Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



t 



W-TfTFTTy - 



J-t : 4* 

IRADCUFFE COLLEGE LIBRARY) 

WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

1960 




NEW SYSTEM 

I T 

OF ' ' ( 

DOME STIC COOKERY, 

• roBttto uMtr 

PBINCIPLBS OP ECONOMY: 

IK JB11TM TD THB 

USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES 

THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES. 



NEW-TORK.- 
it n. k'dcskdt k n. d. jiu». 



John Forbe; prittftr. 
1614. 



-"■2- 









*VV* «* 



District of Nem-Yvrk, ss. 
Be it Remembered, that on the seventeenth day 
of February, in the thirty-eighth year of the 
independence of the United States of America* 
(l. s.) Robert M'Dermut and Daniel D. Arden of 
the said district, have deposited in this office 
the title of a book, the right whereof they claim 
as proprietors, in the words following, to wit : 

"A New System of Domestic Cookery; formed 
upon Principles of Economy, and adapted to the Use 
of Private Families throughout the United States. 6y 
a Lady. 

In conformity to the act of the Congress of the Uni- 
ted States, entitled "An Act for the Encouragement of 
Learning, by securing the copies of Maps, Charts, and 
Books to the authors and proprietors of such copies, 
during the time therein mentioned." And also to an 
Act, entitled " An Act, supplementary to an Act, en- 
titled an Act for the encouragement of Learning, by 
securing the copies of Maps, Charts, and Books to the 
authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times 
therein mentioned, and extending the benefits thereof 
to the arts of designing, engraving and etching histori- 
cal and other prints." 

THERON RUDD, 
Cler£ of .the District of New-York. 

6 4/, 5^ 



R c itf 



• » -, 



JKISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS 

FOR THE USE OF 

THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. 



-I HOSE deserve the greatest praise, who best ac* 
quit themselves of the duties which their stations re- 
quire. Indeed, this line of conduct is not a matter of 
choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dig- 
nity of our character as rational beings. 

In the variety of female acquirements, though uomee* 
tic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they for- 
mely did, yet, when neglected, they produce much hu- 
man misery. There was a time when ladies knew no- 
thing beyond their own family concerns; but in thejpre* 
sent day there are many who know nothing about them. 
Each of these extremes should be avoided : but is there 
no way to unite, in the female character, cultivation of 
talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still, 
great numbers in every situation, whose example' proves 
that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies, 
in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine 
the accounts of their house-steward ; and, by overlook- 
ing and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of* 
their husband's income which falls under their own in 
spection, avoid the inconveniencies of embarrassed cir- 
cumstances. How much more accessary, then is domes* 
tic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on 
their attention considerations of the strictest economy ! 
There ought to be a material difference in the degree of 
care which a person of a large and independent estate 
bestows on money-concerns, and that of a person in con* 
fined circumstances : yet both may very commend ably 
employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this 
subject The custom of the times tends to prevent or to 
abolish the distinction of ranks : and the education given 



• » 

11 



to young people, is nearly the same io all : but though 
the leisure of the fashionable may be devoted to differ- 
ent accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle 
line, if less ornamental, would better secure their own 
happiness and that of others connected with them. We 
sometimes bring up children in a manner calculated ra- 
ther to fit them for the station we wish, than that which 
it is likely they will actually possess : and it is in all 
cases worth the while of parents to consider whether the 
expectations or hope of raising their offspring above 
their own sitnation be well-founded. 

The cultivation of the understanding and disposition* 
however, is not here alluded to ; for a judicious improve- 
ment of both, united to firm and early-taught religious 
principles, would enable the happy possessor of these 
advantages to act well on all occasions ; nor would 
young ladies find domestic knowledge a burthen, or in- 
consistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it 
were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is 
30 pleasing, If employment be tiresome to a healthy 
child the fault must be traced to habits which* from 
nwny causes, are not at present favourable to the fu- 
ture conduct of women. It frequently happens, that 
before impressions of duty are made on the mind, or- 
namental education commences; and it ever after takes 
the lead ; thus, what should be only the embellishment 
becomes the main business of life. There is no oppor- 
tunity of attaining a knowledge of family management 
at school; and during vacations, all subjects that 
might interfere with amusements are avoided. 

When a girl whose family moves in the higher circles 
of life, returns to reside at her father's house after com- 
pleting her education, her introduction to the gay world, 
and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at 
once that she was born to be the ornament of a fashion- 
able circle, rather than to stoop (as she would con- 
ceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, 
though by that means she might in various ways aug- 
ment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On 
the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and es^ 



•_>Mi.^h9 



la 

pecially in the lower orders of middling life, are almost 
always anxious to give their children such advantages 
of education as themselves did not possess. Whether 
their indulgence be productive of the happiness so 
kindly aimed at, must be judged by the effects, which 
are not very favourable, if what has been taught has 
not produced humility in. herself, and increased grati- 
tude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a 
young woman brought to relish home society, and the 
calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she en- 
tered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presented by 
theatres and other dissipations, it is probable she would 
soon mate a comparison much in favour of the former, 
espesially if restraint did not give to the latter addition- 
al relish. 

If we carry on our observations to married life, we 
shall find a life of employment to be the source of un- 
numbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and ear- 
ly instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in 
vthe ways of piety and usefulness : — to preside over the 
family, and regulate the income allotted to its mainte- 
nance : to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fa- 
tigued by intercourse with a jarring world : to be his en- 
lightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart ; 
these, these are woman's duties ! and delightful ones they 
are, if haply she be married to a man whose soul can du- 
ly estimate .her worth, and who will bring his share to 
the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman one 
may truly say, " Happy the man who can call her his 
wife., Blessed ate the children who call her mother.^ 

Whe^n we thus observe her, exercising her activity 
and best abilities in appropriate cares, and increasing 
excellence are we not ready to say, she is the agent for 
good of that benevolent Being, who placed her on earth 
to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents 
committed to her charge ? 

When it is thus evident that the high intellectual at* 
tainments may find exercise in the multifarious occupa-t 
tions of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and \h% 
mistress of the house, can any one urge that the-£& 

A3 



male mind is contracted by domestic employ ? It is 
however a great comfort that the duties of life are with- 
in the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose 
chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to ac- 
quit herself well. United with, and perhaps crown- 
ing all the virtues of the female character, is that 
well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally 
bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, know- 
ing them to be often scarcely less essential than the 
.greater. 

Hence the direction of a tabic is no inconsiderable 
branch of a lady's concern, a& it involves judgment 
in expenditure; respectability of appearance; and the 
comfort of her husband and those who partake their 
hospitality. 

The mode of covering the table differs in taste. Ifr 
is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, tlie 
dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the. whole, 
' which gives respectability to her who presides. Too 
much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncom- 
mon : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort 
-of poverty or penurxousness to be genteel : and the 
former, if constantly given, may endanger the circum- 
stances of those who are not affluent. 

Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respec- 
tability of a man is more immediately felt, than the style 
of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a 
visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the 
meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the enter- 
tainments of the higher classes, but if two^or three dishes 
are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen 
clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is 
necessary be atliand, the expectation of the husband 
and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of 
domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. 
The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In 
all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less 
suited to the station, than to the fortune of the entertain- 
er, and to the number and rank of those invited. 

The manner of carving is not only a very necessary 



branch of information, t (Tenable a lady to do the honours 
of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the 
consumption of a family ; and though in large parties 
she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge ap- 
parently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel 
the deficiency ; and should not fail to acquaint herself 
-with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident 
every day. 

Some people haggle meat so much, as not to be able 
to help half-a-dozen persons decently from a large 
tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with 
the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the 
daughters of the family were to take the head of the 
table under the direction of their mother, they would 
fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as 
an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits 
them for their own future houses. Practice only can 
make good carvers ; but some principal directions are 
hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. 

The mistress of a family should always remember 
that the welfare and good management of the house de- 
pend n the eye of the superior ; and consequently that 
nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste may 
be avoided ; and this attention is of more importance 
now that the priceof every necessary of life is increased 
to an enormous degree. 

If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to 
think of family management, let her not upon that ac- 
count fear that she cannot attain it ; she may consult 
others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself 
with the necessary quantities of the several articles of 
family expenditure, in proportion to the number it con- 
tests of, the proper prices to pay, &c. &c. 

A minute account of the anuual income, and the times 
of payment, should be taken in writing ; likewise an es- 
timate of the supposed amount of each article of expense ; 
and those who are early accustomed to calculations ou 
domestic articles, will acquire so accurate a knowledge 
of what their establishment requires, as will give them 
the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, 
without acquiring the character of meanness. 



I* 

' Perhaps few branches of female education are so use*- 
fill, as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be 
regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to 
be entered ; and if balanced every week and month, &c. 
the income and outgoings will be ascertained with faci- 
lity, and their proportions to each other be duly observ- 
ed. Some people fix on stated sums to be appropriated 
to each different article, and keep the money in separate 
purses; as house, clothes, pocket, education of children, 
&c. Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain 
mode should be adopted and strictly adhered to. Many- 
women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their 
husband's income ; and others are only made acquainted 
with it, when some speculative project, or profitable 
transaction, leads them to make a false estimate of what 
can be afforded ; and it too often happens that both par- 
ties, far from consulting each other, squander money in 
ways that they would even wish to forget r whereas 
marriage should be a state of mutual and perfect confi- 
dence, and similarity of pursuits, which would secure 
that happiness it was intended to bestow. 
- There are so many valuable women who excel as 
wives, that it is a fair inference there would be few ex- 
travagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands 
on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both par- 
ties. Many families have been reduced to poverty by 
the want of openness in the man' on the subject of his 
affairs; and though on these occasions the women were 
blamed, it has afterwards appeared, that they never 
were allowed a voice of inquiry, or suffered to reason 
upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. 

Many families have owed their prosperity full as 
much to the propriety of female management as to the 
knowledge and activity of the father. 

The lady of a general officer observed to her cook, 
that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some 
excuse was offered; — to which she replied : — ; * Such is 
the sum I have allotted to house-keeping : — should it be 
exceeded one week, the next must repay it. The gen* 



r 



Vll 



era! will have no public day this week." The fault 
was* never repeated. 

Ready money should be paid for all such things as 
come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check 
is necessary. The best places for purchasing should 
be attended to. Those who pay best are usually best 
served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to 
new shops, but it is safest to deal with pedple of esta- 
blished credit, who do not dispose of goods by undersel- 
ling. 

To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them 
greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid, and in 
long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Per- 
baps the irregularity and failure of payment, may have 
ipuch evil influence on the price of various articles, and 
may contribute to the destruction of many families, from 
tjje highest to the lowest. 

Tims regularly conducted, the exact state of money 
affairs will be known with ease : for k is delay of pay- 
ment that occasions confusion. A common-place book 
should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints 
of useful knowledge, and other observations as are given 
by sensible experienced people. Want of attention to 
what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be 
worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance 
prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not 
backward in frivolous ones. 

It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of 
the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, 
and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing 
them. She should also be acquainted with the compa- 
rative prices of provisions, in order that she may be 
able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when 
they will answer as well for others of the same kind, but 
which are more costly. A false notion of economy 
leads many to purchase as bargains, what is not wanted, 
and sometimes neve r is used. Were this error avoided, 
more money, would remain for other purposes. It. is 
not unusual among dealers to put off a larger quantity 
of goods, by assurances that they are advancing in pi-ice ; 



and many who supply fancy articles are so successful 
in persuasion, that purchasers not unfrequently go far 
beyond their original intention, even" to their own fu- 
ture disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and 
being in constant consumption, should be laid in accord- 
ingly i such as coffee, tea, sugar, soap, and candles. Of 
these more hereafter. 

To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted 5 for 
people ought to form their conduct on their circum- 
stances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement 
according to them, will be found equally advantageous 
to all. The minutiae of management must be regulated 
by every one's fortune and situation ; some ladies, 
charge themselves with giving gut, once in a month, to 
a superintending servant, such quantities of houseliold 
articles, as by observation and calculation they know to 
be sufficient, reserving for their own key the large stock 
of things usually laid in for very large families in the 
country. Should there be several more -visitors thai* 
usual, they can easily account for increase of consump- 
tion, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will 
be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they ara 
not interested in the ignorance of their employers ; and 
if they are, their services will not compensate for want 
•f honesty. 

When young ladies marry, they frequently continue 
their own maid in the capacity of house-keeper; who, 
as they may be more attached to their interest than 
strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the 
economical observations in this work will be as useful 
as the cookery 5 and it is recommendable in them to be 
strictly observant of both, which in the course of a year 
or two, will make them familiar in the practice. 

It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of 
the good things that God has given for our use* not abuse, 
the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter 
be called to a strict account. 

Some part of every person's fortune should be devo* 
ted tocharity ; by which " a pious woman will build up 
lusx house before God, while she that is foolish (£. f . J- 



* ■ 



tends nothing to thcLord), pulls it clown with her 
hands." No one can complain of the number, or of the 
want of gifts to. the poor in this country : — but tbere is 
a mode of relief which would add greatly to their com- 
fort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and 
such materials as are often thrown away, the expense 
would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some 
hints for preparing the above are given. 

By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is 
more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given 
soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute 
them ; and servants, by doing their work with ease, will 
be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. 

It is worthy of notice that the general expense will 
be reduced, and much time saved, if every thing be kept 
in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mend- 
ed, when the nature of the accident will allow as soon 
as broken. 

If the economy of time was duly considered, the use* 
ful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, 
and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, 
a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue ; 
and it would be a most pleasant retrospect at 4he end 
of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the valu- 
able acquirements made, and the good actions perform- 
ed by an active woman. 

If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a 
book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who. 
do not recollect that the regularity and good manage- 
ment of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded by 
those who are to execute orders. It behoves every per- 
son to be extremely careful whom he takes into his ser- 
vice ; to be very minute in investigating the character, 
and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one 
to others. Were this attended to, many bad people 
would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing 
the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted 
that the robbery, or waste, which is but a milder epithet 
for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the 
charge of that master or mistress! who knowing, or ha- 



ving well-founded suspicions of such faults, is prevailed 
upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him into another 
place. There are, however, some who are unfortunate- 
ly capricious, and often refuse to give a character be- 
cause they are displeased that a servant leaves their 
service : but this is unpardonable, and an absolute rob- 
bery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on 
their fair name for employment To refuse countenance 
to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are ac- 
tions due to society at large; and such as are honest, 
frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally 
rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire 
servants with zeal to acquit themselves. 

It may be proper to observe that a retributive justice 
usually marks persons in that station sooner or latter, 
even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servi- 
tude, are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on 
which their own future welfare so essentially depends. 
Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come home 
when they have children of their own ; and sometimes 
much sooner. They will see their own folly and wick- 
edness perpetuated in their offspring,, whom they must 
not expect to be better than the example and instruction 
given by themselves. 

It was the observation of a sensible and experienced 
woman, that she could always read the fate of her ser- 
vants who married ; those who had been faithful and 
industrious in her service, continued their good habits 
in their own families, and became respectable members 
of the community : — those who were the contrary, 
never were successful, and not unfrequently were re- 
duced to the parish. 

A proper quantity of household articles should be 
always ready, and more bought in before the others be 
consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the 
country. 

A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even 
if the money be paid at the time of purchase : and, to 
avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these 
when brought home. 



Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one's 
honesty, and perhaps mistakes havef been unintentional : 
yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugars, &c. when brought 
in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should 
be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook 
to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly 
bill shall be delivered. 

Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there 
is company, if servants are required to prepare the 
table and sideboard in similar order daily. 

All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness ; 
sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants wash- 
ed, picked, and perfectly dry ; spices pounded, and kept 
in very small b- ttles closely corked ; not more than 
will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded 
at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled 
whole in gravies, &c. 

Where noonings or suppers are served (and in every 
house some preparation is necessary for accidental vi- 
sitors), care should be taken to have such things in 
readiness as are proper for either, a list of several will 
be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and 
if duly managed will be attended with little expense 
and much convenience. 

A ticket should be exchanged for every loaf of bread* 
which when returned will show the number to be paid 
for ; as tallies may be altered unless one is kept by 
each party. 

Those who are served with brewer's beer, or any 
other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, 
should keep a book for entering the dates ; which will 
not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will show the 
^whole year's comsumption at one view. 

An inventory of furniture, linen, and china should be 
k^ept and the things examined by it twice a-year, or oft- 
ener, if there be a change of servants ^ into each of whose 
care the articles used by him or her, should be entrust- 
ed, with a list as is done with plate. Tickets of parch- 
ment with the family name, numbered, and specifying 
what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather- 

B 






xii 

bed, bolster, pillow and blanket. Knives,, forks, and 
house-cloths, are often deficient : these accidents might 
be obviated, if an article at the head of every list re- 
quired the former should be produced whole or broken, 
and the marked part of the linen, though all the others 
should be worn out. Those who wish for trifle dishes 
butter-stands, &c. at a lower charge than cut glass, may 
buy them made in moulds, of which there is a great va- 
riety that look extremely well, if not placed near the 
more beautiful articles. 

The price of starch depends upon that of flour; the 
best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years ; 
therefore when bread is cheap it may, be bought to ad- 
vantage, and covered close. 

Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all 
families, the purchase demands particular attention. The 
cheapest does not go so far as that more refined ,* and 
there is difference even in the degree of pweetness. The 
white should be chosen that i9 close, heavy, and shining. 
The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and 
it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars 
Txrc finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently 
unfit for wines and sv« eaimcats, but do well for common 
purposes, if good of ther- hind. To prepare white su- 
gar, pounded, rolling ii with a bottle, and sifting, wastes 
less than a mortar. 

Candles made in cool weather are best; and when 
their price and that of soup, which rise and fall toge- 
ther, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay 
in the stock of both. This information the chandler can 
always give : they are better for keeping eight or ten 
months, and will not injure for two years, if properly 
placed in the cool : and there are few articles that bet- 
ter deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity 
of, according to the size of the family. 

Paper by keeping, improves in quality : and if 
bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will 
be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. The 
surprising increase of the price of this article may be 
accounted for by the increased consumption, and the 



xm 

want of rags ; of the latter there is a great scarcity, 
which might be obviated if an order were given to a ser- 
vant iu every family to keep a bag to receive all the 
waste bits from cuttings-out, &c. 

Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best 
means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would 
maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of 
the house much chagrin by their irregularity 5 and many 
families, from a want of method, have the appearance of 
chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this* 
the following hints may be useful as well as econo- 
mical : — 

Every article should be kept in that place best suited 
to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz, 
^ Vegetables will keep best on a stone Goor if the air be 
excluded. — Meat in a cold dry place. — Sugar and sweet 
meats require a dry place J so does salt. — Candles cold, 
but not damp. — Dried meats, hams, &c. the same. All. 
sorts of seeds for puddings, rice, &c. should be close 
covered to preserve from insects ; but that will not pre- 
vent it, if long kept 

Bread is in cities so heavy an article of expense, that 
all waste should be guarded against ; and having it cut 
in the room will tend much to prevent it It should 
not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers, 
keep, it best 

Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent 
a musty taste. v 

Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. 

Basil, savoury, or knotted majoram, or thyme, to be 
used when herbs are ordered ; but with discretion, as 
they are very pungent. 

The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to 
fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ;> 
and they should be shaken occasionally. When soil- 
ed, they should be washed, not scoured. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of 
soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of 
which pour into the tubs and boiler ; and when the la- 
ther becomes weak, add more. Soft eoap is, if proper- 



9 



Jy used, a saving of near half in quantity; which re- 
duces the price of washing considerably. 

Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm 
water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the 
operation with less friction. 

Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces 
that will make a long square when first brought in, and 
kept out of the air two or three weeks ; for if it dry quick 
it will crack, and when, wet, break. Put it on a shelf, 
leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. 
Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. 

Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should 
be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be 
halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the 
outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, 
the first way is best When these fruits are cheap, a 
proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above 
directed, especially by those who live in the country, 
where they cannot always be had 5 and they are perpetu- 
ally wanted in cookery. 

When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other pur* 
poses, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c. ta em- 
ploy the yolks also. Should you not want them for 
several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put 
them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and use- 
less. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites 
made cakes and pudding heavy ; on the contrary if beat-* 
en long and separately, they contribute greatly to give 
lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty 
dish beaten with fruit to set in cream, &c. 

If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook 
should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be 
nibbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least 
defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy &c. 
in them or any metal utensil ; stone and earthen vessels 
should be provided for those purposes, as likewise 
plenty of common dishes, that the table set may not be 
used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels if kept damp, soon 
rust, which causes holes, Fenders and tin linings of flow- 
er-pots, &c. should be painted every year or two. 



Vegetables Boon sour, and corrode metals and glazed 
red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some 
years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasion- 
ed by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she had 
kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly 
tinned. 

Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing be- 
iug of lead or arsenic. 

To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold wa- 
ter, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then 
place it in the sun ; renew the process once or twice. 

The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar,, 
is in a stone jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the 
vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water-bath. 

If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c. be suffer- 
ed to boil over the strength is lost 

The cook should be encouraged to be careful of 
wood, coals and cinders : for the latter there is a new 
contrivance to sift, without dispersing the dustof the ash- 
es, by means of a covered tin bucket. 

The cook should be charged to take care of jellybaga, 
tapes for the collared things, &c. which if not perfectly- 
scalded and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when 
next used. 

Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will cause 
it to crack. 

In the following and indeed all other receipts, though 
the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, 
yet much must be left to the discretion of the person 
who uses them. The different tastes of people require 
more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic butter* 
&c. which can never be ordered by general rules ; and 
if the cook has not a pood taste, and attention to that of 
her employers, not all the ingredients which nature and 
art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. 
The proper article should be at hand, and she must pro-* 
portion them until the true zest be obtained, and a variety 
of flavour, be given to the different dishes served at the 
same time. 

Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance 
in this little work ; and where they are not strictly iq^ 

B & 



xvi 

by suet or bacou being directed into stuffings, the cook 
must use butter instead ; and where meat gravies (or 
stock as fhey arc called) are ordered those made offish 
must be adopted. 



mm 



DIRECTIONS FOB CARVING. 

The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of 
a middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required 
than address, in the manner of using it : and to facilitate 
this, the cook should give orders to the butcher to di- 
vide the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mut- 
ton, lamb, and veal (such as neck, breast, and loin) ; 
which may then be easily cut into thin slices attached 
to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat be- 
longing to each bone should be too thick, a small slice 
-may be taken off between every two bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg, or saddle 
of mutton and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, neat- 
ly cut and smooth ; observing to let the knife pass down 
to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. 

The dish should not be too far off the carver; as it 
gives an awkward appearance, and makes the task more 
difficult Attention is to be paid to help every one to a 
part of such articles as are considered the best. 

Jn helping fish, take care not to break the flakes ; 
which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and con- 
tribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish- 
knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this account. 
Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. 

The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, 
sounds of cod, and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed 
niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. 

In cutting up any wild fowl, duck, goose, or turkeys 
for a. large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion 
to pinion, without making wings, there will be more 
prime pieces. 

A Cod's Head. — Fish in general requires very little 
ctrvkg, the fleshy parte being those principally esteem- 



XTii 

ed. A cod's head and shoulders, when in season, and 
properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish* 
When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the 
parts about the back-bone and the shoulders are the most 
firm and the best Take off a piece quite down to the 
bone, in the direction a, 6, c, d b putting in the spoon at 
a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, 
which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the 
meat of which is thin, and a little darker-coloured than 
the body of the fish itself; this may be got by pas- 
sing a knife or spoon underneath, in the direction d y f 
About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal 
of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw- 
bones, and the, firm parts within the head. Some arc 
fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise 
may be got by putting a spoon into the mouth* 

Edge-bone of Beef. — Cut off a slice an inch thick all 
the length from a to 6, in the figure opposite the last page, 
and then help. The soft fat winch resembles marrow 
lies at the back of the bone, below c ; the firm fat must be 
cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat, d. It is 
proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The 
skewer that keeps the meat properly together when boil- 
ing, is here showo at a. This should be drawn out be- 
fore it is served up ; • or, if it is necessary to leave the 
skewer in, put a silver one. 

Sirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, or 
by cutting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether- 
the outside or the inside is preferred. For the outside 
the slice should be cut down to the bones ; and the same 
with every following helping. Slice; the inside, likewise, 
and give with each piece some of the soft fat. 

The inside done as follows eats excellently : Have 
ready some shalot-vinegar boiling hot : mince the meat 
large, and a good deal of fat : sprinkle it with salt, and 
pour the shalot-vinegar, and the gravy on it. Help with; 
a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. 

Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the^aroe way as 
fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even 
*liover. When helping the fat, observe not to hack it» 



XTiii 

but cut k smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the 
beef bcfor« you begin to bel t J, as directed above for the 
edge-boiie. 

Fillet of Veal. — Io an ox this part Is round of beef. 
Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help 
the uext slice. The bone is taken out, and the meat tied 
close, before dressing; which makes the fillet very solid. 
It should be cut thin, and very smooth. — A stuffing is 
put into the flap, which completely covers it; you must 
cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of 
fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with 
paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappoint- 
ment of the carver. 

Breast of Veal. — One part (which is called the bris- 
ket) is thickest, and has gristles ; put your knife about 
four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, 
which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which 
is chosen, and help accordingly. 

Coifs Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if pro* 
perly managed. Cut slices from a to ft, in ihe figure op- 
posite, letting the knife go close to the bone* 
In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat 
sweetbread, which you should help a slice of from c to 
d with the other part. Many like the eye, which you 
must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide 
in two. If the jaw-bone be taken of£ there will be 
found spme fine lean. Under the head is the palate, 
which is reckoned a nicety; the lady of the house should 
be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that 
she may distribute, them among her guests. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — This is a very good joint, and 
by many preferred to the leg ; it being very full of gravy 
if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The 
figure represent? it as laid in the dish with its back up- 
permost. When it is first cut it should be in the hollow 
part of it, in the direction of a, 6, and the knife should 
be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat 
lies on the outer edge, and is to be cut out in thin slice* 
in the direction e. If many are at table, and the hollow 
part cut in the line a, b % is eaten, some very good and 



XIX 

delicate slices may be cut out ou each side the ridge of 
the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between 
these two dotted lines, is that in the direction of which 
the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be 
cut across. 

Leg of Mutton — A leg. of wether mutton (which is 
the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of 
fat at the edge of the broadest part, as at «. The best 
part is in the midway at 6, between the knuckle and 
further end Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep 
slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some 
from the side of the broad end in slices from e to/. T his part 
ismost juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, which in fine 
mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very 
fine slices on the back of the leg : turn it up, and cut the 
broad end ; not in the direction you did the other side, 
but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of 
the shank with your left-hand, and cut down to the thigh- 
bone at d; then pass the knife under the cramp-bon$ 
in the direction d, g. 

Afore Quarter of Lamb. — Separate the shoulder from 
the scoven (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the 
knife under in the direction of a, 6, c, a\ in the figure op- 
posite the last page ; keeping it towards you horizontal- 
ly, to prevent cutting the meat too much ofF the bones. 
If grass lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into an- 
other dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange 
(or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt 
and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the 
_ ribs in : the line e, c ; and help either from that, or from 
the ribs, as may be chosen. 

Haunch of Venison. — Cut down to the bone in the line 
a, ft, c, in the figure opposite the next page, to let out 
the gravy : then turn the broad end of the haunch to- 
ward you, put in the knife at ft, and cut as deep as you 
can to the end of the haunch d; then help in thin slices, 
observing to give some fat to each person. There is 
more fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of 
c and d than on the other : and those who help must take 
care to proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according t© 
the number of the company. 



XX 



Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut 
so as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helped 
at table in the same manner. 

Saddle of Mutton. — Cut long thin -slices from the tail 
to the end, beginning close to the back-bone. If a 
large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from 
the sides. 

Ham may be cut three ways ; the common method is 
to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to 6, from 
the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime 
at first ; which is likewise accomplished by cutting a 
small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a 
sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thin cir- 
cles : this preserves the gravy, and keeps the meat moist* 

The last and most saving way is, to bigin at the hock 
end (which many are luostfond of),and proceed onwards. 

Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the 
under side, first taking off a thick slice* 

Sucking Pig. — Thecook usually divides the body be- 
fore it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the 
jaws and ears. 

The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the car- 
case on one side, and then the leg according to the direc- 
tion given by the dotted lioe a, b, c. The ribs are then to 
be divideo^into about two helpings, and an ear or jaw pre- 
sented with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may 
either be divided into two each,or pieces may be cut from 
them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part ; but some 
people prefer the neck-end, between the shoulders. 

Goose. — Cut oft" the apron in the circular line a t 5, e; 
in the figure opposite the last page ; and pour into the bo- 
dy a glass of port wine, and a large tea-spoonful of mus- 
tard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck-end 
of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in 
long slices from one wing to another; but only remove 
them as you help each person, unless the company is so 
large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives 
more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the 
leg, by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, 
pressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at <k 



**FT 



xxi 



lurn the leg back, and if a young bird, it will easily se- 
parate. To take off the wing, put, your fork into the , 
small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body ; 
then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it 
down in the direction d, e. Nothing but practice will 
enable people to hit the joint exactly af the first trial. 
When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the 
other ; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole 
goose, unless the company be very large. There are two 
side bones by the wing, which may be cut off; as likewise 
the back and lower side-bones : but the best pieces are 
the breast and the thighs after being divided from the 
drum-sticks. 

Hdre 9 or Rabbit — The best wa^ of cutting it up is, to 
put the point of the knife under the shoulder at «, in the 
figure opposite the next page, and so cut all the way 
down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the 
line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the 
whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the 
back into four, which with the legs is the part most 
esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular 
Ane, as, c, J, a : lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you 
cut them ; and then help the company, giving some pud- 
ding and gravy to every person. This way can only 
be practised when the hare is young : if old, don't di- 
vide it down, which will require a strong arm : but put 
the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little 
turn inwards at the joint ; which you must endeavour 
to hit, and not to break by force. When both legi are 
taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back ; 
then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, 
and take off the shoulders, which are by many prefer- 
red, and are called the sportsman's pieces. When every 
one is helped, cut off the head ; put your knife between 
the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will 
enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate ; then put 
the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head 
into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to 
ihose who like them. 

A Fowl. — A boilerf fowl's legs are bent inwards and 
tucked into the belly ; but before it is served, the skew- 



XX11 

ers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate* 
. aad place the joints, as cut off; on the dish. Take the 
wing off in the direction of a to A, in the annexed en- 
graving, only dividing the joint with your knife ; and 
- then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the 
wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in 
a more complete form than if cut Slip the knife be- 
tween the leg and body, and cut to the bone ; then with 
the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if 
the bird is not old. When the four quarters are thus 
removed, take off the merry thought. from a, and the 
neck-bones; these last by putting in the knife at c, and 
pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the 
line c, b : then lift it up, and break it off from the part 
that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide 
the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the ten- 
der ribs cjose to the breast, quite down to the tail. Then 
lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone 
half-way from the neck to the rump, and on raising the 
lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump 
from you, and very neatly take off the two sidesmen, 
and the whole will be done. As each part is taken oft, 
it should be turned neatly on the dish : and care should 
be taken that what is left goes properly from table. 
The breast and wings are looked upon as the best parts ; 
but the legs are most juicy, in young fowls. After all, 
more advantage will be gained by observing those who 
carve well, and a little practice, than by any written 
directions whatever. 

A Pheasant. — The bird in the annexed engraving is as 
trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wings. 
When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, 
the following is the way to carve it : 
Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; slice it down 
in the line a, b ; take off the leg on one side in the dot- 
ted line b, </; then cut off the wing on the same side in 
the line c 9 d. Separate the leg and wing on the dther 
side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided 
before. Be careful how you take off the wings; for if 
you should cut too near the neck, as at g, you will hit 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 





~ 



y- 






j 



-* TT? T»3 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Shoulder of Mutton. 



Leg of Mutton. 



Quarter of Lamb. 



Plate 2. 






*<r -- ™-«- - -v*~t? , 



— f rr-*v#^pr ^?" y — 1 



^TB^FW*" 



DOMSSTIC COOKERY. 



Piatt 3. 



Batmch of Vernon* 




JEhufi* 




Ptg. 




Goose* 




TP=T= 



t 






.J 



I 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Plate 4. 



Bare, 




Boast Fowl. 




Boiled Fqi»1 




Wing. Neck-Boiie. Leg. 






i 



DQHKnievtoEl&r. 

riuus. 







Yf ^ M 



4 . 



J 



DOMIITIC COOKHtT. 




J 



xxifi 



on the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separa- 
ted. Cut off the merrythought in the line/,£*, bj passing 
the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts - 
as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merry thought, are 
the most esteemed ; but the leg has a higher flavour. 

The Partridge and Quail are here represented as jus£ 
taken from the spit; but before it is served up the skew- 
ers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same as a fowl,. 
The wings must be taken off in the line a, 6, and a merry- 
thought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are 
the wings, breast and merrythought; but the bird being 
small the two latter are not oftenr divided. The wing fe 
considered as the best, and the tip of it reckoned the 
most delicate morsel of the whole. 

Pigeons. — Cut them in half, either from top to bottom^ 
or across. The low part is generally, thought the best; 
but the fairest way is to cut from the neck to a, figure 
7, rather than from c to 6, by a, which is the most fashr 
ionable. The figure represents the back of the pigeon; 
and the direction of the knife is in the line c 9 b 9 by a, ifi 
-done the last way. 






DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



PART L 



FISH. * 

To choose Fish 

8 KEEPS HEAD, is generally considered as the finest 
fish brought to market in the U. S. It should be 
firm and thick, and the eyes bright. They are in season 
all through the summer. 

Rock Fish, called Streaked Bass, is a very delicate and 
fine flavoured fish, and by some esteemed more highly 
than the Sheeps Head. It should be cooked when per- 
fectly fresh as it soon spoils. Is in the greatest perfection 
from July until October. 

Sea Bass, Black Fish, and Blue Ftsh,jure very excellent 
in their kinds, and are always to be had alive in every sea- 
port from Portland to Philadelphia, and occasionally far- 
ther south. 

Turbot, if good, should be thick, and the belly of a yel- 
lowish white ; if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad, 
They are in season the greatest part of the summer. 

Salmon. — If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills par- 
ticularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When 
just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which 
gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and 
the fish is more rich. 

Cod. — The gills should be very red : the fish should be 
very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the 
eyes fresh. "When flabby they are not good. They are 
in season from the beginning of December till the end of 
April. 

Shad. — If good, they are white and thick. If too fresh 
they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days withj- 
out salting. 

Herrings. — If good, their gills are of a fine red and the 
eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must b£ 
stiff and firm. 

. Soles. — If good, they are thick, and the belly is of ^ 
cream-colour ; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby they are 



20 BOMESTIC COOXS&K. 

not fresh. They are fn the market almost the whole yeaj 
but are iu the highest perfection about mid-summer. 

Whitings, called Weak Fish* — The firmness of the body 
and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings. 

Mackarel. — Choose as whitings. Their season is May, 
June, and July. They are so tender a fish that they 
carry and keep worse than any other. 

Pike. — For freshness observe the above marks. The 
best are taken in rivet's* they are a very dry fish, audi 
are much indebted to staffing and sauce. 

Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore 
get wasted ; it is best to kilt them as soon as caught, to 
prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them, 
as other fish. 

Trvut. Tbey are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fidfe* 
and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught— 
When they are to be bought, examine whether the gill* 
are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the bodj 
stiff. 

Perch. — Take the general rules given to distinguish 
ithe freshness of other fish. 

Mtdkts. — The sea are preferred to the river mullets^ 
and the red to the grey. They should be very firm. 

Gnrfgeme. — They are chosen by the same rules a* 
ptiier fish. They are taken in running streams $ come 
in afeout midsummer, and are to be bad for five or six 
ffion&B. 

Eels. — There is a greater difference in the goodness of 
eels than of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so called 
from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in fresk 
water. 

Lobsters. — If they have not been long taken, the claws 
will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the 
eyes and press them. Tlie heaviest are the best The 
gock-lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail 
and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard ; 
but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The 
male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, 
the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deep- 
er red. 

Crabs.* — The heaviest are best, and Hhose of a middling 
ajfee are «wegt**t, W light tfeey are watery : when in 



w*m M *^ ' — c-^-^-t ~___— 



perfection the joints of the legs are stiffj and the body hag 
a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose 
when stale. 

Pranms and Shrimps. — When fresh they have a sweet 
flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright— 
Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the 
same rules. 

Oysters. — There are several kinds. The native are 
finest, being white and fat ; but others may be made to 
possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feed^ 
ing. When alive and strong the shell is close. They 
should be eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming 
poor otherwise. The rock-oyster is largest, but usually 
has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. 

Flounders.— -They should be thick, firm, and have 
their eyes bright. 

The abundance and variety of fishes daily brought 
to market in every seaport town in the United 
States, cannot be equalled in any other part of the 
world. And the general practice of exhibiting them for 
sale jumping alive, while it precludes the possibility of de- 
ception, renders unnecessary any farther directions for 
avoiding imposition. Indeed, upon the whole of this chapi- 
ter, the editor rather intends to retrench than to enlarge ; 
and simply for this reason, — that to go into the minutiae of 
dressing and serving the infinite varieties which are pro- 
duced here, would of itself occupy a larger book than this 
is intended to be. She therefore contents herself with the 
small merit, of making or leaving this work more copious 
upon this subject than any other in general use. 
Observations on Dressing' Fish. 

When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little 
vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness ; but 
eod, shad, bass, whiting, and haddock, are far better if a 
little salted, and kept a day : and if not very hot weather 
they will be good two days. 

Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by taking, 
more at a time than they want for one day, often get it 
theap : and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by 
being sprinkled wit! 1 salt and hung up, or by being fried 
•will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bouj^ 
whh advantage. C2 



9 3MXBITJC COOKKRT. 

Fresh-water fish has efken a modify smell and taste, to 
(ake off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is 
nicely cleaned $ or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the 
tSBiae; then dry and dress it 

The fidh must be put into the water while cofcd, and met 
to do very gentry, or the outside will break, before the inner 
part is done. 

Small fish nicely fried, covered with eggs asd crumtw, 
make a dish far more elegant than if served plain. Great 
attention should be paid to garnidh fish : use plenty «f 
horse-radish, pansier, and lemon. 

When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more 
attended to thai* almost any other dish. The river aed 
roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see 
mem, and help a part to every one. 

If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a 
f ice^aoft cloth after it is well cleaned and washed. — When 
perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle 
The finest crumbs of bread over it - y if done a second time 
with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better I 
then having a thick-bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with 
/* large quantity of lard or dripping boiling-hot, plunge the 
fish into it, and let it fry middtingty quick, till the colour 
is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is 
done enough before it has obtained^ proper degree of 
O Colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the 
five; carefully take it up, and either place it on a large 
sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose on- 
ly, or on the under side of a dish to drain ; and if wanted 
very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the 
fish, which should look a beautifiil colour, and all the 
crumbs appear distinct ; the fish being free from all grease. 
The same dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second 
foe. Butter gives a bad colour ; oil fries of the finest 
Colour for those who will allow the expense. 

Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley 
Jtted, which must be thus done * When washed and pick- 
ed, throw it again into dean water; when the lard or 
dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from 
ifche water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and 
njiwt betaken up with a stiee t this may be done after \ 

the ftsli i| feteoV 



J UP U 



If the fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured 
and put on a gridiron that is very clean; which, when 
hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet, to prevent ther 
fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, 
that it may uot taste smoky : and not too near, that it may 
uot be scorched. 

TURBOT. 

To keep Turbot. 
. If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days* 
and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed 
over with-salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. 

To boil Turbot 

The turbot-kettlemuet be of a proper size, and in the 
nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover 
it completely, throw a -handful of sakand a glass of vine- 
gar into it, and let it gradually boil ;' skim it well, aud pre- 
serve the beauty of the colour. 

Serve it garnished with a complete , fringe of curled 
parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. 

The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy but- 
ter, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate ta? 

Teens. 

To 'Boil Skeeps-heaeL 

Set it in cold water, throw in a handful of salt, and boSl 
gradually ; skim it frequently Dish, and throw over ifc 
a rich egg sauce, and serve hot— garnish with curled paras < 
ley and lemon. 

Black-Fish, Rock-Fish, and Sea-Bass. 

Are boiled and served up in the same manner as tfie\ 
fbregoing, v with plenty of sauce in the sauce boat. 

SALMON. 

To Boil Sahnon. 
Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of tfie* 
'water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish" * 
be split If underdone it is very unwholesome. 
Shrimp or anchovy sauce. 

To Broil Salmon. 
- Out slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and 
salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper, well but- 
tered, twis£ the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over* 
* slow Are six or eight minute*. Serve, is the paper wttfc 
a^chovy*6amc€. 



#• 



99 BOME0TIC COOKERY. 

To Pot Salmon, 

Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but don't wash it : 
gait very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained 
from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole 
pepper: put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, 
and bake it ; when well dooe, drain it from the gravy, put 
it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with ciari- 
ied butter. 

In this manner you may do any firm fish. 

To dry Salmon. 

Cut the fiBh down t take out the inside and roe. Rub the 
whole with common salt after scaling it ; let it hang 24 
hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt-petre 
according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, 
and two ounces of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed 
well into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two 
days, then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours 
more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. 
Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place ; keep- 
ing it open with two small sticks. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just 
warmed through ; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; 
•r it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. 
An excellent disk of dried Salmon. 

Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard 
and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, 
and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a teaspoon- 
Ail of flour ; skim it, and stir it till boiling hot ; make a wall 
of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and 
pour the above into it. 

To pickle Salmon. 

Boil as before directed, take the fish out and boil the li- 
quor with cloves, pepper-corns, and salt ; add vinegar, 
when cold, and pour it over the fish. 

Another way. 

After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide 
it into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to 
fill the bottom, ami as much water as will cover it; to 
three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, six 
blades of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of black pep- 
per. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and pu| s 
It on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle. 



»v 



iis*. 31 

.and pour the liquor upon U, aad so on till all is done. Af- 
ter this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vi- 
negar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters 
of an hour. Wheu all is cold, pack the fish in something 
deep, and let there be enough of Fickle to plentifully co- 
ver. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drain- 
ed from jfche fteh, aad occasionally boiled and skimmed. 

Setlmm coliartd. 
Split such a part of the fish as may b&su&cient to make 
a handsome rolV wash *ad wipe it, and having mixed salt, 
white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quan- 
tity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. 
Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water 
and one third vinegar as will cover it, with salt, and 
both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done 
enough. Drain and Boil quick the liquor, and put on 
wheu cold- Serve with fennel. 1 1 is an elegant dish, and 
^extremely good. 

COD. 

Is generally boiled whole ; but a large head and shoul- 
ders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner 
parts being overdone and tasteless before the thick are rea* 
dy. But the whole fish may he purchased at times more 
reasonably ; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up 
will be in high perfection one or two days. Or it may be 
made Salter, and served with egg-sauce potatoes and par- 
snips. 

Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite 
fresh it is watery ; but eats excellently if salted and hung 
up for a day, to give it firmness, then stuffed broiled, or 
boiled. 

x Cod's Head and. shoulders 
Will -eat much 'finer by having a little salt rubbed dow* 
the bone, and along the thick part, even if it be eaten the 
same day. 

Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water whkh will 
completely cover it ; throw a handful of salt into it. Great 
care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck 
of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of 
double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, aad the milt, roe and 
liven 



32' DOMESTIC COOKEBT. 

Serve with plenty of oyster of shrimp-sauce, and 
chovy and butter. 

Crump Cod* 

Boil, broil, or fry. 

Cod Sounds boiled. 

Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and 
clean; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and 
water ; when tender serve them in a napkin, with egg-sauce. 
The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. 

Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens. 
A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely 
and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold 
put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit 
of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; 
spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form 
of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them as you would 
chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin 
oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine 
oyster-sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. 

To broil Cod Sounds* 

Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty 
skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take them out, 
flour, and broil. While this is doing, season a little 
brown gravy with pepper, salt, a teaspoonftil of soy, and a 
little mustard : give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, 
and pour it over the sounds. 

Cod Sounds ragout. 

Prepare as above ; then stew tijem in white gravy sea- 
soned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before 
you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nutmeg, 
and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour. 

Currie of Cod 

Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimp* 
ed or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine 
brown with onions ; and stew it with a good white gravy, 
aJittle currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four 
spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne. 

To dress Salt Coa\ called Dumb Fish. 

Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay ii 
all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, 
then break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over it parsnips 



iish. 33 

'boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boil up with cream and 
* large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. 

The most usual way > 
And perhaps die best, is to serve it up if hole, in a napkin 
with plenty of rkh egg-sauce. 

sxmiaEON. 
To dress fresh Sturgeon. 
Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle -with crumbs 
<rf bread, parsley, pepper, salt : fold them in paper, and 
broil gently. 

Sauce butter, anchovy, and soy* 

To roast Sturgeon, 
Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; bqste 
if constantly with butter ; and serve with a good gravy, 
to anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a 
glass of sherry* 

Another. 
Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew-pan with 
four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pep- 

Ser and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar, 
tir it over the fire till hot ; then let it become lukewarm, 
tod steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper 
Well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run 
<Jirough. Serve with sorrel and anchovy sauce. 
An excellent imitation of pickled Sturgeon. 
Take a fine large turkey, but not old ; pick it very nicely 
£nge, and make it extremely cleans bone and wash it, 
and tie it across and across with a bit of matstring wash- 
ed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of 
Water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white ( but not sweet) 
Wine, and a very large handful of salt : boil and skim it 
Well, then boil the turkey. When done enough, tighten 
tie strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two 
pounds over it 

Boil the liquor half an hour ; and when both are cold* 
put the turkey into it This will keep som$ months, and 
eats more delicately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and 
Sugar, are usually eaten with it If more vinegar or salt 

Sould be wanted, add when cold* Send fennel over it to 
He#- 



34 BOMESTfC COOKERY. 

Shad 
Is most commonly pickled and kept for broiiin£a*m 
relish. But makes an ea*eHeut dinner dish when fresh. 
Scate, split down the beck, cuefuNy wash and dry it. 
Season highly if ith salt, black pepper* and Cayenne brail 
for half an hour, or until well done ; butter it and serve 
with plenty of egg'Sauce. 

Serre in a napkin, and with the sauce which yo* will 
find directed for it under the next article. 

Stewed Carpi Blade, or ttock Ftik. 

Scale and clean, take care of the voe, &c. Lay the fish 
is. a stew-pan, with a riebbeef-gravy, an onion, eigbtdo ves 
adeasert-spooafiil of Jamaica pepper, the same of Mad^ 
afourtb part of the quantity of gravy or port wine (cyder 
may do); simmer close-covered; when nearly done add 
two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made 
mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter 
rolled ib flour: shake it, and let the gnavy boHa few min- 
utest Serve with sippet* of fried bread; fee roe fried, and' 
4t good deal of boree-radish and lemon. 

Baked Carp? or Black fish. 

Clean a large one ; put ia a stulfiag. Sew it up ; bnisfc it 
all over with yolk* of egg, and pat plenty of crambo; 
then drop oiled butter to baste then.; place the fish in a 
deep earthen dish, a pint of stock, a few sliced onions, a 
faggot of herbs, (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both 1 
sorts of marjoram,) half a pant of port wine, and sfcr aft* 
ehovies. Cover over tile pan, andr bake it an hour. Let 
it be done before it is wasted. Four the liquor from iffc 
and keep the fish hot while yoe heat up die liquor with or 
good piece of butter rolled in flour, a t**-spoom\ii of 
mustard, a little Caveator and a spoonful of soy. Serre 
the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, and parsley, 
and horse-radish, and put the gravy into tfce »au«e*tureen. 

Perch. 

Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serf* 
with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate 
fish. They may either be fried ok stewed, bat m stowing 
H*ey do not preserve so good a flavour- 



jtfsu: ' v *$ 

To fry Trout and Perch. 

Scale, gut, and wett wash : then dry them, and lay them 
separately on a board before the fise, after dusting som€ 
flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh 
dripping; serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. 

• Trout Orla-Genevoise. 

Clean the fish Yery well ; put it into your stew-pan, ad- 
diog half Champaigne and half claret, or sherry wine. 
Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck m 
it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme : put in it a 
crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When the 
fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thick- 
git the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil 
iip. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay 
your fish on the didhj, and pour the sauce over it. Serve 
it with sliced lemon and fried bread. 

MACKEREL. 

Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

- To broil tbem, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, 
and salt; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped 
fennel. 

Collared, as Eel, page 38. 

Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice 
and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and 
ewer with biittefc 

Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few 
peppera, and some vinegar; when cold pour it over them. 
Pickled Mackarel, called Caveac h. • 

Clean and divide them ; then out each side into three, 
Of leaving diem undivided, cut each fish into five or six 
piece* To six large mackarel, take near an ounce of 
pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a hand* 
nil of salt, all in the finest powder; mix, and making holes 
i& each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each 
piece with some of it ; then fry them brown in oil ;. let them 
stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover 
with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. ' Thus 
Aone, they may be preserved for months. 

• •.;,.<• Red MttUet. . • :• ?.-.,.,•'.•■. . 

- Clean, b^t leave the inside, fold* in oiled* paper, audi 
gWlybake ia asmali dish* Make a* sauce of the tiquor 



It." » . 



36 



DOMESTIC COOKSBY 



that comes from the fab, with a piece of butter, a little 
flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry* 
Give it a boil ; and serve in a boat, and the fish in the pa* 
per cases. 

To Dress Pipers. 

Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned. If 
baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish; and 
when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, ^and a 
. Squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce* 

To Bake Pike. 

Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then 
stuff it with the following : grated bread, herbs, anchovies, 
oysters* suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four 
yolks of eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then 
put it into the fish, and sew it up; butter should be put 
over it in little bits ; bake it Serve sauce of gravy, but* 
ter,and anchovy. Note: if, in helping a pike, the back 
and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn down- 
wards, there will be fewer bones given. 

haddock. 
Boil; or broil tvith stuffing as under, having salted them <t 

day. 
To Dry Haddock. 

Choose them of two or three pounds weight : take out 
the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the 
back-bone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the 
bodies and eyes* Lay them on a board for a night ; then 
hang them up in a dry place, and after three ox four days 
thry will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg; and 
atoew crumbs over them. Lay them before the Ore, and 
baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg* 



Whitings, if large, are excellent this way; and it will 
prove an accommodation in the country where there is no 
regular supply of fish. 

Staffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. 

Take equal parts of tat bacon, beef-auet, and Iresh bai- 
ter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and 
a few leaves of scented, marjoram shred fine ; an antnovy 
or two \ a tittle salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oys- 
ters will be att improvement with or without *achovttff{ 
dd crumbs, and an egg to bind. 



soles, called fiat fish. 

It boiled, they must be served with great cart to lot* 
perfectly White, and should be much covered with parsley* 

If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crua&a 
of bread ; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, 
and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, 
boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it ; do them of a 
iirie brown. See to fry, page 35. 

©otes that hive been fried eat good cold with oily v4i*a> 
j$ar, salt, and mustard. 

Stewed Soles. 

Do as black fish, page 64. 

Sales mother wdy. 

Take two or three soles,di vide them from tile tteefefcm, 
and take off the heady fins, and tail. Sprinkle the fcisMfe 
with salt, roll them up tight from the tail-end upwards, and 
fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half, 
a fish in each roll ; small do not answer. Dip them into 
yolks of eggs, and covet them with crumbs. Do the egg 
over them again, and linen put more crumbs ; and fry them 
a beautHwl cofofcr in lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. 

8<des in the Portuguese way* 
* Take one large or two small: if large, cot the fish id 
fcwb ; if small they need only be split. The bones being 
taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and 
some lemon-juice, give it a fry, then lay the fiab on a dish, 
and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round 
fastening the roil with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls 
into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then 
strew crumbs over ; and put the remainder of the egg, with 
a little meat-gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy 
chopped fine, and some parsley chopped, into the bottom 
of the pan ; cover it close, and bake till the fish are 4oae 
enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the disl* 
for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy 
baked is skimmed ; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured 
as above, must be prepared and added to it Garnkh 
with parsley. 

An exceUent way of dressing a large Flounder 

sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-fair hoars; then 



0S DOMESTIC COOKEBY. 

irash and wipe it dry,wet over with egg,cover with crumbs: 
of bread ; make some lard or fine dripping, and two large 
spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot ; lay the fish in, and fry 
it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried 
parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish 
to vinegar, and not put it iuto the pan. 
, Tefry small peat fish. 

They should not be washed more than is. necessary to 
.clean them. Dry them in a cloth; then lightly flour them, 
but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg,tben into bread 
crumbs grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of 
boiling lard : let them continue gently boiling, and a few 
minutes will make them a bright yellow-brown. Take 
not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, op- 
beauty will be lost. 

EELS. 

Spitckcock Eels. 

Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut then 
>ihto pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly- 
side, and clean them nicely : wipe them dry, and then wet ' 
them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chop- 
ped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of 
mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub 
the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine 
colour. 

Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. 
.,. . Fried Eds. 

j If small they should be curled round and Med, being. 
; first dipped into egg aad crumbs of bread. 
j. Boiled Eels. . 

f The small • ones are. beet : l 4o them in a small quantity of 
water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served 
up with them and the liquor.. * 

Sej?Vre ; cJu*pped parsley and butter for sauce. < 
... . Eel Broth, .very nourishing for the Sick. 
.• Do as above ; but stew two hours, and add an onion sag - 
pepper cor as : salt tq taste. 

Collared Eel. 

Bone* a large-eel, but don't skin it : .n*ls pepper, salt, 
macej a&gftee^aod a clove octwo, in. the finest powder, 
and rub over the whole inside ; roll it tight, and bind with 



V 

a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till enough, then add 
Vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve 
it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and 
a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with 
the spices, greatly improve the taste. 

To Stew Lamprey, 

After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage 
which rims down the back, and season with a small quanti- 
ty of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it 
into a small stew-pot, with very strong beef-gravy, port, 
and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry. 

It must be, covered close ; stew till tender, then take oWt 
the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor 
with two or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and 
butter ; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon- 
juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of 
bread and horse-radish. 

Eeh, done the same way, eat a good deal like the laril-- 
prey. When there is spawn, it must be fried and put 
round. ~ 

Note. Cider will do in common instead of white wine. 

FLOUNDERS, 

Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two 
'hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg, 
cover With crumbs, and fry them. 

Water Souchy. 

Stew two or three flounders, some parsley-leaves and 
roots, thirty peppercorns, and a quart of water, till the 
fish are boiled to pieces ; pulp them through a sieve. Set 
over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, 
some perch, trout, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and 
roots of parsley ; simmer all till done enough, then serve in 
a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to 
table, to eat with the souchy. » 

HERRINGS. 

To Smoke Herrings. - - 

Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre oft* 
night ; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a 
row. Have ready an old cask, in which put some saw- 
dust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot ; fix the stidfc 
ever the smoke, and let them remain tweety4©*f hours* 

» 3 



4# s »*MK6TIC COOKEBT. 

m 

Fried Herrings. 

Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced antf 
fried. 

Broiled Herrings. 

Flour them first, and do of a. good colour : plain butter 
for sauce. 

> Potted Herrings. 

- Are very good done like Mackarel, see page 35. 

To Dress Red Herrings. 

Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open* 
and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an 
hour ; drain them dry, and make them just hot through be- 
fore the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and 
serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes, 
should be sent up with them. 

Baked Herrings. 

Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with all* 
.«pice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves ; lay them 
in a pan with plenty of black pepper, and an onion. Add 
half vinegar and half small-beer, enough to cover them. 
Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you 
like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make 
them look red. Gut, but do not open them. 

2.0BSTKRS and SHRIMPS. 
To Pot Lobsters. 

Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, 
reason with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press 
close into a pot, and cover with butter ; bake half an hour; 
put the spawn in. When cold take the lobster out, and 
put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the 
other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix 
that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to 
cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, i€ 
approved. 

Anotlier way to Pot Lobsters. 

Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail 
and remove the gut : if the inside be not watery, add thaL- 
£eason with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove 
or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the 
bottom of the pan, and tiie lobster smooth over it; cover it 
with butter, aud bake gently. When done, pour the whole- 



JtfSH. -41 

era die bottom of a sieve ; and with a foi k lay the pieced 
into potting pots, some of* each sort, with the seasoning 
about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not 
hpk It will be good next day; or highly seasoned, and 
thick covered with butter, will keep some time. 

Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricasee, with a 
eream-sauce ; it then looks very nicely and eats excellent* 
ly, especially if there ia spawn. 

M&ckarel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted a$ 
above* 

Stewed Lobster, a very high relish* 
Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a 
lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoon* 
ftils of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut-ketchup, a 
little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the 
lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. 

Buttered Lobsters. 
Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak 
brown-gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little' 
flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. 

To roast Lobsters. 
When you have half boiled the lobster take it out of 
the water, and while hot, rub it with butter and lay it be^ 
fore the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has & 
fine froth. 

Lobsters or Prawns. 
Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with or 
small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal-gravy, 
and four of cr«* v 3i ; rub smooth one or two teaspoonfuls of 
ourrie, powder, a teaspoonful of flour, and an ounce of but- 
ter; simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add 
salt. 

Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful dish. 
Make a savoury fish-jelly, and put some into the bofc-' 
torn of a deep small dish : when cold, lay the cray-fish 
with their back downwards,and pour more jelly over themi* 
Turn out when cold. 

To butter Prawns or Shrimps. 

Take them out of the shells ; and warm them with ft- 

Bttle good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of 

nutmeg, salt,, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and 

serve with sippets ; or with a cream-sauc^y instead erf 



^ 



42 BOMESTie COOKERY 

To pot Shrimps. 
When boiled, take them out ot the skim, and 
them wilb salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and 
cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten min- 
utes, and when cold put butter. 

CRABS. 

Hoi Crab. 

Pick the meat out of a crab, clear die shell from the 
fiead, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
a bit of batter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonfuls of 
vinegar, into the shell again, and *et it before the fire. 
You may brown it with a salamander. 

Dry toast should be served to eat it upon. 

Dressed Crab cold. 

Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, 
gait, and a little white pepper and Cayenne ; then put the 
mixture into a large shell, and serve. Very little oil is 
necessary. 

OYSTERS. 

To feed Oysters. 

Put them into water, and wash them with a birch besom 
(ill quite clean ; then lay them bottom-downwards, into a 
pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover 
with water* Do the same every day, and they will fatten. 
The water should be pretty salt 

To stew Oysters* 

Open, and separate the liquor from them, then wash (hem 
from the grit ; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters 
a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a fe^white pepper?. 
Simmer them very gently, and put some cream, and a lit- 
tle flour and butter. 

Serve with sippets. 

Boiled Oysters 
Sat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first ; and serva 
in them, to eat with cokl butter. 

To scallop Oysters. 

Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells, or saucers, atrd 
bake before the fire in a Dutch-oven. 

* 

Fried Oysters. 
Make a batter of flour, milk, and eg^s, season it a very 
Tittle, dip the oysters into K, and fry them a fine ytffow? 



WflH. 



4S. 



browth A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, 
and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 

Oyster Sauce. 

See Sauces. * 

Oyster loaves* 

Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them in it ; theft 
strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tower, 
with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of 
nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; 
put them into rolls. \ 

Oyster Patties. 

See Patties. 

. % To Pickle Oysters. 

Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get Sfe 
their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, ad- 
ding to it a desert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace^ 
a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very sail; 
three of white wine, and four of vinegar. — Simmer the 
oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small 
jars, and boU the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pom: 
over the oysters ; cover close. 

Another way to pickle Oysters. 

Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into & 
saucepan with, their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer 
them very. gently ; then put them into a jar, one by one, 
that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them 
when cold with the pickle thus made. — Boil the liquor 
with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to 
every hundred put two 'spoonfuls of the best undistillod 

viaegar. 

1*. They should £e kept in small jars, and tied close w.ith 
bladder, for the air will spoil them. f 

. Note. Direction? for making Fish Pus will bcfouwl 
tinder the head Pigs. 



l< 



44 



DOMESTIC* COOXBBT. 



PART 11. 






MEATS. 

To choose Meats. 

Venison. — If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the 
cleft part smooth and close, it is youngs but if the cleft 
is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run 
a very 6harp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, 
and you will know by the scent. Jb ew people like it when 
it has much of the haut-gmU. 

Beef. — If the flesh of ox-beef is young it will have a 
fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel tender. 
The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for when 
that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed 
by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The 
gfoin of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of 
oat-beef ; but the lean is not of so bright a red. Theg rain 
of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the least 
of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the re- 
verse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest ; but in small 
families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better if finely 
fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of 
beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not 
finely flavoured. 

Veal. — The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so 
White* The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred 
for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having 
been made so by frequent bleeding, and having had whiting 
to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well co- 
vered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the 
shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; 
but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts 
should be dry and white : if clammy or spotted, the meat 
is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and 
the suet will not then be firm. 

Mutton. — Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good 
colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being 
young f if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age : 



bbm. 



JRnd Quarter, 

1. Sirloin. 

2. Rump. 

3. Edge Bone. 

4. Buttock. 

S^ Mouse Buttock. 

6. Veiny Piece. 

7. Thick Flank. 
0. Thin Flank. 
9. Leg. 

10. Fore Rib; toe Ribs. 



11. Middle Rib , four Ribs. 

12. Chuck ; three Ribs. 

13. Shoulder or LegofMut 
ton Piece. 

14. Brisket. 

15. Clod. 

16. Neck or Sticking Piece. 

17. Shin. 

18. Cheek. 



ysAi. 



1. Loin, best End. 

2. Loin, Chump End. 

3. Fillet, 

4. Hind Knuckle. 

5. Fore Knuckle. * 



6. Neck, best End. 

7. Neck, Scrag End. 

8. Blade Bone. 

9. Breast, best End. 
lO. Breast, Brisket End. 



1. Leg 

2. Loin, best End. 

3. Loin, Chump End. 

4. Neck, best End. 

5. Neck, Scrag End. 



mutton. 



6. Shoulder. 

7. Breast. 

A Chine is two loins. 
A Saddle is two Necks. 



FORK. 

1. The Sparerib. 

2. Hand. 

3. Belly or Spring. 

4. Fore Loin. 

5. Hind Loin. 

6. Leg. 



VENISON. 



1. Haunch. 

2. Neck. 

3. Shoulder. 

4. Breast. 



but this only holds with wether mutton: the flesh of the 
ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram-mutton is very 
s£rong*flavoured, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fed is 
spongy. 

Lamb. — Observe the neck of a fore quarter : if the vein 
is bluish, it is fresh; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is 
stale. In the hind quarter, if there is a faint smell under 
the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is state. If 
the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Gr«ss4arob 
tomes into season in April or May, and continues till Au- 
gust. Howe-tomb may be had in great towns almost all 
the year, but is in highest perfection in December and Ja- 
nuary. 

P*r£.-— Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If 
the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by 
the finger, k is old. A thin rind is a merit in al} pork. 
When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy* 
It is tainted. What is called measly pork it very unwhole- 
some ; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, 
which in good pork is never the case. Fork fed at still- 
houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being 
spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. ' - 

Ztocon.— -If die rind i& thin, the fat firm, and of a red 
tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to 
the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there 
are yellow streaks in k, it is going, if not already rusty. 

Hams. — Stick a sharp knife under the bone : if it comes 
out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife 
is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. * Hams short 
In the hock are best* and long-legged pigs are not to he 
chosen For any preparation of pork. 

Brawn.^-l!h& horny part of young brawn will feel mo- 
derately tender, and the flavour will be better; the rind 
irf old will be hard. 
Observations on purchasing* keeping, and dressing Meet. 

In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes far- 
thest ; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most 
nourishment. Round of bee£ fillet of veal, and leg of mut- 
ton, are joints that bear a higher price, but as they h we 
- more solid meat, they deserve the preference. It is worth 
notice, however, that those joints which are inferior, may 
tie dressed as palatably > and being cheaper, they ought to 



40 DOMESTIC COOXK&Y. 

be bought la turn; for, when they are weighed wkh the 
prime pieces, it makes the price of these come lover. 

la loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bene 
should be takes out, as it is apt to taint; as also the ker- 
nels of beef. Rumps and«dgebones of beef are often braised 
by the blow* the drovers give the beasts, and the part that 
has been struck always taints; therefore do not purchase 
these joints if bruised. 

The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, after 
soaking and brushing, may be added to give richness ta 
gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing 
for sick persons. • • 

When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come 
in, part of the suet may be eut off for puddings, or to cla- 
Tify. 

Dripping will baste every thing as well as butter, except 
fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should 
be used. 

The fat of a neck or loin of mutton makes a far tighter 
pudding than suet. 

Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should 
be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, 
or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot 
water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for 
any heat to dress them properly afterwards. 

In warm weather, meat should be examined well when 
it comes in; and if flies have touched it, the part must be 
cut off, and then well washed. la the height of summer, it 
is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour 
in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to hare 
been fly-blown : then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready 
aud rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful 
over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle 
in, whioh will make it ready for the table in three or four 
days. If it be very much corned, wrap it in a well-flout- 
ed cloth, aftor rubbing it with salt This last method will 
corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes in, but it 
must be put into the pot when the water boils. 

If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hang- 
ing two or three days before it is salted. 



w 



ItKAT. 

The water in which meat lias been boiled makes an ex- 
cellent soup for the poor, by adding lo it vegetables, oat- 
meal, or peas. 

Roast-beef-bones* or shank-bones of ham, make fine 
peas-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day be- 
fore eaten, that the fat may be taken off. 

In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling 
of meat The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalt- 
ed, is, as before directed, to, examine it well, wipe it every 
<lay, and put some pieces of charcoal over it* If meat is 
brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher 
should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in 
the morning ? but even then, if it is kept on the road while 
he serves the .customers who live nearest to him, it will 
very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the 
country. 

Wash all meat before you dress it : if for boiling, the col- 
our will be better for soaking ; but "if for roasting, dry it. 

Boiling in a well-floured cloth wiH make meat white. 

Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skim- 
med the moment it fcoils, otherwise the foulness will be dis- 
persed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skim- 
med, the better and cleaner they will be. 

The boiler and utensils should be kept delicately clean. 

Put the meat into cold water, and flout it well first. 
Meat boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken 
ihat in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be 
underdone. 

If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; 
therefore when you wish it to boil away, take off the cov 
er of the soup-pot. 

Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except 
carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. 

As to the length of time required for roasting and boil- 
ing, the size of the joint must direct ; as also the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the 
regular though slow progress it makes; for if the cook when 
told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, lets it stop 
from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be sufficient 
and the meat will be underdone. 



4ft DOMESTIC COOKCftY. 

Weigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints, a quar- 
ter of an bour for every pound, and some minutes (from tea 
to twenty) orer, according as the family like it done. 

A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a halt 
and others in proportion. 

A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boilmg, after 
soaking : a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a 
half to three hours, or more if very large ; it must be judg- 
ed by feeling whether it is very tender. 

A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the full allowance of 
twenty minutes above a quarter of an hour to a pound* 

In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two 
hours and a half; twenty pounds will take three hours 
and three quarters. 

A neck of mutton will take an. hour and a half, if kept 
at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. 

The meat should be put at a good distance from the 
fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part be- 
comes hot,* which will prevent its being scorched while 
yet raw. Meat should be much basted ; and when nearly- 
done, floured to make it look frothed. 

Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over 
the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for bast- 
ing, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. 

The cook should be careful not U> run the spit through 
the best parts ; and should observe that it be well cleaned 
before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears 
on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the 
bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to 
injure the prime of the meat;, and the cook should have 
leaden skewers to balance it with: for want of winch, 
ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. 

In roasting meat it is a very good way to. put a little salt 
and water into the dripping pan, and baste for a little while 
with this, before using its own fat or dripping* When dry, 
dnstit with flour, and baste as usual. 

Salting meat before it is put to roastdraws out the gravy J 
it should only be sprinkled when almost done. 

Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a pro- 
per size for what is required, are the first articles of a good 
cook's attention in roasting. ' ' 

Old meattdo not require so much dressing as young ; 



V^HISON. 49 

fiotthat tfaey are sooner done, but they can be eaten with 
{he gravy more in. 

A piece of writing-paper should be twisted round the bone 
at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or ven- 
ison, when roasted, before tliey are served. 

When you wish fried tilings to look as well as possible, 
do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is 
not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The 
fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the 
meat, fish, <fcc. are put in, and kept so till finished : a small 
quantity never fries well. 

To keep meat hot. — It is best to take it up when done, 
though the company may not be come ; set the dish over a 
pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to 
touch die meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This 
way will not diy up the gravy. 

VENISON. 

To keep Venison. 

Preserve the venison diy, wash it with milk and water 
very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least 
damp remains, then dust pounded ginger over every part, 
which is a good preventive against the fly. By thus mana- 
ging and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to be 
used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, aud dry i£ 
Pepper is likewise good to keep it. 

To dress Venison. 

A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half, or 
three quarters, roasting : doe, only three hours and a quar r 
ter. Venison should be rather under than over done. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it 
over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt ; then lay 
a coarse paste oq strong paper, and cover the haunch f 
tie it with fine packthread, aud set it at a distance from- 
the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often : tea 
minutes before serving takeoff the paste, draw the meat 
nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal 
of flour, to make it froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and nod into the 

dish (unless there is none in the venison) and made thus ; 

- cut off die fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old 

mutton, and set in steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes 

just to brown one side; put them iat# a satice»pan with a 



. SO DOMESTIC COOKBBV. 

quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer 
it gently ; then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is de- 
duced to a pint Season with on'y salt 

Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat 

Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison : which, as 

some still like it, it may be necessary to direct Grate 

white bread, and boil it with port wine, water, and a large 

< stick of cinnamon; and when quite smooth take out the 

cinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it 

Make the jelly-sauce thus : Beat some currant-jelly 
and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire 
till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and 
a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above. 
Serve with French beans. 

Haunch, Neck, and Shoulder of Venison. 
Roast with paste as directed above, and the same sauce. 

To stew a shoulder of Venison. 
Let the meat hang till you judge proper to dress it; then 
take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay 
some slices of mutton fat, that have lain a few hours in a 
little port wine, among it, sprinkle a little pepper and all- 
spice over it in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it 
Set it in a stew-pan that will only just hold it, with some 
mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wioe* 
and some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close covered, 
and as slow as you can, for three or four hours. When 
quite tender, take off the tape, set the meat on a dish, and 
strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 
This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very- 
fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should \k 
stewed with it 

Breast of Venison. 
Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty. 

Hashed Venison 
Should be warmed with its own gravy, or seme without 
seasoning, as before; and only warmed through, not 
boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton- 
fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and. sugar, 
simmer till dry ; then put to the hash, and it will eat as 
well as the fat of the venisou. 

For Venison Pasty., look under the head Pastry ; as 
likewise sm excellent imitation* 



Bfifif* 51 

BEEF. > 

To Jkeep Beef. 

The butcher should take cut the kernels in the netk- 
pieces where the shoulder clod is taken off, two from. each 
round of beef; one in the middle, which is called the 
pope's eye ; the. other from the flap : there is also one in 
the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are «ot 
taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use 
for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel 
between the rump and the edgebone. 
' As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the took 
should take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well in- 
to such beef as 1 s for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that 
which is for roasting. 

The flesh of cattle that arc killed when not perfectly clear- 
ed of food soon spoils. They shodld fast twenty-four hours in 
winter, and double that time in summer, before being killed* 
To salt Beef or Pork, for eating immediately. 

The piece should not weigh more than live or six pounds. 
Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the pot 5 
take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold 
it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it 
as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size. 
and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. 

Great attention is requisite in .salting meat : and in the 
country, where large, quantities are cured, this is of parti- 
cular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprinkled, 
and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rub- 
bed with the salt: which method, by cleansing the meat 
from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong. It 
should be turned every day ; and if wanted soon, should bfe 
rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, and 
4 cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt 
meat will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, 
and when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled 
and drained. Salt is so much increased in price, as to re* 
quire great care in using it ; and the brine ought not to be 
thrown away, as is the practice of some, after once using. 
To salt Beef red ; which is extremely good to eat fresh 
from the Pickle, or to hang to dry. 

Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you ean (tfye 

B 3 



'H 



$2 DOMESTIC COOKUY. 

lank Is most proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day? 
then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and baysalt, bat 
only a small proportion of the saltpetre, and you may add 
a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the 
pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it 

It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it 
from the pickle; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth 
when heated with wood, or send it to the baker's. A few 
days will smoke it. 

A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt- 

It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to 
be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extreme- 
ly tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cokT 
(bid it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place 
two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. 

The Dutch nay to soli Beef. 

Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or 
brown sugar, and' let it be turned often. In three days 
wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten 
fine ; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fort-' 
night Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a 
targe weight ; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it 
Upside down every day. Boil it in pump-water, and press 
it; it will grate or cut into shivers, like Butch beef. 

Beef-a-la-mode. 

Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cot 
into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow? 
let each bit be near an inch thick : dip them into vinegar, 
and then into a seasouing ready prepared of salt, black pep. 
per, allspice, and a oiove, all in fine powder, with parsley, 
ehives, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as 
Small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife 
make holes deep enough to let in the larding ; ther>rub the 
beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with 
tape. Set it in a well-t joned pot over a fire or rather stove t~ 
three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the 
beet with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two 
•f celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer 

gntly ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning 
e meat twice. 



C"'«"1i» '■ 



BEEF. $3 

, Put the gfavy into, a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef 
covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port 
wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vegetables; 
or you may Ptrain them off, and send them" up cut into 
dice for garnish. Onions roasted, and then stewed with 
the gravy, are a great improvement. A tea-cupful of vi- 
negar should be stewed with the beef. 

A Fricqndeau of See/, 

Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon season- 
ed with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it in- 
to a stewtpan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a 
buudle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of gar- 
lick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When 
the meat is become tender, cover it close : skim the sauce 
Well, and strain it : set it on the fire, and let it boil till it k 
reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and 
"serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. 

To stew a Hump of Beef. N • 

Wash it well ; and season it high with pepper, Cayenne, 
salt, allspice, three cloveB, and a blade of mace, all in fine 
powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will 
just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them 
to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a 
blade of mace, aud some celery. Cover the meat with good 
beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possi- 
ble for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat; 
and add to the gravy half a pint of port;wiue, a glass of 
vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup : simmer half art 
hour and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table beer 
may be added. The herbs to be used should be parsley* 
thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny-royal, knotted mar- 
joram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to 
proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several 
sorts ; let there be a good handful all together. 

Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, ok 
picklea of different colours, cut small, and laid in little 
heaps separate ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &c. If 
when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only 
a part to season for serving, but the less water the better ; 
and to increase the richness, add a few beef bones said shank* 
of mutton in ste^iog, 



50 P0ME8TIC COOKE&Y. 

Beefsteaks 
Should be cut from a rump tbat has hung a few days. Broil 
them over a very clear or charcoal fire : put into the diab 
a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup : 
and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. 
It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn 
out on either side. 

This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done, 
that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. 
Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the 
fire. 

Beefsteaks and Oyster-sauce. 

Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them in* 
to cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the li- 
quor with a bit of mace and lemon peel ; then put the oys- 
ters in, stew them a few minutes, and a little cream if you 
have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour ; let them 
boil up once ; and have rump-steaks, well seasoned and 
broiled, ready for throwing the oyster sauce over, the mo- 
ment you are to serve. 

Beef-Steaks, another way. 

Beat them a little with a rolling-pin, flour and season, 
then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown; lay the 
steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over 
them as will serve for sauce : stew them very gently half 
an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor* 
before you serve. 

Italian Beefsteaks. 

Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well 
hung, or it will do from any tender part : beat it, and season 
with pepper, salt, and onion; lay it in an iron-stew-pan that 
has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the 
fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it 
must have a strong heat; in two or three hours it will be 
quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. 

Bcef-Collop. 

Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other ten- 
der part, and divide them into pieces three inches long ; 
beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry 
the collops quick in butter two minutes; then lay them ia 
to a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy 



BfcEf . 57 

add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least 
bit of sbalot shred as fioe as possible, half a walnut, four 
email pickled cucumbers, and a tea-spoonful of capers cut 
small. Take care that it does not boil ; and serve the stew 
in a very hot covered dish. 

Beef-Palates. 

Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; 
then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you 
choose ; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as 
possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, 
salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also 
some butter and flour. 

If to. be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them 
in a fricassee-sauce : adding cream, butter, flour, and mush- 
room powder, sand a little pounded mace. 

Beefcakes for a side-disk of dressed Meat, 

Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat ba- 
con, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, 
or garlick : mix them well ; and make it into small cakes 
three inches long, and half as wide and thick; fry them in 
a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. 

To pot Beef 

Take two pounds of lea i beef, rub it with saltpetre, and 
let it lie one night : then salt with common salt, and cover 
it with .water four days in a small pan. Dry it \rith a 
cloth, and season with black pepper; lay it into as small a 
pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake 
it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. 

When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat 
Very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, 
but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it in- 
to a paste ; put it into very small pots, and cover them with 
melted buttef, 

Another way* — Take beef that has been dressed, either 
boiled or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, 
salt, a few. cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter 
just warm. 

This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a 
good way for using the remains of a large joint. 

To drrss the Inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef 
t Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, into pieces as thick 
as your finger, and two inches long : dredge it with flour ? 



4ft N DOMESTIC COOKERY* 

and fry in butter, of a nice brown : drain the butter from 
the meat and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any 
account. Before you serve add two spoonfuls of vinerar. 
Garnish with crimped parsley. 

Fricassee of cold Roast-Betf 

Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of 
parsley very Email, cut an onion into quarters, and put all 
together into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and some 
strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and simmer 
very gently a/ quarter of an hour; then mix into it the 
yolks of two eggs, a gfess of port wine, and a spoonful of 
vinegar; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn 
the fricassee into it 
«* To dress cold Beef that has not been done enough, 

called Beef-Olives. 

Cut slices half an inch thick, and four. inches square; 
lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little 
suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with 
a small skewer : put them into a stew-pan with some gravy 
made of the beef-bones, or the gi avy of the meat, and a' 
spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh 
meat will do. 

To dress the same, called Sanders. 

Mince beef or mutton, small, with onion, pepper, and 
salt; add a little gravy; putitiuto scollop-shells, or sau- 
cers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with 
potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a bit of butter on 
the top, and brown them in an oven or before the fire, or 
with a salamander. 

To dress the same, called Cecils. 

Mince any kind *of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of 
onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped 
parsley, pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix; these 
over a fire for a few minutes ; when cool enough, make 
/ them up into balls of the size and shape of a turkey's egg, 
with an egg; sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry 
them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy ai before 
directed for Beef-oKyes. 

To mince Beef 

Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; 
put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a 



-J 



Tery little will do), a little Water, peeper, and salt : boil it 
till the onion is quite soft; then put some of the gravy of 
the meat to it, and the uiinoe. Don't let it boil. Have a 
small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the 
mince Into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with 
it: if shalot- vinegar is used, there will be no need of the 
onion nor the raw shalot. 

To hash Beef. 

Do it the same as in the last receipt ; only the meat Is 
to be in slices* and you may add a spoonful of walnut li- 
quor or ketchup. 

# ^* Observe, thai it is owing to boiling hashes or rain* 
ces, that they get hard* All sorts of stews, or meat dress- 
ed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last 
only hot through. 

Beef-arla-vingrette. 

Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, 
and a little fat ; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of 
white* wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion;, season 
it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is 
nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve 
it Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar 
for sauce. 

Round of. Beef 
Should be carefully salted, and wet with the pickle fof 
eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and , 
the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It 
may be stuffed with parsley, if approved ; in which case the 
holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp* 
pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in 
tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and af* 
terwards kept boiling very gently. 

Rolled Beef that equals Hare. 

Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of 

Eort wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight 
ours ; feve ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. 
Roast it on a hanging-spit ; and baste it with a glass of port 
wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spooitiul of 
pounded Allspice. Larding it improves the look and fla- 
vour : serve with a rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jelly* 
and melted butter, in tureens. 

F 



..a* 



00 DOMKSTIC COOXBRY. 

To roast Tongue and Udder. 

After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt 
and saltpetre three days; then boil it, and likewise a fine 
young udder with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then 
tie the thick part of one to the thin part of die. other, and 
roast the tongue and udder together. 

Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. 
A few cloves should be stuck In the udder. This is an 
excellent dish. 

Some people like neats' tongues cured with the root, io 
which case they look much larger but otherwise the 
root must be cut off close to the gullet, nest to the tongue, 
but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The 
root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well 
cleaned, before it is dressed ; and the tongue should be laid 
in salt for a day and a night before pickled. 
To pickle Tongues for boiling. 

Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. 
Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next 
day : then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of com- 
mon salt, the same of course sugar, and about half as much „ 
of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a 
week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed 
every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight ; but if 
only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five 
weeks without being too salt. 

When you dry tongues write the date on a parchment 
and tie it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you like 
best. 

When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender; 
allow five hours ; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. , 
The longer kept after drying, the higher it will be ; if hard, 
it may require soaking three or four hours. 

Another way.— Clean as above ; for two tongues allow 
an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-prunella; rub 
them well. In two days after well rubbing, cover them 
with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, 
then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. 
In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry 
place. * 



BEEtf. 



6J 



To sterv Tongue. 

Salt a tongue with saltpetre aod common salt for a meek* 
turning it every day. Boil it tender enough -to peel : 
when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy ; season 
with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, 
and salt if necessary. 

Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both 
this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the 
tongues before salting, but some fat left. 

An excellent rvayjtf doing Tongues to eat cold. 

Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a 
little b3y-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine 
powder, for a fortnight : then take away the pickle, put the 
tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on.it: cover 
it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a 
straw would go through it. 

The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates 
like hung-beef, and also makes a fine addition to the fla- 
vour of omlets. 

Beef-heart. 

Wash it carefully ; stuff with pieces of bacon, and spice, 
and serve with rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. 

Hash with the same, and port wine. 

Stewed Ox-cheek, plain. 

Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be 
eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with 
three quarts of water,; simmer it after it has first boiled 
up and been well skimmed. In two hours put plenty of 
carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it 
often ; when the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup 
^et cold, take- off the cake of fat, and serve the soup sepa- 
rate or with the meat. 

It should be of a fine brown; which might be done by 
burnt sugar ; or by frying some onions quite, brown with 
flour, and simmering them with it. This last way iin* 
proves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown 
kind. 

If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may 
be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried 
and added. Celery is a great addition, and should al- 



$2 DOHKSTIC eoOKKEY. 

ways be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of 

H give* quite as good a flavour, boiled-in, and strained off. 

To dress an Ox-check another way. 

Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty 
of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a 
pan with a large onion, a bAnch of sweet herbs, some 
bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. 

JLay the bones on the top ; pour on two or three quarts . 
of water, and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a 
dish that will fit close/ Let it stand eight or ten hours 
m a slow oven; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or 
on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into 
a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, 
and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vege- 
tables you choose. 

Marrorv-boncs. 

Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them, and serve 
with dry toast 

Tripe 
May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion 
rill tender. Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. 

Or stei? the thin part, cut it into bits, in gravy : thickest 
with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. 

Or fricassee it with white sauce. 

Soused Tripe. 

Boil the tripe, but not quite tender ; then put it into 
salt and water, which must be changed every day till it is 
all used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into a batter 
of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. 

Ox feci, or Cow-heels, / 

May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritious 
in all. 

Boil them ; and serve in a napkin, with melted butter, 
mustard, -and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown 
fricassee : the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relish- 
ing, and likewise to give richness to soups or gravies. 

Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and 
then flour and fry them ; and fry onions (if you like them) 
to serve round. Sauce as above. 

Or bake them as for moek-tonrtfe. 



TEAL. 

To keep Veal. 

The first part that turns bad of a teg of veal, is where 
the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken 
out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, 
by which means it will keep good three or four days in 
hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs 
along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hin- 
der it from tainting. The skirt of the breast of veal is 
likewise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast wiped 
and scraped and sprinkled with a little sal t. 

Leg ofVeaV 

Let the fillet be cut large or small, as bests suits the 
number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the 
space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite 
round ; and send the large side uppermost. When half 
roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat ; and take 
care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance 
from the fire, as the meat is very solid ; serve with melted 
butter poured over it. — Tou may pot some of it. 

Knuckle qf VeaL 

As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to 
leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or col- 
lops before it be dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep lon- 
ger than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices til! 
wanted. Break the bones to make it take less room ; wash 
it well ; and put it into a sauce-pan with three onions, a 
Made of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns ; cover it 
with water, and simmer till quite reajry. In the mean 
time some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, 
or rice, or a little rice fiour, to give it a small degree of 
thickness; but don't put too much. Before it is served, 
add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up 
either with or without the meat. 

Or fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a 
good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a 
cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water an 
hour ; then add these to the veal ; and stew it till the meat 
is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw in pep* 
per, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all togeth«£ 

* a 



34 09M£stic cookery: 

Shoulder of Veal. 

Gut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast the* 
other part for stuffing : you may lard it Serve with melt- 
ed butter. 

The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eat? 
extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or mush- 
room-ketchup in. butter. 

Neck of VeaU 

Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion-sauce. 
It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and but' 
ter nay be served with it, instead of onion-sauce. 

Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and 
pepper-corns, with a very little water. 

Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. 

The best end may be either roasted, broiled^ as steaks^ 
er made into pies. 

Neck of Veal a la-bretise* 

Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped- 
-fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg : put' it into a tosser, and 
cover it with water. Put to it the scrag-end, a little lean 
bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, 
and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two 
"hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the 
liquor : mix a little four acd butter in a stew-pan till 
brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper aide to the bot- 
tom of the pan. Let it be over the (ire till it gets.colour* 
•d ; then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and 
boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze Orange or Jemon-juice 
into it. ■ 

Breast of Veal. 

Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken off 
and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter 
ihould be poured over it 

If any be left\ cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put 
them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; of if 
you have no broth, a little water will do ; add a bunch of 
herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchor 
▼y ; stew till the meat is tender,, thicken with butter and 
lour, and add a little ketchup ; or the whole breast may- 
be stewed, after cutting off the two ends- 



-vr T , --^t- ^ 



veal*. 9$ 

Serve the sweetbread whole upon it : which may either 
be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, 
herbs, pepper and salt, and browned in a Dutch oven. 

If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew 
them with it, and serve. 

Boiled breast of veni, smothered with onion-sauce, is an 
excellent dish, if not old nor too fat* 

To roll a breast of Veal. 

Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the 
meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped 
very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some 
thick slices of fine ham ; or roll it into two or three calves* 
tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skin* 
ned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it Set it over 
the fire to simmer in a small quantity of water till fy is 
quite tender: this will take some hours. Lay it on the 
dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. 
- Pigs or calves feet boiled and taken from the bones, may 
be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layer* 
look well when cut ; and you may put in yolks of eggs 
boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in dif- 
ferent parts. 

Another way. 

When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the 
liquor; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will 
not keep. 

' Chump of Veal a la+daube. 

Cut off the chump end of the loin; take out the edge* 
bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight* 
and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a lit- 
tle faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few 
white peppers, and a pint of good veal-broth. Cover the 
veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white pa? 
per over it Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, 
then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. — Serve it on 
mushrooms, or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. 
Veal rolls of either cold Meat or fresh* 

Cat thin slices ; and spread on them a fine seasoning of 
a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped bam t 
and a little suet, parsley, and shalot (or instead of the pars- 
ley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced)» 
yepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace* 



£6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

This stuffing; may either fill up the roll like a sausage, 
or be rolled with the meat. In either c£se tie it up very 
tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of 
sherry. 

Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. 

Harrico of Vedk 

Take the best end of a small neck : cut the bone abort, 
but leave it whole ; then put it into a stew-pan just cover- 
ed with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have 
ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sli- 
ced, and two cabbage lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed 
in a little good broth : put them to the veal, and let them 
simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour 
the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with 
forcemeat bal Is round it. 

A Vunclm of cold Veal or Fowl. 

Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor and a 
bit of butter, a quarter of an hour; mince them very small, 
and add them (with their liquor) to minced veal, with also 
a little pepper -and salt, some cream, and a bit of butter 
rubbed in less than half a tea spoonful of flour. Simmer 
three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. 

Minced FeaL 

Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it Put 
to it a very little lemon-peel shreYl, two grates of nutmeg, 
some salt, and four or five sp6onfuls of either a little weak 
broth, milk, or water ; simmer these gently with the meat, 
buf take care not to let it boil ; aud add * bit of butter 
rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape, round the disb. 

To pot VeaL 

Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may 
do it as follows : 

Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with 
some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves; lay it 
close into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up 
with water, and bake it three hours; then pound it quite 
small in a mortar, and add salt to taste : put a little gravy 
that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon ; other* 
.wise only a little butter just melted* When done, cover 
ft over with butt*** 



fat 



VfiAL. 



V 



To pot. Veal or Chicken with Ham. 
. Found some cold veal or white of chicken, seasoned as 
directed in the lastarticle, and put Jay ere of it with layers 
of ham pounded ox rathe? shred : press each down, and 
cover with butter. 

Cutlets Maintenon. 

Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat 
them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with 
egg: dip them into a. seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, 
thy me, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg 
grated : then put them into papers folded over, and broil 
them ; and have in a boat melted butter, with a little 
mushroom ketchup. 

Cutlets another way. 

Prepare as above, and fry them : lay them into a dish t 
and keep them hot ; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of 
butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little boiling 
water into it, and boil quick ; season with pepper, salt, and 
ketchup, and pour -over them. 

Other ways, — Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets 
in a Butch oven; pour over them melted butter and' 
mushrooms. 

Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck-steaks, 
They are excellent without herbs. 

Veal Cottops. 

Cut long thin collops ; beat them well : and lay on them 
a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat 
en that, seasoned high, and also a little garlick and Cay* 
enne. Roll them up tight, about, the size of two fingers, 
hut opt more than two or three inches long : put a very- 
small sfeewer to fasten each firmly ; rub egg over ; fry 
them of a line brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. 

To dress Collops quick. 

Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and 
in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, 
into a little watery with a dust of pepper and salt: set them 
on the fire while you beat the collops : and dip them into 
a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of 
nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of but- 
ter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry $ 
for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on hotk 



V 

t 

i! 



i 

i 

i 



08 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

sides; put them into a hot dish before the fire; then 
strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying 
pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an 
improvement 

Another way. — Fry them in butter, only seasoned with 
salt and pepper ; then simmer thera in gravy, either white 
or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. 

If white add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. 
Scallop of cold Veal or Chicken. 

Mince the meat extremely small ; and set it over the 
fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and 
a little cream, for a few minutes ; then put it into the 
scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over 
which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the 
fire. 

Either veal -or chicken looks and eats well prepared in 
this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried ; 
or these may be put on in little heaps. 

Fricandeau ofVeaL 

Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg* about nine 
inches long and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the 
rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. 
Lard the top and sides: and cover it with fat bacon, and 
"then with white pepper. Lay it into the stew-pan with any 
pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot 
sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, a pint 
of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean 
ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew 
slowly three hours; then take up the meat* remove all the 
fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep 
the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with 
the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel sauce in 
a sauce-tureen. 

A cheaper ', but equally good, Fricandeau of VeaL 

With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck 
from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length 
of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last re- 
ceipt; three or four bones only will be necessary, andthey 
will make the gravy ; but if the prime part of the leg is 
cut off, it spoils the whole. 

Fricandeau another way. 

Take two large round sweetbreads and prepare them 



VEAL. 09 

as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles, 
morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms and serve it 
round. 

Veal Olives. 

Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices 
of fat bacon, and over, these a layer of forcemeat seasoned 
high, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. Roll them 
tight, about the size of two fingers, but not morfe than two 
or three inches long ; fasten them round with a small skew-, 
er, rub egg over them, and fry them, of a light brown. 

Serve with brown gravy* in which boil some mushrooms 
pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. 

Veal Cake. 

Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and 
}ay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot ; shake in 
a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add 
then eggs again ; shaking in after each some chopped par- 
sley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put 
in water enough to cover it; and lay on it about an ounce 
of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it 
about an hour. .Then pressit close together with a spoon, 
and let it stand till cold. 

It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will turn 
out beautifully for a supper or side dish. 

Veal Sausages. 
- Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and a few ancho- 
vies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used roll and fry 
it, and serve it with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, 
or on white collops. 

m . Scotch Collops. 

Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and ra- 
ther round ; beat with a rolling pin, and grate a little nut- 
meg over them ; dip into the yolk of an e^ and fry them 
in a little butter of a fine brown : pour the butter off; and 
have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, 
a little bit of butter rubbed into, a little-flour, a yolk of egg, 
two large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. ' Don't boil 
the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with 
the collops. 

To boil Calfs Head. 

Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may 



,1 



70 DOMESTIC COOKBET. 

look very white ; take out the tongue to salty and the 
to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender ; 
then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and 
brown them; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Ba- 
coh and greens are to be served to -eat with it 

The brains must be boiled ; and then mixed with melt* 
ed butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. 

If any of the head is left, it may be bashed next day, 
and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. 

Cold calf* head eats well if grilled. 

• To hdsk Coifs Head. ' 

When half-toiled* cut off the meat in slices, half an inch 
thick, and two or three inches lonr : brown some butter, 
flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices with some 
good £ravy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skira it 
well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very 
tender. 

Season with pepper, jalt, and Cayenne, at first ; and ten 
minutes before serving, throw in soma shred parsley, and 
a very small bit of marjoram cut as fine as possible ; just 
before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. JPorce-' 
meat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. 

Another way. — Boil the head almost enough, and take 
the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp 
knife ; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks 
of two eg£B, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely 
shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg all 
mixed together first. Set the dish before the fire: 
ajad keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the 
head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the 
remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peefcthe 
tongue : put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an 
onion, a small bunch of herbs (consisting of parsley, basil, 
savoury, marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt, and 
Cayenne, a shalot, a glass of Bherry, and a little oyster-li- 
quor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the 
meat which should be dredtred with some flour. Add some 
mushrooms either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and mo- 
rels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup ; then beat up half the 
brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. 
Simmer the whole. • \ 



r»"' — < 



^f EAL. ?1 

Beat tbei&ther part of tfee brains with sirred lemon-peel, 
a little nutflheg afnd mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. 
Then fry it in little cokes of a beantiftil yellow-brown. 
Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same ; 
and also some rtlishing forcemeat balls made as for mock 
turtle. Garnish with these, and small bits of bacon just 
made hot before die fire. 

Calf's Hedd fricasseed. 

Clean add half-boil half a head ; cut the meat into small 
bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the 
bones, some of th'e water it Was boiled in, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. Season the gravy 
with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour 
and butter, and give all a boil together; then take out the 
herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but don't 
boil it in. 

Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and halls. 

To collar Coifs Head. 

Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take 
out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the* 
bones : then have ready a good quantity of chopped pars- 
ley, mace, nutmeg, salt, am 1 white pepper, mixed well: 
season it high with these ; lay -the parsley in a thick layer, 
then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful 
coloured tongue skinned, and theri the yolks of six nice 
yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the herfd 
quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and 
then lay a weight on h. 

A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. / 

Mock Turtle. 

Bespeak a calPs head with the skin on, cut it in hal£ and 
clean it well ; then half-boil it, take all the meat off in 
square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in 
some veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry 
some shalot iti butter, and dredge in flour enough to thick- 
en the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one 
or two boils; skim it carefully, and then put in the head; 
put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the 
meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, 
{Jut in some basil, chives, parsley, Cayenne pepper, and 

G 



72 Domestic cookery. 

salt, to your taste; also two spoonfuls of mushroom ketch* 
up, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the 
tureen, and pour the soup upon it Forcemeat balls, and 
small <££.£. 

A cheaper way. — Prepare half a calf's head, without 
the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the 
bones, and put them into a sauce-pan with some gravy 
made of beef and veal bones; and seasoned with fried 
onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or 
three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into 
small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, 
is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour and 
onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as 
above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two 
spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketch* 
up, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, &c. 

Another. — Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine 
cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of 
allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover them with water, 
then tic a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an oven 
for three hours. When cold take off the fat very nicely ; 
cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half square ; 
remove the bones and coarse parts ; and then put the rest 
on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of 
mushroom ketchup, half a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, 
a little mushroom-powder, and the jelly of the meat. W hen 
hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add some : and serve 
with hard eggs, forcemeat-balls, a squeeze of lemon, and -a 
spoonful of soy. 

This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent 

Another. — Stew a pound and a half of scrag of mutton, 
with from three pints of water to a quart ; then set the broth 
on, with a ealfs foot and a cow-heel, cover the stew-pan 
tight, and simmer till you can get off the meat from the 
bones in proper bits. Set it on again with the broth, a 
quarter of a pint of Madeira wine or sherry, a large onion, 
half a teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, 
two anchovies, sonic sweet herbs, eighteen oysters cut into 
pieces and then chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, a little 
nutmeg, and the liquor of the oysters; cover it tight, and 
simmer three quarters of an hour. Serve with forcemeat- 
ball?, and hard eggs in the tureen. 



^ 



'*■ w 



^P '■ . 



VEAL. 






An excellent and very cheap mock turtle may be ma-le 
of two or three cow-heels baked with two pounds and si 
half of gravy beef, herbs, &c. as above with cow-heels 
and veal. 

Calfs Liver. 

Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and broil nicely ;• 
rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. 

Calf's Liver roasted. 

Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it 
with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good 
deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and 
an egg : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal- 
caw I, and roast it. * ; - 

Serve with good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. 
To dress the Liver and Lights. 

Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them ina^ 
middling sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the 
water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, 
simmer ten minutes and serve hot 

Sweetbreads. 

Half-boil them, and stew them in a white gravy ; add* 
cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. 

Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. 

Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumby 
herbs and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch overt. 
Serve with butter, and mushroom ketchup or gravy. 

Sweetbreads roasted. 

Parboil two large ones : when cold, lard them with bacon 
and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter 
and mushroom ketchup. 

Sweetbread ragout. 

Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry 
them, then fry them of a fine brown : pour to them a good 
gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice,and either mush- 
rooms or mushroom ketchup ; strain, and thicken with 
butter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, 
and mushrooms. 

Kidney. 
Chop veai-kidney, and some of the fat ; likewise a lit-* 
tie leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an eg£ 
into balls, and fry them. 



*4 DOMESTIC qOOKKBT. 

CalPs heart stuff aad roast as a beefs heart, or sliced^ 
make it into a puddingy as directed for steak or kidney 
pudding. 

pork, &c. 

Bacon-hogs and porkers, are differently cut up. 

Hogs are kept to a larger size; the chine (or 5 back- 
bone) is cut- down on each pide, the whole length, and is. a 
prime part either boiled or roasted. 

The aides of the hog ape made into bacon, and the fn» 
side is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each, 
fide there is a large spare-rib; which is usually divided 
into twp, one sweet-hone and a blade-bone. The bacon is 
the whole outside : and contains a fore-leg and a ham ; 
which last is the binddeg, but if left with the bacon is call- 
ed a gammon. There are also griakjns. Hog's lard is 
the iuaep fat of the bacon hog. 

Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the bo$ as well aft 
Uacon* 

Porkers are not so old- as hogs ; their flesh is whiter add. 
less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four 

Starters. Ths fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the 
re-kriuor neck, the apare^rib and griefcin* The hia4 
has the leg and the lain. 

The feet of pork make various good dishes* and should 
be cut off before the legs are cured. Observe the sarae of 
the ears, * 

The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, 
and sometimes singed* The porker is always scalded. 

To roast a Leg of Pork. 

Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit m the 
knuckle with a sharp knife ; and fill the space with sage 
awl onion chopped, and a little peppen and salt. When 
hal Wone, score the skin in slices, but don't cut deeper* 
than the outer rind* 

Appje-sauce and potatoes, should be served 1 to eat with-it* 
To boil a Leg of Pork. 

Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh 
it : let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white : 
allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half aa 
hour over, from the time it boils up ; skim it as soon as it . 
boils, and frequently after. Alfow water eaoogli* Sav$ 



MBit. t&\ 

some of it to make peas-soup. Some boil it in a very nice 
clotb* floured; which gives a very delicate look. It 
should be small and of a fine grain. - 
Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 
» Loin and Neck of Pork. 
Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distan- 
ces of half an inch, with a sharp pen-knife. 

Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. 
Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a leg 
when very nice, they may be roasted. 

Rolled Neck of Pork. 
Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few 
erumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of 
allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as yon- 
Can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first* 
Spring or Forehand of Pork. 
Cut out the bone : sprinkle salt, pepper,, and sage dried* 
tver the inside ; but first warm a little butter to baste it* 
and then flour it ; roll the pork tight, and tie it ; then 
roast by a hanging jack. About two hours will do it. 

Spare-rib 
Should be basted with a very little butter and a little flour, 
and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled. Apple- 
sauce, and potatoes for roasted pork. 

Pork Griskin 
Is usually very hard ; the best way to prevent this is, to 
put it into as much cold .water as will cover it, and let it 
boil up; then instantly take it oft; and put it into a Dutch 
•ven ; a very few minutes will do it. Remember to rub » 
butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. 

Blade-hone of Pork 
Is taken from the bacon-hog $ the less meat left on it in 
moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and when just 
done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, and 
a tea-spoonful of mustard ; aqd serve it covered, quickly. 

To dress Pork, as Lamb. 
Kill a young pig of four or five months old ; cuf up the 
fore-quarter for roasting as you do tamo, and truss the 
shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled , 
pork ; or steaks, pies, &c. 



■ v^rv—T^r^wwm^rw 



^ 



7# »0MKfiTia cooker?, 

J?** Stew**. * 

Cut then* from a loin or neck, and. of middling tbfcfc" 
nese; pepper and broil tbew, turning tfaem: often-; wtoft 
nearly done, putoo 8att^l«J^a»biiof bilterovoi, and, serve 
the moment they aw taken off the five** few at a time. 

To ftkkk Pork. 

The quantities profMHtioircd to. the middUBgfcof *p»ettjr 
large hog, the bams and sbouidora being eufc off. 

.Mi*, aad pound fins* four ounces of sajftpetire* a pound 
of coarse sugar, an ounce of aal pruod, and a little com- 
mon ealt : sprinkle the potk with salt, and drain it twenty- 
four hours: then rub with the above; pack tha piece* 
tight io a wall. deep tub, filling up the spaces with, com*. 
iQM aa)t Place large pebbles on the poifc* to. preheat it 
from awinjjniag in the pickle which the salt will produce 
If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two years* 

Sausage*. 

Chop fat and lean pork together; season it with sage, 
pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of 
allspice : half fill hog's, guts that have been soaked audi 
made extremely clean : or the meat may be kept in a very 
small pan, closely covered ; and so rolled and dusted wiik 
% very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red 
cabbage 5 or mash potatoes put in a form, brown wish sal** 
■lander, and garnish with the above ; they must be prick- 
fed with a fork before they are dressed, or they will hunt* 
An excellent Sausage to cat celd. 

Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, blacft 
i jpepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the 
meat; the sixth day cut it small; aiM * wix with H som* 
shred shalot or garlick, as fine aa possible. Have ready 
m ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked weh\ 
and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and 
hang it to smoke as yon would hams, but first wrap it in 
a fold or two of oW muslin. It muat be high-di%d. Some- 
oat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first The 
skin should be tied in different places, so as to make each 
fink about eight or nine inches long. 

Anrihtr Sausage. 

Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veaV 
cleared of skin and sinews f add three quarters of a pound 



V- 



ofbeef-siiet ; B&iflce «pd mix them ; staep the crumb of * 
small loaf in water,, and mix it with the meat, with also a 
little dried sage, peppier, and salt 

To wold « Sudcwgs Pig- 

The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water for 
a Tew minute* ; then rub it over with a little resin beaten 
xfremely small, and put it kite a pail of wadding water 
half a minute : take it out, lay it on a table, and purl off the 
bair as quickly m possible ; if aags part does pot come off 
put it in ageiow Whoa quite clean, wash it well with* 
warm water, and then in two or three «*oW waters, that na 
Okvohy of the *e«n nsay remain. Take- off all the feet at 
the ftwt joint $ wake a slit down the belly, and take out. 
the entrails; put the liver, heart, and lights, to the feet. 
Wash the pig well in cold water, dry k thoroughly, and 
fold, it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. 

To nasi a Sticking Pig. 

if you em get it when just killed, this is of great a4» 
rentage. Let it be scalded, which the dealer? usually do ; 
tihen put some sage, crumbs .of bread, salt, and pepper, into; 
the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs 
hack, or the under part will not crisp. 

Lay k to a brisk fi>e till thoroughly dry $ then have 
Beady some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with 
it in every, part. Dredge as much flour over as will 
possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; 
then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife* 
lubit well with the buttered clpfca, and take off the head* 
while at the fire; take out the brains, and mix them *witu 
the gravy that conies from the pig. Then take k up : and 
without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back antf 
belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread 
quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large 
quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. 
Put the sauce into the <\™h after the pig has been split 
down the back, and garnished with the ears and the twd 
jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the snouk 

Sometimes it is served whole, if very small : the head 
only being cut off to garnish as above. 

Pettitoes. 

Boil them, the liver, aod the heart, in a small quantity 
©f water, very gently $ then cut the meat fine, and simmetf* 



's* 



**te 



73 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet 
are quite tender ; thicken with a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper : 
give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and 
put the feet on the mince. 

To make excellent Meat of a Hog's Head. 
Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and 
sprinkle it with common salt for a day : then drain it ; 
salt it well with common salt aod saltpetre three days, 
then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for 
two days. Wash it, and boil it till all the bones will come 
out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possi- 
ble : but first skin the tongue, and take the skin Carefully 
off* the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, 
salt, and a little mace or allspice berries. Put the skin in- 
to a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other 
skin over ; press it down. When cold, it will turn out, 
and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put a few 
bits of lean pork to be prepared the same way. Add salt 
and vinegar, and boil these wHh some of the lifjuor for a 
pickle to keep it. l 

To roast porker's Head. 

• Choose a fine young head, cleau it well, and put bread 

and sage as for pig ; sew it up tight, and on a string or hang- 
ing jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce. 
To prepare pig's Cheek for boiling. 
Cut off the snout, and clean the head; divide it, and 
take out the eyes and the brains ; sprinkle the head with 
salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days if to be 
dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dreft- 

!* sed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then sim- 

f* mered till all is tender. 

To collar Pig's Head. 
Scour the head and ears nicely ; take off the hair and 
snout, and take out the eyes and the brain : lay it into 
water one night : then drain, salt it extremely well with 
common sdt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. -Boil it 
enough to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, 
turning the thick end of one sirte of the head towards the 
Uriu end of the other to make the roll of equal size : sprkK 



ss-ws ""*"*" — jr- ■•— "■••!. ^- v - ■ — ~ »■? 



H 
1 



* 

Me it well vitb salt and white pepper, and roll it with the 

ears ; and if you approve, put the pig's feet round the out* W T 

side when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put 

it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite 

tender ; then put a good weight upon it, aud don't tak 

off the covering till, cold. 

If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it lftnger, 
and let the proportion of .saltpetre be greater, and put in 
also some pieces of lean pork ; and then cover it with cow- 
heel to look like the horn* 

This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and 
water boiled, with vinegar ; and is a very convenient 
thing to have in the house. 

If likely to spoil, slice *od fry it either with or without 
batter. 

To dry Hag\ Cheeks. 

Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, 
taking off the upper bone, to make the cbewl a good shape; 
rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and 
«alt it again the following day; cover the head with half 
an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay-salt, a little com- 
mon salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head 
be often turned ; after ten days, saaoke it for a week like 
Jb&con. 

To force Reg's Mars. 
Parboil two pair ox ears, or take some that have beea 
soused ; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, para- 
ley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, 
pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these nith the yolks 
of two eggs; raise the skin of the vpper side of the ears, 
and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh but* 
ter, of a fine colour; then pour away the fat, and drain 
them : make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass 
of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made mustard, a little 
bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little 
pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew- 
pan, and cover it close ; stew it gently lor half an hottr* 
shaking the pan often* When done enough, take out the 
onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the 
sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted; the mejtt 
pom two feet may be added to the ab&ve* 



rr 



-«-'»« ."HP ^1 ■"■! 



H 



38 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

* 

Different ways of dressing Pig's Feet and Ears. 

Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil thern 
tender ; then take them out ; boil some vinegar and a little 
salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over 
them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the 
feet in two, and slice the ears ; fry, and serve with butter, 
mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in bat- 
ter, or only floured. 

Pig's Feet and Ears Fricasseed. 

Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with 
cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them 
in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in 
a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon- 
peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, butter 
and salt. 

Jelly of Pig's/ Feet and Ears. 

Clean and prepare as iathe last article, then boil'them 
in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be 
taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the 
same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace 
in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then 
pour the whole into a melon-form. 

Pig's Harslet. 

Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean 
bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make 
it tender : season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion 
shred fine 1 ; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it 
up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging 
jack, or by a string. 

Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. 

Serve with a sauce of port- wine and water, and mustard, 
just boiled up, and put into a dish. 

Mock JBranm. 

Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender; take the meat off; 
and have ready the belly -piece of pork, salted with com- 
mon salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough : 
take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. 
Then roll it very tight witlj a strong cloth and coarse 
tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth 
till cold ; after which keep it in a sousing liquor, as is di- 
rected in the next article. 



^•••^^ 



rouit. . $1 

House for Brawn, and for Pig's Feet and Ears. 

Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, and a sprig of 
yosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt 
hi it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. 

To make Black Puddings. 

The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Fut fc 
quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak 
one night ; and soak the crumb of a loaf in rather more 
than two quarts of new milk made hot. In the mean time 
prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping with 
salt and water, and changing the water several times. 
Chop fine a little savoury and thyme, a good quantity of 
penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, 
ginger, and nutmeg; mix these with three pounds of beef- 
suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained : and then beat 
the bread, pits, &c. all up with the seasoning; when well 
mixed, have ready some hogs' fat cut into large bits ; and 
as you fill the skins put itin at proper distances. Tie in 
links, only half filled; and boil in a large kettle, pricking 
them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay 
them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in 
the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes 
in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch oven. 

If there are not skins enough, put the stuffing iuto basins, 
and boil it covered with flour cloths; and slice and fry it 
when used. 

Another way. — Soak all night a quart of bruised grits, 
iu as much boiling hot milk as will swell them and leave 
half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of .penny- 
royal, some savoury, and thyme ; salt, pepper, and allspice 
finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the 
blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins 
after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much 
of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make 
it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity 
of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improve- 
ment 

Another way. — Boil a quart of half-grits in as much 
milk as will swell them to the: utmost; then drain them and 
add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, 
sajne mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine 



i 
i 

\ 



^^ 



/ 

\ 



12 DOMESTIC QOOKHILY. 

powder; two pounds of the hog's leaf eat into dice, two 
leaks, a handful of parsley, tea leaves of sage, a large hand- 
ful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and marjoram, all 
minced fine; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread 
crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, 
and salt. Half fill the skins ; which must first be cleaned - 
with the greatest care, turned several times* and soaked in 
several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in 
links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent their 
bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. 

White Hog's Puddings. 

When the skins have been soaked and cleaned as before 
directed, rince and soak them all night hi rose-water, and 
put into them the following filling : mix half a pound of 
blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound 
of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound 
of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nut- 
meg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two 
eggs, a little orange flower-water, a little fine sugar, and 
some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. 
To know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. 
In boiling, much care must be taken to prevent the pud- 
dings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they 
rise, and boil them in milk and water. Lay diem in a 
table-cloth till cold. 

Hogs Lard. 
Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of wa- 
ter, and boiled, run it into bladders that have been ex- 
tremely well cleaned. The smaller they are, the better 
the lard keeps ; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. 
Putin a sprig of rosemary when meltiqg. 

This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should 
be prepared with care. _ Mixed with butter, it makes fine 
crust. 

To cure Hams. 

Hang them a day or two; then sprinkle them with a 
little salt, and drain them another day ; pound an ounce 
and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, 
half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest 
sugar. Mix these well ; tmd rub them into each ham 
every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one, 



r 

» 



VOItK. t3 

ton it evefy day for three creeks : If a large one, a week 
longer f but don't' rub after four day*. Before you dry 
it, drain and cover with bfan. Smoke it ten days. 

Awftker waft/.— Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and 
well-fed; hang it as above; if large, put to it a pound of 
bay salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest 
sugar, and a handful of common salt, all inline powder, and 
rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover 
the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as you 
can with the pickle ; the more the better* Keep it four 
weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran 
over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, 
and turn it sometimes for ten days. 

Another nay. — Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt 
as above ; then nib it every day with the following, in fine 
powder : half a pound of common salt, the same quantity 
of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of 
black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. 
Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay 
it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and 
smoke it two or three weeks. 

Another way, that gives a high flavour. — When the 
weather will permit, hang the ham three days; mix an 
ounce of saltpetre with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, 
the same quantity of common salt; and also of coarse su- 
gar, and a quart of strong beer : boil them together, and 
pour them immediately upon the ham ; turn it twice a-day 
in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, 
and the same quantity of allspice, in line powder, added to 
the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with 
bran when wiped: anc^ smoke it from three to four weeks, 
as you approve ; the latter will make it harder and give it 
more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in coarse 
wrappers, if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. 

A method of giving a still higher flavour. — Sprinkle 
the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days ; 
let it drain ;*make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half 
a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander seeds, two oun- 
ces of juniper-berries, an ounce of pepper, the same quan- 
tity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal- 
pruael, a handful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all 

H 



M DpJtf ESH€ COOKERY. 

pounded or cut fine, Boil these nil toother a few miouUta, 
and pour them over the ham : this quantity is for one of 
ten pounds. Rub and turn it every day, for a fortnight, $ 
then sew it up in a thin -linen bag, and smoke H three 
weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it 
in bran, before drying* 
To make a Pickle that will keep for years* for Hams, 

Tongues, or Beef if boiled and skimmed between each 

parcel of them. 

To two gallons of spring-water put two pounds of coarse 
sugar, two pounds of bay, and. two pounds and a half of 
common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earth- 
en glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover 
that will fit close. ' Keep the beef or hams as long as they 
will bear, before you put them into the pickle ; and sprin- 
kle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must 
drain. Rub the hams, &c* well with the pickle, and pack 
them in close ; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that 
the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boil* 
ed at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one 
three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in proportion 
to its sire. They will oat well out of the pickle without 
drying. When they are to be dried, let each piece be 
drained over the pan; and when it will drop no longer, 
take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight 
liours will smoke them, and there should be only a little 
saw-dust and wet straw burnt to do this; but if put into a 
chimney, sew them in a coarse cloth,and hang them a week. 

To dress Hams. -. 

If long hung, put the ham into water a night; and let it 
lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones 
sprinkled with water, two or tWee days, to mellow ; 
covering it with a heavy tub, to keep vermin from it. 
Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; 
let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the size. 
When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it 
with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over 
boiling water. Take off the skin, and strew raspings over 
the ham. Garnish with carrot Preserve the skin as 
whole as possible, to keep over the ham when cold, which 
will prevent its drying. 



9O7TT0K. 9B 

Excellent Bacon. 

Divide the hog, and take the chine out : it is common 
4o remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be preserved 
better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the bacon 
six days, then drain it from the first pickle : mix as much 
salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay-salt, three 
ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each 
hog, but first cut off the hams. Rub the salts well in, and 
turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few 
days ; or dry without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near 
the fire. 

Another manner of curing Bacon. 

Sprinkle each Hitch with salt, and let the blood drain 
off for twenty-four hours : then mix a pound and a half of 
coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, not quite so 
mueh *e half a pound of Saltpetre, and a pound of common 
salt : and rub this well on the bacon, turning it every day 
for a month : then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it 
ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the 
whole hog. 

MUTTOW. 

Observations on cutting and dressing Mutton. 

Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the fe*> 
side of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great time, 
rub the part close round the tail with salt, after first cut 
ting out the kernel. 

The kernel' in the fat on the thick part of the leg should 
be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The 
chine and ribcbones should be wiped every day : and the 
bloody part of the neck be cut off, to preserve it. The 
brisket changes first in the breast; and if it is to be kept, 
it is best to rub it with a little salt should the weather be 
hot. 

Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat 
as soon as brought in : then wipe dry. 

For roasting, it should hang as long- as it will keep, the 
hioxUquarter especially, but not so lone as to taint ; lor 
whatever fashion may authorise, putrid juices ought not to 
be taken into the stomach. 

Mutton for boiling yi\\ not look of a good cotoffr ft 
bas bung long. 



9# DOXKSftC GOqK^BY. 

Great care should be taken to> preserve by paper the fat 
of what is roasted. 

Leg of Mutton. 

IS jfoaated, serve with onjon and currant-jelly sauce ; if 
boiled, with caperaauce and vegetables. 

Neck of Mutton 
1m particularly useful, as so many dishes nay be made of 
it ; but it is not advantageous for the family. The bones 
should be cut short, which the butchers will not do unless 
particularly desired. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served 
with turnips;*©* roasted; or dresse*) in steaks, in pies or 
barrico. 

The «crags may be stewed in broth; or with a small 
quantity of water, some small onions, a few popp e r -corns 
and a little rice, aad served together. 
• When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice; 
saw down the chine hone, strip the ribs half-way down* 
and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. The 
skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat 
will look the whiter. 

When there is mate 1st to the neck or loin of mutton, 
tfcaa it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an un- 
oasBtnonly good auea-pudding, or crust for a meat«pie if 
eat very fine. 

Shoulder of Mutton roasted. 

Serve with onion sauce. The biade-boue may be broil- 
ed. 

To dress Haunch of Mutton. 

Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the dif- 
$rent modes : let it be washed with warm milk and water, 
or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be dressed, observe 
to wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour 
from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour or strong paper, 
and fold the haunch in ; set it a great distance from the 
fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; don't 
take it off tiU about thirty-five .or forty minutes before 
serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch 
nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it 
up as you would venison* 

A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of 
old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no sea- 



T *T*r- 



soiling but salt : brown it with a little* burnt sugar, an&jsend 
it up in the dish; but there should be a good dealtf gra> 
vy in themeat; for thofogh long at the fire, the distance 
and covering will prevent its roasting out. 

Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

To roast a Saddle of Mutton. 

Let it be well kept first Raise the skin, and then 
skewer it on again; take it off a quarter of an hour be- 
fore serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge 
it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewer* 
ed back on each side. The joint may be large or small ac- 
cording to the company : it is the most elegant if the lat- 
ter. Being broad it requires a high and strong fire. 

Fillet of Mutton braised. 

Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, 
and put over it, and then paste as for venison; roast it two 
hours. Don't let it be the least brown. Have ready 
some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve : and 
while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up 
in gravy, and lay them on the dkh with the meat over them. 

Harrico. 

Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end 
of the neck into rather thin steaks; flour and fry them in 
their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eat* 
ing. Then put them into a dish while you fry the car- 
rots, turnips, and onions; the carrots and turnips in dice, 
the onions sliced : but they must only be warmed, not 
browned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks 
at the bottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables over them, and 
poor as much boiling water as will just cover them ; give 
one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the 
fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours 
skim them ; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. 

To hash Mutton. 

Cut thin slices of dressed mutton; fat and lean; flour 
them ; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three 
spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat 
seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a co- 
vered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of cur~ 
vant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agree-* 
afctle flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. 

H2 



88 DOMESIfC COOJ&EKT. 

Pickkd ououmber, «r walnut, cot assail, warn in it for 

GSHUMPB* 

TVdotf Sfanifcfo' of Mutton witkOysUre. 

Hang it some days, then .salt it well for two days; bone 
it ; and sprinkle it with pepper ami a bitef maoe peaaded : 
lay some oysters over it, mod roll the meatup tight and tie 
ft. Stew it Is a small, quantity of water, with an onion and 
a few pepper-corns tiU^quite tender. 

Have ready a little good gravy, aad some oystersstew- 
ed in it ,- thicken this with flour aad butter, and pour aver 
the mutton ^rfceo the tape is taken aft The «tew*pa* 
ihould be kept close covered. 

Breast of Mutton. 

Cut off the superfluaus fat, and roast and serve the meat 
with stewed cucumbers; or to eat cold, covered with 
chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the 
fire : in which ease cover it with crumbs and herbs, and 
aervc with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal 
ef the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; 
then rail and boil ; and serve with chopped walnuts, or 
capers and butter. 

Lmn of Mutton 
Hassled: tf cut lengthways as a saddle, some thiakkcate 
hetter. Or for steaks, pies, or broth." 

' To roll Loin of Mutton. 

Hang the mutton till tender : bone it; and lay a see* 
soning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few clove* 
afl in Jtne powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing 
as for hare; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing; 
toll it up tight, and tie it Half-hake it in a slow oven; 
let it grow ©eld ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into 
a stew-pan; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it 
sill almost ready : and add a glass of port wine, some ketch* 
up, an anchovy, and* a little lemon pickle, half an hour be- 
fore serving ; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. 
A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement; but if 
to eat tike hare do not use these, nor the temofiKpiekie. 

Mutton Horn. 

Choose a #ne grained leg of wether-mutton, of twelve ar 
fourteen pounds weight; let it he cut ham-shape, and bang 
two days. Then put iota a stew pan half a pound of bay- 



j 



■n I ■■ 



• V 



MUTTON. 89 

salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and 
half a pound of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix, and make 
it quite hot : then rub k well into the ham. Let it be tinv 
ned in the liquor every day; at the end of four days put 
two ounces more of common salt : in twelve days take it 
out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke a week. It i* 
tebe usee in slices, with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes, 
or eggs. 

Mutton CoUops. 

Take a. lain of mutton thai has been well hung ; and 
out from the part next the leg, some collops very thin. 
Take out the sinews. Season the collops with salt, pep- 
per, and mace, and strew over them shred parsley, thyme,, 
and two or three shalots; fry them in butter till half done: 
add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece 
of butter nibbed in flour ; and simmer the whole very 
gently five minutes. They should be served immediately 
or they will be hard. / 

MnUon Cutlets. 

Out the chops; and half-fry them in sliced fhalot or 
oruoivchopped parsley, and two bay-leaves ; ^season with 
pepper and salt ; then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white 
paper, put the chop on if, and twist the paper up, leaving 
a hole for the "ends of the bones to go through. Broil on. 
xt gentle fire. Serve with sauce Robart ; or, as the sea- 
-soniag makes Ihe cutlets high, a little gravy. 

Mutton Steaks 
Should be cut from a loin or neck that has hung: if a 
neck the bones, should not be long. They should be broil- 
ed on a dear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turn- 
ed : take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of bol- 
ter on each, and serve hot and hot the moment they are 
done. 

Steaks of Mutton, «r Lamb, and Cucumbers. 

Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, 
uprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. Pwy 
the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stew-pan ; 
drain the encumbers, and put over the steakr; add some 
ilked onions, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or weak 
broth on them; stew and skim well. 



09 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. 

Mutton Steaks, Maintenon. r ^ 

Half-fry, stew them while hot; with herbs, crumbs, and 
seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish on 
the gridiron. Be careful the paper docs not catch ; rah 
a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. • 

Mutton Sausages. 

Take a pound of the rawest part of the leg of mutton: 
that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it extremely 
small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg : 
add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two 
anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small : 
a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy 
liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. 
Put it all, when well mixed, into a Httle pot ; and use it 
by rolling it into balls or sausage-shape and frying. If 
approved, a tittle shalot may be added, or garlick, which 
is a great improvement. 

To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidneys. 

Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half aa 
hour ; then take them up, and let them stand to cool. 
Clear the gravy from the fat : and put into it four ounces 
of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of 
mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps 
with yolks of eggs well beaten : and strew over them 
crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley, 
and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine 
brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, 
and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps 
are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put 
on the dish ; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow 
ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Gar- 
nish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or 
with different coloured pickles. 

An excellent Hotch-potch. 

Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water 
with a beef or ham-bone. While these are doing, fry some 
mutton or lamb-steaks seasoned, of a nice brown; three 
quarters of an hour before dinner, put the steaks into a 
stew pan, and the vegetables over them ? stew tbem, and 
serve altogether in a tutem 



J 



IAMB. . t 

Another. — Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed 
with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butter roll- 
ed in flour. 

Mutton kebobbed. 

Take all tbe fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the 
outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it 
at every bone : mix a small nutmeg grated with a little 
salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs; dip the steaks into 
the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture aH 
over them. Then place the steaks together as they were 
before they were cut asunder, tie them, and fasten them 
on a amall spit Roast them at a quick fire? set a dish 
under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the 
liquor that comes from the meat ; but throw some moire of 
(fee above seasoning over. When done enough, take it 
tigV mid lay it in a (fish: have half a pint of good gravy 
ready besides that in the dish : and put into it two speon- 
fidsofketchup, and rub 'down a teatspoonful of flour with 
it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first 
skim off the fat weM. Mind to keep the meat hot till the 
gravy is quite ready. 

China Chilo. 

Minoe a pint-basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, 
and some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of 

Seen peas,, a tea^spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, 
XX spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarifi- 
ed butter, into a «tew-pan closely covered ; simmer two 
hours, and serve in the middle of a dkh of boiled dry rice. 
If Cayenne is approved, add a little. 

Leg of Lamb 
Should be boiled in a cloth, to look as white as possible. 
The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with 
dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or dressed 
separately, or roasted. 

Fore~quarter of Lamb. 
Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to 
be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it The 
neck and breast together is called a scoven. 
Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers. 
Cut off the chine bone from the breast, and set it on to 



9? DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

stew irith a pint of gravy. When the bones would dfew 
out, put it on the gridiron to grill ; and then lay h in a 
dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. 

Shoulder of Lamb forced, with Sorrel-sauce. 

Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat ; 
braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze 
it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The me- 
thod for both, see page 09. Serve with sorrel-sauce un- 
der the lamb. 

Lamb Steaks* 

Fry them of a beautiful brown ; when served throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and 
crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a fine co- 
lour will be given under the head of Vegetables. 

Mutton or lamb steak*, seasoned and broiled in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a 
genteel dish, and eat welL 

Sauce for them, called sauce Robart, will be found in 
the list of Sauces. 

House-Lamb Steaks white. 

Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit 
of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have 
ready some veal-gravy, and put the steaks into it; mix 
some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit 
of flour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it 
get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few 
white mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poul- 
try is very dear. 

House-Lamb Steaks brown. 

Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon- 
peel, and chopped parsley : but dip them first into egg : 
fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of 
flour and butter ; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, 
and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the steaks 
warm ; let them eat up, and serve. You may add palates, 
balls, or eggs, if you like. 

Lamb Cutlets with Spinach? 

Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them : the spinach 
is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and then the 
cutlets round it, 



Lamb's Head and Hinge. 

This part is best from a house-lamb ; but any, if soaked 
in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till 
very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three parts 
boiled and cut small : stew them in a little of the water in 
which they were boiled, season aod thicken with flour and 
butter, and serve the mince round the head* 

Lamb's Fry. 

Serve it dried of a beautiful colour and with a good 
deal of dried or fried parsley over it 

Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold wa- 
ter. Then put them into a stew-pan, with a ladle full of 
broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, 
and a blade of mace ; stir in a bit of butter aud flour, and 
stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well 
beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few 
grains of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the 
other things. Don't let it boil after the cream is in ; but 
make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care 
it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be 
added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. 

Fricasseed Lamb stones. 

Skin and wash, then dry and flour them ; fry of a beau? 
tiful brown, in hogs' lard. Lay them on a sieve before the 
fire till you have made the following sauce : Thicken al- 
most half a pint of veal-gravy with a bit of flour and butter, 
and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate 
of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large 
spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir 
it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but don't let it boil, or 
it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about 
near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish 
and cover. 
Fricassee of Latnbstones and Sweetbreads, another way. 

Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled, and 
sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads; if very thick, 
cut them in two. Fry altogether, with a few large oys- 
ters, of a fine yellow brown, four the butter off; and 
add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about an 




94 SOU ESMe COOKERY. 

inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots 
shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes ; 
then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten, and by degiees mix the whole. Turn the gravy 
back into the pan, and rtir it till of a fine thickness without 
boiling. Garnish wkhienwn. 

A very nice Dish. 

Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks* 
and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost 
round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning: 
fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes with a 
little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the 
dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak od 
another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. 

Pies of the different meat are directed aiider the gene- 
ral head of savoury pus. * 



JPJRT III. 



POULTRY, GAME, &c. 

To choose Poultry > Galne, &c. 

A Turkey Cock.— If young, it has a smooth black leg, 
with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and 
the feet supple and moist If stale, the eyes will be sunk^ 
and the feet dry. 

HenJurkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her 
legs will be red and rough. 

fowls. — If a cock is young, his spurs will be short ; but 
take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is 
a trick often practised. If fresh, the vest will be close and 
dark. Pullets are best just before they begin to lay, and 
yet are full of egg: if old hens, their combs and' legs will 
be rough ; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon 
has a thick belly and a large rump: there is a particular 
fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Black-legged 
fowls are most moist, if for roasting. 

Geese. — The bill and feet of a young one will be yellow, 
and there will be but few hairs upoo them; Jf old, they 



1 



-*^r 




ij 



DOMESTIC CCOKf BY. 



Turkey fir Roaming. 




Turkey or Fomifor JMfegv 




Qkichm or lb* for Mooting. 




Plate*. 




Duck, 




J&atk. 



M-cdtt. 



.-« 



I 



* * 



ft 1 •» » 



J 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Plate 7. 



Goose. 



■ » 




Woodcock or Snipe. 



Pigeon. 





Pheatant or Partridge* 




Hare or Rabbit Trussed/or Roaoting. 




Hare or Rabbit for Roasting or Roiling. 




i 



i 



Ntai. 



/ 



1 



/~« *^ 



I 



POULTRY. #5 

i 

l 'will be red : if fresh, the feet will be pliable ; if stale, dry 

aa<l stiff. Geese are called green JH three or four months 
old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble-goosfe 
should be picked dry. 

Ducks. — Choose them by the same rules, of having sup- 
ple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast 
: and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and in- 
clining to dusky yellow ; a wild one has the feet reddish, 
and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. 
Ducklings must be scalded. 

Pigeons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby 
j about the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale; 

The feet should be. supple; if old, the feet are harsh. 
The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought 
best by some persons; they should be fat and tender; 
but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop 
is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. 

The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh dark-colour- 
ed : if properly kepti, and not over-roasted, the flavour is 
equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. 

Plovers. : — Choose those that feel hard at the vent, 
which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them 
by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet 
are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are 
three sorts : the grey, green, and bastard plover or lap- 
wing. 

Hare or rabbit. — If the claws are blunt and rugged, 
the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old : 
but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, 
and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If 
fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares 
the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by proper 
care ; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the 
inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real 
leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near 
the foot on its fore leg; if there is none, it is #hare. 

Partridges and Quails. — They are in season in autumn. 
Tf young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellow- 
ish ; if fresh, the vent will be firm ; but this part will look 
J greenish if staler 



• 



i 



t 



9.6 DOMESTIC COOKBJLY. 

Pheasants. — The cock-bird is accouBtcd best, except 
when the lien is with-egg. If young, he has short blunt 
or round spurs ; but if old, they are long and sharp. 
Directions far dressing Poultry and Qame. 

All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug 
removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. 

The cook must be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts* 
not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take off the 
bitter where it has touched* 

la dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk 
fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave 
the gravy in : the fine flavour is lost if done too much. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in 
heating through than others. All Borts should be conti- 
nually basted ; that they may be served with a froth, and 
appear of a fine colour. 

A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour; a mid- 
dling one half an hour ; and a very small one or a chicken, 
twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear 
before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from 
half an hour to thirty-five minutes ; a goose an hour ; wild' 
ducks a quarter of an hour; pheasants twenty minutes ; a 
small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter; turkey-poults, 
twenty minutes; grouse, a quarter of an hour; quails, ten 
minutes ; and partridges, from twenty to twenty -five rain* 
utes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part 
requires most heat. 

Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turning. 
Hares and rabbits must be well attended to : and the ex- 
tremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done 
equally with the backs. 

POULTRY. 

To boil Turkey. 
Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, 
some suet, a&d an eg^ : put this into the crop, fasten up the 
skin, and boil the turkey in a Homed cloth to make it 
very white. Have ready a fine oyster-sauce made rich 
with butter* a tittle cream, and a spoonful of soy, if ap- 
proved ; and pour it over the bird : or liver and lemon- 
sauce, gen-birds are best for boiling, and should be 
ytmng. . 



POULTRY. 97 

To roast Turkey. 
The sinews of the leg should foe draws, whichever way 
tt is dressed. The head should foe twisted under the wing ; 
and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let 
the gall touch it 

Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or if sausages are to be 
served in the dish, a bread-stuffing. As this makes a lprge 
addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the 
fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not 
done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the 
bone, to hinder it from scorching while the other, parts, 
roast. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in 
the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add 
a few crumbs, and a beaten egg, to the stuffing of sausage 
meat. s 

Pulled Turkey. 
Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cut- 
ting ; then warm k in a spoonful or two of white gravy, 
and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour 
and butter ; don't bop it. The leg should be seasoned, 
scored and broiled, and put into the dish with the *bove 
round it. Cold chicken does as well. 

To boil Fowl, 
For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. 
Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour 
them, and put them into boiling water* — See time of dress* 
ing, page 96. * 

Serve with parsley and butter : oyster, lemon, liver, or 
celery sauce. 

If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served 
to eat with them ; as likewise greens. 

To boil Fowl with Rice. 
Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton-broth 
well skimmed : and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and 
salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quar* 
ter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till 
tender : then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on 
a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the 
middle of the dish, and rice round it without the, broth. 
The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less li 
* quor the fowl is done with the bettt r. Gravy, o? parsley 
and butter, for sauce* 



9& DOMESTIC COOKBBY, 

. Fowls roasted.' . 

Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with 
sausages or scalded parsley. . 

A large barn-door fowl, well hung, should be stuffed in 
the crop with sausage-meat ; and served with gravy in 
jthe dish, and with bread-sauce. 

The head should be turned under the wing as a turkey.' 

Fowls broiled. 

Split them down the back ; pepper, salt, and broil. 
Serve with mushroom-sauce. 

Another way. — Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put 
them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit ; and 
half-roast ; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either 
on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if whol- 
ly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, mu?t 
be split down the back after. 

Davenport Fowls-. 

Hang young fowls a night : take the livers, hearts, and 
tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with 
half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl,, 
an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pejv 
per, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with 
this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the 
water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till al- 
most done : then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan 
With butter enough to brown them. Serve them with fine- 
melted butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in 
the dish. 

A nice way to dress a Fowl for a small Disk. 

Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl : make a force- 
'meat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scraped lean t of 
ham, two. ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a 
few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef-suet, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-peel minced quite fine, an anchovy, sail; 
pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, 
with a tea-cupful of crumbs, aod the yolks and whites of 
three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs 
and wings inwards ; tie the neck and rump close. Stew 
the fowl in a white gravy ; when it is done through and 
tender, add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter, 
and fltfur; £ive it one boil, and serve : the. last thing, ad<J 
the squeeze «f a lemoa. 



F 



POULTRY. 0* 

To farce Fowl> She. 
Is to stuff any part with force-meat, and it is put usually 
between the skin and flesh. 
. . To braise. 

Is to put meat into a stew-pan, covered with fat bacon : 
then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if 
to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or 
fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Soups 
and Gravies)* The bacon must be covered with a paper, 
and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on 
a slow stove; and according to what it is, it wilt require 
two or three hours. The meat is then to be taken out ; 
and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil 
very quick till it is thick* The meat is to be kept hot; 
and it larded, put into the oven a few minutes : and then 
put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used 
for ham, tongue, and many made dishts. White wine is 
added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beauti- 
ful clear yellow brown, and it is best to put it on with a 
Bice brush. 

Fricassee of Chickens. 

Boil rather more than naif, in a small quantity of 
water : let them cool ; then cut up ; and put to simmer in 
a little gravy made of the liquor they are boiled in and a 
bit of veal, or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some 
white pepper, and a bunch of eweet herbs. When quite 
tender, keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the 
following manner: strain it off; and put it back into the 
sauce-pan with a little salt, a scraperf nutmeg, and a bit 
of flour and butter ; give it one boil; and when you are 
going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint 
of cream, and stir them over the fire, but don't let it boiL 
It will be quite as good without the egg. 

The gravy may be made (without any other meaO of 
the necks, feet, small wing bones, gizzards, and livers $ 
which are called the trimmings of the fowls. 

To pull Chickens. 

Takeoff the skin ; and pull the flesh off the bone of a 
cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can : dredge it with 
flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the but- 
ter from it j and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy 

1 3 



ltd DOMESTIC COOKERT. 

well seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. 
Add the juice of half a lemon. 

Another way. — Cut off the legs, a»d the whole back, of 
a dressed chicken ; if under-done, the better. Full all the 
white part into little flakes free from skin, toss it up with 
& little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with 
'flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, 
and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the 
chicken ; and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, 
and the two. legs seasoned. Put the hash in the middle^ 
With the back. on it ; and the two legs at the end. 

Chicken Currie. 

Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and fry both in 
butter with great care, of a fine light brown ; or if you use 
chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay 
the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew- 
pan; with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of 
garlic. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an 
hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of 
lice flour, a spoonful of superfine flour, and an ounce of 
butter ; and add this, with four large spoonfuls of cream 
to the stew. Salttoyonr taste* When serving, squeeze 
In a little lemon. 

Slices of under-done veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c. make 
excelleut currie. 

A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. Fot direc- 
tions to do Uiis see the article Rice in the Index. 

Another, more easily mad*.* — Cut up a chicken or young . 
rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each piece in 
a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of 
lice flour. Slice two or three onions j and fry them in 
fritter, of a light brown : then add the meat, and fry all to* 
gether till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew- 
pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Sim- 
mer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put 
more water half an hour before serving. 

If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will 
be better than water : but the currie is richer when made 
•f fresh meat 

. To braise Chickens. 

liojie tbein, and fill them with force-meat Lay the- 



POULTRY". lOT 

bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-pan* 
and the chickens on them. Put to them a few cnions, a 
faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a piut of stock, and 
a glass or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices 
of bacon, and then white pepper; cover the whole close, 
and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take 
them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully : 
set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens 
over with it with a brash. Serve with a brown fricassee 
of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the chicken into an 
oven fpr a few minutes, to give a little colour. 

Ducks roasted. 
Serve with a fine gravy : and stuff one with sage and, 
onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and 
pepper and salt ; let the other be unseasoned. 

To boil Ducks. 
Choose a fine fat duck ; salt it two days, then boil h> 
slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but melt 
the butter with milk instead of water. 

To stew Ducks. 
Half-roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan with a pint 
of beef-gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, 
pepper and salt, and a small bit of onicn shred as fine as 
possible. 'Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean : 
then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and 
simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of but- 
ter and a little flour, and give it one boil 5 then serve in 
ene dish. 

To hash Ducks. 
Cut a cold duck into joints ; and warm it, without hoik- 
ing in gravy, and a glass of port wine. 

To roast Goose. 
. After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, 
and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and 
dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper" 
and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then 
roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by de- 
grees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered 
on the breast bone. Baste It very well. When the breast 
is rising, take off the paper ; aud. be careful to serve it be- 
fore the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flat* 
ted to tables £et a good gravy be sent in the <])&* 



142 DOMESTIC OWKERY. 

Gravy and apple-sauce : gooseberry sauce for a green 

goose. 

To stew Giblets. 

Do them as will be directed for giblet-pie (under the 
bead Pies J ; season them with salt and pepper, and a ve- 
ry small piece of mace. Before serving, give tbera one 
boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in 
a tea-spoonful of flour. 

Pigeons 
May be dressed in so many ways, that they are very use- 
ful. The good flavour of them depends very much on 
their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No 
other bird requires so much washing. 

Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed, 
or made into a pie : in either case, care must be taken not 
to overdo them, which will make them stringy. They 
need only be heated up in gravy made ready ; and force- 
meat balls maybe fried and added, instead of putting a 
stuffiug into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed 
in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each 
pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. 

Seasou as usual, and put eggs. 
' To stew Pigeons* 

Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully crop* 
ped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half an hour. 
In the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if 
for pickling) into water : drain it, and then boil it in milk 
and water : drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom 
of a stew-pan. Put the pigeons upon it, hut first season 
them well with pepper and salt; and cover them with the 
remainder of the cabbage* Add a little broth, and stew 
gently till the pigeons are tender ; then put among them 
two or three spoonfols of cream, and a piece of butter and 
flour, for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the birds 
in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. 

Another away.— Stew the birds in a good brown gravy* 
either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and 
Mushrooms fresh, or a little ketchup* 

To broil Pigeons, 

After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and 
Woil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or 



P0X7LTRTT. * 103 

(tickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

Roast Pigeons 
Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole ; and r 
seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas 
or asparagus should be dressed to eat with therm 

To pickle Pigeons. i 

Bene them ; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season 
with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder; then turn 
Ihem again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put 
them into boiling water : let them boil a minute or two to 
plumb : take them out, and dry them well ; then put them 
boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal 
quantities of white wine and white wine-vinegar, with 
white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg. 
When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a 
quarter of an hour will do themj but they will take twen- 
ty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and 
Jet them cool. When the pickle is cold take the fat otf 
from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jau 
tied down with a bladder to keep out the afr. 

Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard 
yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities with sweet 
kerbs, pepper, Bait, and mace. " 

Pigeons in Jelly. 

Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has 
#been boiled : or toil a calf's or a neafs foot ; put the broth 
into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs,' 
some white pepper, lemon-peel, B a slice of lean bacon, and 
the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold:' 
Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take 
them out of the liquor, cover them dose to preserve the" 
colour, and clear the jelly by boiling with the whites of 
two eggs ; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in 
boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be per- 
fectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over 
and around them rough. 

The same, a beautiful dish. — Pick two very nice pi* 
geons ; and make them look as well as possible by sing- 
ing, washing, and cleaning the head well. Leave the head 
and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the 
daws. Beast them of a very nice brown : and when doae 



104 j&omebtic coouar- 

put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have- 
read} a savour} jelly, as before, and with kfca&fill a bowl . 
of £uch a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish 
you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds 
are cold, see that no gravy hang to the birds, and then lay 
them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it be* 
gins to set, pour it over the birds so a* to be three inches' 
above the feet. This should be done rail twentytfbur 
hours before serving. 

This dish has a very handsome appearance in the mid- 
dle range of a second course : or when served with the 
jelly roughed large, it makes a side or comer thing, its size 
being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, 
by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as -if' 
the pigeon sat upon them. 

To pot Pigeons. 

Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and sea- 
son them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a small 
deep pan ; for the smaHer the surface, and the closer they 
are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them 
with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and 
bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will 
hold two or three in each ; and pour butter over them, us*' 
in? that which was baked as part. Observe that the but- 
ler should be pretty thlek over them, if they are to be kept* 
II pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into 
the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. 
They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made witfr veal, 
{mcon, &c. and then they will eat excellently. If a high 
flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cay* 
enne, before baking. 

barks, and other small Birds. 

Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on another 
spit* and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew 
bread-crumbs upon them till half-done : brown tad serve 
with fried crumbs round. 

tilMi, &C. 

To keep Game, St. 

Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has 

been k*pt a very long time; for when it seems to be 

spoiled it may often be n&de fit for eating, by nicely 

cleaning it, and washing fciUi megar and water, if 



CAME, <feC. 105 

V 

there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and 
pick them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub 
them with miU Have ready a large sauce-pan of boil- 
ing water, and plunge them into it one by one ; drawing 
them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass 
through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in ; then 
hang«them up in a cold place* When drained, pepper 
and salt the insides well. Before roasting, wash them well. 

The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved 
thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, 
as they are never drawn ; and perhaps the heat might 
make them worse, as the water could not pass through them* 
but they bear being high. 

Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will pre- 
serve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. 

Pheasants and Partridges. 

Roast them as turkey ; and serve with a fine gravy 
(into which put * very small bit of garlic), and bread- 
sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent pat* 
ties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. 
For the manner of trussing a pheasant* or partridge, see 
plate IX. 

To pot Partridge, or Quail. 

Clean them nicely ; and season with mace, allspice, white 
pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well ; 
then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds 
as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter 
on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and 
a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the 
birds into pots, and cover them with butter. 

A very cheap way of potting Birds. 

Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when 
baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for 
helping, pack them close into a large potting-pan, and (if 
possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover 
them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted 
than when the birds are done whole. 

The butter that has covered potted things will serve for 
basting, or for paste for meat pies. 

To dress Moor-Fowl with Red Cabbage. 

Truss the moor-game as for boiling j put them on with a 



\ 



4 

- » - - _t. 



■ Tl T ~W~^ r ^ ■ 






106 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



little soupi let them stew for half an hour ; cut a stock qf 
red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor-fowl, sea- 
son with white pepper and salt, a little piece of butttr roll- 
ed hi flour; the addition of a glass of port wine is liked by 
many people. Lift out the cabbage, aud place it neatly, 
in the dish, the moor-fo w I on it. Pour the sauce over them, 
and garnish with small slices of bacon fried. 

To clarify Butter far petted Things. 

Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a 
stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take 
care not to pour the milky parts over the potted tilings : 
they will sink to the bottom. 

To pot Moor Game. 

Pick, singe, and wash the birds uicely ; then dry them ; 
and season, Liside and ou^t, pretty high, with pepper, mace, 
nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as 
will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very 
slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from 
the gravy, and put one bird .into each pot, which should 
just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but 
take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is f 
by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. 

Grouse* 

Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted un- 
der the wing. They must not be over-done. - Serve, with 
a rich gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce. The sauce for 
wild-fowl, as will be described hereafter under the head 
of Sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. 

To roast Wild Fowl. 

The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put 
pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. 

Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame : they 
should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A 
rich brown gravy should be sent in the dislu and when 
the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a 
squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improve- 
ment to the flavour. 

To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes 
have, put an onion, salt and hot water, into the dripping- 
pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this; 
<hea take away the pan, and baste constant^ with butter. 



- «•* 



GAMS, &C. 10/ 

Wild Ducks, Teal, &e. 
Should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with 
butter ; and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up, 
put a good gravy upon them, and serve with shalot-sauce, 
in a boat. 

Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails 
Keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, 
and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with 
them, as gravy takes off from the line flavour. The 
thigh and back are esteemed the most. For the manner 
of trussing a woodcock or snipe, see plate IX. 

To dress Plovers* 

Roast the gretn ones in the same way as woodcocks 
and quails (sec above) without drawing; and serve on a 
toast. Gray plovers may be either roasted, or stewed 
with gravy, herbs, and spice. 

Plover's Eggs 
Are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them' ten minute^ 
and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. 

Guinea and Pea Fowl 
Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way. 
(Seepage 105.) 

Hares, and Rabbits, 
If properly taken care of, will keep a great time, and evea 
when the cook fancies them past eating,' may be in the high- 
est perfection ; which if eaten when fresh killed they are 
not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook 
cannot prevent this : but the hare keeps longer, and eats 
much better, if not opened for four or five days, or accord- 
ing to the weather, 

If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in it should be 
wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the 
• liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping 
*yery day ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub od the in- 
side; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. If the 
spice is applied early, it will prevent that musty taste 
which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which 
also affects the stuffing. 

An old hare should be kept as long as possible : if to be 
roasted. It must also be well soaked. 



■*t«w 



fiHl DOHE8S4C COOKERY. 

* To roast Have. 

After it is skinned, let it be extremely well washed, 
aad then soaked an hour or two in water : and if old, lard 
ft : which will make it testier, as also will kiting' it lie in 
vinegar. 

If however it is put into vinegar, it should he exceed- 
ingly well washpd in water afterwards. Put a large rel- 
ishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste 
it well with milk till half-done, and afterwards with but- 
ter. If tee blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part 
in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, will remove 
it : especially if you also nick the skin here and there with 
a small knife to let it out. The hare should be kept at a 
distance from the fire at first. Serve with a line frothy 
rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce : the 
gravy" in the dish. 1* or stuffing use the liver, an anchovy 
some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
qr little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all.- 

The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They 
are reckoned a dainty. 

For the manner of trussing a hare, see plate IX. 

To jug an old Hare. 

After cleaning and skinning, cut it up ; and season it 
with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little 
nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, 
a bunch of sweet kerbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the 
c*rcass4>Qft6S over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, 
and leather or strong paper ; and put it into a eauce-pan 
of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the water 
boiling five hours. When it is to be served, boil the gra- 
vy up with a piece of butter and flour : andif the meat get 
cold, warm kin this, but not to boil. 

Broiled and hashed -Hare. 

Tbt flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine ; the • 
legs or wings must be seasoned first ; rub with cold butter, 
■and serve very l*ot. 

Tiie other parts, warmed with gravy, and a little stuf- 
fing, may be served separately. 

To pot Hare, 
Cor which an old one dam well, as likewise for soup and 



GAME, &€, 19# 

After seasoning k, bake it with butter. When cold* 
taBfe the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If 
not high enough, add salt, mace, peppec, and a piece of 
the finest fresh batter melted in a spoonful or two of the" 
gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed, put 
%t into small pots, and cover with butter. The Itgs and 
back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them 
moist, and the bones be put over them. 

Rabbits 
May be eaten various ways, as follows* 

Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare, or without 
stuffing; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in 
melted butter, pepper, and salt ; or larded. For the man- - 
ner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boiling, see 
plate IX. 

Boiled, and smothered with onion sauce : the butter to 
be melted with milk instead of water. 

Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley* T lie same 
liver-sauce, this way also. 

Fricasseed, as before directed (in page 09) for chicken* 

In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &e. In this way, 
tjhey are excellent when young. 

Potted. 

To make a Rabbit taste much like Hare. 

Choose one that is young, but full grown : hang it in 
the skin three or four days ; then skin it ; and lay it, with* 
out washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice 
in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same 
quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally, for forty 
hours ; then stuff it, and roast it as a hare, and with the 
same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked 
in. 

To pot Rabbits. 

Cut up two or three young but full grown ones, and take 
the leg bones off at the thigh ; pack them as closely as 
possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, 
mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder. 
Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads ' 
and the carcasses, but take off the meat about the neck. 
Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. 
5eep.it two days in the pan; then shift it into small pota. 



110 DOMESTIC COOKER V. 

adding butter. The livers also should be lidded, as tigfy 
eat well. 

To blanch Rabbit, Fowl, &c. 
Is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold water, 
and let it boil : as soon as it boils, it is to be taken out, wsA 
put into cold water for a few minutes* 



PART IV. 



SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

General Directions respecting Soups and Gravies. 

Whej* there is any fear of gravy -meat being spoiled 
before it be wanted, season well, and fry it lightly, which, 
will preserve it two days longer ; but the gravy is best- 
when the juices are fresh. 

When soups or gravies are to be put by, let them be 
changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever 
Jias vegetables boiled in it, is apt to turn sour sooner than 
^the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c. in metal? 

When fat remains on any soup, a tea-cupful of flour 
and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take 

If richness, or greater consistency, be wanted, a good 
lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup* 
will give either of these qualities. 

Long boiling is necessary to give the fullflavour of the 
ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups' 
and gravies ; and they are best if made the day before 
(hey are wanted. 

Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put 
at the bottom of the pan, and stewed, and the herbs, roots, 
&c. with butter, than when water is put to the meat at 
first ; and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should 
be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Don't use 
die sediment of gravies, &c. that have stood to be cold. 
When onions are strong, bpil a turnip with them ; if for 
sauce this will make them mild. i 

If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them iiju 
boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. 



i 



jHWps. HI 

A clear jelly of Cow-heels is very useful to keep ha the 
house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. 

Vermicelli and Macaroni thicken soups and sauces, 
and give them a fine flavour. Wash an ounce of each 
carefully, then simmer them a few minutes m water, 
and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c ? 
till tender* 

soups, &c. ' 

Mutton Broth. 

Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the/ 
scrag, and put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of water* 
As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then simmer it an 
hour and a half, then take the best end oi the mutton* 
cut it into pieces (two bones, in each), take some el the 
fat off, and put as many as you think proper : skim the 
moment the fresh meat I oils up, and every quarter of an 
hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the 
same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but 
not small ; and put them in soon enough to get quite ten* 
der: aud four large spoonfuls of barley, Br rice, first wet* 
ted with cold water. The meat should stew three hours* 
Salt to taste, and serve altogether. Twenty minutes be* 
fore serving, put in some chopped parsley. It is an excels? 
lent winter-dish. 

Veal Broth. 

Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, 
two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the 
liquor is half wasted away. 

Colouring for _ Soups or Gravies^ 

Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water and half 
an ounce of the finest butter, into a small tosser, aad set it 
over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a 
bright brown. Then add half a pint of water ; boil,skin% 
and when cold, bottle and cork it close. . Add to soup 09 
gravy as much of this .as will give a proper colour. 
A clear brown Stock for Gravw-Soup or Gravy. 

Put a knuckle of veal, a pound ofleaa beef, aad a pound 
«f the lean of a gammon or bacon,, all slieed, into a stew- 
with two or .three scraped carrots, two ooion% two turn] 
two he* Is of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew 
Ihe meat qpite teoAi&f but do not let it brow&t When ttyffi 

K 2 




H£ DOJUWHC COOKER?. 

prepared, it will serve either for soup, or brown or white? 
gravy ; if for brown gravy, put some of the above colouring 
and boil a few minutes. 

An excellent Soup. 

Take a scrag or knuckle oi veal, slices of undressed 
gammon or bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of 
water ; simmer till very strong: and lower it with a good 
beef-broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat 
is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as 
will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. 

An excellent white Soup. 

Take a ecrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after cutting 
«uT as much u eat as will make coilops, two or three shank- 
bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound 
of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon: with a bunch 
of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three 
onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of 
'white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the 
meat falls quite to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear 
the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce-pan of 
the nieest tin. If macaroni is used, it should be added 
soon enough to get perfectly tender, alter soaking in cold 
water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as* 
it requires less time to do. Have ready - the thickening, 
irhich is to be made as follows .: 

Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat 
them to a paste in a marble mortar with a spoonful of wa- 
ter to prevent their oiling ; mince a large slice of drest veal 
•r chicken, and beat it with a piece of stale white bread 5 
add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon- 
peel, and a blade of maee, in the finest powder. Boil it a 
few minutes : add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp 
it through a coarse «ieve : this thickening is- then fit fo* 
putting to the rest} which should boil for half an hour a& 
tferwards. v 

A plainer white Soup. 

Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small 
knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last aiv 
tide ; and both served together, with the addition of a 
quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream, 
pad a little growd rice, will give it a proper thickneav 



'^ ■_. ,-^j^, , T W ^-, - -TS--,-, - T ,T 



SOUPft. 113 

Giblct Simp. 

Scald and clean three or tour sets of goose or dack gib- 
lets : set theiu to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, 
scrag of mutton, or ihe bone of a knuckle of veal ; an ox* 
tail, or some shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large 
bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a 
large spoonful of salt. Put live pints of water, and simmer 
till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are 
quite tender.: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of 
cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom powder, and an 
ounce of butter mixed "with a dessert-spoonful of flour. 
Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It 
may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of 
sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some 
Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. 

Partridge Soup. 

Take two old partridges; skin them : and cut them into 
pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, 
and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in 
butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then 
put them ioto a stew-pan, with five pints of boiling water, 
a few pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little 
salt. Stew it geutly two hours ; then strain it through a 
sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed 
celery and fried bread ; when it is near boiling, skim it, 
four it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. 
v Macaroni Soup. 

Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good 
stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into 
another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, 
and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a 
fine sieve. Then add together that, the two liquors, a 
pint or more of cream boiling-hot, the macaroni that was 
first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan or 
pine apple cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boik 
Serve it with the crust of a roll cut into the size of a shit 
ling. 

A Pepper-pot, to be served in a Tureen. 
To three quarts of water put vegetables according to 
the season ; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach ; in win- 
ter, carrots, turnips, celery ; and onions in both. Girt' 



.U4 MHBSTHL COOXEBY. 

small, and sUtw with tw* pounds of neck oi mutton, 6r a 
fowl, aod a pouudol pickled pork, iu three quart* oi water 

till quite tender. \. 

On that boiling, skim- Half aa hour before serving 
add a lobster, or crab, cleared froa* the bones. Season 
with salt and Cayeuoe. A small quantity of ike should 
be put in with the meat Some peopfc choose verj small 
suet dumplings boiled with it Should any fat rise, skua 
nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour.. 

Pepper-pot may be made of various tbiugs, and is un-? 
dei stood to be a due proportion of fisii, flesh, few 1, vegeta- 
bles, and pulse. 

Turnip Soup* 

Take off a knuckle oi veal all the meat that can be 
made into cutlets, &c. and set the reu ainder on to stew 
with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade oi mace, and five 
pipts of water ; cover it close ; and let it do on a slow " 
fire, four or five hours at least Strain it, and set it by 
till next day ; then take the fat and sediment from it, and 
simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, sea- 
soning it with salt and pepper, Befo.\. serving, rub dowa 
half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and 
the size of a walnut of butter. Let a. small roll simmer ia 
the soup till wet through, and serve this with it It should 
be as thick as middling cream* 

Old Peas Soup. 

Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if top salt, 
put as much fresh water to it ; or use fresh water entirely, 
with roast-beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an an- 
chovy or, two. Simmer these with some good whole or 
split peas; the smaller the quantity of water at first, the 
better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a colao-* 
der ; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled 
the pea* with two carrots, a turnip, a kek, and a stick of 
celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender* The 
last requires less time ; an hour wjll do for it. 

When ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint 
rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt, into the tureen ; 
and pour the soup in* 

Green Peas Soup* 

In ^helling the peas, divide the old frem the youag; 
put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of water* 



soups. 116* 

the putside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, 
and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when 
you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed. them some 
more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces y the 
young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt and 
pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite soft. If the 
soup is too thiu, or not rich enough, either of these faults 
•may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mix- 
ed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with 
it half an hou*. Before serving, boil some green mint shred 
fioe in the soup. 

When there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary, 
but if meat be preferred, a pig's foot or ham-bone, &c. may 
be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock.. 
More butter than is mentioned above may be used with 
advantage, if the soup is required to be very rich. 

When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock 
v may be made of die shells washed, and boiled till they will 
pulp with the above ; more thickening will then be wanted. 

Gravy Soup. 

Wash and soak a leg of beef: break the bone and set it 
on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet 
herbs, two large onions sliced and fried a fine brown (but 
not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berriee 
•f allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup » 
as rich as you choose ; then take out the meat, which will 
be fit for the servants' table with a little of the gravy. 
Next day take off the cake of fat: which will serve for 
basting, or for common pie- crust Have ready such ve- 
getables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, and 
celery, small, and simmer till tender : some people do not 
like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil 
vermicelli a quarter of an hour ; and add to it a Inrge 
spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom-ketchup. A French 
roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist 
through, and served in the tureen. 

Vegetable Soup* 

Pare and slice five or six cucumbers ; and add to these 
the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, 
two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half 
of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these* with half a 



>Bx" 



lid DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

pound of fresh butter, iato a sauce-pan, to stew in their owti 
liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour; then pour two 
quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two 
hours; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, 
boil it witli the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it. 

Another way. — Peel and slice six large onions, six po* 
tatoes, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a 
pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling 
water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as pos- 
sible, but do not burn it ; put that, some celery, sweet 
herbs, white pepper, and salt, to the above; stew it aH 
gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : 
have ready sliced carrot* celery, and a little turnip, and 
add to your liking : and stew them tender in the soup. If 
approved, you may add an anchovy, and a sposoral of 
ketchup. 

Carrot Soup. 

Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of tile liquor in 
which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large 
onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt, into a sauce-pan and stew 
for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped 
and cut thin ; strain the soup on them, and stew them till 
soft enough to pulp through a hair s^ve or coarse cloth t 
then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as 
peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots 
through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used* 
Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, a«d 
not the yellow. 

Onion Soup* 

Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mutton, 
put carrot^' turnips, and (if you have one) a shank-bone, 
and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced 
and fried of a light brown; simmer three hours, skim it 
oarefuHy and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread* 

Spinach Soup. 

Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, a 
head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. 
Put all into a stew-pot* with a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has 
been boiled; stew till {he vegetables are quite tender; 
wrk the& through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon f 



* 8***8. 1>7 

then to the pulp of the vegetables, and liquor, put a quart 
of fresh water, pepper, aad salt, arid boil all together. 
Have ready gome suet dumplings, the size of a walnut; 
and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them into 
it. The suet must not be shred too fine ; and take care 
that it is quite fresh. 

Leek Smtp. 

Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew- 
pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper and 
salt; simmer the© an hour : then mix some oat-meal with 
a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set 
it on a slow part of the -fire* and let it simmer gently ; but 
take care that it does not burn to the bottom. 

Ox Rump Soup. 

Two or three rumps of beef wilt make it stronger than 
a much larger quantity of meat without these ; and form a 
very nourishing soup. 

Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or 
thickening you like. 

Hessian &tmp and Ragout. 

Clean the root of a neat's tongue very nicely, and half 
aa ox's head^ with salt and water, and 6oak them after- 
wards in water only. Then stew them in five or six 
quarts of water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup stand 
to be cold ; take off the fet, which will make good paste 
or hot meat pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a 
pint of split peas, or a' quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, 
six turnips, six potatoes, six large onioRs, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and two heads of celery * Simmer them without the 
meat, tMl the vegetables are done enough to pulp with the 
peas through a sieve; and the soup will then be about the 
thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, all- 
spice, a clove or two, and a Kttle Cayenne, all in fine pow- 
der. If the peas are bad, the soup may not be thick en- 
ough ; then *R>fi in it a slice of Tell, and put it through the 
colander; or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. 
- For the Ragout, cut the nicest part of the head, the kei* 
uels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue, into smalt 
thick pieces. Rub these with some of the above season* 
rag, as you put them into a quart of the liquor, Itept out for 
that purpose before the vegetables were added ; flour well, 



— •# 



lift ' fcOMESTll COOtfEEY. 

and simmer them till nicely tender. Then put a little mush- 
room and walnut ketchup, a little 007, a glass of port wjue 
ami a te spoonful of made mustard: and boil all up to- 
gether before served. If for company/ small eggs and 
forcemeat balls. 

This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a 
small expense, awl they are not common. The, other parf 
will warm for the family. 

Soup a^lorsap. >. 

Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sli- 
ced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion* and three ounces of 
rice, in six pints of water, to five ; strain it through a co- 
lander ; then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a sauce- 
pan again with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender* 
and add pepper and salt ; and when you serve, add also 
fried bread. 

Portable Soup. 

Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins 0/ beet 
and three pounds of beef, in as much water only as will 
coyer them. Take the marrow out of the bones : put any 
sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the 
meat is done to rags, strain it oi£ and put it into a very 
cold place. When cold, take off the cake af fat (which 
will make crusts for servants' pies), put the soup into a 
double-bottomed tin sauce-pan, and set it on a pretty quick 
fire, but don't let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered* 
and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put into a pan, 
and let it stand in a cold place a day ; then pour it into a 
round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of 
boiling water on a stove, and let it boil, and be now and 
then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy ; then it is 
enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom 
of cups or basins turned upside down, to form cakes ; and 
when cold, turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in 
tin canisters. When they are to be used, melt them in 
boiling water ; and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or 
any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt 
the soup in it. 

This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, where 
fresh meat is not always at hand; as by this means a ba- 
sin of soup may be made in five minutes. 



aovps. 110 

Soup meagre. ' 

lidt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it 
round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake 
the pan well for two or three minutes; then put to it five 
heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage-let- 
tuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well 
lor ten minutes ; then put in two quarts of water, some 
crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or 
four blades of mace ; and if you have any white beet leaves* 
add a large handful of them cut small. 

Boil gently an hour. Just before serving, beat in two 
yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Another. — Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four 
onions sliced, the coarse stocks of celery, a carrot, a tur- 
nip, and a parsnip ; then pour on them three quarts of wa- 
ter/ Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve. 
Then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. 
Stock for brown or white Fish Soups. 

Take four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels^ 

Clean them well, and cut them into pieces : <50ver them 
with water; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, aft 
onion stuck with cloves, a he,ad of celery, two parsley- 
roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour 
and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. 
If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and 
then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three 
days. 

Eel Soup, 

Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them two 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, 
some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs : 
cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken ; 
then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and 
pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be 
put in at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of 
meat A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spooni 
ful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. 

Flounder Soup. 

Make it of the stock-fish for soup (as above directed) 
jwith an ounce of vermecelli boiled in it, a little before it 
Is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the 

L 



120 DOMESTIC COOKEBV. 

yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but sot on the fire. Serve 
it with a small .French roll made hot in a Dutch ovea^ and 
then soaked in the soup an hour. 

Excellent Lobster Soup. 
Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of six 
$m dl lobsters : take away the brown fur, and the bag in 
the head ; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mor- 
tar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with the 
crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two an- 
chovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and tf bit of lemon-peei, 
till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain 
it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a 
quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of flour f mix it 
with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give 
them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with 
forcemeat balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mae£ 
pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let tfce 
balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. 

Oyster Soup. 
Make a rich mutton broth, with two large, onions, three 
blades of mace, and black- pepper. When strained pour 
it on a hundred and fifty oysters, without the beards, and* 
bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of 
an hour, and serve. .■ , : 

Clam Soup. 

To a quart of clams, add a pint of their liquor saved in 
the opening, three pints of water, half a. slice of bread, the 
size of a nutmeg of butter, three blades of mace, a few 
whole peppers and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover close 
and stew for three quarters of an hour ; then strain it off. 
Put toasted bread cut in dice into the tureen and pour the 
soup boiling upon it 

A. quarter of a pint of cream added in just before serv- 
ing, adds greatly to the richness. 

CkRAVIES. 

General Directions respecting Gravies. 
Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, 
and the kidney, as of any other meat prepared in the same 
, way. 

An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to 
pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so will the 



■ r ■ it- — ■* 



^t^t^M^A^ 



ORAVIES. 121 

shank-end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not 
wanted. 

The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to 
the richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour 
them clean. 

Taragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in 
high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be ad-, 
ded only a short time before serving. 

To dress. Qravy that will keep a week. 
' Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any 
butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does net 
burn : let it stay till all the gravy that comes out of the 
meat is dried up into it again ; put as much water as will 
cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the 
meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a 
bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool 
place. Don't take off the fat till going to be used. 

Clear Gravy. 

Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a very; clear quick 
fire, just enough to give colour to thegravy, but not to dress 
it : put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pant 
with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, ber- 
ries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover it with 
hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three 
times ; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. 

Brown Qravy, 
■ Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as 
will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veal with thin 
slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, some 
sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover 
the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the 
juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the 
meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef broth, 
boil and skim it, then simmer an hour : add a little water, 
mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick ; 
boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. 

White Sauce* 

Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of 

lean bacon or ham : put them into a stew-pan with a good 

piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom 

- buttons, and a bit of thyme ? fry the whole over a very 



1£2 DOMESTIC C90KEUF. 

slow fire, but not to brown it ; thicken it with flour ; thai* 
put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich cream ; letSt 
boil half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain it through 
a soup-strainer. 

A Gravy without Meat. 

Put a glass of small-beer, a glass of water, some peppes, 
salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoon- 
ful of walnut-pickle, or mushroom-ketchup, into a basin. 
Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is 
brown. Then turn all the above iuto a small tosscr with 
the onion, and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain 
it off for use, and when cold take off the fat. 

A rich Gravy. 

Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity 
wanted; slice onions thin, and flour both; fry them of » 
light pale brown, but don't on any account suffer them to 
get black: put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water 
4>n the browuing in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on 
the meat Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoury, 
a- small bit of marjoram, some mace, berries of allspice, 
whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of bam, or 
gammon of bacon* . Simmer til I you have extracted all the 
juices of the meat; and be sure to skim the moment it boi]% 
and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, ancho^ 
should be added. 

Gravy far a Fowl when there is no Meat to make it. 

Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; 
simmer them with a little b$ead browned, a slice of onion, 
a nit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and die 
liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half- 
wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the li- 
quor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and 
add a tea-spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, and it will be 
very good. 

Veal Gravy. 
• Make it as directed for brown gravy (page 121); $ut 
leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn 
very slowly ; and if for white dishes, don't let the meat 
brown. 

Gravy to maha Mutton eat Wee Venison. 
JPick a very stale woodcock or snipe, out' it to pieces- 



GRAVIES. 129 

» 

^but first take out the bag from the entrails), and simmer 
-*utn as much unseasoned meat-gravy as you will want* 
Strain it, and serve in the disb. 

Strong Fish-Gravy. 

Skia two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut and wash 

them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and put in* 

, to a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add a little 

-crust of bread toastecl brown, two blades of mace, some 

whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an an- 

chovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horse-radish. Cover 

close, and simmer ; add a bit of butter and flour, and boll 

with the above. 

Savoury Jelly, to put over Cold Pies* 
Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of 

„ veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton t or, if the pie 
be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and heads, added 
to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give 
consistence by cow-heel, or shanks of mutton. Put the 
meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon,, a faggot of different 
herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small fait of 

, lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, 

.. and the same of whole pepper, and three pinto of water, iu 
a stew-pot that shuts very close. 4s soon as it boils skim 
it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong; 
strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, 
and then to remove every particle of grease, lay a cleaa 
piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, If not 
clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two egg* 
(but don't add the sediment), and pour it through a nice 
sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling 
water, to prevent waste. 

Jelly to caver cold Fish. 
Clean a Trout, and put it into three quarts of water, 
with a calf's foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse radish, an 

. enioo, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of 
lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon* Strew it un 
til it will jelly; strain it off ; when cold remove every bit 
of fat : take it up from the sediment* and boil it with a 
glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece 
df lemon. BoiTVithout stirring; and after a few minutes) 

i 2 



124 DOMESTIC COOKKJtY. 

set it by to gland half an hour, and strain it through a baj& 
or sieve, with a cloth in it. Coyer the. fish i* it what*. 
cold. 



PART. V. 



SAUCES, &e.. 

A very good Sauce; especially to hide the 6a£ Odour tf 

Fowls* .3 

CUT the livers* slices of lemon in dice, scalded pais- 
ley, and hard eggs : and salt, and mix \hem with butter ; 
boil them up, and pour. over the fowls. 

This will do for roast rabbit 
White Smcefor Fricassee of Fotvls^ Rabbits, White Mea£. 

Fishy or Vegetables. . 

It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite 
sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small*- . 
The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit; or a little ? 
broth, that may be in the house : or the feet and necks of . 
chicken, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with 
a little of water any of these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some 
sliced onion, some white pepper-corns, a little pounded 
mace or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the 
flavour he good, then strain it, and add a little good creamy 
a piece of butter, and a little flour ; salt to your taste. A 
squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken off 
the fire, shaking it well. Toik of egg is often used in fri- 
oassee, but if yoi; have any Oream it is better; and the 
former is apt to curdle. 

Same for Wild Fowl. 

Simmer $ tear cupful of port wine, the same quantity erf 
good meatrgravy, a little shalof, a little pepper, salt, a 
grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes : put in 
a bit of butter, and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it 
through die birds. In general they are not stuffed as,tan% 
hut maybe done so if liked. 

Another for the same, or for Ducks. .. 

fiem* rich gravy fa tfce 4ggi - r cut the breast iutp sliV 



SAUCBS. 126 

cgs, but don't take them off; cut a lemon, apd put pepper 
and salt oo it ; then squeeze it oq the breast* aud pour a 
spooniul of gravy over btfore you help. 

An excellent Sauce for boiled Turkey. 

Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spooniul of flour, 
put to it a little water,, melt it, aud add near a quarter of a 
pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine* 
not washed ; set it over the firef and as it boils up, add a, 
large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a 
fine colour* put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tu- 
reen, and put sotne^alt and half a lemon: stir it >eli to 
hinder it from curdling. 

, Sauce for Fowl of any sort* 

Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a sour 
•range and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine 
as of gravy ; and pour it into the dish, or a boat. 
" * Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. 

Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled bard, 
an anchovy, two dessert-spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, ^ 
asbalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea-spoonful of mus~~ 
4ard. All should be pounded before the oil id added*. 
Then strain it Shalot»vinegar, instead of shaiot, eats well.< 
A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fowls, or Rabbits? 

Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub 
tiiem with salt, to take off the tender skin. Put them into 
a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace,, 
a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. 
Boil them up, and stir them till done; then pour it round 
the chickens, &c. Garnish with lemon. 

If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones, 
done white; with a little mushroom-powder with the 
cream, &c. 

Lemon White Sauce for boiled Fowls* 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint 
of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of thyme, and ten white 
pepper-corns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the te- 
non : then strain it ; and thicken it with a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in 
it Boil it up; then pour the juice, of the. lemon strained 
into it, stirring it weiL Dish the. chickens, and then mix. 
a little white gravy, quite hot, with the- cream,. b&t 4oi$ 
together : add salt to your taste/ 



\%i DOMESTIC COOKERY* 

• * 

Liver Sauce. 
Chop boiled-liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as direct- 
ed for lemon-sauce {page 128), with a very little pepper, 
and salt, and some parsley. 

Egg Sauce. 
Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces : then 
put them to melted butter. 

Onion Sauce. 
Peel the onions, and boil them tender: squeeze the 
water from them, then chop them, and add to them butter 
that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter 
directed, but with a little good milk instead of water: boil 
' it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag 
Or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with 
the onions makes them milder. 

Clear Shalot Sauce* 
Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled 
clear, and near half as mud* vinegar; season with pepper 
and salt : boil half an hour. 

Te make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are to be 

had. 
Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, and 
boM it tea minutes in some water. Use this water to melt 
the butter ; and throw into it a little boiled spinach min- 
ced, to look like parsley. 

Qreen Sauce, for green Geese, or Ducklings. 
Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white 
wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar, and a 
bit of butter. Boil them up. 

Bread Sauce. 
Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black pep- 
pers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the 
milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. 
In an hour put it into a saucepan, with a good piece oi but- 
ter mixed with a little flour : boil the whole up together, 
and serve. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. 
Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a 
saucepan warm, and thicken ft with the yolks of two eggs. ~ 
Make it quite hot, but do not boil it ; squeeze in the juice. 
oCfaalf a lemon, and strain it through a sieve* 



\ 



SAUCES. 127 

Sauce Rob art, for Rumps or Steaks. 

Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg,' into a saucepan, 
-set it overtite $re, and when browning, throw in a liand- 
fai of sliced onions cut small : fry them brown, but don't 
let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake tlie 
onions in it, and give it another fry ; then put four spoon- 
fuls of gravy, and some, pepper and salt, and boil it gently 
ten minutes; skjm off the fat ; add a tea-spoonful of made 
mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a le- 
mon; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They 
should be of a fine yellow brown, aud garnished with fried- 
parsley and lemon. 

A Sance^for hot or cold roast Beef. 

Grate, or scrape very line, some horse-radish, a little 
made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. 

Sauce for Fish Pies where cream is not ordered. 

Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vinegar, 
oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup;, boil them up with 
an anchovy ; strain, and pour it through a funnel into 
the pie after it is baked. 

" Another.— Cho\> an anchovy small, and boil it up with 
three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and 
a bit of batter and flour* 

Tomato Sauce^for hot or cold Meats. 

Put tomatas, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar j 
and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they 
are quite soft; then separate the skin from the pulp ; and 
mix this with capsicum vinegar, and a few cloves of garlic 
pounded, which must both be proportioned to the quantity 
of fruit Add powdered ginger, and salt to your taste. 
(Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne) may be used in- 
stead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small 
wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry. cool 
place. 

Apple Sauce> for Goose and roast Pork. 

Pare, core, and slice, some apples ; and put them in a 

stone jar, into a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Jf 

* 0ir a hearth, let a -spoonful or two of water be put in, to 

hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise 

ftiem to a mash) and put to them a piece of butter the size 



128 DOMESTIC COOKER?. 

of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it id a sauce* 
tureen. - 

Old Currant-Sauce for Venison. 

Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water a 
few minutes ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs* 
six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir 
it till the whole is smooth. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put 
them into melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over * 
boiled fowls. 

Carrier Sauce for Mutton: 

Chop six shalots fine; and boil them up with a gill of T 
gravy, a spoonful of vinegars-some pepper, and salt. Serve 
in a boat. 

Ham Sauce. 
- When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat clean 1 
from the bone, leaving out any rusty part : beat the meat" 
and the bone to a mash with a rolHng-pin ; put it into a 
sauce-pan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow 
fire ; and stir it all the time, or_ it will stick to the bottom. 
When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of 
sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy ; 
cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle Jire. When it' 
has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A s 
little of this is an improvement to all gravies. 

A very fine Fkh Sauce* 

Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port 
wine, a gill of Malaga, half a pint of fine walnut-ketchup, 
twelve anchovies and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill 
of walnut-pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four 
or five shalots, some Cayenne to taste, 4hree ounces fcf 
scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all gently, till the raw- 
ness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork 
them very close, and seal the top.. 

^furffor.— Chep twenty-four anchovies not washed, and 
ten shalots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-radish; - 
which, with ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced 
lemons* half a pint of anchovy liquor, a quart of good cider, 
and a pint of water, boil to a quart ; - then strain off; anil 



* SAVCES. 1^9 

wben cold, add three large spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, , 
and pat iato small bpttles well corked. 
~ Fish Sauce without Butter. 

: Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and 
half a pint of water (which mast not be hard), with an onion, 
half a handful of horse-radish/ and the following spices 
lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half 
a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite 
tender, chop it small witii two anchovies, and set the whole 
09 the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of 
ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, 
the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor 
by degrees with them, and when well mixed, set the sauce- 
pan over a gentle fire, keeping a basin in one hand, into 
which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce-pan 
over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Don't boil 
thepi, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thick- 
ness of melted butter. 

Another Fish Sauce. 
, Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and 
brown it; then put to it a pound of the best anchovies cut 
small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries 
of black pepper, and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot 
of sweet herbs (namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted 
marjoram^ and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish : 
on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and 
a half of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty 
minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use : 
the way of using it k, to boil some of it in the butter while 
melting. 

An excellent substitute for Caper Sauce. 

Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad colour, 
cut but dmtt chop it fine ; put it to melted butter, with a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil 
up and serve. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil H 
with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the 
mean time throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it 
off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, 
and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make 
&uce enough : but first rub a little flour with it 



130 • BOMHSMC C+OKEBY. 

Set then oyer the fire, and stir all the time ; and whefi. 
the butter has boiled ounce or 'wice, take them oil', aud 
keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it ; for if done 
too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little le- 
mon-juice, and serve. 

If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. 
Observe, the oysters will thL the sauce, so put butter 
accordingly. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Pound the spawn, and two anchovies; pour on them 
two spoonfuls of ^ravy ; strain all into some butter melted 
as will be hereafter directed ; then put in the meat of the. 
lobster, £,ive it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. 

Another way. — Leave out the anchovies and gravy ; 
and do it as above , either with or without a little salt and 
ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the 
lobster and salt only. , 

Shrimp Sauce. 

If the shrimps are not pickled at home, pour a little wa- 
ter over tbem to wash them ; put them to butter melted 
thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of 
a lemon. 

Anchovy Sauce: 

Chop one or two anchovies, without washing, put them 
to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stfr it 
over, the fire till it boils once or twice. When the ancho- 
vies are good, they will be dissolved; and the colour will 
be better than by the usual way. 

To melt Butter; which is rarely well done, though a very 

essential article. 

Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four 
ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a 
small sauce-pan, and two or three table-spoonfuls of hot 
water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk 
used instead of water, requires rather less butter, and 
looks whiter. 

Vingaret, for Cold Fowl, or Meat. 

Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, mix with salt, oil, and 
vinegar. Serve in a boat. 

Shalot Finegar. * - ^ 

Split six or eight shalots ; put then into a quart bottle* 



SAUCES. 131 

ipklfiUr it up with vinegar : stop it, and in a month it will 
be fit for use. 

Camp Vinegar. 

Slice a large bead of garlic ; and put it into a wide- 
mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea* 
spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut-ketchup, four ancho- 
vies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to 
give it the colour of lavender drops. Let it stand six 
weeks ; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bot- 
tles sealed up. 

Sugar Vinegar. 
. To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very 
coarsest sugar, .boil and skim thoroughly, then put one 
quart of cold water for every gallon of hot When cool y 
put it into a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days; 
then barrel, and set it in a place where the sun will lie on 
it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. Make in March, 
it will be ready in six months. 

When sufficiently sour it may be bottled, or may be 
used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet* 

Gooseberry Vinegar. 

Boil spring water; and when cold, put to every three 
quarto, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. 
iet them remain sixty hours, stirring often ; then strain 
through a hair bag, and to each- gallon of liquor' add a 
pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a 
toast and yeast ; cover the bung-hole with a tit of slate, 
&c. as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit, 
the stronger the vinegar* 

Cucumber Vinegar. 

Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers, and put them in 
a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large onionto 
sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoon- 
fuls of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea- 
spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days, give the 
whole a boil ; when cold, strain, and filtre the liquor, 
through paper. Keep in small bottles, to add to salad, or 
eat with meat. 
k Wine Vinegar. 

After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been strain- 
ed, lay it on a neap to heat, then to ever^ hundred- weight 

M 



132 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



put fifteen gallons of water — set the cask, and put yeast, 
drc. as before. 

As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and 
one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two 
might always be kept preparing, according to what suited. 
If the raisins' of wine were ready, that kind might be 
made; if a great plenty of gooseberries made them cheap, 
that sort ; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar — so that the 
cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. 

To make Mustard. 

Mix the best flour of mustard by degrees, with boiling 
water, to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth; 
add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar close covered, 
and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon ; 
which should be wiped daily round the edges. 
Another way for immediate use. 

Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite 
smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this 
way, is not bitter, and will keep well. 

A tea-spoonful of sugar, to half a pint of mustard, is a 
great improvement, and softens it 

Kitchen Pepper. 

Mix in the finest powder, one ounce of ginger ; of cinna- 
mon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an 
ouace each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it 
in a bottle — it is an agreeable addition to any brown sau- 
ces or soups. - ** 

Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, 

goes much farther than when used whole. It 1 must be 

, dried before pounded; and should be done in quantities 

that may be wanted in three or four months. Nutmeg need 

not be done — but the others should be kept in separate 

* bottles, with a little label on each. 

To dry mushrooms. 

Wipe them clean ; and of the large take out the brown, 
and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool 
oven, and keep them in paper bags, in a dry place. When 
used, simmer them in the gravy, and tbey will swell to » 
near their former size; to simmer them in their own li- 
quor till it dry up into them, shaking the pap, then drying 
on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, 
before made into powder. 



* V« I 1 1 



/ 



SAUCES. 13^ 

Tie down with bladder; and keep in a dry place, or ia 
paper. 

Mushroom Powder. 

Wash half a peck, of large mushrooms while quite fresh, 
and free them from grit and dirt ^ith flannel; scrape out 
the black part clean, and do not use any that/ are worm- 
eaten; put them into a stew-pan over the fire without 
water, with two large, onions, some cloves, a quarter of an 
ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in 
powder; simmer and shake them till all die liquor be 
dried up, but be careful they don't burn. Lay them on 
tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to 
beat to powder ; then put the powder in small bottles, cork- 
ed, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. 

A tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup 
or gravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just before 
serving, and one boil given to»it after it is put in. ' 

To choose Anchovies. 
x They are preserved in barrels and kegs, with bay salt; 
no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The 
best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; 
the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and 
have a fine smell. 

Essence of Anchovies. 

Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and without 
the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained, add 
them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gently till 
dissolved, which will be in a few minutes— when cold, 
strain and bottle it. 

To keep Anchovies when the liquor dries. 

Pour en them beef-brine. 

To make small Trout taste like Anchovies. 

Salt them well, and. let the salt drain from them. In 
twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but don't wash them. 
Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an 
ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal-prune], and 
half a tea-spoonful of cochineal; all in the finest powder. 
Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them 
in two stone jars.. Keep in a cold place, fastened down 
with a bladder. 

These are pleasant on bread and batter j but U* e $$ 
best for sauce, 



134 ^ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Forcemeat^ 
Whether in the form of stuffing-balls, or for patties, makes 
a considerable part of good cooking, by ibe flavour it 
imparts to whatsoever dish it is added to, if properly 
made. 

Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; 
but the following observations may be useful, and habit 
wilj soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. 

At many tables, where every thing else is well done, it 
is common to find very bad stuffing. 

According to what it is wanted for, should be the selec- - 
tion from the following list, observing that of the most pun- 
gent articles, least must be used. No one flavour should 
predominate greatly : yet, if several dishes be served the 
same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of 
the forcemeat, as well as of the gravies. It should be con- 
sistent enough to cut with aknife, but not dry and heavy, 

Forcemeat Ingredients. 
Cold fowl or veal. Oysters. 

Scraped ham. Anchovy. 

Fat bacon. Taragon- 

Beef-suet. Savory. 

Crumbs of bread. Penny-royal. 

Parsley. Knotted marjoram. 

White pepper. Thyme. 

Salt Basil. 

Nutmeg. . Yolks of bard eggs. 

Yolk and white of e«rgs Cayenne, 

well beaten, to bind Garlick. 

the mixture. Shalot. 

Chives. 

Jamaica pepper, in fine 
powder, or 2 or 3 cloves.; 
. The first column contains the articles of which tjie 
forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour ; and 
to those may be added some^of the different ingredients of" 
the second column, to vary the taste. 

Forcemeat, to force ForvUjor Meat. 
Shred a little ham, or gammon, some Cold veal or fowl, : 
some beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, 
rery little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and 
either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread crumbs* 



Pound it in a mortar, and bfod it wHlp. oaeor two e^ga 
beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture^ 
f? above. 

For cold Savoury Pies. 
T^e same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The 
livers (if the pie be of rabbit or fowl?), mixed wi$h fat aq$ 
lean of pork, instead of bacon, and seasoned as above, is 
excellent 

Very fine Forcemeat balls, for Fish Soups, 
or Fish 8teryed y on maigredqys. 
jjeat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half 
an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, tbe yolk of q. 
hard egg> a little Cayenne, mace, salt, ?nd wh$e pepper, 
with two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ditto of oyg? 
ter liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long 
beaten : make into balls, ?ud fry of a fine brown in butter. 

Forcemeat for Turtle. 
A pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready-dressed 
veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little 
shalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, penny* 
royal, parsley, and lemon thyme finely shred; beat as 
many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make 
the above ingredients into a moist paste; roll into small 
balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as 
it boils up* When of a light brown, take them out, and 
drain them before the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a 
great many more eggs will be necessary. 

Balls made this way are remarkably light ; but being 

jpeasy, some people prefer them With less suet and eggs. 

Little Eggs far real oruwcJc Turtle* 

Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make 

v into a papte with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into gmatj 

balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes t? 

jiarden. , 

Browning to colour and flavour made dishes. 
Beat to powder four ounces of double refined suga& 
put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce cf 
' Sftne fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and when it 
.begins to froth, hold it up higher; when of a very fine darj: 
brown, pour in a small quantity of * pint of port, and the 
whole by very slow degrees, stirring &U the time. £ut 

M2 



130 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

to the above half an ounce of Jamaica and the -same of 
black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of 
mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and* the same 
of walnut ketchup, some salt, ancf the finely-pared rind of 
a lemon ; boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin 
till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use. 

Rice Edging, for a Carrie, or Fricassee. 
After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in 
water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash ; 
drain,' and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the 
height of two inches ; smooth it with the back of a spoon, 
and wash it over with the yolk of egg, and put it into the 
oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the 
middle. 



PART FL 



PIES, PUDDINGS, and PASTRT. 

SAVOURY PIES. 

(Fruit Pies will be placed under the head pastry.) 
Observations on Savoury Pies. 

THERE are few articles of cookeiy more generally 
liked than relishing pies, if properly made ; and they may 
be made of so great a variety of things. Some are best 
eaten when cold, and in that case, there should be no suet 
put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie 
is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to 
make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will 
allow ; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form ; ob- 
serve the following preparation : 

Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for in- 
stance) that has faf and lean ; wash it; and season it with 
salt, pepper, mace, and' allspice, in fine powder, rubbing 
them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stew- 
pot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter, of 
about the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close ; 
let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. 
When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs; 



SAVOURY FIBS. 139 

r and if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking ; 
but if it is only in crust, don't put the gravy till after it is 
-cold and in jelly, as has been described in page 123. Force- 
meat may be put both under and over the meat, if prefer- 
red to balls. 

Eel Pie. 
Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season 
* - with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some bits 
of butter, and a little water; and cover it with paste. 

Cod Pie. 

Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it 

: well one night : next day wash it: season with pepper, 

- salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and 

put some butter on it, and a tittle good broth of any kind 

into the dish. 

Cover it with a crust; and when done, add a sauce of a 
spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour 
. and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one 
boil. Oysters may be added. 

Mackarel will do well, but do not salt them till used. 
Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oys. 
fers. 

Sole Pie. 

Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close ; 
: season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little iiutmeg and 
j . > pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They 

I eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, 

j and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oys- 

ter-liquor, two of three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter* 
When the pie cdmes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. 
I Shrimp Pie % excellent. 

Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season 
them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or 
■ three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then sea- 
son the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the 
. dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp white 
.-. wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not 
:• take long baking. 

Lobster Pie. 
Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut 
them in tvf o, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces and 




i 



189 DOMESTIC CQOKgRY. 

lay in a small dish, put in them the meat of the claws and 
feat you have picked oat of the body : pick off the furry, 
parts from the latter, and take out the lady ; the spawn 
beat in a 'mortar; likewise ail the. shells : set them on to 
stew with some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, ' 
pepper, salt, and some pounded mace ; a large piece of 
butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the goodness 
of the shells is obtained; give a boil or two, and pour into , 
the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste ove? 
all ; bake slowly, but only till the paste be done* 

A remarkably fine Fish Pie. 
Boil two pounds of small eels ; having c.ut the fins quite 
i^ose, pick the flesh of£ and throw the bones iuto the li- 
quor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion: 
boil till quite rich, and strain it* Make forcemeat of the 
flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and 
crumby and four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the 
bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or 
dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rub- 
bed U with salt and pepper : pour the gravy over, and bake. 
Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. 

Pilchard and Leek Pie. 
Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks : scald 
jn milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and 
between the layers, two or three salted pilchards which • 
have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover 
the whole with a good plain crust When the pie is taken 
out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a jtnife, and 
jtmpty out all the liquor; then pour in a half a pint of 
scalded cream. K 

Beef-steak Pie. 
Prepare the steaks as in page 56, amd when seasoned 
and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff 
paste round the edges ; put a little water jn the dish, anfl 
cover it with a good crust 

Feat Pie. 
Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a** small neck ; 
season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slicey of lean 
bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, 
Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also 
forcemeat and eggs; and if youchooje, add truffles^m,or« 



SAVorttY pies. 139 

eis, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits. Have a 
rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking. — It will be very 
good without any of the latter addition?. 

A rich Veal Pie. 

Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal, season them 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in pow- 
der. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same 
manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish ; then 
put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and 
.some oysters, up to the top of the dish. Lay over the 
whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the, dish 
with water; cover; and when it is taken out of the oven, 
pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of 
good veal -gravy, and some cream to fill up : but first 
boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, &c. if 
approved. 

Veal (or Chicken) and Parsley Pie. 

Cut some slicesfrom the leg or neck of veal $ if the leg, 
from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald 
some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze 
it dry : cut it a little, and lay H at the bottom of the dish ; 
then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish 
with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Co* 
ver it ; and when baked, pour out a little of ihe milk, and 
put in half a pint of good scalded cream. 

Chicken may be cut up, skinned, and made in the same 
way. 

Veal olive Pie. 

Make the olives as directed in page 69 : put them 
round and round the dish, making the middle highest* 
Fill it almost up wilfl water, and cover it. Add gravy* 
cream, and flour. 

Calf*s-head Pie. 

Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions 
a few isinglass-shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, 
and a few pepper-coros, in three pints of water. Keep 
the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the 
balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in 
the broth till it is very good. Half-boil the head, and Cut 
it in square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom > then 
some head, first fat then lean, with balls and hard eggs 






140 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

cut in half, and so on till the dish be fall : but be particu- 
larly careful not to place the pieces dose, or the pie will 
be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The, 
meat must be first pretty well seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water 
and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tot* 
erahly thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and when 
done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, 
and do not cut it till perfectly cold ; iu doing which ob- 
serve to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large 
bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; and when done 
thus, thinner slices can be put ; the different colours, and 
the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled appearance. 

A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high 
seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c. has a 
very good appearance^ 

* The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a 
pretty sidewdish. 

Instead of isinglass, use a calf s-foot, or a cow-heel, if 
the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. 

The pickled tongues of former calves'-beads may be cut 
in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. 
Excellent Pork Ptes, to eat cold. 

Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval 
form, as you choose ; have ready the trimming and small 
bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; and if these are 
not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone Beat it well 
with a rolling-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep 
the fat and lean separate. Put it in layers; quite close up 
to the top ; lay on the lid : cut the edge smooth round* 
and pinch it ; bake in a slow soaking oven, a$ the meat is 
very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given 
hereafter. The pork may be put into a common dish, with 
a very plain crust; and be quite as good. ■ Observe to 
put no bone or water into pork pie ; the outside of the 
pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed 
close. 

Mutton Pie* 

Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hung ; 
beat them,«and remove some of the fat Season with salt, 
pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water at the bottom 



SAVOURY PIES. 141 

<rf the dish, and a little paste on the edge ; then cover with 
afriouerately thiek paste. Or raise small pies, and break- 
ing each bone in two to shorten it, season, and cover it 
over, pinching the edge. When they come out, pour, into 
each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton. 

Squab Pie. 
. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with 
ttutton chops ; shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, 
and also some sugar. 

Leatob Pie. 

Make it of the loin, neck, or breast ; the breast of bouse 
lamb is one of the most delicate things that can be eaten. 
It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper and salt ; 
the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quan- 
tity of jelly gravy be put in hot ; but the pie should not be 
cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. 

Grass-lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be 
boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season 
with only pepper and salt; put two spoonfuls of water be- 
fore baking, and as much gravy when it comes front the 
oven. 

Note. — Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy 
on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at the centre, 
and a little may be added. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pepper, 
salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder ; 
likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of 
ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard 
eggs, by turns, in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, 
put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the 
time St returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of 
knuckle of v£al, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank- 
bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and 
white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot you~ may add 
truffles, morels, mushrooms, &c. but not if to be eateucold. 
If it is made in a dish, put aB much gravy as will fill it ; but 
in raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then 
put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may 
give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away 
the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. 



-- ■■*-* '^■VW a ****^'no ■ ■ i — -""i ■■ " - '" " ■ " "- - « — — •••«»-v*---i ■■» r~ ■*" T» 



142 DOMESTIC COOKftRY. 

Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well : their tegs 
should be cat short; and the breastbones must not go in, 
but will help to. make the gravy. 

Green-goose Pie. 

Bone two young green-geese, of a good size ; but first 
take away every plug, and singe Ihero nicely. Wash 
them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, 
and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as 
close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good 
deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or 
- without crust ; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit 
close to keep io the steam. It will keep long. 

Duck Pie? 
, Bone a full-grown young duck anoS a fowl ; wash them 
and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion- of 
mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl 
within the duck, apd in the former a calf's-tongue pick- 
led red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole 
close ; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, that 
the body of the fowls may be quite smooth.- If approved, 
the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with 
a fine forcemeat, made according to the second receipt 
given for making forcemeat in page 135. Bake it in a 
slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish, with a 
thick crust, ornamented. , 

Large pies are made as above ; but with a goose out- 
wards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl ; and either 
tongue, small birds, or forcemeat, in the middle* 

Qiblet Pie. ' 

After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew 
them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs, till neatly done. Let them 
grow cold; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, 
veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the 
. liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and when the 
pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. . 

Sliced potatoes added to it, eat extremely well. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and ouf; 
in the latter put a bit • of butter, and, if approved* some 
parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same 



, / 



SAVOinnr hes. 14S 

seasoning. Lay a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, and 
the birds on it; between every two, a hard egg. Put a 
cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the 
house, lay a bit 6n each pigeon : it is a great improvement 
to the flavour. 

Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the 
under part rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put 
them in the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole 
made in the crust, .three feet nicely cleaned, to show what 
pie it is. 

* Partridge Pie in a Disk. 

Pick and singe four partridges; cut off the legs at the 
knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, 
aod mushrooms. Lay a veal»steak, and a slice of ham at 
the bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a 
pint of good broth. Put puff-paste on the ledge of the dish, 
and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake 
an hour. 

Hare Pie, to e<& cold. 
Season the hare after it is cut up ; and bake it, with eggs 
and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be 
served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly gravy, as in 
page 1 23. 

A French Pie. 
Lay a puff-paste round on the ledge of the dish : and 
put id either veal in slices, or rabbits or chickens jointed; 
with forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke 
bottoms, and a few truffles. 

Vegetable Pie, 
Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut young car- 
rots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, 
lettuce, parsley, celery, or .any of them you have ; make 
the wfiole into a nice stew, with some good veal-gravy. 
Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the 
edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from) sinking. When 
baked, open the lid, and pour in the stew. 

Parsley Pie. 
Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, sea- 
soned, into a dish ; scald a colander-full of pickled parsley 



tl4 l>Ok£«ttC GOOKKRX* 

in milk: season it; and add it to the fowl or meat, with a 
tea-cupfutaf any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When 
it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scai& 
ed, with the size of a walnut of butter, and a bit of flows 
Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be add- 
ed to the parsley, and scalded before put in. 

Turnip Pie. 

Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, reserving the 
ends of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, which must 
be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. 

Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. Tou may 
add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. 

Potatoe Pie. 

Skin some potatoes, and cut them iota slices: season 
them; and also some mutton, best pork, or veal. Put 
layers of them 'and of the meat. 

An Herb Pie. 

Pick two bandfuls of parsley from the sterns^ half the 
quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cres- 
ses, a few leaves of borage, and white beet-leaves ; wash, 
and boil diem a little-; then drain, and press out the water t 
cut them small ; mir, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled 
with some salt Mix a batter of flour, two eggs well beat* 
en, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on 
flie herbs ; cover with a good crust, and bake. 

Raissd Crust for Meat Pies, or Fowls, &c. 

Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity 
of fresh dripping or of butter, but not much of either. 
While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, 
making the paste as stiff as you can, to be smooth, whkh 
you will make it by good kneading and heating it with the 
rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put in a lump into a cloth, 
or under a paw, to soak till near cold . 

Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do 
thus : RoU the paste of a proper thickness, and cutout the 
top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. 
Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the form- 
er father farther out, and pinching both together : put egg 
between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the 
sides* Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch it 



*> 



and the side crust together. The same mods of uniting the 
paste is to be* observed, if tbe sides are pressed into jel tin 
form, io which the paste must be baked, afterit-ahall be fill* 
ed and covered; but in die latter case, the tin should be 
buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough ; and 
as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than 
is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a 
quarter of an hour. With a feather, put egg over at first. 

puddings, &c. 
Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes* 

The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree* 
tbly ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely washed.* 
and kept in a dry phcce. It should be dipped in boilmg 
water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 
< If bread, it should be tied loose : if batter, tight over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is pot 
in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the in- 
gredients should not mis. 

Batter-padding should be strained through a coarse 
sieve, when ail is mixed. In others, the eggs separately. 

The pans and basins must be always buttered. 
*' A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pudding 
dipt ki as Boon as it comes out of the pot, and then it wilt not 
adhere to the cloth. 

V r ery good puddings may be made without eggs : but 
they must have as little milk as will mis, and must boil 
three or four hours*' A few spoonfuls of fresh small beef, 
or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs* 

Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in 
puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply 
the place of one cg^ and the article it is used in will be 
equally good. This is a useful piece of information, es- 
pecially as snow falls at the season when eggs are dear- 
est. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors, likewise 
serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from 
any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its 
virtue : though the sooner it is used the better. 

Note. — The.yolks and whites beaten long and separately 
make the article they are put into much lighter. 

Almond Puddings* 

Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds 
with a spoonful of water \ then mix four otmees of butter, 



J4tt DOMESTIC C60KKBY. 

ibur eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm 'with .the butter, 
one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to tafcte. Butter . 
some cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. 

Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding. 

Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter dit- 
to, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, jpeel of two lemons 
grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and 
juice of one lemon. "When well mixed, bake it half an hour, 
with paste round the dish. 

Small Almond Puddings. 

Pound eight ounces oi almonds, and a few bitter, with a 

spoonful of water; mix with four ounces of butter warm- 

- ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two 

spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well, and bake 

in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Sago Pudding. 

Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls 
of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix four eggs put a 
paste round the dish, and bake slowly. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Slice breaji spread with butter, and lay it in a dish with 
currants between each layer ; and sliced citron, orange, 
or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an unboiled cus- 
tard of milk two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a very 
little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked ; 
and lade it over to soak the bread. 

A Paste round the edge makes all puddings look bet- 
ter, but is not necessary. 

Orange Pudding. 

Grate the rind of a Seville orange : put to it six ounces 
of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump-sugar pound* 
ed : beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it 
the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained; scrape 
a raw apple, and mix with the rest ; # put a paste at the hot- ] 
torn and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put " 
cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bafce it. 

Another. Mix of orange paste two full spoons, with 
six eggs, four, of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and 
put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty 
minutee. 



wvvmx<*9. Ml 

Another. Bather moire than two table spoonfefe of tiie 
Orange paste, mixed with six egaa, four ounces of sugar* 
and four ounces of butter, melted,' will make a good sizeq 
pudding with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Bate 
twenty minutes* 

Ait excellent Lemon Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs; add four ounces of white 
Sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of 
it to take the essence; then peel* and beat it in a mortar 
with the joke of a large lentoo* and mix all with four ot 
five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust Into a shallow 
dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it* When 
Served, turn the pudding out of the dish* 

A very fine Amber Pudding. 

Put a pound of butter into a sauce-pan with three 
quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered; melt 
the butter, and mix Well with it ; then add die yolks of 
fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange 
as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to 
* fibe paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out {, 
and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as yoti 
would a pie, and bake in a slow oven* 

It is as good cold as hot. 

Baked Apple-Pudding. 

Pare and quarter four large apples; boil thep tender, 
.with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when dotie, 
none may remain : beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add 
the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the 
yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half aletAoo 
and sugar to taste; heat altogether* and lay it in a dish 
with paste to turn out. 

Oatmeal Pudding* 
' Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best 
fine oatmeal : let it soak all night ; next day beat two eggs, 
and mix a little salt; butter a basin that will just hold it : 
cover it tight with a flouted cloth, and boil it an hour and 
a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt.. 

When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oat cake 
tottered. • s 

Dutch Pudding, or Boaster* 

Kelt one pound of batter in half a pint of milk ; &*& 

si 



MESTIC COOKERY. 

f flour, eight eggs, four spoonfuls of 

I of currant*, and a quarter of a pound 

ifted. 

ad pudding hot ; and equally so as 

If lor the latter, caraways may be 

its. An hour will bate it in a quick 

f Rice Pudding. 

of rice in warm water half an hour ; 
it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with 
half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer 
ltd, add four whole eggs well beaten, 
melted in a tea-cupful of cream : and 
sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a 
leel. 

ste into a mould or dish, or grated 
1 bake in a quick oven, 
t Puddings or Puffs. 
i of butter in a pint of cream ; let it 
<1 : then mix two ounces of fine flour 
»r, four yolks and two whites of eggs, 
imuge-ftower water. Bake in little 
: hour. They should be served the 
ie, and only when going to be eaten, 
git. 
ups, and serve with white wine and 

'ie Bread Puddings. 

ifhalfasmall loaf grated, in about a 

when soaked, beat six eggs, whites 

nth the bread, and two ounces of bu> 

ange- flower water, a spoonful of brais- 

and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all 

i-cnps buttered. If currants are cbo- 

iooimI is sufficient : if not, they are 

iu may put : orange or lemon-candy. 

sauce. 

uddings iu hasle. 

nt with grated bread, a few .currants. 

n and the whites of two, some grated 

er. Mis; and make into little balls 

rape of an egg, with a little floury 



* . • PODDING*. )49 

" Have ready a skillet of bailing water, and throw them 
in*. Twenty minutes will boil them; but they will rise 
to the top when done. 

Pudding-sauce. 
> Princeton College Puddings* 

Grate the crumb of a small loa£ shred suet eight 
ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of 
citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a 
nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. 
Mix, and make into the size and shape of a goose egg. 
Put half a pound of butter into a frying-pan ; and when 
. melted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove ; 
larn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix 
a glass of brandy with the batter. 

Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. 

Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and cover 
close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and mix 
with it two or three eggs well beaten. 

Put it into a basin that will just hold it ; tie a floured 
sloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up 
with melted butter poured over. 
, It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 

Prune*, or French plums, make a fine pudding, instead 
of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. 
> Another and richer* — On half a pint of crumbs of bread, 
.pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat 
up four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread, with a 
tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of su- 
gar, half a pound, of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, 
with orange-flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto le- 
mon, ditto citron. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, 
Hoiir the cloth and tie light over, and boil one hour. 

Brown Bread Pudding. 

Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of cur- 
rants, ditto of shred suet, sugar and nutmeg ; mix with four 
eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonfuls of cream ; 
boil in a cloth or basin that exactjy holds it, three or four 
hours. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Staid three pints of new milk, stir into it one pint of fine 
Indian meal ; when cool, add salt, seven eggs, half a pound 



#56 DOMESTIC COOKER?. 

i 

of stoned raisins, four ounces of butter, fine whhetugar 
and spice to please, and bake in a tin pan or glazed dish* ' 
one hour and a half. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Take a pint of meal, add salt, wet it with one quart of 
new milk, sugar and spice ; put it into a strong cloth and '' 
boil fare hours. 

Eve's Pudding. 

Orate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it with 
the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, and al- 
so of currants ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and 
the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape; 
boil three hours; and serve with pudding-sauce, the juice 
of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. 

Quaking Pudding* 

Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, put to it four 
eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nut- 
megs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth ; boil it an 
hour ; and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. 
Melted butter* a little wine, and sugar. 

Cumberland Pudding. 

Jf ix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of 
currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beef-suet 
finely shred, the same of chopped apples, and also of tump- 
sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the rind ofa 
lemon minced as fine as possible ; and citron, orange, and 
lemon, atarge spoonful of each cut thin* Mix thoroughly, 
and put into a basin ; cover very close with floured clothe 
and boil three hours. Serve it with pudding-sauce, and, 
the juke of half a lemon, boiled together. 

Transparent Pudding. 

Bfeat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew-paiy 
with half a pound of sugarpounded fine, the same quantity 
of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and 
keep stirring it till it thickens. T hen set it into a bmm to 
«ool; put a rich puflfcpaste round the edge of the dish*, 
pour in your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It 
will cut light and clean. You may add candied orange 
and citron if you like. ;" 

Batftr Pudding; 

Hub three spoonftiis of fine flour extremely smooth by 
^tigrees kto a pintof mi]k ; simmer till it thickens * stirm 



PUDDINGS. 151 

two ounces of butter ; set it to cool ; then add the yolks 
of three eggs : flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a 
basin, and put the batter into it ; tie it tight, and plunge it 
into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour 
and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a 
little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel, may be added* 
Serve with sweet sauce. 

Batter Pudding with Meat. 

Make a batter with (lour, milk, and eggs ; pour a little 
into the bottom of a pudding-dish ; then put seasoned meat 
of any kind into it, and a little shred onion ; pour the re- 
mainder of the batter over, and bake in a slow oven. 

Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first 
cleared of most of the fat. 

Rice small Puddings. 

Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with 
half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of 
butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one 
boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs, 
well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; and add grated 
lemon, and a little cinnamon. 

Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at 
bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an 
hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be 
eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish or a boat. 

Plain Rice Pudding. 

Wash and pick some rice ,• throw among it some pimen- 
to -finely pounded, but not much ; tie the rice in a cloth, and 
leave plenty <Jf room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity 
of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with but- 
ter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. 

It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and 
butter. 

A rick Rice Pudding. 
. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, 
till quite tender ; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolk* and 
whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of creairi, with two 
ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of 
beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, 
finely shred, three quarters of a pound of currants, two 
spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water or ratifia, nutmeg. 



liiHAV 



152 



DOMESTIC COOKERY* 



nd grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a paste' 
round tht edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, 
lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven; 

Rice Pudding nrith Fruit. 

Swell tiie rice with a very little milk over the fire ; then 
mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries scald* 
ed, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) | 
with one egg into the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve 
with sugar. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 

Swell rice as above : then add some more milk, an egg, 
sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. 

AnotJierfor the family. — Put into a very deep pan half 
a pound of rice washed and picked ;. two ounces of butter, 
four ounces of sugar, a few $Uspice pounded, and tw* 
quarts of milk. Less batter will do, or some su«ft. Bake 
in a slow oven. 

Pumpkin Pudding. 

Take one quart of stewed and strained pumpkin, add 
nine beaten eggs, three pints of cream, sugar, mace, nut* 
meg, and ginger in powder ; bake id dishes three quarters 
*f an hour. 

An Apple Pudding. 

Bod very tender a handful of small rice in a small 
quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Letifc 
drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boil- 
ed to pulp as dry as possible; add a glass of white Wine, 
the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of orange and citron tut 
thin ; make it pretty sweet. Line a mold or basin with a 
very good paste $ beat the five whites of the eggs to a veiy 
strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients; fill the 
mold, and bake it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with 
the bottom upward with the following sauce : two glasses 
of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
bit of butter as large as a walnut ; simmer without boiling, 
and pour to and from the saucepan, till of a proper thick- 
nesn ; and put in the dish. 

An excellent plain Potaioe Pudding. ^ 

Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of hot- 
ter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint 
eff cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt ttoe 
<f and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; sugar to tastk.. 



4 crust or not as you like. Bafce.it. If wanted richer, 
put three ounces more butter, sweet-meats and almonds, 
a$d another egg. 

Potatoe Pudding with Meat, 
, Boil them till fit to mash; rub through a colander, and 
lqake into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. Lay 
some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter; and over 
t&e last layer pour the remainder of the batter. Bake a 
fine brown. 

Steak er Kidney 'Pudding* 

Jf kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. 
Make a paste of suet, flour and milk; roll it, and line a 
basin with some ; put the kidney or steaks in cover with 
paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and 
igpil a considerable time. 

Beefsteak Pudding* 

Prepare some fine steaks as in page 56 ; roll them with 
fat between; and if you approve shred onion, add a very 
little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in tiie rol- 
lers of steaks; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the 
edges to keep the gravy in* Cover with a cloth tied close 
and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. 

Baked Beefsteak Pudding. 

Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is 
•much better, potatoes boiled aud mashed through a colan- 
der; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish; then put in 
the steaks prepared as above and very well seasoned; 
pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it 

Mutton Pudding. 

Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; lay one lay- 
er of steaks at the bottom of the dish; and pour a batter of 
potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mix- 
ed with milk and an egg, over them; then putting the rest 
-of .the steaks, and batter, bake it. 

Batter with flour* instead of potatoes, eat w-ell, bat ue- 
quires more egg 9 and is not so good. 

Another.— Cut slices off a leg that has been underdone* 
and put them into a basin lined with a flee suet crust. 
Season with pepper, salt, and finely-shred onion or sbalot 

. $Wi pudding. 

Shi$d a pound of suet : mix with a pound and a quar- 
ter of flour* two egg* tm&teB wpw^ly, a little salt, and 



1&4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats 
well next day, cut in slices and broiled. 

The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred 
makes a more delicate pudding than suet 

Veal-suet Pudding* 

Cut the crumb of a small loaf into slices ; boil and sweet- 
en two quarts of new milk, and pour over it When soak- 
ed, pour out a little of the milk ; and mix with six eggs 
well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread 
into a dish ; with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, 
a pound of each. Butter the dish well, and bake ; or you 
may boil it in a basin, if you prefer it. v 

Hunter's Pudding. 

Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto 
raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon 
shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine 
powder, four eggs , a glass of brandy, a little salt, and 
as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence ; boil 
it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. 
Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of 
peach- water for change of flavour. 

This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, six months, 
if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a 
sheet of cap-paper to preserve it from dust, being first cold. 
When to be used, it must boil a full hour. 

Common Plum Pudding. 

The same proportion^ of flour and suet, and half the 
quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, 
and one egg and milk, will make an excellent pudding, if 
long boiled. 

Custard Pudding. 

Mix by degrees, a pint of go*d mifk with a large spoon- 
ful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, some orange-flower wa- 
ter, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that 
will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured 
cloth over. Put in boiling water over the fire, and turn it 
about a few minutes to prevent the egg going to one side. 
Half an hour will boil it. 
• Put currant-jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. 

. Macaroni Pudding. 
. Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort, in a piut of 
mukj and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender: put it 



SUPDINGS, 155 

/into a dish, with milk, two pr thre* pgg*>Mt %v\y oue 
white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of rose-water," and bajf a 
glass of wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. 

A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry jani, in a 
macaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement. 

Carrot Pudding. 

Boil a large carrot tenders then bruise it in a marble 
mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powder, or 
three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolk* 
and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scald- 
ed, a little cordial or brandy, a large spoonful of orange or 
rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of su- 
gar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste j .and 
turn it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted over. 
An excellent Apricot Pudding. 

Have twelve large apricots, give them * scald till they 
are soft; mean time pour on the grated crumbs of half a 
small loafc a pint of boiling cream ; when hajf cold, four 
ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass 
of white wine. Pqund the apricots in a jnortar, with some 
or all of the kernels 5 mix then the fruit and other ingre- 
dients together; put a paste round the dish, and bake the 
pudding half an hour. 

Baked Gooseberry Pudding. 

Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a 
sauce-pan of water till they will pulp. * Take a pint of 
tiie juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with 
three yolks and whites of eggs beaten a#d strained, one 
oupce and a half of butter ; sweeten it well, and put a crust 
round the dish. A few crumbs of roll should be mixed 
with the above to give a little consistence, or lour ounce? 
of Naples biscuits. 

A Green-bean Pudding. 

Boil and blanch old beans, be.at them ipa mortar, wiDi. 
very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk oJFan 
egg. A little spinach juice will give a finer colour, but it 
is as good without Boil it in a basin that will just hold it 
an hour : and pour parsley and. butter pv-er. 

Serve bacon to eat with it. 

Plum Pudding. 

Mix three quarters of : a pound of rajyajos^ pne jjoujkI # 



156 DOMESTIC COOKKRT. 

suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some* 
lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-shape six 

houra. 

Brandy Pudding. 

Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, 
then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ma- 
caroons; then the fruit, rolls, and cakes in succession, un- 
til the mould be full ; sprinkling in at times two glasses of 
brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites; put to a pint of 
milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the 
rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink 
into the solid part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight oyer, and 
boil one hour ; keep the mould the right side up. Serve 
with pudding-sauce. . 

Buttermilk Pudding. 

Warm three quarts of new milk; turn it with a quart of 
tnittermilk ; drain the curd through a sieve : when dry, 
pound in a marble mortar, with near half a pound of su- 
gar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a 
nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm but- 
ter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites 
of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. 

When well incorporated, bake in small cups or bowls 
well buttered; if the bottom be not brown, use a salaman- 
der ; but serve as quick as possible, and with pudding- 
sauce. 

Curd Puddings, or Puffs. 

Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey froin 
It, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the 
crumb of half a small loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, and half 
a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, ami two spoonfuls of 
white wine. Butter little cups, or small patty-pans, and 
fill them three parts. Orange-flower water is an improve- 
ment Bake them with care. 

Serve with sweet sauce in a boat 

Boiled Curd Pudding. 

Rub the curd of two gallons of milk well drained through 
a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoon- 
fuls of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and 
crumbs of bread each three spoonfuls, currants and raisins 
half a pound of each* Boil an hour in a thick well-flour- 
ed cloth* 



ptuxDnras. lit 

•k 
Pippin Pudding. 

Coddle six pippins in vine-leaves covered with water, 
very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the 
skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon tate the 
pulp from the core. Press it through a colander ; add two 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass 
of wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste* 
Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish : 
shred veiy thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it 
into the dish; likwise lemon, orange, and citron, in small 
slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Mix five spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk, and 
three eggs well beaten. , Butter the pan. When brown 
by baking upder the meat turn the other side upwards, 
and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and 
cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing- 
dish at first, and stir it some minutes. 

A quick made Pudding. 

Flour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quarter 
of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quartes 
of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well, and boil 
three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or 
it will require longer. 

/ Ground rice Pudding* 

Boil a large spoonful heaped, in a pint of new milk, with 
lemon peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nut- 
meg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round 
the dish. 

A Welch Pudding. 

Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with it 
the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, mix in six oun- 
ces of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a 
paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, 
and nicely bake it. 

Dumplings. 

Of grated bread two ounces, currants and shred suet 
four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a great 
deal of grafed lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimen- 
to n fine powder. Mix with two eggs and a little, milk 
in to. five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made, 



f'5fr mms: me cookery. 

with flour instead of bread, but Italf the quantity, they are 
etfceltent. 
' SerVd irfttr sweet sauce. 

Suet Dumplings. * 

1 Make as pudding (pdge 153); and drop into boiling 
water, or into boiling of beef : or you may boil them in a 
cfoth. 

Jppk) Currant, at Damson Dumplings, or Puddings. 

Make as above, and line a basin with the paste tolerably 
thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it ; tie a cloth over tight, 
and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but 
with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it rise an 
hour before the fire. 

Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a 
Targe stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough into balls* 
the size of a middling apple ; throw them in and boit twenty 
minutes. If you doubt when done enough, stick a clean 
fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. 

The war io eat them is to tear them apart on the top 
with two forks, for they become heavy by their own 
steam. Eat immediately with meat, of sugar and butter, 

or salt. 

A Charlotte. 

Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover 
the bottom and Hoe the sides of a baking dish, but first rub 
it thick with batter. Put apples, in thin slices, into the 
dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between, and bits 
of butter. In the mean time, soak as many thin slices of 
bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over which 
lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the ap- 
ples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling sized'* 
dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. 

Common Pancakes. 

Make a light batter of eggs, flour and milk. Fry ur 
a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg, and ' 
ginger, may be added. 

Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. 
Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter, with flour, 
and small beer* ginger, &e. or clean snow, with flour and 
a very little milk, will serve as well as egg, 



-""»■«- 



f 

( J$ne Pancakes fried, without Butter or Lard, 

Beat six fresh eggs extremely well; mix wheftstraitffcd, 
with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, 
half a nutmeg grated, a&d as much Hour as will make it al* 
most as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite* 
Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean 
cloth ; then pout in th* batter, to make thin pancakes. 

Pancakes yfRiee* 

Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quantity 
rf water ; when cold, mix it with a pint of create* eight eggs* 
a bit of salt and nutmeg : stir in eight ounces of butter just 
warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter 
thick enough. Fry in as little lard ©* dripping as pos- 
sible. 

Irish Pancake*. 

Beat eight yolks and four whites of feggs, &v%m them 
into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your 
taste ; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, 
and as it warms peter it to the cream, which should be 
warm when the eggs are put to it; then mix smooth al- 
most half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes vfery thin? 
the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. 

Serve several, on one another. 

New-England Pancakes. 

Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven 
yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt: fry 
them very thin in fresh butter, and between each stre* 
sugar and cinnamon. Send up six 07 eight at once. 

Fritters. 

Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes, 
by dropping a small quantity into the pah : or make the 
plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored into 
the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants 
or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make ail agreeable change. 
— Fritters for company should be served on a folded nap* 
kin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, of ripe fruit, may 
be made into fritters. 

Spanish Frkters. 

Cut the cram of a French roll into length*, as thick as 
your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, 
nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When 

02 



169 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

well soaked, fry of a nice brown; and serve with butter, 
wine, and sugar-sauce. 

Potatoe Fritters. 
. JBoil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat four 
yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the. above one 
large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze • 
of a lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half mv 
hour at least It will be extremely light Put a good - 
quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful oi : 
the batter at a time into it. Fry them and serve as a sauce, 
a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one desert- 
spoonful of peach-leaf or almond-water, and some white su« 
gar warmed together: not to be served in the dish. r 

Another way. — Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine 
batter and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted over them; 
Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, should, 
be added to the batter. 

Buckwheat Pancakes. 

Mix three ounces of buckwheat flour, with a teacupfut 
of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before* 
the fire about an hour ; then mix four eggs well beaten^, 
and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thick* 
^ess for pancakes, and fry them the same* 

PASTRY* 

Mich Puff Paste. 

Puffe may be made of any sort of frtyii, but it should bo- 
prepared first with sugar. 

Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fins 
flour as you judge necessary ; mix a little of the former 
with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make 
into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and put all the butter ove* 
it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin ; do this twice* 
and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter 
may be added at twice; and to those who are not accuse 
tomed to make paste it may be better to do so* 

A quicker oven than for short crust. . 

A less rich Paste. 

Weigh a pound of Hour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a lit- 
tle water, and an egg well beaten— of the former as little 
as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Boll, and fold 
& ftree or four times. 



PASTRY. 161 

Eub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six oun- 
ces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar; work up the 
whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. 

Crust for Venison Pasty. 

To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and 
a half of butter, and four eggs; mix into paste with warm 
water and work it smooth and to a good consistence. Put 
a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, 
and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continu- 
ance in the oven. 

Rice Paste for Sweets. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest 
quantity of water : strain from it all the moisture as well 
as you can ; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of but- 
ter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent 
paste for tarts, &c. 

Bice Paste for relishing things. 

Clean, and put some rice, with an onion and a little 
water, and milk, or milk only, into a sauce-pan, and sim- 
mer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and 
cover it with the rice ; by the addition of an egg, the rice 
will adhere better. 

Rabbits fricasseed^ and covered thus are very good. 

Potatoe Paste. 

Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, 
a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together,, or 
you may mix with it an egg; then before it gets cold, flour 
the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll 
it to the thickness wanted. 

If it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, 
it will be apt to crack. 

Raised crust for Custards or Fruit. 
- Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan with water, 
and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose ; 
knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it, as at page 1 44. 
Raise it ; and if for custard, put a paper within to keep 
out the sides till half done, then fill with a cold mixture of 
milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-water, lemon-peel, or 
nutmeg. By cold is meant that the egg is not to be warm- 
ed, but the milk should be warmed by itself — not to spofl 
the crust, 



16£ DOMESTIC COOKBRY. 

• 

The above butter will make a great deal of raised crest, 
which must not be rich, or it will be difficult to prevent thfe 
sides from falling. 

Excellent short Crust. 

Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, 
quite dry : then mix it with a pound of flour well dried: 
rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen, 
— into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beaten, and 
mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. 

Another. — Mix with a pound of fine flour, dried, an 
ounce of sugar pounded and sifted ; then crumble three 
ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and, with 
a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste.' 

Another y not sweet, but rich. — Rub six ounces of butter 
in eight ounces of fine flpur ; mix it into a stiffen paste* 
with as little water as possible ; beat it well, and A>11 it thin* 
This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or 
preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. 
A very fine Crust for Orange cheesecakes, or Sweetmeats, ' 

when to be particularly nice. 

Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it three out*-., 
ces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of butter with 
y6ur hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by de- 
grees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks 
of three, and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some 
flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty- 
pans and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake 
them. Against they come out, have ready some refined 
sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you 
can ; ice them all over, set them in tho oven to harden, 
and serve cold. Use fresh butter. 

Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust ; but if for. 
mince-pies* or any sweet things, should be washed. 

Observations on Pastry. 

An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adhering '. 
to the board, or dish, used in making. It is best when 
rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot 
weather, the butter should be put into cold water to make 
it as firm as possible; and if made early in the morning, 
and preserved from the air until it is to be baked^ the cook 



PASVR1T. 1*03 

will find it much better^ A good hand at pastry will use 
muth less butter, and ptoduce lighter crust than others. 
Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine 
flaky crust. . 

" Remark on using preserved Fruits in Pastry '. 

Preserved fruits should not be baked long; those that 
have been done with their full proportion of sugar, require 
no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and 
the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a 
small dish, or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin 
cut out according to your taste. 

Apple Pie. 
'fare and core the fruit, having wiped < he outside; 
which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it tastes 
Weil : strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of bruised 
cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place the v 
apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge ; when 
one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon* 
peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider. If the 
apples have lost f heir spirit, put in the rest of the apples, 
sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. Cover 
with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eat* 
en hot ; or put quince-marmalade, orange-paste or cloves* 
to flavour. 

Hat Apple Pie. — Make with the fruit, sugar, and a 
clove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. 

Cherry Pie 
Should have a mixture of other fruit; currants or rasp- 
berries, or both. 

Mince Pie. 

Of scraped beef free from skinaud strings, weigh 21b. 
41b. of suet picked and chopped, then add 61b. of currants 
nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, 31b. of chopped apples, 
the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a 
nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto 
pimento, in finest powper ; press the whole into a deep pan 
when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool 
place. 

-Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large 
family. 

Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put 
some of each in the pies when made., 



164 DOMESTIC COOKERY* 

Mince Pies without Meat. 

Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and rain* 
ced; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds, 
likewise minced : to these add of mace and cinnamon* a 
quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest pow- 
der, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quar- 
ters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two 
lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well 
and put into a deep pan. 

Have ready washed and dried four pounds of currant^ 
and add as you make the pies, with candied fruit, 

hemon Mince Pies. 

Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender 
enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chop* 
ped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four 
ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and candied 
fruit, as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the 
patty pans as usual. 

Mgg Mince Pies, 

Boil six eggs hard, shred them small : shred double the 
quantity of suet ; then put currants washed and picked, 
one pound, or more, if the eggs are large ; the peel of 
one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of 
sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt ; orange, 
lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. 
, Currant and Raspberry. 

For a tart, line the dish, put sugar, and fruit, lay bars 
across, and bake. 

Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes. 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it 
with as much water as will make three quarters of a pound 
of fine flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it very thin, then 
lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon it in 
little bits ; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and 
roll it up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same pro- 
portion of butter ; and so proceed till all be worked up. 

Iceing for Tarts. 

Beat the yolks of an egg and some melted butter well to. 
gether, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over 
as you put them in the oven. Or beat while of egg, wash 
the paste, and sift white sugar* 



4*1 



PASTRY. . 165 

Pippin Tarts. 
Pare thia two oranges, boil the peel tender, an* 1 shred 
it fine ; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew- 

Ean, and as little water as possible ; when half done, add 
alf a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till 
pretty thick. When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or pat- 
typans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 

Prune Tart. 

Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break 
them ; put the kernels into a little cramberr) juice, with 
the prunes and sugar; simmer; and when cold make a 
tart of the sweetmeat 

Orange Tart. 

Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville' oranges tender, 
weigh them, and double of sugar : beat both together to 
a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and 
the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. 
Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff-crust, 
and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. 

Apple Tart. 

Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article ; 
when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole 
in a dish, put a little of the water that the apples were boil- 
ed in at bottom, strew them over with lump sugar or fine 
Havanna ; when cold, put a paste round the edges and 
over. 

You may wet it with white of egg^ and strew* sugar 
over, which looks well : or cut the lid in quarters, without 
touching the paste on the edge of the dish ; and either put 
the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or 
remove the lid altogether. Pour a good custard over it 
when cold; sift sugar over. 

Or line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the 
apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in 
bars. 

Raspberry Tart with Cream. 

Roll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a patty-pan 
of what size you choose ; put in raspberries ; strew over 
them fine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. 
Cut it open, and have ready the following mixture warm : 
half a pint of cream the yolks of two or three eggs well 



J £6 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

beaten, and a little sugar; and when ibis is added to the 
tart, return it to the oven for five or sj& minutes. , 

Orange Tori. 

Line a tart pan with thin puffyaste ;. put into it orange 
.marmalade that is made with apple-jelly : Jay bars of paste 
over, aud bake in a moderate oven. r 

Fried Patties. ^ 

Mince a bit of cold veal, ,and six oysters, mix with r a 
Jew crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very 
small bit of lemon-peel — add the liquor of the oyster$; 
warm all in a tosser, but don't boil ; let it go cold ; have 
ready a good puff-paste, roll thin, and cut it in rojjtnd or 
square bits; put some of the. above between two of them,twist 
the edges to keep in the gravy,and fry them of a fine brown. 

This is a very good thing; and baked, is a fashionable 
dish. 

Wash all patties over with egg before baking. 

Oyster Patties, 

Put ja fine puff^paste into small patty-pans, and covej 
with paste, with a bit of toast in each ; and against . they 
are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking 
out the. beard. Take off the beards el the oysters, cut the 
other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, wttb,a 
grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt* a morsel 
of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a 
little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer .a 
few minutes before you fill. 

Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep 
them hollow while baking. 

Oyster Patties, or small Pie. 

Open the oysters, separate them from theJiquor, wftjcji 
strain ; parboil them, after taking off the beards. FAdKpl 
sweetbreads, and cutting them in slices, lay them pod the 
oysters in layers, season very lightly with salt, pepper, 
and mace. 'Then put half a tea-cup of liquor, and the 
same of gravy. Bake in a allow oven ; and before you 
serve, put a tea-cup of cream, a . littte more Oy,ster-U<jupr, 
and a cup of white gravy all warmed, but not boUed^ If 
for patties, the oysters should be cut in small dice, gently 
stewed and seasoned as above, .and fait into the paste w^eja 
mdy for table. 



ai&— ^Mfca* gin ■ i mi *^Mm*t 



■ *■■■■ »■'■» ■■■-^»^^~- «.t»#Tj - ^ ? "■"iT *"^ ~ ^« ' «'" 



r 

'' Lobstet Putties. 

Make. 'with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the 
smallest bit of butter. , 

BeefPatties. 
Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season 
with pepper, salt and a littfe shalot or onion. Make a 
plain paste, roll it thin, and cut in shape like an apple punt 
Ml it -with mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice 
brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity 
of butter, egg, and milk. 

Veal Patties. 
Mince some veal that is not quite done with a little par- 
sley, lemon-peel, a scrape of 'nutmeg, and a bit ofsalt; add 
a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat ; and if 
yon have any ham, scrape a little, and add to it. Don't 
warm it till the patties are baked. 

Turkey Patties. 
Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, 
nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very 
little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. 

Sweet Patties. 
' Chop the meat of a boiled calfs foot, of which you 
use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange 
and lemon peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; 
mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, 
a spoonful of brandy, and lour ounces of currants washed 
and dried. 
Bake in small pattypans. 

Patties resembling Mince Pies. 
Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, 
and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little Vine, 
two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. 
Sake as before. 

Apple Pttffs. 
Fare the fruit, and either stew diem in a stone jar on a 
tjot hearth, or bake them. When coid, mix the pulp of 
the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred fine, taking as 
little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin 
\>&te, in a quick oyen ; a quarter of an hour will do them, 
if imalL Orange or quince-marmalade, is a great improve- 

P 



iSt ©OMIStiC COOftSBV. 

* 

ment Cinnamon pounded, or oiaflge4tower water, in 



Lemon Puffs. " *« 

Beat and sift a pound aad a quarter of double refined 
sugar ; gipte the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well 
-with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid 
eggs a great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and 
beat it lor an hour : make it up in any shape you please, 
and bake it on paper put on tin plates, in a moderate oven. 
Don't remove the paper till eold. Oiling the paper will 
make it come off with ease. 

Cheese Puffs, 

Strain cheese-curd from the whey* and beat half a pint . 
basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of 
flour, three eggt, but only one white, a spoonful of 
orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to 
make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small 
rery round cakes* on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a 
quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding- 
sauce. 

Excellent light Puffs. 

Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, 
some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf-sugar, . 
and one egg; then fry it enough* but not brown ; beat it in . 
a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity 
of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, drop a dessert- 
spoonful of batter at a time : turn as they brown. Serve 
them immediately, with sweet-sauce. 

To prepare Venison for Pasty* 

Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, law 
it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain 
drawn beef gravy, but not a strong one* lay the bones oa 
the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, a sauce-pan 
of water over the five, simmer three or four hours— then 
leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake 
of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not 
sufficiently seasoned, add mote pepper, salt, or pimento qs 
necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remain-: 
der for the time of serving. If the .venison be thus pre- 
pared, it will uot require so much time to bake, or such a 
very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under pari 
is seldom done through* 



"•¥&-» •■ — ■■ ■ m , .-— — v»- • — «--— y»» - - •«• -— * - -.._.- .„_ ag^f 



JtASTRY. 169 

" ! ' ■- * Venison Pasty. 

A shoulder booed makes a good pasty, but it must be 
Mateo and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that 
of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours 
in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port 
, The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage im 
rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to 
tie used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. 

A mistake prevails that venison could not be baited too 
much : but as above directed, three or four hours in a slow 
oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour 
will be preserved. Either in' shoulder or side, the meat 
must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it 
tnay be proportioned to each person, without breaking up 
the pasty to find it Lay some pepper and salt at the bot- 
tom of the dish, and some butter ; then the meat nicely 
packed that it may be sufficently done, but not He hollow 
'to harden at the edges. 

The venison boned should be boiled with some fine old 
mutton— of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish ; 
then lay butter oo the venison; and cover as well as line 
"the sides with a thick crust, but don't put one under the 
tneat. keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty 
comes from the oven; put it into the middle by a funnel, 
quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be 
seasoned with pepper and' salt 
To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as mett as 

Venison. 
- Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of bee!, or a fat 
loin of mutton, after banging several days. Beat' it very 
well with a rolling pin; then rub ten pounds of meat with 
four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and 
the same of vinegar. Let it lie live days and nights^; 
wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season itvery high 
with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt Lay it 
in ypgr dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or oear of 
butter, spreading it over the meat Put a crust round 
the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be over- 
done before the meat be soaked — it must be done in a slow 
dven. 

Set the bones in a pau fn the oven, with no more watet 
than will cover them, and one glass of port and a little. 



ITO MJKSTH 490HBY. 

•pepper and Bah, that you may have a little neh gravy 't}> 
add to the pasty when draws. . 

N&U* — Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better fla- 
vour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which hat- 
deui — and it is quite as great a preservative. 

Potatoe Pasty. 

Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible; mi^c 
'then with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a 
paste ; roll it out thin like a large puft and put in the po- 
tatoe ; fold over one half, pinching the edgeB. • Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Cheap and Exctllatt Custards. 

Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, a 
bit of cinnamon, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down 
smooth a large spoonful of rice-flour into a cup of cold 
milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take 
a basin of the boiling niUk, and mix with the cold, and 
then pour that to the boiling ; stirring it one way till it be- 
gins to tfoicketi, and is just going to boil up ; then pour It 
.into a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoouful ofpeactK 
water, two tea-spoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratifia. 

Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to burg* 
will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it fro^M 
patching. 

Rich Custard. 

Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix 
a> pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well -beaten; 
when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough 
for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well ; 
then give the custard a simmer till of a propet thickness* 
Don't let it boil; stir the whole time oneway; season as 
above, if to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart 
of cream to the eggs. 

Baked Custard* 

Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk; with mace, 
cinnamon, and lemon-pee), a little of each. When cold, 
mix the yolks of three eggs ; sweeten, and make* your 
cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. 

Lemon Custard. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white a$ 
.rnilk^ then put to them a pint of boiling water, tho rind; 



/ 



P»w«nT^|r«->T»nw *■■ ^W" 



£f two taMMi* gnfted, 9*4 the Juice «**ttettelt6 ywi* 
tasfe. ©tir it od the fire till thick enough; then add * 
large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy ) gltfc 
*thfe whole obe scald, and put in cups to be eaten eojtd. 

Ahnond Custard. 
- Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine wMb % 
spoonful of watery beat a pint of cream with two spooolulfr 
of rose-water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and 
$s flinch sugar as will make it pretty s\reet $ then add the 
almond; stir it all ovter a slow fi*e till it is of a prop** 
Sickness ; but don't boil. Pour It into cwps. 

Cheesecakes. 

Strain the whey frojn the curd of two quarts of milk j 
tyrhen rather dry, crumi le it through a fcoarse sieve, and 
mix with she ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded 
blanched almonds, a little orange*flowfer water, half a glass 
of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants* 
some nutmeg, and cinnamon, in fine powder, and beat all 
the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, titt 
quite light : then fill the pattypans three parts full* 

A plainer sort. 

Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain 
the whey : when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces 
of butter, till petfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half 
^f thin cream, ofr good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, i and three ounces of currants. ? 

Cheeseeakes 9 another way. 

Alix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of cur- 
rants, twelve ounces of white sugar, a quarter of an ounce 
of fcinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chop- 
ped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and 
whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded fcream, and a glass of 
brandy. Put a light thin puff-paste in the patty-pans, and 
three parts fill them. 

Ijttmn Cheesecakes. 

Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar And four oifficea 
df butter and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two 
And the white of one bgg, the tind of three lemons shred 
line, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, 
some blanched almonds pounded, three spoonfuls of bran* 
dy$ »» w%H, and put in paste tead* asfoMorts; eigfet 

B 2 



fia DOMESTIC C+OKKHT. 

ounces of flour, six ounces of bolter: two-thirtls^of wfafcfc 
mix with the flour first; theo wet it with six spoonfuls us 7 
water, and roll the remainder in. , v- 

Another wag/. — Boil two large lemons or three mall 
ones, and after squeezing, pound them well together io a 
mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the yolks of six 
eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter, fill the patty-pans 
telffuil. 

Orange cheesecakes are done the same way, only you 
must boil the peel in two or three waters to take out the 
bitterness ; or make them of orange marmalade well beat' 
en in a mortar. 

- Orange Cheesecakes. 

When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat 
them very fine, with orange-flower water, and half a pound 
of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has 
been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be 
nearly cold before you use it :• then beat the yolks of ten, 
and whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a 
fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar, till as 
tender as marmalade, without lumps,* and beat the whole 
together, and put into pattypans. 

Potatoe Cheesecakes. 

Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemou* 
peel ; beat the latter in a marble mortar, with four ounces 
of sugar : then add the potatoes, beaten, and four ounces 
of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed lei 
it stand to grow cold. Put crust in pattypans, and rather 
more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an 
hour ; sifting some double-refined sugar on them when go* 
ing to the oven. 

This quantity will make a dozen. / 

Almond Cheesecake*. 

Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few 
Bitter, with a spoonful of water; then add four ounces of 
sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two 
eggs well beaten, mix all as quick as possible : put into 
very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm ores 
Under' twenty minutes. 

Another way. — Blanch and pound four ounces of al- 
morafe*, wMh a little oraqge-flower, or rose-water; then 



-T Jf? 



V*G*TABL*S. . Iff 

stir is the yolks of six, aad whites of three eggs, well beat- 
to, five ounces of butter wanned, the peel ofa lemon gra- 
ted, and a little of the juice? sweeten with fine sugar. 
When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pan** 
Another, way. — Press the whey from as much curd aa 
will make two dozen small ones ; then put it on the back 
*£a tdeve, and'with half an ounce of butter rub it through 
•with the back of a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and three, 
whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds pounded with as 
much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet ; mis 
With it the rind ofa lemon grated, and a glass of brandy* 
Put a puffjpaste into the pan*, and ten minutes will bake 
fhem. 



PART VIL 



TEGETABLES. 

Observations oh dressing Vegetables. 

VEGETABLES should be carefully cleaned from ipk 
sects, and nicely washed. Drain them the moment they 
ate done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty 
tad • crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with 
meat ; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. 

To boil Vegetables green, 
■ Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make 
them boil very fast. Don't cover, but watch them ; and 
if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are 
done when they begin to sink. Then take them out imme- 
diately, or the colour will change. Hard water, espe- 
cially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables 
as should be green. 

To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spoonful of 
sak of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the 
vegetables are put in. 

To keep green Peas. 

Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; 
give tjjem two or three warms only, and pour them into a 



174 Mxmnc ceonsr. 

cobttte. Wben the water drains off; tura then* tut oft* 
cbesaer covered with cloth, and pour them on another 
doth to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide mouths 
ed bottles ; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton £*- 
et opon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it 
down; and keep it hi a cellar or in the earth, a* will he 
directed for gooseberries under the head of keeping fot 
Wtnter.-^-When they are to be used, boil them till tender; 
with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. 

Another way. — Shell, scald, and dry them as above. r 
put them on tins or earthen dishes in a cool oven once or 
twice to harden. Keep them in paper bags hung up in the 
kitchen. TV hen they are to be used, let them lie an hour 
in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of 
butter, and boil them tiH ready. Put a sprig of dried 
mint to boil with them. 

Bailed Peas 
Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop some 
scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in 
with them. 

To stew green Pens. 

Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a 
bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs- 
round the lettuce from washing. Stew them two hours 
rory gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and 
stir it into them : or a bit of flour and butter. 

Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an 
improvement. Gravy may be added, but then there will 
be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint, and 
stew in them. 

To slew old Peas. 

Steep them in water all night, if not fine boilers? other- 
wise only half an hour : put them into water enough just 
to coverthem, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef 
"or pork. Stew them very gently tilt the peas are soft, and 
the meat is tender ; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a 
little pepper. Serve them round the meat. 

To dress Artichokes* 

Trim a few of the outside leaves off; and cut the stalk 
erven. If young, half an hour will boll them. They .are 
tetter for being gathered two or thtse day* first. Serve; 



V&aBTJUBLES* * IK5. 

{bem witB melted butter in as many small cups as there 
are artichokes, to help with each. 

, • . Artichoke Bottoms. 

. {f dried, they roust be soaked, then stewed in weak gra- 
vy, #nd served with or without forcemeat in each. Or 
fjiey may be boiled in milk, and served with cream-sauce ; 
or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. 

Jerusalem Artichokes . 

Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they 
will be too soft. 

They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricaa? 
see-sauce. ' , 

To stew Cucumbers. 
\ Slice them thick; or halve and divide them into two 
lengths; strew some salt ard pepper, and sliced onions; 
#dd a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very alow- 
Jyj find before serving, if no butter was in hefore^puhaom*, 
and a little flour ; or if there was butter in, only a tittle 
flour, unless at*v«nts richness. 

Anotherway. — Slice the unions, and cut the cucumbevs 
large; flour them, and fry them in song* butter; then 
flour on some good broth or gravy, and stew thejn till done 
f&qugh* Skim off the fat 

To stew onions. 

JPeel large onions,; fry gently of a fine brown, but do 
not blacken them ; then put them into a small stew-pan, 
with a little weak .gravy, pepper, and salt; cover and stew 
two hours gently • They should be lightly floured at 
first 

Roast onions 
Should be done with all the skins on. Th^y eat well 
alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast pota* 
toes ; o? with beetroots. 

To stew Celery. 

Wash six heads, and strip off their outer leaves ; either 
halye, or leave them whole, according to their size : cut 
into Jengths of four inches. Put them iito a stew-pan with 
a cup of broth, or weak white gravy : stew till tender; then 
add two spoonfuls of cream, and a litil - flour and butter 
seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all 
Jogether. 



ITU DOMESTIC COOKERY, 

To btil Cauliflowers. 

Choose those that are close and white. Cut off the 
green leaves, and look carefully that there are no cater- 
piltarB about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water ; thea 
boil them in milk and water; and take care to skim the 
sauce-pan, that not the least foulness may fall on thfe 
flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. 

Cauliflower in white Sauce. 

Half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay 
them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, aHttte 
salt, and a dust of white pepper; simmer half an houi\; 
then put a little cream, butter, and flour ; shake, add sim- 
mer a few minutes, and serve. 

To dress Cauliflower and Parmesan. 

Boil a cauliflower ; drain it en a sieve, and cut the stalk 
so that the flower will stand upright about two inches 
-above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan, with a little white 
sauce; let it stew till dene enough, which w^ill be but a 
few minutes ; then dish it with the saucfe Iround, and put 
Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. * 

To dress Brocdi. 
- Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin 
off them. Tie the small shoots Into bunches, and boij 
them a shorter time than the heads.* Some salt must be put 
into the water. Serve with or without toast* 

Spinach 
Requires great care jo washing and picking it. When 
that is done* throw it into a sauce-pan that wi)l just hold If, 
sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan 
must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, 
beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter : it must 
come to table pretty dry : and looks well if pressed into a 
tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold' at the 
tin-shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. 

To dress Beans. 

Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must he 
chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork 
must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. 

Fricasseed Windsor Bean*. 

When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay 
them in a white sauce ready-hot : just heat them through 



V4& 



i^h_MHMttfe~- 



r«— * 



r^VMOTpw— v^fvjjp 



ia it, and iem. If kpy ate not of a floe greeny do not use 
tfyun for this dish. . . . 

y French Beans. 

f: dog, and cut them ioto four or eight ; the test looks 
besw Lay them in salt and water ; and when the sauce- 
pan boils, put them in with some salt. As soon as they are 
done, serve them immed)ately,to preserve the green colour. 

Or when half-done, drain the water off, and put them in* 
to two spoonfuls of broth strained ; and add a little cream, 
butter, and flour, to finish doing them. 

To stew red Cabbage* 

Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage; wash and. 
put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but 
what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till 
qpiite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. 
Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. 

Another nx§y. — Shred the cabbage.; wash it, and put it 
over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, aud 
a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few min- 
utes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour,, 
apd two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. 
/ . Another. — Cut the cabbage very thin; and put it into 
the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce 
of butter, at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gHl of 
vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is 
very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a 
tabk*spoonfiil of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and 
boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the r 
dish, and lay fried sausageaon it 

Mushrooms* 

The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the dif- 
ferent sorts of things called by this name by ignorant 
people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned 
by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. 

.The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of 
a found form* on* Httle stalky They grow very fast, and 
the upper part aud stalk are white. As the size increases, 
the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of v 
a very £ne-a«rfm<m*cotour ; -vrfeieh- «oota«ues more or less 
till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to 



adarkbnppib Th<^ i»rk§ rtmU4b«^ttnHled to, Bad 
likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from life 
cdgea and middle. Those that hav€ a white or yellow 
far should be carefully avoided, though many of them 
have the same smell (butnot so strong) as the right sort* 

To -stem Mushrooms. 
The large buttons- are best, and the small flaps while - 
the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and 
a bit of flannel ; cut out the fur, and take off the skin 
from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a 
stew-pan with some pepper-corns: simmer slowly till 
done ; then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two 
spoonfuls- of cream; give them one boil, and serve with 
sippets of bread. 

To stew Sorrel for Fricandeau and roast Meat 
Wash the sorrel; and put it into a stone jar, with no 
more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow 
as you can ; and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and 
heat it well. 

J French Salad. 
Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small; 
put them into a bowl with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 
ooe of oil, a little mustard, and salt When well mixed, 
add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very 
thin slices; put in a few at a time not exceeding two or 
three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then 
put more ; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be pre* 
pared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnkh with 
parsley, and a few slices of the fat 

A Lobster Salad. 
Make a salad, and put some of the red part of the Job- 
ber to it, cut This forms a pretty contrast to the white 
and green of the vegetables. Don't put much oil, ap shell- 
fish absorb the sharpness of vinegar. Serve in a dish, not 
a bowl. 

To boil Potatoes. 
Set them en a fire, without paring them, covered with 
cold water; let them half-boil then throw some salt in, 
and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again' till al- 
most done* Pour off the water ; And put a dcxircloth over 
them and then the saucepan-cover, and set them by the 



"■V 



• 

vbgbtAble£. *' 170 



.- 1 



ire to steam till ready. Many persons prefef steamers, 
potatoes look best when the. skin is peeled not cut. 

X)o new potatoes the same ; but be careful they are ta- 
ken off in time^ or they will be watery. Before dressing, 
rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, andthen wash. 

To broil Potatoes. % 

Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and 
then set them whole on the gridiron over a very Blow 
fire ; and when thoroughly done, send them up with their 
eking on. TJhis last way is practised in many Irish fami- 
lies. 

To roast Potatoes. 
Half-boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a 
beautiful brown. 

To fry Potatoes. 
. Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice, and fry them, 
either in butter or thin batter. 

To mask Potatoes. 
Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; 
then to, two pounds of them, add a quarter of a pint of 
milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all 
well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner; or 
place them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top 
with a salamander ; or in scallops. 

To boil Squashes. 
Cut them in halves and clean away the seeds. 5ut 
them into enough boiling water to cover them and throw 
m& table spoonful of salt. When sufficiently done to pulp 
easily, pour off the water, and mash them with a wooden 
ladle. Add salt and butter. When dished, dust over 
some black pepper. 

Carrots 
Require a good deal of boiling : when young, wipe off the 
skin after they * are boiled; when old, boil them with the 
salt meat, and scrape them first. 

z To stew Carrots. 
Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a 
stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak 
broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream : 
simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken* 
Before serving, rab a very little flour, with aWt of butter, 

ft 



ISO DOMESTIC COOKEBY. 

and Warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley 
may be added ten minutes before served. 

To mash Parsnips. 

Boil them tender; scrape, then mash them into a stew- 
pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper 
and *alt 

Fricassee of Parsnips. 

Boil in milk till they are soft. Then cut them length- 
ways into bits two or three inches long; and simmer in a 
white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, 
half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pep- 
per, and salt 

Beet-roots 
Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad ; of which 
they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being on- 
ly used to ornament it This root is cooling, and very' 
wholesome. 

It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small 
quantity of vinegar, or stewed with whole onions, large or 
small, as follows; 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on; slice it into a 
stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar : 
simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; then put 
it into a small dish, and make around of the button-onions, 
first boiled till tender; take off the skin just before serv- 
ing, and mind they are quite hot, and clear. 

Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins 
tilltbejr look clear; and serve the beet-root stewed round 
them. 

Jf beet-root is hi the least broken before dressed, it parts 
with its colour, and looks ill. 

Frying Herbs. 

Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves, two 
large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions* 
Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among 
the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some salt, and 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut : shake the pan when 
it begins to grow 'warm, and let it be closely covered over 
a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of 
broiled Calves' liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs 
fried; the Utter on the herbs, Uie other in a separate 
dish. 



VEGETABLES. t l&* 

Sea Cole 
Must be boiled very white, and served on toast like as- 
paragus, -v 

To preserve several Vegetables to eat in the Winter. 

For French beans, pick them young, and throw iiro a 
little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep ; then 
sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and 
do the same as high as you think proper alternately with 
salt, but not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or 
cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a hea- 
vy stone on it A pickle will rise from the beans and 
salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not 
be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. When 
tliey are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Beet-roots, should be kept in 
layers of dry sand for winter use ; and neither they nor 
potatoes . should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes 
should be carefully kept from frost. 

Store-onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. 

Parsley should be cut close to the stalks; and dried in 
a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven; it preserves 
its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. 

Small close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the 
frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine, after many weeks 
keeping. 

pickles. *\ 

Rules to be observed rvith Pickles. 

Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden spoon, 
with holes, tied to each jar; all metal being improper. 
They should be well kept from the air; the large jars be 
seldom opened ; and small ones, for the different pickles 
in use should be kept for common supply, into which what 
is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely cover- 
ed. 

Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of sauce- 
pans. When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone 
jar, on the hot hearth. Fiekles should never be put into 
glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, Which 
is poisonous. 

Lemon Pickle. 
- Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put OD 



i £|2 DOMESTIC COOKEKV. 

Ihenx a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic* two oun- 
ces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, macc^ 
nutmeg, and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and 
two ouuces of flour of mustard ; to these put two quarts 
of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinnej] 
sauce-pan ; or, which is better, do it in a strong jar, in a 
kettle of boiling water; or set thejar op the hot hearth till 
done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks j 
keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. *- 

Indian Pickle. 
Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night; then 
scrape, slice, and lay it in salt iu a pan till the other ingre- 
dients shall be ready. 

Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlic three days, then 
put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the 
same way. 
Prepai e various sorts of vegetables thus : 
Quarter smajl white cabbages, salt three days, squeeze^ 
and set them in the sun to dry. 

Cauliflowers cut in their branches ; take off the green 
from radishes ; cut celery in three-inch lengths ; ditto 
young French beans whole. Apples and cucumbers, choose 
of the least seedy sort ; cut them in slices, or quarters if 
not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in 
the sun, except the latter : over which you must pour boil- 
ing vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt 
must be used. : 

Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mustard- 
seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the 
quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one 
ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables 
shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the follow- 
ing directions : Put some of them into a two-quart ston$ 
jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegary 
Kext day take put those vegetables; and when drained^ 
put them into, a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegary 
pour it over some more of the vegetables; let them lie a 
sight, and do as above. Thus proceed till you bavg*' 
cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall- 
on them by being so long in doing; then, to every gallon 
of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing, by 



* - . ' 



ptcKhva 119 

degrees, with a little of it boiling-hot. The whole of the 
vinegar should have been previously «calded> but. set tq 
be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop th^ jar tight* 

This pickle will not be ready for a year, but you majg 
make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving 
the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying 
as above, but without the preparative vinegar; theu pour 
the vinegar, that has the spice and garUc, boiling-hot over* 
If at any time it be found that, the vegetables have not 
swelled properly ; boiling the pickle, and pouring it oyer 
them hot, will plump them. 

Melon Mongoes. 

There is a particular sort for this purpose, which tho 
gardeners know* Cut a square smalt piece out of 004 
side,and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them, 
mustard-seeds and shred garlic; stuff the melon as full a# 
the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bhu) 
it up with a small new pack-thread. Boil a good quantity 
of vinegar, to allow for wasting with peppers, salt, ginger, 
and pour boiling hot over the mangoes four successive 
days; the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse- 
radish, into the vioegar just as it boils up. Stop close* 
Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are 
spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done 
soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, prepared 
as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. 

Mark, the greater number of times boiling -vinegar is 
poured over either sort, the sooner H will be ready. 

Pickled Lemons. 

They should be small, and with thick rind* ; rub them 
with a piece of flannel; then slit them half down in four 
quarters, but not through to the pulp; fill the slits with 
salt hard pressed in, set them upright to a pan for four of 
Ave days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a-day ia 
their own liquor, until tender; make enough pickle to co- 
ver them, of vinegar, the brine of the lenjons, Jamaica 
pepper,' and ginger; boil and skim it; when cold, put it 
to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two 
cloves of garlic to six lemons. When the lemons are useo\ 
the pickle will be useful in .fish or other sauces. 
.,-■-■ * 

Q> 2 



itU DOMK8TIC CO0KEBY. 

dives • 

Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of differ- 
ent sizes and flavour; each sorts should be firm, though 
some are most fleshy. 
' Preserve them from the air. < 

Pickled Onions. 
' In the month of September, choose the small while 
round onions* take off the brown skin, have ready a very- 
dice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in as many onione 
&s will cover the top ; as soon as they look clear on the 
outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and 
lay them on a clean cloth; cover them close with another, 
tied scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be coiq\ 
then put them in a jar, or glass wide-mouth bottles, ami 
pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot, but 
not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer ' 

skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. 

To pickle Cucumbers and Onions sliced, 
. Cut them in Slices, and sprinkle salt over them : next 
day drain them for five or six hours; then put them into 
a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them 
in a warm place. *The slices should be thick. Repeal 
the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again instantly ; and 
06 on till green ; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep ' 

if. in small stone jaw. v 

To pickle yrnmg Cucumbers. 
'- Choose nice young ones, spread them on dishes, salt 
them and let them lie a week — drain them, and, putting 
them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them 
bear the fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves ; if they 
do not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar ! 

ihto another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it 
Boils, pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves; 
•fed thus do till they are of as good a colour as you wish? 
be careful not to use brass or. bell-metal vessels,- which, 
When vinegards put into them, become highly poisonous. 

' To pickle Walnuts. ' 

When they will bear a pin to go into them, put a brine 
of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg 
on them, being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed {j 

while boiling. JLet them soak six days ; then change the 



* «* 



VMiMmpma 



PICKLES. 186 

ferine, let them stand six more; then drain them, and pour 
over them in a jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, 
with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, 
cloves, mustard-seed, and horse-radish ; all boiled together, 
but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls 
of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlic or shalot, 
but the latter is least strong. 

Thus done, they will be good for several years, if close 
Covered. The air will soften them. They will not be 
fit to eat under six months. 

* The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the wal- 
nuts are used. 

Another way, — Put them into a jar, cover them with 
the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months ; then 
{war off the pickle, and boil as much fresh vinegar as will 
cover the walnuts, adding to every three quarts of vinegar 
one quarter-pound of best mustard, a stick of horse-radish 
sliced, one half-ounce of black pepper,, one half ounce of 
feloves, one ounce of ginger, one half-ounce of allspice, and 
a good handful of salt : pour the whole, boiling hot, upon 
the walnuts, and cover them close; they will be fit for use 
in three or four months. You may add two ounces of 
garlic, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. 

Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first 
four months, you may make excellent ketchup. 

An excellent way to pickle Mushrooms, to preserve 

the flavour. 

Buttons must be tubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; 
and from the larger, take out the red inside ? for when they 
are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little 
salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace 
and pepper ; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and 
keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be driedinto them 
again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover 
them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone 
jar* They will keep two years, and are delicious. 

To pickle Red Cabbage. 
: Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with 
salt ? let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour 
feoiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red 
feee>TOot Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. 



160 DOMtfWlC COOMRY. 

» 

Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with tha 
viuegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thrown in afi£¥ 
(being salted, wiJl look of a beautiful red. 

Mushroom Ketchup* 

Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an 
earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and tfaea 
for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there 
is a thick scum over; strain, and boil the liquor with Ja- 
maica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and 
aome mustard-seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a blad- 
der over the cork ; in three months boil it again with some 
fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. 
, Mushroom Ketchup, another way. 

Take a stew-pan full of the large-flap mushrooms, that 
are not worm-eaten, and the skiqs and fringe of those you I 

have pickled \ throw a handful of salt among them, and I 

Set them by a slow fire ; they will produce a great deal of 
liquor, which you must strain ; and put to it four ounces 
of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, gin- 
ger, mace cloves, and a few bay -leavea-— boil and skim 
very well. When cold, cork close. In two months boil 
it up again with a little fresh spice, and a stick of horse- 
radish, and it will then keep the year; which mushroom 
ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. j 

Walnut Ketchup of the finest sort. 

Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juke of wal- 
nuts when they are tender, and skim it well ; then put in t 
two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, ditto of sbafota, 
one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one 
clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the sbalots sink : then; 
put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle, and divide the 
spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. 

It wi)l keep twenty years, and is not good the first Be 
very careful to express the juice at home ; for it is rarely 
unadulterated, if bought. 

Cockle Ketchup* 

Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; add ' 

a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not 
enough; strain through a cloth, then season with every 
savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, ancbo» * j 
vies, aad garlic— -if for white, omit these, and put a glass of 



i 



&WSBS DISHES. 187 

fe$arry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, and while 
pepper. Jf for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. 

It is better to have cockles enough than to add water ; 
and they are cheap, 
j. Tqkeep Capres. 

, . Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and become 
cold — and tie them close, to keep out the air, which makes 
them soft. 



PART Fill. 



SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, 
SWEETMEATS, &c. 

SWEET DISHES. 

Buttered Rice. 
» WASH and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some 
new milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire; when ten- 
der, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little su- 
gar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that it do not 
burn and serve* 

Souffle of Rice aid Apple. 
Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, 
i?ith lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till 
the rice is dry ; then cool it, and raise a rim three inches 
high round the dish ; having egged the dish where it is put, 
to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Jb* ill the 
dish half-way. up with a marmalade of apples; have ready 
the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them 
over the marmalade : then sift fine sugar over it, and set 
it- in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a 
beautiful colour. 

' Snow-balls. 
>■ Swell rice in milk, strain it off, and having pared and 
cpred apples, put the rice rouod them, tying each up in a 
cloth* Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon, in 
each, and boil them well. 

Lent Potatoes. 
Beat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or four 



T7 



188 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

bitter, when blanched, putting a little orange-flower wa- 
ter to prevent oiling; add eight ounces of butter, four eggs, 
well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wiiie, and 
sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and 
grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above 
with a little flour, the size of a chesnut ; throw them into a 
stew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautifiO 
yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. 

Serve sweet sauce in a boat, to eat with tbem. 

A Tansey. 

Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately ; add Q. 
pint of cream, near the same of spihach-juice, and a little 
tansey juice gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sugar to taste, a glass of 
white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a sauce-pan, just 
to thicken, over the fire ; then put it into a dish, lined with 
paste, to turn out and bake it. 

Puits cFAnwur. 

Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with tin shaped 

made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyramid- 

ical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a moderate oven, 

that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pate.. 

* Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edges. 

A very nice Dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. 

Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, 
and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their utmost size* without breaking. Lay them on a cus- 
tard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. 

Floating Island. 
^ Mix three half pints of thin cream with a quarter of a 
pint of rasin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower wa- 
ter, and sugar : put into a dish for the middle of the table, 
and put on the cream a froth, which may be made of rasp- 
berry or currant-jelly. 

Another way. — Scald a sharp apple ;pulp it through a 
sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water ; mix in by degrees the pulp, and 
beat all together until you have a large quantity of froth ; 
serve it rn a raspberry cream ;* or you may colour the 
froth with beet-root, raspberry, currant-jelly, and set it on 
a white cream, having given it the flavour of lemon, su- 
gar, and wine, as fcbove; or put thefroth on a custard. 



J 



*■'"! ■ 



SWEET DISHES. 180 

Flummery. 

Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to 
steep a day and night in cold water : then pour it off clear 
and add as much more water, and let it stand the same 
time. Strain it through .a fine hair sieve, and boil it till 
it be as thick as hasty pudding; stirring it well all the 
time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of. 
white sugar, and two of orange flower water. Pour it into 
shallow dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk,, 
or cream and sugar. It is very good. 

Dutch Flummery. 

Boil two ouuees of isinglass in three half pints of water 
very gently half an hour ; add a pint of white wine, the 
juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a 
few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, 
and with them add as much more sugar as shall make it 
sweet enough; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, 
give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all 
the time, and pour it into a basin ; stir it till half cold ; 
then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape* 

Rice Flurtimery. 

Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and 
cinnamon : mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour 
as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, 
and add a spoonful of peach- water, or a bitter almond bea- 
ten; boil it, observing it don't burn; pour it into a shape 
or pint-basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the 
flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or cus- 
tard round; or put a teacupful of cream into half a pint 
of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, 
andjnigar. ' 

Firmity. 

To a quart of ready-Wbiled wheat, put by degrees two 
quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four oun- 
ces of currants picked clean, and washed; stir them, and 
boil till they are done* Beat the yolks of three eggs, and 
a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk ; add 
this to the wheat ; stir them together while over the fire ; 
then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some per- 
sons like it best warm. - 

Curds and Cream. 

Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little warm. 



190 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

and then add rennet When the curd . is come, Me it 
with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form 
you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, without 
breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours 
before wanted, it" is very light; but those who like tt 
harder, may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeeze 
ing it Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and 
lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass bowl, to serve 
with the curd. , 

Another way, — To four quarts of new milk warmed^ 
put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, accord* 
ing to its sourness ; keep the pan covered until the curd 
be of firmness to cut three or four time* across with a 
saucer as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and fill 
up until it foe solid enough to take the form. Serve with 
cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. 

A Curd Star. 

Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three 
blades of mace \ and when ready to boH, put to it the 
yolks and whites of nine eggs we|l beaten, and as much 
salt as will lie upou a small knife's point . Let it boil till 
the whey is clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair 
sieve; season it with sug&f, and a little cinnamon, rose-* 
water, orange~ffower water, or white wine, to your taste ; 
and put into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some 
hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it 
thick cream or custard. 

Blanc-mange, or Blamange. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water 
half an hour : strain it to a pint and a half of cream; ; 
sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter al- 
monds ; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you 
please. If not to be very stiff; a little less isinglass will do. 
Observe to let the blamange settle before you turn it into 
the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, 
and be on the lop of the blamange when taken out of the 
moulds. 

., An Excellent 7Vt/lf. 

Lay macaroens and ratafia-drops over the bottom of. 
your dish, and pour in as much rgfsin-wine as they will 
suck up ; which when they have done, pour on them cold 
rich custard made with more eggs than directed in the 



j 



•e m «»»^" 



- SWEET ©ISHKB. 1^1 

foregoing pages, and some rice-flour. It must stand two 
tor thv.ee inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry 
jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made thd 1 
day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well beaten 
eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a 
whisk, kept only to whipt syllabubs and cream. If made, 
the day before used, it has quite a different taste, and & 
solid and far better. 

Gooseberry or Apple Trifle* 

Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when 
pulped through a sieve, will -make a thick layer at the 
bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rind of half a 
lemon grated fiqe ; and to both as much sugar as will bo* 
pleasant. 

Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the 
. yolk of one egg : give it a scald over the fire, and stir it 
all the time; don't let it boil ; add a little sugar only, and 
let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and 
then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other 
Trifte. 

Chantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle. . 

Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round 

% about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking 

care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, 

and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a 

high whip. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon su- 
gar ; set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan of water over 
the fire; if the former, a large spoonful of w^ter should be 
added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press 
it through a colander; have ready a sufficient quantity 
of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together, 
or an egg instead of the latter and left to be cold; then 
sweeten it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix 
the pulp by degrees with it. s 

Apple Fool. 

Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel 
and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c. and mix as bev 
/ore. " 



R 



V 



192 DOMESTIC COOKERY. * 

Orange Fool. 

Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well 
beaten a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, 
and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow 
fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted but- 
ter, but it must not be boiled; then pour it into a dish for 
eating cold. 

A Cream. 

Boil half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, a bit 
of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop 
of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea* 
spoonful of flour, having been rubbed down with a little 
cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a 
little lemon-juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or 
lemonade-glasses. 

An excellent Cream. 

Whip up three quarters of a pint of veiy rich create 
to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon peel, 
a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and 
sugar to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a 
sieve or in a form, and nest day put it on a dish, and 
ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in 
tin shapes the length of a finger and about two thick, 
over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glaze with 
isinglass. Or you may use macaroons, to line the edges 
of the dish. 

Burnt Cream. 

Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some 
lemon-peel; take it off the fire, and pour ft very slowly 
into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten, 
and take out the spice, &c. ; pour it into the dish; when 
cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a 
-salamander. 

Another way. — Make a rich . custard without sugar, 
foiling lemon-peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of 
sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salaman- 
der. 

• Sack Cream. 

Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an e^g well beat- 
en, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar* and lemoo- 
|>ee! | stir it ova: a gentle fire tall it be as thick as rich 



it 



* SWEET DISHES. 19$ 

cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses^ 
with long pieces of dry toast. 

Brandy Cream. 

Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter 
almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks 
of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and^put 
to it two glasses of the best brandy ; and when well mixed, 
pour to it a quart of thin cream : set it over the fire, but 
don't let it boil ; stir one way till it thickens, then pour io- 
ta cups, or low glasses. 

When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be 
put in each if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald 
the cream previously. 

Ratafia Cream. 

Boil three or four peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full 
pint of cream; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of 
three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful 
of brandy stirred quick into it Scald till thick, stirring 
it all the time. 

Another way. — Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia* 
&e same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or 
three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar a& 
will make it pleasantly -flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, 
and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or 
ten days. 

Lemon Cream. 

Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten, four ounce* of fine sugar, and the thin 
rind of a lemon ; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold ; 
put the juice of a lembn in a dish, or bowl, and pour the 
cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. 

Yellow Lemon-cream, without cream. 

Pare four lemons very thin into twelve large spoonful* 
of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely- 
pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add 
the peels and juice beaten together for some time; then 
strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block- 
tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way 
till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it 
will curdle. Pour it into jelly glasses. A few lumps of 
sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they 



1 



]94 * SOMSST1C COOKERY. 

are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not t» fake 
all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a 
better colour and flavour. «~ 

White-laium Cream 
Is made the same as above ; only put the whites of the 
eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extremely well to 
froth. 

Imperial Cream. 

Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then 
stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that 
you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons Btrained with 
as much sugar as will sweeten the cream ; which pour into 
the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving 
it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least 
six hours before it be served, end will be still better if a 
day. 

Almond Cream* 

Beat fbar ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter 
in a mortar, with a tea-spooeful of water to prevent oiling, 
both having been blanched. Put the paste to a quart of 
cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened; beat 
it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow 
part of a sieve ; fill glasses with some of the liquor and 
the froth. 

Snow Cream. 

Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well 
beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, 
and a bit of lemon-peel : whip it to a froth, remove the 
peel, and serve in a dish. 

Coffee Cream, muck admired. 

Boil a calPs ioot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly, 
clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong 
coffee; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly 
bright ; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of very good 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; 
give one boil up, and pour into the dish. 

It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that youp 
coffee' be fresh. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the 
best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil 



SWftKT BISBSftV V&9 



v. 



and mill it ; when quite-smooth, take it 0$ and leave H 
to be eoW; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk; 
and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done ; and 
serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream.. 

/ Appk Cream. 

Pare and core ten good apples; beat them in a mortar, 
Willi a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put su- 
gar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it Stir il 
well. 

Excellent Orange Cream, 

BbH the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it 
ttne in a mortar : put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, 
the juice of an orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and die 
yolks of four eggs ; beat all together for ten minutes; then 
by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream; beat 
till cold ; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish or* 
boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at 
the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, t>r preser* 
ved chips* ' 

I{aspberry Cream. 
' Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain ; then sprin- 
kle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; 
then put the juke to some cream, and sweeten it; after 
Which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will 
sot curdle ; which it would, if put to the milk, before the 
cream ; but it is best made of raspberry-jelly, instead of' 
jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. * 

« Another way. — Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings in 
three pints of cream, and new milk mixed, for fifteen min- 
utes, or until the former be melted ; strain it through a 
hair-sieve into a basin ; when cool put about half a pint of 
rasjtoerry-juiee, or syrup, to the milk and cream ; stir it 
till well incorporated; sweeten, and add a glass of bran- 
dy ; whisk it about till three parts cold ; then put it into 
a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice 5 
In winter, syrup of raspberries. 

Spinach Cream, 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooded spoon or a * 
whisk ; sweeten them a good deal ; and put to them a stick 
ef cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, 'three quarters of a pint 
of new milk; stir It well; then add a quarter of a plat 



/ 



of spinach-juice ; set it over a gentle stove* aid stir it 
way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Pttfc -• 
into a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved' 
orange, in loog slices, and pour the mixture over them. It 
is to be eaten cold ; and is a disk either for supper, or for 
a second course. * 

Clouted Cream. 

String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to * 
gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose-water; simmer 
a few minutes ; then by degrees stir this liquor strained in- 
to the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. . Stir the whole 
into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire jr < 
Stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pour it into a deep 
dish, and. let it stand twenty-four hours* Serve it in a 
cream dish, to eat with fruits. . Many people prefer it 
without any flavour but that of cream ; in which case use 
a quart of new milk and Ihe ©ream, or do it as the scaldctY 
cream. 

Wheu done enough, a round mark will appear on the 
surface of the cream, ihe size of the bottom of the pan it is 
done in, which is called the ring ; and when that is sec% - 
remove the pan from the fire. 

A Froth to set on Cream, Custer d, or Trifle* 
which looks and eats tvell. 

Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons* or aay 
other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs 
beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand a* 
jbigh as you choose ; and being pat on the cream, &c. with „ 
. a spoon, it will take any form ; it shoal d be rough, to iun> 
{ate * rock. 

A Cover fa? Swcttmtis. 

Dissolve eight ounces of double -refined sugar in three 
.or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of lemon* 
juice; then put it into a copper unturned skillet ; when it 
boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put 
that into a piot-baBin of water, squeeze the sugar from the • 
Spoon iato it, and soon till you have all the sugar. Take ' 
a bit out of Ike water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when * 
cold, it is done enough ; but only let it be three parts cold, 
then pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper 
'form oiled well, rsm Ate sag** *** % ** 4» manner of * 



^ *_... 



SWEET DISHEST • HW 

j, and wh^n cold you may put it on the dish it h to 
oorer : but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the 
wfeter, and return it into the skillet, and boil it again* It 
should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold" 
colour. It is a most elegant cover. 

€alf*8 Feet Jelly. 

Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the 
feet are broken, and the water half-wasted ; strain it, and 
when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the. 
sediment; then put it .into a saucepan, with sugar, raisin 
wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. 
When the flavour is rich, put to it' the whites of five eggs 
Yell beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on 
the fire, but don't stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let 
it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour 
it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot 
water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run 
the jelly through and through until clear ; then put it into 
glasses or forms. 

The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing 
•f jelly: When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, 
throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boirfive minutes 
ftmger ; then take the sauce pan off the fire covered close, 
and keep it half an hour; after which, it will be so clear' 
as to need only once running through the bag, and much 
waste will be saved. 

Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the 
people who sell them,, that they are less nutritious ; they 
should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor 
will- require greater care in removing the fat ; but the 
jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. 
Note : jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely 
cleaned; and as they make a stronger jelly, this obscrva*- 
tion may be useful. 

An&ther way. — Boil four quarts of water with three 1 
calf's feet, or two cow-heels, that have been: only scalded* 
till half wasted; take the jelly from the fat and sediment* 
nix with it the juice of an orange and twelve lemons, the 

Seels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggsj 
rown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wine, one ounce 
of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a kit 



191 DOMESTIC C**K3SY. 

of cinnamon, and six clove*, all bruised, after having pre- 
viously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen 
minutes without stirring ; then clear it through a flannel 
bag. While running take a little jelly, and mix with a tefe^ 
cupful of water, in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, 
ana run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; 
and this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled t>n a 
plate ; but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very 
fine high colour and flavour. 

Orange Jtlly. 

Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, 
and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each, and 
strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump 
sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it al- 
most candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass-jelly madtf 
with two ounces ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up ; 
strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, be* 
fibre it is put into the mould. 

Hartshorn Jelly. 

Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with two 
quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it with the rinds 1 
of four China dranges and two lemons-pared thin ; whetr 
oooL, add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, and the 
whites of six eggs beaten to a froth : let the jelly have 
three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through? 
a jelly-bag. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Make a very strong isinglass-jelly. When cold, mix it 
with a double quantity of cranberry-juice pressed, and 
sweeten and boil it up; then strain it into a shape. 

The sugar must be good loaf^ or the jelly will not be 
dear. 

Cranberry and Rice Jelly. 

Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees 
■n into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, 
thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, stirring it, aqd sweeten 
to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat 
as the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. - 

Apple Jelly, to serve at table. 

Prepare twenty golden pippins; boil them in a pint 
and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender f then? 



'A*- 



Js^Sfl 



-~v +• 



SWEET DISHES. 1*0 

strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a 
|k>und of fine sugar; add grated orange or lemon; then 
boil to a jelly. 

Another., — Prepare apples as before "by- boiling and 
straining; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in 
a half pint of water to a jelly ; put this to the apple water, 
and apple as strained through a coarse sieve ; add sugar, 
a little lemon-juice and peel ; boil all together, and put in* 
to a dish. Tate out the peel. 

To scald Apples. 

Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice 
gaucepap ; and when full, pour as much water as will cover 
them. Set it ever a gentle fire, and let them simmer slow- 
ly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. 
Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or cus- 
tard; if the latter, there-should be no ratafia. 

Dust fine sugar over the apples. 

Stewed Golden Pippins. 

Scoop out the core, pare them very thin, and as you do 
3, throw them in water. For every pound of fruit, make 
half a pound of single-refined sugar into syrup, with a pint 
of water ; when skimmed put the pippins in, and stew till 
clear ; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be 
careful not to let them break. 

They are an elegant and good dish for a coraei <*£ 
dessert. 

Black Caps. 

Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in a 
shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. 
Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for 
sauce. 

Another way. — Take off a slice from the stalk end of 
some apples, and core without paring then*. Make rea- 
dy as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, 
and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves jn 
fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, 
and turn the flat end down on a stew-pan : set them on a 
very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of 
water; oovor them. close, and now and then baste them 
with the liquor ; when done enough, black the tops with a/ 
salamander. 



-&>0 DOMESTIC CQOSLtifL* K 

N Stewed Pears. 

Pare, and halve or quarter large pears according to their* 
size ; throw them into water, as the akin is taken off before 
they are divided, to prevent their turning black, Pack 
them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much a*n 
gar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon- 
peel, a clove or two, and some allspice crackod ; just covh 
er them with water, ami put some of the red liquor, as di** 
rected in another article. Cover them close, and stew 
three or four hours ; when tender, take them out, and pour 
the liquor from them. 

Baked Pears* 

These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste bet- 
ter than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. 
Wipe, but doiCt pare, and lay them on tin-plates, and bake 
them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten 
them with a silver-spoon. When done through, put them 
on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, 
and very gently. 

Orange Butter. . 

Boil «ix hard eggs, beat them in a mortar with two. 
ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ouik 
ees of blanched almonds beat into a paste. Moisten with 
orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub it through 
a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. 

Wine Roll. 

Soak a small roll in raisin wine till it will hold no more ; 
put it in the disli, and pour round it a custard, or cream, 
sugar, and lemon-juice. Just before it is served, sprinkle 
over it some nonpareil comfits; or stick a few blanched 
slit almonds into it. 

Sponge buiscuiU may be used instead of the roll. 
To prepare Fruit for Children, afar more wholesome wag 

than in Pies and Puddings. 

Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, &c. 
&to a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as ne- 
oessary among them ; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a I 

sauce-pan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is per- | 

fectlydone. 

Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the 
fruit, or added whea eaten; the rice being plain boiled. 






/ SWEET DISH**. 201 

7V prepare Ice for losing. 

€*et a few pounds of ice, break, it almost to powder, 
throw a large handful and a half of salt among it. Yon 
must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of 
the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The 
ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice- 
pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that 
round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a 
few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, re- 
moving; the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If 
the ice-cream, or water, be in a iorm, shut the bottom 
close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a 
spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be 
holes io the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. 

Note. When any fluid tends towards cold, the moving 
It quickly accelerates the cold ; and likewise, when any 
fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. 

Ice Waters. v 

Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the 
colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its 
respective peel ; add water and sugar to make a fine sher- 
bet, and strain it before it be put into the* ice-pot. If orange, 
the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and 
only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated 
by the sugar. 

Currant or Raspberry Water Ice. 

The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being 
gained by squeezing, sweetened, and mixed with water, 
will be ready for iceing. 

Ice Creams. 

Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will 
be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a 
noddling richness. 

Brown Bread Ice. 

Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak & small 
proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and 
ice it. 

Ratafia Cream. 

Blanch a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and 
beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar; 
then Tub with the. paste two ounces of Jump-sugar, and 



2#2 BOMKftJIC COQKIRT. 

simmer tea minutes with a tea-cup of cream, which add t? 
a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it 
Colourings to stain Jellies* Ices* or Cakes. 
Far a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal ill 
the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream. of tar- 
tar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour, 
Add in boiling a bit of allum the size of a pea. Or use beet? 
loot sliced, and some liquor poured over. 

For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little 
drop of water ; or use cream. 

For yellow* yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in 
the liquor and squeezed. 

For g-mn, pou iid spinach-leaves or beet leaves, express 
the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a sauce-pan of water 
to take off the rawness. 

Syllabub. 
Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, 
nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it 
Dear two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not 
rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk. 
Clouted cream may be put on the top, and pounded 
cinnamon and sugar. 

Another Syllabub. 
Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk 
from a large tea-pot some height into it. 

A very fine Syllabub. 
In a large China bowl put a piot of port, and a pint of 
sherry, or other white, wine; sugar to taste. Milk (he 
bowl full. In twenty minutes time cover it pretty high 
with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded 
cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. 

Junket. 
Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then 
put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon; on the top, 
without breaking the curd. 

Everlasting* or Solid* Syllabubs. 

Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined 

sugar, a pint and half of fine raisin wine, in a deep pan ; 

put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. 

Beat, or whisk it one way halfaa hour; then put it oa a 






SWEET DISHES. 203 

sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in thfc shallow 
end till next day. Put it in glasses. If will keep good 
in a cool place tea days. 

Lemon Honeycomb. 
Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it 
in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg 
that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; 
whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. 
Do it the day before it is to be used. 

Rice and Sago Milks 
Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering 
with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done;. The 
former sort requires lemon, spice and sugar ; the latter is 
good without any thiug to flavour it. 

A pretty Supper DUh\ 
* Boil a tea-cupful of rice, in milk till tender: strain off 
the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over 
them some finely powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put 
warm wine and a little' butter into the dish. 
^ Savoury Rice. 

Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small 
quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion* a 
blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When swelled, bat not 
boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before 
the fire, and either serve it dry, or put it in the middle 
of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it 

Carrole of Rice. 
■ Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it 
five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew-pan, 
with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. 
Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have ready a 
mould lined with very thin slices of bacon : mix. the yolks 
of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon 
with it about half an inch thick ; put into it a ragout of 
chicken, rabbit, veal, of any thing else. Fill up the mould, 
and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an 
hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a good gravy, or 
currv-sauce. 
Rice Edging see page 136. 

Salmagundy 
Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the co- 

S 



204 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Iouts of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose 
chop separately the white part of cold chicken or ve*J, 
yolks of eggs bioiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, tetf 
,a dozen anchoves, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham and 
grated tongue, or any thing well-flavoured, and of a good 
colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, 
but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large teacup* 
or any other base, must be put into a small dish ; then 
make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller 
towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each 
row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little 
sprig of curled parsley may be stuck In; or, without any 
thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, 
or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to 
stand upright by cutting off a little bit at the round end. 
In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingredient 
Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between* 

Macaroni as usually. served. 

Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well ffa* 
voured with salt. When tender put it into a dish without 
the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and gra- 
ted cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more 
butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an 
hour, but do not let the top become hard. 

Another way. — Wash it well, and simmer in -half milk, 
and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a 
spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a 
spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil : 
put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese 
all over, and bUs of butter. Brown with the salamander. 

Another. — Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a lit- 
tle broth, with a little pounded mace and salt When 
quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, 
grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with 
bread grated fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and 
pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander all 
over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to 
roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. 
The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. 

Ondet. 

Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour; 



--f-^aficsca^BUBasKfe 



■mSmm- 



,- - t ,-. 



put to it chopped parsley, green 001009, or chives (the 
lifter is best), or a very small quantity of shalot, a little 
pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some 
butter boil in a small frying-pan, and pour the above bat* 
ter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it 
and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped 
lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very plea- 
sant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized omlet; 
but many cooks will use eight or ten. A small proportion 
of flour should be used. 

A good deal of parsley should be used. 

Ramakins and omlet, though, usually served in the 
course, would be much better if they were sent up after, 
that they might be eaten as hot as possible. 

Butter to serve as a Utile Dish. . 

Roll butter in different forms ; either like a pine, and 
make the marks with a tea-spoon ; or roll it in crimping 
rollers, work it through a colander, or scoop with a tea- 
spoon, and mix with grated bee£ tongue, or anchovies. 
Make a wreath of curled paraJey, to garnish. 

Ramakins. 

Scrape a quarter of a pound of common, and ditto of 
best old cheese, ditto of good fresh butter ; then beat all in 
a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a 
small roll boiled in cream till soft; mix the paste then with 
the whites of the egga previously beaten, and put into 
small paper pans made rather long than square, and bake 
iu a Dutch oven till of a fine brown* They should be 
eaten quite hot Some like the addition of a glass of white 
wine. 

The batter for ramakins is-equally good over macaroni 
when boiled tender ; or on stewed brocoli, celery, Or cauli- 
flower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in be- 
ing put in the dish with them, but not enough to make the 
vegetable swim. 

Potted Cheese. 

Cufcand pound four ounces of best cheese, one ounce and 
a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded su- 
gar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine. Press 
it down in a deep pot. 

Roast Cheese, to come up after Dinner. 
Grate three ounces of fat cheese, mis it with the yolks 



* 



-$06 DOMBSTfC <?0OKK*Y. 

of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread/ and three ounce* 
of hotter ; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-' 
spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Teest- 
some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as abtive 
thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven covered 
with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the 
cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible/ 

Welch Rabbit. 
Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it ; toast 
a slice of best cheese on one side, and lay that next the 
bread, and toast the other with a salamander ; rub mus- 
tard over, and serve very hot, and covered. 

Cheese ToasU 
Mix some fine batter, made mustard, and salt, into a 
mass; spread it on fresh-made thin toa&ts, and grate or 
scrape rich ^cheese upon them. 

Anchovy Toast 
Bone and skin six or eight anchovies ; pound them to 
a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal 
and then spread it on toast or rusks; 

Another way. — Cut thin slices of bread into any form, 
and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies 
split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, nib 
them through a hair sieve, and spread on the toast when 
cold* Then quarter and wash some anchovies* and lay 
them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. 

To poach Eggs. 
Set a stew-pan of water on the fire ; when boiling, slip 
an egg, previously broken into a cup, into the water; 
when the white looks done enough, slide an eggalice under 
the egg^ and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As 
soon as enough are done, serve hot. If not fresh-laid, they 
will not poach well, and without breaking. Trim the rag*' 
. ged parts of the whites, and make them look round. 

Buttered Eggs. 
Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a 
/.quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put' that - 
in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour that butter : 
and the eggs into a sauce-pan ; keep a basin in your hand, 
just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a slow part of the 
fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm,- pour it into 



*few 



f T • , -» * 



fiWKBT DISHBS. 20t 

abasia an^back, then bold it again over the fire, stirring it 
constantly in the sauce-pan, and pouring it into the basin, 
more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall 
be hot without boiling. 

Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat irith salt 
fish, or smoked herrings. 

Scotch Eggs. 

Boil hard five pullet's eggs, and without removing the 
whiter cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat* 
in which, let scraped ham, bear a due proportion. Fry 
of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy 
in the dish. 

A Pepper -pot* 

To three quarts of water, put such vegetables as you 
choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or 
three onions : in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celery. 
Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of 
neck of mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till qui e ten- 
der. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab 
from the shell, and put k into the stew. Some people 
choose very small suet dumplings boiled in the above. 
Season with «alt and Cayenne. 

Instead of mutton, you may put a -fowl. Pepper-pot 

may be made of various things, - and is understood to be a 

proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse* 

A small quantity of rice should be boiled with the whole. 

A dish of Trying Herbs andlAver. ^ 

Prepare the frying herbs, as has been directed among 
the vegetables, page 180: on which lay slices of liver 
fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed at 
the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the 
herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed round ; 
or they may' be served on the herbs, and the liver gar- 
nished with the bacon separately. 

To preserve Suet a twelvemonth. 

As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick 
free from skin and veins. In a very nice sauce-pan, set it 
at some distance from the fire, that it may melt without 
frying, or it will taste. 

When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When 
in a haxd cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and 

S2 



309 MMBSTIO COftKBBY. 

then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry font not hot place. 
When used, scrape it fine, and it will make a fine emit, 
either with or without butter. 

SWEETMEATS. 

To green Fruits for preserving or pickling. 

Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while 
green, for the first or radish-pods, French beans for the 
latter, and cucumbers for both processes : and put then, 
with vine-leaves under' and over, into a block-tin preser- 
ving-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and then the 
tin cover to exclude a}l air. Set it on the side of a fire; 
and when they begin to simmer, take them offj pour off the 
water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and 
repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a skin- 
nier : they, are to be peeled, and tUen done according to 
the receipts for the several modes. 

To clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats. 

Break as much as required in large lumps, and pot a 
pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will dissolve 
better than when broken small Set it over the fire, and the 
well-whipt white of an egg ; let it boil up, and when ret* 
dy to run over, pour a little cold water in'rto give it a 
check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, 
and set it by in the pan for n quarter of an liour, during- 
which the foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave % 
black scum on the top, which take off gently with a skim* 
mer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly front 
the sediment 

To eandy any sort of Fruit* 

When finished hi the syrup, put a layer into a new* 
sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the 
syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the 
fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have* 
teady-flifted double-refined sugar, which «ft over the fruit 
on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of 
«evep in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three 
times. It must not be cold till dry. WatcJi it carefully, 
and it will be beautiful. 

To prepare Barberries for Tartlets. 

Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, and 
$ c A Wry pound weigh three quarter* of a pound of lamp* 



SWEBTMKATS. 2W 

sugar; put the fruit into a stem for, and either set it on * 
hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let them sim- 
mer very slowly till soft ; put them and the sugar into a 
preserving pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use 
no metal but silver. 

Barberries in bunches. 

Have ready bits of flat white wood, three inches long, 
and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the fruits 
on the stick from within an inch of one end to beyond the 
other, so as to Make tbem look handsome. Simmer them 
in some syrup two successive days, covering them each 
time with it when cold. When they look clear they are 
simmered enough. The third day, do them like other 
candy fruit : see receipt for it above. 

A beautiful preserve -of Apricots. 

When ripe, choose the finest aprtots ; pare them as 
thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on 
dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an 
equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew 
k over them ; in the mean time break the stones, and blanch 
the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, 
with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a pre- 
, serving-pan. Let Jt simmer very gently till clear: then 
take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; 
put them into small«pots, and pour* the syrup and kernels 
ever them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Co- 
ver with brandy-paper. 

To preserve Apricots in Jelly. 

Fare the frail very thin, and stone it ; weigh an equal 
quantity of saga* in fine powder, and strew over it Next 
day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a 
bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour 
the liquor to a quart of apple liquor made by boiling and 
straining, and .a pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly 
till it will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, 
skim well, and put into small pots. , 

To preserve green Apricots or Peaches. 

Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan* 
then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer be- 
ing thick with leaves; then fill with spring water, and 
ejnrer down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan tit 



210 DOMESTIC COOK IB Y. 

a distance bom the fire, that in four or fire hoars they 
may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of 
some of the water, and drain the fruit When both aj& A 
cold) put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; put 
the pau at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots 
green, but on no account boil or crack; remove them very; 
carefully into a pan with the syrup for two or three days ; . 
then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, and JjoiT 
with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sli- 
ced ginger into it When cold, and the Mm syrup has all 
been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it The 
former will serve to sweeten pies. 

Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. 

Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a 
quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the 
fruit into an ice»pofe»that shuts very close ; throw the su- 
gar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Be- 
tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double- 
cap paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till' the 
brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your 
finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and 
pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, . 
and tie it down tight 

To dry Peaches and Apricots in halves. 

Pare thin, and halve four pounds of fruit, weighing 
them after; put them in a dish; strew among them three 
pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the 
fruit over a stove to do very gently ; as each piece becomes 
tender, take it out, and put it into a china-bowl. When 
all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the sy- 
rup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving 
only a little in each half. In a day or two more turn them, 
and so continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm 
place. Keep ifc boxes with layers of paper. 

Apricot Cheese. 

.Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet. 
the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour 
will be spoiled ; blanch the kernels, and add to it Twen- 
ty or thirty minutes will boil it Put it in small pots or 
cups half-filled. 

Orange Marmalade* - A 

Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds , 



SWEETMEAT 211 

« 

very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil 
three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and 
add a pound of the rind; boil fast till the syrup is very 
thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and 
juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple 
iiqudr ; Txril all gently until well jellied, which it will be 
in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. 

Lemon marmalade do in the same way ; they are very 
good and elegant sweetmeats. 

Transparent Marmalade. 

Cut the palest oranges in quarters, take the pulp out, 
and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds and skins. Let 
the outsides soak in water with a Utile salt all night, 
then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till ten* 
der ; drain, and cut them in very thin slices, and put them 
to the palp ; and to every pound, a pound and a half of 
double refined sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twen- 
ty minutes, but be careful not to break the dices. If 
not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It 
must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put 
it into glasses. 

TofiH preserved Oranges ; a corner Dish. 

For five take a pound of Naples bicuits, some blanched 
almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, 
four ounces of butter warmed : grate the biscuits, and mix 
with the above and some orange-flower- water. Fill pre- 
served oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you 
like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon a? filled ; 
otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well ; if 
so you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when be* 
come cold." 

Whole Oranges carved. 

Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a pen- 
knife ; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an 
apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out ; put them into 
salt and water two days, changing it daily ; boil them an 
hour or more in fresh salt and water; drain them quite dry ; 
let them stand a night more in plain water, and then an- 
other night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next 
clay a few minutes. Do this four days successively. Let 
them stand six or seven weeks, observing often whether 



212 DOMESTIC COOKEftY. 

tfiey keep well ; otherwise boil the syrup again* The» 
make a rich syrup. 

Orange' Chips. 

Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a 
sieve ; soak th* peel io water ; next day boil in the same 
till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the 
juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into tf 
broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate dis- 
tance, often stirring till the chips candy : then set tliem in 
a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three 
weeks. 

Orange Biscuits, or little Cakes. ^ 

Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters, till 
most of the bitterness is gone; cut them, and take out the 
piilp and juice ; then beat the outside very fine in a mor* 
tar, and put to it an equal weight of double refined sugar 
beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to a paste, 
spread it thin on China dishes, and set them in die sun, or 
before the fire ; when half dry, cut it into what form you 
please, turn the other side up, and dry that Keep them 
in a box, with layers of paper. 

They are for desserts ; and are also useful as a stomachic 
to canry in the pocket on jou/neys, or for gentlemen when 
shooting, and for gouty stomachs. 

Orange-flower Cakes. 

Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold 
water for an hour ; drain and put between napkins, and 
roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised f then have, 
ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup» 
give them a simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of 
the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before 
directed. 

To preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jetty. 

Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and 
with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear 
without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, 
and lay them in spring-water two days, changing twice a- 
day : in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe 
that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they 
must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, 
weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of 
water 5 boil the two latter together with the juke of the 



•^■'W — 



-T" *« 



SWEETMEAT^. 213 

•ffwige to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well and let it stand ' 
to be cold ; "then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour ; 
if not clear, do this daily till they are done. 

Bane and core some green pippins, and boil in water 
till it tastes strong of them ; don't break them, only gently 
press them with the back of a spoon; strain the water * 
through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put 
a- pound of double refined sugar, the peel and juice of a 
lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup 
from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole up- 
wards in the jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. The bits 
cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. 
Cover with brandy-paper. 

To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, &c. 

When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, 
without the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fortnight, 
adding no more; boil them therein till tender, strain it 
from them, and when they are tolerably dry, throw them 
Into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old 
sweetmeats; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of 
syrup of common loaf-sugar and water, and put over them \ 
is a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look 
cleat, and that they may be covered with it in the jar. 
You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will 
occupy small space. 

To preserve Strawberries whole. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined su- 
gar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the 
sugar, in fine powder, over: give a gentle shake to the 
<Jisb, that the sugar may touch the underside of the fruit. 
Next day make a thin syrup with }he remainder of the su- 
gar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red currant- 
juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them 
until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or 
ethers, when not dead-ripe. In either of the above wayat, 
they eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. 
To preserve Strawberries in wine. 

Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a 
wide mouthed bottle, and strew in three large spoonfuls of 
fine sugar ; fill up with Madeira wine, or fine sherry. 
To dry Cherries with Sugar. 

Stone six pounds of English hearts; put them into a 



214 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

preserving-pan, with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded and 
strewed among them ; simmer till they begin to shrivel ; 
then strain them from the juice; lay them on a hot hearth, 
or in an oven, when either is cool enough to" dry without 
baking them, 

The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit 
To dry Cherries without Sugar. 

Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserring-pan 
let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in 
the pan. Put them by in China common dishes ; next 
day give them another scald, and put them, when cold, on 
sieves to dry, in an oven of atemperated heat as above. 
Twice heating, ej* hour each time, will do them. 

Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. 
To dry Cherries the best way. 

To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of 
sugar double-refined. Put the fruit into the preserving- 
pan with very little water, make both scalding hot : take 
the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them into 
the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of 
cherries ; let it stand to melt ; then set the pan on the fire, 
and make it scalding hot as before ; take it off; and repeat 
this thrice with the sugar. r Drainthem from the syrup; 
and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a 
stove. When dry put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan 
of cold water, and draw it instantly out again, and pour 
them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set them once 
more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, 
with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way ia 
the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour 
and flavour. 

Cherries in Brandy. 

Weigh the finest, having cut off half the stalk ; prick 
them with a new needle, and drop them into a jar or wide- 
mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight of su- 
gar or white candy; strew over: fill up with brandy, and 
tie a bladder over. 

Cherry Jam. 

To twelve pounds of sour or duke cherries, when ripe, 
weigh one pound of sugar ; break the stones of part, and 
blanch them ; then put them to the fruit and sugar, and boil 
all gently till the jam comesclear from the pan. Pour it into 






L, 



SWEETMEATS. 



2ltf" 



China plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes 
tvith white paper between. 

Currant Jam, black, red\ or trihite. i 

Let the fruit be veiy ripe, pick it clean from the stalks 
bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound 
of loaf-sugar ; stir it well and boil half an hour. 

Currant Jelly, red or black. 

Strip the fruit,and in a stone jar strew them in a sauce-pan 
of water, or by boiling it on the hot heafth ; strain off the 
liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf-sugar; put 
the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or china vessel, 
till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserving pan ; sim- 
mer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate 
put it in small jars or glasses. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Scald apples till they will pulp from the core : then 
take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip them 
in the water, and boiling it till it can be well skimmed, 
and is a thick syrup; put to it the pulp, and simmer it on 
a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon- 
peel before boiled, but if too muph it will be bitter. 
Apple Jelly for preserving Peaches, or for any sort of 

Sweetmeats. 

Let apples be pared quartered, and cored ;,puttbem into 
"a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them ; boil 
as fast as possible when the fruit is all in a mash, add a quart 
of Water * r boil half an hour more, and run through a jel- 
ly bag. 

If in summer, use any kind; in September, golden or 
winter-pippins are best. 

- Red Apples in Jelly. * 

Pare and core some well shaped apples; pippins if you 
have them, but others will do ; throw them into water as 
you do them; put them in a preserving-pan, and with as 
little water as will only half cover tbem ; let them cod* 
die, and when the lower side is done turn them. Observe 
that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix 
some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with 
the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the 
dish they are^to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take 
the water, and make a rich jelly of it with loaf sugar, boil- 

T / 



210 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

iog the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a 
jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples; 
cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across 
ihe eye of the apple. 

Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the 
fruit will not afterwards gain it; and use as little of the 
cochineal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. 

Dried Apples. 

Put them in a £ool oven six or seven times, and flatten 
tliein by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear h. 
If the oven be too hot they will waste ; and at first it should 
be very cooj. 

The crab, or any tart apples, are the sort for drying. 
To preserve Pears most beautifully. 

Fare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup; let 
them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and sim- 
mer again ; and repeat this till they are clear; then drain, 
and dry them in the s^n or a cool oven a very* little time. 
They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which 
makes them more moist and rich. 

Gooseberry Jam for "Tarts. 

Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when 
ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a preserving-part, 
with a pint of currant juice, drawn as for jelly ; let them 
boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon ; when 
they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white 
sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boil- 
ing, or will not keep ; but is an excellent and reasonable 
thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, 
and if the syrupand fruit separate, the whole must be 
boiled longer. »e careful it does not burn to the bottom. 

Another. — Gather your gooseberries (the clear white 
or green sort) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them ; 
a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half 
a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar and 'water ; then 
put the fruit, and boij gently till clear : then break, and 
put into small pots. 

White Gooseberry jam. 

Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you 
choose, when just ripe ; top and tail them. To each pound 
put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint 



"-f* 



SWEETMEATS. 217 

of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as di- 
rected in page 208 : then add the fruit ; simmer gently 
till clear, tnen break it, and in a few minutes put the jam 
into small pots. 

Gooseberry Hops. 

Of the largest green kind, take and cut the bud end iu 
four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole; pick out the 
seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or 
six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, 
till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine-leaves at the 
bottom of a tin preserving-pan, cover them with the hops, 
then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the 
top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down 
that no steam can get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding 
hot, then take it off till «old, and so do till, on opening 
while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. Then 
drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound 
of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well ; when 
half cold, put in the fruit ; next day give it one boil ; do 
this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way (hey 
eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week ; 
but if to be kept wet,make a syrup in the above proportions, 
adding a slice of ginger in foiling; when:, skimmed and 
clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold pour 
,it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a little 
sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that 
are for drying have their last boil. 

The extra^yrup will serve for pies, or go towards 
tier sweetmeats. 

Raspberry Jam. I 

Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; put the for- 
mer into a preserving-pan, boil arid break it, stir constantly, 
and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is 
wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. 

This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and fla- 
vour to that which is made by putting the sugar in at first, 

Another way. — Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of wa- 
ter, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then 
take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit ; 
boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of 
the fruit in sugar, and adding the same quantity of currant- 
juice, boil it to a strong jelly. 



1 



£}ft DOMIBTIC COOKWY. 

The raspberry-juice wil serve to put into brandy, or may 
fee boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly for 
raspberry-ice or cream, . 

To preserve Greengages. 

Choose the largest, when tliey begin to soften; split 
them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which 
you have previously weighed an equal quantity of* Blanch 
the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pout* 
the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, 
six or eight minutes, very gently ; skim and add the plums 
and kernels. . Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that 
rises; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the sy- 
rup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add 
the syrup, but observe the directions that will be given for- 
candying fruit ; some may be done each way. 

Damson cheese. 

Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan of 
water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, 
and to every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sw 
gar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quick- 
ly till it begin to look dry.: take out the stones, and add 
the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly^ 
then boil it quj«kiy half an hour, till the sides of the pan 
candy; pour the jam then into potting-paos or dishes 
about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins 
be disliked, then the juke is not to be taken out; but af- 
ter the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a ve- 
ry coarse sieve with the juice, and .managed as above. 
The stones are to be cracked, or some of them and the 
kernels boiled in the jam. All the juke may be left in, and 
boiled to evaporate, but don't add the sugar until it has 
done so. The above looks well in shapes. 

Plum Cheese. 

Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, re- 
move the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour 
half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Iiisboa; 
when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add 
the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juke is much 
evaporated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. 
Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or saucers. The re- 
maining juke may serve to colour cream, or be added to 
a pie. 



IJi^FTOWOI ■■ "-- »- - "WF — \" T •; -—•t—t -—.---- v- — - - ■»■••- •««»■ ,■ - - , jq; .-, — w — ~J~SMf ^'■g 



ttfftBTMBATS. 219 

Biscuits of Fruit. 
To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal weight of 
sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into little white 
paper forms, dry in a cool oven, ttarn the next day, and in 
two or three days box them. 

Bell Pear, or Quince* Marmalade. 
, Pare and quarter, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to 
four pounds of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, 
and have ready against four pounds of fruit are tolerably 
tender, by the following mode : lay them into a stone jar, 
with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack them with 
a little sugar strewed between ; cover the jar close, and 
set it on a stove or cool oven, amf let them soften till the 
colour becomes red ; then pour the fruit-syrup and a quatt 
- of quince-juke into a preserving-pan, and boil all together 
till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of 
fruit with the preserving-ladle. 

The fruits are«o hard, that if they be not done as above, 
they require a great deal of time. 

Stewing quinces in a jar, and theu squeezing them 
through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the 
juice to add as above : and dip the cloth in boiling water 
first and wring it* 

To preserve whole or half Quinces. 
Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the 
fairest golden pippins, in slices not yery thin, and not par* 
ed, but wiped clean. Boil them very quick, close cover- 
ed, -till the water becomes a thick jelly ; then scald the 
quinces. To every pint of pippin-jelly put a pound of the 
fineBt sugar ; boil it, and skim it clear. Put those quin- 
ces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once and 
let it boil very fast; and those that are to be in halves by* 
themselves ; skim it, and when the fruit is clear, put some 
of the syrup into a glass to try whether it jellies before 
taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a 
pound to?a pound of sugar, and a "pound of jelly already 
boiled with the sugar. 
Excellent Sweetmeats for Tarts* when Fruit is * plentiful. 
J Divide two pojrodg'of peaches when just ripe, and take 
tut and break the stones; put the kernels without their 
I skins to the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage 
f * T 2 



k 



i 



TH .^lP — l "- "- ■''■ ' ■.— T r^—r—-^' .-" — w^* 



22* DOMESTIC OOOKAJtY. 

plums, and two pounds and a half of lump-sugar;, simmer 
until die fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be broken 
in lar*e pieces, and just dipped in water, and added to tkst 
fruit over a slow (ire. Observe that it does not boil, and 
skim it well. If the sugar be clarified it will make the jam 
better. 

Pat it into small pots, in which all sweetmeat* keep best*. 
Plums: excellent as a Sweetmeat or in Tarts, * 

Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer 
taem very gently in a thio syrup, put them in a ChiftabaaU* 
and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days ; then 
inake a ay rap of three pounds of sugar to five of fruit* with) 
no* more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dip* 
fed quickly, and instantly brought out Boil the pkuna 
in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. " Be* 
diem very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres 
to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pout 
the liquor over* Those you may like to dry, keep a little 
of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly \ 
then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and pot them to 
dry on plates in a cool oven* Plums are apt to ferment, if 
not boiled in two syrups; the former will sweeten piea, but 
will have too much acid to keepi You may reserve part 
of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry ; fan 
they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet* and wilk 
eat very nicely if onlj boiled as much as those, 
break them. One parcel may be done after another, 
save much sugar. 

Lemon Dxops. 

Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double* 
reftaed sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate* add half 
a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into * light? 
paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white papery 
and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plates ; 

Gmger Drops: a -good Stomaekte. 

Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a> mortar^. 
with a little sugar, to a paste ; then mis one ounce ofpow*> 
der of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar ; wet the? 
sugar with a little water, and boil att together to a candy, 
and drop it on paper the size of mint drops. 

Peppermint Drops. 
Found and sift fear ounces of double-refined sugar, besf 



*UBXRVSS« 221 

U with the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth; Ihca 
add sixty 4f ops of oil of peppermiut>beat it well, and drop 
on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire* 

Batafia Drops. 

Blancband beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and 
two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of 
mar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar* and the 
whites of two eggs, malting a paste; of which put little, 
bails* the tree of a nutmeg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently: 
on tin plates. 

Raspberry Cakes. 

Pick out the bad. that are among the fruit, weigh and boil 
what quantity you please, and when mashed, and the liquor 
is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first 
put into the pan* mis it well offtbe fire until perfectly dis- 
solved* then put it on china plates, and dry it in the sun. 
As soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a can- 
ister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and when 
dry, put them in boxes, with layers of paper. 

TO PBBSKBVB FRUITS FOR WINTER USE* 

Observations, on Sweetmeats* 
%reeto*eate should be kept carefully from the air, and 
in a very, dry place. Unless they have a very small pro- 
portion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt ; but wheu not 
prnperly boiled (that is long enough* but not quick), heat 
makes them ferment; and damp causes them to grow 
mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in 
the first two months, that they may be gently boiled agaio, 
if not likely to keep. 

It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar more 
or leas, constitutes the chief art of the confectioner ; and 
those who are not practised in this knowledge, and only 
preserve in a plain way for family use* are not aware that 
in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will pass 
ftom one gradation to another, called by Ihe confectioner* 
degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and those sub- 
divided. But I am not versed in the minutiae, and only 
make the observation to guard against under-boiling, which 

itveventa sweetmeats from keeping; and quick boiling and 
ong, which brings them Jo candy. 

Attention without much practice, wiH enable a person 
thdp any of the following sorts of sw^teeatB, <fcc. and they 



222 DOMESTIC COOXEBT. 

ere as much as is wanted in a private-family : the high e r 
articles of preserved finite may be bought at less expense 1 
than made. . 

Jellies of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar,, that 
is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. 

A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving; of 
double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight • 
one for safety, will do very well : and if put by nicely 
cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for ae* 
vera! years. Those of copper or tpass are improper, a* 
the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetmeat*!** „ 
die. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinning; 
which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should 
be kept likewise for sweet things. 

Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not connected 
with a wall. If there be the least damp cover them outy 
with paper dipped in brandy, laid quit close ; putting a 
little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect-mould. 

When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the 
sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where 
there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in 
the sun on flag-stones, wjiich reflect the heat, and plaoa a : 
garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if put in an 
oveo, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch 
that they do properly and slowly. 

To keep Currants. 

The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the cur* 
&nts be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of 
stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded no moisture 
may be among them. It is necessary to gather them when 
the weather is quite dry; and if the servant can be de- 
pended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let 
mem drop gently into the bottles. ] 

Stop up the bottles with cork and rosin, and put them in- 
to the trench in the garden with the neck downwards ?< 
sticks should be placed opposite to where each sort of fruit 
begins. 

Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. 

Currants may be scalded, as directed for gooseberries, 
the first method. 

To keep Gooseberries* 

Before they become too large, let them be gathered, and 



i 

4 



1 i alp 






PRESERVES. 223 

I take cafe not to cat them in taking off the stalks and buds. 
i Fill wide-mouthed bottles : put the corks loosely in, and 
set the bottles up to.the neck in water in a boiler. When 
I the fruit looks scalded, take them out; and when perfectly 
cold, cork close, and rosin the top. Dig a trench in a part 
i of the garden least used, sufficiently deep for all the bottles 
i to stand, and let the earth be thrown over, to cover them a 
i foot and a half. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter 
from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so 
that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, scald as above ; when 
cold/ fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep 
~ then in a damp or dry place; they will not be spoiled. 
Another nay.— In the size and preparation as above ; 
when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler 
or large kettle; and put into it as much roach-allum as 
wHl, when dissolved, harden the water which you will 
taste by a little roughness ; if there be too much it will 
spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a large 
Sieve as will lie at the bottom without covering one an- 
other. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins 
to, look'scalded on the outside ; then turn them gently out 
of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with 
another cloth, and put 6ome more to be scalded, and so 
on till all be finished. Observe.not to put one quantity on 
another, or they will become too soft. The next day pick 
out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the 
bottles with the allum-water in which they were scalded? 
which roust be kept in the bottles ; for if left in the kettle, 
or, in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. 

The water must boil all the time the process is carry* 
ingon. Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts a» 
fresh off the trees. ' 

Another way. — In dry weather pick the gooseberries 
that are full grown, but not ripe ; top and tail them, and 
put into open-mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with new- 
velvet corks; put them in the oven when the bread is • 
drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; take 
them out of the oven, and immediately beat the corks in 
tight, out off the tops, and rosin down close ; set them in a 
dry place ; , and if well secured from air they will keep tbfc 
year round. 



224 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



If gathered iii the damp, or the gooseberries' skins are 
the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they viU 
mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keeping, 
and do them before the seeds become large. 

Currants and damsons may be done the same. 
To keep Damsons for winter Ties. 

Put them in small stone jars, or wide mouthed bottles; 
set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold w^ater, and 
lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when perfect- 
ly cold, fill up with spring water ; cover them. 

Another way. — Boil one third as much sugar as fruit 
with it,. over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to* the 
fruit and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place 
if too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done with- 
out sugar. 

To preserve Fruit for Taris y or Family-desserts* 

Cherries, plums of all sorts, and apples, gather when 
ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound; 
strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf-sugar pound* 
ed; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down : 
then set the jars in a large stew-pan of water up to the 
neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and 
all other sorts of fruit free from damp. 

To keep Lemon-juice. 

Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place two ' 
•r three days: if too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the 
peel off some, and roll thera under your hand to make 
them part with the juice more readily ; others you may 
leave unparedfor grating, when the pulp shall be taken 
out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin; 
then strain it through some muslin which will not permit 
the least pulp to pass. Have ready half and 'quarter 
ounce phials perfectly dry; fill them with the juice so 
near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet 
oil intoeach; or a little more, if for larger bottles. Cor,k 
the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. 

When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as 
you shall use in two or three days ; wind some clean cot- 
ton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be at- 
tracted ; and when all shall be removed, the juice will be, 
a* fine as when first fcottled. 



PRESERVES. ft2& * 

Hang the peek up till dry ; then keep them from the 
dust. 

Orange juice. A very useful thing to mix with water 
. . m Fevers, when the fresh juice cannot be procured. 

Squeeze from the finest fruit, a pint of juice strained 
through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quar- 
ters of a pound of double-refined sugar twenty minutes : 
when cold, put it in small bottles. 

Different ways of dressing Cranberries. 

For pies and puddings, with a good deal of sugar. 

Stewed in a jar, with the same ; which way they eat 
well with bread, and are very wholesome. 

Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine 
drink for people in fevers. 

Orgeat. 

Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, 
sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold; then pour it 
by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter, 
that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a lit- 
tle water to prevent oiling; boil all together, and stir till . 
cold, then add half a glass of brandy. 

Another way. — Blanch and pound three quarters of a 
pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of 
water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three 
of milk, and strain the whole througli a cloth. Dissolve 
half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and 
8kim it well ; mix it with the rither, as likewise two spoon- 
fuls of orange-flower water, and' a tea-cupful of the best 
brandy. 

Lemonade, to be made a day before wanted. 

Pare two dozen of tolerably-sized lemons as thin as 
possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, 
not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four 
hours. Rub some fine smgar on the lemons to attract the \ 

essence, and put it into a China-bowl, into which squeeze 
the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half 
of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three 
quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a 
jelly-bag till perfectly clear. 

Another way. — Pare a number of lemons according to 
the quantity you are likely to want; on the peels poor 



i 



226 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

hot water, but more juice will foe .necessary thanyofc need 
use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and water to 
a good syrup with the white of an egg whipt up ; when it 
boils, pour a little cold water into it ; set it on again, and 
when it boils up take the pan of£ and set it to settle. If 
there is any scum, take it off, and pour it clear from the 
sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the 
lemon-juice ; stir and taste it, and add as much more wa- 
ter as shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. 
Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, 
which is uncommonly fine. 
Lemonade that has the flavour and appearance of JeUy. 

Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as pos- 
sible, and steep them four horns in a quart of hot water. 
Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of 
water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six 
fine oranges, and twelve lemons : stir the whole well, and 
run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little 
orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if panted, more 
sugar. It will keep well if corked. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put a pound of fine fruit into a China bowl, and pour ( 
upon it a quart of the best white wine vinegar; next day j 
strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries ; and the • 
following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, 
only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it The last 
time pass it through a canvas previously wet with vinegar, 
to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar with a pound of su- 
gar to every pint of juice, broken into large lumps ; stir it 
When melted, then put the jar into a sauce-pan of water, 
or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and skim it. When cold 
bottle it. 

This is one of the most useful preparations that can be 
kept in a bouse, not only as affoVding the most refreshing 
beverage, but being' of singular efficacy in complaints of 
the chest. A large spoonful or two in a tumbler of water. 
Be careful to use no glazed nor metal vessel for it 

The fruit with an equa! quantity of sugar, makes excel- 
lent Raspberry Cakes without boiling. 



-_—■•- ■■- ■ ■ - ■ — — Maa^^fei mm*f~-* 



±a ----.+- JZ. 



V»" 



CAX&St 227 



P^I*T IX. 

tSSSaSBSSSBSSEBS 

CAKES, BREAD, &c. 

Observations on making and baking Cakes. 

CURRANTS should be very nicely washed, dried in 
a cloth, and then set before the fire. If damp they will 
make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are added, 
a dust of dry flour should be thrown among them* and a 
shake given to them, which causes the thing that they are 
put to, to be lighter. 

Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolksLapart 
aud always strained. 

' Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, 
and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn sieve. 

Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little 
sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mis- 
ed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily 
among the other ingredients. 

After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be 
thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake 
depends much on their being well incorporated. 

Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less 
butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and 
rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and 
yeast, it becomes more tough, and is less easily divided, 
than if the butter be first put with those ingredients, and 
the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. 

The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, 
especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the 
batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by be- 
fog too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent 
its being burnt If not long enough lighted to have a body 
of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To 
know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is 
very bright, and plunge it into the very centre, draw it 

U 



L 



226 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

instantly out, andtif the least stickiness adheres, put the 
cake immediately in and shut up the oven. 

If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have 
with great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept 
the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking, 
and they turned out extremely well. But those who are 
employed, ought to be particularly careful that no mistake 
occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. 

Iceing for Calces. 

For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine su- 
gar, put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of rose-water, 
and the whites of two eggs beaten and strained, whisk it 
well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in 
the iceing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to 
harden, but dont let it stay to discolour. Put the cake 
into a dry place. 

To Ice a very large Cake* 

-Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then by degrees 
beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn- 
sieve ;,mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the for- 
mer enough to flavour, and no more, i Whisk it for three 
hours till die mixture is thick and white; then with a thin 
broad bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, aim 
aet it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. 

A common Cake* 

Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound 
of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce 
of caraways, ami a glass of raisin wine. Beat it well, 
and bake in a quick oven. Fine Lisbon sugar will do. 

A very good common Cake 

Rub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried 
flour; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast that is not bit- 
ter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half; then mix in 
the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one pound 
of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness (about 
a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of 
a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound 
of currants, or some caraways, and beat well. 

An excellent Cake* 

Rub two pounds of dry fine flour, with one of butter, 



CAKE*. 220 

washed in plain and rose-water, mix it with three spoon- 
fuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to 
rise an hour and a half before the lire ; then beat into 
it two ponnds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four 
ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins, chopped 
fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves 
the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass 
of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs 
beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. 
Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick 
oven. 

A very fine Cake. 

Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in water 
first, and then in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream ; 
beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an 
hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the 
finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a pound 
and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice 
in finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely cleaned 
and dry, half a pound of almonds blanched, and three 
quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut not too thin. Let 
all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry ingredients; pour 
the eggs strained to the butter; mix half a pint of sweet 
wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the but- 
ter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things 
put in by degrees ; beat them very thoroughly, you can 
hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of -stoned 
jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them careful- 
ly, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful 
of orange-flower water. Beat the ingredients together 
a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered or, if 
you have none, a tin or copper cake- pan ; take a white 
paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the 
edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts for 
space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick 
oven. It will require three hours. 

. Raid drop Cakes. 

Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto su- 
gar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then wet into a 
stiff paste with two eggs, a large spoon of orange-flower 
water, ditto rose-water, ditto' sweet wine, ditto brandy, 
drop on a tin plate floured ; a very short time bakes them.. 



239 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Flat Cakes, that mil keep hug in the house gdad. 

Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one 
ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoon- 
fuls of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, and cut 
it into any shape. Bake on tins lightly floured. While 
baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a this * 
syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put 
them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and 
when (he oven is cooler still, return them there again, and 
let them stay four or five hours. 

Little white Cake*. 

Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little poun* 
ded sugar, one ounce of butter, one -egg, a few caraways, 
and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; roll it 
thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake 
fifteen minutes on tin plates. 

Little Short Cakes. 
v Bub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of batter, 
four ounces of white powder sugar, one egg, and a spoon* 
ful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When 
mixed, put currants into one halt and caraways into the 
rest. Cot them as before, and bake on tins. 

Plum Cakes. 

Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour, well 
dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf-sugar, three 
pounds of currants washed and very dry, half a pound of 
raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mat£ 
and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the 
peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of * 
almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. 
Melt two pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, 
but not hot ; put to it a pint of sweet wine, a glass of bran- 
dy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs beaten apart, and 
half a pint of good yeast. Strain this liquid by degrees- 
into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour, ' 
then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As you put the 
batter into the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, le- * 
mon, and orange-candy. 

If you ice th^ cake, take half a pound of double-refined 
sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an egg^ beat 
it well, and by degrees pour in the remainder. It must be 
whisked near an hour, with the addition of a little orange- 



.^i^— ^ ^. "'^*** 



»w 



^F 



OAXES. 3gl 

flower water, but mind not to put much. When the cake 
is done, pour the,iceing over, and return it to the oven for 
fifteen minutes ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the 
mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. 

Another. — J? lour dried, and currants washed and pick- 
ed, four pounds ; sugar pounded and sifted, one pound and 
a half ; six orange, lemon, and citron peels, cut in slices $ 
mix these. 

Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately; then melt 
a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when 
lukewarm, put . it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a 
pint of sweet wine, and the eggs ; then strain the liquid to 
the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, ' 
mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter 
the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will 
bake it « 

Very good common Plum Cakes. 
, Mix fire ounces of butter in three pounds~6f dry flour, 
and five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar ; add six ounces of 
currants, washed and dried, and some pimento, finely pow- 
dered. Put three spoonfuls of yeast into a Winchester 
pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with 
the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a flour- 
ed tin half an hour. 

Little Plum Cakes to keep long* 

Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces offing 
ly-pounded sugar; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, 
and add to three eggs, well beaten, half a pound of currants 
washed, and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar; beat 
all for some time, then dredge flour on tin plates, and drop 
the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mix* 
ed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake in a brisk oven. 

A good pound Cake. 

Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the 
whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready * 

warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted 
sugar, mix them and a few cloves, a little nutmeg and cin- 
namon in fine powder together : then by degrees work 
the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well 
beaten add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must 



H 2 



i 



I 



232 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a fall hour 
Ib a quick oven. 

The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the 
butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, 
and to most tastes amore pleasant one. 

A ehekp Seed C*ke. 

Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound of 
sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a -tittle giav 
ger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a 
pint of milk ; when just warm, put to it a quarter of si pint 
of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand be- 
fore the fire a few minuter before it goes to the oven; add 
feeds, or currants, and bake an hour and a half. 

Another.— Mi* a pound and a half of flour, and a posed 
of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, as 
ounce of seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of 
milk and water. 

Note. — Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to diy* 

Common Bread Cake. 

Take the quantity of a loaf from the dough, when ma* 
king white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of 
butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm 
the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. 

By the addition of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg 
or two, you may make the cake the better. A tea-cupful 
of raw cream improves it much, It is best to bake it in a 
pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. 

Queen Cakes. 

Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and 
•f washed clean currants. Wash a pound of butter ia rose- 
water, beat it well, then mix with Height eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients 
by degrees; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins* 
tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only 
half. Sift a litle fine sugar over just as you pat into the 
©yen. 

Another hhsv.— Beat eight ounees of butter, and rah? 
with two well beaten eggs, strained ; mix eight ounces of 
dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and the grated Hod 
of a lemon ; then add the whole together, and beat full 
half an hour with a silver-spoon. Butter small pattypans* 
half fill; and bake twetity minutes in a quick ovenv 






* 



CXKtLB. 283 

Shrewsbury Cakes* 

Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a 
nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the finest sort ; 
add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and .mix 
these with the flour, &c. then pour into it as much butter 
melted as will make it a good thickness to roll out. 

Mould it wel^ and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes 
as you like. 

Tunbridge Cakes. 

Rub six ounces of butter quite foe, into a pound of flour, 
then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and 
inake with the above into a paste. Roll it very thin, and 
cut with the top of a glass; prick them with a fork, and 
cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an cggi 
and dust a little white sugar over. 

Savannah Rice Cakes* 

Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, 
eight ounces of pounded sugar; then silt by degrees into 
eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon 
shred so fine that it is quite mashed ; mix the whole well 
in a tin stew-pan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then 
put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake 
•forty minutes. 

Another.-** Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs 
with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of 
flour of rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar 
pounded and sifted ; then beat it well with the eggs by de- 
• grees, for an hour, with a wooden spoon. Butter a pan 
well, and put it in at the oven-mouth. 

A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. 

Water Cakes, 

Dry three pound* of fine flour, and rub into it one pound 
of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of cara- 
way seed. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a 
pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the 
sfee you choose : punch full of holes, and, bake on tin- 
plates in a cooloven. 

Sponge Cake. 

Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar* 
and that of six in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, 
tod the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees' 



$J)4 bdMESTIC COOKBBT. 

* 

mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, 
and beat them well half an hour. Bake iu a quick ovea 
an hour. < 

Another, nritiuntt buttcr.-~-Dry one pound of flour, and 
one and a quarter of sugar : beat seven iggg, yolks and 
whites apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of bran* 
dy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. 
Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oven. 
' Sweetmeats may be added, if approved. 

Tea Cakes. 

Rub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of 
flour : mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine Lis- 
bon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoon- 
ful of brandy. Roll the paste the thickness of a biscuit, 
and cut with a wine-glass. You may beat the other white 
and wash over them : and either dust sugar, or not, as you 
like. 

Tea Cakes. 

Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter, and milk ; roll 
98 thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, 
or on a hot hearth. 

Another sort> as biscuits. — Rub into a pound of flour 
six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, ■ 
and make into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new 
milk ; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean 
fork. 

Another sort. — Melt six or seven ounces of butter, with 
a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds 
of flour into a stiff paste ; roll thin, and make into biscuits. 

Savoy Biscuit. 

Take the whites and the yolks of four eggs, beat them 
separately to a high froth, dilute the yolks with water, 
and turn in with the whites, continue beating altogether, 
add half a pound of sugar in fine powder and beat again. 
Now add four ounces of superfine flour by beating it well 
in. Then dress them on a sheet of white paper in any 
shape you please, ice them over with sugar in powder to 
prevent running into each other. Bake on a copper or tin 
plate in, a moderate oven, tending them carefully. They 
are done in, a short time. 

A Biscuit Cake. 

One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained^ 



CAKES. 235 

right ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange flower water ; 
beat the whole thoroughly, and bake one hour. 

Naples Biscuit 

Take one pound and a half Lisbon or Havanna sugar, 
put into a little copper or tin sauce-pan, with three gills of 
water, and a tea-cupful of orange-water; boil till all the 
sugar is melted ; break twelve eggs, whisk them well, pour 
the syrup boiling hot in with the eggs, whisk them as fast 
as you can while pouring it in, or the eggs wHl spoil, and 
keep whisking it till quite cold, and set ; take one pound 
and a half of superfine flour and mix in as light as possible 
then put two sheets of paper on the copper or tin plate ' 
you bake upon. Make the edges of one sheet of paper 
stand up about an inch and a half high, and pour your bat- 
ter in it, sift powdered sugar over to prevent burning on 
the top. Do not leave the oven a minute when you think 
it is near baked enough. When done, take it out and let 
it stand in the paper till cold, then turn it over, and damp 
the paper till it comes off with ease, then cut in what size 
you like. 

You may bake in small tuts if you please. 

Macaroons. 

Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of four 
eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, sifted, 
with the almonds to a paste ; and laying a sheet of wafer- 
paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape 
Ofnracarooim. 

Wafers, as done at Newark. » 

Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a lit- 
tle pounded sugar and finely pounded mace with it ; then 
make it into a thick batter with cream : butter the wafer- 
irons, let them be hot ; put a tea-spoonful of the batter into 
them, mso t>ake them carefully, and roll them off the iron 
with a stick. 

Crack Nuts- 
Mix eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar ; 
melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin or 
currant wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, 
make into a paste ; add caraways, roll out as thin as pa- 
per, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an 
egg, and dust sugar over. 



230 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Cracknels. 

Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the 
yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll in a pound 
of butter, and make them into a shape; put them into a 
kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, then 
take out, and put them into cold water ; when hardened, 
lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. 
A good plain Bun, that may be eaten with or without 

toasting and butter. 

Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, 
Tour ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a 
few Jamaica peppers : a dessert spoonful of caraways ; 
put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and 
as much good milk as will make the above into a light 
paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. 
They will quickly bake on tins. 

Rich Buns. 

Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a 
pound of sugar ; melt a pound and two ounces of butter 
in a little warm water : add six spoonfuls of rose water, 
and knead the above iflto a light dough, with half a pint 
of yeast ; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and 
put some on them. 

Gingerbread. 

Mix with two pounds of flour, half a pound of molasses, 
three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of gin- 
ger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. 

Roll the parte into what form you please, and bake on 
tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. 

If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied ; it may be 
added in small bits. 

Another sort. — To three quarters of a pound of treacle 
beat one egg strained ; mix four ounces of brown sugar, 
half an ounce of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice, 
and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possi- 
ble : coriander and caraway seeds, each a quarter of an 
ounce ; melt one pound of butter, and mix with the above ; 
and add as much flour as will kilead into a pretty stiff 
paste ; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. 

Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. A little time wilt 
bake them. 



"" "1 I ' T " I ' MM W I 



CAKES, &C 23? 

Of some, drops may be made. 

A good plain sort* — Mix three pounds of flour with 
half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half 
an ounce of pounded ginger : then make into a paste with 
ope pound and a quarter of molasses warm. 

A good sort without butter. — Mix two pounds of molas- 
ses, of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each 
four ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander 
seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten 
ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in 
cakes on tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it 
dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for 
some months. 

Note. If cake or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, 
the taste wuT be disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tu- 
reen, will preserve them long and moist. Or if to be 
crisp, laying them before the (ire will make them so. 

Rusks. 
y Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new 
milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter; 
add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of 
sugar, and put them, by degrees, ioto as much flour as will 
make a very light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise 
before the fire naif an hour ; then add some more flour, to 
make it a little sthTer, but not stiff. Work it well, and 
divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six 
inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, 
slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven 
to brown a little. • 

Note. The . cakes, When first baked, eat deliciously 
buttered for tea; or, with caraways, to eat cold. 

Johnny, or Hoe Cake, as made in Connecticut. 

Scald one quart of milk, and put it to three pints of In- 
dian meal, and half a pint fine flour, salt, sweeten and bake 
in a pan before the fire. 

Slap Jacks, much admired in the eastern states. 

Mix one pint of Indian meal, and four spoonfuls flour, 
into one quart of new milk ; add four eggs and a little salt 
Bake on a griddle as buckwheat cakes, and serve hot and 
hot with fresh butter. 

To make Yeart. 

Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three 



23$ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

spoonfuls ; boil balf an hour, sweeten with near half a 
pound of brown sugar; when near cold, put into it four 
spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, 
and let it stand one day to ferment near the lire, without 
being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, 
-which must be poured off; shake the remainder, and cork 
it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to 
ferment the next quantity, keeping n\ always in succession. 

A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. 

Another way. — Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash; 
when halfcold, adda cupful of yeast, and mix it well. 

It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and 
keeps well. 

Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer- 
yeast. 

To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, 
and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm wa- 
ter with it. 

To make Bread. 

Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is began 
to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into a 
trough, or kneading tub j mix with it between four and five 
quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast, 
put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hamfe till 
it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty 
minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it foils, adid 
four quarts more of warm water, and half a pound of salt; 
work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the fire 
then into the oven ; and by the time it is warm enough, 
the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five 
pounds each ; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, 
and put in the bread ; shut it up close, and two hours and 
a half will bake it. In the summer the water should be 
milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather 
as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scald- 
ing, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the 
crust will be very nice. 

The oven should be round, not long ; the roof from 
twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and 
the door of iron, to shut close. This construction wiH 
save firing and time, and bake better than long and high- 
roofed ovens. 



B1UEAI>, &c. 239 

Rolls, muffins, or any sort of breftd, may be Blade to 
taste new when two or three days old , by dipping them 
uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. 

Economical Bread. 

Only the coarse flake bran to be removed from the flour: 
of this take Ave pounds, and boil it in rather more than 
four gallons of water; so that when perfectly smooth, you 
may have three gallons and three quarts of bran water 
clear. With this knead fifty-six pounds of the flour, ad- 
ding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for 
other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, 
and bake them two hours and a half. 

Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of bran- 
water than of plain ; so that it not only produces a ntore 
nutritious substantial food, but makes an increase of 'one- 
fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which is a saving of 
one day's consumption out of six. The same quantity of 
flour which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nine 
pounds eight ounces of bread, will, in the above way, 
. make eighty-three pounds eight ounces and gain fourteen 
pounds., When ten days old, if put into the oven treaty 
minutes, this bread will appear quite new again. 
Carolina Rice-and-wheat Bread. 

Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it be- 
comes perfectly soft ; when it is of a proper warmth, mix 
it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and 
salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls 
knead it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the fire. 
Some ,of the flour should be reserved to makeup the 
loaves. Eight pounds and a half of exceeding good bread 
will be produced. If the rice should require more water, 
it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. 

French Bread. 

With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of 
three and whites of twaeggs, beaten and strained, a little 
salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much 
milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light 
dough. Stir it about, but don't knead it. Have ready 
three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, 
set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must 
be quick. 

X 



240 DOMESTIC COOKEUY. 

To discover whether Bread has been adulterated nith 

ashes, rvhiting or chalk* 

Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and if this 
puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain it 
has a mixture of alkaline particles ; and these are some- 
times in large quantities in bakers' bread. 

Excellent Rolls. 

Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put to 
it a spoonful and a half of yeast of beer, and a little salt 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. 
Let it rise an hour ; knead it well ; make into seven rolls, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

It may be made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and 
buttered. 

The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saf- 
fron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes them re- 
markably good. 

French Rolls. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix one 
egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much 
milk as will make a dough of a middling stiffness. Beat 
it well, but do not knead ; let it rise, and bake on tins. 

Rolls. 

Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of 
sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with 
two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Knead 
the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
twelve, rolls, butter tin-plates, and set them before the fire 
to rise, till they become of a proper size ; then bake hall 
an hour. 

Potatoe Rolls. 

Boil three pounds- of potatoes, bruise and work them 
with two ounces butter, and as much milk as will make 
them pass through a colander. Take half or three Star- 
ters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water, mix 
with the potatoes, then pour the whole upon five pounds of 
flour, and add some salt. Knead it well ; if not of a pro- 
per consistence, put a little more milk and water warm ; 
let it stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, 
and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven 
cot quite so hot as for bread; 



HOME-BREWERY, v 341 

Muffins. 

Mix two pounds of flour with two eggs, two ounces of 

* butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonfuls 

of yeast : beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or three 

hours. Bake on a hot hearth, in flat cakes. When done 

on one side turn them. 

Note, ^ Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to 
taste new, by dipping in cold water, and toasting, or heat- 
ting in an oven, till the outside be crisp. 

Yorkshire Cakes* 

Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces 
of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls 
of yeast, and two eggs ; beat all well together, and let 
it rise; then knead it, and make into cakes; let them 
rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. 

Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. 
The first sort is shorter; the last lighter. 

Hard Biscuits. 

Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk 
as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat 
it with a rolling pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it 
thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of 
holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. 
Plain and very crisp>Biscuits. 

Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some 
milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till 
quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bak§ 
ttiem in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 



PART X. 



HOME-BREWERY, WINES, &e. 

. To brew very fine Ale* 
POUR forty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite 
boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand 
three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops 
in a little hot water, and put the water and hops into the 
tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together 
three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the mall 



4 



242 domestic cookery. 

beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to 
receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or, if you 
cannot get it, of small beer yeast Mix it thoroughly and 
often. When the wort has done working, the second or 
third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise in the mid- 
dle ; remove it then, and turn the ale as it works out ; pour 
a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermenta- 
tion from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. 
Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days be- 
fore stopping up. 

Strong beer, or Ale. 

Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer (or four- 
teen if you wish it of a very good body) .eight for ale ; for 
either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boil- 
ing, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered ; 
mash it in the first half hour,, and let it stand the remainder 
of the time. Run it on the bops previously infused in wa- 
ter ; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; 
if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours 
from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add two 
quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the 
rest when ready next day ; but if possible put together the 
same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with pa- 
per when the beer lias, done working ; and when it is to be 
stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried be- 
fore the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. 

Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve in bot- 
tles, before it be drank. It will keep, and be very fine, eight 
or ten years. It should be brewed the beginning of March. 

Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly 
prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. 

The ale will be ready in three or four months ; and if 
the vent-peg be never removed, it will have spirit and 
strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at 
first for waste. 

After the beer or ale is run from the grains, pour a hogs- 
head and a half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of 
water if eight were brewed ; mash, and let stand, and then 
boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that 
were boiled for the strong. 

When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, 
a tea-spoonikl, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood 



HOME-BREWERY. 245 

put into the jug will rectify it Let it be drawn, just be- 
fore ibis drunk, or it will taste flat. 

Excellent Table Beer. 

On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of 
the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty 'nine gal- 
lons; cover it warm half an hour then mash, and let it 
stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When 
dry* add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand 
half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of 
the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it 
infuse a full hour. Run that off, and mix all together. A 
pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in 
the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first run- 
ning. 

Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first 
boils. Straiu off and cool. If the whole be not cool 
enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort 
may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. 
Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and 
thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort 
ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for 
three days, when it may safely be fastened close. In three 
or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. 

Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into 
every barrel as soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten 
in the vent peg, the air causing casks to become musty. 

Excellent Spntce Beer. 

Let four ounces of hops boil half an hour in one gallon 
of water, strain the hop water, then add sixteen gallons of 
Warm water, two gallons of molapses, eight ounces of es- 
sence of spruce, dissolved in one quart of water, put the 
whole in a clean cask, then shake it well together, add half 
a pint of yeast, then let it stand and work one week : if 
very warm weather, less time will do; when it is drawn 
off to bottle, add one spoonful of molasses to every bottle. 
To refine Beer, Ale s Wine, or Cider* 

Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of ^ 

the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk eve- 
ry day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the'^isk, 
and mix the above with it : likewise a quarter of an ounce 
of near! ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, and on* 

X2L 



* 



£44 DfrMKWIC COOKKHtf. 

4iunoQ of burnt atom powdered. Stir it well, then retim* 
the liquor into the cask, and stir, it with a clean stick. 
Stop it up, and in a few day* it will be fine. 

Extract of Malt far Coughs* 

Over half a bushel of pale ground malt, poor as nmch 
hat (not boUing) water as will just cover it* Id fortyv 
eight hours, drain off the liquor entirely, but without 
squeezing the grains,* put the former into a large sweet- 
meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be raoot to boil as 
quick aa possible, without boiling overs when it begin* t* 
tbtckeu, stir constantly. It must be as thkk aa treacle, 

A dessertrspooniuL thrice a-day. 

To preserve Teas!. 

When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the 
following manner; whisk. it until it becomes thin, then 
take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, aad 
when quite dry»Jay a layer of yeast over the inside with 
a softbrush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the same 
Mfineis* and so do until you have a sufficient quantity, ob- 
serving that each coat dry thoroughly before another be 
adde<L It may he put on two or three inches thick, and 
will keep several months; when to be used, cut a piece 
out ; stir it in warm water* 

If to, be used for brewing, keep it by.dippiog Targe hand' 
fahhof birch tied together ; and when dry, repeat the dip- 
ping once. You. may thus do aa many as you please ; but 
take care that no dust comes to. them, or the vessel in which 
it has been prepared as before. When the wart is set to 
work,, throw, it into one of tliese bunches, and it will do as 
well as with, fresh yeast ; but if mixed with a smaliquaati- 
ty first, and then* added to the whole, k will work soonen 

A rich and pleasant Wine. 

Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much ho* 
ney as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen, minutes, but 
not in an iron, brass, or copper pot Skim- it well ; when 
cool, let it be tunned, but don't quite fill. In March fol- 
lowing bottle it, and it wUl be fit to drink in six weeks ; 
but wiU be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You 
wit£jbave a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. 
This will serve for any culinary purpose* which va&k+ e? 
sw«et wine, 1a directed for. 



wines, &c. 24£ 

« 

• Honey k a fine ingredient to assist, and render palat- 
able, new crabbed austere cider. 

Raspberry Wine. 

To every quart of well-picked raspberries, put a quart 
of water : bruise and let them stand two days ; strain off 
the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump 
sugar ; when dissolved put the liquor in a barrel, and when 
fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to 
each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. 

Raspberry vr Currant wine. 

To eveiy three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from 
mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; bruise the former. 
In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every 
quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality of Lis- 
bon. If for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is best to 
put thefruit, &c. in a large pan v and when in three or four 
days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put 
into the barrel 

Those who make from their own gardens, may not 
have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once : the wine 
will not be hurt if made in the pan, in -the above propor- 
tions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered 
in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each 
time. 

Aneihtr way. — Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of 
raspberries, to every two gallons of water; let them soak 
anight; then squeeze and break them well. Next day 
rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is ob- 
tained, washing the skins again with some of the water; 
then to every gallon put four pounds of very good Lis- 
bon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; too 
it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. Do not use 
any thing to work. H. In two v or three days put a bottle 
of brandy to every* four gallons; bung it close, but leave 
the peg out at top a few days; keep it three years, and it 
will be a very fine agreeable wine : four years would 
make it still bettor. 

Black Currant Wine, very fine. 

To every three quarts of juice, put the same of 4pater 
unboiled; ami to every three quarts of the liquor, add 
three poaods of very puce moist sugar. Put it into a 



2*40 domestic COOKERY. 

> • 

cask, reserving a little for filling up. Put the cask fa * 
-warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. 
Skim off the refuse, when the fermentation shall be over, 
and fill up with the reserved liquor. When itjias ceased 
working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of 
wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and 
drain the thick part through a jelly-bag, until it be clear, 
and bottle that. . Keep it ten or twelve months. 

Excellent Qingtr Wine. 

Put into a very nice boiler ten gallons of water, fifteen 
pounds of lump-sugar, with the whites of six or eight eggs 
well beaten and strained ; mix aH well while cold ; when 
the liquor boils, skim it well; put in half a pound of com- 
mon white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have 
ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the 
liquor on them : when copt y tun it with two spoonfuls of 
'yeast ; put a quart of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass* 
shavings, while warm, whisk it well three or four times, 
and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it 
lip; in three weeks bottle, and in three months it will be 
a delicious and refreshing liquor ; and though very cool, 
perfectly safe. 

Another. Boil nine quarts of water with six pounds of 
lump-sugar, the rinds of two- or three lemons very thinly 
pared, with two ounces of bruised white ginger, half an 
hour ; skim. Put three quarters of a pound of raisins in- 
to the cask ; when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the 
juice of two lemons strained, and a spoonful/and a half of 
yeast Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and 
half an ounce of isinglass-shavings : stop it up, and bottle it 
six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon peel in the 
barrel. 

Elder Wine. 

To every quart of berrries put two quarts of water, bail 
half an hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit through 
a hair sieve ; then to every quart of juice put three quar- 
ters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse but not the very 
coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some 
Jamaica peppers, gingers, and a few cloves. Pour it into 
a tub, and when of a proper warmth, into the barrel, with 
ffeast and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty to 



f fU * !!. .— .r- 



WINES, &c. 24? 

make it do than most other liquors. % When it ceases to hiss, 
put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bot- 
tle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in 
a warm place to make it work. 

White Elder Wine very much like Fontiniac. 

Boil eighteen pounds of white powder-sugar, with six 
gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten; then 
skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder-flowers 
from the tree that bears white berries ; dont keep them on 
the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoon- 
fuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well 
iuto the liquor; stir it every day; put six pounds of the 
best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop 
it close, and bottle in six months. When well kept, this 
wine will pass for Frontiniac. * 

Clary Wine. 

Boil fifteen gallons of water, with forty-five pounds of 
sugar, skim it, when cool put alittje to a quarter of a pint 
of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour 
pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on 
clary-flowers, picked in the dry ; the quantity for the 
above iff twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own 
garden may have net sufficient to put in at once, and may 
add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart 
When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it 
up for four months. Rack it off, empty the barrel of the 
dregs, and adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, 
and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. 
An excellent Wine cf Maple Sap. 

Take four or five gallons of sap and boil it down to one 
gallon, and in that proportion for a forger quantity, add 
yeast, put it into a clean cask and let it ferment ; when the 
fermentation is ended, stop it up and set it in a cool cellar. 
In three years it becomes an excellent bodied and plea* 
sant wine. 

Excellent Raisin Wine, 

To every gallon of spring-water, put eight pounds of 
fresh raisins in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day 
for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as 
dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask ; and when it 
has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy; stop 
it close for twelve mouths; then rack it off, but without 



248 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

the dregs ; fitter them through a bag of flannel of three or 
four folds ; add the clear to the quautity, and pour one or 
two quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. 
Stop it up, and at the end of three years, you may either 
bottle it, or drink it from the cask. 

Raisin wine would be extremely gopd r if made rich of the 
fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. 

Raisin Wine, and Cider. 

Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask* 
and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cider that 
is not rough ; stir it well two or three days ; stop it, and 
let it stand six months: then rack into a cask that it will 
fill -and put in a gallon of the best brandy. 

If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to 
keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year's wine 
just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six 
months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen 
months old. In cider countries this vuy is very economi- 
cal ; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition of 
another quarter of a huodred of raisins would be sufficient, 
and the wine would still be very cheap* 

When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, 
they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and 
must be sent to a distiller who will do it (but if for that 
purpose, they must be very little pressed) ; or they will 
make excellent vinegar, on which article seepage 131. 

The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may 
l>e thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making; being 
very acid. 

Raisin Wine without Cider. 

On four hundred weight of Malagas, pour one hogshead 
ef spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then 
squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and tun 
the liquor; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six 
months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and af- 
ter clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but 
don't wash it : add a gallon of 4b e best brandy, stop it 
close, and in six months bottle it. 

Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which re- 
fer to the preceding receipt. 

Excellent Mead. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and 



v -r' 



* _ wines, &c. 249 

boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. 
To every gallon add an ounce of hops; then boil it half an 
hour, and let it stand till next day ; put it into your cask, 
and to thirteen gallons of the liquor, add a quart of brandy* 
Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and 
then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it 
a year in cask. 

Mead, another way* 

Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, 
and boil till one gallon is wasted ; - skim it, take it off the 
'fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quar- 
tered; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them; 
put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, with a quart of 
br&ndy ; and then put to the liquor and the lemons, eight 
spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet briar : stir 
all well together, and let it work for three or four days. 
Strain it, and put into the eask : let it stand six. months, 
and then bottle it for keeping. 

Imperial. 

Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and pa- 
ring of two lemons, into a stone jar ; pour on them seven 
quarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. When cold, 
sweeten with loaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it 
tight - . 

This is a very pleasant liqmor, and very wholesome; 
but may be drank in such quantities, as to become injuri- 
ous. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole 
quantity. 

Ratafia. 

Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, 
bruise, and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with 
brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar-candy in 
a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has 
stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off; 
then filtre through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves 
of peach and nectarines, "when the trees are cut in the 
spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ra- 
tafia in puddings. 

Raspberry Brandy. 

Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar in- 
to a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will 



250 DOMESTIC COOKKBT. 

run; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of f agar, 
give one boil, and skim it; when cold, pnt equal quantities 
of juice and brandy, shake well, and bottle. Some people 
prefer it stronger of the brandy. 

An excellent Methdu of making Punch. 
Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe 
and some large lumps of doubte-refiued sugar, ftub the 
sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed nil the yellow 
part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, 
.and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be sup- 
posed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, 
as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and 
therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then 
squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar; and with a bruis- 
er press the sugar and the juice particularly welt togeth- 
er, for a great deal of the richness and .fine flavour of the 
punch defends on this rubbing and mixing process being 
thoroughly performed. Then mix this up very well with 
boiling water (soft water is best) till the whole is rather 
cool. When this mixture (which is now called 'the sher* 
bet) is to your taste, take -brandy and rum in equal quan- 
tities, and put them to it, mixing the whole well together 
again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your 
taste : two good lemons are generally enough to make 
four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with 
half a pound ot sugar * % but this depends much on taste, " 
and on the strength of the spirit. - * 

As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- 
bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some 
strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is 
improper: as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed 
together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. 

When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will 
soften the punch ; and even when both rum and brandy 
are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very 
pleasant flavour. 

This receipt has never been in print before, but is 
greatly admired. It is impossible to take too much pains 
in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them 
extremely well, that all the different articles may be most 
thoroughly incorporated together. 




, WINES, &c. 251 

Verder, or Milk Punch. 

Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you can, 
grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the 
peefs in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty- 
four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, 
add to it four quarts of water, and one* of new milk boil- 
ing hot ; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a 
jelly bag till perfectly dear. Bottle, and cork close im- 
mediately. 

Excellent Punch to keep. 

In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of 
thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin^that not 
the least of tire white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have 
ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled ; put 
to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar ; and when well 
mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the 
juice of the oranges and of twenty-four lemons; mix well : 
then strain through a very fine hair sieve, into a very 
clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of 
new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand six 
weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observ- 
ing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, 
and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This 
liquor will keep many years, and improves by age.. 

Another way. — Pare Bix lemons and three sour oranges 
very thin, squeeze the juke into a large tea-pot, put to it 
two quarts of brandy, one of white wine, and one of milk, 
and one pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed* • 
and then covered for twenty-four hours, strain through a . 

jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. g 

White currant Shrub. 

Strip the fruit and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; strain 
the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of mm, 
and two pounds of lump-sugar ; strain through a jelly 
bag. 



252 



PART XL 



DAIRY AND POULTRY. 

DAIRY. 

The inhabitants of each country are generally acquaint- 
ed with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese of 
that country * % but the following hints may not be unac- 
ceptable. 

On the management of Cows, &c. 

Cows should be carefully treated; if their teats are 
sore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a-day, and 
either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirits 
and water. If the former, great cleanliness is necessary* 
The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. 

When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be 
strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in win* 
ter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, 
as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded.' 

The greatest possible attention must be paid to great, 
cleanliness in a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers; 
and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neat- 
ness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. 
There should be abutters to keep out the sun and the hot 
air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. 

The cows should be milked at a regular anil early hour, 
and the udders emptied, or the quantity wiH decrease. 
The quantity of milk depends on many causes * as the 
goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pasture, the: 
length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean wa* 
ter in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will 
tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the 
dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three 
weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more 
abundant after. In gentlemen's dairies more attention is 
paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to their pro- 
duce, which farmers look most to. 






™^mm*—mm+fft 



TPAIRY. 253 

» t 

j 

For making cheese the cows should calve from March 
to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use 
about the same time ; but in gentlemen's families one or two 
should calve in August or September for a supply in win* 
ter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairy is 
about three gallons a-day each cow, in summer, and in 
winter about one gallon a-day. Cows will be profitable 
milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper 
breed. 

When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the 
cow in a week at farthest, or it will cause great trouble in 
rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in 
a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it 
without food till the next morning ; and then, being hun- 
gry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed mtlk and 
fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice 
a-day in such quantity as is required. If milk runs short, 
smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the 
calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. 

When the family is absent, or there is not a great* call 
for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to 
provide for the winter-store: she should have a book to 
keep an account, or get someone to write down for her the 
produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots* 
The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each. 
In another part of the book should be stated the poultry 
reared in one leaf, and the weekly sale or consumption in 
another part 

Observations respecting Cheese. 

This well-known article differs according to the pasture 
hi which the cows feed. Various modes of preparing 
may effect a great deal ; and it will be bad or good of its , 
kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrary ; but 
much will still depend on the former circumstance. The 
same land rarely makes very fine butter, and remarkably 
fine cheese ; yet due care may give one pretty good, 
where the other excels in quality. 

When one is not as fine as the other, attention and 
change of method may amend the inferior. There is usual* 
ly, however, too much prejudice in the minds of people, 
to make them give up an old custom for one newly recoup 
mended* 



♦** 



2W DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skimmed, 
or mixed milk, will diflGer greatly, not in richness only, 
but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a family, 
should consider in which way it can be managed to the 
best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value 
may be made from a tolerable pasture, by talcing the 
whole of two meals of milk, and proportioning the thick- 
ness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide 
and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The ad- 
dition of a pound of fresh made butter, of a good quality, 
will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very 
different quality from that usually produced by it. 

A few cheeses thus made, when the "weather is not 
extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be 
very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese 
for common family use will be very well produced by two 
meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in good land, by 
the skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, add 
petted down Tor winter-use, but not to interfere with the 
cheese as above, which will not take much time. 
To prepare Rennet to turn the Milk. 

Take out the stomach of a calf as aoon as killed; and 
scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared- of the 
curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then 
sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it 
on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak 
a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. 

Another way.-— Clean the maw as above , next day 

take two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a 

handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of 

cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades 6f mace, a sprig of 

marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt :Let them boil 

gently to three pints of water; strain it oflf; and when ott-_ 

ly milk- warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). 

Slice a lemon into it ; let it stand two days ; strain it 

again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least 

twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may 

add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be 

pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt 

the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on 

sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever* 

. Dont keep it in a fyot place when dry* 



J 



To make Cheese. 
. Put toe milk into a large tub, warming a part till it fe 
of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the 
cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn 
it, and cover it over. Let it stand til 1 completely turned ; 
then strike the curd down several times with the skim- 
ming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There 
are two modes of breaking the curd; and there will be a 
difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either 
is observed; one is, to gather it with the hands very 
gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass 
through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it 
collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by nearly 
breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of 
its oily particles, an/1 is therefore less proper. 

Put the vat or ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd 
by the skunmer : press the curd close with your hand, and 
add more as it sinks ; and it must be finally left two inch- 
es above the edge. , Before the yat is filled, the cheese- 
cloth must be laid at the bottom j and when full, drawn 
smooth over on all sides. 

These are two modes of salting cheese ; one by mixing 
it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and 
the other by putting it in the vat, and crumbling the curd 
all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands 
has dried iU The first method appears best, on some ac- 
counts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the 
country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, 
and place it in the press : in two hours turn it out, and put 
a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again for eight or nine. hours ; 
then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it 
stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours ; observing to 
put the cheeses last 'made undermost Before putting 
them the last time into the vat,, pare the edges if they do 
not look sraootfi. The vat should have holes at the sides 
and at bottom to let all the whey pass through. Put on 
clean boards, and change and scald them. 

To preserve Cheese sound. 

Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe It 
•nee a month, and keep it on a rack, [f you want to ri- 
pen it, a damp cellar wil I brjng it forward. When a whole 



259 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

cheese is cut, the laiger quantity should be spread witfi 
buttei inside, and the outside wiped, to preserve iU To 
keep those in daily use, moist, let a clean cloth be wrung 
out from cold water, and wrap round them when earned 
from table. Dry cheese may be used to. advantage to. 
. grate for serving with macaroni or eating without. . These 
observations are made with a view to make the above ar- 
ticles less expensive, as in most families' where much is 
used there is waste. 

To make Sage Cheese. 

Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with 
some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with 
the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like 
for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it 
gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two 
Inches- above one vat. Press it eight or ten boon. Salt 
it> and tun ^very day. 

Cream Cheese. 

Put five quarts of stripping*, that is, the last of the milk* 
into a pan, with two spoonfuls of rennet . When the curd 
is come, strike it down two or three times with the skim- 
ming-dish just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then 
spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and 
let the whey drain; break the curd a tittle with your 
hand, sod put it into a vat with a two pound weight upos 
it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a Wei 
round. Turn every day till dry, from one board to an* 
other; cover them with clean dock-leaves, and put between 
two pewter plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it 
will be ready in three weeks. 

Jnother.-~*Hxve ready a kettle of boiling water, put five 
quarts of new milk into a pan, Knd Jive pints of cold watesv 
and Jive of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much 
rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, likewise, a bit of 
sugar. When come, strike the skimmer three or four tiroes 
down* and leave it on the curd. In an hour or two lade 
it into the vat without touching it ; put a two pound weight 
on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. 

Another sort. — Put as much salt to three pints of raw 
cream as shall season it : stir it well, and pour it into a, 
sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three or. 



- ■"*■ _>. . 



" *"•**?* — ^ •****.' — -■■■..■. (j i iM i 



DAISY. 2*7' 

four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, co~ 
Ter it with nettles on a pewter plate. 

Rush Cream Cheese. 

To a quart of freBh cre.am put a pint of new milk warm 
enough; to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of su- 
gar, and a little rennet. 

Set near the fire till the curd comes; fill a vat made in 
the form of a brick, of wheat straw or rushes sewed toge- 
ther* Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, 
to rest the vat on, and another to cover it; the vat being 
open at top and bottom. Next day take it out a id change 
it as above to ripen. A half-pound weight will be suffi- 
cient to put on it. 

Another way.' — Take a pint of very thick sour cream 
from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkiu 
on two -plates, and pour half into each, let them stand 
twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet napkin in one 
plate, and cover with the same ; this do every twelve hours 
until you find the cheese begins to look dry, then ripen 7 it 
with nut-leaves ; it will be ready in ten days. 

*resh nettles or^ two pewter plates will ripen, cream- 
cheese very well, 

.Observations respecting butter. 

There is no one article of family consumption more in 
use, of greater variety in goodness, or that is of more con- 
sequence to have a superior quality, than, this, and the 
economising of which is more accessary. The sweetness 
of butter is not affected by the eream being turned, of 
which it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cab- 
bages, or wild onions, the taste is very disagreeable; and 
the following ways have been tried with advantage to ob- 
viate it: 

When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every 
six gallons one gallon of boiling water. ^Or dissolve one 
ounce of nitre in a pint of spring water, Ethd put a quarter 
of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or when you 
churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, 
and put it into a well-scalded pot,into which you are to ga- 
ther the next cream ; stir that well* and do so with every 
fre#h addition. 



zrjn 



ZBi D0MMTIC COOKIRT. 

To make Butter. 

During summer* skim the milk when the sun has oat 
heated the dairy; at that season it should stand for butter 
twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in 
winter. Deposit .the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if 
your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, 
change it into scalded fresh pots ; hut never omit churning 
twice a-week. If possible, put tjie churn in a thorough 
air ; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two 
feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When 
the butter is come, pour off the buttermilk, and put the but- 
ter into a fresh-scalding pan, or .tubs which have afterwards 
been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to ac- 
quire some hardness before you worklt ; then change the 
water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the 
least taste of the butter-milk remain, and that the water, 
which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour* 
Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into formsf 
throw them into cold water in an earthen pan and cover. 
You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest 
weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold 
weather: but in neither should be left with a particle of 
buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is sometimes done. 

To preserve Butter. 

Take two parts of the best common salt, one part good 
loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well toge- 
ther. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed 
from the milk, puttme ounce of this composition; work it 
well, and pot down when become, firm and cold. 

The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, 
and should not be used under a month. This article 
should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best 
glazed earth, that will bold from ten to fourteen pounds 
each. m 

T9 preserve butter for Winter, the best wag* 

When the butter has been prepared as above directed, 
take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good 
loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended 
well together. Of this composition; put one ounce to six- 
teen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass* 
Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool j for 



{fiction, though it be not touched by, the hands, will soften 
it. Thepans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On 
the top put some salt ; and when that is turned to brine, if 
not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong 
salt and water. It requires only then to be covered from 
the dust. 

To manage Cream for Whey Butler* 

Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till you 
have enough : then boil it, and pour it into a pan or two of 
cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more 
comes; then churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made 
daily,, whey butter for common and present use may be 
made to advantage. 

To scald Cream. 

In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the 
summer twelve at least ; then put the milk-pan on a hot 
hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass kettle 
of water large enough to receive the pan. It must remain 
on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there 
will be a skim instead of cream upon the milk. You will 
know when done enough, by the undulations on the sur- 
face looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the 
size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream de- 
pends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire ; the 
slower the better. . Remove the pan into the dairy when 
done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand 
thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. 

The butter is usually made in England of cream thi$ 
prepared, and if properly it is very firm. 

Buttermilk, 
If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most wholesome 
food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still 
more light ; and it is reckoned more beneficial in con- 
sumptive cases. 

Buttermilk if not very sour, is also as good as cream, to 
eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed 
with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for 
cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economical to 
churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to, 
(bed pigs; 

To keep MUk and Cream. 

In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk fro» 



260 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be tept 
perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, 
without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish, et 
pan that it is done in. This method is pursued ia Eng- 
land; and for butter, and eating, would equally answer in 
small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skim- 
med may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded without su»» 
gar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as 
shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days, keeping 
it in a cool place. 

Syrup of Cream 
May be preserve^ as above m the. proportion of a pound 
and quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream? 
keep it in a cool place for two or three hours; then put it 
in one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep 
good thus for several weeks, and will be found very use- 
ful in voyages. 

Curds and Whey, as in Italy* 
' Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards 
of turkeys and fowls; clean them from the pebbles they 
contain : rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. 
This makes a more tender and delicate curd than comraoa 
rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, 
and put on it some boiling water; in eight or nine houra 
use the liquor as you do other rennet. 

To choose Butter at Market- 
Tut a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when 
drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it 
is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks 
will vary greatly ; and you will not easily come at the 
goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it, between 
the staves. Fresh butter ought to »mell like a nosegay, 
and be of an equal colour all through; if sour in smell, it 
has not been sufficiently washed ; if veiny and open, it ia 
probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. 

P0ULTRY*Y-1RD. 

Management of Fowls. 

In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a 

good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The 

Canton breed is thought highly of; and it is certainly de^ 

sirable to have a fine large kind, but people differ in their 



*©ttLTRY-YARi* 261 

opioioB of which is best. The black are very juicy ; but 
do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of 
their colour. They should be fed as nearly' as possible at 
the same hour and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned in 
a little water, and then cut, and either wet with skimmed 
milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkeys and 
fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not be 
sour. 

The best age for setting a hen, is from two to five years ; 
and you should remark which hens make the best brood- 
ers, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless 
of their young. In justice to the animal creation however, 
it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad 
parents for the time their nursing is necessary. 

Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be 
provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sit- 
ting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from vermin, 
the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. 

Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of 
fealhers on their heads; those that crow are not looked 
upon as profitable. Some fine young fowls should be rear- 
ed evfery year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and 
by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless 
nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. 

Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which 
should be done from the end of February to the beginning 
of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and 
sometimes with oats. 

Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, 
but those that come out very late require much care till 
they have gained some strength. 

If the eggs of any other sort are put under a hen with 
some of her own, observe to add her own as many days 
after the others as there is a difference in the length of 
their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose 
large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as 
she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are 
sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be pro- 
ductive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. 

A. hen-house should be large and high ; and should be 
frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- 



262 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

crease gently. But hens must not be disturbed 
sitting ; for if frightened, they sometimes {make their 
nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentifully 
about their houses ; boil some of the former, and sprinkle 
it about the floor which should be of smooth earth, not 
paved. The windows of the house should be open to the 
rising sun, and a hole must be left at the door, to kt 
the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let in- and- «■£ 
by opening the door. There should be a small sliding 
board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; 
which would prevent the small beasts of prey from com- 
mitting ravages, and a good strong door *od lock may 
possibly, in some measure, preveut the depredations of 
human enemies. 

When some of the chickens are hatched long before 
the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket 
of wool till the others come forth. The day after they 
are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and 
small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as 
they have gained a little strength, feed them with cwrd, 
cheese-parings cut small, boiled corn, or any soft food, 
but nothing sour; and give the*m clean water twice a-d»y. 
.Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to 
follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks; 
and be sure to feed her well. 

The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which soft- 
ens it; and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant 
friction macerates it : and this is facilitated by small stones, 
which are generally found there, and which help to digest 
the food. 

The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, 
or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is 
the symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, and -rub 
the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be re- 
moved. 

It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm 
or stable, so much a hundred for the eggs he bringsio. It 
Hill be his interest then to save then* from being purloined, 
which nobody but one in his situation can prevent; and 
six or eight cents a hundred will be buying eggs cheap. 
7\> Fatten Fowls or Chickens in four or fie days* 
Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as nracb 



... ' 

ifewill serve one day. Let it boil till the riec is quite 
swelled ^ufc: you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, 
but it will do well without. Feed them three times a-day, 
id common pans, giving them only as much as will quite 
fill them «t once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set 
in water, that no sourness may be conveyed to the fowls, 
as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean 
water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; but the less wet 
the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this 
method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no 
other food gives ; and when it is considered how far a 

v pound of rice will go, and how much time is eaved by this 
mode, it will be found to be cheap. The pen should be 
daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before 
poultry be killed. 

To choose eggs at Marfan and preserve them* 
Put the large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels 
warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small divi- 
sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and 
is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through 
them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty 
clear. Ifthey shake they are not fresh. 

"Eggs may be bought cheapest when the hens first begin 
to lay in the spring, before they sit; in fall and winter 
they become dear. They may be preserved fresh by dip- 
ping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, 
or by oiling the shell j either of which ways is to prevent 

. the air passing through it : or kept on shelves with small 
holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other 
day; or close packed in a keg, and covered with strong 
lime-water. 

Feathers. 
In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the 
leathers, which may occasionally come in small quantities, 
are neglected j but orders should be given to put them in- 
to a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them 
into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry 
kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added to those 
in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell,' but 
they should go through the same process. lu a few months 
they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without 

Z 



r 



2^4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

the usual mode of drying them in a cool oven, which way 
be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. 

Ducks 
Generally begin to lay in the month of February or Aittcb, 
Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, tOl 
they seem inclined to sit; then leave them and see thtft 
there are enough. They require no attention while Bitting, 
except to give them food at the time they come out to sew 
it : and there should be water placed at a moderate dis- 
tance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by 
their long absence in seeking it T welve or thirteen egga 
are enough ; in an early season it is best to set them under 
a' hen : and then they can be kept from water till they 
have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold we** 
ther they cannot do so well. They should be put under 
cover, especially in a wet season ; for though water is the 
natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed 
by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to 
defend them. 

Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one 
place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. 
Places near the water to lay in are advantageous; and 
these might be small wooden houses, with a partition in the 
middle, and a door at each end. They eat any thing : and 
when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coane, 
and in three weeks they will be fat 

Geese 
Require little expense ; as they chiefly support themselves 
on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The 
largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. 
The pied and dark-coloured are not so good* Thirty days 
are generally the time the goose sits, but iu warm weather 
she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of 
food, such as scalded bran and light oats; and as soon as 
the goslins are hatched, keep them housed for eight or 
ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. 
For green-geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks 
old, and feed them as above. Stubble-geese require no 
fattening if they have the run of good fields. 

Turkeys 
Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, put 
three peeper-corns down their throat Great care is ne- 



$4*V*>y to their well, being* because the hen is so careless 
that she- will walk about with one chick, and leave the re- 
mainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Turkeys are 
violent eatery and must therefore be left to take charge of 
themselves in general, except one good feed a-day. The 
lien sits twenty-Jive or thirty days; and the young ones 
must be kept warm, as the least cold or damp kills them. 
They must be fed often ; and at a distance from the hen, 
who will eat every thing from them. They should have 
curds, green-cheese parings cut small, boiled corn, and 
bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it ; and their 
drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young 
fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept 
in a safe place where none can come; weasels, ferrets, 
&c. creep in at very small crevices* 

Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed 
to the sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young 
should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or 
evening. T weive eggs are enough to put under a turkey : 
and when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has 
laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, 
and sit in April, Feed them near the hen-bouse; and 
•give them a little, meat in the evening, to accustom them 
to roosting there. Fatten them with boiled corn, sod- 
den oats or barley for the first fortnight, and the last fort- 
night "give them as above, and rice swelled with warm 
milk over the fire twice a-day. The flesh will be beauti- 
fully white and 4tne-flavoured. The common way is to 
cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unneces- 
sary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which 
makes them poor. 

Pea Fowl 

Feed them as you do turkeys. They are so shy that 
they are seldom found for some days after hatching : and 
it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people 
do, in the idea of bringing them home; for it only causes 
the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, 
and by hurrying she treads upon them. The cock kills 
all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the 
centre of the head with his bill ; and he does the same by 
Mb own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. 



-206 DOMESTIC COOJCERY. 

• *"■** 

Mature therefore impels the hen to keep them out .©£ hk 
way till the feathers rise. - . t 

Guinea Hens . t< 

_ Lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can discover the 
nest, it is best to put them under common hens, which are 
better nurses. They require great warmth, quiet, and 
careful feeding with rice or corn swelled with milk, or 
bread soaked in it Put two pepper-corns down their 
throat when first hatched. 

Pigeons . 

•Bring two youogones at a time; and breed every month, 
if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They should be 
kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove-cote be strew- 
ed with sand once a-month at least. Tares and white pea* 

- are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh 
water in their house or near it Otker jbirds are apt to 
come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise 
are their great enemies, and destroy them. If the breed 
should be too small, put a few tame pigeon* of the .commaa , 
kind* and of their own colour, among them. Observe not 
to have too iarg# a proportion of cock-birds ; for they ate 
quarrelsome, and will soon thjn the dove-cote. 
Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps, them in health. 

. Lay a large heap of clay near the house, and let Ihe ,saH- . 
brine that may be done with in the family be poured upon 
It* 

^Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is a universal remedy 
fcr the disease of pigeons. The backs and breasts are 
sometimes scabby.: in which case, take a quarter of a pound 
of bay-salt, audits much common salt; a pound- of fennel- 
seeds, a pound of dill-seed, as. much cummin-seed, and aa 
ounce of assafoetida; mix all with a little wheat flour, and 
some fine worked clay ; when all are well beaten together, 

.put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. 
When cold, put them on the table in the dovecot ; the pi* 
geons will eat it, and thus be cured. 

Rabbits, 

The wild ones have the finest flavotuv unless great earn \ 

is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. 2The tame one 

brings forth every month, and mu*t be allowed to go with 

the back as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, 



SICK COOKBRT, 207 

4Kb, beam, sow-thistle, parsley, carrot-tons, cabbage* 
loaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. 
If not very well attended, their stench will destroy them- 
selves, and be very unwholesome to all who live near 
them ; but attention will prevent Una inconvenience* 



PART XII. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND 
FOR THE POOR. 

SICK COOKERY. 

A * 

General Remarks* 

THE following pages will contain cookery for the sick ; 
fcbeing of more consequence to support those whose bad 
appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourish* 
meat, than to stimulate that of persons in health. 
- It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be 
made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; 
that a change be provided ; that some one at least be al- 
ways ready ; that not too much of those be made at once, 
which are not likely- to keep, aB invalids require variety ; 
and that they should succeed each other in different forma 
and flavours. 

A clear Broth that will keep long. 

Put the mouse-round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, 
tad a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover 
close with a dish or coarse crust : bake till the beef is done 
enough for eating, with ouiy as much water as will cover. 
When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be 
used, give what flavour may be approved. 

A quick-made Broth. 

Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off 
the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce-pan 
that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the 
meat being-first beaten, and cut in thin bits; put a bit of 
thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let 
it boil very quick, skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if 

& 2 



20* MIIHW1C OO0KRRY. 

Hkely U be too weak; else cover it Half an hour It 
sufficient for the fchole pit>cete. • ■ * ; 

^f 9«ry mpp&rting Broth against any kind of meribmts. 

Boil, two pounds of iom of mutton, "with a very large* 
handful of sweet herbs in two quarts of witter, to one. 
Take off part of the fat Any roots may be added. Take 
half a pint three or fowr tines a-day . 

A very nourishing Vtal Broth. 

Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very 
little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mut- 
ton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of 
mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, 
and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, 
and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, 
and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and take off the 
fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. 
Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Feat. 

Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of Teal* 
tme pound of scrap of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper- 
corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five quarts of water; 
simmer to three quarts, and clear front the fat when cold. 
Add one onion if approved. 

Soup and broth made of different meats, are more sup* 
porting, as well as better flavoured. 

To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as pos- 
sible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of cteau 
blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and 
it will take up every particle. 

Calves* feet Broth. 

Boil two feet in three quarts of water, to half ? strain and 
set it by; wh^n to be used, take off the fat, put a large 
tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass of 
Sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it 
be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat \s/y de- 
grees to the yolk of an egg, and addinr a bit of butter, the 
sS$e of a nutmeg, stir it altogether, but dont let it boil. 
Orate a bit of firefch lemon-peel into it. 

Another* — Boil two calves' feet, two ounces of veal, and 
'two of beef, the bottom of a small loaf, two or three bfattoa 
of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, fet #re« 
quarts of water, to three pints; strato, ittid tak* off the fat. 



SICK COOltERT. $50 

Chicken BH*h. 

Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken-panada 
Was made of, as in page 270, after taking off the skin wad 
runftpv into the water it was- boiled in, with one blade of 
taftcq one slifce of onion, and ten white peppeinwrns. Sim- 
mer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water 
enough, add a little. Beat -a quarter of an ounce of sweet 
almonds-with a tea-spoonful rf water, fine, boil it in the 
broth, strain, and when cold, Temove the fat. 

Ed Broth, 

Clean half * pound of small eels, and set them on with 
• three pints of water, some parsley, on*- slice of onion, a few 
pepper-corns; let them simmer tiH the eels are broken r 
and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off. 

The above should make three half-pints of broth. 

Beef tea* 

Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer "with 
a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, 
and been skimmed. Season, if approved : but it has gen- 
•rally only salt. 

Restorative Vork Jdly. 

Take a leg of Well-fed pork, just as cut lip, beat it, and 
break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire, with three gal- 
Ions of- water, and simmer to, one. Let half an ounce of 
mace, and the same of nutmegs, strew in it. v Strain through 
a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat Give a cho- 
cftlate*cup the first and the last thing, and at noon, putting 
salt to taste* 

Shank Jelly. 

Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush 
and scour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan 
with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica and 
thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
a crust of bread made very brown by toasting. Pour 
three quarts of water to them, and set them on- a hot hearth 
close-covered : let them simmer as gently as possible for 
five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. ^ 

This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if ap- 
proved^ for flavour. It is a Temarkabiy good thing for 
people who are weak. 

J Arronwvet Jetty* 

If genuine, is very nourishing, especially for weak bow? 



$?# BOMBSTIC COOXSR*. 

els. Put into a saucepan half a pint of water a glass of 
sherry, or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg and fine 
sugar ; boil once up, then mix it by degrees into a deb&ert- 
spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth with 
two spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the Whole into the 
saucepan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 

Tapioca JtUy. . 

Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it 
two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six 
hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite 
clear ; then put lemon juice, wine r and sugar. The peel 
should have been boiled in it It thickens very much. 

An excellent Jellu. 

Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hanaborn shavings, each 
an ounce; simmer with three pints of water to one, and 
strain it. When cold it will be a jelly ; of which give, 
dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other 
nourishment 

Panada made in five minutes. 

Set a little water on Die tire with a ^lass of white wine, 
some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon-peel ; mean- 
while grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mix- 
ture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in 
and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thick- 
ness just to drink, take it ofL 

Another. — Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine 
put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter ; sugar ni 
above. This is a most pleasant mess. 

Another. — Put to the water sv bit of lemon-peel, mix the 
orumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some le- 
mon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all tlie ingredients; 
for if any be added after, the panada will break, and not 
jelly. 

Chicken Panada* 
Boil it till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, 
take off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and 
put into a marble mortar : pound it to a paste with- a lit- 
tle of the water it was boiled in, season with a little -salt, a 
rte of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boll gent* 
for a few minutes to the consistency you like; it should 
be, such as you can drink, though tolerably thick* 



SICK COOKERY. $71 



* * 



v This conveys great nourishment in small compass. . 
- •• Sippets^ when the stomach will not receive meat. 
,- O a, ajQ. extreme hot plate put two or three sippets cf 
brea^, and pour over, them some gravy from beet!, mut- 
ton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish* Sprinkle- a 
little salt over,, . r 

. • /:• ■ •>• • • v • %#*• • * 

.. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and nixed 

with a basin of milk, makes, a breakfast more supporting 

thitp tea. solely. . 

An egg. divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- 
rately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two 
Tery wholesome drlhghts, and prove lighter than when 
taken together. 

Eggs very little boiled, or poached taken in small quant ' 
tity, convey much nourishment; the yolk only, when 
dressed, should be eaten by invalids. _ 

J. great restorative. 
. Bake, two calves 9 feet in two pints of water, and the same 
quantity of new milk, in a jar Close covered, three hours 
tfod a half. When cold remove the fat. 

. Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. What- 
ever flavour is*approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel* 
cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. 

, Another. — ^Simiaer six sheep-s trotters, two blades of 
mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn sha* 
yings, and a little isinglass, in .two quarts of water to one; 
when cold, take off the fat,, and give near half a pint twice 
a-day, warming it with a little new mik. 

Another. — Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty 
Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a 
quart of water to a pint.aod strain it. 
". This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house ; of 
which a large spoonful may be taken in, wine and water, 
milk, tea, soup, or any way. 

Another y a most pleasant Draught. — Boil a quarter of 
an ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new milk, to 
half: add a bit of sugar, and for change a bitter almond*. 

Give this at bed-time, not too warm. 

Dutch flummery, blamange, and jellies, as directed is 
pages' \%9 y 190,*and 107, or leas rich according to judg^ 
meat; 



-V 



H'« fc. w«^^ai-- 



272 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Caudle. 

Make a fine smooth gruel ; strain k when boiled well, 
stir it at times till cold. When to be used, adcUugar, wine, 
and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of 
brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. 

Another. — Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit 
of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of 
brandy, the same of white wine, a bit of sugar, a bit of le- 
mon-peel and nutmeg* , . 

Another.— Into a pint oi fine gruel, not thick, put, while 
it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and 
mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine 
and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is very agreeable and 
nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table-beer, 
sugar, &c. with or without a tea-spoonful of brandy. 

Cold Caudle. 

Boil a quart of spring-water; when cold, add the yolk 
of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonfuls of sweet 
wine, sugar, to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. 

A Flour Caudle. 

Into five large spoonfuls of the purest water, rub smooth 
one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set oyer the fire five 
spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it: 
thejnoment it boils, pour into it the flour and water : and 
stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing 
and gently astringent food. This is an excellent food for 
babies who have weak bowels. 

Rice Caudle. 

When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice 
mixed with a little cold water; when of a proper consis- 
tence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of 
brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. 

Another.— Soak some rice iu water an hour, strain 
it, and. put two spoonfuls. of the rice- into "a pint and 
a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a 
sieve, then put the pulp and milk into a saucepan, 
with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten 
minutes; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk ; and 
serve with thin toast 

To mull Wine. . 

Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gain- 
ed, then add an equal quantity of port, Madeira, or sherry, 



1» - i> %i* 



i 



SICK COORBBT* 273 

some sugar and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with 
toast. 

Another rvay. — Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated 
nutmeg a few minutes, in a large tea-cupful of water ; then 
pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste : 
beat it up and it will be ready* 

Or it may be made of good home-made wine. 

To make Coffee. 

Put two ounces of fresh-ground coffee, of the best qua- 
lity, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of boiling 
water on it; let it boil six minutes; pour out a cupful two 
or three times, and return it again ; then put two or three 
Isinglass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boil- 
ing water on it; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot 
by the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have 
coffee of a beautiful clearness. 

Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and 
either pounded sugar-candy, or fine sugar* 

If for foreigners, or those ^ho like it extremely strong, 
make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh 
roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry; 
or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a pre- 
serviog-pan of a small size, and when hot, throw the coffee 
in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be 
cold before ground. 

Coffee Milk. 

Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee, in nearly a pint 
of milk, a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or 
two of isinglass, and clear it ; let it boil a few minutes, and 
set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. 

This is a very fine breakfast; it should be sweetened 
with sugar of a good quality. 

Chocolate. 
Those who use much of this article, will find the follow- 
ing mode of preparing it both useful and economical : 

Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits; put a pint 
of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in the above ; 
mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire 
till it boil; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool 
place eight or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a 
spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mill it 
well 



274 DOMESTIC COOKERY* 

Tills is a very good breakfast or supper. 

Cocoa 
Is a light wholesome breakfast. 

Milk-Pcrridge. 

Make a fine gruel of cracked corn, long boiled ; strain 
off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be 
approved. Serve with toast. 

French MUk-J^orridge. 

Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand to be 
clear, and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir it 
well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, 
and boil the water, adding milk while doing. The pro- 
portion of water mustbe smarl. 

This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of 
weak persons, abroad. 

" GrowuLRicc Milk. 

Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, 
with three half-pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemoa- 
peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. 

Sago. 

To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an 
hour; pour that off, and wash it well ; then add more, and 
simmer gently till clear, with lemon-peel and spice, if ap- 
proved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. 
^ Sago Milk. 

Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly, and wholly with 
new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will 
be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be dimin- 
ished to about a pint It requires no sugar or flavouring. 

Asses 9 Milk 
Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It 
should be, milked into a glass that is kept warm by being in 
a basin of hot water. 

The fixed air that it contains gives some people a pain 
in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be ta- 
ken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to 
be swallowed. 

Artificial Asses* Milk. 

Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, aa 
ounce of white sugar-candy* half an ounce of eringo-root, 
and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted. 



r I III vjii^ii I p. I ■■ I I IfBi -» -i-- 1MXJ. .«4-.r.5" ■ . * J»"» ■» ,i •"» — ^-"- •<- r ""*>« 



SICK COOKERY. 27$ 

This is astringent ; therefore proportion the do^es to the 
effect, and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of boiliag water, two of 
milk, and an egg w r ell beaten; sweeten with pounded white 
sugar-candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a-day. 

Another. — Boil two ounces of hartshorn-shavings, two 
ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, 
and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in two 
quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of 
new milk, when tal^en, twice a-day. 

Water Gruel. 

Put a large spoonful of oatmeal or fine indian meal by 
degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. 

Another way. — Rub smooth a large spoonful of oat, or 
fine indian meal, with two of water, and pour it into a pint 
of boiling on the fire ; stir it well, and boil it quick ; but 
take care it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour 
strain it off; and add salt and a bit ef butter when eaten. 
Stir until the butter be incorporated. 

Barley Gruel* 

Wash four ounces of pearl-barley ; boil it in two quarts 
of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; 
* train, and return it into the sauce-pan with sugar, and 
three quarters of a pint of port-wine. Heat up, and use 
as wanted. 

A very agreeable Drink. 

Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table-spoonful 
of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar. 

Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded cur- 
rants or crauberries, make excellent drinks ; with a littfe 
sugar or not, as may be agreeable. 

A refreshing Drink in a fever. 

Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little sor- 
rel, into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them ; 
peel thin a small lemon, aud clear from the white; slice it, 
and put a bit of the peel in ; then pour in three pints of 
boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. 

Another Drink. — Wash extremely well an ounce of 
pearl-barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of 
water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of 



# 



A 



216 DOKISTIC COOKKHY. 

lemon-peel ; boil til! you have a smooth liquor, then put in 
a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. 

Another. — Boil three pints of water with an ounce and 
a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants and two oun- 
ces of stoned raisins, till near a third be consumed. Strain 
It on a bit of lemon-peel, which remove in an hour, as it 
gives a bitter taste if left long. 

A most pleasant Drink. 

Put a tea -cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and 
mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of water 
with one large spoonful of corn or oatmeal and a bit of 
lemon-peel ; then add the cranberries, and as much fine 
sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit; and a 
quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper; boil 
all for half an hour hour, and strain off. 
Soft and fine Draught for those who are weak and have a 

Cough. 

Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of. a 
pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire or 
noyeau, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg sera* 
ped. Dont warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the 
first and last thing. 

Toast and Water. 

Toast slowly, a thin piece of bread till extremely brown 
and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jog 
of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This 
is of particular use in weak bowels. It should be of a fine 
brown colour before drinking it 

Barley water. 

Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gent- 
ly in three pints of water with a bit of lemon peel. 

This is a very pleasant drink. 

Another ?vay. — Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few 
minutes to cleause, then put on it a quart of water, sim- 
mer an hour : when half done, put into it a bit of fresh le- 
mon-peel^and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, 
you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Lemon- 
juice may be added, if chosen. 

Lemon-water^ a delightful Drink. 

Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a 
little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar ; pour in a pkit of 
boiling water, and stop it close two hours. 



■-- » 



H 



SICK C00KJ£R;Y. $77 

Apple Water. 

Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boil- 
ing water od them ; or on roasted apples ; straia in two or 
thsee hours, and sweeten lightly. 

Raspberry-vinegar Water, 

(See page 230.) This is one of the most delightful 
drinks that can be made. 

Whey. 

That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially 
when the cows are in fresh herbage. 

White-wine Whey. 

Put half a pint. of new milk on the fire, the moment it 
boils up, pour in as much sound raisin-wine as will com- 
pletely turn it, and it looks clear; let it boil up, then set 
the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. 
Pour, the wbey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling 
water, and a bit of white sugar* Thus you will have a 
whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as 
you choose to make it, 

Vinegar and Lemon Wheys. 

Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon-juice 
as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot 
Water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of 
sugar. This- is less heating than if made of wine ; and if 
oyaly to excite perspiration, answers as well. 
BuUer mitfc with Bread or without. 

It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely 
to be heavy ; but most agreeable when made of sweet 
cream. 

Sweet Buttermilk. 

Take the milk from the cow into. a small chum, in 
about ten minutes begin churniog, and continue till the 
flakes of butter, swim about pretty thick, and the milk is 
discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin 
and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as fre- 
quently as possible. 

It should form the whole of the patient's drink, and the 
food should be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort ; 
ripe and dried fruits of various kinds, when a decline is ap- 
prehended. 

Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make e$- 
ceJUent suppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake- 



27$ DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

Orgeat 

Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange- 
flower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a 
quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten Wltfr' su- 
gar* or capillaire. . This is a fine drink for those who 
have a tender chest ; and in the gmit it is highly useful; 
and with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic, has 
been found to allay the painfuloess of the attendant heat. 
Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cool- 
ing in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat, may 
be put into a basin of warm water. 

Another orgeat, for company, is in page 225. 
Orangeade, or Lemonade. 
■ Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a little of the 
peel and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin sy- 
rup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the 
Infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will 
make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or 
squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capH- 
iaire* 

Egg Wine* 

Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set 
on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, su- 
gar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a little of it to the 
egg by degrees, till the whole be in, stirring it well; then 
return the whole into the sauce-pan, put it os a gentle fire, 
stir it one way for not more than a minute ; for if 4t boil, 
or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. 

Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the 
egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so 
pleasant to the taste. 

COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 

General Remarks and Hints* 
I promised a few hints, to enable every family to assist 
the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial expense ; 
and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of 
the mistress. 

' Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valu- 
able present, and a very common one. 
' When the oven is hot, a large pudding may be baked, 
and given to a sick or young family: and thus made the trou- 
ble is little; — Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound *£ 



— -• s- 



COOKIRY SOB, THfi POOIL j^g* 

rjce, fiwpr ounces of coarse sugar or molassea, two quarts of 
ttilk, and two ounces of dripping $ set it cold into the 
oven. It will take a good whije, bpt be an excellent scjid 
food. 

A very good nieal may be bestowed £n a tln'ng called 
brewis which is thus made ;— ? Cut a very thick UDper crust 
of bread, and put it into the pot wl^resajt teefis tioiling 
and near ready : it will .attract some of the fat, an$ whep 
swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to those who rare-* 
\j taste meat. 

A bafced Soup. 

Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two on- 
ions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of ric^e, a ,p)nt of split 
peas, or whole ones if previously soaked, pepper and sajt> 
into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water* 
€over it very close, and bake it with the bread. 

The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every 
piece of meat, ham, tongue, «kc. however salt : and it ja 
easy to use only a part of fliat, and the rest of fresh wa- 
ter, and by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of 
the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come 
from table on the plates, and rice, indian meal or barley, 
there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three 
times a-week. The bits of meat should be only warmed 
in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, &c. boiled till 
they yield their nourishment If the things are ready to 
put in .the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save 
lighting fire, and second cooking. 

Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of 
lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand; 
cut them small, and throw in, with the thick part of peas, 
after they have been pulped for soup, cracked corn or 
coarse meal. 

Should the soup be poor of meat, the long, boiling of the 
bones, and different vegetables, will afford great nourish- 
jnent. - In every family there is some superfluity ; and if 
it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be 
very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less tQ 
the giver. 

It very rarely happens that servants object to seconding 
the kindness of their superiors to the poor ; but should tb* 

* A 2 



£10 DOJCE»TIC COOHERT. 

eook in any family think the adoption of this plants* 
troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the winter might rev 
pay her, if the love of her fellow creatures failed -of doing' 
it a hundred fold. Did she readily enter into it, she 
Would never wash away, as useless, the peas &e. of which 
soup or gruel had been made; broken potatoes, the green 
beads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls, and particu- 
larly the shank* of mutton, and various other articled 
which in preparing dinner for the family are thrown aside.' 

Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part 
eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain 
an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the cook put by 
some of the water, and stew it m the above; as likewise 
add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the 
goodness. If to be eaten by Hselfc when it makes a de- 
lightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion* 
some pepper, and a little rice-flour nibbed down smooth 
with it. 

But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the 
Doeat-soup, particularly for the sick ; and when such are 
{b be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and 
meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the li- 
quor of the salt meats. 

The fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, as the 
poor like it; and are nourished by it 

An excellent Soup for the weekly. 

Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton into a large 
pan with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica 
peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four 
gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and bake six 
Sours. 

Sago. 

Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit 
of lemon-peel ; when thickened, grate some ginger, and 
add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and two spoon* 
fills of geneva 1 ; boil all up together. 

It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease haft 
left very feeble. 
* Caudle for the Sick and Lying-in. 

Set three quarts, of water on the fire; mix smooth as 
vuch fine indian meal as will thicken the whole, with a 



" IV ' •■ 



VARIOUS *ICEIPTSv 2|1 

pfet of cokl water; when boiling, pour the latter in, and 
twenty Jamaica peppers in (ine powder ; boil to a good 
middling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well 
fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. ' 

• This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be <rf 
incalculable service. 

There is not a better occasion for charitable commisera- 
tion than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding 
sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling 
long-lost appetite. 

Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for 
in the highest houses a real good sick-cook is rarely met 
with ; and many who possess alt the goods of fortune, have 
attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited 
by good kitchen-physic as it may be called. 



PART XIII. 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS 

TO SERVANTS. 

1 * * i 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS* 

8 

To make soft Pomatum. 

BEAT half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common 
water; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain if 
and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy ; let it drain from 
this ; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small 
pots. 

Another way. — Soak half a pound of clear beef-mar- 
row, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard in water, two or 
three days, changing and beating it every day. Put it 
into a sieve ; and when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a 
sauce-pan of water. ' When melted, poor it into a basioy 
and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy ; drain off the 
brandy ; and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or any 
other scent that is liked* 

Hard Pomatum, 

Prepare equal quantities of beef-marrow and muttony 
suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and adding 



sea *»i*B0Tic cpokfw. 

the scent: then pour it into moulds, or if you have flaae* 
into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. When 
cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass careJully, 
and put paper round the roils. - - 

The true Court Plaister,for cuts, scratches, pimples, &c. 

Cut the best isinglass in small pieces, and dissolve in 
brandy or rum, of good proof, so as to produce a strong 
viscid solution ; spread this with a soft brush upon black 
or flesh coloured taflfety, very thin but regular, when this 
first coat is quite dry, repeat a second and a third time, 
and after that a thiu coat of Peruvian balsam, laid on in 
like manner. 

To make Wash-balls. 

Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about 
a tea cupful of rose water; then pour as much boiling 
water on as will soften it Put into a brass pan a pint of 
sweet oil, a little oil of almonds, half a pound of sperma- 
ceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved ; then add the 
soap, and half an ounce of camphor, that has first been re- 
duced to powder by rubbing it in ft mortar with a few drops 
of spirit of wine, or lavender-water, or any other scent 
Bo:l ten minutes; then pour it into a basin, and stir it till it 
is quUe thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which roust 
then be done as soon as possible,. If essence is used, stir it 
h quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may 
not fly off. 

taste for Chopped Hands, and which will preserve them 

smooth by constant use. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog's lard, which 
ias been washed in common and then rose- water, with the 
yolks of two new- laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. 
Add as much fine oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work 
into a paste. 

Hungary Water. 

To one pint of highly rectified spirit of wine, put an 
Ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drachms of essence of 
ambergris; shake the bottle well several times, then let 
the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, 
during which time shake it daily, put the water into small 
, tottles? 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS* 20 

• * j , 

Honey Water. 

Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drachms of esv 
sence of ambergris; shake them well daily. 

Lavender Water. 

Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of lavendev 
one ounee, essence of ambergris two drachms ; put all into 
a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. 
An exceiknt Water to prevent hair from falling off, and 

to thicken it. 

Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still, 
with twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same 
quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as 
possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins 
to taste sour. 

Black Paper for drawing Patterns. 

Mix and smooth lamp-black and .sweet oil ; with a bit 
of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing paper 
with this mixture ; then daub the paper dry with a bit of 
fine linen, and keep it by for using in the following man- 
ner: 

Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fas tea 
the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back 
of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it 
with the point of a steel bodkin ; the black paper will thea 
leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on 
which you mustpow draw it with ink. 

If you draw patterns on cloth, or muslin do it with a 
pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a lit- 
tle water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be 
always ready for use ; if fresh, wet to a due consistence 
as wanted. 

To cement broken China. 

Beat lime into the mose impalpable powder, sift it 
through fine muslin : then tie some into a thin muslin ; put 
on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, thea 
duet some lime quickly on the same, and unite them ex* 
actly. 

An excellent Stucco, which will adhere to Wood-work. 

Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yellow 
ochre, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine 
powder. Mix them with a sufficient quantity of hot (but*. 



284. DOMBST1C COOKERY. 

not boiling) water, to a proper thickness : and lay it on, 
with a whitewash brush, which should be new. If the 
wall be quite smooth, one or two coats will do ; but each 
must be dry before the next is put on. The month' of 
March is the best season for doing this. 

Mason's Washes for Stucco. 

Blue. — To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of 
the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass 
pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time.' Then 
pour it into an earthen pan ; and set it by for a day or two 
till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix* 
the colour with whitewa&her's size. Wash the walls three 
or four times, according as is necessary. 

Yellow. — Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quan- 
tities separately of umber, bright ochre, and blue black. 
Then put it into as much white wash as you think suffi- 
cient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. 
If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you 
have the proper tint. 

The most beautiful white-wash is made by mixing the, 
lime and size with skimmed milk instead of water. 
To take Stains of any kind out of Linen* 

Stains caused by Adds. — Wet the part and lay on it 
some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting H 
with more water. 

Another. — Let the cloth imbibe a little water without 
dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due 
distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous 
gas. 

Another way. — Tie up in stained part some pearl-ash; 
then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, 
and boil the linen till the stain disappears. 

Stains of Wine, Fruit, &c. after they have hem long- in 
the Linen. — Rub the part on each side with soap. Thed 
lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub 
it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the 
stain comes out. If not removed in three or four days, 
rub that off, and renew the process. When dry it may be 
sprinkled with a little water. 

Many other stains may be taken out by dipping tho 
linen in sour buttermilk , and drying it in a hot sun. Then 
wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three time* a-day * 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 285 

Iron-moulds should be wetted, then, laid on a hot piateV 
Bod a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. 
If the linen beeomes dry* wet it and renew the process; 
observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the 
powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spuri- 
ous preparation 4 and therefore it is necessary to dip the 
linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the 
stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into 
holes by the acid. 

To take out the Mildew. — Mix soft soap with starch 
powdered, half as much salt, and the juke of a lemon ; lay 
it on the part on both sides with a painter's brush. Let it 
lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. 
To make Flannels keep their colour and not shrink. 

Tut them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting 
them lie till cold, the first time of washing. 

To preserve Furs and WooUenfrom Moths. 
- Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, 
and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not wanted, 
dry them first let them be cool, then mix among them 
bitter apples from the apothecary's, in small muslin bags, 
sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully turned in 
at the edges, and keep from damp. 

To dye the linings of Furniture, &c. 

Buff or Salmon-colour ', according to the depth of the 
hue.— Hub down on a pewter plate a little Spanish arnat» 
to, and theq boil it in a pail of water a quarter of an hour. 
Put into it two ounces of pot-ash, stir it round, and instant- 
ly put in the lining; stir it about all the time it is boiling, 
which must be five or six minutes ; then put it into cold 
pump water, and hang the articles up singly without wring- 
ing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. 

Bink. — The calico must be washed extremely clean 
and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and 
four ounces of alum ; take it out, and dry in the air. In 
the mean time boil in the alum-water two handfuls of wheat 
bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take two 
scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argall finely 
pounded and sifted ; mix with it the liquor by little at a 
time. Then put into the liquor the calico; and boil till 
it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the cali- 
co, and wash it in chamber-lye first, and in cold water af- 



286 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

ter ; then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick 
without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, un- 
less you have it calendered, which is best. 

Blue. — Let the calico be washed clean and dried; then 
mix some of Scot's liquid blue in as much water as will 
be .sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put 
some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit to 
eee whether the colour is deep enough ; then set the linen, 
&c. into it, and wash it; then dry the articles singly, and 
mangle or eallender them. 

To dye Gloves to look like York tan or Limerick, accord- 
ing to the deepness of the dye. 

Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling hot, 
and let it infuse all night ; next morning wet the leather 
over with a brush. The tops should be sewn close to pre- 
vent the colour from getting in. . 

To dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. 

Boil four ounces of logwood, and two ounces of reebe 
alum, in three pints of soft water till half wasted. Let it 
stand to be cold, after straining. Let the. gloves be nice- 
ly mended; then with a brush dp over them, and when 
dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the colour is to 
be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye with m. 
coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, and with a 
sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the 
hands, but wetting them with vinegar will take it oft be- 
fore they are* washed. 
A Liqwr to wash Old Deeds, Sec. on Paper or Parchment 

when the writing is obliterated, or when sunk, to make 

it legible. 

Take five or six galls, bruise thera, and put them into 
a pint of strong white wine ; let it stand in the sun two 
days. Then dip ^ brush into the wine, and wash the part 
of the writing which is sunk : and by the colour. you will 
see whether it is strong enough of the galls. 

To prevent the Rot in Sheep. 

Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. 
To prevent green Hay from firing. 

Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the 
mouth with a cord; and make the rick round the sack, 
drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite 



DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 28? 

out when finished. *he funnel thus left in the centre 
preserves it. 

To destroy Crickets. 
Put Scotch snuff upon the holes where they come oat. 

DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 

To clean Calico Furniture when taken down for the sunt" 

men 

Shake off all the loose dust, then lightly brush with a 
small long-haired furniture brush ; after which wipe it close- 
ly with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. 

If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well 
as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will not re- 
quire washing for years. 

Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. 

While the furniture remains up, it should be preserved 
from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure 
delicate colours ; and the dust may be blown off with bel- 
lows. 

By the above mode curtains' may be kept clean, even 
to use with the linings newly dipped. 

To clean Plate. 

Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn-powder in a quart 
of water; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as 
the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, 
drain it over the sauce-pan, and dry it over the fire. Put 
in more and serve the same till you have done. Then put 
into the water some dean linen rags till all is soaked up* 
When dry, they will serve to clean the plate, and are the 
very best things to -clean the brass knockers, locks and fin- 
ger-plates of doors. When the plate is quite dry, it must 
be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. 
In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, 
which is very injurious ; and, among other disadvantages, 
it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. 

To clean Looking-glasses. 

Remove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp rag ; 
then polish with woollen cloth and powder blue. 
. To preserve Gilding and clean it. 

It is not pos&ible to prevent flies from staining the gild- 
ing without covering it;, before which, blow off the light 
dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it : then with 



288 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

atripes of paper cover the frames of your glasses,, and dont 
remove it till the flies are gone. 

Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its brightness ; 
it should therefore never be used for wiping it. 

To clean Pate. 

Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little 
long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose parts with 
the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length 
of time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel in- 
to soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry immediate- 
ly, or the strength of the soda will eat off the. colour. 

When wainscot requires scouring, it . should be done 
from the top downwards and the soda be prevented from 
running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks 
will be made whkh will appear after the whole is finished. 
One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other 
had scouted off the dirt and washed the soda off. 

To clean Paper Hangings. * 

First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a 
white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the 
crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the pa- 
pa*, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the 
dumb. Dont cross nor go upwards/ The dirt of the 
paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you 
must not wipe above halFa yard at a stroke, and after do- 
ing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little 
above where you left off. If you dont do it extremely 
lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. 

It will look like new if properly done. 

To give a fine Colour to Mahogany. 

Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with Vinegar, 
having first taken out any ink stains there may be with 
spirit of salt ; but it must be used with the greatest care, 
and -only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed 
off. Use the following liquid; into' a pint of cold drawn 
linseed oil, put a little alkanet-root, and a little rose-pink, 
in an earthen vessel; let it remain all night, then stirring 
well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag; 
when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. 

JSating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or 
bajze, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when 
the dishes are taken off, while still warm. 



-«J- , 



DIRECTIONS TO SBBVANT6. 2$8 

« 

To take Ink out of Mahogany. 

Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large 
spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; 
watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. 
It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not 
quite removed. 

To clean Floor-cloths* 

Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel ; and when all * 
dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, and 
then with a dry plain one ; but use little wax, and rub only 
enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or it may 
endanger falling. 

Washing now and then with milk after the above sweep- 
ing and dry-rubbing them, give as beautiful a look, and 
they are less slippery. 

To dust Carpets and Floors* 

Sprinkle used tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully.' 

The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk 
brush, as it wears them fast ; only once a week, and the 
other times with the leaves and a hair-brush. 

Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand* 
brushy such as for clothes, on the knees. 

To* clean Carpets. 

Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, 
and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; turn it the 
right side upwards, and scour it w4tlu>3*gal],ftnd soap and 
water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then 
lay it on grass, or hang k up to dry. 

To give to Boards a beautiful appearance. 

After washing them very nicely clean with soda and 
warm water, and a brush, wash them with a very large 
sponge and clean water. Both times, observe to leave no 
spot untouched ; and clean straight up and down, riot cross* 
ing from board to board; then dry with clean cloths, rub- 
bing hard up and down in the same way. 

The floor should not be often wetted, but very thorough* 
ly when done ; and once aweek dry rubbed with hot sand, 
and a heavy brush, the right way. of the boards. 

The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, for 
floor-cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen 
or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Different spon- 



"•^ 



290 . DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

ges should be kept for the two above uses; and those and 
the brushes should be ivell washed when dooe with, and 
kept in dry places. 

To extract Oil from Boards or Stone* 

Make a strong ley of pearl-ashes and soft water ; and add 
as much unslaked lime as it will take up ; stir it together, 
and then let it settle a few minutes ; bottle it, and stop 
close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and 
scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on 
the boards, it will draw out the colour of them ; therefore 
do it with care and expedition. 

To blacken the fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces. 

Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of 
turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash 
the stone with soap and water very clean ; then sponge it 
with clear water 5 and when perfectly dry, brush it over 
twice with this colour, letting it dry between the times. 
It looks extremely well. The lamp-black must he sifted 
first. 

To preserve Irons from. Rust. 

Melt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while 
hot; then dust it well with unslaked lime pounded, and 
tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared will keep many 
months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad 
qil ; there being water in all other. 

Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, 
when riot used. 

Another way. — Beat into three pounds of unsalted hogs, 
lard, two drams of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolv- 
ed ; then take as much black-lead as will make it of the 
colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it 
thick on the stove, &c. and the «teel will never rust, evea 
if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed 
off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. 

To take Rust out of Steel. 

Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in 
forty. eight hours use unslaked lime finely powdered, to 
rub until all the rust disappears. 

To clean the Back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, 
and the fronts of Cast-Iron Stoves. 

Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black-lead, 
'with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the sko of * 



DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 291 

« 

walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter's brush, and 
wet the grate, having first brushed ofr all the soot and 
dust : then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful 
brightness. 

Another way to clean Cast-Iron, and Hack Hearths. 
Mix black-lead and whites of eggs well beaten together: 
dip a painter's brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright 
with a hard brush. 

To take the Black off the bright Bars of polished 
Stoves in a few Minutes, 
Rub them well with some of the following mixture on 
a bit of broad-cloth : whea the dirt i» removed, wipe them 
clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. 

The mixture."*- Boil slowly one pound ©f soft soap in 
two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or 
four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery. No. & 
To deem Tin Covers, and Pewter Ware* 
Get the finest whiting, which h only sold in large cake% 
the small being mixed with sand; mix a little of it pow- 
dered, with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well, and 
wipe clean; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin bag 
oyer, and rub bright with dry leather. The last id to pre- 
vent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against 
by wiping dry, and putting by the" fire when they come 
from the parlour; for if but once hung up without, the 
steam will rust the inside. £ 

To prevent the creaking of a Door. 
Rub a bit of agap on the hinges. 

A strong Paste for Paper.. 
To two large spoonfuls of fipe flour, put as much strong 
beer as will make it of a due consistence, and boil half ail 
hour. Let it be cold before it is used. 

Fine Blacking for Shoes. 
Take four ounces of ivory black, three ounces ef the 
coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet oil, and ft pint 
of small beer ; mix them gradually cold. 



*B3 



2G2 



qENEBAL REMARKS ON OfMNEBS. 

• • 

Things used at first Courses. — Various Soups. Fisfc 
dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle* Boiled 
meats and stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. Chawisof 
Bacon, Turkey and Fowls, chiefly boiled. Rump* Sm> 
loin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other 
roast Mutton. Roart Fillet, Loin, Seek, Shoulder aad 
breast of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Loin. Fore-Q,uarter. 
Chine. Lamb's-head and Mince. Mutton stuffed aad 
roasted. Steaks, variously prepared. Ragouts and Fri- 
cassees Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, 
Pish, and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg of 
Pork, Chiue, Loin, Spare-rib. Rabbits. Hare*. Pud- 
dings, boiled and baked. Vegetables, boiled and stewed* 
Calf s Head different ways. Pigs Feet and Ears differ- 
ent ways. In large Dinners, two Soups and two dishes of 
Rsh. 

Things for second Courses. — Birds: and Game of all 
sorts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted 
Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of Lamb roasteck 
Brawn.. Vegetables, stewed or in sauce. French Beans* 
Teas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled 
Oysters. Spinach. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Fruit 
Tarts. Preserve&tyruit Tarts. Pippins stewed. Cheese- 
cakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Pishes of 
which abundance are given from page 187 to 208, with 
directions for preparing them ; such as Creams, Jellies, 
and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince Pies, &c. On> 
tet. . Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, stewed or pickled* 

Having thus named the sort of things used for the 
two courses, the reader will think of many others. For 
.removes of Soup and Fish, one or two joints- of Meat 
or Fowl are served ; and for one small course, the ary 
tides suited to the second must make a part Where 
Vegetables and Fowls, &c. are twice dressed, they add to 
die appearance of the table the first time ; three sweet 
things may form the second appearance without greater 
expense. 

In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up with the 
vegetables or sauces proper to i% and this in succession 



■* ~* -s-ie- » - 



' GENERAL REMARKS OK DINNER*. £&*. 

hot and hot. In others, a course of Soup and Fish : then 
Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkeys, &c. Made Dishes 
and Game follow; and lastly, Sweet Dishes: but these 
are not the common modes. 

It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do 
not think of sending up such articles as are in the house 
unless ordered; though, by so doing, the addition of a 
collared or pickled thing, some Fritters, fried Patties, 
or quick-make Dumplings, would be useful when there 
happen to be accidental visitors : and at all times it is 
right to better the appearance of the table rather than let 
things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is 
more increased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables 
are put on the side-table at large dinners, as likewise sau- 
ces, and servants bring them round : but some inconve- 
niences attend this plan ; and, when there are not many to 
wait, delay is occasioned, besides that by awkwardness 
llifc clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the table 
is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too- 
mueb. 

SUPPERS. 

Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine 
very late. When required, the top and*bottom, or either, 
may be Game. Fowls. Rabbit Boiled Fish, Oysters 
stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, in 
white Sauce. Brocoli with eggs. Stewed Spinach and 
ditto. Sweetbreads. Small Birds. Mushrooms. Pota- 
toes. Scallop, &c. Cutlets* Roast Onions. Salmagundi. 
Buttered Eggs on Toast. Cold Neat's Tongue. Ram. 
Collared things. Hunter's Beef sliced. Rusks buttered. 
Grated Hung Beef with butter, with or without Rusks. 
Grated Cheese round, and Butter dressed in the middle 
ftf a plate. Radishes ditto. Custards in glasses with Sip- 
pets. Oysters cold or pickled. Potted Meats. Fish. 
Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake sliced. Pies of 
Birds or Fruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. Cray-fish, 
Any of the list of sweet things. Fruits. A Sandwich set 
with any of the above articles, placed a little distance from 
each other, on the table, looks well; without the tray, if 
preferred. 



294 DOMESTIC COOJCtftfV 

The lighter the things, the better they appear, and glass 
intermixed has the best effect Jellies, different coloured 
things, and flowers, adit to the beauty of the table. An 
elegant supper may be served at a small expense by those 
who know how to make trifles that are in the house from 
the greatest part of the meal. 

Note. — Any of the following things may be Served as a 
relish, with the cheese, after dinner. Baked or ptekled 
Fish done high. Pickled Herring. Sardinias, which 
eat like Anchovy but are large*. Anchovies. Potted 
Lampreys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and Sip- 
pets of Toast. Salad. Radishes. French Pie. Cold 
Butter. Potted Cheese. Anchovy Toasf£ Sic. Before 
serving a Herring, it is usual to cut to the bones without 
dividiug, at the distance of two inchee, from head to tail} 
before served. 



INDEX. 



A. 
AGJ&&, stains caused by, in 
' linen, various ways of taking 
out, 284 • 
Adulterations in the making of 

bread, how to detect, 240 
Ale,, to brew, 241 

or strong beer, to brew, 242 
to refine, 243 
Almond puddings, 145 

baked, 146 
small, ib. 
custard, 171 
cheesecakes, ib. 
two other ways, 172 
cream, 194 
Amber pudding, a very fine one, 

147 

Anchovies, to choose, 133 

to keep them when 
,the liquor dries, ib. 
sauce 130 
toast, 206 

another wav, 

ib. 

essence of, 133 
to make trout taste 
like anchovies, ib. 
Apple -water for the sick, ^77 
Apples, to prepare them for 
puffs, 167 . - 
to scald, 199- 
dried, 216 - 
dumplings or puddings, 
158 

fool, 191 
tart, 165 
marmalade, 215 
jelly to serve to table, 
198 ; another 199 

and rice, souffle, of 
187 



Apple, or gooseberry trifle, 1$1 

jelly for preserving apri- 
cots, or for any sort of sweet- 
meats, 215 

pie, 163 

hot, ib. 

pudding, baked, 147 

another, ^52 

puffs, 167 

sauce for goose andrtfast 

pork, 127 

to keep for several 

months, 324 

stewed golden pippins 

199 

red apples in jelly, 215 

Apricots, in brandy, 210 
to dry in half, ib. 
a beautiful preserve qf 
apricots, 209 

to preserve green, ib. 
to preserve in jelly, ib. 
apple-jelly, ib. 
cheese, 210 
pudding, an excellent 

one, 155 

dumplings, 158 
Arrow-root jelly, for the sick, 

269 
Artichokes, to dress, 174 
bottoms, 175 
Jerusalem, ib. 
bottoms, to keep for 
the winter* ib. 
Asses milk, 274 

artificial, three 
ways of making, ib. 
B 
Bacon, to choose, 45 
excellent* 85 
the manner of curing 
bacon, ib. 



r^r 



296 



I3DJEX 



«1i 



Barberries, to prepare for tart- 
lets, 508 

in bunches, 509 
JBar&y-water, 276; another, ib. 

gruel, 275 
Bass sea, to choose, 25 
to boil, 29 

streaked, to choose 25 
Batter pudding, 150 

with meat, 151 
Bean (green) pudding, 155 
Beans, to dress, 176 

fricasseed Windsor, ib. 
French, 177 
Beef, to choose, 44 
to keep, 51 

to salt for eating imme- 
diately, ib. 

to salt red ; which is ex- 
tremely good to eat fresh 
from the pickle, or to hang 
to dry, ib. 

the Dutch way to salt, 52 
a-la-niode, ib. 
a fricandeau of, 53 . 
stewed rump of, ib. 

another way, 54 
rump roasted, 54 
stewed brisket, ib. 
pressed beef, ib. 
hunter's beef, 55 
an excellent mode of 
dressing, ib. 
collared, ib. 
Beef steaks to dress, 56 

and oyster-sauce, ib. 
another way ib. 
Italian, ib. 
collop, ib. 
palates, 57 

cakes for side-dish of 
dressed meat, ib/ 

potted two ways, ib. 
to dress the inside of a 
cold sirloin, ib. 

fricassee of cold roast 
beef, 58 

to dress cold beef that 
has not been done enough, 
called beef-olives, ib. 



Beef, to dress the same, called. 
Sanders, 58, minced, ib. 

to dress the same called 
cecils ib. 
hashed, 59 
sUla viogrette, ib. 
round of beef, ib. 
rolled,that equals hare^b. 
heart, 61 
steak pie, 138 

pudding, 153^ _ 
baked, lb. 
a pickle for beef, that 
will keep for years 84 

pasty to eat as well as ve? 
nison, 1-69 
patties, 167 
broth, 268 
tea, 269 , 
Beer (strong), to bnew, 242 
table, excellent, 243 
to refine, ib. ' 
Beet-root, different ways of 
using, 180 '_ 

"to preserve to eat 
in the winter, 181 
Birds, a very economical way 

of potting, 105 
Biscuit, orange, 212 
* cake, 234 
of fruit, 219 
hard, 241 
plain and very crisp,241 

Naples, 235 
' Savoy; 234 
Black fish, to choose, 25 
to boil, 29 
to stew, 34 
to bake, ib. 

caps, two ways of Slak- 
ing, 199 

pudding, 81 
two other ways, ib. 
Blacking for shoes, fine, 291 
Blanching- a rabbit, fowl, &c. 

explained, 108 
Blanc-mange, or Blamange, 190 
Blue fish, to choose, 25 
Boards, to give them a beauti- 
ful appearance, 289 



XXUfKX. 



297 



Boardt, to extract oil from, 290 
Bailing meat, observations on, 

47 
Broiling explained, 99 

chickens braised, 100 
Brandy pudding, 156 
cream, 193 

apricots or peaches in 
brandy, 210 

cherries in brandy, 214 
Brawn, to choose, 45 
s souse for, 81 
mock, 80 
sauce, 126 
Bread, to make, 227 to 241 
economical, 239 
management of flour 
238 . 

rice and wheat bread, 
239 

French bread, ib. 
to discover whether 
bread has been adulterated 
with whiting or chalk, 240 
cake, common, 232 
pudding, boiled, 149 
another, 4nd richer, 
ib. 

puddings, a little, 148 
and butter pudding, 
146 

brown-bread pudding, 
149 

brown-bread ice, 201 
Bkkwsby CHoms), 241 to 251 * 
Brocoli, to dress, 176 
Broth. A quick made broth 
for the sick, 267 

a clear one that will keep 
long, ib, 

a very supporting one a- 
gainst any kind of weakness, 
' 2<{8 

of beef, mutton, veal, ib. 
Other broths are under differ- 
ent names, as Chicken broth, 
&c. 
Brewn-brvad pudding, 149 

. ice, 201 
Browning to colour and flavour 
made dishes, 135, 



Buck-wheat pancakes, 160 
Bun, a good plain one, 236 

richer ones, ib.. 
Burnt cream, two ways, 192 
Butter, to clarify, for potted 
things, 106 

to melt, 130 
to serve as a little disb, 
205 

orange butter, 200 
observations respecting 
it, in the dairy, 257 
to make, 258 
to preserve, ib. 
to preserve it in pans, 
for winter use, ib. 

to manage cream for 
whey-butter, 259 

to choose at market, 
260 
Buttered rice, 187 
lobsters, 41 
prawns and shrimps, 41 
Buttermilk, 259 

with bread or with- 
out, for the sick, 277 

sweet buttermilk, ib. 
pudding, 156 
C 
Cabbages (red), to pickle, 185 
. (red), to stew, 177 
two other ways ib. 

small to keep for 
the winter, 181 
Cakes, &c. 227 to 241 

observations on making 
and baking cakes, 227 
iceing for cakes, 228 
to ice a very large cake, 
ib. 

a common cake, ib. 

a very 
good one, ib. 

an excellent cake, ib. 
a very fine one, 229 
rout drop-cakes, ib. 
flat cakes that will 
keep long in the house good, 
230 

little white cakes, ib. 
little short cakes, ib. 






398 isoil 

Cakes, plum-cake, 230; ano- 
ther way,. 251 

very good common 
plum-cakes, ib. 

little ones, 
to keep long, ib. 

a good pound cake, ib. 
a cheap seed-cake, 232 
another, ib. 
common bread-cake, ib. 
queen-cakes ; two ways 
of making, ib. and 233 
Shrewsbury cakes, ib. 
Tunbridge cakes, ib. 
rice cake ; two ways of 
of making, ib. 
water cakes, ib. 
sponge-cakes, . ib., an- 
other, without butter, 234 
tea-cakes, ib. 

as biscuits, ib. 
another sort, ib. 
■ biscuit-cake, ib. 
Johnny cake, 237 
slapjacks, ib. 
Yorkshire cake, 241 
Cake-trifle, 191 
Cede (sea'), 181 

Calf* s feet broth, two ways, 268 
jelly, 197 
another sort, ib. 
Valfs-head, to boil 69 
to hash, 70 
another way, ib. 
fricasseed, 71 
to collar, ib. 
pie, 139 
Golfs-liver, broiled, 73 
roasted, ib. 
liver and lights to dress, 

73 
Calico furniture, to clean when 
taken down for the summer, 

287 
Camp vinegar 131 
To Candy any sort of fruit 208 
Ca^er* to keep 187 

an excellent substitute 

for caper-sauce 129. 
Carp, to choose, 26 



Carp boiled, 34 
stewed, ib. 
' baked ib. 

Carpets, to dust, 288 
to clean, ib. 
Carrier sauce for mutton, 128 
Carrole of rice, 203 
Carrots, to boil, 179 
to stew, ib". 
to preserve, to eat in 
the winter, 181 

pudding 155 
* soup 116 
Carving, directions for, xvi to 

xxm 
Casuiron, to clean stoves of 2SKJ 

another way, 291 
Candle for the siok, three ways 
of making, 272 

a flour caudle, good for 
babies who have weak sto- 
machs, 272 

rice, ib. ; another, ib. 
cold, ib. 

to give away to the 
poor sick, and lyingr-in, 280 
Cauliflower*} to boil, 176 

in white sauce, ib. 
to dress with. Par- 
mesan, ib. 
Cdvetich, pickled mackarel so 

called, 35 
Cecils, 58 

Ce;ery,'U) stew, 175 
~ Otment for broken china , 283 
Cf*antWy cake, 191 
Charlotte, a 158 
Cheese, to pot, 205 

to roast, to come up af- 
ter dinner, 205 

WeUh^abbit,206 
toast, 206 

damson cheese, 218 
plum cheese, SI 8 
Cheese is also under different 
names, as cream-cheese, apri- 
cot cheese, Stc. 

Observations res- 
pecting it is the dairy, 
253 



INDKX. 

Cheese, to prepare rsnnet to 
turn the milk ; two Ways 254 
to make cheese, 355 
to preserve it sound ib. 
to make sage-cheese, 

256 

cream cheese, ib. 
rash cream-cheese, 257 
Cheesecakes, light paste for, 164 
way for making 
them, 171 

a plainer sort, ib. 
another way, ib. 
lemon, ib. 

another, 172 
orange, ib. 

a very fine 
crust for them, when to be 
particularly *nice, 162 
potatoe, 172 
almond, ib. 
two other ways, 173 . 
Cheese-puffs, 168 
Cherry-pie, 163 

CherrieSjXo keep (like currants) 
222 

in brandy, 214 
to dry cherries with 
sugar, 213 

without 
sugar, 214 

to dry them the best 
way* ib. 

jam ib. 

to preserve, 222 
Chickens, to pot with ham, 67 
scallops of cold, 68 
-fricassee of, 99 
to pull chickens, 99 

- another way, 100 
to braise chickens, ib. 
chicken currie, ib. 

another 
more easily made, ib. 

chicken and parsley 

pie, 139 

chicken pie, 141 
raised crust for, 144 
broth,269/ 
panada for the si€k,270 



299 

Chicken, to fatten Chickens in 
four or fifye days, 262 

Chimney-pieces, stone, to black- 
en the fronts of, 290 

Chma, oroken, aoemehtfor,"283 

China-chiloo 91 

orange juice* gootitotmx 
with water for fevers, 225 

Chocolate to prepare 273 
cream, 194 

Chopped tiands, paste for, 282 

Clary wine, 247 

Cocoa, 274 

CloutzdzxQsrti 196 

Clam Soap 130 

Cockle ketchup 186 

Cod, to choose, 25 ' 

observations on buying 



aaul dpee-sing, si 

head and shoulders, ib. 
crimp, &2 
sounds boiled, ib. 
broiled, ib. 
dressed, to look 
like small chickens, ib. 
sounds ragout, ib. 
currrie of cod, ib. 
salt, to dress, ib. 
pie, 137 
Coffee, to make, 2?3 

cream much admired, 
193 

milk, 273 
Colouring' for soups or gravies, 
111 

to stain jellies, ices, 
or cakes, 202. 
Collops, mutton, 89 

veal collops €7. 
another way ib. 
Coilops Scotch 69 

Veal dressed quick 67 
Cookery for the sick 267 
for the poor 278 
Cough extract of malt for 244 
Court plaister to make 282 
Coxo-lieels various ways of dres- 
sing 62 

jelly of useful for 
soups and gravies 111 
C 



300 



INDEX 



Cews management of 252 
Crab* to choose 26 
hot 42 

dressed cold, ib* 
Cracknuts 235 
Cracknels 236 

Cranberries different ways of 
dressing 225 

jelly 198 
and rice jelly ib. 
Creaking of doors how to pre- 
vent 291 
Cream. A cream 192 

an excellent one ib. 
burnt two ways of do- 
ing 192 

sack ib. 
brandy 193 

ratifia two ways of mak- 
ing ib. 

lemon ib. 
yellow lemon-cream 
without cream ib. 

white lemon-cream 194 
' imperial ib. 
almond ib, 
snow ib. 

coffee-cream much ad- 
mired ib. 

chocolate ib. 
apple 195 

orange-cream an excel- 
lent one ib. 
Cream raspberry two ways of 
making ib. 
spinach ib 
clouted cream 196 
a froth to set on cream 
which looks and eats well ib. 
ice-creams, 201 
ratafia cream ib. 
To manage cream in the 
dairy for making whey-but- 
ter 259 - 

to scald 259 
to keep 259 
syrup of 260 
Cream-cheese three ways of 
making it 256 

rush cream cheese 
tw o ways of making it %S7 



Crickets to destroy 287 
Crust raised for meat-pies or 
fowls 144 

for venison pasty 161 
raised for custards or 
fruit ib. 

excellent short 162 

another ib. 
another not sweet but rich 
ib. 

a very fine one for jarange 
cheesecakes or sweetmeats 
when to be particularly nice 
ib. 

for meat ^pies or fowls 
&c. see the article Paste. . 
Cucumbers to stew. 175 

another way 
ib. 

and onions sliced 
to pickle 184 

to preserve them 
green ib. 

vinegar 131 
to pickle young 
cucumbers 184 
Cumberland pudding 150 
Curd star, 190 
Curds and cream 189 

another way, 
190 

and whey as in Italy 260 
puddingy or puffs 156 
pudding boiled ib. 
CwTonts to keep 222 

dumplings or pudding 
158 

pie 164 

and raspberry pies or 
tarts ib. 

jelly red or black 215 
jam, black, red, or 
white ib. 

sauce for venison 128 
white currant shrub 
251 

water ice 201 
wine 245 

another way ib. 
black currant wine, ve- 
ry fine ib. 



TNOEX. 



391 



Currie rice boiled to eat with 

136 
Custards raised crust for 161 
cheap and excellent 
ones 170 

richer ib. 
baked ib. 
lemon ib. 
almond 171 - 
a froth to set on 
custard, which looks and 
eats well 196 
Custard pudding 154 
Cutlets Maintenon 67 

Another way ib. 
other ways ib. 
Cyder to refine 243 

D 
Daiet, 252 to 267 
Damsons to keep Qike cur- 
rants 222 

to keep for winter 
pies 224 ; another way ib. 
cheese 218 
dumplings or pud- 
dings 158 
Deeds (old) a wash to make 

their writing legible, 286 
Dinners general remarks con- 
cerning, 292 
Doors to prevent from creaking 

291 
Drink a very wholesome one 
for the sick, 275 

a refreshing one in a fe- 
ver ib. 

two other ways ib. 
a most pleasing drink 276 
draught for a cough, ib. 
Drops lemon 220 

ginger a good stomachic 
ib, 

peppermint ib. 
ratafia 221 
Duck* to choose 95 
to roast 101 
to boil ib. 
to stew ib. 
to hash ib. 
wild to dress 107 
sauce for 124 



Duck pie 143 

Management of ducks 
in the poultry-yard, 264 
Dumplings 157 

suet 158 
apple ib. 
currant ib. 
damson ib. 
yeast ib. 
Dunelm of cold veal or fowl 66 
Dutch flummery, 189 

pudding or souster 147 
sauce for meat or fish 126 
To Dye the linings of furni- 
ture fee. 285 

gloves, 286 
£ 
Eels to choose 26 / 
spitchcock 38 
fried ib. boiled ib. 
broth ib. 

for the sick 269 
collared 38 
stewed (lamprey) 39 
soup 119 
pie 137 
Eggs buttered 206 
Scotch 207 
to poach 206 
sauce 126 

wine for the sick 378 
little eggs for turtles 135 
mince pies 164 
■ different ways of prepar- 
ing eggs for the sick 271 

to choose egg at market 
and to preserve them 263 
Elder vine, 246 

white very much 
like Frontiniac 247 
Elder -mine, 246 

white very much 
like Frontiniac 247 
Essence of anchovies 133 
Eve's pudding 150 
Extract of malt for coughs 244 

F 
Feathers care and management 

of 263 
Fevers. China orange juice, a 
very useful thing to mix with 



3Q2 



ISDEX. 



water in fevers, when the 
fresh juice cannot be had, 
235 
Firmity 189 
Fish 25 to 43 

how to choose 25 
obaervations on dressing*, 
27 

to force 135 
to fry small pan 38. 
pie a remarkably fine one. 
138 

gravy strong 123 
jelly to cover cold fish ibu 
sauce for fish pies 127 
sauce without butter 129 
sauce ib. 

a very fine fish sauce 12S 
Flartneh to make them keep 
their colour and not shrink, 
285 
Floating-uUmd 188 

another way ib. 
liBwr-cUtfo directions respect- 
ing them 288 
-Ftoor* to dust 28 
Flounders to choose 27 

to fry 37 

an excellent way of 
dressing a large one ib. 
soup 119 
Flour management of in mak- 
ing bread 238 
Flummery 189 

Dutch ib. 
rice ib. 
Fool gooseberry 191 
apple ib. 
orange 192 
Forcemeat to make 134 

for patties, balls or 
stuffing ib. 

ingredients for ib. 
to force meat or 
fowls, ib. 

for cold savoury pies 

very fine forcemeat 
balls for fish soups, or fish 
stewed on maigre days ib. 

for turtle ib. 



Forcing explained 13.4 
Fowls to choose 04 
boiled 97 

boiled with rice ib. 
Fotvlt roasted 98 

broiled two ways lb- . - 
Davenport fowls ib. 
a very nice way to dress 
fowl for a small dish ib. 
to force 99 
to braise ib. 

fricassee of chickens ib. 
«auce for 135 
a good sauce for hiding 
the bad colour of fowls 124 
white sauce for fricassee 
of fowls ib. 

sauce for cold fowls ib. 
mushroom sauce for 
fowls ,125 

lemon white sauce for 
boiled fowls ib. 
to blanch 108 
a dunelm of cold 65 
to roast wild fowl 106 
vingaret for cold fowl 
130 
collops of cold chicken 68 
to pot chicken withliam 
G7 

Management of fowls in 
the poultry yard 26Q 

to fatten them in four or 
five days 262 
French Be cms, to dress 176 

to preserve to eat 
in the winter, 131 
French pie 143 
. bread 239 
rolls 240 
Fricandeau of beef 53 
of veal 68 

a cheaper 
but equally good one ib. ; an- 
other way ib. 
Fricassee of fowls rabbits &c. 
sauce for 125 

crust for 149 
of parsnips 180 
Fritters 159 

Spanish ib. 



IKDEX 



503 



Fritter* potatpe, 160 

another way ib. * 
F*oth to ^et on cream, custard 
or trifle, which looks and 
jeats well 196 
Fruity to preserve for tarts or 
family desserts 224 
raised crusts for 161 
remark on using preserv- 
ed fruits in pastry 163 

to preserve for .winter use 
221 

to prepare for children 

a far more wholesome way 

than in pies & puddings 200 

to green for preserving 

or pickling 208 

to candy any sort of ib. 
biscuits of 219 
stains how to take them 
out of linen 284 
Frying herbs 180 

dish of frying herbs 

and liver 207 
Furniture linings to dye them 
of different colours 285 

calico to clean when 
taken down for the summer 

287 
Furs to preserve from moths 

285 

G 
Game, &c. 104 to 110 
to choose 104 
directions for dressing ib. 
Giblets to stew 102 
soup 113 
pie 142 
Gilding to preserve and clean 

287 
Ginger drops a good stomachic 

220 

wine excellent 246 
another ib. 
Gingerbread 236 

another sort ib. 
a good plain sort 
237 

a good sort with- 
out butter ib. 



Gr 
G 




Glove*, to dye them like York 
tan or Limerick, 286 

to dye white ones a 
beautiful purple ib. 
Golden pippins stewed 199 
Geese to choose 94 
to roast 101 
green-goose pie 142 
Management of geese in 
the poultry-yard 264 . 
Gooseberries to keep 222 

another way 223 
another ib. 
trifle 191 
fool ib. 
hops 217 
jam for tarts 216 
another ib 
white ib. 
pudding baked 155 
vinegar 131 
to clean the backs of 290 
120 to 124 
general directions 
cting 120 

colouring for 111 
a clear brown stock 
for gravy-soup or gravy ib. 
soup 115 

to draw gravy that 
will keep a week 121 

a clear gravy ib. 
brown gravy or cul- 
lis ib. 

a rich gravy 122 
a gravy without 
meat ib. 

for a fowl when there 
is no meat to make it of ib. 

to make mutton eat 
like venison ib. 

a -strong fish-gravy 
123 
Green to stain jellies, ices or 
cakes 202 

to green fruits for pre* 
serving or pickling 208 
Green-sauce for green geese or 

ducklings 126 
Green gages to preserve 218 
C 2 



304 va 

Ground rice pudding 157 

id ilk 374 
Gtoute to dress 166 
Grurf water 373 
barley ib. 
Gudgemu tocbooss 36 
Guinea-faxL to dress 107 

umnagemeitt of 
Guinea-hoi* in the poultry- 
yard use 

H 

//«dH«k36 

to dry ib, 

stuffing fop ib. 
Hair an excellent water to pre- 
vent it from falling off and 
to thicken it 383 
Hami to chouse 45 
to cure 83 

three other ways of car-, 
iujjf them 113 

a still higher fluvouMlt. 
a pickle for thern^Pbt 
will keep for year* 8-1 \, ' 
to dress ib. 
sauce 133 
Ifhngings paper to clean 288 
/fores to choose 95 

directions concerning 107 
to roast 108 
to prepare and keep ib. 
to jug an old bare ib. 
broiled and hashed ib. 
pie to eat cold 143 
to pot 108 
tfom'coofveal 66 
of mutton 87 

trarslet 80 
BdrUhtrn jelly 198 
May green to prevent it from 
firing 386 



Iferringi friefl .40 

broiled ib. 

(red) to dress ib. 

potted ib. 

(like lobster) ib. 

baked ib. 
Ifcaiun soup and ragout 117 
Hoe cake 337 

Hog'i bead, to make excellent 
meat of 78 

cheeks to dr 79 

? mattings white 83 
ardib. 
Ho»-iibb«ijh 341 to 251 

Honey-comb lemon 2Q3 
Hops gooseberry 217 
Hotchpotch an excellent oae 90 
aliotter 91 
i steaks, white 92 
brown ib. 
I{tatgary--aater to make 283 



Ict'uig for tarts 161 
for cakes 328 

to ice a very large cake 

let how to prepare for i«in^ 



>r rasp berry water 

brown bread ice ib. 
creams ib. 

colouring for staining ices 
202 

cream 194 
Indian pickle 182 

pudding baked 149 
boiled 150 
Iron-mtuld>. to take them out 



,. another way 291 
Herb pie 144 

frying herbs and liver 
180—307 
Barring* to choose 35 
to smoke 39 



ofli 



n284 



Irons, to preserv* them from 
rust 390 

another way ib. 

Jam. Cheny jam 314 



W" 



xspsx. 



3Q* 



Jam* currant jam red, black, 
or white 215 

Gooseberry jam for tarts 
216 

white ib. 

raspberry jam %VI 
Jelly a savoury one for pies to 
eat cold 123 

to cover cold fish ib. 

caifs-feet Jelly 197 

orange 198 

hartshorn ib* 

cranberry ib. 

cranberry and rice jelly 
ib. 

apple to serve at table 
two way* of making ib. 

to cover meat or any re- 
lishing pie; to be eaten cold 
123 m • 

colourings to stain jel- 
lies 202 

currant jeUy s red or 
black 215 

apple jelly for preserv- 
ing apricots or for any sort of 

sweetmeats ib. 

red apples in jelly ib. 

for the sick 269 
restorative pork jelly ib. 

shank jelly ib. 
arrow-root jelly ib. 
tapioca jelly 270 
another jelly ib. 
Other jeltvea are under the 
names of the different prin- 
cipal articles tbey are made 
of, as calf Vfeet jelly, 8tc. 
Jerusalem artichokes to dress 

175 
Johnny cake 237 
Jugged hare 10$ 
Junket $Q2 

K. 
Kebobbed mutton 94 
Ketchup mushroom 186 
another way ib. 
walnut of the finest 
sort ib. 

cockle %. 



Kidney veal 73 

mutton 90 

pudding 153 
Kitchen pepper 132 

h 

Lamb to choose 45 
pie 141 
leg 91 

fore quarter ib. 
breast and cucumbers ib. 
shoulder forced with sor- 
rel sauce 92 
steaks ib. 

house-lamb steaks white 
lb. 

brown ib. 
cutlets with spinach ib 
head and hinge 93 
lamb's fry ib. 
sweetbreada ib. * 

Lambstones fricasseed ib. 

fricassee of them 
and sweetbreads another way 
ib. 

a very nice dish 94 
Lamprey to stew 39* 
Lard 82 
Larks and other small birds to 

dress 104 
Lwoendor+water to make 283 
Leek soup 1 17 

and pilehardpie 138 
Lemons to keep for puddings 
&c. 213 

mince-pies 164 

to preserve in jeUy 212 

cheesecake 171 

another ib. 
cream 193 

yellow without cream ib. 
white ditto 194 
custards 170 
drops 220 
honeycomb 208 
marmalade 2 tl 
juice to keep 224 
pickled lemons 183 
lemon pickled 188 
pudding an excellent one 
147 



-1 



3 



06 



19*1* 



Lemon puffs 168 
sauce 128 

white sauce for boiled 
fowls or a fricassee 125 
water for the sick, 276 
and vinegar whey 277 
Lemonade to be made a day be« 
fore wanted 225 

another way ib. 
that has the flavour 
and appearance of jelly 226 
for the sick 278 
Lent potatoes 187 
Light puddings or puffs 148 
Lights (calfs) and liver to dress 

73 
Linen how to take stains of fruit 
or acids out of, also iron- 
moulds and mildew 285 
Linings of furniture to dye of 
different colours ib. 
Liver (calfs) broiled 73 
roasted ib. * 

dish of frying herbs and 
liver 180 
sauce 136 
Lobsters lo choose 26 
to pot them 40 
to pot another way ib. 
stewed- as a vcfry high 
relish 41 

buttered ib. - * 
to roast ib. 
currie of them ib. 
&oup excellent 120 
sauce 130 

another way ib. 
pie 137 
patiies 167 
salad 178 
Looking-glasses to clean 287 
M 

Macaroni as usually served 204 

two other ways ib. 

dressed sweet a very 
nice dish of 188 

soup 113 

pudding 154 
Macaroons 235 
Mackarel to choose 26 



Mackarel boiled 35 
broiled ib. 
collared ib. 
potted ib. 

(like lobsters) 20 
pickled 35 

pickled called cavc- 
ach ib. 

pie (like cod) 137 . 
Mahogany to give a fine colour 
to 288 

to take ink out of 289 
Malt extract offer coughs 244 
Mangoes melon 183 
Marmalade orange 210 
quince 219 
lemon 211 
transparent ib, 
apple 215 
bell pear 219 
Marrow bones 62 
Mead sack Z49 

an excellent way 249 
Meat 44 to 49 

to choose 44 to 45 
observations on purchas- 
ing keeping and dressing- 45 
to 49 

to. keep meat hot ib. 
Mefon mangoes 183 
Melted butter an essential arti- 
cle rarely well done 130 
Mildew to take" it out of linen 

285 
Mitk to keepfn the dairy 252 
rice andsago 203 
coffee milk 573 
sago milk 272 
ground-ice milk 274 
asses-milk ib. 
Milk-porridge y ib. 

French ib. 
Milk-punch or verder 251 
MincC'pie t 163 

without meat 164 
lemon ib. 
egg ib. 

patties resembling 
mince pies 167 
Mock-brawn 80- 



ISIWXk 



307 



f 



Mock-turtle 71 

a cheaper way 72 
another ib. 
another ib. 
Moor-fowl to dress with red 

cabbage 105 
Moor-Game to pot 106 
Muffins 241 

Mulled wine two \yays 272 
Mullets to choose 26 

red to dress 05 
Mushrooms observations re- 
specting 1 177 

to dry 132 

an excellent way to pic- 
kle to preserve the flavour 
185 

} ketchup 186 

another way ib. 
to stew 178 
powder 133 
sauce very fine for 
fowls or rabbits 125 
Mustard to make 132 

1 another way for imme- 
diate use ib. 
Mutton to choose 44 

observations on keeping 
and dressing 85 
leg 86 
neck ib. 

shoulder roasted ib. 
haunch, ib. 
saddle to roast 87 
fillet braised ib, 
harico ib. 
to hash. ib. 

shoulder boiled with 
oysters 88 
breast ib. 
lorn ib. •• 
rolled loin ib. 
ham ib. 
collops 89 
cutlets ib* 
steaks ib. 

steaks of mutton or 
laffib and cucumbers ib. 
steaks Maintenon 90 
sausages ib. 



Mutton rumps and kidney, 90 
- an excellent hotch-potch 
ib. 

another 91 
kebobbed ib. 
- China chilo ib. 
broth 111 
pie 140 
pudding 153 

another 15S 
pasty to eat as well as 
venison 169 
O. 
Oatmeal pudding 147 
Oil haw to extract from boards 
* or stone 290 

Old deeds, darters &c. on paper 
or parchment when the wri- 
ting is obliterated or sunk, 
to make it legible 286 
Olives 184 
Omlet 204 
Onions pickled 184 

diced with cu- 
cumbers ib. 
sauce 126 
soup 116 
to slew 175 
to roast ib. 

store-onions to preserve 
. in winter 181 
Orangeade for the sick 278 
Orange butter 200 

marmalade 210 
biscuits or little cakes 
212 

cheesecakes 172 

a very nice crust 
for orange cheesecakes 162 
chips 212 
fool 192 

cream excellent ib. 
jelly 198 
(China) juice ; a very use- 
ful thing to mix water with 
in fevers, when the fresh 
juiee cannot be had 225 

pudding three ways of 
making, 146 • 
tart 165 



308 



1KBIX, 



Vrange-Jhwer cakes, 211 
Orange*, to keep for puddings 
&c. 213 

preserved to fill a cor- 
ner dish 211 < 

whole carved ib. * 
to preserve in jelly 212 
Orgeat two ways 225 

for the sick 278 
Ox-clieek stewed plain 61 

to dress it another way 
62 

feet various ways of 
dressing ib. « . 

rump soup 117 
Oysters to .choose 27 
tofeed42 
to stew ib. 
boiled ib. 
scalloped ib. 
fried ib. 
loaves 43 
to pickle ib. 
another way ib. 
patties ib. 

or small ]iies 166 
sauce to beefsteaks 129 
soup 120 
P. 
Paint to clean 268 
Palates beef 57 
Panada made in five minutes 
for the sick 270 
two others ib. 
chicken ib. . 
Pancake* common 156 

fine ones fried without 
butter or lard 159 
Irish ib. 
of rice ib. 
New England ib. 
buckwheat 160 
Paper black for drawing pat- 
terns 283 
Paper-hanging* to clean 288 
Parmesan and cauliflower how 

to dress 176 
Parsley sauce when no parsley 
leaves are to be had 126 
pie 143 



Parsley to preserve fbr the ' 

winter 181 
Parsnips fricassee of 180 
to mash ib. 
to preserve to eat in ' 
the winter 181 
partridges to choose 95 
to roast 105 
to pot ib. 

a very cheap way lb. ' 
sauce for them cold 
125 

soup 113 
pie in a dish 143 
Paste rich puff 160 

a less rich one ib. 
rich for sweets- 161 
rice for relishing tfctftgs 
ib. 

potatoe ib. 

light for tarts andcheese- 
cakes 164 

strong for paper "291 
for chopped lips 282 
for chopped hands ib. 
PastRt 160 to ITS 

observations -on 162 
remarks on using* pre- 
. served fruit in 163 
Pasty, to prepare venison fir 
168 

venison pasty 169 
' of beef or nmt'ton • to "eat 
as well as venison ib. 
"potatoe 1H) 
Patties fried 166 * 
oyster ib. ■" 

or small pie ib. 
' . lobster 16T * 
beef or podovies ibr 
veal ib. 
turkey ib. 
sweet ib. 

resembling mince-pies 
ib. 

forcemeat for 134 / 
Other patties are under the 
names of the articks they are 
made of. 
Peaches in brandy 210 



urn**. 



309 ' 



Peaches to preserve 209 

to dry 210 
Pea-fowl to dress 107 

management of them 
in the poultry yard 265 
Pears stewed 200 
baked ib. 

to preserve most beauti- 
fully 216 . 
Peas to boil 174 

(old) soup 114 
(green) ditto ib. 
to stew 174 

• to keep 173 

- another way 174 
Pepper kitchen 132 
Peppermint drops 220 
Pepper-pot 113—207 
Perch 34 

to choose 26 

to fry (like trout) 35 
Pettitoes 77 
Pewter to clean 291 
Pheasants to choose 96 

* to roast 105 
Pickles 181 to 187 

rules to be observed 
■with regard to them 181 

pickle that will keep 
for years, for hams tongues 
or beef 84 

Pickles are under the 
names of the articles pickled. 
Pies savoury 116 

observations on 136 
fruit pies, &c. 162 
Pies ace under the names 
of the principal articles they 
are made of, as Apple pie, Mel 
pie &c. 
Pig (sucking) to scald 77 

to roast ib. 
Pig's cheek, to prepare for 
boiling 78 

head collared 78 
Pig's feet and ears, different 
ways of dressing 80 
fricasseed ib. 
jelly of feet and ears ib. 

souse for. ib. 
harslet ib. 



Pigeons to choose 95 

various ways of dressing 
102 

to stew two ways 102 
to broil ib. 
to roast 103 
to pickle ib. 
in jelly ib; 
, the same a beautiful 
dish ib. 

■ * to pot 104 
pie 142 

management of live 
pigeons 266 
Pike to choose 26 
to bake 36 
stuffing for ib. 
Pilchard and 4«ek pie 138 
Pipers to dress 36 
Pippin pudding 1*7 
tart 165 

stewed golden pippins, 
199 
Plate to clean 287 * 
Plovers to choose 95; 
, to drafts 107 
to dress their eggs 107 
Phtms excellent as a sweetmeat 
or in tarts though bad to eat 
raw 220 
Plum-cake two ways of making 
230 

very good common 
ones 231 

little ones to keep 
long ib. 
Plum pudding common 154 & 

155 
Pomatum soft to make 281 
another way ib. 
hard ib. 
Poor, coorxbt roa 278 

general re- 
marks and hints on this sub- 
ject ib. 
Potk to choose 45 

to salt fbr eating imme- 
diately 51 

remarks on cutting up 
74 

to roast a leg ib. 



310 



INIKX. 



Pork to boil a leg ib. 

a loin and neck roast 75 
shoulders and breast ib. 
rolled neck ib. 
spring and forehand ib. 
spare rib ib. 
griskin ib. 
blade-bone, ib. 
to dress pork as lamb ib. 
to pickle 76 
steaks ib. 
sausages ib. 

an excellent sausage to 
cat cold ib. *■•'.• 

pies excellent to eat cold 
140 

jelly restorative 269 
Porker's bead to roast 78 
Portable soup 118 
Potatoes to boil 178 
to broil 17$ 
to roatt ib. 
to fry ib. 
to mash ib, 
cheesecakes 172 
Lent 187 
paste 161 
pasty 170 
pie 144 

pudding an excellent 
plain one 152 

pudding with meat, 153 
tolls 240 * 
Potted shrimps 42 
Potting birds a very cheap way 
105 

to clarify butter for pot- 
ted things 106 
PotJJLTRT, &c. 94 to 104" 

directions for dress- 
ing 96 

POULTRT-TAEI) 260 

Potmd cake good 231 
Prawns to choose 227 
to butter 41 
and cray-fish in jelly 
ib. 
Preserves &c. 208 to 226 
Preserved fruit remarks on 
using it in pastry 163 



Preserved Pruits to preserve 

fruit for winter use 221 ' 
Princeton college pudding t49 
Prune tart 165 
Puddings, &c. 14$ to 160 

observations on mrfk- 
f ing them 145 

a quick made one 157 
in haste 148 
to keep orafiges or le- 
mons for 213 ** 
Other puddings are uri&er the 
names of the principaLarfi- 
cles they are made of,or their 
first names as Bread pudding, 
* Digftt pudding, &c. 
Pu^paste rich 160 

less rich ib. 
Puffs excellent Hght ones 168 
apple puffs 167 
lemon pofifc 168 
^ cheese puffs ib. 

to prepare apples for 
puffs 167 
Pvits <V amour, 188 * *- 
Pumpkin pudding 152 
Punchy an excellent method of 
making 250 

milk or verder, 2&I 
two ways ib. 
Purple a beautiful one for dy- 
ing gloves 286 

Q. 

Quails to dress 107 

Quaking pudding i$0 

Queen cakes two ways of mak- 
ing 232 

Quick-math pudding 1§7 

Quinces to preserve whole or 
half 219 * 

, quince marmalade 219 

K t 

Babbits to choose 95 

various ways of dress- 
ing 107 

to make them taste much 

like hare 109 

to pot ib. 

to blanch 110 

pie (like chicken) 142 

fricasseed crust for 144 



XHBSX. 



311 



- management of lire rab- 
bits 266 
Ragout (Hessian) and soup 

117 
Raised crust for custards or 

fruit 161 

for meat-pies or 

fowls, &e. 144 
Raisin wine excellent 247 
;t . with cider 248 
without cider ib. 
Ramakins 205 

Raspberry tart with cream 165 
brandy 249 
cakes 221 
cream two ways 

195 

jam 217 

another way 217 
Raspberry vinegar 226 

vinegar water for the 
sick 277 

water ice 201 
wine two waytof mak- 
ing 245 

- and currant tart 164 
RatajM 249 

cream 201 
drops 221 

ReCMPTS VAttlOUS 281 

Red a beautiful oae,to stain jel- 
lies, ices or cakes 202 
Red apples in jelly 215 
Red cabbage to stew 177 
to pickle 185 
Red herrings to dress 40 
Red mullet to dress 35 
Rennet to prepare It to turn the 
milk m making cheese 254 
Restorative a great one 271 
two others ib. 
another a most plea- 
sant draught ib. . 

pork-jelly 269 
Rice savoury 203 
Rice paste for sweets 161 
for relishing things ib. 
edging 136 
Carole of 203 
buttered 187 



Rice cake two ways 233 . 
and wheat bread 239 
caudle for the sick 272 

another ib. 
flummery 189 
and apple souffle of 187 
milk 203 

ground-rice milk 157 
pudding 148 

small 151 
plain ib. 
rich ib. 
with fruit 152 
Rice pudding baked 152 
ground 157 
Roasting meat observations on 

48 
Rsbart sauce for rumps of 

steaks 127 
Rock Fish to choose 25 

to boil 29 stew 34> 
Rolls excellent 240 
French ib. 
potatoe ib. 
Rot in sheep to prevent 286 
Rout drop-cake 239 
Rump of beef stewed S3 

another way 54 
roasted ib. 
ox rump soup 117 
mutton and kidney 90 
Rusks 237 

Rust to preserve irons from 
290 

to take it out of steel ib. 
S. 
Sack cream 192 

mead 249 
Sage cheese to make 256 
Saga to prepare for the sick 
274 

to prepare to give away to 
poor families 280 
milk 203—274 
pudding 146 
Salad] French 178 

lobster ib. 
Salmagundi 203 
Salmon to choose 25 

to boil 29 
D 



8*2 



W»» 



Salmon to broil 39 
. to pot 30 
to dry 30 

an excellent dish' of 
dried ib. to pickle ib. 
collared 31 
8A?eBs, &c. 124 to 136 

a very good sauce es- 

escialiy to bide the bad co- 
ur of fowls 124 

white sauce for fricas- 
see of fowls rabbits white 
meatf. fish or vegetables ib. 
sauce for wild fowl ib. 

another for the same Or 
for ducks ib, 

an excellent sauce for 
carp or boiled turkey 125 

sauce ,fbr fowl of any 
jprt ib. 

for cold fowl or par- 
triage ib. 

a very line mushroom 
sauce for fowls or rabbits ib. 

lemon white sauce for 
Doited fowls ib. 

liver«sauce 126 

egg-sauce ib* 

onion sauce ib. 

clear sfralot sauce ib. 

parsley sauce to {make 
when no parsley leaves can 
be had ib. 

green sauce for green 
geese or ducklings ib. 

bread-sauce ib. x 

Dutch , sauce for meat 
or fish ib. 

sauce Bobart for rumps 
or steaks 12r 

for hot or cold, roast beef 
ib. 

sauce for fish pies, 
where cream is not ordered 
two ways of making* ib. 

tomata sauce for hot or 
cold meats ib. 

apple sauce for goose 
and roast pork ib. 

tbe old* currant gSuce 
for venison 128 



Sauces, lemon-sauce 128 . 

carrier-sauce for mut- 
ton ib. 

ham-sauce ib. 

a very fine fish sauce tbf 

another ib. 
fish, sauce without but- 
ter 129, another ib. 
4 an excellent substitute 

," for caper-sauce ib. 

oyster-sauce lb. 
lobster sauce two 
ways 130 

shrimp sauce ib* 
anchovy-sauce ib. 
white sauce 121 
Sbme other sauces &c. are un- 
der the names of different 
dishes,, or of the principal 
articles the sauces are made 
of. 
Sautage* veal 69 
pork 76 
an excellent sausage to 
cat cold ib. 

mutton 90 
Spatlops of cold real or chick- 

en 68 
Scotch collops 69 

mutton broth 111 . 
Sea-cole 181 
Sea bass 25 

to boil 29 
Seed-cake a cheap one 232 

another ib. 
SfcRVAirxfl, niAEcnojrsi'QB 281 
Shad to choose 25 

to broil 34 
Shaht sauce clear 126 . 

* vinegar 130 ' 
Shank jelly for the sick 269 

Sheep*s4ieadfish to choose 25 

to boil 29 
Shoes a fine blacking for 291 
Short caket little ones how to 

make 230 
Shrewsbury cakes 233 
Shritrtpn to choose 2T 
to butter 41 



1MAX. 



4tf 



Shrimp* to pot 42 
sauce 130 
pie excellent 137 
Shrub white currant 251 
Hick persons, cookery for 

generaLremarks 

on the subject 267 
Sippets for the sick when the 

stomach will not receive 
. meat 271 
Stop-Jack 237 
Snipe* to dress 107 
Snow may be used instead of 

eggs in puddings or pancakes 

balls 187 
cream 194 
Soles to choose 25 
boiled 37 
fried ib. 

another way ib. 
stewed ib. 

stewed (like lamprey) 39 
in the Portuguese way 37 
Portuguese stuffing for 
soles baked ib. 
pie 137 
Sorrel to stew for fricandeau 

and roast meat 178 
Soufie of rice and apple 187 
Sounds cod's to look like small 

chickens 32 
Socrs, &c. 110 to 124 

general directions re* 
specting them 110 % 

colouring for 111 
an excellent soup 112 
an excellent white one ib. 
a plainer white One ib. 
a>la-sap 118 
portable ib. 
* soup maigre 119 

another ib. * 

a baked one to give away 
to poor, families 279 

for the weakly for the 
same purpose 280 
Other soups—are under the 
names of the principal arti- 
cles they are made of. 



Souse fir brawn and for pig's 

feet and ears 81 
Seusfer or Dutch pudding 147 
Sparerib of pork 75 
Spinach to boil 176 

soup 116 
Spruce beer to make 243 
Sponge cake 233 

another way without 
butter 234 
Squab pie Ul 
Sqitashes to boil 179 
Siains to take any kind out df 
* linen 284 

stains caused by acids,284 
another way for fruit- 
stains ib. 

another ib. - 
another way ib. 
stains of wine fruit Sec. 
after they have been long In 
the linen ib. 

many other stains ib. 
Steaks beef 56 

and oyster-sauce ib. 
Italian beef-steaks ib 4 v 
sauce for 127 
beef-steak pie 138 
pudding 153 

baked 153 
Steel to take rust out of 290 
Stock clear brown for gravy- 
soup or gravy 111 

for brown or white fish- 
soups 119 
Stone to extract oil from 290 
chimney-pieces to black- 
en the fronts of ib. 
Stoves to tacke the black off the 
bright bars of the polished 
ones in a few minutes ib. 
another way 291 
Strawberries to preserve them 
whole 213 

to preserve in wine ib* 
Streaked bass to choose 25 
Stucco excellent which will ad- 
here to wood-work £83 

mason's mashes for 284 
Stuffing for haddock &c. 36 
for soles baked 37 



*'*» 



3H 



unpax. 



* 



for sole, cod or turbot- 
pie 138 

forcemeat for 136 
Sturgeon to dress fresh 33 
to roast ib. 
an excellent imita- 
tion of pickled ib. 
Sucking pig to scald 77 
to roast ib. 
Suet to preserve it a twelve- 
month SOT podding 153 
veal suet pudding 154 
dumplings 158 
Sugar to clarify it for sweet- 
meats 208 

vinegar 131 
Suppers general remarks on 
293 

dish a pretty one 203 
Sweet dishes 187 to 208 
Sweetbreads 73 

roasted ib. 
ragout ib. 
Swckusats, &c. 208 to 226 
observations on 
221 

to clarify sugar 
for 208 

a very fine crust 
for them when to be parttcu* 
larly nice 162 

cover for sweet- 
meats 196 

excellent sweet- 
meats for tarts* when fruit is 
plentiful 219 
Sweets rich paste for 161 
Sweet patties 167 
Syllabub 202 

a very fine one ib. 
everlasting or solid ib. 
Syrup of cream 260 

T. 
Table-beer excellent to brew 

243 
Tansey 188 

Tapioca jelly for the sick 270 
Tartlets how to prepare b*r : 

berries for 208 
Tarts icing for them 164 
pippin 165 



Tarts prune 165 
orange ib. 
apple ib. 

raspberry with cream ib. 
Tea-cakes ^34^ 

another sort-a* bis- 
cuits ib. • . - - 
another sort ib, -• 
Teal to dress 107 
Tin-cover* to clean 291 > 
Toast anchovy two ways 206 
Toast and voter for tfa sick 

276 
Tomata sauce for hot or cold 

meats 127 
Tongues and udder to roasttiO 
to pickle for boiling 
two ways ib. 

stewed 61 
an excellent way-o 
doing them to eat cold ib. 

a pickle for them 
that will keep for years 84 
Transparent pudding 150 
Trifle an excellent one 1 90 
gooseberry or apple 191 
cake ib. 

a froth to set on trifle 
which looks and eats L weJi 
196 
Tripe 62 

soused ib. 
Trout to fry 35 
to choose 26 
to pot (like lobsters) 40 
a la-Gencvoise 35 
Tunbridge calces 235 
Turbot to choose 25 
to keep 29 
to boil ib. 

pie 138 . - 

Turkeys to choose 94 
to boil 96 

an excellent 
sauce for them boiled ±25 

to roast 97, pulled ik 
patties 167 * 

management . of: tur- 

- kci's in the poultry yard 264 

Turn'fp^oup 114 
pie 144 



i 



f 



isatx* 



315 



Turtles Uttle eggs for 135 
forcemeat for 135 
U. 
tW<* *nd tongue to roast 60 

V. 
ftfd*tochtwe44 
to keep 63 
legib. 
knuckle H>. 
shoulder 64 
fteck ib. 

a-la-braise ib. 
breast of ib. 
rolled breast 65 
another way ib. 
a la-daube ib. 
rolls of either cold meat 
or fresh ib 
harrico of 66 
a dunelm of cold ib. 
minced ib. 
potted ib. 

to pot veal whh ham 67 
cutlets Maintenon ib. 
another way ib. 
other ways ib. 
collops ib. 

to dress coilops quick ib. 
scallops of cold veal 68 
fricandeau ib. 
a cheaper but equally 
good fricandeau ib. 

fricandeau another wav 

ib. 

olives 69 
. cake ib. 
sausages ib. 
broth HI 
gravy 122 
pie 138 
Scotch collops 69 

Veal pie, a ™ cu onc 1 35 
and parsley pie ib. 

olive pie* ib. 

suet pudding 153 

patties 167 

broth very nourishing 268 

Veoetabi.es 173 to 181 

observations on 

dressing them 17-S 



Vegetables to bell them green 
in hard water ib. 

how xo preserve for 
the winter 181 

soup 115 
another 116 
pie 143 
Venison to choose 44 
to keep 49 
to dress ib. 
haunch, neck, &c. 50 
stewred shoulder ib. 
breast ib. * 
hashed ib. 

the old currant sauce for 
128 

pasty crust for 168 — 169 
to make a pasty of beef 
or mutton x to eat as well as 
venison 169 
Verder, pr milk punch 251 
Vinegar camp 131 

, gooseberry ib. 
raspberry 226 
raspberry vinegar wa~ 
ter277 

shalot 130, sugar 131 
cucumber ib. wine ib. 
and lemon-whey 277 
Ttngaret, for cold fowl &C. 130 

W 
Wafers Newark 235 
Walnuts io pickle 184 

another way 1 85 
ketchup of the finest 
sort 186 
Wash-balls to make 283 
Washes for stucco 284 
Water an excellent one to pre- 
vent the hair from falling off 
•and to thicken it 283 
Water-cakes 233 
Water-gruel 275 

.another way ib. 
souchey 89 
Welch pudding 157 

rabbit 306 
Whey 277 . 

white wine whey for the 
sick ib. 



316 



1*1>1X. 



Whey vinegar and lemon 277 
White to stain jellies, ices or 
cake* 203 

bog's puddings 82 
sauce 121 
Whitings to choose 26 

to dry (like haddock) 
36 
Wild frvl to roast 106 
sauce for 124 
another ib. 
Windsor Beans fricasseed 176 
Wine to refine 24S. 

roll 200 vinegar 131 
mulled 272 

another way 273 
to preserve strawberries 
in wine 213 
rich and pleasant 244 
raspberry wine 245 

or currant wine ib. 
Another way ib. 
black currant wine very 
fineib. 



ginger wine excellent, 246 
another way ib. 
maple wine 247 x 
elder wine 246 
white very much like 
Front in iac 247 
clary wine ib. 
raisin excellent ib. 
with cider 248 
without cider ib. 
Woodcocks to dress 107 
Woollen to preserve it from 
moths 285 

Y. 
Yeast to make 237 

another way 238 
to preserve 244 
dumplings 158 
Yellow to stain jellies, ices or 

cakes 202 
Yorkshire cake 241 

pudding 157 



25 



Go < )gie 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 



Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : / /books . qooqle . com/| 



NEW SYSTEM 



DOMESTIC COOKERY; 



FORMED UPON 



PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY, 



AH D AOAPTIO TO TBI 



USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES 



BY A LADY. 



{■.WA',(ji.v -U^J 



WITH THE ADDITION OF MANY NEW RECEIPTS. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR THOMAS ALLMAN, 42, HOLBORN HILL, 

AND SOLD BT ALL BOOK8BLLB&8, 



1840. 



613642 



W, J. Sean, 3, Ivy-lane, Newgate-itrMt, 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



As the following directions were intended for the 
conduct of the families of the Authoress's own daugh- 
ters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to 
unite a good figure with proper economy, she has 
avoided all excessive luxury, such as essence of ham, 
and that wasteful expenditure of large quantities of 
meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes to keep 
up the price, and is no less injurious to those 
who eat than to those whose penury obliges them 
lo abstain. Many receipts are given for things, 
which being in daily use, the mode of preparing 
them may he supposed too well known to require 
a place in a cookery-book; yet how rarely do we 
meet with fine melted butter, good toast and water, 
or well-made coffee ! She makes no apology for 
minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others 
unnoticed, because she does not write for professed 
cooks. This little work would have been a trea- 
sure to herself when she first set out in life, and she 
therefore hopes it may prove useful to others. In that 
expectation it is given to the Public; and as she will 
receive from it no emolument, so she trusts it will 
escape without censure. 



DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER. 



Plats Art of Cookery, to foot TitU. 

Plato 1 to face page xxii. 

2 xxiv. 

3 xxv. 

4 .... . xxvii. 
3 xxix. 

6 and 7 (with the printed leaf of ex- 
planation, pages *28 and *29, placed 
between them) to face each other, and 
stand between pages 28 and 29. 

8 to face page 81 

9 83 



CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTION. 



Page 

Miscellaneous observa- 
tions for tha use of a 

mistress of a family . . 1. 

The art of carving xxiii. 

PART I. 

FISH. 

To choose fish 1 to 3 

Observations on dressing 

■fish 4 

Turbot 5 

To keep turbot " 

To boil turbot 6 

Salmon , " 

To boil salmon " 

To broil salmon " 

To pot salmon •« 

To dry salmon 7 

An excellent dish of dried 

salmon " 

To pickle salmon, 7- An- 



other way. " 

Salmon collared 8 

Cod 

Observations on cod .... " 

Cod's head and shoulders " 

Crimp cod 9 

Cod sounds, boiled, 9 ; 

broiled, 9. Ragout, 9. " 

Currie of cod 10 

To dress salt cod " 

Sturgeon " 

To dress fresh sturgeon . . " 



To roast sturgeon, 10. An- 
other way 



P 

An excellent imitation of 

pickled stu-geon 

Thornback and skate .. 

Crimp skate 

Maids 

Boiled carp 

Stewed carp 

Baked carp 

Perch and tench 

To fry trout and grayling, 

(and perch and tench tho 

same way) .......... 

Trout a la Genevoise .... 

Different ways of dressing 

mackerel 

Pickled mack-Mel, called 

caveach 

Red mullet 

To dress pipers 

To bake pike 

Different ways of dressing 

haddocks 

To dry haddocks (and whi- 
tings the same way) . . 
Stuffing for pike, haddock, 

and small cod 

Soles 

To boil or fry solos' 

Stewed soles and carp. . . . 

Soles another way 

Soles in the Portuguese 

way 

Portuguese stuffing for 

soles baked 

An excellent way of itr-s- 

sin.a a largo ]>!.;ic<!. 

especially if there be a 

roc ...... 

To fry smelts 
Eels 



CONTENTS. 



Page 

Spitchcock eels 17 

Fried eels " 

Boiled ells " 

Eel-broth, very nourish- 
ing for the sick, how to 

make " 

Collared eel " 

To stew lamprey as at 
Worcester, (and eels, 
soles, and carp, in the 

same way) " 

Flounders 18 

To fry flounders " 

Water-souchy • " 

Hei rings and sprats " 

To smoke herrings " 

Fried Herrings " 

Broiled Herrings 9 

Potted heirincs " 

To dress red-herrings ... " 

Baked herrings or sprats " 

To broil sprats " 

Lobsters, prawns, and 

shrimps !' 

To pot lobsters, 19. Ano- 
ther way. as at Wood's 
hotel, (and mackerel, 
herrings, and trout, in 

the same manner) " 

Stewed lobster, a very high 

reish 24 

Buttered lobsters " 

To roast lobsters " 

Currie of lobsters or 

prawns " 

Prawns and cray-flsh in 

jelly, a beautiful dish . . 91 

To butter prawns or 

■ shrimps " 

To pot shrimps " 

Crabs " 

Hot crab " 

Dressed crab, cold " 

Oysters " 

To feed oysters " 

To stew oysters 23 



Pa«e 

Boiled oysters ......... 29 

To scallop oysters " 

Fried oysters, to garnish 
boiled fish " 

Oyster sauce, tee SAUCES. 

Oyster-loaves " 

Oyster-patties, tee Patties 

To pickle oysters, 22. An- 
other way 23 

PART II. 

HEATS. 

To choose meats 23 to 25 

Observations on purcha- 
sing, keeping, and dress- 
ing meat 25 tc 29 

To keep meat hot " 

Vrnittm. 

To keep venison " 

To dress venison " 

Haunch, neck, and shoul- 
der of venison 30 

To stew a shoulder of veni- 
son " 

Breast of venison " 

Hashed venison " 

Beef. 

To Veep beef 31 

To salt beef or pork for 

eating immediately ... . " 

To salt beef red ........ 32 

The Dutch way to salt 

beef " 

Beef a-la-mode '« 

A fiicandeau of beef .... 33 
To stew a rump of beef, 33. 

Another way 34 

To stew brisket of beef . . 33 

To press beef •• 

To make hunter's beef . , " 
An excellent modoof dress- 
ing beef 36 

To collar beef " 

Beef-steaks M 



CONTENTS. 



Reef-steals and oyster- 
sauce 37 

Staffordshire beef-stealcs " 

Italian beef-steaks . 11 

Beef-coll op " 

Beef-palates ........... " 

Beef-c&kes for a side dish 

oT dressed meat ...... 38 

To pot beef, 33. Another 



To dress the inside of m 
cold sirloin of beef ... . " 

Fricassee of cold roast 
beef 39 

To dress cold beef that has 
not been done enough, 
called Beef- olives, 39- 
, The same called San- 
ders, 39, The same cal- 
led Cecils 

To mince beef ........ 

To hash beef 

Beef a-la-ringrette .... 

Round of beef ......... 

Rolled beef that equals 
hare ............... 

To roast tongue and ud- 
der 

To pickle tongues for 
boiling, 41. Another 
way 

To stew tongue 

An excellent way of doing 
tongues to eat cold . . . 

Beef heart 

Stewed ox-cheek, plain . . 

To dress an ox-cheek ano- 
ther way 

Marrow-hones ......... . 

Tripe 

Soused tripe ............ 

Ox-feet, or cow heels .... 

Bubble and squeak ..... 

Veal 

To keep veal ...... 



Leg of veal . . . 
Knuckle of veal 
Shoulder of veal 
Neck of veal . , . 
Neck of real a-la-braise . 

Breast of real 

To roll a breast of veal, 

46. Another way .... 
To collar a breast of veal 

to eat cold 

Chump of veal a-la-daube 
Veal rolls of either cold 

meat or fresh 

H&rrico of veal 

A dunelm of cold veal or 

fowl 

Minced veal 

To pot veal 

To pot veal or chicken 



" with ham 

" Cutlets Msintenon ...... 

40 Cutlets mother way, 49. 
" Other ways......... 

" Veal Coilops 

To dress coilops quick, 49. 
" Another Way ........ 

Scallops of cold veal or 

41 chicken 

Fricandeau of veal, 50, A 

cheaper, but equally 
M good one, 50. Another 

42 way 

Veal-olives 

" Veal-cake 

" Veal-sausages 

" Scotch c (■ I . - 

To boil calfs bead 

43 To hash calf's head, 52. 

" Another *tay 

" Calf's head fricasseed . . . 
" To collar calf's head .... 

44 Mock turtle, 54. A 
" cheaper way, 54. Ano- 
ther 

Another meek turtle .... 
« Calf's liver, 55. Roasted 



COM ENTS. 



Page 

To dress the liver and 

lights 55 

Calf's Brains a la Maitre 

d* Hotel 56 

Sweetbreads, 56. Roasted " 

Sweetbread ragout •' 

Veal-kidney " 

Pork, #c. 
Observations on cutting 

up and dressing pork . " 
To roast a leg of pork . . 57 
To boil a leg of pork ... " 
Loin and neck of pork ... 58 
Shoulders and breasts of 

poik " 

Rolled neck of pork " 

Spring or forehand of pork " 

Sparerib " 

Pork-griskin *' 

Blade-bone of pork " 

To dress pork as lamb ... 59 

Pork-steaks " 

To pickle pork " 

Sausages " 

Ad excellent sausage, to 

eat cold 

Spadbury's Oxford sau- 
sages 60 

To scald a sucking pig . . " 
To roast a sucking pig , . " 

Pettitoes 61 

To make excellent meat 

of a hog's bead " 

To roast porker's head . . 62 
To prepare pig's check for 

boiling " 

To collar pig's head " 

To dry hog's cheeks CS 

To force hog's ears " 

Different ways of dressing 

pig's feet and ears .... " 
Pig's feet and ears fricas- 
seed " 

Jelly of pig's feet and ears 64 
harslet •« 



Page 

Mock-brawn 64 

Souse for brawn, and for 

pig's feet and ears .... " 
To make black pud' 
dings, 64. Two < ther 

ways 65 

White hog's puddings ... 66 

Hog's lard " 

To cure hams 66. Two 
other ways, 67. Ano- 
ther way that gives a 
high flavour, 67. A me- 
thod of giving a still 

higher flavour 67 

To make a pickle that will 
keep for years^ for 
ham«,»toiiguen, or beef, 
if boiled and skimmed 
between each parcel of 

them 68 

To dress bams N 

Excellent bacon 69 

The manner of curing 
Wiltshire bacon " 

Mutton. 
Observations on keeping 

and dressing mutton . . " 

Leg of mutton 70 

Neck of mutton " 

Shoulder of mutton roast- 
ed » 

To dress haunch of mut- 
ton 71 

To roast a saddle of mut- 
ton " 

Fillet of mutton braised . " 

Harrico < " 

To hash mutton 72 

To boil shoulder of mut- 
ton with oysters .... " 

Breast of mutton " 

Loin of mutton 73 

To roll loin of mutton ... " 

Mutton ham *' 

Mutton collops " 



ICrfTF.KTS. 



Page 

Mutton cutlets in the Por- 
tuguese way » • 7^ 

Mutton steaks " 

Steaks of mutton, orlamb, 

and cucumbers " 

Mutton steaks Mainte- 

non " 

Mutton sausages " 

To dress mutton rumps 

and kidney 75 

An excellent hotch-potch, 

75. Another " 

Mutton kebobbed " 

China chilo 76 

Lamb. 

Leg of lamb . " 

Fore-quarter of lamb .... " 

Breast of lamb and cucum- 
bers " 

Shoulder of lamb dreed, 
with sorrel sauce " 

Lamb steaks 77 

House-lamb steaks, white, 
77. Brown 

Lamb cutlets with spi- 
nach , " 

Lamb's head and hinge .'. " 

Limb's fry 78 

Lamb's sweetbreads .... " 

Fricasseed lambstones ... " 

Fricassee of lambstones 
and sweetbreads, ano- 
ther wav ............ " 

A verv nice dish of lamb . 79 



PART III. 

POULTRY, GAME, &C. 

To choose poultry.. 79 to 81 
Directions for dressing 
poultry and game .... " 

Poultry. 

To boil turkies " 

To roast turkies ....... 82 

Palled turkies 83 



Page 

To boil fowl, 82; w;th 

rice 83 

Fowls roasted *' 

Fowls broiled, 83. Ano- 
ther way " 

Davenport fowls " 

A nice way to dress a 

fowl for a small dish ... 84 

To force a fowl, &c .... " 

To braise a fowl, &c " 

Fricasseeof chickens .... " 

To pull chickens, 85. 

Another way 85 

Chicken currie, 85. Ano- 
ther, more easily made . 86 

To braise chickens ...... " 

Ducks roasted " 

To boil ducks 87 

To stew ducks " 

To hash ducks " 

To roast a goose " 

To stew giblets " 

Observations on dressing 

pigeons " 

To stew pigeons, 88. 

Another way 88 

To broil pigeons " 

To roast pigeons " 

To pickle pigeons " 

Pigeons in jtlly 89. The 

same, a beautiful dish . 89 

To pot pigeons 90 

Larks and other small 

birds " 

Game, tyc. 

To keep game, &c " 

To dress pheasants and 

partridges 91 

To pot partridge " 

A very cheap way of pot- 
ting birds " 

To clarify butter for pot- 
ted things 92 

To pot moor game " 

To dress grouse " 



CONTENTS. 



Page 

roatt wild fowl* 9» 

" dres* wild ducks, teal, 

» id dun-birds, &e. " 
Woodcocks, snipes, »nd 

i|iiaila ....... 93 

Ruffs and reeve* ....... " 

To dies* plover* " 

Plover i' egg* " 

To roait ortolan* " 

Guinea ami pea-few) .... " 
Observation* on dressing 

harm , '* 

To roast hare 94 

To jtig an old hare ...... " 

Broil til and hashed liara . 95 

To put bare " 

Different ways of dressing 

rabbit* " 

To make a rabbit taste 

much like hare " 

To pot rabbit* ■ 96 

To blanch rabbit, fowl, Ac. ■• 

PART IV. 

SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 
General direction* res- 
pecting soups & gravies " 

Scotch mutton-broth .... 97 

Veal-bro h *' 

Colouring for soups or gra- 
vies 98 

Julienne soup " 

A dear brown stock for 

gravy-soup or gtavy . " 

Ad excellent soup ...... " 

An excellent white soup, 

98. A plainer onn ... 99 

Giblet soup ........... " 

Partridge *oup 100 

Macaroni soup " 

A pepper-; iot, to be served 

in a tureen " 

Turnip soup " 

Old-peas soup 101 



Page 

Green-peas soup 101 

Gravy-soup 102 

Vegetable*oup,102. Ano- 
ther way , . 103 

Carrot soup *• 

Onion soup " 

Spinach noiip " 

Scotch leek-soup 104 

Hare soup " 

Ox-rump soup " 

Hes-ian soup ti>d r»g»ut . " 

S iup A-la-BPp .......... 104 

Portable soup , , " 

Soup maigre, 106. Ano- 
ther... 10« 

Slock for brown or white 

fish aoups " 

Eel soup 107 

Skate *oup " 

Excellent lobster soup,, " 

Craw-fish or prawn soup 108 

Oyster toup " 

Graviat, 

General directions res- 
pecting gravies ....... " 

To draw gravy that will 

keep a week ......... 109 

Clear gravy , " 

Cullis, or b own gravy .. " 

Bechamel, or white sauce 110 

A gravy without meat. ,. " 

A rich gravy M 

Grnvy for a fow 1 when 
there is no meat to make 

it of Ill 

Veal gravy " 

Gravy to make mutton Put 

like veniion " 

Strong fish gravy ...... " 

Savoury jelly, to put c\er 

cold pie* " 

PART V. 

HAUOKS, &C. 

A very good same, espe- 



CONTEXTS. 



Page 

dally to hide the bad 
colour of fowls ....... 119 

While sauce for fricassee 
of fowls, rabbits, while 
meat, fish, or vegetables ** 
Sauce for wild fowl ..... 113 

Another for the same, or 
for ducks ........... " 

An excellent sauce for 

Carp, or boiled turkey . . " 
Sauce for fowl of any tort " 
Sauce for c"Id fowl, or 

partridge " 

Sauce a la Maitre d' Hotel. 114 
A Very fine mushroom 
sauce far fowls, or rab- 
bits " 

Lemon white sauce, for 

bulled fowls , " 

Liver sauce " 

I ■ : .' aauce , " 

Onion since , , " 

Clear ihalot sauce 115 

To make parsley sauce 
when no parsley leaves 
•re to be had ........ " 

Green sauce, for green 
geese, or ducklings ... " 

Rr-'ad sauce — 

Dutch sauce, fur meat or 

fish " 

S.iuce Robart, for rump? 

or steaks , . *' 

Benton sauce, fur hot or 
cold roast beer ...... . 116 

Sauce for fish pies, where 
cream is not ordered, 

116. Another *• 

Tormta sauce, for hot or 
cold meats * 

Appl* sauce, fir (TOOK iflfl 
riail p. rk ..... ...... " 

The old currant v&ucn for 
venison ... , 1 17 

l>*mon savve .......... " 

"Srrier sauce for mutton 1 



Pipe 

Ham sauce 117 

A very fine fish-sauce ... " 
Fish sauce without b utter 116 
Fish sance a-la-Craiter .. " 
An excellent substitute fur 
caper sauce ......... " 

Oyster sauce 119 

Lobster sauce " 

Shrimp sauce " 

Anchovy sauce ........ . " 

To melt butteT; which is 
rarely well done, though 
an essential ar icle .... 120 

Viagaret, for cold fowl, *r 

meat " 

Shalot vinegar ......... . " 

Camp vinegar .......... " 

Sugar vinegar " 

Gooseberry virifgar ..... " 

Cucumber vinegar 12; 

Wine vinegar 

Nasturtions, for capers " 

To make mustard " 

Another way to make 
tnustard, for immediate 

use. 182 

Kitchen pepper ........ " 

To dry mushroums ..... 4 ' 

Mushroom powder ...... " 

To choose anchovies . . , . , ] 23 
Essence of anchovies .... '* 

To keep anchovies when, 
the liquor dries ...... " 

To make sprats ta.te like 
anchovies ............ " 

Force-meat . , '- 

Force-meat ingredients . . 124 
Force-meat, tr> force fowls 
or meat, 1 24 ; for cold 
savoury pies ......... 1 25 

Very fine force-meat balls, 
for fish-soups, or fi-.h 
stewed, on tnaigre-days " 
Force-meat, as for turtle, 

at the Bush, Bristul ... " 
Little eggi for turtle .... I'. 



CONTENT* 



Page 

Browning to colour and 

flavour made dishes ... 126 

Casserol, or rice edging 
for a currie or fricassee " 

PART VI. 

] PIES, PUDDINGS, AND 

PASTRY. 
Savoury Pies 
Observations on savoury 

pies " 

Eel pie J27 

Cot! pie 

Sole pie 128 

Shrimp pie, excellent .... • 

Lobster pie " 

A remarkably finu fish- 
pie " 

Pilchard and leek pie ... . 129 

Beef-steak pie " 

Veal pie, 12°- A rich one " 
Veal (or caisken) and 

parsley pie 130 

Veal-olive pie 41 

Calfs-hoad pie " 

Pork pies, to eat cold . . 31 

Mutton pie " 

Squab pie ]32 

L 'mb pie " 

Chicken pie (and rabbits 

the same way) " 

Green-goose pie 133 

Duck pie " 

Giblet pie " 

Pigeon pie 134 

Partridge pie in a dish ... " 

Hare pie, to eat cold .... " 

A French pie " 

Vegutable pio " 

Parsley pie 135 

Turnip pie " 

Putatoe pie " 

A herb pie " 

Raised crust for meat pies, 

or fowls, &c " 



Page 

Puddingt, cje. 
Observations on making 

puddings and pancakes 136 
Almond puddings, 1 37. 

Baked, 137. Small onex 137 

Sago pudding " 

Bread and butler pud- 
ding 138 

Orange pudding, three 

sorts " 

An excellent lemon pud- 
ding " 

A very fine amber pud- 
ding " 

Baked apple pudding .... 139 

Oatmeal pudding " 

Dutch pudding, or sous- 

ter " 

A Dutch rice pudding ... " 
Light or German puddings 

orpufls 140 

Little bread puddings ... " 

Puddings in haste " 

New college puddings ... " 
Boiled bread pudding, 
141. Another and 

richer 141 

Brown-bread pudding . .. 44 

Nelson puddings " 

Eve's pudding 1 42 

Quaking pudding " 

Duke oi Cumbe; land's 

pudding " 

Transparent pudding . . . . " 
Batter pudding, 142 With 

meat 143 

Rice small pudding " 

Plain rice pudding " 

A rich rice pudding " 

Rice pudding wi'h fruit . . 144 
Baked rice pudding, 144. 

Another, for the family " 

A George pudding " 

An excellent plain potatoe 

pudding 143 



Page 

Potato* padding with 

met* 1 15 

Steak or kidney pudding. . " 
Beef-steak pudding, 113. 

Baked *■ 

Mutton pudding, 145. An- 
other . . . 146 

Suet puddings " 

Veal-suet pudding ..... . " 

Hunter's pudding " 

Common plum-pudding . . 147 

Custard pudding " 

Macaroni pudding " 

Millet pudding " 

Carrot pudding " 

An excellent apricot pud- 
ding 148 

Baked gooseberry pud- 
ding , , " 

A green-bean pudding ... " 

Sh el ford padding " 

Brandy pudding " 

Buttermilk pudding . . ... 159 

Curd puddmgs or puffs " 

Boiled cnrd pudding .... " 

Pippin pudding " 

Yorkshire pudding 150 

A quick made pudding . " 
Rus>ian-*eed, or ground- 

rice, pudding " 

A Welch pudding " 

Oxford dumplings " 

Suet dumplings ..... .... 151 

Apple, currant, or dam- 
son dumplings or pud' 

dings " 

Yeast or Suffolk dump- 
lings 

A Charlotte „\ 

Common pan cakes ..... . 152 

Fine pancakes, fried srith- 

out butter or lard ..... " 

Pancakes of rica " 

Irish pancakes " 

New-England panc»k»s . . " 

Fritters 153 

Spanish fritters " 



Pag* 

Potntoe fritters 153. An- 
other way 153 

Backings " 

Rich puff paste 154 

A less rich paste , " 

Crustfor Venison pasty. , " 

Rich paste for sweats ... " 

Rich paste for relishing 

things 15/ 

Potatoe paste " 

Raised crusts for custards 

or fruits " 

Excellent short crusts, 
three ways of making 

them...., " 

A very fine crust for 
orange-cheese-cakes, or 
sweetmeats, when want- 
ed to be particularly 

sice , 15 

Observations on pastry .. " 

Remark on using preserv- 
ed fruit in pastry •• 

Apple pie, 157. not a, • 

pie pie 157 

Cherry pie .t " 

Mihce pie, 157, Withou 

nit-at " 

Lemon minee pies 158 

Egg mince pies 

Currant and raspberry pie ' 

or tart ............. " 

Light paste for tarts and 

cheesecakes 11 

Iceing for tarts " 

Pippin tarts 159 

Prune tart " 

Orange tart " 

O.ild in tart ■* 

Rhubarb tart 160 

Raspberry tart with cieam " 

Orange tart '• 

Fried patties " 

Oyster putties, 160. The 

same, or smn' I pie .... 161 



COXTEKTS. 



I. ••••.«• • pa •• 161 

Podovie*, Or beef pattits . . " 

Venl patties " 

Turkey putties " 

Sweet patties ........ ,. 169 

Patties t"M !i i. g tninoe- 

I >iei " 

Appl>« puff* *' 

Lemon puffs " 

Cheese puffs ■ , " 

Excellent light puffs .... 163 
To prepare venison for 

pasty " 

Venison pasty. ........ . " 

A panty of beef or mutton, 

to eit M well U venison ]64 

Potatoe pisly .......... " 

Cheap and excellent cus- 

larda 165 

11 idler custard* *' 

linked cualsrd ■' 

LMloa custard ........ " 

Almond custard ....... . 166 

Cheesecakes, 166. A plainer 

way, IC6, Another way 
Lvmon cheesecakes, 16G. 

Another way ........ 167 

Orange cheesecakes " 

I'diatou rhepn'cakes .... " 
Alninnd cheesecakes, three 

way* > " 

Dough nuts - 168 

Tipsy cuke ........... . 

R(ivh| pa-ite, called *• au 
Choux" 168 # 

pakt vn. 

vkcetadi.es. 
Observations on dressing 

vegetables .......... 169 

To bull vegetables green " 
How to boil vegetables 

green in hard water ... " 
Vegetable marrow, to boil 

or slew. " 

T<t keep green peas ..... 169* 
To keep green peas as pr«j 



Page 

tki-d in the emperor of 

Hmstn's kitchen 1C9* 

Boiled peas " 

To stow green peas " 

To stew oUi pfas ....... 1 70 

To dress artichokes " 

Artichoke-bottom* " 

Jerusalem artichokes .... " 
To slew cucumbers, 170. 

Another way ........ " 

To boil or slew vegetibla 

marrow ., " 

To st*w onions . , 17 1 

Ron-tt onions " 

To slew celery . " 
To bnil cauliflowers .... 

Cauliflower in white ssncn " 
To dress cauliflower and 

Parmesnn " 

To dress brocoli ...... .. 179 

Spinach " 

To dress beans ......... " 

Fricasseed Windsor litmus '• 

French beans . . , " 

To stew red cabbage, throe 

ways " 

Mushrooms , 17.. 

To stow mushroom* 

To stew aorrol for fricati- 

denn nil rnast m»al . , 'l 7 1 

French salsd , '■ 

Lobiter salad " 

To boil potatoes ........ " 

To broil potatoes ....... " 

To roast potatoes ....... 175 

To fry potatoes 

To mash potatoes " 

Carrots " 

To stew carrots •,..■•<> " 

Tn mssh parsnips " 

Fricassee of parsnips .... " 

To dress chardoons 176 

Beet-roots " 

Prying herba, as dressed 

in Staffordshire 

S»a-cale 177 

Laver , , " 



CONTKNTS. 



Page 

To preserve several vege- 
table* to eat in winter : 
French beans, 177. Car- 
rots, parsnips, and beet- 
rnots, t77« Store-onions, 
177- Parsley, 177. Arti- 
choke-bottoms, truffles, 
mm -Is. Ac 17S. Cab- 
bages 17S 

Pickle 

Rulel to be observed with 
pickles " 

Lemon pickle .......... " 

Indian pickle * 

English bamboo 180 

Melon mangoes " 

Pickled lemons 181 

Olives " 

Pickled onions " 

To pickle cucumbers and 
onions sliced ........ " 

To pickle young cucum- 
ber* 182 

To pickle walnut*, 18a. 
Another way " 

An excellent way to pickle 
mushrooms, to preserve 
the flavour . .... 183 

To pickle rod cabbage ... " 

Mushroom ketchup, 183. 

Another way 184 

Walnut ketchup of the 
£ne$t sdrt " 

Cockle ketchup " 

To keep capers 185 

PART vnr. 

SWEET J'ISHKS, pRESEEV E3, 
6WEKTHCATB. &C. 
Sweet Dialtet. 

Buttered rice 185 

Souffle <jf rice aorl aj'plf. . M 

Snowballs " 

Lent potatoes " 

A tansey 1S6 

Puitt d'amaur , . " 



Page 

A very uice dish or maca- 
roni dressed sweet .... 166 
Floating island, two ways " 
Flummery 186, Dutch, 

186, Rice 1S7 

Somersetshire firmity ... M 
Curds and cream, 188. 

Another way 188 

A curd star M 

Blanc-mange, or hla- 

mange " 

Jaunemange . , ]S3 

An excellent trifle 11 

Gooseberry *r apple trifle " 
ChantilJy cake, or cake 

trifle " 

Gooseberry foul 190 

Apple fool " 

Orange fool " 

A cream, 190. An excel- 
lent one " 

Burnt cream, two ways . . 191 

Sack cream " 

Brandy cream " 

Ratafia cream, two ways " 
Lemon cream, 192. Tel- 
low, without cream, 192. 

White 192. 

Imperial cream " 

Almond cream 193 

Stiow cream , , 1 1 

Coffee cream, much ad- 
mired " 

Chocolate rr*"»u " 

Codlin cream " 

Excellent orange cream , . ■* 
Raspberry cream, two 

ways |94 

Spinach cream " 

Pistachio cream ........ . " 

Clouted cream , , 195 

A froth to set on rream, 
custard, or trifle, which 
looks and eats weil .... ♦< 
A carmel cover for sweet- 
meats . , ■* 

Ca.fi feet jelly, two suit, 196 



CONTENTS. 



Pare 

Oranpre jelly 197 

Hartshorn jelly " 

Cranberry jelly " 

Cranberry and rice jelly. . " 

Apple jelly to serve at 

table, two ways 198 

To scald codlins " 

Stewed golden pippins ... " 

Black-caps, two ways of 

making " 

Stowed pears 199 

Baked pears " 

Orange butter " 

Wine roll '« 

To prepare fruit for child- 
ren ; a far more whole- 
some war than in pies 

or puddings 200 

To prepare ice for iceing " 

Ice waters " 

Currant or raspberry water 

ice 201 

Ice creams " 

Brown-bread ico " 

Ratafia cream " 

Colourings to stain jellies, 

ices, or cream* " 

London svllabub " 

Staffordshire syllabub ... 802 

A very fine Somersetshire 

syllabub " 

D evonshire junket " 

Everlasting, or solid, sylla- 
bubs " 

Lemon honeycomb u 

Rice and sago milks .... " 

A pretty supper dish .... 20S 

Savoury rice " 

Carrole of rice " 

Casserol, or rice edging . . " 

Salmagundy " 

Macaroni, as usually serv- 
ed, 204. Two other 

ways 204 

Oinlet " 



P»ge 

Butter, to serve as * little 

dish 205 

Ramakins " 

Fondu ** 

Potted cheese 206 

Roast cheese, to come up 

after dinner " 

Welch rabbit " 

Cheese toast " 

Anchovy toast, two ways " 

To poach eggs " 

Buttered eggs 207 

Scotch eggs " 

A pepper pot " 

The Staffordshire dish of 

frying herbs and liver . . " 

To preserve suet a twelve- 
month 208 

Sweetmeat/. 

To green fruits for preserv- 
ing or pickling " 

To clarify sugar for sweet- 
meats " 

To candy any sort of fruit 209 

To prepare barberries for 

tartlets " 

Barberries in bunches.. . . " 

A beautiful preserve of 

apricots " 

To preserve apricots in 

jelly 210 

To preserve green apri- 
cots " 

Apricots or peaches in 

brandy " 

To dry apricots in half . . . 211 

Apricot cheese " 

Orange marmalade " 

Lemon marmalade " 

Transparent marmalade . . " 

To butter oranges hot.. . . 212 

To fill preserved oranges ; 

a corner dish " 

Whole oranges carved. . , , " 



CONTENTS. 



Page 

Buttered orange juice, a 

cold dish 213 

Orange chips " 

Orange biscuits, or little 

cakes " 

Orange flower cakes 214 

To preserve oranges or 

lemons in jelly " 

To keep oranges or lemons 

for puddings, &c 215 

To preserve strawberries 

whole " 

To preserve strawberries 

in wine - 

To dry cherries with 

sugar « 

To dry cherries without 

sugar " 

To dry cherries the best 

way 216 

Cherries in brandy " 

Cherry jam " 

Currant jam, black, red or 

white . 4 - 

Currant jelly, red or 

black '. 217 

Apple marmalade " 

Apple jelly for preserving 
apricots, or for any sort 

of sweetmeats - 

Red apples in jelly •« 

Dried apples 218 

To preserve jarganel pears 

most beautifully " 

Gooseberry jam for tarts . . " 
White gooseberry jam ... " 

Gooseberry hops 219 

Raspberry jam « 

Another way 220 

To preserve greengages . . " 

Damson cheese " 

Muscle-plum cheese 221 

Biscuits of fruit " 

Quince marmalade " 

To preserve whole or half 
quinces " 



Pag* 

Excellent sweetmeats for 
tarts, when fruit is plen- 
tiful 222 

Magnum bonum plums ; 
excellent as a sweet- 
meat or in tarts, though 
very bad to eat raw ... " 

Lemon drops 223 

Barberry drops ■ ' 

Ginger drops ; a good sto- 
machic " 

Peppermint drops 224 

Ratafia drops " 

'Raspberry cakes " 

To preserve fruits for winter 

' use. 
Observations on sweet- 
meats 224 

To keep currants 225 

Cherries and damsons the 

same way 226 

To keep gooseberries two 

ways " 

Another way 217 

To keep damsons for win- 
ter pies ; two ways, 227. 

another way 22 9 

To preserve fruit for tarts 

or family desserts " 

To keep lemon-juice .... " 
China-orange juice, a very 
useful thing to mix with 
water, in fevers, when the 
fresh juice cannot be 

procured 229 

Different ways of dressing 

cranberries " 

Orgeat, two ways " 

Lemonade, to be made 
a day or two before 

wanted 230 

Another way . ... " 

Lemonade that has the 
appearance and flavour 
of jelly " 



CO STENTS. 



Page 

hatphtiry vinnpar 230 

PAtlT IX. 
CA.KKS, BREAD, &C. 
OMnrvations on mailing 

Mid baking cake* 23 1 

Veing for cakes 232 

To ice a very Urge cake , , " 
A common cake, 233. A 

very good one 933 

An excellent cake 

A very f.ne cuke " 

Rout drop cakes ....... . 234 

Flat cake* that will keep 

tong in the hnuse good " 

Little white rakes , * 

Little short cake* £35 

Plum c»Ve i two ways, 
235. Wry good com- 
mon ones, 236, Little 

one!t to keep long .... 236 

A good pound-cake " 

A cheap seed- cake " 

A nut!:., i 237 

Common-bread cake , , . . " 

Queen -cakea, two ways. .. *• 

Shrewsbury cakes 838 

Tnnbridge cakes ....... " 

Rice-cake, two sorts .... " 

Water cakes '! 

Sponge cakes, 239, An- 
other, without butter.. 239 

Tcb cakea " 

Benton tea cakes, 239. 
A not her sort, as biscuits, 

2s9. Another " 

A biscuit cake " 

Macaroons 240 

Wafers *' 

Crack-nuts " 

Cracknels " 

A good plain bun that 
may be eaten with or 
without toasting and 

butter " 

Riclifr buns 241 



Page 

Gingerbread, 241. Ano- 
ther »nrt, 441. A good 
plain sort, 241, A good 

sort without butter. . . . 24l 

Rusks 242 

To make yeast, two ways " 

To make bread 243 

American Onur " 
The Rev. Mr, Hagget'i 

economical bread 344 

Rico-and-wheat-bread ... " 

French bread 914 

How to discover whether 
bread has been adulte- 
rated with whitening or 

chalk 243 

To detect bones, jalap, 

nshes. Ac. in bread ■* 

Excellent rolls •< 

French rolls " 

Brentford rolls 246 

Potntoa rolls " 

Muffins " 

Yorkshire rake ........ . " 

Hard biscuits . . , , , " 

Plain and very crisp bis- 
cuits 2*7 

PART X. 

HOME-BREWERY, WtNEH, &C. 

To brew very fine Welch 

ale 247 

Strong beer, or ale 24$ 

Excellent tat.le-beer .... " 
To refine beer, nle, wine, 

or cyder 249 

Extract of malt for coughs " 

To preserve yeast 250 

Remarks on English wines '* 

A rich and pleasant wine " 

Raspberry wine , 151 

Rnspherry or currant 
wine, two ways of 

making " 

Black-currant wine, very 

fine * 



CONTENTS 



Page 

Excellent ginger wine, 
two ways of making . . 252 

Orange wine " 

Excellent cowslip wine . . 253 

Elder wine, 253. White, 
very much like Fronti- 
niac " 



Clary wine 254 

Excellent raisin wine .... " 
Raisin wine with cyder, 

254. Without cyder . . 255 

Sack mead " 

Cowslip mead " 

Imperial 256 

Ratafia " 

Raspberry brandy " 

An excellent method of 

making punch 257 

Verder, or milk punch . . . 258 

Norfolk punch, two ways " 

White-currant shrub .... " 



PART XI. 

DAIRY, AND POULTRY, 

Dairy. 

On the management of 
cows, &c 259 

Observations respecting 
cheese 260 

Two ways to prepare ren- 
net to turn the milk .. 262 

To make cheese " 

To preserve cheese sound 263 

To make sage cheese .... 264 

Cream cheese, three ways 
of making " 

Rush cream cheese, two 



ways 265 

Observations respecting 

butter " 

To make butter 266 



To preserve butter, 266 . 
The best way of pre- 
serving butter for winter 267 

To manage cream for 
whey-butter " 



Page 

To scald cream as in the 

West of England .... 267 

Buttermilk 268 

To keep milk and cream . " 

Syrup of cream " 

Gallino curds and whey, 

as in Italy " 

To choose butter at mar- 



ket 269 

Poultry- Yard. 

Management of fowls ... " 

To make hens lay 271 



To fatten fowls or chickens 
in four or five days ... " 

To choose eggs at market 
and preserve them .... 272 



Feathers •' 

Ducks 273 

Geese " 

Turkies 274 

Pea fowl *« 

Guinea hens 275 

Pigeons " 

Rabbits 276 



PART XII. 

COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND 
FOR THE POOR. 

Sick -cookery. 

General remarks " 

A clear broth that will 
keep long 277 

A quick made broth .... " 

A very supporting broth 
against any kind of 
weakness " 

A very nourishing veal- 
broth " 

Broth of beef, mutton, 
and veal " 

Calves' feet broth, two 
ways of making 278 

Chicken broth " 

Eel broth «« 

Tench broth •' 




iwrten a79 

Dr. HuieliiT't re b Cum live 

pork-jelly " 

Bk*ak jiUy " 

Arrow root jolly " 

Tapioca jelly , " 

Gloucester jidly , • 330 

Pnuuda, Huarjn in five mi- 
nutes, 280. Another 

SisO. Another ...... " 

Chicken pan udn ........ " 

Sippets, when thesloiimcti 

will nul ruueivu meat .. " 

Dilfereul ways of [>rep»i- 

ing Wgi 281 

Thine great restoratives 
261. Another, a umat 

pleasivot draught " 

Caudle, ihieu way* of 

i j i • . . - 282 

Cold eaudla , , . . " 

A flour c»udl« " 

Rico caudle, 282. A neither 

way of making " 

To mull wine, 283. An- 
other way . . , , 2S3 

To make eoifee ........ " 

Coffeo milk " 

Chocolat* 284 

Patent cocoa , " 

Salooj) , " 

Milk porridge. 284. French u 

Ground rice milk " 

Hugo, ISA. Sago milk . . 385 

Ames" nn Ik , " 

Artificial asses' milk .... " 

Two other ways of making " 

Water gruel, two ways of 

making " 

Barley gruel »86 

A very agreeable drink " 
A rrfrebliins drink in a 
fevefi 2S0. Another 
ft ink, 280. Another. 

Almost fioillt drink . . 887 



1NTS. 

Pa,» 

Soli and fine drnuijht for 
l' who arc weak ami 
have a cugb ........ " 

Toast arid witter ........ " 

Barley water, two ways 

of making «' 

Lemon water, a delightful 

drink " 

Apple water 288 

Hmpberry vinegar Water " 

Whey , 

While wine whey " 

Vinegar and lemon whey a 
Buttermilk, with hreuil nr 

without " 

Dr. Boerhaave'a sweet 

buttermilk " 

Orgeat 2»<J 

Orangeade, or tnMUH • " 
Egg-wiD» 

Cuukrry fur the Poor. 
General remarks and hint* 200 

A baked soup " 

An excellent »oup for the 

weakly 2'JS 

S.tuo " 

QjtldU for the hick and 

tho lying-in " 

PAHT XIII. 

VARlfWS FKCi:iPT9. AND It J- 
RECTIONS TO SI IIVAVT*. 

Various Bftriptt, 
To make soft pomatum, 

two ways "Hjl 

Hard pomatum 209 

Pomade divine ......... " 

Pol-pourt ■ »■ *' 

A quicker sort uf awectpot " 

To wake wssh halls 2M 

I'.ls tfr for chopped liarnl'., 
and which will pit-serve 
them smooth by con- 
stant use 3% 



CONTENTS. 



Pace 

Par chopped tips 296 

Hungary wa:er " 

Honey water " 

Lavender water . " 

As excellent pater to pre- 
vent hair from Tailing orT, 
■nd to thiclcen it ...... . " 

Black paper Tor driving 
patterns 297 

Black ink. two ways of 
making " 

To cement broken china. . " 

An excellent stucco, wl.ich 
will adhere to wood- 
work " 

Mason's washes for stucco, 
blue and yellow ...... 293 

tinman cement or mortar 
for outside plaistering, 
or brick-work ....... " 

To take stains, iron- 
moulds, and mildew, out 
of linen 299 

To make flannels keep 
their colour, and nnt 
shrink 300 

To preserve furs and wool- 
Ian from moths " 

To dye the linings of fur- 
niture, &c. 300. Buff, or 
salmon colour, accoiding 
to the depth of the hue; 
Pink, 300. Blue 

To dye gloves, to lo >k like 
York taa or Limerick, 
according to the deep- 
ness of the dye 301 

To dye white gloves* beau- 
tiful purp'e . . . . " 

A liquor to wash old 
deeds, Sc. on paper or 
parchment, when the 
writing U obliterated, 
or, when sunk, tu make 
it legible " 

To prevent the rDt in sheep ** 



Page 

To prevent green hay from 
firing • • ■ ■ 301 

To preserve ■ granary 
from insects and wea- 
sels JO! 

To destroy crickets.,.. . • l " 

Directiont to Servant*. 

To clean calico furniture 
when taken down for the 
summer *' 

To clean plate * 

To clean looking glasses ... " 

To preserve gilding, and 
clean it 303 

To clean paint, " 

To clean paper hangings " 

To give a gloss to fine oak 
wainscot 304 

To give a fine colour to 
mahogany 14 

To take ink out of maho- 
gany '* 

Floor cloths, 804. To clean 
them 305 

To dust carpets and floor* " 

To clean carpeti " 

To give to boards a beau- " 
til'ul appearance ..... . " 

To txtract oil from boards 
or stone . - 

To clean stone stairs and 
nails " 

To blacken the fmnts of 
stone chimney-pieces . . " 

To take stains out nf mar- 
ble, 306. Iron Stains " 

Two ways of presemn 

iron from rust 307 

To take rust out of steel... 11 

To clean the back of the 
grate ; the inner hearth ; 
and of cast iron stoves, 
theft-oats 307. Another 
way to clean cast-iron 
and b]n\ hearths .• » •• " 

« 



CONTENTS. 



Page 

To take the black off the 
bright bars of polished 
store* in a few minutes 307 

To clean tin covers, and 
patent pewter porter- 
pots 308 

To prevent the creaking of 
a door " 



Paee 

A strong paste for paper 308 
Fine blacking for shoes . , " 

Billi of Fare, Family Dinner*, 

Bills of fare 309 

Family dinners 312 



Index 



325. 



MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS 
too. ma usb of 
THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. 



In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who 
best acquit themselves of the duties which their station 
requires. Indeed this line of conduct ie not a matter of 
choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dig- 
nity of our character as rational beings. 

In the variety of female acquirements, though domes- 
tic emulations stand not bo high in esteem as they for- 
merly did, yet when neglected, they produce much human 
misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond 
their own family concerns ; but in the present day there are 
many who know nothing about them. Each of these ex* 
tremes should be avoided : but is there no way to unite 
in the female character, cultivation of talents and habits 
of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in 
every situation, whose example proves that this is possi- 
ble. Instances may be found of ladies in the higher 
walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts 
of their house-steward; and, by overlooking and wisely 
directing the expenditure of that part of their hnsband's 
income, which falls under their own inspection, avoid 
the inconveniences of embarrassed circumstances. How 
much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in 
those whose limited fortunes press on their attention con- 



1 



alteration* of the strictest economy I There ought to be 
a material diflercnre in the degree of care which a per- 
son of a large and independent estate bestows on money 
concerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances : 
yet both may very eommendably employ some portion 
of their time and thoughts on this subject. The custom 
pf tbe times tends in some measure to abolish the dis- 
tinctions of rank , and the education given to young peo- 
ple, is nearly the same in all : but though the leisure of 
the higher may be well devoted to elegant accomplish 
ments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less or- 
namental, would better secure their own happiness and 
that of others connected with them. We sometimes 
bring up children in a manner calculated rnther to fit 
them for the station we wish, than that which is likely 
they will actually possess ; and it is in all cases worth the 
while of parents to consider whether the expectation or 
hope of raising their offspring above their own situation 
be well-founded. 

The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, 
however, is not here alluded to; for a judicious im- 
provement of both, united to firm and early taught re- 
ligious principles, would enable the happy possessor of 
these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would 
young ladies find domestic knowledge a burthen, or in- 
consistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it 
were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is gt> 
pleasing, if employment be tiresome to ft healthy child, 
the fault must be traced to habits which, from many 
causes, are not at present favourable to the future con- 
duct of women. It frequently happens, that before im- 
pressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental 



( i" ) 



education commences ; and it ever after takes the lead : 
thus, what should be only the embellishment, becomes 
the main business, of life. There is no opportunity of 
attaining a knowledge of family management at school ; 
and during vacation, all subjects that might interfere 
with amusement are avoided. 

When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks 
of life, returns to reside at her father's house after com- 
pleting her education, her introduction to the gay world, 
and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at 
once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable 
circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) 
to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that 
means she might in various ways augment the satisfaction 
and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, per- 
sons of an inferior bphere, and especially in the lower 
order of middling life, are almost always anxious to 
give their children such advantages oF education as them- 
selves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be 
productive of the happiness so kindly aimed at, must be 
judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if 
what has been taught has not produced humility in her- 
self, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of 
her being. Were a young woman brought to relish 
home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occu- 
pation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of 
pleasure, presented by the theatre and other dissipations, 
it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in 
favour of the former, especially if restraint did not give to 
the latter additional relish. 

If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall 
find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered 



( ) 

pleasures. To attend to the nurBing, and at least early ir> 
slruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the 
ways of piety and usefulness : to preside over the family 
and regulate the income allotted to its maintainance : to 
make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued by in- 
fer course with a jarring world : to be his enlightened com- 
panion and the chosen friend of his heart : these, these, 
are woman's duties ! and delightful ones they are, if 
haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly es- 
timate her worth, and who will bring his share to the 
common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may 
truly say, " Happy the man who can call her his wife. 
Blessed are the children who call her mother." 

When we thus observe her, exercising her activity 
and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing ex- 
cellence, are we not ready to say, she is the agent for 
good of that benevolent Being, who placed her on earth 
to fulfil Huch sacred obligations, not to waste the talents 
committed to her charge. 

When it is thus evident that the high intellectual at» 
taimnents may find exercise in the multifarious 'occupa- 
tions of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the :m >- 
treBs of the house, can any one urge that the female mind 
is contracted by domestic employ } It is however a great 
comfort that the duties of life are within the- reach of 
humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim is to fulfil 
them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United 
with, and perhaps crowning all the virtues of the female 
character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, which 
occasionally bends its attention to the smaller objects of 
life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than 
the greater. 



( v ) 

Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable 
branch of a lady's concern, as it involves judgment in 
expenditure; respectability of appearance; and the com- 
fort of her husband and those who partake their hospi- 
tality. 

The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is 
not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dress- 
ing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which 
gives respectability to her who presides. Too much, 01 
too little dinners are extremes not uncommon : the latter 
is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or pe- 
nuriousness to be genteel ; and the former, if constantly 
given, may endanger the circumstances of those who are 
not affluent. 

Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous 
than formerly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied 
for what one now costs ; consequently those whose for- 
tunes are not great, and who wish to make a genteel ap- 
pearance, without extravagance, regulate their table ac- 
cordingly. 

Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respecta- 
bility of a man is more immediately felt, than the style 
of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a 
visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the 
meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the enter- 
tainments of the higher classes, but if two or three dishes 
are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen 
clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is 
necessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband 
and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of 
domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. 
The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In 



alt situations of life, the entertainment should be no less 
suited to the station, than to the fortune of the entertainer 
and to the number and rank of those invited. 

The manner of earring is not only a very necessary 
brunch of information, to enable a lady tu do the honours 
of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the 
consumption of a family : and though in large parlies, 
she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge ap- 
parently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel 
the deficiency j and should not fail to acquaint herself 
with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident 
every day. 

Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than pro- 
bable, that before the end of this century, great atten- 
tion to guests may be again the mode, as it was in the 
commencement of the last. Some people haggle meat 
so much, as not to be able to help halfu-dozen persons 
decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef ; and 
the dish goes away with the appearance of having been 
gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family were to 
take the head of the table under the direction of their 
mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the 
same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic 
affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. 
Habit alone can make good carvers ; but some principal 
directions are hereafter given, with a reference to the an- 
nexed plates. 

The mistress of a family should always remember that 
the welfare and good management of the house depend on 
the eye of the superior ; and consequently that no- 
thing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waBte may 
be avoided and this attention is of more importance 



( «i ) 



now that the price of every necessary of life is increased 
to an enormous degree. 

If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to 
think of family management, let her not upon that ao- 
count fear that she cannot attain it: she may consult 
others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself 
with the necessary quantities of the several articles of 
family expenditure, in proportion to the number it con- 
sists of, the proper prices to pay, &c, &c- 

A minute account of the annual income, and the times 
of payment should be taken in writing ; likewise an es- 
timate of the supposed amount of each article of expence; 
and those who are early accustomed to calculations on 
domestic articles, will acquire so accurate a knowledge 
of what their establishment requires, as will give them 
the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, 
without acquiring the character of meanness. 

Perhaps few branches of female education are so use- 
ful, as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be 
regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be 
entered; and if balanced every week and month, &c 
the income and outgoings will be ascertained with faci- 
lity, and their proportions to each other be duly ob- 
served. Some people fix on stated sums to be appro- 
priated to each different article, and keep the money in 
separate purses ; as house, clothes, pocket, education 
of children, &c. Whichever way accounts be entered, 
a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered 
to. Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state 
of their husband's income} and others are only made 
acquainted with it, when some speculative project, or 
profitable transaction, leads them to make a false esti- 



(viii) 

mate of what can be afforded ; and it too often happens 
that both parties, far from consulting each other, squan- 
der money in ways that they would even wish to forget : 
whereas marriage should be a state of mutual and perfect 
confidence, and similarity of pursuits, which would se- 
cure that happiness it was intended to bestow. 

There are so many valuable women who excel as 
wives, that it i3 a fair inference there would be few ex- 
travagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands 
on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both par- 
ties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages 
many families have been reduced to poverty by the want 
of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs; and 
though on these occasions the women were blamed, it 
has afterwards appeared, that they never were allowed a 
voice of enquiry, or suffered to reason upon what some- 
times appeared to them imprudent. 

Many families have owed their prosperity full as much 
to the propriety of female management, as to the know- 
ledge and activity of the father. 

The lady of a general officer observed to her man- 
cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. 
Some excuse was offered ; — to which she replied : — 
" Such is the sum I have allotted to house-keeping 
should it be exceeded one week, the next must repay it. 
The general will have no public day this week." The 
fault was never repeated. 

March's " Family Book-keeper," is a very useful 
work, and saves much trouble; the various articles of 
expense being printed, with a column for every day in 
the year, so that atone view the amount of expenditure on 
each, and the total sum, may be known. 



( ix ) 



Ready-money should be paid for all such things as 
come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check 
is necessary. The best places for purchasing should be 
attended to. In some articles a discount of five per 
cent, is allowed for ready money in London and other 
large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best 
served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to 
new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of esta- 
blished credit who do not dispose of goods by under- 
selling. 

To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them 
greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid, and in 
long bills, articles never bought are often charged. 
Perhaps the irregularity and failure of payment, may have 
much evil influence on the price of various articles, and 
may contribute to the destruction of many families from 
the highest to the lowest. 

Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money 
affairs will be known with ease ; for it is delay of pay- 
ment that occasions confusion. A common-place book 
should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints 
of useful knowledge, and other observations as are given 
by sensible experienced people. Want of attention to 
what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be 
worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance 
prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not 
backward in frivolous ones. 

It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the 
prices and goodness of all articles in common use, and 
of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. 
She should also be acquainted with the comparative prices 
of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute 



< * ) 



those that are most reasonable, when they will answer 
as well for others of the same kind, but which are more 
costly. A false notion of economy leads many to pur* 
chase as bargains what is not wanted, and sometimes 
never is used. Were this error avoided, more money 
would remain for other purposes. It i9 not unusual 
among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of goods, 
by assurances that they are advancing in price ; and 
many who supply fancy articles are so successful in per- 
suasion, that purchasers not unfrequenlly go far beyond 
their original intention, even to their own future disquiet 
Some things are better for keeping, and, being In con 
sum consumption, should be laid in accordingly ; such 
as paper, soap, and candles. Of these more hereafter. 

To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted ; for 
people ought to form their conduct on their circum- 
stances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement 
according to them, will be found equatly advantageous 
to all. The minutice of management must be regulated 
by every one's fortune and rank j some ladies, not defi- 
cient in either, charge themselves with giving out, once 
in a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities 
of household articles, as by observation and calculation 
they know to be sufficient, reserving fur their own key 
the large stock of things usually laid in for very large 
families in the country. Should there be several more 
visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase 
of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judg- 
ment will be respectable even in the eye of domestics, 
if they are not interested in the ignorance of their em- 
ployers; and if they are, their service! will not compensate 
for w ant of honesty. 



( ** ) 

When young ladies marry, they frequently continue 
their own maids in the capacity of house-keepers; who, 
Bfl they may he more attached to their interest than 
strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the 
economical observations in this work will be as usefhl a* 
the cookery ; and it ia recommendable in them to be 
strictly observant of both, which in the course of a year 
ut two, will make them familiar in the practice. 

It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of 
the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, 
the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be 
called to a strict account. 

Some part of every person's fortune should be devoted 
to charity ; by which "a pious woman will build up 
her house before God, while she that is foolish (i. a. 
lends nothing to the Lord,) pulls it down with hei 
hands." No one can complain of the want of gifts to 
the poor in this land : — but there is a mode of relief 
which would add greatly to their comfort, and which 
being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as 
axe often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. 
In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing 
the above are given. 

By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is 
more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be 
given soon in the morning, there will be more time to 
execute them; and servants, by doing their work with 
ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be neces- 
sary. 

It is worthy of notice that the general expense will 
be reduced, and aiuch time saved, if every tiling be 



( ) 

kept in its proper place, applied to ita proper use, and 
mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, bb 
suoii as broken. 

If the economy of time was duly considered, the use 
ful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, 
and n regular plan of employment was daily laid down, 
a great deal might he done without hurry or fatigue ; and 
it would he a most pleasant retrospect at the end of 
the year, were it possible to enumerate all tne valuable 
acquirements made, and the good actions performed by 
an active woman. 

If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in I 
book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who 
do not recollect that the regularity and good manage- 
ment of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded 
by those who are to execute orders. It behoveB every 
person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his 
service; to be very minute in investigating the charac- 
ter he receives, and equally cautions and scrupulously 
just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, 
many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mis- 
chief by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be 
fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a 
milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will 
be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who 
knowing, or having well-founded suspicions of such faults, 
is prevailed upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide him 
into another place. There are however some who are 
unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a cha- 
racter because they are displeased that a servant leaves 
their service: but this is unpardonable, and an absolute 



( siii ) 



robbery, servants having no inheritance, and depending 
on their fair name for employment. To refuse counte- 
nance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, arc 
actions due to society at large ; and such as are honest, 
frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally 
rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire 
Bervants with zeal to acquit themselves. 

It may be proper to observe that a retributive justice 
usually marks persona in that station sooner or later even 
in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude, 
are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on which 
their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their 
faults, and the attendant punishment come home when 
they have children of their own ; and sometimes mueh 
sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedness 
perpetuaLed in their offspring, whom they must not expect 
to be better than the example and instruction given by 
themselves. 

It was the observation of a sensible and experienced 
woman, that she could alwayB read the fate of her ser- 
vants who married : those who had been faithful and in- 
dustrious in her service, continued their tjood habits in 
their own families, and became respectable members of 
he community : those who were the contrary, never 
were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the 
parish. 

A proper quantity of household articles should be 
always ready, and more bought in before the others be 
consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the 
country 

A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even 
if the money be pv.d at the time of purchase; and, to 



avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when 
brought home. 

Though it is very disngreeable to suspect any one's 
honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional ; 
yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugars, &c. when bronght 
in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should 
be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook 
to tile these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill 
sh.tll be delivered. 

Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is 
company, if servants are required to prepare the table and 
sideboard in similar order daily. 

All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness t 
sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, 
picked, and perfectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in 
very small bottles closely corked -, not more than will be 
used in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. 
Much less ia necessary than when boiled whole in 
gravies, &c 

Where noonings or suppers are served, (and in every 
house some preparation is necessary for accidental vi- 
sitors) care should be taken to have such things in readi- 
ness as are proper for cither, a list uf several will be sul>- 
joined, a change of which may be agreeable, and if duly 
managed will be attended with little expence and much 
jonvenience. 

A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf 
of bread, which when returned will shew the number ro 
be paid for ; as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept 
by each party. 

Those who are served with brewer's beer, or any other 
articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep 



a book for entering the dates ; which will not only serve 
to prevent overcharges, but will shew the whole year's 
consumption at one view. 

An inventory of furniture, linen, and China should 
be kept, and the things examined by it twice a year, at 
oftener, if there be a change of servants ; into each of 
whose care the articles used by him or her, should be 
entrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of 
parchment with the family name, numbered, and speci- 
fying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each 
feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket Knives, forks, 
and house-cloths, are often deficient: these accidents 
might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list 
required the former should be produced whole or broken, 
and the marked part of the linen, though all the others 
should be worn out The inducement to care of glass is 
in some measure removed, by the increased price given 
for old flint glass. — Those who wish for trifle dishes, but» 
ter-stands, &c. at a lower charge than cut glass, may 
buy them made in moulds, of which there is great va- 
riety that look extremely well, if not placed near the 
more beautiful articles. 

The price of starch depends upon that of flour* the 
best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years ; 
therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to ad- 
vantage, and covered close. 

Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all 
families, the purchase demands particular attention. The 
cheapest does not go so far as that more refined , and 
there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The 
white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shin- 
ing. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly bok, 



( xvi ) 



and it ia often to be bought pure as imported. East In* 
dia sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, con- 
sequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well 
for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare 
while sugar, pounded, rolling it with ;i bottle, and sifting, 
wastes less than a mortar. 

Candles made in cool weather are best ; and when their 
price, and that of soap, which rise and f.dl together, is 
likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stock 
of both. This information the chandler can always give ; 
they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will 
not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool ; 
and there are few articles that better deserve care in buy- 
ing, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the .sine 
of the family. 

Paper, by keeping, improves in quality ; and if bought 
by half or whole reams from large dealers, will be much 
cheaper than purchased by the quire. The surprising in- 
crease of the price of this article may be accounted for 
by the additional duties, and a larger consumption, be- 
side* the monop ily of rags ; o( the hitter it is s,iid there 
is some scarcity, which might be obviated if an order 
were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to 
receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. 

Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best 
means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would 
maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of 
the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many 
families, from a want of method, have the appearance of 
chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the 
following hints may be useful as well as eoonomioal: — 




Every article should lie kept in that place best suited 
to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz. 

Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be 
excluded. — Meat in a cold dry place. — Sugar and sweet- 
meats require a dry place ; so does salt — Candles cold, 
but not damp. — Dried meats, hams, &e. the same. — All 
sorts of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, &c. Bhould be 
dose covered to preserve from insects ; bat that will not 
prevent it, iflong kept. 

Bread is now so heavy an article of expense that all 
waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the 
room will tend much to prevent it. Since the scarcity in 
1795 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It 
should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and co- 
vers keep it best. 

Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent 
a musty taste. 

Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. 

Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, 
to be used when herbs are ordered; but with discretion, 
as they are very pungent. 

The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to 
fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ; 
nid they should be shaken occasionally. When soiled, 
they should be washed, not scoured. 

Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal or 
soup. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some 
M which pour into the tubs and boiler ; and when the la- 
thet becomes weak, add more. The new improvement 
on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving o( near half ir. 
qaantity; and though something dearer than the hard, 
reduces the price of washing considerably. 



shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called 
the sportsman's pieces. When every one is helped, cat 
off the head, put your knife between the upper and lower 
jaw, and divide them, which will enable you lo lay the 
upper fiat on your plate ; then put the point of the knife 
into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and 
brains may be helped then to those who like them. 

Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; 
cutting the back into two pieces, which with the legs are 
the prime. 

A Fowl.— A boiled fowl's legs are bent inwards, and 
tucked into the belly; but before it is served, the skewers 
are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate ; and 
place the joints, as cut off, on the di*h. Take the wing 
off in the direction of a to />, in the annexed engraving t 
only dividing the joint with your knife ; and then 
with your Turk lift up the pinion, and draw the wing to- 
wards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more 
complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the 
leg and body, and cut to the bone j then with the fork 
turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if the bird 
is not old. When the four quarters are thus removed, 
takeoff the merrythought from a, and the neck-bones; 
these last by putting in the knife at c, and pressing it 
under the long broad part of the bone in the line c, 6. 
then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks 
to the breaBt The next thing is, to divide the breast 
from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close 
to the breast right down to the tail. Then lay the back 
upwards, put your knife into the bone half-way from the 
neck to the rump, and on raising the lower end it will 
separate readily. Tarn the rump from you, and very 



( xix ) 



&c. in them, or my metal utensil ; atone and earthen 
vessels should be provided for those purposes, as likewise 
plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used 
*o put by cold meat. 

Tin vessels, if kept damp soon rust, which causes 
noles. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, &c should 
be painted every year or two. 

Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed 
red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some 
years ago, the death, of several gentlemen was occasioned 
at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table, which 
she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel 
badly tinned. 

Vinegar, by its acidity does the same, the glazing being 
of lead or arsenic. 

To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold 
water, and wrap it round die bottle two or three times, 
then place it in the sun j renew the process once or 
twice. 

The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is 
in a stone jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the 
vessel into a sauce-pan of water, called a water-bath. 

If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c. be suffered to 
boil over, the strength is lost. 

The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals 
and cinders ; for the later there is a new contrivance to 
sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means 
of a covered tin bucket. 

Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire fur the back, 
but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly 
wet, give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal 
for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens. 



C « ) 

Tlie cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, 
tapes for the collared things, &c. which if not perfectly 
scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour whet) 
next used. 

Cold water thrown on cnst iron, when hot, will cause it 
to crack. 

In the following and indeed all other receipts, though 
the quantities may he as accurately directed as possible, 
yet much must he left to the discretion of the person 
who useH them. The different tastes of people require 
more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butler, 
&e, which can never be ordered by general rules ; and 
if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of 
her employers, not all the ingredients which nature ami 
art can furnish, will give exquisite flavour to her dishea. 
The proper articles should be at hand, and she must pro- 
portion them until the true stmt be obtained, and a vnriety 
of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the 
same time. 

Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance 
in this little work j and where they are not strictly so, 
by suet or bacon being directed in stuffings, the cook 
must use butler instead ; and where meat gravicB, (or 
xtock as they are culled) are ordered, those made of fish 
must be adopted. 




DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 

The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a 
middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required 
than address, in the manner of using it : and to facilitate 



( *xt ) 



this, the cook shall give orders to the butcher to divide 
the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mutton, 
lamb, and Teal, (such as neck, breast, and loin ;) which 
may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the 
adjoining bones. If lhe whole of the meat belonging to 
each bone should be too thick, a small slice may be taken 
off between every two bones. 

The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle 
of mutton, and beef) are to be helped in thin slices, 
neatly cut and smooth ; observing to let the knife pass 
down to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. 

The dish should not be too far off the carver ; as it gives 
an awkwark appearance, and makes the task more diffi- 
cult. Attention is to be paid to help every one to a part 
of such articles as are considered the best. 

Id helping fish, take care not to break the Makes; 
which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and con- 
tribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish- 
knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this account. 
Help a part nf the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. 
The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, 
Bounds of cod and tins of turbot, are likewise esteemed 
niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. 

In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, 
for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion 
to pinion, without making wings, there will be more 
prime pieces. 

A Cod's Head. — Fish in general requires very little 
carving, the lleshy parts being those principally esteemed. 
A cod's head and shoulders, when in season, and pro- 
perly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When 
cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the pari* 



( xxii ) 



about the back-bone on the shoulders are the most firm 
and the beat. Take off a piece quite down to ttie bone, 
in the direction a, b, c, d, putting in the spoon at «, c, 
and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, 
which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the 
meat of which is thin, and a little darker-coloured than 
the body of the fish itself: this may be got by passing a 
knife or spoon underneath, in the direction d,f. About 
the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the 
jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw, bones, and 
the firm parts within the head. Some are fond of the 
palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may be 
got by putting a spoon into the mouth. 

Edge-bone of Beef.—CuX off a slice an inch thick ail 
the length from a to o, in the figure opposite the last 
page, and then help. The soft fat which resembles mar- 
row, lies at the back of the bone, below c ; the firm fat 
must he cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. 
It is proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. 
The skewer that keeps the meat properly together when 
boiling is here shown at a. This should be drawn out 
before it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to leave the 
skewer in, put a silver one. 

Sirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, or by 
cutting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether the 
outside or the inside is preferred. For the oulbide, the 
slice should be cut down to the bones ; and the same with 
every following helping. Slice the inside, likewise, and 
give with each piece some of the soft fat. 

The inside done as follows eats excellently : Have 
ready some Bhalot-vinegar boiling hot : mince the meat 
large, and a good deal of the fat ; sprinkle it with salt, and 



9. 



( xxiil ) 

pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it Help with 
a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. 

Bound or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way aa 
fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even 
all over- When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, 
but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the 
beef before you begin to help, as directed above for the 
Edge-bone. 

Fillet of Veal. — In an ox this part is round of beef. 
Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help 
the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied 
close, before dressing ; which makes the fillet very solid. 
It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put 
into the flap, which completely covers it; you must cut 
deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat 
From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, 
it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of 
the carver. 

Breast of Veal. — One part (which is called the brisket) 
is thickset, and has gristles; put your knife about four 
inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which 
will separate the ribs from the brisket Ask which is 
chosen, and help accordingly. 

Coifs Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if pro- 
perly managed. Cut slices from a to b, in the figure 
opposite page 22, letting the knife go close to the bone. 
In tile fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat 
sweetbread, which you should help a slice of from c in d 
with the other part Many like the eve | which you 
must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in 
two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found 
some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is 



( vxiv ) 



ied l nicety; the lady of the house should be ;ic 
rjuuinted with nil tilings that are thought bo, thai she may 
distribute them among her guests. 

Shnuider of Mutton. — This is a very good joint, and 
by many preferred to the leg j it being very full of gravy, 
if properly roasted, and produces many uiee bits. The 
figure represents it as bud in the dish with its back upper- 
most. When it is first cut, it nhould be in the hollow 
part of it, in the direction of a, b, and the knife should 
be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat 
lies on the outer edge, and it is to be cut out in thin slices 
in the direction e. If many are at rable, and the hollow 
put cut in the line a, b, is eaten, some very good and 
delicate slices may be cut out on each side the ridge of 
the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between 
these two doited lines, is that in the direction of which 
the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut 
across. 

Leg of Mutton. — A leg of wether mutton (which is the 
best llavoured) may bo known by a round lump of fit at 
the edge of the broadest part, as at a. The best part is 
in the midway, at b, between the knuckle and further 
end. Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices 
to c- If the outside is not fat enough, help some from 
the side of the broad end in slices from e to jfS This part 
ib most juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, which in 
fine mutton will be very tender though dry. There arc 
very fine slices on the back of the leg i rum it up, and 
cut the broad end ; not in the direction you did the other 
side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold 
of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the 



I 

I 
I 




thigh-bone at d\ then pass the knife under the crump-bone 
in the direction, d, g, 

A fore Quarter of Lamb. — Separate the shoulder from 
the scoven (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the 
knife under in the direction of a, b, c, d, in the figure 
opposite the last page ; keeping it towards you horizon- 
tally, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. 
If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into 
another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange 
(or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt 
and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the 
ribs in the line e, c : and help either from that, or from 
the ribs, ns may be chosen. 

Haunch of Venison. — Cut down to the bone in the line 
a, b, c, in the figure opposite the next page, to let out 
the gravy : then turn the broad end of the haunch to- 
ward you, put in the knife at b, and cut as deep as you 
can to the end of the haunch d ; then help in thin slices, 
observing to give some fat to each person. There is more 
fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of c and d 
than on the other ; and those who help must take care to 
proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according to the num- 
ber of the company. 

Haunch of Mat inn. is the leg and part of the loin, cut 
so as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helpen 
kt table in the same manner. 

Saddle of Mutton. — Cut long thin slices from the tail 
to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large 
joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the 
sideB. 

Ham may be cut three ways ; the common method is, 
to begin in the middle, by long slices from a tr 6, from 



( xxvi ) 



the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the 
prime at first ; which is likewise accomplished by cutting 
a small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and 
with a sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive 
thin circles ; this preserves the gravy and keeps the meat 
moist. 

The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock 
end (which many are most fond of), and proceed on- 
wards. 

Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the 
under side, first taking off a thick slice. 

Sucking Pig. — The cook usually divides the body be- 
fore it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the 
jaws and ears. 

The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the car- 
case on one side, and then the leg according to the direc- 
tion given by the dotted line a, b, c. The ribs are then 
to be divided into about two helpings ; and an ear or jaw 
presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints 
may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be 
cut from them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part ; 
but some people prefer the neck end, between the 
shoulders. 

Goose.-— Cut off the apron in the circular line a, b, c t 
in the figure opposite the last page ; and pour into the 
body a glass of port wine ; and a large tea-spoonful of 
mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck 
end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breas* 
in long slices from one wing to another ; but only remove 
them as you help each person, unless the company is so 
large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more 
prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg, by 



( xxvii ) 

putting the Fork into the small end of the bone, pressing 
it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the 
leg lack, and if a young bird it will easily separate. To 
take off the wing, put your fork into the smalt end of the 
pinion, and press it close to the body ; then put in the 
knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the 
direction <A e. Nothing but practice will enable people 
to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg 
and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but 
it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless 
the company be very large. There are two side bones 
by the wing, which may be cut off; as likewise the back 
and lower side-bones : but the best pieces are the breast, 
and the thighs after being divided from the drum-sticks. 
Hare. — The best way of cutting it up is, to put the 

point of the knife under the shoulder at a, in the figure 
opposite the next page, and so cut all the way down to 
the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, b. 
Do the same on the other side, eo that the whole hare will 
be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, 
which with the legs is the part most esteemed. The 
shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a i 
lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them ; and 
then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy 
to every person. This way can only be practised when 
'the hare is young : if old, don't divide it down, which 
trill require a strong arm : but put the knife between the 
leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the 
joint; which you must endeavour to hit, and not to 
break by force- When both legs are taken otF, there is a 
fine collop on each side the back, then divide the back 
into as many pieces as you please, and take off the 



( XYlli ) 

Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warn 
water tbe night previous to washing, as facilitating the 
operation with less friction. 

Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that 
will make a long square when fisrt brought in, and kept 
out of the air two or three wccks ; for if it dry quick, it 
will crack, and when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, 
leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. 
Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. 

Some of the lemons and oranges nsed for juice should 
be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be 
halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the 
outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, 
the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a pro- 
per quantity should be bought and prepared as above di- 
rected, especially by those who live in the country, 
where they cannot always be had ; and they aTe perpe- 
tually wanted in cookery. 

When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other pur- 
poses, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c, to employ 
the ycdks also. Should you not want them for several 
hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in 
a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It 
was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made cokes 
nnd puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and 
Jeparately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are 
an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten 
with fruit, to set in cream, &c. 

If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the couk 
should be cbitrycil to Li! very careful no: (o let the I in be 
rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least 
defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, 



Plate V. 



Pheasant. 




Pigeons. 



( xxix ) 

neatly take off the two siJrsmen, and the whole will be 
done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned 
neatly on the dish : and care should be taken that what 
is left goeB properly from table. The breast and wings 
are looked upon as the best parts ; but the legs are most 
Juicy, in young fowls. After all, more advantage will be 
gained by observing those who carve well, and a little 
practice, than by any written directions whatever. 

A Pheasant. — The bird in the annexed engraving is as 
trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wings. 
When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the 
following is ihe way to carve it : 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; slice it down 
in the lines a, b ; take off the leg on one side in the dot- 
ted line b, d; then cut off the wing on the same side, 
in the line e, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other 
side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided be- 
fore. Be car„ful how you take off the minga; for if you 
should cut too near the neck as at g, you will bit on the 
neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Cut 
off the merrythought in the line /, g, bypassing the knife 
under it towards the neck. Cut the ether parts as in a 
fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the 
most esteemed : but the leg has a higher flavour. 

Partridge. — The partridge is here represented as just 
taken from the spit ; but before it is served up, the skewers 
must be withdrawn. It ia cut up in the same manner as 
a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, !> 
and the merrythought in the line c, d. The prime parts 
of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrythought. 
But the bird being small, the two latter are not often 
divided. The wing is considered as the best, and the tip 
of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole. 



(XXX) 

Pigeons.— Cut them in half, either from top to bottom 
or across. The lower part is generally thought the best ; 
but the fairest way is to cut fiom the neck to a, figure 7, 
rather than from c to b, by a, which is the most fashion- 
able. The figure represents the back of the pigeon ; 
and the direction of the knife is in the line c, b, by «, 
it done the last way. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



PART I. 



FISH. 

To choose Fiih. 

TuRHOT, if good, should be thick, and the belly of 
a yellowish white ; if of a bluish oast, or thin, they 
are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the 
Hummer. 

Salmon. — If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills 
particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. 
When just killed, there is a whiteness between the 
flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this 
melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames 
salmon bears the highest price ; that caught in the Se- 
vern is next in goodness, and is even preferred by some. 
Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. 

Cod.'— The gills should be very red *. the fish should 
be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and 
the eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. They 
are in season from the beginning of December till the 
end of April. 

Skate, — If good they are very white and thick. If 
too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above 
two days. 

Herrinr/s. — If good, their gills are of a fine red and 
the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which 
must be still and firm. 

Safes. — If good they are thick, and the belly is of a 
cream colour ; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby they 
are not fresh. They are in the market almost the 
whole year, but are in the hi » best perfection about 
midsummer, 

a 




Whit'wgs. — The firmness of the body and fins is to 
be looked to, as in herrings ; their high season is during 
the first three months of the year, but they may be had 
a great part of it. 

Mackerel. — Choose as whitings. Their season is 
May, June, and July. They are so tender a fish that 
they carry and keep worse than any other. 

Pike. — For freshness observe the above marks. The 
best are taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and 
are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. 

Carp live some time nut of water, and may therefore 
get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to 
prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them 
as other fish 

Tench. — They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, 
and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught. — 
When they are to be bought, examine whether the gills 
are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body 
stiff. The tench hus a slimy matter about it, the clear- 
ness and brightness of which Bhew freshness. The sea- 
son is July , August, and September. 

Perch. — Take the general rules given to distinguish 
the freshness of other fish. They are not so delicate 
as carp and tench. 

Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, 
and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut. 
— They are caught in the Thames and some other 
large rivers. 

Mullets. — The sea are preferred to the river mullets, 
and the red to the grey. They should be very firm. 
— Their season is August. 

Gudgeons. — They are chosen by the same ruleB as 
other fish. They are taken in running streams ; come 
in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or six 
months. 

Eefs. — There is a greater difference in the goodness 
of eels than of any other fish. The true silver-eel (so 
called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in 
the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are 
very bad ; those takeu in great floods are generally 



fish. 



3 



good, but in ponds they have usually a strong raj Jt fla- 
vour. Except the middle of summer, they are always 
in season. 

Lobsters. — If they have not been long taken, the 
daws will have a strong motion when you put your fin- 
ger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the 
best, and it ia preferable to boil them at home. When 
you buy them ready-boiled, try whether their tails are 
gtifF, and pull up with a spring ; otherwise that part will 
be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow 
back part of his tail, and the two uppermost Ens within 
it are stiff and hard ; but those of the hen are soft, and 
the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, 
has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the co- 
lour when boiled is a deeper red. 

Crabs. — The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- 
dling size are sweetest. If light they are watery : when 
in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff and the body 
has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and 
loose when stale. 

Prawns and Shrimps. — When fresh they have a 
sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is 
bright. — ShrimpB are of the prawn kind, and may be 
judged by the same rules. 

Oysters. — There are several kinds ; the Pyfleet, Col- 
chester, and Milford, are much the best. The native 
Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may 
be made to possess both these qualities in some degree 
by proper feeding. When alive and strong the shell 
closes on the knife. They should be eaten as soon as 
opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The 
rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour 
if eaten raw. 

Flounders. — They should be thick, firm, and have 
their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and 
bad. They are both sea and river fish. The Thames 
produces the best. They are in season from January 
to March, and from July to September. 

Sprats. — Choose bj the Banie rules as Herrings. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Obnervationt on Dretxing Fitfi. 
If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom 
very nicely done ; but those in great towns wash it be- 
yond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual 
watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to 
be boiled, some Bait and a little vinegar should be put 
: ntothe water to give firmness : but Cod, Whiting, and 
Haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a 
day ; and if not very hot weather, they will be good two 
days. 

Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by tak- 
ing more at a time than they want for one day, often get 
it cheap ; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep 
by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being 
fried will Berve for stewing the next day, may then be 
bought with advantage. 

Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste : 
to take off which, soak it in strong salt Hnd water after 
it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it 
in the same; then dry, and dress it. i 

The fish must be put into the water while cold, and 
set to do very gently, or the outside will break before 
the inner part is done. 

Crimp fish should be put into boiling water ; and 
when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check 
extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. 

The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up 
to see if it be ready : it will leave the bone when it is. — - 
It should then be immediately taken out of the water, 
or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should be set 
crosBways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving; and 
a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losing its 
colour. 

Small fish nicely fried, covered with eeg and crumbs, 
make u dish far more elegant than if served plain.' — 
Great attention should be paid to garnishing fish : use 
plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. 

When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is 
more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver 



FISH. 



and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady 
may see them, and help a part to every one. 

If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt m a 
nice soft cloth after it is well cleansed and washed. — 
When perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and 
sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it j if done a 
second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look 
much better; then having a thick-bottomed frying-pan 
on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping 
boiling-hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry 
middhngly quick, till the colour is a fine brown yellow, 
and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it 
has obtaiued a proper degree of colour, the cook should 
draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, 
and either place it on a laTge sieve turned upwards, and 
to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side of 
a dish to drain ; and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap 
paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look 
a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs appear distinct; 
the fish being free from all grease. The same dripping, 
with a little fresh, will serve a second time. Butter 
gives a bad colour : oil fries of the finest colour for 
those who will allow the expense. 

Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or pars- 
ley fried, which must be thus done : When washed and 
picked, throw it again into clean water ; when the lard 
or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately 
from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, 
and must be taken up with a slice : this may be done 
after the fish is fried. 

If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, 
and put on a gridiron that is very clean ; which, when 
hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the 
fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear 
fire, that it may not taste smoky ; and not too near, that 
it may not be scorched. 

TURBOT. 

To keep Turbot. 
If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days, 



DOMESTIC COOKEUV, 



6 

and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed 
over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. 
To boil Tarbot. 

The turbot-kettlemuBtbeof a proper size, and in the 
nicest order. Set the fiBh in cold water sufficient to 
cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass 
of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil : be very 
careful that there fall no blacks ; but skim it well, and 
preserve the beauty of the colour. 

Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled 
parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. 

The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy, 
butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate 
tureens. 

SALMON. 
To boil Salmon. 
Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of 
the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm 
if the fish be split. If underdone it is very unwhole- 
some. 

Shrimp or anchovy-sauce. 

To broil Salmon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and 
salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well 
buttered, twist the ends of the paper, ana broil the 
slices over a slow fire six. or eight minutes. Serve in 
the paper with anchovy- sauce. 

To pot Salmon. 

Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but don't wash 
it; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and 
drained from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves 
and whole pepper ; lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close 
into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; 
when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into 
the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified 
butter. 

In this manner you may do any firm fish. 



To dry Salmon. 
Cut the fiah down, take out the inside and roe. Rub 
the whole with common salt after scaling it j let it hang 
24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt- 
petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of 
bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar ; rub these, 
when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large 
dish or tray two days, then rub it well with common 
salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe 
it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chim- 
ney, or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two small 
sticks. 

Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just 
warmed through ; egg -sauce and mashed potatoes w ith 
it ; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. 
An excellent disk of dried Salmon. 

Pull some into flakes; have ready some eggs boiled 
hard, and chopped large : put both into half a pint of 
thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed 
with a tea-spoonful of floor ; skim it and stir till boil- 
ing hot ; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the 
inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. 
To pickle Salmon^ 

Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil 
the liquor with bay -leaves, pepper-corns, and salt ; add 
vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. 

Another way. 

After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and di- 
vide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle 
to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; 
to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, 
twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, and aquarterof 
an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled 
enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put 
more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon 
it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle 
be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add 
mDre, and boil it quick three quarters of an hour. When 



8 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let 
there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Pre- 
serve it from the air, The liquor must be drained from 
the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. 
Salmon collared. 
Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to 
make an handsome roll, Mash and wipe it, and having 
mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace and Jamaica 
pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside 
and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as 
much water and one-third vinegar us will cover it, with 
bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, 
and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the 
lipuor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It 
is an elegant dish, and extremely good. 

COD. 

Some people boil the cod whole ; but a large head 
and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, 
the thinner parts being overdone and tasteless, before 
the thick are ready. Cut the whole fish may be pur- 
chased at times more reasonably ; and the lower halt, 
if sprinkled und hung up, will be in high perfection one 
or two days. Or it may be made suiter, and Berved 
with egg-sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. 

Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled 
quite fresh it is watery ; but eats excellently if Salter! 
and hung up for a day to give it firmness, then stuffed 
and broiled, or boiled. 

Cod's Head a?id Shoulders 
Will eat much finer by having a little salt nibbed 
down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to be 
eaten the same day. 

Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water which 
will completely cover it : throw a handful of salt into 
it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the 
smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large 
quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and 
the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. 



FISH. 



9 



It' with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the 
fish ; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as 
well as their flavour. 

Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp-sauce, and 
anchovy and butter. 

Crimp Cod. 

Boil, broil, or fry. 

Cod Sounds boiled. 

Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape 
and clean ; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk 
and water ; when tender serve them in a napkin, with 
egg-sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, 
unless for fricassee. 

Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens. 

A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds 
nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; 
when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs 
of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and 
the yolks of two eggs : spread it thin over the sounds, 
and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it ; 
then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little 
flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When 
done enough, pour over them a fine oyster-sauce. Serve 
for side of corner dish. 

To broil Cod Sounds. 

Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the 
dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take 
them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, 
season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- 
spoonful of soy, and a little mustard: give it a boil 
with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the 
sounds. 

Cod Sounds ragout. 
Prepare as above ; then stew them in white gravy 
seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added 
before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon- 
peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give 
the flavour. 



10 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Carrie of Cod 

Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been 
crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of 
I fine brown with onion; and stew it with a good white 
gravy, a little currie -powder, a bit of butter and flour, 
three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, 
if the powder be not hot enough. 

To dress salt Cod. 
Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay 
it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Itoil it 
enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; pour over 
it parsnips boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boiled 
Up with (-ream and a large piece of butter rubbed with 
a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg- 
sauce instead of the parsnip, and the root sent tip whole ; 
or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, 
and sauces as above. 

BTUHHBON. 

To dress freak Sturgeon. 

Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with 
crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt: fold them in 
paper, and broil gently. 

Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. 

To Tooutt Sturgeon* * 

Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; baste 
it constantly with butter ; and serve with a good gravy, 
an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and 
a glass of sherry. 

Anniher. 

Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew-pan 
with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, 
some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass 
of vinegar. Set it over the lire till hot ; then let it be- 
come lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. 
Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without 
letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and 
anchovy-sauce. 



visn. 



11 



An excellent Imitation of pickle Sturgeon. 
Take a fine large turkey, biit not old: pick it very 
nicely, singe, and make it extremely clean : bone and 
wash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of maU 
string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan 
a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white 
(but noi sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt; 
boil and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done 
enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a 
weight of two pounds over it. 

Boil the liquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, 
put the turkey into it. This will keep some months, 
and eats more delicately than sturgeon ; vinegar, oil, 
and sugar, are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar 
or Bait should be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel 
over it to table. 

Thomback and Skate 
Should be hung one day at least before they are dressed ; 
and may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, 
being first dipped in egg. 

Cnmp Skate. 
Boil and send up in a napkin ; or fry as above. 
Maids 

Should likewise be hung one day at leaBt. They may 
be boiled or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle 
may beboiledandthe finsfried. They should be dipped 
in egg, and covered with crumbs. 

Boiled Carp. 

Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will 
find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. 
Stetced Carp. 

Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c. lay the fish 
in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight 
cloves, a desert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same 
of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy of port 
Jcyder may do) ; simmer close covered : when nearly 
done add two anchovies chopped fine, a desert spoonful 
of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit 



I 



DOMESTIC COOKKUY. 



of batter rolled in flour, shake it, and let tr.e gravy boil 
a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the 
roe fried, and agood deal of horse-radish and lemon. 
Baked Carp. 

Clean a large carp ; put a stuffing hb for soles, dressed 
in the Portuguese way. Sew it up; brush it nil over 
with yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs ; then drop 
oiled butter to baste them ; place the carp in a deep 
earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock), 
a few sliced onions, some bay-leaves, a faggot of herbs 
(such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sorts of mar- 
joram), half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies, 
cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be 
done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and 
keep the fish hot while you beat up the liquor with a 
good piece of butter rolled in Hour, a tea-spoonful of 
mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve 
the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, and parsley, 
and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the sauce- 
tureen. 

Perch and Tench. 

Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and 
serve with melted butter and soy. Percli are a most 
delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but 
in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. 
Tn fry Treat and Gray tine. 

Scale, gut, and well wash; then dry them, and lay 
them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting 
tome flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with 
fresh dripping; serve with crimp parsley, and plain 
butter. 

Perch and Tench may be done the same way. 
Trout a-la-Genevoise. 

Clean the fish very well ; put it into your stewpan, 
adding half Champaign and half Moselle, or Rhenish, 
or Sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, 
a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley 
and thyme ; put in it a crust of French bread *>.set it ou 



Ftsir. 



13 



a quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out, 
bruise it, and then thicken the sauce ; add flour and a 
little butter, and let it boil up. See that jour sauce is 
of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and 
pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and 
tied bread. 

MACKEREL. 

Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. 

To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, 
and salt ; or stuff with the Bame, crumbs, and chopped 
fennel. 

Collared, as Eel, page 17. 

Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with 
spice, bay-leaves, and some butter; when cold, lay 
them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter. 

Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a 
few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar ; when cold, 
pour it over them. 

Pickled Mackerel, called Caveach. 

Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, 
or leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six 
pieceB. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of 
pepper, two nutmegs, a little raace, four cloves, and a 
handful of salt, all in the finest powder; mix, and 
making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning 
mto them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry 
them brown in oil ; let them stand till cold, then put 
them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar ; if to 
keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus dooe they may 
be preserved for months. 

Red Mullet. 

It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the 
inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small 
dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that cumes from the 
fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a li ttle essence 
of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil ; and 
•erve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. 



To dreas Pipers. 
Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned.— 
If baked, put a large cup oi' rich broth into the dish; 
and when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, 
and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for 
sauce. 

To bake Pike. 

Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then 
stuff it with the following : grated bread, herbs, ancho- 
vies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of 
cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it 
thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up; butter 
should be put over it in little bits ; bake it. Serve sauce 
of gravy, butter, and nnehovy. .Voir: if in helping 
a pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently 
drawn duwnwards, there will be fewer bunes given. 

HADDOCK. 

Boil or broil with Huffing as under, /laving salted 
them a day. 
To dry Haddock' 

Choose them of two or three pounds weight : take out 
the gills, eyes, and entrails, ana remove the blood from 
the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into 
the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; 
then bang them up in a dry place, and after three or 
four days, they will he fit to eat; Bkin and rub them 
with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them be- 
fore the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. 
Serve with egg. sauce. 

Whitings if large, are excellent this way ; and it will 
prove an accommodation in the country where there is 
no regular supply of fish. 

Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and matt Cod, 

Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh 
butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little 
onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; 
an anchovy or two ; a little salt and nutmeg, and some 



PISH. 



pepper Oysters will be an improvement with or with- 
out anchovies ; add crumbs, and an egg to hind, 

SOLES. 

If boiled, they must be Berved with great care to 
Jbok perfectly white, and should be much covered with 
parsley. 

If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs 
rf bread ; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, 
and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, 
boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of 
a fine brown. See to fry, page 12. 

Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vine- 
gar, salt, and mustard. 

Stewed Soles, 
Do as carp, page 11. 

Soles another way. 
Take two or three soles, divide them from the back- 
bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle 
the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end 
upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or 
middling, put half a fish in each roll : small do not an- 
swer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them 
with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then 
put more crumbs ; and fry them a beautiful colour in 
lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. 

Soles in the Portuguese way. 
Take one large or two small : if large, cut the fish m 
two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones be- 
ing taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of but- 
ter and some lemon juice, give it a fry, then lay the 
fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, 
and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small 
skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat 
an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put 
the remainder of the egg, with a little meat-gravy, a 
spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and 
some parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan ; 
cover it close, and bake till the fish are done enough in 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serv- 
ing, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked 
ib Bkimmed ■ if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as 
above, must be prepared and added to it. 

Portuguese stuffing for Sole* baked. 

Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, u little ; then add 
some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, 
and some onionB, a Utile garlick or shalot, some parslry, 
anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; pound all fine with 
a few crumbs, and bind it with two or three yolks 
eggs. 

The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the 
split part, and kept on the outer Bide of the roll ; and 
when served the heads arc to be turned towards each 
other iti the dish. 

Garnish with fried or dried parsley. 

Ah excellent tpay of dressing a large Plaice, especially 
if there he a roe. 

Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hourB ; then 
wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, cover with 
crumbs of bread ; make some lard or fine dripping, 
and two large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot ; lay tire 
fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fiit ( 
and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. 
You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the 
pan. 

To fry Smelts. 

They should not be washed more than is necessary to 
clean them. Dry them in a cloth; then lightly flour 
them, but shake it ofl'. Dip them into plenty of egg, 
then into bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them 
into a good pan of boiling lard ; let them continue 
gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a 
bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the 
light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will Ire 
lost. 



FISH, 



17 



EELS, 

Spitchcock Eels. 
Take one or two large eels, leave the akin on, cut 
them into pieces of three inches long, open them on the 
belly side, and clean them nicely : wipe them dry, and 
then wet them with beaten egg, and strew overon both 
sides chopped parsley, pepper, Bait, a very little sage, 
and a bit of mace pounded tine and mixed with the sea- 
soning. Eub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil 
the fish of a fine colour. 

Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. 

Fried Eels. 

If small, they should be curled round and fried, being 
first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. 

Boiled Eels, 

The small ones are best : do them in a small quantity 
of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be 
served up with them and the liquor. 

Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 

Eel Broth, very nourishing for the sick. 
Do as above ; but stew two hours, and add an onion 
and pepper-corns : salt to taste. 

Collared Eel. 

Bone a large eel, but don't skin it : mix pepper, salt, 
mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, 
and rub over the whole inside ; roll it tight, and bind 
with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till enough, 
then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in 
pickle. Serve it either whole or in' slices. Chopped 
sage, parsley, and a little thyme; knotted marjoram, 
and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve 
the taste. 

To Stew Lamprey as at Worcester. 
After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage 
which runs down the back, and season with a small 
quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and all- 
spice i put it intu a small stew-pot, with very strong 



18 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira, or 
sherry. 

It must be covered close : stew till tender, then take 
out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the 
liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some 
flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and 
add lemon-juice and some made mustard. Serve with 
sippets of bread and horse-radish. 

Eels, done in the same way, are a good deal like the 
lamprey. When there is spam, it must be fried and 
put round. 

Note. Cydet will do in common instead o.. white 
wine. 

FLOUNOEnS. 

Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie 
two hours to give thein some firmness. Dip them into 
egg; cover with crumbs, and fry them. 

Water Souchy. 

Stew two or three flounderH, some parsley-leaves and 
roots, thirty pepper-corns, and a quart of water, till the 
fish are boiled to pieces : pulp them through a sieve. Set 
over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, 
some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves 
arid roots of parsley ; simmer all till done enough, then 
serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to 
be sent to table, to eat with the souchy. 

HERRINGS and SPRATS. 

To smoke Herrings. 
Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one 
night ; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in 
a row. Have ready an old cask, on which put some 
sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the 
stick over the smoke, and let them remain 24 hours. 
Fried Herrings. 
Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced und 
fried. 



FISH. 



19 



Broiled Herrings. 
Flour them first, and do of a good colour : plain but- 
ter tl t aauce. 

Potted Herrings 
Are very good done like Mackerel, see page 13. 
To dress Red Herrings. 
Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, 
and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half 
an houTj drain them dry, and make them just hot 
through before the lire, then rub some cold butter over 
them and serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mash- 
ed potatoes, should be sent up with them. 

Baked Herrings or Sprats. 
Wash and drain without wiping them; season with 
allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves ; 
lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, 
and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small 
beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, 
and bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre 
over them the night before, to make them look red. 
Gut, hut do not open them. 

Sprats 

When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer 
run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot 
and hot. 

lobsters and SHRIMPS. 
To pot Lobsters. 
Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small 
bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, 
press close into a pot and cover with butter, bake half 
an hour ; put the spawn in. When cold take the lob- 
ster out, and put it into the pots with a little of thebut« 
ter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the 
spawn ; then mix that coloured butter with as much as 
will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cay- 
enne may be added, if approved. 

Another way to pot Lobsters, as at Wood's HoleL 
Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail 



20 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



and remove the gut ; if the inside be not watery, add 
that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, 
and a clove or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little 
fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster 
smooth over it, with bay-leaves between ; cover it with, 
butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole 
on the bottom of a sieve ; and with a fork lay the pieces 
into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning 
about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but 
not hot. Itwill be good next day -. or highly seasoned, 
ami thick covered with butter, will keep some time. 

Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, 
with a cream-sauce : it then looks very nicely, and eats 
excellently, especially if there is spawn. 

Mackerel, Herringt, and Trout t are good potted as 
above. 

Stewed Lobster, a vert/ high relish. 
Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has 
a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two 
spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut- 
ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of 
port; stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as 
above. 

Battered Lobsters. 
Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little 
weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, 
with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy 
and cream. 

To roast Lobsters. 

When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of 
the water, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it 
before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it 
has a fine froth. 

Currie of Lobsters, or Prarms. 

Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with 
a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal- 
gravy, and four of cream : rub smooth one or two tea- 
•pooufuls of currie-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and 



fish. 



'21 



an ounce of butter; simmer an hour ; squeeze half a 
lemon in, and add salt. 

Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful disk. 

Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the hot- 
torn of a deep small dish : when cold, lay the cray-fish 
with their back downwards, and pour more jelly over 
them. Turn out when cold. 

To butter Prawns or Shrimps. 

Take them out of the shells; and warm them with a 
little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a Hcrape of 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; simmer a minute or two, and 
serve with sippets : or with a cream-sauce instead of 
brown. 

To pot Shrimps, 
When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season 
them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and 
cloves. PresB them into a pot, set it in the oven ten 
minutes, and when cold put butter. 

CRABS. 

Hot Crab. 

Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the 
head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pep- 
per, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before 
the fire. You may brown it with a salamander. 

Dry toast should be served to eat upon. 

Dressed Crab cold. 

Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, 
salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne: then put 
the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little 
oil is necessary. 

OYSTERS. 
To feed Oysters. 
Put them into water, and wash them with a birch- 
besotu till quite clean ; then lay them bottom-down- 
wards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and 
salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, 



28 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



and they will fatten. The water should be pretty 
salt. 

To stew Oyster*. 
Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash 
them from the grit ; strain the liquor, and put with the 
oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white 
peppers. Simmer them very gently, and put Borne 
cream, and a little flour and butter. 
Serve with sippets. 

Boiled Oysters 
Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first ; and 
serve in them, to eat with cold butter. 

To scallop Oysters, 
Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, 
and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and 
bake before the tire in a Dutch oven. 

Fried Oysters, to garnish boiled Fish. 
Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a 
very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine 
yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the 
seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. 
Oyster Sauce. 

See Saucss. 

Oyster Loaves, 
Open them, and Bave the liquor ; wash them in it ; 
theu strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into 
tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a 
scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, nnd 
cut in dice; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. 
Oyster Patties. 

See Patties. 

To pickle Oysters. 
Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in 
their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, 
adding to it a desert-spoonful of pepper, two blades 
of mace, a table-spoonful of salt , if the liquor be not 
very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar. — 



FISH. 



23 



Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put 
them in small jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and 
when cold, pour over the oysters : cover close. 

Another tray to pickle if *r*. 

Open the number you intend to pickle, put them 
into a saucepan with their own liquor tor ten minutes, 
simmer them very gently; then put them into ajar, 
one by one, that none of the grit may Btick to them, 
and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. 
Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and 
black peppers, and to every hundred put two spoon- 
fuls of the best undistilled vinegar. 

They should be kept in small jars, and tied close 
with bladder, for the air will spoil them. 

Note. — Directions for making Fisk Pies will he 
found under the head Pies. 



PART II, 
MEATS. 
To choose Meats. 
Fenixon. — -If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and 
fhe cleft part smooth and close, it is young ; but if the 
cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweet- 
ness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or 
haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people 
like it when it has much of the haut gout t 

Beef. — If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a 
fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look ten- 
der. The fat should look white ratheT than yellow ; for 
when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : 
beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is 
flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat 
whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so 
bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the 
fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a 



24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef ia the 
richest and largest, but in small families, and to some 
tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat 
there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef : the harder 
this is, the older ; and the flesh is not finely flavoured, 

Vtal, — The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not 
so white. The fillet nf the cow-calf is generally pre- 
ferred for the udder. The whitest is not the moBt juicy, 
having been made so by frequent bleeding and having 
had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kid- 
ney is well coverpd with white thick fat. If the bloody 
vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is 
newly killed ; but any other colour shews it stale. The 
otherparts should be dry and white ; if clammy or spot- 
ted, the meat is Btale and bad. The kidney turns fir»t 
in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. 

Mutton. — Choose this by the fineness of its grain, 
good colour, and firm white fat. It is not tbe better 
for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is 
better lbrage ; but this only holds with wether-mutton : 
the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. 
Ram-mutton is very strong-flavoured; the flesh is of a 
deep red, and the fat is spongy. 

Lamb. — Observe the neck of a fore-quarter: if the 
vein is bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellow 
cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint 
smell under tbe kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the 
meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the bead is Dot fresh. 
Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May, and con- 
tinues till August. House-lamb may be had in great 
towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in 
December and January, 

Pork. — Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. 
If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- 
pressed by the finger, it ia old. A thin rind is a merit 
m all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and 
cool ; if clammy, it is tainted. What is calbd measly 
pork is very unwholesome ; and may be known by the 
fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never 



MEAT. 25 

the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for 
curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork 
is the best. 

Bacon. — If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red 
tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to 
the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If 
there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already 
rusty. 

Hams. — Stick a sharp knife under the bone: if it 
comes out w ith a pleasant smell , the ham is good ; but 
if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. 
Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs 
re not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. 
Brawn. — The homy part of young brawn will feel 
moderately tender, and the flavour will be better; the 
rind of old will be hard. 

Observations, on purchasing, keeping, and dressing 
Meat. 

In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes 
farthest : it cuts out with most advantage, and affords 
most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and 
leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price; but 
as they have more solid meat, they deserve the prefer- 
ence. It is worth notice, however, that those joints 
which are inferior mny be dressed as palatably : and 
being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn ; for, 
when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes 
the price of these come lower, 

In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone 
should be taken out, as it is apt to taint ; as also the 
kernels of beef. Bumps and edgebones of beef are 
often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, 
d the part that has been struck always taints ; there- 
re do not purchase these joints if bruised. 
The shank-bones of mutton should be saved ; and, 
after soaking and brushing, may be added to give rich- 
ness to gravies or soupB. They are also particularly 
nourishing for sick persons. 



an 

foi 



■it ; 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton , come 
in, part of the Buet may be cut off for puddings, or to 
clarify 

Dripping will baste every thing as well as butter, 
except fowls and game; and for kitchen pies, nothing 
else should be used. 

The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a fur 
lighter pudding than suet. 

Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should 
be soaked in cold water two or three hours before UBed, or 
more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot 
water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible 
for any heat to dreBs them properly afterwards. 

Inwarm weather, meat should lie examined well whi n 
it comes in ; and if flieshave touched it, the part must be 
cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, 
it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an 
hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to 
have been fly-blown ; then wipe it quite dry, and have 
salt ready, an d rub it thorough ly in ev e ry part, tb ro w inga 
handful over it besides. Turn it every day , and rub the 
pickle in, which will make it ready for the table in three or 
lour days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well- 
floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method 
will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes on, 
but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. 

If the weather permit, meat eats much better for 
hanging two or three days before it is salted. 

The water in which meat has been boiled makes an 
excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, 
oatmeal, or peas. 

Roast-beef boneB, or shank-bones of ham, make fine 
peas -soup ; and Bhould be boiled with the peas the day 
before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. 

In some families great loss is sustained by the spoil- 
ing of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten 
tmsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, 
wipe it every day, and put some pieces of charcoal over 
it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm wea- 



MEAT. 



ther, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, 
and bring it early in the morning ; but even then, if it 
is to be kept on the road while he serves his customers, 
who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. 
This happens often in the country. 

Wash all meat before you dress it : if for boiling, the 
colour will be better for soaking; butifforroasting, dry it, 

"Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. 

Particular caremustbe taken that the pot is well akim- 
med the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be 
dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are 
skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. 

The boiler and utensils should bekeptdelicately clean. 

Put the meat into cold water, and flour it well first. 
Meat boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken 
that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will 
be underdone. 

If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen 
much ; therefore when you wish it to boil away, take 
off the cover of the soup-pot. 

Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, 
except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. 

As to the length of time required for roasting and boil- 
ing, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, 
the regular though slow progress it makes ; for if the 
cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, 
let it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time will not 
be sufficient, and the meat will be under-done. 

Weigh the meat ; and allow for all solid joints a quar- 
ter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from 
ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. 

A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a 
half, and others in proportion. 

A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling, after 
soaking; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and & 
half to three houra, or more if very large ; it must be 
judged by feeling whether it ia very tender. 



DOMESTIC COOKE11Y. 



A leg of pork, or of lamb, takea the full allowance of 
twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a pound. 

In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two 
hours and a half; twenty pounds will take three hours 
and three quarters. 

A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept 
at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. 

The meat should be put at a good distance from the 
fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part 
becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched 
while yet raw. Meat should be much basted ; and 
when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. 

Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over 
the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for 
basting, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. 

The cook should be careful not to run the spit through 
the best parts ; and should observe that it be well cleaned 
before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears 
on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the 
bones, and rim along them for some distance, so as not to 
injure the prime of the meat : and the cook should have 
leaden Bkewers to balance it with ; for want of which, 
ignorant servants are often troubled atthe time of serving. 

In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little 
salt and water into the dripping pan, and baste for a 
little while with this, beibre using its own fat or drip- 
ping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. 

Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the 
gravy ; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. 

Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a 
proper size for what is required, are the first articles of 
a good cook's attention in roasting. 

Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; 
not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten 
with the gravy more in. 

A piece of w riting paper should be twisted round the 
bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, 
or venison, when roasted, beibre they are 




ted.. . • " 



28» 



VENISON. 

1. Haunch. 

2. Neck. 

3. Shoulder. 

4. Breast. 



Hind Quarter. 

1. Sirloin. 

2. Hump. 

3. Edge,Bone. 

4. Buttock! 

5. Mouse Buttock. 

6. Veiny Piece. 

7. Thick Flank. 

8. Thin Flank. 

9. Leg. 

10. Fore Rib ; 5 Ribs. 



BEEF. 

Fore Quarter. 

11. Middle Rib; 4Rib». 

12. Chuck; 3 Ribs. 
12. Shoulder or Leg of 

Mutton Piece. 

14. Brisket. 

15. Clod. 

16. Neck or Sticking* 
Piece. 

17. Shin. 

18. Cheek. 



VENISON. 



When you wish fried things tolook as well as possible, 
do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that 
is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look 
well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot 
the moment the fish, meat, &.c. are put in, and kept so 
till finished ; a small quantity never fries well. 

To keep meat hot. — It is best to take it up when 
done, though the company may not be come ; set the 
dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over 
it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth 
over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. 

vbnison. 
To keep Venison. 

Preserve the venison dry, wash it with milk and water 
very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least 
damp remains ; then dust pounded ginger over every 
part, which is a good preventative against the fly. By 
thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. 
When to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, 
and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. 
To dresx I'enittan, 

A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or 
three quarters roastiug : doe, only three hours and a quar- 
ter. Venison should be rather over than under-done. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it 
over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt ; then 
lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover thehaunch ; 
tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from 
the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often ; 
ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the 
meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good 
deal of flour to make it froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the 
dish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus: 
Cut off the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old 
mutton, and setitin steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes 
just to brown one side ; put them into a sauce-pan with a 
quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer 



29* 



VEAL 



1. Loin, best End. 

2. Loin, Chump End. 

3. Fillet. 

4. Hind Knuckle. 

5. Fore Knuckle. 



6. Neck, best End. 

7. Neck, Scrag End. 

8. Blade Bone. 

9. Breast, best End. 
10. Breast, Brisket End. 



PORE. 

1. TheSparerib. 

2. Hand. 

3. Belly or Spring. 

4. Fore Loin. 

5. Hind Loin. 

6. Leg. 



MUTTON. 



1. Leg. 

2. Loin, best End. 

3. Loin, Chump End. 

4. Neck, best End. 

5. Neck, Scrag End. 



6. Shoulder. 

7. Breast. 

A Chine is two Loins. 
A Saddle is two Necks. 



90 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



it gently ; then uncover it, and Btew till the gravy U 
reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. 

Currant-jeUy must be served in a boat. 

Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison ; which, as 
some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate 
white bread, and boil it with port wine, water, and a large 
stick of cinnamon ; and when quite smooth take out the 
cinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. 

Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant-jelly 
and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the 
fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more 
wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt 
as above. Serve with French beans. 

Haunch, Neck, and Shoulder of Venison. 

Roast w ith pas teas directed above , and the Bame sauce. 
To stew a Shoulder of Venison. 

Let the meat hang till you think it fit to dress ; then 
take out the bone, heat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay 
aome slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a 
little port wine, among it, sprinkle a little pepper and all- 
spice over in tine powder, roll it up tight, and tic it. Set 
it in a ste wpan that w ill only just hold it, with some mut- 
ton or beef gravy not Btrong, \ pint of port wine ; some 
pepper and allspice. Simmer it close-covered, as slow 
aa you can, for 3 or4 hours. When quite teudcr,take off 
then tape, aet the meat in a dish ; strain the gravy over 
it; serve with currant-jelly sauce,— This is the best way 
to dress thiB joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should 
be roasted. The bone should be stewed with it. 
Breast of V enison. 

Do it as the shoulder, or miiko it into a small pnsty. 
Hashed Venison 

Should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without 
seasoning, as before ; and only warmed through , not boil- 
ed. If there is no fat left, cut Bome slices of mutton-fat, 
■etit on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer 
till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the 



EE£F. 



31 



fat of the venison. — For Venison Pasty look under the 
head Pastry; as likewise an excellent imitation. 

BBKP. 

To keep Beef. 

The butcher should take out the kernels id the neck- 
pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, two from each 
round of beef; one in the middle, which is called the 
pope's-eye ; the other from the flap : there is also one in 
the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are 
not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of 
no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another 
kernel between the rump and the edgebone. 

As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the 
cook should take out the kernels; and then nib the salt 
well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprin 
kle that which is for roasting. 

The flesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly 
cleared of food, soon spoils. They should fast twenty- 
four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, 
before being killed. 

To salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately. 

The piece should not weigh more than 5 or 6 pounds. 
Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the 
pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and 
fold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and 
boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same 
size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five day s. 

Great attention is requisite in salting meat ; and in the 
country, where large quantities are cured, this is of par- 
ticular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprin- 
kled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it 
is rubbed with Bait; which method, by cleansing the 
meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasti ng strong. 
It should be turned every day; and if wanted soon, 
should be rubbed as often. A salting- tub or lead may be 
used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal 
of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, 



34 



DOMESTIC COOKtRT. 



good beef-broth, or -weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as 
possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off 
the fat: and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a 

fkss of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup ; simmer 
alf an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Hall' a pint of 
table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should 
be bumet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, mar- 
joram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives 
if you can get them, butobserve to proportion the quan- 
tities to the pungency of the several sorts ; let there be a 
good handful altogether. 

Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or 
pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little 
neaps separate ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, 6tc. 
If, when done, the gravy is too much to till the d)Bh, 
take only a part to season for serving, but the less water 
the better; and to increase the richness, add a few heef- 
bones and shanks of mutton in stewing. — A spoonful or 
two of mademustard is a great improvement to the gravy. 
Rump roasted is excellent ; but in the country it is gene- 
rally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across instead 
of lengthways as in London, where one piece is for boiling, 
and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be 
attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. 
Steiced Pump anotJttr way. 
Half-roast it: then put it into a large pot with 3 pints 
of water, 1 of small beer, 1 of port wine, some salt, 3 or 
4 Bpoonfuls of vinegar, 2 of ketchup, a bunch of sweet 
herbs of various kinds (such as liurnet, tarragon, pain- 
ley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knot- 
ted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, 
cloves, and Cayenne ; cover it close, and simmer till 
quite tender : 2 or 3 hours will do it. When done 
lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover 
it close. Skim the gravy i put in a few pickled mush- 
rooms, truffles, morells, and oysterB if agreeable, but it 
is good without ; thicken the gravy with flour and but- 
ter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the 
beef. Forcemeat-ballB of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, 



BEEF. 



15 



herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great im- 
provement. 

To Stew Brisket of Beef. 

Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew-pot with a 
small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it tho- 
roughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and 
ft few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender ; then 
take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the 
soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen ; or the 
soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some 
vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, serv- 
ed with the beef: — Take half a pint of the soup, and mix 
it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, 
and salt ; boil all together a few minutes, then pnur it 
round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, 
pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley, Bmall, and 
put in separate heaps over it. 

To press Beef. 

Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the tops 
of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then boil it 
gently till extremely tender ; put it xmder a great 
weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. 

It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. 
To make Hunters? Beef. 

To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, 
take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the 
coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an 
amice of allspice, and three handfuls of common salt, 
all in the finest powder. 

The beef should hang two or three days : then rub the 
above weu< into it, and turn and rub it every day for two 
or three weekB. The bone must be taken out at first. 
When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off 
the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into 
a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the 
top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a 



3fi 



DOMESTIC COOKKHV. 



brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. 
When cold, take off the paste and tape. 

The gravy ia very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly 
to the flavour of any hash, soup, fitc. 

Doth the gravy and the beef will keep some time* 
The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and 
quite smooth, to prevent waBte. 

An excellent Mode of dressing Beef. 

Hang three riba three or four days ; take out the hones 
from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat 
tight, and roast it, Nothing can look nicer. The above 
done with spicea. Sec, and baked as hunters' beef, is 
t'.xcellen t. 

To collar Beef. 
&100M the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, 
hut not too fat ; lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, 
lum and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cooL 
Then hike out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of 
the inside part, and cover it thick with the following sea- 
soning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of 
sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, 
sa'lu and allspice. lb»ll the meat up as li^htas possible, 
and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eighthours 
A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the bee 
under a good weight while hot, without undoing it ■ the 
shape will then he oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled 
in with the beef, looks and eats very well. 

BeefSteaks 

Should be cut from a rump that has hung n few days. 
Uroil thorn over a very clear or charcoal fire : put into the 
dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful oi'ketch- 
up ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of 
serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may 
not be drawn out on either side. 

This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh-done, 
that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. 
Pepper and salt should be added when taking it oil' the 
fire. 



BEEF. 



Beef-Steals and Oyster-sauce, 
Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them 
into cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the 
liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel ; then put the 
oysterB in, stew them a few minutes, add a little cream if 
you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour : let 
them boil up once ; and have rump-steaks, well seasoned 
and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, 
the moment you are to serve. 

Staffardnkire Beef-Steaks. 
Beat them a little with a rolling-pin, flour and season, 
then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown ; lay the 
steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water 
over them as will serve for sauce : stew them very gently 
half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut- 
liquor, before you serve. 

Italian Beef-Steaks. 
Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well 
hung, or it will do from any tendi-r part ; beat it, and 
season with pepper, salt and onion ; lay it in an iron Btew- 
pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the 
side of the fire without water. Take care it docs not 
burn, but it must have a strong heat: in two or three 
hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own 
gravy. 

Beef-Collop. 

Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other 
tender part, and divide them into pieces 3 inches long; 
beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry 
the collops quick in butter two minutes ; then lay them 
into a small stew-pan , and cover them with a pint of'gravy; 
add a hit of butter rubbed in Hour, pepper, salt, the least 
bit of shalot sbred as fine as possible, half a walnut, 4 
small pickled cucumbers, and a tea-spoonful of capers 
cut small. Take care that it does uot boil ; and serve 
the stew in a very hot covered dish, 
Beef-Palates. 

Simmer them in water several hours, till they w ill peel ; 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



then cut the paktes into slices, or leave them whole, as 
you choose * and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender 
as possible. Before you serve, season themwith cayenne, 
salt, and ketchup. If thii gravy was drawn clear, add 
also some butter and flour. 

If to be served white, boil them in milk,and stew them 
in a fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, and 
mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. 

Beef Cake* far a side dish of dreji/ted Meat. 
Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat 
bacon, or ham; season with pepper, salt, and a little 
sbalot, or garlick ; mix them well ; and make into small 
cakes 3 inches long; and half as wide and thick : fry 
them a lightbrown, andserve them in agood thick gravy. 

To pet Beef. 

Take 2 pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, and 
let it he one night ; then Bait with common salt, and 
cover it with water 4 days in a small pan. Dry it with a 
cloth, and season with black pepper ; lay it into as small 
a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake 
it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. 

When cold , pick out the Btrings and fat ; beat the meat 
very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just 
warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will 
make it into a paste ; put it into very small pots, and 
cover them with melted butter. 

Another way.— Tukebeef that has been dressed, either 
boiled or roasted ; beat it ina mortar with some pepper, 
salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little hue but- 
ter jus l warm. 

This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is 
a good way for using the remains of a large joint. 

To dress the Inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef. 

Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick 
as your finger, and 2 inches long : dredge it with Hour ; 
and fry in butter, of a nice brown : drain the butter from 
the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on 



BEEF 



39 



any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of 
vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. 

Fricassee of Cold roast Beef. 
Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of 
parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put 
all together into a stewpan, with apiece of butter and 
some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and sim- 
mer very gently a quarter of an hour; then mix into it 
the yolks of 2 eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of 
vinegar ; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and tnrn 
the fricassee into it. 

To dress cold beef that has not been done enoug\ 
called Beef-Olives. 

Cut slices I an inch thick, and 4 inches square ; lay 
on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little 
ffuet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Eoll them, and fasten 
wi th a small skewer ; put them into a stew-pan with 
some gravy made of the beef bones, or the gravy of the 
meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them 
till tender. Fresh meat will do. 

To dress the same, called Sanders. 

Mince beef, or mutton, small, with onion, pepper 
and salt ; add a little gravy ; put it into snallop -shells, 
or saucers, making them three parts full, and fill them 
up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a bit 
of butter on the top, and brown them in an ovea or 
before the fire, or with a salamander. 

To dress the same, called Cecils. 

Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good 
deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, 
chopped parsley, and a bit of butter warm, and mix 
these over a fire for a few minutes ; when cool 
enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape 
of aturkey's egg, with an egg: sprinkle them with fine 
crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow brown, and 
serve with gravy as before directed for Beef-olives. 
To mince Beef. 

Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; 



DOMESTIC COoK£RV. 



put it into a small stew-pan, with same onion or shalot 
{a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and suit : 
boil it till the onion is quite soil, then put some of the 
gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Don't let it boil- 
Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and 
pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of 
vinegar with it : if shslot-vinegar is used, there will be- 
no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. 

To hash Beef. 

Do it the same as in the last receipt ; only the meat 
is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of wahiut- 
liqmir or ketchup, 

Observe, that it is owing to Lading hashes or minces 
that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed 
a second time, should be only simmered j and this last 
only hot through. 

Beef d-la-vingref/e. 

Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches 
thick, and u little tat ; slew it in half a pint of water, a 
glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, 
and a bay leaf; season it with three cloves pounded, and 
pepper, till the liquor is nearly waBted away, turning it 
once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and 
mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. 

Round of Beef 
Should he carefully salted, and wet with the pickle for 
eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, 
and the beefskewered and tieduptoraake it quite round. 
It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved; in which 
case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with 
a sharp pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and 
stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should bo 
skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. 
Boiled Beef that equals Uare. 

Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of 
port wine and a class of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight 
hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up 
tight, lloast it on a hanging spit ; and haste it w i th a 



II 



glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a 
tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves 
the look and flavour ; serve with a rich gravy in the 
diah ; currant-jelly and melted-butter, in tureens. 
To roast Tongue and Udder. 

After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common 
salt and saltpetre three days ; then boil it, and likewise 
a fine young udder with some lat to it, till tolerably 
tender ; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of 
the other, and roast the tongue and udder together. 

Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. 
A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an 
excellent dish. 

Some people like neat's tongues cured with the root, 
in which case they look much larger ; but otherwise the 
root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, 
but without takingaway the fat under the tongue. The 
root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely 
well cleaned, before it is dressed : and the tongue should 
be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. 

To pickle Tongues for boiling. 

Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. 
Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till 
next day: then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of 
common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half 
as much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every day. 
In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If nib- 
bed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight ; 
but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four 
or five weeks without being too salt. 

When you dry tongues, write the date on a parch- 
ment and tie it on. bmoke them, or dry them plain, 
if you like best. 

"When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; 
allow five hours; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. 
The longer kept alter drying, the higher it will be : if 
hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. 
Another iwy . — Clean as above ; for two tongues allow 



DDMKSTIC COOKEUY. 



on ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-prunella ; 
rub them well. In two days, after well rubbing, cover 
diem with common salt, turn them every day for three 
weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and 
smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep 
in a cool dry place. 

To stew Tongue. 

Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a 
week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to 
peel : when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; 
season with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pound- 
ed cloves, and salt if necessary. 

Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both 
this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off 
the tongues before salting, but some fat left. 

An excellent way of doing Tongues to eat cold. 

Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, 
a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in 
fine powder, for a fortnight : then take away the pickle, 
put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some buttei 
an it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till 
so tender that a straw would go through it. 

The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates 
like hung beef, and almost makes a fine addition to the 
flavour of onilets. 

Beef-heart. 

Wash it carefully ; stuff as hare ; and serve with rich 
gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. 

Ha&h with the same, and port wine. 

Stewed Ox-cheek, plain. 

Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be 
eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with 
three quarts of water : simmer it after it has first boiled 
up and been well-skimmed. In two hours put plenty of 
carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice, 
Skim it often ; when the meat b tender, take it out; ' 



BEEF. 



43 



the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve 
the soup separate or with the meat. 

It should be of a fine brown : which may be done 
by burnt sugar ; or by frying some onions quite brown 
with flour, and simmering them with it. This last way 
improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the 
brown kind. 

If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may 
be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried 
and added. Celery is a great addition, and should aV- 
ways be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed 
of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled-in and strained 
off. 

To dress an Ox-cheek another tray. 
Soak half ahead three hours, and clean it with plenty 
of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a 
pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some 
bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. 

Lay the bones on the top ; pour on two or three quarts 
of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a 
dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in 
a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a 
hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a 
dean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat 
off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what 
vegetables you chooBe. 

if arrow-bones. 
Cover the top with floured cloth; boil them and serve 
with dry toast. 

Tripe 

May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion 
till tender. Melted butter for sauce. 

Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. 

Or stew the thin part, cut into bite, in gravy ; thicken 
with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. 

Or fricassee it with white sauce. 

Soused Tripe. 

Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into 
■alt and water, which must be changed every day till it is 



IJOMKHTIC COOKERY. 



all used. When you dress the tripe, d:p it into a bat- 
ter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. 

Ox-feet or Cow-heels 
may be dressed in various ways, and are very nutri- 
tious in all. 

Boil them ; and serve in a napkin, with melted but- 
ter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Or boil them very tender, and serve them as n brown 
fricassee: the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or re- 
lishing, and likewise to give richness to soups or gravies. 

Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, 
and then flour and fry them ; and fry onions (if you like 
the in) to serve round. Sauce as above. 

Or bake them as for mock-turtle. 

Bubtti and Squeak, 

Boil, chop, and fry it, with a little butter, pepper and 
salt, some cabbage, and lay on it slices of underdone 
beef, lightly fried. 

V£AL. 
To keep Veal. 

The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where 
the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be 
taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every 
day, by which means it will k ep good three or tour days 
in not weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs 
along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to 
hinder it from tainting. The skirt of the breast of veal is 
likewise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast 
wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with a little salt. 
Leg of Veal. 

Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the 
number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the 
space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite 
round ; and send the large side uppermost. When half- 
roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat ; and take 
care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good dis- 
tance from the fire, as the meat is very solid : serve with 
melted butter poured over it. — You may pot some of it. 



VEAL. 



I. J 



Knuckle of V tab 



As few people ate fond of boiled veal, it may be well 
to leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or 
collops before it be dressed; but as the knuckle will 
keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the 
slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take 
leas room ; wash it well ; and put it into a sauce-pan 
with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few 
pepper-corns ; cover it with water, and simmer till quite 
ready. In the mean time aonie macaroni should be 
boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, 
to give it a small degree of thickness ; but don't puttoo 
much. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and 
cream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. 

Or fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a 
good brown; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a 
cucumber or two, Btewed in a small quantity of water 
an hour : then add these to the veal ; and stew it till 
the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. 



serve all together. 

Shoulder of Veal, 

Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast the 
other part with stuffing: you may lard it. Serve with 
melted butter. 

The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, 
eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or 
mushroom -ketchup in butter. 



Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- 
sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley 
and butter may be served with it, instead of onion- 
sauce. 

Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, 
and pepper-corns, with a very little water. 
Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. 
The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, 



Throw i 




Neck of Feat. 



or made into pies. 



40 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Neck of Veal d-la-braise. 

Lard the beat end with bacon rolled in parsley chop- 
ped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it into a teaser, 
and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little 
lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of 
celery, and about a glass of'Madeira wine, Stewitquick 
two hours, or till it is tender, hut not too much. Strain 
off the liquor : mix a little flour and butter in a stew- 
pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side 
to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the are till it 
gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the 
liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze 
orange or lemon-juice into it. 

Breast of Veal. 

Before roaated, if large, the two ends may be taken 
off and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. 
Butter slmuli] be poured over it. 

If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put 
them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; or 
if you have no broth, a little water will do : add a bunch 
of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an 
anchovy ; Btew till the meat is tender, thicken with 
butter and flour, and add a little ketchup ; or the whole 
breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. 

Serve the sweetbread whole upon it : which may either 
be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, 
herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. 

If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, 
•tew them with it, and serve. 

Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, 
is an excellent dish, if not old nor too fat. 

To roll a Breast of VeaL 

Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat 
the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs 
diopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. 
Lay some thick slices of fine ham ; or roll into it two or 
three calveB* tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour 
or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and 
tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantity 



17 



of water till it is quite tender : this will take some 
hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight 
on it till quite cold. 

Pigs' or calves' feet, boiled and taken from the hones, 
may be put in or round it. The differ*nt colours laid 
in layers look well when cut ; and you may put in yolks 
of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped 
parsley, in different parts. 

Do another way. 

When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it 
the liquor; which must be boiled up twice a week, or 
it will not keep. 

Chump of Veal d-la-daube. 

Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the edge- 
bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it tip 
tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took 
out, a litde faggot of herbs, an anchovy, tw o blades of 
mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal- 
broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay 
a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, 
simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze 
the veal. — Serve it on mushrooms ; or with sorrel-sauce, 
or what else you please. 

Veal-rolls of either cold Afeat or fresh. 

Cut thin slices ; and spread on them a fine seasoning 
of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped 
ham, and a little Buet, parsley, and shalot, (or instead of 
the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed 
mid minced,) pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded 
mace. 

This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sausage, 
or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up 
very tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a 
glass of sherry. 

Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. 

Harrico of Veal. 
Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the bones 
short, but leave it whole : then put it intoa stew-pan just 

a 



48 



DOMESTIC COOKJJIIV. 



covered with brown gravy ; and when it ia nearly done, 
have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared 
and sliced, and two cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters, 
all stewed in a little good broth : put them to the veal, 
and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal ia 
in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and 
lay the lettuce with forcemeat-balls round it. 

A Dunetm of cold Veal or Fowl. 
Stew a few small mushroom in their own liquor and a 
bit of butter, a quarter of an hour ; mince them very 
small, and add them (with their liquor) tominced veal, 
with also a tittle pepper and salt, some cream, and a bit 
of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of flour. 
Simmer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets 
of bread. 

Minced VeaL 

Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it. — 
Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nut- 
meg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little 
weak broth, milk, or water ; simmer these gently with 
the meat, but take care not to let it boil ; and add a bit 
of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted 
bread, cut into a three-corned shape, round the dish. 
To pot VeaL 

Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal ; or you may 
do it as follows : 

Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, 
with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three clovea ; 
lay it close into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, 
fill it up with water, and bake it three hours ; then pound 
it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste ; put a 
little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be 
eaten soon ; otherwise only a little butter just melted. 
When doue, cover it over with butter. 

To pet Veal or Chicken with Ham. 

Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, seasoned as 
directed in the lastarticle, and putlayers of it with layers 



VEAL. 



49 



of ham pounded or rather shred ; press each down and 
cover with butter. 

Cutlets Maintentm. 
Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat 
em with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides 
ith egg : dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, 
parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a 
little nutmeg grated ; then put them into papers folded 
over, and broil them ; and have in a boat melted-butter, 
with a little mushroom-ketchup. 

Cutlets another way. 
Prepare as above, and fry them ; lay them into a 
dish, and keep them hot ; dredge a little flour, and put 
a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little 
boiling water into it, and boil quick : season with 
pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. 

Other way%. — Prepare as before, and dress the cut- 
lets in a Dutch-oven ; pour over them melted-butter 
and mushrooms. 

Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck- 
steaks. They are excellent without herbs. 

Vtai Collops. 

Cut long thin collops ; beat them well ; and lay on 
them a bit of thin bacon of the same si2e, and spread 
forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little 
garlick and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the 
size of two fingers, but not more than two or three 
inches long ; put a very small skewer to fasten each 
firmly ; rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and 
pour a rich brown gravy over. 

To dress Collops qu ick. 

Cut them as thin as paper with a very Bharp knife, 
and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of 
the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and 
salt ; set them on the fire while you beat the collops ; 
and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, 
salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. 
Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give the 



so 



DOMESTIC COOKKltY 



collops a very quick fry ; for as they are so thin, two 
minutes will do them on both sides : put them into a 
hot dish before the fire; then strain and thicken the 
gravy, give it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over 
the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement. 

Another way. — Fry them in butter, only seasoned 
with salt and pepper ; then simmer them in gravy, either 
white or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. 

If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. 
Scallops of cold Veal or Chicken. 

Mince the meat extremely small ; and set it over the 
fire with a scrape of nutmeg, h little pepper and salt, 
and a little cream, for a few minutes j then put it into 
the scnllop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, 
over which put some bits of butter, and brown them 
before the fire. 

Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared 
in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread 
fried ; or these may be put on in little heaps. 

Fricandeau of Veal* 

Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about 
nine inches long and half as thick and broad ; beat it 
with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the 
rough edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it 
with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into 
the stew-pan with any piecesof undressed veal or mutton, 
four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, 
lour blades of mace, four bay-leuvea, a pint of good 
veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean 
hum or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stow 
slowly three hours ; then take up the meat, remove all 
the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. 
Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and 
serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and 
r wrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. 

A cheaper, but equally good, Fricandeau of VtaL 

With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck 
•rom the best end, scooping it from the bones the length 



VEAL. 51 

of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the 
last receipt : three or four bones only will be necessary, 
and they will mate the gravy ; but if the prime part of 
the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. 

Fricandeau another way. — Take two large round 
eweetbreats, and prepare them as you would veal; 
make a rich gravy with truffles, morels, mushrooms, 
and artichoke-bottoms, and serve it round. 

Veal Olives. 

Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin 
slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat 
seasoned high, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. 
Boll them tight, about the size of 2 fingers, but not more 
than 2 or 3 inches long ; fasten them round with a small 
skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. 
Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mush- 
rooms pickled or fresh. Garnish with halls fried. 

Feal Cake. 

Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and 
lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot : shake in 
a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, 
add then eggs again ; shaking in after each some ehonped 
parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then 
put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an 
ounce of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and 
bake it about an hour. Then press it close togethe r 
with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. 

It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will 
turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. 

feat Samagen. 
Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a 
handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few an- 
chovies. Beat all in a mortar ; and when used roll and 
fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vege- 
tables, or on white collops. 

Scotch' Collops. ' 
Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over. Mid 



52 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

rather round ; beat with a rolling pin, and grate a little 
nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk of an egg ; and fry 
them in a little butter of a fine brown: pour the butter 
off: and have ready warm to pour upon them half a 
pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little 
flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of cream, andi 
bit of suit. Don't boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine 
thickness to serve with thecollops. 

To boit Calf a Hend. 

Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may 
look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, and the 
brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely 
tender; then stew it over with crumba and chopped 
parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one 
side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. 

The brains must he boiled ; and tben mixed with 
melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. 

If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, 
and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. 

Cold calf's head eats well if grilled. 

To heuth Calf s Head. 
When half-boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an 
inch thick, and two 'or three inches long: brown some 
butler, flour, and sliced onion, and ihrow in the slices 
w ith some good gravy, truffles, and morels ; giveitone 
boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to sim- 
mer till very tender. Season wilh pepper, salt, and 
Cayenne, at first ; and ten minutes before serving, throw 
in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of taragon 
and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible ; juBt 
before yon serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Force- 
meat-balls, and bits of liacon rolled round. 

*4woMfr nwy.--Boil the head almost enough, and take 
(he meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp 
knife ; lay ttiis into a small dish, wash it over with the 
yolks of two eggB, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs 
riicely shred, a little pepper and wilt, and a grate of nut- 
meg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the 



VEAL, 



S3 



fire ; and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of 
the head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice 
the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel 
the tongue : put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with 
an onion, aamall bunch of herbs (consisting of parsley, 
basil, savoury, taragon, knotted marjoram, and a little 
thyme,) a little salt and Cayenne, a shalot, a glass of 
sherry, and a little oyster-liquor. Boil this for a few 
minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be 
dredged with some fiour. Add some mushrooms either 
fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two 
spoonfuls of ketchup ; then beat up half the brains, and 
put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. 
Simmer the whole. 

Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon- 
peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and 
an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow- 
brown. Dip some oysters into the yoke of an egg, and 
do the same ; and also some relishing forcemeat-balls 
made as for mock turtle. Garnish with these, and small 
bits of bacon just made hot before the fire. 
Calf's Head fricasseed. 

Clean and half-boil half a head ■ cut the meat into 
small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy 
made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If 
you have any young cockrels in the house, use the 
cockscombs ; but first bod them tender, and blanch 
them ; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the 
gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down 
some flour and butter, and give all aboil together ; then 
take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of 
cream, bi t don't boil it in. 

Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. 
To collar Calfs Head. 

Scald the skin off a-fi ne head, clean it nicely, and take 
out the brains. Boil it tender enough tc remove the 
bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped 
parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed 



51 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



well ; season it high with these ; lay the parsley in a 
thick layer T then a quantity of thick slices of line ham, 
or a beautiful-coloured tonyue skinned, and then the 
yolks of 6 nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. 
Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you 
can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A clo " 
ust be put under the tape, as for other collars. 
Mock Turtle. 

Bespeak a calf's head with the skin on, cut it in half, 
and clean it well ; then half boil it, take all the meat o 
in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil 
them in some veal and beefbroth to add to the richness. 
Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge-in flour enough 
to thicken the gravy : stir this into ihe browning, and 
give it one or two boils ; skin it carefully, and then put 
in the bead ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and 
simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes 
before you serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, 
parsley, Cayenne pepper, and salt, to your taste ; also 
two spoonfuls of nuishronra-ketehup, and one of soy. 
Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour 
the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. 

A cheaper way. — Prepare half a calf's head, without 
the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the 
bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy 
made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned w ith fried 
onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or 
three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut 
into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into 
pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, 
flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it ; then add the 
meats as above, and stew. Haifa pint of sherry, an an- 
chovy, two spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, the same u 
mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbB as belbre. 
Balls, fitc. 

Another. — Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine 
cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of 
allspice, mace, and sweet herbs': cover them with water, 
tnen tie a thick paper over the pan, and set t in an over 



VEAI. 



55 



for three hoxirs. When cold, take off the fat very 
nicely i cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half 
square, remove the bones and coarse parts ; and then 
put the rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut 
and one of mushroom-ketchup, half a pint of sherry or 
Madeira wine, a little mushroom powder, and the jelly 
of the meat. When hot, if it wants any more seasoning, 
add some ; and serve with hard eggs, forcemeat-balls, 
a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. 

This is a very easy way, and the dish is excellent. 
Another. — Stew a pound and a half of scrag of mutton, 
with from three pints of water to a quart ; then set the 
broth on, with a calf s-foot and a cow-heel, cover the 
stew-pan tight, and simmer till you can cut off the meat 
from the bones in proper bits. Set it on again with the 
broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine or sherry, a 
large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit 
of lemon-peel, 2 anchovies, Borne sweet herbs, eighteen 
oysters cut into pieces, and then chopped fine, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, and the liquor of the 
oysters ; cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of 
an hour. Serve with forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs in 
the tureen. An excellent and very cheap mock turtle 
may be made of two or three cow-heels baked with two 
.pounds and a half of gravy-beef, herbs, fitc, as above 
with cow-heels and veal. 

Calf's Liter. 

Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boil nicely : 
rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. 
Catfs Liver roasted. 
Wash and wipe it ; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff 
it with crumbs ofbread, chopped anchovy, herbs, agood 
deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper,^ bit ol butter, and 
an egg : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a 
veal-cawl, and roast it. 

Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. 

To dress the Liver and Lights. 
Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them i» 



5fi 



DOMESTIC COOKKRT , 



middling-sized mince, putto it a spoonful ortwooftbe 
water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and 
pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. 

Calf's Brains d fa Maitre d'l/Ctel. 

Take off all the fibre* and skins which hang about 
the brains, and soak them in several waters, then boil 
them in salt and water, with a piece of butter, arid a 
table-spoonful of vinegar; cut some thin slices of bread 
in the shape of scallop shells and fry them in butter, 
lay these in a dish, the brains divided in two, on them, 
and pour over a Maitre d*H6tel sauce (which see). A 
nice supper dish. 

Sweetbreads. 

Half boil them, and stew them in a white gravy : add 
cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. 

Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. 

Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, 
herbs, and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch oven. 
Serve with butter, and mushroom-ketchup or gravy. 

Srteeibreads roasted. — Parboil twn large ones; when 
cold, lard them with hacon, and roaBt them in a Dutch 
oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom-ketchup. 

Sweetbread Ragout. — Cut them about the size of a 
walnut, wash and dry them, and fry them of a tine brown ; 
pour to them a good gravy seasoned with salt, pepper, 
allspice, and either mushrooms, or mushroom-ketchup : 
strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You 
may add truffles, morels, and mushrooms. 

Kidney. 

Chop veal-kidney, and some of the fat ; likewise a 
little leek or onion, pepper, and salt ; roll it up with an 
egg into balls, and fry them. 

Calves heart, stuff and roast as a beef's hpart, or 
sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or 
kidney pudding. 

FORK, ScC. 

Bacon-hogs, and porkers, are differently cut up. 



PORK. a? 



Hogs are kept to a large size ; the chine (or back- 
bone) is cut down on each side, the whole length, and 
is a prime part either boiled or roasted. 

The suit's of the hog are made into bacon, and the in- 
side is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On 
each side there is a large spare-rib ; which is usually 
divided into two, one sweet-bone and a blade-bone. 
The bacon is the whole outsid e : and contains a fore 
leg, and a ham ; which last ia the hind-leg, but if left 
with the bacon is called a gammon. There are also 
griskins. Hog's lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. 

Pickle pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well 
as bacon. 

Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter 
and less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided 
into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or 
fore-leg. the fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and gris- 
kin. The hind has the leg and the loin. 

The feet of pork make various good dishes, and 
should be cut off before the legs are cured. Observe 
the same of the ears. 

The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the 
hair, and sometimes singed. The porker is always 
scalded. 

To roast a Leg of Pork. 

Choose a Bmall leg of fine young pork : cut a slit in 
the knuckle with a sharp knife ; and fill the space with 
sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. 
When half-done, score the skin in slices, but don't cut 
deeper than the outer rind. 

Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat 
with it. 

To boil a Leg of Pork. 
Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, 
weigh it ; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make 
it white ; allow a quaiter of an hour for every pound, 
and half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim 
it as soon as it boils, and frequently after. Allow water 
enough. Save some of it to make peas-soup. Some 



58 



DOMESTIC COOKEKY. 



1 >oil itin a very nice clnth. floured ; which gives a very 
delicate look. It should be small and of n fine grain. 

Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. 

Loin and Neck of Pork, 

Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at dis- 
tances of half an inch, with a sharp pen-knife. 

Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. 

Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a leg ; 
when very nice, they may be roasted. 

Rotted Neck of Pork. 

Bone it ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few 
crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries 
of allspice, over the inside; then roll the meat as tight 
as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance 
at first, 

Spring or Forehand of Pork, 
Cut out the hone ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage 
dried, over the inside ; but first warm a little butter to 
baste it, and then dour it : roll the pork tight, and tie 
it; then roast by a hanging jack. About two hours 
will do it. 

Spare-rib 

Should be basted wilh a very little butter and a little 
Hour, and then sprinkled wilh dried sage crumbled. 
Apple-sauce, and potatoes, for roasted pork. 

Pork Griskin 

Is usually very hard \ the best way to prevent this is, to 
put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let 
it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into 
a Dutch oven ; a very few minutes will do it. Remem- 
ber to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you 
put it to the fire. 

Blade-bone of Pork 
Is taken from the bacon-hog ; the less meat left on it in 
moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and when 
just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of but- 
ter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard : and serve it co- 
vered, quickly. This i i a Somersetshire dish. 



To dress Pork as Lamb. 
Kill a young pig of four or five months old ; cut up 
the fore-quarter for roasting as you do Iamb, and truss 
the shank close. The other parts will moke delicate 
pickled pork ; or steaks, pies, &c. 

Pork Steaks. 

Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling thick- 
ness ; pepper and broil them, turning them oiten ; when 
nearly done, put on salt, rub a Lit of butter over, and 
serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a lew at 
a time. 

To Pickle Pork. 

The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a 
pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. 

Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a 
pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a 
little common salt: sprinkle the pork with salt, and 
drain it twenty-four hours : then rub with the above ; 
pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the 
spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the 
pork, to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which 
the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue 
very fine for two years. 

Sausages. 

Chop tat and lean of pork together ; season it with 
sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three 
berries of allspice : half fill hogs' guts that have been 
soaked and made extremely clean : or the meat may bft 
kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; aud bo rolled 
and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. 
Serve on stewed red cabbage ; or mash potatoes put in 
a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the 
above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they 
are dressed, or they will burst. 

An excellent swf.sage to eat cold. 

Season tat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre* 
black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub 
into the meat : the sixth day cut it small ; and mix with 



DOMLSTIC COOKERY. 



it some shred shalut or garlick, as fine as possible. 
Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and 
soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing ; tie up 
the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but 
first wrap it in a told or two of old muslin. It must be 
high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others 
like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in d liferent 
places, so as to make each link about eight or nine 
inches long, 

Spadburi/s Oxford Sausages. 

Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of 
veal, cleared of skin and sinnews; and three quarters 
of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them; steep the 
crumb of a penny-loaf in water, and mix it with the 
meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. 
To scald a Sacking Pig. 

The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water 
for a few minutes ; then rub it over with a little reain 
beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of icald- 
ing water half a minute : take it out, lay it on a table, 
and pull of the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part 
does not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, 
wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three 
cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. 
Take off all the feet at the first joint ; make a slit down 
the belly, and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart, 
and lights to the feet. Wasb the pig well in cold water, 
dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it 
from the air. 

To roast a Suckitig Pig. 

If you can get it when just killed, this is of great ad- 
vantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually 
do ; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and 
pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to 
skewer the legs back or the under part will not crisp. 

Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry ; then have 
ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with 
it in every part. Dredge as much flour over aa will 



PORK, 



1 



possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; 
then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt 
kniie, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off 
the head while at the fire ; take out the brains, and mix 
them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then 
take it up; and without withdrawing the spit, cut it 
down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop 
the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix 
them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has 
very little flour, rut the sauce into the dish after the 
pig has been split down the back, and garnished with 
the ears and the two jaws ; take off the upper part of 
the head down to the snout. 

In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the 
head only being cut off, to garnish as above. 

Pettitoes. 

Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quantity 
of water, very gently ; then cut the meat fine, and sim- 
mer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the 
feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper ; 
give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and 
put the feet on the mince. 

To make excellent Meat of a Nog's Head. 

Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, 
and sprinkle it with common salt for a day ; then drain 
it : salt it well with common salt and saltpetre three days, 
then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water 
for two days. Wash it, and boil till all the bones will 
come out ; remove them, and chop the head as quick as 
possible ; but first skin the tongue, and take toe skin 
carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season 
with pepper, salt and a little mace or allspice-berries. 
Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and 
put the other skin over j press it down. When cold, k 
will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you 
may put a few biti of lean pork to be prepared the same 



01 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



way. Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some 
of the liquor for a pickle to keep it. 

To roast Porker's Head. 
Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread 
and sn ge as for pig ; sew it up tight, and on a string or 
hanging jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same 
■auce. 

To prepare Pig's Cheek for boiling. 

Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, and 
take out the eyeB and the brains ; sprinkle the head with 
salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with 
common salt and saltpetre : let it lie eight or ten days if 
to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to 
be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and 
then simmered till all is tender. 

To collar Pig's Head. 

Scour the head and ears nicely ; take off the hair and 
snout, and take out the eyes and the brain ; lay it into 
water one night ; then drain, salt it extremely well with 
common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil 
it enough to take out the boneB ; then lay it on a dresser, 
turning the thick end of one side of the head towards tin; 
thin end of the other to make the roll of equal size ; 
sprinkleit well with salt and white pepper, and rollit with 
the ears ; and if you approve, put the pig's feet round the 
outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. 
Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till 
quite tender; then put a good weight upon it, and don't 
take off the covering till cold. 

If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, 
and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put 
in also some pieces of lean pork ; and then cover it with 
cow-heel, to look like the horn. 

This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and 
water boiled with vinegar; and is a very convenient 
thing to have in the house. 

If likely to spoil, Blict? and fry it either with or with- 
out batter. 



POUK. 



63 



To dry Hog's Cheeks. 
Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the 
head, taking off the upper bone, to make the cbawl a 
good shape : rub it well with salt ; next day take away 
the brine, and salt it again the following day : cover the 
head with half an ounce ofsalt-petre, two ounces of bay- 
salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse 
sugar. Let the head be often turned ; after ten days 
smoke it for a week like bacon. 

To force Hog's Ears. 
Parboil two pair of ears, or take some that have been 
soused ; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, pars- 
ley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, 
pepp°-, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the 
yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of the upper side of 
the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in 
fresh butter, of a fine colour ; then pour away the fat, 
and drain them : make ready half a pint of rich gravy, 
with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made 
mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion 
whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with 
the ears into a stew-pan, and cover it close ; stew it 
gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. When 
done enough, take out the onion, place the ears care- 
fully in a dise, and pour the sauce over them. If a 
larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be 
added to the above. 

Different ways of dressing Pig's Feet and Bars. 
Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them 
tender ; then take them out ; boil some vinegar and a 
little salt with some of the water, and when cold nut it 
over them, "When they are to be dressed, dry them, 
cut the feet in two, and .slice the ears ; fry, and serve 
with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be 
either done in batter, or only floured. 

Pig's Feet and Ears fricasseed. 
Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with 
cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil 



61 



DOMESTIC COOKEFlY. 



them in a little milk ; then ponr that from them, and 
simmer in a liitle veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, 
and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, 
flour, butter, and salt. 

Jelly of Pig's Feet and Bart. 

Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them 
in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be 
taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the 
same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and 
mace, in fine ponder; simmer till the herbs are scald- 
ed, then pour the whole into a melon-form. 

Pig's Harslet. 

Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and 
lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin 
make it tender; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a 
little onion shred line ; when mixed, put all into acawl, 
and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Roast 
it on a hanging jack, or by a string. 

Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. 

Serve with R sauce of port- wine and water, and 
mustard, just boiled up and put into the dish. 

Mock Brairu. 

Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender ; take the meat 
off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with 
common salt and saltpetre Ibra week. Boil this almost 
enough ; take out any bones, and roll the feet and the 
pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong 
tloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then 
hang it np in the cloth till cold; after which keep it in 
n sousing-liquor, as is directed in the next article. 
Smtse for firairn, and for Pig's Feet and Ears. 

Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of 
bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, 
with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain 
tt, and let it get cold. 

To via/ti' Black Puddings. 

The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a 
vuart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to 



PORE, 



65 



soak one night ; and soak the cnunl of a quartern loaf 
in rather more than two quarts of ne tv milk made hot. 
In the mean time prepare the guts by washing, turning, 
and scraping with suit and water, and changing the water 
several times. Chop fine a little winter- savoury and 
thyme, a good quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a 
few cloves, some allspice, ginger, andnutmeg: mix these 
with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten 
and strained ; nnd then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up 
with the seasoning: when well mixed, have ready some 
hogs' fat cut into large bits; and as you fill the skins, put 
it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled ; 
and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, 
Or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between 
clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. 
When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, 
wipe and put them into a Dutch oven. 

If there are not skuis enough, put the stuffiing into 
basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and 
slice and fry it when used. 

Another n-ny. — Soak all night a quart of bruised grits 
in as much boiling-hot milk as will swell them and leave 
half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny- 
royal, some savoury and thyme ; salt, pepper, and all- 
spice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of 
the blood, prepared rb before directed ; then half fill the 
Bkins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put 
as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig 
as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed, 
A small quantity of leeks finely shi ed and well mixed, 
is a great improvement. 

Another way. — Boil a quart of half-grits in as much 
milk as will swell them to the utmost ; then drain them 
and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound 
of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and lour cloves, 
all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog's leaf cut into 
dice, two lpeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, 
a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and 
knotted majormn, all minced fine ; eight eggs well 



DOMESTIC COOKKUY. 



beaten, half a pound of bread-crumbs that have been 
scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and Bult. Half fill 
the akin* ; which must first be cleaned with the greatest 
care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, 
and last in rose-water, Tie the skins in links, boil and 
prick them with a, ck'an Ibrk to prevent their bursting. 
Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. 

White Hctfx Pudding. 
When the skins have been soaked and cleaned as be- 
fore directed t rinse and soak them all night in rose-water, 
ami |ju t into them the following filling: Mix half a pound 
of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a 
pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a 
pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, 
and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and 
whites of two eggs, a little orange flower water, a little 
fine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron 
sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet 
enough, warm a little in apanikln. In boiling, much care 
must be taken to prevent the puddings from bursting. 
Prick them wiih a small fork as they rise, and boil them 
in milk and water. Lay them in a table-cloth till cold. 
Hog's Lard 

Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of 
water, and boi eil, run it into bladders that have been 
extremely well cleaned. The Bmallcr they are the bet- 
ter the lard keeps ; as after the air reaches it, it becomes 
rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. 

This being a most useful article for frying lish, it 
should be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it 
makes Que crust. 

To cure Hams. 
Hang them a day or two ; then sprinkle them with a 
little salt, and drain them another day ; pound an ounev 
and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, 
half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest 
sugar. Mix these well j and rub them into each ham 
every day for lour days, and turn it, If a small one, 



POKK 



67 



turn it every day for three weeks ; if a large one, a week 
longer ; but don't rub after four days. Before you dry 
it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. 

Another way, — Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and 
well-fed; bang it as above; if large, jjut to it a pound 
of bay-salt, four ounces of salt-petre, a pound of the 
coarsest sugar, and a handful of common suit, all in fine 
powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind down- 
wards, and cover the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it 
as often as you can with the pickle ; the more the bet- 
ter. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain 
it, and throw bran over it ; then hang it in a chimney 
where wood is burnt, and turn it sometimes for ten days. 

Another may — Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with 
salt as above ; then rub it every day with the following, 
in fine powder: half a pound of common salt, the same 
quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two 
ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half 
of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three 
weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe 
it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. 

Another way, that gives a high flavour. — When the 
weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an 
ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, 
the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse 
Bugar, and a quart of strong beer ; boil them together, 
and pour them immediately upon the ham ; turn it twice 
a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black 
pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine pow- 
der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. 
Cover it with bran when wiped : and smoke it from three 
to four weeks, as you approve; the latter will make it 
harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. 
Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to 
be smoked where there is a strong fire. 

A method of giving a still higher flavour. — Sprinkle 
the ham with salt, after it has bung two or three days; 
let it drain ; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half 
a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander seeds, two 



68 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



ounces of juniper-berries, an ounce of pepper, the same 
quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce 
of sal-prunel, a handful of common suit, and a head of 
shalot, all pounded or cut fine. Roil these all together 
a few minutes, and pour them over the ham : this quan- 
tity it for one of ten pounds. Rub and turn it every 
day, for a fortnight; then sew it up in a thin linen bag, 
and smoke it three weeks. Take care to drain it fro 
the pickle, and rub it in bran, before drying. 

To make a Pickle that wilt keep for year*, for Hams, 
Tongues, or Beef, if hailed and skinned between each 
parcel of them. 

To two gallons of spring.water put two pounds of 
coarse sugar, two pounds of bay and two pounds and a 
half of common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, ill a 
deep earthen glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and 
with a cover that will fit clnsu. Keep the beef or hams 
as long as they will bear, before you put them into the 
pickle ; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, 
from which they must drain. Rub the hams, &c. well 
with the pickle, and pack them in close; putting as 
much bs the pan will bold, so that the pickle may cover 
them. The ptckle ia not to be boiled at first. A small 
bam may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks ; a 
tongue twelve days, and beef in proportion to its size. 
They will eat well out of the pickle without drying. 
When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained 
over the pan; and when it will drop no longer, take a 
clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours 
will smoke them, and there should be only a little saw- 
dust and wet straw burnt to do this ; but if put into a 
baker's chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang 
them a Week. 

To dress ffams. 
Iflong hung, put the ham into water a night; and let 
it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones 
sprinkled with water, two or three days, to mellow ; 
covering it with a heavy tub, to keep vermin from it. 



IIUTTON*. fi9 

Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water ; 
let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the 
size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, 
cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish 
hot over boiling water. Take off the skin, and strew 
raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot. Preserve 
the skin as whole as possible, to keep over the ham 
when cold, which will prevent its drying. 

JExcellent Bacon. 

Divide the hog, and take the chine out : it is common 
to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be preserved 
better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the ba- 
con Bix days, then drain it from that first pickle : mix as 
much salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay- 
salt, three ounces of salt-petre, and a pound of coarse 
sugar, to each hog, but first cut off the hams. Rub 
the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. 
Drain, and smoke it a few days ; or dry without, by 
hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. 

The manner of curing Wiltshire Bacon. 

Sprinkle each flitch with Bait, and let the blood drain 
off for twenty-four hours : then mix a pound and a half 
of coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, not quite 
so much as half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of 
common salt; and rub this well on the bacon, turning 
it every day for a month : then hang it to dry, and 
afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts 
is sufficient for the whole hog. 

MUTTON. 

Observations on keeping and dressing Mutton. 

Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the 
inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great 
time, rub the part close round the tail with salt, after 
first cutting out the kernel. 

The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg 
should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first 
there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every 
day ; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to pre. 



70 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



serve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; ane 
it' it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, 
should the weather be hot. 

Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts ot 
meat as soon as brought in ; then wipe dry. 

For roaBting t it should hang as long as it will keep, 
the hind-quarter especially, but not so long as to taint ; 
fur whatever fashion may authorize, putrid juices ought 
not to be taken into the stomach. 

Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it 
has hung long, 

Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the 
l;it of what is roasted. 

Leg of Mutton. 

If roasted, serve with onion or currnnt-jelly sauce ; 
if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. 

Neck of Mutton 
Is particularly useful," as so many dishes may be made 
of it; but it is not advantageous for the family. The 
bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not 
do unless particularly desired. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served 
with turnips ; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, 
or harrico. 

The scrags maybe stewed in broth ; orwith a small 
quantity of water, some small onions, a few pepper* 
corns and a little rice, and served together. 

When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nic 
saw down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half-way down, 
and chop oil' the ends of the bones about four inches. 
The skin should not be taken off till boiled, and the 
the fat will look the whiter. 

When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutto 
than it is ngreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an 
ancommonly good suet-pudding, or crust for a meat-pie 
if cut very fine. 

Shauhlvr of Mutton roasted. 

Serve with onion sauce, The blade-bone may be 
broiled. 



To dress Haunch of Mutton. 
Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the 
different modes : let it be washed with warm milk and 
water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be dressed, 
obaerveto wash it well, lest the outside should have a 
bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour 
on strong paper, and fold the haunch in : set it at a 
great distance from the fire, and allow proportionable 
time for the paste ; don't take it off till about thirty-five 
or forty minutes before Berving, and then baste it conti- 
nually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you 
take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. 

A grav y must be made of a pound and a half of loin of 
old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no 
Beasoniugbut salt : brown it with alittle burnt sugar, and 
send it up in the dish; but there should be a good deal 
of gravy in the meat ; for though long at the fire, the 
distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. 
Serve with currant-jelly sauce. 

To roast a Saddle of Mutton. 
Let it be well kept first. Baise the skin, and then 
skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour be- 
fore serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and 
dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, and 
skewered back on each side. The joint may be large 
or small according to the company : it ib the most ele- 
gant if the latter. Being broad it requires a high and 
stroug fire. 

Fillet of Mutton braised. 
Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some 
paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for veni- 
son; roast it two hours. Don't let it be the least brown. 
Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on 
a sieve; and while the mutton is being glazed, give 
them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the dish 
with the meat over them. 

Harrieo. 

Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best 
end of the ueck into rather thiu steaks ; flour and dry 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not 
enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while you 
fry the carrots, turnips, and onions ; the carrots and tur- 
nips in dice, the onions sliced : but they must only be 
warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. Then 
lay the steaksat the bottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables 
over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just 
cover tbem; give one boil, skim well, and then set the 
pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. 
In three or (bur hours skim them ; and add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. 

To hanh Mutton. 

Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean ; flour 
them ; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three 
spoonfuls of water ; add to it a little gravy and the meat 
seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a 
covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of 
currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an 
agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. 

Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it 
for change. 

7*o boil Shoulder of Mutton wit ft Oysters. 

Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; 
bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace 
pounded : lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up 
tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, 
with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. 

Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters 
stewed in it; thicken this with flour arid butter, and pour 
over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stew- 
pan should be kept close covered. 

Breast of Mutton. 
Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the 
meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered 
with chopped parsley. Or hah* boil and then grill it be- 
fore the fire ; in which case cover it with crumbs and 
herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take 
off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, ln-tl>», 



AlUTTOJf. 

and seasoning ; then roll and boil ; and serve with 
chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. 

Loin of Mutton 
Boasted : if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it 
cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. 

To roll Loin of Mutton. • 
Hang the mutton till tender; bone it ; and lay a sea- 
soning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few 
cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare 
a Stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with 
the stufnug ; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half-bake it 
in a slow oven ; let it grow cold ; take off the fat, and 
put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put 
it in likewise ; Btew it till almost ready ; and add a glass 
of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little 
lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving ; serve it in 
the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mush- 
rooms are a great improvement ; but if to eat like hare 
do not use these, nor the lemon -pickle. 

Mutton Ham. 

Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton, of twelve 
or fourteen pound s weight ; let it be cut bam-shape, and 
hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan half a pound 
of bay -salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of 
saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all in pow- 
der; mix and make it quite hot; then rub it well into 
the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor every day ; at 
the end of four days put two ounces more of common 
salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up 
in wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with 
stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes or eggs. 

Mutton Gallops. 

Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and 
cut from the part next the leg, some collopB very thin. 
Take out the sinews. Season the collops with salt, pep- 
per, and mace ; and strew over them shred parsley, 
thyme, and two or three shalots : fry them in butter till 
half-done ; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of le- 



n 



DOMESTIC COOKKTIY. 



mon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour; and simmer 
the whole very gently live minutes. They should be 
served immediately, or they will be hard. 

Mutton Cutlet* in the Portuguese way. 
Cut the chops ; and half-fry them with sliced shnlot 
or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves ; season 
with pepper and salt : then lay a forcemeat on a piece 
of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper 
up, leaving a bole for the end of the bones to go through. 
liroil on a gentle lire. Serve with sauce liobart ; or, 
as the seasoning makes the cutletB high, a little gravy. 
Mutton Steak* 

Should be cut from a loin or steak that has hung ; if a 
neck the bones should not be long. They should be 
broiled on a clear tire, seasoned when half-done, and 
often turned ; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a 
bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the mo- 
ment they are done. 

Steaks of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cucumbers. 
Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, 
sprinkle them with salt and pour vinegar over them. 
Fry the chops of a fine brown, and put them intoa Btew- 
pan ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the steaks ; add 
some sliced onions, pepper, and salt ; pour hot water 
or weak broth on them ; stew and skim well. 

Mutton Steaks Maintenon. 
Half-fry, stew ihem while hot with herbs, crumbs, and 
seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish 
on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch: 
rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. 

Mutton Sausages. 
Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton 
that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it extremely 
small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nut' 
meg: add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, 
two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very 
small ; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of 
the anchovy -liquor, and the yolks and whites of two 



MUTTON. 



eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a 
little pot ; and use it by rolling it into balls or sausage- 
shape and frying. If approved, a little shalot may be 
added, or garlick, w hich is a great improvement. 

To dre,ts Mutton Rumps and Kidney. 
Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half an 
hour; then take them up, and let them stand to cool. 
Clear the gravy from the fat ; and put into it four ounces 
of boiled rice, and onion stuck with cloves, and q 
blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash 
the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten ; and strew 
over them crumbB of cread, a little pepper and salt, 
chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. 
Fry in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are 
stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a 
Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease 
must be drained before they are put on the dish, and 
the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the 
rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps put 
round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, 
and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard egga 
cut in half, the white being left on ; or with different 
coloured pickles. 

An excellent Jfotck Patch. 
Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, 
with a beef or ham-bone. While these are doing, fry 
some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : 
three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks 
into a stew-pan, and the Vegetables over them; stew 
them, and serve all together in a tureen. 

jinother, — Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, 
Stewed with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of 
butter rolled in flour. 

Mutton kebchbed. 
Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that nn 
the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it 
at every one : mix a small nutmeg grated with a little 
salt and pepper, crumbs, and heibs; dip the steaks into 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



o yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture 
all over them. Then place the steaks together as they 
were before they were cut asunder, tie them and fasten 
them on a smalt spit. Roast them at a quick fire ; set a 
dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter 
and the liquor that comes from the meat ; but throw some 
moreof the above seasoning over. When done enough, 
take it up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good 
gravy ready besides that in the dish ; and put into 
It two spoonfids of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful 
of flour with it ; give this a boil, and pour it over the 
mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep 
the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. 

China Chito. 

Mince a pint-bason of undressed neck of mutton, or 
leg, and- some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a 
pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful 
of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, and two or three 
ounces of clarified butter, intoa stew-pan closely cover- 
ed : simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish 
of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. 

LAMB. 

Leg of Lamb 

Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. 
The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished 
with dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or 
dressed separately, or roasted. 

Fore Qxtarter of Lamb. 

Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to 
be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. 
The neck and breast together is called a scoven. 
/irennf of Lamb and Cucumbers. 

Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on 
to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would 
draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill ; and then lay 
it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed, 

•Shoulder of Lam!>, forced, tn'th Sorrel-nance, 

Bone a shoulder of iamb, und fill it up with force- 



IAMB, 



77 



meat : braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it 
up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braized. 

The method for both, see page 84. Serve with 
sorrel-sauce under the lamb. 

Lamb Steaks. 

Fry them of a beautiful brown : when served, throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, 
and crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a 
fine colour will be given under the head of Vegetables. 

Mutton or Lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in but- 
tered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, 
are a genteel dish, and eat well. 

Sauce for them, called Sauce Robart, will be found 
in the list of Sauces. 

Hou se-Lamb Steaks white. 

Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a 
bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. 
Have ready Borne veal-gravy, and put the steaks into 
it ; mix some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and 
the least bit of flour ; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir 
it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, 
put in a few white mushrooms. This is a good substi- 
tute when poultry is very dear. 

Home-Lamb Steaks brown. 

Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon- 
peel, and chopped parsley; but dip them first into egg: 
fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of 
flour and butter ; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, 
and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the steaks 
warm : let them heat up, and serve. You may add 
palates, balls, or eggs, if yon like. 

Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. 

Cut the steaks from the loin, and fiy them : the 
spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and 
ihen the cutlets round it. 

Lamb's Head and Hinge. 

This partis best from a bouse -lamb ; but any, if soaked 
in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately 
till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three 



78 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a little of the 
water m which they were boiled, season and thicken 
with flour and butter, aud serve the mince round the 
head. 

Lamb's Fry. 

Serve it fried of a beatuifid colour, aud witn a good 
deal of dried or fried parsley over it. 

Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold 
water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a ladleful of 
broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small 
onionB, and a blade of mace ; stir in a bit of butter and 
fluur, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three 
eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley 
and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled 
asparagus-tops to the other things. Don't let it boil 
after the cream is in : but make it hut, and stir it well 
all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. 
Young French beans or peas may be added, lirst boiled 
of a beautiful colour. 

F ricatseed Lam bsioneis. 

Skin and wash, then dry and flour them ; fry of a beau- 
tiful brown, in hog's lard. Lay them ona sieve before 
the fire till you have made the following sauce : Thicken 
almost half a pint of veal-gravy with a bit of flour and 
butter, and then add to it a Blice of lemon, a large spoon- 
ful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful oflemon-pickle; 
a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well i$ 
two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the 
fire, and stir it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but 
don't let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, 
and shake it about near the fire toi a minute or two. 
Serve in a very hot dish and cover. 

F ricasxee of Lambstones and Sweetbreads, another tray. 

Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled, and 
sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads , if very thick, 
cut them in two. Fry all together, with a few large 
oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off ; and 
add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about an 



POUf.TRY. 



79 



inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots 
shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten mi- 
nutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn 
the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a tine 
thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. 
A very nice dish. 
Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, 
and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost 
round. Egg, and Btrew with crumbs, herbs, and season- 
ing; fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes 
with a little butter and cream, and put them into the 
middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge 
of one steak on another with the small bone upward, 
all round the potatoes. 

Pies of the different meats are directed under the 
general head of savoury pies, 

wit 

ant 



PART III. 

POULTRY, GAME, fee. 

To choose Poultry, Game, Sec. 
A Turkey-cock. — If young, it has a smooth black leg, 
with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, 
and the feet Bupple and moist. If stale, the eyes will 
be sunk, and the feet dry. 

Hen-turkey is known by the same rules; but if old, 
her legs will be red and tough. 

Fowls. — If a cock is young, his spurs will be short ; 
but take care to see they have not been cut or pared, 
which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will 
be close and dark. Pullets are best just before they 
begin to lay, and yet are full of egg ; if old hens, their 
combs and legs will be rough; if young, they will be 
smooth. Agood capon has a thick belly and large rump ; 
there isa particular fat at his breast, and the comb is very 
pale. Black legged fowls are moat moist, if lov roasting. 



paie. m 



80 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Geese.— -The bill and feet of a young one will be yel- 
low, and there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, 
they will be red : if fresh, the feet will be pliable ; if 
stale, dry and stiff. Geese are called green till three 
or four months old. Green geese should be scalded : 
a stubble-goose should be picked dry. 

Ducks. — Choose them by the same rules, of having 
supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the 
breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and 
inclining to dusky yellow; a wild one has the feet red- 
dish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked 
dry. Ducklings must be scalded. 

Pig/eons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby 
about the vent, and this partis discoloured, they are stale. 
The feet should be supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. 
The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought 
best by some persons ; they should be fat and tender ; but 
many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is 
as largo as the whole body of a small pigeon. 

The wood pigeon islarge, and the flesh dark coloured : 
if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is 
equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. 

P/ovrs— Choose those that feel hard at the vent, 
whichsh^- t^'yarefat. In other respects, choose them 
by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet 
are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are 
three sorts ; the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lap- 
wing. 

Hare or rabbit. — If the claws are blunt and rugged, 
the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old ; 
but if the claw s are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, 
and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. 
It' fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in 
hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by pro- 
per care ; and are best when rather beginningto turn, if 
the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a 
real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone 
near the foot on its fore leg ; if there is none it is a hare. 
Partridges. — They are in season in autumn. Ifyoung, 



POULTRY. 



81 



the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if 
fresh, the vent will be firm ; but this part will look 
greenish if stale. 

Pheasants.— -The cock-bird is accounted best, except 
when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt 
or round spurs ; but if old, they are long and sharp. 

Directions for dressing Poultry and Game. 

All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug 
removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. 

The cook must be careful in drawing poultry of all 
sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will 
take off the bitter where it has touched. 

In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a <elear brisk 
fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but 
leave the gravy in : the fine flavour is lost if done too 
much. 

Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in 
heating through than others. All sorts should be con- 
tinually basted ; that they may be served with a froth, 
and appear of a fine colour. 

A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour ; a 
middling one half an hour; and a very small one, or a 
chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick 
and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will 
take from half an hour to thirty-five minutes ; a goose an 
hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour: pheasants twenty 
minutes ; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter ; 
turkey-poults, twenty minutes ; grouse a quarter of an 
hour ; quails, ten minutes ; and partridges, from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, 
and the hind part requires most heat. 

Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turn- 
ing. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to : and 
the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to 
be done equally with the backs. 

POULTRY. 

To boil Turkey. 
Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, 
some suet, and an egg : put this into the crop, fasten up 
the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it 
very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with but- 
ter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved ; 
and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon-sauce. 
Hen birds are best for boiling, and should be young. 
To roast Turkey. 

The sinews of the legs should be drawn, whichever 
way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under 
the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the 
liver, nor let the gall touch it. 

Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or if sausages are to 
be served in the dish, a bread-stuffing. As this makes 
a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the 
heat of the fire is constantly to that part ; for the breast 
is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should 
be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorching while 
the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. 
Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread- 
sauce in a sauce tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a 
beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. 

Pulled Turkey. 

Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of 
cutting; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white 
gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt and a 
little flour and butter ; don't boil it. The leg should 
be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish 
with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. 
To boil Fowl. 

For boiling, choose those that are not black-legg* d. 
p ick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour 
them, and put them into boiling water. — See time of 
dressing, page 81. 

Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, 
or celery sauce. 

If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served 
with them ; as likewise greens. 



Ptntp IX. 



Goose. 




Wuudvock or Snipe. Pigeon. 



PkfWmi or Partridge. 




Hare or Rabbit iruued far Roattivg. 




llurv or RtMiifar R„a«fiug or B>,iUinj. 




FOUI.TRT. 



To boil Fowl with Rice. 
Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton-broth 
well skimmed ; and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, 
and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put m a 
quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer 
till tender ; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice 
on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the 
middle of the dish, and the rice round it without the 
broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but 
the less liquor the fowl is done with the better. 
Gravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. 

Fowls roasted. 

Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with 
sausages and scalded parsley. 

A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed 
ii the crop with Bausage-meat, and served with gravy 
in the dish, and with bread-Bauce. 
The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. 

Fowls broiled. 

Split them down the back ; pepper, salt, and broil. 
Serve with mushroom-sauce. 

Another way . — Cut a large fowl into four quarters, 
put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit ; and 
half-roast ; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either 
on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if 
wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, 
must be split down the back after. 

Davenport Fowls. 
Hang young fowls a night : take the livers, hearts, 
and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, 
with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each 
fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, 
with pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the 
fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite 
close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt 
and water till almost done : then drain them, and put 
them into a stew-pan with butter enough to brown 



tn 



Ml 



DOMMIP COOKERY. 



them. Serve them with fine melted butter, and ■ 
Bpoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish. 
A nice imy to drew a Fowl for n smnlt tlixh. 
Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl : make a force- 
meat of four ouncesof veal, two ounces of scraped lean of 
liain, two ounces of fat hncon, two html yolksnf egg*, a 
few sweet herbs chopped , (wo ounces of beef suet, n tea- 
apaonl'ul of lemon-peel minced quite flue, nn iMfkOVJ, 
salt, pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat all in a 
mortar, with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and 
whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and 
ilraw the legs and wing inwards ; tie the neck and rump 
close. Stew the low I in a white gravy : when it is done 
through and tender, add a large cupful of cream, and 
a bit of butter and flour; give it one boil, and serve-, 
the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. 

To force FawL, tire. 
Is lo stuff any part with forcemeat, and it is put 
usually between the skin and flesh. 

To braise, 

Is to put meat into a stew-pan covered , with fat bacon : 
then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if 
to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat 
01 fowls, and sonic stock (which you will find among 
Soups and Gravis), The bacon must he covered w ith a 
paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. 
Set it on a slow stove ; and according to what it is, it will 
require twoor three hours. The meat is then to be taken 
out : and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and Bet on to 
boil vert/ quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept 
hot ; and if larded, nut into the oven for a few minutes : 
and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, 
and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. 
White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze 
should be of a beautiful clear yellow brown, and it ic 
best to put it on with a nice brush. 

Fricassee 0/ Chickens. 
Uoil rather more than half, in a small quantity o£ 



POULTRY. 



83 



water: let them coal; then cut up; and put to simmer 
in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, 
and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon, 
peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sw eet herbf). 
When quite tender, keep them hot while you thicken the 
sauce in the following manner : Strain it off, and put it 
back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape ol nut- 
meg, and a bit of flour and butter : give it one boil ; and 
when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, 
add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, but 
don't let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg 
The gravy may be made (without any other meat) oJ 
the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; 
which are called the trimmings of the fowls. 

To pull Chickens. 

Take off the skin ; and pull the flesh off the bone of 
a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can ; dredge it 
with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain 
the butter from it ; and then simmer the flesh in a good 
gravy well- seasoned, and thickened with a little flom 
and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. 

Anothermay. — Cutoff the legs, and the whole back, nl 
a dressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all thf 
white part into little flakes free from skin ; toss itup with 
a little cream thickened with a piece of butter m txed with 
flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, 
and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the 
chicken : and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, 
and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the mid- 
dle, with the back on it ; and the two legs at the end. 
Chicken Carrie. 

Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and fry both * 
butter with great care, of a fine light brown ; or if you 
use chickens that have been*ipessed, fry oidy the on ions. 
Lay the jointB, cut into two or three pieces each, into a 
stew-pan : with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or 
two of garlick . Simmer till the chicken is quite tender, 
Hall* an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

or two of currie-powder, a Bpoouful of flour, and an 
ounce of butter ; anil add this, with four large spoon- 
fuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. Hlten 
nerving , squeeze in a little lemon. 

Slices of under-done veal, or rabbit, turkey, kc, make 
excellent enrrie. ~ 

A dish of rice boiled dry must he served. For direc- 
tions to do this, see the article Rice in the Indtx, 

Another, more easily made. — Cut up a chicken or 
young rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each 
piece in amixture of a large spoonful of flour,and half an 
ounce of currie-po wder. Slice two or three onions ; and 
fry them in butter, of a light brown.- then add the meat, 
and fry all together till the meat begins to brown. Put it 
all into a stew-pan, and pour boiling water enough just to 
cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too 
thick, put more water half an hour before serving. 

If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth wilt 
be better than writer : but the currie is richer when made 
Of fresh meat. 

To braixe Chicleent, 

Bone them, and fill them with forcemeat. Lay the 
bonea, an d any oth e r poul t ry trimmings, in to a ste w • pan , 
and the chickens on them. Put to tbem a few onions, u 
faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a 
glassor two of sherry. Cover the chickens with sliceso 
bacon, and then white paper ; cover the whole close, 
and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then 
take them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat 
carefully : set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do 
the chickens over with it with a brush. 

Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before 
glazing, put the chicken into an oven for a few minutes, 
to give a little colour. 

Ducks roasted. 
Serve with a fine gravy: and stuff one with sage 
and onion, a desert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, 
and pepper and salt j let the other be unseasoned. 



POULTIIV. 



S7 



To bait Ducks. 
Choose a fine fat duck ; salt it two days, then boil 
it slowly in a cloth- Serve it with onion-sauce, but 
melt the butter with milk instead of water. 

To stew Ducks. 
Half-roastaduck ; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of 
beef-gravy, a lew leaves ofaage and mint cut small, pep- 
er and salt, and asmall bit of onion shred as hue as possib- 
le. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean : then 
add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer 
near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of butter and 
a little flour, and give it one boil ; then serve in one dish. 
. To hash Ducks. 

Cut a cold duck into joints ; and warm it, witho 
boiling in gravy, and a glass of port wine. 

To roast Goose, 
After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, 
and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and 
dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pep- 
per and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, 
and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, 
and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should 
be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it very well. 
"When the breast is rising, take off the paper ; and be 
careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be 
spoiled by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy 
be sent in the dish, — Gravy and apple-sauce: goose- 
berry suuce lbr a green goose. 

To stew Gibleis, 
Do them as will be directed for giblet-pie (under the 
head Pies) • season them with salt and pepper, and a 
very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them 
one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter 
rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. 

Pigeons 

May be dressed in so many ways, that they are very 
useful. The good flavour of them depends very 
much on their being cropped and drawn as soon aa 
killed. No other bird requires so much washing. 



noMESTIC COOKKHt . 



jelly. Before the rest of it begin to set, pour it over the 
birds, so as to he three inches above the feet. This 
should be done full twenty-four houre belbre serving. 

This dish has a very handsome appearance in the 
middle range of a second course; or when served with 
the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner thing, 
its size being then less. The head should be kept up 
as if nlive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the 
legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. 

To pot Pigeon*. 

Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and 
Reason them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a 
small deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the 
closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. 
Cover ihem with butter, then with very thick paper tied 
down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into 
pots that will hold 2 or 3 in each; and pour butter 
over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe 
that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they 
are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in 
an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and re- 
qui re less butter. They may be Btuffed with a fine force- 
meat made with veal, bacon, 8tc. and then they will eat 
excellently. If a high flavour ic approved of, add 
mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. 
Larks, and other small Birds. 

Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on 
another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, 
and strew bread-crumbs upon them till half-done; 
brown and serve with fried crumbs round. 

GAME, ETC. 
To keep Game, fyc. 
Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has 
been kept a very long time ; for when it seems to be 
spoiled it may often be made fit for eating, by nicely 
cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. Ifthere 
is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick 
them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them 



GAME, LTC, 



! I 



with salt. Have ready a large sauce-pan of boiling water, 
and plunge them into it one by one; drawing them vn 
and down by the legs, that the water may pass through 
them. Let them stay five or six minutes in ; then hung 
them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and 
salt the insides wefl. Before roasting, wash them well. 

The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be pre- 
served thus. Those that live by suction cannot be 
done this way, as they are never drawn ; and per- 
haps the heat might make them worse, as the water 
could not pass through them ; but they bear being high. 

Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will 
preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. 
Pheasants and Partridges. 
Roast them as turkey : and serve with a fine gravy 
(into which put a very small bit of garlick), and bread- 
sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent 
patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by 
lemon. For the manner of trussing a pheasant or 
partridge, see plate IX- 

To pot Partridge. 
Clean them nicely; and season with mace, allspice, 
white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every 
part well; then lay the breasts downwards in a pan, 
and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put 
:i goud deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with 
a coarse flour-paste and a paper over, tie it close, and 
bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover 
them with butter. 

A very cheap way of potting Birds. 
Prepare them as directed in the last receipt ; and 
when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper 
pieces for helping, pack them close into a large potting- 
pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the 
butter. Cover them with butter, and one-third part 
less will be wanted than when the birds are done 
whole. — The butter that has covered potted things 
will >erve ibr basting, or for paste lor meat pies. 



DOMESTIC COOKEHY. 



To clarify Butter far potted Thing** 
Put it into a Bauce-boat, and set that over the fire 
in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, 
take care not to pour the milky parts over thr potted 
things : they will sink to the bottom. 

To pot Moor Gam*. 
Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely; then dry 
them ; and season, inside and out, pretty high, with 
pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in 
as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, 
and bake in a very slow oven. When cold, take off the 
butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into 
each pot, which Bhonld just fit. Add a* much more 
butter as will cover them, but take care that it d<Mi9 
not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a 
bason set in a bowl of hut water. 

Grouse. 

lloast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted 
under the wing. They must nut be overdone. Serve 
with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce, The 
sauce lor wild fowl, as will be described hereafter under 
the head of Sauces, may be used instead of common 
gravy. 

To roast Wild Fowl. 

The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put 
pepper, salt, and a piece of butter, into each. 

Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they 
should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. 
A rich brown gravy should he sent in the dish ; and when 
the hre.ist is cut iuto slices, before taking off the bone, 
a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great 
improvement to the flavour, 

To take off the fishy taate which wild fowl sometimes 
have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping, 
pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this ; 
then take away thepan, and baste constantly with butter 

Wild Duck*, Teale, Widgeon, Dun-bird*, {?c. 
Should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with 



wn 
Bo" 



GAME, ETC. 93 

butteT, and sprinkle n. little salt before they are taken 
up ; put a gmxl gravy under them, and serve with 
shalot-Bauce in a boat. 

fVoodcocks, Snipes, and Quails, 
Keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, 
and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with 
them, as gravy takes off from the fine flavour. The 
thigh and back are esteemed the most. Fur the maimer 
of trussing a woodcock or snipe, see plate IX. 

Rujf's and Reeves 
Are skewered as quails ; put bars of bacon over them, 
and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good 
gravy in the dish. 

To dress Plovers. 
Boast the green ones in the same way as woodcocks 
and quails (see above), without drawing j and serve on 
a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted orBtewed 
with gravy herbs, and spice. 

Placers' Eggs, are a nice and fashionable dish, 
il them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on 
a napkin. 

To roast Ortolans. 
Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a bird- 
spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices 
tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour 
of the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. 

Guinea and Pea Fowl 
Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way 
(see poye 91.) 

Hares, 

If properly taken care of, will keep a great time : and 
even when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in 
the highest perfection ; which if eaten when fresh-killed 
they are not. As they are usually paunched in the 
field, the CiMjk cannot prevent this; but the hare keeps 
longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or 
five days, or according to the weather. 

If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in, It should le 



If pa 



JH DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

wiped quitt dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the 
liver scalded to keepfor the stuffing. Repeat this wiping 
every dav ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the in- 
side; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply 
the spice curly to prevent that musty taste which long 
keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects 
the stuffing. An old hare should he kept us lung as 
possible ; it to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. 

To roast If are. 

After it is skinned, let it be extremclv woll washed, 
and then soaked an hour or two in watt r : and if old 
lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting 
it lie in vinegar. It' however it is put into vinegar, it 
should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. 
Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then 
sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half-done, and 
afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the 
neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it 
to the fire warm, will remove it ; especially if you also 
nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let 
it nut. The hare should be kept at a distance from 
the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, 
mebed butter, and currant-jelly sauce ; the gravy m 
the dish. For stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some 
fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a 
little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. 
The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They 
are reckoned a dainty. 

For the manner of trussing a hare, see plate IX. 

To jug an old J fare. 
After cleaning and skinning, cut it up ; and season it 
with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little 
nutmeg. Put it into ajar with an onion, a clove or two, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the 
carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder^ 
and leather or strong paper ; and put it into a sauce-pan 
of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the water 
bailing five hours. When it is to be served, boil the 



GAM K, kc. 



05 



gravy up wi th a piece of butter and flour ; and if the 
meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to boil. 
Broiled and hanked Hare. 
The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine: thelegj 
or wings must be seasoned first j rub with cold butter, 
and serve very hot.- — The other parts, warmed with 
gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately. 
To pot If are, 

For which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and 
pie.— AfteT seasoning it, bake it with butter. "When cold 
take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. 
If not high enough add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece 
of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of 
the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed 
put it into small pots, and cover with butter. The legs 
and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to 
keep them moist, and the boneB be put over them. 
Rabbits 

May be eaten various ways, as follows : 

Boasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare : or with 
out stuffing; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped 
in melted butter, pepper, and salt ; or larded. For the 
manner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boil- 
ing, see p late IX. 

Boiled, and smothered with onion-sauce ; the butter 
to be melted with milk instead of water. 

Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The 
same liver-sauce, this way also. 

Fricasseed, as before directed(inpage84) for chickens. 

In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, 8tc. In this 
way they are excellent when young. 

Potted. 

To make a Rabbit taste much (ike Hare. 
Choose one that is young, but full-grown : hang it in 
the skin 3 or 4 days ; then skin it, and lay it, without 
washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in 
a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same 
quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hour*, 



m 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



then Btuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the sam 
sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. 
To pot Rabbits, 
Cut up two or three young hut full-grown ones, and 
take the leg-bones off at the thigh; pack them as closely 
as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with 
pepper, mace, Cayenne, Bait, and allspice, all in very 
fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. 
Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the 
meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, aud 
bake the whole gently. Keep it two days iu the pan, 
then shift it into Braall pots, adding butter. The livers 
also should be added, as they eat well. 

To blanch Rabbit, Fowl, fyc. 
Is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold watei 
and let it boil, as soon as it boils it is to be taken out 
and put into cold water for a few minute b. 



PART TV. 

SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 
General Direction* respecting Soups and Gravies, 

When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoiit 
Defore it be wanted, season well and fry it lightly, 
which will preserve it two days longer ; but the gravy 
is best when the juices are fresh. 

When soups or gravies are to be put by let them be 
changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has 
vegetables boded in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the 
juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c. in metal, 

When fat remains on any soup a tea-cupful of flour and 
water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it off. 

If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good 
lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the 
soup, will give either of these qualities. 

Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of 
the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for 
soups and gravies ; and they are best if made the day 
before they are wanted. 



SOUPS. 



97 



Soups and gravies are far better wh;n the meat is put 
at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, 
roots, &c. with butter, than when water is put to the meat 
at first; and the gravy that ib drawn from the meat 
should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. 
Do not UBe the sediment of gravieB, Bee. that have stood 
to be cold. When onions are strong boil a turnip with 
them, if for sauce ; this will make them mild. 

If soups or gravies are too weak do not cover them 
in boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. 

A clear jelly of Core-heels is very useful to keep in the 
house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. 

Truffles and morels thicken soups and sauces, and give 
them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, 
then simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them 
with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. 

soups, ice. 

Scotch Mutton Broth. 

Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off 
the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of 
water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then sim- 
mer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of 
the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in each), take 
some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: 
Bkim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every 
quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five 
carrotB, the Bame number of turnips, and three onions, 
all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to 
get quite tender : add four large spoonfuls of Scotch 
barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should 
stew three hours. Salt to taste, and Berve all together. 
Twenty minutes before serving put in some chopped 
parsley, It is an excellent winter dish. 

Vtsal Broth, 

Stew a small knuckle in abont three quarts of water, 
two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, 
till the liquor is half wasted awav 



DOMESTIC 00OKEBY. 



Colouring for Soups and Gravies. 
Put four ounces oflump sugar, a gill of water, and half 
an ounce of the finest butter in to a small tosser, and set it 
over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden Bpoon, till of a 
bright brown. Then arid half a pint of water; boil, skim, 
and when cold bottle and cork it close. Add to soup 
or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. 
Julienne Soup, 
Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them 
riband-like ; a few heads of celery, Boine leeks and 
onions, and cut them in lozenges, boil them till they 
are cooked, then put them into clear gravy soup. 
Brown thickening. — .V. B. You may in summer tiw 
add green peas, asparagus tops, French beans, soma 
Vttuce or sorrel. 

A clear broxcti Stock for Graci/soup or Gravy. 
Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, nil sliced, into 
astew-pan with two or three scraped carrots, twoouiuns, 
two turnips, two beads of celery sliced, and two quart* of 
water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it 
brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for 
soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy put 
some of the above cnluunng, and boil a few minutes. 
An excellent Soup. 
Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slice* of undressed 
gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of 
water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good 
beef-broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat 
is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, 
as will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. 
An excellent white Soup. 
Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cutting 
off as much meat as will make collops, twoor th ree shank- 
bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound 
of very tine undrestlean gammnn of bacon, with a Lunch 
of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three 
onions, three blades of mace, and a desert-spoonful of 



sours. 



09 



white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the 
meat falls quite to pieces. Next day take off the fat, 
clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce- 
pan of the nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it should be 
added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking 
in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thick- 
ening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the 
thickening, which is to he made as follows : — blanch 
a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them 
to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoon till of water 
to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of drest 
Veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white 
bread ; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of 
fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest 
powder. Boil it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of 
Boup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : 
this thickening is then tit tor putting to the rest, which 
should boil for half an hour afterwards. 

A plainer While Soup. 
Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small 
jtnuckleofveal, with seasoning as directed in the last ar- 
ticle; anil both served together, with the addition of a 
quarterof a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream, 
and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness. 
Oiblet Soup. 

Scald and clean three or lour sets of goose or duck gib- 
lets 5 set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, 
scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal ; an ox- 
tail, or some shanks of mutton; with three onions, alarge 
bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and 
a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and sim- 
mer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) 
are quite tender: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a 
pint of cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom-powder, 
and an ounce of butter mixed with a desert-spoonful of 
flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the gib- 
lets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two 
glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, 
and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. 



100 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Partridge Soup. 
Take two old partridges ; skin them ; ai d cut them into 
pieces, with three or tour slices of ham, a stick of celery, 
and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in but- 
ter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then 
put them into a stew-pan, with five pints of boiling water, 
n few pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and alittle 
salt. Stew it gently two hours ; then strain it through a 
sieve, and put it again into a stew pan, with some stewed 
celery and fried bread ; when it is near boiling, skim it, 
pour it into a tureen and serve it up hot 

Macaroni Snup, 

Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good 
stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into 
another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more 
stock, and boil it tillyoucau pulp all Lhc macaroni through 
a fine Bieve. Then add together that, the two liquors, a 
pint or more of cream boiling-hot, the macaroni that was 
first taken out, and hall' a pound of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with 
the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. 
A Pepper-pot, to le served in a Tureen. 

To three quarts of water put vegetables according to 
the season; m summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach; in 
winter, carrots, turnips, celery, and onionB in both. 
Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, 
or a fowl, and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts 
of water, till quite tender. 

On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, 
add a lobster, or crab, cleared from the bones. Seaso 
with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice shoul 
be put in with the meat. Some people choose very am 
Buet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, sk ' 
nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. 

Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and i 
understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, few 1 
vegetables, and pulse. 

Turnip Soup, 

Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that car. be 



soups. • ■ 101 

made into cutlets, 4cc. aud set the. remainder on to stew 
with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blad« of mace, and 
five pints of water ; cover it close ; and'let it do on a 
■low fire, four or five hours at least. Stratnnt, and set it 
by till next day ; then take the fat and sedbnejvfc from it, 
and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice-till tender, 
seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving; rub 
down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of goo'd-. 
cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a sfnarl 
roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve thfs. 
with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. 
Old-Peon Soup. 

Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, 
put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh waterentirely 
with roast-beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an 
anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole 
or split peas ; the smaller the quantity of water at first, 
the better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a 
cullender ; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that 
boiled the peas, with two carrots, a turnip, a leek, and 
a stick of celery cut into bits, to Btew till all is quite ten- 
der. The last requires less time ; an hour will do tor it. 

When ready put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint 
rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) Bait into the tureen, 
and pour the soup in. 

Green-Peas Soup. 

In shelling the peas, divide the old from the young; 
put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of wa- 
ter, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, 
pepper, aud salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas : and 
when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed 
them some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of 
the lettuces, the young peas, a handful of spinach cut 
small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and stew 
till quit soft. If the soup is too thin, or not rich enough, 
either of these faults may be removed by adding an 
ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or 
wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before 
Bervi ig boil some green mint shred fine in the soup. 



102 



DOMESTIC. COOKERY. 



When there is jjteftty "of vegetables, no meat is neces- 
sary ; but if meat-be -preferred, a pig's foot, or ham- 
bone, Sec. may be boiled with the old peas, which i» 
called the stock; * More butter than is mentioned above 
may be i,lsftyl"with advantage, if the soup is required to 
be very rleh. 

When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock 
may. be' made of the shells washed, and boiled till they 
>vffl pull with the above : mure thickening will then 
.be wanted. 

Gravy Soup. 

Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, and set 
it on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of 
sweet herbs, two large onionB sliced and fried a Jine 
brown (but not burnt), two blades of mure, three cloves, 
twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew 
till the soup is as rich as you choose ; then take out the 
meat, which will be fit tor the servants' table with a little 
of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat; which 
will serve for basting, or for common pio-crust. Have 
ready such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut car- 
rots, turnips, and celery, small, and simmer till toodel . 
some people do not Like them to be sent to table, on I) 
the flavour of them. Boil vermicelli a quarter of an 
hour; and add to it a large spoonful of soy, and one of 
mushroom-ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, 
put into the soup till moist through, and served in the 
tureen. 

Vegetable Soup. 
Pare and slice five or six cucumbers ; and add to these 
the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, 
two or three onionB, some pepper and salt, a pint and a 
half of youngpeas, and a little parsley. Put these, with 
half a pound of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew 
in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour ; 
then pour two quarts of boiling-water to the vegetables, 
and stew them two hours ; rub down a little Hour into 
a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest filleen or 
twenty minutes, and serve it. 



I 



SOUPB. 



103 



Another way. — Peel and slice six large onions, six 
potatoes, six carrots, and foor turnips ; fry them in half 
a pound of butter, and pour on them tour quarts of 
boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard 
as possible, but do not burn it ; put that, some celery, 
sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt to the above ; 
stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a 
coarse cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a 
little turnip, and add to your liking, and stew them 
tender in the soup. If approved you may add an 
anchovy, and a Bpoonful of ketchup. 

Carrol Soup. 

Put Bome beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor 
in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two 
large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a sauce- 
pan, and atew for three hours. Have ready six large 
carrots scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, 
and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair 
sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, 
which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden 
spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the 
day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only 
the red part of the carrot, aud not the yellow. 

Onion Soup. 

Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mut- 
ton put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- 
bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, 
first sliced and fried of a light brown, simmer three 
hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a 
little roll, or fried bread. 

Spinach Soap. 

Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, 
a head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and 
parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the 
■ize of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in 
which meat has been boiled ; stew till the vegetables are 
quite tender, work thein through a coarse cloth or sieve 
with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and 
liquor put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and 



104 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



boil all together. Have ready some suet-dumplinga, the 
size of a walnut ; and before you put the soup into th" 
tureen, put thern into it. The suet must not be shred 
too fine ; and take care that it is quite fresh. 

Scotch-Leek Soup. 
Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a 
stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leekB, and pepper 
and Bait; simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal 
with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the 
soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it Bimmer 
gently ; but take care that it does not burn to the bot- 
tom. 

Hare Soup. 

Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it 
into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, 
two or three shank-bones of mutton well-cleaned, a slice 
of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; pour on it two quarts of boiling water ; cover the 
iar into which you put these, with bladder and paper, 
and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare ia 
stewed to pieces ; strain off the liquor and give it one 
ooil, with an anchovy cut into pieces ; and add a spoon- 
Shi of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine force- 
meat-balls, fried of a good brown, should be served in 
the tureen. 

Ojy/iurnp Soup. 

Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger 
than a much larger quantity of meat w ithout these ; 
and form a very nourishing soup. 

Make it like gravy Boup, and give it what flavour or 
thickening you like. 

Hexsian Soup and Ragout. 

Clean the root of a neat's tongue very nicely, and hi 
an ox'b head, with salt and water, and soak them after- 
wards in water only. Then stew them in five or si 
quarts*of water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup stand 
to be cold; take off the fat, which will make good paste 
for hot meat-pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a 



SODPS. 



106 



pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve car- 
rots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer theni 
without the meat till the vegetables are done enough 
to pulp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup 
will then be about the thickness of cream. Season it 
with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and 
a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. If the peas are 
bad the soup may not be thick enough, then boil in it 
a slice of roll and put it through the cullender, or add 
a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. 

For the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the 
kernels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue 
into small thick pieceB. Hub these with some of the 
above seasoning as you put them into a quart of the 
liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vegetables 
were added, flour well, and simmer them till nicely 
tender. Then put a little mush room and wulniit-ketchup, 
a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of 
made mustard, and bod all up together before served. 
If for company small eggs and force-meat balls. 

This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout 
at a small expense, and they are not common. The 
other part will warm ibr the family. 

Soup d-ta-sap. 
Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef 
sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three 
ounces of rice in six pints of water to five, strain it 
through a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn 
it into a sauce-pau again with two heads of celery 
sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and 
when you serve add also fried bread. 

Portable Soup. 
Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of 
beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as 
will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, 
ut any sort of spice you like, and three laige onions, 
hen the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put it 



106 



IJOUESTIC COOKKHY. 



into a very cold place. When cold take off the cake of 
fat (which will make crusts for servants* pies), put the 
soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce-pan and set it on 
a pretty quick tire, but do not let it burn. It must boil 
fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight 
hours. Put it into a pan anil let it stand in a cold place 
a day, then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and 
set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove 
and let it boil, and be now mid then stirred, till the soup 
is thick and ropy, then it is enough. Pour it into the 
little round part at the bottom of cups or bosons turned 
upside down to form cake*, and when cold turn them 
out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. 
When they are to be used melt them in boiling water, 
utid if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, 
boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. 

This is very convenient in the country or at sea, 
where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this 
means a bason of soup may be made in five minutes. 
Soup maigrt. 

Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it 
round, arid throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake 
the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five 
heads of celery, two handluls of spinach, two cabbage- 
lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan 
well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, 
dome crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, 
three or four blades of mace, and il'you have any white 
beet leaves add a large spoonful of them cut small. 

Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in 
two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. 

Another. — J* lour and fry a quart of green peas, four 
onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a tur- 
nip, and a parsnip, then pour on them three quarts of 
water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through 
a sieve, then boil it iu the best of the celery cut thin. 
Stock for brotm or white Fish-Soups. 

Take a pound of skate, four or B vi» flounders, and two 
pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into 



SOUPS. 



pieces: cover them with water; and season .rem wiin 
mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head 
of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a hunch of sweet 
herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, 
and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, firBt 
fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It 
will not keep more than two or three days. 

Eel Soup. 

Take three pounds of small eels : put to them two 
quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, 
some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs : cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite 
broken ; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into 
dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot 
may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich as " 
made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, w ith 
a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great 
improvement. 

Skate Soup. 

Make it of the stock for fish-soup {as directed in the 
last page); with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a 
little before it is served. Then add half a pint of 
crenm, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, 
but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll 
made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the 
soup an hour. 

Excellent Lobster Soup. 
Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of 
6 small lobsters : take away the brown fhr, and the bag 
inthehead;beatthe fins, chine, and small claws, in amor- 
tar. Boil jt very gently in 2 quarts of water, with the 
crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two 
anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of le- 
mon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them 
all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a 
bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful 
of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails 
into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and 
soup, Serve with forcemeat-balls made of tile remain- 



DOMESTIC COOKEItY. 



der an the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumhii, 
and of egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a 
bit of flour, find heated in the soup. 

Crawfish or Prawn Soup. 
Boil six whitings, and a large eel, (or the eel and half 
a thomback, well cleaned,) with as much water as will 
cover them ; skim them clean, and put in w hole pepper, 
mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and 3 
cloves, Soil to a mash. Pick fifty crawfish, or a hun- 
dred prawns ; pound (he shells, and ■> litttf foUj bill 
first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and 
herbs : put this liqour over the shells in a sieve; then 

1>our the other soun, clear from the sediment. Chop a 
obster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef- 
gravy : add also the tails of the crawfish or the prawns, 
and some flour and butter; and Beason as may be 
liked, if not high enough. 

Oyster Soup, 

Take two quarts of fish-stock, as directed in page 
1 06 ; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part 
of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and pdd this to 
the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour ; then strain it 
off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, 
and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes: 
have rendy the yolks of 6 raw eggs well beaten, and 
add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the 
aide of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but don't let 
it boil. Serve altogether. 

Oyster Mouth Soup. 

Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, 3 
blades of mace, and black pepper. When strained 
pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, without the 
beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer 
gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. 

GRAVIES, 

General Direction* respecting Gravies. 
Gravy may. be made quite as good of the skirts of 



GRAVIES. 



109 



beef, and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared 
in the same way. 

An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to 
pieces, and prepared as other meat j and so will the 
shank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much 
he not wanted. 

The shank-boneB of mutton are a great improvement 
to the richness of gravy ; hut first soak them well, and 
scour them clean, 

Taragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and 
in high gravies is a great improvement ; but it Bhould 
be added only a short time before serving. 

To draw gravy tfwt wilt keep a week. 

Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without 
any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care 
it does not burn : let it stay till all the gravy that 
comes out of the meat is dried up into it again ; put 
as much water as will cover the meat, and let that 
stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of 
water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; 
simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. 
Don't take off the fat till going to he used. 

Clear Gravy. 

Slice beef thin • broil a part of it over a very clear 
quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but 
not to dress it : put that and the raw into a very nicely 
tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole 
black peppers, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs: cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and 
skim it well two or three times ; then cover it, and 
simmer till quite strong. 

Cullis, or brown Gravy. 

Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal 
as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veal with 
thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, 
two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades 
of mace, and three cloves. Cover the stew-pan, and 
set it over a slow fire ; but when the juiceB come out, let 



11U 



DOMESTIC COOKKRY. 



the fire be a little quicker. When the meat ta of a fine 
brown, fill the pan with good beef-broth, boil and skim 
it, then simmer an hour; add a little water, mixed 
with as much ilour as will make it properly thick ; boil 
it hcill' an hour, aud strain it. This will keep a week. 

Hechtutul, or white Snttce. 

Cut lean Veal into small slices, and the same quantity 
(if lean bacon or ham; put them into a stew-pan wilh a 
good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a tew 
mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay -leaf; fry 
the whole over a very slow fire, but not to brown it; 
thicken it with flour ; then put an equal quantity of good 
broth, and rich cream ; let it boil half an hour, and stir 
it oil the time ; strain it through a soup-strainer. 

A Graty, without Meat. 

Put a glags of Bmall beer, a glasn of water, some 
pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a nruised clove or two, 
and a spoonful of walnut-pickle, or mushroom ketchup, 
into a bason, Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece 
of Lutter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into 
a small tosBer with the onion, and simmer it covered 
twenty minutes. Strain it off lor use, aud when cold 
take off the fat. 

A rich Graiy. 

Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity 
wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of 
a light pale-brown, but don't on any account suffer 
them to get black : put them into a stew-pan, pour 
boiling water on the browning in the frying pan, boil 
it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a buncMof 
parsley, thyme, and Bavuury, a small bit of knotted 
marjoram, tbe same of taragon, Botne mace, berries of 
allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit 
of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have 
extracted all the juices of the meat ; and be sure to 
skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a 
hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. 



GRAVIES. 



Gravy far a Fowl when, there is no Meal to make it of. 
Wash the feet nicely , and cut them and the neck, 
small ; simmer them with a little bread browned ; a 
slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper 
and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a 
pint of water, till half- wasted. Take out the liver, 
bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it 
with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, and it will be very good. 

Veal Gravy. 

Make it as directed for Oullis, page ]09; but 
leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be 
drawn very slowly ; and if for white dishes, don't let 
the meat brown. 

Gravy to make Million tat like Venison. 

Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces 
(but first take out the bag from the entrails], and 
simmer with as much unseasoned meat gravy as yov 
will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. 

Strong Fish Gravy. 

Skin two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut and 
wash them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and 
put into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add 
a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of 
mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of 
lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of 
horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer; add a bit of 
butter and flour, and boil with the above. 

Savoury J eily, to put over Cold Piiis. 

Mftke it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of 
veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton ; or, if the 
pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks, and heads, 
added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing 
to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. 
Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of 
different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a 
small bit of lemon- peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica 
bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and 



112 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



three pints of water, in a Btew-pot that shuts very 
close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it 
simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and 
when cold takeoff the fat with a spoon first, and then, 
to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of 
cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not clear, 
bod it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, 
(but don't add the sediment), and j>our it through a 
nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped 
in boiling water, to prevent waste. 

Jelly, to cover cold Fish. 
Clean a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, 
with a calf's loot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse-radish, 
an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a 
niece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. 
Stew until it will jelly; strain it off; when cold remove 
every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, uud 
boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five 
eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without Stirling; 
and after a few minutes set it by to st;m<l ball' an hour, 
and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. 
Cover Lhe fish with it when cold. 



PART V. 
SAUCES, &c. 
A very good Sauce, especial/;/ tn hide the bad Colour of 
Fowls. 

Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded pars, 
ley and bard eggs: add salt, and mix them with but- 
ter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. 

This will do for roast rabbit. 
White Sauce for Fricassee of Fowh, Rabbits, Wliite Meat, 
Fish, or "Vegetables. 

It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite 
sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but BinalL 
The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit ; or a 
little broth, that may be in the house ; or the feet ami 
necks of chicken, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. 
Stew with a little water any of these, with a bit oflemon- 



SAUCES, 



113 



el, some sliced onion, some white peppercorns, a 
ittle pounded mace, or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet 
erbs, until the flavour be good, then atrain it, and add 
a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour : 
salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added 
after the sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. 
Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but if you have 
any cream it is better ; and the former is apt to curdle. 
Sauce for Wild Fowl. 
Simmer a tea-cupful of port w ine, the same quantity 
of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, 
salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten 
minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all 
one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general 
they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so if liked. 
Another for the same, or for Ducks. 
Serve a rich gravy in the dish : cut the breast into 
slices, but don't take them off; cut a lemon, and put 
pepper and salt on it ; then squeeze it on the breast, 
and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. 
An excellent Sauce for Carp, or boiled Turkey. 
Hub half a pouud of butter with a tea-spoonful of 
flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a 
quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy 
chopped fine, not washed : set it over the fire; and as 
it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy- If 
that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. 
Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and 
half a lemon : stir it well to hinder it from curdling. 
Sauce for Fowl of any sort. 
Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a 
Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of 
port wine as of gravy : pour it into the dish, or a boat. 
Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. 
Bub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled 
hard, an anchovy, two desert-spoonfuls of oil, three of 
vinegar, a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea- 
spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before 



OOMESTTC COOKKKY. 



the oil is added. Then strain it, ShaloUvinegar 
instead of shnlot, enta well. 

Sauce ii-ta-Ma\tre d 1 Hotel. 

Put ii piece of butter into a sauce-pan with some 
hashed pardey, some taragon leaves, one or two leaves 
of balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice ; mix 
the whole with a wooden spoon, until they are well 
incorporated. 

A very fine Mushroom Sauce, for Fowls or Rabbit ». 

Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub 
them with salt, to take oil* the tender skin. Put them 
Into a sauce-pan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a 
blade of mare, a pint of cream, and a good piece of 
butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them 
till dune; then pour it round the chickens, Sec. 
Garnish with lemon. — TF you cannot get fresh mush- 
rooms, use pickled ones done white, with a little 
mushroom powder with the cream, itc. 

Lemon while Sauce for boiled FowU. 

Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a 
pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, 
and ten white pepper-cornB. Simmer gently till it 
tastes well of the L inon : then strain it ; and thicken 
it with a quiirter of a pound of butter, and a desert- 
apoonfnl of flour rubbed in it. Bod it up ; then pour 
the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well 
Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white grn\y, 
quite hot, with the cream, but don't boil them 
together : add salL to your taste. 

Liter Sauce. 

Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it aa 
directed for lemon-sauce, poije 1 17, with a very little 
pepper and aalt, arid some parsley. 

Egg Sauce, 

Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces ; 
then put them to melted butter. 

Onion Sauce. 

Peel the onions, and boil them tender : Bqueeze the 



SAUCES. 



115 



water from them, then chop them and add them to hut- 
ter that has been melted rich and smooth, bb will be 
hereafter directed, hut with a little good milk instead of 
water; boil it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, 
partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. 
A turnip boiled with the onions makes them milder. 
Clear Sku!ot Sauce. 
Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled 
clear, and near half as much vinegar, season with 
pepper and salt : boil half an hour. 
To make Parsley Sauce ichen no Parstey-leaves are to 
be had. 

Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin 
and boil it ten minutes in some water. Use this 
water to melt the butter; and throw into it a litde 
boiled Bpinach minced, to look like parsley. 

Green Sauce, for green Geese, or Ducklings. 
Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a. glass of 
white wine, and somt; scalded gooseberries. Add 
sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. 

Bread Suuce. 

Boil a large onion, cut into lour, with some black 
peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour 
the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover 
it. In an hour put it into a sauce-pan, with a good 
piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the 
whole up together, and serve. 

Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. 

Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a 
sauce-pan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two 
eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it: squeeze 
in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a 
sieve. 

Sauce Jiolart, for Humps or Steaks. 
Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a sauce- 
pan, set it over the fire, and when browning, throw in a 
handful of sliced onions cut small ; fry them brown, but 
don't let them bum ; add half a spoonful of Hour, shake 



DO!\f KSTIC CO0KEIIV. 



the onions in it, and give it another fry : then pot font 
spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil 
it gently ten minutes; skim off the fat; add a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and 
the juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, and pour it round 
the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, 
and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. 

BerUon Sauce, for hat or raid roast lieef. 
Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, alittle 
made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and (bur 
large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. 

Sauce far Fish Pica, where Cream is not ordered. 
Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vine- 
gar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup; boil them 
up with an anchovy ; strain ; and pour it through ft 
funnel into the pte after it is baked. 

Anotfier. — Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up 
with three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of 
cream, and a bit of butter and flour. 

Tomata Sauce, for hot or cold Meat*. 
Put tomatas, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar ; 
and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they 
are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp ; 
and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and a few cloves of 
garlick pounded, which must both be proportioned to 
the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt 
to your taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne 
may be used instead of capsicum-vinegar. Keep the 
mixture in small wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, 
and in a dry cool place. 

Apple Sauce, for Goose and roast Pork. 
Pare, core, and slice, some apples ; and put them in 
a stone jar, into a Bauce-pan of water,or on a hot hearth. 
If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in 
to hinder them from burning. When they are done, 
bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of butter 
the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve 
it in a sauce-tureen. 



SAVC KS. 



117 



The old Curra?it Sauce for Venisot*. 

Boil an ounce of dried currants iti half a piut of 
water, a few minutes; then add a small tea-cupful of 
bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of poit wine, and a 
bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put 
them into melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it 
over boiled fowls. 

Carrier Sauce for Mutton. 

Chop six shalots fine; and boil ihem up with a gill 
of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and Bal 
Serve in a boat. 

Ham Sauce. 

When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat 
lean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part ; beat 
the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin ; 
put it into a sauce-pan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; 
set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will 
stick to the bottom. When it has been on sometime, 
put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, 
nd half a pint of beef-gravy ; cover it up, and let it 
stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of 
the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this ia an 
improvement to all gravies. 

A very fine Fish Sauce. 

Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port 
wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut-ket- 
chup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to 
them, a gill of walnut-pckle, the rind and juice of a 
large lemon, four or five shalots, some Cayenne to taste, 
three ounceB of scraped horse-radish, three blades of 
mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it 
all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put it into 
small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal 
the top. 

Another. — Chop twenty-four anchovies not washed, 
and ten Bhalots, and scrape three Bpoonfuls of horse- 



118 



DOMKSTtC COOKKKY. 



radish ; which, with ten blades of mace, twcl 
cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy -liquor, 
a quart of hock, or Hhenish wine, and a pint of water, 
hull to a quart: then strain off; and when cold, add 
then: hn rj • spoonfuls of walnut-kstchup, wad put lata 
small bottles well corked. 

Fish Sauce without Butter. 

Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and 
half a pint of water (which must not be hard), with art 
onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the following 
apices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, 
and half a tea-spixmful of black pepper. When the 
onion i* quite tender, chop it small with two anchovies, 
and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, 
with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have 
ready and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs j 
strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and 
when well mixed, set the sauce-pan over a gentle fire, 
keeping a bason in one band, into which toss the sauce 
to and fro, and shake the sauce-pan over the fire, that 
the eggs may not curdle. Don' t boll them, only let the 
sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness ot melted 
butter. 

Vith Same d-la-Craxter. 
Thicken a quarter ot a pound of butter with llour, 
and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best ancho- 
vies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, 
ibrty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small 
onions, a faggot of sweet herbs (namely, savoury, thyme, 
basil, and knotted marjoram), and a littlf parsley and 
sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pi.it of the 
best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. 
Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain i 
through a sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using 
it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. 

An excellent substitute for Caper Same. 
Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a had co- 
lour, cut, hut don'tekop it Jim ; put it to melted butter, 



SAUCES. 



119 



with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a desert-Bpoonfal of 
vinegar. Boil up and serve. 

Oyster Sauce, 

Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and hoil it 
with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel, la 
the mean time throw the oyBters into cold water, and 
drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a sauce- 
pan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a 
little milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a 
little flour with it. 

Set them over the fire, and stir all the time : and 
when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them 
off, and keep the sauce-pan near the fire, but not on it ; 
fur if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze 
a little lemon-juice, and serve. 

If lor company, a little cream is a great improvement. 
Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter 
accordingly. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Pound the spawn, and two anchovies j pour on them 
two spoonfuls of gravy; strain all into some butler 
melted, as will be hereafter directed : then put in the 
meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a 
squeeze of lemon. 

Another way, — Leave ernt the anchovies and gravy ; 
and do it as above, either with or without a little salt 
and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of 
the lobster and salt only. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

If the Bhrimps arc not picked at home, pour a little 
water over them to wash them : put them to butter 
melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add 
the juice of a lemon. 

Anchovy Sauce, 

Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put them 
to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water ; stir 
it over the fire till it bods once or twice. When the 



120 



DOMESTIC COOKBEY. 



anchovies are good, they will be dissolved ; and the 
colour will be better than by the usual way. 

To melt Butter, which ix rarely well done, though a very 
essential article. 

Hue in the prop or tion of a tea-spoon fnl of flour to 
four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it 
into a small sauce-pan, and two or three table-spnoti- 
fuls of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the 
time. Milk used instead of water, requires rather less 
butter, and looks whiter. 

Vingartt, for cold Fowl, or Meat. 

Chop mint, jmrslev, mid shalot, mix with salt, oil, 
and vinegar. Serve in a boat, 

Shalot Vinegar. 
Split six or eight slialots ; put them into a quart bot- 
tle, and till it up with vinegar, atop it, and in a month 
it will be fit for use, 

Cnmji fiufiirar. 

Slice a large head of garlick ; and put it into a wide- 
mouthed boille, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two 
tea-spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut-ketchup, four 
ancnovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough coch- 
ineal to give it the colour of lavender-drops. Let it 
stand six weeks • then strum off quite clear, and keep 
in small bottles sealed up. 

Sugar Vinegar, 

To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very 
coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put one 
quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, 
put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine 
days; then barrel, and set it in a place where the sun 
will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. 
Make it in March, it will be ready in six months. 

When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may be 
used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. 
Gooseberry Vinegar. 

Boil spring water ; and when cold, put to every three 
quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. 



Si V CBS. 



12 



Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often, then strain 
through a hair hag, and to each gallon of liquor add a 
pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and 
a toast and yeast: cover the bung-hule with a bit of 
slate, &c. as above. The greater quantity of sugar 
and fruit the stronger the vinegar. 

Cucumber Vinegar. 
Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers and put them 
in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large 
onions sliced, two or three Hhalots, a little garlick, two 
large spoonfuls of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, 
and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. After standing 
four days give the whole a boil, when cold, strain, and 
filter the liquor through paper. Keep in small hottles 
*o add to sallad, or eat with meat. 

ff'ive Vinegar. 

After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been 
strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hundred 
weight put fifteen gallons of water — set the cask, and 
put yeast, Sec. as before. 

As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and 
one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two 
might always be kept preparing, according to what 
suited. If the raisins of wine were ready, that kind 
might be made ; if a great plenty of gooseberries made 
them cheap, that sort ; or if neither, then the sugar 
vinegar — so that the cask may not be left empty, and 
grow musty. 

Nasturtiovs. for Capers. 
Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then 
pour boiling vinegar over them, and when culd, cover. 
They will not be fit to eat for Borne months, but are 
then finely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. 

To make Mustard. 
Mix the best Durham (lour of mustard by degrees with 
boiling water to a proper thiekness, nibbing it perfectly 
smooth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar cloBe 



122 



domkstic cooKtny. 



covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be 
used soon, which should he wiped daily round the edges, 
Another teay, for immediate use- 

Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be 
quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is umch 
softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep welt. 

The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is 
perhaps as cheap, being always ready ; and if the pots 
are returned, three-pence is allowed Ibr each. 

A tea-spoonful of sugar to hull a pint of mustard is 
a great improvement, and softens it. 

Kitchen Pepper. 

Mix in the finest powder one ounce of pinger; of 
cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, 
half an ounce each ; ten chives, and six ounces of Halt 
Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any 
brown sauces or soups. 

Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, 
goes much further than when UBed whole. It must be 
dried before pounded, and should be done in quanti- 
ties that may be wanted in three or lour months. 
Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should be 
kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. 
To dry Miixkronms. 

Wipe them clean, ami of the large take out the brown, 
and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a 
cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. 
When used simmer them in the gravy, and they will 
■well to near their former size: to simmer thorn in their 
own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, 
then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or 
not, as above, before made into powder. 

Tii- down with bladder, and keep in a dry pbiee, or 
in paper. 

Mushroom Powder. 
Wash halfa peck of'large mushrooms while quite fresh, 
and free them from grit and dirt with flannel, scrape out 
the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm- 



SAUCES. 



123 



eaten, put them into a stew-pan over the fire without 
water, with two large oniona, some cloves, a quarter of 
an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all 
in powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be 
dried up, but be careful they do not bum. Lay them on 
tins or sieves in a slow oveu till they are dry enough to 
beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, 
corked, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. — A 
tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup 
or gravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just be- 
fore serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. 

To choose Anchovies. 

They are preserved iu barrels, with bay salt : no 
other fish has the line flavour of the anchovy. The 
beat look red and mellow, and the hones moist and 
oily ; the flesh should be high flavour, the liquor 
reddish, and have a fine smell. 

Essence of Anchovies* 

Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and with- 
out the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained , 
add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water; boil 
gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes — 
when cold, strain and bottle it. 

To keep Anchovies when the liquor dries. 

Pour on them b eel-brine. 

To make Sprats laate like Anchovies. 

Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In 
twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash 
them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of 
bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of 
salprunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, all in 
the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of 
the fish, and pack them in two atone jars. Keep in a 
cold place, fastened down with a bladder. 

These are pleasant on bread and butter, but use the 
best for sauce. 

Forcemeat, 

Whether in the form of s tuffin g-baHa , or for patti e s , makes 



124 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour it 
imparts to whatsoeverdish it is added, if properly made. 

Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; 
but the following observations may be useful, and habit 
will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. 

At many tables, where every thing lese is well done, 
it is common to find very bad Bluffing. 

According to what it is wanted for, should be the se- 
lection from the Ibllo-viiig list, observing that of the 
most pungent articles, Isast must be used. No one fla- 
vour should predominate greatly ; yet, if several dishes 
be served the same day, there should be a marked va- 
riety in the taste of the forcemeat, as well as of the 
gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a 
knife, but not dry and heavy. 

Forcemeat Ingredients. 



Cold fowl or veal. 
•Scraped ham. 
Fat bacon. 
Beef-suet, 
Crumbs of bread. 
Parsley. 
White pepper. 
Salt. 
Nutmeg. 

Yolk and white of eggs 
well beaten, to bind 
the mixture. 



Oysters. 
Anchovy. 
Taragon. 
Savoury, 
l'ennyroyal. 
Knotted marjoram. 
Thynie. 
Basil. 

Yolks of hard eggB. 
Cayenne. 
Garlic. 
Shalot. 
Chives. 
Jamaica pepper ,in (inepow 
der, or twoorthree cloves. 
The first column contains the articles of which the 
forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour ; 
and to those, may be added some of the different in- 
gredients of the second column, to vary the taste. 
Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Meat. 
Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or 
fowl, some beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, some 



SAUCES. 



125 



parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded 
mate, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread 
crumbs. 

Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two 
eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties, the 
mixture as above . 

For cold savoury Pies. 

The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. 
The livers, (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls) mixed with 
fat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and seasoned as 
above, is excellent. 

For Hare, see to roast, page 94. 

Ditto, for baked Pike, page 14. 

Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 14 

Ditto, for Soles, page 16. 

Ditto, for Mackerel, page 13. 

Ditto, fo Fish Pie, page 128, 

Very fine Forcemeat^balls, for Fiifh Soups, or Fish Slewed, 
or maigre days. 

Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, 
half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk 
of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white 
pepper, with two table-spoonfuis of bread crumbs, one 
ditto of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and 
two eggs long beaten : make into balls, and fry of a 
fine brown in butter. 

Forcemaat ax for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol. 

A pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready dressed 
veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little 
shalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, penny- 
royal, parsley, and lemon, thyme finely shred ; beat as 
many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will 
make the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll intn 
small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in 
just as it boils up When of a light brown, take them 
out, and drain tlieni before the fire. If the suet be moist 
or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. 

Balls made this way are remarkably light ; but be- 



DOMESTIC COOKETIY. 



ing greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and 
egg"- 

Little Eggs for Turtle. 
Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make 
into a paste with the yolk, of a raw one, roll it into small 
bulls, and throw them into boiling water fortwo minutes 
to harden. 

ft naming, to colour and flavour made-dinke*. 
Beat to powder four ounces of double refined sugar, 
put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce 
of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and, 
when it begins to froth, hold it tip higher; whenofavery 
fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of 
port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring all the 
lime. Ptit to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and 
the same of black pepper, six cloves of shalotB peeled, 
three blades of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mush- 
room, and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, and the 
finely pared rind of a lemon; boil gently fifteen mi- 
nutes, pour it into a bason till col J, take off the scum, 
mid bottle for use. 

Ca##erot, or Rice Edging, for a Currie, or Frieantte. 
After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in 
water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash ; 
drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the 
height of two inches; smooth it with the back of a spoon, 
and wash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the 
nven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in 
the middle. 



PART VI. 

PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. 

SAVOURY PIES. 
( Fruit Pie* jeffl be placed under the head pastry. J 
Observations on Savoury Pies. 
There are few articles of cookery more generally 
liked than relishing pies, if properly made ; and they 



SAVOUftT PIES. 



127 



may be made bo of a great variety of things. Some are 
best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be 
no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If 
the pie is either made of meat that will take more dress- 
ing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the 
crust will allow ; or if it is to be aerved in an earthen pie- 
form ; observe the following preparation : 

Take three pounds ofthevetiny piece of beef (for in- 
stance) that has fat and lean ; wash it ; and season it with 
salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rub- 
bing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a 
stew-pot that will just hold it; put to ita piece of butter, 
of about the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite 
close ; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to 
shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, fbrce- 
jaeat, and eggs : and if it is in a diBh, put some gravy 
to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust, don't put 
the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly, as has been de- 
scribed in pages 1 1 1 and 1 12. Forcemeat may be put 
both under aud over the meat, if preferred to balls. 
Eel Pie, 

Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season 
with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some 
bits oi butter, and a little water; and cover it with 
paste. 

Cad Pie. 

Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it 
well one night • next day wash it ; season with pepper, 
salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, 
and put some butter on it, and a little good broth of 
any kind into the dish. 

Cover it with a crust; and when done, add a sauce of 
a spoonful of broth, a quarter of apiut of cream, a little 
flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and 
give it one boil. Oysters may be udded. 

Mackarcl will do well, but do not salt them till used. 

Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of 
oysters. 



128 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Sole Pie. 

Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close ; 
ason with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg 
d pounded mace, and put them m layers, with oysters. 
They eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones 
will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish 
the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonful* of broth, and 
some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a 
cupful of thick cream. 

Shrimp Pie, excellent. 
Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season 
them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two 
or three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then 
season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of 
the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp 
white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They 
do not take long baking. 

Lobster Pie. 

Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut 
them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, 
and lay in a small dish, put in then the meat of the claws, 
and that you have picked out of the body ; pick off the 
furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady ; the 
spawn, beat in a mortar ; likewise all the shells : set them 
on to stew with some water, two or three spoonfuls of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace ; alarge 
piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the 
goodness of the shells is obtained : give a boil or two, 
and pour into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, 
and put a paste over all ; bake slowly, but only till the 
jiKinte be done. 

A remarkable fine Fish Pie. 
Hon* two pounds of small eels; having cut the fins 
quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into 
the liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice 
of onion ; boil till quite rich, aud strain it. Make force- 
meat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, 
pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, 



SAVOURY PIES. 



129 



and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of 
sales, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the 
forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper: 
pour the gravy over and bake. 

Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. 
Pilchard and Leek Pie. 

Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; 
scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a 
dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pil- 
chards which have been soaked for some hours the day 
before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When 
the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with 
« knife, and empty out all the liquor ; then pour in 
half a pint of scalded cream. 

Beef-steak Jtye. 

Prepare the steaks as in page 37, and when seasoned 
and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with 
puff paste round the edges ; put a little water in the 
dish, and cover it with a good crust. 

Veal Pie, 

Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; 
season it ; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean 
bacon or ham. If it is wanted of ahigh relish, add mace, 
Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper; and also 
forcemeat and eggs ; and if you choose, add truffles, mo- 
rels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and 
cocks' -combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy 
ready, to pour in after baking. — It will be very good 
without any of the latter additions. 

A rich Veal Pie. 

Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal ; season them 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in pow- 
der. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same 
manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge ofthe dish ; then 
put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and 
some oysters up to the top of the di«h. Lay over the 
whole some very thin slices of ham, and nil up the dish 
with water; cover; and when it is taken outof the oven, 



130 



DOMESTIC C0OKKHY. 



pool in at the top, through a runnel, a few spoonfuls 
good veal-gravy, and some cream to fill up ; but lir 
boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, &tc 
if approved. 

Veal (air Chicken) and Parsley Pie. 

Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal ; if the leg, 
from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald 
some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze 
it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; 
then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish 
w ith new milk, but not bo high as to touch the crust. Co- 
ver it ; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, 
and pttf in half a pint of good scalded cream. 

Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the 
same way. 

Veal-alive Pie, 
Make the olives as directed in page 51 ; put them 
round Find round the dish, making the middle highest, 
"Yill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy 
iream, and flour. 

Calj"x-h*»d Pie. 
Stew a knuckle of veal I ill lit Ibr eating, with twft 
onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade 
«>f mace, and a few pepper-corns, in 3 pints of water. 
Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat 
for the balls, and let the itlhcr tie eaten, but simmer the 
bones in the broth till itis very good. Half-boil the head), 
and cut it in square bits; put a layer of ham at the tuft- 
torn ; then some head, first fat then lean, with balls and 
hard eg;;a cut in half, and soon till the dish be full : but be 
particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the 
pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the 
jelly. The meat, must be first pretty well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a 
little water and » little gruvy into the dish, and cover it 
with a tolerable thick crust ; bake it in a slow oven, and, 
when done,pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly 
hold , and do not cut it til] perfectly cold; in doing which, 
observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large 



SAVOURY PIES. 



131 



bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; and when 
done thus, thinner slices can be cut; the different co- 
lours, and the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled 
appearance. 

A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with 
high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles,* morels, 
Stc. has a very good appearance. 

The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a 
pretty side-dish. 

Instead of isinglass, use a calf's foot, or a cow-heel, 
if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. 

The pickled tongues of former calves'-heads may be 
cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. 

Excellent Pork Pie*, to eat cold. 
Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval 
form, asyou choose; have ready the trimming and small 
bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; and if these are 
not enough, take theraeatoff a sweet bone. Beat it well 
with a rolling-pin ; Beason with pepper and salt, and 
keep the fat and lean separate. Put it in layers, quite 
close up to the top : lay on the lid : cut the edge smooth 
round, and pinch it ; bake in a slow soaking oven, as 
the meat is very solid. Directions ibr raising the crust 
will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a 
common dish, with a very plain crust; and be quite as 
good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie ; 
the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are 
cut small and pressed c1obc 

Mutton Pie. 

Cut steaks from a lion or neck of mutton that has 
hung ; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Season 
with salt, pepper, and a little onion ; put a little water 
at the bottom of the dish, and a little paste at the edge ; 
then cover with a moderately thick paste. Or raise small 
pies, and breaking each bone in two to shorten it, sea- 
son, and cover it over, pinching the edge. When they 
come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of a 
t>it of mutton. 



132 



domestic cookebt. 



Squab Pie. 

Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rowa 
with mutton-chops : shred onion, and sprinkle it among 
them, and also some sugar. 

Lamb Pie, 

Make U of the loin, neck, or breast ; the breast of 
house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that can 
be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with 
pepper and salt ; the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; 
and a small quantity of jelly gravy be put in hot ; but 
the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls 
of water before baking. 

Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either 
be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhapB the 
best. Season with only pepper and salt ; put two 
spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gravy 
when it comes from the oven. 

Note. — Meat-pies being fat, it is best to let out the 
gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, 
the centre, and a little may be added. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pepper, 
salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; 
likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of 
ham, or fresh gammon of bacon,' lort'.rmt.'at-ball.s, and 
hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a 
dish, put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. 
By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy 
of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some shank- 
bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and 
white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add 
truffles, morels, mushrooms, &c. but not if to be eaten 
cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as 
will fill it ; but, in raised crust, the gravy must be 
nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly, To make 
the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites 
of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run 

through a fine lawn sieve. 



SAVOURY PIES 



133 



Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well : their 
legs should be cut short, and the breast-bones must no 
go in, but will help to make the gtavy. 

Green-goose Pie. 

Bone two young green geese, of a good size ; but first 
take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash 
them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, 
mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other ; and press 
them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put 
a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either 
with or without crust ; if the latter, a cover to the dish 
must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep lung. 
Duck Pie. 

Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl j w ash them, 
and seaBon with pepper and salt, and a small proportion 
of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put thefbwl 
witbintheduck,aodinthefbrmera calf s tongue pickled 
red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole 
close ; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, 
iliat the body of the fowls may be quite smooth, li 
approved, the space between the sides of the crust may 
be filled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the 
second receipt given for making forcemeat xtipage 125. 
Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie- 
dish with a thick crust, ornamented. 

The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above : 
but with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, 
then a fowl; and either tongue, small birds, or force- 
meat, in the middle. 

Giblet Pie. 

After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew 
them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them 
grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, 
veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the 
liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and when the 
pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. 
" potatoes added to it, eat extremely well. 





Hub the pigeons with pepperaod salt, inside and out; 
in the latter put a bit of butter, and, if approved, some 
parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same 
seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, 
and the birds on it ; between every two, a hard egg. 
Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any 
ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon ; it is a great 
improvement to the flavour. 

Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take 
the under part rather than the prime. 

Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wingi , 
and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over them, 
in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, 
to show what pie it is. 

Partridge Pit in a duh. 
Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the legs at 
the knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, 
thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal-steak, ana a slice 
of ham. at the bottom of the dish ; put die partridge in t 
and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on |he 
ledge of the dish, and cover with the same ; brush it 
over with egg, and bake an hour. 

Hare Pie, to eat cold. 
Season the hare after it is cut up; and bake it, with 
eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When 
it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly- 
gravy, as in jwge 111. 

A French Pie. 
Lay a puff-paste round on the ledge of the dish : and 
put in either veal in slices, rabbits or chickens jointed; 
with forcemeat-balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, arti- 
choke-bottoms, and a few truffles. 

Vegetable Pie. 
Scald and blanch some broad beans; cut young carrots, 
turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, pease, onions, 
lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have ; make 
the whole into a nice Btew, with some good veal-gravy. 



SAUCES. 



135 



Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the 
edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. 
When baked, open the lid, and pour in the stew. 
Parsley Pie. 

Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, sea- 
soned, into a dish; scald a colander-full of picked pars- 
ley in milk ; season it ; and add it to the iowl or meat, 
with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak 
gravy. When it is baked, pour it into a quarter of a 
pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of but- 
ter, and a bit of flour, Shake it round, to mix with 
the gravy already in. 

Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach may be 
added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. 
Turnip Pie. 

Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper, reserving 
the ends of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, 
which must be cut in to small dice, and put on the steaks. 

Put two or three good spoonfuls ofmilkin. You may 
add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. 

Potatue Pie. 

Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; season 
them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put 
layers of them and of the meat. 

An Herb Pie, 

Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, half 
the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard 
and cresses, a few leaves of burage, and white beet- 
leaves ; wash, and boil them a little ; then drain, and 
press out the water ; cut them small ; mix, and lay them 
in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a baiter of 
flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half 
a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs ; cover with a 
good crust and bake. 

Raised Crust for Meat-pies, or Fowls, JSrc 
Boil waterwith a little finelard,and an equal quantity 
of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. 
While hot, mix this with as much flout as you will want, 



136 



TIOME5TTC COOKERY. 



making the paste as stiffas you can to be smooth, which 
you will make it by good kneading and beatingit with the 
rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put in a lump into r 
cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. 

Those who have notagood hand at raisingcniBt may 
do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut 
out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for 
the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, 
bringingtheformerratherfurther out, and pinching boto 
together ; putegg between theedgesofthe paste, to make 
it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the 
cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The 
same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the 
sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must 
be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the 
latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully 
taken off when done enough ; and as the form usually 
makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the 
paste should be put into the oven again tor a quarter of 
an hour. With a feather, put egg over at first 

puddings, &c. 
Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes. 

The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagree- 
ably ; which arises from the cloth not beingnicely wash- 
ed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in 
boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. 

If bread, it should be tied loose ; if batter, tight over. 

The water should boil quick when the pudding is 
put in; and it should be moved aboutfor a minute, lest 
the ingredients should not mix. 

Batter-pudding Bhould be strained through a coarse 
sieve, when all in mixed. In others the eggs separately. 

The pans and basins must always be buttered. 

A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- 
ding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then 
it will not adhere to the cloth. 

Very good puddings may be made without eggs » but 
they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil 



purmiNGS. 



137 



three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small 
heer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. 

Or Snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, eitherin 
puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply 
the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be 
equally good. This is an useful piece of information, 
especially as snow often falls at the season when eggs are 
dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled maltliquors, like- 
wise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up 
from any clean spot belbreitis wanted, and willnotlose 
its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. 
JVotr. — The yolks and whites beaten long and separate- 
ly, make the article they are put into much lighter. 
Almond Puddings. 
Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds 
with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of but- 
ter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the 
butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to 
taste. HuUer some cups, halffill, and bake the puddings. 
Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. 

Baked Almond Pudding. 
Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter 
ditto, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two 
lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of 
cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake 
it half an hour, witb paste round the dish. 

Sinail Almond Puddings, 
Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with 
a spoonful of water; mixed with four oz. of butter warm- 
ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two 
spoonfula of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well, and 
bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding- sauce. 
Sago Pudding, 
Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls 
of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinna- 
on, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix four 
ggs, put a paste round the dish and bake slowly, 




DOMESTIC COOKKRV. 



Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish 
with currants between each layer ; and sliced citron* 
orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an un« 
boiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimen- 
tos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at least before 
it is to ht< baked ; and lade it over to soak the bread. 

A paste round the edge makes all puddings look 
better, but is not necessary. 

Orange Pudding. 

Grate the rind of a Sev die orange 5 put to it six ounces 
offresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pound, 
ed : beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do 
it the whole of 8 eggs well beaten and strained; scrape 
a raw apple, and mix with the reBt ; put a paste at the 
bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mix- 
ture put croBB bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. 

Anotlter. — Mix of orange paBte two full spoons, with 
ix eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and 
put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake 
twenty minutes. 

Anollter. — Bather more than two table-spoonfuls of 
the orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four ounces of 
sugar, and four ounces of butter, melted, will make a 

Sood sized pudding, with a paste at the bottom uf the 
ish. Bake twenty minutes. 

An excellent Lemon Pudding, 
Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four ounces of white 
sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps 
of it to take the essence ; then peel, and beat it in a 
mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with 
four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a 
shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into 
it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. 
A veryjiite Amber Pudding. 
Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, with three 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered ; melt 
the butter, and mix well with it • then add theyolks of 



PUDDINGS. 



fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied- 
Mange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first 
beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste tbr- 
turning out ; and when filled with the above, lay a crust 
over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. 
It is as good cold as hot. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 

Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them tender, 
with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when 
done, none may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mor- 
tar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of but- 
ter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, 
juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; beat all to* 
gether, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out. 

Oatmeal Pudding, 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best 
fine ontmeal ; let it soak all night ; next day beat two 
eggs, and mix a little salt; butter a bason that will just 
hold it ; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it 
an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. 

When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oaicake 
buttered. 

Dutch Pudding, or Sotitter. 

Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; mix 
it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonful 
of yeRBt ; add one pound of currants, and a quarter of 
a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. 

This is a very good pudding hot ; and equally so as 
a cake when cold. If for the latter, caraways may be 
used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a 
quick oven. 

A Dutch Rice Pudding. 

Soak four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour ; 
drain the latter from it, and throw it into a Btew-pan, 
with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and 
simmer till tender. When cold, add four whole eggs 
well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea- 



140 



nOMKSTIC COOKERV. 



cupfUl of cream ; and put three ounces of sugar, a 
quarter of n nutmeg, ana a good piece of lemon-peel. 

Put a light puff-paste into a mould or dish, or grated 
topi and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. 

Light or German Pudding* or Puffs. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let it 
stand till nearly cold ; then mix two ounces of fine 
flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two 
whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. 
Bake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. They should 
be served the moment they are done, and only when 
going to be eaten, or they will not be light. 

Turn out of the cups, and Berve with white wine 
and sugar. 

Liltte Bread Pudding*. 

Steep the crumb of a penny loaf grated, in about a 
pint of warm milk; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites 
and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of 
butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful 
of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of cream. 
Beat all well, and bake in tea-cups buttered. If cur- 
rants are chosen, a quarter of a pound is sufficient; if 
not, they are good without : or you may put orange or 
lemon candy. Serve with pudding-sauce, 

Puddings in haste. 

Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 
sui ne grated lemon- peel, and ginger. Mix ; and make 
into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, 
with a little flour. 

Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them 
in. Twenty minutes will boil them; but they will 
rise to the top when done. 

Pudding-sauce. 

N ew College Puddings, 
Grate the crumb of a twopenny loaf, shred suet eight 
ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of 



PDDDINGS. 141 

citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, 
half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white sepa- 
rately. Mix, and make into the size and shape of a 
goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter into a frying- 
pan; and, when melted and quite hot, stew them 
gently in it over a stove ; turn them two or three times 
fill of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with 
the batter. 

Serve with pudding-sauce. 

Bailed Bread Pudding* 
Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and 
cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it 
fine, and mix with it two or three eggs well beateu. 

Put it into a bason that will just hold it ; tie a floured 
doth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it 
up with melted butter poured over. 
It may be eaten with salt or sugar. 
Prunes, or French plumbs, make a fine pudding in- 
stead of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. 

Another, and, richer. — On half a pint of crumbs of 
bread pour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an 
hour. Beat up four eggs, and wheu strained, add to 
the bread, with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of 
butfer, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, 
an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-flower water, 
half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, ditto citron. 
Butter a bason that will exactly hold it, flour the 
cloth, and tie tight over, and boil one hour. 

Brown Bread Pudding. 
Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of 
currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg; mix 
with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- 
fuls of cream ; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly 
holds it three or four hours. 

Nelson Puddings. 
Put into a Dutch oven six small cakes called Nelson- 
balls, or rice-cakes made in small tea-cups. When 
quite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white 
wine, and sugar ; and serve. 



U2 



BoJIISTIC COOIUT, 



Ere'* Pudding. 

Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mis it with 
the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apple 
and also of currants ; mix with these the whole of I' 
eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it 
into a shape ; boil three hours ; and serve with pudding- 
sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. 
Quaking Pudding, 

Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold put to 
four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, 
some nutmegs and sugar ; tie it close in a buttered 
eloth ; boil it an hour ; and turn it out with care, lest it 
should crack. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. 
Duke of Cumberland** Pudding. 

Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity 
of currants well cleaned and picked, the same of T 
suet finelj shred, the same of chopped apples and all 
of lump-sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, 
the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; ana 
citron, orange, and lemon, a large spoonful oi' each cut 
thin. Mix thoroughly, and put into a basin ; cover 
very close with floured cloths, and boil three hours. 
Serve it with pudding-sauce, and the juice of half a 
lemon, boiled together. 

Transparent Pudding, 

Beat eight eggs very well ; put them into a stew-pan, 
with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quan- 
tity of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on " 
fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it 
into a basin to cool ; put a rich puff paste round the 
edge of the dish ; pour in your pudding, and bake it 
in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You 
may add candied orange and citron, if you like, 
Boiler Pudding. 

Hub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth 
by degrees into a pint of milk ; simmer till it thickens; 
stir in two ounces of butter ; set it to cool; then add the 
yolks of three eggs : flour a cloth that ha* been wet, or 



PUDDINGS. 



143 



butter a basin, and put the batter into it; tie if tight, 
and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. 
Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. 
If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel 
may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. 
Hatter Pudding with. Meat. 
Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs ; pour a 
little into the bottom of a pudding dish ; then put sea- 
soned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion ; 
pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a 
slow oven. 

Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being 
first cleared of most of the fat. 

Rice small Puddings. 

Wash two large spoonfiils of rice, and Bimmer it with 
half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg 
of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give 
it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites 
of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; and 
add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. 

Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting tit 
bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of 
an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before 
to be eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat. 
Plain Rice Pudding. 

Wash and pick some rice ; throw among it some pi- 
mento finely pounded, but not much ; tie the rice in a 
cloth, and leave plenty of room tor it to swell. Boil it 
in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When done, 
eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel 
if you please. 

It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt 
and butter. 

A rich Rice Pudding. 
Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of 
salt, till quite tender; drain it dry ; mix it -with the 
yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of 
cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the 



144 



D0MK5T1C COQKEKY. 



latter, four ounces of beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet 
taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, tbree quarters 
of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one 
jf peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon- 
peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, 
and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and 
citron, if approved. Dake in a moderate oven. 
/iice Puilding with Fruit. 
Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire ; 
then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, goose- 
berries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or 
black currants) ; with one egg into the rice, to bind it; 
boil it well, and serve with sugar. 

liaked Rice Pudding. 

Swell rice as above ; then add some more milk, an 
e $K> sugar, allspice, and lemou-peell. Bake in a deep 
dish. 

Another, for the Family. — Put into a very deep pan 
half a pound of rice, washed and picked ; two ounces 
of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, 
and two quarts of milk. Less butter wdl do, or some 
suet. Bake iu a slow oven. 

A George Pudding, 
Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a smal. 
quantity ot milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let 
it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, 
boiled to pulp as dry as possible ; add a glass of white 
wine, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of orange and 
citrou cut thin ; make it pretty sweet. Line a mold or 
with a very good paste; beat the five whites of 
le eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other 
ingredients ; fill the mold, and bake it of a fine brown 
colour. Serve it with the bottom upward with the 
following sauce : two glasses of wine, a spoonful of 
sugar, the yolk of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large 
as a walnut ; simmer without boiling, and pour to and 
from the sauce-pan, till of a proper thickness ; and put 
in the dish. 



I 



PUDDINGS. 



145 



An excellent plain Potatoe Pudding. 
Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of 
butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of 
a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of 
salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; 
sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. 
If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweet- 
meats and almonds, and another egg. 

Polatoe Puddiitg with Meat. 
Boil them till fit to mash ; rub through a colander, 
and make into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. 
Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter ; 
and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. 
Hake a fine brown. 

Steak or Kidney Pudding, 
If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the 
meat. Make a paste of Buet, Sour, and milk ; roll it, 
and line a basin witb some; put the kidney or steaks in, 
cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover 
with a cloth, and boil a considerable time. 

Beefsteak Pudding. 
Prepare some fine steaks as in page 37 ; roll them with 
fat between,- and if you approve shred onion, add a 
very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in 
the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and 
pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a 
cloth tied close ; and let the pudding boil slowly, but 
ibr a length of time. 

Baked Beef- steak Pudding, 
Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which 
is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a 
colander ; lav a little of it at the bottom of the dish , 
then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very wel* 
seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, 
and bake it. 

Mutton Pudding. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; lay one 
layer of steaks at the bottom of the dishj aud pour a 



140 



DOMESTIC COOXKRV. 



hatter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a coUi* 
der, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then 
puttiug the rest of the steaks, and hatter, Imke it 

Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, cats well, but 
requires more egg, and is not so good, 

Jinuthcr, — Cut slices off a leg that has been under- 
done, and put them into a basin lined with a line suet- 
crust. Season with pepper, salt ant) finely-shred onion 
or shalot. 

Suet Pudding. 

Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound and a quar- 
ter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and 
as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It 
eats well next day, cut in slices and broiled. 

The outward tat of loins or nocks of mutton finely 
shred, makes a more delicate pudding than BUet, 
Veal-suet Pudding. 

Cut the crumb of a threepenny loaf into Blices ; boil 
and sweeten two quarts of new milk, and pour over it, 
When soaked, pour out a little of the milk; and mix 
with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the 
slices of bread into a dish ; with layers of currants and 
veal-suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, 
and bake ; or you may boil it in a basin, if you prefer 
it. 

Hunter's Pudding. 

Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto 
raisins -stoned audabttle cut, the rind of half a lemon 
shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine 
powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and 
na little milk as will make it of a proper consistence; 
boil it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight 01 
nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes 
a Bpoonful of peach-water for change of flavour. 

This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, six months, 
if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded 
in a sheet of cap-paper to preverve it from dust, being 
first cold. When to be used, it must boil a full hour. 



PLDDIiSGS. 

Common Plum Pudding. 
The same proportions of flour, and suet, and half the 
quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or 
nnt, and one egg and milk, will makean excellent pud- 
ding, if long boiled. 

Custard Pudding. 
Mix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large spoon- 
fill of flour, the yolks of five egga, some orange-flower 
water, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin 
that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a 
floured cloth over. Put in boiling- water over the 
lire, and turn it about a few minutes to prevent the 
egg going to one side. Half an hour will Boil it. 
Put currant- jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Macaroni Pudding. 
Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort in a pint of 
milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender; 
put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs but 
only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach- 
water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a 
paste round the edges. 

A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, in 
a macaroni-pudding, for change, is a great improve- 
ment; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafia, 
which you would otherwise flavour it with. 

Millet Pudding. 
Wash three spoonfuls of the seed ; put it into the dish, 
with a crust round the edges ; pour over it as much new 
mUk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter, 
warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape 
of ginger and nutmeg. As you put it in the oven, stir 
in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. 
Carrot Pudding. 
Boil a large carrot tender; then bruise it in a marble 
mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powder, 
ox three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four 
yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either ran 
or scalded, a little ratafia, a large Bpoonful of orange 01 



118 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of 
sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste ; and 
turn it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted over. 
An excellent Apricot Pudding, 
Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they 
nre soft ; mean time pour on the grated crumbs of a 

1>enny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, 
bur ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and 
a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar 
with Borne or all of the kernels; mix then thefruitand 
other ingredients together ; put a paste round a dish, 
and bake the pudding half an hour. 

Baked Gooseberry Pudding. 
Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a 
sauce-pan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of 
the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it 
with three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strain- 
ed, one ounce and a half of butter; Bweetenit well, and 
put a crust round the dish. A few crumbs of roll should 
be mixed with the above to give a little consistence, or 
four ounces of Naples biscuits, 

A Green-bean Pudding. 
Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, 
with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the 
yolk of an egg. A little spinach-juice will give a finer 
colour, but it is as good without. Boil it in a baser: 
that will just hold it, an hour; and pour parsley and 
butter over. 

Serve bacon to eat with it. 

Shelford Pudding. 
Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, 
one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little 
good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a 
melon. shape six hours. 

Brandy Pudding, 
Lineamould with jar-raiBins stoned, or dried cherries, 
then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put 
ratafias, or macaroons ; then the fruit, rolls, and cakes 



PUDDINGS. 



in succession, until the mould be full ; sprinkling in at 
times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and 
whites; put to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweet- 
ened, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon finely 
grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part ; then 
flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil one hour ; keep 
the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding-Bauce. 
Buttermilk Pudding, 

Warm three quarts of new milk j turn it with a quar. 
of buttermilk ; drain the curd through a seive ; when 
dry pound it in a marble mortar, with near half a pound 
of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll 
grated, a nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces 
of warm butter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks 
of five and whites of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, 
and ditto of brandy. 

When well incorporated, bake in small cups or bowls 
well buttered ; if the bottom be not brown, use a sala- 
mander ; but serve as quick as possible, and with pud- 
ding sauce. 

Curd Puddings, or Puff's. 

Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey 
from it, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of 
butter, the crumb of a penny loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, 
and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two 
spoonfuls of white wine. Butter little cups, or Email 
pattypans, and fill them three parts. Orange-flower 
water is an improvement. Bake them with care. 

Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. 

Boiled Curd Pudding. 

Bub the curd of two gallons of milk when drained 
through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little cream, 
two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, 
flour and crumbs of bread each three spoonfuls, currants 
and raisins half a pound of each. Boil an hour in a 
thick well-floured cloth. 

Pippin Pudding, 

Coddle six pippins in vine-leaves covered with water, 
very gently, that the inside he done without breaking 



150 



I'OMEBTIC C00KEI1T. 



the skiiis. When soil, skin, and with a tea-spoon take 
the pulp from the core. PreBs it through a colander ; 
add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three egga 
heaten, a glass of raisin-wine, a pint of scalded cream, 
sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the 
bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin lemon - 
peel as fine as possible, and put it into the dish ; like- 
wise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not 
so thin as to dissolve in the baking. 

Yorkshire Pudding, 
Mix 5 spoonfuls of flour, with a quart of milk, and 
three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown 
by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, 
and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, 
and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a 
chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes, 
A quick-made Pudding. 
Flour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quar- 
ter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a 
quarter of a pound of raisinB, ditto of currants; mix 
well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover 
of the pot on, or it will require longer. 

Russian need, or ground Itice Pudding. 
Boil a large spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint of 
new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When 
cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. 
Bake with a crust round the dish. 

A ft'e/ch Pudding. 
Let I a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with 
it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, mix in si 
ounces of loaf Bugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. 
Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the 
above in, and nicely bake it. 

Oxford Dumptingx. 
Of gnited bread "l ounces, currants and shred sue 
four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a gre 
deal of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little 
pimento in fine powder. Mix wiih 2 eggs and a little 



PUDDINGS, &.C. 151 

milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. 
Made with flour instead of bread, but halfthe quantity, 
they are excellent. 
Serve with sweet sauce. 

Suet Dumplings. 
Make as pudding (page 146 ;} and drop into boiling 
water, or into the boiling of beef : or you may boil them 
in a cloth. 

Apple, Currant, or Darnxon Dumplings, or Pudding. 

Make as above, and line a basin with the paste to* 
lerhbly thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it ; tie a cloth 
over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. 

Yeast, or Suffolk Dumplings. 

Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, 
but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it 
rise an hour before the fire. 

Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready 
i large stew-pan of boiling water ; make the dough in- 
to balls, the size of a middling apple ; throw them in, 
*nd boil twenty minutes. If you doubt when done 
enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out 
dear, it is done. 

The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the 
top with two forks, for they become heavy by their 
awn steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and 
butter, or salt. 

A Charlotte. 

Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will 
cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, but 
first rub itthick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices, 
into the dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between, 
and bits of butter. In the mean time, soak as many 
thin slices of bread aB will cover the whole, in warm 
milk, over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the 
bread close on the apples. Bake slowly three hours. 
To a middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter in 
the whole. 



152 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Common Pancakes. 

Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in 
a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg, 
and ginger, may be added. 

Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. 
Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour, 
and small beer, ginger, Sec, or clean snow, with flour, 
and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. 
Fine Pancakes, fried without Jiu-tler or Lard. 

Beat six fresh eggs extremely well ; mix, when 
strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a 
glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour 
as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake 
batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably 
hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; then pour in the batter, 
to make thin pancakes. 

Pancake* of Itice. 

Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quan- 
tity of water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, 
eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg: Btir in eight ounces 
of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will 
make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or 
dripping as possible, 

Irish Pancakes. 

Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain 
them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste ; Bet three ounces of freBh butter on 
the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, 
which should be warm when the eggs are put to it : 
then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the 
pancakes very thin ; the first with a bit of butter, but 
not the others. 

Serve several, on one another. 

New-England Pancakes. 
Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven 
yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt ; 
fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each 
•trew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. 



PUDDINGS, 



Fritters, 

Make them of any of the battere directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan; or 
make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and 
cored into the hatter, and fry some of it with each slice. 
Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an 
agreeable change. — Fritters for company should be 
served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort ot 
sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. 
Spanish Fritter*. 
Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick 
* as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some 
cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. 
When well soaked, fry of a nice brown j and serve with 
butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. 

Patatoe Fritters. 
Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat Four 
yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above 
one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a 
squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this bat- 
ter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. 
Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop 
a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; 
and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice 
of a lemon, one desert-spoonful of peach-leaf or almond- 
water, and some white sugar warmed together : not 
to be served in the dish. 

Another Way. — Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a 
fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted 
over them. Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange- 
flower water, should be added to the batter. 

Backings, 

Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea- 
cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it 
rise before the fire about an hour ■ then mix four eggs 
well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter 
the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the 
same. 



151 



nOlIKSTIC COOKKKV. 



PASTRY. 

Rich Puf PctttU, 

Puffs may be made of any sort of fruity but it should 
be prepared first with sugar, 

Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine 
Bout as you judge necessary ; mix a little of the former 
with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will 
make into a stiff paste. Itoll it out, and put all the butter 
over it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin ; do 
this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. 
Tli' ljutter may be added at twice; uud to those who are 
not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. 

A quicker oven than for short crust. 

A lesn rich Paste. 

Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a 
little water, and an egg well beaten — of the former as 
little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough, lloll, 
and fold it three or four times. 

Bub extremely tine in otie pound of dried flour, six 
ounces of butler, and a spoonful of white sugar; work 
up the whole intu a stiff paste with as little fwt water 
as possible. 

Crust /or Venxaoti Patty. 
To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds 
and a half of butter, and (bur eggs ; mix into paste with 
warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consis- 
tence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the 
bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, 
to bear the long continuance in the oven. 

R ice Paste for Sweett, 

Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest 
quantity of water : strain from it all the moisture as well 
as you can; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of 
butter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an 
excellent paste for tarts, &c. 



PUDDINGS, StC. 



Rice Paste far roUtkytg thing t. 

Clean, and pnt some rice, with an onion and a little 
water and milk, or milk only, into a sauce-pan, and 
simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, 
and cover it with the rice ; by the addition of an egg, 
the rice will adhere better. 

Rabbits fricasseed, and covered thus, are very good. 

Potatoe Paste. 

Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, 
a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, 
or you may mix with it an egg ; then before it gets 
cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it from 
sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. 

If it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, 
it will be apt to crack. 

Raised Crusts for Custards or Fruit. 

Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan with 
water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as 
you choose; knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it, as 
at the bottom of page 136. Raise it ; and if for custard, 
put a paper within to keep out the sidts till half done, 
then fill w ith a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and a 
little peach- water, lemon-peel, or nutmeg, uy cold is 
meant that the egg is not 10 be warmed, but the milk 
should be warmed by itself— not to spoil the crust. 

The above butter will make a great deal of raised 
ctust, which must not be rich, or it will be difficult to 
prevent the sides from fulling. 

Excellent short Crusts. 

Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, 
quite dry ; then mix it with a pound of flour well dried ; 
rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be 
seen — into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paBte \ roll it 
thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

Another. — Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an 
ounce of sugar pounded and sifted ; then crumble three 



156 



DOMBSTIC COOKERY. 



ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and, 
with a gill of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. 

Jlnolnfr, not sweet t but rich.- — Rub 6 ounces of but- 
ter in eight ounces of fine flour; mix into a stiffiah 
paste, with as little water as possible; beat it well, and 
roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts 
of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. 

A very fine Crust Jot Orange-cheesecakes, or Sweetmeat*, 
when to bo particularly nice. 

Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three oun- 
ces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of butter 
withyour hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it 
by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, 
the yolksofthree, and whites of two eggs. If too limber, 
put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Lineyour 

1>attypanft, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will 
>ake them. Against they come out, have ready some 
refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick 
as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to 
harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. 

Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust ; but if 
for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. 
Observations on Pastry. 
An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adher- 
ing to the board, or dish, used in making. It is best 
when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very 
hoc weather, the butter should be put into cold water 
to keep it as firm as possible ; and if made early in the 
morning, and preserved from the air until it is to be 
baked, the cook will find it much better. A good 
hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce 
Uglier crust than others. Salt butter, if very good, and 
well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. 

Remarks on using preserved Fruit in Pastry. 
Preserved fruits should not be baked long ; those that 
have been done with their full proportion of sugar, need 
no baking ; the crust should be oaked in a tin shape, and 
the fruit be afterwards added; or it may be put into a 



PASTRY. 



157 



small dish, or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a 
tin cut out according to your taste. 

Apple Pie. 

Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside ; 
which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it tastes 
well : strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of bruised 
cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place 
the appleB in a dish, a paste being put round the edge; 
when one layer is in, sprinkle halt' the sugar, and shred 
lemon-peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cyder 
if the apples have lost their spirit ; put in the rest of the 
apples, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled. 
Cover with paste. You may add Borne butter when cut, 
if eaten hot ; or put quince-marmalade, orange-paste, 
or cloves, to flavour. 

Hot Apple Pie.— Make with the fruit, sugar, and a 
clove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. 
Cherry Pie. 

Should have a mixture of other fruit ; currants or 
raspberries, or both. 

Carrant Pie. 
With or without raspberries. 

Mince Pie. 

Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh 21b., 
4lb. of suet picked and chopped, then add 61b. of currants 
nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, 31b, of chopped apples, 
the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a 
nutmeg, a J of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto 
pimento, in finest powder ; press the whole into a deep 
pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry 
cool place. 

Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very" large 
family. 

Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put 
snme of each in the pies when made. 

Mince Pies without Meat. 
Of the best apples 6 pounds, pared, cored, and min- 
ced ; of fresh suet, and raisins Btoned, each three pounds, 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



likewise minced: to these add of mace and cinnamon a 
quarter of an ounce each, ami eight cloves, in rtnem 
jiowder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three 
quarters of an ounce of Bait, the rinds of four and juice of 
twn lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. 
Mix well and put into a deep pan. 

Have ready washed and dried four pounds ofcurrants, 
and add as you make the pies, with candied fruit. 

Lemon Mince Pies. 

Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender 
enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples 
chopped, and four ounces of suet, hall" a pound of cur- 
rauts, four ounces of sugar ; put the juico of the lemon, 
and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a sborl 
crust, and fill the pattypans as usual. 

Egg Mince Pies. 

Boil six eggs hard, shred them small ; shred double 
the quantity of suet: then put currants washed and 
picked one pound, or more, if the eggs were large ; the 
peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, she 
spoonfuls of swfi't '.vine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very 
little salt : orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Make 
a light paate lor them. 

Currant and Raspberry. 

Lor a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lay ham 
across, and bake. 

Light Paste for Tarts ami Cheesecakes. 
Be&t the white of an egg to a atrong froth ; then mix it 
with as much water as will make three quarters of a p< Kind 
of fine flour into a very stifl" paste ; roll it very thin, then 
lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon itin little 
bits ; dredge it with Bome flour left out at first, and roll 
it up tight. Roll it out again, and put the same propor- 
tion of butter ; and so proceed till all be worked up. 
Icing for Tarts. 
Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well to- 
gether, wash the tarts with a feather and sift sugar over 



PASTRY. 



159 



as you put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, 
wash the paste, and sift white sugar. 

Pippin Tarts. 
Pare thin two Seville or China oranges, boil the 
peel tender, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty 
apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as 
possible ; when half done, add half a pound of sugar, 
the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. ; 
When cold, put in a shallow dish, or pattypans lined 
with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. 

Prune Tart. 

Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break 
them; put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, 
with the prunes and sugar; simmer; and when cold, 
make a tart of the sweetmeat. 

Orange Tart. 

Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges tender, 
weigh them, and double of sugar; beat both together 
to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the 
fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat 
all together Choose a very shallow dish, line it with 
a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. 
You may ice it. 

Codlin Tart. 

Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article ; 
when ready takeoff the thin skin, and lay them whole in 
i dish,puta/i'/zfe ofthe water that the apples were boiled 
in at bottom, strew them over with lump BUgar or fine 
Lisbon ; when cold, put a paste round the edges and over. 

You may wet it with white of egg, and strew sugar 
over, which looks well : or cut the lid in quarters, 
without touching the paste on the edge of the dish ; 
/.in] either put the broad end downwards, and make 
the point stand up, or remove the lid altogether. Pour 
a good custard over it when cold ; sift sugar over. 

Or line the bottom of a shallow dish w ith paste, lay 
the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste 
over in bars. 



160 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Rhubarb Tart. 

Cut the stalks in lengths of four or live inches, and 
take off the thin akin. If you have a hot hearth, lay 
them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and 
water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer very 
slowly an hour — or do them in a block tin sauce-pan. 

When cold, make into a tart, as codlin. When 
tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient, 
liaxpberry Tart with Cream, 

llnll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a patty- 
pan of what size you choose ; put in raspberries ; strew 
over them fine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and then 
bake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mix- 
ture warm: half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or 
three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar ; and when 
this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five 
or six minutes. 

Orange Tart. 

Line a tart-pan with thin puff-paste : put into it 
orange marmalade that is made with apple-jelly ; lay 
bars of paste, or a croquant cover over, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Fried Patties. 

Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mix with a 
lew crumbu of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very 
small bit of lemon peel — add the liquor of the oysters ; 
warm all in a tosser, but don't boil ; let it go cold ; have 
ready a good puff- paste, roll thin, and cut it in round 
or Bquare bits ; but some of the above between two ol 
them, twist the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry 
them of a fine brown. 

This is a very good thing ; and baked, is a fashion- 
able dish. 

Wash all patties over with egg before baking. 
Oyster Patties. 

Put a fine puff-paste into small pattypans, and cover 
with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against they 
are bakod have ready the following to fill with, taking 



PASTRY. 



161 



out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut 
the other parts in small bits, put them iu a small tosser, 
with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and 
nali . a morsel of lemon-peel, cut bo small that you cau 
scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster 
liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill 

Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keej 
them hollow while baking. 

Oyster Patties, or Small Pie, 

As you open the oysters separate them from the 
liquor, which strain ; parboil them, after taking off the 
beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and cutting them in slices, 
lay them and the oysters in layers, season very lightly 
with salt, pepper, and mace. Then put half a tea-cup of 
liquor, and the same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven ; 
and before you serve, put a tea-cup of cream, a little 
more oyster-liquor, and a cup of white gravy, all warmed, 
but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters should be cut 
insmalldice, gently stewed, and seasoned as above, and 
put into the paste when ready for table. 

Lobster Patties. 

Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and 
the smallest bit of butter. 

Podovi&s, or Beef Patties. 

Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season 
with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Make a 
plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like an apple 
puff, nil it with the mince, pinch the edges, and fry 
them of a nice brown. The paste should be made witfr 
a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. 

Veal Patties. 

Mince some veal that is not quite done with a little 
parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of 
salt ; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the 
meat ; and if you have any nam, Bcrape a little, and 
add to it. Don't warm it till the patties are baked, 
Turkey Patties. 

Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, 



162 



DOMESTIC COOKtRY. 



nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a 
very little bit of batter warmed, fill the patties. 
Street Pailies. 

Chop the meat of a boiled calf's foot, of which yea 
use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange 
and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; 
mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of ar 
egg, a spoonful of brandy, ana four ounces of currants 
washed and dried. 

Hake in small patty-pnns, 

Patfies rtstmbiiitg Sihtee Pitt, 

Chop the kidney and fat ot cold veal, apple, nrnnge, 
and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little 
wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and bit of 
sugar. Buke as before. 

Apple Puffi. 

Pare the fruit, and either stew them iu a stone jar on 
a hoi hearth, or hake them. When cold, mix the pulp 
of the apple with sugar mul lemon-peel shred fine, 
lading as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake 
them in thin paste, in a quick oven ; a quarter of an 
our will do them, if small, Orange or quince-marma- 
lade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or' 
orange Bower water, in change. 

Lmrm Piifft. 

Bait and sift a pound and a quarter of double-refined 
sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it 
well with the sugar ; then beat the whites of three 
new-laid eggs a great while, add them to the sugar and 
peel, and beat it for an hour; make it up in any shape 
you please, and hake it nn paper put on tin-plates, in 
a moderate oven. Don't remove the paper till cold. 
Oiling the paper will make it come off with ease. 
Cheese Pttjf'tt. 

Cream cneese-curd from the whey, and beat half a pint 
hasin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of 

limn, three eggs, hut only one white, a spoonful of 
o ange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to 



PAMItY. 



163 



make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in 
small very round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is 
hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with 
pudding-sauce. 

Excellent light Puffs. 
Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, 
some nutmeg,halfa spoonful of brandy, a little loaf-sugar, 
and one egg ; then fry it enough, but not brown \ beat 
it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a 
quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, 
drop a desert-spoonful of hatter at a time ; turn as they 
brown. Serve them immediately, with sweet sauce. 

To prepare V enison for Pasty. 
Take the bones out, then season an'd beat the meat, lay 
it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain 
drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on 
the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is a sauce- 
pan ot water over the fire, simmer three or four hours— ' 
then leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the 
cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; 
if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or 
pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep 
the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be 
thus prepared, it will not require so much time to bake, 
ox such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the 
under part is seldom done through. 

Vm 'mon Pasty. 
A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must 
be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by 
that of a fine well hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty- 
four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. 

The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to 
rub it well with sugar for two or threedays, and when 
to bo used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. 

A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be 
baked too much ; but, as above directed, three or four 
hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, 



DOMSfVIO COOKERY. 



and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder 
or side, the meat must be cut m pieces, and laid with fat 
between, that it may be proportioned to each person 
without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pep- 
per and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; 
then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently 
done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. 

The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old 
mutton — of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish , 
then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line 
the sides with a thick crust, but don't put one under the 
meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty 
comes from the oven ; put it into the middle by a fun- 
nel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should 
be seasoned with pepper and salt. 

To make a Panty of Beef or Mutton, to eat an veil at 
Fenuon, 

Hone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or a 
fat loin of mutton, alter hanging several days. Beat it 
very well with a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of 
meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass 
of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days 
and nights; wash and wipe the meat very dry, and 
season it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nut- 
meg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds 
put one pound or near of butter, spreading it over the 
meat. Put a crust round the edges, and cover with a 
thick one, or it will be overdone before the meat be 
soaked — it must be done in a slow oven. 

Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water 
than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little 
pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy 
to add to the paste when drawn. 

Note. Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better 
.flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which 
hardens — and it is quite as gTeat a preservative. 

Potatae Pasty. 
Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible ; mix 



PASTRY. 



lt>5 



them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make 
a paste ; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in 
the potatoe ; fold over one half, pinching the edges. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Cheap and Excellent Custards. 

Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon- 
peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and 
sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a large spoon- 
ful of rice-flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with 
it two yolka of eggs well beaten. Take a baaon of the 
boiling milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that 
to the boiling; stirring it one way till it begins to 
thicken, and is just going to boil up ; then pour it into 
a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach- 
water, two tea-spoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratafia. 
Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely to burn, 
will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it from 
catching. 

Richer Custard. 
Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; 
mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well 
beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten 
it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stir- 
ring it well ; then give the custard a simmer till of & 
proper thickness. Don't let it boil ; stir the whole time 
one way ; season as above. If to be extremely rich, 
put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. 

Baked Custard, 
Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk ; with mace, 
cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, 
mix the yolks of three eggs ; sweeten and make your 
cups or paste nearly full. Bake thpm ten minutes. 

Lemon Custards. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white aB 
milk; then put to them apint of boiling water, the rinds 
of two lemons grated, and the Auice sweetened to yout 



166 



DOMBSTIC COOKERY. 



taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a 
large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy ; give 
the whole one scald, and put it in cups, to be eaten culd. 

Almond Custard, 
Blanch mid beat fbnr ounces of almonds fine with a 
spoonful of water ; beat a pint of cream with two spoon- 
fuls of rose water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, 
and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet ; then 
add the almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of 
a proper thickness ; but don't boil. Pour it into cups. 

CheesecakeH. 

Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk ; 
when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and 
mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ounceof pounded 
blanched alinonds,alittleorange-tlower water,half aglaa* 
of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, 
some nutmeg, and cinnamon, in fine powder, aud btat 
all the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, 
till quite light; then fill the pattypans three parts full. 

A plainer sort. 
Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain 
the whey j when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces 
of butler, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a 
half of thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cin- 
namon, nutmeg, and three ounces of currants. 

Cheesecakes, another way. 
Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of cur- 
rants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an 
ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one 
lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks 
of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, 
and a glass of brandy. Put a light thin puff-paste in 
the pattypans, and three parts fill them. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. 
Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounce* 
of butter, and gently melt it : then add the yolks of two 



PASTRY. 



and the white of one egg, the rind of three lemons 
shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy 
biscuit, Bome blanched almonds pounded, three spoon- 
fuls of brandy ; mix well, and put in paste made as fol- 
lows ; eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two 
thirds of which mix with the flour first, then wet it 
with six spoonfuls of water, and roll the remainder in, 
Another tvay. — Boil two large lemons, or three 
small ones, and after squeezing, pound them well to- 
gether in a mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the 
yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. 
Fill the pattypans half full. 

Orange cheesecakes are done the same way, only 
you must boil the peel in two or three waters to take 
out the bitterness, or make them of orange marmalade 
well beaten in a mortar. 

Orange. Cheesecakes. 
When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat 
them very fine, with orange-flower water,and half a pound 
of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has 
been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be 
nearly cold before you use it; then beat the yolks often, 
and whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, 
and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mor- 
tar' till as tender as marmalade, without any lumps ; 
and beat the whole together and put into pattypans. 
Potatoe Cheesecakes, 
Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of 
lemon-peel ; beat the latter in a marble mortar with 
four ounces of Bugar, then add the potatoes, beaten, 
and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. 
When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put crust 
in pattypans, and rather more than half fill them. 
Bake in a quick oven half an hour, sifting some double 
refined sugar on them when going to the oven. — This 
quantity will make a dozen. 

Almond Cheesecakes. 
Blanch and pouud four ounces of almonds, and a few 




168 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



bitter, with a spoonful of water ; then add four ounce* 
of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites 
of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible ; 
put into very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm 
oven under twenty minutes. 

Another way. — Planch and pound four ounces of al- 
monds, with a little orange-fin wer, or rose-water; then 
stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs, well 
beaten, five ounces of butter wanned, the peel of a 
lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; sweeten with 
fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake in a deli- 
cate paste, in small pans. 

Another may. — Press the whey from as much curd as 
will make two dozen small ones ; then put it on the back 
of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it 
through with the back of a spoon ; put to it six yolks, 
and three whites of eggs, and a few hitter almonds 
pounded with as much Bugar as will make the curd 
properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon'grated, 
ana a glass of brandy. Put a pull-paste into the pans, 
and ten minutes will bake them. 

Dough Nuts. 

Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of 
flour, then add five ounces of sugar, two eggs, about a 
desert spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it 
into a stiff paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, 
and cut jt into shapes, with a paste cutter, and boil 
them in lard, till they are of a nice brown color. 

A Tipsy Cake. 

Put r sponge cake into a deep china or glass dish, 
pour round it some white wine (raisin is very suitable,) 
and a wine glass of brondy. Let the cakes soak up 
the wine, and then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour 
in the dish a rich thick custard. Ornament the top 
of the cake by sticking a light flower in the centre, or 
bits of clear currant jelly, or blanch and split some 



PASTRY. 



168* 



sweet almonds, and stick them thickly over the 

cake. 

Royal Paste, called 11 Au Choux," 

This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry ; it 
is used to mix an infinite number of second , course 
dishes of various forms, and of different denomina- 
tions. 

Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four 
quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it 
with a quarter of a pound or a little more of fresh 
butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel 
of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is 
entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flour 
and shake it through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel 
out with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into 
the preparation while boiling; take care, however, 
not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. 
Stir with a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be 
detached from the stew-pan and then take it off the 
fire. Next break an egg into this paste, and mix it 
well ; then hreak a second, which also mix ; do not 
put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you 
must be careful not to make this preparation too 
liquid. It is almost certain, that about five or six 
eggs will be wanted for the above quantity ; then form 
them en choux, by which is meant, in the shape of a 
ball, an inch in circumference. As this paste swells 
very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting 
the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch distant from 
each other, in order that they may undergo a greater 
effect in the oven. Brush them over as usual with 
the dorure or egg wash, to which has been added a 
little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, 
but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, 
otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to 
make them rise again would be useless : next dry 
them. Sometimes you may glnze them ; at other 
times you may send them up without being glazed. 



169 



DOMESTIC COOKBHY- 



To detach them from the baking elieet, apply the 
sbftri> edge of your knife, and take them on gently. 
Then make u email opening on the aide, into which 
put, with a teaspoon, such Bweelmeals as you think 
proper, and send them up dished en buisson. 

N.B. Be cautious to smell every egg, before you 
use it, for a bad one would spoil the whole. 

* # * This elegant receipt is extracted from 1 The 
French Cook,' by Mr. Ude. 



PART VII. 

VEGETABLES. 

Observations on dressing Vegetables. 
Vegetables should be carerully cleaned from in- 
sects, and nicely washed. Boil thein in plenty of water, 
mid drain them the moment they are done enough. If 
overboiled, they lose their beauty and criapiiesa, Had 
cooks sometimes dress them with meat ; which is wrong, 
except carrots with boiling beef. 

To bait V tge tables green. 

Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make 
them boil very fast. Don't cover, but watch them ; and 
if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they 
are done when they begin to sink. Then take them 
out immediately, or the colour will change. Hard 
water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such 
vegetables as should be green. 

To bolt them green in hardrvater^ put a tea-spoon- 
ful of salt of wormwood into the water wheu it boils, 
belbre the vegetables tire put in. 

Vegetable Mai-rote. To boil or stew. 
This excellent vegetable maybe boiled asasparagu 



VEGETABLES. 



169* 



When toiled, divide it length way* into two, and serve 
it up on toaat accompanied by melted butter; or when 
nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in 
gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose 
young ones not exceeding six inches in length. 

To keep green Peas. 

Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it 
boils ; give them two or three walms only, and pour 
them into a colander. When the water drains off, 
turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and 
pour tbetn on another cloth to dry perfectly. Then 
bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles ; leaving only 
room to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch 
thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down; and keep it 
in the cellar or in the earth, as will be directed for 
gooseberries under the head of keeping for Winter. — 
When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with 
a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. 

Another way, as practised in the emperor of Russia 8 
kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie an 
hour in water; then set them on with cold water and 
a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig 
of dried mint to boil with them. 

Boiled Pern 

Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop 
some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of 
butter in with them. 

To stew green Peas. 

Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both 
sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water 
than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew 
them two hours very gently. When to he served, beat 
up an egg, and stir it into them: or a bit of flour and 
butter- 
Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar 
is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but then 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

there will he less of the flavour of the peas. Chop t 
bit of mint, and stew in them. 

To itcw old Peat, 
Stew ihem in water all night, if not fine boilers j 
otherwise only half an hour: put them into water 
enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, 
or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till 
.he peas are soft, and the meat is tender ; if it is not 
alt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve them 
round the meat. 

To dress Artichokes. 
Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the 
stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They 
are better for being gathered two or three days iirst. 
Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups 
as there are artichokes, to help with each* 
Artichoke Bottoms. 
If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak 
gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. 
Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream- 
sauce ; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c, 

Jerusalem Artichokes 
Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they 
will be too Boft. 

They may be boiled plain, or served with white 
fricas<iee-*auce. 

To stew Cucumbers. 

Slice them thick; or halve and divide them into twt 
lengths ; strew some salt and pepper, and sliced onions : 
add a little broth, or a bit of bntter. Simmer very 
slowly ; and before serving, if no butter was in before, 
put some, and a little flour ; or if there was butter in, 
only a little flour ; unless it wants richness. 

Another way, — Slice the onions, and cut the cucum- 
bers large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter; 
then pour some good broth or gravy, ond stew them 
till done enough. Skim off the fat. 



VEGETABLES. 



171 



To stew Onions. 
Peel six large onions, fry gently of a fine brown, but 
do not blacken them ; then put them into a small 
stew-pan with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt ; 
cover and stew two hours gently. They should be 
lightly floured at first. 

Roast Onions 

Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well 
alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast 
potatoes, or with beet roots. 

To stew Celery. 

Wash six heads and strip off their outer leaves, 
either halve or leave them whole, according to their 
Bize ; cut into lengths of four inches. Put them into 
a stew-pan with a cup of broth, or weak white gravy ; 
stew till tender, then add two spoonfuls of cream, and 
a little flour and butter seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, and simmer all together. 

To boil Cauliflowers. 

Choose those that are cloBe and white, cut off the 
green leaves, and look carefully that there are no cater- 
pillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then 
boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the 
sauce-pan, that not the least foulness may full on the 
flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. 
Cauliflower in white Sauce. 

Half boil it, then cut it into handsome pieces, and 
lay them in a stew -pan with a little broth, a bit of 
mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper ; simmer 
half an hour, then put a little cream, butter, and flour , 
shake and simmer a few minutes, and serve. 

To dress Cauliflower and Parmesan. 

Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the 
stalk so that the flower will stand upright about two 
inches above the dish. Put it iuto a stew-pan with a 
little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which 
will be but a few minutes ; then dish it with the 
sauoe round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown 
it with a salamander. 



DOMESTIC COOKHttY. 



To t/rcv.v Hiwoli. 
Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough 
skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and 
boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt 
must be put into the water. Serve with or without 
toast. 

Spinach 

Requires great care in washing and picking it. When 
that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just 
hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. 
The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. 
When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of 
butter: it must come to table pretty dry, and looks 
well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large 
leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of 
cream is an improvement. 

To dress Beant, 
Bod tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must be 
chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled purk 
must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. 
Fricasseed Windsor limns. 
When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and 
lay them in a white sauce ready hot ; just heat them 
through hi it, and serve. If any are not of a lint- 
green, do not use them for this dish. 

French fteawt. 
String, and cut them into tour or eight ; the last 
f<x»ks best. Lay them in salt nnd water, and when 
Jhe sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. A a 
soon as they are done serve them immediately, to pre- 
serve the green colour.— Or when half-done drain the 
water off, and put them into two spoonfuls of broth 
strained ; and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to 
finish doing them. 

To stem red Cabbage, 
Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and 
put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but 
what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till 
quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or 



VEGETABLES. 



173 



three spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the 
fixe. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. 

Another may, — Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it 
over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper and salt, 
and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few 
minutes beiore serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with 
flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up, 
Another. — Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into 
the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an 
ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, 
and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. 
When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, 
pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix 
these well, and bod them all till the liquor is wasted ; 
then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. 
M ushroams. 

The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the 
different sorts of things called by this name by igno- 
rant people, as the death of many persons has been 
occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. 

The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and 
of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very 
fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the 
size increases the under part gradually opens, and 
shews a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which 
continues more or less till the mushroom has gained 
some Bize, and then turns to a dark brown. These 
marks should be attended to, and likevnse whether the 
skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. 
Those that have a white or yellow fur should be care- 
fully avoided, though many of them have the same 
smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. 

To stew Mushrooms* 

The large buttons are best, and the small flaps 
while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with 
salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off 
the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, 
and put into a stew-pan with some pepper-corns; 
simmer slowly til] done, then put a small bit of butter 



174 



DOMESTIC COOKRHY- 



and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream ; give them one 
boil, and serve with sippets of bread. 

To stew Sorrel for Fricandrau and roast Mmt. 

Wash the sorrel, and put it into a stiver vessel, or 
stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. 
Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough 
put a bit of butter, and beat it well. 

French Salad, 

Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, 
small; put them into a bowl with two table-ipoonfuli 
of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, nnd salt. When 
well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled 
meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a time, not 
exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them in 
the seasoning, and then put more; cover the bowl 
close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before 
it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, ami a few 
slices of the fat. 

Lobster Salad. 

Make a salad, and put some of the red part of the 
lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to the 
white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much 
oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. 
Serve in a dish, not a howl. 

To boil Potatoes. 

Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold 
water; let them half boil, then throw some salt in, 
nnd a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till 
almost done. Pour olf the water, and put a clean 
cloth over them, and then the sauce-pan cover, and set 
them by the fire to steam till ready. Many persons 
prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is 
peelcil, not cut. 

Do new potatoes the same, but be careful they are 
taken offin time, or they will be watery. Before dressing, 
rub off the skin with a cloth rad salt, and then wash. 
To brtiil Potatoes, 

Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and 
then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow 



VEGETABLES. 



175 



fire, and when thoroughly done send them up with 
their skins on. This last way is practised in many 
Irish families. 

To roast Potatoes. 
Half boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a 
beautiful brown. 

To fry Potatoes. 
Take the skin off raw potatoes, Blice and fry them, 
either in butter or thin batter. 

To mash Potatoes. 
Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to 
paste ; then to two pounds of thein add a quarter of a 
pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, 
and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them in 
this manner, or place them on the dish in a form, and 
then brown the top with a salamander, or in scallops. 
Carrots 

Require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe off 
the skin atter they are boiled ; when old, boil them 
with the salt meat, and scrape them first. 

To stew Carrots. 
Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a 
stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak 
broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of 
cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, but not 
broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a 
bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, 
chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before 
served. 

To mash Parsnips. 

Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them into a 
atew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, 
and pepper and salt. 

Fricassee of Parsnips. 

Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them length- 
ways into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in 
a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of 
mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some 
flour, pepper, and salt. 



176 



DOMESTIC COOIKTIY. 



To dress Chardoant. 

Cut them into pieces of six inches long, and put ou 
i string; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of 
butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. 

Or tie them into bundles, and serve aa asparagu 
boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. 

Or boil, and then heat them up in fricassee- sauce. 

Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into 
butter, and fry them. Serve with melted nutter. 

Or stew them i boil na directed in the last page ; 
toss them up with a brown or white gravy, add 
Cayenne, ketchup, and Bait. Thicken with a bit of 
butter and flour. 

Beet Roots 

Make a very pleasant addition to winter-aalad, of 
which they may agreeably form a full half, instead, 
of befog only used to ornament it. This root is cool- 
ing, and very wholesome. 

It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a Bmall 
quantity of onion ; or Btewed with whole onions, large 
or small, us follows : 

Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a 
stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar; 
simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour, thett 
put it into a small dish, and make a round of the 
button-onions, first boiled till tender; take off the 
skin just before Berving, and mind they are quite hot 
and clear. 

Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer 
Bkins till they look clear, and Berve the beet root 
stewed round them, 

II' beet root is in the least broken before dressed it 
parts with its colour, and looks ill. 

Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire. 

Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves, 
two large handful s of parsley, and a handful of green 
onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle 
them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew with 
some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, shake 



VEGETABLES. 



177 



the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be 
closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. 
It is Berved with slices of broiled calves'-liver, small 
rashers of bacon, and eggs fried ; the latter on the 
hexlas, the other in a separate dish. 

Sea Cale 

Must be boiled very white, and served on toast like 
asparagus. 

Laxer. 

This is a plant that crows on the rocks near the sea 
in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared 
for eating. 

Set Borne of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of 
butter, and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till 
hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is a great sweet- 
ener of the blood. It is seldom liked at first, but 
people become extremely fond of it by habit. 

To preserve several Vegetables to eat in Winter* 

For French beans, pick them young, and throw into 
a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep ; 
then sprinkle them with salt, putanother layer of beans, 
and do the same as high as you think proper, alter- 
nately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over 
them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the 
keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise 
from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the 
soaking and boiling will not be sufficient to make them 
pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, cut, 
soak, and boil them as if fresh. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Heet-roots, should be kept 
in layers of dry Band for winter-use ; and neither they 
nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Pota- 
toes should be carefully kept from frost. 

Store-onions keep best hungup in a dry cold room. 

Parsley should be cut close to the stalks ; and dried 
in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven : it pre- 
serves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in 
winter. 

Artichoke-bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in 



173 



flOMRSTIC COOKERY. 



paper bags ; and Truffles, Morels, Lemoiupeel, ttc 
111 a dry place, tiekotted. 

Small close Caltbttffea, laid on a stone floor before 
the frost Bets in, will blanch and be very fine, after 

many week* keeping. 

PICKLE*. 
Hitles to he nhnerrrd wilh Picklrt. 
Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden 
Bpoon t with holes, tied to each jar ; all mettle being 
improper. They should be well kept from the air; 
the large jars be seldom opened ; and small ones, for 
the different pickles in use, should be kept for common 
supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, 
and the top closely covered. 

Acids dissolve the lend that is in the tinning of 
uce-pans. When necessary to boil vinegar, dolt in 
stone jar on the hot hearth. Pickles should never 
be put into glazed jars, an salt and vinegar penetrate 
the glaze, which ia poisonous. 

Lemon Pickle. 
Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces ; put on 
them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlick, two 
ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, 
mace, nutmeg, and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce 
each, and two ounces of flour of mustard ; to these put 
two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in 
a well-tinned sauce-pan ; or, which is better, do it in 
a strong jar. in a kettle of boiling water; or set the jar 
on the hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it 
daily for six weeks ; keep the jar close covered. Put 
it into small bottles. 

Indian Pickle. 

Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night; 
then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the 
other ingredients shall be ready. 

Peel, slice, and Bait a pound of garlick three days, 
then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper 
in the same way. 



179 



Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : 

Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, 
squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. 

Cauliflowes cut in their branches ; take off the green 
from radishes • cut celery in three-inch lengths; ditto 
young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, 
which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, 
choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or 
quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, 
and dried in the sun, except the latter ; over whicb 
you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours 
drain them, hut no salt must be used. 

Put the spice, garlick, a quarter of apound of mustard- 
seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the 
quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and 
one ounce of turauric, to be ready against the vege- 
tables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe 
the following directions : Put some of them into a two- 
quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boil- 
ing vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables ; 
and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and 
boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the ve- 
getables; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus 
proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust 
which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in 
doing; then, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces 
of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of 
it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should have 
been previously scalded, but let to be cool before it 
was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. 

This pickle will not be ready for a year ; but you may 
make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving 
the cauliflower one scald in water, after Baiting and dry- 
ing as above, but without the preparative vinegar; then 
pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boil- 
ing hot over. If at any time it be found that the vege- 
tables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, 
and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. 



180 



DOMESTIC COOKBJIY. 



English linmboo. 

Cut the large young shoots of elder, which put out 
in the middle of May, (the middle stalks are most 
tender;) peel off the outw:ird pee], or skin, and laythetn 
in suit and water very strong, one night. Dry them 
piece by piece in a cloth. Have in readiness a pickle 
thus made and boiled: to a quart ofvinegnr put an 
ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a lit- 
tle mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder 
■hoots, in a. stone jar; stop close, and set by the fire 
two hours, turning the jar often, to keep it scalding 
hot. If not geeen when cold, Btrain off the liquor, and 
pour boiling hot again; keep it hot as before. Or, if 
you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots arc 
a great improvement to it ; in which case you need 
only pour boiling vinegar and mustard-seed on them; 
and keep them till your jar of pickles shall be ready to 
receive them. The chiBter of elder-flowerj before it 
opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat with boiled mut- 
ton. It is only done by pouring boding vinegar over. 

Melon. Mangoet. 

There is a particular Bort for this purpose, which 
the gardeners know. Cut a Bquaresmull piece out of one 
side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with 
them mustard-seeds and shred garlick ; stuff the melon 
as full as the space will allow, and replace the square 
piece. Bind it up with a small new pack-thread. Boil 
a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for wasting, with 
pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the 
mangoes four successive days ; the last, put flour of 
mustard, and Bcraped horse-radish, into the vinegarjust 
as it boils up. Stop close. Observe that there is plenty 
of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not well covered. 
Mangoes should be done soon after they are gathered. 
Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared aa 
mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. 

Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar 
is poured over either sort, the sooner it wdl be ready. 



PICKLES. 



181 



Pickled Lemons. 
They should be small, and with thick rind ; nib them 
with a piece of flannel ; then alit them half down in 
tour quarters, but not through to the pulp : till the slits 
with salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for 
four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice 
a day in their own liquid, until tender ; make enough 

{>ickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the 
emons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil and skim it; 
when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of 
muatard-seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. 
When the lemons are used the pickle will be useful in 
fish or other sauces. 

Olives 

Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of 
different sizes And flavour ; each sort should be firm, 
though some are moBt fleshy. 
Preserve them from the air. 

Pickled Onions. 
In the month of September, choose the small white 
round onions, takeoff the brown skin, have ready a very 
nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in as many 
onions as will cover the top ; as soon as they look clear 
on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a 
slice, and lay them on a clean cloth ; cover them close 
with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let 
them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass 
or wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the best 
white wine vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold 
cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. 
They must look quite clear. 

To pickle Cucumbers and Onions sliced. 
Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them: next 
day drain them for five or six hours; then put them into 
a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, aud keep 
them in a warm place. The slices should be thick. 
Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again in- 



\82 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



stantly ; and so oh till preen ; Ihe last time put pepper 
and ginger. Keep in Bmall stone jars. 

To pickle young Cucumber 
Choose niceyounggerkins, spread them on dishes, aalt 
them, and let them liea week — drain them, and, putting 
them in ajar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them 
near the fire, covered with plenty of vine-leaves ; if they 
do not become a tolerable good green, pour the vinegar 
into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it 
boils, pour it over them again, covering with fresh 
leaves ; and thus do till they arc of as good a colour as 
yon wish: — but as it is now known that the very fine 
green pickles are made so by using brass or bell-metat 
vessels, which, when vinegar is put into th en i, become 
bigldy poisonous, lew people like to eat them. 

To pickle h'atnuit. 

When they will bear a pin to go into then, puta brine 
of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an 
egg on them, being quite cold first, It must be well 
skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six dnye ; then 
change the brine, let them stand six more ; then drain 
them, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best 
white wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, 
imento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and 
orse-radiBh ; all boiled together, but cold. To every 
hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mustard-seed, 
and two or three heads of garlick or shalot, but the 
latter is least strung. 

Thus done, they will be good for several years, if 
close covered. The air will soften them. They will 
not be fit to eat under six months. 

The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the 
walnuts are used. 

Another may. — Put them into a jar, cover them with 
the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months; then 
pour off the pickle and boil as much fresh vinegar as 
will cover the walnuts, adding to every three quarts of 
vinegar one quarter pound of best Durham mustard, a 



PICKLES. 



183 



stick of horse-radish sliced, one half-ounce of black 
pepper, one half-ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, 
one half-ounce of allspice, and a good handful of salt — 
pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and 
cover them close ; they will be fit for use in three or 
four months. You may add two ounces of garlick, or 
ehalot, hut not boiled in the vinegar. 

Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the 
first four months, you may make excellent ketchup. 

An excellent way to Pickle Mushrooms, to preserve the 
flavour. 

Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; 
and from the larger, take out the red inside, for when 
they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw 
a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with 
some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out shake 
them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of 
it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar 
into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and 
turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep twe 
years, and are delicious. 

To pickle Red Cabbage. 

Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with 
salt ; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and 
pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few 
slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple 
red cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spice will 
boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and 
thrown in alter being salted, will look of a beautiful red. 

Mushroom Ketchup, 
Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into 
an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and 
then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till 
there is a thick scum over ; strain, and boil the liquor 
with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove 
or two, and some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it 
ad tie a bladder over the cork ; in three months boil 



184 



DOMESTIC COOKEtlY. 



it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a 
twelvemonth. 

Mushroom Ketchup, another way. 

Take a stew-pan lull of the large-flap mushrooms, that 
aire not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you 
have pickled, throw a handful of salt among them, and 
let them by a slow fire ; they will producen great deal of 
liquor, which you must strain; and put to it 4 ouncet 
of shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, 
ginger, mace, cloves, and a few Bay-leaves — boil and 
skim very well. When cold, cork close. In two months 
boil it up again with a little fresh spice and a stick of 
horse-radish, and it will then keep the year; which mush- 
room ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time, 
Walnut Ketchup of the Jinext tort. 

Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of 
walnutB when they are tender, and skim it well ; then 
put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, ditto 
of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of 
pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till 
the shalots sink ; then put the liquor into a pan tin 
cold; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork 
closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep twenty 
years, and is not good the; first, lie very careful t<> 
express the juice at home ; for it is rarely unadul- 
terated, if bought. Some people make liquor of the 
outside Bhell when the nut is ripe ; but neither the 
flavour nor the colour is then so fine. 

Cockle Ketchup, 

Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor ; 
add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have 
not enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with 
every savoury spice; and if for brown Bauce, add port, 
anchovies, and garlic — if for white, omit these, ajid 
put a glass of sherry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, 
nutmeg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit 
nf sugar for colouring. It is better to have cockles 
enough than to add water; and they are cheap. 



SWEET DISHES. 



183 



To keep Capers. — Add fresh vinegar that has been 
scalded, and become cold — and tie them close, to keep 
out the air, which makes them soft. 



PART V1IL 

S"\VEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEET MEATS, &c. 

SWKET DISHES. 
Buttered Rice. 
WASH and pick some rice, drain, and put it with 
some new milk, enough just to swell it, over the lire ; 
when tender, pour oft" the milk, and add a bit of butter, 
a little sugar, aud pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that 
it do not burn, and serve, 

Souffie of Rice and Apple, 
Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in 
milk, with lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it 
boil till the rice is dry ; then cool it, and raise a rim 
three inches high round the dish; having egged the dish, 
where it is put, to make it stick. Then egg the rice 
all over. Fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of 
apples : have ready the whites of fouT eggs beaten to 
a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade ; then 
sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which 
should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. 
Snow Balhf, 

Sweil rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared 
and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each 
up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or 
cinnamon in each, and boil them well. 

Lent Potatoes. 

Beat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or 
four bitter, when blanched, putting a little orange-flower 
water to prevent oiling ; add eight ounces of butter, four 
eggs well beaten and strained, naif a glass of raisin wine, 
and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, 
and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the 
above with a little flour, the size of a ehesnut; throw 
them into a stew-pan of boiling laid, and boil them of 
a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. 

Serve sweet sauce in a boat, to eat with them. 



DOMESTIC COOKE RT. 



A Tansey. 

Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately ; add a 

pint of cream, near the same ofspinach-j uice, and a little 
tansey-juice gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a 
quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, aogar to taste, a 
glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a 
sauce-pan, just to thicken, over the fire; then put it 
into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it 
Putts t? Amour. 

Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with tin shapes 
made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyre- 
midical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a moderate 
oven, that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very 
pale. Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edges. 
A very nice Dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. 

Boil two ounces in a pint of mi)k, with a bit of lemon- 
peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are 
swelled to their utmost size without breuking. Lay 
them on a custurd-diah, and pour a custard over them 
hot. Serve cold. 

Floating Inland. 

Mix three half pints of thin cream with a quarter of 
a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower 
water, and sugar: put it into a dish for the middle of 
the table, and put on the cream a froth, as will be di- 
rected in page 195, which may be made of raspberry 
or currant jelly. 

Another way. — Scald a codliu before it be ripe, or any 
sharp apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of 
two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower 
water ; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together 
until you have a lage quantity of froth ; serve it on a 
raspberry cream; or you may colour the froth with 
beet-root, raspberry, currant-jelly, and set it on a 
white cream, having given it the flavour of a lemon, sugar 
and wine, as above ; or, put the froth on a custard. 
Flummery. 

Put three large hniidf'uls of very small white oatmeal 
to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it off 



SWEET DISHES, 



187 



clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the 
same time. Straiu it through a fine hair sieve, and boil 
till it be as thick as hasty pudding; stirring it well all 
the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoon- 
ful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour 
it into shallow dishes; and serve to eat with wine, cyder, 
milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. 

Dutch Flummery. 
Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water 
very gently half an hour ; add a pint of white wine, the 
juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a 
few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the es- 
sence, and with them add as much more sugar as shall 
make it sweet enough ; and having beaten the yolks of 
seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one 
scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into a bason; stir 
it till half cold ; then let it settle, and put it into a 
melon shape. 

Rice Flummery. 
Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and 
cinnamon j mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour 
as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, 
and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond 
beaten; boil it, observing it don't burn; pour it into a, 
shape or pint-basin, taking out the spice. When cold, 
turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, 
milk, or custard round; or put a tea-cupful of cream 
into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, 
half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. 

Somersetshire Firmity. 
To a quarter of ready boiled wheat, put by degrees two 
quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four 
ounces of currants picked clean, and washed : stir them 
and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, 
and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk; 
add this to the wheat ; stir them together while over the 
fire ; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some 
persons like it best warm. 



!88 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Curds and Cream, 

Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little w 
and then add rennet orgallino. When the curd is co 
lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of 
any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drainB off, 
without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only 
two hours before wanted, it is very light; hut those who 
like it harder, may have it so, by making it earlier, and 
squeezing it. Cream, milk,, or a whip of cream, sugar, 
wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a glass 
bowl, to serve with the curd. 

Another W <iy. — To four quarto of new milk warmed, 
put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, ac- 
cording to its sourness ; keep the pan covered until the 
curd be of firmness to cut 3 or4 times across witha sau- 
cer, as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and fill 
up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with 
cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. 
A Curd Star. 

Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or 
three blades of mace; and, when ready to boil, put to it 
the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and aa 
much salt as will lie upon a Bmall knife's point. Let it 
boil till the whey is clear ; then drain it in a thin cloth, 
or hair sieve ; season it with sugar, or a little cinnamon, 
rose-wnter, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your 
taste ; and put it into a star form, or any other. Let it 
stand some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then 
put round it thick cream or custard. 

Blanc-mange, or Blamange. 

Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water 
half an hour; strain it to a pint and a half of cream ; 
sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter 
almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms 
you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass 
will do. Observe to let the blamange Bettle before you 
turn it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the 
bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamange 
when taken out of the moulds. 




SWBET DISHES. 189 
J aunematige. 

Pour a pint of boiling water over 2 oz. of isinglass, 
and when it is dissolved add three quarters of a pint of 
white wine, the juice of two oranges, and one lemon, 
the peel of a lemon shred fine, sweeten this to your 
taste, and add the yolks of eight eggs, let it simmer 
gently, strain and pour it into moulds. Turn out next 
day. 

An excellent Trifle. 

Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of 
your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will 
suck up ; which, when they have done, pour on them 
cold rich custard made with more ey<j$ than directed in. 
the foregoing pages, and some rich flour. It must stand 
two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of rasp- 
berry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip 
made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of two 
well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and raisin wine, 
well beat with a whisk, kept only to whip syllabubs and 
creams. If made the day before used, it has quite a 
different taste, and is Bulid and far better. 
Gooseberry or Apple Trifle. 

Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, 
when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer 
at the bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rind of 
half a lemon grated fine ; and to both as much sugar as 
will be pleasant. 

Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the 
yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and stir 
it all the time ; don't let it boil ; add a little sugar only, 
and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a 
spoon ; and then put on it a whip made the day before, 
as for otber Trifle. 

Cfiantilhj Cake, or Cake Trifle. 

Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it 
round about two inches from the edge with a sharp 
knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put iu 
a thick custard, and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry 
jam, and then put on a whip. 



I9i l 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Gooxeber-f Fool. 
Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon 
sugar ; set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan of water 
over the fire ; if the former, a large spoonful of water 
should be added to the fruit. When it is dune enough 
to pulp, press it through a colander; have ready a suffi- 
cient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, 
boiled together ; or an egg instead of the latter, and 
left to be cold ; then sweeten it pretty well with 
Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it. 

Apple FooL 

Stew apples as directed lor gooseberries, and then 
peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c. and mix 
as before. 

Orange Fool. 

Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well 
beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, 
and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow 
fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted 
butter, but it must not be boiled ; then pour it into a 
dish for eating cold. 

A Cream. 

Boil half a pintof cream, and half a pint of milk, with 
two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds 
beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, 
orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of flour, hav- 
ing been rubbed down with a little cold milk, and 
mixed with the above. "When cold, put a little lemon- 
juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade- 
glasses. 

An excellent Cream. 
Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream 
to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, 
a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and 
sugar, to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on 
a Bieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and 
ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in 
tiu shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, 



STVEET DISHES. 



191 



over which sugar may be strewed, or a light glaze 
with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons, to line 
the edge of the diBh. 

Burnt Cream, 

Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and 
some lemon-peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very 
slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold' 
sweeten, aud take out the spice, he. ; pour it into the 
dish ; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and 
brown it with a salamander, 

Another tmy. — Make a rich custard without sugar, 
boiling lemon-peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal 
of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a 
salamander. 

Sack Cream. 

Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well 
beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and 
lemon-peel ; stir it over a gentle fire, till it be as thick 
as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it 
in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. 
Brandy Cream, 

Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded 
bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it 
the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, 
sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy ; 
and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream : 
set it over the fire, but don't let it boil ; stir one way 
till it thickens, then pour into cups, or low glasses. 
When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be 
put in each, if you choose it, if you wish it to keep, 
scald the cream previously. 

Ratafia Cream. 

Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves, 
in a lull pint of cream ; strain it ; aud when cold, add 
the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and 
a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald 
till thick, stirring it all the time. 

Another nay. — Mix half a auarter of a pint of ratafia 



11* 'DOMESTIC COOKETIY. 

the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two 
or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much 
sugar as will make it pleasantly-flavoured. Beat it 
with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This cream 
will keep eight or ten days. 

Lemon Cream. 

Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of 
two eggs well beaten, four ounces oi fine sugar, and the 
thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up ; then stir it till almost 
cold ; put the juice of a lemon in a dials or bowl, and 
pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. 
Yellow JLemon-crtam, wiihaut Cream. 

Pare four lemons very thin into twelve large spoonfuls 
of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely 
pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs n-ell; add 
the peels and juice beaten together for some time: theft 
strain it through a thumel into a silver or very nice block- 
tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one 
Way till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, 
or it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few 
lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons 
beime they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so 
thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will 
attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. 

White Lemnn crenm 

Is made the same as the above; only put the whites of 
the eggs in lieu of the yolks, w hisking it extremely well 
to froth. 

Imperial Cream. 

Boil a quart of cream with the thin riud of a lemon, 
then stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or 
howl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons 
strained wilha9 much sugar as will sweeten the cream; 
which pour into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it 
high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It 
should be made at least six hours before it be served, 
and will be still better if a day. 



SWEET DISHES. 



193 



Almond Cream. 

Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, 
in a mortar, with a tea -spoonful of water to prevent 
oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to a 
quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons 
sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which 
take off on the Bhallow part of a sieve ; fill glasses with 
some of the liquor and the froth. 

Snow Cream, 

Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well 
beaten, four spoonfuls of Bweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon -peel ; whip it to a froth* 
remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 

Coffee Cream, muck admired. 

Boil a calf's foot in water till it wastes to a pint of 
jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of 
very strong coffee ; clear it with ■ bit of isinglass to be 
perfectly bright j pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of 
very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is 
pleasant ; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. 

It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your 
coffee be fresh. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of 
the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of BUgar ; 
boil and mill it ; when quite smooth, take it off, and 
leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. 
Whisk ; and take up the froth on sieves, as others are 
done ; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some 
of the cream. 

Cndfin Cream. 
Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat them in a 
mortar, with a pint of cream : strain it into a dish ; and 
put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. 
ytir it well. 

/Excellent Orange Cream, 
Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it 
fine in amortar ; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy. 



194 DOMESTIC COOKERY 

the juice of a Seville orange, four ounce* ofloaf sugar, 
and the yolks off'our eggs; bent all together for ten mi- 
nutes; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling 
cream; beat till cold ; put into custard-cups set into 
a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till 
cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring 
cut thin, or preserved chips. 

Kaspberry Cream. 

Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain; then 
sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more 
juice ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten 
it ; alter which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, 
it will not curdle ; which it would, if put to the milk be- 
fore the cream; but it is best made of raspberry -jelly, 
instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. 

AnoOter may. — Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings 
in three pints of cream ami new milk mixed, tor filYeen 
minutes, or until the former be melted : Btrain it through 
a hair- si eve into a basin; when cool put about half a 
pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and 
cream ; atir it till well incorporated ; sweeten, and add 
a glass of brandy ; whisk it about till three parts cold ; 
then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer 
use the fresh juice ; in winter, syrup of raspberries 
Spinach Cream. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or 
a whisk , sweeten them a good deal ; and put to them 
a stick of cinnamon, apint of rich cream, three quarter 
of a pint of new milk ; stir it well ; then add a quarter 
of a pint of spinach juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and 
stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty 
pudding. Put into a custard dish some Naples biscuits, 
or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the 
mixture over them. It is to be eaten cold; and is a 
dish either for supper, or for a second course. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; beat them fine 
with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of 
cream ; sweeteu ; let it just boil, -yd put it into glasses. 



?m 

m 




sweet msjiKs !95 

Clouted Cream. 

String fourbladeB of mace on a thread ; put them to a 
gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose-water ; simmer 
a few minutes ; then by degreeB stir this liquor strained 
into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the 
whole into a quart oi'very good, cream, and set it over the 
fire ; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pour it into a 
deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve 
it in a cream dish, to eat with fruits. Many people 
prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream ; in 
which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or 
do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. 

When done enough, a round mark will appear on the 
surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it 
is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and 
when that is seen, remove the pan from the lire. 
A froth to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle, which looks and 
eats tcelL 

Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any 
other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whiteB of four 
eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will 
stand as high as you choose; iind being put on the 
cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form; it 
should be rough, to imitate a rock. 

A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats. 

Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar intbree 
or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of 
lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper untinned skillet ; 
when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, 
and put that into a pint-basin of water, squeeze the sugar 
from the- spoon into it, and so on till you have all the 
sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and 
is brittle when cold, it is done enough ; but only let it 
be three parts cold, when pour the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on 
it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may 
put it on the dish it is to cover ; but if on trial the 
sugar is not brittle, pour off' the water, and return it 



1.06 



HOMEST7C COOKERT. 



into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick 
like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a 
most elegant cover. 

Calfs Feet Jelly. 

Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the 
feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and^ 
when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from 
the sediment ; then put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar 
raisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemo 
peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites 
five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the 
sauce-pan on the Are, but don't stir the jelly after it be- 
gins to warm. Let it boil twent y minutes after it rises 
to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first 
dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and 
squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and 
through till clear; then put it into glasses or forms. 

The following mode will greatly facilitate the cl 
ing of jelly: When the mixture has boiled twen 
minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil 
live minutes longer ; then take the sauce-pan off the 
tire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which, 
it will be so clear as to need only once running through 
the bag, and much waste will be saved. 

Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by 
people who sell them, that they are less nutritious 
they should be only scalded to take off the hair. T 
liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; 
but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow 
more water. Note : jelly is equally good made of cow- 
heels nicely cleaned ; and as they benr a less price than 
those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this obser- 
vation may be useful. 

Another sort, — Boil four quarts of water with three 
calf's feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scald- 
ed, till half wasted; take the jelly from the fat and 
sediment ; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and 
twelve lemons, the peels ot three ditto, the whites and 
■hells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint 



SWEET DISHES. 



197 



of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter 
of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, 
all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. 
The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; 
then clear it through a flannel bag. While running 
take a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of water, 
in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it 
through the bag when all the rest is run out ; and this 
is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate ; 
but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine 
high colour and flavour. 

Orange Jelly. 

Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, 
and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each, 
and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of 
lump sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil 
till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass- 
jelly made with two ounces ; put to it the syrup, and 
boil it once up ; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to 
settle as above, before it is put into the mould. 
Hartshorn JeUy. 
Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with two 
quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it with the 
rinds of four China oranges and twolemons pared thin; 
when cold, add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, 
and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth : let the 
jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain 
it through a jelly bag. 

Cranberry J elly. 
Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix 
it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed as 
directed in page 229, sweeten and boil it up ; then 
strain it into a shape. 

The sugar must be good loaf or the jelly will not be 
clear. 

Cranberry and Rice Jelly, 
Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees 
mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, 



DOMESTIC COOKEI1T. 



thicken to a jelly ; boil ) t gently, stirring it, and sweeten 
to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to 
eat as the afore-directed jelly, with milk or cream. 
Apple Jelly to serve at table. 
Prepare twenty golden pippins ; boil them in a pint 
and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender; 
then strain the liquor through a colander. To every 

[>int put a pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or 
ernon ; then boil to a jelly. 

Another. — Prepare apples as before by boiling and 
straining ; have ready half an ounce of isinglass Boiled 
in half a pint of water to a jelly ; put this to the apple 
water, and apple as strained through a coarse sieve ; 
add sugar, a little lemon-juice and peel; boil all 
together, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. 
To teatd Codling. 
Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a 
nice sauce-pan ; and when full, pour as much water as 
will cover them. Set it over a gentle tire, and let them 
Bimmer slowly till done enough to take the thin Bkin off 
when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without 
milk, cream, or custard ; if the latter, there should be 
no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the apples. 

Stewed Golden Pippins. 

Scoop out the core, pare them very fine, and as you 
do it, throw them in water. For every pound of fruit, 
make half a pound of single-refined sugar in syrup, 
with a pint of water; when skimmed, put the pippins 
in, and stew till clear; then grate lemon over, and 
serve in the syrup, lie careful not to let them break. 

They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or 
desert. 

Black Cups. 

Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in 
a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. 
Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it 
for sauce 

Another may. — Take off a slice from the stalk end of 



SWEET DISHES. 



199 



some apples, and core without paring them. Make 
ready as much sugar aa may be sufficient to sweeten 
thern, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few 
cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holea as close as pos- 
sittle with this, and turn the flat end down on a stew- 
pan ; set them on a very slow fire, wilh half of raisin 
wine, and the same of water ; cover them close, and 
now and then baste them with the liquor ; when don« 
enough, black the tops with a salamander. 

Stewfd Pears. 
Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, according to 
their size ; throw them into water, aa the skin is taken 
off before they are divided, to prevent their turning 
black. Pack them round a block-tin stew-pan, and 
sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty 
sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or two, and some 
allspice cracked ; just cover them with water, and put 
some of the red liquor, as directed in another article. 
Cover them close, and stew three or four hourB ; when 
tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. 

Baked Pears, 

These need not be of a fine sort : but some taste bet- 
ter than others, and often those that are least fit to eat 
raw. "Wipe, but don't pare, and lay them on tin-plates, 
and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear 
it, flatten them with a silver-spoon. "When done 
through, put them on a dish. They should be baked 
three or fbur times, and very gently. 

Orange Butler. 

Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar with two 
ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two 
ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten 
with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, rub 
it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits 
between. 

fFine Roll. 

Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it will 
.old no more; put it in the dish, and pour round it a 



*» 



L I1UV 

main 
hthe 



200 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

custard or cream, sugar, and lemon juice. Just before 
it be served, sprinkle over it some nonpariel comfits; 
or stick a few blancbed slit almonds into it. 

Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll. 
To prepare Fruit for Vhiidreit, a far morn wholesome way 
than in Pies and Puddings. 

Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, 
ttc. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon 
sugar as necessary among them ; set the jar on a hot 
hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let it re 
till the fruit is perfectly done. 

Slices of bread, or rice, may he either stewed with 
fruit, or added, when eaten ; the rice being plain boiled. 

7*o prepare Ice for feeing. 
Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, 
throw a large handful and a half of salt among it. You 
must prepare it in a part of the house whereas little of 
the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. Tha 
ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an 
ice-pot, and cover it ; immerse it in the ice, and draw 
that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part' 
In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it 
well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the 
centre. If the ice-cream or water be in a form, shut 
the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you 
cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. 
There should be holes in the bucket, to let off the i 
as it thaws. 

Note. When any fluid tends towards cold, th 
moving it quickly accelerates the cold : and likewise, 
when any fluid is tending to beat, Btirring it wi 
facilitate its boiling. 

lee fVatets. 

Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the 
colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on 
its respective peel ; add wntcr and sugar to make a fine 
sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. 
If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China 



ill 



SWEBT DISHES. 



201 



juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the 
peel grated by the sugar. 

Currant or Raspberry Water Ice. 
The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being 
gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, 
will be ready for iceing, 

lee Creams. 

Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as 
will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be 
of a middling richness. 

Brown Bread Ice. 

Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a 
small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten 
and ice it. 

Ratafia Cream. 

Blanch a \ oz. of bitter almonds, and beat them with 
a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar ; then rub 
with the paste two ounces of lump-sugar, and simmer 
ten minutes with a tea-cuptul of cream, which add to a 
quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it. 
Colourings to Stain Jellies, Jces, or Cakes, 

For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in 
the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream ot 
tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. 
Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use 
beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over- 

For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little 
drop of water : or use cream. 

For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped 
m the liquor and squeezed. 

For green, pound spinach-leaves or beot-lenves, 
express the juice, and boil-in a tea-cupful in a sauce- 
pan of water to take of? the rawness. 

London Syllabub. 

Put a pint and half of port or white wine into a bowl, 
nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into 
it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be 



202 DOMESTIC COOKF.HY. 

not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity 
of milk.— In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on. the 
top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. 

Staffordshire Syllabub. 
Put a pint of cyder, and a glass of brandy, sugar and 
nutmeg, into a bowl, and mix into it ; or pour warm 
milk from a large tea-pot borne height into it. 

./ reryjivt Sinner \el shire Syllabub, 
In u large China bowl put a pint of port, and a pint 
of sherry, or other white wine ; sugar to taste. Milk 
the bowl full. In twenty minutes time cover it pretty 
high with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, put 
pounded cinnamon and nonpariel comfits. 

Devonshire Junket, 
Put warm milk into a bowl ; tuni it with rennet ; then 
put some scalded cream, sugar and cinnamon, on the 
top, without breaking the curd. 

Everlasting, or Solid, Syllabubs. 
Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined 
sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan j 
put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. 
Beat, or whisk it one way hall' an hour ; then put it on 
a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the 
shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will 
keep good, in a cool place, ten days. 

Lemon Honeycomb. 
Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put 
it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of 
an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a 
little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on 
the lemon-juice. Doit the day before it is to be used. 

Rice and Sago Mil ft s 
Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering 
with milk over a slow lire till sufficiently done. The 
former sort requires lemon, spice and sugar ; the latter 
is good without any thing to flavour it. 



SWEET DISHES 



203 



A pretty Supper Dish. 
Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it in 
milk, till tender: strain off the milk, lay the rice in 
little heaps on a dish, strew over them BOme finely 
powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine 
and a Little butter into the dish. 

Savoury It ice. 

"Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a 
small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an 
onion, ablade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, 
but not boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a 
sieve before the fire, and either serve it dry, or put it 
in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, 
having heated it. 

Carrole of Rice. 
Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it 
five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- 
pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an 
onion. Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have 
ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon : mix 
the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then 
line the bacon with it about half an inch thick; put into 
it ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. 
Fill up the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake 
it iti a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to 
table in a good gravy or curry-sauce. 
Casserol, or Hice Edging, see page 126. 

Salmagundy 

Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the co- 
lours ofthe ingredients are varied. For this purpose chop 
separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of 
eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs ; parsley, half a do- 
zen anchovies, beet- root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and 
grated tongue, or any thing well-flavoured, and of a good 
colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, 
but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, 
or any other base, must be put into a small dish ; then 
make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller 



201 



DOMRSTIO COOKERY. 



towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each 
row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little 
sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without any 
thing on the dish, the sahnagundy may he laid in rows, 
or put into the half- whites of eggs, which may be made to 
stand upright by cutting oil a bit at the round end . In the 
latter case, each half egg has but one ingredient. Curled 
butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. 
Macaroni att usualtu terved. 

Boil it in milk, or n weak veal broth, pretty well flu- 
voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with- 
out the liquor, ami among it put some bits of butter and 
grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little 
more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter 
of an hiiur, but do not let the top become hard, 

jinothcr ivay — Wash it well, and simmer in half 
milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. 
To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten 
in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to ibirL-n, but 
not boil : put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine 
old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the 
salamander. — Another : Wash the macaroni, then sim- 
mer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and 
salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay 
it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then covef 
that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter with- 
out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little 
earthen colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in 
a Dutch oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread 
of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated 
crumbs, and look light. 

Omlet. 

Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little flour; 

tmt to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the 
atter is best) or a very small quantity of shalot, a little 
pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg, Make some 
butter boil in a small frying-pan, and pour the above 
batter into it when one side is of a fine yellow brown, 
turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some 



STVEET DISHES. 



205 



scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a 
very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty 
sized omlet; but many cooks will use eight or ten. A 
Bmall proportion of flour shoul J be used. 

If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine 
flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. 

Ramakins and omlet, though usually served in the 
course, would be much better if they were sent up after, 
that they might be eaten as hot as possible. 

Butter to serve as a little Disk. 

Roll butter in different forms; either like a pine, and 
make the marks with a tea-spoon, or roll it in crimping 
roller's, work it through a colander, or scoop with a 
tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue or ancho- 
vies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. 
Ramafcins. 

Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of 
Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter ; then beat 
all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the in- 
side af a small French roll boiled in cream till soft; mix 
the paste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, 
and put into small paper pans made rather long than 
square, and bake in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. 
They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the addition 
of a glass of white wine. — The batter for ramakins is 
equally good over macaroni when boiled tender ; or on 
stewed brocoli, celery, or cauliflower, a little of die 
gravy they have been stewed in being put iu the dish 
with them, but not enough to make the vegetable swim. 
Fondu. 

Take equal quantities of grated parmesan and good 
Cheshire cheese, and add about double the weight of 
this in beaten yolk of eggs and melted butter, beat 
well together, add pepper and salt and then put to it the 
whites of the eggs, which have been beaten separately ; 
stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, fill 
only half full, aB it will rise very much. Serve quite 
hot. 



208 



DOMESTIC CQOKEfir. 



Potted Cheese. 

Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, one 
ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white 
pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, ana a glass of white 
wine. Press it down in a deep pot. 

Roast Cheese to eome up after Dinner. 

Grate 3 ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the 
yolks of 2 eggs, 4 ounces of grated bread, and 3 ounces of 
butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a desert- 
spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast 
some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as 
above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven 
covered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, 
<uid let the cheese brown a little, Serveas hot as possible. 

Welch Rabbit. 

Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast 
a Blice of Gloucester cheeseon one side, and lay that next 
the bread, and toast the other with a salamander ; rub 
mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. 

Cheese Tocutt. — Mix some fine butter, made mustard, 
and salt, intoamasB ; spread iton fresh-made thin toasts, 
and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. 

^tnchoty Total. — Bone and skin 6 or 8 anchovies ; 
pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till 
the colour isequal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks, 

Another way. — Cut thin slices of bread into any form, 
and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies 
split, pound them in a monar with some fresh butter,rub 
them through a hair-sieve, and spread on the toast when 
cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay 
them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. 

To poach Egg*. — Set a stew-pan of water on the fire; 
when boiling, slip an egg, previously broken into a cup, 
into the water ; when the white looks done enough, slide 
an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast aud but- 
ter, or spinach. As soon as enough aredone, serve hot. 
If not fresh laid, they will not poacJ* 'veil, and without 



SWEET DISHES. 



207 



breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites, and 
make them look round. 

Buttered Eggs- 
Heat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a 
quarterof a pound of butter inahasin, and then put that 
in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour that butter 
and the eggs into a sauce-pan; keep a basin in your 
hand, just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a Blow 
part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm; 
pour it into a basin, and back, then hold it again over 
tut fire, stirringit constantly in the sauce-pan, and pour- 
ing it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and 
butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. 

Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat with 
salt fish, or red herrings. 

Scotch Eggs. 

Boil hard five pullets, eggs, and without removing the 
white, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, 
iu which, let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy bear a 
due proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, and 
serve with a good gravy in the dish. 

A Pepper-pot. 

To three quarts of water, put such vegetables as you 
choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or 
three onions j in winter, carrot, turnip, onionB, and ce- 
lery. Cut them very small, and stew them with two 
pounds of neck of mutton, and apoundofpickied pork, 
till quite tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a 
lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. 
Some people choose very small suet-dumplings boiled 
in the above. Season with salt and Cayenne. 

Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. Pepper-po> 
may be made of various things, and is understood to bt 
a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables,and pulse. 
A small quantity of riceshould be boiled with the whole. 
The Staffordshire Dish of frying Herb* and Liver, 

Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among 
the vegetables, page 176 ; on which lay slices of liver 
fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed 



208 DOMESTIC COOKKUV. 

at the fire, and laid on each, On the outside part of 
the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed 
round ; or they may be nerved on the herbs, aad the 
I [vi. i garnished with the bacon separately. 

Toprtterve Suet a Twelvemonth. 

An soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and 
pick free from skin and veins. In a verv ii ice sauce- 
pan, set it at some distance from the fire, that it may 
melt without frying, or it will taste. 

When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When 
in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, told it in fine paper, 
nnd then in a linen bag, and keep in a dry but not ho* 
place. When used, scrape it fine, and it will make a 
fine crust, either w:.h or without butter. 



mv kkTM ' i v 



To green Fruit* far prenerving or pickling. 
Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches while 
green for the first, or radish-pode, French bean* for the 
latter, and cucumbers for both processes; and put them, 
with vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin pre- 
serving-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and then 
the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the aide of a 
fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour 
off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when 
cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully 
with a slice; they are to be peeled, and then done ac- 
cording to the receipts fur the several modes. 

To clarify Sttgar for Sweetmeat!. 
Break as much as required in large lumps, and put a 
pound to half a pint of w ater, in a bowl, and it will dis- 
solve better than when broken small. Set it over the fire, 
and the well-whipt white of an egg ; let it boil up, and, 
when ready to run over, pour a little cold water in to give 
it a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the 
fire, and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, 
during tcltich the foulness will sink to the bottom, and 
e»ve a bla^k scima on the top, which takeoff gently with 



SWEETMEATS. 



209 



a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very 
quickly from the sediment. 

To candy any sort of Fruit. 

When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new 
sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the 
syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before 
the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. 
Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over 
the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the 
shallow end of sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. 
Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. 

To prepare Barberries for Tartlets. 

Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, 
and to every pound weigh three quarters of a pound of 
lump-sugar : put the fruit into a atone jar, and either set 
it on a hot hearth or in a sauce-pan of water, and let 
them simmer very slowly till soil; put them and the 
sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen 
minutes. Use no metal but silver. 

Barberries in bunches. 

Have ready bits of flat white wood, three inches long, 
and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the 
fruit on the stick from within an inch of one end to 
beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. 
Simmer them in some syrup two successive days, co- 
vering them each time with it when cold. When they 
look clear they are simmered enough. The third day, 
do them like other candy fruit: see receipt for it above. 
It is at the top of this page. 

A beautiful Prexerve of Apricots. 

When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them as 
this as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves 
on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready 
an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and 
strew it over them ; in the 'mean time break the stones, 
and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve 
hours, put it, with the augur and juice, and also the ker- 
nels, into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer very gently 



210 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



till clear ; then take out the pieces of apricot* singly at 
they become so; put them into small pots, ami pour 
syrup and kernels over them. The scum must betaken 
off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper. 

To preserve dpricots inJeliy. 

Pare the fruit very thin, and atone it; weigh an equal 
quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. 
Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them 
into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following 
day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by 
boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; let it 
boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and 
give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. 
To preserve green Apricots. 

Lay vine nr npricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, 
then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer 
being thick with leaveB; then fill with spring-water, and 
cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan 
at a distance from the fire, tha t in four or fi vc hours they 
may be only soft, butnot cracked. Make a thin syrup 
of some of the water, and drain the fruit. When both 
are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; 
putthcpan at a proper distance from the fire til] the apri- 
cots green, but on ijo account boil or crack ; remove 
them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or 
three days ; then pour off as much of it as will be neces- 
sary, and boil with more Bugar to make a rich syrup, 
and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the 
(Am syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the 
thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. 

Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. 
Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a 
quarter of the weight of fine sugar in find powder. Put 
the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close; throw the 
sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy, be- 
tween the top and cover of the pot, put apiece of double 
cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the 
brandy be as hot us you can possibly bear to put your 



SWEETMEATS. 



211 



finger in. but it must not boil. Put the fruit into ajar, 
and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder 
over, and tie it down tight. 

To dry Apricots in half. 

Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weighing 
them after; put them in a dish ; strew among them three 
pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, 
set the fruit over a stove to do very gently; as each 
piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a 
china-bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat 
a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a dayor 
two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. 
In a day or two more turn them, and so continue daily 
till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in 
boxes with layers of paper. 

Apricot Cheese. 

Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, 
wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or 
the colour will be spoiled; blanch the kernels, and add 
to it. Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it 
in small pots or cups half filled. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Hasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds 
very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil 
three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and 
add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very 
thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp 
and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint 
of apple-liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which 
it will be in about half an hour. Put it into smalt pots. 

Lemon marmalade do in the same way ; they are 
very good and elegant sweetmeats. 

Transparent Marmalade. 

Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters, take the 
pulp out, and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds and 
skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a little salt 
all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring- 
water till tender; drain and cut them in very thin slices, 



2 1 2 DOMESTIC CnOKEJiV. 



: 

and put them to the pulp: and to every pound, a pound 
and a half of double-refined sugar beaten fine ; boil them 
together twenty minutes, but be cnreful not to break the 
(dices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes 
longer. It must be stirred the time very gently. 
When cold, put it into glasses. 

JL To butter Oranges hot. 

Grate off a little of the outside rind of four Seville 
oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end opposite 
the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp and seeds and 
juice: then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp; rub 
the oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a 
short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the 
fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting 
the water to take nut the bitterness. In the meantime, 
make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges 
into it, and boil them up; turning them round, that each 
part may partake of the syrup, as there need uot be 
enough to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till 
they are to be served. About half an hour before you want 
them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire; 
mix it well, and let it boil ; then odd a spoonful of white 
wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a 
bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken; fill 
the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the 
syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. 

To/ill preserved Orange* ; a corner Dish. 
For five take a pound of Naples biscuits, someblanch- 
ed almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your 
taste, four ounces of butter warmed, grate the biscuits, 
and mix with the above and some orange-flower water. 
Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. 
If you like them froBted, sift sugar over them as soon 
as filled; otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do 
as well ; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put 
it in when become cold. 

Whole Oranges carved. 
Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a pen- 
knife; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an 



SWEETMEATS. 



213 



apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out ; put them 
into salt and water 2 days, changing it daily; boil them 
an hour or more in fresh salt and water; drain them 
quite dry; let them stand a night more in plain water, 
and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil 
them the next day a few minutes. Do this four days 
successively. Let them stand six or seven weeks, ob- 
serving often whether they keep well; otherwise boil 
the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. 

Buttered Orange-juice, a cold disk. 

Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with 4 spoon- 
fuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of 
eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten; then strain 
the liqour to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it over 
a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about 
the size of a small walnut of butter, keep it over the 
fire a few minutes longer ; then pour it into a flat dish, 
and serve it to eat cold . 

If you have no silver sauce-pan, do it in a china- 
basin in a sauce-pan of boiling water, the top of which 
will just receive the basin. 

Orajige Chips. 

Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a 
sieve; soak the peel in water; next day boil in the same 
till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to 
the juice, weigh as much sugar,and putaltogether into 
a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate 
distance, often stirring till the chips candy ; then set 
them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under 
three weeks. 

Orange Bis cutis, or little Cakes. 

Boil whole Seville oranges in 2 or 3 waters, till most 
of the bitterness is gone ; cut them, and take out the 
pulp and juice; then beat the outside very fine in a 
mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double-refined 
sugar beaten and sifted. W hen extremely well mixed to 
I paste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in 
the sun, or before the fire ; when half dry, cut it into 



DOMESTIC COOKBUY. 



what form you please, turn tlie other side up, and dry 
that. Keep them in a box, with layers of paper. 

They are for deserts ; ant] are also useful as a stomachic, 
to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen 
when shooting, and for gouty stomach*. 

Ora»ge-Jl«u>er Caket, 

Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold 
water for an hour ; drain, and put between napkins, and 
roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; then have 
ready boiled 1 lb. of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, 
e !ve them a simmer, until the syrup adheres to the sides 
of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry at 
before directed. 

To preserve Oranges or Lemons in J elfy. 

Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and 
with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear 
without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, 
and lay them in spring-water 2 days, changing twice 
a day ; in the last boil them tender on a bIow fire. Ob- 
serve that there is enough at first to allow for wasting; 
as they must be covered to the last. To every pound 
of fruit, weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and 
one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the 
juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well, 
and let it stand to be cold; then boil the fruit in the 
syrup half an hour ; if not clear, do this daily till they 
are done. 

Fare and core some green pippins, and boil in water 
till it tastes strong of them ; don't break them, only 
gently press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the 
water through a jelly-bag till quiteclear; then to every 
pint put a pound of double refined sugar, the peel and 
juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off 
the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with 
the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple jelly over it. 
The bits cut out must go through the same procesi 
with the fruit, Cover with brandy paper. 



SWEETMEATS, 



215 



To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, Sre, 
When you squeeze the fruit, tli row the outside in water, 
without the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fort- 
night, adding no more ; boil them therein till tender, 
strain it from them, and when they are toltrably dry, 
throw them into any jar of candy you may have remain- 
ing from old sweetmeats ; or if you have none, boil a 
Bmall quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water 
and put over them ; in a week or ten days boil them 
gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be 
covered with it in the jar. You may cut each half of 
the fruit in two, and they will occupy small space. 
To preserve Strawberries whole. 

Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined 
sugar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half 
the BUgar in fine powder over; give a gentle shake to 
the dish, that the sugar may touch the underside of the 
fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder 
of the augitr, and, instead of water, allow one pint of 
red-currant-juice to every pound of strawberries; in 
this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Chnose 
the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe. In 
either of the above ways, they eat well served in thin 
cream, in glasses. 

To preserve Strawberries tn Wine, 

Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a 
goose berry -bottle, and strew in three large spoons of 
fine BUgar ; fill up with Madeira wine, or Que sherry. 
To dry Cherries with sugar. 

Stone six pounds of Kentish ; put them into a pre- 
serving-pan, with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded 
and strewed among them ; simmer till they begin 
to shrivel; then strain them from the juice ; lay them 
on a hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool 
enough to dry without baking them. 

The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. 
Tn dry Cherries without Sugar. 

Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving- 
pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake 



16 DOMESTIC C0OKBHT. 

them in the pan. Put them by in china coram 
dishes ; next day give them another scald, and put 
them, when cold, on sievt-s to dry, in an oven of at- 
temperated heat as above, Twire heating, an hour 
each time, will do them. 

Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. 
To dry Cherries the best icay. 

To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of 
sugar double refined. Put the fruit into the preservij^- 
p.m with very little water ; make both scalding hot ; 
take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them 
into the pan again, strewing the sugar between each 
layer of cherries ; let it stand to melt; then set the pan 
on the fire, and make it scalding hot as before : take it 
off, and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Drain them 
from the syrup ; and lay them Bingly to dry on dishes, 
in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them into u 
Sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it in- 
stantly out a^iiin, and pour ilium on u line soft cloth ; 
dry them, and set them once more in the hot sun, or on 
a stove. Keep them in a box, with layers of white 
paper, in a dry place. This way is the best to give 
plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. 
(Jherriet in Brandy. 

Weigh the finest morel las, having cut off half the 
Stalk prick them with anew needle, and drop them into 
a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters 
the weight of sugar or white candy : strew over ; fill up 
with brandy, and tie a bladder over. 

Cherry Janu 

To twelve pounds of Kentish or dukecherries, when 
ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; break the stones of 
part, and blanch them ; then put them to the fruit and 
sugar and boil all gently, till the jam comes clear from 
the pan. Pour it into china-plates to come up dry to 
table. Keep in boxes with white paper between. 
(Jurrattt Jam, black, red, or white. 

Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean, from the stalks, 



SWEETMEATS. 



217 



bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a 
pound of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil half an hour. 
Currant Jelly, red or black. 
Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar strew them in a 
sauce-pan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth ; 
strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of 
loaf sugar ; put the latter in large lumps in to it, in a stone 
or china-vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a 
preserving-pan; Bimmerand skim as necessary. When 
it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. 
Apple Marmalade. 

Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then 
take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip 
them in water, and boiling it till it can be well skimmed, 
and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and simmer it 
on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon- 
peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. 

Apple Jelly for preserving Apricots, or for any sort of 
SweetmeaU. 

Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored ; put them 
into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them ; 
boil as fast as possible; when the fruit is all in a mash, 
add a quart of water; boil half an hour more, and run 
through a jelly -bag. 

If in summer, codlins are best; in September, gol- 
den rennets or winter-pippins. 

Red Apples in J elly. 

Pare and core some well-shaped apples ; pippins or 
golden rennets if you have ihera, but others will do; 
throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a 
preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half 
cover them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side 
in done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too 
close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochineal 
with the water, and boil with the fruit. When suffici- 
ently done, take them out on the dish they are to be 
served in, the stalkdownwards. Take the water, and 
make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin 



218 



DOMESTIC COOKERY", 



rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let 
it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples ; cut 
the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across 
the eye of the apple. 

Observe that the colour be 6ne from the first, or the 
fruit will not afterwards gain it : and use as little of the 
cochineal aB will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. 
Dried Apples. 

Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flat' 
ten thom by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to 
bear it. If the oven be too hot they will waste; and at 
lirst it should be very cool. 

The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are 
the sorts for drying. 

7'n prcwrre jar^ancl I'enrs most lenntifuUtf. 

Pare them very thin, and simmer ina thin syrup ; let 
them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and 
simmer again; and repeat this till they are clear; tben 
drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very 
little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried n« 
wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. 
GooxeberryJamfor Tartt. 

Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when 
ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a preserving-pan, 
with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly ; let them 
boil pretty quick, and beat them with the spoon ; when 
they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure 
white Lisbon sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It 
requires long boiling, or will not keep; but is an ex- 
cellent and reasonable thing for tarts or puffs. Look 
at it in two or three days, and if the syrup and fruit 
separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful 
it does not burn to the bottom. 

Another. — Gather your gooseberries (the clear white 
or green sort) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them; 
a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and 
half a pint of water ; boil and skim the sugar and water ; 
then put the fruit, and boil geutly till clear; then break 
and put into small pots. 



SWEETMEATS, 



219 



fVhite Gooseberry Jam. 
Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you 
choose, when just ripe ; top and tail them. To each 
pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and 
half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the 
water as directed in page 208 ; then add the fruit; sim- 
mer gently till clear, then break, it, and in a few minutes 
put the jam into small pots. 

Gooseberry Haps. 
Of the largest green walnut kind, take and cut the bud 
end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole; pick 
out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten 
five or six together, by running the thread through the 
bottoms, till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine- 
leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan, cover them 
with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a 
good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop 
it so close down that no steam can get out, set it by a 
slow fire till scalding hot, then take it of? till cold, and 
*o do till on opening while cold, the gooseberries are of 
a good green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a 
thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, 
and skim it well ; when half cold, put in the fruity next 
day give it one boil; do this thrice'. If the hops are to 
be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they 
may be set to dry in a week ; lut if to be kept wet, make 
a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger 
in boiling; when skimmed and clear, give the goose- 
berries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If 
the first syrup be found too sour, a little sugar may be 
added and boiled in it, before the hops that are lor 
drying have their last boil. 

The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards 
other such meats. 

Raspberry Jam. 
Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; put the 
former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir cou- 
atantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the 
juice is wasted, add the sugar, aud simmer half an hour 



220 



DOMESTIC COOKBHT. 



This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and 
flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in it 
first. — Another wiy. — Put the fruit in ajar in a kettle 
of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from 
it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound 
of (ruit; boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in 
the weight of the fruit in sugar, and, adding the tame 
quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. 

The raspberry-juice will serve to [Hit into brandy, or 
may be boiled with its weight in augar for making the 
jelly or raspberry-ice or cream. 

To praserv* Greengage*. 
Choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split 
them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar 
which you have previously weighed an equal quannty 
of. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. 
Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it 
with the other sugar, aix or eight minutes, very gently ; 
skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till 
clear, taking off any scum that rises; put the fruit 
singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels 
to it. If von would candy it, do not add the syrup, 
but observe the directions that will be given for candy- 
ing fruit ; some may be done each way. 

Datnxon Oheett, 
Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan of 
water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, 
and to every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of 
sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil 
quickly till it begin to look dry; takeout the Btones, and 
add the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours 
slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of 
the pan candy ; pour the jam then into potting-pansor 
dishes, about an inch thick, bo that it may cut firm. If 
the skins he disliked, then the juice is not to be taken 
out; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped 
through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed 
as above. The stones are to be cracked , or some of them , 
and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be 



SWEETMEATS 



221 



lfTt in, ami boiled to evaporate, but don't add the sugar 
until it has done so. The above looks well iu shapes. 
Muscle-plum Cheese. 
Weigh 6 lbs. of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, re- 
move the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. 
Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good 
Lisbon : when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim 
it.andadd the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the 
juice ismuchevaporated t takiugcareto8tirit constantly, 
lest it burn. Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or 
saucers. The remaining juice may serve to colour 
cream, or be added to a pie. 

Biscuit x of Fruit. 

To the pulp of any scalded lruit put an equal weight 
of sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into little 
white paper forms, dry in ft cool oven, turn the next 
day, and in two or three davs box them. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Pare and quarter quinces, weujh an equal quantity of 
sugar; to 4 lbs. of the latter put a quart of water, boil 
and skim, and have ready against four pounds' of quinces 
are tolerably tender by the following mode : lay them 
into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, 
and pack them with a little sugar strewed between ■ 
cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, 
and let them soften till the colour become red, then pour 
the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a pre- 
serving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade be 
completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the pre- 
serving ladle. 

This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done aa above, 
it requires a great deal of time. 

Stewing quinces in ajar, and then squeezing them 
through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining 
the juice to arid^s above, and dip the cloth in boiling 
water first nnd wring it. 

To preserve wkole or half Quinces. 

Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the 
fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and uot 



222 



uOMKBTlC '-'OOKIIBT. 



pared, but wiped clean. Boil them very quick, close 
covered, till the water becomes a thick jelly ; thenscald 
the quinces. To every pint ofpippin-jelly puta pound 
of the finest sugar ; boil it, and skim it clear. Put those 
quinces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once, 
and let it boil very fast; and those that arc to be in halves 
by themselves ; skim it, and when the fruit are clear, put 
some of the syrup into a glass to try whether it jellies 
before taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to 
be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly 
already boiled with the sugar. 

Excellent Sweetmeat* far Tartu, when Fruit is plentiful. 

Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe; and take 
outnnd break the stones; putthe kernels without their 
skin to the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage 
plums, and two pounds and a half of lump sugar ; sim- 
mer until the fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be 
broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and 

^ded to the fruit over a slow fire. Observe that it 

oes not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be 
/larified it will make the jam better. 

Put it intosmall pots, in which all sweetmeats keep best. 
Magnum Bonum Plume : excellent ait a Sweetmeat or in 
Tarts, though very bad to eat raw. 
Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer 
them very gently in a tbin syrup, put them in a china 
bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three 
days; then make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar to five of 
fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of 
the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. 
Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first 
from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, 
and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one 
into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you 
may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in 
the pan, and boil it quickly ; thejn give the fruit one 
warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a 
cool oven. Thsee plums are apt to ferment, if not 
boiled in 2 syrups ; the former will sweeten pies, bu' 



SWEETMEATS. 223 

will have too ranch acid to keep. You may reserve part 
of it, and add a little sugar, to do those tliat are to dry, 
forthey will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, 
and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those 
Don't break them. One parcel may be done aftei 
another, and save much sugar. 

Lemon Drops. 

Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of 
double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, 
add halt* a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it 
into a light past* 1 with the white of an egg. Drop it 
upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven 
on a tin plate. 

Barberry Drops, 

The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit 
before the fire, till softenough to pulp with a silver spoon 
through a sieve into a china-basin ; then set the basin i i 
a sauce- pan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or 
on a hot hearth, and atir it till it grows thick. When 
cold, put to every pint a pound and a half of sugar, the 
finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a 
lawn-sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to 
prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and 
juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, 
but two and a half for less; then drop it on sheetaof white 
thick paper, the size of the drops Bold in the shops. 

Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is neces- 
sary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incor- 
porated, and then drop; if it run, there is not enough 
sugar, and if there is too much it will be rough. A dry 
room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch the 
juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop off the 
13d of the wooden spoon, and thenaslittie as possible. 
Ginger Drops : a good SiomacAic. 

Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, 
with a little sugar, to a paste ; then mix one ounce of 
powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. 
Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogether to 
• candy, and drop it on oaper the size of mint-drops. 



224 



DOMESTJC COOKERY. 



Peppermint Drops. 

Pound and sift four ounces oF double- refined sugar, 
beat it with the whitea of two eggs till perfectly smooth ; 
then add sixty drop* of oil of peppermint, beat it wetland 
drop on white paper, and dry nt a distance from the fire. 
Ratafia Drops. 

Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and 
two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of 
sugar *ifted,and add the remainder of the sugar, and the 
whitea of two eggs, making a paste; of which put little, 
balls, the size ol a nutmeg, on wafer-paper, aud bake 
gently on tin-plates. 

liaspherry (Jake*. 

Pick out any had raspberries that are among the fruit, 
weigh and boil what quantity you please, and when mash* 
ed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight 
of the fruityou first put into the pan, mix it well off 
fire until perfectly dissolved, then put it on china- 
places, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top par' 
dries, cut with the cover of a caniBter into small cakes, 
turn them on fresh plates, and, when dry, put them in 
boxes with layers of paper. 

TO PRESERVE FRUITS P0H WINTER U.1R, 
Observations on Sweetmeats. 

Sweetmeats should he kept carefully from the air, and 
in a very dry place. Unless they hnvea very small pro- 
portion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt; but when 
not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quick, 
heat makes them ferment j and damp causes them to 
grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three 
times in the first two months, that they may be gently 
boiled again, if not likely to keep. 

It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar 
more or less, constitutes the chief art of the confectioner, 
and those who are not practised in this knowledge, and 
only preserve in a plain way for family use, are not aware 
that, in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire will 
pass from one gradation to another, called by ihe confec- 
tiOMM decrees of bailing, of which there are six, and 



225 



the 



ibdivided. But I am not versed in the 



nuea, tsut i am not versea in me minutae, 
mid only make the observation to guard against under* 
boiling, which prevents sweetmeats from keeping : and 
quick boiling ami long, which brings them to a candy. 

Attention, without much practice, will enable a per- 
son to do any of the following sorts of sweetmeats, &c. 
and they are aB much as is wanted in a private family ; 
the higher articles of preserved fruits may be bought 
at less expence than made. 

Jellies of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar, 
that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. 

A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving; 
of double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the 
straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put 
by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will 
last for several years- Those of copper or brass are 
improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of 
the sweet-meat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with 
a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves 
and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. 

Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not con- 
nected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover 
them only with paper dipped in brandy, laid quite close ; 
putting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect 
mould. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried 
in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, 
whs-re there is not a regular stpve for the purpose, to 
put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the 
heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects 
off; or if put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too 
ivarm, and watch that they do properly and slowly. 
To Aee/t Cun'antu. 
The bottles being perfectly clean and dry let the 
currants be out from the large stalks wiLh the smallest 
hit of stalk to eacli, that the fruit not being wounded 
no moisture may be among 1 them. It is necessary to 
gather them when the weather is quite dry, and if the 
servant can be depended upon, it is beBt to cut them 
under the trees, and let them drop gently into the bottles. 



DOMESTIC COOK Ell Y. 




Stop up the buttles with cork and rosin, and put them 
into the trench in tiie garden with the neck downward a; 
stocks should be placed opposite to where each sort of 
fruit begins. 

Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. 

Currants may be scalded, us directed lor gooseber- 
ries, tbe first method. 

To hep Codlins for several months. 

Gather rod litis nt Midsummer of a middling size, 
put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling water over 
them, and cover the pan with cab huge- leaves. Kee 
them by the lire till they would peel, but don't peel ther 
then pour the water off till they are both quite col 
I 'lace the codlins then in a stone jar witha smallis 
mouth, uud pour on them the water that scalded tbei 
Cover tbe pot with bladder wetted, and tied very close, 
and then over it coarse paper tied again. 

It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be 
used at once when opened. 

To keep (Jooneberrias, 

Before they become too large, let them be gathered, 
and take care not to cut them in taking oil" the stalks at 
buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles : put the corks loosely 
in, and set the bottles up to tbe neck in water in a boiler. 
When the fruit looks scalded, take them out; and when 
perfectly cold, cork close, and rosin tbe top. Dig a 
trench in a part of the garden least used, sufficiently 
deep for all the bottleB to stand, and let the earth be 
thrown over, to cover them a foot and a half. When a 
frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will 
prevent the ground from hardening su that the fruit 
cannot be dug up. Or, scald as above ; when cold, flit 
the bottles with cold wnler, cork them, and keep them 
in a damp or dry place; they will uot be spoiled. 

Another tvay. — 1 n the size and preparation as above ; 
when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler 
or large kettle ; and into it put as much roach-alum as 
will, when dissolved, harden the water, which you will 



THESE RVES. 



227 



taste by a Utile roughness ; if there be loo much it will 
spoil the fruit. Put as mauy gooseberries into a large 
sieve aB will lie at the bottom without covering one ano- 
ther. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to 
look scalded on the outside ; then turn them gently out 
of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with 
another cloth, and put some more to be scalded, and so 
on till all be finished. Observe not toput one quantity 
on another, or they will become too soft. The next day 
pick out any had or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill 
up the bottles with the alum-water in which they were 
scalded ; which must be kept in ihe bottles; for if left in 
the kettle, or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them 
close. 

The water must boil all the time the process is carry- 
ing on. Gooseberries done this way make as fine 
tarts as fresh off the trees. 

Another way. — In dry weather pick the gooseberries 
that are full grown, but not ripe; top and tail them, and 
put into open-mouthed bottles; gently cork them with 
new velvet corks; put them in theoven when the bread 
is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part ; 
take them out of the oven, and immediately beat the 
corks in tight, cut off the tops, and rosin down close; 
set them in a dry place; and if well secured from air 
they will keep the year round. 

If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries' skins are 
the least cut in taking oil' the stalks and buds, they will 
mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keep- 
ing, and do them before the seeds become large. 

Currants and damsons may be done the same. 

To keep Damsons for winter Pies. 

Put them in small stone jars, or wide-mouthed bottles ; 
set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and 
lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when per- 
fectly cold, fill up with spring water j cover them. 

Another way.- — l3oil one third as much sugar as fruit 
with it,over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fruit, 



9'28 



DOMESTIC COOKE [IT. 



ami furms » jam. Keep ii in small jars in a dry plat*. 
It' too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done 
without sugar. 

JtnotJwr iray . — Choose steen-pots if you can get them, 
whichare of cquaUize lop mid bottom (they should bold 
eight or nine pounds) ; put the fruit in about a quarter 
up, then strew in a quarter of the sugar; then another 
quantity of fruit, and so Lit! all oi'huth are in. The pro- 
portion of sugar is to be 3 lbs. to 9 lbs. of fruit. Set 
the jaririn the. oven, ami bake the fruit quite through. 
When cold, put a piece of clean-scraped stick into the 
middle of the jar, and let the upper purl stand above 
the top; then pour melted mutton suet over the top, 
full half an inch thick, having previously covered th« 
fruit with white paper. Keep the jars iu a cool dry 
place, and use the suet as a cover ; which you will 
draw up by the Btick, minding to leave a little forked 
branch to it to prevent its slipping out. 



To preserve Fruit for Tart*, or Family- desert t. 

Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, ga- 
ther when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold 
a pound ; strew over each jar 6oz. of good loaf-sugar 
pounded ; cover with two bladders each, separately tied 
BOWS ; then set the jars in a large atew-pau of water up 
to the lu ck, and letit huil 3 hours gently. Keep these 
and all other sorts of fruit free from dump. 

To keep Lemuit juice. 

Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place 
or 3 days, if too unripe to squeeze readily; cut the 
peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make 
them part with the juice more readily; others you may 
leave unpnred for grating, when the pulp shall be taken 
out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin ; 
then strain it through Borne muslin, which will not permit 
the least pulp to pass. Have ready hulf and quarter 
ounce phials perfectly dry ; fill them with the juice ao 
near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet 



■ 



PRESERVES. '229 

oil into each ; or a little more, if for larger bottles. 
Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. 

When you want !emon-jtiice, open Buch a sized bottle 
as you shall use in two or three days; wind some clean 
cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will 
be attracted; and when all shall be removed, the juice 
will be as fine as when first bottled. 

Hang the peels up till dry ; then keep them from the 
dust. 

China Ora?iee-juice A very useful thing to mix with 
water in Fevers, when the fresh Juice canjiot be pro- 
cured. 

Squeeze From the finest fruit a pint of juice strained 
through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three 
quarters of a pound of double refined sugar twenty 
minutes; when cold put it in small bottles. 

Different ways of dressing Cranberries. 

for pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. 

Stew in a jar with the same : which way they eat well 
with bread, and are very wholesome. 

Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a 
fine drink for people in fevers. 

Orgeat. 

Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, 
sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it 
by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bit- 
ter that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with 
h little water to prevent oiling; boil all together, and 
Mir till cold, then add half a glas9 of brandy. 

Another way. — Blanch and pound three quarters of 
a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful 
of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and 
three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. 
Dissolve naif a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, 
boil and skim it well ; mix it with the other, as likewise 
two spoonfuls of orange- flower water, aud a lea-cupful 
of the best brandy. 



DOMESTIC COOKKIIT. 



Lemonade, to be made the day before wanted. 

Pare two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thill as 
possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, 
not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four 
hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract 
the essence, and put it into a china-bowl, into which 
squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound 
and a half of tine sugar, then put the waterto the above, 
and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and 
pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. 

Another retty, — Pare a number of lemons according 
to the quantity you are likely to want j on the peels pour 
hot water, but inure juice will be necessary than you 
need use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and 
water to a good syrup with the white ol'an egg whiptup; 
when it boils, pour a little cold water into it ; set it on 
again, and when it boils up lake the pan off, and set it 
to settle. If there is any scum, take it off, and pour it 
clear from the sediment to the water the peels were in- 
fused in, and the lemon-juice; stir and taste it, and add 
as much more water as shall be necessary to make a very 
rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, 
then strain the liquor, which is uncommonly fine. 

Lemonade thai has the flavour and appearance- of Jelly. 

Pare 2 Seville oranges and 6 lemons as thin as pos- 
sible, and steep them 4 hours in a quart of hot water. 
Noil a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in 3 pints of 
water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of 
six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole 
well, and run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add 
a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and, if 
wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 
Put a pound of fine fruit into a china-bowl, and pour 
upon it a quart of the beat white wine vinegar ; next day 
strain the hquoron a pound of fresh raspberries ; and the 
following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, 
unly drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last 



CAKES. 



231 



sme pass it through a canvas previously wet with vine- 
gar to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar, with a 
pound of sugar to every pint of juice, broken into large 
lumps; stir it when melted, then put the jar into a 
sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, 
and skim it. When cold, bottle it. 

This is one of the most useful preparations that can 
be kept in a house, not only as affording the most re- 
freshing beverage, but being of singular efficacy in 
complaints of the chest. A large Bpoonful or two in a 
tumbler of water. Be careful to use no glazed nor metal 
vessel for it. 

The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes ex- 
cellent Raspberry Cakes without boiling. 

PA R T IX. 

CAKES, BREAD, &c. 
Observations on making and baking Cakes. 

Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in a 
cloth, and then set before the tire. If damp they will 
make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are ad- 
ded, a dust of dry flour should be thrown among them, 
and a Bhake given to them, which causes the thing that 
they are put to, to be lighter. 

Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks 
apart, and always strained. 

Sugar should be rubbed tn a powder On a clean board, 
and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn-Bieve; 

Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a 
little sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and 
then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide 
easily among the other ingredients. 

After all the articles are put into the pan, tln-y should 
be thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the 
cake depends much on their being well incorporated. 

Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less 



2.12 



UoM&kTIC COOKER V. 



but tf-r and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light 
and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, 
and yeast, it becomes more tough, and isles* easily di- 
vided, than if the butter he first put with those ingre- 
dients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. 

The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, 
especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the 
batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by 
being too quick, put some paper over the cake to pre- 
vent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to 
have a body of heat, or it is become slnck, the cake will 
he heavy, To know when it is soaked, take a broad- 
bladed knife that it very bright, and plunge into the 
very centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least 
stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and 
shut up the oven. 

If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I 
have with great success had fresh fuel quickly put in, 
and kept the cakes hot till the oven was lit to finish the 
soaking, and they turned out extremely well. But those 
who are employed, ought to be particularly careful that 
no mistake occur from negligence when large cakes 
are to be baked. 

Irving for Cake*. 

For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine 
sugar, put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of rose- 
water, with the whites of two egns beaten and strained, 
whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a 
feather in the iceing, and cover the cake well; set it in 
the oven to harden, but don't let it stay to discolour. 
Put the cake into a dry place. 

To ice a very large Cake. 

Heat the whites of twenty fresh eggs; then by de- 
gree beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted 
through a lawn-sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen 
pan ; add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh 
lemon-peel ; of the former enough to flavour, and no 
more. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is 
thick and white ; then with a thiu broad bit of board 



CAKES. 233 

spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool 
oven, and an hour will harden it. 

A common Cake, 

Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a 
pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an 
ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin-wine. Beat it 
well, and bake in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon sugar. 
A eery good common Cake. 

Rub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried 
flour ; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast that is not 
bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half; then 
mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, 
one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thick- 
ness, {about a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet 
wine, the rind of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. 
Add either a pound of currants, or some caraways, and 
beat well. 

An excellent Cake. 
Rub two pounds of dry fine flour, with one of butter, 
washed in plain and rose-water, mix it with three spoon- 
fuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to 
rise an hour and a half before the fire; then beat into it 
two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four 
ounces of almonds, sixounees of stoned raishis, chopped 
fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few 
cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, 
a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites 
of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and 
lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A 
quick oven. 

A very Jine Cake. 
Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in water 
first, and tb«*n in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream ; 
beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an 
hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the 
finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a pound 
and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of 
spice in finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely 
" and dry, half a pound of almrnds blanched, 




234 



DOMESTIC COOKEHT. 



and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too 
thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry in- 
gredients ; pour the egg* strained to the butter ; mix half 
a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it 
to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry 
things put in by degrees ; beat them very thoroughly, 
you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound 
of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix 
them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and 
add a tea-cupful of orange-dower water. Heat the in* 
gradients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well 
buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan; 
takea white paper, doubled and buttered, and put m the 
pan round the edge, if the cake batter fill it more than 
three parts; for space should be allowed for rising, 
liake in a quick oven. It wdl require three houre, 

If out Drop Oaken, 

Mix two pounds of Hour, one ditto butter, one ditto 
sugar, onedittocurrants, clean and dry ; then wet intou 
stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoon of orange-flower 
water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brnndy, 
dropon a tin-plate floured : a very short time bakes them. 

Flat Cakes, that trill keep fang in the house good. 

Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one 
ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few 
Bpoonfuls of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, 
and cut it into any shape. Bake on this lightly floured. 
While baking, boil a pound of sugar iu a pint of water 
to a thin Byrup; while both are hot, dip each cake into 
it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for u short 
time; and when the oven is cooler still, return them 
there again, and let them stay four or five hours. 

Little fVhite Cakei. 
Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little 
punded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few ca- 
raways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; 
roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. 
Sake fifteen minutes on tin-plates. 



CAKES. 235 

Little short Cake» t 
Rub into a pound of dried flour 4 oz. of butter, 4 02. 
of white powder-sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two 
of thin cream to make into a paste, When mixed, 
put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. 
Cuttliem as before, and bake on tins. 

Plum Cakes. 

Mix thoroughly a ^ of a peck of fine flour, well dried, 
with a pound of dry and silled loaf sugar, three pounds 
of currants washed, and very dry, \\b. of raisins 
stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and 
cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the 
peel of alemoncut as fine as possible, and half a pound 
of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower 
water. Melt two pounds of butter in a pint and a 
quarter of cream, but not hot* put to it a pint of Bweet 
wine, a glaBS of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve 
eggs beaten apart, and £ a pint of good jeast. Strain 
this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating 
them together a full hour, then butter the hoop, or 
pan, and bake it. As you put the batter into the hoop, 
or pan, throw in plenty of citron, lemon, and orange- 
candy. 

If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double-re- 
fined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an 
egg, beat it well, and by degrees pour in the remainder. 
It must be whisked near an hour, with the addition of a 
little oragne-flower water, but mind not to put much. 
When the cake is done, pour the iceing over, and re- 
turn it to the oven for 35 minutes ; but if the oven be 
warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, leat 
the color be spoiled. 

Another. — Flour dried, and currants washed and 
picked, four pounds, sugar pounded and sifted one 
pound and a half, six orange, lemon, and citron-peels, 
cut in slices : mix these. 

Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately ; then melt 
a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream; when 
lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a 



D0MEBT1C COOKERY, 



pint of Bweetwine, and the eggs; then strain the liquid 
to the dry ingredients, beatthem well, and add of cloves, 
mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. 
Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three 
hours will bake it. 

Very good commtm Plum Cake*, 

Mix five ounces of butter in 3 lbs. of dry flour, and 
five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar; add six ounces of 
currants, washed ami dried, and some pimento finely 
powdered. Put 3 spoonfuls of yeast into a Winchester 
pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dnugh 
with the above. Make it into twidve cakes, and bake 
on a floured tin ball' an hour. 

Little Plum Cakes, to keep long. 

Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces of 
finelv-pounded sugar; boat six ounces of butter to a 
cream, and add to 3 eggs, well beaten, half a pound of 
currants washed, and nicely dried, and the flour and 
sugar ; beat nil for some time, then dredge flour on tin* 
plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut 
If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake in a 
brisk oven. 

A good Pound Cake. 

Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the 
whites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten apart. Have ready 
warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of 
sifted sugar, mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg 
and cinnamon in fine powder together; then by de- 
grees work the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. 
When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some cara- 
ways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, 
and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. 

The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of 
the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious 
cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. 

A cheap Seed Cake. 

Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound 
of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and tt Bit la 



cakes. 237 

inger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with 
alt" a pint of milk ; when just warm, put to it a quarter 
of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it 
stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to 
tbe oven ; add seeds, or currants, and bake an hour and 
a half. 

Anoilter, — Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a 
pound of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, an ouuce of seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and 
the same of milk and water. 

JVote. Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to 
dry. 

Common Bread Cake. 

Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, 
when making white bread, and km-ad well into it two 
ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- 
rants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. 

By the* addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an 
egg or two, you may make the cake better, A tea. 
cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to 
bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being 
less hard. 

Queen Cakes, 

Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, 
and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of butter 
in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry 
ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter 
little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, 
filling only half. Sift a little fine Bugar over just as 
you put into the oven. 

Anotlier nay. Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix 
with two well beaten eggs, strained ; mix eight ounces 
of dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and th« 
grated rind of a lemon, then add the whole together, 
and beat full half an hour with a silver-spoon. Butter 
small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in 
n quick oven. 

u 




Skrewtbu-y Cakes. 
Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, 
end a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the 
finest sort; add a little rose-water to three eggs, well 

beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c. then pour 
into it as much melted butter as will make it a good 
thickness to roll out. 

Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such 
ihnpeB as you like. 

T 'mi bridge CttktJt. 
Rub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound of 
flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strain two 
eggs, and make with the above into a paste. Roll it 
very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them 
with b fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the 
white of an egg, and dust a little white sugar over. 
Rice Cake. 

Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, 
eight ounces of pounded sugar; then silt by degrees 
into eight yolks and six whites of t*gg;s, and the peel of 
a lemon shred so fine that it is quite mashed; mix the 
whole well in a tin stew-pan nver a very slow fire with 
a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the 
same, and bake forty minutes. 

Another. — Heat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs 
rith the peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound 
i f Hour of rice, eight ounces of flour, aud one pound 
nf sugar pounded and Bifted ; then heat it well with the 
eggs by degrees, for an hour, with a wooden spoon. 
Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven mouth. 

A gentle oven will bake it in an iiour and a half. 
Water Caken. 

Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub into it one 
pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one 
ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with 
three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very 
thin, and rut into the size you choose; punch full of 
holes, and bake on tin-plates in a cool oven. 



CAKES. 



239 



Spunge Cake. 

Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in. very fine sugar, 
and that of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, 
and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth; then by de- 
grees mix: the whites and the flour with the other ingre- 
dients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a 
quick oven an hour. 

Jlnother, without butter. — Dry one pound of flour, 
and one and a quarter of sugar; beat seven eggs, yolks 
and whites apart ; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful 
of brandy, bent the whole together with your hand for 
an hour. Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oven. 

Sweetmeats may be added, if approved. 

Tea Cakes. 

Bub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of 
flour ; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine 
Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a 
spoonful of brandy. Boll the paste the thickness of an 
Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine glass. You may 
beat the other white, and wash over them ; and either 
dust sugar, or not, as you like. 

Benton Tea Cakes. 

Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter and milk* 
roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over 
the fire, or on a hot hearth. 

jlnotlter sort, as Biscuits. — Bub into a pound of 
flour six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of 
yeast, and make into a paste, with a sufficient quantity 
of new milk ; make into biscuits, aud prick them with, 
a clean fork. 

Another sort. — Melt six or seven ounces of butter 
with a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven 
pounds of flour into a stiff paBte ; roll thin, and make 
into biscuits. 

A Biscuit Cake. 
One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strain- 
ed, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose, or orange- flower 
water; heat the whole thoroughly, and bake one hour. 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Macaroons. 

Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of 
four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, 
sifted, with the almonds, to a pnste : and laying a sheet 
of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, 
the shape of macaroons, 

W a/en, 

Drp the flour well which you intend to use, mix a 
little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it; 
then make it into a thick Latter with cream ; butter the 
wafer irons, let them be hot : put a tea-spoonful of the 
hatter into them, so bake them carefully, and roll them 
off the iron with a Btick. 

Crack A T uts. 

Mix eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar; 
melt four ounces of butter in two Bpoonfula of raisin - 
trim j then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make 
into a paste ; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, 
cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an 
egg, and dust sugar over. 

Cracknels, 

Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the 
yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose- 
water, into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll-in a 
pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape ; 
pot them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them 
till ihey swim, then take out, and put them into cold 
water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake 
them on tin plates. 

A good plain Bun, that may be eaten with or irithovt 
coasting and butter. 

Bub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, 
four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a 
few Jamaica peppers, a desert spoonful of caraways; 
put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and 
as much good milk as will mate the above into a light 



CAKES, 8cC. 



241 



paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. 
They will quickly bake on tins. 

Richer Bunt. . 
Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a 
pound of sugar ; melt a pound and two ounces of butter 
ill a little warm water ; add six spoonfuls of rose-water, 
and knead the above into a light dough, with half a 
pint of yeast ; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfit* 
in, and put some on them. 

Gingerbread. 

Mix with two pounds of flour half a pound of treacle, 
three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce oi 
ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. 

Roll the paste into what form you please, and bake on 
tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to 
rise. 

If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied; it may 
be added in small bits. 

Another sort. — To 3 quarters of a pound of treacle 
beat one egg strained ; mix 4 ounces of brown sugar, 
half an ounce of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice, 
and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as 
possible; coriander and caraway seeds, each a quarter 
of an ounce; melt 1 pound of butter, and mix with the 
above ; and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty 
stiff paste ; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. 

Bake on tin-plates in a quick oven, A little time 
will bake them. 

Of some, drops may be made. 

good plain sort. — Mix three pounds of flour with 
half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half 
in ounce of pounded ginger ; then make into a paste 
with one pound and a quarter of treacle warm. 

A good sort without Butter,— Mix 2 pounds of trea- 
cle ; of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, 
each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of corian- 
der seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of 
jeaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste ; 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



lay it in cakes on tin-plates, and bake it in a quick 
oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it 
will lie good for some months. 

Note. If cakes or biscuits be kept in paper, or a 
drawer, the tnste will be disagreeable. A pan and cover, 
or tureen, will preserve them long and moist. — Or, if to 
be crisp, laying them before the tire will make them so. 
ilu-iks. 

Beat seven eggs well, nnd mix with half a pint of new 
milk, in which nave been melted 4 ounces of butter; 
acid to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces 
of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour 
as will make a tw// light paste, rather like a batter, and 
let it rise before the fire naif an hour ; then add some 
more Hour, to make it a little stiffer, but not stilF. 
Work it well, nnd divide it into Kinall loaves, or cakes, 
about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When 
buked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and 
put them in the oven to brown a little. 

Note. The cakes, when first baked, eatdeliciously 
buttered for tea; or, with caraways, to eat cold. 
To make 1'eutt. 

Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, ttboui 
three spoonfuls, boil half an hour, sweeten with near 
half a pound of brown iiugar; when near cold, put into 
it four spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well to- 
gether, and let it stand one day to ferment near the lire, 
withuut being covered. There will be a thin liquor on 
the top, which must be poured off; shake the remainder, 
mid cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of 
the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always 
in succession. 

A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. 

Another way. — Boil 1 pound of potatoes to a mash ; 
when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. 
It will be ready for use in two or tliree hours, suul keeps 
well. 

Use double the quantity of this to what you do of 
beer-yeast. 



BREAD, fitc. 



243 



To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, 
and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm 
water with it. 

To make Bread. 

Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is begun 
to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into a 
trough, or kneading- tub ; mix with it between four 
and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of 
good yeast ; put it into the flour, and stir it well with 
your bands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an 
hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, 
before it falls, add four more quarts of warm water, 
and half a pound of salt ; work it well, and cover it 
with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven ; and by 
the time it is warm enough, the dough will be ready. 
Make the loaves about five pounds each ; sweep out 
the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread ; 
shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it, 
In summer the water should be milk-warm, in winter 
a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can 
well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole 
will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be 
very nice. 

The oven should be round, not long ; the roof from 
*wenty to twenty- four inches high, the mouth small, and 
the door of iron, to shut close. This construction will 
save firing and time, and bake better than long and 
high-rooted ovens. 

Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to 
taste new when two or three days old, by dipping them 
uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. 

American Flour 

Requires almost twice as much water to make it intc 
bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it if 
more profitable ; for a stone of the American, which 
weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds 
and a half of bread, but the best sort of English floui 
produces only eighteen pounds and a halt 



244 



DOMESTIC COOKEItY. 



The Reverend Mr. Hogget's economical Bread. 
Only the coarse flake-bran is to be removed from the 
flour; of this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more 
than four gallons of water; so that when perfectly 
smooth, you may have three gallons and three quartB of 
bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-six pounds of 
the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same wayaud 
proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, 
divide it into loaves, and buke them two hours and a 
half. 

Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of 
bran-water than of plain ; so that it not only produces a 
more nutritious substantial food, but makes an increase 
of one* fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which is a 
saving of one day's consumption out of six; and if this 
was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would make a 
swing often millions sterling a year, when wheat was at 
he price it stood in the scarcity, reckoning the con- 
sumption to be 2 hundred thousand bushels a day. The 
same quantity of flour which, kneaded with water, 
produces sixty-nine pounds eight ounces of bread, will, 
m the above way, make eighty three pounds eight 
ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary 
price of flour tour millions would be saved. When 
ten days old, if put into the oven for twenty minutes, 
this bread will appear quite new again. 

Rice-and-Ulieat Hread t 
Simmer a pound of rice in two quartB of water till it 
becomes perfectly soft ; when it is of a proper warmth, 
mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and 
yeast and salt as for other bread ; of yeaBt about four 
large spoonful; knead it extremely well; then set it to 
rise before the fire. Some of the flour should he re- 
served to make up the loaves. The whole expense, in- 
cluding baking, will not exceeed three shillings, for 
which eight pounds and a half of exceeding good Dread 
will be produced. If the rice should require more 
water, it must be added, as some rice swells more 
than others. 



f 



bread, Sic. 245 

French Bread. 
With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks 
of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a 
little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not hitter, and 
as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a 
thin light dough. Stir it about, but don't knead it. 
Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough 
among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the 
oven, which must be quick. Hasp when done. 

To discover whether Bread has been adulterated ttiih 
whiting or chalk. 

Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and ifthis 
puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain 
it has a mixture of alkaline particles ; and theBe are 
sometimes in large quantities in bakers' bread. 
To detect Bones, Jalap, Ashes, $c. in Bread. 

Slice a large loaf very thin, the crumb only ; set it 
over the fire with water, and let it boil gently a long 
time ; take it off, and pour the water into a vessel ; let 
it stand till near cold ; then pour it gently out, and in 
the sediment will be seen the ingredients which have 
been mixed. The alum will be dissolved in the water, 
Hnd may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used, 
it will form a thick film at top, and the. heavy ingredi- 
ents will sink to the bottom. 

Excellent Bolls. 

Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put 
to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a 
little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix 
in the above. Let it rise an hour ; knead it well ; make 
into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. 

If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and 
huttered, they resemble Sally Lumm's, as made at 
Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a 
little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes 
remarkably good. 

French Rolls. 

Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix 



246 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as 
much inilk as will make u dough of a middling? stiff- 
ness. Beat it well, but do not knead ; let it me and 
bake on tins. 

Brentford Rolls. 

Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces 
of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs 
beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of 
milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before 
the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin-plates, and set 
them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper 
size ; then bake half an hour. 

Pot aloe Rolls, 

Boil three pounds nf potatoes, bruise and work them 
with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as will 
make them pass through a colander. Take hulf or three 
quarters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of wane 
water, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole 
upon five pounds of floor, and add some salt. Knead 
it well : if not of a proper consistence, put a little more 
milk and water warm ; let it stand before the fire an 
hour to rise; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake 
about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as loi 
bread. Tbey eat well toasted and buttered. 

Mujjiwi. 

Mix two pounds of (lour with two eggs, two ounces 
of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or nve 
spoonfuls of yeast; beat it thoroughly, and Bet it to rise 
two or three hours. Bake oo a hot hearth in hat cakes. 
When done on one side turn them. 

Note. — Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made 
to taste new, by dipping in cold water, and toasting, 
or heating in an oven, or Dutch oven, till the outside 
be crisp. 

I'orkslnre Cake, 
Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it foot 
ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three 
spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ; beat all well together. 



HOME-BREWERY. 



247 



and let it rise ; then knead it, and make into cakes • 
let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a 
slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out 
the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter, 
Hard Biscuits, 

Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk 
as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat 
it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Boll it 
thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of 
holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. 
Plain and very criftp Hiacuilx. 

Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some 
milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till 
quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. 
Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. 



PART X. 
HOME-BEEWEEY, WINES, be. 

To brew very Jijie TV clch Ate. 

POUR forty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite 
boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand 
three hours. In the mean time infiise four pounds of 
hops in a little hot water, and put the water and hops 
into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them 
together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for 
the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till 
cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two 
quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small beer yeast. 
Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done 
working the second or third day, the yeast will sink ra- 
ther than rise in the middle, remove it then, and tun the 
ale as it works out ; pour a quart in at a time, and 
gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too 
long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper 
over the bung-hole two or three days before stopping up. 



218 



DOMESTIC COOKLhY. 



Strong Beer or Ale. 

Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, fat 
fourteen if you wish it of a very good body) eight lot 
ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but 
not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours 
close-covered ; mash it in the first half hour, and let it 
stand the remain der of the time. Run it on the hops 
previously infused in water; for strong beer tfam 
quarters of a pound to a bushel ; if for ale, half a pound. 
Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it be- 
gins to boil, Cool a pailful to add three quarts ofyeast 
to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when 
ready next day ; but ifposaible put together the same 
night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-nole with paper 
when the berr has done working; ana when it is to bs 
stopped, have ready a pound and n half of hops dried 
before the tire, put thorn into the bung-hole, and fasten 
it up. Let it stand 12 months in casks, and 12 in bot- 
tles before it be drank. It will keep fine 8 or 10 years. 
It should be brewed the beginning of March. 

Great care must be taken that the bottles arc per- 
fectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort, 

The ale will be ready in three or four months ; and 
if the vent peg never be removed, it will have spirit 
and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of 
water at first for waste. 

After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pout 
a hogshead and half for the twelve bushels, and a hogs- 
head of water if eight were brewed ; mash, and let stand, 
.aid then boil, &.c. Use some of the hops for this 
table-beer that were boiled for the strong. 

When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn 
sour, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of 
wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be 
drawn just before it is drunk or it will taste flat. 
Excellent Table Beer. 

On three bushels of inaltpourofhot water the third of 
the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty-nine 
•allona. Cover it warm half an hour, then mash, and 



HOME-BREWERY. 



•no 



let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to 
drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, 
and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, 
and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, 
and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Run that ofi, 
and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops 
should De infused in water, as in the former receipt, 
and be put into the tub for the first running. 

Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it 
first boils. Strain off" and cool. If the whole be not cool 
enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort 
may be prepared, and a quart of yeaBt put to it over 
night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added to- 
gether, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When 
the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung- 
hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. 
In three or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. 

Abip. Servants should he directed to put a cnrk into every barrel mi 
aoou n-s tin- cork i* taken out, mid to fasten In the vent-peg, tbe air 
causing casks to become musty. 

To refine Beer, Ale, fVine, or Cyder. 
Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart 
of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with awnisk 
every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the 
cask, and mix the above with it : likewise a quarter of 
an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar cal- 
cined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it 
well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it 
with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it 
will be fine. 

Extract of Malt for Coughs. 

Over half a bushel of pale ground malt, pour as much 
hot, not boiling water, as will just cover it. In forty- 
eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without 
squeezing the grains ; put the former into a large sweet- 
meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil 
as quick as possible, without boilingover; when it be- 
gins to thicken stir constantly. It must be as thick as 
treacle. A desert-spoon thrice a day. 

To preserve I'eajjt. 

When you. have plenty of yeaat, begin to save it in the 



250 



DOMESTIC COOKEHV. 



following manner; whisk, it until it becomes tlikn, 
take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, 
when quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside 
a soft brush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the 
same manner, and so do until you have a sufficient quan- 
tity, observing that each coat dry thoroughly before ano- 
ther be added. It may be put on two or three inches 
thick, mid will keep several months ; when to be us«l, 
cut a piece out; stir it in warm water. — If to be used 
for brewing, keep it by dipping large handfula of birch 
tied together ; and when dry, repeat the dipping oooe. 
You may thus do as many as you please ; but take can 
that no dust comes to them, or the vessel in which it 
has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to 
work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will do 
as well as with fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small 
quantity first and then added to ihe whole, it will work 
sooner. 

Jletnarkt on b'ttgfish (Vines. 

English wines would be found particularly useful, now 
foreign are so high-priced; ana though sugar is dear, 
they may be made at a quarter of the expense. If care- 
fully made, and kept three or four years, a proportion- 
able strength being given, they would answer the pur- 
pose of foreign wines for health, and cause a very con- 
siderable reduction in the expenditure. 

A rich and pleasant IVine, 

Take new cyder from the press, mix it with as much 
honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minute*, 
but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well j 
when coo], let it be tunned, but don't quite fill. In 
March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in 
six weeks ; but will be less sweet it" kept longer in the 
cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it 
will keep well. This will serve for any culinary pur- 
poses which sack, or sweet wine, is directed for. 

Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render pala- 
table new crabbed austere cyder. 



WIKHS, &C. 



251 



Raspberry Wine. 

To every quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart 
ot water ; bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain 
off the liquor, and to every gallon put 3 pounds of lump 
sugar ; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, and 
when fine, which will be in about 2 months, bottle it, and 
toeacb bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. 

Raspberry or Currant Wine. 

To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from 
mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; bruise, the for- 
mer. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put 
to every quart apound of sugar, of good middling quality 
of Lisbon. If for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is 
best to put the fruit, &c. in a large pan, and when in 
three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the 
liquor be put into the barrel.— Those who make from 
their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the 
barrel at once ; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, 
in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, 
and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of 
what is put in each time. 

Jlnotlter may. — Put five quarts of currants, and a 
pint of raspberries, to every two gallons of water ; let 
them soak a night ; then squeeze and break them well. 
Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the 
juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of 
the water ; then to every gallon put four pounds of 
very good Lisbon Bugar, but not white, which is often 
adulterated; tun it immediately, and lay the bung 
lightly on. Do not use anything to work it. In two 
or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gal- 
lons ; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few 
days ; keep it three years, and it will be a very fine 
igreeable wine ; four years would make it still better. 

Black Currant Wine, very fine. 

To every three quarts of juice, put the same of water 
unboiled ; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add 



252 



DOMESTIC COOKBtiy. 



three pounds or very pure moist sugar. Put in into 
a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the cask 
in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of 
itself. Skim off the refuse, when the fermentation 
shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor. 
When it has ceased w T orking, pour three quarts ol 
brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine 
months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through 
a jelly-bag, until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep 
it ten or twelve months. 

Jlxce/tent (linger (Vint. 

Flit into a very nice boiler ten gallons of water, fiftecr 
pounds of lump-sugar, with tho whites of six or eight 
eggB well beaten and strained ; mix all well while cold. 
when the liquor boils skim it well ; put in half a pound 
of common white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. 
Have ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and 
pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two 
spoonfuls of yeast ; put o quart of the liquor to two 
ounces of isinglass shavings, while warm, whisk it 
well three or four times, and pour all together into the 
barrel. Next day stop it up; in three weeks bottle, 
and in three months it will be a delicious and refresh- 
ing liquor; and though very cool, perfectly safe. 
Another. — Boil 9 quarts of water with 6 pound* of 
lump-sugar, the rinds of 2 or 3 lemons very thinly pared, 
with two ounces of bruised white ginger half an hour ; 
skim. Put three quarters of'a pound of raisins into the 
cask; when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with the 
juice of 2 lemons strained, and a spoonful and a halt 
of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in hall" a pint of brandy, 
and half an ounce of isinglass shavings ; stop it up, and 
bottle it six or Beven weeks. Do not put the lemon- 
peel in the barrel. 

Orange Wine. 

To five gallons of spring water, put filleen pounds 
of loaf sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum 
rises, take it off, when cold add the juice of CO Seville 



WINES, StC. 



oranges and 5 lemons ; pare 10 oranges and 5 lemons as 
thin as possible, put them on thread, and suspend them 
in the barrel for 2 months, then take them out, and 
put in a pound of loaf sugar, and bung it up. 

Excellent Cowslip Wine. 
To every gallon of water, weigh three pounds of lump- 
sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking off the 
scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust 
of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor 
ferment in the tub thirty-six hours ; then into the cask 
put for every gallon the peel of two and rind of one 
lemon, and both of one Seville orange, and one gallon 
of cowslip-pips, then pour on them the liquor. It 
must be carefully stirred every day for a week ; then 
to every five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the 
cask be close stopped, and stand only six weeks before 
you bottle off. Observe to use the best corks. 
Elder Wine. 

To every quart of berries put two quarts of water, boil 
half an hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit through 
a hair sieve ; then to every quart of juice, put three 
quarters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the 
very coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with 
some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a few cloves. Pour 
it into a tub, and when or a proper warmth, into the bar- 
rel, with toast and yeast to work, which there is more 
difficulty to make it do than most other liquoro. When it 
ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and 
stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The 
(iquor must be in a warm place to make it work. 
White Elder Wine, very muck like Frontiniae, 
Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six 
gallons of water t and two whites of eggs well beaten; 
then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder- 
flowers from the tree that bears white berries ; don't 
keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put 
in six spoonfuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and 
beat well into the liquor ; stir it every day ; put six 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cuk, and 
tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in tux months. 
When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniac. 
Clary Wine. 

Boil 15 gallons of water, with 45 pounds of sugar, 
skim it, when cold put a little to a quarter of a pint 
of yeast, and so by degrees add a little mare. In au 
hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the 
liquor on clary -flowers, picked in the dry ; the quan- 
tity for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gather 
from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in 
at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping 
account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, ana the 
flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Rack it 
off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and adding a gallop 
of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six oi 
eight weeks, then bottle it. 

Excellent Jtaisin Win*. 

To every gallon of Bpring-water, put 8 pounds of 
fresh Smymas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every 
day for a month ; then press the raisins in a norse-hair 
bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask ; and 
when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best 
brandy : stop it close for twelve months ; then rack it 
ofl*, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag 
of flannel of three or four folds ; add the clear to the 
quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy, ac- 
cording to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at 
the end of three years, you may either bottle it, or drink 
it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely 
good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which 
improves the flavour greatly. 

Raisin Win* with Cyder. 

Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, 
and pour upon them a nogshead of good sound cyder 
that is not rough; stir it well two or three days ; stop 
it, and let it stand six months; then rack into a cask 
that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. 



WINKS, kc. 



255 



If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to 
keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year's wine 
just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six 
months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen 
months old. In cyder-counties this way is very econo- 
mical- and even if not thought strong enough, the ad- 
dition of another quarter of a hundred of raisins would 
be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. 
When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, 
they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and 
must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if for that 
purpose, they must be very little pressed ;) or they will 
make excellent vinegar, on which article aeepage 121. 
The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may 
be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making; be- 
ing very acid. 

Raisin JVine without Cyder. 
On four hundred weight of Malagas pour one hogshead 
of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then 
squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, aud 
tun the liquor ; when it ceases to hiBS, stop it close. In 
six monthB rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, 
and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the 
same, but don't wash it ; add a gallon of the best 
brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take 
care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to 
the preceding receipt. 

Sack Mead. 

To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, 
and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim 
it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops ; then boil it 
half an hour, and let it stand till next day : put it into 
your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a 
quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fer- 
mentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you 
make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. 

Cowslip Mead. 
Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of 



'2.VJ 



DOMESTIC COOKEHT. 



water, and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take 
it off the fire, mid have ready a dozen and a half of le- 
mons quartered ; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot 
upon them ; put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, 
with seven pecks of cowslip-pips ; let them remain there 
all night, and then put the liquor ntid the lemons to 
eight spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet- 
briar: stir all well together, and let it work three or 
four days. Strain it, and put into the cask : let it stanr 1 
six months, and then bottle it for keeping. 

Imperial, 

Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and 
paring of two lemons, into a stone-jar ; put on them 
seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. 
When cold, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and straining it, 
bottle and cork it tight This is a very pleasant liquor, 
and very wholesome ; but from the latter conaidera- 
tion was at one time drank in such quantities, as to 
bt'i omc injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum 
to the whole quantity, 

tialafia, 

blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, 
bruise and put them into a bottle, nnd fill nearly up 
with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- 
candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy 
after it has stond a month on the kernels, and they are 
strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for 
use. The leaves of peach ana nectarines, when the 
trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an ex- 
cellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. 

Raspberry Brandy. 

Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar 
into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice 
will run ; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of 
sugar, give one boil, and skim it ; when cold put equal 
quantities of juice and brandy, shake well and bottle. 
Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. 



WINES, kc. 



257 



An excellent Method of making Punch. 
Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite 
ripe, and some large lumps of double -refined sugar. 
Rub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all 
the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl 
these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the 
lemons may be supposed to require ; for no certain, 
weight can be mentioned, as the ascidity of a lemon 
cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be 
determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice 
upon the sugar ; and with a bruiser press the sugar and 
the juce particularly well together, for a great deal of 
the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on 
this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly per- 
formed. Then mix this up very well with boiling water 
{soft water is best) till the w ater is rather cool. When 
this mixture {which is now called the sherbet) is to 
your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, 
and put them to it, mixing the whole well together 
again. The quantity of liquor must be according to 
your taste : two good lemons arc generally enough to 
make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, 
with half a pound of sugar; but this depends much on 
taste, and on the Btrength of the spirit. 

As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- 
bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some 
strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is 
improper; as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed 
together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. 

When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter 
will soften the punch; and even when both rum and 
brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to 
some a very pleasant flavour. 

This receipt has never been in print before, but is, 
greatly admired among the writer's friends. It is im- 
possible to take too much pains in all the processes of 
mixing^ and in minding to do them extremely roe//, that 
all the different articles may be most thoroughly incor- 
porated together. 



258 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



'Fender, or Milk Punch, 

Pare aix oranges, and six lemons, as thin aa yon can, 
prate them after with Bugar to get the flavour. Steep the 
peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty- 
four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, 
add to it four quarts of water, and one of new m»lk 
boiling hot ; stir the mm into the above, and run it 
through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and 
cork close immediately. 

Nor/oik Punch. 

In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of 
thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that 
not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. 
Haye ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled ; 
put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar ; and 
when well mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, 
adding the juice of the oranges and of twenty -four le- 
mons; mix well: then strain through a very fine hair- 
sieve, into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and 
put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it 
close; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle 
the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles 
are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best 
quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many 
years, and improves by age. 

Another 'may, — Pare Bix lemons and three Seville 
oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea- 
pot, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white-wine t 
and one of milk, and one pound nnda quarter of sngac. 
Let it be mixed, and then covered for twenty-four 
hours, strain through a jelly -bag till clear, then bottle 
it. 

Hliite Currant Shrub. 
Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; strain 
the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of 
rum, and two pounds of lump-sugar ; strain through a 
jelly-bag. 



■ 



PART XI, 



DAIRY, AND POULTRY. 

DAIRY. 

The servants of each country are generally acquainted 
th the best mode of managing the butter and cheese ol 
t country ; but the following hints may not be unac- 
eptable, to give information to the mistress. 

On the Management of Cowt, fyc* 
Cowa should be carefully treated ; if their teats are 
sore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a day, 
and eitheT be dressed with soft ointment, or done with 
spirit and water. If the former, great cleanliness is 
necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given 
to the pigs. 

When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be 
strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in 
winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is 
preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so 
thoroughly scalded. 

The greatest possible attention must be paid to great 
cleanliness in a dairy ; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, 
and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neat- 
ess, and cold water thrown over every part very often, 
iere should be shutters to keep out the sun and the hot 
air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. 

The tows should be milked at a regular and early 
hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will de- 
crease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes ; 
%b the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pas- 
ture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty 
of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change 



domestic cookery. 



of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend 
properly to the dairy w ill feed the cows particularly well 
two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the 
milk more abundant after. In gentlemens* dairies more 
attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows than 
to their produce, which dairymen look most to. 

For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady- 
Day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come 
into use about the same time ; but in gentlemens 1 fami- 
lies one or two should calve in August or September for 
ti supply in w inter, In good pastures, the average pro- 
duce of a dairy is about thee gallons a day each cow, 
from Lady-Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to 
Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable 
milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper 
breed. 

When a calf is to hi 1 remd, it fdmuld he taken from 
'In rmv in a «(.\ik nt furthest, or it will cause great 
trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make 
it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the 
morning, and keep it without food till the next morn- 
ing; and then, being hungry, it will drink without 
difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm 
as new milk, should be given twice a day in such 
quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel 
mixed with milk will do. At first, let the calf bo out 
only by day, and feed it at night and morning. 

When the family is absent, or there is not a great call 
for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity 
to provide for the winter-store : she should have a book 
to keep an account, or get some one to write down 
for her the produce of every week, and set down what 
butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should 
be marked on each in making at the pottery. In 
another part of the book should be stated the poultry 
reared in one leaf, and the weekly consumption in 
another part. 

Observations respecting Cheese. 
This well-known article dicers accordingto the pasture 



DAIH.Y, 



261 



in which the cows feed. Various modes of preparing 
may effect a great deal : and it will be bad or good of its 
kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrary ; but 
much will still depend on the former circumstance. 
The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and re- 
markably fine cheese ; yet due care may give one pretty 
good, when the other excells in quality. 

When one is not as fine as the other, attention and 
change of method may amend the inferior. There is 
usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of 
dairy people, to make them give up an old custom for 
one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the 
superior. A gentleman has been at the expense of pro- 
curing cattle from every county noted for good cheese, 
and it is affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, 
North Wiltshire, Chedder, and many other sorts are 
so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the 
cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the 
mode of making must be a principal cause of the differ- 
ence in flavour ; besides, there is much in the size and 
manner of keeping. 

Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skimmed, 
or mixed milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, 
but also in taste. Those who directs dairy in a gentle- 
man's family, should consider in which way it can be 
managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, 
cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, 
by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- 
tioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather 
than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be 
most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made 
butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made 
on poor land to be of a very different quality from that 
usually produced by it. 

A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not 
extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will 
be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese 
for common family-UBe will he very well produced by 



262 DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in pood 
land, by skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be 
made, and potted clown for winter-use, but not to inter- 
fere with the cheese as above, which will not take 
much time. 

To prepare Rennet, to turn the Milk. 
Take out the stomach of a calf aa toon as killed, and 
scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the 
curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then 
sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch 
it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and 
soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water, 
Another way. — Clean the maw as above ; next day 
take two <juarl« of fresh spring-water, and putinto it.i 
handful ol hawthorn -tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a 
handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, 
four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and 
two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to 
three pints of water ; strain it off; and wheuonly milk- 
warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a 
lemon into it ; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and 
bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve 
months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any 
sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty 
salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt 
the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched 
on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong aa ever. 
Don't keep it in a hot place when dry. 

To make Cheese. 
Put the milk intoalarge tub, warming a part till it is 
of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; if too hot the 
cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn 
it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned ; 
then strike the curd down several times with the skim- 
ming dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There 
are two modes ofbreaking the curd ; and there will be a 
difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either 
is observed ; one iB, to gather it with the hands very 



gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass 
through the fingers till it is cleared , and lading it off as 
it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by 
early breaking the curd • the last method deprives it of 
many of its oily particles,, and is therefore less proper. 

Put the vat oil a ladder over the tub, and fill it with 
curd by the skimmer ; pTess the curd close with your 
lurid, and add more as it sinks ; and it must be finally 
left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, 
the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom : and when 
full, drawn smooth over on all sides. 

There are two modes of salting cheese : one by mix- 
ing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out ; 
and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling 
the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing 
with the hands has dried it. The first method appears 
best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the 
custom of the country must direct. Put a board under 
and over the vat, and place it in the press i in two 
hours turn it out and put a fresh cheese-cloth ) press it 
again for 8 or 9 hours; then salt it all over, and turn it 
again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen 
or sixteen hours, observing to put the cheeses last made 
nudermost. Before putting them the last time into 
the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. 
The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom 
to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards 
and change and scald them. 

To preserve Cheese sound. 

Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it 
once a month, and keep it it on a rack. If you want to 
ripen it, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a 
whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be spread 
with butter inside, and the outside wiped topreserve it. 
To keep those in daily use, moist, let a clean cloth be 
wmng out from cold water, and wrapt round them 
when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to 
advantage to grate for serving with macaroni or eating 
without. These observations are made with a view to 



264 



DOME-TIC COOKERY. 



make the above articles lees expensive, as in most 
families where much is used there is waste. 

To make Sage Chetse* 
Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with 
some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it 
with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as 
you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, 
break it gently and put it in with the skimmer, till it 
is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or 
ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. 

Cream Cheese, 
Put five quarts of strappings, that is, the last of the 
milk, into a pan, with two spoonfuls of rennet. When 
the curd is come, strike it down two or three times 
with the skimming-dish just to break it. Let it stand 
two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put 
the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd 
a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a two 
pound weight upon it. Let it staud twelve hours, take 
it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, 
from one board to another ; cover them with nettles, or 
clean dock-leaves, and put between two pewter-plates 
to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be ready in 
three weeks. 

AnotJier^ — Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put 
five quarts of new milk into a pan, and Jive pints of cold 
water, and Jive of hot ; when of a proper heat, put in as 
much rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, like- 
wise a bit of sxigar. When come, strike the skimmer 
three or four times down, and leave it on the cord. 
In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching 
it ; put a two pound weight on it when the whey has 
run from it, and the vat is full. 

Another sort. — Put as much salt to three pints of raw 
cream as shall Beasou it : stir it well, and pour it into 
a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three 
or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, 
cover it with nettles ou a pewter-plate. 



BAITIV. 



To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk 
warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a 
bit of sugar, and a little rennet. 

Set near the fire till the curd comes ; fill a vat made 
iti the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes sewed 
together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes 
sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it ; 
the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take 
it out, and change it as above, to ripen. A half-pound 
weight will be sufficient to put on it, 

Another way.- — Tike a pint of very thick sour cream 
from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a nap- 
kin on two plates, and pour half into each, let them 
stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet nap- 
kin in one plate, and cover with the same ; this do 
every twelve hours until you find the cheese begins to 
look dry, then ripen it with nut-leaves ; it will be ready 
in ten days. 

Fresh nettles, or two pewter-plates, will ripen cream- 
cheese very well. 

Observations respecting Butter. 

There is no one article of family consumption more 
in use, of great variety in goodness, or that is of more 
consequence to have of a superior quality, than this, 
and the economising of which is more necessary. The 
sweetness of butter is not affected by the cream being 
turned, of which it is made. When cows are in turnips, 
or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagreeable; and the 
following ways have been tried with advantage to ob- 
viate it : — 

When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every 
six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one 
once of nitre in a pint of spring-water, and put a quar- 
ter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when 
you churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour 
cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into which 
you are to gather the next cream; stir that well, and 
do so with every fresh addition. 



266 DOMESTIC COOKERT. 

To make Butter. 

During summer, skim the milk when the sun hag 

not heated the dairy ; at that season it should stand for 
butter twenty 'tour hours without skimming, and forty- 
eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold 
cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn 
daily change it into scalded fresh pots ; but never omit 
churning twice a week. If possible, put the churn in a 
thorough air; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of 
water two feet deep, which will give firmness to tbs 
butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter- 
milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or 
tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour 
water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness be- 
fore you work it j then change the water, and beat it 
with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of 
the buttermilk remain, and that the water, which must 
be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then 
work some salt into it, weign, and make it into forms ; 
throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and 
cover of the queen's ware. You will then have very 
nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires 
more working in hot than in cold weather ; but in 
neither should be left with a particle of buttermilk, or 
a sour taste, as is sometimes done. 

To preserve butter. 

Take two parts of the best common salt, one part 
good loaf sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well 
together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly 
cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this compo- 
sition ; work it well, and pot down, when become firm 
and cold. 

The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, 
and should not be used under a month. This article 
should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the 
best glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen 
pounds each. 



dai nr. 



267 



To preserve Butter for Winter, the best xtmij. 

When the butter has been prepared as above directed, 
take two parts of the beet common salt, one part of good 
loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended 
well together. Of this composition put one ounce to 
sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a 
mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become 
cool ; for friction, though it be not touched by the 
hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or 
twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt ; and 
when that is turned to brine, if not enough to cover the 
butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It 
requires only then to be covered from the dust. 

To manage Cream /or Whey Butter. 

Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till 
you have enough ; then boil it and pour it into a pan 
or two of cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till 
no more comes; then churn it. Where new-milk 
cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and pre- 
sent use may be made to advantage. 

To scald Cream, as in the West of England. 

Iu winter let the milk stand twenty-four hourB, in the 
summer twelve at least; then put the milk- pan on an 
hot hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass 
kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan. It must 
remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, 
or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk. 
Yon will know when done enough, by the undulations 
on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round 
the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to 
scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat 
of the fire ; the Blower the better. Remove the pan 
into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In 
cold weather it may stand thirly-six hours, and never 
less than two meals. The butter is usually made in 
Devonshire of cream thus prepared, a* d if properly it 

very firm. 



2G8 



DOMESTIC COOKiiRY. 



Buttermilk, 

If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most whole 
some food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find 
it still more light ; and it is reckoned more beneficial 
in consumptive cases. Buttermilk, if not very sour, 
is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened 
with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. 
It likewise does equally for cakes and rice-puddings, 
and of course it is economical to churn before the cream 
is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. 

To keep Milk and Cream. 

In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk 
from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may 
be kept perfectly Bwcet by scalding the new milk very 
gently, without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen 
dish, or pan that it is done in. This method is pursued 
in Devonshire, and tor butter, and eating, would equally 
answer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream 
already skimmed mny be kept twenty-four hourB if 
scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much 
powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, 
will be good two days, keeping it in a cool place. 

Syrup of Cream 
May be preserved as above in the proportion of a pound 
and quarter of »ugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; 
keep it in a cool place two or three hours ; then put it 
in one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will 
keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found 
very useful on voyages. 

Gallino Cur da and Whey, as in Italy. 

Take a number of the rough coats that line thu giz- 
zards of turkeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles 
they contain; rub them well with salt, and hang them 
tn dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd 
than common rennet. When to be used, break off 
some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water : 
in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other 
rennet 



POtlLTR Y-Y A RD, 



269 



To choose Butler at Market, 
Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when 
drawn out ; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it 
is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in 
casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at 
the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it 
between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a 
nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through : if sour 
in smell it has not been sufficiently washed; 3 veiny and 
open, it is probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. 

POULTRY-YARD. 

Management of Fowls. 

In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a 
good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The 
Dart ford sort is thought highly of; and it is desirable to 
have a fine large kind, but people differ in their opinion 
of which is best. The black are very juicy ; bu t do not 
answer so well for boiling, as their legB partake of their 
colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the 
same hour and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned, in a 
little water, and then cut, and either wet with skimmed 
milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkies and 
fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not 
be sour. 

The best age for setting a hen, is from two to five 
years ; and you should remark which hens make the best 
brooders, and keep those to laying who are giddy and 
careless of their young. In justice to the animal crea- 
tion, however, it must he observed, there are but few 
instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is 
necessary. 

Hens bit twenty days. Convenient places should be 
provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sit- 
ting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from ver- 
min, the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. 

Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of 
feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked 

Y 



270 



DOMESTIC COOKERT. 



upnnasprofitable. Some fineyoung fowls should be rear- 
ed every year, to keep up a slock of good breeders ; and 
by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless 
nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. 

Let the hens lay some time before you set them, 
which should be done from the end of February to the 
beginning of May, While hen* are laying, feed them 
well, and sometimes with oats. 

Broods of chickens are hatched all through the sum- 
mer, but those that come out very late require much 
care tilt they have gained some strength. 

If the eggs of any other sort are put under the hen with 
some of her own, observe to add her own as many days 
after the others, as there is a difference in the length of 
their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose 
large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number, as 
she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are 
sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be 
productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. 

A hen-house should be large and high ■ and should be 
frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- 
crease greatly. But bens must not be disturbed while 
sitting ; for if frightened, they sometimes forsake their 
nest«. Wormwood and me should be plnnted plentifully 
about their houses : boil some of the former, and sprinkle 
it about the floor ; which should beof smooth earth, not 
paved. The windowsofthe house should be open to the 
rising sun : and a hole must be left at the door, to let 
the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let in and out 
by opening the door. There should be a small sliding 
board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; 
which would prevent the small beasts of prey from com- 
mitting ravages, and a good strong door and lock may 
possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of 
human enemies. 

When some of the chickens are hatched long before 
the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket 
of wool till the others come forth. The day after they 
are hatched, give them some crumbs of white bread, and 



POULTRY-YARD. 



271 



mull (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon 
as they have gained a little strength, feed them with 
curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but 
nothing sour ; and give them clean water twice a day. 
Keep the hen under a pen till the young nave strength 
to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks ; 
and be sure to feed her well. 

The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which 
softens it ; and then passes into the gizzard, which by 
constant friction macerates it : and this is facilitated by 
small stones, which are generally found there, and 
which help to digest the food. 

If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her he 
well washed with a decoction of wild lupins. The pip 
in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or taking 
filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the 
symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, anil rub 
the tongue with some salt ; and tbe complaint will be 
removed. 

It ansiverB well to pay some boy employed in the farm 
or stable, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It 
will be his interest then to save them from being pur- 
loined, which nobody but one in bissituation can pre- 
vent ; and sixpence or eightpence a score will be Buy. 
ing eggs cheap. 

To make Hens lay. 

Dissolve an ounce of Glauber's salts in a quart of 
water; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, 
and feed thehens two days, giving them plenty of clean 
water to drink. The above quantity is sufficient for 
six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean 
water in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. 
To fatten Fowls or Chickens in four or Jive Days, 

Set rice over the fire with skjcnmed milk, only as 
much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is 
quiteswelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two 
of sugar, but it will do well without. Feed them three 
times a day, in common pans, giving them only as much 
as will anite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let 



272 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be con- 
veyed to the fowls, as that prevents tbem from fattening. 
Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; 
but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked* the 
better. By this method the Mesh will have a clear white- 
ness which no other food gives ; and when it is con- 
sidered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much 
time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as 
cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be 
daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours be> 
fore poultry he killed. 

To choo.se Eggs at Market, and preserve them. 

Put the large cud of the egg to your tongue; if it feels 
warm it is new. In new laid eggs, there is a small divi- 
sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, 
and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking 
through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, egg* 
will he pretty clear. If they sihuke they are not fresh. 

Eggsraay be bought cheapest when the hens lirgt begin 
to lay in the spring, before they sit ; in Lent and at 
Easter they become dear. They may be preserved fresh 
by dipping them in boiling water and instantly taking 
them out, or by oiling the shell ; either of which ways 
is tn prevent the air passing through it : or kept on 
shelves with smalt holes to receive one in each, and be 
turned every other day; or close-packed in a keg, and 
covered with strong lime-water. 

Feathers. 

In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the 
feathers, which may occasionally come in small qu&mi- 
ties,are neglected; but orders should be given to put them 
into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change 
them in to paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang 
in a dry kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added 
to those in part dried, or they will occasion a musty 
smell, but they should go through the same process. In 
a lew months they will be fit to add to beds, or to make 
pillows, without ihe usual mode of drying tbem in a cool 



POULTRY- YARD. 



273 



oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before 
five or six months. 

Ducks 

Generally begin to lay in the month of February. Their 
eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they 
seem inclined to sit; then leave them, and Bee that there 
are enough. They require no attention while sitting, 
except to give them food at the time they come out to 
seek it; and there should be water placed ata moderate 
distance from them, that their eggs may not be BpoileJ 
by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen 
eggs areenough : in an early season it is best to set them 
under a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till 
they have n little strength to bear it, which in very cold 
weather they cannot do so well. They should be kept 
under cover, especially in a wet season; for though water 
is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be 
killed by the cramp before they are covered with fea- 
thers to defend them. 

Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest atone 
place, which would prevent their straggling too far to 
lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous ; 
and these might be small wooden houses, with a parti- 
tion in the middle, and a door at each end. They eat 
any thing; and when to be fattened, must have plenty, 
however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. 
Geese 

Require little expense; as they chiefly support them- 
selves on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. 
The largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and 
grey. The pied and dark-coloured are not 80 good. 
Thirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in 
warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner, Give 
them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light 
oats ; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep 
them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with 
barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. For green geese, begin 
to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them 



274 



DOMESTIC COOKKRT. 



as above, Stubble geese require no fattening if they 

have the run of good fields. 

Turkies 

Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, pot 
three pepper-corns down their throtit. Great care is 
necessary to their well-being, because the hen is bo care- 
less that she will walk about with one chick, and leave 
the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Tut* 
ki«?s are violent eaters ; and must therefore be left to take 
charge of themselves io general, except one good feed a 
day. The ben sits twenty-five or thirty days ; and the 
young onesmust be kept warm, or the least cold or damp 
kills them. They must be fed often ; and at a distance 
from the ben, who w ill eat every th ing from them. They 
should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and 
bread an d milk with rlinppfd wormwood in it;nnd their 
drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young 
fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be 
kept in a safe place where none can come ; weaBels, 
stoat*, ferrets, Sec. creep in at very small crevices. 

Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed 
to the sun, for the first three or four weeks; and tbe 
young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at 
morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put 
under a turkey ; and when she is about to lay, lock her 
up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin 
to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the 
hen-house; and give them a little meat in the evening, 
to accustom them to roosting there. Patten them with 
sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight ; and the last 
fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with 
warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The flesh will 
be beautifully white and fine-flavoured. The common 
way is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it 
seems unnecessary, if they are not suffered to go far 
from home, which makes them poor. 

Pea Fowl. 

Feed them as you do turkies. They are so shy that 
they are seldom found for some days after hatching: 



POCLTRY-TARD. 



275 



and it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant 
people do, in the idea of bringing them home ; for it 
only causes the hen to carry the young one« through 
dangerous places, and by hurrying she treads upon them. 
The cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by 
one blow on the centre of the head with his bill ; and 
he does the same by his own brood before the feathers 
of the.crown come out. Nature therefore impels the 
hen to keep them out of his way till the feathers rise. 
Guinea Hens 

Lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can discover 
the nest, it is best to put them under common hens, 
which are better nurses. They require great warmth ; 
quiet ; and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, 
or bread soaked in it. Put two pepper-corns down 
their throat when first hatched. 

Pigeons 

Bring two young ones at a time ; and breed every 
month, if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They 
should he kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove- 
cote be strewed with sand once a month at least. Tares 
nnd white peas are their proper food. They should 
have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and 
other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the 
eggs. Vermin likewise are their great enemies, and 
destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a 
few tame pigeons of the common kind, and of their 
own colour, among them. Observe not to have too 
large a proportion of cock-birds; for they are quarrel- 
some, and will Boon thin the dove-cote. 

Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. 
Lay a large heap of clay near the house ; and let the 
suit-brine that may be done with in the family he 
poured upon it. 

Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is an universal re- 
medy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and 
breasts are sometimes scabby ; in which case, take a 
quarter of a pound of bay-salt, and as much common 



276 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



salt; a pound of fennel-seeds, a pound of dill-seed, as 
much cummin-seed, and an ounce of assafcetida ; mix 
all with a little wheaten flour, and some line worked 
clay ; when all arc well beaten together, put it into two 
earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold, 
put them on the table in the dove-cote ; the pigeons 
will eat it, and thus be cured. 

Babbitt. 

The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great 
sare is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The 
tame one brings forth every month, and must be al- 
lowed to go with the buck as soon as ahe has kindled. 
The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistle, parsley, 
carrot-lops, cabbage-leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, 
should be given to them. If not very well attended, 
their stench will destroy themselves, and be very un- 
wholesome to all who live near them ; but attention 
will prevent this inconvenience. 



PART XII. 

COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE 
POOR. 

SICK COOKERY. 
General Remark*. 

The following pages will contain cookery for the sick ; 
it being of more consequence to support those whose 
bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary 
nourishment, than to stimulate that of persons in health. 

It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be 
made of the things most likely to agree with the patient ; 
that a change be provided ;. that some one at least be 
always ready j that not too much of those be made at 
once, which are not likely to keep, as invalids require 
variety ; and that they should succeed each other in 
ditl'erent forms and flavours. 




SICK COOKERY. 



277 



A dear Broth that will keep long. 
Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, 
and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover 
close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is 
done enough for eating, with only as much water as will 
cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. 
When to be used, give what flavour maybe approved. 
- / quick made Broth. 
Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take 
off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce- 
pan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of 
water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits; 
put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice 
of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take 
off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. 
Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. 
A very supporting Broth against any kind of weakness. 
Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large 
handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take 
off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be 
added. Take half a pint three or four times a day, 
A very nourishing Veal Broth. 
Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with 
very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones 
of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three 
blades of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large 
bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot 
that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner 
after it has hoiled up, and been skimmed; or bake it: 
strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will 
require four hours. 

Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Veal. 
Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of 
veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and 
ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five 
uarts of water ; simmer to three quarts ; and clear 
fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. 




278 



noMESTtC COOKERY. 



Soup and broth made of different meats, are more 
supporting, as well as belter flavoured. 

To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as 
possible?; and if tlit-rc* In.- still any r- muinitig, lay n Lit 
of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in 
the basin, and it will take up every particle. 

Cadws'fett Broth. 

Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half ; strain 
and set it by ; when to be used, take off the fat, put a 
large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce-pan, with half a 
glass of Bweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat 
it up till it be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and 
beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit 
of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but 
don't let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. 

Another,— Boil two calves' feet, two ounces of veal, 
and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two of 
three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little 
salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints ; strain, and 
take off the fat. 

Chicken Broth. 
Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken-panada 
was made of, as in page 280, after taking off the skin and 
rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of 
mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corn*. 
Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not 
water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce 
of sweet almonds, with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil 
it in the broth, strain, and, when cold, remove he fat. 
Eel Broth. 

Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with 
three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a 
few pepper-corns; let them simmer till the eels are bro- 
ken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off. 

The above should make three-half-pints of broth. 
Tench Broth. 

Make as eel-broth above. They are both very 
nutritious, and light of digestion. 



SICE COOKER? • 279 
Beef Tea. 

Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer 
with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once 
boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved ; but 
it has generally only salt 

Dr. Hatcltff's restorativa Pork-jelly. 

Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, 
and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire, with 
three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half 
an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. 
Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the 
fat. Give a chocolate cup the first and last thing, and 
at noon, putting salt to taste. 

Shank J elly. 

Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then 
brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a 
sauce-pan with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty 
Jamaica, and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunco 
of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown 
by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and 
set them on a hot hearth close-covered; let them 
simmer as gentle as possible for five hours, then strain 
it off, and put it in a cold place. 

This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if 
approved, for flavour. It is a remarkably good thing 
for people who are weak. 

Arrow-root J elly. 

Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has been 
counterfeited with bad effect. ]f genuine, it is very 
nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a 
sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a 
spoonf ul of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar ; 
boil once up, then mix it by degrees into a desert- 
spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, with 
two spoonfuls of cold water; then return the whole into 
the sauce-pan ; stir and boil it three minutes. 

Tapioca Jelly. 

Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash 
it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or 



280 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



six hours, and simmer Jt in the same until it become 
|uite clear; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. 
L'he peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens 

▼ery much, 

Gloucester Jelly, 
Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, 
and eringo-root, each an ounce; simmer with three 
pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it will 
be a jelly s of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or 
broth, in change with other nourishment. 

Panada, made in Jive minutes. 

Set a little water on the fire with a gists of white 
wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- 
peel; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The 
moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, 
put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fust as it can. When 
of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. 

Anotitcr, — Make as above, but instead of a glass of 
wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter; 
sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. 

JJnother, — Put to the water a bit of lemon peel, mix 
the crumbs in, end when nearly boiled enough, put 
some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the 
ingredients ; for if auy be added after, the panada will 
hreak, and not jelly. 

Chicken Panada. 

Hod it till about three parts ready, in a quart of 
water, take off the skin, cut the white meat off when 
cold, and put into a marble-mortar; pound it to a 
paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, tea* 
son with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least 
bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to 
the consistency you like; it should be such as you can 
drink, though tolerably thick. 

This conveys great nourishment in small compass. 
Sippets, when the Stomach unit not receive meal. 

On an extreme hot plate put two or three sippets of 
bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mut- 



SICK COOKERY, 



281 



ton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle 
a little salt over. 

-Eggs- 

An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed 
with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more support- 
ing than tea solely. 

An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- 
rately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two 
very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when 
taken together. 

Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small 
quantity, convey much nourishment: the yolk only, 
when dressed should be eaten by invalids. 

A great Restorative. 

Bake two calves' ieet in two pints of water, and the 
same quantity of new milk, in a jar close-covered, three 
hours and a half. When cold remove the fat. 

Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. What- 
ever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon- 
pee), cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. 

Another, — Simmer six sheep's trotters, two blades of 
mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn 
shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to 
one; when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a 
pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. 

Another, — Boil 1 ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty 
Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, vx 
a quart of water to a pint, and strain it. 

This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house; of 
which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, 
railk, tea, soup, or any way. 

Another, a most pleasant Draught. — Boil a quarter 
of an ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new 
milk, to half: add a bit of sugar, and, for change, a 
bitter almond. 

Give this at bed- time, not too warm. 

Dutch flummery, blamange, and jellies, as directed 
m pages 187, 188, and 196, or less rich according to 
judgment. 



282 



HOMKUTIC COOKERT, 



Caudle. 

Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits : strain it when 
boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When tobeused, 
add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some 
like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like 

lemon-juice. 

Another. — Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a 
bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful 
of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, « 
a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. 

Another. — Into a pint of line gruel, not thick, put, 
when it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with 
sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, 
a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It il 
very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel, with 
a glass of table beer, augar. Sec. with or without a tea* 
spoonful of brandy. 

Cold Caudle. 

Boil a quart of spring-water ; when cold, add the 
yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonfuls 
of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons 

one ounce. 

A Flour Caudle* 
Into 5 large Bpoonfuls of the purest water rub smooth 
one desert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five 
spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it; 
the moment it boils, pour ioto it the flour and water; 
and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nou- 
rishing and gently astringent food. This is an excellent 
food for babies who have weak bowels. 

Jiice Caudle, 

When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice 
mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper con- 
sistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a 
glass of brandy to a quart. Boil ail smooth. 

Another. — Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, 
strain it, and put 2 spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and 
a quarter of milk; simmer till it will pulp through a 
sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the sauce-pas, 



KICK COOKERY, 



283 



with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer 
ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of 
milk, and serve with thin toast. 

To mull Wine. 

Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is 
gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar 
and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with toast 

Another tmtf.< — Boil a bit of cinnamon and some 
grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large-cupful of 
water; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add 
sugar to your taste : heat it up and it will be ready. 

Or it may be made of good British wine. 

To make Coffee, 
Put two ounces of fresh ground coffee, of the best 
quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups 
of boiling water on it; let it boil six minutes, pour out 
a cupful two or three times, and return it again ; then 
put two or three isinglass- chips into it, and pour one 
large spoonful of boiling water on it ; boil it five 
minutes more, and set the pot by the fire to keep hot 
for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beautiful 
clearness. 

Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and 
either pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar. 

If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, 
make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh 
roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry ; 
or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a 
preserving pan of a small size, and, when hot, throw 
the coffee in it, and toBS it about until it be freshened, 
letting it be cold before ground. 

Coffee MilL. 

Boil a desert-spoonful of ground coffee, in nearly b 
pint of milk, a quarter of an hour; then put into it a 
shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a 
few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow 
fine. 



284 



DOMESTIC COOKEIIY. 



This is a very fine breakfast ; it should be sweetened 
rith real Lisbon sugar of a good quality. 

Chocolate. 

Those who use much of this article, will find the fol- 
lowing mode of preparing it both useful and economi- 
cs I : 

Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits ; put a pint 
of wnter into the pot, and, when it boils, put in tb« 
above ; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on ,. 
gentle fire till it boils; pour it iuto a basin, and it will 
keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more. When 
wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with 
sugar, and mix it well. 

This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or 
flipper. 

Patent Cocoa 
Is a light wholesome breakfast. 

Saioap. 

Hail a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar, to- 
gether; then mix with a Bmall quantify of the powder, 
previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold water; 
stir it. altogether, and boil it a lew minutes. 

Milk Porridge, 

Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled ; strain 
off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may 
be approved. Serve with toast. 

French Milk Porridge. 

Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand to 
be clear, and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir 
it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine 
sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing. 
The proportion of water must be small. 

Tins is much ordered, with toast for the breakfast 
weak persons, abroad. 

Ground-rice Milk. 

Boil one spoonful of ground-rice, rubbed 
smooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of I 



SICK COOKERY. 

mon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when neaily 
done. 

Sago. 

To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an 
hour ; pour that off, and wash it well ; then add more, 
and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with lemon- 
peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and 
boil all up together. 

Sago Milk. 

Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly with 
new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity 
will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be 
diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or 

flavouring. 

Asset? Milk 

Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It 
sIk.si Id be milked into a glass that is kept warm by be- 
ing in a basin of hot water. 

The fixed air that it con tains gives some people a pain 
in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be 
taken with it, but should only be put in the moment 
it is to be swallowed. 

Artificial Assef Milk. 

Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, 
on ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo- 
root, and half an ounce of conserve of rosea, till half 
be wasted. 

This is astringent ; therefore proportion the doses to 
the effect, and the quantity to what will be used while 
sweet. 

Another. — Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two 
of milk, and an egg well beaten : sweeten with pounded 
white sugar-candy. This may be taken twice or thrice 

a day. 

. _' ■ . ther.— -Boiltwoounces of hartshora-«having9,two 
ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo- 
root, andone dozen of snails that have been bruised, in 
2 quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity 
of new milk, when taken, twice a day. 



DOMESTIC COOK Si II Y. 



Water (Jrutl. 

Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into • 
pint of water, and when smooth boil it. 

•Another may. — 1{ lib smooth a large spoonful of oat- 
meal, with 2 of water, and pour it into a pint of water 
boiling on the fire; stir it well, and boil it quick; but 
take care it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour 
strain it off; and add salt and a bit of butter when 
eateu. Stir until the butter be incorporated. 

Barley GrutL 

Wash 4 oz. of pearl-barley, boil it in two quarts of 
water nnd a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart: 
strain and return ii into the sauce-pan with sugar, and 
three-quarters of a pint of port- wine. Heap up, and 
use as wanted, 

A very agreeable Drink. 
Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table spoon- 
ful of capillaire, and the snme of good vinegar. 

Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded cur- 
rants or cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with i» 
little sugar, or not, as may be Bgreeable. 

A refreshing Drink in a Fever. 

Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little 
wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed and 
dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from 
the white; slice it, und put a bit of the peel in, then 
pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and 
cover it close. 

AnoOier Drink.' — Wash extremely well an ounce of 
pearl-barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints uf 
water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit 
of lemon peel ; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then 
put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. 

•Another, — IJuil 3 pints of water with an ounce and 
a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two 
ounces of stoned raisins, till near a third be consumed. 
Strain it on a bit of lemon peel, which remove in an 
hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long. 



SICK COOKERY. 287 

A mast pleasant Drink. 

Put a ten-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water. 
Jnd mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of 
water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of 
lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much 
fine Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the 
fruit ; and a ± of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be 
proper; boil all for half an hour, and strain off. 

Soft and fine Draught for those who are weak and have a 
Cough* 

Beat a fresh laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of a 
pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capj 11 aire, 
the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. 
Don't warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first 
and last thing. 

Toast and W ater. 

Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown 
and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a 
jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. 
This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be 
of a fine brown colour before drinking. 

Barley Water. 

Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it 
gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon-peel. 

This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barley ; but 
the other is a very pleasant drink. 

Another may. — Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few 
minutes to cleanse, then put on ita quart of water, sim- 
mer an hour; when half done, put into it a bit of fresh 
lemon-peel, and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too 
thick, you may put another quarter of a pint of water. 
Lemon-juice may be added it chosen. 

Lemon-water, a delightful drink. 
Put 2 slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a 
dttle bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large 
upoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, 
and stop it close two hours. 



■ 

17 



288 



DOMESTIC COOKITIY, 



Apple Water. 

Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of 
boiling witter on tin in; or on roasted apple*; strain 
in two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. 

Raspberry Vinegar \cattfr. 
(See page 230.) This is one of the most delightful 
drinks ihut cat) he made. 

Whet,. 

Thnt of cheese i* a very wholesome drink, especially 

when the cows are in fresh herbage. 

White-wine Whey. 

Put \ a pint of new milk on the fire; the moment it 
bails up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as will 
completely turn it, and it look clear; let it boil up, then 
jset the sauce-pan aside till the curd subsides, and do not 
stir it. Pour the whey oil', and add to it bait" a pint of 
boding water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will 
have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particle*, and 
fis weak as you choose to make it. 

Vinegar and Lemun Wheys. 

Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lomcn- 
juice as will make a smalt quantity quite clear, dilute 
with hot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit 
or two of sugar, This ia less heating than if made of 
wine; and if only to excite perspiration, answers as 
well. 

Buttermilk, with Bread or without. 
It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely 
to be heavy ; but most agreeable when made of sweet 
cream. 

Dr. Boerftaave's tweet Buttermilk. 
Take the milk from the cow into a small chum, of 
about fis. price; in about ten minutes begin churning, 
and continue till the flakes of butter swim about pretty 
thick, and the milk is discharged of all the greasy 
particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through 
a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. 



9ICK COOKERY. 



289 



It should form the whole of the patient's drink, and 
the food should he biscuits and rusks, in every way 
and sort; ripe and dried fruits, of various kinds, when 
» decline is apprehended. 

Bnked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make 
xcellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits, or com- 
mon cake. 

Orgeat. 

Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful or 
orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then 
pour a quart of milk and water to the paste, Sweeten 
with sugar, or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those 
who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly 
useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum 
arabic, has been found to allay the painfulness of the at- 
tendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if 
thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the 
glass of orgeat may he put into a basin ol warm water. 

Another orgeat, for company, is in page "229. 
Orangeade, or titmanmde. 

Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a little of 
the peel, and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a 
thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the 
juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more 
water as will make a rich sherbet : strain through a 
jelly-bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add 
water and capillaire. 

Egg Wine, 

Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water ; 
set on the fire a glass of white wine, half'a glass of water, 
sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to 
the egg by degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well ; 
then return the whole into the sauce-pan, put it on a 
gentle lire, stir it one way for not more than a minute ; 
for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve 
with toast. 

Egg wine may he mnde as above, without warming 
the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though 
not ao pleasant to the taste. 



290 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



COOKEHY FOR TflK POOR. 

General Remarks and Hints. 

I promised a few hints, to enable every family to 
assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial 
expense; and these may be varied or amended at tin- 
discretion of the mistress. 

Where cow a are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a 
valuable present, and a very common one. 

When the own is hot a large pudding may be baked, 
and given to a sick or young family ; and thus made, 
the trouble is little : — Into a deep coarse pan put half 
a pound of rice, lour ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, 
two i|ii»rt* of milk, and two ounces of dripping; set it 
cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but be 
an excellent solid food. 

A very good meal may be beBtowed in a tbingcalled 
brcwis, which is thus made : — Cut a very thick upper 
crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is 
boiling mid near ready ; it will attract some of the fat, 
and when swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to 
those who rarely taste meat, 

A baked Soup, 

Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two 
onions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint 
of split peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, pepper 
add salt, into on earthen jug or pan, and pour one gal- 
lon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the 
brend. 

The cook should be charged to save the boiling of 
every piece ofmeat, ham, tongue, Sec. however salt: 
as it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of 
fresh wnter, and, by the addition of more vegetables, 
the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of 
meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, 
Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons 
of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits 
of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain 
whole; the bones, ice. boiled till they yield their nott- 



COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 



291 



rishment. If the things are ready (o put in the boiler 
as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, 
and second cooking. 

Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves 
of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; 
cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas, 
after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or 
coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. 

Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of 
the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better 
nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; espe- 
cially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not 
fuel to do justice to what they buy. Hut in every family 
there is some superfluity ; and if it be prepared with 
cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to 
the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. 

I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons 
of soup could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not 
worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. 
If iuthe villages about London, abounding withopulent 
families, the quantity of ten gallons were made in ten 
gentlemen's houses, there would be a hundred gallons 
of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the sup- 
ply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and 
a half each. 

What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of 
bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal ! 
To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important 
an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother whose 
forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that 
others may have a lager share, frequently reduces that 
strength upon which the welfare of her lamily essen- 
tially depends. 

It very rarely happens that servants object to second- 
ing the kindness of their superiors to the poor ; but 
should the cook in any family think the adoption of this 
plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the win- 
ter might repay her, if the love of her fellow-creatures 
failed of doing it a hundred fold. Did she readily 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



. ntcr into it, she would never wnsli away, as tlselrsi, 

the peas or grits of which soup or gruel had been mads; 
broken potatoes, the green lieads of celery, the neck* 
and feetof fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, 
and various other articles which in preparing dinner for 
the family are thrown aside. 

Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the 
part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which 
contain an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the 
cook put by some of the water, and stew in it the above ; 
as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, until she 
obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when 
it makes a delightful broth, she should add a very 
small bit of onion, some pepper, mid a little rice-dour 
rubbed down smooth with it. 

But strained, it makes » delicious improvement to the 
meal-soup, particularly lor the sick ■ and when such 
are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones 
am! meat should be used for them, with little, it :mv, 
of the liquor of the stdt meats. 

The fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, as 
the poor like it, and are nourished by it. 

An excellent Soup for the Weakly. 

Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton into a large 
pan, with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Ja- 
maiea peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, 
and four gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and 
bake six hours. 

Sago, 

Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and 
bit of lemon -pee) ; when thickened, grale some ginger, 
and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sngarand two 
spoonfuls of Geneva ; boil all up together. 

It is a most supporting thingfor those whom disease 
has left very feeble. 

Caudle for the Sick it ml Li/iitg-i>i. 

Set three quart sol' water on the tire ; mix smooth as 
much oatmeal as will thicken the whole, with a pint of 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS, 



293 



cold water ; when boiling, pour the latter in, and twenty 
Jamaica peppers in fine powder ; boil to a good mid- 
dling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well- 
fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. 

This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be 
of incalculable service. 

There is not a better occasion for charitable com- 
miseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat 
or pudding sent unexpectedly has often been themeans 
of recalling long-lost appetite. 

Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for 
in the highest bouses a real good sick-cook is rarely 
met with • and many who possess all the goods of for- 
tune, have attributed the first return of health to an 
appetite excited by good kitclien-physic, as it is called. 



PART XfIL 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS TO 
SERVANTS. 

VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 

To make soft Pomatum- 

Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common 
water ; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain 
it, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy; let it 
drain from this; add to it some essence of lemon, and 
keep it in small pots. 

Another nay.'— Soak half a pound of clear beef-mar- 
row, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two 
or three days, changing and beating it every day. Put 
it into a sieve ; and when dry. into a jar, and the jar 
into a sauce-pan of water. When melted, pour it into 
a basin, and heat it with two spoonfuls oi brandy : 
drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, 
bergatnot, or any other scent that is liked. 



294 



iMJiitvrrc cookirt. 



Hard Pomatum. 

Prepare equal quantities ofbeef-marrow and mutton* 
suet as before, lining the brandy to preserve it, and ad- 
ding the scent; then pnur it into moulds, or, if you 
have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls 
to be of. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the 
glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. 
Pomade Dirine. 
Clear a pound and « half of beef-marrow from the 
strings and bone, put it into nn earthen pan, or vessel of 
water fresh from thespring, and change the water night 
and morning for ten days ; then steep it in rote-water 
twenty -four hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. 
Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namely, 
storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cypress-powder, or 
of Florence ; half an ounce of cinnamon, two drams of 
cloves, and two drams of nutmeg, all finely powdered ; 
mix them with the marrow above prepared ; then put 
all the ingredients into a pewter pot, that holds three 
pints ; make a paste of while of egg and flour, and lay 
it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece 
of linen to cover the lop of the pot very close, that none 
of the s team may evaporate. Put the pot into a large 
copper pot, with water, observing to keep it steady, that 
it may not reach to the covering of the put that holds 
the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling 
hot ; for it must boil four hours without ceasing a mo- 
ment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into 
small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Don't touch 
it with any thing but silver. It will keep many yearB. 

A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a 
pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two 
ounces of ho^'s-lard, on the ingredients ; and then ob- 
serving the eai fc ■ process as above. 

Pot Pourri. 

Put into a large China jar the following ingredients in 
layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers, two 
pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown; 



■ mown; 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 



295 



violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each; 
orris-root sliced, benjamin and Btorax, two ounces of 
each; a quarter of an ounce of musk; a quarter of a 
pound of angelica-root sliced; a quart of the red parts 
of clove gillyflowers ; two handfuls of lavender-flowers ; 
half a handful of rosemary-flowers; bay and laurel 
leaves, half a handful of each ; three Seville oranges, 
stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, 
and pounded ; half a handful of knotted marjoram; and 
two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite 
close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is very 
fine. 

A quicker sort of Sweet Pot. 

Take three handfuls of orange-flowers, three of clove- 
gillyflowers, three of damask roses, one of knotted mar- 
joram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful 
of rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of la- 
veuder, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce 
of cloves. Chop all; and put them in layers, with 
pounded bay-salt between, up to the top of the jar. 

If all the ingredients cannot begotat once, put them 
in as you get them ; always throwing in salt with every 
new article. 

To make Wash-Balls. 
Shave thin two pounds of new white soap intoabout 
a tea-cupful of rose-water ; then pour as much boiling 
water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint 
of sweet oil, fourpenny-worth of oil of almonds, half a 
pound of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dis- 
solved ; then add the soap, and half an ounce of cam- 
phor that has first been reduced to powder by rubbing 
it in a mortar with a few drops of spirit of wine, or la- 
vender-water, or any other scent. Boil ten minutes ; 
then pour it into a basin, and stir till it is quite thick 
enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be 
done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in 
quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may 
not fly off. 



domestic coot Ear. 



Patte for Chopptd Hani*, and which wiU preserve thm 
tmonth by constant use. 

Mix aquarterofa pound of un salted hop's bird, which 
has been washed in common and then rose-water, with 
the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a Urge spoonful of 
honey. Add as much fine oatmeal, or almond -paste, 
as will work into a paste. 

For Chopped Lip*. 

Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, s to rax. and 
spermaceti, twopenny- worth of alkanet root, a large 
juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruited,* 
quarter of a pound of untalted butter, and two ounces 
of bees-wax, into a new tin sauce-pan. Simmer gently 
till the wax, he. are dissolved, and then strain it through 
a linen. When cold, melt it again, and poor it into 
•mall pots or boxes ; or if to make cakes, use tbe bot- 
toms of tea-cups. 

Hungary Water. 
To one pint of highly rectified spirit of wine, put an 
ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drams of essence of 
ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let 
the cork remain out twenty -four hours. After a month, 
during which time shake it daily, put the water into 
It bottles. 

Honey Water. 
Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drams of 
essence of ambergris ; shake them well daily. 

Lavender Water. 
Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of laren- 
der one ounce, essence of ambergris two drams; put all 
into a quart bnttle, and shake it extremely well. 
An ejcelient Water to prevent Hair J ram falling off, and 
to thicken it. 

Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into n still 
with twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the 
same quantity of rosemarv-tnps. Distil as cool and as 
slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop 
till it begins to taste sour. 



r 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 



297 



Black Paper for Drawing Patterns. 

Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet-oil ; with a 
bit of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing 
paper with this mixture ; then dab the paper dry with 
a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the 
following manner : 

Put the hlack Bide on another sheet of paper, and 
fasten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on 
the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, 
and go over it with the point of a steel pencil : the black 
paper will then leave the impression of the pattern on 
the under s heel, on which you must now draw i t w ith ink. 

If you draw patterns on cloth, or muslin, doit with 
a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and 
a little water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it 
will be always ready for use; if fresh, wet to a due 
consistence as wanted. 

Black In!,. 

Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three quar- 
ters of a pound of blue galls bruised ; infuse them 
three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of 
green copperas, four ounces of log-wood chips, six 
ounces of gum arabic, and a wine-glassful of brandy. 

Another way. — The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is 
one of the best preparations in this useful article. Direc- 
tions are given with it how to mix it ; in addition to 
which, a large cup of Bweetwortto two papers of the 
powder, gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a 
packet of six papers is bought together, it costs only 
eighteenpeuce, and that quantity will last a long time. 
To cement broken China. 

Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it 
through fine muslin : then tie some into a thin muslin, 
put on the erifles of the broken china some white of 
egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and 
unite them exactly. 

An excellent Stucco, which will adhere to fYood-work. 

Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yel- 
low oker, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all 




298 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



'jn fine powder. Mix them with a sufficient quantity 
hot (but not boiling) water, to a proper thickness; and 
lay it on with a whitewashed brush, which should be- 
new. If the wall be quite smooth, one or two coats will 
do ; but each must be dry before the next is put on. 
The month of March is the best season for doing this 
Mason's Washes for Stucco. 
Blue. — To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound 
the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or 
brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time. 
Then pour it into an earthen pan; and set it by for a 
day or two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, 
and mix the colour with whitewasher's size. Wash, the 
walls three or four times, according as is necessary. 

Yellow — Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal 
quantities separately of umber, bright oker, and blue 
black. Then put it into as much whitewash as you 
think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it 
all together. If either cast predominates, add more of 
the others till you have the proper tint. 

The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing 
the lime and size with skim milk instead of water. 

Roman Cement or Mortar, for outside plaistering or 
brickwork. 

This will resist all weather; and may be used to 
great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water ci 
penetrate. 

Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds 
of unslackedlime, and four pounds of the poorest cheese 
grated through an fron grater. When well mixed, add 
enough hot (but not boiling) water to make into a pro- 
per consistence for plaistering, such a quantity of the 
above as is wanted. It must have good and quick work, 
ing. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as 
to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the 1 
space being left uncovered. The wall or lath-woi 
should be covered first with hair and-lime mortar, and 
well dried. This w;is used by the ancients, and is now 



is. 
of 



2 



I 



the 
srk- 
itis 
east 
fork 
and 
now 



VARIOUS RECEIPTS 



299 



adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does better than 
any other of this country. 

To take utains of any kind out of Linen. 

Stains caused by Acids. — Wet the part and lay od it 
some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without diluting 
it with more water. 

Another. — Let the cloth imbibe a little water 
without dipping, and hold the part over a lighted 
match at a due distance. The spots will be removed 
by the sulphureous ga9. 

^Another may. — Tie up in the stained part some pearl- 
ash : then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make 
a lamer, and boil the linen till the stain disappears. 

Stains of Wine^ Fruit, §c. after they have been long 
in the Linen. — Hub the part on each side with yellow 
soap. Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water 
very thick ; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the 
sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed in 
three or four days, rub that off, and renew the process. 
When dry ifckiay be sprinkled with a little water. 

Many other Stains may be taken out by dipping 
the linen fn sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun. 
Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three 
times a day. 

Iron-moulds should be wetted ; then laid on a hot 
water-plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on 
the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it and renew 
the process ; observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. 
Much of the powder Bold under the name of salt of le- 
mons is a spurious preparation : and therefore it is neces- 
sary to dip the linen in a good deal* of water, and wash 
it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part 
from being worn into holes by the acid. 

To takeoutMildew.— Mix soft soap with starch pow- 
dered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay 
it on the part of both sides with a painter's brush. Let 
it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out 



■MV, 



DOMESTIC COOKER V. 



To make Flannels keep their colour, and not shrink. 
Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, let- 
ting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. 

To preserve Furs and W ootlen from Moths. 

Let the former be occasionally combed while in u«p, 
and tin* latter he brushed and shaken. When not want- 
ed, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among 
them bitter apples from the apothecary's, in small mm- 
Lin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully 
turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. 

To dye the linings of Furniture* &c. 

Huffnr Salmon-colour, according to the depth oftht 
hue. — Rub down on a pewter-plate twopenny- worth o 
Spanish arnatto, and then boil it in a pail of water a quar 
ter of an honr. Put into it. two ounces of pot-ush, sni 
it round, and instantly put in the lining; stir it abonl 
alt the time it in boiling, which must be five or n'a 
minute*; then put it into cold pump water, and Unas 
the articles tip singly without wringing. When almost 
dry. fold and mangle it. 

Pink. — 'The calico must be washed extremely clean 
and he dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, 
and four ounces of alum ; take itont, and dry in thf air. 
In the mean time boil in the alum-water two bandfelaof 
wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take 
two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argnll Mnely 
pounded and sifted ; mix with it the liquor by little at a 
time. Then put into the liquor the calico; and boil till 
it is almost wasted, moving it nbout. Take out the ca- 
tlco, and wash it in chamberlye first, and in cold water 
after: then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it 
quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very high- 
ly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. 

Blue.~~ Let the calico be washed clean and dried; 
then mix some of Scot's liquid blue in as much water as 
will be sufficient to cover the things to bedyed,aml put 
somestarchto it to give a light stiffness. t)ry a bit te 



VAHI0US BECJEIPTS. 301 

see whether the colour is deep enough ; then set the 
linen, &c. into it, and wash it; then dry the articles 
Bingly, and mangle or callender them. 

To dye Gloves to look like York tan or Limerick, according 
to the deepness of the dye. 

Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling hot, 
and let it in fuse all night; nest morning wet the lea- 
ther over with a brush. The tops should be sewn 
close to prevent the colour from getting in. 

To dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. 
Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of roche 
alum, in three pints of soft water till half wasted. Let 
it stand to be cold, after straining. Let the gloves be 
nicely mended ; then with a brush do over them, and 
when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the co- 
lour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose 
dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, 
and with a spunge ruh it over the leather. The dye 
will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar 
will take it off, before they are washed. 

A Liquor to trash Old Deeds, fyc. on Paper or Parchment, 
when the writing is obliterated, ar when sunk, to make it 

legible. 

Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them in- 
to a pint of strong white wine: let it stand in the buii 
two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash 
the part of the writing which is sunk ; and by the co- 
louryou will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. 

To prevent the Rot in Sheep. 
Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. 

To prevent green Hay from firing. 
Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the 
mouth with a cord ; and make the rick round the sack, 
drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite 
nut when finished. The funnel thus left in the centra 
preserves it, 

2 a 



302 



DOMESTIC CQOKKRT. 



To preserve a Granary from /meets ana ff 'easels. 
Make the floor of Lombardy poplars. 

To destroy Cricket*. 
Put Scotch suuffupon the holes where they come out 

DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 

To clean Calico Furniture when taken down for the 
Summer. 

Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with * 
.mall lon^-bsired furniture brush ; oiler which wipe it 
jlosely with clean flannels, and nib it with dry bread. 

If properly done, the curtainB will look neajly as 
well as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will 
not require washing for years. 

Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. 

While the furniture remains up, it should be pre- 
served from the sun and air as much as possible, which 
injure delicate colours ; and the dust may be blown 
off with belloWB. 

By the above mode curtains may be kept cleao t even 
to use with the linings newly dipped. 

To clean Plate. 

Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn-powder in a 
quart of water ; while on the fire, put into it as much 
plate as the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then 
take it out, drain it over the sauce-pan, and dry it 
before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till 
you have done. Then put into the water some clean 
linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, they will 
serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things to 
clean the brass locks and finger plates of doors. When 
the plate is quite dry it must be rubbed bright with 
leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate- 
powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very 
injurious; and, among other disadvantages, it makes 
silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break, 
To clean Looking-glasses. 

liemove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp 
rag ; then polish with woollen cloth and powder blue. 



IiIUECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 



303 



To preserve Gilding and, Clean it. 
It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the 
gilding without covering it ; before which, blow off the 
fight dust, and pass a leather or clean brush over it ; 
then with strips of paper cover the frames of your 
glasses, and don't remove it till the flieB are gone. 

Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens it bright- 
ness ; it should therefore never be nsed for wiping it. 
Some means shoidd be used to destroy the fiies, as 
they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper like- 
wise. Bottles hung about with sugar and vinegar, or 
beer, will attract them ; or fly-water put into little shells 
placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. 
To Clean Paint. 
Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little 
long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose part with 
thebellows. With care, paint will look well for a length 
of' time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel 
into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry imme- 
diately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour. 

When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done 
from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented 
from running on the unclean part as much as possible, 
or marks will be made which will appear after the whole 
is finished. One person should dry with old linen as 
fkat as the other has Bcoured off the dirt and washed 
the soda off. 

To clean Paper Hangings. 
Tirst blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a 
white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the 
crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the 
paper, wipe it down wards in the lightest manner with the 
crumb. Don't cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the 
paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you 
must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after 
doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a 
little above where you left off If you don't do it ex- 
tremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to the 
paper. 

It will look like new if properly done. 



301 



DOMESTIC COOKEIIV. 



To give a Gloss to Jim Oak-wainscot. 
If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer ; then 
boil two qnatts of strong beer, a bit of bee's was VI 
large n» a walnut, and ti large Bpoonful of sugar ; wet it all 
over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright, 
To give a jlne Colour to Mahogany, 
Let the tables he washed perfectly eleun with vinegar, 
ving first taken out any ink stains there may be with 
spirit of salt ; but it must be used with the greatest cart, 
and Only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed 
oft", ifsc the following liquid: — into a pint of cold- 
drawn linseed oil, p\it four pennyworth of alkanet-root, 
and two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel ; 
let it remain all night, then stirring well, rub some of it 
all over the tallies with a linen rag ; when it has lain 
some time, rub it bright with Uueu cloths. 

Ktttiug-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, 
or baize, to proven! si-lining, .mil lie instantly rubbed 
when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. 

To take Ink out of Mahogany. 
Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large 
spoonful of water, and touch the piirt with a feather; 
watch it, for if it stays too lung it will leave a whit* 
mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat 
if not quite removed. 

Floor-cloth* 

Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is 
well covered with the colour, and the flowers on which 
do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out 
first. The durability of the cloth will depend much on 
these two particulars, but more especially on the time it 
has been painted, and the goodness of the colours. ff 
they have not been allowed sufficient space for becomin 
thoroughly hardened, a very little use will injure them 
and as they are very expensive nrticles, care in preserv 
ing them is necessary. It answers to keep them %a 
time before they are used, either hung up m a drybr 
where they will have air, or laid down in a spare roou 



DIRECTIONS 10 SERVANTS. 



305 



When taken up for the winter, they should he rolled 
round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint 
by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets 
answer extremely well, painted and seasoned some 
months before laid down. If for passages, the width 
must be directed when they are sent to the manufac- 
tory! as they are cut before painting. 

To clean Jloar-ctoths. 
Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel; and when all 
dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, 
and then with a dry plain, one ; but use little wax, and 
rub only enough with the latter to give a little smooth- 
ness, or it may endanger falling. Washing now and 
then with milk alter the above sweeping, and dry- 
rubbing thein, give as beautiful a look, and they are 
less slippery. 

To duxt Carpets and Floors. 

Sprinkle ten-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. 
The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk 
brush, as it wears them fast ; only once a week, and the 
other times with the leaves and a hair brush. Fine 
carpets should be gently done with a hair hand-brush, 
such as for cloths, on the knees. 

To clean Carpets. 

Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid 
down, and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; 
turn it the right stde upwards, and scour it with ox-gall, 
and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen 
cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. 
To ^iVe fo Board* a beautiful appearance. 

After washing them very nicely, clean with soap and 
warm water, and a. brush, wash them with a very large 
sponge and clean water. Both times, observe to leave 
no spot untouched ; and clean gtnu&ht up and down, not 
crossing from board to board : then dry with clean 
cloths, rubbing hard up and down in the same wav- 

The floors should not be often wetted, but very tho- 
roughly when done ; and once a week dry-rubbed with 
hot Band, and a heavy brush the right way of the 
boards. 



306 



DOMESTIC COOKERY, 



The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, 
or floor cloth, should be washed with spouge instead 
of linen or flannel , and the edges will not be soiled. 
Different sponges Bhould be kept for the two above 
uses ; and those and the brushes should be well washed 
when done with, and kept in dry places. 

To extract Oil from Boards or Stone, 
Make a strong lye of peal-ashes and soil water; and 
add as much unslaeked lime as it will take up ; stir it 
together, and then let it settle a few minutes ; bottle it, 
and stop close; have ready some water to lower it as 
nsed, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should 
lie long on the boards, it will draw nut the colour of 
them ; therefore do it with care and expedition. 
To clean Atone Stairs and Hails. 
Boil a pound of pipe-makers' clay, with a quart of wa- 
ter, a quart of small beer, and put in a bit of stone-blue. 
Wash with this mixture, and when dry rub the stones 
with flannel and a brush. 

To blacken the fronts of Stone Chimnetj-piecete. 
Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit 
of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. 
Wash the stone with soap and water very clean ; then 
sponge it with clear water • and when perfectly dry, 
brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry be- 
tween the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp- 
black must be sifted first. 

To take Stains out of Marble. 
Mix unslaeked lime, in finest powder,with the stronger 
soap-lye, pretty thick ; and instantly, with a painter's 
brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months 
time wash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready a fine 
thick lather of soft soap, boiled in . soft water j dip a 
brush in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as 
common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, 
give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish 
with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. 
To take Iron Stains out of Marble. 
An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon- 



DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 



307 



juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well ; wet the 
spots, and in a few minutes rub with Boft linen till they 
disappear. 

To preserve Irons from Rust. 
MeltfreBh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with \ y 
while hot ; then duBt well with unslacked lime pound- 
ed, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared wil' 
keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, 
except salad oil ; there being water in all other. 

Fire-irons Bhould be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry 
place, when not used. 

Anotlier way. — Beat into three pounds of unsalted 
hogs' lard, two drams of camphor sliced thin, till it is 
dissolved; then take as much black lead as will make 
it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and 
rub it thick on the stove, &c. and the steel will never 
rust, even if wet. When it is to he used, the grease 
must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be 
dried before polishing, 

To take Rust out of Steel. 
Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and 
in forty-eight hours use unslacked lime finely powder- 
ed, and rub until all the rust disappears. 
To dean the back of the Orate, the miier Hearth, and the 
fronts of Cant Iron Stoves. 
Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black 
lead, with, a pint of small beer, and a bit of Boap the size 
of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter's brush , 
and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot 
and dust ; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a 
beautiful brightness. 

Another way to clean Cast Iron, and black Hearths. 
Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten toge- 
ther; dip a painter's brush, and wet all over, then rub 
it bright with a hard brush. 

To take the Black off the bright Bars of polished Stoves in a 
few Minutes. 

Rub them well with some of the following mixture 
on a bit of broad cloth ; when the dirt is removed, wipe 
them clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. 



308 



DOXJUTIC COOKERY. 



The mixture.— 'Boil slowly one pound of soft soap 
in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three 
or four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery, 
No. 3. 

To clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pewter Porter Pots- 

Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large 
cakes, the small being mixed with sand : mix a little 
of it powdered, with the least drop of sweet oil, and 
rub well, and wipe clean ; then dust some dry whiting 
in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. 
The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be 
careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by 
the fire when they come from the parlour ; for if but 
once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. 
To prevent the creaking of a door. 

Rub a bit of soap on the hinges. 

A Strong Paste for Paper. 

To two large spoonfuls of fine flour, put as much 
pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling ; mix with as 
much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, 
and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. 
Fine Blacking for Shoes. 

Take four ounces of ivory-black, three ounces of the 
coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint 
of small beer ; mix them gradually cold. 



BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, &c. 



BILLS OF FARE, &C. 

Lint of various articles in season in different month*. 
JANUARY. 

Poultry. — Game : Pheasants. Partridges. Hares. 
Rabbits. Woodcocks. Snipes. Turkies. Capons. Pullets. 
Fowls. Chickens Tame Pigeons. 

Fish, — Carp. Tench. Perch. Lampreys. Eels. Cray- 
fish, Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbot. Thorn- 
back. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters. 
Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. 

Vegetables, — Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Sprouts. 
Rrocoli. Leeks. Onions. Beet. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. 
Spinach. Celery. Garlick. Scorzonera. Potatoes. Pars- 
nips. Turnips. Brocoli, white and purple. Shalots. Let- 
tuces. Cresses. Mustard. Rape. Salsafy. Herbs of all 
sorts ; dry, and some green. Cucumbers. Asparagus, 
and Mushrooms, to be had though not in season. 

Fruit. — Apples. Pears. Nuts. Walnuts. Medlars. 
Grapes. 

FEBRUARY AND MARCH. 

Meat, Fowls, and Game, as in January, with the ad- 
dition of Duckling and Chickens ; which last are to be 
bought in London, most, if not all, the year, but verj 
dear. 

Fish. — As the last two months ■ except that Cod is 
not thought so good from February to July, but may 
be bought. 

Vegetables. — The same as the former months, with 
the addition of Kidney-Beans. 
Fruit, — Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. 

SECOND QUARTER; APRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. 

Meat. — Deef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison in .Turn-. 
Poultry, — Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Ducklings. 
Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets. 



310 



DOMESTIC COOKKRY. 



Fi*h.— Carp. Tench. Sole. Smelt*. Eels. Trout. 
Purbot. Lobsters. Chub. Salmon. Herrings. Crayfish. 
Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. 

V egetables. — As before j and in May, early Potatoes. 
Peas. Radishes. Kidney-Beans. Carrots. Turnips. 
Early Cabbage*. C null flowers. Asparagus. Artichokes. 
All sorts of Salads forced. 

fruits. — In June; Strawberries. Cherries. Melons. 
Green Apricots, Currants and Gooseberries for Tarts. — 
In July, Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Goose- 
berries. Currants. Apricots. Grapes. Nectarines; and 
some Peaches, Hut moat of these are forced. 

Til HID QUARTER. JULY, AUGUST* AND SKPTSMBER. 

Meat as before. 

Poultry,— Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. 
Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey Poults. Two 
former months, Plovers. Wheatears. Geese in Septem- 
ber. 

Fish. — Cod. Haddock, Flounders. Plaice. Skates. 
Tliarnbnck. Mullets. Pike. Carp. Eels. Shell-fish; 
except Oysters. Mackerel the first two months of the 
quarter, but not good in August, 

Partridge shooting begins the 1st of September; what 
is therefore used before, is poached. 

Vegetables. — Of all sorts, Beans, Peas, French 
Beans, 8cc. ttc. 

Fruit. — In July; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine- 
Apples. Plums, various. Cherries. Apricots. Raanber 
ries. Melons. Currants. Damsons. 

In August, and September. Peaches. Plums. Figs. 
Filberts. Mulberries, Cherries, Apples, Pears. Necta- 
rines. Grapes. Latter months, Pines, Melons, Straw- 
berries. Medlars and Quinces in the latter month, Mo- 
rella Cherries. Damsons; and various Plums. 

OCTOBER. 

Meat as before, and Doe- Venison. 
Poultry and Game. — Domestic fowls as in former 
quarter. Pheasants from the 1st of October. Partridges, 



BILLS OP FARE. 



3U 



Larks. Hares. Dotterels. The end of the month, Wild- 
Aucks. Teal. Snipes. Widgeon. Grouse. 

Fish. — Dories. Smelts, Pike. Peach. Holibets. Brills. 
Carp. Salmon-trout. Barbel. Gudgeons. Tench. Shell- 
fish. 

Vegetables. — As in January, French-beans, last 
crops of Beans, kc. 

Fruit. — Peaches. Pears. Figs. Bullace, Grapes. Ap- 
ples. Medlars. Damsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nuts. 
Quinces. Services. Medlars, 

NOVEMBER. 

Meat. — Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House-Lamb. 
Doe- Venison. Poultry and Game as in last month. 
Fish as the last month. 

Vegetables. — Carrots. Turnips. Parsnips. Potatoes. 
Skirrets. Scorzonera. Onion. Leeks. Shalots. Cabbage. 
Savoys. Colewort. Spinach. Chard-Beets. Cardoons. 
Cresses. Endive. Celery, Lettuces. Salad. Herbs. 
Pot-herbs. 

Fruit. — Pears. Apples. Nuts. Walnuts. Bullace. 
Chesnuts. Medlars. Grapes. 

DECEMBER. 

Meat. — Beef. Mutton. Veal. House-Lamb. Pork 
and Venison. 

Poultry and Game. — Geese. Turkeys. Pullets. Pi- 
geons. Capons, Fowls. Chickens. Babbits. Hares. 
Snipes. Wood-cocks. Larks. Pheasants. Partridges. 
Sea-fowls. Guinea-fowls. Wild-ducks, Teal. Widgeon, 
Dotterels. Dun-birds. Grouse. 

Fish. — Cod. Turbot, Holibets. Sole. Gurnets. Stui- 
geon. Carp. Gudgeons. Codlins. EelB, Dories. Shell- 
fish. 

Vegetables.—' As in the last month. Asparagus 
forced. Sec. 
Fruit as the last, except Bullace. 




312 



DOMESTIC COOKKRY. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 

FIVB DISHES. 

Knuckle of Veal stewed with Rice. 



Apple-sauce. 



Bread-and-Butter. 
Pudding. 
Loin of Pork roasted. 



Potatoes. 



Potatoes. 



Peas Soup. 
( Remove — boiled Fowl.) 
Oyster Sauce. 

Apple-pie. 
Roasted Beef. 
Benton Sauce. 



Brocoli. 



Pigs Souse fried in Batter. 
(Remove for Yorkshire Pudding.) 
Potatoes. Peas Soup. Salads. 

Roast Veal. 



Stewed Beet 
and Onions. 



Hessian Ragout. 
Hessian Soup, 
of the above. 
Leg of Lamb roasted. 



Potatoes. 



Beef Podovies. 
(Remove — Card Puddings.) 
Mashed Potatoes Mutton Broth . Carrots 
grilled. and lurnips. 

Neck of Mutton. 



Potatoes. 



Salad. 



Broiled Haddocks stuffed. 
Light Suet. 
Dumplings. 
Round of Beef. 



Crimp Cod. 
Gooseberry 
Pudding. 
Leg of Mutton. 



Carrots, 
and Greens. 



Jerusalem 
Artichokes. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 

Spitchcock Eels. 
( Remove — Chine of Lamb in Cresses..) 
Potatoes. Damson Pudding. 

Cold Beef. 



Mashed Potatoes 
trimmed with 
small slices of 
Bacon. 



Scrag of Veal 
smothered with Onions. 
( Remove — a Fruit Pie. J 



Peas Soup. 
Hashed Hare. 



313 



Stewed 
Carrots. 



Brocoli. 



Tongue 
and Brains 



Young 
Greens. 



Carrots. 



Potatoes. 



Half Calfs Head, grilled. 
( Remove — Pie or Pudding, j 
Carrot Soup. 

Saddle of Mutton. 
Potatoes and Salad, at side table. 



Boiled neck of Mutton. 
Baked 
Plum Pudding. 
Currie of dressed Meat 
in Casserole of Bice. 



Bacon, 
Greens round. 



Turnips. 



Greens. 



Edgebone of Beef. 
Vegetable Soup. 
Pulled Turkey or Fowl, 
Leg broiled. 



Boiled Fowls. 
( Remove— Snowballs.) 

Patties of Greens, and 

dressed Meat. mashed Turnips. 
Chine -of Bacon Pork, boiled. 



314 



Macaroni 
Pudding. 

Potatoes. 



DOMESTIC COOKSBT. 
SEVEN DISHES. 

Salmon and fried Smelts. 



Peas Pudding. 

Turnips 
and Potatoes 



GibletSoup. 
Roast Beef. 
Leg of Pork boiled. 
Onion Soup. 



Stewed Celery. 
Veal Pattie*. 

Bread Sauce. 

Plum-pudding, 
" \ed. 



Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. 

Minced Veal, 
garnished with fried crumbs. 
Small Meat Hot Apple Pie, Potatoes 

Pie. in change for Soup. in a Form, 

Stewed Onions. Beans and Bacou. 

Saddle of Mutton. 



Carrots. 



Mushrooms 
stewed. 



FOUR AND FIVE. 
(FIRST COURSE.) 

Soup. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Bouillie. 
(second course.) 
Fricassee of Sweetbreads. 
Lemon 
Pudding. 



Peas. 



Bacon. 



(first course.) 
Mackerel broiled, with Herbs. 
Butter. 
Boiled Chickens. 



Greens and 
Carrots. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 315 
(SECOND COURSE.) 

Beef Cecils. 
*UL Fn.it Pie. 

Fore-quarter of Lamb roasted. 

seven and seven, 
(first course.) 
Broiled Salmon. 
(Remove — Chine of Pork.) 
Stewed Mince. 
Spinach. Pies. 
Peas Soup. 

Oxford Peas. 
Dumplings. Pudding. 
Fillet of Veal. 
(Potatoes and mashed Turnips, on side table.) 
(second course.) 
Ragout of Palates. 
Orange Fool. Potted Beef. 

Curd Star with whip. 
Collared Eel. Stewed Pears. 

Pheasant. 
( Bread-sauce on side table.) 

gIRST C0UR8E. 
ead and Shoulders. 



(Remove — boiled Turkey.) 
Currie " D ... 

of Rabbit. Pattles - 
Giblet Soup. 

Boiled Neck 

Eel Pie. of Mutton, 

7 Bones. 

Small Leg of Pork. 
Rntr small dishes of Vegetables may be put round 
the Soup, or two served at the side table. 



816 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



(SECOND COURSE.) 

Fricandeau. 

Orange Pudding. 

Lemon Creams. 

anchovy Toast. 

Teal, or other wild Fowls. 



Scraped Beef. 
Tarts. 



Brocoli. 

Chickens 
boiled. 



Almond 
Cheesecakes. 

Celery in 
White Snuce. 
CoUared Beef. 



SEVEN AND NINE. 
(FIRST COURSE.) 

Pepper Pot. 

Tongue braised. 

Hunter's Pudding. 

Celery, 
dishes in a Pyramid. 
Saddle of Mutton. 
Greens and Potatoes on the side table. 
(SKCOND COURSE. 

Roasted Partridges. 

Potted 
Cheese. 

Raspberry Cardoons 
Cream. stewed. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Hare. 



Chickens. 

Codsounds 
White. 



Stewed 
Pigeons. 



NINE AND SEVEN. 
(FIRST COURSE.) 

Stewed Carp. 



Parsley 
Butter. 



Currant 
Jelly. 



Butter. 



Epergne. 



Cheek 
of Bacon. 

Rabbits 
and Onions. 



Gravy. 



Green Peas Soup. 
(Remove— Haunch V enison.J 
Vegetables on side table. 



Cutlets 
Maintenon 



FAMILY DINNERS. 



317 



Mushrooms 
stewed. 

Currant Tart 
with Custard. 



(second course/ 

Sweetbreads. 
Sauce Robart. 

Trifle. 
Bread Sauce. 
Roasted Partridges. 



Blamange in 
small forms. 

Stewed 
Cucumbers. 



Palates. 
French 
Pie. 
Veal 
Olives. 



Stewed 
Pippins. 
Scalloped 
Oysters. 
Cray-fish 
in Jelly. 



NINE AND ELEVEN; AND A REMOVE 
(FIRST COURSE.) 

Turbot. 
(Remove — Chickens.) 
Liver and Lemon Sauce, 



Carrot Soup. 

Butter. 

Edgebone of Beef. 
Vegetables on side Table. 

(SECOND COURSE.) 

Wild Fowl. 
French 
Beans. 
Solid Syllabub 
in a 



Lamb's Fry. 
Tongue 
in Turnips. 
Rabbit brown 

in '. 



Goose. 



Lobster in 
Fricassee Sauce. 
Stewed 
Mushrooms. 
Apricot Tart, 
open cover. 



• nine dishes, two removes, and eleven, 
(first course.) 
Fish. 

(Remove— Stewed Beef.) 
Oxford Dumplings. Fricandeau. 

Small Ham. White Soup. Turkey boiled, 

Lamb Steaks Oyster Sauce, 

round Potatoes. Lobster Fatties. 

Fish. 

{Remove— Saddle of Mutton. 

2b 



318 



DOMESTIC COOKXRy. 



French Beans, 
in White Sauce. 

Open Tart. 
Lobster. 



( SECOND COOR1S.) 

Sweetbreads larded. 
Orange Jelly. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Form. 
Green Goose. 



Prawns. 



Puddins 
Stewed 
Mushrooms. 



(first course.) 
Fish. 

( lie move — H asked Ca{f't Head. 
Rabbit and Onions. Sauce. Lamb's Fry. 

Macaroni Transparent Beef-Steak 

Pudding. Soup. Pie. 

Veal R„tt*r Stewed Pigeons 

Cutlet*. umter * with Cabbage. 

Fish. 

(Remove — Sirloin of Beef.) 
(second course.) 
Chickens. 

Cheesecakes. Stewed Lobster. 

Raspberry Cream. 
Peas. Trifle. Asparagus. 

Lemon Cream. 
Macaroni. Apricot open Tart. 

Ducklings. 



Pigeons 
stewed. 

Tongue. 

Boiled Mutton. 



ELEVEN AND NINE. 
(FIRST COURSE.) 

Fish. 

(Remove — Ham Glazed.) 
Sauce. 



Gravy Soup. 

Butter. 
Fillet of Veal. 



Sweetbread 
grilled. 



Beef-Steak Pie. 
Boiled Chickens. 



FAMILY DINNERS. 



319 



Raspberry Tartlets. 
Collared Eel. 
Stewed 
Celery. 



(8ECOND COURSE.) 

Pheasant. 
Bread-Sauce. 

Plateau. 
Gravy and Jelly 
for Hare. 
Hare. 



Artichokes. 
Collared Beef. 
Stewed 
Pears. 



Oxford Puddings. 

Ham 
braised. 
Lamb Steaks. 

Potatoes. 



French Beans. 
White Sauce. 
Open 
Tartlet. 
Anchovy 
Toasts. 



ELEVEN AND ELEVEN. 
'first COURSE.) 
Stewed Beef. 
White Soup. 



Fish. 
Saddle of Mutton. 

(second course.) 

Sweetbreads. 

Orange Jelly. 

Whipped 
Cream. 

Wine Roll. 

Green Goose. 



Veal Fricandeau. 
Turkey. 
Oyster sauce. 
Lobster 
Patties. 



Prawns. 



Muffin 
Pudding. 
Stewed 
Mushrooms. 



eleven and eleven and two removes, 
(first course.) 

Salmon. 

(Remove — Brisket of Beef stewed, and high Sauce.) 
Cauliflower. 
Shrimp Sauce. 

Giblet Soup, 

Potatoes. 



Fry. 

Stewed 
Cucumbers. 



Pigeon Pie. 
Stewed Peas 
and Lettuce. 



Cutlets 
Maintenon. 



Anchovy Sauce. 



Veal Olives 
braised. 



Soles fried. 
(Remove — Quarter Lamb roasted.) 



320 



Coffee Cream. 



Raspberry 
Tart. 

Omlet 



Fruit Tart. 



Harrico. 



DOMESTIC COOKEET. 
(SECOXD COOUt.) 

Young Peas. 

Lobster. 
Trifle. 
Grated Beef. 

Ducks. 



Ramakuu. 

Orange 
Tonit 

Roughed Jeflj. 



LONG TABLE ONCE COVERED. 

Fisb. 
One Turkey or 
Two Poults. 
Mock Turtle Soup. 



Mash Turnips, Jerusalem Artichokes 
Carrots thick fricasseed, 
round. 

Cray Savoy Cake. 

Fish. 

Macaroni Pudding. 
Ham braised. Trifle. 

French Pie. 

Casserole of Rice 
with Giblets. 

Stewed Celery. 

Sea Cale. 

Apple Pie and Custard. 



Blamange. 

Sweetbreads 
larded. 
Stewed 
Spinach. 

Dried Salmon 
in papers. 

Chickens. 
Picked Crab. 
Young Sprouts. 



Fricandeau. 

Jelly Form. 

(Rcmovt 



Ox Rumps, and 
Spanish Onions. 

Ricb White Soup. 

Cheesecakes. 

Fish. 

-Venison, or Loin of Veal.) 



321 



GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 

Things used at First Courses — Various Soups, 
Fish dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. 
Boiled Meats and Stewed. Tongue. Ham. Bacon. 
Chawls of Bacon. Turkey and Fowls, chiefly boiled. 
Rump, Sirloin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leg, 
Saddle, and other roast Mutton . Roast Fillet, Loin, 
Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Veal. Leg of Lamb. 
I join. Fore-Quarter. Chine. Lamb's-head and 
Mince. Mutton stuffed and roasted. Steaks, va- 
riously prepared. Ragouts and Fricassees. Meat 
Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fish, 
and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison, Leg of Pork, 
Chine, Loin, Sparib. Rabbits. Hare. Puddings, boil- 
ed and bakf d. Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calf's 
Head different ways. Pig's Feet and Ears different 
ways. In large dinners two Soups and two dishes 
of Fish. 

Things for Second Course. — Birds : and Game of 
all sorts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and 
Potted Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of 
Lamb roasted. Brawn. Vegetables, stewed or in 
sauce. French Beans. Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. 
Fricassee. Pickled Oysters, Spinach, and Artichoke 
bottoms. Stewed Celery, Sea Cale. Fruit Tarts. 
Preserved-Fruit Tourts. Pippins stewed. Cheese- 
cakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, 
of which abundance are given from page 185 to 224, 
with directions for preparing them, such as Creams, 
Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince 
Pies, &c. Omlet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scal- 
lops, stewed or pickled. 

Having thus named the sort of things used for the 
two courses, the reader will think of many others. 
For removes of Soup and Fish one or two joints of 
Meat or Fowl are served; and for one small course, 
the articles suited to the second must make a part. 



322 



DOMESTIC COOKERY. 



Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c. are twice dressed, 
they add to the appearance of the table the first time; 
three sweet things may form the second appearance 
without greater expense. 

The Bills of Fare which have been given from pagt 
309 to 320, may be modified at discretion. 

In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up with 
the vegetables or sauces proper to it, and this in suc- 
cession hot and hot. In others, a coarse of Soups 
and Fish; then Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkey, 
&c. Made Dishes and Game follow ; and, lastly, 
Sweet Dishes ; but these are not the common modes. 

It is worthy observation here, that common cooks . 
do not think of sending up such articles as are in 
the house, unless ordered ; though, by so doing, the . 
addition of a collared or pickled thing, some Frit- 1 
ters, fried Patties, or quick-made Dumplings, would 
be useful when there happen to be accidental 
visitors : and at all times it is right to better the 
appearance of the tuble rather than let things spoil 
below, by which the expense of a family is more in- 
creased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables 
arc put on the side-table at large dinners, as like- 
wise sauces, and servants bring them round : but 
sonic inconveniences attend this plan ; and, when 
there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned, 
besides that, by awkwardness, the clothes of the 
company may be spoiled. If the table is of a due 
size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. 

SUPPERS. 

Hot suppers are not much in use where people 
J ine very late. When required, the top and bottom, 
Jr either, may be Game. Fowls. Rabbit. Boiled 
Fish, such as Soles, Mackerel. Oysters stewed or 
scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or Jeru- 
salem Artichokes, in white Sauce. Broccoli with 



GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 



323 



Eggs. Stewed Spinach and ditto. Sweetbreads. 
Small Birds. Mushrooms. Potatoes. Scallop, 
&c. Cutlets. Roast Onions. Salmagundy. But- 
tered Eggs on Toast. Cold Neat's Tongue. Ham. 
Collared things. Hunter's Beef sliced. Rusks 
buttered, with Anchovies on. Grated Hung Beef 
with butter, with or without Rusks. Grated Cheese 
round, and Butter dressed in the middle of a plate. 
Radishes ditto. Custards in glasses with Sippets. 
Oysters cold or pickled. Potted Meats. Fish. 
Birds. Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake, sliced. Pies 
of Birds or Fruit. Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. 
Cray-fish. Any of the list of sweet things. Fruits. 
A Sandwich set with any of the above articles, 
placed a little distance from each other on the table, 
looks well, without the tray, if preferred. 

The lighter the things the better they appear, and 
glass intermixed has the best effect. Jellies, dif- 
ferent coloured things, and flowers, add to the 
beauty of the table. An elegant supper may be 
served at a small expense by those who know how 
to make trifles that are in the house form the 
greatest part of the meal. 

Note. — Any of the following things may be served 
as a relish, with the cheese, after dinner. Baked or 
pickled Fish done high. Dutch pickled Herring. 
Sardinias, which eat like Anchovy, but are larger. 
Anchovies. Potted Char. Ditto Lampreys. Potted 
Birds made high. Caviare and Sippets of Toast. 
Salad. Radishes. French Pie. Cold Butter. 
Potted Cheese. Anchovy Toast, &c. Before serv- 
ing a Dutch Herring, it is usual to cut to the bone3 
without dividing, at the distance of two inches from 
head to tail, before served 



INDEX, 



A. 

ACIDS, stains caused by, in 

linen, various ways of taking 

ont, 299 
Adulterations, in the making of 

bread, how to detect, 245 
Ale, very fine Welch, to brew, 

247 

....... or strong beer, to brew, 

Ml 

. , to refine, 240 

Almond puddings, 137 

,., baked, 137 

, small, 137 

custard, 166 

cheesecakef", 167 

two other ways, 168 

, cream, 193 

Amber pudding, a very fine one, 
138 

American Jlovrer, management 
of, in making bread, 243 

Anchovies, to choose, 123 

to keep them when 

the liquor dries, 123 

.<. sauce, 1 19 

toast, 206 

another way, 

2u0 

.... ,., essence of, 123 

to make sprats taste 

like anchovies, 1 S3 
Apple-water, Iot the tdck, 288 
Apples, to prepare them for 

pulls, 162 

dried, 218 

dumplings, or pudding, 

trifle, 189 

fool, 100 



Apple, marmalade, 217 
jelly to serve to table, 

108; another, 108 
and rice, souffle of, 

185 

, or gooseberry trifle, 

I M 

... , jelly for preserving 

apricots, or for any sot! of 
sweetmeats, 217 

pie, 157 

hot, 1 57 

pudding, baked, 139 

pull- , 162 

sauce for goose and 

roast pork, 1 1 6 

, to scald codling, 198 

to keep cod tins for se- 
veral months, 226 

stewed golden pippins, 

198 

red apples in jelly, 217 

Apricots, in brandy, 210 

, to dry in half, 211 

, a beautiful preserve of 

apricots, 200 

to preserve green, 210 

, to preserve injelly,2 10 

, applejelly 

for this purpose, 217 

cheese, 211 

......... pudding, an excellent 

one, 148 

dumplings, 151 

Arrowroot jelly, for the sick, 

279 

Artichokes, to dress, 1 70 

, bottoms. 1 TO 

Jenwnk iii, 170 

, bottoms, to keep 

for the winter, ITT 



326 



INDEX. 



Articles in season in the differ- 
ent months, lists of them, 
309 to 312 

Auet' milk, 285 

, artificial, three 

ways of making, 285 

B. 

Bacon, to choose, 25 

, excellent, 69 

the manner of coring 

Wiltshire bacon, 09 

Bamboo, English, ISO 

Barberries, to prepare for tart- 
lets, 209 

, in bunches, 209 

, drops, 223 

/torfcy- water, 28T; another 
way, 28T 

grnel, 286 

Batter pudding, 142 

with meat, 143 

Bean (green) pudding, 148 

Beans, to dress, 1T2 

, fricoHneed Windsor, 1 72 

, French, 1T2 

Bechamel, or white sauce, 1 10 

Beef, to choose, 23 

to keep, 31 

, to salt for eating imme- 
diately, 31 

, to salt red; which is 

extremely good to eat fresh 
from the pickle, or to hang 
to dry, 32 

, the Dutch way to salt, 

32 

, a-la-mode, 32 

, a fricundeau of, 33 

....... en miroton, 83 

, stewed rump of, 33 

another way, 34 

rump roasted, 34 

stewed brisket, 35 

, pressed beef, 35 

, hunter's beef, 35 



Beef, an excellent mode of 

dressing, 36 

, collared, 36 

steaks, to dress, 36 

and oyster sauce, 

3T 

, Staffordshire, 3T 

, Italian, 3T 

, collop, 3T 

, palates, 3T 

cakes for side dish of 

dressed meat, 38 

, potted, two ways, 38 

, to dress the inside of a 

cold sirloin, 38 
, fricassee of cold roast 

beef, 39 
to dress cold beef that 

iins not teen done enough, 

called beef-olives, 39 
to dress the same, called 

sanders, 39 
, to dress the same, called 

cecils, 39 

, minced, 30 

, hashed, 40 

, a-la-vingrette, 40 

, round of beef, 40 

, rolled, that equals hare, 

40 

, heart, 42 

steak pie, 129 

pudding, 145 

, baked, 

145 

, a pickle for beef, that 

will keep for years, 68 

, pastry to eat as well as 

venison, 164 

patties, or podovies, 161 

broth, 2TT 

tea, 2T9 

Beer, (strong,) to brew, 248 

, (table,) excellent, 248 

, to refine, 249 

Beet-root, different ways of 
using, H6 



327 



Beet-mat, to pwarve to eat ia 

the winter, 177 
lien ton sauce, for hot or cold 

roast beef, 118 
tea-cakes, 230; another 

sort, whiacoilx, 239; Another 

■ort, 230 
] 1' u.s or fare, Sec. 309 to 312 
Birds, a very economical way 

of potting, 01 
Biscuit, orange, 213 

cuke, 239 

of frnit, 221 

hard, 247 

, plain, and very crisp, 

2-17 

Btack-ccpt, two ways of mak- 
ing, 103 
...... pudding, 6-1 

, two other ways, 

65 

Blacking for shoes, fine, 308 
Blanching a rabit, fowl, &u. 

explained, 96* 
Blanc-mange, or Blamnnge, 

166 

Jannemange, 1 69 

Boards, to give them a beau- 
tiful appearance. 305 

, to extract oil from, 

306 

Backings, 153 
-» Boer/maw' x( Dr.) sweet batter - 
milk, 266 

Baiting meat, observations on, 
27 

Braising explained, Hi 

chickens hruised, 66 

Bnwtly pudding, 1-1$ 

, crenm, 191 * 

, aprlcoU or peaches in 

brandy, 210 
cherries in brandy, 

21 H 

Brawn, to choose, 25 
souse for, 64 
.., muck, 64 




Brawn sauce, 1 15 

Bread, to moke, 243 

, Rev. Mr. Flagged. 'a 

economical brend, 244 

management of Ame- 
rican Hour, 243 

rice-ond-wheat bread, 

244 

, French bread, 2 15 

, to discover whether 

bread has been adulterated 

with whitening or cbalk, 245 
to detect bones, jelnp, 

tubes, &c, in bread, 245 

cake, common, 237 

pudding, boiled, 141 

.... ii Mother and 

richer, 141 

pudding*, little, 140 

and butter pudding, 

138 

......... brown-bread pudding. 

141 

, brown-bread Ice, 201 

Brentford rolls, 246 
Brewery (Home), 247 to -25H 
Brocoli, to dress, 172 
Broth. A quick-made brotU 

for the sick, 277 
, a i li ar one, that will 

keep long, 277 
, a very supporting one, 

against any kind of weak- 
ness, 277 
, of beef, mutton, and 

veal, 277 
...... OtheT broths are under 

different names; as i'/iicken 

broth, a i . 
Brown-bread pudding. 111 

ice, 201 

Brotcning to colour and flavour 

made dishes, 126 
Bubble and squeak, 44 
Bun, a eoud plain one, 240 
....... richer ones, 241 

Burnt cream, two ways, 191 



328 



MOT, 



Buttrr, to clarify for potted 

tilings, 92 

, to melt, ISO 

.......... to verve as A llltlo 

dish, 205 

oronge butter, lftfl 
Ohse rvntlon* respecting 

it, in the dairy, 265 

, to make, 266 

to preserve, 266 
to preserve it in pnni, 

for winter w, 287 
........ to mnnnge crenm far 

wbey-buiirv. -JUT 
......... to choose it nt market, 

268 

Jiutturtd rice, 1*5 

luhslcr*, SO 

|>r<i\viii4 and nhrimps, 

SI 

Buttermilk, 268 

with bread ur 

without, for the nick, 288 
, Dr. ltoerhaavc's 

sweet buttermilk, 288 
, pudding, 1 49 

a 

(kt'hages (red >, to pickle, 1 73 
........... (led), lo stew, 172; 

two other wnjs, 173 

, small, to keep for 

the winter, 178 

CARER, dec. 831 to 242 

observations an milk- 
ing' nnd baking cakes, Ml 

., teeing far cake*, 232 

to ice a very lur^o 

Cake, 232 

a common cnxe, 333 

a very 

good one, 233 

t an excelleti cuke, 

233 

, r very fine one, 233 

.........j rout drop-cakes, 234 

........ Hut cuke* that will 



keep long in the hoo*e 
J,(J 

Cases, little while enke*. 234 

little short c.uhf, j;' 

plum-cake, £35 ; an- 
other way, 3:»5 

wry Rood comirifin 

plum-Cake*, 2,'tB 

r little one*. 

to keep lung, 23ft 

, a good potuvlTAkr, 

23(1 

.., a cheap seen* eakr, 

2,(6, unothi-r, 231 
cijIiiiihiii (irivnl i :\itr, 

237 

, queen cakes; two 

ways of making, 237 

Slin-wsborv cskes, 

238 

Tunbridgw cakes. 

rice- cake, two ways i 

making, 238 

.., wnler.cnke*, 238 

sponge rakes, 239; 

other, witliuiit butter, j;i 

tM-aakaSfSM 

.......... Kenton tea-cak 

239; r» biscuit*, 23ft , 

other sort, 239 

, biscuit-cake, 339 

Yorkshire enke, 21 

, tipsy, 168 

Cakt-1rijk, 1M 
1'rile (sen), 177 
t'nlf x-ftet broth; two w«y« 

jelly, 1 06 

another 

196 

Culfg-head, to boll. 02 

, to hurfh, 52 

, another way, 

, fricaswed, 53 

to mllcr, 53 

a chenper waf 

54; another, 54; another,o5 



INDEX. 



329 



rJilfs-head pie, 130 
Cat/'s-tiver, broiled, 55 

,, roasted, 55 

liver and lights, to dress, 

55 

, roasted, 65 

Calfs-trains, k la M nitre 

d'H&tel, ,■■-<> 
Calico furniture, to clean when 

taken down lor the summer, 

302 

mp vinegar, 120 
To Cm a,/// atj)- sort of fruit, 209 
Capers, to keep, 185 

, an excellent substitute 

for caper-sauce, 113 

, nasturticns pickled for, 

121 

Capiilaire, 280 

Ctirmel cover for sweetmeats, 
195 

Carp, to choose, 2 

, boiled, 11 

, stewed, 1 1 

(like lamprey), 

S3 

, baked, 12 

Carpets, to dust, 305 

to clean, 305 

Carrier sauce for mutton, ] 17 
Carroie of rice, 203 
Carrots, to boil, 175 

, to Stew, 176 

, to preserve, to eat In 

the winter, 1 1 7 

pudding', I IT 

soap, 103 

Casstrol, or rice edging for a 

cuiTic or fricassee, 120 
Cast-iron, to clean stoves of, 

307 

i anotherway, 307 

(kiudlt, for the sick; three ways 

of making, 282 
, a flour caudle, 

good for babies who have 

weak stomachs, 282 



Cawlle, rice, 282; another, 

282 

, cold, 282 

to give uway to the 

poor sick, and lying-in, £02 
Cauliflowers, to boil, 171 
, In white sauce, 

171 

to dress with 

Parmesan, 171 
Caveach, pickled mackerel so 

called, 13 
Cecils, 39 

Celery, to stew, 171 
Cement for broken china, 297 
Roman, for ouunde 

plastering, or brickwork, 

206 

Chaniilly cake, 169 
Chapped hands, paste for, 206 

lips, ointment for, 296 

ChttrduQtts, various wuya of 

dressing, 176 

, to stew, 176 

Charlotte, A, 151 

C/ieese, to pot, 206 

, roiiat, tocome up after 

dinner, 205 

Welch rabbit, 206 

totwt, 206 

,., damson cheese, 220 

.., muscle-plum cheese, 

221 

<■ mum Cheese is also under 
di tie rent names; as Cream 
cheese, jfyrf'ntf cheese, (fee. 

Observations respect- 
ing it in the dairy, 2U0 

to prepare rennet U> 

turn the milk; two ways, 
2t>2 

to make cheese, 202 

to preserve it so and, 



2d3 



•2<il 



to make sage cheese, 
cre&m cheese, 264 



330 



1*0*1. 



Clfrtr, ru*h cream cheese, 

ins 

CJtrfteeaket, Ibrht paate fur, I M 

, way of making 

ibem, 100 
.. ... ......... »|'l«ti»r»nrt, 1M 

another way, 100 

lemon, I0U 

another, 

Ml 

10T 

i M line 

cruat for them, when to bo 
particularly nice, 150 

, potato, I0T 

almond, I0T 

m .., two other way*, 

Iff 

Cheetr'pn^f, ltti 

CAnry-fiif, 157 

Owrriet, to keep (Ilk* cur* 

rnnla), 220 

in bmmly, Jlii 
to dry cherries wiUi 

sugar, 215 
without 

sugar, 215 
tu dry tbem th« best 

way, 2 10 

,jam, 818 

, to pres^rre, 820 

Chitkent, to pot with ham, 48 

scallops of cold, 50 

, fricaum of, 84 

............ to poll chickens, OA 

.................. another way, 85 

............ to brni«* chickens, 80 

chickcn-cume, 85 

unolher, 

mure easily mndc, 80 
m chicken and paisley 

pic, 130 

,. chicken-pie, 132 

., ruined cruat for, 135 

broth, 278 

........... pounds, for the sick, 

£80 



f'ttickrnt, to fatten chicken* ib 
four or fiee day*, ST1 

ChtmMypii<+w, atone, to 
blacken the fronts of, 30e 

China, biukeu, a cement for, 

207 

Ckmathih, IS 

....... -orange j u ire, good to un 

with water for ieren, M0 
L'hocoUtt, lo prepare, 294 

cream, 103 

Clary wine, S54 

C*nm, patent, 9*1 

( '{outfit cream, 405 

fhvbie ketchow, IM 

t W, tu chooar, J 

....... uhsemtlone on btiyim 

and d renting, 8 
.... bend and shoulders, 
...... crimp, 9 

aoiinda, bolted, 

................ broiled. B 

dreaded, to took 

Uka small chickens, 0, .108 

aaastuis ragout, 

eurry of cod, Ml 

aalt, In ilrvn, 10 

pie, »*T 

CutlliitM to keep for several 

month.., _.'„ 

, to acabl, 100 

tart, 15ft 

cream, >M 

Oiffet, to nrnke, 283 

........ cream, much admired, 

103 

milk, 2VI 

Collngr (Sew) puddings, I (It 
Colouring for soups or grnrlw, 

to atniu jellies, ice», 

or cakes, 201 
Ofllopt, mutton, 73 

i veal collops, 40 

, another way, 60 

, Scoteh coNope, 0} 

, venl, dresjjetl >]»iclr, 49 



331 



ooeejiv for the sick, 2"tt to 

291* 

for the poor, 290 to 

203 

Cough, extract of malt far, 
249 

Cow-heels, various ways of 
dressing, 44 

, jelly of, useful for 

< soups and flavins, 67 
Cotes, mnnturemeut of, 259 
Coitslip-Piead, 25»* 
Craig, to cnooee, 3 

, bot, 21 

....... dressed, cold, 21 

Crack-nuts, 2-10 
Cracknels, 240 

Cranberries, different wnys of 
■ :!••'■ -! ng . -J." I 

jelly, 187 

.. and rice jelly, 197 

Crasler. Fish-sauce a-la-crus- 

ter, 118 
Craw-fish soup, 108 
Cray-fish in jelly, 21 
Creaking ot doors, bow to pre- 
vent, 308 
Cream. A cream, 190 

an excellent one, 190 
.. ...... burnt, two way* of 

doing, 191 

, uncle, 191 

, brandy, 191 

, rota An, two ways of 

making, 191 

, lemon, 192 

, yellow lemon-cream, 

without cream, 192 

white lemon cream, 

192 

ITlj.l-Vl.il. 19 • 

almond, 193 

, snow, 193 

i co it'ee -cream, much 

admired, 193 

chocolate, 193 
..,„,, codltn, 193 



Cream, orange cream, an ex- 
cellent one, 193 

, raspberry, two way a 

of making, 194 

, spinach, 194 

pistachio, 194 

clouted cream, I ')."> 

a froth to set ou crenm, 

which looks and eats well, 
195 

, ice creams, 291 

TntaRa cream, 201 

to manage cream in 

the dairy for making whey- 
butter, Su7 
, to scald, as in the 

West of England, 2aT 

, to keep, 208 

, syrup of, 268 

Cream-cheese ; threo ways of 

making, 2tH 
rush cream- 

cheese 5 two ways of making 

it, 285 
Cricket*, to destroy, 302 
Crust, raised, for meat-pies or 

fowls, 133 

, for venison pasty, )M 

, raised, for custard* or 

fruit, 155 

excellent abort, \55 
another, 155 

another, not sweet, but rich, 

loo 

, a very fine one for 

orange cheese-cakes, or 
sweetmeats, when required 
to be particularly nice, 
160 

....... for meat-pies or fowl-*, 

dec. 

Sea also the article paste. 
Cucumbers^ to stew, 170 
................ , another 

way, 170 
.............. and onions, sliced, 

to pickle, lsl 



332 



in n i x. 



Cvcrtmhrrx, \o preserve Ibem 

green, 1 70 

,, vinegar, IS1 

, to pickle young en- 
cumbers, i - 
Uitltix, nr Iimwm «r»nv, 10fr 
Curd-star, IM 
Curtis nnJ cream, 188 

I another vat, 

III 

...... find whey, Gnlllno, on In 

Italy, 2<JS 

...... pudding* or pufla, 140 

pudding, boiled. 110 

Currant a, to keep, 225 

dumplings, or pud- 
ding, lol 

pic, I AT 

, and raapberry pies 

or tarta, 

jellyi red or black, 

217 

... .... ... jam, black, rod, or 

whit*, 316 
............ aauee, the old, for 

venison, 117 
.whlle-curmutaurub, 

2flS 

f water-Ice, 201 

i wine, SKI 

, another way, 85) 

black-currant wine, 

my line, SSI 
Cttrrir, rice boiled to eat with, 

Cits'anln, mned crista for, 
155 

cheap and excellent 

oneH, 165 

„,......„...., richer, I HZ 

., baked, J6o 

lemon, Ui5 

.., almond, 106 

a froth to set on 

custard , which looks and eate 

well, 195 
Custard pudding, 147 



Cutlets, Maintenon, 49 

, another way, 40 

other way*, 49 
Cyder, to refine, 210 

D. 

pAinr, 2.'l> to 2»f> 

Ihim-vms, to keep (like cur- 
rants), 820 

■ lo keep Tor winter 

plea, 227 ; another way 2i7; 
another, 22* 

• • cbeoat, 229 

••• dumplings, 

nt pudding. Id I 

Davenport fowl*, 83 

l/rrdx l »h\), a vwuli (o make 
llielr writing legible, 33) 

Pmms/iirr junket, 202 

Dinners, general remark* con- 
icitiinn, 321 |<> 323 

Doors, to prevent from creak- 
ing, 308 

Drink, n very niireeiible -m 
for the nick, 280 

i a refreshing one la n 

fever, '.'HA 

, two others, 280 

, n most pleasant drink, 

287 

, draught for a cough, 287 

Drops, lemon, 223 

.., barberry, 223 

ginger} n good »to- 

mncbic, 223 

peppermint, 224 

, raUfia, 224 

Ducks, to choose, 80 

to mast, 80 

, to boil, s; 

, toatew, 87 

, to hash, 87 

wild, tu dreaa, 02 

, sauce for, 1 13 

pie, 132 

Management of duck* 

In the poultry-yard, 273 



INDEX. 



3S3 



Duke of Cumberland's pud- 
ding, 142 
Dumplings, Oxford, 150 

, suet, 151 

, apple, 151 

, currant, 151 

, damson, 151 

, yeast, or Suffolk, 

151 

Dun-birds, to dress, 92 
Dunelm of cold veal or fowl. 
48 

Dutch flummery, 187 

pudding, or souster, 139 

rice pudding, 139 

sauce for meat or fish, 

115 

To Dye the linings of furniture, 

&c. 330 
gloves, 331 

E. 

Eels, to choose, 2 

, spitchcock, 17 

fried, 17 

, boiled, 17 

, broth, 17 

for the sick, 278 

, collared, 17 

, stewed (like lamprey), 

18 

soup, 106 

pie, 127 

Eggs, buttered, 207 

, Scotch, 207 

, to poach, 209 

.... sauce', 114 

wine, for the sick, 281 

, little eggs for turtles, 

126 

mince pies, 158 

different ways of prepar- 
ing eggs for the sick, 281 

to choose eggs at mar- 
ket, and to preserve them, 
272 

Elder-wine, 253 



Elder-wine, white, very much 

like Frontinlac, 253 
English bamboo, 180 
English wines, remarks on 

250 

Essence of anchovies, 123 
Eve's pudding, 142 
Extract of malt for coughs, 
249 

F. 

Family dinners, list of, 312, 
&c. 

Feathers, care and manage- 
ment of, 272 
Fevers: China-orange juice, 
a very useful thing to mix 
with water, in fevers, when 
the fresh juice cannot be 
had, 229 
Firmity, Somersetshire, 187 
Fish, 1 to 23 • 
. . . ., bow to choose, 1 

, observations on dressing, 

4 

, to force, 125 

pie, a remarkably fine 

one, 128 

gravy, strong, 111 

sauce for fish-pies, 116 

, jelly, to cover cold fish, 

112 

sauce without butter, 

118 

sauce a-la-craster, 118 

, a very fine fish-sauce, 

117 

Flannels, to make tbem keep 
their colour, and not shrink, 
300 

Floating island, 186 

, another way, 

186 

Floorcloths, directions respect- 
ing tbem, 304 
, to clean them 

3M 2 c 



334 



INDEX. 



Floors, to dust, 306 
Flounders, to choose, 3 

to fry, 18 

Flour, American ; management 

of, in making bread, 243 
Flummery, 186 

, Dutch, 181 

, rice, 187 

Fondue, 205 

Fool, gooseberry, 190 

, apple, 190 

orange, 190 

Forcemeat^ to make, 123 
for patties, balls, or 

stuffing, 123 

ingredient* for, 124 

to force meat or 

fowls, 124 
for cold savoury 

pie*, 125 
, very fine forcemeat- 
balls for fish-soups, or fish 

stewed, on maigre day, 125 
, as for turtle, at the 

Bush, Bristol, 125 
Forcing, explained, 1 24 
Fowl*, to choose, 79 

, boiled, 82 

, boiled with rice, 83 

, routed, S3 

, broiled, two ways, 83 

, Davenport fowls, 83 

, a nice way to dress a 

fowl, for u smull dish, 84 

, to force, 84 

, to braise, 84 

fricassee of chickens, 84 

, sauce for, 113 

, a good sauce for hiding 

the bad colour of fowls, 1 12 
, white sauce for fricassee 

of fowls, 112 

sauce for cold fowls, 114 

, mushroom sauce for 

fowls, 114 
, lemon white sauce for 

boiled fowls, 114 



Fowls, to blanch, 96 

, a dunelm of cold, 48 

....... to roast wild fowl, 92 

vingaret, for cold fowl, 

120 

, collops of cold chicken, 

60 

, to pot chicken with ham, 

48 

Management of fowls in 

the poultry-yard, 869 
, to fatten them in four 

or five days, 271 
French-beans, to dress, 172 
to preserve to 

eat in the winter, 177 
French pie, 134 

bread, 245 

roils, 245 

Frkandeau of beef, 33 

of veal, 50 

a cheaper, 

but equally good one, 50; 

another way, 51 
Fricassee of fowls, rabbits, <fec. 

sauce for, 112 

crust for, 135 

of parsnips, 175 

Fritters, 153 

Spanish, 153 

, potato, 143 

, another way, 

155 

Froth, to set on cream, cus- 
tard, or trifle, which looks 
and eats well, 195 

Fruit, to preserve for tarts, or 
family-desserts, 228 

... .., ratsed crusts for, 155 

, remark on using pre- 
served fruit in pastry, 156 

, to preserve for winter 

use, 224 

, to prepare for children ; 

a for more wholesome way 
than in pies and puddings, 
200 



INDEX. 



335 



Fruit, to green, for preserving 

or pickling, 208 

, to candy any sort of, 209 

, biscuits of, 221 

stains, how to take them 

out of linen, 299 
Frying herbs, as dressed in 

Staffordshire, 176 
the Staffordshire dish 

of frying-herbsand liver, 207 
Furniture linings, to dye them 

of different colours, 300 
calico, to clean, 

when taken down for the 

summer, 302 
Furs, to preserve from moths, 

300 

G. 

Gallino curds and whey, as in 

Italy, 268 
Game, &c. 79 to 96 

, to choose, 79 to 81 

, directions for dressing, 

81 

George pudding, 144 
German light puddings, or 

puffs, 140 
Giblets, to stew, 87 

soup, 99 

pie, 332 

, stewed giblets, 87 

Gilding, to preserve and clean, 

303 

Ginger drops, a good stoma- 
chic, 223 

wine, excellent, 252 

another, 252 

Gingerbread, 241 

, another sort, 241 

, a good plain sort, 

241 

, a good sort, with- 
out butter, 241 

Gloss, a fine one for oak- wain- 
scots, 304 



Gloucester jelly for the sick, 
280 

Gloves, to dye them like York 

tan, or Limerick, 331 
, to dye white ones a 

beautiful purple, 331 
Golden-pippins, stewed, 198 
Geese, to choose, 80 

to roast, 87 

green-goose pie, 1 32 

Management of geese 

in the poultry-yard, 273 
Gooseberries, to keep, 228 

, another way, 226 

, another, 227 

trifle, 189 

fool, 190 

hops, 218 

jam, for tarts, 

218 

, another, 218 

.white, 218 

, pudding, baked, 

148 

, vinegar, 120 

Granary, to preserve from in- 
sects or weasels, 302 
Grates, to clean the backs of, 
307 

Gravies, 108 to 112 
, general directions 

respecting, 96 

, colouring for, 98 

, a clear brown stocx 

for gravy-soup or gravy, 98 

soup, 102 

to draw gravy tbat 

will keep a week, 109 

, a clear gravy, 109 

, brown gravy, ot 

cullis, 109 

, a rich gravy, 110 

, a gravy without 

meat, 110 
for a fowl, when 

there is no meat to make it 

of, 111 



336 



INDEX 



Gravies to make mutton eat 

like venison, 111 
, a strong fish gravy, 

111 

Grayline, to fry, 12 

Green, to stain jellies, Ices, or 
cokes, 201 

to green fruit* for preser- 
ving, nerving or pickling, 208 

Green sauce for green-geese, or 
ducklingK, 115 

Greengages, to preserve, 220 

-goose pie, 133 

Ground-rice pudding, 150 

milk, 284 

Grouse, to drew, 92 

Gruel, water, 286 

, barley, 2h6 

Gudgeons, to choose, 2 

Guinea fowl, to dress, 93 

, management of 

Guinea-hens in the poultry- 
yard, 275 

H. 

Haddock, 14 

, to dry, 14 

stuffing for, 14 

Hagget, llev. Mr., his econo- 
mical bread, 244 

Hair; an excellent water, to 
prevent it from fatling oft', 
and to thicken it, 206 

Halls, stone, how to clean, 306 

Hams, to choose, 25 

to cure, 66 

„ two other ways 

of curing them, 67 

, another way, that 

gives a high flavour, 67 

, a method of giv- 
ing a still higher flavour, 67 

, a pickie for them, that 

will keep for years, 68 

to dr,v«- hams, OS 

eiUHv, Ut 



Hangings, paper, to clean, 

303 

Hares, to choose, 80 

, directions concerning, 93 

, to roast, 04 

, to prepare and keep, 94 

, to jug an old hare, 94 

, broiled and hashed, 95 

pie to eat cold, 134 

, to pot, 95 

soup, 104 

Harriot of veal, 47 

of mutton, 7 1 

Harslet, 64 

Hartshorn jelly, 197 

Hay, green ; to prevent it from 

firing, 331 
Heart, beef, 42 

Hearths (the inner), to clean, 
307 

another 

way, 307 
Hens, to make them lay, 271 
Herb pie, 135 

the Staffordshire dish of 

frying herbs and liver, 176 

Herrings, to choose, 1 

, to smoke, 18 

fried, 18 

, broiled, 19 

, (red,) to dress, 19 

, potted, 19 

(like lobsters,) 20 

, baked, 19 

Hessian soup and ragout, 104 

Hog's head , to make excellent 
meat of, 61 

cheeks, to dry, 63 

ears, to force, 63 

puddings, white, 66 

lard, 60 

Home -brewery, 247 to 258 
Honey-comb, lemon, 202 

water, to make, 296 

Hops, gooseberry, 218 
Ho/ch- Potch, an excellent one, 



INDEX. 



337 



Hoteh'Poteh, another, 75 
Home-lamb steaks, white, 77 

, brown, 77 

Hungary-water, to make, 296 
Hunter'* beef, 35 
pudding, 146 

I. 

Iceing for tarts, 255 

for cakes, 232 

, to ice a very large 

cake, 232 
Ice, how to prepare for iceing, 

200 

ice waters, 200 
, currant or rasp- 
berry water-ice, 201 
.., brown-bread ice, 201 

creams, 201 

colouring for staining ices, 
201 

Imperial, 256 

cream, 102 

Indian pickle, 178 
Ink, black, to make, 207 
a another 

way, 297 
Iron-moulds, to lake them out 

of linen, 299 
Iron-stains, to take them out 

of marble, 306 
Irons, to preserve them from 

rust, 307 
..... another way, 307 

J. 

Jams. Cherry jam, 216 
,. currant jam, red, black, 

or white, 216 
... ...gooseberry jam for tarts, 

218 

, white, 219 

raspberry jam, 219 

Jurganet pears, to preserve 

most beautifully, 218 
Jelly, a savoury one for pies, to 

eat cold, 111 



Jelly, to cover cold fish, 112 

, calf's feet jelly, 196 

, orange, 197 

, hartshorn, 197 

, cranberry, 197 

, cranberry and rice jelly, 

197 

, apple, to serve at table, 

two ways of making, 197 
, to cover meat or any 

relishing pie, to be eaten 

cold, 111 
.colourings to stain j; (Hies, 

201 

, currant jelly, red or 

black, 217. 
, apple jelly, for preserv- 
ing apricots, or for any sort 
of sweetmeats, 217. 

, red apples in jelly, 217 

Jellies for the sick, 279 
Dr. Ratclifl's restora- 
tive pork-jelly, 279 

, shank-jelly, 279 

, arrow-root jelly, 279 

, tapioca jelly, 279 

, Gloucester jelly, 280 

, Other jellies are under 

the names of the different 
principal articles they are 
made of; as Calfsfeetjetiy, 
&c. 

Jerusalem artichokes, to dress, 
170 

Jugged hare, 94 
Junket, Devonshire, 202 

K. 

Kebobbed mutton, 75 
Ketchup, mushroom, 1 83 

, another way, 184 

, walnut, of the finest 

sort, 184 

cockle, 184 

Kidney veal, 56 

, mutton, 75 

, pudding, 145 



338 



INDEX 



Kitchen pepper, 128 

L. 

lAtmb, to choose, 24 

leg, 70 

fore quarter, 70 

, breast and cucumbers, 

76 

ahoulder forced, with sor- 
rel Muce, 70 
steaks, 77 

,hou8e-lamb steaks, white, 

77 

brown, 77 

cutlets with spinach, 77 

hend and hlnfre, 77 

, lnmhs fry, 78 

sweetbread, 78 

Lambstones fricasseed, 78 

fricassee of them and 

sweetbreads, another way, 78 

a very nice dlsb, 79 

Lamprey, to stew, as at Wor- 
cester, 17 
Lard, 66 

LarhtnnA other small bird*, to 

dress, 00 
iMvender water, to make, 200 
Jjavtr, 177 

Leek soup, Scotch, 104 

and pilchard pie, 129 

Lemoru, to keep, for pudding*, 

<fec.215 

, mince pies, 158 

, to preserve in jelly, 

214 

, cheesecake, 166 

another, 166 

cream, 192 

yellow, with- 
out cream, 102 

white ditto, 192 

custards, 165 

drops, 223 

« honeycomb, 202 

marmalade, 211 

juice, to keep, 228 



Lemon, pickled lemons, 181 

, lemon pickle, 178 

, pudding, an excellent 

one, 138 

puffs, 168 

1" 

white sauce, for boiled 

(owls or a fricassee, 114 

syrup, 886 

water, for the sick, 187 

and vinegar whey, 288 

Lemonade, to be made a day 

before wanted, 230 

, another way, 230 

that has the flavour 

and appearance of jelly, 230 

for the sick, 289 

I *ent potatoes, 184 

Light, or German, puddings 

or puff's, 140 
Lights (calf's) and liver, to 

dress, 56 
Linen, how to take stains ol 

fruit or acids out of, 229: 

also iron-moulds and mildew, 

299 

Linings of furniture, to dye of 
different colours, 300 

Litt of different articles in sea- 
son in each month, 309 to 
312 

Liver (calf's) broiled, 65 

roasted, 55 

the Staffordshire dish of 

frying-herbs, and liver, 170 

sauce, 114 

Lobsters, to choose, 3 

, to pot them, 19 

, to pot another way, 

as at Wood's hotel, 19 
, stewed, as a very 

high relish, 20 

, buttered, 20 

, to roast, 20 

, curry of them, 20 

soup, excellent, 107 

, sauce, 110 



INDEX. 



Lobster-sauce, nnother way, 

-pie, J 28 

....-putties, 161 

.-salad, 1T4 

Lftwkn syllabub, 201 
IjOoJcing-glastes, to clean, 302 

M. 

Macaroni, as usually served, 
204 

, two other ways, 204 

, dressed sweet, a very 

nice dish of, 186 

Houp, 100 

pudding, 14T 

Mncawons, 240 
Mtickertt, to choose, 2 

boiled, 13 

broiled, 13 

i. collared, 13 

............ polted, 13 

(like lobsters), SO 

pickled, 13 

pickled, called ca- 

veitch, 13 

pie (like cod), 12T 

Mugnwn bonum plums, 222 
MuAogany,lo give a fine colour 

to, 304 

to take ink out of, 304 

Maids, 11 

Mutt, extract of, for cougbw, 

119 

Mangoes, melon, ISO 
Marble, to take stain* out of, 

300 

iron-stnin>, 306 

Harmalade, orange, 211 

...... quince, 221 

lemon, 21 ] 

transparent, 211 

apple, 217 

Marrowbones, 43 

vegetable, 160* 

Mead, sack, 255 

, cowalip, 255 



Meat, 23 to t9 

, to choose, S3 to 25 

observation* on pur- 
chasing, keeping, and dregs- 
ing, 2, _ . to 28 

, to keep meat hot, 29 

Me ion mangoes, ISO 

Melted butter, an essential ar- 
ticle, rarely well done, 120 

Mildew, to take it out of linen, 
S09 

Miik, to keep in the dairy, 268 

rice and sago, 202 

coffee mtlk, 283 

ground-rice milk, - • i 

, sago milk, 285 

..... , asset' milk, 285 
Mild -porridge, 2M 

French, 284 

Milk-punch, or verder, 258 
Millet podding, 147 
Mince-pie, 157 

., without meat, 101 

, lemon, 108 

,eger, 158 

patnearewmblingmiuce 

pies, 102 
Muc/c-braicn, 64 
Mocft-turtle, 5i 

, a rlieaper way, 64 

, another. 54 

, another, 55 

Moor-game, lo pot, P2 
Morels and truffles, useful to 

thicken soups and unices, 

07 

how to 

preserve them in the win- 
ter, 178 

Mortar, Roman, for oulside 
plustering, or brick-work, 

Muffins, 240 

Mulled wine, two ways. 283 
Midtels, to choose, t 

, red, to dress, 13 

Muscle-plmt cheese, 221 



340 



INDEX. 



Axuhrooms, obMmtlom re- 
specting, 173 

, to dry, 122 

, an excellent way 

to pickle, to preserve the 
flavour, 183 

ketchup, 183 

, another 

way, 184 

to stew, 173 

powder, 122 

nauce, very fine 

for fowli or rabbit*, 1 14 

Mustard, to make, 121 

, another way, 

for immediate use, 128 

Mutton, to choose, 24 

, observations, on keep- 
ing and drawing, 09 

leg, 70 

neck, 70 

shoulder roasted, 70 

haunch, 71 

saddle, to roast, 71 

fillet braised, 7 1 

harrico, 71 

, to hush, 72 

shoulder, boiled with 

oysters, 72 

breast, 72 

loin, 73 

rolled loin, 73 

' ham, 73 

collops, 73 

cutlets in the Portu- 
guese way, 74 

steaks, 74 

, steuks of mutton, or 

lumb, and cucumbers, 74 

» steaks Maintenon, 74 

sausages, 74 

rumps and kidney, 75 

, an excellent hotch- 
potch, 75 

, another, 75 

- kebobbed, 75 

China chilo, 76 



Mutton broth. Scotch, 87 

pudding, 145 

another, 146 

pasty, to eat as well as 

venison, 104 

N. 

Nasturtions, to pickle, for ca- 
pers, 121 
Nelson puddings, 141 
New College puddings, 140 
Norfolk punch, two ways, 258 
Nuts (crack), 240 
dough, 168 

o. 

Oak-wainsoot, fine, to give a 
gloss to, 304 

Oatmeal pudding, 130 

Oil, bow to extract from boards 
or stone, 300 

Old deeds, Charters, dec. on 
paper or parchment, when 
the writing is obliterated or 
sunk, to make it legible, 331 

Olives, 181 

Omelet, 204 

Onions, pickled, 181 

, sliced with 

cucumbers, 181 

sauce, 114 

soup, 1 03 

, to stew, 171 

, to roast, 171 

, store-onions, to pre- 
serve in winter, 177 

Orangeade for the sick, 280 

Orange butter, 199 

mar ma bide, 2 1 1 

biscuits, or little cakes 

213 

cheesecakes, 1 67 

, a very 

nice crust for orange cheese- 
cakes, 156 

chip*, 213 

fool, 190 

cream, excellent, 190 



INDEX". 



341 



Orange jelly, 19T 

(China) juice j a very 

useful tiling to mix with wa- 
ter in fevers, when the fresh 
juice cannot be hud, 220 

juice, buttered, 213 

pudding, three ways of 

making, 138 

tart, 150, 1«0 

Orange -Jtencer cukes, 214 
Oranges, to butter, 1 Oil ; to 
butter hot, 212 

, buttered orange-juice, 

a cold dish, 213 
.......... to keep, for puddings, 

&c. 215 

preserved, to fill; a 

corner dish, 212 

, whole, carved, 212 

, to preserve in jelly, 

214 

Or gnat, two ways, 229 

for the siek, 2S9 

, another way, 332 

Ortolans, to roast, 83 
^jr-cbeek stewed, |ilnin, 42 

, to dress it another 

wiiy, 43 
.. feet, various way* of dress- 
ing, 44 
... rump soup, 104 
Oxford dumpling, 150 
Oysters, to choose, 3 

, to feed, 21 

, to - ten , 2j) 

, boiled, 22 

, scalloped, 22 

, fried, to garnish boiled 

fish, 22 

lonves, 22 

, to pickle, 22 

another wuy> 23 

pal lies, 160 

, or small pies, 

161 

snuce to beef-steaks, 50 

sauce, J 19 



Oyster soup, 108 
mouth ditto, 108 

P. 

Paint, to clean, 303 

Palates, beef, 37 

Panada, mude in five minutes, 
for the sick, 290 

, t wo other* , 290 

chicken, 280 

Pancakes, common, 152 

, fine one*, fried with- 
out butteT or hml, 152 

Irish, 132 

of rice, 152 

New England, 152 

Paper, black, for drawing pat- 
terns, 297 

Paper-hangings, to clean, 303 

Pantiesttn andcaulifiower,bow 
to dress, 171 

Parxlei/ sauce, when no pais- 
ley leaves are to be bad, J 15 

pie, 135 

to preserve for the 

winter, 177 

Parsnips, fricawee of, 175 

, to mash, 1 75 

, to preserve, to eat in 

the winter, 177 

Partridges, to choose, 80 
, to roost, 91 

, to pot, 91 

, a very cheap way, 91 

, sauce for thein cold, 

114 

simp, 100 

pie in a dish, 134 

Paste, rich pull', 151 

u less rich one, 1 54 

, rich, for sweets, 154 

....... rke, for relishing things, 

155 

....... potato, 155 

....... llirht, for torts and 

cheesecakes, 158 
j strong, for paper, 306 



342 



iNDr.x. 



Paste for chapped lips, 296 

for chapped hands, 200 

royal, called "au choux," 

16H» 

Pastry, 154 to 168 

observations on, 156 

remark on using pre* 

served fruit in, 166 
Patty, to prepare venison for, 

163 

, venison pasty, 163 

of beef or mutton, to eat 

as well as venison, 101 

potato, 164 

Patent cocoa, 884 
Pattiet, fried, 160 

oyster, 160 » 

, or small pte, 161 

, lobster, 161 

beef, orpodovies, 161 

, real, 161 

, turkey, 161 

> , sweet, 162 

, resembling mince-pies, 

162 

, force-meat for, 123 

Other putties are under 

the numes of the articles 

they are made of. 
Peaches in brandy, 210 
Pea-fowl, to dress, 93 
, management of them 

in the poultry-yard, 2T4 
Pears, stewed, 109 

baked, 109 

, jnrgonel, to preserve 

most beautifully, 218 
Peas, to boil, 169* 

, (old) soup, 101 

, (green) ditto, 101 

to stew, 169* 

, to keep, 169* 

, another way, as 

practised in the emperor of 

Russia's kitchen, 160* 
Pepper, kitchen, 122 
Peppermint drops, 221 



Pepper-pot, J 00 to 10T 
Perch, 12 

, to choose, 2 

, to fry (like trout), 12 

Pettitoes, 61 

Pewter (patent) porter-pots, to 

clean, 308 
Pheasants, to choose, 81 

., , to roast, 01 

Pickles, 178 to 185 

rules to be obser- 

, ved with regard to them, 
' 1»8 

pickle that will keep 

for years, for hams, tongues, 

or beef, 68 
, Pickles are under 

the names of the articles 

pickled. 
Pies, savoury, 120 to 136 
, observations 

on, 126 

, fruit-pieK, 15T, &c. 

Pies are under the names 

of the principal articles they 

are mude of; as Apple pie. 

Eel pie, &c. 
Pig (sucking), to scald, 00 

, to roast, 00 

Pig's cheek, to prepare foi 

boiling, 02 

head collared, 02 

feet and ears, different 

ways of dressing, 03 

fricasseed, 03 

jelly of feet and ears, 

64 

souse for, 64 

harslet, 04 

Pigeons, to choose, 80 
, various ways of dress- 
ing, 87 

, to stew, two ways, 88 

to broil, 88 

, to roast, 88 

, to pickle, 88 

in jelly, 89 



INDEX. 



343 



Pigeon*, the same, n beautiful 

dish, S9 

, to pot, BO 

pie, 134 

, management of live 

pigeons, 275 
Pike, to choose, 2 
to buke, 14 

, -itiiflV," for,14 

Pi (chard and leek pie, J 29 
Pipers, to dress, 14 
Pippin pudding, 149 

tnrt, 159 

stewed golden pippins, 

|M 

Pistar.hio-mtm, 194 

Plaice, w\ excellent way of 

dressing a largo one, 10 
Vtale, to clean, 302 
Plovers, to choose, 80 

, to dress, 93 

f to dress their eggs, 

93 

Plums, Ma^nam-honum plums 
excellent tw a sweetmeat, or 
jti " .i 's though bad tD est 
raw, '22-2 
Plum cake, two ways of milk- 
ing, tu 

,, very good common 

ones, 236 

little ones, to keep 

long, 236 
Plum pudding, common, 147 
Podovies, or beef patties, l(il 
Pomade divine, lo make, 294 
Pumittum, soft, to make, 293 

, another way, 293 

, hard, 204 

PoCiA, COOKER* FOn, 290 to 

293 

, general 

remarks and hints on (hit 
subject, 290 

Pork, to choose, 24 

, to salt for eating imme- 
diately, 31 



Fork, remarks oa cutting up, 
&c. 56 

, to roast a lee, 57 

, to boil i leg, 57 

, loin and neck, roast, 58 

, shoulders mid breasts, 58 

rolled neck, 58 

....... spring or forehand, 58 

, sparerib, 58 

griskin, 58 

,, blade-bane, 58 

to dress pork as lamb, 

59 

to pickle, 59 

, steaks, 59 

, sausages, 59 

, an excellent sausage to 

eat cold, 59 
...... pies, excellent to eat cold, 

131 

jelly, Dr. Rutcliffs resto- 
rative, 279 

Porker's head, to roast, 62 

Portable soup, 105 

Pot-pourri, to mnke, 294 

, a quicker sort of 

iweetpot, 295 

Potatoes, to boil, 1 74 
to broil, 174 

t to roast, 1 75 

, to fry, 175 

, to mash, 175 

, .., cheesecakes, 167 

, Lent, 185 

paste, 155 

pasty, 104 

.... .... pie, 135 

pudding, no excellent 

plain one, 145 

pudding with meat, 

145 

rolls, 246 

Potted shrimps, 21 

Potting bints, ft very cheap 

way of, 91 
,., to clarify butter for 

potted things, 92 



344 



INDEX. 



Poultbt, Ac. 79 to 96 

direction* for dress- 

ing, 81 

Poultry- yard, 269 to 276 
Pound cake, Rood, 236 
Praums, to choose, 3 

, curry of, 20 

, to butter, 21 

and cray-fbh In jelly, 

21 

roup, 10ft 

Pmcskrves, &c. 185 to 23 1 

Prenrved fruit, remark* on 
using it In pantry, 158 

to preserve fruit for 

winter use, 224 to 22ft 

Prune tart, 159 

Puddings, &c. 136 to 153 

observations on ma- 
king them, 136 

, a quick-made one, 

150 

, in baste, 1 10 

, to keep orange* or 

lemons for, 215 

Other puddings are 

under the mimes of the prin- 
ciple articles they are made 
of, or their first names; as 
Bread pudding, Light pud- 
ding, &c. 
Puff'-patte, rich, 151 

,., less rich, 154 

, light or German purls, 

140 

, excellent light ones, 

162 

, apple-puffs, 162 

, lemon-puffs, 162 

cheese-puffs, 102 

, to prepare apples for 

puffs 162 
PkUs d' amour, 1S8 
Punch, an excellent method of 
making, 257 

, milk, or verder, 257 

, Norfolk, two ways, 258 



Purple, a beautiful one foi 
dying gloves, 331 



a 

Quail*, to dress, 93 

Quaking pudding, 143 

Queen cakes, two ways of ma- 
king, 237 

Quick-made pudding, 150 

Quinces, to preserve whole or 
half, 221 

, quince marmalade, 

221 

R* 

Rabbits, to choose, 80 
, various ways of dress- 
ing, 05 

, to make them taste 

much like hare, 95 

, to pot, 96 

, to blanch, 90 

pie, (like chicken,) 

132 

, fricasseed, crust for, 

135 

management of live rab- 
bits, 276 

Ragout (Hessian), and soup, 
104 

Raited crust for custards or 

fruit, 155 
for meat-pies or 

fowls, <fec. 135 
Raisin wine, excellent, 254 

, with cyder, 255 

, without cyder. 

255 

Ramaklns, 205 

Raspberry tart with cream, 
160 

brandy, 256 

cakes, 224 

cream, two ways. 

194 



INDEX. 



Raspberry, jajm, 219 

, another way 

220 

jelly, for Ices or creams, 

310 

vinegar. 330 

vinegar- water, for the 

sick, 288 

water-ice, 201 

mt wine, two ways of 

making, 251 

and currant tart, 15* 

Ratafia, 258 

... ... cream, 201 

., another way, 284 

... ... drops, 224 

Ratclijps (Dr.) restorative 

pork-jelly, 270 
Receipts, various, 293 to 

302 

Red, a beautiful one, to stain 

jellies, ices, or cakes, 201 
Red apples, in jelly, 217 
Red cabbage, to stew, 172 

, to pickle, 18,i 

Red herrings, to dress, 19 
Red mullet, to dress, 13 
Rennet, to prepare tt to turn 
the milk in making cheese, 
2412 

Restorative, a great one, 2§1 

, two others, 28] 

... . , another, n most 

pleasant draught, 281 

pork-jelly, 27 D 

Rhubarb Un. 1 00 
Rice, savoury, 203 

edging, or casserol, 120 
boiled to eat with currie 

or roast meats, 340 
....... carrole of, 203 

buttered, 185 

cake, two ways, 238 

and wheat bread, 

244 

caudle for the sick, 282 

another, 1!S2 



Rice, (lam 



mery. 



187 



... and spphj, souffle of, 135 
.. milk, 202 

... grountl-rice milk, §84 
..pudding, Dutch, I H 

, small, 143 

.. plain, I U 

, rich, 143 

, with fruit, 144 

, baked, 144 

, unother, tor the 

family, 144 

ground 150 

Roasting meat, observations 
on, 28 

Robart, aauce., for rumps or 
e teaks, 115 

Rolls, excellent, 245 

, French, 245 

, Brentford, 210 

, potato, 246 

Roman cement, or mortar, for 
outside plastering, or brick- 
work, 298 

Rot in Sheep, to prevent, 331 

Rout drop cake, 231 

Riiff* and reeve*, to dws, 93 

Rump of beef, stewed, S3 

, another way, 34 

M- - 1 34 

... ..... ox-rump soup, 104 

.. ...... mutton and kidney, 75 

Rusts, 212 

Russian-seed pudding, 150 
Rust, to preserve irons from, 
307 

, to take it out of steel. 307 

S. 

Sack cream, 191 
,,, ., mead, 255 
Sage cheese, to make, 2H4 
Sago, to prepare, for the sick, 
285 

,, to prepare, to give away 

to poor families, 2U2 
milk, 285 



346 



INDEX. 



Sago, padding, 137 
Salad, French, 1T4 

lobster, 174 

Saimagutulif, 203 
Salmon, to choose, 1 

, to boil, 

, to broil, 6 

t, to pot, 6 

, to dry, 7 

, an excellent dish of 

dried, 7 

, to pickle, 7 

, collared, 8 

Saloop,iU 

Sauces, &c. 112 to 126 

, a very good sauce, 

especially, to hide the bad 
colour of fowl*, 112 
, whit* sauce for fricas- 
see of fowl*, rabbits, white 
meat, flsh, or vegetables, 112 

, sauce for wild-fowl, 

113 

, another for the same, 

or for ducks, 113 

, an excellent sauce for 

carp, or boiled turkey, 113 

, sauce for fowl of any 

sort, 113 

for cold fowl, or part- 
ridge, 1)3 
alaMnitred'Hotel,114 

a very fine mushroom- 
sauce for fowls or rabbits, 
114 

, lemon white sauce, fur 

boiled fowls, 144 

, liver-sauce, 114 

, egg-sauce, 1)4 

, onion-sauce, 1 14 

, clear shalot-sauce, 1 15 

,parsley-sauce, to make, 

when no parsley-leaves can 

be hud, 115 
, green-sauce, for green 

geese, or ducklings, 1 15 
, bread-sauce, 115 



Sauce, Dutch sauce, for meat 

or flsh, 115 
, sauce Robert, for romps 

or steaks, 116 
, Benton sauce, for hot 

or cold roast beef, 116 
, sauce for fish pies, where 

cream Is not ordered; two 

ways of making, 116 
, Tomata sauce, for hot 

or cold meats, 116 
, apple-sauce, for goose 

and roast pork, 116 
, the old currant-sauce for 

venison, 117 

, lemon-sauce, 117 

, carrier-sauce, for mut- 
ton, 117 

, ham-sauce, 117 

, a very fine fish-sauce, 

117 

another, 117 

, ft* b -sauce without bat- 
ter, 118 

, fish sauce a-la-Craster, 

118 

, an excellent substitute 

for caper-sauce, 118 

, oyster-sauce, 110 

, lobster-sauce, two ways, 

110 

, shrimp-sauce, 110 

, anchovy-sauce, 110 

, white-sauce, or becha- 
mel, 110 

Some other sauces, &c. 

are under the names of dif- 
ferent dishes, or of the 
principal articles the sauces 
are made of. 

Sausages, veal, 51 

, pork, 50 

, an excellent sausage 

to eat cold, 50 

, Spadbury's Oxford 

sausages, 60 

, mutton, 74 



INDEX. 



347 



Scallops of cold veal or chicken, 
50 

Scotch collops, 52 

mutton broth, 97 

leek soup, 104 

eggs, 207 

Sea-cale, 177 

Seed cake, a cheap one, 23ft 

, another, 237 

Servants, Directions for, 
302 

Shalot sauce, clear, 1 15 

vinegar, 120 

Shank jelly, for the sick, 279 
Sheep; to prevent the rot in 

sheep, 331 
Shelford pudding, 148 
Shoes, a fine blacking for, 308 
Short-cakes, little ones, how 

to make, 235 
Shrewsbury cakes, 238 
SJirimps, to choose, 3 

.., to butter, 21 

, to pot, 21 

, sauce, 1 19 

, pie, excellent, 128 

Shrub, white currant, 258 
Sick Persons, Cookery for, 

276 to 289 
general remarks on the 

subject, 276 
Sippets for the sick, when the 

stomach will not receive 

meat, 280 
Skate, 11 

, to choose, 1 

, crimp, 11 

., soup, 107 

Smelts, to choose, 2 

, to fry, 16 

Snipes, to dress, 23 

Snow may be used instead of 
eggs, in puddings or pan- 
cakes, 152 

...... balls, 185 

cream, 193 

Soles, to choose, 1 



Soles, boiled, 15 

, fried, 15 

, another way, 15 

, stewed, 15 

(like lamprey,) 23 

, in the Portugese way, 

15 

, Portugese stuffing for 

soles baked, 15 

, pie, 128 

Somersetshire firmity, 187 

Sorrel, to stew, for fricandeau, 
and roast meat, 174 

Souffle of rice and apple, 185 

Sounds, cod's, to look like 
small chicken, 308 

Soups, &c. 96 to 112 

General directions re- 
specting them, 96 

, colouring for, 98 

, julienne, 98 

, an excellent soup, 98 

, an excellent white 

one, 98 

, a plainer white one, 99 

a-la-sap, 105 

, portable, 105 

, soup maigre, 106 

, another, 106 

, a baked one, to give 

away to poor families, 290 
, for the weakly, for the 

same purpose, 292 
, Other soups are under 

the names of the principal 

articles they are made of. 
Souse for brawn, and for pig's 

feet and ears, 64. 
Somter, or Dutch pudding, 139 
Spadbury's Oxford sausages,60 
Sparerib of pork, 58 
Spinach, to boil, 1 72 

, soup, 103 

Sprats, 18 

, to choose, 3 

, baked, 19 

, , to broil, 19 



348 



INDEX. 



Sprats, to make them taste 

like anchovies, 123 
Spttnge cake, 239 
another, without 

batter, 839 
Squat-pie, 188 

Staffordshire dish of frying 
herb*, etc. 178$ with liver, 
SOT 

Stain*, to take any kind out 

of linen, 899 
stains caused by acidi, 

899 

. . . . , another way for fruit* 

■tains, 899 
. . . . , another, 899 

another way, 899 

. . . . , stain* of wine, fruit, 

4c. after they have been 

long in the linen, 899 
. . . . , many other stain*, 

899 

. . . . , to take them out of 
marble, 306. Iron stains, 
306 

Steaks, beef, 36 

, and oyster-sauce, 

3T 

, Staffordshire beef- 
steak*, 3T 
. . . . , Italian beef-steaks, 3T 
. . . . , sauce for, 115 
. . . . , beef-steak pie, 129 

, pudding, 145 

, baked, 

145 

Steel, to take rust out of, 307 

Stock, clear brown, for gravy- 
soup, or gravy, 98 

. . . , for brown or white fan 
soups,, 106 

Stone, Co extract oil from, 
306 

, chimney-pieces, to 

blacken the front* of, 306 

t ..... , stairs and hall*, to 
clean, 306 



Stoves, to take the black off 
the bright bar* of polished 
ones in a few minutes, 307 

, another way, 307 

Strawberries, to preserve them 
whole, 215 

, to preserve in 

wine, 815 

Stucco, excellent, which will 
adhere to woodwork, 897 

, maxon's washes for, 

298 

Stuffing, for pike, haddock, 
&c. 14 

. . . . , for sole* baked, 15 

for sole, cod, or turbot 

pie, 125 
. . . . , forcemeat for, 124 
Sturgeon, to dress fresh, 10 

, to roast, 10 

an excellent imita- 
tion of pickled, 1 1 
Sucking pig, to scald, 00 

, to roast, 60 

Suet, to preserve it a twelve- 
month, 208 
. . . . , pudding, 146 
. . . . , veal-tmet pudding, 146 
• . . . , dumplings, 151 
Suffolk dumplings, 151 
Sugar, good to be used la cu- 
ring meat*, 164 
. . . . , to clarify for sweet- 
meats, 208 

vinegar, 120 

Suppers, general remarks on. 
324 

. . . . , dish, a pretty one, 203 
Sweet Dishes, 185, etc. 
Sweetbreads, 56 

, roasted, 56 

, ragout, 50 

Sweetmeats, &c. 208 to 224 

, observations on, 

224 

to clarify sugar 

for, SOS 



IN 

Sweetmeat*, s very fiue crust 
for them, when required to 
be particularly nice, 150 

, b carmel cover 

Tot sweetmeat)), II'.'. 

, excellent sweet- 
meats far tarts, when fruit 
is plentiful, 222 

Sweet-pot, to (nuke, 295 

Sweets, rich |>uste for, 154 

Sweet patties, 162 

Sj/llabub, London, 201 

, Staffordshire, -202 

u very fine Somerset- 
shire one, 202 

....4., everlasting, or solid, 
202 

Syrup of cream, 268 

T. 

Table-beer, excellent, lo brew, 
Tansey, 186 

Tapioca jelly, for the sick, 279 

Tartlets, how to prepare bar- 
berries for, 209 

Tarts, iceing for them, 158 

pippin* 160 

, prune, 150 

, Mknge, 159, 160 

1 codlin, 159 

■ . i >t rbuhaTb, ] 60 

. . , • raspberry, with cream, 
140 

Tea cakes, 239 

, Benton tea cake.*, 

239 

another sort, as bis- 
cuits, 239 

, another sort, 239 

Teat, to dress, 92 
Tench, 12 
,. .., to choose, 2 
,. . to fry, (like trout,) 12 
. . . ., broth for the sick , 278 
Thotnback, II 
Tin covers, to clean, 308 



>EX. 349 

Toast, anchovy, two ways, 206 
Toast and water, for the sick, 

2bl 

Tomafa sauce, for hot or cold 

meats, 1 16 
Tongues and udder, to roust, 41 
....... to pickle for boiling, 

two ways, 41 

, *te wed, 42 

, an excellent way of 

doing them, to eat cold, 42 
Transparent pudding, 142 
- , » pickle for them, 

that will keep fur years, 68 
Trifle, an excellent one, 189 
... ., gooseberry or apple, 189 

cake, 189 
. . . . , a froth to set on trifle, 

which looks and eats well, 

195 
Tripe, 43 

, soused, 43 

Trout, %a fry, 18 
. . . . , to pot, (like lobsters,) 20 
. »-lft-Generoise, 12 
Tntjtes and morels, useful for 

soups and sauces, 97 
how to preserve 

them in the winter, 118 
Tunbridge cakes, 238 
Turbot, to chooie, 1 
...... , to keep, 5 

».,..., to boll, tt 

pi*>. 128 

Turkeys, to choose, 79 

, to boil, 81 

an excellent 

sauce for them boiled, 1 13 

....... to roast, 62 

....... pulled, 82 

, patties, 161 

i management of tur- 
keys in the poultry-yard, 274 

Turnip soap, 100 

pie, 155 

Turtles, little eggs for them, 
20)1 



3S0 



Turil*, force meal for tfi. m, 

U. 

(Wtfer and tonffun, to roawt, 41 

V. 

('rat, to choose, 24 

,, to keep, 44 

leg, 44 

....... knuckle, 44 

p shoulder, 4.'> 

..,„., neck, 46 

a-la-bralae, 4fl 

, breast of, W 

rolled brcuxt, 40 

to collnr n br«i»t, to cat 

cold, 46 
,, ii~la-dnub<.<, 47 



broth. TBfyDoarUhtfl £.21 l 

Vi;uKT A nLK«, 1UB to 118 

obtmrra tions ot 

dressing them, lts» 
to boil them 

green, 109; In hard wntet, 

169 

, bow to pre- 
serve for the wlntrr, 177 

soup, 1OT 

.another, 103 

pie, 134 

/ 'tint ton, to choow, SI 

to keep, SO 

, to droit, Sfl 

, ton rich, niH'k, «fcc. M 

stewed ■boulder, no 

, breast, 30 



..... Toll* of either cold meat , hashed, SO 



or fresh, 4T 
.... ., hnrrico of, 41 
a dunidm of cold, 48 

1 , 48 

, potted, 49 

to pot veal with ham, 48 
....... cuUebi Maintenon, 49 

........ another way, 4f> 

, other ways, 49 

, collopi, 40 



the old currant-Maw 
for, 117 

I>n»ty, cnut for, 134 

m 163 

to make ft pasty ofbeel 

i >r million, to cat as welt a* 
venison, 104 
Ferder, or milk-punch, 2SH 
f'~inegar, camp, 120 

., gooseberry, (SO 



., to dress cullop* quick, 4W raspberry, 230 

....... «c n Hops of cold veal, &tl , raspberry-vinegar wa- 

, frienndeau, 50 ter, 88ft 

t n cheaper, but equally , sbolot, 120 

good frlcandeau, 60 ... sugar, 120 

, frienndeau, another way, cucumber, 121 

51 , wine, 121 

and lemon vrhey, 288 
Vingaret, for cold fowl or 
meat. 120 

w. 



olives, M 

caktt, 8] 

, sausage*, ill 

, broth, D7 

grnvj) HI 

pie, 120 

, n rich one, 129 

. , and parsley pie, 120 

....... olke pie, 130 

suet pudding, 1 10 



Wafer*. 240 

fVainttnt, fine oak, to give i 

glosB to, 304 
H'atmtit, to pickle, H3 

, another wny, Ifti 



INDEX. 



35 J 



Wash-balls, to make, 295 
Washes, for stucco, 298 
Water cakes, 238 
gruel, (two ways of 

making,) 285 
souchy, 18 
.. barley, (two ways of 

making,) 28T 
. . . ., an excellent, to preserve 

the hair from falling off, 296 
Welsh pudding, 150 

, rabbit, 206 

Whey, 288 

white wine, 288 
. . . . , vinegar and lemon, 288 
White, to stain jellies, ices, 

&c. 201 
Whitings, to choose, 2 
, to dry, like haddocks, 

14 

Widgeon, to dress, 92 
Wild-fowl, to roast, 92 

sauce for, 113 

Windsor beans, fricasseed, 172 
Wine, remarks on English 

wines, 250 

, a rich and pleasant, 250 

.. .., raspberry, 251 

or currant, (two 

ways of making,) 251 
. . . ., black currant, 251 



Wine, ginger, excellent, (two 
ways of making,) 252 

, orange, 252 

, cowslip, 253 

. . . . , elder, 253 

, white elder, like Fron- 

tiniac, 253 

, clary, 254 

, raisin, 254 

, with cyder, 254 

, without cyder, 255 

, egg, for the sick, 281 

, to refine, 249 

. roll, 199 

. vinegar, 121 

. mulled, (two ways of 

making,) 283 
. .. , to preserve strawberries, 
215 

, white whey, for the sick, 

288 

Woodcocks, to dress, 93 
Woollen, to preserve from moth, 
300 

Yeast, to make, (two ways,) 
242 

dumplings, 151 
Yellow, to stain jellies, Sec. 
201 

Yorkshire cakes, 246 
puddings, 150 



W. J. Sears, 3, Ivy-lane, Newgate-street 



I 




STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 
STANFORD AUXILIARY LIBRARY 
STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004 
(415) 723-9201 
All books may be recalled after 7 days 

DATE DUE 




