Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



it J 




• • • • 



I37532Q 



.'A 




r(o%^^ 



& . 



y. 




/ • ■ ' < '■-■.- 



( ■' 



f ■ 



VALUABLE WORKS, 

PX7BLISHED AND FOR SALE BT 

No. 133 IVatblnf^n Sire<)t« 



Oliver's Physiology ; 
Caldwell on Physical Education ; 
Dr. Combe on Digestion ; 
" " on Mental Derangement ; 
" " on the Constitution of Man ; 
" " Moral Philosophy ; 
Hayward's Outlines of Human Physiology ; 
Spurzheim's Anatomy of the Brain ; 
" on Education ; 

" on Insanity, — with Appendix, by Dr. Brigham ; 

Dr. Brigham's Remarks on the Influence of Mental Cultiva- 
tion on Health ; 
Dr. Brigham on the Influence of Religion upon Health j 
Dr. Howe's Discourse on the Social Relations of Man. 

— ALSO, FOR SALE, — 

The Constitution of the American Physiological Society, to 
which is prefixed a Summary Explanation of the objects of 
the Society ; 

Dr. Alcott's Address before the Physiological Society, March 
7, 1837 ; 
Mr. Bird's Address, June 1, 1837 ; 

First Annual Report of the American Physiological Society, 
June, 1837; 
Dr. Bartlett's Lecture, January 30, 1838 ; 
Rev. A. G. Duncan's Lecture, February 7, 1838; 
Dr. Alcott's Young Wife ; 
Young Mother ; 
Young Housekeeper ; 
House I Live in ; 
Living on Small Means ; 
Graham's Treatise on Bread-Making; 
" Lectures to Young Men ; 

" Lecture on the Spasmodic Cholera, with an Ap-. 
pendix, containing several Testimonials, — Rules of the Gra- 
ham Boarding -House, &c. ; 

Also, will shortly be published, and for sale as above, GRA- 
HAM'S COMPLETE WORK on the Science of Human 
Life. 



a 


tt 


tt 


tt 


tt 


tt 


tt 


tt 



VEGETABLE DIET 



A3 SANCTIONED BY 



MEDICAL MEN, 



AND BY 



EXPERIENCE IN ALL AGES. 



BY 



WILLIAM A. ALCOTT, 

Author of the *< Young VVifo,'' tho " House I Live in," Sec. &c., and Ed- 
itor of the ^'Library of Ilealth/' and the "Annals of Education." 



BOSTON: 

MARSH, CAPEN & LYON. 

1838. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1838, by 

WiLUAM A. Aloott, 
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Biassachnsetts. 



boston: 

PBIIfTBD BT Wll. ▲. HALL AWV CO. 



PREFACE. 



The following volume embraces the testimo- 
ny, direct or indirect, of nearly one hundred 
individuals, — besides that of societies and com- 
munities — on the subject of vegetable diet. Most 
of this one hundred persons are, or were, per- 
sons of considerable distinction in society ; and more 
than FIFTY of them were either medical men, or 
such as have made physiology, hygiene, anatomy, 
pathology, medicine, or surgery a leading or favor- 
ite study. 

As I have written other works besides this — 
especially the " Young House-Keeper, " — which 
treat, more or less, of diet, it may possibly be ob- 
jected, that I sometimes repeat the same idea. But 
how is it to be avoided? In writing for various 
classes of the community, and presenting my 
views in various connexions and aspects, I deem it 
necessary to do so. Writers on theology, or educa- 
tion, or any other important topic, do the same — 



VI PREFACE. 

probably to a far greater extent than I have yet 
done. I repeat no idea for the sake of repeating 
it. Not a word is inserted but what seems to me 
necessary, in order that I may be intelligible. 
Moreover, like the preacher of the truth on many 
other subjects, it is not so much my object to pro- 
duce something new in every paragraph, as to ex- 
plain, illustrate, and enforce what is already known. 
It may also be thought that I make too many 
books. But, as I do not claim to be so much 
an originator of new things as an instrument for 
diflFusing the oW, it will not be expected that I 
should be twenty years on a volume, like Bish- 
op Butler. I have, however, been collecting my 
stock of materials for this and other works — pub- 
lished or unpublished — more than twenty-five 
years. Besides, it might be srfely and truly said 
that the study and reading and writing, in the pre- 
paration of this volume and the "Young House- 
Keeper," have consumed at least three of the best 
years of my life, at fourteen or fifteen hours a day. 
Several of my other works, as the " House I Live 
in," the "Young Mother," and the "Young Wife," 
have also been the fruit of years of toil and inves- 
tigation and observation, of which those who think 
only of the labor of merely writing them out, know 
nothing. Even the " Mother in her Family," — at 



PREFACE. Vll 

least some parts of it — though in general a lighter 
work, has been the result of much care and labor. 
The circumstance of publishing several books at the 
same, or nearfy the same time, has nothing to do 
with their preparation. 

When I commenced putting together the mate- 
rials of this little treatise on diet, — a year and a 
half ago, — it was my intention simply to show the 
SAFETY of a vegetable and fruit diet, both for 
those who are afflicted with many forms of chro- 
nic disease, and for the healthy. But I soon be- 
came convinced that I ought to go farther, and 
prove Its SUPERIORITY over every other. This 
I have attempted to do — with what success, the 
reader must and will judge for himself. 

I have said, it was not my original intention 
to prove a vegetable and fruit diet to be any- 
thing more than safe. But I wish not to be un- 
derstood as entertaining, even at that time, any 
doubts in regard to the superiority of such a diet : 
the only questions with me were, Whether the pub- 
lic mind was ready to hejr and weigh the proofs, 
and Whether this volume was the place in which 
to present them. Both these questions, however, 
as I went on, were settled, in the affirmative. I 
believed — and still believe — that the public mind, 
in this country, is prepared for the free discussion of 



via PREFACE. 

all topics -^ provided they are discussed candidly — 
which have a manifest bearing on the well-being of 
man ; and I have governed myself accordingly. 

An apology may be necessary for retaining, 
unexplained, a few medical terms. But I did not 
feel at liberty to change them, in the correspond- 
ence of Dr. North, for more popular language ; 
and, having retained them thus far, it did not seem 
desirable to explain them elsewhere. Nor was I 
willing to deface the pages of the work with explan- 
atory notes. The fiict is, the technical terms 
alluded to, are, after all, very few in number, 
and may be generally understood by the con- 
nexion in which they appear. 

Boston, June, 1838. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

ORIGIN OF THIS WORK. Page 

Experience of the Author, and his Studies. Pamphlet in 
1832. Prize-duestion of the Boylston Medical Committee. 
Collection of Materials for an Essay.. Dr. North. His 
Letter and Cluestions. Results. ----, 1 

CHAPTER II. 

LETTERS TO DR. NORTH. • 

Letter of Dr. Parmly. Dr. W. A. Alcott. Dr. D. S. Wright. 
Dr. H. N. Preston. Dr. H. A. Barrows. Dr. Caleb Ban- 
nister. Dr. L3rman Terry. Dr. J. M. B. Harden. Joseph 
Ricketson, Esq. Joseph Congdon, Esq. George W. Ba- 
ker, Esq. John Howland, Jr., Esq. Dr.Wm. H. Webster. 
Josiah Bennet, Esq. Wm. Vincent, Esq. Dr. George H. 
Perry. Dr. L. W. Sherman. 10 

CHAPTER III. 

REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING LETTERS. 

Correspondence. The " prescribed course of regimen." How 
many victims to it 7 Not one. Case of Dr. Harden consid- 
ered. Case of Dr. Preston. Views of Drs. Clark, Cheyne, 
and Lamb, on the treatment of Scrofula. No reports of 
injury from the prescribed system. Case of Dr. Bannister. 
Singular testimony of Dr. Wright Vegetable food for la- 



X CONTENTS. 

Page 
borers. Testimony, on the whole, much more favorable to 
the vegetable system tham could reasonably have been ex- 
pected, in the circumstances. *...- 49 

CHAPTER IV. 

ADDitlONAL INTELLIGENCE. 

Letter, from Dr. H. A. Barrows. Dr. J. M. B. Harden. Dr. 
Joshua Porter. Dr. N. J. Knight. Dr. Lester Keep. Sec- 
ond letter from Dr. Keep. Dr. Henry H. Brown. Dr. 
Franklin Knox. From a Physician. Additional statements 
by the Author. ---«.-----------. 60 

CHAPTER V. 

TESTIMONY OF OTHER MEDICAL MEN, BOTH OP ANCIENT AND 

MODERN TIMES. 

General Remarks. Testimony of Dr. Cheyne. Dr. Geoffroy. 
Vauquelin and Percy. Dr. Pemberlon. Sir John Sinclair. 
Dr. James. Dr. Cranstoun. Dr. Taylor. Drs. Hufeland 
and Abernelhy. Sir Gilbert Blane. Dr. Gregory. Dr. 
Cullen. Dr. Rush. Dr. Lamb. Prof. Lawrence. Dr. 
Salgues. Author of " Sure Methods." Baron Cuvier. Dr. 
Luther V. Bell. Dr. Buchan. Dr Whitlaw. Dr. Clark. 
Prof. Mussey. Drs. Bell and Condie. Dr. J. V. C. Smith. 
Mr. Graham. Dr. J. M. Andrews, Jr. Dr. Sweetser. Dr. 
Pierson. Physician in New York. Females' Encyclopedia. 
Dr. Van Cooth. Dr. Beaumont. Sir Everard Home. - - 88 

CHAPTER VL 

TESTIMONY OF PHILOSOPHERS AND OTHER EMINENT MEN. 

General Remarks. Testimony of Plautus. Plutarch. Por- 
phyry. Lord Bacon. Sir Wm. Temple, Cicero. Cyrus 
the Great. Prof. Hitchcock. Lord Kaims. Dr. Thomas 
Dick. Prof. Bush. Thomas Shillitoe. Alexander Pope. 
Sir Richard Phillips. Sir Isaac Newton. The Abbe GJal- 
lani. Homer. Dr. Franklin. Mr. Newton. Prof. Pergu- 



C O^ TENTS. XI 

Pftf« 

son. Howard the Philanthropist. Gen. Elliot. Encyclo- 
pedia Americana. Thomas Bell, of London. Linnaeus, 
the Naturalist. Shelly, the Poet. 172 

CHAPTER VIL 

SOCIETIES AND COMMUNITIES ON THE VEGETABLE SYSTEM. 

The Pythagoreans. The Essenes. The Bramins. Society 
of Bible Christians. Orphan Asylum of Albany. School 
in Germany. American Physiological. Society. - - - 210 

CHAPTER VHL 

VEGETABLE DIET DEFENDED. 

General Remarks on the Nature of the Argument. 1. The 
Anatomical Argument. 2. The Phjrsiological Argument. 
3. The Medical Argument. 4. The Political Argument 
5. The Economical Argument. 6. The Argument from 
Experience. 7. The Moral Argument. — Conclusion. - - 22t 



Errata.— On page 29, 4th line, for ^^btmbago,** read lumbago. 
On page 239, 8th line, for "power of^ read waiU, of power in. 



VEGETABLE DIET. 



CHAPTER I. 

ORIGIN OP THIS WORK. 

Experience of the Author, and his studies. Pamphlet in 183d; 
Prize-Cluestion of the Boylston Medical Committee. Collectioii 
of Materials for an Essay. Dr. Npflh. His Letter and Ques- 
tions. Results. 

Twelve years ago, the present season, I was in 
the first stage of tuberculous consumption, and evi- 
dently advancing rapidly to the second. The most 
judicious physicians were consulted, and their advice 
' at length followed. I commenced the practice of 
medicine, travelling chiefly on horse-back; and, 
though unable to do but little at first, I soon gain- 
ed strength enough to perform a moderate business, 
and. to combine with it a little gardening and farm^ 
ing. At the time, or " nearly at the time, of com- 
mencing the practice of miedicine, I laid aside my 
feather bed, and slept on 'straw ; and in December, 
of the same year, I abandoned spirits, and most 
kinds of stimulating food. It was not, however, 

1 



2 VEGETABLE DIET. 

until eight years ago, the present season, that I 
abandoned all drinks but water, and all flesh, fish, 
and other highly stimulating and concentrated ali- 
ments, and Confined myself to a diet o£ milk and 
vegetables. 

In the mean time, the duties of my profession, 
and the nature of my studies led me to prosecute, 
nciore diligently than ever, a subject which I had 
been studying, more or less, from my very child- 
hood — the laws of Human Health. Among other 
things, I collected factsf on this subject from books 
which came in my way ; so that when I came to 
Boston, in January, 1832, I had already obtained, 
from various writers, on Materia Medica, phjrsiol- 
ogy, disease, and dietetics, quite a large bundle. 
The results of my reflections on these, and of my 
own observation and experience, were, in part— but 
in part only — developed in July, of the same year, in 
an anonymous pamphlet, entitled << Rational View 
• of the. Spasmodic Cholera ;" publiiShed by Messrs. 
Clapp & Hull, of this city. 

In the summer of 1833, the Boylston Medical 
Committee of Harvard University ofiered a prize 
of fifty dollars, or a gold medal of that value, to the 
author of the best dissertation on the following ques- 
tion : "What diet fcan be selected which will ensure 
the greatest health and strength to the laborer in 
the climate of New England — quality and quantity, 
and the tiine and manner of taking itj to be consid- 
ered?" 

At first, I had some thoughts of attempting an 
essay on the subject ; for it seemed to rne an impor- 



DR. north's circular. 



tant one. Circumstances, however, did not permit 
me to prosecute the undertaking ; though I was ex- 
cited by the q[uestion of the ]3oylston Medical Comr 
mittee to renewed efforts to increase my stock of in- 
formation and of facts'. ' . - 

In 1834, I accidentally learned that Dr. Milo . L. 
North, a distinguished practitioner of medicine 
in Hartford, Connecticut'^ was pursuing a course 
of . inquiry not unlike my own, and collecting 
facts and materials for a similar purpose. In cor- 
respondence with Dr. North, a proposition was 
made to unite our stoek of materials ; but nothing 
for the present was actually done. However, I 
agreed to furnish Dr. North with a statement of my 
own experience, and such other important facts as 
came within the range of my owo observations; 
and a statement of my experience was subsequent- 
ly entrusted to his care, as will be seen in its place, 
in the body of this work. 

In February, 1835, Dr. North, in the prosecu- 
tioii of his efforts, addressed the following circu- 
lar, or LETTER and auESTroKs, to the editor of 
the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, which, 
were accordingly inserted in a subsequent num- 
ber of that work. They were also puMshedin 
the American Journal of Medical Science, of Phila- 
delphia, and copied into numerous papers, so that 
they were. pretty generally circulated throughout 
our country. 

"To the Editor of the Boston Medical and Surgical Joomal. 

" Sir, — Reports not unfrequently reiu^h us of 
certain individuals who have fallen victims to a 



4 VEOETABLB DIET. 

prescribed course of regimen. Those persons are 
said, by gentlemen who are entitled to the fullest 
confidence, to have pertinaciously .foRowed the 
course, till they reached a point of reduction from 
which there was no recovery. If these are facts, 
they ought to be collected and published. And I 
beg leave, through your Journal, to request my 
medical brethren, if they have been called to. advise 
in such cases, that they will ,have the kindness to 
answer, briefly, the following interrogatories, by 
mail, as early as convenient. 

"Should the sutistance of their replies ever be 
embodied in a small volume, they will not only 
receive a copy and the thanks of the author, but 
will have the pleasure to know they are assisting 
in the settlement of a question of great interest to 
the country. If it should appear probable that 
their patient was laboring -tinder a decline at the 
commencement of the change of diet, this ought, 
in candor, to be. fully disclosed. 

" It will be perceived, by the tenor of the ques- 
tions, that they are designed to embrace not only 
unfortunate results of a change of diet, but such as are 
favorable. There are, in our community, considera- 
ble numbers who have entirely excluded animal food 
from their diet. It is exceedingly desirable that 
the results of such experiments, so diflScuIt to be 
found in this land of plenty, should be ascertained 
and thrown before the profession and the com- 
munity. Will physicians, then, have the kindness, 
if they know of any persons in their vicinity who 
have excluded animal food from their diet for *a 
year or over,, to lend them this number of the 



DR. north's circular. 5 

Journal, and ask them to forward » to MHo L. 
North, Hartford, Connecticut, as tiarly as conven- 
ient,- the result of this change of diet on their 
health and constitution, in accordance with the 
following inquiries? 

1. "Was your bodily strength either increased, 
or diminished by excluding animal food from your^ 
diet? 

2. " Were the anrmal sensations, connected with 
the process of digestion, more — or less agreeable? 
' 3. • " Was the mind clearer : aild could it cOn- 

tinue a laborious investigation longer than when 
you subsisted on mixed diet? 

4. " What constitutional infirnuties were aggra- 
vated or removed? 

6. "Had you fewer colds or other febrile at- 
tacks — or the reverse ? 

6. " What length of time, the trial ? 

7. " Was the change to a vegetable diet, in 
your case, .preceded by the use of an uncommon 
proportion of animal food, or of high seasoning, 
or of stimulants ? 

8. " Was' this change accompanied by a sub- 
stitution of cold water for tea and coffee, during 
the experiment? 

9. " Is a vegetable diet more — or less aperient 
than mixed? 

10. "Do you believe, from your experience, 
that the health of either laborers or students would 
be promoted by the exclusion of animal food from 
their diet? 

11. "Have you selected, from your own ob- 

1* 



6 VEOETABCE DIET. 

servation, any articles in the vegetable kingdom, 
as particularly Hfealthy, or otherwise? . 

" N. B. — Short answers to these inquiries are all 

that is necessary*; anci as a copy of the latter is 

retained by the writer, it will be sufficient to refer 

to them numerically, without the trouble of tran- 

ascribing each question. 

" Hartford, February 25, 1835." 

This" circular, or letter, drew forth numerous 
replies from various partis of the United StateSj 
and chiefly from medical men. In the mean time, 
the prize of the Boylston Medical Committee was 
awarded to Luther V. Bell, M. D. of Derry, New 
Hampshire, and was published in the Boston Med- 
ical and Surgical Journal, and elsewhere, and read 
with considerable interest. 

In the year 1836, while many were waiting, 
some with a degree of impatience, to hear. from 
Dr. North, his health s6 far failed him; that he 
concluded to relinquish, for the present, his 'inqui- 
ries ; and, at his particular request, I consented 
to the insertion of the following card in the Bos- 
ton Medical and Surgical Journal : 

" Dr. North, of Hartford, Connecticut, tenders 
his grateful acknowledgments to the numerous 
individuals, who were so kind as to forward to 
him a statement of the effects of vegetable diet on 
their own persons,- in reply to some specific in- 
quiries inserted in the Boston Medical and Surgical 
Journal of March 11, 1835, and in the Philadelphia 



DR.* north's .card. 7* 

* 

Journal of the same year. Although many months 
elapsed before the answers were tJl ' received, yet . 
the writer is fully aware that these communica- 
tions ought to have been published before this. 
His * apology is a prolonged state of ill health, 
which has now become so serious as to threaten 
to drive him to a southern climate for the winter. -^ 
In this exigency, he has solicited Dr. W. A. Alcott, 
of Boston, to receive • the papers and give them 
to the public as soon as his numerous engage- 
ments, will permit. This arrangement will doubt- 
less be fully isatisfactoty, both to the writers of 
the communications and to the public. 

." Hartford, November 4, 1836." . » . 

Various circumstances, beyond my control, have 
united to defer the publication of the contemplated 
work to the present time. It is- hoped, however, 
that nothing will be lost by delay. It has given 
* farther opportunity for reflection, .as well as for 
observation and experiment; and if the work is 
to be of any value at all to the community, it will 
owe much of that value to the fact that what the 
public may be diisposed to regard as unnecessary, has 
afforded another year for investigation. Not that any 
new discoveries have been made, within that time, 
but I have been, at least, enabled to verify and 
confirm. my former conclusions, and to review, 
more carefully than ever, the whole argument. It 
is hoped that the work will at least Serve as a 
pioneer to a naore extensive as well as more sci- 
entific volume, by dome' individual who is better 
able to do the subject justice; 



•8 VBOETABLE DI£T. 

It will be my .object to present the facts and 
arguments of the following volume, not in a dis- 
torted or one-sided manner, but according to truth. 
I have no private interests to subserve, which 
would lead me to ' suppress, . or falsely color, or 
exaggerate. If vegetable food is not preferable to 
animal; I certainly do not wish to have it so 
regarded. This profession of a sincere desire to 
know and teach the (futh may be an apology for 
placing the letters in the order in which they 
appear — which certainly is such as to give no 
unfair advantages to those who believe ur the 
superiority • of the vegetable system — and for the 
faithfulness with which their whole contents, 
whether favoring one side or other of the argu- 
ment; have been transcribed. 

The title of the work requires a word of ex- 
planation. It is . not intended to convey an im- 
pression that there are no facts here but what 
rest on medical authority; but rather, that the 
work originated with the medical profession, and' 
contains, for the most part, testimony which is 
exclusively medical — either given by medical men, 
or under their sanction. In fact, though designed 
chiefly for popular reading, it is properly a medical 
work; and will probably stand or fall, according 
to the sentence of approbation or disapprobation 
which shall be pronounced by the medical profes- 
sion. 

The following chapter will contain the letters 
addressed to Dr.. North. They are inserted, with 
a flingle exception, in the precise order of. their 



REMARKSt 



date. The first, however, does not appear to have 
been elicited by Dr. North's circular; but rather 
by a request in some previous letter. It will be 
observed that several of the letters include more 
than one ease or experiment; and a few of them 
many. Thus the whole series embraces, at the 
least calculation, from thirty to forty experiments. 
The replies of nearly every individual are num- 
bered to correspond with the questions, as sug- 
gested by Dr. Noirth; so that, if tljere should 
remain a doubt, in any case, in regard to the 
precise point referred to by the writer of the tetter, 
the reader has only to tkirn to the circular in the 
present chapter, and read the questions there, which 
correspond to the number of the doubtful one. 
Thus, for example, the various replies marked 6^ 
refer to the length or duration of the. experiment' 
or experiments which had been made ; and those 
marked 9, to the aperient effects of a diet e^clu- 
givcly vegetable. And so of all the rest, • • * 



CHAPTER II. 



LETTERS TO DR. NORT5. 

Letter of Pr. Parmly. Dr. W. A. Alcott. Dr. D. S. Wright. 
Dr. H. N. Preston. Dr. H. A. Barrows. Dr. Caleb Bannister. 
Dr. Lyman Terry. Dr. J. M. B. Harden. Jo^ph Ricketson, 
Esq. Joseph Congdon, Esq. George -W. Baker, Esq. John 
Howland, Jr., Esq. Dr. Wm. H. Webster. Josiah Bennet, 
Esq. Wm. Vincent, Esq. Dr. *Geo. H. Perry. * Dr. L. W. 
Sherman. 



LETTER I. FROM DR. PARMLT, DENTIST. 

To Dr. North. 

My Dear Sir, — For two years past, I have ab- 
stained from the use of all the diffusible stimulantS| 
iismg no animal food, either flesh, fish or fowl ; 
nor any alcoholic or vinous spirits ; na form of 
ale, beer or porter; no cider, tea, or coffee;^ but 
using milk and water as my only liquid aliment, 
and feeding sparingly, or rather, moderately, upon 
farinaceous food, vegetables and fruit, seasoned 
with unmelted butter, slightly boiled eggs, and 
sugar or molasses; with no condiment but com- 
mon salt. 

I adopted this regimen in company with several 
friends, male and female, some of whom . had been 
afflicted either with dyspepsia or with some oth^ 



•DR. PARMLY. 11 

chronic malady. In every instance, within the 
circle of my acquaintance, the symptoms orf. disease 
disappeared before this system of diet ; and I have 
reason to believe that the disease itself was wholly 
or in part eradicated. ' 

In answer to your inquiry, whether I ascribe 
the cure, in the cases alleged, to the abstinence from 
animal food or from stimulating drinks, or from 
both, I cannot but give it as my confident opinion 
that the result is to be attributed to a general aban- 
donment .of the diffusive stimidi, under every shape 
and forni. 

An increase of flesh was one of the earliest effects 
of the anti-stimulating regimen, in those cures in 
which the system was in low condition. . The 
animal spirits becanoe more cheerful, buoyant,. and 
uniformly pleasurable. Mental and bodily labor 
was endured with much less fatigue, and both 
intellectual and corpo^peal exertion was more vig- 
orous and eflOloient. 

In the language of Addison, this isy^tem of ultra- 
temperance has had the happy effect. of '< filling 
the mind with inward joy, and spreading delight 
through all its faculties." 

But, although I^ have thus made the experiment 
of abstaining, wholly froni the use of liquid and 
solid stimulants, and from every form of animal 
food, I am not fully convinced that it should be 
deemed improper, on any account, to use. the more 
slightly stimulating forms of animal food. Perhaps 
fish and fowl, with the exception of ducks and 
geese, turtle and * lobster, may be taken without 



12 VEGETABLE DIET. 

• • • 

detriment, in moderate quantities. Apd I regktd 
good mptton as being the lightest, and, at the same 
time, the most nutritious of all meats, and as pro- 
ducing less inconvenience than any other kind, 
where the energies of the stomach are enfeeUed. 
And yet there are unquestionably many constitu- 
tions which would be benefited by living, as I 
and others have done, on purely vegetable diet and 
ripe fruits. 

In relation to many of the grosser kinds of ani- 
mal food, all alcoholic spirits, all distilled. and fer- 
mented liquors, tea and coffee, opium and tobacco,— 
I feel confident in pronouncing them not only use- 
less, but noxious to the animal machine. 

Yours, &c. Eleazar Parmlt. 

No. 11» Park Place, New York, Januaiy 31, 1835. 



LETTER II.— PROM DR. W. A. ALCOTT. 

Boston, December 19, 1834. 

Dear Sir, — I received your communication, and 
hasten to reply to as many of your inquiries as I 
can; Allow me to take them up in the very order 
in which you have presented them. 

Answer to Question 1. I was bred to -a very 
active life, from my isarliest childhood. .This active 
course was continued till about ' the time of my 
leaving off the use of flesh and fish; since which 
period my habits have, unfortunately, been more 
Mdentary. I think- my muscular strength is some- 



1>R. ALCOTT. 13 

what less now than: it was before I omitted flesh 
meat, but in what proportion I am unable to say ;. 
for indeed it varies greatly. When more exercise 
IS used, my strength increases — sometimes almost 
immediately ; . when . less exercise is used, my 
strength again diminiiShes, but not so rapidly. 
These last circumstances indicate a more direct 
connexion between my loss of muscular strength 
and my neglect of exercise than between the former 
and my food. 

2. Rather more agreeable ; unless I use too 
large a quantity of food ; to which however I am 
rather more inclined than formerly, as my appetite 
is keener, and food relishes far better. A sedentary 
life, moreover, a? I am well satisfied, tends to bring 
my moral powers into subjection Co the physical. 

3. My mind has been cledrer, since I com- 
menced the experiment to which you allude, than 
before ; but I doubt whether I can better endure a 
'< laborious investigation." A little rest or exercise,- 
perhaps less than formerly, restores vigor. I am 
sometimes tempted to. break my day into ttoo^ by 
sleeping at noon. But I am not so apt to be cloyed 
with study, or reflection, as formerly. 

4. Several. 1. An eruptive complaint, some- 
times, at one period of my life, very severe. 2. 
Irritation of the lungs ; probably, indeed most cer- 
tainly, incipient phthisis. 3. Rheumatic attacks, 
though they had never been very severe. . 

The eruptive disease, however, and the rheumat- 
ic attacks, are hot wholly removed; but they are 
greatly diminished. The irritation at the lungs 

2 



14 YBGSTABLK DIET. 

hafl nearly left me. This is the more remarkable 
from the Act that I have been, during ahnost the 
whole period of my experiment, in or about Boston. 
I was formerly somewhat subject to palpitations'; 
these. are now less frequent. I am also less exposed 
to epidemics. Formerly 'I had nearly all that 
appeared ; now I have very few. 
. You will observe that I merely state the facts, 
without affirming, positively, that my change of 
diet has been tbe cause, thoug^h 1 am quite of 
opinion that this has not been without its influence. 
Mental quiet and a total abstinence from all driiiks 
but water, may also have had much influence, a^ 
well as. numerous other causes. 

6. Very few colds. Last winter I had a violent 
inflammation of the ear, which was attended with 
some fever ; but abstinence and emollient applica- 
tions soon restored me. In July last, I had a 
severe attack of diarrhoea unattended with much 
fever, which I attributed to drinking too much 
watec impregnated with earthy salts, and to which 
I had been unaccustomed.' When I have a cold, of 
late, it aflects, principally, the nasal membrane ; 
and, if I practise abstinence, soon disappears. In 
this respect, more than in any other, I am confident 
that since I commenced the use of a vegetable diet 
I have been a very great gainer. 

6. The experiment was fully begun four years 
ago last summer ; though I had been making great 
changes in my phjrsical habits for four years before. 
For. about three years, I used neither flesh nor fish, 
nor even eggs more than two or three times a 



DR. ALCOTT. If 

year. The only animal food I used was milk ; mid 
for some long periods, not even that Bdt at the 
end of three years I ate a very small quantity of 
flesh meat once a day, for three or four weeks, and 
then laid it aside. This was in the time of the 
cholera. The only effect 1 perceived from its use 
was a slight increase .of peristaltic action. In 
March last, I used a little dried fish once or twke 
a day, for a few days ; but with no peculiar effects. 
After my attack c^ diarrhoea, in July last, i used a 
little flesh several times ; but for some months past ' 
I have laid it aside entirely ; with no intention of 
resuming it. Nothing peculiar. was observed, as 
its effects, during the last autumn. 

7. I never used a large proportion of iminial 
ibod, except milk, since I was a child ^ but I 
have been in the habit, at various periods of my life, 
of drinkipg considerable cider. For some months 
before I laid aside flesh and fish, I had been 
accustomed to the use of more animal food than 
usual, but less cider ; though for a part of the 
time, I made up the deficiency of cider with ate . 
and coffee. For several months previous to the 
beginning of the experiment, I had drank nothing 
but water. 

'8. Rather less. But here, again, I fear I am in 
danger of ' attributing to one cause what is the 
effect of another. My n^lect of exercise may be 
more in fault, than the rice and bread and milk 
which I use. Still I .must think that vegetable 
food is, in my own case, i^s aperient than animal. 

. 9. In regard to studentS| my lepLy is, Yes, most 



16 VEGETABLE DIET. 

certainly. So I think in regard to laborers, were 
they trained to it. But how far early habits may 
create a demand for the continuance of animal 
food through hfe, I am quite at a loss for. an opin- 
ion. Were I a hard laborer, I. should use no 
animal food. . When I travel on foot forty or fifty 
miles a day, I use vegetable food, and in less than 
the usual quantities. This I used to do before I 
commenced fny experiment. 

10. I use bread made of unbolted wheat meal, 
in moderate quantity, when I can get it ;• plain 
Indian cakes, once a day ; milk once a day ; rice, 
once a day. My plan is;to use as few things- as 
possible at the i^ame meal, but to have considerable 
variety at different meals. I use no new bread or 
pastry, no cheese, and but little butter ; and very 
little fruit, except apples in moderate quantity. 

11. . The answer to this question^ though I think 
it would be important and interesting, and many 
other particulars, I must defer for the present. 
The experiments of Pr. F., a young man in this 
.neighborhood, and of several other individuals 
would, I know, be in point; but I have ndt, at my 
command, the time neceissary to present them. 



LETTER lit. FROM DR. D. S. WRIGHT. 

. . . Whitehall, Washington Ca, N. Y., March 17, 1835. 

Dear Sir^ — I noticed h, communication from 
ybVL in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal 



DR. waiaHT. If 

6f the 5th instant, in which yon signify a wish to 
collect facts in relation to the effects of a vegetabis 
diet upon the human systenii &c. I submit, for 
your consideration, my own experience ; premising, 
however, thai i aiQ a practising physician in this 
place — am thirty-three years old — of.a sanguinei 
bilious temperament — have from youth up usually 
enjoyed good health — am not generally subject 
to fevers, &c. 

. I made a radical change in my diet three years 
ago this present month, from a mixed course of 
animal and vegetable food, to a strictly vegetable 
diet, on which I subsisted pretty uniformly for the 
most part of one year. I renewed it again about 
ten months ago. 

My reasons for adopting it were : 1. I had ex- 
perienced the beneficial effects of it for several 
years before, during the warm weather, in obviating 
a dull cephalalgic pain, and oppression in the epi- 
gastrium. 2dly, I had recently left the salubrious 
atmosphere of the mountains in Essex, county in 
this state, for this place of micsquitoes and mitis^ 
mata. 3dly and prominently, I had frequent ex- 
posures to the variolous infection, and I had a 
dreadful apprehension that I might have an attack 
of the varioloid, as at that time I had never exper- 
imentally tried the protective powers of the vaccine 
virus, and had too little confidence in those who 
recommended its prophylactic powers. The results 
I submit you, in reply to your interrogatories. 

1. I think each time I tried living on vege- 
table food exclusively, that for the first month I 



18 ySOETABLE DIET, 

could not endure fatigue as well. Afterwards I 

could. 

. 2# The digestive organs were always loore 

agreeably exeited. 

3. The mind uniformly clearer,* aiid could en- 
dure laborious investigations longer, and with less 
effort. 

4. I am constitutionally healthy and robust. 

5. I believe I have more colds, principally seated 
on the mucous membranes of the lungs, fauces and 
cavities of the head. (I do not, however, attribute 
it to diet.) 

6. The first trial was one year. I am now ten 
months on the same plan, and shall continue it. 

7. I never used a large quantity of animal food 
or stimulants, of any description. 

8. I have for several years used tea and coifee 
asually once a day — believe them healthy. 

9. Vegetable diet is less aperient than a mixed 
diet, if we except Indian Com. . 

10. I do not think that common laborers, in 
health, could do as well without animal food; but 
I think students might. 

11. I have selected potatoes, when baked or 
roasted, and all articles of food usually prepared 
firom Indian meal, as thennost healthy articles on 
which I subsist ; particularly the latter, whose ape- 
rient and nutritive qualities render it, in my estima- 
tion, an invaluable article for common use. 

Yours, &c. 

D. S. Wright. 



■ _ 

DR: PRESTON. 19 



LETTER IV. — FROM DR. H. N. PRESTON. . 

Plymoath, Mass., March 26, 1835.- 

Dear Sir, — When I observed your questions in 
the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, of the 11th 
of March, I determined to give you personal ex- 
perience, in reply to your valuable queries. . 

In the spring of 1832, while engaged in more 
than usual professional labor, I began to suffer from 
indigestion, which gradually increased, unabatedby 
any medicinal or dietetic course, .untill was reduced 
to the very confines of the grave. The disease be- 
came complicated, for a time, with chronic bronchitis. 
I would reipark, that, at the time of my commencing 
a severe course of diet, I was able to attend to my 
practice daily. 

In answer to your inquiries, I would say to the 
1st, — very much diminished, and rapidly. 

.2. Rather less, distinct local uneasiness — less 
disposition to drowsiness ; but decidedly more trou- 
bled with cardialgia, and eructations. 

3. . I think not. 
' 4. My disease was decidedly increased; as 
cough, headache, and emaciation ; and being of a 
scrofulous diathesis, was lessening my prospect of 
eventual recovery. 

5. My febrile attacks increased with my increas- 
ed debility. 

6. Almost four months ; when I bectime convinc- 
ed death would be the result, unless I altered my 
course. 



20 TBOSTABLS DIET* 

7. . I bad taken animal food moderately, monir 
ing and noon — very little high seasoning — no 
stimulants, except tea and coffee. The latter was my 
favorite beverage; and I usually drank two cups 
with my break&st and dinner, and black tea. with 
my supper. 

8. I drank but one cup of weak coffee with 
my breakfast, hone with dinner, and generally a 
cup of milk and water with supper. 

9. With me much less aperient ; indeed cos- 
tiveness became a very serious and distressing 
accompaniment. 

' 10. From somewhat extensive observation, for 
the last seven years, I should say, of laborers nev- 
er ; students seldom. 

. 11. Among dispeptics, potatoes nearly boiled, 
then mashed together, rolled into balls, and .laid 
over hot coals, until a second time cooked^ as easy 
as any vegetable. If any of the luxuries of the ta- 
ble have been noticed as particularly injurious, it 
has been cranberries, prepared in any form, as stew- 
ed in sauce, tarts, pies, etc. 

Crude as these answers are, they are at your ser- 
vice ; and I am prompted to give them from th'e 
fact, that very few persons, I presume, have been so 
far reduced as myself, with dispepsia and its con- 
comitants. In fact, I was pronounced, by some of 
the most scientific physicians of Boston, as past all 
prospect of cure, or even much relief, from medi- 
cine, diet, or regimen. My attention has naturally 
been turned with anxious solicitude to the subject 
of diet, in all its forms. Since my unexpected re* 



DR. BARROWS. 21 

storatioD to health, my opportunities for observatioQ 
among dispeptics have been much enlar|[ed; and 
I most unhesitatingly say, that my success is .much 
more encouraging, in the management of such ca- 
ses, since pursuing a more liberal diet, than before. 
Plain animal diet, avoiding condiments and tea, 
using mucilaginous driiik, as the Irish Moss, is pref- 
erable to " absolute diet," — cases of decided chronic 
gastritis excepted. • • 

Yours, &c. H. N. Preston, 



LETTER V. FROM DR. H. A. BARROWS. 

Phillips, Somerset Co., Me., April 28, 1835. 

Dear Sir,— -I have a .brother-in-law, who owes 
his life to abstinence from animal food, and strict 
adherence to the simplest vegetable diet. My. own 
eicistence is prolonged, only (according to* human 
probabilities) by entire abstinence from flesh-meat of 
every description, and feeding principally upon the 
coarsest farinacea.* 

Numberless other instai\ces have come under my 
observation within the last three years, in which a 
strict adherence to a simple vegetable diet has done 
for the wretched invalids what the best medical' 
treatment had utterly failed to do; and in no one 
instance have I known permanently injurious re- 
sults, to .follow from this course, but in many in- 
stances have had to lament the want of firmness and. 
decision^ and a gradual return to the ^^ flesh-pots of 
Egypt:^ . 



22 VEGBTABLE DIET. 

With these views, I very cheerfully comply With 
your general invitation, on page 77, volume 12, of 
the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. The an- 
swers to your interrogatories will apply to the case 
first jreferred to, to my own case, and to nearly ev- 
ery one which has occurred within my notice. 

1. Increased, Uniformly ; and in nearly every in- 
stance, without even the usual debility consequent 
updn withdrawing the stifnulus of animal food. 

2. More agreeable in every instance. 

3. Affirmative, in toto. 

4. None aggravated, except flatulence in one or 
two instances. All the horrid train of dispeptic 
symptoms uniformly mitigated, and obstinate con- 
stipation removed. 

5. Fewer colds and febrile attacks. 

6. Three years, with.my brother ; with myself, 
eighteen months partially, and three months whol- 
ly ; the others, from one to six months. 

7. Negative. 

8. Cold water — my brother and myself ; others, 
hot and cold water alternately. 

9. More aperient, — no exceptions. 

10. I believe the health of students would uni- 
formly be promoted — and the days of the laborer, 
to say the least, would be lengthened. 

'. 11. I have; and that is, simple bread mad^ of 
wheat meal, ground in corn-stones, and mi3;ed up 
precisely as it comes from the mill — with the sub- 
stitution of fine flour when the bowels become too 
active. Yours, (fee. 

Horace A. Barrows^ 



DR. BANNI8TKR. 23 



LETTER VI. — FROM DR. CALEB BANNISTER. 

Phelps, N. Y., May 4, 1835. 

Sir, — My age is fifty-three. My ancestors had 
all melted away with hereditary consumption. At 
the age' of twenty, I Jbegan to be afflicted with pain 
in difiere.nt parts of the thorax, and other premoni- 
tory symptoms of phthisis pulmonalis. Soon after 
this, my mother and eldest sister di^ with the dis- 
ease. For mysdf, having a severe attack of ague 
and fever|.all my consumptive symptom^ became 
greatly aggravated; the pain was shifting — some- 
times betyyeen the shoulders, sometimes in the side, 
or breast, <fec. System extremely irritable, pulse 
hard, and easily excited, from about ninety to one 
hundred and fifty, by the stimulus of a very small 
quantity of fo'od ; and, to. be short, I was given up, 
on all hands, as lost. 

From reading "Rush '^ I was induced to try a 
milk diet, and succeeded in regaining my health; so 
that for twenty-four years I have be;ep entirely iiee 
from any liymptom of phthisis ; and although sub-, 
ject, during that time, to many attacks of fever and 
other epidemics, have steadily followed the business 
of a country physipian. 

I would further remark, before proceeding to the 
direct answer to your questions, that soon perceiv- 
ing the benefit resulting from the course I had 
commenced, and finding the irritation to diminish 
in proportion as I diminished not'only the quality, 
but quantity of my food, I took less than half a pint 



HA VfiiQETABLE DIET. 

at a meal, with a- graall piece of bread, amounting 
to about the quantity of a Boston cracker ; and at 
times, in order to lessen arterial action, added sonto 
water to the milk, taking only my. usual quantity in 

bulk. 

A seton was worn in the side, and a little exer- 
cise on horseback taken three tiiiies every day, as 
strength would allow, during the whole progress. 
The appetite was, at all times, not only travingj it 
WBiS voracious ; insomuch that all my sufferings 
from all other sources, dwindled to .a point when 
compared with it. 

The quantity that I ate at a time so fat from 
satisfying my appetite, only served to increase it ; 
and this inconvenience continued during^the whole 
term, without the least abatement ; — and the only 
means by which I could resist its cravings, vjias to 
live entirely by myself, and keep out of sight of all 
kinds of food except the scanty pittance on* which 
I subsisted. And now to the proposed questions. 

i. Increased. 

2. More agreeable, hunger excepted. 

3. To the first part of this question I should say 
evidently clearer ; to the latter part, such was the 
state of debility when I commenced, and such was 
it through the whole course, I am not able to givie 
a decisive answer. 

4. This question, you will perceive', is already 
answered in my preliminary remarks. 

5. Fewer, insomuch that I had none. 

6. Two full years. 

7. My living, from early life, had been conform- 



DR. TXEEY. 85 

able to the habits of the farmers of New England, 
from which place I emigrated, and my habits in 
regard to stimulating drinks were always moderate ; 
but I occasionally took them, in conformity to the 
customs of those ^^ times of ignoranceJ* 

8. I literally drank nothing'; the milk wholly 
supplying the place of all liquids. 

9. State of the bowels good before adopting the 
course, and after. 

10. I do not, 

11. I have not. 

Yours, (fcc. 

Caleb Bannister. 



LBTTER VII, — PROM DR. LYMAN TERRT» 

Franklin, Vermont, June 82, 183& 

Sir, — In answer to your inquiries, in the Boston 
Medical and Surgical Journal, Yol. XII., page 78, 1 
can say that I have lived entirely upon a bread and 
milk diet, without using any animal food other than 
the milk. 

1. At first, my bodily strength was diminished to 
a certain degree, and required a greater quantity of 
food and rather oftener than when upon a 'mixed 
diet of animal food (strictly so called) and vegetables. 

2. The animal sensations, attending upon the 
procesei of digestion, were rather more agreeable than 
when upon a tnixed diet. 

3. My mind was more clear, but I could oot con- 

3 



36 VEGETABLE DIET. 

tinue a laborioius investigation as long as when I 
used animal food more plentifully. 

4. At this time there were no constitutional in- 
firmities which I was laboring under, excq^t those 
which more or less accompany the rapid growth of 
the body; such as a general lassitude, impaired 
digestion, &,c,y which were neither removed nor 
aggravated, but kept about so, until I ate just what, 
I pleased, without any regard to my indigestion, 
d&c — when I began to improve in the strength of 
my whole system. 

5. I do not recollect whether I was subject to 
more or less of colds ; but I can say I was perfectly 
free from all febrile attacks, although febrile diseases 
often prevailed in my vicinity. But, since that time, 
a period of six years, I have had three attacks of 
fever. 

6. The length of time I was upon this diet was 
about two years. 

7. Before entering upon this diet, I was in the 
habit of taking a moderate quantity of animal food, 
but without very high seasoning or stimulants. 

8. WhilQ using tins diet, I confined myself en- 
tirely and exclusively to cold water as a drink — using 
neither tea, qoffee, nor spirits of any kind whatever. 

9. I am inclined to think that a vegetable diet is 
more aperient than, an animal one; indeed, I may 
say I know it to be a fact. 

IQ. From what I have experienced^ I do not 
think that laborers would be any more healthy by 
excluding animd food from their diet entirely ; hut 
IlieU^Ql^l^ would be much better if tbey would use 



DR. HARDEN. 27 

less. As to Students, I1)dieye their health wonld be 
promoted if they were to exclude it almost, if not 
entirely. 

11. I never have selected any vegetables which 
I thought to be more healthy than others ; nor 
indeed do I believe there is any one that is more 
healthy than another; but believe that all those 
vegetables which we use in the season of them, are 
adapted to supply and satisfy the wants of the 
system. 

We are carnivorous, as well as granivorous ani- 
mals, having- systems requiring animal, as well as 
vegetable food, to keep all the organs of the body in 
tune ; and perhaps we need a greater variety than 
other animals. 

Yours, &c. Ltman Terrt. 



LETTEfR VIII^— ^FROM DR. J. M. B. HARDEN. 

Liberty Coonty, Georgia, Jul/ !&, 1836. 

Sir, — Having observed, in the May number 
of the << American Journal of the Medical Scien-^ 
ces,'' certain inquiries in relation to diet, proposed 
by you to the physicians of the United States, 
I herewith transmit to you an account of a case ex- 
actly in point, which I hope may prove interesting 
to yourself, and in some degree <^ assist in the settle* 
ment of a que^ion of great interest to the country ^^* 

The ease, to which allusion is made, occurred in 
the person of a very intelligent and tmly scientific 



28 VROETABLE DIET. 

gentleman of this county, whose regular habits, both 
of mind and body, added to his sound and discrimi- 
nating judgment, will tend to heighten the value 
and importance of the experiment involved in the 
case I am about to detail. 

Before proceeding to give his answers to your in- 
terrogatories, it may be well to premise, that at the 
time of commencing the experiment^ he was forty- 
five years of age; and being an extensive cotton 
planter, his business was such as to make it neces- 
sary for him to undergo a great deal of exercise, 
particularly on foot, having, as he himself declares, 
to walk seldom less than ten miles a day, and 
frequently more; and this exercise was continued 
during the whole period of the experinudnt. . His 
health for two years previously had been very feeble, 
arising, as he supposed, from a diseased spleen; 
which organ is at this time enlarged, and somewhat 
indurated. His digestive powers have always been 
good, and he had been in the habit of making his 
meals at times entirely of animal food. His bowels 
have always been regular, and rather inclined to 
looseness, but never disordered. He is five feet 
eight inches high, of a very thin and spare habit of 
body, with thin dark hair, inclining to baldness ; 
complexion rather dark than fair ; eyes dark hazel ; 
of very studious habits when free from active en- 
gagements; with great powers of mental abstraction 
and attention, and of a temper remarkably even. 
. In answer to your interrogatories, he replies, — ^^ 

1« That his bodily strength was increased, and 
fcoieral health becan^ better. 



DR. HARDBKv 



3. He perceived no difierence* 

3. He is assured of the affirmative. 

4. His spleen was diminished in size, and fr^ 
quent and long continued attacks of bumboffo were 
rendered much milder^ and have so continued. 

5. Had fewer colds and febrile attacks. 

6. Three years. 

7. No; with the slight exception mentioned 
above. 

8. No. 

9. In his case rather less. 

10. Undoubtedly. 

11. No ; has made bis meais of cabbages entirely, 
and found theni as easily digested as any other 
article of diet. I may remark, that honey to him is a 
prison ; producing, invariably, symptoms of cholera. 

After three years trial of this diet, without having 
any previous apparent disease, but on the contrary 
as strong as usualj he was taken, somewhat suddenly, 
in the winter of 1832 and 3, with symptoms of ex- 
treme debility, attended with oedematous swellings of 
the lower extremities, and painful cramps, at night 
confined to the gastrocnemii of both legs, and some 
feverish ness, indicated more by the beatings of the 
carotids than by any other symptom. His counte- 
nance became very pallid, and indeed he had every 
appearance of a man in a very low state of health. 
Yet, during the whole period of this apparent state 
of disease, there were no symptoms indicative of 
disorder in any function, save the general function 
of iimervation, and perhaps that of the lymphatics 
or absorbents of the lower extcemitiesu Nor was 
3* 



30 



VEGETABLE DIET. 



there any manifest disease of any organ, untessr 
it was the spleen, wliich was not then remarka- 
bly enlarged. I was myself disposed to attribute 
his symptoms to the spleen, and possibly to the 
want of animal food; but he himself attributes its 
commencement, if not its continuance, to the inha- 
lation of the vapor of arseniuretted and sulphuretted 
hydrogen gasses, to which he was subjected during 
some chemical experiments on the ores of cobalt, to 
which be has been for a long time turning his 'at- 
tention ; a circumstance which 1 had not knawn 
until lately. 

However it may be, he agmin returned to a mixed 
diet, (to which however he ascribes no agency in 
his recovery,) and, after six months' continuance in 
this state, he rapidly recovered his usual health and 
strength, which, up to this day — two full years 
after the expiration of six months — have continued 
good. In the treatment of his case no medicine of 
any kind was given, to which any good effect can 
be -attributed ; and indeed he may be said to have 
undergone no medical treatment at all. 

Yours, (fee. J. M. B. Harden. 



LETTER IX* PROM JOSEPH ' RICKETSON,' ESQ. 

New Bedford^ 8th month ^tb, 1835. . 

Respected Friend, -r- Perhaps before giving 
wswers to thy queries in- the American Journal Of 
litdicat Science, it may not be amiss to give thee 



JOSEPH RICKETSON, ESQ. 31 

some account of my family and manner of living, to 
enable thee to judges of the effect of a vegetable diet 
on the constitution. • » 

I have a wife, a mother aged eighty-eight, and two 
female domestics. It is now near three years since 
we adopted what is called the Graham or vegetable 
diet, though not in its fullest extent. We exclude 
animal food from our diet, but sometimes we indulge 
in shell and other fish. We use no kind of stimula- 
ting liquors, either as drink or in cookery, nor any 
other stimulants except occasionally a Kttle spicie. 
We do not, as Professor Hitchcock would recom- 
mend, nor as I believe would be most conducive to 
good health, live entirely simple; sometimes, how- 
ever, for an experiment, I have eaten only rice- and 
milk; at othei^ times only potatoes and milk -for my 
dinner ; and have uniformly found I could endure 
as much fatigue, and walk as far without incon- 
venience as when I have eaten a greater variety. 
We, however, endeavored to make our varieties 
mostly at different meals. 

For breakfast and tea we have some hot water 
poured upon milk, to which we add a little sugar, anfl 
cold bread and butter ; but in cold weather we toast 
the bread, and prefer having it so cool as not to melt 
the butter. We seldom eat a meal without some 
kind of dried or preserved fruit, such as peaches, 
plums, quinces, or apples; and in the season, when 
easily to be procured, we use freely baked apples, 
also berries, particularly black-berries stewed, which, 
while cookings are sweetened and thickened a little. 
Our dinners are nearly the sam^s as our other meabj 



32 VEOETABLE DIET. 

except that we use cold milk, without any water. We 
have puddings sometimes made of stale bread, at 
^others of Graham or other flour, or rice, or ground 
rice, usually baked; we have also hasty puddings, 
made of Indian meal, or Graham flour which we eat 
with milk or melted sugar and cream ; occasional-, 
ly we have other simple puddings, such as tapioca, 
&c. Custards, with or without a crust, pies made 
of apple, and other fruits either green or preserved ; 
but we have no more shortening in the crust than 
just to make it a little tender. 

I have two sons ; one lived with us about fifteen 
months after we adopted this mode of living; it 
agreed remarkably well with him ; he grew strong 
and fleshy. He married since that time, and, in 
some measure, returned to the usual manner of 
living ; but he is satisfied it does not agree so well 
with him as the Graham diet. The coarse bread 
he cannot well do without. My other son was 
absent when we commenced this way of living ; he 
has been at home about six weeks, and has not eaten 
any animal food except when he dined put. He has 
evidently to^^ flesh, and is not very well ; he thinks 
he shall not be able to live without animal food, but 
I think his indisposition is more owing to the season 
of the year than diet. He never drank any tea or 
coflee until about four years since, when he took 
some coffee for a while, but no tea^ For the last 
twoyears he has not drank either, when he could get 
milk. He is generally healthy, and so is his brother : 
both were literally brought up on gingerbread and 
fbilk, never taking animal food ^ dioice, until they 
were fifteen or sixteen years of age. 



JOSEPH RICKETSON, ESQ. 33 

Dr. Keep, of Fairhaven, Connecticut, was here 
about a year since, in very bad health, since* which I 
learn he has recovered by abstaining from animal 
food and other injurious diet As he is a scientific 
man, I think he can give thee some useful informa- 
tion. 

1. The strength of both myself and wife has 
very materially increased, so that we can now walk 
ten miles as easily as we could five before; possibly 
it may in part be attributed to practice. Our health 
is, in every respect, much improved. One of our 
women enjoys perfect health ; the other was feeble 
JKvhen we conmieneed this way of living, and she 
has not gained much if any in the time ; but this 
may be owing to her attendance on my mother, both 
day and night, who, being blind and feeble, takes 
no exercise except to walk across the room ; but 
we are very sure she would not have lived to this 
time had she hot adopted this way of living. 

2. The process of digestion is much more 
agreeable, if we do not indulge in eating too much* 
We seldom have occasion to think of it after risiiig 
from the table. 

3. I do not perceive much eflfect on the mind, 
other than what would naturally be produced by 
the testoration of health ; but have no doubt a labo- 
rious investigation might be continued as long, if 
not longer, on this than on any other diet. 

4. I was formerly very much afflicted with the 
head-ache, and sometimes was troubled with rheu- 
matisRL I have very seldom^ for the last two years 
especially, been troubted with either; and whea I 



34 VEGETABLE DIET. 

have had a turn of head-ache, it is light indeed 
compared with what it was before we adopted this 
system of Uving. My wife was very dyspeptic, and 
often had severe turns of palpitation of the heart ; 
the latter is entirely removed, and she seldom ex- 
periences any inconvenience from the former. Our 
nurse was formerly, and still is, troubled with severe 
turns of head-ache, though not so bad as formerly ; 
and I think she would have much less of it if she 
were placed in a different situation. 

5. We scarcely know what it is to have a cold ; 
my wife in particular.* Previously to our change 
of diet, I was very subject to severe colds, attended 
with a hard cough, which lasted; sometimes, for 
several weeks. 

6. As before stated, we exclude animal food from 
our diet, as weU as tea and coffee. 

7. Before we adopted a vegetable diet, we al- 
ways bad meat for dinner, and generally with 
breakfast ; and not unffequently with tea. Tea and 
coffee we drahk very strong. 

8. We have substituted milk and water sweetwi- 
ed, for tea and coffee. 

9. Most vegetables I find have a tendency (espe- 
cially when Graham or unbolted wheaten fiour is 
used) to keep the bowels open ; to counteract which, 
we use rice once or twice a week. Potatoes, when 
eaten freely, are flatulent, but not inconvenient when 
eaten moderately. 

10. I think the health of Students, by the exclu^ 
sion of animal food from their diet, would be promot* 
edf-^iqiedally if they excluded tea and cc^fee also ; 



JOSEPH C01f<3IV0N, Esa. 35 

and I can see no good reason why it should not be 
beneficial to laboring people. I have conversed with 
two or three mechanics, who confirm me in this 
belief. 

II. Graham bread, as we call it, eaten with milk, 
or baked potatoes and milk, for moist people, I think 
would be healthy ; to which shoufld be added such 
a proportion of rice as may be found necessary. 

Thy friend, 

Joseph Ricketson. 



LETTER X. FROM JOSEPH CONGDON, ESa. 

New Bedford, Sept. 1835. 

Answers to Dr. North's inquiries on diet. 

1. Increase of strength and activity, connected 
with, and perhaps in some good degree a conse- 
quence of an increase of daily exercise. 

2. Process of digestion more regular and 
agreeable. 

3. Mental activity greater; no decisive experi- 
ments on the ability to continue a laborious investi- 
gation. 

4. Dyspepsia of long continuance, and also diffi- 
cult breathing; inflammation of the eyes. 

6. Fewer colds ; febrile attaeks very slight ; great 
elasticity in recovering from disease. Some part 
of the ^9Eect should undoubtedly be ascribed to 
greater attention to liie skin by bathing and friction. 

6. Twenty-six months of entire abstinence from 



36 TEGETABLB DIET* 

all animal substances, excepting butter and milk. 
Salt is used regularly. 

7. Through life inclined to a vegetable diet, 
with few stimulants. 

8. Drinks have been milk, milk-and-water, or 
cold water. 

9. A well-selected vegetable diet appears to pro- 
duce a very regular action of the stomach and 
bowels. 

10. I think the health of laborers and students 
would be promoted by a great reduction of the 
usual quantity of animal food, and perhaps by dis- 
continuing its use entirely. I feel no want. 

11. From my experience, I can very highly rec- 
ommend bread made of coarse wheat flour. Among 
fruits, the blackberry, as peculiarly adapted to the 
state of the body, at the time of the year when it is 
in sea^n. My range of food has been confined. 
I avoid green vegetables. Age 35. 

Joseph Congdon. 



LETTER XI. — FROM GEORGE W. BAKER, ESQ. 

New Bedford, 9th month 10, 183&. 

Dr. M. L. North, — Agreeably to request, the 
following answers are forwarded, which I believe to 
be correct as far as my experience has tested. 

1. At first it was diminished; but after a few 
months it was restored, and I think increased. 
. 2. More. » 



> 



G. W. BAKER, SSa. — J* HQV^I«AJID JR^ ESO* ST 

3. Itconid. 

4. Pretty tree from constitutioDal infirmilies be- 
fore the change, and no increase since. 

.6. I have bad no cold, of any consequence, for 
the last three years*; at which, time I substituted cold 
water for tea and coffee, and commenced using cold 
water for washing about my head and neck and 
for shaving, which I continued through the yeai. 

6. I have not eaten animal food for about eighteen 
months. • 

7. Two years previous to the entire change the 
quantity wa$$ great, but thero had been a gradual 
diminution. 

8. It was. (See fifth answer.) 

9. More go, in my case.. 

10. I believe the health of both laborers and 
students would be improved, 

11. I have generally avoided eating cucum'beis ; 
otherwise I have not. 

Thy assured Friend, Geo. W. Baker. 



LETTER XII. from JOHN HOWLAND, JR. ES<1. 

Jifew Bedford, 9th month 10th day, 1835. 

Friend, — As I have lived nearly three year$, 
upon a vegetable diet, I cheerfully comply with thy 
request.' 

1. My bodily strength has been increased; and 

I can now endure much more exercise than for- 

merly^ without &tigue. 
4 



38 VEQETABLE DIET. 

2. They are more agreeable; and I am now free 
from that dull, heavy feeling, which I used to expe- 
rience after my meals. 

3. My mind is much clearer; and I am free 
from that depression of spirits, to' which I was for- 
merly subject. 

4. I was of a costive, dyspeptic habit, which has 
been entirely removed. I had frequent and severe 
attacks of head-ache, which I now rarely have ; and 
when they do occur they are very light, compared 
with what they formerly were. 

6. I have had fewer colds, and those much 
lighter than formerly. 

6. About three years. 

7. I used to eat animal food for breakfast and 
dinner, with coffee for drink, at those meals ; and 
tea for my third meal, with bread and butter. 

8. Milk for breakfeist, and cold water for the 
other two meals. 

9. I have found it more so ; inasmuch as the 
use of it, with the substitution of bread, made from 
coarse unbolted toheat Jlour^ instead of superfine,, 
has removed my costiveness entirely. 

la I do. 

11. I. consider potatoes and rice as the most 
healthy, and confine m3rself principally to the 
former. 

I would remark that during the season of fruits, 
I eat freely of them, with milk; and consider them 
to be healthy. John Howland, Jr, 



DR. WEBSTER. 39 



I.ETTER XIII. — FROM DR. W. H. WEBSTER. 

Batana, N. Y^ Oct 21, 1835. 

Sir, — Some months since, I read your inquiries 
on diet in the Boston Medical and Sargical Jour- 
nal; and subsequently in the Journal of Medical 
Sciences, Philadelphia. 

I will answer your questions, numerically, from 
my knowledge of a case somewhat in point, and 
with which I am but too familiar, as it is my own. 
But, first, let me' premise a few points in the his- 
tory of my health, ,as a kind of key to my an- 
swers. 

It is about fifteen years since I was called a dys- 
peptic ; this was while engaged in my academical 
studies. Not being instructed by my medical 
friend to make arfy alteration in diet and regimen, I 
ihereiy swallowed his cathartics for one month, and 
his anodynes for the next month, as the bowels 
were constipated or relaxed. In short, I left college 
more dead than alive — a confirmed dyspeptic. 

In 1826, I commenced the practice of physic. 
From this' time, to the winter of 1831^2, I found it 
necessary gradually to diminish my indulgence in 
the luxuries of the table — especially in animal food, 
and distilled and fermented liquors. On one of the 
most inclemerit nights, of the winter of 1831-8, a 
fire broke out in our village, at which I became very 
wet by perspiration, and the ill-directed eflforts.of 
some to extinguish it. . This was followed by a se- 
vere inflammatory attack lipcm the digestive organs 



40 VEGETABLE DIET. 

generally, and especially upon the renal regicHi, 
which con£uied me to the house for more than eight 
months ; and, for the greatest share of that time, with 
the most excruciating torture. On getting out again, 
I found myself in a wretched condition indeed-— 
reduced to a i^eieton — a v.oracious appetite, which 
could not be indulged, and which had scarcely de- 
serted me through the whole eight months. I could 
not regain my flesh or strength but by almost imper- 
ceptible degrees ; indeed, loaf-sugar and crackers 
were almost the only food I could use with impunity 
for the first year. ~ 

Jt is now nearly four years since I have eaten 
animal food, unless it be here and there a little, as an 
experiment, with the sole exception of^ oysters, in 
which I can indulge, but with all due deference to 
the stricter rules of temperance. Still my appetite 
for animal food seems unabated. I have ever been 
a man unusually temperate in the use of intoxi- 
cating drinks ; and by no means inteinperate in the 
luxuries of the table. I take no meat, no alcoholic 
or fermented drinks, not even cider ; and, for a year 
past, my health has been better than for three years 
previous; and I. think that about one third the 
amount of nourishment usually taken by men of my 
age, might subserve the purposes of food for me 
better than a larger quantity. The more I eat, the 
more I desire to eat ; and abstinence is my best 
medicine. 

But I have already surpassed my limits, and here 
are my answers. 

1. My strength is invariably diminished by ani- 



DR. WEBSTER. 41 

mal food, and in almost direct proportion to the 
quaiitit]^, with the exception named above.* 

2. ^ Pain has been the uniform attendant upon the 
digestion of an animal diet, with feverish restless- 
ness and constipation. - 

3. Decidedly more fit for energetic action; 

4. An irritation, or subacute inflammation of 
the digestive apparatus, which is aggravated by ani- 
mal food. 

5. Can endure hardship, exposure and fatigue, 
much better without meat. 

6. About four years, with the exception stated 
above. 

7. It was not. 

8. Partially at the commencement; but not of 
late, if not taken hot. 

9. Much more aperient. 

10. Both classes* take too much; and students 
and sedentaries should take little qr none. 

li; For myself farinaceous articles first, then 
the succulent sub-acid ripe fruits, then the less oily 
nuts are most healthful —r and animaf food, strong 
coflee and tea, and unripe or hard fruits, in any con- 
siderable quantities, ^re most pernicious. 

Yours, dkc. W. H. Webster. 



LETTER XIV. PROM JOSIAH BENNET, ESQ. 

. • - 

Mount -Joy, Pa., October ^, 1835. 

jgjRj_I hereby transmit to you, answers to a 

series of dietetic queries which you hav^ recently 

submitted. 

4* 



42 VEGfiTABLC DIET. 

•1. My physical strength was at least equal (I am 
rather inclined to think greater) after abstaining, 
from animal food. I was, I am certain, not subject 
to such general debility and lassitude of the system, 
after considerable bodily exercise. 

2. More agreeable — not being subject to a sense 
of vertigo, which frequently (with me) fbllowed the 
use of aninial food. There is, generally, more cheer- 
fulness and vivacity. 

3. The mind is more clear, and is not so liable 
to be confused when intent upon any intricate sub- 
ject; and, of course, "can continue a laborious in- 
vestigation longer." There is at no time such a 
propensity to incogitancy. 

4. I am not aware of being the subject of any 
"constitutional infirmities-/' yet, that the change of 
diet had a very great effect upon the system, is obvi- 
ous, from the faqt of my having been, formerly, sub- 
ject to an eruptive disease of the skin, principally. on 
the shoulders and upper part of the back, for a 
number of years, which is. not the case at present, 
nor do. I think will be, as long as I continue my 
present mode of Hving. 

5. I think I have not had as many colds and 
febrile attacks as biefore, nor have they been so. se- 
vere ; yet I cannot be very decisive on this point, 
on account of the length of lime in the trial not 
being fully sufficient. 

6. Between seven and eight months. I must 
here state that animal food was not entirely ex- 
cluded. I probably partook, in very moderate quan- 
li^»08i once or twice a week. 



JOSIA^ BBKHE'T, KSQ. * 43 

7. The quantity^ of animal food which would be 
considered "an uncommon proportion/' I am unable 
to determine ; biit I was accustomed to make use of 
it, not less than twice, and sometimes three times a 
day, moderately seasoned. No other stimulants, of 
any account. 

8. Gold Witter has been the only substitute for 
tea and coffee, with the exception of an occasiofial 
cup; probably as often as once or twice a week. I 
was, on sever&l occasions, by personal experience, 
induced to believe that tlie use. of strong coffee jre- 
tarded the process of digestion. 

9. More aperient. Previous to the general ex- 
clusion of animal food from my diet, I was subject 
to inveterate costiveness ; eases of which are now 
neither frequent nor severe. 

10. I do firmly believe it would. 

11. My diet, principally, during the trial, consist- 
ed of wheat btead, of the proper age ; with a mode- 
rate quantity of fresh butter. Potatoes, beans, and 
soihe other esculent roots, &c. I found to^ be nutri- 
tious and healthy. The following substances I 
found to produce a contrary effect, or to possess 
different qualities : — Cabbage, when not well boiled ; 
cucumbers, raw or pickled ; radishes, beets^ and the 
whole catalogue of preserves. Presh bread, was 
particularly burtfiil to me. 

Yours, &c. JosiAH BennetI 



44 ▼KGETABK DIKT. 



LETTER XV. — FROM WM. VINCENT, ESQ. 

HopldntoD, R.L, Dec 23, 1835. 

Sir, — The fiidlowing answer to the interrc^tioDs 
in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal of 
March, 1835, on diet, &c., as proposed by yourself, 
has been, through the press of business, neglected 
until this late period. Trusting they may be of 
some use, I now forward them. 

I. Rather increased, if any change. 
2. 

3. I think I have retained the vigor of my mind 
more, in consequence of an abstemiotis diet. 

4. I thought I had the appearance of scurvy, 
which gradually disappeared. 

6. 

6. From May 20, 1811, (more than twenty-four 

years.) 

7. Small in quantity, and dressed and cooked 
simply. 

8. I have drank nothing but warm tea, for seven 
years.. 

. _9. Bowels uniformly open. 
; 10. I should not think it would. 

II. I have lived principally on bread, butter and 
cheese, and a few dried vegetables. 

I was born March 31, 1764. In 1833, when 
mowing, to quench thirst, I drank about a gill of 
cold water, after about as much milk and water ; 
and the same year, some molasses and water ; but 



WM. YIN-CElfT, K8Cl.-^l>It* FKRRY. 46 

they did not answer the purpose. But when I 
rinsed my. mouth with cold water, it allayed my 
thirst. 

(Signed) Wm. Vincent. 

Note. — Mr. Vincem is of Stonington, Ct. 



LETTER XVI. FROM L. R. BRADLEY, BY DR. 

GEO. H. PERRY. 

Hopkinton, R. I., Dec. 23, 1835. 

Sir, — I deem it necessary, first, to mention the 
situation of my health, at the time of commencing 
abstinence from animal food. I was recovering 
from an illness of a nervous fever. A sudden 
change respecting my food not sitting well, rendered 
it necessary for me to abstain from all kinds, ex- 
cepting dry wheat bread aqd gruel, for several 
weeks. By degrees I returned to my former course 
of diet, but as yet not to its full extent, as I cannot 
partake of animal food of any kind whatever, nor of 
vegetables cooked therewith. 

i. Diminished. 

3. I do not perceive the mind to be clearer, and 
the power of investigation less. 

4. Distress in the stomach and pain in the head 
removed. 

.5. .. 

6. Six years and ten months. 

7. Unusual proportion of animal food. 



46 VEGETABLE DIET. 

8. The first year, I drank only warm water, 
sweetened ; since that, tea. 

9. 

10. I do not. 

11. I find beets particularly hard to digest. 

It. R. B. 

The foregoing statements and ailswers are in her 
own way and manner. 

Yours, &c. Geo. H. Perry. 



L-ETTER XVII. — FROM DR. L. W. SHERMAN. 

Falmoathj Mass., March 28, 183& 

Sir, — In compliance with the request you recent- 
ly made in the Medical Journal, I inclose the follow- 
ing answers to the queries relative to regimen yon 
have propounded. They are given by a lady, whose 
experience, intelligence and discernment have emi- 
nently qualified her to answer them. She, with 
myself, are equally interested with you in having 
this important question settled, and are extremely 
happy that you have undertaken to do it. This 
lady is now fifty years of age ; her constitution 
naturally is good ; her early habits were active, and 
her diet simple, until twenty years of age. After 
that, until within a few years, her living consisted of 
all kind3 of meats and delicacies, with wine after 
dinners, &c &c. 

1. Her bodily strength was greatly increased by 
excluding animal fot>d from ber4iet. 



DH. SHERMAN. 47 

2. The animal sensations connected with the 
process of digestion have been decidedly more agree- 
able. 

3. The mind is much clearer, the spirits much 
better, the temper nK)re even, and '' less irritability 
pervades the system." The mind can continue a 
laborious investigation longer than when she sub- 
sisted on a mixed diet. 

4. Her health, which was before feeble, has, by 
the change, been decidedly improved. 

6. She has certainly had fewer colds, and no 
febrile attacks of any consequence, since she has 
practised rigid abstinence from meats. 

6. She has abstained entirely for three years, 
and has taken but little for seven or eight years ; 
and whenever she has, from necessity, (in being 
from home, where she could procure nothing else,) 
indulged in eating meat, she has universally suffered 
severely in consequence. • 

7. The change to a vegetable diet was preceded, 
in her case, by the use of an uncommon proportion 
of animal food, highly seasoned with stimulants. 

8. Tea and coffee she has not used for thirteen 
years. She has used, for substitutes, water, milk 
and water, barley water, and gruel. She found tea 
and coffee to have an exceedingly pernicious effect 
upon her nervous and digestive system. 

9. A vegetable diet is more aperient than a 
mixed. Habitual constipation has been entirely re- 
moved l>y the change. 

10. She sincerely believes, from her experience, 
that the health of laborers and students would be 



48 VEQETABLB DIET. 

generally promoted by the exclusion of animal food 
from their diet 

11. She considers hommony, as prepared at the 
south,, particularly healthy ; and suteists upon this, 
with bread made from coarse flour, with broccoli, 
Cauliflower, and all kinds of vegetables in their 
season. 

Be assured, dear sir, that th6se answers have 
come from a high source, to which private reference 
may at any time be made, and consequently are 
entitled to the highest consideration. 

Yours, &c. 

L. W. Sherman. 

Note. — If I have not been minute enough in the 
relation of this case, I sh^ll hereafter be happy to 
answer any questions you may think proper to 
propose. It is a ye'^ry interesting and important case, 
in my opinion. The lady has been under my care 
a number of times, while laboring imder slight indis- 
position. She has always been very regiilar and 
systematic in aU her habits.. She. is healthy and 
robust in appearance, and looks as though she 
might not be more than forty. This is the only 
case of the kind within my knowledge. I have 
practised on her plan for a few weeks at, a time, and, 
so far as my experience goes, it precisely comports 
with hers. But I love the Vgood things" of this 
world too well to abstain from their use, until some 
formidable disense demands their prohibition; 

Yours, &c. - li. W. Si 



CHAPTER m. 



• REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING LETTERS. 

Correspondence. — The "prescribed coarse of regimen." How 
many victims to iti Not one. Case of Dr. Harden considered. 
Case of Ur. Preston. Views of Drs. Clark, Cheyne, and Lanri), 
qa the treatment of scrofula. No reports of injoiy fiom the 
prescribed system. Case of Dr. Bannister, Singular testimony 
of Dr. Wright. Vegetable food for laborers. Testimony, on the 
whole, much more favorable ta the vegetable system than could 
reasonably have been expected, in the circumstances. 

"Reports not tinfrequently reach us,'' says Dr. 
North, "of certain individuals* who have Csdlen 
victims to a prescribed course of regimen. These 
persons are said, by gentlemen who are entitled to 
the fullest confidence, to have pertinaciously follow- 
ed the course, till they reached a point of reduction 
from which tliere was no recovery." " If these are 
fikcts," he adds, "they ought to be known and 
published." 

It was in this view, that Dr. ]^orth, himself a 
medical practitioner of high respectability, sent forth 
to every comer of the land, through standard and 
qlrthodox Medical Journals, to r^lar and experi- 
enced physicians — rhis "medical brethren," — his 
list of inquiries. These inquiries, designed to elicit 

6 



60 VXGETABLS DIET. 

tralhi were coached in just sach langaage as was 
caknlated to give free scope and an acceptable 
channel for the communication of every &ct which 
seemed to be opposed to the veoetable ststem ; 
for this, we believe, was distinctly understood, by 
every medical man, to he the ^prescribed course of 
regimen " alluded to. 

The results of Dr. North's inquiries, and of ao 
opportunity so favorable for ^' putting down," by the 
exhibition of sober facts, the vegetable system, are 
fully presented in the foregoing chapter. Let it not 
be said by any, that the attempt was & partial or 
unfair one. Let it be remembered that every effort 
was made to obtain truth in/acts^ without partiality, 
favor, or affection. Let it be remembered, too, that 
nearly two years elapsed before Dr. North gave op 
his papers to the author; during which time, and 
indeed up to the present hour — a period, in the 
whole, of more than three years — a door has lieen 
opened to every individual who had anything to say, 
bearing upon the subject. 

Let us now review the contents of the foregoing 
chapter. Let us see, in the first place, what number 
of persons have here been reported, by medical men, 
as having fallen victims to the stdd "prescribed 
course of r^men.'' 

The matter is soon disposed of. Not a case of 
the description is found in the whole catalogue of 
returns to Dr. N. This is a triumph which the 
friends of the vegetable system did not expect 
From the medical profession of this country, hostile 
as many of them are known to be to the "prescribed 



REMARKS. 61 

course of regimen/' tfaey must naturally have ex- 
pected to hear of at least a few persons who were 
supposed to have iallen victims to it. But, I say 
again, not one appears. 

It is true that Dr. Preston, of Plymouth, Mass., 
thinks he should have fallen a victim to his absti- 
nence from flesh meat, had he not altered his course ; 
and Dr. Harden, of Georgia, relates a case of sudden 
loss of strength, and great debility, which he thought, 
at the time, ihight "possibly'^ be ascribed to the 
want of animal food ; though the individual himself 
attributed it to quite another cause. These are tUe 
only two, of a list of thirty or forty, which were 
detailed, that bear the slightest resemblance to 
those which report bsid brought to he ear of Dr. 
N., and about which he so anxiously and ear- 
nestly solicited inquiry of his medical brethren. 

As to the case mentioned by Dr. Hiarden, no one 
who examines it with care, will believe for a mo- 
ment, that it affords the slightest evidence against a 
diet exclusively vegetable. The gentleman who 
made the experiment had pursued it faithfully three 
years, withput the slightest loss of strength, but 
with many advantages, when^ of a sudden, extreme 
debility came on. Is it likely that a diet on which 
he had so long been doing weU, should produce 
-such a sudden falling oflf? The gentleman himself 
appears not tp have had the slightest suspicion that 
the debility had any connection with the diet. He 
attributed its commencement, if not its continuance, 
to the inhalation of poisonous gases, to which he was 
subjected, in the process of some chemical experi- 
ments. 



62 VEGETABLE DIET. 

But whyi theDi it may be askedy did he return to 
a; mixed diet, if he had imbibed no doubts in regard 
to a diet exclusively vegetable ; and, above all, how 
happened he to recover on it? To this it may be 
replied, that there is every reason to believe^ from 
the tenor of the letter, that he acted against his own 
inclination, and contrary to his own views, at the 
request of his friends, and of Dr. Harden, his phjrsi- 
cian ; tliough Dr. Harden does not expressly say so. 
Besides, it does not appear that under his mixed 
diet tliero was any favorable change, till something 
like six months had elapsed. This was a period, 
in all probability, just sufficient to allow the poison 
of tlie gases to disappear; after which he might 
have been ex|H)cted to recover on any diet not 
positively bad. If this is not a true solution of the 
case, how happens it that there was no disease of 
any organ or function, except the nervous function ? 
There is every reason for believing that Dr. Harden, 
at the date of his letter, had undergone a change 
of opinion, and was himself beginning to doubt 
whether the regimen had any agency in producing 
the debility.* 

The case of Dr. Preston is somewhat more diffi- 
cult. At first view, it seems to sustain the old 
notion of medical men, that, with a scrofulous habit, 
a diet exclusively vegetable cannot be made to 
agree. This, I say, seems to be a natural conclusion, 
at first view. But, on looking a little farther, we 
may find some facts that justify a different opinion.. 

• See a more recent letter from Dr. Harden, in the next chapter. 



REM^ARKS. 63 

Dr. Preston was evidently timid and fearful- 
foreboding ill*— daring the whole progress of his 
experiment. We think his story folly justifies this 
conclusion. In such circumstances/ what could 
have been expected ? There is no course of regimen 
in the world which will succeed happily in a state 
of mind like this. 

It should be carefully observed by the reader, that 
Dr. Preston speaks of entering upon a "severe 
course of diet ; " and also, that, in attempting to give 
an opinion as to the best kind of vegetable food, he 
speaks of potatoes, prepared in a certain specified 
manner, as being preferable to any other. Now, I 
think it obvious, that Dr. Preston's "severe course" 
partook largely of crude vegetables, instead of the 
richer and better farinaceous articles — as the vari- 
ous sorts of bread, rice, pulse, &c. — and, if so, it is 
not to ' be wondered at that it was so unsuccessfol. 
In «hort, I do not think he made any thing like a 
fair experiment in vegetable diet. His testimony, 
therefore, though in terestingj seems to be entitled to 
very little weight. 

This conclusion is stated with the more conA- 
dence,/rom the fact that some of the best medical 
writers, not only of ancient times, but of the present 
day, appear to entertain serious doubts in regard to 
the soundness of the popular opinion in favor of the 
" beef steak and porter " system of curing scrofolous 
patients. Dr. Clark, in the progress of his "Treatise 
on Consumption," almost expresses a belief that a 
judicious vegetable diet is preferable even for the 
scrofulous. He would not, of course, recommend a 

5* 



64 TEGETABLE DIET. 

diet of crude vegetables, but one, rather, which 
would partake largely of farinaceous grains and 
fruits. Nor do I suppose he would, in every case, 
entirely exclude milk. 

Dr. Cheyne, in his writings, not only gives it as 
his opinion that a milk diet, long continued, or a 
milk and vegetable diet and mild mercurials, are the 
best means of curing scrofula ; but he also says, ex- 
pressly, that " in all countries where animal food and 
strong fermented liquors are too freely used, there 
is scarcely an individual that hath not scrofiilous 
glands." A sad story to relate, or to read ! But, 
Dr. Lambe, of London, and other British physicians, 
entertain similar sentiments ; and Dr. Lambe prac- 
tises medicine largely, while entertaining these 
sentiments. I could mention more than one distin- 
guished physician, in Boston and elsewhere, who 
prescribes a vegetable and milk diet in scrofula. 

But, granting even the most that the friends of 
animal food can claim, what would the case of 
Dr. Preston prove ? That the healthy are ever 
injured by the vegetable system?- By no means. 
That the sickly would generally be ? Certainly not. 
Dr. Preston himself even specifies one disease, in 
which he thinks a vegetable diet would be usefuL 
What, then, is the bearing of this single and singur 
lar case ? Why^ at the most, it only shows that 
there are some forms of djrspepsia which require 
animal food. Dr. Preston does not produce a single 
fact unfavorable to [a diet exclusively vegetable for 
the healthy.. 

It is also woJfthy of particular notice, that not a 



REMARKS. 66 

fact is brought, or an experiment related, in a list 
of from, thirty to forty cases, . reported too by medi- 
cal men, which goes to prove that any injury has 
arisen to the healthy, from laying aside the use of 
animal food. T^is kind of informaticM), though not 
the principal thing, was at least a secondary ob- 
ject with Dn North; as we see by his questions, 
which were intended to be put to those who had 
excluded animal food from their diet for a year 
or more. 

But, let us take a general view of the replies to 
the inquiries of Dr. North. The .sura of his first 
three questions, was, — What were the effects of ex- 
cluding aniraal food from your diet on your bodily 
strength, your mental faculties, and your appetite 
and animal spirits ? 

The answers to the tliree questions, of which this 
is the same,' are, as will be -seen, remarkable. In 
almost every instance the reply indicates that bodily 
and mental labor was endured with less fatigue than 
before, and that an increased activity of mind and 
body was accompanied with increased cheerfulness 
aiid animal enjoyment. In nearly every instance, 
strength of body was /actually increased ; especially 
after the first month. A result so uniformly in 
favor of the vegetable system is certainly n\pre than 
CQuld have been expected. 

One physician who made the experiment, indeed, 
says, that though his mind wa9 clearer than before, 
he could not endure so long a laborious investiga^ 
tion. Another individual saySf he perceived no 
difference in this respect. A third says, she found 



66 VEGETABLE DIET. 

her bodily strength and powers of inVest^tion 
somewhat diminished, though her disease was re- 
moved. With these exceptions, the testimony on 
this point is, as I have already, said, most decidedly 
— I might say most overwhelmingly — in favor of 
the disuse of animal food. 

To the question, whether any constitutioniJ in- 
firmities were aggravated or removed by the new 
course of regimen, the replies are almost equally 
favorable to the vegetable system. It is true that 
one of the physicians. Dr. Parmly, thinks the 
beneficial effects which appeared in the circle of 
his observation were the results of a simultaneous 
discontinuance of fermented drinks, tea and coffee, 
and condiments. But I believe every one who 
reads his letter will be surprised at his conclusions. 
No matter, however ; we have his facts, and we are 
quite willing they should be carefully considered. 
The singular case of Dr. Preston, I now leave 
wholly out of the account. 

Among the diseases and difficulties which were 
removed or supposed to be removed by the new diet, 
were dyspepsia, with the constipation which usually 
attends it, general lassitude, rheumatism, periodical 
head-ache, palpitations, irritation of the first passages^ 
eruptive diseases of the skin, scurvy, and consump- 
tion. 

The case of Dr. Bannister, who wais, in early life,* 
decidedly consumptive, is one of the most remarka^ 
ble on record. Though evidently consumptive, and 
near the borders of the grave, between the aged of 
twenty and twenty-nine, he so far- recovered as to 



REMAIIKS. 67 

be, at the age of fifty-three, entirely free from 
every symptom of phthisis for twenty-four years ; 
during which whole period, he was sufficiently 
vigorous to follow the laborious business of a coun- 
try physician. 

The confidence of Dr. Whght in the prophylactic 
powers of a diet exclusive vegetable, so £Eur as the 
mere opinion of one medical man is to be received as 
testimony in the case, is also remarkable. He not 
only regards the vegetable sjrstem as a defisnce 
against the diseases of miasmatic r^ions, but also 
against the varioloid disease. On the latter point, he 
goes, it seems, almost as far as Mr. Graham, who ap* 
pears to regard it not only as, in some measure, a pre- 
ventive of epidemic diseases generally, in which he 
is most undoubtedly correct, but also of the small-pox. 

The testimony on another point which is present* 
ed in the replies to Dr. North's questions, is almost 
equally uniform. 'In nearly every instance, the in- 
dividuals who have abandoned animal food have 
ibund themselves less subject to colds than before ; 
and some appear to have fallen into the habit of 
escaping them altogether. When it is considered 
how serious are the consequences of taking cold — 
when it is remembered that something like one half 
of the diseases of our climate have their origin in this 
source — it is certainly no trifling evidence in favor 
of a course of regimen, that, besides being highly 
favorable in every other respect, it should provie the 
means of freeing mankind from expostire to a 
malady at once troublesome in itself and disastrous 
in its consequences. 

In reply to the question,—^ Is a v^etable diet more 



68 VEGETABLK DIET. 

or less aperient than a mixed one, — the answeirs have 
been the same, in nearly every instance, that it is 
more so. 

The answers to the question whether it was be- 
lieved the health of either laborers or stadents 
would be promoted by the exclusion of animal food 
from their diet, are rather various. It will be ob- 
served, however, that many of the repUes,- in this 
case, are medical opinions^ and come from men who 
though they felt themselves bound to state &cts, 
were doubtless, with very few exceptions, prejudiced 
aigainst an exclusively vegetable regimen for the 
healthy. It is, therefore, to me, a matter of sur- 
prise, to find some of them in favor of the said 
prescribed course of regimen, both for students and 
laborers, and many of them in favor of the dis- 
continuance of animal food by students. Tbose 
who have themselves made the experiment, with 
hardly an exception, are decidedly in favor of a 
vegetable regimen for all classes of mankind) par- 
ticularly the sedentary. And in regard to the 
necessity of diminishing the proportion of aninial 
food consumed by all classes, there seems to be but 
one voice. 

On one more important point there is a very 
general concurrence of opinion. I allude to the 
choice of articles from the vegetable kingdom. The 
farinancea are considered as the best; especially 
wheat, ground without bolting. The preference of 
Dr. Preston is an exception ; and there are one or 
two others. 

On the whole — I repeat it — the testimony is far 
more favorable to the "prescribed course of regi- 



REMARKS. 69 

men," both for the healthy aod diseased, than under 
the circumstances connected with the inquii^ the 
most thorough-going vegetable eater could possibly 
have anticipated. If this is a fair specimen — and 
I know no reason why it may not be regarded as 
such — of the results of similar experiments, and 
similar observations among medical men through- 
out our country, could their observations and 
experiments . be collected^ it certainly confirms the 
views which some among us have long entertain- 
ed on this subject, and which will be still more 
strongly confirmed by evidence which will be pro- 
duced in the following chapters. Had similar 
eflForts been ms^de forty or fifty years ago, to ascer- 
tain the views of physicians and others respecting 
the benefits or safety of excluding wine and other 
fermented drinks in the treatment of several diseases, 
in which not one in ten of our modern practitioners 
would now venture to use them, as well as among 
the healthy, I believe the results would have been 
of a very different character. The opinions, at 
least, of the physicians themselves, would most 
certainly have been, nearly without a dissenting 
voice, that the entire rejection of wine and ferment- 
ed liquors was dangerous to the sick, and unsafe to 
many of the healthy, especially the hard laborer. 
And there ts quite as much reason to believe that 
animal food will be discarded from our tables in 
tlie progress of a century to come, as there was, in 
1800, for believing that all drinks but water would 
be laid aside in the progress of the century which 
is now passing. 



CHAPTER IV. 



ADDITIONAL INTELUQENCE. 

Letter (bom Dr. H. A. Barrows. Dr. J. M. B. Harden. Dr. J. 
Porter. Dr. N. J. Knight. Dr. Lester Keq>. Second letter 
(torn Dr. Keep. Dr. Heniy H. Brown. Dr. Franklin Knox. 
From a Physician. Additional statements by the Author. 

During the last twelve months, I have written to 
several of the physicians whose names, experiments 
and foots appear in Chapter II. Their answers, so 
for as received, are now to be presented. 

I have also received interesting letters from sev- 
eral other physicians in New England and else- 
where — but particularly in New England, — on the 
same general subject, which, with an additional 
statement of my own case, I have added to the fore- 
going. I might have obtained much more of the 
same sort of intelligence, had it not been for the want 
of time, amid numerous other pressing avocations, 
for correspondence of this kind. Besides, if what 
I have obtained is not satisfactory, I have many 
doubts whether more would be so. 

The first letter I shall insert is from Dr. H. A. 
Barrows, of Phillips, in Maine. It is dated October 
10, 1837, and may be considered as a sequel to that 
written by him to Dr. North, though it is addressed 
to the author of this volume. 



I 



DR. BABB0W8. 61 



LETTER.!. — FROM DR. H. A. BARROWS. 

Dear SirJ — As to food, my coarse of Mving has 
been quite uniform for the last two or three years — 
principally as follows, wheat meal bread, potatoes, 
butter, and baked sweet a|^les for breakfast and 
dinners. For suppers, old dry floor bread ; whicbi 
eaten very leisurely without batter, sauce, or drink, 
sits the lightest and best of any thing I eat Bat I 
cannot make tbis my principal diet, becaose the 
bowels will not aict {without physic) unless they have 
the spur of wheat bran two thirds of the time. I 
have at times practised going to bed without any 
third meal ; and have found niyself amply rewarded 
for this . kind of fasting, and the consequent respite 
thereby afforded the stomach,- in quiet sleep and 
improved condition the next day. And as to drink, 
I still use cold water, which I take with as great a 
zest, and as keen a relish, as the inebriate does 
his stimulus. I seldom drink any thing with my 
meals ; and if I could live without drinking any 
thing between meals, I think I should be rid of the 
principal " thorn in my side," the acetous fermenta- 
tion so constantly going on in my epigastric store- 
house. 

As to exercise, I take abundance ; perform all my 
practice (except in the winter) on horseback, and 
find this the very beist kind of exercise for me. I 
seldom eat oflener than at intervals of six hoars, 
and am apt to eat too niuch — have at various times 

6 . • • 



62 VEGETABLE DIET. 

attempted Don Cornaro's method of weighing food, 
but have found it rather dry business, probably on 
account of its conflicting with my appetite ; but I 
actually find that my stomach does not bear watch- 
ing at all well. 

My brother continues to practise nearly total ab- 
stinence from animal food. I have seen him but 
once in two and a half years, but learn his health 
has greatly improved so that he was able to take 
.charge of a high school in. the fall of 1836, of an 
Academy in the spring of the. present year, and 
also again this fall. During his vacation last July, 
he took a tour into the interior of Worcester county, 
Mass., and came home entirely on foot by way of the 
Notch of the White Hills, travelling nearly three 
hundred miles. This speaks something in favor of 
rigid abstinence — as when he commenced this 
regimen he wa^ extremely low. 

Yours sincerely, H. A. Barrows. 



LETTER II. PROM DR. JOHN M. B. HARDEN. 

• - . ■ 

Georgia, Liberty Co., Oct. 19, 1837. 

Dear Sir, — I stated in my letter to Dr. North,, 
if I recollect correctly, that the use of animal food 
was resumed in consequence Of a protracted indis- 
position brought on, as was supposed, by the inhala- 
tion of araeniuretted hydrogen gas. The genUeman 
had begun to recover some time previously ; and in 
a short time after he commenced the use of the 



DR. HARDEN. 63 

animy fbod, he was restoced to his usual health. 
He has contiaue'd the use of it ever since to the 
same extent as in the former part of his life. He 
has lately passed his fifty-fifth year, and is now in 
the enjoyment of as good health as he has ever 
known. 

I know of a gentleman in an adjoining county, 
who with his lady has been living for some time 
past on a purely vegetable diet. They have not 
continued it long -enough, however, to make the ex- 
periment a fair one. 

No case of injury from the inhalation of arseniu- 
retted hydrogen has come under my own personal 
observation, if we except the one above alluded, to. 
I .find, however, that Geblen, a celebrated French 
chemist, fell a victim to it in the year 1815. His 
death is thus announced in the "Philosophical 
Magazine " for that year. " We lamont to have to 
announce the death of Gehlen, many years the 
editor of an excellent Journal on Chemistry and 
other sciences, and a profound chemist. He fell a 
victim to his ardent desire to promote the advance- 
ment of chemical knowledge. He was preparing, in 
company with Mr. Rehland, . his colleague, some 
arsenated hydrogen gas, and whilst watching for the 
full development of this air from its acid solution, 
trying every moment to judge from its particular 
smell when that operation would be completed, he 
inhaled the fatal poison which has robbed science 
of his valuable services." Vide Tillock's Phil. Mag. 
vol. 46, p. 316. Some further notice is iSken of 
his death in a paper extracted from the " Annales 



6i. VEGETABLE DIET. 

de Chimie et de Physiqne/' and published in a 
aufaaequent volume of the same Magazine. Tide voL 
49, p. 280, in which are given his last' experiments on 
that subject, by M. Gay Lussac. I regret that no 
account is given in the same work of the'symptoms 
arising from the poison in his case. I presume, 
hi>wever, they are on record. 

In the subject of the case I mention, the general 
and prominent symptoms were an immediate and 
great diminution of muscular strength, with pallor 
of countenance and constant febricula, the arteries 
of the head beating with violence particularly when 
lying down at night, the pulse alwa3rs moderately 
increased in frequency, and full, but not tense ; and 
digestion £>r the most part good. This state con- 
tinued for about three months, during which time 
he was att^ding to his usual business, although not 
able to take lus much exercise as before. At the 
end of this time he began to recover slowly, but it 
was six nM>nths before he was restored entirely. 
Yours, <S6c. John M. B. Harden. 



LETTER III.— -FROM DR. K)SHUA PORTER. 

North Brookfield, Oct. 26, 1827. 

Though I would by no means favor the pro^ 
pensity for book-making, so prevalent in our day, 
yet I have been long of the opinion that a work 
en vegetable diet for general readers was greatly 
needed. I need it in my family ; and there are 



DR. PORTER. 65 

many others in this vicinity who would be mate- 
rially benefited by such a work. 

I have had no means of ascertaining the good 
or bad effects of a " diet exclusively vegetable in 
cases of phthisis, scrofula and dyspepsia," for I have 
had none of the above diseases to contend with. But, 
since your letter was received, I have been called to 
prescribe for a man who has been a fiesh eater for 
more than half a century. He was confined to his 
house, had been losing strength for several months, 
still keeping up his old habits. The disease which 
was preying upon him was chronic inflammation of 
the right leg; the fiesh had been so long swollen 
and inflamed that it had become hard to the touch. 
There were ulcers on his thigh, and some had made 
their appearance on the hip. This disease had been 
of seven months^ standing, though not in so aggra- 
vated form aj5 it now appeared. During this time 
all the local applications had been made that could 
be thought of by the good ladies in the neighboir 
hood ; and after every thing of the kind had failed, 
they concluded to send for " the doctor." 

After examining the patient attentively, I became 
tsonvinced that the disease which developed itself 
locally was of a constitutional origin, and of course 
not to be cured by local remedies. All local appli- 
cations were discontinued, the patient was put on a 
vegetable diet after the alimentary canal was freely 
evacuated. I saw this man three days afterwards. 
The dark purple appearance of the leg had somewhat 
subsided ; the red and angry appearance about the 
base of the ulcers was gone^^ his strength improved, 

6» 



66 TEGBTABLE DIET. 

tec Three days after I called, I found him in his 
garden at work. 

He is now — two weeks since my first prescription 
-—almost well. All the ulcers have healed, with the 
exception of one or two.. This man, who thinks it 
wiclred not to use the good things God has given 
us, such as meat, cider, tobacco, &c. is very willing 
to subsist, for the present, on vegetable food, because 
he finds it the only remedy for his disease. 

Early in the spring of 1830, while a student at 
Amherst College, I was attacked with dyspepsia, 
which rendered my life wretched for more than a 
year, and finally drove me from college — but it had 
now so completely gained the mastery that no means 
I resorted to for relief afforded even -a palliation of 
my sufferings. After I had suffered nearly two 
years in this way, I was made more wretched, if 
possible, by frequent attacks of colic, with pains 
and cramps extending to my back ; and so severe had 
these pains become, that the prescriptions of the 
most eminent physicians afforded only partial relief. 

On the 13th of February, 1833, after suffering 
from the most violent paroxysm I had ever endured^ 
I left my home for Brunswick, Maine, to attend a 
course of medical lectures. For several days I 
boarded at a public house, and ate freely of several 
substantial dishes that were before me. The con- 
sequence was a fresh attack of cohc. From some 
circumstances that came up at this time, I was eon- 
vinced that flesh meats had much to do with my 
sufferings, and the resolution was formed at once to 
change my diet and <' starve " out dyspepsia* 



DB. PORTKR* 67 

I took a room by myself, and made arrangements 
for receiving a pint of milk per day ; this, with coarse 
rye and Indian bread, constituted my only food. 
After living in this way a week or two, I had a 
free and natural evacuation. Thus nature began to 
effect what medicine alone had done for nearly three 
years. The skin became moist, and my voracious 
appetite began to subside. I returned home to my 
friends at the close of the term weU, and have been 
well ever since— «• have never had a colic pain or 
any costiveness since that time. — My. powers of 
digestion are good, and though I do not live so rigid- 
ly now as when at Brunswick, I alwajrs feel best 
when my food is vegetables and milk. I can en- 
dure fatigue and exposure as well as any man. On 
this mild diet, too, my muscular strength has con- 
siderable increased ; and every day is adding new 
vigor to my constitution. 

Having experienced so much benefit from a mild 
diet, and being rationally convinced that man was 
a fruit-eating aniinal naturally, I made my views 
public by a course of lectures on physiology, which 
I delivered in the Lyceum soon after I came to this 
place (three years ago.) The consequence was, that 
quite a number of those who heard my lectures 
commenced training their families as well as them- 
selves to the use of vegetables, &c., and I am happy 
to inform you that, at this day, many of our most 
active influential business-doing men are living in 
the plainest and most simple manner. 

One of my neighbors has taken no flesh for more 
than three years. He is of the ordinary height, 



68 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and sanguine temperament, and usually weighed, 
when he aje flesh, one hundred and eighty pounds. 
After he changed his diet, his countenance began to 
change, and his cheeks fell in ; and bis meat-eating 
friends had serious apprehensions tbat he would sur- 
vive but a short time, unless he returned to his 
former habits. But he persevered, and is now more 
vigorous and more athletic Ihan any man in the re- 
gion, or than he himself has ever been before. 

His muscular strength is very great. A few 
days since, a number of the most athletic young 
men in our village were trying their strength at 
lifting a cask of lime, weighing five hundred 
pounds. All failed to do it, with the exception of one, 
who partly raised it from the ground. After they 
were gone, this vegetable eater without any diffi- 
culty raised the cask four or five times. More than 
three years ago this man lost his daughter, who 
fell a prey to cholera infantum ; he has now a 
daughter rather more than a year old, whom he has 
trained on strictly physiological principles ; and 
though very feeble at birth, and for three months 
subsequently, she is now the most healthy child in 
the town. This child had some of the first symp- 
toms of consumption last August, owing to the too 
free indulgence of the mother in improper articles 
of food 5 but being treated with demulcents, at the 
same .time correcting the mother's system, she re- 
covered, and is now the " picture of health." 

I was conversing with this gentleman the other 
day respecting his health — says he is perfectly 
wbU, weighs 166 pounds ; and though he was called 



DlEt. KNIGHT. 69 

well when eating flesh, he was not so in reality ; for 
every few weeks he was troubled with head-ache 
utid a sense of fulness in the region of the stomach, 
for which he was obliged to take an active cathartic. 
For a fe\^ months before he adopted the vegeta- 
ble system, he had decided symptoms of congestion 
in the. head, such as precede apoplexy. I ques- 
tioned him as to his appetite. He informed me that 
when he ate meat, he had such an unconquerable 
desire for* food about eleven o'clock that he could 
not wait till noon. This he calls " meat hunger," 
for it disappeared soon after he came to the present 
style of living. He has no craving now ; but when 
he begins to eat, the zest is exquisite. 

Yours, Joshua PorteRc 



LETTER IV.— -from DR. N. J. KNIGHT, OP TRURO. 

Dated at Truro, October, 1837. 

Dr. Alcott, — Sir, — I hasten to comply so fer 
with your request as to show my decided approba- 
tion of a fruit and farinaceous diet, both in health 
and sickness. The manner in which nutritious 
vegetables are presented to us for our consumption 
and support, evince to a demonstration the simpli- 
city of our corporeal systems. Through every 
medium of correct information, we learn that the 
most distinguished men, both in ancient and modem 
times, were pre-eminently distinguished for their als 
stemiousness, and the simplicity of their diet. 



70 VEGETABLE P'lET. 

It was not, however, a consideration of this kind 
that first induced me to relinquish flesh meat and 
fish. Some three years previous to my forming a 
determination to subsist upon farinacea, I had been 
laboring under an aggravated case of dysj^psia ; and 
about six months previous, also, an attack of acute 
rheumatism; 

I was harassed with constant constipation of the 
bowels, and ejection of food after eating, together 
with occasional pain in the head. 

Under all these circumstances, I came to this 
determination, which I committed to paper : " No- 
vember 9, 1831. This day ceased from strengthen- 
ing this mortal body by any part of that which ever 
drew breath." To the above I rigidly adhered, until 
last November, when my health had become so per- 
fect that I thought myself invincible, so far as dis- 
ease was concerned. All pains and aches had left 
me, and all the functions of the body seemed to be 
performed in a healthy manner. 

My diet had consisted of rye and Indian bread, 
stale flour bread, sweet bread without shortening, 
milk, some ripe fruit, and occasionally a little butter. 

During this time, while I devoted myself to con- 
siderable laborious practice, and hard study, there 
was no deficiency of muscular strength or mental 
energy. I am fully satisfied my mind was never so 
active and strong. 

Since last November I have, at times, taken ani- 
mal food, in order that I might be absolutely satisfied 
that my mode of living acted decidedly in favor of 
my perfect health, and that a different course would 
produce organic derangement. 



DR. KNIGHT. 71 

t had only taken anioial food about two months 
after the usual custom, before I had a* severe attack, 
and only escaped an inflanunatory fever by the most 
rigid anti-phlpgistic treatment 

I again, liyed as I ought, and felt well ; and having 
continued so some time, I resorted the second 
time to an animal diet. 

In two months time, I was taken with' the urtica- ' 
ria febrilis, of Bateman, which lasted me more than 
two weeks, and my suffering was sufficient to for- 
ever exclude from my stomach every kind of animal 
food. 

I am now satisfied, to all intents and purposes, 
that mankind would live longer, and enjoy more 
perfectly the <' sane mind in a sound body," shouM 
they never taste flesh meat or fish. 
. A simple farinaceous diet I have ever found more 
efficient in the cure of chronic complaints, where 
there was not much organic lesion, than every 
other medical agent. 

Mrs. A., infected with scrofula of the left breast, 
and in a state of ulcera ion, applied to me two years 
since. The ulcer was then the size of a half dollar, 
and discharged a considerable quantity of imperfect 
pus. The axillary glands were much enlarged, and, 
doubting the practicabili y of operating with the 
knife in such cases, I told her the danger of her 
disease, and ordered her to subsist upon bread 
and milk and some fruit, drink water, and keep 
the body bf as uniform temperature as possible. 
I ordered the sore to be kept clean by ablutions 
of tepid water. In tess than three months, the ulceir 



72 VEOEl^ABLE DIET. 

was all healed, and her general health pinch im* 
proved. The axillary glands are still enlarged, 
though less so than formerly. 

She still lives simply, and enjoys good health ; bat 
she tells me if she tastes flesh meat, it produces a*' 
twinging in the breast. 

Many cases, like the above, have come under my 
observation and immediate attention, and suffice it 
to say, I. have. never failed to ameliorate the con-, 
dition of every individual .that hajs applied to me, 
who was suffering^under chronic affections, if they 
would follow my prescriptions — unless the sys- 
tem was incapable of reaction. 

Yours, truly, N. J. Knight. 



. LETTER V. FROM DR. LESTER KJEP. 

Fair Haven, Jan. 22, 1838. 

Dear Siii, — Agreeably to your request, I will 
inform you that from September, 1834 to June 1836, 
I used no meat at all) except occasionally in my 
intercourse with society, I used a little to avoid 
attracting notice. 

When I commenced, my studies, life was burthen- 
some. I knew not, for months, and I may say years; 
.what enjo3rment comfortable health affords. In a 
great many ways I can now see that I very greatly 
erred in my course of living. .1 am surprised that 
the sjrstem will hold out in its powers during so 
long a process in the use of w^t I lAouId now 
consider the jneans best calculated to break it down. 



DR. KBEP. 73 

I cannot now particularisse. Bat in college, and 
during my provisional studies, and since, during 
six or eight years of practice in an arduous profess- 
ion, I have been greatly guilty, and neglected thosi 
means best calculated to promote and preserve 
health ; and used those means best fitted to destroy 
it. The summers of 1832, 1833 and 1834, were 
pretty much lost, from wretched health. I was 
growing worse every year,, and no medicines that I 
could prepare for myself or that were prescribed by 
various brother physicians, had anything more than 
a temporary effect to relieve me. All of the year 
1834, until September, I used opium for relief; and I 
used three and four grains of sulphate of morphine 
per day, equal to about sixteen grains of opium. 
Sprit, wine and ale I had tried, and journeys 
through many portions of the State of Maine, with 
the hope that a more northern climate would invig- 
orate and restore a system that I feared was broken 
down forever, and that at the age of 37. But, 
without ^further preamble, I will say, I omitted at 
once and entirely the use of tea, coffee, meat, butter, 
grease of all sorts, cakes, pies, &c., wine, cider, 
spirits, opium (which I feared I must use as long as I 
lived) and tobacco, the use of which I learned in 
college. Of course, from so sudden and so great a* 
change, a most horrid condition must ensiie for 
many days, for the relief of which 1 used the 
warm bath at first several times a day. I had set 
no time to omit these articles, and nmde no resolu- 
tions, except to ^ve this course a trial, to find 

out whether I had many native powers of system 

7 



74 TBGBTABLB DIBT. 

Iftfti and what was their character aud condition 
when unaflbcted by the list of agents mentioned. 

I pursued this plan of living faithfully for one 
year and a half, and with unspeakable joy I found 
a gradual return of original vigor and health. Now, 
I cannot say that the omission of meat of all kinds, 
for a year and a half, caused this improvement in 
health; it is possible that it had but little to do 
with it. I know I was guilty of many bad habits ; 
and probably, all combined, caused my bad condition. 

At the close of the year and a half, I married my 
present second wife, and then commenced living as 
do others, in most respects, and continued this course 
most of the time until I received your letter. I then 
again omitted the use of all animal food, tea, coffee 
and tobacco ; and for the last month, it is a clear 
case, my health is better ; that is, more vigorous to 
bear cold. I also bear labor and care better. 

I have not investigated the subject of dietetics 
very much, but I have no doubt that the inhabitants 
of our whole laud make too much use of animal 
food. No doubt it obstructs the vital powers, aud 
tends to unbalance the healthful play and harmony 
of the various organs and their functions. There 
is too much nutriment in a small space. An unex- 
pected quantity is taken ; for with most people a 
sense of fullness is the test of a sufficient quantity. 

I am satisfied that I am better without animal 
food than with the quantity I ordinarily use. If I 
should use but a small quantity once or twice a 
day, it is possible it would not be injurious. This 
I have not tried ; for I am so excessively fond of 



DR. KEEP. 76 

meat, that I alwajrs eat more than a small quantity, 
when I eat it at all. Healthy, vigorous men, day 
laborers in the field, or forest, may perhaps require 
some meat to sustain the system, during bard and 
exhausting labor. Of this I cannot say. 

I am now pretty well convinced, from two or 
three years' observation, that a large portion of my 
business, as a physician, arises from intemperance 
in the use of food. Too much and too rich nu- 
triment is used, and my constant business is, to 
counteract its bad effects. 

Two cases are now in mind of the great benefit 

of dieting for the recovery of health, the particulars 

of which I cannot now give you. One of them I 

think would be willing to speak for himself on the 

subject. . 

I am, sir, yours, &c. Lester Keep. 



LETTER VI. — SECOND LETTER FROM DR. KEEP. 

Fair Haven, Ct., Jan. 96, 183a 

Sir, — Since I wrote you, a few days ago, I have 
learned of several individuals who have, for some 
length of time, used no flesh meat at all. 

Amos Townsend, Cashier of the New Haven Bank, 
has, as I am told, lived almost entirely upon bread, 
crackers, or something of that kind, and but little of 
that He can dictate a letter, count money, and 
hold conversation with an individual, all at the same 



76 VEGETABLE DIET. 

timbt untfi no embarrassmeQt ; and I know him to 
hare fim health. 

Our minister, Rer. B. L. Swan, during the whole 
of two years of his theological studies at Princeton, 
made crackers and water his only food, and was in 
good health. 

Mr. Hanover Bradley, of this village, who has been 
several years a missionary among the Indians, has, 
for, I think, eight or ten years, Uved entirely on 
vegetable food. He had been long a dyspeptic. 

There are some other cases of less importance, 
lOid probably very many in New Haven ; but I am 
flkuftted a mile from the city, and have never in- 
quired for vegetable livers. 

Yours, &c. Lester Keep. 



LETTER VII. —FROM DR. HENRY H. BROWN. 

West Randolph, Vt., Feb. 3, 1838, 

Dear Sir, — It has been about two years and a 
half since I adopted an exclusive vegetable diet, with 
no drink but water ; and my food has been chiefly 
pr^)ared by the most simple forms of cookery. Pre- 
vioasly to this, I used a large proportion of flesh 
meat, and drank tea and coffee. I had much im- 
paiied my health by such indulgencies. I hardly 
liflfid lo aay Aat my health has been greatly im- 
proved, and is now quite good and uniform. 

I Aink that physieians, in prescribing for the re- 
1IDT«L lof disease^ should pay much more regard to 



DR. KNOX. — FROM A PHYSICIAN. 77 

the diet of their patients, and administer less of pow- 
erful medicine, than is customary with gentlemen of 
this profession, at large. 

Yours, &c. Henrt H. Brown. 



LETTER VIII. — ^TROM DR. FRANKLIN KNOX. 

Kinston,* N. G^ Jane 33, 1837. 

Dear Sir, — Your letter of the 22d July has 
been hitherto unanswered, through press of business. 

I consider an exclusive vegetable diet as of the 
utmost consequence in most diseases, especially in 
those chronic affections or morbid states of the 
system which are not commonly considered as 
diseases; and I think, that, in these cases, such a 
diet is too often overlooked, even by physicians. 

Yours, truly, F. Knox. 



LETTER IX. — FROM A HIGHLY RESPECTABLE 

PHYSICIAN. 

[The following letter, received last autumn, is 
from a medical gentleman, in a distant part of the 
country, whose name, for particular reasons, we 
stand pledged not to give to the world. The facts, 
however, may be relied on ; and they are exceeding- 
ly important and interesting.] 

* Dr. Knox has since removed to St Louis, Missouri. 
7* 



78 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Dear StR,— -Tour letter was duly received. I 
prooead to say that, since I settled in this town, my 
attacks of epilepsy* have occurred in the following 
order:— 

1834. 
Nov. 18. One at 11 P. M. Severe. 

ti 19. It u a 

" 24. Nineteen, from 4 A. M.to 3 P. M. Frightful. 

1835. 
Jan. 13. One at 4 A. M. ^ 

<< 16. « « (Milder. 

" 16. Two at 2 and 4 A. M. ) 

Thus it appears that I have enjoyed a longer im- 
munity since the last, than for some years prior. I 
have maintained total abstinence from flesh, fish, or 
fowl, for two and a half years, narbely, from March 
^835 to the present time. That this happy immu- 
nity from a most obstinate disease is to be attributed 
solely to my abstinence from animal food, I do not 
feel prepared to assert; but that my general health 
has been better, my attacks of disease far milder, my 
vigor of mind and body greater, my mental percep- 
tions clearer and more acute, and my enjoyment of 
life, on the whole, very essentially increased, I am 
fully prepajed to prove. 

; I have, however, found it nearly as essential for 
iwe to abstain from many kinds of vegetable food as 
from animal^ viz.j from all kinds of flatulent vegeta- 
Uw ; from all kinds of fruits and berries, except the 

• The reader will find another remarkable cure of epilepsy in a 
snbsequeDtchi^pUurofthiaToliHQe.. Thecn^e was that oCPr. Tay- 
lor, of England.. . 



adC^it'ional statbhbnts. 79 

very mildest— -as, perfectly ripe and well baked 
sweet apples — and from all kinds of pies^ saucee, 
and preserves. Of these, however, 1 am not able to 
say, as I do of the animal varieties, that I have 
practised total abstinence ; by no . means. I have 
often ventured to indulge, and generally suflfer more 
or less for my temerity. My severest sufferings for 
the last two years have been in the form of colic, 
of which I have had frequent slight attacks; but 
none to confine me over twenty-four hours. 



ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS. — BY THE AUTHOR.* 



From the age of five or six months to that o( 
two years, I was literally crammed with fliesh meat ; 
usually of the most gross kind. Such a course 
was believed, by the fond parents and others, as 
likely to be productive of the most healthful and 
happy consequences. The result was an accumula- 
tion of adipose substance, that rendered me one of 
the most unsightly, not to say monstrous produc- 
tions of nature. I ought not to say nature, perhaps ; 
for, if not perverted, she produces no such mon- 
sters. At the age of six months, -my weight was 
twenty-five pounds; and it rose soon after to 
thirty or more. 

When I was about two years of i^, I had the 
whooping-cough, and, having been brought np to the 

* See pages 1 and 13. 



80 VEGETABLE DIET. ^ 

height, and more than the height of my condition, by 
over-feeding with fa{ meat, I sufSsred exceedingly. I 
recovered, at length, but I had lost my relish, as I 
am informed, for flesh meat; and from this time 
till the age of fourteen, I seldom ate any but the 
leanest muscle. I was tolerably healthy, but, from 
the age of two years, was slender ; so much so 
that, at five or six, I only weighed fifty pounds; 
and was constantly either found fault with, or pitied, 
because I did not eat meat in quality and quantity 
like other people. Nor was it without much effort, 
even at the age of fourteen, that I could bring my- 
self to be reconciled to it. I was also trained to the 
early use of much cider, and to the moderate use 
of tea and spirits. I have spoken of my slender 
constitution ; — I believe this was in part the result 
of excessive early labor, and that it was not wholly 
owing to a premature use of flesh meat. 

I had suffered so much, however, from the belief 
that I was feeble from the latter cause, that I had no 
sooner become reconciled to the use of flesh and fish 
— which was at the age of fourteen — than I in- 
dulged in it quite freely. About this time came on 
an attack of general dropsy, from which, with great 
difficulty, J recovered. I also had a severe attack of 
the measles,' which, in its turn, came very near 
carrying me off. These two complaints, or the mer- 
cury, digitalis, and other poisons used in endeavor- 
ing to effect a cure, left me with an eruptive disease, 
peculiarly troublesome in hot weather, and with 
weak eyes. 

The eruptive complaint was soon discovered to be 



ADDITIONAL STATEMKNTS. 81 

less severe, even in hot weather, and while I was 
using a great deal of exercise, in proportion as I ab- 
stained from all drinks but water, and ate none but 
mild food. Owing to the discovery of this fact and 
to other causes, I chiefly discontinued the use of 
stimulating food and drink, during the hottest part 
of the season ; though I committed much error in re- 
gard to the quantity of my food, and drank quite too 
freely of cold water. Still I always found my health 
best, and my body and mind most vigorous at the 
end of summer, or the beginning of autumn, not- 
withstanding the very hard labor to which I was 
subjected on the &rm. This increase of vigor was, 
at that time, attributed chiefly to a free use of 
summer fruits ; for, so deeply had the bdief been 
infixed by early education, that highly stimulating 
food and drink were indispensable to the full health 
and strength of mankind, and especially to people 
who were laboring hard, that, though I sometimes 
suspected they were not true friends to the human 
system, my conscience always condemned the ' sus- 
.picion, and pronounced me guilty of a species of 
high treason for harboring it 

This brings up my dietetic history, to the period 
at which it commences, in the letter to Dr. North. 
The study of medicine, however, from the age of 
twenty-four to twenty-seven, and the subsequent 
study and practice of it for a few years, joined to 
the changes I made at the same time in my phjrsical 
habits, and my observations on their eflects, led me 
to reject, one after another, and one group after 
another, the whole tribe q[ extra stimulants — solid 
and fluid. 



i 



82 VfiGETABLE DIET. 

The sequel of my history remains to be told. 
Nearly three years and a half have elapsed since 
the date of my letter to Dr. North, and the results 
of my experiment are by no means less interesting 
than those of the former period. 

For the last four years, or nearly four years, I 
have not only abstained from flesh and fish — not 
having eaten half a pound of both during the whole 
time — but I have used but little butter, cheese, or 
milk. For some time past, I have discarded butter 
entirely, and cheese almost entirely. The occasion- 
al use of milk, in very small quantities, once a day, 
has, however, been resorted to ; not from necessity, 
indeed, or to gratify any strong desire or inclination 
for it, but from a conviction of its happy medicinal 
effects on my much-injured frame. Hot food of 
every kind, and liquids, with the exception just 
made, I rarely touch. Nearly every thing is taken 
in as solid a form and in as simple state as possible ; 
with no condiments, except a very little salt, and 
with* no sweets, sauces, gravies, jellies, preserves, 
&c. I seldom use more than one sort of food at a 
time, unless it be to add fruit as a second article ; 
and this is rarely done, except in the morning. I 
have for a year and a half used no drinks with my 
meals ; and for some months past, have had very 
little thirst at all ; and have seldom drank anything. 

And as to the effects, they are such, and have all 
along been such, as to make me wonder at myself, 
whenever I think of it. Instead of being constantly 
subject to cold, and nearly dying with consumption 
in die spring, I am almost free from any tendency 



ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS. 83 

to take cold at all. During the last winter, by 
neglecting to keep the temperature of my room low 
enough, and by neglecting also to take sufficient 
exercise in the open air, I became unqsually tender 
and suffered to some extent from colds. But I have 
been well again during the spring, and now feel as 
if I had recovered or nearly recovered my former 
hardihood. 

In regard to other complaints, I may say still 
more. Of rheumatism, I have scarcely had a twinge 
in many years. My eruptive complaint is, I believOi 
entirely gone. The weakness of my eyes has been 
wholly gone for many years. Indeed, the strength 
and perfection of my sight and of all my senses, 
(though about forty years of age,) hearing perhaps 
excepted, in which I perceive no alteration — has 
appeared to be constantly improving for many years. 
My stomach and intestines perform their respective 
duties in the most appropriate, correct, and healthful 
manner. My appetite is constantly good, and as 
constantly improving ; — that is, going on toward 
perfection. I can detect, both by smell and taste, 
almost anything which is in the least offensive or 
deleterious in food or drink ; and yet I can receive, 
without immediate apparent disturbance, and readily 
digest, almost any thing which ever entered a hu- 
man' stomach — knives, pencils, clay, chalk, (fcc. per- 
haps excepted. I can eat a full meal of cabbage, or 
any other very objectionable crude aliment, or even 
cheese or paste — ^a single meal, I mean — with ap- 
parent impunity ; not when fatigued, of course, oc 
in any Wiay debilitated, but in the morning and 



84 VSOETABLE DIET. 

when in full strength. It is true, I make no expe- 
riments of this sort, except occasionally ns ex- 
periments. 

In my former statements I gave it as my opinion 
that vegetable food was less aperient than animal. 
My opinion now is, that if we were trained on 
vegetable food, and had never received subtances 
into the stomach which were unduly stimulating, 
we should find the intestinal or peristaltic action 
qaite sufficient. The apparent sluggishness of the 
bowels, when we first exchange an animal diet for 
a vegetable one, is probably owing to our former 
abuses. At present, I find my plain vegetable food, 
in moderate and reasonable quantity, quite as ape- 
rient as it ought to be, and, if I exceed a proper 
quantity, too much so. 

I have now no remaining doubts of the vast 
importance that would result to mankind, from an 
universal training from childhood, to the exclusive 
use of vegetable food. I believe such a course of 
training, along with a due attention to air, exercise, 
cleanliness, &c., would be the means of improving 
our race, physically, intellectually arid morally, 
beyond any thing of which the world has yet con- 
ceived. But my reasons for this belief will be seen 
more fully in another place. They are founded in 
science and the observation of facts around me, much 
more than on a narrow individual experience. 

There is one circumstance which I must not 
omit, because it is full of admonition and instruc- 
tion. I have elsewhere stated tha^ twelve years ligo, 
I had incipient phthisis. Of this &ct, and of the 



ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS. 89. 

fact that there were considerable inroads made by 
disease on the upper lobe of the right lung, I haire 
not the slightest doubt. The symptoms were snch at 
the time, and subsequently, as could not have beea 
mistaken. Besides, what was, as I conceive, pretty 
fully established, by the symptoms which existed, 
is rendered still more certain by auscultation. The 
soilnds which are heard during respiration, in the 
region to which I have alluded, leave no doubt on 
the minds of skilful medical men, of their origin. 
Still I doubt whether the disease has made any 
considerable progress for many years. 

But, during the winter before last, my employ- 
ments became excessively laborious; and, for the 
whole winter and spring, were sufficient for at least 
two healthy and strong men. They were also 
almost wholly sedentary. At the end of May, I 
took a long and rather fatiguing journey through a 
country by no means the most healthy, and came 
home somewhat depressed in mind and body, espe- 
cially the former. I was also unusually emaciated, 
and I began to have fears of a decline. Still, how- 
ever, my appetite was good, and I had a good share 
of bodily strength. The more I directed my atten- 
tion to myself, the worse I became ; and 1 actually 
began soon to experience darting pains in the chest, 
together with other symptoms of a renewal of pul- 
monary disease. Perceiving my danger, however, 
from the state of my mind, I at length made a pow- 
erful effort to shake off the mental disturbance — 
which succeeded. This, together with moderate 
labor and rather more exercise than before, seenaeA 
8 



86 VEGETABLE DIET. 

gradually to set me right ; and I have now been, 
(May 1838,) for six or eight months, as well as I ever 
was in my life, except the slight tendency to cold 
during the winter of which I have already taken 
notice. I never was naore cheerful or more happy ; 
never saw the world in a brighter aspect; never 
before was it more truly "morning all day" with 
me. I have paid, in part, the penalty of my trans- 
gressions, of the winter before last ; and may, per- 
haps, go on, in hfe, many years longer. 

I now fear nothing in the future, so far as health 
and disease are concerned, so much as excessive 
alimentation. To this evil — and it is a most seri- 
rious and common one in this land of abundance 
and busy activity — I am much exposed, both from 
the keenness of my appetite, and the exceeding rich- 
ness of the simple vegetables and fruits of which I 
partake. But, within a short time past, I seem to. 
have gotten the victory, in a good measure, even in 
this respect. By eating only one or two things 
at a time, usually only one, and by measuring or 
weighing them with the eye — fof I weigh them in 
no other way — I afti usually able to confine myself 
to nearly the proper limits. 

This caution, and these eiforts at self-government 
are not needed because their neglect involves an 
immediate suffering ; for, as I have already stated, 
there was never a period in my life before, when I 
was so completely independent — ^apparently so, I 
mean — of external circumstances. I can eat what 
I please, and as much or as Uttle as I please. I can 
observe set hour;?, or be very irregular. I can use 



ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS. 87 

a pretty extensive variety at the same mealy and a 
still greater variety at different meals^ or I can lire 
perpetually on a single article — nay, on almost any 
thing whiclr could be named in the animal or vege- 
table kingdom — and be perfectly contented and 
hdppy in the use of it. 1 can, in short, eat all the 
while, work all the while, think all the while, sleep 
all the while, converse all the while, or play all the 
while ; or I can abstain from any of these, almost all 
the while. Let me be understood, however. I do 
not mean to say that either of these courses would be 
best for me, in the end ; but only that I have so fiff 
attained to independence of external circumstances 
that, for a time, I believe I am able to do or bear all 
I have mentioned. 

0ne thing more, in this connexion, and I shall 
have finished my remarks. I sleep too little ; but it 
is because I allow my mind to run over the world so 
much, and lay so many schemes for human im- 
provement or for human happiness ; and because I 
allow my sympathies to become so deeply enlisted in 
human suffering and human wo. I should be most 
healthy^ in the end, by spending six hours or more 
in sleep ; whereas I do not probably much exceed 
five. I have indeed obtained a respite from the 
grave of twelve years, through a partial repentance 
and amendment of life, and the mercy of God ; but 
did I obey all His laws as well as I do a part of 
them, I know of no reason why my life might not 
be lengthened, not merely fifteen years, as was Hez- 
ekiah's, but forty or fifty. 



CHAPTER V. 



TESTIMONY OP OTHER MEDICAL MEN, BOTH OP 
ANCIENT AND MODERN TIMES. 



General Remarks. Testimony of Dt. Chejme. Dr. Geoffroy. 
Vanquelin and Percy. Dr. Pemberton. Sir John Sinclair. Dr. 
James. Dr. Cranstonn. Dr. Taylor. Drs. Hofeland and 
Abemethy. Sir Gilbert Blane. Dr. Gregory. Dr. CuUen; Dr. 
Rush. Dr. Lamb. Prof. Lawrence. Dr. Salgaes. Author of 
"Sure Methods." Baron Cuvier. Dr. Luther V. Bell. Dr. 
Buchan. Dr.Whitlaw. Dr. Clark. Pfof. Mnssey. Drs.»Bell 
and Condie. Dr. J. V. C. Smith. Mr. Graham. Dr. J. M. An- 
drews, Jr. Dr. Sweetser. Dr. Pierson. Physician in New York, 
l^emales' Encyclopedia. Dr. Van Cooth. Dr. Beaumont. Sir 
Everard Home. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

The number of physicians, and surgeons, and 
medical men, whose testimony is brought to bear on 
the subject of diet, in the chapter which follows, is 
by no means as great as it might have been. There 
aro few writers on anatomy, physiology, materia 
medica, or disease, who have not, either directly or 
indirectly, given their testimony in favor of a mild 
and vegetable diet for persons affected with certain 
chronic diseases. And there is scarcely a writer on 
hygiene, or even on diet, who has not done much 



GENERAL REMARKS. 89 

more than this, and at times hinted at the safety of 
such a diet for those who are in health ; particular- 
ly the studious and sedentary. But my object has 
been, not so much to collect all the evidence I 
could, as to make a judicious selection — a selection 
which should present the subject upon which it 
bears, in as many aspects as possible. I have aimed 
in general, also, to procure the testimony of intelli- 
gent and philanthropic men ; or, at kast of men 
whose names have by some means or other been 
already brought before the public. If there are a 
few exceptions to this rule, if a few are men whose 
names have been hitherto unknown, it is on account 
of the aspect, as I have already said, of their testi- 
mony, or on account of their peculiar position, as 
regards country, age of the world, <fcc., or to secure 
their authority for certain anecdotes or facts. 

In the arrangement of the testimony, I have been 
guided by no particular rule, unless it has been to 
present first that of some of the older and most ac- 
credited writers, such as Cheyne, Cullen, and Rush. 
The testimony of certain living men and authors, 
particularly of our own country, has been presented 
towards the close of the chapter, and in a very brief 
and condensed form, from design. The propriety of 
inserting their names at all was for a time consid- 
ered doubtful. It is believed, however, that they 
could not, in strict justice, have been entirely 
omitted. But let not this meagre sketch of their 
views I have given, satisfy us. We want a full 
development of their principles from their own 
pens — such a development as, I hope, will not long 
8* 



9Q VEGETABLE DIET. 

be withheld from a world which is famishing for the 
want of it. — But now to the testimony. 

DR. GEORGE CHEYNE. 

This distinguished physician, and somewhat 
voluminous writer, flourished more than an hundred 
years ago. He may justly be esteemed the father 
of what is now called the "vegetable system" of 
living ; although it is evident he did not see every 
thing clearly. "In the early part of his life," says 
Prof Hitchcock, in his work on Dyspepsia, "he 
was a voluptuary ; and before he attained to middle 
age, was so corpulent that it was necessary to open 
the whole side of his carriage that he might enter ; 
and he saw death inevitable, without a change of 
his course. He immediately abandoned all ardent 
spirits, wine, and fermented liquors, and confined 
himself wholly to milk, vegetables, and water. This 
course, with active exercise, reduced him from the 
edormous weight of four hundred and forty-eight 
pounds, to one hundred and forty; and restored tiis 
health and the vigor of his mind. After a few years, 
he ventured to change his abstemious diet for one 
more rich and stimulating. But the effect was a 
recurrence of his former corpulence and ill health. 
A return to milk, water, and v^etables restored 
him again; and he continued in uninterrupted 
health to the age of seventy-two.'^ 

The following is his account of himself at the 
«ge of about seventy. 



DR. CHETNB. 91 

"It is now about sixteen years since, for the last 
time, I entered upon a milk and vegetable diet. 
At the beginning of this period, I took this light food 
as my appetite directed, without any measure, and 
found myself easy under it. AAer some time, I 
found it became necessary to lessen the quantity; 
and I have latterly reduced it to one half, at most, 
of what I at first seemed to bear. And if it shall 
please God to spare me a few years longer, in order, 
in that case, to preserve that freedom and clearness, 
which, by his blessing, I now enjoy, I shall probably 
find myself obliged to deny myself one half of my 
present daily substance — which is precisely three 
Winchester pints of new cows' milk, and six ounces 
of biscuit made of fine flour,^ithout salt or yeast, 
and baked in a quick oven." 

It is exceedingly interesting to find an aged physi- 
cian, especially one who had formerly been in the 
habit of using six pints of milk, and twelve ounces of 
unfermented biscuit, and of regarding that as a low 
diet, reducing himself to one half this quantity in his 
old age, with evident advantages ; and cheerfully 
looking forward to a period, as not many years 
distant, when he should be obliged to restrict him- 
self to half even of that quantity. How far he final- 
ly carried his temperance, we do not exactly know. 
We only know that, after thirty years of health and 
successful medical practice, he strenuously contend- 
ed for the superiority of a vegetable and milk diet, 
over any other, whether for the feeble or the 
healthy. But his numerous works abound with the 
most earnest exhortations to temperance in all 



92 YEQETABLE DIET. 

things, and with the most interesting facts, and 
cogent reasonings; and — I repeat it — if there be 
any individual, since the days- of Pythagoras, whose 
name ought to be handed down to posterity as the 
father of the vegetable system of living, it is that of 
Dr. Cheyne. 

Among his works are, a work on Fevers; an 
Essay on the true Nature and proper Method of 
treating the Gout; a work on the Philosophical 
Principles of Religion ; an Essay of Health and Long 
Life ; a work called the English Malady; and another 
entitled the Natural Method of Cure in the Diseases 
of the Body, and the Distempers of the Mind de- 
pending thereon. The latter, and his Essay of 
Long Life -are, in r% view, his greatest Works ; 
though the history of his own experience is chiefly 
contained in his English Malady. 

I shall now proceed to make such extracts from his 
works, as seem to me most striking and important 
to the general reader. They are somewhat numer- 
ous, and there may be a few repetitions ; but I was 
more anxious to preserve his exact language — 
which is rather prolix — than to abridge too much, 
at the risk of misrepresenting his sentiments. 

"When I see milk, oil, emulsion, mild watery 
fluids, and such like soft liquors run through leath- 
ern tubes or pipeS (for such animal veins and 
arteries indeed &re) for years, without destroying 
them, and observe on the other band that brine, 
inflammable or urinous spirits, and the like '.acri- 
monious and burning fluids corrode, destroy and 



DR. CHEYNE. 93 

consume them in a very short time ; when I con- 
sider the rending, burning, and tearing pains and 
tortures of the gout, stone, colic, cancer, rheumatism, 
convulsions, and such like insufferably painful dis- 
tempers ; when I see the crises of almost all acute 
distempers happen either by rank and fetid sweats, 
thick lateritious and lixivious sediments in the 
urine, black, putrid, and fetid dejections, attended 
with livid and purple spots, corrosive ulcers, im- 
postumes iu the joints or muscles, or a gangrene 
and mortification in this or that part of the body ; 
when I see the sharp, the corroding and burning 
ichor of scorbutic and scrofulous sores, fretting, 
galling and blistering, the adjacent parts, with the 
inflammation, swelling, hardness, scabs, scurf, scales, 
and other loathsome cutaneous foulnesses that at- 
tend, the white gritty and chalky matter and hard 
stony or flinty concretions which happen to all those 
long troubled with severe gouts, gravel, jaundice, or 
colic — the obstructions and hardnesses, the putre- 
faction and mortification that happen in the bowels, 
joints, and members in some ofthese diseases, and the 
rottenness in the bones, ligaments and membranes, 
that happen in others ; all the various train of pains 
miseries and torments that can afflict any part of 
the compound, and for which there is scarce any 
reprieve to be obtained, but by swallowing a kind 
of poison (opiates, <fcc.) ; when I behold with com- 
passion and sorrow, such scenes of misery and woe, 
and see them happen only to the rich, the lazy, the 
luxurious and the inactive, those who fare daintily 
and live voluptuously, those who are furnished 



94 VEGETABLE DIET. 

with the rarest delicacies, the richest foods, and the 
most generons wines, such as can provoke the 
appetites, senses, and passions, in the most exquisite 
and voluptuous manner ; to those who leave no 
desire or degree of appetite unsatisfied, and not to 
the poor, the low, the meaner sort, those destitute 
of the necessaries, conveniences and pleasures of life ; 
to the frugal, industrious, temperate, laborious, and 
active, inhabiting barren and uncultivated countries, 
deserts and forests under the poles or under the 
line; I must, if I am not resolved to resist the 
strongest conviction, conclude that it must be some- 
thing received into the body that can produce such 
terrible appearances in it — some flagrant and no- 
table difference in the food that so sensibly distin- 
guishes them from the Jatter ; and that it is the 
miserable man himself that creates his miseries and 
begets his torture, or at least those from whom he 
has derived his bodily organs. 

Nothing is so light and easy to the stc«nach, most 
certainly, as the farinaceous or mealy vegetables ; 
such as peas, beans, millet, oats, bartey, rye, wheat, 
sago, rice, potatoes, and the like.'* ^ 

Milk is not included in the foregoing list of light 
articles ; although Dr. C.,. was evidently extremely 
fond of prescribing it in chronic diseases. It does 
not fully appear, ^so far as I can learn from his 
writings, that he regarded it as by any means indis- 
pensable to those who were perfectly healthy, except 
during infancy and childhood. The following ex- 
vill give us — more thaa any other, perhapft^ 



DR. CHETNE. 95 

his real sentiments, though modestly expressed in 
the form of a conjecture, rather than a settled beiie£ 

<'I have sometimes indulged the conjecture that 
animal food, and made or artificial liquors, in the 
original frame of our nature and design of our 
creation, were not intended for human creatures. 
They seem to me neither to have those strong and 
fit organs for digesting them, (at least such as 
birds and beasts of prey have that live on flesh ; j 
nor, naturally, to have those voracious and brutish 
appetites, that require animal food and strong liquors 
to satisfy them ; nor those cruel and hard hearts, or 
those diabolical passions, which could easily suffer 
them to tear and destroy their fellow-creatures; 
at least, not in the first and early ages, before every 
man had corrupted his way, and God was forced to 
exterminate the whole race by an universal deluge, 
and was also obliged to shorten their lives from 
nine hundred or one thousand years to seventy. 
He wisely foresaw that animal food and artificial 
liquors would naturally contribute toward this end ; 
and indulged or permitted the generation that was 
to plant the earth again after the flood the use of 
them for food ; knowing that, though it would 
shorten their lives and plait a scourge of thorns, 
for the- backs of the lazy and voluptuous, it would 
be cautiously avoided by those who knew it was 
their duty and happiness to keep their passions low, 
and their appetites in subjection. And this very 
era of the flood is that mentioned in holy writ for 
the indulgence of animal food and artificial liquors, 



96 VEGETABLE DIET. 

after the trial had been made how insufficient alone 
a vegetable diet — which was the first food appoint- 
ed for human kind after their creation — was, in 
the long lives of men, to restrain their wickedness 
and malice, and after finding that nothing but 
shortening their duration could possibly prevent the 
evil. 

It is true, there is scarce a possibility of prevent- 
ing the destroying of animal life, as things are now 
constituted, since insects breed and nestle in the 
very vegetables themselves; and we scarcely ever 
devour a plant or root, wherein we do not destroy 
innumerable animalculae. But, besides what I 
have said of nature's being quite altered and 
changed from what was originally, intended, there 
is a great difference between destroying and ex- 
tinguishing animal life by choice and election, to 
gratify our appetites, and indulge concupiscence, 
and the casual and unavoidable crushing of those 
who, perhaps, otherwise would die within the day, 
or at most the year, and who obtain but an inferior 
kind of existence and life, at the best 

Whatever there may be, in this conjecture, it is 
evident to those who understand the animal econo- 
my of the frame of human bodies, together with the 
history, both of those who have lived abstemiously, 
and of those who have lived freely, that indulging 
in flesh meat and strong liquors, inflames the pas- 
sions and shortens life, begets chronical distempers 
and a decrefnt age. 

For rdmedjring the distempers of the body, to 
make a man live as long as his original frame ,was 



DR. CHEYNE. 97 

> 

designed to last, with the least pain and fewest dis- 
eases, and without the loss of his senses, I think 
Pjrthagoms and Corn^ro by far the two greatest 
men that ever were :-^ the first, by vegetable food 
and unfermented liquors ; the latter, by the lightest 
and least of animal food, and naturally fermented 
liquors. Both lived to a great age« But, what is 
chiefly to be regarded in their conduct and example, 
both preserved their senses, cheerfulness, and se« 
renity to the last ; and, which is still more to be 
regarded, both, at least the last, dissolved without 
pain or struggle ; the first having lost - his life in a 
tumult, as it is said by some, after a great age of 
perfect health. 

A plain, natural, and philosophical reason why 
vegetable food is preferable to* all other food is, that 
abounding with few or no salts, being sofl and cool, 
and consisting of parts that are easily divided and 
formed into chyle without giving any labor to the 
digestive powers, it has not that force to open the 
lacteals, to distend their orifices and excite them to 
an unnatural activity, to Fet them pass too great a 
quantity of hot and rank chyle into the blood, and 
so overcharge and inflame the lymphatics and ca- 
pillaries, which is the natural and ordinary effect of 
animal food; and therefore cannot so readily pro- 
duce diseases. There is not a suflEicient istimulus 
in the salts and spirits of vegetable food to create 
an unnatural appetite, or violent cramming; at 
least, not sufficient to force open and extend the 
mouths of the lacteals, more than naturally they are 

or ought to be. Such food requires little or no foree 

9 



98 VEGETABLE DIET. 

of digestion, a little gentle beat and motion being 
sufficient to dissolve it into its integral particles. 
So tbat, in a vegetable diet, though the sharp hu- 
mors, in the first passages, are extended, relaxed 
stomach, and sometimes a delightful piquancy in 
the food, may tempt one to exceed in quantity ; yet 
rarely, if spices and sauces — as too much butter, 
oil and sugar ^ — are not joined to seeds * and vegeta- 
bles, can the mischief go farther; than the stomach 
and bowels, to create a pressed load, sickness, vom- 
iting or purging, by its acquiring an acrimony from 
its not being received into the lacteals ; — so that 
on more being admitted into the blood than the ex- 
penses of living require, life and health can never 
be endangered by a vegetable diet. Bqt all the 
contrary happens under a high animal diet." 

Now I will not undertake to vouch — as indeed 
I cannot, conscientiously, do it, —7 for the correctness 
of all Dr. C.'i? notions in physiology or pathology. 
The great object I have in view, by the introduction 
of these quotations, may be accomplished without it. 
His preference for vegetable food, or for what he 
calls a milk and seed diet, is the point which I wish 
to make most prominent. 

In the following paragraphs, he takes up and 
considers some of the popular objections of the day, 
to his doctrines and practice. 

" One of the most terrible objections some weak 
persons make against this regiinen and method, is, 

*Bsr seed, Dr. C. means the fBLrinaceoos gnons; wheat, oom» 
lyeydw. 



DR. CHEVNE. 99 

that upon accidental trials, they have always found 
milk, JFriiit, and vegetables so inflate, blow them up, 
ahd liaise such tumults and tempests in their stom- 
ach and bowels, that they have been terrified and 
affrighted from going on. I own the truth and fact 
to be such, in some, as is represented ; and that in 
stomachs and entrails inured only to hot and high 
meats and drinks, and consequently in an inflamma- 
tory state, and full of choler and phlegm, this sensa- 
tion will sometimes happen- — just as a bottle of 
cider or fretting wine, when the cork is^ pulled out, 
;will fly up and fume and rage ; and if you throw in 
a little ferment or acid, (such as milk, seeds, fruit 
and vegetables to them) the effervescence and tem- 
pest will exasperate to a hurricane. 

But what are wind, flatulence, phlegm, and 
choler ? What, indeed, but stopped perspiration, 
superfluous nourishment, inconcocted chyle, of high 
fiKKl.and strong liquors, fermented and putrifying? 
And when these ate shut up and corked, with still 
more and more solid, strong, hot and styptic meats 
and drinks, is the corruption and putrefaction 
thereby lessened ? Will it not then, at last, either 
burst the vessel, or throw out the cork or stopples, 
and raise still more lasting and cruel tempests and 
tumults ? Are milk and vegetables, seeds and fruits, 
harder of digestion, more corrosive, or more capable 
of producing chyle, blood, and juices, less fit to 
circulate, to perspire, and be secreted ? 

But what is to be done ? The cure is obvious. 
Begin by degrees ; eat less animal food — the most 
tender and young — and drink less strong fermented 



100 VEGETABLE DIET. 

liquors, for a month or . two. Then proceed to a 
trimming diet, of one day, seed and vegetables, and 
another day, tender, young animal food ; — and, by 
degrees, slide into a total milk,- seed, and vegetable 
diet; cooling the stomach and entrails gradually, to 
fit them for this soft, mild, sweetening regimen ; and 
in time your diet will give you /all the gratification 
you ever had from strong, high and rank food, and 
spirituous liquors. And you will, at last, enjoy 
ease, free spirits, perfect health, and long life into 
the bargain. 

Seeds of all kinds are fittest to begin with, in 
these casesj when dried, finely ground and dressed ; 
and, consequently, the least flatulent. Lessen the 
quantity, even of these, below what your appetite 
would require, at least for a. time. Bear a little, and 
forbear. 

Virtue and good health are not to be obtained, 
without sonie labor and pains, against contrary 
habits. It was a wild bounce of a Pythagorean, 
who defied any one to produce an instance of a per- 
son, who had long lived on milk jand vegetables, 
who ever cut his own throat, hanged or mfide way 
with himself; who had ever suffered at Tyburn, 
gone to Newgate, or to Moorfields ; (and, he added 
rather profanely,) or, would goto eternal niisery 
hereafter. 

Another weighty objection against a vegetable 
diet, I have heard, has been made by learned men ; 
and is, that vegetables require great labor, strong 
exercise and much action, to digest and turn them 
into proper nutriment ; as (say they) is evident 



DR. CHETNE. 



101 



from their being the eommon diet of day-Iabotersr, 
handicrafls-men, and iarmers. This objection I 
should have been ashamed to mention, but that I 
have heard it come from men of learning ; and 
they might iiave as justly said, that free-stone is 
harder than marble, and that the juice of vegetables 
make stronger glue than that offish and beef! 

Do not children and young persons, that is, ten- 
der persons, live on milk and seeds, even before 
they are capable of much labor and exercise ? Do 
not all the eastern and southern people live almost 
entirely on them ? The Asiatics, Moors and In- 
dians, whose climates incapacitate them for much 
labor, and whose indolence is so justly a reproach 
to them ? Are these lazier and less laborious men 
than the highlanders and native Irish ? 

The truth is, hardness of digestion principally 
depends on the minuteness of the component parti- 
cles ; as is evident in marble, and precious stones. 
And animal substances being made of particles that 
pass through innumerable very little, or infinitely 
small excretory ducts, must be of a much finer 
texture, and consequently harder, or tougher, in 
their composition, than any vegetable substance can 
be. And the fiesh of animals that live on animals, 
is like double distilled spirits, and so requires much 
labor to break, grind, and digest it. ' And, indeed, 
if day-laborers, and handicrafts-men were allowed 
the high, strong food of men of condition, and the 
quiet and much-thinking persons were confined 
to the farmer and ploughman's food, it would be 
much happier for both. 

9* 



102 VEGETABLE DIET. 

^^nother objection, still, against a milk and vege- 
table diet, is, that it breeds phlegm, and so is unfit 
for tender persons, of cold constitutions ; especially 
those whose predominant failing is too much 
phlegm. But this objection has as littte foundation 
ks either of the preceding. Phlegm is nothing but 
superfluous chyle and nourishment, as the taking 
down more food than the expenses of living and 
the waste of the solids and fluids require. The 
people that live most on such foods -^ the east- 
ern and southern peopJe and those of the northern 
I have mentioned — are less troubled with phlegm 
than any others. Superfluity will always produce 
redundancy, whether it be of phlegm, or choler ; 
and that which will digest the niost readily, will 
produce the least phlegm; — siich as milk, seeds 
and vegetables. By cooling and relaxing the 
solids, the phlegm will be more readily thrown up 
and discharged — more, I say, by such a diet than 
by a hot, high, caustic and restringent one ; btit that 
discharge is a benefit to the constitution, and will 
help it the sooner and faster to become purifi- 
ed, and so to get into perfect good health. . Where- 
as, by shutting them up, the can or cask must 
fly and burst sq much the sooner. 

The only noaterial and solid objections against a 
milk, seed and vegetable diet, are the following : — 

FHrst, That it is particular and unsocial, in a 
country where the common diet is of another 
nature. But I am sure sickiiess, lowness, and op- 
pression, are much more so. These difficulties, after 
all, happen only at first, while the cure is about ; 



DR. CHEYNE. 103 

for, when good health comes, all these oddnesses 
and specialities will vanish, and then all the con- 
trary to these will be the case. 

Secondlyy That it is weakening, and gives a man 
less strength and force, than common diet. It is 
true that thiid may be. the result, at first, while the 
cure i3 imperfect. But then the greater activity and 
gayety which will ensue on the return of health, 
under a milk and vegetable diet, will liberally sup- 
ply that defect. 

Thirdly, The mo^t material objection against 
such a diet is, that it cools, relaxes, softens, and un- 
bends the solidSj at first, fester than it correct 
and sweetens the juices, and brings on greater de- 
grees of lowness than it is designed to cure ; and 
so sinks, instead of raising. But this objection is not 
universally true ; for there are many, I haive treated, 
who, without any such inconvenience, or conse- 
quent lowness, have gone into this regimen, and 
have been free from any oppression, sinking, or arny 
degree of weiakness, ever after ; and they were not 
only those who have been. generally temperate and 
clean, free from humors and sharpnesses, but who, 
on the decline of life, or from a naturally weak 
constitution, or frame, have been oppressed and 
sunk from their weakness and their incapacity to 
digest common animal food and fermented liquors. 

I very much question if any diet, either hot or 
cool, has any great influence on the solids, after 
the fluids have been entirely sweetened and balmi- 
fied. Sweeten and thin the juices, and the rest will 
follow, as a matter of course.'' 



104 VEGETABLE DIET. 

At page 90 of Dr. Cheyne's Natural Method of 
Curing- Diseases, he ihus iSays ; — 

"People think they cannot possibly subsist on a 
little meat, milk> and vegetables, or on any low diet, 
and that they must infallibly perish if they should 
be confined to water only; not considering that 
nine-tenths of the whole mass of mankind are ne- 
cessarily confined to this diet, or pretty nearly to it, 
aiid yet live with the use of their senses, limbs, and 
faculties, without diseases, or but few, and those from 
accidents or epidemical causes ; and that there have 
been nations-, and now are numbers of tribes, who 
voluntarily confine themselves to vegetables only ; 
as the Essenes among the Jews, some Hermits and 
Solitaries among the Christians of the first ages, 
a great number of the monks in the Chartreux 
now in Europe, Banians among the Indians and 
Chinese, the Guebres among the Persians, and of 
old, the Druids among ourselves." 

To illustrate the foregoing, I may her^ introduce 
the following extracts from the sixth London edition 
of Dr. Cheyne's Essay on Health and Long life. 

" It is surprising to what a great age the Eastern 
Christians, who retired from the persecutions into 
the deserts of Egypt and Arabia, lived healthful on 
a very little food. - We are informed, by Cassian, 
that the common measure for twenty-four hours was 
about twelve ounces, with only pure water for 
drink. St. Anthony lived ta one hundred and five 



DR. CHEYNE. 106 

3rears on mere bread and water, adding only a few 
herbs at last. On a similar diet, James the hermit 
iived to one hundred and fou^ years. Arsenius,- 
the tutor of the emperor Arcadiusj ta one hundred 
and twenty — sixty-five years in society, and fifty- 
five in the desert. St. Bpiphanus, to one hundred 
and fifteen ; St. Jerome, about one hundred ; Simon 
Stylites, to one hundred and nine; and BomuaU 
dud,.to one hundred and twenty. 

It is wonderful m what^ sprightliness, strength, 
activity' and freedom of spkiiS) a low diet, even here' 
in England^ will preserve those who have habitua- 
ted themselves to it. Buchanan informs us of 
one Laurence, who preserved himself to one hun- 
dred and forty, by the mere force of temperance 
and labor. Spots wood mentions one Kentigern, 
(afterwards called St. Mongah, or Mungo, from 
whom the famous well in Wales is named^) who 
lived to one hundred, and eighty-five years; and 
who, after he came to years of understanding, 
never tasted wine or strong drink, and slept oa 
the cold ground. - 

My worthy friend, Mr. Webb, is still alive. He, 
by the quickness of the faculties of the mind, and 
the activity of the organs of his bbdy, shows the 
great benefit of a low diet, — living altogether on 
vegetable food and pure water. Henry Jenkins 
liv^ to one. hundred and sixty-nine years on a, 
low, coarse, and simple diet Thomas Parr died at 
the age of one hundred and fifty-two years and nine 
months* His diet was coarse bread, milkj cheesei 
whey and small beer; and his historian tells us, 



106 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Ihat he might have lived a good while longer if he 
had not changed his diet and air ; coming out of a 
clear thin air, into the thick air of London, and 
being taken into a splendid family, where he fed 
high, and drank plentifuUjrof the best wines, and, 
as a necessary consequence, died in a short time. 
Dr. Lister mentions eighlj persons in the north of 
England, the? youngest of whom was above one 
hundred years old, and the oldest was one hundred 
and forty. He says, it is to be observed that the food 
"^of all this mountainous country is exceeding coarse,*! 

Dr. C, in his Natural Method, at page 91, thus 
tbntinues his remarks : — 

" And there are whole viHages in this kingdom, 
even of those who' live on the plains, who scarce 
eat animal food, or drink fermented liquors a dozen 
times, a year. It is true, most of these cannot be 
said to live at ease and commodiously, and many 
may be said to live in barbarity and ignorance. 
All I would infer from '^his is, that they do live, and 
enjoy life, health, and outward Serenity, with few or 
lio bodily diseases but from accidents and epidem- 
ical causes ; and that, being reduced by voluntary 
and necessary poverty, they are not able to manage 
with care and caution the rest of the non-naturals, 
which, for perfect health and cheerfulness, must all 
be equally attended to, and prudently conducted; 
and their ignorance and brutality is owing to the 
want of the convenience of due and suflScient cul- 
ture and education in their youth. 



. DR. CHEYMB. 107 

Bat the only conclusion I would drawirom these 
historical facts is, that a low diet, or living on vegeta- 
bles, will not destroy life or health, or cause nervous 
and cephalic distemper^ ; but, on the contrary, cure 
them, as far as they are curable. I pretend to de- 
monstrate from these facts that abstinence and a 
low diet, is the great antidote and universal remedy 
of distempers acquired by excess, intemperance and 
a .mistaken regimen of high meats and drinks ; and 
that it will greatly alleviate and render tolerable 
the original distempers derived from diseased pa- 
rents; and that it is absolutely necessary for the 
deep ' thinking part of mankind, who would pre- 
serve their faculties sound and entire, ripe and preg- 
nant to a green old age and to the last dregs of life ; 
and that it is, lastly, the true and real antidote and 
preservative from heavy-headedness, irregular and 
disorderly inteilectuaL functions, from loss of the 
rational faculties, memory and senses, and from all 
nervous distempers, as far as the ends of Providence 
and the condition of mortality will allow. 

Let two people be taken as nearly alike as the di- 
versity and the individuality of nature will admiti 
of the same age, stature, complexion and strength of 
body, and under the same chronical distemper, and I 
am willing to take the seeming worse of the two ; 
let all the most promising nostrums, drops, dregs 
s^d medicines, known among the learned and ex« 
perienced physicians, ancient or modern, regular 
physicians or quacks, be administered to the best of 
the two, by any professor at home or abroad; I 
will manage my pi^ent with only a few naturaUy 



t08 VEGETABLE DIET. 

indieated and proper evacuations and sweetening 
ihnocent alternatives, which shall neither be loath- 
some, various nor complicated, require no conlGuie- 
ment, under an appropriate diet, or, in a word, under 
the < lightest and the least,' or at worst under a 
milk and seed diet ; and I will venture reputation 
and life, that my method cures sooner, more perfect- 
ly and durably, is much more easily and pleasantly 
passed through, in a shorter time, and with less dan- 
ger of a relapse than the other, with all the assistance 
of the best skill and experience, under a full and free, 
though even a commonly reputed moderate diet, but 
of rich foods and generous liquors; much more, 
under a voluptuous diet." 

But lam unwilling to dismiss, this subject without 
inserting a few more extracts from Dr. Oheyne, to 
^ow his views of the treatment of diseases^ And 
fiM, of the scurvy, and other diseases which he 
supposes to arise from it. 

"There is no chronical distemper, whatsoever, 
more universal, more obstinate, and more fatal in 
Britain than the scurvy, taken in its general extent. 
Scarce any one chronical distemper but owes its 
origin to a scorbutic tendency, or is so. complicated 
with it, that it furnishes the most cruel and most 
obstinate symptoms. To it we owe all the dropsies 
that happen after the meridian of life; all diabetes, 
asthmas, consumptions of several kinds ; many sorts 
of colics and diarrhoeas ; some kinds of gouts and 
rheumatisms, all palsies, various kinds of ulctrs. 



BR. CHETNE. 109 

ai3d possibly the cancer itself; and most cutaneous 
foulnesses, weakly constitutions, and bad digestions ; 
vapors, melancholy and almost all nervous distem^ 
pers whatsoever. And \y hat a plentiful source of 
miseries the last are, the afSlicted best can tell. 
And scarce atiy one chronical distemper whatever, 
but has some degree of this evil faithfully attending 
it. The reasdn why the scurvy is peculiar to this 
country and so fruitful of miseries, is, that it is pro- 
duced by causes mostly special (uid particular to this 
island, to wit : the indulging so much in animal 
food and strong fermented liquors, sedentary and 
confined employments, &c. 

Though the inhabitants of Britain live,, for the 
nK)st part, as long as those of a warmer climate, and 
probably rather longer, yet scarce any one, especial- 
ly those of the better sort, but becomes crazy and 
suffers under some chronical distemper or other, be- 
fore he arrives at old age. 

Nothing less than a very moderate use of animal 
food and that of the least exciting kind, and a more 
moderate use of spirituous liquors, due exercise, &c. 
can keep this Jiydra under. And nothing else than 
a total abstinence from animal food and alcoholic 
liquors can totally extirpate it." 

The following are extracted from his " Natural 
Methcxls." I do not lay them down as recipes, to* 
be followed in th6 Ueatment of diseases ; but to 
show the views of Dr. Oheyne in regard to vegetable 
tegimen. . • 

" 1. Cancer.' Any cancer that can be cut out, 
10 



110 VSGCTABLE DIET. 

ooQtracted and healed up with common, that is, soft, 
eool and gently astringent dressings, and at la$t left 
as an issue on the- part, may, by a oow's-milk and 
seed diet continued ever afterward, be made as 
easy to the patient and his life and health as long 
preserved, almost, as if he had never been afflicted 
with it ; especially if under fifty years of age. 

2. Cancer. A total ass's-milk diet — about two 
quarts a day, without any other meat or drink — will 
in time cure a cancer in any part of the body, with 
mere common dressings, provided the patient is not 
quite worn out with it before it is begun, or too far 
gone in the common duration of life'; and even in 
that case, it will lessen the pain, lengthen Ufe, and 
make death easier, especially if joined with small 
interspersed bleedings, millepedes, crabs' eyes pre- 
pared, nitre and rhubarb, properly managed^ But 
the diet, even after the^ cure, must be continued, 
and never after greatly altered, unless it be into 
cows' milk with seeds. 

3. Consumption. A total milk and seed diet, 
gentle and frequent bleedings, as symptoms exaspe- 
rate, a little ipecacuana or thumb vomit repeated 
onoe or twice a week, chewing quill bark in the 
morning, and a few grains of rhubarb at night, 
will totally cure consumptions, even when ajfended 
with tubercles, and hemoptoe, and hectic, in the first 
stage; will greatly relieve, if not cure, in the second 
stage, especially if riding and a warm clear air be 
joined; and make death easier in the third and^ last 
stage. 

4. Fits. A total cows'-milk die^ — about two 



DR. CHEYNE. Ill 

quarts a day, r- without any other food, will at last 
totally cure all kinds of fits, epileptical, hysterical 
or apoplectic, if entered upoti before fifty. But the 
patient, if near fifty, must ever after continue in the 
same diet, with the addition only of seeds ; other- 
wise his fits will return oftener and more severely, 
and at last cut him off. 

5. Palsy. A total cows'-milk diet, without any 
other food, will bid fairest to cure a hemiplegia or 
even a dead palsy, and consequently all the lesser 
degreed of a partial one, if entered upon before fifty. 
And this distemper I take 16 be the most obstinate, 
intractable, and disheartening one that can afflict 
the human machine; and is chiefly produced by 
intemperate cookery, with its necessary attendant, 
habitual luxury. 

6. Oout- A total milk and seed diet, with gentle 
vomits before and after the fits, chewing bark in the 
morning and rhubarb at night, with bleeding about 
the equinoxes, will perfectly cure the gout in persons 
under fifty, and greatly relieve those farther ad- 
vanced in life ; but must be continued ever after, 
if such desire to get well. 

7. Gravel. Soap lees, softened with a little oil of 
sweet almonds, drunk about a quarter of an ounce 
twice a day on a fasting stomach ; or soap and egg 
shell pills, with a total milk and seed diet, and Bristol 
water beverage, will either totally dissolve the stone 
in kidneys or bladder, or render it almost as easy as 
the nail on one's finger, if the patient is under fifty, 
and much relieve him, even after that age. 

In about thirty years'practice, in which I have, in 
some degree or other, advised this method in proper 



112 VEGETABLE DIET. 

cases, I have had but two patients in whose total 
recovery I have been mistaken, and these were both 
scrofulous cases, where the glands and tubercles 
were so many, so hard, and so impervious that even 
the ponderous remedies and diet joined could not dis- 
cuss them ; and they were both also too far gone be- 
fore they entered upon them ; r— and I have found 
deep scrofulous vapors the most obstinate of any of 
this tribe of these distempers. And indeed nothing 
can possibly reach such, but the ponderous medi- 
cines, joined with a liquid, cool, soft, milk and seed 
regimen; and if . these two do not, in due time, I 
can boldly affirm it, nothing ever will." 

Dr. Oheyne goes on to speak of the cure, on 
similar principles, of a great many other difficult or 
dangerous diseases, as asthma, pleurisy, hemorrhage, 
mania, jaundice, bilious colic, rheumatism, scurvy, 
and venereal disease ; but he modestly owns that, 
in his opinion on these, he does not feel such entire 
confidence as in the former cases, for want of suffi- 
cient experiments. He, however, closes one of his 
chapters with the following pretty strong statement : 

"J am morally certain, and a^l myself entirely 
convinced, that a milk and seed, or milk and turnip 
diet, duly persisted iq, with the occasional helps 
ngientioned (elsewhere) on exacerbations, will either 
totally cure or greatly relieve every chronical dis- 
temper I ever saw or read of." 

Another chapter is thus concluded, and with it I 
shall condude my extracts from his writings. 



DR. GEOPJ-ROY. 113 

. " Some, perhaps, may controvert, nay. ridicule the 
doctrine laid down iii these propositions. I ^hafi 
neither reply to, nor be moved with any thing that 
shall be said agaiQst them. If they are of nature 
arid truth, they will stand ; if npt, I Consent they 
should come to nought. I have satisfied my own 
conscience — the rest belongs to Providence. Possi- 
bly time and bodily. sufferings may justify them; — 
if not to this generation, perhaps to some succeeding 
one, I myself am convinced, by long and niany 
repeated experience, of their justness and solidity. 
If what has been advocated through this whole trea- 
tise does not convince others, nothing I can add will 
be sufficient. I will leave only this reflection with 
my readers.. 

All physicians, ancient and modem, allow that a 
milk and seed diet will totally cure before fifly, and 
infinitely alleviate after it, the consumption,- the rheu- 
m^tismj the scurvy, the gout, — these highest, most 
mortal, most painful, and most obstinate distempers ; 
and nothing is more certain in mathematics, than 
that, which will cure the. greater will certainly cure^ 
th6 lesser distempers." • 

DR; GEOFPROY. 

* * • ■ 

Dr. Geofproyj a distinguished French physician 
and professor of chemistry and medicine in some of 
the institutions of France, flourished more than a: 
hundred years ago. The bearing of the following 
extract will be readily seen. It is from the Meinoirs 
of the Royal Academy for the jrear 1730 ; and I am 
indebted for it to the labor^-of Dr. Cheyne. - . 
10* 



114 



VEGETABLE DIET. 



" M. Geoffroy has giving a method for determin- 
ing the proportion of nourishment or true matter of 
the flesh and blood, contained in any sort of food. 
He took a pound of meat that had been freed from 
the fat, bones, and cartilages, and boiled it for a de- 
termined time in a close vessel, with three pints of 
water; then, pouring off the liquor, he added the 
same quantity of water, boiling it again for the same 
time ; and this operation he repeated several times, 
so that the last liquor appeared, both in smell and 
taste; to . be little different from common water. 
Then, putting all the liquor together, and filtrating, 
tO' separate the too gross particles, he evaporated it 
over a slow fire, till it was brought to an extract of 
a pretty moderate consistence. 

This. experiment was^ made upon several sorts of 
food, the result of which may be seen in the follow- 
ing table. — The weights, are in ounces, drachms 
and grains ;^ sixty grains to a drachm, and eight 
drachms to an ounce. 



Kind of Food. . 


Amount of Extract 


• 


oz. dr. gr. 


One lb. Beef 


. . 0. 7. 8. 


« . Veal 


. . 1. 1. 48. 


'* Mutton . 


. 1. 3. 16. 


,'.' Lamb 


.> 1. 1. 39. 


« Chicken . 


. 1, 4. 34. 


" Pigeon . 


1- 0. 12. 


" Pheasant . 


1. 2. 8. 


" Partridge 


1. 4. 34. 


" Calves' Feet 


1. 2. 26. 


« Carp 


. 1. 0. a 



DB. QE.OFFSLOY. 



116 



Kind of Food. 

One lb. Whey 
• " Bread 



Amount of Extract, 
oz. dr. gr. 

1. 1. 3. 
. 4. 1. 0. 



: The relative proportion of the nourishment will 
be as foUoTws : --- . 



Beef . 


7 


Veal . . , 


9 


Mutton 


11 


Lamb 


9 


Chicken 


. 12 


Pigeon 


8 


Pbeasiant . 


. 10 


Partridge . 


12 


Calves' Feet 


10 


Carp . 


.8 


Whey 


9 


Bread 


33 



From the foregoing decisive experiments it is 
evident that white, young, tender animal food, breads 
milk and vegetables are the best and most effectual 
substances for nutrition, accretion, and sweetening 
bad juices. They may not give so strong and dura- 
ble mechanical force, because being easily and readi- 
ly digestible, and quickly passing all the animal 
functions, so as to turn into good blood^ and mus- 
cular flesh, they are more transitory, fugitive, and of 
prompt secretion ; yet they will perform all the 
animal functions more readily and pleasantly, with 
fewer resistances and less labor, and leave the piur* 
ty to exercise the rational and inteliectual operatioiis 



116 VEGfiTABLfi DlEr. 

with pleasure and -facility. They will leave Nature 
to its own original powers, prevent and cure dis- 
eases, and lepgthen out life." , 

Now if this experiment proves what Dr. C. 
supposes in favor of the lighter meats and vege- 
tables taken together, how much more does it 
provfr for bread alone ? For it cannot escape the 
eye of the least observing that this article,, though 
placed last in the list of Dr. Geoffroy, is by far 
the highest in point of nutriment ; nay, that it is 
about three times as high as any. of the rest. 1 
am not disposed to lay so much stress on these 
experiments as Dr. C. does; nevertheless, they prove 
something. Connected with the more recent ex- 
periments of Messrs. Percy and Vauquelinand oth- 
ers, how* strikingly do they establish one fact, at 
least, namely, that bread and the other farinaceous 
vegetables cannot possibly be wanting in nutriment; 
and how completely do they annihilate the. old- 
fashioned doctrine, — one which is still abroad and 
veiy extensively believed, — that animal food is a 
great deal more nourishing than vegetable! No 
careful inquirer can doubt that bread, peas, beans, 
rice, &c. are twice as nutritious •"— to say the 
least — as flesh or fish. 

MESSRld. PERCY AND VAUCtUKLIN. 

As I have alluded, in the preceding article, to the 
experiments of Messrs. Percy and Vauquelin, two 
distinguished French chemists, their testimony in 
this place seems almost IndispeasaUdi even though 



PERCY AND VAUaUELIN. 117 

we should not regard it, in the most strict import of 
the term, as medical testimony. The result pf their 
experiments, as communicated by them to the 
French minister of the interior, is as follows : — 

In bread, every one hundred pounds is found tp 
contain eighty pounds of nutritious matter ; butcher 
meat, averaging the different sorts, contains only 
thirty-five pounds in one hundred ; French beans, 
(in the grain,) ninety-two pounds in one hundred ; 
broad beans, eighty-nine pounds ; peas, ninety-three 
pounds ; lentils, (a species of half pea little known 
with us,) fifty-four pounds in one hundred ; greens 
and turnips only eight pounds of solid nutritious 
substance in one hundred ; carrots, fourteen pounds; 
and one hundred pounds of potatoes yield only 
twenty-five pounds of nutriment. 

I will just afSx to the foregoing one more table. 
It is inserted in several other works which I have 
published; but for the benefit of those who may 
never yet have seen it, and to show how strikingly 
it corresponds with the results of the experiments of 
Geoffrey, Percy and Vauquelin, I deem it proper to 
insert it. 

Of the best wheat, one hundred pounds contain 
about eighty-five pounds of nutritious matter ; of 
rice, ninety pounds; of rye, eighty; of barley, 
eighty-thtee ; pf beans, eighty-nine to ninety-two; 
peas, ninety-three ; lentils, ninety-four ; meat, (aver- 
age,) thirty>-five ; potatoes, twenty-five ; beets, four- 
teen; carrots,* ten ; cabbage, seven ;^eens, six; 
and turnips, four. 



118 VEGETABLE DIET. 



VR. PEMBERTON. 



Dr. Pembbrton, after speaking of the general ten- 
dency in ouf highly fed communities, to scrofula 
and consumption, makes the following remarks, 
which need no comment ; — 

" If a child is born of scrofulous pjirents, I would 
sttongly recommend that it be entirely nourished 
from the breast of a healthy nurse, for at least a 
year. After this, the food should consist of milk 
and farinaceous vegetables. By a perseverance . in 
this diet for three years, I have imagined that the 
threatened scrofulous appearances have certainly 
b^en postponed, if not altogether p>revented." 



SIR JOHN SINCLAIR. 

Sir John Sinclair, an eminent British surgeon, 
says, " I have wandered a good deal about the 
world, my health has been tried in all ways^ and, by 
the aid of temperance and hard work, I have worn 
out two armies in: two wars, and probably could 
wear out another before my period of old age 
arrives. I eat no animal food, drink no wine or 
malt liquor, or spirits of any kind,; I wear no flan- 
nel; and neither regard wind nor tain, heat nor 
cold, when business is in the way/' 



DR. JAMES — DR. CRANSTOUN. 119 



DR. JAMES, OF WISCONSIN. 

- Dr. JameSy of Wisconsin, but formerly of Albany, 
and editor of a temperance paper in that city, one 
of the most sensible, intelligent apd re&ned of men, 
and one of the first in his profession, is a vegetable 
efiter, and a man of great simplicity in all his phys- 
ical, intellectual . and moral habits. I do not know 
that his views have ever been presented to the pub- 
lic, but I state them with much confidence, from, a 
source in which I place the most implicit reliance*. 

DR. CRANSTOUN. 

Dr. Cranstoun, a worthy medical gentleman in 
England, became subject, by some means or other, 
to a chronic dyseptery, on which he exhausted, as 
it were, the whole materia medica, in vain. At 
length, after suflfering greatly for four or five years, 
he was completely cured by a milk ap^ vegetable 
diet. The following is his own brief account of his 
cure, in a letter to Dr. Cheyne : — 

"I resolutely, as soon as capable of a diet, held 
myself close to your rules of bland vegetable food 
and elenientary drink, and, without . any other 
medicine, save frequent chewing of rhubarb, and 
a little bark, I passed last winter and this summer 
without a relapse of the dysentery; and, though 
by a very slow advance, I find now more restitu*. 
tion of the body and regularity in the economy, 
on this primitive aliment, than ever I knew firom 



ISk) VEGETABLE DIET. 

the beginning of this trouble. This encourages 
much my perseverance in the same method, and 
that so religiously, as, to my knowledge now for 
more than a year and a half, I have not tasted of 
any thing that had animal life. There is plenty 
in the vegetable kingdom." 

DR. TAYLOR, OF ENGLAND. 

• 

This gentleman, who had studied the works of 
Dr. Sydenham, and was therefore rather favorably 
inclined towards a milk and vegetable diet, became 
at last subject to epileptic fits. Not being willing, 
however, to give up his high living and his strong 
drinks, he tried the effects of medicine, and even 
consulted all the most eminent of his brethren of the 
medical profession, in and about London. But all 
to no purpose, and the fits continued to recur. He 
used frequently to be attacked with them while rid- 
ing along the road, in pursuance of the business of 
his professfcn. In these cases, be would fall from 
his horse, and often remain senseless till some pas- 
senger or wagon came along and carried him to the 
nearest house. At length his danger, not only 
from accidents, but from the frequency and violence 
6f the attacks, became so iinminent, that he was 
obliged to follow the advice of his master, Sydenham. 
He first laid aside the use of all fermented and dis- 
tilled liquors ; then, finding fais fits became less £re- 
quent and violent, he gave up all fiesh meat, and 
confined himself entirely to cows' milk. 
In pursuance of this plan, in a year or two the 



HUFELAND ANP ABEBNETHY. 121 

epilepsy entirely left him. "And now," sa3rs Dr. 
Oheyne^ from whom I take the account, " for seyen^- 
teen years, he has enjoyed as good health as humaa 
nature is capable of, except that once, in a damp 
air and foggy weather, in riding through Essex, he 
was seized with an ague, which he got over by 
chewing the bark." He assured Dr. 0, that, at 
this time, — and he was considerably advanced in 
life, — ^^ he could play six hours at cricket, without 
fatigue or distress, and was more active and clear in 
his faculties than ever he had been before in his 
whole life. He also said he had cured a great many 
persons, by means of the same diet, of inveterate dis- 
tempers. 

DKS. HUFELAND AND ABERNETHY. 

The celebrated Hufeland taught that a simple 
vegetable diet was most conducive to health and 
long life. The distinguished Dr. Abernethy has ex- 
pressed an opinion not very unlike it, in the follow- 
ing eccentric manner : — 

- ' • * 

" If you put improper food into the stomach, it 
becomes disordered, and the whole system is affect- 
ed. Vegetable matter ferments, and becomes gase- 
ous, while (mimed substances are changed into a 
putrid, abominable, and acrid stimulus. Now, some 
people acquire preposterous noses ; others, blotches 
on the fa^e, and different parts of the body ; others, 
inflammation of the eyes; all arising from the irrita- 
tions of the stomach. I am^often asked why I don^ 

11 



122 VEGETABLE DIET. 

practise what I preach. I reply, by reminding the 
inquirer of the parson and sign-post — both point 
the way, but neither follow its course.." 

DR. GREGORY. 

Dr. Gregory, a distinguished professor and prac- 
titioner of medicine, in Scotland, in a work publish- 
ed more than seventy years ago, strongly recom- 
mends plain and simple food for children. Till they 
are three years old, he says, their diet should consist 
of plain milk, panada, good bread, barley meal 
porridge, and rice. He also complains of pampering 
them with animal food. The same arguments 
which are good for forming them to the habits of 
vegetable food exclusively for the first three years 
of life, would be equally good for its continuance. 

DR. CULLEN, OF EDINBURGH. 

The name of Dr. Cullen is well known, and he 
has long been regarded as high authority. Yet this 
distinguished writer and teacher expressly says that 
a very temperate and sparing use of animal food is 
the surest means of preserving health and obtaining 
long life. But I will quote his own language, in 
various parts of his writings. And first, from his 
Materia Medica. 

" Vegetable aliment, as never over distending the 
vessels or loading the system, never interrupts the 
stronger emotions of the mind, while the heat, ful- 



DR. CULLEN. 123 

ness, and weight of animal food, is an enemy to its 
vigorous eflforts. Temperance, then, does not con- 
sist so much in the quantity, for that will always be 
regulated by our appetite, as in the quality, viz. a 
large proportion of vegetable aliment." 

I will not stop here to oppose Dr. C.'s views in 
regard to the quantity of our food ; for this is not 
the place. It is sufS.cient to show that he admits the 
importance of quality^ and gives the preference to a 
diet of vegetables. 

He seems in favor, in another place in his works, 
of sleeping after eating — perhaps ajieresytoo, — 
and incUnes to the opinion that the practice would 
be hardly hurtful if we ate less animal food. 

But his " First Lines of the Practice of Physic," 
abounds in testimonies in favor of vegetable food. 
In speaking, for example, of the cure of rheumatic 
affections, he has the following language : 

" The cure, therefore, requires, in the first place, 
an antiphlogistic regimen, and particularly, a totd 
abstinence from animal food, and from all fermented 
or spirituous liquors." 

<' Antiphlogistic regimen," in medical latiguage, 
means that food and drink which is most cooUng 
and quieting to the stomach and to the general 
system. 

In the treatment of gout. Dr. CuUen recommends 
a course Uke thia,t which has been stated, except that 
instead of proposing vegetable food as a means of 
cure, he recommends it as preventive. He says, — 



124 Vi^OETABLE BIET. 

" The gout may be entirely prevented by constant 
bodily exercise, and by a low diet; and I am of 
opinion that this prevention may take place even in 
persons who have a hereditary disposition to the 
disease. I must add, hete, that even when the dis- 
position has discovered itself by severe paroxysms of 
inflammatory gout, I am persuaded that labor and 
abstinence will absolutely prevent any returns of it 
for the rest of life." 

Again, in reference to the same subject, he thus 
observes : -*»• 

• 
~ ^ I am firmly peri^uaded that any man who, early 
in life, will enter upon the constant practice <^ 
bodily labor and of abstinence from animal food, 
Will be preserved entirely from the disease." 

And yet once more. 

"If -an abstinence from animal food be entered 
upon early in life, while the vigor of the system is 
yet entire, I have no doubt of its being both safe and 
effectual." 

To guard against the common opinion that by 
vegetable food, he meant raw, or crude, or bad vegd- 
tables. Dr. O; explains his meaning by assuring the 
reader, that by a vegetable diet he means the 
<* farinaceous seeds," and " milk ; " and admits that 
green, crude and bad vegetables are not only less 
useftil, but actually hable to produee the very dis- 



DR. CULLEN. 126 

eases, which good, mealy vegetable food will prevent 
or cure. 

This is an important distinction. Many a person, 
who wishes to be abstemious, seemi? to think that if 
he only abstains from flesh and fish, that is enough. 
No matter, he supposes, what vegetables he uses, so 
they are vegetables ; nor how much he abuses him- 
self by excess in quiantity. Nay, he will even load 
his stomach with milk, or butter, or eggs ; sometimes 
with 'fish, (we have often been asked if we consider- 
ed fish as animal food ;) and sometimes, worse still, 
with hot bread, hot buckwheat cakes, hot short 
cakes, swimming, almost in butter ; — ^yes, and some- 
times he will even cover his potatoes with gravy, 
mustard, salt, &c. 

It is in vain for mankind to abstain fi'om animal 
food, as they call it, and yet run into these worse 
errors. The lean parts of animals not much fat- 
tened, and only rarely cooked, eaten once a day in 
small quantity, are far less unwholesome than many 
of the foregoing. 

But to return to Dr. C. In speaking of the 
proper drink for persons inclined- to gout, he thus 
remarks : — 

" With respect to drink, fermented liquors are 
useful only when they are joined* with animal food, 
and that by their acescency ; and their stimulus is 
only necessary from custom. When, therefore, 
animal food is to be avoided, fermented liquors are 
unnecessary, and by increasing the acescency of 
vegetables, these liquors may be hurtful. The 

11* 



186 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Stimulus of fermented or spirituous liquors is not 
necessary to the young and vigorous ; and, when 
much employed, impairs the tone of the system." 

Dr. C. might have added — what indeed we 
should infer by parity of reasoning — that when fer- 
mented liquors are avoided, animal food is no longer 
necessary, and by increasing the alkaline state of 
the stomach and fluids, may be hurtful. The truth 
is, they go best together. If we use flesh and fish, 
which are alkaline, a small quantity of gently acid 
drink, as weak cider or wine, taken either with our 
meals, or between them, may be useful. It is better, 
however, to abstain from both. 

For if a purely vegetable aliment, with water 
alone for drink, is safe to all young person^ indin* 
ing at all to gout, to whom is it unsafe? If it tends 
to render a young person at all weaker, that very 
weakness would predispose to the gout, in some of 
its forms, if a person were constitutionally inclined 
to that disease — if not to some other complaint, to 
which he Was niore inclined. It cannot, therefore, 
be unsafe to any, if Dr. C. is right. 

But if those who are trained to it, lose nothing, 
even in the high latitude of Scotland — where Dr. 
0. wrote — by confining themselves to good v^eta- 
bles and water, then they must necessarily gain, on 
hfs own principles, by this way of living, because 
they get rid of any sort of necessity (he might have 
added, lose their appetite) for fermented liquors. 

More than this, as the Dr. himself concludes, in 
another place, they prevent miHiy acute diseases. 



BR. RUSH. 127 

His words ^re these : — " It is animal food vhich 
especially predisposes to the plethoric and inflamma- 
tory state ; and that food is therefore to be especial^ 
ly avoided." It is true, he is here speaking of gouty 
persons; but his principles are also fairly isuscepti- 
ble, as- 1 have shown, of a general application. 

In short, it is an undeniable fact, that even a 
thorough-going vegetable eater might prove every- 
thing he wished, from old established writers on 
medicine and health, though themselves were feeders 
on animal food; just as a teetotaller may prove the 
doctrine of abstinence from all drinks but water^ 
from the writings of medical men, though themselves 
are still, in many cases, {)ouring down their cider, 
their beer, or their wine -— or at least, their tea and 
coflfee. 

DR. BENJAMIN RUSH. 

I-find nothing in the writings of this great man' 
which shows, with certainty, what his views were^ 
in regard to animal food. The presutnption is, that 
he was sparing in its use, and that he encouraged 
a very limited use of it in others. This is presumed| 
1, from the general tenor of his writings — deeply 
imbued as they are with the great doctrine of tenoe- 
perance in all things ; and, 2, from the fondness he 
seems to have manifested in mentioning the temper- 
ance and even abstinence of individuals of whom 
he was speaking. 

Of Ann Woods, for eiample, who died at the age 
of ninety-siic, years, he says, « Her diet was simply 



128 VEGETABLE DIET. 

consisting chiefly of weak tea, milk, cheese, butter^ 
and vegetables. Meat of all kinds, except veal, 
disagreed with her stomach. She found great ben- 
efit from frequently changing her aliment. Her 
drinks were water, cider - and water, and molasses 
and vinegar in water. She never used spirits.- Her 
memory (at her death) was but little impaired. She 
was cheerful and thankful that her condition in 
life was happier than that of hundreds of other 
people. 

In his account of Benjamin Lay, a philosopher 
of the sect of the Friends, in Pennsylvania, Dr. R. 
relates, that " he was extremely temperate in his 
diet, living chiefly upon vegetables. Turnips boiled 
and afterwards Toasted, were his favorite dinner. 
His drink was pure water. He lived above eighty 
years." It. appears, also, that he was exceedingly 
healthy. 

He relates of Anthony Benezet, a distinguished 
teacher of Philadelphia, who lived to an advanced 
age, that his sympathy was so great with everything 
that was capable of feeling pain, thdt he resolved, 
towards the close of his life, to ^at no animal food. 
He also relates the following singular anecdote of 
him.^ Upon coming into his brother's house, one 
day, when the family were dining upon poultry, he 
was asked by his brother's wife to sit down and 
dine with them. What ! said he, would you have 
me eat my neighbors ? 

Dr. Caleb Bannister, in another part of this work, 
tells us that he was led to adopt a milk and vegeta- 
ble diet, in incipient consumption, from reading the 



DR. LAMBE. 129 

writings of T>t. Rush ; and I have little doubt that 
Dr. R. himself lived quite abstemiously, if not alto- 
gether on vegetables. 
. Nor.is this incidental testimony from Dr. Rush 
quite all. In his work "On the Diseases of the 
Mind," he speaks often of the evils of eating high- 
seasoned food, and especially animal food. And in 
stating what were the proper remedies for debility 
in young men, when induced by certain forms of 
Ucentiousness, he expressly insists on a diet consist- 
ing simply of vegetables, and prepared without 
condiments ; and he even encourages the disuse of 
salt. Had Dr. Rush lived to this day, he would, 
ere now, in iall probability, have fully adopted and 
defended the vegetable system. With views like 
his on the subject of intemperance, and a mind ever 
open to conviction, the result could hardly have 
been otherwise. 

»R. WILLIAM LAMBE, OF LONDON. 

• 

Dr. William Lambe, of London, is distinguished 
both as a physician and a general scholar, and is a 
prominent member of the " College of Physicians." 
He was a graduate of St. John's College, Cambridge, 
and a fellow-student with the immortal ClarfesoUi 

Dr. Lambe is the author of several valuable 
works, aniong which are his " Reports on Cancer," 
and a more recent work, entitled "Additional Re- 
ports on the Effects of a Peculiar Regimen, in 
Cases of Cancer, Scrofula, Consumjjtion, Asthma, 
and other chronic diseases.'^ He has also made 



130 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and published numerous experiments, especially in 
chemistry, which is, with him, a favorite science j 
and it is said that he has spent fortunes in this way. 

t)r. L. is now seventy-three years of age, and has 
lived on a vegetable diet thirty-one years. He com- 
menced this course to cure himself of internal gout, 
and continued it because he found it better for his 
health. He is now only troubled with it slightly, 
at his extremities, which he thinks highly credita- 
blie to a vegetable coiirse — having, thrown it off 
from his vital organs. He is cheerful and active, 
and able to discharge the duties of an extensive 
medical practice. He walks into town, a distance 
of three miles from his residence,- every morning, 
and back at night ; and thinks himself as likely to 
live thirty years longer as he was, thirty years ago, 
to live to his present age. 

The following is a condensed account of Dr. L.'s 
views, as obtained from his "Additional Reports," 
above mentioned. Some of the first paragraphs 
relate to the effects of vegetable food on those who 
are predisposed to scrofula, consumption, &c. 

" We see daily examples of young persons be- 
coming consumptive who never went without ani- 
mal food a single day of their lives. If the lise of 
animal food were necessary to prevent consumption, 
we should e:s:pect, where people lived almost entirely 
upon such a diet, the disease would be unknown. 

Now, the Indian tribes visited by Mr. Hearne live 

in this manner. They do not cultivate the earth. 

subsist by hunting, and the scanty produce of 



DR. LAM.BE. 131 

spontaneous vegetation. But, among these tribes 
consumption is common. , Their diseases, as Mt.- 
Hearne informs us, are principally fluxes, scurvy 
and consumption. 

In the last four years, several cases of glandular* 
swellings have occurred to me at th,e general dis- 
pensary, and I have made particular inquiries into 
the mode of living of such children. In the majori- 
ty, they had animal food. In opposition to the ac- 
cusation of vegetable food causing tumefaction of 
the abdomen, I must testify, that twice in my own 
family I have seen such swellings disappear under a 
vegetable regimen, which had been formed under a 
diet of animal food. 

Increasing the strength, for a time, is no proof of 
the salubrity of diet. The increased stren^h may 
not continue, though the diet should be continued. 
On the contrary, there is a sort of oscillation ; the 
strength just rising, then sinking again. — This is 
what is experienced by the trainers of boxers. A 
certain time is necessary to get these men into condi- 
tion; but this condition cannot be maintained for 
many weeks together, though the process by which 
it was formed is continued. The same is found to 
to hold in the training of race-horses, and fighting- 
cocks. 

It seems certain that animal food predisposes to 
disease. Timoric, in his account of the plague at 
Constantinople asserts that the Armenians who live 
chiefly on vegetable food, were far less disposed to 
the disease than other people. The typhus fever is 
gTeatly exasperated by full living. 



130 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and pubKshed numerous experiments, especially in 
chemistry, which is, with him, a favorite science ; 
and it is said that he has spent fortunes in this way. 

t)r. L. is now seventy-three years of age, and has 
lived on a vegetable diet thirty-one years. He com- 
menced this course to cure himself of internal gout, 
and continued it because he found it better for his 
health. He is now only troubled witli it slightly, 
at his extremities, which he thinks highly credita- 
ble to a vegetable coiirse — having, thrown it off 
from his vital organs. He is cheerful and active, 
and able to discharge the duties of an extensive 
medical practice. He walks into town, a distance 
of three miles from his residence,* every morning, 
and back at night ; and thinks himself as likely to 
live thirty years longer as he was, thirty years ago, 
to live to his present age. 

The following is a condensed account of Dr. L.'s 
views, as obtained from his " Additional Reports," 
above mentioned. Some of the first paragraphs 
relate to the eflfects of vegetable food on those who 
are predisposed to scrofula, consumption, &c. 

" We see daily examples of young persons be- 
coming consumptive who never went without ani- 
mal food a single day of their lives. If the use of 
animal food were necessary to prevent consumption, 
we should e:s:pect, where people lived almost entirely 
upon such a diet, the disease would be unknown. 

Now, the Indian tribes visited by Mr. Hearne live 
in this manner. They do not cultivate the earth. 
They subsist by hunting, and the scanty produce of 



BR. LAM.BE. 131 

spontaneous vegetation. But, among these tribes 
consumption is common. , Their diseases, as Mr.- 
Hearne informs us, are principally fluxes, scurvy 
and consumption. 

In the last four years, several cases of glandular' 
swellings have occurred to me at th,e general dis- 
pensary, and I have made particular inquiries into 
the mode of living of such children. In the majori- 
ty, they had animal food. In opposition to the ac- 
cusation of vegetable food causing tumefaction of 
the abdomen, I must testify, that twice in my own 
family I have seen such swellings disappear under a 
vegetable regimen, which had been formed under a 
diet of animal food. 

Increasing the strength, for a time, is no proof of 
the salubrity of diet. The increased strengfth may 
not continue, though the diet should be continued. 
On the contrary, there is a sort of oscillation ; the 
strength just rising, then sinking again. — This is 
what is experienced by the trainers of boxers. A 
certain time is necessary to get these men into condi- 
tion ; but this condition cannot be maintained for 
many weeks together, though the process by which 
it was formed is continued. The same is found to 
to hold in the training of race-horses, and fighting- 
cocks. 

It seems certain that animal food predisposes to 
disease. Timoric, in his account of the plague at 
Constantinople asserts that the Armenians who live 
chiefly on vegetable food, were far less disposed to 
the disease than other people. The typhus fever is 
gTeatly exasperated by full living. 



130 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and published numerous experiments, especially in 
chemistry, which is, with him, a favorite science ; 
and it is said that he has spent fortunes in this way. 

i)r, L. is now seventy-three years of age, and has 
lived on a vegetable diet thirty-one years. He com- 
menced this course to cure himself of internal gout, 
and continued it because he found it better for his 
health. He is now only troubled with it slightly, 
at his extremities, which he thinks highly credita- 
ble to a vegetable coiirse — having, thrown it off 
from his vital organs. He is cheerful and active, 
and able to discharge the duties of an extensive 
medical practice. He walks into town, a distance 
of three miles from his residence,- every morning, 
and back at night ; and thinks himself as likely to 
live thirty years longer as he was, thirty years ago, 
to live to his present age. 

The following is a condensed account of Dr. L.'s 
views, as obtained from his " Additional Reports," 
above mentioned. Some of the first paragraphs 
relate to the effects of vegetable food on those who 
are predisposed to scrofula, consumption, &c. 

" We see daily examples of young persons be- 
coming consumptive who never ' went without ani- 
mal food a single day of their lives. If the use of 
animal food were necessary to prevent consumption, 
we should expect, where people lived almost entirely 
upon such a diet, the disease would be unknown. 

Now, the Indian tribes visited by Mr. Hearne live 
in ttiis manner. They do not cultivate the earth. 
They subsist by hunting, and the scanty produce of 



BR. LAM.BE. 131 

spontaneous vegetation. But, among these tribes 
consumption is common. , Their diseases, as Mt.- 
Hearne informs us, are principally fluxes, scurvy 
and consumption. 

In the last four years, several cases of glandular' 
swellings have occurred to me at th,e general dis- 
pensary, and I have made particular inquiries into 
the mode of living of such children. In the majori- 
ty, they had animal food. In opposition to the ac- 
cusation of vegetable food causing tumefaction of 
the abdomen, I must testify, that twice in my own 
family I have seen such swellings disappear under a 
vegetable regimen, which had been formed under a 
diet of animal food. 

Increasing the strength, for a time, is no proof of 
the salubrity of diet. The increased strength may 
not continue, though the diet should be continued. 
On the contrary, there is a sort of oscillation ; the 
strength just rising, then sinking again. — This is 
what is experienced by the trainers of boxers. A 
certain time is necessary to get these men into condi- 
tion; but this condition cannot be maintained for 
many weeks together, though the process by which 
it was formed is continued. The same is found to 
to hold in the training of race-horses, and fighting- 
cocks. 

It seems certain that animal food predisposes to 
disease. Timoric, in his account of the plague at 
Constantinople asserts that the Armenians who live 
chiefly on vegetable food, were far less disposed to 
the disease than other people. The typhus fever is 
gTeatly exasperated by full living. 



130 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and published numerous experiments, especially in 
chemistry, which is, with him, a favorite science j 
and it is said that he has spent fortunes in this way. 

t)r. L. is now seventy-three years of age, and has 
lived on a vegetable diet thirty-one years. He com- 
menced this course to cure himself of internal gout, 
and continued it because he found it better for his 
health. He is now only troubled with it slightly, 
at his extremities, which he thinks highly credita- 
ble to a vegetable coiirse — having, thrown it off 
from his vital organs. He is cheerful and active, 
and able to discharge the duties of an extensive 
medical practice. He walks into town, a distance 
of three miles from his residence,- every morning, 
and back at night ; and thinks himself jeus likely to 
live thirty years longer as he was, thirty years ago, 
to live to his present age. 

The following is a condensed account of Dr. L.'s 
views, as obtained from his " Additional Reports," 
above mentioned. Some of the first paragraphs 
relate to the effects of vegetable food on those who 
are predisposed to scrofula, consumption, (fcc. 

" We see daily examples of young persons be- 
coming consumptive who never went without ani- 
mal food a single day of their hves. If the use of 
animal food were necessary to prevent consumption, 
we should expect, where people lived almost entirely 
upon such a diet, the disease wouW be unknown. 

Now, the Indian tribes visited by Mr. Hearne live 
in this manner. They do not cultivate the earth. 
They subsist by hunting, and the scanty produce of 



BR. LAM.BE. 131 

spontaneous vegetation. But, among these tribes 
consumption is common. , Their diseases, as Mt. 
Hearne informs us, are principally fluxes, scurvy 
and consumption. 

In the last four years, several cases of glandular' 
swellings have occurred to me at th,e general dis- 
pensary, and I have made particular inquiries into 
the mode of living of such children. In the majori- 
ty, they had animal food. In opposition to the ac- 
cusation of vegetable food causing tumefaction of 
the abdomen, I must testify, that twice in my own 
family I have seen such swellings disappear under a 
vegetable regimen, which had been formed under a 
diet of animal food. 

Increasing the strength, for a time, is no proof of 
the salubrity of diet. The increased strengfth may 
not continue, though the diet should be continued. 
On the contrary, there is a sort of oscillation ; the 
strength just rising, then sinking again. — This is 
what is experienced by the trainers of boxers. A 
certain time is necessary to get these men into condi- 
tion; but this condition cannot be maintained for 
many weeks together, though the process by which 
it was formed is continued. The same is found to 
to hold in the training of race-horses, and fighting- 
cocks. 

It seems certain that animal food predisposes to 
disease. Timoric, in his account of the plague at 
Constantinople asserts that the Armenians who live 
chiefly on vegetable food, were far less disposed to 
the disease than other people. The typhus fever is 
gTeatly exasperated by full living. 



132 VEOETABLE DIET. 

It seems, moreover, highly probable that the 
power inherent in the hnmaa living body, <^ lesfaNr- 
ing itself under accidents or woimds, is strongest in 
those who use most a vegetable regimen. 

Contagions act with greater virulence upon bodies 
prepared by a full diet of animal food. 

Since fishing has declined in the isles of F^iOy 
and the inhabitants have lived chiefly on v^;etables, 
the elephantiasis has ceased among them. 

Those Monks who, by the rules of their institutioDy 
abstain from the flesh of animals, enjoy a long^ 
mean term of life, as the consequence. Of this there 
can be no doubt Of one hundred and fifty-two 
monks, taken promiscuously in all times and all sorts 
of climates, there hves produced a total, according to 
BaiUot, (a writer of eminence,) of 11,589 years, or an 
average of seventy-six years and a little more than 
three months. 

Those Bramins who abstain most scrupulous 
from the flesh of animals attain to the greatest 
longevity. 

Life is prolonged, under incuraUe diseases, about 
one-tenth by vegetable diet ; so that a person who 
would otherwise die at seventy, will reach seventy- 
seven. In general, however, the proportion is about 
one sixth. 

Abstaining from animal food palliates, when it 
does not cure, all constitutional diseases. 

The use of animal food hurries on life with an 
unnatural and unhealthy rapidity. We arrive at 
puberty too soon ; the passions are developed too 
early ; in the male, they acquire an impetniosity ap- 



DR. LAMBE. 133 

proaching to madness ; females b^ome mothers too 
early, and too frequently; and, finally, the system 
becomes .prematurely exhausted and destroyed, and 
we become diseased and old, when we ought to be 
in middle life. 

It affords no trifling ground of suspicion against 
the use of animal food that it so obviously inclines 
us to corpulency. Corpulency itself ifs a species of 
disease, and a still l^urer harbinger of other diseases. 
It is so even in animals. When a sheep has become 
fat, the butcher knows it must be killed or itivill rot 
and decline. It is rare indeed for thfe corpulent to 
be long lived. They are at the same time sleepy, 
lethargic, and short-breathed. Even Hippocrates 
says, "Those who are uncommonly fat, die more 
quickly than the lean." 

As a general rule, the florid are leiss healthy than 
those who have little color; an increase of color 
hiving ever beeti judged, by common sense, to be a 
sign of impending illness. Some, however, who are 
lean upon animal food, thrive upon vegetables, and 
improve in color. 

All the notions of vegetable diet affording only a 
deficient nutriment — notions which are counte- 
nanced hy the language of Cullen and other great 
physicians — are wholly groimdless. 

Man is herbivorous in his structure. 

I have o))iserved no ill consequences from the re- 
linquishment of animal food^ The apprehended 
danger of the change, with which men scare them- 
selves and their neighbors, is a. mere phantom of 
the imagina;tion. The danger, in truth, lie? wholly 
on the other sid& 

12 



194 VEGETABLE DIET. 

There is no organ of the bodyi whicbj under the 
use of vegetable food, does not receive an increase 
of 8^nsibility, or of that power which is tboi^fat to 
be imparted to it by the nervous system* 

Socrates, Plato, Zeno, Epicurus and others of the 
masters of ancient wisdom, adhered to the Pytha- 
gorean diet, (vegetable diet,) and are known to have 
arrived at old age, with the enjoyment of uninter- 
rupted health. Celsus afirn^ that the bodies which 
axe filled with much animal food, become the most 
quickly old and diseased. It was proverbial that the 
ancient athletse were the most stupid of men. The 
cynic Diogenes, being asked what was the cause of 
this stupidity, is reported to have answered, '' because 
they are wholly formed of the flesh of swine and 
oxen. Theophrastus says that feeding upon flesh 
destroys the* reason, and makes the mind more dull. 

Animal food is unfavorable to the intellectual 
powers. The effect is, in some measure, instanta- 
neous ; it being hardly possible to apply to any 
thing requiring thought after a full meal of meat ; 
so that it has been not improperly said of vegeta- 
ble feeders, that with them it is morning all day 
hr^* Byt the senses, the memory, the understand- 
ing and the imagination have also been observed, to 
improve by a vegetable diet. 

It will not be disputed that, for consumptive 
symptoms, a vegetable diet, or at Iqast a vegetable 
and milk diet is the most proper. 

It has been said, that the great fondness men 
have for animal food is proof enough that i^ature in- 
tend^ them to eat it. A? if men were n,ot ibnd of 



ink. Xambe. 135 

wine, ardent spirits, and other things which w'e know 
ciit short their days ! 

In every period of history it has bcfen kriowh that 
vegeftables alonfeare sufficient for the su^i)ort of life ; 
and the bulk of mankind live upon them at this 
hour. The adherence to the use of animal food is 
no more than a gross persistence in the customs of 
savage life, and an insensibility to the progress 
of rdason and the operation of intellectual im- 
provement. This habit must be considered as one 
of the numerous relics of that ancient barbarism; 
which has overspread the face of the globe, arid 
which still tAints the manners of civilized nations. 

The use of fermented liquors is, in some measure, 
a necessary concomitant and appendage to- the use 
of animal food. Animal food, in a great number 
of persons, Idads the stomach, cailses some degree 
of oppression, fulness and uneasiness; and, if the 
measure of it be in excess, some nausea and teiicien- 
cy to sickriessi Such persons say meat is too heavy 
for the stomach. Fish is still more apt to nauseate. 
The use of fermented liquors takes oflF these uneasy 
feelings, and is thought to assist digestion. In shortj 
in the use of animal food, nian having deviated 
from the simple aliment offered him by the hand of 
nature, and which is the best suited to his organs 
of digestion, he has brought upon himself a prema- 
ture decay, and much intermediate suffering con- 
nected with it. To this use of anita&I food almost 
tAl natioiis that have emerged from a state of tjttr- 
barisni, h^Ve tinitefl the use of spirittibus and ^i:- 
nientdd liqtioTS;^ 



136 TEGETABLE DIET. 

It is bot justice to Dr. L., howeTer, as the above 
was written by him twenty years ago, to say, that 
thoogfa be still adheres to the same views, he thinks 
pnre distilled water a very important addition to the 
vegetable diet, in the cnre of chronic diseases. 
The following are his remarks in a letter to Mr. 
Graham, dated abont a year ago. 

''My doctrine is, that for the preservation of 
health and more particularly for the successful 
treatment of chronic diseases, it is necessary- to at- 
tend to the whole ingesta — to the fiuid with as 
much care as the solid. And I am persuaded 
that the errors into which men . have faSXea with 
regard to supposed mischief or inconveniences, (as 
weakness, for example,) as resulting from a restric- 
tion to a vegetable diet, have, to a very considera- 
ble extent arisen from a want of a proper attention 
to the quality of the water they drank. So far 
back as the year 1803, 1 found that the use of pure 
distilled, instead of common water, relieved a state 
of habitual suffering of the stomach and bowels. 
On this account, I always require that distilled 
water shall be joined to the use of a vegetable diet ; 
and consider this to be essential to the treatment.'' 

PROFESSOR LAWRENCE. 

Professor Lawrence is the author of a work 
entitled Lectures on Physiology, Zoology, and the 
Natural History of Man. He is a member of the 
Royal College of Surgeons, London, Professor^ of 



PROP. LAWRENCE. I37 

Anatomy and Siirgery to the College, and Surgeon 
to several Hospitals. In his work above mentioned, 
after much discussion in regard to the natural diet- 
etic character of man, he thus remarks : — 

" That animal food renders man strong and coura- 
geous, is fully disproved by the inhabitants of north- 
ern Europe and Asia, the Laplanders, Samoiedes, 
Ostiacs, Tungooses, Burats, and Kamtschadales, as 
well as by the Esquimaux in the northern, and the 
natives of Terra del Fuego in the southern extremi- 
ty of America, which are the smallest, weakest, and 
least brave people of the globe, although Ihey live 
almost entirely upon flesh, and that often raw. 

Vegetable diet is as little connected with weakness 
and cowardice, as that of animal matter is with 
physical force andcourage. That men can he per- 
fectly 7iourishedy and their bodily and mental. ca- 
pabilities fully developed in any climate^ by a diet 
purely vegetable^ admits of abundant proof from 
experience. In the periods of their greatest sim- 
plicity, manliness, and bravery, the Greeks and Ro- 
mans appeal to have lived almost entirely on plain 
vegetable preparations. Indifferent bread, fruits, 
and other produce of the earth, are the chief nourish- 
ment of the modern Italians, and of the mass of the 
population in most countries in Europe. Of those 
more immediately known to ourselves, the Irish and 
Scotch may be mentioned, who are certainly not 
rendered weaker than their English fellow-subjects 
by their free use of vegetable aliment. The Ne- 
groes, whose gfeat bodily powers are well known, 

12* 



138 VEGETABLE DIET. 

feed chiefly on vegetable substances ; and the same 
is the case with the South Sea Islanders, whose 
agility and strength were so great that the stoutest 
and most expert English sailors had no chance with 
them in wrestling and boxing." 

The concession of Prof L., which I have placed 
in Italic, is sufficient for our purpose ; we ask no 
more. Nevertheless I am willing to h^ar his views 
of the indications afforded by our anatomical char- 
acter, which are, as will be seen, equally decisive 
in favor of vegetable eating. 

" Physiologists have usually represented that our 
•species holds a middle rank, in the masticatory and 
digestive apparatus, between the flesh-eating and 
herbivorous animals — a statement which seems 
rather to have been deduced from what we have 
learned by experience on the subject, than to result 
from an actual comparison of men and animals. 

The teeth and jaws of men are, in all respects, 
much more similar to those of monkeys than of any 
other animal. The number is the same as in man, 
and the form so closely similar, that they might 
easily be mistaken for human. In most of them, 
except the ourang-outang, the canine teeth are much 
larger and stronger than in us ; and so far, these 
animals have a more carnivorous character than 
man. 

Thus we findj that whether we consider the teeth 
and jaws, or the immediate instruments of digestion, 
the human structure closely resembles that of the 



FRaP. LAWRENCE. 139 

simise, (monkey race,) all of which, in their natural 
state, are completely herbivorous. Man possesses a 
tolerably large coecum, and a cellular colon ; which 
I believe are not found in any herbivorous animal. 

The oumng-outang naturally prefers fruits and 
nuts as the professor himself shows, by extracts from 
the statements of travellers and naturalists. He is 
also fond of bread. On board a ship or elsewhere, 
in confinement^ he may, however be taught, like 
men, to eat almost any thing ; — not only to eat milk 
and tsuck eggSj but even to eat raw flesh.'* 

^t is true, indeed, after all these foregping state- 
ments and concessions in regard to man's native 
character and the wholesomeness of a diet exclusive- 
ly vegetable — and after admitting that the human 
body and mind can be fully and perfectly nourished 
and developed on it, this distinguished writer goes on 
to say that it is still doubtful which diet — animal, 
vege^table or mixed, is on the whole most condu- 
cive to health, and strength — which is best calculat- 
ed to avert or remove disease — whether errors in 
quantity or quality are most pernicious, (fcc. He 
says the solution of these and other analogous ques- 
tions, can only be expected from experimental 
invesigation. — He proceeds to say, ^— 

" Mankind are so averse to relinquish their favor- 
ite indulgences^ and to desert established hahitSj 
that we cannot entertain very sanguine expectations 
of any important discovery in this department. We 
must add'to this, that there are many other causes 



140 YfiGETABLE DIET. 

affecting buman iiealfli, besides diet. Before yen- 
luring to draiir any inferences on a subject beset 
with so many obstacles, it would be necessary to 
observe the effects of a purely animal and a purely 
vegetable diet on several individuals of different 
habits, pursuits, and modes of life; to note their 
state, both bodily and mental; and to learn the 
condition of two or three generations fed in the 
same manner." 

Now, the only difference between this ofunion 
and what I conceive to be the truth in the case is, 
that just such experimental investigations as those 
to which he refers have, to all intents and purposes, 
been already made; as, I trust, will be distinctly 
shown in the sequel of this work. 

DR. SALGUES. 

Dr. Salgues, Physician, and Professoi^ of Anatomy, 
Physiology, &c. &c., to the Institute of France, 
some years ago wrote a book, entitled " Rules for 
Preserving the Health of the Aged," which con- 
tained many very judicious remarks on diet. There 
is nothing in the volume, however, which is decid- 
edly in favor of a diet exclusively vegetable, unless 
it is a few anecdotes; — and I have introduced his 
name chiefly as a sort of authority for those anec- 
dotes. They are the following : — 

" Josephus informs us that the Essenes were very 
long lired ; many lived npwardsiofi one' hundred 



AUTHOR ^P ^^SURK METHODS." 141 

years, solely from their simple habits and sobriety. 
Aristotle and Plato speak of Herodicus the philoso- 
pher, who, although of a feeble and consumptive 
habit, lived, in consequence of his sobriety, upwards 
of one hundred years. Phabrinus", mentioned by 
Athenius, lived more than one hundred years, drink- 
ing milk' only. Zoroaster, according to PUny, 
remained twenty years in a deser-t, living on a small 
quantity of cheese only* " . 

THE AUTHOR OP " SURE METHODS," ETC. 

The British author of " Sure Methods of Improv- 
ing Health and Prolonging Lifcj" supposed by. many 
to be the distinguished Dr. Johnson, speaks thus : — 

"It must be confessed that^ in temperate climates, 
at least, an animal diet is, in one respeqt more 
wasting than a vegetable, because it excites, by its 
stimulating qualities, a temporary fever after every 
meal, by which the springs oif life are urged into 
constant, preternatural, and weakening exertions. 
Again ; persons who live chiefly on animal food are 
subject to various acute and fatal disorders, as the 
scurvy, malignant ulcers, inflammatory fevers, &c.>- 
and are likewise liable to corpulency, more especial- 
ly when united to inordinate quantities of Uquid 
aliment. ; There appears to be also a tendency in 
an animal diet to promote the formation of many 
chronic diseases; and we seldoin find those who 
indulge much in this diet to be remarkable for 
longevity. 



142 yEGEtA&LE DIET. 

Ill favor of vegetables, it may be justly said, that 
man could hardly live entirely on animal food, but 
we know he may on vegetable. Vegetable aliment 
has likewise no tendency to produce those constitu- 
tional disorders which animal food so frequently 
occasions. And this is a great advantage, more 
especially in our country, (he means in Great 
Britain,) wher^ the-general sedentary mode of living 
so powerfully contributes to the formation and estab- 
lishment of numerous severe chronic maladies. Any 
unfavorable effects vegetable food may have on the 
body, are almost wholly confined to the stomach and 
bowels, and rarely injure the system at large. This 
food has also a beneficial influence on the powers 
of the mind, and tends to preserve a delicacy of 
feeling, and liveliness of imagination, and acuteness 
of judgment, seldom enjoyed by those Who live 
principally on meat. It should also be added, that 
a vegetable diet, when it consists of articles easily 
digested, as potatoes, turnips, bread, biscuit, oat-meal, 
&c., is certainly favorable to long Kfe." 

BARON CUVIER.* 

. . Perhaps it is not generally known that Baron 
Cuvier, the prince of naturalists, in the progress of 
his researches came to the most decisive conclusion, 
that, so far as anything can be ascertained or proved 
by the investigation of science in regard to the nat- 

* Catier was not a medical man, but I have classed him with 
medical men, on account of his profound knowledge of Comparative 
Anatomy and Physiology. 



9AR0N CUYIRR. 143 

Ural, dietetic character of man, he is a fruit and 
vegetable eater. I have tiot seen 'his own views; 
but the following are said,, by an intelligent writer, 
to be a tolerably faithful transcript of them; and to 
be derived from his Comparative Anatomy. 

"Man resembles no carnivorous animal. There 
is no exception, unless man be one, to the rule of 
herbivorous animals having cellulated colons. 

The ourang-outang perfectly resembles man, both 
in the order and number of his teeth. The ourang- 
outang is the most anthropomorphous of the ape 
tribe, all of which are strictly frugivorous. There 
is no, other species of animals, which live on differ- 
ent food, in which this analogy exists. In many 
frugivorous animals, the . canine teeth are more 
pointed and distinct than tho^ of man. The re- 
semblance also of the human stomach to that of the 
ourang-outang, is greater than to that of any other 
animaL 

The intestines ieu'e also identical with those of 
herbivorous animals, which present a large surface 
for absorption, and have ample and cellulated 
colons. The coecum also, though short, is larger 
than that of carnivorous animals ; and even here 
the ourang-outang retains its accustomed similarity. 

The structure of the Tiuman frame, then^ is that of 
one fitted to a pure vegetable diet, in every essential 
particular. It is true^ that the reluctance to abstain 
fronv animal fopd, in those who have been, long 
accustona^ to its stimulus, js sor great in some per-> 
sons of we^ininday as to be; scarcely overcome, jj 



144 VEGETABLE DIET. 

buf^this is far from being any argument iti its favor. 
A iamb, which was fed for some time on flesh by a 
ship's crew, refused its natural diet at the end of the 
voyage. There are numerous instances of horses, 
sheep, oxen, and even wood-pigeons, having been 
taught to live upon flesh, until they have loathed 
their natural aliment." 

No one will deny that Baron Cuvier was in favor 
of flesh eating; but it was not because he ever be- 
lieved, for one moment, that man was naturally a 
flesh-eating animal. Man is^ a reasoning animal, 
(he argues,) and intended to be so. If left to the 
guidance'of his instincts, the same yielding to the 
law of his structure which would exclude flesh 
meats, should also exclude cookery. Or, in other 
words, if he is not permitted to depart from the line 
of life which his structure indicates, he must no 
more cook his vegetables than eat animal food. 
Besides^, he is made, as Cuvier supposes, for artificial 
society, and" the Creator designed him to improve 
his food ; and, if I underhand his reasoning, he is 
better able, with his present structure of teeth, jaws, 
stomach, intestines, &c., to make this improvement, 
and rise above his nature, and yield to the force and 
indications of reason and experience, than if he 
possessed any other known living structure. 

To this structure, however, as well as to the same 
power of ada;:tation, lh3 monkey race, and especially 
the omang-outang closely approximates. Cuvier's 
reasoning, in my vicvv, applies only to the adapta- 
bility (if I may be allowed the expression) of the 



DR. BELL. 146 

human animal, without deciding how far he should 
avail himself of his power to make changes. 

DR. LUTHKR V. BELLr 

I have alluded, in another part of this work, to the 
prize essay of Dr. Bell, awarded to him by the 
Boylston Medical Committee on the subject of the 
diet of laborers in New England. Dr. Bell is a 
physician of respectable talents, and is at present the 
Physician to an Insane Hospital in Gharlestown, 
near this city. 

Dr. Bell admits, with the most distinguished 
naturalists and physiologists of Europe, — Cnvier, 
Lawrence, Blumenbach, Bell of London, Richerandi 
Marc, &c., — that the structure of man resembles 
closely that of the monkey race ; and hence objects 
to the conclusion to which some of these men have 
arrived, (by jumping over, as it were,) that man is 
an omnivorous animal. He freely allows — I use 
his own words — " that man does approximate more 
ck)sely to the frugivorous animals than to any 
others, in physical organization." But then he 
insists that the conclusion which ought to be drawn 
from this similarity '< is, that he is designed to have 
his food in about the. same state of mechanical co- 
hesion, requiring about the same energy of mastica- 
tory organs, as if it consisted of fruits, &c. alone."' 

But, wherefore should we draw even this con- 
clusion, if structure and instinct prove nothing, 
and if we are to be governed solely by reason, with- 
out regard to structure and instinct? For my own 
13 



146 VEGETABLE DIET. 

part, I believe veason is never true reason, when it 
turns wholly out of doors either instinct or the 
indications of organization. In other wor()s, an 
enlightened reason wouldv look both to the structure 
and organization of man, and to a large and broad 
experience for the solution of a question so impor- 
tant as what diet is, on the whole, best for man. And 
the experience of the world, both in the present and 
all former ages, leads me to a conclusion entirely 
different from that to which Dr. Bell, and those who 
entertain the same views with him, seem to have 
arrived -r. a conclusion which is indicated by struc- 
ture, and confirmed by facts and universal experi- 
ence. But this subject will be farther discussed and 
developed in-atiother place. It is sufficient for my 
present purpose, to bring testimony in favor of the 
safety of vegetable eating, and of the doctrine that 
man is naturally a vegetable and fruit-eatitig ani- 
mal; and especially if I produce, to this end, the 
testimony of flesh-eaters themselves. 

DR. WILLIAM BUCHAN, AUTHOR OP " DOMESTIC 

MEDICINE." 

"Indulgence in animal food, renders^ men dull 
and unfit for the pursuits of science, especially when 
it is accompanied with the free use of strong liquors, 
lam inclined to think that consumptions, so common 
in England, are, in part, owing to the great use of. 
animal food. But the disease most common to this 
country is the scurvy. One finds a dash of it ito 
almost every family, and in some the tamt is very 



DR. BUCHAK. 1:47 

deep. A disease so general must hava a general 
cause, and there is none so obvious as the great 
quantity of animar food which is devoured. As 
a proof that scurvy arises from this cause, we 
are in possession of no remedy for that disease ^quai 
to the free use of fresh vegetables. By the unin- 
terrupted use of animal food, a putrid diathesis is 
induced in the. system, which predisposes to * vari- 
ety of disorders. -I am fully convinced that many 
of those obstinate compl^nts for which we are at a 
loss to account, and which we find it still more diffi- 
cult to cure, are the effects of a scorbutic taint, lurk'- 
ing in the habit. 

The choleric disposition of the English is almost 
proverbial. Were I to assign a cause, it would be, 
their living so m\ich on animal food. There is no 
doubt but this induces a ferocity of temper unknown 
to men whose food is taken chiefly from the vege- 
table kingdom.* , 

Experience proves that not a few of the diseases 
incident to the inhabitants of this country, are owing 
to their mode of living. The vegetable productions 
they consume, fall considerably short of the propor- 
tion they ought to bear to. the animal part of their 
food. — The major part of the aliment ought to 
consist of -vegetable substances. There is a contin- 
ual tendency in animal food, as well as in the human 
body itself, to putrefaction ; which can only be coun- 
teracted by the free use of vegetables.. All who 
value health, ought to be contented with making one 

* " Unless," as a^ writer in the Graham Journal very justly 
observes, " these latter indolge, habitually and freely, in the use of 
intoxicating substances.'' 



148 VEGETABLE DIET. 

meal of animal food in twenty-four hours ; and this 
ought to consist of one kind only. 

The most obstinate scurvy has often been cured 
by a vegetable diet ; nay, milk alone, will frequent- 
ly do Qiore in that disease than any medicine. 
Hence it is evident that if vegetables and milk were 
more used in diet, we should have less scurvy, and 
likewise fewer putrid and inHamoiatory fevers. 

Such as abound with blood, (and such are almost 
all of us,) should be sparing in the use of every 
thing which is highly nourishing — as fat meat, rich 
wines, strong ales, and the like. Their food should 
consist chiefly of bread and other vegetable sub- 
stances ; and their drink ought to be water, whey, 
or small beer." 

J 

Dr. B. also insists on a vegetable diet, as a pre- 
ventive of many diseases ; particularly of consump- 
tion. When there is a tendency to this disease, in 
the young, he says " it should be counteracted by 
strictly adhering to a diet of the farinacea, and ripe 
fruits. Animal food and fermented liquors ought 
to be rigidly prohibited. Even milk often proves 
too nutritious. " 

DR. CHARLES WHITLAW.^ 

Dr. Whitlaw is the author of a work entitled 
"New Medical Discoveries," in two volumes, and 
of a " Treatise on Fever." He has also established 
medical vapor baths in London, New York, and 
elsewhere ; and is a gentleman of much skill and 
eminence in his profession. Dr. Whitlaw says,—- 



DR. WHITLAW. 149 

"AH philosophers^ have given their testimony in 
favor of vegetable food, from Pythagoras to Franklin. 
Its beneficial influence on the powers of the mind 
has been experienced by all sedentary and literary 
men. . 

But, that which ought to convince every one of 
the salubrity of a diet consisting of vegetables, is the 
consideration of the dreadful effects of totally ab- 
staining from it, unless it be for a very short time ; 
accounts of which we meet with, fully and faith- 
fully recorded, in the most interesting and most 
authentic narratives of human tiffairs — wars, sieges 
of places, long encampments, distant voyages, the 
peopling .of uncultivated and maritime countries, 
remarkable pestilences, and the lives of illustrious 
men. To this cause the memorable plague at 
Athens was attributed ; and indeed all the other 
plagues and epidemical distempers, of. which we 
have any faithful accounts, will be found to have 
originated in a deprivation of vegetable food. 

The only objections I have ever heard urged, 
(the only plausible ones, he must -mean, I think,) is 
the notion of its inadequacy to the sustenance of (he 
body. But this is merely a strong prejudice into 
which the generality of mankind have fallen, owing 
to their ignorance of the laws of life and health. 
Agility and constant vigor of body are the effect of 
health, which is much better preserved by a her- 
baceousj aqueous, and sparing tender diet, than by 
one which is fleshy, vinous, unctuous, and hard of 
digestion. 

So fully were the Romans, at one time, persuaded 
13* 



160 VEGETABLE DIET. 

of the superior goodness of vegetable diet, that, be- 
sides the private example of many of their great men, 
they established laws respecting food, among which 
were the lex fannia^ and the lex licmia^ which 
allowed but very little animal food ; and, for a period 
of five hundred years, diseases were banished along 
with the physician from the Roman empire. — Nor 
has our own age been destitute of examples of men, 
brave from the vigor both of their l)odies and their 
minds, who at the same time have been drinkers 
of water and eaters of vegetables.' 

Nothing is more certain than that animal food is 
inimical to health. This is evident from its stimu- 
lating qualities producing, as it were, a temporary 
fever after every meal ; and not only so, but from 
its corruptible qualities it gives rise to many fatal 
diseases \ and those who indulge in its use seldom 
arrive at an advanced age. 

We have the authority of the Scripture for assert- 
ing that the proper aliment of man is vegetables. 
See Genesis. And as disease is not mentioned as 
a part of the cause, we have reason to believe that 
the antediluvians were strangers to this evil. Such 
a phenomenon as disease could hardly exist among 
a people who lived entirely on a vegetable food ; con- 
sequently, ail the individuals made mention of in 
tfiat period of the world, are said to have died of 
old age; whereas, since the day of Noah, when 
mankind were permitted to eat animal food, such 

* Sach was Gen. EUiot, so distingoished at the famous siege of 
Qibraltar. Sach, too, was Mr. Shillitoe, of whom honorable men- 
Uon will be made in another place ; — besides many more. 



DR. WtilTLAW. 151 

an occurrence as a pian dying of old age, or a 
natural decay of the bodily functions, does not gccur 
probably once in half a century. 

Its injurious effecfs on the mind are equally cer- 
tain. The Tartars, who live principally on animal 
food, are cruel and ferocious in their dispo^tion, 
gloomy and sullen minded, delighting in extermina- 
ting wars and plunder; whilst the Bramins and 
Hindoos, who live entirely on vegetable aliment, 
possess a mildness and gentleness of character and 
disposition directly the reverse of the Tartar ; and I 
have no doubt, had India possessed a more popu- 
lar form of government, and a more enlightened 
priesthood, her people, with minds so fitted for con- 
templation, would have far outstripped the other 
nations pf the. world in manufactures, and in the 
arts and sciences. 

But we need only look at the peasantry of Ireland, 
who, living as they do, chiefly on a vegetable, — and 
to say the least of it, a very suspicious kind of ali- 
ment, I mean the potatoe — are yet as robust and 
vigorous a race of men as inherit any portion qL 
the globe. 

. The greater part of our bodily disease is brought 
on by improper food. This opinion has been 
strongly confirmed by my daily experience in the 
treatment of those diseases to which the people. of 
England are peculiarly subject, such as scrofula, 
consumption, leprosy, &c. These disorders are 
making fearful and rapid strides ; so much so, that 
not a single family may now be considered exempt 
from their melancholy ravages." 



152 TEOBTABLE DIET. 

This if iearful testiiiiony, bat it is die lesnk of 
much oimerytAion and of twenty years' expmeneeC 
But the same causes are produciDg the same efibds, 
«-« at least, so far as scrofula and consampCioD are 
concerned — in this country, at the present time, q€ 
which I>r, W. complains so loudly in England. I 
could add much more from his writings, bat what I 
have said is sufficient. 

DR. JAMES CLARK. 

Dr. Clark, physician to the king and queen of 
Belgium, in a Treatise on Pulmonary Consumpticm, 
has the foltowing remarks : — 

<< There is no greater evil in the management of 
children than that of giving them animal diet very 
early. By persevering in the use of an over-stimu- 
lating diet, the digestive organs become irritated, 
and the various secretions immediately connected 
with and necessary to digestion are diminished, es- 
pecially the biliary secretion ; and constipation of the 
bowels and congestion of the abdominal viscera suc- 
ceed. Children so fed, moreover, become very liable 
to attacks of fever and of inflammation, afiecting 
particularly the mucous membranes ; and measles 
and the other diseases incident to childhood are 
generally severe in their attack." 

The suggestion that a mild or vegetable diet will 

render certain diseases mcident to childhood more 

^ than otherwise they would be, is undoubtedly 



BR. CLARK. — PROF. MVSSET. 163 

an important one; and as just as it is important. 
But he remark might be extended, in its application. 
Both children and adults would escape all sorts of 
diseases, especially colds and epidemics, with much 
more certainty, or, if attacked, the attacks would 
be much more mild, on ' an exclusively vegetable 
diet than on a mixed one. Dr. Clark does not, in- 
deed, say so ; but I may say it, and with confidence. 
And Dr. C. could not probably show any reason 
why, on his own principles, it should not be so. . 

PROP. MUSSE"r, OF DARTfMOUTH COLLEGE. 

Prof. R. D. Mussey, of Hanover, New Hamp- 
shire, whose science and skill as a surgeon- and phy- 
sician are well known and attested all over New 
England, has for many years taught, both directly 
and indirectly, in his public lectures,, that man is 
naturally a fruit and vegetable eater. This he 
proves, first, from the structure of his teeth and in- 
testines — next frpm his physiological character, 
and finally, from various facts and considerations 
too numerous to detail here. 

He thinks the Bible doctrines are in favor of the 
disuse of flesh and fish; that the Jews were requir- 
ed to abstain from pork, and from all fat and blood, 
foi: physiologicsJ ,no less than other reasons. — Aa 
infant, he says, naturally has a disrelish for animal 
food. — He says that, in all probability, animal food 
was not permitted, though used, before the flood ; and 
that its use, contrary to the wish of the Creator, was 
probably one caase of human degeneracy. Animal 



164 VEGETABLE DIET. 

food, he says, id apt to produce diseases of the skin 
— makes people passionate and violent — excites 
the nervous system too much — renders the sens* 
es and faculties more dull — and favors the ac- 
cumulation of what is called tartar on the teeth, 
and thus causes their early but certain decay. The 
blood and breath of carnivorous animals emit an 
unpleasant odor, while those of vegetable eaters 
do not. The fact that man does eat flesh, no 
more proves its necessity, than the feet that cows 
and sheep and horses can be taught it, proves its 
necessity to them. The Africans bear the cold 
better the first winter after their arrival in a north- 
ern climate, than afterward. May not this be ow- 
ing to their simple vegetable living? 

DRS. BELL AND CONDIE, OF PHILADELPHIA. 

The Journal of Health, edited by some of the 
ablest physicians of Philadelphia, has the following 
remarkable language on the subject of vegetable 
food. See^vol. 1, page 277. 

"It is well known that vegetable substances, par- 
ticularly the farinaceous, are fully sufficient, of them- 
selves, for maintaining a healthy existence. We^ 
biave every reason for believing, that the fruits of 
the earth constituted, originally, the only food of 
man. Animal food is digested in a much shorter 
period than vegetables ; from which circumstance, 
as well as its approaching much nearer in its 
oompofiition to the substance of the body into 



I>RS« BELL AND CONDIE. ljS6 

which it is to be converted, it might at fitst be 
supposed the most appropriate article of nourish- 
ment. It has, however, been found that vegetable 
matter can be as readily and perfectly assimilated 
by tlie stomach into appropriate nutriment] qs the 
most tender animal substance ; and confessedly with 
a less heating effect upon the system generally. 

As a general rule, it will be found that those 
who make use of a diet consisting chiefly of 
vegetable matter, have a vast advantage in looks^; 
strength, and spirits, over those who partake largely 
of animal food. They are remarkable for the firm, 
healthy plumpness of their muscles, and the transpa- 
rency of their skins. This assertion, though at 
variance with popular opinion, is amply supported 
by experience." 

At page 7 of the same volume of the Journal of 
Health, we find the following remarks. The edir 
tors were alluding to those persons who think they 
cannot preserve their health and strength, without 
flesh or fish, and who believe their children would 
also sufier without it. 

" For the information of all such misguided per- 
sona^ we beg leave to state, that the large majority 
of mankind do not eat any animal food, oj, if any^ 
they use it so sparingly and at such long intervals, 
that it cannot be said to form their nourishment 
Millions in Asia are sustained by rice alone, with 
perhaps a little vegetable oil for seasoning. 

In Italy and southern Europe, generally, t»ead 



166 VEQETABLE DIET. 

Xpade of the flour* of wheat or Indian corn, with 
lettuce and the like mixed with oil, constitutes the 
food of the most robust part of its population. 

The Lazzaroni of Naples, with forms so active- 
ly and finely proportioned, cannot even calculate on 
this much. Coarse bread and potatoes is their chief 
reliance. Their drink of luxury is a glass of iced 
water, slightly acidulated. 

Hundreds of thousands — we might say millions 
— of Irish, do npt see flesh meat or fish from one 
week's end to another. Potatoes and oatmeal are 
their articles of food — if milk can be -added, it is 
thought a luxury. Yet, where shall we find a more 
healthy and robust population, or one more endur- 
ing of bodily fatigue, and exhibiting more mental 
vivacity? What a contrast between these people 
and the inhabitants of the extreme north — the timid 
Laplanders, Esquimaux, and Samoideans, whose 
food is almost entirely animal ? " 

Again, at page 187, we are told that . 

"The more simple the aliment, and the less altered 
by culinary processes, the slower is the change in 
digestion, but, at the same time, the less is the stim- 
ulation, and wear of the powers of life. The Bramins 
of Hindostan, who live on exceedingly simple food, 
are long livers, even in a hot and exhausting 
climate. The peasants of Switzerland and of Scot- 
land, nourished on bread, milk, and cheese, attain a 
very old age, and enjoy great bodily strength, 
' Where diere is too much excitement of the body, 



DR. SMITH. 157 

generally, from fulness of the blood-vessels, or of any- 
one of the organs, owing to a wrong direction of the 
blood to it, (and in one or the other of these condi- 
tions we find almost everybody, now-a-days,) animal 
food, by being long retained in, the stomach, and 
calling into greater action other parts, during diges- 
tion, as well as furnishing them with more blood 
afterwards, must be obviously improper. The more 
of this kind of food is taken under such circumstan- 
ces, the greater will be the oppression; and the 
weakness, different from that of a healthy person 
long hungered, will only be increased by the increas- 
ed amount of blood carried to the diseased part." 

It is true that the editors of the Journal of Health 
connect with the foregoing paragraphs the statement 
that " if it be desired to give nutriment in a small 
bulk, to obtund^completely the sensation of hunger, 
and restore strength to the .body, a small quantity 
of animal will be preferable to much vegetable 
food." But then it is only in a few diseased cases 
that any such thing is desirable. And even then, if 
we look carefully at the language used, the compari- 
son is not made between animal, and vegetable food 
in moderate or reasonable quantities, but between a 
small quantity of the former, and much of the 
latter. 

DH. J. V. C. SMITH, OF BOSTON. 

The following remarks are extracted from the 
Boston Medical Intelligencer, at a period when Dr. 

14 



TEGETABI.E DIET. 

J. T. C. Smidi V25 the editor, lliey hare Ifae ap- 
peaxanoe of being ^m Dr. Smith's own pen. Dr. 
IB. is ai present the editor of the BosbMi Medical and 
Surgical Jooinal. 

« It is trae,* that animal food contains a greater 
portion of nntriment, in a giren quantity, than vege- 
tables ; bat the digestire fimctions of die hnman sys- 
tem become prematarely exhausted by constant 
action, and the whole s]rstem erentnally sinks under 
great or oninterrapted excitement. If, fi>r the vari- 
ous ragouts with which modem taUes are so abun- 
dantly furnished, men would substitute vholesonie 
vegetables^ and pure waier^ we should see health 
walking in paths that are now crowded with the 
bloated victims of voluptuous app^ite. Millions of 
Gentoos have lived to an' advanced age without 
having tasted any thing that ev^ possessed life, 
and been wholly free from a chain of maladies 
which have scourged every civilized naticm on the 
globe. The wandering Arabs, who have traversed 
tfie barren desert of Sahara, subsisting on the scanty 
pittance of milk from the half-famished camel that 
carried them, have seen two hundred years roll 
round without a day of sickness." 

SYLVESTER GRAHAM. 

Although Mr. Graham does not, so far as I know, 
lay claim to the " honors " of any medical institution, 

♦ 80 he thinlw ; bat I think otherwise. Animal food, as I have 
•bown eljiewhere, if not half so nutritipns as some of the feui^a- 
ceotM vegetables. 



SYLVESTER GRAHAM. 159 

it cannot be doubted that his knowledge of physiolo- 
gy, to say nothing of anatomy, pathology, and 
medicine, is such as to entitle him to a high rank 
among medical men ; and I have, therefore, without 
hesitating, concluded to insert his testimony in this 
place. 

Of his views, however, on the subject before us, 
it seems almost superfluous to speak, as they are 
set forth, and have been set forth for many years, so 
conspicuously, not only in his public lectures, but in 
his writings, that the bare mention of his name, in 
almost any part of the country, is to awaken the 
prejudices if not the hostilities of every foe, and of 
some friends,, (supposed friends, I mean,) of "tem- 
perance in all things." It is suflScient, perhaps, for 
my present purpose^ to say of him, that, after the 
most rigid and profound exaniiination of the subject, 
which he is capable of making — and his capabili- 
ties are by no means very limited — it is his unhesi- 
tating belief that in every climate and in all circum- 
stances in which it is proper for man to be placed, 
an exclusively farinaceous and fruit diet is best 
adapted to the development and improvement of 
all his powers of body, mind, and soul ; provided, 
however, he were trained to it from the first. And 
even at any period of life, unless in the case of cer- 
tain forms of diseases, he beheves it would be pref- 
erable to exchange, in a proper manner, every form 
of mixed diet for one purely vegetable. Such opin- 
ions as these, as a part of his views, in relation to 
the physical duties of man, he pubUcly, and stren- 
ously, and eloquently announces and defends. 



160 VEGETABLE DIET. 



DR. JOHN M. ANDREW. 

Dr. Andrew is a practitioner of medicine in 
Remsen, Oneida county, state of New York. His 
letter was intended for chapter IV., but came too 
late. This fact is the only apology for inserting it 
in this place. Several interesting cases of dietetic 
reform accompanied the letter, but I must omit 
diem, for want of room, in this work. 

Remsen, April 28, 1^. 

Dear Sir, — It is now about sixteen months 
since I adopted an exclusively vegetable diet. I 
have, however, never been very much inclined to 
animal food ; and, indeed, before I ever heard of the 
Graham system, I laid aside, during summer, when 
&rming, which, by the by, had always been my 
occupation till I commenced my professional course, 
about four years ago. I have, to the best of my 
knowledge, enjoyed what is commonly called good 
health, and possessed a degree of strength surpassed 
only by few ; and in connexion with the assiduous 
cultivation of my mental faculties, I have carefully 
sought to improve my physical powers, which I 
deem of incalculable worth to the student, as well as 
to the laborer. 

My attention was first called to the subject of 

vegetable eating by Prof. Mussey, in a lecture before 

he medical class of the Western Medical College of 

Xew York, while fulfilling the duties of the profes- 



DR. ANDREW. 161 

sorship, to which he was called in 1836. In that 
lecture, our adaptations and the design of the Crea- 
tor in regard to our mode of subsistence were clearly 
held forth, and such was the impr^sion made on 
my mind, that I was induced at once to adopt the 
vegetable system, both in practice and theory. In 
my change of diet, I did not suffer any inconven- 
ience. Ttie fact that I had, for some length of time, 
been living mostly on vegetables, will account for 
that circumstance, however. 

But the great advantages derived from the change 
were soon perceptible, though not appreciated by oth- 
ers. I met with much opposition from my friends ; 
frequently being told that I was fast losing my flesh, 
and all my youthful vigor and vivacity. And yet, 
for one year and more, I have not lost a pound of 
flesh. . 

I was gazed upon as an anomaly in society ; some 
anxiously looking, and others fearfully expecting 
my downfall and destruction; but both are alike 
disappointed. The system, though I have not been 
able to follow it so strictly as I could wish, from the 
circumstances in which I have been placed, has fisu: 
exceeded my expectations. One year and more has 
rolled away, and I thank God I can look back with 
some degree of satisfaction on the time spent in the 
enjoyment of that alone which sweetens the cup of 
life. . My most able advocacy has been my manual 
exertions; and I have demonstrated the utility of 
the system^ alike tojhe professional and laboring 
classes of community. 

I do not go beyond the truth when I say that I 
14* 



163 VEGETABLE DIET. 

cannot find a man to vie with me in the field, with 
the scythe, the fork, or the axe. I do not want 
anything but potatoes and salt, and I can cut and 
put up four cords of wood in a day, with no very 
great exertion. I have frequently been told, by 
friends, that my potatoe and salt system would not 
stand the test of the field ; but I have silenced their 
clamor by actual demonstration with all the imple- 
ments above named. At present, no consideration 
would induce me to return to my former mode of 
living. John M. Andrew. 



DR. WILLIAM SWEETSER, OP BOSTON. 

Dr. Sweetser is the author of a " Treatise on 
Consumption," and of a " Treatise on Digestion." 
He has also been a medical professor in the Uni- 
versity of Vermont, and a public lecturer, on Health, 
in Boston. 

In his work on Consumption, while speaking of 
the prevailing belief of a necessity for the use of 
animal food to those children who possess the scrof- 
ulous or consumptive tendency, he thus remarks : — 

" A diet of milk and mild farinaceous articles, 
with, perhaps, light animal decoctions, appears best 
suited to the early years of life. Whenever there 
exists an evident inflammatory tendency, as is the 
case in some scrofulous systems, solid animal food, 
if used at all, should be taken with the greatest 
precaution. And again ; how often is it that fat, 



DR. SWEETSER. 163 

plethoric, meat-eating children, their faces looking 
as though the blood was just ready to ooze oat, are 
with the greatest complacency exhibited by their 
parents as patterns of health ! But, let it e^er be 
remembered, that the condition of the sjrstem pop- 
ularly called rude or full health, and which is the 
result of high feeding, is too often closely bordering 
on a state of disease." 

In his work on Digestion, he seems to regard 
man as naturally an omnivorousanimal ; and, tak- 
ing this for granted, he speaks as follows respect 
ing his diet: — 

" One wjould hardly assert that even in temperate 
climates, his (man's) system requires animal food. 
I doubt whether any instance can be adduced — 
unless man be regarded as siich — of an omnivo- 
rous animal incapable of being adequately nour- 
ished by a sufficient and proper vegetable diet. 

Man, dwelling in a temperate climate, and with 
the power to choose, almost uniformly employs a 
mixture of animal and vegetable food ; but how 
much early education may have to do in forming 
his taste for a mixed diet, it is difficult to estimate. 
Habit has certainly great influence in attaching us 
to particular kinds of aliment. One who has long 
been accustomed to animal food, cannot at once ab- 
stain from it without experiencing some feebleness for 
want of its stimulation, and perhaps even tempora- 
ry emaciation. And, on the other hand, he who 
has long been confined to a vegetable diet is apt to 



164 VEGETABLE DIET. 

lose his relish for flesh, aad, on recurring suddonlj 
to its use, to find it too exciting. 

The liberal use of animal food has been gener- 
ally thought requisite, in arctic climes, to stimulate 
the functions, and thus furnish a more abundant 
supply of animal heat, to preserve against the ex- 
tremity of external temperature. Northern voy- 
agers mostly believe that fat animal food and oils 
are essential to the maintenance of health and life, 
in the inhabitants of those frozen regions. But to 
me it would seem that their habits, in respect to 
diet, prove the capabilities rather than the necessi- 
ties, of their systems. They learn to eat their 
coarse fare, because they can get no other. Their 
food, moreover, as is generally the case in savage 
life, is precarious ; and thus, being at times exposed 
to extreme want, they are stimulated to greater 
excesses when their supplies are ample. 

The fact of man's dwelling in them, (the arctic 
regions,) and eating what he can get there, no 
more proves him to be naturally a flesh-eating 
animal, than the circumstance of som<e cattle learn- 
ing to eat fish, when they are in situations where 
they can obtain no other, proves them to be pisciv- 
orous. 

Haller conceived it necessary that human life 
should be sustained by animal food, so apportioned 
that neither should be in excess; and he asserts 
that abstinence from animal food causes great weak- 
ness in the body, and usually a troublesome diar- 
rhoea. But such an opinion is certainly incorrect, 
since not only particular individuals, but even num- 



DR. SWEETSER. 165 

bers of people, dwelling in temperate climates, from 
various causes, subsist almost wholly on vegetable 
substances, and yet preserve their health and vigor. 
Were we educated to its exclusive use, I am 
persuaded that a vegetable diet would afford us 
ample support ; but whether, if restrained from ani- 
mal food, we should, as a consequence^ in the course 
of .time, and under equally favoring circumstances 
in other respects, rise still higher in our ^ moral 
and physical nature, remains, as I conceive, to be 
proved." 

These views of Dr. S. were repeated, in sub- 
stance, in a course of lectures given by him at the 
Masonic Temple, in Boston, last winter. It will 
be seen that he concedes what the friends of the 
vegetable system deem a very important point, 
viz. that man's whole powers, physical, intellectu- 
al and moral, can be well developed on a diet ex- 
clusively vegetable. We do not ask him to grant 
more. If man is as well off on vegetable food as 
without it, we have moral reasons of so much 
weight to place against animal food, as, when du- 
ly considered, will be, by all candid persons, suffi- 
cient to lead to its rejection* 

True, we do not believe, with Dr.'S., — at least 
I do not, — that " whether a diet purely vegetable, 
or one comprehending both animal and vegetable 
food, would be most conducive to health, longevity 
and intellectual, moral and physical development, 
is a question only to be determined by a long course 
of experiments made by various individuals in equal 



166 VEGETABLE DIET. 

health, and placed, in all other respects, under as 
' nearly similar circumstances as practicable." I be- 
lieve this course of experiment does not remain to be 
made; but that it has been made, most fully, during 
the last four or five thousand years, and that the 
question is settled in favor — wholly so — of vegeta- 
ble food. Still I do not ask the physicians and other 
medical men to grant more than Dr. S. has ; it is 
quite as much as we ought to expect of them. 

DR. A. L. PIERSON. 

Dr. Pierson, of Salem, in Massachusetts, a physi- 
cian and surgeon of considerable eminence, in a 
lecture some time ago, before the American Institute 
of Instruction, observed that " young men who were 
anxious to avail themselves of the advantages of a 
liberal education, and were therefore compelled to 
consult economy, had found out that it was not ne- 
cessary to pay three or four dollars a week for mere 
board, when the most vigorous and uniform health 
may be secured by a diet of mere vegetable food and 
water." 

I know not that Dr. P. avows himself an advo- 
cate for the exclusive use of vegetable food ; but if 
what I have quoted is not enough to satisfy us in 
regard to his opinion of its safety and its full power 
to develope body and mind, I know not what would 
be. If the most vigorous and uniform heahh can 
be secured on vegetable food, what individual in the 
world — in view of the moral considerations at 
least — would ever resort to the carcasses of ani- 
mals? 



PHYSICIAN IN NEW YORK. 167 



STATEMENT OP A PHYSICIAN OP PHILADELPHIA. 

A physician of some eminence, now residing in 
Philadelphia, has Jbeen heard to say that it was his 
decided opinion that mankind would live longest 
and be healthiest and happiest on mere bread and 
water. I may add here, that there was every evi- 
dence but one that he was Sincere in this stateoaent, 
although I do not fully accord with him — believ- 
ing that the best health requires variety of food, not 
indeed at the same meal, but at different ones. The 
exception I make in regard to his sincerity, is in ref- 
erence to the fact, that while he professed to believe 
a bread and vegetable diet to be best for mankind, 
he did not adopt it. 

TESTIMONY OF A PHYSICIAN IN NEW YORK. 

In the work entitled " Hints to a Fashionable 
Lady," by a Physician — his name not given — we 
find the following testimony : — 

" Young persons invariably do best on simple, but 
moderately nutritious fare. Too large a proportion 
of animal food and fatty substances are pepnicious 
to the complexion. On the contrary, a diet which 
is principally vegetable, with the luxuries of the 
dairy, (not butter, surely, for that is elsewhere pro- 
hibited,) is most advantageous. No where are finer 
complexions to be found, than in those parts of 
England, Scotland and Ireland where the liviur '" 
almost exclusively vegetable. 



168 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Those who subsist entirely on vegetable food 
have seldom, if ever, a constantly bad breath, or an 
offensive perspiration. It has been ascertained that 
the teeth are uniformly best in those countries 
where least animal food is used." 

THE female's cyclopedia. 

From a foreign volume, entitled ." The Female's 
Cyclopedia," I have concluded to make the follow- 
ing extract, because I have reason to believe the 
writer to have been a physician : — 

" Animal food certainly gives most strength ; but 
its stimulancy excites fever, and produces plethora 
and its consequences. The system is sooner worn 
out by a repetition of its stimuli, and those who 
indulge greatly in such diet are more likely to be 
carried off early by inflammatory diseases. Or if, 
by judicious exercise, they qualify its effects, they 
yet acquire such an accumulation of putrescent 
fluids, as becomes the foundation for the most invet- 
erate chronic diseases in after age. 

The most valuable state of the mind, however, 
appears to be connected with somewhat less of firm- 
ness and vigor of bo9y. Vegetable aliment, as 
never over distending the vessels or loading the 
system, does not interrupt the stronger emotions of 
the mind ; while the heat, fulness, and weight of 
animal food are inimical to its vigorous exertion. 
Temperance, therefore, does not so much consist in 
the quantity —since the appetite Will regulate that— 



DR. VAN COOTH.-^DR« BBAVMONT. X69 

as in the quality ; namely^ in a large proportion of 

vegetable aliment." 

DE. VAN COOTH. 

Dr. Van Cooth, a learned European writer — I 
believe a Hollander — has recently maintained, in- 
cidentally, in a learned medical dissertation, that the 
great body of the ancient Egyptians and Persians 
" confined themselves to a vegetable diet." To be 
sure, Dr. V. does not seem to be a vegetable eat#r 
himself; but the friends of the latter system are, not 
the less indebted to him for the concession. The 
physical and moral superiority of those vegetable 
eating nations, in the days of their glory, are well 
known ; and every intelligent reader of history, and 
honest inquirer after truth, will make his own in- 
ferences from the facts which I have n^entioned. 

DR. WM. BEAUMONT. 

The work of this gentleman, Entitled "Experi- 
ments and Observations on the Gastric Juice, and 
the Physiology Digestion," is well known — at least 
to the medical community. The following are 
some of the conclusions to which hi^ experiments 
conducted him : — 

" Solid aliment, thoroughly masticated, is far more 
salutary than soups, broths, (fcc. 

Fat meats, butter, and oily substances of every 
kind, are difficult of digestion, oflfensive to thd 

15 



170 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Stomach, and tend to derange that organ, and induce 
disease. 

Spices, pepper, stimulating and heating condi- 
ments of every kind retard digestion, and injure the 
stomach. 

CofTee and tea debilitate the stomach, and impair 
digestion. 

Simple water is the only fluid called for by the 
wants of the economy ; the artificial drinks are all 
more or less injurious — some more so than others ; 
but none can claim exemption from the general 
charge." 

If it should be said that this testimony of Dr. 
Beaumont is by no means directly in favor of a diet 
exclusively vegetable, I admit it. But he certainly 
goes very far towards conceding every thing which 
I claim, when he says that <<fat meats, butter and 
oily substances of every kind are difficult of diges- 
tion, offeiisive to the stomach, and tend to derange 
that organ and induce disease ; " and especially 
when he speaks so highly of farinaceous substances 
and good fruits. Pray what animal food can be 
eaten which does not contain, at least, a small quanti- 
ty of oil? And if this oil tends to induce disease, 
and farinaceous food does not, why should not 
animal food be excluded ? 

SIR EVERARD HOME. 

This distinguished philosopher and medical gen- 
tleman, though, like many others, he insisted that 



SIR EVERARD HOME. 171 

vegetable food did not produce full muscular devel- 
opment ; yet admitted the natural character of man 
to be that of a vegetable eater, in the following or 
nearly the following terms : — 

" In the history of man, in the Bible, we are told 
that dominion over the animal world was bestowed 
upon him at his creation ; but the divine permission 
to indulge in animal food was not given till after 
the flood. The observations I have to make accord 
strongly with this tradition ; for, while mankind re- 
mained in a state of innocence there is every ground 
to believe that their only food was the produce of 
the vegetable kingdom." 



CHAPTER VI. 



TESTIMONY OF PHILOSOPHERS AND OTHER 

EMINENT MEN. 

Gefteral Remarks. Testimony of Plautus. Plutarch. Por- 
phyry. Lord Bacon. Sir Wm. Temple. Cicero. Cyrus the 
Great. Prof. Hitchcock. Lord Kaims. Dr. Thomas Dick. 
Prof. Bush. Thomas Shillitoe. Alexander Pope. Sir Rich- 
ard Phillips. Sir Isaac Newton. The Abbe Gallani. Homer. 
Dr. Franklinj Mr. Newton. Prof Ferguson. Howard the 
Philanthropist. Gen. Elliot. Encyclopedia Americana. Thomr 
as Bell, of London. Linnaeus, the Naturalist. Shelly, the Poet. 

GENERAI, REMARKS. 

This chapter might have been much more 
extended than it is. I might have mentioned, for ex- 
ample, the cases of Daniel and his three brethren, at 
the court of the Babylonian monarch, who certainly- 
maintained their heahh — if they did not even im- 
prove it — by vegetable food, and by a form of it, 
too, which has by many been considered rather 
doubtful. I might have mentioned the case of 
Paul, who, though he occasionally appears to have 
eaten flesh, said, expressly, that he would abstain 
from it while the world stood, where a great moral 
end was to be gained ; and no one can suppose he 



PLAUTUS. 173 

would have done so, had he feared any injury would 
thereby Tesult to his constitution of body or mind^ 

The case of Wm. Penn, if I remember . rightly 
what he says in his " No Cross no Crown," would 
have been in point. Jeflferson, the second .president 
of the United States, was, according to his own story, 
almost a vegetable eater, during the whole of his 
long life. He says he abstained principally from 
animal food ; using it, if he used it at all, only as a 
condiment for his vegetables. And does anyone, 
who has read his remarjcs, doubt that his "convic- 
tions " were in favor of the exclusive use of vegeta- 
ble food? 

However,- to prevent the volume from much ex- 
ceeding the limits originally assigned it, I will be 
satisfied — and I hope the public will — with the 
following selections of testimonies, ancient and mod- 
ern-; some of more, some of less importance ; but all 
of them, as it appears to me, worthy of being collect- 
ed and incorporated into a volume like this, and 
faithfully and carefully examined. • 

PLAUTUS. 

N. 
- * \ 

Plautus, a distinguished dramatic Roman writer, 
who flourished about two thousand years ago, gives 
the following remarkable testimony against the use 
of animal food, and of course in favor of the salu- 
brity of vegetables ; addressed, indeed, to his own 
countrymen and times, but scarcely less applicable 
to our own : — 

9 

" You apply the term wild to lions, panthers, and 
16* 



174 VEGETABLE DIET. 

serpents; yet, in your own savage, slaughters^ yon 
surpass them in ferocity; for the blood shed by 
them is a matter of necessity, and requisite for their 
subsistence. 

But, that man is not, by nature, destined to de- 
voiir animal food, is evident from the construction of 
the human frame, which bears no resemblance to 
wild beasts or birds of prey. Man is not provided 
with claws or talons, with sharpness of fang or tusk, 
so well adapted to tear and lacerate ; nor is his 
stomach so well braced and muscular, nor his ani- 
mal spirits so warm as to enable him to digest this 
solid mass of animal flesh. On the contrary, nature 
has made his teeth smooth, his mouth narrow, and 
his tongue soft ; and has contrived, by the slowness 
of his digestion, to divert him from devouring a 
species of food so ill adapted to his frame and con- 
stitution. But, if _you still maintain that such is 
your natural mode of subsistence, then follow nature 
in your mode of killing your prey, and employ 
neither knife, hammer, or hatchet — but like wolves, 
bears, and lions, seize an ox with your teeth^ grasp 
a boar round the body, or tear asunder a lamb or a 
hare, and, like the savage tribe,- devour tliem still 
panting in the agonies of death. ^ 

We carry our luxury still farther by the variety 
of sauces and seasonings which we add to our beast- 
ly banquets — mixing together oil, wiiie, honey, 
pickles, vinegar, and Syrian and Arabian ointments 
and perfumes, as if we intended to bury and embalm 
the carcasses on which we feed. The diflibulty of 
digesting such a mass of matter, reduced in our 



PLUTA&CH. 176 

storpachs to a state of liquefaction and putrefaction, 
is the source of endless disorders in the human 
frame. 

First of all, the wild mischievous animals were 
selected for food ; and then the birds and fishes were 
dragged to slaughter ; next, the human appetite 
directed itself against the laborious ox, the useful 
and fleece-bearing sheep, and the cock, the guardian 
of the house. At last, by this preparatory discipline, 
man became matured for human massacres, slaugh- 
ters, and wars." 

PLUTARCH> 

" It is best to .accustom ourselves to eat no flesh 
at all ; for the earth affords plenty enough of things 
not only fit for nourishment, but for enjoyment and 
delight — some of which may be eaten without 
much preparation, and others may be made pleasant 
by adding divers other things to them. 

*You ask me,' continues Plutarch, ^for what 
reason Pythagoriis abstained from eating the flesh 
of brutes ? ' For my part I am astonished to think, 
on the contrary, what appetite first induced man to 
taste of a dead carcass ; or what motive could sug- 
gest the notion of nourishing himself with flesh of 
animals which he saw, the moment before, bleating, 
bellowing, walking and looking around them. How 
could he bear to see an impotent and defenceless 
creature slaughtered, skinned and cut up for food ? 
How could he endure the sight of the , convulsed 
Umbs and muscles? How bear the smell arisi 



176 VEGETABLE DIET. 

from Ihe dissection ? Whence happened it tha( he 
was not disgusted and struck with horror, when he 
came to handle the bleeding flesh, and clear away 
the clotted blood and humors from the wounds ? 

We should therefore rather wonder at the conduct 
of those who first indulged themselves in this horri- 
ble repast, than at such as have humanely abstained 
from it." 

PORPHYRY, OP TYRE. 

Porphyry, of Tyre, lived about the middle of the 
third century, and wrote a book on abstinence from 
animal food. This book was addressed to ari indi- 
vidual who had once followed the vegetable system, 
but had afterward relinquished it. The following is 
an extract from it : -* 

"You owned, when you lived among us, that a 
vegetable diet was preferable to animal food, both 
for preserving health and for facilitating the study 
of philosophy; and now, since you have eat flesh, 
your own experience must convince you that what 
you then confessed was true. It was not from 
those who lived on vegetables that robbers or mui:- 
derers, sycophants or tyrants have proceeded ; but 
from flesh-eaters. The necessaries of life are few 
and easily acquired, without violating justice, liberty, 
health, or peace of mind; whereas, luxury obliges 
those vulgar souls, who take delight in it, to covet 
riches, to give up their liberty, to sell justice, to 
mispend their time, to ruin their health, and to re- 
nounce the joy of an upright conscience." 



PORPHYRY. 177 

He takes pains to persuade inen of the truth of 
the two following propositions : — 

1st. « That a conquest over the appetites and 
passions will greatly contribute to preserve health 
and to remove distempers. 

- 2d. That a simple vegetable food, being easily 
procured and easily digested, is a mighty help to- 
ward obtaining this conquest over ourselves." 

To prove the first proposition, he appeals to expe- 
rience, and proves that many of his acquaintance 
who had disengaged themselves from the ^care of 
amassing riches, and turning their thoughts to spir- 
itual subjects, had got rid entirely of their bodily 
distempers. 

In confirmation of the second proposition, he ar- 
gues in the following manner : — '< Give me a man 
who considers, seriously, what he is, whence he 
came, and whither he must go, and from these con- 
siderations resolves not to be led astray nor gov- 
erned by bis passionst ; and let such a man tell me 
whether'a rich animal diet is more easily procured 
or incites less to irregular passions and appetites 
than a light vegetable diet ! But if neither he, nor 
a physician,' nor indeed any reasonable man whatso- 
ever, dares to affirm this, why do we oppress 
ourselves with animal food, and why do we not, 
together with luxury and flesh meat, throw off the 
iQQUmbrances and snares which attend them ? " 



178 VEGETABLE DIET. 



LORD BACON. 

Lord Bacon, in his treatise on Life and Death, 
says, — "It ^eems to be approved by experience 
that a spare and almost a Pythagorean diet, such 
as is prescribed by the strictest monastic life, or prac- 
tised by hermits, is most favorable to long life." 

SIR WILLIAM TEMPLE. 

" The patriarchs' abodes were not in cities, but in 
open countries and fields. Their lives were pasto- 
ral, and employed in some sorts of agriculture. 
They were of the same race, to which their mar- 
riages were generally confined. Their diet was 
simple, as that of the ancients is generally represent- 
ed. Among them fiesh and wine were seldom used, 
except at sacrifices on solenm feasts. 

The brachmans, among the old Indians, were all 
of the same races, lived in fields and in woods, after 
the course of their studies wa§ ended, and fed only 
upon rice, milk and herbs. 

The Brazilians, when first discovered, lived the 
most natural, original lives of mankind, so firequent- 
ly described in ancient countries, befbre laws or 
property or arts made entrance among them ; and 
so their customs may be concladed to have been yet 
more simple than either of the other two. They 
lived without business or labor, further than for their 
necessary food, by gathering fruits, herbs and plants. 
They knew no other drink but water; were not 



WM. TEMPLE. — CICERO. — CYRUS. 179 

tempted to eat or drink beyond comnion appetite 
and thirst ; were not troubled with either public or 
domestic cares, and knew no pleasures but the most 
simple and natural. 

From all these examples and customs, it may 
probably be conduded that the common ingredients 
of health and long life are, great temperance, open 
air, easy labor, little care, simplicity of diet, — rather 
fruits and plants than flesh, which easier corrupts — 
and water, which preserves the radical moisture 
without too much increasing the radical heat. 
Whereas sickness, decay, and death proceed com- 
monly from the one preying too fast upon the other, 
and at length wholly extinguishing it." 

CICERO. 

This eminent man sometimes, if not usually, con- 
fined himself to vegetable food. Of this we have 
evidence, in his complaints about the refinements of 
cookery — that they were continually tempting him 
to excess, <fcc. He says, that after having withstood 
all the temptations that the noblest lampreys and 
oysters could throw in his way, he was at last over- 
powered by paltry beets and mallows. A victory, 
by the way, which, in the case of the eater of plain 
food, is very often achieved. 

CYRUS THE GREAT. 

This distinguished warrior was brought up, like 
the inferior Persians, on bread, cresses, and water ; 



180 VEGETABLE DIET* 

and, notwithstanding the temptations of a luxurious 
and voluptuous court, he rigorously adhered to bis 
simple diet. Nay, he even carried his simple hatats 
nearly through life with him; and it was not till 
he had completely established one of the largest and 
most powerful empires of antiquity that he began to 
yield to the luxuries of the times. Had he pursued 
his steady course of temperance through life, the 
historian, instead of recording his death at only 
seventy, might have told us that he died at a hun- 
dred or a hundred and My. 

PROP. HITCHCOCK. 

This gentleman, a distinguished professor in Am- 
herst College, is the author of a work, entitled " Dys- 
pepsia Forestalled and Resisted," which has been 
read by many, and execrated by not a few of those* 
who are so wedded to their lusts as to be unwilling 
to be told of their errors. 

I am not aware that Professor H. has any where 
in his writings urged a diet exclusively vegetable, 
for all classes of the community ; although I believe 
he does not hesitate to urge it on all students ; 
and one might almost infer, from his works of 
various kinds, that if he is not already a believer in 
the doctrines of its universal superiority to a mixed 
diet, he is not very far from it. Be this as it may, 
however, — for I cannot undertake to determine this 
matter, — no one can read candidly his work on 
dyspepsia, without deriving nciany valuable ideas 
from it. I propose to add here a few anecdotes of 
his, which I know not how to find elsewhere. 



PEOF« HITCHCOCK. 181 

<< Pythagoras restricted himself to vegetable food 
altogether — his dinner being bread, honey, and 
water; and he lived upwards of eighty years. 
Matthew, (St. Matthew, I suppose he means,) accord- 
ing to Clement, lived upon vegetable diet. Galen, 
one of the most distinguished of the ancient physi- 
cians, lived one hundred and forty years, and com- 
posed between seven and eight hundred essays on 
medical and philosophical subjects ; and he was al- 
ways, after the age of twenty-eight, extremely 
sparing in the quantity of his food. The Cardinal 
de Salis, Archbishop of Seville, who lived one hun- 
dred and ten years, was invariably sparing in his 
diet. One Lawrence, an Englishman, by temper- 
ance and labor lived one hundred and forty years ; 
and one Kentigern, who tiever tasted spirits or wine, 
and slept on the ground and labored hard, died at 
the age of one hundred and eighty-five. Henry 
Jenkins, of Yorkshire, whb died at the age of one 
hundred and sixty-nine, was a poor fisherman, as 
long as he could follow this pursuit ; and ultimately 
he became a beggar, living on the coarsest and most 
sparing diet. Old Parr, who died at the age of one 
hundred and fifty-three, was a farmer of extremely 
abstemious habits, his diet being solely milk, cheese, 
coarse bread,, small beer, and whey. At the age of 
one hundred and twenty hie married a second wife, 
by whom he had a child. But being taken to court, 
as a great curiosity, in his one hundred and fifty- 
second ye&r, he very soon died — as the physicians 
deeidedly testified after his dissection, in con^e* 
quence of a change firom a parsimonious to a plenti- 
.16 



188 TBQBTABLB DIBT. 

fill dieL Hemy Francisco, of this cooBtry, who 
lived to about (Hue hundied and forty, was, except 
fi» a certain period, remarkaldy abetemkms, eating 

but little, and particularly abstaining almosi aitirely 
firom animal food; his fiBivorite articles being lea, 
bread and butter, and baked apides. Mr. Ephraim 
Pratt, of Sbutesbury, Mass., who died at the age of 
one hundred and seventeen years, lived very much 
upon milk, and that in small quantity; and his son 
Michael Pratt, attained to the age of one hundred 
and three, by similar means." 

Speaking in another place, of a milk diet, Prof. H. 
observes that <^ a diet chiefly of milk produces a inost 
happy serenity, vigor, and cheerfulness of mind; 
very diflerent from the gloomy, crabbed and irritaUe 
temper and foggy intellect of the ijian who devours 
flesh, fish, and fowl, with ravenous appetite, and 
adds puddings, pies, and cakes, to the load." 

LORD KAtMS. 

Henry Home, otherwise called Lord Kaims, the 
author of the "Elements of Criticism," and of "Sia^ 
Sketches on the History of Man," has, in the latter 
work, written nearly seventy years ago, the follow- 
ing statements respecting the inhabitants of the 
torrid zone. ^ 

" We have no evidence that either the hunter 
or shepherd state were ever known there. The 
inhabitants at present subsist upon vegetable food, 
and probably did so from the beginning." 



LORP KAiMS.. 183 

In speaking of particular nations or tribes of this 
zone, he tells us that "the inhabitants of Biledulgerid 
and the defsert otSahara have but two meals a day, 
one in the morning and one in the evening ; " and 
" beiiig temperate,' ' he adds, << and stranger? to the 
diseases of luxury and idleness, they generally live to 
a great age." * %Sixty, with them, is the prime of life, 
as thirty is in Europe. ^, Some of the inlsmd tribes of 
Africa," he says, ^^ make but one meal a day, which 
is in the evening." . And yet " their diet is plain, 
consisting mostly of rice, fruits and roots. An in- 
habitant of Madagascar will travel two or three days 
without any other food than a sugar-cane." So also, 
he might have added, will -the Arab travel many 
days and at almost, incredible speed, with nothing 
but a little gum arabic ; and the Peruvians and other 
inhabitants of South America^ with a Uttle parched 
corn. But I have one more extract from Lord 
Kaims. 

" The island of Otaheite is healthy, the people tall 
and well made; and by temperance — vegetables 
and fish being their chief nourishment — they Uve 
to good old age, with scarcely any aliment. There 
is no such thing known among them as rotten 
teeth ; the very smell of wine or spirits is disagreea- 
ble ; and they never deal in tobacco or spieeries. 
In many places, Indian corn is the chief nouniA- 
ment, which every man plants for himself.'' 

* Instances, he says, are not rare, (but this I doabt,) of two hun- 
dred children bom to a man by his different wives, in some parts 
of the interior (^ Africa. 



184 VEGETABLE DIET. 



DR. THOMAS DICK. 

Dr. Dick, author of the PhUosophy of Religion, 
and several other works deservedly popular, gives 
this remarkable testimony : — 

^< To take the life of any sensitive being, and to • 
feed on its flesh, appears incompatible with a state of 
innocence, and therefore no such grant was given 
to Adam in paradise, nor to the antediluvians. It 
appears to have been n grant suited only to the de-* 
graded state of man, after the deluge; and it is 
probable that as he advances in the scale of moiti 
perfection in the future ages of the world, the use of 
animal food will be gradually laid aside, and he witt 
return again to the productions of the vegetable 
kingdom, as the original food of man, as that which 
is best suited to the. rank of rational and moral intel- 
ligence. And perhaps it may have an influence, 
in combination with other favorable circumstan<;es, 
in promoting health a|id longevity." 

PROF. Gt^ORGJE BUSH. 

Prof Bush, a writer of some eminence, in his 
Notes on Genesis, while speaking of the penliission 
to man in regard to food, in Gen. i. 29, has the fol- 
lowing language : — 

"It is not, perhaps, to be understood, from the 
use of the word give^ that a permission was nov 



PROF. BUSH. — -THOS. SHILLltOB. 186 

granted to man, of using that for food, which it 
would have been unlawful for him to use without 
that permission ; for, by the very constitution of his 
being, he was made to be sustained by that food 
which was most congenial to his animal economy ; 
and this it must have been lawful for him to employ, 
unless self-destruction had been his duty. The true 
import of the phrase, therefore, doubtless is, that God 
had appointed J constituted^ ordained this, as the 
staple article of man's diet. He had formed him 
with a nature to which a vegetable aliment was 
better suited than any other. It cannot, perhaps, 
be inferred from this language that the use of flesh 
meat was absolutely forbidden ; but it clearly im- 
plies that the fruits of the field were the diet most 
adapted to the constitution which the Creator had 
given." - 

THOMAS SHILLITOE. 

Mr. Shillitoe was a distinguished member of the 
Society of Friends, at Tottenham, near London. 
The first twenty-five years of his life were spent in 
feeble health, made worse by high living. This 
high living was continued about twenty years 
longer, when, finding himself fast failing, he yielded 
to the advice of a medical friend, and abandoned 
all drinks but water, and all food but the plainest 
kinds, by which means he so restored his constitu- 
tion that he Uved to be nearly ninety years of age ; . 
and at eighty could walk with ease from Tottenham 
to London, six miles, and back again. The follow- 
16* 



186 VKGETABLlft DIET. 

ing is a brief account of this distinguished man, 
when at the age of eighty ; and nearly in his own 
words : — 

" It is now thirty years since I ate fish, flesh, or 
^owl, or took fermented liquor of any kind whatso- 
ever. I find from continued experience that absti- 
nence is the best medicine. I don't meddle with 
fermented liquors of any kind, even as medicine. I 
find I am capable of doing better without them than 
when I was in the daily use of them. * . 

One way in which I was favored to experience 
help in my willingness to abandon all these things, 
arose from the efiect my abstinence had on my 
natural temper. My natul-al disposition is very 
irritable. I am persuaded that ardent spirits and 
high living, have more or less effect in tending to 
raise into action those evil propensities which, if 
given way to, war against the soul, and render us 
displeasing to Almighty God." 

ALEXANDER POPE. 

Pope, the poet, ascribes all the bad passions and 
diseases of the human race to their subsisting on the 
flesh, blood, and misieries of animals. " Nothing," 
he says, *if can be i^iore shocking and horrid than one 
of our kitchens sprinkled with blood, and abounding 
with the cries of creatures expiring, or with the 
limbs of dead animals scattered or hung up here and 
there. . It gives one an image of a giant's den in 
romance, bestrewed with the scattered heads and 



POPE. — PHILLIPS.T-NEWTON. 187 

mangled limbs of those who were slain by his 

cruelty." 

-^ ■ ' • . ■ 

SIR RICHARD PHILLIPS. 

Sir Richard Phillips, in his Million of Facts, says 
that << the mixed and fanciful diet of man is consid- 
ered as th^ cause of numerous diseases, from which 
animals are exempt. Many diseases have abated 
with changes of natural diet, and others are virulent 
in particular countries, arising from peculiarities. 
The Hindoos are considered the freest fironi disease 
of any part of the human race. The laborers on 
thie African coast, who go from tribe to tribe to 
perform the manual labor, and whose strength is 
wonderful, live entirely on plain rice. The Irish, 
Swiss, and Gascons, the slaves of Europe, feed also 
on the simplest diet ; the former chiefly on potatoes." 

He states, also, that the diseases of cattle often 
afflict those who subsist on them. '<In 1599," he 
observes, " the Venetian 'government, to stop a fatal 
disease among the people, prohibited the sale of 
meat, butter or cheese, on pain of death." 

SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 

This distinguished philosopher and mathemati- 
cian is said to have abstained rigorously, at times, 
from all but purely vegetable food, and from all 
drinks but water ; and it is also stated that some of 
his important labors were performed at these seasons 



188 VEGETABLE DIET. 

of Strict temperance. While writing his treatise on 
Optics, it is said he confined himself entirely to 
bread, with a little sack and water*; and I have no 
doubt that his remarkable equanimity of temper and 
that government of his animal appetites, throughout, 
for which he was so distinguished to the last hour 
of his life, were owing, in no small degree, to his 
habits of rigid temperance. 

THE ABBE GALLA^I. 

The Abbe Gallani ascribes all social crimes to 
animal destruction — thus, treachery to angling and 
ensnaring, and murder to hunting and shooting. 
And he asserts that the man who would kill a 
sheep, an ox, or any unsuspecting animal, would, 
but for the law, kill his neighbor. 

HOMER. 

Even Homer, three thousand years ago, says Dr. 
Cheyne, could observe that the Homolgians — these 
Pythagoreans, these milk and vegetable eaters — 
were the longest lived and the honestest of men. 

DR. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. 

Dr. Franklin, in his younger days, often, for some 
time together, lived exclusively on a vegetable diet, 
and that, too, in small quantity. During his after 
life he also observed seasons of abstinence fi«om ani- 
mal food, or lents, as he called them, of considerable 



DR. FRANKLIN. — MR. NEWTON. 189 

length. His food and drink were, moreover,' espe- 
cially in early life, exceedingly simple; .his meal 
often consisting of nothing but a bisciiit and a slice 
of bread, with a bunch of raisins, abd perhaps a 
basin of gruel. Now Dr. F. testifies of himself 
that he found his progress in science to be in pro^ 
portion. to that clearness of mind and aptitude of 
conception, which can only be produced by total 
abstinence from animal food. He also derived 
many other advantages from his abstinence, both 
physical and moral. 

MR. NEWTON. 

This author wrote a work, entitled " Defence of 
Vegetable Regimen." It is often quoted by Shelly 
the poet, and others. I know nothing of the 
author or of his works, except through Shelly, 
who gives us some of iiis views, and informs Us that 
seventeen persons, of all ages, consisting of Mr. 
Newton's family and the family of Dr. Lambe, who 
Is elsewhere mentioned in this work, had, at thei 
time he wrote, lived seven years on a pure vegeta- 
ble diet, and without the slightest illness. Of the 
seventeen, some of them were infants ; and one of 
them was almost dead with asthma when the expe- 
riment was commenced, but was already nearly 
cured by it ; and of the family of Mr. N., Shelly 
testifies that they were " the most beautiful and 
healthy creatures it is possible to eonceive " — the 
girls << pelr&ct ' models for a sculptor;" and their 
dispositions << the most gentle and conciliating." 



190 VEOBTABL& DIET. 

The following paragraph is extracted from Mr. 
Newton's "Defence," and will give us an idea of 
his sentiments. He was speaking aC the fable of 

Prometheiis : ^— 

" Making allowance for such trattqK>sition of the 
events of the allegory as time might produpe after 
the important truths were forgotten, the drift of the 
fable seems to be this : — Man, at his creation, was 
endowed with the gift of perpetual youth ; that is^ 
he was not formed to be a sickly, suffering creature^ 
as we now see him, but to enjoy health, Mid to 
sink by slow degrees into the bosom of his parent 
earth, without disease or pain. Prometheus first 
taught the use of animal food, and of fire, with 
which to render it more digestible and pleasing* to 
the taste. Jupiter and the rest of the gods, foresee- 
ing the consequences of these inventions, were 
amused or irritated at the short-sighted devices of 
the newly-formed creature, and left him to expe- 
rience the sad effects of them. Thirst, the necessary 
concomitant of a flesh diet, ensued ; other drink 
than water was resorted to, and man forfeited the 
inestimable gift of health, which he . had received 
from heaven; he became diseased, the partaker of 
a precarious existence, and no longer descended 
to his grave slowly." 

PROF. FERGUSON. 

I 

Prof. Adam Ferguson, an individual not unknown 
in the literary world, was, till he was fifty years of 
age, regarded as quite healthy. Brought up in 



PROF. FERGUSON. 191 

• 

fashionable society, he was yety often invited to 
fashionable dinners and parties, at which he ate . 
heartily, and drank wine — sometimes several bot- 
tles. Indeed, he habitually ate and drank freely ; 
and, as he had by nature a very strong constitution, 
he thought nothing which he ate bt drank injur- 
ed him. 

Things weqt on in this manner, as I have al- 
ready intimated, till he was fifty years of age. One 
day, about this time, haying made a long journey 
in the cold^ he returned very much fatigued, and in 
this condition went to dine with a party, where he 
ate and drank in his usual manner. 3.oon after din- 
ner, he was seized with a fit of apoplexy, follow- 
ed by f alsy ; but by bleeding, and other energetic 
measures, he was partially restored.. 

He was now, by the direction of. his physician, 
put upon what was called a low diet. It consisted 
of vegetable food and milk. For nearly forty years 
he tasted no meat, drank nothing but wate^ and a 
little weak: tea, and took no suppers. If^he ven- 
tured, at any time, upon more stimulating food or 
drink, he soon had a full pulse, and hot, restless 
nights. His bo web, however, seemed to be much 
affected by the fit of palsy; and not being inclin- 
ed, so far as I can learn, to the use of fruit and 
coarse bread, he was sotnetimes compelled to use 
laxatives. ^ 

When he was about seventy years of age, how- 
ever, all his paralytic symptoms had disappeared ; 
and his health Was so excellent, for a person of 
his years; as to excite universal admiration. This 



192 VEGETABLE DIET. 

continued till he was neariy ninety. Ws mind, np 
to this time, was almost as entire as in his younger 
dajrs; none of his bodily functions, except his 
sight, were much impaired. So perfect, indeed, was 
the condition of his physical frame 5 that nobody, 
who had not known his history, would have sus- 
pected he had ever been apoplectic or paralytic. 

When about ninety years of age, his health began 
slightly to decline. A little before his death, he 
began to take a little meat. This, however, did not 
save him — nature being fairly worn out. On. the 
contrary, it probably hastened his dissolution. His 
bowels became irregular, his pulse increased, and 
he fell into a bilious fever, of which he died at the 
great age of ninety-three. 

Probably there are, on record, few cases of lon- 
gevity more instructive than this. Besides showing 
the evil tendency of living at the expense of life, 
it also shows, in a most striking manner, the effects 
of simple and unstimulating food and drink, even 
in old age ; and the danger of recurring to the use 
of that which is more stimulating in very advanced 
life. In this last respect, it confirms the experience 
of Cornaro, who was made sick by attempting, in 
his'old age, and at the solicitation of kind friends, 
to return to the use of a more stimulating diet ; and 
of Parr, who was destroyed in the same way, after 
having attained to more than a hundred and fifty 
years. 

But the. fact that living at the expense of life, 
cuts down, here and there, in the prime of life, or 
even at the age of fifty, a few individuals, though 



HOWARD. — GEN. XLIOTT. 193 

this of itself is no trivial evil, is not all. Hatf of 
what we call the infirmities of old age — and thus 
charge them upon Him who made the human frame 
subject to age — have their origin in the same 
source; I mean in .ihvs living too fast, and ex- 
hausting prematurely the vital powers. When will 
the sons of men learn wisdom in this matter? 
Never, I fear, till they are taught, as commonly 
as they now are reading and writing, the principles 
of physiology. 

HOWARD, THE PHILANTHROPIST. 

Although individual cases of abstinence from 
animal food prove but little, yet they prove some- 
thing in the case of a man so remarkable as John 
Howard. If he, with a constitution not very strong, 
and in the midst of the greatest fatigues of body 
and mind, could best sustain himself on a bread and 
water, or br^ad and tea diet, who is there that 
would not be well sustained on vegetable food ? 
And yet it is certain that Howard was a vegetable 
eater for many years of the latter part of his Ufe ; 
and that had he not exposed himself in a rep^ark- 
able manner, there is no known rdkson why he 
might not have Ijasted with a constitution no better 
than his was, to a hundred years of age. 

GEN. EHOTT. ► 

The following extract exhibiti^, in few words^ the 
dietetic history of that brave and wise conftnandffir, 
17 



194 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Greneral George Augustus Eliott, of the British 
army : — 

" During the whole of his active life, Gen. Eliott 
had inured himself to the most rigid habits of order 
and watchfulness ; seldom sleeping more than four 
hours a day, and never eating any thing but vege- 
table food, or drinking any thing but water. Dur- 
ing eight of the most anxious days of the memorable 
siege of Gibraltar, he confined himself to four 
ounces of rice a day. He was universally regarded 
as one of the most abstemious men of his age. 

And yet his abstemiousness did not diminish his 
vigor ; for, at the above-mentioned siege of Gibraltar, 
when he was sixty-six years of age, he had nearly 
all the activity and fire of his youth. Nor did he 
die of any wasting disease, such as full feeders 
are wont to say men bring upon them by (heir 
abstinence. On the contrary, owing to a hereditary 
tendency, perhaps, of his family, he died at the age 
of seventy-three, of apoplexy." 

ENCYCLOPEDIA AMERICANA. 

The following testimony is from the Encyclo- 
pedia. I do not sup|x)se the writer was the friend 
of a diet exclusively vegetable; but his testimony 
is therefore tlie more interesting. His only serious 
mistake is in regard to the tendency of vegetable 
food to form weak fibres. 

" Sometimes a pcirticular kind of food is called 
wholesome, because it produces a beneficial effect of 



ENCYCLOPEDIA AMERICANA. 196 

a particular character on the system of an indi- 
vidual. In this case, however, it is to be considered 
as a medicine ; and can be called wholesome only 
for those whose systems are in the same condition. 

Aliments abounding in fat are unwholesome, 
because fat reisists the operation of the gastric juice. 

The addition of too much spice makes many an 
innocent aliment injurious, because spices resist the 
action of the digestive organs, and produce an irri- 
tation of particular parts of the system. 

The kind of aliment influences the health, and 
even the character of man. He is fitted to derive 
nourishment both from animal and vegetable ali- 
ment ; but can live exclusively on either. 

Experience proves that animal food most readily 
augments the solid parts of the blood, the fibrine, 
and therefore the strength of the muscular system ; 
but disposes the body, at the same time, to inflam- 
matory, . putrid, and scorbutic diseases ; and the 
character to violence and <;oarseness. On the con- 
trary, vegetable food renders the blood lighter and 
txK)re liquid, but forms weak fibres, disposes the 
system to the diseases which spring from feebleness, 
and tends to produce a. gen tie character. 

Something of the same difference of moral efiect 
results from the use of strong or light wines. But 
the reader must not infer that meat is indispensable 
for the support of the bodily strength. The peas- 
ants of some parts of Switzerland, who hardly ever 
taste any thing but bread, cheese and butter, are 
vigorous people. 

The nation^ of the north are inclinedj^ generally, 



199 VBOBTABLE DIET. 

more to animal aliment ; those of the sooth and the 
Orientals, more to vegetable. The latter are gener- 
ally more simple in their diet than the former, when 
their taste has not been corrupted by luxurious in- 
dulgence. Some tribes in the East, and the caste of 
Brahmins in India, live entirely on v^^etable food." 

MR' THOMAS BELL, OF LONDON. 

Mr. Thomas Bell, Fellow of the Roy^l Society, 
Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in Lon- 
don, Lecturer on the Anatomy and Diseases of the 
. Teeth, at Guy's Hospital, and Surgeon Dentist to 
that Institution, in his physiological observf^tions 
on the natural food of man, deduced from the ' 
character of the teeth, says, << The opinion which I 
venture to give, has not been hastily formed, nor 
without what appeared to me sufficient grounds. It 
is not, I think, going too far to say, that every 
fact connected with human organization goes to 
pjrove that man was originally formed a frugiverous 
(fruit-eating) animal, and therefore, probably, tropi- 
cal or nearly so, with regard to his geographical 
situation. This opinion is principally derived from 
the formation of his teeth and digestive organs, as 
wdl as from the character of bis skin and general 
structure of his limbs." 

LINNJEUS, THE NATURALIST. 

Linnaeus, in speaking of fruits and esculent veg- 
etttblesi says, — - « This species of food is that which 



L.INNiBUS.-rSErELLT. 197 

is most suitable. to man, as is evinced by the struc- 
ture of .the mouth, of the stomach, and of the 
hands." 

SHELLY, THE POET. 

The following are the views of that eccentric, 
though in many respects sensible writer, Shelly, as 
presented in a note to his work, called dueen Mab. 
I have somewhat a^bridged them, not solely to es- 
cape some of )iis monstrous religions sentiments, 
but for other reasons. I have endeavored, how- 
ever, to preserve, undisturbed, his opinions and 
reasonings, which I hope will make a deep and 
abiding impression : — 

"The depravity of the physical and moral na- 
ture of man, originated in his unnatural habits of 
life. The language spoken by the mythology of 
nearly all religions seems to prove that, at some 
distant period, man forsook the path of nnture, and' 
sacrificed the purity and happiness of his being to 
unnatural appetites. Milton makes Raphael thus 
exhibit ta Adam the consequence of his disobedi- 
ence : — 



Immediately, a place 



Before his eyes appeared ; and, noisome, dark, 
A lazar-house it seemed; wherein were la,id 
Numbers of all diseased ; all maladies 
Of ghastly ^asm, or racking torture, qualms 
Of heart-sick agony, all feverous kinds, 
Convulsions, epilepsies, lierce catarrhs, 
Intestine stone and ulcer, colic pangSj 

17* 



I 



198 VE6ETABLK DIET. 

• 

Demoniac iDrenzy, moping melancholy, 
And moon-strack madness, pining atrophy, 
Marasmus, and wide-wasting pestilence, 
Dropsies and asthmas, and joint-racking rhetuns. 

The fable of Prometheus, too, is explained in a 
manner somewhat similar. Before the time of 
Prometheus, according to Hesiod, mankind were 
exempt from suffering; they enjoyed a vigorous 
youth ; and death, when at length it came, ap- 
proached like sleep, and gently closed the eyes. 
Prometheus (who represents the human racie) effect- 
ed some gi'eat change in the condition of his nature, 
and applied fire to culinary purposes. From this 
moment his vitals were devoured by the vulture of 
disease. It consumed his being in every shape of 
its loathsome and infinite variety, inducing the soul- 
quelling sinkings of premature and violent death. 
All vice arose from the ruin of healthful innocence. 

Man, and the animals which he has infected with 
his society, Or depraved by his dominion, are alone 
diseased. The wild hog, the bison, and the wolf 
are perfectly exempt from malady, and invariably 
die, either from external violence or natural old age. 
But the domestic hog, the sheep, the cow, and the 
dog are subject to au incredible number, of "distem- 
pers, and, like the" corrupters of their nature, have 
physicians, who thrive upon their miseries. 

The super-eminence of man is like Satan's super- 
eminence of pain, — and the majority of his species, 
doomed to penury, disease, and crime, have reason 
to curse the untoward event, that, by enabling him 
to communicate his, .sensations, raised him above 



i 



SH^ELLY. 19& 

the I^el of his fellow animals. But the stieps that 
have been taken are irrevocable. 

The whole of human science is comprised in one 
question: — How can the advantages of intellect 
and civilization be reconciled with the liberty and^ 
pure pleasures of natural life ? How can we take 
the benefits and reject the evils of the system, which 
is now interwoven with our being ? I believe that 
abstinence from animal food and spirituous liquors 
would, in a great measure, capacitate us for the 
solution of this important question. 

It is true, that mental and bodily derangement is 
attributable in part to other deviations from recti- 
tude and nature, than those which concern diet. 
The 6iistakes cherished by society respecting the 
connexion of the isexes, whence the misery and 
diseases of celibacy, unenjoying prostitution, and 
the premature arrival of puberty necessarily spring ; 
the putrid atmosphere of crowded cities; the exha- 
lations of chemical processes ; the mufiiing of our 
bodies in superfliuous apparel j the absurd treatrnent 
of infants : — all these, and innumerable other caus- 
es, contribute their mite to the mass of human evil. 

Cbmparative anatomy teaches us that man re- 
sembles frugiverous finimals in every thing, and 
carnivorous in nothing; he has neither claws 
wherewith to seize his prey, nor distinct and point- 
ed t^eth to tear the living fibre. A mandarin of the 
first class, with nails two inches long, would proba- 
bly find them, alone, inefiiQient to hold even a hare. 
It is only by softening and disguising dead flesh by 
culinary preparations, that it is rendered susceptible 



200 VEGETABLE DIET. 

of mastication or digestion, and that tfie sight >>f its 
bloody juices does not excite intolerable loathing, 
horror and disgust. Let the advocate of animal 
food force himself to a decisive experiment on 
Its fitness, and, as Plutarch recommends, tear a 
living lamb with his teeth, and, plui^ging his head 
into its vitals, slake his thirst with the steaming 
blood ; when fresh from the deed of horror, let him. 
revert to the irresistible instincts of nature that 
would rise in judgment against it, and say. Nature 
formed me for such work as this. Then, and then 
only, would he be consistent. 

Young children evidently prefer pastry, oranges, 
apples, and other fruit to the flesh of animals, until, 
by the gradual depravation of the digestive organs, 
the free use of vegetables has, for a time, produced 
serious inconveniences. For a time, I say, since 
there never was an instance wherein a change 
from spirituous liquors and animal food to vegeta- 
bles and pure water has failed ultimately to invigo- 
rate the body by rendering its juices bland and 
consentaneous ; and to restore to the mind that 
cheerfulness and elasticity which not one in fifty 
possesses on the present system. A love of strong 
liquor is also with difiiculty taught to infants. 
Almost every one remembers the wry faces which 
the first glass of Port produced. Unsophisticated 
instinct is invariably unerring ; but to' decide on the 
fitness of animal food, from the perverted appetites, 
which its constrained adoption produces, is to make 
the criminal a judge in his own cause : it is even 
worse ; it is appealing to the infatuated drunkard in 
a question of the salubrity of brandy. 



SHELLY. 201 

Except in children, however, there remain no 
traces of that instinct which determines, in all other 
animals, what aliment is natural or otherwise ;' and 
so perfectly obliterated are they in ttie reasoning 
adults of our species, that it has become necessary to 
urge considerations drawn from comparative anato- 
tuy to prove that we are naturally frugiverous. 

Crime is madness. Madness is disease. When- 
ever the. cause of disease shall be discovered, the 
root, from which all vice and misery hav©' so long 
overshadowed the globe, will be bare to the axe. 
All the exertions of man, from that monient, noay be 
considered as tending to the clear profit of his spe- 
cies. No sane mind, in a sane body, resolves upon 
a crime. It is a man of violent passions, bloodnshot 
eyes, and swollen veins, that alone can grasp the 
knife of murder. The system of a simple diet is 
not a reform of legislation, while the furious pas- 
sions and evil propensities of the human heart, in 
which it had its origin, are unassuaged. It strikes 
at the root of all evil, and is an experiment which 
may be .tried with success, not alone by nations, but 
by small societies, families, .and even individuals. 
In no case has a return to a vegetable diet produced 
the slightest injury ; in" most it has been attended 
with changes undeniably beneficial. 

Should ever & physician be born with the genius 
of Locke, he might trace all bodily -and mental de- 
rangements to our upnatural habits, us clearly as 
that philosopher has traced all knowledge to sensa- 
tion; What prolific sources of disease are not those 
mineral and vegetable poispni^i that have been intro- 



202 VEGETABLE DIET. 

duced for its extirpation ? How many tliousands 
have become murderers aiid robbers, bigots and 
domestic tyrants, dissolute and abandoned adven- 
turers, from the use of fermented liquors! who, 
had they slaked their thirst only with pure water, 
would have lived but .to diflfuse the happiness of 
their own unperverted feelings. How many ground- 
less opinions and absurd institutions have not re- 
ceived a general sanction from the sottishness and 
intemperance of individuals. 

Who will assert that, had the populace of Paris 
satisfied their hunger at the ever-furnished table of 
vegetable nature, they would have lent tlieir brutal 
suflFrage to the proscription-list of Robespierre? 
Could a set of men, whose passions were not per- 
verted by unnatural stimuli, look with coolness on 
an auto da fe7 Is it to be believed that a being of 
gentle feelings, rising from* his meal, of roots, would 
take delight in sports of blood ? 

Was Nero a man of temperate life ? Could you 
read calm health in his cheek, flushed with un- 
governable propensities of hatred for the human 
race ? Did Muley Ismail's pulse beat evenly ? was 
his skin transparent ? did his eyes beam with hBalth- 
fulness, and its invariable concomitants, cheerful- 
ness and benignity ? 

Though history has decided none of these ques- 
tions, a child could not hesitate to answer in the 
negative. Surely the bile-suffused cheek of Bona- 
parte, his wrinkled brow, and yellow eye, the cease- 
less inquietude of his nervous system, speak no less 
plainly the <;haracter oi his unresting ambition 



SHELLY; 203 

than his murders and his victorjes.. It is impossi- 
ble, had Bonaparte descended from a race of vege- 
table feeders, that he could have had either the in- 
clination or the power to ascend tlie throne of the 
Bourbons. 

The desire of tyranny could scarcely be excited 
in the individual ; the power to tyrannize would 
certainly not be delegated by a society neither 
frenzied by inebriation nor rendered impotent and 
irrational . by disease. Pregnant, indeed, with inex- 
haustible calamity is the renunciation of instinct, as 
it concerns our physical nature. Arithmetic cannot 
enumerate, nor reason perhaps suspect the multitu- 
dinous sources of disease in civilized Hfe. Even 
common water, that apparently innoxious pabulum^ 
when corrupted by the filth of pbpulous cities, is a 
doadly and insidious destroyer. 

There* is no disease, bodily or mental, which 
adoption of vegetable diet and pure water hais not 
infallibly mitigated, wherever the experimcjnt has 
been fairly tried. Debility is gradually converted 
into strength, disease into healthfutness ; madness, 
in all its hideous variety, from the ravings of the 
fettered maniac, to the unaccountable irrationalities 
of ill-temper, that make a hell pf domestic life, 
into a calm and considerate evenness of temper, 
that alone might c^er a certain pledge of the fiiture 
.moral reformation of society. 

On a natural system of diet, old age would be our 
last and our only malady ; the term of our existence 
woul^d be protracted; we should enjoy life, and no 
longer preclude others irom the enjoyment of it ; all 



204 VEGETABLE DIET. 

sensational delights would be' infinitely more exqui- 
site and perfect ; the very sense of being would then 
be a continued pleasure, such as we now feel it in 
some few and favored moments of our youth. 

By all that is sacred in our hopes for the human 
race, I conjure those who love happiness and truth, 
to give a fair trial to the vegetable system. • Reason- 
ing is surely superfluous on a subject whose merits 
an experience of six months would set forever at 
rest. 

But it is only among the enlightened and benevo- 
lent that so great a sacrifice of appetite and preju- 
dice can be expected, even though its ultimate 
excellence should not admit of dispute. It is found 
easier by the short-sighted victims of disease, to 
palliate their torments, by medicine, than to prevent 
them by regimen. The vulgar of all ranks are in- 
variably sensual and ipdocile ; yet I cannot but feel 

• 

myself persuaded, that when the benefits of vegeta- 
ble diet are mathematically proved, when it is as 
clear, that those who live naturally are exempt 
from premature death, as that nine is not one, the 
most sottish of mankind will feel a preference to- 
wards a long and tranquil, contrasted with a short 
and painful life. 

On the average, out of sixty persons, four die in 
three years. Hopes are entertained, that iii April, 
1814,* a statement will be given that eiixty persons, 
all having lived more than three years on vegeta- 

* A date but little later than that of the work whence this 
article is extracted. 



SHELLY, 90S 

bles and pure water, are then in perfe^ heaUh. 
Moi^e than two years have now eli^psed ; not ans of 
them has died; no such example will be found 
in any sixty persons taken at random. 

When these proofs come fairly before the world, 
and are clearly seen by all who understand arith- 
metic, it is scarcely possible that abstinence from 
aliments demonstrably pernicious should not become 
universal. 

In proportion to the number of proselytes, so 
will be the weight of evidence ; and when a thou- 
sand persons can be produced, living on vegetables 
and distilled water, who have to dread no disease 
but old age, the world will be compelled to regard 
animal flesh and fermented liquors as slow but 
certain poisons^ _ 

The change which would be produced by sim- 
pler habits on political economy, is sufficiently re- 
markablcr The monopolising eater of animal flesh 
would no longer destroy his constitution by de- 
vouring an acre at a, meal, and many loaves of 
bread would cease to contribute to gout, madness, 
and apoplexy, in the shape of a pint of porter, or 
a dram of gin, when appeasing the long-protracted 
famine of the hard-working peasant's hungry babes. 

The quantity pf nutritious vegetable matter, con- 
sumed in fattening the carcass of an ox, would 
aflbrd ten times the sustenance, undepraving in- 
deed, and incapable of generating disease, if gather- 
ed immediately from the bosom of the «arth. The 
nK>st fertile districts of the habitable globe are now 
actually cultivated by men tor animals, at a delay 

18 



206 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and waste of aliment absolutely incapable of cal- 
culation. It is only the wealthy that can, to any 
great de^ee, even now, indulge the unnatural 
craving for dead flesh, and they pay for the greater 
license of the privilege, by subjection to supernu- 
merary diseases. 

Again, — the spirit of the nation that should take 
the lead in this great reform would insensibly be- 
come agricultural ; commerce, with its vices, self- 
ishness, and corruption, would gradually decline ; 
more natural habits would produce gentler manners, 
and the excessive complication of poUtical relations 
would be so far simplified that every individual 
might feel and understand why he loved his coun- 
try, and took a personal interest in its welfare. 

On a natural system of diet, we should require no 
spices from India; no wines from Portugal,- Spain, 
France, or Madeira; none of those multitudinous 
articles of luxury, for which every corner .of the 
globe is rifled, and which are the cause of so much 
individual rivalship, and such calamitous and san- 
guinary national disputes. 

Let it ever be remembered, that it is the direct in- 
fluence of excess of commerce to make the interval 
between the rich and the poor wider and more 
unconquerable. Let it be remembered, that it is a 
foe to every thing of real worth and excellence in 
the human character. The odious and disgusting 
aristocracy of wealth, is built upon the ruins of aU 
that is good hi chivalry or republicanism; and 
luxury is the forerunner of a barbarism scarce capa- 
ble of cure. Is it impossible to realise a state of 



SHELLY. 207 

society, where all the energies of man shall be di- 
rected to the production of his solid happiness? 

None must be entrusted with power, (and money 
is the completest species of power,) who do not stand 
pledged to use it exclusively for the general benefit. 
But the use of animal flesh and fermented liquors, 
directly militates with this equality of the rights of 
man. The peasant cannot gratify these fashionable 
cravings without leaving his family to starve. 
Without disease and war, those sweeping curtailers 
of population, pasturage would include a waste too 
great to be afibrded. The labor requisite to support 
a family is far lighter than is usually supposed. 
The peasantry work, not only for themselves, but 
for the aristocracy, the army, and the manufacturers. 

The advantage of a reform in diet is obvioUsly 
greater than that of any other. It strikes at the root 
of the evil. To remedy the abuses of legislation, 
before we annihilate the jMropensities by which they 
are produced, is to suppose that by taking away the 
eflfect, the cause will cease to operate. 

But the efficacy of this system depends entirely 
on the proselytism of individuals, and grounds its 
merits, as a benefit to the community, upon the total 
change of the dietetic habits in its members. It pro- 
ceeds securely from a number of particular cases to 
one that is universal, and has this advantage over 
the contrary mode, that one error does not invali- 
date all that has gone before. 

Let not too much, however, be expected from this 
system. The healthiest among us is not exempt 
from hereditary disease. The most symmetrical^ 



208 VEGETABLE DIET. 

athletic, and long-lived is a being inexpressibly in- 
ferior to what he would have been had not the un- 
natural habits of his ancestors accumulated for him 
a certain portion of malady and deformity. In the 
most perfect specimen of civilized man, something is 
still found wanting by the physiological critic. Can 
a return to nature, then, instantaneously eradicate 
predispositions that have been slowly taking root in 
the silence of innumerable ages ? — Indubitably not 
All that I contend for is, that from the moment of 
rehnquishing all unnatural habits, no new dis- 
ease is generated; and that the predisposition to 
hereditary maladies gradually perishes for want of 
its accustomed supply. In cases of consumption, 
cancer, gout, asthma, and scrofula, such is the in- 
variable tendency of a diet of vegetables and pure 
water. 

Those who may be induced by these remarks to 
give the vegetable system a fair trial, should, in the 
first place, date the commencement of their practice 
from the moment of their conviction. All depends 
upon breaking through a pernicious habit resolutely, 
and at once. Dr. Trotter asserts, that no drunkard 
was ever reformed by gradually relinquishing his 
dram. Animal flesh, in its effects on the human 
stomach, is analogous to a dram ; it is similar to 
the kind, though differing in the degree of its opera- 
tion. The proselyte to a pure diet, must be warn- 
ed to expect a temporary diminution of muscular 
strength. The subtraction of a powerful stimulus 
will suffice to account for this event. But it is 
only temporary, and is succeeded by an equable 



SHELLY. 209 

capability for exertion, far surpassing his former 
various and fluctuating strength. 

Above all, he will acquire an easiness of breath- 
ing, by which such exertion is performed, with a 
remarkable exemption from that painful and difficult 
panting now felt by almost every one, after hastily 
<;ilimbing an ordinary mountain. He will be equally 
capable of bodily exertion or mental application, 
after, as before his simple meal. He will feel none 
of the narcotic efiects of ordinary diet. Irritability, 
the direct consequence of exhausting stimuli, would 
yield to the power of natural and tranquil impulses. 
He will no longer pine under the lethargy of ennuij 
that unconquerable weariness of life, more to be 
dreaded than death itself. 

He will no longer be incessantly occupied in blunt- 
ing and destroying those organs from which he ex- 
pects his gratification. The pleasures of taste to be 
derived from a dinner of potatoes, beans, peas, tur- 
nips, lettuce, with a dessert of apples, gooseberries, 
strawberries, currants, raspberries, and, in winter, 
oranges, apples, and pears, . is far greater than is 
supposed. Those who wait until they can eat this 
plain fare with the sauce of appetite, will scarcely 
join with the hypocritical sensualist^ at a lord 
mayor's feast, who declaims against the pleasures of 

the table." 

18^ 



CHAPTER VII. 



SOCIETIES AND COMMUNITIES ON THE VEGE- 
TABLE SYSTEM. 



The Pythagoreans. The Essenes. The Bramins. Society of 
Bible Christians. Orphan Asylum of Albany. School in Ger- 
many. American Physiological Society. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

The following chapter did not come within the 
scope of my plan, as it was originally formed. But 
in prosecuting the labors of preparing a volume on 
vegetable diet, it has more and more seemed to me 
desirable to add a short account of some of the 
communities and associations of men, both of ancient 
and modern times, who, amid a surrounding horde 
of flesh -eaters, have withstood the power of tempta- 
tion, and proved, in some measure, true to their own 
nature and the first impulses of mercy and human- 
ity and charity. I shall not, of course, attempt to 
describe all the sects and societies of the kind to 
which I refer, but only a few of those which seem 
to me most important. 



PYTHAGOREANS. 211 

One word may be necessary in explanation of the 
term con^munities. I mean by it smaller commu- 
nities or associations. There have been and still arc 
many whole nations which might be called vegeta- 
ble-eating communities ; but of such it is not my 
purpose to speak at present. 

THE PYTHAGOREANS. 

Pythagoras appears to have flourished about 550 
years before Christ, He was, probably, a native of 
the island of Samos ; but a part of his education, 
which was extensive, and thorough, was received 
in Egypt. He taught a new philosophy ; and, ac- 
cording to some, endeavored to enforce it by laying 
claim to supernatural powers. But, be this as it 
may have been, he was certainly a man of extraor- 
dinary qualities and powers, as well as of great and 
commanding influence. In an age of great luxury 
and licentiousness, he taught, both by example and 
precept, the most rigid doctrines of sobriety, temper- 
ance, and purity. He abstained from all animal 
food, and limited himself entirely to vegetables, of 
which he usually preferred bread and honey. Nor 
did he allow the free use of every kind of vegetable ; 
for beans, and I believe every species of pulse, were 
omitted. Water was his only drink. He lived, it 
is said, to the age of eighty ; and even then did not 
perish from disease or old age, but from starvation 
in a place where he had sought a retreat from the 
fury of his enemies. 

His disciples are said to have been exceedingly 



212 VEGETABLE DIET. 

numerous, in almost all quarters of the then known 
world, especially in Greece and Italy. It is impos- 
sible, however, to form any conjecture of their 
numbers. The largest school or association of his 
rigid followers is supposed to have been at the city 
of Crotona, in South Italy. Their number was six 
hundred. They followed all his dietetic and philo- 
sophical rules with the utmost strictness. The 
association appears to have been, for a time, exceed- 
ingly flourishing. It was a society of philosophers, 
rather than of common citizens. They held their 
property in one common stock, for the benefit of the 
whole. The object of the association was chiefly 
to aid each other in promoting intellectual cultiva- 
tion. Pythagoras did not teach abstinence from all 
hurtful food and drink and an exclusive use of that 
which was the best, for the sole purpose of making 
men better, or more healthy, or longer-lived ani- 
mals ; he had a higher and nobler purpose. It 
was to make them better rationals, more truly noble 
and godlike — worthy the name of rational men, 
and of the relation in which they stood to their 
common Father. And yet, after all, his doctrines 
appear to have been mingled with much bigotry 
and superstition. 

THE. ESSENES. 

The following account of this singular sect of the 
ancient Jews is abridged from an article in the An- 
nals of Education, for July, 1836. The number of 
this vegetable-eating sect is not known, though, ac- 



EaSENES. — 9 RAM IMS. 213 

cording to Philo, there were four thousand of them 
in the single province of Judea. 

" Pliny says that the Essenes of Judea fed on the 
fruit of the palm-tree. But, however this may have 
been, it is agreed, on all hands, that, like the ancient 
Pythagoreans, they lived exclusively on vegetable 
food, and that they were abstinent in regard to the 
quantity even of this. They would not kill a living 
creature, even for sacrifices. It is also understood 
that they treated diseases of every kind — though it 
does not appear that they were subject to many — 
with roots and herbs. Josephus says they were 
long-lived, and that many of them lived over a 
hundred years. This he attributes to their * regular 
course of life,' and especially to Uhe simplicity of 
their diet.' " 

THE BRAMINS. 

r » 

The Bramins, or Brahmins, are, as is probably 
well known, the first of the four castes among the 
Hindoos. They are the priests of the people, and are 
remarkable, in their way, for their sanctity. Of their 
number I am not at present apprized, but it must be 
very great. But, however great it may be, they are 
vegetable eaters of the strictest sect. They are not 
even allowed to eat eggs; and I believe milk and 
its products are also forbidden theni; but of this I 
am not quite certain. Besides adhering to the 
strictest rules of temperance, they are also required 
to observe frequent fasts of the most severe kind, 
and to practise regular and daily, atid sometimes 
thrice daily ablutions. They subsist much on 



214 VEGETABLE DIET. 

green herbs, roots, and fruits ; and at some periods 
of their ministry, they live much in the open air. 
And yet those of them who are true Bramins— who 
hve up to the dignity of their profession — are 
among the most healthy, vigorous and long-lived of 
their race. The accounts of their longevity may, in 
some instances, be exaggerated ; but it is certain 
that, other things being equal, they do not in this 
respect fall behind any other cast of their country- 
men. 

SOCIETY OP BIBLE CHRISTIANS. 

The « Society of Bible Christians" to which I 
allude, was in existence in England in the year 
1829, and numbered upwards of a hundred mem- 
bers, who abstained entirely from animal food, and 
had done so for from ten to twenty years. A book 
was written, at that period, by one of their members, 
entitled " Vegetable Cookery," with an introduction, 
somewhat extended, recommending abstinence from 
animal food and intoxicating liquors. Of the sub- 
sequent history of this society — that is, for the last > 
eight or nine years, I have been hitherto unable to 
obtain any accurate information. 

At the close of the introduction to the work I 
have just mentioned, the Society of Bible Christians 
sum up their views in the following manner : — 

" The Society of Bible Christians abstain from 
animal food, not only in obedience to the Divine 
command, but because it is an observance which, if 



ORPHAN. AS'Y.I/UM. 215 

more generally adopted, would prevent much cru- 
* elty, luxury and disease^ besides many other evils 
which cause misery in society. It would be pro- 
ductive of much good, by promoting health, long 
life, and happiness, and thus be a most effectual 
means of reforming mankind. It would entirely 
abolish that greatest of curses, war ; for those who 
are so . conscientious as not to kill animals, will 
never murder human beings. On all these ac- 
counts the system cannot be too much recommend- 
ed. The practice of abstaining cannot be wrong ; 
it must therefore be some consolation to be on the 
side of duty. If we err, we err on the sure side : it 
is innocent; it is infinitely better authorised and 
more nearly associated with religion, virtue, and 
humanity than the contrary practice — and we have 
the sanction of the wisest and the best of men — of 
the whole Christian world, for several hundred 
years after the commencement of the Christian era." 



ORPHAN ASYLUM OP ALBANY. 

I clisiss this as a community, because it is properly 
so, and because I cannot conveniently class it oth- 
erwise.- Tl^e facts which are to be related are too 
valuable to be lost. They were first published, I 
believe, in the Northampton Courier ; and subse^ 
quently in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 
and in the Moral Reformer. In the present case, the 
account is greatly abridged. 

The Orphan Asylum of Albany was established 



816 VEGETABLE DIET. 

about the close of the year 1829, or the beginniog 
of the year 1830. Shortly after its estaUishmentU' 
contained seventy children, and subsequently many 
more. The average number, from its commence*- 
ment to the date of the present account, August 
1836, was eighty. 

For the first three years, the diet of the inmates 
consisted of fine bread, rice, Indian puddings, pota- 
toes, and other vegetables and fruits, with milk ; to 
which was added flesh or flesh-soup once a day. 
Considerable attention was also paid to bathing and 
cleanliness, and to clothing, air and exercise. Bath- 
ing, however, was performed in a perfect manner, 
only once in three weeks. As many of them were 
received in poor health, not a few continued sickly. 

In the fall of 1833^ the diet and regimen of the 
inmates were materially changed. Daily ablution 
of the whole body, in the use of the cold shower or 
sponge bath — or, in cases of special disease, the tepid 
bath, was one of the fiYst steps taken ; then the fine 
bread was laid aside for that made of unbolted 
wheat meal ; and soon after flesh and flesh-soups 
were wholly banished ; and thus they continued to 
advance, till, in about three months more, they had 
come fully upon the vegetable system, and had 
adopted reformed habits in regard to sleeping, air, 
clothing, exercise, <fcc. On this course, then, they 
continued to August, 1836, and, for aught I know, to 
the present time. The results were as follows : — 

During the first three years, or while the old sys- 
tem was followed, from four to six children were 
continually on the sick Ust, and sometimes more ; 



ORPHAN ABYLUM. 217 

and one or two assistant nurses were necessary. A 
physician was needed once, twice, or three times a 
week, uniformly ; and deaths were frequent. Dur^ 
ing this whole period there were between thirty and 
forty deaths. 

After the new s^tem was fairly adopted, the 
nursery was soon entirely vacated, and the services 
of the nurse and ph3nsician no longer needed ; and 
for more than two years no case of sickness or 
death took place. In the succeeding twelve months 
there were three deaths, but they were , new in- 
mates, and were diseased when they were received ; 
and two of them were idiots. The Report of the 
Managers says, — "Under this system of dietetics 
(though the charge ought not to be wholly attrib- 
uted to the diet) the health of the children has not 
only been preserved, but those, who came to the 
asylum weakly have become healthy and strong, 
and greatly increased in activity, cheerfulness and 
happiness." The superintendents also state, that 
"since the new regimen has been fully adopted, 
there has been a remarkable increase of health, 
strength, activity, vivacity, cheerfulness and con- 
tentment among the children. Indeed, they appear 
to be, uniformly, perfectly healthy and happy ; and 
the strength and activity they exhibit are truly sur- 
prising. The change of temper is very great. They 
have become less turbulent, irritable, peevish and 
discontented ; and far more manageable, gentle, 
peaceable, and kind to each other." .One of them 
further observes, — " There has been a great in- 
crease in their mental activity and power ; the 

19 



218 VEGETABLE DIET. 

quickness and acumen of their perception, the vigor 
of their apprehension, and the power of their re- 
tention daily astonish me." 

Such an account hardly needs comment ; and I 
leave it to make its own impressions on the candid 
and unbiassed tnind and heart of the reader. 

9 

SCHOOL IN GERMANY. 

There is, in the Annals of Education for August, 
1836, an account of a school in which the same 
simple system which was pursued in the Orphan 
Asylum at Albany was adopted, and with the same 
happy results. I say, the same system : I believe 
plain meat was allowed occasionally, but it was 
seldom. Their food was exceedingly simple, con- 
sisting chiefly of bread and other vegetables, fruits 
and milk. Great attention was also paid to daily 
cold bathing. The following is the teacher's state- 
ment in regard to the results : — 

"I am at present the foster father of nearly 
seventy young people, who were born in all the 
varieties of climate from Lisbon to Moscow, and 
whose e^fly education was necessarily very differ- 
ent. These young men are all healthy; not a 
single eruption is visible on their faces ; and three 
years often pass, during which not a single one of 
them is confined to his bed ; and in the twenty-one 
years that I have been engaged in this institution, 
not one pupil has died. Yet, I am no physician. 
During the first ten years of my residence here, no 



PHYSIOLOGICAL SOCIETT. 219 

physician entered my house ; and, not till the num* 
ber of my pupils was very much increased, and I 
grew anxious not to overlook anything in regard 
to them, did I begin to seek at all for medical ad<^ 
vice. 

It is the mode of treating the young men here, 
which is the cause of theif.su perior health ; and this 
is the reason why death has not yet entered our 
doors. Should we ever deviate from our present 
principles — should we approach nearer the mode 
of living common in wealthy families — we should 
soon be obliged to establish, in our institution, as it 
is in others, medicine-closets and nurseries. In- 
stead of the freshness which now adorns the cheeks 
of our youth, paleness would appear, and our 
church-yards would contain the tombs of promising 
young men, who, in the bloom of their years, had 
fallen victims to disease." 

THE AMERICAN PHYSIOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 

This association has been formed, nearly fifteen 
months. When first formed it consisted of one 
hundred and twenty-four males, and forty-one 
females; in all, one hundred and sixty-five. This 
number has now increased to more than two hun- 
dred. 

Most of these individuals were more or less feeble, 
and a very large proportion of them were actually 
suflfering from chronic disease when they became 
members of the society. Not a few joined it, indeed, 
as a last resort, after having tried every thing else, 
as drowning men are said to catch at straws. 



220 VEGETABLK DIET.. 

Nearly if not quite all the members of this 
society, as well as most of their families, abstain 
from animal food, and have done so ever since they 
j6ined the society. Some of them even adopted the 
vegetable system more than two years ago. And 
there are a few who adopted it much sooner — one 
or two of them eight years. ago. 

Of the individuals belonging to the Physiological 
Society or to their families, and adhering to the 
same principles, two adults only have died, and 
one child. I will not be quite positive, but there 
may have been four in all, two adults, and two 
children ; but this is the extent of mortality among 
them for about Meen months. 

The whole number of those who belong to the 
society, with those members of their families who 
adhere to their principles, (estimating families, as is 
usually done, at five members to each,) is believed to 
be from three hundred and twenty to three hun- 
dred and fifty. The average mortality for the same 
number of healthy persons, during the same period, 
in Boston and the adjacent places, has been about 
six or seven; though in some places it has been 
much greater. In a single parish in Roxbury — and 
without any remarkable sickness — the mortality, for 
the same number of persons, has been equal to ten 
or twelve. 

Now, we must not forget, what I have already 
stated, that this society of vegetable-eaters — the 
two hundred adults, I mean — were generally in- 
valids, and some of them given over by physi- 
cians. Instead, therefore, of only half the usual 



PHYSIOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 221 

proportion of deaths among them, we might natural* 
ly enough have expected twice or three times the 
usual number. And this expectation would have 
appeared still better founded when it was consider- 
ed that many made the change in their habits, and 
especially in their diet, very suddenly. 

But the whole story is not yet told. Not only has 
the number of deaths been very small, as above 
stated, but there have been a great number of re- 
markable recoveries. Some, who had very obstinate 
complaints, appear to be already entirely well. 
Others are evidently getting well, as fast as could be 
expected. Some, who were broken down and pre- 
maturely old, seem to have renewed their youth. 
Many are becoming free from colds and eruptive 
complaints, to which they were formerly subject. 
And those who have had acute diseases, of whom, 
however, the number has been very small, have 
not suffered so much as is usually the case with 
flesh-eaters in circumstances otherwise apparently 
similar. 

19* 



CHAPTER VIII. 



VEGETABLE DIET DEFENDED. 



General Remarks on the Nature of the Argument. 1. The An- 
atomical Argument. 2. The Physiological Argument. 3. The 
Medicdl Argument. 4. The Political Argument. 5. The 
Economical Argument. 6. The Argument from Experience. 
7. The Moral Argument. — Conclusion. 

In the progress of a work like this, it may not be 
amiss to present, in a very brief manner, the general 
arguments in defence of a diet exclusively vegetable. 
Some of them have, indeed, already been adverted to 
in the testimony of the preceding chapters ; but not 
all. Besides, it seemed to me desirable to collect the 
whole in a general view. 

There are various wttys of doing this, according 
to the different aspects in which the subject is view- 
ed. Every one has his own point of observation. I 
have mine. Conformably to the view I have taken, 
therefore, I shall endeavor to arrange my remarks un- 
der the seven following heads, viz. the anatomical, 

the PHYSIOLOGICAL, the MEDICAL, the POLITICAL, 

the ECONOMICAL, the experimental and the 

MORAL ARGUMENTS. 

Dr. Cheyne relied principally on what I have 
called the medical argument — though what I mean 



GENERAL REMARKS. 223 

by this may not be quite obvious, till I shall have 
presented it initg proper place. Not that he wholly 
overlooked, any thing else; but this, as it seems to 
me, was with him the grand point. Nearly the 
same might be said of Dr. Lambe, and of several 
others. 

Dr. Mussey seems to place the anatomical and 
physiological arguments in the fore-ground. It is true 
he makes much use of the medical and the moral 
argument ; but the former appear to be his favorites. 
Dr. Whitlaw, and some others, incline to make the 
moral and political arguments more prominent. Mr. 
Graham, who has probably done more to reduce 
the subject of vegetable dietetics to a system than 
fi^ny other individual, — though he makes much use 
of all the rest, especially the moral and medical, — 
appears to dwell with most interest on the physi- 
ological argument. This seems to be, with him, the 
strong-hold — the grand citadel. And it must be 
confessed that the point of defence is very strong 
indeed, as we shall see in the sequel. 

If I have a favorite, with the rest, it is the moral 
argument, or perhaps a combination of this with 
the economical. But then I dwell on the latter 
with so much interest, chiefly on account of the 
former. I would give very little to be able to bring 
the world of mankind back to nature's true sim- 
plicity, if it were only to make them better and 
more perfect animals; though I know not but an 
attempt of thi^ sort would be as truly laudable as the 
attempt so often made to improve the breed of our 
domestic animals. I siippose man, considered as i 



224 VEGETABLK DIET. 

mere animal, is superior, in point of importance to 
all the others. But, after all, I would reform his di- 
etetic habits principally to make him better, morally ; 
to make him better, in the discharge of his varied 
duties to his fellow-beings and to God. I would 
elevate him, that he may become as truly God-like, 
or Godly as he now too often is, by his unnatural 
habits, earthly or beastly. I would render him a 
rational being, fitted to fill the space which he ap« 
pears to have been originally designed to fill — the 
gap in the great chain of being between the higher 
quadrupeds and the beings we are accustomed to 
regard as angelic. I would restore him to his true 
dignity. I would make him a child of God, and an 
heir of a glorious immortality. 

But I now proceed to the discussion of the sub- 
ject which I have assigned to this chapter. 

I. THE ANATOMICAL ARGUMENT. 

There has been a time when the teeth and in- 
testines of man were supposed to indicate the neces- 
sity of a mixed diet — a diet partly animal and partly 
vegetable. Four out of thirty-two teeth were.found 
to resemble, slightly, the teeth of carnivorous ani- 
mals. In like manner, the length of the intestinal 
tube was thought to be midway between that of the 
flesh-eating, and that of the herb-eating quadrupeds. 
But, unfortunately for this mode of defending an 
animal diet, it has been found out that the fruit and. 
vegetable-eating monkey race, and the herbe-ating 
camel, have th^ said four-pointed teeth much more 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 226 

pointed than those of man ; and that the intestines, 
compared with the real length of the body, instead 
of assigning to man a middle position, would place 
him among the herbivorous animals. In short, -— 
for I certainly need not dwell on this part of my 
subject, after having adduced so fully the views of 
Prof Lawrence and Baron Cuvier- — there is no 
intelligent naturalist or comparative anatomist, at 
present, who attempts to resort for one moment to 
man's structure, in support of the hypothesis that he 
is a flesh-eater. None, so far as I know, will affirm, 
or at least with any show of reason maintain, that 
anatomy, so far as that goes, is in favor of flesh- 
eating. We come, then, to another and more im- 
portant division of our subject. 

II. THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 

One of the advantages of vegetable-eaters over 
others, is in the superior appetite which they enjoy. 
There are many flesh-eaters who have what they 
call a good appetite. But I never knew a person of 
this description, who made the change from a mixed 
diet to one purely vegetable, who did not afterward 
acknowledge that he never once knew, while he 
was an eater of animal food, a truly perfect appetite. 
This testimony in favor of vegetable diet is positive ; 
whereas that of the multitude, who have never made 
the change I speak of, but who are therefore the 
more ready to laugh at the conclusions, is merely 
negative, the whole of it. 

A person of perfect appetite can eat at all times, 



226 VEGETABLE DIET* 

and under all circumstances. He can eat of one 
thing or another, and in greater or less quantity. 
Were there no objections to it, he could make an 
entire meal of the coarsest and most indigestible 
substances ; or, he could eat ten or fifteen times a 
day ; or, he could eat a quantity at once which would 
astonish even a Siberian; or, on the contrary, he 
could abstain from food entirely, for a short time ; 
and any of these without serious inconvenience. 
He would, indeed, feel a slight want of something, 
(in the case of total abstinence,) when the usual 
hour arrived for taking a meal ; but the sensation is 
not an abiding one ; when the hour has passed by, 
it entirely disappears. Nor is there ever, at least for 
a day or two of abstinence, that gnawing at the 
stomach, as some express it, which is so often felt by 
the flesh-eater and the devourer of other mixed and 
injurious dishes, and which is so generally mis- 
taken for true and genuine hunger. 

I have said that the vegetable-eater finds no seri- 
ous inconvenience from the quality or quantity of 
his food ; but I mean to speak here of the immedi- 
ate effects solely. No doubt every error of this sort 
produces mischief, sooner or later. The more per- 
fect the appetite is, the greater should be our nfioral 
power of commanding it, and of controlling the 
quality and quantity of our food and drink, as well 
as the times and seasons of receiving it. 

These statements, I am aware, are contrary to the 
received and current opinion ; but that they are 
true, can be proved, not by one person merely, — . 
though if that person were to he entirely relied on^ 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 227 

his positive affirmation would outweigh a thousand 
negative testimonies, — but by many hundreds. It is 
more generally supposed that he who confines him- 
self to a simple diet, soon brings his stomach into 
such a state that the slightest departure from his 
usual habits for once only, produces serious incour 
veniences ; and this indeed is urged as an argiiment 
against simplicity itself. Yet, how strange ! How 
much more natural to suppose that the more perfect 
the health of the stomach, the better it will bear, 
for a time, with slight or even serious departures 
from truth and nature! How much more natural 
to suppose that perfect health is the very best 
defence against all the causes which tend to invite 
or to provoke disease ! And what it would be nat- 
ural to infer, is proved by experience to be . strictly 
true. The thorough-going vegetable-eater can make 
a meal for once, or perhaps feed for a day or so, on 
substances which would almost kill many others ; 
and can do so with comparative impunity. He 
can make a whole meal of cheese, cabbage, fried 
pudding, fried dough-n1its, <fec. <fec. ; and if it be 
not in remarkable excess, he will feel no immediate 
inconvenience, unless from the mental conviction 
that he must pay the full penalty at some distant 
day. 

I repeat it, the appetite of the vegetable-eater, if 
true to his principles, and temperate- in regard to 
quantity, is always, at all moments of his life, per- 
fect. To be sure, he is not always hungry. Hun- 
ger, indeed, as I have already intimated — what 
most people call hunger, a morbid sensation, or 



228 VEGETA^BLE DIET. ' 

gnawing — is unknown to him. But there is 
scarce a moment of bis life, at least, when he is 
awake, in which he could not enjoy the pleasures of 
eating, even the coarsest viands, with a high relish ; 
provided, however, he knew it was proper for him 
to eat. Nor is his appetite fickle, demanding this 
or that particular article, and disconcerted if it can- 
not be obtained. It is satisfied with any thing to 
which the judgment directs ; and though gratified, 
in a high degree, with dainties, when nothing better 
and more wholesome cannot he obtained, never 
demanding them in a peremptory manner. 

The vegetable-eater has a more quiet, happy and 
perfect digestion than the fiesh-eater. On this point 
there has been much mistake, even among ph3rs- 
iologists. Richerand and many others suppose that 
a degree of constitutional disturbance is indispen- 
sable during the process of digestion; and some 
have even said that the system was subjected at 
every meal — nay, at every healthy meal — to a 
species of miniature fever. The remarks of Rich- 
erand are as follows. I have slightly abridged them, 
but have not altered the sense : — 

"While the alimentary solution is going on, a 
slight shivering is felt; the pulse becomes quicker 
and nK)re contracted ; the vital power seems to for- 
sake the other organs, to concentrate itself on that 
which is the seat of the digestive process. As the 
stomach empties itself, the shivering is followed by a 
gentle warmth ; the pulse increases in fulness and 
frequency; and the insensible perspiration is aug^ 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 229 

mented. Digestion brings on, therefore, a general 
action, analogous to a febrile paroxysm." 

And what is it, indeed, but a febrile paroxysm ? 
Nay, Richerand himself confirms this by adding,-^ 
"this fever of digestion, noticed already by the 
ancients, is particularly observable in women of 
great sensibility." That is, the fever is more violent 
in proportion to the power of the person it attacks 
to resist its influence ; just as it is with fever in all 
other circumstances, or when induced by any other 
causes. 

But, can any one believe the Author of Nature 
has so made us, that in a steady and rational obedi- 
ence to his laws, it is indispensable that we should 
be thrown into a fever three times a day, one thou- 
sand and ninety-five times in a year, and seventy-six 
thousand six hundred and fifty in seventy years? 
No wonder, if this were true, that the vitality of 
our organs was ordained to wear out soon ; for we 
see by what means the result would be accom- 
plished. 

The fever, however, of which Richerand speaks, 
does very generally exist, because mankind very 
generally depart from nature and her laws. But it 
is not necessary. The simple vegetable-eater — if 
he lives right in all other respects — if he errs not 
as to quantity, knows nothing of it ; nor should it 
be known by any body ; we should leave it to the 
animals below man to err, in quantity and quality, 
to an excess which constitutes a surfeit or a fever, 
and causes fulness and drowsiness and a recumbent 
20 



230 VEGETABLE DIET. 

posture. The self-styled lord of the animated world 
should rise superior to habits which have marked, 
in every age, certain orders of the lower animals. 

But the chyle which is produced from vegetable 
aliment is better — all other things being equal — 
than that which is produced from any other food. 
For proof of this we need but the testimony of Oliver, 
and other physiologists. They tell us, unhesitating- 
ly, that, under the same circumstances, chyle which 
is formed from vegetables will be preserved from 
putrefaction many days longer — the consequence 
of greater purity and a more perfect vitality — than 
that which is formed from any admixture of animal 
. food. Is it not, then, better for the purposes of health 
and longevity? Can it, indeed, be otherwise? I 
will say nothing at present, for want of space to 
devote to it, of the indications which are afforded 
by the other sensible properties of the chyle which 
is produced from vegetables. The single fact I 
have presented is enough on that point. 

The best solids and fluids are produced by vege- 
table eating. On this single topic a volume might 
be written, without exhausting it, while I must 
confine myself to a page or two. 

In the first place, it forms better bones and more 
solid muscles, and consequently gives to the frame 
greater solidity and strength. Compare, in evi- 
dence of the truth of this statement, the vegetable- 
eating millions of middle and southern Europe, with 
the other millions who, supposed to be more fortu- 
nate, can get a little flesh or fish once a day. 
Especially, make this comparison in Ireland, where 



PHTSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 231 

the vegetable food selected is far from' being of the 
first or best order ; and whose sight is so obtuse as 
not to perceive the difference ? I do not say, com- 
pare the enervated inhabitant of a^hot climate, as 
Spain or Italy, with the inhabitant of England, or 
Scotland, or Russia, for that would be an unfair 
comparison, wholly so; but compare Italian with 
Italian, Frenchman with Frenchman, German with 
German, Scotchman with Scotchman, and Hiber- 
nian with Hibernian. 

In like manner, compare the many millions of 
Japanese of the interior, who subsist through life 
chiefly on rice, with the few millions of the coasts 
who eat a little fish with their rice. Make a similar 
comparison in China and in Hindostan. Notice, in 
particular, the puny Chinese, who live in southern 
China, on quite a large proportion of shell-fish, com- 
pared with the Chinese of the interior. Extend 
your observations to Hindostan. Do not talk of the 
effeminate habits and weak constitutions of the 
rice and cutry eaters there — bad as the admixture 
of curry may be — for that is to compare the Hin- 
doo with other nations ; but compare Hindoo with 
Hindoo, which is the only fair way. Compare the 
porters of the Mediterranean, both of Asia and 
Europe, who feed on bread and figs, and carry 
weights to the extent of eight hundred or one thou- 
sand pounds, with the porters who eat flesh and 
fish and oil. Compare African with African, Amer- 
ican Indian with American Indian ; nay, even New- 
Englander with New-Englander ; for we have a 
few here who are trained to vegetable eating. In 



232 VEGETABLE DI£T« 

short, go where you will, and institute a fair com- 
parison, and the results will be, without a single 
exception, in favor of a diet exclusively vegetable. 
It is necessary, however, in making the comparison, 
to place good vegetable food in opposition to good 
animal food ; for no one will pretend that a diet of 
crude, miserable or imperfect, or sickly vegetables 
will be as wholesome as one consisting of rich fari- 
naceous articles and fruits ; nor even as many kinds 
of plain meat. 

The only instance which, on a proper comparison, 
will probably be adduced to prove the incorrectness 
of these views, will be that of a few tribes of Amer- 
ican Indians, who, though they have extremely 
robust bodies, are eaters of much flesh. But they 
live also in the open air, and have many other 
good habits, and are healthy in spite of the inferiori- 
ty of their diet. But perfect, physically, as they 
seem to be, and probably are, examine the vegetable- 
eaters among them, of the same tribe, and they will 
be found still more so. 

In the next place, the fluids are all in a better 
und more healthy state. In proof of this, I might 
mention in the first place that superior agility, ease 
of motion, speed and power of endurance which so 
distinguish vegetable-eaters, wherever a fair comj)ar- 
ison is instituted. They possess a suppleness like 
that of youth, even long after what is called the 
juvenile period of life is passed over. They are 
often seen running and jumping, unless restrained 
by the arbitrary customs of society, even in ad- 
vanced age. All this could not happen were there 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 233 

not a good state of the fluids of the system, con- 
joined to a happy state of the solids. 

The vegetable-eater, if temperate in the use of 
his vegetables, and if all his other habits are good, 
will endure, better than the flesh-eater, the extremes 
of heat and cold. This power of endurance has 
ever been allowed to be a sure sign of a good state 
of health. The most vigorous man, as it is well 
known, will endure best both extremes of tempera- 
ture. But it is a proof also of the greater purity of 
his solids and fluids. 

The secretions and excretions of his body are in 
a better state ; and this, again, proves that his blood 
and other fluids are healthy. He does not so read- 
ily perspire excessively as other men, neither is 
there any want of free and easy perspiration. Pro- 
fuse sweating on every trifling.exertion of the body, 
or mind, is as much a disease as a habitually dry 
skin. But the vegetable-eater escapes both of 
these extremes. The saliva, the tears, the milk, 
the gastric juice, the bile, and the other * secre- 
tions and excretions — particularly the dejections — 
are as they should be. Nay, the very exhalations 
of the lungs are purer,- as is obvious from the breath. 
That of a vegetable-eater is perfectly sweet, while 
that of a flesh-eater is often as oflensive as the smell 
of a charnel-house. This distinction is discernible 
even among the brute animals. Those which feed 
on grass, grain, <fcc. have a breath incomparably 
sweeter than those which prey on animals. Com- 
pare the camel, and horse, and cow, and sheep, and 
rabbit, with the tiger, (if you choose to approach 
20* 



234 VEGETABLE DIET. 

him,) the wolf, the dog, the cat and the hawk. One 
comparison will be sufficient ; you will never forget 
it. But there is as mueh difference between the 
odor of the breath of a flesh-eating human being 
and a vegetable-eater, as between those of the dog 
and the lamb. This, however, is a secret to all but 
vegetable-eaters themselves, since none but they, are 
80 situated as to be able to make the comparison. 
But, betake yourself to mealy vegetables and fruits 
a few years, and live temperately on them, and 
then you will perceive the difference, especially 
in riding in a stage-coach This, I confess, is rather a 
draw-back upon the felicity of vegetable-eaters ; but 
it is some consolation to know what a mass of 
corruption we ourselves have escaped. 

There is one more secretion to which I wish to 
direct your attention, which is, the fat or oil. The 
man who lives rightly, and rejects animal food 
among the rest, will never be overburdened with fat. 
He will neither be too corpulent nor too lean. Both 
these conditions are conditions of disease ; though 
as a general rule, corpulence is most to be dreaded ; 
It is, at least, the most disgusting. Fat — I repeat 
it — ^is a secretion. The cells in which it is deposit- 
ed serve for relieving the system of many of the 
crudities and abuses, not to say poisons, which are 
poured into it, cheated, as it were, in some small 
degree into the blood, seci-eted into the fat cells, and 
buried in the fat to be out of the way, and where 
they can do but little mischief. Yet, even here they 
are not wholly harmless. The fat man is almost 
always more exposed to disease, and to severe 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 235 

epidemic disescse in particular, than the lean man. 
Let us leave it to the swine and other kindred 
quadrupeds, to dispose of gro'ss half poisonous mat* 
ter, by converting it into, -or burying it in fat ; let 
us employ our vital forces and energies in something 
better. Above all, let us not descend- to swallow, as 
many have been inclined to do, besides the ancient 
Israelites, this gross secretion, and reduce ourselves 
to the painful necessity of carrying about, from 
day to day, a huge mass of double-refined disease, 
pillaged from the foulest and filthiest of animals. 

Vegetable-eaters — especially if they avoid condi- 
ments, as well as fiesh and fish — are not apt to 
be thirsty. It is a common opinion among the 
laboring portion of the community, that they who 
perspire freely, must drink freely. And yet I have 
known one or two hard laborers who were accus- 
tomed to sweat profusely and freely, who hardly ever 
drank any thing, except a little tea or milk at their 
meals, and yet were remarkably strong and healthy, 
and attained to a great ag6. One of this description, 
(F. L., of Hartford, Conn.,) is now about eighty 
years of age, and bids fair to live ten or twenty 
years longer. How the system is supplied, in such 
cases, with fluid, I do not know ; but I know it is 
not necessary to drink perpetually for the purpose ; 
for if but one healthy man can dispense with drink- 
ing, others may. .The truth is, we seldom drink 
from real thirst. We drink chiefly either from 
habit, or because we have created a morbid or dis- 
eased thirst by improper food or drink, among 
which animal food is pretty conspicuous. 



236 VEGETABLt DI^T. 

I have intimated that, in order to escape thirst, 
the y^[etable-eater must abstain also from condi- 
ments. This he will "be apt to do. It is he who 
eats flesh and fish, and drinks something besides 
water, who feels such an imperious necessity for 
condiments. The vegetable and milk eater, and 
water-drinker, does not need them. 

It is in this view, that the vegetable system lies 
at tlie foundation of all reform in the matter of 
temperance. So long as the use of animal food is 
undisturbed and its lawfulness unquestioned, all 
our efforts to heal the maladies of society are super- 
ficial. The wound is not yet probed to the bottom. 
But, renounce animal food, restore us to our proper 
condition, and feed us on milk and farinaceous 
articles, and our fondness for excitement and our 
hankering for exciting drinks and condiments will, 
in a few generations, die away. Animal food is a 
root of all evil, so far as temperance is concerned, 
in its most popular and restricted sense. 

The pure vegetabje-eaters, especially those who 
are trained as such, seldom drink at all. Some use 
a little water with their meials, and a few drink 
occasionally between them, especially if they labor 
much in the open air, and perspire freely. Some 
taste nothing in the form of drink for months, unless 
we call the abundant juices of apples and other 
fruits, and milk, <fcc. by that name — of which, by 
the way, they are exceedingly fond. The reason 
iS; they are seldom thirsty. Dr. Lambe, of London, 
doubts whether man is naturally a drinking animal ; 
but I do not carry the matter so far. Still I believe 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 237 

that ninety-nine hundredths of the drink which is 
used, as now used, does more harm than good. 

He who avoids flesh and fish, escapes niuch of 
that languor and faintness, at particular hours, 
which others feel. He has usually a clear and quiet 
head in the morning. He is ready, and willing, and 
glad to rise in due season ; and his morning feelings 
are apt to last all day. He has none of that 
faintness between his meals which many have, 
and which tempts thousands to luncheons, drams, 
tobacco, snuflf and opium, and ultimately destroys 
so much health and life. The truth is, that veg- 
etable food is not only more quiet and unstimu- 
lating than any other, but it holds out longer also. I 
know the contrary of this is the general belief; but 
it is not well founded. Animal food stimulates 
most, and as the stimulus goes ofi" soon, we are liable 
to feel dull after it, and to fancy we need the stimulus 
of drink or something else to keep us up till the 
arrival of another meal. And, having acquired a 
habit of relying on our food to stimulate us immedi- 
ately, much more than to give us real, lasting, 
permanent strength, it is no wonder we feel, for a 
time, a faintness if we discontinue its i;se. This 
only shows the power of habit, and the over-stimu- 
lating character of our accustomed food. Nor does 
the simple vegetable-eater sufier, during the spring, 
as other people say they do. All is cheerful and 
happy with him, even then. Nor, lastly, is he sub- 
ject to hypochondria or depression of spirits. He is 
always lively and cheerful; and all with him is 
bright and happy. As it has been expressed else- 



238 VEGETABLE DIET. 

where, with the truly temperate man, it is " morning 
all day." 

The system of diet in question, greatly improves, 
exalts and perfects the senses. The sight, smell, 
and taste are rendered greatly superior by it. The 
difference in favor of the hearing and the touch may 
not be so obvious ; nevertheless, it is believed to be 
considerable. But the change in the other senses, — 
the first three which I have named, — even when we 
reform as late as at thirty-five or forty, is wonderfiil. 
I do not wish to encourage, by this, a delay of the 
work of reformation ; we can never begin it too 
early. 

Vegetable diet favors beauty of form and fea- 
ture. The forms of the natives of some of the 
South Sea Islands, to say nothing of their features, 
are exceedingly fine. They are tall and well pro- 
portioned. So it is with the Japanese and Chinese, 
especially of the interior, where they subsist almost 
wholly on rice and fruits. The Japanese are the 
finest men, physically speaking, in Asia. The New 
Hollanders, on the contrary, who live almost wholly 
on flesh and fish, are among the most meagre and 
ugly of the human race, if we except the flesh-eat- 
ing savages of the north, and the Greenlanders and 
Laplanders. In short, the principle I have here 
advanced will hold, as a general ntle^ I believe, 
other things being equal, throughout the world. If 
it be asked whether I would exalt beauty and sym- 
metry into virtues, I will only say that they are not 
without their use in a virtuous people ; and I look 
forward to a period in the world's history, when all 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ARGUMENT. 239 

will be comparatively well formed and beautiful. 
Beauty is exceedingly influential, as every one must 
have observed who has been long in the world, at 
least, if he has had his eyes open ; and it is proba- 
bly right that it should be so. Our beauty is al- 
most as much within our control, as a race, as our 
conduct. 

A vegetable diet, moreover, promotes and pre- 
serves a clearness and a generally healthful state of 
the mental faculties. I believe that much of the 
moral as well as intellectual error in the world, 
arises from a state of mind which is produced by the 
introduction of improper liquids and solids into the 
stomach, or, at least, by their application to the ner- 
vous system. Be this as it may, however, there is 
nothing better for the brain than a temperate diet of 
well-selected vegetables, and water for drink. This 
Sir Isaac Newton and hundreds of others could 
abundantly attest. 

It also favors an evenness and tranquillity of tem- 
per, which is of almost infinite value. The most 
fiery and vindictive have been enabled, by this 
means, when all other means had failed, to trans- 
form themselves into rational beings, and to become, 
in this very respect, patterns to those around them. 
If this were its only advantage, in a physiological 
point of view, it would be of more value thai! 
worlds. It favors, too, simplicity of character. It 
makes us, in the language of the Bible, to remain, 
or to become ; as little children, and it preserves our 
juvenile character and habits through life, and gives 
us a green old age. 



240 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Finally and lastly, it gives us an independence of 
external things and circumstances, that can never 
be attained without it. In vain may we resort to 
early discipline and correct education — in vain to 
moral and religious training — in vain, I had almost 
said, to the promises and threatenings of Heaven 
itself, so long as we continue the use of food so 
unnatural to man as the flesh of animals, with the 
condiments and sauces, and improper drinks which 
follow in its train. Our hope, under God, is, in no 
small degree, on a radical change in man's dietetic 
habits — in a return to that simple path of truth and 
nature, from which, in most civilized countries, 
those who have the pecuniary means of doing it 
have unwisely departed. 

III. THE MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 

If perfect health is the best preventive and secu- 
rity against disease, and if a well-selected and 
properly-administered vegetable diet is best calculat- 
ed to promote and preserve that perfect health — then 
this part of the subject — what I have ventured to 
call the medical argument — would be at once dis- 
posed of. The superiority of the diet I commend 
would be established beyond the possibility of de- 
bate. Now, that this is the case — namely, that this 
diet is best calculated tp promote perfect health— I 
have no doubt. For the sake of others, however, it 
may be well to adduce a few facts, and present a few 
brief considerations. 

It is now pretty generally known that Howard, the 



MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 241 

philanthropist, was,'for abont forty years, a vegetabl6- 
eater, subsisting for much of this time on bread and 
tea, and that he went through every form of expo- 
sure to disease, contagious and non-contagious, per- 
fectly unharmed. And had it not been for other 
physical errors than those which pertain to diet, I 
know of no reason why his life might not have been 
preserved many years longer — perhaps to this time. 

Rev. Josiah Brewer, now a missionary in Sm3rrna, 
has been very much exposed to disease, and, like 
Mr. Howard, to the plague itself; and yet I am not 
aware that he has ever had a single sick day as the 
consequence of his exposure. I do not know with 
certainty that he abstains entirely from flesh meat, 
but he is said to be rigidly temperate in other re- 
spects. 

Those who have read Rush's Inquiries and other 
writings, are aware that he was very much exposed 
to the- yellow fever in Philadelphia, during the years 
in which it prevailed there. Now, there is great 
reason for believing that he owed hife exemption 
from the disease, in part at least, to his great tem- 
perance. 

Mr. James, a teacher in Siberia in Africa, had ab- 
stained for a few years from animal food, prior to 
his going out to Africa. Immediately after his 
arrival there, and during the sickly season, one of 
his companions who went out with him, died of the 
fever. Mr. James was attacked slightly, but re- 
covered. . 

Another vegetable-eater — the Rev. Mr. Crocker — 
went out to a sickly part of Africa some years sinee^' 
21 



242 VEGETABLE DIET. 

and has remained at his station, thus far, in perfect 
health ; while many of his friends have sickened or 
died. 

Gen. Thomas Sheldon, of this state, a vegetable- 
eater, has spent several years in the most sickly 
parts of the Southern United States, with an entire 
immunity from disease ; and he gives it as his opin- 
ion, that it is no matter where we are, so that our 
dietetic and other habits are correct. 

Mr. G. McElroy, of Kentucky, spent several 
months of the most sickly season in the most un- 
healthy parts of Africa, in the year 1835, and yet 
enjoyed the best of health the whole time. While 
there and on his passage home, he abstained wholly 
from animal food, living on rice and other farina- 
ceous vegetables and fruits. 

In view of these facts and many others, Mr. Gra- 
ham remarks, " under a proper regimen our enter- 
prising young men of New England may go to 
New Orleans or Liberia, or any where else they 
choose, and stay as long as they choose, and yet 
enjoy good health." And there is no doubt he is 
right. 

But it is hardly worth while . to cite single facts 
in proof of a point of this kind. There is abundant 
testimony to be had, going to show that a vegetable 
diet is a security against disease, especially against 
epidemics, whether in the form of a mere influenza 
or malignant fever. Nay, there is reason to believe 
that a person lirving according to all the Creator's 
laws, physical and moral, could hardly receive or 
communicate disease of any kind. How coujd a 



MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 243 

person in perfect health, and obeying, to an iota, all 
the laws of health — how could he contract disease? 
What would there be in his system which could 
furnish a nidus for its reception ? 

I am well aware that not a few people suppose 
the most healthy are as much exposed to disease as 
others ; and that there are some who even suppose 
they are much more so. "Death delights in a 
shining mark," or something to this effect, is a 
maxim which has probably had its origin in the 
error to which I have adverted. To the same 
source may be traced the strange opinion that a 
fatal or malignant disease makes its first and most 
despeTate attacks upon the healthy and the robust. 
The fact is — and this explains the whole riddle — 
those who are regarded, by the superficial and short- 
sighted in this matter, as the most healthy and 
robust, are usually persons whose unhealthy habits 
have already sown the seeds of disease ; and noth- 
ing is wanting but the usual circumstances of epi- 
demics, to rouse them into action. More than all 
this, these strong-looking but inwardly-diseased per- 
sons are almost Sure to die whenever disease does 
attack them, simply on account of the previous 
abuses of their constitutions. 

During the prevalence of the cholera in New 
York, about the year 1832, all the Grahamites, as 
they were called, who had for some time abstained 
from animal food — and their number was quite 
respectable — and who persevered in it, either whol- 
ly escaped the disease, or had it very lightly ; and 
this, too, notwithst£inding a large proportion of them 



844 TE6ETABI.E DIET. 

weie very much exposed to its attacks, Imng in 
tfie parts cl the city where it most preTailed, or 
in families where others were dying almost daily. 
This could not be the result of mere accident ; 
it is morally impossible. 

But flesh-eaters — admitting the flesh were whole- 
some — are not only much more liable to contract 
disease, but if they contract it, to sufier more se- 
verely than others. There is yet another important 
consideration which belongs to the medical argu- 
ment. Animal food is much more liable than 
regetable food, to those changes or conditions which 
we call poisonous, and which are ^ways, in a 
greater or less degree, the sources of disease ; it is 
also more liable to poisonous mixtures or adultera- 
tions. 

It is true, that, in the present state of the arts and of 
agriculture and civic life generally, vegetables them- 
selves are sometimes the sources of disease. I refer 
not to the spurred rye and other substances, which 
occasionally find their way into our fields and g^t 
mixed with our grains, &c., and which are known 
to be very active poisons, — so much as to the acrid 
or otherwise improper juices which are formed by 
forced vegetation, especially about cities, whether by 
means of hot-beds, green-houses, or new, strong, or 
highly-concentrated manures. I refer also to the 
crude, unripe, and imperfect fruits and other things 
with which our markets are filled now-a-days ; and 
especially to decaying fruits and vegetables. But I 
cannot enlarge ; a volume would be too little to do 
this part of the subject justice. Nothing is more 
wanted than light on this subject, and a consequent 



MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 246 

reform in our fashionable agriculture and horticul- 
ture. 

And yet, although I admit, most cheerfully, the 
danger we are in of contracting disease by using 
diseased vegetables, the danger is neither so fre- 
quent nor so imminent, in proportion to the quantity 
of it consumed, as from animal food. Let us briefly 
take a view of the facts. 

Milk, in its nature, approaches nearest to the line 
of the vegetable kingdom, and is therefore, in my 
view, the least objectionable form of animal food. 
I am even ready to admit that for persons affected 
with certain forms of chronic disease, and for all 

* 

children, milk is excellent. And yet, excellent as it 
is, it is very liable to be injurious. We are told, by 
the most respectable medical men of France, that all 
the cows about Paris have tubercles (the seeds or 
beginning of consumption) in their lungs ; which 
is probably owing to the unnatural state in which 
they are kept, as regards the kind, and quantity, and 
hours of receiving their food ; and especially as re- 
gards air, exercise, and water. Cows cannot be 
healthy, nor any other domestic animals, any more 
than men, when long subjecteti to the unnatural 
and* unhealthy influences of bad air, want of exer- 
cise, (fcc. Hence, then, most of our cows about our 
towns and cities must be diseased, in a greater or 
less degree — if not with consumption, with some- 
thing else. And of course their milk must be dis- 
eased — not, perhaps as much as their blood and flesh, 
but more or less so. But if milk is diseased, the but- 
ter and cheese made from it must be diseased also. 

21* 



246 VEGETABLE BIET. 

But milk is sometimes diseased through the vege- 
tables which are eaten by the cow. Every one 
knows how readily the sensible properties of certain 
acrid plants are perceived in the milk. Hence, as I 
have elsewhere intimated, we are doubly exposed 
to danger from eating animal food ; first, from the 
diseases of the animal itself, and secondly, from the 
diseases, which are liable to be induced upon us by 
the v^etables tliey use, some of which are not poi- 
sonous to them, but are so to us. So that, in avoid- 
ing animal food, we escape at least a part of the 
danger. 

Besides the general fact, that almost all medical 
and dietetic writers object to fat, and to butter 
among the rest, as difficult of digestion and tending 
Id cutaneous and other diseases, — and besides the 
general admission in society at large that it makes 
the skin " break out,*' — it must be obvious that it is 
Uable to retain, in a greater or less degree, all the 
poisonous properties which existed in the milk from 
which it was made. Next to fat pork, butter seems 
to me one of the worst things that ever entered a 
human stomach ; and if it will not, Uke pork, quite 
cause the leprosy, it will cause almost every other 
skin disease which is known. 

Cheese is often poisoned now-a-days by design. 
I do not mean to say that the act of poisoning is 
accompanied by malice toward mankind ; far from 
it. It is added to color it, as in the form of anatto ; 
or to give it freshness and tenderness, as in the case 
of arsenic* 

* For proof that arsenic or ratsbane is sometimes added to 
cheese, see the Library of Health, volume ii., page 69. In proof of 



MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 247 

Eggs, when not fresh, are more or less liable to ' 
disease. I might even say more. When not fresh, 
they are diseased. On this point, we have the 
testimony of Drs. Willich and Dunglison. The 
truth is, that the yolk of the egg has a strong -ten- 
dency to decomposition, and this decomposing. or 
putrefying process begins long before it is perceived, 
or even suspected, by most people. There is much 
reason for believing that a large proportion of the 
eggs eaten in civic life, — except when we keep the 
poultry ourselves, — are, when used, more or less in 
a state of decomposition. And yet, into how many 
hundred forms of food do they enter in fashionable 
life, or in truth, in almost every condition of society ! 
The French cooks are said to have six hundred and 
eighty-five methods of cooking the egg^ including 
all the various sorts of pastry, &c., of which it 
forms a component part. 

One of the grand objections against animal food, 
of almost all sorts, is, that it tends with such com- 
parative rapidity to decomposition. Such is at least 
the case with eggs, flesh, and fish of every kind. 
The usual way of preventing the decomposition is 
by processes scarcely less hurtful — by the addition 
of salt, pyroligneous acid, saltpetre, lime, &c. These, 
to be sure, prevent putrefaction ; but they render 
every thing to which they are applied, unless it is 
the Qgg^ the more indigestible. 

It is a strange taste, in mankind, by the way, 
which leads them to prefer things in a state of in- 

the poisonous tendency of milk and butter, see Whitlaw's Theory 
of Fever, and Clark's Treatise on Palmanary Consumption. 



248 VEGETABLE DIET. 

• 

cipient decomposition. And yet, such a taste cer- 
tainly prevails widely. Many like the flesh beaten ; 
hence the origin of the cruel practice of the east of 
whipping animals to death.* And most persons like 
fresh meat kept till it begins to be tender ; that is, 
begins to putrefy. So most persons like fermented 
beer better than that which is unfermented, al- 
though fermentation is a step towards putrefaction ; 
and they like vinegar, too, which is also far 
advanced in the same road. 

That diseased food causes diseases in the persons 
who use it, needs not, one would think, a single 
testimony ; and yet, I will name a few. 

Dr. Paris, speaking of fish, says, — " It is not im- 
probable that certain cutaneous diseases may be 
produced, or at least aggravated by such diet." Dr. 
Dunglison says, bacon and cured meats are often 
poisonous. He speaks of the poisonous tendency of 
eggs, and says, that all made dishes are more or 
less " rebellious." In Aurillac, in France, not many 
years since, fifteen or sixteen persons were attacked 
with symptoms of cholera after eating the milk of 
a certain goat. The goat died with cholera about 
twenty-four hours after, and two men, no less emi- 
nent than Professors Orfila and Marc, gave it as 
their undoubted opinion that the cholera symptoms 
alluded to, were caused by the milk. I have my- 
self known oysters at certain times and seasons to 
produce the isame symptoms. During the progress 
of a mortal disease among the poultry on Edisto 
Island, S. C. in 1837, all the dogs and vultures that 

♦ See Dunglison's Hygiene, page 250. 



MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 249 

tasted of the flesh of the dead poultry sickened and 
died. Chrisiston mentions an instance in which five 
persons were poisoned by eating beef; and Diingli- 
son one in which fourteen persons were made sick, 
and some died, from eating the meat of a calf. 
Between the years 1793 and 1827, it is on record 
that there were in the kingdom of Wurtemburg 
alone, no less than two hundred and thirty-four 
cases of poisoning, and one hundred and ten deaths, 
from eating sausages. But I need not multiply this 
sort of evidence, the world abounds with it ; though 
for one person who is poisoned so much as to be 
made sick immediately, hundreds perhaps are only 
slightly affected ; and the punishment may seem to 
be deferred for many years. 

The truth, in short, is, that every fashionable pro- 
cess of fattening and even of domesticating animals, 
induces disease ; and as most of the animals we use 
for food are domesticated or fattened, or both, it 
follows that most of our animal food, whether milk, 
butter, cheese, eggs, or flesh, is diseased food, and 
must inevitably, sooner or later, induce disease in 
those who receive it. Those which are most fatten- 
ed are the worst, of course ; as the hog, the goose, 
the sheep, and the ox. The more the animal is re- 
moved from a natural state, in fattening, tlie more 
does the fat accumulate, and the more it is diseased. 
Hence the complaints against every form of animal 
oil or fat, in every age, by men who, notwithstand- 
ing their complaints, for the most part, continue to 
set mankind an example of its use. 

Let me here introduce a single paragraph from 



VEGETABLE BIET. 



Dr. Cheyne, which is veiy much to my present 
purpose. 

"About London, we can scarce hare any but 
cranuned poultry or stall-fed butchers' meat. It 
were sufficient to disgrust the stoutest stomach to 
see the foul, gross and nasty manner in which, and 
the fetid, putrid, and unwholesome materials with 
which they are fed. Perpetual foulness and cramr 
ming, gross food and nastiness, we know, will putrefy 
the juices, and corrupt the muscular substance of 
human creatures — and sure they can do no less in 
brute animals — and thus make our food poison. 
The same may be said of hot-beds, and forcing 
plants and vegetables. The only way of having 
sound and healthful animals, is to leave them to 
their own natural liberty in the free air, and their 
own proper element, with plenty of food and due 
cleanliness ;, and a shelter from the injuries of the 
weather, whenever they have a mind to retire to it." 

The argument then is, that, for healthy adults at 
least, a well selected vegetable diet, other things 
being equal, is a preventive of disease, and a securi- 
ty against its violence, should it attack us, in a far 
greater degree than a diet which includes animal 
food in any of its numerous forms. It will either 
prevent the common diseases of childhood, includ- 
ing those which are deemed contagious, or render 
their attacks extremely mild : it will either prevent 
or mitigate the symptoms of the severe diseases of 
adults, not excepting malignant fevers, small-pox, 



MEDICAL ARGUMENT. 251 

plague, &c. ; and it will either prevent such dis- 
eases as cancer, gout, epilepsy, scrofula, and con- 
sumption,or prolong life under them. 

Who that has ever thought of the condition of 
our domestic animals, especially about towns and 
cities — their want of good air, abundant exercise, 
good water, and natural food, to say. nothing of 
the butter-cup and the other poisonous products 
of over-stimulating or fresh manures which they 
sometimes eat — has not been astonished to find so 
little disease among us as there actually is? Ani- 
mal food, in its best state, is a great deal more stimu- 
lating and heating to the system than vegetable 
food ; — but how much more injurious is it made, in 
the circumstances in which most animals are 
placed ? Do we believe that even a New Zealand 
cannibal would willingly eat flesh, if he knew it was 
from an animal that when killed was laboring under 
a load of liver complaint, gout, consumption or 
fever? And yet, such is the condition of most of 
the animals we slay for food. They would often 
die of their diseases if we did not put the knife to 
their throats to prevent it. 

One more consideration. If the exclusive use of 
vegetable food will prevent a multitude of the 
worst and most incurable diseases to which human 
nature, in other circumstances, seems liable; if it 
will modify the diseases which a mixed diet or 
absolute intemperance, or gluttony had induced, — 
by what rule can we limit its influence ? How know 
we that what is so efficacious in regard to the 
larger diseases, will not be equally so in the case 



252 VEGETABLE DIET. 

of all smaller ones ? And wby, then, may not its 
nniversal adoption, after a few generations, banish 
disease entirely from the world? Every person of 
common observation, knows that, as a general rule, 
they who approach the nearest to a pure v^etable 
and water diet, are most exempt from disease, and 
the longest-lived and most happy. How, then, can 
it otherwise happen than that a still closer approxi- 
mation will afford a greater exemption still, and so 
on indefinitely. At what point of an approach to- 
wards such diet and regimen, and towards perfect 
health at the same time, is it that we stop, and more 
temperance still will injure us? In short, where do 
we cross the line? 

IV. THE POLITICAL ARGUMENT. 

1 have dwelt at such length on the physiological 
and medical arguments in defence of the vegetable 
system, that I must compress my remaining views 
into the smallest space possible ; especially those 
which relate to its political, national, or general ad- 
vantages. 

Political economists tell us that the produce of an 
acre of land in wheat, corn, potatoes and other vege- 
tables, and in fruits, will sustain animal life sixteen 
times as long as when the produce of the same acre 
is converted into flesh, by feeding and fattening 
animals upon it. 

But, if we admit that this estimate is too high, 
and if the real difference is only eight to one, instead 
of sixteen to one, the results may perhaps surprise 



POLITICAL ARaUMENT. 263 

us; and if we have not done it before, may lead us 
to reflection. Let us see what some of them are. 

The people of the United States are believed to 
eat, upon the average, an amount of animal food 
equal at least to one whole meal once a day, and 
tbo'se of Great Britain one in two days. But taking 
this estimate to be correct, Great Britain by sub- 
stituting vegetable for animal food, might sustain 
forty-nine instead of twenty-one millions of inhabit- 
ants, and the United States fifty millions instead of fif- 
teen ; and this, too, in their present comfort, and with- 
out clearing up any more hew land. Here then we 
are consuming that, unnecessarily, — if animal food 
is unnecessary, — which would sustain sixty-three 
millions of human beings in life, and healthy and 
happiness. 

Now, if life is a blessing at all, — if it is a blessing 
to twenty-one millions in Great Britain, and fifteen 
milHonsinthe United States,— then to add to this 
population an increase of sixty-three millions, would 
be to ihcr^a^e, in the same proportion, the aggregate 
of human happiness. And if, in addition to this, 
we admit the very generally received principle, that 
there is a tendency, from th^ nature of things,, in thef 
population of any country, to keep up with the 
means of support, we, of Great Britain and America, 
keep down, at the present moment, by flesh-eating, 
sixty-three njillions of inhabitants. 

We dt)'not destroy them, in the full sense of the 
term, it is true, for they never had an existence. 
But we prevent ^eir coming into the possession of 
a joyous and happy existence ; and though we have 

22 



264 VEGETABLE DIET. 

no name for it, is it not a crime? What ! no crime 
for thirty-^ve millions of people to prevent and pre- 
clude the existence of sixty-three millions 7 

I see no way of evading the force of this argu- 
ment, except by denying the premises on which I 
have founded my conclusions. But they are far 
more easily denied than disproved. The probability, 
after all, is that my estimates are too low, and that 
the advantages of an exclusively vegetable diet, in 
a national or political point of view, are even greater 
than is here represented. I do not deny, that some 
deduction ought to be made on account of the con- 
sBmption of fish, which does not prevent the growth 
or use of vegetable products ; but my belief is that, 
including them, the animal food we use amounts to 
a great deal more than one meal a day, or one third 
of bur whole living. 

Suppose there were no crime in shutting human 
beings out of existence by flesh-eating, at the 
^mazing rate I have mentioned — still, is it not, I re- 
peat it, a great national or political loss ? Or, will 
it be said, in its defence, as has been said in defence 
of war, if not of intemperance and some of the forms 
of licentiousness, that as the world is, it is a blessing 
to keep down its population, otherwise it would soon 
be overstocked ? The argument would be as good 
in one case as ip the other ; that is, it is not valid in 
either. The world might be made to sustain, in 
comfort, even in the present comparatively infant 
state of the arts and sciences, at least forty or fifty 
times its present number of inhabitants. It will 
be time enough a thousand or two thousand years 



ECONOMICAL ARGUMENT. 266 

to come, to begin to talk about the danger of the 
world's being over peopled ; and, above all, to talk 
about justifying what we know is, in the abstract, 
very wrong, to prevent a distant imagined evil; 
one, in fact, which may not, and probably will not 
ever exist. 

T, THE ECONOMICAL ARGUMENT. 

The economy of the vegetable «j^em is so inti- 
mately connected with its political*- or national ad- 
vantages — that is, so depends on, or grows out 
of them, that I hesitated for some time, before I de- 
cided to consider it separately. Whatever is shown 
clearly to be for the general good policy and well* 
being of society, cannot be prejudicial to the best 
interests of the individuals who compose that 
society. StiU, there are some minor considerations 
that I wish to present under this head, that could 
not so well have been introduced any where else. 

There is, indeed, one reason for omitting wholly 
the consideration of the pecuniary advantages of the 
system which I anl attempting to defend. The 
public, to some extent, at once consider him who 
adverts to this topic, as parsimonious or mean. But, 
conscious as I am of higher objects, in consulting 
economy, than the saving of money, that it may be 
expended on things of no more value than the mere 
indulgence or gratj^cation of the appetites or the 
passions, in a world where there are minds to edu- 
cate and souls to save, I have ventured to treat on 
the subject. 



^66 VEGETABLE DIET. 

It must be obvious, at a single glance, that if the 
vegetable products of an acre of land — such as 
wheat, rye, corn, barley, potatoes, beans, peas, tur* 
nips, beets, apples, strawberries, <fcc. — will sustain a 
fiimily in equal health eight times as long as the 
pork, or beef, or mutton which the same vegetables 
would make by feeding them to domestic animals, — 
it must be just as mistaken a policy for the individual 
to make the latter disposition of these products, as 
for a nation to. do so. Nations are made of individ- 
uals ; and, as I have already said, whatever is best, 
in the end, for the one, must also be the best, as 
a general rule, for the other. 

But, who has not been familiar, from his very in- 
&ncy, with the maxim that " a good garden will 
half support a family ? " And who that is at all 
informed in regard to the manners and customs of 
the old world, does not know that the maxim has 
been verified there, time immemorial ? But, again ; 
who has not considered, that if a garden of a given 
size will half support a faniily, one twice as large 
would support it wholly ? 

The truth is, it needs but a very small spot in- 
deed, of good soil, for raising all the necessaries of a 
family. I think Ihave shown, in another work,* that 
five hundred and fifty pounds of Indian or corn meal, 
or ten bushels of the corn, properly cooked, will sup- 
port, or more than support an adult individual, ayear. 
Four times this amount is a )jpry large allowance 
for a family of five persons ; nay, even three times 

. * The Young House-Keeper. 



ECONOMICAL ARGUMENT. 257 

is sufficient. But how small a spot of good soil is 
required for raising thirty bushels of corn ! 

It is true, no family would wish to be confined a 
whole year to this one kind of food ; nor do I wish 
to have it so : not that I think any serious mis- 
chiefs would arise, as the consequence ; but I 
should prefer, for my own part, a greater variety. 
But this does not materially alter the case. Suppose 
an acre and a half of land were required for the 
production of thirty bushels of corn. Let the culti- 
vator, if he chooses, raise only fifteen bushels of 
corn, and sow the remainder with barley, or rye, or 
wheat. Or, if he prefer it, let him plant the one half 
of the piece with beans, peas, potatoes, beets, onions, 
&c. The one half of the space devoted to the pro- 
duction of some sort of grain would still half sup- 
port his family ; and it would require more than 
ordinary gluttony in a family of five persons, to 
consume the produce of the other half, if the crops 
were but moderately abundant. A quarter of an 
acre of it, ought to produce, at least, sixty bushels 
of potatoes ; but this, alone, would give such a fami- 
ly about ten pounds of potatoes or one-sixth of a 
bushel a day, for every day in the year — which is 
a tolerable allowance of food, with outthe grain and 
other vegetables. 

But, suppose a whole family were to live wholly 
oft grain, as corn, or even wheat, for the year ; the 
whole expenditure would hardly exceed fifty dol- 
lars, in dear places and in the dearest times. Of 
course, I am speaking, now, of expenses for food 
and drink merely — the latter of which usually 
22* 



258 VEGETABLE DIET. 

costs nothing, or need not. . How small- a sum is 
this to expend, in New York, or Boston, or Philadel- 
phia, in the maintenance of a family ! And yet, it 
is amply sufficient for the vegetable-eater ; unless 
his family live exclusively on wheat bread, or milk, 
when it might fall a little short. Of corn, at a 
dollar a bushel, it would give him eight pounds ^ 
day — far more than a family ought to consume, if 
they ate nothing else ; and of potatoes, at forty cents 
a bushel, above twenty pounds, or one third of a 
bushel — more than sufficient for the family of an 
Hibernian. 

Now, let me ask how much beef, or lamb, or pork, 
or sausages, or e^s, or cheese, this would buy ? At 
ten cents a pound, for each, which is comparatively 
low, it would buy five hundred pounds ; about one 
pound and six ounces for the whole family, or four 
or five ounces each, a day. This would be an 
average amount of nutriment equal to that of about 
two ounces of grain, or bread of grain a day, to 
each individual. In so far as laid out in butter, or 
chicken, or turkey, at twenty cents a pound, it 
would giva also about two or three ounces a day ! 

Further remarks under this head can hardJy be . 
necessary. He who considers the subject, in its 
various aspects, will be likely to see the weight of 
the argument. There is a wide difference between 
a system which will give to each member of a fam- 
ily, upon the average, only about four or five ounces 
of food a day, and one which will give each of 
thejn more than twenty-five ounces a day, each 
ounce of the latter containing twice the nutriment 



EXPERIMENTAL ARGUMENT. 269 

of the former, and being much more savory and 
healthy, at the same time. There is a wide diflfer- 
ence, in matters of, economy at least, between one 
and TEN. 

VI. THE ARGUMENT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

•A person trained in the United States or in Eng- 
land — but especially one who was trained in New 
England — might very naturally suppose that all 
the world were flesh-eaters ; and that the person 
who abstains from an article which is at almoet 
every one's table, was quite singular. He would, 
perhaps, suppose there must be something peculiar 
in his structure, to enable him to live without either 
flesh or fish ; particularly, if he were a laborer. 
Little would he dream — little does a person who 
has not had much opportunity for reading, and who 
has not been taught to reflect, and who has never 
travelled a day's journey from, the place which gave 
him birth, even so much as dream — that almost all 
the world, or at least almost all the hard-laboring 
part of it, are vegetable-eaters, and always have 
been ; and that it is only in a few comparatively 
small portions of the civilized and half-civilized 
world, that the bone and sinew of our race ever eat 
flesh or fish for any thing more than as a' condiment 
or seasoning to the rest of their food, or even taste 
it at all. And yet such is the fact. 

It is true, that in a vast majority of cases, as I 
have already intimated, laborers are vegetable-eaters 
from necessity ; they cannot get flesh. Almost all 



260 VEGETABLE DIET. 

mankind, as they are usaally trained, are fond of 
extra stimulants, if they can get them ; and whether 
they are called savages or civilized men, will in- 
dulge in them more or less, if they are to be had, 
unless their intellectual and moral natures have 
been so well developed and cultivated, as to have 
acquired the ascendancy. Spirits, wine, cider, beer, 
coffee, tea, condiments, tobacco, opium, snuff, flesh- 
Meat, and a thousand other things, which excite, for 
a time, more pleasurable sensations than water and 
plain vegetables and fruits, will be sought with more 
or less eagerness according to the education which 
has been received, and according to our power of 
self-government. 

I have said that most persons are vegetable-eaters 
from necessity, not from choice. There are some 
tribes in the equatorial regions who seem to be ex- 
ceptions to this rule ; and yet I am not quite satis- 
fied they are so. Some children, among us, who 
are trained to a very simple diet, will seem to shrink 
from tea or coflee, or alcohol, or camphor, and even 
from any thing which is much heated, when first 
presented to them. But, train the same children to 
the ordinary complex, high-seasoned diet of this 
country, and it will not take long to find out that 
they are ready to acquire the habit, of relishing the 
excitement of almost all sorts of unnaturals which 
can be presented them. And if there are tribes of 
men who at first refuse flesh meat, I apprehend they 
do so for the same reasons which leads a child 
among us, who is trained simply to refuse hot food 
and drink, or at least, hot tea and coffee, when the 
latter are first presented to him. 



EXPERIMENTAL ARGUMENT. 261 

Gutzlaff, the Chinese traveller and missionary, has 
found that the Chinese of the interior, who have 
scarcely ever tasted flesh or fish, soon acquire a 
wonderful relish for it, just as our children do for 
spirituous or exciting drinks and drugs, and as 
savages do for tobacco and spirits. But he has also 
made another discovery, which is, that flesh-eating 
almost ruins them for labor. Instead of being 
strong, robust, and active, they soon become lazy, 
self-indulgent and effeminate. This is a specimen 
'• — perhaps a tolerably fair one — of the natural 
tendency of such food in all ages and countries. 
Man every where does best, nationally and individu- 
ally, other things being equal, on a well-chosen diet 
of vegetables, fruits, and water. In proportion as 
individuals or families, or tribes, or nations, depart 
from this — other things being equal — in the same 
proportion do they degenerate physically, intellectu- 
ally, and morally. 

Such a statement may startle some of my New 
England readers, perhaps, who have never had 
opportunity to become acquainted with facts as they 
are. But can it be successfully controverted ? Is it 
not true, that, with a few exceptions, — and those 
more apparent than real, — nations have flourished 
and continued to flourish, in proportion as they have 
retained the more natural dietetic habits to which I 
have alluded ; and that they have been unhappy or 
short-lived, as nations, in proportion as exciting 
food and drink have been used ? Is it not true, that 
those individuals, families, tribes and nations, which 
h&ve used what I call excitements, liquid or solid, 



262 VEGETABLE DIET. 

have been subjected by them to the same eflSxts 
which follow the use of spirits — first, invigoratioo, 
and subsequently decline, and ultimately a loss of 
strength? Why is it that the more wealthy, all 
over Europe, who get flesh more or less, deteriorate 
in their families so rapidly ? Why is it that every 
thing is, in this respect, so stationary among the 
middle classes and the poor ? 

In short — for the case appears to me a plain one 
— it is the simple habits of some, whether we speak 
of nations, families, dr individuals, which have pre- 
served the world from going to utter decay. In 
ancient times, the Egyptians the most enlightened 
and one of the most enduring of nations were, what 
might properly be called a vegetable-eating nation ; 
so were the ancient Persians, in the days of their 
greatest glory ; so the Romans, as I have said else- 
where, and the Greeks. Indeed, empire seems to 
have departed from among them precisely when 
simplicity departed from among the people. So it is 
with nations still. A flesh-eating nation may retain 
the supremacy of the world a short time, as several 
European and American nations have done; just 
as the laborer, whose brain and nerves are stimulated 
by ardent spirits, may for a time retain -r-through the 
medium of an artificial strength — the ascendancy 
among his fellow-laborers ; but the triumph of both 
the nation and the individual must be short, and 
the debility which follows proportionable. And if 
the United States, as a nation, seem to form an ex- 
ception to the truth of this remark, it is only because 
the stage of debility has not yet arrived. Let us be 
patient, however, for it is not far off. 



EXPERIlilENTAL ARGUMENT. 263 

But, to come to the specification of facts. The 
Japanese, of the interior, according to some of the 
British geographers, live principally upon rfce and 
fruits — a single handful of rice often forming the 
basis of their frugal meal. Flesh, it is said, they 
either cannot get, or do not like ; and to milk, even, 
they have the same sort of aversion which most of 
us have to blood. It is only a few of them, com- 
paratively, aiid those principally who live about the 
coasts, who ever use either flesh or fish. And yet 
we have the concurring testimony of all geographers 
and travellers, that in their physical and intellectual 
development at least, to say nothing of their moral 
peculiarities, they are the finest men in all Asia. In 
what other country of Asia are schools and eafly 
education in such high reputation as in Japan? 
Where are the inhabitants so well formed, so stout 
made, and so robust? Compare them with the 
natives of New Holland, in the same, or nearly the 
san^e longitude, and about as far south of the 
equator, as the Japanese are north of it, and what 
a contract! The New Hollanders, though eating 
flesh liberally, are not only mere savages, but they 
are among the most meagre and wretched of the 
human race, On the contrary, the Japanese, in 
mind and body, are scarcely behind the middle 
nations of Europe. 

Nearly the same remarks will apply to China — 
and, with little modification, to Hindostan. In short, 
the hundreds of millions of southern Asia are, for 
the most part, vegetable-eaters ; and a large propor- 
tion of them live chiefly, if not wholly on rice, 



264 VEGETABLE DIET. 

though by no means the most &vorable regetaUe 
for exclusive use. What countries like these have 
maintained their ancieot, moral, intellectual, and 
political landmarks? Grant that they have made 
but little improvement from century to century ; it 
is something not to have deteriorated. Let ns pro- 
ceed with our general view of the world, ancient 
and modern. 

The Jews, of Palestine, two thousand years ago, 
lived chiefly on vegetable food. Flesh, of certain 
kinds, was indeed admissible, by their law ; but, ex- 
cept at their feasts and on special occasions, they 
ate chiefly bread, milk, honey and fruits. 

Lawrence says that ''the Greeks and Romans, in 
the periods of their greatest simplicity, manliness 
and bravery, appear to have lived almost entirely on 
plain vegetable preparations." 
■ The Irish of modern days, as well as the Scotch, 
are confined almost wholly to vegetable food. So 
are the Italians, the Germans, and many other 
nations of modern Europe. Yet, where shall we 
look for finer specimens of bodily health, strength 
and vigor, than in these very countries? The 
females, especially, — where shall we look for their 
equals? The men even, — the Scotch and Irish, 
for example, — are they weaker than their brethren, 
the English, who use more animal food ? 

It will be said, perhaps, the vegetable-eating Eu- 
ropeans are not always distinguished for vigorous 
minds. True; but this, it may be maintained, 
arises from their degraded physical condition, gen- 
erally ; and that neglect of mental and moral cul- 



EXPERIMENTAL ARGUMENT. 266 

tivation which accompanies it. A few, even here, 
like comets in the material system, have occasion- 
ally broken out, and emitted no faint light ii> the 
sphere in which they were destined to move. 

But we are not confined to Europe. The South 
Sea Islanders, in many instances, feed almost 
wholly on vegetable substances ; yet their agility and 
strength are so great, that it is said " the stoutest and 
most expert English sailors, had no chaUce with 
them in wrestling and boxing." 

We come, lastly, to Africa, the greater part of 
whose millions feed on rice, dates, &c. ; yet their 
bodily powers are well known. 

In short, more than half of the 800,000,000 of 
human beings which inhabit our globe live on 
vegetables ; or, if they get meat at all, it is so rarely- 
that it can hardly have any effect on their structure 
or character. Out of Europe and the United States, 
— I might even say, out of the latter — the use of 
animal food is either confined to a few meagre, 
weak, timid nations, like the Esquimaux, the Green- 
landers, the Laplanders, the Samoiedes, the Kamts- 
chadales, the Ostiacs, and the natives of Siberia and 
Terra del Fuego ; or those wealthier classes, or in- 
dividuals of every country, who are able to range 
lawlessly over the Creator's domains, and select, for 
their tables, whatever fancy or fashion, or a capri- 
cious appetite may dictate, or physical power afford 
them. 



23 



266 VEGETABLE DIET. 



VII. THE MORAL ARGUMENT. 

In one point of view, nearly every argument 
which can be brought to show the superiority of a 
vegetable diet over one that includes flesh or fish, is 
a moral argument. 

Thus, if man is so constituted by his structure, 
and by the laws of his animal economy, that all the 
functions of the body, and of course all the facul- 
ties of tlie mind, and the afiections of the soul, are in 
better condition — better subserve our own purposes, 
and the purposes of the great Creator — as well as 
hold out longer, on the vegetable system — then is it 
desirable, in a moral point of view, to adopt it. If 
^nankind lose, upon the average, about two years of 
their Jives by sickness, as some have estimated it, 
saying nothing of the pain and suffering undergone, 
or of the mental anguish and soul torment which 
grow out of it, and often render life a burden; and 
if the simple primitive custom of living on vegeta- 
bles and fruits, along with other good physical and 
mental habits, which seem naturally connected with 
it, will, in time, nearly if not wholly remove or pre- 
vent this amazing loss, then is the argument deduced 
therefrom, in another part of this chapter, a moral 
argument. 

If, as I have endeavored to show, the adoption of 
the vegetable system by nations and individuals, 
would greatly advance the happiness of all, in every 
known respect, and if, on this account, such a change 
in our flesh-eating countries would be sound policy, 






MORAL ARGUMENT. 267 

and good economy, —.-th^n we have another moral 
argument in its favor. 

But, again ; if it be true that all nations have been 
most virtuous and flourishing, other things being 
equal, in the days of their simplicity in regard to 
food, drink, &c. ; and if we can, in every instance, 
connect the dedine of a nation with the period 
of their departure, as a nation, into the maze of 
luxurious and enervathig habits; and if this doc- 
trine is, as a general rule, obviously applicable to 
smaller classes of men, down to single families, then 
is the argument we derive from it, in its nature a 
moral one. Whatever really tends, without the 
possibility of mistake, to the promotion of human 
happiness, here and hereafter, is, without doubt, 
moral. 

But this, though much, is not all. The destruc- 
tion of animals for food, in its details and tendencies, 
involves so much of cruelty as to cause every re- 
flecting individual — not destitute of the ordinary 
sensibilities of our nature — to shudder. I recall: 
daily observation shows that such is not the fact ; 
nor should it, upon second thought, be expected. 
Where all are dark, the color is not perceived ; and 
so universally are the moral sensibilities which really 
belong to human nature deadened by the customs 
which prevail among us, that few, if any, know how 
to estimate, rightly, the evil of which I speak. They 
have no more a correct idea of a true sensibility — 
not a morbid one — on this subject, than a blind 
man has of colors ; and for nearly the same reasons. 
And on this account it is, that I seem to shrink frdm 



268 VEGETABLE DIET. 

presenting, at this time, those considerations which, 1 
know, cannot, from the very nature of the case, be 
properly understood or appreciated, except by a 
very few. 

Still there are some things which, I trust, may be 
made plain. It must be obvious that the custom of 
rendering children familiar with the taking away of 
life, even when it is done with a good degree of 
tenderness, cannot have a Very happy effect. But, 
when this is done, not only without tenderness or 
sympathy, but often with manifestations of great 
pleasure, and when children, as in some cases, are 
almost constant witnesses of such scenes, how 
dreadful must be the results ! 

In this view, the world, I mean our own portion 
of it, sometimes seems to me like one mighty slaugh- 
ter-house — one grand school for the suppression of 
every kind and tender and brotherly feeling — one 
grand process of education to the entire destitution 
of all moral prinpiple — one vast, scene of destruc- 
tion to all moral sensibility, and all sympathy with 
the woes of those around us. Is it not so 7 

I have seen many boys who shuddered, at first, at 
the thought of taking the life, even of a snake, until 
compelled to it by what they conceived to be duty ; 
and who shuddered still more at taking the life of a 
lamb, a calf, a pig, or a fowl. And yet I have seen 
these same boys, in subsequent life, become so 
changed, that they could look on such scenes not 
merely with indifference, but with gratification. Is 
this change of feeling desirable ? How long is it 
after we begin to look with indifference on pain and 



MORAL ARGUMENT. 269 

suffering in brutes, before we begin to be less affected 
than before by human suffering? 

I am not ignorant that sentiments like these are 
either regarded as morbid, and therefore pitiable, or 
as affected, and therefore ridiculous. Who that has 
read the story of Anthony Benezet, as related by Dr. 
Rush, has not smiled at what he must have regarded 
a feeling wholly misplaced, if nothing more? And 
yet it was a feeling which I think is very farj from 
deserving ridicule, however homely the manner of 
expressing it. But I have related this interesting 
story in another part of the work. 

I am not prepared to maintain, strongly, the old' 
fashioned doctrine, that a butcher who commences 
his employment at adult age, is necessarily rendered 
hard-hearted or unfeeling; or, that they who eat 
flesh have their sensibilities deadened, and their 
passions inflamed by it — though I am not sure that 
there is not some truth in it. I only maintain that 
to render children familiar with the taking away of 
animal life, — especially the lives of our own domes- 
tic animals, often endeared to us by many interest- 
ing circumstances of their history, or of our own, 
in relation to them, — cannot be otherwise than un- 
happy in its tendency. 

How shocking it must be to the inhabitants of 
Jupiter, or some other planet, who had never before 
witnessed these sad effects of the ingress of sin 
among us, to see the carcasses of animals, either 
whole or by piece-meal, hoisted upon our very 
tables before the faces of children of all ages, from 
the infant at the breast, to the child of ten or twelve, 
23* 



270 VEGETABLE DIET. 

or fourteen, and carved, and swallowed ; and this 
not merely once, but from day to day, through life ! 
What could they — what would they — expect from 
such an education of the young mind and heart 1 
What, indeed, but mourning, desolation, and wo ! 

On this subject the First Annual Report of the 
American Physiological Society thus remarks — and 
I wish the remark might have its due weight on 
the mind of the reader : — 

"How can it be right to be instrumental in so 
much unnecessary slaughter ? How can it be right, 
especially for a country of vegetable abundance 
like ours, to give daily employment to twenty 
thousand or thirty thousand butchers? How can 
it be right to train our children to behold such 
slaughter ? How can it be right to blunt the edge 
of their moral sensibilities, by placing before them, 
at almost every meal, the mangled corpses of the 
slain ; and not only placing them there, but rejoic- 
ing while we feast upon them? " 

It cannot be otherwise than that the circum- 
stances of which I have spoken, which so universal- 
ly surround infancy and childhood, should take off, 
gradually, the keen edge of moral sensibility, and 
lessen every virtuous or holy sympathy. I have 
watched -^I believe impartially — the effect on cer- 
tain sensitive young persons in the circle of my 
acquaintance. I have watched myself. The result 
has conlirmed the opinion I have just expressed. 
No child, I think, can walk through a common 



MORAL ARGUMENT. 271 

market or slaughter-house without receiving moral 
injury ; nor am I quite sure that any virtuous adult 
caq. 

How have I been struck with the change pro- 
duced in the young mind by that merriment which 
often accompanies the slaughter of an innocent 
fowl, or lamb, or pig ? How can the Christian, with 
the Bible in hand, and the merciful doctrines of its 
pages for his text, 

Teach me to feel another's wo, 

— the beast's not excepted — and yet, having laid 
down that Bible, go at once from the domestic altar 
to make light of the convulsions and exit of a 
poor domestic animal ? 

Is it said, that these remarks apply only to the 
abuse of a thing, which, in its place, is proper ? Is 
it said, that there is no necessity of levity on these 
occasions ? Grant that there is none ; still the result 
is almost inevitable. But therie is, in any event, one 
way of avoiding or rather preventing both the abuse 
and the- occasion for abuse, by ceasing to kill an- 
imals for food; and I venture to predict that the 
evil never will be prevented otherwise. 

The usual apology for hunting and fishing, in all 
their various and often cruel forms, — whereby so 
many of our youth, from the setters of snares for 
birds, and the anglers for trout, to the whalemen, are 
educated to cruelty, and steeled to every virtuous 
and holy sympathy, — is, the necessity of the ani- 
mals whom we pursue for food. I know, indeed^ 



272 VEQETABLE DIET. 

that this is not, ia most cases, the true reason, but it 
is the reason given — it is the substance of the rea- 
son. It serves as an apology. They who make it 
may often be ignorant of the true reason, or they 
or others may wish to conceal it ; and, true to human 
nature, they are ready to give every reason for 
their conduct, but the real and most efficient one. 

It must not, indeed, be concealed that there is one 
more apology usually made for these cruel sports ; 
and made too, in some instances, by good men ; I 
mean, by men whose intentions are in the main pure 
and excellent. These sports are healthy, they tell 
us. They are a relief to mind and body. Perhaps 
no good man, in our own country, has defended 
them with more ingenuity, or with more show of 
reason and good sense, than Dr. Comstock, in his 
recent popular work on Human Physiology. And 
yet, there is scarcely a single advantage which he 
has pointed out, as being derived from the " pleas- 
ures of the chase," that may not be gained in a 
way which savors less of blood. The doctor him- 
self is too much in love with botany, geology, min- 
eralogy, and the various branches of natural history, 
not to know what I mean when I say this. He 
knows full well the excitement, and, on his own 
principles, the consequent relief, of body and mind, 
from their accustomed and often painful round, 
which grows out of clambering over mountains 
and hills, and fording streams, and climbing trees 
and rocks, to need any very broad hints on the sub- 
ject ; to say nothing of the delights of agriculture 
and horticulture. How could he, then, give curren- 



CONCLUSION. . 273 

cy to practices which, to say the least, — and by his 
own concessions, too, — are doubtful in regard to 
their moral tendencies, by inserting his opinions in 
favor of sports for which he himself happens to be 
partial, in a school-book ? Is this worthy of those 
who would educate the youth of our land on the 
principles of the Bible 7 



CONCLUSION. 

But I must conclude this long essay. There is 
one consideration, however, which I am unwilling 
to omit, although, in deciding on the merits of the 
* question before us, it may not have as much weight 
— regarded as a part of the moral argument — on 
every mind as it has on my own. 

Suppose the great Creator were to make a new 
world somewhere in the regions of infinite space, 
and to fit it out in most respects like our own. It is 
to be the place and abode of such minerals, vegeta- 
bles and animals as our own. Instead, however, of 
peopling it gradually, he fills it at once with inhabit- 
ants ; and instead of having the arts and the sci- 
ences in their infancy, he creates every thing in full 
maturity. In a word, he makes a world which 
shall be exactly a copy of our own, with the single 
exception that the 800,000,000 of free agents in it 
shall be supposed to be wholly ignorant in regard to 
the nature of the food assigned them. But the new 
world is created, we will suppose, at sunrise, in 
October. The human inhabitants thereof have 



274 VEGETABLE DIET. 

Stomachs, and soon, that- is, by mid-day or before 
Dight, feel the pangs of hunger. , Now, what will 
they eat ? 

The world being mature, every thing in it is, of 
course, mature. Around, on every hand, are corn- 
fields with their rich treasures ; above, that is, in the 
boughs of the orchards, hang the rich russets, 
pippins, and the various other excellent kinds of the 
apple, with which our own country and other tem- 
perate climates abound. In tropical regions, of 
course, almost every vegetable production is flour- 
ishing at that season, as well as the corn and the 
apple. Or, he has but to look on the surface of the 
earth on which he stands, and there is the potatoe, 
the turnip, the beet, and many other esculent roots j 
to say nothing of the squash, the pumpkin, the mel- 
on, the chesnut, the walnut, the beech-nut, the but- 
ternut, the hazel-nut, &c., — ^ most of which are nour- 
ishing, and more or less wholesome, and are in full 
view. Around him, too, are the animals. I am 
willing even to admit the domestic animal — the 
horse, the ox, the sheep, the dog, the cat, the rabbit, 
the turkey, the goose, the hen, yes, and even the 
pig. ^nd now, I ask again, what will he eat ? He 
is destitute of experience, and he has no example. 
But he has a stomach, and he is hungry : he has 
hands and he has teeth ; the world is all before him, 
and he is the lord of it, at least so far as to use such 
food in it as he pleases. 

Does any one believe that, in these circumstances, 
man would prey upon the animals around him? 
Does any person believe — can he for one moment 



CONCLTISION. . 275 

believe — he would forthwith imbrue his hands in 
blood, whethet that of his own species or of some 
other ? ^ould he pass by the mellow apple, hang- 
ing in richest profusion every where, inviting him 
as it were by its beauties ? Would he pass by the 
fields, with their golden ears ? Would he despise 
the rich products of field and forest, and garden, 
and hasten to seize the axe or the knife, and, ere the 
blood had ceased to flow, or the muscles to quiver, 
give orders to his fair but afirighted companion 
within to prepare the fire, and make ready the grid- 
iron or the spider? Or, without the knowledge 
even* of this, or the patience to wait for the tedious 
pfocess of cooking to be completed, would he eat 
raw the precious morsel ? Does any one believe 
thK? Can any one — I repeat the question — can 
any one believe it?- , 

On the contrary, would not every Hving human 
being revolt, at first, from the idea, let it be suggested 
as it might, of plunging his hands in blood ? Can 
there be a doubt that he would direct his attention* 
at first — yes, and for a long time afterward — to 
the vegetable world for his food? Would it not 
take months and years to reconcile his feeliligs — 
his moral nature — to the thought of flesh-mangling 
or flesh-eating? At least, would not this be the 
result, if he were a disciple of Christianity ? Al- 
though professing Christians, as the world is now 
constituted, do not hesitate to commit such depreda- 
tions, would they do so in the circumstances we 
have supposed ? 

I am sure there can be but one opinion on this 



276 VEGETABLE DIET. 

snbject ; although I confess it impossible for me to 
say how it may strike other minds constituted some- 
what differently from my own. With me, this 
consideration of the subject has weight and im- 
portance. It is not necessary, however. The argu- 
ment — the moral argument I mean, — is sufficient, 
as it seems to me, without it. What then, shall we 
say of the anatomical, the physiological, the medical, 
the political, the economical, the experimental, and 
the moral arguments when united ? Have they not 
force? Are they not a seven-fold cord, not easily 
broken ? Is it not too late in the day of human 
improvement to meet them with no argument but 
ignorance, and with no other weapon but ridicule ? 



( 



