Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



THE MODERN PROCESS 



FOR THE 



PRESERVATION 



OF ALL 



ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES; 



BY WHICH THEY RETAIN 



THEIR NATIVE PURITY AND ESSENTIAL QUALITIES, 



IN ANY CLIMATE AND FOR 8BTBRAL YEARS: 



AND BY MEANS OP WHICH MAY BE SERVED, AT A PEW MINUTES' 
NOTICE, A COMPLETE AND EXQUISITE DINNER. 



BY 

HENDERSON WILLIAM BRAND, 

AUTHOR OF " THE COMPLKTR MODERN COOK ;** 



TBI KrrcnM m an uAjmnr ommam m FOuirrB; chikv cook to t. w. ookb, mi., 

HOUCHAM BAIX; MAKL MAKTBBS, BIS OKACB TMB OUKS UV MOBVOLK, TBB 
MABOOU or AJUA, AMD bOBD BOLU. 



LONDON: 

PUBLIBHBD FOR THE AUTHOR BY 

SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO., STATIONERS^ COURT. 

MDCCCZXXTIII. 
[INTIRID AT STATIONERS* HALL.] 

27. 



3^. 

7 



PROCESS 

FOB 

PRESERVING FRESH PROVISIONS, 



INTRODUCTION. 



In offering to the public the principles of an 
art which has been some years practised, both 
abroad and at home, I have been actuated by a 
wish to see it plainly and fairly brought for- 
ward. With the details originally given *, so 
much of individual concern, and useless boast- 
ing, utterly overgrowing the subject, has been 
interspersed, that many persons, who would 
have gladly made themselves acquainted with 
the valuable part of the information, could 
hardly flatter themselves with the hope, still 
less inflict upon themselves the task, of sifting 
out anything useful from heaps and heaps of 
irrelevant and personal matter. 

By M. Appert. 



• • • 



VIU INTRODUCTION. 

Again, as the subject, in point of age, may 
be deemed still in its infancy, a few years 
have confirmed some of the original notions, 
while time has corrected and added to others. 
Whenever information is to be conveyed, any 
discussions introduced, not absolutely indispen- 
sable for the clear understanding of the subject, 
far from assisting, only serve to distract atten- 
tion, and to hide from view the connecting 
thread which must lead us to a proper know- 
ledge of the subject. I am fully aware that 
doubts and prejudices originally existed, which 
the test of many years has entirely overcome ; 
and that to treat of a system to be newly intro- 
duced, is attended with more difficulty than the 
discussion of an established one. At the same 
time, the endless mingling of testimonials and 
self-gratulation with the explanation of the sub- 



INTRODUCTION. IX 

ject in hand, was surely ill-judged. If all these 
were necessary, neither assuredly could gain by 
being confounded with the others. 

I have avoided introducing extraneous matter, 
confining myself to such plain and simple in- 
structions as it is necessary to follow for the 
attainment of the object to which the book 
relates ; namely, the preservation of alimentary 
substance. 

By many who have written on culinary mat* 
ters, surtaut chez nos cuisiniers vomnSf it has 
been deemed appropriate to hold forth in such 
ambitiously high and hard-sounding words, as 
are but ill suited to jaws rendered somewhat 
fisistidious and shy of exertion by the use of 
those delicately tender and easily eschewed 
mouthfuls, which it is at once the study and 
glory of an officier de bouche to manipulate. 



X INTRODUCTION. 

Good eating and drinking, it must be allowed, 
are very exhilarating occupations ; and the de- 
lightful fumes of exquisitely confectioned viands, 
together with the unequivocal approbation testi- 
fied in the glowing looks and ecstatic onslaught 
of the convives comommateurs^ arouse in the 
gratified artiste an enthusiasm, which not un- 
frequently vents itself in the grotesque pomp 
of technical expression. Long graces, however, 
are not the most acceptable to hungry stomachs ; 
and on the attractions which appetite itself makes 
sufficiently keen, we shall be contented to rely, 
without endeavouring to enhance the merits of 
good cheer by our eloquence. It would be a 
masterpiece of oratory indeed, could we talk a 
well-gorged glutton hungry ; a consummation 
outstripping the arcana of gastronomy itself, 
and only to be surpassed, in our humble esti- 



INTRODUCTION. XI 

mate, by him who could talk the hungry sa- 
tisfied. 

As immediately connected with the subject, 
the author begs to submit, that there are sea- 
sons, situations, and circumstances, in which, 
though we might afford ourselves the enjoy- 
ment of all the variety in which the epicure 
delights, the very nature of things denies us the 
gratificaUon. 

Scientific men, both ancient and modern, have 
devoted their labours and talents to the preser- 
vation of food ; for the accomplishment of which 
object, great public rewards have been offered ; 
those means already known, extending only to a 
limited number of substances, and being also at- 
tended with many inconveniences. 

Dried vegetables lose their juices and flavour, 
and their fibres become hardened. Salt com- 



Xll INTRODUCTiON. 

municates harshness to substances with which it 
is used ; and in meat, destroys the animal fibre, 
while the subsequent soaking in water tends to 
lessen its digestive and nutritive qualities. To 
this we may add, that the habitual use of salt 
provision tends greatly to promote scurvy. 

The modem process of preservation commands 
the productions of all the seasons, at any period of 
the year. 

By this means, we are enabled, at little 
additional expense, to lay in store of all that is 
useful and delicate, without exception, in all its 
native purity and freshness of flavour ; as palat- 
able and as wholesome, after years^ keeping, as 
when recently killed or gathered. 

Thus are procured excellent vegetables of all 
sorts, and juices of herbs, in the depth of win- 
ter; an advantage fully appreciated by the 



INTRODUCTION. XIU 

public hospitals, and of which ships^ companies 
have also joyfully availed themselves. To the 
latter especially, confined as they have been 
time immemorial, at sea, to salt food, the pro- 
cess has opened a source of comfort and enjoy- 
ment, justly prized by those only who have 
known the want of fresh provision during long 
sea voyages. 

The especial object of the present volume is, 
to extend to private families, and to seats remote 
in the country, delicacies not tec be obtained far 
from large towns, without much time, trouble, 
and expense, at certain seasons of the year; 
to place at command, almost at a minute^s notice, 
and at all times, an endless variety of agreeable 
food. On sudden and unexpected occasions, 
the facility with which any demand may be 
supplied, is of itself a sufficient recommenda- 



XIV INTBODUCTION. 

tion. The sportsman, however far his pursuit 
leads him from christian accommodation, provided 
he can find fire and water, is at once supplied 
with the best of food ready to his palate. In a 
word, by this process, we have always in readi- 
ness, and in perfection, food of every descrip- 
tion, without the risk of its being in any way 
" worse for keeping." If this circumstance of 
itself does not appear to combine a host of ad- 
vantages in the eyes of those who give them- 
selves a momentfs reflection, we leave the sub- 
ject, in despair of pointing them out; while, by 
many, we presume that we shall be deemed to 
have enlarged perhaps beyond limits, consider- 
ing the self-evident nature of th^ advantages 
offered. 

It will be seen, that the process itself requires 
no extraordinary pains, no inconvenient appa- 



INTRODUCTION. XV 

t 

ratus, and but little expense of package and 
fuel. Close attention, and strict adherence to 
the directions given, are all that is needful. 
The aliments once prepared for enclosure, re- 
quire no unusual degree of skill or penetration 
in the person who superintends the final pro- 
cess. As we before observed, simply adhere to 
the directions, and success must follow. 

The author begs to state, that in treating this 
subject, he has not presumed to undertake the 
task as a mere theorist, but that he came to it 
backed by his own actual experience, and con- 
firmed in his ideas by long practice and un- 
failing success. 



PROCESS 



FOR 



PRESERVING FRESH PROVISIONS. 



GENERAL OUTLINE. 

To give a general idea of the nature of the 
process which may be useful to the ready un- 
derstanding of its details ; it consists : — 

1st — In enclosing in bottles, jars, or tin cases, 
the substances to be preserved. 

2nd,— -In corking or soldering the different 
vessels hermetically,— a part of the operation on 
which success most materially depends. 

Srd, — In subjecting the substances thus en- 
closed to the action of boiling water ; that is, 
that the close vessels are put into a large vessel 

B 



of water, and tbe water is lieated; dios 
municatiDg its lieat to tlie substances to be pie- 
served, without coming in contact widi dienL. 
Tbi^niode of commonicadng beat is called the 
bain-marie, the Frendi term being generally 
used among cooks, though some designate it as 
the hot-bath, or water-bath. The duration of 
this immersion depends on the nature of the 
articles, and for this proper directions are laid 

down. 

We have tiierefore to consider — 

Ist, — The nature of the packages, botties, or 

cases. 

2nd,— The mode of packing or enclosing. 

3r(j^ — The manner of using the bain-marie. 

4th, — The proper time requisite for various 
articles, the indications for ascertaining the suc- 
cess of the operation, and for detecting any 
minute flaw, in a case, which might have es- 
caped observation. 



CORKS. 3 

OF BOTTLES. 

For the present purpose, the best possible 
form of the necks of bottles is that of an in- 
verted cone, like that of champagne or truffle 
bottles. They are the best in whatever way 
they may be considered, and are easily corked. 
They should be made of tough material, of 
equal substance. The weight should be twenty- 
five to twenty-six ounces to the quart. If they 
are not of equal thickness throughout, they 
break in boiling. The champagne or truffle 
form is readily packed, and offers the greatest 
resistance. 



CORKS. 

Cheap corks are a most improvident economy. 
This is obvious, if we consider that in the event 
of a cork being bad, we have saved a small 
fraction of a farthing, and thrown away, perhaps, 
the contents of a bottle worth shillings. 

B 2 



4 BOTTLING. 

Corks should be about two inches long, of 
the finest cork. The best is from the moun- 
tains of Catalonia ; that from the plains is po- 
rous and defective. The head diameter of corks 
should exceed that of the other end by a fourth 
of an inch ; and they should always be pressed 
in the cork-biting machine used by cellarmen ; 
after this they swell and form a perfect closure 
in the neck of the bottle. Cork should be cho- 
sen, for cold corking, which has been well burnt, 
so as to kill any animalculse that may be in it 



BOTTLING. 



Bottles containing liquid should only be 
filled within three inches of the ring at the neck 
of champagne bottles, and within one inch and a 
half of the wider-necked truffle bottle, on account 
of expansion in boiling. For vegetables, fruits, 
and plants, &c., two*thirds of this suffice. The 

^tling stool is furnished with a bat, or flogger, 



1 



BOTTLING. 5 

a small pot, or leather cup of water^^some use 
spirits,— a sharp knife^ which must be greased 
frequently, to cut off tlie heads of the corks. 
Dip the cork in the water, wipe the end, twist 
the cork into the neck of the bottle ; hold with 
one hand and drive with the other, to three- 
fourths of the length of the cork. It should 
resist further driving if the bottle is well 
stopped. There is no precaution, however 
minute it may appear, which should not be 
attended to in this part of the operation, on 
which the success of all the rest depends. If 
the cork goes all the way in, the probability is 
that it does not fit closely, and the best way is 
to change it It is not by turning a bottle up-, 
side down, but by the resistance to the blow of 
the flogger, that a good bottler knows when a 
bottle is properly corked. If we consider for 
a moment what minute holes pervade some 
corks, and how many defects ma}* be invisible 
to the eye, we shall at once conceive the neces- 



6 BOTTLING, 

sity of using nothing but the best corks ; of 
working them well in the cork-biting machine ; 
and of being satisfied that they are a tight fit» 
Secure them with cross wires, and put each 
bottle in a canvas or rough linen bag, like a 
muffy open at both ends, one of which is drawn 
together by a string running through an open 
seam, leaving an aperture of the size of a crown- 
piece ; two strings at the other end tie the bag 
to the neck of the bottle. The use of hay or 
straw in the bainrmarie is thus superseded, and 
in case of breakage the fragments are secured 
in the bag. When the time of boiling is pro- 
perly attended to, there is no other possible 
cause of failure than imperfect closure, either 
of cases, bottles, or corks. 

Unusually large corks, cut with the pores run- 
ning up instead of across the neck, are less likely 
to answer the intended purpose. The corks should 
be glued one on another; to do which, take 
*^<i;lass melted, with the addition of a little 



TO WIRE BOTTLES. 7^ 

brandy, which forms a solid glue. It is laid on 
the corks, and these are put under a press or 
flat board, with weights on it, and left to dry ; 
afterwards cut and trim them to the requisite size. 
Jars thus stopped should be luted afterwards, 
as will be seen. 



TO WIRE BOTTLES. 

Take a piece of wire eighteen inches long, 
double it in two, twist it about two inches in 
length from the point at which it is doubled, 
viz. the middle ; stretch out the two ends, which 
pass round the neck of the bottle, immediately 
under the rim ; bring them together, and twist 
them on the opposite side, two turns ; turn them 
up oyer the cork, together with the part first 
twisted. These ends must now be well twisted- 
over the top of the cork, so as to make the wire 
tight upon it. Cut them off within half an 
inch, and turn the double twist down on the top 



8 LUTING GLASS JABS. 

of the cork, as one would clinch a nail. Repeat 
this with a second piece of wire, which must 
cross the first on top. 



FOR LUTING GLASS JARS THUS WIRED. 

Slack some quick-lime, by sprinkling it with 
water in the open air ; sprinkle by degrees till 
it falls to dust, which bottle for use. 

This lime, mixed with the soft white cheese 
made from skim-milk, to the thickness of paste, 
produces a luting which hardens quickly^ and 
resists the heat of boiling water. Cover all the 
outside of the cork with this ; round the edge 
of the jars put flax and strips of linen, as well 
as over the top and down to the rim of the 
neck ; place a piece of cork, nearly an inch high, 
and about two and a half across, on the middle 
of that already inserted in the bottle ; and this 
gfives a purchase to the wire. 



TIN CASES.' 



TIN CASES. 

The metal of which tin cases are made, must 
be thoroughly sound, as any. flaw would be fatal 
to the success of the operation. 

New lead must be used for soldering, as in 
the old there are qualities which tend to render 
the soldering imperfect; and a very essential 
POINT is to employ a good tinman; they are very 
frequently careless, and in this instance should 
be made to understand how indispensably neces-* 
sary it is that the boxes be thoroughly and 
effectually closed. The boxes should be sol- 
dered round the rims, but not folded over like 
saucepans, for the hammer frequently causes 
the minute apertures of which I have spoken 
above. The cylinder must fall into the bottom, 
which is turned up nearly a quarter of an inch 
all round; and the solder should penetrate to 
the bottom between the two, so as to make one 
body of the whole. Previous to soldering, let 



10 BAIN-MARIE. 

the parts to be united be rubbed with sal-ammo- 
niac, they will unite more perfectly. 

A round piece, about an inch and a half in 
diameter, is punched out of the top, laying the 
inside uppermost to do so. When the case has 
been filled with solid preparations, such as part- 
ridge, fricandeau, &c., the ring left is fixed on, 
and well soldered round. A tin cap, with a 
pin-hole in the centre, covers the aperture 
punched out. The case being filled up within 
half an inch of the top, the cap first is soldered 
on, and the pin-hole closed. 



OF THE BAIN-MARIE. 

The part which the bain-marie has to perform 
in preserving, is to throw into the vessels con- 
taining substances to be preserved, sufficient 
heat to decompose completely the air enclosed 
witli them. It is not necessary for this that the 
vessels should be under water; they only re- 



BAIN-MARIE. 11 

quire to be in an atmosphere of steam of suffi- 
ciently high temperature. The close or covered 
bain-marie is the best mode of applying heat for 
this purpose. 

Place the jars or bottles upright in a boiler ; 
turn in cold water till it reaches the rim of the 
bottles ; cover them with wet cloths ; put on the 
lid, and put weights on top to prevent any 
escape. Light the fire ; when the copper boils, 
keep up the same degree of heat more or less 
time as directed, and draw the fire ; a quarter 
of an hour after, draw off the water by the tap ; 
half an hour after this, take off the lid, and 
take out the bottles in an hour more; which 
finishes the operation. 

This method, simple as it is, is the result 
of long experience, and experiments out of 
number. 

With the use of an uncovered boiler, in a 
month's time, many of the vessels burst. This 
arises from a want of sufficient heat to decom- 



12 BAIN-MARIE. 

pose the air contained in the packages ; the con- 
sequence is5 fermentation and explosion. 

The following is an experiment made : — 

Upright, in a boiler^ thirty cases were 
placed, containing various substances^ with 
water within an inch or two of the top. 
On these was laid latticed wire-work, on 
which were placed thirty more, which conse- 
quently were not in the water. As these rose 
above the edge of the copper, it was closed 
with a domed cover, fixed down with weights, 
as above. The fire was lighted, the copper 
made to boil, and kept on, slackening the fire 
by degrees. 

No heat could escape. Success was complete. 
All the substances Were Well pr^ervedi 

A light wire frame, like a bottle-basket, made 
to the copper, and with the number of com- 
partments required, is a safeguard against 
breakage from outward accident, when bottles 
are used. 



TIME IN BAIN-MARIE. IS 

Steam therefore suffices. It is not necessary 
for the vessels to be immersed; a fact which 
every-day practice confirms. 

In an open vessel, water does not retain heat 
higher than 212"; a temperature far too low to 
answer the purpose. The top of the water is 
always the hottest 



OF THE TIME WHICH VARIOUS SUBSTANCES 
REQUIRE IN THE BAIN-MARIE. 

The following is the time during which the 
particular substances named should be exposed to 
the heat of steam, from the moment of boiling: — 

Green peas . . . two hours. 
Windsor beans in the skin a full hour. 
Ditto, without ditto . an hour and a half. 

French and haricot beans • ditto. 
Artichokes . . .an hour. 

All fruits and their juices, such as currants, 
raspberries, cherries, black currants, mulberries, 



14 ASCEKTAINING OPERATION. 

apricots, peaches, greengages, plums, pears, 
&c., two minutes^ boiling. Generally, all ani- 
mal and vegetable substances, having previously 
been subjected to the action of fire, require 
only three quarters of an hour's boiling. Where 
more or less time is required, it is specified with 
the article. 



MODE OF ASCERTAINING THE SUCCESS OF 

THE OPERATION. 

At the completion of every operation, care- 
fully examine the jars or bottles, one by one, as 
taken from the boiler. 

Stars and cracks will be found, occasioned by 
heat, or by the tying at the neck, when that is 
weak. Sometimes a little moisture round the 
cork, or spots at the mouth of the vessel, indi- 
cate an escape. These are the principal symp- 
toms of imperfect closure. As soon as these 
defects are discovered, be certain that the arti- 



TIM CASES; 15 

cles would not keep, and put them aside for 
immediate use, so that nothing be lost. A bad 
bottle would cause the first of these symptoms ; 
the second might be caused by a bad cork, bad 
corking, by having overfilled the bottle, or 
having badly tied it 



TIN CASES. 

The cases, properly prepared, are placed in a 
boiler, on a false bottom, with holes throughout 
its surface, and raised about an inch from the 
bottom. When the first layer is complete, 
make a second, a third, in short, as many as the 
boiler will admit of; fill up the boiler with cold 
water, within an eighth of the top. Cover all 
the boxes at the top with two cloths, and close 
the lid down carefully. Put fire under, and let 
it burn up moderately, till boiling takes place ; 
■this must continue three quarters of an hour. 
'Having drawn the fire, let the whole cool two 



16 TIN CASES. 

hours, or from the evening to the next morning, 
if the operation takes place towards night. 
Draw off the water by the cock, and place the 
boxes or cases on a table. 

After being boiled, the cases are generally 
more or less convex or domed at top and bot- 
tom, according to the degree of heat which 
they contain when taken out ; as they cool they 
fall in, and become concave or hollowed inwards. 
All those which become concave, have been pro- 
perly acted on, and the substances are well 
preserved. Those, on the contrary, which re- 
main convex after being cool, indicate some 
defect in the make or closing of the box. Put 
these aside, to inspect them two ot three days 
after. 

If the tinman has put too large a cover, the 
box remains convex, which you will readily 
discover by pressing on it. With the hand or 
a mallet force in the lid and bottom, and if either 
oppose resistance, open the box to take out the 



TIN CASES. 17 

contents, which put in another box with all 
necessary precaution. 

Sometimes air is contained in a bone or vege- 
table insufficiently done. Touch the pin-hole 
with the soldering iron, and you will let out the 
air; immediately close the same; then an extra 
half-hour^s boiling mostly has the desired effect. 

Having examined all the boxes, and seen 
that they are sound or unsound, they are gene- 
rally painted in oil eight or ten days after boil- 
ing, and registered by numbers, with the date 
of making, contents, and storing. The painting 
preserves them from rust, if to be kept long. 

It is necessary to visit the stores from time to 
time, to discover any signs of defect which might 
not previously have shown themselves. A month 
or two, and even more, after the application of 
the bain-marie, defects become manifest. Put 
aside all convex or round-headed boxes, to be 
satisfied of the condition of the contents; open 

c 



18 TIN CASES. 

them to substitute other contents, or for use if 
the contents are good. 

As the nature of the process leaves no oppor- 
tunity of verifying the goodness of the articles^ 
they are to be guaranteed, but with certain re- 
strictions, to guard against abuse. This applies 
to manufacturers for sale. 

1st, — Cases which are convex at top and 
bottom are reputed bad ; they are therefore not 
to be opened, but brought back as delivered. 

2nd, — Exchanges to be made only for cases 
brought back ; no allowance for any said to be 
thrown away. 

3rd, — All packages intended for long voyages 
by sea, should be under charge of some person 
who should be careful in seeing that they are 
not roughly used, knocked about, or placed in 
the damp. This is the more to be attended to, 
as a blow, especially, causing the smallest aper- 
ture, infallibly occasions the contents of a box 



REMARKS. 19 

to be spoiled. This of course must be guarded 
against where the packages are of glass. 

If cases bear evidence of ill-usage when 
brought back, no exchange ought to be made. 



REMARKS. 

It is requisite to state, that as the method of 
preparing various food for the table is beyond 
my subject, I have limited myself to the de- 
scription of such as are indispensable for the 
preservation of articles which require particular 
preparation or care. 

As it might be imagined that the same means 
are not applicable to complicated objects which 
are used for simple ones, I have made some 
remarks calculated to rabe all doubts of this 
nature. Subjoined are a few observations which 
will point out the full scope of the method. 

A compound SpaniA Mauce, a velouti^ may be 
preserved as well as poor nuxrCs sauce. Fillets 

c 2 



20 REMARKS. 

of soles, with jelly ; fillets of pheasant^ tru£9ed, 
may be preserved as well as cutlets or hashed 
bouilli. All the aromatic principle of flowers 
is preserved, as well as inodorous plants, in all 
their natural freshness ; in fine, the apricot, the 
peach, the raspberry, lose nothing of their 
flavour. 

With few exceptions^ you may preserve in 
tin boxes all kinds of alimentary substances* 
Of the small number which do not admit of 
this, are, small Windsor beans, which in bottle 
are whiter and handsomer ; red fruits, which in 
the box become violet. Apricots, mirabelle 
plums, pine, and generally aU yellow fruit, and 
fruit having pips, are better in bottles. 

The use of glass vessels for domestic pur- 
poses will always be most convenient* On a 
large scale they are of course out of the question. 

It is scarcely necessary to recommend expe- 
dition and cleanliness in operating on any arti- 
cles of food. 



POT-AU-FEU. 21 



Description of the process, with its special and 
particular application to each of the sttbstances 
to be preserved, 

POT-AU-FEU. (Beef Soup.) 

Prepare ordinary beef-soup. The meat 
being three-fourths done, take out half of it, 
previously boned for preservation. The soup 
being done, strain it ; let it cool, bottle it, cork, 
tie, and put each bottle in its bag. The boned 
beef is put in glass jars or cases, which are filled 
up with soup. The jars are stopped, luted, 
tied, and put in bags. Place them upright, 
together with the bottles containing soup, in 
the boiler. Fill this up with cold water to the 
rim of the bottles ; put on the lid, surrounding 
this with wet cloths to stop all issue of steam as 
much as possible, and light the fire. Let it 
boil, and keep up the same heat about three 
quarters of an hour ; after which take the fire 



22 CONSOMME. 

out. Half an hour after draw off the water 
from the boiler, the cover of which remove half 
au hour after this ; an hour or two later^ in fact 
the time is immaterial, take out the bottles, jars, 
or cases; then put a coat of rosin over the 
corks. 



CONSOMME, OR QRAVY SOUP. 

As evaporation is always prejudicial to the 
article condensed, prepare a gravy soup with 
two pounds of meat and poultry to the quart. 
The soup made and cooled, bottle, cork, tie, 
bag, and put it in the boiler. The best pieces 
of meat and fowl, taken out when a fourth-part 
done, are put in cases when cold, and filled up 
with gravy soup, and vegetables suitably cut. 
Having treated these as you did the bottles, put 
all of them in the boiler, which fill with cold 
water to the rim of the bottles; put on the lid, 
round which wet cloths, and light the fire. 



RICE SOUP. 2S 

When boiling, keep up the same heat two 
hours, and finish as the last operation. 



CHICKEN, BEEF, AND VEAL JELLY. 

Prepare and preserve in the same way, for 
Weak stomachs, which refuse those aliments 
generally used at sea, a jelly made from seven 
pounds to the quart A dessert spoonful of the 
jelly to three ounces of boiling water, and a 
little salt, makes a good soup. It is equally 
good spread on bread, as taken from the bottle. 



RICE SOUP. 

Having cleaned and prepared the rice, half- 
boil it in good broth; put with it jelly, 
prepared as the preceding; and when well 
boiled and reduced to a paste sufficiently liquid, 
yet cool, to be put in bottles, proceed as before, 
boiling a quarter of an hour. 



24 BROTH FROM ROOTS. 



JULIENNE. 

With carrots, leeks, turnips, celery, sorrel, 
French beans, green peas, &c., prepare a Ju- 
lienne, putting the pieces, all ready cut up, in a 
stew-pan, with a small piece of fresh butter. 
Half-stew those vegetables first put in, then add 
the sorrel and green peas; the whole done and 
reduced, moisten with good gravy-soup from 
meat and fowl ; let the whole boil half an hour ; 
take it off and let it cool; proceed as before, 
and boil half an hour in the bain-marie. 

For julienne maigre, instead of consomme^ 
when the vegetables are well done, use a light 
pur^e, either of white beans, lentils, or large 
green peas ; boil half an hour in the bain-marie. 



BROTH FROM ROOTS. 

This is prepared in the usual way. When 
cool, bottle it, and keep it half an hour boiling 
in the bain-marie. 



BROTH FROM ROOTS. 25 

These will suflSce to show tliat any soups or 
broths may be subjected with success to the 
same process. 

It may be observed, that to avoid multiplying 
packages, as well as increasing trouble, it is 
easy to prepare extracts only. With half or 
two-thirds water added afterwards, there will be 
soup for three or four persons in a pint. 

So with green peas, lettuce, emincey small 
herbs, &c. 

Maigre soups, all sorts of purees, either of 
vegetables, game, or fish, may be prepared in 
extracts in the same way. 

Thus with twenty bottles of extract, may be 
served at a minute'^s notice, soup for one hun- 
dred and fifty men, and soup unquestionably 
more economical than that which is prepared in 
the usual way, as it may be wanted. 



26 GENERAL SAUCES. 



STOMACHIC BROTH OR JELLY. 

Prepare this with lights and calves' feet, red 
cabbage, carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, a suffi- 
cient quantity of each. A quarter of an hour 
before taking the jelly from the fire, add sugar- 
candy and Senegal gum. When done, strain it 
through a silk sieve ; immediately clarify it with 
white of egg, and again pass it through a nap- 
kin. When cool bottle, cork, tie, bag, and boil 
half an hour in the bain-marie. 



TURTLE SOUP, MOCK TURTLE, OX-TAIL, 
AND OX-CHEEK. 



An hour^s boiling. 



GENERAL SAUCES. 



General sauces, such as blond of veal jelly, 
gpravy, essence of game, of vegetables, demi- 
glaze of veal and roots, great Spanish, velout^. 



FILLET OF BEEF, ETC. 27 

brown and white roux, worked velout^ and 
Spanish, Roman sauces, dressed farces, and be- 
chamel, notwithstanding the cream used in it, 
are preserved by the same method. 



FILLET OF BEEF, MUTTON, POULTRY, AND 

PARTRIDGES. 

These are all prepared as for ordinary use, 
and are three-fourths done, as well as the roast 
partridges. Put them in suitable cases when 
cool; complete the preliminary process with 
these, and boil them half an hour in the bain- 
marie. 

To these operations may be added, fricas^e of 
fowl without the liaison, mateiotte of eels, carp, 
pike, with veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, onions, 
butter, and anchovies, with white wine. 

Prepare a white bash of poultry, of fresh 
pork, with mushrooms, truffles, bacon hi, and 
butter ; and having added the necessary season- 



28 LARGE PIECES* 

ing, three-fourtbs dress them, and case when 
cold; after which, boil them a quarter of an 
hour in the bain-marie. 



GARNISHES. 



Garnishes of carrots, turnips turned and pre- 
pared in any way, artichokes, cucumbers, button 
onions, fine herbs, &c. Veal sweetbreads, cock's 
combs and stones, carp soft roe^ cray-fish tails, 
&c., may be preserved likewise. 



LARGE PIECES. 

Pieces of beef of two and three pounds ; fish, 
poultry, and partridges whole ; but tliis is not 
the most economical way, both from the large 
mouth of the vessels, and increased difficulty in 
effective stopping, and from the inutility of pre- 
serving the bones, which take up much room« 
Cases make this operation more easy. When 



LASOE PIKCES. 29 

the first stock has been drawn off, fill up the 
kettles, boil two hours, draw off, and reduce 
it down to one half. When the meat is cut in 
dice, this, with the vegetables and soup re- 
duced, will keep long, and serve ordinary pur- 
poses. 

Beef. — Palates, tongues, rounds, steaks, short 
ribs, &c. 

VedL — Sweetbreads, kidneys, livers, frican- 
deaux, scallops sautes, blanquettes, &c. 

Mutton, — Tongues braised, ^minc^s carbon- 
nades, hash, cutlets, kidneys, tails, &c. 

Lamb. — Cutlets saut&, blanquettes, prepara- 
tion of croquettes, &c. 

Pork. — Puddings black and white, sausages, 
feet truffled, small fillets, kidney, &c. 

Wild Boar. — Fillets larded, remnants of head, 
&c. 

Roebuck. — Fillets larded, cutlets saut^4 and 
braised, &c« 

Hareandleveret. -^Fillets sautes, civet, soup, &c« 



30 LARGE PIECES. 

Young rabhiU — Preparation of croquettes, fiU 
lets sautes with mushrooms^ hash, &c. 

Pheasant — Fillets saut& with truffles, &c. 
Partridge. — Fillets sautes, salmis, hash^ pu'^ 
r^e, &c. 

Quails. — Fillets sautes, preparation, &c. 
Woodcock. — Ditto ditto, salmis, pur^e, &c. 
TeaL — Ditto ditto, &c. 

Larks and wheatears. — After a turn on the 
spit, or sautes aux fines herbes. 

Larks. — For a croustade with fines herbes, or 
cutlets, on the spit, &c. 
Ihtck. — ^Aiguillettes saut^es, &c. 
Turkey. — Eminces white, blanquettes, hash, 
preparation of quenelle, croquette, &c. 

Fowls. — Fillets au supreme, larded, pur^e, 
&c. 

Goose. — Aiguillettes, &c. 
P^6on.— Cutlets saut^, roasted, &c. 
Sturgeon^ turbot, cod. — Boned, and prepared 
as required. 



LAB6E PIECES. 31 

Salman,'^ Slices half-broiled, or au bleu, three- 
parts done, to be prepared as required^ &c. 

Trout. — Au bleu, fillets sautes. 

Soks. — Fillets sautes, fillets en aspic, fillets 
prepared for salad. 

Whitings. — Boiled, &c. 

Mackerel. — A la maltre d'hptel, &c. 

Pike. — Au bleu, i Tallemande, fillets sautes, 
&c. 

Matelotte d la Mariniire-'Ot pike, eel, carp, 
tench. 

EeL — A la tartare, k la poulette. 

CczTp.-^Quenelle and k Tallemande, &c. 

Oysters. — Prepared for patties or scollops, and 
«l la poulette, &c. 

Cre^lfish. — Prepared in the ordinary way. 

These, and other articles, only require to be 
half or three-fourths done, before being placed 
in the bain-marie* All animal productions should 
be three-fourths done in preparation, and be 
finished in the bainrmarie. 



S2 NEW-LAID EGGS. 

Many substances may, without detriment, be 
boiled an extra hour in the bain-marie ; such as 
consomme, jellies, essences of meat, of poultry ; 
juices of plants, juice and syrup of grape, &c. ; 
but there are others, which a quarter of an hour, 
or even a minute too much, greatly deteriorates. 



NEW-LAID EGGS. 



The fresher the egg, the more it resists the 
operation of the bain-marie. Eggs fresh-laid 
were put in a jar, the space between them being 
filled up with bread-raspings. They were stop- 
ped as usual, and placed in a boiler, and heated 
to 200 degrees. The whole was taken off the 
fire; when sufficiently cooled for the hand to 
bear the heat, they were taken out, and kept 
six months. For use, they were put on the fire 
in cold water, and heated to 200 degrees ; the 
eggs were just done to point, and ad fresh as 
pared. As for hard eggs a la tripe, or 



MILK. S3 

-with white sauce, heat them to boiling point in 
the hainrmarie ; that is, at the first boiling, and 
take off the boiler. 



MILK. 

Twenty-four pints of new millc from the cow 
were reduced by the bain-marie (in the same 
way as glue is heated) to two-thirds of its bulk, 
skimming it frequently; it was then strained. 
When cold, the film was removed from the top, 
and the milk enclosed in the usual way. It was 
immediately boiled two hours in the hainrmarie. 
At the end of some months, the cream separated 
from the milk in flakes, and swam in the bottles. 

A second time, a like quantity of milk was 
reduced in the bain-marie one-half, instead of a 
third. When reduced, eight fresh yolks of e\^gj 
diluted with this milk, were added. The whole 
well mixed was put half an hour on the fire, and 
finished as at first. This method succeeded per- 



34 MILK. 

fectly. Eighteen months after, it was quite 
fresh. The first kept upwards of two years. 
The cream in flakes disappears, when it is 
placed over the fire; both bear boiling, and 
from both was obtained butter. When ana- 
lysed, it was found that the last — very superior 
to ordinary milk— « might be used for cream 
itself. 

Several tin boxes were made, of .the form of 
ordinary bottles, and with the same sort of 
mouth. They were filled with milk, warm from 
the cow: being well stopped and tied, they 
were put in the bain-^marie till it boiled* An 
hour after, they were taken out, and the next 
day sent a forty-eight hours^ journey. The ex* 
periment answered perfectly well. Since, milk 
has been sent longer distances, where it seemed 
as new as if it had been taken from the cow the 
night before.. 

The application of this principle, on a large 
scale, would afibrd great advantages, as it would 



MILK. 35 

present the means of manufacturing fresh butter 
in large towns. The quality would be decidedly 
better, and the price lower ; for there would be 
no such loss of cream as frequently occurs* 

Observation. — Simply putting it over the fire, 
a sand^beat, or the bain-mariey are three ways 
to reduce milk, previous to preserving it; and 
each has more or less the inconvenience of al- 
tering the whiteness of the milk, and of giving 
it a pasty flavour. By steam, the milk was 
whiter, contracted no flavour, and was reduced 
considerably more. Evaporation takes place by 
this means much more rapidly than by any other, 
as the fire may be forced without fear; and the 
more the object operated on is stirred, the better, 
and no skimming is requisite^ 

This, therefore, is the best way, not only for 

milk and cream, but for guimauve Bnd jujube 

pastes, and other substances usually made to 

evaporate slowly over the fire. 

d2 



36 BOILING MILK. 



PAN FOR BOILING MILK. 

A pan, holding the milk, is fitted to a boiler; 
and a pipe, leading from the boiler into a little 
reservoir of cold water, regulates the steam. The 
milk must first be strained, and be constantly 
and briskly stirred. It will be found that the 
noise in the pipe increases when the stirring is 
discontinued, which shows that the heat is not 
finding its way so rapidly through the milk. 

As soon as the water boils, slacken the fire, 
and close the furnace-door, to keep up a mode- 
rate boiling heat. If this is not done, the luting 
which closes the union of the pan and boiler 
would give way, and steam would escape. When 
the water in the reservoir is warm, change it 
In two hours you may thus reduce twenty-four 
pints of- milk to twelve. It is not necessary, 
however, that the milk should be reduced one- 
half — a little more or less is of no consequence. 
About a quarter of an hour before finishing, di- 



CREAM. 87 

lute twelve yolks of new-laid eggs with a pint of 
the milk, which gradually stir in with the whole. 
To be certain of the reduction, take the depth of 
the milk at first, and bring it to half of that 
Take the milk out when done^ strain it, to get 
away the interior of the yolks of the. eggs, and 
put it in tureens to cool*-stirring, that no film 
may be formed ; then bottle it, cork and tie, 
and boil a quarter of an hour. 



CREAM. 

Reduce five quarts of cream, skimmed care- 
fully from milk of the over-night, to four, with- 
out skimming; remove the skin or fiilm from the 
top, strain it, and let it cooL Taking off the 
second skin, bottle it in the usual way, and boil 
it a quarter of an hour in the bainr^narie. Two 
years after, cream has been found as fresh as 
when newly boiled, and good fresh butter was 
made fr^m it 



88 WHEY. 



WHEY. 

Prepare some whey, clarified; let it cool, 
bottle, and let it boil a quarter of an hour in the 
bain-marie : the heat always throws off caseous 
particles in whey, however well it may be clari- 
fied. It has been kept some two and three 
years in this manner, filtering it for use to have 
it very clear. If you are in a hurry, carefully 
decanting suffices. 



FRESH BUTTER. 

Wash six pounds of fresh butter, newly made, 
and take away the moisture with a napkin: 
case it. In filling in, leave a tenth for expa&- 
sion* Heat tihem in the bain-marie merely till 
boiling takes placC) and take them out as soon as 
you can bear your hand in the water. 

The melting of the butter precipitates to 
the bottom any caseous particles or butterHtttilk 



FRESH BUTTER. 89 

which might remain ; so that butter is obtained 
perfectly pure and clarified, which should al- 
ways be the case with butter^ to be delicate and 
good. 

With a wooden spatula, rather curved at the 
end, the butter is taken out in small portions. 
Put it in cold water, in pats, having washed it 
and worked it till the last water is quite dear. 

It will give the original weight — that is, five 
pounds thirteen ounces of butter, and three 
ounces of butter-milk : this residue has rather a 
rank bitter taste. As a little butter adheres to 
the sides of the cases, put them in hot water to 
ebtaiait 

The loss of half an ounce to the pound of 
butter will always depend on the greater or less 
attention with which it is washed, when it comes 
out of the churn. This is a valuable method for 
pasture countries, especially those where they 
are obliged to melt the butter, which will not 
keep long in consequence, and must be sold 
cheap. 



40 FRESH BUTTER. 

All fat and oily substances may be preserved 

in the same way : all such as have been hitherto 

subject to become rancid in a certain period of 

time. HogVlard^ melted and well boiled ; goose 

or capon grease, or kitchen-fat of any kind, well 
clarified. 



ANOTHER MODE OF PRESERVING BUTTER. . 

To precipitate with greater facility the case- 
ous or cheesy particles formed in butter, use a 
cleanser, in the shape of an inverted cone, with 
a cock at the lower end. By steam, set the 
butter more or less in fusion ; and when the he- 
terogeneous parts are well precipitated, open the 
cock, draw off the milk, and when it is entirely 
out, put the butter in bottles or cases. In this 
way — only raising the heat to 160^ in the bain-- 
marie — ^you obtain butter perfectly clarified, and 
without sediment. 

To get it out of the bottles or cases, merely 



i 



GREEN PEAS. 41 

put them in the bain-maries after having opened 
them. When the butter is melted, pour it into 
a vessel for use. 



OF GATHERING VEGETABLES. 

Climates make a difference, of course; but 
the months of June and July are the best season 
for preserving green peas, Windsor beans, and 
asparagus. Later, these vegetables lose a great 
deal by beat and drought In August and Sep- 
tember, preserve artichokes, French and white 
beans, and cauliflowers. Generally, all vege- 
tables for preservation should be fresh-gathered, 
and prepared with expedition, so that from the 
garden to the iatn-mam there is no delay. 



GREEN PEAS. 



Take peas, not very young, but middle-sized; 
they are better formed, and more full of flavour. 



42 GAEEN PSAS. 

Shell them as soon as gathered; sepan^ the 
larger ; bottle or caee directly, shaking the bot- 
tles that they may contain as many as possible. 
Cork them down, &c., and boil them in the bain- 
marie an hour and a half, when the season is 
rather cool and damp, and two honrs when there 
is heat and drought: finish dus operation as 
those before. 

Green peas, of all substances, are the most 
di£Bcult lo preserve. If gathered too young, 
they run, and die bottle will be but half filled 
after boiling, and what there is will not keep : 
of these immediate use must be made. In warm 
weather, peas lose all their flarour by being 
gathered two or three days beforehand. They 
harden, and begin to ferment: this causes bot- 
tles to burst in the bain-marie. Even those 
which resist, break subsequently, or are defec- 
tive, which is easily discovered by the turbid 
state of the juice in the bottle : it is never thick 
«.k-.« ♦^e preservation is properly openated. It 



GREEN PEAS. 48 

is &r better to preserve peas rather ripe, than 
too young. The latter hare no shape, prodnce 
a great deal of vegetable liquid, and leave 
scarcely anything but skins. They are espe- 
cially liable to fermentation. Moderately ripe, 
they answer this purpose well. 

Ten to fifteen per cent, is the average of 
breakage and failure with very young peas. 



ANOTHER WAY TO PREPARE GREEN PEAS. 

Having prepared twelve quarts of peas, fresh- 
ly gathered, wash them, and work them with a 
pound and a half of fresh butter; drain, and 
place them over the fire. Put on a concave or 
hollow cover, and dress the peas without mois- 
ture, tossing them from time to time, and filling 
with cold water the hollow of the cover : as this 
becomes warm, change it. Dress the peas as if 
to serve them ; finish them with a piece of but- 
ter worked with a little flour. Then put them 



44 ASPARAGUS. 

into small cases^ containing a pound and a half. 
Close in the usual way, and boil them fifty-five 
minutes, or an hour, in the bain-marie. 



PEAS, THE ENGLISH WAY. 

Boil them : when done, season with salt, and 
two or three ounces of fresh butter for every 
quart of peas; toss them, and when cool, put 
them in cases; which boil an hour about, in 
the bain-marie. Bottles may be used for this 
method. 

Large peas, with bacon or other meats, may 
thus be safely preserved. For use, it suffices to 
warm them in the bain-marie. If it suit the 
consumer's palate, a little sugar may be added. 
This method is particularly recommended. 



ASPARAGUS. 

Prepare asparagus as usual. Before you bot- 
tle or case them, plunge them in boiling water. 



ASPARAGUS. 45 

and then in cold, to take off tlie harsh flavour 
peculiar to this vegetable. Entire asparagus are 
carefully arranged in the cases, head downwards. 
Asparagus peas are put in bottles. Having well 
drained both, stop them, &c., and put them in 
^e bain-marie merely to boil up once, 8cc. 



ANOTHER WAY. 

Clean them; dip them in hot, then in cold 
water; then put them in cases, and cover them 
with veal and poultry jelly, and subject them to 
160 degrees of heat in the bain-marie. In the 
first way, the asparagus is very difficult to be 
cased ; it wrinkles, and does not look well. In 
the second, being surrounded with jelly, it keeps 

firm and full. 

Prepare asparagus peas as is usual in the sea-^ 
son; then bottle or case them, giving them just 
a boil in the bain-marie. 



46 SMALL WINDSOR BEANS. 



SMALL WINDSOR BEANS. 

Put these in bottle as you shell them, because 
the air browns the skins of them; and have 
them gathered young, of the size of the end of 
the little finger, to preserve them in the skin. 
When the bottles have been shaken, and are 
filled, add a small bunch of sweet savory. Cork 
them down quickly, and boil them an hour in 
the bain-marie. When gathered, prepared, and 
dressed quickly, this vegetable is of a greenish 
white colour; otherwise, it becomes brown and 
hardened. 

Put the bottles, when filled, into cold spring 
water, fresh from the well : they may be left in 
this way an hour. Stop them, and finish as 
usual. By this means you ensure a good colour. 

This simple method will preserve the colour 
of many other substances : certain flowers, for 
instance ; to the colour of which, the medical 
art ascribes many virtues. 



WHITE BEAMS. 47 



WINDSOR BEANS WITHOUT THE SKINS. 

These may be used larger. Skin them, and 
bottle them, with a small bunch of sweet savory^ 
&c., and give them an hour and a half in the 
bain-marie. 



FRENCH BEANS. 

Take them quite fresh gathered; prepare 
them, and bottle, shaking to fill up the inter- 
stices. Give them an hour and a half's boiling 
in the bain-marie. When the beans are rather 
large, cut them down the middle; then they 
only require an hour*s boiling. 



WHITE BEANS. 

Gather these when the husk begins to turn 
yellow. Shell, and bottle, &c. Boil two hours 
in the bain-marie^ &c. 



48 ABTICHOKE8. 



ENTIRE ARTICHOKES. 

Take the middle-sized ones ; cut off all the 
useless leaves, trim, then plunge them in boil- 
ing water^ and immediately after in cold. Drain 
them; put them in cases; boil an hour and a 
half in the bain-mariej &c. 



ARTICHOKES IN QUARTERS. 

Cut some fine artichokes up in eight pieces ; 
take out the choke, and leave as few leaves as 
possible. Plunge them in boiling water, then 
in cold ; drain ; pass them over the fire, with a 
piece of fresh butter, seasoned with Jines herbes. 
When half done, put them to cool. Then put 
them in bottles or cases, to be boiled half an 
hour, &c. 



CAULIFLOWERS. 49 



ARTICHOKES A LA BARIGOULE. 

Prepare them in the ordinary way; only half 
dress them ; case them, and give them half an 
hour's boiling in the bain-marie. 



CAULIFLOWERS. 

Prepare them; plunge them in hot, then in 
cold water; drain; put them in cases, which 
stop, &c. Boil half an hour in the bain-marie. 

Remarks. — Let it not be forgotten^ that in damp 
cold summers, vegetables are more tender, there- 
fore will require less boiling: seven or eight 
minutes less, and so much more in very dry hot 
seasons. 



ANOTHER WAY. 



Half dress them, with a little salt, and a good 
piece of fresh butter. Let them cool; put them 

E 



60 SORREL. 

in cases, and cover them with their own juice. 
Just a boil in the bain-marie is sufficient; and 
this way they are much better. 



SORREL. 

In a well tinned copper vessel, put sorrel, let- 
tuce, chervil, green onions ; all fresh pulled, well 
cleaned, and chopped. They must not be dried 
up and burnt, but nicely reduced, as for ordi- 
nary use. When done, they are set to cool in 
earthenware. Put them in wide-mouthed bot- 
tles. In the bain-marie boil sorrel a quarter of 
an. hour, which would preserve it ten years, if 
requisite. It would be brought back from the 
Indies as fresh and savoury as if dressed the day 
before; an advantage of high utility to naval or 
military people. June is the month for prepar- 
ing sorrel : later, it contracts a crude acidity, 
very unpleasant; while it possesses in June all 
its best virtues; and you may then procure 



3PINACH AND ENDIVE. 51 

herbs, the addition of which softens and im- 
proves it, and which it would be difficult to 
obtain in October. 



SPINACH AND ENDIVE 

Are prepared as for daily use. Bottle them, 
and boil three quarters of an hour in the baiu" 
marie. 

Carrots, cabbages, turnips, parsnips, onions, 
celery, Spanish cardoons, beet-root, and gene- 
rally all sorts of vegetables, are preserved in the 
same way: whether merely blanched, or pre- 
pared au gras or au matgre^ to be used when 
opened. In the former case, blanch, and half 
dress them, with a little salt; then bottle or 
case them, &c. In the bain-marie boil carrots, 
greens, turnips, parsnips, beet-root, an hour. 
In the second case, prepare the vegetables au 
gra$ or au matgre^ as for ordinary use. When 
three-fourths done, and well prepared and sea- 

e2 



52 T0MATA8, OR LOVE-APin^ES. 

sonedy tak€ tbem off, and let them eool. Bottle^ 
&c. ; boil a quarter of an hour in the bain- 
marie^ &c. 



TOMAlfAS, OR LOVEpAPPLES. 

Gather them, quite jipe, and of good cokmr. 
Wash and drain them, cut diem in pieceB, and 
let them boil down in a tinned copper vesseli 
reducing them one-third. Pass them through a 
fine sieve ; put the strained pulp over the fire^ 
and reduce it one-half. Let it cool in earthen*- 
ware ; bottle^ and give it just a boil in the bain^ 
marie. 



SECOND METHOD FOR TOMATAS. 

Gather them as above, very ripe, and expose 
them seven or eight days to a warm sun, to 
bring them to perfect maturity. Take the high- 
est coloured, and softest; put them in pieces on 



TOMATASy OR tOTB-APPLES. 53 

sieves to drain, having previously washed them. 
The next mornings boil them down ; after they 
have boiled briskly two or three times, drain 
them on a thin cloth stretched over a basket. 
Four hours after, pass them through the sieve, 
and put the pulp over the fire ; let it boil briskly, 
stirring, lest it stick. Then put it to drain on 
fine sieves till the next morning; it then nearly 
loses all the vegetable fluid. To complete this 
exhaustion, put it on the fire again, boil it, stir- 
ring attentively, and drain it again. The next 
morning it is like a paste ; bottle it, &c., and 
let 'it just fairly boil in the bain-marie — this 
suffices. This is more trouble, it is true ; but 
fewer padcages are required, and in colour and 
quality it far exceeds the foregoing. 



64 COCHLEARIA, ETC. 



Anti-scorbutic Plants, and generally all Herbs and 
Juices of Herbs used for medicinal Purposes. 



HORSE-RADISH. 



Clean well, scrape, and bottle ; shake it down 
in the bottles, and stop them, &c. Boil half an 
hour in the bain-marie. 



COCHLEARIA, PEPPERMINT IN FULL FLOWER, 

CRESSES, TARRAGON, ELDER FLOWERS, &c. 

ALL IN BRANCHES. 

Fill several bottles with each of these plants, 
as fresh as possible ; press them a little in the 
bottles with a small stick : stop well, and merely 
give them a boil up. 

Let it be observed, that the more volatile the 
aroma or essence of any plant is, the greater the 
loss, even in luke-warm water ; the more so, of 



ORANGE FLOWERS. 55 

course, when the heat is higher, and when the 
plant remains long in it 

The ordinary methods of distillation, not- 
withstanding that they are close, alter and 
deteriorate considerably the nature of aromatic 
extracts. 



TO PRESERVE ORANGE FLOWERS IN ALL THEIR 

NATURAL WHITENESS AND PERFUME ; 

ALSO THE BUDS. 

Procure flowers recently gathered, and which 
have not been sprinkled, like those for sale in 
the markets. From the pistil separate the white 
petals, which are put, as you proceed, into bot- 
tles. When one is filled, put it in water that is 
quite cold, lightly corking it, so that the water 
may not penetrate. Having prepared all the 
bottles in this way, after corking, tying, 8ic, as 
usual, put them in a covered bain-marie till it 
boils. Draw the fire in a quarter of an hour ; 



66 , JUICE OF HERBS. 

after which) uncover the bairirmariej and half an 
hour later take out the bottles. Proceed in the 
same way with the buds, which put in the same 
bain-marie with the petals. 

The pistils are put in quart bottles, with the 
faded leaves. Cork them well^ &c., and boil 
them a quarter of an hour in the bain-marie. 

As these bottles are light, they are kept up- 
right by means of wirework, or in any way better 
that may answer. 

Thus orange flowers are preserved, as in the 
season ; and the buds may be used in nosegays. 



JUICE OF HERBS. 



Preserve the juice of plants — ^such as lettuce, 
chervil, borage, wild endive, cresses, &c. * Pre- 
pare them in the usual way, and just boil them 
in the bain-marie. 



FRUITS AND JUICES. 57 



OP FRUITS AND THEIR JUICES. 

Fruits and fruit-jaices require the §preatest 
expedition in preparation, especially in the ap- 
plication of the bain-marie. 

You must not wait till fruit becomes too ripe 
to preserve it entire or in quarters, because it 
runs in. the bain-marie. You must not take the 
first of the season, nor the last. The best qua- 
lity and flavour are in the full season — the time 
when the greatest quantity is ripe at once. 

Fruit, whole or in pieces, runs or melts in the 
bain-marie, collapses, and leaves spaces; and 
again, the bottle is half empty. To obviate this 
for red fruits — such as currants, raspberries, cher- 
ries, &a for the sake of precision and economy in 
preparing, choose inferior sorts of the fruit to be 
preserved. Crush out the juice ; which filter. 
Having bottled the fruit, which shake gently to- 
gether, fill up with juice to within three inches 
of the rim, and cork. Thus with apricots, 



68 CURRANTS. 

plums, peaches, greeD-gages, &c. There is al- 
ways a sufficiency of inferior fruit for juice to 
fill up with. 

A great quantity of grape juice, for yellow 
and white fruit, is used instead of the juice of 
the fruit itself. 

By this means the fruit, surrounded, keeps its 
form, and the bottles always remain full. 



RED AND WHITE CURRANTS, IN BUNCHES. 

Take the finest sort, and of these the best 
bunches, not too ripe, and very clean; bottle 
them; shake the bottle from side to side, to 
make it hold more ; cork, and put them in the 
bain-marief which requires attention. As soon 
as it begins to boil, draw the fire quickly ; a 
quarter of an hour after, turn off the water of 
the bain-marie, &c« 



RED CURRANT JUICE/ 59 



WHITE AND RED CURRANTS, STRIPPED. 

Pick and bottle them, and finish as the last. 
As the stem always gives a harshness to the 
juice, this mode is preferable to the foregoing. 



CHERRIES, RASPBERRIES, MULBERRIES, AND 

BLACK CURRANTS, 

Are to be gathered not very ripe, lest they 
give, ander the operation ; bottle them, shaking 
them carefully in ; cork, and finish as currants. 



RED CURRANT JUICE. 

Red currants must be gathered very ripe, and 
are crushed on fine sieves. Put in a press what 
remains on the sieve, and mix what juice it 
yields with the other. Flavour the whole with 
a little raspberry juice, and pass it through a 



60 WHITE CURAANT JUICE. 

sieve rather finer than the first ; bottle and pro- 
ceed in the bain-maries as for currants stripped. 

White currant juice is treated in a similar 
way. 

For large operations, have a large tammy of 
canvas, from twenty-four to thirty inches in 
diameter, sufiSciently fine to reject the pips; 
place these over a boiler, with a tap at bottom ; 
put twelve or fifteen pounds of currants in a 
tub, and crush them. This well done, transfer 
the fruit to the sieve, turning it about with a 
wooden spatula, not pressing too much, lest you 
slacken the sieve. The whole of the liquid 
passed, put the remainder in a press, and add 
what juice is thus obtained to the other*; bot- 
tle, cork, &C. 



* NeTer use tin, tinned cqpper^ pewter, nor iron, especiaUy 
with acid jnices, as the colour would become violet or black. 
Glass, stone, earthenware, or wood, are not attended with, 
this inconTepien^ 



APPLK JUICE. 61 



CLARIFIED CURRANT JUICE. 

The juice beit^ prepared as above, instead of 
bottling, half fill tureens or small tubs. Add 
one-tenth of cherry juice, which facilitates the 
formation of jelly. Put the whole for the night 
in a cellar or cool place. The next day it will 
be a jelly. Put this into tammies over vessels 
to receive it; in two hours the jelly will be dis- 
solved, the mucilage remaining on the tammies ; 
and you obtain a limpid juice. Bottle, cork, &c. 



APPLE JUICE. 

Peel some fine apples, cut in quarters, take 
out cores and pips ; boil them down with a suffi- 
ciency of water in a sugar pan. When dis- 
solved, pass the marmalade, press what has not 
passed through the sieve, bottle, and let it just 
boil in the bain-marie. 



63 VERJUICE. 

BARBERRIES, POMEGRANATES, ORANGES, 
LEMONS, &c., JUICES. 

Press out the juice, which strain^ and bottle 
it) lightly corked, to clarify it in the bain-marie 
till the juice begins to boil. Draw the fire, and 
let it cool; take it out of the bottles; and the 
next day, when it has settled, draw it off clear 
in other bottles, which cork, &c., and let it just 
boil in the bain-marie. Expedition is necessary, 
or these juices will become cloudy, and would 
be difficult to get bright again, especially lemon 
juice. 



VERJUICE. 

Crush with pestle and mortar, large, firm 
verjuice ; pass it to get out the pips* Press the 
refuse, and add this juice to the other. Bottle, 
&c., and give it a slight boil in the bain-marie. 

Thus preserved, this juice will keep several 
days after being exposed to the air. 



APRICOTS, 63 



STRAWBERRIES* 

Crush and pass them as for making ices ; add 
half a pound of sugar in powder, and the juice 
of half a lemon to each pound. Mix well, bot- 
tle, cork, &c. ; put it in the bain-marie till boiling 
commences, &c* This answers for all but the 
colour, which does not stand. This may be 
supplied by dark red cherry juice. 



APRICOTS. 

For the table, the common apricot, and the 
peach apricot, both from standard trees, are the 
best to preserve. Espalier fruit has not, by a 
great deal, so good a flavour. Mix them, as 
one dissolves less than the other in the heat; 
though they may be preserved separately, but 
then the larger fruit must be some minutes less 
in the bain-marie; that is, as soon as boiling 



64 AFBICOTS. 

commences, take it off; while the other is only- 
taken off afler the first ebullition. 

Gather them ripe, but firm; so that when 
pressed between the finger and thumb, you feel 
the stone detach itself. Generally the leaves 
should be taken from the trees, that the fruit 
may be yellow, and ripened by the sun, whereas 
confectioners like them white, as when they 
ripen in the shade. .The flavour of the latter 
cannot be so fine. Divide them in two with a 
knife: take away the stone, and a thin skin; 
introduce them in halves or quarters, according 
to the mouths of the vessels, which are gently 
shaken to make the fruit lie close ; put twelve 
or fifteen of the kernels in each bottle, cork, 
&c. Let them just boil in the hain marie ; draw 
the fire with the same attention as currants, &c. 



GREENGAGES, ETC. 65 



PEACHES. 

Take those which have the finest flavour, and 
proceed as for apricots. The trees should have 
the leaves taken off a fortnight before the fruit 
is gathered. 



NECTARINES 

Should be riper than the peach; they stand 
the heat better; and do not skin them. Pro- 
ceed as for apricots. 



GREENGAGES AND MIRABELLE PLUMS. 

You may preserve greengages entire, with 
stem and kernel, as well as other large plums. 
But even a large jar contains but few of them ; 
for you cannot shake them close, unless you 
crush them. They diminish in the bain-marie^ 
and the vessel remains half empty. Halve 

F 



66 FEARS. 

large plums, therefore, and take out the stone* 
The operation is more certain with small- 
mouthed vessels, the corks being safer. 

For mirabelles and other small plums, take off 
the stems, which &cilitates their lying close. 
Proceed as for peaches and apricots. 



WHOLE VERJUICE. 



Let it be large and firm ; open it to take out 
the pips; bottle it, shaking it; cork, and just 
let it boil in the bain-marie. 



PEARS. 

Peel them, cut them in quarters, take out the 
pips and cores, and bottle, &c. They must 
only be heated to boiling, if for eating as they 
are. To be dressed, boil them five or six 
minutes in the bain-marie. 



ROASTED CHESNUTS. 67 



QUINCES. 



When ripe, take the down off; prepare it in 
quarters, and let it have half an hoards boiling 
in the bain-marie* 



ROASTED CHESNUTS. 

Having cut the skin on one side, roast them 
in a roasting pan till they are half done, but so 
that they are not discoloured by the fire. The 
fire must be strong, so that they may be readily 
peeled. Case or bottle them, and give them a 
quarter of an hour^s boiling in the bain-marie. 

Again, they may be preserved without being 
peeled, after having cut the skins as those 
above, with a quarter of an hour^s boiling in the 
bain-marie. 

Chesnuts thus preserved may be roasted to 
be served in the napkin. 



F 2 



68 TRUFFLES. 



TRUFFLES. 

Clean them ; peel them as thin as possible ; 
separate those that are white, musky, worm- 
eaten, or frost-bitten. According to the bottles, 
introduce them whole or in pieces. The frag- 
ments are bottled apart. Cork, &c., and boil 
them an hour in the bain-marie^ 

Of course they should be fresh and sound. 
They run in the bain-marie, leaving the bottle 
half empty, especially the larger ones. To 
obviate this, partly dress them first. Put a 
quantity in a large red copper vessel, which 
cover, and stop with luting ; and letting it dip 
about six or seven inches in the bain-marie, 
leave it to boil an hour, when take them out to 
cool. Put them on a sieve over a pan ; separate 
large and small, and put them in vessels pre- 
pared. The juice in the tureen is distributed 
in the bottles or cases, according to the number 
contained ; stop these, &c., and boil half an hour 
^n the bain-marie. 



ESSENCE OF COFF££. ^9 

Thus you obtain bottles full of truffles, whole, 
with all their flavour. 

Thus prepared, fresh truffles will keep two, 
three years, and more. 



MUSHROOMS. 

Take mushrooms from the bed, well formed, 
and firm. Having trimmed and washed them, 
put them on the fire, with a piece of fresh 
butter, or good olive oil, to extract the juice; 
add lemon juice to keep them white. Leave 
them on the fire till the liquor is reduced one 
half; take them off to cool in a tureen ; bottle, 
and give them a good boil up in the bain-marie. 



ESSENCE OF COFFEE. 



By this process may be obtained coffee supe- 
rior to that produced by any other means. 
First experiment, — Having burnt a pound of 



70 ESSENCE OF COFFEE. 

coffee to a light chesnut colour, and having 
pounded it in a mortar, by which means it pre- 
serves considerably more flavour than when 
ground ; divide it, after having passed it through 
a sieve, into three quart bottles, which fill with 
cold water to within three inches of the rims of 
the bottles ; cork them closely, merely to give 
them a good boil up in the bain-mariej from 
which take them when cold. After this let the 
coffee stand two days, to draw it off clear. 

Second experiment, — Again prepare a pound 
of coffee, also divided into three quart bottles. 
Instead of filling them with cold water, as at 
first, use the decoction from the grouts remain- 
ing in the three first bottles; boil them six 
minutes, and draw the liquor off clear. Put the 
second three bottles in the bain-marie^ as before ; 
after which, letting them stand two days, you 
obtain coffee infinitely better than the first 
A dessert-spoonful, in a gill of milk, makes 
an excellent cup. 



TEA. 71 

Third experiment, — Prepare a third pound of 
coffee as before, and fill the bottles with the 
produce of the second experiment, together 
with the decoction from the grouts ; and having 
subjected it to the bain-^mariej just to boil up 
twice, lee it cool, and draw it off clear into 
other bottles, which being well corked, let them 
just boil in the bain-marie. Two or three tea- 
spoonfuls make an excellent cup of coffee, full 
of flavour. 

An extract may be obtained in this way, of 
which one spoonful would suffice, which for 
long voyages would be most advantageous. It 
is not to be warmed^ but merely added to warm 
water or milkii 



TEA. 



The aroma of tea evaporates very rapidly. 
Put into a pint bottle an ounce of good tea ; 
fill this with water, well cork it, and put it in 



72 PUESERYING WINES. 

the bainrmarie. Take it out about six minutes 
before boiling. If left longer, it acquires an 
herbaceous flavour. In twenty-four hours you 
may use. this tea, putting a dessert-spoonful, or 
more^ as you please, adding water just warm 
enough to be taken forthwith, for hot water 
would carry oiF the flavour much.. A bottle 
may serve a month after having uncorked it. 



MEANS OF PRESERVING WINES TOO DELICATE 
TO BE MOVED BY SEA, OR FOR STOWAGE IN 
CERTAIN CELLARS. 

It is well known that the most delicate 
wines of France, Burgundy wine especially, 
will not stand even short sea voyages. The 
susceptibility of some of these wines is even 
such, that they are obliged to be consumed 
where they are grown, rather than risk their 
total loss by removal. 



PRESERVING WINES. 73 



TTie following is an accotmt of an experiment 
on some Beaune Wine. 

Some bottles of the best were filled within an 
inch of the cork, hermetically closed, and wired 
with cross wires. They were then put in the 
bain-marie, and heated to 185 degrees only, for 
fear of affecting the colour. 

A fortnight after, a dozen bottles were sent 
to Havre de Grftce, to be forwarded to sea for a 
long cruise, and be brought back. 

In order to compare them when returned, a 
certain number were retained which had under- 
gone the same operation as those which were 
embarked ; and again, some as they were first 
transmitted from Beaune. 

Upwards of two years after, of six which 
were sent out, only two were brought back from 
Saint Domingo. One of these bottles was sub- 
mitted to the judgment of an experienced con- 
noisseur. He compared it with two others ; 



74 SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

that is to say, one which had remained in the 
cellar at Havre, and which had recently been 
sent back ; the other, one of those kept in its 
original state. The result of this triple com- 
parison was, that this wine, originally the same, 
presented three qualities essentially differing. 

The original wine was very new in flavour ; 
that from Havre had ripened, and preserved its 
flavour; but the superiority of that sent back 
from Saint Domingo was great. Nothing 
could surpass its cleanness, its bouquet, and the 
delicacy of its flavour. A year after, the expe- 
riment was repeated with equal success. The 
advantages are obvious; the only thing is to 
choose good bottles and corks, and to cork well. 



SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

Have beef as fresh as possible. The 
whole must be boned. Gather up the bones, 
and with a stout chopper break them in as small 



SOUP AND BOUILLI. 75 

parts as possible ; add all the trimmings of the 
meat, aiid put bones and trimmings into a di- 
gester or compression boiler, adding as much 
water as will cover them by four inches ; raise 
the heat to 180 degrees. Thus you will use all 
the remnants, of which you will make an ex- 
cellent soup. 

Now divide the meat into pieces suited to the 
size of the boxes to be used. 

When the digester is sufficiently cool to be 
opened without danger, skim off the fifit which 
it contains, and throw the broth over the meat, 
into coppers already prepared for the purpose. 
Add vegetables in a net, and seasoning. 

It is not the quantity of meat which makes 
good broth, but the mode of managing the fire. 
For the meat to yield the animal extract which 
flavours and strengthens soup, it must be pene- 
trated with a gradual heat ; the muscular fibres 
must be dilated, and the gelatine between them 
dissolved. In those same muscles is albumen 



76 SOUP AND BOUILLI. 

also, like white of egg, and which forms the 
scum* This albumen coagulates and hardens 
at a temperature of 212o. 

If you get the fire up too rapidly, the pot- 
au-feu boils before the meat swells out and 
becomes penetrated by the water ; the albumen 
coagulates m the meat, and prevents the gela- 
tine from issuing; you have weak soup, and 
hard meat. But, on the contrary, if you mode- 
rate the heat, so as to give the meat time, it is 
penetrated, the albumen rises in scum, the gela«> 
tine is dissolved, the broth savoury and nourish- 
ing, and the meat tender. 

Having added the vegetables, cover the 
copper, and proceed to boiling; as soon 
as this takes place, moderate the fire, and 
let the meat simmer till it is three-fourths 
done. Take it out, and drain it; sprinkle 
it with coarse salt, and let it cool on platters 
till the next day. 

As the vegetables are not sufficiently done 



SOUP AND BOUILLI. 77 

when the meat is taken up, the liquid must be 
set to boil again gently for a couple of hours. 
After taking them out, skim the soup, pass it 
through a jelly bag, leave it to cool all night, 
take off any remaining fat; and reduce it one- 
half. 

Untie the meat which was tied for boiling, di« 
vide it, with the vegetables, into suitable pieces, 
and put it into cases well washed and wiped. 

As they are filled, the tinman closes them 
exactly, soldering them round, as before indi* 
cated in the article on Cases. 

This operation completed, introduce through 
the hole in the cover the reduced soup, ob- 
serving only to cover the meat with it, and to 
leave an empty space in the case, proportioned 
to its size, so that the expansion of the sub- 
stances may be effected in the bainr-marie. 

Thus prepared, the cases are put in a boiler, 
where they are subjected to the heat of the bain- 
marie, as we have before shown. 



78 MEAT, GAME, ETC. 

The small fillet of beef is larded and roasted; 
the kidney saut^ ; and a hochepot made of the 
tail and roots. These are put in cases, observ- 
ing the usual process. 

General observation. — The operations just de- 
scribed are applicable to all kinds of butcher's 
meat, pork, poultry, game, fish, and vegetables; 
the only variation is in the application of the 
bain^marie^ which is to be modified in proportion 
to the solidity of substances exposed to its 
action. 



Mode of Using Substances Prepared and 

Preserved, 

MEAT, GAME, FOWL, AND FISH. 

An ordinary pot-au-feu, done just as it should 
be in preparation, and in the bain-marie, only 
requires to be sufficiently heated to separate 
soup and beef. 

For the sake of economy, and to lessen the 



RICE SOUP. 79 

number of packages, a good consomm^ is pre- 
ferable, because the beef, as well as the con- 
somtn^, only requires to be warmed ; and by 
adding one*half or two-thirds of water, you 
obtain good soup. 



RICE soup. 

A dessert-spoonful of this substance, pre- 
served as directed, with about two ounces of 
water, will make excellent soup. 

It may be used in any other way. With 
respect to the meat, poultry, game, fish, &c., 
which have been three-fourths done in prepara- 
tion, and the remainder in the bain-marie^ warm 
them on opening the packages, and serve them. 

If it should occur, on opening one, that the 
article were not sufficiently done, from defect in 
the preparation, or from not having been long 
enough in the bain-marie^ simply put it on the 
fire, and finish it. But when all has been pro- 



80 ENTREES. 

perly attended to in the preparation and confeo 

tion, nothing can be more simple and convenient 

tlian the use of these aliments; which require 

merely to be warmed, or, if the consumer prefer, 

may be eaten cold. It is not necessary, as 

might be supposed, that these substances should 

be consumed immediately after being opened ; 

the contents of a bottle .may be in use eight or 

ten days after, only attention must be paid to 

replace the cork, and keep them cool. 

From facts, it appeal's that animal substances 

preserved by the bain-mariey remain in a state 
of preservation long after being opened, and 

that they are not as susceptible of decomposi- 
tion as those prepared by ordinary means. 



ENTREES, WITH TRUFFLES, 

May be used without further preparation, for 
different dishes, at pleasure. 



SWEET CREAMS^ 81 



SAVOURY JELLIES, OR ASPIC. 

A well-prepared jelly, carefully taken out of 
its package, will serve for a garnish to cold 
meats ; ' or uncork and melt it in the bain-marie, 
then put it in a plate or dish, and place on ice to 
congeal it again. 



BROTH, OR STOMACHIC JELLY, 

May be used with more or less boiling water, 
or be eaten as it is. 



MILK, CREAM, AND WHEY, 

Are made use of as if fresh. 



SWEET CREAMS, FOR ENTREMETS, 

Need only be just warmed in the bain-marie. 



82 F&ENCH BEANS. 



VEGETABLES, 

Bottled nWf will be dressed in the bain-marie, 
as directed. The vegetables should be washed 
when taken oat, and warm water put in the 
bottle, which facilitates dieir coming out ; and, 
having drained this off, wash them in a second 
water still warmer, drain them, and prepare 
them as required. 



WHITE BEANS, 

Are blanched, when opened, with a little salt 
and water. When done, leave them in this 
water half an hour or an hour, to mellow ; then 
dress them. 



FRENCH BEANS, 

Are blanched, when not sufficiently dressed 
previous to bottling; a thing which happens 



6a£EN PEAS. 83 

sometimes with artichokes, asparagus, cauli- 
flower, &c. When sufficiently done beforehand, 
merely wash and dress them. 



GREEN PEAS. 



Green peas are prepared several ways. In 
tibe season, if they are not good, the cook takes 
the blame ; but in winter, the person who pre- 
served them is charged with it. Bad butter, 
oil, or htncid fat, used out of economy ; pre- 
paring them an hour or two too soon ; or suffer- 
ing them to be burnt at the bottom of the pan, 
&c., cause them to fail. 

When green peas are well washed and 
drained — ^for this vegetable must not remain in 
the water, put them, with a piece of good fresh 
butter, in a stewpan ; add a bunch of parsley, 
and green onions. Having tossed them several 
times in the butter, dredge them with a little 
flour, and moisten them a moment after with 

G 2 



84 GREEN PEAS* 

boiling water, so that the peas are just bathed. 
Let them thus boil full a quarter of an hour^ 
till there is but very little sauce left; season: 
with salt and a little pepper, and leave them on 
the fire till they are reduced ; take them off, to 
add, for each bottle of peas, as large as a walnut 
of fresh butter, with a spoonful of pounded 
sugar. Toss them well, without replacing them 
on the fire, till the butter is well melted; warm 
the dish, and serve them. If the sugar is added 
when the peas are on the fire, by only boiling 
them once, the peas become tough, and the 
sauce thin and increased, so that it could not be 
set again. The sugar and butter must therefore 
never be added but an instant before serving, 
and after removing the peas from the fire. The 
sauce of g^een peas should not be apparent in 
winter nor in summer. 

Green peas preserved in the way lastly de-> 
scribed, only require to be warmed in the bairi'- 
marie a moment before serving. 



JULIENNB. 85 



PUREE OF LAK6E PRESERVED PEAS. 

An excellent pur^e is made from large pre- 
served peaSf and they are very good au gras* 
Asparagus^ artichokes^ cauliflowers, &C.9 after 
having been washed, are prepared in the usual 
way. 



ENDIVE AND SPINACH. 



Prepare it either au maigre or au gras. When 
all is not used, carefully recork the bottle. 



JULIENNE. 

Put out the contents of the bottle; add a 
quart of boiling water ; and you have soup for 
six or seven persons. 



86 TOMATAS. 



BROTH FROM ROOTS. 



Like julienne, sonp from roots, purees of 
lentils^ carrots, onions, See., veil prepared, will 
give excellent soups at a moments notice. 



FARINACEOUS SUBSTANCES. 

All farinaceous substances, such as gruel, 
rice, sago, vermicelli, and generally, all pastes 
easily digested and nourishing, may be sea- 
soned and prepared either au gras or au maigre, 
even with milk, before they are subjected to the 
conservative process. 



TOMATAS 



Are used as in the season. When opened, 
they only need to be warmed and seasoned. 



PRESERVED PLANTS. 87 



SORREL. 



As there is no difference between sorrel pre- 
served and that which is gathered in the month 
of June, there is no difference in the use of it 



HORSE-RADISH. 

Put horse-radish on the fire with broth^ and 
the requisite seasoning; having suffered it to 
boil a- quarter of an hour, add a piece of fresh 
butter ; and it is served up in a sauce-boat, with 
bouilli* In Germany, this is preferred to 
mustard. 



OF PRESERVED PLANTS GENERALLY. 

To obtain extracts from various productions, 
either reduced or preserved, it will be unneces- 
sary to carry the reduction so fiEir as to interfere 
with the nature or qualities of the article* It 



88 EECAPITULATION* 

will suffice, after they are done to greater or 
less consistency, according to their nature, to 
bottle them, cork them, &c., and just give them 
a boil in the hainrmarie. 

It may not be out of place to state, that in 
more instances than one, the effect of the bain- 
marie has been tried on bottles of yeast, which 
were afterwards found to be utterly useless. This 
is a fair proof that the fermenting principle had 
been destroyed in a body usually containing it 
in the highest degree ; and this is precisely the 
object aimed at 



RECAPITULATION OP THE PROCESS. 

For the better understanding of this method, 
and in order to assist the memory, the following 
is a short and comprehensive view of the.prind^ 
pies and forms : — 

Ist,— The bainHmarie^ properly applied, is the 



BECAPlTUtATlOK. 89 

only tneans known i^t present^ whereby all sub-» 
stances, without exception, may be kept in d 
state of perfect preservation. 

^ndy — A perfect closure must be effected in 
^topping. 

3rd, — Bottles must be carefully made, so that 
the metal be of equal thickness throughout the 
body. They should be in the form of a cone 
in the neck, like champagne bottles. 

4th, — Boxes must be made of sound metal, 
as any imperfection is fatal to preservation, 

5th, — In large corks, made of several pieces, 
the pores must run horizontally. 

6th, — ^The bottles or packages being placed 
in the boiler, the latter is filled with cold water* 
The more evaporation is suppressed, the less 
trouble will there be in adding water afterwards, 
and the less fuel will be used. It is on this 
account that the covered bain-marie is best. 

7th, — The articles having been exposed to 



90 RECAPITULATION. 

the heat during the times spedfied for each, the 
fire is drawn. 

Stb, — Where more than a simple boiling is 
necessary, and no cover is used, the water must 
be kept to the same height, and added water 
must be boiling. This latter operation is super- 
seded by a covered bain-marie* 

dth, — The water must be drawn off a quarter 
of an hour subsequent to the fire being drawn ; 
half an hour after this, the lid of the boiler is 
taken off; an hour after which take out the 
bottles. 

10th, — A close inspection of the bottles is 
requisite, and all the sound ones must be ranged 
on laths, in a cellar or temperate place. Rosin 
may be put round the corks, or luting, such as 
has been described. 



COMPRESSION BOILER. 91 

OF THE DIGESTER, OR COMPRESSION BOILER,* , 
AND THHl WAY OF USING IT. 

» 

This subject is presented in a practical point 
of view, as the results of long experience in the 
use of it. 

A digester, containing three hundred quarts, 
was first used to extract gelatine, or isinglass^ 
from bones ; and it was found that a pressure of 
fifteen pounds on the safety-valve was insuffi- 
cient for the purpose. It was augmented to 
twenty-two pounds, which sufficed for the en- 
tire extraction of the gelatine. 

Five additional pounds' weight afterwards 
caused the gelatine to contract a degree of 
bitterness, which obliged the operator to recur 
to twenty-two pounds^ weight on the valve. 

Afterwards, two were made, containing four 
hundred quarts each. 



* The maken of these compresBion boilers are the proper 
persons to decide on the weight to be put on the safetj.valve. 



92 WORKING THE DIGESTER. 



MANNER OF WORKING THE DIGESTER. 

The two vital points are, to regulate the fire 
attentively during the operation, and to watch 
the safety valve, to see that it does not hitch — 
that is to say, that it remains free in its action. 

Having charged the digester with whatever 
it may be, for all substances undergo the same 
process, except in the pressure used, light the 
fire, which must be made to burn briskly. In 
about three quarters of an hour, boiling is per- 
ceived by the slight escape of steam. The 
valve is immediately set, and especial care must 
be taken that the inferior end of it is fidrly in 
the hole made to receive it inside. Turn the 
valve round from time to time. When it is 
first raised, put on the first weight, and increase 
the fire ; turn the spindle, or stem of the valve, 
round again, and as it continues to rise, add 
weight till you have a sufficiency. On putting 
the last on, slacken the fire, and turn the valve 



WORKING THE DIGESTER. 93 

round till the action of the steam bears it up, 
weight and all. Draw the fire at once, just 
leaving a little in a corner of the furnace. If, 
after closing the door of the furnace, any steam 
escapes by the valve, add a seventh weight to 
the six others : this last weight should always be 
kept in reserve for this purpose. 

In about four hours, the heat will be lowered, 
so that you may take off the weights : these are 
taken off one by one, as the steam ceases to 
issue at the valve^ When the noise which it 
made subsides, take out the valve, which wipe^ 
as well as the receiver. Unscrew the lid^ with 
both hands take the ends of the horizontal bar, 
turn the cover round, and draw it off with the 
puUy^ 

Two hours' close watching is all that this 
operation demands. 



94 GELATINS FR03I BOKES. 



GELATINE FROM BONES, WTTHOtrr ACID. 

Gelatine^ or iinnglaiw, is acknowledged as the 
best of all clarifien. 

Not only is it usefiil as finings for wine^ bat it 
is seniceable for jellies and entremets. For sea 
biscuits, and in lymnnlacturing stofb and bats, its 
yse IS appreciated. 

The bones must be well broken. Some per- 
sons hare imagined that they would answer 
better ground; but this is not the case. From 
experience, it is found that the water does not 
get at them so well, and has consequently less 
power to dissolve them, than when, being in 
larger fragments, they cannot lie so closely to- 
gether, but leave room for the water to cir- 
culate among them. 

Three-fourths fill the digester, and continue 
the operation as before ; merely that, on open- 
ing the vessel, the fat being skimmed off, the 
liquid is pumped over through a sieve into a 



nkatVfoot oil. 95 

boiler. Take out the bones, and let them drain 
off the liquor about them. 

Light the fire under the boiler, and proceed 
to clarify thus:— '^ To clarify 800 quarts of this 
liquid, beat six eggs, whites and yolks, which 
mix with six quarts of cold spring water. When 
the liquid boils, and has been once skimmed, 
sprinkle a quart of this mixture over the top ; 
skim again as the scum rises, and continue thus 
till you have used it all. Then cover the boiler 
down, draw the fire, and leave the liquor to 
settle two hours. Draw as much off as will run 
dear. The gelatine is then reduced by evapo- 
ration, with particular attention to its taking no. 
colour. 



EXTRACTION OF NEAPS-FOOT OIL. 

The oil extracted by means of the digester is 
infinitely superior in every respect to that pro- 
duced by ordinary boiling. The feet must be 



96 keat's-foot oil, 

fresh. Tbey must be well soaked, brushed, and 
cleaned. The water must be changed three 
times by the evening after they are first put in 
soak ; and they are again washed and brushed 
previous to being put in the fourth water, where 
they remain two hours. They are drained, and 
placed in a boiler where there is just water 
enough to cover the bottom on which they are 
piled: more water would cause the oil to be 
wasted in this early stage of the operation. 
Light the fire, and carry the heat to 160 or 170 
degrees, about. Take off the hoofs as soon as- 
they Mrill come away, and throw the feet into 
a tub of cold water. 

After this, drain the feet, and cover them 
three inches deep with water in the digester, 
which must invariably be three-fourths full. 
Proceed as for gelatine. 

The fire being drawn, and the valve charged 
with all its weights, leave the whole to cool four 
Or five hours. Whei^ it has perfectly settled^ 



GELATINE FROM NEAt's FOOT. 97 

with a shallow ladle take out gently three- 
fourths of the oil on top ; the remainder, being 
a mixture of grease and oil, is taken entirely off, 
and in a few days the grease precipitates itself. 
Separate the oil, and with the other put it in 
cask. 

If none of that care and attention is dispensed 
with, which I have recommended, you obtain an 
oil without taste or smell, and which, for culi- 
nary purposes, may supplant olive oil. But if, 
on the contrary, there is a desire to save trouble, 
sudi results cannot of course be expected. 



METHOD OF EXTRACTING GELATINE FROM 

NEAT'S FOOT. 

After having taken the oil and grease out of 
the digester, as has just been shown, pump out 
the liquor saturated with gelatine, to reduce it 
by evaporation. The bones, very hard at 
first, will be found easy to break after this boil- 

H 



98 GELATINE FROM MEATUS FOOT. 

ing, and they still retain two-thirds of their 
gelatine. Break them, cover them with six 
inches of water in the boiler, and finish as be- 
fore directed. 

The extraction ofjme nec£s-foot oil, connected 
as it is with the production of gelatine after- 
wards, and with the fat resulting, offers great 
advantages on a large scale. 



INDEX. 



Animal substances generally 

Antiscorbutic plants 

Apple juice 

Apricots 

Artichokes, whole 

' in quarters 

' a la barigoule 

Asparagus . 

Aspic (for use) 



PAGE 

. 29 

. 54 

. 61 

. 63 

. 48 

. ib. 

. 49 

44, 45 

. 81 



Bain-marie 

boiling in 

time 

Barberries . 
Beef jelly 
Beet-root 
Bottles . 

when used . 

Bottling . 

Broth (for use) 

— — from roots (for use) 

Butter 

observations on . 



. 10 

. 11 

. 13 

. 62 

. 23 

. 51 

. 3 
4 

. ib. 

. 81 
24, 86 

. ns 

. 40 



INDEX. 



101 



Fillets of mutton 

beef 

Fish (for use) 
Fowl (for use) 
French beans 



(for use) 



Fricasee of fowl 
Fruit 



PAGE 

. 27 

. ib. 

. 78 
ib. 

. 47 

. 82 

. 27 

. 59 



Game (for use) 
Garnishes 
Gelatine, from bones 

neatWoot 

General sauces . 
Grayy soup 
G>reen-gag€8 
Green peas . 
(for use) 

Haricot beaks 
Horse-radish (for use) 

Jellies 
Juices of fruits 

— herbs . 

' lemon . 
Julienne soup (for use) . 

Large pieces 
Lemons • • 

Luting 



. 78 

. . 28 

. 94 

. . 97 

. 26 

. . 22 

. 65 

. 41, 43 

. 83 

. 47 

. 54,87 

. 81 

. 57 

. 56 

. 62 

24, 85 

. 28 
. 62 
. 8 



102 



INDEX. 



Matelottr 
Meat (for use) 
Milk 

(for use) 

reduction of 

Mirabelle plums 

Mock-turtle 

Mushrooms 



PAOE 

. 27 

78 
. 33 

81 
. 36 
. 66 
. 96 
. 69 



NeAT's-FOOT OIL 

Nectarines . , 



95 
65 



Onions 

Orange flowers . 

■ juice 
Ox-cheek soup . 

Peaches 
Pears 
Peas, green 

English way 

puree of . 

Peppermint 
Pomegranates 
Pot-au-feu . 
Prepared meats . 
Preserved plants (for use) 

duINCES 



. 51 

. 55 

. 62 

. 26 

. 65 

. 66 
41,83 

. 44 

. 85 

. 54 

. 62 

. 21 

. 28 

. 87 

. 67 



Rice soup 



23 



INDEX. 103 

PAGE 

Rice soup (for use) . . . .79 

Recapitulation of the process . . . 88 

Signs of failure in bottles . .14 

— — in tin cases . .16 

Sorrel ^0,87 

. 87 
. 74 

. 85 



(for use) 



Soup and Bouilli 

Spinach ..... 

(for use) 

Stomachic broth . . 26, 81 

81 



jelly 



Sweet creams (for use) . .81 

Strawberries .63 

Tarragon . .54 

Tea . .71 

Tomatas .... 52,86 

Truffles . 68 

(for use) .80 

Turnips . . . 51 

Turtle 26 

Veal jelly . . . 23 

Vegetables, gathering .41 



(for use) . . . . 82 
Veijuice . .62 
■ whole . . . 66 

Whey . .38 

— — (for use) . ' f • .81 



104 INDEX. 

PAGE 

White hash of poultry . . .27 

White beans . . . 47 

Windsor beans, small . .46 



skinned . . 47, 82 

Wines . . . .72 

Wiring . . . , 7 



THE END. 



LONDON : BRADHIiRY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, VMIITkPRIAhS. 



f» 



Adtirtiiimemt. 
THE 

"COMPLETE MODERN COOK; 

III WHICH WILL BH VOUMD MAITT 

NEW SOUPS, SAUCES, AND ENTREES, 

WITH 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH INDEXES, BILLS OF 
FARE FOR EACH MONTH, 

TABLES OF ARTICLES IN SEASON, 

With yarious information of much value to both 
Cook and Consumer. 

*«* T^ii work has puXtHdjf and privately reoewed the approbation of all 
Viae hut qualified to judge of its meriti, 

11, LITTLE STANHOPE^ST. MAY.FAIR, LONDON. 



^^'^^f^^^i^^^*^^0^^^*0^^^^>^^^>^t^^*^»^^^^^^i^*^^^^'*^^^i^>^ 



Few persons, eomparatiTely, are as yet sufficiently ac- 
quainted with preseryed fresh provisions, to form a just 
estimate of their quality and condition. H. W. Brand 
challen^s comparison, fully confident, that his articles are 
inferior to none, though a decided difference wUl be/tnind 
between them and many in the market. He feels bound to 
assert thus much in Justice to himself, as he is assured, 
that those who, being aware of the high utility of the 
Modem Process of Preservation, avail themselves of the 



advantages which it offers, will readily distinguish between 
the good and the indifferent, if they only take an oppor- 
tunity of judging between them. 

The following articles are now in general use, and the 
very extensive sale which they command, sufficiently 
demonstrates how highly they are appreciated. 

By the most scrupulous care in the selection of all his 
materials, and by the most unremitting attention in the 
manufacture of them, always under his own immediate 
inspection, H. W. Brand endeavours to merit the contin- 
uation of the ample favours which have been bestowed on 
him, determined, by every means in his power, to fulfil 
the expectation of those who use his preparations, in the 
confidence that they purchase a pure, well conditioned, 
and well manufactured article ; a confidence which, he 
regrets to say, may have been lessened by the very inferior, 
coarse, and ill flavoured wares, in certain instances, offered 
to the Public. 

Not an article is offered in the following list but is im- 
portant for culinary purposes ; and the more important an 
article is, the more essential is it that such article should 
be of the best quality, and manufactured with correspond- 
ing attention and skill. 

Among others, may be particularly specified, as having 
elicited the highest encomiums from many of the Nobility 
and Gentry, — Brand's Game Soups, Clear Turtles, and 
Smelts en Sardines ^ which latter have received the most 
unqualified approbation from their exquisite delicacy and 
fineness of fiavour. 



3 



List. 



All kinds of Preserved Fresh Provisions supplied for Home 
or Foreign consumption : also Potted Game and Pies 

of every description, 

BRAND'S Herbaceous Mixture for Seasoning Pott«!d 
Game, Soups, Savoury Pies, Force Meats, Stuf- 
fing, &c. 

Aromatic Mixture for Mince Pies, Plum Pud- 
dings, &c. 

Pea Soup Seasoning. 

Essence of Cayenne. 

Ditto of Ham, for enriching Soups, Sauces, and 

Gravies. 

-I Glaze for Hams, Tongues, &c. 

Concentrated Beef Tea, for delicate constitutions ; 

in very high estimation. 

— — • Concentrated Gravy for enriching Sauces and 
Soups. 

Portable Soups, — Beef, Veal, Mutton, Chicken, 

Game, &c. 

Poudre d' Enfer, for Broils,— Devils. 

Browning Paste, for colouring Soups, &c. 

Indurated Essence of Meat ^ or Savoury Lozenge 

in great use. 

Prepared Cochineal, for coloring Jellies, Creams, 

&c. 

Emerald Green, for Gum Paste, &c. 

Vegetable Blue, for ditto, and Sugars. 

- Do. Yellow, for Jellies, Creams, Sugars, and Ices. 



BRAND'S Vegetable Carmine^ for Creams, Sugars, and 
Ices. 

Essence of Vanillay for flayooring Jellies, Creams, 

Soaffl^s, &c. ' 

**— Potted Tongue, Pheasant, Grouse, Ham, Hare, 
Chicken, Beef, Larks, Lamprey, Salmon, anxl 
Lobsters. 

Yorkshire and Game Pies. 

- Obstchekompot. 
IMPORTS, Quatre Apices. 

Terrines de Foies OtBM de Strasbourg. 

Hures de Sanglier, (Boar's Head.) 

Sardines. 

Saumon, a 1' Huile. 

Preserved Pur6e of the finest French Sorrel. 

Pies from Perigord, Angoul6me, and Amiens. 

French Truffles. 

Yisnozakouska, uniyersally used at the Tables of 

the Russian Nobility after dinner. 

— •— Parisian Bon Bons and Crystallized Sugars. 

OAMB POTTSD AND PBBSBRYBD FOB FRIT ATE FAMILIES. 



Sold at all respectable Italian Warehouses in LONDON ; 

and by Messrs. Copplestow, PLYMOUTH; 

Folkard & Cobbett, BRIGHTON; 

Primer, CHELTENHAM; 

Stevens, OXFORD; 

&c. 



I 



