M^ 










mi'^ 



I 



A Physiological Fact. A surgeon in the U S 
Miny recently desired to know the most common 
cuute of enlistments. By permission of the captain 
of the company, containing fifty-five, in a pledge 
never to disclose ihe name of any officer or private, 
except as a physical fad, the true history was ob- 
tained of every man. On investigation, it appears 
that nine-tenths enlisted on account of some female 
difficulty, thirteen of them had changed their names, 
and forty-three were either drunk or partially so, at 
the time of their enlistment. Most of these m ere men 
of fine talents and learning, and about one-third had 
once been men in elevated stations of life; four had 
been lawyers, three doctors, and two ministers. The 
experimenter believes if it were not for his pledge of 
secrecy, that this would be as interesting a history, 
and would exhibit the frailty of human nature as fu'' 
as any experiments ever mad on the subject o*^ 
passions. _ 



Dunglison's American Medical Library. ^ 



ON THE 



,jfy^^^^^/ii[M^ 



ENLISTING, 
DISCHARGING AND PENSIONING 



OP 



SOLDIERS, 



WITH 



THE OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS ON THESE BRANCHES OF 
MILITARY DUTV. 

BY 

HEN1RY MARSHALL, F. R. S. E. 

DEPUTir INSPECTOR-GENERAL OF ARMY HOSPITALS. 



l''ftOM THE SECOND LONDON EDITION. '^ 

WITH THE 

REGULATIONS FOR THE RECRUITING SERVICE IN THE 

ARMY AND NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES, 

AND A PREFACE. 

BY W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, M. D. 

Surgeon U. S. Navy ; Fellow of the Colloge of PhysicianB of Philadelphia; 
Surgeon of tbe U. i^. Naval Eendezvous, Philadelphia, tec. &c. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
PUBLISHED BY A. Vi^ALDIE, 46 CARPENTER STREET, 

1840. 



>-v 



\ >.> 



% vt^t 






.,^fv7 



PREFACE. 



In the following pages I have endeavoured to give a practical 
commentary on the regulations which have been issued in regard 
to the duty of examining recruits, and the discharginsf of disabled 
soldiers; and, in the execution of this design, my principal aim 
has been to explain the practice of carryina: the rules into effect 
not to argue their policy, or to suggest reforms; to narrate, rather 
than to discuss. In a financial, a political, and, perhaps I may add, 
in a medical point of view, I am not aware of any part of the duty 
of a medical officer which is of more importance than the inspec- 
tion of recruits on a large scale, and the examination of inefficient 
soldiers; and, consequently, these duties deserve a very careful 
consideration. 

Should this manual contribute, in however small a degree, to the 
compilation of a comprehensive work on military hygiene^ includ- 
ing a treatise on the duties of medical officers, I shall be much 
gratified. In the simple but expressive language of Sir John 
Pringle, it may be asked, " What inquiry can be so useful as that 
which hath for its object the saving of the lives of men?" " The 
prevention of diseases," he very justly observes, "cannot consist in 
the use of medicines." To preserve the health of soldiers, and to 
promote their efficiency in all climates, and under the various cir- 
cumstances of peace and war, are highly important objects which 
should engage not only the attention of government, but the care- 
ful study of both military and medical officers. There is, I fear, 
too much truth in the following observation of Vaidy: " Tant que 
les peiiples seront gouvernes par des hommes et que les hommes 
auront des passions^ la guerre sera un mal inevitable.^'' " PeaceJ'' 
says Segur, " is the dream of the wise ; icar is the history of 
man.^^ 

I am under many obligations to Sir James M'Grigor, for his 
liberality in offering me permission to examine the valuable docu- 
ments in the record room of the medical department of the army, 

mar 1* 



IV" PREFACE. 

for the purpose of gleauing materials for my volume ; and I take 
this opportunity of sincerely thanking him for his kindness, of 
whioli 1 should have been most happy to take advantage, had I 
been a resident in London. 

From my worthy friends, Major Tulloch and Dr. Balfour, Assist- 
ant Staff-suro^eon, I have received much assistance in revisin: the 
proof-sheets ; and I avail myself of the present occasion, with great 
pleasure, lo return them my grateful thanks. 

H. M. 

Edinburgh, June^ 1829. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 



ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIEKS. 



Enlistment of recruits, ...,.. 
Stature, weight, and eircumfcrence of the chest of recruits, 
Class of the population from which recruits are procured, 
Minimum and maximum age of recruits, .... 

Instructions for the guidance of medical officers in the duty of examining 
cruits Object of the instructions Disabilities which disqualify men for 
army, ......... 

1. Feeble constitution, &c. ..... 

2. Weak or disordered intellect, .... 

3. Chronic cutaneous affections, .... 

4. Severe injuries of the bones of the head, 

5. Impaired vision, ...... 

6. Deafness, ....... 

7. Loss of many teeth, ..... 

8. Impediment of speech, . , . . 

9. Want of due capacity of the chest (heart), 
JO. Inadequate efficiency of the superior extremities, 

11. Curvature of the spine, ..... 

12. Hernia, ....... 

13. Disease of a testicle, ..... 

14. Inadequate efficiency of the inferior extremities, 

15. Ulcers, cicatrices, &c. ..... 

16. Traces of corporal punishment, .... 

17. Diseases requiring medical treatment, 
Routine of examination, ....... 

Medical boards on ineligible recruits, ..... 

Importance of the duty of inspecting recruits, .... 

Form of returns, . . . ... 

Obscure and doubtful disabilities, . . 

Efficiency required for different branches of the service, 



Vttge 
1 
3 
5 
9 



re- 
the 



14 
16 
20 
20 
20 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
30 
30 
30 
31 
35 
36 
41 
43 
43 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Note I. Form of attestation, . . . . . . 

II. Evidence of the Duke of Wellington in regard to a better class of re- 
cruit?, . . . . 

III. Influence of age on the mortality of troops, .... 

IV. Recruits required for the British army, .... 
V. Circular letter respecl'ing Jlal feet and broad feet, 

VI. On the examination and the rejection of recruits, 
VTI. Town and country recruits, ...... 

VIII. Contribution to statistics of the depots of recruiting districts, 



45 

48 
48 
49 
50 
52 
61 
63 



CONTENTS. 



PART II. 



ON THE DISCHARGING OF SOLDIERS. 



General order, 1st January, 1838, ..... 

On the duty of jdischarging disabled soldiers, .... 

Examination of alleged inefficient soldiers, 

Diseases and disabilities which disqualify soldiers for service in the army, 
Class I. Diseases of the eyes Total or partial loss of vision. 

1. Ophthalmia, ...... 

2. Amaurosis, ..... 

3. Cataract, ..... 
II. Diseases or impaired function of the ear. 

1. Deafness and deaf-dumbness, 

III. Diseases of the organs of respiration and circulation. 

1. Stammering, ..... 

3. Consumption, asthma, dyspnoea, 

3. Haemoptysis, ..... 

4. Diseases of the heart or large blood-vessels, . 

5. Varicose veins, ..... 

IV. Diseases or impaired function of the organs of digestion. 

1. Visceral turgescence (Physconia), 

2. Chronic disease of the liver, 

3. Vomiting, ..... 

4. Bowel complaint, .... 

5. Hernia, ...... 

V. Diseases and lesions of the genito-urinary organs. 

1 . Diseases of the testicles, 

2. Incontinence of urine, .... 

3. Calculus vesicae, .... 
VI. Diseases and lesions of the skin and cellular membrane. 

1. Ulcers, ...... 

2. CEdema Swelled leg, 
VII. Diseases and impaired function of the organs of locomotion. 

1. Rheumatic pains, .... 

2. Lameness Old fractures, 

3. Deformity of the spine, .... 

4. Contractions, .... 

5. Mutilations, 

6. Wounds, ..... 
VIII. Diseases and lesions of the lymphatic system, and of the 

generally. 

1. Scrofula, . . ' . 

2. Cachexy, . . . . . 

3. Dropsies, ...... 

4. Worn out, ..... 
IX. Diseases and lesions of the nervous system. 

1. Palsy, general or partial, 

2. Epilepsy, ..... 

3. Mental alienation Weakness of intellect, 
X. Moral disabilities, ..... 



Page 
64 
72 

. 74 
81 

, 82 
85 



86 



89 
90 
91 
92 

93 
94 
95 
96 
96 

99 

99 

100 

100 
102 

104 
106 
108 
109 
114 
119 



constitution 



. 120 
121 

. 122 
122 

. 123 
128 

. 131 
138 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Note I. Intemperate language Coercive measures, 
II. Statistics of hernia, . 



140 
142 



CONTENTS. 



Vll 



PART III. 



PENSIONING OF SOLDIERS. 



I. Military pensions Chelsea hospital Out-pensicners, 
II. Pensioning warrant 1629, . . . , 

1. Division of pensions into four classes, 

a. Length of service, .... 

b. Wounds received in action, 

c. Disabilities contracted after fourteen years' servl 

d. Disabilities under fourteen years' service, 

2. Special cases of debility, 

3. Forfeiture of pension, 

4. Commutation of pension, 

5. Rules in recording service, 

6. Conditions under which discharges may be obtained, 

7. Deductions to which a pensioner is liable. 
Warrant regulating the grant of pensions, allowance, and relief to 

on their discharge from the army (7lh February, 1833), 

1. Permanent pensions, .... 

2. Temporary pensions, or gratuities in lieu thereof, 

3. Discharges by indulgence, 

4. Rewards for meritorious conduct, 

5. General provisions, .... 
Warrant (18th August, 1836), ..... 

V. Instructions consequent upon his majesty's warrant of the ISlh 
1836, (13th September, 1836,) 
VI. Good conduct warrant (9th May, 1839), 



III 



IV 



Page 
. 144 

155 
. 155 

156 
. 159 

159 
. 160 

161 
. 162 

167 
. 167 

169 
. 178 
soldiers 

179 
. 180 

184 
. 185 

186 
. 187 

191 
August, 

. 195 

196 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Note I. Diet table of the pensioners in Chelsea hospital, .... 204 

Hotel des Invalides and Chelsea hospital, .... 204 

II. Recruiting of the army, and the medical examination of recruits, . 205 



ADDITIONAL CONTENTS. 



iz 
xiii 

XV 

xvii 
xix 

XX 
XXX 



Preface to American edition, ....... 

Regulations for the recruiting service of the navy, .... 

Regulations for the^enlistment of boy? in the navy, .... 

Remarks on the fourth article of the regulations for the recruiting service of the 
navy, ......... 

Regulations for the discharge of persons from the naval service, . 
Regulations for the general recruiting service of the army of the United States, 
Pensions, ......... 

Opinion of the attorney general on the description of disability which entitles the 
claimant to a pension, ....... xxxi 

" Total disability" understood to apply to the nature, and not to the extent of dis- 
ability in certain cases, ....... xxxiii 

Surgeon's affidavit, . . . . . . . . xxxiv 

Rules of evidence relative to invalid pensioners, .... xxxvi 

Letter from the commissioner of pensions to the secretary of the navy, . xxxvii 

Proposed pensioning regulations, ...... xxxix 

Naval Asylum, . . . . . . . . . xli 

Proposed alteration in the pension laws, . . . . . xlii 

Remarks on granting pension ceitificates, ..... xliii 



PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 



The jo^reat value of the work of Mr. Marshall, to medical and 
other officers of the army and navy, will at once be perceived, after 
pernsing the very meagre regulations which have been issued from 
the war and navy departments, to be observed in the medical inspec- 
tion of recruits. And when it is remembered that physicians and 
surgeons in private practice may be called upon for certificates to 
excuse men from serving in the militia, as well as to obtain pen- 
sions, it will be admitted that the editor of ''The American Medi- 
cal Library and Intelligencer" deserves thanks for fjlacing this 
work within the reach of the profession of the United States." 

In order to render the work more useful to the medical and other 
officers of the army and navy of the United States, I have added 
the few regulations which are now in force for enlistins", discharg- 
ing, and pensioning men in our own service. For copies of these 
regulations I am indebted to the politeness of the Hon. J. K. 
Paulding, Secretary of the Navy, and to Dr. Thomas I.awson, 
the Surgeon-general of the Army. 

The inspection of recruits, both for the army and navy, involv- 
ing as it does the consideration of the interests of the government 
and of individuals, which are often conflicting, is perhaps the most 
important and difficult duty which the surgeon is called upon to 
perform. (See page 36.) Men who, through vice, dissipation, or 
misfortune, find it difficult to obtain a livelihood from private 
patronage, are very apt to seek employment in the army or navy, 
often with the sole view of obtaining medical attendance, and ulti- 
mately an asylum or pension ; and even when the greatest caution 
and circumspection are observed, some unworthy and inefficient 
individuals gain admission into the service. Nor is this very sur- 
prising, when we consider that, prompted by their interests, recruits 
resort to every means within their knowledge to deceive the in- 
specting officer, whose examination is generally limited, for each 
recruit, to ten or fifteen minutes a period much too short to 
ascertain the qualities of a horse, in which the most astute and 
wary jockey may be deceived. 

The requisite qualifications of men for the army and navy are 
nearly the same, except that, in the latter, personal appearance and 
a certain stature are not indispensable; hence the rules applicable 
to the inspection of men for one branch of the service apply, gene- 
rally, with equal force to the other. 

9 b mar 2* 



X PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 

It is self-evident that men who are perfect in structure, and whose 
organs are in the healthful exercise of their several functions, are to 
be preferred for the naval service; hut as those persons who otTer 
as recruits are frequently marked by some blemish, arising from 
the exposures to which their manner of life renders them obnox- 
ious, it becomes a serious consideration to estimate with what de- 
gree of ability less than perfect a man may be useful in the service. 
Experience has taught that certain imperfections of physical and 
moral constitution entirely destroy the fitness of an individual for 
the performance of nautical duties. Upon most of these points 
medical opinion is definite, and, what is more important, it is uni- 
form. There are, however, points upon which medical officers in 
the navy do not agree; and these opinions, I believe, in many 
instances, are swayed by the exigencies of the service. 

Although it may be argued that no rule can be formed, of so 
definite a character as to dispense with the deliberate exercise of 
the judofrnent of the inspecting oflicer, it is nevertheless true that 
certain diflerences of opinion, on the eligibility and ineligibility of 
recruits, might be settled by an order, and thereby an approxima- 
tion to uniformity be produced which does not now exist. For 
example, in the minds of some surgeons, gonorrhosa, recent vene- 
real sores, (which are so common amongst sailors recently dis- 
charged from vessels of war after a cruise,) scars from wounds, 
slight deformities from fractures, even where there is no evidence 
of loss of power of limb, are sufficient causes to reject, not only 
individuals offering for the first time, but also those who offer after 
having served many years; in cases, too, where the men have only 
a few days previously completed, satisfactorily to the officers under 
whom they may have served, the term of their enlistment. The 
reason assigned for this decision, so prejudicial to the service when 
men are scarce, is, that the period necessary for the cure of some 
of the above named affections is uncertain ; yet the medical officers 
who entertain these views would not consider any of the above 
disqualifying causes in a raw recruit, sufficient, when occurring in 
a veteran, to entitle him to pension, smart-money, or other gratuity. 
Military custom in almost all countries has established as a prin- 
ciple that previous services give an individual a claim to serve 
again, and in this way receive a remuneration for his corporeal 
wear and tear, as well as for having lost in the public service his 
aptness to pursue advantageously his peculiar vocation under pri- 
vate patronage. Notwithstanding this principle strongly influences 
the medical officer in estimating a recruit, under the present regu- 
lations, he is often at a loss to determine to what extent he should 
perniit the above consideration to have weight in making up his 
opinion, because the regulations have no retrospective principle 
expressed or implied in them. 

The want of some definite regulation which shall have the effect 
of establishing, as far as the subject will permit, a uniformity of 
opinion among medical officers themselves, upon the eligibility and 



i 



PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. JTl 

ineligibility of recrnits, subjects this branch of the service to many 
unnecessary difficulties. Such a reo^ulation is required to prevent 
an itjdividual who has been rejected at one rendezvous from being 
accepted at another, as well as to guard against passing at a ren- 
dezvous an individual who may be considered unfit for the service, 
when he is subjected to a second or third inspection, at another 
station. 

If this subject should be confided to the deliberate consideration 
of a board of experienced medical officers, as has been suggest- 
ed to the navy department as long ago as August, 1831, and 
more recently, in the past year, I feel confident that regulations 
would be formed to obviate most, if not all, the difficulties which 
arise from the cause here alluded to. It is no reflection upon any 
one to remark, that this subject should be confided to medical ofii- 
cers exclusively, because none other than those who possess a com- 
petent knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and pathology, can 
reasonably be expected to form practically efficient regulations, 
which entirely depend upon this kind of information for their prin- 
ciples and application. The force of this remark will be more 
apparent upon reading the fourth article of the regulations for the 
recruiting service of the navy. 

With a desire to hasten the collection of recruits, doubtful cases 
are sometimes approved, which would not occur if all doubts should 
be cast against the recruit. And this should be the general rule, 
because the interests of the service are best consulted by enlisting 
only those \vho are calculated to be efficient; some exception may 
be made in favour of veterans who have received blemishes in the 
service. The extent of this exception must rest with the judgment 
of the recruiting officers, who should be careful to exclude all who 
may be entitled, in any considerable degree, to the benefits of the 
pension laws. Recommendations from officers, no matter how high 
may be their rank, should never influence the decision of the in- 
specting officer, who is required to certify as to the soundness of an 
individual in his bodily and mental condition; nor should officers 
who give recommendations consider themselves slighted when they 
learn that men have been rejected, notwithstanding the favourable 
testimonials which they may have furnished. I have heard of men 
being shipped at the instance of a captain in the navy, who were 
afterwards found to be ruptured. The officer was of course im- 
posed upon. 

I sent a man home from on board of the LJ. S. Ship Falmouth 
at Rio de Janeiro, in 1831, who twice imposed himself upon the 
recruiting officers with a fistula in perineo of several years' stand- 
ing, for which he had been unsuccessfully treated at several civil 
hospitals. This could not have occurred had the recruit been sub- 
jected to the routine examination prescribed by Mr. Marshall, (see 
page 31,) which should in no case be omitted. When it is neglect- 
ed, the benevolence of the inspecting officer is very apt to subject 



XII 



PREFACE TO THE AMERICAN EDITION. 






him to imposition, and consequently to reprimand from the head of 
the department. 

The re-enlistment of unfit and unworthy persons, (in the service 
of the United States, men engage for periods not exceeding five 
years,) might be prevented to some extent by adopting a form of 
certificate of discharge, similar to that on page 72, and estabUshing 
a rule that no man shall be re-entered who does not produce a cer- 
tificate of discharge. 



REGULATIONS 
For the Recruiting Service of the Navy, 

Article I. As the appointment of officers to attend to the 
recruiting service is intended not only to hasten the collection of 
recruits for the navy, hut to guard against the enlistnient of im- 
proper, unsound, or incompetent persons, they are to give strict 
and constant attendance to their duties at the rendezvous. The 
junior officers who may be ordered upon this duty are intended as 
assistants to the commanding officer, and not to act as his substi- 
tutes, except in cases where he is unable to attend by reason of 
sickness, or when absent on leave with the sanction of the depart- 
ment. Under all other circumstances, he will be expected to attend 
daily at the rendezvous, morning and evening, and to personally 
question the persons offering to enter, examine into their qualifica- 
tions, and determine whether they may enter or not, and in what 
capacity or rating. 

Article II. Recruiting officers shall enter no boy under thir- 
teen years of age without the consent of his parent or guardian, if 
any such may be found: nor any landsman over twenty-five years 
of age, unless he shall have a knowledge of some mechanical trade 
which will be useful on board a vessel, nor any landsman having 
such mechanical trade, unless he is under thirty-five years of age. 
No person is to be entered as ordinary seaman unless he shall have 
been at sea at least two years, nor as seaman unless he shall have 
been at sea at least five years. 

Article III. Recruiting officers are not to enter persons as 
petty officers, excepting for yeoman, master at arms, armourer, 
cooper, carpenter's mates, ship's stewards, officers' steward, officers' 
cook, or master of the band : nor must he enter any of these ratings, 
or boys to serve until they are twenty-one years of age, except by 
the special order or permission of the commander of the station. 
Free blacks or other free coloured persons are only to be entered 
by the approbation of the commander of the station. 

Article IV. The surgeon or other medical officer who may 
be appointed to examine persons offering to enter, or upon their 
first joining a receivinsf or other vessel after enlistment, shall not 
certif^y to the fitness of any person unless he shall be of sound mind, 
possess the power of seeing and hearing: distinctly, and have no 
serious impediment of speech have the free use of his muscles and 
joints the proper use of his hands and feet be free from external 
and internal tumours, and from all cutaneous diseases and chronic 
ulcers nor if his appearance indicates the presence of or danger 
from consumption, scrofula, or dangerous diseases from the effects 



XIV RECRUITING SERVICE 

of intemperance or other causes nor if known to be subject to 
epilepsy or similar diseases. If persons should be entered for par- 
ticular stations as petty officers, with rupture3S, or other injuries, 
which, in tlie opinion of the medical officer and commander of the 
station, may not interfere with the proper performance of their du- 
ties, those injuries are to be fully described and carefully noted on 
all the descriptive lists containing thie names of those persons, that 
no improper claims for pensions may be subsequently allowed on 
account of such injuries. 

Article V. Recruiting officers shall cause the shipping arti- 
cles to be read to every person before such person signs them: nor 
shall they allow any person to sign such articles when intoxicated: 
nor shall they enter any person known to have been convicted of a 
felony; nor is any slave ever to be entered for the naval service, 
or to form a part of the complement of any vessels of war of the 
United States. 

Article VI. Recruiting officers shall make no advance of pay, 
nor give any bounty, except by express order from the secretary of 
the navy, or of the officer under whose orders he may be placed; 
and in all cases of making advances, the amount advanced to petty 
officers shall not exceed the amount authorised for seamen, and he 
is to take good security for the same, until the person receiving it 
shall have been duly received and mustered on board the receiving 
vessel, or some other vessel of the United States. 

Article VII. Recruiting officers shall not pay over any ad- 
vance money or bounty except to the person entitled to receive the 
same, nor until he shall be found fit for service; and they are, if 
possible, to induce the men to repair on board with their effects, 
and to receive the amount of their advance in clothing and other 
necessaries from the vessel, in which case the recruiting officer is 
to give the necessary information to the commander of the receiv- 
ing vessel, and will be excused from taking security. When an 
advance is to be made, the recruiting officer shall take care that 
each person furnishes himself with one good suit of thick clothing, 
two frocks or shirts, a pair of shoes, a pair of stockings, hat and 
handkerchief, as nearly of the navy pattern as possible, or as many 
of these articles as can be procured with two thirds of their advance, 
and that the articles are sent on board with them. 

Article VIII. Recruiting officers must produce receipts for 
the amounts advanced from the persons to whom they make ad- 
vances or pay bounty, a receipt for the individual from the com- 
manding officer of the vessel on board which tfi^y may be sent, and 
a certificate from the purser of such vessel that he has received lists 
showino^ the rating, the date of entry and term of service, and the 
amounts advanced to the individuals respectively, before he can 
receive credit for the advances made. 

Article IX. Recruiting officers shall not receive, without the 
sanction of the commanding officer of the station, more than one 
thousand dollars at any one time, which they may obtain by requisi- 



i 



OF THE U. S. NAVY. XV 

lions upon the navy agent when duly approved by the senior officer 
in command of th^ port or station, who shall not ap[)rove such re- 
quisition unless satisfied that the amount asked is required for the 
puljhc service. 

Article X. The recruiting officer must report weekly to the 
secretary of the navy, and to the commander of the station, the 
number of men he may have entered, and the amount of money 
remaining in his hands, as per form annexed and marked A. 

Article XI. No recruiting rendezvous is to be opened in the 
United States without the order or consent of the secretary of the 
navy; commanders of vessels may, however, when at places where 
there is no rendezvous, fill small deficiencies in their complement 
by entering men on board their vcvssels after the required examina- 
tion by medical officers; but no advance in money is to be given, 
and no allowance will be made to officers who enter men in this 
manner, as no responsibility or risk is incurred. 

J. K. Paulding. 

Navy Department^ \st July^ 1839. 

These regulations were drawn up, under the provisions of an 
act of Congress, dated May 19, 1832, by a board of captains in the 
navy, over which the late Commodore John Rodgers presided. It 
seems necessary to state this fact here, that it may not be supposed, 
the; iornorance displayed in the fourth article is characteristic of the 
medical officers. I fear it is a weakness in some of the grades in 
the navy to put no credence in the maxim non omnia possumus 
omnes or they would not expose themselves by writing on such 
medical topics as are purely professional. 

REGULATIONS 

For the Enlistment and Employ tneyit of Boys who may he en- 
tered to serve in the Navy until they arrive at the age of 
ticenty one years. 

In the enlistment of boys to serve until twenty-one years of age, 
as authorised by the act of Congress approved on the second day 
of March, 1837, none are to be entered who shall be under tliirteen 
or over sixteen years of age, and who, after careful examination 
and inquiry, shall not be deemed of sound constitution, good health, 
and free from all injuries, defects, or disease, which would be likely 
to render them unfit to perform the duties which are expected from 
them. 

No boy is to be entered who shall have been convicted of any 
criminal or disgraceful offence, or who shall have been sent to any 
house of correction or refuge, or other place of punishment. 

No advances are to be made by the recruiting officer to the hoys 
who may enter, or to their parents or guardians; but such clothing 
and other articles as may be necessary to their comfort, will be fur- 



XVI RECRUITIXG SERVICE 

nished upon the order of ihe commanders of the receiving vessels 
when they repair on board for duty. 

Whenever it can be ascertained that a boy wishing to enter has 
a parent or guardian whose presence can be obtained, such parent 
or guardian must sign his or her name in the proper cohimn of the 
shipping articles, as evidence of his or her assent to the enlistment. 

When the parent or guardian cannot be present, and can be 
referred to, they must sign duplicate certificates of assent in pre- 
sence of, and to be certified by some justice of the peace, or other 
magistrate, according to a form which will be furnished, one of 
which certificates must be transmitted to the secretary of the navy 
with the monthly reports of the recruiting officer, atid the other 
sent to the commander of the receiving vessel, to be transferred 
with the account of the boy from one vessel to another, whenever 
he is transferred himself. 

At the time of their enlistment they are to be rated as of the 
second or third class boys, according to their age, size, and qualifi- 
cations. 

The pay of boys of the third class shall be five dollars a month, 
and the pay of boys of the second class shall be six dollars a month. 
First class boys to receive seven dollars. 

When they cannot be attached to vessels in commission, they 
shall serve on board some one of the three large receiving vessels. 

They are to be supplif^d under the immediate direction of the 
commander of the vessel, with such articles of clothing and other 
necessaries as may contribute to their health and comfort: but, after 
the first supply, the amount which may be due to them is on no 
account to be exceeded; on the contrary, it is desirable that they 
should have as large an amount due to them as possible at the ex- 
piration of their service. 

They are not to be allowed fo draw the spirit part of their ration, 
nor to receive tobacco, but, on the contrary, they are to be en- 
couraofed, and required if possible, to abstain from the use of both. 

Whenever their rate of pay will allow it, they may allot to a parent 
such amount as shall not reduce the amount left for their own use 
below six dollars a month, nor more than one half their pay, when 
the half shall exceed six dollars a month. 

They sliall receive no part of their pay for their personal use 
nntil their discharge, excepting for clothing and necessaries as 
herein before provided, and occasional small advances in money, 
under direction of their commander, for the purchase of articles 
conducive to health, and for small expenses when permitted to go 
on shore on liberty; care must be observed, however, that this in- 
dulo^ence is not abused. 

Every commander of a vessel in which any of these boys may 
serve, shall cause them to be well instructed in reading, writing, 
and arithmetic, and to be employed on all such duties which they 
may be competent to perform, as may give them a thorough know- 



I 



OF THE U. S. NAVY. XVll 

ledge of seamanship, and best qualify them to perform the duties of 
seamen and petty officers. 

They are never to be required or permitted to attend as waiters 
or servants to the officers whenever there are other persons present 
who can properly perform those services. 

As an inducement for exertion and a reward for good conduct, 
all persons enlisted under this provision shall be eligible to promo- 
tion in the same manner as other persons of the ship's company, as 
vacancies may occur, and tfieir qualifications and conduct may 
merit: but all such promotion of boys shall be gradual and regular 
from third to second, and from second to first class boys, landsmen, 
ordinary seamen, seamen, and petty officers; and, on the other 
hand, they siiall also be subject to a reduction of rating, like all 
other persons, for neglect or misconduct. 

If they shall serve the full term of their enlistment in a manner 
satisfactory to their respective commanders, they shall, upon their 
discharge, receive a certificate stating the length of such service, 
and time served in each rating, and the opinion which is then en- 
tertained of their conduct, qualifications, and merits. 

Should they subsequently wish to re-enter the service, and pro- 
duce to the recruiting officer a certificate of good conduct while 
serving under their first enlistment, such officer shall, if men are 
required, and there shall be no objection on the score of health or 
other disqualification, give a preference to them over persons who 
have not previously served in the navy. 

Should any of them give decided evidences of the talents and 
conduct which might, by proper attention and cultivation, make 
them valuable boatswains, gunners, or masters for the navy,* they 
are to be specially reported to the secretary of the navy, and the 
commander of the vessel shall give all proper facilities to advance 
their instruction. 

At the expiration of their service, or at their regular discharge, 
they shall receive the amount which may then be due to them. 

These regulations to be subject at all times to such alterations 
and modifications as the secretary of the navy for the time being 
may deem necessary or expedient, and it is to be understood that 
they form no part of the agreement between the United States and 
the other parties, all of which are contained in the shipping articles. 
By order of the President, 

J. K. Paulding, 

Secretary of the Navy. 

Navy Department. 

It will be perceived that a very small part of these regulations 
apply to the duties of the medical officer; and even this small part 
is liable to several objections. The fourth article of the regulations 

* A proposition has been subrailted to Congress to appoint, in future, one 
fourth of the midshipmen of the navy from amongst the apprentices. 



XVIIl RECRUITING SERVICE 

for the recruiting service of the navy provides against enlisting any 
man who shall not " possess the power of seeing and hearing dis- 
tinctly ;" hnt it is very clear that a recruit might he short-sighted, 
might have lost one eye, the function of one ear, together with hoth 
external ears, and still he within the expressed terms and meaning 
of the retrulation. I do not douht, officers may he found who do 
not think the loss of one eye a disqualifying blemish, although 
such a loss, if sustained in the service, would be considered by them 
ample grounds for claiming a pension. 

He sliall have " no serious impediment of speech." 

The very slightest habitual impediment of speech is serious, 
because, under excitement, the difficulty increases, and almost 
always at times when rapid and unhindered utterance is required. 

A recruit may have "the free use of his muscles and joints," and 
still be very inefficient from inequality in the lensfth and size of his 
limbs, or from a disproportion between them and his body, or from 
tenuity. 

The article provides that the recruit must "be/recfrom external 
and ifiternal tumours." There are some external tumours which 
do not hinder an individual from the performance of all the duties 
of a thorough-bred seaman. I have myself served with more than 
one such man. Although external tumours may be always per- 
ceived by superficial inspection, with the exception of such as may 
be situated at the very portals of the digestive apparatus, internal 
tumours are not so readily discoverable, (except by post mortem 
examination.) unless they be of considerable size, or aneurismal in 
their character. Even extraordinary tact might fail to discover 
internal tumours, existing beneath vast conglomerations of intes- 
tine, where the subject is desirous of deceiving. 

" All cutaneous diseases" are set down as disqualifying causes; 
prickly heat, boils, and similar slight affections of the skin, although 
they cannot be generally considered as serious enough to reject a 
recruit, must still be included under the sweeping head of " all 
cutaneous diseases," and if the recruit be passed, the officer acts in 
disobedience to a very positive order, or at least, I presume, it should 
be so considered. 

^''Chronic ulcers" are certainly a disqualifying cause; but the 
article leaves the medical officer to decide for himself, how far ulcers 
of other kinds and characters than " chronic" are to be considered 
disqualifying or otherwise, affording opportunity for the effects of 
conflicting opinions to arise, in the form of appeals, surveys, re- 
ports, (fee. which, as they might be rendered unnecessary, only 
serve to lumber the archives of the department. 

The article requires that the recruit's " appearance" shall not 
" indicate" " the presence of, or danger from" ' dangerous diseases''^ 
from the effects of " intemperance or other causes.^' Is it fair to infer 
from this part of the sentence quoted, that the surgeon is expected 
to decide by external corporeal signs or otherwise, upon the 
recruit's liability to such diseases as may result fatally, whether 



flseases arise from * intemperance or other causes," including 
perhaps contagion and miasmatic influences or is he to decide 
upon the recruit's inherent and constitutional powers of escaping 
from and resisting the fatal termination of such perilous diseases as 
small-pox, acute fevers, (fee. in the event of heing attacked? 

" Nor if known to be subject to epilepsy or similar diseases." If 
the regulations had laid down the signs by which an individual 
may be known, or even suspected, " to be subject to epilepsy," and 
named some of the diseases luhich are similar to epilepsy^ they 
would certainly be of very great assistance to medical officers in 
the examination of recruits. As it is, the board which devised the 
regulations, lias carefully kept this most important knowledge to 
itself, but perhaps without being aware how very much in the dark, 
the profession, generally, is upon the subject. 

The above remarks are sufficient to show how unnecessarily 
vague the regulation is, and how little medical and surgical 
knowledge has been resorted to in digesting it. 

The regulation on the subject of discharging men from the navy- 
is very short, and requires all the illustraiion given to it by Mr. 
Marshall. The following rules are still in force. 

REGULATIONS 

For the discharge of persons from the Naval Service. 

No petty officer, seaman, ordinary seaman, landsman, or boy, is 
to be discharged, except for one of the following reasons, viz. 
expiration of term of service ; sentence, of a court-martial ; the 
tvriiten order of the commander of the fleet or squadron on a 
foreign station^ reciting the reasons; or unjitness for service, from 
causes arising subsequently to enlistment; and when a discharge 
is specially requested by the person himself, and is authorised by 
the secretary of the navy, or by the conjmander-in-chief on foreign 
service. When any petty officer, seaman, &c. is unfit for service, 
in the opinion of the commander of a vessel, he is, if within the 
United States, to report the fact to the senior officer in command; 
or, if on a foreign station, to the officer in command at the port at 
which he may be, who shall order a survey upon such person by 
two medical and three other commissioned officers, if there are so 
many on the station, who are to examine and report if unfit for 
service, and, if so, to state the nature and origin of the disability 
which report is to be transmitted to tlie secretary of the navy or the 
commander-in-chief of the fleet, as the case may be, for decision. 
Oct. 16, 1824. 

No discharge, excepting in the cases before mentioned, will be 
made from vessels or stations but by order of the secretary of the 
navy. 

As a general rule, seamen and marines will not be discharged by 
permission of the department before the expiration of their term of 



XX RECRUITING SERVICE 

service, (unless at the expiration of a lon^ cruise) without a settle- 
ment of their accounts, and leavings a balance of one month's pay 
by the former, and two month's by the latter, to cover the expenses 
of enlisting others in their place. The marine must also provide 
a substiruie. {Sept. 1831.) If they ever deserted, they will not 
be discharged (jmless ignominiously) till the expiration of their 
term. Dec. 1831. 

Malingerers in the army and navy of the United States are not 
very frequently met with. This may be attributable, in some 
measure, to the period of enlistment being limited, generally to 
three years, or five at most, instead of for life as in the British 
army. For this reason, the most dissatisfied soon learn to tolerate 
their situation, which is never in itself very unfortunate, and look 
forward with certainty to the day of their discharge, which is sel- 
dom so distant as to shut them off from the hope of being free 
from their engacrement, without incurring the risk of punishment 
or disgrace. Besides, there is no advantage gained by being dis- 
charged, except freedom from the terms of coiitract, the law not 
having provided any pro rata pension based upon length of service. 
(See page 156-7.) 

REGULATIONS 

Por the General Recruiting' Service of the Army of the United 

States. 

1. The recruiting service will be regulated at general head- 
quarters. 

2. There will be selected such number of field officers to con- 
duct the (general recruiting of the armv, as the interest of the service 
may require ; to whom all officers assigned to the general recruiting 
duty, will report for orders and instructions, according to the district 
to which they respectively may be attached. 

3. Selections for the recruiting service will be made without 
reference to the roster. The requisite number of recruiting officers 
will be determined at general head-quarters, and announced in 
general orders. The captains and subalterns for recruiting ren- 
dezvous will be selected by the colonels of regiments, unless 
otherwise directed. Officers on the general recruiting service are 
not to be ordered on any other duty, except by orders from general 
head-quarters. 

Duties of Superintendents. 

4. As soon as the recruiting stations are fixed on, the superin- 
tendents will notify the assistant commissaries of subsistence at the 
military posts nearest to their recruiting stations, to supply rations; 
and will make requisitions for funds on the adjutant general, and 
for clothing, camp equipage, arms and accoutrements, on the several 



OF THE V. S. NAVY. XXI 

departments to which these supplies appertain : forwarding their 
requisitions through the adjutant general, 'riiey will settle with 
said departments for the items of expenditure under their different 
heads, rendering the proper accounts and vouchers for the same, 
quarterly. 

5. Funds will be transmitted direct to each recruiting officer, 
on the monthly estimates of the superintendents. After the first 
remittance, estimates based on the monthly expenditures at each 
recruiting station, are to be transmitted by the several recruiting 
officers, at the close of the month, to their respective superin- 
tendents. 

6. Each superintendent will transmit to the adjutant general, 
monthly returns of recruits, and of the recruiting parlies under his 
superintendence, with a record of the names, the dates, and places, 
of all discharges, deaths or desertions, during the month : to be 
accompanied with the enlistment of each recruit enlisted within the 
month. He will transmit, in like manner, a muster roll of all enlist- 
ed men belonging to each recruiting station, including the names of 
all who may have joined since the last muster, or have died or 
deserted, been transferred or discharged, during the period embraced 
in the muster roll. 

7. Whenever, in his opinion, the good of the service requires 
that the recruits, or any part of them, should be sent to regiments, 
the superintendent will report to the adjutant general for instruc- 
tions in reference thereto. And whenever recruits are to be sent 
from a depot or rendezvous, to a regiment or post, a separate miister 
and descriptive rollj and a separate account of clothing of each 
detachment, will be placed in the hands of the officer ordered to 
conduct such detachment. A duplicate o( the muster and descrip- 
tive roll, will, at the same time, be forwarded to the adjutant gene- 
ral, by the superintendent, who will report the name of the officer 
assigned to the command, and the day of the departure of the 
detachment from the depot or rendezvous. 

8. A recruiting party will consist, as a general rule, of one com- 
missioned officer, one non-commissioned officer, and two privates. 
The recruiting parties will be selected at the principal depots, and 
care will be taken that none but suitable non-commissioned officers 
and privates are sent upon this duty. 

9. Music is not considered essential, but if musicians can be 
enlisted, the usual instruments will be supplied on requisitions pro- 
perly made, and the musicians may be retained at the rendezvous. 

10. Tours of inspection by superintendents, will be made only 
on instructions from general head-quarters ; nor will officers on the 
recruiting service be sent from place to place without orders from 
the same source. No expenses of transportation of officers will be 
admitted that do not arise from orders emanating from general head- 
quarters. 



XXll RECRUITING SERVICE 

Duties of Recruiting Officers. 

11. Success in obtaining recruits depends much on the activity 
and personal attention of recruiting officers. They will be careful 
not to allow any man to be deceived or inveigled into the service by 
the tricks or false representations of the soldiers or non-coinnriis- 
sioned officers of their parlies. None but men of good character, 
sound in body and mind, of good appearance, and well formed, and 
fit, in every particular, to perform the duties of a soldier, will be 
received. The nature of the service, the length of the term, the 
pay. clothing, rations, and other allowances to which a soldier is 
entitled by law, must be fully set forth and explained to every man 
who offers to enlist; and it will be proper, at the same time, to 
caution him to consider well before he enters into the contract with 
the government, as no man is wanted who does not come volun- 
tarily to the standard of his country. It will be equally proper to 
inquire whether the men who oiTer are married or single, as (hose 
with families are not to be enlisted without special authority from 
general head-quarters, obtained through the superintendent. This 
rule is not to apply to non-commissioned officers and soldiers who 
may re-enlist. If very young men present themselves, they are to 
be treated with great candour: the names and residences of their 
parents or guardians, if they have any, must be ascertained, and 
.their friends must be informed of their wishes to enlist, that they 
may make their objections or give their consent. 

12. After a man has been thus treated, and is willing to enlist, 
he may be allowed twenty-four hours to consider on the subject; 
the oath is, therefore, not to be administered to him until after that 
time, or even after two days, if the officer thinks he is not yet settled 
in his mind as to becoming a soldier : and if the recruit should see 
proper to cancel his engagement previously to taking the oath, he 
shall be at liberty to do so. 

13. Recruiting officers must be very particular in ascertaining 
the true age of a recruit. They are not always to take the word 
of the recruit, but are to rely on their own judgment for the ascer- 
tainment of his probable, if not actual age. 

14. It is in the power of any recruiting officer to make his party 
respectable and respected. He must, in his own person, set an 
example of that courteous and moral deportment which ought ever 
to characterise military men. A4)aternal care must be constantly 
extended to the recruits. Should they be sick, they will claim his 
particular attention, to see that they are not neglected, and that 
every essential comfort is procured for them. If the recruits are 
disposed to be troublesome to the neighbourhood, the officer must 
make it his duty to suppress every irregularity, and correct the 
disorderly, using first mild admonitions, which, if seasonably 
resorted to, will generally produce the desired effect. No instance of 
impropriety should go unnoticed. 

15. The cultivation of a good understanding with the people of 



I 



OF THE IT. g. NAVY. 



xxm 



the town, village, or neighbourhood, on the part of the recruiting 
officers, may tend much to advance the interests of the service, and 
often be the means of procurino good men : when a distant deport- 
ment, a frigid unbecoming hauteur, will not only repel the think- 
ing and worthy part of the community, but frequently defeat the 
very object for which an officer may have established his party in 
the place. 

16. The magistrate employed to swear in the recruits, may, if 
treated with due respect and confidence, be often instrumental in 
discovering the true character of those who may propose to enlist. 
It would then be well to ask his opinion and advice, as to the 
propriety of enlisting any individual brought before him to be 
sworn in. If it be generally known around the country that the 
enlistment is on fair terms, that the pay is sufficient to induce 
respectable young men to enter the service, and that none others 
will be received, the character of the army will be held in due esti- 
mation, and the objections to join it, will, in a great measure, be 
removed. 

17. The personal appearance of the men is highly important. 
The recruiting officer will give his particular attention to this sub- 
ject. He will see that the men under his command are neat in their 
appearance, and that they are made to wear their military dress in 
a becoming manner. 

18. These instructions are thus particular, that the officers 
interested may know that it is not desirable to fill the ranks, unless 
it can be done fairly and Iionourably, and with men of suitable 
character. 

19. All free white male persons, above the age of 18, and under 
35 years, being at least 5 feet 6 inches high, who are " effective 
able-bodied citizens of the United States,^^ native or naturalized,* 
sober, and free from disease, may be enlisted. This regulation, so 
far as it respects the height and age of the recruit, shall not extend 
to musicians, or to those soldiers v/ho may re-enlist into the service. 

20. No person under the age of 21 years, is to be enlisted with- 
out the written consent of his parent, guardian, or master, if he 
have any. 

21. Before a minor, as such, can be enh'sted. the written consent 
of his parent, guardian, or master, must be first obtained, and 
appended to the enlistment. If the minor assert that he has no 
parent, guardian, or master, the recruiting officer, in order to 
prevent imposition on the public, as well as to guard himself against 
the penalty of the law. sliall procure the best authentication of the 
fact, which he will in like manner append to the enlistment. 

22. Enlistments must, in all cases., be taken in duplicate, one of 
which the recruiting officer will transmit to the superintendent for 
the adjutant general ; the other he will forward direct to the second 



' Naturalized cilizens must speak and understand the English language. 
Circular to Sup. Rec'g. Service, August 16/A, 1834. 



KXIV RECRUITING SERVICE 

auditor of the treasury, as a voucher iu the settlement of his 
accounts. The enlistments will he filled up in a fair and le^^ihle 
hand, and the real name of the recruit he ascertained and correctly 
spelled. Each enlistment will be endorsed as follows : 

No. . 
A B 

enlisted at 



January , 183-, 
By Lt. C D , 

Regiment of . 

The number to correspond with the names alphabetically ar- 
ran2:ed. 

23. Whenever a soldier re-enters the service, the officer who 
enlists him will endorse on the enlistment, next below his own 
signature, "second (or third) enlistment," as the case may be, 
together with the name of the regiment and the letter of the com- 
pany in which the soldier last served. 

24. The filling up of, and endorsement on, the enlistment, will 
be in the hand writing of the recruiting officer, or done under his 
immediate inspection; as evidence of which he will sign his name 
on the margin. 

25. As there is no bounty allow^ed to recruits, they are to be 
mustered and paid with the recruiting parties, and those at the 
depots are to be regularly mustered and paid in the same manner 
as other soldiers. 

26. After a man has enlisted, the recruiting officers will have his 
hair cut according to the military fashion, and cause him to be well 
washed from head to foot; after which he will have him dressed in 
the clothing furnished by government; properly fitted to his person, 
and cause his citizen's dress to be disposed of. No soldier is to be 
allowed to keep in his possession any articles of clothing, other 
than such as he receives from government, and belong to his mili- 
tary character. 

27. It is the duty of the recruiting officer to see that the quarters 
for the men are comfortable, and supplied with such conveniences 
and bedding as are allowed in barracks; that the provisions are 
good, and regularly supplied ; that they are properly cooked and 
economised ; and that there be regularity in the messes, and due 
decorum preserved at all times. 

28. In order to make a fund for obtaining the necessary equipage 
for the table of his men, the recruiting officer will be permitted to 
commute for money with the assistant commissary, the rations due 
the party, and not consumed, believing that by proper management 
and economy, the rations allowed will more than suffice; out of 
which fund the table furniture and other comforts are to be pro- 
cured. For the accountability of this fund, the principles laid 

own under the head of council of administration, will apply. The 



I 



OF THE U. S. ARMY. XXV 

instruction of the recruits will commence from the moment of 
enlistment, as well to provide aj^ainst the vice of idleness, as to 
qualify them to join some regiment. In general, and under favour- 
able circumstances, two months ought to be sufficient to make them 
acquainted with the lirst duties of police and the schools of the 
soldier and company in infantry tactics. 

29. Every officer commanding a recruiting party where there is 
no quartermaster, will procure the necessary transportation, forage, 
fuel, straw, and stationary, taking: the requisite vouchers; but no 
non-commissioned officer or soldier is to be allowed to become a 
contractor for the supplying of any article which may be requirccj 
of the quartermasters or subsistence departments. 

30. The necessary blank enlistments, muster rolls, printed re- 
turns and forms, will be furnished by the adjutnnt-general, to all 
officers employed on the recruiting service, on their requisitions ; 
they are, therefore, prohibited from using any other forms or blanks 
whatever. 

31. Recruiting officers in charge of rendezvous will transmit to 
the proper officers the following rolls, returns, and documents : 

To the Super in tendeyU. 

32. A vionthly return of recruits and of the recruiting party, 
accompanied with the enlistment of every recFuit enlisted within 
the month. 

33. Regular muster rolls of the permanent recruiting party and 
of the recruits;^ also muster and pay rolls, in duplicate, for pay; 
which latter may be sent direct to the nearest paymaster, when 
authorised by the superintendent. 

34. Muster and descriptive rolls of every detachment of re- 
cruits ordered to the principal depot. If the recruits l)e ordered to 
proceed from the rendezvous direct to join any regiment or post, 
these rolls will be made in duplicate, one of which will be delivered 
to the officer placed in charge of the detachment, and the other 
sent to the superintendent. 

35. An account of clothing issued to each man belonging to the 
detachment of recruits ordered to principal depots, or to regiments 
direct. 

To the Quartermaster-Getieral. 

36. A quarterly return of clothing, of camp equipage, and of 
all public property in his charge ; a copy of each to be sent to the 
superintendent. 

To the Ordnance Department. 

37. A fjuarterly return of arms, accoutrements, ammunition, and 
of all ordnance stores. 

9 c mar 3* 



XXVI RECRUITING SERVICE 



To the Second Auditor of the Treasury. 

38. Recruiting accounts, and accounts current, monthly, accom- 
panied with one set of enhslments. 

39. Abstract of continjjent expenses for recruiting, monthly, to 
be forwarded within the three first days of the monih ; copies of 
which abstracts will be transmitted to the superintendent. 

40. Whenever an officer is relieved or withdrawn from the re- 
cruifincr service, he will pay over the balance of any unexpended 
rpcruiling funds in his possession, to the officer appointed to suc- 
ceed him, or to the paymaster, if no officer be so designated; and 
if there be no paymaster or other proper officer convenient to receive 
such balance, the amount will be deposited, to the credit of the 
treasury of the United States, in some bank in which the public 
moneys are kept. In either case, the officer will forward to the 
second auditor the evidence of the disposition he may make of the 
funds, and report the fact to the adjutant-general and to the super- 
intendent; or to his colonel, if on regimental recruiting service. 

Regimental Recruiting Service. 

41. Every colonel or commandant of a regiment will endeavour 
to keep his regiment up to its establishment; and, for that purpose, 
will obtain the necessary funds in the manner prescribed for the 
superintendents of the general recruiting service, by requisitions on 
the adjutant general, at Washington. 

42. At each station occupied by his regiment, or any part of it, 
the colonel will designate an officer to attend to the recruiting for 
his regiment, which designation will not relieve such officer from 
his ordinary duties. The officers thus designated will be furnished 
by the colonel with the necessary funds, on estimates and requisi- 
tions made on him, (in the manner prescribed for the officers on 
the general recruitinsf service,) and they will, with the approbation 
of the commanding officer of the station, enlist all suitable men, and 
make all the disbursements incidental to such enlistments, render- 
ing their accounts monthly for settlement, in the manner prescribed 
for officers on the general recruitins: service. The colonel will 
transmit to the adjutant-general a monthly return of recruits, with 
an enlistment of each man enlisted within the month. 

Inspection of Recruits. 

43. The superintendent or commanding officer will cause a 
minute and critical inspection to be made of every recruit received 
at a depot, three days after his arrival ; and should any recruit be 
found unfit for service, or to have been enlisted contrary to law or 
regulations, he shall assemble a " board of inspectors," to consist of 
the three senior officers present for duty, and the senior officer of 



4 



rr OF THE U. S. ARMY. XXVil 

the medical staff, to examine into the case. If the board decide to 
reject the recruit, and recommend his discharo:e, the reasons there- 
for will be stated in detail, in a special report to the adjntant-crene- 
ral, which report will be accompanied with the surgeon's certificate 
of disability. 
44. Every detachment ordered from a principal depot to any 
regiment or post, shall, immediately precedint^ its departure, be 
critically inspected by the superintendent or commanding officer 
and surgeon. Should it be necessary to assemble the board of in- 
spectors, and any recruit be then rejected; the report and surgeon's 
certificate in the case will be forwarded to the adjutant-general, as 
above prescribed. 

45. Every detachment of recruits received at a military post or 
station shall be carefully inspected by the commanding officer and 
surgeon, on the fourth day after its arrival; and if, on such inspec- 
tion, any recruit, in their opinion, be unsound or otherwise defec- 
tive, in such degree as to disqualify him for the duties of a soldier, 
then a board of inspectors will be assembled to pass upon the re- 
cruit; and should he be rejected by the board, the required report 
in the case, with the surgeon's certificate, will be transmitted to the 
adjutant-general, by the commanding ofiicer of the post, for the 
decision of the general-in-chief. 

46. Whenever a recruit is rejected, the board will report whether, 
in its opinion, the disability or other cause of rejection existed or 
originated before or after the date of his enlistment; and, if the 
former, whether, with due care and proper examination., such dis- 
ability might not, in its opinion, have been discovered by the 
recruiting officer and examining surgeon, at the time the recruit 
enlisted. 

47. As the decision of boards of inspectors may often involve 
the recruiting oflicers in pecuniary liabilities, by being required to 
refund to the United States the amount of any loss occasioned by 
the dischargfe of a rejected recruit, the board will, in all cases, make 
the proper discriminations, and always state whether the want of 
due examination of recruits at the time of enlistment be attributable 
to the recruiting officer or examinin*? surgeon, or to both; and, as 
far as may be practicable, to state the amount with which either 
ought, in its opinion, to be chargeable. 

48. Boards of inspectors for the examination of recruits will be 
composed of the three senior officers present on duty in the line, 
and senior medical olficer of the army present; and when organ- 
ised at tlie principal depot, the superintendent, or, in his absence, 
the commanding officer, will preside; if at a military post, the 
commanding officer will preside at the board of inspection. 

49. When a recruit is rejected and discharged in consequence of 
the non-observance of the recruiting regulations by the recruiting 
officer and examining surgeon, they shall be charged with the 
amount of the bounty and clothing which the recruit, so rejected, 



XXVm RECRUITING SERVICE 

may have received from the public, to be deducted otit of the pay 
and emoluments of such officers. 

Recruits sent to Regiments. 

50. An officer intrusted with the command of recruits ordered 
to rt^orjnieiTts, will, on arriving at the place of destination, complete 
"the muster and descriptive roll" furnished him at the time of set- 
ting out, by inscribins: in the column of remarks the time at)d place 
of any death, desertion, apprehension, or other casualty that may 
have occurred on the route; and present the same, properly signed, 
to the commanding officer of the regiment or post, together with 
the "account of clothing" issued to each recruit. He will furnish 
the adjutant-general and the superinlendet, each, with a descrip- 
tive roll of such meti as may have' deserted, died, or been left on 
the route from any cause whatever. He will forward, in like man- 
ner, a special report of the execution of liis orders, and will notice 
all circumstances worthy of remark w4)ich may have occurred on 
the march ; he will also report the condition and strengtli of the 
detachment when turned over to the commanding officer, as well 
as the day of his arrival at the post. 

Duties of Examinivg Surgeons} 

51. Medical officers, whose duty it may be to examine recruits, 
will be particular in causing each recruit to be stripped of all his 
clothes, and to be made to move about and exercise his limbs in 
their presence, in order to ascertain whether he has the free use of 
them; that his hearing and vision are perfect; that he has no tu- 
mours, ulcerated legs, rupture, or chronic cutaneous affections, or 
other infirmity or disorder which may render him unfit for the active 
duties of a soldier, or be the means of introducing disease into the 
army; and it shall be their duty to ascertain, as far as practicable, 
whether the recruit is an habitual drunkard, or subject to convul- 
sions of any kind, or has received any contusions or wounds in 
the head, which produce occasional insanity. With any of these 
defects, the man is to be refused as unfit for service. It will also 
be the duty of the examining surgeon to ascertain whether the re- 
cruit has had the variolous or vaccine affection; and if he have 
not, to see that he be vaccinated immediately after enlistment, or as 
soon thereafter as practicable. It is the duty of the recruiting offi- 
cer to be ahvays present al the examinations of the recruits by the 
examining surgeon. 

52. No citizen surgeon shall be employed to inspect or attend 
recruits at any post or place where there is a surgeon or assistant 
surgeon of the army. Where there is more than one recruiting 
party in a place, the senior officer will engage a surgeon to attend 
the whole. 

' See Routine examination, page 31. 










OF THE U. S. ARMY. XXIX 

53. Surgeons will attend at the rendezvous at least twice a day, 
at such hours as the recruitingr officer shall establish. 

Depots for Collecting and Instruct hig" Recruits. 

54. For the purpose of collecting and instructing the recruits 
enlisted at the several rendezvous, there will be established depots 
at convenient points. 

55. To each depot there will be assigned a suitable number of 
officers to command and instruct the recruits. The recruits, as 
they arrive, are to be thoroughly inspected and examined as to 
their titness for the ser.vice, by a board of inspectors. 

56. It will be determined at general head-quarters what number 
of recruits may be required for each arm, and, on instructions from 
the adjutant-general, the number will be assigned accordingly. 

57. The recruits are to be dressed in uniform like the other 
troops, according to their respective arms, and are to be mustered 
and paid in like manner. They are to be regularly drilled in the 
infantry tactics, from the school of the soldier to that of the batta- 
lion, and in the exercises of the field and garrison pieces. Duty is 
to be done according to the rules of service as set forth in the regu- 
lations. 

58. In order to furnish the requisite number of musicians for 
the several regiments, such of the recruits as are found to possess a 
natural tafent for music may, besides th'^ drill, be instructed on the 
fife, bugle, drum, or other military musical instrument. 

59. As it is desirable to give encouragement to the recruits, and 
to hold out inducements to good conduct, the commanding officer 
of the depot may promote such of them to be lance-corporals and 
lance-serjcants. as exhibit superior military tact and requisite quali- 
fications, not exceeding the proper proportion to the number of re- 
cruits at tlie depot. These appointments will be announced in 
orders m the usual way, and will continue in force until they join 
their regiments, unless sooner revoked. No allowance of pay or 
emoluments is to be assigned to these appointments; they are only 
to be considered as recommendations to the captains of comjianies, 
and colonels of regiments, for the places in which they may have 
acted ; they are nevertheless to be treated with all the rejspect, and 
to have all the nuthority, which may belong to the stations of Ser- 
jeant and corporal. 

60. The rules and articles of war are to be read to the recruits 
every week, after the inspection, particularly so much thereof as 
relates to the duties of non-commissioned officers and soldiers. The 
commandinof officer is to see that each recruit is furnished with a 
'' soldier'' s hook,^ and that his r.ccounts ore regularly entered, and 
that the book is ])roperly filled, according to the directions con- 
tained in it. .The sutler of tlio post is to supply these books, and 
receive payment for the same from the recruits at their first pay- 
ment. 



XXX PENSIONS. 

61. Whenever recruits are permitted to go abroad, they are io 
be dressed in their full uniform, and to appear in a neat, soldierly 
manner: every reasonable indulgence ought to be extended towards 
them, and they ought at all times lo be treated with kindness and 
propriety. 

62. The recruits are not to be put to any labour or work which 
would interfere with their instruction, nor are they to be employed 
but as soldiers, in the regular duties of garrison or camp. 

Recruits in Depot at Military Posts. 

63. When recruits are received at a military station, the com- 
manding officer will place them under the charge of a commissioned 
officer, whose duty it will be to see that they are comfortably quar- 
tered, kindly treated, and well taken care of, and that they are pro- 
perly drilled and instructed in their duties as soldiers. They are 
not to be put on any fatigue duty or workins: parties, except for the 
ordinary police, and then only by regular detail, in common with 
the other men of the garrison. 

64. When recruits are ordered from a post, or are attached to 
companies, the commanding officer of the post will be responsible 
that the regular descriptive rolls and account of clothing and pay 
of each recruit are furnished to the captain or other officer who is 
to receive the recruits. The original muster and descriptive roll of 
each detachment, with remarks showing the final disposition of each 
recruit, and the regiment and letter of the company to which at- 
tached, v/ill be signed by the commanding officer, and forwarded 
to the adjutant-general. 

By command of Major-Genehal Macomb, Commanding in 
chief. 

R. JONES, 
Adjutant- GeneraL 



PENSIONS. 

All officers, non-commissioned officers, musicians, and privates, 
whether of the regular forces, militia, volunteers, rangers, or sea- 
fencibles, if disabled by wounds or otherv/ise, while in the service 
of the United States since the close of the revolutionary war, may 
be placed on the invalid pension-list, at such rate of pay and under 
such regulations as shall be directed by the President of the United 
States for the time being: Provided^ always, that the rate of com- 
pensation for such wounds or disabilities shall never exceed, for 
the highest disability, half the monthly pay received by any com-: 
missioned officer at the lime of being so wounded or disabled; and 
that the rate of compensation to non-comuiissioned officers, privates, 
and musicians, shall never exceed eight dollars per month. 



PENSIONS. 



XXXI 



similar provision has been made for all classes of officers, men 
and boys employed in the navy of the United Slates. 

The followino; regulations and leofal opinions are taken from 
"An abstract of the several pension laws now in force, for invalid, 
revolutionary, or other pensioners, tocrether with the constructions 
which fiave been placed upon such laws by the war department or 
the attorney-general, and the forms necessary to be followed by the 
applicants for pensions under the several laws," compiled by /. L. 
Edwards^ Cominissioner of Pensions, in conformity with a reso- 
lution of the house of representatives, October 9, 1837. 

Description of disability which entitles the claimant to a pension. 

Washington, April 6, 1815. 

The secretary of war havinof, in a letter of the 4th instant, de- 
sired my opifiion on the true meaning of the first clause of the four- 
teenth section of the act of congress, passed on the 16th of March, 
1802, for tixinorthe military peace establishment, I have the honour 
to submit the following: 

The words of the clause are, "That if any officer, non-commis- 
sioned officer, musician, or private, in the corps composing the 
peace establishment, shall be disabled by wounds or otherwise, 
while in the line of his duty in public service, he shall be placed 
on the list of invalids of the United States, at such rate of pay, and 
under such regulations, as may be directed by the President of the 
United States for the time being." 

The question made is. In what other way than by wounds mn^t 
the disability have been incurred, to entitle the party to the pay 
provided ? 

The words of the section are not quite so distinct as to remove 
all grounds for diversity of opinion; yet, unless some liberality in 
their interpretation be allowed, it is to be feared that the benignant 
intentions of the law might be in danger of being curtailed or frus- 
trated. The expression "or otherwise" is placed in contradistinc- 
tion to wounds. In its primary signification, it may be taken to 
import a disability brousfht on by the direct and apparent agency 
of accidents or inflictions from the hand of God or man, happening 
to the party while in the immediate and obvious discharge of his 
duty, but which could not, with technical propriety, be denothinat- 
ed wounds. Instances of the kind may readily be conceived: as if 
an officer, while exercisinof his men on a hot day, should receive a 
stroke of the sun ; a musician, while obeying an order to sound his 
bugle, should rupture a blood-vessel; or a soldier, while working 
upon fortifications, should dislocate a limb: in such and similar 
cases that may be imagined, it cannot be doubted but that the disa- 
bility would be brought on in a mode to meet the alternative stated 
in the act. It will be to enlarge it but a little more, and, as it is 
conceived, to uphold its jrenuine and humane spirit, as well as its 
legal sense, to say that the connection between the inflicting agent 



XXXll PENSIONS. 

and consequent disability need not always be so direct and instan- 
taneous. It will be enough if it be derivative, and the disability 
plainly, thoui(h remotely, the incident and result of the military 
profession. Such are the changes and uncertainties of the military 
life; sudh oftentimes its toils as well as its hazards, that tlie seeds 
of disease, which finally prostrate the constitution, may have been 
hidden as they were sown, and thus be in dans^er of not being 
recognised as first causes of disability in a meritorious claim put 
forth for the bounty of the act. It would not, I think, l)e going too 
far to say that, in every case where an officer or private loses his 
health while in the service, to such a degree as to be disabled from 
performing his duty any more, lie is contemplated, prima facic^ as 
an object of this charitable relief from the legislature. I feel more 
doublfiil in fixing, by any undeviating standard, what is meant by 
being in the line of his duty. Upon this point 1 should presume, 
however, that every officer in full commission, and not on furlough, 
must be considered in the line of his duty, although, at the moment, 
no particular or active employment is devolved upon him. The 
same of a soldier who is kept in pay; for it is presupposed of both 
the one and the other that they are at all times prepared for duty; 
and it is surely of indispensable obligation upon them to keep them- 
selves detached from other pursuits, so as to be ready, at a moment, 
to answer any call emanating from those who may be authorised to 
command them. Perhaps a voluntary absence, too long continued, 
on the part of an officer, from his station, might form an exception, 
so as to exclude th& idea of his having been in the line of his duty 
during any accident or sickness palpably proceeding from causes 
while he was away. But the officer who, by reason of marches in 
damp or cold weather, or who, from living in a garrison exposed to 
marshy exhalations, finds, even at some interval, his constitution 
broken down by rheumatism, or enfeebled by the constant recur- 
rence of fevers, is surely as just an object of this humane stipend 
at the hands of government, as he who may have had his arm sh;:t- 
tered by a bullet. Others may also be supposed, in which the per- 
formance of mililary duty, in some of the various shapes it mny be 
made to assume, has ])roved the original, though it may not be ad- 
mitted as the proximate, cause of the disability superinduced. 

In the discretion which is vested in the President, a sufficient 
guard is established that an interpretation of the act, such as is in- 
dicated by the foregoing remarks, will not open the way to abuse. 
If the loss of health should have proceeded from careless or irregu- 
lar habits in the party much more if from vicious ones; or if he 
brought to the service or ranks of his country a constitution already 
impaired, or rankling with the germ of maladies that afterward do 
nothino more than ripen into activity; these will form occasions 
for caution, or for an entire exclusion from the bounty, when the 
executive duty comes to be performed in the way congress have 
pointed out. A claimant who was suspected not to stand in lights 
altogether meritorious or innocent, must expect that his application 



h 



PENSIONS. XXXllI 



would me3t a severe scrutiny, and certain rejection at the discovery 
of any thiriof that could taint it with unfairness or imposition. But 
if the sound construction he not at least as broad as I have sup- 
posed, we shall be at some loss to know what meaning the words 
'inferior disabilities," used in the concluding sentence of the four- 
teenth section, were intended to convey. 

It may, perhaps, be said that, to earn the bounty, the disability 
should have been incurred by accidents or sickness peculiar to the 
employments of military men, and such as it may reasonably be 
supposed would have been avoided in other occupations. But it is 
conceived that this would prove a va;j;ue and deceptions rule of in- 
terpretation. With what safety or with what certainty could it be 
applied? The soldier asleep in garrison may suddenly, when he 
awakes, tind his eyesiijht spne, without being- sensible himself, or 
without its bein.2: imia^ined by others, that the predisposinjr and 
latent cause of his affliction was imbibed in ascendinij the Missis- 
sippi months before, while a hot and vertical sun was flashin<r its 
fires around him. Another may linirer in consumption, the conse- 
quence of perhaps a sliofht cold in the bei^inninis:, but of which the 
labours and hardships of his life may never have allowed him an 
opportunity to get rid; and a third may be bed-ridden under a 
palsy, which the chanije of habits and aliment after his enlistment 
may have been the chief thouijli occult causes in producinij. It 
would be easy to multiply, indefinitely, such illustrations applicable 
alike to the condition of officers and men. 

I would retnark, as :ivin;r strength to the principles which I 
suppose the le^^islature to have had in mind in framing this section, 
that we find it recorded in the Digest of Justinian, that "he who 
has hired his services, is to receive his reward for the whole time, 
if it has not been his fault that the service has not been performed." 
So, too, by the maritime law it is well understood, that if sickness 
or disability overtakes a seaman, which was not brouefit on by 
vicious or unjustifiable conduct, he is entitled to his full wages for 
the voyage: nor does it make any difl^erence whether it came on 
during the time he was on actual duty, or was merely accidental 
while he continued in the service. These principles have been 
sanctioned by time, and it is hoped that it will not have been 
deemed out of place to advert to the analogies they hold up. 

Richard Rush, Attorney/ General. 

" Total disah'ilUij^^ understood to apfly to the nature of the disa- 
hility^ and not to the extent^ in certain cases. 

Department of War. October 23, 1828. 

Sir, In answer to your inquiry of this morning, I unhesitatingly 

give it as my opinion that the words "total disability," as used in 

the proviso of the act entitled ^' An act regulating the payments to 

invalid pensioners," passed March 3, 1819, were intended as de- 



XXXIV PENSIONS. 

script! ve only of (he nature or character, and not of the extent^ of 
those (Jisiibilities; the biennial repetition of the proof of which is 
declared to be nnncessary. 

The object of the enactins: clanse of this law, which contains hut 
one section, is to oblio^e pensioners to exhibit proofs of the state of 
their respective disabilities at given periods, with a view to orradnate 
the amount of the pension by the extent of the disability for the 
ti:ne beinaf. 

The object and spirit of the proviso is to save those pensioners^ 
who are placed on the list in consequence of disabilities which are! 
in their nature permanent and unchangeable, the trouble and ex-j 
pense of a useless repetition of proof; and they equally embrncej 
cases (technically speakins:) of partial and total disability. Th<" 
word "total," therefore, as here used, in connection with -'disa-l 
bility," should not be taken in its technical sense, as indicating that! 
extent of disability which entitles to a full pension; but in its ordi-' 
nary sense, and conveying the same meanin^j^ as if the word perfect^ 
or complete^ or permanent^ (for each of which it is often used as a 
substitute,) had been employed. The proviso, indeed, explain^. 
itself, by adding: to the words "total disability" the following exem- 
plification of its meaninof, viz: "In consequence of the loss of ai 
limb, or other causes which cannot, either in whole or in part, bei 
removed." 

If a soldier loses an arm or a leg, he presents a case of total dis-j 
ability, which entitles him to a full pension; and he need not re- 
peat his proof, because the record shows that the disability is suclij 
as cannot, in the nature of thins^s, be removed. But if a man lose 
only two fingers or two toes, it is a case of partial disability, and he 
receives only a part pension. It would, however, be equally idle 
and absurd to require him, in this case, to prove, every two years, 
that his fingers or toes have not grown out again, as it would, in 
the other, to oblige him to show that his arm or leg has not been 
restored. 

P. B. Porter. 

James L. Edwards, Esq. Pension Office. 

iSurg eons' affidavit. 

[Date.] 
It is hereby certified that , a in the com- 

pany of , in the regiment of the United States 

, is rendered incapableof performing the duty of a soldier, 
by reason of wounds or other injuries inflicted while he was actually 
in the service aforesaid, and in the line of his duty, viz: 

By satisfactory evidence and accurate examination, it appears that 
on the day of , in the year , being 

engaged , at or near a place called , in the 



i 



PENSIONS. XXXV 



State (district or territory) of , he received in 

his* 

And he is thereby not only incapacitated for military duty, hut, 
in the opinion of the undersigned, is^ > disabled from 

obtaininof his subsistence from manual labour. 



> Surgeons, 



Application for an increase of pension. 

It is hereby certified that , formerly a of 

Captain 's company, in the regiment of , who, 

it appears by the accompanying (a) , was placed on the pen- 

sion-roll at the rate of dollars per month, on account, as he 

states, of having received a {b) while 

in the line of his duty, and in the said service, on or about the 
day of , in the year , at a place called , in 

the state (or territory) of , is not only still disable d in conse- 

quence of the said injury, but, in myopin on, is entitled to 
more than lie already receives as a pensioner, being disabled to a 
degree amounting to (c) of a total disability. 

Surgeons, 



' Here give a particular description of the wound, injury, or disease; and 
specify in what manner ii has affected the applicant, so as lo produce disa- 
bility in the degree stated. 

* N. B The blank in the last line but one is to be filled up with the pro- 
portional "degree" of disability ; for example, " three fourths," "one half," 
"one third," &c. or "totally," as the case may be. 

IJ^ The magistrate who may administer the oaths to the surireons must 
certify that they are reputable in their profession ; and the official character 
and signature of the magistrate must be certified by the proper officer under 
his seal of office. 

Mode of authenticating papers. In every instance where the certificate 
of the certifying officer who authenticates the papers is not written on the 
same sheet of paper which contains the affidavit, or other paper authenti- 
cated, the certificate must be attached thereto by a piece of tape or small 
riband, the ends of which must pass under the seal oi" office of the certify- 
ing officer, so as lo prevent any paper from being improperly attached to the 
certificate. 

If the claimant is within thirty miles of an army surgeon, he must obtain 
his testimony. 

() The p'jnsion certificate issued from the war office, which must be re- 
turned to the commissioner of pensions. 

{b) Here give a particular description of the wound, injury, or disease, 
and specify in Avhat manner it has affected the applicant, so as to produce 
disability in the degree stated; and show its origin and progress. 

(c) N. B. The blank in the last line is to be filled up with the propor- 
tional '"degree" of disability; for example, "three fourths," "one half," 
"one third," &c. or "totally," as the case may be. 



3fXXVi PliNSIONS. 



Membfir of congress mat/ certify as lo the character of a surgeon. 

War Department, June 17, 1834. 
Tho rule ofNovetiiber 17, 1831, is heroby so aiiiended as to allow 
ihe certificate of a member of congress, as to the character of a sur- 
geon or pfiysician, to be received in a case where the pensioner 
cannot conveniently obtain llie certificate of the agent for paying 
pensions. 

Lewis Cass. 



Rules of evidence relative to invalid pensioners. 

Any officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private, who 
has been wonnded or disabled since the revolutionary war, while 
in the line of his duty in the actual service of the United States, 
whether ho belong to the military establishment or to the militia, or 
to any volnnleer corps called into service under the authority of the 
United States,' may be placed on the pension-list of the United 
States, at such rate of compensation, and under such regulations, 
as are prescribed by the act entitled "An act to provide for persons 
who were disabled by known wounds received in the revolutionary 
war," passed iVpril the tentfi, one thousand eight hundred and six. 
In substantiating such claim, the following rules and regulations 
shall be complied with, that is to say: all evidence shall be taken 
on oath or affirmation, before the jado^e of the district, or one of the 
judcres of the state or territory^ in which such claimant resides, or 
before some person specially authorised by commission from said 
judge. Decisive disability, the effect of a known wound or injury, 
received while in the actual service and line of duty, must be proved 
by the affidavit of the commanding officer of the regiment, corps, 
company, ship, vessel, or craft, in which such claimant served, or 
of two other credible witnesses to the same ellect, setting forth the 
time when, and place where, such known wound or injury v/as 
received, and particularly describing the same. The nature of such 
disability, and in what degree it prevents the claimant from obtain- 
ing his subsistence, must be proved by the affidavit of some reput- 
able physician or surgeon, stating his opinion, either from his own 
knowledge and acquaintance with the claimant, (or from an exami- 
nation of such claimant on oath or atBrmation, which, when neces- 
sary for that purpose, shall be adtninistered to said claimaiU by said 
judore or commissioner; and the said physician or surgeon, in liis 
affidavit, shall particularly describe the wound or injury from 
whence the disability appears to be derived. Every claimant must 
prove, by at least one credible witness, that ho continued in service 
durinof the whole time for which he was detached, or for which ho 



o 



Act 25ih April, 1S08, sec. 4. Act 18th April, 1814, sec 3. 







PRNSIONS. XXXVII 

en2:ao:ecI, unless he was clischarjyec!, or left the service in conse- 
quence of some deran2:enient of ihe armj^, or in consequence of Iiis 
disability resio^ned liis comnjission, or was, after {lis disabilriy. in 
captivity or on parole; and, in the same manner, must prove his 
mode of life and employment since he left the service, and the 
place or places where he has since resided, and his place of resi- 
dence at the time of taking such testimony. Every claimant shall, 
by his affidavit, give satisfactory reasons why he did not make ap- 
plication for a pension before, and that he is not on the pension-list 
of any state; and the judge or commissioner shall certify, in writ- 
ing, his opinion of the credibility of the witnesses, whose affidavits 
he shall take, in all those cases where, by this act, it is said the 
proof shall be made by a credible witness or witnesses; and, also, 
that the examining physician or suro^eon is reputable in his pro- 
fession. The said judge of the district, or person by him com- 
missioned as aforesaid, shall transmit a list of such claims, accom- 
panied by the evidence, affidavits, certificates, and proceedings had 
thereon, in pursuance of this act, noting particularly the day on 
which the testimony was closed before him. to the secretary for the 
department of war, 6oc. And it shall be the duty of the judge or 
commissioner aforesaid to periTiit each claimant to take a transcript 
of the evidence and proceedings had respecting his claim, if he shall 
desire it, and to certify the same to be correct. An increase of pen- 
sion maybe allowed to persons already placed upon the pension-list 
of the United States, for disabilities caused by known wounds re- 
ceived during the revolutionary war, in all cases where justice shall 
require the same: Provided, That the increase, when added to the 
pension formerly received, shall in no case exceed a full pension. 
Every invalid making application for this purpose, shall be exa- 
mined by two reputable physicians or surgeons, to be authorised by 
commission from the judge of the district where such invalid re- 
sides, who shall report in writing, on oath or affirmation, their 
opinion of the nature of the applicant's disability, and in what de- 
gree it prevents him from obtaining a subsistence by manual labour; 
which report shall be transmitted by said physicians or surgeons to 
the secretary for the department of war. 

Pension Office, 24//i June, 1840. 

Sir In answer to Doctor Ruschenbcrger's inquiry respecting 
" the several rules, regulations, &c. relating to pensioning sailors/' 
I fiave to state, that the applicant must prove that he is perma-' 
nently disabled by injury received in the line of duty in the naval 
service. 

If disabled by disease, he must prove that the disease was exclu- 
sively caused by peculiar exposure in the performance of some 
particular act of duty in the service. The proof of having been 
disabled in the line of duty is to be made by the certificate of the 
surgeon of the ship on board of which the injury was received 



XXXVIll NAVAL PENSIONS. 

approved by the commander and stating the dale of the injury, 
with all the ciicanistnnces of the case. 

If the commander and surgeon are dead, the certificate may be 
supplied by any commissioned officer of the ship. 

When such proof has been furnished, the secretary of the navy 
will order two naval surgeons to examine the applicant, and report 
the degree of permanent disability in his case, v/hether total, ^, i, i, 
Sec. according to their opinions. 

After an examination of all the proof, and merits of the case, the 
rate of pension will be fixed by the department, not to exceed half 
pay for total disability. But, in cases of extraordinary merit, the 
department is authorised to allow any rate of pension not exceeding 
full monthly pay. 

A pension, exceeding one fourth of his monthly pay, will not 
be granted to any person who continues in the service. And no 
pension will be allowed for an injury received twenty years before 
date of the application, unless full record proof of all the facts shall 
be produced. 

These rules and regulations, may, in any case, be dispensed with 
by the department, at the discretion of the secretary of the navy. 

Dr. Ruschenberger's communication is herewith enclosed. 
I have the honour to be, very respectfully, 
Your obedient servant, 

J. L. Edwards. Comm.issioner of Pensions. 
Hon. James K. Paulding, Secretary of the Navy. 

Under these several regulations and opinions, the surgeon is left 
without any guide to estimate the proportional rate of disability in 
any case ; and hence, it is possible that very ditTerent opinions 
might be obtained by the same applicant for a pension, particulaily 
in the minor cases. Although we should find a strict uniformity of 
opinion among surgeons and physicians in setting down the loss of 
both arms as a total and permanent disability, claiming the highest 
rate of pension, it is not certain they would agree as to the rate 
which should be paid for the loss of the great toe, loss of one or 
more fingers, loss of all the teeth by violence, anchylosed joints, 
(fcc. It is well known that diflferent persons, under the same cir- 
cumstances, evince different capability of labouring for themselves, 
or, in other words, so great is the moral energy of some men that 
what is a very serious loss to others, is to themselves merely an 
inconvenience. But it would scarcely be just to estimate the rate 
of pension upon such considerations. The opinion should be based 
on a well digested scale of disabilities, which might be formed for 
the military and naval service by a board of medical officers. Such 
a scale would aflford at least an approximation to uniformity in the j 
payment of pensions in like cases. Until such a scale shall be 
digested, considerable assistance will be afforded to the surgeon in 
forming his estimate in the following 



NAVAL PENSIONS. XXXIX 



Pensioning Regulations, proposed by the Board of Revision. 



r 

K Article I. Persons making application for pensions in conse- 

B qiience of injuries received in the service should forward a 

B cerliticafe, as per form marked, from the surj^eon of the vessel or 

B yard where the injury was received, countersigned by the com- 

B mandintr officer, stating particularly the circumstances under 

B which, and tlie time when, the injury was received the nature 

B[ and extent of the injury, and the extent of the disability which it 

^m may have produced. If the applicant is unable to forward such 

certificate, lie must forward the best evidence which he can collect 

in relation to the circumstances, and particularly as to the name of 

the vessel, and her commander, in which, and the time when the 

injury was received. 

Article II. After a pension shall have been granted to any 
person in consequence of his disability, it may be paid to him 
quarterly, on his presenting himself to the person who may be 
directed to make the payments; but if the payments are to be 
made to any other person on behalf of the pensioner, it shall only 
be done upon a regular power of attorney, made before, and attested 
by some justice of the peace or notary public, accompanied by a 
certificate from some commission officer of the navy, judge of the 
United States court, district attorney, or collector of the customs, 
that the pensioner was, to his knowledge, living at the time when 
the payment demanded became due, or that he had deceased on 
some given day since the preceding payment. 

Article 111. Before any pension will be granted, the secretary 
of the navy will, if he should think proper, order an examination 
of the applicant, in addition to the certificate of the surgeon and 
commander, to determine more satisfactorily the degree of disability 
produced by the injury received; and he may, at any subsequent 
period, direct similar examinations to be made, if he has reason to 
believe that the disability has been diminished or increased. When 
it can be conveniently done, these examinations shall be made, and 
the certificates g^iven by two medical officers and a captain or a 
commander of the navy. 

Article IY. The injuries received shall be classed in the fol- 
lowing manner, viz. 

1st. Injuries which produce total disability in the claimant to 
contribute by his own labour to his support, and which requires 
the aid of another to attend to his person. 

2d. Injuries which render the claimant unable to contribute to 
his own support, but leave him able to attend to his own person. 

3d. Injuries which leave the claimant unable to contribute more 
than one fourth to his own support. 

4th. Injuries which leave the claimant unable to contribute more 
than one half to his own support. 



xl 



NAVAL PENSIONS. 



5th. Injuries which leave the claimant unable to contribute more 
thjiti tfiree fourths to his own support. 

Those of tiie 1st class may receive as a pension the full amount 
of their pay. Those of the 2d class seven ei;;hths of iheir pay. 
Those of the 3J class five ei<rhths of iheir pay. Those of the 4th 
class three cio^hths of their pay. Those of the 5lh class one ei<jhtli 
of their pay. When the injury received does not diminish the 
power of the individual to support himself as much as one fourth, 
he will not be considered entitled to any pension. 

Articlpj V. When any applications are made for pensions, in 
consequence of the death of any person who may have been killed, 
or died from wounds received in action, they must state the name 
of the person for whose death the claim is made, the ru\me of the 
vessel, and the action in which the death or the wounds occurred, 
and the time when the death took place, if subsequent to the action. 
The applicants must also forward legal proof of their right to 
claim a pension, as the widow or child of the deceased, according 
to the provisions of the law, and of the age or ages of the child or 
children, who may be the claimants. 

Article YI. After a pension shall have been 2:ranted, the widow 
rrfust make affidavit before some justice of the peace or notary pub- 
lic, at each period when payment may be due, that she is still 
legally entitled to receive the same, and present it to the person 
authorised to make the payment. When payments are to be made 
to children, their guardian must make affidavit before some justice 
of the peace or notary public, that such children are still living, 
and under the age required by the law. 

Article VII. When pensions shall be granted for wounds 
received in action, they shall not be withdrawn, although the pen- 
sioner may be employed afterwards in the naval service, provided 
the disability continue; but when they shall have been granted for 
injuries received otherwise than in action, they shall be suspended 
whenever the pensioner shall be employed in any branch of the 
naval service with a compensation equal to the pay he was enti- 
tled to receive when he was injured; and when his compensation 
shall not be equal to his pay when he was injured, the amount of the 
pension granted to him shall, if necessary, be diminished, so that, 
during such employment in the naval service, it shall not increase 
his compensation beyond his pay when the injury was received. But 
the pension may be renewed on his leaving the naval service, ac- 
cording to the nature and extent of the disability. 

Article YIII. The conviction of a pensioner of any felony, 
or any wilful attempt to deceive the government, by any false pre- 
tences, declarations, or certificates, in relation to his claim for a 
pension, shall be sufficient authority for withholding it, and shall 
operate as a forfeiture of any pension to which the guilty person 
may otherwise have been entitled. 



REMARKS ON NAVAL PENSIONS. Xli 

The first class of injuries under the proposed regulations will 
embrace men who have lost both arms, or both eyes, or who are 
palsied in their limbs, and perhaps some others. 

The second class will include those who have lost both legs 
below the knee, or who have anchylosed knee joints, or who have 
lost one leg, a foot, or a hand, or the use and control of one of these 
members; or who have incontinence of urine, in consequence of 
mechanical injury of the urinary organs; or who have hernias of 
considerable size. The other three classes will include a great 
variety of injuries, in estimating which a great deal of judgment 
and experience are requisite. It should be borne in mind, that the 
sailor has an avocation which he can exercise under private patron- 
age, when able-bodied and in health ; and from the nature of his 
profession he is rarely capable of gaining a livelihood on shore by 
pursuing only a part of his profession after having been disabled by 
injuries or wounds. For this reason a liberal construction should 
be adhered to in classing his disability, and it should always have 
reference to answering the question, How far does his injury inca- 
pacitate him from the exercise of his profession? With soldiers the 
case is somewhat different, for the reason that they generally have 
some mechanical trade; or, previous to entering the public service, 
have been able to gain a living as labourers, farmers, gardeners, or 
mechanics. Perhaps it would be proper, in all cases, in estimating 
disability, to take into consideration the length of service, and 
whether the individual had borne a good character, discharged his 
duties with ability, or distinguished himself in action or otherwise. 
If these circumstances were known universally amongst the men 
to have weight in awarding pensions, it would serve as a stimulus, 
in many instances; to good conduct, and thus assist in the preser- 
vation of discipline. 

To preserve the popularity of the service, and make it desirable, 
under the voluntary system, the only one admiipible under our 
institutions, every thing in relation to its advantages or rewards as 
respects pensions should be definite, certain, and stable as possible; 
and further, the laws and regulations should be well known to all 
interested, and rigidly adhered to by those who administer them. 
The adoption of such a system, as far as practicable, would tend 
to diminish the scarcity of men for the public service ; for men will 
always go where their interests lead, when they have the oppor- 
tunity, which all have in the United States. 

Besides the benefits of the pension laws, men who serve in the 
navy have provided for them an asylum, situated on the eastern 
bank of the Schuylkill river, near Philadelphia, as a reward 
for long and faithful services. There they are furnished with 
excellent food, 2^ood clothes, and comfortable accommodations. 
The advantages of this noble institution, I fear, are not siifliciently 
known and appreciated amongst our seamen. There is at present 
only a few within its walls ; but it may become the happy home of 
hundreds of weather-beaten sailors and marines, where they may 

4 mar* 



Xlii REMARKS OW NAVAL PENSIONS. 

pass the eveninor of their lives, free from the storms and vexations 
of life, and proud in feeling^ that thfiir services have gained for 
them a substantial reward in the gratitude of their country. The 
institution is still in its infancy^ but it^ in spite of the unfortunate 
location of the edifice, may become, if its present distinguished 
governor^ be enabled to carry out his liberal views, the blessing 
and pride of the navy. Let us indulge the hope that it will one day 
contain all our naval trophies^ the portraits of our illustrious com- 
manders, pictures of naval engagements, a museum and library, 
where the war-worn and storm-blemished veteran will find a 
resource to relieve his mind, in the contemplation of all that is 
noble and dear in the memory of his profession. 

At present, all those who have faithfully served for twenty years, 
or who are entitled to pensions for wounds, injuries, or meritorious 
services, are received upon relinquishing their pensions while in 
the asylum. 

Owing to several circumstances, which have been duly consi- 
dered in the proper place, it is thought a change is called for in 
the existing pension laws of the navy. With this view, the board 
of revision of the rules, regulations, and laws of the navy, propose 
trife following in place of certain existing laws relating to pensions: 

Art. 103. B3 it enacted, (fee. that all money accruing, or which 
has already accrued to the United States, from the sale of prizes, 
shall be and remain for ever a fund for the payment of pensions to 
the oflicers, seamen, and marines, and to the widows and children 
of such officers, seamen, and marines, as may be entitled to receive 
the same, by the provisions of this act; and if the said fund shall 
be insufficient for the purpose, the public faith is hereby pledo;ed to 
make up the deficiency; but if it should be more than sufficient, 
the surplus shall be applied to the making of further provision for 
the comfort of tlie disabled officers, seamen, and marines, and for 
such as, though not disabled, may merit, by their bravery or long 
and faithful services, the gratitude of their country. 

Art. 104. The said fund shall be under the management and 
direction of the secretary of the navy, for the time being, who is 
hereby authorised to receive any sums to which the United States 
may be entitled from the sale of prizes, and employ and invest the 
same, and the interest arising therefrom, in any manner which he 
may deem th(3 most safe and advantageous; and it shall be the 
duty of the said secretary to lay before Congress annually, in the 
first week of their session, a minute statement of his proceedings 
relative to the management and disbursement of said fund. 

Art. 105. Every officer, seaman, or marine, disabled in the line 
of his duty while subject to the laws for the government of the 
navy, shall be entitled to receive for life, or during his disability, a 
pension from the United States, under such regulgfiions as have 

* Commadure James Biddle. 



1 



I 




REMARKS ON GRANTING PENSION CERTIFICATES. xliii 

en, or may be, established and approved by the President of the 
nited States, and according to the nature and degree of his disa- 
bihty, not exceeding; the amount of his pay at the time he was 
disabled. 

Art. 106. Any officer, seaman, or marine, who shall be killed, 
or die by reason of a wound received in battle, while subject to the 
laws for the orovernment of the navy, leaving a widow, such widow 
shall be entitled to receive half the pay to which the deceased was 
entitled at the time of his death, which allowance shall continue 
during her widowhood; and in case of no widow, or of the inter- 
marriage of such widow, tiie same allowance shall be made to any 
child or children of such officer, under eighteen years of age, until 
they shall arrive at the a^e of eitrhteen years: provided, that the 
said half-pay shall cease on the death of such child or children. 



In adding to the very valuable work of Mr. Marshall the rules 
and res^ulations relatinor to the enlistinir, discharging, and pension- 
ing men in the navy and army of the United States, I hope I have 
added something to its interest. The excellence of the work itself 
leaves no room for commentary from me; and, in conclusion, I 
would respectfully ask the attention of my professional brethren, 
both in and out of the service, to its pao:es. Here the young sur- 
geon will find assistance in the discharofe of what he will discover, 
upon being called to inspect recruits and furnish certiticates of dis- 
ability, to be an important, arduous, and often difficult duty; and 
the civil practitioner, who is without experience in this branch of 
the profession, will be better qualified after reading this volume, 
without overlooking the interests of any one concerned, to decide 
upon the kind of certificate he should furnish to those who may 
claim pensions, or asic to be excused from military duty in the 
militia, or to receive the advantages of any of the various beneficial 
societies on account of bodily disabilities. 

It has happened more than once, tliat surgeons, from not having 
reflected upon the importance of the subject, have yielded their own 
judgment too far to the representations and bare statements of the 
interested party, and granted certificates which they would have 
been afterwards glad to withdraw, upon finding that their profes- 
sional opinion had been instrumental in transferrin^: thousands of 
dollars from the pension fund to the pockets of an individual whose 
claims were exaggerated. When an officer comes forward to claim 
a pension f)r an injury received thirty years before, who in the 
mean time has been actively employed by the government, receiv- 
ing the while full pay and emoluments, without any one even sus- 
pecting him of sufl^^rino- in his health, I say, there may be some- 
thing in the preference of such a claim, wearing very much the 
aspect of fraud; and if the surgeon who certifies in the case be not 
very careful, he may learn, when too late, that he has unwittingly 



XHv REMARKS. 

lent his name to assist in defraudino: his country. I have been 
told of a distinguished officer who received, at one payment, the 
amount of thirty years' pension, under the law of March, 1837, for 
a mere flesh wound, altlious^h he had been in the receipt of full 
pay the whole time. And I have heard of another case, where the 
surireon who granted the certificate was anxious to withdraw it, on 
findiu<r that it proved equivalent to a draft for eight thousand dol- 
lars, and a stipend of six hundred dollars a year for life; on reflec- 
tion, he discovered that he had certified to a higher rate of disability 
than the circumstances warranted. 

In consequence of the occurrence of cases like those alluded to, 
surgeons have been charged with beins: so easy as to yield acqui- 
escence to the influence of rank, or of personal friendship; and 
some who are grieving over the cojnparatively small remnant of 
the pension fund, which has been almost absorbed by the act of 
March, 1837, have insinuated, in pretty strong terms, that the fund 
has been robbed through this facility of medical men. But this is 
a partial and unjust view, and entertained by those who deny the 
propriety of paying for wounds, hurts, or injuries, although they 
may entail great misery at times, enfeeble the general health, and 
abbreviate the life of an individual, without impairing, to a great 
extent, his capability of discharging duty of a particular character. 
For example, all the duties of a commander of a ship, or of a com- 
mander-in-chief of a squadron, may be most efficiently discharged 
by an individual who has lost a hand: If this loss have been sus- 
tained in the public service, should the country refuse to pay for 
the hand because the individual continues to discharge his duties 
without it? Should not the effects of such a loss fall, if possible, 
rather upon the country than upon the individual? 

It is the practice of the British government to pay for all wounds, 
hurts, and blemishes, which do not incapacitate individuals for ser- 
vice, what is termed "smart money," which is less than the amount 
paid under the name of pension. Nelson received a consideration 
for the loss of an arm, which loss did not interfere with the victory 
of Trafalgar. I can find no good reason why an officer who has 
lost a hand in action, and, in spite of the loss, continues to render 
efficient service, should not receive more than he who comes un- 
harmed from the conflict. And I may add, it is to be regretted that 
the acceptance of such bounty should be accompanied by the oblo- 
quy and harsh reflections which have been occasionally cast upon 
those who receive pay and pension at the same time. The fault, 
if there be a fault, rests in the liberality of the law, and not with 
those who honestly receive its benefits. Nor should surgeons who 
conscientiously discharge their duties under the provisions of the 
pension laws, be charged with being accessory to plundering the 
pension fund. 



PART I. 

ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



Enlistment. The British army is recruited by voluntary en- 
listment. Recruits enlist with parties actinor under the immediate 
control of the commanding officer of the regiment in which a man 
eno^ao^es, or with recruiting parties which are placed under the 
command of the inspectin^: field officer and subdivisional officers 
of a recruiting district. Enlistment for limited service was abo- 
lished or discontinued by authority on the 18th April, 1829, conse- 
quently all the men who now enlist engage to serve an unlimited 
period, or till they shall be legally discharged. Every person 
who has received enlisting money from a soldier employed in the 
recruiting service is considered as having voluntarily enlisted. 
After enlistment, a recruit is to be taken to a military medical 
officer, or should there not be one stationed within a convenient 
distance, he is to be brought to a civil medical practitioner, for the 
purpose of being examined as to his fitness for the army; when, 
if found fit, a certificate to that purpose is inserted on the attesta- 
tion. If a recruit be found unfi.t, he is dismissed, and the person 
who enlisted him loses the enlisting money; but should he be ap- 
proved, he may, after the lapse of twenty-four hours from the time 
he enlisted, be brought before a magistrate for attestation, and if he 
then admits that he enlisted voluntarily, the magistrate puis to him 
the several questions comprehended in tfie schedule or attestation, 
viz. respecting: his name, parish, age, trade, (fcc, and particularly 
whether he is willing to be attested. {Vide Note I.) Should his 
answer be in the affirmative, the magistrate reads to him the 
articles of war relating to mutiny and desertion, administers the 
oath of allegiance, and he is then a soldier. The attestation is 
signed by the recruit, and also by the magistrate; and if the former 
refuses to take the oath, he may be imprisoned until he does so. 
The ceremony of attestation must, however, take place within four 
days, Sunday not included, from the date of enlistment ; and if a 
7 b 1 mar 



'4 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

recruit during any of these days prior to attestation declares before 
a magistrate his disinclination to enter the service, and returns the 
enlisting nnoney, with twenty shillings of smart money, and the 
amount of the subsistence he may have received, he must be forth- 
with discharged. "Any officer who shall act contrary to the pro- 
visions, of the mutiny act in regard to the enlisting and attesting 
of recruits, shall, upon proof thereof before a court martial, be 
cashiered, and disabled from holding any civil or military office or 
employment in his majesty's service." Government allows one 
guinea for the enlistment of each recruit, who is finally approved 
at the regiment for which he enlisted, namely, 15s. to the serjear 
and party, 5s. to the subdivisional officer, and one to the clerk 
the attesting magistrate. Each recruit receives a nominal bounty 
of L.3, of which sum only 10s. are paid him in cash, the remain- 
ing L.2, 10s. being reserved to purchase clothes and other articles 
of equipment. 

In the French service a remplagant, or substitute, for a conscript, 
commonly receives from the principal from 1500 to 2000 francs, 
(L.60 to L.80.) The substitutes are generally men who have been 
in the army as volunteers or conscripts, and who sell themselves 
for seven years to conscripts, who, having been drawn, prefer pay- 
ing the above amount to serving in person. Neither volunteers nor 
conscripts receive any bounty upon becoming soldiers in France, 
but they are provided with the requisite equipment. 

There are nine recruiting districts in the United Kingdom, 
namely, London, Coventry, Bristol, Leeds, Liverpool, North Bri- 
tain, (including Glasgow and Edinburgh.) Dublin, Cork, and 
Newry. The staff of each of these districts consists of an inspect- 
ing field-officer, an adjutant, a paymaster, and a staff sur^^eon. The 
elements of stature and period of life in recruits fall peculiarly 
under the superintendence of the military branch of the service, 
while those of health and general efficiency are usually in a great 
measure left to the decision of a medical officer. According to the 
existing regulations, soldiers are not entitled, to reckon service 
under eighteen years of age as a claim for a pension, and conse- 
quently recruits commonly allege that they have reached that 
period of life. The minimum age of recruits for regiments serving 
in India is twenty years, but for all other regiments no specific age 
is fixed by authority. Provided a youth have attained the mini- 
mum height, he is eligible for enlistment, however young he may 
be. "Growing lads" are sometimes enlisted, although they are 
under the 7ninimum height. In the French army the minimum 
age of volunteers is eighteen, and of conscripts twenty years. The 
maximum age at present in the British army is twenty-four years 
for regiments of the line, and thirty for the army of the East India 
Company; but as there is seldom any mode of obtaining informa- 
tion respecting the age of recruits, except from themselves, it is not 
to be presumed that the statements in that respect are always very 
accurate. Sometimes the inspecting field-officer refuses to approve 



STATURE OF RECRUITS. O 

of a man whom he thinks above the maximum age, unless a suit- 
able certificate of birth be produced. 

Stature of Recruits. A certain degree of stature is indispensa- 
bly required to qualify men for being soldiers, partly on account of 
appearance, but chiefly because stature is considered a tolerably 
accurate measure of physical power. A due degree of strength is 
essentially necessary to enable a soldier to surmount the fatigue 
incident to a military life. Within a certain range of stature men 
may be deemed equally efficient, but soldiers who are either much 
below the mean height, or much above it, are not so well fitted for 
all the duties of the army as men of a medium heis^ht. Very tall 
men are said to be deficient of enercry, and comparatively incapable 
of enduring fati2:ue. Men of a medium height are commonly very 
efficient soldiers, being often as powerful as tall men, and generally 
more able to undergo severe exertion. The minimum height of 
recruits for infantry regiments is usually 5- feet 5^ or 5 feet 6 inches, 
for light cavalry corps 5 feet 7, and for heavy dragoons 5 feet 8 
inches. The mean height of the men of an infantry regiment is 
commonly about from 5 feet 7 inches to 5 feet 8 inches ; in the 
heavy dragoons it varies from 5 feet 9 to 5 feet 10 inches. The 
minimum height of soldiers in the French army is 5 feet 2 inches. 
The duty of ascertaining the height of recruits, which is one of 
considerable importance, belongs to the staff of regiments and the 
staff-officers of recruitins: districts. During the month of June, 
1819, an order was issued to examine recruits without shoes and 
stockings, probably in consequence of frequent imposition. The 
position of a recruit when he is measured ought to be exactly that 
of a soldier under arms, with his eyes looking straight before him. 
Sometimes when a recruit is very anxious to be approved, he en- 
deavours to appear taller than he really is, and various artificial 
means have been successfully adopted for that purpose, such as 
pasting buff leather on the soles of the feet, or concealing a small 
piece of wood under the hair of the head. At other times, when he 
wishes to be relieved from his engagement, he endeavours to appear 
below the minimum heiofht, by reducing his apparent stature. This 
object is occasionally eflfected by flexing the head forwards a little, 
protruding the abdomen, and slightly bending the knees. By these 
means, and by removing the thick cuticle which covers the sole of 
the foot, and cutting the hair closely to the head, a man may ap- 
pear to be half an inch or perhaps a whole inch lower than he 
reallyis, without being detected by an inexperienced measurer. Many 
intelligent and experienced officers have been imposed upon in this 
way. When the slightest suspicion of fraud exists, the recruit should 
be placed under the standard in a state of nudity. But the best 
means of obviating deception in regard to stature, is to measure a 
suspected person extended on his back. To ascertain how much 
the horizontal length of a man exceeded his perpendicular height, 
I measured 52 recruits with the same standard, and the following 
statement is the result : 



b 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

Horizontal length exceeded the perpendicular height in 5, by ^ of an inch, 

5, 2- do. 

13, i do. 

14, I do. 

15, no appreciable difTcrcnce. 



which is a mean difference of ,-3^ of an inch that a man is taller in 
a horizontal than in a vertical position. 

Weight. The chief physiological qualities which reqnire to be 
attended to in the selection of recruits for {ho. arny, are a due de- 
cree of stature and weight, a suitable aire, sound liealth, a perfect 
condition of the organs of sense, particularly the eyes and ears, 
with aptitude of the limbs. A man may have the requisite stature, 
but unless he has also a certain weight, he may not he able to per- 
form the duties of a soldier, or to endure the labour incident to an 
army, and, with the view of appreciating his efficiency, T would 
recommend a recruit to be weighed. Hitherto it has been the usage 
to estimate the strength of recruits by the eye, as was formerly tlie 
case in regard to stature. Tiie weight is perhaps a better criterion, 
as it affords a definite standard, which is of great importance when 
recruits are to undergo more than one inspection, and by different 
examiners. According to the investigations of Quetelet, the mean 
weight of males at 

17 years of age is 116 lbs. 9 ounces avoirdupois. 

18 do. do. 127 9h do. do. 
20 do. do. 132 7k do. do. 
25 do. do. 138 12^ do. do. 

Consequently, when athletic men are required, recruits should not 
be approved who weigh less than the medium weight of the respec- 
tive ao;es at which they may be enlisted. 

Magnitude of t lie C.'icst. To ascertain the magnitude or circum- 
ference of the chest of a recruit, is a good method of appreciating 
his physical power. In popular opinion, which is prob.ibly well 
founded, persons who have large capacious chests are capable of 
executing: much labour, and of enduring great fatigp.e. \n as far 
as the efficiency of troops is concerned, it would perhaps be as ad- 
visable to fix a minimum circumference of the chest for recruits 
as a minimum, height. 

For the purpose of ascertaining the mean girth round the chest 
of men of different heio-hts, Dj". Balfour, assistant staff-surc^eon. 
while he was acting in London as district surgeon, measured 1439 
recruits, and constructed the following very interesting table. 

It will be observed that the average magnitude of the chest was 
about 32i inches, the minimum of the whole number was 28 inches, 
and the maximum 37 inches. The magnitude of the chest does 
not appear by the above table to increase in the same ratio as the 
height, but the numbers examined above 5 feet 8 inches are too [qw 
to warrant a physiological conclusion on the subject. But it is the 



J 



STATURE OF RECRUITS. 



minimum^ not the maximum magnitude, which it is of importance 
to settle, as is done in regard to the height of recruits. Perhaps no 
recruit should be approved whose chest does not measure 30 or 31 
inches, even at the minimum height. 

Table showing tlie average circumference of the chests of the 
recrnits examined in the London District, from, the 13th Octo- 
ber, 1 838. to the I2th January, 1839, inclusive, arranged accord- 
ing to the height of the recruits. 





























Height of the 


Town Recruits. 


Coiiiitrv 


Recruits. 


Agg[regate. j 


No. 


Aver. 


No. 


Aver. 


No 


Aver. 


No. 


Aver. 


No. 


Aver. 1 No. 


Aver. 


recruits. 


exa- 


size of 


found 


size or 


exa- 


size of 


found 


size of 


exa- 


size of 


found 


size of 




miii 


chest. 


fit. 


chest 


inin 


ch(st. 


fit. 


che?t. 


mjn. 


chest. 


fit. 


chest. 


F. r. F. I. 




tn dec. 




[n.dec 




(n.dec. 




In dec 




In. dec 




In dec 


5 5 to 5 6 


83 


32.44 


53 


32.54 


23 


32.77 


20 


32.66 


106 


32.51 


73 


32.57 


5 6 to 5 7 


425 


32.03 


279 


32.19 


233 


3;>.71 


197 


32.80 


658 


32.15 


476 


32.44 


5 7 to 5 8 


223 


32.24 


127 


32.53 


103 


33.11 


93 


3313 


326 


32.52 


220 32.79 


5 8 to 5 9 


1:2 


32.57 


79 


32.81 


56 


33,00 


47 


33.18 


178 


32.70 


126 .32.93 


5 9 to 5 10 


58 


32.76 


33 


32.59 


28 


33.75 


23 


33.57 


86 


33.08 


56 33 00 


5 10 too 11 


44 


32.54 


27 


32.94 


13 


33.61 


8 


.33.81 


57 


32.77 


35' 33.14 


5 11 to 6 6 


20 


32.92 


10 


33.00 


3 


33.67 


2 


35,00 


23 


33.02 


12 33.33 


and upwards. 


4 


.32.38 


1 


32.00 


1 


33.00 


1 


33.00 


5 


32.50 


2 33.50 




979 


32.06 


609 


32.22 


460 


32.91 


391 


32.99 


1439 


32.47J1000, 32.6G| 



Class of the population fi^om y)hich recruits are procured. The 
following statement' is intended to show the state or condition of 
life of recruits, and the relative ratio of each trade or occupation 
among men who enlist at Dublin. A table of this kind, embracing 
all the recruits enlisted for the whole army during a series of years, 
would be very interesting. 

This statement shows that 64 per cent, of the recruits en- 
listed in the Dublin districts, during the three years specified, were 
husbandmen and labourers, and, consequently, considerably more 
than one-half belonged to the agricultural class. Whether a higher 
relative ratio of men belonginor to this class enlist than of artisans, 
I am unable to state. The question is an interesting one, but I 
have not access to adequate statistical materials to enable me to 
arrive at a satisfactory conclusion on the subject. 

Agricultural labourers generally enter the army in consequence 
of some family difficulty or discord, or some scrape in which they 
are involved, or from want of work ; and it is alleged by competent 
authority that they become the most trustworthy soldiers. Recruits 
who are enlisted in the manufacturing districts and large towns 
are frequently idle and dissolute, and require all the means in the 
power of their officers to correct the intemperate and vicious habits 
in which they have indulged, and to enforce subordination. 



' See Table, next page. 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



Statement of the condition of life^ or occupations of the Recruits 
inspected at the Dublin recruiting depot, during the years 
1825, 1826, and 1827. 



Condition of life or occupation 




Examined. 




Ratio 


of the Recruits. 










per 1000 
examined. 


1825. 


1826. 


1827. 


Total. 


Apothecaries and druggists, ' 


3 


5 


11 


19 


1 


Bakers, 


59 


. 25 


21 


105 


8 


Basket-makers and brush-makers, 


9 


3 


3 


15 


1 


Blacksmiths and armourers, 


116 


55 


52 


221 


18 


Boys, 




. . . 


26 


26 


2 


Bricklayers and masons, 


23 


26 


15 


64 


5 


Bijtchers, 


35 


31 


IS 


84 


7 


Carpenters, 


107 


68 


48 


223 


18 


Chandlers and merchants. . 


5 


7 


2 


14 


1 


Clerks, ...'.. 


144 


133 


131 


408 


31 


Coachmakers, . . . . 


2 


5 


5 


12 


1 . 


Coopers, 


30 


18 


4 


52 


4 


Cotton-spinners, . . . , 


11 


15 


7 


33 


3 


Dyers, 


7 


13 


6 


26 


2 


Farmers, 




23 


30 


53 


4 


Gardeners, . . . . . 


3 


26 


11 


40 


3 


Gentlemen, . . . . 


4 


12 


7 


23 


2 


Hairdressers, . . . . 


9 


5 


1 


15 


1 


Hatters, 


11 


9 


3 


23 


2 


Husbandmen and labourers, 


4414 


2368 


1487 


8269 


645 


j Millers and millwrights. 


10 


9 


7 


36 


2 


Miners, . . . . . 


9 


J5 


9 


33 


3 


Nailers, 


36 


14 


7 


57 


4 


Painters, 


61 


3 


10 


74 


5 


I Printers, 


6 


33 


3 


42 


3 


'Saddlers, 


22 


12 


8 


42 


3 


Sawyers, 


10 


19 


6 


35 


3 


Schoolmasters and land-surveyors 




2 


10 


12 


1 


Servants, 


361 


268 


192 


821 


65 


i Shoemakers, .... 


252 


194 


112 


558 


43 


1 Slaters and stone-cutters, . 


6 


15 


17 


38 


3 


' Surgeons, 




4. 


2 


6 




Tailors, 


132 


128 


53 


313 


24 


Tanners, 


1 


11 


1 


13 


1 


Tinsmiths, 


8 


9 


6 


23 


2 


Weavers, 


300 


351 


163 


814 


63 


1 Forty-two other trades, 

i 

I 


23 


86 


94 


203 


16 


6229 


4018 


2588 


12835 


1000 



I believe it is very generally observed, that, wherever manufac- 
tures and commerce prevail, so as to be a source of opulence to the 
people, the military profession is held in very low estimation. 
Wealth, with domestic comfort, discourages any enterprise which 
is attended with danger and unpertainty. A very poor man may 
gain something by enlisting, and he has little or nothing to lose. 






CLASS FROM WHICH RECRUITS ARE PROCURED. 7 

It is remarked by Professor Millar, and indeed the fact is notorious, 
that "when the son of a tradesman enlists in the army, he is looked 
upon as a proflio^ate who has been deluded to his ruin, and, if he 
cannot be bouorht off, he is oriven up for lost." The amount of the 
pay and contingent recompense of a soldier is less than the mean 
wages of the manual labour classes of the population, and a very 
inadequate return for the dangers, the toils, and the privations to 
which they are exposed. Dr. Jackson says, "the desire of money 
to buy bread fills the military ranks;" and I may add, the compa- 
ratively idle, dissipated, and adventurous life of a soldier seems to 
have a very seductive influence over the young and inconsiderate. 
Necessity, not an ardent liking for the profession, compels many to 
enlist, they having lost their character, or contracted habits of idle- 
ness or improvidence, which more or less exclude them from the 
better paid walks of civil industry, by which means they are con- 
strained to devote themselves to a military life. 

The unpopularity of the army may be expected to increase, in 
proportion as the condition of the manual labour class of the popu- 
lation is improved; and there are many reasons for presuming that 
the circumstances of the working classes are greatly meliorated 
within the present century. As an evidence of the operation of 
the improved condition of the people upon the recruiting of the 
army, I may state that, on an averajfe, about from one-fourth to 

one-third of the men who enlist at the head-quarters of 

recruiting district, obtain a relief from enlistment, by paying each 
the smart money of L.I., together with all the other expenses 
which have been incurred on their account. I have no reason to 
believe that an equal ratio of recruits was relieved from enlistment 
twenty or thirty years ago. 

lam not enabled to class the recruits inspected at Dublin accord- 
inof to the degree of instruction they had received. Had I been 
able to arrange them under the following five heads, the result 
would have conveyed some interesting information : 

1. Neither read nor write. 

2. Read, but not write. 

3. Read and write imperfectly. 

4. Read and write well. 

5. Instruction beyond reading and writing. 

The manual labour class of the population, from which recruits 
for the army are drawn, may, in general, be placed under the first 
three heads; and as it may be presumed the men who enlist for 
soldiers have not commonly received a degree of instruction equal 
to the average of the class, their literary attainments must be ex- 
tremely limited. Hitherto no means have been adopted by author- 
ity to obtain any information respecting l[ie intellectual and moral 
character of recruits, or the instruction they have received. From 
some attempts which have been made to ascertain the degree of 
education among recruits raised in Scotland, it would appear that 



8 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

from 7 to 10 per cent, can neither read nor write, and that 1 ont of 
5 is unable to sig-n his name. Out of every 100 youri:^ men en- 
rolled in Prance dnringr the years 182S and 1829, in the military 
census, 36 could read and write. The highest deo^ree of enlighten- 
ment was in the department of the Mouse, where 74 per cent, could 
read and write, and the lowest is in Correse, where only 12 per 
cent, were so far instructed. 

When a man possesses the requisite physical strength and apti- 
tude, and is of sound mind, he is considered fit for military service, 
no farther investio^ation beintr commonly made in regard to his 
mental qualities, except to ascertain that he has not a "weak or 
disordered intellect." As to his nioral character, it is generally 
deemed inexpedient to make any inquiries on the subject; for what 
is generally called a good character namely, a character for moral- 
ity and good behaviour, such as would be required for a servant 
does not appear to be absolutely necessary in a recruit. The con- 
dition of a soldier is very little calculated to induce an industrious 
man, who can obtain subsistence in any other way, to embrace it; 
consequently, those who enter the service are commonly thought- 
less youths, petty delinquents, men of indolent habits, persons who 
are unable to procure work, or who are in very indigent circum- 
stances. The great desideratum of military officers namely, that 
of inducing the parents and friends of young men of a better and 
more educated class of life than that of which the army is now 
composed, to encourage their enlistment, and by that means to 
improve the moral character of the army is not likely to be real- 
ised. Experience holds out no hope, that, under existing circum- 
stances, any but the worst educated, and certainly not the best 
conducted, of the manual labour rank of the population, will delib- 
erately make choice of a military profession. The army is unpopu- 
lar, and will ever continue to be so in this country, not in conse- 
quence of the severity of the punishments of military service, but 
on account of the necessary restraints upon the habits of the man 
who becomes a soldier, and the severity of the service and duties 
which he has to perform namely, service for life at moderate pay, 
in unwholesome climates, at great distances, and incurring enor- 
mous risk to health and life. (Vide Note II.) 

By an ordinance of the 21st March, 1832, neither a substitute 
nor a volunteer can be received into the French army without pro- 
ducing a certificate of good character from the mayor of the coiu- 
mune in which he last resided; and in the case of a volunteer who 
may be under twenty years of age, the sanction of his relations 
must be given before he be enrolled. A si.nilar rule obtains in the 
army of the United States of America ; for no officer is permitted 
to enlist a recruit who is under age, unless the consent of his 
parents, guardians, or master, should previously have been obtained 
in writing. Some of the officers of the French army entertain a 
very unfavourable opinion of the measure of recruiting by volun- 
tary enlistment. Baron Rogniat {Considerations sur VArt de la 



MINIMUM AGE OF RECRUITS. ^ 

Guerre) states that voluntary enlistment made the French army a 
receptacle for deserlers and (breijrners of all nations, idle profligates, 
hy whom the noblest of all professions was rendered contemptible 
and degraded to such a degree, that an honest man, instead of being 
proud when his son engaged in the service of his conntry, blushed 
with shame when he saw him enrolled as a soldier. ] presume 
this account of the volunteers of the French army applies to the 
period of the war, for at present the substitutes are excellent sol- 
diers, and not remarkable for misconduct. General Foy charac- 
terizes that class of the population who voluntarily enlist, as "the 
scum of society," "the dregs of the people," whose constitutions 
are inipaired, and whose morals are depraved, by the vices and 
excesses of large towns ; persons who eng^age, as in the time of 
Francis I., '-' tuer pour vivre.^^ The French government does not 
seem to encourage the recruiting of the army by voluntary enlist- 
ment. The care that is taken to prevent profligate characters from 
enterinof the service will, in some measure, operate as a means of 
preserving the morals of the conscripts, of whom tlie arnjy is prin- 
cipally composed. 

Minimum age of Recruits. The period of life when a youth 
may be deemed fit for military service, is a highly important ele- 
ment in the selection of recruits. Before a youth has acquired the 
physical and nioral qualities calculated to enable him to endure the 
fatigue, and to execute the duties, incident to a military life, a cer- 
tain a^e must be attained. When a youth is examined by a medi- 
cal oflicer, regard should be had to the nature of the duties which 
may be required of soldiers, before he is approved. The arms, 
clothing, and necessaries, carried by an infantry soldier, commonly 
amoiuit to about 60 or 62 pounds; and as troops, even during a 
period of peace, are constantly liable to move from one place to 
another, a man cannot be considered an efficient soldier who is not 
easily able to undero^o a march of a few weeks. It will be recol- 
lected that, when bodies of troops are obliged to act simultaneously, 
any exertion to vt^hich they are exposed may be easily executed by 
the general mass; but if a portion of the njen is ut:able to sur- 
mount the fatigue without great difficulty, the operations of the 
corps or army are thereby retarded, as the exertions of the whole 
must be more or less regulated by the men who are the least effi- 
cient. Great and long-protracted exertions, whether in marching 
with a heavy knapsack, or in military exercises, tend to exhaust 
the frame, more especially of young striplings, who may be very 
willing, but v/ho are commonly unable to undergo the fatigue which 
men a few years older are capable of executing with ease. 

Dr. Fallot, in his excellent work on the duty of inspecting con- 
scripts, (fee, thus expresses iiimself: "To conclude, conscripts at 
the age of 18 have not attained their full growth ; and medical rnen 
are well aware that the coujplete developement of the humc-^n body 
requires an exemption from great fatigue, abundance of liealthy 
nourishment, undisturbed sleep, and a tranquil mind a concur- 



10 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OP SOLDIERS. 

rence of circumstances which never occurs in the army." {Memo- 
rial de Vex pert dans la Visile Sanitaire dcs Hornmes ds Guerre. 
Brnxflles, 1837.) 

Duririof a period of war, the necessity of physical power as well 
as health, in carryinof on agorressive operations, is universally ad- 
mitted. When a stripling soldier complains that he is unable for a 
particular duty, he is frequently sent to the surgeon of the corps, 
who, in liis turn, sends him back to his company, because physical 
weakness, without disease, is not always recognised as an adequate 
reason for receiving a man into hospital, or admitting him on the 
sick list. Over-exertion, however, soon produces disease in a youth, 
when he must become an inmate of the hospital. War in modern 
times consists so much in the science of making men march for the 
purpose of striking an unexpected blow on the enemy, that the 
efficiency of soldiers depends greatly on their capacity for execut- 
ing long marches with comparative ease. Marshal Saxe and Gene- 
ral Foy, both of whom had great military experience, do not hesi- 
tate in stating that the secret of war lies in the power of marching; 
namely, in the strength of the legs. Young lads will fight with 
great gallantry, but they are unable to endure the fatigue of long 
marches in wet weather, or upon heavy roads. Napoleon some- 
times transported his young infantry soldiers to distant stations by 
post carriages, for the purpose of preserving their health, strength, 
and efficiency. 

Recruits for an army should therefore be selected with a view 
to their capabilities of resisting the influence of the physical and 
moral causes of disease to which they may be exposed, and the 
fatiofues and privations they are liable to undergo. These facts are 
well known, and indeed familiar, to all classes of officers who have 
lived with soldiers, and who have encountered difficuties with 
them; so that any argument calculated to show the itnpolicy of 
enlisting very youns; recruits may appear to be superfluous. M. 
Ooche, in his valuable work entitled "/>e V Operation Medicale du 
Recrutemeiit el des Inspections Generates" says, "1 shall con- 
clude these important considerations by stating my deliberate opi- 
nion, that recruits at 18 years of age are commonly unfit for the 
duties of the army, not only in time of war, but even in a period of 
peace." "Even during peace, volunteers of 18 or 19 ^^ears of agfe. 
who do not possess unusual strength, frequently pass two, three, 
and even four years of their period of engagement (eight years) in 
hospital, should they not be discharged. This is what takes place 
in corps of the line, as must have been observed by military as well 
as medical officers." 

Numerous examples might be adduced to show that young lads 
are much less able to endure the fatigue of marchinjj than men a 
little more advanced in life. During the year 1805, a Frencli 
army, which was cantoned in the neighbourhood of Boulogne, 
marched about 400 leagues to join the grand army in Moravia, 
before the battle of Austerlitz, which was fought on the 2d Decern- 



MINIMUM AGE OF RECRUITS. H 

ber. This object it effected without leaving almost any sick in the 
hospitals on the route. The men of this army had served two 
years, and were all above 22 years of age. Compare the above 
result with the march of another army under different circum- 
stances. During the campaign of 1809, the troops cantoned in the 
north of Germany marched to Vienna, which is a much shorter 
distance than that which the other army travelled; but, by the 
time they arrived at the place of their destination, all the hospitals 
on the road were filled with sick. The first battle which took 
place this campaign was that of Eckmiihl, which was fought on 
the 22d April. More than one half of the men composing this 
army were under 20 years of age, the annual levy of conscripts 
having been anticipated. After the battle of Leipsic, Napoleon 
made great exertions to recruit his army, and called upon the mem- 
bers of the legislative senate to give him their assistance, to which 
they showed some reluctance. ^^ Shame on youP'' cried the em- 
peror. * * * "I demand a levy of 300,000 men 6m^ /mw5; 
have grown men hoys serve only to Jill the hospitals^ and encum- 
ber the road-sideJ'' During the last three years and five months of 
the Peninsular war, the period when the greatest activity prevailed, 
the mean streno^fh of the British army amounted to 61,511 men, 
and the sick to 13,815, being 22^ per cent. There is perhaps little 
doubt that a large portion of the inefficient troops were unfit, in 
consequence of inadequate physical strength, more than from actual 
sickness. The mean ratio of inefficiency from wounds did not ex- 
ceed 1^ per cent. {Edmonds.) 

Although young lads are unfit to surmount the fatigue of warlike 
operations and long marches so well as full-grown men, it has been 
.satisfactorily ascertained, that, in time of peace, and when they are 
not exposed to much physical exertion, the ratio of mortality is in- 
variably lower among young than old soldiers. This result obtains 
in all climates where British troops are employed ; and it would 
appear, that the mortality rises in nearly an exact ratio with the 
age of individuals. Age has been found the chief regulator of the 
ratio of mortality among the indigenous inhabitants of all coun- 
tries; and this law of nature does not appear suspended or inter- 
rupted among British troops serving in tropical climates. {Vide 
Note III) 

In a moral point of view, it appears to be impolitic to enlist lads 
at a very early age. What degree of prudence or discretion can 
be expected of a stripling of 16, 17, or even 18 years of age? 

He cannot be aware of the importance and consequence of his en^ 
gagement ; and it appears rather an anomaly in the law of the coun- 
try, that while a young man is incapacitated for making a will, so 
as to dispose of real or even personal property before he has reached 
21 years of age, he is, nevertheless, permitted to surrender his liberty 
for life. By an order which was issued from the Horse Guards, 
dated 28th December, 1804, L.2, 2s. was allowed to parents who 



12 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

brought a boy under 16 years of age, and who was 5 feet 2 inches 
ill hei:rht. A similar sum was allowed lo the bringer of a boy, 
although no relationship existed between them. Young lads rarely 
enlist kom a decided predilection for a niilitary life: this irretriev- 
able and important step is commonly taken in consequence of some 
sudden thought or tit of passion, occasioned by a domestic broil, 
chagrin or disappointment, inebriety, want of work, indigence, and 
perhaps a few are excited to take "the shilling," the smybol of en- 
listment, by the finesse of a recruiting serjeant. "They fio^ure to 
themselves, in their youthful fancies, a thousand occasions of ac- 
quiring honour and distinction which never occur. These roman- 
tic hopes make the whole price of their blood. Their pay is less 
than that of common labourers ; and, on actual service, their 
fatigues are much greater. A young man may go to sea with his 
father's consent; but if he enlists, it is always without it." ( Wealth 
of Nations.) 

As enlistment is seldom or never entered upon from mature de- 
liberation, it may easily be inferred, that stripling recruits frequently 
soon feel more or less the sentiments of regret, remorse, and depres- 
sion of spirits, followed by impaired health, home-sickness, and com- 
parative inefficiency. The army is not a natural state of society; 
and every considerable deviation from the natural condition of 
mankind brings with it a corresponding deleterious influence on 
the constitution of individuals, more especially upon youths, who 
are very susceptible of the injurious consequences of sudden changes. 
The indissoluble and interminable nature of a man's engagement 
hopelessness, change of diet, new comrades, and new habits re- _^^ 
moval from friends the thraldom of command, and the restraints^H 
of discipline all contribute to occasion great mental disquietude, ^^B 
which in young lads is a frequent precursor of impaired health and 
physical inefficiency. 

"How often does it happen," says Kirckholf, (Hygiene Mili- 
taire,) "that an inexperienced youth is deluded by a recruiting ser- 
jeant, or excited by an ebullition of passion, or a paroxysm of in- 
ebriety, to enlist a measure which he deeply regrets before the 
succeeding mornins:! He becomes dejected the love of home, and 
of friends whom he may never see, paralyses his mind and ruins 
his health; he is incapable of being made an efficient soldier, and 
frequently terminates his career in hospital." This is a picture of 
what occurs in the army of the King of the Netherlands, which has 
very little foreign service, and in which the period of engagement 
extends to only five or six years. How diii^rent is the prospect of 
a soldier in the British army! two thirds or three fourths of whose 
service must be abroad, chiefly in tropical climates, and, as his en- 
gagement is unlimited, he can have no hope of regaining his liberty 
until his health is gone, and his constitution irrecoverably exhaust- 
ed. To enlist recruits before they have acquired sufficient strength 
to qualify them to execute the duties, and to undergo the fatigues 




MAXIMUM AGE OF RECRUITS. 13 

of a military life, is to multiply the victims of disease and vexation, 
and to auortTient the expenses of an army without adding to its 
strength. 

In general, no great dependence can be placed upon the age of a 
recruit as stated by himself on enlistment; but a suitable age is 
only one important element in the choice of a recruit. Lads of 18 
are sometimes more matured, and possess in a greater degree the 
qualities which constitute an efficient soldier, than some men of 20 
or 21 years. The changes in the physical character of man are 
so imperceptible, and the transition so little apparent, that no very 
definite marks of particular age can be assigned. During the age 
of adolescence the head is often comparatively large, the spine 
straight and long, and the inferior extremities proportionally ex- 
tenuated. At about 19 or twenty years of age some of the wisdom 
teeth generally appear. This circumstance, although liable to many 
exceptions, is the most specific mark that organisation affords of a 
particular period of life. The bones become gradually thicker, the 
joints strong, and the shoulders broad the muscles firmer and 
better developed. 

Maximum age of Recruits. It is desirable that a young man 
should join the army as soon as he has acquired the necessary phys- 
ical power, and his constitution has been so far matured as to ena- 
ble him to undergo the bodily exertion which may be required of 
soldiers. Kirckhoff, physician to the army of the King of the 
Netherlands, who had much experience of active warfare, thus ex- 
presses himself in regard to the minimum and maxlmttm age of 
recruits. "We ought to establisli it as a general rule not to receive 
a recruit into the army below 20 years of age, or above 25. Under 
20 years of age a man has not the requisite strength to enable him 
to undergo the fatigue of military duty, and after 25 his joints do 
not possess that flexibility or freedom of motion which is necessary 
for acquiring the discipline of a soldier." As recruits engage for an 
unlimited period, it is of great importance that they should not be 
enlisted at an advanced period of life, and perhaps 24 or 25 is, under 
existing circumstances, the utmost age at which a man should be 
received into the army. An extremely small proportion of the men 
belonging to infantry corps of the line exceed 40 years of age, I 
believe about 5 per cent. By the time they reach that age they 
have nearly all become unfit for active service, and require to be 
discharged on account of disabilities. The period, therefore, during 
which a man's efficient service may be depended upon, is limited to 
between 20 and 40 years of age. But there is another consideration 
which ought not to pass unnoticed, namely, that many of the men 
who enlist after 25 or 26 years of age, are habitually dissipated and 
profligate characters, or persons who have been unsuccessful in 
business, broken-down gentlemen, discharged soldiers, deserters, 
(fee. all of which classes of society are very ineligible recruits. It has 
already been staled, that implicit credit should not always be given 
to the statements of men in regard to their age. This is particularly 
7 c 2 mar 



14 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

the case in the older class of recrnifs, as men of 35 not unfrequently 
assert that they are not ahove 25 years of ai^e ; and to promote the 
deception, Warren's blac/cinff is employed, when required, to con- 
ceal the brio^htness of gray hairs. In such cases the period of life 
must be estimated by physiological appearances, not by the testimony 
of a recruit. After 25 or 26 years of age, corpulency, to a certain 
extent, commonly supervenes, with more or less prominence of the 
belly. Tlie approach to an advanced period of life is indicated by 
wrinkles on the forehead, particularly round the eye, in consequence 
of the absorption of fat, and by the muscles becoming less firm, the 
skin softer, and the extremities less plump. 

I have no materials which are calculated to enable me to state 
with any degree of accuracy, the average annual number of recruits 
required for the British army in time of peace. The annual mor- 
tality may perhaps be estimated at about 4000, and the men dis- 
charged at an equal number, amountins^ together to 8000 ; but this 
number does not include the annual decrement by desertion. I am 
disposed to presume that from 1 1,000 to 12^000 recruits will be an- 
nually required to supply the vacancies which occur in the armv. 
{Vide Note, No. IV.) 

Having premised these remarks on the mode of enlisting recruits, 
and the general qualifications necessary for soldiers, 1 shall now 
proceed to consider in detail the causes on account of which a recruit 
ougiit to be considered unfit for the army by a medical officer. 

(Circular, No. 686.) 

Sir, War Offick, 30th Jvlij, 1830. 

I have the honour to forward for your information, a copy of 
instructions dated the 30lh July, 1830, which have been issued with 
my concurrence by the Army Medical Board, to medical staff, and 
regimental officers, relative to the inspection of recruits, and of 
soldiers brought forward for discharge, and to desire that you will 
cause these instructions to be strictly attended to in the regiment 
under your command. 

I have the honor to be, Sir, 

Your most obedient humble Servant, 

H. Hardinge. 
Officer Covunanditig 

Regiment of 

Army Medical Department. 

Instructions for the Guidance of Staff and Regimental Officers 
helonging to the Medical Department, in the duty of exam.ining 
Recruits who may he brought before them for Inspection. 

I. The leading object of the following instructions is to guard 
against the approval of recruits for the army, whose health of body 
or mind is unsound, who have any suspected taint of disease or dis- 



QUALITIES OP RECRUITS. 15 

ability, and who, at the period of inspection are incapable of under- 
goin^r tfie fiitiiTue to which troops are liable. 

If. Medical officers of the army are. from their professional know- 
ledge and experience of the duties of a solcJier, presumed to be capable 
of forminji^ a correct opinion of the health of lecruits, their capacity 
for exertion, and general efficiency. The external characters of 
a sound constitution and efficient limbs may be briefly stated, viz. a 
tolerably just proportion between the trunk and different members 
of the body, a countenance expressive of health, with a lively eye 
skin firm and elastic lips red teeth in good condition voice 
strong chest capacious and well formed belly lank limbs mus- 
cular feet arched and of a moderate length hands rather large 
than small. The reverse of these marks of a good constitution 
and efficiency, may be considered to indicate infirm health or 
inefficiency. 

III. The question of fitness or unfitness in a recruit, must in a 
great measure be determined by the discretion and experience of the 
officer who inspects him, for no rule can be formed of so definite a 
character as to dispense with the exercise of the deliberate reflection 
and judgment of a medical officer. 

[The essential qualities of a good recruit may be comprehensively 
stated in a k\v words, namely, a suitable age ; aptness for military 
duty j a healthy body ^ and a sound mind. These principal or 
essential qualities may exist with a number of blemishes, which in 
the opinion of an unfettered, conscientious, skilful, and experienced 
medical officer, may be considered of no material importance, inas- 
much as they do not impair a man's efficiency, or diminish liis 
prospective longevity. It is very desirable that medical officers 
should arrive at some degree of uniformity in regard to their estima- 
tion of the fitness or unfitness of recruits. One medical officer fixes 
his attention upon the maxinivjn of the good qualities of recruits, 
and rejects about 2000 out of every 3000 whom he exaunnes; while 
another, who is guided by the spirit of his instructions keeps in 
mind the mz'/i/m?//?! of efficiency of recruits, and approves of 2000 
out of every 3000 whom he inspt cts. The ditTerence of these two 
results is highly important in a financial as well as military point 
of view.] 

IV. As soldiers are liable to serve in every variety of climate, to 
endure great changes of temperature, to be exposed to frequent vicis- 
situdes of weather, to undergo much fatigue, to brave the greatest 
danger, and often to sustain considerable privations of the common 
necessaries of life, recruits should possess vigorous constitutions and 
great muscular capability ; hence no man ought to be approved 
for the service whose health is unsound, and who does not possess 
adequate strength for the duties which he may be called upon to 
perform. 

[Until towards the end of the last century, it appears that the duty 
of examining and approving of recruits for the army belonged chiefly 
to the captains and field officers of regimentS; and that the assistance 



16 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

of medical officers was not essentially required for that purpose. In. 
the business of inspecting recruits medical officers have usually had 
their attention directed chiefly to the assumed indications of ineffi- 
ciency ox inaptitude oi candidates for the army; whereas the in- 
structions of military officers uniformly bear prominently in mind 
the efficient qualities of recruits. Two examples may be given from 
military writers. 

" Forasmuch as the profession of a souldier is of all other the most 
painefull, it is requisite that he be of a strong composition of body to 
abide both heate and cold, hunger, and thirst, travell and watching, 
and that when he enter into this course of life, he put on a resolu- 
tion to abide all kind of hardnesse." Stratioticos hy Thomas 
Digffes, Esq. London, 1590. 

"In recruiting the regiment no man shall be entertained exceed- 
ing 6 feet ; nor under 5 feet 11 inches, in stockings. They must be 
well-faced, toell-shoiddered, well-limbed, light-timbered men, and 
known to be Protestants. Their age from 18 to 23." {Standing- 
orders for the Royal Dragoons of Ireland, 1738.)] 

V. The following enumeration of the more common causes for 
which a recruit should be rejected, when any of them exist to such 
a degree as will immediately, or in all probability at no very dis- 
tant period, impair a man's efliciency, is intended as a general guide 
to medical officers in the performance of the duty of inspecting 
recruits. 

1. Feeble constitution: unsound health from whatever cause, 
indications of former disease, as leech-bites, traces of blisters, 
thereby showing a liability to infirm health, nodes, glandular 
swellings, or other symptoms of scrofula, 6cc. (fee. 

[Feeble Constitution. The disqualifying eflfects of a leeble consti- 
tution will, perhaps, be better appreciated by a few observations 
relative to a robust healthy frame than by any other means. A good 
constitution implies a due proportional developement and healthy 
condition of the various organs of the body. Persons who have 
strong constitutions are not only less liable to disease than those 
whose constitutions are weak, but when they are attacked, the 
symptoms commonly yield to remedial means, and recovery is not 
often tedious. Tall men are presumed to be more liable to disease 
than middle-sized persons, and their complaints are alleged to be 
more apt to become chronic. They are seldom able to endure long 
continued fatigue so well as men of a medium height, and in general 
they act with less energy. ^^ Les petits resistent long-tems, les 
collosses siiccombent de bonne heure. La campagne de Moscoii est 
decisive a cet egard.''^ (Coche.) Men of short stature are usually 
thicker and stouter in their relative proportions than persons who 
are much above the medium height. A tall man has in general very 
obviously a less capacious thorax in proportion to his height than a 
middle-sized man. Certain trades, occupations, and conditions of 
life, are, in some degree, indicative of the state of the health or consti- 



UNSOUND HEALTH. 17 

tution. A very small proportion only of the children of soldiers reach 
the age of manhood ; and those who survive the privations and 
exposure they undergo are commonly stunted, often scrofulous, and 
frequently vicious. This observation applies not only to boys 
brought up with their parents, but also to the children of soldiers 
who have been received into the Royal Military Asylum at Chelsea, 
and the Royal Hibernian Military School, Dublin. Men of idle 
habits and greatly depraved morals make excessively bad soldiers ; 
they are seldom long out of the hospital or the guard-room. Persons 
who have been abundantly supplied with food, and who have been 
engaged in rural employments, are presumed to be more likely to 
become healthy efficient soldiers, than artisans and the enfeebled or 
often vicious inhabitants of large towns. A great many of the con- 
scripts found unfit for the army in the French service are rejected 
in consequence of a weak habit of body. The mean annual num- 
ber of conscripts examined during the years 1831, 1832. and 1833, 
amounted to 126,669, of which number 11,007 were exempted from 
serving on account of feebleness of constitution, being 87 per 1000, 
or nearly 9 per cent. But notwithstanding all the care that can be 
taken to execute the duty of examining recruits, in a conscientious 
manner, towards the country, the recruits themselves, and the per- 
sons employed on the recruiting service, individuals may be occa- 
sionally approved who will not become good soldiers, sometimes 
on account of physical inefficiency, and sometimes from intellectual 
incapacity. The Romans were well aware of this circumstance; 
and, consequently, a conscript was never finally approved until he 
underwent a probation of four months. If, by the end of this period, 
it had been satisfactorily ascertained that he possessed the requisite 
aptitude and strength, to enable him to surmount the hardships of 
a soldier's life, with a sufficient mental capacity for acquiring a 
knowledge of his profession, and a due degree of courage, he re- 
ceived the military mark, which was indelibly imprinted on the 
hand, probably by branding. This mark served not only to show 
that a man had, after trial, been approved, but also to discover de- 
serters. The Apostle Paul is supposed to allude to this military 
custom, Galatians, vi. 17. 

Unsound Health. The causes on account of which recruits may 
be found unfit for military service are comprehended under three 
heads, namely, low stature^ deformities^ and infirmities (unsound 
health.) The duty of a medical officer is limited to an examination 
of the last two heads. Disease, or imperfect health, implies a state 
of the body in which the exerciseof some of its functions is impaired. 
Unsound health comprehends, therefore, every variety of disability 
which is not included under the head deformity. It includes not 
only all the obvious infirmities, but also obscure and periodic disa- 
bilities, which consequently may be simulated. Among the latter 
class may be enumerated mental alienation, stammering, deafness, 
epilepsy, vertigo, lameness, rheumatism, pain in some part of the 
body, morbid paleness, indicative of an unhealthy constitution. 



18 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



When the evidence of the existence of a disability depends solely 
upon the testimony of a recruit, a medical officer must consider 
well how far he is warranted in firjding him unfit on that account. 
The man may no doubt state the truth, and he may i)e liable to epi- 
lepsy, for example; but the presumptive evidence a^iiinst his state- 
ment maybe slron2;er than his testimony ; and a njedical officer 
ou<jht to incur no bhime for approving of a man under such circum- 
stances. Commonly, however, in alleged epileptic cases, not a word 
IS said of a disability at examination ; the recruit swears, on being 
attes'ed, that he has never been subject to fits; he is transferred 
from the depot, wliere he enlisted, to the head-quarters of the regi- 
ment to which he belongs, inspected by the surgeon of the corps ancj 
tinaliy approved. By and by the man alleges thai he hs affected 
v/ith epilepsy^ and states that he has suffered from this disability for 
several years. He is discharged; and the staff-surgeon who pri- 
marily examined him, receives a reprimand, sometinies by bemg 
directed to pay increased attention to the orders issued for tlie exam-, 
fnation ot recruits. Persons who have not had much practical ex- 
perience of the exatnination of recruits are not aware of the difficul- 
ties of the duty, and the contending interests which it involves. 
With respect to epilepsy, they frequently presume, that a man who 
is liable to the disease has a particular cast of countetjance, whereby 
his alleo^ed disability may be discovered. This presumption of 
knowledge is, I believe, a complete fallacy. A case of this kind 
happened to a staff-surgeon, a friend of mine, who, being conscious 
that, in the performance of fiis duty, he was njitjute, vigilant, cau- 
tious, and strictly attentive to all the orders and instructions which 
had been issued in regard to the inspection of recruits, felt somewhat 
vexed and hurt when he received the usual admonition or repri- 
mand. In his defence he addressed the following query to three 
eminent medical gentlemen, whose character for talents and experi- 
ence was well known :- - 

"Are you acquainted with any peculiarities of appearance by 
wliich you are able to detect tiie existence of epilepsy, where the 
general health of an individual liable to that disease appears to be 
good ?" 

The answer from each of the three medical orentlemen was in the 
necrative. They knew of no sign by which, on viewing a recruitj 
subject to epilepsy, the disease could be detected. My friend con-| 
sidered this vindication due to his own character, for professional 
knowledi^e and attention to his duty. In tlie Ordnance Medical, 
Regulations for the examination of recruits, careful inquiry is di-, 
rected to be made, as to a man's ever having been troubled with 
fits; but, it may be asked, where is the inquiry to begin at)d wher^ 
is it to end? The statement of a recruit, in regard to tlie disability 
m question, either negatively, or affirmatively, is not very concluf 
sive ; and there is no other more satisfactory source of information. 

Numerous orders and instructions have from time to time been, 
issued, for the purpose, among others, of preventing the loss sus- 






UNSOUND HEALTH. 19 

tained by the public service, in the admission of recruits who have, 
on intermediate or final inspection, been considered unfit, and dis- 
charged. The loss incurred has, I beUeve, frequently arisen from 
the premature discharge of men who have feigned disabilities, and 
by that means effected their release from the army. In the per- 
formance of the duty of inspecting recruits, the utmost vigilance is 
absolutely indispensable. On a large scale the attention ous^ht never 
to flag, or the mind of the examiner for a moment be withdrawn 
from the subject before him : if it is, there is a probability of some- 
thing escajiing him necessary to form an accurate estimate of the 
fitness of a recruit. This observation is, of course, more especially 
applicable where the subjects under examination are pretty nume- 
rous, as, for example, 15, 20, or 30, daily. The most accurate ex- 
ternal view is not always conclusive, as to the ultimate eligibility 
of a recruit, and men are sometimes approved on an inspection and 
examination of from five to ten minutes (the time usually required for 
each), who, on an acquaintance of a month or more, would have beer: 
rejected. But the process is necessarily a summary one ; the recruit 
must be promptly rejected or approved. The best set of external tests 
or marks are fallible ; a man may become or may be already epileptic, 
whose countetiance betrays no sign of the disease: another may 
have that obtuseness of mind which unfits him for being an efficient 
soldier; he may be practically an idiot, and yet his replies, and con- 
versation, and countenance evince no want of comprehension ; and 
men of this class are occasionally approved. In the great divesity 
of manner and aspect, no single examination will always be suflfi- 
cient to detect these defects ; to be recognised they must be experi- 
enced. Others may have a liability to pulmonic, hepatic, or febrile 
affections, without any obvious indication of such a predisposition. 
But it may be reasonably presumed, that, in the great majority of 
cases, the ordinary marks of health and sufficiency will be fully 
adequate to protect the public from any considerable loss. This is 
undoubtedly true; but in numerous inspections, for example 2000 
or 3000 ^annually, these exceptions will amount to something; and 
in every such exception the medical officer is liable to censure. 
Every promising recruit will not become a good soldier; and every 
youth raised in Kerry or Caithness will not be an available man 
when he reaches Chatham barracks. Young men seldom enlist 
from any rational preference to a military life; it is generally the 
result of folly, misfortune, poverty or intemperance. Until a recruit 
is domesticated with a corps, his attachment to the service can never 
be calculated on, and recruits raised for regiments serving abroad, 
in the period between enlisting and reaching the place of final em- 
barkation, often betray great reluctance to the service. Sometimes 
they endeavour to accomplish their discharge by feigning disabili- 
ties, and sometimes they try to relieve themselves from the thraldom 
of military control by desertion. A very considerable number of 
lecruits desert within three or four days after enlistment. 

Indications of former disease. The traces of leech-bites, blis- 



20 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

ters, sefons, ciippino^, &c. all deserve attention, and the probable 
consequences require to be duly appreciated. Taken in connection 
with the appearance of infirm health, they ought to have considera- 
ble weight in determining a medical officer to reject a recruit, but 
when the man under consideration is evidently robust and in excel- 
lent health, they become of less importance. In cases where any 
suspicion is entertained that a recruit has previously been in the 
army, every trace of former disease ought to be carefully scrutinised, 
(vide Article 40, Pensioning Regulations^ 1829.) I iiave frequently 
detected men who had served in India, where leeches are much 
employed, and who had been discharged on account of ill health, 
by the cicatrices of numerous leech-bites on the body. Attempts 
are sometimes made to conceal scars on the neck, by bringing the 
chin close to the neck. In the same manner I have seen a cicatrix, 
resulting from an unsuccessful attempt to commit suicide by cutting 
the throat, temporarily concealed. 

Nodes. Inequalities of the snrface of a bone are not always the 
result of syphilis; they are occasionally found in robust healthy in- 
dividuals, where no suspicion can be entertained of the existence of 
disease, and consequently are not infirmities which invariably dis- 
qualify a recruit. 

Glandular swellings, Scrofula is commonly indicated by a 
short thick neck, fair hair, blue eyes, face puffy, or slightly swelled, 
particularly the upper lip, abdomen prominent, glands of the neck 
and groin swelled. Scrofula is an adequate cause for the rejection 
of a recruit.] 

2. Weak or Disordered Intellect. 

[The attention of medical officers should be invariably directed 
to the mental capacity of recruits. In almost all regiments there are 
some men who never acquire the art of performing the duty of sol- 
diers correctly, seemingly on account of want of intellect. But a 
medical officer must be prepared not to pay implicit credit to the 
testimony of interested persons in this respect. I have been repeat- 
edly waited upon by the relations of a recruit, for the purpose of 
informing me that his mind was unsound, a character he had 
obtained, apparently, because he had enlisted without their appro- 
bation.] 

3. Chronic Cutaneous Affections, especially of the Scalp. 

[This class of disabilities almost invariably renders a recruit in- 
eligible. With respect to tinea capitis^ fSouvillc, in his Thesis on 
the Diseases which disqualify Conscripts for the French army, says, 
" Cette maladie est quelquefois rebelle k tout trairment interne et 
bien raisonne: Si celui qui est affecte de la teigne approache de vingt 
ans et au-dela, elle peut etre repui6e incurable."] 

4. Severe Injuries of the Bones of the Head. 
[Great injuries of the skull, followed by exfoliation, extraction, or 



EYES EARS. 



21 



depression of the bones, should invariably cause a recruit to be re- 
jected. Injuries of this kind are frequently succeeded by alleged 
disabilities of the mind or body, and it is often difficult to distinguish 
whether these consequences are real or feigned. Slight blemishes 
or defects in recruits are 3ometin:ies magnified itito serious disabili- 
ties when they become soldiers ; and as it is impossible to estimate 
the intensity of a complaint, or the influence it may have on the 
general health, medical officers often find much difficulty in coming 
to a conclusion in regard to such cases. A blemish of this kind may 
be concealed by long hair, and hence the propriety and expediency 
of applying the fingers to the head.' Wigs are sometimes employed 
to conceal fractures of the skull as well as tinea capitis. On this 
subject I may quote an extract from Isfordinlc {Military Police 
of the Austrian Army): " Men who have grown bald from some 
internal cause, or in consequence of a previous disease, use scalps 
to conceal this blemish. Though at first sight it appears extremely 
easy to find out the deception, yet it will certainly not be discovered 
unless a medical officer directs his attention particularly to the cover- 
ing of the head, because the modern art of wig-making very closely 
imitates nature. The detection of this defect is, however, important, 
not only with regard to baldness, but also with respect to a cutaneous 
eruption on the head, and depression of the bones of the cranium. 
Hence, wlien a medical officer inspects a volunteer recruit, or a sub- 
stitute, the soundness of the hairy covering of the head should be 
satisfactorily ascertained. The eyebrows likewise will require his 
attention ; he must examine whether they are natural or false." In the 
examination of recruits I have certainly found wigs where I did not 
anticipate that there was any artificial covering of the head employed.] 

5. Impaired Vision from whatever cause, Inflammatory Afllsctions 
of the Eyelids, Immobility, or Irregularity of the Iris, Fistula 
Lachrymal is, <fec. &.c. 

[Vision is sometimes impaired by obvious causes, as specks, 
ulcers of the cornea and cataract. Complete or even partial amau- 
rosis of an eye is a decidedly disqualifying defect, and one which 
may escape detection. Chronic inflammation of the eye, together 
with such affections of the eyelids as ectropion^ or a turning out of 
the eyelid, and entropion^ or a turning in of the eyelid, render a 
recruit unfit for the service. Any considerable irregularity of the iris 
implies that the eye has sufl^ered from inflammation, and conse- 
quently, that it may be liable to a similar affection. During the 
years 1831, 1832, and 1833, of the conscripts examined in France, 
7.3 per 1000 were exempted from serving in the army on account 
of short sight. ^Strabismus, which is frequently a modification of 
imperfect vision, disqualifies a recruit for the army, when it exists 
in any considerable degree.] 

6. Deafness, copious discharge from the Ears. 
[Deafness may no doubt exist without any physical evidence of 



4 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

loss offieuriiior ; but it will be recollected that an impaired function 
of the enr is easily feiixned, and, conseqnently, tlie truth of an alle- 
gation of deafness must generally be decided rather by moral than 
physical evidence.] 

7. Loss of many Teeth, or the Teeth generally unsound. 

[When the incisors and canine teeth of tfie superior or inferior 
jaw are wantincj, a man is deprived of the means of easily and 
rapidly tearinor a cartridsro he is conseqnently said to be unable to 
execute the different modes of firmer with precision. Rather more 
tlian one per cent, of the conscripts examined for the Fn^ich army, 
during the years 1831-1833, were exempted from serving on ac- 
count of loss of teeth. Recruits often endeavour to conceal the loss 
of teeth by covering the gums with the lips. The ossistatice of the 
dentist is occasionally resorted to. So widely, and perhaps absurdly, 
is this article sometimes interpreted, that I have known a healthy 
efficient recruit rejected upon medical inspection, because he had 
lost one incAsor tooth by an accident ; and others returned unfit be- 
cause they had lost two molar teeth by accident.] 

8. Impediment of Speech. (Stammering.) 

[It may be observed that some stammerers can utter a ie.\v short 
sentences in succession without any remarkable hesitation of speech. 
When any doubt is entertained in regard to the existence of this 
defect, a recruit should be placed for some time under probation ; and 
if he be unable to speak distinctly, the circumstance will commonly 
become soon obvious. But stamniering is easily feigned ; and re- 
cruits sometimes simulate it for the purpose of bein<r rejected. As 
it is extremely difficult to detect impostors of this kind, perhaps they 
are frequently successful. Stammering often exists where there is 
no apparent deformity of the organs of sound, by which means, if a 
recruit persist in stammerino-, he will have a considerable prospect 
of being rejected. Dr. Fallot, principal physician to the Belgian 
army, very cleverly detected a conscript who feigned hesitation of 
speech. He was, in consequence of violent contortions of the mus- 
cles of the face when he began to speak, suspected of being an im- 
postor, in fact, he overacted his part. Fearing that stammering 
was not likely to effect his purpose, he pointed out a small goitre 
which he had as an additional reason for his being exempted from 
serving. Dr. Fallot assumed a serious countenance, and observed 
to another medical officer, that, as the tumour was a large aneu- 
rism, it disqualified the conscript for the army, and proceeded ap- 
parently, to make out the certificate of his unfitness for serving. 
The man was delighted, forgot to stammer, and was finally ap- 
proved. Harelip is a decided disqualification of a recruit.] 

9. Want of due capacity of the chest, and any other indication of 
a liability to pulmonic disease, (Disease of the Heart.) 

The practical application of this rule must be left to the discretion 



CONTRACTION OF A JOINT. 23 

and skill of medical officers, for it is impossible to g^ive specific in- 
structions in re^rard to so wide and indefinite a snbject. 13r. Fallot 
says, " Tout homme dont la poitrine est mal conformee ou trap 
retrecle, doit etre jus^e impropre an service railitaire." Every medi- 
cal officer who is employed in the duty of examinin<j recruits must 
judge for himself in re^rard to the degree of deviation from sym- 
metry of the chest, which may be considered an indication of an 
unusual liability to pulmonic disease, and as disqualifying a man 
for the army. Different minds will unavoidably arrive at diti'erent 
conclusions on this as on many other presumed disabilities. 

Heart. While a recruit is under examination, the circulation is 
commonly quicker than usual, and the heart palpitates strongly, so 
much so as occasionally to be obvious to spectators. Anxiety of 
mind, and the novelty of a man's situation, will satisfactorily ac- 
count for these circumstances, without concluding that they indi- 
cate disease of the heart or large blood-vessels. I have never re- 
jected a recruit on account of an affection of-the heart; but I am 
aware that men have been found unfit for the army in consequence 
of the alleged disability of "organic disease of the heart." A satis- 
factory diagnosis of disease of the heart, so as to warrant a medical 
officer to reject a recruit on that account, will very rarely be obtained 
during a period of five or ten minutes, the time usually employed 
in examining a candidate for the army. 

10. Impaired or inadequate efficiency of one or both of the superior 
extremities, on account of palsy, old fractures, especially of the 
clavicles, contrai;tion of a joint, mutilation, extenuation, deformity, 
ganglions, (fee. <fec. 

Palsy. LiOss of power of one or more of the fingers of a hand, 
occasionally occurs, sometiujes as a consequence of mechanical in- 
jury. The degree of the infirmity which follows will require to be 
duly appreciated. 

Fractures. Due care should be taken to ascertain that the long 
bones are sound. When a man is approved whose arm has been 
fractured, he is liable to allege at a future period that his arm is 
paitjful and inefficient, consequently, unless the fractured bone has 
been well united, he should not be found fit for the service. The 
late Dr. Brown, staff-surgeon, examined a recruit who performed 
satisfactorily all the evolutions to which recruits are commonly sub- 
jected, although he had a disunited fracture of the radius and 2dna 
of the right arm. For a similar reason, men who have had a clav- 
icle factured ought almost invariably to be rejected. They fre- 
quently complain that the strap of the knapsack excites uneasiness. 

Contraction of a Joint. Impaired motion of one of the large 
joints, such as the shoulder or elbow, is a very important defect, 
and a cause of inefficiency that occasionally escapes observation. 
The little and sometimes also the rinsf-finger are found contracted, ap- 
parently in consequence of heavy manual labour,which is a disability 
that requires to be carefully examined, and duly estimated, so as to 



24 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OP SOLDIERS. 

ascertain whether the hand is snfficiently apt to handle the firelock. 
Each finder should be examined separately, for the purpose of as- 
certaining that the flexor and extensor muscles are sound, and their 
functions unimpaired. 

Mittilation. By the regulations comprehended in the French 
Code de la Conscription^ a conscript is not to be exempted from 
service on account of any mutilation of a hand less than the loss of 
a thumb or the fore-fino^er of the riorhthand. But reo:ulations for 
mspectins: conscripts apply much better to the examination of 
alle^ifed disabled soldiers, than to the examination of recruits who 
voluntarily enlist. The loss of any fin^rer of a hand should cause 
a recruit to bo rejected; and no man who had lost the last joint of 
the index finirer of the right hand should be approved. 

Extenuation. In general, the right arm has a circumference of 
about one fourth or one third of an inch greater than the left ; but 
even where the difference of bulk is a little more than one third of 
an inch, there is commonly no unusual inferiority of power in the 
smaller arm. Occasionally, however, instances occur where one 
arm is so much smaller than the other, as to be a sufficient cause 
for rejecting a man. The want of symmetry, or difference of size 
between the right and left arm, does not seem to depend much upon 
the nature of the man's employment, for it is sometimes observed in 
youths and in persons who have not been liable to much exercise, 
to as great a degree as in mechanics, such as carpenters (fee. 

Deformity. Any deviation from the natural formation of one or 
both arms, which impairs a man's efficiency, should be considered 
as an adequate cause for rejecting him. A congenital deviation 
from symmetry commonly affects both sides of the body ; a circum- 
stance which helps to distinguish natural blemishes from traces of 
injuries. 

Ganglions. Tumours of (his kind may impair the efficiency of 
soldiers ; they certainly give some colour for an alleged disability, 
and consequently should be carefully considered before a recruit is 
approved. 

11. An unnatural excurvature or incurvature of the spine. 

Stooping or round-shouldered men are objectionable as recruits, 
more especially if they are above 21 or 22 years of age, even al- 
though they possess sound health and adequate muscular power. 

The spine is frequently deflected laterally, but unless the curva- 
ture is considerable, this deviation does not by any means disqualify 
a man for the army. In lateral curvature, there are commonly 
two inflections, by which means the spinal column has a sigmoid 
form. The convexity of the lower or lumbar curve is generally 
towards the left, while the convexity of the upper is to the right 
side. 

Lateral curvature of the spine is intimately connected with civil- 
ised life. In the male sex it occurs most frequently among boys who 
study very closely, clerks, and persons who exercise sedentary 



p 

tr 



HERNIA. 25 



trades. The agricultural peasant is seldom affected with it, and the 
tribes of people commonly denominated savage, perhaps never. I 
have had good opportunities of observing the natives of India, and 
of the Malay Islands, and I do not recollect having seen a single 
case of this deformity among them. 

There is a variety of lateral curvature which is occasioned by an 
unequal length of the inferior extremities. When this is the case, 
the pelvis is oblique, and the convexity of the curve is towards the 
shorter limb. In this deformity the spinal column may be made 
straight by placing a body equal to the difference of the length of 
the extremities under the foot of the limb on the convex side of the 
curve. When a deflection of the spine depends upon a short limb, 
the curve may be observed by viewing the body in front, as the 
sternum and linea alba have a flexure corresponding with that of 
the vertebral column. Unless one limb is more than half an inch 
shorter than the other, and there is some inequality as to develope- 
ment, so as to render it probable that the extremity is deficient in 
power, a recruit need not be rejected. 

In the examination of recruits, I found so frequently a slight de- 
viation of the spine, more especially laterally, and often in individ- 
uals who possessed great aptitude for the duties of the army, with 
sound health and well developed muscles, that I did not consider 
that blemish, when in a moderate degree, a disqualifying defect. It 
is expedient, however, not to say a word of the circumstance in the 
hearing of a recruit, as he might at some future time found a disa- 
bility upon the unnecessary, if not injudicious surmises of a zealous, 
well-meaning medical officer. I believe that not a (ew, perhaps I 
may say many, very eligible recruits have been rejected in conse- 
quence of this hypothetical disability. 

12. Hernia, or a tendency to that disability from preternatural en- 
largement of the abdominal ring. 

Three varieties of hernia are occasionally found upon examining 
recruits, namely, ventral, umbilical, and inguinal hernia. The first 
two varieties are commonly of little importance, and rarely inca- 
pacitate a man for military duty ; the latter is a decided cause of 
disqualification. The cases of ventral hernia which come before a 
medical officer in the inspection of recruits are, in most instances, 
scarcely perceptible even during the act of coughing, the protrusion 
being often not larger than a pea or half a hazel-nut. Umbilical 
hernia is also commonly trifling or unimportant in degree. It may 
be mentioned that a large proportion of the natives of Tropical 
Africa have this affection, and perhaps no class of people in the 
world are capable of enduring greater fatigue. Recruits sometimes 
endeavour to conceal the existence of inguinal rupture, and when 
the protrusion is but small, and appears after violent exertion only, 
it may escape notice. The dissimulation is promoted by a purga- 
tive, and by a short abstinence from food, and, as may be supposed, 
a recruit under such circumstances, will not greatly exert himself 



26 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIFJRS. 



I 



ill con({!iing^ or jumping. It sometimes happens that the protrusion 
of the intestine, and consequently the appearance of the disahility, 
does not take place until towards the end of tiie inspection, and par- 
ticularly after the man has been directed to put one knee on the 
ground. The inspecting medical officer should invariably direct 
his attention to the usual situation of hernia immediately before a 
man leaves the inspection room. Sometimes the existence of hernia 
is not detected except by the stain or discoloration of the skin in the 
neighbourhood of the groin, caused by wearincr a truss, an instru- 
ment which is occasionally found concealed under the clothes of a 
recruit. Hernia has been simulated by persons who possessed the 
power of elevating one or both of the testes to the rin^s of tfie ex- 
ternal oblique muscles so effectually as to deceive medical officers. 
Little or no dependence can be placed upon the allegations of a 
recruit, in regard to the previous existence of a disability, as it is not 
an uncommon circumstance for a man to regret having enlisted, 
and with the view of being rejected by a niedical officer, falsely to 
allege that he is occasionally affected with rupture, or some other 
disqualifying infirmity. Medical officers who inspect volunteers 
have not only to guard against being imposed upon by the con- 
cealment of diseases, but also by the simulatior] of infirmities. 

" En France, la visite des conscrits avait specialement pour but 
de leur prouver qii'ils etaient propres an service. En Angleterre la 
visite des recrues a specialement pour objet d'examincr s'ils ne sont 
pas impropres au service." {Force Mllitaire de la Grande Bre- 
tagne^ par Charles Dupin.) 

13. A varicose state of the veins of the scrotum, or spermatic i 
cord. Sarcocele, hydrocele, hemorrhoids, fistula in perineo. .^H 

A varicose enlargement of the veins of the scrotum {varicocele,)^^^ 
or of the spermatic cord (clrsocele,) is occasionally attended with 
pain and inconvenience during much fatigue, and consequently a 
man who suffers under either of these affections to any considerable 
degree may allege that ho is unable for a particular duty, such as a 
long marcli. Cirsocele seldom occurs, except on the left side. 1 
do not recollect having ever seen a well-marked case of it on the 
right side, although I have examined nearly 30,000 recruits. An 
enlargement of the veins of the cord is often much more evident 
at one period than at another, and hence a liability to this affection 
may escape observation during the time a recruit is under examina- 
tion. In a moderate degree, a varicose state of the veirjs of the 
spermatic chord or of the scrotum is rather a nominal than a real 
disability. I never had occasion to admit a soldier into hospital on 
account of this affection, and I believe many highly efficient recruits 
have been rejected in consequence of this alleged disqualification. 

Sarcocele. Any remarkable enlargement or induration of a tes- 
ticle disqualifies a recruit. 

Hydrocele. This affection is often very slight, and in that state 



INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 



27 



can hardly be considered a disqualilyino^ disabilily, bnt wlien there 
is any enlartrement of the testicle a recrnit should be rejected. 

On an averao^e of every 1000 recruits examined, I found one man 
in whom only one of the testicles had descended into the scrotum, 
and in about every 10,000 examined, one in whom neither of the 
testicles had descended. In some cases a testicle was situated in the 
ring, thereby simulating hernia. 

14. Impaired or inadequate efficiency of one or both of the inferior 
extremities on account of varicose veins, old fractures, malforma- 
tion, (flat feet, <fcc.) palsy or lameness, contraction, mutilation, ex- 
tenuation, enlargement, unequal leni!;th, bunions, overlying or 
supernumerary toes, ganglions, &c. (fcc. 

Varices, or an unnatural and permanent dilatation of the veins 
of an inferior extremity, is a defect in a recruit which sliould in 
general be considered as a cause of rejection. Under the term va- 
ricose, three difterent conditions of the veins of an extremity are 
sometimes comprehended, 1^^, a net-work of superlicial blue veins: 
2dli/, a large size of the veins without the functions of the valves 
being impaired ; 3rf/y, a preternatural dilatation of the veins, with 
a failure of the functions of the valves. In this state they frequently 
assume the appearance of a chain of cysts or bags, and the limb is 
commonly in some decrree enlaro;ed, the cellular menjbrane indu- 
rated, and the skin much disposed to ulcerate. The first and second 
conditions of the veins are of little importance, while the third in- 
capacitates a man for the army. In the early sta^e of this affection, 
the turgidity of the veins is sometimes not very apparent until after 
exercise ; hence the propriety of makins: a man walk smartly for a 
short period while he is under examination. 

Fractures. The same observations will apply to fractures of 
the inferior extremities which were made in regard to fractures of 
the superior extremities, No. 10. 

Malfonnation. Flatness of the soles of the feet (splay-footed) is 
the most common malformation in the inferior extremities among 
recruits. This deformity is found in every possible degree. Many 
of the slighter deviations from symmetry, however, do not dis- 
qualify a man for military duty; indeed, I believe a very small ratio 
of recruits is disqualified for the army on this account. Men who 
have the soles of the feet not merely flat, but in some degree con- 
vex, are ineligible as recruits; they are unable to walk steadily, or 
to undergo the fatigue of long marches with equal ease as men with 
well-formed feet. Great care should, however, l)e taken not to con- 
found broad but sufficiently well-arched feet with the deformity in 
question a mistake which I believe occurs very frequently. The 
arch of the foot is admirably adapted for saving the body from 
shocks by the elasticity of the supports, and for grasping the in- 
equalities of the ground in standing or walking. The heels and 
the balls of the toes are the two extremities of the elastic arch upon 
which the leg rests. In the action of walking the heel is raised, 



28 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



and tfie body supported by the muscles of the calf of the leor; the 
foot bends in some degree, and the weight of the body rests for some 
time on the toes. At each step the ankles and knee-joints are gently 
flexed, by which means the limb is made shorter or longer, as may 
be required, in different stages of the step, and thus the body is 
carried forward nearly perpendicularly. But when the sole of the 
foot is convex, the functions of the inferior extremities are greatly 
impaired ; the weight of the body rests upon the centre of the sole, 
nearly in a line with the leg, and hence a mis-shapen foot of this 
kind is, in some degree, as inapt for graceful or easy motion as a 
wooden leg. Owing to there being no arch, there is very little 
elasticity of the foot, and the motion of the ankle and knee-joints is 
greatly diminished. In the action of walking, the leg in motion is 
but little flexed, consequently the body describes, at each step, a 
portion of a circle, of which the middle of the sole of the foot is the 
centre. On this account, the body is constantly rising and falling, 
and moving from side to side. The disabling effects of decidedly 
flat or convex feet may be artificially displayed, by placing a body, 
such as tying a handkerchief under the arch of the foot, so as to 
make the sole flat, and attempting to walk. When the sole of the 
foot is convex, there is little or no motion of the ankle-joint in 
walking, the muscles of the calf of the leg become nearly useless, 
the person is incapable of running, the toes are turned out, the side 
of the foot is thrust forward in progression instead of the toes, and 
walking is performed in a shackled unsteady {shaughling) man- 
ner. Inexperienced examiners are apt to mistake large, broad, but 
in other respects, well-formed and highly efficient feet, for deformed 
ineffective feet, and, in consequence of erroneously concluding that 
a broad foot is a disqualifying defect, I believe that many efficient 
recruits have been thus rejected. I have been informed that the 
returns of one district show that a seventh of the recruits rejected, 
or about 5 per cent, of the men examined, were found unfit on ac- 
count of flat feet. Now, if 2000 men were taken indiscriminately 
on the street, I do not think above one individual would in general 
be found who walked so infirmly or so unsteadily as to disqualify 
him for military service. 

Flat feet were, I believe, first comprehended in the "Rules to be 
observed by medical officers in the examination of recruits," issued 
from the army medical department in August, 1821. 

On this subject I shall take leave to quote the excellent work of 
Coche on the Examination of Recruits, (p. 273.) He says, " Je ferai 
seulement remarquer, en passant, que celle si connue, sous la de- 
nomination de pieds plats (c'est-a-dire, n'offrant point de creux a 
leur partie inferieure.) ne saurait etre un motif d'exemption ni une 
cause de reforme du service militaire, quand Pindividu est bien con- 
forme d'ailleurs, et qu'il parait jouir de toutes ses facultes intellec- 
tuelles." ( Vide Note V.) 

Falsi/ or Lameness. The efficiency of the limbs relative to the 
exercise of marching should be carefully investigated. Recruits 



INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 29 

under examination for the Austrian army used to be obliged to 
walk upon wet clay, for the purpose of ascertaining-, by the impres- 
sion of the feet, whether both of ttie inferior extremities were equally 
efficient. Lameness is frequently feia^ned by recruits who wish to 
be rejected, and, consequently, a medical officer must sometimes 
exercise much discretion and caution before he either rejects or 
approves of a recruit who allecres that he is lame, provided there is 
no obvious cause of such an infirmity. In such cases disinterested 
evidence can scarcely be obtained. 

Contraction of a Joint. A permanent contraction of the flexor 
or extensor muscles of a limb implies incapacity for military ser- 
vice. This affection is occasionally the result of injuries received 
in early life. 

Mutilation. According" to the French code, a conscript is not 
exempted from servino^ on account of a mutilation of the foot less 
than the loss of a <rreat toe, or two other toes of one foot. The loss 
of a great toe incapacitates a man for the army, but a deficiency of 
any other toe of a foot is not of much importance. 

Extenuation. Frequent examples occur among recruits where 
one inferior extremity is from half to three fourths of an inch 
thicker than the other, without the function of the smaller limb 
beinof impaired. This condition of an extremity is to be carefully 
distinguished from partial atrophy, sometimes denominated blight^ 
which is characterised by considerable extenuation and want of 
firmness of the muscles, and the slightest degree of which ia de- 
cided cause for rejecting a recruit. 

Enlargement. It has been observed that the right arm is gene- 
rally larger than the left; but I am not disposed to think that the 
right leg is commonly thicker than the left. Sometimes one leg is 
disproportionately thick, and occasionally both are in this condition. 
In some cases the enlargement seems to be the result of an affection 
of the skin ; but whether a natural deformity, or a consequence of 
disease, a man is thereby disqualified for service in the army. 

Unequal length. This is not a rare occurrence. When the 
short extremity is not extenuated, and the difference between the 
length of the limbs not more than half an inch, 1 do not consider 
this a disqualifying defect : it is only a blemish, and not an ade- 
quate cause for rejecting a recruit. {See page 24.) 

Bunions. A bunion is a partial dislocation of the great toe, 
which commonly lies under or over the second toe. The projec- 
tion of the ball of the toe is occasioned by subluxation, and an un- 
natural separation of the distal extremities of the first and second 
metatarsal bones. Bunions are invariably a consequence of wear- 
ing short or tight shoes, by which means the foot is permanently 
maimed, and frequently a man is thereby rendered unfit for the 
army. 

Overlying, distorted, and supernumerary Toes. Any disa- 
bling infirmity of the feet is an important defect in a soldier; he 
7 d 3 mar 



BO MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

hocovnes soon faliirned, and is jr^'^neraliy unable to endure a lono; 
march. Supernumerary lf>es, whether in one or in both feet, de- 
cidedly disqualify a man for the army; because soldiers do not indi- 
vidually crt.'t shoes made for their feet. Gatt^lions are comnionly 
situated on the back of the foot, and frequently render the wearing 
of shoes irksome and pamful. 

15. Ulcers, or unsound cicatrices of ulcers likely to break out 
afresh. 

Cicatrices of ulcers when they adhere to the bone, and particu- 
larly if surrounded by discoloured or diseased intei-nnients, sFiouId 
invariably cause a man to l)e rejected. Attempts are sometimes 
made by recruits to conceal cicatrices, by covering them with paint. 

16. Traces of corporal punishment, (this circumstance is an un- 
qualitied cause of rejection in regard to recruits.) 

With the view of guarding against t!ie admission of exception- 
able characters into the service, the enlistment of recruits having 
marks of corporal punishment was prohibited by the con)mander- 
in-chief in 1818. I presume the prohibuion comprehends corporal 
punishment in a general sense, wfiether on the back or breech, and 
that it is not limited to military flogffin^. Marks of corporal punish- 
ment, including the mark of the letter D, do not disqualify a deserter 
for the army. Traces of punishment are commonly attributed to 
the consequence of a blister or scalding water by recruits. T'he 
mark^ of punishment are generally the result of ulceration, which 
is not an invariable consequence of flogging. T have seen several 
instances of men who received 500 lashes, without bearing the 
marks of having undergone corporal punishment. 1 am aware of 
one instance where a man who received 700 lashes, and ''was 
drummed out of a corps," re-enlisted and was linally approved; the 
medical officer who examined him was at first supposed to have 
overlooked the state of the back, but upon a subsequent examina- 
tion, no trace of punishment could be perceived. The ulceration 
which follows flocrging sometimes leaves extensive unsound cica- 
trices, which prevent a man from carrying his knapsack, and, con- 
.sequently, he becomes permanently disabled and until for the ser- 
vice. Frequently the mark of the letter D is scarcely apparent, 
probably from the imperfect manner in which the n)arkin;r operation 
was performed, and occasionally the obliteration seems to have been 
effected by means of artificial ulceration. When the tatooed mark 
is observed, the individual frequently alleofes that it was made by 
a priest, and that it is the initial letter of the word Jesus. 

17. Diseases, whether acute or chronic, for which medical treat- 
ment is required. 

Some exceptions to this rule may be admitted, such as scabies, 
smallincisedwounds, abscesses, (fee; but with respect to syphilis, and 
Other diseases, the duration of which is uncertain, they are adequate 



ROUTINE OF EXAMINATION. 31 

causes of rejection. To conceal g-oncrrhcca, cobbler's wax is some- 
times introduced into the urethra. 

VI. Every recruit is to be undressed before inspection, and it 
is directed that the examination shall be conducted agreeably to 
the following routine, by which means blemishes are not likely to 
escape detection. 

No man should be examined while he is intoxicated, and recruits 
who have been intermediately approved in the country ought fjot, 
unless under pressing circumstances, to be inspected the same day 
they arrive at a depot. Serjeants should be inslrucled not to brin^j 
forward a recruit for examiuation until his feet have been washed. 
Should it be discovered during the inspection of a recruit that he 
has formerly been in the army, he should not be approved before he 
produces his "discharge," or his Chelsea "instructions," by which 
means the cause of his leaving the service may be ascertained. 
( Vide Articles 40 and 41 of the Warrant for regulatmg the Pen- 
sioiia of Discharged Soldiers, 1829, and the Warrant of 1S33.) 
Discharged men who re-enlist, and deserters, who wish to re-enter 
the service, frequently omit to stale that they have been soldiers, 
and consequently it is of iuiportance to distinguish a man who has 
been in the army l>om the ordinary class of recruits. A well-drilled 
soldier is in general easily recognised, his posture is generally up- 
riglit, both when he is in motion and at rest; his chest is full, partly 
from an elevation of the sternum, and also from a greater develope- 
ment of the pectoral muscles; the shoulders are drawn back, and 
the scapulas nearly approach each otiier. When, however, he 
wishes to conceal that he has been in the service, lie sometimes 
assumes a slouching manner, which conimonly disappears when he 
is desired to march smartly backwards and forwards in the inspec- 
tion-room, and if the word "hall" be given, the influence of disci- 
pline becomes instantly evident. 

The examination of recruits has not hitherto l)een practically 
taught as a branch of medical education, and, like novices in other 
branches of information and duty, young examiners, who may not 
always be young officers, frequently arrive at very ditferent con- 
clusions from those who have had greater experience in this duty. 
Unaccustomed to frequent and careful examination of the human 
form, beiiinners do not readily discriminate the shades of ditference 
in the developement of tfie different organs of the body. Experience 
in this, as in all other branches of knowledge, is the best, indeed 
the only school where a medical officer can qualify himself for the 
accurate and skilful performance of the duty. 

VII. Upon entering the inspection-room, the recruit is to walk 
a few times pretty smartly across the apartment, for the purpose of 
showing that he has the perfect use of liis lower extreujities. He 
is then to be halted and set up in the position of a soldier under 
arms, with the knees about an inch apart, and examined both in 



3^ 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



front and rear, from head to foot. Should no material defect be 
discovered during this survey, the examination may go on. The 
recruit is then to perform in imitation of the hospital serjeant the 
followinor evolutions: to extend the arms at right angles with the 
trunk of the body, then to touch the shoulders with the fingers, 
next to place the backs of the hands together above the head ; in 
this position let him cough, while at the same time the examiner's 
hand is applied to the rings of the external oblique muscles. Let 
the inspecting officer examine the spermatic cord and testes, then 
pass his hands over the bones of the legs. The recruit next stands 
upon one foot, and moves the ancle-joint of each extremity alter- 
nately; when any doubt is entertained respecting the efficiency of 
this joint, or any part of an inferior extremity, he should be made 
to test his strength by hopping upon the suspected limb for a short 
period, and the size and aspect of the corresponding joint or part of 
the opposite limb should also be accurately compared. He is next 
to kneel on one knee, then on the other, and subsequently on both 
knees. Let him then stoop forwards and place his hands on the 
ground, and while in this position it ought to be ascertained whe- 
ther he be affected with haemorrhoids. 

He is then to extend the superior extremities forward, for the 
purpose of having his arms and hands examined, and with this 
intention he is to perform flexion and extension of the fingers, and 
to rotate the fore-arm. 

The head is next to be examined, including the scalp, ears, eyes, 
nose, mouth; the surgeon is then to ascertain that he possesses the 
function of hearing, and the faculty of distinct enunciation. In 
regard to the mental foculties, the inspecting medical officer should 
invariably ask a recruit a few short questions as what corps he 
belongs to, or what occupation he had previously followed, &.c. fec. ; 
or adopt any other means which he may deem necessary to ascer- 
tain the condition of the intellect. 

In oreneral, no dependence should be placed upon any account a 
recruit may give of his health and efficiency. Recruits are usually 
denominated volunteers, but, by the time they are brought to a 
medical officer, not a few of them would much rather be rejected 
than approved; so that they are quite ready to allege a cause of 
inefficiency, should an opportunity offer. Medical officers have 
therefore to guard against being imposed upon, not only by the con- 
cealment, but also by the simulation of infirmities. Were a recruit 
to be believed and rejected when he states that he is liable to an 
obscure or doubtful disease, such as epilepsy or incontinence of 
urine, very few men would pay smart money. Often have I been 
informed by the relations of a recruit, sometimes before examina- 
tion, and sometimes after it, that he laboured under a variety of 
disabilities, was idiotic, or liable to epilepsy. 

When a man is rejected, the cause of his unfitness is recorded 
in the recruiting register, and at recruiting depots the subdivision 




I 



ROUTINE OP EXAMINATION. 33 

officer is furnished with a copy of the entry. The pecuniary inte- 
rest of the subdivisional officer, and the parties under his command, 
is directly opposed to the rejection of recruits, and consequently 
the conduct of the staff-surg-eon in regard to the execution of his 
duty is narrowly watched by tliat branch of the service. 

When men are much required for the public service, the mini- 
mum height is lowered, and the period of life during which they 
may be enhsted extended, and vice versa. The supply of recruits 
is thereby regulated according to the wants of the army, without 
relaxing the regulations in regard to aptness, health general 
efficiency. 

VIII. The next point is to learn whether a recruit has passed 
through small-pox, or has been vaccinated. 

IX. When a recruit is approved, the attestation is to be filled \\f 
and signed by the inspecting medical officer. 

X. Under the head "Remarks and Observations," in the register 
for recruits, all incidental facts of importance in regard to each 
individual case are to be recorded, including the causes for which 
recruits have been rejected; blemishes, peculiar marks, (fee. 

XI. Sliould a medical officer, or a private medical practitioner, 
intermediately approve of a recruit who has a trivial blemish, such 
as a slight cicatrix on the leg, he is to inform the surgeon of the 
corps to which the man belongs of the circumstance. He is also 
to inform him when he detects a recruit, previously examined, sim- 
ulating disabilities; the requisite information on those subjects may 
be conveyed by means of attaching a slip of paper to a man's attes- 
tation. District surgeons are also directed to conform to this rule. 

XII. The signature of a medical officer to an attestation will be 
considered tantamount to a declaration, that he has personally 
examined the recruit in question, according to the routine mode 
above described, and that the ma!i had no blemish except as stated 
in the attestation. 

The routine mode of examination should invariably be adopted. 
It is impossible to urge this point too strongly on the minds of 
officers who have not had much experience in the examination of 
recruits. 

In the Austrian military service, when a medical officer approves 
of a recruit or a conscript, he is directed to stale in his certificate 
that tlie man declares he is in the enjoyment of good healfh, or 
rather that he is not atTected with any internal disease. This mea- 
sure is intended to obviate the simulation of disabilities after a man 
joins his reii^iment. In the British service, when a recruit is at- 
tested, he swears that he is not lame, and that he has no disability 
or disorder which impedes the free use of his limbs, or unfits him 
for ordinary labour. Nofwithstandin^r this precaution to prevent 
any but healthy efficietit men from entering into the army, disal>ili- 
ties are frequently alleged by a recruit on joining a depot or regi- 
ment, and occasionally his simple allegation on that subject obtains 



34 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



more credit than the oath he has taken, by which means he some- 
times succeeds in procuring his discharge. 

XIII. The certificate of surgeons or assistant surgeons of regi- 
ments, when they approve of recruits for the corps to which they 
themselves belong, will be considered final. 

XIV. Recruits who have been intermediately approved by a 
regimental medical officer, or by a medical officer on the staif under 
the rank of staff-surgeon, or by a private practitioner, are to be 
re-examined by a district staff-surgeon, or by a medical officer of 
the regiment to which they belong. SFiouId a district surgeon con- 
sider an intermediately approved recruit ineligible for the service, 
the man in question is to be reported to the inspecting field-officer, 
for the purpose of being brought before a board of medical officers, 

"whose decision in regard to his eligibility or ineligibility shall be 
final. Whenever a medical board cannot be assembled, a reference 
shall be made, by order of the director general, to any army medi- 
cal officer whom he may appoint, or he will, on the reports received, 
decide upon the case himself. 

It will appear, by this article, that all the men enh'sted in a re- 
cruiting district are eventually examined by the staff-surgeon of 
the district, except the few who ocrasionally enlist at the head- 
quarters of a regmient or depot, and are inspected by the medical 
officer in charcre. Those raised at the head-quarters of a recruiting 
depot are usually denominated '^iown recruils,'^ while those enlisted 
in other parts of the district are commonly named '-'- cowitry re- 
cruitsP When the staff-surgeon considers a country recruit ineli- 
gible for the service, and a medical board concurs in that opinion, 
he is commonly discharged. By a circular letter from the War 
Office, bearins: date 29th April, 1817, it appears that, in consequencQ 
of a number of recruits who had been intermediately approved by 
medical officers, having been rejected by the district surgeons on 
account of disabilities which ought to have been discovered, the 
Prince Regent directed that, in all such cases, the expense incurred 
on account of the recruits should be charged against the medical 
officer by whom they were passed in the first instance. In conse- 
quence of this order, a number of medical officers had to pay very 
heavy fines, and the ratio of recruits rejected was greatly increased. 
The regulation of the 29th April, 1817, was rescinded by a letter 
from the War Office, bearing date 1 ith March, 1822. 

XV. A similar course will be adopted with respect to interme- 
diately approved recruits, who may be deemed ineligible by a regi- 
mental medical officer of the corps to which they belong. Vide 
Form of Return^ Nos. I and 2. 

XVI. The certificate of a district staff-surireon, in regard to the 
fitness of a recruit for the service, will be deemed a final approval, 
in as far as respects a medical examination, except in the case of 
recruits for the Honourable East India Company's service. 



INELIGIBLE RECRUITS. 35 

*' Whenever a recruit, v/ho has been approved by a district staff- 
surjjfeon, joins the iiead-quarters of the regiment, whose fitness the 
reo-imental medical officer does not feel himself justified in confirm- 
ing, the reirimentiil medical officer is to transmit, through liis com- 
niandinof officer, to the Director-General of the Army Medical 
Department, a report of the case, showing in what tfje unfitness of 
the recruit consists, and whether, in the regimental medical officer's 
opinion, it has originated since the recruit was approved by the 
district stafT-surgeon." "^For Office Circular, 22d Dec. 1832. 

Hitherto this Article, (XVI.) has remained a dead letter, as far as 
the recrular army is concerned; or rather in practice it has been 
usually abrogated, the approval of a recruit by a siafT-surgeon 
being not more Jinal than the approval of one by a civil medical 
practitioner. Although a man is certified as fit for the service by a 
staff-surgeon, if he be deemed ineligible by the medical officer m 
charcre of the reserve companies, or regiment to which the recruit 
belon^fs, he is usually submitted to the decision of a board of Yiiedi- 
cal official's, in the same manner as is directed in Article XIV. i 
am not aware that any reason has been officially assigned for an?)ul- 
linof xVrticle XVI., and, consequently, 1 plead i^rnorance of the cir- 
cumstances which may have led to it. Reo-imental officers, I am 
aware, allege that they have a greater interest in selecting jjood 
recrtiits for the corps to which they belong, than staff-officers ; and, 
perhaps, on this account they liave obtained the privilege of disap- 
provino- of the decisions of the inspectins: field-officers and staff- 
surgeons of recruiting districts. A* staff-surgeon, who has been 
some time employed in the duty of inspecting recruits, is well 
aware that it is highly incumbent on him not to approve of a re- 
cruit who is unfit for the duty of a soldier, but he is also aware 
that it is equally obligatory on him not to reject men unless they 
are decidedly unfit for service in the army. The line of demarca- 
tion between these two points is so undefined, that I fear the most 
conscientious and skilful performance of the duty of a district sur- 
geon will not always avert censure, m consequence of beitig stip- 
posed to incline too much either to one side or the other. Were 
the medical boards, to which ineligible recruits are referred, com- 
monly constituted of officers v^ho have had more experience in the 
inspection of recruits than district surgeons, an appeal to their 
opinion and decision might be highly expedient and satisfactory^ 
but when a board happens to be composed of officers who have 
had little or no experience in this duty, and some of whom may 
never before have examined men with a view to their fitness for 
the service, its decision does not always give general satisfaction. 
^Safety is not insured by a "multitude of counsellors," except the 
counsellors have acquired wisdom from attention and experience. 
Tlie examination of recruits is a daily occupation with district sur- 
geons, and, provided they devote the requisite attention to the sub- 
ject, they are more likely to perform that duty impartially, skilfully, 



36 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



and correctly, in every respect, than officers who may not inspect 
ten recruits in a year. 

With regard to the importance of the duty of inspecting recruits, 
and the attention and care whicli is required to perform that duty 
well, I shall subjoin two extracts, one from the Austrian, and an- 
other from the Prussian official instructions on the subject; together 
with the opinion of two medical officers of Qreiit experience, one 
helon^inu: to the French, and the other to the Belgian army. 

The tirst extract is from the Austrian recruiting: reo-ulations : 
" The duty of inspecting- conscripts and recruits requires the utmost 
impartiality, skill, and circumspection, on the part of a medical 
officer: he ha.s to decide upon the fitness or unfitness of a man for 
the army, and if his decision be subsequently found incorrect, he 
becomes responsible for the consequences, and is liable to a penalty 
which will not be remitted." {Instructions from the Austrian 
War Office, January, 1809.) 

The second extract is from the Prussian regulations: "The 
duty of inspecting recruits, and of determining whether they are 
fit or unfit for the military service of the country, is one of the 
most difficult and responsible an army surgeon has to perform. To 
enable him to execute it correctly, and with suitable proniptitnde, 
he would require more knowledge and experience than is generally 
believed; he must possess an intimate acquaintance with anatomy, 
physiology, and pathology. A knowledge of these sciences is essen- 
tially required to qualify him to decide on the health and general 
efficiency of recruits, and to distinguish between defects that may 
be real from those that are only feigned. He must also be well 
acquainted with the duties of the dififerent classes of soldiers, infan- 
try, artillery, and cavalry, during war as well as in peace. The 
qualifications for performing so important a duly can be acquired 
only by lona: service and much experience. It is impossible to 
frame specific rules for the examination of recruits, so as to obviate 
every difficulty. In a great variety of cases, the decision must 
depend on the discretion and experience of the inspecting medical 
officer." Regulations for the Medical Examination of Recruits 
for the Prussian army. 

The examination of conscripts in France resembles, in some 
measure, the inspection of men who are alleged to be disabled and 
unfit for further service in the British army. In the French army 
the inspection of conscripts is conducted by a recruiting board, 
composed of civil and military officers, assisted by a medical officer 
specially appointed for the purpose, and to whom the tiile of inspec- 
tor is aiven. He does no^, however, form one of the board, being 
only its assessor, and conseqiiently has no vote in the deliberations. 
The duty of the medical rfficer has been summarily detailed in the 
followinor passage byBeaupre: "Conscripts are entitled to have 
their alleged disabilities exanjined and duly appreciated, for the 
purpose of being exempted from serving, should they be unfit for 



IMPORTANCE OF EXAMINING RECRUITS. 37 

the army. This right is founded upon two principles, namely, that 
of justice and humanity, and the interest of government. Medical 
officers who are employed on this duty should invariably be guided, 
in the opinion they deliver, by impartial justice and the strictest 
equity. Neither power nor prejudice should have any influence 
upon their decision; they are equally the advocates of the state 
and of mankind; consequently, they may be alternately called upon 
to defend the cause of government and to plead the rights of the 
people. Before they decide on the fitness of a conscript, they 
should invariably keep in view the irksonjeneiss of the profession 
and mode of life for which he is destined, more especially the con- 
straint occasioned by military equipment, the weiorht he will be 
required to carry, the fatigue of marching, the wearisomeness of 
long standing in the ranks, the toil he must undergo in the perform- 
ance of military manoeuvres, and the influence these circumstances 
may have on the health, particularly upon the organs of the chest. 
They should never forget, that a feeble, puny conscript or recruit 
rarely becomes an efficient soldier. Slight disabilities or diseases 
become aggravated by a military life; and a conscript or recruit, 
who does not possess adequate strength and health to enable him 
to execute his various duties without much fatigue, soon droops, 
infirm health supervenes, he is admitted into hospital, and in the 
course of twelve or eighteen months his disabilities render it neces- 
sary to discharge him from the service." {Beaupre sur le Choix 
des Homines^ ^'c.) 

Extract from a work by Dr. Fallot, Physician to the Belgian 
army, on the inspection of recruits, <fec. : " The duty of inspecting 
conscripts and recruits is not only an important, but a very difficult 
task, partly in consequence of the obscurity of the indications or 
symplon)s of some disabilities. But to ascertain the existence or 
the name of a disability, is not the only difficulty a medical officer 
meets with ; he has also to appreciate the disqualifying degree of 
an infirmity, for the purpose of deciding upon the fitness or unfit- 
ness of a man for the army. Rules and regulations on this sub- 
ject, however carefully they may be devised, and however minutely 
they may enter into detail, are but very imperfect guides. They 
furnish an outline, it is true, of the track which requires to be fol- 
lowed, but they do not enable us to escape the many mistakes into 
wliich we may fall. Whoever is employed in the duty of inspect- 
ing recruits ought to be intimately acquainted with the anatomy, 
physiology, and the diseases of the human body; and, above all, 
he should have devoted a long and careful attention to the practice 
of his profession for in this part of the duties of a medical officer 
there is no substitute for experience." Memorial dc Vexpert dans 
la visUe ^anitaire des Hnrnmes de Guerre. Par L. Fallot. 

In Belgium, when a physician or a surgeon is employed to exa- 
mine conscripts or substitutes for the army, he takes thf following 
oath : ^^ Jejure {promets) de 7ne conforrner exactement dans Vexa- 
men de la constitution physique^ tant interieure qu'exterieure des 



38 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

volo?italreSf inftcrits et remplagattt.'^, desis^nSs pour le service de 
la nt'dlce nntionale^ aiix dispositions arretCes par la loi sur cette 
milice, de declarer fraitchoment et de bonne foi^ sans haine vifa- 
venr^ s^ils sont snjefs a des maladies n/t des injirmil^s, qui les 
rendraient incapable de servir. Ainsi Dien me soil en aide^ 

Dr. Hamilton {Duties of a Resrimnntal Surgeon considered,) 
has very crraphically described the diflictilties which a medical offi- 
cer had to contend with in the inspection of recruits for the army 
abont the year 1782. "It is the surgeon's dnty (he says) to pass 
recruits, i. e. to examine whether men enlisted he fit for tfie service. 
In performino^ this, he labours under some difficulties ; for if this 
man be rejected by him as improper, the officer who enlisted fiim is 
ofTended, indeed, in all probability he is a gfreat loser; for if a re- 
cruit be not approved of, all that was given him is lost to the officer. 
But if, to please tFie officer, the suri^eon accepts, and siorns his niime 
to the sound list, he is blamed afterwards t)y the reo^iment, as wt^ll 
as by the commandinj]: officer, when it is discovered the man is 
always in the sick reports, and really unfit for a soldier. Hence he 
must be discharged; the king loses by him, and the service is in- 
jured. We liiay place this, however, among the surgeon's difficul- 
ties, for he oftentimes finds himself in a dilemma; and let him act 
as he will on these occasions, he may be sure of giving offence to 
some party. It is wrong to cheat the king and si^rii a falsehood; 
it is a pity to put an officer, who perhaps has only his pay to sup- 
port him, and is now under the increased expense of the recruiting 
service, to the loss he must sustain by rejecting- his recruit." Dr. 
Hamilton is, so far as I know, the earliest medical author who 
alludes to the duty of examininof recruits. I have not been able to 
learn when the assistance of uK^dical officers was first required in 
the examination of recruits in the British army. 

In addition to the diffi;"ulties attendino: the duty of the inspecting 
recruits, enumerated by Dr. Harnilto;!, a district surgeon, wfien he 
approves of a rerrnit who is subsequently deemed ineligible for the 
service by a medical board, is liable to be called upon by the gene- 
ral commanding in chief, and by the director-2:eneral of the medi- 
cal department, to give his reasons for passing him. The only 
reason which a district suro^eon can render is, that he considered 
the n^cruit fit for military duty; and as he can have but a very 
imperfect, if any, recollection of the man, what more can be ex- 
pected? In tr^neral, the members of medical boards have had but 
little practical acquaintance with the duty of inspectinor recruits, 
and, consequently, no great deference is usually paid to their opi- 
nion. It is not a rare circumstance for a district stafl^-suraeon to 
approve of a recruit who he knows had been formerly found unfit 
by a medical board. Indeed, a district surgeon who considered a 
recruit qualified for the service would not be warranted in rejecting 
him, merely on account of a difi^erent opinion having been expressed 
in regard to his fitness by a medical board at a former period. 

Colonel Robinson, \v'u> published A Letter to a General Officer 



IMPORTANCE OF EXAMINING RECRUITS. 39 

071 the Recruitiiig^ Service, in 1811, highly disapproved of the 
mode of inspection and ihe rejection of recrnils by district sur- 
geons, who, he says, "are so hampered by their instructions, that 
ihey cannot freely exercise their own jndijnient in fierforniinjj: their 
duty, and ijreat nnmbers of aclnaliy serviceable men are in conse- 
(]nen(e entirely lost to the arn)y." When Colonel Robinson pub- 
lished his letter, he was Inspecting; Field-Officer of the London 
district; and. as he had much experience in llie recruiting service, 
his opinion deserves careful consideration. 

Medical boards and military officers are commonly more credu- 
lous than district surg^eons, who find from experience that ihey are 
very liable to be deceived, if much dependence is placed upon the 
testimony of recruits regarding disabilities which have no obvious 
cause. When a recruit is attested, he swears that he does not suffer 
under any disability or disorder which impedes the free use of his 
liiiibs, or unfits him for ordinary labour; but sometimes, when a 
man joins his depot, he alleges that he labours under some disabil- 
ity, such as lameness, or dimness of vision, and on account of these 
alleged infirmities, recruits are occasionally found unfit for the ser- 
vice by a board. 1 have seen a copy of a letter from a staff-officer, 
hii^li in rank, serving on a foreign station, of which the following 
passage is an extract: "As old soldiers, who have been discharged 
and sent home, frequently are returned as recruits, and men suffer- 
ing from fractured skulls, with plates introduced into their heads, 
have found means to be enlisted," <fec. 1 have no doubt that men 
who wished to be discharged would relate such stories; but what 
opinion could they entertain of the common sense of the officers 
who credited their fictions? 

In the duty of inspecting recruits, officers of experience and ob- 
servation are guided, in a great degree, by their knowledge of the 
duties and habits of soldiers; whereas young officers, or officers 
who have liad but little experience in this particular branch of 
duty, are apt to be more influenced by the letter than the spirit of 
the "Instructions," and frequently consider men disqualified for the 
service, on account of a blenjish which a more experienced officer 
would not deem a disqualification for the service, or the existence 
of which they might think so doubtful as not to warrant rejection. 
I have known recruits who were approved by staff-surg:eons of 
much experience, and who were reported ineligible by reiiimental 
medical officers, and subsequently found unfit by medical boards, 
on account of allesred blemishes of a very unimportant or doubtful 
character; for example, a slightly enlarged state of the veins of 
the scrotnm ; imperfect execution of the ^^ goose step f^ loss of the 
first joint of the middle finger of the left hand; the cicatrix of a 
scald on the thigh, which vms not concealed by a kilt. A collec- 
tion of the alleged disabilities for f^hich medical boards have found 
recruits unfit for the service, would be both an amusing and an 
instructive document. 1 an) well aware that instances occasionally 
occur of recruits, respecting whose efficiency two officers, of what- 



(40 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OB^ SOLDIERS. 

ever standina:, rank, or experience in the army, nmy conscientiously 
entertain ditiereiit opinions, without any reflection upon the atten- 
tion or ability of either. 

XVII. To enable a man who secures a deserter to receive the 
usual reward, a certificate of his fitness for the service must he pro- 
duced to the maofistrate who commits him. In the examination of 
a deserter, medical officers will recollect that he is already in the 
service, consequently he should not be found unfit for military duty, 
unless he suffers under a serious disqualifying disability, such as 
would render it necessary to discharge a soldier from the army. 

Were a similar degree of strictness observed in regard to the fit- 
ness of deserters as of recruits, many a soldier who knew that he 
had a slight blemish, such as a little enlargement of the veins of a 
leg, or might easily feign one, would desert in the hope of being 
certified unfit for the S(rvice, and thus obtain his discharge, when 
he pleased to surrender himself. Deserters who are returned unfit 
for service receive a protecting certificate from the adjutant-general. 
I have inspected deserters who were brought to me with extensive 
sloughs on the legs, apparently occasioned by the recent applica- 
tion of aquafortis: to have certified these men unfit, would have 
been to become the dupe of their knavery. Deserters sometimes 
voluntarily mutilate themselves after they are taken, and before 
they are brought to a medical officer for inspection. 

XVIII. Every recruit wlio has not passed through small-pox, or 
vaccine disease, is, if possible, to be vaccinated by the inspecting 
medical officer; and if the exigencies of the service will not permit 
this to be done, the circumstance is to be reported to the surgeon of 
the corps to which the man belongs. 

XIX. The books required to be kept, in regard to this branch of 
the duty of a medical ofiicer, are : 

1. A register of recruits, which is to be ruled so as to contain 
the following heads : 

A. Date of examination. 

B. Regiment. 

C. Name of each recruit. 

D.~Age. 

E. Country of birth (as England, Ireland, or Scotland.) 

F. Previous occupation, or station in life. 

G. Small-pox or cow-pox. 

H. Remarks and observations. 

2. A letter and return book. 

3. A vaccination register. 

XX. Medical officers attached to recruiting depots will forward 
to the director general a numerical return, dated on the first of each 
month, of the recruits examined, with the numbers rejected and 
approved during the preceding month. 

XXI. District surgeons and regimental medical officers are 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



41 



directed to transmit to the director general an annual return of the 
recruits they examine. Vide form oj return^ No. 3. 

XXII. When district surgeons have the charge of sick, they are 
to comply with the regulations issued for the guidance of regimental 
medical officers in the exercise of their duty, and to forward similar 
returns. 

(Signed) J. M'G rigor j Director General. 

FORM OF RETURNS. 

No. 1. 

Return of (one or more recruits) who have joined the recruiting 
depot or regiment, and who, upon examination, have been con- 
sidered ineligible for his majesty's service. 



Date of 
Enlistment. 



Intermediately 
approved by 



Cause of 
Ineligibility. 



Signatures 



Surgeon. 
Commanding Officer. 



No. 2. 



Proceedings of a board of medical officers, assembled by order of 

for the purpovse of reporting upon the state of 

A. B., a recruit, who has been considered ineligible for service, by 

V Members of the Board. 



The board, having carefully examined A. B. a recruit belonging 
to regiment, who has been deemed ineligible for the service, 

by in consequence of [here insert the 

cause of the alleged disability^'] and tind that he [here describe 
the kind and degree of whatever disability he may labour utider,] 
we are of opinion that the above-named recruit is for the 

service. 

Signatures of the members / 
of the board. ( 

The decision of a board of medical officers is commonly conclu- 
sive, and the opinion or finding forthwith acted upon, but their 
proceedings are, however, liable to be revised ; at any rate I was a 
member of a medical board, which was called upon by the adjutant 



42 MARSHALL ON TIIK ENLISTING OF SOLDlftRS. 

general throng-li Dr. lleniiy, director orpneral of hospitals in Ireland, 
to assiirn reasons for the findinij vvliich we had t^iven in reirard to 
the inoriiciency of a recruit, and in consequence of which lie had 
been rejected. As fhe recrnit in question was not produced for a 
second examination by the hoard, the members had it not in their 
power to reconsider fhe evidence upon wfnch they had pronounced 
an opinion, natnely, the appearance of the man himself, and, con- 
sequently, could not revise tlieir finding and final decision in re- 
spect-to his unfitness. 

In Ireland, when a board was ordered to examine recruits who 
were considered ineligihle by a district staff-surgeon, or by the 
medical officer of a re<j^iment, it was customary, and perhaps the 
practice still prevails, to inform the members that, " in the event of 
the recruit beino^ pronounced unfit to be retained, it is desirable that 
the hoard should express its opinion as to the probability of his 
beinof unable to impose on the public by re-enterinii: the service;'' 
and when a recruit was found unfit, the board usually added, "that 
he is not likely to re-enter the service." Tiie question respecting 
" the probability of a recruit being again enabled to impose on the 
public," is often very difficult to solve. It involves two important 
points, ^/\9/, the cognizable and disabling nature of the infirmity; 
and secondly^ the talents, experierice, and judgment of the medical 
officers before whom he is brouo^ht for examination. The circum- 
stance of a recruit having been approved, appears satisfactory evi- 
dence of the possibility, if not the probability, of his being approved 
again, sliould he present himself for examination. 

No. 3. 

Return of recruits inspected at the recnnting depot or regi- 

ment, frooi the 1st January , to the 3lsr UeceiT.ber 

inclusive. 



Approved 
Rejected 

Total inspected 



CAUSES OP REJECTION. 

No. 

Unsound health ..... 

Weak intellect ..... 

Traces of scrofula ..... 

Muscular tenuity ..... 

Chronic cutaneous affections . . 

Specks on the cornea .... 

Cataract ...... 

Deafness . . . ... 

Loss of many teeth . . . . 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



43 



Defective condition oftFie superior extremities in conse- / 



(juenco o^f old fractures, contractions, <fcc. 6cc. 
Deformed spine .... 

Hernia, ingninal .... 
Laxity of the ring of the external oblique muscles 



{ Ri^hr side 
f Left side 
C Both sides 
< Ri^rht side 
/ Left side 



Varicose veins, left spermatic cord 
Ditto right ditto 

Disease of the left testicle 
Ditto of the ri^-ht ditto 

Hydrocele, both testicles 

Ditto riorht .... 

Hydrocele, left testicle 

Defective condition of the inferior extremities, in conse- 
quence of old fractures, malformation, &c. &c. 

Varicose veins of both lejjs .... 
Ditto of the riorht leg 

Ditto of the left .... 

Ulcers, wounds, or cicatrices of ditto 

Traces of corporal punishment 
ttc. &c. &.C. ( Vide Note, No. VI.) 

Obscure or doubffnl disabilities. The instructions relative to 
the inspection of recruits are more particularly calculated to prevent 
men from being approved for the army who suffer under concealed 
(dissiuiulated) disabilities; and when an army is recruited by volun- 
tary enlistment, this is certainly the class of infirmities concerning 
which a medical officer should be especially on his guard. But as 
many recruits regret enlisting before they are inspected, some of 
them endeavour to be relieved from enlistmetit, by alleging that 
they are liable to certain disabilities, sue h as vertigo, frequent head- 
ach, short sight, occasional haamoptysis, chronic rheunjatisnj, epi- 
lepsy, periodic asthma, incontinence of urine, weakness of memory, 
and partial lameness. A medical officer requires to be on the 
w<jtch,lest he should be imposed upon by the feiorning (simulation) 
of disqualifying infirmities, as well as to detect and recognise con- 
cealed disabilities. 

The following disabilities may exist without the knowledge of 
a recruit, and they may also escape the cognizance of a very care- 
ful medical officer, incipient consiinrptioii, aneurism, of an arte- 
rial trunk, lumbar abscess, certain degrees of iveakness of intel- 
lect. 

Efficiency required of different branches of the service. Ac- 
cording to Dr. .Tackson, the duty imposed upon medical officers in 
the inspection of recruits is, " not to select what is every way good, 
but to reject v/hat is absolutely unflt." The instructions, however, 
direct that no recruit is to be approved, unless he possesses " ade- 



44 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OP SOLDIERS. 

qnate strens^th for the duties which he may he called upon to per- 
form," and a medical officer will require to take into^ consideration 
the specific duties of different branches of the army, for which the 
recruit may be intended. 

Ordnance Department. Recruits for this branch of the service 
ought to be powerful athletic men. The duties of the field, and 
even of the arsenal, are laborious, and require great strength. In 
some respects, however, artillery-men undergo less fatigue than 
infantry of the line. They do not, in general, carry their knapsack 
on a march, and are little exposed to night duty. 

Cavalry. Dragoons are almost constantly employed either at 
drill or in the stables, but their duty is not commonly very fa- 
tiguing. As they do not carry their necessaries, a march does not 
add so much to their exertions as to those of infantry soldiers, and 
on active service they are generally much better protected from 
vicissitudes of weather. According to the Prussian regulations for 
the examination of recruits, an equal degree of care is not required 
in the examination of men whose chests are contracted, or whose 
limbs are ill-formed, if intended for cavalry, as if for infantry corps. 
The following blemishes do not disqualify men for service in the 
Prussian cavalry; the deformity usually denominated in-kiieed, 
cicatrices of ulcers on the legs, loss of a great toe, moderately de- 
formed feet, and flatness of the soles of the feet. 

Infantry. An infantry soldier does not usually undergo much 
fatigue during peace, but on active service he is exposed to perhaps 
greater fatigue than either artillery-men or dragoons. On a march 
he is obliged to carry his knapsack, accoutrements, (fee, which 
weigh about sixty pounds. He is also liable to much night duty. 
Infantry soldiers look sooner old than persons in civil life, so do 
sailors, a circumstance which perhaps depends chiefly on night 
duties and disturbed sleep. This branch of the army has always 
a larger proportion of sickness and perhaps of mortality than either 
the ordnance or cavalry, which probably arises from greater fatigue 
and more frequent exposure to the vicissitudes of weather. Re- 
cruits for the infantry should, therefore, as far as regards health and 
muscular capability, be selected with even more care than for ca- 
valry corps. 



45 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS 



Note I. Page 1. 

Form of Attestation. 

UNLIMITED SERVICE. 

ATTESTATION FOR REGIMENTS. 



QUESTIONS. 

To be separately asked by the 
magfistrate. 



ANSWERS. 

To be sworn to by the recruit. 



1. What is your name? ...... 

2. In what parish, and in, or ) In the parish of 
near what town, and in what V near the town of 
county, were you born? 3 in the county of 

3. What is your age ? Years, 

4. What is your trade or calling? . . 

5. Are you an apprentice ? . . . . 

6. Are you married ? 

7. Are you ruptured, or lame ; " 
have you ever been subject to 
fits; or have you any disabi- 
lity or disorder which im- \ 
pedes the free use of your 
limbs, or unfits you for ordi- 
nary labour? 

8. Are you willing to be attest- ] 
ed to serve in the regi- j 
ment of ) 
until you shall be legally dis- | 
charged ? J 

9. On what day, and by whom ) q .. 
were you enlisted?^ ... 

10. For what bounty did you en- 
list? 



m or 



Months. 



* The recruit cannot be attested sooner than twenty-four hours, nor later 
thau fonr days after his enlistment. 33cZ clause of Mutiny Act. 

7 e 4 mar 



46 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTMENT OF SOLDIERS. 

11. Do you now belong to the 
mililia?^ 

12. Do you belong to any other ) 
regiment, or to the marines, > 
ordnance, or navy ? . . . ) 

13. Have you ever served in the 5 
army, marines, ordnance, or > 



navy?2 



I do make oath that the 

above questions have been separately put to me; that the answers 
thereto have been read over to me ; and that they are the same that 
I gave, and are true. 

I do also make oath, that I will be faithful and bear true alle- 
giance to her majesty, her heirs, and successors, and that 1 will, as 
in duty bound, honestly and faithfully defend her majesty, her 
heirs, and successors, in person, crown, and dignity, against all 
enemies, and will observe and obey all orders of her majesty, her 
heirs, and successors^ and of the generals and officers set over me. 

So help me God. 
Witness my hand, 
Sworn before me^ at '] 



this day of 

one thousand eight 
hundred and 
Signature of the Magistrate. 



K Signature of 
\ the recruit. 



Witness present. 



ARTICLES OF WAR. 



First and Second Articles of the Second Section. 

1. " Any officer or soldier, who shall begin, excite, cause, or join 
in any mutiny or sedition, in any of our land or marine forces, or 
in any party, post, detachment, or guard, on any pretence whatever; 
or who, being present at any mutiny or sedition, shall not use his 

' The magistrate is directed, in putting the 11th question to the recruit, 
and before he receives his answer, distinctly to apprize the recruit, that if he 
belongs to the militia and denies the fact, he is liable to six months' impri- 
sonment. 

* If so, the recruit is to state the particulars of his former service, and the 
eause of bis discharge, and is to produce the certificate of his discharge, if 
he has it with him. 



I 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 47 

Utmost endeavour to suppress the same; or who, coming to the 
knowledge of any mutiny, or intended mutiny, shall not, without 
delay, give information to his commanding officer ; or 

2. ^^ Who shall desert from our service, (whether or not he shall 
re-enlist therein ;) shall suffer death, or such other punishment as 
by a general court martial shall be awarded," 

Description of 

Age, apparently 

Height Feet Inches. 

Complexion 

Eyes 

Hair 

Any distinctive mark. 

To witj } I oneof her majesty"'s justices 

) of the peace of do hereby certify 

that the above is the description of the recruit, 

and in my presence all the foregoing questions were 
put to the said that the answers written 

opposite to them are those which he gave to me ; and that the 1st 
and 2d articles of the 2d section of the articles of war were read 
over to him, that he took the oath of allegiance and fidelity, that he 
received the sum of on being attested this day, and 

that I have given him a duplicate of this certificate, signed with my 
name. 

{ Signature of the 
\ magistrate. 

SURGEON'S CERTIFICATE. 



I have examined the above-named recruit, and find that he has 
no rupture nor mark of an old wound or ulcer adhering to the 
bone: he is free from varicose veins of the legs, and has the full 
power of motion of the joints and limbs. He is well formed, and 
has no scrofulous affection of the glands, scald head, or other in- 
veterate cutaneous eruptions; and he is free from any trace of cor- 
poral punishment. His respiration is easy, and his lungs appear to 
be sound. He has the perfect use of his eyes and ears. His gene- 
ral appearance is healthy, and he possesses strength sufficient to 
enable him to undergo the fatigue to which soldiers are liable. I 
consider him fit for her majesty's service. He has the following 
particular marks or scars. 

Dated this day of 

Signature of 
Surgeon, 
Confirmed. Surgeon to Regiment. 

having been finally approved, I caused 



4S 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



his name, ao;c, date of attestation, and every prescribed particular, 
to be recorded in the regimental register, with the No. affixed 

to his name; and I certify that I am satisfied with the correctness 
of this attestation, and that the forms required by the mutiny act 
appear to have been complied with. 

jy^^^ { Sig7iatiire, officer 

\ commanding. 
Note II. Page 8. 
Extract from evidence delivered before his majesty^s coinmis- 

sioners for inquiring into the system of military punishments 

in the army ^ March 15, 1836. 
Field Marshall the Duke of Wellington. 

'' Question 5806. Has any mode ever suggested itself to your 
grace, by which a better class of persons might be induced to enter 
into the army, under the present mode of voluntary enlistment? I 
should say not. The objection to entering into the army, in my 
opinion, is the severity and regularity of the duty, the regularity of 
the discipline, and the life which the soldier is obliged to lead, and 
which you must oblige him to lead; the climates to which he is 
exposed, and the constancy of the service in those climates. I do 
not think that a better description of persons would be induced to 
enlist than at present, voluntarily, not even for any bounty, because 
the amount of the bounty is no consideration. * ** I do not think 
any bounty would procure the service of a belter description of men 
than is enlisted at present." 

Note III. Page 11. 
Statement of the mean ratio of mortality which occurred among 
the troops employed in the following stations^ from \st Janu- 



ary 



1831, 



to '^Ist December 1836, being a period of seven 



years. 



Mean annual ratio of 
Mortality per 1000 of 
all ages, from 1831 to 
i37. 


o ;o cc CO CO o o 05 1^ co to t^ co -- r-* c^ lo 


Annual ratio of Mortali- 
ty within the specified 
periods of life, per 1000 of 
ihe mean strength. 


^3^ 


t^ 00 n Tf< r- oj oo t- lo o r- CO o .-1 "o CO 
ooii-:Tj3coTj; coq63vo .-^oieotbcJ-^toco 
a oiOim tnoi o<ojt-co '^coooc^cMi-oooo 


??2o 


i-itot^os-^TfJ r-:^c^"i^ ocicrJcoi^cooo 
i-(r-i,-,<^jcocNj osrOTCO cooiooo-HTj*t^io 


^^s? 


o-qjiococo^ ooot-; rscooocr*;oc:;co 
^-^oicocoo ^t^oit-i cioodioadrj'oio 


GO O in ' ^t^i^t^OCi o o o t- CC O 00 OJ QC 


s 
o 

1 


^ g r Dragoon Guards 

S,^ \ and Dragoons, 

;c toi Household Cav. 

^:S L Foot Guards, 

Gibralter, 

Malta, 

Ionian Islands, 

Windward and Leeward 

Islands, 
Jamaica, 
Bermuda, - 

Upper and Lr. Canada, 
Nova Scotia and New 

Brunswick, 
Cape of Good Hope, 
Mauritius, . 
Ceylon, . 
New South Wales, 
Bombay, ... 
Madras, 
Bengal, ... 



[ 
I 




NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



49 



Noxious agents or causes of mortality exist in all countries, and 
these causes of mortality will have greater or less influence upon 
the human hody, in proportion to its conservative powers. The 
rate of mortality among a body of troops is therefore in some degree 
a test of the existence, and a measure of the power of these destruc- 
tive aofents. It has long been supposed that the conservative pow- 
ers of the constitution acquired strength by length of residence in 
unhealthy climates; but this inference or conjecture derives no con- 
firmation from statistical investigation, for example, the observation 
in regard to Jamaica, in the above statement, one man in seven dies 
annually in Jamaica, and the strength is usually kept up by young 
recruits, varying from 19 to 21 years of age. Now, if the conser- 
vative powers of tlie constitution gained strength by length of resi- 
dence in Jamaica, the ratio of mortality between the ages of 25 and 
33 should be very obviously lower than during the period between 
the ages of 18 and 25, but the reverse is the case, not only in regard 
to Jamaica, but also in regard to the Windward and Leeward 
Island station, and uniformly in all the other stations, both in the 
temperate and torrid zones. I may also state that the mortality of 
epidemics has been found to follow the general law of the mortality 



of age. 



Note IV. Pasfe 14. 



Estimate of the annual ?mmber of recruits required for the Bri- 
tish ariny. 

Statement of the effective strength of the British army employed at 
hojne, and on foreign service the number of deaths, and the 
ratio of mortality, together with the number discharged for a 
period often years, or from 1819 to 1828 inclusive. 









e . Effective 




c 






Fffective 




5 c strength, 





55^ 




Years. 


s^trenglh. 





S S 25tli Dec. 
%'P'S, F<ireign 
;- c ft Service. 

'^ 1 


^ 


'o%% 


Discharged. 




'25th JJee. 
at home. 


o 


S 






1819, 


53,380 


492 


0.9 


54,992 


3755 


6.3 


15,940 


1820, 


54,527 


740 


1.1 


50,557 


25H4 


5.1 


7,654 


18-21, 


37,988 


620 


1.6 


51,277 


2220 


4.2 


19,965 


1822, 


41,530 


560 


1.3 


46,709 


2692 


5.7 


7,300 


1823, 


40,786 


566 


1.3 


48,995 


1981 


4.0 


5,250 


1824, 


42,585 


651 


1.5 


49,888 


2257 


4.5 


4,925 


1825, 


57,048 


854 


1.6 


53,755 


3849 


7.1 


5,703 


1826, 


48,626 


1082 


2.2 


58,339 


4513 


7.7 


8,613 


1 1827, 


47,747 


824 


1.7 


58,440 3713 


6.3 


5,670 


H - 


46,193 


828 


1.8 


58,592 


28I4j 4.7 


4,471 


470,610 






531,534 






iMean 












iof ten 


47,061 


721 


1.5 


53,153 3037 


5.7 


8,549 


jyt^nrs. 








1 







50 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



General Abstract. 



Years. 


Strength. 


Decrement by deaths and discharges 


1819, 


108,372 


20,187" 


1820, 


105,084 


10,977* 


1821, 


89,265 


22,805* 


1822, 


88,239 


10,552* 


1823, 


89,781 


7,799 


1824, 


92,473 


7,833 


1825, 


110,803 


10,406 


1826, 


107,165 


14,208* 


1827, 


106,187 


10,207 


1828, 


104,785 


8,113 



1,002,144 
100,214 



123,078 
12,307 



Aggregate strength ) 
and decrement. \ 

Mean of 10 years, 

From this abstract it appears that the mean annual decrement of 
the army by death and discharges, for a period of ten years, amount- 
ed to 12.308; but an. exact or conclusive inference cannot be 
drawn from this circumstance in regard to the ordinary decrement 
by death and disabilities, and the annual number of recruits re- 
quired to keep up the strength of the army, inasmuch as it is more 
than probable that during the years marked with an asterisk the 
number of discharges may have been considerably increased by the 
reduction or disbandment of one or more regiments. The decre- 
ment by desertions, it will be recollected, is not included in the 
above return. In all likelihood, the annual number of recruits 
required to fill up the vacancies in the British army arising from 
death, discharges, and desertion, during a period of peace, will 
amount to about 11,000 or 12,000 men. 

Note V. Page 28. 

Flatness of the soles of the feet. {Circular addressed to the medi- 
cal officers of the Prussian army^ hy Gorcke, director-general of 
the 'medical department.) 

In the examination of recruits mistakes are often made by con- 
founding two different kinds of deformity of the feet, of which one 
is, in common language, termed flat feet^ the other broad feet. 
Want of due discrimination in this respect gives rise to errors on 
the part of a medical officer who is directed to examine whether a 
recruit be fit for military service. The following observations will, 
it is hoped, obviate such mistakes in future. In the flat foot the 
bones of the leg are for the most part natural ; there is, however, 
an irregularity in the manner in which the bones are placed on the 
foot, and in the relative position of their distant extremities with 
respect to the bones of the tarsus. The inner ankle is very promi- 



I 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 

nent, and is placed lower than usual. A hollow exists below the 
outer ankle, of a greater or less extent, according to the degree of 
the deformity. The dorsum, or back of the foot, is not sufficiently 
arched ; the foot is broader in the neighbourhood of the ankle than 
near to tfie toes. The inner side of the foot, which in a well- 
formed person is concave, is flat and sometimes convex. When a 
flat foot is placed on the ground, the sole projects so much on the 
inside that the finger cannot be introduced below it. A person with 
flat feet usually walks with his knees bent, and assumes an attitude 
like a man when he pushes forward a wheelbarrow. He rests upon 
the inner side of the sole, and the usual degree of motion of the 
ankle joint is impeded. 

Flatness of the soles of the feet is almost never seen among the 
higher ranks of society, and very rarely among females. Children 
under ten years of age are seldom affected with this deformity. 
It is therefore possible that the disposition to flatness of the soles 
of the feet may exist in childhood, although the full developement 
of the deformity does not take place until the body is nearly fully 
grown. 

The remote cause of flatness of the soles of the feet is not satis- 
factorily known. Individuals who have this deformity in one foot 
only, usually attribute it to an injury, as a sprain, &c. ; and when 
both feet are affected, they commonly aver that they have had flat 
feet from childhood. Whatever notion we may entertain of the 
origin of the deformity, it has no other foundation but conjecture 
or analogy. There is no reason for supposing that the bones, or 
even the ligaments, are diseased in flat feet. In all probability the 
deformity consists in a sinking of the arch of the os calcis, and a 
corresponding displacement of the astragalus, whereby the inner 
surfaces of these bones become the inferior, and the exterior sur- 
face the superior. When a foot is remarkably flat, it is not unlikely 
that there is a subluxation of the anterior articular surface of the 
head of the astragalus from the posterior articular surface of the os 
naviculare, and an elongation of some of the ligaments which con- 
nect the bones. These circumstances would give rise to the ap- 
pearances by which the deformity is distinguished, viz.: the altered 
position of the tibia and fibula, the flattening of the back of the 
foot, the convexity of the inner margin of the foot, the treading 
on the inner border of the sole, the peculiar gait, which depends 
on an unnatural degree of motion between the astragalus and the 
OS naviculare, the difficulty of moving the foot in consequence of a 
stretching of the ligaments. 

May not the deformity be owing to a displacement or flattening 
of the internal tubercle of the tuberosity of the calcaneum? Va- 
rious causes may contribute to this effect, namely, a tardy ossifica- 
tion of the bones of the tarsus; infirm health, or a feeble consti- 
tution, scrofulous liabit, ifec, and the constantly increasing weight 
of the body. Flatness of the soles ^ the feet is particularly ob- 
servable among the labouring classes of a community, which, per- 



52 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OP SOLDIERS. 

haps, may, in part, be occasioned by a practice which especially 
prevails among the poor, namely, that of placing children very 
early npon their feet. Scrofula seems to contribute to flat feet, and 
perhaps in a great degree on account of the weight of the swelled 
bellies of children, a very frequent symptom in this disease. Fe- 
males may be less liable to the deformity, because boys are earlier 
employed in laborious occupations than girls. 

By a very moderate degree of attention, a flat foot may be easily 
distinguished from a broad foot. In the broad foot, the bones of the 
leg are well placed upon the foot; the usual hollow exists under 
the inner portion of the sole; the back of the foot is arched, the 
foot is not disproportionately broad at the tarsus; the expansion 
of the foot commences with the bones of the metatarsus, and it is 
broadest near to the toes. Broad feet are usually more fleshy than 
flat feet. 

The function of walking is in no degree impeded by this slight 
deviation from the regular form of a foot, which consists simply in 
an extension of the lateral ligaments of the heads of the metatarsal 
bones, occasioned, in all probability, by much use of the feet. It 
will therefore appear that men with broad feet, in consequence of 
being much inured to walking, are particularly well adapted for 
active military duty, more especially in the infantry; while men 
with flat feet are totally unfit for the army. When the deformity 
is considerable, a man is incapable of marching easily, for the feet 
swell, and the soles get chafed. A flat-footed man wears his shoes 
on the inside, so that the shoe of a person who is thus deformed 
may be readily discriminated. 

The remote and proximate causes of this deformity are still but 
very imperfectly known, and it is therefore much to be wished that 
army medical oflicers would avail themselves of every opportunity 
which offers to investigate the subject. To do this effeclually, 
deformed feet should not only be carefully inspected, but the parts 
of the foot ought to be examined after death. By this means we 
may be able to attain greater certainty in regard to the cause of 
the deformity, and perhaps to discover a rational plan of treatment. 

Berlin, July 31, 1818. 

Note VI. Page 43. 

Oil the examination and rejection of recruits. 

I have stated in the text, page 34, that the order which rendered 
medical officers approving of recruits who were subsequently re- 
jected on hnal examination, liable to defray the expenses incurred 
on their account, was rescinded by the secretary at war in March, 
1822. But although the order issued by the secretary at war was 
then cancelled, it will appear by the following circular letter from 
the adjutant-general, that medical officers continue to be liable to 
heavy penalties from the ^mtnander-in-chief for alleged profes- 
sional delinquencies regarding the approval of recruits. 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



53 



Recruiting Department. 

(Circular.) 

Horse Guards, 14th August, 1824. 

Sir, It appearing by reports which have been made to the 
commander-ill-chief, that of the recruits which are raised, more 
especially for foreign service, the majority are of an ineligible de- 
scription, notwithstanding the minute and positive instructions which 
have from time to time been issued for the guidance of those who 
are charged with the recruiting inspections, the commander-in-chief 
is at length obliged to declare that his royal highness will consider 
it to be his duty to recommend the immediate removal of the staft 
of any district, which, after the present warning, shall be reported 
to have produced objectionable recruits, as well as to fix on the 
culpable officer in every practicable case, the expense attending the 
enlistment of a subsequently rejected recruit. His royal highness 
finds that, however the instructions as to stature may be kept sight 
of by the inspectorial authorities, those relating to the general 
appearance of the recruit are overlooked. His royal highness, 
therefore, applies this caution more particularly to points connected 
with the constitutional appearance, mould of chest, size of bone, and 
likelihood of growth of the recruit. I have, &c. 

(Signed) H. Torrens, A. G. 

The inspecting field-officer J 
District. 

In practice the circumstances or causes on account of which 
recruits are rejected, may be arranged under three classes: 

\st. Diseases or deformities which a medical officer, from his 
professional knowledge and acquaintance with the duties of sol- 
diers, concludes are infirmities which disqualify men for service in 
the army. 

2d. Slight blemishes which do not disqualify a man for the 
army, but which an unwilling soldier may exaggerate, and%allege 
that he is thereby rendered unfit for military duty. An old fracture 
may be considered a type of this class of blemishes. 

3g?. Unimportant deviations from symmetry, or slight variations 
from the usual form or condition of the body, technical or nominal 
blemishes which do not incapacitate a man for the army, or in the 
SQiallest degree impair a man's efficiency. Recruits are commonly 
ignorant oi" the existence of this class of causes of rejection. A 
lateral deviation of the spine, broad feet, loss of a few teeth, may 
be given as types of this class. District staff-surgeons reject 
recruits who come under the first two classes, from a conviction 
that they render a man unfit or ineligible for the army; but those 
under the third head are frequently rejected from fear of responsi- 
bility a dread of an epistolary correspondence if objected to by 



54 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OP SOLDIERS. 



regimental medical officers, and an ultimate loss of professional 
character. 

The following returns of recruits examined at the Centre 
recruiting district (Dnblin) during the years 1825-28, comprehend- 
ing part of the 'period I was attached to the staff of the Dublin 
district, will show the causes of the rejection of recruits, and the 
relative frequency of each disability. 

Return of recruits inspected at the recruiting depot, Dublin, (Cen- 
tre recruiting district) from 25th December, 1824, till 24th 
December, 1825. 

Approved, - - - 4839 

Rejected, - . . . 1390 



Total inspected. 



6229 



Causes of Rejection. 



Ophthalmia tarsi, ..-.-- 
Pulmonic diseases, - - . . - 

Epilepsy, -.....- 

Weakness of intellect, - - _ . - 

Unsound health, ------ 

Traces of scrofula, ----- 

Syphilis primitive, ------ 

consecutiva, . _ - - . 

Gonorrhoea, ------- 

Chronic affections of the skin, - . - - 

Tinea capitis, or traces of this affection, - - - 

Muscular tenuity, _ . _ . - 

Nebulous obscurity of the cornea, - . - . 

specks on the cornea, - - - - 

Cataract, _._-__- 

Closed pupil, ------ 

Amaurosis, ------- 

Strabismus, ------ 

Purifofm discharge from the ears, - - - - 

Deafness, .-..--- 

Loss of teeth, diseased gums, &c. , - . - 

Enlarged tonsils, - - - - - 

Narrow chest, _-*--- 

Depressed sternum, ----- 

Deformed spine, ------ 

Defective condition of the superior extremities from malforma- 
tion, contractions, mutilations, ganglions, &c. 
Deformed pelvis, ------ 

( both sides, - - _ - 

Hernia, inguinal < right side, - - - - 

( left side, - - - - 

ventral, ------ 



3 

2 

3 

7 

158 

68 

26 

3 

3 

5 

15 

30 

3 

30 

7 

7 

2 

2 

10 

3 

22 

L 

10 

14 

55 

90 
7 
1 
14 
17 
44 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 65 

Hernia, umbilical, - - - - - 6 

Laxity or enlargement of both rings, - - - 19 

of the right, . _ . 6 

of the left, - - - - 56 

Varicose condition of the veins of the left spermatic cord, 46 

Right spermatic process unusually large, - - - 3 

Left testicle strangulated in the ring, - . - 1 

Hydrocele, - - - - - - - 8 

An unusually large state of both testicles, - - 3 

of the right, - - - 3 

of the left, . . - 10 

Defective condition of the inferior extremities from malforma- 
tions, nodes, exostosis, mutilations, misplaced toes, gan- 
glions, &c., .-_-.- 155 
Varicose veins of both legs, _ - . . 35 

of the left leg, - - - - 71 

of the right leg, - - . - 64 

Ulcers, cicatrices of ulcers, wounds, <fec. _ - - 138 

Old fractures, ..-..- 18 

Tumours, - -- - - - -7 

Flatness of the soles of the feel, - - - - 34 

Traces of corporal punishment, - - - - 36 

Men who have been in the army, but who refused to show their 
discharge, _-_.-- 3 

Total, - - - 1390 

Abstract. 

Inspected. Approved. Rejected. Per cent, rejected. 
Town recruits, 3315 2226 1089 32.8 

Country recruits, 2914 2613 301 10.3 



Total, 6229 4839 1390 22.3 

(Signed) H. Marshall, 

Staff- Surgeon. 

According to the above abstract, it appears that 32.8 per cent, of 
the town recruits, or first inspections, were rejected, and 10.3 per 
cent, of the country recruits, or second inspections. 

Of the 2914 country recruits who had been examined and ap- 
proved in the country before they arrived at the depot, 585 were 
deemed ineligible for the service, of which number 20 were found 
unfit and discharged by the inspecting field officer, 284 were found 
fit and 281 unfit by medical boards, the total finally unfit being 
301, or 10.3 per cent. 

Return of recruits inspected at the recruiting depot, Dublin, from 
25th December 1825, till the 24th December 1826. 



56 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OP SOLDIERS. 

Approved - - 3,243 

Rejected - - - 775 

Total inspected - 4018 

Causes of Rejection. 

Unsound health, ... - - 71 

Weak intellect. --.... 3 

Traces of scrofula, .... - 52 

Muscular tenuity, - - - - - - 27 

Chronic cuticular affections, ... - 7 

Traces of tinea capitis, ..... 4 

Ophthalmia tarsi, _ .... 10 

Obscurity of the cornea, - - - - - 8 

Specks on the cornea, - - . - - 39 

Closed pupil, ...... 1 

Amaurosis, - _ . . - . 1 
Cataract, - - -. - - - -2 

Puriform -discharge from the ears. ... 5 

Deafness, ..-..--2 

Loss of teeth, - - - - - - 12 

Impediment of speech, . _ . . - 5 

Enlarged tonsils, - - - - - 1 

Narrow chest, sternum in some cases protruded, - - 6 

Contraction of the chest, _ . - . 2 
Defective condition of the superior extremities, on account of old 

fractures, contractions, mutilations, extenuation, <fcc. - 45 

Projectinof scapulae, ----- 2 

Deformed spine, - - - - - - 19 

Deformed pelvis, ----- 3 

Hernia, inguinal, both sides, - . - - 1 

right side, - - - - 6 

left ----- 7 

~ ventral, ------ 3 

umbilical, ------ 1 



Laxity of both rings, - - - ' - - 7 

' right ring, - - - - - 6 

left ring, ----- 17 

Spermatic cord, right side thickened, - - - 3 

Varicose veins, left spermatic cord, - - - 18 

Riffht testicle strangulated in the ring, - - - 1 

Both testicles unusually large, . - - - 1 

Right testicle unusually large, ... - 1 

Left testicle unusually large, - - - - 3 

Hydrocele, both testicles, - - - - - 4 

right testicle, .... 5 

left ditto, ----- 5 

Gonorrhoea, ------ 3 

Syphilis primitiva, - - - - - - 17 



' NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 57 

Syphilis conseciitiva, . . - . - 2 
Defective condition of the inferior extremities on account of old 
fractures, malfornfiation, extenuation, nodes, nnisplaced toes, 

supernumerary toes, contractions, ganglions, <fcc. - 86 

Varicose veins, both legs, - - - - - 13 

of the right leg, - - - - 47 

of the left, - - - - - 36 

Ulcers, wounds, and old cicatrices, - - - 66 

Traces of issues, chiefly on the back of the neck, - - 16 

Traces of fracture of one or both of the clavicles - - 17 

Flatness of the soles of the feet - - - - 16 

Traces of corporal punishment on the back - - 37 

on the breech - - 2 

An old soldier failed to show his discharge - - I 

Total 775 
Abstract. 
Inspected. Approved. Rejected. Per cent. Rejected. 

Town Recruits 2347 1675 672 28.6 

Country Recruits 1671 1568 102 6.1 



Total 4018 3243 77^ 19.2 

(Signed) H. Marshall, 

StaffSiirgeon. 
Return of Recruits inspected at the Recruiting Depot, Dubhn, from 
the 25th of December 1826, till the 24th of December 18i^7. 
Approved, -' - 2006 

Rejected, - - 582 



Total inspected, 2588 

Causes of Bejectiofi. 

Unsound health - - - - - - 48 

Discharged from the service on account of visceral disease 4 

Weak intellect .--._. 5 

Traces of scrofula - - - - - 28 

Muscular tenuity - - - - - - 28 

Chronic cutaneous affections - - - - 10 

Traces of tinea capitis - - - - - 7 

Wen on the head - - - . . _ 1 

Ophthalmia tarsi -.-..- 7 

Obscurity of the cornea - - - - 11 

Falling down of the eyelids . . . . l 

Specks on the cornea ----- 26 

Fistula lachrymal is _ . . - . l 

Cataract - - - - - - 12 

Strabismus .--._. 3 

Puriform discharge from the ears - - - 2 

Deafness -..--.- 1 



58 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

lioss of teeth ------ 8 

Impediment of speech - - - - - 2 

Transverse cicatrix on the front of the neck, supposed to be the 

result of an attempt to commit suicide - - - 2 

Excessively large tonsils . - - - 1 

Want of due capacity of the chest - - - - 4 

Defective condition of the superior extremities on account of old 
fractures, contractions, mutilations, extenuation, deformity, gan- 
glions. <fec. (fcc. . - . - - 49 
Fracture of one or both of the clavicles - - - 5 
Deformed spine ------ 8 

T 1 u ^ no-hi side - . - - 7 

Inguinal hernia, j ^^^ ^.^^ ... - 6 

Ventral hernia ------ 3 

Laxity of the ring ) both sides - - - 10 

of the external > right side - - - - 7 

oblique muscles, ) left side _ - - - 6 

Varicose veins left spermatic cord - - - - 10 

Left testicle strangulated in the ring . - - 1 

Both testicles unusually large - . . - 1 

Left testicle enlarged ----- 3 

Gonorrhoea ------ 1 

Hydrocele, both testicles - - - - 2 

right ------ 4 

left ------ 5 

Syphilis primitiva - - - - - - 5 

consecutiva ----- 3 

Defective condition of the inferior extremities from old fractures, 
malformation, extenuation, enlargement, disproportioned length, 

bunions, ganglions, (fee. - - - - - 65 

Varicose veins of both legs - . - - 7 

of the right - - - - - 28 

of the left - - - - 39 

Ulcers, wounds, or cicatrices of injuries - - 48 

Traces of issues, chiefly on the back of the neck - 9 

Flatness of the soles of the feet - - - - 16 

Traces of corporal punishment on the back - - 23 

Mark of the letter D under the left arm-pit - - - 1 



Recruits. Inspectec 

Town Recruits 1778 
Country Recruits 810 

Total, 2588 





Total, - 582 


Abstract. 




Approved. 


Rejected. Per cent. Rejected. 


1253 


525 29.6 


753 


67 7.09 


2006 


582 22.5 


(Signed,) 


H. Marshall, 




Staff-Surgeon. 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 59 

Return of Recruits inspected at the recruiting depot, Dublin, from 
25th December 1827, to 24th December 1828. 

Approved, - - 829 

Rejected - - 285 

Total inspected, 1114 

Causes of Rejection. 

Unsound health - - - - - - 25 

Weak intellect - - - - - - 1 

Traces of scrofula - - - - - -11 

Muscular tenuity - - - - * - 38 

Chronic cutaneous affections - - - - 3 

Traces of tinea capitis ----- 2 

Baldness - - ... - 1 

Obscurity of the cornea - - - . 3 

Falling down of one of the eyelids - - - . 1 

Specks of the cornea ----- 2 

Cataract - - - - - - - 1 

Amaurosis ------ 1 

Loss of teeth - - - - - - 5 

Impediment of speech ----- 2 

Loss of the soft palate - - - - - 1 

Want of due capacity of the chest, - . . 7 
Defective condition of the superior extremities, on account of old 
fractures, contractions, mutilations, extenuation, deformity, gan- 
glions, (fee. - - - - - - 14 

Deformed spine ----- 10 

Hernia, inguinal, ri^ht side - - . - - 8 
left side - - - , 1 

Laxity of the ring of the oblique muscles, j jJa cj!]g^^' _ " 7 

Varicose veins left spermatic cord - - - 6 

Right testicle strhngulated in the ring . - - 2 

Left testicle enlarged - - - - - 1 

Right do. do. ----- 3 

Gonorrhoea ------ 1 

Hydrocele right testicle - - . - \ 

left do. ------ 4 

Syphilis primitiva . . . _ _ 4 
Defective condition of the inferior extremities from old fractures, 
malformation, extenuation, enlargement, bunions, ganglions, 

&c. - - - - - - - 35 

Varicose veins, both legs - - - _ 3 

right leg - - - - - 15 

left leg - - - - - 12 

Ulcers, wounds, or old cicatrices - - - - 19 

Traces of issues chiefly on the back of the neck - 5 



60 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 



Flatness of the soles of the feet 

Traces of corporal punishment on the back 



21 
9 



Total, 



285 



Town Recruits, 
Country do. 

Total, 



Examined. 
841 
273 



Abstract. 
Approved. 

.570 

259 



Rejected. Per cent. Rejected. 
271 32.2 

14 5.1 



1114 



829 
(Signed) 



285 25.5 

H. Marshall, 
Staff-Surgeon. 



Abstract of the preceding returns for four years. 

Ratio per 
Inspected. Approved. Rejected, cent, rejected 

Town Recruits, 8281 5724 2557 31 

Country Recruits, 5660 5193 475 8.7 



13,949 



10,917 



3032 



21.8 



This abstract shows, that, for a period of four years, 31 pei* cent, 
of the town recruits (first inspections,) examined at the Dublin 
depot, were found unfit for the army ; and 8.7 per cent, of the coun- 
try recruits (second inspections), the mean being 21.8. But it is 
obvious that this abstract does not comprehend the men rejected at 
first inspection in the country. 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



61 



Note VII. 

Town and Country Recruits. 

Table showing the relative proportion of Town and Country Re- 
cruits rejected at the head-quarters of the Dublin, Edinburgh, 
and London Districts, during the following periods : 



DUBLIN. 

Town Recruits. 


1826 


1827 


1828 


1829 


1830 


1831 


1832 


1833 


1834 


1835 


1836 
I5m. 


1837 


No. examined- 
Of these rejec 
Cent, ratio rej. 
Country RecrHs. 
No. examined. 
Of these rejec. 
Cent, ratio rej. 

EDINBURGH. 
Town Recruits. 
No. examined. 
Of these rejec. 
Cent, ratio rej. 
Country RecrHs. 
No. examined. 
Of these rejec. 
Cent, ratio rej. 

LONDON. 
Town Recruits. 
No. examined. 
Of these rejec. 
Cent, ratio rej. 
Country RecrUs. 
No. examined. 
Of these rejec. 
Cent, ratio rej. 


2347 
672 
28.6 

1671 
103 
6.2 


1778 
52 
29.5 

810 
57 
7. 


841 
271 
32.2 

273 
14 
5.1 


731 
310 
42.4 

92 

9 

9.8 


648 
4J3 
63.7 

^^ 

12.3 

5 


721 
415 
57.3 

682 

88 

12.9 


572 
325 
56.8 

266 

63 

23.7 


695 
397 
59.1 

356 

97 

27.2 

494 
215 
43.5 

73 

8 
19.6 

1363 
463 
34. 

375 

79 

21.1 


413 
296 
71.7 

177 

41 

23.2 

373 
211 
56.5 

32 

el 

1479 
614 
45.1 

219 

4S 

21.9 


376 
208 
55.3 

193 

34 

17.6 

390 
189 
48.5 

107 

17 
15.9 

1764 
677 
38.4 

325 

70 
21.6 


691 
281 
40.7 

449 

48 

10.7 

442 
216 
48.9 

121 

18 

14.9 

2972 
1069 
36. 

691 
108 
15.6 


957 
445 
46.5 

571 
132 
23.1 

563 
265 
57.1 

51 

7 

13.7 

3086 
1305 
42.2 

789 
139 
17.6 



By this table it appears that the range of the rejections of town 
recruits in Dublin extends from 28.6 to 71.7, being a difference of 
43 per cent. ; and of the country recruits from 5.1 to 27.2, showing 
a difference of 22 per cent. 



7~f 



5 mar 



62 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



O 



^ 






"^ 




^ 








c.> 




*^ 




5T5 




J^ 





^ 




- 




bn 


'^ 




5 


^ 


S"^ 


^ 


.13 


<to 




eo 


) 










55 




c^ 


"^ 


^ 


60 




^ 




.2 


1 


Q 


<^ 


^f) 


<a3 








'^ 






o 


"*^ 


511 


5^ 


ct; 


1^ 


^ 


0? 




W 




<0 




< 








OJ 








"to 




!?! 




ss 




e 




,9 





SUUI) 
-0 jfoj JO UllB^ 



'papofay 



pauuuuxi* -OS. 



SUOfl 

-oafoj JO onen 



pdjoafoa 



-pauiuicxi) "OiV 



suoii 
-oafoj j'j oiiBH 



pajaafag 



pauiujBxa 'Of^ 



siioij 
-oafaa jo oiiua 



papofaa 



-pauimexa -o^ 



suoii 
aofoj JO oi;bh 



papafaH 



pauiiuBXa OM 



suoij 
o-ifaj jooiiBH 



papafaa 



pauiiuBxa -ojyi 



:d;gay.?;gj;=2;^'a"s' 



iC Gl OU <0 Vi t-~. in !^: r^ a ifi ^ 

c r^ " ' c< CI CI fc 6$ Ol 



-" !- c; at w I- T T CO ; 



,^.'^^,f,F,^.n'- 



OC t- .X -^ c: 



f^ :>J ; w . C; -T -= 'i! M, TT 

1 r^ c: -^ .-> lO -f M 



ss 



05 0i"r?5rnicri ^'O 
^ s "-1 1-1 o o r^. i-i " i". 



i O S J I - 03 c 



I t^ M CO Ci CiO , 



X; r-i ju O a> 

1- -^ lO -jj I- c 



! ^ " rj .-o .-'. C5 o c: '-; 



^ 'J _^. S5 O O <0 
CO o Ti< rr r- r^ a. 



C( C rl !U I 



"V (N ^ ao -.s 



1 I- lO s< ^ c* 
' XI -^ CO * o 






(J< O T ^ -^ 
Qtl^ U^ !3 



Si *~ !" : 

o S i^ 



O lO ~ C- l~ 

<r ju -. o C 

CO C5 Ji- 3C 

C-i ?-^ 



CO O 00 O l^ 

t^ :s O 00 

-H rl C< fO CO 



; cj c; T-1 I-. cr. i^ rr 



' CN S- C CI c 



CO -sC 1-; 
^O -^fO 

V eo CO CO 



I- CO O CO 'T to O XI t- CO - 
o CO rjc f -^ r-i 1^ r- c ro to c 

-1 r-l p-l CI CI CO CO * TT CO r^ 



CI o ut in 

CI l^ t^ -^ 

7 CI ifl 

-H r-C< ' 



'T' tS C.-2 o o 



suoij 
-Dafaj JO "oijB'a 



papafag 



pauiiuRxa -o^ 



suoij 
-Dofaj JO oiiBH 



papafaa 



-pauroiBxa oj^ 



I- r^ ;c O lO t^ 



!CICOCICOCI rlCOCIC^COr-tfoi 



O X) -v3 00 1^ * CI c; 



=-. c> o g; --;- ! 



^ * t^ r- 3; " 

-^ C-. CI c^ ^ 
o o 35 a: O 



CI -o r^ . 

ocoG o: 
OOX >rr-rc 



(OCOC5 

i --o .o "x; 
(cixco 



t^ (^ CO -^f 



CI X >o c; * '-I X i^ 00 i~ 00 i*< 
tc CO co" ci t-^ ic ci --o t~i o oJ ko 

,_r^rt 1-Hf-^CICOfOCIC* 



-. X >0 'r .T- CH^ ~ i - -i; CI ^:r: 

.-^-((-^Tp-Tfcioo-^oriCi 

C -H CI CI r- ^ ,-, r-. CI 



CI -T -^ 'f CO CO CS C3 



suop 
oafaa jo oi)Ba 



Ci -O C-. 00 13 T)< X C5 



paioafaa 



pauiuiBxa 'o^ 



o C} CI ic -X) X 3 vs ro CO . t 

eoco^o-<r-,si.o-<j<oxxa6 



suoijaafajjooii 
-Bi iBuusajuao 



paiaafay 



'p.iuiiueva -ojj 

2 



-J3 "* C> 

o ::: I- 1 

CO CO CI! 



O >0 . CO d IC lO LO X X CO ' lO C-. i^ 



<oor5i-iciO"OCiocr. ccox-^r-dc-. t- 
iosoLOt^ocr. i^ XX CI oxaiC0Ti<cr- 
>o--oc-. cr. or:t^<ocicof>o:o-vcocicoio 



I CO O CO O X cr- c~. X T CO CI CO X O cr. I 
!CXXXfOOOCI X-'J'CIOOCOiOcncD- 
iXI^XCiCI "OdOiO Xl-rpoOOiOlO' 



I--Q0CsO-CIC0tj<10-^I^XC:O C)fO'*LTi;t^ 
I CldCICICICICICICICIrtCOCOCOfOCOCOCO 

xxooxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS, 63 

From this statement, it appears that the ran^e of the ratio of re- 
jections amons^ the different depots has been from 9.9 per cent, in 
JXewry, to 59.8 per cent, in Diibhn, beinor a difference of about 50 
per cent.; and at the same depot, from 19.2 per cent, in Dubhn in 
J 826, to 59.8 in 1830, showing a difference of about 41 per cenr. 
A considerable addition may be made to the ratio of rejections in 
each district, for the purpose of comprehending the recruits rejected 
i first inspections at dependent stations, (country recruits,) conse- 
quently, it will appear that, in a number of districts, from 40 to 
60 per cent., or 1 out of 2 of the recruits for the army are rejected 
upon medical examination. But another circumstance requires to 
be mentioned, namely, that when a high ratio of recruits is rejected, 
recruiting parties become very fastidious in regard to the men they 
enlist, lest they may lose by the transaction, and no doubt they re- 
fuse to enlist persons whom they fear may be found unfit upon 
examination. Recruiting parties are excited by the same motive 
which impels persons in civil life to active exertions a little money. 
The object of recruiting parties is to enlist men who will be ap- 
proved, by which means they obtain their remuneration. On an 
average, a recruiting party loses from about 2s. 6d. to 3s., by every 
recruit wlio is found unfit for the service, a sum which is fre- 
quently considered too heavy a stake to risk upon a recruit. 

The subdivisional officers employed on the recruiting service, or 
the Serjeants of parlies, approve of all recruits in regard to their 
age, height, and general appearance, before they are submitted to a 
medical examination; consequently, it may be supposed that the 
recruits who are brought forward for examination in the different 
districts, or at the different depots, are nearly equal, in as far as 
efficiency for military duty is concerned. Upon this assumption it 
will therefore appear, that the difference of the ratio of rejections 
in different statiorjs, or in different years, depends on the judgment 
of medical officers, and the opinions they entertain respecting the 
efficiency or the inefficiency of recruits. It would be no small 
benefit to the recruiting^ of the arnjy and to the public, if the views 
of medical officers were somewhat more uniform on this subject 
than they appear to be. Widely discordant conclusions in regard 
to recruits are calculated to convey an opinion that the examination 
they underg^o is not regulated by fixed principles, but that the deci- 
sion reofarding their fitness or unfitness is, in some measure, a ques- 
tion of fancy, rather than the result of a knowledge of the anatomy 
and physiology of the human frame, and an intimate acquaintance 
with the duties, disabilities, and diseases of soldiers. 



64 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING. ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

PART II. 

ON THE DISCHARGING OF DISABLED SOLDIERS. 



General Order. 



Horse Guards, 1st January, 1830. 
His Majesty having been pleased, by his royal warrant bearing 
date 14th November, 1829, to anthorise certain alterations in the 
mode of discharging soldiers, the general commanding-in-chief 
deems it proper to issue the following orders to the army in conse- 
quence. 



1. Non-commissioned officers or private soldiers are not to be 
discharged without the authority of the general commanding-in- 
chief, signified through the adjutant-general. 

2. Previously to any soldier being proposed for discharge on ac- 
count o{ unfitness for service, the commanding officer of the corps 
is to make a full report of the case to the general officer, under 
whose orders he is stationed, that he may personally inspect the 
man, assisted by the superior medical officer under his command ; 
and if his opinion coincide with that of the commanding officer and 
the regimental surgeon, he is to certify the same at the bottom of a 
return prepared according to the annexed form (No. 1.) which re- 
turn is then to be transmitted direct to the adjutant general by the 
commanding officer, for the purpose of being laid before the general 
commandingin-chief, whose instructions relative to the disposal of 
the man will be communicated to the commanding officer. 

3. If the regiment be stationed in Ireland, the reUirn is to be trans- 
mitted to the deputy adjutant general in Dublin, for the purpose of 
being laid before the general officer commanding the forces in that 
part of the United Kingdom. 

4. Before a soldier is henceforward permitted to leave the corps 
to which he belongs, preparatory to his removal from the service 
under any circumstances whatever, whether of unfitness for duty, 
or at his own request, a regimental board must be assembled, to in- 
vestigate, verify, and record, the following particulars, viz. 

1st. His services : 

2d. His disability : 

3d. His character : 

4th. His accounts and claims : 



GENERAL ORDER, 1830. 65 

according^ to the mode prescribed in the re2:ulations annexed to his 
majesty's warrant before-mentioned. The board is to be composed 
of three officers, viz. the major of the regiment, or the second in 
command, as president, and two captains as members. 

5. From the proceedings of this board tfie discharge of the soldier, 
according to the annexed form (No. 2.) is to be filled up, and when 
signed by the president, and countersigned by the commanding 
officer, is in every case to be transmitted, together with a duplicate 
of the proceedings of the board, to tlie adjutant general. 

6. Every soldier, on hem^ finally discharged^ is to be furnished 
with a parchment certificate, according to the annexed form (No. 3.) 
which must be confirmed in the adjutant general's department, be- 
fore it is delivered to the man. 

7. When soldiers are sent home from foreign stations for the pur- 
pose of being discharged, the general or other officer commanding 
will take care that the medical stafi" officers have had full opportu- 
nity of investigatinor the cases, before the men are permitted to em- 
bark. He will also take care that the same course with regard to 
the previous assembling of a regimental board, and the preparation 
of the prescribed documents, be pursued, and that the several dis- 
charges, parchment certificates, and duplicates of the proceedings of 
the board, be forwarded, carefully sealed up, to the commandant of 
the invalid depot at Chatham, which place is the destination of all 
invalids returning from foreign stations. 

8. The serious evils which have resulted to the public, as well as 
to individuals, from the very careless and incorrect manner in whicii 
the regimental records have been kept, and discharges filled up, 
having been fully ascertained and placed beyond question, by the 
investigations recently instituted, and now in course of progress, 
throughout the whole army, the general commanding-in-chief 
feels it incumbent upon him to require officers in command, and all 
others concerned, to give the strictest attention to the preparation 
of the documents now required, for the accuracy of which in every 
respect they will be held personally responsible; and Lord Hill 
trusts that there will be no occasion or opportunity, in future, for 
recurrence to measures which are painful to his feelings, in propor- 
tion as they expose the misconduct of individuals, and reflect dis- 
credit upon the army at large. 

9. In Ccises where soldiers serving on foreiofu stations may be 
desirous of being discharged on the spot, the general or other officer 
commanding, shall, if he see fir, forward their applications to the 
adjutant general, together with all the prescribed documents, in the 
same manner as if tlie men were on their way home, on the receipt 
of which documents the pleasure of the general commanding-in- 
chief will be signified. 

10. With regard to soldiers who may be allowed, under certain 
conditions and limitations, to obtain their discharges at their own 
request, according to the scale laid down in Article 46 of the Pen- 
sioning Regulations^ 1 829, the general commanding-in-chief desires 



66 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

tliat commanding officers in recommcndins: individuals for this 
indulgence, will be careful always to give The preference to men 
according to the goodness of their character; a course which, if 
steadily pursued, cannot fail to operate as a strong inducement to 
good conduct. 

11. In the cases of soldiers who are prepared to pay the regulated 
compensation for their discharije, t[ie mode of application now in 
use may be continued ; but in the cases of men with length of ser- 
vice giving them a claim to pension on that account, who may be 
desirous of obtaining free discharges, with or without gratuity, com- 
manding officers will allow a period of thirty days to intervene 
between the receipt of the soldier's application and its transmission 
to the adjutant general, in order to afford the man sufficient time to 
reconsider the step he is about to take, and to withdraw his request, 
if on mature deliberation it shall appear to him imprudent or unad- 
visable. It will also be the duty of the commanding officer to assist 
the man with the best information and advice in l)is power on so 
important a point; and it is presumed that every commanding offi- 
cer will discharge this duty with the utmost alacrity, and in the 
most conscientious manner. 

12. His majesty having been graciously pleased to authorise the 
general commanding-in-chief to exercise his discretion as to the 
extent of this indulgence which is to be granted. Lord Hill will be 
inclined to give it the utmost limits which may appear to him con- 
sistent with a due regard to the welfare of the service at large, and 
the particular circumstances and situation of the corps, from which 
the applications are made: and commanding officers are to keep a 
record, according to the order of date, of all applications which may 
be made to them for discharges, stating distinctly and fully in each the 
character and claims of the individual ; a copy of which record shall 
be transmitted to the adjutant general at the termination of each 
half year, for the information and guidance of the general com- 
manding-in-chief, with reference to any applications which may 
be addressed direct to head-quarters. 



The general commanding-in-chief thinks it unnecessary further 
to enlarge the present orders, especially as the instructions issued 
from the war-office touching the financial bearings of the measure 
in question are so detailed; and his lordship requires a diligent 
perusal of these instructions, and a strict observance of them, from 
officers in command, and from all others in any way connected with 
the interior economy and discipline of regiments. H 

By command of the Right Honourable " 

The General Commanding-in Chief, 

Hi':rbert Taylor, 

i^djutant General. 



GENERAL ORDER, 1830. 



67 







. >- 










2 "2^ 




5 ti) 






** S 




o c 






c >- 




(D .:3 




(A 


a> cd 




brt "o 


^ 


E 


^ 5 










-CJ 


J:^ (U O >, . 




13 S 




tf 


fi^l"i 




SO 


cn 

a 




fv ffi = ^ 3 




J S3 
P5 O 










>> 




0) 0) 


^ 


.^ 




5 -5 


a 


o 






rt 




C^ tM 


S H 






o o 


.= ^. 


5j 




a> V 




a 
I 1 

4-l 




H 2 


S 


o 




a c 


^6 


O) 




bjO ^bp 


^1 


O 




W 


OJ 


-S^ 


o 








il 










.g^ 


(U 








<n 








^ 


5 








^.2 












sdiOQ 




CC3 


a; 


JBqAl ui 














t3 

a 

53 

,o 


O) 


sqjaoj^ 




o 


M 






ifi 


a 

CQ 




'Si^^X. 




O >^ 

to o 
2 {fi 










oj 


saqoai 




W O 




_N 






"cS ca 






0} 

o 


W 


laa^ 






q3 


sqiuoj^ 




bo 


tic 






J3 <jO 


s 


< 








' 


sjBa^ 




O O 


o 


i 





* 






D 3 


.o 










Kn 




rt 


m 







a a 




a 




bl) bfl 


fo 


^ 








o 


na 








5 


e 








tf 


cd 








s 


^ 








u 


a 








Cij 


CO 

PS 








6 




1 ^ 









68 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 



6 

oi 
o 



HIS MAJESTY'S 

Regiment of 


a 
o 

a 

.2 

o 
o 


No. 55. THOMAS A TKTNS, Serjeant, 

Born in the Parish of St. Mary , in or near the Town of Portsmouth, 
County of Hants , by trade a Labourer. 

Attested for the 5th Regiment of Foot, at Coventry , in the County of Warwick, 
on the 9th May, 1806, at the Age of Seventeen. 

1st SERVICE. After the Age of 18 Years, which he is entitled to reckon up to the 30th September, 1829, is Twenty- 
three Years and One Hundred and Forty-five Days, the Statement of which is as follows: 


1 

i 

o 
c 

< 


CO 

Q 


OJ --^ CVJ CM CQ .-H 


CO 


kC rH rH -H kO 


c 



1 

.1 


^ 


24i/i December, 1812 
18i/i iWay, 1814 

4^/1 December, 1815 
14^A December, 1820 

7i/i /wZi/, 1822 
29;A TVfarcA, 1824 
30th September, 1829 





9i^ May, 1807 
25^^ December, 3812 
19^^ yWay, 1814 

5i^ December, 1815 
15^^ December, 1820 

8^A /wZy, 1822 
30ZA Marc/i, 1824 


a 


Private 

Corporal 

Serjeant 

Serjeant-Major 

Private 

Corporal 

Serjeant 




Promoted 

Ditto - 

Ditto - 

Reduced 

Promoted 

Ditto - 


a 
o 
E 

1 


1 



GENERAL ORDER, 1830. 



69 



T-t T-H (M 







' 


1 






ts 


-o 






o 


o 
















L. 






a> 


Qi 






P. 


P. 






_! 


(^ 














A 


a 






s 


^ 










00 

GO 


>1 


1 


1 










JS 


in 






O 


ca 


CVJ 


<M 




i> 








>^ 












jd 




rjT 


(>f 






00 


^ 








1 






^ 


^ 


JS 






t 






^O 


-C5 


o 


^ 










O 


;j 






<1> 


^ 


.2 

*> 

0) 




CI) 


Q 




-? 


r< 










d 




rt< 


^ 










t3 








OJ 




W 


o" 


.1^4 






<M 






a) 


CO 




1 












Vi 




f^ 


)k 










<v 


i 


-o 


rO 


-o 


S 


g 


'o 


fL, 


o 


J 


02 

U4 




(^ 


^ 


o 




:< 


"5 






^ 


U^ 






CM 


























(/3 






Vi 


(U 








a 

Q 









s ^ 



^ 




!i. 


1 


w 




o 




i^ 




"a 


1 


a 








ff 




<ii 


05 


S 


00 


fan 


tH 


^ 


l5 




-o 





S S 2 


1 


CO t>. lO 



^ s. 



JO &2 

a .S -^ 

g ^ CO 

OD *c- r) 

o "w >_ 

%- "to D 

o 5 M 



o ^ o 

O 

o 



1 


1 


O 






ca' 






^ 


_^ 


4^ 


jj 


ca 


a 


a 


a 






o 


(U 


<u 


U 


02 


m 






a 

3 
-^ 
O 

>> 

C<3 




T'O MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



Forrth No. 2, continued. 

SERVED. Two years in the Ecist Indies, two years in the 

AVest Indies, six at Gibraltar, two in the Peninsula, 
the remainder at home. Wounded in the leg at 
Waterloo ; present at the siege of Bhurtpore ; dis- 
tinguished himself at the storming of the place. 

2d. According to the surgeon's report annexed, it 

DISABILITY, appears that this is a case of disease or disability, 

or cause of contracted on duty; without being attributable to 

Discharge. neglect, design, vice, or intemperance ; and the 

regimental board approves of the opinion of the 

surgeon ; as it is shown by the proceedings of the 

board hereto annexed. 

Or, is a case of disease originating in constitu- 
tional infirmity, or in misconduct, and not con- 
tracted by the exigencies of the service. 

Or, by purchasing his discharge for 

Or by receiving a gratuity of and 

a free discharge. 

3d. The regimental board is of opinion, that his 

CHARACTER, general conduct has been that of a good and effi- 
cient soldier, seldom in the hospital, trustworthy 
and sober. 

Or think his character and conduct have been 
bad, for the reasons set forth in the proceedings of 
the beard. 

4th. He has received all just demands from his 

PAY and entry into the service, up to the 30ih September, 
CLOTHING. 1829. 

I THOMAS ATKINS, &c. 
Certified Captain. 

I certify that the foregoing statements are correct 
extracts from the regimental records, and the pro- 
ceedings of the regimental board. 

Major, and President. 
Confirmed by me, 

Lieutenant- Colonel Commanding. 



GENERAL ORDER, 1830. 



n 



Form. No. 2, continved, 

OPINION. Of the principal medical officer, at 

December itk, 1829. 
After a treatment of one month in the 2:eneral 
hospital, 1 am of opinion that Thomas Aikins is 
unfit for service, and likely to be permanently 
disqualified for military duty, and 1 approve oi 
the opinion of the surgeon. 

Or, I am of opinion that the soldier is capable 
of further service, &c. (kc. 



Horse Guardsj 

Order Serjeant Thomas Atkins to appear per- 
sonally before the commissioners of Chelsea hos- 
pital, or 

By order of the general 
commanding-in-chief, the discharge of Thomas 
Atkins is confirmed. 

The commissioners award Thomas Atkins to 
receive a pension of a day com- 



DECISION. 



Secretary J or Chief Clerk. 



DESCRIPTION of Thomas Atkins, at the time of his discharge. 
He is 40 years of age, 5 feet 10 inches in height, 
Cbald') 

< or > hair, grey eyes, sallow complexion. 
I i'^ht ) 
By trade a labourer. 

He has a scar or mark on his left hand. 

When he left the regiment, Thomas William- 
son was the pay-serjeant of his company. 



MARCHING 
ALLOWANCE. 



Thomas Atkins received from pay-master 
at Chatham, on the 14lh December, 
1829, ten days' marching allowance, to carry 
him to Coventry, the place of his enlist- 

ment, or to 

the port at which he is to embark on the way to 
the place of his enlistment. 

THOMAS ATKINS. 



72 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 



Porm^ No. 3. 
Parchment Certificate. 



bth Regiment of Foot. 

These are to certify that Thomas Atkins, serjeant, born in the 
parish of St. Mary, in or near the town of Portsmouth, in the comi- 
ty of Hants, was enhsted at Coventry, for the aforesaid corps, on the 
6th May, 1806, at the age of 17 years. That he has served in the 
army for twenty-six years, and five months. Was a corporal six 
years, a serjeant ten years; was in the West Indies four years, and 
in the East Indies five years. That he is discharged in conse- 
quence of being unfit for further service, and has been granted a 
pension. 

Signed Commanding Officer. 

Dated at Manchester , 30th September , 1829. 

Horse Guards. 
Discharge of Serjeant Thomas Atkins confirmed. 



CHARACTER. 

Thomas Atkins has been a well-conducted soldier ; was wounded 
at , and has distinguished himself by several acts 

of bravery; and, in consequence of his long and meritorious ser- 
vice, he has received a special gratuity of , in addition to 
the pension to which he is entitled. 

Signed Conim,anding Officer. 



The soldier's character is to be inserted only when recommenda- 
tory; if the general conduct of a soldier, whilst in the service, has 
been such as to give him no claim to have any thing said in his 
favour, the space for character in the above certificate is to be cut 
oif close under the black line following the confirmation of the dis- 
charge, thereby leaving no opportunity for any addition to be made 
after the certificate is given to the man. 

When a soldier is discharged on account of disgraceful conduct^ 
that will appear in the body of the certificate. 

ON the duty of discharging disabled soldiers. 

The preceding general order was issued from the Horse Guards, 
for the purpose of carrying into operation the '' regulations for pen- 
sioning soldiers," promulgated in a warrant, bearing date Idtli 
November, 1829. The same order is also calculated to carry into 
effect the provisions of the warrant of 1833 and subsequent war- 






DISCHARGING OF SOLDIERS. 73 

rants. The duty of medical officers, in the discharging of soldiers, 
is more especially comprehended in the second and seventh arti- 
cles of the order, as they have a principal reference to the dis- 
charging of men for disability, or, as it is expressed in the order, 
" unfitness for serviceP As soldiers engaged to serve " until they 
shall be legally discharged," they have no claim as a matter of right 
to be relieved from their engagement, after any period of service, 
and indeed, comparatively, few men are discharged, except "on 
account of incapaciiy for further service." " A soldier is not to he 
discharged on account of disability^ unless the existence thereof is 
satisfactorily ascertained^ and the infirmity is calculated to render 
the rnaii 'permanently unfit for military serviced {War-Office 
Memorandum, 30th July, 1830.) Soldiers should not be brought 
forward for discharge on account of doubtful, trivial, or temporary 
disabilities; for although men of this class may not be finally 
recommended to be discharged by a medical staft'-officer, they are 
apt to presume on the sanction of a regimental medical officer, and 
to make more of a slight infirmity than it really deserves. " The 
commanding officer and regimental medical officer having deter- 
mined that a case is proper to be brought forward for discharge, the 
latter will draw up an abstract of the history of the disease in clear 
terms, so as to enable the military authorities to understand the 
nature and the degree of the disability." ( War-Office Memoran- 
dum.) This abstract is to be delivered to the general officer of the 
district, who will in all practicable cases inspect the man, assisted 
by the principal medical stafl[-officer under his command; and 
should he deem the case to be a proper one for discharge, a report 
is to be prepared as prescribed by the general order of the 1st Janu- 
ary, 1830, and forwarded to the adjutant-general or the lieutenant- 
general commanding in Ireland, as the case may be. If the case 
appear to the coramander-in chief, according to the report made, to 
be one for discharge and pension, the soldier will be ordered to the 
invalid depot at Chatham, or to the general hospital in Dublin. 
( War-Ofjice Memorandum.) Whenever a soldier is ordered to 
the invalid depot, Chatham, or to the general hospital, Dublin, the 
medical officer who had him in charge is to transmit to the prin- 
cipal medical officer of the respective establishments, a particular 
account of the man's case, for the purpose of eventually enabling 
the commissioners of Chelsea hospital to decide upon his claim for 
))ension. In drawing up an account of tlie disabilities of men sent 
to Chatham or Dublin, reference should be had to the circular let- 
ters from the army medical department, bearing date 22d January, 
and 30th July, 1830, and the 14lh September, 1837, in which the 
director-general has requested the following points to be more espe- 
cially noticed, viz. the name, age, len2;t[i of service of each man, 
the origin, nature, and history of his disability, together with an 
account of the time he has been in hospital, and how far the alleged 
infirmity disqualifies him for service in the army. 

An abstract of the information contained in the report of each 
case is to be inserted in the man's discharge by the military and 



74 MARSHALL ON THR ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

medical aiilhorilies in Chatham or Dublin. On the day appointed 
for the coininissioners to hold a hoard at Chelsea or Kilmainham, 
the principal medical officer, or the stafF-surgeon, who has had the 
soldier in question under his care at the general hospital, will at- 
tend with an abstract of his professional observations on each man's 
case, when the board will decide upon his claim to pension {vide 
Pensioning Reg-uUilions, 1829, No. 52.) It does not appear, by 
the official documents which have been issued on the subject of 
discharging disabled suldiers, that either regimental or staff medical 
officers are directed to classify the disabilities v/hich confer a claim 
for pension ; that important duty seems to be executed by the com- 
missioners of Chelsea hospital. In France a different plan is fol- 
lowed, for, by an ordonnance of 1831, the medical officers employed 
on the duty of inspecting disabled soldiers are instructed to classify 
the disabilities which arise from wounds and other intirmities occa- 
sioned by military service, and which confer a claim for a pension, 
under six heads or degrees, and according to this classification the 
amount of pension is awarded. 

ON THE EXAMINATION OF ALLEGED INEFFICIENT SOLDIERS. 

The duty of proposing and recommending soldiers to be dis- 
charged on account of disabilities belongs primarily to regimental 
medical officers, {Circular from the medimil departtnent^ SOth July, 
1830,) who are instructed to furnish tfie medical staff" officer who 
may be appointed to examine them, with an account of the cause 
and degree of each man's disability. Soldiers proposed for dis- 
charge in Scotland are examined at the head-quarters of the respec- 
tive regiments and reserve companies by a surgeon to the forces; 
but in England, they are usually transferred to the invalid depot, 
Chatham; and in Ireland, to the general hospital, Dublin, without 
such previous examination. Pensioning Regulations, 1829, arti- 
cle, No. 52.) 

A regimental medical officer should exercise great caution in 
proposing soldiers for discharge on account of unfitness for the 
service, especially in regard to doubtful, trivial, or temporary dis- 
abilities. By close attention, he may, in general, be able to gain a 
tolerably correct opinion of a man's case, from his knowledge of 
the previous character, habits, constitution, manner, and former 
complaints ; and whether the alleged disability be, in a greater 
or less degree, feigned, as well as whether the disease may be con- 
sidered incurable. Before a medical officer proposes a man to be 
discharged, he should be able to reply affirmatively to the following 
questions : 

1. Does the alleged disability exist? 

2. Does it disqualify the man in question for military duty ? 

3. Is it incurable, or will it, in all probability, render the man 
permanently unfit for the service? 

By the warrant of 1806, every soldier had a legal right to a pen- 
sion for life, who was discharged in consequence of being disabled 



DISCHARGING OF SOLDIEllS. 75 

and imjlt for military duty; and as long as the pensioning of dis- 
abled soldiers was regulated by that warrant, and with little refer- 
ence to length of service, the simulation of disabilities was much 
practised in the army. A soldier had then two prizes in view if 
discharged in consequence of unfitness for the service, viz. his 
discharge, and an annuity for life; but by the warrant of 1829, 
although he may obtain a discharge by successfully feigning a dis- 
abling infirmity, he has no chance of being pensioned for life 
without long service. There is no better rneans of preventing 
fraud than to take away every encouragement to commit it, and, 
as far as possible, to diminish the hope of practising it successfully. 
But so long as soldiers presume that they can impose npon 
officers, military and medical, and that the result will be for their 
advantage, so long will examples of imposition occasionally occur 
in the army. 

Every medical officer who may have to propose or to recommend 
soldiers to be discharged on account of inefficiency, must be in a 
great measure guided by his own professional skill, discretion, and 
practical acquaintance with the duties of soldiers. He should inva- 
riably pay due regard to the claims of soldiers, while he devotes the 
requisite attention to the public interest. I most cordially agree 
with Dr. Cheyne in the following passage of his letter to Dr. Renny, 
( On the Feigned Diseases of Soldiers,) " The wiles of soldiers in 
hospital will be with more certainty discovered by those who have 
an accurate knowledge of disease, obtained by clinical observation 
and pathological writings of authority, than by those possessing 
natural sagacity in the highest degree, if unassisted by a habit of 
carefully contemplating and studying disease." 

Some diseases or disabilities, such as deafness or stammering, are 
much more easily feigned than others, and, consequently, the im- 
posture is more difficult to detect. In all diseases, of which the 
symptoms are obscure, periodic, or intermitting, and uncertain, 
much care should be taken not to come to a wrong conclusion. 
" Melancholy instances have come to my knowledge where men 
have died in making exertion above their strength, after having 
been looked on and treated as malingerers, and others, where slow 
decay and uncontrollable disease have carried them off." [On some 
forvis of Rheumatism, prevailing in India., by Mr. Malcolrnson, 
Madras, 1835.) There are some real and not unimportant dis- 
eases, which are not indicated by a change of the pulse, or by any 
remarkable alteration of the colour or temperature of the body, or 
by any evident derangement of its functions. There are also other 
diseases which are capable of being simulated by the use of certain 
drugs, or by external applications. An intimate knowledge of the 
anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the human body, and of the 
effects of the articles of the materia medica, is therefore essentially 
requisite to prevent a medical officer from occasionally arriving at 
false conclusions in obscure cases. 

It is difficult for the simulator of a disease to sjive a consistent 



76 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF S0LDIF:RS. 



account of the origin and proo:ress of his alleged infirmity. By a 
little manao^ement on the part of a medical officer, an impostor will 
commonly be led to enumerate incompatible symptoms, or greatly 
to exaggerate unimportant lesions ; but it ought to be recollected, 
that patients suffering under real disease are apt sometimes to fall 
into a similar error. He is constantly prone to overact his part; 
and, if carefully watched, it will frequently appear that he is invent- 
ing symptoms, which is a much more difficult operation than 
simply and frankly to state his feelings. Two soldiers were trans- 
ferred from a regiment in Ireland to the general hospital, Dublin, 
for the purpose of being discharged, in consequence of alleged 
incurable disabilities. The designation of a disease was, as is usual 
in like circumstances, affixed to each name; but the countenance 
and general appearance of the men indicated little, if any, derange- 
ment of the healthy functions of the body. The medical officer at 
the general hospital made them stand up together, and requested 
one of them to give an account of his complaint, which he did 
very fully, being occasionally encouraged to enter minutely into 
a detail of symptoms and feelings. By his account, it appeared 
that he suffered more or less under disease from the crown of the 
head to the sole of the foot. Not a word of observation indicative 
of the incredulity of the medical officer was uttered in regard to 
the man's statement. The other man was then asked, " What is 
the matter with you ?" " The same as this tnan^^^ was his reply. 
The inference is obvious : he was evidently not prepared with a set 
of symptoms, and, without perceiving the trap laid for him, lie 
instinctively availed himself of the ingenuity and talent of his fel- 
low-impostor. They were sent back to the corps to which they 
belonged; but I have no doubt that each of them succeeded in 
eventually " working ou^ a discharge. 

Harsh or arbitrary measuresof any kind should never be adopted 
by a medical officer in doubtful cases of alleged disease ; neither 
should he be stigmatised in severe terms with the character of 
being a malingerer; for, as Dr. Cheyne observes, such a method, 
"although it may sometimes intimidate a raw soldier, will only 
afford a stronger motive to the hardened knave for perseverance; 
and if the opinion thus rashly pronounced should prove erroneous, 
the consequences may be very unhappy. the confidence of the 
soldier in his surgeon will be destroyed, and the latter will be sub- 
jected to the just displeasure of his military superior." Mild, firm, 
and in other respects judicious treatment, deprive a man of hope, 
which is perhaps the most effectual means of inducing a malingerer 
to return to his duty. Medical evidence in regard to the existence 
and disabling consequences of disease is, in many cases, merely pre- 
sumptive; and very rarely, indeed, does it amount to absolute 
certainty. Mistakes have happened diseases, which were at first 
supposed to be feigned, have eventually proved genuine and, con- 
sequently, however much appearances may be against an indi- 
vidual, it is prudent, and highly expedient, to proceed regularly, 




DTSClIAR<3;iKG OF SOLDIERS. 77 

deliberately, and patiently, in every case. Medical officers are not 
warranted in employing any means w!)ic!i would be inapplicable to 
a genuine case of disease. Tliis obsorvatiori applies not only to 
coercive or penal measures, but even to irriiatins: applications, 
nauseating- medicines, and spare diet. Whenev-er there is any 
doubt, in regard to the existence or permanently disabling degree 
of an infirriiity, the safe plan is to keep the man in hospital, for the 
purpose of prolonged professional treatment, and longer if not more 
careful investigation. It may also be observed, that a man who has 
been in hospital for an alleged disability of a doubtful character, 
should invariably be afforded an opportunity of ^/v///^ 2//. (in other 
words, of apparently recovering) without taking him much to task 
for his conduct; or, in the language of the hospital, he should be 
le( down softly. Unless when absolutely necessary^ no suspected 
case should be transferred from a regimental hospital (where the 
man is known) to a general hospital. The reasons are so obvious 
as not to require a detailed illustration. Malingerers are more fre- 
quently instructed in the art of imposture in general hospitals, than 
detected and rendered useful soldiers; for there every new comer, 
if his natural disposition harmonises with that kind of instruction, 
is corrupted by the information he receives in regard to the various 
modes of imposition. 

A. disposition to malinger and to feign disease is one of the most 
disqit.alifi/lng disabilities with which a soldier can be afflicted. 
An old soldier who attempts to simulate a defect, and persists in his 
plan of iinposition for a little time, is frequently lost to the service, 
notwithstanding the adoption of every means to bring him to a pro- 
per sense of duty. Recruits and youno^ soldiers are more frequently 
reclaimable. Old soldiers, who prosecute their schemes with art 
who possess great fortitude, and an inflexible resolution will, 1 
believe, commonly succeed in obtaining their discharge, either by 
making falsehood appear to be more probable than truth, or perhaps 
more frequently, by exhausting the patience of medical and com- 
manding otHcers. It is only after some experience that a medical 
officer is aware of the difficulties he has to encounter in his endea- 
vours to reform persevering malingerers. Let him be ever so 
assiduous, and adopt the most judicious measures for tlie recovery 
of simulators, who sutler under some real, although only trifling- 
cause of inability, lie will frequently iind his measures rendered 
nugatory by their unwillingness to be restored to the ranks, and the 
pains they take to retard coiivalescence. He will also find himself 
much perplexed how to act, for the purpose of rectifying the mentat 
aberration, or moral obliquity, of some schemers, whose disabilities 
are merely pretended. Impostors often display a spirit of invention, 
and an art in concealing fraud, which could not have been antici- 
pated. The mind, by becoming concentrated on one object, appears 
to acquire new powers; so that persons with naturally weak intel- 
lects have evinced a tact and dexterity in the prosecution of a design 
far beyond what their general conduct would have warranted us in 
7 ir mar 



78 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

assumintj. In coming to a conclusion with regard to the measures 
which should be adopted with a inahngerer, commanding officers 
have frequently only the clioice of two evils; to recommend his 
discharge, or to retain him in the service, with scarcely any pros- 
pect of his being a useful soldier. When an impostor is discharged, 
he almost invariably throws off the mask abruptly, and boasts of 
the success of his artifice, thereby giving a bad example to his 
comrades, and one which may be influential in exciting them to 
imitation. A malingerer, if retained in the service, is likewise 
liable to injure the morals and discipline of a corps. Many a simu- 
lator will liold out not only for several months, but for a number of 
years, probably passing his time chiefly in hospitals; and during 
all this period the contagion of bad exaniple is in operation, by 
which influence individuals, who would have continued to be good 
soldiers, have been seduced from the strict path of duty, and induced 
to feign disabilities, and to persist in schemes of fraud, with the 
most inflexible endurance. 

When a malingerer has, by mild and judicious measures, been 
induced to give in, I consider the circumstance of some importance 
to the service. Owing to the frequent intercourse which exists 
among soldiers, the event becomes often extensively known ; hence, 
a useful warning is afl^orded, by which means individuals, who may 
be disposed to simulate disabilities, are deterred from making an 
attempt to do so. On the other hand, when a schemer succeeds, 
hope is excited, and his example may be extensively imitated. In 
a great many instances, I believe, the inmates of an hospital are 
aware when their comrades are malingering, although they very 
rarely, indeed almost never, give the fnedical officer a liint on the 
subject. An informer, when discovered, becomes an object of 
universal detestation ; and hence, one cause of the difficulty of 
accurately ascertaining the various methods of simulating disease. 
In all cases respc^cting which a medical officer finds some difficulty 
in making up his mind, patience and attention are strongly indi- 
cated ; and when a soldier is presumed to he a persevering malin- 
gerer, it is, in general, bad policy to recommend him to be 
discharged, under the idea, that, as he is not likely to become useful 
in the ranks, the service would be benefited by getting rid of him ; 
or to promote his views, by assigning, as a reason for discharging 
him, some possible or imaginary physical infirmity^ when the 
real cause for wishing to discharge him is his unwilliiigness to do 
his duty. Similar reasons may be urged with regard to the pro- 
priety of exercising much care, not to send a malingerer home from 
a foreign station, such as India, on account of infirm health. The 
mere circumstance of a man having been so transferred at the 
recommendation of medical officers, is calculated to excite a pre- 
sumption that he had suff'ered under some serious cause of disability, 
although no well-marked trace of any important disease may be 
recognised on his arrival in this country; and persons of the stamp 
alluded to never fail to adduce this fact in their favour most forcibly; 



i 



r 



DISCHARGING Of SOLDIERS. V9 



indeed, they commonly seem to consider it alone as an incontestible 
proof that they ought to be discharo^ed, either with or without a 
pension. This kind of evidence is sometimes difficult to set aside, 
although it certainly does not always produce conviction. 

Many a soldier is admitted on the sick list on account of some 
complaint which requires medical treatment, who, during the period 
of convalescence, becomes in love with the ease and comfort of the 
hospital establishment, and evinces no disposition to return to his 
duty. His first intention as a schemer may be merely to evade 
duty; but, by degrees, his views extend to an endeavour to get his 
discharge, and, if possible, with a pensio|j, "on account of disability 
contracted in the service." Whenever a convalescent begins to 
think himself somewhat comfortable in hospital, he is in a fair way 
of becoming a malingerer. " The least evil that can happen by 
soldiers remaining too long in hospital, is, that they will contract a 
slothful, lazy, idle habit, and turn, according to the military phrase, 
malingerers^ that is, men who have lost all spirit to tlie service, 
and feign themselves sick when there is a prospect of action, or that 
they are to undergo any s^reat hardship or fatigue, in order to be 
sent to ihe hospital ; which life, through habit, becomes agreeable to 
them." {Bland's Military Discipline, 1727.) 

The simulation of infirmities for the purpose of being discharged 
from the service, is not confined to privates, or to morally vicious 
and irregularly conducted soldiers. No!i-commissioned officers, and 
men of good character, occasionally feign disabilities, as well as 
young soldiers and alleged incorrigible offenders. Many well- 
conducted Serjeants are extremely anxious to be discharged when 
they have completed twenty-one years' service, more especially 
when they have some prospect of a suitable employment in civil 
life. Not \o\vy ago, a serJeant of the 62d regiment, while it was 
quartered in Ireland, purchased a pistol, and hired a man to shoot 
him through the arm, probably hoping by this means to make it 
believed that he had been fired at by some person disaffected to the 
military, and that he would i:ot only obtain his discharge, but also 
a large pension. That well-conducted soldiers, whose names are 
not to be found in the defaulter's book, sometimes adopt improper 
means of obtaining their discharge, need not surprise us, when we 
consider the circumstances which usually impel young lads to 
enlist, and the interminable nature of their engagement. "A sol- 
dier in the British army sees men in other situations, not always 
his betters, rising to wealth, and affluence, and distinction around 
him ; he feels that he is stationary for life, that his prospects cannot 
mend." and that every attendant misery of poverty awaits him 
when his health and strength are exhausted. Need we wonder, 
therefore, that men so situated should frequently suffer under de- 
pression of spirits, and consequently of impaired health, (home 
sickness,) and that they should sometimes adopt improper means of 
obtaining their liberty? Hope is as essential a requisite for promo- 
ting good conduct as it is for attaining happiness. Tytler, in his 



80 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

Essay on Military Laiv, says, "If a soldier complains of the re- 
straints of Ills vocation, he throws no impeachment on his profes- 
sion, but arraigns himself of /oZ/y, who did not perceive that these 
restraints are essential to its condition." This opinion is, no doubt, 
theoretically true ; but the thraldom imposed by folly is not less 
galling than the bondage occasioned by misery or congenital ser- 
vitude. 

2dli/. Does the disability in question re?ider a man unfit for 
tnilitary duty 7 This point frequently requires much consider- 
ation, and every case will demand special investigation. The 
conclusion in regard to each man must be decided by professional 
knowledge, and practical experience of the duties of soldiers, of 
their habits, their hopes, their wishes, and modes of thinking. 
There are many degrees of loss of vision, varicose veins, hernia, 
rheumatic pains, lameness from old fractures, mutilations, <fec., 
which do not disqualify a soldier for performing his duty, and which 
will be little heard of by a medical officer, provided a soldier wishes 
to serve, and has an object to gain by doing so. But if an old 
soldier, who suffers under any disability, although in no very great 
degree, wishes to obtain his discharge, he has only to complain, and 
to persevere by ^^ lying iriH'' (becoming a patient in hospital) regu- 
larly a few weeks before the periodical inspections, and eventually 
he will attain his object. The constitution of an infantry soldier 
may be good, and bis health tolerably sound ; but if he has served 
21 or 22 years, and is above 40 years of age, bis strength has, in 
some measure, passed away, by which means he is not able for the 
active duties of the service. There are no invalid or garrison bat- 
talions in the British army, to which partially inefficient men might 
be transferred; and consequently it will be necessary to discharge 
them, as being more or less unfit for military duty. 

?tdly. Is the disease or disability i7icurable, and loill it ijerma- 
nently unfit a man for military duty 7 This is a question which 
in some cases requires much discretion and consideration. Few 
diseases can be called absolutely incurable. Those which consist 
in impaired action or disordered function of some organ of the 
body, are considered incurable, when the morbid process is unsus- 
ceptible of being modified by any treatment or remedy; when hu- 
man interference appears to be unavailing; and when remedies 
have been employed and persevered in, until, in all probability, 
permanent recovery, so as to render a man fit for performing the 
duty of a soldier, cannot be expected. In some diseases, more 
especially in such anomalous disabilities as wandering pains, a 
considerable time should elapse before recovery be; deemed hopeless. 
A great majority of the patients received intn military hospitals are 
admitted during a period of life when the vital actions are ener- 
getic, by which means recoveries are rapid ; and medical officers 
are on that account apt to think that a patient whose disease is 
unusually protracted suffers under an incurable malady. They have 
not always sufficient confidence in the curative influence of a 



I 



I 



DISCHARGING OF SOLDIERS. 81 

youthful constitution and an adequate period of time. Many men 
recover rapidly after they have been discharo:ed, much more 
rapidly than was anticipated while they were soldiers. 

I shall conclude these observations by warnincr youn^ medical 
officers against employing harsh or violent lang^uage, or adopting 
unprofessional or coercive measures towards soldiers. Intemperate 
language will not intimidate a veteran malino^erer, or induce him 
to return to his duty; and coercive treatment, which is not required 
by the nature of a case, is decidedly illegal. In 1822, a statf-sur- 
geon v/as arraigned before a court-martial for using opprobrious 
and disgraceful words towards soldiers whom he suspected of being 
malingerers. He was acquitted of all the charges, five in number, 
but not without much trouble and anxiety. I allude here to the 
circumstance, as it may prove a useful warning to young medical 
officers, and it is for that purpose I have done so. (Vide Note, No. I.) 
We learn, from Dr. Cheyne, that the strait-waistcoat, the log, and 
the solitary cell, have often been used by medical officers of cha- 
racter; but he adds, that those who thus act very gratuitously 
expose themselves to censure. "There used," says he, '-to be the 
greatest coarseness and severity in the treatment of men in hospi- 
tal nay, military as well as medical officers frequently treated 
common soldiers as if they belonged to an inferior order of beings, 
I have heard soldiers called the greatest villains on the face of the 
earth, only to be kept in subjection by the lash. This was folly in 
the extreme, and happily it has become obsolete." 

Diseases and disabilities which disqualify soldiers for service in 

the army. 

{Exirait de Vinstrvciion svr les appels en France.) 

"Tout medecin, chirurgien ou autre officier de sante qui, pour 
favoriser quelqu'un, certifiera faussement des maladies ou infirmites 
propres a dispenser du service public, sera pnni d'un emprisonne- 
ment de deux a cinq ans." (Loi sur le Recruiicinent du 21 Mars^ 

1822.) 

"Any officer who shall, by any false statement, certificate, or 
document, or omission of the true statement, attempt to obtain for 
any officer or soldier, or other person whatsoever, any pension, re- 
tirement, half-pay, gratuity, sale of commission, exchange, transfer, 
or discharge^ shall, on conviction thereof before a general court- 
martial, be cashiered.'^ (Rules and Articles 1830, Article 46.) 

These two extracts from official documents will show the import- 
ance of the duty of examining conscripts in the Frencli army, and 
soldiers in the British, and the care which should be taken in each 
case, before a certificate of unfitness be granted. The disabilities 
which may unfit soldiers for military duty cannot be accurately 
defined or specifically enumerated ; for there is hardly any infir- 
mity, fiowever trivial in its general character, which may not exist 



82 MARSHALL ON THE ENEidTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

in so severe a decrree as to impair the efficiency of a soldier. The 
aptitude or fitness of a man for military duty is the point which 
requires to be investigated in the case of a recruit; but, with regard 
to a soldier proposed to be discharjjed in consequence of disabili- 
ties, it is his maptltude or unfitness for duty which requires to be 
ascertained and appreciated. When any doubt is entertained re- 
specting: the fitness of a recruit, it is usual for a medicnl officer to 
reject him; and unless tfie unfitness of an alleged disabled soldier 
be satisfactorily established, a medical officer is directed not to 
recommend him to be discharged. 



DISQUALIFYING DISABILITIES OF SOLDIERS. 

I have, in the following arrangement, classed the disabling infir- 
mities of soldiers under ten heads. Respecting some of the diseases 
on the list, I have added a few observations on their nature and 
degree, for it is of much importance that a medical officer should 
duly appreciate the value or degree of a disability before lie recom- 
mends a soldier to be discharged. A few remarks in regard to the 
phenomena which distinguish real from feigned infirmities are 
commonly given under each head; and for the purpose of exhibit- 
ing the difficulty which sometimes occurs in detecting simulators, 
as well as the labour and patience necessary to be exercised to in- 
duce a soldier who feigns a disability to return to his duty, 1 have 
given a brief account of a number o( cases where imposture was 
satisfactorily discovered. I concur with what Dr. Cheyne states, 
that "probably there are not (now) two malingerers for ten who 
were found in the military hospitals thirty years ago." 1 have also 
derailed a kw cases where a real infirmity was supposed to be 
feigned. For obvious reasons,- 1 have confined the examples of 
feigned disabilities chiefiy to cases belonging to the army. 

Tfie observations in regard to the disabilities are necessarily very 
brief, for it did not come within my plan to discuss the pathology 
of diseases, and, except in a very superficial manner, I have no 
intention to enter upon the extensive and important subject of legal 
military medicine. 

Class I. Diseases of the Eyes partial or total loss of Vision. 

1. Ophthabnia Inflammation of the eyes. Ever since the 
year 1806, when Mr, Windham's act passed, whereby a soldier had 
a legal right to a pension for life when he w^as discharged on ac- 
count of a disability, a considerable number of men have been dis- 
charged in consequence of inipaired vision and total blindness. 
During the year 1818, 477 men were discharged and pensioned on 
account of partial or total loss of sight. The ratio of men dis- 
charged, from this cause, appears to have become considerably 
lower; for during a period of five years, or from 1823 to 1828 
inclusive, the numbers discharged and pensioned were 867, viz. 



I 



DISaUALIFYIXG DISABILITIES OF SOLDIERS. 83 

90 on account of total blindness, 300 in consequence of the loss of 
one eye each, and 477 from impaired vision of both eyes. For a 
^reat number of years, partial or (otal loss of sight was, in an espe- 
cial manner, considered to confer a claim to a large pension for Wie. 
The bounty of government was followed by a ^reat increase in the 
number of men disabled by impaired vision; and factitious inflam- 
mation of trie eyes was carried to a very great extent in the British 
army, as is well known to both military and medical officers of long 
standing. The alleged means employed in factitious ophtlialmia 
are, lime, corrosive sublimate, tobacco, ashes, (fcc. Urine has been 
employed for the purpose of producing inflammation, but I presume 
without effect. The eye will endure, with comparative impunity, 
the application of very stimulating substances in a fluid state, sucli 
as spirits, juice of lemons, ifcc. It was proved before a committee 
of the house of commons, that, in a barrack where several hun- 
dred cases of inflammation of the eyes occurred, a large proporfiou 
of them had been produced by gonorrhoea! matter, or at any rate 
the attempt had been made to do so. On such a suloject as this, we 
cannot often obtain demonstrative evidence; we can only in gene- 
ral arrive at a strong presumption that disease has been artificially 
excited. As soon as a regiment was ordered to the West Indies, 
or any other unpopular station, disease of the eyes became common 
among the men, and continued so till the corps had embarked. 
The number of cases then decreased, and no more was heard of it 
until the period when a detachment was ordered to embark for the 
service companies. In the following extract, Dr. Cheyne gives a 
frightful picture of the practice of exciting inflammation of the 
eyes, which at one time prevailed in the British army: "I may 
take the present opportunity of observing, that I never saw a more 
humiliating picture of depravity or perversion of reason call it 
what we may than I have witnessed in a ward filled with soldiers 
labouring under ophthalmia ; most of the cases, as I learned from 
the surgeon in attendance, beinof factitious. Inflammation artifi- 
cially excited is most painful, and is kept up under every privation 
which can make life miserable; locked up in a dark ward, and 
permitted to have intercourse only with the officers of the hospital, 
nurses, and orderlies; confined to diet which, from the absence of 
every stimulating material, is most disrelishing; suffering under 
painful external applications and nauseating internal medicines; 
phlebotomised and leeched till their complexions are bloodless, their 
pulse hemorrhagic, and the frightful train of nervous symptoms 
which excessive blood-letting produces is established in the system. 
All these evils, in many cases, have no effect, but to confirm the 
soldier in his determination to destroy one or both of his eyes, that 
he may be dismissed from the service with the chance of a small 
pension." (Le^^er to Dr. Renny by Dr. Cheyne.) 

In the year 1809, three hundred of the men of two regiments 
which were on duty at Chelmsford became aflected with ophthal- 
mia; the healthy men of both corps were transferred to another 



84 MARSriALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

Station, while the sick remained in the hospital, hut nnder strict mih'- 
tary control. Information reached the coninDandinj:^ officer that 
one ot'tfie nnrses was in the practice of ^oing to a drn^o^ist's shop 
for the [)nrpose of purchasing drngs, hy which means his suspicions 
were excited: and in conjnnction wilfi the medical officer, a suc- 
cessful attempt was made to discover whether the men had any 
articles in their possession which might be employed to excite in- 
flammation of the eyes. The commanding officer entered one of 
the wards which contained 24 men, about midnight, and ordered 
them to form rank entire in a state of nudity, nnd they were in that 
condition inarched into an adjoining empty ward, which had been 
prepared for their reception. The old ward was secured for the 
night, and next day the beds were examined, when a number of 
parcels ,of corrosive sublimate were found concealed under the 
clothes. Means were taken to prevent a fresh supply of this drug, 
and in a very short time 250 of the men had recovered, and were 
transferred to their respective corps. In the years 1804 and 1805, 
ophthalmia became excessively prevalent in the 50th regiment, and 
after a very careful investigation a correspondence was detected 
between the men under treatment and their parents and friends. 
The ophthalmics requested that corrosive sublimate, lime and blue- 
stone, might be forwarded to thern, through which they hoped to get 
their eyes in such a state as would enable them to procure their 
discharge with a pension; and they mentioned the names of men 
who had been successful by similar means. Proofs of guilt having 
been established, the delinquents were tried by a court-martial, con- 
victed, and punished. Instances have occasionally occurred where 
the evidence that a soldier intentionally excited disease of the eyes, 
was sufficiently strong to warrant a court-martial in convicting him. 

The late Mr. C., surgeon to regiment, brought two men before 

a court-martial, one for submitting to have an eye destroyed, and 
the other, for actively abetting him, in fact, for performing the work 
of destruction. The instrument employed was a common table 
fork. Mr. C. saw the operation performed through the key-hole of 
the ward in which the men were accommodated. Conclusive evi- 
dence being produced, the men were convicted, and received cor- 
poral punishment. Other convictions for a similar c/Tence have 
taken place, chiefly for introducing irritating substances into the 
eyes, which, by long continued application, occasion chronic oph- 
thalmia, nebulosity, and ultimately blindness, from opacity of the 
cornea. I once detected a man who had a small fragment of cloth 
spread over an eye imder the eyelids, for the purpose of exciting 
inflammation. Blindness of an eye has been successfully simulated 
in France by applying a pencil of the nitrate of silver to the cornea. 
The 15th article of the pensioning regulations, 1829, directs that 
no soldier is to be discharged on account of blindness or impaired 
vision, provided the sense of sight is perfect in one eye. This regu- 
lation will have an excellent effect in discouraging the practice of 
mutilating the organs of vision, for many a man might destroy one 



IMPAIRED VISION. 85 

eye, who would hesitate to render himself totally blind. Dnrino^ 
the year 1828, there were 33 men blind of one eye at the same time 
in the invalid depot, Chatham ; 13 of this number belonged to one 
regiment. Previously to this period it had been customary to dis- 
charge a soldier when he became blind of one eye, and to award 
him a pension of nincpence a day without reference to length of 
service. The lOtli article of the pensioning regulations, 1829, if it 
be strictly and judiciously observed, is also eminently calculated to 
prevent the practice of factitiously exciting inflammation of the 
eyes, and eventually occasioning blindness. 

When impaired vision follows inflammation of the eyes, it is in 
general not difficult for a medical staff-otlicer to decide whetlier a 
man has so far sustained the loss of sight as to render him perma- 
nently unfit for military duty; but whether the impaired vision is a 
consequence of artificially excited inflammation or not, is a question 
of another kind, and one extremely difficult to solve. Both regi- 
mental and medical stafl'-officers would require to take the utmost 
pains to satisfy themselves on this point, before recommending a 
man to be discliarged. The sources of deception are often manifold. 
I have more than once found some difficulty in deciding respecting 
men proposed for discharge, because, as was presumed, they had 
immediately before examination introduced a quantity of common 
salt, or some similar irritatincr but soluble substance in their eyes. 
Snufl" is sometimes employed, but, as it is not soluble, detection 
frequently follows. To prevent being duped by these means, it 
is sometimes expedient to examine the men more than once, and 
at periods when they have not had time to prepare themselves for 
inspection. 

2. Amaurosis. This disability is defined to be a total or partial 
loss of vision from a paralytic affection of the organ of vision. The 
loss of vision may be confined to one eye, or both eyes may be af- 
fected. In amaurosis the pupil is commonly dilated, and the iris is 
little or not at all sensible to the influence of light. Where one eye 
is completely amaurotic there is generally a want of consent in the 
expression of the countenance, and frequently the centre of the lucid 
cornea projects a little. Blindness without any obvious caus3 is 
sometimes pretended by soldiers, and there is much reason for sup- 
posing that some of them are acquainted with the means of simu- 
lating the symptoms of this affection by the agency of drugs. The 
use of snuff" which has been moistened with a decoction of the 
atropa belladonna,, has the eflfect of dilating the pupil of the eye 
corresponding with the nostril into which the snuff' was introdiiced. 
Where any doubt is entertained in cases of this alleged disability, 
they should be examined repeatedly, and at uncertain periods. Jt 
may also be useful to propose an operation on the eye. Should the 
sense of vision not be lost, the sight of an instrument may niake a 
man wince and blink, by which means it will be obvious that he is 
not blind. Simulators of amaurosis sometimes discipline themselves 
so as that an eye may not appear, by shutting the eyelids, to be sensi- 



83 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING. ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

ble to light, or to the presence of asliani instrument. Dr. Fallot met 
with a conscript who had prepared fiimself in tliis way, and who, 
by the aid of belladonna^ had completely simulated the principal 
symptoms of amaurosis. Having sjispicions that the disability was 
feigned, he placed one hand over the region of the heart, and witli 
the other appeared as if he intended to pierce the eye with a sharp 
instrument; the head moved not, but the heart f)alpitated, which 
induced Dr. Fallot to give a decided opinion that the disability was 
feigned, and under the influence of surprise and shame, the mnn 
avowed that his conclusion was correct, and he was consequently 
found fit for tlie service. 

3. Cataract. This disability consists in an opacity of the lens. 
Cataract in both eyes is a decided disqualification for the army, and 
consequently soldiers who have this disability are commonly dis- 
charged. It may be of importance for medical officers to know that 
cataract has been factitiously excited for the purpose of obtaining a 
discharge, 8 or 9 cases having occurred a few years ago at Fort Pitt 
general military hospital. A considerable period elapsed before the 
means which had been adopted to produce this variety of blindiiess 
were discovered ; but eventually it was found that a needle, or some 
similar instrument, had been introduced through the lucid cornea, by 
whicii means the lens was rendered opaque. The late Mr. Melin, 
surgeon to the 9th or Queen's Royal Lancers, had the merit of dis- 
covering this novel mode of mutilation. He operated successfully 
upon all the 8 or 9 men, as cases of cataract; vision was restored, 
and they were all sent to join their respective corps. 

Class II. Disease of the Ears Deafness. 

Deafness may exist without any obvious mark or trace of disease 
of the ears, or of any symptoms to distinguish a simulated from a 
real defect of the organ of hearing. Suspicion of the reality of 
alleged deafness in soldiers is therefore commonly excited rather by 
moral than physical evidence. Deafness does not come on sud- 
denly, and in general it is only partial. Isfordink says that a really 
deaf man has a sing^ularly rough voice. The simulator of deafness 
is apt to overact his part, to assert that he was suddenly affected 
with the disability, and to pretend that he is totally deaf. During 
the year 1818 there were 36 men discharged from the army, and 
placed on the pension list in consequence of alleged deafness, and I 
have no reason to believe this number unusually hicrh. The per- 
severance with which deafness has been feigned, the difficulty which 
frequently exists in ascertaining whether the disability is real or 
simulated, and the means most likely to detect imposture, will 
perhaps be most satisfe\ctorily shown by recording two cases of sim- 
ulated deafness, where the deception was discovered. 

A simulator of deafness is rarely if ever discovered, except by 
finesse or accident, such as addressing him by name while he is 



DEAFNESS. 



ST 



asleep. In the following two cases, finesse was very successfully 
employed. 

A recruit from Cork, who joined the depot of the East India Com- 
pany at Chatham, allecred that he had almost totally lost the sense 
of hearinof, and the testimony of his comrades from Ireland served 
to support his statement. Dr. Davies, surgeon to the depot, aduiitted 
him into hospital, and put him upon spoon diet. For nine days 
Dr. Davies passed his bed during his daily visit to the hospital, 
without seeming to notice him. On the tenth day he felt his pulse, 
and made signs to him to put out his tongue; he then asked the 
hospital Serjeant what diet he gave the man. Spoon diet, replied 
the Serjeant. The doctor affected to be displeased, and in a low 
voice said. Are you not ashamed of yourself, the poor fellow is 
almost starved to death. Let him instantly have a beef-steak and a 
pint of porter. The recruit could contain himself no lon:er. With 
a countenance expressive of gladness and gratitude, he addressed 
Dr. Davies by saying, God Almighty bless your honour; you are the 
best gentlemen I have seen for many a day. 

A marine, while serving on board a ship of war, complained from 
time to time to the surgeon, that he was gradually losing the sense 
of hearing, and at the end of several months he asserted that he was 
completely deaf. It being, however, presumed that the alleged in- 
firmity was feigned, and as he could not be made to perform his 
duty, he was brought to the gangway and flogged ; but previously 
to his being paraded for punishment, and during its infliction, he 
was informed that he should be pardoned if he would admit the 
fraud, and return to his duly. Every means that promised to be 
successful in surprising him into showing that he possessed the 
sense of heariiig was resorted to, but without success: firing a pistol 
close to his ear, suddenly rousing him during sleep, and endeavour- 
ing to alarm him, elicited nothing satisfactory. The officers at 
Haslar Hospital, to which he had been sent, resolved to punish him 
a second time. Dr. Lind, who was then physician to the hospital, 
begged that punishment might be deferred, with the view of gaining 
time to try another experiment whether the man was an impostor 
or nor. His request was granted. The doctor chose a favourable 
opportunity, and coming unperceived behind him one day, he put 
his hand on the man's shoulder, and said, m an ordinary tone of 
voice, ''I am happy to tell you that you are invalided at last." 

"Am [by !" replied the overjoyed marine, 'i'he imposture 

being thus rendered evident, he was forthwith punished, and sent 
on board ship. 

The simulators of deafness sometimes pretend that they are una- 
ble to speak, thereby endeavourino: to show that they suffer under a 
very serious disability, deaf-dumbness. The deaf-dumb impostor 
evades answering the puzzling questions whicli might be made to 
him were he to admit that he had tlie power of speech. 

A trooper named M'Keon, who belonged to the 7th Dragoon 
Guards, then quartered at Piershill barracks, appeared one morning 



88 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

to bo both deaf and dumb; a disability wbicli did not exist the 
previous evenitisf. Many moans were adopted to ascertain that he 
possessed the sense of hearing, but without success. Firing a pistol 
close to [lis ear produced no effect. After keeping liim a long time 
in the regimental hospital, he was sent to the Edinburgh Infirmary, 
from which he was subsequently discharged as incurable. No noise, 
however sudden, or artfully employed, succeeded in rousing his at- 
tention. Eventually it was believed that the alleged disability was 
real, and his situation excited the pity and commiseration of the 
officers of the corps. At the end of about a year he was recom- 
mended to be discharged, and left Dundalk, where the regiment was 
at that time quartered, on his way to Dublin to pass the invaliding 
board. During the first day's march he got intoxicated, and at the 
same time recovered the use of his tongue and ears. His escort brought 
him back to the regiment next day, but before he arrived his deaf- 
dumbness had returned. He was tried by a court-martial, and sen- 
tenced to receive 800 lashes; but as he still held out, it was deemed 
advisable to send him to the general hospital in Dublin, for the pur- 
pose of being examined by the m.edical officers of that establishment, 
before the sentence of the court martial should be carried into eflect. 
Here various attempts were made to induce him to give in, and 
among other means used for that purpose, he was informed that, if 
he returned to liis duty, the sentence of corporal punishment would 
be remitted; a promise which produced no immediate consequences. 
Upon admission into hospital, he was for some time accommo- 
dated in a ward in company with several other patients, but he was 
afterwards confined in a solitary cell, with no other sustenance but 
a stnall allowance of bread and water. The orderly who attended 
M'Keon was instructed to give him his scanty fare; but on no ac- 
count to speak to him. In this manner thin2:s went on for nearly 
three months, when one morning the pretended deaf-mute accosted 
the orderly by sayin?, " Good morning to you, .Tames." James was 
completely astounded for some time; he soon, however, so far re- 
gained his self-possession as to secure the door, and to make all 
haste to inform the steward of the hospital of what had taken place. 
When M'Keon was interrogated in regard to the recovery of the 
faculties of hearing and speaking, he stated that he had had a dream, 
and that when he awoke he found that the long lost functions had 
returned. He was not punished, he returned to his duty, and con- 
ducted himself with great correctness for a considerable time, but 
eventually he deserted, taking with him his arms, accoutrements, 
&c. M'Keon must have been desperately disgusted with the ser- 
vice, or possessed an ardent love of liberty to enable him to endure 
the restraint, the privations, and the deferred hope to which he was 
so long exposed. 

Class HI. Diseases of the organs of respiration and circti- 

laiion. 

I. Stammering. As an impediment of speech is a disability 



CONSUMPTION. 



89 



which pr(!veii(s a recruit from being approved for the service, and 
as stammering rarely appears after adult age, few soldiers are dis- 
charged on account of this alleged infirmily. 

During the winter of the year 1826-1827, a sentry while on duty 
at a post in tlie garrison of Chatham, alleged that he had become 
unable to speak distinctly, and as the sljimmering or hesitation of 
speech was considered by the medical officers an involuntary dis- 
ability, he was, after beinc,'- some time in liospital, discharged from 
the service. Shortly after, another sentry, while on the same post 
as the former had been, became similarly aflected. In this case, the 
impediment of speech was presumed to be feigned. The man de- 
serted from the hospital, and, after a few miOnths, he was taken and 
brought back to Chatham. His utterance was still indistinct. 
Electricity, shower baths, and various other remedial means were 
employed in vain. Some of the medical officers who watched this 
case carefully, were of opinion that, although the disability might 
have been originally simulated, it had become by custom habitual 
and involuntary. I am ignorant of the result of this man's case, 
as my applications for information in regard to him were not suc- 
cessful. 

2. Consnraption^ Asthma. Under this head I include the various 
affections of the lungs which discjualify soldiers for military duty, 
and on account of which a great number are annually discharged. 
The diagnosis of diseases of the lungs has become much more cer- 
tain since percussion and auscultation have been adopted by the 
medical profession. When the external and functional symp- 
tonis of disease, together with the stethoscope indicate a material 
disorganisation of the substance of the lungs of a soldier, it is in 
general deemed expedient to recommend him to be discharged. 
The stethoscope in the hands of an adept is highly useful in detect- 
ing tlie simulators of consumption, a class of impostors who are 
found in all general hospitals, and sometimes also in regimental 
hospitals. 

Dr. Cheyne very grnphically describes some of the manoeuvres 
of a simulator of phthisis. " He expresses a wish to be let blood or 
blistered for a pain in his chest ; he begs for some medicine to re- 
lieve his cough ; applies for a furlough ; in short, so well does he act 
his part, that, unless the surgeon is very circumspect, he will discover 
U'hen too late that he has been made a dupe of" But impostors 
are not always content with merely pretending disease ; a more 
complicated system of fraud is sometimes attempted. Emaciation 
is occasioned by abstinence and drinking vinegar cough and 
hoarseness are imitated debility is pretended and a puriform ex- 
pectoration is easily obtained by purchase or otherwise from the 
spitting-pot of a patient really labouring under consumption. Many 
impostors are sufficient adepts in the art of deranging the circulation, 
to simulate hectic fever by the quickening the pulse, so that by 
these means all the leading symptoms of consumption are more or 
less completely counterfeited. Cl)ronic catarrh is often liie ground- 



90 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

work upon which a case of fictitious consum[)tion is founded. 
When the patient is in hospital, the expectoration is regularly shown 
to the medical attendant, and to increase the quantity it is mixed 
with saliva and mucus from the nose. It is often tinged with blood, 
which is commonly produced by prickino^ the ^ums. In cases of 
this kind the breathing is generally quick, and there are always 
complaints of pain in the chest, and of disturbed rest from cough. 

^'' L'' imitation de I'asthme serait risible si elle n'ctait deplorable. 
Des jeunes gens, dans I'espoir de representer le signe essentiel de 
cette affection, (la difficulte de respirer,) se sont occasione des pal- 
pitations dont les suites ont e!e quelquefois bien funestes ; il est des 
simulateitrs chez qui elles ont determine I'hypertrophie du coeur." 
{Coche, page 191.) 

3. Hcemoptysis^ or spitting of blood. Many soldiers are pro- 
posed to be discharged on account of this alleged symptom of im- 
paired health. Haemoptysis may be a consequence of infiamnjation 
of the mucous membrane of the trachea, which commonly admits 
of speedy recovery. When haemoptysis is accompanied by other 
symptoms of tubercular disorganisation of the lungs, the congeries 
of symptoms deserve the highest consideration, and the man in 
question may be recommended to be discharged, as being likely to 
be permanently inefficient. Where spitting of blood occurs with- 
out other symptoms of consumption, such as emaciation, purulent 
expectoration, hectic fever, (fcc, the attention should be especially 
directed to ascertain the circumstances connected with the hemor- 
rhage. Impostors are aware that spitting of blood is occasionally 
a symptom of consumption, which disqualifies a soldier for the 
service; and as this symptom is easily feigned, it is more commonly 
simulated than any other indication of pectoral disease. Various 
means are therefore frequently resorted to by soldiers who wish to 
obtain their discharge and a pension. For the purpose of deceiving 
medical officers in this respect, some secretly provide themselves 
with bullock's blood, for the purpose of colourino^ the saliva; others 
make small incisions in the mouth or arm, and thus procure the 
colouring matter. To detect an impostor who feigns spitting of 
blood, all that is commonly required is to carefully examine the 
contents of the spitting-pot. Blood from the lungs is florid and 
coagulated in smaller or larger portions, but where this symptom of 
disease is feigned, the colouring matter is intimately mixed with 
saliva. The absence of all the other pathognomonic symptoms of 
organic disease of the lungs should invariably excite a consider- 
able degree of doubt in regard to the alleged source of the expec- 
torated blood. 

Dr. Fallot relates an interesting case of a soldier who simulated 
this affection. The man had voluntarily enlisted, but he soon after 
regretted that he had done so, and became anxious to regain his lib- 
erty. One evening Dr. Fallot was sent for in great liaste, and found 
a large quantity of coagulated blood before the bed of the man, 



DISEASE OP THE HEART. 91 

who, with an affected feeble voice, complained of his deplorable 
condition. Seeming- to believe all he said, the doctor ordeied him 
to be bled, and directed some other remedial means to be followed. 
Next day Dr. Fallot was informed that the congh and spitting Of 
blood had continned all ni^ht. The healthy appearance of the 
man, the absence of fever, and the clear distinct sound of the chest, 
excited the doctor's snspicions, and induced him to watch the sol- 
dier carefully, and for a considerable time, during which he ascer- 
tained two facts: first, that the man ejected lar^e clots of blood 
without coughing; and secondly, that, before the blood was ejected, 
iie turned his face to the back of the bed, which was situated in an 
alcove. Eventually a pot containing about a pound and a half of 
bullock's blood was found under the cover of the bed. This cir- 
cumstance was considered conclusive evidence that the hemorrhage 
was feigned. 

A soldier, who had for some time simulated a pectoral affection, 
showed Dr. Fallot his spitting-pot, which contained a mixture of 
blood and puriform matter. The man had got out of bed during 
the night, and appropriated part of the contents of the spitting-pot 
of a man suffering under consumption, to which he had added a 
portion of blood which he found in a bleeding basin. He had not, 
however, taken the precaution to break down the coagulum which 
remained in the basin, and, as the portion he had removed left a 
vacancy in the clot, he was thereby detected. 

4. Diseases of the heart or large blood-vessels. The diagno- 
sis of diseases of the heart is frequently attended with much diffi- 
culty. When a soldier complains of uneasiness, or sensations 
indicative of a morbid condition of the heart or aorta, the utmost 
care ought to be taken duly to investigate the origin of the symp- 
toms, and to place him in circumstances favourable for his comfort 
and recovery. This measure is essentially necessary, inasmuch as 
extensive disorganisation of the aorta may take place without being 
indicated by any obvious symptom. A long-continued probation 
is advisable, before recommending a discharge on account of ob- 
scure affections, particularly of this class of disabilities. Nothing 
very specific can be learned from a frequent, a slow, an irregular, 
or ail intermitting pulse, as these may at intervals occur in the 
same individual, under a variety of circumstances, without much, 
perhaps without any, disease. Recruits have almost always a fre- 
quent pulse while they are examined, and not a few men have been 
rejected under the presumption that a quick pulse is a satisfactory 
indication of disease of the heart or large blood-vessels. Much 
caution is required on \\\e part of a medical officer, before he con- 
cludes that a soldier is suffering- from organic disease of the heart, 
and that, in consequence of this affection, he is unfit for the duties 
of his profession, and not likely ever to recover. 

Disease of the heart is sometimes simulated by soldiers when 
they wish to be discharged. To excite an undue action of the 



^2 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 

vascular system^ various means are employed, some of which are 
known to medical officers, but of others I believe they are com- 
pletely io^norant. The introduction of tobacco or garlic into the 
anus j^reatly derantres the circulation, and disease of the heart is 
thereby simulated. The veratrum, alburn^ in doses of from ten to 
twelve grains, has been successfully used for a similar purpose. 
The ingenuity of medical officers will readily suggest the means of 
discovering whether any irrecrularity of the action of the heart be 
fictitious or not. Total seclusion, so as to render it impossible for 
a man to procure drugs, and coming upon him unawares for tlie 
purpose of ascertaining the state of the circulation, will commonly 
afford strong presumptive evidence of the soundness or unsound- 
ness of the heart, and whether artificial means have been used to 
excite palpitation. I believe palpitation is sometimes produced by 
the immoderate use of tobacco, without any intention of thereby 
exciting disease, but there is too much reason for suspecting that 
this narcotic is occasionally employed for tlie specific purpose of 
simulating an affection of the heart. 

Palpitation of tlie heart may, it is alleged, be excited by strouix 
coQipression on the abdomen, by means of a tight bandage, such as 
the waistband of a pair of trowsers. Professor William Schmitt 
relates the case of a young engineer officer in the Austrian service, 
who adopted that means for the purpose of being permitted to retire 
from the army with a pension. 

A temporary derangement of the function of the heart, and con- 
sequent palpitation, is not unfrequent among soldiers, more particu- 
larly young recruits, before they are dismissed from drill. For 
some time previously to a general inspect iot], the men are often 
kept long under arms; and to this circumstance may sometimes be 
attributed shVht derangement of the circulation, fainting of weakly 
individuals, (fcc. Standing under arms has lately been forbidden as 
a punishment, which is a wise and humane measure. Frequent 
tedious drills and inspections are supposed to be sometimes the pre- 
cursors or causes of rupture, aneurism of the heart, varicose veins 
of the leg, &c.. and perhaps not akogetlier without foundation. 
I'he practice of the French army in this respect may be quoted, as 
a warning for British officers to avoid. 

"Every Sunday there is a general inspection of all the corps of 
infantry, duriuij which the soldiers stand under arms from sunrise 
to mid-day, and sometimes till one in the afternoon. An inspection 
is first made by the non-commissioned officers, then by the officers 
of each company, next by the commanding officer of a battalioi], 
then by the lieutenant-colonel, and after him they are inspected by 
the colonel of a regiment. The men then proceed to mass, and 
afterwards return to parade, when the lieutenant-general, after a 
final inspection, expresses his satisfaction at the fine appearance of 
the corps, but it is presumed he is ignorant of the extreme fatigue 
which has been incurred to gain his approbation." 

5. Varicose veins, This morbid affection consists in a perma- 



VARICOSE VEINS PHYSCONIA. 93 

nent dilatation of the veins. The external veins of several parts 
of the body become occasionally varicose, but this affection rarely 
disquahfies a soldier for military service, except when the veins of 
the inferior extremities are affected. When varicose veins of the 
legs are largfe and nnmerons, marching is accompanied by a sense 
of fulness above the ankle, with more or less oedema of the whole 
log, and consequently a soldier is thereby disqualified for service in 
the infantry or artillery. If the affection exists in a very severe 
desfree, the legs become swelled, tense, hot, and painful, the skin 
red and inflamed, and the cellular tissue condensed. The slightest 
abrasion of the skin may give rise to ulceration, and in this condi- 
tion of the veins ulcers on the legs are frequently incurable. At- 
tempts are sometimes made, by soldiers who wish to be discharged, 
to excite, or at any rate to aggravate, this affection by tight liga- 
tures; but to what extent these means answer the purpose intended, 
I am unable to state. 

Class IV. Diseases or impaired Functions of the Organs of 

Digestion. 

1. Visceral turgescence {Physconia). This term is intended 
to comprise a number of diseases consisting in an enlarged or pro- 
tuberant condition of one or more of the organs of digestion. As 
all the viscera of the abdomen are subject to an indurated enlarge- 
ment, and as the various organs occasionally become affected simul- 
taneously, the symptoms may be very complicated. Instances 
frequently occur where the real nature of the swelliiig cannot be 
determined, except by a post-mortem examination. The origin of 
visceral turgescence is commonly attributed to disease contracted 
while serving in unhealthy climates, and much care and attention 
is required by medical officers, to satisfy themselves of the exist- 
ence and extent of the alleged disability how far it disqualifies a 
man for military duty and whether or not it was contracted by 
service, as well as whether it be incurable. Any material disorga- 
nisation of an important viscus may in general be considered 
incompatible with health and complete efficiency. 

"Les cas doivent etre juges suivant I'importance des visct^res 
malades, la profondeur de I'alteration qu'ils ont subie, et I'etendue 
de ses eifets sur la constitution generale, la nature de leurs causes, 
et le de^jre de leur curabilite," (Fallot, Memorial de Vexpert, ^c, 
page IG7.) 

This disability is not unfrequently feigned by soldiers who wish 
to be discharged. Mr. Bamfield, formerly surgeon of the 35th 
regiment, had three cases of this kind under his care: the enlarge- 
ment of the abdomen was effected by means of a deep inspiration, 
and keeping it distended with very short expirations. The detec- 
tion he found was simple and easy, as it was only necessary to 
surprise the patient while asleep, when his abdomen was solt and 
unprotruded. I have met with three or four cases of alleged 
8 a 7 mar 



94 MARSHALL ON THE EXLISTIxNG, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

"organic disease of the abdomen," which was imitated by simpl] 
elevating the spine. The advantage of examining men bronghj 
forward for discharge, in a state of nudity, is very obvious when 
visceral turgescence is feigned in this manner. During the yea|| 
1811, a greatly distended condition of the abdomen became in soi 
measure epidemic among the men of the 84th regiment, then sU 
tioned in Dubhn. From thirty to forty men belonging to that corps' 
were admitted into the general hospital, complaining of pain and 
distention of the abdomen, with excessive thirst: some of them 
drank daily more than a gallon of water. Dr. Harvey, who was 
physician to the hospital, eventually concluded that the symptoms 
were factitious, and under that impression he prescribed a solution 
of Glauber salts, dissolved in weak infusion of tobacco, wliich he 
called the irifusiim heiicdicturn. A cupful of this bitter mixture 
was given in the morning, and repeated every fourth hour until it 
operated, and with con)plcte success. All the patients who were 
in hospital recovered speedily, and the disease soon disappeared. 
Sixteen men had, however, succeeded in obtaining their discharge 
before this method of treatment was adopted. The means by which 
the tympanitic symptoms were occasioned remains unknown. It 
was conjectured that large quantities of chalk and vinegar might 
have been employed, but this was only a surmise. 

A great expansion of the abdomen is sometimes excited or pre- 
tended by soldiers in India when they wish to evade duty, or to 
obtain their discharge. The means adopted is commonly supposed 
to be drinking fermenting toddy, and rice water, to which a small 
quantity of soap is added. 

2. Chronic disease of the liver. Soldiers who have served in 
India are pretty well acquainted with the leading syuiptoms of this 
affection, and, when they become tired of a military life, some of 
them feign liver disease, while others exaggerate the uneasiness 
under which they may in reality be suffering. The diagnosis of a 
morbid affection of the functions or structure of the liver is fre- 
quently very obscure, and hence a medical officer must chiefly 
depend upon the general indications of Itcalth or disease, in liis 
estimation of t!ie ultimate efficiency of a man ulio has lieen for 
some time under medical treatment, on account of this alleged com- 
plaint. Unless the uneasy sensation of the right side, wliich is the 
common complaint, be corroborated by well marked symptoms of 
impaired healih,--or rather wlien tliere is no obvious fulness in 
the region of the liver, when the pulse and breathing are regular, 
the secretions and excretions natural, when there is no remarkable 
emaciation, and when, the alleged pain resists topical bleeding and 
blistering, we are not warranted in concluding that much real 
disease exists, and, coiisequently, should not recommend a man to 
be discharged as permanently unfit for military duty. I have seen 
a number of men who had lain for many months in bed, on account 
of alleged liver disease, but whose healthy countenances and plump 
frames satisfied me that the functions of the liver were not much 



DISEASE OF THK LIVFIR VOMITING. 95 

out of order. It is surprisin^r how lonsf a healthy person will resist 
the clebilira(ing effects of tfie daily exhibition of a moderate quan- 
tity of medicine, low diet, and confinenjent to bed, without being 
greatly extenuMted, or seeming to suffer by hospital discipline of 
this kind. Maliuijerers rarely succeed in fei<jning a languid sickly 
eye, or the voice of genuine indisposition, however well they uiay 
feign other indications of disease. 

In alleged cases of disease, where testimony is doubtful, and 
where there are no obvious symptoms of impaired health, a medi- 
cal officer cannot use too much care to ascertain the real state of 
the health of his patient; and until he has made up his mind in 
regard to a case, ilie remedies em[;loyed should be very simple. A 
soldier complained that he had "liver," and alleged that he had ii 
severe pain in his left side. Seeming to believe that liis disease 
was of a grav^e nature, he was confjned to bed, and, with the pro- 
fessed purpose? of preventing his sleep from being disturbed by the 
conversation of his comrades, he was accommodated in a ward by 
himself, lie was kept on low diet, and a weak solution of the tar- 
trate of antimony alternately with the niistura diaholica regu- 
larly exhibited. This mixture consists of Glauber salts, infusion 
of tobacco, and asafcutida, and it is commonly ojven in very small 
quantities, but so frequently as to keep the taste pretty constantly 
in the moutli. He hold out under this careful treatment for a 
month, and recovered rapidly. Soon after fie was discharged from 
hospital he confessed the imposture, and swore that, if it had not 
been for his stupidity in locating the pain in his lel^t side, the impo- 
sition would not have been suspected. He was misiaken ; the 
imposition was considered pretty obvious from the first, but I am 
not aware that any other means would have made him sooner 
returi] to his duty, pjvcry medical officer of experience will con- 
cur with the late Dr. Cheyne in his remarks regarding alleged 
clironic hepatitis. "We ought," he says, "never to put a malin- 
gerer under a course of mercury, as, by the requisite stay in the 
hospital, he will not only be enabled to ujature his plans of villany, 
but his constitution will thereby be injured- if forced to return to 
his duty. After being salivated, he will soon be again in hospital, 
asserting that the pain in his side has returned. As soon as his 
mouth gets well, a new course of mercury will then be instituted, 
which is precisely what he wishes." 

3. Vonuting. When the stomach is much diseased, vomiting is 
a frequent consequence or symptom of the affection. Organic dis- 
ease of this viscus is commofily accompanied with pain of the part 
affected, regurgitation of the ingesta, and general emaciation. 
When there is no other obvious symptom of disease of the stomach, 
but a regurgitation of the food swallowed, it may generally be in- 
ferred that the alleged disability is not of a very serious nature. 

Some persons who have the voluntary power of rejecting the 
contents of the stomach, avail themselves of that faculty to simu- 
late disease. I have seen several soldiers who were proposed for 



9$ MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



discharcre on account of this alletred disability, namely, the rejec- 
tion of food after every meal ; but as they continue<J to increase in 
weight npon half diet, and had each a healtfiy conntenance, no 
donbt could be entertained that tlie vomitintr was voluntary. They 
were all sent to their duty; and I have since learned, in regard to 
ijome of them, that they because efficient soldiers, witfiout niaking: 
any complaint of indigestion or wiint of nourishment. In 1828, 
there was a man in the general hospital, Dublin, who had been 
under observation and Ireatuicnt for five or six months, in conse- 
quence of frequent vomiting. Some doubt was at first entertained 
respecting the nature of tlie alleged disability, but eventually it was 
presumed that the disability was feigned, and the nian was sent to 
ins duty. Shortly before he left the hospital, four men in the same 
ward with him regurgitated their food, so that the disability became 
partially epidemic. None of these men were discharged from tlie 
service at that time. 

4. Bowel complaint. Under the head " Dysentery and Hepatic," 
it appears that, on an average, more than 2U0 men are annually 
discharged from the service. {Circular Letter^ 22d January^ 1830, 
Medical Department.) Cases of bowel complaint require very- 
careful deliberation before they are recommended to be discharged; 
more especially the age of the man under consideration, his length 
of service, the climate in which he has served, the intractable nature 
of the symptoms, and the duration of the disease. It is presumed 
that no man is ever discharged while he is suffering under urgent 
symptoms of bowel conjplaini, or an advanced stage of any disease. 
The hospital is the best place for this class of patients, where they 
ought in general to remain until the disease terminates either in 
recovery or death. 

Bowel complaints are occasionally pretended by recruits when 
they w^ish to avoid leaving a district depot to join their corps. The 
fraud is easily detected by inspecting their linen : if it be clean, the 
bowels are not much out of order. In climates where dysentery is 
prevalent, such as India, bowel complaints are often alleged as a 
pretext for being relieved from duty; the use of a night-chair satis- 
factorily discovers the fraud when no disease exists. Care must, 
however, be taken in hospitals, that a patient really suflfering under 
dysentery does not lend his assistance to promote the imposture, 
for aid of the kind alluded to has been bouijht and sold. In civil 
life, I have known bullock's blood exhibited in a chamber utensil 
to the physician of a dispensary, for the purpose of obtaining some 
of the comforts of the establishment. 

5. Hernia. According to the 20th article of the Pensioning 
Regulations of 1829, no infantry soldier is to be discharged for riip- 
tvre alone, except in extreme cases of disability. By the French 
conscription law, no man is to be exempted from serving in the 
army on account of rupture, unless the intestine is irreducible, or 
that it cannot be kept in its place by means of a truss. I believe 
that in all regiments there are a considerable number of ruptured 



HERNIA. 97 

men, who jx'rforin their duty regularly without complaint, and 
who are capal)le of performing all tF>e ordinary duties of the army 
diirino^ a period of peace. Does liernia occur more frequently 
among the men in cavalry corps than in infantry regiments? What 
is the relative ratio of ruptured men serving in cavalry corps and 
infantry regiments? These are interesting questions, which I am 
jmahle, for want of materials, to solve; but 1 hope the subject will 
)e carefully investigated. Under what circumstance should a sol- 
dier, who is ruptured, be deemed disqualified for the performance 
of military duties? He may, perhaps, be considered unfit for the 
army when he suflfers from single hernia^ if a truss fails in pre- 
venting the intestine from protruding through the ring, and in all 
cases of double hernia. "Rien n'est quelquefois plus difficile que 
de preter un jugernent bien d^cisif sur le veritable etat d'une her- 
nie, c'est-a-dire de prononcer que la reduction est operee, et qu'elle 
est bien et solidement contenue. Toutes les fois qu'un homme est 
porteur d'une hernie, il pourra non-seulement s'il veut tromper, 
aflirmer qu'elle est ditficilement contenue, mais il pourra aieemeni 
la reproduire a volont^ par une fort inspiration ou des mouvements 
pr^cipites d'inspi ration ou d'expiration." {Soiiville^ ExGtnen des 
Injirmites ou Maladies qui pcuvent exempter du tService Mili- 
taire, et necessiter la Reforme. Paris, 1810.) 

Every man who is affected with hernia may be considered unfit 
for military duty during active warfare. War is a state of priva- 
tion of every kind, and, in general, a ruptured man is unable to 
surmount the fatigue of a campaio^n. Indeed, no man who is 
afl>3cted with hernia should be permitted to take the field, however 
willing he may be to accompany his comrades. 

Hernia is not a cause of much inefficiency in the army, nor are 
there many men discharged on this account. By a return, com- 
prehending a considerable portion of the army, it appears that, 
among an aggreo^ate strength of 10,000, there were admitted into 
hospital 10 men on account of hernia, or one in 1000, the range 
being from 5 to 17 per 10,000. The ratio of admissions among 
the cavalry is 10 per 10,000, which is exactly the amount of the 
general mean. Among every 78.796 men, one died of hernia, and, 
with respect to the number of men discharged, it appears that, of 
every 10,000 men serving in India, 3 were annually disabled and 
discharged frouj the service in consequence of hernia. I have no 
documents which enable me to state, whether, in any of the fatal 
cases, or indeed in any instance, the operation for strangulated 
hernia was performed. The operation for hernia is but very seldom 
required in the army. Perhaps there is no class of the population 
among which there are so few surgical operations performed during 
peace. Many medical officers have passed through a long period 
of service, and left the army, without ever using any moie capital 
instrument than a lancet and a tooth instrument. {Note, No. II.) 

Although hernia be not a cause of much inefficiency in the army, 
it is occasionally alleged as a reason for being exempted from 



m 

particular duties; and tnedical officers frequently find considerable 
difficulty in deierminii^g whether the plea arises fronfi want of will 
or from physical inhrtuity. 

Hernia has been simulated by soldiers who were anxious to ob- 
tain their dischnrc^e. 

Pat Gafney, second battalion, rifle brigade, having been ''unfor- 
tunate" !)y which term is implied that he had been convicted of a 
crime, and pufiished complained that he had become ruptured. 
He was forthwith examined by Dr. Connel, assistant surgeon to the 
brigade, who found a slight de^^rce of fulness over the left inguinal 
ring, and eventually he ascertained that the left testicle was not in 
the scroium. Oy means of considerable pressure applied above the 
ring, the testicle was extruded and restored to the scrotum. Gafney 
had served several years in the marines, and was discharged, as his 
"Instructions" stated, in consequence of inguinal hernia, the result 
of service, with a pension of fivepence a day. It would appear 
that he succeeded in obtaining his discharge and a pension from 
the marines, by simulating hernia; but he failed, however, in im- 
posing upon Dr. Connel. He was discharged from the army with 
every mark of ignominy in September, 1827. 

To discharge a bad man with ignominy in other words, with 
loss of good name or, indeed, in any way, may be to promote the 
object of his wishes, and consequently this 'punishment has little 
effect in preventing criu)e. 

I have seen several men who had the voluntary power of draw- 
ing up a testicle to the ring, and retaining it there for some time.. 
According to Baron Percy, some men can retract a testicle within 
the abdomen. Some years aoo a paper was picked up in the gene- 
ral njilitary hospital, Dublin, which contained a "receipt for making 
a rupture." The scrotum was to be punctured with a large pin, 
and then, by means of a piece of tobacco-pipe, it was to be blown 
up with air. I'he same operation was to be performed on the other 
side, if a double rupture was required; poultices were to be applied 
to reduce the inflammation. The manuscript was supposed to have 
been dropped by a man belonging to the 18th Hussars, who had 
been left in hospital when the regiment embarked for England. 
He joined his corps at Rumford, in Essex, with his scrotum greatly 
enlarged : according to liis own statement, the swelling came on 
in consequence of his jumping from a window shortly after he left 
the hospital; on his landing: at Liverpool, it became so large and 
painful that he could not walk, and was in consequence forwarded 
in a cart. When the scrotum was pressed, a crepitus was percep- 
tible. The swelling was in all likelihood excited, and probably by 
the means directed in the "receipt." This man succeedtd even- 
tually in obtaining his discharge, by simulating disease of the hip- 
joint. (/>. Cheyne's Letter to Dr. Renny.) 



I 



DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE. 



99 



Class V. Diseases and Lesions of the Genitourinary Organs. 

1. Diseases of the testicle. a. Hydrocele (or water in tlie 
tunica vaf(inaHs testis) sometimes exists in so trifling a degree, as 
hardly to be considered a disease or disability. When, however, 
the operation for a radical cure has failed, or when the body of the 
testicle is considerably enlarged, a man is commonly deemed unfit 
for the army, and recommended to be discharged. 

h. Sarcocele. In this disease the testicle is enlarged, indurated, 
heavier than natnral, and sometimes unequal on the surface. Sar- 
cocele is frequently presumed to be an ill-conditioned affection of 
the gland, and little under the influence of remedial means. The 
testicle may, however, become enlarged, without having a tendency 
to a scirrhous induration. As these two conditions of a testicle 
may be confounded and indeed, during the early stage of the 
affection, there is no definite line to distinguish them the unfit- 
ness of a man for the service on account of this disease must be 
determined by the extetit of the enlargement, the duration of the 
disease, and the intractable nature of tlie symptoms. 

c. Varicocele and Cirsocele. A varicose dilatation of the veins 
of the scrotum, {varicocele,) or a similar condition of the veins of 
the spermatic cord, {cirsocele,) if the enlargement has attained sucli 
a size as to impede a soldier from marching, it renders him unfit 
for the service. 

The tesiicle of one side is someli.nes considerably smaller than 
the other, without any satisfactory appearance of disease, but many 
recruits have been rejected on this account. A man was approved 
at the Dublin depot, who was subsequently rt\jected at the head- 
quarters of the rc2:iment to which he belonged, in consequence of 
the alleged state of his left testicle, which (according to the report 
of tfie siirgeon) "appears proceeding to a dissolution." This is 
certainly a very hypothetical reason for rejecting a mat). Had the 
surgeon been well acquainted with the duty of inspecting recruits, 
he would have known thnt the testes are comparatively small in 
some individuals, occasionally not larger than horse beans in stout 
muscular men. 

2. Incontinence of urine. An involuntary flow of urine is an 
indication of fiuictional, if not of organic, disease of the bladder; 
but as a want of the po'wer of retaining the urine for a considerable 
time is a rare disability, and as the affection is frequerjtly feigned, 
great care ouir'it to be bestowed upon the investigation of every 
case wliich is proposed to be discharged on this account. Persons 
win really suffer under incontinence of urine have commonly a 
weak, lax consiimiion, aiid infirm health. The flow seldom inter- 
mits above two hours at a time, either by night or day; the body 
and cloihes exhale a strong anujioniacal odour, and the scrotunj 
and inside of \\\e. thighs are found to be excoriated. In cases where 
incontinence is feigned, the action of the abdominal muscles may 



100 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTINrs, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

be perceived, and the urine con}es away in jets. If. the bladder be 
capable of retaining a considerable quantity of urine, it may be 
inferred that the alleged incontinence is feigned; hence a simulator 
may sometimes be detected by coming upon him unawares, and 
desirino^ him to make water instantly, or by using the catheter. 
The alleged disability of incontinence of urine occasionally disap- 
pears, by making a man sleep on straw instead of in a comfortable 
bed, which he had wet regularly every night. The application of 
moxa to the scrotum has been found useful, inasmuch as the alleged 
disability was very soon said to be cured. But perhaps the most 
effectual means of making a schemer announce a recovery, is to 
oblige him to wear a urinal, and do his duJy. This disability, like 
many others, is apt to become epidemic among the men of a regi- 
ment. In one instance which came under my notice, five men of 
one corps complained that they suffered from incontinence of urine, 
and were in consequence of their allegation brought forward by a 
credulous commanding officer to be dischargrd. 

Dr. Cheyne. in his Letter to Dr. Kenny, states a curious fact, 
which shows the importance of attending lo the subject of feigned 
disease among soldiers. During: the ytar 1803, the medical charge 
of a regiment of Irish militia devolved upon a private practitioner, 
unacquainted with the diseases or the tricks of soldiers. In a short 
time a number of the men were admitted into hospital, in conse- 
quence of alleged incontinence of urine. TJiis imposition extended 
to such a degree among the men, that numbers of them had their 
white breeches conipletely destroyed by urine. The imposition 
was instantly discovered hy Deputy-Inspector Comyns, and the 
progress of the epidemic arrested, by ordering all the men who had 
"spoiled their clothes to be marched to a lake, morning and evening, 
for the purpose of cold bathing. 

3. Calcuhts vesicai. ^\o\\?i in the bladder is a rare disease in 
the army, and 1 believe it is generally considered an adequate cause 
for dischap^riiig a man. Lithotomy is very seldom performed. Dr. 
Hennen, in his chapter on the Examination of Recruits, {Princi- 
ples of Military Surgery,) states, that "diseases of the urinary 
passages, and stone in the bladder, are a sufficient cause for rejec- 
tion." I prestime the attenipt to ascertain, by means of a sound, 
whether a recruit suffered from stone, never was made; I should 
certainly consider it a highly inexpedient nieasnre. 

Class VI. Diseases and Lesions of the Skin and Cellular 

Membrane. 

1. Ulcers. It appears, by the Circular Letter from the Medical 
Board, bearing dale 22d January, 1830, that rather more than 100 
mer] are on an average annually discharged on account of "ulcers 
and varices." How far this may be a jiigher or a lower ratio of 
discharges on account of ulcers than at present, I liave no means 
of ascertaining. Disabilities such as ulcers, which are easily pro- 



I 



ULCERS. 



101 



duced by artificial means, require to be carefully invcstioralcd. The 
practice of exciting ulcers in the arnjy durin^^ the Inst war is said 
to have prevailed to a considerable extent; tlie means comnjonly 
employed were corrosives or irritants, such as nitric acid, acetate 
of copper, quicklime, lime and soap, bruised ^arhc and vinegar. 
In India, the juice of the euphorbium is printipaliy used. Mecha- 
nical means are also sometimes adopted, particularly abrasion ; this 
object is attained by rubbing the skin over the shin-bone with a 
small quantity of sand, so as to excite inflammation, the sand being 
allowed to remain on the irritated surface. Ulcers of a very in- 
tractable Jiature are rapidly excited upon old cicatrices by this 
means. The intesfuments which surround faciilious ulcers are in 
general more healthy and less callous than when the ulceration is 
spontaneous. To prevent suspected impostors from applying irri- 
tating substances to ulcers on the legs, it is frequently necessary to 
seal the bandages, which measure is so far efTectual as to prevent 
the dressings from being removed unknown to the nndical officer, 
but it does not altoo^ether prevent the injurious application of me- 
chanical means. Wooden boxes, when they are constructed so as 
to prevent the introduction of a rod at the top, are more etrectual. 
The following cases will show the difficulty which sometimes 
occurs in discovering the cause of an ulcer. 

Mr. W. had a man under his care on account of an ulcer on his 
leaf, which was suspected to be factitious. Sealed bandages, and 
eventually a tin case for the leg, were tried, but still the ulcer con- 
tinued to spread, and it was presumed some means were adopted to 
prevent the sore from healing. There was a man in hos[)ital at 
the same tiu)e. whose leg Mi. W. had aujputated, and who, seem- 
ingly influenced by gratitude, told Mr. W. privately, that the man 
with the ulcer on his leg had v^. "receipt" for exciting several dis- 
eases, in his knapsack, which was forthwith examined and the 
document found. It contained instructions for injuring an eye, 
simulatinjr hernia, and exciting an ulcer. Factitious blindness was 
to be effected by "the prog of a needle in sight of the eye," and 
after a pension had been procured, soft soap was to be applied to 
the eye, by which means it was stated that vision would be restored. 
A rupture was to be simulated by inflating the cellular membrane, 
'or by tying a ligature round the dartos. To excite or imitate an 
ulcer, yellow arsenic was to be employed. Although this man was 
not allowed to have access to his ulcer, he found means for some 
time to introduce a small portion of yellow arsenic into the sponge 
with which it was washed, and by this means the sore continued 
to spread. His scheme failed chiefly in consequence of the infor- 
mation received from the man in question. 

Impostors are very rarely, indeed almost never, detected by means 
of information obtained from their comrades, although exceptions 
occasionally occur, as in the following case. 



102 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING OF SOLDIERS. 

Private P. Devlin was admitted into the hospital of the regi- 
ment, when it was stationed in St. Plelena, in consequence of an 
extensive nicer on the outside of one of his thio:hs, a little above 
the knot', which mended rapidly nnder the nse of common dress- 
inops. before the ulcer had, however, completely healed, the newly 
formed skin was found one mornins:, to ihe extent of a halfpenny, 
in a slouirliing- state. Ai^aiti the ulcer be^an to iniprove, and was 
nearly skinned over, when the slonohing process reappeared. Sus- 
picion was excited, and the hospital Serjeant and orderlies were 
directed carefully to watch the man, with a view of detecting him. 
At lenrrth the artifice was discovered. A soldier was in hospital, 
in consequence of punishment, to whose back the man who had 
the nicer applied a nostrum, and told him he might remain in hos- 
pital as long as he pleased, provided he would inviolably keep the 
secret. The application produced excessive pain, with inflammation, 
and extensive sloughing of the back, and eventually the man 
became alarmed, and told the whole story. The impostor who 
made the application was tried by a court-martial, and received 
corporal punishment. It was found that the irritant en;ployed to 

excite the slouo^hing was a slice of the apple, a plant that 

abounds in St. Helena, but the scientific name of which I have not 
learned. 

Unless in cases where ulceration is accompanied l.y varices, and 
where the constitution is unsound, it is very rarely necessary to 
discharge a man on account of this disabflity. 

2. (Edema siodled leg-, Diseases of the lower extremitiis 
contribute in a remarkable degree to disqualify soldiers for military 
duty, and althout{h osdema or anasarca of a leg is a rare disease, 
the simulation of this disability occurs occasionally. 

A private belono^ing to the regiment arrived at the invalid 

depot, Chatham, from India, during the sun)mer of 1829. He was 
sent home in consequence of alleged elephantiasis of the left leg 
and foot, which, according to the man's own statement, had super- 
vened wliile he was suffering: under an obstinate intermittent fever. 
He was admitted into Fort Pitt general hospital, and the following 
is an outline of his case at the time of admission. The left leg and 
foot were greatly swollen : the swelling' was rem.arkably firm ; the 
integuments wore dry, rough, and dark-coloured : the knee-joint 
had partly lost its mobility. The ma.'i's general health v/as good, 
and the enlarofoment of ihe iirnb was reported to have existed for 
about eiorhteen months. Shortly after admission into hospital, it 
was discovered that he had a I aiidage bound tightly round the left 
thigh, V7hich he stated h;; had "worn by the advice of his doctor, 
for the purpose of preventing the disease from extending to his 
belly." From this period, care was taken that he should not have 
it in his power to apply another li^^ature, and in the course of eight 
or ten days the siza of his limb was greatly reduced; the skin had 
in somo de^jree assumed its usual colour, and hardly any symptom 



I 



(EDEMA. 103 

remained of the disability for which he had been admitted into 
hospital, except a sHght stiffness of the knee-joinf. probably arising 
from long-continued inaction. 

Dimensions of the limb in inches : 

Thigh. Cf. ofleg. Ankle. Instep. 

On adnriission into hospital, ^ ^-,3 .^i ., ^ -,. 

25lh October, 1829, \ ^'^* ^^^ ^"^ ^^ 

Six days after the removal / ^r^ i - 1 4 n 

. of.heligamre, \ ^0 lo 11,. 9 

Mr. Jones, assistant inspector of hospitals, had a sergeant under 
his care on account of swelling and inflammation of the right leg, 
and the means usually adopted in like cases were employed without 
success. Mr. Jones, at one time, thought there was an abscess in 
the leg, and had a lancet in his hand for the purpose of opening it, 
but, thinking the feeling of fluctuation not sufficiently obvious, he 
desisted. From the anomalous character of the symptoms, Mr. 
Jones suspected that some means were employed to excite and 
prolono^ the affection, and, with the view of discovering whether his 
suspicions had a good foundation, he visited the hospital one 
evening when he was not expected, and, promptly proceeding to 
the Serjeant's bed, turned off the bed-clothes, and discovered' the 
trace of a ligature round the thigh, for, nofwithstanding his expe- 
dition, the cord had been removed and concealed. The swelling 
had almost completely disappeared by the following morning. It is 
worthy of observation, that the Serjeant did not show the slightest 
reluctance to the insertion of the abscess lancet when Mr. Jones had 
it in his hand for thnt purpose. 

(Edema and swelling of an arm have been excited by similar 
means. Dr. Fallot gives an account of a soldier who was twice 
admitted into hospital in consequence of swelling of the left forearm 
and hand. During the first period he was in hospital, an incision 
was made on the back of the hand, for the purpose of giving exit 
to the contents of what was supposed to be an abscess, but nothing 
esciiped except some dark-coloured blood. The second lime he 
was admitted, it was discovered that the swelling was occasioned 
by a ligature round the arm. 

Isfordink once met with a case of anomalous disease of the 
extremities, which had been artificially excited by means of a 
ligature. The soldier complained of rheumatic pains, and after 
employing a variety of remedial means he was directed to use the 
warm bath. VVIien he was undressed ibr the bath, the impress of 
a tight ligature was observed on each arm and leg; he seemed 
to have applied a leather thong alternately to the ditTerent extremi- 
ties. 



104 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTMENT, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

Class VII. Diseases and impaired Function of the Organs of 

hoconwtion. 

I. Rheumatic pains. Under the head of rheumatism a great 
number of soldiers are annually discharged. Chronic rheumatism 
is an adequate cause for discharging a soldier, when it occurs in an 
individual who has been long in the service with impaired general 
healtli, enlargement of the joints, and extenuated extremities. 
Rheumatism may, no doubt, attack young men, and disable them 
for a longer or shorter period, but it rarely disqualifies an individual 
permanently for military duty. 

Rheumatism is frequently counterfeited by soldiers, more espe- 
cially those who have served the period which entitles them to a 
pension for life, provided they are discharged as disqualified for 
military duty. These men commonly think that to gain their 
object, it is only necessary to affirm that they have pain in some of 
the joifjts, to put on the aspect of suffering, and affect decrepitude 
or loss of power in the limbs. The back, loins, and hips are the 
parts usually selected, the knee, ankle, and superior extremities less 
frequently. In general, there is no adequate cause assigned for the 
complaint, and no relief from remedial treatment is acknowledged, 
and while real rheumatic affections are commonly aggravated by 
changes of weather, the impostor complains equally at all times. 
When he is asked how he is to-day, his usual answer is, " Just the 
same, sir." Patients of this kind seem to think that the constant 
use of a crutch or stick, and a ready submission to such remedies 
as blisters, issues, (fee. affords irrefragable evidence of the reality 
and the alleged degree of their disability. When the disability is 
real, the patient is commonly found in bed, or moving about very 
leisurely; whereas, in simulated rheumatism, if we surprise cases, 
they will frequently be found apparently at their ease, and enjoying 
the amusements of their comrades. Perhaps there is no class of 
disabilities which requires more care and more caution on the part 
of medical officers than cases of alleged pain, rheumatism, lumbago, 
(fee, in men of comparatively short service. The most experienced 
eye, the soundest judgment, and the most delicate tact may be 
deceived ; for many a soldier has been discharged, and even pen- 
sioned, in consequence of alleged chronic rheumatism, whose health 
was good, and who satisfactorily demonstrated that he had the 
complete use of his limbs almost immediately after he regained his 
liberty. When the health is good, and the seat of the alleged pain 
unaffected by swelling or increased temperature, a medical officer 
will probably, in nineteen out of twenty cases, be safe in concluding 
that no material, or at any rate no permanent disease exists. To 
admit the allegation of wandering pains unsupported by physical 
changes as an adequate cause for discharging young men, is to 
open a door for simulation, which it would "be impossible to shut. 

However frequently the existence of pain may be alleged with- 




RHEUMATIC PAINS. 105 

out foundation, no man should be pronounced or even presumed to 
be a nialinoferer until careful exatnination, hospital discipline, and 
adequate observation, have afforded a medical officer the requisite 
opportunity of arriving at a sound conclusion. The following 
brief history of a case will show the propriety of this precaution. 

When Dr. G was surgeon to the regiment, he 

admitted a private into hospital, in conseqiience of a large ulcer of 
iYie leo", which was eventually presumed to be self-made. When 

the soldier was discharired from hospital, Dr. G told him 

that it was perfectly evident he had himself made the ulcer, and 
recommended him to abstain from such practices, as care would be 
taken that he should not continue them with impunity. In a few 
weeks this man returned to hospital, complaining of pain in the 
articulation of the right thigh. There was no obvious swelling or 
discoloration, and as he had the character of being a malingerer, 
strong and apparently well grounded suspicions were entertained 
that the alleged disability was merely pretended. The doctor did 
not decide precipitately, but prudently resolved to allow some time 
to elapse before he made up his mind on the case. Violent inflam- 
mation eventually came on, which terminated in permanent loss of 
motion of the joint. This man was a profligate character, and 
had lain in a state of intoxication on his right side in a ditch, 
for nearly the whole night, previously to his being admitted into 
hospital. 

This case is very instructive. It strongly inculcates the propriety 
of proceeding with great caution under a\\ circumstances, and of 
letting the evidence of neither good nor bad previous conduct 
suspend a careful investigation of symptoms in each case. Finesse 
will sometimes succeed in detecting imposture, when harsh mea- 
sures would completely fail. 

The late Dr. Davies, surgeon to the East India Company's depot, 
Chatham, had a young soldier under his care, who alleged that, in 
consequence of a severe pain of the back, he was unable to move 
or to be moved from his bed. His alleged pain had existed for 
about a month, and still no indication appeared that he intended to 
return to his duty. For. the convenience of being watched, &c. he 
was accommodated in a ward by himself. Dr. Davies, who con- 
sidered him an impostor, saw no prospect of his giving in a 
circumstance which induced him to adopt a very simple measure 
for his detection. He went to the window of the ward in the dusk 
of the eveninar, and after gently tapping upon the glass, he in a low 
lone called the man by name, he was at the window in an instant, 
and the doctor had the pleasure of congratulating him upon the 
recovery of his locomotive faculty. This man went forthwith to 
his duty. 

Dr. Fallot succeeded in restoring a malingerer to his duty by a 
new plan of treatment. A deserter who, after being for some time 
pursued by the gens d/armes^ was eventually caught, and brought 



100 MARSHALL OX THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



to Nainiir, alleged that l;e Wad lost the pcnver of rnovinpr one of his 
lower limbs, winch was as piuttip and as warm as the other. Ctip- 
ping, blisters, and moxas produced no good etfect. After being fi 
long time; in hospital, Dr. Fallot adopted the plan of treat meni 
recommended for gout by Cadet de Vanx, namely, causing his 
patient to swallow a large qnaniity of warm water. The man took 
the first dos(; with apparent resignation, but his conraj^e failed him 
before it required to be repeated. Without giving any explanation, . 
or making any confession, he stated in a few days that he wasqnite 
well, and able to proceed to his duly. 

Mr. Bourchier, surgeon to the 3Gth regiment, succeeded in restor- 
ing a man to the ranks, who had been long under liis care for 
alleged lumbago, by introducing a little tartar emetic into his food, 
which produced the usual effects sickness and vomiting. The 
man became alarmed, and forthwith sent for a priest. He soon 
returned to his duty. 

In no case should means be adopted to induce a suspected malin- 
gerer to give in, which a medical cfficer would regret having 
employed, were the disability to prove real. If a suspected patient 
possesses sufficient fortitude to support a rigorous trial, the medical 
officer who directed it will be regarded with indi<>ncition, while the 
patient is considered a martyr by his eornr;ides. There is good 
reason to conclude, that many a simulator has persisted in his plan 
of endeav^ouring to obtain his discharge, and has uiidergone great 
physical pain, even corporal punishment, without IJinchiug. Dr. 
Cheyne relates the case of a man "who pretended that he laboured 
under rheumatism, and, after persevering for four months, bent 
nearly double, was at last tried by a court-martial, convicted of 
malingering, and sentenced to receive 3U0 lashes. One hundred 
and fifty were inflicted without flinching, he obstinately declaring 
his utter inability to stand erect." He gave in, liowever, on being 
ordered out to receive the remainder of his punishment, and became 
a good soldier. Had second punishment been declared illegal, 
when this man was tried, it might have been supposed that he suf- 
fered under a real disability. The custom of inflicting second 
punishment prevailed more or less till within a few years; but it has 
been gradually falling into desuetude since Mr. Manners Sutton 
stated in the house of commons, in February, 1813, his opinion o( 
its impropriety and injustice. 

2. Lameness old fractures. Soldiers are frequently proposed 
for discharge in consequence of lameness, alleged to be the result of 
a bruise or an injury, of which, perhaps, there is no other evidence 
but their own testimony. Some men will persist for a number of 
years, complaining of pain, and loss of power of an inferior extremi- 
ty, and assert that they are unable to perform their duty, while 
there is no obvious cause of lameness. In doubtful cases, a medical 
officer may ask himself the following questions, Is it probable 
that the circumsiaiice to which the lameness is ascribed could 







LAMENISSS. 



107 



occasion genuine disease? Is the allc^^cd disal ility a consequence 
of the ascribed cause? By attentively investi<raliiig these points, he 
will probably arrive at as definitive a concUision as the nature of 
the subject will warrant. Simulators of lameness, like tfiose who 
feign other disabilities, are liable to give very exaggerated accounts 
of their feelings; for example, they will assert that the uneasiness 
occasioned by tlie application of a blister is excruciating, and that 
it has excited a variety of tormeiiUng sensations far beyond its 
usual effects. 

A fracture of a lower extremity is fre([uently assigned as a cause 
of lameness, indeed, n)any soldiers seem to think that they ought 
to be discharged when they happen to get a leg fractured ; and it 
would appear, by a circular leKer from the medical department, 
dated 22J January, 1830, that a number of men are annually dis- 
charged on this account. In civil life, persons usually recover 
completely from the disabling effects of a fractured liaib; and there 
seems no reason why soldiers should not be equally fortunate; 
apparently tliey have a much better chance of recovery than the 
labourino: classes of the connnunity, inasmuch as, from the moment 
of the accident, they are attended by a medical officer, and receive 
not only the most appropriate treatment, but every necessary ac- 
commodation which their situation requires. 

When a soldier who has had a leg fractured wishes to obtain his 
discharge and a p)ension, he commonly refuses to admit that he has 
recovered the use of his limb ; he affects lameness, and complains 
of pain at the part where the fracture took place, and upon these 
grounds endeavours to establish his inability for duty, and conse- 
quently his claim to be discharged. He frequently, however, fails 
in his schem(3 by overacting". But it is not only the disabling 
effects of an actual fracture which are sometimes feigned ; impostors 
occasionally assert that a limb has been fractured, when no evi- 
dence of it can be adduced but that of their own testimony. While 
I was e.mployed in examiiiing the inefficient men of the troops 
stationed in the Northern and North British districts, I met with 
liiree cases of this kind, where a thigh-bone was said (o have been 
fractured. Each of the men stated that the accident took place 
while he was absent from the regiment, and while none of his com- 
rades were with him. He walked lame, and the alleged fractured 
linib seemed shorter than the otlier. Tiiere was no trace of callus, 
or displacement of the ends of the bone, and the limb was not 
extemiated. I soon discovered by what means the extremity 
appeared to be diminished in length; for when the men were placed 
on tlieir back, I found the muscles of the alleged infirm limb pow- 
erfully contracted, while those of the other thigh were relaxed and 
soft. All the three men were cividently great adepts in this Uieans 
of imposition, and, although they belonged to different regiments, 
the plan they tollowed was very similar. 

The disabling effects of disease of the hip-joint are sometifnes 
counterfeited by the same means, and for a similar purpose. 



108 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

The simulation of lameness is not confined to European soldiers. 
Seapoys and native drai^oons belonging to the honourable the East 
India Company's service are not exempt from this military delin- 
quency, as will appear by the following extract from a a^eneral order 
issued by the Marquis of Hastings, Calcutta, 29th March, 1818. 

"The commander-in-chief lakes this opportunity of cautioninj^ 
the men of the native cavalry ao^ainst a practice which is under- 
stood to be by no means uncommon among- them, viz. that of men 
who receive simple fractures, or other hiirts by falls from their 
horses, or other accidents, using^ means to distort their limbs, and 
otherwise to retard and render imperfect the cure of such parts, for 
the purpose of being placed on the invalid establishment; any man 
found guilty of the practice in future is to be reported to head- 
quarters, it being the commander-in-chief's determination, not to 
allow any mnlins^erer^ or person guilty of using: means to render 
himself unfit for duty, to remain in the service or burden the invalid 
establishment." 

Isfordink succeeded twice in detecting a case of simulated lame- 
ness, by giving his patient a drastic purgative, likely to operate 
during night, and stationing a trustworthy orderly to watch his 
passage to the water-closet. The first time he proceeded to the 
closet, he limped all the way, but subsequently, being in greater 
hurry, and thinking himself not perceived, he moved with a free 
and quick step. 

The passion of fear is sometimes usefully excited in cases of 
counterfeited lameness, by hinting the propriety and expediency of 
adopting some disagreeable remediable means at a fixed period, 
should no re(;overy take place before that time. When the actual 
cautery has been talked of, a patient has sometimes regained his 
efllciency before the period it was proposed to be applied. 

3. Deformity of the spine. Of all disabilities which disqualify 
men for military service, personal deformity would appear to be the 
most unlikely to be feigned, as the imposture is so easily detected. 
Malformation has, however, been frequently simulated by recruits, 
and in some instances with success. 

E. Brady, a recruit for the 58th regiment, was approved by Mr. 
M'lieod, lately surjreon to the 42d regiment, and acting district sur- 
geon in Dublin, in Auorust, 1819. He was forwarded to the army 
depot. Isle of Wight, where he feigned malformation so effectually, 
that a board of medical officers, which was assembled on the 4th 
September, to report on his case, found that he was unfit for the 
service, on account "of deformity of the spine and chest strong 
inclination of the body to the right side, defective motion of the 
right arm and letr pain on pressure upon the spinous processes of 
several of the dorsal vertebrae." In compliance with the finding of 
the board he was discharged; he returned to Dublin, where he was 
minutely examined on the 22d September, by Dr. Peile, deputy- 
inspector of hospitals, the late Dr. Thomas Brown, and the late 



MUTILATION. ^^^^^^109? 

Mr. Todd, professor of anatomy, who found his spine and chest well 
formed, no inclination of the body to the ric^ht side, or defect in the 
power of motion of the right arm and leg; and tfiat he did not 
complain of pain on pressure upon the spinous jirocesses of tlie 
dorsal vertebras. But, previously to the latter examination, tlie 
object for which deformity had been simulated, was obtained. In 
January, 1822, Brady enlisted for the 89ih regiment, and was 
approved at Newry, by staff-surgeon R. J. Brown. The above case 
is by no means a solitary instance of success in this variety of 
imposition. T. Darby, a recruit for the 59th regiment, was 
approved by Dr. Thomas Brown during the autumn of 1821, and 
transferred to the depot of the corps in' the Isle of Wight. The 
nature of ihe farce he acted there may be inferred from the sub- 
joined copy of a report made on his case, by a board of medical 
officers: ''The board have minutely examined recruit. Timothy 
Darby, 59th regiment, and tind a curvature of the upper part of 
the spine, with deformity of the chest and shoulders, the left shoulder 
nearly two inches higher than the ritrht, and the body slightly bent 
forward, with the head inclining to the left side. He has been in 
hospital upwards of two months, under observation and treatment ; 
large caustic issues have been made on each side of the s[)ine, and 
the cou-h and pain he complained of on admission are removed ; 
the board are of opinion, that the deformity is incurable, and 
recommet]d his removal from the service." This report is dated 
10th December, and Darby was discharged on the I3th of the same 
month, '' m consequence (as his discharge stated) of a deformity in 
the spine and chest." Dr. Brown having been furnished with a 
copy of the above report very naturally inferred that there must be 
some l>.-Mjd in the business, as it was morally impossible that he 
would have approved of so deformed an object as appeared to be 
described by the board. Darby was intercepted on his return home 
through Dublin ; and on the 21st January, 1822, he was inspected 
by three eminent surgeons, Messrs. Colles, Todd, and Cusack, an 
extract from whose report I shall suhjoin : " We have this day 
minutely inspected Timothy Darby, and we are of opinion, that he 
does not labour under any disease or deformity of the spine or chest; 
on the contrary, he appears to be remarkably well formed." On 
the 2d of November, 1825, Darby enlisted for the 87th regiment, 
but apparently presuming that he woiild be rejected, on account of 
the cicatrices of two laro^e issues on his back, he refused to accept 
of a smaller sum than five shillings as enlistment money from the 
recruiting Serjeant. He was brought to me for inspection, and I 
found him fit for the service, being perfectly aware at the time 
that Darby had been found unfit by a medical board. He was soon 
after transferred to the depot of the 87th regiment, and finally 
approved. 

4. Contraction.^!. The continued and rigid contraction of a joint 
does not frequently occur among soldiers without some obvious ex- 
ternal cause. This variety of disability used, however, to be very 
8 b 8 mai' 



110 MARSHALL ON THK ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

often simulated, and perhaps it is still pretended occasionally. The 
parts most frequently alleged to be atiected are the neck, constitut- 
intJ- an imitation of lory-nvrk ; the vertebral cohimn sininlatingf 
crooked-back^ the shoiilder-jnutt, the elbow-joint^ the knee-joint and 
the fingers. 

Contraction of a joint is usually attributed to chronic rheuma- 
tism, or to an injury. In consequence of inaction, and sometimes 
by means of bandasfes put on by stealth, the alleged infirm limb be- 
comes occasionallv a little extenuated. Sometimes the suspicions 
of a medical officer are not excited till an impostor presumes that 
his success is nearly secure, in other words, that he has '-done 
enough," and when a schemer happens to be transferred to the care 
of a new medical attendant, his prospect of success l)ecomes still 
more certain. It is not always easy to arrive at a definite conclu- 
sion in reofard to an alle.fred disability of this kind, for medical offi- 
cers well know that a considerable degree of disease inay exist in a 
joint without any well-marked external character. The investiga- 
tion of each case should be conducted with care and patience, and 
in this, as in most other alleged disabilities, a medical officer should 
not profess to discover imposture at once even u^hen the imposition 
is pretty obvious. 

Wryneck. A man belonging to regiment was about to be 

discharged from the service in consequence of this disability, when, 
on accountof intoxication, he was confined to the guard-room. Here 
he quarreled with his comrades, and, during the scuffle, forgot his 
assumed infirmity, by which means the imposture was discovered. 
Crooked-back. The perseverance with which this disability has 
been simulated, and the irksomeness of the posture assumed by in- 
dividuals, would greatly exceed belief, did the facts not depend upon 
the most undoubted authority. 

A man named Fitzo^erald, belono-ins: to the second battalion, royal 
regiment, while serving in India, alleged that, in consequence of an 
injury on his loins, he was unable to stand upright. For a period 
of eighteen months he walked with his body bent forward in such 
a manner that his fingers nearly touched the ground. Neither me- 
dical nor moral means had any influence in restoring him to the 
ranks. He held out until a communication was received from the 
Horse Guards, authorising commanding officers to re-enlist men 
whose period of service had expired, and that, when approved, they 
were to receive a bounty of sixteen guineas. This was the case 
with Fitzgerald; and two days after the arrival of the commuuica 
tion had been announced, he presented himself for inspection as^ 
straight as a well drilled soldier before the medical officer unde 
whose care he had long been. Moral turpitude, not physical disa-^ 
bility, prevented his being re-enlisted into the royal regiment ; but he' 
eventually enlisted in the 25th regiment of dragoons, which was at 
that time in India. 

Private J. W. regiment was sent home from India to be in- 
valided, and on the 10th of June 1828, was admitted into Fort Pitt 



I 



J 



CONTRACTIONS. Ill 

ijeneral hospiti.1. He stooped so much that the upper half of his 
body foruied nearly a right angle with his inferior extremities, and 
he usually moved from place io place by the help of a stick about 
two feet iono: which he grasped by the middle. This disability was 
eventually presumed to be feigned, and he was consequently placed 
on his back on the floor, under the superintendence of a medical 
officer, when he held his legs in nearly a vertical direction, and com- 
plained most piteously upon any attempt being made to put his in> 
ferior extremities upon the same line with his body. This position 
was reversed, and for some time he supported himself on his tiead. 
hands, and feet. He soon became tired of this state of prostration, 
and at last, when he could endure it no longer, he stretched his legs 
fully out, and lay flat upon his chest and stomach. He then warmly 
expressed his gratitude to the medical officer for having so effect- 
ually cured him of a disability under which he had so long suffered, 
and observed, that, if the surgeon of the corps to which he belonged 
had done as much for him in India, what a happy man he should 
have been ! ! He was discharged to duty on the 7th August, 1828. 

Crooked back is occasionally feigned in this country as well as 
in India. I am aware of one case which was cured not long ago 
by means of a warm-bath ; the patient was placed in a cask, and 
water gradually added until he found it expedient to stand upright 
to prevent being drowned ; he was not aware of the ultimate object 
of the bath, and consequently he was in some measure taken by 
surprise. 

The shoulder-joint. A soldier belonging to regiment, 

while it was serving in the Bombay presidency, was brought before 
an ''invaliding board," in consequence of alleged immobility of the 
right arm, which projected from the shoulder, forming a right angle 
with the side. Nothing satisfactory could be ascertained in regard 
to the origin of the disability. The evidence of the medical officer 
imder whose care he had been, together with that of his comrades, 
tended to prove that the arm had been unintermittingly extended 
in the manner described for a period of about sixteen months, and 
that, although various means had been employed to flex the shoul- 
der-joint, they all had been ineffectual. The invaliding board 
recommended him to be discharo^ed, as being unfit for the service ; 
and this recommendation was subsequently approved by the medical 
hoard at Bombay. Just on the eve of embarkation, the man in 
question was walking with a large bottle of arrack under his left 
arm, when a person approached him unperceived and seized it. 
l'\niringthat the prize might be lost, he instinctively bent the right 
shoulder-joint^ and tirmly grasped the bottle with the right hand. 
This circumstance v/as accidentally observed by an officer who 
knew him: the man was forthwith tried by a court-martial, and 
sentenced to receive 1000 lashes. 

It is probable that the immobility of tlie shoulder-joint was 
simulated in imitation of the Indian Fakirs, who exhibit strange 



112 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

displays of self-penance and mortification. I received my infor- 
mation in regard to this case from the president of the "invalidir>g 
board" which recommended the man to be discharged. 

The elbow-joint. When Dr. G. was on duty at York hospital 
as staft-surgeon, a serjeant belonging to the German legion was 
admitted a patient, in consequence of an alleged contraction of the 
elbow-joint of the right arm. This man bore a remarkably good 
character, as may be inferred from the circumstance of his having 
been for a number of years orderly-serjeant to a general officer. 
Documents accompanied him to the hospital, testifying the fact of 
his having, while on duty, met with an accident, to which the 
lameness of his arm was attributed, and also bearing evidence of 
his excellent moral and military character. Dr. G. did not suffer 
himself to be put oft' his guard by testimony; but, having carefully 
examined the arm, came to the conclusion, that, in all probability, 
the disability was feigned. The means of detection were ingenious 
and successful. He placed a small cushion between the arm and 
side of the serjeant, so as to prevent him from resting the elbow on 
the hip. He then held his own arm in a position similar to that of 
the Serjeant's, and desired an assistant to append, by degrees, equal 
weights to his hand, and to that of the patient. Dr. G.'s arm 
bpcame overburdened, and, being unable longer to support the 
weights, he straightened his elbow-joint, and placed them on the 
ftnor. The serjeant continued, however, to keep the joint in a flexed 
state, but at length the arm began to quiver; a circumstance which 
tiie doctor quickly noticed, and coming unperceived behind him, 
completed the extension by the aid of his hand. 

The knee-joint, Cases of simulated contraction of this joint 
are not rare. One occurred in the Royal regiment in India. The 
medical officer who had charge of the regiment was satisfied that 
the disability was feigned; for although he could easily straighten 
the leg, it was instantly retracted when the force applied was with- 
drawn, but the impudent impostor would not give in. He was 
transferred to the care and discipline of the commanding-officer, 
who directed him to be paraded daily at the orderly room, where 
he was extended on a cot or platform under his own superin- 
tendence, and the contracted limb straightened and retained in this 
condition for about two hours. Day after day the same process 
was repeated for a long time, without any advantage, and, after a 
period of about eighteen months, the patience of the commanding- 
officer became exhausted, and the man was discharged. 

I had a case in many respects similar under my care ; a Mussul- 
man, a native of Bengal, enlisted in the troop of Ceylon cavalry, 
but after a few weeks, he alleged that his right knee-joint had 
become contracted, and that he was lame. I succeeded easily in 
straightening the limb without effecting any permanent advantage; 
he continued to persist in simulating lameness with so much 



CONTRACTIONS. 113 

perseverance that, although it was quite obvious he was an impostor, 
he obtained his discharge. 

The fingers of a hand. A man of the 52d regiment alleged 
that the fingers of his right hand had suddenly, and without any- 
obvious cause,J)ecome contracted, by which means his fist was 
permanently closed. He was long in hospital, but the disability 
remained. General Ross, who then commanded the corps, directed 
him to be confined in a solitary cell, in which was an elevated 
shelf; his left hand was secured to his body, and a loaf of bread 
and a pitcher of water were placed upon the shelf, so that he could 
not partake of them without employing the contracted hand. At 
the end of the first twenty-four hours the bread and water were 
untouched, bnt, by the termination of another diurnal period, the 
bread had disappeared, and the pitcher was empty. The soldier 
returned to his duty. 

It is in general much more difficult to deal with an exaggerated 
disability than with a completely feigned infirmity. A uiedical 
officer belonoing to the depot of a regiment, lately approved of a 
recruit for the corps, and probably, from omitting to follow the 
prescribed routine for the examination of recruits, a slight contrac- 
tion of a finger escaped notice. Nothing was said of this blemish 
until the recruit was some time at drill, and had become tired of 
being a soldier, when he asserted from day to day that he was 
unable to handle the musket. Every attempt to induce him to 
do his duty failed, and the medical officer, rather than have his 
oversight reported to the authorities, deposited 20 for the pur- 
pose of purchasing the man's discharge, by which means he left 
the service. 

The investigation of a case of alleg^ed contraction of a joint 
should be conducted with much care and patience, and no fact 
connected with the history of the disability should escape due 
attention. Mildness, firmness, attention, and perseverance, will, I 
believe, in general succeed in satisfactorily discovering whether it 
is real or feigned. Various means have been employed in suspi- 
cious cases of contraction, and sometimes a measure which has 
been successful in one case, lias failed in unveiling truth in another. 
A tourniquet applied to tlie thigh in a case of contracted knee-joint 
has an excellent eff'ect in destroying the voluntary action of the 
muscles, and in relaxing simulated rigidity. Some men cannot 
endure repeated shocks of electricity, and consequently report 
favourably of its influence in restoring the motion of a stiff'-joint; 
other individuals will bear the application of this agent in almost 
any degree without flinching. 

It is frequently usetui to depart from the usual mode of exam- 
ining a case of alleijed disease when its existence is doubtful. I 
recollect being asked to look at an old soldier who had been long 
in a civil hospital on account of alleged contraction of the left 
knee, and after approaching the side of the bed. and examining the 



114 MARSEIALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

knee, 1 desired him to lie upon his face, hy which means the rio^ht 
le^ assumed the place of the left. I then placed my hand upon the 
ri^ht knee, which became orradually flexed, while the contraction 
of the left knee disappeared. This man's attention was so com- 
pletely en ^aofed with the right knee when it was under examination, 
that he forgot that it was his left knee which he had allcijed was 
contracted. 

5. Mutilation. I am not aware that any regulation has been 
issued in this country, specifying the smallest degree of the muti- 
lation of a hand or a foot, which would warrant a soldier being 
discharged as disqualified for military service; but conscripts are, 
in the eye of the law, soldiers, and the following rule which obtains 
in the French and other continental armies may, so far at least as 
efficiency is concerned, apply also to soldiers in the British army. 

France. The total loss of a thumb, or a great toe, or the index- 
finger of the right hand, or two fingers of one hand, or two toes 
of one foot. 

Prussia. Loss of a thumb, or the index-finger of the right hand. 
Loss of a great toe. 

Netherlands. Loss of a thumb, or of a great toe, or of the 
index-finger of the right hand, of two fingers of one hand, or two 
toes of one foot. 

Belgium. Loss of a thumb, or of the first phalanx of an index- 
finger, or of more tlian one finger or toe. 

The loss of a thumb, or the index-finger of the right hand, or a 
great toe, unfits a soldier for duty, and warrants his being discharged; 
but the loss of any other finger or toe does not, I presume, completely 
disqualify him for the army. 

Mutilation has been long practised by conscripts as a means of 
exemption from serving: in the army, and by soldiers for the purpose 
of being dischars^ed from the service. Constantino made a law, 
directing that soldiers who mutilated tfiemselves should be branded, 
and that they should not be discharged ; but be employed at what- 
ever labour they were capable of performin^:. Valentinianus and 
Valens confirmed this law, and ordered that the mutilators should 
be still more severely punished. The practice of mutilating the 
hand, by cutting off" some of the fingers, became frequent in the 
time of Theodosius, both among soldiers and persons in civil life 
who were liable to be called to serve in the army. This emperor 
confirmed the laws formerly enacted in regard to poltroons {pollice 
truncus\ persons wlio had b^en guilty of hand-maiming; and, in 
consequence of the difficulty which some of the provinces had to 
raise the full quota of efficient men, he directed that two mutilated 
conscripts should be allowed to reckon as one man of a prescribed 
levy. Thumb-maiming must have been very common at one 
time, when it required such severe enactments against it, and gave 
origin to the term poltroon^ a coward, a dastard, or mean-spirited 
fellow. 

Conscripts for the French army are. by a circular letter of 1819, 



I 



MUTILATION. 115 

to be finally approved, althongh they are mutilated, if it shall appear 
that the miililation was voluntary. The councils of revision 
examine minutely into the circumstances of each case, and when it 
appears that mutilation has been effected intentionally, the follow- 
ing observation is appended to the departmental list : " The council 

is satisfied that has mutilated, or caused himself to be 

mutilated, for the purpose of evadino; a leofal obligation." These 
cases are directed to be reported to the minister at war, who gives 
directions in regard to their future destination. 

These foots show the importance which the voluntary mutilation 
of conscripts and soldiers obtained both under the Roman govern- 
ment, and also at present in France. Until lately, the British 
soldier, having not only the prospect of liberty, but also of an 
annual pension, had a greater inducement to commit this crime 
than the conscripts or soldiers of either of these countries, and 
consequently voluntary maiming was at one time practised to a 
considerable extent. During a period of four years, immediately 
previous to 1829, twenty-one soldiers were pensioned for life in 
Ireland, in consequence of being disabled by the explosion of their 
own muskets. The disabilities thus occasioned, invariably con- 
sisted of mutilations or injuries of the right or left hand. That 
most, if not all of these cases of maiming were voluntarily inflicted, 
hardly admits of a doubt. It cannot have escaped tlie notice of 
officers that, when a soldier meets with an accident, it is almost 
always in the fingers, and many more mutilations take place while 
men are on furlough living with their friends, whom they do not 
wish to leave, than at any other time. 

I have no means of knowing the number of men who may be 
annually discharged in consequence of injuries accidentally re- 
ceived or voluntarily inflicted, without which branch of information 
I am unable fully to show the importance of the subject under 
consideration. 

Suicide, which is the highest degree of mutilation, is, I believe, 
more frequent among soldiers than among men of the same age and 
rank in civil life. The ratio of cases of self-murder amona: the 
cavalry branch of the service has been found to amount for a series 
of years to one suicide out of 20 deaths, or nearly one annually 
per 1000 of the strength. It is obvious that this statement does not 
comprehend the number of men who attempted suicide, but merely 
the cases where the result was fatal. 

The practice of maiming has been so frequent in some regiments 
as to appear epidemic. The author belonged to a regiment in 
which nine men maimed themselves in the course of six weeks, 
and in every instance the injury was presumed to have been inflicted 
voluntarily. The explosion of their own muskets was the plan 
they invariably adopted to effect their purpose; and the injury was 
always in a foot or a hand. They all, as may be inferred, attributed 
the explosion of the musket to accident, and not to desig^n ; but 
one man who maimed himself in a necessary, found much difficulty 



116 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

to account for his taking a loaded musket into a place of that kind. 

Very lately when re^^iment was at Cork, and about to 

embark for tlie West Indies, four of the men made their appearance 
with the first joint of the thumb of the ri^ht hand mutilated. 
Voluntary mutilation sometimes takes place under very exlraordi- 
nary circumstances, even during a conflict with an enemy. 

During the insurrection of the Kandians in 1818, a private, and 

a tailor by trade, helonjjing to regiment, and who had been 

only a short time in the service, was on sentry a little in advance 
of a post occupied by British troops, and while on this duty he was 
occasionally tired at by the enemy from the surrounding- jimgle. 
This man was found severely wounded, the calf of the left leg 
beins: greatly torn, the whole charge of a musket having passed 
through it. He attributed the wound to a shot from the enemy; 
but the black charcoal on the leg, the nature of the injury, and the 
recent explosion of his own musket, told a different tale. He was, 
along with other men of the regiment, discharged, and received a 
pension of sixpence a-day. When I was on duty in Edinburgh as 
stafF-surgeon, (1823,) a pensioner applied to me to report on his 
case, in consequence of an alleged aggravation of the disability for 
which he had been discharged, with a view of moving the lords 
commissioners of Chelsea hospital to increase his pension. He 
complained of a pectoral affection ; but I learned from his "instruc- 
tions," that he had been discharged on account of a gunshot wound 
in the leg, the cicatrix of which he uncovered with great reluctance, 
and by this means I recognised my old patient the tailor. He 
disappeared without repeating his solicitation for me to report upon 
his alleged pectoral complaint. 

In the course of about three years, or from 1819 to 1821, inclu- 
sive, a great number of soldiers belonging to the Bombay European 
reofiment and artillery, mutilated themselves principally by cutting 
off a thumb. Sometimes the wrist-joint of the right arm was 
destroyed by a gunshot wound. At first, these men were sentenced 
by a court-martial to under2:o severe corporal punishment, which 
they received previously to being discharged ; but this measure did 
not arrest the progress of what may be considered an epidemic. 
Subsequently solitary confinement for twelve months was substi- 
tuted for flogging, and apparently with good effect, and examples 
of mutilation became much less frequent than they had been 
formerly ; the long ])rotracted period which elapsed before the men 
were sent home was supposed to have had a greater influence in 
discouraging mutilation than corporal punishment. 

When soldiers are tried by a general court-martial for maiming 
themselves, the result is sometimes published in general orders in 
the following manner: 

G. O. 28th February, 1816. At a general court-martial, private 
J. Lennon, of his majesty^s Royal Scots, was arraigned upon the 
undermentioned charges, viz. 



I 



F 

^^^^ MUTILATION. 117 

^^^B 1st. Highly iinsoldier-like conduct, in wilfully disabling himself 
^^^^y firing a musket ball through his left hand on the night of the 
^^^B8d, or morning of the 24th instant. 

^^^B 2c?. For making away with one round of ball cartridge issued 
^^^HDr field service, camp at Akowla, 24th September, 1815. 
^^^B i^mrf/w^ guilty sentence, to forfeit all benefit arising from his 
^^^Bbrmer services, and to receive lOCO lashes. Confirmed. 
^K^^' (Signed) J. Hislop, Lieut.- General. 

The 26ih and 27th articles of the pensioning regulations of 1829 

direct, that, whenever a soldier is maimed, the circumstances of the 
case are to be investigated by a court-martial, and when it shall 
appear to the court that the injury in question was the eflfect of 
desiorn, the soldier shall not be discharged. In such cases, the 
evidence of a medical officer in regard to the means by which a 
wound was inflicted will very generally be required, and his 
testimony ought invariably to be given with much caution ; for, 
notwithstanding the greatest skill and attention, he will sometimes 
find it not an easy matter to satisfy himself respecting the cause of 
the injury. A careful examination of the wound, aided by collateral 
circumstances, will, however, in many cases, lead to a satisfactory 
conclusion. Very few individuals who mutilate themselves consider 
beforehand in what manner they are to answer the questions, Aov;, 
when, and where the accident happened, and to explain ail the 

accessary circumstances. A private in regiment, to which 

the author belong^ed, was one morning dividing the meat for the 
diflferent messes of a company, when he cut off the thumb of the 
left hand. The mutilation was stated to be the result of accident, 
but when the amputated portion of the thumb was examined, a 
deep incision was found in it, obviously showing that the amputation 
must have been voluntary, and that it had not been accomplished 
by the first stroke of the cleaver. 

A court-martial, when occupied in the investigation of a case of 
maiming, would require to devote great attention even to minute 
incidents, for voluntary mutilation occurs sometimes under very 
remarkable circumstances. There was an instance of voluntary 

mutilation in regiment not long ago. A soldier attempted 

to mutilate a thumb, but his courage failed him, and tlie operation 
was effectually concluded by his wife. A soldier who was at the 
time quartered in the Dublin depot barracks alleged, that, in con- 
sequence of falling forwards upon a fractured glass hottle lying at 
the bottom of the barrack stair, he had a thumb nearly amputated ; 
in fact, a small portion of skin on the palmar side of the hand was 
all that remained. He could not explain why the thumb should 
have been wounded towards the back of the hand by his falling 
forwards, he received 300 lashes. A dragoon asserted that his 
horse bit off the left thumb when he was feeding him, but the traces 
of blood on the man's sword satisfactorily demonstrated that a more 
artificial instrument had been employed than a horse's teeth. Dr. 



118 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

Fallot gives an account of a soldier, who, intending to destroy his 
eyes, threw a quantity of sulphuric acid on his face, bnf, as the 
eyelids were instinctively closed when he moved his hand, the 
eyes wore not injured. This man made several very unsuccessful 
attempts to explain by what means the acid was applied to his face. 
In countries where the armies are recruited by conscription, the 
mutilation of young men who may be enrolled for military service 
is not unfrequent; but, as far as I know, the following circum- 
stance, which marks the popular dislike to the army, is unique in 
this country. 

" A dissolute son of a widow, at Longashford, some time since 
enlisted as a soldier, to the great grief of his parent, who, with much 
difficulty, succeeded in obtaining his release. He has since fre- 
quently threatened to take the same step, with the view of obtaining 
from his mother any object he desired. On Monday he came home 
intoxicated, and his mother, believing that he intended to carry his 
threat into execution, had recourse to the following extraordinary 
expedient for its prevention. With the assistance of her daughter, 
while her son was asleep, she bandaged his wrist to prevent 
hemorrhage, and tlie daujj^hter having placed the fore-finger of his 
right hand on a block, the mother actually chopped it off with a 
hatchet a little beyond the first joint." United Service Gazette, 
l2thNov. 1837. 

Perhaps the most remarkable investigation which ever occurred 
in re^-ard to the mutilation of soldiers happened at Douane, near 
Dresden, 19th June, 1813. After the battles of Liitzen and Bautzen, 
it was represented to Napoleon that a great number of the wounded 
had merely lost fingers, or had their hands injured by musket-balls, 
and suspicions were entertained that the wounds had been volun- 
tarily inflicted. A board of medical officers was directed by the 
emperor to assemble for the purpose of examining 2632 soldiers, 
each of whom had been wounded in a hand. Barron Larrey was 
appointed president of the board. The examination of each man 
was made with great care; 1st. In resfard to the disabling effects 
of the wounds; 20?/^. In regard to their immediate causes; 3dli/. 
Respecting the circumstances which preceded and attended the 
infliction of the injuries. 

The board, after mature deliberation, came to the conclusion, 
that it was impossible to distinjruish between wounds occasioned 
by the fire of an enemy and injuries voluntarily inflicted, and con- 
sequently they reported that there was no satisfactory evidence 
of any of the soldiers under examination having mutilated them- 
selves. 

During the year 1833, 176 soldiers in the French army were 
convicted of the crime of voluntarily mutilating themselves, being 
relatively as 1 to 39 of all the other convictions, and actually as 1 
in 2262 of the strength of the army. 

Soldiers commonly maim themselves to obtain their discharge, 



WOUNDS. 119 

and sometimes even to become convicts, as was the case in New 
South Wales a few years ago. The men were ordered to he kept 
in the regiment to which they belonged, and to perform the duties 
of scavengers. "The coninjanding otficer lately complained that 
he had six or seven of these maimed njen, who were a dead weight 
and a disgrace; but the example is so important, that the com- 
mander-in-chief has directed the commanding officer to keep them 
as long as they live, as a warning to others to avoid the sanie fate." 
(Evidence of ISir Henry Hardinge before the Commissioners 
on Military Punishments.) 

When regiments are kept for a long time in a station which the 
soldiers do not like, they sometimes mutilate themselves. During 
the last century, maiming became so prevalent among the troops 
stationed in Minorca, as to lead to an investigation by parlianient 
into t!ie circumstances to which it was attributable. Major-General 
Anstruther, who was then lieutenant-governor, in his examination 
before the lords, being desired to acquaint the house with some 
examples of the despair in the soldiers, answered, "There have 
been a good many instances of soldiers upon that island shooting 
off their hands, and some of them shooting off their feet, and some 
of them shooting themselves through the head, of those who have 
been longest there, by which your lordships will observe they will 
incapacitate themselves from earning their bread at home rather 
than continue there." The 9th regiment served from 1719 to 1746, 
a period of twenty-seven years, at Minorca. 

6. Woiinds. In the warrant of 1829, disabilities arising from 
wounds received in action, and which disqualify soldiers for mili- 
tary duty, have been arranged under four classes or degrees, each 
class conferrinof a particular rate of pension ; but in the warrant of 
1831^ they are classed under three heads. I am not aware, how- 
ever, that medical officers are called upon to orjve an opinion in 
regard to the class to which a man's disability entitles him to 
belong, their province being confined to a decision upon the dis- 
abling effect, and the cause of an infirmity. Every man's state- 
ment in regard to his disabilities and coiisequent claims upon the 
service demands a candid unbiassed investigation; but the opinion 
given upon the disabling effects of an injury must be founded on a 
knowledge of the anatomy and functions of the organs implicated. 

A medical officer will require to exercise much discretion in re- 
gard to the alleged cause of wounds, as also in regard to the dis- 
abliuir effects of injuries. Dr. Henncn informs us that the cicatrices 
of common ulcers have been shown as gunshot wounds, and he 
states that he once saw the mark of a square blister pointed out as 
the effect of contusion from a ball. I was once requested to visit 
an officer for the purpose of dressing a gunshot wound of the left 
arm, which lie alleged had been received during a conflict with the 
enemy. He commanded a small detachment a i^w miles in ad- 
vance of the post where I was stationed, and left his party in order 
that, as he stated, I might examine and dress his wound. Upon 



120 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

inspectinor the site of the alleged injury, no wound could be dis- 
covered except an abrasion of the cuticle, about the size of a large 
pea, which appeared to have been done with a penknife. Care had 
been taken to destroy the sleeve of the jacket, so that it was im- 
possible to obtain any information respectins: the cause of the 
alleged wound by examining the clothes. I recommended the 
officer to return forthwith to the station he commanded, and he 
followed my advice. 

Soldiers sometimes calculate largely upon the credulity of medi- 
cal officers, as will appear by the following instance. 

W. Dempsy was approved by Dr. John Brown, at the Dublin 
depot, for the 83d regiment, in the month of February 1813, and 
transferred in the usual way to Dunbury barracks, the quarters of 
the depot of the regiment. He was there "surgically rejected," in 
consequence, as staled, of having a ^^plate insertefr^ in his skull. 
According to Dempsy's own account of himself, he had served in 
the Phoenix frigate, and was shipwrecked in fier, when he. met 
with an accident by which his skull was fractured ; a circumstance 
that rendered the insertion of a plate necessary. In consequence 
of this fictitious disability he was discharged, and immediately after 
a letter was addressed to the commander of the forces in Ireland by 
the adjutant-general, signifying his royal highness' "command, that 
the expenses incurred by the enlistment of William Dempsy must 
be paid by Dr. Brown, who does not appear to have used due atten- 
tion in the examination of this man;" observing at the same time, 
that Surgeon Brown's experience might have taught him, that in 
general no dependence is to be placed on the assertion of those who 
offer themselves as recruits in the Dublin district; and that, in 
order to guard against the like imposition being again practised, 
and to avert the consequence resulting from it, he will no doubt 
see the necessity of trusting only to his own judgment, and of not 
depending upon what any recruit may himself advance. The 
same man appeared at the depot, under the name of C. Dempsy, as 
a recruit for the 1 2th regiment, on the 18th May 1813; he was 
recognised by Dr. Brown, who, after examining him carefully, was 
of opinion that his skull had never been fractured. Fie was next 
examined by the army medical board, whose certiticate, attested by 
the signatures of Drs. Hcirvey and Renny, stated, that " Dempsy is 
fit for service, as every part of the skull appears at present to be 
perfectly firm and sound." He was transferred to the army depot 
in the Isle of Wight. 

Class VIII. Diseases and Lesions of the Lymphatic System, 
and of the Constitution generally. 

1. Scrofula. Mefi who are labouring under scrofulous affec- 
tions are occasionally brought forvvard by rea:imental medical 
officers for the purpose of beins: discharcred. The more common 
symptoms of this disease arc great enlargement of the lymphatic 



t 



CACHEXY. 121 

glands, especially of the neck, which is sometimes accompanied by 
a tuberculous disorganisation with, or without, an ulceration of the 
parts affected, sinous ulcers, swelled joints, ifec. As the general 
health of persons who suffer under the cxternnl symptoms of scro- 
fula is seldom good, they rarely become efficient soldiers. Well- 
marked scrofula, when the symptoiTjs disable a man for duty, is an 
adequate cause for discharging him from the service, even although 
the disease is not of long standing. 

2. Cachea:^. Under this head a considerable number of men are 
discharged from the service. The origin of the alleged inefficiency 
is usually attributed to organic disease, sometimes indicated by 
emaciation, and other symptoms of marasmus. The existence of 
visceral disease may be ascertained, in so far as pathological facts 
can be appreciated, by means of percussion, auscultation, pressure, 
the aspect of the person under examination, and by the history and 
duration of the disease. The term cachexy comprehends a great 
variety of disabilities, including those occasioned by disease con- 
tracted in tropical clitnates, together with the disabilities which 
result from syphilis, or the remedial means adopted for its cure, and 
that numerous class of physical and moral infirmities which accom- 
pany an abuse of ardent spirits. The diseases of tropical climates 
frequently occasion extensive organic derangement, which injures 
the functions of the viscera, and often permanently impair the 
health and efficiency of soldiers who are its victims, and many a 
soldier who would enjoy good health and be efficient in every re- 
spect, destroys his constitution by habits of intemperance, and dis- 
qualifies himself for the army. A moral disease of so intractable a 
nature as drunkenness, and one so intimately connected with phy- 
sical disability, frequently incapacitates a man for military duties, 
and therefore is too often an adequate cause of discharge from the 
army. This observation must, however, be limited to extreme 
cases, and particularly to men who are frequently in hospital on 
account of the consequences of habits of intemperance, and who 
are found, after long trial, to be incorrigible drunkards. 

By the abolition of an indiscriminate issue of spirit-rations to 
soldiers on board ship and in foreign stations, one important ex- 
citement to habitual intemperance among them has been removed. 
So long as a quantity of spirits (amounting in India to the twentieth 
of a gallon) formed part of the regular diet, or daily ration of a sol- 
dier, which he was obliged to swallow or throw away, what rational 
hope could be entertained that the exertions of commanding officers, 
however well directed, would have much influence in preventing 
habits of inebriety among the men under his command more 
especially in countries where spirits were cheap, and easily pro- 
cured by soldiers? The daily use of spirits is not necessary for 
the efficiency or health of troops in any climate, and the abuse of 
spirituous liquors is a fertile source of inefficiency, disabilities, dis- 
ease, and crimes, both moral and military. To swallow nearly 
half a pint of spirits daily was, until the abolition of spirit-rations, 



122 



:rs. 



a part of the duty o{ ta soldier; and that this duty might be effectu- 
ally executed, it was the usage of the service in many stations to 
have it performed under the immediate superintendence of a com- 
missioned officer, who certified to his commanding oflicer that he 
had actually seen each man drink his drams. Perhaps a more 
successful plan of converting temperate men into drunkards could 
not have beeii invented. It would be difficult to speak too highly 
of the discrimination of Sir Henry Hardinge, in perceiving and 
appreciating the evils of the practice, and of his firmness and judg- 
ment in remedying the abuse. 

For temporary purposes, such as to evade a duty, and to obtain 
sick leave from a foreign station, cachexia or general bad health is 
sometimes simulated by swallowing nauseating medicines, such as 
a solution of tartar emetic, tfec. A medical officer informed me 
that he succeeded in feigning sickness so as to obtain leave of 
absence from the West Indies, by indulging freely in wine, and 
depriving himself of sleep for two or three nights immediately be- 
fore the day he was to be examined by a medical board; his dis- 
ordered attire, unshaven chin, sunken'eye, depressed lower jaw, 
pale and contracted countenance, tight clothing, aided by a pair 
of excessively large boots, which he borrowed from a friend, so 
changed his usual appearance, that he was scarcely recognisable 
by his acquaintance. The board decided at once that he should 
have leave to proceed to England. 

3. Dropsies. The number of men discharged from the service 
under this head is considerable, being, according to the circular 
letter of 22d January 1830, rather more than 50 annually. As the 
diseases of which dropsy is frequently only a symptom are rarely 
long protracted, it becomes the duty of a medicak>officer to deliberate 
whether a man thus aflfected should not be accommodated in hos- 
pital until the issue of his case be determined. 

4. Worn out. On the 19th August. 1823, a warrant was issued 
from the war office, which authorised the admission of soldiers on 
the pension list, who had been dischaged and had claims to the 
out-pension arising from service alone, without personally appear- 
ing before the commissioners of Chelsea Hospital, and as it does 
not appear to have been necessary to assign a specific disability for 
a man's unfitness for further service in his discharge, the indefinite 
term "worn out" was very generally adopted. When the term in 
question was applied to men who had served above 14 or 21 years 
in the infantry, or above 17 and 24 in the cavalry, the periods 
when pensions might be granted, its meaning was pretty well 
understood; but when it was employed in the case of men who 
were discharged after very short service, and in consequence of 
being disabled by disease, it conveyed no specific information. The 
warrant of 18'^3, (which was cancelled by the warrant of the 14th 
November 1829,) excited a very general belief in the army that a 
soldier had a riglit to claim to be discharged, and to receive a pen- 
sion after serving a certain number of years, even although he had 



i 



PALSY. 123 

enlisted for unlimited service, or, in other words, engaged to serve 
until he was discharged. By the warrant of 1829, the disease or 
cause of incapacity of every man who is proposed to be discharged 
on account of unfitness for service is directed to be specifically 
stated by a medical officer, for the purpose of being transmitted to 
the general commandinof in chief, without whose authority no man 
is to be discharged. When a man wishes to leave the army, he 
endeavours to ej^iablish a claim for his discharge from the service, 
by alleging that he suffers under some disabling infirmity; and if a 
soldier lias served 21 years in the infantry,^ or 24 years in the 
cavalry, medical officers are commonly very much disposed to give 
ample credit to his statement. The ratio of men who are serving^ 
in the infantry of the line above 21 years service is very low, being 
about from two to three per cent. This circumstance may depend 
upon two causes, first, the men may be disabled or "worn out" by 
that period of service, or, secondly, because, by the pensioning 
regulations, every man enlisted before the 14th of February 1833, 
who is discharged on account of the public service, in other words, 
in consequence of unfitness for service^ after having served the 
respeclive periods of 21 and 24 years, is entitled to a pension for 
life. When an old soldier wishes to leave the service, he is not in 
general long in attaining his object. The Romans appear to have 
been very careful that none but really inefficient soldiers should be 
discharged as disabled for military service. Bruce, in his Institutes 
of Military Law, states, "That dismission on account of age, in- 
firmity, <fcc. was not lightly, nor of course granted by the Roman 
generals. For before it could be competent, there behooved to pro- 
ceed a solemn declaration of physicians that the person was utterly 
untit for further service. And if thereafter it was discovered that 
the dismission was obreptitiously procured, the impetrant was or- 
dained to be heavily fined." 

Class IX. Diseases and Lesions of the Nervous Systetn. 

1. Palsy ^ partial or general. Palsy is usually indicated by a 
diminution or abolition of the muscular power, with a partial or 
total loss of sensation in the part aflfected. When a soldier has 
been under treatment on account of this disease in an extremity 
for a few months without success, little Iiope can be entertained 
that he will ever become fit for military duty, and. consequently, 
he may be recommended to be discharged. The first and principal 
object is to ascertain whether the disease exists, for when no doubt 
is entertained of the existence of palsy, the man may be considered 
unfit for the army. 

Palsy is easily and frequently simulated, and, in many instances, 
considerable diflficulty exists in determining whether an alleged dis- 
ability of this kind is real or feigned. Hemiplegia and paraplegia 
are both occasionally simulated; but loss of the power of an arm is 
that variety of palsy which is most frequently feigned. In feigned 



124 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

palsy, as in the sirniilatioii of almost all other disabilities, impostors 
an3 apt to overact their parts, and to enumerate incompatible symp- 
toms. 

I recollect examininsc a ni^'^n vvho belonged to the regiment 

of light dragoons, who was proposed to be dischargt^d in conse- 
quence of hemiplegia of the right side. He stated, that imme- 
diately after a foil from his horse, he had lost the power of the right 
arm and leg. His health was obviously good, his limbs muscular 
and firm; the right arm hung like a pendulum by his side, but 
when 1 flexed the elbow joint, he forgot to lot the fore-arm fall to 
its original position; indeed, he thought it necessary to resist for a 
tiuH^ a sligfit attempt to sfrai^rhten it. The appearance of the man 
rendered the existence of the alleged disease doubtful, and the in- 
compatible symptom of contracting the arm satisfied me that it was 
simulated. The man in question committed a mistake which is 
very frequently made by the simulators of palsy; they are not com- 
monly aware that paralytic limbs are very pliant, and occasionally 
offer some resistance when any attempt is made to bend them. A 
healthy arm trembles when a heavy weight is appended to it a 
circumstance which does not take place when it is paralytic. 

Paraplegia is sometimes simulated, and the most uncomfortable 
condition endured with martyr-like perseverance. 

A man belonging to the Cavan militia alleged that he had lost 
the power of his inferior extremities, was recommended to be dis- 
charged on account of palsy, by Dr. Harvey, physician to the 
General Hospital, Dublin. Having received his discharge and the 
balance of his pay, he hired a car and was driven in it to the 
PhcEuix Park, where the Cavan nuliria was at exercise. Upon 
approaching the corps he threw away a pair of crutches which he 
had long used, and bounded like a deer for some time in front of 
the line, and af^er slapping his breech, scampered off as fast as he 
could. The object of^ some impostors appears to be incomplete, 
until they have efiectually demonstrated to their comrades that 
their alleged disabilities were simulated. 

A man belonging to the lOlh regiment, while it was serving in 
the Mediterranean, asserted that he had lost the power of his in- 
ferior extremities, and underwent hospital discipline for two years, 
at the end of which period the existence of any real disability was 
still doubted. As a final trial, the medical officer directed him to 
be confined in a room, containing a shelf amply stored with pro- 
visions, which he could easily reach by standing on his legs, but 
not otherwise. The food remained untouched at the end of forty- 
eight hours, and, as it was not deemed advisable to prolong the 
experiment, he was included in the list of invalids, and carried on 
board a transport bound for England. Before the ship sailed, an 
alarm was given about midnight that she was on fire; every one 
on board hurried into a boat alongside, and after reaching the quay 



PALSY. ^HBHHBP 125 

the passengers were mustered, when it was found that the alleged 
paralytic cripple had not only succeeded in saving: himself, but he 
had broucfht his trunk also on shore with hin). He was sent back 
to the ranks. 

I am indebted to a very talented and experienced medical officer, 
Mr. Gulliver, assistant-surgeon, Royal Horse -Guards, for the fol- 
lowing case of simulated paraplegia. 

Private James Bell, 37th regiment, while the corps was stationed 
in Jamaica, alleged that he had received an injury on the loins, 
which was followed by total loss of power of the lower extremities. 
He was sent home, and admitted into Foft Pitt hospital, where it 
was soon presumed that the disability was feigned. Bell was a 
robust, healthy man; he moved from ])lace to place by means of 
crutches, at the same time dragging his legs on the ground, and 
when they were touched, he bellowed and roared with all the force 
he was able. When the crutches were taken from him, lie re- 
mained with a kind of dogged stupidity in one place, deploring his 
condition, and shedding abundance of tears. Mr. Gulliver, who 
had the charge of Bell, had occasion to send for his patient to the 
ward he was in, when the alleged paralytic cripple was brought to 
him between two orderlies, round whose necks he s.upported him- 
self, with his thighs drawn up to the abdomen, and his heels nearly 
touching^ his buttocks. This circumstance was qujte satisfactory 
in proving that he had not lost the motive power of the muscles of 
the inferior extremities; but he would not give in, and he was 
forwarded, in the usual way, to Chelsea to be discharged. Bell 
had been in the service for about nine years, a space of time which 
he had spent chiefly in differenx hospitals. 

When a malingerer possesses adequate fortitiide to endure the 
uneasiness occasioned by the remedial means directed by a medical 
officer, together with the irksomeness of hospital discipline for a 
considerable time, he will in general succeed in obtaining the com- 
mon object of simulators a discharge from the service. In niany 
instances it becomes a trial of patience between the surgeon, the 
commanding officer of a regiment, and the simulator; so that de- 
tection, or what may be called conviction, frequently fails in making 
an impostor return to his duty. The success of some impostors is 
so surprising as almost to exceed belii'f ; for example, the following 
case, which rests on the most undoubted testimony. 

Private Reilly, belonging to regiment, having been de- 
tached from the corps while it was employed in the Deccan (1819), 
complained that he had lost the power of his left side, which was 
alleged to have been occasioned by wet and cold, to which he had 
been exposed during the monsoon winds. He was accommodated 
with a dooly, a species of palanquin, and for eight months he was 
carried along with the troops in the field, there being no good 
opportunity all that time of sending him to the rear. At the con- 
8 c 9 mar 



126 MARSHALL ON THE EXLlSTINCIj ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

elusion of the war he joined the head-quarters of the corps to 
which he belonged, and came under the care of the medical ollicers 
belongins: to it, who knew Reilly. After a careful examination by 
the surofeon and assistant surireon, they concluded that his alleged 
disability was simulated. He was tlien infornic-d of the opinion 
entertained of his case, and also that he would be allowed till 
twelve o'clock on the following day to deliberate whether he would 
then return to his duty or be broucrht before a court-martial. He 
did not seem to decide until very near to the hour named, when 
he left the hospital and proceeded to the barracks. He continued 
at his duty till the drafting of the men in 1822, when the corps 
returned to Europe, and he was transferred to another regiment. 
Reilly must have had a much higher opinion of the liberality and 
kindness of tlie medical officer who accommodated him with a 
dooly for so long a period than of his professional skill and dis- 
crimination. 

Partial palsy, such as the loss of the power of an arm, is much 
more frequently feigned than either hemiplegia or paraplegia. 

A private belonging to the 44th regiment alleged that he had 
fallen asleep in the open air, and that when he awoke he had lost 
the power of the right arm. Mr. Jones, assistant inspector of hos- 
pitals, who was then surgeon to the corps, was satisfied that the 
disability was feigned, and reported the circumstance to the com- 
manding officer. The man was tried by a court-martial, and sen- 
tenced to receive 300 lashes, but the sentence was not carried into 
effect. Shortly after the trial, he was transferred to the general 
hospital, Dublin, and placed under the care of the late Dr. Cheyne, 
who states in his letter to Dr. Renny, with reference to this case, 
"That, after due consideration, I concurred in the opinion of the 
surgeon, that this man was an impostor, and prevented him from 
being discharged. I tried various remedies, and among the rest, 
sharp shocks of electricity, which he bore with great resolution. 
At last, finding that he made no impression upon me, and that 
my report would be an unfavourable one, he gave in. We came 
to this compromise; he agreed to return to his duty, and I under- 
took to use my influence in preserving him from punishment." 
This man rejoined the regiment, and made several other unsuc- 
cessful attempts to feign disabilities, probably with the view of 
avoiding embarkation for India. Determined, however, to effectu- 
ally disqualify himself for the service, he placed his right hand 
before the wheel of a baggage wagon, by which means some of the 
bones were fractured. He was again foiled; he accompanied his 
regiment to India, and the functions of the hand became so fai 
restored as to enable him to perform the usual duties of a soldier. 

The courage and coolness with which some impostors resolv< 
to brave pain is very remarkable. A private belonging to 
regiment complained that he had lost the power of his right arnri| 
but, from the absence of any physical evidence of disease, tl^d 



I 



PALSY. V^7, 

medical officer considered him a malingerer, and tried various means 
to induce him to return to his duty, but without success. With the 
view of intimidating him, a proposal was made to amputate the 
arm, and, in prosecution of this object, an unusual des^ree of so- 
lemnity was observed on the occasion. All the surgical instruments 
which could be collected were exhibited; but, nothing daunted, he 
allowed himself to be conducted to the chair preparatory to the 
operation. The tourniquet was put on, and the amputating knife 
placed under his arm ready to make an incision. He sat unmoved; 
the surgeon was puzzled, and made the best excuse he could for 
postponing the operation. Being, however, still impressed WMth the 
opinion that the arm was not disabled, he resolved to attempt an- 
other means of conviction. He recommended change of air for 
some of his patients, and among others the case of alleged palsy. 
To reach the place where the surgeon professed he intended to 
convey the sick, it was necessary to cross a river in a boat. The 
party embarked, accompanied by the surgeon, who, by a precon- 
certed signal, directed the boatman to throw the man in question 
(who he knew was a good swimmer) into the river. After a little 
time he seemed to be much exhausted from the exertions necessary 
to keep himself afloat by means of his left arm only. The surgeon 
became alarmed, and had resolved to take his patient on board, 
when he uttered an oath, and struck out vigorously with both 
arms. The evidence was conclusive. 

Experience teaches us that moral means are, in general, the most 
effectual in moving simulators of disabihties to return to their duty. 
When a schemer has been deprived of hope, and has a safe retreat 
left open to him, he is prepared to report favourably of the influence 
of remedial measures. During the temporary absence of the sur- 
geon of regiment, a number of men were admitted into hos- 
pital on account of alleged disabilities, mostly of a character calcu- 
lated to disqualify them for the service. In a few days the surgeon 
made up his mind in regard to the case of each of the men. He 
then called them together, and observed, that he was well aware of 
their motives for being admitted into hospital, and concluded by 
stating to all and each of them as follows: "The state of your 
health does not require the use of medicines, and none shall be ex- 
pended upon you. Rest assured, that so long as I belong to this 
regiment, not one of you shall be discharged, unless I think he is 
really disabled." They knew he would keep his word ; and, in 
the course of a short period, they one by one all reported them- 
selves tit for duty. 

Palsy is occasionally pretended by out-pensioners, who wish to. 
obtain a higher pension than that which they receive. Applications 
for an increased pension will not be attended to, without a report 
by a medical officer respecting the alleged disability; and conse- 
quently the pensioners usually apply to a staff" surgeon for that pur- 
pose. An applicant of this kind presented himself to me while I 
was employed in Dublin, who stated that be had palsy of the right 



128 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

leg. I desired him to stand upon his left, and to push forward his 
right leg; a measure he asserted was beyond his power. He was 
next desired to stand upon his right leg, and to push forward his 
left, and in an instant his leg was projected to its full extent. This 
circumstance satisfied me that he was feigning a disability. He 
completely forgot that the force employed in the experiment was 
chiefly exerted by the quiescent extremity. 

In cases of feigned disabilities of a chronic character, as palsy, 
contractions, &,c., medical measures should rarely or never be em- 
ployed. By treating a simulator of this class of disabilities actively, 
we are apt to impress him with the opinion that he has succeeded 
ill masking his plan in fact, that a medical officer believes his in- 
firmities are real and not feigned. Influenced by this opinion, he 
presumes that nothing but patience and fortitude are required to 
bring his imposture to a favourable issue. In proportion as he 
thinks he has borne much, he presumes he has the less to endure. 

2. Epilepsy. Under the head of "epilepsy and palsy," about 
70 or 80 men are discharged annually from the army. (Circular, 
22d January, 1830). The consideration of this disability is ob- 
viously therefore of some importance. Epilepsy appears under very 
different degrees of severity; in some cases a paroxysm consists of 
little more than an uneasy feeling in the head, which may not last 
above two or three seconds or minutes; the common Jength of a 
paroxysm is, however, about from ten to fifteen minutes. The fre- 
quent or even an occasional paroxysm of epilepsy is commonly 
considered an adequate cause for recommending a man to be dis- 
charged. It is an important point, therefore, to verify a liability to 
the disease, more especially jis attempts are occasionally made to 
simulate it. 

The leading indication of a well defined or well marked parox- 
ysm of epilepsy is loss of sense, which is commonly accompanied 
with involuntary contraction of the muscles of the whole body. 
The symptoms come on suddenly, and the person affected falls to 
the ground, the face becomes swelled, and the countenance livid, 
general convulsions supervene, the eyes and muscles of the face 
are greatly distorted, and the head is commonly bent backwards. 
During a paroxysm an epileptic grinds his teeth, and foam gathers 
round his mouth, the thumbs are grasped in the hands, and fre- 
quently the contents of the bladder and rectum are discharged. 
The pulse is generally not very quick, and the skin is cooler than 
might be expected from the muscular agitation. 

Epilepsy is not unfrequently simulated, and much care and cau- 
tion is required to distinguish a paroxysm of the disease from a 
mere imitation of it. In regard to suspected epileptics, and inderd 
with respect to every doubtful case of disability, the obvious duty 
of a medical officer is to free himself to the utmost of his power 
from every bias, whether it be in favour of or against the statements 
of an individual. He should simply endeavour to discover the 
truth, without being afraid to find a man guilty, or without enter- 



EPILEPSY. 



129 



taininor a wish that the person under examination may be detected 
as an impostor. 

In a feigned paroxysm of epilepsy, the muscular contortions of 
different parts of the body do not commonly occur simultaneously. 
Thus the superior extremities may be in motion, while the inferior 
are at rest. When the hands are forced open, they are quickly 
clenched again; whereas, in the real disease, they commonly re- 
main extended, and as inflexible as a piece of wood. If an impos- 
tor be narrowly watched, he will be found to open his eyes occa- 
sionally, for the purpose of observing what effect his acting produces 
upon spectators. An impostor can easily counterfeit a number of 
phenomena which may, by inexperienced persons, be considered 
indicative of epilepsy such as violent muscular motions; rolling 
of the eyes; sighing; suppressed cries; grinding of the teeth; foam 
at the mouth; discharge from the bladder, (fee. (fee. but he is not 
able to distort the muscles of the face like a person suffering under 
epilepsy, to render the iris insensible to light, or to evince a total 
abolition of sense. 

The impostor commonly selects a place where he is likely to 
play off his tricks to the greatest advantage, and with the least in- 
convenience to himself. He is also not inattentive as to the time 
when a fit may be enacted with due effect, which is in general about 
the period when a medical officer is likely to be in the way to see 
him. 

Malingerers are commonly much more successful in counterfeit- 
ing the accession and violent symptoms of a paroxysm than the 
stage of recovery. They seem often to have carefully studied the 
phenomena of an early period of a paroxysm, while the symptoms 
which accompany a decline of the fit seems to have escaped atten- 
tion. The symptoms of epilepsy disappear gradually, and are fol- 
lowed by sleep; but when the phenomena are counterfeited, they 
commonly terminate abruptly, and the sleeping stage is omitted. 

An insensibility to external agents is, however, the most decided 
proof that can be obtained in regard to the existem^e of epilepsy, 
for, during a paroxysm, sensation is totally suspended ; hence, if 
any evidence of sense be excited by stimulants, it may generally 
be inferred that the symptoms are counterfeited. F'or the purpose of 
probation, a variety of stimuli have been applied to different senses, 
of which a few may be mentioned: 

Sm.elling. Snuff blown tip the nostrils hartshorn applied to 
the nose tickling the nose with a straw. 

Tasting. Common salt, in the quantity of a table-spoonful, has 
obtained great celebrity as a means of cuttinof short a fit of epilepsy, 
and there can be no doubt that it has jrained this character in con- 
sequence of its havinofbeen exhibited to a person who was counter- 
feitino; epilepsy. Salt possesses ppculiar advnuiages for the purpose 
intended: it is safe, easily obtained, and tolerably effectual. When 
a spoonful of salt is introduced into the mouth, and insinuated 



130 MARSHALL ON THE ENLtSTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

between the lips and teeth of an impostor, he soon shows that he 
possesses the sense of taste, and endeavours to spit it out. 

Hearing and feeling. A proposal to apply the actual cautery 
(a hot iron) to the skin, is frequently followed by a rapid recovery, 
when a paroxysm is counterfeited. A still more effectual means 
may be resorted to, when necessary, by proposing to pour boiling 
water from a kettle on a leg, but instead of hot to employ cold 
water. 

During an alleged paroxysm of epilepsy, where the symptoms 
were supposed to be counterfeited, Mr. R. exhibited seven or eight 
drops of croton-oil, through an opening left by the loss of two teeth, 
and m a kw minutes the man started on his feet and ran to the 
water-closet. Dr. Cheyne informs us that he successfully employed 
the method of introducing into the eye a portion of spirits. 

Medical officers cannot be too careful to avoid becoming the 
dupes of simulators. There is, I believe, much reason for assum- 
ing that many a soldier has been discharged and pensioned in con- 
sequence of feigning convulsions, which medical officers denomi- 
nated epilei)sy. 

I was once instructed by the deputy adjutant-sfeneral of the 
forces in Ireland to inspect a pensioner who had been discharged 
on account of alleged epilepsy, and to grant him a certificate in 
regard to his infirmity. The man staled that he had a paroxysm 
of the disease every day about twelve o'clock. I observed to him, 
that, unless I was present during a tit, 1 could not certify that ho 
suffered under epilepsy; and as it was then only eleven o'clock, 
and being obliged to leave the depot, 1 should not have it in my 
power to see the fit come on that day. In a few minutes he began 
to tremble, and his whole body became more or less agitated ; at 
length he sunk to the ground, and the contortions and contractions 
of the limbs became very violent. I soon perceived that the parox- 
ysm of epilepsy which he was zealously enacting was voluntary, 
and after allowing him to exhaust himself, I told him to get upon 
his feet, as I was quite satisfied in regard to the nature of his 
alleged disability. The contractions and agitation of the limbs soon 
subsided, and he rose from the floor in a {^.vj minutes, apparently 
well satisfied with his imitation of a paroxysm of epilepsy. In 
1828, this man had drawn a pension for fifteen years. 

Dr. Fallot relates an account of a Swiss soldier who feigned St. 
Vitus's dance. The symptoms were a little exaggerated, but in 
general they were exceedingly well imitated. '^Fhe mnn appeared 
to suffer much by the complaint, and anxiously begged for medi- 
cines to relieve hitn. He was about to he discharged, but Dr. Fal- 
lot's suspicions being excited, the man was then requested to give a 
minute account of his feelino:s, which, aided by the pronjptings of 
the doctor, were obviously very absurd. The fraud was by this 
means discovered. Although this mnn was quite an adept in imi- 
tating the symptoms of the disease, fie could not give any thing 



I 



MENTAL ALIENATION. 131 



like a satisfactory history of the pro^fress of the affection. Dr. Fallot 
afterwards discovered that the impostor had been tutored in the art 
of imitatitjof St. Yitns's dance by a relation who was a medical prac- 
titioner. The man deserted from the hospital when he found that 
his imposture was discovered. 

There can be little doubt that soldiers occasionally qualify them- 
selves for carryinsf on a scheme of imposition by the perusal of 
medical books. Patients in general hospitals commonly evince an 
excessive anxiety to study case books, and avail themselves of every 
opportunity tiiat offers to acquire information by that means. 

3. Mental alienation weakness of intellect. Soldiers who 
have been liable to one or more attacks of insanity are, I believe, 
in a:eneral considered unfit for the army, and recommended by the 
medical autliorities to be discharged. During the existence of a 
state of mental derangement soldiers have, for a number of years, 
been accommodated in a military asylum or hospital, at Fort 
Clarence, Rochester, which is specially appropriated to such pa- 
tients. The character or symptoms of insanity are in general so 
well marked, as to be easily recocrnised by attentive and experienced 
medical officers, especially by those who have had an opportunity 
of observing the phenomena of mental alienation. Insanity has been 
frequently feigned by soldiers who wished to obtain their discharge, 
and no doubt some have gained their object. But it is also true, 
and the fact is a melancholy one, that real insanity has been mis- 
taken for feigned, and the patients treated and punished as impos- 
tors Facts of this kind ought to lead medical officers to study with 
great care the indications of insanity, a branch of information which 
can only be thoroughly obtained in receptacles for the insane, and, 
whenever there is a shadow of doubt, to proceed with the utmost 
caution. Mucli knowledgfe of importance in regard to insanity 
may, however, be obtained from books, more especially from those 
works which treat specifically upon mental diseases, and to these 
the reader is referred. I shall content myself with submitting a few 
interesting cases, for the purpose of showing the importance of the 
study of mental diseases in the army, and the difficulty whicli 
sometimes exists in discriminating between real and fictitious dis- 
ease, or of recognising mental alienation. It is not so much be- 
cause fictitious madness has been treated as real, but because real 
madness has been treated as fictitious, that I urge the necessity of 
medical officers devoting some attention to the study of this class 
ot diseases. 

Private Charles Louis, regiment, complained, during the 

month of December, 1826, of pain in the loins, which was stated to 
be the result of a sprain received in the precedino- July, but which 
he had not previously mentioned. He went on furlough soon after 
and did not return until the 24ih February 1827, when he con- 
tinued to state that he was unable for duty. He was then admitted 
into hospital ; his appetite was good, the other functions of the body 



132 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

were apparently healthy, and no symptom of disease could be de- 
tected. He was in general remarkably taciturn. He was dischar^red 
from hospital, hut would do no duty. He was tried by a regimental 
court-martial for disobedience of orders, and sentenced to undergo 
corporal punishment, and on the 1.5ih March he received 175 lashes 
without making the slightest complaint. He continued to refuse 
doing duty, and was a second lime tried by a court-martial, and 
sentenced to be confined for one month in a solitary cell, but when 
released from confinement he still refused to do duty. He was 
transferred to the general hospital, in Dublin, on the 30th ot May, 
where he remained under the care of Dr. Cheyne until the 12th 
July, when he rejoined the regiment to which he belonged. Dur- 
ing the time he was in Dublin, the greatest care was taken to in- 
vestigate his case by Dr. Cheyne and other n}edical officers, but no 
satisfactory evidence of disease, either physical or mental, was 
observed. Shortly after Louis joined the regiment, symptoms of 
alienation of mind appeared, which were for some time supposed 
to be feigned, but, after close observation for a period of several 
months, the surgeon was satisfied that his mind was unsound. In 
July, 1827, he was again admitted into the general hospital, Dub- 
lin, in consequence of decided mental alienation, and during the 
year 1828 was transferred to the military asylum at Fort Clarence, 
where he expired on the 26th August, 1838. 

It would be a difficult task to decide upon the time when Louis's 
mind became unsound. He had an ardent desire to obtain his dis- 
charge, but all his measures for this purpose failed. Was lie insane 
when he refused to do his duty in February, 1827, or should we 
consider the mental disorder a consequence of frustrated hope since 
that period? It is, I believe, admitted by competent medical autho- 
rities, that insanity may be a consequence of the despondency and 
anxiety which arise from ungratified desire. 

Other instances might be quoted where mental alienation was 
mistaken for feigned disease. From the report of a coroner's in- 
quest held on the body of Joseph Godfrey, it appears that he 
belonged to the 83d regiment, and served with that corps at the 
Cape of Good Hope eleven years. Durins: this period he evinced 
symptoms of derangement on five difl^erent occasions, was five 
times tried by a court-martial for pretending insanity with a view 
to his discharge, and was, on each occasion, sentenced to receive 
corporal punishment, which was uniformly inflicted. Maniacal 
paroxysms continued to recur after he was discharged, and during 
one of the accessions, he committed suicide by drinking a quantity 
of sulphuric -dc'id. (Times newspaper, 22d February, 1826.) 

The following is a case of a diflferent character. E. Pigott en- 
listed at Limerick, for the honourable East India Company's mili- 
tary service, in March 1828. He was transferred to Cork, where 
self made ulcers appeared on his legs; and when this scheme failed 
in procuring his discharge, he seemed to become an idiot. Towards 



til 



MENTAL ALIENATION. 



133 



the end of September he arrived at Chatham, when he had what 
was considered the aspect of "a genuine idiot." He was phiced 
nnder strict observation for four or five weeks, during which period 
he was never heard to utter a word distinctly; his looks were wild, 
his manners almost savage; he appeared to have lost all regard to 
decency, and to liave become completely helpless, for he required 
to be washed and dressed like a child. He refused to take food 
when offered to him, but if it was set beside him he devoured it 
clandestinely, and occasionally he would neglect it for a whole day. 
He was at first treated with great kindness, but, after some time, he 
became in some measure ferocious, which was evinced by attempt- 
ing to bite the orderlies, and by using missiles, so as that it was 
deemed necessary to confine him in a strait waistcoat. On tlie od 
November, he was examined by a board of medical officers, who 
stated, that, in their opinion, Pigott was '' a most determined ma- 
lingerer, and afl^'cts insanity. Having maturely considered the 
infamous moral character of this recruit, his perseverance in simu- 
lating various diseases, his utter worthlessness to the service, and, 
moreover, the great improbability of his re-enlistment," the board 
recommended him to be discharged from the East India Com- 
pany's service. So far as 1 know, no reason was assigned by the 
board for concluding that Pigott's re-enlistment was improbable. 

The decision of the Imard led to the usual steps being taken to 
obtain an official order from the Horse Guards for his being dis- 
charged, but by the time the discharge reached Chatham (7th No- 
vember) Pigott appeared to be totally incapable of comprehending 
what a discharge meant. The order for his being discharged was 
repeatedly read to him with great care and attention, and it was ex- 
plained to him that he was at liberty to leave the hospital for the 
purpose of returning to Ireland, but all these endeavours to make 
him comprehend how matters stood produced no evidence that he 
understood or paid any attention to what was said to him. 

On the 20th November, the late Dr. Davies, who was surgeon to 
the East India Company's depot, and had the care of Pigott, ad- 
dressed a letter to the commandant, recommending him to apply for 
permission to send Pigott to the military lunatic asylum at Fort 
Clarence. In this letter. Dr. Davies states that, "Notwithstanding 
the strong documents which have been received respecting this 
man from Ireland, and the opinion of the medical board as ex- 
pressed in their report, dated November 3d, having very attentively 
observed the case for a long period, I am far from being convinced 
that he is 'a decided malingerer.' On the contrary, I am inclined 
to believe that there has been throughout, and there certainly is now, 
a reality in the affliction." 

Several weeks elapsed without any appearance of improvement, 
and as he was a very troublesome patient, and sometimes outrage- 
ous, he was commonly confined either in a strait waistcoat or by 
straps to the bedstead. On the 12th January, 1829, he was trans- 
ferred to Fort Clarence. When he arrived at the asylum, he would 



131 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

neither stand nor speak ; he lay with his le<rs donbled np, and his 
knees nearly approachinor the chest, and when questions were pnt 
to hinj, he sometimes emitted a hollow g^roan. He was rapidly and 
forcibly conveyed, by a lon^^ subterraneous passa^je, to the extremity 
of the establishment, where he was exposed to a shower bath, well 
washed, and subsequently dressed in the hospital uniform. Owing 
to the gloomy condition and singular appearance of the asylum, and 
the unceremonious manner wnh which he was moved from one 
place to another, Pio^ott no doubt became greatly alarmed. He was 
placed in the whirling chair, which ultimately determined him to 
ffive in, for on corningf out of it, he stated that his disability was 
feigned, and subsequently detailed to Dr. Davies a course of the 
most persevering and determined fraud that had ever been prac- 
tised. He acknowledged that, roughly as he had been handled in 
the depot hospital, he never thought of flinching from his purpose 
until he was transferred to Fort Clarence. To transfer a feigned 
maniac to a lunatic asylum is a most effectual means of detecting 
imposture. On the 4th March, about one year from the time he 
enlisted, he was marched from Fort Clarence to the depot of the 
East India Company, perfectly sound in mind and body, and it was 
now determined that he should not be discharged. The same night 
he joined the depot, he deserted, and was secured next day, after a 
stout resistance, by a constable at Gravesend, who brought him batik 
to Chatham. Finally he embarked for Madras on the 7lh March, 
along with a detachment of recruits. 

It has been asserted, wiih what truth I do not know, that the 
long continued imitation of some maladies, such as insanity, has 
excited real disease. "II est aussi dangereux d'imiter la folic que 
de contrefaire I'epilepsie, toutes deux pouvant se developper reelle- 
nient." (Coc/te de V operation Medicate du recruitement, ^c, page 
306.) 

Weakness of intellect. In almost every regiment or corps there 
are a ^e\v men who are alleged to be defective in memory, percep- 
tion, and judgment, who never acquire, or seem never to acquire, 
a perfect knowled2:e of their duty, and who usually pay but little 
attention to the state of their dress and accoutrements. Men of this 
class are commonly harmless and unobtrusive; sometimes, how- 
ever, they are morose and irritable. There is perhaps no species 
of disability which requires to be appreciated with more care and 
circumspection than that of intellectual deficiency. Mental inca- 
pacity or inaptitude for acquirinof the manual and platoon exercise, 
is easily feigned, and very difficult of detection. 

A (e\v years ago, a smart-looking youna: man, of a respectable 

class of society, joined the regiment of dragoons as a recruit. 

He was excessively backward in acquiring a knowledge of the first 
principles of the duties of a dragoon. The greatest care was 
ineffectually bestowed upon him. On some occasions he appeared 
to show a certain degree of skill, in a particular branch of his 
exercise, while, at other times, he seemed to have forgotten every 



n 



MENTAL ALIENATION. 135 

*thin^ he had been taiio^ht. Tfie drill corporal, whose paticnco 
became exhausted, privately ofli^red him a sovereio^n, if he w ould 
desert, his character as a good drill being likely to be impM2:iied, in 
consequence of his want of success with the recruit, i'his otier, 
as might have been foreseen, neither induced him to disappear, nor 
to njake more progress. At the end of about nine or ten months, 
he got drunk, and was in consequence confined in the guard room 
for a few days. During his incarceration, a complete revolution 
took place in liis plans, for on his returning to drill, he not only 
evinced an aptitude to learn, but he showed that he had in a perfect 
manner acquired the art of performing every thing which the drill 
corporal had attempted to teach him. He afterwards confessed, 
that tfie incompetency of mind, with which he was long supposed 
to be affected, was simulated for the purpose of procuring his 
discharge. Confinement, the collapse that followed the paroxysm 
of intoxication, but chiefly despair of obtaining his liberty, deter- 
mined Iiim to give in. It is worthy of remark, that, in this 
instance, the simulation of weakness of intellect was not even 
siispected. 

It is very natural that re2:imental officers should wish to get 
inefficient soldiers discharged, whether the unfitness arises from 
physical, moral, or intellectual causes ; but the general interests of 
the service require, that no doubtful case of disability should be 
recommended to be discharged, more especially on account of 
alleged weakness of intellect. The degree of mental incapacity is 
very difficult to appreciate, for many individuals will evince no 
remarkable want of intellectual endowment in conversation, who 
cannot be taught a particular trade or profession. Some may 
obtain tolerable proficiency in one trade, while they show great 
want of aptitude in learning another. A man may be a good 
shoeu)aker, though no degree of labour will enable him to acquire 
the dexterity requisite for performing the usual military evolutions 
in a correct manner, or to become a cleanly and efficient soldier. 
When a man shows no decided want of general intellect, how is 
a medical officer to distinguish a defect of intellectual capacity from 
a w^ant of will? The evidenc;e of an adjutant or a drill-serjeant, 
that they have not been able to make the individual in question 
comprehend his duty, cannot invariably be admitted as conclusive 
proof of his incapacity. A few years since, a man enlisted in the 
regiment, who, although he had been at drill for an unu- 
sually long period, did not seem to know any thing of his duly. 
Every exertion was made by the adjutant and drill-serjeant to 
make him perform the manual and platoon exercise, but without 
success. This pretended idiot was eventually discovered to be a 
deserter, and a very clever fellow. I am disposed to think, that, 
unless ill well marked cases, where the mind is weak on all sub- 
jects, and where that weakness is expressed in the countenance, or 
readily discoverable during conversation, no man ought to be 



136 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

recommended for discharge on account of mental defects, becanse, 
if the disability is not obvious, he may enlist and bo approved for 
the service. 

Examples sometimes occur where it is difficult to determine 
whether disgraceful conduct depends on moral depravity, or mental 
incapacity. Occasionally, the disabling cause appears to be a 
compound of roguery and imbecility, as was perhaps the case in the 
following instance. 

R. G. West enlisted into the honourable East India Company's 
service, at Liverpool, in 18<i3, and, soon after enlistment, embarked 
for Bombay. The followiiiij year he was discharged and sent home, 
"on account of want of intellect." He subsequently enlisted in a 
regiment of the line, from which he was discharged in December, 
1827, for the same cause. In February, 1828, under the name of 
George Ryan, he again joined the depot at Chatham, as a recruit 
for the East India Company's service. The intellectual and moral 
character of this man have been very differently estimated ; some 
officers represented his mind to be " unsound," others reported that 
he was not "unsound of mind," but an artful, intriguing man ; one 
alleged that he was a '-gross impostor," and another described him 
to be, " without exception, the greatest blackguard, in point of 
general conduct and behaviour, in the kingdom." An application 
was made by the commandant of the company's depot for an 
authority to discharge him, but there being no security against his 
re-enlisting, he was retained in the service. 

West was sent to his duty; but before two or three weeks had 
elapsed, he sold his regimental clothing. He was in consequence 
tried by a court-martial, and sentenced to be confined in the Maid- 
stone jail, and employed at hard labour. Shortly after this period 
of confinement had expired, he embarked to join the corps to which 
he belonged the Madras European regiment. 

It may be questionable whether a number of the men in the army, 
whose conduct is excessively irregular, and who are sometimes 
individually charactised as being "more rogue than fool," are not 
sufferinof more or less under mental alienation, or intellectual imbe- 
cility ; for instance. 

In the year 1827, J. Leonard enlisted at Dublin for the S7fh 
regiment, and being brought before me, as district staff-surgeon, for 
examination, was approved. He had shown some unwillingness to 
comply with the routine of the inspection room, in consequence of 
which, I had noted on his attestation, as a warning to the surgeon, 
that Leonard was likely to prove a very reluctant soldier. He joined 
the regiment in England, and was forthwith examined by the 
medical officer of the corps, and finally approved. Shortly after he 
was sent to drill, when he stated, in the Irish language, that he did 
not comprehend the words of command, and that he neither under- 
stood nor could speak English. This statement was obviously 
untrue, because he had, both in Ireland and in England, spoken 



MENTAL ALIENATION. 137 

English as well as his comrades. He was confined for several days 
in a solitary cell, where he received no other diet bni bread and 
water. He still, however, pretended that he did not understand the 
English language, and he was transferred to the liospital for the 
purpose of being under the observation of the surgeon, as the 
adjutant could make nothing of him. On the fourth day after 
admission into hospital, he admitted that he understood the English 
language, and spoke it as lie had formerly done. He subsequently 
went to drill, and conducted himself like other soldiers. In 1831, 
when on board a transport bound to Mauritius, he pilfered some 
articles of dress belonging to a comrade, and was in consequence 
tried by a court-martial, convicted, and sentenced to receive corporal 
punishment. He received 150 lashes. He evinced at intervals 
great violence of temper, and occasionally refused to perform the 
duty assigned to him. In 1832, he was a second time sentenced 
to receive corporal punishment; and when brought to the halberts 
or triangles, he refused to be tied up, and resisted the drummers 
with all the strength he possessed. The punishment was even- 
tually inflicted. His temper continued to be violent ; and during 
the year 1833. suspicions were entertained that his mind was 
unsound. In 1834, he absented himself without leave from the 
regiment ; but returned within a few days in a state of great 
wretchedness. At this period he obviously laboured under mental 
alienation ; and in consequence of this disability, was sent to 
England, and became an inmate of Fort Clarence, where he 
remained until he was transferred to a lunatic asylum in Galway, 
in December, 1838. 

The plea of insanity is sometimes adduced by soldiers, for the 
purpose of mitigating or of escaping punishment; and medical 
officers require to be prej^ared to give their evidence in regard to 
the existence of the disability, as in the following instance : 

Private Ralstone, 69th regiment, was arraigned before a court- 
martial on the 9th November, 1818, upon three charges. It is 
sufficient for my purpose to copy the last: 

" 3d. For discharging his musket, loaded with a ball, at a Seapoy 
sentry, who was endeavouring to stop him (from deserting,) by 
order of Lieutenant Hall, and for attempting to reload it." 
Finding guilty sentence, solitary confinement for the space of 
five calendar months. This sentence was confirmed, but not 
approved. 

When the foregoing sentence was promulgated to the army by 
Lieutenant-General Hislop, he deemed it expedient to make the 
following observations : 

"The great disproportion between the crime and the punishment 
appears to have arisen from the plea of insanity ; but this plea has 
not been substantiated by evidence. The prisoner states, that he 
received a wound on the head. No evidence is called to speak to 
the effects which that had produced on his constitution. The 



138 MAIISFIALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

wound does not seem to have been examined by a surgeon in 
presence of the court, nor indeed shown to the court at all; and 
one question only is asked regardino^ jt, namely. Is it generally 
understood in the regiment that the prisoner was wounded in the 
hesidl Answer, Yes. '^ 

To throw some light upon the proceedings of the court. Sir 
Thomas Hislop directed a medical committee to report upon the 
state of private Ralstone, namely 

"To state whether he had been visited by insanity? Whether lie 
laboured under this heavy calamity at or about the period when he 
fired at Cuspali (the Seapoy sentry.) And, finally, whether any 
disease incapacitates him from continuing in his majesty's service? 

" The committee were unanimously of opinion, 

" l6'^. That the prisoner is at present in a state of perfect health. 

" 2d. That his mental organs (faculties ?) appear unimpaired. 

" 3d. That, so far as the committee can ascertain, he has never 
been visited by insanity. 

"4M. That, at or about the period when he fired at Cuspali 
Seapoy, it seems probable he was under the influence of liquor. 

" 5th and lastly. That the prisoner is not affected with any 
disease, mental or bodily, to incapacitate him for his majesty's 
service. 

"The plea of insanity set up by the prisoner, like every other 
ground of palliation or defence, sliould have been established by 
competent evidence, before it ought to have been admitted to 
influence the opinion of the court." 

The observations of Lieutenant-General Hislop upon Ralstone's 
court-martial are so just and so appropriate, that I have given them 
in detail. They convey a good lesson to both military and medical 
officers, in regard to a very important branch of their duty. 

Class X. Moral Disabilities. 

Some individuals are so addicted to vice of different kinds, ill- 
tempered, quarrelsome, or dishonest, that they are, in many 
respects, disqualified for living in society, more especially in a 
barrack-room, where soldiers are crowded into a small space, and 
where no precaution can prevent a thief from having it in his 
power to pilfer. Inveterate intemperance, with all its concomitant 
evils, also disqualifies many men for military duty. Habitual 
inebriety may be considered an incurable moral disability a vice 
which neither flattery nor flogging will remedy. It is remarked by 
a French author, (and the fact is obviously true,) that a dissolute 
soldier invariably neglects his duty ; he is frequently insensible to 
remonstrance or to punishment ; and his example has a powerful 
eflfect upon conscripts, or young soldiers, in exciting them to indis- 
cipline and to habits of dissipation. (3ne or two niauvais siijets, 
(evil-disposed men) may be the cause of a spirit of insubordination 
ill a company, which, like a gangrene, spreads rapidly through a 



MORAL DISABILITIES* 139 

whole corps, unless early and efficient means be taken to arrest it. 
Moral infirmities are not confined to the most illiterate; for yonng 
men of the better order of society, who have had much of their own 
will, and whose moral education is but imperfect, are extremely apt 
to run headlong into error, and eventually into crime, and thereby 
to irjcur the penalties of military law. Being accustomed to submit 
to no guide but their own self-will, they transgress the rules of 
discipline, sometimes from carelessness, sometimes from caprice, 
and occasionally from vexation, disappointment, and hopelessness 
or despondency. l''[)ey are impatient of restraint; and having no 
self-respect, seem to disregard the good opinion of others. The 
indefinite nature of the soldier's engagement affords no safety-valve 
by wliich his re^^rets may evaporate, and seeing no termination to 
the thraldom of his situation, he is too often ready for the com- 
mission of any act, except that of submitting calmly to his fate, 
and habitually exercising that concentration of military virtues 
obedience. 

Commanding officers of regiments are commonly very anxious 
to "get rid'' of troublesome men, whom they deem irreclaimable; 
consequently there is no class of disabilities which requires to be 
more carefully considered than moral infirmities, as many a crime 
has been perpetrated by soldiers for the avowed purpose of being 
brought before a court-martial and ultimately discharged. The 
infamous character of the ceremony which attends his dismissal 
gives a vicious soldier no concern ; he has in many instances gained 
his object, and he may never again see any individual who was 
present when he was " discharged from the army with every mark 
of ignominy and disgraceP To discharge men who commit 
2:reat irregularities, may, therefore, be a means of encouraging 
vice, rather than a wise measure for repressing indiscipline. "A 
soldier," says the Duke of Wellington, "cannot be allowed, as a 
servant or labourer might be, to quit the service in which he is 
enga2:ed as soon as it becomes irksome to hiu), nor can he be sent 
away because he is disobedient^ irregular^ unwilling to learn, or 
that lie insults, and strikes those whom he is bound to respect and 
obey. He nuisl be constrained to serve the state according to his 
engagements, and must be taucrht, and must be forced to learn how 
to serve in his station of soldier." With respect to recruits, the 
duke states, that " it cannot be denied, that, in 99 instances out of 
100, some idle or irregular, or even vicious motive, is the cause of 
the enlistment of the volunteer." 

The evil consequence which may result from the measure of 
discharging soldiers on account of moral disabilities is strongly 
pointed out by Sir Henry Hardinge, in the following extract from 
his evidence before the commission on military punishments. "7/" 
you give the commanding officer the power of getting rid of had 
fnen because they are bad, you will offer a premium, for miscon- 
duct, aud would make a great number of men bad for the purpose 
of gaining their discharges.''^ 



110 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS, 



Note I. Pa^e 81. 



o 



Adjutant-General's Office, 
Dublin, Xdth April, 1822. 

GENERAL ORDERS. 

No. 1. At a general conrt-martial held in the royal barracks, 
Dublin, on the 30th day of March, 1822, and continued by adjourn- 
ment, stoff-sitrg-eoitj J. Stringer, was arraigned upon the under- 
mentioned charges, viz. 

1st. " For conduct highly unbecoming an officer, and particu- 
larly culpable in his medical capacity as a staff-surgeon, by treating 
in a harsh, unfeeling, and unwarrantable manner, several privates 
of the 12th reofiraent of Lancers, when patients, under his care at 
the Royal Infirmary, in the months of May and June last." 

2d. " For having in the month of May last, at the Royal Infir- 
mary, in a most improper manner, unbecoming his station in the 
army as a statf-surgeon, used opprobrious and disgraceful words 
reflecting on the character of the 12th lancers, to the following 
effect, 'that he had formed his opinion of the i2th lancers, they 
were all schemers and malingerers.' " 

3d. ' For harsh, cruel, and unjust conduct, highly improper and 
incompatible with his duty as a surgeon, towards Joseph Ashmaii, 
a private in the 12th lancers, when a patient under his care for 
ophthalmia, at the Royal Infirmary in the month of May last." 

4th. " For conduct highly unbecoming, and particularly repre- 
hensible in a medical practitioner, by usincr violent, intemperate, 
and unjust language towards William Clyde^n private in the 12th 
lancers, when a patient under his care at the Royal Infirmary in 
the month of July last." 

5th. " For cruel and oppressive conduct inost unbecoming his 
medical station in the army, by placing two privates of the 12tli 
lancers, in strait waistcoats, when patients under his care for oph- 
thalmia, in the Royal Infirmary, in the month of Auq:ust last." 

Upon which charges the court came to the following decision : 

" The court being cleared and closed in, and the prisoner being 
withdrawn ; the court having maturely considered the evidence ad- 
duced on the part of the prosecution, as well as what was offered 
by the prisoner in his defence, is of opinion that the prisoner Staff- 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 141 

Surgeon Stringer^ is not guilty of the first charge, and does acquit 
him of that charge. 

"The court is of opinion that the prisoner is not guilty of the 
second charge, and does acquit him of that charge. 

"The court is of opinion tiiat the prisoner is not guilty of the 
third charge, and does acquit him of tliat charge. 

"The court is of opinion that the prisoner is not guilty of the 
fourth charge, and does acquit him of that charge. 

"The court is of opinion that the prisoner is not guilty of the 
fifth charge, and does therefore acquit him of that charge also." 

It is the commander of the forces' order, that the foregoing charges 
preferred against Staff-Surgeon Josejjh Stringer^ together with the 
tiijding of the court, shall be read at the head of every regiment in 
Ireland, and entered in the general order book. 

No. 2. The king's infirmary in the Phosnix Park is to be visited 
daily by the field officer and the captain of the day, who will report 
respectively to the officer commanding the garrison, any irregularity 
which may fall under their observation, and any complaint which 
may be made to them by the patients. 

No, 3. The use of the strait waistcoat, or of any other coercive 
mode of treatment, is not to be resorted to, except in cases of in- 
sanity, in any military hospital on this establishment, without the 
sanction of the surgeon general or physician general, if in Dublin, 
or of the senior medical officer in the respective districts. Tn eitFier 
case an immediate report is to be made to the director general of 
hospitals. 

No. 4. The general court-martial of which Major- Getieral 
Wulff is president, is dissolved. 

By order of the commander of the forces, 

Aylmer, ArJjuUmt- General. 



8 d 10 mar 



142 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 







03 












1= 


esimal n 
ejections 
equence 
Hernia. 


Ci t^ as ' 








1-1 CC CO 
























a <u 








a S 


-^.2 








c 


O (U c 


tJ< Oi VO 00 "^ 






TS OJ 


a 3 I- 


00 CO CO -* "^ 






2 cr* 


.ir^ 


1 CO OS 00 






is 


pi g 






) 








w fl 


Total 
number 
rejected 


00 VO Oi 00 


Ci 




O 0? 


14,0 
2,3 

46,6 
11,1 


a, 


_ S"? 


00 CO 05 CO 


C 


-T3 G 


13 oj a 


.O CO o oc 


d^ 


'^ 


r s a 


crarc3~co'~co'~ 


H-T 




H 3 CS 


VO -<* G^i (M 


lM 


s 


B^ 


s 


r-H 


Ui 


<? 


"Z o 

S.2 






g 


.1 


2 




^ 


c 


(D ^ 


^ la (M 









S 


VO CO :> CO r-i 

<M T-^ ^ 






t* c 


<U ^. 








^ 


eu S5 














s s 




M 






p~ .jQ 










c S 




C3 






3 




>>a) 






^ c 


b 








Tc^ 


3 


S -^M 






p 


O 








'5-fi 


- 


-TQ S3 *" 






o .-S 


o 


o '^ o c *- 






.2 


ui ^ n ^ 






c ^ 

i^ 


5 

02 












ii = iia 






*- o 




a o a> o) 






S "^ 




Q^CfcQ 






^ 







2 QJ -O 

^ Q- .- 03 
r, = -C 
_= O CO 

'TD " I/-, ; 

I =^ i . 

.S c 3 u a> 

C3 ^ - ^ C3 

<" .2 g ^t 5 
r* z; c - 

ipc o jf 

^ 1/3 . O) S 

g cfi '^ q > 

cj - J- a:> 
c o .!:: , a> 

S C/3 *- ' 

-^ > 2^^ 
So . S-z: 

X^ fc, Cv ^ t^ 

c c ;r: o ^ 
Z^^ ^ 2 

a; ^ *^ O ^ 

p CO ^ o o 
(L- ^ o^ bt 2 

jC O Qj c g 

C-, Z <^ c --2 
'^ c b 

C C C cS 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



143 



CO 




JS 




* 




^ 












^ 




f- 




07 




JC 




Q) 


CO 


1' 


o 








as 


es 


00 





biO 


<i) 




ffi 


^ 


%_ 


o 


c 




o^ 


c 


J 






o^c 


QJ 


tM 


m 

C 


'^ 


S3 


o 






c 


n. 






, 


s 


a 


a? 










tc" ^ 


.c 




Urn 






o 


03 


c ^ 




** 


GQ 


bn 


c 


c: 


o 


o 


^ 


a 




cs 


S 


a} 


m 


CO 


ff^ 


C3 




a> 


<^ 


CO 


o 


T3 


a 




s 


>. 


C -Q 


TS 


^ 







c 


hf. 


o 


c 


in 






1^ 


o 


o 


o 


CO 


t>. 


4_> 




r. 


__ 


s 

a 


XL 
o 

a 






Ul 





j-qigu8Jjs aqi jo 






OOO'Ul iati |Biid 


ooocoioovnr^oo50oooi^co<Mco 




-soq ojui suojs 


1-1 T-l ,-1 T-l 1-H 1-1 




-SjuipB JO oiieu 






Biujafj 






niojj sqjeap 


T-l T-l 1-1 CO CO 1-H 


o 


aiB3jS:gV 






BiaJ9jj peaq 






aqj japan -dsoq 


t^05ir5coi^i-'coi>-<rtiOu:)C5i^r^(M 


CD 


oiuf aoissHU 


t>- t^ CO CNJ 00 CO lO VO CO O 'Tf (M CO 1-1 


CO 


-pB ajBSajSSy 








'^r^CJil^iriiOOrOOirOCO 'OJtQfM 


_ 




COCOcOC^iOrfOicOCOCMOi'XI-"* '00 


CO 


qjSaaJis 


cc oi^tc i> Oi^oj 1 ^c^jooojoi-^vnoo 


Oi 


ajBgajSSy 


cD~o"^'"io"ar-^ -^"co < <S <S ^ '^ d> ^ 


t>r 


00r*<lO 'COCO-<;}<'X)Tjil><X>'^CO(M 


00 




rH 


J> 


qjSaaJis 


COCOaDCDr^iOCOCDC0i-<Tl*-^C0CDCO 




COOilMOOOlCO;^)^^ '^ > 'CvjOiCVJ 




OBai/^ 


CO-^I^CM-^i-i-rf iOO>O(M0}iX)Q0 




Ti<(M(M t^r^COOCO{MC'3CO(Mi-'i-i 




sjBaA 


OOCOC0 0505t^C000005CM 




JO jaqmn^j 


(M (M Cv} 03 ( (M (M CM OJ OJ ^ 1-1 




to 


^CDcO(X>-#Tj<Ti4COCDCOcOc>COcOCO 




^ 


cocococororococococ-acococococo 




o , 


GOOoooaoooooGoooooooooaDOOonQo 




3l 


222S22222222222 


"s 






o 


03 C 


t^t^t2;t^oicocDot>jr;-r^t-jt2:22'^^ 


E-i 






o 


QOCOOOOOOOGOaDOOOOOOaDCOOOOOOO 




1 














CO en 




o 

2 


IS 3 




o 






tfi 






Jn 


a -^ ad cc rtcddcjodd 
c2 ^Q ciS > >.QQQQQQ 




CS 




O 


^ffl^ ^O O^ 






oT -!r 






-vS w 






i2 o ^ 






m ^ C 






''.- a 






-1^ 




. 


^ ^ 




d 


<y ^ oT 




o 










W 


''' fcO 3 rt O 










-3 ,^.^^^.S - ..^? 









144 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



This Statement is interesting in many respects. Among an ag- 
gretrate strength of 787,961 men, 766 were admitted into hospital 
under the head '-hernia," beino^ about I in lUOO of the strength. 
Ten cases terminated fatally, being 1 in 78,796 of the aggregate 
strength, and 1 in 76 of the cases admitted into hospital on account 
of this disease. 

The ratio of admissions among the cavalry of the united kingdom 
is 1 per 1000, being exactly the mean ratio of admissions among 
the troops (infantry and cavalry) employed in the different stations. 

The obvious conclusion that may be drawn from these facts is, 
that hernia adds very little to the inefficiency or the mortality of the 
army. 



PART III. 

ON THE PENSIONING OF SOLDIERS. 



I. Military Pensions Chelsea Hospital Out-Pensioners. 

The earliest notice which I have discovered of the awarding of 
military pensions is in the reign of Edward IV. who made a grant 
to John Sclaiter of four marks, for the loss of his hand at the battle 
of Wakefield; and another to Rauf Veshynden, of an annuity of 
ten pounds, by letters-patent under the great seal, till rewarded 
with an office, "for the good and agreeable service which he did 
unto us,'- says the patent, "in carrying and holdying of our stan- 
dard of the Black Bull at the batayl of Sherborne." 

By the statute of the 43d of Q,ueen Elizabeth, justices of the 
peace had power to charge every parish towards a weekly relief of 
maimed soldiers and mariners, so that no parish paid weekly above 
tenpence, nor under twopence; nor any county, which consisted of 
above fifty parishes, to pay above sixpence, one parish with another; 
which sums, so taxed, were to be assessed in every parish by the 
parishioners, or, in default, by the churchwardens and constables, 
or, in their default, by the next justice or justices of the peace. 
The tax thus collected was to be paid over to the treasurer of the 
county. A maimed soldier or mariner, v/ho had been pressed, was 
to repair to the treasurer of the county where he had been pressed ; 
if he were not pressed, then to the treasurer of the county where 
he was born, or where he last dwelt for the space of three years, 
at his election; but, if he was not able to travel, then to the treasu- 
rer of the county where he landed. He was to be furnished with 
a certificate under the hand and seal of the chief commander, or 



I 
I 



CHELSEA HOSPITAL. 145 

of tlie captain under whom he had served, containing the particu- 
lars of his hurts and services. Upon a proper certificate, the trea- 
surer mia:ht allow a man the means of subsistence until the next 
quarter-session, when the justices were empowered to grant him a 
pension, not exceeding L.IO to a soldier; to an officer, under a 
lieutenant, L.15; to a lieutenant, L.20. 

A soldier or mariner who was found begging, or who counter- 
feited a certificate, was to suffer punishment as a common rogue, 
and to forfeit any pension he niiofht have. 

During the reign of Charles I. (1643,) parliament passed an act 
empowering a tax to be levied upon the parishes in England, for 
the purpose of raising a fund for the relief of maimed soldiers, and 
the widows and fatherless children of slain persons. All persons 
claiming relief from this fund were to bring a certificate, under the 
hand of an officer belonging to the regiment "wherein the said 
soldiers or slain persons did formerly serve, of the truth of their 
being maimed or slain in the said service." 

By a statute of 12th King Charles II., all officers and soldiers 
who served under the command of the captain-general of the king^s 
forces in 1660, and who had not since deserted or refused to take 
the oaths of supremacy and allegiance, might exercise any handi- 
craft or trade in manner following: viz. such as had been appren- 
tices might exercise such trades as they were bound to, though they 
served not out their time, with like immunities as if they had, and 
all other such trades as they were apt and al)le for in the towns and 
places within the several counties where they were born ; and, if 
implicated or indicted for the same, they might plead the general 
issue, and should have double costs, if a verdict passed against the 
prosecutor, or if he was non-suited or the suit discontinued. The 
privilege of exemption from penalties for exercising trades in cor- 
porate towns has been continued to discharged soldiers, their wives 
and children, bv subsequent acts of parliament, to the 56th George 
III. cap. 67. 

CHELSEA HOSPITAL. 

Louis XIV. founded the Hotel Royal des Invalides in Paris in 
1670. On the 16th February, 1682, twelve years afe-, the first 
stone of the Royal hospital at Chelsea was laid by Charles II., who 
was attended by a great concourse of nobility and gentry. How 
far the latter monarch intended to rival the magnificence of Louis 
XIV. in |)roviding for his disabled soldiers, it is difficult to conjec- 
ture. Several large subscriptions were received from wealthy indi- 
viduals for the purpose of contributing to the erection of Chelsea 
hospital. The construction of the edifice was carried on during 
the successive reigns of Charles II., James II., William and Mary, 
and finally completed in 1690. The whole expense incurred in 
its erection is said to have amounted to L. 150,000. The hospital, 
together with the out-buildiuirs, crardens, courts, and appurtenances, 
occupies a space of about thirty-six acres. In all probability iho 



146 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

hospital was, immediately after its corapleiion, converted to the pur- 
pose for which it was intended namely, the accommodation of 
"decayed cavahers." Simon Box, the tirst person who was buried 
in the ground appropriated to the internment of pensioners, died on 
the 23d of April, 1693. Charles II. also founded Kilmainham 
hospital, for the reception of disabled soldiers in Ireland. 

The affiiirs of Chelsea hospital are managed by commissioners, 
appointed by patent under the great seal; they are commonly co^ 
officio^ namely: 

The liOrd President of the Council, 

First Lord of the Treasury, 

Paymaster-General of the Forces, 

Secretary at War, 

Comptroller of Army Accounts, 

The Governor and the Lieutenant-Governor of the Hospital. 

The commissioners hold boards for the admission of pensioners, 
and the internal regulation of the hospital. 

By a warrant bearing date 1684, five per cent, or one-twentieth 
shillina (poundage) was deducted from the pay of every officer and 
-soldier in the army; and under the head of "hospital money," one 
day's 2:ross pay annually. The amount of these deductions was 
chiefly devoted to the support of Chelsea hospital. In May, 1771, 
his majesty was pleased to direct that the private men of the infan- 
try should be exempted from poundage in those dear times, as also 
from the deduction made for the regimental paymaster and surgeon, 
amounting to 16s. 6d. a year; and since this period, 1 believe, 
neither "poundage" nor "hospital money" has been deducted from 
the soldiers' pay. These deductions were made fronj the pay of 
commissioned officers, until the year 1783, when they ceased. 

There are commonly about from 450 to 520 in-pensioners, who 
are divided into the following classes : 



29 captains who receive each 
34 Serjeants ..... 
38 liiiht horsemen 

36 corporals ..... 
17 drummers .... 
privates ..... 

Captains, Serjeants, and corporals, are appointed from the most 
deserving men. The "light horse" are jrenerally selected for dis- 
lincruished conduct in the army, or good behaviour while in the 
hospital : they have, for the most part, been Serjeants in regiments 
of cavalry. The pensioners are clothed in a uniform of scarlet, 
faced with blue. 

In the year 1695, the Earl of Ranelagh vested the sum of 
L.3250 in the hands of trustees, and directed the interest to be 



Wee 

3s. 


kly pay. 
6d. 


2 








10 





8 




I 



OUT-PENSIONERS. 147 

Jaid out in pnrchasins: great-coats for tFie pensioners once in three 
years. By another benefaction, the sum of L.60, 10s. is distributed 
among the pensioners annually on the 29th of May. {See Note I.) 

OUT-PENSIONERS. 

The hospital at Chelsea was perhaps at first capable of accom- 
modating all the disabled soldiers who were considered fit objects 
for the bounty of government, so that for some time no out-pension 
list existed. From the restoration of Charles II. (1660,) to a com- 
paratively late date, a portion of the British forces consisted of 
"invalids." The men of these corps or companies were soldiers 
partially disabled by wounds, or veterans who, from old age and 
length of service, were rendered incapable of the duties of an 
active campaign, but who were still judged fit for garrison duty. 
In the year 1731, a motion was made in the house of commons, 
"That a sum not exceeding L.25,348, 2s. should be granted to his 
majesty, upon account for out-peiisioners of Chelsea hospital for 
the year 1732.'' During the debate which took place on the mo- 
tion, it was stated that the several bodies of invalids amounted to 
4000. A member observed, that the pensioners were "admitted as 
old and infirm, but being in, they seem immortal, their numbers 
never decrease; surely many of these immortal old men might 
have served as good soldiers even in a marching regiment, espe- 
cially in peace, when there's no occasion for any great fatigue." 
Another member, who had been a commissioner at the Chelsea 
board, asserted that, while he was so employed, every care had been 
taken to admit no invalids on the list of pensioners, but such as 
were disabled in the service, or who had served their country for 
at least twenty years. "We have," said he, "made them strip to 
the skin, the better to judge of their inability; and after such strict 
inquiry, we could not in humanity refuse to admit them." 

Previously to 1754, the pensioners did not receive their pension 
until a year's allowance had become due; but a bill was passed in 
that year, authorising the pensions of discharged soldiers to be paid 
in advance at half-yearly periods: and to this bill a clause was 
added, enacting that all contracts should be void by which a pen- 
sion miofht be mortgacred. The out-pensioners continued to be 
paid half-yearly until 1815, when an act of parliament was passed 
to enable the commissioners of Chelsea hospital to pay the pensions 
quarterly, which mode of payment continues. Poundage is de- 
ducted from the amount of pensions, in consequence of the issue 
being made in advance. 

Invalid soldiers seem to have been originally admitted into the 
Royal hospital, or upon the out-pension list, in diftorent modes. 
One was by a letter addressed to the commissioners of Chelsea 
hospital, by the secretary at war, siornifying his majesty's direc- 
tions that certain soldiers should be admitted as pensioners, pro- 
vided they were qualified. Sometimes the communication signified 



148 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

the positive commands of his majesty. In 1761 or 1762, a warrant 
was issued, directintf that no person should he made a pensioner 
unless he came from a reofiment, and appeared in person hefore the 
commissioners. It seems also that Fie forfeited l)is claim to a pen- 
sion if he did not make his appearance within six months from 
the time he was discharf^ed, or gave a good reason for omitting to 
do so. 

Durintr the session of 1806, certain acts of parliament were 
passed, in pursuance of which a new warrant was issued, contain- 
ing a code of "Orders and regulations for the better ordering of 
our army, and for improving the condition of non-commissioned 
officers and soldiers, and for fixing the pensions, allowances, and 
relief, to which non-commissioned officers and soldiers are to be- 
come entitled on their discharge, by reason of the expiration of 
certain periods of service, or as invalid, disabled or wounded." 
The warrant is dated 7th of October, 1806. 

Abstract of the Orders and Regulations contained in this and 
several subsequent warrants irhich were issued for the guid- 
ance of the Commissioners of Chelsea Hospital. 

I. Rates of pensions of men who shall be discharged after hav- 
ing completed certain periods of service; namely, 14 years in the 
infantry, and 17 years in the cavalry: serjeant-major, quartermas- 
ter Serjeant, Serjeant, corporal, and private, 5d. per day. Rates of 
pensions after having served 21 years in the infantry, or 24 years 
in the cavalry: serjeant-major and quartermaster serjeant. having 
served three years as such, 2s.; serjeant, from Is. to Is. lOd. per 
day. Half-penny a day to be added to the Is. for every year of ser- 
vice as a corporal, and Id. for every year of service as a serjeant; 
but the pension is in no case to exceed Is. lOd.: corporals, from 
Is. to Is. 6d. Half-penny a day to be added to the Is. for every 
year of service as a corporal, but the pension is in no case to exceed 
Is. 6d.: private. Is. per day. 

To non-commissioned officers or privates who serve after twenty- 
one and twenty-four years respectively, one half-penny a day to be 
added to the pension, for every year of service after the expiration 
of these periods, without limit as to tlie amount. 

II. Rates of pensions of non-commissioned officers, and soldiers 
dischartred as disabled or unfit for service: 6d. per day, if unfit 
for service, but able to earn a livelihood; 9d. per day if disabled, 
but able materially to assist themselves; Is. per day if disabled, but 
able to contribute something towards their livelihood; Is. 3d. to 
Is. 6d. per day, if incapable of contributing to earn a livelihood. 

III. The third class of pensions were obtained by men in conse- 
quence of a combination of claims, namely, length of service and 
disabilities. The amount of the pension in this class is regulated 
by the degree of a man's disability and his length of service : thus, 
a soldier who, in respect of his disability merely, would be placed 



OUT-PENSIONERS. 149 

on either of the two lower rates, shall, if discharged after servings 
fourteen years in the infantry, or seventeen in the cavalry, be en- 
titled to the pension of one shilling. 

Soldiers discharged after seven years' service in the infantry or 
ten in the cavalry, were to be allowed to reckon one year for every 
two of absence subsequently to such discharge, and to be entitled 
to a pension of 5d. on the expiration of fourteen or seventeen years 
respectively, but registered men were liable to serve in case of an 
emergency. In like manner, when men were discharged after 
fourteen or seventeen years' service, who had not received a pen- 
sion, on account of disability, they were to be allowed to reckon 
one year for every two of absence subsequently to such discharge, 
so as to .be entitled to the full pension of Is. a day at tlie expira- 
tion of twenty-one or twenty-four years respectively. 

Soldiers were allowed to reckon three years for every two of ser- 
vice in the West or East Indies, for the purpose of claiming increase 
of pay and pension in case of discharge. 

Such is an abstract of that part of Mr. Windham's act which 
relates to the granting of pensions. By this bill the power of the 
crown to grant or take away pensions was abrogated, and it gave 
to the soldier a claim of right to a pension, upon the condition of 
serving for certain periods of time, or if he were discharged as dis- 
abled and unfj for service, without reference to lensfth of service. 

By a warrant of the 30th June, 1812, the commissioners of Chel- 
sea Kospital were empowered to extend the rates of pension, under 
certain circumstances, in the following proportions: 

To every serjeant who shall have lost more than one limb, or 
who sfiall have received such other bodily injury as to render him 
totally incapable of earning a livelihood, or to subject hinj to the 
necessity of requiring personal assistance, a rate of pension not ex- 
ceeding, per day, 3s. 6d.; to every corporal, 3s.; to every private, 
2s. 6d. 

On the 16th February, 1818, a warrant was issued, by which the 
following rules were established : 

1. That the rates of pension to be granted to soldiers enlisting 
subsequently to the 14th March, 1818, be in no case higher than 
the rate of full pay enjoyed by them at their discharge, excluding 
the additional pay, if any, for length of service. 

This rule was essentially necessary to prevent malingering, as it 
could hardly be expected that a soldier would serve cheerfully and 
faithfully, when a pecuniary prize, amounting to a suuj above liis 
pay, was to be gained by successfully feigning a disability, and 
thereby procuring his discharge. 

2. That in reckoning the service of soldiers claiming pensions, 
no distinction be made between service in the East or West Indies, 
and service in any other part of his majesty's dominions. 

Undt^r the provisions of Mr. Windham's act, a soldier who had 
served in the East or West Indies might be entitled to a service 



150 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

pension of 5d. a-day for life at twenty-eight, and Is. a-day at thirty- 
two years of age. 

3. That soldiers enhsting subsequently to the 14th of March 
1818, shall not be allowed to reckon absent time (one year for two) 
as in Mr. Windham's act. 

I am not aware of any good reason which can be assigned for 
pensioning men on account of "absent time." Registered men 
might be called out, no doubt, in cases of emero^ency ; but it would 
have been mucli easier to raise young recruits, and to make them 
adepts in the military exercise, than to induce reluctant, and con- 
sequently malingering pensioners, to perform their duty efficiently. 

4. That, with respect to soldiers at present servings the com- 
missioners of Chelsea Hospital shall have the discretion of grant- 
ing, as a final pension, more than 5d. and less than Is. to those 
who shall have served more than fourteen years and less than 
twenty-one years in the infantry, or more than seventeen and less 
than twenty four in the cavalry, according to the number of years 
such soldiers shall have served. 

5. That the commissioners shall not grant pensions, in respect 
of disability, unless such disability be stated in the discharjj^e of the 
soldier to fiave been contracted on service. Commanding officers 
to recommend the discharged soldier, when they think him deserv- 
ing of recommendation. 

This rule was evidently framed for the purpose of excluding 
from the bounty of government all those individuals who had be- 
come disabled, except by the exigencies of the service. 

Accordino- to the warrants of the 22d March, 1822, and 4th No- 
vember, 1826, no soldier, who enlisted after the 24th April, 1822, 
shall be entitled to a pension for service alone, until he shall have 
completed twenty-one years in the infantry, or twenty-four in the 
cavalry. 

In the appreciation of a man's claim on account of disabilities, 
the board is assisted by the assistant surgeon of Chelsea Hospital 
and the principal medical officer attached to the invalid depot, 
Chatham, or a staff surgeon belonging to that establish merit. The 
discharge of a man, who receives a pension, is retained at Chelsea 
Hospital, being the record upon which the bounty of j^overnment 
is granted. In the working of this system, the commissioners used 
to exercise considerable discretion in regard to the amount of pen- 
sions given in particular cases, the following pensions beinsf com- 
monly awarded on account of specific disabilities, without reference 
to the service of the parties; and, except in particular instances, 
little attention was paid to rank. 

Per Diem. 

Total blindness, - - - - \s. 9rf. 

A Serjeant when blind, - - - - 2 

Loss of one eye, - - - - 9 



OUT-PENSIONERS. 



151 



* , ^. ci below the elbow-ioint, 

Amputation of ).^,^^ . ' 






9 


1 





1 


6 





9 


1 








6 





9 



Cavalry. 


Infantry. 


17 years' service, and under 18 

18 ditto 20 
20 ditto 24 


14 and under 15 

15 ditto 17 
17 ditto 21 



above, 
an arm, ^ ^^ ^^^ shoulder-joint. 
Amputation of ^ below the knee, 
a leg", I above, 

H-nia. - IS; - - - 

When a soldier was entitled to one shillino- per diem, or above 
that amount, on account of service alone, and vvns discharged for 
any ordinary disability, he was commonly awarded to the amount 
of the service rate only, inasmuch as the board considered that 
such rate was an adequate remuneration. He generally obtained 
a pension according to the claim which was most favourable to 
him, whether it were on account of length of service, or the degree 
of his disability. 

The commissioners carried the 4th article of the warrant of the 
16th February, 1818, into effect, according to the following scale: 

Rate 
per Diem. 
0^. 5d, 
7 
9 

According to the regulations of 1806, a soldier had a legal rig:ht 
to a pension for life, when he had served a prescribed period, or 
was discharo;ed in consequence of heins: disabled and mijlt for ser- 
vice, provided that he was not specifically deprived of that right 
by the sentence of a court-martial, or that the disability for which 
he was discharged was not occasioned by "vice or misconduct." 
The "vice or misconduct" contemplated in the act is defined to be 
conduct which occasions a physical disability, such as voluntary 
maiming, (fcc. 

In framing these regulations it does not appear to have been con- 
templated -that a soldier mi^ht become disqualified for the service 
by disgraceful conduct. According to the opinion of counsel, moral 
depravity does not, urider this act, cancel a soldier's claim to a pen- 
sion for lengtFi of service. Hence, when a man has served the 
prescribed period which entitles him to a pension, he may procure 
his discharge by feigning disabilities, or, by the commission of 
crimes, which may render it expedient to discharge him from a 
corps. 

The commissioners of Chelsea hospital were, therefore, in a great 
measure, prevented from exercising a discretionary power in regard 
to the character and conduct of a man when they awarded him a 
pension. When a soldier wIjo had been "discharged as disabled 
or unfit for service," was brought before the board, the chief busi- 
ness of the commissioners was to apportion a pet)sion according to 
the alleged disability or degree o( unjil?iess for labour. 



152 MA 



RSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS 



The following statement will show the numbers on the 
Pension List from 1741 to the year 1831. 




Years. 


Pensioners. 


Amount of 
pensions. 


Mean rate of 
pensions. 


1741 
1745 
1750 
1755 
1760 
1765 
1770 
1775 
1780 
1785 

r/90 

1792 
1795 

1800 
1805 
1810 
1815 
1820 
1825 
1826 
1827 
1828 
1829 
1830 
1831 


3,865 
5,133 
9,087 
8,422 
6,612 
15.229 
15,928 
15,770 
10,961 
20,273 
20,091 
20,150 
16,995 
16.695 
22,290 
23,050 
36,757 
55,911 
81,877 
82,734 
85,515 
85.835 
85,756 
85,724 
84,534 


158,102 
133,375 
132,298 

187,281 

417,035 

665,646 

972.704 

1,350,113 - 

1,372.330 

1,420,464 

1,437,756 

1,436,663 


S. D. 

5h 
6^ 
5^ 

5 

1 
1 

IH 

10^- 
10 
10 
101 
lOf 



This statement shows that the pension list gradually increased 
during a long period of profound peace, a circumstance which 
indicates that the regulations required alteration. A large propor- 
tion of the pensioners in 1829 were neither old men, nor sutfering 
under serious disabilities, as may be inferred from the annual ratio 
of mortality, which was only between three and a half and four 
per cant. There were, in 1828, 19,0U0 men on the Chelsea list, 
whose mean age was about thirty-one years, and who received six- 
pence a day in consequence of alleged disabilities. During the 
year 1828, ninety men were placed on the out-pension list who 
had not served two years, or reached twenty-two years of age. A 
system under which soldiers could, for very short service, be pen- 



The Kilmainham pensioners were this year (1825) joined to the Chelsea 
pensioners. 




OUT-PENSIONERS. 



153 



sioned for life, easily accounts for the constantly increasing num- 
bers of pensioners. A facility of quitting the service on false 
grounds, whether a man receives a pension or not, is calculated to 
encourage imposition, and to injure the tiiscifjline of the army. 

To sfiow the practical operation of Mr. Windham's act, 1 have 
subjoined a return of the number of men admitted on the pension 
list during the year 1828, distinguishing the avert^ge age and length 
of service, and the proportion per cent.'of the men discharged after 
each period of service. 



Number. 


Average age 
about 


Period of service. 


Proportion p^^r 
cent, of the num- 
ber discharged. 


90 


21 years. 


From 1 to 2 years. 


4.1 


123 


21 


3 5 


5.5 


192 


29 


510 


8.7 


3vJ6 


33 


10 13 


14.8 


176 


34 


14 15 


8. 


785 


37 


1520 


35.8 


188 


41 


2122 


8.5 


118 


41 


2223 


5.4 


65 


43 


2324 


3. 


76 


44 


2425 


3.8 


17 


43 


25 26 


8 


6 


47 


26 27 


3 


7 


48 


27 28 


3 


12 


47 


2829 


5 


6 


52 


29 30 


3 


4 


51 


30 and upwards 


1 


2190 


100 



The out-pension list amounted, in 1823, to 81,189, and in 1827 
it was 85,515 ; showing a great annual increment of permanent 
pensions. The number of men discharged on account of disabili- 
ties, from 1823 to 1827, both years inclusive, amounted to 18,378, 
or annually, 3,675 a number equal to about 3.7 per cent, of the 
army. Of the 18,378 alleged disabled men who were discharged, 
17,486 were pensioned for life under the subjoined three classes of 
claims. 

It would be interesting to ascertain what has been the ratio of 
mortality among the 1714 men, (see next table,) who were pensioned 
on account of alleged disabilities at the mean age oftwenty-iburyears. 

Sir Henry Hardinge instituted an investioation into the pension 
list in 18''^8, and, owing to his exertions, the increment during that 
year exceeded the decrement by only 319. In 1829, the list 
amounted to 85,756, which was a reduction of seventy-eight below 
the list of the year 1828, and the amount of charge was less by 
L.1093. 



154 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 







a; a 


C4-. 






^ 


.2 


r. fl! 


bo 




a 

3 


n 




C3 

a 




^ 


^'0 


^ S 


S 








Yrs. Mths. 


Yrs. Mths. 






s. d. 






Alleged disabilities, ) 










without reference to > 


1,714 


7 


4 4 


24 


lenijth of service, 3 










Alle<>ed disabilities, ) 
and service combined, ) 


5,475 


8i 


13 10 


33 3 


Alleged "worn J 










out," pensioned for V 


10,297 


1 0^ 


22 2 


40 2 


length of service. \ 












1 


17,486 









Subjoined is a detailed statement of the numbers at present on 
the pension list, extracted from the army estimates, 18th Feb. 1839. 

Ov.t- Pensioners of Chelsea Hospital. 





2 









a 










Oi 1 
_Q 00 

SSo 




^.2 

si 


02 P^ 


a 



a 






Rate. 


For one day. 


PQ CLi 




L. 






2 






2 






2 


at2^d. a day. 


5 


1 




3 


1 






4 


3 





1 


35 


19 








14 


33 


41 





13 Of 


4,728 


2,114 


1,097 




1,363 




4,574 


5 


95 


5 10 


27 








24 


41 


24 


5i 





11 


15,024 


13,653 


98 




946 




14,738 


6 


368 


9 


25 








25 




25 


6i 





3 6i 


2,167 


2,003 


18 




85 




2,106 


7 


61 


8 6 


15 








14 




14 


7^ 





8 9 


471 




450 




34 




484 


8 


16 


2 8 


20 








19 




19 


8i 





13 bh 


13,182 


11,732 


5 


23 


1,012 


6 


12,778 


9 


479 


3 6 


29 








28 




28 


9^ 


1 


2 2 


1,546 


1,489 


18 




61 




1,568 


10 


65 


6 8 


21 








20 




20 


m 





17 6 


30 


12 






28 




40 


11 


1 


16 8 


42 


14 






26 




40 


Hi 


1 


18 4 


2 








2 




2 


111 





1 IH 


18,157 


15,093 


17 


50 


2,430 


1 


17,591 


Is. 


879 


11 


22,369 


19,424 


3 


1 


3,388 




22,816 


* 


1551 


7 8 


1,439 


1,214 


2 


6 


243 




J, 465 


Between 
2s. &3s. 6d. 
do. for Iday. 


162 


6 


79,332 


66,767 


1,711 


83 


9,748 


62 


78,371 


3687 


18 8i 



Which for 366 days is L. 1,349,783 19s. 7id. 

At various rates between Is. and 2s. a day, in consideration of being totally dis- 
abled by blindness, or otherwise, or of having been more than 21 years in the infantry, 
or 24 in the cavalry. 



PENSIONING WARRANT. 155 

II. Pensioning Warranty 1829. 

General Heads of Arrangement of the Regulations for Pen- 
sioning Soldiers. 
Revised Warrant, canceling all existing warrants, regu- 
lations, (fee. 
Articles. 

1 to 14. Division of pensions into four classes. 
1st. Length of service. 
2d. Wounds received in action. 
3d. Disabilities, after 14 years' service. 
4th. Disabilities, under 14 years' service. 
'5 to 21. Special cases of disability, how to be dealt with. 
22 to 33. Forfeiture of pension for misconduct, specified in each 

article. 
34 and 35. Commutation of pension for a sum of money or grant 

of land. . 
30 to 45. Rules in reckoning service, showing what description 

of service will be admitted or excluded. 
46 to 56. Conditions under which discharges may be obtained. 
57 to 62. Deductions to which the pensioner is liable. 

GEORGE R. 

W^HEREAS we have judged it expedient to revise, 
amend, and consolidate the rules, orders, and regulations, which, 
in furtherance of various acts of parliament, have from time to time 
been established for the better ordering of our army, and for im- 
proving the condition of soldiers, by granting them pensions, allow- 
ances, and relief, on their discharjje after certain periods of service, 
as wounded, disabled, or invalided, in our service : 
7th Oct'r. 1806. Our will and pleasure therefore is, that the seve- 
28 h^F"ff ifiu' ^^^ warrants bearing the respective dates specified in 
25th Mar. 1816! ^^^^ margin hereof, and that all rules, orders, and 
19th Dec. 1816. regulations consequent thereupon, shall (subject to 
Qfi? M^^* ^^^*' ^^^ reservation herein contained) be void; and that 
28th JuYy IS'^S ^^^ ''^" thereof, the rules, orders, and regulations an- 
19ih Auff. 182.3! nexed to this our warrant, shall henceforth be in 
4th Nov'r. 1826. force. 

It is our further will and pleasure to reserve and continue to all 
non-commissioned ofliicers and soldiers enlisted before the first day 
of December, 1829, every benefit to which they may respectively 
be entitled under the warrants and regulations hereby made void. 

And we do hereby direct and order, that the commissioners of 
our Royal hospital at Chelsea, as well as all other persons whom it 
may in any wise concern, shall strictly observe and obey this our 
warrant, and the regulations annexed to it. 

Given at our court at Windsor, this fourteenth day of Novem- 
ber, 1829, in the tenth year of our reign. 

By his majesty's command, 

Henry Hardinge. 



155 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 



Regulations. 

1. All non-commissioned officers and soldiers enlisted previously 
to the tirst day of December, 1829, shall, as regards their right to 
claim pensions for service and wounds, remain entitled to every 
benefit or provision which they can at present claim under any 
warrants or regulations which were in force at the time of their 
enlistment; but the following rules and reo^ulations only shall be 
in force, ajid applicable to all non-commissioned officers and sol- 
diers enlisted after the thirtieth day of November, 1829. ' 

2. Claims for pensions shall be divided into the four following 
classes : 

First class.-T-Lens^th of service. 

Second class. Wounds received in action. 

Third class. Disabilities contracted in the service, after fourteen 
years' service. 

Fourth class. Disabilities contracted in the service, under four- 
teen years' service. 

First Class. Length of Service. 

3. A soldier enlisted for unlimited service has no claim, as a 
matter of rights to his discharge, either with or without a pension, 
after any period of service, however long. 

4. No soldier, when discharged, shall be allowed a pension for 
length of service alone, unless he shall have served twenty-four 
complete years in the cavalry, or twenty-one years in the infantry; 
but, when discharged after those periods of service, he may be 
allowed a pension, not exceeding the under-mentioned rates, viz: 

Private. 



If discharegd on account ! ' ^ 
of the public Wvice. Infantry 

If discharged at his own i Cavalry 
request. ( Infantry 

Soldiers are bound to serve until they are legally discharged; 
but this contract is not mutual, inasmuch as a soldier may be "dis- 
charged on account of the public service," whenever it is deemed 
expedient by government to do so, and without his consent being 
required for that purpose. Soldiers are said to be "discharged on 
account of the public service," when they receive their discharge 
in consequence of ^'unfitness for service.^^ Men belonging to the 
infantry, who enlisted previously to 1833, and who have served 



After Years 


Rates 


of Service. 


per Diem. 


S 24 

28 


Is. Od. 


1 2 


S 21 

( 25 


1 


I 2 


24 


10 


21 


10 




PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 157* 

21 years, and have been discharged as disqualified for mihtary 
duty, become entitled to an annuity of Is. a day for life; but if a 
n)an be discharged at his own request, after a service of the same 
period, he receives only lOd. a clay. The practical effect of this 
regulation will be to promote the simulation of disabilities, inas- 
much as an alleofed infirm man will recefve 2d. a day more than a 
man, with the same service, who does not allege that he is unfit for 
military duty. If a discharge from the army and a pension can 
be more easily obtained by a soldier, on account of alleged disabili- 
ties, than after the same length of service without any specific 
infirmity, disabilities will come upon him all at once, when he has 
completed the period of 21 or 22 years in the army; and if a man' 
who has served that time, including the usual share of foreign 
service, alleges that his strength is inadequate for military duties, 
worn out in fact, or that he suffers from rheumatism, what medical 
man will have the hardihood to gainsay him? But it may be 
asked, ought alleged disabilities* to enhance the claim of a soldier 
to a pension, after 21 years' service ? Impaired health is rarely an 
evidence of merit in a soldier it is frequently a result of culpable 
conduct, intemperance, moral delinquency ; and consequently, 
when a man is discharged on account of alleged disabilities, he 
may be indebted for the extra 2d. a day to moral or physical in fir* 
mities, rather than to good conduct or a meritorious character. 
Health and efficiency in an old soldier may be considered as tolera- 
bly conclusiv^e evidence that he has lived temperately, performed 
his duty regularly, and conducted himself creditably. 

The practice of other powers in regard to the remuneration of 
soldiers, after .certain periods of service, deserves consideration. 
When the Duke de Clioiseul became minister at war, in 1761, he 
fixed a soldier's engagement in the French army at eight years. 
Those who re-enlisted at the expiration of that period were entitled, 
at the end of sixteen years, to half-pay and clothing, and if they 
served a third period of eight years, they retired with full pay ancV 
clothing, without reference to disabilities. 

In the East India Company's service, Serjeants of the European 
force, who have served twenty-one years, whereof the last eight 
have been in that capacity, are entitled to receive, during life, 
a pension of Is. 9d. a-day, and those who have lost a limb 2s. 
a-day. 

Serjeants who have served fourteen years in the company's army, 
and who have been discharged on account of debilitated constitu- 
tions, are entitled to Is. a day for life. 

All corporals and privates discharged at their own request, after 
twenty-one years' service, are to receive Is. a-day ; and corporals 
and privates after fourteen years' service, discharged as unfit on 
account of broken constitutions, are entitled to receive ninepence 
a-day. 

In the army of the United States of America, each recruit who 
enlists for a period of five years is allowed a premium of 124 
8 e 11 7nar 



15S MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 

dollars. 50 to be paid at enlislment, 50 after joiiiinjr a rrofjment,and 
24 when he is discharared ; and each iion commissiniud officer and 
private hecomes entitled to receive in possession 3"40 acres oi land 
when he is hononrably discharged. By a law passed in 1816. the 
le^ral representatives of soldiers who were killtd or died in the 
service, were allowed to claim the bourjty of land by virtne of their 
right. [Dr. Seybort^ Statistical Annals, pofre 591.) 

The commissioners, in their report on the subject of military 
pnnishnjonts, sniri3:est, that " 7zo consideration of expense, within 
reasonable boujids, shonld be allowed to stand in the way of 
attendinp^ to the comforts of the soldier while in the service, and 
of a sufficient peiision for the good and deserving men, after the 
service has been performed,^' a recommendation with which I 
most cordially agree. Rasli and imprudent contracts may be 
entered into by parlies, but they will not be cheerfully fulfilled, nor 
will compulsion efficiently enforce them, unless the terms of the 
aoreement are found upon trial to' be mutually advantageous. A 
recruit commonly enlists when he is a minor, and ignorant of all 
the consequences of his engagement ; but by exposintr himself to 
death and mutilation, or the diseases and mortality of tropical 
climates, he acquires a strong clainj to an adequate means of sub- 
sistence, when, from long service, he becomes unfit for the duties of 
his profession. 

5. If a soldier shall be discharged on reduction or disbandment 
of liis corps after a service of fourteen years, but under twenty-four 
years in the cavalry, or twenty-one years in the infantry, he may, at 
the discretion of the commissioners, be allowed the gratuity speci- 
fied in article 46 of these regulations; and shall be eligible to 
re-enter the service, according to the rule laid down in article 41. 

6. Serjeant-major, quarter-master-serjeants, troop serjeants-major, 
colon r-serjeants, Serjeants and corporals, shall have their pensions 
computed at the same rate as privates, with the following addition 
for every year of service as non-commissioned officers, viz. 

Serjeants-major 2|d. ] - - - f 2s. 4d. 

duarter-master ) q , | Total pension for service not I Oc Pd 

Serjeants \ * ^ to exceed - - { ^ ' 

Serjeants Id. | - - - | Is. lOd. 

Corporals O^d. J - - - [ Is. 4d. 

Provided always that the non-commissioned officer shall have 
served twenty-four years in the cavalry, or twenty-one years in the 
infjintry, and shall have been discharged as a non-commissioned 
officer, having served, without interruption, as such for the three 
years immediately preceding his discharge. And no non-commis- 
sioned officer shall receive the aforesaid superior rates, if discharged 
whilst holdinsf an inferior rank. 

The period during which any soldier may have been employed 
as an acting /awcc-serjeant or corporal, shall not be allowed to 
reckon as non-coinmissioned officers' service. 



i 






PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 



159 



A soldier exchang^inof from cavalry to infantry, or from any 
rearjilar service, shall reckon his service accordinsf to the regula- 
tions applicable to the corps in which he may be serving when 
discharofed. 

[When a non-commissioned officer is discharofed at his own 
request, a diminution of t\vopnce a day shall be made in all ranks, 
from the- rate of the pension to which he would otherwise, according^ 
to the scale in this article, be entitled for actual service.]^/-/. 6, 
by order of the king'^ signified to the secretary at war, July 30. 
1830, i/ U 

Second Class. Wounds received in action. 

7. The daily rates of pensions for wounds or injuries received in 
action are to be governed by the rules contaitied in the following 
schedule: viz. 



rank. 


First Degree. 


Second Degree. 


Third Degree. 


Fourth Degree. 


Men losing two 
limbs, orb'ilheyes, 
from wounds, or 
being so severely 
wounded as to be 
totally incapable 
of earning a liveli- 
hood, and to re- 
quire the assist- 
ance and care of 
some other person. 


Men rendered in- 
capable of earning a 
livelihood, b;it not 
requiring the care of 
ano.her person 


Men able to con- 
tribute in a small 
degree towards u 
livelihood. 


Men able to con- 
tribute materially 
towards a liveli- 
hood, althougii un- 
fit for the ordinary 
duties of the ser- 
vice. 


Serjeant 
Corporal 
Private 


From 
s. d. 
2 6 
2 
1 6 


To 
s. d. 
3 6 
3 
2 


From To 
s. d. s. d. 
2 3 
16 2 
10 16 


From 
s. d. 
1 6 
1 
9 


To 
s. d. 
2 
1 6 
1 


From 

s. d. 

1 
9 
6 


To 

s. d. 
i 6 
1 
9 



8. In cases of severe wminds or injuries received in action, the 
pension shall be fixed, accordiriir to the rates in the foregoing sche- 
dule, by the commissioners of Chelsea hospital, who will grant the 
lowest or the hiofhest, or any intermediate rate, according to the 
degree of the injury received, the length of the soldier's previous 
service, his character, or any peculiar circumstances attending his 
conduct at the time the wound was received. 

Third Class. Disabilities or injuries contracted on service^ 
after fourteen years'* service. 

9. Any non-commissioned officer or soldier discharged after 
fourteen years' service, but under twenty-four years in the cavalry, 
or under twenty-one in the infantry, for a permanent disability con- 
tracted by and in the service, may be awarded a 'permanent pension 
at the following rates, viz. 



160 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

A Serjeant, from 9d. to Is. 3d. 

A corporal, from 7d. to Is. Od. 

A private, from Od. to Os. 9d. 
Provided that the Serjeant or corporal shall have served at least 
^ye years in the rank he holds when discharged, and that the 
Jisability was not occasioned by any want of proper care on his 
own part. But unless the injnry for which the soldier may have 
been discharg^ed be considered by the commissioners to be yerma- 
nenlj he shall be awarded a conditional pension only, at their 
discretion. 

I presume the period of ^'-Jive years'^ mentioned in this article, 
must be uninterrupted. 

The term " conditional pension" implies that the soldier shall be 
liable to occasional examinations, and that the bounty of govern- 
ment is not intended to be allowed for a longer period than the 
actual existence of the disability for which he was considered 
disqualified for the service and discharored. 

In the French army, all persons who have been pensioned on 
account of disabilities under twenty years' service, are held liable 
to be examined annually by medical officers until they reach fifty 
years of age, for the purpose of ascertaining whether they continue 
disabled. Those who recover have the option of joining the army 
or not, but the pension ceases if they remain at home. It would 
appear that a considerable portion of the Chelsea pensioners do not 
labour under disabling infirmities. Of about 26.000 pensioners 
that were in Ireland in 1828, 6000 were, upon examination, found 
fit for service in the field or in a garrison ; and when the pensioners 
who receive less than one shilling per day in Great Britain were 
examined early in 1831, from one third to one half of the whole 
number were found fit for military duty. In one station of 1300 
pensioners which were inspected, 600 were returned fit for duty. 
The most surprising recoveries had taken place. Men who had 
been discharged as blind were restored to sight, the deaf heard, 
and the lame ceased to halt. 

- 10. The precise amount of pension for permanent disabilities 
afier fourteen years' service shall be regulated at the discretion of 
the commissioners of Chelsea hospital, according to the time the 
soldier may have served ; the cli?nate in which he may have been 
serving; the degree of the disability as affecting his means of earn- 
ing a livelihood, and his good conduct whilst serving ; but no 
pension shall be granted on account of disability, if it has been 
occasioned by vice, intemperance, or misconduct. 

Fourth Class. I. Disabilities under fourteen years' service. 

11. Any non-commissioned officer or soldier discharged under 
fourteen years' service, in consequence of disability contracted in 
and by the service, and not from a want of proper care on his part. 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 161 

may, at the discretion of the commissioners, be awarded a tempo- 
rary pension^ accordino^ to the following scale : 

Under 14 years, and above 10 years' service; a temporary pen- 
sion of 6d. a day for a period extending: from two to three years. 
Under 10 years, and above 7 years' service; 6d. a day from one tft 
two years. Under 7 years' service ; (3d. a day from one to eighteen 
months. 

In special cases, where a gratuity in money, proportioned to the 
length of the soldier's service, may be considered more advantageous 
to his interests than a temporary pension, a sum varying from i^l 
to 18 may be given him, as a commutation, under the authority 
of the secretary at war, if the soldier be discharged without being 
exaniined by the commissioners, or under their authority, if exam- 
ined by them. 

12. In extreme cases of disability or injury, under fourteen years* 
service, resulting from military duly, or the effects of climate, the 
temporary pension of 6d. a day may, under extraordinary circum- 
stances of severe sufferinir from service, be autrmented to 9d. and 
renewed for a specific period, at the discretion of the commissioners* 
but these cases shall be deemed special, and registered as such, with 
the s^roiinds on which they have been decided. 

13. In all special cases when pensions on account of disabilities 
or accidents are trranted, and likewise when pensions are refused, 
or claims are deemed to be forfeited, the decision of the comnjission- 
ers, with the ^{rounds thereof, shall be comn)unicated to the secretary 
at war, in order that the result may be notified to the regiment from 
which the soldier was discharged. 

14. The decision of the commissioners in fixing the rate of 
pension granted flir service, wounds, or disabilities, shall he finaly 
and the amount of the pension shall not be augmented on account 
of alleii^ed increase of disability, after the soldier shall have left the 
service, unless any spenal circumstances shall occur and be brought 
forward within two years after the original grant of pension, to jus 
tify a reconsideration thereof. 

II. Special cases of disability or injury. 

15. No soldier shall be discharged for the loss of one eye only, 
whether it be the rifrht or left. 

16. If a soldier shall have lost one eye by a wound, and shall 
receive other wounds or injuries in action, which render his dis- 
charade necessary, the loss of an eye may be taken into consideration 
by the comujissioners, in fixins" the pension at such a rate as his 
service and disability combined may, in their judgment, entitle him 
to receive. 

17. In cases in which an eye shall have been lost by the efi'ecfs 
of service, and not by wounds, the loss may be considered by the 
commivSsioners, at their discretion, in a{)portioning tlie rase oi p-n- 
sion. 1( under fourteen years' service, the loss of an eye may be 



162 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERST. 



taken into consideration, and a temjwrary pension, or a grntnifyr 
be t/ranted, accordincr to the scale laid down in the 11th and 12tb 
articles of these reofulations. 

18. In case a soldier shall become totally blind from unavoidable 
causes, clearly attributable to service alonej and not occasioned by 
vice, intemperance, or other misconduct, he may be allowed a pen- 
sion varyini{ according to the follownig scale, viz. 

Serjeant, having served as a non-commissioned officer ten years, 
and not less than five years as a Serjeant, from Is. 3d. to 2s. ; cor- 
poral, havincj served as such for seven years, from Is. to Is. 3d.; 
private from 9d. to Is. 

If the soldier shall have served more than fourteen years, and is 
discharged with a good character, and with a constitution impaired 
by the effects of colonial service, an increase not exceedinsf 3d. 
a-day may be added to the aforesaid rates; but the precise rate 
shall be determined at the discretion of the commissioners, accord- 
ing to the principles laid down in article 10 of these reg^ulations. 

19. Whenever a case of total or partial blindness shall be involved 
in so much doubt, as to have been reported by a court-martial or by 
a medical officer to be a ^^ si/spictotis case,^^ the commissioners shall 
deal with it as to them may seem most just ; but in every case in 
which it is proved that a soldier has tampered with his eyes, or 
that his loss of sight has been caused by vice, intemperance, or 
other misconduct, and that his character is bad, instead of being- 
discharo^ed on a pension, he sfiall be detained in an eye infirmary^ 
or shall be sent home to his parish, or dismissed without a pension. 

20. Except in extreme cases of disability, no infantry soldier 
shall be discharored for rupture alonej should a ruptured soldier 
be discharored before he has served fourteen years, his case shall 
be considered according to the 11th and \Zih articles of these 
regulations. 

See page 97. The number of cases of rupture which require 
to he discharged from the army during peace appears to be very 
small. 

21. Any cavalry soldier who shall be discharged under fourteen 
years' service for a rupture which would not disable him for 
infantry service, may, at the discretion of the commissioners, 
either be transferred to a veteran or garrison battalion or company, 
or be allowed a temporary pension or gratuity, according to arti- 
cle 11. 

III. Forfeiture of pension. 

22. Any pensioner refusing to serve, or not appearing when 
called upon by the commissioners, or oiher lawful authority, shall 
forfeit his pension, unless a satisfactory explanation be subsequently 
given; btU no pensioner who has actually served twenty-fosr 
years in the cavalry, or twenty-one years in the infantry, shall be 



i 




. PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 163 

'able to be called upon to serve. And any pensioner who najjlects 
to draw his pension for four successive quarters shall be stn^ck 
off the pension list, and shall not be replaced, unless he shall 
satisfactorily account for such omission ; and the commissioners 
shall, at their discretion, grant or withhold the arrears, or any 
portion thereof. 

23. Every soldier convicted by a court-martial of beinof a deserter, 
may, in addition to any other punishment awarded by the court, be 
sentenced to forfeit all claiaj to pension. Such sentence shall, m 
all cases, be recorded on the discharge sent to the commissioners of 
Chelsea hospital, but if, after such sentence has been passed, he 
shall have perf >rmed ^ood and faithful, or gallant service, he may 
be elitrihle for a pension, provided that he be recommended by 
his commanding officer, throu2:h the commander-in-chief, in con- 
formity with the rules laid down in the mutiny act and articles of 
war. 

Mutiny act, clause 9. This clause will, no doubt, have a suit- 
able effect in impressina; upon a soldier the serious nature of the 
crime of desertion, and at the same time hold out the stronijest 
inducement to reformation, by convincincr him that subsequent 
merit as a soldier may, at any time, on the recommendation of his 
commanding officer, relieve him from the penalty attached to his 
former crime. 

24. If a soldier shall have been convicted by the civil power of 
a misdemeanour, or by a court-martial, of any vicious or disgrace- 
ful conduct^ such as to render him unworthy of belonginof to the 
army, and consequently to be unfit for the military service, he shall, 
on bemiT discharged in consequence thereof, have the sentence, or 
cause of his dismissal from the service, recorded in his discharge, 
and sfiall forfeit all claim to pension. 

In order that the practical application of the words "disgraceful 
conduct," and offences of a ''disjjiaceful character," may he liable 
to tlie least possible misconception, and that soldiers guilty of 
unmilitury conduct, of neglect of duty, and of other otfences dis- 
tinctly specified in the articles of war, may not be tried under, and 
be subject to the penalties of this charge. I have to state that 
" discrraceful conduct" implies confiruK-d vice, and all unnatural 
propensities, indecent assaults, repeated thefts and dishonesty, 
ferocity in fiavins" maimed otfier soldiers or persons, self-mutilation, 
tampering with the eyes, and all cases of confirmed malingering 
where the conduct is proved to be so irreclaimably vicions, as to 
rendfT the offender unworthy to remain in the army. War Office 
Circular^ No. 643. 

25. Any soldier convicted before a competent court-martial of 
feignitig or 'producing disease or infirmity^ or of miiterially 

injuriuir his health by habitual drunkenness^ or of beitiij detained 
in hospital by any disease contracted by his own vice or intemper- 



161 MARSHALL ON- THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



mice, thereby renderincj himself unfit for service, or of absenting' 
himself from an hospital whilst under mr;dical treatment, or of 
beinor aujlty of a jrross violation of the rules of the hospital, or of 
intentionally protractinof his cure, or of wilfully ogirravatino: his 
disease, shall be liable to be brou^jht to trial by the regimental 
commandini{ offirer, or on chartJ^es preferred by the surgeon of the 
hospital, and to have the whole time of such detention in hospital 
deducted from his service, or of forfeiting all claim to pension, pro- 
vided such forteiture form part of the sentence of the court-martial 
by which he was convicted. 

The purport of this article is thus stated in the articles of war: 

" Any soldier who shall be convicted of malingering, feigning, or 
producing disease or infirmity absence from hospital protracting 
cure, &c. shall be tried for disgraceful conduct, and be liable to the 
punishujents attached to that offence." {Articles of War, 1830, 
art. 40.) 

To suppress malingfering among soldiers is an important part of 
the duty of a medical officer, but in the performance of this duty 
he must be guided by just principles. He should never adopt harsh, 
arbitrary, or unauthorised pn^eedings. He is not of his own 
authority warranted in employing restraint or coercion. When, 
after due caution in deliberation, and patience in investigation, a 
mndical officer is convinced that a soldier is feigning a disability, 
and when he has patiently and perseveringly, but without success, 
endeavoured to persuade him to perform his duty, he should report 
the case to the commanding officer, with his reasons for believing 
the man to be an impostor. The case is then, in some respects, 
out of the hands of the medical officer; all further mea-sures must 
be directed by the commanding officer, with whom the responsibility 
rests. 

When an alleo-ed malinoferer perseveres in a course of imposition, 
he is, as directed by the article in question, occasionally tried by a 
courf-rnartial. Dr. Cheyne sugcrests, that, as a preliminary measure, 
a miliuiiferer sliould be examined by a board of at least three medi- 
cal officers of mature experience, and that, according to their report, 
the final measures should be directed. In such cases would it not 
be advisable to have one or more experienced medical officers on a 
court-martial? All commissioned officers of the army on full pay 
are elicrible to sit on courts-n)artial, surgeons, and assistant-sur- 
geons heincr compet(^nt as mnmbers of such courts, although the 
custom and convenience of the service forbids recourse being had 
to (h -m except in extreuie cases. {Simmons on Courts-Martial, 
pair"-' 36.) 

TliH crime of " malingerin<r, feigning, or producing disease or 
infiruiiiy," vvas, I believe, not included in the articles of war until 
1830. In the military codes of other nations it has been long 
comjirehended. The Romans were at great pains not to "give 
occasion to cowards or sluggards to counterfeit sickness, therefore 



I 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 165 

such as were found to have done so, were, of old, ordained to be 
punished as traitors. Nay, whosoever mutilated (heir own or their 
children's bodies, so as thereby designedly to render them unfit lor 
carryinsf arms, were adjudged to perpetual exile." {Bruce, Institn- 
iion.9 of Military/ Law.) By the Dutch articles of war, as early as 
1717, counterfoitinsr sickness was punished by disciiarging a soldier 
with disgrace, and deprivinor him of the privilegfes he would have 
been entitled to had he conducted himself correctly. 

26. Any soldier maimed by the firing off of his rnusket, or by 
other means, and who thereby becomes unfit for service, whether 
the injury occurred on or off duty whether aecideniaUy or inten- 
tionally^ shall, in all cases, be tried by a district court-martial, as 
soon after the event as possible; and if it shall be proved before 
such court that the injury was the unavoidable result of niilitary 
service, and was in no way attributable to design, negligence, 
drunkenness, or misconduct on his part, the court may recommend 
the soldier for a pension, stating the proofs adduced, and the 
grounds of their recommendation, or of their rejection of the claim, 
as the case may be. The finding of the court, and the confirma- 
tion of the commanding officer, must invariably be annexed to the 
discharge, and adverted to therein ; but the final decision upon the 
claim to pension shall in all cases which are brought before the 
Chelsea board rest with the conunissioners. Rules and Articles 
1830, articles U, 42, 77. 

27. Any soldier who shall be disabled or mutilafed by an acci- 
defit, which did not happen in the immediate execution of some act 
of military duty, or which, if it did so happen on duty, was owing 
to his own negligence, shall not be entitled to a pension, although 
he be discharged for such disability. 

His claim in such case can only be considered with reference to 
the service he may have performed, or to the iconnds he may have 
received in action, or to tlie goodness of his character. The find- 
ing of the district court-martial, stating the whole of the circum- 
starices of the case, must be annexed to the discharge. The com- 
missioners will exercise their discretion in grantiuir or withholding 
a pension, but in no case shall a permanent pension be srantfd for 
such accidental injury, unless the soldier has served above fourteen 
years. If the soldier shall be ordered to be discharofed at the rt'gi- 
ment, his majesty's pleasure, and the amount of any gratuity, will 
be signified by the secretary at war. 

If it shall appear to the court that the injury or mutilatitm was 
not the etfect of accident, but of design, the soldier shall not be 
discharged, but shall be employed in such regimental or garrison 
duty or work, as the commander-in-chief may direct. Rules and 
Articles 1830, articles 41, 42, 77. 

28. If a pensioner be guilty of gross violence or outrage towards 
the persons errjployed in paying the pensioners, he shall be punished 
by the loss either of a part or of the whole of his pension, at the 



166 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

discretion of the commissioners, in addition to any other punishment 
which the law may inflict for such offence. 

29. If a pensioner be discovered to have received credit for a 
lon-rer period than he actnally served, by a false entry, Qlteraiion^ 
or erasure^ in any reo^imental book or docunjent, or by a 'misrepre- 
sentation of his claims, or to have obtained throngk any other 
means a higher rate of pension than he was entitled to at the time 
of his discharafe, when he was sworn to the truth of his stateuient 
of services, such pensioner, in the event of the commissioners deci- 
dina^ that he was coo^nizant of the fraud, or jifuiltyof the concealment 
of the truth, shall forfeit his pension ; and if a pensioner shall 
commit (\\)y felotiions actj or practice any gross fraud, which shall 
be proved to the satisfaction of the commissioners, they shall either 
strike him ofl* the pension list, or reduce the rate of his pension at 
their discretion. In all cases of over issue, the pensioner shall have 
his pension lowered to the true rate, and shall by a stoppage from 
his pension refund either the whole amount overissued, or such 
part thereof, as the commissioners may think proper to direct; but 
if the overissue oriijinated in any error of computation over which 
the soldier could have no control, the pensioner shall not be called 
upon to refund any part thereof 

If a non-commissioned officer or soldier be privy to the making 
of any false entry, or producing any fraudulent document, either as 
recrards his own services or those of any other person, he shall, on 
conviction thereof, before a competent court-martial, be rendered 
incapable of receivinsf a pension, according to the provisions of the 
mutiny act and articles of war. 

30. If any pensioner shall apply to any parish for relief for 
himself or family.^ or shall suffer his family to become chargeable 
to the parish, his pension, by the acts of parliament of 59 Geo. III. 
cap. 12, and 6 Geo. IV. cap. 27, will be payable to the parish 
officers, accordintr to the provisions of the said acts. 

31. Any pensioner or other person, who shall knowingly person- 
ate or falsely assume the name or character of a soldier, who is, 
or may become entitled to a pension, or shall falsely pretend to be 
the heir, administrator, or assignee^ of a pensioner or soldier, for 
the purpose of fraudulently obtaining money or effects, or shall 
knowinofly and wilfully assist in forcing or counterfeiting the name 
or handwriting of any such pensioner or soldier as aforesaid, or in 
forcring any document relating thereto, is liable, on being legally 
convicted thereof, to be transported as a felon, according to the act 
7th Geo. IV. cap. 16, clause, 38, (1826.) ^ 

32. Any pensioner imprisoned in a jail by order of a magistrate, 
as a vagrant, or as having committed any misdemeanour, or crime, 
if he assumes a false 7?ame, whether he be convicted or not of the 
offence for which he was apprehended, shall, on proof of such con- 
cealment of the true name under which he was pensioned, have 
his pension suspended, reduced, or altogether taken away, at the 
discretion of the commis.sioners. 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 167 

And if any pensioner ^ives a false statement as to his place of 
residence, or, for a fraudnlont purpose, draws his pension at a place 
different from that where he nsnally resides, he sfiall he hahle to 
have Ins pension taken away, reduced, or siispended, at the discre- 
tion of the commissioners. 

33. N'n-coinmissioned officers and soldiers, who have forfeited 
their claims to pension in consequence of misconduct, shall have 
their nan)es, and the circumstances under which their pensions 
were forfeited, published in the orderly book of the retrjnient to 
which ihey helonired, and a memorandum of the fact shall be sent 
to their parislins by the commanding officer. 

[After the word parishes, erase the words, "by the commanding 
officer," and insert " by the secretary at war, as provided in the 
mutiny act and articles of war.J Art. 33. By order of the ki/ig, 
signijied to the secretary at ivar, July 30, 1830.//. H. 

By the 83d article, (Rules and Articles, 1830.) soldiers who have 
performed g-ood, faithful, or gallant service in his majesty's army, 
are, m addition to every benefit which the regulations of the service 
may entitle them to on discharge, to have their meritorious conduct 
notified to their respective parishes; and soldiers discharged for 
disgraceful coiiduct are equally liable to have their misconduct 
notified to their parishes by the secretary at war. His majesty's 
intention by this proceeding, (as well as by the power of restoring 
service forfeited for desertion,) is to give to every commanding officer 
the most powerful means of stiujulating the soldiers under his com- 
mand to good conduct, by the certainty that character and conduct 
will at all times be duly considered, and particularly at the termi- 
nation of a soldier's service. 

IV. Commutation of pensions. 

34. Pensiouers not being natives of the united kingdom, may 
have their pensions commuted for a sum of money, on his majesty's 
pleasure being signified to the commissioners of Chelsea hospital by 
the secretary at war; the money to be paid out of funds appropri- 
ated for the use of the said hospital. 

35. If a pensioner, being a, itative of the united kingdom, should 
1)6 desirous of settling abroad in any of liis majesty's colonies, his 
pension may be coinmnted \n the manner laid down in the prece- 
ding article. But if any pensioner shall have received a commuted 
allowance for his pension from the commissioners, and shall at any 
subsequent time fraudulently attempt to revive a claim to the pen- 
sion so commuted, he will be liable to be proceeded against under 
the act of parliament referred to in article 31. 

V. Rules in reckoning service. 

36. No soldier shall be allowed to reckon his service u ider eight- 
een years of age. 



168 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. jJ 

If a soldier at the time of enlistuienl shall njisrepresent or conceal 
his re;l a^^e, and his real aj^e be afterwards discovered, he shall in 
no case bonelit by such discovery; if, for instance, he swore that 
he was under eijfhteen years, allhouvh he was actually older, the 
aije specified on his attestation shall be the standard for calculating 
his service, and consequently his service under eiiihteen years of 
age, accordins: to such attestation, will not be allowed to reckon. 

37. The distinction between service in the East and West Indies, 
and service in any other part of his majesty's douiirjions, having 
ceased since the year 1818, as retrards the reckoning of service for 
pension, the same rule will apply as regards the claim to addi- 
tional pay^ which, in the case of men enlisted after the 3()th 
Nov(^mber, 1829, will only commence after fourteen years' service ; 
actually com[)leted. 

38. Any soldier may be transferred from one battalion to another 
of the same regiment, or he may be pernjitted to volunteer into 
another rejriment on the disbandment of his corps, or on its being 
ordered home from a foreign station ; but he shall not be liable to 
be drafted from one retjiment to another without his consent, unless 
by sentence of a court-martial. Pensioners wiio have not served 
twenty-one years, will be held liable to be called upon to serve in a 
veteran or garrison battalion, or in the militia, or in a regiment of 
the line within the limits of the luiited kingdom. 

39. Non-commissioned officers and soldiers shall not be allowed 
to reckon as service the period of imprisonment^ whilst under the 
legal sentence of a civil or luilitary court, nor the period of con- 
finement previous to trial, unless acquitted of the offence alleged 
ag-amst them, according to the provisions of the mutiny act and 
articles of war. 

40. If any person discharged from the army for disability, or for 
any other cause, shall subsequently re-enter the army, and shall, 
when questioned by the mas^istrate at the time of his being attested, 
conceal the fact, or misrepresent the cause of his former discharge, 
he shall not be allowed to reckon his past service, nor to receive 
any pension, if again discharged for disability. 

This article is intended to obviate a very serious evil, namely, tlie 
concealment of infirmities at enlistment. When a medical officer 
is informed that a recruit, lie may be called upot] to examine, lias 
been discharged on account of a disease or disability, he is put upon 
his guard, and is very cautious in approving him. Should a recruit 
not conceal or misrepresent the cause of his discharge, he will, on 
final approval, be allovved to reckon his former service as a cl^^ini 
for pension, even although he shall have received a teniporary 
pension, agreeably to article 11. 

41. If any soldier discharged on reduction or disbandmen' of 
his corps, shall not have the opportunity of immediate re-enlistment 
into any other corps, he shall, on re-enlisting within three years, 
be allowed to reckon his former service, provided that he shall not 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 16^ 

have passed the age at which disbanded soldiers may be allowed to 
re-enter the service and that he shall in every respect be eligible 
for the service. The man so re-enlisting mnst, at the time of being 
attested, declare his former period of service in the army, ordnance, 
or marines, and the cause of his discharge from his last corps ; but 
if he should fail to make such declaration of his previous service, 
so that it may be recorded in his attestaiion, he shall not be permit- 
ted to reckon it at any subsequent period. 

42. Pensioners who shall, under a proclamation of his majesty 
or other lawful authority, be called upon to serve in a veteran com- 
pany or battalion, or in the militia, or to be attached to a regiment 
of the line within the united kingdom, shall, in addition to their 
previous services, reckon such service, provided the period thereof 
shall not be less than one year. 

43. Any pensioner who voluntarily enlists into a veteran com- 
pany or battalion, or the militia, or who is appointed to be a district, 
barrack, gairison-se?-jeant, or a military c/er A:, or hospiial-stewardy 
or who is employed in any other military capacity, shall, when 
discharged, revert to his former pension, unless it be pronounced by 
competent authority to have been forfeited. If he shall have served 
ten years or more in any of the situations above mentioned, and 
shall have been discharged therefrom with a good character, or 
even if he shall have served less than ten years, and shall have 
been discharged under circumstances entitling him to special con- 
sideration, as a deserving soldier, his majesty's pleasure will be 
signified by the secretary at war, that such increase of pension may 
be granted, as the commissioners shall think fit; not, however, 
exceedinof in any case the rates specified in articles 4 and 6. 

44. The services of all soldiers at present in the army shall be 
accurately revised and balanced up to the 31st December, 1828, by 
the military boards established, and now sitting for the investigation 
of those services. The period of service which each man may be 
allowed to reckon to that date, shall be recorded and certified in 
words at length, by the particular board before which the exami- 
nation takes place, and such record shall be admitted by any other 
military board which may be hereafter assembled for deciding upon 
the soldier's claims, as the only correct statement of his service, to 
the tertnination of the year 1828, from and after which time the 
balance of every soldier's services shall be struck periodically, and 
under such instructions as his majesty may be pleased to give 
through the secretary at war. 

45. No soldier shall hereafter reckon as military service the time 
he may have previously served in his majesty's navy. 

VI. Conditions under which discharges may be obtained. 

46. His majesty having been pleased to direct that soldiers may 
be allowed to purchase or obtain their discharges, under certain 
conditions and limitations, the terms are to be regulated by the 
following scale, viz. 



170 



MAIISHALL ON THE ENLISTMENT, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 





For men s 


ervinii in the 


Period. 






Cavalry. 


Infantry. 


Uniler 7 years' > 
actual ervice y 


L. 30 


L. 20 






After 7 years' ditto . 


25 


18 


10 . 


21 


15 


\2 . 


15 


10 


14 . 


12 


5 


15 . 





Free discharge at home, 
and in addition ihr^e 
months' pay abroad. 


16 . 


Free discharge. 


Free discharge, and in 
addition three months' 
pay at home, and six 
months' pay abroad. 


17 . 


Free discharge, and three 


Free discharge, and in 




months' pay. 


addition six months' 
pay at home, and one 
year's pay abroad. 


18 . 


Free discharge, and six 


Free discharge, and in ad- 


and to 21 


months' pay. 


dition one year's pay at 
home, and one and a 
half year's pay abroad. 



[The orratuities shall be calculated at the respective rates of full 
pay of cavalry, of foot giiards, or of infantry, excludinor additional 
pay.] Ari. 46. Bi/ order of the kins^, signified to the secretary 
at ivar, July 30, 1830.//. H. 

Where grants of land in addition to free discharires can be made 
in the colonies, the precise terms of the grant, and the tuost advan- 
tageous mode of paying the gratuity of full pay, shall be clearly 
explained to the soldier before he receives his discharge, and shall 
be registered in the regimental records. When the soldier has. 
been settled three months, and is actually residing on his grant, 
and is industriously employed in clearing it, the governor, under 
authority from the secretary at war, may, in addition to the gra- 
tuity, authorise the issue of a quarter's pension at 6d. a day ; and 
may from time to time renew such issue for a period not exceeding 
in the whole one year. 

This is a highly important article, not only as regards soldiers 
individually, but also in respect to the discipline of the anuy. The 
beneficial effect of rendering an exit from the service less difficult 
than formerly, must be very considerable ; but perhaps it may 
eventually be deemed an expedient measure to shorten the time 
when a soldier may obtain a free discharge, and to give him a 
claim of right to leave the service after the expiration of the pre- 
scribed period. Any regulation which makes the yoke of perpetual 
servitude sit easier will tend to render obedience more cheerful, 
and by that means improve the discipline and efficiency of the 
army. In 1749, a bill was brought into parliament for limiting 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 171 

the time and conditions upon which soldiers njigfht be discharged 
the service, but it passed in the neg^alive. It appears to have been 
intended by this bill that a soldier who had served ten years might 
purchase his discharire by paying three pounds. The debate 
which to'jk place when the bill was before the house is very inte- 
restinof. One member observed, that, "as long as soldiers are 
hsted for life, the service will always be despicable in the eyes of 
the people, and none but the most abandoned or the most thought- 
less will enter into it." Another said, "it is despair that renders 
our common soldiers generally so idle and dissolute; offer them 
but a view to h'eedom give tfiem a prospect, though a distant one, 
of their becoming a part of the people and you will see a remark- 
able, a happy change in the behaviour of the army." 

During the last war, before a dragoon could obtain a discharge 
from the army, his friends required to furnish three approved sub- 
stitutes. 

47. Soldiers who have actually served twenty-one years in the 
infantry, or twenty-four in the cavalry, and who being fit for ser- 
vice, are discharged at their own request^ may be allowed a pen- 
sion of lOd. a day, as shown in Article 4. 

48. But in all cases of soldiers allowed to purchase discharges 
or to obtain free discharges^ or pensions on discharge at their own 
request^ (if they have served the requisite period,) the number of 
men to be annually discharged, and the selection of the individuals, 
shall be governed by such instructions as the commander-in-chief 
may orive from time to time, or the master-general of the ordnance 
for that department, for extending or limiting the nunjbers, or 
wholly suspending the permission, according to circumstances. 

Provided that in all the aforesaid cases a period of not less than 
thirty days shall elapse between the soldier's application, and the 
commanding officer's consent to recommend the discharge; this 
interval being allowed for the express purpose of giving the soldier 
sufficient time for due deliberation. At the same time it shall be 
clearly explained to him what prospect of permanent pension he 
will forfeit, in consequence of accepting a free discharge at his own 
request. 

But nothing in this regulation is to be construed, as giving any 
right to a soldier to claim his discharge by purchase or otherwise, 
it being intended as an indulgence to be conferred upon the de- 
serving soldier, in proportion to his good conduct, and the length 
of his service. 

It seems highly desirable that the principle on which soldiers are 
allowed free discharges should be still further extended, so as to ad- 
mit of their being discharged if they wish it after a service of eight, 
nine, or ten years. Experience has convinced the powers on the 
continent, that the system of binding a man during the whole course 
of his life to military subjection is contrary to every principle of 
economy and efficiency. An indefinite period of service, that is to 



1T2 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 

say, service as lon^ as health and strengfth remains, presents some- 
lh\\)<r apptillinij to a reflecting mind. Recruits commonly enlist 
willioijt thoujjht or consideration, or from sheer necessity, but re- 
gret and dejection frequently follow, and, as there is no definite 
period at which their en<;au:ement is to terminate, the influence of 
hope, which is necessary for the efficient execution of any duty, 
becomes annihilated, and a slate of mind succeeds, by no means 
favourable either to sound health or military subordination. The 
natives of France appear to have great reluctance to unlimited ser- 
vice in the army. M. Dupin {Force Militaire de la Grand Bre- 
tagne) says, with reference to the recruits who enlisted in this 
country in the year 1814, " Que penser ensuite des classes itiferi- 
eures dUini pewple dont les neiif dixicmes des enroles engagent 
pmir jamais leur liberU.^'' Hnlistment for life, I believe, never 
was adopted in France; the period of engagement has varied con- 
siderably, and been successively three, four, six, eight, and by the 
ordonnance of March 1832, it is seven years. A soldier may re- 
enlist or extend his services for a period of from two to five years, 
when they become entitled to a hio^lier rate of pay. But soldiers 
who wish to remain in the army commonly re-engage as substi- 
tutes for seven years, and by this means obtain a premium of from 
L.60 to L.80, being on an average about L.IO a year in addition 
to their pay. \v\ 1810, an act was passed, under which recruits for 
the European force of the Honourable the East India Company, 
amountino^ to about 14,000 men, might enlist either for life, or a 
limited service of twelve years, and with respect to the native force, 
amounting to about 190,000 men, they may obtain their discharge 
during a period of peace at their own request, after having served 
three years, but during war they have no claim to be discharged, 
after having served any period. In the United Stales of America 
the period of enlistment for the regular army is five years. 

A recruit who enlists for a definite period, or whose engagement 
permits him to claim his discharge, after a term of years, reserves 
the right of resuming, at a given time, the place he occupied among 
his fellow citizens, and thereby retains some prospect of his liberty. 
The condition and duties of a soldier require the stimulus of hope 
a hope of having it in his power to retire from the service with 
credit and respectability, at a time of life when he is able to resume 
the employment of his early years. Hitherto parents have shown 
much reluctance to permit their sons to enlist ; but I have no doubt 
that the unwillingness would be partly obviated, were the facilities 
for quitting^ the service increased. By this means it is hoped the 
army would become somewhat more popular, that a military feeling 
would be excited, discipline improved, obedience rendered more 
cheerful, and that hankering to quit the service, which is a most 
disabling infirmity, probably decreased. We cannot, however, ex- 
pect that a superior class of men will enter the army, namely, men 
with some degree of intellectual culture, and a fair character for 
correct conduct, until the condition of a soldier be greatly im- 



\ 

1 




PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 173 

proved ; for this purpose his situation would require to be rendered, 
in time of service, in present emohiment, in future provision, and 
in respectability, so desirable as to place him on a level in popular 
opinion with men of other employments. 

49. If any soldier purchase his discharge, or receive a free dis- 
charge at his own request, he shall have no claim to pension ; and 
should he subsequently re-enlist, he shall not be permitted to reckon 
his former service. 

50. With the view of rewarding meritorious soldiers when dis- 
charsfed, and of encouraging: good conduct in others whilst serv- 
ing, his majesty has been pleased to direct that a gratuity in addi- 
tion to the pension may in certain cases be given to one Serjeant or 
corporal, and one private, annually, in every regiment of an esta- 
blishment of 700 rank and file and upwards. 

The men to be recommended must have completed twenty-one 
years of actual service in the infantry, or twenty-four in the caval- 
ry; have never been convicted by court-.martial, and must have 
borne an irreproachable character, or have particularly distin- 
guished themselves in the service. 

The Serjeants must have served ten years, and the corporals 
seven years, in their respective ranks as non-commissioned officers, 
and must have been discharged as such. 

The gratuity to the sergeant shall be L.15 ; corporal, L.7 ; pri- 
vate, L.5. 

The names and services of the individuals receiving the gratuity 
shall be published in regimental orders, and sent to the parishes to 
which they belong, after the commander-in-chief shall have con- 
firmed the regimental commanding officer's recommendation, and 
after the commissioners of Chelsea hospital shall have notified to 
the secretary at war that the g^ratuities have been paid. 

In corps of a lower establishment that 700 rank and file, one in- 
dividual may be recommended every year for the above mentioned 
gratuity, to be selected by alternate years ; that is to say, one year 
a Serjeant or corporal, the next year a private. 

[Discharo^ed soldiers receiving a gratuity for meritorious con- 
duct^ shall be entitled to wear a silver medal, having on one side of 
it the words, " for long service and good conduct," and on the other 
side, in relief, the king's arms, with the name and rank of the sol- 
dier, and the year inscribed on the medal. The medal will be 
transmitted by the adjutant-general to the officer commanding the 
regiment, who will deliver it to the soldier on the parade, with the 
parchment certificate of discharge, on which the grant will be re- 
corded, as well as in the regimental orders, and in the register of 
soldier's services. 

If circumstances should prevent the discharged soldier from re- 
ceiving the medal at the regiment, it will be delivered to him 
through the adjutant general, at the board of the Chelsea commis- 
8 f 12 mar 



174 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

sioners.] Art. 50. By order of the Icings signified to the secre- 
tary at war, July 30, 1830. i/ H. 

51. In order to secure the interests of the soldier, at the close of 
his military service, a regimental hoard shall henceforward he as- 
sembled under the orders of the commander-in-chief, for the purpose 
of verifying^ the following particulars, before any soldier be recom- 
mended to be discharged. 

" In order to secure to the deserving soldier, when discharged, a 
provision proportioned to the length and nature of liis service, and 
to enable our commissioners of Chelsea hospital to carry into full 
effect our rules and regulations for the pensioning of soldiers, 
We do hereby order, that no soldier shall be discharged, whether 
for unfitness, or for any other cause, unless his services, conduct, 
character, and the cause of the discharge, be ascertained before a 
regimental board, to be held for the purpose of verifying and record- 
ini^: all these necessary particulars in the discharge, on which do- 
cument the decision of our commissioners of Chelsea hospital on 
the soldier's claim will be made. The board shall be composed, 
in all cases, o( three officers: the major, or second in command, 
shall be the president, and two captains shall be members; and 
all military persons who may be summoned by the president there- 
of are directed to attend, and give information to the board on the 
subject of their inquiry : such board is not competent to award 
any punishment or forfeiture of service, their duty being restricted 
to the faithful and impartial record of the soldier's services and 
conduct at the close of his military career; and they will be go- 
verned in this their duty by a reference to our rules, orders, and 
regulations for the pensioning of soldiers, which regulations shall 
be" produced before the board whenever it is assembled: When 
the board is assembled by order of the commanding officer, or other 
superior authority, the members thereof shall severally make the 
following declaration in the presence of the soldier whose case is 
under inquiry : 

I, A. B. do declare, upon my horiour, that I will duly and im- 
partially inquire i7ito the matters to be brought before this board, 
according to the rules and regulations of his majesty^s service^ 
and if any doubt shall arise, according to my conscience, the best 
of my understanding, and the custom of the service in like cases J^ 
Rules and Articles, 1830, page 34. 

1st. His services. The regimental records shall be produced, 
from which the board will make a report, stating the period of the 
soldier's service, the countries in which he has served, the wounds 
he has received, the battles, sieges, or campaigns, in which he was 
present, and any instances of remarkable bravery he may have 
displayed. 

2d. His character. The regimental records shall be referred to, 
and parole evidence be required from those officers of the corps, 
particularly the medical officers, and others who have had the best 



i 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 175 

Opportunities of witnevssinor the soldier's conduct in all situations. 
ir he shall have forfeited his service by the sentence of a court- 
martial, and shall not have had such service restored, the fact and 
cause of such forfeiture are to be stated ; and as the rate of pension 
to be awarded will be influenced by character ^ the board will, after 
the most careful investis^ation, report whether the soldier's conduct 
has been generally irood, bad, or indifFerent, in the terms best cal- 
culated to express their opinion, more especially directing their at- 
tention to the latter years of his service. 

3d. His disability. The board is to specify the nature, degree, 
and cause of the disability, in their report, and to affix to it the re- 
port from the medical officer, stating the origin and progress of 
such disability, the manner in which it was contracted, the conduct 
of the man whilst in hospital, and the degree of his unfitness for 
military service, in order that no soldier may be discharged as dis- 
abled, unless the disability shall be ascertained to be such, as in all 
probability to disqualify him peruianently for military service. 

4th. His accounts and claims. The board will ascertain and 
report upon all just demands of pay, clothing, (fee. and before the 
soldier leaves the regiment, the settlement of his accounts is to be 
certified in his discharge, and signed by him. 

But no soldier shall be examined before a regimental board, with 
a view to his discharge for disability, unless he shall have been 
previously inspected by the general, or other superior officer in 
command, by whose orders the regimental board will be convened. 

The board shall be composed of three officers : A field officer, or 
the second in command, shall be the president, and two captains 
shall be members. When the report of the board shall have been 
confirmed by the officer commanding the regiment, the president 
shall fill up the discharge, according to the substance of the regi- 
mental board's proceedings. The discharge shall then be signed 
by the president, and countersigned by the commanding officer, 
and be transmitted, together with a certified copy of the court's pro- 
ceedings, to the adjutant-general, through the general or other offi- 
cer commanding on the station. 

52. In any case of disability, requiring the soldier personally to 
appear before the commissioners of Chelsea hospital to obtain a de- 
cision upon his claim for pension, the soldier in the first instance 
will be ordered to the invalid depot at Chatham, or to the general 
hospital in Dublin, in order that the remarks of the military and 
medical authorities at those stations may be inserted in the dis- 
charge ; and on the day appointed for the commissioners to hold a 
board at Chelsea, or K^ilmainham, the principal medical officer, or 
the stafi'-surgeon who has had the soldier, whose case is before the 
board, under treatment at the general hospital, will attend, with an 
abstract of his professional observations on each man's case, when 
the board will decide upon the claim to pension. 

If the regimental investigation shall have been held abroad, the 
general, or superior ofllcer on the station, will, according to his 



176 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 

judgment, order the soldier to a convalescent station abroad, or to 
the invalid depot at Chatham. 

Upon the report of the mihtary and medical authorities at the 
invalid depot at Chatham, or at the general hospital in Dublin, the 
commander-in-chief will give the necessary orders for the personal 
appearance of the soldier at Chelsea, or Kilmainham, or for his 
joining the depot companies of his regiment, or for his final dis- 
charge, according to the circumstances of the case ; but no soldier 
who may have been sent from the invalid depot Chatham, or from 
the general hospital Dublin, to his regiment, on a medical report of 
his titness for duty, shall be returned to the said depot or hospital, 
until after the expiration of one year, unless specially directed to 
be so returned by. the commander-in-chief. 

[And whenever a decision shall have been given by order of the 
commander-in-chief, to retain a soldier in the service, proposed to 
be discharged, the case of such soldier shall not be again brought 
forward for discharge, until after the expiration of one year, dating 
from the last decision.] Art. 52. Bt/ order of the king, signified 
io the secretary at tear, July 30, 1830. H. H. 

53. If the case of the soldier be clearly such as not to entitle him 
to any pension, and that there is no necessity for his personal ap- 
pearance before the commissioners of Chelsea hospital, the pro- 
ceedings of the regimental board, and the discharge stating the 
grounds of the rejection of his service, shall nevertheless be sent to 
Chelsea : if the commissioners shall concur that the soldier has no 
claim, they will communicate their decision to the secretary at 
war, according to Article 13 of these regulations ; but if the com- 
missioners shall entertain a different opinion, they will make fur- 
ther inquiry. 

No discharge, to which a claim for pension may attach, shall be 
finally confirmed by the adjutant general's department, until the 
case shall have been decided upon by the commissioners of Chelsea 
hospital. 

[Recruits under three years' service, who, upon trial, have been 
proved to be never likely to be made good and eflicient soldiers, 
may be reported once a year after the summer half-yearly inspec- 
tion, for the purpose of being discharged, under such instructions 
as the commander-in-chief and the secretary at war may issue.] 
Art. 53. By order of the king, signified to the sea^etary at war, 
July 30, 1830.^. H. 

1 fear much that the permission granted in the last paragraph of 
this article is liable to be greatly abused. A great majority of young 
soldiers, more or less dislike the army during the period of drill ; 
and, until they become domesticated in a corps, "a recruit," says 
the Duke of Wellington, " must be constrained to serve the state 
according to his engagement, and must be taught and must be 
forced to learn how to serve in his station of soldier, how to keep 
his equipment in order, and, above all, to attain habits of obedience 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1829. 177 

and good order, and of respect and attention to his official supe- 
riors." Now, before a soldier can be thus far trained, his irregular 
habits and propensities must be checked, his inclinations thwarted, 
and his habits altered. Under this discipline some recruits or 
young- soldiers desert, others suffer in health, and not a few simu- 
late disabilities. In the French army, where the period of service 
is short and well defined, which is not the case in the British army, 
loss of health seems to be very prevalent amons: young conscripts. 
" Cette maladie (home sickness) etait surtout assez frequente dans 
I'armee Francaise parmi les jeunes gens que la conscription arra- 
chait du sein de leiirs families et de leurs plus cheres affections. 
* * * La discipline du corps, I'obeissance a laquelle les soldats 
sont astreints, les punitions. le changement de nourriture et de 
climat, contrastent singulierement avec la libertedont lis jouissaient 
auparavant."( Fac^e Mecum par le Chevalier Sarlandiere.) 

These circumstances will, in some measure, account for the 
great number of young soldiers who are brought forward under 
the sanction of this article for discharge, and who are lost to the 
service. Regimental officers are commonly not unwilling to pro- 
mote the dismissal of unpromising recruits, whether their alleged 
inefficiency arises from physical or moral causes ; but the dis- 
charge of one man may excite many to simulate unfitness for the 
service. I am therefore disposed to question the policy of render- 
ing the discharge of men under three years' service more easy than 
that of soldiers who have served a longer period ; this being a time 
when soldiers are much disposed to feign disabilities for the pur- 
pose of leaving the service. 

54. Lists of the soldiers allowed to purchase discharges, or ob- 
tain jjfree discharges, shall be periodically sent to the secretary at 
war, with the discharges themselves and other requisite documents, 
in order that an accurate register may be kept of this class of dis- 
charged men at Chelsea. 

55. Soldiers who obtain permission to be discharged at their 
own request for length of service and good conduct, as laid down 
in Article 46, and soldiers discharged in the colonies or garrisons 
abroad, as being disabled, if they have in both cases completed 
twenty-one years' service in the infantry, or twenty-four years in 
the cavalry, and are desirous of settling in such colonies, may be 
admitted on the out-pension list, without appearing personally be- 
fore the commissioners of Chelsea hospital, provided that the re- 
commendation from the officer commanding on the station, with 
the reports and discharges, shall be transmitted throucrh the com- 
mander-in-chief to the secretary at war, who will signify his ma- 
jesty's pleasure to the commissioners for the pensioning of any sol- 
dier, without his appearing personally before them, at such rate of 
pension as they may determine ; and until such decision shall be 
received abroad, the soldier will continue to draw his full pay, 
without allowances ; but in all these instances the soldier's case 



178 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



shall be investigated, and his claim to pension regulated according 
to the 51st and 52d articles of these ret^nlations. 

55. Any soldier discharged lohile servi?ig abroad, shall, if the 
superior authorities on the spot think fit, and th(^ good condnci of 
the soldier justifies the induljrence, have the option of receiving 
assistance by a grant of land, to become a settler in the colony in 
which he may be servino^, as regulated in Article 46, or of being 
sent to Great Britain or Ireland, free of expense ; in the latter case 
he shall receive the rej^ulated marching money, from the place of 
his being landed, to the parish or place in which he was originally 
attested, or to sucli other place as he may choose, provided no addi- 
tional expense be incurred. 

VII. Deductions to which the pensioner is liable. 

57. The only deduction to which pensioners shall be liable 
from their pension, is one shillino^ in the pound, as heretofore di- 
rected by the act of the 28th of George II. and no agent or clerk 
paying tlie pensioners shall demand or take from them any fee or 
reward, witfjout subjecting himself to the penalty of forfeiting his 
office, together with the sum of L.IOO, in conformity with the act 
of the 7th Geo. IV. cap. 16. 

[By an act relating to army pensions, of the 16th July, 1830, the 
secretary at war, with regard to pay and pensions, and the com- 
missioners of Chelsea hospital, with regard to prize money and 
pensions, paid by order of the commissioners, are respectively em- 
powered to issue any balance due to a deceased officer, soldier, or 
pensioner, when the amount does not exceed L.50, to the next of 
kin or legal representative of the deceased, without tlie production 
of letters of administration.] Art. 57, Bis. 

58. No person employed to pay the 'pensioners shall be allowed 
to charo^e more than three pence for the affidavit required to be 
transmitted quarterly to the secretary to the board of Chelsea hos- 
pital. 

59. Should a pensioner lose his instructions, and make an ap- 
plication for a fresh copy, he may be supplied therewith, on njak- 
ing affidavit of the circumstances under which the original was 
lost, and provided it shall be shown that the same had not been 
pledged, or improperly disposed of; but if the pensioner be proved 
to have taken a false oath, he shall be struck ofl^ the pension list. 
When new instructions are given, he shall be liable to pay for 
them a sum not exceeding two shillings and sixpence, nor less than 
one shilling. 

60. The commissioners shall, as heretofore, at their discretion, 
dismiss any in-pensioner from the hospital if guilty of misconduct ; 
and upon such dismissal they shall have the power of reducing the 
amount of the pension to which such pensioner was entitled on his 
admission, or of taking it away altogether. 

61. Whenever a grant of land is njade to a discharged soldier. 



4 



d 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1833. 179 

either in commutation of the pension, or in aid of his becoming a 
settler, he shall be exempt from the payment of any fees for such 
grant ; the terms upon which grants to soldiers and pensioners are 
to be made shall be governed by such instructions as his majesty 
may be pleased to give, through the secretary of state for the colo- 
nial department. 

62. Should any doubts arise, as to the true intent and meaning 
of any part of the foregoing regulations, his majesty's pleasure will 
be signified through the secretary at war. 
By his majesty's command, 

Henry Hardinge. 

[The foregoing amendments and alterations of the 6th, 33d, 
46th, 50th, 52d, 53d, and 57th articles were issued from the war 
office, in a circular under date the 30th July, 1830, and directed 
by the secretary at war to be affixed to the articles to which each 
respectively belongs in the pensioner regulations. On the first re- 
print of the warrant, these alterations are to be inserted in their 
proper places in the regulations, but the date of the alteration in 
the margin is to be retained.] 

III. Warrant regulating the grant of pension, alloiuance and 
relief to soldiers on their discharge from the Army. Dated 
7th February, 1833. 

WILLIAM R. 

Whereas we have judged it expedient to revise 
the warrant of our late royal brother, dated the I4th day of No- 
vember, 1829, for granting pensions, allowances, and relief to sol- 
diers on their discharge from our army as wounded, disabled, or 
invalided, and disbanded or reduced ; our will and pleasure there- 
fore is, that this our warrant shall be established and obeyed as our 
sole authority under which pensions, allowances, and relief, may 
be granted to discharged soldiers who shall be enlisted into our 
service after the first day of March, 1833, but that all non-commis- 
sioned officers and soldiers enlisted previously to that day shall, as 
regards their claim to pension on discharge, remain entitled to 
every benefit or provision which they can at present claim under 
any warrants or regulations which were in force at the time of their 
original enlistn)ent. 

A soldier enlisted for unlimited service cannot demand his dis- 
charge as a matter of right, either with or without a pension ; but 
discharge may be granted 

1. On account of incapacity for further service. 

2. In consequence of reduction of the military establishment. 

3. As an indulgence upon certain conditions. 

The commissioners of Chelsea hospital are charged with the 
application of those rules which are to govern the ordinary grants 
of pension, the amount of which shall in no case exceed the rates 



180 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



fixed by this warrant, and when once granted the amount cannot 
be increased by the commissioners. But the commissioners shall 
not, without the concurrence of the secretary at war, act upon any 
discharge which shall not have been completed according to the 
form prescribed by the secretary at war ; nor upon such discharge 
unless it be brou^jht before them within six months after the date 
on which the soldier shall have quitted the service. 

Such special deviations from those general rules as are herein- 
after expressed, or as may appear advisable to his majesty, will be 
made by the secretary at war, with whom alone it rests to interpret 
the true intent and meaning of any passage in the warrant or regu- 
lations on which a doubt may arise. 

The pecuniary benefits attaching under this warrant to cases of 
disability, are expressly and strictly to be limited to disability caus- 
ed in and by the service, and pensions are not to be bestowed upon 
those who have not acquired strong claims to them; or who, by 
want of proper care, or by vice, intemperance, or other misconduct, 
have rendered themselves incapable of further service. 

In exercising any discretion within the range of the allowances 
prescribed by this warrant, the points to be kept steadily in view 
are, the gallant conduct and good character of the soldier ; the 
length of his good and faithful services : the extent of that disa- 
bility which can fairly be ascribed to the effect of service only; 
and the degree to which it interferes with his power of earning a 
livelihood. 



i 



I. Permanent pensions. 

Wounds in action. Permanent pensions may be granted to 
men discharged in consequence of being rendered incapable of fur- 
ther service by wounds or injuries received in action, according to 
the following scale : 



RANK. 



First Degree. 



Men able lo contribute 
towards earning a live- 
lihood, although ren- 
dered by wounds unfit 
for the ordinary duties 
of a soldier. 



Second Deqree. 



Men rendered incapable 
by wounds, of earning 
a livelihood, but not re- 
quiring the aid of ano- 
ther person. 



Third Degree. 

Men losing two limbs or 
both eyes, from wounds, 
or being so severely 
woundt'd as to be totally 
incapable of earning a 
livelihood, and to re- 
quire the assistance and 
care of .some other per- 
son. 





From 


To 




8. d. 


s. d. 


Private, 


6 


9 


Corpora!, 


9 


1 


Serjeant, 


1 


I 6 



. d. 

1 
1 4 
1 10 



Frorn 
9. d. 
1 6 

1 10 

2 6 



To 
s d. 
2 

2 4 

3 



\n cases of extreme suffering from wounds received in action by 
non-coiumissioned officers or soldiers of long service, or of gallant 
conduct in the field, a sum not exceeding sixpence a day, may be 



^^" rtrt 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1833. 181 



granted at the recommendation of the commander-in-chief, by the 
conmiissioners, with the consent of tlie secretary at war, ^s his 
majesty's royal bounty, in addition to the pension which may have 
been awarded by the commissioners of Chelsea hospital. 

Blindness. Permanent pensions may be granted to men who 
shall become totally blind from unavoidable causes other than 
wounds, but clearly attributable to the military service alOne, ac- 
cordino^ to the following scale : Private, from 9d. to Is. ; Corporal, 
having served seven years as such, Is. to Is. 3d. ; Serjeant, having 
served as a non-commissoned officer ten years, and not less than 
five years as a serjeant, Is. 3d. to Is. lOd. 

If the soldier shall have served more than fourteen years in the 
infantry, or more than seventeen years in the cavalry, and be dis- 
charged with a constitution impaired by the effects of colonial ser- 
vice, besides being afflicted with total blindness, an increase to the 
above rates, not exceeding for a private threepence a day, and for a 
non-commissioned officer, fourpcnce a day, may be added by the 
commissioners with the consent of the secretary at war. 

No soldier shall be discharged for the loss of an eye only, whe- 
ther it be the right or the left ; but if a soldier shall have lo&t one 
eye by a wound in action, or by the effects of service, and shall 
receive other wounds or injuries in action, or be otherwise so disa- 
bled as to render his discharge necessary, the loss of an eye may 
be taken into consideration in fixing the pension at such a rate as 
his combined wounds or disabilities may entitle him to receive. 

Men unfit for the ordinary duties of a soldier^ after twenty-one 
years' service in the infantry, or twenty-four years in the cavalry. 
Permanent pensions, according to the following scale, may be 
granted to men, who having completed twenty-one years' actual 
service in the infantry, or twenty-four years in the cavalry, may be 
discharged in consequence of being rendered unfit for the ordinary 
duties of a soldier, by disabilities contracted in and by the service. 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 







From To 






s. d. s. d. 


Private. 




6 . . 1 ^ o.- = 








-^ c^'S 


Corporal . . 


Who shall have served con- 








tinuously as corporal live 




r3 ^1 rri 




years immediately preced- 







ing his discharge. . . 


8..1 KBt-Z'i^l 








c ^ 5^ S 


Serjeant, Co- 
lour Serjeant, 
Troop Ser- 


Who shall have served con- 
tinuously as a non-com- 
missioned oflficer five 




the mi 
y for e 
?d beyc 
ars in t 
aximui 


jeant Major. 


years, of which the three 




?" r <" S 




years immediately preced- 




O OJ 




ing his discharge shall 








have been as serjeanl. . 


10 . . 1 4 








- ^ ?j t'^ 


Ditto . . . 


Who shall have served con- 




S w > c 23 




tinuously as Serjeant five 




^^ S^ s 




years immediately preced- 
ing his discharge. . . 


1 0. . 1 6 


C 3 J= C 






1 .^ -. t- 


Quartermaster 


Who shall have served con- 


An addition to the 


Serjeant, Ser- 


tmuously as such three 


pension to which he 


jeant Major. 


years immediately preced- 


would have been enti- 




ing his discharge. . . 


tled as a Serjeant of 3d. 
a day for a quarter mas- 
ter Serjeant, andof 6d. a 
day for a serjeant major. 



By this warrant, a soldier's ordinary pension after twenty-one 
years' service is sixpence a day in lieu of one shilling, or tenpence 
if a man retired at his own request, by the warrant of 1829. Sol- 
diers who have served twenty-live years in the infantry are entitled 
by the warrant of 1829 to receive each a pension of Is. 2d., but by 
tile warrant of 1833, they will receive only 8d. Men who have 
served twenty-one years in the infantry, or twenty-four years in 
the cavalry, are well entitled to a pension, upon which they may 
be able to exist ; but a soldier who has been long accustomed to 
the pay and comforts of the army, is not able to live upon 6d. a 
day he must become a pauper. Recruits seldom think of pen- 
sions when they enter the army, but after ten or twelve years' ser- 
vice, this subject engages much of their attention ; and those who 
have enlisted since 1833, will be apt to draw comparisons, and to 
find that they have been less liberally dealt with than men who en- 
listed before that period. This circumstance tnay lead to ill hu- 
mour, discontent, and ultimately to malingering for the purpose of 
being discharged. In the event of the breaking out of a war, and 
a large augmentation of the army being necessary, a higher rate of 
pension will require to be granted not only to the men who then 
enlist, but to all the men in the service who have enlisted since 
1833. If I recollect rightly, the men who had enlisted for unlimited 
service previous to Mr. Windham's act were included in the new 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1833. 183 

rates ef pension given to men for limited service, and even the old 
pensioners had their rates raised. 

Men unjit to earn a livelihood after twenty-one years service in 
the infantry or twenty-four years in- the cavalry. If a man be 
discharjj^ed, not only as unfit for the ordinary duties of a soldier, 
afttr the above periods of service, but on account of permanent dis- 
abilities or injuries contracted in and by the service, so as to be 
permanently incapable of earniti^j^ a sufficient livelihood, an increase 
to the above rates not exceeding for a private, 3d. a day ; corporal, 
4d. ; Serjeant 6d. may be made by the commissioners with the con- 
sent of the secretary-at-war ; but the pension of a private shall in no 
case exceed one shilling a day, of a corporal one shilling ixud four- 
pence, of a Serjeant one shilling and tenpence, of a quarter master 
Serjeant two shillings and a penny, and of a serjeant major two 
shillings and fourpence a day. 

Men unfit to earn a livelihood, under txoenty-one years^ service 
in the infantry, or twenty four years in the cavalry. Permanent 
pensions may also be granted to men discharged on account of dis- 
abilities or injuries contracted in and by the service, which shall be 
so permanently prejudicial to their bodily exertions as to render 
them incapable of earning a sufficient livelihood ; according to the 
following scale : 

After fourteen and under twenty-one years' service in the infan- 
try, or after seventeen, and under twenty-four years' service in the 
cavalry: Private from 6d. to 8d ; corporal, having served seven 
years as corporal, from 7d. to 9d. ; serjeant. having served five years 
as serjeant, from 9d. to Is. 

These cases are, however, to be deemed special, and the pension 
is not to be granted by the commissioners without the consent of 
the secretary at war. 

The temporary pensions which may have been awarded by the 
commissioners of Chelsea hospital, under a subsequent clause of this 
warrant, to men discfiarged as unfit for the ordinary duties of a 
soldier on account of disabilities contracted in and by the service 
previoiisly to the completion of fourteen years' service in the infan- 
try, or of seventeen years in the cavalry, may, under extraordinary 
circumstances of extreme suffering, or of permanent incapaciiy to 
earn a sufficient livelihood, be made i)ermanenton the recommenda- 
tion of the commissioners of Chelsea hospital, by the secretary at 
war. 

Permanent pension on reduction. Permanent pensions may be 
allowed to men discharged without disability, in consequence of 
the reduction or disbandment of their regiments after a service of 
twenty-one years in the infantry, or of twenty-four years in the 
cavalry; but the rates shall in every case be within those granted 
by this warrant, to men dischari^ed as unfit for the ordinary duties 
of a soldier, and shall be proportioned to the length of the man's 
service, and his merits as a soldier. 

Pcr?nane}it pension as an indulgence. Soldiers of good cha- 



184 



MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



racter, who have served twenty-five years in the infantry, or twenty- 
eii^ht in the cavalry, may, although not unfit for the service, obtain, 
at their own request, their discharge and a permanent pension, not 
in any case to exceed for a private sixpence a day, for a corporal 
eightpence a day, and fur a serjeant tenpence a day. 

As to the indulgence of granting a permanent pension to soldiers 
of good character who have served twenty-five years in the infantry, 
or twenty-eight in the cavalry, I have only to observe, that very 
few soldiers have hitherto served these periods in the respective 
branches of the service. Long before twenty-five or twenty-eight 
years' service, they are in general completely unfit for duty, and 
discharged as worn out. 

In the following classes of troops and stations, the centesimal ratio 
of men above forty years of age, from 1st January, 1830; till 31st 
March, 1837, was as understated : 



Stations. 


Aggregate 
strength. 


Aggregate 
No. above 40 
years of age. 


Ratio per cent. 

above 40 years 

of age. 


Household Cavalry, 

Dragoon Gds. & Dragoons, 

Foot Guards, 

Mediterranean stations in- 
cluding Gibraltar, 

Bermuda, 

Jamaica, 

Canadas, 

Windward andLeeward com- 
mand, 

Nova Scotia and New Bruns 
wick, 


8,345 
43,163 
33,410 

53,196 

3,445 
16,653 
16,561 

30,413 
12,599 


570 
2,920 
2,035 

1,639 

79 
352 
346 

609 
241 


6.8 1 

6.7 

6.0 

3.0 

2.2 
2.1 
2.0 

2.0 
1.9 



Temporary pensions or gratuities in lieu thereof. 

Men unfit for the ordinary duties of a soldier^ under twenty-one 
years'^ service in the infantry^ or twenty four years in the cavalry. 
Men discharged previously to the com[)letion of twenty-one years' 
service in the infantry, or of twenty-four years' service in the cavalry, 
on account of their being unfit for the ordinary duties of a soldier, 
in consequence of a disability contracted in and by the service, may 
be allowed temporary pensions according to the following scale, 
viz. Under seven years' service, sixpence a day from one to 
eighteen months; above seven but under ten years' service, sixpence 
a day from one to two years; above ten but under fourteen years' 
service in the infantry, or under seventeen years in the cavalry, six- 
pence a day from two to three years; above fourteen but under 
twenty-one years' service in the infantry, and above seventeen but 
under twenty-four years in the cavalry, sixpence a day from three 
to five years. 

A non-commissioned officer, who shall have served continuously 




_ PENSIONING WARRANT 1833. 185 

at least three years in the rank he held when discharged, may be 
allowed an addition not exceeding for a corporal twopence a day, 
and for a seYie?iX\i four pence a day, to the temporary pension which 
would have been granted to him if he had been discharged as 
private. 

In severe cases of disability or injury resulting entirely from mil- 
itary duty, or from the effects of climate, under twenty-one years' 
service in the infantry, or under twenty-four years service in the 
cavalry, the temporary pension may be renewed by the secretary 
at war for such further period as the special Circumstances of the 
case may in his judgment warrant. 

In special cases where it may be considered more advantageous 
to the soldier's interest, that a gratuity in money, proportioned to 
the length of his services, and the duration of the temporary pension 
awarded, should be given instead of the temporary pension, a sum 
varying from L.l to L.30 may be allowed by the commissioners, 
if the soldier appear personally before them, or by the secretary at 
war, if the soldier be discharged without being examined personally 
by the commissioners ; but in every instance the gratuity shall only 
be paid to the soldier after his arrival at the place of his intended 
future residence. 

Temporary pension on reduction. Temporary pensions, or the 
gratuities in lieu thereof, according to the foregoing scales, may be 
also granted at the discretion of the commissioners to men discharged, 
without disability, for the convenience of the public service, in con- 
sequence of the reduction or disbandment of their regiments, after 
a service of fourteen but under twenty-one years in the infantry, 
or after seventeen but under twenty-four years' service in the 
cavalry. 

III. Discharges by indulgence. 

Soldiers of good character may be allowed to purchase discharges, 
or to obtain free discharge at their own request, if they have served 
the requisite period ; but the number of men to be annually dis- 
charged, and the selection of individuals, shall be governed by such 
instructions as the commander-in-chief, with the concurrence of the 
secretary at war, may from time to time give for extending or limit- 
ins" the numbers, or for wholly suspending the permission. 

In all cases of free discharge, a period of not less than thirty days, 
for the purpose of giving the soldier a sufficient time for delibera- 
tion, shall elapse between the soldier's application and the com- 
manding officer's consent to recommend the discharge ; and the 
prospect of permanent pension which the soldier will forfeit by ac- 
cepting a free discharge at his own request, shall be clearly explained 
to him. 

Soldiers may be permitted to purchase or to obtain discharge, at 
their own request, upon the following terms: 



186 



ETC. OF SOLDIILRS. 



Cavalry. 


Infantry. 


L.30 


20 


25 


18 


21 


15 


15 


10 


12 


5 


6 


- Free. 


Free. 


Free. 



Under 7 years upon payment of 

Above 7, - . . . 

10, . - . . 

12, .... 

14, .... 

15, .... 

16, .... 

When it is the intention of a soldier who has beerj permitted to 
obtain a free discharge, at his own request, to settle in any of his 
majesty's colonies, he may, if in good health, be allowed, in further- 
ance of that object, by the secretary at war, a gratuity proportioned 
to the length of fiis services, according to the following scale ; but 
this gratuity shall be paid to him only in the colony in which he 
proposes to settle, and in such manner and at such times, but within 
eighteen months after his arrival, as shall be deemed best for his 
interests by the general officer in command of the station, or by the 
governor of the colony; but the permission to settle in the colonies 
will of course be governed by the instructions of the secretary of 
state for the colonies. 

Cavalry. Infantry. To a private. To a Corporal. To a Serjeant. 



21 years. 


After 18 years. 


L.IO - 


L.15 - 


L.20 


22 


19 


- 


12 


18 


24 


23 


20 


- 


14 


20 


28 


24 


21 


- 


16 


24 


32 


25 


22 


_ 


18 


27 


36 


26 


23 


- 


20 


30 


40 


27 


24 


- 


24 


36 


48 



provided that, in the case of the corporal and serjeant, he shall have 
served continuously five years immediately preceding his discharge 
in the rank he held when discharged. 

Where grants of land in the colonies can be made in addition to 
free discharges, the precise terms of the grant, and the most advan- 
tageous mode of paying the gratuity, shall be clearly explained to 
the soldier before he receives his discharge, and shall be registered 
in the regimental records. When a soldier who has received a free 
discharge, with or without a gratuity, has been settled three months, 
and is actually residing on his grant, and is industriously employed 
in clearing it, the governor, under authority from the secretary at 
war, may authorise the issue of a quarter's pension at sixpence a 
day, and' may from time to time renew such issue for a period not 
exceeding in the whole one year. 

IV. Rewards for Meritor iovs Conduct. 

With the view of rewarding meritorious soldiers when discharged, 
and of encouraging good conduct in others whilst serving, his ma- 
jesty has been pleased to direct that a gratuity, in addition to the 



^" DP.nsini 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1833. 187 



pension, may in certain cases be given to one serjeant or corporal, 
and one private, annually, in every rej^iment of an establishn)ent of 
700 rank and file and upwards; and in recriments of a lower esta- 
blishment than 700 rank and file, one individual may be recom- 
mended every year for the above mentioned gratuity, to be selected 
by alternate years; that is to say, one year a serjeant or corporal, 
the next year a private. 

The men to be recommended must have completed twenty-one 
years of actual service in the infantry, or twenty-four in the cavalry; 
have never been convicted by court-martial, and must have borne 
an irreproachable character, or have particularly distinguished 
themselves in the service. The Serjeants must have served ten 
years, and the corporals seven years, in their respective ranks as 
non-commissioned officers, and must have been discharged as such. 
The gratuity to the serjeant shall be L.15; corporal, L.7; private, 
L.5. These gratuities will be paid under the directions of the 
secretary at war, to whom the commander-in-chief will notify the 
individuals selected, previously to their discharge; the names and 
services of the individuals receiving the gratuity shall be published 
in regimental orders, and the secretary at war will notify them to 
the parishes to which the men belong. 

Discharged soldiers receiving the gratuity for meritorious con- 
duct shall be entitled to wear a silver medal, having on one side of 
it the words "For Long Service and Good Conduct," and on the 
other side, in relief, the king's arms, with the name and rank of the 
soldier, and the year of his discharge, inscribed on the medal. The 
medal will be transmitted by the adjutant-general to the officer com- 
manding the regiment, who will deliver it to the soldier on parade, 
with the parchment certificate of discharge, on which the grant will 
be recorded, as well as in the regimental orders, and in the register 
of soldiers' services. 

[This rule is obviously impracticable in a great number of in- 
stances.] 

If circumstances should prevent the discharged soldier from 
receiving the medal at the regiment, it will be delivered to him 
through the adjutant-general at the board of the commissioners of 
Chelsea hospital. 

V. General Provisions. 

Medical exatnination of soldiers claiming pensio7is for dis- 
ability. In no case shall a soldier be pensioned for disability until 
his case shall have been reported upon by some other medical 
authority than the medical officers of the regiment to which he be- 
longs; and the principal medical officer or slafF-surgeon, who has 
had under treatment at the general hospital the soldier who is re- 
quired to appear personally before the commissioners of Chelsea 
hospital, or before the governors of Kilmainham hospital, will 
attend on the day appointed by the commissioners to hold a board 



18S MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 

nt Chelsea or ICilmainham, with an abstract of his professional 
observations on the man's case, when the board will decide upon 
the soldier's claim to pension. 

Personal appearance before Chelsea board dispensed with in 
certain cases. Soldiers wlio obtain permission to be discharju^ed to 
pension at their own request, for length of service and ^ood con- 
duct, and soldiers discharged as being disabled, if they have com- 
pleted twenty-one years' service in the infantry, or twenty-four 
years' service in the cavalry, may be admitted on the out-pension 
list without appearing personally before the commissioners of Chel- 
sea hospital, provided that the reports of the regimental boards and 
the discharges shall be transmitted through the commander-in- 
chief to the secretary at war, who will signify to the commissioners 
his majesty's pleasure for the pensioning of such soldiers without 
their appearing personally before the board, at such rate of pension 
as the commissioners may determine; but no soldier shall be pen- 
sioned by the commissioners without personal appearance, except 
under such dispensing authority conveyed to them by the secretary 
at war. 

Proceedings of commissioners to be reported to the secretary 
at war. Immediately after each board at Chelsea hospital, a re- 
turn shall be forwarded by the commissioners to the secretary at 
war, showing in detail the pensions which have been granted, and 
the claims which have been refused at the board. The secretary 
at war, on receiving the return, shall make such communications 
on the subject to the commanding officers of the regiments from 
which the men shall have been discharged, and to the parishes to 
which the men belong, as may in his judgment seem proper. 

Rules for reckoning service toioards pension. The date of 
attestation shall be the commencement of a soldier's service, which 
shall reckon towards pension from the age of eighteen only. The 
age specified in the attestation shall be taken to be the real age, 
and he shall in no case benetit by the subsequent discovery of any 
misrepresentation. His service shall be rekoned according to the 
rules applicable to the corps in which he may be serving when dis- 
charged. 

But he shall not reckon as military service any previous service 
in his majesty's navy, nor any period during which he shall not 
be entitled to pay, according to the provisions of the mutiny act. 

Service of non-commissioned officers. No non-commissioned 
officer shall, on his discharge, have any claim to the allowance or 
pension awarded to a corporal or Serjeant, except for continuous 
service immediately preceding his discharge in the rank he held 
when discharged: but if a Serjeant shall be discharged without 
having served continuously as serjeant the full period prescribed by 
this warrant to entitle him to the pension of that rank, he may be 
allowed to reckon as corporal's service the whole of his continuous 
service as a non-commissioned officer, to entitle him to the rate of 
pension allowed to the rank of corporal; and antecedent service as 



^B n nrn- 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1833. 189 



a non-commissioned officer in a rank from which he may have 
been reduced, may be specially admitted to reckon as part of his 
continuous service, provided it be established to the satisfaction of 
the secretary at war, that such reduction in rank was on account 
of the public service, and did not result from any irregularity or 
misconduct on the part of the soldier himself. 

The period during which any soldier may have been employed 
as an acting lance Serjeant or corporal, shall not be allowed to 
reckon as non-commissioned officer's service. 

Discharged men re-enlisting. A soldier discharged on the dis- 
bandment or reduction of his corps, shall, on being permitted to 
re-enlist within three years, reckon his former service, provided 
that at the lime of being attested he shall declare his former period 
of service, and the cause of his discharge from his last corps, so 
that they may be recorded in his attestation. 

A soldier who has purchased his discharge, or has received a free 
discharge at his own request, shall not, if he re-enlist, reckon his 
former service. 

A soldier discharged from the army for disability, or for any 
other cause, who shall on re-enlisting conceal the fact or misrepre- 
sent the cause of his former discharge, shall not be allowed to 
reckon his past service, or to receive any pension if again dis- 
charged for disability. 

A pensioner who shall, under a proclamation of his majesty, or 
other lawful authority, be called upon to serve in a veteran bat- 
talion or company, or to be attached to a regiment of the line within 
the United Kingdom, shall, on his discharge, reckon such service 
towards increase of pension, provided the period be not less than 
one year. 

A pensioner who voluntarily enlists into a veteran conjpany or 
battalion, or who is appointed to be a district, or barrack, or garrison 
Serjeant, or a military clerk, or hospital steward, or who is employ- 
ed in any other military capacity, shall not be entitled to reckon 
such service towards increase of pension; but if such pensioner 
shall have served ten years or more in a veteran company or bat- 
talion, or as district serjeant, and shall be discharged therefrom 
with a good character, or even if he shall have served less than ten 
years, and shall be discharged under circumstances entitling him 
to special consideration as a deserving soldier, an increase of pen- 
sion may be granted to him, not exceeding in any case the rates 
allowed by this warrant to men discharged as unfit for the ordinary 
duties of a soldier, upon his majesty's pleasure to that effect being 
signified to the commissioners of Chelsea hospital by the secretary 
at war. 

Forfeiture of pensio7i. A soldier forfeits all claim to pension 
who has been convicted by a court-martial of the crime of desertion ; 
of having wilfully maimed himself; or of having tampered with 
his eyes, or caused a total or partial loss of sight by his vice, in- 
temperance, or other misconduct ; of having made or of being 
8 g 13 mar 



190 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

privy to tlie makinof of any false entry, or of producing any fraudu- 
lent document, either as regards his own services, or those of any 
other person; and upon conviction by a court martial, or by a 
civil tribunal, of any vicious or dissfraceful conduct. 

If in either of the above cases tlie soldier shall, subsequently to 
such conviction by court-martial, Iiave performed good, faithful, or 
gallant service, he may, on the same being duly certified by the 
comu)ander-in-chief, be restored to the benefit of the whole or of 
any part of his service, upon his majesty's pleasure to that etfect 
being signified by the secretary at war. 

Non-commissioned officers and soldiers who have forfeited their 
claims (o pension in consequence of n)isconduct, shall have their 
names and the circumstances under which their pensions were for- 
feited, published in the orderly book of the regiment to which they 
belonged, and a memorandum of the circumstances may, at the dis- 
cretion of the secretary at war, be sent to the parishes to which they 
belong when the men are discharged. 

A pensioner shall be subject to forfeiture of pension under the 
following circumstances: For wilfully obtaining credit for more 
than his actual service, by means of false entries, alterations, or 
erasure in regimental books or documents, or by any misrepresenta- 
tion of his real claims- for the commission of any felonious act or 
gross fraud, proved to the satisfaction of the commissioners; for 
not appearing when called upon, according to the regulations and 
conditions of the service, by the commissioners of Chelsea hospital, 
or other lawful authority, to serve in a veteran or garrison battalion 
or company, or in a regiment of the line within the limits of the 
United Kingdom, or for refusing so to serve when required; for 
neglecting to obey the call of the magistrates, or other sufficient au- 
thority, to assist in preserving the public peace; for gross violence 
or outrage towards any person paying the pensioners; for assum- 
ing a false name when committed or imprisoned by the magistrates 
on any charge of vagrancy, or of any misdemeanour or crime; 
upon conviction by a civil tribunal for felony or for any vicious or 
disgraceful conduct. But the commissioners at Chelsea hospital, 
with the consent of the secretary at war, may, in certain cases ap- 
pearing to them to admit of such an act of grace, restore the pen- 
sioner, who has so forfeited his pension, to the whole, or to a portion 
of his original rate of pension. 

Any pensioner who neglects to draw his pension for four suc- 
cessive quarters shall be struck off the pension list, and shall not 
be replaced unless he shall satisfactorily account for such omission, 
and the commissioners shall, at their discretion, grant or withhold 
the arrears, or any portion thereof. 

If a pensioner shall apply to any parish for relief for himself or 
family, or shall suffer his family to become chargeable to the parish, 
his pension will become payable to the parish officers, according to 
the provisions of the acts of parliament, 59 Geo. HI. c. 12, and 
6 Geo. IV. c. 27. 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1836. 191 

A pensioner on his admission to Chelsea or Kilmainham hospi- 
tals as an in-pensioner, forfeits, in conformity with the act 7 Geo. 
IV. c. 16, all claim to the out-pension; but the commissioners of 
Chelsea and the governors of Kilmainham hospitals may, upon 
reasonable cause assigned to them, permit any in-pensioner to retire 
from the said hospitals, and may also dismiss any in-pensioner who 
has been guilty of misconduct; reserving to themselves the power 
>f restoring or of reducing the amount of the pension to which such 
pensioner was entitled on his admission. 

Deductions to lohich the pensioner is liable. Every pension 
granted under the authority of this warrant shall be subject to a 
deduction of sixpence in the pound. 

No person employed to pay the pensioners shall be allowed to 
charge more than threepence for the affidavit required to be trans- 
mitted quarterly to the secretary to the board at Chelsea hospital ; 
and no agent or clerk paying the pensioners shall demand or take 
from them any fee or reward, without subjecting himself to the 
penalty of forfeiting his office, together with the sum of L.lOO, in 
conformity with the act 7 Geo. IV. c. 16. 

Should a pensioner lose his instructions, and make an applica- 
tion for a fresh copy, he may be supplied therewith on making an 
affidavit of the circumstances under which the original was lost, 
and provided it shall be shown that the same had not been pledged 
or improperly disposed of; but if the pensioner be proved to have 
taken a false oath, he shall be struck off the pension list. When 
new instructions are given, he shall be liable to pay for them a 
sum not exceeding two shillings and sixpence, nor less than one 
shilling. 

Given at our court at St. James's, this seventh day of February, 
1833, in the third year of our reign. 

By his majesty's command, 

John Hobhouse. 

IV. Warrant, ISth August, 1836. 

WILLIAM R. Whkreas it has been represented to us that it 
would materially tend to the encouragement of good conduct in the 
army, if a reward, to be attained only by the well-conducted soldier, 
were substituted for the additional pay now granted to soldiers who 
have completed certain periods of service: Our will and pleasure 
is, that all soldiers who shall enlist into our service on or after the 
1st day of September, 1836, shall have no claim to additional pay 
after any period oi service, but that a reward of additional pay for 
good conduct shall be granted to such soldiers under the following 
rules: 

1. Soldiers who shall have completed seven years' service shall 
be entitled to claim Id. a day, and to wear a ring of lace round the 
right arm, provided their names shall not have been entered in the 



192 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

regimental defaulters' book for at least two years immediately pre- 
ceeding such claim. 

2. Soldiers who shall have completed fourteen years' service 
shall be entitled to claim a further reward of Id. a day, and to wear 
two rings of lace round the rifi^ht arm, provided they shall have 
been uninterruptedly in the enjoyment of the Id. a day for at least 
two years immediately preceding such farther claim. 

3. Soldiers who shall have completed twenty-one years' service 
shall be entitled to claim a further reward of Id. a day, and to wear 
three rings of lace round the right arm, provided they shall have 
been uninterruptedly in the enjoyment of the 2d. a day for two 
years immediately preceding their claim to the third penny. 

4. Soldiers who by their good conduct shall have obtained the 
distinction of one or more rings, shall be entitled to have the full rate 
of that good conduct pay, of which they shall have been in uninter- 
rupted possession for five years immediately preceding their dis- 
charge, added to the rate of pension, whether temporary or perma- 
nent, to which they may have a right under the provisions of our 
warrant of the 7th February, 1833. 

5. Soldiers who have been in the possession of some one or other 
of the rates of good conduct pay for five years uninterruptedly, but 
who have only been in possession of either of the higher rates for 
some period not, less than two years immediately preceding their 
discharge, shall be entitled, if discharged with two rings, to an ad- 
dition of lid., and if discharged with three rings, to an addition of 
2^d.j as an augmentation of the pension to which their services will 
entitle them. 

6. Soldiers who shall have been in the uninterrupted possession 
of good conduct pay for at least threee years immediately preceding 
their discharge for disability, or by reduction, and who shall not 
have acquired claims to pension, or who shall be entitled only to 
temporary or conditional pensions, shall have their names registered 
at Chelsea hospital; and upon their attaining sixty years of aofe 
shall receive, as a reward for their former good conduct, a pension 
of 4d. a day, if discharged with one ring, and of 6d. a day if dis- 
charged after having been twelve months in possession of two rings; 
and this reward for former good conduct shall also be extended to 
soldiers who may be permitted to obtain free discharge at their own 
request, as an indulgence, after certain periods of service, as de- 
scribed in the 10th article of this warrant. 

7. All soldiers now in our service who enlisted since the 1st 
March, 1833, shall have the option of relinquishing all right to the 
additional pay of 2d. a day, to wliich they are now entitled after the 
completion of fourteen years' infantry, or of seventeen years' cavalry 
service, and shall then be entitled, by their good conduct, to claim 
the Id. a day, after seven years' service, and shall be, in all respects, 
entitled to all the advantages both of gfood conduct pay while serv- 
ing, of pension on discharge, and of deferred pension, which are 
hereby granted to soldiers henceforward enlisting. 



I 



PENSIONING WARRANT 183G. 193 

8. All soldiers now serving, who enlisted on or before the 1st 
March, 1833, shall, by relinqiiishino: their right to additional pay for 
length of service, be entitled to claim all the advantages of good con- 
duct pay while serving, which are here granted ; but as the warrants 
which were in force at the time of their original enlistment, give 
them a right to higher rates of pension on discharge, than those 
which are to be granted to men enlisted after the 1st March, 1833, 
they will not be entitled to have their good conduct pay added to 
their pensions on discharge. 

9. In special cases, however, of men enlisted on or before the 1st 
March, 1833, who, by their good conduct, have obtained the dis- 
tinction of one or more rin^^s, and who, after short service, may be 
discharged for disabilities or by reduction either without pension, 
or with temporary or conditional, or permanent pensions, (not ex- 
ceeding those granted for similar disabilities and services under our 
warrant of the 7th February, 1833,) the good conduct pay may, by 
the consent of our secretary at war, be added to their pensions ; and 
such men, if not placed upon permanent pensions, may be registered 
at Chelsea for the deferred pension, under the same rules as the 
men enlisted after the 1st March, 1833. 

10. Soldiers who shall have obtained tlie distinction of one or 
more rings, and who may be permitted to purchase or obtain free 
discharge at their own request, shall be allowed free discharges upon 
the following terms, instead of those prescribed by the warrant of 
our late royal brother of the 14th November, 1829, and by our war- 
rant of the 7th February, 1833 ; but the conditions, limitations, and 
regulations for granting discharges by indulgence, laid down in the 
said warrants, shall, in the cases of all other soldiers, remain in full 
force 



Under 5 years' service, 

After 5 years' service, and with 2 years' j 

absence from the defaulter's book, \ 

After 7 years with one ring. 
After 10 do. do. 

After 12 do. do. 

After 14 do. do. 

After 16 do. do. fvee, witfi the right of registry for deferred 

pension of 4d. a day. 

After 16 years, with 2 rings, having possessed the second at least 
12 months, free, with the right of registry for deferred pension of 
6d. a day. 

11. Soldiers enlisted since the 1st March, 1833, who are in the 
enjoyment of two or of three rings, and of the good conduct pay, 
may obtain permanent pension as an indulgence, at the rate fixed 
in the warrant of 7tli February, 1833, two years earlier than other 
men who have not earned this distinction, and may further receive 



I^avalry. 


Infantry 


L.30 


L.20 


25 


18 


20 


15 


15 


10 


10 


5 


5 


Free. 



194 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OP SOLDIERS. 

the same amount of good conduct pay which would have been 
added to their ordinary pension under the rules laid down in this war- 
rant, if they had been discharged as unfit for further service or by 
reduction. 

12. As it is our will and pleasure that this reward shall he strictly 
an honourable distinction, to be conferred only upon the well con- 
ducted soldier, the commanding officers of regiments are strictly 
enjoined to enter in the regimental defaulter's book the name of 
every soldier, who, in consequence of any misconduct whatever, 
shall have been confined in the guard-house, or subjected to any 
punishment; and the commission of every offence, which shall 
impose upon the commanding officer the necessity of recording the 
soldier's name in the regimental defaulter's book, shall render the 
man ineligible for this reward for two years from that date ; and if 
he be already in possession of this distinction, shall deprive him of 
his ring and good conduct pay for one year ; and a second recorded 
offence within twelve months shall render two years of uninter- 
rupted fjood conduct necessary to obtain a restoration of such reward. 

13. The soldier having two or three rings shall in like manner 
for the first and second recorded offences forfeit one ring, and the 
good conduct pay allowed with it for one year for each offence ; and 
if a third offence be recorded against him in the regimental default- 
er's book within twelve months, he shall forfeit all claim in conse- 
quence of his previous good conduct, and shall only be entitled to 
obtain a restoration of his honourable distinctions, by subsequently 
serving with uninterrupted good conduct for two years to obtain 
one ring, for four years to obtain two rings, and for six years, to 
obtain three rings. * 

14. Any soldier who, by having been recorded in the regimental 
defaulter's book, shall have been adjudged to have been guilty of an 
offence by which he is to forfeit the whole or part of his reward for 
previous good conduct, shall, if he denies the commission of such 
offence, have the right of appeal to a court-martial. 

15. A soldier may, for a first offence of a serious nature, be ad- 
judged, by the sentence of a court-martial, to forfeit all or any part 
of the advantages he had derived from his previous good conduct, 
either absolutely, or for a longer or shorter period, according to the 
circumstances which shall have appeared in evidence. 

16. The distinction and the rewards granted by this warrant will 
be extended to corporals and drummers, bolh as regards pay and 
pension, but Serjeants and other non-commissioned officers will not 
be allowed, while serving, any addition to their established pay, hut 
on their discharge, they may, for peculiarly g^ood conduct, on the 
special recommendation of our general commanding-in-chief, and 
by the consent of our secretary at war, communicated to the com- 
missioners of Chelsea hospital, be allowed additions of Id., 2d., or 
3d. a day to their pensions ; provided that the aggregate pension 
shall in no case exceed for a Serjeant Is. lOd., for a quarter-master 
Serjeant 2s. Id. and for a serjeanl-major, 2s. 4d. a day. 



PENSIONING WARRANT 1836. 195 

Given at our court at Windsor, this 18th day of August, 1836, in 
the seventh year of our reign. By his majesty's command, 

HOWICK. 

V. Instructions consequent upon his majesty's warrant of the 
ISth August, 1836. 

1. The rules established by the warrant in regard to soldiers who 
shall enlist on or after the 1st September, 1836, will apply to men 
who shall re-enlist after that date. 

2. The service requisite to entitle corporals, drummers, trumpet- 
ers, fifers, bng-lers, and private men to the distinction and rewards 
granted by this warrant, may include former service in all ranks 
after the agre of eighteen. 

3. Men dischargfed on reduction or for disability, and re-enlisting 
within three years after the date of their di.scharge, may reckon their 
former service, provided they shall declare such former service at 
the time of re-enlistment; but men purchasing their discharges, or 
receivinor free discharges, shall not reckon former service. 

4. The forfeiture of service now attaching to individuals in re- 
spect of additional pay, in consequence of the sentence of a court- 
mariial, or of conviction for desertion, will equally attach to them 
in respect to jjood conduct pay. 

5. All soldiers now serving who enlisted on or before the 1st 
March, 1833, and who have completed twenty-one years' service, 
may, on relinquishing their right to additional pay, receive 3d. per 
diem good conduct pay, provided their names shall not have been 
entered in the regimental defaulters' book for at least six years 
immediately preceding the exchange. 

6. Soldiers of less than twenty-one years' service, already in the 
receipt of additional pay at 2d. a day for length of service, may, on 
relinqiii^hintr their right to additional pay, continue to receive the 
same amount, as ijood conduct pay, provided their names shall not 
have been entered in the regimental defaulter's book for at least yb?Yr 
years immediately precedincr the exchange. 

7. Soldiers who are already in the receipt of additional pay of Id. 
a day for lentjth of service may, on relinquishing their right to ad- 
ditional pay, continue to receive the same amount, as 2:ood conduct 
pay, provided their names shall not have been entered in the retri- 
mental defaulter's book for at least two years immediately preceding 
the excluinoe. 

8. Soldiers not yet in the receipt of additional pay fpr length of 
service may, by relinquishing their ris^ht to the same, receive good 
conduct pay. on completing the respective periods of seven, fourteen, 
and twenty-one years, provided their names shall not have been en- 
tered in the regimental defaulter's book in the first case, for at least 
two years; in the second case for at least four years; and in the 
third case, for at least six years immediately preceding. 

9. Soldiers who were present at the battle of Waterloo shall be 



196 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

allowed to reckon two years in addition to their actual service, and 
those who were enlisted before the 1st December, 1829, shall be 
allowed to reckon three years for two of actual service after the age 
of eiofhteen in the East and West Indies (in other than West India 
regiments.) 

10. Soldiers enlisted before the 1st September, 1836, shall be en- 
titled to the distinction of rings under the provisions of the warrant, 
whether they accept or not the option of relinquishing additional 
pay for good conduct pay ; and they shall be entitled to the same 
addition to their pensions for the number of rings they may seve- 
rally possess at the period of their discharge, as is allowed, under 
the provisions of the warrant, to men in receipt of good conduct 
pay. 

HOWICK. 

War-Office, VSth Sept. 1836. 

VI. Good conduct warrant, dated 9th May, 1839. 

YICTORIA R. Whereas it has been represented to us, that it 
would materially tend to the encouragement of good conduct in the 
army if a reward, to be attained only by the well-conducted soldier, 
were substituted for the additional pay granted to soldiers who have 
completed certain periods of service; our will and pleasure is, that 
all corporals, trumpeters, drummers, fifers, buglers, and private sol- 
diers, enlisted or re-enlisted into our service on or after the 1st day 
of September, 1836, shall have no claim to additional pay after any 
period of service, but that a reward of additional pay for good con- 
duct shall be granted to such soldiers under the following rules : 

1. Soldiers who shall have completed seven years' service shall be 
entitled to claim Id. a day, and to wear a distinguishing mark, pro- 
vided their names shall not have been entered in the regimental 
defaulter's book for at least two years immediately preceding such 
claim. 

2. Soldiers who shall have completed 14 years' service shall be 
entitled to claim a further reward of Id. a day, and to wear two dis- 
tinguishing marks, provided they shall liave been uninterruptedly 
in the enjoyment of Id. a day, for at least two years immediately 
preceding such further claim. 

3. Soldiers who shall have completed 21 years' service shall be 
entitled to claim a further reward of Id. a day, and to wear three 
distinguishing marks, provided they shall have been uninterrupt- 
edly in the enjoyment of the 2d. a day for two years immediately 
precedinof their claim to the third penny. 

4. Soldiers who shall have completed 28 years' service shall be 
entitled to claim a further reward of Id. a day, and to wear four 
distinguishing marks, provided they shall have been uninterrupt- 
edly in the enjoyment of the 3d. a day. for two years immediately 
preceding their claim to the fourth penny. 

5. Soldiers, who by their good conduct shall have obtained one 



p 



GOOD-CONDUCT WARRANT 1836. 197 



or more distinguishing marks, shall be entitled to have the full rate 
of that good conduct pay of whicli they shall have been in unin- 
terrupted possession ior five years immediately preceding their dis- 
charge, added to the rate of pension, whether temporary or permanent, 
to which they may have a right under the provisions of a warrant 
of our late royal uncle, dated the 7th February, 1833. 

6. Soldiers who have been in the possession of some one or other 
of the rates of good conduct pay for five years uninterruptedly, but 
who have only been in possession of either of the higher rates for 
some period not less than two years immediately preceding their 
discharge, shall be entitled, if discharged with two distinguishing 
marks, to an addition of ^d. ; if discharged with three distinguishing 
marks, to an addition of 2^d. ; and if discharged with four distin- 
guishing marks, to an addition of S^d., as an augmentation of the 
pension to which their services will entitle them. 

7. Soldiers who shall have been in the uninterrupted possession 
of good conduct pay for at least three years immediately preceding 
their discharge for disability, or by reduction, and who shall not 
have acquired claims to pension, or who shall be entitled only to 
temporary or conditional pensions, shall have their names registered 
at Chelsea hospital ; and upon their attaining sixty years of age 
shall receive, as a reward for their former good conduct, a pension 
of 4d. a day if discharged with one distinguishing mark, and of 6d. 
a day if discharged after having been twelve months in possession 
of two distinguishing marks ; and this reward for former good con- 
duct shall also be extended to soldiers who may be permitted to 
obtain free discharges at their own request, as an indulgence, after 
certain periods of service, as described in the 11th article of this 
Avarrant. 

8. The service requisite to entitle men to the distinction and re- 
wards granted by this warrant, may include former service in all 
ranks after the age of eighteen. 

9. Men discharged on reduction or for disability, and re-enlisting 
within three years after the date of their discharge, may reckon 
their former service, provided they shall declare such former service 
at the time of re-enlistment; but men purchasing their discharges, 
or receiving free discharges, shall not reckon former service. 

10. The forfeiture of service now attaching to individuals in re- 
spect of additional pay, in consequence of the sentence of a court- 
martial, or of conviction for desertion, will equally attach to them 
in respect of good conduct pay. 

11. Soldiers of good conduct, who may be permitted to purchase 
or to obtain free discharges at their own request, shall be allowed 
free discharges upon the following terms, instead of those pre- 
scribed by the royal warrant of the 14th November, 1829, and by his 
late majesty's warrant of the 7th February, 1833 ; but the condi- 
tions, limitations, and regulations, for granting discharges by in- 
dulgence, laid down in the said warrants, shall, in the cases of all 
other soldiers, remain in full force. 



198 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



Cavalry. Infantry. 
Under 5 yoars' actual service, L.30 L.20 

After 5 years' actual service, and with 2 years' ^9- 10 

absence from the defaulter's book, ^ 

After 7 years' actual service, with one distin- ) n(\ i k 

ofuishino^ mark, S 

After 10 years' actual service, with one distin- (15 in 

ffuishing mark, \ 

After 12 do. do. 10 5 

After 14 do. do. 5 Free 

After 16 do. do. free, with the right of registry for 

deferred pension of 4d. a day. 
After 16 years' actual service, with two distinofuishifig marks, 
having possessed the second at least 12 months, free, with the 
right of registry for deferred pension of 6d. a-day. 

12. Soldiers enlisting since the 1st March, 1833, who are in the 
enjoyment of two or more distinguishing marks, and of the good 
conduct pay, may obtain permanent pension as an indulgence, at 
the rate fixed m the warrant of 7th February, 1833, two years 
earlier than other men who have not earned this distinction, and 
may further receive the same amount of good-conduct pay, which 
would have been added to their ordinary pension, under the rules 
laid down in this warrant, if they had been discharged as unfit for 
further service, or by reduction. 

13. As it is our will and pleasure that this reward shall be strictly 
an honourable distinction, to be conferred only upon the well con- 
ducted soldier, the commanding officers of regiments are strictly 
enjoined to enter in the regimental defaulter's book the name of 
every soldier who, in consequence of misconduct, shall have been 
subjected to any punishment beyond six days' drills or seven days* 
confinement to barracks^ and the commission of every offence, 
which shall impose upon the commanding officer the necessity of 
recording the soldier's name in the regimental defaulter's book, 
shall render the man ineligible for this reward for two years from 
that date, and. if he be already in possession of this distinction, 
shall deprive him of his distinguishing mark and good-conduct pay 
for one year; and a second recorded offence within twelve months 
shall render two years of uninterrupted good corjduct necessary to 
obtain a restoration of such reward. 

14. The soldier having two or more distinguishing marks shall, 
in like manner for the first, second, and third recorded ofiences, 
forfeit one distinguishinor mark, and the good-conduct pay allowed 
with it, for one year for each offence ; and if a fourth offence be 
recorded asfainst him in the regimental defaulter's book, within 
twelve months, he shall forfeit all claim in consequence of his pre- 
vious good conduct, and shall only be entitled to obtain a restoration 
of his honourable distinctions by subsequently serving, with unin- 



GOOD-CONDUCT WARRANT 1839. 1 9^ 

terrupted good conduct, for two years, to obtain one distinguishing" 
mark, for four years to obtain two distinguishing marks, for six 
years to obtain three distinguishing marks, and for eight years to 
obtain four distinguishing marks. 

15. Any soldier who, by having been recorded in the regimental 
defaulter's book, shall have been adjudged to have been guilty of 
an offence by which he is to forfeit the whole or a part of his 
reward for his previous good conduct, shall, if he denies the com- 
mission of such offence, have the right of appeal to a court-martial. 

16. A soldier may, for a first offence of a serious nature, be 
adjudged, by the sentence of a court-martial, to forfeit all or any 
part of the advantages he had derived from his previous good 
conduct, either absolutely or for any petiod not less than eighteen 
months, according to the circumstances which shall have appeared 
in evidence. 

17. The distinction and the rewards granted by this warrant do 
not extend to Serjeants and other non-commissioned officers above 
the rank of corporal, and they will not be allowed, while serving, 
any addition to their established pay; but if permitted to purchase 
their discharges, or to obtain free discharges at their own request, 
they will be admitted to the benefits of article 11 of this "warrant ; 
and if discharge to pension, they may, for peculiarly good conduct, 
on the special reconmiendation of our general commanding-in-chief, 
and by the consent of our secretary at war, communicated to the 
commissioners of Chelsea hospital, be allowed additions of Id. 2d. 
3d. or 4d. a-day to their pensions ; provided that the aggregate 
))ensiori shall in no case exceed, for a Serjeant, Is. lOd., for a 
quarter-master-serjeant, 2s. Id., and for a serjeant-maJor, 2s. 4d. 
a-day. 

18. All soldiers now in our service, who enlisted since the 1st 
March, 1833, but before 1st September, 1836, shall have the option 
of relinquishing all right to the additional pay of 2d. a day, to which 
they are now entitled after the completion of fourteen years' infan- 
try, or of seventeen years' cavalry service, and shall then be entitled, 
by their good conduct, to claim the Id. a-day after seven years' 
service, and shall be, in all respects, entitled to all the advantages 
both of g-ood-conduct pay while serving, of pension on discharge, 
and of deferred pension, which are herein before granted to soldiers 
enlisted on or after 1st Si^ptember, 1836. 

19. All soldiers now serving, who enlisted on or before the 1st 
March, 1833, shall, by relinquishing their right to additional pay 
for length of service, be entitled to claim all the advantages of good- 
conduct pay while servinsf, which are hereby granted ; but as the 
warrants which were in force at the time of their original enlist- 
ment give them a ri^ht to higher rates of pension on discharge 
than those which are to be granted to men enlisted after the 1st 
March, 1833, they will not be entitled to have their good-conduct 
pay added to their pensions on discharge. 

20. In special cases, however, of men enlisted on or before the 



200 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 



1st March, 1833, who, by their good conduct, have obtained one or 
more diblini^uishin^ marks, and who, after short service, may be 
discharo;ed for disabilities, or by reduction, either witfiout pension 
or with temporary, or conditional, or pernjanent pensions, (not 
exceeding tliose granted for similar disabilities and services under 
the warrant of the 7th February, 1833,) the good-conduct pay may, 
by the consent of our secretary at war, be added to their pensions ; 
and such men, if not placed upon permanent pensions, may be 
registered at Chelsea for the deferred pensions, under the same rules 
as the men enlisted after the 1st March, 1833. 

21. All soldiers now serving, who enlisted on or before the 1st of 
September, 1836, and who have completed twenty-eight years' ser- 
vice, may, on relinquishing their right to additional pay, receive 4d. 
a-day good-conduct pay, provided their names shall not have been 
entered into the regimental defaulter's book, for at least eight 
years immediately preceding the exchange. 

22. Soldiers who have completed twenty-one years' service may, 
on relinquishing their right to additional pay, receive 3d. per diem 
good-conduct pay, provided their names shall not have been entered 
in the regimental defaulter's book for at least six years imme- 
diately preceding the exchange. 

23. Soldiers of less than twenty-one years' service, already in the 
receipt of additional pay, at 2d. a day, for length of service, may, 
on relinquishing their right to additional pay, continue to receive 
the same amount as good-conduct pay, provided their names shall 
not have been entered in the regimental defaulter's book for at 
least /owr years immediately preceding the exchange. 

24. Soldiers who are already in the receipt of additional pay of 
Id. a-day for length of service, may, on relinquishing their right to 
additional pay, continue to receive the same amount as good-con- 
duct pay, provided their names shall not have been entered in the 
regimental defaulter's book for at least tivo years immediately pre- 
ceding the exchange. 

25. Soldiers not yet in the receipt of additional pay for length of 
service, may, by relinquishing their right to the same, receive good- 
conduct pay, on completing the respective periods of seven, fourteen, 
twenty-one, and twenty-eight years, provided their names shall not 
have been entered in the regimental defaulter's book in the first 
case, for at least two years; in the second case, for at least four 
years; in the third case, for at least six years; and, in the fourth 
case, for at least eight yedrs, immediately preceding. 

26. In establishiiig their claims to the good-conduct pay, sol- 
diers who were present at the battle of Waterloo, shall be allowed 
to reckon two years in addition to their actual service, and those 
who were enlisted before the first December, 1839, shall be allowed 
to reckon three years for two of actual service, after the age of 
eighteen, in the East and West Indies, (in other than West India 
regiments,) hut in claiming their discharge under the eleventh 
article actual service only will be reckoned. 






i 




k 



GOOD-CONDUCT WARRANT 1889. 201 

27. Soldiers enlisted before the first September, 1S36, shall be 
entitled to distinfi^iiishing marks, whether they accept or not the 
option of relinquishing additional pay for trood-conduct pay, and 
they shall be entitled to the same addition to their pension for the 
number of distinguishing marks they may severally possess at the 
period of their discharge, as is allowed to men in receipt of good- 
conduct pay. 

Given at our court at Buckingham Palace, this ninth day of 
May, 1839, in the second year of our reign. By her majes- 
ty's command, 

Ho WICK. 



The words in italics iji the XZth, I6ih, and 26th articles areiiot 
in the good-conduct warrant of May, 1837. 

The administration of this warrant, especially its penal enact- 
ments, depends much upon the discretion of the commanding officer 
of a corps, who is the primary arbiter and judge in regard to the 
delinquencies of the men under his command. It may be antici- 
pated that it will be very differently administered by difl^erent 
individuals. Some commanding officers tnay rarely deem it 
expedient to subject men " to any punishment beyond simple 
admonition," while others will think that they are under "the 
necessity of recording a soldier's name in the regimental default- 
er's book" for very trivial faults. Where ojffences are not classed, 
and the requisite punishments more or less defined, there is no 
absolute security against very diflferent notions being entertained of 
the conduct of soldiers, and widely different punishments inflicted 
for similar breaches of discipline. 

The defaulter's book is intended to contain the names of such 
men as are guilty of offences and irregularities, on account of which 
they are reported to the commanding officer, and for which it may 
not be deemed necessary to order a court-martial. The insertion 
of a name in the defaulter's book may, in its consequences, be a 
very heavy penalty, being taken as evidence of the fact which it 
professes to record. The proof, therefore, of the guilt of a soldier 
does not rest on oath ; it is simply an entry made according to the 
decision, and by the direction, of a commanding officer. [Articles 
of War, 1830, art. 51.) In this case, therefore, a considerable 
deviation is made from the usual rules of evidence. 

I hail with much pleasure any attempt to improve the condition, 
and to promote the good conduct of soldiers, and I sincerely wish 
the good-conduct warrant may be ultimately beneficial in repressing 
irregularities. Much still requires to be done in furtherance of the 
leading object of the warrant. Should the army become more 
popular, by bettering the situation, and stimulating the hopes of 
soldiers, perhaps a somewhat superior class of recruits may volun- 
teer for the service. Young men who have, under the direction of 
their parents, received some elementary instruction, are likely to be 
better conducted than soldiers whose parents have given them no 



202 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING. ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

early tuition ; for it may in g^eneral be inferred, that those persons 
who are best instructed in reading and writing; are best instructed 
in nnorals. The ultimate object of education, is to make men better 
and more useful members of society. I am also in hopes that 
increased atteiuion may be paid to the tuition of soldiers in the 
regimental schools. An important step has already been made on 
this subject by Lord Ho wick, as in the army estimates for 1839- 
1840, a charge for the first time appears, of 2000 to be expended 
in the purcfiase of books, for the purpose of forming libraries in 
barracks at home and abroad. In civil life there is a great lack of 
instruction, probably arising in part from a want of leisure to attend 
school, and a want of means to pay for education ; but these 
obstructions to the attainment of information do not exist to an 
equal degree in the army. Education, more especially a moral and 
religious education, is eminently calculated to make men respect- 
able ; it inculcates sound principles, and, by instructing them in 
regard to their position in society, contributes greatly to render 
them obedient to the laws. Notwithstanding the indiscriminate 
admission of recruits into the army, in as far as instruction and 
moral character are concerned, every regiment contains many 
excellent and deservins; individuals men who would have distin- 
guished themselves if they had received a moderate degree of 
education in the youthful period of life, and had been placed in 
situations where their talents might have been properly exercised 
and cultivated. The manual labour class of society are endowed 
with similar capabilities of education with the class above them, 
with the like faculties for the acquisition of knowledjcje and moral 
elevation. The late zealous and experienced Dr. Jackson said, 
''The soldier has no liberty to exercise his mind ; and as no man 
can be great, or even good, without exercise of mind, it is worthy 
of the considertition of the wise to determine how much intellectual 
liberty may be permitted to the soldier, without danger to the 
sovereign authority." 

Whether some system of rewards to the good and well-behaved 
soldier may not improve the moral character of the army, so as to 
render corporal punishment unnecessary, or still less so than at 
present, is a difficult problem to solve, and one which does not 
belong to my subject. His majesty's commissioners for inquiring 
into the system of military punishments in the army, state that, 
during their investigation, they found ample evidence of the earnest 
desire, and the most strenuous efforts upon the part of the officers 
of all ranks, so to conduct the discipline of the army, as to render 
corporal punishment as rare as possible; and the following statis- 
tical facts bear evidence of the gradual reduction of that description 
of punishment of late years. 

For a period of thirty-two years, or from 1797 to 1828, inclusive, 
the mean monthly ratio of punished men in hospital among the 
troops in Ireland, was y\ man per 1000. Now, if, as we may pre- 
sume, the mean period during which each punished man remained 



i 



GOOD-CONDUCT WARRANT 1839. 



203 



in hospital, was about seven or eiaht days, we .may suppose, that 
four men per 1000 were punished monthly, or 48 per annum ; con- 
sequently, on an average, one man in 20 was punished annually. 
The foUowint;;^ table exhibits a great diminution of the number of 
punishments among the troops employed in some foreign com- 
mands. 



Stations. 


Period of 


1 


Annual ratio of cor- 
poral punishments per 
ni)0 


Mean 
piopor- 
tion of 

men 
punished. 


Punished 
in 1836. 


Observation. 


C 


First year 
of the 
period. 


c 
ca 
a) 


Last year 

of period 

(1836. 


Windward and > 
Leeward Com. ^ 
Jamaica 


1817 to 1836 
1817 to 1836 


20 
20 


72 
193 


38 
34 


6 

8 


1 in 26 
1 in 15 


1 in 166 
1 in 125 


Gibraltar 


1818 to 1836' 19 


14 


16 


7 


1 in 62 


I in 143 


Malta 


1817 to 1836 20 


65 


40 


18 


1 in 25 


1 in 55 


Ionian Islands 


1817 to 1836 20 


56 


37 


8 


1 in 27 


1 in 125 


Bermudas - 


1817 to 1836 20 


64 


59 


5 


1 in 17 


1 in 200 


Canada 


1817 to 1836 20 


80 


32 


3 


1 in 31 


1 in 333 


Nova Scotia & } 
N. Brunswick \ 


1817 to 1836 20 


65 


31 


12 


1 in 32 


1 in 83 



This table shows that a very remarkable reduction of the ratio 
of corporal punishments has taken place in all the stations, but in 
none to such an extent as in Jamaica, the number punished in 
1817, being 1 in 5 of the strength, and in 1836^ only 1 in 125. 

Statement showing the establishment of the British army, and the 
number of corporal punishments which were inflicted for a period 
often years, or from 1825 to 1834. 







Number of 


Annual ratio 








corporal pun- 


of punish- 


Proportion 


Years. 


Strength. 


ishments in- 


ments per 


of men 






flicted. 


1000. 


punished. 


1825 


98,948 


1737 


17 


1 in 59 


1826 


111,058 


2242 


20 


1 in 50 


1827 


111,107 


2291 


20 . 


1 in 50 


1828 


110,918 


2143 


19 


1 in 52 


1829 


103,749 


1748 


17 


I in 59 


1830 


103,374 


1754 


17 


1 in 59 


1831 


103,413 


1489 


14 


lin 71 


1832 


103,572 


1283 


12 


1 in 83 


1833 


103,527 


1007 


9 


lin 111 


1834 


103,063 


963 


9 


1 in 111 



From this statement it appears that the number of corporal 
punishments was reduced on an average from about 20 per 1000, 
to 10 or one-half during the above period often years. 



203 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS 



Note I. see page 147. 
Diet table of the 'pensioners in Chelsea hospital. 

Breakfast at 8 a. m. A pint of cocoa containing three-quarters of 
an ounce of ground cocoa; three quarters of an ounce of moist 
sugar ; one-third of a gill of milk ; sixteen ounces of bread. 

Dinner at 12 noon. A pint of broth ; thirteen ounces of meat from 
which the broth has been made, with one pound of potatoes. There 
is a certain quantity of oatmeal put into the broth, amounting to 
about one pound and a quarter per man monthly. 

Each man has also one pound of cheese, and two ounces of butter 
weekly, and one and a half pint of porter daily. Salt and mustard 
are provided ad libitum. 

Once in three weeks each man has roast instead of boiled meat. 

Hotel des Invalides and Chelsea Hospital. 

"The Hotel des Invalides is altogether a fine structure, and well 
calculated for the purpose of an asylum for a portion of the disabled 
and wounded men of an army; but I must confess, in going 
through this building, as well as in some visits 1 have paid to Chel- 
sea, I had not that sort of satisfactory feeling which many pe rsons 
have expressed on the same occasion. To me there appeared a sort 
of monotony, of inertness, and melancholy, that pervaded both the 
places and their inhabitants, difiicult to describe by words. The 
same constant, dull routine of mere animal existence, unchequered 
with any accident that can raise the mind from the torpor of a life 
of consummate idleness ; it gives a dull and stupified air to the in- 
mates, which T suspect is never thrown off, except under the stim- 
ulus of wine or beer; a man has nothing to do in the world, but 
recollect the number of his mess, and look after his eating and drink- 
ing utensils. I went several times into the library o{ les invalides^ 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 205 

in search of rare military books, and never saw above two or three 
of the pensioners there at a time. It would appear that even read- 
ing to those who were capable was too great an exertion ; and the 
summum honnm of life seemed to consist in basking on a bench in 
the snn, and turning over the gravel witli the point of a stick. 

"I have often thought, that, had I been placed in similar circum- 
stances, and had merited pension, how much more I should havo 
preferred having my shilling a day to do what 1 liked with, and go 
where I pleased, to be locked up in a palace, and reo^ularly fed and 
put to bed, like an animal in a menagerie, in place of repeating a 
twenty times told tale to the same circle of acquaintance, or listening 
to theirs, to wander about in search of relations, or long lost friends 
setlied in trade or business, and to their attentive ears give the his- 
tory of a chequered life, and fight battles o'er again. 

" I have no intention to depreciate the establishments of the Inva- 
lids or Chelsea, as national charities, but merely to say that they are 
somewhat overrated. 

'Neither of them is capable, in time of war, of receiving one 
fourth or owq tlfth of those who have claims on them ; and I would 
therefore suggest that these buildings should be devoted to those 
who have no friends or relations alive." Cogitations of a Vaga- 
bond^ by authority of the kings commission^ tj*^. 1833. 

Vaidy, a French surgeon, who has published an excellent article 
in the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicates, on the means of pre- 
serving the health of soldiers, recommends that the invalids who 
have a right to be admitted to the Hotel des Invalides should be 
awarded a pension equal to four fifths or three fourtlis of the ave- 
rage expense of the establishment. Thus, if the mean annual ex- 
pense be 600 francs, (24,) they might receive 500 or 400 francs, 
(20, or 10;) by which means, he asserts, that the expense of re- 
munerating: worn-out soldiers would be greatly reduced without 
diminishing the comforts of veteran pensioners. 

Note 11. 



Recruiting of the Army and medical examination of Recruits. 

By the ancient form of levying soldiers in England, every person 
having any office, fee, or annuity, of the king's fjrant, was person- 
ally to attend upon him when he went to the field in time of vvar, 
and individuals who neglected to do so, forfeited their office, fee, or 
annuity. The mutual inconveniences attendant on the nature of 
military services due from those who held feudal tenures of the 
crown, disposed both parties to consent to frequent commutation of 
money for service. By this means a revenue was acquired, whicli 
was expended in the hire of native born subjects to serve in the 
army. The king covenanted with influential persons to serve him 
9 a 14 mar 



206 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

with a certain nnmber of followers for a specific sum of money 
during each enterprise. When Henry V. was about to invade France, 
he engaofed by indenture the attendance of one surofeon, a certain 
John or Thomas Morstede, having in his company fifteen assistants, 
three of which were to act as archers. Notwithstanding this pre- 
caution, there was only one surgeon at the battle of Agincourt, (25//i 
October^ 141.5,) namely, Morstede himself, for the fifteen assistants 
he had pressed under a royal warrant had not joined the army, 
indeed they had not landed. Surgeons were at that time, and for 
two hundred years after, liable to impressment^ and in early ages 
they seem to have been under the necessity of making some of their 
own instruments ; for in 1416, the king conmianded Morstede and 
Bredewerdyn, his own surgeon, to take (press) as many surgeons 
and other artisans as were needful to make the instruments required. 
Until towards the end of the I7th century the supply of medical 
recruits for the army appears to have been very inadequate for the 
wants of the service. The barber-surgeons' company was com- 
manded in 1626, to provide sixteen of the best surgeons for his 
majesty's army ; and in 1630 the surgeons' company was empowered 
by charter to take (press) as many barbers and surgeons in any part 
of England as were requited for his majesty's fleet. [Medical Al- 
manack^ 1839.) 

In the year 1641, a bill was passed, which, after reciting that, by 
the laws of the realm, none of his majesty's subjects ought to be im- 
1 pressed, or compelled to go out of their own country to serve as sol- 
diers, except in urgent necessity, or in case of their beinsf bound by 
tenure of lands to do so, enacted, that, for service in Ireland, it should 
be lawful from the 1st of December, 1611, to the 1st November, 
1642, for the justices, &c. to raise as many men by impress for 
soldiers, gunners, and chirvrgeons as miorht be appointed by liis ma- 
jesty, and both liouses of parliament. When the army was about to 
be disbanded in 1649, an assurance was given by parliament, that 
"no person who had been enofaged in the late war should be liable 
to be pressed for the service beyond sea." The old soldiers do not, 
however, appear to have been exempted from compulsory military 
service at home. 

There was an act of parliament passed in the third year of the 
reign of Queen Anne, (1704,) and annually renewed for a long 
time, appointing all justices of the peace, &c. to raise (press) sue 
able bodied men as have no lawful calling or visible means of live 
1 lihood, to serve as soldiers. The acts against mutiny and desertion 
having been read to the pres^ec? men, they received 20s. of earnest, 
and were thenceforth considered soldiers. The practical mode of car- 
rying this act into operation, may be inferred from some passages in 
Farquhar's play of the Recruiting Officer, which was acted in 1705. 



1 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 207 

Act. II. Scene III. 
Enter Kite with two recruits drunk. 

Kite. You are a king you are an emperor, and I am a prince. 

Thomas. No, Serjeant, I'll be no emperor. 

Kite.^o\ 

Thomas. I'll be a justice of peace. 

Kite. A justice of peace man ! 
Thomas. Ay Wauns, Will, I for since this pressing act they 
are greater than any emperor under the sun. 

Act V. Scene IV. 

-4 court of Justice Balance^ Scale and Scruple upon the bench. 
Constable, Kite, Mob. 

Balance. What are you friend ? 

.Mob. A collier I work in the coal-pits. 

Scruple. Look'e gentlemen, this fellow has a trade, and the act 
of parliament here expresses that we are to impress no man that has 
any visible means of livelihood. 

Kite. May it please your worship, this man has no visible means 
of a livelihood, for he works under ground. 

Balance. Right. Bring in the rest. 

Constable. There are no more, an't please your honour. 

Balance. There were five two hours ago. 

Sylvia. 'Tis true sir; but this rogue o\ a constable let the rest 
escape for a bribe of eleven shillings a man, because he said the act 
allowed him but ten, so the odd shilling was clear gain. 

Mr. Bruce, in his work on the Institutions of Military Law, 
published in 1717, recommends that an army should not be "alto- 
gether pressed, nor altotrether volunteers.^'' "A middle way," he 
says, " is likest to succeed, viz. neither too forcible on the one hand, 
nor too frank on the other ; for a method thus wisely tempered be- 
twixt/air and foul means can scarce ever make a government run 
the hazard of discontent, far less of mutinies and disorders. In this 
island we do indeed compel, yet not all promiscuously, but only 
idle vagabonds, and such as have no employment, or are guilty of 
smaller crimes. Bat as to voluntary listing, captains and other offi- 
cers do commonly receive warrants to beat up drums in every city, 
and thereby all are invited to list themselves under pay, which who- 
soever doth, he is, after receiving earnest, solemnly attested by a 
a magistrate, and is thenceforth looked upon as a soldier." Mr. Bruce 
being an advocate^ was no doubt profoundly learned in the law; 



208 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

but he seems to have entertained very queer notions in regard to the 
rights of individuals. 

Enlisting money, which is, I believe, pecuhar to this country, 
appears to be equivalent to an earnest or early penny a pledge that 
the parties intend to fulfil the agreement. 

During the last century, various acts of parliament were passed, 
authorising the justices of peace to jjiess men for the army. In 
1778, an act was passed for the more easy and better recruiting of 
his majesty's land forces, which renewed the power of the justices 
and commissioners of the land tax to do so. No class of individuals 
were specifically exempted from being pressed, except persons who 
had a right to vote for a member of parliament, labourers during 
harvest, and ^^ known Papists.^^ The inhabitants of the different 
parishes were to receive ten shillings for giving information of any 
able-bodied man who was in consequence thereby apprehended. By 
former acts the reward offered was 1. This recruiting act was 
put in operation by a letter from the war office, bearing date June, 
1778. 

In 1778, an inspector general of recruiting was appointed, who 
seems to have had the charge of the recruiting of the regiments on 
foreign service, his head quarters being at Chatham; and I presume 
a surgeon was attached to his staff* to examine the recruits. The 
regiments at home were instructed to enlist men to fill up the va- 
cancies which occurred in corps. 

Dr. Hamilton [Duties of a Regimental Surgeon considered, 
1782,) is, so far as 1 know, the first medical author who alludes to 
the duty of examinino: recruits. It does not, however, appear that 
recruits were generally examined by a medical officer before 1790. 
Mr. Reide, surgeon to the 1st battalion of the 1st, or royal regiment 
of foot, in his work, [A View of the Diseases of the Arrny^ ^*c. 
1793,) complains in his journal, ( West Indies, January, 1790,) of 
the unfitness of recruits who had been sent to the regiment to which 
he then belonged. "I wrote," says he, "to the late Mr. Adair, sur- 
geon-general, informing him, that, of seventy- four men which ar- 
rived in December last, fifteen or sixteen were totally incapable of 
doing duty, on account of lameness, ruptures, contracted joints, 
consumption, epilepsies, ulcers on the legs, and other maladies. 
When I examined these men on their arrival, I inquired whether' 
any surgeon had seen them; they answered in the negative. To 
the present surgeon-general (John Hunter, Esq.) I likewise com 
plained of the circumstance, and since that a stop has been put to 
the evil." 

Until about the year 1799, every person who enlisted was obliged 
to swear that he was a Protestant, consequently, a Roman Catholic 
could not become a soldier without perjuring himself Dr. Bell, 
formerly surgeon to the 5th regiment, makes a strong appeal on the 
subject of religious disabilities: "Shall an infamous vagabond," 
says he, "unacquainted with every principle of religion, who has 
been tried at the Old Bailey, and convicted of various acts of depreda- 



NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 209 

tion on society, be exempted from the pnnlshrricnt of his crimes, 
provided he aijreed to serve his mnjcsly as a soldier? mid shall a 
Roman Catholic, however virtuous, however respectable, a subject 
of Great Britain, be prevented from entering into the service of his 
country, because he believes in the doctrine of transiibstantiation, 
in proportion to the reverence every sensible Episcopalian enter- 
tains for that very loise^ pious, and charitahlfi, though rather enig- 
matical compound, the Athanasian Crcedl" {Liquiri/ into the 
Causes ichich produce Diseases in the West Indies, by Dr. Bell. 
Lond. 1791, page 178.) * 

By a warrant which was issued from the war oflice, bearing date 
27th October, 1790, the commanding officers of regiments serving 
abroad, who took upon themselves the approbation of recruits for 
their own corps, were directed to ^'require and- receive sufficient 
chirnrgical testimony respecting the sameJ^ And by the regula- 
tions for conducting the recruiting service, issued in 1796, a hos- 
pital mate was placed under the orders of each field officer of a re- 
criiiJing district, to examine the recruits when brought for inspec- 
tion. In 1799, an order was issued directing that the chirurgical 
testimony of the fitness of a recruit should be certified on the back 
of each attestation. I do not know when a form of attestation, 
which contained a certificate of fitness for the signature of a medical 
officer was introduced, nor have I been able to ascertain at what 
date a medical examination becaine usual, or in some measure in- 
dispensable. In 1805, the commanding officer of a regiment was 
tried by a court-martial for approving of a recruit who had been re- 
jected by the surgeon of the corps, but he was acquitted. The ap- 
proval of a recruit by a medical officer relieves a commanding officer 
of great responsibility; and on that account he should, and no doubt 
will, be very cautious in enlisting a man who has not been found fit 
for the service by competent medical authority. For a long time 
past, I believe no recruit has been admitted into the army without 
undergoing a medical examination; but an approval by a medical 
officer of the corps to which a man belongs, although usual, does 
not appear to be indispensable. 

A new class of medical officers was appointed in 1802, namely, 
district surgeons, who were employed in Great Britain and Ireland 
in the recruiting districts to examine recruits. They were usually 
selected from old regimental or staff- surgeons or apothecaries, 
but sometimes vacancies were filled up from the rank of assistant 
surgeons. Their pay was ten shillings a day without allowances. 
Twenty-six district surgeons were employed in lb08. In conse- 
quence of the recommendation of a board of officers assembled in 
1809, to take into consideration the state of the medical department, 
an order was issued from the Horse Guards, February, 1810, direct- 
ing that the employment of staff-surgeons should supersede that of 
district surgeons in the duties of recruiting districts; but this 
regulation was not to take effect, except as vacancies occurred. 
A staff-surgeon was not appointed to the Dublin district until 1816. 



210 MARSHALL ON THE ENLISTING, ETC. OF SOLDIERS. 

Dr. Hennen, who published the second edition of his work on 
Military Surgery in 1820, states that the regulations for the instruc- 
tion of medical officers connected with the recruiting department, 
contained litrle or nothing to guide them in dubious cases, and that 
consequently much was left to their own discretion ; hence, he adds, 
very striking differences of opinion take place between the examin- 
ing officers as to the fitness of recruits for service, and as the ex- 
penses incurred for recruits who are ultimately found fit for the 
army, fall upon the first medical examiner, he often finds that he is 
a considerable pecuniary sufferer, by his carelessness^ his ignorance^ 
or his ffood nature. 

In 1824, a new code of regulations to medical officers, in regard 
to the inspection of recruits, was promulgated by the medical de- 
partment, and on the 30th July, 1830, the existing instructions were 
issued. 



THE END, 



Dunglison^s American Medical Library. 



BOYLESTON 



PRIZE DISSERTATIONS, 



FOR THE YEARS 1838 AND 1839. 



ON SCROFULA, RHEUMATISM, AND ERYSIPELATOUS 
INFLAMMATION. 



BY EDWARD WARREN, M. D. 

FELLOW OF THE MASSAc6t/sETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
PUBLISHED BY ADAM WALDIE, 46 CARPENTER STREET. 
1840. 



A vote of the Boyleston Prize Committee passed in 1826, requires the 
publication of the following resolution. 

"That the Board do not consider themselves as approving the doctrines 
contained in any of the dissertations to which the premiums mavbe adjudg- 
ed." 



DISSERTATION 



UPON THE QUESTION 



"WHAT IS SCROFULA, AND WHAT IS ITS BEST MODE OF 
TREATMENT/' 



Kunst macht Gunst." 



This disease is one of sufficient antiquity. It was described by 
Celsus, and was known before his time among the Greeks, from 
whom it derived its name, as they supposed it to be communicated 
from swine, among whom it prevailed. 

Its prevalence in England, may be judged of from the fact, that 
in the time of Charles II. ninety-two thousand one hundred and 
seven persons were cured of it, according to Dr. Carr, by the royal 
touch. It; was well known that for many years, this was the grand 
specific for the disease. Writers now treat the account of these 
cures with ridicule; and yet, if we reflect upon the subject, we may 
feel disposed to be somewhat less incredulous. Most of the patients 
were undoubtedly of the lowest class, and extremely ignorant. 
They came from a great distance, from the most remote parts of 
the country, to be cured. To see a real living king, was with them 
far more wonderful than to see a spirit : for in those days spirits 
were common ; but there was only one king in the land. If then 
we place ourselves in their position. if we consider the excitement 
and delight, with which they looked forward to their journey to the 
capital, if we consider what implicit faith they placed in the power 
of the royal touch; can we wonder that so many were cured? 
Have we in the Pharmacopeia, any remedies that possess powers, 
either as alteratives or tonics, equal to such a state of excitement? 
It is not mere imagination, or if it is, it is imagination working in 
a manner we can easily understand and explain. The spirits are 
raised, the languid circulation is quickened, the appetite is improved, 
and the food is well digested. The enthusiastic loyalty with which 
Charles IT. was welcomed on his return, by his devoted partisans, 



4 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

undoubtedly increased in a remarkable degree the sanatory powers 
of his touch. 

If we <r'\ve any credit to the account of these cures, as I think we 
must, we shall be more ready to accede to that view of the disease 
which ascribes its origin in many cases to disorder of the digestive 
organs, such derangements being more than any other under con- 
trol of the mind. But in order to i^x plain and substantiate these 
views, we must proceed in a more ruethodical manner, and may in 
the first place, consider the causes of scrofula. 

Scrofula is of hereditary origin. This may be understood in 
two senses. The most obvious is, that scrofulous parents transmit 
the disease to (heir offspring; i. e. that scrofulous parents have 
scrofulous children. But it is true also in another sense. What- 
ever is a cause of permanent bad health in the parent, either father 
or mother, may produce the scrofulous diathesis in a child. Bad 
habits of living, giving rise to disorders of the digestive organs ; the 
abuse of mercury; the venereal disease; habits of intemperance, 
may all be causes of scrofula in the offspring. 

In such cases, the children are feeble from birth, the textures of 
the various organs are soft and flabby, the organs themselves small 
and of feeble powers, with a tendency to sudden morbid enlarge- 
ment. 

But scrofula is not always hereditary or congenital; it some- 
times originates in an individual previously healthy. It becomes 
an object of enquiry, therefore, what is the cause of the disorder, 
when it arises thus? 

If any proof were wanting of what is generally acknowledged ; 
to wit, the hereditary nature of the affection, we might adduce 
cases in which tubercles have been found in the lungs of a foetus, 
taken from the uterus of a tuberculous parent, who died during 
labour. 

There is no particular temperament upon which scrofula is at- 
tendant. The characters which have been generally assigned to 
scrofulous subjects however, are light coloured, very fine hair, 
skin thin and delicate, under which the vessels are seen meander- 
ing, and often giving an appearance of great delicacy of complexion 
and beauty ; eye-lashes long, pupils dilated, fingers long and thin, 
but broad and flat at the extremities ; tumidity, or thickness of the 
upper lip, and some thickening of the point of the nose, are marks of 
scrofula. The countenance is often swollen, the complexion sal- 
low, and the cheek full, tumid, and flaccid. These appearances 
however, are the consequences, and not the precursors of scrofula. 
Black hair and eyes, and dark complexions, are met with nearly as 
often in the subjects of scrofula, as the opposite characteristics. An 
appearance of languor and debility is the most common attendant 
of the diathesis. 

It is particularly a disease of childhood. Dr. Good, characterises 
it as " appearing in infancy or youth ; subsiding on mature age." 

Its first and most common symptom is indigestion. The child 



^ARREN ON SCROFULA. 



01 an unnealthy or infirm parent; or one that has been 
up by hand, and improperly attended to, or suffered to remain 
an impure atmosphere, early shows symptoms of the disease, and 
some will generally be observed before the tenth year. Dentition is 
often the exciting cause, or the occasion on which it manifests itself. 
This is painful and difficult. The appetite becomes excessive, 
sometimes failing for a time, but in general craving and not easily- 
satisfied. The flesh becomes soft and flabby, the child loses his, 
vivacity, has a languid heavy appearance, is indisposed to play, and' 
soon becomes tired. Most frequently he evinces signs of early in- 
telligence, but in other cases he is dull and stupid. He is fretful, 
and does not sleep quietly; in his sleep, he shows signs of distress 
which might be mistaken for cerebral affection. The bowels are! 
generally confined, and the motions light-coloured and unhealthy. 
The constipation often alternates with diarrhoea, attended with light] 
slimy stools. The functions of the skin are badly performed. The^ 
tongue is red and covered with spots of a still deeper colour. 

In a more advanced period, the throat, fauces and tonsils become! 
affected. Cutaneous diseases of various kinds appear. The eye is] 
the seat of slow inflammations, hordeola, <fcc. The patient is some- 
times subject to hemorrhage, such as epistaxis, dysentery, &c. Irtl 
short, there are all the symptoms and consequences of iuiperfectf 
digestion and assimilation ; the function of nutrition is badly per-J 
formed; the coats of the blood-vessels are lax and void of tone, suf^ 
fering their contents to escape from the minute vessels ; absorptiod| 
is badly performed, languid, and indolent, permitting the formation] 
of tumours and other morbid growths. In early youth, this state 
the system manifests itself in tumours on the neck, and in variout 
parts of the body. These tumours are of an indolent nature, 
main long stationary, but at length come to suppuration, and fori 
open ulcers or fistulas, which are difficult to heal. At a later period; 
tubercles are formed in the lungs. 

The lymphatic glandular system is generally considered as the] 
particular seat of scrofula: although every tissue of the body 
liable to become affected. The glands in the neck and mesentery,^ 
the spongy parts of the bones, and the lungs, are especially liable U 
become affected. 

We have alluded to two theories, with regard to the origin an( 
nature of scrofula. One places it in disorder of the digestive func- 
tions, particularly of those of the liver. The other places it i] 
congenital debility. There is a third theory, which considers 
scrofula as a state of ill health produced by a deficient supply oij 
red blood, and a consequent preponderance of w^hite fluids anc' 
tissues. The different forms of the disease are, according to thij 
view, only local exhibitions of irritation, modified by the predispo- 
sition ; but which irritation, in healthy subjects, would at most pro- 
duce simple inflammation. The manner in which it is transmitted] 
from parent to offspring, is accounted for on this principle, by the 
deficiency of the red tissues being transmitted. It may occasionally 



b BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

pass over one generation, and appear in the next, (upon the same 
theory,) because the intervening generation has not been exposed to 
the causes, such as privation of light, fresh air, wholesome food, 
&.C. which call the scrofulous diathesis into action. 

The first of these opinions is supported by hi<j^h authority that 
of Sir Astley Cooper. According to him, the character and origin 
of scrofula is debility ; the disease in its progress becomes inflam- 
matory, but it is connected with original weakness. Scrofulous 
diseases undergo all the different processes of inflammation, the 
adhesive, the suppurative, and the ulcerative, andsometimes, though 
more rarely, the gangrenous. All these processes are irregularly 
performed. The adhesive matter secreted in scrofulous affections, 
instead of being firm, consists of a curd-like substance, easily broken 
and very soft, and this is owing to the blood-vessels not entering it. 
The suppuration contains curd-like matter, and is not truly puru- 
lent. Ulceration is slow in its progress ; granulations are unequal 
and slow in forming. These processes are the effect of inflamma- 
tion, but they are imperfectly performed, owing to debility. Scro- 
fulous differs from chronic inflammation from its being congenital. 
Chronic inflammation occurs after growth has stopped ; scrofulous 
during growth. The blood is less firm; the crassamentum loosely 
formed and coacfulates weakly, the quantity of serum abundant, and 
the solids are feebly formed. There is extreme attenuation of the 
muscles, owing to their fibres being delicately formed ; the cellular 
tissue thin ; the heart weak, and not having the appearance of a 
healthy organ. The arteries have loose coats and easily s^ive way, 
so that an injection will not reach the extreme vessels. The mem- 
branes of the stomach and intestinal canal are thin and pellucid ; 
the absorbent glands enlarged, the secretory glands flaccid but not 
diseased, and the nervous system sometimes exhibits marks of irri- 
tation. According to Sir Astley, the liver and the kidneys are not 
affected. 

Sir A. Cooper, both in his description and in his treatment of the 
disease, goes farther than most men, in considering it the result of 
debility; farther, may we say, than consistency warrants? He 
considers that the particular affections are the result of inflamma- 
tion ; and most other writers think, that on that account it requires 
antiphlogistic treatment, as long as inflammatory symptoms are 
present. He however, recommends a highly nourishing, and even 
stimulant diet in every case. It is probable, nevertheless, that in 
practice, he would make exceptions to this plan of treatment, which 
the brevity with which his ideas are communicated to us prevents: 
were it otherwise, we should not venture to dispute his precepts. 
What we derive from him, are the lessons of sound judgment and 
experience, not of theory. 

The views of this distinguished surgeon we understand then to 
be, that the subjects of scrofula are born with the organs feebly 
formed; loose in their texture, generally of small size, and incapa- 
ble of the vigorous performance of their functions. This acc'^^?'^-' 



J 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 7 

of the disease does not disagree with the probability of the feeble- 
ness being the result of the causes in the parent, which have been 
mentioned above. Nor does it interfere with the assertion, that it 
can be obviated, or matured in childhood, by attention to the im- 
provement of the digestive functions, or by means which produce 
derangement in those functions. If these are well performed, the 
slight and feeble organs will be strengthened and rendered robust, 
and will become possessed of vigorous powers ; but if the digestion 
continues languid, it is in vain to attempt to improve the condition 
of the other functions. Pure air, proper diet, sufficient clothing, 
exercise in the open air, cold bathing, (fcc, will increase the tone of 
the stomach, rouse the digestive powers into activity, through the 
medium of the skin, and thus remove the debility. Disorder of the 
digestive functions acts upon those of the skin, and disturbances 
in the latter cannot long exist without a deranged condition of the 
former. 

According to Mr. Carmichael,disorder of the chylopoietic viscera 
invariably precedes and accompanies scrofula; and there are 
grounds for supposing the existence of such a state, in a very great 
majority of cases, to be the immediate cause of the disease. Mr. 
Lloyd gives several cases in proof of the effects of bad diet in caus- 
ing the complaint. Abernethy also attributes it to digestive disor- 
der, and adduces cases of children with scrofulus abscesses cured 
merely by attention to the digestive org:ans. 

Dr. S. J. Todd, (in his article on Strumous Dyspepsia, in the 
Cyclop. Pract. Med.) considers scrofula as originating in disorder 
of the organs of digestion. The phenomena of the disease, he 
thinks, sufficiently indicate a congestion of the hepatic system. 
And that the supposition of a plethora in the vena portarum, both 
in its roots and branches, would sufficiently account for all the 
symptoms. Hence the condition of the mucous surfaces of the in- 
testines, which are full of blood. The duodenum is especially lia- 
ble to inflammation. This disposition to abdominal congestion is 
transmitted from father to son, especially by the dyspeptic and hy- 
pocondriac. The views of Dr. Todd are confirmed and supported 
by Sir James Clark. The latter was the first who called the atten- 
tion of physicians to the particular state of the digestive organs, in 
what he calls the Tubercular Cachexy. He defines itas,^ "a mor- 
bid condition of the general system, hereditary in some, and in 
others induced by a series of functional derangements, ultimately 
affecting the whole animal economy." The digestive organs, he 
says, are very generally more or less deranged, though the degree 
and nature of the derangement differ in different cases. It will be 
understood, however, that while both these writers maintain the in- 
variable, or almost invariable, coincidence of dyspepsia with the 
strumous diathesis, the theory with regard to the connection of the 
liver with this condition of the system, is advanced with some 

' On the Influence of Climate. 



8 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

degree of hesitation. A plethoric state of the abdominal vessels is 
allowed to exist by most writers. 

Dr. W. Philip remarks, that the sympathy of the lungs with the 
liver is stronger than with any other organ ; hence, he believes, 
that what are called bilious complaints lay the foundation of half 
the cases of consumption; affections of the stomach only producing 
disease in the lungs, by giving rise to derangements in the liver. 
Now, if it be true, that disordered digestion, originating in, or kept 
up by hepatic disease, exists in most cases of scrofula, or tubercu- 
lous cachexy, we can readily understand why the lungs are the fa- 
vourite seat of tubercles. 

In tubercular phthisis it is well known that the liver is frequently 
affected. In the post mortem examinations of M. Louis, fatty de- 
generation of the liver was found in one third of the cases. The 
liver in these cases is found enlarged, and of less consistence than 
natural. But great functional derangement of the liver may exist 
without any organic lesion. 

We have thus considered pretty much at leno^th, two of the 
theories with regard to the origin and nature of scrofula. The third 
theory, which places it in the preponderance of the white tissues 
and fluids over the red, we will postpone until after we have con- 
sidered the causes which may generate the diathesis, in individuals 
in whom it is not congenital or hereditary. As " what is scrofula?" 
forms one of the two divisions of our inquiry, a digression and sub- 
sequent return to this part of our subject, we hope will meet with 
indulgence. 

Improper Diet. We shall then, in the first place, consider the 
effect of unsuitable food as a cause of the disease. This alone may 
not be sufficient to produce scrofula; but combined with other causes 
it will prove a fertile source of mischief, the final result of which 
will be the diathesis in question. Fortunate it is for children, that 
the stomach assumes the office of its own guardian, and readily re- 
jects whatever is liable to offend it. Otherwise how few children 
would live beyond the period of infancy ! The stomach and diges- 
tive organs must have a great power, even at the earliest age, of 
adapting itself to the food which is offered to it. Still, the child 
must have nutritive food of some kind in sufficient quantity, or the 
want of it will weaken the stomach and the other organs of diges- 
tion, and, through them, the whole system. Moreover, though the 
stomach will reject improper food, yet the frequent necessity of so 
doing is attended with permanent injury, and the sensibility of this 
organ will be either morbidly increased or it will be deadened. 
Where the food is not so repugnant to the digestive organs as to 
excite vomiting, a more gradual injury will be occasioned, and the 
food, imperfectly digested, will be passed on to other organs, and 
noxious ingredients will be mixed with the blood, and the other 
fluids of the economy. Chylifaction is interfered with, and the as- 
similative functions must suffer. In the robust, healthy child, of 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 9 

lieallhy parents, the vig^orous performance of the digestive functions 
will go on for a considerable time, especially if it enjoy pure air. 
light and moderate exercise ; but eventually, it will lose fiesh, and 
become pale, emaciated and unhealthy. In the case of infants 
where the mother has no milk or not sufficient for its nourishment, 
the child more frequently suffers from being injudiciously fed than 
from want of food. When it suffers from insufficient nourishment, 
it is most commonly in the case where the mother has sufficient 
milk, but of poor quality. The effect of the deficiency when this 
cause occurs, is obvious. The stomach loses its tone, the chylo- 
poietic and the lymphatic vessels their vigour, the body is imperfectly 
nourished, and languor, emaciation, and debility of all the organs 
and tissues ensues. The effect of too much or too little food is very 
similar. The stomach and other organs concerned in the first acts 
of digestion, are deranged and weakened in either case, and do not 
supply the various parts of the body with nourishment. Hence 
occurs that slate of debility, which is considered as the essence of 
scrofula : and hence also that want of richness of the blood which 
gives the preponderance of the white tissues over the rest. We have 
said that a want of nutritive matter in the milk is a cause of disease 
in the child ; too rich milk is equally so. 

In the child of healthy parents, which is exempt from other causes 
of scrofula, improper or insufficient food will be more likely to oc- 
casion other diseases than this ; but, in proportion as the health of 
the parents is bad, or the child feeble from birth, and to the degree 
in which this cause is combined with those hereafter to be mention- 
ed, will be the tendency to produce scrofula. Where there is a 
predisposition to this condition, a bad diet will readily develope it. 

Impure Air. This is the next in importance to that which has 
just been considered. Dr. Alison attributes more importance to 
this, than to improper food. It is undoubtedly difficult to ascertain 
exactly how much each of these causes, and those afterwards to be 
mentioned, has to do with the production of the diathesis in question, 
for they seldom exist separately. In the poor Irish families who 
live among us, can any thing" be worse than the diet of the children '} 
They seldom suffer from deficient food it is true, but it is of the 
most improper quality. As to their cleanliness, it is much the same 
with that of the swine, with whom they are sometimes reared ; yet 
exercise in the open air they have abundantly, and indigestion is 
comparatively rare. It is our impression that scrofula is rare among! 
this class; diseases among children certainly are so. They make 
much fewer calls upon the attendance of a physician, even when 
that attendance is gratuitous, than parents in the higher and middle 
classes. 

In order that respiration may be properly performed, pure air is 
essential. Whatever interferes with respiration, prevents the for- 
mation of blood suited to the purposes of nourishment. Perhaps 
there is another way in which an unhealthy or impure air acts upon 
13 d hd 2 



10 BOTLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

the system, through the cutaneous organs. Pure air as well as 
cleanliness is necessary to support the tone of the vessels of the skin. 
In a crowded city, the air is rendered iuipure by the various sub- 
stances that become mixed with it, and which caniiot be breathed 
witliout injury to the lungs. When it is considered that the action 
of this agent is constant and incessant, althoutrh its etlects are im- 
perceptible and inappreciable, we cannot hesitate to ascribe to it 
great importance. Children confined in badly lighted and ill-venti- 
jated apartments, are uniformly unhealthy. Like plants which are 
kept in the dark, they become blanched and sickly. It is perhaps 
impossible to understand the effect of light upon the atmosphere, or 
upon the animated creation, yet we know that it is essential. The 
respirable quality of the air, it is well known, depends upon the 
presence of oxygen. This is given out by vegetables, while they 
are acted upon by the sun, and it is also furnished by the decompo- 
sition of water. Hence the air of the country is so much more pure 
than that of cities, where thousands of lungs are constantly con- 
suming: oxygen, and emitting carbonic acid gas. Theetfect of pri- 
vation of light is evinced in those whose pursuits confine them to 
dark apartments, or to labour below ground. The blanched and 
sickly appearance of such persons, is analogous to that of plants 
which have been kept in a cellar. The best preventive and cure 
that has yet been found for scrofula, the only one that has met with 
the sanction of general experience, is a residence in the country, or 
in the neighbourhood of the sea shore, where the air is of course 
free from all sources of impurity. Pure air is the best tonic whic 
has yet been found. M. Baudelocque maintains that impure air is 
the sole cause of scrofula. In this he goes farther than we are will- 
ing to follow him: impure air is undoubtedly a source of much 
mischief, but there are other causes which operate as powerfully in 
the production of the diathesis in question. Children who are 
brought up by hand, in a city, seldom do well ; in the country their 
chance of living and thriving is much greater, because the purity of 
the air renders the digestive powers more vigorous. 

Exercise. The necessity of exercise for children, as well as 
fresh air, is sufficiently understood by the higher and middle classes 
among us ; and a little wagon for the daily use of the child is pro- 
vided almost as early as the cradle. It is to be feared that among 
the lower classes, it is not so much attended to. The want of time 
renders it necessary for them to dispose of their children in the best 
manner they can, but perhaps in general the same end is answered, 
as they are carried about from place to place with their mothers. 
The individuals who suffer most from want of exercise, are females 
of an older age, and in a superior station in society. Girls at school 
who are seated at their studies for five or six hours in succession^ 
and whose habits incline them to little active exercise at other times 
and even those who have not the advantages of school education, 
sufffer much from the sedentary nature of their avocations. These 



I 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 

Rniegrees necessary evils. The propriety and aencacy 
which are so highly esteemed in the sex, seclude them from the 
active sports to which boys are accustomed. In attempting to 
remedy the disadvantages of their situation, there is danger of oc- 
casioning the loss of those graces, and that softness and delicacy 
which are the peculiar excellences of the female character. As far 
as it can be done, however, active exercise should be made a part 
of female education. From their sedentary habits in childhood and 
youth, arise dyspepsia, scrofula, spinal curvature, and consumption. 
Hence the much greater frequency of phthisis and scrofula in fe- 
males. It is unnecessary to enlarge upon the effect of want of exer- 
cise. Constipation, indigestion, hepatic congestion, imperfect assi- 
milation, are the well known consequences of this want, and these 
produce that debility m which scrofula consists. 

Over Fatigue, on the other hand, is a source of scrofula. If a 
child be over-worked, the system is debilitated, and the functions of 
digestion and assimilation are weakened, in as great a degree as 
when exercise is withheld. 

Imperfect Clothing is a cause of thedevelopement of scrofula; 
for if the minute vessels of the skin are exposed to excessive cold, 
they cannot perform their proper functions ; and hence the blood 
becomes stagnant in the larger vessels, and produces congestion in 
the internal organs. 

Intemperance is a prolific source of this diathesis. It is re- 
marked by English writers, that the better diet which the lower 
classes now enjoy than formerly, is counteracted by the increased 
use of ardent spirits. It is well known that intemperance is the 
frequent cause of cachexy, and hence of consumption. 

Mental Affections. Intense study, by exhausting the nerv- 
ous powers, deprives the various organs of that proportion of the 
nervous influence, which is requisite for the proper performance of 
their functions. Depressing passions or emotions, disappointments, 
loss of friends, loss of property, and slighted affection, are causes 
first of that languid state of body and mind, in which the coun- 
tenance becomes blanched and sodden, the appetite lost, the diges- 
tion impaired, and all the functions of the body badly performed. 
That these causes chiefly affect the female sex, is natural first, be- 
cause their habits are more sedentary and secluded; and secondly, 
because they are not called into the bustle and turmoil of the world, 
but allowed to meditate upon sorrowful subjects, until grief becomes 
the permanent habit of the mind. Washington Irving has well and 
touchingly described the gradation by which death is produced in 
such cases, in alluding to the instances of females running to waste 
and self neglect, and disappearinggradually from the earth, through 
the progressive stages of mental affection, melancholy, languor, de- 
bility, cold, and consumption. 



12 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

Use op Hard Water. Cullen, Heberden, Dr. Lambe, and Sir 
James Clark, are the principal writers who have noticed the use 
of hard water as a cause of scrofula. Dr. Lambe' has gone very 
fully into this subject. Heberden mentions the case of a patient 
who became scrofulous, after using hard water for a few years ; and 
continued so as long as he used it, but upon leaving it off, all the 
scrofulous symptoms left him. The instance quoted in a note to 
Heberden's remarks on this subject, has been often alluded to. The 
original is to be found in the memoirs of the Royal Society of Me- 
dicine at Paris. 

"The inhabitants of Rheims had been so long afflicted with 
strumous diseases, that they maintained a hospital for the sile pur- 
pose of curing such patients. They then made use of no other water 
than what they had from their wells. After a machine was con- 
structed, which brought the water from a neighbouring river, and 
distributed it into all quarters of the town, it was observed that 
scrofulous disorders became less frequent, and in the space of thirty 
years, the number of these patients was reduced to onehalf of what 
it had usually been : it continued to decrease so fast, as to give oc- 
casion for thinking that the greater part of the revenues of the hos- 
pital might be applied to other purposes." 

The effects of the water we drink, as well as the air we breathe, 
are insensible and inappreciable. Hence it is difficult to convince 
the sceptical, that impure air and water, or at least water that does 
not appear impure to the sight and taste, can be in any degree in- 
jurious to health. The question, however, is one worthy of more 
serious attention than it has as yet met with, how far this is a cause 
of disease? It is a cause, if it be one, incessantly in operation, and 
producing its effects gradually and insidiously. The facts mention- 
ed by Heberden and Lambe, prove that water may contain ingre- 
dients, which excite or develope a scrofulous habit. The analyses 
of chemists show that much matter is to be found in it, injurious to 
health. If in any degree noxious, the constancy with which this 
cause operates, makes it of very serious importance. Experience 
has proved that in our city, many persons who have long suffered 
from dyspepsia have been cured, simply by making use of rain 
water, instead of that of the wells. Now if the use of hard water is 
productive of dyspepsia in adults, its action in developing a scro- 
fulous habit in children must be very much greater. 

The Abuse of Mercury leads to the formation of the cachexia 
in question ; and in a similar manner, secondary syphilis when eradi- 
cated from the system, will often leave it in a cachectic state, which 
may truly be considered scrofulous. In a still greater degree will 
either of these causes operate in producing a scrofulous constitution 
in the offspring. 

Any one of the causes above considered may be insufficient in 

* Inquiry into ihe Origin, etc. of Constit. Diseases. 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 13 

itself to produce scrofula in the healthy child of healthy parents; 
but in proportion to their combination will the diathesis more or 
less certainly be induced. Bad diet, impure air, deficient exercise, 
are each sufficient to develope the disease in those who are predis- 
posed to it from birth. 

The predisposition to scrofula in children^ exists in various de- 
grees. The slightest degree exists when the health of the parent is 
merely deteriorated, and the child at birth appears healthy. In 
others, mere functional derangements exist, which, unless they are 
checked in time, generate scrofula. In the third degree, the child 
when born exhibits all the marks of the scrofulous diathesis. In 
the fourth, the scrofulous cachexy is already formed, and the child 
may die tuberculous. In the fifth, tubercles exist in the lungs at 
birth. 

Although, therefore, a scrofulous diathesis may be originated in 
the manner which has been described, we do not maintain, that in 
the majority of cases it is generated in the child, without predispo- 
sition. On the contrary, we believe, that in the greater number of 
cases, this diathesis is attributable to predisposition, derived not 
always from a scrofulous constitution in either parent^ but from a 
state of ill health of any kind. In some families, the elder children 
have been healthy, and the younger scrofulous, owing to loss o 
health in the father or mother, between the birth of the former and 
latter. Disordered digestion, gout, cutaneous diseases, the abuse of 
mercury, debility, advanced age, weakness of the genital organs; 
whatever in short may interfere with the processes of generation, 
conception, gestation, or the nourishment of the foetus, may produce a 
predisposition in the infant. Scrofula is particularly the disease of 
infancy, and the period of growth; after maturity its developement 
is comparatively rare. 

It has been remarked by some writers, that where the disease 
exists in one parent, the child often escapes, and the question has 
arisen, whether a child may be supposed to partake most of the dis- 
position of his father or mother. Some have attributed the greatest 
share to ooe parent, and some to the other ; while a third class sup- 
pose that a child may be reasonably thought to share most of the 
parent, whom he most resembles in person. 

If now we take a retrospective view of the causes that produce the 
scrofulous diathesis, we shall find that they are the same with those 
that produce indigestion, only that they act with more power upon 
a child who has the hereditary disposition generated in the manner 
we have described. In such an one, the disease is sooner develop- 
ed and manifested ; but it is not less certain that the same causes 
operating for a sufficient length of time, will produce the cachexX 
in question. Indigestion may in many cases be regarded as th 
first stage of the disease. 

If we examine scrofulous patients, we shall almost invariably find 

Sir James Clark. 



14 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

the powers of digestion impaired. A scrofulous person who had a 
healthy appetite and digested and assimilated his food perfectly well, 
would bean anomaly; nay more, he would be a contradiction, for 
where these functions were well performed, the patient could not be 
scrofulous. But it may be said, scrofula is the cause of dyspepsia, 
not the effect of it. The dehility of tlie system presents perfect 
digestion, and the digestive organs become involved through the 
means of other organs, the heart, lungs, etc. However this may be, 
the imperfect performance of the digestive function must keep up 
and aggravate the cachexia. As long as no organic lesion has taken 
place, as long as there is only debility of the organs, if we can but 
give vigour to the digestive powers, we may give strength to the 
whole system. 

We may now return to the consideration of the theories of the 
disease, and particularly to the third which we proposed to discuss ; 
namely, the preponderance of the white fluids over the red. Sir 
James Clark, in his work on climate, states his belief that a small 
heart is the frequent predisposing cause of consumption, and in his 
more recent work, he notices the serous condition of the blood, and 
its deficiency of fibrine, which has been pointed out by Andral. 
This condition of the blood has given rise to the views which are 
briefly stated by Dr. Maunsell, who attributes scrofula to the pre- 
ponderance of the lymphatic over the arterial system. The strength 
of the individual, his vital powers, and capacity of resisting disease, 
he remarks, are in the reverse proportion to this preponderance of 
the white tissues. It is well known that individuals of sanguine 
constitution and full of red blood, are the most robust, and that those 
of a pale, white countenance, are uniformly feeble and unhealthy. 
Whatever favours the developement of this preponderance of the 
lymphatic system, is, therefore, a cause of scrofula. Confinement in 
a damp situation, with a diminution of light and fresh air, is be- 
lieved by those who hold this opinion to be a principal cause of 
scrofula. 

Neither of these three theories is irreconcileable with the other. 
Debility from birth is not in all cases a sufficient cause of 
scrofula. The preponderance of the white tissues is to be attri- 
buted to the want of fibrine, and colouring matter in the blood, 
which may be considered as arising from imperfect digestion : for 
let the action of the heart and lungs be healthy, still if the stomach 
and its dependent organs do not perform their functions properly, 
the blood will not be perfectly formed, and will be deficient in its 
proper qualities. 

That scrofulous children are apt to be of small size, or, if of na- 
tural size, with organs small, thin, loose in texture, with feeble 
capacities for the discharge of their functions, is naturally to be in- 
ferred from what has been said of the causes of congenital predis- 
position to wit: whatever causes may interfere with tlie develope- 
ment and growth of the foetus. The main difference between the 
two first mentioned theories is, therefore, that those who hold the 



i 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. * ' 15 

former, place more weight in hereditary predisposition, while the 
latter allow more to the action of subsequent causes, in the early 
education and reo^inien of the child. Those who attribute most 
importance to the disorder of the dio^estive organs, do not deny the 
debility of the organs in many cases at birth. On the other hand, 
those wfio place particular stress upon this congenital condition, are 
wiUinor to allow that it may be corrected, by proper management 
in infancy. Sir Astley Cooper, considers care and attention in in- 
fancy, as important and effectual, as do those who think most of 
the dyspeptic symptoms. 

It is stated by some writers, that scrofula will sometimes lay dor- 
mant during one generation, and break out in another. This idea 
probably origfinated in the belief that scrofula consisted in an acrid 
humour. There can be no doubt that an individual may pass 
through life without evincing any signs of a scrofulous habit, un- 
less it were a delicacy of constitution, and a want of vigour he 
may even have tubercles latent in the lungs, without their ever 
manifesting their existence ; merely because he has not been ex- 
posed to the excitino; causes of the disease; and the offspring of 
this parent may be scrofulous. But if the descendant of scrofulous 
parents be vigorous or if the strumous disposition be counteracted 
before tubercles are formed, or any organic change takes place 
and if he subsequently shows no disposition to scrofula, we cannot 
readily understand how he can communicate it to his offspring. 

Children born of a mother suffering from scrofulous disease at 
the time of her confinement, have in some cases shown no tendency 
to the affection : even when the mother has died of it within a short 
time after their birth. 

The essential characteristic of scrofula is the tendency to form 
tumours, which suppurate and become filled with a matter, which 
is first pale and watery, but soon becomes thick and yellowish, of 
a cheesy or curd-like consistence, similar to the strumous or tuber- 
culous matter found in the lungs, and which Dr. Carswell de- 
scribes, as a pale yellow, or yellowish gray, opaque, unorganised 
substance; the form, consistence and composition of which vary 
with the nature of the part in which it is formed, and the period at 
which it is examined. 

These tumours appear in childhood most frequently in the neck 
in the lymphatic glands, or in the mesentery. At a later period, 
the breast, the testicles, or the prostate gland, may be affected. The 
spongy portions of the bones, are next in frequency the seat of scro- 
fula. In childhood, discharges from the ear, from the vagina, and 
an affection of the eye, are common. 

Lymph AT [c Glands. The swelling of these glands may be 
first detected, when they are no larger than a pea. They are hard, 
moveable, give no pain when touched, and often continue for a 
great length of time without any increase. When it does begin, its 
progress is slow, and it often remains one or two years, hard and 



61 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

not painful, before the skin inflames. It occupies a gland in the 
neighbourhood of the lower jaw, and frequently there are many 
glands affected, forming a chain from ear to ear. Sometimes the 
swelling subsides by absorption or resolution, but, in general, it 
has a tendency to soften and produce a whey-like fluid. Some- 
times the parotid, sometimes the thyroid gland is thus affected. 
Encysted tumours are formed containing a whey-like or curdy 
fluid which is sometimes absorbed; and the glands resume their 
natural size. Suppuration advances slowly, and when the abscess 
has burst, a sore is formed with indurated edges, which emits a 
thin fluid, containing curdy flakes, and occasionally small masses 
of tuberculous matter. An ulcer is thus formed, which it is diffi- 
cult to heal, and often continues for a great length of time ; or heals 
in one part and breaks out in another. The cicatrices are wrinkled 
and irregular, often crossed by projecting bands of skin, and pro- 
ducing much deformity. In its early stage, the gland is hard and 
firm it enlarges apparently by a thickening of its cellular struc- 
ture ; and soon becomes penetrated by a great number of vessels, 
and is redder than natural. The whole structure becomes altered 
and destroyed, and scrofulous matter is deposited in its place. 

At other times, the gland is softened, less uniform in texture, and 
appears composed of two kinds of matter, one resembling curd, and 
the other softer, less opaque, and of a light yellow colour. A small 
quantity of pus is found about the centre. Sometimes there are 
small abscesses containing scrofulous matter, in the body of the 
enlarged gland. The matter makes its way to the surface and the 
gland becomes a large abscess. The covering of the gland next 
inflames, the inflammation spreads to the surrounding parts, and 
the whole gland becomes destroyed by suppuration. The suppu- 
ration sometimes takes place around the new formed matter of the 
gland, which may be seen through the aperture, by which the con- 
tents of the abscess have been discharged. Heberden says that these 
glands have sometimes continued diseased for twenty years, with- 
out coming to suppuration. 

The swelling of the glands in the neck often comes on without 
any known exciting cause, and unattended with other scrofulous 
symptoms, but it is often preceded by, or attended with, irritation 
upon the head, or inflammation of the mucous membrane of the 
nostrils. The irritation extends thence to the upper lip, and by its 
continuance produces that thickening which is one of the marks of 
the disease. 

Scrofulous Mesenteric Glands. (Tabes mesenterica). 
From the period of dentition, until about the tenth or twelfth year, 
children are liable to an enlargement of the glands of the mesen- 
tery, which is generally if not always scrofulous. Next to the 
glands of the neck, these are said to be most frequently the seat of 
scrofulous disease. The most marked characteristic of this affec- 
tion is prominence of the abdomen, attended with emaciation of 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 17 

the limbs. This sign, however, is not always found, the glands 
being frequently diseased when there is no decided prominence of 
the abdomen. Enlarged and even suppurating glands have been 
met with, where the children have continued in good health and 
condition until a short time before death. The glands in this situ- 
ation exhibit the various appearances in the different stages of the 
disease, that are observed in other parts from the increase of vas- 
cularity, to the formation of pus and of tuberculous matter. Some- 
times they are only a little enlarged, reddened, and softer than na- 
tural, but otherwise of normal appearance. In other cases, a soft, 
white, curdy matter, sometimes mixed with pus, is found in them. 

Emaciation is the most marked character of the disease : but 
while the tumours remain indolent, this does not become remark- 
able. When the glands soften and begin to suppurate, irritation of 
the abdominal viscera is excited, and a disturbance of the digestive 
functions induced. The morbid state of the glands probably inter- 
feres with the formation of chyle. 

The only sure diagnostic of the disease, however, is the percep- 
tion of the enlarged glands by manual examination, through the 
walls of the abdomen. This can only be done in an advanced 
stage. 

At an early period it is only to be suspected from circumstances. 
Any symptoms of intestinal disorder, in scrofulous children, should 
call attention to these glands. If the patient recovers slowly, is 
subject to relapses, has a craving appetite and at the same time 
continues to emaciate, we may suspect an enlargement of the me- 
senteric glands ; especially if these symptoms are attended with 
fulness and hardness of the belly. The appetite is voracious but 
capricious, the stools white and chalky, and worms are common. 

In the last stage of the disorder, inflammation of the peritoneum 
and effusion into the abdomen may take place, but inflammation 
and ulceration of the mucous membrane are more frequent. Pus is 
frequently found in the stools, and there is constant diarrhoea. The 
child dies highly emaciated. Tubercles are frequently found in 
the lungs. 

Ophthalmia. Scrofulous children are very liable to inflamma- 
tion of the tunica conjunctiva. The edges of the eyelids are at 
first slightly red and thickened ; and the secretion of the Meibomian 
glands increased, so as to glue the lids together during sleep. On 
everting the lids, we find the conjunctiva covering them somewhat 
redder than natural, while upon the globe a few red vessels are per- 
ceived. As the inflammation increases, the membrane becomes 
more vascular ; the eye watering and very intolerant of light. 
The latter symptom is remarkable ; the patient cannot be prevailed 
upon to raise her eyes to the light, but walks with her head bent 
down ; and acquires a stooping position, that will indicate the ex- 
istence of the complaint, even when the face is not seen. 

In children, (according to Mackenzie) ninety cases out of one' 



18 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

hundred of ophthalmia, are scrofulous. It is very often the first 
manifestation of a scrofulous constitution. It is most frequent from 
the aofe of weaning to about eight years. 

The redness of the conjunctiva is at first slight, and often con- 
fined to tile lids only; sometimes the vessels running from the 
conjunctiva to the cornea appear slightly injected ; in others, en- 
larj;ed vessels are perceived : so that in the incipient state the dis- 
ease is distinguished more by intolerance of light, than by any 
direct signs of inflatnmation. There is a strong disposition to the 
formation of pustules, which appear upon many points of the lids, 
and in the Meibomian glands run to ulceration and produce great 
irritation. They also appear in the conjunctiva and cornea, and a 
pencil of red vessels is developed in each cornea; these pustules 
open, and an ulcer is formed which is sometimes deep, and pene- 
trates into the substance of, or through the cornea. A general dulness 
or permanent opacity is also produced, which may end in total 
blindness. The pustules or ulcers may be absorbed, and then, if 
upon the cornea, they leave a little cloudiness, but this is absorbed 
in time. Sometimes, after this is removed, a transparent dimple is 
left in the cornea, which is long in filling up. In some cases, we 
see the "albugo begin to spread over the cornea in an irregular 
manner, pretty considerable red vessels running into it, and addi- 
tional lymph being supplied to it, so as to form a vascular speck, a 
very tedious and troublesome symptom."^ The pustules however 
often break, and as ulcers become very distressing and formidable. 
They are very painful, especially upon motion of the lids. The 
excessive intolerance of light is the most striking feature in the 
complaint, and sometimes exists almost alone. Sometimes, how- 
ever, very severe pain is felt during the night, so that the child 
wakes from sleep in great distress. A spasmodic contraction of the 
lids, and epiphora, are other common symptoms. 

Dr. Maunsell notices an appearance which he thinks has not 
been described by other writers. This is a removal of a patch of 
the conjunctiva, which covers the cornea, without producing any 
opacity. It appears as if a piece had been removed with a sharp 
chisel. This may continue unaltered for a length of time. 

The iris is sometimes the subject of scrofulous inflammation: 
the choroid and retina still more rarely. 

Discharges prom the Ear. The external ear is very fre- 
quently affected in children. The lining membrane becomes in- 
flamed and ulcerated, or affected with pustules, which suppurate 
and produce a chronic discharge of unhealthy and fetid pus. This 
is always dangerous, as it may cause ulceration of the tympanum, 
discharge of the auditory bones, and incurable deafness. Sometimes 
it involvCvS the petrous portion of the temporal bone, penetrates the 

* Mackenzie. 



i 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 19 

cavity of the skull, and occasions sudden convulsions, and certain 
death. 

Scrofulous Discharges from the Vagina are of not unfre- 
quent occurrence in children, and are liable to be mistaken for 
gonorrhoBa. They consist of purulent, or muco-purulent matter, 
and are only to be distinguished by an attention to the general ap- 
pearance and constitution of the child, in whom we shall generally 
find other marks of the scrofulous diathesis. 

Such are the principal parts which are attacked during infancy. 
Cutaneous affections of the head are very common, and assume 
every variety. Porrigo seems to be, at least among us, one of the 
most common forms. We very frequently sfee scrofulous children, 
with a constant discharge from the ears inflamed eyelids, and the 
head covered with porrigo. 

Breasts. In females of a more advanced age, both before and 
after menstruation has occurred, the breast is sometimes affected. 
Mr. Lloyd speaks of it as rather common. Sir Astley Cooper, 
whose experience of course is infinitely greater, considers it rare. 
The natural conclusion is, that the tumours considered scrofulous 
by Mr. Lloyd and others, are not so considered by him. Dr. War- 
ren has given several cases.^ He describes it as occurring in young 
females of slender shape, and weak constitutions, forming a tumour 
of a flattened rather than rounded shape, smooth on the surface, 
but irregular on the edges. It is free from tenderness and pain, 
until suppuration commences. It is of slow growth, and if the pa- 
tient has good health, and is able to take exercise, it disappears 
after a time. The skin is not discoloured until after it has begun 
to suppurate. In some cases it comes on suddenly, infla[nes, sup- 
purates, and forms a protracted abscess. This often terminates in 
a fi.stulous passage, extending deeply into the gland. The produc- 
tion of scrofulous matter must be considered as the test of the na- 
ture of the tumour. The gland when first perceived to be affected 
is a small, hard, moveable lump. It goes through much the same 
course that has been already described, whilst speaking of the 
glands of the neck. 

Testicle. The testicle is subject to scrofulous enlarsfement, 
between the ages of seventeen and twenty-two particularly, in two 
different ways : either from intestinal absorption in the parenchyma, 
or from a simple expansion in the natural structure of the gland. 
It is common for small abscesses containing a curdy matter, to 
form in the substance of the gland, and continue. The substance 
of the gland between the different abscesses preserves its density. 
The matter is contained in cysts. In' the second form, the gland 
becomes entirely absorbed, and its place is supplied with caseous 

' On Tumours. 



30 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

matter. Sometimes the tumour is made up of several masses, each 
mass being covered with a cyst. The coats of the testicle continue 
unaltered. The pain is not severe, until the coats are attacked. 
Absorption sometimes takes place, the matter is removed, and the 
gland resumes its natural size. In other cases, suppuration and 
absorption go on until the whole gland is removed. Sometimes 
both testicles disappear. Sometimes a superficial abscess forms, 
and after a time the testicle resumes its natural size. Sometimes 
fistulas are formed. When the matter has come away the abscess 
heals. 

Prostate. This is also subject to scrofulous enlargement and 
disease. Dr. Baillie found it, in some cases, converted into a fleshy 
tumour, with abscesses in the centre. In young men it sometimes 
becomes enormously enlarged. It is attended with irritation of the 
urethra and bladder, stricture of the urethra, (fee. 

Bones. Scrofula, as has been already mentioned, attacks the 
spongy portions of the bones, such as the heads of the long bones, 
the bones of the carpi, tarsi, and the bodies of the vertebrae. The 
vascularity of the affected bone is at first increased ; while the 
earthy matter becomes less. At first, a transparent fluid, and after- 
wards a cheesy matter, is deposited in the cancelli. The disease 
often commences in the centre, and the exterior remains hard. 
Vessels carrying red blood are sometimes seen extending into the 
cartilage. The cartilage ulcerates in spots, the ulceration begin- 
ning on the surface, in contact with the bones, and proceeding 
slowly. A portion of the diseased bone sometimes exfoliates. As 
the disease advances, serum and afterwards coagulable lymph, is 
eff'used into the cellular membrane about the joint, and produces a 
pufl'y elastic swelling, which subsequently becomes oBdematous. 
Then the ligament inflames and ulcerates, the synovial membrane 
is destroyed in the same manner, and the matter finds its way to 
the exterior, producing numerous and circuitous sinuses in the 
neio^hbouring soft parts. In some cases exfoliation of nearly the 
whole cartilage takes place, instead of ulceration. Sometimes the 
disease goes on in the shaft of a cylindrical bone ; so that the tibia 
or the fibula is found converted in its middle into a thin shell of 
earthy matter, enclosing an unusually large medullary canal. In 
the last stage of the disease, the bones not only lose the vascularity 
they have acquired, but that which is natural to them. This is 
probably the cause of the exfoliations, which sometimes occur, 
especially in the small bones. In the bones of the fingers and toes, 
half of the bone sometimes dies away and exfoliates, owing to the 
diminished supply of blood. 

This disease of the bones sometimes occurs in mature life, per- 
sons up to the age of forty being occasionally its subjects. 

The first symptom perceived is a weakness in the part. Then a 
dull heavy pam comes on unattended by swelling, and not increased 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 21 

by motion ; except when the part affected is the knee, hip, or ankle 
joint. In that case, long standing, or walking for a length of time, 
increases the pain. Swelling next occurs, producing a fulness 
about the parts. The soft parts next swell. The swelling is so 
hard that the head of the bone seems to be enlarged. It has a pecu- 
liar rounded appearance, and the skin covering it is tense, smooth, 
and transparent, the veins being frequently visible beneath. There 
is now more pain, but still not any of much consequence. It amounts 
rather to a sensation of uneasiness, than to actual pain. In child- 
hood, the swelling is at first firmer and more circumscribed, than 
in the adult. The swelling is often the first thing perceived by 
the nurse. When attention is attracted to it, if the disease is seated 
in the lower limbs, the child will be observed to limp occasionally, 
and sometimes complain of pain. The swelling increases, it is 
puflfy and elastic, and greater when the limb has been much exer- 
cised. As ulceration ffoes on in the cartilages, the pain is some- 
what but not materially increased. The pain is not severe until 
an abscess has formed, and the parts over it have become distended 
and inflamed. The skin then assumes a purple colour. The ab- 
scess is slow in its progress, and when opened, or when it bursts, 
is found to contain a thin pus, with portions of curdy matter float- 
ing in it. As the discharge grows less in quantity, it is thicker in 
consistence, until it assumes the same appearance as the matter 
found in scrofulous glands. Sometimes the matter forms sinuses, 
opening at a distance from the joint, and continuing open. From 
these apertures small pieces of bone are frequently discharged. In 
most cases, several abscesses form in succession. 

The disease may go on for months without creating any consti- 
tutional disturbance. In other cases, hectic fever arises, and unless 
amputation is performed, the patient sinks under it. In others, a 
curative action arises, and the bones become anchylosed. Unless 
the disease is arrested early, the cure is always slow and difiicult. 
In the small bones of the hands and feet, it is always more difficult, 
in consequence of the number which compose the joints. 

This aff*ection is distinguished from ulceration of the cartilage, by 
absence from pain. The patient does not suffer much, excepting 
when the abscess is just presenting beneath the skin, and its burst- 
ing affords immediate relief At other times there is not much 
pain, unless from the irritation produced, when a small piece of 
bone exfoliates, and becomes loose, giving pain by its pressure upon 
the soft parts. The marks of scrofula in other parts of the system 
generally assist in the diagnosis; as does the general appearance of 
the patient. 

In the superficial joints, as the knee and ankle, the character of 
the swelling assists in the diagnosis. In children, previously to the 
formation of abscess, it is limited to the immediate vicinity of the 
affected parts, and has a definite margin. The child commonly 
keeps the knee somewhat bent, and the condyles of the femur are 



22 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

seen globular and projecting, and apparently, though not actually, 
enlarged. This appearance is very characteristic. 

In the commencement of the disease, Sir A. Cooper considers 
that the synovial membrane is first attacked.' Sir B. Brodie holds, 
that the cartilages are attacked before the synovial membrane. 

Hip Joint. Scrofulous disease of this joint is so important, and 
at the same time its diagnosis is so difficult, that it demands par- 
ticular consideration. It commences in the long structures; oc- 
curs most frequently in children, and is rare after the age of 
twenty-five. Those children who are most frequently the subjects 
of it have fair complexions, light hair, blue eyes, and large pupils, 
and are delicate and precocious. Examined at an early period of 
the disease, the end of the bone is found altered and softened, so 
that it can be cut with a knife. The ligaments and cartilages are 
then quite sound. The cancellous structure of the bone is unnatu- 
rally vascular, and a quantity of serous fluid is found in thecancelli. 
But in more advanced stages the bones become so soft, that they 
can be crushed together by pinching them with the fingers. They 
are now less vascular than natural, and a yellow cheesy matter fills 
thecancelli. This vascularity of the bone goes on diminishing; 
and in some parts the vessels become so much obliterated that the 
bone exfoliates. The su rface of the bone communicates the disease 
to the cartilage with which it is in contact. The cartilage loses 
its firm adhesion, and remains so loosely attached that it may be 
peeled off with the finders; and a red vascular surface is observed 
underneath, which is left a little rough. Ulceration of the cartilage 
next occurs. It begins on the surface towards the bone, and as it 
is eaten away, the space formed is filled with coagulated lymph, 
which becomes organised. Ulceration penetrates a small opening, 
through which a probe may be passed ; it then extends in every 
direction, and ultimately the cartilage becomes every where de- 
stroyed. As the disease progresses, suppuration is established in 
the joint, but ulceration often goes on to a great extent without the 
formation of abscess. 

Symptoms. The most remarkable symptom is the small quan- 
tity of pain that is felt for a long time. This appears to be seated 
not in the hip, but in the knee joint. The disease often exists in 
both hips, while no symptoms are discovered, except in one, until 
after death. The pain never becomes great, until an abscess forms, 
which sometimes takes place on the inside of the thigh ; sometimes 
backwards, behind the little trochanter, sometimes under the nates; 
and sometimes through the acetabulum into the pelvis, or into the 
vagina, rectum, or bladder. The limb is at first apparently length- 
ened, from the parietes being depressed on the diseased side ; but it 

* Lloyd on Scrofula, Sir B. Brodie's Clinical Lecture. Med. Gazette. A. 
Cooper. 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 23 

afterwards becomes shortened, in consequence of the destruction of 
the cervix. The toes turn outwards, while the thigh may remain 
in a line with the trunk. 

The first thinor that attracts attention is generally a slight degree 
of lameness. The motion of the joint is impeded ; extension is 
performed with difficulty, and the heel of the diseased side scarcely 
rests on the ground. There is great difficulty in flexion. When 
the child attemps to stoop, he bends only the sound knee. If de- 
sired to raise his foot to a chair, the effort is so painful that he can- 
not accomplish it. The rotation of the joint, especially rotation 
inwards, is impeded. In examining a patient, he should be placed 
on his back, and the sides of the pelvis compared. That on the 
diseased side will be found lowest. Bending the knee towards the 
abdomen gives pain. Great pain is produced by rotation. The 
patient must then be turned upon his face, and the nates examined. 
They will generally be found an inch lower on the diseased, than 
on the sound side. If a line is drawn from the spinous process of 
the ilium, from one side to the other, there will be a difference of 
an inch or more. 

Dislocation of the limb, upwards or outwards, occasionally 
takes place. The cavity of the acetabulum is filled up with lymph 
or pus. or both together. The capsular ligament of the joint in 
consequence is dilated ; the patient having undergone a great deal 
of suffering from the tense state of the capsule previously. The 
round ligament is next destroyed by the ulceration, that has already 
consumed the cartilage. The head of the femur is pushed out of 
the joint, until it passes beyond the acetabulum, and lodges itself 
on the dorsum of the ilium. Sometimes, when the head of the 
femur is dislocated, it will be nearly entire; in other cases, it is 
partly absorbed. The dislocation taking place in the direction in 
which the cartilages are destroyed, and being upwards and out- 
wards, the limb is much shortened, and the toes turned inwards. 
The position in which the child lies, with his knees turned inwards, 
so as to cross the sound limb, favours the escape of the os femoris, 
and also the remains of the neck when the head has been destroyed. 
Sometimes the dislocation takes place in a different direction. 
Brodie mentions one case of dislocation forward, in which the head 
of the femur rested upon the pubes. Dislocation is attended with 
very great danger, and with great increase of the sufferings of the 
patient. The head or ulcerated neck of the femur, constantly 
pressing upon the soft parts, produces great irritation. 

On dissection, a quantity of adhesive matter is poured out about 
the joints ; the ligaments are much thickened, the synovial surface 
is inflamed, and often slightly ulcerated; cartilages of the joint ul- 
cerated, and the bone itself sometimes absorbed, not only the head 
but the acetabulum. Abscesses are frequent; taking different 
directions, generally down the thigh, between the trochanters and 
the outer surface. Sometimes they are found in the direction of 



24 BOYLKSTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

the femoral artery, and by their pressure occasion the absorption of 
a considerable [)ortion of the vessel. 

The exciting cause of this disease is generally too much exer- 
tion; too long a walk for instance. 

Spink. Mr. Lloyd describes two forms of scrofulous disease of 
the spine. The angular^ and the lateral curvature. The former 
is the principal and the worst, since it arises from the destruction of 
one or more vertebrae. The body of the vertebrcB is destroyed by 
the same sort of action, that has already been described as taking 
place in the cancellous structure of the other bones; scrofulous 
matter being first deposited, and the earthy portion absorbed, leav- 
ing, however, the back part of the bone untouched. Hence, incur- 
vation takes place forward, and there is a projection behind. It 
sometimes begins in the intervertebral substance, sometimes in the 
bone itself; but, according to Sir B. Brodie, most frequently in the 
intervertebral cartilage, and at the place where this cartilage is 
connected with the bone. It is first manifested by the child's com- 
plaining of a fixed pain in the spine, which extends down on each 
side in the direction of the nerves arising from the spinal marrow. 
There are weakness and pain in the back, pain on the sides, more 
on one side than the other, and the nerves arising from the spinal 
marrow, are inflamed in consequence of pressure upon it. The 
membranes of this chord, sometimes become affected with chronic 
inflammation, which may extend to the chord itself The curva- 
ture produces a projection of one, two, or three of the spinous pro- 
cesses beyond the others, and the chord becomes incurvated with 
the spine, and often so much compressed as to prevent the proper 
performance of its functions. The lower extremities usually be- 
come affected, sensibility is diminished, and the muscles lose a por- 
tion of their voluntary power. The child is apt to fall down, in 
consequence of a loss of power in the muscles. The case differs 
from paralysis, because the powers are not entirely lost, but im- 
paired, and there are spasmodic contractions of the limbs. The 
patient sits with his limbs drawn under him, and his heels drawn 
up towards the nates, and there are besides spasmodic twitchings of 
the limbs. If the lumbar and dorsal vertebras are affected, there 
will be difficulty in discharging the urine, and the faeces will at 
length pass involuntarily. When the disease is in the cervical 
vertebrae, the head is the only part that retains its power with the 
exception of the vital organs: volition is lost in all parts below the 
seat of the disease. 

Mr. Lloyd affirms that there is one local symptom, that invaria- 
bly precedes spinal curvature, to wit, the wasting of the muscles 
of the back. This is evinced in children by their keeping their 
head bent forward more than natural ; by their holding one shoul- 
der raised above the other, and by their disposition to lean or re- 
cline when sitting down. In the lateral curvature, there is gene- 
rally no destruction of parts, but only an alteration of structure. 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 25 

The connections between the different bones become loosened and 
relaxed ; and when attention is first called to the complaint, the 
spine is found curved in the form of an S. The elevation of one 
shoulder above the other is the first indication of the complaint. 

The cure of spinal disease of a scrofulous nature, is accom- 
plished by anchylosis forminjjf from the deposition of new bone, or 
by the union of the upper and lower surfaces of the bone with each 
other. 

On dissection, the vertebrae are sometimes found partially or 
wholly destroyed. Occasionally, four or five, or more vertebrae 
are absorbed. This absorption is the effect of pressure upon the 
spinal canal. The canal becomes larjjer, opposite the part at which 
the vertebrae first give way. When it is cured, the canal is largest 
opposite the place where the vertebrae have been absorbed. 

Disease of the spine very frequently gives rise to psoas, and lum- 
bar abscesses, which frequently occasion a very considerable loss 
of substance. 

Psoas and Lumbar Abscess. This often proceeds as above 
mentioned from disease of the spine. It commences in the liga- 
ments, between these and the surface of the intervening substance. 
It is often merely an abscess from the above mentioned disease, 
arising in inflamtnation of the spine, and the intervertebral sub- 
stance. The matter spreads until it reaches the origin of the psoas 
muscle, which ulcerates and forms a bag surrounded by a complete 
ring. Its symptoms are pain in the loins of several months' stand- 
ing, and difficulty in extending the thigh. If the patient brings his 
legs together, he feels pain and tightness in the groins, and in- 
creased pain in attempting to bend the limb, in consequence of 
stretching the psoas muscle. It is liable to be confounded with 
femoral hernia, from which it is to be distinguished principally by 
the pain in the loins, and great constitutional disturbance. If the 
abscess forms upon the side of the vertebrae, instead of the fore part 
of the limb, it is termed lumbar abscess. 

Rachitis. This is commonly preceded by disease of the me- 
senteric glands. The abdomen is increased in size, while the rest 
of the body becomes emaciated, the cheeks wan or sallow, and 
somewhat tumefied. While the emaciation of the body is goin|f 
on, the head becomes enlarged, so that it may be mistaken for hy? 
drocephalus. This is owing to the softened state of the bone&, 
which are incapable of supporting the action of the arteries of the 
brain, which push them outwards. The head and forehead are 
high and expanded, the chin prominent. The sides of the face are 
brought together, and the whole of the features altered. The spine 
becomes curved under the weight it has to support, and nature, in 
endeavouring to restore the perpendicular, makes a second curve. 
The scapula is projected. The form of the spine and of the ribs is 
altered. The spine is now curved in two directions. The ribs 
13 e 6 rf 3 



26 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

are more curved upon one side than the other. The anterior part 
of the chest is extremely projected. The sternum is sunk between 
the cartilaj^es of the ribs, and sometimes projects so as to form a 
ridge. The bones of the hmbs also become curved. Absorption 
at leno;th takes place, and nothing but cartilage is left. The hu- 
merus looks as if it had been broken by a fall. The joints are 
loose and spongy, and keep pace with the head in swelling. There 
is deficiency of phosphate of lime, throughout all the osseous sys- 
tem, in consequence, as Sir A. Cooper considers it, of a want of 
power in the circulating system. 

Scrofulous Disease of the Lungs. Scrofula, as is well 
known, shows itself in the lungs by the production of tubercles. 
Writers describe three forms of these bodies, which are probably 
merely different stages of the same. In proceeding- from below up- 
wards, they are found in the following order. First, gray semi- 
transparent granulations. Secondly; granulations more opaque, and 
yellowish towards the^centre, and, thirdly ; granulations of a yel- 
lowish white, in their whole extent, that is to say, completely tuber- 
culous. The gray granulations are supposed, by some, to be the 
primary form of tubercles. 

The seat of election of tuberculous matter has been proved by 
Carsweil, to be the free surface of the mucous membrane not the 
cellular membrane, as was formerly supposed. It can be detected 
in the blood, in the cells of the spleen, the structure of which organ 
is particularly favourable for its manifestation. He considers it 
therefore as a morbid constituent of the blood, which is separated 
from it by secretion. "The mucous secretion of the liiiing mem- 
brane of the air cells accumulates where it is formed ; but it is not 
pure mucus ; it contains a quantity of tuberculous matter, mixed 
up with it. which after a certain time is separated, and generally 
appears in the form of a dull, yellow, opaque point, occupying the 
centre of the gray, semi-transparent, and sometimes inspissated 
mucus." This is seen in tubercular peritonitis. When we ex- 
amine the peritoneum in this disease, the three following stages are 
well marked. "First, on one portion is a quantity of recently 
effused, coagulable lymph. Secondly, on another we find the same 
plastic, semi-transparent substance, partly organised, and including 
within it, or surrounding, a globular mass of tubercufous matter. 
liastly, on another part the coagulating lymph is found converted 
into a vascular or pale cellular tissue, covered by an accidental 
serous membrane, beneath which, and external to the peritoneal or 
original secreting surface, the tuberculous matter is secreted, having 
the form of a round granular eminence, and resembling in colour 
and consistence, pale, firm cheese." 

The tuberculous matter originates then in a process similar to 
that of secretion. It is a "pale, yellow, or yellowish gray, unor- 
ganised substance, the form, consistence, and composition of which 
vary with the nature of the part in which and the period at which 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 27 

it is examined." It is composed of albumen four parts ; gelatine 
two parts; fibrine eight parts, water (or loss) six parts.* One hun- 
dred parts of crude pulmonary tubercle were found by Thenard to 
contain animal matter 88.15 ; muriate of soda, phosphate of lime, 
carbonate of lime, 11.85 ; and some traces of oxide of iron. 

Either from the nature of the constituents of tuberculous matter, 
or the mode in which they are combined, they are insusceptible of 
org-anisation. 

The softening of the tuberculous matter takes place from the 
circumference, and is merely a consequence of the changes excited 
in the livinsf tissues around the tubercle. The parts in contact 
pour out serosity, and take on an ulcerative action, by which the 
tuberculous matter is softened and expectorated, leaving in its place 
a cavity, which, by the successive softening and expectoration of 
contiguous tubercular masses, becomes gradually increased in size. 

According to M. Rochoux, the gray semi-transparent granula- 
tions, of the size of a millet seed, are not the primary but the second- 
ary stage of pulmonary tubercles. On examining the lung in the 
immediate vicinity of a dense and opaque tubercle, at a superficial 
glance the lung appears perfectly sound, but when it is observed 
more closely, it will be found to contain tubercles in what is really 
their incipient state. According to JM. Rochoux, an incipient tuber- 
cle is a small gelatinous body, not more than the tenth of a line in 
diameter, of a pearly lustre, and presenting all the intermediate 
shades of colour between pearly gray and that f jelly slightly 
tinged red. It does not contain the slightest trace of blood-vessels. 
When a tenth of a line in size, they adhere to the surrounding tis- 
sue by numerous filaments. In the opinion of the same observer, 
they increase by successive degenerations from the healthy struc- 
ture by a morbid action of the formative function of the part. As 
the older structure is absorbed, that formed in its place is tubercu- 
lous. When blood vessels are found in it, they belong to the inter- 
stitial cellular membrane. 

It is not our intention, nor would it be in place, to go into the 
consideration of tuberculous consumption. As the formation of 
tubercles and of tuberculous or scrofulous matter, is an essential 
feature in the disease or diathesis under consideration, some exami- 
nation into the nature of this production was thought necessary. 
It does not appear that this is essentially different from that of 
scrofulous matter formed elsewhere. It seems to be the same sub- 
stance modified in its appearance and manner of deposition, by the 
structure in which it is seated. In every part of the body, however 
according to Dr. Carswell, it prefers the mucous tissue. 

Heart. Scrofulous swellings and tubercles have rarely been 
found in the heart. Wiseman mentions a swelling, weighing two 
ounces, which was attached to the apex of this organ. In a few 

' Hecht. 



28 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

cases, tuberculous matter has been found in the intermuscular cel- 
lular tissue. In the phthisical patients examined by Louis, the 
heart was found not more than one half or two thirds its usual size. 

Liver. Tubercles are not common in the liver. The most 
frequent alteration of this organ consists in its conversion into the 
fatty substance that has already been alluded to. Out of forty-nine 
examples of this fatty degeneration and enlargement, M. Louis 
found forty-seven in phthisical subjects. Louis only twice met 
with tuberculous deposition in the hver. Dr. Carswell says it is 
by no means rare to find this organ afiected with tubercles in chil- 
dren, though very seldom in adults. 

Pancreas. Wiseman gives one instance of abscess in the pan- 
creas. Dr. Carswell says he has never seen tubercles in this organ. 
M. Lombard found them in five out of a hundred cases, in children 
who died tuberculous. 

Spleen. According to Dr. Carswell, this organ in children is 
frequently the seat of tuberculous deposition, but in adults this is 
rarely the case. Louis found tubercles in seven out of ninety cases. 
Mr. Lloyd says they generally acquire a larger size than in the 
lungs, perhaps owing to their not being so liable to induce suppu- 
ration. Sometimes they are very numerous, of the smallest size, 
and diffused through the whole gland. 

Intestines. The small intestines are of all organs most fre- 
quently affected with tubercles, at every period of life. They are 
often completely studded with them. Ulcerations of the mucous 
follicles and of the surrounding mucous and cellular textures, were 
found by Louis in five sixths of the cases he examined. These 
are preceded by enlargement and induration of the two sets of 
glands, forming hard, white, cartilaginous granulations, as well as 
tubercles. *The large intestines are found affected in a similar 
manner as the small, with the exception of the cartilaginous granu- 
lations, which are not found. 

Kidneys. These are very subject to scrofulous action. Tuber- 
cles are common, and sometimes exist in great numbers ; both kid- 
neys being usually affected, when the deposition has taken place in 
either. Sometimes the whole kidney has been destroyed, leaving _ 
nothing but a bag in its place. M. Louis found the kidney affected 
in about one half of those who died of phthisis. 

Brain. Abscesses sometimes occur in the brain and create so 
little disturbance, that they have been found on examination after 
death, in subjects who have shown no marks of cerebral irritation 
during life. Lloyd mentions a case in which several small tuber- 
cles, and an abscess the size of a pigeon's egg, was found in the 



i 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 29 

brain of a young man who died suddenly, without having shown 
any particular signs of affection of the head during life. Tubercles" 
are not uncommon. They are more frequent in the cerebellum, 
than in the cerebrum. The spinal chord is sometimes the seat of 
these depositions, the cervical part being generally preferred. In a 
few cases they have been found in the lumbar portion. According 
to Dr. Carsweli, tubercles are found in infants, in the cerebrum, 
and in the cerebellum, oftener than in older children, and in the 
latter more frequently than in adults. 



TREATMENT. 

Every age laughs at the follies of that which has preceded it. 
While the wonders and pretensions of alchemy were regarded with 
contempt in the age of Charles II., and even astrology began to 
grow out of favour, the age of animal magnetism and homoeopathy 
is disposed to ridicule without mercy the credulity of those who 
trusted in the power of the Royal Touch. 

Are those who believe in the power of specifics, who bring for- 
ward new medicines, or revive old ones, for the cure of any parti- 
cular disease who waste time, paper, and ink, in setting forth to 
the medical world the merits of their favourite specific and who 
hold that they have detected the grand arcanum, which in some 
manner, they cannot tell how, is suddenly and infallibly to banish 
the disease for which they recommend it; are these men, intelli- 
gent, talented, experienced though they may be, one whit wiser 
than those who formerly wasted their lives in the pursuit of the 
elixir vitae? 

We have already undertaken to show that the royal ^touch might 
have been efficacious upon principles which do not require mira- 
culous agency for their explanation. In the same manner may be 
explained Dr. Warren's case, illustrating the efficacy of the imagi- 
nation in the removal of a tumour by the touch of a dead man's 
hand. The awe excited by the idea of this remedy was probably 
much the same as that produced by the royal touch ; the belief in 
the certainty of the cure was doubtless complete, (faith being an 
indispensable requisite in all such cases.) and the subject was dwelt 
upon for a lonsr time both before and after, producing an iu)pres- 
sion upon the mind, which could not fail to act powerfully as an 
alterative and stimulant upon the whole system. Whoever devised 
this remedy, therefore, was wiser than we should be at first dis- 
posed to think him. As the divinity which was formerly supposed 
to encircle the person of a king, has departed, a dead man's hand, 
to a person unfamiliar with death, was the best succedaneum. It 
is very possible that we might find as much wisdom, or cunnings 



30 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

if the term seems preferable, in other superstitions, could we trace 
them to their origin. As long as a cure was actually accomplished, 
the end was answered equally well, whether it was done by a 
medicine or a charm. Even now we are indebted for half the 
efficacy of our medicines to the faith of the patient. Confidence 
in the skill of the physician is half the battle. Could we acquire 
the faculty of operating upon, and controlling the emotions of the 
mind, we should have at our command more powerful stimulants, 
alteratives, and tonics, than any the pharmacopceia can furnish. 
Animal magnetism would give us this power, if the public had but 
a httle more faith, or a little less curiosity if they would be con- 
tent with witnessing effects, instead of inquiring too closely into 
causes. 

Upon principles not very different from those which have been 
alluded to, to wit: the action of the royal touch, animal magnet- 
ism, <fec.; the grand remedy for the cure of the scrofulous diathesis, 
the one of most general and proved efficacy is the removal into 
the country, or to the sea shore. The excitement of change, the 
entire alteration of habits, the exhibition of new objects to the mind, 
of interest and occupation, apart from the effects of pure air and 
sea bathing, tend to arouse the energies of the system, to excite the 
appetite, and quicken the circulation. But it is not our present 
purpose to discuss this remedy. We return to specifics, and to the 
particular specific for scrofula iodine. 

Since the discovery of this mineral, it has been employed univer- 
sally in this, and occasionally in other diseases ; but in this, its use 
has been general, and it continues as almost an essential prescrip- 
tion. Were it possible to estimate the amount of mischief that has 
been done by the use of this powerful drug, it would probably be 
found far greater than that of good that will ever be derived from 
its employment. But the same remark may apply to arsenic, mer- 
cury, antimony, <fcc. 

The best conducted and longest continued series of experiments 
upon the effects of iodine, seem to be those of M. Lugol. He at 
first employed it dissolved in water. Haifa grain, two thirds of a 
grain, and a grain, were put into three several quantities of a pound 
of distilled water each, so as to form three preparations of different 
degrees of strength ; and to these he gave the names of mineral 
solutions. No. 1, 2, and 3. The commencing dose was half a grain 
taken daily. 

He found the external effects of iodine to consist in a sensation 
of pricking or smarting. The internal use increased the appetite 
to such a degree that the hospital allowance of food was insufficient. 
It acted as a powerful diuretic, often as a purgative, sometimes 
producing colicky pains, fn some instances there was a remark- 
able degree of salivation, both from its external and internal use. 
The pains to which it gave rise were appeased by quinine. Far 
froiu producing emaciation, he says, it is a powerful stimulant, 
which revives the organic functions, fortifies the general constitution^ 



t 
I 

i 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. <^^^^^ 31 

and en coil rages th e growth and increase of size. The general 
results obtained in the treatment of scrofulous females were as 
follows : 

1. That thin females have acquired a state of einbonpoint. 

2. That corpulent women have not become emaciated. 

3. That those in the middle state have lost nothing, but gained 
increased strength and improved health. 

In his first memoir, published in 1829, M. Lugol gives thirteen 
cases of scrofulous disease of various parts of the body, in which 
iodine was employed, both externally and internally, with great 
success. 

In his second memoir, he gives an account of his invention of 
ioduretted baths. He employed troughs of wood as better adapted 
than metal to resist the action of the mineral. He dissolved six 
drams of the hydriodate of potash, with three drams of iodine, in 
twenty ounces of distilled water. This was added to the quantity 
of water necessary to a bath. It does not appear that the effect of 
these baths differed from that of the substance applied externally in 
other forms ; only that from the whole surface of the body being 
exposed to it at once, its action was of course more speedy and more 
general. 

The report of M. M. Magendie and Dumeril in 1831, upon M. 
Lugol's treatment, is very favourable. They say, ''not only have 
we witnessed the cure of scrofula, in the first and second degree, 
but we have also seen the successful treatment of the disease in the 
most aggravated forms." 

' Deep seated alterations of the glands, and various other organs, 
serious lesions of the bones, and their principal articulations, ac- 
companied by the general symptoms which forebode a speedy death, 
have been perfectly cured in a great number of cases, in the space 
of a few months, leaving the patient in the best possible state, and 
free from every vestig^e of the malady, except the ineffaceable scars 
it had originally effected. Moreover these results are rendered 
still more valuable by the fact that the majority of cases subjected 
to M. Lugol's practice, were previously in a desperate state, and 
only admitted into his wards, as deplorable examples of the ravages 
of an irremediable disease." 

Subsequently to the publication of his first memoir, M. Lugol 
abandoned the preparations above mentioned, and gave the iodine 
with hydriodate of potass, as follows: 

No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. 

R. lodin. gr.^, gr. 1, gr. U. 

Potass. Hydriod. gr. iss, gr. ij, gr. iiss. 

Aquae Distillat. gviij, Iviij, ^viij. M. 

Of this he gives half a grain daily on commencing. In the second 
fortnight he gives the entire of No. 1, that is three quarters of a 
^rain daily. During the fourth fortnight, or in the beginning of the 
fifth, he gives a grain daily, and continues this to the end of the 



32 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

treatment. Sometimes he has increased it to one ^rain and a quarter, 
and still more rarely to one grain and a half, Another formula of 
his for a concentrated solution is as follows : 
R. lodin. sc)\\. 

Potass. Hydriod. scr. ij. 
Aquae Distillat. gviij. M. 

This mixed with sixteen pounds of distilled water, forms thirty- 
two bottles of half a pint each of mineral water No. 1. It is also 
l^iven in doses of six drops, morning and afternoon, in half a glass of 
water, flavoured with sugar. Every week the daily dose is increas- 
ed by two drops. For children under seven years, two drops twice 
daily, gradually increased to five drops. From the age of seven to 
fourteen, sixteen drops are given twice daily. 

His external applications consist in an ointment of iodine and 
the hydriodate of potass, in the proportion of twelve grains of the 
former, and two scruples of the latter, to two ounces of lard : an 
ointment of the proto-ioduret of mercury of two, three, and four 
scruples to two ounces of fresh lard : a solution of four grains of 
hydriodate of potass, and two of iodine to a pound of distilled water, 
and for the second and third degrees of strength six and eight grains 
of the hydriodate, with three and four grains of iodine to a pound of 
water. 

M. Lugol gives also a formula for a rubefacient solution of four 
drachms of iodine, an ounce of the hydriodate of potass, to six 
ounces of distilled water, by adding which to a sufficient quantity 
of warm water, the local ioduretted baths are formed ; and one for 
caustic iodine, composed of one ounce of iodine, and one ounce of 
the hydriodate, mixed with two ounces of distilled water. This 
produces small scars. 

The good effects of iodine have been confirmed in the work of M. 
Baudelocque, who published, in 1834, the results of its employment 
at the Children's Hospital in Paris, and by M. Eager in the Dublin 
Journal for the same year, who witnessed its results in both hos- 
pitals; (viz. the Children's Hospital, and Hospital of St. Louis, 
where M. Lugol attended,) and by numerous other writers. 

That benefits have resulted from the employment of this medicine, 
we think is sufiiciently proved by the fact of its continuing so long 
and so generally in use for this disease. It certainly has not inva- 
riably produced the good effects which it appears to have done in 
the practice of M. Lugol. Dr. Warren, after long trial of it, both in 
hospital and private practice, seems to consider it as nearly nuga- 
tory in its eftects as a remedy in scrofula. His reviewer in the 
Medico-chirurgical expresses his approbation of Dr. Warren's sen- 
timents, and bears his testimony to the degree in which the powers 
of iodine have been overrated. He says, "because some forms of 
scrofula have been benefited by iodine, this has been employed in 
all cases of scrofula, to the neglect of those old and approved mea- 
sures, stamped as beneficial by established uses, and long continued 
general assent." 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 33 

Sir Astley Cooper^ says in his lectures, "you may lay it down as 
an axiom, that there is no specific for the cure of scrofula ; and he 
that says there is, attempts to gull mankind by the assertion of what 
is not true/' 

These remarks, however, apply to the use of iodine as a specific 
as a substitute for all other remedies and modes of treatment ; not 
to its employment in aid of other remedial means, and with more 
moderate anticipations. We may observe also, that a patient in the 
wards of a hospital, or residing in a crowded city, is not favourably 
situated for his cure. M. Lugol employed exercise in the treat- 
ment of his patients ; but in general, exercise, fresh air, and mental 
recreation, are not accessible in either of the situations we have re- 
ferred to. 

Sir James Clark, and Dr. Todd, speak favourably of iodine in the 
treatment of scrofula. The former says, that we are better acquaint- 
ed with the management of mercury than of iodine, but the opera- 
tion of iodine appears to be more general. Its action on the uterine 
system is decided. On the secreting functions of the liver and kid- 
neys, its operation is evident, and it appears to promote the insensi- 
ble perspiration. It thus diminishes abdominal plethora, promoting 
the activity of the eliminative functions, and through them of the 
assimilative. Its beneficial effects upon strumous constitutions, he 
adds, are undoubted. Under its influence, when judiciously em- 
ployed, the patient recovers flesh, strength and colour ; hitherto pale 
and feeble, he becomes full, strong and florid ; g:landular swellings 
disappear, or are greatly reduced, and the limbs restored to their 
natural size, and the condition of the whole animal economy is 
greatly improved. 

It is remarkable that some writers consider iodine a tonic, while 
others, as Dr. Todd, believe it to act especially upon tlie liver, and 
as in fact an alterative. Some other medicines are in the same pre- 
dicament. Mercury is esteemed by some a tonic ; while the writer 
we have just mentioned attributes the favourable effects of the chaly- 
beates in scrofula, not to their tonic, but to their alterative powers. 
With regard to iodine, from its resemblance in its effects to mercury, 
from its occasionally producing salivation, (fee. we incline to con- 
sider it an alterative. That it is not always a tonic, is very cer- 
tain. We may conclude then, in regard to this drug, that if given 
as an adjunct to other measures of treatment, with proper precau- 
tions, and under proper circumstances, it may be useful, and we 
would give it in the manner recommended by Dr. Todd, and ap- 
proved of by Sir J. Clark. This will be described hereafter. 

The principles upon which the treatment of scrofula should be 
founded, are, according to Sir Astley Cooper, 1st. To make better 
blood. 2d. To strengthen the solids. 3d. To give vigorous action 
to the circulation. Those laid down by Dr. Todd for the treat- 
ment of strumous dyspepsia, are 

' Lancet. A. Cooper's Lectures. 



34 



BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 



1st. To correct the morbid constitution of the body which con- 
stitutes the essential foundation of the disease. 

2d. To render the function ofdio^estion easy of performance by a 
reofulafion of diet suited to the nature of the disease. 

3d. To improve the general tone and strength of the system. 

The action of the heart and arteries is naturally feeble,' the serum 
of the blood preponderates, whilst the fibrous portion is deficient in 
quantity : the first object therefore is to make better blood, and with- 
out this nothing will be of any avail. The next thing is to strengthen 
the solids, and give a vigorous action to the circulating system. For 
the first of these objects. Sir A. Cooper recommends animal food in 
small quantities, and often. At breakfast between eight and nine, 
he allows an egg, or a little meat. At 12, a sandwich. Meat at 
dinner at 3 P. M. He recommends also a glass of good beer or a 
glass of wine. Water he considers not good; the stomach is im- 
perfectly supplied with gastric juice, and therefore requires to be 
stimulated. Rest should be taken after eating. For the second 
object exercise is very important. He mentions having seen at least 
five hundred cases within a year, and often ten a day, and scarcely 
a boy among them. Boys he says will take exercise, girls are not 
allowed to. Without good air, all other means are useless. Air, 
exercise, nourishment, are the three great points. Medicine, Sir 
Astley considers as occasionally useful, with a view to improve the 
digestive powers, and regulate the secretions. From three to five 
grains of the carbonate of iron, with two grains of rhubarb, may be 
given to children daily for a short time. Two grains of rhubarb, 
with from four to six grains of dried sub-carbonate of soda, and ten 
grains of columba, taken with sugar, is a good preparation for the 
same purpose. Chamomile infusion with hydrarg. cumcreta, taken at 
bedtime ; or orle grain of corrosive sublimate in two ounces of tinc- 
ture of bark, a teaspoonful twice a day in a glass of chamomile tea. 
When the bowels are costive, rhubarb may be given instead of bark. 
The child should be well clothed and wear flannel. A bath of sea 
water when practicable may be taken three times a week at eleven in 
the morning. The temperature of the bath should be ninety-four 
degrees, and it may remain in from sixteen to twenty minutes ; after 
which a walk should be taken. A child may be brought to bear 
the bath by sprinkling it with tepid water daily. This is the treat- 
ment of Sir Astley Cooper. 

Dr. Todd advises the application of a few leeches, when there is 
much tenderness of the right hypochondrium, with febrile excite- 
ment and a red and dry tongue. He advises an antiphlogistic diet 
during the presence of these symptoms, with small but repeated 
doses of the nitrate of potass, to be given occasionally in a saline 
solution, or in a carminative or bitter infusion, according to circum- 
stances. Dr. S. speaks highly of the nitrate of potass, which is re- 
commended by Wilson Philip. He considers it partly a substitute 

A. Cooper. 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 35 

for mercury^ndby combining it with mercury less of the latter is 
required. Mercury, Dr. Todd considers as the safest remedy in 
scrofula. It should be given only in intermitted doses, and not al- 
lowed to affect the system. Hydrarg. cum creta may be given 
combined with Dover's powder, when the bowels are too free, or 
with nitrate of potass, or ext. aloes, when they are confined. In 
either case it should be followed every morning or every second 
morning with a teaspoonful of castor oil, electuary of cassia, or sen- 
na, or a small dose of sulphate of potass. The mercurial action is 
promoted by a course of taraxacum or of sarsaparilla. The ad- 
vantages of mercury. Dr. T. says, are obtained more permanently 
and effectually by the use of iodine. Where there is no inflamma- 
tion of the mucous membrane, or but very slight, he considers iodine 
preferable. Where there is any scorbutic tendency, it is decidedly 
contraindicated. It should be commenced in small doses, and in- 
variably intermitted for a few days, to guard against any bad effects 
from its continued use. Dr. T. thinks it probable that the muriate 
of lime has a similar effect. When the mucous surfaces admit of 
the employment of chalybeates, they are of great power, and correct 
the congestion of the abdominal organs. Ferru m tartarisatum alone, 
or qualified by mixing it witl^ small doses of carbonate of iron, 
nitrate or sulphate of potass, or still better by giving them in chaly- 
beate water, will be beneficial. Iodine combined with chalybeates 
Dr. T. considers highly useful : as in the following 

R. Tr. ferri muriat. 
Tr. iodini. aa 3ij. 
Aquae purae ^ss. M. 
Thirty drops of this mixture, three times a day. 

Upon the whole, it may not be difficult to reconcile the plans of 
treatment recommended by Sir A. Cooper and Dr. Todd, especially 
if we consider that Sir Astley refers to a more advanced stage of 
the disease than the strumous dyspepsia of Dr. Todd, in which there 
is no inflammation present. The principal difference consists in Sir 
Astley Cooper's enforcing a meat diet, with wine or porter, whereas 
Dr, Todd, Sir James Clark, Dr. Maunsell, and other recent writers, 
positively forbid the use of wine and other stimulants ; and confine 
the patient, in the first stages, to an antiphlogistic diet with water, 
barley water, or toast and water, for drink, until the difficulty of the 
abdominal organs is removed. 

Sir James Clark and Dr. Todd have been the first to call the at- 
tention of medical men particularly to that state of the digestive or- 
gans which they consider the constant attendant of the strumous 
or tuberculous constitution.* The former declares that the tonic 
treatment at present adopted, although it may give a temporary de- 
gree of strength and tone to the system, very generally tends to aug- 
ment and confirm the evil it is intended to remove. He considers 

' On Consumption. 



36 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATJONS. 

tf)e chalybeates highly useful, but not until the irritation of the 
jj^astric system is removed, and the functions of the whole chylo- 
poietic viscera brought into a healthy state. When tliis has been 
done, tonicft, external and internal, chantre of air, and other means 
for exciting and bracing the getjeral system, will prove of the great- 
est utility. Abernethy's treatment is similar, and may be expressed 
in very few words, as in his lectures. He directs his patients to go 
to the sea-side, and attend to the digestive organs. In this short 
direction, he includes the use of mercury, a nourishing but appro- 
priate diet, and sufficient clothing. 

Dr. Todd does not approve of the continuance of an antiphlogis- 
tic diet, except during the existence of febrile symptoms. It should 
never be long continued, and the patient should return to a limited 
animal diet, which is easy of dicrestion. As cow's milk seldom 
agrees well, unless considerably diluted with water, a little beef tea 
or plain bouillon may be occasionally substituted. Porter, ale, beer 
and wine, he considers unnecessary, and as better avoided. Fish is 
very unwholesome. 

We are to seek to relieve the congestion of the liver, by increas- 
ing the action of the kidneys, by alteratives, and by exciting the 
cutaneous vessels by a warm sea Wc^r bath, by sponging the body 
with vinegar and water, or salt and water, by the nilro-murialic 
lotion, warm clothing and exercise; or when exercise cannot be 
taken, by friction over the whole surface of the body, for at least 
half an hour daily. The bowels should be kept open, but not 
purged. 

Chalybeates, as we have already said, will sometimes be required, 
but the most powerful tonic is unquestionably seabathing. W^hen 
it agrees with the patient, that is, when it does not produce languor 
or chilliness, it will be the most beneficial. The shower bath, cold 
ablution, exercise in the open air, in a dry healthy atmosphere, 
either upon the sea shore, or in an elevated country, are the most 
important points to be attended to. Horseback exercise is of the 
most advantage, especially for girls who cannot easily obtain suffi- 
cient exercise in any other manner. For children, atnusing plays 
and moderate and pleasant occupation of mind should be devised. 

One remark of Sir A. Cooper's deserves attention. That the 
physician who is called in winter loses credit, since the complaint 
is aggravated on the approach of spring, but subsides during sum- 
mer. If called in the spring, he will gain credit. In October and 
November it will become worse, but in winter is belter than in the 
spring. 

From the full discussion into which we have entered, with regard 
to the causes that tend to produce scrofula, where it is not heredi- 
tary or congenital ; and from what we have now said, we think that 
our ideas of general treatment of the disease or diathesis, will be 
sufficiently understood. These are, in brief, that medicinal agents 
are of little importance in comparison with proper diet, pure air, 
sufficient exercise and clothing, cleanliness, pure water, sea bathing, 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 37 

&c. As a substitute for exercise, friction employed for a sufficient 
time, either with the hand, a flesh brush or a coarse towel, will be 
useful ; but it will not supply the place of fresli air. Where sea 
water cannot be had, the shower bath, or cold bath, may be sub- 
stituted, and common salt may be added to the water. The prac- 
tice of cold ablution which we hope is becominj^ common among 
us, is highly advantageous. We consider iodine when used with 
caution, a useful remedy when an alterative is required. In all 
cases, the dicrestive organs must be attended to, and the proper mea- 
sures taken to restore their healthy action. Where there is much 
irritability of the mucous coats, mercury will be preferable to iodine. 
Were we to lay down a general rule, perhaps we should direct mer- 
cury to be given in every case, where an alterative was required, 
because it is more under our control, and we understand its action 
better. Iodine is hardly yet entitled to any better than the name of 
an empirical medicine. Nevertheless, there are many cases where 
it may be used with safety, and with greater advantage than mer- 
cury, in consequence of its more general action upon the system. 

Sufficient has also been said in regard to the use of iodine for the 
general condition of the system, to indicate the proper circumstances 
under which it should be used for local symptoms; we shall not, 
therefore again return to it, in speaking of the different treatment of 
the various local forms of scrofula. By M. Lugol and others it is 
used as a topical application in all these varieties; but the applica- 
tion of iodine to a denuded or delicate surface is unsafe, and its 
effects as an external remedy are not sufficiently understood, nor its 
advantages made manifest. If forced to give any rule, as to its ex- 
ternal employment, we should say that it might be employed under 
the same circumstances as mercurial ointment, and we believe that 
whatever benefit resulted from it, would be attributed to its action 
upon the system at large. 

In every variety of scrofulous affection there can be little use in 
topical remedies, unless measures are at the same time resorted to 
for improving the condition of the whole system. Local applications 
are considered important ; but, compared with constitutional treat- 
ment, they are of little efficacy. We will briefly allude to the mea- 
sures resorted to, in the different scrofulous disorders that have been 
described. 

Lymphatic Glands. The local applications which we em- 
ploy in this case, are the same as are used in simple inflammation, 
or in phlegmonous swelling. Cooling or evaporating lotions, com- 
posed of, Hq. plumbi. subacet. and spirits of wine, or liq. acet. am- 
monias, are directed, with a view of subduing the inflammation and 
promoting the resolution of the tumour. As soon as suppuration 
commences, a poultice should be applied. As these swellings, like 
other scrofulous appearances, occur most frequently in females, it 
is a great object to prevent their leaving scars. The moment, there- 
fore, the slightest redness and fluctuation appear, a small opening 



38 



BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 



should be made with a lancet or a cataract knife. The incision 
should be made transversely in the direction of the folds of the neck. 
If the opening is not made until the skin becomes of a livid colour, 
it is best not to use the knife, but to leave the opening to nature, be- 
cause it will be too late to derive any advantage from an incision. 
After opening the abscess, all the matter should be carefully squeezed 
out. During the suppuration of the tumour, rhubarb and car- 
bonate of soda may be given twice a day, and a small quantity of 
hydrarg. cum creta, three or four times in twenty-four hours. After 
the abscess has opened, if the wound be indolent and indisposed to 
heal, a solution of sulphate of zinc, about one scruple to a pint of 
water, may be employed as a wash or injection. 

Ulcers. In the treatment of scrofulous ulcers, a similar injec- 
tion may be employed, when it is requisite to excite action, or we 
may apply a solution of nitrate of silver, or touch the sores with the 
solid nitrate. A poultice of bread and water, of hemlock leaves, or 
sea weed, may then be applied. These ulcers are often extremely 
obstinate, and when they are large will afford the surgeon no trifling 
degree of perplexity and trouble, and often call for all the resources 
of his ingenuity; for as they continue for weeks, months, and even 
years, in nearly the same state, the practitioner will be thought very 
remiss if he merely perseveres in the same treatment, which has been 
found inefficacious. For his own credit and the satisfaction of his 
patient, he must continually vary his treatment, although he may 
have little to expect, unless some change can be effected in the con- 
stitution of the patient. We recollect a formidable case of a large 
ulcer upon the leg of a female, which for a long time defied every 
remedy, slowly increased, and threatened to wear out finally the 
strength of the patient. A consultation was held, and it was deter- 
mined to remove the limb. When this decision was communicated 
to her, it produced a great shock, and she opposed it most earnestly. 
The operation was delayed, and from that moment the limb began 
to improve. This might have been accidental, but it is also pos- 
sible that the sudden and powerful impression upon the mind, pro- 
duced a reaction or a change in the whole system, and eftected 
what all local and general measures had failed to accomplish. 

Mesenteric Glands. The irritation or inflammation of the 
mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels, or of the glands 
themselves, is to be removed by antiphlogistic regimen, leeches to 
the abdomen, and the use of sedative medicines. In all cases, the 
warm bath and friction over the bowels are useful. Dr. Evanson 
considers iodine as the principal means of eflfecting resolution of the 
enlarged glands. He, however, cautions ns against the liability of 
this medicine to irritate the stomach and bowels, and advises us 
always to suspend its use when such irritation is present. He 
gives the concentrated solution of M. Lugol, (vide page 36) in the 
dose of from one to five drops in sweetened water. When there 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 39 

is any irritation of the bowels, he prefers the hydriodate of potass, 
in the quantity of half a grain or a grain, given in the decoction of 
sarsaparilla a desert spoonful two or three times a day. A little 
laudanum or syrup of white poppies added to each dose, lessens the 
liabilily to disagree. Dr. Evanson also uses iodine ointment, or an 
ointment of the hydriodate of lead, ten or fifteen grains to an ounce 
of lard, which is rubbed upon the skin. The mercurial ointment 
may be employed in the same manner. 

The medicines, especially recommended by Sir Astley Cooper, 
are one grain of the oxymuriate of mercury, in two ounces of the 
tincture of bark, or, when the bowels are costive, in the same quan- 
tity of tincture of rhubarb; given, as before mentioned, in the dose 
of a teaspoonful twice a day. He recommends also hydrarg^. cum 
cretS as an aperient. Where there is much febrile action, antimony 
and nitre are of great service. Rhubarb may be given with sal. 
polychrest or sulphate of potass. 

As long as febrile or inflammatory action of the system continues, 
an antiphlogistic diet must be employed, but as soon as this is over- 
come, animal food may be resumed. Sir A. Cooper, indeed, con- 
siders a diet of animal food, prepared so as to be easily digested, the 
most essential part of the treatment. He also allows wine and 
water. Evanson and others say, that wine and fermented liquors, 
if used at all, must be allowed with great caution. The last named 
writer approves of the use of chalybeates, but thinks them inferior 
to iddine and its compounds, which he regards as tonics. 

Ophthalmia. In commencina: the treatment of scrofulous 
ophthalmia, an emetic of antimony or ipecac, is beneficial. From 
one to four grains of antimony may be dissolved in a pint of water, 
to which from one to two ounces of salts may be added. Two or 
three table-spoonfuls of this may be given every half hour, until 
vomiting is excited ; after which the dose is to be repeated every 
three, four, or six hours, as circumstances may require. This of 
course is the quantity for adults. For children, antimony, if used, 
must be adapted to the age of the patient, and must be used with 
much greater caution. Mr. Travers recommends calomel and an- 
timony, or calomel and opium, with blisters to the neck, and, where 
there is much inflammation, the application of leeches. A solution 
of nitrate of silver, quite weak, will be useful in some cases, and the 
black wash, with or without laudanum, in others; wine of opium in 
others. In the case of children, it is generally desirable to avoid 
severe local applications, especially bhsters. Dr. Maunsell con- 
siders all local applications hurtful, and particularly those of a 
caustic nature. He advises that a shade should be applied over 
the eye. When there is much redness or pain, a poultice of bread 
and cold water, or of alum curd, may be enclosed in a muslin bag, 
and placed over the eye at night. Three or four grains of sulphate 
of zinc or alum, to an ounce of rose water, he prefers as an eye 
water. Ulcers of the cornea, he says, often disappear under the 



40 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

use of iodine, without local treatment. If the conjunctiva in old 
cases becomes ;2^ranular, caustics, such as nit. arg^enti, or cupri sulph. 
will l)e required. M. Lugol injects a solution of iodine upon the 
conjunctiva, and into the lachrymal fossae with a syrinjje. Mac- 
kenzie recommends, in adult subjects or older children, evaporating 
lotions, fomentations, scarification, and s?imulants, to the inflamed 
surface, especially the solid nitrate and red precipitate salve. Ulcers 
of the cornea may be touched with the point of a pencil of lunar 
caustic. In cases of central ulcer, belladonna is useful. 

Discharges from the Ear. These may be benefited by ex- 
citing a discharge behind the ear, by means of a piece of woollen 
thread, (as recommended by Dr. A'launsell,) smeared with blistering 
ointment, and placed in the ano-je between the ear and the scalp. 
Care must be taken also to wash off the discharge, and keep the 
part constantly clean. 

Scrofulous Discharges from the Vagina. The principal 
treatment for this must be directed to improve the general health, 
and to preserve a perfect state of cleanliness. 

Breast. The treatment in this case need not be very dissimilar 
to that of the diseased lymphatic glands already described. In the 
first stage, cooling lotions, leeches, decoction of hemlock or poppies, 
may be employed, and as the swelling advances, a poultice should 
be kept upon the part. Perhaps a simple poultice, even in the first 
stage, is as good an application as any. Though always employed 
to promote suppuration, a poultice does not prevent resolution : on 
the contrary, it favours this action, when there is any disposition 
in the part to take it. A poultice made of sea weed is a useful ap- 
plication ; in other cases, a plaster of the red oxide of iron may be 
placed upon the part. As in this case there is not the same neces- 
sity of avoiding a scar, it will be better to leave the opening to na- 
ture. When this is insufficient to permit a free escape of the mat- 
ter, it should be enlarged. If the abscess remains long open, and 
is indisposed to heal, it may be necessary to stimulate it by the use 
of caustic. 

Testicle. The weight of the testicle should be supported by 
a suspensory bandage ; and cooling washes or a bread poultice 
applied to the part. This is said to yield to mercury the most 
readily of all scrofulous affections. Unguent, hydr. cum camphor, 
may be rubbed into the scrotum, and blisters be applied to the thigh. 
The patient must be prohibited from using any exercise, and be 
kept perfectly still. 

Prostate. The principal object of local treatment in this 
case, is to relieve the symptoms that the enlargement of the gland 



I 



i 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 41 

produces, such as stricture of the urethra, a gleety discharge, pain 
in passing water, as also frequent desire to do this, &.c. 

Bones and Joints. The principal object in the management 
of diseases of the joints, is to prevent motion, to keep the limb in a 
state of perfect rest. This may sometimes be done by the means 
of splints and bandages, without preventing the patient from taking 
exercise. The next thing is to remove inflammation. For this 
purpose evaporating lotions, spirituous or alcoholic lotions, the liq. 
subacet. plumbi. or liq. subacet. ammonias may be used. Sir B. 
Brodie advises moderate local depletion at the commencement of 
the inflammatory symptoms. He does not approve of counter-irri- 
tation, unless in case of great pain or spasms. Sir A. Cooper ad- 
vises it, if the disease advances. Blisters, the tartar emetic ointment, 
vinegar poultices, issues, and setons, are used for this purpose. 
Where suppuration has taken place, setons should not be applied 
over the joint, but at a distance from it, if at all. Blisters of mo- 
derate size may be applied over the joint, and kept open with 
unguent, juniperi. After the irritation has subsided, a splint must 
be applied, and as soon as the limb is free from irritation, it must be 
subjected to friction. In scrofulous aflTections of the joints, return 
to motion must be delayed longer than in other cases : motion 
should not be permitted as long as it gives the slightest pain. When 
the disposition to suppurate has subsided, strips of soap plaster 
should be placed over the joint, so as to apply moderate pressure 
to the part. Sir A. Cooper thinks that amputation should never be 
resorted to, unless there is so much irritation as to threaten life. 

Hip Joint. The main object in this, as in diseases of the joints 
generally, is to enforce entire rest, and prevent any motion of the 
joint. If there is much pain, leeches must be applied to the part. 
Evaporating lotions should be used for a short time. If the inflam- 
mation does not yield readily, a large blister should be placed over 
the joint, and be kept open. Abscesses should be opened as late as 
possible, and unless very large, ought not to be opened at all, as it 
exposes the cavity of the joint. To prevent motion of the joint, Sir 
B. Brodie recommends a splint made of thick, hard leather, which 
can be softened like the pasteboard splints, by putting it into warm 
water, and will take any form that is desired. This can be moulded 
to tiie hip, and secured by a bandage. As it fits perfectly to all 
parts, it is very easy to wear. Where the joint is much bent, how- 
ever,other contrivances answer better. In such cases, a splint may 
be used formed of wood in a double inclined plane, so as to be 
adapted to the flexed state of the knee joint, and pass from the thigh 
to the heel. A fracture bed is also used for the purpose of forming 
an inclined plane. Sir B. Brodie describes the use of Earle's bed- 
stead in such a manner as to form three inclined planes, one of 
which raises the shoulders, another the thighs, and a third supports 
the leg. In this manner, there can be very little motion. 

14 a b d 4. 



42 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

Spine. Much more can be accomplished in the prevention, 
than in the cure of spitial disease. The exciting causes of scrofu- 
lous caries of the spine must be considered to be the pressure pro-- 
duced by the weight of the trunk, owino to the weakness of the[ 
muscles that ought to support this weight. By giving strength t(>| 
the muscles of the spine, chest, and shoulders, the weight is pro-j 
perly supported and the spine strengthened. Tliese complaints are 
most common among females, owing to the causes that have beeiii 
already alluded to. 

There are many of the gymnastic games practised in France,] 
and represented in the large work of Delpech, which might perhaps 
be practised here by young ladies without too great a sacrifice 
decorum. The triangle is almost, if not quite, the only machine 
of the kind that is used among us. Delpech has given representa-J 
tions of a large number of these machines. Such are, the balance 
the plays upon the loose rope, the oblique and the horizontal ropes 
cfec. the object of all which is to accustom the pupil to support th< 
whole weight of her body, by her hands, in climbing, swingingrj 
(fcc. and thus to give powerful developement and strength to th< 
pectoral muscles, and in fact all the muscles of the back, spine,' 
arms, and chest. By exercises of this kind, employed daily, such 
an effect is produced, that a greater part of the danger of spinal 
curvature is avoided. While upon this subject, we may notice an 
effect of the use of stays, which we have not seen mentioned by 
any writer but Dr. Barlow in the Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine. 
This is, that by furnishing an artificial support to the upper part 
of the body, they deprive the muscles of the trunk of their proper 
office, which consequently obey the general law of the system that 
powers which are disused are at length lost. This is an effect not 
generally understood, it being commonly supposed that all objection 
to the article of dress in question is obviated by avoiding tight 
lacing. The games or plays above mentioned have also the good 
effect of promoting the general health, by giving sufficient exercise, 
and obviating constipation, a fertile cause of spinal disease. In 
incipient spinal curvature, they restore the proper form of the spine. 
In this case, cold ablution, or the shower or common bath, should 
be used daily. Friction with a brush or coarse towel, should be 
employed for at least half an hour a day, and exercise in the open 
air, especially upon horseback, is very important. The use of 
dumb bells from their being easy to keep at hand is very con- 
venient, and is a very good exercise. In this manner curvature of 
the spine may be prevented, or it maybe removed before caries has 
taken place to any extent. After this has occurred, an entirely dif- 
ferent course must be adopted. The recumbent posture must be 
observed in order to remove all pressure from the diseased parts, 
and entire rest must be enforced. In the angular curvature, where 
the body of the vertebras has become carious, it is useless to at- 
tempt to preserve the form of the spine, as in so doing we defeat 
the object of nature. It is out of the question to avoid deformity. 



I 



WARREN ON SCROFULA. 43 

The principal object must be to strengthen the system. Where the 
child cannot be kept in the recumbent posture, a contrivance should 
be worn for the support of the upper part of the body, fixed upon 
the pelvis and shoulders. Blisters, setons, &c. often do harm by 
the irritation tliey produce. 

Psoas and Lumbar Abscess. The treatment recommended by 
Sir A. Cooper, is to open this abscess, as soon as a blush or redness 
is perceived upon the skin. A small valvular opening is made to 
discharge the matter, and immediately closed again, and pressure 
with a bandage applied. He considers the advantage of blisters 
or setons doubtful. Benefit is often derived from injecting solu- 
tions of sulphate of zinc or of alum into the abscess. 

Rhachitis. A bandage should be applied around the head, to 
prevent the effects of arterial pressure. Exercise is of importance. 
Two springs of steel may be added to the stays, one upon each side 
of the spine. AVhen the knees are affected in boys, horseback ex- 
ercise is of great advantage. Children maybe accommodated with 
rocking horses. 

The treatment of scrofulous affections of the heart, lungs, brain, 
and other viscera, excepting in as far as it is included in that of the 
scrofulous diathesis generally, would be out of place here, even if 
any particular local treatment were of service. But as the marks 
of scrofulous disease of the viscera, with the exception of the lungs, 
are seldom ascertainable during life, they admit of no local treat- 
ment. For the treatment of consumption, we must refer to the 
many and valuable works upon the subject, of recent date. 

March, 1839. 



DISSERTATION 



ON 



" THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF RHEUMATISM." 



Frustra fatigamus remediis aegrop." 



There is no name of a disease more familiar to the public, as well 
as to medical men, than rheumatism ; none that an unprofessional 
man would think more simple and intelligible. Such a one would 
say, "every body knows what rheumatism is." Yet, what is rheu- 
matism? Is it a local or a constitutional affection ? is it inflamma- 
tory or nervous ; a disease of the muscles, or the arteries, or the 
ligaments, or the bones? In what manner does it transfer itself, 
suddenly and violently, without obvious cause, from one extremity 
to another, attackinof a sound part at a distance from that first af- 
fected, and leaving the former, as well as the intervening parts free 
from disease. Above all, what connection has acute rheumatism 
with disease of the heart ? 

Sydenham's description of the disease is brief. According to 
him it occurs at any one season, but principally in autumn, and 
chiefly aflfects those in the prime of life. It is generally occasioned 
by exposing the body to cold air, immediately after having heated 
it by violent exercise, or in some other way. It begins with a 
chilliness and shivering, which are soon succeeded secondly by 
heat. Thirdly, in a day or two, or sometimes sooner, there arises 
an acute pain in some one or other of the limbs, especially in the 
wrist, shoulder, and knees ; which, shifting between whiles, aflfects 
the parts alternately, leavins: a redness and swelling in the parts 
last affected. Fourthly, in the beginning of the illness, the fever 
and the above symptoms do sometimes come on together, but the 
fever goes off gradually whilst the pain continues and sometimes 
increases. 

Cullen described rheumatism, "as a disease from an external 
and often an evident cause ; pyrexia ; pains about the joints, fol- 
lowing the course of the muscles ; fixing upon the knees and larger 



46 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

joints, in preference to those of the feet and hands ; increased by 
external heat. 

Scudamore says, the fibrous textures of the body are the true 
seat of rheumatism, and most commonly the tendinous structure is 
the part affected. 

Dr. Good is inclined to the belief that the arteries are concerned 
in rheumatism, and, in support of this suggestion, he mentions a 
case furnished by M. Barde. 

All authors make a distinction between acute rheumatism, com- 
monly known inider the name of rheumatic fever, and chronic 
rheumatism. Our attention will be given in the first place to the 
former. 

Acute rheumatism is attended with a more violent fever, than 
corresponds with the degree of local inflammation. The pulse is 
from 90 to 110, or 120, full, not hard, not tense and incompressible, 
but compressible and bounding, like the pulse of healthy persons 
quickened by exercise, and indicative of great arterial action. One 
writer maintains that there is a peculiarity in the pulse that will 
alone prove the existence of the disease. The respiration is highly 
accelerated. The tongue is covered with a white pasty coat, but 
is not thickly furred. The bowels are costive. The urine is 
scanty, loaded with urea, uric acid, or lithic acid, reddening litmus 
paper. It is high coloured, often as dark and thick as porter, and 
early deposits a copious lateritious sediment. It has been de- 
scribed, also, as resembling the lees of new or sweet wine, or the 
urine of mares. The skin is hotter than in most other inflamma- 
tions, but the perspiration takes place freely ; and in a day or two 
it becomes offensively sour, exhalina: an extremely disagreeable 
odour, by which some undertake to distinguish the disease. These 
perspirations form an essential feature of the complaint. They 
exhaust the strength of the patient without relieving him. There 
is great tolerance of venesection, and the patient bears much loss 
of blood without fainting. The blood is highly cupped and buffed, 
and continues so after repeated bleedings. 

Tlie invasion of acute rheumatism is generally preceded for a 
week or two by certain premonitory symptoms, which deseive 
more attention than they have generally met with. These symp- 
toms, (according to M. Roche.) "are " malaises" of every kind, con- 
gestion in different org^ans, giddiness, ringing in the ears, bleedings 
from the nose, burning in the throat, (chaleurs de la gor^e,) palpi- 
tation, oppression, hemorrhoids, <fcc., all which announce a too 
fibrinous state of the blood. By Dr. Barlow's theory, the symp- 
toms of plethora must for some time precede rheumatism. These 
are those above mentioned, and such as belong to the state of false 
adynamia, that attends too great fulness of the blood vessels lan- 
jruor, debility, &c. Such are the signs by which a patient, who 
has suffered from rheumatism, may recognise the appearance of a 
fresh attack, but they are hardly sufficient to point it out where 
there is no known predisposition to the disease ; but when to these 



I 



WARRKN ON RHEUMATISM. 47 

is added a white tongue, fixed or wandering: pains in the limbs, and 
especially in the joints, the nature of the disease is rendered cer- 
tain. 

J)r. Barlow, in the Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, goes into 
the consideration of the nature of acute rheumatism, as to its con- 
stituting a local or a constitutional affection ; as to whether the 
local affection is to be considered prior in its origin, and the exci- 
ting cause of the constitutional affection, or whether it is secondary 
to the latter, and dependant upon some general morbid condition of 
the system. Dr. Barlow arrives at the latter conclusion, which is 
in accordance with the opinions of writers, as well as with general 
practice and experience. For in acute rheumatism it is well known, 
that topical applications are of little importance, and that the treat- 
ment to be efficient must be applied to the constitutional affection. 
Dr. Barlow, like many others, places the constitutional affection in 
the blood, and maintains that it arises from plethora. An extra- 
ordinary degree of health, he says, always precedes rheumatic at- 
tacks. There is a redundancy of nutritive matter in the blood, and 
hence congestion, producing a state of weakness or false adynamia. 
Inflammatory fever is first excited by the excess of fibrine, and then 
rheumatism succeeds. The pains run along wherever the blood is 
distributed. Venesection is the principal remedy which diminishes 
the mass of blood, and thus puts an end to the disease, by removing 
the excess of stimulus. The editor of the Med. Chirurg. Review, 
whose opinions are in general highly judicious, maintains a similar 
opinion ; to wit that an excessively fibrinous state of the blood is 
the cause of rheumatism. 

" Of all the tribe of the phlegmasiae," he says, " there is none in 
which the blood is more seriously altered from a healthy state, 
than in acute rheumatism. If this be true, and the proofs are so 
numerous and well known to every experienced physician, that it 
is unnecessary to enlarge upon them we are bound to consider 
the disease as affecting not only the solids but also the fluids in 
short, to regard rheumatism as partly and to a certain degree a 
humoral disease. The blood has undergone certain changes, the 
most important perhaps of which seems to be a great and dispro- 
portionate increase in the quantity of the fibrinous matter." 

Dr. Alison (History of Medicine) says, that the inflammation of 
rheumatism is strictly specific, although the particular ingredients 
in the blood cannot be ascertained. That there is something pecu- 
liar in the vital constitution of the blood, he considers as rendered 
extremely probable, by the nature of the peculiarities that most 
highly distinguish it, by its tendency to affect different parts in 
rapid succession, by the total absence of suppuration as an effect 
of this inflammation, by the comparatively increased proportion of 
the fibrine, and the complete separation of it in the blood, and by 
the remarkable proportion of fibrine in the exudation produced 
when it affects the heart. 

According to M. Magendie, the blood in acute rheumatism is 



43 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

thickened and incrassated, the particles of the fluid becoming too 
gross to pass through the minute vessels. It therefore stagnates 
in the aflTectod parts, loses its heat, and hence occasions the sensa- 
tion of cold felt by the patient himself, and sometimes perceptible 
to the bystander. This theory is in accordance with Boerhaave^s 
general doctrine of inflammation. 

John Hunter maintains, that the difl^erence in diflferent inflam- 
mations does not consist in the parts they affect; and this he proves 
from the fact, that in cases of wounds all the parts injured take on 
the same inflammation. If the wound is closed immediately, skin, 
cellular membrane, muscle, tendon, <fcc. all take on the adhesive 
inflammation. If it remain open, they take the suppurative. We 
do not have the erysipelatous in the skin, the suppurative in th 
cellular membrane, the adhesive in the muscular, and the rheu- 
matic in the serous membranes, but we have the same in all. Dr. 
Hope gives the following reasons for believing that the inflamma- 
tion of acute rheumatism is peculiar. It will hardly be denied by 
those who have seen or suffered from it, that it is an inflammation. 

I. " The migration to all parts of the fibrous tissue is unique. 
You see it not in inflammation of any other tissue, nor even in 
common inflammation of the fibrous tissue." 

II. " The very slight tendency to suppuration, ulceration, and 
adhesion, is peculiar, for all these processes are common in ordinary 
inflammation of fibrous tissues, as from injuries, (fee." 

III. "The perspirations are unique, even the whiteness of the 
tongue is singular." 

IV. " The excessive buffing and cupping of the blood, sometimes 
even after the utmost possible venesection, is extraordinary, and 
seems to indicate something peculiar in the constitution of the 
blood." 

V. " Experience shows this disease is less certainly and uni- 
formly relieved by antiphlogistic treatment than other inflamma- 
tions." 

" All these circumstances evince, I think, something peculiar, 
' specific,' in the system, or if you please in the vital constitution of 
the blood, which I believe is M. Andral's opinion." 

" I have dwell a little on this subject, because, if the inflammation 
be specific, we are not rigidly bound, in the treatment, by the ordi- 
nary principles of inflammation, if we find them less than usually 
successful ; but are justified in circumspect deviations approved by 
experience." 

M. Roche, also, who agrees with Bouillaud as to the extent of 
blood letting, tells us that it appears certain that in rheumatism, 
besides the articular inflammation, there is an alteration in the 
blood, "qui tient meme en partie celle-ci sous sa dependance." The 
precursory symptoms show, he says, a state of plethora, and conse- 
quently prove that the blood is too fibrinous, and that this liquid is 
become too exciting for the organs with which it is continually put 
in contact. A simple state of plethora cannot give rise to such 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 49 

symptoms. The blood, drawn before the articular inflammation is 
developed, is as hio^hly cupped and buffed as afterwards. 

The reviewer of M. Bouillaud's work, in the Med. Chirur^. Re- 
view, maintains that there always is a peculiarity of the pulse by 
which alone he can recognise rheumatism. He applies to it the 
term Jleeting. It throbs against the finger as strong and full as in 
other inflammations, but instead of continuing its impulse for an 
appreciable time, it flies onward with the rapidity as it were of 
lightning. This is the case whether the patient has been bled or 
not. The reviewer considers it as expressive of a highly irritated 
state of the heart, which in his opinion always exists in acute 
rheumatism. 

An additional proof of the alteration of the blood in acute rheu- 
matism may be found in the state of the urine. 

From the quotations and references above given, it would seem 
that if the case is not made out in favour of those who hold the 
theory of the alteration of the blood, there is at least a very respect- 
able bulk of evidence in their favour. Still, there are many who 
maintain the reverse opinion, and see nothing specific or peculiar 
in the affection. M. Bouillaud's opinion appears to be, that rheu- 
matism depends only upon a highly excited state of the circulation. 

Diagnosis. It is said by writers generally, that there is no dif- 
ficulty in the diagnosis of rheumatism from any other disease but 
gout. The hereditary nature of gout, its proceeding from an in- 
ternal cause, and its being confined to the smaller joints, while 
rheumatism prefers the larger the difference in the pain, and its 
periodical occurrence, are the most striking marks of distinctioo. 
Dr. Gregory observes, that it is by no means easy to distingufsh 
chronic rheumatism of the sclerotica. "Lumbago has been mis- 
taken for nephralgia or lumbar abscess ; rheumatism of the inter- 
costal muscles for pleurisy, and sciatica for ulceration within the 
cavity of the acetabulum." Rheumatism is very liable to be con- 
founded with nervous affections, and nervous affections, on the 
other hand, mistaken for rheumatism. Neuralgia of the head has 
of late become a fashionable disease among us, though formerly we 
heard only of rheumatic headaches. Many of these painful affec- 
tions are very difficult in practice to distinguish. Dr. Nichols, in 
his "Annual Discourse," seems to resolve rheumatism into "irrita- 
tion of the nerves," and to connect it with an affection of the spinal 
marrow. To distinguish irritation from inflammation is, in many 
cases, no such easy task. How many poor children have been bled 
to death in the hydrocephaloid disease of Dr. Hall ? How many 
persons have lost their lives from venesection, in other cases of 
"irritation from loss of blood," or from similar causes ? 

The followinor case came under the observation of this writer. 
A lady lost her child after undergoing much fatigue in watching, 
<fcc. during his illness. She was seen by an experienced physician 
who had attended her child. She complained of violent pain in 



60 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

t\v3 bick and limbs, which he without much examination imputed 
to fatii^ue. prescribed quinine and a full diet. She found her pain 
increase very much under this course, abandoned it, and asked the 
advice of a medical friend. He found her labouring under acute 
rheumatism. The pain in the back was severe, particularly at 
nicrht coming on after she went to bed. He prescribed low diet, 
and a larjj^e mustard poultice to the back. The next night the dis- 
ease migrated to the forehead and eyes, and her sufferings became 
very severe. Leeches were applied with considerable relief. Guaia- 
cum, combined with jalap, was now given as a cathartic, and the 
low diet continued, under which course the pain abated, and the 
disease gradually went off. 

The writer has often seen neuralgia of the head mistaken for in- 
flammation of the brain. 

Rheumatism may undoubtedly attack the neurilema, as has 
been already said. There is a disease which sometimes comes on 
as suddenly as a flash of lightning, as in the following case. A. B. 
was suddenly seized in the evening with a violent pain in the small 
of the back, extending forward to the walls of the abdomen, aflect- 
ing the breathins:. He said it came on like a musket shot. He 
had been affected with catarrh for souie time previous. The pain 
was steady, not dartins: like that in neuralgia. He was freely 
purged with calomel and jalap, a large sinapism applied to the 
back, and a pill containing opium, calomel, and antimony, given 
every two hours. The pain subsided towards evening, and did 
not return. 

Mrs. A. H. while stopping at a friend's house in Boston, on her 
"Way from Charleston to Dorchester, was suddenly seized with vio- 
lent pain in the back. The writer saw her the next morning. The 
treatment was much the same as in the former case. The sinapism 
removed the pain in a short time, and on the third morning she 
was able to set out for home. 

Mr. A. Z., while standing in the street, was suddenly seized with 
a pain in the calf of the right leg. After getting home, the pain 
continued steady in the same spot ; easy when perfectly at rest, 
but very painful when moved or touched. There was swelling of 
the whole limb. He was old and his constitution nearly broken 
up ; the confinement, anxiety, and uneasiness, as well as the pain, 
brought on great disorder of the stomach, which in a few days was 
succeeded by cough and hemorrhage from the lungs, which were 
previously weak ; and he died about a fortnight after the com- 
mencement of the attack. It was remarkable in this case, that the 
pain was confined to one spot, apparently the fascia of the gastroc- 
nemius muscle, and did not extend from this, or quit its place. He 
never suffered from pain elsewhere ; there was therefore no metas- 
tasis to the vital parts, though the pain subsided when the stomach 
became disordered. When at rest he was free from pain. The 
complaint was therefore rheumatic. 

The nature of the pain in the other cases proves them rheumatic 



WAIIREN ON RHEUMATISM. 51 

also. Neuralgic pains are as sudden in their onset, liit they are 
characterised by their shooling-, coming on and going otf like 
flashes of light. They are unattended with infiammation. llie 
effect on the system is trifling in comparison to the degree of suf- 
fering. The pulse is quickened, but has not the fulness or force of 
an inflammatory pulse. With regard to the pains, however, the 
reason that neuralgic or irritative pains are so often mistaken for 
inflammatory, is, that the patients are in such suffering that they 
can give no distinct account of their symptoms. 

In common parlance, every thing that proceeds from a cold is 
called rheumatic, and hence, even by medical men, the term is apt 
to be used as synonymous with catarrhal. Dr. Mackenzie, for in- 
stance, as we shall see hereafter, uses the appellations rheumatic 
and catarrhal ophthalmia as synonymous. But the constitutional 
condition that precedes rheumatism, its nature, and its seat, sufli- 
ciently distinguish it from common catarrh, or the effects of cold. 

Dr. Hall, after Chomel, makes the following divisions of rheu- 
matism according to the parts of the body which it affects, thus : 

1st. Pia mater and brain. Rheumatism of the head. Hemicrania. 
2d. Pleura and lungs. " " Thorax. Pleurodynia. 

3d. Pericardium and heart. " " Diaphragm. 

4th. Pleura and diaphragm. " " Loins. Lumbago. 

5th. Peritoneum and liver. 

It is not the writer's purpose to take up these divisions in order. 
Rheumatism is best described as a disease of a particular texture ; 
it is too migratory in its nature to be considered as belonging to 
any particular part, and is much the same wherever found, unless 
when a vital organ is affected. Dr. Hall does not include rheuma- 
tism of the eyes in his divisions ; and it is not described by many 
writers. Every one must have seen the eyes become affected by 
migration or metastasis, in a patient suffering from acute rheuma- 
tism. The cornea and the conjunctiva are the parts attacked, and 
the person suffers most excruciating pain. This is not, however, 
the rheumatic ophthalmia described by Mackenzie, for in that the 
pain is confined to the coats of the eye. The pain is comparatively 
slight, and it is unpreceded by constitutional affection. It is in 
fact merely catarrhal ophthalmia. 

Rheumatism of the chest is liable to be confounded with pleu- 
risy. It is distinguished by being more diffused, and attended with 
great heat. The pain is increased by very slight pressure even 
upon the sternum. In pleurisy, the pressure to produce pain must 
be hard and made between the ribs. The rheumatism will also 
generally be found in some other part of the body. 

A form of rheumatism has been described as above mentioned by 
Dr. Good, and others, affecting the arteries and veins. This is not 
to be distinguished by any particularly diagnostic symptoms ; it is 
most probably, as in the case quoted by Dr. Good, connected^with 
pericarditis or endocarditis, and not a primary disease. 

Rheumatism of the peritoneum, (fee. when violent, may be mistaken 



52 BOYLBSTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

for gastritis or enteritis. It is distinguished by being more in- 
creased by nfiotion than by pressure, though the sHghtest pressure 
is painful. 

Seat and Pathology op Acute Rheumatism. It has been 
a subject of much discussion, whether the seat of rheumatism is in 
the muscular, the tendinous, or the synovial system. Scudamore 
says that the fibrinous structures are the true seat of rheumatism, 
and most commonly the tendinous texture is the part affected. 
Whether in a muscle the constituent parts are each primarily af- 
fected, or whether it is confined to the tendinous portions alone, he 
does not determine, though he thinks the latter most probable. 
Some writers, as Dr. Good, for example, are of opinion that the 
muscular fibres participate in the disease ; while M. Bouillaud and 
his followers would confine acute rheumatism to the synovial 
membranes. M. Brachet, of Lyons. Johnson, Macleod, Hope, and 
many others of eminence, on the other hand, maintain that it is a 
disease of the white fibrous, not muscular, membranes. This system 
is expanded over the whole body: wherever there is muscle, there 
is aponeurosis, or fascia, or tendon, or periosteum. The fibrous and 
serous textures, the aponeurotic expansions which cover the mus- 
cles, the periosteum, and fibrous coverings of the nerves, the cornea 
and sclerotic coat of the eye, are, according to them, the parts most 
frequently affected. Dr. Chambers has drawn a distinction be- 
tween the acule fibrous rheumatism, and the synovial rheumaUsm] 
and in this distinction he has been followed by Dr. Hope and other 
Encrlish writers. It is probable, that an attentive examination of 
the early history and progress of acute rheumatism, would show 
that it is confined to the textures above mentioned, the white fibrous 
textures. In many cases the affection commences in the middle of 
the sole of the foot, apparently in a tendon : it gradually extends 
upwards, the pain being felt in the whole course of the leg, until it 
reaches the thigh, and produces pain and swelling, not in any par- 
ticular joint, but equally through the whole limb; the swelling, 
however, is principally confined to the lower part. Here it will 
remain stationary, or, leaving this locality, it by mioralion or me- 
tastasis suddenly affects the leg or the arm of the opposite side, as 
in the case which will be given hereafter. The pain also, in acute 
rheumatism, is felt not in the joint, but in the course of the limb: 
often seeming to extend up and down the long bones. Dr. Barlow 
tells us, "the pains run along wherever the blood is distributed." 

Patients so seldom die during or immediately after an attack of 
acute rheumatism, that few opportunities can be obtained for ex- 
amining the state of the joints. A case is copied into the Med. 
Chirurg. Review, April, 1837, from the Journal Hebdomadaire, in 
which the history and post mortem examination is given in full. 
The patient had acute rheumatism of the knees, hips, loins, and 
afterwards of the ankles and wrist. The heart became affected, 
delirium ensued, and he died in about thirty-one days from the 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 53 

commencement of the attack. All the joints which had been affected 
were carefully examined. The swelling had subsided ; there was 
no trace of inflammatory blush in the synovial membranes, the 
synovia was in moderate quantities, viscid, semi transparent, and 
of a yellowish colour, and inodorous. All the component parts 
of these joints presented no appreciable alteration, either in their 
consistence, their colour, or their thickness. In the same number 
of the Review, two cases are mentioned from M. Chomel's Clinical 
Report. In one patient who died from endocarditis, all the affected 
joints were minutely examined, but not the slightest mark of mor- 
bid change was found in any of them. The other was a patient in 
the Hotel Dieu, who died also from endocarditis : the results of the 
post mortem examination were equally null with regard to the 
rheumatism. Dr. Macleod says, that in two instances in which he 
was enabled to examine the state of the parts first affected, owing 
to the disease having proved fatal by extending to the heart, he 
found no striking result. " The external redness had disappeared 
in both cases, and the swelling was very much diminished, so that 
nothing appeared but a certain portion of serum and lymph, in the 
subcutaneous cellular membrane. The ligamentous tissues ap- 
peared /;erAa/?5 rather thicker than natural, but without redness; 
the synovial membrane without any apparent participation in the 
disease." Dr. M. thinks it probable that the ligaments and the 
other white, dense, fibrous tissues, are the primary seats of the dis- 
ease, whence it extends to the other tissues. It appears then that 
this form of the disease does not in general produce any serious 
organic change in the part in which it is seated. Indeed, from the 
fugitive nature it evinces, we need not be surprised that this is the 
case. Notwithstanding the extreme suffering produced, notwith- 
standing the swelling, heat, and redness, so often witnessed, it has 
in general no tendency to suppuration, and frequently deserts its 
seat as suddenly as if by magic, and leaves hardly a perceptible 
trace behind. In an extremely violent case of acute rheumatism, 
which will hereafter be related, in which the left hip joint was for 
several days the seat of extreme pain and spasm ; this joint was 
left perfectly well on the recovery of the patient : but what is sin- 
gular, the opposite joint has since (though several years hare now 
passed) been the constant or at least occasional seat of weakness 
and pain, which is felt when particular motions of the limb, which 
strain the ligaments, are executed. 

By some, rheumatism has been considered as affecting the mus- 
cular system, at least occasionally. The soreness of the flesh, and 
the pain which attends any muscular motion, has undoubtedly 
given rise to this belief, the pain sometimes appearing superficial, 
and pervading the whole muscular substance. The soreness to 
the touch is also extreme in acute rheumatism. The swelling, ac- 
cording to Dr. Hope, arises from vascular turgescence, and serous 
effusions into the fibrous and cellular tissues, and sometimes there 
is a little synovial effusion into any contiguous synovial membrane, 



54 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

such as sheaths of tendons, hursae, <fcc. the inflammation extend- 
ini{ from the fibrous to the synovial membrane by contiguity of 
tissue. That the muscular fibre is not the seat of rheumatism, 
seems to be proved by several circumstances. In the first place, 
muscle, as far as we know, is not capable of intense pain, while we 
know that the white fibrous membranes, though nearly insensible 
in health, become possessed of the most acute sensibilify in disease. 
The rapid migration of the disease also, can be much more readily 
explained upon the principle of its being seated in the fibrous tis- 
sue. The pain, also, is in general, deep-seated, not superficial, 
(although the external parts are acutely sensible to the touch) but 
the steady pain that is felt when the limb is at rest, seems to be in 
the bone, or in the centre of the joint itself. It is probable that the 
periosteum is often affected, even where the disease is migratory. 
Scudamore says, that from frequent careful examination of the 
whole course of a muscle by pressure, the inference has in general 
clearly presented itself to him, that its internal structure has not 
been the seat of the complaint. The immediate recovery of mus- 
cular action as soon as the disease leaves it, by migration or other- 
wise, shows that the disease does not affect the muscle ; while on 
the other hand, in a joint affected with articular rheumatism, occa- 
sionally pains and difliculty of motion remain for months or years. 
It is evident, that the pain attendant upon muscular motion or 
effort, does not show that the muscle is the seat of disease, since the 
whole joint or limb is excessively swollen and tense, and the mus- 
cles cannot contract without pressing upon some diseased tissue. 
Muscular motion is also attended with motion of the joints. 

Rheumatic Affections of the Heart. The tendency of 
rheumatism to attack the white fibrous membranes, and the con- 
tinuity and extent of these membranes through every part of the 
system, accounts for the frequency with which the pericardium is 
affected by migration or metastasis. The coincidence of an affec- 
tion of the heart with acute rheumatism was first observed in Eng- 
land by Dr. Pitcairn, in 1788. But the first published observations 
were contained in Dr. Baillie's Morbid Anatomy, published in 
1797. Sir D. Dundas published a paper upon the subject, in the 
first volume of the Med. Chirurg. Transactions, in 1808, and Dr. 
Wells a more copious one, read to a society for medical and sur- 
gical improvement, on rheumatism of the heart, with a number of 
cases in 1810. In France, Corvisart noticed this affection, but still 
it does not appear to have been treated with much attention either 
in France or England, until recently. The fatality ascribed by 
Corvisart to diseases of the heart, and its envelopes, has prevented 
the belief of its occurrence in many cases of acute rheumatism, 
which has always been regarded as seldom fatal. It is undoubt- 
edly true, that pericarditis is much less fatal than was formerly 
supposed, as has been proved by Louis ; rheumatism is much more 
so in its remote consequences organic disease of the heart being 



WARKEN ON RHEUMATISM. 55 

the frequent iiltiinate result of a rheiunatic attack. Chomel, one of 
the principal F^rench writers on rheumatism, does not allude to the 
affection of the heart. Andral, indeed, describes a case which he 
considers as metastasis, hut Laennec, and even Louis, pass it over 
in silence. In this state of things, M. Bouillaud, writing in 1836, 
claims the merit of discoverino^ the frequency of this connection. 
Sufficient has been said to show that this connection was under- 
stood in England, and we find allusions to it in most writers upon 
rheumatism. Still the labours of M. Bouillaud have undoubtedly- 
thrown much light upon the subject, and attracted great attention 
to its frequency, both in England and France. M. Bouillaud, like 
most of those engaged ardently in a particular enquiry, has proba- 
bly been led into the discovery of the disease he looked for, in many 
cases where it did not exist. He estimates the coincidence of peri- 
carditis and endocarditis, as will be seen, at one half of the whole 
number of cases of acute rheumatism. 

This writer observes that he has found an inflammation of the 
internal membrane of the blood-vessels, often accompanying acute 
articular rheumatism. 

An acute affection of the heart, he found to be the most usual 
accompaniment of rheumatism. Pericarditis existed in about one 
half of the cases. Pericarditis, under a larger point of view, he 
says, is an inflammation of the sero-fibrous tissues in general, 
developed under a special influence. He gives ninety-two cases 
in his work on diseases of the heart, thirty-seven of pericarditis, 
and fifty-five of endocarditis. Seventeen of pericarditis, and four- 
teen of endocarditis, corresponded with acute articular rheuma- 
tism. Articular rheumatism, therefore, was found to exist in a 
third part of the cases, but althous^h not observed in the other 
cases, M. Bouillaud is not confident that it did not exist in the re- 
mainder. 

Pericarditis, he says, is certain, when the following symptoms are 
present. A dull sound over the precordial region, much more ex- 
tended than in the normal condition, (double, triple, in every direc- 
tion,) an arched form of the same region, remote beatings of the 
heart, but little or not at all sensible to the touch, sounds of the 
heart distant, obscure, accompanied with different abnormal sounds, 
some arising from the rubbing of the opposite coats of the pericar- 
dium against each other, others from the complication of pericar- 
ditis with valvular endocarditis. A pain more or less acute at that 
region of the heart, palpitations, irregularities, inequalities, and 
intermissions of the pulse, are sometimes conjoined with the above 
symptoms. 

Endocarditis, says M. Bouillaud, is certainly coincident with 
acute articular rheumatism, whenever the following signs are pre- 
sent. 

" Bellows, file, or saw sound, in the precordial region, with a 
dulness of this part on percussion to an extent much more consi- 
derable than in the normal state, and which also presents, but in a 



56 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

less degree, than pericarditis with effusion, an elevation, or abnor- 
mal archinof ; the movements of the heart elevate with force the 
precordial region ; and they are often irregular, intermittent, une- 
qual, and accompanied at limes with a vibratory trembling. The 
pulse is hard, strong, vibrating unequal, intermittent, like the beat- 
ings of the heart." 

It is often difficult, he says, to distinguish between pericarditis 
and endocarditis : the distinction is easy, with experience, in well 
marked cases, but in others it is not so. 

Drs. Watson and Latham, say, that pericarditis, (fee. accompanies 
acute rheumatism in all its forms and degrees; that it is as fre- 
quently the attendant of mild cases as severe ones. Dr. Macleod, 
on the other hand, is of opinion that the more violent the disease, 
the more liable is the pericardium to become affected ; a conclusion 
more consonant to probability. There are two principal sounds 
that denote that the heart or pericardium is affected. Dr. Stokes 
and Dr. Watson were the first in England to point out the means 
of recognising disease of this membrane, by the "to and fro" or rub- 
bing sound. This rubbing- sound is supposed to be produced by 
the rubbing of the opposite folds of the pericardium against each 
other ; either from a morbid state of dryness or roughness of these 
membranes. This sound, however, is not perceptible in the early 
stage of the disease ; and it ceases upon the adhesion of the two 
opposite surfaces, or upon the absorption of the lymph which is the 
cause of the roughness. The latter cause is most probably the real 
one. The other sound alluded to is the blowing or whizzing, 
which probably depends upon the increased friction of the blood as 
it passes through the internal apertures of the heart. This is louder, 
and sometimes disguises the former. Sometimes it may be heard 
all over the region of the heart ; but it is generally " most distinct 
at points corresponding with the aortic, and the auriculo ventri- 
cular valves of the left side ; that is to say, where the relative situa- 
tion of the parts is not changed by previous disease, the blowing 
sound will generally be best heard by placing the ear or the end of 
the stethescope at the lower part, and towards the left side of the 
third bone of the sternum for the aortic, and a little further to the 
left for the mitral valves." This blowing sound is produced by an 
affection of the valves of the heart. 

Drs. Graves and Stokes^ have recently published the following 
statement, in regard to the diagnosis of valvular disease of the heart. 

"1st. That the physical signs of valvular disease are not yet 
fully established. 

" 2d. That taken alone, they are in no case sufficient for diagnosis. 

" 3d. That even in organic diseases, the iiature and situation of 
the murmurs may vary in the course of a few days. 

" 4th. That all varieties of valvular murmurs may occur without 
organic disease of the heart. 

Lancet of August 25th, 1838. 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 67 

" Fifthly and lastly. That organic disease of the valves may exist 
to a very great degree without any murmur whatsoever. 
"Of this assertion we shall hereafter bring abundant proofs. 

R. J. Graves. 

W. Stokes." 

This statement has been replied to by Dr. Hope, in the Medical 
Gazette; but it is evident that until the signs of valvular disease 
are universally recognised, they must be considered uncertain. 

Dr. Watson says, that when the inner membrane is afiected, 
which very seldom escapes, the inflammation exercises a kind of 
preference ; its effects are limited in a great measure to the valvular 
apparatus of the heart. 

Occasionally, the natural transparent portion of the membrane 
which covers the muscular fibres is thickened and rendered whitish 
and opaque, and occasionally, some of the deposits that are common 
on the valves, encroach somewhat beyond them, and even stud 
here and there the interior of the several cavities. But the valves, 
or cartilaginous rings from which they spring, are the parts first 
and chiefly implicated, especially the mitral valve, and the aortic 
valves, and not uncommonly the tricuspid valve; also sometimes 
even the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery. Here again 
the fibr)-cartilaginous nature of the part would seem to determine 
the preference of locality. 

The valves become thicker, and lose their transparency and 
pliancy ; become puckered sometimes folded down, or glued to the 
opposite surface but more frequently present vegetations or small 
wart-like granulations or excrescences. This is (ound when death 
takes place at an early period. At a later period, hypertrophy and 
dilatation are met with. 

One of the principal indications of the occurrence of pericarditis 
in rheumatism is pain, which is commonly the severest symptom, 
though sometimes wanting in very grave cases. It varies, also, in 
kind and in degree. Tenderness on pressure, especially by press- 
ing in the intercostal spaces. Palpitation to any notable degree is 
often absent, though the action of the heart is increased to 100 or 
120. A more important indication that the heart is implicated, is 
derived from the aspect of the patient. The anxious expression of 
the countenance, and the evident distress which indicates affections 
of the heart, are well known. The patient lies, in general, on his 
back, or a little to the right, but displays the greatest unwillingness 
to the slightest motion even in order to assume the easiest posi- 
tion. A frequent disposition to syncope is another characteristic 
of this affection. 

The coincidence of pericarditis with rheumatism was formerly 
attributed, as in the case given by Andral above alluded to, to me- 
tastasis, but this opinion is now pretty much abandoned. The dis- 
ease does not, at least in all such instances, leave its original seat. 
Dr. Hope says, he has often seen the heart attacked, while the 
14 b b d ^ 



68 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

disease was in its full intensity in the limbs he has even seen the 
heart attacked first. In two cases of acute rheumatism which we 
purpose to give hereafter, the rheumatism was preceded by an af- 
fection of the heart. The extension of the fibrous tissues throughout 
the system, before noticed, readily explains the manner in which the 
migration ot the disease takes place. 

According to Dr. Macleod, and to Dr. Watson, whose opinion he 
cites upon the subject, this affection occurs principally in very 
young subjects: the younger the child the more disposed he is to 
pericarditis. 

Out of eighty-five cases of acute rheumatism given by Dr. Mac- 
leod, (in the Med. Chirurg. Review, January, 1838) the heart was 
implicated in eighteen, rather more than one fifth. Of these only 
thirty were females, eleven of whom had pericarditis one third 
and only seven of the men. Of the eighteen cases, there was only 
one in which the pain of the limbs was simultaneously alleviated 
on the occrirrence of the pericarditis. In one of these cases the 
pericarditis came on first. Is it not probable, that if the patients 
more accurately recollected their first symptoms, a precursory 
attack of the heart would oftener be found? 

In regard to the fatality of this affection, we have before remark- 
ed, that^ M. Louis has shown that the fatality of pericarditis or 
endocarditis has been much exaggerated. M. Bouillaud says, that 
intense endocarditis is not fatal in many instances even under im- 
proper treatment. He adds, however, that those affections ordina- 
rily leave in their train lesions, called organic^ under which the 
patient finally sinks. " This takes place when pericarditis has 
been followed by thickening, indurations, adhesions, vegetations of 
the valves with deformity, obliteration of these valves, contraction 
of these orifices, dilatation of the cavities, hypertrophy of the mus- 
cular substance, (fee." M. B., however, remarks, that endocarditis 
and pericarditis are less fatal than the true phlegmasiae, as Stohl 
says of other rheumatic inflammations. They extend much in 
surface, but are less in depth. True inflammation, on the contrary, 
makes up in depth what it wants in surface. 

Dr. Macleod treats of acute rheumatism as a very serious affec- 
tion, and Dr. Hope remarks : 

"If then you consider that, independent of the i?nmediaie danger 
of pericarditis and endocarditis, an adhesion of the pericardium, or 
a disease of a valve, so frequently entailed by these diseases, neces- 
sarily cripples a man for life, and often contracts his existence 
within the space of a few years, you will at once see that acute 
rheumatism, formerly considered harmless to life, is really a disease 
of the first magnitude and importance, and always to be regarded 
with anxiety." 

The occurrence of delirium or insanity in consequence of an 
attack of acute rheumatism is not very uncommon. Scudamore, 
says, as a rare occurrence, the dura mater appears to become the 
seat of inflammation under this disease, and the tunica arachnoides 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 59 

becomes excited to increased action. He had seen one case only, 
that of a young lady of delicate constitution, in whom a rapid 
transference of the inflammation of the limbs, from one part to 
another, had taken place previously. The affection of the limbs 
did not cease when the head became disordered. The event was 
speedily fatal. 

Dr. Hope speaks of this affection of the dura mater as so rare, 
as hardly to require notice. It has been fully described by Andral, 
by Dr. Francis Hawkins, by Dr. Latham, by Dr. Watson, and by 
Dr. Macleod, as an accompaniment to the affection of the heart. It 
seldom leaves any perceptible trace after death ; the membranes of 
the brain show no decided marks of inflammation. 

On the whole, it does not appear that rheumatic pericarditis dif- 
fers from pericarditis from other causes ; indeed Dr. Hope, Dr. 
EIliotson,and many others in fact, most of the highest authorities, 
now consider rheumatism as the most frequent cause of pericarditis. 

Dr. Watson says, that the inflammation probably begins in the 
flbrous texture of the pericardium, and then extends rapidly to the 
serous. The consequences are, the effusion of serum, the deposi- 
tion of lymph, adhesions. The inflammation spreads over the 
greater portion or the whole of the serous surface, and when adhe- 
sion does not take place, the deposited lymph assumes a variety of 
forms in different cases; but in every case Dr. W. has found its 
prevailing character to be that of roughness. Sometimes it has a 
cellular arrangement, and is compared to lace work, to a sponge, 
or a honey-comb, or some specimens of coral, or the interior of a 
calfs stomach ; sometimes it bristles with a multitude of small, 
short, pointed, papillae ; less frequently it is softer and shaggy, 
always it is rough or uneven. Dr. EUiotson describes the post 
mortem appearances as the same as those from inflammation of any 
other serous membrane. Sometimes there are stars, and sometimes 
patches, of redness. The redness is seldom deep even in the most 
violent cases. The membrane does not become thickened, hut of 
course a quantity of fibrine is found lying upon it, and a quantity 
of serum is collected in the cavity. Fibrine is found generally in 
very fine layers upon the pericardium, and sometimes these pores, 
these little singularities are very considerable. Laennec has com- 
pared them to two slabs placed together with butter between them, 
and then forcibly separated. A number of knobs then appear with 
little excavations between them. There is often a great deal of 
this exudation, when the redness is considerable, and it glues to- 
gether the two portions of the pericardium. The fluid is not in 
great quantity. Its general appearance is the same as in other 
serous membranes. It is sometimes turbid, of a yellow colour, 
containing a few flakes of lymph ; but sometimes pus, even in large 
quantities, and even witliin the pericardium. Dr. Baillie has found 
the quantity in one case to amount to a quart. No ulceration is 
found. The pus, in these cases, is secreted by a serous exactly as 
by a mucous membrane. 



60 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

One of the most minute and interesting descriptions of the mor- 
bid appearances of pericarditis, has been recently given in the valu- 
able work of Dr. Hodgkin. The secretion of the pericardium, he 
says, is often preternalurally increased, without sensible alterations, 
forming hydrops pericardii, which may in general be distinguished 
from pericarditis by the presence of a few films of false membrane, 
(or non organisable matter.) in the effusion formed by the latter. 
The two diseases tend to pass into each other. When the quality 
as well as the quantity of the effusion is altered, we have either 
coagulable lymph, or an effusion of a more purulent character. 
The former leads to the most perfect cellular adhesions. Some- 
times, the surfaces of the close and reflected portions become so in- 
timately united as to appear identified, and lead to the supposition 
that the pericardium is wanting. In other cases the adhesion is 
looser. In a third variety it is produced by a multitude of filaments, 
and in a fourth by broad and membranous bands. Bridles of ad- 
hesion connecting the opposed surfaces are common. Adhesions 
are always the result of inflammation. When there is much non- 
plastic matter effused, their production is prevented; in which case, 
the surface of the heart is not unfrequently covered with long, 
shaggy, soft, and very feebly organised villi, presenting an appear- 
ance which has undoubtedly given rise to the stories of the heart 
being found covered with hair. In other cases, in which the adhe- 
sion is prevented, the surface of the false membrane presents a reti- 
culated appearance, which has been compared to the bonnet or 
second stomach of the calf. When the matter is of the most inor- 
ganisable kind, it has a puriform appearance. Ossific depositions 
are apt to form upon the attached surface. The pericardium is 
more prone than any other serous membrane to assume a scabrous 
appearance. Dr. Hodgkin, who derives his knowledge upon the 
subject from very numerous post mortem examinations for which 
his situation as Demonstrator of Morbid Anatomy, and Curator of 
the Museum of Guy's Hospital, afforded him remarkable facilities 
maintains that the danger from pericarditis is much overrated, and 
that it is very much more common than has been supposed. 

M. Bouillaud maintains that pericarditis or endocarditis U!?nally 
accompanies acute rheumatism. He says, that in the great ma- 
jority of cases of difl*use articular rheumatism with fever, there 
exists, in a variable degree, a rheumatism of the sero-fibrous tissue 
of the heart ; the coincidence is the rule the non-coincidence the 
exception. His reviewer, in the Medico-Chirurgical, goes farther, 
and maintains that there is some derangement of the heart in every 
case of acute rheumatism. Chomel, on the contrary, says that he 
has tested this matter, and twice only found any other derangement 
in the heart, after careful examination by auscultation and percus- 
sion, than an abnormal sound. He examined forty-nine cases of 
acute rheumatism, without finding endocarditis, or pericarditis. 
M. Bricheteau says, " we ought not to forget that copious detrac- 
tions of blood may of themselves induce the blowing, rasping, or 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 61 

rubbing sounds during the heart's movement, although no inflam- 
mation of any of the structures of the heart be present. The 
blowing sound has been found in a case of peripneumony, where 
the patient had lost upwards of six pounds of blood ; but exhibited, 
on post mortem examination, no traces of any disease of the heart. 
Dr. Elliotson says that pericarditis is most frequently accompanied 
or preceded by rheumatism, possibly, because the same state of the 
system produces both diseases, which on the whole seems a more 
plausible conclusion, than that which considers pericarditis as 
caused by the rheumatism. Pericarditis sometimes appears three 
or four months after rheumatism. Dr. E. has never seen it the re- 
sult of suppressed rheumatism. It is always pericarditis that suc- 
ceeds, and when this has existed for a time, organic changes take 
place. The affection is most frequent in children, even in infants ; 
and children are not liable to any organic disease, except that which 
is produced by scrofula. Pericarditis, according to Dr. Elliotson, 
may be controlled as easily as inflammation in any other part. 

The conclusion that maybe drawn from what has been said, and 
quoted above, is that pericarditis is undoubtedly a much more com- 
mon disease, and a much less fatal one, than has until recently 
been supposed that it most frequently coexists with an acute rheu- 
matic affection, either as the effect of rheumatism or of the same 
constitutional state as that which produces the latter disease. But 
it is by no means proved, that acute rheumatism does not ever, or 
even frequently, exist without pericarditis. With regard to the af- 
fection of the valves of the heart, this often succeeds acute rheuma- 
tism, very possibly from the same constitutional condition, or as a 
consequence of pericarditis ; and makes its appearance at a distant 
period of time. It is, however, to be kept in view, that the causes 
above referred to, the loss of blood for example, may imitate the 
sounds indicative of heart disease ; and that when the ear is strongly 
predisposed to receive certain sounds, it will sometimes be deceived. 
The same thing may be said of the pulse, when it is felt with re- 
ference to peculiar delicate variations, which are perceptible only 
to certain observers. 

Perhaps the true state of the case might be briefly and simply 
expressed, by saying, that in acute fibrous rheumatism, there is a 
strong disposition to the affection of the pericardium, or in other 
words, that the pericardium is highly liable to become affected, in 
that diathesis or condition of the system which constitutes acute 
fibrous rheumatism. 

The two following cases of acute rheumatism, which have been 
already referred to, will illustrate some of the retuarks that have 
been made. 

Feb. A. B. after haying had a cold for some time previous, and 
having been out of health, and subject to anxiety and depression 
of spirits, was attacked towards morning with dyspnoea and a stric- 
ture about the region of the heart, which rendered it impossible to 
lie down in bed. This came on for several nights successively, 



62 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

SO that on the third morning he was compelled to rise several hours 
earlier than usual. The next night, having taken very freely of a 
hot draught to promote perspiration, he slept quietly until day 
break, when he was again disturbed, and obliged to stand some 
time at an open window. In the morning. Feb. 1 1th, he felt per- 
fectly free from pain in the chest, and oppression. In the course 
of the day, a pain came on in a spot in the middle of the inner mar- 
gin of the right foot, apparently at the spot where the tendon of one 
of the muscles of the foot is attached. This was attributed to wear- 
ing new and very thick, stiff boots. This excited little attention. 
He kept in the house, however, most of the time this day in conse- 
quence. 12th. The lameness increased, walked out once during 
the day upon business, without much inconvenience. In the even- 
ing, walked again to a place in a distant part of the city; the wea- 
ther being cold, and the ground covered with snow. The lameness 
increased on this walk, and returning, he found himself much 
lamer at every step, so that it was with difficulty he reached home. 
On withdrawing the boot, it was found impossible to stand ; the foot 
was very much swollen. Slept well that night. 13th. Could not 
put the right foot to the ground. At noon, six or eight leeches were 
applied to the foot. The pain extended up the leg in a direct line. 
Towards evening a pain was felt in the other leg, the pain con- 
tinuing in that first attacked. On going to bed took a Dover's 
powder, and bathed the feet in warm water. The bowels were 
costive. 

14th. Was awoke this morning with violent spasms in the left 
foot and leg, felt principally in the hip joint, and in the toes, which 
were forcibly contracted. The right limb was nearly free from 
pain. Took hyd. submuriat. gr. x ; jalap, gr. x. M. About ten 
A. M., was bled freely from the arm, without much relief of the 
spasms. The spasms continuing after the medicine had operated, 
took laudanum, and through the night a solution of sulphate of 
morphine, ad libitum. 15th. Twelve leeches were applied. 

17th. The spasms continued, but to-day were somewhat less. 
Took a warm bath with considerable relief; but imprudently re- 
mained in three quarters of an hour, and afterwards being wrapt 
up in a blanket, and the room kept very hot, most profuse perspi- 
ration took place, attended with great weakness and diarrhoea. 
The diarrhoea was checked by laudanum, but returned, and con- 
tinued through the night. Partial delirium through the night. 
After this time, the disease abated. The spasms were less severe, 
and the patient, whose leg at first had been kept in a straight posi- 
tion by the spasmodic action, having flexed it while in the bath, 
took the utmost care to avoid extending it. It was some days, 
however, before the spasmodic action ceased ; and afterwards, any 
sudden noise, the opening of a door, or a very slight mental cause, 
would bring it on. This spasmodic action was attended through- 
out with the mo5t intense suffering. While these spasms were 
continuing in the left limb, and subsequently, the disease was 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 63 

pursuing the migratory course it had commenced from the first; 
the arms and legs being attacked successively, one leg swelling 
and becoming painful as the other was relieved, and one arm in 
the same manner swelling and becoming painful as the other be- 
came free the wrist being generally first aflfected, and hence the 
pain proceeding up to the elbow, and next the shoulder joint, the 
whole arm swelling, and the pain appearing to be not oiily in the 
joints, but in the whole course of the long bones. When the pain 
ceased, the parts were left numb and palsied. But although one 
hmb was relieved as the other became affected, it was not exempt 
from repeated attacks. As soon as a joint was affected, a blister or 
a sinapism was applied, at the earnest desire of the patient, who 
experienced great relief from the change of pain. The moment 
they produced their effect by drawing a blister, or exciting consi- 
derable irritation, the pain subsided in the part, but soon reappeared 
in one of its former haunts. The pain felt was of every possible 
description ; it was severe when the parts were at rest, but increased 
by motion, sometimes sharp and lancinating, sometimes burning, 
sometimes pricking, sometimes a dull heavy aching. It was in 
general aggravated by motion : but it was not the fear of pain that 
caused the loss of the power of motion it was after they became 
free from pain, that the temporary palsy took place. It seemed that 
the suffering had deprived the part for a time of its ordinary func- 
tions. The urine was at first almost suppressed; afterwards scanty, 
bowels confined. Upon the 16th, and several days subsequently, 
there came on a sensation in the chest, as if of collapse of the lungs, 
attended by great weariness and exhaustion. This was relieved 
almost immediately by hot port wine and water. During conva- 
lescence a verv strict antiphlogistic diet was enforced, and laxa- 
tives given when required. No opiates were given after the 17th, 
although the patient obtained hardly any sleep. The warm bath 
was repeated once. In a fortnight from the time the attack com- 
menced, he was free from pain, though very much reduced and 
emaciated. About a week after he left his chamber. In a week 
later he was able to walk out, four weeks from the commencement 
of it. The left limb, particularly the hip joint, however, recovered 
very gradually and slowly; and continued weak and lame for some 
weeks. Two or three months after this, he first perceived a weak- 
ness in the right hip joint, which was felt only on executing cer- 
tain motions. This has since continued. This joint did not ap- 
parently suffer but very slightly during the acute attack. The 
right shoulder joint has also continued aflfected in the same man- 
ner. For some time after his recovery, slight pains would be felt 
always after exposure to cold or wet, and what is worthy of atten- 
tion, a diet a little more stimulant than ordinary would veiy soon 
exhibit its effects in the production of pain. 

Remarks. In the first place, it may be observed, that the pa- 
tient, who was the reverse of a plethoric subject, instead of having 



64 BOYLKSTON PRFZE DISSERTATIONS. 

been in unusually good health previous to the attack, had been for 
a long time indisposed, subject to indigestion, lassitude, and mental 
anxiety. This state may possibly, in some cases, be considered as 
characteristic of plethora, but certainly not of good health. In the 
next place, the premonitory symptoms from the time that pain com- 
menced in the foot, were striking ; and it is probable that had he 
paid sufficient attention to them, the attack might have been inter- 
cepted. They were, however, such as to lead him to apprehend a 
rheumatic attack ; although he had never before suffered from 
rheumatism. Next the blood letting was probably injurious; vene- 
section is generally injurious in cases of spasm; (except of course 
where the spasm is manifestly entonic). If instead of the venesec- 
tion, tartar emetic had been given, alone, (or still better united with 
opium,) the probability of relief would have been much greater. 
The nausea or vomiting caused by the antimony, from the relaxa- 
tion of the system which it produces, would have tended to relieve 
the spasms, and have prepared the way for the exhibition of opium. 
Nauseating medicines, particularly antimony and ipecac, are the 
best we have for overcoming spasm. The narcotics must be given 
in too powerful doses, and are uncertain in any dose. The opiates 
given in this case produced great heat and excitement, and ren- 
dered the sufferings of the patient more intolerable. Combined 
with antimony they might have been more successful. The next 
observation may be considered a trifling one; it is believed, how- 
ever, to have more importance than will readily be accorded to it. 
It is simply with regard to position in the case of spasm. If the 
limb be kept in the extended or straight position, resting on the 
heel, there can be nothing more favourable for the production and 
continuance of spasm. Practitioners are apt to be deterred by the 
idea, that the spasms render it impossible to flex the limb ; but if it 
were even forcibly done, the spasms would, in many probably in 
most cases, subside. In the present case the limb was kept ex- 
tended from the 14th to the 17th, but as soon as the patient, when 
placed in the bath, either from accidental change of position, or 
from the relief of the spasm afforded by the bath, found his limb 
slightly flexed, the relief was so great that he had the greatest 
horror afterwards of straightening his limb, and particularly of 
allowing it to rest extended on the heel. If this position was acci- 
dentally taken for a moment, the spasms instantly returned. (When 
a horse harnessed in a chaise is hitched by the long reins, it will 
prevent his going forward, but if he runs back the reins soon begin 
to pull him, and the farther he goes back the harder the reins pull 
him back. The only way to relieve him, is to seize him by the 
head and carry him forward in despite of the opposition of the 
reins. The moment he starts forward they are loosened. It is the 
same thinof with the cords in spasms of the limb. They forcibly 
extend the limbs, but the moment the latter are flexed their tension 
ceases.) 

Another thing worthy of remark in this case, is the affection of 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 65 

the chestj which preceded the attack, and which disappeared on 
the day when the foot first became affected. A case which occur- 
red in the same manner, and pursued a similar course, will be given 
next. 

Case II. This was the case of a physician. After undergoing a 
great deal of fatigue and anxiety in a season when the weather 
was extremely cold, partly on account of the severe illness of some 
of his own family, he was attacked in the evening with severe 
pain in the left side of the thorax, oppression, &c. He was purged 
and blistered. The severity of the symptoms subsided, and on the 
third day, he was nearly free from apparent disease. Immediately 
after, however, violent pains came on in the limbs, and with the 
exception of the spasms, the disease pursued a course parallel with 
that in the case just described. The principal thing to be remarked 
is, that as soon as the pain subsided, he was allowed a meat diet 
and tonics. He had a relapse, was much worse than before, and 
his convalescence was slow and lingering. 

Synovial Rheumatism. This, as has been before remarked, 
was first pointed out by Dr. Chambers, of St. George's Hospital, as 
a distinct form of rheumatism. It differs in many respects from 
the disease which we have just described. It is a more strictly 
local complaint. The fever that attends it is not hy any means so 
severe, though in the most acute cases it is considerable. In the 
severest cases, it is attended with redness, but in general there is 
no discolouration. It is confined, as its name imports, to the syno- 
vial membranes lining the joints. The parts principally attacked 
are the joints of the fingers and toes, but it displays itself most dis- 
tinctly in the knee joint. From its attacking the smaller joints, 
and from other points of resemblance, it has been called rheumatic 
gout. 

It commences with a dull aching pain, and stifl^ness of the joints. 
After a time, it becomes more acute or burning, and in a space of 
from one to several days the parts begin to swell. This swelling 
is bound down by the synovial membrane, and is confined to the 
immediate vicinity of the joint, the membrane yielding in particular 
points, and giving an unequal and peculiar appearance to the 
swelling. Sometimes the joint becomes enlarged to double or treble 
the natural size. The swelling is fluctuating and is evidently be- 
neath the capsular ligament; whilst that of acute rheumatism is 
more superficial, and is seated principally in the cellular membrane; 
it does not fluctuate, but often pits, as is the case in oedema. Syno- 
vial rheumatism aflTects several joints at once, but it has not the 
disposition to metastasis or migration, that characterises the acute, 
It has a tendency to fix itself in a limited number of joints, and be- 
come completely local ; finally producing, at least after repeated 
attacks, change of structure, and sometimes suppuration and dis- 
organisation. In general, the principal eflfect seems to be, an in- 
crease of the synovial secretion. Every successive attack leaves 



66 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

more traces, the joints are left evidently swollen, the lis^anients be- 
come stretched, the bones altered in their relative sitnations, and 
distortion takes place. The synovia is sometimes permanently in- 
creased. It is sometimes absorbed, and leaves a thickening of the 
cartilage. The membrane is left covered with white spots as if 
sprinkled with a powder. This is found to consist of the carbonate 
of lime, or liihate of soda. 

The functions of the large intestines are not so much disturbed 
as in acute rheumatism. The perspiration and the urine are more 
altered tlian any other of the secretions. Lithate of soda is some- 
times found deposited on the skin. The urine is strongly charged 
with the lithates. 

Though the fever is sometimes violent at the onset, it subsides 
as soon as the effusion becomes considerable, i. e. within three or 
four days. According to Dr. Chambers, metastasis to the head is 
more frequent in this variety, while metastasis to the heart is more 
common in the other. Drs. Watson and Macleod, however, as 
has been shown, considered the former as generally connected with 
the latter. 

In the account of this variety, the writer has generally followed 
Dr. Hope. It must be mentioned, however, that the distinction is 
not generally recognised. The most severe cases of rheumatic 
fever, are in some cases, attended with affections of the synovial 
membranes. The two forms blend into each other and are found 
variously combined. 

Chronic Rheumatism. Chronic rheumatism differs from the 
acute by being less in degree. Dr. Gregory describes three varie- 
ties. The firsts subacute, is known by the pains shifting their 
situation as in the acute form, and by their being increased by 
warmth, especially in the night. The swelling is cedematous. 
The hips and joints of the lumbar vertebrae are most liable to it. 
It is accompanied with a white tongue, thirst, a quickened pulse, 
and a costive state of the bowels. 

The second form is marked by the absence of the constitutional 
symptoms. There may be a loss of tone in the vessels of the af- 
fected part. This form is not so common as the other, but some- 
times follows it. Stiffness of the joints is the most prominent 
symptom. Pain is not felt except on motion, or on changes of 
atmosphere. It is relieved rather than increased by X\\e warmth of 
the bed. The pain and stiffness do not shift. There is sponta- 
neous coldness and sometimes paralytic torpor. The pulse is sel- 
dom quick, or the tongue white. 

The third species is that described by Dr. Haygarth, under the 
name of nodosity of the joints. It is attended with permanent de- 
rangement of their structure. The ends of the bones, periosteum, 
and lio^aments, become thickened, and nodes form upon them, 
sometimes in such a manner as to distort the joint in the most un- 
sightly manner. The fingers are parts principally affected, but it 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 67 

occurs also in the knees and ankles. It is accompanied with pain 
of the joints, particularly severe at night. 

The fibrous membranes are the parts particularly attacked in 
chronic as well as in acute rheumatism, the periosteum in every 
part of its extent, the tendons, and tendinous sheaths of the mus- 
cles, the ligaments around the joints, the neurilema and investing 
membranes of the teeth, and the sclerotic coat of the eye.' 

Dr. Johnson has promulgated a theory, in which he does not 
seem to have been followed by other physicians, to wit ; that 
chronic and acute rheumatism should be considered as distinct dis- 
eases. They have, he says, no necessary connection, and are dif- 
ferent in their seat, their symptoms, and their cure. The seat of 
chronic rheumatism, he says, is in the muscular fibres or their in- 
vesting membranes, while the acute is in the white fibrous sub- 
stance. The acute disease is in the joints and their immediate 
neighbourhood, while the chronic is between the joints. Chronic 
rheumatism, not once in five hundred times, is preceded by the 
acute. The former does not aflEect the heart. For these and other 
causes. Dr. Johnson wishes to substitute the name arthritis for 
that of acute rheumatism, and confine the appellation rheumatism 
to the chronic form. 

In all this, Dr. Johnson does not seem to be governed by his 
usual good judgment or accuracy. It is matter of common noto- 
riety that those who have suffered from acute rheumatism, are fre- 
quently, perhaps generally, subject for years, if not for life, to occa- 
sional or constant rheumatic pains and soreness in the parts that 
have suffered most; and these pains are felt not in the muscles 
particularly, but precisely in the same situation in which the pains 
of acute rheumatism were seated. The heart affection which is 
the result of rheumatism is apt to become chronic. The rheuma- 
tic diathesis will undoubtedly in many cases show itself more 
slowly than in acute rheumatism, and assume the chronic form 
without being preceded by the acute ; but the two diseases are the 
same in essence, and proceed from the same causes acting under 
different circumstances, and with different degrees of concentration. 

Summary. If then it be asked, what on the whole are the con- 
clusions to be drawn with regard to the pathology of rheumatism? 
it may be answered: In the first place, rheumatism is an inflam- 
mation. In the second place, there is strong ground for considering 
it a specific one or one resulting from some peculiarity in the 
constitution exisling at the time. Thirdly this seems to consist in 
an altered state of the blood, which fluid is richer or contains more 
fibrine than natural. The writer has not entered particularly into 
the dispute which is now going on between M, Chomel and Bouil- 
laud, with regard to suppuration in acute rheumatism. It is ne- 
cessary for the substantiation of the theory of the latter, that 

' Dr. Gregory. 



fSm BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

rheumatic inflammation should suppurate and ulcerate, like simple 
inflamuiation ; couseqnoiitly his industry and ingenuity is tasked 
to prove that this is the case. The fact is, however, that it very 
rarely, if ever, suppurates. An inflanmiation, as has been said 
above, sometimes succeeds rheumatism, which produces suppura- 
tion in the joints, and this has given rise to the idea tliat rheuma- 
tism suppurates. Fourthly, Rheumatism is generally, if not always, 
confined to the white tibrous membranes, especially the tendons, 
and tendinous expansions. Wherever there is muscle, there is a 
white membrane forming a constituent part of it. As tliese mem- 
branes also pervade every part of the body, every part may be the 
seat of rheumatism. The pia mater, the pleura, pericardium, peri- 
toneum, cornea, conjunctiva, &,c. Fifthly, Pericarditis often pre- 
cedes, coexists with, or follows, acute rheumatism, either as the 
result of the diathesis that produces it, or as an effect of the disease 
itself; but there is no proof that the one is necessarily coexistent 
with the other, either as cause or effect. If we are always to infer 
the existence of pericarditis or endocarditis whenever we meet with 
rheumatism, the conclusion is, that the former is the cause of the 
latter. But in what way the disease of the heart and its envelopes 
can produce disease in the remote parts, does not appear very in- 
telligible. There seems to be no necessary cotmection between the 
two, such as to make it probable no mode by which the causation 
acts. If on the other hand, the heart affection be the effect, there 
appears to be no necessity for i(s being constant or general, any 
more than the affection of the pia mater, or cornea, should be con- 
stant or general. The erratic nature of rheumatism should lead us 
to expect that the parts attacked should be different in different 
cases. If rheumatism be altogether produced by an external cause, 
there is still less necessity for its attacking the internal organs. 
The conclusion is, therefore, that pericarditis or endocarditis, 
though frequently coexistent with rheumatism, is not necessarily 
either its cause or its result. 



. 



TREATMENT OF ACUTE RHEUMATISM. 

M. Bouillaud, who maintains the identity of rheumatism with 
inflammation in general, may be considered as the grand advocate 
for venesection. He practices blood-letting, three, four, five, and 
seven times, and sometimes eight times consecutively, and from 
sixteen to twenty ounces each time. Under this treatment the pa- 
tient is ordinarily cured in from fourteen to sixteen days ; whereas 
formerly it occupied five or six weeks. Dr. Johnson remarks that 
the accuracy of this statement must be doubted ; since it must 
require three or four weeks to correct the fibrinous condition of 
the blood. M. Bouillaud's method is as follows. 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 69 

' The patient on the evening of his admission into the hospital, 
(provided he be very strong and have a good constitution) is bled 
to sixteen ounces. From very plethoric patients twenty to twenty- 
four ounces are sometimes taken, but sixteen ounces is the common 
dose^ 

"Second day two bleedings from the arm, of from twelve to 
sixteen ounces each, and in the interval between them, leeching or 
cupping, (the latter by preference) to the extent of twelve, sixteen, 
or twenty ounces. The cupping glasses are applied around the 
affected joint or the precordial region, if as generally happens, the 
heart is implicated." 

" Third day one bleeding from the arm, and the abstraction of 
twelve to sixteen ounces of blood by cupping from the joints, or 
from the region of the heart." 

" Fourth day. The fever, pus, swelling, <fec. have sometimes 
completely subsided by this day, in which case the farther abstrac- 
tion of blood is not practised, but should they still exist, lie is once 
more to be bled to the extent of twelve or sixteen ounces." 

"Fifth day. Generally speaking the disease by the fifth day is 
in full progress towards resolution. Sometimes, however, the fever 
still continues well-marked, and in that case venesection to twelve 
ounces, or cupping to the extent formerly stated becomes advisa- 
ble." 

" From the sixth, seventh, or eighth day, the patient convalesces 
rapidly, and may now begin to take food." 

" Should a relapse take place, (which will sometimes happen, 
though not so often as after other methods of treatment,) bleeding 
may again be necessary. Thus in a case in which the disease had 
been cut short by four bleedings, the patient relapsed, and before 
recovery took place, it was found necessary to bleed him again 
five times." 

"Slight relapses may be treated by emollients, abstinence, baths, 
and anodynes, (fee. the disease wearing itself out in a few days." 

" To escape relapses, it is of paramount importance that patients 
|Tuard most carefully against the slightest breath of cold." 

It is remarkable that M. B. supports himself by the authority of 
Sydenham, who in his early practice bled every three days, but 
who subsequently, regrets that he bled so freely, and states that he 
had found a limited diet, merely, attended with as good effects, and 
free from the inconveniences attending his former method of treat- 
ment. 

Sydenham, in his chapter on rheumatism, gives the following as 
his method of treatment. As soon as called, he ordered ten ounces 
of blood to be taken from the arm. The next day he repeated the 
bleeding to the same quantity, and in a day or two after, according 
to the strength of the patient, bled again then interposing three or 
four days, as the strength, age, and other circumstances of the pa- 
tient indicated, he bled a fourth time. In his letter to Dr. Brady, 
at a subsequent period, he mentions that the bad consequences 



70 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

resulting from the loss of a large quantity of blood, by repeater 
bleeding, had induced him to search after some other method of 
curing the disease. Accordingly he found that a diet of whey, 
used instead o( bleeding, had the desired effect. In old persons, 
and such as have been long accustomed to too free use of wine 
and spirituous liquors, he considers such a diet unsafe. In this case, 
he says, it is highly proper to use nearly the same method of cure 
as before delivered, only he has found by experience that after the 
second, or at most the third bleeding, it is better to purge often, 
than to trust to bleeding only, by which means there is a place left 
for opiates, which otherwise must be refrained from. In his " pro- 
cessus integri," he says, " In young persons, and such as live tem- 
perately, and drink wine with moderation, the rheumatism may be 
as successfully cured, by a very cooling and moderately nourishing 
diet, as by repeated bleedings, which they cannot so well bear." In 
the case he gives of Mr. Malthus, the whey diet was continued 
eighteen days, after which it was gradually enlarged. 

One of the principal objections that has been made to venesec- 
tion, is the supposed danger of its producing metastasis to the heart. 
Dr. Alison, in the History of Medicine, in the Cyclop. Pract. Med., 
says, " he has no difficulty in stating his conviction that large and 
repeated bleedings increase the tendency to metastasis." But it is 
now becoming the general opinion that pericarditis or endocarditis 
is not the effect of metastasis. Dr. Macleod and Dr. Watson re- 
mark, that very young subjects, who are most liable to pericarditis, 
and in whom it most frequently occurs in connection with rheu- 
matism, are the most seldom bled ; and that venesection has been 
rarely practised in France, and was not performed on those subjects 
in whom M. Bouillaud found pericarditis and endocarditis to occur 
in so large a proportion of the cases. This seems to be a mistake 
of Dr. Macleod, for M. Bouillaud's subjects were bled, so that his 
reviewer in the Med. Chirurg., though a friend to M. Bouillaud's 
system, draws a directly opposite conclusion. The influence drawn 
by Dr. Macleod is, that the heart affection has occurred not in con- 
sequence of venesection, but from the neglect of it. It is also as- 
serted that the idea of metastasis being produced by venesection 
must have naturally arisen from the fact, that it is in the most 
severe cases that blood-letting is employed, and that it is of course 
in the most severe cases that the affection of the heart or pericar- 
ditis occurs. 

It may be conceded, that the danger of metastasis, as a conse- 
quence of blood-letting, is not so great as has been represented. 
The writer has seen it employed with the most positive benefit. In 
the case of a female of nervous disposition, who suffered extremely 
from acute rheumatism, he exhibited the common remedies, such 
as cathartics, &c. without relief. She could not bear opium. It 
produced vomiting, and increased the nervous sensations to the 
most extreme degree. About the third morning after the attack, 
the writer was sent for in haste. He found that the pain had left 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 71 

her limbs. She was now in the utmost agonies from a pain in her 
eyes and forehead, crying- out and begging in the most earnest 
manner for immediate reUef. She was immediately bled to about 
twelve ounces. The pain instantly ceased. From this time she 
was free from pain, and in a few days was able to go about her 
house, and attend to her usual concerns. This case and some 
similar ones, has led him to doubt, whether it be not better as a 
general rule, to delay bleeding, and keep it in reserve for such 
cases as have been mentioned. It has been the rule generally acted 
upon, that in acute diseases, venesection if required, must be per- 
formed as near the onset of the disease as possible; but the au- 
thority of Louis has brought this principle into question. It also 
seems to be the general theory that rheumatism seldom or never 
occurs, except in the sanguineous and plethoric. In practice, how- 
ever, we find that those of spare and nervous habits, are nearly if 
not quite as often attacked and in these it is evident, venesection 
is much less proper, and in many cases is highly injurious. Where 
the patient suffers from spasm, or other strong nervous affections, 
blood-letting is improper, unless it can be proved that the nervous 
affection is the result of entony. In the very plethoric and sangui- 
neous, the disease may in some instances be cut short by free vene- 
section. The opinion of Dr. Barlow, that rheumatism is the result 
of plethora, has been already alluded to. 

Nothing can be more ridiculous than the attempt to lay down a 
general rule adapted to all cases. On the whole, therefore, the 
best rule, is to be guided by circumstances. "Nee deus intersit, 
nisi nodus vindice dignus." We should not employ a heroic 
remedy unless it is decidedly indicated. The plan of repeated and 
copious blood-lettings, notwithstanding the authority of Sydenham, 
does not appear worthy of imitation ; nor is it very intelligible, not- 
withstanding all that is said of the tolerance of bleeding in rheu- 
matism, how a copious venesection can leave a patient in a condi- 
tion to be benefited by another and equally copious one within 
two or three days. The pain in itself is depriving the patient of 
his strength as fast as possible. An attack of acute rheumatism, 
unaided by bleeding, will reduce him in a very short time, to the 
last degree of weakness and emaciation, and it may be very much 
doubled, whether weakness is not the best preparation for a transfer 
or migration of the disease, to the heart or brain ; whether the sys- 
tem is not in fact less able to resist such transfer in proportion to 
its want of strength. Although, therefore, we would not forbid 
bleeding in all cases, we should object to its employment as a gene- 
ral rule. We should say, cave ab venesectione. 

It must however be conceded, that the testimony of by far the 
greater number of the best writers, is in favour of at least one 
bleeding. Venesection is generally regarded the grand specific. 
For the neglect of it, we have, however, the names of Cullen, 
Fordyce, Heberden, Haygarth, Joseph Browne, Elliotson, Alison, 
Chomel, and Louis, <fec. (fcc. 



72 



BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 



There is another consideration with regard to hlood-letting. It 
will hardly he denied that the operations of nature are generally- 
sanatory. It is certainly hecomit^. more and more the custom t( 
trust the powers of the constitution, and to watch and aid the op( 
rations of nature, rather than interfere with them. We makej 
" natura duce," our motto, though we often forget it. But if w^ 
make it a rule to practise profuse blood-letting, or even to coi 
mence the attack upon the disease with copious venesections, W< 
take the case out of the hands of the vis medicatrix, and we are r( 
sponsible for the consequences. We ought, therefore, to be verj 
sure we are right, before we venture upon this course. Sydenhai 
also tells us, that a strict whey diet will cure young and temperate 
persons full as well, and without the bad consequences of venese< 
tion. It seems difficult to account for his having left his sanctioi 
upon the heroic use of the lancet. Perhaps, even he felt a linger- 
ing attachment to the practice he had for many years employee 
and advocated, and a degree of shame at confessing, even to him- 
self, that he had been wrong. It is probable that his practice was-j 
more essentially modified than his doctrines. With regard to hii 
remarks as to those accustomed to the too free use of wine oi 
spirits ; he undoubtedly referred to what are called good livers^ 
whose hearty diet renders them plethoric. Those whose constitiiJ 
tions have become debilitated by intemperance, it is well known, 
are the least able to bear venesection. It is singular that M. Bouil- 
laud remarks, that the cases of Sydenham were probably of lon| 
duration. Sydenham did not bleed in accordance with M. Boui' 
laud's formula. 

In cases where the heart or pericardium has become affected, il 
may be more necessary to bleed. Dr. Elliotson, and Dr. Alison,! 
however, advise local in preference to general bleedings. Herei 
too we must be guided by the nature of the case. The symptomSl 
may be so urgent as to render general blood-letting necessary. Th< 
abstraction of blood by leeches and cupping is slow, and consider* 
able time must elapse before they can be applied. The expens 
attending leeches is also a serious objection among poor patients. 
A lancet is always at hand, and instant relief may be given. Dr. 
Watson recommends the use of the lancet in conjunction wit! 
mercury. Dr. Seymour, says, he has never in one case omitte( 
venesection without finding cause to regret it. 

The next remedy we shall consider is antimony. Dr. Hay- 
garth was in the habit of giving antimonial powder, or tartarised-J 
antimony, in acute rheumatism, as a preliminary to bark. Emetics^ 
of any kind are probably useful in this disease, from their relaxin| 
the system generally, and promoting a tendency to perspiration. 
In cases where there is a disposition to spasm, there is no remedyj 
more likely to be beneficial. The success which has been founds! 
to attend the use of tartarised antimony, in pneumonia, might leadt 
us to the conclusion that the same benefit might result from its us< 
in rheumatism. The hea evacuation of the stomach at the onset 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 73 

of the disease, and the action of vomiting must be of advantage. 
Some cases were given in the Clinique Medicale of M. Bricheteau, 
1835, of the administration of this remedy, but it was employed in 
union with blood-letting. Pneumonia and acute rheumatism, he 
says, are the two phlegmasia3 which are the most benefited by the 
tartrate given in large doses. Scudamore says, that if the patient 
has been seized in consequence of exposure shortly after eating to 
excess, an emetic should not by any means be neglected. He em- 
ploys antimony afterwards in the dose of from one eighth of a grain 
to a grain, in combination with half a dram to a dram and a half 
of acetum colchici, carbonate of magnesia, carbonate of potass, sul- 
phate of magnesia, and lemon juice. 

Two successful cases have been given by a physician of Mont- 
pelier, who exhibited it in doses of a quarter of a grain, and in- 
creased it until nausea and diaphoresis were induced. 

A physician of experience informs this writer, that he is in the 
habit of giving antimony combined with laudanum in acute rheu- 
matism. Six grains of the tartrate of antimony are dissolved in 
eight ounces of water, with from a dram and a half to two drams 
of laudanum, and given in doses of a table-spoonful every two or 
three hours. As soon as the specific effects of the drug are pro- 
duced, the suffering of the patient is relieved. Certainly no medi- 
cine, unless it is mercury, seems to have the rationale more in its 
favour in this disease. Its power in pneumonia, also, should lead 
us to expect favourable results from it in rheumatism. Can any 
one be better calculated to allay the excitement, remove the rich- 
ness, or alter the too fibrinous nature of the blood, whichever may 
he supposed to be its condition ? Tf the blood is unaltered in rheu- 
matism, then there is still greater reason for the treatment found 
beneficial in pneumonia answering in this. 

Opium. Dr. Heberden speaks favourably of the use of opium 
uncombined, as a safe and effectual remedy for the purpose of miti- 
gating the pains, and procuring easy nights of sleep, and contri- 
buting to the cure of the disease by its calming as well as by its 
sudorific power. This practice which was formerly in vogue, had 
been pretty much abandoned, but has recently been revived among 
us, and found some warm advocates. 

Dr. Seymour, of St. George's Hospital, tells us that where the 
disease has continued long, and the patient's strength is much bro- 
ken, but where the redness, swelling, and pain, continue in an in- 
ferior degree, one grain of opium alone, given every four hours, 
will often operate like a charm. Its safety, he says, has been illus- 
trated by extensive experience in the course of the last eight years, 
while the calomel and opium treatment, though undoubtedly effec- 
tual, has the disadvantage of producing a sore mouth. In the 
second stage of the disease, opium is certainly more admissible 
than in the first. But it may well be asked, why give opium by 
14 c h d^ 



74 



BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 



itself, when we can avoid its well known evil consequences, by- 
combining antimony, calomel, or ipecacuanha with it? 

The use of opium, by itself, cannot certainly be employed npon 
rational principles. If rheumatism is an inflammation, is opium a 
proper remedy in inflammation ? On the contrary, it is considered 
improper and dangerous. On the other hand, if it be a disease sui 
generis ; if it depend upon plethora, will opium remove the redun- 
dant materials of the blood ; or if the blood is in any manner al- 
tered in quality, will opium restore it to its natural state? Is it not 
rather, (to borrow the strong though not over refined expression of 
one of our late physicians,) is it not locking up the d~l after he 
has got in ? Its employment, therefore, is altogether empirical. 
Nor does it appear that experience is in its favour. There is not 
sufiicient evidence recorded of its utility. On the other hand, there 
are many objections to its use. In the first place, opium interferes 
with the employment of other remedies. The suffering in acute 
rheumatism is very great, and requires a very large dose of opium 
to subdue it. In many cases it will not succeed, or its effect is 
only temporary ; and then it leaves the patient in a heated, excited, 
irritable state, in which his sufferings are tenfold what they would 
have been without it. It also produces obstinate costiveness to 
which there is already a great tendency in this disease. The evil 
of this, from its requiring powerful medicines to subdue it, is by no 
means slight, especially when the patient has been exhausted by 
pain and disease. The injurious effect of opium upon the stomach 
is well known ; and in the affection under consideration, it is par- 
ticularly important to preserve or restore the healthy state of this 
organ. If it be allowed also that the blood is altered, opium will 
interfere with its restoration to its natural state. 

These remarks, however, will be understood to refer to the use 
of opium nncombined, and as a means of subduing and smothering 
the disease. As an adjunct, and combined with antimony, calomel, 
or ipecacuanha, it loses its bad qualities, and forms a most useful 
remedy. 

Dover's Powder is an excellent preparation ; but it will be 
found better suited to chronic rheumatism, or to the acute after the 
violence of the disease has abated, than at the onset. 

Mercury, Calomel and Opium. The use of calomel has 
many advocates. 8cudamore recommended it combined with colo- 
cynth, for the purpose of " producing a more free excretion of bile 
than would be effected merely by the saline aperients. It also as- 
sists in reducing the inflammatory diathesis, and increases the ac- 
tion of the absorbent system." He gave from one to five grains. 
Corrosive sublimate has been sometimes employed, and with 
alleged success, in very small doses. Dr. Pittschaft employed the 
red precipitate in doses of from one eighth to one fourth part of a 
grain, twice a day, and if it irritated the alimentary canal, he com- 
bined opium with it. Dr. Hamilton seems to have been the first 



''ARHEN ON RHEUMATISM. 

who proposed the employment of calomel and opium. Since then, 
it has been employed by many physicians with success, and com- 
bines a greater amount of testimony in its favour than any other 
course, whether preceded or not by venesection. Dr. Chambers 
employed it with great success at St. George's Hospital, giving ten 
grains of calomel combined with two of opium, every night and 
morning, or every night, as the case appeared to require, until the 
mouth became affected. A number of cases, exemplifying this 
treatment, are contained in the 56th vol. of the London Medical 
and Physical Journal, and also several cases by Dr. Macleod, who 
was led to adopt the practice by witnessing the success of Dr. 
Chambers. When the mouth became affected, the disease was re- 
heved. Dr. Hope employs calomel and opium in the same manner, 
and gives colchicum at the same time. By this course he not only 
cures his patients, but enables them to resume their customary oc- 
cupations in a week ; a degree of success which no one else even 
M. Bouillaud ventures to boast of Dr. Watson speaksof tiie use 
of calomel and opium, as of the utmost importance in aid of the 
lancet, when the pericardium or heart is affected. Dr. Latham 
enforces the use of mercury, in still stronger terms, to arrest the 
deposition, and promote the absorption of lymph. Its efficacy he 
considers certain, when its specific impression is early produced, 
but it fails when this is not the case. It cannot be brought to affect 
the system too speedily. 

Colchicum. This remedy has enjoyed much favour in the 
disease of which we are treating. It has been greatly used, in 
both the acute and synovial forms ; but Drs. Macleod, Chambers, 
and others, think it principally useful in the synovial form^;. Dr. 
Hope speaks very favourably of it in both. He gives from seven to 
ten grains of calomel, with one grain and a half, to two grains of 
opium, at night, succeeded the next morning by a full draught of 
senna. Then he gives the following, three times a day. 

R. Vini colchici. m. xv. ad xx. 
Pulv. Dover, gr. v. 
Mist, salin. 3x. 
Syrup, ^i. M. 

As soon as the mouth becomes sore, the calomel is stopped, but 
the opium is continued for several days. When the patient suffers 
much, it is sometimes given once in the middle of the day. By 
this method the patient is generally cured, and enabled to resume 
his usual occupations at tlie end of the week. A case of longer du- 
ration Dr. Hope considers an exception. The principal objection 
to this is that it promises too much. If, however, a patient may 
be cured in this manner in one week, while the shortest method ad- 
vocated by others does not profess in less than a fortnight, as a 
general rule, and the average duration of rheumatism is fixed at 
from twentv to fortv days, it certainly ought to have the palm 



76 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

assigned to it, over every other method. Notwithstanding, how- 
ever, the apparent extravagance of its pretensions, Dr. Hope's 
name gives it weight and authority. 

Mr. Tweedie, in a letter published in the London Medical Ga- 
zette, in 1831, states, that in consequence of the uncertainty of 
strength, in the preparations of the wine of colchicum, Dr. Addi- 
son had adopted at Guy's the plan employed at the Mass. General 
Hospital, of giving colchicum in substance. He administered it in 
doses of four grains every four hours, six grains every six hours, 
&c. each dose combined with twenty or thirty grains of Epsom 
salts. Mr. Tweedie considers that the trials made at Guy's prove 
colchicum to be the best remedy in rheumatism. 

Dr. Graves explains the beneficial action of colchicum as depen- 
dent upon its peculiar power of preventing the formation of the 
lithates, which, he says, abound in the urine of rheumatic patients. 
As soon as the exhibition of colchicum is commenced, the patient 
begins to amend, and the quantity of the lithates found in the 
urine to decrease daily, while the medicine is continued. 

GuAiACUM. One of the most recent testimonials in favour of this 
medicine is that of Dr. Seymour, published in the October number 
of the Med. Chirurg. Review. Next to blood-letting and purging, 
it is the remedy he chiefly relies upon. He attributes its good efl^ects 
not to its stimulant powers, but to its action as an evacuant, pro- 
voking purging, perspiration, and a flow of urine, in a very violent 
degree. When its purgative action is too great, he gives one grain 
of opium at bed time to check it. M. Alies, of Coulombier, in a 
paper read to the Royal Academy, some years ago, gave an account 
of twenty-one cases cured by guaiacum, to which he attributes spe- 
cific powers, similar to those of cinchona in intermittents, or mer- 
cury in syphilis. Ten ounces of the wood were added to three 
quarts of water, which were boiled down to one quart. One sixth 
of this quantity was given three times a day. In one case the 
treatment was continued for twelve days, during which time the 
patient took five pounds. 

Camphor. This seems to have been first employed in rheuma- 
tism by Dr. Amable Chere, at Chalons sur Saone. M. Dupas- 
quier, in a long article on rheumatism, in the Revue Medicale, 
May, 1826, describes it as a remedy almost sure to stop the progress 
of the disease. It may be given in substance, but is more effectual 
when applied in the form of vapour. M. Dupasquier thinks it de- 
stroys the inflammatory action, by producing a powerful revulsion ; 
that is by inducing perspiration, and afterwards by its absorption 
through the skin and pulmonary organs, by acting on the general 
and first cause of the disease as a sedative. The patients were 
placed in a kind of box invented for the purpose. When this could 
not be obtained, they were seated in a chair, over a small furnace, 
with a blanket thrown over them, reaching to the ground, and 



1 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 



77 



drawn close around the neck. A teaspoonful of camphor is then 
to be thrown every five minutes on a metal plate, covering the fur- 
nace. It rapidly volatilises, and speedily covers with sweat every 
part of the body, with which it comes in contact. When the bath 
is over, the patient is to be wrapped in a blanket. Half an ounce 
of camphor is enough for a bath. The number of fumigations 
must depend upon the strength of the patient. When he is strong 
and has much suffering they are repeated three or four times a day. 
Some mild diaphoretic drink is to be given during the fumigation. 
When the patient cannot be taken out of bed, the bed clothes may 
be raised up by hoops, or other contrivances, and the camphor 
volatilised by means of a warming pan, moved up and down the 
bed. The fumigations must be continued a week after the pains 
have subsided. A notice of the recent employment of camphor, in 
the manner proposed above, is contained in one of the late Euro- 
pean journals. 

It is obvious that it must be a great objection to any remedy that 
it requires the patient to be removed from bed, as motion increases 
his sufferings in a great degree ; and in the violent stage of the 
disorder, it will be impossible for him to sit up. If therefore the 
camphor vapour can be introduced into the bed, either in a warm- 
ing pan as above mentioned, or by means of the hoops and pipes 
employed for giving a common vapour bath to a patient in bed, its 
use will be much facilitated. There does not seem to be any dan- 
ger in the employment of this remedy, and as, when the patient is 
in extreme suffering, the attendants must be doing something, or 
have the appearance of doing something for his relief, there can be 
no harm in giving it a fair trial. 

Acetate op Ammonia. This remedy is employed by M. Ma- 
gendie, in consequence of its possessing the power of attenuating 
fluids in a great degree. By producing this effect upon inspissated 
blood, M. Magendie hopes to attenuate the particles of the stagnant 
blood to such a degree that they will no longer be retarded from 
entering and passing through the minute vessels. 

Cinchona. It is one of the most singular facts in medicine, 
that opposite remedies in the hands of different practitioners, and 
eminent ones too, often seem to succeed, and equally well in the 
same disease. There is some principle in the economy by which 
this phenomenon takes place, which has never yet been accounted 
for. Thus we cure gonorrhoea rationally by a strict antiphlo- 
gistic course ; we cure it often empirically in less time by a stim- 
ulant one. On the onset of a cold or catarrh, we can often cure it 
immediately by the empirical process of giving stimulants. We 
can cure it rationally, and with more safety, though somewhat 
more slowly, by a strict antiphlogistic course withholding liquids, 
and confining the patient to a very spare diet. If the simile were 
not too humble, we should be tempted to compare the morbid 



78 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

action, or the morbid matter, whichever it is, that the system has to 
get rid of to a pot of liquor boiling over a fire. If we add more 
fuel, the pot will boil over, and we shall get rid of the scum in that 
way, though at the risk of considerable loss and damage. On the 
other hand, if we go carefully to work and skim it off, it will be a 
much slower process, but a much safer one. 

The bark seems to have been first employed by Dr. Morton. Sir 
Edward Hulse, Dr. Hugh Smith, Dr. Fothergill, Dr. Geo. Fordyce, 
Dr. Haygarth, and Dr. Swediaur, were among its most eminent 
supporters. The principal object of Dr. Haygarth's work on rheu- 
matism, and nodosity of the joints, appears to have been to bring 
the bark into favour. In 121 cases the bark failed only in four. 
And Dr. H. concludes that acute rheumatism is cured by bark 
with more certainty and speed than the ague. 

Dr. Good attempts to reconcile the effects produced by opposite 
remedies, by attributing the success of bark to the residence of the 
patients in low swampy ground, or to their being of weak and irri- 
table habits ; but he allows that this does not explain the general 
and indiscriminate success, which seems to have attended its use. 

Iodine has been employed with alleged success in acute rheu- 
matism by Dr. Clendenning, and Dr. Elliotson, at the New Lon- 
don Hospital, Dr. Roe, at Westminster, and Dr. Williams at St. 
Thomas's. Dr. Graves has employed the hydriodate of potass, 
which has been used also by Dr. Elliotson, in doses of two and a 
half grains, three times a day in sohuion. It is probable that as 
iodine becomes stripped of its pretended and extravagant powers, 
and sinks down into an ordinary member of the PharmacopcEia, 
it may be successfully employed as an alterative, in the same man- 
ner with antimony or mercury, in this and other diseases. 

Artichoke. In the eighth volume of the Boston Medical and 
Surgical Journal, will be found an article copied from the London 
Medical Gazette, on the use of the common artichoke, (cynara soly- 
mus) in both the acute and chronic form of this disease. Pour 
cases of the former and two of the latter are given, all of which 
were cured by this remedy. As the medicines already in our Phar- 
macopoeia, used in rheumatism, are sufficiently numerous, it is 
hardly necessary to do more than refer those interested in the mat- 
ter to the paper itself 

Aconite. A paper was published in the GazetteMed.de Paris, 
in 1834, giving an account of six cases, in which this remedy was 
employed with speedy success. It was given in the dose of half a 
grain of the alcoholic extract, three times a day. Where opium does 
not agr>e with the system, our invention will be taxed to find other 
narcotic remedies for the relief of the pain. The uncertainty of 
this remedy is the greatest objection to its use. An instance of 
this may be found in the second of the cases referred to. One 



WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 79 

grain was prescribed to be taken four times a day eight grains 
were inadvertently taken at once, and no unpleasant effect ensued. 
Half a grain will act more powerfully on some persons, ;han five 
grains upon others. 

External and Topical Applications. These are princi- 
pally beneficial in chronic or synovial rheumatism. The warm 
bath, vapour bath, sulphur and camphor baths, which last has been 
already sufficiently discussed, are the chief that are recommended 
in the acute disease. To imitate the douche baths, at Aix les Bains, 
the following method has been devised by a London physician. 
He says, I set my rheumatic patient in a chair, at the side of which 
is placed a large vessel capable of containing three or four gallons 
of boiling water, and envelope patient and all with a blanket 
pinned close round his neck. In a few minutes he is bathed in a 
copious perspiration, and in this state he is directed to apply per- 
cussion to the pained joints by means of an elastic ball made of 
cork, covered with kid leather, and fixed on a handle of cane or 
whalebone about a foot in length. 1 have seen the most decided 
benefit follow this practice ; and in one case of seven years' stand- 
ing, after the daily employment of this dry douching, my patient 
was beaten into excellent health, and threw aside a crutch which 
he had long used." Dr. Johnson speaks of the warm bath as dan- 
gerous, excepting where metastasis has taken place from the ex- 
tremities to an internal organ. The same remark would probably 
apply as forcibly to the others. How far there may be danger of 
their producing metastasis at tfie onset of the disease, the writer is 
not prepared to say, but as their tendency is to throw the action 
outward from the internal oro^ans to the skin, it does not appear 
that there is this danger. The trouble and fatigue to the patient 
is a serious objection to the warm bath : the others it would seem 
might afford great relief by promoting healthy instead of diseased 
perspirations. At any rale they may be emploj^ed with safety and 
advantage, when the fever has begun to subside. The sulphur 
bath is of known and well tried efficacy, especially in chronic rheu- 
matism ; but its unpleasantness is a great objection to its use. It 
would undoubtedly be employed much more frequently, if it were 
possible to induce patients to use it: and it is hardly possible to 
have it in a private house. The camphor bath or fumigation has 
not yet been sufficiently tried, to demonstrate its utility; but it 
seems to be well deserving of trial, if only on the ground above 
mentioned, to fill up time. 

Blisters and Sinapisms. The relief afforded by blisters, in 
the case that has been detailed, was so great, that the writer has 
always been in the habit of employing them or sinapisms, and 
always with apparent benefit. The sinapisms were less eflectual 
in the relief of pain ; but they may be employed sometimes where 
blisters cannot. As these applications draw the action towards the 



do BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

surface, thy certainly have more tendency to fix the disease than 
to drive it to another part. Blisters are employed in erratic erysi- 
pelas to fix the complaint ; they can hardly therefore promote me- 
tastasis. Instead of their adding to the suflfering, they are actually 
the most pleasant remedies possible, from the relief they afford. 
Where the pain, however, is not felt, while the parts are kept per- 
fectly at rest, there is not the same reason for their use. In cases 
of rheumatic pains in the lumbar region, the writer has seen a 
sinapism act like a charm in removing the complaint. 

Veratria. Rheumatism is one of the diseases in which this 
remedy is recommended by Dr. Turnbull. He employs it only 
externally, in an ointment composed of ten grains to the ounce, 
rubbed upon the joints in the decline of acute rheumatism, after 
the active symptoms have abated, and in chronic rheumatism. 

Leeches and Cupping are undoubtedly among the most im- 
portant of local measures. Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Alison, and others, 
who disapprove of venesection, make them the principal remedy in 
the heart affection. 

Endermic Applications. The acetate of morphia has been 
used of late, externally, by M. Brachet, of Lyons, and other physi- 
cians, English and Continental, for the cure of this disease. A 
small blister is drawn as near as possible to the part affected, and 
one half to one grain of the acetate applird to the denuded surface. 
In one instance, the writer has known this method employed with 
great relief. It produced at first extreme pain, as the application of 
laudanum does to a denuded or delicate surface, but in half an hour 
the pain in the joint was entirely removed. It is obvious, however, 
that this is better suited to chronic rheumatism, or to acute rheu- 
matism after the fever has subsided. Such a remedy may relieve 
a part from pain, but cannot subdue the constitutional aflfection. 

Setons. Some cases, illustrative of the value of setons, em- 
ployed even in the most acute cases of rheumatic affections of the 
heart, are given in the Addenbroke Hospital Report, in the last 
July number of the Medico-Chirurgical Review. In chronic cases 
their benefit is well known. It is doubtful whether they can be as 
useful in acute cases as blisters ; but where any thing prevents the 
application of a blister, and in chronic cases, they maybe employed 
with much advantage. 

A simple application, but one that will sometimes afford great 
relief to the swelled and painful joints, especially after the fever 
has diminished, is a bath or wash of warm water and soap. " It 
is only weak minds that slight things because they are common 
and simple." ^ 

' Sydenham. 




WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 81 

Acupuncture. The same number of the Revue Medicale that 
contains the article on the use of camphor above referred to, con- 
tains the account of a case of rheumatism of the heart, cured by- 
acupuncture, by M. Peyron. A young lady, aged 18, of a good 
constitution and nervous temperament, after having lived for seve- 
ral years in a damp liouse, was attacked with rheumatism of the 
legs and arms. After leaving the house this was relieved, but she 
soon began to be seized with acute pains in the heart, palpitations 
and delirious loquacity, the attacks lasting from a quarter of an 
hour to three hours and more. M. Peyron found the pulsations of 
the heart very violent and distinctly audible at the upper and 
back part of the side of the chest, and even of the right ; impulsion 
of the ventricle to that of the auricle, as one to five eighths, pulse 
quick and intermitting. A needle thirteen lines in length was in- 
troduced without however touching the heart. This was followed 
by a paroxysm attended with spasms and partial delirium. A needle 
fifteen lines in length was then used with more powerful effect. A 
needle eighteen lines long was next passed from the upper border 
of the cartilage of the sixth rib through the pericardium until the 
point entered ihe heart. No bad result ensued, the pain was re- 
lieved and did not return. 

Dr. Elliotson, the grand experimenter with new remedies, gave 
this a fair trial at St. Thomas's Hospital, and in private practice. He 
found it chieiiy useful in rheumatism of the fleshy parts ; and the 
more so in proportion as the disease was less inflammatory. One 
needle left an hour or two in the part, he found more beneficial, 
than several used for a few minutes only. Acupuncture, if useful 
at all, must be chiefly so in chronic rheumatism. With regard to 
its application in the cardiac affection, one would hardly wish to 
imitate the practice of M. Peyron. 

Abstinence. There is no disease in which a strictly regulated 
diet is of more importance than in this. None in which any varia- 
tion or indulgence is more sure to produce a relapse. During the 
violence of the fever and pain, indeed, there is little danger that the 
patient will exceed, though even here there is need of great cau- 
tion ; but as soon as he is free from suffering, his appetite must be 
cautiously guarded. A diet of whey, according to Sydenham, is a 
sufficient cure for this disorder. If it were not for the prejudices 
of the vulgar, he says, this diet might be suited to other diseases. 
This remark is as true now as it was when Sydenham made it, 
and we seem to be getting every day more to act in accordance 
with it, employing a low "diet, in place of blood-letting and purga- 
gives. A low diet, the writer is convinced, ought to be employed 
in most cases of chronic rheumatism, but in the acute disease it is 
indispensable. Still more necessary, if possible, is it when the 
acute affection is attended with pericarditis ; and it is most pro- 
bable that if an antiphlogistic diet were carefully persevered in. 



82 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

subsequent to the cure, organic lesions of the heart would be much 
less frequent as the sequelae of rheutnatisin or pericarditis. 

From what has been said it will be seen that the writer is not 
inchned to recommend blood-letting as a general rule, a sine qua 
non, althoijtrh he confesses that the majority of the best European 
writers, even those most opposed to the sanguinary system of M. 
Bouillaud, maintain the necessity of at least one bleeding at the 
onset. In this he has the support of M. Louis, and, as he believes, 
of our principal physicians. At the same time, there are cases in 
which venesection is undoubtedly of service, especially after the 
disease lias seized upon an important or delicate organ. 

The grand imperfection of all medical treatises, especially with 
regard to treatment, is that the writers are obliged to lay down 
general rules, which the inexperienced reader would naturally ap- 
ply to all cases ; whereas no two cases, perhaps, will ever allow of 
precisely the same treatment. It is well, therefore, that we have 
such a variety of therapeutical means within our reach as we have 
iti this disease. And here another suggestion occurs. When so 
many articles of the Materia Medica have their advocates in any 
particular disease, the common conclusion is that they all fail, and 
the disease is designated as the opprob'mm medicince. But may 
we not fairly draw another inference to wit, that where so many 
means have been accidentally or otherwise resorted to, each finds 
too many advocates, and none is employed so generally or with 
sufficient patience to enable it to acquire the preference ? The wri- 
ter is hardly willing as yet to allow to rheumatism the title of a 
self-limited disease. He is unwilling to believe that it cannot be 
cut short by judicious management at the onset. 

As a substitute for venesection, and as a medicine well calculated 
to answer the indications, he would give tartar emetic at the onset, 
in the same manner as in pneumonia. In the most violent attacks, 
attended with pericarditis, he would resort to venesection. This 
is a remedy he would always have in reserve, to be employed when 
decidedly indicated ; but in milder cases of the heart affection, he 
would trust to the antimony and to local depletion, especially by 
leeches succeeded by a blister or a seton, and in some cases the 
antimonial ointment. In cases where there is any objection to the 
use of tartar emetic, the calomel and opium plan should be pre- 
ferred, combining antimony with the pills, or not, according to cir- 
cumstances. If antimony is employed at first, a pill of antimony 
and opium may be given at bed time. After the antimony, or if 
the anti nony is not given, the colchicum may be employed, either 
as recommended by Dr. Hope, or in substance. The uncertainty 
with regard to the strength, must always be an objection to the wine. 
If the suffering is severe when the parts are at rest, blisters and 
sinapisms may be applied to the affected regions successively. 
These are more important and useful in proportion as the disease 
is local and fixed. Blisters are more effectual, but their operation 
is slower^ and they are more troublesome afterwards. 






WARREN ON RHEUMATISM. 83 

In a disease where there is so much suffering, it is difficult to 
avoid doing more than is absolutely useful, and it is well to employ 
means which serve to fill up the time, and amuse the patient and 
his friends. For this purpose the vapour and camphor baths may 
be employed. After the violence of the disease has abated, and in 
proportion as it assumes a chronic form, such measures become 
more important. We cannot hope to accomplish much by local 
means, while the constitutional affection is at its height. 

Costiveness is always an attendant on rheumatism, and guaiacum 
given according to circumstances will be the best remedy to ob- 
viate it. 

With regard to diet enough has already been said. The most 
strict antiphlogistic diet must be maintained from the commence- 
ment of the attack, until the cure is completed, and the patient 
placed beyond the danger of a relapse. Unless this is strictly en- 
forced, medical treatment is of no avail, and it is not quite certain 
that this alone is not sufficient for the cure. 

Treatment of Synovial Rheumatism. In the synovial 
form the fever is generally less violent. The disease is more of a 
local one, than the acute fibrous rheumatisin. Here the colchicum 
is found more beneficial. Calomel and opium may be given until 
the mouth becomes slightly affected. Blisters, leeches, (fee. are here 
also more useful. The guaiacum may be employed as in the other. 
On the whole the synovial and fibrous forms run so much into 
each other, that it is difficult to make a practical distinction. The 
treatment must be adapted to the individual case. 

TreatmexXT of Chronic Rheumatism. With regard to the 
treatment of chronic rheumatism, we have not much to say. The 
local measures we have already described, are here pur principal 
therapeutical indications. Even here, a rigid diet is of importance; 
though it miist be regulated in accordance with the age, habit, atjd 
constitution of the patient. Chronic rheumatism is more of the 
nature of a chronic inflammation, and as such it should be treated. 
Leeches, cupping, blisters, sinapisms, setons, the warm bath, vapour, 
sulphur, and camphor baths are here most beneficial. Mezereou is 
considered useful. The compound decoction of sarsaparilla, which 
contains guaiacum and mezereou, is a good preparation. The 
calomel and opium pill may be given at night, taking care to dis- 
continue it as soon as the mouth becomes in the least affected. Ten 
or fifteen grains of Dover's powder may be given at bed time, as 
recommended by Ur. Gregory. Some cases can only be benefited 
by a change to a warmer climate, 

March, 1839. 



A DISSERTATION 

UPON THE QUESTION 

WHAT ARE THE CAUSES, SEAT, AND PROPER TREATMENT OF 
ERYSlPEIiATOUS INFIiAMMATION. (ERYTHEMA ERYSIPEIiA- 
TOSUM OP GOOD."} 



**Opinionum commenta delet dies, naturoe judicia confirinat.' 



It appears that this disorder has been known and described since 
the time of Hippocrates, from whom is derived the term erythema 
employed by Dr. Good. The words erysipelas and erythema, 
seem to have met with a singular fate in being employed differ- 
ently by most writers who have undertaken to treat of them ; while 
we find others who, dissatisfied with the vague manner in which 
these terms have been employed, give us cases of the same disorder, 
under the head of constitutional irritation, irritative fever, (fee. each 
writer classing a particular group of symptoms under a particular 
designation, according to his fancy. Thus, Mr. Lawrence under 
the head of erysipelas, includes the whole genus eryttiema of Dr. 
Good^ the inflammation of the cellular membrane, adipose mem- 
brane, (fee. On the other hand, some writers, as Mr. Liston, em- 
ploy the word erythema, to express simply an inflammation of the 
skin, or exanthematous flush, and apply the word erysipelas to the 
more serious affection, in which the cellular menbrane often be- 
comes involved. Others, as Mr. Earle, separate the inflammation 
of the cellular membrane from the inflammation of the skin ; 
whilst another class, among whom is Cullen, have brought in 
herpes under the designation erysipelas. 

It is not the intention, nor is it the province of the present writer, 
however, to discuss the nomenclature of the disease. Modern me- 
dical writers have been censured for their inclination to dispute 
about words to write treatises upon philosophy rather than medi- 
cine. It shall be my object to confine myself to erysipelatous in- 
flammation, or erythema erysipelatosum, and to the sense in which 
it is understood by Dr. Good. 



Ob BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

Unfortunately it is not merely in regard to the designation that 
writers disasfree. They differ equally in regard to the nature and 
treatment of the disease. We find one party maintaining warmly, 
that it is an inflammation, and is produced by the ordinary causes 
of inflammation, and must be treated by antiphlogistic remedies, 
while the opposite affirm as positively, that it is an asthenic disease, 
and must be universally treated with tonics. To this it is replied 
by others, that an asthenic inflammation is an impossibility a 
black swan. These two parties remind us very much of the con- 
tention of the two knights respecting the shield, one side of which 
was gold and the other silver. A third party are for having us 
attend to the symptoms of the individual case, the constitution of 
the patient, (fee. giving him support when he seems to require it, 
and using antiphlogistic remedies when the itiflammatory action 
requires it. Others remoi^.strate against this caution, affirming that 
the disease depends for its origin and support upon a morbid poison, 
and that in such a case it is not safe to be guided by symptoms. 
There may perhaps be found yet another class who think nature 
would do better, if left altogether, or nearly altogether, to herself: 
and that, in the present state of our knowledge of the complaint, 
the patient oftener recovers in spite of our remedies, rather than by 
their aid ; that it must go through its course, and that all attempts 
to cut it short are futile. 

It is indeed probable that there is not half the difference in prac- 
tice, that there is in theory, in this affection. Fortunately for the 
sick, the physician loses sight of his hypothesis at the bedside of his 
patient. There are certainly few practitioners who would give 
quinine to a person labouring under all the symptoms of active in- 
fiammation, with a quick full pulse and other marks of high fever. 
Nor can there be many who would resort to free venesection and 
other antiphlogistic remedies, when the patient is suffering from 
debility. A physician acquires by experience a sort of intuitive 
knowledge of what the state of his patient demands ; and he will 
prescribe correctly though his abstract reasoning may be false. In 
proof of this we find that there are no advocates of the antiphlo- 
gistic course, who do not allow that the necessity for tonics nmy 
sometimes exist; nor any or but few, who forbid the use of anti- 
ph logistics in all cases. 

In following the course I have prescribed to myself, of adhering 
strictly to the limits marked out by Dr. Good, it is necessary to 
reject much that Mr. Lawrence has included in his account of ery- 
sipelas. In his second class he has placed as synonymes, erysipelas 
phlegmonosum, the diflfu^se cellular inflammation of Earle, the in- 
flammation of the cellular tissue of Mr. Arnott, diffuse phlegmon 
of Dupuytren, and the pseudo-erysipelas of Rust. Of course much 
of the disease described by Dr. Butter under the head of irritative 
fever, many cases of which occurred after dissecting wounds by 
Dr. Craigie under that of adipose inflammation, and by Mr. Travers 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 87 

under that of constitutional irritation would be embraced within 
the same limits. 

Dnpnytren. however, shows a distinction between phlegmon 
diffus^ and erysipelas. He says, "although this malady (phlegmon 
ditfus) is very frequent and severe, it has been completely passed 
over in silence by most writers, confounded by others with its com- 
plications, and described by modern writers under the names of 
erysipelatous phlegmon, phlegmonous erysipelas, traumatic erysi- 
pelas." We understand him, therefore, to consider erysipelas as a 
complication of diffuse phlegmon. In Dr. Butter's cases erysipelas 
appeared in many, but it was as a "complication." In short, erysi- 
pelatous inflammation is frequently the attendant of cellular inflam- 
mation, but cellular inflanunation is not always erysipelatous. One 
of the most marked characteristics of erysipelatous inflammation, is 
that it commences in the skin, and extends inward, affecting the 
cellular membrane secondarily, and this even when the cause is 
internal. Hence Dr. Copland has drawn the distinction between 
erysipelatous inflammation and inflammation of tfie cellular mem- 
brane, that the latter has its origin in the cellular membrane, and 
the skin is secondarily affected. To this distinction I shall adhere, 
and hence irritative fever, diffuse phlegmon, diffuse cellular, or 
diffuse adipose inflatnmation, however near they may border upon 
my subject, or however frequently complicated by erysipelatous 
inflammation, will be out of the range of the present inquiry. 

As this is a subject upon which much novelty or originality can 
hardly be expected, it will be my aim to collect and compare the 
opinions of as many of the best authors, who have treated upon it, 
as are accessible. 

I propose, in the first place, to consider what erysipelatous in- 
flammation is, and as there exists so much confusion and disagree- 
ment in regard to it, to examine briefly the descriptions given of it 
by the most approved writers. 

Dr. Good makes the difference between erysipelas and erysipe- 
latous inflammation to consist in the one being a constitutional 
affection, accompanied with the latter as an exanthem, whilst the 
latter is the local or cutaneous affection, which accompanies the 
constitutional. He considers them both as diseases of weakness, 
requiring a tonic treatment. Although he has classed them under 
ditferent orders, he makes no other distinction than this, that the 
one is the local afl?*ection combined with the constitutional : the 
other is the local affection alone. For the rest Dr. Good follows 
J. Hunter, almost verbally, in his whole account of this inflamma- 
tion. The older writers, as Hippocrates and Galen, considered 
erysipelas as closely allied to phlegmon ; the latter making the 
principal difference to consist in an increased yellowness, which he 
attributes to the presence of bile. 

Sydenham describes erysipelatous fever, as attacking every part 
of the body, particularly the face, at all seasons, but particularly 
about the end of summer. The face becomes suddenlv swollen, 



88 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS.. 

red and painful, and the tumour is distinguished by small pimples, 
which upon the increase of the inflammation, sometimes become 
vesicles. Hence it spreads over the face and head, and the eyes 
are buried in the swelling. The symptoms resemble those pro- 
duced by the sting of bees, except in the presence of pustules. It 
is generally preceded by or attended with rigour, shivering, and 
subsequently thirst, restlessness, and other symptoms of fever, which 
appear as the disease advances. The fever first produces tlie pain, 
swelling, &c. (which increase from day to day, and sometimes ter- 
minate in gangrene) and these in their turn contribute to the in- 
crease of fever. 

Such is Sydenham's description, and I think it will be readily 
recognised as applying to the acute cases of erysipelas of the face, 
(fcc. which we often meet with as sporadic. They occur in dif- 
ferent parts of a town or village, like many other diseases not 
epidemic, appearing about the same time in different situations. In 
a majority of the cases that have come under the notice of this 
writer, they have been solitary and insulated, not going from one 
individual in the same house or family to another. Sydenham's 
method of treatment is generally successful. 

There is also, he says, another kind of eruption, though less fre- 
quent, which generally affects the breast, and fixing itself in some 
certain place rises very little if at all higher than the skin, and ap- 
pears like a broad spot, or a kind of branny scurf of a yellowish 
colour. In this species, Sydenham recommends the use of wine 
and flesh, and forbids antiphlogistic remedies. This is more nearly 
allied to the erysipelatous inflammation of John Hunter. 

John Hunter describes erysipelatous inflammation as arising 
spontaneously, in consequence of low or debilitating fever, some- 
times from accident when, however, it is secondary. It is com- 
monly cutaneous, but in some constitutions takes the place of every 
other inflammation in all parts. The extravasation is not so great 
as in the adhesive or oedematous inflammations, nor does the fluid 
extravasated produce adhesions ; it seems to support itself by sym- 
pathy, for it begins at a point and spreads itself to the adjacent sur- 
face, while the part first attacked is getting well. The part which 
has gone through the action either has its sympathy exhausted and 
becomes healthy, or the inflammation is such as to contaminate 
while it spreads. It sometimes begins round a wound on the scalp, 
and extends over the whole head and face, the eyelids being very 
much swelled, and the ears thickened. Thence it advances to the 
shoulders, body, and extremities, the part it leaves being cured, and 
the skin peeling off. The inflammation has a determinate edge, 
the skin feels a little thickened, and not so pliable as natural, colour 
a darkish red. It beo^ins with fever, lowness of spirits, loss of ap- 
petite, prostration of strena:th ; but it does not last long, and the 
inflammation spreads after the fever has subsided. 

Thus we find Mr. Hunter describes erysipelatous inflammation 
as attended with low and debilitating fever. He considers it. 



WARREN ON ERYS5IPELAT0US INFLAMMATION. 89 

therefore, as a disease of weakness, and directs the strength of the 
patient to be supported by tonics, as bark, ifec. 

Mr. Lawrence who describes erysipelatous inflammation under 
the head of erysipelas, follows Galen and Sydenham pretty closely. 
He argues that the disease in question is an inflammation ; it is 
therefore produced by the same causes, and demands the same 
treatment. It is merely a modification of cutaneous, or cutaneous 
and cellular inflammation. Erysipelas affects both the skin and 
cellular membrane ; and hence it is distinguished from the exan- 
themata which affect the skin only. Phlegmon has its original 
seat in the cellular membrane, and the skin is secondarily involved. 
It is a more violent inflammation than erysipelas, though slough-, 
ing is more frequent in the latter. The most striking and impor- 
tant distinction is, that the inflammation is confined to one spot in 
phlegmon and is distinctly circumscribed ; while in erysipelas it is 
diff*used and spreads without limit. Coagulating lymph is wanting 
in erysipelas in which the effusion is serous. 

Mr. Lawrence divides the affection into simple or true, oedema- 
tons and phlegmonous. 

M. Sanson, of Paris, proposes a new division of the varieties of 
erysipelas. The first is the same with that of Mr. Lawrence, pro- 
per erysipelas ; the second, lymphatic phlegmonous erysipelas ; and 
the third, venous phlegmonous erysipelas. As his descriptions are 
more minute and graphic than the others which have been given, 
I may be excused for quoting them, although at the hazard of being 
censured for repetition. 

In the first, M. Sanson says the inflammation does not extend 
beneath the skin, and is characterised by a stain of a red colour, 
more or less deep, like that of the lees of wine, irregularly circum- 
scribed, disappearing for an instant upon pressure, and giving a 
sensation to the finger of an elevation, varying in height and con- 
sistence, according to the region and the texture of the skin it 
occupies. When the latter is soft and fine, the tension which causes 
the elevation is not considerable, and is not very sensible; but if it 
arises in a part where the skin is hard and thick, less moveable, 
and fixed to the deep parts, by unyielding cellular membrane, it 
acquires considerable consistence and hardness. On the forehead 
and nose the erysipelas presents these characters ; on the thigh, 
the surface is rude, rough, raspish, and as it were dried up. Ex- 
amined with a glass, it is interspersed with a great number of little 
phlyctenas, which when broken discharge a fluid ofa yellow citrine 
colour, and semitransparent. This is the bullous, miliary, phlyc- 
tenoid erysipelas of writers. 

To these local characters, which are accompanied by a sense of 
weight, heat and pruritus in the part affected, general symptoms are 
almost always joined, either as causes or effects. Some of these 
precede erysipelas: pains in the epigastrium, nausea, and squea- 
mishness, bitter or clammy mouth in a word, all the symptoms of 
15 a hd 7 



90 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

foul stomach. Sometimes, on the other hand, they accompany or 
follow it, but they are generally unimportant. 

In other cases, whether it be that the inflammation is propagated 
from the cellular membrane to the skin, or from the skin to the 
cellular membrane, in persons whose skin is fine, white, and deli- 
cate, though not always lymphatic, erysipelas is formed in this 
manner. Under the influence of the causes that may produce it, 
we see upon the inner side of the limbs, over the course of the 
veins, small striae of a beautiful rose colour, undulated, parallel 
with each other, painful on pressure, and situate in the substance 
of the skin itself. They soon increase in volume, grow to half a 
line in diameter, anastomose, and thus form a network with 
larger meshes, which gradually become more numerous, narrower, 
and at last touch each other, and become confounded, forming a 
red plate or scale, which differs from proper erysipelas in its vivid- 
ness and colour. 

The skin becomes tense and smooth, and the limb augments 
very considerably in volume. The neighbouring ganglions are 
engorged, and become painful on the slightest pressure, the warmth 
is in general increased and becomes painful ; the pulse is quick, 
frequent, confined, and tense. The head is affected, and delirium 
comes on, characterised by violent agitation, and sometimes furious 
transports. 

In the great majority of cases this form of erysipelas, which M. 
Sanson calls lymphatic phlegmonous erysipelas, goes on rapidly, 
and terminates, in spite of all we can do to prevent it, in suppura- 
tion, and even in the complete destruction of the cellular mem- 
brane. M. Sanson has seen many cases of this kind, and mentions 
one in which the skin of the leg was entirely stripped of cellular 
membrane, and formed, as it were, a stocking to the subjacent 
parts. 

Lastly, in cases where it is seated in the skin, and in the sub- 
cutaneous cellular membrane, but in individuals whose skin is not 
much coloured, and very thick erysipelas shows itself with cha- 
racters diametrically opposite to those of the preceding species. 
The striae with which it commences, are violet, and sinuous not 
parallel, and form a tarnished rose colour, scaled like that of sim- 
ple erysipelas, but without the elevation that we have described in 
speaking of the latter. 

Upon this coloured ground, there soon appear scales, irregular 
in number and extent, brownish, violet, like the ecchymoses pro- 
duced by a contusion, not disappearing upon pressure by the fin- 
ger. There is enormous congestion in the subjacent cellular mem- 
brane, the skin is tumefied, hangs in folds, and, what is remarkable, 
the epidermis assumes a brilliant and resplendent aspect. 

The ganglions are not engorged, gangrene rarely commences in 
the subcutaneous cellular membrane, but in the skin, and begins 
constantly in the scales which have been described. When this is 



M 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 91 

not developed, we observe phlyctenae, more or less numerous, scat- 
tered over all the inflamed surface, and which are the commence- 
ment of the first degree of eschar that characterises gangrene. 

The general symptoms are not less different than the local ones. 
The skin of the rest of the body takes a livid earthy colour: the 
warmth is not much elevated with moisture. Pulse small, soft, 
depressible. Tongue dry, raspish, covered with fur. The patient 
is seized with extreme muscular weakness, and the least motion is 
an exertion. The prostration becomes more and more marked ; 
the faculties are obscured, and the patient soon falls into a deep 
stupor. Then delirium comes on, which is very different from 
that observed in lymphatic phlegmonous erysipelas ; it is vague, 
unquiet, without agitation, accompanied by dreams, broken by sud- 
den returns to consciousness and reason. 

U it is not arrested, and the symptoms increase, the venous 
branches inflame, and the inflammation proceeds to the large 
trunks. The most marked phlebitis is developed, and hastens to a 
fatal termination. If to signs so striking, there is also added erratic 
shivering, which precedes or accompanies this species of erysipelas, 
the different state of the blood drawn by general bleeding, metas- 
tatic abscesses, in fine evident inflammation of the internal coat of 
the veins, which are found on opening the body ; we cannot hesi- 
tate to place the point of departure and the seat of this form of 
erysipelas in the venous system. 

The first of these species is met with in persons of all ages and 
temperaments. The second, more particularly in children^ and 
in those adults whose skin is fine, white, and easily injected. The 
third is more comm^on in old men, and in those whose skin is thick, 
without colour, and whose veins are prominent. It never occurs 
in children. 

M. Blandin has published the results of his observations at the 
Hotel Dieu, for two years, and it must be allowed that this hospital 
furnishes a pretty fair field for the study of this affection. 

He says we must seek the nature of this disease in its cause. It 
may be internal, and then the malady exists in the economy before 
acting locally. It may be external ; the disease in this case, most 
frequently coming on in consequence of a contusion, a wound, or 
an operation. Here the aflfection is entirely local from its origin. 
This cause is readily appreciable ; the other is not. Erysipelas is 
often epidemic. But we find also, in the medical wards, isolated 
cases which are truly sporadic, and for which no special cause can 
be assigned. The course of these two species differs, owing to their 
etiological nature. That from a local, external, cause soon tends 
to become general. The fluids altered by it have a concentric 
course, are soon dispersed over the system, and excite violent re- 
action. 

When it arises from an internal cause, at first general, it tends to 
localise itself It is a critical effort of nature precipitated towards 



92 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

one point ; the perturbating element that carries the trouble into all 
the systems at once. 

It results from this theory, that the febrile action must predomi- 
nate at the beginning, where the cause is external. At the same 
time, we must allow that the latter having place almost always 
after wounds, contusions, ulcers, and operations, the traumatic 
fever will mask the erysipelatous. 

In regard to its anatomical nature, most writers call it cutitis ; 
but it is much more than cutitis. The element pre-existing, domi- 
nant, is a phlegmasia of the lymphatic radicles of the skin. 

M. Blandin quotes the observations of others in support of his 
opinion. M. Ribes, he says, supposed that there was something of 
a capillary nature in erysipelas. He found the internal tunic of 
the arteries and veins of the integuments inflamed, and that the 
disease attacks principally the small cutaneous veins, the small ar- 
teries being less affected. M. Blandin thinks he mistook the lym- 
phatics for veins. Dana found the greatest advantage in applying 
leeches to the lymphatic ganglions at the base of the jaw. Chomel 
says, that whenever an individual is taken with shiverings, nausea, 
horripilations, red lines under the skin, and pain in the submaxil- 
lary ganglions, he will have erysipelas of the head. Lymphitis 
not only predominates but pre-exists. In convalescents, there is an 
osdema which cannot be the result of venous or lymphatic inflam- 
mation, or an obliteration of the vessels that carry the lymph. 

There is then capillary lymphitis, and cutaneous inflammation, 
which is posterior to the first. 

But these two elements are not in equal proportion. In erysi- 
pelas arising from an internal cause, inflammation of the dermis 
preponderates : in traumatic erysipelas it is that of the white ves- 
sels. This makes the diflference in severity. The first is often 
produced by a miasm, which shakes the whole economy, but an 
erysipelas like that of the face exhausts the morbid cause. Those 
from an external cause, on the contrary, invade the system instead 
of leaving it ; and the lymphatic vessels carry into all the tissues, 
according to their course, the fluid altered by a violent phlegmasia, 
at first local and then becoming quite concentric. These, says M. 
Blandin, are positive facts, and how often do we see women in 
childbed succumb, under uterine, inguinal, and femoral lymphitis; 
described under the name oi phlegmasia alba dolens. Physicians 
consider erysipelas a trifling afl^air, surgeons, a serious one. Erysi- 
pelas from an internal cause is rarely ambulant. The other is so, 
and almost always extends concentrically towards the trunk. That 
of the trunk sometimes proceeds superiorly, at others inferiorly. 
The phlegmasia extends in the direction of the network of vessels, 
and we see the red lines before the appearance of the redness of 
the dermis and its tumefaction. 

There are. however, cases of erysipelas from an external cause, 
where it directs itself towards the extremities, as lymph does not 



I 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 93 

always proceed concentrically. The wards under M. Blandin's 
superintendence offer hardly an example of this. It is sometimes 
the same with phlebitis : but these are exceptions. 

Erysipelas is sometimes produced by a double cause, a local one 
acting externally, and a general one acting internally, at the same 
time, when the patient suffers both from the atmospheric constitu- 
tion, and from the absorption of matter into all the tissues. 

Dr. John Stevenson published in the second volume of the Edin- 
burgh Medico-Chirurgical Society's Transactions, for 1826, an ab- 
stract account of twenty-one cases of erysipelas of the head, in all 
of which there was a peculiar and severe affection of the throat, 
and which tend to prove the contagious nature of erysipelas. 

This affection of the throat occurred so frequently in persons 
who had been much with erysipelatous patients, that he came 
finally to the conclusion, " that it was erysipelas of the fauces 
spreading occasionally to the adjacent parts in different directions. 
The febrile symptoms by which it was ushered in, were generally 
severe, even in the milder cases ; very full and frequent pulse, 
severe pain of the head and back, restlessness and great heat of the 
surface. The period at which the affection of the throat came on 
varied from the second to the sixth day. It commonly began with 
a red or purplish blush, more or less extensive over the velum and 
uvula, accompanied with very little tumefaction, but with consi- 
derable difficulty in swallowing : often, after a few days, excoriation 
of the inflamed surface followed, with superficial ulceration, which 
at times soon healed, but at others spread and discharged a good 
deal of purulent matter. In many cases, the disease terminated 
without extending farther than the parts mentioned, but in a few, 
it spread to the larynx, producing a state of respiration very simi- 
lar to that of idiopathic croup; in others it extended to the pharynx 
and oesophagus. When the last became affected, fluids and even 
solids, could be partially swallowed without difficulty : but after a 
few seconds pain was felt in the course of the gullet, an inverted 
action began, and they were wholly or partially returned to the 
mouth. In some protracted cases, glandular swellings appeared in 
the neck which suppurated externally. This disease is readily 
distinguishable from cynanche tonsillaris, by the want of swelling, 
by the redness being more diffused, and by the pyrexia being gene- 
rally greater than could have been expected from the degree of 
local affection." It was distinguished from croup by the larynx 
being affected in only a small proportion of cases ; by the inflam- 
mation not commencing there, and by the age of the patients. It 
was distinguished from scarlet fever by the absence of cutaneous 
eruption, and by attacking persons who had already had that dis- 
ease. 

All of Dr. Stevenson's patients whose cases he has reported, with 
the exception of three, had been with others who had similar affec- 
tions, so that there was strong prima facie evidence of contagion. 
Ten of them had sore throat simply, without cutaneous affection. 



94 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

Dr. Stevenson and Mr. Arnott (London Medical and Physical 
Journal, vol. 57,) are the principal authors who have noticed ery- 
sipelatous inflammation of the throat. Mr. Arnott has given three 
cases which occurred in his practice, that of a father, mother, and 
daughter, in which there was similar evidence of contagion. It is 
upon a consideration of these cases in connection with those of Dr. 
Stevenson, some of Dr. Duncan and others, that Mr. Arnott wishes 
to confine the use of the word erysipelas to the affection of the 
head and throat merely, which he considers contagious. 

In the first of Mr. Arnott's cases. Mrs. M., there was pain and 
difficulty in swallowing, without perceptible redness, or swelling 
of the posterior fauces. She died, and the inflammation was found 
to have occupied a limited extent of the pharynx. There was a 
spot of mortification not much larger than a silver penny. The 
other two cases, Mr. Arnott believes to have owed their origin to 
the first. The second case was that of the husband of the pre- 
ceding. There was diffused redness all over the posterior fauces, 
which increased, and the next day a blush of redness with tume- 
faction of the upper eyelid was observed. On tlie next day erysi- 
pelas had developed itself in the eyelid and was extending to the 
cheek. He recovered. Miss M. was attacked July 22d, with fever 
and sore throat, after nursing her father. There was redness of 
the palate, uvula, and tonsils, with some swelling. The posterior 
surface of the pharynx was covered with a layer of yellow glairy 
mucus. On the 24th, vesicles appeared on the nose, and erysipe- 
latous redness on the cheek which extended over the whole head. 
She recovered. 

Three of the cases given by Dr. Duncan, Jr. (Edinburgh Med. 
and Surg. Journal, 1821,) were attended with inflammation of the 
throat. Mr. Travers has given one, and there are two in the Med. 
Chirurg. Review, for Oct., 1835. In several if not all of these 
cases, death appears to have been occasioned by suffocation. 

A very lucid account of the history and progress of erysipelatous 
inflammation, when epidemic, has been given by Dr. McDowell, 
as it occurred in the Dublin Hospitals in 1834. The disease was 
epidemic and very frequently fatal. It attacked all ages and both 
sexes indiscriminately, the healthy as well as the sick. Almost 
every kind of injury was followed by this aflTecticn. It occurred 
after leeching and bleeding, venereal ulcers, and even the applica- 
tion of liniments to the surface. Surgical operations were gene- 
rally succeeded by it. It was characterised by extreme prostration 
of strength. Dr. McDowel divides it into three classes. 

In the first, occurring in healthy persons, and usually after inju- 
ries, there was much local and constitutional disturbance. The 
disease was often phlegmonoid; but in other cases the skin only 
was acutely attacked. 

The second class occurred in persons of weak constitutions and 
(mhealthy habits, in whom the stomach and biliary organs were 
deranged. In these the constitutional symptoms seldom ran high. 



*" WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. ^^T 

In the third class, the subjects were persons whose constitutions 
were broken dov/n by habits of intemperance, want, ag^e, or or- 
ganic disease of long standing. In this class, there was less red- 
ness and heat of surface, pulse quick and weak, fever typhoid, 
tongue more or less coated, dry, and brown, or red, dry, and 
scabrous near the apex, with elongated papillae ; the rest of the 
surface much loaded. 

The fatal cases of this disease are generally those where the head 
and face have been affected, and where coma ensues before death. 
In these he found "much sanguineous congestion in the different 
tissues from the skin to the brain, serous infiltration of the loose 
cellular substance under the scalp, and sometimes sero-purulent 
fluid, white or milky appearance of this membrane between the 
convolutions of the brain, with abundant subarachnoid effusion 
into the cellular tissue of the pia mater, sinuses, cerebral veins; 
jugulars and right side of the heart much congested, cerebral sub- 
stance firmer or softer than natural, showing numerous bloody 
dots." 

"In most cases of protracted erysipelas, inflammation of different 
portions of the gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane was found, 
especially of the stomach, bowels, and bronchiae, the inflammation 
being most intense at the bifurcation of the trachea, with frothy 
sanguineous effusion into Ihe smaller ramifications. Gastritis was 
indicated by epigastric tenderness, vomiting, ardent thirst, loaded 
tongue, dry, red, and scabrous near the apex, rapid pulse, &c. the 
strength being very variable. Muco-enteritis was known by ab- 
dominal tenderness, of variable extent, tympanitic distention, 
diarrhoea, the pulse often but little disturbed, and the alvine dis- 
charges being mucous, gelatinous, with blood occasionally. When 
the disease spread to the large intestines, there were dysenteric 
symptoms." 

It will be seen that the cases which came under Dr. McDowel's 
notice were undoubtedly cases of erysipelatous inflammation, most 
of them occurring in consequence of some external injury. They 
were therefore proper surjjical cases, cases arising from an external 
exciting cause. Dr. Good has also placed the disease with which 
infants are affected in this species. Hence the erysipelas with 
which children are affected, as described by Dr. Dewees, is erysi- 
pelatous inflammation. That which occurs to certain individuals 
also upon slight injuries, as a prick of a pin, a burn, or an excoria- 
tion, is undoubtedly of this species. On the other hand, the acute 
cases, where the inflammation affects the face, for instance, without 
local injury, and with violent constitutional symptoms, is the erysi- 
pelatous fever of Sydenham; the erysipelas of Dr. Good. The in- 
flammatory affection of the throat also, noticed by Stevenson, 
Arnott, and others, when unattended with an eruption of the skin, 
if it is either, is erysipelatous inflammation. 

It seems evident, however, that there must be a mutation in these 
affections, that they must be convertible, if the cutaneous affection 



96 B0YLE8T0N PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

is the same in both, which no one appears absolutely to deny. 
Thus in the account given by Dr. McDougal, it occurred in some 
cases in healthy individuals, and not in consequence of injury of 
any kind. Here, therefore, there was medical and surgical erysi- 
pelas prevailing epidemically at the same time. In proportion as 
the attack was severe, and the constitutional affection violent, the 
case would be a medical one, while on the other hand, if the con- 
stitutional symptoms were slight, the inflammation would demand 
attention. The cases which came under the notice of Sir Astley 
Cooper, Arnott, Lawrence, Earle, Travers, Sanson, Blandin, &c. 
were unquestionably cases of erysipelatous inflammation. In com- 
ing to the subject of our inquiry, therefore, into the causes, seat,and 
treatment of erysipelatous inflammation, it may be diflicult entirely 
to separate the two affections, particularly in referring to other 
writers. I will premise that in erysipelatous fever a sthenic cha- 
racter, and in erysipelatous inflammation an asthenic character, 
will generally be found ; hence the remark of M. Blandin, that 
physicians think erysipelas a trifling affair, surgeons a serious one: 
the one most generally occurring in debilitated subjects, the other 
in the healthy. 

The case is very different when the patients are such as those 
described by Mr. Hutchinson (Surgical Observations,) robust, 
healthy, seamen, accustomed to live well. Here the sthenic will 
prevail. On the other hand, in the class described by Sir Astley 
Cooper, and of which the patients of most of the London Hospi- 
tals are perhaps composed a class taken from the poorer sort of 
people, who lived miserably, and many of whom are addicted to 
the intemperate use of ardent spirits, we may naturally expect the 
asthenic character to be common. 

According to Mr. Hutchinson, seamen are more subject to this 
disease than any other class of society, owing to their diet, the free 
use of strong liquors, and their exposure to sudden alterations of 
temperature, which affect the secretions of the cutis. In them it 
appears principally upon the lower extremities, probably owing to 
their being frequently wet, and to the friction of coarse clothes. 

Causes. Erysipelatous inflammation has the four principal 
characteristics of inflammation heat, pain, swelling, and redness. 
It is therefore properly an inflammation. It differs from adhesive 
inflammation, in the rapidity with which it spreads, like a drop of 
ink upon damp paper. A clear fluid is eff*used, which has not the 
property of forming adhesions, and hence its progress is not limited 
as in the adhesive inflammation where coagulating lymph is 
thrown out, and forms a barrier to the advance of the affection. 

Adhesive inflammation is that which arises in a healthy person 
in consequence of a wound, or other lesion m some part of the sys- 
tem. It is a healthy process arising in a healthy person, and de- 
signed to repair the lesion, by which it is excited. Erysipelatous 
inflammation is an inflammation modified by certain causes, either 



3 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 97 

in the part in which it occurs, in the subject in whom it arises, or 
in the season^ location^ or atmosphere^ in which it is generated. It 
is in other words an unhealthy and preternatural action, produced 
or perverted by a morbid cause. 

With regard to the part of the system in which it occurs, we 
have seen that it may, according to John Hunter, affect any part. 
It is true, it commences in the skin, but there is no proof or proba- 
bility that it arises from a cause applied externally, like psora or 
gonorrhoea. Healthy inflammation of the skin is of the adhesive 
kind. There is therefore nothing in its seat to account for its cha- 
racter. 

In regard to the subject of the affection the case is different. 
John Hunter, whose powers of observation render a hint from him 
worth volumes from others, informs us that there are some persons 
in whom every inflammation takes this form. We find, in fact, 
that there are many persons in whom it is constantly occurring in 
different parts ; and a person once affected, is, in general, more 
liable to a recurrence of the attack. Sometimes the hand or foot, 
sometimes the face, sometimes the genital organs, are affected, and 
each attack can be traced only to very slight causes, or to no cause 
whatsoever. There may therefore be considered to be in some 
persons a predisposition to erysipelas ; in some natural, in others 
acquired. 

This inflammation though most prevalent in summer, or accord- 
ing to Sir Astley Cooper, in spring and autumn, does occasionally 
arise in all seasons. 

In regard to location, the genuine soil of erysipelatous inflamma- 
tion, is a crowded, ill ventilated, hospital ; there it flourishes most 
luxuriantly in its worst forms. There it may be said to appear in 
its concentrated state, attacking persons of all ages and sexes, (as 
in the account given by Dr. McDovvel,) healthy and sick indis- 
criminately, coming on after injuries of any kind ; even the irrita- 
tion produced by adhesive plasters being a sufficient exciting cause. 

Mr. Abernethy considers this affection always the result of a dis- 
ordered state of the digestive organs. In this opinion he is so far 
supported by other writers, that they consider it a frequent cause, 
and generally attendant upon erysipelatous inflammation. 

Habits of intemperance are also a very frequent cause, producing 
a deranged state of the digestive organs, and a debilitated state of 
the system, with an unhealthy or vicious performance of all the 
functions. 

Desault attributed the erysipelatous inflammation consequent 
upon wounds of the head, to an affection of the liver, excited by 
those wounds. 

The above may be considered as the predisposing causes of 
erysipelatous inflammation. The principal exciting causes are 
wounds, or lesions of the skin. These have already been described 
in the extract given from Dr. McDowel's paper. 

It is however in individuals whose constitutions have been 



98 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

broken down by intemperance, long continned organic disease, old 
a^e, or other causes, that erysipelatous inflammation occurs more 
readily, and in its worst forms. In these cases it has more of an 
asthenic character. On the otlier hand, in proportion to the healthy 
state of the individual, and the soundness of his constitution, the 
characters of the disease will approach nearer to those of healthy, 
active inflammation. There are also idiosyncrasies rendering some 
individuals much more predisposed than others to the disease. 
There is a constitutional susceptibility or insusceptibility, such as 
we find in regard to cow-pox, small-pox, <fcc. In proportion to the 
violence of the epidemic, and to its concentration, will be its ten- 
dency to overcome a certain degree of constitutional insusceptibility. 
In proportion to the constitutional predisposition, on the other hand, 
other things being equal, or in other words, as the predisposition to 
the disease is greater, will the inflammation approach nearer to the 
worst form of erysipelatous inflammation. 

Dr. Williams (Elements of Medicine Morbid Poisons,) who is 
a thoroughgoing contagionist, allows that it may be determined 
with certainty whom erysipelas will attack, to wit the convales- 
cent from fever, the dropsical, the syphilitic, and the scrofulous. 

AVhere there is a strong predisposition to the disease or where it 
is purulent, the slightest injury is suflicient to produce it. Sir Ast- 
ley Cooper informs us that the surgeons of the English hospitals 
were formerly deterred from operating in the spring and autumn, 
because the irritation produced by the strap of adhesive plaster em- 
ployed to bring the edges of the wound in contact, occasioned erysi- 
pelatous inflannnation. 

Operations from the smallest to the most important cupping, 
leeching, venesection, a burn, or any excoriation of the skin, the 
})rick of a needle, the application of rubefacients or irritative plas- 
ters, in short the slightest irritation of the skin, will give rise to the 
disorder, under circumstances such as those described by Dr. 
McDowel, that is to say, in a crowded hospital, where erysipelas 
prevails. The same causes will excite it in any individual other- 
wise situated, who is strongly predisposed to erysipelatous inflam- 
mation. According to Dr. Johnson, the kind of erysipelas is modi- 
fied by the kind of wound. A mere prick or scratch is usually 
followed by cutaneous erysipelas, a deeper wound produces either 
diflfuse cellular inflammation, or erysipelas phlegmonoides, a lace- 
rated wound being more likely to produce it than a punctured 
wound, and a punctured wound more likely than a clean cut. 

Certain articles of diet, according to the same writer, notoriously 
occasion erysipelas. Shell-fish, and salmon, frequently do it, and 
in some individuals always do it. Acids have been known to do it. 

Is contagion a cause of erysipelatous inflammation ? According 
10 Dr. Good, erysipelas is contagious, but erysipelatous inflamma- 
tion IS not so. Here we suspect Dr. Good was misled by theory. 
Erysipelas he considered a constitutional affection, erysipelatous 
inflammation a local one ; the local disease could not produce 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 99 

contagion. The fact is, if either is contagious, erysipelatous in- 
flammation is so. It is the latter that spreads so alarmingly in 
hospitals; while we are constantly meeting sporadic cases of erysi- 
pelas which are not communicated to those most exposed to it. 
But is erysipelas contagious ? 

There are many who deny that erysipelas is generally conta- 
gious ; but affirm that it is so in some cases. Dr. McDowel affirms 
that he has known it occasionally contagious, though in the epi- 
demic, his description of which we have quoted, he says he could 
see no proofs of its contagiousness. Several other writers, of high 
reputation, say that they have known cases of undoubted conta- 
gion. 

Others go much further. Mr. Travers, (in his Inquiry concern- 
ing Constitutional Irritation.) affirms that the proofs of the conta- 
gious character of the disease are more decisive, and unfortunately 
more abundant, than of almost any one with which he is ac- 
quainted. 

Dr. Robert WiUiams, in his recent work on morbid poisons, is 
equally decided in his opinion of the contagiousness of erysipelas. 
Dr. Williams refers to the paper of Dr. Wells of St. Thomas's Hos- 
pital, published in the second volume of the Transactions for the 
Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical knowledge. 

As the cases collected by Dr. Wells are so much referred to by 
other writers, and as previous to his communication the disorder 
does not seem to have been suspected of being contagious, it may 
be well to quote them somewhat at length in this place, 

On the 30th of May, 1796, he visited William Emerton, who 
had erysipelas upon one of his legs. He was then somewhat deli- 
rious, and a few days after he died. 

On the 10th of June, Dr. Wells was desired to see the widow of 
the above. She had low fever of a bad character. There were 
upon the skin several irregularly shaped patches of a bright red 
colour, and of the size nearly of a half crown piece, but the parts 
so affected were not elevated, and gave no pain upon being touched. 
One of her arms was considerably swelled and appeared livid ; but 
there was no visible disease of the outer surface of the true skin of 
the arm, nor was the scarf skin separated from it. She died the 
same day. As she had been constantly in the same room with her 
husband, and as her disorder bore some resemblance to erysipelas. 
Dr. Wells suspected it was communicated from her husband. 

On the 8ih of August, Dr. Wells visited a man of the name of 
Skelton, who died about a week after, with erysipelas of the face. 
On the I9th of September, he visited the landlady of the above, 
Mrs. Dyke, whom he found labouring under erysipelas of the face, 
and on inquiry, found that the wife of Skelton had been seized 
with it a few days after his death, and died in about a week. 
While Mrs. Dyke was sick, her nurse was attacked with the same 
disorder. A nephew of Skelton was seized with the disease, a few 
days after visiting him, and died. The neighbours were deterred 



100 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

from visiting Mrs. Dyke, by a report that the plague was in her 
house. 

In December, Dr. Wells visited Mrs. Hunter, who had erysi- 
pelas of the face. She had about ten days before been with a friend 
who had St. Anthony's fire in her face, and died a few days after, 
and Mrs. Hunter had assisted in putting the body of her friend in 
the coffin. Two sisters of the deceased, and two servants of the 
family, one of them an old woman in whom it proved fatal, the 
other a young girl, had all been ill of the same disease. Three of 
these persons lived in one house, and two in another. Mrs. Hun- 
ter recovered in a few days and no other person in the family was 
attacked. In proof that it was not epidemic in the neighbourhood, 
Dr. Wells mentions that he saw only two other instances of the 
disease at this time. These two occurred in one house, and one of 
the patients was seized a few days after meeting the other, while in 
a convalescent state, upon a narrow staircase. He also mentions 
several cases observed by Mr. Whitfield, apothecary of St. Thomas's 
Hospital, Dr. Pitcairne, and Dr. Baillie. 

Mr. Whitfield says, that in 1760, a person labouring under ery- 
sipelas of the face was brought into St. Thomas's Hospital, and 
died ; that from some accident a patient having a different disease 
was put into the same bed, before it was properly aired, he was 
shortly afterwards seized with erysipelas of the face. Several other 
persons were about the same time attacked with this disease, among 
whom was the upper nurse or sister, who died. Hence arose a 
rumour that the plague was in the hospital. 

Dr. Pitcairn attended a lady in February, 1797, who was attacked 
with a fever immediately after being delivered of a child, which 
was accompanied with an affection of the skin somewhat like ery- 
sipelas ; her child about three days after birth, was seized with that 
species of erysipelas which the French call lagelure, which first 
appeared upon the pudenda, and then extended itself to other parts, 
among the rest to the face. Both lady and child died after a few 
days illness. About eight days after the death of the child, the 
lady's mother and servant maid, both of whom had attended it, 
were attacked with erysipelas of the face, from which both reco- 
vered. 

Dr. Baillie says, that during the years 1795 and 1796, erysipelas 
of the face was much more frequent at St. George's Hospital, than 
he had ever known it before. Many persons were attacked after 
they came into the house, especially those in a particular ward. 
He mentions a case on the authority of another practitioner, which 
he thinks unquestionable. A lady came to London to attend a 
friend who had erysipelas of the face, and was assured by the phy- 
sician of the latter that the disease was not contagious. In a few 
days, however, she was seized with erysipelas of the face. A 
hired nurse was also attacked with it during her stay with them. 

In the twelfth volume of the London Medical Gazette, an account 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 



101 



of six cases of erysipelas is given, as affording proof of its conta- 
giousness. Their history was briefly as follows. 

1st. William Parfitt received an incised wound on the scalp 
from an ox. About sixteen days after he was attacked with erysi- 
pelatous inflammation, commencinor in the wound, affecting the 
head, and attended with delirium and coma. 

2d. About a week after, Anne Parfitt who had been his nurse, 
was attacked slightly. 

3d. The father was next attacked, a man broken down by intem- 
perate habits, and in him it proved fatal. 

4th. Another sister twenty-six years of age, who had waited on 
her father and brother, was next aflfected. She recovered. 

6th. Daniel Parfitt, a brother who had lately come home, af- 
fected with low fever, became the subject of erysipelas the day 
after the patient last mentioned. 

6th. David Parfitt was seized with the disease about ten days 
after Daniel. 

Mr. Burg adds, that he had not seen erysipelas in the neigh- 
bourhood for four months before he witnessed it in the case of 
William Parfitt. One other person only was affected, and that was 
the aunt of the above. She had watched two or three nights with 
the person first attacked. 

Cases of this kind, however, prove nothing with regard to con- 
tagion, more than the extension of the disease in hospitals. For, 
in the first place, there is no proof that the first patient would not 
have had erysipelas, if he had not received the wound ; at all events 
the wound was only the exciting cause, and had any other member 
of the family received it, it might have occurred in them. They 
were persons of the same hereditary constitutions, occupying the 
same residence, using the same food, probably bad, (an inference 
we may draw from the habits of the father.) Fatigue and watch- 
ing was the exciting cause in the second individual seized. The 
same causes, fatigue and anxiety produced it in the father, and 
acting upon a system worn out by intemperance, cfcc. were fatal. 
Such circumstances will account for the extension of the disease, 
without contagion, in accordance with the general principle of 
epidemics. The same remark applies as strongly to hospital cases, 
with the exception of hereditary similarity of constitution being 
wanting in the latter. On the other hand, the patients of a surgi- 
cal ward, being generally the subjects of wounds or injuries, are 
placed in a similar position to each other. 

The following cases, published by Dr. Macklachlan, in a late 
number of the Edinburg Med. and Surg. Journal, though not given 
by him as proofs of contagion, are yet stronger evidences of it than 
those mentioned above, being free from the objections made to those 
cases, in as much as the subjects were not resident in the same 
house, nor members of the same family. 

Case I. A soldier who had been in the hospital with angina 
pectoris, had a seton inserted in his neck. Ten days after this, 



102 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

erysipelas commenced in the wound, spreading slowly over the 
scalp and face and chest, threatenino^ dissolution. 

Case II. James Smith, aged thirty-one, entered the hospital 
w:ith slight superficial wound of the scalp, and was placed in the 
same ward, about twenty feet distant. On the fourth day after ad- 
mission, (March 12th) the wounds became puffy, tender, and dis- 
charged on pressure a thin ichorous fluid. In the afternoon erysi- 
pelas commenced. The face soon became frightfully swollen and 
distorted, the eyelids suppurated and sloughed. Alarming typhoid 
and cephalic symptoms appeared, coma supervened about a week 
before the termination. He died on the 26th. 

Case III. Was that of a debilitated paralytic young man, who 
had a seton applied about ten days after the patient last mentioned. 
He died comatose. 

Case IV. A case of phlegmonous inflammation, occurred in a 
patient affected with pneumonia, who had been blistered ; he re- 
covered. 

Case V". A woman living in the vicinity, employed to wash 
the clothes of Smith, had an attack on the face and scalp. 

Case VI. A young person waiting upon the one last mentioned 
was similarly affected. 

These were the only cases that took place in the neighbourhood. 
Several cases of erythema anatomicum, or of diffuse cellular in- 
flammation, occurred among the persons employed about the bodies 
of the above patients, in whom it proved fatal, in consequence of 
the absorption of matter through slight punctures of the skin. 

The cases published by Dr. Stevenson were considered nearly 
all as proved to have arisen from contagion. The details of those 
cases are, however, so brief, that the reader has no means of judg- 
ing for himself The mere fact of one patient having visited ano- 
ther previously to having the disease, is no proof of contagion. Mr. 
Arnott's cases in which the patients were all members of one family 
are liable to the same objection as the Parfitt's. The fact that Mr. 
Arnott, though he admits the contagious nature of erysipelas of the 
face and throat, considers it not contagious when it appears else- 
where, is a strong argument that erysipelatous inflammation, is not 
at least in general contaa:ious : otherwise Mr. A/nott as a surgeon 
would surely have seen instances of it. 

In a report of surgical cases, that occurred at the Glasgow Royal 
Infirmary, Dr. Davidson has given an account of some cases of 
erysipelatous inflammation, that came uncler his chartre in two 
wards in which it prevailed epidemically, June 8th, 1836. The 
first patient in whom it appeared, was an unhealthy, unmarried 
woman, who had undergone amputation of the breast. She died 
in about a fortnight. The second case was that of a woman who 
had cancer of the breast, in whom it arose at an excoriated point 
of the tumour, a few days after the other. She died in about four 
days. After this many other cases occurred. Notwithstanding 
every precaution that was taken to cleanse, fumigate, and ventilate 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 103 

these wards, and to keep them closed for a month, the disease reap- 
peared in October, and in the course of this and the next month, 
almost every patient in these wards, was affected. It is only in 
these wards, that this disease has prevailed epidemically for some 
years past. They are at the top of the house and well ventilated. 

On two or three occasions, almost all tho patients of a particular 
ward have been affected, in rapid succession ; the first case being 
generally a solitary one, either originating in the house, or brought 
to it, while labouring under the disease. Dr. Davidson queries, 
whether the promiscuous use of sponges and towels, &c. can have 
any effect in producing the extension of the disease? 

According to Dr. Doepp, seven children who were vaccinated 
from one at St. Petersburg, had erysipelatous inflammation. He 
does not, however, consider the disease contagious, neither is it so 
considered at that place. 

Sir Astley Cooper, in his lectures, speaks of the disease as con- 
tagious. Notwithstanding, however, all the evidence that has been 
brought forward in support of contagion, there are still a large pro- 
portion of the medical world, who remain unconvinced. The con- 
tagionisls in general do not sufficiently discriminate between the 
laws of contagious diseases, and those of epidemics not contagious. 

It will ever be difficult to prove the contagiousness of a disease. 
Persons exposed to the foul air of a crowded room ; persons be- 
longing to the same family, or living together on the same diet, in 
a similar manner, and under similar circumstances, will be exposed 
to the same epidemic diseases. It is very common for us to find 
several members of the same family attacked successively by dis- 
eases which no one considers either epidemic or contagious. The 
effect of the imagination in producing nervous diseases by imita- 
tion, is well known. It is generally allowed that the timid and 
fearful fall victims most readily to epidemics or contagion, while 
the resolute and fearless escape. John Hunter tells us, that he 
could at any time produce a sensation in a particular part of his 
body, by fixing his attention steadily upon that part. Now is it 
not probable that, in diseases not contagious or epidemic, the at- 
tention being insensibly called to a part predisposes that part for 
the reception of the disease ? Is there not this sort of sympathy of 
organs ; of course through the medium of the mind, but the mind 
being entirely unconscious? In some the predisposition thus 
created will be very slight, in others very strong, according to the 
impression made upon them by witnessing the disease, and the 
readiness with which their organic functions were influenced by 
the mind. It would seem that all other circumstances being the 
same, a person is more liable to have a disease similar to one he 
has recently witnessed, than one which he has never seen. Is there 
not some proof of this, in the fact of our so frequently finding indi- 
viduals of the same family attacked with similar diseases? This 
however, is a mere suggestion ; there are abundant causes for the 



104 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

propagation of epidemic diseases, without making any such expla- 
nation necessary. 

The statement of Dr. McDowel, that although he had seen in 
former years undoubted evidence of the contagiousness of the dis- 
ease, yet in the epidemic, of which he gives us an account, severe 
as it was, he saw no proof of its contagion in any one instance, is 
strongly against the general contagiousness of the disease. 

Under many circumstances in which the small-pox arises, we 
might account for its extension, without allowing its contagious- 
ness. If, however, a person setting sail from another port where 
small-pox prevails, is landed in Boston, at a time when no cases 
are known to exist here ; and if he takes up his residence in a 
house, and is there attacked with small-pox if all those, or nearly 
all those who continue to reside with him in the house, and who 
have not been vaccinated, are attacked in the same manner, and if 
those who leave the house, go to different towns or villages, and 
are subsequently attacked, and communicate the disease to those 
around them in each place, and if those who visited at the first 
house, are shortly after attacked at their own residences, the chain 
of evidence is pretty strong that small-pox is generally contagious. 
Formerly, it would have been easy to furnish these proofs of the 
contagiousness of small-pox. Now, happily, owing to the general 
prevalence of vaccination, it might be difficult. But if erysipelatous 
inflammation, or erysipelas, is as contagious as small-pox, we ought 
to have as good evidence that it is so. But this is not the case. 
Let the inmates of a hospital affected with erysipelatous inflamma- 
tion be dispersed, and placed in healthy situations, and they either 
die or get well, and the disease ceases. They do not communicate 
the disease in places to which they are removed. Ample and abun- 
dant proof might be brought, that erysipelatous inflammation is not 
always or even generally contagious. With regard to erysipelas 
or erysipelatous fever, we are constantly meeting with sporadic 
cases, which occur singly ; the disease not extending to those who 
live with, or attend upon the patient, while instances of more than 
one of a family being attacked, are comparatively rare. 

On the whole, we do not presume to aflirm that erysipelatous in- 
flammation is never contagious ; but only that in the present state 
of the question, there is no decisive proof that it is so. It certainly 
is neither universally nor generally contagious. 

Seat. True or proper erysipelatous inflammation, all authors 
agree, commences in the skin, and affects the skin only. Hence 
writers have variously named it, simple, genuine, exanthematic, 
and its varieties, acute, chronic, periodic, fixed, ambulant, erratic, 
saltant, or volatile, miliary, vesicular, bullous, phlyctenoid, idiopa- 
thic, traumatic, sympathetic, bilious, and gastric. 

Always arising in the skin, the true erysipelatous inflammation 
has a tendency to affect the cellular membrane beneath, where 



WARKEN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 105 

collections of matter are formed, the skin is rendered exceedingly- 
tense ; suppuration takes place rapidly, and as this inflammation 
does not ulcerate, the matter works its way through the cellular 
membrane, which is finally destroyed, and the skin detached, in 
cases where the constitutional symptoms are not sufficiently severe 
to produce death. 

Mr. Hunter expresses some doubt whether this is the true seat of 
erysipelatous inflammation, and some modern writers, as Mr. Earle 
and Mr. Arnott, have attempted to restrict the term, to the affection 
of the skin only. It would, perhaps, have been better, if Mr. Hun- 
ter's suggestion had been attended to, but writers succeeding him 
have so universally applied the term to the inflammation extending 
to the cellular membrane, that it is now impossible to limit its use 
to the former only. In fact, if, as it appears to be generally con- 
ceded, the true erysipelatous inflammation has always a tendency 
to affect the subjacent cellular membrane, and if the latter is gene- 
rally in some degree involved, the distinction is perhaps hardly 
practicable or important. 

But if erysipelatous inflammation affect the cellular membrane, 
we shall be likely to find it in every part of the body where cel- 
lular membrane exists, or at least in every part where it is in con- 
tact with the skin. When we find mucous surfaces affected by it, 
such as the vagina, the rectum, the mouth, throat, &c. we must at- 
tribute its origin to the skin and cellular membrane, from which it 
extends, by sympathy, or irritation, or metastasis. It is probable 
also that in those whose skin is thick, and vessels sluggish, the 
same cause that would produce true erysipelatous inflammation in 
others, affects the deeper seated tissues, giving rise to inflammation 
of the fauces, vagina, veins, <fec. Hence it is principally in old 
people that these membranes are affected. In the venous phlegmo- 
nous inflammation of M. Sanson, the skin is the part first affected, 
and the difference in symptoms is naturally such as may be as- 
cribed to difference in age, texture of the skin, and activity of the 
vessels. 

M. Sanson, as we have seen, supposes that in at least one form 
of erysipelas, the veins are the primary seat of the disease. M. 
Ribes found the internal coats of the small vessels inflamed, and 
supposed the disease attacked principally the small cutaneous veins. 
M. Rayer says, that he has frequently met with true inflammation 
of the principal veins, in limbs that were the seat of phlegmonous 
erysipelas or simple phlegmon. He thinks phlebitis a complication 
of the inflammation of the cellular tissues, more commonly than 
that of the skin. 

The cases of inflammation of the throat, considered as erysipe- 
latous, and furnished by Dr. Stevenson, Mr. Arnott, Travers, John- 
son, (fee. have already been spoken of Mr. Hastings also mentions 
an inflammation of the throat, as frequently attendant upon erysi- 
pelas in the hospitals. Mr. Hunter says, " there is an inflamma- 
tion which attacks the internal canals, which is classed with the 
16 a b d 8 



106 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

erysipelatous, but how far it is the same I do not know. It is cer- 
tainly not the suppurative, and as almost every other inflammation 
was formerly called erysipelatous, this has been supposed to belong 
to this kind of inflammation. The inflammation I am speaking of 
is more common to the throat than to any other part, after going 
down the trachea. Whatsoever ihe inflammation is, it is certainly 
attended with nearly the same kind of constitutional aflfection. The 
fever in both appears to be the same, viz. accompanied with de- 
bility, languor, (fee. It produces adhesions, where the adhesive in- 
flammation seldom takes place, except from extreme violence ; 
hence it opposes suppuration in those places where suppuration 
most easily takes place, as in canals and outlets ; for there it more 
easily throws out coagulable lymph. 

In persons who die of erysipelatous inflammation, the face and 
head are generally the seat of disease. Hence the brain, with all 
its membranes, is generally more or less engorged. Tlie conges- 
tion arises from metastasis, or revulsion, or perhaps from the impe- 
diment afforded to the circulation. We cannot consider the brain 
ever the seat of erysipelatous inflammation. We come therefore to 
the conclusion, that the skin and cellular membrane are the seat of 
erysipelatous inflammation : that it tends to proceed to the subjacent 
cellular membrane, and form phlegmonous, erysipelatous inflam- 
mation, (the erysipelas phlegmonodes of Galen,) that in some indi- 
viduals, the mucous membranes become afl!ected. and sometimes 
the coats of the veins, either by sympathy, by the pressure of the 
inflamed and swollen parts around, or by metastasis.^ 

We have before alluded to the distinction between this and dif- 
fuse cellular inflammation that the first arises in the skin. Mr. 
Lawrence does not allow this distinction, but says, that he has 
never observed this priority. He therefore includes diffuse cellular 
inflammation, erythema atonicum, 6cc. in his observations upon 
erysipelatous inflammation. Most other writers allow the distinc- 
tion. This proceeds from without inwards, the other from within 
outwards ; erysipelatous inflammation, however, often occurring 
as a complication of the other. 



TREATMENT. 

Sydenham's method of treating erysipelatous fever consisted in 
free venesection at the onset. The next day he gave a cathartic, 
followed by a paregoric draught at bedtime ; with fomentations, 

* According to Dr. Gregory (Practice of Physic,) the mucous membrane 
lining the passages of the throat, vagina, &c. may be considered a continua- 
tion of the skin ; and hence erysipelatous inflammation may affect these 
passages without leaving its true seat. 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 107 

and afterwards stimulant lotions. A single bleeding and purge, he 
says, generally effect a cure, provided they are used in time. But 
in cases where the fever is high, he sometimes repeats the bleeding 
a second and a third time, interposing a day between each. Diet, 
water gruel and barley broth. There is, he says, another kind of 
eruption, wherein no evacuations avail. In this all antiphlogistics 
are hurtful ; and wine, and flesh of easy digestion, must by all 
means be allowed. 

Hunter, considering erysipelatous inflammation as a disease of 
weakness, recommends the use of bark. It is evident that Hunter 
being called to treat surgical cases, and Sydenham medical, Hunter 
must have had a greater proportion of asthenic cases, cases wherein 
erysipelatous inflammation arose in consequence of wounds, opera- 
tions, (fee. in debilitated subjects. 

Mr. Lawrence is one of the strongest advocates among surgeons, 
in favour of depletion. Venesection, local bleeding, and purging 
and low diet, according to him, are the first measures to be at- 
tended to, to which saline and diaphoretic medicines may be after- 
wards added. Vigorous treatment in the beginning, he aflirms, 
will cut short the attack, and prevent the disease spreading beyond 
the original seat. But Mr. Lawrence adapts his treatment to the 
age and constitution of his patient. In young persons, and in 
those of full habit, where the pulse is full and strong, or where 
there is headach and white tongue, in erysipelas of the head with 
symptoms denoting affection of the sensorium, and more particu- 
larly in the very beginning of the affection, it will be proper, and 
may be necessary, to bleed largely, to repeat the evacuations, and 
to follow venesection by local abstraction of blood, by means of 
leeches or cupping. The alimentary canal must be cleared by an 
active purgative, followed by salines, and antimonials, with tlie 
occasional use of milder aperients. Low diet. '' Nothing can be 
more different from such a case, than that of an elderly person, 
with a small feeble pulse, in the advanced stage of the disease." " 1 
have often seen such patients labouring under erysipelas of the 
face, in its advanced stage, with rapid and feeble pulse, dry and 
brown tongue, recovered under circumstances apparently so des- 
perate, by the free use of wine and bark." " The intervals be- 
tween these extremes is filled up by numerous gradations requiring 
corresponding modifications of treatment. The antiphlogistic plan 
embraces a wide range, in point of degree, from blood-letting, local 
and oreneral, to the exhibition of a mild aperient, with some saline 
medicine." He says that almost all the cases in young persons 
which he has seen, proceeded from external causes, and the stimu- 
lant and antiphloo^istic treatment has been injurious under such 
circumstances. Mr. Lawrence quotes, in support of the practice of 
venesection, the authorities of Cullen, Vogel, J. P. Frank, Joseph 
Frank, Dr. Duncan, jr., and Roche and Sanson. On the other 
hand, it is opposed by Fordyce, Willan, Bateman, Carmichael, 
Smith, and Pearson. Mr. Lawrence allows, that -when the 

8* 



108 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

redness and swelling are gone, when the pnlse is quiet, and the 
tongue clean, that is, when the patient is well, there can be no 
great objection to the bark." When there is any doubt, whether 
stimuli should be employed or not. he prefers the subcarbonate of 
ammonia. 

Mr. Abernethy, who considered erysipelatous inflammation as 
occasioned by a local cause, acting upon a subject predisposed to 
it by previous irritation of the digestive organs, simply orders the 
bowels to be kept regular, the stomach clear, and something sooth- 
ing applied to the inflamed part. In order to remove this disorder 
of the alimentary canal, he speaks highly of calomel and jalap. 

The treatment of Desanlt is not very different from that of 
Abernethy. It consists of the exhibition of tartarised antimony, 
one grain in a large quantity of water for a dose. A single grain 
of the emetic was sometimes sufficient ; but in other cases it was 
necessary to repeat it two and even three times. His local appli- 
cations were a cataplasm, moistened with some resolvent liquor, or 
compresses steeped in a similar lotion. 

Mr. Arnott recommends venesection in young subjects, and un- 
der circumstances similar to those mentioned by Mr. Lawrence. 
Aperients and purgatives he finds almost invariably useful, and 
when there is a foul state of the stomach, he gives tartarised anti- 
mony with opium. Cold spirit lotions are applied externally. 

M'Dougal employed general or local bleeding, calomel and neu- 
tral salts; and, when there was irritable stomach, purgative ene- 
mata and saline eflfervescing draughts. If the disorder did not 
yield, he exhibited two or three grains of calomel with a small por- 
tion of opium every fourth or sixth hour, until the mouth was af- 
fected. Where acute erysipelas is limited to the skin, he applies 
leeches. In traumatic erysipelas, Dr. M'Dougal employed fomen- 
tations, emollient poultices, and sometimes cloths dipped in cold 
water. In the second class of cases he describes, general bleeding 
was inadmissible; leeches, blistering, and the nitrate of silver lotion, 
were sufficient. In the third class he was forced to resort to the 
free use of wine or porter, beef tea, quinine, carbonate of ammonia 
and opium. 

Dr. Macfarlane, of Glasgow, (in a volume of clinical reports, 
1834,) says, that there are certain cases which require tonics and 
stimulants ; yet in the majority of cases, erysipelas is more effectu- 
ally controlled by venesection, local bleedings, emetics, purgatives, 
diaphoretics, &;c. As local applications, he recommends spirit 
lotions ; but if there is much vesication, dry flour or fleece cotton. 

Mr. Travers (Inquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation) re 
commends a middle course, between active depletion and the use 
of stimulants. 

Mr. Mackenzie (Diseases of the Eyes) recommends, as an emeto- 
cathartic in this disorder, one or two grains of tartarised antimony, 
with an ounce or two of sulphate of magnesia, dissolved in two 
pints of water, and given every two hours. In robust subjects he 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 



109 



says, venesection may be practised with advantage ; but not in the 
aged and debilitated. He thinks that saturnine lotions are highly 
beneficial. 

Dupuytren employed a treatment similar to that of Desault, ad- 
ministering an emeto-cathartic, or tartarised antimonyj in bilious 
habits. Where there was well-marked debility, as in old persons, 
he considered tonics indicated. 

M. Rayer. (Diseases of the Skin, 1835,) recommends free vene- 
section in the majority of cases, and local bleeding. In mild cases, 
lotions with cold water, he says, are sufficient. In erysipelas of 
the head, advantage may be derived from mustard foot baths, vesi- 
catories to the legs, and laxative injections. Where there is no in- 
flammation of the digestive organs, M. Rayer recommends tartarised 
antimony in emetic doses. This practice he says, has a great num- 
ber of partisans. (Diet, de M^d. et de Chirurg.) 

Mr. Listen, in his Elements of Surgery, lately published, says 
that in mild cases of erysipelas, attention to the state of the bowels, 
and regulation of the diet will be sufficient ; but in the severer 
cases, he recommends the resort to free incisions or punctures, in 
an early stage, in order to prevent suppuration ; as well as after 
suppuration has taken place, to give free issue to the matter. He 
disapproves of all local applications, flour, chalk, and camphor, be- 
ing of little use and producing irritation; while cold applications 
are fraught with the utmost danger from their tendency to produce 
metastasis. Some accounts have been published in the Lancet, of 
trials by Mr. Liston, of belladonna and aconite given internally. 
In the cases mentioned the trials were successful. Mr. Liston no- 
tices the difference in hospital cases from others, patients in civil 
hospitals being generally in a weak state before the accession of 
this disease, and hence requiring stimulants. 

Sir Astley Cooper's method (Surgery, by Lee) is to give calomel 
freely in the first instance, to restore the secretions of the liver and 
the intestinal canal. In the debility consequent upon the first stage 
of the disease, he recommends quinine or the common tonics ; and 
in patients of the lower class, who are addicted to the free use of 
spirits, he has found benefit from allowing them gin. He recom- 
mends the local application of camphorated spirits of wine in the 
first stage. When the blisters are about to break, or have broken, 
powdered starch should be applied, and if gangrene should take 
place, a port wine poultice, or a nitrous acid lotion, in the propor- 
tion of one dram of the acid to a quart of water. 

Dr. Dewees, in speaking of the erysipelatous inflammation of 
children, advises that in the early stage of the disorder the child 
should be freely evacuated, but not severely purged, by small and 
repeated doses of calomel. If the fever run high or is attended 
with strongly marked cerebral inflammation, blood is taken from 
the arm, or leeches are applied to the temples. But when suppu- 
ration commences, or when there is a tendency to gangrene, the 
system becomes enfeebled, especially if the disease is epidemic, and 



110 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

then the bark, he says, is absolutely necessary. When the motions 
of the bowels become too frequent, he checks them with chalk 
mixture. 

In Dr. Stevenson's cases in which there was inflammation of 
the throat, he found the most successful treatment to consist in 
copious and repeated blood-letting, and in the application of leeches 
to the neck, a measure which was never omitted when the affection 
of the throat was severe. 

In the cases of a similar kind published by Mr. Arnott, the treat- 
ment was also antiphlogistic. In the first, eighteen ounces of blood 
were taken from the arm, and leeches were applied to the throat, 
which afforded much temporary relief to the difficulty of swallow- 
ing, <fcc. In the second case, the treatment was strictly antiphlo- 
gistic in the outset; and when the violence of the symptoms abated, 
stimulants and tonics were resorted to with opiates at night. Some 
wine given when the patient appeared sinking from the eflfect of 
purging, evidently did harm. In the third case, eighteen ounces 
of blood were taken from the arm, with tonics in the subsequent 
stage. 

In one case given by Mr. Cox, (Med. Rep. April, 1825,) the oil of 
turpentine given combined with castor oil, by the mouth, and per 
anum, seemed to have a very beneficial effect. The patient was 
a female with erysipelas of the scalp, face, and breast ; coma, in- 
sensibility, and other symptoms of a fatal event, were present. The 
medicine produced several offensive stools, with marked relief; and 
the patient recovered. As turpentine is a useful cathartic in cere- 
bral affections, it may be considered very applicable in cases of this 
kind, where the head is aflfected, and the patient in a sinking con- 
dition. 

The authors we have above quoted, nearly all of them, recom- 
mend an antiphlogistic course of more or less vigour. Most of 
them advise blood-letting. There is another class of writers, at the 
head of whom is Dr. Pordyce, who deny the benefit of antiphlo- 
gistics, and recommend an entirely tonic plan. 

Dr. Fordyce (Trans, of a Soc. for Med. Improvement, 1793) 
says he has always found bleeding and other evacuations hurtful. 
Peruvian bark, given in substance in as large a quantity as the pa- 
tient can bear, commonly a dram every hour, he considers the best 
remedy that can be employed ; and is almost always successful, 
in pure erysipelatous inflammation, unmixed with phlegmonous in- 
flammation, or increased secretion of the mucous glands. 

Dr. Wells (in the second volume of the same Trans.) supports 
the same method of treatment, which he adopts with the expecta- 
tion of cutting short the disease. Dr. Fordyce, he informs us, has 
been accustomed for twenty years to give the doses above men- 
tioned at St. Thomas's Hospital. 

Dr. Robert Williams (Elements of Medicine) has advocated the 
use of tonics, particularly wine, in erysipelas, and since the publi- 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. Ill 

cation of his work it seems to have been adopted in various parts 
of England. 

Mr. Graves, at the Meath Hospital, Dublin, where the disease 
occurred in patients already debilitated by fever, gave first an 
emollient clyster, succeeded by a clyster containing from five to 
ten grains of quinine in mucilage of starch, twice a day, with wine 
and light nourishment. (Med. Gazette, January, 1837.) 

Mr. Henry Bullock, in the same volume of the Medical Gazette, 
advises the administration of wine in all cases, which he says is 
the method now adopted at St. Thomas's Hospital with great suc- 
cess. In diseases dependent upon morbid poisons, he says, it does 
not do to trust to symptoms. But it may be asked, if erysipelas is 
a morbid poison, which is by no means proved, does the tonic 
treatment answer in all morbid poisons ? Is it found that wine is a 
specific against the poison of measles, of scarlatina, of small-pox, or 
of any other morbid poison ? If we are to treat a disease not accord- 
ing to symptoms, because it is a morbid poison, it must surely be 
by the use of specifics and antidotes. But as long as it remains 
doubtful whether we have a single specific in the pharmacopaeia, 
and more than doubtful whether we have any that neutralise the 
morbid poisons, the rational method must be at least safer than 
the empirical. When wine, bark, or any article is proved to be an 
antidote to erysipelas, then and not till then we may give up at- 
tention to the symptoms. 

If we have a specific in medicine, it is mercury in syphilis ; yet 
notwithstanding it has been used for years, there are still very 
many who deny it this title; and in fact it has often been found to 
fail. Its action too in syphilis may be accounted for, upon the 
same principle as in other diseases, its alterative properties, its 
effects upon the secretions, upon the liver, &c. I believe it is now 
generally allowed that it is as an alterative merely, not as a v^pe- 
cific, that it acts in syphilis. But if mercury is not a specific, then 
we have no such thing as a specific. Nothing then can have a 
more mischievous tendency than this doctrine, that diseases are not 
to be treated according to symptoms. 

Dr. J. Green recommends the use of hot air, and particularly the 
sulphur fume baths, in the more indolent and chronic forms of this 
disease, especially if in the lower limbs, and attended with much 
(Edematous swelling. 

The writers from whom we have quoted above, direct their prin- 
cipal attention to the constitutional treatment. We shall now con- 
sider the principal methods that have been applied to the local 
treatment of the disease. 

The principal of these are the application of a blister over the 
inflamed surface, or above the inflamed portion, upon the sound 
part, around the limb ; nitrate of silver over the inflamed and bor- 
der of the healthy skin ; mercurial friction; leeches to the inflamed 
surface, or to the lymphatic ganglions ; bandaging the limb. 

The application of a blister to the inflamed part was used, we. 



112 BOTLKSTON PRIZK DISSERTATIONS. 

are told, in the time of Ambrose Pare. It seems, however, to have 
been neglected or fallen into disrepute, until revived and made 
popular by the sanction of Dupuytren. In this country, Dr. Phy- 
sick first brought it into notice. The view which led to its appli- 
cation is undoubtedly either to give issue to the matter, as no ulce- 
ration takes place spontaneously in this inflammation ; or to change 
the action of the parts. Dr. Dewees speaks of this application as 
attended with good effects which are wonderful. He has frequently 
succeeded with it both in the adult and in the child, and it is per- 
fectly safe, when the part is such that a blister can be applied to it. 
The blister should be so placed as to rest firmly upon the sound 
skin, and should be dressed as in other cases. When the situation 
of the part, or any other cause, renders a blister inexpedient. Dr. 
Dewees employs strong mercurial ointment. Dr. M'Dougal also 
speaks highly of the good effects of blisters. 

M. Rayer, (Diet, de Medecine et de Chirurgie, vol. 7th.) and 
Messrs. Roche and Sanson, recommend this method to fix the am- 
bulant erysipelas ; but neither of the three last mentioned authors 
speak very favourably of it. " This method," says the latter, as 
quoted by Mr. Lawrence, "always occasions severe pain, usually 
leads to the formation of an abscess, and sometimes causes mortifi- 
cation." 

Blisters have been employed in this affection in a somewhat dif- 
ferent manner. Mr. Hutchinson, in a letter published in Dr. But- 
ter's work on irritative fever, says he recollects an instance of the 
application of a blister round the arm, which stopped or seemed to 
stop the progress of the disease ; for the inflammation did not ex- 
tend beyond the blister, and the patient recovered. John Hunter, 
in a note before quoted, says, that if the inflammation is such as to 
contaminate while it spreads, but is cured after it has acted, then 
the proper course would be, to destroy the parts beyond it, so as to 
stop its progress. This hint, whether founded or not upon a pro- 
bable hypothesis, may have suggested both the practice of Mr. 
Higginbottom, and that of which we are now speaking. The same 
effect also is answered still more effectually, by the actual cautery 
of Baron Larrey. This manner of applying the blister seems to 
be free from some of the objections made to it when placed upon 
the inflamed surface, and it is well spoken of by those who have 
employed it. It should be so placed as to completely encircle the 
limb, immediately above the inflamed part. An interesting case of 
the successful application of blisters is given by Dr. Ware in the 
first volumeof the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. 

The application of nitrate of silver to the inflamed surface and 
neighbouring sound parts, as proposed by Mr. Higginbottom, has 
met with considerable favour. He applies the caustic to the sound 
skin, for a space of about two inches bordering the inflamed part, 
as vyell as upon the surface of the latter, breaking the vesicles when 
there is vesication ; but allowing the vesicles produced by the caus- 
tic to remain undisturbed. In the cases which Mr. Higginbottom has 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 113 

given, it is difficult to decide whether the disease was cut short'by 
the application. It is possible, however, that fatal metastasis is 
often prevented, and this must be the principal advantage to be de~ 
rived. M. Rayer speaks of several trials of this remedy by himself 
as not uniformly successful. Dr. M'Dous^al speaks very favoura- 
bly of its success in the epidemic above described, but he found a 
blister preferable, where the situation of the disorder admitted it; 
application. Dr. Davidson found incisions highly beneficial. Mr. 
Lawrence, Mr. Liston, and Mr. Hutchison, the original proposer of 
this method, considering that, at least where erysipelas prevails in 
a crowded city, in every severe case the cellular membrane will 
soon become affected, collections of matter form, and the disease 
progress so rapidly as to be beyond the reach of treatment, are for 
employing incisions in the commencement of every severe case, 
without waiting for the formation of matter. They were practised 
by Dr. Davidson, in various parts of the affected region, to the ex- 
tent of from one inch and a half, to two inches and a half; these 
he tells us were more beneficial than leeches or punctures. He 
found that the solid nitrate of silver succeeded in a great majority 
of cases, in preventing the spreading of the inflammation. He ap- 
plies it to a sound part of the integument, a part where there is no 
swelling: or redness, but as near to the inflamed part as possible. 
The inflamed part is to be encircled by the caustic line. This may 
be done by wetting with a large hair brush the part upon which 
the caustic is to be applied, and then rubbing a cylinder of caustic 
very freely over the moistened surface. Distinct vesication should 
be produced over the whole surface to which caustic is applied. 
The editor of the Med. Chirurg. Review, and others, speak highly 
of the nitrate of silver. 

Mercurial friction has been highly recommended by some wri- 
ters. Dr. Little and Dr. Dean, of America, contest the merit of in- 
troducing it into practice. The warmest advocate in its favour 
appears to be M. Serre. He speaks of it in terms which, if 
they found general credence, would settle the question at once. 
The application of strong mercurial ointment, according to him, 
continued for two days, will remove the disease if confined to the 
skin. If it continues after two days, we may be sure that suppura- 
tion has taken place, and incisions must be resorted to. He wishes 
the effect of this remedy to be taken as a sure test of the existence 
or non-existence of matter. It is to be feared, however, that while 
there continues to be such a variety in human constitution as at 
present, we shall never be able to form so certain a conclusion 
from a remedy in any disease ; and in this least of all. Dr. Dewees 
advises the use of mercurial ointment in cases where blisters can- 
not be applied around the sound part. M. Rayer opposes this prac- 
tice, as in his experience useless. Sir B. Brodie, some years since, 
in consequence of the benefit which had been reported to result 
from this application, and the ill effects which had attended its use, 
by producing excessive salivation, determined to make trial of simple 



114 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

lard as a substitute, believing that the virtue of the ointment in this 
disease consisted simply in the unctuous matter. The result of his 
experiments convinced him that such was the case, and that this 
simple application answered all the purpose of the mercurial oint- 
ment. It is obvious that this is not the principle upon which it 
has been used : the object being to alter the unhealthy secretions 
of the part and restore healthy ones, by means of the well known 
properties of mercury. Dr. Dewees employs the strong ointment, 
and M. Serre considers it of no effect, unless mercurial ointment 
of a requisite strength is employed. Dr. M'Dowel and Mr. Reid, 
the latter of whom gives an account of its use in Mercer's Hospital, 
speak very highly of it. It is more applicable in children than in 
adults, as the former are not so easily salivated. Where there is 
much irritability of the parts the ointment cannot be borne. 

Baron Larrey, in cases of traumatic erysipelatous inflammation, 
has used the actual cautery. This is probably a remedy which 
will never be a favourite in our country, from the horror which 
patients testify to its application. 

In Franco, where its use is conmion, it is regarded without aver- 
sion. It is probably attended with as little pain as the potential 
cautery ; while its good effects are more decided and rapid. 

M. Blandin, whose opinions in regard to the nature of the dis- 
ease we have already quoted, considering the di.^order seated in the 
lymphatic system, applies leeches to the ganglion above the lym- 
phatics affected. This is to be done at the very commencement of 
the disease. This method has been so successful that during two 
years' practice, we are told, he hardly lost a patient ; and in an epi- 
demic of thirty cases he lost none. Where the disease is seated 
upon the trunk, it is less applicable than when seated in the limbs ; 
and it is useless after the disorder has affected the system. Leeches 
applied to the inflamed surface, M. Blandin considers worse than 
useless. M. Lawrence, whose opinion in favour of the application 
of leeches we have already quoted, affirms that the cautions given 
by Willan and by Thompson are groundless, and that they may 
be applied with perfect safety. It is probable, however, that leeches 
applied as M. Blandin advises, would be sufficiently near the seat 
of the disease to answer every purpose, while being placed upon 
the sound skin ill effects will be less likely to ensue. No other 
writer that we have met with speaks of this practice, and no fair 
opinion can be formed until it has been submitted to further trial. 

M. Velpeau, some years since, recommended compression by 
means of a bandage covering the whole limb. (Archives Gen. de 
Medecine.) Although he considered it highly successful in the 
cases he gives of its application in the different species of erysipe- 
latous inflammation, it has been found as might be conjectured pro- 
ductive of mischief in the hands of others. Unless its use was 
sanctioned by general approbation, we should naturally hesitate to 
adopt such a method in a disorder like the present. M. Rayer 
speaks of it as useless, or dangerous, when there is inflltration of 



J 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 115 

pus. He thinks its use should be deferred to the end of the in- 
flammation, when there is swelling and oedema of the limb. It is 
better, he says, only to recommend it in the osdematous erysipelas. 
This seems to be now the general conclusion in regard to this prac- 
tice ; that it is only useful where there is oedema. Dr. Johnson 
recommends in such cases the application of strips of linen or calico, 
spread with soap cerate and lead ointment, over which a roller is 
carried up the limb. This prevents the occurrence of small collec- 
tions of matter. 

A preferable course to that of M. Yelpeau, at the commencement 
of the disecise. or where it is confined to the skin, would seem to 
be the application oi a tight bandage above the inflamed part. A 
hgature has been found highly beneficial in preventing the absorp- 
tion of the venom of reptiles. Might not the action be thus arrested 
almost as completely by this simple method, as by the application 
of a blister round the limb? It would have this important advan- 
tage over M. Velpeau's method, that the progress of the inflamma- 
tion could be always watched ; incisions might be made when they 
became necessary ; whereas according to M. Velpeau's method the 
parts must either be neglected, or from the rapid progress of the 
disease the bandage must be so frequently removed, in order to ex- 
amine the parts, as to render it nearly useless. 

I have thus given a brief abstract of the opinions of various au- 
thors, from which it will be seen that surgeons are divided into 
two principal classes, in regard to the treatment of erysipelatous 
inflammation. The discrepancy, however, seems to be rather in 
regard to the proportion of cases that require the tonic, or the anti- 
phlogistic treatment. Dr. Fordyce, it is true, supports the merits 
of bark in very unqualified terms, but in his communication which 
we have referred to, his observations upon erysipelatous inflamma- 
tion are too brief, to form a judgment of his treatment of the dis- 
ease. It is evident, however, that being a new remedy it was 
given both by him and by Mr. Wells, in the belief that it had some 
specific control over the disease, not as a mere tonic. As it was 
only in pure erysipelatous inflammation, too, that they found it 
beneficial, it is most probable that the disease would in many if 
not most cases, have subsided without any treatment whatever. A 
great deal may depend upon the manner in which bark is given. 
If care is taken to keep the alimentary canal free from irritation, the 
bad eflfectfe, and perhaps much of the activity of the bark, are avoided 
and lost, and the recovery of the patient may be owing fully as much 
to the laxatives as the tonics. Erysipelatous inflammation, like 
most cutaneous diseases, is generally connected with derangement 
of the digestive system. Now the most philosophical as well as 
the surest and safest way to remove the digestive disturbance is 
to evacuate the alimentary canal. This is done by emetics, purga- 
tives, or enemata, and if any irritation is left it may be removed by 
alteratives. When a person by free living has broujj^ht on a state 
of indigestion, he will continue to be constantly troubled, while he 



116 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

allows himself to live as usual. An emetic, or in some cases, a 
powerful cathartic, will remove the irritability of his stomach, and 
by moderation he will soon be restored to complete health. He 
may however prefer a different course. A glass of brandy taken 
after eating will stimulate the stomach to perform its duty, and 
will relieve the patient from the horrors of indigestion. It is true 
that after the discharge of its duty, the stomach is left debilitated 
like an over-worked horse, and the stimulus must be daily renewed. 
It would seem that these two methods by which the same end is 
answered had not been sufficiently considered ; or at least the 
aptitude of stimulants and antiphlogistics to produce the same ap- 
parent effect. The latter excite the digestive system, with the ab- 
sorbents, lymphatics, in fact the whole bodily machinery to healthy 
action, by removing the obstructing causes; the former by impart- 
ing additional impetus, and making it work in spile of the obstruc- 
tions. It is true that a skilful watchmaker when a watch is brought 
to him, the machinery of which has become foul, will carefully 
clear away and remove the extraneous matter, he will not en- 
deavour to give additional strength to the spring. Should lie do 
so, the wheels will be injured by the friction of the foreign parti- 
cles. The bark, however, might have been a perfectly safe remedy 
in the hands of such men as Dr. Fordyce or John Hunter, but in 
those of inexperienced persons much harm must result from its 
employment, as a general rule, in erysipelatous inflammation ; the 
cases described by Dr. Fordyce being such as, if any, most require 
depletion. Where there is any inflammation of the stomach, the 
bark is of course improper. Bark is said sometimes to have pro- 
duced inflammation of the stomach. 

Hunter, however, and those who have followed him, recommend 
tonics with a different view from that of Dr. Fordyce and Mr. 
Wells. They give it in cases of evident debility, to support the 
strength, not to cut short the disease ; with precisely the same in- 
tention that it is given to prevent mortification. The inference we 
must draw from a careful consideration of John Hunter's remarks 
is, that in the majority of the cases that had come under his notice, 
the patient required the support of tonics. He gives us only what 
he himself observed. An original thinker, like Sydenham, he did 
not trouble himself to quote the experience of others. 

Sydenham, Lawrence, Travers, Rayer, Mackenzie^^ McDougal, 
Arnott, Macfarlane, <fec. agree in recommending an gfjti phlogistic 
course in certain cases : that is, where there is active inflammation 
in a young and plethoric subject. They agree that it may be re- 
quisite in cases of debility to give tonics. All of them agree with 
Desault and Abernethy, so far as to prescribe emetics, when the 
stomach is disordered, and cathartics and calomel in every case. 

We might form a general rule from the methods of the authors 
above quoted, that an emetic of antimony, or a mercurial cathartic, 
should be given at first, according to circumstances, unless the vio- 
lence of the imflammation demanded venesection. If the disease 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 117 

occurred after an important operation if the patient were debili- 
tated by sickness or any other cause if the debihty came on after 
the active symptoms were removed we should give ammonia, 
quinine, or wine. We think that upon a careful examination of 
the authors referred to, it will be found that none of them denies 
the expediency of resorting to tonics in certain cases. Mr. Law^rence, 
who seems to have been considered as the champion of an ultra 
heroic, antiphlogistic course, points out very distinctly the cases in 
which venesection is forbidden, and tonics required. It is true, 
however, that the general tenor of his whole paper is in support 
of venesection and antiphlogistics, and opposed to tonics. 

Sir Astley Cooper, who stands perhaps at the head of European 
surgery, might be claimed by the advocates of tonics (from the re- 
port of his lectures as originally published in the Lancet,) but it 
seems to havo been rather from the brevity required by the limits 
of the lectures, or from the manner in which they were reported. 
For in the recent publication of his lectures, edited by Lee, he says 
that it is in the debility consequent upon the first stage, that stimu- 
lants are required. Sir Astley Cooper most certainly would not 
give tonics under the circumstances described by Mr. Lawrence as 
requiring venesection ; " in young persons, in the robust, and 
those of full habit, where the pulse is full and strong," (fcc. It would 
be contrary to all the principles of his practice. 

In regard to topical applications the weight of testimony of the 
authors cited is in their favour, as at least harmless, and not likely 
to promote metastasis. In regard to the nitrate of silver, it has been 
found to bo beneficial in some cases, and to fail in others. The 
application of mercurial ointment has some advocates in its favour, 
and some opposers, but the principal objection to its use, its lia- 
bility to salivate profusely, does not apply in the case of children. 
Dr. Dewees's name is sufficient to stamp its value. The application 
of blisters to the diseased part has met with little favour. M. Vel- 
peau's method is not applicable except where there is oedema, and 
in a late period of the disease. The application of leeches to the 
ganglions is worthy of further trial. Blisters applied around the 
limB to the sound part, have been successful as far as they have 
been tried. 

In the treatment of erysipelatous inflammation, when suppura- 
tion has taken place, incisions are of the greatest value. This 
would seem to be a new practice recommended by M. Copeland 
Hutchison, in a paper in the fifth volume of the Med. Chirurg. 
Transactions. It has, however, the sanction of Mr. Hunter: "when 
this inflammation produces suppuration," he says, "as the sores 
seldom ulcerate, they should be opened early, for the matter either 
gets into the cellular membrane, from the want of adhesions or its 
separate parts, which may be only attacked," <fec. 

Mr. Lawrence advises incisions, where there is any tendency to 
the afl'cction of the cellular membrane, which he thinks to be 



118 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

always the case, where the disease is violent; simple and phleg^mo- 
noiis erysipelas differing more, he says, in degree, than in their seat. 

Mr. Lawrence has been censured for the length of his incisions. 
Mr. C. Hutchison* protests strongly against their length. He pre- 
fers several shorter incisions instead of one of the length recom- 
mended by Mr. Lawrence. In this, however, as in every other 
part of the treatment, we must be guided by circumstances. It is 
evident that where a wide surface is inflamed, a single incision, 
however long, will be insufficient, while, on the other hand, more 
than one will sometimes be unnecessary. Mr. M'Farlane, after a 
trial of the methods of Lawrence and of Hutchison, says, " that 
when the disease extends over an entire extremity, and the tension 
is uniformly diffused, and so great as to indicate an affection of the 
subfacial cellular texture, I have experienced more benefit from one 
or two long incisions, than from smaller, and more numerous ones." 
But when the disease is exterior to the fascia, as most frequently 
happens, indicating the presence of gangrene or suppuration, in 
circumscribed portions of the texture, one or two, he says, are not 
attended with so much success as smaller and more numerous ones. 

At all events the incision should be free and sufficient one free 
incision is better than a number of small ones, though we need not 
adopt what Mr. Hutchison calls the " murderous" practice of Mr. 
Lawrence. 

In England, France, and America, this practice seems to have 
been confined to the cases of adults ; but in St. Petersburg, we are 
informed by Dr. DoefF, (Lancet, 1837,) it has been used extensively 
in the case of children, and with so great advantage, that whereas 
the mortality was formerly four fifths, it is now only one fifth. The 
incisions are made long and superficial. 

In the same volume of the Med. Chirurg. Transactions, that con- 
tains Mr. Lawrence's paper, is one by Dr. Dobson, in which he 
recommends numerous punctures. In his practice he found it 
very successful, but this has not been the case with others. The 
plan has met with little success. They are painful, and where the 
cellular membrane is only slightly affected they are not required, 
and where it is more deeply affected, they are insufficient. They 
do not answer the important purpose effected by incisions, of giving 
issue to the purulent matter, nor of relieving the tension of the 
skin. In fine, the eye of the practised surgeon can alone judge 
where there is a tendency to suppuration, and hence where inci- 
sions are proper. They ought not to be resorted to as a general 
rule, in every severe case of erysipelatous inflammation. If they 
do not relieve the patient, we have, in addition to the previous dis- 
ease, ill conditioned wounds, which may give us no small degree of 
embarrassment and trouble. 

The present writer has no new plan to offer in addition to the 

' Med. Chirurg, Communicaiions, vol. 14th. 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 119 

numerous and opposite methods he has described. In simple ery- 
sipelatous inflammation, he would recommend the treatment to be 
in all instances adapted to the individual case. There must be 
different classes of cases in different places. Thus the surgical 
wards of a hospital are apt to be crowded with the subjects of 
chronic disease. Many of them have been exhausted by long suf- 
fering, some by severe operations ; and a large class of those 
brought in, in consequence of accidents, are victims of intemper- 
ance. Is there not necessarily an important difference between 
such patients, and infants otherwise healthy? In the case of adults, 
age, constitution, habits, and present particular condition, must de- 
termine the treatment. It is very much to be doubted whether, 
except where tonics have been given in cases of manifest sinking 
and debility, any patients have recovered under their use, who 
would not have recovered without them. There are. however, 
cases, where no judicious surgeon would think of withholding 
them. There is so great a natural temptation to the use of tonics 
our patients and their friends are so apt to think if they "only had 
something to strengthen them, they should get well," that the cau- 
tion of Mr. Lawrence may well be repeated. He says, "medical 
practitioners in general are anxious to begin the strengthening 
plan, they seem to have the fear of debility constantly before their 
eyes, and lose no time in directing the employment of bark, and 
recommending animal food and wine. In this way relapses are 
frequently produced ; the inflammation and fever are renewed, 
further local mischief is caused, and recovery retarded." The 
maxim, slow and sure, is worthy of the utmost attention in medi- 
cine and surgery. It is better to trust to the natural powers of the 
constitution, which, unless there is some particular reason for the 
contrary, will restore the strength as rapidly as the safety of the 
patient will allow. The ground that erysipelas is a morbid poison 
and therefore requires tonics, is to say the least empirical and un- 
safe, unless all diseases thus named, typhus, small-pox, measles, 
scarlatina, (fee. are to be treated with tonics, which is going,back 
to the doctrines that Sydenham obtained so much honour by oppo- 
sing. 

In a mild attack, a saline cathartic, antiphlogistic diet, with calo- 
mel and Dover's powder, or a pill of calomel, antimony, and opium, 
at night ; and saturnine or spirit lotions to the part aflfected, will 
be all the treatment required. Lead water, or camphorated spirits, 
or cologne, are good external applications in the outset; and when 
the blisters have broken we may apply powdered starch or flour, 
as advised by Sir Astley Cooper. 

In a severer attack, if there is much gastric disturbance without 
inflammation of the stomach or bowels, we should give tartrate of 
antimony in the manner recommended by Desault ; or ipecacuanha 
and calomel in large doses. Where there is less foulness of the 
tongue and other symptoms of deranged stomach, the bowels should 
be evacuated by a full dose of calomel and jalap ; and a pill 



120 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

exhibited of one third of a grain of antimony, half a grain of opium 
and two of calomel, at night, or ten grains of Dover's powder with 
two of calomel. If the attack be violent, the patient robust, the 
pulse full and strong, free venesection will be necessary ; but this 
only in an early period of the inflammation. In judging of the 
propriety of blood-letting, the pulse must be our guide here, as in 
all other diseases. If the patient is a man of intemperate habits, or 
in proportion as his constitution has been weakened by an opera- 
tion, organic disease, or any other cause, we should be cautious in 
the use of the lancet. In most cases we should prefer general to 
local bleeding in this complaint. 

After the violence of the disease has abated, or after the employ- 
ment of depletory measures, if the secretions from the wounded or 
inflamed part, appear unfavourable, evincing a tendency to morti- 
fication; if the strength of the patient fail; stimulants, the best of 
which are the ammonia and the quinine, should be resorted to ; 
and the same rules which govern our administration of them in 
ordinary cases are applicable here. We are now to regard the dis- 
ease as under the same conditions, and demanding the same treat- 
ment, as when we have reason to apprehend mortification. 

In regard to the local treatment, this should be varied according 
to the case, and to the progress of the disease. In the commence- 
ment, cooling applications, such as have been just mentioned, are 
most suitable. After the vesication has occurred, warm applica- 
tions will be found more grateful, or sprinkling the parts with 
flour, starch, (fee. There seems also to be a capriciousness in the 
disease which requires the applications to be constantly varied. The 
writer recently had a case of erysipelatous inflammation occurring 
in the genital organs of a female. The lady who had been subject 
to attacks of this complaint on former occasions, made use of vari- 
ous remedies before she would submit herself to the care of a sur- 
geon. She had employed hot lotions, cold lotions, stimulant washes, 
herb fomentations, flour, &c. Most of them seemed at first to re- 
lieve her, but after repetition each would increase the distress, and 
the ultimate effect had been to bring the parts into the highest de- 
gree of irritation. When I saw her^ all local applicatioiis were in- 
tolerable ; the parts were described as very much swollen and 
inflamed. The only application that could be endured was a bread 
and milk poultice, and this was so intolerable that it was difficult 
to prevail on her to continue it. Applied warm one day it in- 
creased the distress, the next a cold application distressed her, so 
that it was necessary to employ it, hot or cold, according to the 
state of the parts each day. It, however, with the internal treat- 
ment, relieved the irritation, and the swelling subsided ; after which 
lotions could be borne. I may mention, however, that the poultice 
was removed, during the night, and tlie parts covered with flour, 
as the weight and moisture of the poultice prevented her sleeping. 
Laxatives, and a pill of calomel, opium, and antimony, were the 
principal internal remedies. The irritability of the parts subsided, 



WARREN ON ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 121 

but they had not become perfectly free from inflammation, when I 
last saw her, which was several months after I had ceased my at- 
tendance. She informed me that since then an inflammation had 
occurred in her finger which swelled to a great degree. She had 
no medical advice, and in the course of three months from its com- 
mencement, the skin of the finger came off entire. In regard to 
lotions and powders, the principal object is to satisfy the patient, 
and to soothe the irritability of the parts. Such therefore should 
be chosen, as prove most grateful in the particular case. We 
should consider it a strong argument against any local application 
that it produced pain. 

The use of the nitrate of silver and the mercurial ointment have 
too much testimony in their favour to be rejected; I do not think 
that either is applicable, where there is much local or constitu- 
tional irritability. Each may, however, be useful in particular 
cases; the nitrate of silver, we are told, will prevent metastasis; 
and in many cases where neither a blister nor the nitrate can be 
applied, we should find mercurial ointment beneficial. In all cases, 
however, where the situation of the part and other circumstances 
will admit of it, we should apply a blister around the limb, upon 
the sound part, especially in children. On the other hand, where 
we apprehend mortification, we must apply a yeast poultice or the 
nitrous acid lotion, as recommended by Sir Astley Cooper. 

When the parts are red, tense and shining, and we have reason 
to believe that suppuration has taken place, free incisions must be 
speedily resorted to, and they must be more or less numerous ac- 
cording to the extent. or the situation of the disease. Where 
cedema has taken place, we should employ bandages. 

On the whole, we are in favour of an expectant rather than a 
too active treatment. We do not approve of the thoroughgoing 
tonic course of Fordyce, <fcc. nor of the extreme antiphlogistic. 
To moderate the inflammation where it is violent; to remove gas- 
tric irritation ; to restore the healthy nature of the secretions ; to 
give an early outlet to collections of matter; to support the strength 
of the patient where it is likely to fail these should be our princi- 
ples of treatment. Dr. Bigelow classes erysipelas among the self 
limited diseases ; we have as yet no proof tlmt it can be arrested or 
cut short. All violent measures should therefore be avoided. 

The general principles of inflammation may serve to guide us in 
this. We do not say with Mr. Lawrence that it is an inflamma- 
tion, and must be treated as such. We say that it is an inflamma- 
tion modified by certain causes, and must be treated according to 
the general principles of inflammation modified by a consideration 
of its causes, and of the circumstances of the patient. 

There is one point of contention among the English writers, 
which I have not perhaps alluded to with sufficient distinctness. 
The idea has been advanced by some, and ridiculed by others, that 
the disease is different in London and in the country, and requires 
very difl^erent treatment. It does not appear that there is any 
16 a* bcl 9 



122 BOYLESTON PRIZE DISSERTATIONS. 

ground for this ridicule. In a crowded city like London, ihere is 
a vast number of individuals, extremely destitute, living upon un- 
wholesome food, in damp, unhealthy, ill ventilated, and crowded 
habitations ; many of them accustomed to the excessive use of ar- 
dent spirits. In them, inflammatory diseases must necessarily take 
a very different character, and demand very different treatment 
from what they do in the inhabitants of the country, breathing a 
pure air, and living comparatively well. There are a thousand 
causes, which make the air of a crowded city unwholesome, and 
likely to produce a predisposition to such a disease as erysipelas. 
The class alluded to by Mr. Hutchison, that of seamen, who he 
tells us are more subject to the disease than any other, demand 
very different treatment from those first mentioned. I do not mean 
to say that one class of these subjects demand universally one mode 
of treatment, and the other class an opposite; but only that one 
class includes a greater number of subjects requiring the tonic 
treatment than the other ; while the other contains a larger num- 
ber requiring the antiphlogistic. The observations made in regard 
to London, are applicable in a degree to American cities, where 
there are unfortunately a sufficient number who are in a similar 
condition to those I have alluded to in London. On the whole, 
the causes that promote and aggravate the disease, exist to a much 
less degree here, than in Europe. No universal treatment can be 
laid down. We must study the constitution of the patient, his age, 
temperament, habits, and even his hereditary constitution, and 
above all his peculiar condition at the time. Our treatment must 
be adapted to the symptoms, progress, and character of the disorder 
in the particular case. 

March, 1838. 



THE END. 



--* 



i 






Ti 




C 




cd 




to 




c 




H 




tiO 




}s 




Cd 




(^ 








o 




to 


05 


H 


I>- 


x; 


NJ 


V 


C\l 


iiO 


J^: 


c 


to 


H 




-P ra 




01 u 




H 0) 




-a^s 




<D H 




O 




Q) W 


^ 


-P Ch 


C! 


o 


^ 


C 


W 


o to 


V 


s 


H 


H 


H 


G 


crt 


o 


^ 


H 


CQ 


W 


^ 


c 


cd 


0) 


)^ 


Q, 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
LOWE-MARTIN CO. Umited 



