Author: Leslie, Eliza 

Title: The house book, or, A manual of domestic economy 

Place of Publication: Philadelphia 

Copyright Date: 1840 



Master Negative Storage Number: MNS# PSt SNPaAg033.5 



<272369> * *OCLC* Form:mono 2 InputMJL Edit:FMD 

008 ENT: 980218 TYP: s DT1: 1840 DT2: LAN: eng 

035 (OCoLC)38246398 

037 PSt SNPaAg033.5 $bPreservation Office, The Pennsylvania State 

University, Pattee Library, University Park, PA 16802-1805 
090 10 094.9 $bP53 1840les TB $crb*21011948 
090 20 Microfilm D344 reel 33.5 $cmc+(service copy, print master, archival 

master) 
100 1 Leslie, Eliza $d1 787-1 858. 

245 14 The house book ,or, A manual of domestic economy $cby Miss Leslie 

246 30 Manual of domestic economy 
246 18 Miss Leslie's house book. 

260 Philadelphia $bCarey & Hart $c1 840. 
436 p. $c19cm. 

"Companion to Miss Leslie's Cookery." 
Later eds. published under title: Miss Leslie's lady house-book 
Title on spine: Miss Leslie's house book 

Compare Mansell 328:232; Roorbach, Bibliotheca Americana, 1:319 
Publisher's ads [8] p. preceding title-page 
Includes index. 

Microfilm $bUniversity Park, Pa. : $cPennsylvania State University 
$d1997. $e1 microfilm reel ; 35 mm. $f(USAIN state and local literature 
preservation project. Pennsylvania) $f(Pennsylvania agricultural 
literature on microfilm). 

Archival master stored at National Agricultural Library, Beltsville, MD 
: print master stored at remote facility. 

This item is temporarily out of the library during the filming process. 
If you wish to be notified when it returns, please fill out a Personal 
Reserve slip. The slips are available in the Rare Books Room, in the 
Microforms Room, and the Circulation desk. 
650 Home economics. 
650 Cookery, American. 

830 USAIN state and local literature preservation project. $pPennsylvania. 
830 Pennsylvania agricultural literature on microfilm. 



300 
500 
500 
500 
500 
500 
500 
533 



590 



590 



BVZSZSD SBITIOX7 



OF THE 



WAVERLEY NOVELS 



For Ten Dollars ! ! ! 



The Publishers liavc now the pleasure to offer to the puulic 

A C03IPLETE EDITION 

OF TIIK 

Hv mi: AuruoR of way csilky, 

WITH 

HIS LATEST CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS, 

at a price ko low as to place tliem within the reach of every one. 
When it is taken into consideration that tlie whole of the latest 
Edinburgh edition is now co!n[)rised in Five Volumps, well printed 
on good paper, at the luiprcccdentedly low j)rice of 

th«' pul'li'- Will hr able to appreciate tli«'ir endeavours to furnish 
tlu' \Mitint2;-; (if so highly popular an autb.of at less tl;an osk-six rii 
of fhf price . t'thr origiuad edition. 






Complete ill Five larse Octavo Volumes, 

WiTil 

A P U T R A I T D F T' H E A U T H O R. 



CONTENTS. 



Wnverlt ij', 

A'ih'(ji/in ;/, 

j'/d'k Ihru'f. 

( lit! Mn? lai/li/. 

Jit 1:7 1 i;/ Mtd LnthluU, 

t)i i'le -.if fAniu/U'i.'/ioor, 

Lcgc/i'J of Mrnt; o-i(\ 

['(luhoe. 

The Mcnuibtei I/, 



IVw Abbot, 
Kf>:!i!r' rfh, 



7Vie Highland IVidotc, 

Tir^O Drorc? s, 

My Aunt Margaret' 3 Mirror ^ 



I ' ),- / ;/ ti t X qf Xi:-rL Tapestried ( 7, a ,, . bn , 
/'( reril nf the Peak, The LainPs Jo.-k, 
(.ininUn IJurtrard, Fair Maid of Perili, 



St. R'wan's Well, 
Redgaiattlct, 
The Betrothed, 
llie Talisman, 
Wo(xi stork, 



Anne of Uierstein, 
Count Robert of Pan'i>, 
Castle Dangerous, 
'The Surgeon's Daughter. 
Glossary. 



SIR WALTER SCOTT'S 
MISCELLANEOUS PKOSE WRITINGS, 



IN THBEE TOLUHIS, OCTAVO. 



PRICE SEVEN DOLLARS. 



KXATLY BOUND IW BMB08SED MUSLIN. 



CONTENTS. 

Paul's Letters to his Kinsfolk, Life of Napoleon, 
Essay on Chivalry and Romance, History of Scotland, 
Sermons, Life of John Dry den, 

Life of Swift, Deraonology and Witchcraft, 

Tales of a Grandfather — Four Series ; 



AND 



BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES OF 



Samuel Richardson, 
Henry Fielding, 
Tobias Smollett, 
Richard Cumberland, 
Oliver Goldsmith, 
Samuel Johnson, 
Laurence Sterne, 
Henry Mackenzie, 
Horace Walpole, 
Clara Reeve, 
Mrs. Ann Radcliffe, 
Le Sage, 

Charles 



Robert Bage, 

Charlotte Smith, 

Sir Ralph Sadler, 

John TiCyden, 

Miss Anne Seward, 

Daniel De Foe, 

Late Duke of Buccleugh 

and Qneensbury, 
Lord Somerville, 
King George tlie Third, 
Lord Byron, 
The Duke of York, 
Johnstone. 



SIR WALTER SCOTT'S ENTIRE WORKS, 
For Twenty Dollars. 



1 



■>»»^'M>»»»%0* 



E. L. CAREY j^ND A. HART, 

PHILADELPHIA, 

HAVB JUST PVBLXSHBD 

A COMPLETE EDITION OF THE WORKS OF 

SIR WALTER SCOTT. 

coMPRis ma 



The Waver ley Novels, complete. 
Poetical Works, including The 

Minstrelsy of the Scottish 

Border. 
Lives of Swift and Sryden. 
j Lives of the Novelists. 
History of Scotland. 

SernionSj 



Tales of my Grandfather, Four 

Series. 
Life of Napoleon, 
Essays on Chivalry, Romance, 

Demonology and Witeher^ft. 
PauVs Letters lo his Kinsfolk. 

^c. ^c. 



THE WHOLL REVISED AND CORRECTED BV HIMSELF. 
TO WHICn 18 ADDBD, 

KDITEr WT 

J. G. LOCKHART. 



Forming the only complete and uniform edition of the writings of 
the " Magician of the North" ever published in America. 

THE WHOLE COMPRISED 

IN TEN LARGE OCTAVO VOLUMES, 

WITH A FINE PORTRAIT ENGRAVED ON STEEL. 



Price, eleganthj bound in embossed cloth, and Uttered, $%Q. 



ADVERTISEMENT TO THE AMERICAN EDITION 

OP THE 

Complete Works of Sir Walter Scott. 

The writings of Walter Scott.. will be referred to hereafter as 
marking an era in English literature. With a genius expansive 
as the broad field of letters, his was the intellectual capacity to 
master every subject it approached. Familiar with the accumu- 
lated knowledge of dead ages, he brought to his task, whatever 
were its nature, a mind richly stored with all that was beautiful 
and apt for illustration, description, or analogy. 

Criticism has failed in its attempt to confine the acknowledged 
superiority of Scott to any distinctive range of subjects. The 
reader who finds sxirpassing beauty and thrilling pathos in the 
"Lay" and " Marmion," before he records his admiration will 
recall the graphic force and splendid imagery of " Waverley" and 
" Ivanhoe." — Though in the simple and natural sketches of the 
" Lives of the Novelists," he becomes entranced by the wizard 
power of the writer, yet will he not forget that the historic j)age 
which tf'lls of Bruce, or Napoleon, bears an eviilence of the 
writer's geniui5 equally brilliant and enduring. 

Scott's great and peculiar merit is admitted to be his invincible 
truth to nature. In the regions of poetry and romance, with an 
imagination tiiat never slumbers, an<l which gives light and life to 
every picture of its creation, there is ntill a naturaliu'ss that wins 
upon the heart, till f.ctiun becomes reality. It is here that the 
magician's power is felt, though the arm that lifts the wand is un- 
seen. On the busy, life-like i)ages of I'iogrnj.hy, his deep know- 
ledge of human character, and universal benevolence of (lis[)osition, 
are alike discernible. Charity tempers the justice of all his infer- 
ences, and there is ever a pouring forth t>f ti;at spirit of kindness 
which '•' deliL^hts to praise, t)iii falters to condemn." li is [kiIiujis 
o)\ the f^raver themes of history, that the (rimnph of S.-ott's t;.nlns 
is most remarkable. So irresistible are the charms of style uhirh 
he throws around historical subjects, that what in otlier liands is 
dry and uninteresting detail, comes t>om his ]>v\: witli the force of 
truth, adorned with all the attractive gra'^e of fiction. 

The works of an author like Scott cannot be loo ext«'nsive!y 
diffused. No one cm rise from tl\e perusal of his writint;s with- 



ADVERTISEx^IENT TO SCOTT'S WORKS. 



out having heen instructed as well as amused. The cause of reli- 
gion, and virtue, and morality, finds an advocate on every page; 
vice will seek encouragement from the same source in vain. 

It has been well observed by an able and eloquent American 
critic, that " if ever writer deserved universal citizenship, it was Sir 
Walter Scott. He was the poet of nature, the delineator of his 
species in every climate and on every soil ; so that, wherever his 
works were known, there was he to be regarded as a native and a 
denizen." 

It is in this spirit that the publishers of the American edition of 
Scott's complete works have undertaken to present them to the 
American people. They have supposed that they could not render 
a better or more acceptahle service to the great mass of readers, 
than by placing such a publication within their reach. The revised 
\miform Edinburgh edition, from which this is reprinted, comprises 
eighty-eight volumes, the cost of which is one hundred and twenty- 
five dollars. The American edition now published contains the 
entire matter, with the addition of " LuckharCs Life of Scott,'' 
with the latest emendations, in ten octavo volumes, stereotyped, 
and printed on excellent paper. Tf/e price of this edition is 
above one hu faired dollars less than that of the Edinburgh. 

The text of the " Life of Napoleon" was revised by Sir Walter 
himself. It contains copious editorial notes, with brief notices of 
many distinguished men who acted a prominent part in the event- 
ful wars which followed the French revolution. 

In addition to the likeness of the author, engraved from a paint- 
ing hy Newton, which accompanies the first volume, will be found 
a h u-.tiful medallion portrait to preface the seventh volume. 

The publication price affixed to this work is less, in reference 
to the quality of materials and style of execution, than that of any 
other production of the press in Europe or America. The invest- 
ment and expenditures connected with this undertaking are much 
greater than usually attend a republication ; and it will be a})i)a- 
rent that the publishers must rely on an extensive sale for their 
remuneration. They a})peal with entire confidence to the Ameri- 
can public, for a just and lil)eral support in their endeavours to 
disseminate the means of an enlightened and rational enjoyment. 

K. L. CAREY AND A. HART. 

" Vhiladrljihin, October, 18;{8. 

- _ __ ^ 



~_.j 



li' I 



"sjnm iiia^W(fi)iE^ 



OF THE 



FRENCH REVOLUTION. 

BY M. A, THIBRS, 

LATE PRIME MINISTER OF FRANCE. 

WiilD XUustcatfbc ^nectiotes atit» Notes, 
From the most authentic Sources, 



INCLUDING 



Mirabeau, 
Mignet, 
Lafayette, 
Dumouner, 
Lavaliette, 
Bourricnne, 
Abbe Eugeworth, 
Louis XVIIL 



Lacretclle, 

Necker, 

Ciery, 

Madame Roland, 

Biographe Modeme, 

The Moniteur, 

Alison, 

&c. &c. 



Duchess D' Abrantes, 
Joseph Bonaparte, 
Sir Walter Scott, 
Madame de Stael, 
Lucien Bonaparte, 
De Moleville, 
Las Cases, 
Caraot, 

Now first added i 

BY FREDERICK 8HOBERL, ESQ. 

In Three Volumes, 8vo. 

'* M. Thiers has acquired great reputation as an historian. His flistory 
of the French Revolution has become a standard work, and needs no 
eulogy. The translation of it seems worthy of the original. It is enriched 
by ubeful notes and striking illustrations, and will prove a very valuable 
addition to our literature." — Courier. 

*' A translation of M. Thiers's History is a work that has long been 
wanted. It is unquestionably the best that has yet appeared on the sub- 
ject of the French Revolution, being shrewd, dispassionate, and scrupu- 
lously accurate in its details. We are glad, therefore, to see this transla- 
tion, which is very ably rendered, and has the additional advantage of 
being copiously illustrated with notes, and anecdotal reminiscences illus- 
trative of the private and public characters of live e;irly leaders of the 
Revolution. We are all of us intimate with the names of Mirabeau, 
Danton, Egalit^, Robespierre, Marat, &c., but few of us know any thing 
about their private characters : the present work will supply this defi- 
ciency. Thus recommended, we will not permit ourselves to doubt for 
an instant of the success of this work." — Sun. 

" No man was better qualified for the task of writing this history than 
M. Thiers, who, independent of his own personal observation, has had 
access to various sources of authentic information, which previous writers 
on the subject were unable to command. He has with singular impar- 
tiality entered into the causes which produced such memoralde results, 
and traces \.h^^ progress of the Revolution itself in a most masterly man- 
ner. "--Sunday Times. 

" One of the chief features in this history is the impartiality with which 
it is written, a quality of itself to entitle the work to the popularity it has 
attained. M. Thiers's history of this eventful period will be found to 
abound in detail, and to present views of that tremendous event, of the 
actors, and their motives or their inipulses, under which they acted, which 
can be met with nowhere else, and will consequently be found to contain 
a vast deal of information new even to those who are already well read 
in the history of the French Revolution." — Scotsman. 



CAREY & HART 



HAVE JUST PITBLISHED 



THE NINTH EDITION 



OF 



DIRECTIONS FOR COOKERY. 



VK 



ITS VARIOUS BRANCHES. 



BY 



MISS LESLIE. 



WITH IMPROVEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY RKCEIPT8. 



AMONG ITS CONTENTS AHK 



Almoiul ice-cream, 
Ahnond pudding, 
Apple butter, 
Apple jelly, 
Apple pot-pie, 
Apple compote. 
Beef a la mode. 
Beef, to dry and smoke. 
Beef steak pudding, 
Bologna sausages, 
Bread, to make. 
Black cake, 
Bran bread, 
Butternuts, to pickle. 
Calf's head soup, 
Cantelopes, to preserve, 
Citrons, to preserve, 
Cream cheese, 
Chicken «alad, 
Charlotte russe. 



Chowder, 
Cherries, pickled, 
Cider cake, 
Clam soup, 
Cocoa-nut cakes^ 
Cocoa-nut pudding, 
Carrageen blanc-mange, 
Chicken curry. 
Curds and whey. 
Corn pudding. 
Egg-plant, to stew, 
Egg-plant, to fry, 
Election cake, 
Eve's pudding, 
Family soup, 
Fricasseed chickens, 
Force-meat balls, 
French green peas soup, 
Gingerbread, (white,) 
Grap« jelly, 
37* 



f' V y. L I K \s (• o () K i; i: V 



Gravy soup, 

Cunibo soup, 

Halibut cutlets, 

Ifrsms, (directions for cu! iii;;,) 

ILinis, ( VVfstphali.i,) to imitute, 

Ifarn, to roast, 

Honey irin^'cr c.ik(% 

Indiaii rnulTmSj, 

Indian pounil rake, 

Jelly cake. 

J.ady cake, 

Laidinj^, 

J.emon cu-tards, 

l.i'rnnn creatu, 

Lettuce or iuJad, to dress, 

I.-'b-^tcr, to dress cold, 

L'-d'Sler, p;)ited, 

MacciiuiiK to dre-'^, 

IMaccajoo!],, to make, 

Mai rnalade cake. 

Man. 

M''^; Mei') i lies' 

Mioce meat, 

IMidas<^es eaid" 
M uavian su;;ir <^aKe 
Mustard, (French,) 
f uan:^'e pudding, 
Ochra souj). 



K--. tc pirkle 



...up 



Oyster <!onp, 

Oysters, fii^'d, 

Oysters, pickled, 

Oyster pie. 

Paste, (the be^t [d. un.) 

Paste, (line pull',) 

Peach inariualade, 

Peach leather, 

Pirse a|.j)Ie^, to [ue^rrve, 

I'lurn puddiui:;, 

Pork and be ,n>, 

Poik chee.e, 

Pum[)kin (diip;, 

(^ueei) cake, 

Quince jelly, 

Ras()berry charlotte, 

Peeii i)ird>, to roast, 

Jvice c.ikes, 

Rye and Inliau bread, 

Salrnnn cutUd-, 

Sau';a«,'"<, (Une,) 

Svvecl p.>ta!'it' [Hiibiu,;!;, 

TcMir' -;■'> ni^ilbiiN, 
Tei l:i['n,>. t" -fr^V, 

T'i:\)Ah>r'i, : !.u-er\ ed,) 

Watlbs, 

Watcrtnelnn lin i, (i,, prcs*>rve,) 

Washingiuri cake, 

^^:c. iwc. 



Companion to MLss Leslie's Qjokeri/, 



THE 



HOUSE BOOK: 



i. 



OR, 



A MANUAL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 



BV 



MISS LESLIE, 



AUTHOR OK ". COMPI.KTR .SYSTEM OF (OOKEHV." " 

HtaiU'TS," KTC. 



, «KVE.NTV FIVB 



CONTAINING DIRECTJONS FOR 



L\UNDRV Work, 

RK MOVING 8TA1N.S, 
MGHTS AND FIRES, 
CLEANING FURNITURE, 
KIT( HEN AFFAIRS. 



WAITING ON COMPANV 
CARVING, 

HOUSE-CLEANING, 
MAKING IP LINEN, 
DRESS-MAKING, ETC. 



PHFLADKI.PHIA: 
<^' A R E V ,'k U A II 7^ 

KSH). 



PREFACE 



Entered accordine to Acl of Congress, in the year 1840, by 

E. L. ( AREY & A. Hart, 

in the Clerk's Omce of the District Court of the Eastern District of 

Pennsylvania. 



STEaEOTYPFD BY I. JCIHNSON PH FI.ADELPH I A , 



The (lesion of the following work is to impart to novices in 
house-keeping some information on a suhject which is, or ought 
to be, important U^ every American female, so that they nmy 
I he enabled to instruct unpractised domestics, or, in case of 
emergency, to assist personally hi forwarding the indispensable 
work of the family. More than nine-tenths of lliese receipts 
.. are entirely original ; all are expressly adapted to the meridian 
of our own country; and thouj^h they generally refer to the 
condition of families in wliat is termed irenteel life, a laro-e 
number of them may be found useful in houses where close 
economy is expedient. 

It has been the design of the author to make her directions 
as plain and intelligible as possible, and therefore she has 
thought It best to exj)lain every particular witii unusual minute- 
ness, as if addn^ssed to persons who were totally ignorant of 
the subjects in question. In this, as in her Cookery IJook, she 
has not scrupled, when necessary, to sacrifice the sound to the 
sense ; repeating the same words when no others could be found 
to express the purport so clearly; and being always more 
anxious to convey the meaning in such terms as could not he 
mistaken, than to risk obscuring it by attempts at refmed 
phraseology or well-rounded periods, 
y Complaints are incessantly heard of the deterioration of ser- 
y vants; but may not one source of this growing evil be trac. d 
to the dct,(>fioration of rnisfrrms m the knowledge and practice 
of all that is necessary to a well-ordered bn.jsehrdd. A great 
change has certainly taken place since the days when, .hiring 
the presidency of her husband, Mrs. Washincrton, followed by 
a servant-man with a basket, went daily to Philadelphia mar- 
ket; and when the all-accomplished daught<>rs of Mr. Jeiferson 
made pastry and confectionary in a room fitted up for that pur- 
pose in their father's mansion at Monticello. 

3 



PRE F ACK. 



,) 



While wc regret llic present system of education, in which 
all thinirs are t'auoht (or rather attempted) except that which 
to every American female must at some period of her life be 
absolutely necessary, we would not have our young married 
ladies discouraged if, on first assuming the charge of a house, 
thev find themselves subjected to much perplexity and mcon- 
venience from ignorance of their new task. A eon,petent 
l<„owled.re of household affairs is by no means difficult to 
acnuirc, and is within the reach of every woman of tolerable 
capacity, who has a proper conviction of its utility, and an 
earnest desire to profit by all opportunities of improvement in 
i,s pursuit. It is a homely but a true saying, that " where 
I here is a will there is a way." ^ 

A neat and well-conducted house, with fires and lights 
.,l«avs as they should be; and a table where the food .s invit- 
ina, from being good both in material and cooking; also clothes 
w.>ll washed and ironed, are comforts that are not lightly prized 
by any married man; and it is but just that he who perhaps 
h hours bard in his business or profession to procure the means 
f obtaining them, should not he disappointed ,„ their applK-a- 
tion; particularly when the deficiencies are cans.Hl by the 
,e tnels or the mismanagement of the woman who should 
c n id« it her especial care to render his home agreeable to h.m. 
Ml this h'ok have anyem^t in directing the attention 
„f , r youn. countrywomen to a subject of far more importance 
'. !;:•: married hap'nness than the cultivation "^ f ^-J ~; 
„|,shments, or the unavailing pursuit of studies that to fe nab 

iways abstruse; should H,on trial, be found a useful aux- 

■iry to practised housekeepers, in furnishing them with addi- 

::, hints, or new and easy modes of doing t -?-»>« ^i-o 

1 ,-.vs been done, its object will be accomplished; leaving 

t^ho: :itMh.' .-.«'•-- "'• ""-"^ ''-' ''' ""'' "" 

written in vain. 

Phtladelphia, February 19r/i. 1840. 






CONTENTS. 



I-AUNi.RT Work .—Washing, Ironing, Clear-starching, Doing 

up Lace, &c 7 

Rrmovin'o Stain.s AM) GiiEASE.' — Taking out Ink, Lamp-oil, 

Paint. Acids, &c 78 

Domestic Dtes 93 

CouNTRT Manner of Dxeing Yaux 101 

Insects, Rats, Mice, ike. , I()5 

Fuel, Fires, iScc. :-— Managcincit of wood and coal Fires in 

Grates and Stoves , , { ^ I 

Lf oHTs : — Afanagnnent of Lamps, Tajjcrs. Candle-making, Are . I 55 

FuRJiiTTKE: — Cleaning Carpets, (airtains, .Mahogany, Silveii, 

Glass, Knive.s and Forks, Brass, etc 171 

The Kitchen : — Its Furniture and Ctensils. . 227 

The Dining-room . — Table Furniture, Waiting on Tahle, 

Carving, ike 250 

Bed-chambers: — Bed-room F^irniture, Keeping it clean, &e. 296 

House-cleaning: — White-washing, Cleaning Paint, ^^crul)- 
hing, Preparing Rooms for Summer, Packing Furi)i- 
ture, Ace. :y,]f, 

MiscELLAXKOi s Articles: — Keeping a Cow. Poultry. Bees, 

Making Inks, Making (Joloura, ike 355 

Sewing Work. — Making up Linen, Hints on Drcs»-making. 882 

1* 5 



•■■I 



■s 

■^ 



M 

4 



1 



■I 



THE 



I 



H O USE BOOK, 



If' 



'f 



^i 



», 



";< 



T II E L A U N D R Y. 

No lar^e house should be without a laundry, or place ap- 
propriated to the work connected with washin^■ and ironinja^, 
A back kitclien may easily be fitted up for this purpose. It 
should have a laro^e fire-place for the convenience of boilinfr 1 
several kettles of water at a time, if necessary, and for heating I 
the irons. A pump or liydrant should either be within the i 
laundry or close to the door: also a sink for disposing of the ' 
dirty water. All the water used for washing must be soft, 
otherwise the clothes cannot be made clean. Soap, instead of 
dissolving and forming a suds, will always curdle and float on 
the surface of water that is either hard from being impreg- 
nated with lime or other mineral substances, or brackish from 
Its vicinity to the sea. The best way of softening hard water, 
when no other can be obtained, is to mix with it a large quan- 
tity of strong lye, (in the proportion of one gallon of lye to 
three or four of water,) or to stir into it a little potash, which 
last must be sparingly used, or it will injure the clothes by 
making them so tender that they will soon go to pieces. 

In places where all the pump or well-wat^r is hard, ond the 

7 



8 



THE IlOtlSE BOOK. 



running water saltish, it is usual to save rain-water for wash- 
ing purposes, by catching it in cisterns, casks, or tubs, placed 
under the water-spouts. Rain-water casks should always 
have covers to prevent impurities fron. getting into the water. 
•I-hoy should stand on feet, and be furnished with a spigot for 
drawing the water when wanted. Unless you have abundance 
of watJr, it is impossible to wash the clothes clean, or to 
n.ake then, of a good colour ; and where a sufficierrcy can be 
obtained, no good washer will be sparing in the use of it. 
Wasliing in dirty suds is of very little avail. 

In Anierica most families have ihc.r washing done once a 
\veek. This is much better, in some respects, than the Euro- 
pean custom of monthly or quarterly washes, as the .dothcs 
derive great injury from lying in their dirt; and also a quantity 
of clothing, often inconveniently large, is requisite when the 
intervals between the washes are so very long. 

May we be allowed to suggest that Tuesday (though con- 
irarv to llie usual custom) is a more convenient day for wash- 
ing 'than Monday ; as some previous preparation is always ne- 
cessary the afternoon or evening before ; such, for instance, 
as looking out and assorting the clothes, putting some of them 
in soak, ripping certain things apart, and replacing buttons, 
hooks, and strings that have been broken off; not to mention 
,he probability that some articles, which were put on quite 
clean on Sunday, might very well be worn one day more ; 
though il would not be considered worth while to keep them 
,H,t .,f the wash till next week. When it ,s done weekly. It 
IS rarely necessary to devote more tiian one day to washing, 
,md ano'ther to ironing; and we opine that, in general, it is bet- 
ter those two days should be Tuesday and \Vednes,lay, rather 
,han Monday and Tuesday. When it can be deferred, wash- 
ing should never be done on a rainy day, for many reasons. 



THE LAUNDRY. 



9 



For instance, it is not well to have the clothes lying all night 
in the tubs, neither will starch take effect in damp weather. 
At all events, the coloured things and the muslins should be 
left till it clears up. If the family is large, it is best not to 
have the small muslins, laces, &c., done with the general 
wash. Blank^^ts, chintz curtains, and other large extra things 
should always be washed at extra times, and at a season when 
the days are long and bright. Where there are mawy muslins 
and laces, it is frequently more convenient to devote a morn- 
ing expressly to the purpose of doing them up, than to put 
them in the ofeneral wash. 

It is a great convenience to have in the laundry a large deep 
closet for holding the utensila necessary for the process of 
washing. For instance, the kettles, tubs, buckets, clothes- 
baskets, starch-pans, lines, pegs, washing-boards; and also the 
ironing apparatus. 

Each of the v\'omen engaged in washing should he provided 
with one of the well-known grooved or fluted boards, which, 
by standing them up in the tub of suds and rubbing the clothes 
upon them, will greatly save the hands and expedite the work. 
They cost but a trifle, and can be procured wherever wooden 
ware is sold. 

The best and most durable clothes-lines are those of horse- 
hair, or of twisted sea-grass. Let them always be wiped 
before they are put up, and taken down as soon as all the 
clothes are brought in. There should be a sufticient number 
of cleft wooden J)egs to Sf^cure the clothes on the lines. 

There should be tall posts along the yard, at a convenient 
distance from the fence or wall, for the purpose of fastening 
the lines, which may also he propped in the middle by long 
forked sticks, the largest end resting on the ground. 

The laimdry should be furnished with !)road stout benches 



10 



THE LAUNDRY. 



11 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



of a convenient heiglit, to .hold the tubs when the women are 
standing at them. 

It is well to have a lye-barrel at hand, that lye (which is 
good for so many purposes) may be ready at any time. Also 
a barrel of soft soap^ and a tin or iron ladle for dipping it out. 

The large wooden folding frames called clothes-horses are 
indispensable in a laundry; either for the purpose of drying 
wet clothes by the fire when necessary, or for spreading out 
the clotlies after ironing, to free them from ail remaining dainji- 
ness. These ch')thes-horses should have broad substantial 
feet, so that tliey may not be easily overset. 

In summer the perfect drying of the ironed white clothes 
may be completed by hanging them out in the sun. 

There should be large tubs for soakino- the uncoloured 
clothes over night. In soaking coarse heavy clothes, mix two 
quarts of lye in the water of a large tub. 

Vou shouhl have a long round hickory stick, somewhat tl ii- 
tened at ono end, to stir the clothes whihi boilin<r — and a Ioh'^ 
stout liickory fork, with which to lift them out of the hot water 
without scalding your liands. 

Either the oval tin cups that hook on to the edge of the tub, 
or small wooden or earthen bowls, sliould be provided for eicli 
of the washers to put their soap in; it will waste greatly if 
they keep it all the time in th.e tub, and if they lay it besi.l.> 
them on the sloppy bench it will be continually slipping 
down. 

'I'he indigo bag for blueing the rinsing water sliould h<' 
made of new white flannel. The usual form is scpiare, srwr.l 
all round at the edfTc^i, leaving a small opening at the top to 
put in the indigo; which openincr must always be r,e\v(>d up 
after reph^nishing the bag with a fresh supply. When you 
use it, hold the bag in the water, pressing it with vour fm'^, rs 



It: 






till you have squeezed out sufficient blue to give a very light 
tinge. Then paddle your hand through the water to diffuse 
the colour equally. 

Have large strong bags to put the dirty clothes in as 
you take them off. The bags should be of substantial brown 
linen, or else of ticking, with a string of strong tape sewed 
to the side-seam a little below the hem at the top. If the 
clothes are left lying loose in the bottom of a closet (as is 
the custom in many houses,) they may be injured by the nib- 
blino- of mice or of cockroaches. Let there he a separate 
bacr for the small muslins, &c. 

In the laundry closet should be kept all the articles neces- 
sary for washing and ironing. Among them, a black bottle 
containimr ox-tnill, which will be found most useful for co- 
loured tliin^rs, as it will greatlv add to the clearness of their 
colours. A gall can be j)rocured from the butcher for a tritle, 
(generally six cents,) and no house should be without it. It 
should be poured through a funnel into the bottle, and kept 
closely corked. During the process of d,rying, the air will 
entirely dispel the odour of the gall : but, if you choose, you 
may scent it in the bottle by adding a little tincture of musk. 

A large brass or copper kettle is an indispensable article for a 
laundry ; as an iron pot will stain the clothes. Where there is a 
great deal of washing, two kettles will be found very convenient. 
For a laundry, a large fire-place is better than a stove, as the 
latter will make the room intolerably hot in the summer. In 
Knglish w.ish-liouses there is always a great copper kettle set 
in brick and mortar, with a place for fire underneath. This is 
a good con.tnvance, and saves the trouble of lifting the large 
kettle on and olf : and of course precludes any danger of its 
oversetting. We are glad to find that this apparatus is coming 
into use in America. 



10' 



I 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



Ironing tables should at least be large enough for two persons 
to iron on at a time, and should stand facing the light, that the 
women may see perfectly what they are about. There is a 
very convenient ironing-board, which, when not in use, turns 
up, and forms a high back to a bench or settle : which bench 
sliould have a drawer beneath it large enough to contain the 
blanket, sheet, holders, &c. 

The best iron-stands are those with feet and handles. If a 
mere ring, they are likely to scorch the blanket, and to burn 
the fingers in removing them. 

Holders should be made of square folds of clean old flannel, 
covered with calico and sewed at the edges. They should on 
no account be stuffed or interlined with wadding or cotton, as 
these substances, being very inflammable, will cause the holders 
to blaze up in a moment, if a spark should touch them in taking 
the iron f'-om the fire. 

Old soft towels, or pieces of old sheets or ta})le-clotiis, make 
excellent iron-wi})ers. They should be kept entirely free from 
grease or wet, and never used for any purpose but the proper 
one. 

The ironing blanket should be large, smooth, and thick, as 
well as the sheet that is to be spread over it v;hen used. There 
must not, in either, be any holes or patches, as those defects 
will cause the surface to be uneven, and prevent the clothes 
from ironing smoothly. 

Hits of beeswax should bo kept at hand to rub (for an instant) 
over the irons as they are taken from the fire, to remove any 
smoke or roughness that may adhere to them. 

It IS well to have a strong bag always hanging in the laundry 
to contain the bees-wax, indigo bag, bits of spermaceti, and 
other little things belonging to washing and ironing. 

Ther« should be regular white cotton cloth kept exclusively 



LAUNDRY WORK, 



13 



for the purpose of straining starch : always washing it out and 
drying it "before it is put away. 

A mangling maciiine, for the purpose of smoothing table and 
bed linen and various other things, will be found well worth its 
cost, in saving the time and trouble of ironing these articles, 
and in the superiority which it gives to their appearance. 

Skirt-boards are very convenient for ironing the skirts <>? 
dresses. Also bosom-boards for shirts. 

When the washing is over for the day, the tubs, buckets, &c., 
should be make clean and turned up to dry; all the articles 
used should be put away in their proper places, and the floor 
wiped up with a mop or cloth. 

Tabs, buckets, barrels, churns, and other utensils of cooper- 
work, should never be left out of doors when empty : as the 
sun and air will contract the wood and open the seams, causing 
the vessel to leak. 

Ail these things will last much longer if painted on the out- 

sid(\ 

« 

In Philadelphia it is very customary for families, as well as 
single persons, to put out their washing. There are many 
excellent washerwomen who take it by the month or quarter, at 
a verv reasonable price ; and if the washing only is put out, 
and the clothes brouglit rough-dried to be ironed at home, the 
expense will be found scarcely, if K-t all, to exceed that of hav- 
ing it done in your own house ; and you are relieved from the 
trouble and inconvenience of a washing-day. 



TO MAKE I.YE.—For this purpose hickory aj^hes is the 
best : but good oak ashes will do very well. Ashes of anthra- 
cite coal cannot be used for lye. 

For very fine lye of moderate strength, the ashes must be 
sifted or riddled through a strong wire sieve, to free it from bit* 

2 



14 



Tll C HO USE IJOOK. 



L A I N 1) R V ^\ (.) RK. 



15 






of cinder. To two quarts of hickory aslies, or throe quarts o^ 
oak, allow a o-allon of soft water. Iioil the water by itself; 
and then, when scahiinfr hot, pour it on the ashes ; let it stand 
till quite cold. Afterwards, strain the lye through a clean 
coarse cloth into another vessel. It should be quite clear. 

Another way of makin.<T lye is to put into a kettle two quarts 
of hickory or t)-,-ee quarts of oak ashes. Pour on four (juarls 
of cold soft water; boil it; and when it conies to a hard boil, 
lake it off the fire, arul put it aside to settle. Then pour it from 
the dreo-s or sediment throufrh a clean coarse cloth, and 

strain it. 

In boilinfr while clothes, put a lar^e tea-ciipful of clear lye 
into the wash-kettle. This is the proper proportion to two 
buckets of water. 

In washin(r black worsted clothes, such as bombazines, 
bombazets, l)lack merinos, ^:c., put a tea-cupful of lye into the 
first wat(>r. It will make ihv black colour look brii^ht and fresls. 

Lye will set the colour of new nankeen. Before it is made 
up, the nankeen should be soaked all nifjht in a tub of clear 
lye, moderately strono-. If the nankeen is of real Chinese 
manufacture, and not the imitanon that is made in Europe, soak- 
ing it in lye before it is cut out, will prevent it from fadintrover 
after. 



TO KEEP SOAP-FAT FROM MOILDING.— Whea 

you have collected a larn;-e quantity of kitelien fat, you may 
prevent it from spoilinrr iu the crocks, and have it ready at any 
time for soap, by makintr a weak lye on purpose, and i)oilinrr 
the fat in it till ii is thorounrhly melted. The fat will rise to 
the top of the kt;ttle. Srt it away in the kettbi to cool. When 
quite cold, you may take it off in a round cake. Wrap the 
cake closely in clean brown paper, (so as entirely to exclude 



I 



hi 



the air,) and keep it in a dry place. This is an excellent way 
of preservinjT the fat through the summer, to be made into soap 
in the autumn. 



ANOTHEll \\AY. — Some good housewives who keep a 
perpetual lye-barrel, keep also a covered tub half-filled with 
lye, into which they throw, every day, whatever kitchen fat 18 
proper for soap nraking. This will etTcclually preserve it from 
moulding, till you wish to use it for soap. An old meat-tub 
will answer vt^ry well for this jiurpos(\ It must be kept covered. 



TO MAKE SOFT SOAP.— Soft soap is a most useful 
article in washing heavy clothes, and in scrubbing flexors. 
When using it, keej) it beside you in a tin pan. It can easily 
be made in any house where wood is burned, though in cities 
it is the usual custom to exciiange fat and ashes for hard soap. 
\cu should keep in the cellar large earthen crocks as recep- 
tacles for all the ^rease and fat that comes from the kitchen, 
such as bits of the f<it of meat, bacon skins, drippings, 6ic. 
The t^at of beef and j)ork makes ihe best soap. Th(^ crocks 
should have tin or wooden covers. There should he a separate 
place in the cellar for the wooil ashf^s, and great care is neces- 
sary in putting it away, to see that there are no bits of hot coal 
among it; as houses have taken fire from a neglect of this 
precaution. For making soap, the ashes should be as fresh 
and new as j)ossil)le ; and of good oak, with a small mixture 
of hickory : for instance, one-tourtii. It can be made, however, 
though not quite so good, with oak aslies enly. 

^ ou must hav(^ an a.sh-tub or jjarrcl, which shoidd ],i tall 
and high : but is best ot' a i^uun<d shape, narrow ing (h;wn 
towards the bottom; and in the bottom should he a hole not 
larger in diameter than a half dollar. 'I'he ash-tub sitould stand 



^» 



(M 



16 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



LAUNDRY WORK. 



r 



on wooden skids or l<'gs, high enoiig-h to admit a largo common 
tub underneath. Lay several bricks inside the bottom roimd 
the hole, l^e bricks are for the purpose of keeping- up the 
ashes. Then cover both bricks and hole with a layer of straw, 
through which the lye is to filter. Then fill the barrel with 
five or six bushels of ashes packed down hard, (but not ({uhe 
full to the top,) and set a large clean tub underneath. Pour in 
sufficient boiling water (about two or three buckets full) to 
moisten tiie ashes throufrhout; as beirinninrr with hot water is 
a very quickening process in making the lye. It will be a great 
improvement to mix with the boiling water about two gallons 
of slacJked lime, or one of unslacked. Then pour in a gallon 
or more of cold water, about once an hour f )r a whole day. 

Next day try the lye that has dripped into the tub beneath. 
The first will be very strong, but it will gradually become 
weaker. The proper strength for beginning the soap is when an 
egg placed in the lye-tub will continue at the trtp with only about 
the size of a t^n <;ent {)!('(•(» ap'pearing al)ove the surface of the 
lye. If nearly tlie whole egg. or indeed the half of it keeps 
above, the lye is too strong. If the etror sinks entirely below 
the surfacp, the lye is (luite too weak. If you find it impos- 
sible r.therwise to get the lye of s»ifficient strength, you must 
empty out all the nshc^, fill the barrel afresh, and go through 
the whole ])rocess again, as weak lye will never make soap. 

When you find that the lye is of the proper quality, rake 
away the tub, and jdace another one under the barr«'l to catch 
the weaker drippiiKjrs, which you must keep to fill up the soap- 
pot when necessary. 

To begin tlie soap; — allow ;ibout three pounds r)f fat to a 
bucket of lye. Put the fat by itself into a vf-ry large kettle 
over a hot fire, and melt it; stirring it well with a round stick 
flattened at one end. VVhen the fat has all melted, pour in the 



strong lye by degrees; stirring it well, (and alw^ays one way,) 
till the fat and the lye are thoroughly incorporated. Then 
moderate the fire, and boil it slowly and steadily all day, till 
it becomes thick and ropy, stirring it occasionally. A piece 
of lime thrown in while boiling, will improve it. If it boils 
too hard, it will go over. If not boiled enough, tlie soap will 
turn again to lye. If, in boiling, the fat disappears entirely 
from the top, add more fat, as there should be some indication 
of it on the suriViee. If tliere should happen to he too much 
fat, it can be skimmed off when the soap is cold. As it boils, 
continue to fill it up with lye till tlie soap becomes of a proper 
consistence. If the lye is too strong, it will not unite witli it. 
Try the soap by occasionally taking out some in a dish or 
ladle, and setting it in the open air. It should be of a bright 
brown colour, and clear, and thick as a jelly when cold. 

When done, pour it olT into tubs or buckets, and carry it 
into the cellar to cool. Wlien cold, empty it into a barrel: 
keep it in a dry place, and stir it frequently with a long stick 
during the first three or four days. Il will then be fit for use. 
You should make your soap in the spring or autumn. If good 
it will keep more than a year. 

If you intend to make two kettles full of soap, divide the 
strong lye and reserve one half for the second kettle. 



COMMON HARD SOAP.— Having made from hickory 
ashes, or the best oak, a sufficient quantity of lye, which must 
be strong enough to bear up an ogg^ allow to each gallon three- 
<iuarters of a pound of clean kitchen fat of the best kind, (that 
has been clarified by melting it with vv^ater,) and a bit of lime 
the size of a large hickory nut. Put it into a large kettle, bgil 
It very iast, and stir it frequently. It must boil hard for several 
hours. Try it by taking out a little and cooling it on a plat©. 



I ^ 



\i 



18 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



When you find that it becomes a thick jelly, and no grease 
appears about it, stir fine salt into the kettle, allowing a pint 
of salt to three gallons of the soap. Let it boil for ten minutes 
after the salt is in. Then take it out of the kettle and put the 
soap in tubs to cool, and wash the kettle clean. Next day cut 
the soap out of the tubs, and melt it again, and cool it in wooden 
moulds, if you have them. When it is firm, cut it into squan^ 
pieces, of convenient size for washing, and place it on shelves 
to harden, not allowing the pieces to touch each other. 

The best kitchen fat for soap is that of beef and pork or 
"bacon. Should any pork or bacon skins be among it, you must 
allow a pound of fiU to each gallon of lye. 

if, in trving it in the plate, before putting in the salt, you find 
the soap too liquid, add a little water to that on the plate, for 
the purpose of making it jelly. You will then be able to 
ascertain how nmch cold water must be added to that in the 
kettle f)r the same purpose; it being evident that the lye is toe 
strong. 'Ill is must be done before the salt is put in. 

A larger quantity of lim.e, put in while boiling, will make 
the soap still harder. 

You may harden it also, by adding, while the soap is boil- 
ing, a little sulphate of iron. This will give it a marbled oi 
mottled appearance. 



FINE HARD vSOAP.— Tako fifteen pounds of the best 
lard, or of clean fresh suet. Put il into a brge kettle, hang it 
over a moderate fire, and make it boil. Have ready a quantity 
of excellent clear lye, five gallons of which must be strong 
enough to bear up au egg. Add with a ladb^ a very little at ,i 
time of this lye to the fat in the kettle, and put it in slowly 
for a while at first; otherv*-ise, it will instantly cause tlie fat to 
rise up ao high as to oVerfiow, and perhaps endanger the person 



■^ ' " ' " ! 



ill 



LAUNDRY WORK. 



19 



that is making the soap. When this tenderuj to effervesce 
seems to diminish, the lye may be poured in by larger quanti- 
ties. Keep the kettle boiling thus (and well skimmed) till all 
the five gallons of strong lye have been put in. Then add 
another gallon of lye, weakened by an eqvial quantity of water. 
The whole will then have the appearance of liquid soap. Then 
try a small quantity by putting it into cold water, and if no 
particles of grease appear on the top, it will be in a fit state to 
receive the salt which is to harden it. If you see any grease, 
add some more lye, and give it another boil up. Wlien you 
find it in proper order, stir in gradually three quarts of fine salt. 
Then try the soap by taking out a small portion, and setting it 
to cool. If it does not seem sufficiently stiiT, or likely to harden 
well, add another quart of salt, and give it another boil up. 

The soap will now be all towards the top of the kettle, and 
the Ive beneath it at the bottom. Skim off the soap, taking 
care not to stir it so as to mix in the lye through it. Put it 
into s(|uare pans or moulds, and sci it away l'- harden thoroughly. 
The lye that remains at the bottom of the kettle shf)uld be 
saved for washing coarse clothes. 

When your soap has become quite hard, take it out of the 
moulds or pans and lay it on boards to dry thoroughly. The 
above quantity of ingredients will, if properly managed, 
produce thirty-five poui.ds of firm, close, fine soap. 

If your lard or suet is not of the very best quality, take it off 
after it is all melted, strain it, and return it to the kettle, before 
you begin to put in the lye. 

To perfume it, take a portion and melt it over again, first 
cuttino- it into small pieces. Then, while li(iuid, beat it in a 
mortar with tincture of musk, oil of bergamot, oil of almonda» 
palm oil, or any other essential oil that has a fine scent, and is 
not so pungent as to irritate the skin. Then, when it is 



. ii 



i 



it 



I 



20 T H E H O U S E B O K. 

thoroughly imhued with the perfume, put it mtu s.nall square 
tm moulds, and set it in a cold place to harden. • 



STARCH OF HOME MAN LJFACTUUE.-Take a peck 

of un^rround wheat of the hest quality ; pick and wash it care- 
fuUy." Next put it into a tub ; pour on sufficient clear sott 
water to cover it, and then set it in the sun. lie sure to 
.hancre the water every day: keepiny; it in the sun as uuich a. 
possn>ie, or in an equally warm place in the house, should the 
weather prove unfavourable. When all the grains of wheat 
have become quite soft, rub it well m your hands, and separate 
It from tlu. husks, which must be thrown into another tu!). 
Let the soft wheat settle into a mass; and then pour olV the 
water, and put on fresh. Stir it well, and let it settle a^am. 
Kepeat this evt^y day, till the last water comes od cl(>ar ana 
cohH.rh ss. Then pour the water tinally oiV. Take the starch 
^,^,, ,.j-^.,, ,,l,,,„ll,,,t itintoat.h,nbn,r,and han«i U f-r a bw 
days in ihr sun; after which, sprr,.! H ^m di.h.s t^, dry. 



TO'PRKPARI: COMMON STAR(:H.--Fut a suiriciont 
quantity of dry starch (h.r instance from tu o to three table- 
spoonfuls) into a howl, and mix it gradually wUh just eriouoh 
of clear cold water to make it a tiun paste, pressin<,r out all 
the lumps with the hack of the spoon till you -et it pertVetly 
smo..th. Then pour it into a clean pij.km or skillet. Have 
ready a kettle of boilinrr water, and by drj^rees add souK^ of it 
to the stareh, stirnn- it well. Vou may allow fro.u a pint to 
a quart (d^ the hot wator, aceordm- as you xMsh to have tlo- 
starch thick, thin, or moderate. Set it on hot coals, and boil 
M^^c\] for half an hour. If not well boiled, it will not be 
^lutino),s. When It has boibd abr.ut blteen miuutos, ^ui it a 

few time?; (merely f -r a moment each) wUh the end of a ^per- 



LAUNDRY WORK. 



^\ 



maceti candle. This will prevent its being sticky; but take 
care not to stir it too much. If you have no spermaceti, sprin- 
kle in a little salt, (about a tea-spoonful to a pint of starch,) 
which will answer a similar purpose, or throw in a lump cf 
loaf sugar. Finish by stirring it hard with a spoon. 

Strain the starch through a white cloth into a large pan, and 
squeeze into it a very little blue from the indigo bag; but it 
must bo biLt a very little. 

For common coloured dresses you may make the starch with 

fine Hour mixed as above. 



GUM ARABIC STARCH.— -Get two ounces of fine white 
gum arable, and pound it to powder. Next put it into a 
pitcher, and pour on it a pint or more of boiling water, (ac- 
cording to the de^rree of strength you desire,) and then, hav- 
ing covered it, let it set all night. In the morning, pour it 
carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, cork it, and keep 

it f >r use. 

A table-spoonful of gum water stirred into a pint of starch 
that has been made in the usual manner, will give to lawns 
(either white or painted) a look of newness to which nothing 
else can restore them after wa.-hing. 

It is also good (much diluted) for thin white muslin and 

bobbinet. 



COFFEE STARfMI.— This is excellent for mourrdng 
chintzes, or for any thing that is very dark : the common 
starch u^iving a whitish, ashy, or dusty appearance to these ar- 
tieles. Make, in the usual manner, a tea-cupful of strong 
cofTep; mix it with an erjual (piantity of cold water, and then 
boil it. In the mean time, mix two table-spoonfuls of the 
finest drv starch with enough r,f c-dd wafr to make it tk 



\4 



\. ' 



it -, 






'.'i 



; I 



22 



THE II U f b E BOOK. 



WASHING. 



23 



smooth paste. There must both to<rether be a pint, when 
the starch paste is added to the diluted rofi'ee. When the cof- 
fee is boiling hard, put in the starch gradually, and sti/ U well. 
After it is all in, let it boil well for ten or fifteen minutes, and 
crive it a stir with a spermaceti candle. Put it into an earthen 

o 

pan, and when cool run the dress through it, squeezing it well. 



GLI'E STIFFKMNCi.— This is used for dark chintzes or 
calicoes. Tuke a piece of glue about the size of the palm of 
your hand; break il up, and put it into a vessel, with from 
three quarts to a gallon of soft water. Set it on the fire, and 
let it boil till the glue is entirely dissolved. Then take it oil, 
pour it into a large pan, and when it is of a lukewarm heat 
(not cooler) it is fit for use. Put the dress into it, and work 
it about till it has thoroughly taken the glue water. Then 
squeeze it well, open it out, and dry it as fast as possible. 
Afterwards, sprinkle, wW il up, and iron it. 



WASHING WHITE CLOTHES.— The while clothes 
are always to be washed first. Tiiey will wash the easier if 
put to soak the preceding night in large tubs with a mixture 
of lye and milk-warm water; allowing a pint of lye to three 
buckets of water. Stockings particularly should alway.. br, 
put in soak. Early in the morning, heat a suHiciency of wat* r 
for what is called firsting i-nd seconding the clothes. \\ hni 
put into the tvibs, dilute with enough of cold water to make it 
just warm enough to bear your hand in — if too hot it VviU 
rather sel tiu3 dirt into the clothes than take it oui. F(jr lineo, 
muslin, <^c., do not mnkv. a lath, r with the soap betore y.ai 
put in the clothes, but rub the soa}) ou the arlirb^ as you pro- 
ceed ; taking the most pains ^vitb the dirtiest places. Have 
ready beside you a second tub with warm water, and throw 



into it the things, one by one, as you wash them out of the 
fiisi. Or when two women are washing together, let one 
take the first water, and the other the second. 

'Inhere should be on the fire a large brass or copper kettle 
filled with water for boiling the clothes, and they will look 
wliiter and better if you mix with the water in the kettle a 
tea-cup full of strong clear lye. After washing thf^m well 
through the first and second warm waters, put the bed-linen, 
table-linen, and white towels into the kettle, and take them out 
as soon as tln^y come to a hard boil; or boil them slowly half 
an hour a longer boiling will irqure them. Stir them fre- 
quently with tJH^ long rcHind hickory stick kept for the ])ur- 
pose. The shirts, chemises, nigbt-gowns, handkerchiefs and 
(■ther muslins must not be boiled, l)ut scalded by putting them 
iuto a clean tub and pouring hot water upon them; for instance, 
from a larger kettle with a spout. No coloured clothes should 
ever be boiled or scalded, as it will destroy the colour; neither 
should white t!!inu;s with colouriHl l)orders. 

In boiling clothes, see that there is all the time plenty of 
water in the ketth.^ If the water gets too low, the clothes 

will scorch or burn. 

Wlien the things have boiled properly, take them out, 
put them into a tub of cold water, and wash them through it 
without soap— and then throw^ them into another tub of cold 
water and rinse them well. Lastly, rinse them in a tub of 
cold waier tinged with a little blue by squeezing into it the 
indirro bair. The thinfrs that have been scalded must also be 
put through three cold wat(>r^, the last one slightly blued. 

In takinrr them nui of every water the clothes should be 
wrung hard. After rinsing in tlu- blue water, hang them on 
the lines to dry in the sun, securing them with the clothes pegs. 

Let them all be brought in at the close of the afternoon, if 






24 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



not before ; as after sunset they will dry no more. If still not 
dry, spread them out on the wooden clothes-horses, or hang 
them on lines in a garret, back kitchen, or in any convenient 
room, if you have not a laundry. 



WASHING WITH SODA.— This method can only be 
pursued with white clothes, (i^'^t is, linen and cotton:) it is 
injurious to woollen, and to coloured articles of every de- 
scription. If done with great care, it answers vi-ry well f.r 
bed-linen, table-lmen, &:c., making them wlule and clean 
without the labour of rubbing, except in a tew places that may 
be particularly soiled. The things to be wash(^d n)ust al! 
be laid in soak the night before, in cold soft water. Karly in 
the morning, put into the wash-kettle, a mixture m the pro- 
portion of six gallons of soft water, a i)0und of hard soaj) cut 
into small pieces, (or a pint and a half of soft soap,) and two 
ounces of sub-carbonatf of wda, wiiich can be obtaine<i al thr 
druocrist's f .r a tritlo. Hang the kettle over the hre, and make 
it boil. In the nu^an time, lift the clothes out of the soakmcr 
tubs with the clothes-stick, and rub a little soap on those parts 
that are unusually dirty. When the mixture in tlie kettle is 
at boiling heat, put in the clothes, and boil them our hour.- (not 
more.) Then take them out witli the clothes-stick an<i drain 
them, by laying them across an old clothes-basket ti;riied 
bottom upwards in a large tub. See that they are thoroughly 
drained ; then rinse and wring them through a tub of warm 
water; and, lastly, throuuh a tub r.f cold water ting.Ml with 
blue from the indigo hair. Wring them well, and han[,r them 

out to dry. • 

Care must be taken not to have more than the pr-.pcr pro- 
portion of soda, (two ounces lo live gallons of water,) and that 
u is the precise article required— sub-carbonate of soda. In 






'I 



WASHING. 



25 



sending for it to the druggist's, it is w^ell always to write its 
exact name on a slip of paper. Also, the clothes must not 
boll too long, and they must be thoroughly drained and rinsed. 
Some washerwomen and servants are in the habit of putting 
in more than the allotted quantity of soda, thinking to increase 
the whiteness of the clothes in a shorter time : but too much 
soda has the elTect of making them what is called tender, and 
causing them very soon to slit and drop to pieces. This prac- 
tice (together witli the long boiling) has excited much preju- 
dice against tin* use of soda in washing; and it is an abuse 
that it is difTicult to guard against, when the washing is not 
done under your own immediate inspection. Nevertheless, if 
you are caretul not to put in more than the due proportion, the 
soda will be found to lighten the labour of the washers. 

Such, however, is the care and exactness required in wash- 
ing with soda, and so injurious its effects when used impro- 
perly, that we think it should only be intrusted to persons 
who are themselves particularly inlerest<>d in the preservation 
of the clotlies. If you have not perfect confidence in your 
washerwomen or servants, it is satest to have your white 
clothes made clean in the usual manner, by w^ashing through 
two warm lathers, and boiling them afterwards but a very short 
time. 



TO WHITEN CLOTHES.— After they are well washed, 
spread them in the sun on the grass for two or three days : 
bringing them in after the sun declines, lest they should be 
mildewed by the evening damp. 

Small muslins should always he laid on the grass to whiten 
att(T w^ashing, except in winter; and then they should be 
pinned to towels, and hung on a line exposed to the sun. 



m 



26 



THE HO USE BOOK. 






j ■ 



r 



ii: 






It 



TO BLEACH A FADED DRESS.— If you find that a 
coloured muslin or chintz with a white ground has faded very 
much in washin^^, you may dischartre liie colour entirely, and 
wear it as a white dress, provided it has not been sewed with 
coloured silk. For tliis purpose, havinjr first well washed it in 
hot suds, boil it till the cnlour seems to be (rone ; tiien wash it out 
of the boil, rinse it, and dry it in the sun. Then, if not (juite 
white, lay it on the ^rrass where the sun is very hot, and bleach 
it fur several days. If still not (}uite winte, repeal the boilinir. 



SPRINKLING AND FOLDING.— Win n your clothes 
are quite dry, and you have broutrht them to the house in the 
baskets, spread them one at a time on a larire clean table or iron- 
ing-board, and sprinkle them well by dippinir your hand in a 
pan of clean cold water. Then pull and stretch them, and fold 
or roll them tightly. Put the small muslins all together, and 
roll round them a large clean towel. 

In fubiing shirts, turn inw;\nls lli*' colhirs, bosoms, and 
wristbands; rolling up the shirt tightly, with the back 

outside. 

Dresses must be folded with tb.e bodies and sleeves inside. 
The collars of loose gowns should be turned inwards; also the 
ruffles or trimming of pantalets. 



IRONING. — If you have not a laundry-room separate from 
the kitchen, it is best on ironing days to arrange the dinner 
so as to have inUhing to roast licinTi- the fin^ ; as uidess tlie lire- 
place is extremely large, ironing and roasting cannot go on 
togetlier, on th«^ same hearth, without incouvcnltMu-f. 

F^or ironing, have a clean well-swept hearth, and a larg(\ 
clear, broad fire, with plenty of bright hot coals, as they heat 



IRONING. 



Zi 



the irons much better than a blaze. Chunks of wood will 
blackf^n and snu)ke \hv irons. 

Yoiir ironing table should be largt% and used only for that 
purpose, or for sprinkling and folding clothes. At least no 
greasy work should be done on it ; but if that is unavoidable, 
it should b(^ well scoured afterwards. It should have a com- 
modious drawer or drawers for tlie blanket and the sheet, the 
wipe-rs, holders, iron-stands, bees-wax, &:c. It is well to have 
alwavs at haiul a piece (>f bees-wax or the end of a spermaceti 
candle. 'J'his if rubbed on the iron the moment it is taken from 
the fire, and wiped olT instantly, will add greatly to its smooth- 
ness. If you find that the iron scorches or burns the wiper, it 
will also scorch the clothes : therefore stand it aside on a cool 
part of the hearth, or set it out of doors on the brick pavement, 
and try another iron while it is cooling. The thinner the 
article that is to be ironed, the less heat it will require. 

For every person occupied in ironing, there should be an 
''lbuv;inc(^ of ihree irons at least. If one pt rson is rroniug 
alone, there should be four irons. It is a loss of tiiiie to wait 
idly f )r want of an iron that may be hot enough or cool enough ; 
which must always be the case if the number in use is too 
scanty. 

There shoubd be a large clothes-horse at hand, on which to 
liang the things as tln^y come^ from the ironing table, that all 
dampness may be thoroughly dried out ol" them, before they 
are put away. For laces, muslins, and other very slight things 
that dry Cf)mpletely in tlie process of ironing, you should have 
a broad bask(>t and lav them ii-jhtly in it, as ynu finish tiicm. 
In aummer, shorts and ta!)b'-cbjtiis may after imning bo hung 
out on the cb'tbcs-line in tlio hot sun; turnino- them often. 

H(>fore usiinr an iron f ^r lac»; or thin muslin, smooth over 
with it one or two kitchen towels, or some other small thick 



"Tfc 

t 



THi: HOUSE BOOK. 



I 



I 



article. Be eareful in ironin<r lace, ribbons, or any lon^r nar- 
row slrij)s, not to islrotcli tbeio crooked, but do tbeoi slowly, 
straight, and evenly ; and with the point of tiie iron press out 
every scollop separately. Always iron lace and needle-work 
on the wrong' side- In ironing collars, do them first length- 
ways, and then crossways — and take care not to stretch one 
half of the collar larger than the other. Pleated frills never 
look so well as when the pleats are laid down with the fingers ; 
and skill in pleating is only to be acfiuired by practice, (.are 
should be taken to make all the pleats exactly of the same size 
and perfectly straigiit. Crooked, uneven, or slanting pleats look 
very badly. A ruffle with a very narrow hern pleats much 
more easil}'' than one with a broad hem. On a small frill, 
crimping the edge with a straight knife may be substituted tor 
pleating. 

In ironing a night-cap, do the crov/n first, and then the bor- 
der ; lastly, the strings and bands. 

Kibboiis and silks should be smoothed with an iron just. 
warm eno-iigh to jircss out the creases. A hot iron will cb<mg(? 
the colour, (ireen ribbons ahvai/^ chantife in ironinc : blues 
and pinks become darker. Silks should be sprinkled, folded, 
and rolled up tightly an hour or more before they are ironed. 
They should always be done on the wrong side where prac- 
ticable. 

Sheets and table-cloths should In; ironed double, with a larjjc 
iron pressed on them hard and heavily. 

All colour* (1 tliintrs must be done with an iron rather cooler 
than ft»r whit!^ clothes, as too gr<'at heat will injure the colours. 
Iron them always on the wrong side, wherever the manner ia 
which th(\y ar(> m;ide will allow it. 

When about to irosi a frock or gown, if you have not ample 
space on the tabb^ set a chair in a convenient place to receive 






IRONING. 



the sleeves or any part that may hang down, so as not to let 
them touch the lloor. Hegin at tiie body : next do the sleeves : 
and tlien the skirt, commencing at the top or upper part. A 
skirt'-board is an excellent tbiufr. It should be madt^ wide at 
the bottom, narrowing gradually towards the top. It can be 
obtained from the stores where wooden ware is sold ; or a car- 
penter can he directed to make one. Cover it first with blan- 
keting and then with sheeting, both sewed lightly and smoothly 
over it. 'I'his bo?.rd is to slip into the skirt of llie dress, which 
may thus hv ironed witiioul a crease. I^utlinirs or fratberinrrs 
in the sleeves should be fobbul or creased in hall'', along tho 
middle, and ironed out lik(^ a flounce or rutlle. 

In iromng {x-tticoats, de.vible them from the two sides, and 
not behind and before; as that will make a fold down the front 
wliich will stand out awkward I v when on. 

When you iron a shirt, begin at the bosom; then do the 
collar, then \\\v sbM>ves, and lastly the back. A small board, 
en a sii.nilar pbm tr> tliat recoinmended for the skirts of dresses, 
will be f )tind very us(>ful to slip under the bosoms of shirts 
when ironing them. 

\\ heuev(^r you begin a thing, iron it as fast as you can, (pro- 
^'iding always that you do it carefully,) and avoid quitting the 
table wliile the arlielc you ar(^ doing is untlnished ; for if you 
leave it, there is danger of its becoming so dry that it will be 
impossible afterwards to iron it smoothly. 

Vou may heat a few irons in the oven of a close stove; on 
a footman or iron shelf hooked on in front of a coal-grate ; or 
by setting them on the bars of a chareoal furnace. 



Fl.UTLNG WITH A PATENT ITALIAN IRON — 

'i'liis looks very well for any frilhnnr or ruffling that is not of 
worked mu-lin or luce, and it kee{)s in place much lunger thaa 



30 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



pleating-, resistinfr even danip weather. It cannot, however 
be done well if the frill is more than half a hnger deep. A 
patent iron costs but a trihe, and will be tound very useful for 
flutino- the ruflles of 'driolrani, chintz, or painted muslin 
dresses and pelerines. Tliese irons are fixed to a stand, and 
liave smooth tufjes diminishin<r towards one end which is close, 
and open at the oilier to admit the heater. There are always 
two heaters ; they have ionof handles and somewhat resemble 
a poker. While you ;ire usinjr (>n<\ the other is heated by put- 
tinyr the thick end into tht; lire till it becomes n<^ariv red-hot. 
Jt is then slipped into the hollow tube, over wbich you stretch 
th(^ frill, a little ai a time, holding it ti<^htly with both hands 
between the thuml) and fm^'t r, and as von iro alonfr pinchipf'" 
it down at the sides close airaiiist the iron, taking care to ket^p 
it quite strai«rht. Tiie gathered part of the frill nmst go upon 
the j)oint of tin- irc^n. 

When rntlles are to be fluted, they must first be starched and 
dried, and then sprinkled very iiaMi|:'. 

Take care to have nnc o\ tic beaters aUvavs in the fire, so 
that It may be hot by the tune the other has become too cool 
for use. \( luu hot, the tube will scorch the frill, and burn 
your fingeTs. 



i 



\ 



TO IRON VKLVI-yi\— Havinir ripped the velvet apart, 
take each ))iece separatfdy, and holding it tightly in both 
liands, stretch it round a warm stove-jiipe, the wrong-siiie of 
flu; velvet ag-ainst tln^ iron. This will remove the cr<'ases, 
and give the surface ot the matt^nal i tVesli and new appear- 
ance. Velvet cannot be ironed on a talde, as when spr<'a(l out 
on a hard sid'^lance the iron will nut go smoothly over the 
pile (jr shag. 

Another wav, is to heat a sm''«>tlMoir iron, aral Uieii to rover 



WASHING. 



31 



it with a wet cloth and hold it U7idtr the velvct—passmg it to 
and fro beneath. For this process, the velvet must be stretched 
over a vacant space between two tables, and w(dl secured to 
each, by weights or something- that will keep it tast. The va- 
j)our arising from the heated iron and the wet clotli, will raise 
the pile of the velvet, while, at the same time, another person 
brushes it uj) with a whisk. 

Velvet has greatly the advantage of all other silk fabrics in 
the facility with which it can be joined, or sewed toirether 
withoci leaving any external appe-arance of the seam. 



TO THON SILK. -—Silk cannot be ironed smoothly so as 
to j)re^,s out all the creases, without first sprinklinrr it with 
water and rolling it up tightly in a towel— letting it rest for an 
hour or two. If the iron is the least too hot it will injure 
the colour, and it should first be tried on an old piece of the 
Siune silk. 

JJriottt c, IcMova silks or ribbons, such ;is pinks, bin. s, yel- 
lows, greens, \:c., always change colour on the application of 
an iron, lilacks, browns, olives, grays, tVc. (r(-m>rally look 
\(Ty Well after ironiuLr. 

Silks should always Ix^ ironed r.n the wrono- side. 



TO SHHINK NKW rLA\\K[,.-\.w flannel should 
always be shrunk or washed befi)re it is made up, that it may 
be cut out more accurattdy, and that the urease which is n.ed 
111 manufacturing it may l)e extracted. First, cut olj' ttie h.^t 
along th.' selvage edges n[ the wlnde pi. ce. Then put it into 
warm (but not boiling) water, without x.ap. Ihnin ;it ,,ne end 
<d the piece, and rub it with both hands till you nnnv. to the 
f'therend. This is to get out the grease, aud the blue witli 
will ii n,.u w hue tiannel is always tm-e I. '{'h; n do the .ame 



? 



• i 



32 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



I 



i 



U>. 



through another water. Rinse it throiifrh a clean lukewarm 
water; vvrinrr it h^no^thways, and stretch it well. In hanoino- 
it out on a line do not suspend it in festoons, but spread it alonj^ 
the line strai<j;hl and l(>n^;thways. if dried in festoons, the 
ed<M>s will hti in ur*'at scollops, makinLr it very dilTicult to 
cut out. it must be dried m the sun. When dry, let it bo 
stretched j^von, clappod with the hands, and rolled up tirrht and 
snn)otlilv, till wantt d. 



yWOTIIKli WAV.— If the llannel is intended for petticoats, 
cat it at nnvv into the re<juisite number of breadths, as it can 
then he shrunk with much more convenience than when in one 
lonir piece. For other llannel articles of dress, it is well, hotore 
shrinkiii'j, to divide it into as many straiii^ht pieces as the thing 
to he iHcidc; will allow. 

Lav tlic thumrl ail niirht in a tul) of cold soft water. Jn the 
moriiiii'.!- pour otfihc \\ho!e of tlie wat« r, :\nd drain but do not 
\\rin;4- tlio Ihiiuui, M;iko a li(j;ht sudr, i^t wutcr (piiio w.niii, 
(hi;; not hot,') and of white soap or uiiilish Castili!. Wash 
the tlauntl thorouirhly thr(.'U^rii this suds, and wriarr it out 
as dry as possible. Then hav!n<jr sliaken it, strotchfnl it, and 
fuhlftl it smoothly down on a clean table to make it straight 
and even, \\:\\\[r it oiit immcdiatfdy . \\ hou about li.ill dry, ixo 
to it, strclcb, shak(>, and turn it. 'i'ake it in wiiile it is still 
damj>, f )ld it smooth, rovt^r it with a clean towel, and alter it 
b i.-i lain half an hour, iron it with a rather cool iron. 

We consulor this tiie best vvav of shrinking new flannel. 



TO WASH FLANXET..— Flamifl shouhl always be 
washod uith white soap : othcruiso, it wi!l neitijcr IcmR wM 
ii<>r leol sO'ft. 'i'hc \\;iter mir.4 ix' warm but not h'lilia'j. a^ it 



shriiih 



I'.nmcl to seahl it. Wash it in ciran water, and 






w Asm N o. 



31 



entirely by itself. Rub the soap to a strong lather in the water, 
before the flannel is put in; for if the soap is rubbed on the 
llann.d itseli; it will become hard and stiii; Wash it in this 
manner through two warm waters, witli a strong lather in each. 
Rinse It in another warm water, with just sutficient soap in it 
to give the water a slight w^iitish appearance. To this rinsing 
wat(T yon must add a little blue from the indigo bag. Cold 
rinsing Mater is found to harden the flannel. Wiien yon have 
rinsed it tiioroughiy, wring it hard, shake it well, and spread 
it out on the clothes-line. W'hile drying, shake, stretch, and 
turn it sevend times, it should dry slowly. 

Flannel a/uufi/s w^ashed precisely in this manner, will look 
white and (V;el soft as long as it lasts, retaining a new appear- 
anre and scarccdy slirinking at all But if oner, badly washed 
with scalding water, ru!)bed with brown soap, and rinsed in 
cold water, it will never again look well. 

If yon are willing to take the trou})le, fbmnel washed ac- 
cording tu the above receij)!, ua!l look beautiiully if j)ut into a 
dry chran sheet or towel while it is wrunir, and alterwarda 
(while drying) held between two persons and shook all the 
time, '['bis may be worth while for very fine new flannel, or 
such as is worn by infants. It is often })ractis(>d in the south, 
wherf- servants are numerous. 



1 



I 



WOOLi.KX ST()(:KL\GS.»-These are to be done as fast 
as possil)le, and washed precisely in the same manner as flannel. 
It is best tu dry them on the boards macb- for the purpose in 
the shape of legs and f<-et, ov«-r wlii(di tin' stockings ar(3 to be 
stretched to ke( j. them f>om shrinking. The boards aro to bo 
hung up l,y a string to th(^ clothes line. If you have no boards, 
stretch arid pull the stockings when half dry. 



I! 






34 



THi: HOUSE BOOK. 



Hii 



BLACK WORSTFJ) STOCKINCiS. — Thrsf sbmild 
•al\v;iys he washed before they are worn. Lay them ;'.ll niijiht 
to sriak in cold walrr. Wash them nexl day by tiieinseivf^s, 
througb two waters, warm, but not hot, the soap beingr previ- 
ously rubbed into the water so as to torni a lather before the 
stijckiriLTS are put in; and mixing with the first waiter a ta!)le- 
spoonful of iralL Then rinse tliem, first in lukewarm water, 
and lh(,'n in several ditlrrfnt cold waters, til! the dyr- eeases to 
come out, and the last wati;r is colourless. Siretch ib^m, and 
hanir iluMii out immediattdy in tlie air, to dry as fast as j)ossii)lf. 
'V\\>'\\ iron th."m on the wmnir side. 

Any dark-coloured worsted stockinfjs may be waslied m this 
nianntr. When you haiiir them out, il is wfdl always to stretch 
tliem on drying boards. 



WOOLLKX YAKX.— After the yarn is spun, whether 
white, 'jray, or <-M!our<'(L it slunihi bt^ well wash,)^'i t'l lo^l out 
ail thr irreaso that mav rtMuam \\i tlie wool. 1l uiust be donu 
in soft uat*T- made warm l)!it not hot; -allowinLr to cacli bucket 
(d' water, a lartrf; t(^a-cupful of lye. Lse no soap; but w;;sh 
the yarn thrianrh two warm waters with lye in ea(di. Next 
rinse it thromrh several cold waters, till the last comes r)tf iiiiite 
clean; and tiu^i S])read it out to dry, as open as po>silde. 

All Wiiollen yarn siiould be washed both ueiore and alter 
dveintr: the first wasbinc- to remove the (rrease ; tlu^ S(M-ond. t.) 
prevent the colour from rul)bin(r ot]'. 



TO WASH TlLANKKl^S.—The best time f^r wa^biiu/ 
blankets is 'in the summt r, when the days ar-" al itie loioo-,t. 
It is well to commenre them early in tho monnri'^-, that tley 
mav he dry by evemiuLT, and tliey should be done in clear 
bright weather. Washing blankets is very Liljurious vvoik for 



I 



^1 



WASHING. 



35 



women, and in the country they arc sometimes done by servant 
men. in this case, the first suds may be put into a clean bar- 
rel, and win n the blanket is (piite steep(^d, the man may Ixiat 
it with a lar<re wooden beetle. Or if it is in a tub, lie may 
step in and trample ttie !)lanket with his feet. Tiiis is a rou-.-h 
\N ay i)ut a irood one. 

Lhinkets should always be v»'as}ied one at a time; first in 
a stromr suds; then in weaker suds; and tlien a third time 
thiiHigh another suds (puile weak. Wrinir them sliohtly ; puil 
them as sfrai^rht and even as you can, and then hantr ihem up 
in the sun to drip, if not (juite dry at (n'eninn-, take thoia 
down from the line, f .Id them, juit them into a larne basket, 
and next day (if the. weather is clear) hano them out anain. 
\\ thc^ day is damp or cloudy, ,|ry tluMii m the hous(\ F\dd 
them smoothly, and put them awav m a larin- cliest, sprink- 
lin(„r tiihacco httwo. n the f.lds, or 1 ayinn; bits of camphor 



.Ol.ioiifr thciii, 



'I'O WASH CLOl'H CLOTHLS.— Li economical fami- 
fies it is \-ory ciisiomary to have the (doth .-oats and pantaloons ' 
ol the ixenth'men converted into ja(diets an<l trovvsrrs f>r little 
boys; previous to which it is prot)er that thev should adv.-avs i 
be washed. 

Inrush them well before washinn-. h is best to rip out th.^ 
pockets of the pantaloons, and also the lininn-s of the waist- 
h;i!ids, lest they slu)uld eo^mmiinicate lint to the cloth. Wash 
them tlirou'^rh two warm latii.rs oj" brown soap (sr.fl soap is 
best) with a half tea-ciiptul ot lyo m tli.> first suds. Do not 
wnno- tlM>tn; hut pull aiul strrUdi thom well, and roil Uwin uj) 
ti^-ht, and press out the wat<'r aoamst the washiri(r-hr,ar<l. or 
a<rainst the sido r.f the tub. Then lay them (rolled up) on a 
clean table, and press and siiuetze out the remainino- sud:* 



i 



r 



3G 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



I'^' 



seltincr a tub underneath to catch the droppincrs. Afterwards, 
rinse them in two ii^rht hithers (a litth; warm) rollincr ihem up 
and pressinix out the water, as heibre, alter eaeii rinsin<r. 
W'rinjrin^ in tiie usual way will cause thein to be shrivelhul 
and streaked. When all the water has been pressed out, stretch 
and pull them well, and han<r them up by the waistband on a 
clothes-line. When pi-rh'ctly dry, sprinkle them, roll them 
very tiL(ht in a thick damp towel, and let them lie all ninht. 
Iron them on thn wron«r sidt^ till they are pcrftctli/ dri/, (other- 
wise they may still shrivel. 

Pantaloons and w.iistcoats of li<rht cassimere must be washed 
in suds of white soap without any lye; and in linsinjr them 
the lathers should be very li<j:ht, the last one scarcely imtrcd 
with soap. Iron them on the rinht side, and place a thin fine 
cloth between them and the iron, which nuist be rather cool 
than h.ot. 



TO WASH A WOOLI.llN TA lIMv* '()V KH.— A hnula 
windy day is best for this jiurpose. Ilavinnj first taken out all 
the jrrease-spots and stains, put the table-cover into a tuh with 
a ( lean siids of white soap and clear water, warm, but not hot, 
(in which has been mixed about two table-spoonfuls of ox- 
rrall.l and wash and siiueeze it. well. Then wash it throu.rl, 
a second lather somewhat weaker, of soap, but wathoui any 
•rail in it. Afterwards rinse it throucrh a liirht lukewarm suds, 
just tinir<>(l with soap. Instead of wrin^nnnr, (which will shnv< 1 
It,) press out as nuu-h of the wat«'r as you can with your hands ; 
then f .1(1 it up in a \\<jhi lonir fold, and roll and pross it hard 
with b.)th liands on a «'l(;an ironing tabic, havmo; srt a tub to 
catch the water that drips from it durincr the ])roress. Holl it 
always from you, towards the md of the tahle. When the 
water ceases to couio frtMo it. shake ami sU.'t.jh it woll ; and 



WASHING. 



37 



dry it as soon as possible; but not by the tire. Co to it fre- 
quently while dryincr, and stretch and shake it. While it i<? 
yet damj), takt; it in, spread it on an ironing sheet, and iron it 
on the wrong side, pressing it hard. 

if there is grease on the table-cover, it is best, the day before 
washinir, to cover all the spots with scraped Wilmington clay 
wet to a stitr paste w^ith a little water, repeating the clay till 
the grease coiues out. Or you may remove them with very 
clear spirits of turj)entine, put on with a sponge. To the stains, 
if there are any, you may apply hartshorn weakened with a 
little water. 



A WOOT.LEX SHAWL.-This may be done precisely 
neeording to the above receipt, taking care to pull and stretch 
the fringe well, while drying. After ironing, the appearanc(> 
of the shawl will be improved by f .Iding it smoothly, and 
pressing it for a few days between a hed and the sar-kin-j-. 

In huyinir a piaid or tartan shawl, avoid dioosing one that 
has any white in it. Even tiie smallrst portion of white (Jm 
instance, two or three threads in the hgure) will, by immediat«dy 
showing the dust, give the shawl (though almost new) a dirty, 
dingy appearance. 



TO WASf[ (M)[.0[:UED OHESSKS. — Havo re , (y 

plenty of eb-an sofY water. It spoils coloured dresses to wash 
tiieai in the dirty suds left of white clothes; tliourr], tlii< is a 
very eommon praa-tire with bad washers. Th,« waf. r must Im^ 
warm, hut hy no means hot, l^^t ,r injure the cohans. liu', 
soap enoun-h mto the water to make a stron<T lathor !>erMro you 
put in thechitity,, (adding a tahh'-spoonful r.f r.x-uall,) and then 
wash It well. F(,r the seeonrl water, pat it into another soaj)- 
suds, cuider and \^ a'aker, ;ind wash i! tiir.ao'b liiat. TIhti tbrow 






:\s 



Tiin HOUSE BOOK. 



the dress into pure cold water, and rinse out all the 3oap 
Lastly, put ir into a second rinsing water, vAxh a viry litile 
blue tVoni the iiuliiro hair in it, and a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol 
or a handful of salt lo st;l tiie colours. Wrincr it well. 

Have ready a larofe parthen pan filled with weak starch tinged 
with a little blue. Painted lawns or muslins will be much 
improved by mixing a little gum arable water witli the starch : 
lur instance, a table-spoonful. Put ilie dress into it, and run 
it thrr.egh the standi, 'i'hen squeeze it out, open it well, clap 
It, and hang it imnifMliatoly out to dry in the shade ; taking the 
sleeves by the cutis and pinning tliem up to the skirt, so as to 
spread thtrn wide and cause them to dry the sooner. 

If coloured clothes continue wet too long, no precaution can 
prevent the colours from running into streaks, 'J'his will cer- 
tainly happen if they are allowed to lie in the waiter. They 
must always be d(jne as fast as possible, till the whole })roces9 
is completed. If the colours are once injured, nothing can r(^- 
store them; but by good management they may ahv.iys be 
preserved, unU'ss in coarse low })riced calicoes; and many ot 
ihtrn wash perfectly well. 

As soon as the dress is (piile dry, take it in ; but, unless it is 
wanted immediately, do not sprinkle it, lest in lying damp the 
colours should be impaired. It should not hv. sprinkh-d ovrr 
night, if not lo l)e ironed till next day. When perfectly dry, 
roll it up in a large (dean towel, and put it away by itself till 
two or three hours before you iron it. 

( 'hint/es, ^'c, sliould alw;iys l»e washod in fine wi^ather : 
but if it is intensely cold, it is better to dry them at the fire 
than to risk tlie spoiling of the colours from their free/mg in 
the op(^n air. But it is still better to defer their washing till 
the weather is sufficiently moderate to allow them to be hung 
out of doors. 



\ 



WASHING. 



39 



Take care not to use too much oil of vitriol, lest it corrode the 
dress and cause it to drop in holes. If you can procure pyro- 
ligriiNuis arid or vinegar r.f wood, a large spr)orifiil of that may 
be used to set the colours without any risk of injury. 

In laying by muslin or chintz dresses till next senson, Irt 
them be washed and dried, but noither starched nor ironed :t 
but roll up .nich dress clos(dy in a linen tow(>]. If put away 
dirty or with any starch in them, they will te;ir or crack wb.en 
you do them up auain. 

I^ran water is excelh-nt for washing light calico dresses. 
Boil a suOiciency of wheat bran in a large kettle ; strain otl" the 
watpr, and use it f^:,r the dress, cooling it to a lukewarm heat 
with a little cold water. It will require no soap, and u ill pre- 
vent the colours from running. Wash the dress through two 
bran waters. Then rinse it in cold water. ' 

Another way of setting the colours of a dress, is to grate 
ein-ht raw potatoes and mix them with a Lrallon of mid waK r. 
5'nf n portion of thn potato mixtur. into each of the waters 
through which you wash the dress. 

Aiiother way, (for a light coloured dress,) is to tie up in two 
muslin bags a half-pint of rice, and boil it in two quarts of 
water till perfectly soft. Mix the rice waJer with tliat which 
you use for the dress. 7'ake no soap, but rub on the nee m 
tlic hags, using one for the first, and one for the second wal.T. 



MOTPMNG (^HIXTZ, OR VFRY D ARK rAIJfY).__ 

P.it into a tub some eb^ar soft wator, (warm, but not hot.) and 
mix with it a table-spof>nful of r,x-gall to set tho mlnxix. 
'i'hcn rub in sufficient sr.ap to make a stropLr lather. Vn\ in 
the dress, and having wasbod it well, wring it out, and pr( pare 
•a second tub of clean water, (not so warm as the Hrst,) with 
iiiiotbcr fa!.!c-spoonniI nf ox-gal! stirred into it, and a weaker 



'* 



40 



TIIK 11 U l! H i: BO'>K. 



W A S H I N O. 



4i 



11 



lather of sonp. Wash the dress lhroii<rh this; rinse it \vf 

A\n<r into the last a iian(it\il of 



tiiroiKrh two cold waters, (put 



Bait,) and wriJin- it out iiiinit'i 



liattdy. No ct)loured dress must 



on any aceoun 
cause the eoloi 



t l)e left lyinn; in the water, as it will certainly 
irs to run into streaks. 



Havinn; wruiu!: 



the tlress out of the rinsing water, starch it 
iuiuH'diat(dY, and then dry it in the shade. By inakin<r the 
h with coihM- instead of water, you will prevent the whitish 



Stan 



look which is often so disULnirin*4 



to dark or niourninLr chintzes, 



;hed. Vou may use for this purpose c 

th 



after they arc wa; 

tliat has hct-n hdt at hreakfast. Strain the cotlee, and mix tlie 



th 



stare 



h with it in the usual rnanni^r, pressing out all the lumps 



with the back of the spoon, and makmg it very 



smoo 



th, 



low 



about a table-spoon 



ful of raw starch to a pint of litjuid colfee, 



lioi! it w(dl, and to prev( 



■nt stickiness, stir it while boiling with 



the end nf a spermact 



V With It a lui 



up of ^porin 



ti candle; or, what is still betier, boil 

1 (;d)out tho size of a small chesnut) 



\cct 



broken < 



df t 



rnui 



tho boitop) ot a candie 



\\ hen the staroh h.is boilci, juit it to co'.d in a larrr 



h 



(TO dre!> 



cartht>n j;an, and [ 



i pass the dross througli it; seeintr that every 



pnrt iud)ibes \\w. starch thoroughly. i hen s.pieeze mil thi 
dress, open it wtdl, (dap it, and han<j it to dry m the shade 
When dry, roll it up tightly ; but do not sprinkle it, unless you 
■Arc rr«'ing to iron it in twuj or tlireo lio 



roMiain < 



lamp tfto long may cause the C( 



I 

urs. 


as 


allow ii 


ours 


to 


SI) read 



i<r It to 



It is well nol lu was 



h a coloured dress exe.pl on a fine day 



when it cm be hunn- out and drieil at once. 1} 
lutely nrce-;sary to \va>h ou'^ in extremely cold we 
bf>lter to dry it bv tlu^. tirr than to hang it out of d 



ut it It IS abso- 



ather. It 1- 



oors, as Ireez- 



lllir will cir! 



■t.'.'in'ij \.\i\o the colours 



d. 



., o 



,oured thiiers should <m iid rfni^u 



Icrntion be boile<L scahhd 



or put into hnf water: neitlier, as we have said, should th.ey be 
allowed to remain long in any w^ater. 



A tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol, or a table-spoonful of pv 



ro- 



ligneous acid, (vinegar of wood,) or a handful of salt mixed 
in the last rinsing water, will assist greatly in setting the 
colour. 

Another way (and a very good one) oi' stifreruiur a (birk 
chii'.tz, is to use glue instead of startdt ; allowing a piect^ of 
glue about as large as the j)alm of your hand, to three spiarts 
or a o-;illon of soft watrT, accordiu" tr) tiu^ deirfpe of stiflbess 



you d( SI 



re 



KavirifT boiled the (jhu; in the water, till it is en 



tirely dissolved, b.'t it become lukinvarm, 'dud then jiass t}i< 



d.i-ess thrr.unr 



h it. 



si|ueezing it we 



Th 



en dry it as fist as 



possible; and \\hvx\ dry, roll it up litjhtly, but do not sprinkle 
it, unless you intend to iron it in two or three hours. 

In ironinir a eiiintz d.ress, do tlie skirt on the wron'j side, and 



as muidi of the sleev 



es as you can con\ cnientiy 



Tl 



le !)0(iy 



an 



liwr I, arts oi tiie sleevt s cannot hr iroiH 



(! o[!e;r\\i>e 



an 



(»n the rii'-Jif side; but, to prevent th* ir loiikintr yla/A', «:prend a 
thin wdiite handktT(diief smoothly and evenly between them 
and the iron, changing its place as you proceed. ' 



A MERIXO DRKSS OR A MOrsSKUNK Di; I, AIXK. 

— 'I'ake the dress (entirely apart, if there are any pb'ats in it ; 
as nothin<r tliat is made with jdeats can eitluT be washed or 
ironed to look well. I. est any of them should be lost, t,irk a'! 
the small pieces togetiicr with aiieedie and tiiread. Shak-- and 



brusli th'^ dress to re 



move w 



withm the jdeafs or (jatiiers. 



}iat« 
M 



ver ( 



lust 



ma.y l!av«> 



>n 'fM 



iKe a strono- iathrr w itli \n Into 



so,a 



p and soft wat»T, (uarm, but not hot,) and stir into it a hirge 
tal'le-spoonful of ox-gall. W'.isli tluMuerino well throiodi tins, 
and then w ring it out. Have ready a second and much ligiifer 






42 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



WASHING. 



43 



suds, made with very little aoap, and water not more than 
lukewarm ; acKliiiir a handful of 8aU, or a yniall tea-s})oetnfu] 
of oil ol"vitri(d, ll' the eolour of the dress is lij^ht, er hrijrht, 
(if very delicate, the vitriol will he the hest. »Salt will answer 
well (iiounh for a dark or i)lain coloured merino. llavin>r 
washed the dress w(dl throunh the secontl suds, wrin<r it 
very dry, shake it out, and pull and stretdi u sirai^-ht and 
evtni. ft must not !)«■ rinsed. Hang- it out immediatoly to 
(iry, jiinniuiX ;iil tlie picrt's eartM'ulIy to the \nn\ Ik.t'oro it is 
quite dry, (when you fmd it what is ealltid inmin^-dd/n/)^) 
iAic it in, iold it smoothly without Rprinklin>r, and let it rost 
fur about a <|uartfr of mi hour wraj)j)ed in a clean towcL 
'J'ht. n liiive^ your irons rtMdy, and iron it on tiie wrong side, or 
the side that is to he the wronnr one when the dress is put 
loofetlur airain. 

t> Wash a chaly in ihe same manner; and a hombazine also, 
cxccjit th-.'.i tor a black iKimlj'.r/ine it is best to j)ut a tea-cuj^ful 
oi' lyo in t!io i\r>\ s\\i\> raliu'f linn to use ()\-i<,j[l. 

Dri'Sbos that leave anv wool or worsU'd should nut be under- 
taken, md<'ss ihey can b(; waslied and Ironed at once; as re- 
ma.iiiiuu" dani|) will shrink and siirivd them. 

Inli ^s the vvaddintr of a merino clnak (ir pelisse has boon 
hastt'd b( l\ve( ri /?/■'/ linings, it will be found scarcely possible 
(rv( n witli washiug) to remove; tlu> downy j>articies <>{ ,-(.ttMii, 
tliat will ;u]1m re to J!ie inside w hon the nn rino is taken apart 
Jo be turned. Tberelnre, we recommend always a diaible 
liniu"-, the inner one of sonnihing very thin and >liglit. 



A 1\\I\'rr;l) MTSUN I)Hi:SS.— Mak<- a bitb( r r.iulilto 
soap and iukew .trm watiT, and wash the dress caretully through 
It. Then iniNft i! tbrough two cf)ld waters. You may put iiito 



the last a small toa-spoonful of oil of vitriol to set the colours, 
or a table-spoonful of pyroligneous acid ; (vinegar of wood.) 

Spread the dress well out, and hang it immediately to dry, 
but not in the sun. 

For the stilfening, pick and wash a pint and a half of rice, 
and boil it an hour in a gallon of clear soft water. Then strain 
the rice-water into a clean bucket or a dee]) earthen pan. Pass 
the dr»'ss well through the r!c<'-\vater, and then s(juee/<^ it is 
dry as you can. ibj not elap it, l)ut open and stretch it out \a 
evf^ry part as wtdl as pos>ibU'. 

]■ ix up two lines, at a convt^nient distance from each other, 
(they may be of stout twine or new tape,) and pin the. dress 
across boib lines, so that it may hang sjiread mjm'u between 
them, \\ bile drying, go to it fre(juently, pull it both ways, 
and stretch it even all over. 

Having j)ulled and stretched it thoroughly, sprinkle it 
sliubtly, and roll it up in a clean tow.d. Do not let it remain 
longer tbau an beur \\ ithiMi! iroiiinij'. 

ll tiieff- is any tbiter about it that is lo pull" out, doidde ibe. 
lull ])art along the middle, and iron it as you would a "-alhered 
r utile. 



A HOOK MCSIJN DRKSS.— A dress of book muslin, 
it always w(dl done up, will not require frecjueni wasbin-^r. In 
buying a new one, avoid getting suidi muslin as has a blueish 
cast. It is very unbecoming to every <-omplexion; and n.>ver 
lofd^s well till after it has Ix^en wasbed. When a ^(x^d white, 
it IS b<ist to wear it a itw times betore it is washed. Tluy 
require much care in doin«r un. 

Make a .strong >U(ls uitii white soap and v\arm water. Put 
in the dress, and v\a>b it well ; squee/.ing aed pressing rather 
than ru!)hing it ; as ixj-tk muslin tears ea-^ily, and, without rrrcat 



m 



44 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



W ASHING 



45 



care, will not last lon^. Wash it through a second suds, and 
then p'.iss it throucrh two rinsing waters ; adding rz 1^77/ //7//c 
blue to the lust. Then open out the dress; and, while wet, 
run it through a thin starch, diluted with water either warm or 
fold. Stretch it, and hang it in the sun to drv. Afterwards, 
sprinkle it and roll it up in a clean fine towel ; letting it lie i'or 
half an hour or more. Then op« n it or.t, str(>tch it even, and 
chip it in your hands till clear all over. Have irons ready, and 
ir^ri) it !>efore it is too dry, on the wrong s.ule, whenever prac- 
licubh;. Take c.ir(^ that the irons are not too hot, as it will 
scorch easily. When done, do not fold the dress, but hang it 
u{) in a commode or wardrobe. 

In ifonin^, be very careful to get the hern even. Many per- 
sons, previous to having them whsIumI, rip out tbr hems ot their 
thin muslin dresses, afterwards running thorn nvcr again. This 
is a good plan, if you are willing to take the trouble; whieii, 
however, is not much. 



COLD OI{ SILVKR MlSLrN.—Tliese muslins sliould 
not be worn till they are much soiled, as <hey nnist be washed 
very delleately. first taking them ai)art. Make- a strong lather 
(if hltf^red or very clear soft water, and fine whit(> so;ip m whieh 
tliere must be no p(^rfunie. T1h> water should be warm, but lu.'t 
hot. Then with your hands turn the muslin about in it til! it 
is thoroughly saturated with the suds, Sijueeze it well, but do 
not vvrinir it. Repeat this through two otlnr lathers, each a 
little weaker arul cooler. Then rinse it lightly through two 
wat(-rs ; s(iueeze ii, shake it out, open it well, ami hang it in 
the sun to dry as fust us pi.'ssiltle. When you iron it, have a 
Imen ('loth over the blanket; take a rather rool iron, and go 
over it earefully on the wrong side; yet unless the sj)rigs of 
g"M are very small, it is best not to iron it at all, but to stretch 



it well in every part. You may brighten each sprig by rubbing 
every one se])arately wiih a bit of white or crimson velvet of 
the best ([uality. Tnless the velvet is very good, and dyed 
in grain, the colour may come ofT and leave a stain around each 
sprig. The trouble of burnishing the gold in this manner, will 
be repaid by its increased brightness. 

A dress of gold or silver muslin should be kept carefully 
folded and pinned up in a linen cloth. 

As in the stores you can buy only what is called a dress 
pattern, eonsisting of a limited number of y.irds, it is well 
when you purchase one of these muslins, to send at once a 
sampb' to India, with an order for a sufTieient quantity for 
a new body and sleeves when the make of the first is no longer 
fashionable. 

Another way of brightening the flowers of gold or silver 
nmslin, is to rub every sprig with a bit of fine white flannel 
slightly wet with warm spirits of v.ine, replacing; the bit of 
flannel very frefpit ntly by a clean oru». 



I'O (T.KAN G(>1J) [.ACK.— -liurn some roche alum; 
then ])owd(T it very fine and sift it. Dij) a clean soft brush 
into tlu^ povvd(ved alum, and rub the gf)ld luce with it. At^ter- 
wards wipe it with a clean soil flannel. Gold embroidery may 
be bri(rhtened in the same manner. 



TO WASH TH-ATK SH. K.—To a siifllcient quantity <«f 
ox-irall add enouirh of boiliiur water to make it warm. Siuead 

r~-* -^ r^ £ 

out the silk o^n a large kitchen table, and dijijtinfr a c\>;\n spo(i</o 
in the (_rall, <jro over the wlude (4' the article with it, on both 
si<b^s. 'I'hen sque(>7e it well out, and rrjx^at the a})plicalion ef 
the snon^T-(\ havinc added morn boilin*'' water to the gall so as 
to lu^at it again. Rinse tln^. silk in clear cold water, and repeat 



46 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



WASHING. 



the rinsintr (ehanfring the water each time) till the lost water 
appears perfectly clean. Then stretch it, and dry it quickly in 
the air, and afterwards pin it out on a tahle. 

'Vo oive it the consistence of new silk, dissolve in boilincr 
water a little ^rlue or jrurnarabic; mix it with sufficient cold 
water, and spon<Te the dress all over vvitli it. 'J'his must he 
done on the wroncr side. Then dry it, sj)rinkle it slightly, and 
roll it up ti^rbtly in a towel : let it lie a few hours, and then iron 
it, takmir care that tlie iron is not too hot, as silk scorches very 

easily. 

You may perfume the last application of ox-gall by niixinir 

with it a little musk. 

Unless the silk is of very frood quality, it will not be worth 
whih; to take the trouble of washing it. 

Previous to washing a black silk dress, rip the skirt from 
the body, and the slet ves from the arm holes. 

A bombazine dress may he washed in the same manner, but 
afiei wa.^hint', it nuisl not !)(■ siilb'U'j'i. 



BISHOP'S LAWN.™ l*ut it into a lather of hot soap-suds, 
(white Castile soap is hest,) and wash it through that and a 
second water of the same. Then boil it a (juarter of ;ia hour. 
Whrn you take it out of the boil, rinse it in warm water, and 
then throw it into old water and rinse it. Afterwards put it 
intoanother rinsing water, very slightly tinged with blue. Have 
ready some thin starch, in which mix a little gum arahic water, 
in the pr<>j)()rti(;n of a tahle-spoonful of gum water to a }Unt ol 
starch. The gum arahic usrd t(ir tins purpose should he ul tin; 
whitest and finest kind,;'nil pulven/cd hefnre putting it into tlie 
water, which sln)uld he warm. It must he preparvd tho day 
before ; or, rather, it is well to keep a hottle of gum arahic watt c 
always in the house, as it is useful for many ])urposes. 



47 



Put the starch into a large earthen pan, and pass the lawn 
through it, S(jueezing it well. Then stretch, clap, dry, and iron 
it. It will have the appearance of new lawn. 

Fine lawn or cambric handkerchiefs should be w^ashed in this 
manner, making the starch very w^eak. 



FINE BROWN UNEN.— Brown French linen of very 
fine quality, is frequently used for ladif^s' travelling dresses in 
the sumuHT, and for gentlemen''s round jackets. To prevent it 
from fadinfj, it slnadd he waslie.l with hay, as should also 
brown holland aprons and petticoats. Two large liandfuls of 
liay will suH'ice for one dress. Wash the dress hrst in cold 
watfT, without any soaj) ; having first boiled tlie hay in sulfi- 
cient water to cover it well. When the hay h;\s boiled hard 
for half an hour, strain oiV the water, and dilute it with cold 
water, till it becomes nearly the colour of nr.w brov/n linen. 
Then wash the dress in it, still without soap, having saved 
S"t!ie oi'tlie hay-uater for rinsing. K*inse it througli two iiay- 
A\aters, and in the last put a table-spoonful of pyroliirnpous 
acid, or vinegar of wood, (tu he obtained at the druggist's,) or 
a small tea-snoonful of oil of vitriol. Hanir the dress out im- 
mediately to dry in the shade; and when dry, do not sprinkle 
it, unless you intend to iron it the same day. 

ProvidiMl that the ground is tea-coloured, olive, drab, or palo 
brown, any chintz or painted muslin may be washed to great 
advantafre with bay. If there is white in the fiijure, the bay- 
water shr)ul(l be more diluted, and the rinsing-water sboiihl 
have none of the hay. 

Hay-watf'r is much employed by the French laundresses. 

The firu> brown grass-cloth used for travelling dresses and 
lionnets, should be washed with hay; and squeez(Mi rather than 
rubbed. 



'\9 



'^ 



# 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



WASHING. 



45F 



WASHING A (UiNGIlAM 1U)NNET.— A. drawn or 

sherred uiugharn bonnet may be washed without opening the 
oasintrs or takinnr out the cane or wlndebone; but it is best to 
np oil" the irilling, bows, and strings, and vvasii and iron them 
in the usual way. Tiie bonnet, divested of its trimmino-, 
should then be |)iaoed on a wooden bonnet-bbock, (if you have 
(jtie,) otiierwise stretcli the crown on the bottom of an inverted 
stniuj jar. Tiien make a lather of white soap and lukewarm 
water, (addino- u iea-s])00uful of o-all to set the; colours,) and 
witli a cU-'dn brush (a new toolh-i.Tush will do) iro carefully 
over tlu; whole of the bonnet, wasbin<r well in between iho 
cases. Repeat this with a second clean suds, but without <L(ail, 
and then rinse it olf with clear cold water put on with a clean 
sponi]i:e (»r a soft whiUi ra<T. Tiie bonnet must then be imint di- 
ately set out in the air, and dried ui)on tiie block (»r jar; goin(T 
to it occasionally and stretchinir and pullin^r Uu? brim to make 
it dry, str;i.iuht, and rvm. Then liavinn- waslnnl, starclied, and 
iron, d the trimmiii'is, put thtin anaiu on tlic- boiuuL. 

A white cambric muslin bonnet mny be washed in the same 
manner. 



NANKKKN. — To prevent nankeen from fadintr, the colour 
should 1)0 set when it is (piite nt^w, in the j)iece, before it is 
m;uh'. up. 'I'o do this, put some (rcjod oak or liickory ashrs 
into a cb'an barnd or l)ucket, and pour on suilicicnt s(.ft water 
\n make a moderately strrini;^ lye. Then draw or strain it oil", 
very clear, into a t'.ib. Lav liio piec(; ol' irankren in the tub of 
Ive, ;!nd b t it remain all ni'jiit. Next day wriuir it f;ut, (w ilh- 
oiit rinsinir.'", and dry it in the slr,ub\ \\ Inn dry, sprinkli! it, 
roll it up, and iron it. \\ <; havt; sec'n nankeen thus soriked in 
lye while (juite m;w, retainin<r its full colour til! the article 
made of it was worn out. 



In washinor nankeen, after it has been worn, take care not to 
have the water too hot. Use soft soap for it, in preference to 
hard. Wash it throu<rh two lathers, pnttintr a tea-cifpful of 
lye into the first. Rinse it through two waters wnth a slight 
tinge of soap in each. Iron it on the wrong side. 



FURNITURE CllINTZ.—The articles of furniture chintz 
that you intend washing, must be taken apart, and the dust 
well sliaken out of each piece. 

Boil some rice (in the proportion of two pounds of rice to 
two gallons of water) till quite soft. Strain it from the kettle 
into a tub, and let it stand till about the warmth generally used 
for coloured cottons. Then put in the chintz and wash it till 
all the dirt appears to be out, using instead of sovip some of 
the l)oiled rice tied up in a muslin bag. 

In the mean time, have boiling the same quantity of rice and 
water as before ; but when it is done, strain it, and having tied 
the rice in a hiifr, put it in a tub of warm clear w^ater. Wash 
the chintz in this till you are sure of its being perfectly clean, 
still using the rice as soap. Afterwards, rinse; it in the water 
in which you boiled the last rice, (and which should be saved 
in a tub for the purpose,) mixing with the water a few spoort- 
fuls of pyroligneous acid. Stretch it even, and bang it on the 
lines to dry. After it is dry, stretch and fold it, spread it on 
an ironinfr-board, but instead of an iron, rub it all over on the 
right side with a smooth stone. 

It is siill better to have it luamrled in a machine, or 
calendered. 'i\he ofreater the o-loss, the lonrrer it will keep clean. 

('hintz bed-spreads should h(^ washed in this manner. 



SMALL MUSLLNS.— Soap the muslins the night before, 
and put them to soak in cold water. Next morning wash them 



1 1 



*h 



50 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



VV ASHING. 



51 



through two waters tolerably warm, using soap to each, and 
squeezing and pressing ratiier than rubbing them. Atter- 
wards s(|ueeze them immediately through a suds, as hot as you 
can bear your hand in, and let them lie about iive minutes in the 
hot lather. Then rinse them ; first through a moderately warm 
water, and then through a lukewarm water into which you 
have infused a very littk^ blue from tlio indigo bag. The tinge 
must be very slight, as too much blue will give them a very 
unn-enteel iouk. Siuieeze them well out of the last water, and 
spread them to dry. 

Have ready the starch, which should be made in the propor- 
tion of two table-spoonfuls of dry starch for about three capes 
and half a dozen single collars. The starch should be of the 
very best quality. Mix it in a bowl with sulhcient cold water 
to cover the starch, and with the back of the spoon press out 
all the lumps so as to make the starch perfectly smooth. Pour 
tlie mixture into a pint or a pint and a half of boiling water, 
in a clean skiUot or tin siiucrpaii. .Boil it woil f-.r h::if an 
hour: and when liall-btnicMl, stir n a monu'nt with the end (4 a 
new 8permac«;ti candle. Then strain it into a broad pan, and 
press into it the blue bag, just sulTicienlly to give it a slight tinge. 
When the muslins are dry, throw them into the starch, 
bcjueeze them out, dry them a little, '.md clap them between the 
palms of your hands (a small portion at a time) till they arc 
quite clear. It is best to clap them near an open window in 
summer, and in winter by th(^ fire, 'i'hcn pull them straight 
and even. 

When they are not quite tlry, but just damp enongh to iroii, 
have the irons ready, and lay a i\m' tlanrud (.i petticoat l(ir in- 
stance) on the ironing blanket. Spread the capo or collar upon 
It, covering it smoothly with a piece of (dd thin muslm, so that 
the iron may not exactly tuuch the article. 



When you lake the iron from the fire, rub it with a piece of 
bees-wax, and then wipe it quickly ; and before you use it for 
the muslin, smooth over a coarse towel with it. 

Then iron the capo or collar carefully on the wrong side, 
pressing out the scallops one by one. 

It the article lias no ornamental needle-work, but merely a 
plain hem or ruHle, ir(jn it on the right side. 

('lear-starching should always be done on a bright dry day. 
If tlie weather is damp and gloomy, the things will be too 
limber ;md of a bad c(d(;ur. 

The thicker the muslin, the less clapj)ing will be necessary. 

(/ollars or capes of bobbinet may be done up in this manner, 
also gauze or crepe-lisse. 

No articles of muslin or lace should (when out of use) be 
put aw-ay with starch in them. For instance, when laid aside 
during the term of mournini:, they should be soaked and 
washed clean; then well rinsed in plain col! water, stretched 
even, dried, and rolled uj), but not ironed. Aiterwards, put 
tJiern into an old j)i! low-ease or something of iho sort, or wrap 
them closely in a hue towel, keeping them in a safe place till 
they are wanttv! again for use. They will tiien require wash- 
ing in warm water, and whitenin;.r <">" th;; grass. After they 
are well bit ached, proct-cd to do them uj) as usual. \ 

If put away with starch in them, they will crack and split 
to pieces, v\hen you go to j)r(qiare them again for wearing. ^ 



HOIUUNKT OR COr'j'ON LA(^K.— Having nppod of)': 
trie lace, roll it round a Idack bniilc covered with \\hin> linen 
or muslin, sewed on smoothly. Tlien lill ttie br,tne with 
Wiiter; cork it tightly, and su-pend it with a strinir in a kettle: 
(jf cold soaj)-suds, made with ('astih' snnp. I]oil it mode- 
rat(dy till the lace looks pert'ectly white, which \t will in about 



52 



.THE HOUSE BOOK. 



WASHING. 



53 



1:^ 



11' 



an hour and a half. Then dram oil" the suds, and set the bot- 
tle in the sun, till the lace dries on it. 

When dry, have ready in a basin some very weak gum 
arable water, and pass the lace through it, squeezing it weli. 
Then stretch it out evenly, and clap it in your hands to 
clear it while drying. Lay it on an ironing-sheet, and iron it 
on the wrong side with rather a cool iron, taking care to press 
out ail the scollops. When you put it away, wind it round a 
ribbon block, which should be a little wider than the lace. 
Bobbinet quilling may be done up in the same manner. 

Care should be taken to have it no stiffcr than when new. 
Instead of quilling bobbinet lace, it will save much trouble 

to sew it on permanently, and flute it over a patent Italian iron. 

It should be gathered full, allowing thrice the quantity that 

would be sufficient to go round the collar if sewed on plain. 



THRIvM) I.ACH. Havinir ripped the laro from the article 

to which it was attached. ,M carefully picked out the loose 
bits of tiiread, roll the lacr, very smoothly and securely round 
a clean black bottle, which has been covered witli old white 
linen sewed on lightly. Tack each end of the lace with a 
needle and thread, to keei> it smooth ; and in wrapping it round 
the bottle, take care not to crumple or fold in any of the 
scollops or pearlings. Pour into a saucer some of the best 
sweet oil, and with a clean hit of sponge wet with it the lace 
thoroughly, after it is on the bottle. 1'!ie oil must penetrate to 
the inmost folds of the lace. 

Have ready in a wasli-kettle, a strong roA/ lather made of» 
very clear water and whito Castile soap. Having filled the 
bottle with cold wator to keep it from bursting, and corked it 
well, stand it upright in the suds, and tie a string round the 
neck, and secure it to the ears or handle of the kettle, to pre- 



i 



vent its knocking about and breaking while over the fire. Let 
it boil in the suds for an hour or more, or till the lace is clean 
and white all through. Then take it out, drain off the suds, 
and stand the bottle in the sun, for the lace to dry on it. When 
it is quite dry, remove the lace from the bottle, and roll it round 
a wide ribbon-block, if you have one ; otherwise lay it in long 
folds, place it witiiin a sheet of smooth white paper, and press 
it in a large book for a day or two. 

By this simph^ process, in which there is neither rinsing, 
starching, nor ironing, tiie lace will acquire the same consist- 
encr', transparency, and tint that it had when new, and the 
scollops at the ed^je, will come out perfectly even. We can 
safely recommend this as the best possible method of doing up 
thread lace, and as the only one whicii gives it a truly new 
appearance. 

It is well not to put the oil on the lace till the soap-suds is 
ready in the kettle, so that tlie bottle may go in immediately; 
as, if allowed to stand, much of the oil will run down and 
drip olT. r 

If you wish llie lace to look of a dead whifr^ and not to have 
the peculiar appearance of that which has never been washed 
'It all, omit the sweet oil ; but wind it on a bottle, boil it in 
.•;oap-su(ls, and dry it in tin? sun without rinsing, just as directed 
above. When dry, take it off the bottle and roll it on a ribbon- 
block till you want to use it. 



ANOTHKR WAV TO WASH LACIv—Oet a black 
bottle : a sfjuare one is best; for instance, the kind that is used 
for sarsaparilla. Sew all over it a piece of thick linen or cotton 
rag. Then wind the lace smoothly round the bottle, securing 
the ends, and taking care that no part of the edge is crumpled 
( r turned inward. Next, sew another pie-ce of rag all over the 



5* 



V- 1 



I- 
I 



' I 



'J!l' 



54 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



outside, so as entirely to cover the lace. Make a strong lather 
of white soap, and cold clear soft water, (filtered water is best,) 
and put it into a lar(re stone jar or crock, standing the bottle 
upright in the suds. Place the crock on a hot stove or over a 
charcoal furnace, and let it boil an hour or more. Then take 
out the bottle, throw away tlie suds, wash the jar, and till it 
with clear cold water in which you have mixed a table spoon- 
ful of starch. IJ*'plac«- the bottle, and let it again come to a 
boil. When you take out the bottle, remove the outside covtjr- 
ing, and let the lace dry on the under linen, placing it in the 
Bun. When dry, take it otT the bottle, and smooth it over with 
a cool iron, carefully pressing out each scollop of the edge. 

Some persons take the trouble to insert a little minikin pin 
m every loop or pearling along the extreme edge of the lace, 
fastening it to dry on a pillow. 1^his is to keep the loops open, 
so that Ihc edge may look as much as possible like new lace 
that has n»-ver been washed. 

It is well to kcry, iw.. bottles ready covered with linen, for 
the purpose of washing lace ; a large l>otile for broad lace, and 
a small one for narrow. 



WHITE SILK LACE OR BLOND.^Having sewed on 
a black bottle a covering of clean linen or thick muslin, wind 
the blond round it, (securing the ends with a needle and thread,) 
not leaving the edge outwar.l, but covering it as you proceed. 
Then set the bottle nprigbt in a strong cold lather <>< white 
soap and very r/rar soft water, and set il in the sun, having 
gently with your hand rubbed the suds up and down on the 
lace. Keep it in the sun vvvjy day for a wot k, (dr.inging it 
daily into a fresh lather, and always rubbing it slightly, when 
you renew the suds. At the end of tbc week, tak.- the blond 
off the bottle, and (without nuMng) pin it ha.'kwar.l -.md IoT- 



W ASHING. 



55 



ward on a large pillow covered wllh a clean case put on tightly. 
Every scollop of the blond must have a separate pin ; or more, 
if the scollops are not very small. The plain edge must be 
pinned down also, so as to make it straight and even. The 
pins should be of the smallest size. Let the blond dry on the 
pillow. When quite dry, take it off, but do not starch, iron, 
or press it. Lay it in long loose folds, and put it away in a 
pasteboard box. 

Thread lace may be washed in the same manner. 

Li France they have for the purpose of pinning out and dry- 
in«r lace, larrre pillows or cushions set in wooden frames, and 
standin<r on ieet. Some American ladies send their blond to 
Paris purposely to be washed, and when returned it looks as 
if (juite new. 



A WHITE LA(-E VEIL.-— Make a strong lather witii 

white soap and very clpar or filtered water. I*ut the veil iiito 
it, and let it simmer slowly f)r a quarter of an hour. Take i\ nut, 
and squeeze it well, biil be sure lutt to rub it. Rinse it in two 
cold waters, with a drop or two cd' li(juid blue in the last. 

Have H'ady some very clear and weak oum arable water, or 
some thin starch, or some rice wattT. Pass the veil through it, 
and clear it liy clapping. Tin a stretch it out even, and pin it 
to dry on a linen cloth, making the vdiw as straight as possible, 
and opening out all the scollops, fastening each with pins. 
Wbeii dry, lay a piece of thin muslin smoothly over it, and 
iron It on \\\(i wrong side. 

Every time you put it away, fold it ditlerently, as lace veils 
have been know^i to crack in squares from being always folded 
the same way. 

White lace sleeves may lie washed in the above manner. 



56 



THE HOrSE BOOK. 



A BLACK LACE VEIL.— Mix bullock^s gall with suffi- 
cient l-.ot water to make it as warm as you can bear your hand 
i„. Then pass the veil throiirrh it. It must be s(jueezed, 
and not rubbed. It will be well to perfume the frail with a 
little musk. Next rinse the veil throuyrh two cold waters, 
tiniTin^r the last with a little blue. Then dry it. Have ready 
in a pan somc^ stiirenin<r made by pouring boiling water on a 
v.rv suiull piece of glue. Put the veil into h, squeeze it out, 
stretch it, and clap it. Afterwards pin it out to dry on a Hn. u 
cloth, making it very straight and even, and taking care to open 
and j)in the c(\<re very nicely. 

When dry, iron it on the wrong side, having laid a linen cloth 

over tl'.e ironing blanket. 

Any article of black lace may b(^ washed in this manner. 



TO WASH KIBBONS, SILK TLWDKKHCllIKFS, kc 

«_N,.ti<' l)in ribbons of .xrelleut .pcality, n\' one eiitlre <-nloi)r, 
and of a jdam unhgure<i surlace, \sill l)ear wasluuLr. A gund 
satin or mautua rib'uon may be mad(^ to look very wr'H hy 
%vushing it carefully, fir^t in cold water, to which add a few 
drops of spirits of wine: then make u lather of white soap 
•and lukewarm water, and wash the riblx'n ihroucrh that; after- 
wards rinse it in cold water, pull it ev.Mi, and dry it gradually. 
When dry, stretch out the nbbon on an ironinir-tahle, (semrmg 
It to the cloth by pins,) and spr.n<o> it evenly all over with a 
very weak solution of isinglass that has !)0(-n buih-d iu eU-ar 
V ;,trr an.l Mr.uned ; or if ym havo no isinglass, nce-walcr will 
!„. a tolor:d)lo suhstituto for restoring the stiiluess and u|nss. 
To iron the ribbon, lay it withm a sfu'et of e1oan smooth letter- 
p.iper, (the [.aper being both unibT and over it,) and press it 
with a heated iron moved fiuickly. 

If the colour is lilac, add a litth' diss.dved pearla b '- tlo' 



"M 



f il 



WASHING. 



§9 



t "I 



rinsing-water. If green, a little vinegar in which you have 
steeped a few cents. If pink, or blue, a few drops of oil of 
vitriol. If yellow, a little tincture of saffron. Other colours 
may be set by stirring a tea-spoonful of ox-gall into the first 
water. If white, a salt-spoonful of cream of tartar mixed with 
the soap-suds. 

It is seldom worth while to take the trouble of washing rib- 
bon, unless you have a tolerable quantity to do, Uniigured 
silk handkerchiefs and scarfs may be washed and ironed in the 
above manner. The proportion of spirits of wine, is about a 
tabie-spoonfui to a gallon of water. 



WHITE SILK STOCKINGS.— Soap them, and let them 
soak all night. In the morning, wash them through a strong 
latiier of white soap and warm soft water, and then boil them 
ten minutes in another lather of the same. If not quite clean, 
wash them through another w^arm suds. Then rinse th.'m 
tlirouirh two coid waters. If you wish them a blueish white, 
mix a drop or two of liquid blue with the last water, and 
let them lie in it a few minutes. Then squeeze and dry them. 
If you wish them a pale fiesh colour, mix a very little rose- 
pink with the last water, which should be very slightly tinged 
with sf)ap. When they are dry, stretch and pin them cm the 
ironing-sheet, but do not iron them, as it is best to smooth them 
by hard rubbing with the end of a clean piece of tlannel formed 
into a tight roll. Silk stockings, when ironed in the usual 
way, never bjok new. 

Wash and smooth white silk gloves in the same manner. 
If the stockings or gloves have open or lace work about them, 
and are consequently of delicate texture, do not rub them in 
washing, but merely squeeze and press them with your 
hands 






58 



Till: HO USE RUOlv. 



WAS II I NO. 



59 



1 



BLACK SILK SlMJCKLNdlS.— ( -ut somo white soap into 
thin l.its, and l)oil it n\ soft water liil thoroiicrhly dissolved. 
Then mix a littU- of it in cold water, adding a tea-spoonful of 
jrall. ilavino: turned the stockings on the wrong side, 
and rubhed a little of the boiled soap on the dirtiest places, 
wash lluiii well through the lukewann suds. Repeat the 
washin<r, in fresh suds and water, till they are quite clean. 
'JMien rinse thcui through two cold wate-s, adding to the last 
a little blue IVoni the indigo bag. Then squeczi^ tliem well, 
stretch tbeni even, and hang tlieni out immediately. While 
still d;imp, turn them right side out, stretch and pin them oa 
;iu ir.anng Idanket, and with the end of a bit of rolled up Han- 
nrd, or a suiooth stone, rub them hard and ([uick one way, till 
tlu y are quite dry, and look smooth and glossy. This is bol- 
ter than to iron theni, which always gives silk stockings an 

cdd appearance. 

Hlack silk glov.-> may be wasluMl as above; if thry have 

open work, do them with great care. , 



TO TIXGK SILK ST()(nvlN(;S A PALF. PL\K.~The 

stockmgs of course must be originally white or flesh-coloun^L 
Previous to dyeing, wash them in the usual manner, in two 
lathers of warm wat(>r and white soap, squeezing and jires<;ing 
rather than rubbing them. Rinse them through two cold 
waters, and then stretch and dry them. Before you put them 
into the dye, steep them in cold water and s-jueeze the water 
oiit. Th'-y must iru iiito the (iy Vset, '* 

'Vn make the dye, n;ath(>r a laig*- tea-cupful rd the fresh 
llowers or Idossoms of the bergamot ])lant. Put them into a 
china br,wl, j)ress them down hard, and pour on sullicient boil- 
in<r water to cover them. Then cover the bowl closely with a 
plate, ami let the bi rgamot staiul an h-ur or more to infuse. 



When the liquid is well coloured, strain it, dilute it with cold 
water to the desired shade, and add five or six drops of oil of 
vitriol to set the colour, 'i'hen take the stockings, one at a 
time, immerse them thoroughly and evenly in the dye, and 
squeeze them through it. Afterwards, when all the liipiid is 
s<|ueezed out, open and stretch them well, and hang them up 
in the shade. While still a little damp, pin them, well-stretehed, 
up ui the ironing-cloth, (they must be right side out,) and rub 
them nil (|uite dry with the end of a clean flanncd ibrmed iiUo 
a tight roll, or with a smooth stone, 'i'his will give them an 
appearance of newru-ss, which tiiey will not leave if ironed 
in the usual way. 

Instead (>( oil ot vitriol, you may set the C(dour with half a 
<!oz(H) drops of vinegar of wood. 



Wnm: FRLNCII THRLAD (iLOVES AND STOCK- 
TX(JS. — These articles are so delicatt; as to require jzreat care 
lii wasliing, arid ihey must e-n no dccouiit be rubbeiL .Make ;i 
hither nf white soap and ro/;! water, and put it into a saucepan. 
Soap the gloves or stockings well, put them m, and set the 
sauctqran over the fire. When they have come to a hard boil," 
take them e/ff ; and wiien cool enough for your hand, scjueeze 
iliem in the watt-r. Having prepared a fresh cold lather, boil 
tin ni again in that. Tln^n takt^ the })an oil" tlie tire, and as soon 
as the water is cool enough for you to bear your hand in it, 
squeeze them well again. Then rinse them through two cold 
uaters, stretch, dry, and iron them on the wrong side. 

Jl is w(;li to soap them a little over night, and lay them to 
soak in cold water till next day. 



UNHLEA( HLi) STOCKLNCiS AM) GLOVLS.— If 

the brow nish colour of luibleached cotton or thread stockings 



■ m 






60 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



\V A S H I N O . 



m 



is allowed to fade, they will look like very dirty white, which 
is by no means desirable. After washin^r and rinsing ihern in 
the usual manner, sijueeze and open them out. Strain into a 
basin some cold coffee, (any that has been left at breakfast will 
do,) and when the stockings have been squeezed and opened 
out from the nnsinrr water, put them wet into the coffee, and 
work tliem about m it, till they have thorou^rhly taken the 
colour. Then squeeze them out, and dry them in the shad.^ 
Iron them on the wrong sidi-. They will look as if new. 

If you have not much coffee, you need only immerse the 
feet of the stockings in it, and the leg as far up as the calf. 
With strono- coilee you may make th^.m a beautiful li-ht brown 
colour. 

WASH-LKATIIKR (iLOVKS.— (Jloves of what is called 
wash-leather, should first liave the grease-spots taken mit, by 
rubbing on them eith.r magnesia, cream of tartar, or Wiiniing- 
ton clay scraped to powder. Then make -a lather of v.hife 
soap and lukewarm water; (liot water will shrink them;) 
wash and squeeze them through this: and then squeeze them 
through a second suds. Kinse them first in lukewarm water, 
and then m cold, and stretch them to dry before the hre or in 
the sun. 

ANOTHER WAY.— Having removed the grease-spots, 
Vou mav wash the giovcR (one at a time on your hands) by 
rubbing them with a clean sponge wet with lukewarm sm,.;,- 
suds. ^Tben wash off the suds with another spniine dipped m 
clear water. Aft.'rwards pmll and stretch them well, ;>nd hang 
them to dry before tho f.ro or m the hot sun. Whon alnmst 
dry, put them again on your hands, and keep them there till 
quite dry, which will prevent them from shru.kirK^ 



COLOURED KU) OR HOSKIN GLOVES. — Have 

ready on a table a clean towel folded tliree or four times, a 
saucer of new milk, and another saucer with a piece of brown 
soap. Take one glove at a time, and spread it smoothly on the 
folded towel. Then dip in the milk a piece of clean flannel, 
rub it on the soap till you get off a tolerable quantity, and 
then with the wet flannel commence rubbing the glove. Begin 
at the wrist, and rub lengthways towards the end of the fingers, 
holding the glove tirmly in your left hand. Continue this 
process till the glove is well cleaned all over with the milk and 
soap. When done, spread them out, and pin them on a line 
to dry gradually. Wlien nearly dry, pull them out evenly, 
tiie cross-way of the leather. When (iuite dry, stretch them 
on your hands. 

White kid gloves may be washed in this manner, provided 
they have, never been cle;ined with India rubber. 

In mending the seam of a kid glove that has been ripptnl, 
always sew it backwards; otherwise, it will stretch out of 
shape. 

WHITE KID C.LOVES.—Stretch the gloves on a clean 
board, and rub all the soiled or grease-spots with cream of 
tartar or magnesia. Let them rest an liour. Then have re;idy 
a mixture of alum and fuller's earth, (both powdered,) and rub 
it all over the gloves with a brush, (a clean tooth-bruRh or 
something similar,) and lot them rest for an hour or two. 
Then sweep it all otT, and ;r'> over them with a flannel dii>p'd 
in a mixture of bran and finely powdered whiting. Let tlioni 
rest another hour; then brush off th.> pr>wder, and y^u will 

find them cloan. 

On no consideration clean gloves with turpentine, as you 
will be unable to wear thom on account of tiio smell. Turpen- 



:l 









ft t 



" 



f§ THE HOUSE BOOK. 

tine should never be applied to any article that cannot be 
thoroufrhly washed before it is used. 

Leather of tlie natural colour (a saddle, for instance) may be 
cleaned by means of oxalic acid dissolved in water, and 
rubbed on with a sponge, washing it off immediately. 



GENTLEMEN'S WHITE LEATHER GLOVES.— A 

gentleman may clean his white leather gloves to look very 
well by puttinr^r them one at a time on his liands, after he has 
done shaving, and going over them thoroughly with his shave- 
brush and lather; then wiping them off with a soft clean 
handkerchief or sponge, and drying them on his hands by tho 
fire; or hanging them before tiie fire or m the hot sun ; and, 
while still damp, putting them on his hands till (juite dry, to 
prevent their shrinking. 

TO STHUNK \Vn)E B()BiUNET.~~lt is best to siirmk 
new bobbinet before it is cut out; otherwise it will be neces- 
sary to make the cap or collar too large at hrst, lest il should 
become too small by shrinking after being washed. Dip the 
piece of bobbinet into a pan of cold water, and take it out 
immediately. Stpieeze it hard with your hands till the mois- 
ture ceases to drip from it; then open and stretch it, till you 
tret it as straight and even as possible. Afterwards, fold it 
up, and lay it between the folds of a clean fine towel. By the 
time yon have heated an iron, the bobbinet will be in a state to 
smooth over. Try tlie iron first on some other thin thing: for 
if the least too hot, it will discolour the bobbinet. 
If snri<'-<red, iron it on the wrong side. 



TO SHRLNK (UXrrON GORI).— Cord intended for a 
chintz or muslm dress, should be shrunk before it is used. 



W ASHING. 



63 



Otherwise, it will, after washing, contract in its covering, and 
pucker the seams, bands, &c., by shrinking more in proportion 
than the materials of which the dress is made. To prevent 
this, open or unwind the hank of new cord, and having laid it 
loosely in a bowl, pour on a suiliciency of boiling water. Let 
it, set in the scald till the water becomes cold ; then take out 
the cord, scpieeze it hard, and spread it to dry. When (juite 
dry, wind it on a card, and it will be ready for use. 



A SWAN'S-DOWN CAPE OR TIPPET.—Make a 

strono- lather of the best %vhite soap and lukewarm wattr; hot 
water will shrink the skin of the swan's-down. Work and 
S(jneeze the swan's-down through the snds, but do not rub it. 
Then do the same through a second lukewarm suds, and per- 
sist till you see that the article looks clean and white. After- 
wards rinse it through two waters, (the first lukewarm, the 
seond cold,) sijueezing it carefully. Th<>n shake it out and 
dry it in tbo sun or by the firo, h-lding it in your hands and 
shakincT it all the time, to prevent its looking matted or in 
tufts. You m;iy wash a swan's-down bonnet in this inanner; 
first removing the lining. 

Marabout or down feathers may be washed in a similar way. 
When but little soiled, you may clean swan's-down iii tiie 
following manner, without washing it. Powder some plastrr 
of Paris as finely as possible, sift it through a fine sieve, an 1 
then heat it over the fire. When the powder is (piite warm, 
but not burning hot, lay the swan's-down in a largo clem 
nuta! pan, (heatrd also,) and sift tin; powdrr ovrr it tlirouMi a 
si.^ve, turning the swan's-down about, and seeing tlial tln^ 
powder is dispersed well through it. Repeat tin- proc(^ss till 
the swan's-down looks very white. Then take h out and shake 
()\T the loose powder. 



;f! 



64 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



1 urn 



CLEANING MARABOUT OR DOWN FEATHERS. 

Make a strong lather of fine white soap, and soft lukewarm 

water. li' the water is not perfectly clear, it must be filtered. 
Take the feathers separately, and immerse them in the suds 
till they are quite full of it. Then wash them, one at a time, 
hy drawing them through your hand; changing the water 
when necessary, till the last suds remains quite clean, and the 
feathers look perfectly white and nice. Have ready some 
moderately stifT, and exceedingly smooth starch, made with 
cold water, and a very littk blue from the indigo bag squeezed 
into it. This starch nmst not be boiled. Pass the feathers 
separately through it, and then drain them well. Next, take 
them, one at a time, in your hands, and shake them out in the 
Bun and air ; continuing to shake till they are quite dry. A 
bright windy day is best for this purpose. 

If dried by tlie fire, they will not be so good a white. 

Ostrich rcathers may be cleaned m the same manner. To 
curl th( ui, hrdd them near the fire wiiile damp, and if you 
have not the pro{)er instrument, (a long sort of bodkin made 
for the purpose,) you can substitute a pair of dull scissors. 
'I^ake each hhxv of the feather separately between the points 
of the scissors, and give it a twitch or turn inwards, holding 
it in that position a moment, to give it the proper set. 

Black feathers, when straightened by damp weather, may 
be curled in the above maimer. 

While feathers should never be worn when the weather is 

damp. 



WASHING BED FEATHERS— New brd feathers, in 
consequence of retaining the animal oil, are damp, heavy, and 
have a peculiar smell. To remedy this inconvenience, they 
should, before they are used, have a thorough cleansing in lime- 



\V ASHING. 



65 



water; but if this has not been effectually done, they must be 
taken out of the ticks, and subjected to the proper process, as 
it is not only disagreeable, but unwholesome to shu^p on them 
in their oily state. 

Prepare some lime-water, in the proportion of half a pound 
of {puck-lime to a gaihtn of soft water. Put it into a tub or 
tubs, and having stirred it well, let it stand all night; then 
pour off, for use, all the lime-water that is perfectly elear : tlie 
linie having settled to the bottom. Put th(^ feathers into -a 
large deep tub, and pour on as mucli lime-water as will cover 
them about three or four inches, after thry have been well 
immersed, and stirred about in it with a stick. When they 
have stood two days, and hern frecpiently stirred, pour off the 
lime-water, and replace it with a new sup])ly. Let them stand 
two days Ioniser, still stirring them at times. Afterwards, take 
them out. (s(|ueezinn; the dirty water from them,) and wash 
thcTii w«dl in a ful> of rloan water without lime. T\\on '--querze 
them out, a handful at a tiiuf, and spread them to <iraiii r.ri 
sieves. The best v,ay ;>f (iryinn them, is by suspendimr fhem, 
exposed to the sun and air, in wvV^ whose nu shes are about 
the size of those of cabbage-nets. Shak(> them fr( qu(n\tly in 
the nets, and cfdlect all tlie feathers that l^all thro\i>-li tlifj 
meshes. They must always be brou>iht in doors win n tlie 
wT-ather is damp, and may take about three weeks \o drv 
thoroughly. If you have no nets, spread them on the thw-r of 
an empty garret or loft ; stirring and turninir them frefiuent'y, 
and picking out the hard quills and stripj)ing the dr.xvn U^m 

them. 

When they are a11 clean and drv, put them into larne r-f.arse 
bags in the form of a tick ; lay them on a fle.or, and br-at them 
on all sides with long sticks like broom handles, till the 

feather*' are perfecllv light and lively- 

" 6* 



66 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



i 



|-S 



Old feathers may be frreally improved by emptyinjr the tick, 
(vvliich should also be washed,) and washing them through 
several lathers ot^ strong soap-suds. Kinse them well in cold 
water, drain them on sieves, and spread them to dry as above 
on the floor of an empty garret. Their drying may be accele- 
rated by sewing them in a coarse sheet, and putting them into 
the oven on a baking-day, after the bread is drawn, and letting 
them rem.dn there till next morning. This should be several 
times repeated. Tlien put them into bags and beat them. 

Fresh feathers that have been newly plucked from the geese, 
should be laid loosely in large baskets, placed in the garret, 
and stirred very freciuently. 

The smell of new feathers in a bed or pillows, may be some- 
what remedied, by ripping the seams in a few places, and 
putting in lumps of camphor; afterwards sewing them up 

again immedi.iK'ly. 
"in the muhlU" statrs thr usual Uuw lor picking iivp^- is in 
A,icruBt,asat that sruson they mouU r>r shed their small lea- 
thers, which, if allowed to drop about of themselves, will be 
lost or wasted. The person tlrat performs this busin(>ss should 
put <m a coarse tow apron, and holding the goose on her b.tp, 
with one hand should carefully pick out all the small loose 
feathers with the other, and put tnem into a large basket or tub 
placod beside her for the purpose, (ieese-picking is generally 
dune in a porch or out-house; but a dry, warm, calm day^ 
should be chosen f.r it, that the feathers may not be blown 
about by the wind. I-ot it not b.' done if the weaiher is damp or 
cool, as tho goese may catch cold froiu the loss of their feathers. 



UENKWINC' MATTRASSKS.--\VlMn mattrasses have 
been long in use, tlie hair r,r wool with which tiiey are stutled 
es clodded or knotted in lumpw, making it impossible to 



become 



CLEANING ARTICLES OF DRESS, ETC. 



67 



sleep on them with any degree of comfort. They should then 
be carried into a spare garret or out-house, and taken to pieces. 
The stuffing should be carefully picked apart by hand till it 
becomes thoroughly loose and open, throwing it, as it is done, 
into large baskets. Afterwards a new tick should be made, 
and fiuldwith th(. stuffing; as the old one will scarcely be 
worth using again for the same purpose ; but it may be washed 
and converted into tloor-cloths, &c. 

When the new tick is filled, stitch it through with pack- 
thread or fine twine, and a long mattrass needle, (which 
inay be procured at a hardware store,) securing every stitch 
with a little bit of buckskin run on the needle. 

Hair mattrasses are much better than those of wool, which 
are not sufficiently cool for summer. 

Mattrasses will generally recpiire taking apart and picking 
about onre in three years, if they are in continual use. 

Straw mattrasses should be occasionally emptied and filled 
with fresh straw. When straw becomes old, it has a musty 
smell, which makes the mattrass unwholesome to sleep on; 
also, it will produce tieas. 



TO CLEAN \ STRAW OR LEGHORN BONNET.— 

Having separated tlie crown from the brim and the cape or 
neck-piece, and removed the lining and wire, the next thing 
,8 to take out whatever stains may be found in the bonnet, the 
crown of which should be put on a wooden block. For grease, 
rub on with your fingor some powdered Wilmington clay, or 
a little magnesia ; and m an hour or two brush it ofT, and r.new 
thr> application, if necessary. For other stains use either 
cream of tartar or salt of sorrel, put on a little wet. If salt 
of sorrel, it must he washed o(f again almost immediately, lest 
it inin.re tho straw hy remaimng on it. Afterwards (kcppiug 






68 



THE H O U S K BOOK. 



t. 



■t4 



the crown still on the bonnet-block) go over the whole surface 
of the bonnet with a brush dipped in a weak solution of pearl- 
ash in lukewarm water, (a tea-spoonful to a (]uart.) Then 
8cour it off at once, with a strong lather of brown soap and 
cold water, put on with a clean brush. When all the bonnet 
is well cleaned, rinse it in cold water, and hanjr it in the sun 
to dry. Bonnet cieaninjr should never be undertaken in damp 
weatlier. Whrn the bonnet is perfectly dry, you may proceed 
to whiten it. Fill a chafing dish or portable furnace with burn- 
ing charcoal; carry it into a small close room or into an emi)ly 
press or closet, and by a line suspended across, hang the bon- 
nrt over the charcoal, at a safe distance, so that it will be in no 
danger of scorching. Then strew over tlie coals an ounce or 
two of powdered brimstone, and immediately go ont and shut 
tlu? door, seeing that no air whatever can get into tlie room. 
After tin- bormet has hung in the vapour six or seven hours, 
ihrovv- (.pen the door, (liavinL^ first left open an outside door or 
window, so as to admit immrdiateiy the fresh air,) and go into 
the room as soon as you find you can do so without ineon- 
veni(Mice from the fumes of the charcoal and sulphur. Then 
bring out the bonnet, and hang it in the open air till the smell 
of th(> brimstone has entirely left it. If the day is windy, so 
umch the better; but the bonnet must on no account be hung 
out if the weather is damp, and it must be brought m before 
sunset. If it is not suthciently white, repeat next day the 
process of bleaching it with charcoal and l)rimstone. 

The next thing is to stiffen the bonnet. To make the siilTen- 
inir, boil in two quarts of s(»ft water, a .]uarter of a pound of 
vellum shavings, (tlie vollum of butfahVs hide is brst,) filling 
It up occasionally, if it scorns to be boiling too dry. It must 
boil or simmer slowly for six or seven hours. Then, wiien you 
take It from the fire, let it stand a while to settle; after which, 



C L K A N I N ARTICLES OF DRESS, E T C 



69 



pour it off into a basin, and it will become a thick jelly. To 
the sediment left in the pot, you may add a second two quarts 
of water; and after a second boiling, it will form another jelly 
or sizing, strong enough for similar purposes. When you are 
going to use it for a bonnet, melt up a pint of this jelly, and 
mix with it a small half-tea-spoonful of oxalic acid, (not more, 
or it will injure the straw,) and then with a clean sponge or 
brush go all over the bonnet, inside and out, with the sizing. 
Dry the bonnet; and when quite dry, go over it again with a 
second wash of the stiffening. Dry it again, and then spread 
over it a wet piece of jaconet muslin ; or damp the bonnet all 
over with a sponge and lukewarm water, and then cover it with 
a fine white handkerchief, while you press it hard and evenly 
with a warm box-iron, exerting all your strength. The crown 
must be pressed whih^ on the bonnet-block; the brim may be 
done on an ironing-table. Afterwards expose the bonnet to the 
air, till it becomes perfectly dry ; and next day it will be ready 
for putting together, lining, and trimming; first mending what- 
ever defeetive places may be found in it. 

The front of a bonnet will keep its shape much better if the 

wire is tliick and stout. In lining a bonnet, the best way for 

a novice in the art, is to pin a large sheet of thin soft paper on 

the nulsidf of the brim, and (having fitted it smoothl>') cut it 

of the proper shape and sir.e, allowing a little for turning m at 

the edo;e. Then pin the paper into the msiVd- of the brim, and 

if it fits peif.^ctly smooth, cut out the silk liidng by it. A piece 

of oiled Silk sowed all round the inside of the crown, at the 

joining j.lace, and extending down a little upon the tho hrim, 

v.ill ym-vrnt the stain from perspiration, tliat so freouently 

disfigures that part of a bonnet. 

Without a regular cleaning in the preceding manner, a dis- 
coloured straw bonnet may be improved in appearance, if 



70 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



r L E A N I N G ARTICLES OF DRESS. 



71 



pre ious to putlinor on a fresh trimming, you stretch the honnct 
on a block, (or something that will answer the pur])ose,) and 
go all over it with a sponge dipped in lukewarm water, in 
"uiiicli has be(^n dissolved {)earl-ash, in the proportion of a 
small tea-spoonful of }>earl-ash to a pint of w^ater ; afterwards 
rinsing it off, wiping it iiard with a tlannel, and drying it well. 
Next, go over it with a clean sponge dipped in strong rice-water, 
which will he the better for having: dissolved in it a half-tea- 
spoonful of sugar of lead. Ttien dry tlie bonnet, and havin.g 
damped it all over with a wet sponge, cover it with thin mus- 
lin, and press it hard with a heavy and moderately warm iron. 



TO TAKE CARE OF BEAVER HATS.—A hat should 
be brushed every day with a hat-brush ; and twice a day in 
dusty weather. When a hat gets wet, wipe it as dry as you 
can willi a clean handkerchi<d", and then brush it with a soft 
brush, bf^fore you put it to dry. Wlien nearly dry, go ov«^r it 
with a hardt r brush,. It' i: sMll lo^»ks ro\ioh, damp it u itli a 
sponn;.' (lipped in viufgar or stale beer, and brush it with a 
liard brush till dry. 

A good beaver hat should always, when not in constant use, 
be kept in a hat-box, with a hat-stick extended inside of the 
crown 



TO CLEAN (;OIJ) OR\AME\TS.—For chains, ear- 
rings, and other articles of gold jewelry, mak(.> a lather of fine 
whito soap and warm water, adding to it from ten to Ivventy 
drops ot hartshoni. Wash the articles in tliis with a cb^an 
sponge, and (if very much tarnislKul) boil them in it fir tivc 
or six miiuitrs. Ifavo ready a deep j)late f)f magnesia powder, 
that has been heated befire the fire. Immediately oti taking 
the articles out of the suds, lay them in the warm matrnesia. 



and let them remain in it till they are quite dry. Then rub them 
l)right with a fine soft flannel ; using a very small soft brush for 
the parts that are chased or embossed. If there are stones in the 
jewels they must not be washed or boiled, but simply rubbed 
with the maonesia and flannel. 



CLEANlNvJ PEARLS.— If allowed to get wet, pearls 
soon bfH'ome dull and discoloured. Pearl rino-s (and all rintrs 
that have str^nc s in them) should always be taken otT the fm- 
ger.s when the hands are washed, and not resumed till they are 
jierfectly (Iry. The beauty of jewelry is also injured if worn 
in warm weathf-r, when the skin perspires. Pearls should be 
freijuently brirrhtened by rubbing them carefully with a l>it of 
white pin-paper made into a little roll, and using the point or 
end of the roll. 



TO CLEAX AND MEND TORTOISE-SHELL— Whim 

tnrtoise-sh< 11 looks dull, its histri^ may be revived and a line 
{xdish iriven to it, by first washino it clean in soap-suds, and 
then, after wipinnr it j)erfectly dry, rubbing it with sweet oil, 
mixed with rotten-stone finely powdered and sifted through 
thin muslin. Let it rest an hour; then wipe off the rotten- 
stone ; cover the tortoise-shell with magnesia powder, and 
at>er a while, finish wMth a silk handkerchi<>f. It will look as 
well as new, if, instead of the magnesia, you rub on a wry 
link of the reddish brown powder that the silversmiths call 



rciiore. 



To rej>air a tortoise-sljell comb from which a tooth has Iicihi 
broken, have ready a new tooth rather longer than the old 
one, (ami having wet it with water,) soften the upper or 
broadest end of the new tooth by holding it m a pair of hot 
}>incers. The part of the couib from which the old tooth was 



72 



THE HOUSE B R . 



CLEAMNf; ARTU;LES OF DRKSS, ETC. 73 



broken must be wet and softened in the same way. Then lay the 
vacant part of the conih and the broad end (^f the new tooth to- 
gether while soft, (one over the other,) and pincli or squeeze 
tiiem with tlie pincers to unite them smoothly. When cold, the 
new tooth will be found firmly welded in its place. 

This is a very nice operation, but can be performed in such 
a manner that tiie join is quite iuiperceptible. If in a city, it 
is best to irave it done by a comb-maker. As it shows no ap- 
piarance of ever having been !)roken, it is of course very su- 
perior to the old-fashioned method of mendintr a comb with a 
silver rivet. There must be no grease about it. 



TO CLEAN HEAD AM) CEOTHES BRUSHES.— 

Put a table-s{)(H>nful of pearl-ash into a pint oi' boiling water. 
Having fistened a bit of sponge to the end of a stick, dip it 
into the solution, and wash the brush with it; carefully going 
in among the bristles. Next pour ovrr it some clean hot water, 

and let it he a lilllc \\ hilc. 'J'hcn drain it, wipe it with a clotli, 
ami dry it btdore the fire. 



TO (^LEAN (U)MBS._Tie one end of a strong silk 
thread to the handle of a wash-stand or bureau drawer. »Sit 
down before it with a towel spread on your lap, and holding 
tlie other end of the silk tightly in your left hand, take the 
comb in your right and pass it hard and carefully along the 
thread, which must be ma.de to go in between all tin? teeth 
separately, so as to remove or scrap*' down all the inij)urilies, 
Tht-n rub the cdiub witii a comb-brush, or a soft clotli ; rinse 
it in warm soap-suds, and wipe it dry. 



CLEANLNG BOOTS ANT) SHOES.— First with your 
hard brush remove all the dirt. When they are j>erfectly 



clean, stir up the blacking with a stick, put a little on your 
biack!ng-i)rush„ and spread it lightly and evenly over the 
boots or shoes; then, with your polishing brush go quickly 
and hgji^jy ovf-r them, and in a few minutes they will have 
a fine polish. Wlien done, if you find any brown spots, (which 
will hajipen if the blacking has not been put on evenly,) go 
lightly Over the dull places a second time v/ith your blackner. 
brusii. 

V on must liavo three bruslu'S for chining boots and shoes; 
and your blacking should always be of the best kind. 



TO MAKE FINE BLA(n<lNn.-For this you must have 

one (juart of sour beer or porter, (the latter is bestrU'ifrht 
oun(;cs oi ivory black : three ounces of molasses : one ounce of 
powdered sugar-candy, or of loaf-sugar : half an ounce of pow- 
dered trnm arable : half an ounce of oil of vitriol : and one ounce 
ol sweet oil. fiavmg warmed the beer, dissolve in it the rruin 
nrnbic. mix the molasses uith the vitno] and sweet oil, (the 
vitriol IS to ^ive the polishing .piality, and tlie oil is to prevent 
the Vitriol from injuring the l.>ather,) add by degrees the ivory 
black: ruhldng the mixture smoothly together, and seeing that 
no lumps are left in it. Then junir all the ingredients into a 
lar. Stir them iiard, and let the mixture stand three days, 
stirring it with a round stick three or four times each day. It 
will th(>n be ht for use. ]f you find it too thick, (so that it 
will not be sufhcientiy li(|uid even when warmed at the fife,) 
-'1*1 i' Ifttie mr.re beer. Put it into bottles, and cork it tightly. 



ni.A('KL\(; THAT WILE J^RESERVE THE LEA- 

1 HER. —Mix t(,.gether four ounces of spermaceti oil and 

twelve ounc.'s (,f nndasses. Add by degrees twelve ounces 

ot ivory black, mixing it in smoothly, and rubbing it well, 



I y 



* ; 



80 



71 



THE Horsr: hook. 



as to leave no lamps ; tlicn dilulc it trradualiy with a quart of 
the best wliile wine vinenai. It' you tliid it too thick, add 
more vinegar; stir ii hard, and hM it stand in the jar three 
days, stirrin<r it tVe(|uently with a round stick ; tlien botth' it 
for use. If still too thick, eww wiitai wanned at the fire, 
dilute it hv siirrinix in a litth' nion; vine^rar. 



rRKNCll POLISH ViMl iJOOTS, SIJOKS, AM) HAR- 
NESS. ^ — Mix t.'^jictiier t\\(i [)ii\ls n{ \\\r hoi vmeirar, and one 
]>int nf sdfi water; stir \n\n it a Cjuartcr ot' a pound of nhie 
broken up : half a pound ot !oo wood ciiiii^ : a (juartcr ol'an Munce 
of lincly powdered mdino ; a (piarter (d' an ounce of tlie lust 
soft soap : and a (juarler "f an .ounce of isinnhiss. Put the 
mixture over the tire, ruid after ii cfjuies to a l)ojl continue the 
boilinn;- for ten minutes or more. Then strain the liquid, and 
bottle and cork it. W lun cold it is fit for use. 

l^jforc' you apply this jiolish to hoots, s'isoes, tVc., rfunove 
the diit with a spnii'.n' aiui w.Osr. 'I'iieri pul <>\\ the pi'h^ti 
with a clean sponge. Should yi^i \\\u\ i! to.; tlock. hold \\ near 
the fire to warm a little, cUid the iieat will Inpudy it suf- 
fu'iently. 



WASH FOR WHITE BOt>T TOPS.—Mix to^rether one 

ounce of oxalic acid; two ounces ot' hnelv j^owdered ami sifted 
pumice-stonf : and two toa-spoonfuls of cream <d" tartar. Stir 
them into a quart ol" soft water. Apply it to the liijht-cfdoured 
tops r)f ridin<i-hoots, to prev( nt tin ir turmiiLT brownish. Hav- 
ing lirs! brushe(' otf all tlie dust and dirt from the leatht r, nd) 
on the mixture with a (dean ha.rd hrusii. Then sjMoniie it well 
with cold water, ail one way, and put the hoots to drv Lrr'.ulu- 
ully in the sun, or vA a ifooii dista.ncf! frran the lire. Tins 
preparation may be used also for leather saddles. 



CI, i:amn(; AK'iK i.iis or dress, ktc. 75 



BRUSTHNC; A\f) FOLDIXC; A COAT.— A |rentle- 
man's coal camu/t he conveniently freed from dust w ithout a 
eoat-li.»rs(% on which to hano; and extend it. It shf»uld he 
whijq>ed hard w itli a rattan, takintr care not to strike the but- 
tons, lest they he scratidied or broken, if the coat is wa-t or 
muddy, han^r it to dry in the sun (^r l»y the f,re, Ixd'ore you 
attempt !o he:it or iiru:<h it. When perfectly dry, lake the cloth 
between your hand and rub oif the mud-spots beh)re you put it 
on t lie c, lat-horse. 

Alter it has been well fx aten with \\\o. rattan, spread the 
<'o;!t at its lull lenL'th on a tadde, the back beinnr ujq>ermost. 
'J'ake the c.dlar m yrnir b ft hand and a clothes-brush m your 
right, and firs! liru^h the bark of the cr, jhir: ih'ui between the 
shoulders: then the sleeves and cuiVs : then tiie larthesl lapp«d 
and skirt: and then the near one, always brnshiiKr according to 
the na.p ot'the (doth, as it runs towards tlu^ skirts. 

Tit fnid a roai. — Having spread it, as before, on a taide, 
d-uhh tile Ii f! slreve from the elbow towards fb.e coila.r: tiu^ 
otii( r tlie same w.ey : then the hd't l.!jq)t I i;ver tiie shM-ve as lar 
as the back seam, and the (itiier in the sam* iiumner. .\«'Xt 
turn iq) the left .^-kirt so that the ( vA m;iy t.iuch the crdlar: do 
the s;uuie witii the ri'.iht >kirt. (;ive il a Injht brushing :ili 
over: and then turn one-half the coat (xactly even o\er tin,' 
ciilier half. Pnldi d m this mama r, the coat may be pul inio a 
trunk, and will ketq) smo(tth duriiu/ a juuruey of .my hnui]). 



'!"<) FOLD A LADVS DR FSS.^~ !'i,,,., ,!„. dress up.u. a 
h"d, ^jueadln<_! it out wid-- and >mo. ah. w it !i tiie ha(dc part. 
opp<uiiiost, and kiyiier the h»an ev( u at th*" butlum. 'l\dve the 
two outer sidrv; ,;,( the skirl, and 1. hi them over, ^o as to make 
Iheui rather nmre thaai ine» t : lappiU'^r ov* r dow n the middle of 
Uu« h.u k-hr, adth. 'idien place your left hand and arm under 



76 



Tin: IK) USE BOOK 



CLF. ANINMJ ARIl('I,i:S OK IMIKSS, i: T C. 



77 



the folded skirt, and with your ri<rht hand double it soinrwhaf 
more than a qnartpr of a yard uuderneuth llie dress ; and next told 
forwards (so as to lie a!)Ove st) tlu^ upper part of the skirl where 
the gathers join the body ; leavinir the baek uppermost. Then 
turn back tlie sleev<'S, and if they are lontr, told them mwards 
from the elbow ; letting them rest on the back of the body, 
the cuflscrossino- e.icb other. Finally, take all at once, in your 
left hand, that part of the folded drt^ss where the r ills, neck, 
and uj)per fold of the skirt conje together and lieoneacli other; 
and lifting it up carefully, let fall from under it the low^er part 
of tlie skirt that has been turned up underneath. When the 
tail has thus fallen, spread it up over the whole, smoothly and 
evenly, to preserv*- the body and sleeves from being crushed. 
The dress may then be laid in a drawer or packed in a 
trunk, without any danger of tumbling. It may be made to tit 
into a narrower space by lapping th(5 sides of the skirt still 
more over each other, wht-n thrv are folded upon the niiddle uf 
the ii.ick-ltreail'h. 

Altrr foldino; a dresv. (<{ white satin or white silk, pin or sew 
it up closely in two largo sheets of thick brown paper, one 
below, and one ahove. The turpiuitine used in the composi- 
tion of this paper will tend to [ueserve the whiteness of the 
satin. \'ou may place a hluc papj^r between the satin and the 
brown. 

In putting away dresses in a press or commode, hang 
each dress on two hooks or ]>eg<, suspendinir them (back out- 
wards) by the slomlders df tlic sleeve holes. 

When travelling. !l i-^ well to carrv in your trunk a larij-e 
curtain of check, hrovvii imen. "r thick calico, with a drawing- 
striug run tliroui/h :•. case ;;t the- toj). By means ot" this, you 
ran cover your dre>sts and screen them Ironi dust when vou 
are oblnjed to han'r them nt) aeains! tiie wall of your chamber. 



TO FOLD A I.Ain'S ( LOAlv.— In rnaking a cinak, it 
is hesi to have the ca[)e so fiui-lu (1 at the neck, that it can 
ep.silv be taken olf v/he-n preparing to put it away for the sinn- 
mer, or to pack it f.-r tra,v(lling ; otherwise it will ho. impossi- 
ble to previ^nt its getting rumpled. 

Having takt n oil the cape, spread the cloak (right side out) 
on a !)ed, ami told it lengthways all down tb.e back-breadth; 
first iti half, ;ind then laying it over so as to make it four 
dou})le. N(>xt nut your h f t hand and a*!u uiuler the whole of 
the }(i\\( r pa.rt, and with vour right hand turn it uj> al)0ut one- 
third fjf t.fie length of th(3 cloak, 'i'heu double the middle back- 
ward, ami tlie ujiper part lorward, so as to make three erpial 
crossway tolds, (all of course t'our double,) leaving the gather- 
ed or neck part uppermost, and tin; collar out at the toj». 
Next turn back tlic collar, (still doubled lengtliways,) and 
let it rest on the uj)per, or gathered jvart of the cloak. 

'J'ake the capC' (ri<j;ht sidt^ out) and fold it lengthways; 
first in half, and tin n t'o'jr duuhle. Next, turn it iiiickward, 
(ciossways,) letting the upper or gathered half rest on the 
lower. 'J'inni lay the cajx; en the (op of the cloak ; and tblded 
in this manner the whole will k(M^p perfectly smooth. 

In j)utting away for t)u' summer a meritio or cloth cloak, 
f^trew l)etw(>en its fV)lds an ounce or two of camphor, l)roken 
into small bits; and pin it closely up in a large linen cloth. 

A strong loop of galloon or doubled ribbon, laro-o enough to 
jjo over a peu or hook, sliould always he sewed lirmly under 
ihf> hack of the crdlar, exactly beliimi, lor the purpose of hang- 
ing u}) the cloak when m daily use. 



78 



R E M O V I N a S T A I N S, G R E A S F, <i:c. 

TO REMOVE STAINS OP WINK OR FRTMT FROM 
TABLE LINEN. — A wirip stain may sometimes he removed 
by riib})in(r it (while wet) with common salt. It is saiil, also, 
that slierry wine povired immediately on a place wherf; port 
wine has been s|)ille(], will j)revent its leavini^ a stain. A cer- 
tain way of extracting- fruit or wine stains from tahle-lincn is 
to tie up some cream of tartar in the stained part, (so as to form 
a sort of ba(r,) and then to put the lin«Mi into a lather of sr.ap 
and cold water, and hoil it a while. 'I'licn transfer it wot to a 
lukewarm suds, wash and rinse it well, and dry and iron it. The 
stains will disappear during the jirocess. 

Another way, is to mix, in equal (jnantities, sf>ft soap, sfu-kf^d 
lime, and pearl-ash. \hi]\ the sta.in with this pr. parati"!!, and 
expose the linrn to the sun witii ihe mixture [.iastercd (;u iL. 
If necessary, repeat tiie apf)lication. As soon as the stair: has 
disappeared, wash out the linen immediately, as it vviil be 
injured if the mixture is left in it, 

A small stain v.ill sometimes disappear by wettirur i],,' spot 
with cold water, and holdinir over it, at a sate distance, a liohied 
brimstone match. It may he necessary to repeal it with a 
second and third match. 

Vou may also remove a small stain, hy stretchin^r that part 
of the linen over the top of a mun; f,f hot water, and ruliMnir 
on with your finijer, some oxaiic tcid or soni<^ cream of tartar, 
or the mixture of Itoth that i^ r^dd .'-. ..sit .^1' leup,!]. Then 
wasii it oiit immediately. 

Some stains will disajipear fiv u.ttin<r fh.-in 'vitli u "orn 
water, and rubhiier on uia'nit s; i, • 



lit 



ST A INS, <-. !i i: A s i„ f: re 



79 



TO REMOVE FkllT STAINS FROM SILK,-- The 

slain of swtetmeats or syrup may aciKTally he removed i'rom 
.-ilk or merino with very little troid)le if d- ne immediately. It 
is mendy to wipe the spot with the citrner (d" a soft clean linen 
(an old napkin or a handkerchief ) dipped in cold water ; re- 
peatino; it till the stain is erased, and takin<T- care not to rub 
rrossways of tlir stuff, lest you should fray it. Th<^ sufiar m 
sweetmeats neutralizes tho acid, and caus(^s the stain to come 
out more easily llran that (,»i r,iw fruit. \\ v know an instance 
whfMi, by a stran'je accident, the crewn (if a Le<jhorn hat was 
(•(ivered u ilh the syruj> ol' pr( serve(l plumbs, Jiv wiping it, 
immediulely, Willi a rkaii wet napkiii, noi liie siinhtesl stain 
was left. 

Fruit .^taiiis ih] silk may sometimes 1)0 removed, by \vt ttirn^' 
till in with liarlsiiorn uikited \Mth a little water, repeatinir the 
application several times. Wlien it fiils, it is r)winir to some 
pM-!ili;iritv ni the dye ■■'' the silk, bu; it i.-; :tl \\-:\ vs \s i irtli a trial. 
It will 'jeiirrally take '>ll tiie reddirdi in irivs b fl on !)iue-ldaek 
silks, by wine, tea, or lenionnde. If the hartshorn does not 
suec('( il, ■.iud the silk i > bbu k, nethiiin b*t<er vm\ be <loiU' than 
to covrr these red marks willi iidv laid on with a large cameTs 
hair f>rusl!. 



TO }n:STOHE HLACK SILK SLE E\ ES— When the 

sleeves of a bla(d< silk dress have been st;iine-d by }>erspiration 
in \varni weather, mix' m a lar'/e cwyi, eqiia! ipiantitu's ol strennr 
-[urits e!' bartshorri, and S(dt water. Dip •! e!t an spuu_!t:' mio 

this lujiMd, Mild with li lln Ciirefullv '^\-er the sb'eves, flTSf^ 

^•[>r«'adin^ tlu'm mit ^w a t drie. Then drv tbeai ; .nul if the 
colour is not rest'irril, repc.it the process, mMkinjr the mixture 
a little <tr'iii-wr (if hMrt-leu'e. Xtb'rwaoN ipmu them. 

This applicati' n -! b '.r'-'i"rn o; I '^^ .\U •■ xmII 'j;eiier,dly 



80 



TliE HOUSE BOOK. 



8 1 A I iN ri, (. K E A S L , L I C, 



81 



I 



ipi 



rciMove tlie roddlsfi stains hy which hlark silk sl(>evcs arc so 
IVefjiicntly (lisfifTured in smniner; and \\ii] much improve th( ir 
app» arancp, even if it t5ot;s not restore them exactly to the 
.?riirinai hlack, 

\i' you can take tlie sleeves out of tiie dress, or indeed rip 
iheuj all aj)art, you v\ ill he ahle to sponge theiri with mucii 
convf nience :i!u! < llicacy. 

This i'.pi'lication will iVequently remove stains oftc^a, lemon- 
juice, tVc.. irom cdjourcd silks. 

\\ lia! IS called Ijliic-hlack silk, is much more liahle to stain 
thati that which is p't-hlack. India silks rarely stain at all. 



'I'O KXTRAi T (.RMASI-: FROM A SILK OH WORS- 
'I'KD DRMSS, — Small (jreasf -spots on a drtss that cannot hi; 
waslicd, may l'rc(|iientl y ho removed hv tix' imm* diate apj)lica" 
tioij (,t" the corner nf ,i iine napkin, wotted in cnld water, and 
nilihed on the Ntraejiitw ay ..l' the texlure; ehaiejni'j, ■■.( vj r^ii 
iiiues to a eh, 111 C'imer dipped in Iresli water. 'rhi> al-iu it 
dotie immedi.itt !y, will frequently take out the stain (d swa ct- 
meats or anv very sweet thirur dropped on a dress. A piec(> 
of pin-}iaper rolled up and ruhht d w itli the rou'_rh end, on liic 
v roni! side of a fresh u;rease-sjM,t , \';i!l (^ften remove the Ideiu- 
ish from silk. i''ine Fren(di chalk scraped to powder and 
r;ihl;ed on the wroru^r side of the sjiot, hnishino it (di m ai)out 
an hour, a.nd rejMatni'j; the a[)plicat ion, is anotlier re'nedv tor 
riceideiital orease. Hut the most ellicacious !s to scr.ipe d<i\\n 
b(,'nn; of a W iimin'j,tun clay hall, (tu he ohtained iui a tnlle at 
the druf-^'toirs.) and to run the powder oii the w r '10/ side 
et the (jrea-~e--j(o1 . In an leuo i r t\^ o iiiai:-., luh oil the 
powder, and o pea! t he applicali J.. We have ueV'ei knuWii 
it hid. 



'I'O RKMOVK SPOTS OF TAR, PITCH, OR TUR- 

PFNTIN F.-~('areful!y scrape otl" as much of it us yon ran; 
next, w<'t the [)lace thoroujjrhly witii ^.n'Oil salad r)il, and l«t it 
rest till next day. 'I'hen (if linen or cotton) wash it out in 
stron^r warm soa])-suds ; if woollen or silk, rub on soint? ether 
or spirits ot wine to take out the (Xi"'"'"^^^'' 

If the stain is of tar, you may remove it (atte:r it has been 
scrapj'd and wiped) l)y usinn- cold talFnv, instead of sweet oil. 
Take a small lump of jj-ood tallow, nil) and press it welt oil 
the tar speit, and leave it sti(dvinL( there till next day. Tiieii 
proceed ,is above. 



TO FXPRACT LAMi^ OIL FROM A DRHSS.—if 

lamp oil is sj)illed on a drt ss that will not l)e injured by wettin<_r, 
lay il immediately in a >mall tub of cold water. A portion oi 
the «al will shortly lu^ seen to rise to the surfaei- ; then pour otf 
the \\';Uer, replace it with tVesh, and still more loil will ht; seen 
floaimu' 'A\ ihe toj) AL'"ain pour oil' the water, and till llie in!) 
anew ; repeatimj^ the process till no more oil can be discsivt-red 
on the surlace. 'I'hen take out the dress, wrinix it well, and 
dry ami iron li. \o washin<r is inM-essary. We know an in- 
stance of a lamp with its whole contents, hein<j^ overset into 
tlie lap <•{ a vounu; huiy, and by immediately resortin«r to the 
above-mentioned mode ot" extractinL; the (ul from her new and 
very handsome dress of pink Fren(di <rinLrhani, she ajipeared 
in i! next day w ith its he;iiity and colour untarnished, and no 
Ve->tioc ol' the acei(h lit 111 the sliodite-,! de<_rree apparent. 

It' !a.m[i oil or any other lirease is spiHeil (ui a while n'ress, 
it c,m ot' course be erailicated liy washiin^' and hoilinc; in the 
\isuai mannei'. 

To take hunp oil tVom a silk dress, or a.ny one that should 
rioi he wi'tteri, nolhino- is heit'r than to turn the '^own on tbo 



8; 



'in I. rro i > i: no 



u K, 



STAINS, CRKASr 



ETC 



83 



wronor side, aiui cover llw place witli povv.icrod WilniitK-fon 
mil iron with your Wm^^'T the strainht way of the threads. 



ciav 



to [)rev(!fit the silk from i'raviii 



(r. 



At tl 



ir ciul ot'an hour, hrusji 



01 



r tl! 



O Cl.) 



y, and put im some i'rv>\\. 



J: 



y repi-atino- the a 



cuti 



on a lew times, the oil w ill disaj)pear. 



l-pli- 



or vTuml)le(l 



'ro TAKK LAMP OIL OIT OF A SOFA, 
the spot, however iar^c, with powdered 
ton r1ay. Then j>iii down over the place a sheet 
paper, (hlottincr-paper, tor instance,) and \vi it r.-st 
Then iirush ii oil", and 



k. 



\\ 



e 1 •si 



s;'V('r; 



((Ver 



liinin"-- 



)lt ihni 



liours. 



■enew the clay and the paper. [\y rc- 



jieatinir the application tiie oil will he entirely 



extraclf 



W 



1 



lav 



e known this lenuMiy to takeout all trac<^s of oil j 



rom <i crim- 



son damask sol 



a. 



over which a lamp had leaked so as t 



o leave 



a spot as laro-e as a (h^ssert plate, 

'I'he same process will t.ike out oil or otl 



ur (rrease from a 



carpet. If Wilmm^rton (day cannot readily he ohtained, 



f 



It 



v/eli 



to k( 



■ep a supply of if alwavs in tiie leuise.) i 



1 ! I \ 



[ciUi r 



irsn or oot 



]n equal quantities, o.\-irall and powdrred tulhr's e 
ter's clay, (tor instance, a tal)ie-s})oonfuJ of each;) dilut(> llse 
ini\t\ire with water siifrici<'nt to wash the grease-spot riqxatedly, 
i hard. \\ hile. it is dryinir, pin a thin p.aper ( los( ly 



rubtunir It or 



OVt 



r It, to prevent the dust from stickimr to the p,!aco 
tiie (Trcase is ail out, wash the spot with cold water. 



\\1 



leil 



If til 



e accident lias happened to a tahle cover, hearth-ru 



Lf. or 



any thincr that can he I 



luiiir out, It is host to dry it in the 



oi)( n asr. 



TO KXTUACT LAMP OIF VlUni A FFOOR.-Tiko 

»dy some tullcr's earth, (whieh you can procure for a 



imiiHM 



liat 



tritle at any pf)ttery, also at th 



le (rrocery and drutr stores,) and 



scrap(3 it Lu powder with a knih". Four soi 



lie warm water on 



the boards tliat are frreased with th 



e oil, and then spread on it 



tiic fuller's earth; mixin-r u mio a paste, and jilasteriiio; it on 
V. ith a small flat stick. If yon spreati it on v.ith a kniie, the 
|]oe>r will ho stained with iron mould, i.et it 



remain thus two 



days. Then scrape oil' the j)aste, and renew the application 

ater and fresh j)otter's elay. 'Fwo davs 



\\ 



all. r 



more warm w 



rrp(^at it arrain, and persist till the oil is emir* Iv n 



lUdVeu 



i 



hen let tin; place be scruhhcd with soap and water 



in tlie usual manner. 



ro 'FAKF Ol T STOVF-FlPi: STALNS, OR JSOOT 



TKOM A FLOOR.— Wash the place witli sulph 



urie acu 



\ 



v<TV nMi'di diluted w lili w ater. 



u 



V<Mi t;nd tiiat ihr ^t.iill (hje 



jK.t conn.' (-ut, ;uld a wry iiltlo more of the sulphuric acid, to 
make the mixture^ somewhat stron»Ter. 



1'0 'FAKF FAMF OIF OFT OF A (WRFFT. — F 



!ho 



pet, and turn up the jr,!rt tloit is nrea-ed. Ii 



[T]U 



\) 1 



undernf^atli with fiiielv jtowdere 



!Ul)e-e 



or witn sc 



10 ur 



^ J 



iOSeri 



1 iior 



irush 



\\ ilminnton (day. After it has l.iin two or three 1 
it {*1T, and repeat the (day till all the n;rense is extracted.. I 
tie" mean time, (havintr hiid a piece of thi(d< paper h.twicn tl 
;zre-.isy part of the: carpet and that which is clean,) C(jver tl 
oil-sj)ot w ith the pulverized (lay, and pun a piece of hlottin;,:- 
pap(>r over it. Lot if rest two or {hrro hours, and then rfqxat 



n 



U! 



10 



the application- 



I!y| 



lerseveriri"", yon 



will 



succeed m extract- 



in<i- th(> oil lioih fVom tho Ihuir and 



ra 



rpet. The same 



feme 



\\ 



ill remove any otht r o'r< ase 



TO F.\'l'ir\(:T ORHASF-SiM)TS FROM ROOKS OR 
l*AFFRS, — First you must o^ently warm the ^r(Mseil or sj)ot- 
ted part (,f the book or paper, and then press on it bits of blot- 



iff 
14 



81 



Tirr II or sF, v.ook. 



STAINS, GREASE, ETC. 



85 



tingr-papcr, one after anotlir-r, su as to absorb as iiuich of" ibe 
rrroasc. as possihK'. If iho nrcase is iVosh, the bloltinir-paper 
uill be very servieeal)le. Have ready sonu; fine clear t.ssfn- 
tial ','il ol turpentine, beal( (I almost to a ])oilin;^r stale ; v\arni 
the greased leaf a little, and then with a snfs clean hrwsh 
(lipped in the iieated turpentine, wet both sides of the spoltiul 
j)art. }\y repe-atmir this aj)plieatj(in the nre;i.se will bt' ex- 
tracted. Lastly, with another Isrush dipped m reetihed sjurits 
ol wine j.ro over the phiee, ant! the uTease- will no h.ne-er 
appear, neither will tiie j)',ij)ir b" di^eulonred. 

It were Well to finish by prt^ssin<r the paper all over witii a 
niod( rattdy heated iron, layinn-a sheet of tissue papei hetuee!i. 



TO REMOVE (;tn^:.\se from WAEE-PMM:!?.— 

Scrape sMiiK' \\ i!n!'n'J^:ln ciav i" p^iwd,. r; W(t it Vviih a little 
Cold water mixed \\ ith o\-ira]b and pi;i>ter it on the ;,;reasc- 
S})'/ts. Ibn a id^-Itiiiir-paper cart full v ov^r it. la t n rc-a iuo 
or Ihrre hour-;, liuri bri;di n i'lf and renew iho .ii'jdu'atiuu ; 
repeat it till tin- !4r(^ase disajipt ars. 

!i ycMi have no \\ dminjrto!! elav, you may sidtslitut(? 



maitn* '-ii'i. 

O 



TO TAKE Or'I' P\T\T VTiOM A [)RESS.— \for a 

paint-spot has dried, it i-^ evtrenuly ditlicult to reiiiMVc it. 
AVhen fresh, (haviiiix wiped oil' as much as you ran,) it mnv fie 
taken out hy rep( a.tcd appli'-atiotis ot sjdrits of tiirpent in*' nr o|' 
sj)irit^ ot' wine, ruhhrd cii with a .--ilt r.\'^ or a tlanh' 1. later 
also v.ijl eilace it. it' appii(d immrfliatelv- il the r'litit lias 



1)( en allowed t i hardi ji. oiMhiU'j will lake i! i<\] 
tur|>entinej ruhhed on with perstVi ranee. 



ii i 



a 1 - 1 



irits of 



TO TAKE FRESIi 1>AI\T OU'I' OF A (H)AT.— Take 

juimediately a. bit of clotli and rui) the wronjT side of it on the 
paint-spot, if no other cloth is convenient, part of the inside 
of the coat-skirt will do. This simple application will <Tene- 
rally remove the j)aint wli(>n (juite fresli. Otherwise rub on 
with your finjrer some ether, or dip a bit of spontre or llaimfd 
in the etiier, and wipe the paint-spot with it as hard as 
j)ossible. 



TO TAKE WAV Oirr OE (M.O'ill.—IIold a red-hot 
iron (a p(d<er, for instance) within an inrU or two of the (doth 
till the wax has disappeared. Then rul» tin; (doth with sonn^ 
soft (dean rac. 

\\ ax droppiuLos may be removed in the same manner from 

vol set. 



TO TAKE OFT SPER\F\FETL— First scrape oif th.i 
drops of >})er!iiac( ti niedy witii a knife. Then lay a tiou sot"L 
])ajier over them, and j)res.-, on a warm iron whndi must not htj 
la.! enounh lo injure liie colour. Afterwards rub the place 
with sj»irits of w inc. / 

If the sperm;u-eti lias fallen on an arti(de of wbitdi you rar> 
conveniently net at the wronn; side, first scrape oil" as much of 
the M^rease as stands on the surfa(;e, then rub the under-suj,' of 
\\\i' sjiot with W ihninjrion (day-bail scrajx'd to powder, and let 
it rest inr an hour or two: then repeat the application. 



TO REMOVE WATER STAINS FROM JiLAOK 
CR AFI^'. — "VX'ken a drop of \vat< r falls on a Idack crape v(il 
or colbir. It leaves a coiisr)ieiious white mark. To o!)!iterat(5 
thi-, spread the crap(> on a tabb\ (layintr on it a larLo- l)ook (<r 
a papor-vveii^rht to keep it steadv.) and pla^-e underneath the 



m 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 






4i 



r 
'1;; 



I 

■ft 



I 



Stain a piece of old black silk. With a larrre earners hair 
brush dipped in conunon ink, ^ro oxw the slain ; and then wipe 
oil- the ink with a little hit of ohl soft silk. It will dry im- 
mediately, and the white mark will be seen no more. 



TO RKMOVK DUST OR MUD FROM 4 DRESS — 

'i'ake a small broom-corn whisk and (havimr shaken the 
<inss) hnish it carefully between the pleats or o-athers. If 
there is mud (,n th.> skirt, rub it oil with a pifce of stout 
wr.rstfHl stuf]' f )rmrd into a roll ; or with a clean c.^arse towel. 
A plu-^h-hioek is an exc.dleot thinrr forbrushin<r silk or merino 
dresses. 1\) make it, <rot a small Sfpiare block of wr)o.l, and 
s< w tiohtly all '>\-vr it (in the manner of a pincushion) a 
coverincr of saddler's plush. 



o 



TO TAKK INK OUT OF A (T)LOURFD TAHLi:- 
COVER. —For a larrre ink-stain, dissolve a tea-spoonful of 
oxahc a<-i(l. in a tea-mp ,,f hot water. Four it into a I.om I, 
and dip into it tho part that is stained by tho ink ; rubhm.r it 
well in the solution. If tiie ink does not come out woll, mix 
some fresh oxalic acid and hot water, and add it to the frst. 
Rul) the stain a while lonrrer ; and when tin; ink has all come 
ut, dip the part immediately in water that is warm but not 
hot. Rub it well in the water, to j^ret the oxalic acid outirfdy 
out; for if allowed to remain in, it will corrode the article. 
Tlien wash the table-cover, directly, in the manner described 
iu a f inm r rccr-ipt. 

It these directions are carefully fdlowed, the ink will !„> 
extr.icted, and the colours of the table-cloth not in thn hast 
disturbed. 

li ink is spilled on white clothes, apply the oxalic acid, as 
above, and then put the article at once into the boil. This 



I 



STAINS, G It F. A S i:, K V C 



87 



application of oxalic a<'id, nsrd vrry can fully ^ will also remove 
ink spots from coloured dresses. And it will take out stains 
of tea, even from a bufl-coloured article, on which a tea-stain 
has turned hia(dvi>h. 

Oxalic afid ,\\\(\ hot water will also remove iron-mould. 
After apply injr it accordinn- to the above diiections, place the 
article in tin* hot sun for about a (ptart(>r of an hour. 

Thoup-h a powib^r, it is best to keep oxalic acid in a l)otth; 
li<j;htty covered ; lakin(r c;ire that the word "' Poison" is writtcm 
conspicuously on the labeU Tiie mistK-ss of the family should 
not allow it tu ]i(\ out of her own possession. 



TO REMOVE INK-SPOTS FROM WHITE (U.OTIIES. 

— This nmst be done bef)re the clothes are washed. Pick 
some tallow t>om the bottom of a clean mould candle. Rub 
it hard (jn the ink-spots, and leave it stickinir there in hits, til! 
jirxt day, (tr lonirer. Tlum let the article be washed and boiled ; 
and if it is merely common ink, tlic stain w ill entirelv di--;ij)- 
]>ear. Of course, tliis remedy can f>nly be used fir white 
ihiiers, as cohaired (df^thes cannot be boii(Mi without entirely 
fidin<r them. We know it to be ellicacious. I'he tallow must 
be rubbed on (juite cold. 



TO TAKE OUT MARKIXCJ INK.— Wet some ehlor-do 
(^^ lime with warm water, and rub it on the mark w ith yoiir 
finirer; re{)eatin(T it till the ink disappears. Wash out the 
]dace immediately ; as, if lett in, the chlf)ride of lime \\ li! 
nipare th" linen. (Oxalic acid or salt of sorrfd, rn})hfd on alter 
the m.irk has ht-rn v\ etted with warm \Nater, will also t.ikc i' ^ ut. 



TO REMOVE Frn-:sn ink from a CARPE'1\_A.s 

fiooii as tiie ink has !)( tn spilled, fak(^ up as much a^ you vww 



-f 

f . 



88 



THE 110 118 E KG OK. 



r1 



w 



with a s{)0()ii, and then {)oui on cold water repeatedly, still 
takinjT up the !i(iuid with the spoon. Next, ruh the j)lac(! with 
a liLlle wrt oxalic acid or .salt of sorrel, and wash it oil" iiunie- 
diiilidy with cold water. 



'JO TAKE INK OUT OF IINPAINTKD WOOD.— 

W hen a desk or hench or tloor is stained with ink, cut a lemon 
or a lime in half, and rub the sjsots with it. Then wash it oil" 
with w arm water. 

Vine<rar is a tolerable substitute for lemon-juice, m removing 
iid<-stains from boards. 



TO TAKK INK 0[!T OF MAHOGANY.— Mix a small 

tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a larfn^ tabb-sooonfu! of soft 
water; dip into it a bit of clean tiannid, and rub it on tiie ink- 
spots li<rhlly and quickly, till tlw^y disappear. Tiien wasii it 
olf with a little milk, and rub it dry. 

Or y<Mi m;iy wet a lifllc salt oi' tartar or oxaUc acid ;ind ru1) 
it on the irdv-spdt, wasiiitig it '.if immediately after the ink has 
disappeared. 



TO IJFMOVF IlKAT MARKS FROM A TABLF.— 

l! 1 whitish mark is left on a table by carelessly settinj^ on it 
a piicher of boilinn water, or a Itot dish, pour some lamp oi! 
nil tb(> spot, and rub it liard with a soft cloth. 'I'hen pour on 
;i iilfle spirits of wine or (^oloirne water, and rub it dry with 
anolbrr soft cloth. Tin; white mark will thus disappe;ir, and 
the table look as well as ever. 



TO RFSTOIvM: MIFDFWFI) I-INFN.—Clothes snuH- 
tiiiies become mildew ed fr(*m rernainin"- damp too lornr before 
th»'y are ironed, or from other causes. If they are clothes that 



STAINS, OR i: A ?; K , 1, T C. 



SO 



have no dye or colouring about them, let them b(^ dipped in 
very sour buttermilk, and then spread on the orass in the sun. 
When they are dry, wash out the buttermilk in cold wattT, 
and repeat the process till the mildew disappears. 

Another way of removing mildew, is to soap the spots, and 
then, while wet, to cover them with fine chalk scraped to pow- 
der. Rub it well in, and then expose the firti(de to the sun. 
liy repeating the application the mildew will disappear. 

Another way, is to mix some soit soap with powdert d 
starch, addinn; half as much salt as you have of the st;irch,aiid 
also the juice of a lemon. With this mixture cover the mildew 
on both sides, and lay the article (»n the grass ; keeping it out 
night and day till the stain disappears. 



TO RESTORE SOOIMTIED LINEN.— If linen has l)een 
scortdied in ironin<i, and tlie mark did not go entiredy thmni'li 
80 as to daman-e the texture, it m;iy ])c, nunoved by the k.'llow- 
inrr process: — Take two onions. })cv\ them, slice thein, and 
extract the juice by sijiu-ezinsj- or p'juudinir. Then ci;t u|> half 
an ouiic(^ of while soap, and two eainces of fuibT's earth, uok 
with them the onion-juice and lialf a pint oj" viuegar. Hoil 
this composition W(dl : then Sj)rea,d it, when C(M)1, over the 
scorched })art ot tln^ linen, and let it dry on. At'terwards wa^h 
out tlie linen. 



TO WHITEN LINEN ITIAT HAS TI RNEI) VEL- 

J>0\V. — Cut up a pound of fine white soap into a rrajjori ^f 

milk, arid hantr it over the fire m a wash-ketth\ \\ hen tht; 

soap has entirely melted, put m the linen, and boil it h dt' a.n 

hour. Th(^n t,ik(> it out; have ready a lattier dt" <o:ip aini warm 

water; wash the Imen in it, and then rinse it tlirongh tw-M-iihi 

waters, with n verv little Idue in tli<' \.\>\ 

6* 



1^ 



cfD 



m 



:» ;. 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



TO UKsrORK LINKN THAT HAS L()N(; bekN 
STAIN KD.—J{,ih the stains on eacii side with wet brown 
soap. Mix some stareh to a thick paste with cohl water, and 
spread it r)ver the soaped phices. Then expcse the Unvn to 
Hh^ sun and air; and, if the stains have not disappeared in 
tJnve or lo.ir days, rub off the mixture, and rc.peat the process 
vvitii fr, sh soap and stare},. AfKTwards dry it, wet il with 
cold water, and put it in the wash. 



TO KKKV SH.K.-Silk articles shnuhl not be kept hdded 
iii vvhite paper, as the clilonde of lime used in bh'achin^ the 
pnp.^r uijl probably impair lUv colour of the silk. Ijrown or 
'•i'^'' l"'P<r 1^ hotter: the yellowish smooth India paper is 
lji--^t "fall. Silk intrnded f .r a dro^s should not br k.-pt in the 
hons,. b.n^r bofon. it is n.ade ui>, a. !y,n^ in the folds w,ll have 
a lend.Micy to impair its durability by causing it to cut or spin, 
parlicularly :f the silk has bc( n thickeiiod by oum. We knew 
• in instanee of a veiy eleeant and costly thread-bu-e xvi] Uvmu- 
'-'^''•i "" Its arm,,! imm fVanro eui mlo s.juare. ( and thoivf ,re 
d.Mroy.d) by beiii^ (,.UU;\ over a }.a.!e-board card. 

A uhite satin dress should be pmned up n. blue paper, 

''''■' ""**'"^'' '''"^^" i'^M'^'r outside, sewed tocrether at the edi^s! 

'''!^" l>''st way of keepin^r ribbons is to roll them round tlie 

'"^ ''"' I"'n'"-^''' :">d then wrap, them in .ott 



Mni-!xS mndi 



I'''l '■'■• ^ "" '"a" »"a'^ily '>btain a few blu<-ks fro; 
I 



n ttio stor( s 
^vherenbbons are sold. The bloek should be a littb' widor 



llian the nbiM.n, that the td-re's 



"J^:^ not be injureil. When 



3 Mi have w..,n.] It smoothly rMied tlu- block, secure the ( nd 

"*" ''"■ '■'^''•'"' ^^'"' •' ''!'i'- H.innikin pm. A !ar-e pin will 
bave hob^s, and pcrfiaps <.rreeri .-sh-s. 

In rollmjj fa,, pieces of ribbon round the same bl^rk. place 
the lir.t end of 'he Second pier-e urv.h r the laM end of the hrsf 



S T A I N S, G K K A b R , E T C 



91 



j)iecn, otherwise there will be a ridjre where the two come 
together. Take care, in rolling, not to make the slightest crease. 
Never wrap silk or ribbon, or indeed any thing that is to bo 
worn without washing, in a printed paper, as the printing ink 
will rub off and soil it. 



TO (^.KAN WHTTK SATIN SHOES.— Rub them 
lengthways of tin; satin, with a j>ie'ce of new white flannel 
dipped in S{)irits of wine. If slightly soiled, yon may clean 
tiiem bv rubbino- with stale bread. 

Wliite satin shoe;3 should be k(>pt in blue paper closely 
wrapped, with coarse brown |>a{)er outside. 

'I'o keep your thin light slij)})ers in shape, when you put 
them away, fobl them ov(^r len^tbways or sideways, and tie 
the strings round them, ^'ou sln)uld have a coveretl ijox pur- 
j^.osely for your shoes. 



STAIN MIXTHRFj. — Take an ounce of sal-ammoniac, (or 
hartshorn,) and an ounce of salt of tartar: mix them well, put 
ihem into a pint of sodt water, an<! bottle it f )r nse, keepiu'.: it 
very tightly corked. Pour a little of this li^piid into a saucer, 
.uid wash m it tboNC p:irts oi' a wiiite article that have Ixien 
stained with ink, mildew, IVuit, or red win!\ W^lien the stairis 
irave' by this jiroeess been removed, wash thf; article in the 
usual manner. 

Another stain mixture us(dul for removing ink-spots, is to 
dissolve half an ounce of oxalic acid in a pint of soft water; 
then bottle and cork it for use, shaking it well. To ns<> it, 
stretch the ink-stain over a bowl of [sot water, and rub it with 
a s|)ong«> di{)ped in the oxalic solution. Then w^ash and dry it. 



(T.OTHKS IJALLS.—Take f<^ur ounces of fuller's earth, 
dried so as to crtnnbb' into pander, and mix with it half an 



• i. 



<« 






'i 

."■■ 



.(£ 



■ 1-1 



Oil 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



m 



^i 



oune,. of pearl-ash. Wet it with a sufficiency of lemon-juice 
to work It into a stiff paste. Then form it into balls, an,i dry 
then. i„ the sun, or on the top of a n.oderately warm slove. 
\Vhen ,,uite dry, put them away for use. They will he found 
rllMMcious in removing grease spots and stains from articles of 
'■'"il'ii'g, tirst welting the spot will, cold water, and then rub- 
l""g on the hall ; afterwards drying the place in the sun or l.y 
tla' fife, and then washing ,t off with a sponge and clc;,n water. 



SALT (W LI:MO\.-TIus is the popular but erroneous 
>Kun.. ofamixture very efficacious in taking out stains from linen, 
or lr„„, ih,. hands. To prepare it, pound together in a mortar, 
<M".'i quantities of oxalic acid and cream of tartar, (say an 
ounce of each.) n.ixing them thoroughly. <Jr the druggiJt of 
V. hoa, y„u buy the two articles, will have them pounTcd for 
yn. J'u( it into small boxes, and keep it <losely covered, and 
free fro,,, damp. When used, it must be moistened with a 
li"i<- water. If y„„r bands are stained with ink. fruit, or 
'■'■i<'<l uilh any ,1,,,,.., dip ,|„:,„ i„ wat,T. and then ruh en the 
st|H„ed parts a Imie of this powder; aflervanls washing ,t off 
\\ it!i lino soa}). 

A \mvv *>r lemon or the half of a lime, rubhed on hard, w,ll 
also remove stains from the hands. 



' WILMINGTON C]A\ li\Ifs 'iM.n . . 

• j.\ I i>AiiJi>. — 1 hose art> e.xoenont 

for extraetinjr ^.rease, and may be had m Philadolj.hia, at most 
of the drucr-stores, and of Mrs. Norris, South Second stroot, 
u est side, a few doors above (^hesnut. They cost bat a tnflo,' 
and no house should be without then,. They are made entirely 
prruliar sort of rl;,y, fnmd at Wihni.i^ton, I).d.; and to 
<^ ti.pu,, they nnist be srrnped .lov. n, and the powder rubb.<l 
on the greafie-spot. 



CI a 
us 



93 



t?. 



I) M E S T I C 1) Y V. S. 



REMARKS. 

All artieles to Ite dyed at home, should, if they arc not (]U3te 
new, be w(dl wash«>d and boiled, so as to make them perfectly 
clean f)efore they are put into the dye; otherwise the colour 
will be dull and dinny, and the dirt will appear tiiroufvh it. 
]V('vit)us to rroinir iuto the dy»;-kettle, they shf)uld be immersed 
either in lye, alum-water, or plain water; then well squeezed 
and shook out, and put into the dye wet all through ; otherwise 
the colour will spot or run in streaks. If they have been 
originally of another colour, that col(Mir must be boiled out as 
iniM-b as po>siido, bcf.iro they can take the new dye suioothly 
and <'V(idy. White thin^rs, or those of a very pale pink, or 
pale blue, take a dark or black dye much better than when 
ihi'ir colour was previously dark. 

If the shade is not deep enough tlic first time, dip them again 

in the dye. 

While the thinnrs are in the dye-kettie, kee}) them well 
opened out, lifting them up and down occasionally, and stirring 
them about with a stick. 

The dye for light colours should be made in earthen, tin, or 
})rass vess(ls, and fx^'i^^^raily set with alum. Dark '-olours 
sh.oubl be IjoiIimI m iron, and usually set with eop})eras, 

Rrdorc von fuit in tlu' article to be dyed, it is best tf) try the 
colour uj)oii a waste bit of the same material; or by dipping 
in a piece oi' white pnper. 






94 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



■'\ 



M 



Vi 



PINK I)\ E.— Take a sufficient quantity of flowers of tlie 
berganiot plant; pick them clean, and boil them in clear soft 
water ; makincr the dye stronaer or paler as you chonse. When 
well hoilod, strain the li,|tnd, and add to it a few drops of 
oil of vitriol ; more or less in proportion to the quantity of dye. 
There must be just enough of the vitriol to give the liquid a 
flight acid taste; but if there is too much, it will mjure 
tlie texture of the article to be dyed. Tiiis article (it should 
always be a white one) must previously be W(di washed m hot 
Boap-suds to make it j,erfectly clean. Then rinse it in cold 
water, squeeze it, shake it out, and j)ut it wet into the dye. 
When it IS thoroughly imbued, rinse it in cold water. Lastly, 
dry and smooth it with a stone, or with a very cool iron. 

This is a beautiful pink dye for white silk scarfs, handker- 
(^hiels, &c. For those articles a little gum arable water (for 
instance, a table-spoonful or more) should be mixed with the 
rinsing water. The fringe at the edges should be mcely 
pulled out and shook while dry ma. 

Tiie bergauiot llowers, if carelully dried and put up in white 
..papers, will answer very well for tlie dye, at seasons when no 
fresh ones are to be had. 



HKD.-Having boiled in brass or earthen, two gallons of 
clear soft water, half a pound of wheat bran, and three ounces 
of ])owdered alum; strain it, return it to the kettle, and put in 
n.ilf an ounce of cream of tartar, and half an ounce of cochi- 
neal ; each tied in a separate thin uiuslin bag. ]Wi\ it about 
a quart.-r of an hour. Then dip in tlie article to be .\yr.\, and 
proceed in the usual maimer. 

Ifyou wish a (h-rper nui, use a smalh-r prop<Mti.,u of uat^r, 
and more of (.he c^chiih al. 



.POMEHTIC DYES. 



95 



i'l* 



YELLOW. — Procure t>om a drug store, a sufficient quantity 
>f temerech or turmeric powder; tie it up in a muslin rag, and 
ooii it in alum-wat»=r, or in skim milk. Have ready the article 
to be dyed, (whicli, if not (juite new, must be made perfectly 
clean by washing.) When the turmeric liquid has arrived at 
the tinge you wish, take out the bag, put in the article, (which 
must be previously wet thoroughly,) and give it a boil. Then 
S(}ueeze it out, and stretcli, dry, and iron it as (juickly as 
jjossible. 

7'urmeric will give a beautil'ui yellow colour to white silk 
handkrrcliiefs, scarfs, or ribi)r)ns, Aiso to muslin for curtain- 
linings; and to ihf th.in muslin used i"or cov(>rin(r jrilt frames 
lamps, <^:c., in the summer. 

The llowers of tli(3 I'rencfi marig(dd, picked to pieces, and 
boiled with a bit of alum, will dye a tine lemon yellow. The 
article to be dyed must hv. whit(% washed very clean, and then 
steoped in cidd water. Aft<'r the marigold dye has been boib;d 
and str:ii{it (!, put tho artir-h' iti wet, <\nd boil it till well colourcii. 

AnotluT ytll"W may be dyed, by tying some sadron in;', thin 
muslin bag, and boiling it in alum water, in an eartlien vessel, 
'i'lnm strain it, and when cool, put in the articl(\ 

Peach leaves will make a yellow dye. Also onion skins. 



BLUE. — Boil gently together in clear soft water, a pound 
of woad, half a pound of indigo, and two ounces of alum. 
Then strain it, and add an ounce of pyroligneous acid or 
vinegar of wood. Take the article to l)e dyed, (which mu^^t 
be white,) and if dirty, wash it well. T'hen soak it in ciran 
water, wring it vf^ry well, and put it wet into the dye'. K( ep 
it in till you perc<dve that it has thoroughly taken the colour, 
stirring it about with a stick. Then dry it, and afterwards 
wash it out in warui soap-suds. 






i 



4 



93 






THE no USE ROOK. 



DOMESTIC DVES. 



«7 



BLUE C()MP08IT1()N.-This is a comp-,und of indigo 
crtid vitriol, and can be obtained at the druo-aists in a phial. 
The cost is twelve cents an ounce, and it colours silk a fine 
bine, l>ut must not be used ior cotton. The proportion for a 
lii(lit blue, is ten or fifteen drops of this composition, mixed in 
a <|uart of warm soft water, and then stirred and strained. If 
Vou wish it darker, add more of the }>Iue compound. Immerse 
in it the article to be dyed, (tirst wettino- it,) and when it lias 
takt^n well, wrinj^r it out, and dry it. When (juite dry, wash 
it in cool soa])-suds, and dry it ao-ain. This will prevent it3 
being injured by the vitriol. 



1)AIM\ lUJ'K. — IJoil four ounces of copperas in two cral- 
lons r,f water. Havin<r wetted the article, dip ,t into the cop- 
peras dye while hot. Then rinse it throuirh cold water. Have 
ready a stron<r decoction of lo^rwood boiled and strained, and 
dip the article throu<^rh that till it has taken a fine dark blue. 
Ihy It, and then wasii it in soajt-suds. 



(.KEH\.~Make first a fiiu> yellow dye of turmeric, tied up in 
thin muslin, and boiled in soft water, with soint; pieces of aium. 
Havin<r thoroughly wet the article to be dyed, put it intc the 
dy(N (aftrr it has become tepid or lukewarm,) and stir it ^»bout 
till It has taken. Then oj)en it out, and dry it. Afterwards 
stir into the yellow dye a sufficient (juantity of the druggist's 
Idue indijro-composition, (a little at a time,) to make it the tint 
of green you require. Thru put into water the article tliat is 
already dyed ydlow; and wh.n well soaked, squeeze it out, 
and ]>,it it wet into the (rr,.en ,lye. Wh,.,, it has taken t!ie 
green thoroughly, (perhaps m lijteen minutes,; dry it, and 
smooth It with a stone. A warm iron will injure lb.' cdour. 
'J'his dy»> must not be used f.-r Cotton. 



i^ 



A good proportion of the ingredients for a bright green dye, 
is two ounces of turmeriv- to four gallons of water, with four 
ounc.>s of pulverized alum; and for the bhuMng, half a table- 
spoonful of the indigo compound. For a more yellowish 
green, use more turmeric; for a more blueish, a larger pro- 
portion of the indigo mixture. 

For a dark or bottlt^ l^^^^'^'n, take twelve ounces of fustic, and 
lliree ounces of bruised alum, and boil them in three gallons 
of water. Then slir in (by degrees) the indigo composition, 
till you gtt the colour as dark as you wish. 



AN EXCELLENT BUFF DYE—For about twelve 
yards of white cotton or thick muslin, pr< pare in a brass kettle 
two gallons of S(dt water, into which put a large tea-cupful 
of pot-ash sewed up in a flannel bag. After the pot-ash has 
entirely dissolved in the water, hang the kettle over the fire, 
and let it become s<'alding hot ; but do not ritlow^ it to boil. 
When i!/:nost at tbo boilina jsMint, take out the pot-ash !>;ig, 
and put 11! an ounco ot' anatto or aronetta-powder, sewed up in 
a linen bag. fiCt the anatto bag simmer in tin? water about 
half an hour, till the- ketthi is almost at a boil. I'hen liave 
ready the article, w hich must be previously washed in a strong 
warm pot-ash water. Kcmov(^ the kettb; from the tire; ])ut 
into it the wet muslin that has been wasluHl in the pot-ash 
water, and work it about in the dye; rinsing it up and down, 
till the whole of it has taken the colour thoroughly and evenly. 
Do not let It boil, as that may injure the tint. Then wring 
it W(d], opon and shake it, stretch it evetdy, and hanfr it out to 
dry immediately. After it has entirely dried, wash it well in 
soap-suds, hang it out ag.iin, and iron it while damp. 

This will be found a very handsome colour <or linings, hed- 
s{)rt'a(!s, vallances, and <'ommon curtaius. F.,r tlui latter 



98 



THE irOrSK ROOK. 



Domestic jj v k s. 



99 



if- '■ 









purpose, it should have a frlnga or a hindinir of !)lack, dark- 

^reen, hrown, pur{)]e, or criiiison. AnmvUd alonr, makos a 

well known salnion cohjur; hut this addition of pot-ash mvcH 

ita heautiful hri<rht hulT tint, such as in g( :nor<>dly caHcd hird of 

})aradise colour., It will hear repeated washinjrs, without 
fa<iin'r. 

For a more yelh^wisli tiniro, use a hirirer portion ofpol-asli ; 
for a more reddisli, inerc^ass; the quantity of arcaietta. 

This dye may l-e made of a (iv-ej. na«ike«m roiour, if 
desin'd. 



COMMON ARONETTA DYK.-Tie up some aronetta or 
anatto powder (for instance, tw(dve eonts wonli) in a thin 
muslin hajr, and ruh it into a stron^r hither, (•nnnl soft soap is 
best fur this purpose,) or into w«>ak lye. llavinof soaked the 
article in cohi water, wrino- it out, open it, and hoil it in tiie 
dye. Then dry it in the shado, and iron it. 

This quantity is siinicu'nt for iu» Ivr yarns of thick muslin, 
wliieh will !)e found vory useful for luunn-s -.md other 
purposes. 

The proper name of tiiis dyf^-stufl' is anatto or arnotto, hut 
its popular appellation is aronetta. 



FINE SALMON COI.Ol R.—Make a stronir huher with 
very ^rood soap. Tie up in a thin muslin ha<T a RufTudent 
(juantity of anatto or aronetta [)owder, (not less than six cents 
worth.) and rub it info the lathtT: then fjive it a hoil f<,r a 
quarter of an hour. Havin^r wet the article to he dyed v.rv 
thorou^rlily with alum-water, put it into the dye, and h't it hoil 
for half an hour or more, in j)roportion to its size and thickne'^s. 
Then take it out, dry, and iron it. 

This quantity will dye six yar.is of silk or muslin. 



NANKEEN COLOrU.— Take a sufficient quantity of 
hirch hark, split it small, atui tic it up in a tliin cotton cloth. 
l*ut It into a })rass or tin kettle witli soft water and a tew bits 
ot almu. When it has h.dh.d till you net the rinht colour, let 
it cool a little, and put in \\w. article to he dyed, havinir first 
wet it thoroiiLdily. 

SLATE (M)LOLR.-Thi, n,ay h(> ohuiined by the very 
Simple process oi' Ixdlino- in vincirar witli a bit of alam, 
some pioces of th(> tliirk purple pap<r tliat comes round sntrnr- 
loaves, ^rticn strain it, and rc^turn it to the kettle, which must 
he of iron. Havin<r first f)oih>d all the original colour out of 
ihr articles to be dyed slate, and steeped them in cold water, 
squoezc thi ni out, open them, put tluMu wet into the new dye, 
and boil them till thorouirhly coloured. Then dry them, and 
wash them in soap-suds. 



liLAC'K.— First, in ho! soap-suds \>>n\ nut as much as j.os- 
sible the previous colour of the article to bo dyrd, and then 
wash it in soft water. Ha.ve ready a dye mad(> in the propor- 
tion of a na.llon oi' vine(rar to a i)ound of rrpound lofrworid 
chipped small and tied up in a thin ha-. Let it stand all 
niuht. 1,-1 the morninir ad.i a piece of copperas half tli(> size 
<il an e<r,_r, (nr lar^vr, accordim.r to tiie quantity of dye,) ;in<l boil 
the whole f )r an hour; then strain it. Haviutr made the article 
to he dyed thoroufrhly wet by soakino it m lukewarm water, 
squeez(> if, shake it out, and immerse it in th(- dye; boiliuLT ^ 
.! qnart(>r of an liour or mor(> in jirojiortion to its size, and slir- 
nuir it about witli a stick. Take it out. d'-y ii. \v( t i? nil 
lhron<rh n.rain, and <riv<' it anr.ther boil in tiie dye. Repeat 
llii- a third time. Afterwards, to soften it fron, the harshness 
kit by the blaid. dye, wash it in tepid so,ip,-.siid->, and b t it lie 









a 



100 



THE nor. si: book. 












in the lather ahout a (luarter oi' an hour. Rinse it first u\ rlviu 
water, and then (ilthv, artich; is silk) pass it ihroierh a weak 
^runi arahic water. Streteh it well, dry it in *he sha(h>, and 
then })ress it. 

This dye will he found useful for silk articles. A dre.ss 
must he taken entirely to })i(>ees h<d"ore it is dyed. 

To ohlam a jet hlaek ; make hrst a stron<r decoction of <rrepn 
walnut husks; and after it has boiled an hour, strain it, and 
put in (he silk, winch must hrst be steeped in luke-warm water. 
'J'iien take it out from the walnut liquor, dry it, and havinn- 
soaked it in water a second lime, put it into a kettle oi Idark 
dye made, (as before-mentioned,) with logwood, vine<rar, and 
copperas, and proceed according- to tlie directions. 



(TN\AMON »K()\V\._Take half a pound of (rroimd 
ca!n\vo(,d, tie it in ;t tiiin ban-, and put it into a brass or tin 

k< i;!e with two L'alh'us ol" soft water, Ue.il it a (|uarter of au 
hour. Then strain it, and put in the artich-, wf>t theroui^fi! v lo 
^^■''''•'■- ^>M' !t ear. tu!!y, and n p.at the dipping till it takes 
the e(.'!(air (•:iaipitt,e! y, 

With the dye that is left, you may obtain different shades 
of brown by addiun-, ni small (juantities, more or less copperas ; 
giving it another boil 



Of.IVK rOT.OrR.-^l^al te.n-,.th(r fustic, and walnut .)r 
yellow-oak [)ark. For a bri<rhi (,iive use more fustic, for a dark 
one more wahuit bark. W h.ai the li.pn.l is wejl e..l.Mire.i, 
strain it, and put in tia^ a.rtiejo we! ; addinir, for a hirht tint a 
little Vitriol; for a dark caie a little coj.peras, lu set the eobair. 



lOi 



C IT N T R Y I\[ A N N E R OF DYEING 
wool. OR YARN. 



iM:MARKs. 

All wool or woolleji yarn sluadd, ht fore dy<.;in^', he well 
Vvashed or se(>ured in stroiiiji; warm so'a}>-suds, so as to free it 
entire] V frem -rrr-ase : othf^twise it will not t.ike thcMJye. It 
shenb! (lien l>e opened out, and dried ; and before it noes into 
the dve, it should i)e nr.ide thorou'ddv wet with cold water, and 
then si^ueezed out and (ipened. When it comes out of the dye, 
and has taken the colour properly, it must he; put in the open 
uir to dry. If raw wool, spread it on boards; if yarn, hanrr it 
on lines. \Vh' n it i- qrdte dry, take n bn/^ket of wrirm water 
(lait li<i!) ;i;!!l miv v\!!h 11 a lea-cup tu!i «d' lye. W'a^li the 
aiticle tliroun-h two of these warm iye-waters, and rinse it in 
cold water till tiie colour ceases to come out. Then dry it 



a^iaiiL 



Kaw Wool siiuuld be carefully picked and opened before 
washinir for the dye. 

All dy(!-stutls miu'.t be strained before using. The kettle 
should then be washed, the dye-stulF ri'turned to it, and the 
a; I i(de to be cfiloured pui ni. 

'i'he barks used in dyrin^r shnuld be tak( n from the trees in 
A|)ril or May, when tlie sap is in them. 



THROWN'. — In the sjlriu^" wlifu the sap eojaes uji, take a 
>ufriei, nt (piantitv ofh:ir!\ fV.tm the white waluut tree. Spread 
in n u,\) nr in a liajt !.,o:' I ,' pi' n'H:;! ' <vr '''f this Igarka -Ami n 



1 1^' 



102 



Tin. HOJ 8E HOOK. 



4.. 

If 



^ifif 






n 



I ; 



'A 



$ 






i .^■•- 



•n 



I 

mi 



thin layer of pirko,i woo!, aliomatoly, till the liib is two-thirds 
full. Thf'ii j)our on (iioiinh of ('old soft watrr to cover tfic 
whole. L-ay sloncs on the lop to keep it down. Let it stand 
some days in the sun and air, till the water heconies a very 
dark hrown. Ivx'arnine the wool to se(; if it is thoroinr})!y 
coloured. Tlien op«>n it out, and spread it on hoards to dry. 
When dry, if you find it not dark enouirti, repeat the jirucess. 
It is best to do it in warm weather. 

Another sha(h> of hrown may he ohtainod hy niixirnr with a 
large (juanlity of the white walnut hark, a small [umum of the 
fjark of sour suniaeh. ^ 

A light brown may be produeed hy hoilinnr, in a brass kettle, 
some bark of tlio white maple with a lump of alum. 



TH'l'F rOLOI R. — Take in ihe spring some birch bark. 
1 ut it into a brass kettle, and })our on sufficient water to cover 
it. 'i'hrna.-hla proportionate piece of alutn, (l^or instance, ai)out 
half the size of an o<:g >< I.,ru*"r,) and let it h-ul half ;itj "hour. 
Siram i(, and r* turn, it to the kettle, which must previously he 
washed clean. Tiuii havino- thorouirldy wetted tin- articio by 
dijiping it in weak lyo. and scpjo.^/o,] and. shook it out, j.ut it 
into th«; dye, and let h boil till it has taken the C(dour coni- 
pletedy. It', wSim dry, you find it too })ah>, repeat the dyoin<r. 



0RA\(;K COI.orR.—Put into a brass or eo})prr kettle 
some black-alder bark (taken in t];e spring) and a suilici* ricy 
of sr.ft water to cover it. Ihnl and .-dxini it till vou have a 
r^trop.'.y line colour, and then blrain it. Have ready a r;ither 
!;tror!g lye and dip the wool or \\o,,ll, n into it, then sijue'. ze it 
"iit, and put the arli(de iut, ihe dy.. v.hih- w arm, letiiu- it 
remain m it till the li'.|uid gets cuid. At!, iv. ,ods squeeze it, 
'■per! i» nut, and dr^ ]i j.j ftig ^ir. 



i 



C O V \ T R Y M A N \ i: R O F !) \ j; I N C . 



103 



KJvl). — StefM^ five pounds of Hra'/dl wood for a week in rain 
or nver water : then boil it in a sudicient (juantity of water to 
cover the yarn you intend dyeing. First soak the yarn m 
alum-water so as complettdy to saturate it. Then (wliile wet) 
boil it in the dy«», which must be ])rcviously strained. Tiien 
open it out and dry it. 

Afterwards take a bucket of warm (not hot) water without 
soap, and mix. v\ it.h it a tea-cup full of ly(^ Wash the y;;rn 
tims, (Lirough two warm waters, and r!ns(^ it till the colour 
ceases to come out. "J'his must always be done with dvai 
yarn. 



\ FJ.fiOVV. — i>oil togetlier two-tliirds of blaidv oak })ark and 
one-third of imdvory, with sutlicicut water to cover tlu' yarn, 
which mie-^t tirst be steej)ed in ahua-water. When the two 
harks have Ixdled togr>tli(^r till they produce the colour you 
v/a!;1, strain the licpud, and put t.he yarn into it W(>t. 

Tiie bark of the s\M'et ap|)le tree will dye a guoii yellow. 



lUiKl'i AND (jRFFN. — A W(:ek before you wish to dye 
ihe arti( le, get two ounces of indigo and four ounces of oil of 
vitriol : mi.\ them toQrether in a clean bottle, cork it tightly, 
a.nd let it stand to irduse : shakirn/ il several times (^very day. 
This, if used by itsell, will nuike a blue <iye diluted with 
water to any tint you wish. When added to certain barks, it 
will make a green, as f>llows: 

Take tuo-tliirds oi black uak h.irk and oui -'hird ,.\' huk'Ty 
bark, ^stripped frou! the trees in April or Mav/j aud h-ii iht ui 
foijether m sott wafer tor twelve luaar-.. Ai'ter whieii ,-jram 
the liijiod, and mix with it the infusion ot' imii'iij and i>\] of 
viiri oj which you have mnd'^ a week previous. Then dip th*'* 



yarn ii^t i alu'u- \\ aJ-i, m\>\ w hii" \\ < f -'• 



she 



dye. The 



¥ Ml 



104 



Tin: HOUSE BOOK. 



Ih ' 



I. 



•i'^' 

'■t,'^ 

U^.: 



-n 



|ii' 



^ 



'I 

f 



i 



iour siiincient yarn for 



above quantity of ingredients wiJI col. 
tv\ (i coverkts. 

VVl.cn U„, y„„ has taken the colour co,u,,lei..Iy. o,,.„ „ ,„,, 
an.l sjiread jt to ,lry in tlio shade. 



l!I.ACK._Ma|.:n a .l.M-octiou of hlu. Al.p,,,, ,n„..,,|u 1,^ 
i-u,s„„ U,..m coarsely, an,i then ,K.„rin, on ,h,.„;,,oi|j,„; 
wau.r ,„ ,h. ,ro|,oruo„ of a .alio,, oC wa„. .o a ,,o,„„l ,„■ „,„: 
trails. I,e, ,ho ,l,.coct,on sUm.l Cor throe or fo„r .|avs or ,„oro 
'■"-■•-"t "V-luontly. lT.,,aroatthosa„.e,„„o;ina„,„h,; 

v.--,a.lococti,,,,.ra,.,ar.or,,ra,Hn,n,lo.Vh,,,,..l|,,.u i, 

-- i'-r ounces of .roon copperas. ,o ,u-o ,,„ar,s .,,■ I :„. 

«r'ter, a„,l !e, it staml also three or ,„ore , lavs, sn-rrin.r „ ,,■„.; 
AlUTwanls s,ra,,, ,he deeoeUon of .all-,,,,, i,„„ ^i,,,,, „^ 

-IT« l-.le. put ,„to i, the woollen or yarn, ar„l ho.l i, , no 
'"'"-. Then take it out; e.npty an.l uash the ket,h, an,l 

s.non ,„,.., it the ,lecoc,i-.„on„,w an,( coppoTas. ,.,„ ;„ 

"- varn a,al,, ; han, „ ov,.r ,he iire. a,„l keep „,„ ,v,^ f.Mu-o 
'-"■-"— Mo„.hea,, ho,,lonotlet,tco,,„.t„a|,.„|- fo- 
'l"-'.'y ,ak,n.o,„ the yarn an.l exposin,:i, a linh. while „, 
"" ■■"'■'' ^^■'"'^'' »'" ^'i- ■' - l"-ter hiack. When ,t has 

«l'"-".'l.l.y ..ken the ,,y„, spread it out „ .Irv. an,l af,;vwanls 
iv.ish It ,„ warn, water u,,x,.,l w„h a litll,. kr ,n,i •• 

' ' J ' ' .inn 111* !i f 111^(3 
H \\ t i . 



? '■ 



tl 



105 



I N S E C T S, RAT S, M I C E, &c. 



IIEMEDTES FOR BED-BUCS OR CIIINCTTES.—In 

new houses, wlu^n' the iiabits ot" the family are neat, and a (.rcnc- 
rii! attention is paid to cleanliness tlirouuhout, tliere will he 
litlic dantrer of i)ed-l)u<j:s ; but on rcniovin'_y to aii old house 
which has had various occupants, these disnusting aiul intolera- 
ble insects frts'juently make their appearance with the com- 
mencement of tlie warm weather (and sometimes before) from 
havin<^ been unpardonably allowed to get possession even of the 
ertnices of thtj wood-work on the walls ; and if the chambers 
•are pajured, they often contrive to eO'eet a lodn;ment between 
the ed'jes of the pap.er and the plasterintr. In this case the 
nin^>! etlicietsl reju.Mlv is to have the paper tern oi], (tirst loosen- 
ini^f it hy vvashiai.^ it ;ill over with a br(toiii er brush' (iipped in 
w.'.t' r,) and the walls purified by white-washin-'r or paintirifT. 
If i)ULri '''re found in the cievices of the stirbase or wash-board 
of ail old h<M]S( , their haunts should l-e well washed with a 
stron^f dei oetinn of tobacco boihul in water, or with a <lecortion 
of red f)e]>pers. ff th(se washes (whi(di hy fri-qucnt re'])elifion 
j.n'nerally t^iiceeed) should fail to destroy tlu^m, tlu^ crevices, ;>> 
a last resiMiree, should he rubbed with quicksilver beaten up 
with whitf nl" e(/(jr ; and afterwards tilled up wilh jiiiitv or wad- 
diuLi;, >r w ith tjiiiek-liuie luixed with water. 

if on moviu«r into a house, it is found, to !)e t'r( r tV,»i)i hu^rsnr 
(.th( r virniin. the utnw>st care' should he taken to k( ej) it set; 
reuieiiihor!ii'_r always the lionuly [-rdvcrh tha.t "an oiuic?' el 
preventiun is worth a pound ul'cure.'' 



106 



TJii: Hov>n: HOOK. 



INSECTS, Ii\TS, MICE, K T C 



107 



i f 1 
1 ' ' 

• if M . 



* i 



\i . 



^ t 



>n 



An absurd idea is .siratMr,.],- Diwiicnf ti,-*f } ., . 

r,^ >) jM( v.iKiH lii.il bu(r.s never ori'n- 

;;;''^' '" - '-""'s-.y b»ist...„i. x,„,i.i„, ,,„ ,„. „„^„ ,, ,; 

llure ,s „o w.,,.,,l of which a lH..l,s.eacl ..;.„ iHMuaclu lin.t pos. 
sesses any ,,uality whid, ,. inh.ical to tl,.-,,,. (.1,1 h..ls„-a,ls 

areofco„rse,„or.lik,.|yto he „,r,.s,„a with huns than new 

-us; a„,l lh,r,.ror.. ,t i. not a.lvisahh. to bay then, at a,u.,i„„ 
or m any seco.ul-haaj nay. (;ot l,ed,st„a,lH ar,., of all oth... 
tin. .„o.t proaucttv. of h„.s. Th,- oi,l-fashi,„..,l pn:,ss-l„.d^ 
sieads (whi,-h w,.r.. „ra,l,. u, upon out « l,.n wa„le,i at ai„ l„ .,,,.1 
.iur,,,. the: .lay u rre turr,, ,1 .,p and shut vvitlnn ,„ldi,„r ,i„or, 
Bu as to rcscable a uard-rohe pn..ss) could never eve'^, w„h 
tl.e sroatest care he kept free from the,,,. We have heard the 
Baiae ohject.on made to the sofa-heds, wluch have l,een tried 
by persons who desired to use the sanre rocn both as a parlour 
anu a chandler. We belteve that m our Atnerioan clin.ate. no 
I'odstead or beddtu-r, which durin,r the .lay is shut up ..nurely 
Irotn the air, can lon-j continue fre,= IVon, thes,. ins.vis 

!'•- b„ar,lin.-.chools, h„spua!.s, barracks, pre-o„s, ae„l all 
ph.ces where the sleepin. apartn.ents are sntall. or where many 
i- r.s<,ns sleep n, the san.e roon,, no hedstea.ls are cunparable 

to those n.ade crmrely of tron ; whteh, however, should always 
b.' painted to prevent their rusting. 

ii"t,'S will not only infest bedslea.ls, but also couch,.., sof.s 
cnbs, cradles, easy-chairs, ward-roh,;.presses, an,l ...h.^r arti-' 
'■lesol lurniture that are k,.pt in bed-rooms ; th.^refore .n.,, 
ear,, should he taken to ,nsp,.ct these thin^rs fr..,|u,.ntly. \v,. 
l-ave beard even .d' hu.s .,,tin,r into pian,.s that w,.rek..p, ,„ 
'"-r,l,n.,-schoolcba,nb,.rs. Hair trunks sbouhl ....^r b,. p|a,.,.d 

>" he.l-ro.aus, as ,h..y are ap, ,o ,.„l!e,.,, bn.rs, ,h.,s. and n„„b. 
i'i^wellno. tousehair.r.mksalali. If those „n,.,tl„.r are 
'■'■-.b re.l too ..vp,.„s,v,: for eomn,,,,, purposes, ,t is b,.tter ,„ 
^ub»tuute struns wocb., boxes, pain,e,l on the .ai.sid.., and 



furnislRMl with hiiifrt^s, handles, and a lock and key. Tlipsc 
boxe.s are exct !h nt ibr travellinrr, and also to hold articles at 
lionie. |}y bespcakin^r tiiem of a carpenter, or cabijiet-maker, 
tin y <-an be obtained with little trouble and expense. 

Serv.uits (who in ^reneral sleep too soundly to feel nuicb 
annoyance from any thinn) are very apt to necrlrct the care of 
til. if ifeds, and fre(juently deny tb<' (\xistence of biijrs in then], 
liii 'hey become infesUMl to a d(>u:ree that isdifhcultto remedy. 
When this is tlic casf% it is a chance if the nuisance dvt^s not 
^i!rr:u! to ihc ap.irtincnts of the funily, the insects beinrr con- 
voyod ttiither on tiie (dothos of the servants. A </ood house- 
keeper will <r!iard airaiiist this evil iu tinu-,by personal inspec- 
tion of the servants' ;ip;irtin»>nts, and by iosistiinr on the 
cverllcnt ]>racth(,' (,f spreadinir «,ut all their bed-clothes on 
'•liairs, every rnorninL^ as soon as they are up, and also on 
raisirifr the window-sashos, for the purpos«^ of ventilatino- the 
room ; oven in the co!do-t woaihor. 

If, however, t'lK n Kodstrads ar<> a. tually iut^sted, they 

bhuuld be lak« n apar*, carried into the yard, a.nd the joints and 

j)ins first scahb'd witli hot water, and tin-n washed with cold 

strrinir soap-suds ; as also th(> sackire^-bottorn ; the servants, if 

necessary, sleepino- on th(> lloor tbr one niirbt, til! tlie vvlifdo 

has had time to dry thoroughly. Hrf^re the bedstt-id is pmt 

tonrcther arrain, the joints should be well rubbed with stron^r 

mercurial ointment ; or witli some of the other a})plica.tions 

recommended for the destruction of insects. A servant's bed- 

stiiid cp.n hardly be considered sab', unless it is taken down 

am. cleaned oner a month durinf.r the warm weather; and (Ini 

unstress of the house should sec that it is doiu\ 

It !s rmt \v(d! to j)!a( (' bedsteads with on(> side against the 
\va!l. 'i'his incieast\s the heat, obstructs the free circulation of 
-tir, :!rid adds tr, the ditlicullv of ke('j)iter them i'rrv from !)U<rs 



,1 



108 



T II i: H V S F. BOO K. 



Kven in a 8mall Toora, sonxi sacrifice of space should he 
inadc for the [)iirj)osc of havin<.r the bedstead to stand out in 
the lloor; so that only the head may be asrainst th.e wall. 

It is an excellent custom to have all the bedsteads washed 
at the; joints with co/d suds made of brown or soft soap, Ti-ini- 
larly once a week, (fur instance, on Friday,) spread ini.r a 
C(/ars(^ cloth under (^r round the feet, to catch the droppinns of 
the water. After thr bedstead is washcid, the beddintr should be 
kepi all day sprea.d about the room, or in a back balcony, atul 
liie bed n(jt niade ui) tili towards eveninfT. 

If j(ro}»er precautions art' observed, tliere is liltlf dari<rcr oi'a 
well manaf* d fimilv beinc troubled with insects in tbrir brd- 
steads; unless, as remarked above, they chance to niovr into 
an old or ill k»'pt house. It will br \\-ell then, as a prcvt^ntive, 
to cover all the cracks or joints of tise l)edstead with sirrir.nr 
nu rcurial ointment, rubbinir it in with the linfrer. A small 
\}<>\ of liiis ointin<-ni may be found iisi.'ful in travelling, to rui) 
(,'f! tiir licdstrad before you r» lire to it. 

Oup of the best rrnuMlics and preventives for bed-l.ufr:-;, is to 
procure trom a drutrj^ist an ounce ol tjuicksilver, and beat it in 
a mortar to a stron^j;^ froth, with ihe whites of two ejrcrs ; or if 
you Wish it very j)owerful, and thick like ;in ointment, use the 
white of one ('(ra only. If li({uid, S})road it with the tV'alhor 
of a (pull : or, what is still better, with a l<ir!.re old cajnel's 
liair brush, all over the cracks and puns of the bedstead, (not 
lortrettinfT tlu' under side of all the joints,) and see that it j)ene- 
trates 1liorr>U!i;liiy. If you have made an ointment of it, rul» it 
on \\ ith your fmn;er. This is considt-red a still better remedy 
than the conuui'ii mercurial omtm(;nt, bu! camiot al\vay> be as 
]»r'»uij)lly obtained, 

'i'o wash the joints and pms oi' the l.KMl^tead lfe(piently with 



INSECTS, KATS, MICE, ETC, 



109 



sweet spirits of nitre is a tolerable remedy for bugs when they 
sre not numerous. 

Corrosive sublimate, mixed with spirits of wine, and rubbed 
into all the cracks, will also destroy them ; but it must be 
repeated fre(iuently, washing it well into the cracks with a quill 
feather, or a soft brush. 

A very <rood way of keepinfr bedsteads free from bunrs, is, 
after a weekly wasliino; with cold soap-suds, to take a spomn^ 
and wet every joint and pin with a mixture made as follows. 
Put into a (juart bottle equal quantities of spirits of wine and 
spirits of turpentine, addin<r a lar<re table-spoonful of oil oi 
vitriol, and an ounce of powdered camphor. Cork it ti^rhtly, 
and keep it for use. This should be applied every week, be- 
fjinninrr the first of March, and continuinu;- till Nov«^mber. 

A m^fsl tjj'iciual remedy ag-ainst bufrs is to have all the bed- 
steads in the house taken down every sprinir, (in March, for 
instancp,) and after washin(x the joints witli cold water and 
brow i! ^.iiap, to. have the whole bedstf^id completely varni-;be<i 
(even on the inside of the joints) with varnish procured tVom 
a cabinet-makt^r; or gettin«j^ a cabinet-mak(>r's man to come 
and do it. The expense will be small in comparison to the 
bent^fit. 

Also), car(dully stop up with putty all the cracks and cre- 
vices, liowever small, fd" the wash-board and surbase. 

Or for strjppinir the cracks, yon may use <|uick-linu' madt! 
into a dou-jh with water, and })lastered into all tlie crevi'-es 
with a knife. 



CM)(M\!?()ACllKS.~Kvery house should hr p.ro)Vi(]e(l with 
cockroach traps. They are made of brown i artheo.ware, and 
are to be bou<rbt for a trifle at the pottery shops, or in the 




m 

4*1 



i.i. 



m. 






r. 



10 






no 



THE H r^ S E R K. 



Philiidclpjiia market. Bait tlieni with molasses mixed with a 
litiK' w.itcr, and set them ahout at ni<<ht, when the lights are 

('oekronches Rhoiild not be allowed to increase, or tliey will 
soon herome an intolerable nuisance; and when very nume- 
r')us, !i is extremely diilicult to n-et rid ;jf them. It is best, as 
S'Min as the' !ir>,l one: makes its appearanc*', to resort immedi- 
ately to CiitTiivc measiires for their destru'tiion ; for if taken 
111 Diuc, ihcy arc easily exiirpat(M|,. j,( t every cockrf)ach th;it 
is tound on tlic stairs ht^ imm(Mliat.dy killed; for if they once 
<n't into the ujiper })art of the house there is dann-er of tiicir 
ereepm«( into the hods, and hndintr their way into trunks, band- 
h^'X'^s, and clolhos-presses, v\ here tiiey will eat iedes in articles 
<M clMthinji, it" net discoviTed in time. 

'('he hellebure plan!,, laid in larn-e fjuantities in places that 
they frcfjuent, will sometimes expel them. 

A })Miind of chloride- of linie mixed with a -juart of water, 
anil jdiieed where they abound, is destructive te> Itiem. 

Another remedy f )r cnck-roaches is te bfu! the roeis of the 
pokeherry plant till .piite dissolved in the water, and then mix 
it with molasses, and set it about in old sauc<TS. 

The f>;b)wjn,^r is a <.r,.od remedy :— Take six cents wortli, or 
more, of powdered white lead, (you may obtain it at a paint or 
dni;r store,) put n on an rd.l i)late, and mix it with In.iian meal, 
and coars(; brf>wn sui^ar or molasses. Then with a little water 
make it. mto a })aste, usintr for the {uirpose a broad-biade.l 
knibs or an iron spr.on. Spread it on old plates or saucers, an.! 
bet it about wherever you have se,m er„-k-roach« s. They wi!i 
rat it readily, an<l it wili destroy them. It is best to mix it 
Iresh every (iay till ti,e cock-roaches disappear. 

Arsenic i)owder strewed amon^r bread and butter-crumba, 



INSECTS, RATS, MICE, ETC. 



Ill 



und laid at idoht about thfdr liaunts, will eiTectually destroy 
them. As it is a deadly poison, take care to sh.nt out your cats 
•,ind dosrs from the rooms in which you have piared it. 

wScahlin"- with a liot decoction of tobacco the holes and cracks 
from which the cock-roaches issue, will greatly diminish their 
numbers. 



FLEAS. —Fleas are often hrouc-lit to a house by cats and 
do<rs; for which reason those animals should be kept very 
eiean. In tht^ country, if ])if^s are allowed to be near tlie 
house, they will soon cause it to abound in lleas. So also 
will tin; immediate nei<rhbourhood of a stable. Shavinnrs, 
if permitted to accumulate and Viv about, will also produce 
them. To prevent their ori<rinatin(r in blankets and other 
woollens that are put away for the summer, it is well to 
spread among the folds numerous sprigs of penny-royal. 
Shreds or Hakes of tobacco are also good for this purpose ; so 
are lumps oi Campiior, brok<;!i smail. 

In (-atchiu"- lleas the best and surest way to kill them is to 
put them instantly into a basin of water. * - 

Sprii^s of wild myrtle, or ptmny-royal, or small flatcamphor- 
bajjs dispersed about your under-clothes, ami conveniently f lat- 
ent d, will ketp fieas from molesting your person during the 
day. 

At night, let penny-royal bo scattered over the b(Ml-covers, 
and laid under the j)illows and bolster; strewing a l;irge quan- 
lily between the sacking and the mattrass. Wash yoursell 
bef)re i{oing to bed in w.iter that has had essence of pieimy- 
re) al mixed with it. 

Fumi<r-ati.)n with brimston<^ will destroy lleas; e\|iosing to 
the vapour .f the burning sulphur all the articles that are 
infeste'. u iih th -m. 



J 



* •' 



J 12 



TIIK nOXJUr. BOOK. 



When HtMs arc t'outid on catH, dogs, &c., they may be extir- 
\rdiid by nil>i)in!r tlu' aniiiial all over with comiaon S!iull, taking 
fare iliiil it does not toueii the ev<;s. 



I'KK 'KFiTS. — 'i'o destroy (^rickets, put snutlinto the holes 
and (racks froni whence they c')nie out. 



I'LIKS. — I'lns may he destroyed hy the following prej>ara- 
lion : Dissolve tiinr drachms ol' extract oi" quassia, (to he [)ro- 
ei.irf'd at tin' liruu'gists,) in a pint of Ixiiling vvat«;r, and thenn.ix 
in a litlic brown sugar or molasses. JSet it about on old 
saucers. 

Fly-traps (which are two flat broad pieces of wood, shaped 
into handles at the bottom, and umled at llie ba.ck by a leathern 
h!n;,re,) are lised iii some houstis. Thi^y must be spread 
open, smeared with molasses on the inside, and stotjd up or 
hiMi'j in a ciinvtTuenl jihiee. When filled witii tlies, shui the 
trap h.ird, so as to kill tiitm. 

Cold <xreen tea very strong, and swe^^tened with brown 
Mi.;.ir, will, vvli'Ti set about m saucers, attract the ilies and 
destroy them. 

j^nnclies of iuiiigo weed, or of penny-royal, stuck al)Out tho 
harness is ^aid lo k<'ep lli(;s from horses. 



MLISQI I'i'OMS. — 'I'he common opinion that mnsquitoes 
are anra.cted by the light, we believe to be errcjntjous. Out of 
(h.'(»rs they are much more numrrous in dark shady [)lac('s than 
in ('pen suiisiiine ; and the time tiial they get into the houses, 
is in the (Iti-k il the t vcning, bt tore the candles or lamps are 
lighted. They are very <iui(k-sighted as to the apjjroacli of 
d.mger, and in li yiiiLi to kill them on a wall, it is best not to 
atteiiint to strike thoui With the palm cd'your hand, but liKTcly ' 



INSECTS RATS, MICE, ETC. 



113 



with your finger us they are less likely to perceive the impend- 
ing blow. 

i\lus([uito nets are somewhat of safe-guards from tln^ incnr- 
sions of this tormenting insect, and in the south they an^ c;)n- 
sidered indispensable. But where the musquitoes are not very 
numerous, it may be well to omit the us(^. of nets, as they cause 
an uncomfortable feeling of confinennmi and oj)pressi()n in a 
warm night, from their iinp<'ding the free circulation of ;iir 
around the bed. Also a few stray nuisquitoes will gfuerally 
contrivi! to <'-et within the net before you let it down, and 
cause you much annoyance. Terrible, and, indeed, fatal acci- 
(h nts fiave happened from the inus(|uito net catcliing the tlame 
of the candle, ami setting the bedding on fire. 

i\lus(piito nets are made of millinet, coarse ieno, or co.irse 
hobbinet. They are thrown over the tester or top-rail fd' the 
bed, and han(/ on all sides quite down to the floor. A mnsfiuito 
bar is the net str( tcdied on a frame of wood, so as tu screen 
a 1"\v ])<<>* !>ed., Jrom the incursions of tlii'-;e insects. 

It IS said that you may ii"et rid of mus(juitors \nr the ni'/ht, 
by c.irrying into your room a shovel or (diafing-(!ish of hot 
coals, and havin<' thrown on it some lirown su<rnr, close all the 
w indows and doors, and let it burn till the smoke has died awav. 

If you j)ut soun^ eau de cologne or S{)irits of campiior in a 
basin of cold water, and wash yourstiJf well with it jireviniis 
to going to bed, the muscjuitoes will he less likely to trc^ubb' 
you. 

Take a litrht in vonr hand, car* felly =?eareh the walls of vour 
room all round, the last thirej befiri' yon lie down, and kill 
every mus<^uitoyou see. If you are unwilling to stam tin w;dl, 
you can catch and destroy them with ihe corner of a towel or 
ha.ndkerchief taken between your thumb and fingrr. JNisuii-, 
who have had practice can d..t this very dexterously. 






J 



I ,- 

4'' 



114 



T H E II O IT S E n K. 



If you have siifricirnt rosoluiion lo refrain from riihbinpr a 
iTiiiSijiiiff) bite, and your biood is in a frnoi] state, it will seldom 
inflame or ecMitiiiue troubh\some. It, liowi ver, the idles do 
milame, and eause you much inconvenience, it will be well to 
( o(d and j)urify your bbfod by takinfr a wine-ulass, or more, of 
ilissolved cpsom salts, about day-liixbt ev(Ty morninor, for 
awhile. To have this always at hami, put a (juarter of a 
pound of salts, in a clean f]uart bottb' : fill it up with water, 
(ritlior w;irui or cold) cork it tii^htly, and kfcp it in a (doset 
in your rooin. 

We know no hotter remedy fir mn.scjuito bites tlian salt and 
vmeiiar, which if applied immediately, and before liso skin is 
brok(>n by rubbinir, will speedily extract th(^ venom, allay the 
irnlation, and cause the swellinfr to subside without le.ivin^ 
any mark or iraco. In mus(jUito season, it is well to ke(^p \n 
your ( losot a little bottle of vinoirar, and a cujj o! salt, with a 
small plato or s;uic,t \(> mix tliom on. Moisti'n some of the 
sail wiih -liiii.'itnt viiifirar to lorm a italic, (it musi nut be 
t])!n "T iupiid,) Ainl then piaster it on thick all over the bite. 
Let it st/iv (ui till It falls oif ol' its* If, and then if necess;iry, 
r* new the application. 

It is said that a paste of salt and vinerr-ar, if immediat<ly 
applied, has been known to extract the poison from the bife of 
a snake. At least it may be well to try it, till other remedies 
can be ])roe(ired. 

Washinn inus(juito bites with lead-water is a nrood remedv. 
So also is bay-ruiu. 



WTS. — \'\w inserts are more dilTu-ult to exterminate than 
the little red ants with w hi(di manv boust s are infestod. They 
may be kept under, by Irequently se.ddincr with boilnin; watt r, 
•h> nurl;?; niid pdiu'es frojti whieh tlipv issue. To smear the 



INSECTS, R A T S, M ICE, E T C. 



115 



cracks of the closets between the shelves and the wall witli 
eorrosive subUmate will destroy them ; but as it is a deadly 
poison, it must be used with caution. Dishes and jars eon- 
taininir articles that tin; ants seem to like, should be set in pans 
of salt and water, and the pan should be surrounded with a 
riiiT of salt, if they infest the sideboard, let the feet be set 
constantly in tin or iron cups hlled with salt and water. 

A circle of tar sprea.l round each foot of tlie beach that 
holds the hives, will p'-event ants from reaching the bees and 
destroyino- the honey. 



MOTHS. — Many persons erroneously suppose that the best 
w-ay to ])revent moths from ^^eitincr into woollens or furs, is 
occasionally throujrh the summer t(* han^r tliese articles out in 
the sun and air. 'J'his is a c^reat mistake, as it is by such ex- 
posure that the moths are most likely to ^ret into them. On 
tlte contrary, m tlse sprin;^r, when t.hr- seas.nv is over for furs 
■uv\ wr.oiiens, th.'y should be^ well shaken and brushed, and 
then wrapp(>d vp tKjIitly in linen, laymu anionu" tl.eni ii!mi>s 
of camphor; handluls of fresh hops; shreds of ^rood tobacco, 
or cuttimrs uf Kussia leather; or strew amonrr tluau irround 
black pepper or cedar shavin^rs ; all of which are p.reventives to 
moths: but the camphor is by tar tlie best, and most certain, 
p-.irticularly for furs. For blankets and carpets, you may use 
the best cliewincr-tobacco pulled to pieces, or tobacco stems. 
All woollens, ^c. should be kept durinfr tiie sumne r, 
unopened, in dark (dosets, presses, or (diests. If by any (diai. e, 
or nerrlect, a press or closet should become ln!'«'st,ed with moths, 
let it be well scalded \vith a str(;n!: decoction o\' tobacco and 
lepealedly sprinkled with spirits of camphor. If this does not 
expel thes.- troublesome insects, it is better lo give uj) keepmcr 
wo.-lh 11^ in that press, and to appropriate it in some other use. 



3. 



J 



116 



THE IK) USE BOOK. 



INSECTS, RATH, MICE, ET C. 



117 



(I.L'sts of *-an.p[,or wood (for which many persons send to 
India) arc excellent for koepinnr woolicn.s, and well worth tho 
<-os(. li inulls and tippets are kej)t always closely shut up in 
their own boxe-s, with lumps of camphor, and shreds of tobacco, 
'-ntmually interspersed about the fur, they will l,e in no dan' 
P r from the moth. Furs had best be put away for the season 
''1^ early as March. 

< V-!ar presses are preferable to all others, for keepinjr eloth 
cloihcs or other woolhm articles. 

ilair trunks rarely fail to introduce moths. 

The best time for puttinir away the woollens is in April, 
iH'less the season is so backward as stili to require the use of' 
tlu'in. One blanket Ibr each bed should be kept out, and b-a 
^n ti.e clunnber-closet, that it may be at hand m ease of an 
''"<'"niiortably cool ninrbt m the summer. 

nannels should never be put out of the way entirely : as in 
a climate so variable as ours, they uiay be needed occasionally 
even in July and Aurrust. 



ti 



HKMKDIKS FOR STI.\(.S OR niTKS OF JNSKCTS 
-II- Slur,,- n„ yo„r !kuk1 or Oot, |,i„n,r, it .iir.r.ly im,o o.l.i 
^'" r, (Mr,,,,,. «al, a„.i water is l,Hl,.r Mill,) a,„i l,„|,| it there 
I s,.,r,e <„l,er re,„o,|y is pr,.p;,n.l. A stin.4 >n •..„>■ plac will 
'"■ -H-li rWieve,l l,y plasteri,,,,- „n „ i,„„„.,|,ately s„„„. .-lay or 
•■"rlh, .,„x..,l wul, a l,„le wat,.r to ,he oonsistenco of ,i,i,.k ,„u,| 
''"W,l,.r,.,l <.l,alk „,oistene.l wi.l, water is .oo,l. A paste of 
:^;ilt vv( t with vineH-nr is excellent. 

A slieo of raw onum is said to allay the pain from the sfin^r 
"i a wasp or bee; or you may wet the part, and rub a pi. ce 
""-I'^-ipon ,1. It ,s also very n<,od t. f,a,be the wound 
^vi'li la.ulanum, r.r with bartshorn, or uitl 
or u itli su,-, t ( il. 



h spirits i,\' camphor, 



All the above applications should be repeated till the inten- 
sity of the pain subsides, if the stincr shows a disposition to 
inflame, keep the place constantly wet with a rdg soaked in a 
solution of l*russian blue an<l soft water. A poultice of cold 
lead-water aiui bread-crumbs, is also a very soothing- n^medy. 
if there seems to he danger of the stinjr becoming a sore, 
(which is sometimes the case when the blood is in a bad state, 
or if the stints are numerous,) take a dose of salts, and refrain 
froin animal food. It may be well also to lose some blood. 

Another remedy, is to hold the part that is stunj/, in })earl-ash 
and water, moderately stron<r. 

The {)ipe or hollow end of a key, pressed hard upon the 
wound, will allay tlie pain of a stinn-. 

It sometimes happens that a wasp or bee is accidentally swal- 
lowed : you may in that case kill the insect immediately, by 
takinjT a tea-spoonful of salt dissolved in a little water; this 
will also prevent the stin^ from inflaming your throat. 

If bees swarm upon your head, hold an empty hive over it 
and smoke a se^ar or <i pipe. Tiie vapour of the tobacco will 
drive them all upwards into the hive. 

The {)uin t-ause'd by the stin^r of a nettle may be much allayed 
by rubbing the part with balm, rosemary, mint, or sage 
leaves. 



HATS AM) MICE.— There is much difficulty in getting 
rid of rats and mice, when they once have found their way 
into a house. A trood cat is one of the best remedies for 
mice, but some cats are afraid to encountr>T a rat. 

'I'o keep out rats, the cellar and kitchen windows (if the 
kitchen is in the basement story) should, at once, while the 
house is finishing, be provided, both back and front, with wire 
gratings for the windows. Rats and mice always get in from 



il' ' 



,4 



id 



i4 



118 



THE HOUSE liOOK. 



INSECTS, RATS, MICE, ETC. 



119 



outof doors and from the nei(rhhourir;fr lioiisps ; arid if the base- 
ment windows have merely iron bars, they will easily slip 
between them. No cellar door should be ke[)t ojxmi after 
sunset; indeed, we have more than once seen a rat troinfr 
down into an open cellar in broad daylij^lit. 

When any holes are found about the walls, tliey should be 
immediately and effectually stoj)ped up; with brick and mor- 
tar if outside, and li inanlc, by filiinfr them with ])uttv or 
waddinir, or waste ncjwspaper, and nailing over them bits ui 
board ; or rather sheet-lead or tin. 

In travellin^r, it is well to examine your chamber befnre yon 
jro to bed, and if you fmd any holes, stop them up for the ni^rht, 
by stuffing in, as tiL^htly as possible, old newspaper, rarrs, or 
any thinjr you can r-onveniently obtain for the purpose. A hob- 
in the floor may be covered by j)lacin(r your trunk upon it. It 
is a (rood j)lan to have amontr your bairiraire a small mouse-trap, 
(carefully wrapped up, so that the rou<rhness of the wires 
may not injure any other article,) and t(; bait it and s.'t it on the 
tloor of the room m wiiich y.xi slccj). 'i'liis, by cairinni.r the 
mice, will prev(>nt your beinir disturbed with their runnin.r 
about the room, and perhaps over your bed. 

The common ca^e-traps are the b»-st, and may be bou<rht for 

■J f-^ "* 

a trifl(> at tb.e hard-ware stores. There ar.; sprin(.Mraps so con- 
structed as to kill the mice at the moment they are cau;^rh! ; but 
these are dilficult to fix, and very soon isvA so much out of ordrr 
as to be usebhss. iiait the trap with toasted checsts bread and 
butter, or sweet-cake. Vou may, as a dc-oy, lay a tram of 
erumbs from the mouse-hole to the trap. Mien soon learn to 
know a trap when they see it, and consequently avoid ,r<,in^ 
near it ; therelor.> set it in a dark place, and cover it as much as 
possible with rairs, wast.! paper, hay, or any thinir tb.at wil! 
etTectually conceal from them all but the entrance; the scent 



(T 



only beinfr sufTicient to entice them to the bait. The most 
liumane manner of destrovinc a mouse that has lieen thus 
cau^rht, ii-'. to put the trap, without openinfr it, into a tul) or 
buck(!t of w-aler. 

When mice and rats have become numerous, the m.ost effec- 
tiv(^ way of cb;arin(r iliom ofl', is by jioison. Bits of broken 
glass, bottles pountled to powder and mixed with mush, or with 
cold Indian meal and water, and laid about their haunts on old 
jiiates, will very fTen(>r;illy destroy them. 

It is said that liie plant called do<r^s-ton(rue, (botanically the 
cyno(rlo})um oflicinale,) whi(di jrrows abundantly in the fields, 
will c;mse them to disa})pear, when spread profusely in the 
places that they infest. Vot this purpose, it should be nrathcTcd 
at ttie U\i\p wlien the sap is in full vi<^our, and should be bruised 
with a mallet or hammer. 

Another remedy, is to mix a larrre table-spoonful of llour 
with equal (juantities of the seeds oi' hemlock or cicuta, and 
the scr;i})innrs of stron<r old cheese, jirMindiun- them toa-etiu rtil) 
<|uite f!n(\ Set it about on old plates in places where the mice 
have app(>ared, but take care not to put it where provisions or 
any articles of tood ;ire kept. Thf same intrredients, mixt d in 
lar^ri-r (juantities, will of course destroy rats. 

Powdered arsenic, spread on bread and butter, or s\\ e( t-c;ike, 
is certain destruction t(j rats and mice ; but ^reat care should 
be taken to keej) youn<r children, and cats and dojxs, out of the 
way of it, lest tln^y (^at it in mistake. All paj)ers eontaminir 
ars»;nic, should be labelled '' Poison," and carefully bxdxed vp 
by the master or mistress of the house. 

To free a room from the smell of a dead mous(^ e>r rat ; lake 
a small eartlien vessel, in whicdi put a little pounded salt-petrt', 
(more f»r less aecordin«r to the size of the r.ooni,) and pour on a 
sufllcient quantity of oil (»f vitri.d tu saturate or wet it all 



i' 



.r 



120 



THE HOUSE no OK. 



throu^rb profusely. Tlieii place it where the unpleasant smell 
is most powerful, and leave it in the room ; sbuttino- the doors 
and windows (dosely when y.ni ^o out. In an hour or two, 
the efHuvia from the (h-ad animal v\iii h(^ no lono-er j)er- 
Cfjjtihle. 



TO PHKI\\RK KAJUMT OR SQUIRREL SKINS.-™ 

Mix a sufhei(>nt (luaistity of salt and water, strontr enoe.trh to 

hear up an e<j(/ ; and add to it a larrre lump of alum, hrokfai 
small. Warm this mixture over liie fire, hut do not ht it 
eonie to a hoil. When about blood-warm take it olf, and put 
into It tiie rabbil-skin, (which should be (juile fr<^sh,) and let it 
soak twenty-four hours or more. Then take it out and spread 
it. on a board, (tiie fiir inwards,) fisteninir it with small tack 
n;iils. Serape the skin with a knife, a.nd a thin membrano 
w'ill come oil. Next, havimr w armed up tht- liquor a second 
time, put th,o skin a'j-ain into it; and lot it romain stecpimr for 
fivo or MX hoiirs moro. 'j'iirn t;iko i! out, and nail it on the 
board to dry, tito Iwr inwards as fMd'.>ro. \\ hfai ilry, ruf) it 
M'e'il with wliitinL^ and pumice stone, and exp(iS(- it to tiie air 
lor a wet k or two. 



121 



F U E L, F I [{ E S, cV. 



W()()I).™Th(! best time to lay in woo<l, for winter fuel, is 
in the sumiiMT, as at that season the j)rice is comparatively 
low ; and if you l)tiy it (rreen, it will beconn^ dry enou^rb befe>re 
the eold weatln^r sets in. If, however, you have occasion to 
buy wood durincr the winter, wt the dryest you can find; as 
gUHm wood makes a V( ry bad fire in a cold day, and is at no 
time trood for cr»okinfr. There is, however, some economy in 
liuyinti -a few- loads of larcrc irwen wood purposely for back- 
lonrs; as there, is much inconvenience in a dry back-lorr con- 
sumin<r too rapidly. These o-reen logs should be piled in a 
{dace by themselves, and not mixed with the otlier wajud. 

Tiie host, wood for fmd is hickory, and the- next is oak. 
Lctcust is also vi'ry nood ; so are walnut, Itee(d), and maple. 
Birch is toler.dile. (Jhesnut wood is extremely unsate from 
its tendency !o snaj. and sparkle, and to throw its small coals 
all round. Pine wood is of little value as tiouse fuel. It 
bla/as treely at first, but wln^n its n sinous (pialities liave ex- 
iiah;d, (which is almost immediat«dy,) the sticks turn black, 
and seem V> moulder away without emitting any heat. Fine 
chips, hovvever, from the rat)iditv with which thev ifrnite, are 
exct llent f(^r kindlintr. 

Some fimiliesare in the practice of luiyimr all their wood in 
iar^^e locrs, and havintr them S[)!it up at once t(j a convenient 
sr/e as sorm as they are sawed, and lietore they are piled; 
<'no.iuiiia- ;l wood-splitter to come witii the sawyer and piler. 
This we /nu/w to be an excellent })lan. A load of larj/e fine 

11 






I 



*i 




1^2 



T H F H or > K 15 0{; K. 



m 



tiirkory or oak loo-s ui!l, v. hen sj.jit up, (rcsfrving always a 
Huflir-jpnt nini)b(;r for l);ick-l()<rs,) yield ;i much laror-r (jiiantity 
of tuel, than if oricrinally in siiiail scparatt^ round sticks, and 
will tlicrrdbrc <ro lanlicr. ANo tltc cost of splittin«r is hui a 
trifle, and hears no couiparison to the a(ivarsta<rp and ronvr- 
w'wDce. In huyiiii^r ^v(;o(). iho smallfr and nior(> crookc<i ii is, 
the less you hav<^ in a load ; on account of the numerous 
vacancies between the lunnerous sticks, 

'File rrcicrality of servants are extreme! y wasteful in re<rar(l 
to (u(A. In sununer afternoons they frf^qutMitly make up as 
iarfre a fire to boil the tea-kettle, us they have liad to cook the 
dinner, renderinrr the kitchen so hot, that they are ol)li(rr(i 
themselves to tak.' refu^r,. in the yard. 'I'hey should he made 
to understand that m summer, the fire seldom rcijuires addi- 
tional wood after dinner; a few chunks beiiiir sutlicient to boil 
the kettle, if it is huu'r on in time. 



VNOOI) FIK'J']S. — '['-> ninke a wond fire in an opr^n Hro 

place, bejriti by rcmovnin t[ie iindirons, avA takiie^r up, all trie 

ashes of the prcctdinn- nifrht, and sweepincj the hearth very 

eh-an. it is ^vell to wash the hearth ev.-ry mornins.r bef(;re t!ie 

new fire is made. Then brinjr forward whatever cliunks or hot 

coals are found rei!iani:.a<r from the hre that was cover<Ml up. iho 

nifrht l)ef,re; ieavinnr snlhcient space to jmt on a laru'-e b;ick- 

lo<r, on the toj) of which phice another ]<<<r sonewhat snr.iiler. 

Lay a lar^re fore-stick arrnss the andirons, and upon it, phice 

the live coals and chunks f,r kindlin-; adding:, .f n. ce>.;,ry, 

some chips, or \ni< of small h..,.]. Th.a. pib- <,„ tw<, nr three 

other sticks, (placing the smallest at the tup) tak.' the bellows, 

and blow tin- hre into a tlarne fill the wood is well e_^rr,ited. 

Ifyou wi^h a very laiMe fire, pih. two b^us on the ba(d^-!o^-, 
which ought to be ol great size, an<i lay a large middle stick 



Fl'KL, FIRKS, Err. 



123 



between the back-log and the fore-stick. Put on plenty oi live 
coals and kindlings, and add thr(>e or four (rood-sized sticks, 
(always placing the smallest at top,) and then blow the lire 

Uell. 

If you place \Uv small sticks underneath, they will shortly 
f>nrn in two, and fall apart; bringing the upper ones down with 
them, and causing confusion and trouble. 

At night, belore you u^o to bed, take olf any long sticks that 
Jnay ha])pen to be en the hre at that time, an.l carry them out 
into ihe yanl, throwing them on the ground, or pouring water en 
to extinguish them completely. Tins is sater and better than 
to stand them up in the chimney corner, and to water them out 
there, wliere they may chance- to lake ihv. again. Having re- 
moved the sticks, place the chunks and hot coals on tlu' back- 
log, and tUrow over them ashes by shovel-fulls, till you havt? 
buried them entirely. I'his will keep the lire m till morning, 
when you uncovt r it to kindle with. 

For burning \snnd m a sittmir-room or chamber, thf>re is 

nothing betier than a Franklin stove, which should aUNays be 

provided with a lender to ht exactly round, that the lloor may 

not be endangered by the coals and chunks rolling of]- the 

ncarth. In a Franklin stove a soap-stone slab, l,y way oi under 

l>ack-b.^, will b.; found exiremely convenient an.l ecom.m.cal ; 

as when tfie iron becomes hot, it consumes a large wood-n 

back-log very soon. These soap-stone logs can be prr-cur..! 

from the stone-cutf.Ts, who wil! ht them exactly to the .love 

or tire-j.lace, hrst sending a man to take ih<> measure. The 

expense is tritlin<r, and tfie a<lvantage ^rr. at. 

'I'}'or.> should tu" a thud, iron bar to lay across the andiror,s, 

Hi trnnt of the wood, !,. j.revent the stirks from rrdling f award. 

11 th. tnngs becom- tu ist.d. (a. is ollen the case,) you may 



r 



■^- 



124 



Tii E n o r s K BOO k. 



i 



H 



open them, by takin<r hold h)w down near the points, and 
pullirifr them apart. 

Always sweep the fiearlh alter mendiii^; the fire, ilav(^ in 
a ronveiiient place in the room, a brass nail, on vvhieh \n barer 
the hearth-brush, which you may ornament with a bow of 
ribbon, renewed wlien it becomes soiled. Always afu^r sweep- 
inn- thf! hearth, look carefully at the bottom of tlie brush bef<»re 
you iiaritr it up. Houses have taken fire from bits of hot coal 
beinjr carelessly left asnong- the bristh\s of the heartb-brush 
when it was put away. We kiu'w an instance in Philadclpbi:!, 
of a ladies bafr havinjr caufrht, from hanirinfr on the same nai! 
with a he^arth-brush that was heedlessly put away with hot 
coals m it. The flame spread instantly to some sheets of 
music that lay on a piano which stood in the r(n'ess, and the 
instrument (with other articles of furnitur*^) was destrf>yed 
before the fire could be extin<ruisheil ; the house beinir only 
saved l»v tile prompt arrival of tbo <Hi(riru's. 

All chnrMir-ys m uliicb woed is burnt, sletold be -ui^ji! 
rrmilarly once a mMiitli, In CDunlry fdaces wiiere cbimney- 
sweejx'rs aro not tu be prociir(-d, it is customarv to clear the 
chimneys of (be soot, by SfHtinu; them on fire with a bundb- of 
straw, choosinn; a rainy-day tor tlu; purposes or ono in which 
the root IS covered witli snow, it delayed too lonij, so a^ ?o 
allow a jrreat aecumulatif)n of sriot, there is danrrer that in tbi^ 
mode of eleanintr, the fury of the lire may burst the chinuu y. 

In an oj)en iire-j)lace, it is a jrood j)ractice every inornni'^ 
before the fir*; is made up, to take a lonir broom and piittiiu^r n 
u}) tlie cliimney as far as it will (jo, to sv\-eep down all the soot 
that is within rrach. Tins sliould !)e' done reorrdarlv in a 
kitclien chimney, ilier-- beinu always dani^'tr ot tiakts of soot 
fallintr dnwn into tlio eookimr vessels. 

Previous to ii!<ikiiii.r a lire f'lr tiie first time in the season, 



V UEL, F I K fc: S, ETC. 



125 



burn in the liearth a (piantity of wastti paper or straw. This, 
by ])roducin^r a current of warm air in the cold chimney, will 
open the draught, and prevent tln^ new lire from smoking. 



('LOSE STOV HS. — Of these, there arc various sorts, and 
each sort has its ])arti'//ans. The most common for burnintr 
c(>al, are those <reneraliy called cannon stoves, from their eyiin- 
ilrical lorm. Those of sheet iron ar(3 the lowx'St in price, and 
h(;ai a room very rapidly. 'JMiey aro excellent where only a 
temporary or occasional fire i^ wanted. Sniall ones may be 
had in JMuladelpliia for four or hve dollars. For a constant 
lire, iliese are somewhat troublesome, as without frecpient 
repieiiisliinLS tiiey retain the heat but a short time. Stoves of 
t!ie same' torm, but made oi e./.v/ iron, continue hot much Ioniser : 
and, tbouuii ot higiier pru-e are clieapest in the end, as being 
the most durable. 

\\ bere'ver a close stove is used, the firt^ place sliould be 
closed iipwiiisa tinlit-fittin^- cliimiu'V board, bavin"- a r<Hmd 
hole eul in il to admit tlie slove-pipe into the cliin.e.ey. 'i'his 
hole T7iu^:t be wt 11 i-i\<;j;^'i\ with a broad bnuluej- ui siieet iron or 
tin, nailed on both sides ol' the i)»iard, to prevent its catching 
),re iunn the beat of the i)ipe; an aceadent that will ct;rtainly 
bapjien if this precauti.ai is m.t attended U). 'Vlw pipe should 
be taken dou n t very week, carried ii;t(j tlie yard, and thorouirbly 
cle.int'il out. 

ll there is no fire-place in the room, a bole must be cut in 
the cliimney wall to -admit the jup(> ; (»r a }>;me maybe taken 
out ot one (;i the windwv\s, and replaced with a sipiare ot' tm, 
havin<T a luMe in the centre. This last m« thod, however, is 
''■dde tu llie iiK-onvenieiice (if not drawuin- well v\ hen the wind 
lb Inch, liie smuke !)eni<r tiieai idown back, t<.r wliicii the only 
remedy is to liave a moveable diMible elijow or p'lnt ,a the very 



r 



I 









126 



TKL HOUSE BOOK. 



J 



I 



extremity of tne pipe. A lartre sheet of iron should always 
be closely nailed down under and around tl)e stove, to prevent 
the lloor from catcliing- fire or scorching by failinfr coals, or by 
the lieat of the stove h-el. 

If you have a close stove on the hearth of a nursery, let it 
be well guarded by a very hitrli fender of a serni-circular form, 
the ends hooking to loops or staples driven into the wall. 
These fenders may be made of thick iron rods, an(] will prevent 
accidents from childrtm runnin<.r or f^llin^r airainst the stove. 
If of close small wire, they will look the handsomer; but may 
exclude too much of the heat, and are also less lastiofr than 
when of iron rods. 

On the top of every close stove, (w^hether the fire is of coal 
or wood^) a lari^e pan of water should be constantly kept ; re- 
plenishintr it as the water (n^aporates. These pans are best of 
block tin: if oi' earthen or china, tlse heat will split them. 
The n)oisture prcHhiced by this vessel of water, will tem])er the 
dryness of t!;*; atinosjdicre canned by tln' closf* hf^ai of tin? 
stove, whieli may 'tlherwise occasion vertigo, laintncbb, or other 
inconveniences. 

For each stove there should be a shov{d, poker, and tongs: 
likewise a coal-scuttle always at hand : for if an anthracite 
fire is allowed to get loo low, it cannot be revived without 
clearing out the whole cont<;nts of the stove, and resortiuir to 
fresh kindlmgs, &c. Have also, hanf^nni.'; t)y a loop in a con- 
venient place, a small calieo or worsted holder, witii whicii to 
guard your fingers from burning, when opening the <l(,oi of 
the stove. 

Of the numerous varieties of rooking stoves, and (>{' the 
mode (-f iiianaLnng each, it is iinpossiido to altenipi a doscrip- 
ti(in. Tliey all find favour in some kitchens, and fisc it in 
i'thcrs, accordnci t-- the taste and habits ot" tin; lainily and 



iUEL, FIR 1-8, Lie. 



i:Z7 



the cooks. We havi- lieard oi' the very same apparatus succeed- 
ing admirably in one house, and failing entirely in aiu)ther. 

We can, however, speak with a rfaijiiy of the excellence of 
a wood stove of the common ten-[>iate form, but having at the 
far end oi' the top or upper plate, beyond the oven, a round 
Inde to which a griddle is lilted as a cover. Therr; is also 
another cover, but the cook may stand upright beside, the 
stove, and bake on tliis o'riddle batter cakes or any thino of the 

' o ^ ."-1 

kind. V\ hen the griddle is no longer wanted, it may be re- 
placed, or the hole covered i.iy a large f)h>ck tin boiler, with a 
steamer on the top. On tlu^ hearth oi the st(jve is a place 
where a <rridiron lor broiliiif can be set. Any thiu' m.iy' 
be Isaked in tlie oven; and in a tin roaster, })laci^d b* sivie the 
Ht(,'ve wln.'u hot, allowim^ it a long( r time than when btdore an 
oj'Mii fire, meat or poultry can be roastid. \\ llli this stove 
there is never the slightest ditliculty, and no cook ever objects 
to it, it beinir simj)h', inanaii-eable, an<l sure. 'J'he price (in- 
<-li;di)ef boiler and ^rriddlc) is "•eneriillv trcun tourU t n lotueiiiy 
dollars, according'' \o its size. 



TH AR('()Ali--~\n?hi^'"-!t" car,n:*i be in:nit<'d without tiie 
assistance of charcoal (»r "f chips of dry wood. I'or this pur- 
pose clnircoal is mucfi tiie lit st, and should always be i.ised m 
jueference, when you live m a j)lace where it can be easily 
procured, if you an^ obliged to buy it in rainy wealiier, let 
some of It for immediate use be dried before the iirf, as il damp 
il will U'lt kindle well. (hips ot' wood cannol ai all liiii(> be 
conveniently obtained, and the lr(M|iie!il use ol iln ni \\\\\ <'aiisf; 
Soot to eoliecl in the chimney; which S(;ot, it allowed to aceu- 
muhite, may eatch iire. 

Servants sb.oiild not be allowed In waste' the charcoal : il is 
only necessary to u-e i! once a A.w , at \\--j fii-i kni'llmg ;d'*ht? 



I 






128 



.TllK II () r S i: BOOK. 



FIJF. L, FIRES, ETC. 



129 



fire; and for UkiI })urj)()S(; three or ioiir j)i('ce.s are amply sulii- 
<.-i( lit. Tvv;) l)arreis of ehareoal, if properly riiaiiao-ed, will ho 
<l!)ile enough, tor oavIi ton ore(.>a!. 

('hareoal is ( xtreniely iisel'ul to hum in portahlc }"iirnae( s (or 
makinnr swcetnieals, and eookino- various Jitlle things, in 
i'reiich cookintr it is of i^reat iinportanee. 

The h( st portahlc furnaces are those ol' casi iron, heino- iu)\ 
iiahlc to crack, like those ot' clay or earthen, and not <'asi!v 
o\(rsct; ais.) iti pnce iht-y are inii a tritle hiiiluT, while ni 
♦ '■'liVciueiicc and diiralulity they are (.f l( i)tohi siipcrionly . 
\\ ilii a ( harcoal liirnace sweitnieats may he made out of d<K>rs, 
ill the yard, or on tiu^ h<'anh of a (dr.unher. \\ henvcr eharc(tai 
i-- hurnl, the fresh air .should he freely admitted, \)y kee[)inn- a 
w n!d;)\\-s;ish raised all the time; the vapcair ladnnr so delete- 
rious, i!i a reiim cius( !y shut up, as to cause certain (hath hy 
suili^caliiau The jtnnes (;f charcoal in a (lose apartmenl have 
1reijUtiitl\ }ndV( (I fa.ta! in a lew miniiti s. The Hrst sensation 
IS that !■( sliofi!. hu! incre:;>inij \\ i aknes--. hJhiUf d h\ a 'Giddi- 
ness in the head and ihidi in the lact^ and ik (dx. Th* jMji^uxi 
ilui.-; atla( ked slejuM nuuieiiialel y esra]M> into th(^- open air. or 
k'' N\dl he St ized u J t li a dr(»ws;nt s.>, f.dh^wtd hv a seu^^' of 
sail' cati, 11 ; and if >p( cdy rein f is not ..htained, death \m11 
.s!/:ui ensue, 'i'he usual remedn s are, to thmw rold water tn 
^l''' li'id, and to lake a .juantilv oj' |,i,H,d imnudiat. !v; a!>o 
a]>piy!n'j mustard or hartshorn t.i the soles ni ih,. h.t. 

In plac( s where mu(di charcoal is hurnt, it is well ti. Ke. r. a 
'''f'-^'"'' '"'' "r laudv. t con-lant!y iilhd wilji I sme-w.itr r. u ni(di 
^''''l t^M'idlv al)SMrh th. M-as. 'i'hf !iuie-u.,n r niie-^t he reiU'Wed 
as soon a. !t h( comes impure. Tlos impurity will ]>r kno^^^ 

^'^ 'ke eaih'eiualo lA llUie i,;!|||,n lo liir hotfuiu. 



ANTHRACITE COAL.— In buyintr anthracite coal, (as in 
niost(»th(r thinL^s,) that of the best ijuality is eventually the 
cheapest. It ooes iurther, lasts lonn;er, uives out more iieat, 
wilii less wa.Uc from slate-stones and ashes, and leaves l»etter 
'dnders \\\\vn it is ( xtinjrnished ; and <roo(l cinders may always 
be turned to account by burnin<r them over an;ain. 

Kndeavour to ohtadn coal that is hard, brijrhl, and (dean-look- 
inu. \Vh( n it appears soft, porous, (d' a rou<rh, dull, and dirty 
surface, and coveri d with a profusion of damp black dust, it is 
IK ver uood, and will edve out c(,'m{)a.rativ<dy little heat, f)eiui^ 
uhv<i)s choked with its own aslu^s ; also thti cinders will ho 
found so Jlal<y aaid slaty as to Ije nt^arly useless. 

'I'Ik^ most conveni(Mit size for coal is that which is calle(l the 
hroktu (ind scnrmd ; it inakin<.r tin; best and handsonn si (ires. 
The eiriZ" coal and nut coal (which is small) may l)»~ used n\ 
(dose stoves, and in sprin^r wmX autumn, when much heat is not 
reipiired. 

Three tons f,t' the l)est ',uitlira<dt( will ufiierally (it well rm- 
n;ai(d) he louud sulkKdent for one fif" durin<_f tiic sea>ou; at 
least m the middle States. In the northern and eastern section 
(d'the rni(»n, where the winters are 1onn-er and colder, a lander 
;dlo\\anc(> will be requisite. 

'I'he asht s k)\ anthracdte is of no use in makin<^' lye or soap». 
When tht a,sh-hole is full, a cart should be obtained to remove 
and c;irry away its eoutents. 



AN^rilHACrrK C^OAF. (JHATKS.— The best anlbracile 
coal c-rates fir draufjht and comfort, ar( tliose that are set with 
only Oil" apertur(\ Some o-rates are set uith holes or opcnin(_rs 
to cotivi y the dust and aslu s up tlu^ (diimney or down into the 



Ik. 



cellar. !»y this nutans the drau(j;ht is interrujttful or divided, 



o..!i 



ind the result is jrtiieraliv a dull, (die(>rless fire, and a ditlieuliy 



130 



T H i> Ho I s i; in> o K, 



m 



I" 



in kiniiHnn- it. TIk re should he no ajMrtun' r-vocpt tliat at the 
top, wliich in width ouoht iiot to cxck (i two iiu-hus and a half; 
il wider, it will not draw so w( il, l5road shallow ^natts do not 
hr;il tin; room as (horo(i<ihly as those that arc dcrp. The 
di( per tin; body ol' coal, the more perleetly it iLntites, ;iiid the 
more warmtli it pro<!!iees. 'J'he jrrati! shouhl not hantr too low, 
er Us lieat will soon burn out the pan heneath. Tlie l.ars 
should ho rather straight than curved or howed out, and un\ too 
rlose tc-uothcr. Beads or knohs [jctwcen the lower hars are 
extremely ineonvenient when it is neeessary tf) use tfic' poker, 
to w hi(di they are such an impediuient that tiiey render il ;;li!i( si, 
iuipusvdde to (dear out the ashes jtropcrly, Fortaiiattly lor 
tliose wh(j had to (dean them, brass orjianients on coal n-ralos 
are now entirely exphided. They are oidy lotuid on (d>!-!',i.>ii- 
iuied orates, and then it is W(dl to paint them bhudv. Tlie host 
jjrates are (it (Mst iron ; beimr inore dur;dde and retairuuLl' the 
boa! b;,.iiM( r than ih.osc rd" slioot iron. 

l\vry r.,a!-er:;!o .>h.'uld be i'urni'dird with .i j'oker, shovel, 
;;nd fonfjs, (a blow er ■dVnnrse.) a lirarlb-briis]), and also a coal- 



si'Uttle 



oioc 



k tm bu(dvet or deep iron pan lor (Mrr\ in^ away 
tilt" ash( > will also he found indispensable, unless aii old eual- 
seuttle is ns(Ml lor this pnq^ose. .\shes should nevtr bo jiet 
loin a woodi'n vessel, '.is there may be beat enon-jh r.;iiaiumnr 
to ^ot !t on lire. There are asii-buckets oliron, with .1 ar.iincr 
or iron sit ve fittincj- in a))out Iralfway up, for sifiiu'j tin nndors 
a.t once. 

Care should be taktii that the blower dues lea warp, ni b.,;i, 
iuto hob s, by lioinu kept on too l.M!<_r, Tt r^leniM not Stan i ni 
tile \ard. as the damp will cortaaniy rust ii. \\ ii ii i\:l> n < ;!' 
tin' nrale, it will do iiu injury il' phui-d at once ao-am-! !la; 
•wall m tlie nearest passan-e i.v (aiirv. A blow cr-lii Ider or.-|r,ih 
or cahr,; should bo kipt alway> ui a conv* nu nt place, to 



I 



FTTFL, FIRKS, ETC. 



131 



prevent the liandle of tln^ hot blower from burnin<T the hand. 

i-'..r want (d'a pr(i|ier bidder, we have known a n(wvs:j)aper or w 
li.iudkerebit r caught uj) to remove a very h<a blower; and tlH3 
conse(pu'nee was that the j)aper took fire, or the luuulkertdiiel" 
was irreparably scondied. Tin- best and least iidhmunabbj 
leildors are mad(> of bd.ds (d' (dd flannel, covered with woolh ji 
rlotli, .-.(Wed round the edecs, and sliniitlv (iuilted or stit(du d 
throi'n li, 

A \:\i'ji- Civarse thiciv (doili laf canvas, tow, WtHdlfai, or of some 
very slrono- fai'ric. <;hould be j)rnvi:led tor the servant to lay 
down in front oi'iln eralo before he makes the tire. This wall 
greailv a^-i>t in ko( [ijtej the carpet (deam, and on it he sluaild 
i/iaci^ ids siaittle aaid oiher ap]*ar;ilus. 'I'be (doth should have 
a. stout, lieavy Itindiin'/ -.ill round, to in:d<i^ it lie smoothly and 
keep ii- jd;ice. 

we irive set n in some bouses the hearth-ruir turned wroiirr 
side up to prevent the rolrair< iVem fadinaj from tlie heat (d ttn; 
fire, 'i'iiis is not a good la-aclico, a-- (ind:ej>endi !it (d il-^ V( rv 
had apj'earanct ) llie cohairs will be mneb fnore i!i|ured by tb(> 
dn>t and aslirs tha.t ^\ill unavoidablv lO't uraler the rue- and [)o 
thus L,rr;,und iiito the nap -d'tts ri'jht sid(\ 

Tht dross or crust tlrat collects at the back (S the irrab; 
shi rdd be everv rnornin'_r scrap(-'d oif w itii tin^ tnn'j^ or poka^r; 
ollit rw !•>( it \\ ill accumulate >o as t(! becom*^ \(ry inconv( ni«ait, 
and very diiricult to k^'ihuvc. 

Tli(> drvnf-s of atmospliere caused by the be.it of anlhra(dte, 
is to many persons a s iurc(' of (jreat inconv* nience. It may 
easily be remedied ny havin^r a lon^- deep narrow vesstd ul 
sheet iron, lined with blotdv tin, made to til t>xactly the ^Indf 
or ;.'p ot" the nrraie, and Kt>pf e,ii\slanlly tilled wath water. It 
should L»e three inelies or more in lieight, and may be painted 

Id \r-]; <,\^ t|ie ontside. 



r 

ti 



'IS! 



132 



THE HOTTf«K BOOK. 



If you find the room very vvanii, and wish to increase the 
evaporation of the water, you may do so by j)lunixiiiir into it 
a red-hot pokjT. 

The utensil oenerally called in England a footman, is very 
convenient to hang in front of a coal graie, for tin; j)urpost; of 
liealing any little thing that maybe required in an eatinj^-room, 
nursery, or ehamlxT. There are common ones made oi' iron, and 
a better sort of brass. They hook on to the bars cd" the grattu 
and can b«- drawn out by a handle to the re(juisi(e distance 
from tlie fire. Smoothing irons may he heate<i, a s.uicf pan 
boib'd, water warmed, bread toasted, apj)les roasted, and a tea, 
or colfee-pot, or a sfriail kettle kept hoi on a footman. 'I'he 
exp(>nse ot" this article is a trille, and the convenience great. 
\V(.' iiighly recommend it. 



COAT. CRATE FIRKS.—Previous to making the f.re, 
reiiH.'ve tlu' hearth-rug, and s}>read down in front of th. nnite a 

lari.re ('(Kirsr e](;th kept fnf tliC piirpOSe, 

The fire having j)een entindy extinguished over night, ((ir at 
least long «>nough for the grate to l)ecome (piite cold,) euipty it 
eomj)lelely fd' all its conttmts ; first raking out the as!i( s by 
inserting the poker underneath, between tlu; bottom bars. 'I'hen 
take out all the eimh>rs, either with the tongs or witii vour 
hands: l)ie latter is the easiest way and the most expeditiouq, 
and your hands nuiy l)e (bdended by a pair of coarse thick 
gloves. As you take out the cinders, lay tlietn aside I'^r use: 
you need not, of course, save those that j)rove to be puces of 
slate or stone, or tiiat are only sfd'l spun<ry flakes. ll' th( eo;d 
1^" <d the best kind, very It-w liad cinders will be found auii.n.r 
It. It the w<'athor is extrenn ly cold, it will he w a 11 w je u the 
grate is empty, to [turn in it an idd ne\Nspajt(T or -Due straw ; 
■his will heat the (diill air td" the (dii:nney, ;uid the warm cair- 



'I 



FUEL, FIRKS, I'TC. 



133 



rent will, by improving the draught, cause the fin" to ignite the 
SMorKT. 

When the orate is entindy (Muptied, sweep it out clean with 
a lu'arlhd)rush ; and once a wetdv at least, wash it out with a 
wet cloth. R(.niove th(> portable iron lu-arth i'mui umbTneath, 
and empty the ashes into an iron pan, or an old scuttle breu-rht 

o 

lor th(^ purpose. 

7b bui!<I ///f //Vr.—First put into the bottom a very slight 
layer of iVesh banl eoa! iVom the scuttle, S(d(vtin^ pieces a!)out 
bail the size of an eg<r, or rather smaller; this will pn-vent the 
idian-oai from falling thn-ULdi as it burns. Lay upon thiw 
floorina-or aiithracin-., a lar;Z./ sh.;vrl-f ull r.f hrjal.t live coals 
iVom the kit( hen tke. They shoubi be seb>etod with the ton.rs, 
(m, as to he Iree ln)m ashes.) and carried in an iroii fire-pan 
With a iid, to pn-vent their si.iiliiin; on the way. \,> hoiis,,' 
should i.'e without flu^se fire-pans. 

Having put on tlH> iive^ coals f,r kindlers. place over theuj 
tbreporfMir <rn,u\ p,eres nf rh in-na!. laviULT thnr p nnN or 
ends loovther, so as to form a sort of pyraiind. At the sides 
■and l.ack of this -han'oal put a few ra.th.^r sinall piecoq nf an- 
thracite; and when that has i<rr.ited, fill up the fjrato, placi:er 
hard coal in fri.nt and disposing of the cind.u-s b.diind. l»iace 
tlio birgest i)icces of anthracite on the |r,p, and heap it up as 
hi'/h as the back wall of the nrrate will allow. Atbrward;, 
put on the blower, (takinrr care tluit it fits m (dr,s.-]y at t!,.' 
bottom.) and let it nanain till all the fm 1 in th«» (rrate is ler}it,Ml 
aaui till hla/es i^su*' from betW(M'n the coals .-i th- top. 

I>. t tlie s( rvant that makes the fin- einplov l.imselt ah.^it tiie 
r^HMii or in its vKunity, till il is time t(, nairnvr thr hb.ucr, lest 
hosliMuld b.r-et and leave it u]^ t.o loier; ,„ w!.,rh case it 
wii! become n'd-li(;t, and ben.l and warp, or perhaps hn-ak ; 
also tiie intense heat will hum and bend the bar-, of the arate, 

I -J 



■/« 



•in 



A 






134 



TITE HOUSE ROOK, 



I 

li V 



aiid cxhnust tho coal too soon. If red spots lu-^in to appear 
on the hliiVNTT, it should he taken down ininirdiatidy. When 
on rernovinnf the hh)\ver, the mass ot' coal is lound to hav«; 
Slink in C(»iisr(j!M?nc(; of the charcoal burning down, some ntore 
liri^re jticcts of anthracite sliould he laid on th(M(>j). It may 
then he left to ilscif, till the usual h.our for npleiusiiin^j- it; 
hill th<' iiri' shoiihi not hr permitted to sink below the second 
bar ; wliensvi-r it (h.-es so, it henrjns to deaden, if an antliracite 
fife IS alh'vvt'd lu get very low, it is extremely ditlicult h) 
rt'vivc; ;ind tlM-re is 'jfcnerally no other way than to empty the 
^rr.itc coiiiph tcly, and to kindh^ an entirely new fire, as in the 



mormnir. 



*, 



Tn winter, an anthracite fire sh()uld he replenished at least 
every si\ hours; and ii'the weather is very cold, and the frrate 
jiut lar^-c, 11 will rfMjuire still more; frecjuent attention. {Gene- 
rally, with a urate of 'n,i,i\ size it will he suOicient (the fire 
having- br( n niado up early in the morninir) to ch ar out tluj 
:-i>li('s, and put on tresli coal al)out eleven o'cluck ; tlim at six 
in the at'irrnoon. Whenever the fire is to be re[)leiH.>lied, first 
pill up the blower to screen the mantel-j)iece and surroundinir 
iiirmture I'rruji the dust and aslu^s, and then rake underneath with 
the poker till all is cleared out but the live coals. Then, with 
the poker, work the cinders about over the hoh^s of the upjxr 
hearth, to lei the ashes fall throtitrh into the under one ; and 
rake between all I he bars, so as to let down the burninrr coals, 
and prevent liollows and larire vacancies in the body of the 
fire. \e\t. lake olflhe blower, and j)iit on the fresh coal. If' 
vou have cinders, throw them on behind the hard coal, as llwy 
disfiu-ure the lire when placed in front. In puftniLT on tresli 
eoal, slojM' it upwards from (he to}) bar, so as to form a iiill 
ix'hmd, atrainst the back wall, li' the (.rrate and coal are br)lh 
irood, and the tire lias nr^t been allowed to get too low, you need 



ri'EI., I'IKKS, KTC. 



135 



not, on replenishinrr it, put up the blower; as, after a while, it 
will burn very well without it: and by usIul:; the b.ower too 
often, or too Ion<r, you (\\haust tin coal, and diminish its heat. 

I>et the heartli be swa^pt livery time that tlur (ire is touched. 
An ashv lu^irth is a slovenly and disatrreeable obitct, civinir an 
uncomfortable aspect to the whole rf)om. 

In keepdnjr up a jrood coal lire, retnilarity is indispensabl(\ 
l']ven if it does not look low, it should always be punctually 
TPplenished ;\t the stated hours; and the s(Tvant should be 
mad*' to understand, that it is his business to do so, without 
fartlier tellinfr-; otherwises, therc^ is nnich chanc<! of its beiufr 
frequently nejrlected and fortrotten. Except at the time for 
rea'ularly r( filenishintr it, there is rarely any necessity of toucli- 
in^- an anthracite iire. Injudicious })okin<r and stirring will 
]Mit it otJt, instead of im{>roving it. 

To extinnruisli it completely at niiiht, take the tonnes, and !if\ 
oil the, lartrest and best coals, one at a time, and lay them 
in tl'e hearth. Then rake up on each side, tlie live cnals that 
remain in the body of tiie i^ratii ; so as tn form a deep hollow 
in the niiddh\ like a valley between two hills. \\y this last pro- 
cess, (whicli is l)est etfected with the point of the shut tonus,) 
tiie most glowing tire will gradually blacktai aiid di(3 out in a 
(jiiarti r of an Injur ; and the (jrate will beenme (juite cohl ; so 
that in the morninL,^, it can hi- conveniently em})lied, previous 
to building tlus new tire. 

If you wish a trood lire in your chamber vt'ry early in the 
neirning, let it be extinguished m the above manner a!»out 
seven in \hr evcniuf/. About ti n, or when all the cinders are 
Cm!. I, j,'| a s( rvant clear out the trrate complt tely, and build up 
the me.rniruj;- tire, as before diricted; leaviii'^- the blow er and the 
sriitije in the room. !f the orate is "rood, and the (ir.iiieht an 
it shonld hi , the whoh* of the tutl may he laid on at once, even 



r 



"'!' 



'I 



13(3 



Tin: H () I' S K BOOK. 



ii, , 



'f 






*i. 



to j.iiinj^r on itio i'resli coal at, tlie loj). Some waste paper or 
8!iaviiiirs should be nut in with llie chareoal. At (lavli<rht, the 
oceupaiii o! iheehaniher can light the tire iiiniselt; hy aj)plviti«r 
a hit ol' paper to the liaiiK; of the niirht-lanip, or with a Inciter 
in;i!cli. 'rh(>n, putlintr uj) tin; blower, he may return to bed, 
■.ui(i rtinain there till the (ire is in successful protrress ; which 
nmII he m a very short time; and on removintr the blower, he 
wil! have a warm room for vvashino- and dressincr himself. 

The ))ractice that prevails in many families of never allow- 

injj^ their cuai lire^ io he extiofruished durinir the whole winter, 

is not a nrood one. If tiie object is to save charcoal, w(> think 

It will he t'oiind, on calculation, that the additional anthracite 

re-iuired to keep up the lire all nifrht, will more than balance 

t!ie expense of fresh kindlma every morninfr; and besides a j)er- 

{>eiual fire is almost perpetually dull and ashy. Also, ihv unre- 

niittinjr iieat produces cock-roadies, and othe-r disirustne-r in- 

sects; and in Mimmer, if a coal-fire is ke{)t up ai! niirht in tin; 

kitchen. It wiil add (rreatly to the (TeneraJ xsarmih nf ttu^ iioust- ; 

HialvinL;- tli,> ciMinl'crs in the vicmiiy of the kilclien unwlnde- 

boini' and ahnosi int(derable. Another, and very paipalde olip-c- 

lien IS, that urd(>ss a cf)al-Lrrate or stov(^ is comj)letely (deared out 

onre a d;iy, by n niovino- cwry partich; of cinders and ashes, 

and sweejunir out the whole inside witli a brush, no p(;kinLr ,.r 

rakini: tiiat can be (h)ne, w ill prevefit the lire from lookin<^r all 

d.!\, (dn.ked and ashy at the bottom, and there wiil be very 

liitie irh)\v even at the tnp, unless f jr a sin^rt time directly alter 

the removal of the blower; ;md of course the fire will m^t 

liir.iw out ball as much heal as when burnin(r (dear and brichllv 

all ihroUL^b. 

Coal, to burn well in a ix^ate, should nr-.t he smalh^r than ari 
CL'o-, or iarirer than a niodejate-si/ed oranjrc. ,\ skillful jire- 
makt r wiil lit in tiie laruc .md small pieces, so as to consume 



I I' E 1., F iRi; S, K Tc: 



137 



both to advantage. \', e have known this don( by sfM'vaiits 
\\ ho took (Treat [)riile in the excelh nc(i ed" tin ir j)arlour lires; 
for iristance, a coloured man, who al\\a)s assorted his Ci»a!, 
and brought it up separately in two scuttles. r< sorviiiL'; bis 
finest pieces tor the front of the lire, and calliinr them !iis 
facjT.s. 

('oal should not be thrown on from the scuttle. It is best 
to put on the piec'es with the Ir.utd. ou" w ith the- too'^s. Tin rc: 
are small iron t(jn^s made for the purpose. 'J'here should be a 
ecral-scuttle for every lire-pl.u'e. 

I'se the cinders a.s you oo alonir, and let f^very '-^rate consume 
its own cinders, whi(di may be freed from the ashes by workino- 
tJieni about with the poker (»r tones on tlie upper or jk rf orated 
hearth. It will not then Ix- necessary to cijrry ihein out to be 
sil'ted ; and the servants will not then have a chance (d'throw- 
inir them away to iivad the trouble of sitnuLT. In some fami- 
hes, howe'Vrr, where the servants ■•an be depended on. it is \\\v. 
eie-toin fand a V( ry >y'y.'i] i'nt } lo hava^ itn rimh r~; takon int.-i flu; 
yard and wash) d in an old biudot, ptairinL!" <'n waier and tai n 
dra.iniiie; it olT. This madu'S tin in look l)la(dv, and caii-es 
lh( in to burn i-elt<'r. 

\\ hen the heat ot an anthracdte lire i.-> too ereal. (fop in.>iance, 

late in the sprinn; or early in the autumn, ) it <'an be diniini-bod 

without extinfTuishiiHj, by takimj the i .nns or pok( r and pri .->- 

injj down hard tin' coals on the top; or by takii!<x oiT a lew oj" 

tlie lartrest |)iec(s ; or liy throwin;.r on, tow ards the baek (iflhe 

{^TaU', a small (juantity of the line powdirrd coal-du^l, eoni- 

niordy callrd sluek. Manv persons, to diminish itio heal, have 

a thick paste (^l asln s and water prejKir* d iii th'- eillauand 

^-j.•^eatl \\\\]\ ;) shovid over the topi ot'lhe erate-tire. It fwrms a 

' ru-t, under wbieh the lire will burn dnuK all i\:\v. 

In makinsT a fire tor tin- lirst time in the st .i-^on, there i« 

12* 



r 1 




J 38 



THE liOL.SE BOOK. 



ic ctiininrv 



iii'jsli) a <iniici]lfy IVom tlic coMiicss of i: 

mny ;i]\v:iys he n inciiic*!, ;iri<l the (Ir.iunl!! ojicnrj, i>v i'iil 

t!f -rale wilii uhi iirusjctpcrs or olht r w.istc j)a})( r, (as ImIi 



Ins 



iiiji 



Jie 



IfH llllOIll' 



J 



and sritiii'j; thni! (ai lire 



; Of, 



il iiiort' C'jnvrnicnt, 



yon rnny make a hla/r wilii a (f w handl'iils of sir 



i\v (ir shavin 



l''S. 



Antl 



iracitf 



HI'S, 



iii;iii;ij.n'(l rjv/r//// accdnlinu- lu liic i 



)i(C(Mi 



iiio- dircL'tiuiis, Will 1)(: i\>uu(\ 1 



luirt' (•(aiitorl.dilf, more cconomi- 



n (Vf. ry r('s|MM't 



07\], liacd-xiiiirr in aj)j»(';iranc»', aiiii i 

fiictory ihaii if coiKiuctcd in any olIuT inaancr. 'i 

by 



fiiirc satis- 



111.-' %V I t\kl< I \\ 



e.\pLitt'iice. 



Wlirn tho [ir^icticc is persists] in ofkMjMrifj up tlic fire a!! 



Mio 



111 



• ' ti.aioni stumld .)(■ raki 



■d and i' 



TS 



II C'lai put on tliR 



i^t tiling hrluri' ii:oiii«r lo bud. Some ptasnns havo ilic scuttlo 
■It 111 the rnnm, lliat tlicy may rrplrni.^ii llic «.rrato at any ;iai(i 



ni tiif ni'Oii, 



;ir! \ in the jn' 



irrnn 



'2\ i! ^h'Mi 



1(1 fM' \\ I 



• W 



,li\< u 



^\ I'll !!'*■ h'du r, {:) clear uuL us niucii <■■( tia 



a ; i s 1 1 1 s 



i>. :>-^iaU' 



nnd tiM II fill) (i up tfi tlir tdji w i!ii \'n >\i 
)1 



<'-ii! 



A 



i 1 . r w a ! 



p !!!• i)lower. .iii'l 1. I I! r< iuani Hi! ul i- w, li i;.niit' 



I. in 



n ! t • i ; ; ; i f- 1 ) a ; 



lifL' tliiii has iH/rn 



urn 1 11" ,11 



1 '!i! IS f' 



11(1 



Vfivdiiil and iow, it\Mll he dijlL-aii t lo rcvivi n w 



II i! ' . 1 1 1 i m 1 1 1 n "■ 



on s : I I ! 1 ! ■ 1 ) 



Us ol (diaroial or sni.iil woomI, ami lollino t, 



huru 



a uliilr !»( lore ihtj hard cual is aiid 



Oil 



N. 



'VfT a! nnv timr put on frosij CMal without fn-t ral. 



in<r (-ul 



li!'- in. III. II! ol the naalo and iiotwoi n t! 



'\v<T liar>> v. nil tia; 



ds.r. \ 



oil 



may, duiiisj^ the day, disjjosc >d tiio aMio> hy 



raiMii-r tlio uppor part (d' tIa- iron lioarfli, and i.ii 



111'"" tin in tai 



dn\\ n int^. tlio undior p-art 



h< \<>\\ 



1 



ia 11 rojdaco ta 



'!)( r ^^r 



"t 



*t. 



I 



poi (oratt d hoarlli evenly, and 



,->\\ ( I i» 



oM'.ai, 



poll 



rio oocasi >n 



^•lioiild tlio lioarlh no al 



!!• ilior 



o i\\ i d til r, 



d A\ 00(1 or coal) 



aia i n o 1 1 ; \ ! a 



o o 1 1 n a ri 



w ittl 



a;-ia 



u 111 l;! vo a ^dov.■n! \- ai 



• 1 nn-^orahio 



'k ovo-n to the 



i'lost (d. rianilv farni A\> d anaitai. nt. whih 



a r[i an, w ( il-<\\ ( i.t 



FUKL, FIRES, ETC 



131) 



hoarth iiinparts an air oi' (leanness, neatness, and [renlilily to a 
room of very moderate jjndensions. An ever-dirty Inearth, and 
a ^^ale always (diokeci with cinders ;inil ashes, may he taken as 
ahnosl iiijaliihle evidence (d" had in)US(dNeepin<i;. 



COAL S'roVI'i I'MRTiS. — To make a nood new lire in ,i 

close coal stove, hej^in by completely (dearin^; out the pan or 
lda(a> tiiat hoidis tho !utd, leavitu'- no remains (d' cinders or ;s>.lies. 



Ill ai 



tlie r>ot!om a sii'dit laver ot' small tresh ci,'aL aiai tin n 



siiovejiul (d" <dear. liri'dil, '.'lowiii"' coals iVom tiir kmda'ii, 



serimr ?iiat there is no ashes anion" them. On these live 



coa Is 



yo!i may l.iy three r^r iour pieees of fdiareo>al '-md some (.rood 
Cinders, and then fill up the pan or pot with tresh hard i't)\\\^ 
heapinif it r:.n the top. Tiie coal tor a. >tove sheuld he the eo-r 



r 



or mit si'/e 



Shut t 



le lar""e door oi the stove, ( leavni"' the litth; 



r»ne opoii.) and you wall so(ai irave a tine tire, 

Atier a vshile il will sird\, in ciai>e(pience ot tic fdnircoai 
!nv'nn= ])urnrd d.aA\-n : tlien dirc'Ctlv pat srime uinre hard coal 



(ai 



!he t 



lip ; anil 



he caodui thai the lire never "( ts too jo\v- 



)1 he tound impessdde to re\ive it uitiioiit (dearin"" oiil the 



\\ 



hoha atid huildino" it rntirrlv anew 



It 



vou eannot olitain (diare.ial, von nr.iy kindle with piece 



o 



i' i\v\' WM(,d spill small, and hiid on the hul couls vvilh a hand- 



ful et'>havinos or waste jtaia-r. 



N 



on m: 



V somewhat diminisli the hea.t hv closinn- the lift' 



diMif, and therehy lessenino the -tren<j!;i of the drai!':dit ; and 



roil may ie-;st n 



t still 



nore faiid iiu 



ieed 



adiiadly extiiejui -!) 



tlie hre^ lo. SI ttlll" tiie lai'je (h^a vV ide laii 



I a 1 n I a \ , I 



fe 



expedient, in 



t -ii! tlie jire, almost iiioned lat.i y . h\- parliiej; il 



ai in 



a \\ It h I'll' p' 



I a "[ 1 ' I e ' s , s o a ^ 



h a \a ■ a ' 1 1 e a 1 1 < > 11 . i w 



In the .-. lit ro. 



!- w I' \ 1 lo f^arr- amd Miice .-> 



ides ot d C 



, oSU 



1^ 



140 



THE HOUSE BUUJv. 



y'^^ 



fi. 



I 



slrjvr with one of tlic thick biock-lin iscrt-cns madr for the pur- 
])oso. It wili prt.'vrnt ihc hrr.t from injnriiio the wall or tlio 
iuriiitiiro. 

A stove, as ut'Il as a j^f^i^'S should ho thorouohly cioari^d 
fMit a! hast nruT in twonty-four lionrs. What is caih'd a por- 
j'llua! hn\ (>r such as many persons boast of conlinuiiur unex- 
linuiushcjl all winfor, !s wastoCul of coal, and is never so hri^ht 
nnd strtMi^r as that which is t-ninely r(^ne\\ cd every day, without 
any remains r-l the old lire, if you wish ;i fine lire early iii the 
inotnniii-, h t the slovo he mtircly (-mptiod (A-er-ni^ht, and the 
new !u( 1 hud or arranged in the nranner d( scrihcd, the whoio 
hi in<4 huili at *.nco, putlino- sonn' shavinns or w a>te j)aprr witii 
Ihe charcoal. Then, vvitli u match lighted at a ni^ht lamp, 
ynn may iijnite it at dawn, or wlienevor you phase; and you 
will have an excellent lire and a warin room to wash and dress 
in, while liie water in the tin pan (;n the to]) will have nrradu- 
aiiy hecorne hot < nou^Hi to use for any iieedtul purpose. 

It, however, you pre!( r keep!n«j up the fire all nieht, havin;.r 
raked the a^iies well iroiu ttie bottom, till up witli liesh coal 
before you '_ro t<» bed, and hav<- \]\v scuttle at hand to replenish 
It, if y-ii tliiiik proper. In the morninir, rake it well out at the 
l)0ttoni, a.nd add fresh coal. If you tind the lire V( ry low and 
du11, j>iit on some (diarcoal, or chips, !)<:tore fillinL*- ]t up with 
the aiilhraiMte. 

1^' very careful that the piints of the stove-j)i|'e lii tio-htly. 
Should they b.ippen to open or uape ap.irt in the ni<rht, w hen 
^Urrr i> lire in the >tove, tlie vapour escapnej;- from the coal 
may have the most deleterious etfect feven tei siiilocation) on 

persons shepiun- in ;i cloS(> chaiUlier. 

()ii su(di o<-casions, when life is not entin iv < xtiinM, ,uid a 
physician cannot hi proeured immediiatel v, ;iMi!iiatioii maybe 
restored by promptly resArtiu!/ to the <ollowni>x remedh'S. 



FIT El., FIRKS ETC. 



ill 



Open instantly tlie doorsi and windows, and allow the air to 
pass freely ovei the face of tin* patient ; i)ut keep Ids body 
covered with the !»ed-(d()thes, under which let his skin be 
rubbed hard, first w ith tlie hand, and tlien with warm cloths as 
soon as they can be ])rocured. Make hinj swallow as soon as 
possible a half-iea-spooid"ul of cayenne pepper, mixed in a tea- 
ciip of boilintT water, and administered whenever it is co(d 
enougli to be taken without scaldinj^r th(> mouth. As soon as 
he can eat, he should have food seasoned with plenty of p(^])per 
and mustard. If he is made to inhale oxy«rcn gas, he will 
recover the sooner. 

The pipe of u coal-stove should be taken down al)out once 
a f irtnifrht, lor the j)urpose of clearin<r cut the ashes that hava 
liecn drawn uj) into it; and which, if allowed to remain, will 
impede the drantrht, and prevent the fire from burninor well. 

The coal tor a close stove should l)e small. For a lanrtj 
stove, the egg coal ; for a small one, the nut. 



BTTT^MTNOrS OH KXliiJSH ('OAI..-^roal found in 
ilK' western section of the Tnited Slates, is generally bitumi- 
nous; so also is that imjiorted from ]\ngland. It is much 
sfd'ter than the anthracite, emits more smoke, produces more 
dust and ashes, and tlu' he-at is far h>ss intense, though the bla/e 
is very bright. 'I'he trrates used for burninc" it should Ite s( t 
open, with the- wliole s])acf> vacant from th(3 bars n])wards, 
inst(>ad of filling ii up with tire brick, and leaving only a nar- 
row slip or ajterture, as lor anthracite. To kindle tin.' fire in 
the morrdng, having (deared out the grate, sj.read a lew eood 
cinders over the bottom ; then hrinix some hot. coals Iroin tlio 
kitchen, and lay on them a few slips of j)ine wood : alierwards 
fill up the i^rate with fresh coal from the scuttle, and bunv with 
a pair of btllows till the lire is well ignited. 



Hf 



142 



THE liOUSi: iJUOK, 



pp.; 



I 

» 



M t' 



Or you may kindJc it without live coals, by applyiiirr to the 
pine sticks lii^htcd brimstono inatclK^s. 

A lire of bituminous coal must bo replemsluMl much more 
frequently than one of anthracite. When it looks dull and 
has burnt hollow, stir it underneath with the poker, and then 
have some fresh coal put on. If you wish to ke^j) it burnin^r 
slowly all niuht, throw on the top a sufficient (juantity of slack 
or coal-pow(hr from the cellar. 

To extin<ruish it at ni«rht, take otf the best coals, and then 
rake out all the rest with the poker, if necessa.ry, tiirow on 
some water. 

In English iiouses, the servant that kindles the kitchen hro 
is always provided with a tinder-box of tin, havini,r on the lid 
a socket which hohls a piece of candh'. This lid is made to 
come oil; and in the cavity of the box beneath, is kept a (pian- 
tity of tinder made Irom ra^rs ; a liiat, and a piece of slcfd with 
a [landle to it; also a few sulpliur matches, ik'fnre dayli.rht 
in a vvmr* r moruinn, the iirt'-maktr (iiaviri-/ tak'Ti tin; tinder- 
box uj) stairs wilh lier) strikes out witii tlit; llim and ^tee•i a 
few Sj)arks, \vhi(di, catchin<r the tinder, enable her to nrnite a 
match, by whicn she Iitrhts liie candle; and willi the eandlo 
she g(;es down and kindles the fire, by applyinn^ li^rhted matches 
to some litthj sli[)s of vv(.od, which she places at the bottnui ol" 
t!ie ^^rate. 

In this manner a hre of bituminous c.jal may be made, if 
wanted, at any time in the ni^^ht. 



COIvH. — Tiiis is the state m which the coal u^vd in manu- 
facturintr eras is h'tt, after the bituiuinous niatler has hvcn 
extracted. Jt remain.^ in lart^e, licht, porous, black hnnjis, and 
IS a very convenient and economical iuel for sprniL^ and autiiinn, 
and bjr rooms w lu're only a moderate heat is reipiired. It has 



I-FKL, FIRES, KTC. 



143 



less vapour tlian any other coal, (beintr not oppressive even to 
delicate lunnrs,) and can be ignited sooner ; makincr a brioht, 
^lowin:^-, and cheerful fire, so similar in aj)pearance to that of 
anthracite, ihat few persons (unless they are told) can perceive 
any visible dillerence. 'JMioufrh excellent for sprincr and autumn, 
(as we know from experience,) and tor the few chilly wet days 
that occasionally occur in summer, we do not recomnu-nd coke 
in those sections of the (inion where the climate is severe: as to 
keep up a iarire steady coke-fire in extrc^mely cold weather, all 
(hiy and ail the evenino, ujil re.piir*^ the orate to be replenished 
^vl{h as much as it can hohJ six or s.^^en times, at least: and 
still more fre(iuently in a (dose stove. For the first early 
autumn or late sprinjr jires, one jrrate ihll of coke will l)e suiii- 
cient for \hv day; or for the evenin<r, (if made on at dusk,) 
heatino- the room so well at lirst, that it continui's comfortable 
lon<r after the fire lias died out. In families where an open 
prate or rauL^e for coal, is used in the kitchen, coke h.is been 
iMind Vf ry nood jue! toco-.k with in th( summer, causinir uiucb 
bss heat liian anthracite in the h>wer part ci' the house; and 
it is so soon iirnited in the mornimr, that its incapability 
nf burninnr all niuht without re|)!enishiiia;, is little i^r no 
disadvantajfe. 

In Philadelphia (where coke is very chenj)) it can be 
obtained by applicatir)n at the (.llice of the (;as (\)mpany in 
the Franklin Institute, payintr always in advance. It is well 
to order a cart-load at once, as the price h.r haulimr from the 
jras-works is the same for ten bushels as for fit'ty. 

To make a coke hre, let tlu^ (rrat(; l)e cleared comj.letely, 
r.ikinfr out all remains of the last fire, and sweepinu- it clean 
^vith a hearth brush, 'i'hen covrr the i)ofiom of the irrate wilh 
a sliirht layer of small bits of coke, (cimlers will do,) and 
place thereon a shovel full of briglit, clear, jive coals for 



r 



i . A 



144 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 






If' /•, 
[J 1^' 

ft '"C" 



i 



I 



kindliiuT- ^^» thoso coals lay three or four plf^ees of e]iar»"oa1, 
(;v very little will siifrici,) or u few j)irccs of dry kiiuUino: \voO(i, 
spill small. If Vi'ii use wood iiist(:ud oi" ehare(ja!, it is us ii to 
add a Crw shavinos or some wastr-paper. Th('U Ji/l uj* tht t^rdlc. 
at mice iviih cokf, and put uj) tiie 1)1o\V(T, filtiiijr it elosely in at 
tlie l)(4t'>iii. In five minutes you may remov(> tho i)lo\vor, 
Milhout iiny risk of the fire not ioiiitini»- wt'U ; but if yoii loave 
it \\y ( inht or \v\\ minutes, you will, on rcmoviUL!, it. tind lite: 
\shole ul' tho ooko in a brlj^ht glow, iind iho room will ht; very 
warm in!med!at( ly. 

W itfi coko, a,> \s ith authraoito, (uiiLss you inhmf it to uie 
out,) you must tak( t'ar«' not to ici the lire i:<'' too low m tlie- 
frnito. In roph^iishinrr it, atu r fiUnui uj) llif uTatc with In^h 
(•(■ke, rako Ix twetn tiio hirs, -.uid tlim i)Ut on the iilow! r tor a 
fi'W moiiK Ills, ^^ liiir vou rake woU ;ii tlio lM)tioni, till tlio-.istits 
IP thnroujihly (Xiulltd: tin ii oiuj)1y the iron lirariii into tiui 
ash-p;ui hoiioalh, ;md rouiovo ihc hiowcr, ii^ tho lire will no 
iuu'ior rrtuiiro M. 

To extinrruisis tlip firrJift o.li' w nii the torej'^ anv lariif [»it cos 
of ooko that mav still ho hurnin'_r; h.ty thorn on tlu luartli, 
whore they will die out, immodiatoly, a.ud savr tiaiu l.iremdt rs 
to hurn next day. Noxt, with, tho toiin-s or pokrr lioa.t dow ii 
thio m;is< ol' hot ooaU. and ihou part them ii; iho i ontrc h aviiiL! 
a doop hollow dov, n to ilio hoHum ot' tin oTat( ; or, it tlay an- 
hut fow, work and stir them at)out a little, and thoy will soon 

go out. 

hi wintor, 11" you havo h'^th ciko arid aiithrarHo. il is a. nood 
wav to ma1co tho rnrlie^t or mo.rriini.r tirt ot'fckr, ';'^ it ijui!' s 
so soon.) and tlau. whoii it lia- hurut d.iwn !w h.w tio' uppor 
har, rrph uish \n ith untiirdcit<-, oontiiming tiio haoi ct^al during 
tho day and ov» rdno;. 

(hi an iron t"o(.tman or slitir, houkoil on t(_i tlio */rato, 



FT EL, FIRER, F. TC. 



145 



you mav soon boil a tea-kettle or sauce-pan before a foke 
fire. 



TO UKAT A miWK OVKN.— .Ovens should he heated 

with li-rjit drv wood. Chesnut is hf st ; hut if it cannot he 

procured, you may substitul" pims It must be si)lit up small ; 

not a >-tiek Ijeinir left thiekt>r than vour wrist. Fa"-(rots, (.»r 

bundles of dry slender l)ranehes feathered up in tlie woods, are 

used t'or ovens wlun notliinn- tdse can he oL>taiiied. The oven 

wood sliouii' he all ready the- eveninjr before it is v;anted far 

bakinir, tirat tho oven mav h(^ h< ;itod ra.rly. In initliuf in the 

wood, phice it near tln^ mouth or door of thr oven, (for there 

the draajnrht is strontrcst,) and lav tho slicks across ( a(di other 

in a sipiare- ])iie, as children do wlun they jday at building- 

houses. Put in sulficient oven wood at oncf- ; f.r instance, a 

larrro arm-full or more. Tho^ door of ilie oven must be left 

nj)fui all the tim*^ tho fire is huruiiiL':. Kindle the wood with 

soin*' livo coals and wasto-jiap* r, ^r ^havin^rs. After it lias 

been hurniiiLr ^\'<!1 f t about a qnartor oi' ari hour, with a loner 

sti(d< or polo push tho jiro f irthf r ha(dv towards the eontre of 

tho ovon, and stir and (]ui(d<en it occasionally. When the fire 

is reduced entirely to a hod el' coals, and when tlu' coals look 

dull and whitish, as if dvinij; out. remove them iVom the oven 

with a lar<re shovel or scraper. \( .\t, take a lonir stick, to one 

end of whi(di is fastened ;i coarse wei (doth, (a wet mop is still 

better.) and with it wipe out the floor of the oven. Then let it 

rest f er a.hout five minutes. To try the heat, throw in a piece 

of paper; and if it burns instant! v, the oven is too hot, and you 

must wait a little lonfjor. A thermometer, held for a niinute 

within the oven, is a (to.mI reijnlator; tuit, al'ter all, experience 

IS tlie best. 'I'lio thinirs to be baked sh.ouid l)e (juite ready by 

the time the oven is liot. You must hav^ a peel, or lon^-han- 

18 



I 

I 



I f 

p 

i 



•i. 






1 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



died, broad, woodrn sliovf ], to slip under thrrn whrn you sot 
them in or takr tiiorn out, tliat th^ iirat may not hum your 
hands. As soon as thoy ar<^ in, shut rlosoly \\\v df.or of tlie 
ovrn. Pies and larm- loaf-fake:^ (excopt (rincrerbread, wbich 
burns easily) rrquirr a bottrr oven than bread. It is best to 
bake tbe bread by itself; for it may be injured by letting in 
the cold air, if you open the oven door to put in or take out the 
otlier thintTs. Once only will be sufficient (o look at the bread 
while it is bakinjT. ]( tbe loaves contain a quarter of a peck 
of flour each, they will require two hours at least to bake. 
Durin«^r that time, it will be only nvcoss^ry to look at them 
once, (wbich should be at tbe end of the first hour,) and tben 
turn thc^n round, that they nuiy bake evenly; otherwise those 
parts of them that are n(^arest to tbe fire-placf> at tb.e side of the 
oven, will be done too much in prfq)ortion to the rest. It is 
best always to bake bread in iron pans, sprinkled with flour, 
or slifrhtly buttered. When tlu-y are taken out of the oven, 
wr;ip each h^;tf in a clean, eoar^e, nuf towel, and stand ibem 
up 00 end to cool (rradualiy. This will prevent the crust from 
becomintr too hard. 

If you are bakin^ little cakes or tarts, look in at them in ten 
minutes aft(^r they are put into the oven, to see if they are 
nearly done. A lartre plum-cake or fruit cake will reciuire 
six or seven hours to bake; and it should not be taken out till 
tbe oven has nrrown quite cold, hub^ed it will be the better 
for staying: in all ni^ht, keepimr tlje ovrn closed. If a fruit 
cake cools too fast after bakine, it will become douiihy and 
heavy. Keep it covered with a eloth till quiti^ cold. 

The floor of an oven is best of tile, it being smoother than brick. 



FlEl., I IKF. S<, KTt* 



147 



will be very likcdy to ignite the soot. Should it, nevertheless, 
take fire, you will be imuit diately apprized of it by the loud 
roarinn; noise, cuid the falling down of flakes of burning soot. If 
there is no water in the room, have a bucket-full hr(juglit imme- 
diatdy, so as to put out all tbe lire in the hearth; and while 
waiting for the water, throw on all the salt that may \)e at hand ; 
or, what will be still belter, a handful of flour of bulphui, as soon 
as you can obtain it. The sulpliur will frequently extinguish 
even the fire in the chimsuy, if it iias not yet become large. As 
long as it is burning, take care to keep all the doors and windows 
tightly shut, and hold up closely before the fire-plac(; a blanket 
or some other woollen article, for instance, a table-cover or 
hearlh-ru(r, s<j a.s to exclude the air. 

If the roof is dry, let some persons go out at the trap-door, 
carrying with them buckets of water lo pour all round, so as 
to prevent its catching from the sparks that issue from tbe 
chimney. 

In Philadelphia, any person tliat uilo\^s his chimney to get 
on lire, is ii;ible to a line of five- (ioilars; ii bein-jf one wf the 
regulations of the city, that ail chimneys where wood is burnt 
shall be swept unco a month. 



CHIMNKYS ON ITRK.—Wben you have reason to sup- 
pose that a chimney is dirty, keep the fire low, as a hrge blaze 



ACClDENTwS FROM FIRE.— Do not allow yourself to 
contract the inexcusable habit of reading m b(;d at night, it 
never fails to injure tln^eyes; but there is a still greater evil 
attending it, the probability of your insensibly falling asieej', 
and the litrht catchin(r the bed clothes, and conseqiuMitiy, 
endangering your own life, and jurhaps slotting the house on 
fire. The head of the family should see that no ono of ita 
members ever indulges in this senseless and sometiines fatal 
j)ractice. 

In escaping from a room on fire, creep or crawl along with 



'I; 



t r 



I; 



I 






♦ \, 



148 



THE HOl'SE BOOK. 



fl^ 



your face close to the ground, an near the floor the air is purest, 
and there is less dan;jrer of heinfr suffocated with the smoke. 
Persons frequently are saved by letting themselves down from 
the window, by means of a knotted rope, or by sliding down 
a sheet secured at one of the upper corners. 

Children may be saved from the flames of a burning house, 
by means of large, coarse woollen bags, with a strong rope 
attached to each : these bags should be kept constantly in the 

BleeninfT-rooms, and in case of fire, a child may be put into 

it? 

each, (leaving only a small breathing place open at the top,) 
and tlien lowered down from the window. 

Wlien a house is on fire, beds should be placed under the 
windows, to receive the persons who are compelled to save 
themselves by leaping out. 

Children, in winter, should be dressed entirely in clothes of 
woollen or worsted, as these are less liable to catch fire and 
blaze, than linen or cotton. Kven their aprons should be of 
worstfMl ; for instanrc, bomhir/s't or merino. Small children 
Khou!.! never lie left alone in a r('Oin in which there is fire; and 
their sleeping apartments should, on no account, have the doors 
locked. Kvery winter, we Ir.ive at least one instance of a little 
child perishing horribly, by the mother leaving it alone, tied in 
a chair, and ])laced near the fire, while she is engaged in a 
distant part of tlie house, or pt^rhaps goiip out on some errand. 
This is a practice too dangerous for any circumstances to 
excuse. So is that of th(^ parents going out in the evening, 
locking up ilie house, and leaving all the rest of the fimily in 
bed. Such parents, ort comiuir home, may find their house 
un fire, and their children ))erishing in the tlames. 

If the dress of a t'emale eatciies fire when she is alone, if she 
cannot extinu'ii-li it by sijueeziiMj^ it in her ba.ods, let her im- 
medlatelv rin-r i!u hell violently, or knock on the floor; but, 



FUEL, FIREP, ETC. 



149 



if possible, iivoid oj)ening the door to run out, as admitting the 
air, v.ili increase the flame. She should throw herself directly 
on the floor, and endeavour to smother the fire by wrapping 
the hearth-rug closely round her, or by tearing up a part of the 
carpet, if there is no w^ooUen cloth at hand. 

Ill some families a large piece of baize is kept in every room, 
for the pur})ose of extinguishing accidental fire; and the prac- 
tice is a «rood one. In a chamber, a blanket can be immediately 
snatche'l from the beil, '.ind used lor this purpose. A man may 
smother out fir*; in the dress of a temale, by taking ofl' his cloth 
coat, and wrapping it round her. 

Cliildreu sliould be early taught how to s(iu(;eze or press out 
a spark, when ii happens to reach any part of their dress, and 
also that running out into the air will cause it to blaze imme- 
diately. They should also learn, that it is the nature of flame 
to ascend or run upwards. 

The first application to a burn should be sweet oil, putting 
5i <»D immediately, till other remedies can be prepared. Cotton 
sliouid tu rtr be ajsplied. It increases the pain and inflammation. 
For a slight burn or scald, some raw potato scraped fine, and 
tied ('11 the place, (renewing it at intervals,) is an excellent 
remedy, and a very agreeable one to the sutferer. 

It is extremely difiicult to get a horse out of a stable that is 
on fire. It is said, that the best w^ay is to accoutre hint, as 
sj)ee(lily as possible, in the harness or saddle he is accustomed 
to wearincr, and when he feels it on him, he will think he ought 
to go; at the same time blindfi)lding him, by bandaging his 
eyes, or throwing a blanket, a coat, or something of the sort 
entirely over his head. Some years since one of the ])rincipal 
livery stables in Philadelphia took fire, and all the horses (we 
lieliove fifty m number) were saved by blindfolding them. 
Cnless then- eyes are lovered, h'.> that they cannot see 

13* 



r 



■i.. 






li <n 



} ^^ 



■>^ 



-'■ I 



V 4 



ti 



M 



t', -• fi 



160 



THE IIOrSR BOOK. 



the fire, they will run into it in the wildnesH of their 
terror. 



BURN SALVE.—Takp equal quantities of Burgiindy pitch, 
yellow bees-wax, -and swe( t oil; simmer them top^ether over 
the fire till quite melted, stirring the mixture frequently. Put 
it into a salv(> box, and do not ust; it till cool. Spread some 
of it on a soft linen ran;, and ap}>ly it to tlu^ burn, securing the 
rag with a string or bandage. By repeating the ap})lieation, 
it will be found an excellent cure for a burn or scald; and 
it will be well to keep sonic of this salve always in the 
house. 



TO EXTRACT A SPAlUv OF COAL FROM THE 

EYE. In travelling on rail-roads, partich^s of cinder from the 

chimney of the locomotive freciuently fly into the t yes of pas- 
sengers, causing intoh^rable ])ain. and, if not very soon extracted, 
producing intlaminatio!!, A trilling spark may sometimes bo 
expelled from the eye, by pulling down with your fmgrrs the 
lower eyelid, and at the same moment Idowing your nos*- vf^y 
hard. If this does not succeed, at the first stopping-place 
procure a b.risth- from a sweeping-brush, and tie its two ends 
together witb a thread, so as to form a loop. Then let some 
one who has a steady hand insert tliis loop under your < yelid, 
and pass it carefully all round the vyr. Tbe loop will catch 
the particle of cinder and l)ring it out. If not suceessful at the 
first attempt, persist in it, and it will, in almost all cases, 
eventually extract tti< spark. 

Anotht r way (but a less (>nsy one) is, alter wrajq)ing ibe '-orner 
a bott cambric handkercbl* f round the bead of a pin, to b.-t some 
efficient pereon (a medical man. if one is at hand) insert it cart- 
full vIk-ih^ ith the eyelid, and w lib it sweep ill roun.l the ln:.id" c t 



Ft^EL, FIRE^, ETr, 



151 



the eye. This (repeating it, if necessary) will most probably 
brino- out the bit of cinder. 

An < ve-stone (to be obtained at the druggist's) will also 
remove troublesome substances. 

If the eye infla.mes afterwards, it will ])e W(dl to have the 
lower part of the evelid punctured on the inside with a lancet, 
so as to draw blood from it ; and to have a small blister imme- 
diately a.j)plied belunil the ( ar, for the pur{»ose of exeiting a 
counter-irritation. Also to take a dos«! of cooling medicine. 
It is best, however, to have recourse as so;»n as pos:-,ible to a 

physician. 

To avoid these paiiiful and sometimes dangerous accidents, 
ladies should always trav(d with veils ; holding ibem closely 
down over their fac^s, if they find the sparks from the locomo- 
tive likely to be tr()ul)l( some. 



o 



FIRE-SCREENS. — Wlien^ ihere is a jrrale or an open 
stove, hre-screims are- indisprnsable to conifort, and no room 
Bhould he without ono. The bes! are' tliiise with tbr^c slidts. 
Tbey are tall, uprigbt iVames of nialuM^ariy or ofber nandsome 
wood, witl; heavy feet, movintr on castors. Tbe three compart- 
ments ari' square or rather oblong frames, covered with fluted 
or radiatfMl silk. Two of these; compartments are made to slide 
ut from tbe sidf^s of tbe princip,'! trame, so as to add to tbe 
breadtb of the screen when necessary; the third one slides 
upward to giv(^ it additional beigbt. If tbe covers are oi' silk 
or dauiask, the colour should correspond with those of tbe 
curtains and other furnilure. 

Tbf> most usual jvarlour scretns are uprigbt frame-, ot ma- 
h"U'.niV, stsudimj (as all lire scncns sboub! ) "n beaw substan- 
tial feet, tn ju-eveut a.eeulents ffoiu oversr! t J 0'^-. Tbe ser<>eM 

par^ V, bi-]> extends about halfway d.nvn, is a sq\iare frame 



t. 



152 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



1% 



I 
II I 









:?^^ 



coTered with silk, fluted or rudiatfd ; and along its base is a 
sliflf broad t'nouo;h to bold a l)ook or a few sewincr imple- 
ments. 

Instead of silk, fin^-screens for libraries and chambers may 
be covored with varnished maps, pictures, comic drawin^rs or 
prints, riddles, conundrums, &:c. 

A plain, cheap fire-screen for abed-room, nursery, or kitchen, 
mav be made of common wood, (an\ car[)enter will do it,) and 
^ uu can furnish it yourself with a cover of L^reen moreen, or 
any otlier stuiT that is dark and durable. It must be a tall 
ujsri^bt frame, about a yard and a half high and a yard in w idth, 
made exactly like a large towel-horse, with ends or knobs 
risintr above the top bar. There should be another cross bar 
al)out halfway down, to strenfjthen the frame. The cover 
should be a double piece of stuff, made to slip over the frame, 
and v\ sufhcient Icnsrth to descend to tbc floor, sewtMl at the 
sides about halfway down; tlui remainder hemmed and left 
open, so as to form twr) larjro tlaps, which can be fasteru'd up 
at [)b'asur(' w nh striusrs of ribbon or worsted h^rrt't, or with 
loops and b'uitiuis, when you wisb th«' warmth of tbe tke to 
reacdi your limbs. A^ain ; if, in sittintr very near the grate, 
you desire to guard your dress from the danger of b(dng dis- 
coloured by tbc heat, you can let dow n the two flaps, au<l have 
your whole person })rotocted by it. Wben not wanted as a 
fire-screen, you may r<-mov<! the cover, and use the franif as a 
( b'thes-borsc f )r drying muslius and other small articles. 

It is always best to stand the fire-screen in a sidfway posi- 
tion. It can 1m- so placed as to sbelter you etT«'ctually Irom the 
Vieat, without \H'\v,vr itselt ex})osed lo llie injury it may sussUain 
trom slandinir with its full front in tace of tbe lire. 

Hand-scret ns sliouhl nr.l be f )rgotten in furnishing a rc^om. 
They should be large enough to shade the face conij>lete!y, and 



FUEL, FIREP, ETC. 



153 



maybe made very handsome by a young lady of good taste and 
well skilled in drawing. Tlie usual h)undation for such hand- 
screens is very thick ])asteboard or V(Ty thin wood. The 
covers are of fme paper, ornamented with drawings, and pasted 
on very snujothly, the edge being finished with a border or 
biiuiin^r of (rold paper. Wo have seen beautiful lire-scriH ns, 
having in the centr(^ an ('xeelb^nt oval drawing in Indian ink, 
encircled with a wreath of llowers done in c'*b)urs, which 
lociked the hriL'hter from beintr contrasted with the (harkness of 
the <"t ntre-|dece. There are V(Ty amusing hand-scrreens, 
covered with a varit>ty of comic drawings, or with eonundrmns, 
&c., handsomely ami legibly written. All paper scrt-ens 
should l>e ('(rated with transparent varnish, otherwise they will 
soon b( come soiled and discoloured. 

Laro-e feather fans are good substitutes f^r band-screens. 



CnAIR-S('RP:PA'S.~To m;die a very goc-d <'hair-screen, 
cvl a laro-e ^hei t of tlie thiek ^tilT pastrlioard ixed h\ !i..,,khin<!- 
tTs and truiik-niakers, (of w fioni n (an he obtained,) and with 
a knile p/are oil the edgos and trim it to thi- retjnirt tl tizc. It 
should ascend sulliciently above the hwd of the chair to screen 
the nock and shoulders of the- sitter. Make a doubb^ case (like 
a ]>illow-case) of dark chint/ or nioroon, open at one end, ti> 
.slip over the ])astehourd. At eaidi of the lower r-orners, sew a 
stroinr striu"" of stiuit ribbon or worsted tajie, and j)lace tw) 
Other strinixs about half a yard f irtln r up, on the side edges or 
S( anis ol' the cover. Wlicii the covi r i> fmisln d, slip it over 
liie pa--1ehoard, and sow it ah-UL;- the t)olioiii lilire, to k( i p th(5 
board fro:ii tailing out. When ready f'^r use tio it 1>\ the 
slriiin> !'• liio out-ide ol' the ha.(dv of ihr ch.iir. Tlirco df 
fiur of ihrse screens wiii he fnund very convouient m doning- 
ro>.in<, to screen from the heat tin hacks of tliose persons who 



i 



M 
m 

I f 'a 



•!» 



b'V 



K? ^ 



, r* 



1 li 



t 



■V 



154 



TllL H U i: y E BOOK. 



155 



sit on the side of the tabh; next iIk: lire. Also, they will save 
the ("hairs from bting scorched and idistered. 

\<)[i may have slighter chair-screens, by simply making 
cas( s of thick monM>n, without pasteboard; leaving the lower 
end open to slip down over the cliair-back. 



I 



l> 



L I (1 II I S, &ic 



t 

LAMP OIL.— The best lamp oil is that which is clear and 
nearly -(dourless, like water. Noiu; hut the winter-strained 
.Ml should bf- used in ccdd weather. 'Hiick, dark-cohnirtid oil 



rns badly, (particularly if it is old,) and there is no economy 
iu trying to use it. Unless you re(|uir(> a great deal every 
idoht it is well not to get more than two or three gallosis at a 
time, as it spoils by kcepiiig. Oil that lias been kept several 
months will fre(|uently not burn at all. Wlivn that is h)und to 
bo the case, it is Ix^st to empty it all out, clean thoroughly the 
..„ ;,,r. .t.-o h'.,< .•notnincd it. and re-hll it with good 



can or jug 



that has contained it, and re-hll it 



fresli (»il. 

Tbf TO arr- latin- ( il-vossols wdth cock^, and keys bclongm 



to them. 



CT.EAMXn AX OlT.-CAX.—IIaving thoroughly emptied 
it of the dregs of the oil, f.isten a rag to the end of a stick, ami 
with it scrub er wipe round the inside and bottom, till you 
luive <rot out all the sediment. Next, wash out the can, by 
pourinir in a lather of brown soap and warm water, rubbed 
about with a clean rag on the sti.d^ ; and having rinsed it w. 11 
with C(dd water, turn it up to drain. 

(Mean tin- outside n( the tin with whiting wet with water, 
.md rub!)ed bri<rht with a rag. Then hli it with clear fresh oil. 



AN'OTTIER WAY.— Aft.r emptying the oil-can, and remov- 
Hur the sediment from the bottom, as above, by means ol a rajf 



* ■ , 



1 56 



Tij r. }i ors K !U)(>K 



f 



t 



I 



u 
«. 



fastciifMl to a St ids, jii! the r\m witli warm watrr, in which a 
larn;)' tabic -sp(M)iirul (if jx'arl-ash h.is hct'ii in''!t»(i. Piil on the 
eovrr, and it-l it stand ail ninht. Then rinsr it out with two 
c>T three warm wntors, and jmt it to drain, Tht n lill it an*nv. 

li" the insi(i( (4 an oil-can is aUowed to {-I'lhct scdiniiiit 
\N ithont rii(j,Lant cioainn^ out, it will >})oil the Iresh oil that is 
put in, and rauRP it to Inirn badly. 

Alwa\s kf ( j) th( oH-c ui on ;in old waiter, or ^o^lething■ of 
tin sort, to receive whatt vi r grease iiuiy come IVom it 



LIGHT ?*, KTC. 



157 



ASTTJAT, LAATPS..— In buyim. a^tr;d lamps for tlie table, 
ehoose the shades ot' plain 'ground jHass, as tin y ^ive the char- 
e<=;t and steadie>1 li^'hl. and are best tor the evt'S, pailieularly 
\\ lit li (inplcyed in re;.diiip. wrilimj, ''r needlework. Lamp 
shades ])a!nted m 1)rinbl d'hairs a.re now considered jn very 
bad t.iste, ;md are nrarly f'Xploded in nenteel housi s. Trie 
tasiiidu of havna/tlM- -."liace,- ii( corated wilb Houer- or oiher 
drvires, cut on lh( i_;l<iss and lell t ransjiarenf, is a!5o lai Liu; 
dt'chne: and most fortunately, as it is a vi ;y iiad one for lamps 
tliat are niti nd( d ti r a-elui rather than ornaiiienlai pauposes; 
t!ioii;jh It may do\\(!l enough for mantei-la.mps and lii.^trt s. 
The transparc nt t!o\serin(i- breaks and distracts tin liniit, and 
its scattered brinhlno^ i,rlitters in the < vcs, and is ev( i.tiially 
\erv pefjiicious to tin m, thoujHi )1 may not sc'cm so ;it I'lr^t ; 
also tin' irren;uianly w ith which it ialls renders the liehl miadi 
less easy tor r( adin^r or sew injr than ihe sedt, steady, iimlorm 
rays f rum a shade ot jtlain <iround i.^iass. I*'or linlitiuLi cp jdc- 
tuies, flnwrrod shades should on no arcount b*' us* d. a^ th» y 

X\ill deStr<'V the et]( et tit" the liaintimr, 

T-i buy t.dile astral lamps r,l" interior '~\/.r. i-^ b\ n" means 
advisable, Thev oidv tyive Imht m propM.rtn n to tin ir mafTTii- 
tude ; and when they are sma'! and h-v, , tl.e efTert of s*-* nm !;y 



them is so teazlnn; to the optic nerve, that the eyes, however 
stronir oriirinaliy, sfddom fail to become weak in (*onsequence. 
It is also false economy, to diminisli the li'^ht, by keepinij, the 
lamp low, for the juirpose of saving a little oil ; as many have 
diseovered, when loo late; after their eyes were irreparably 
injured by thi^> foolish practice. 



MANACiKMKXT OF ASTkAL LAMPS.— I se none but 
th»> best oil, Jis that of inferior price aaid quality will lie fouiui 
more inconvenient than economical. Ivvcept m warm weatb.er, 
the wifiter stra.ined oil is the (>nly srirt that is tit fur lamps, as 
ii is not liabh: to chill ; and when chilled, no oil will burn. It 
should look (dear and limpid like water. Do not buy to . nnicli 
oil at once, as it lVe(iuently spoils by k(>epin(J, so as t.) bccnine 
useless. For hllinLr the lamps, have a c(!vered tin pot or can 
witii a iorui; s})out turned iipv,ards at the point, lest it should 
drip al't"r pourim/. Ke«'p a distinct oil-can for the ])arh)iir lamp. 
Phnose firm ii'jht-v\oven wieks. fme in texture, and with evcil 
(vJKrs. Coarse, ilimsv. lwos< Iv-woven wicks, alssorb nea-e oil 
tlian the ilame will consume; and const apaently, tlu- cup or 
reservoir bein'j; too full of oil, the air-hol(;s are ch<d;eit,and the 
Ilame id.a'/es out at tht^ top (d' the n;lass chimney, so as tr, en- 
dan- I'r its craekintr. Keep tiie wicks in a j)iace u 'acre ih y 
will be clean and dry ; a.nd ahva.ys have in the house some extra 
lamp-^l■asses or chimney:^, to be ready in ease oi ac< nl aii . 
They also should be perfectly dry. 

No one should iriin lamps with damp limjers. 

It IS well to have a small basket ior the purpose of CMufain- 
lu'- whateviM' is necessarv fa trimmimf the laiuii). Aeros-. tiio 
top of tin-- ba.dv't, (wliicii sleMild have side handh-^,; let there 
be f.i.teued two terhl strin<rs of thi(dv twine, to siipp'>rt the 
bhade or globe of the lamp when you take il eel. Ttie I wni»- 



158 



THE IlOrSE lUJOK. 



LIGHTS, i:tc. 



159 



I? 



•3 



scissors should be very sharp, or it will be impossible to trim 

the w ick ])rf)])erly. 

A lamp that is nirrhtly in use should be trimmed and 
rr[>!enisliea re^rularly every mornin^r, otherwise there will be 
no certainly in its Ininwncr, and it will ^ro out unexpectedly at 
any lime in the evenin<r, leavinrr the room in d.-rkness. AUer 
yen hav(> r. niov.'d the shade and the ^rlass chimney, raise the 
wick by tiirniiiL;- the screw towards the ri^rht hand, and cut oil 
Avith ihr lamp-scissors, or nip olT with your thumb and tiiKicr 
the (lice ot tie' wick that has been burnin^r the iiiuiit before; 
but (if) not trim it too closely, or you will find it diflicuil to 
li'^ht acrain. It is sullicient, barely to cut olF the rim of the 
brown crust. When you find that the wick is reduced by 
burninn, to only al)0ut an inch and a half in len^rih, it is time 
to take it out and put in a new one. In winter, a new wick 
will be re(juircd once a week; in the short summer eveninjrs, 
it will of course last luiMjer. Always do tlu^ wick before the 
(,ii. riran out evory mornin^(, the cup or candU'stick part that 
catches the droppinj^s. \\ ipe out with a clean soli cloth, ^or 
instance, an old napkin, or old silk handkerchief,) the glass 
chimney, and the shade; and dust well their outsides, and also 
ev(^ry pan of the lamp, Then rej)lace it on the table to be / 
ready for cveninnr. 

When you li«rht it, remove the shade and the chimney, and 
icrnitc the wick with a paper match, a supply of which should 
always be kc})t in some convenient place. 'I'iiey should be 
luadr of wast.' wrltiut,^ papor cut into lontr slips, and lolded, 
and creased v.-ry hard. If of newspapt r or any other that is 
not stiif enoucrh, llie llam<' will run alona them so fast as to 
fndan<r('r your finnrrs. As s(ion as the wick is iirnitf'd all round. 
put on the chimney and the shade, turn the screw^ to the ri<rht, 
and raise the li^rht at once to the height at which it is to 



continue thr..ngh the evening. The practice of keeping the 
wick low for a considerable time after it is lighted, is a bad 
one, as by doing s(; a cn!st forms round it which dims the light 
{v,T the whoh- rvening. Take care, howevrr, not to raise the 
!,<rht SO hi«'h as for the tlame to blaze out at tlie top of th<' i him- 
I nry, as that \\\\\ certainly crack the glass, uuhss it is let down 
inmuHliately by turning th(> scrow to thi^ h ft. When you 
wish to extinguish the lamp entirely, turn the scrt;w to ih<' h tt 

as far as it will go. 

When vou an^ about lighting an astral lamp, see that your 

fingers havo no wet or damp on thom. 

One*; a weok the chimney and shade of tho lamp should be 
washed out well with luke-warm soai.-suds, th. n rins. d m 
clean wat.r, and wiped and dried thorouglily. 

The hunp should be taken to ])lecrs, and umh rgo a comph'te 
,.], anin.r once a month. To clean it : aftor it is all takon apart, 
empty the rosorvoir over thr kitchen sink, tlirowiaa out wh;if^ 
,,vor"oil i> in II. Havo r. ;,dy, m a i-itcher, a pmt of warm 
water, in whirh has boon di.snlvrd a largo table-spoonful of 
pearl-ash. Pour this into tho r. sorvmr, and Irt it stand ■.'.bout 
three hour?, shaking it round fro.pnntly. Then i.our it out, 
and rinse tho r. servuir soveral linu'S with clean warm w/.tor; 
b.r li any of the prarl-ash romams, it will b.rm xMth tlu' o,! a 
sort of soap, m.d prevont its burmng. Dram t!.o r.sorvmr iho- 
rou-hlv, by turning it upsid,- down, and lettiu- it stand a whilo 
,,„., pUuo. Tako care that the poarl-ash touchrs no pari of 

til! nnf^id' "f tiic lanip. 

If tho truno and stand of the lamp is platod, oh.M, it but soi- 
dom,andth..nu^.opowd.r.d whit.n-of thoHnost Kind nr ]>ro. 
pnr..drha!k,mado into a pa.to vs nh wh.-Kov, and rubb. d on 
with a soft Ibnnoi. Th. n tini^h with a bu.^ksk.n, and brush 
out the rouoh or embossed parts will! a rloan to,oth-brush. 



160 



LIGHTS, ETC. 



161 



THE HOUSE ROOK. 



P 



j3s 



' -I 



If f i 




If the stand (jr fraiiio ftf tlic lamp is of bronze, clfan it hy 
merely niljhiiig- il weil with a yufl dry cloth. The saiue if it 
is nilt. 

\\ li( !i (Very part iias Ijeen thorourrhly clea.rKMl, replenisii it 
wilii fresh eil and fiesh wick, and j)iit the lani}) t()jT»'th(.'r. 

U hen all your lainj>s (niantid, ^c.) tiave been in us(^ for 
couipanv, they should next inornin(»; hv <Mnj)tie(l comph'tcdy of 
oil and w !ck, and w a.^hed out with luke-warin pearl-ash and 
water. I i' i!i( ml and u iek are left in iheni, vcrdiijTease will 
accuiuulali , whiidi, when they are liiditeii a^ain, will caiis(> 
them t(( siii-ikc isistcad (d" burn. The oil that is taken from 
these lamps should \)V put into a can and saved to use- f )r the 
kitidn n. On the day of your next company, (and not till tlieii,) 
ie[>h iii^h tht m anew. I niess a lamp is uscil nightly, no oil 
and w i(d\ siiould be ]( ft in it, even lor a sin<fh; day. 



I].N'I'K\' liAMPS. — iMitry lamps -diouid be trimmed every 

lui 'reiiiM. ;;ii(i Ij.jhici ;m Ronn ns the sun i;asspt; as nt that lime, 
ih'- hali (M ( uity is always so d.irk, that no one can tind thoir 
w.iv llirMHL'h II Without dilhcultv. W'tiere the dra\^'ln(>■-room 
is ;ip sl;urs, tin re should be a second lamp, to li^ht the stair- 
ca-! and llic up{H'r passa(.n\ 

A'.i' r ihr hir<.'f' < ntry lamp is extinu'iisheil, on tiir lamily 
11 10'.: til hid, a siuail brass lamp should be kefit burniufi" all 
niliiit, (11 a table iu the passai^e, or landinfr-placc of tlu^ hwver 
stair>. that a liLjht may always be at hand, in cas<" of any por- 

SOii hi i li;,' !idv(m Sliddi 111 V li 1. 

In hoii-, -^ thai -t;iud somewhat bafdv from the stret t. with a 
litlh' n;irdi II II! tV.iMt, It IS wadl (partKailarl v wiien visio rs are 
exjioeted) to phiei' w hiinp on a sh* ll' fixed for the purpose, in 
the f,ui-le^ht oV(^,r the fVon! do^r. 'i'hi< wil! Imht the s^iK'^ts 
on llu ir way Irom tht ^aie to the e jur-blep, and is a ^freat cou- 



venience on a dark or wet ni<rht. Most of the best houses have 
permanent lamps at the foot of the door-tete[»s. 

Hall lamps of stained jrlass are very elecrant, tlieir colours 
throwintT a beautiful tint on the walls and lluor. 



L AM P-Rl^GS. —These are small square ruprs, to prevent 
the feet of the lamps from niarkinjr the table. The ch( apest 
are made of oil-cloth, liniHl underneath with ^rr* en baize, and 
bordered with a very thi(d< worsted frin^re, which may he 
bounht, by th(.^ yard, at the trimminn; stores, 'i'ln handsonu st 
lamp-ru(T;s are workiul on canvas with cr( \v< Is oi diiferent 
colours; the centre done in eross-stit(di or (pmen-stitch, and the 
ed^re decorated with a standin^r liorder, or wr( ath of llowtTS 
inneniously made of crewel. Some have a hieh (dose border 
all round, imitatinn; v« Ivet or plush. This is made by workinft 
the crewel oviT a mesh, or strai^dit slip of wood, (like a ruler,) 
al)Out an incli and a half bn.ad, so as to f)rm successivi> rows 
f.f lontr loops, with an interval of two or time tlireads of canvas 
between each row. \Vh< ii all is done, the hmps ar( cul hy 
runninrr scissors thr((Uoh ttiem ; and then the suriaee i^ «v( nly 
sheanul, so as lo resemble very thi(dv velvet. Tiie netMlles used 
for th.is work slnaild be hufrv. and blunt-pointed, like bodkms, 
and the cr(>W(d should be put into thran three (U- four (h able, in 
very lonjr iH'edlefuls. Hearth-ru^s worked all ov« r in tins 
velvet stitch, on 7'rry coarse canvas, are extr(anely rndi and 
beautiful, and (d' the greatest durability. 

In doinrr worsted work, you will find very convenient a 
rcc(!ptacle for the needle?., as you must have a separate needle 
for every shade of the crewf 1. A very simj»le contrivance l(jr 
this purjx.se, is lo lake a galln-up, or something; else that has 
a rid^e round the toj), and tie over it a hii (d canvas. l"v*,ep 

this beside you to stick your needlep in whih- at w«»rk. 

14* 



102 



Tin; iiiMhi: book. 



JLlOilTS, ETC. 



163 



It!'- 



■'11 



n 




Si 






f 



M 



('HAM}5KI^ I.AMPS.--S!n;i!l j-apanned lampr^ an tiic mobt 
ciirivcnirni for carryiriLT up and down stairn, and fur lighting- to 
Im(1. 'I'licy siuoild he r(Mj,iilarl v rcpli nishrd eve I'v HiDDiiu'j;, hy 
iih^rrrw imr tli,. top and iillinn thiun up vvitli oil, firbt adding- a 
rifw \\ K-k, if nofcssary. The wick should ho ahout a (jua.rtor 
<d a yard in h'ULTth ; and unless the lanij) is k-pi l)urn!nn- all 
the t vf iiiMi^r, it w ill not rocpiiro ronrwinir for throe or four <iays. 
'JTie wi(d< is put in hy drauinir i,, t})rounrh the soidvot, and 
should he pulletl up at the top ^ iih a [liii to a r-onveiiient 
heu_r!i! jnr liuhiiuLT. Tlu' n-rfH'ers sell it in halls. 

Mv( ry eveninfr hefore dur.K, as many of lliose hfMJ-larnps as 
may he wanted hy tlu^ rnendiers of thr family, sliould he ranned 
on a ia])anned waiter, with a hrass lami) of iar(n;r size hurnincr 
m the niid.ile, and a few paper matfbos ])]ared on one side. 
'J'lie waiter of laiuj.s sliould he kept on a small tahle (o^r on 
shelvfs e(*mieeted hy a franu') at llie first landiu'T-phioe of tin; 
stairs, (,r in a recess (,r retired purt r f tli,^ imjl or entry heh'w. 
'vV liii^> e,,iiveiiifnt aiTan[j-eiii( nt, everv person tliMt u.oits ;i 
i:uiij> eau supply hiuis, !f .u enee, willieul v, ailing to riiur 
t"r a servant to hrni[^- une.and can lioht it conveniently without 
ce-uiiuu into tin parluur f u the purj)ese. Lmhtinsj^ a small <>iw, 
at an a>tral hiinp roipiires mnr<^ dexterity and more nerve tlian 
lalis to the lot'.f uin.ny [Persons; as, when the match is insi rted 
intn tin i:lass chnunt y, the iVann' rur.s up instantly tu the liaud, 
:uul tie rt is daiii^er id' droppino- it on the carpet, hefore it can 
bf" cirriid to the Icarth. All this .lilhculty is ohviat( d hy 
l^o( pio'j ;! I;imp-t;'h!e !ii a phice convenient to the parhMir, with 
a lamp aluays hurniurr, h_^- which to llgiiL ihe small ..nesudun- 
evt r they are want d. 

'Hie h'uo- if: hall wick usi d fir ("finmon lamps mav he mcc-h 
iuiproved hy cuttiuLT it into ])ieccs several yards lono;, steepintr 
th. rn in a cup f{ vinri:nr. lh(m -pmadinq; them out to drv, and 



when (juiic dry winding- them on a card. The sleeping; m 
vinegar will cause ih.e wick to give ii clciu'er and hett(>r light, 
and when blown out it is extinguished immediately, leaving 
no Hiuuke or disai^reeiihle siuell. 



KITCTTI^X LAMPS— Sh(aild he of brass or block tin, 
with broad bottonus like chamber candlesticks. They also 
should be k(.'pt clean and replenished every d.ay. 



l.ANTKJxXS. — Kvery heuse should be provided with one 
or more lanterns to carry out of doors at niglit, or to tak(' into 
:i st;d)le, barn, or any other place where an micovered candle 
or lamp mioht be daugeroiis. 

Jianterns with glass sides are so easily cracked thaJ we do 
not recommend them. Tbey are mu<di hotter wlien gla/ed 
with horn, or pf^rtorate-d all over with small hob's. It' tlu^y 
have lamps in them, care should he taken \o trim and, replenish 
these lamps d;iily, 'hat tic hmtrrn lu '.y .dwavs he re idv if 
w.mled \\l ni"ht. It is he>! t > gfM, a lantern w ith a -^"ckt t at 
the bottom, so th:U either :i lami) or a picM-e of candle can he 
]. laced in it, as -nay he iciosf eMiuaaiient. The piece of candle 
must not he very long, or it will heat the top of th(; latitern so 
as to Imrn the lingers of the person tliat carries it. 

The small lamps used I'nr placiuLr in the sockets of lanterns 
arc like those without bottoms or stands, that are made to pd.u-c 
in broad kitchen candlesticks. 



FLOATING TAPEKS.--To hum all night m a (diaad)er, 
no lights are so (dieap and so convenient as tloating tapers. 
In travf Uijuj;, it may l)e fuiiud of great advantage to put in 
your trunk a small box of them, containing also the il rat. or 



164 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



LIGHTS, ETC. 



165 



u '^ 



¥?% 



U 'i.ii 



■i 



■% 
p 



i 






i 



■*-, 



tl 



little apparatus of tin and cork, that supports them in the oil. 
When you stop for the niglit, ask for an old lea-cMip or some- 
thin'T of t!ie sort filled with lamp-oil, on tlie top of which place 
tlu' iloat with a t'ij>er on it. Set the li<rht in the chimney, and 
if you are incommoded by its beams, faint as they are, it is 
easy to accustom yourself to sleep with a silk handkerchief or 
a broad ril)l)on tied over your eyes. In the morning; remember 
to take the Iloat out of the cuj), wipe it, and return it to the 
tn])(r-box, th;it you may have it ready for tlie next night. The 
little tin pluTs or tweezers, that come in the box, are used lor 
takiuL,^ the tapers oif the float. 

The best tloatino; tapers (as we have found) are those with 
wood(Mi bottrans, and of the smallest size. They come in 
boxes w ith a London mark. Tlie box contains a little pair of 
pliers, a ihrat, and tapers enounjh to burn every nin:]it for several 
months : the cost is frenerally but twenty-five cents, and no 
litrht consumes so small a (luantity ol oil. 

As it IS not wril to waste any thini;, however clieap, we 
recommend, in fuiiiln'S wies find it necessary to ecrMioinr/e 
IM trillimr exjxMises, that the wooden IxAtoms of the? thiuting 
tapers shall not l)e thrown away in the mornin*,^ after the li^ht 
is extiniruished. Let them be saved in an old box k<'pf ;it hand 
for the purpose, and when a box full is thus collectf^d, tln^y 
can be us(mI over again by furnishing them with fresh wicks, 
made as fiillows : 

To rcnnn Jlimtinix inper;^. — Havintr saved a sufficient quan- 
tiiy of old bottoms belon(ring to tapors that have br^m used, 
wipe them clean one by one, and sjiread them out on a sheet 
of coarsf^ paper. Melt some white wax, and take sonw of the 
vcrv finest or smaUest white cotton rord, such as is scarcely 
thicker than a co;irsc thread. Haviun; meited the wax, dip the 
cord iuto it while hot, so aB to covf-r it completely u ith a coat- 



ing of the liquid. Then dry it in the open air, and when quite 
dry and stifiT, cut it into pieces of equal size about an inch in 
length, and put them through the holes of the old taper-bot- 
toms, leaving a little bit beneath or on the under side to he 
turned up, and pressed hard against the wood with your finger, 
80 as to stick fast and secure the wick from slipping out. 
Put the tapers into a box, and keep them for use. 



NKJUT [.AMPS.— There are a variety of lam])S for hurn- 
infr uU ni<Tht in chambers; an excellent custom, which fre- 
quently prevents much inconvenience, particularly in cases of 
sudden illness. In every house it is well to have a lamp 
burning the whole night, in at least one of the rooms. Many 
persons are unwilling to sleep in a lighted room, thinking that 
the siglit of the objects all around will disturb them, and that 
none of the shaded lamps sufTiciently obscure the light. To 
obviate this objection, we know of no better contrivance than 
a flontiiMj taper placed in a cup of oil, and shut up in a small 
dark lantern; such as may be j)urchased at a tin-store fi)r fifty 
or seventv-five cents. If tliere is a socket in the bottom of tlie 
lantern, it had best be taken out, that the oil-cup may set 
Kteadily on the floor. A little six-cent tin cup is the best thing 
to hold the oil; with which having filled it, place on the sur- 
face one of th»^ cork-floats that come in the taper-boxes, and 
every night set a tajx-r on the float. 

After the taper is settled in the centre of the cork float, ignite 
it by holdinfj a lifhlfMl paper-match to its side; j)lace the cup 
of ell on the floor of tln^ dark lantern, (which should set on the 
JH-.ulli,) an.l shut \ip the door. There will be a srjfficienf (jlim- 
nieriiin; tlirounb, the air holes at the toj), just to sliow where it 
is and if at any time in the night you should want a larger 
p(,riion of light, you can oj)en tlie door of the lantern or slide 



16G 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



LIGHTS, ETC. 



167 



up one of tlie tin shutters at the side. If you have occayion 
to lij^ht a candle or lamp from the floatininr taper, take the oil- 
cup out of the lantern and s<^t it on a small plate or saucer kept 
on tlie hearth for the purpose, and apply a paper mateh to it. 
A sup])ly of paper matches should be kept in every room. 

In tiic morninjr l)Iovv out the taper, and let the oil-cup be put 
away on the plate, for if lifted in the lantern it may spill. 

If there is no chimney in the room, and the weather will not 
permit a window-sash to be raised, the vapour of any n'urhl 
lirrht will he unwholesome to sleepers — therefore set it outside 
of the room-door on an ;)ld waiter. 

You may remove oil-grease from a hearth, by coverinfr it 
immediately with thick hot ashes or with burning coals. When 
thus swept oil', if the oil is not ([uite jj^one, spread some more 
hot ashes, or a little Wilmington clay. 



VERY CHEAP FLOATING TAPERS.— From a ball of 
common iam()-wick unwind a yard or two, of wliich you must 
take three threads. Have ready a pit!ce of wax vilxnil thesr/.t^ 
of a large walnut, either common bees-wax, or the ends of 
wax candles heated a little and squeezed together into a solid 
lump. Take a tin cup or a small sauce-pan filled with water 
that is boiling hot. Throw into it tiie lump of wax, and when 
it is nu'lted and tloats on the top of tin? water, dip in \hv \\i*k, 
curling it about in th(^ melted wax. When the wick is sulll- 
ciently coated, withdraw it, and hold it up to drain and con- 
geal ; then lay it on a plate. When quite cold, mt it, with 
scissors, into bits about thr«M'-(juarters of an inch m jen'j^tb, 
(not larger, or they may smoke,) and put them away in a box. 

For using lbes(! wieks you must have one of those large 
circular cork tloats, tb.at are covered all ovvr tiie surface with 
tin to keep the cork from burning. They come in some of the 



imported boxes of floating tapers. Put the wick through the 
small hole in the centre of the float, pressing or plastering the 
lower end against the under side of the cork, to prevent its 
slipping out through the bottom. Set this taper in a cup of the 
best oil, and it will l)urn well all night. iNext night put a 
fresh wick into the float. 

This will be found the most economical of night lamps. 



CANDLES.— Candles im})rove by keeping for a few 
months; tbos^. triade in winter are tiie best. The most econo- 
mieal as well as the most convenient plan, is to purchase them 
by the box, keeping them always in a cool dry place. 

If wax candles become discoloured or soiled, they may be 
restored, by rubbing them over with a clean flannel, slightly 
dipped in s{)irits of wine. 

Candles are sometimes troublesome to light. They will 
ignite instantly, if, when preparing them for the evening, you dip 
the top in spirits of wine, sliortly before they are wanted. 

Light them always witii a match, and do not bold ihem to 
the lire, as that will ^ausr> the tops to melt and dri[). Always 
hold the match to the side of the wMck, and not over the top. 

If you And tb.em too small for the candlesticks, wrap neatly 
roimd the bottom end a small piece of white paper, not allowing 
the paper to appear above the socket. Cut the wicks at once to 
a convenient length for lighting, (nearly close,) for if the wick is 
too long at the top, it will be very difficult to ignite, and will 
also bend down, and S(^t the candle to running. 

(ilass receivers for the droppings of candles are very con- 
venient, as well as ornamental. These are to br' liad at ihe 
principal china stores, atul those that are of cut-glass are t>\- 
tremrly elegant. Tb.ey have a hole, through which the candle 
is passed when they are placed on the socket of the candlestick 



/ 



■-H' 



1G8 



THK in* USE liOOK 



or branch ; and projecting ail nnjnd in the form of leaves or 
shells, they receive the droj)])in<rs of the wax or sp(Tmaeeti. 

'i'iie pieces (A candle that are left aiter burninu- an evi-ninir, 
sh' tild be laid in a tin box kept i\>r the purpose, and used for 
bed-lio-hts. Even if the j.i«>ces are tolerably lonn-, they should 
not :t^rain be introduced as parbair linhts, lor in jrenteel families 
It IS not customary to commence their evenin^r with half-burnt 
candles. 



TO MAKi: (OMMON MOl LD CA\J)[J<:s.-ror this 

l>'ir|.ose, you will re(,uire a set n\' tm moulds, coutainin.r tubes 
I'T fair nr six candb's ; a stronrr strai^rht stick al)out liaif a yard 
ionir, to i^ro across the top ; and six or eioht -A-o.^bn pro-s. Vou 
must have also, a l)all of clean cotton camib-uick ; and a sulH- 
<'i«'"t .piaiitity of Insh raw mutton suet. I/aUib fit must not be 
mixrd v\ith It, as il will cause th.> candles to run. 

']'.» pre])a.re the wicks, cut the cotton into double lennths, 
somewhat luDm-r tbaii ilie' iif- moulds. With a l.o.dkiu or souic- 
thmo oi the s,Mt, draw the vn icks (.baibio) throu-h tiic nioulds, 
h-,iMU'^ a loop at the Dp of each, ami a pure ommji out at the 
l^'^itom. J^in the stick throuuh these loops at the lop ; and 
secure the wicks where ihcy come (ait at the bottom of the 
innulds, by wrappinir tiiem tinhtly rouml thf: wooden pens, so 
as to prevent the tallow from rumimi,^ out when it is poured ui. 

Cut up the suet; put il mto a pot (A'er the fire, and melt it 
tl.-rousrhly, skimmm^r a well. Then strain it through a coarse 
ciotlMuIoa HiunvMih aspout,aud pour II hot int<. the modds, 

flilil-- theUi COM.pletelv. S.I t hem ou t of ,] oofs f,r i !,e .siudbs 

to cuol, or, what i. still b. tier, stand tiie moubls in a ves- 
^rd rd'ccd.l water; or put a liitb. icc ,,r snow r.Miud tb-em if 
you are ,n baste t<, <ret them cold. rree/um will make them 
white. VVhrn you are certain tiuit the tallow is cjuite cold and 



LIGHT?', Fin 



169 



bard, dip tlie monbis for a moment into warm water, to loosen 
the candles; and then, pullino^ them upwards by the cross stick 
at the top, draw them carel'ully out. if you draw them too 
soon, the wicks will come out and lf;ave the tallow. Trim off 
the ends of the wicks at the bottom and top, and the candles 
will be fit for use next evenino-. 

From a quarter of fine mutton, (including the leg and loin,) 
ycni may cut olf sullicient fat or suet, to make four large mould 
eandb^s. After they are made, (if the season is winter,) put 
lliem out of doors a nii(bt or two, that they may freeze wiiite. 



8MALI. WAX CANDLES — Or bougies, for sealing 
letters, may be made in a manner similar to the above. You 
must procure from a tinner a set of very small moulds. The 
wicks yhould be of fine smooth cotton, and thinner than for large 
candles. 'J'he wax (either white or coloured) you can obtain 
from the druggists. Melt it thoroughly. As it is already refined, 
it requires no straining previous to pouring it into the moulds. 



FINE HOME-MADE CANDLES.— For these the ingre- 
dumts are in the following proportion : — I'ake ten ounces of 
fresh mutton fat or suet, a (juirter of a pound of bleached white 
wax, a (piarter of an ounce of cam{)b.or, and two ounces of 
alum. Cut or l>reak u}) all these articles, and then melt them 
togetlier ; skimming them well. Have ready the wicks, 
(which should be previously soaked in lime-water and salt- 
petre, and then tlioroughly dried,) fix them in the moulds, and 
pour in the melted liquid, proceeding as in the receipt for com- 
mon mould candles. 

Candles made in this manner of the above materials, are 
hard and durable, arul will not run; burning also with a very 
clear litrbt. 



1G8 



THK HOUSE BOOK. 



LIGHTf, FTC. 



169 



or branch; and projecting a!i round in the iorm of loaves or 
shells, they receive the droppinj^rs ef the wax or spermaceti. 

'J'he pieces of candle that are left alter hiirninu- an eveninir, 
Hhould he laid in a tin box ke])t fur the })urpose, and used for 
h.'d-hn},is. Kven if the piec( s are tolerably lon^r, they should 
not a^ain he intr.;duerd as parh.ur lights, lor in jreriteel taniiiies 
It is not customary to commence their eveninn- xAith iialf-hurnt 
candb's. 



TO MAKi: COMMON MOV U) CAXJ)Li:s.-.|\.r th,s 

P'np.Kse, yoii wiji re.juire a s.-t of tin moulds, contaimn,r lubey 
lor f .iir or six candles ; a stronrr straiirjn stick about half a vard 
loiifT, to j^o across the lop ; and six <.r eij^ht wooden peas. Vou 
imiHL have al^), a ball of clean cotton candle-wick; an<i a sulli- 
fient . quantity of frosh raw inufom sia 1. Lamb fit must not be 
loixrd with it, as it will cause tho candles to run. 

'Jo prepare tiie wicks, cut the cotton into (!,>uide b'n[rth3, 
somou haf lon<r,.r than the im moulds. With a brMlKin or >ome- 
tn!s;u of Ibo sort, diaw thr v\ o-ks (double) throu-ii tbo wioulds, 
I'-avma a loop at tbo l,,p of , aril, and a pie<'e cominj^ out at the 
l^.ttom. Run the suck throuoh these loops at tho top ; and 
secure the wndvs where they com.; out at the bottom of the 
moulds, by wrappmir them tiubtly round the w<.odrn peus so 
VIS t.. prpvem the tallow from run, .una out when it is po.irod „,. 
("or up the suet; put it mto a pot over the hre, and melt it 
thnrounhly, skimmiuu it welL 'I'lien s^train it through a c.-arRe 
clntlMuioa muowith a spout, an.i pour it hot into the m-.,; bis, 
^^'^"-' '^"^" <-"H.pb toly. S, 1 iborn out of doors lur tiie candles 
to cool; or, uhal is still b. ;;or, staiid the moulds iu a ves- 
f^H of eold wafrr; or put a iittlr n-,' or snou roui.l iboni if 
you are m haste to .r^ them cobi. Free/ann will luak, ilMmi 
v-lute. When you are certain tha; the tallow is quite cold and 



bard, dip the moulds for a moment into warm water, to loosen 
the candles; and then, pullincr them upwards by the cross stick 
at the top, draw them carefully out. If you draw them too 
soon, the wicks will come out and leave the tallow. Trim olF 
the ends of the wicks at the bottom and top, and the candles 
will be fit for use next evenintj. 

From a (juarter of fine mutton, (including the leg and loin,) 
you may cut otf sutiicient lat or suet, to make four large mould 
caridb\s. After they are made, (if the season is winter,) put 
them out of doors a niaht or two, that they may freeze wliite. 



SMALL WAX CxViNDLES — Or bougies, for sealing 
letters, may be made in a manner similar to the above. You 
must procure from a tinner a set of very small moulds. The 
wicks should be of fine smooth cotton, and thinner than for large 
candles. The wax (either white or coloured) you can obtain 
from the druggists. Melt it thoroughly. As it is already refined, 
it requires no straining previous to pouring it into the moulds. 



FIXK HOME-MADE CANDLES.— For these the ingre- 
dients are m the following proportion ;^ — Take ten ounces of 
iresli mutton i'at or suet, a (juarter of a pound of bleached white 
wax, a (juarter of an ounce of camjdior, and two ounces of 
alum, (^it or lireak up all these articles, and then melt them 
together; skimming them well. Have ready the wicks, 
(which should be {ireviously soaked in lime-water and salt- 
petre, and then thoroughly dried,) fix them in the moulds, and 
pf>ur m the melted liquid, proceeding as in tiie receipt for eoin- 
rnon mould candles. 

Candles made in this manner of the above materials, are 
hard and durabb-, ami will not run; burning also with a very 



clear liLiht. 



15 



* 



170 



1 H E II O L i^ i: 15 K. 



DIP (VANDLKS.. — Thrs*' niay he niaiie of the tVesh s\iet 
or f'ul of either mutton or href. Melt the tallow m 1111 iron pot, 
and then strain it irtto vi drep pan or eroek. ('ut the wicks 
into single len<rtiis, tyin^ tiic upper end of eaeh over a stick, 
or strontr slniiirht rod. Then dip them all to^njther repeatedly 
into the pan of hot tallow, lettinfr tiiem coo] awhile hetween 
each dipping. More and more tallow will stick to them every 
time. You may sliape them evenly hy tillinrr an iron spoon with 
the tallow, and pourinjr jt on the candies wiierever they seem 
to want it most. When they are sufiicientiy larire and thick, 
place them out of doors tn harden. Hy ke<'j)in(r them out all 
night in cold weather, they will hecome white hy freezing. 



Rl'SH LKifrrS,— Rush lirrhts are much better tlian small 
dip candles, and in country places where the rushes (rrow% the 
expense of nrakinrr them is almf>st notliinj^r. 

When the mea'iow rnshf-s have attained their full substance, 
but ;ire still nreen, cnl them and !)rin'j them home 'JVim oil' 
h.>th tiids of the rush, ;ui>i leave tie' nrim«' part, whieh :>hf,uld 
he about a foot and. a half Inner. Then take off all the <rreon 
skin that surrounds the pith, leavincr only about one-hlth m a 
{lerpendicular stri[) rimnitoj^ all the way up frons bottom to top 
of the rush; this strip is to Indd tlu; pith tr»<rfther all the way 
alontr. 

Have ready some meltod tallow, and pour it li(]uid in'oj a 
tail crock, or somrthin<r as hit^rl, as the lentrth (d" the rushes. 
7'hen stand up thr- rushes i-i the !_rroasr, and let them soak in it 
thorouo-hly. Afterwards carry tlu- crock into the yard, take 
out ?he rushes, and stand them up to coo] arrainst the wall or 

ro'lllft '1 1 1 r(rf> + r-/wi If ..11 ..- , J t i' .1 -. ■ ) I 1 .1 

- '■"^' "■'. >' .iin>v><ti lu irir/,f, iiicy Will oe iiie 

whiter. 

Hush candles ((ive a clear and [>1easant liirtit for a. sick room. 



171 



F U \i N I r U R E, &c. 



\\ ALLS.— \\ h( ji the inside walls of a new house are to ho 
paiiitcd, liie plaste.riii<4 is hard-linislu d, as Jt is called, to pre- 
pare tilt Hi fi.^r it ; but the ])aint should not he put on for a year 
at hast, (it uould h( hrtlcr slill to wail two years,) as before 
that time the plasterisu:r will not l)e in a state to receive it pro- 
perly. Paintiu;; the walls of rooms has now become very 
customary m new houses, and thoiifrh more (X pensive at lirst, 
has advantai^es over j)aperin<r tiiat have brought it greatly into 
use; beinjr more durubie, more easily (deane<i when soiled, not 
loosenino- with the damp, and slmwintr th(^ furniture to greater 
advantan-f ; {'-ririi'-uKirl y the cnrt-.uns, miTMrs, and jwctur. s. 
The ceiliiio-, ot Course, sliouh! he v\h!tr : ollier\\!sc \\ ivilj i,)ok 
low and ulof.my, unles^ m a very spieiidid ;ipartment, w here 
it has been finely painted by an artist. With such a <'(-il!n<]f, 
it IS usual to have the walls n{' the room painted in compart- 
ments, by th':> same hand. \\C have se(ii walls that ucrt; 
piiiuttd \n mi!!ate ha-, n jieis (.f \\hilr ma.rhle ; the ceiliosjs 
correspondiuix, and made to I'M.k as if omA or vauiod. 
Notbino- can be in worse taste, than a painted ceiliuir v\iih a 
jcapered wall, however e\[)ensive and elei_ratit the pa.per. 

V\)i colour ol llie walls should, (ai no acoMimi, resemhl' lluit 

(d the furniture, hut siiould rather present a deci(h(l e-'Ulrast. 

lo (five a no'ixl (lit ct to a room, there sh.aihl, as in a juciure, 

be a prnp( r and harmonious dislnbiiUou (A' liidil and dark tints 

throunhoul all the ohjecls ; evt ry one a.■>^,i^tiiig to l)no*r ( ach 






172 



T Tf K f{ () V S K HOO K. 



other out. If iIxtc is riDthino- in t!ir room rillu r very Jark or 
vfry lifrht, the aspcrt of the w iiolr will Ix^ indi.stiti.-l aii.l rou- 
fuscd. ir (lie rdrnitiin^ is as linljt-oolonn d as tiic wails, tju; 
vvholf will look wrak and !nsij)id. If h(jtii walls and furnitiin; 
arc dark, the elTtct will he heavy and gloomy; and the rooms 
will liaht very badly at ninht. 

If you have fine pictures, (oil-paintinn^s,) they will be worth 

takintj every means of shrtwin^r to advantajre. Therefore, as 

brisdit <'oiours around thcin would ov<Tpower th(dr tints, let 

tlie walls he one uniform shade f)f a (piict and sober colour, 

somtthinfr like pale ^rray, or stone colour, or pale olive; !)ut 

on lu, account any thiier of a blue, red, oreen, or yellow tin^o. 

On each side of all the principal pictures it is well to place ii 

{)rack(^t su})portinir -a hmip ; thus doinr^ justice to the work of 

ttie artist, and assistuii^r at the bume time; to litrht the room. 

\\ here there ;\re no pictures, or only enrrravinfrs, the walls may 

be paiiited '.A a /v r// jia/r pirdv or hinssom colour, an extremely 

deiicat.- liuiit ^rr,.,.,! ,.r blue, ur <.f any bufT or ycHowish tint 

lliat will not interffn u !th the nrild,i!<r (,f ih, miiror frames, S^c, 

Getierally. howev-T, tiie safest cobair to set otf the furniture is 

one of t!ie various tints of uray, mcludinir Ijcrht stone-colour 

and dove-colour. The curtains, \c., should always be darker 

than the walls; otherwise the elf.rt will !„• dull and insipid, 

for want of contrast. 

Liffiit blue looks eKtr.-inely well for an entry and stair-case. 

In choosinrr wail-paper, av..i<l that which has a variety of 
colours or a larLr,- sh-nvy fiunir.-, as with such a ()apef no fiirni- 
ture whatevei ran appear t- its b. st advantaire. Tln^ wall, 
whether painted ^r pap. red, should nevor be s(, conspuMi.a.s as 
to intorf re witj, tbo ol.jrcts oi' which it f .rms the i'a.d^L^^round. 
The most ta^t< ful p ip^ r.., and tl,osr wbirh best set oil" the jjilt 
frajnes, lamps, ^... are thos.' uh(se simple and unobtrusive 



i r RN 1 11 a i;, i: ic. 



173 



H^ure is formed by dilferi nt tints (d' the same colour, as shaded 
«rravs, kr. All wall-paj.ers should be verv li<j^ht. For a hor- 
derinir round the top, let the predominant colour correspond 
with that of tlie ciirtains. A deej) rich bordering gives a very 
handsome fmisli to n papered wall. 

i/ar(j;e fiLTunMl prsperin-r mak' - a small room look still snvaller. 
Ii is now much out ol" use 



(WRlM-rrS, '('be carp.ot> ino^^t xi'^i't] \\\ America are the 

Jbaxony, Tournay, and lirussel-;. tor the best a})artments of 
liandsf.molv furnished honses. Interior to these are the Wilton, 
the imperial, Kidderminster or he/rain, Venetian, and Scotch; 
whicli last is the lowest in jirico, and worst in quality. 'I'urkey 
carpets are now verv rare. 'I'hey '.ire' made stpiare, all in one 
]nece, and are (^xtrenu ly tbi(d^. h.avy, and durable; hut their 
colours and patterns have no beauty, and they accumulate 
much dust, and are so cund)roe,s as to b.^ extremely difhcalt 

to shake. 

Wilton carpits. iboii'jb biokmir very handsomely win ii (juite 
Tievv. are less durable tlian any others; the surface, nr.t with- 
standimj its ri<di ;ind velvi't-like appearance, wearinii; o!T almost 
immediately; everv sweepiri'X brini^nnu away a j)f)rtiori ol the 
wool. Persons who havo had no expicrience (.f tliem can 
scarcrlv btdieve m how .-borl a time a Wilton carpet or hearth- 
r\[iT !)ecomes thread-bare. 

Venetian or striped carpet< are rarfdy used, except lor stairs 
and pas.,;o.res. Th. v (as well as Imporial aiid imjrain carpets) 
are ma.de to be put (b'wn witli either side r)utwards. 

In huvmix '1 «'ar|>et, as m ev( rv ^ln:;;! elst;, those of best .-pia- 
litv are (dieapest in tiu' end. As it i^ eTtreuudv desirabb- that 
tie V shonbl look (dean as jorer a-, po-~sd)!e. avoid huymj/ a 
carpet that has any white m it. Kven a very small portion of 



174 



THE [IOl?E P.OOK. 



wlute interspersed throucr}, the puttern, will in a short time 
^ive a dirty appearance to tlu^ whole; and certainly no carpet 
can he worse for use than one with a while ,-nm;i^/. A carj)et 
HI which all the colours are li^ht, never has a dean, hriirht 
eilect, from tlie want of dark tints to contrast and set oil' the 
light ones. F(,r a similar reason, cari)ets whose colours are 
all of what artists call middle tint, (neither dark nor li^ht,) 
cannot tail to hu.k dull and din<ry,,.ven wh.n quite nrw. Vhe 
caprices of fashion at times hrin<r tlicse ili-colourrd carpets into 
vogue; hut m apartments where elegance is d(-siralde, they 
alwajs have a bad ellcct. For a carpet to be really beautiful 
and in good taste, there should be, as m a picture, a judicious 
disposal of ii^ht and shadow, with a gradation r>f v^ry bri-ht 
nnd of very dark tints; some a/most white, and others almost 
or quite black. Tin- mest truly chaste, rich, and elegant car- 
pets are ihosr wher. the pattern is lornie.l by one colour only, 
but arranged m every van, ty of shade. For instance, we have 
seen a Brussels c;,rp, t rutin !y rrd ; the pattern f .rm- d by 
shades or tints varyu.n- tr,.Mi ibc deepest .-rimson (ajuiost a 
^>Iack) to the pahsi pmL almost a whito. Also, one of ^U'vn 
only, shaded from tl... darkc st botllc-crr.en, in some parL of 
the hgure, to the lightest pea-green m ntluTs. Another, in 
^^hich thore was no colour but brown m all ,is various urada- 
t.ons, some of the shades being nearly black, others of i U^la 
I'uff. All these carpets had much tbo look of nrh vnt velv^et 
The curtams, sof.s, <^c., of course, wen- of corresponding 
colours, and the effect of tbo whole was noblo au.l elegant. 

Carpets that present a great variety of dilforent and Jinidy co- 
lours, are much less in deman.l than formerly. Two colours on! V, 
with the dark and l.^ht shades of ea.-h, u,ll n.ake a very band' 
«om« can)et. A tv ,ry /../o' (,!„, ..,.„„„i, ,,,,,^ ^,,^^ ^^^^^^^ ^ ,. 
shaded crimson or purple, lo(,ks .xtremoiy u,!!; ,S .1,^,,, ^ 



FTTRNITFRE, ETC. 



175 



salmon-colour or buff ground, with a deep green figure; or a 
light yellow ground, with a shaded blue or purple figure. If 
you cannot obtain a hearth-rug that exactly corresponds with 
the carpet, get one entirtdy different; for a decided contrast 
looks better than a bad match. \V(^ have seen very liand- 
soine hearth-rugs with a rich, black, velvet-looking around, 
and the fiufure of shaded blue, or of various tints of yeiiou and 



orange. 



No car{)et decidedly ligbt-colourid throu(j!iout, has a i^ood 
effect on the floor, or continues lon^ to look clean. 

To j)reserve expensive carpets, it is well to completely cover 
the fl(»f;r hinicath them with drugget, or with coarse matting, 
which is a mueli Ixttcr plan than to sp>read a layer of straw 
between the ihior and the carpi t ; the straw (besides the diffi- 
culty of" spreading it perfectly smooth and rven) accunmlating 
much dust, that works up through the carj)et. In buying a 
carpet, (having first measur<'d the room, and calculated the 
exact quantity with the utiriost nccurncv,) it is well tn (jet an 
additiitnat vard or two to lav aside, that vn ma> liavr u roady 
111 case of' transferring the carpet to a lartrer ajtarlmcnt, or for 
th»' purpose of repairing any part that may t)e worn out or acei- 
dentaily burnt. 

In httinc a carpet round tho hearth, (unless there is border- 
ing,) do not cut the piece entirely out. !)ut slit ll dov\n at each 
side, and havinnf herrin(r-b(*ned the ed<'(s to itrevtMit their ravel- 
ling, turn the fla]>s or biij)s inwarrls, underneath the carpet. 
Or yf)U may turn it over, and taek it down, sn as to t.e outsidttj 
of the carpet, and under the bearth-ru^. In making the carpet, 
the selvau-e edtres must be held totrether fthc liiMire tracfly 
luatehing) so as bandy to meet, but not to lie f)ver each other. 
It should be sewed on tlie \v ren<' sid', with the strorer eolour(Hl 
thread that is made for the purpose; taking up both edges at 



176 



\ 



the «;im(^ tir.i.,1)ut not so ns to f..rin a ridnr-. Kadi stitch m^ist 
he takrn hrfiind or at tho hack of tho last; passin<r flic n(^«-(ih3 
iKU-k wards ;Mi(i fnrwar.ls, so as to point it ahornatoiy, first fn>ru 
V'Mir chrst. -.Hifi lh..ii A;,/Y/r./v it; and taking- caiv not to hold 
ono sido ..I'tho sdvan-o h.wrr than the <,th.r, and not to drnw 
your thn-ad /nu tinhtly. If jirf-prrly ^\nuv, th< soams vvij! tread 
•inwn port;>clly lUu !fy.ui (in.i, as you prorrrd, !)n,t yon havo 
I'nckfnd iMivpan of ihf scam, ]^uk it rail, and do ii hotter; as 
tlx' >!!:i!iiost mcorrrotrioss in matidiinu- the pattorn wi!! disii:/u!o 
iho u !im!o r,;r|)(i. 

AN Urn t!ir s.ains are coinph ted, hind tlio rdo-r a!! ro-md with 
rt'iridar carpn-hindin'r. 

A carp. t-f,rk (to ho ohijiinr,] at thr ha.nhvaro stores) is an 
<>rti(do of ahuost indisp,.nsah!<' caiv. nionco f,r pnttinir ,h,u-n 
<-:irp'ls. It IS !o ho stuck hv a strono- liand into t!ic < xtr.Mniiics 
"1' tf)c .-arp.'t. aftor U is hud i,n the lhM>r. so as to stretch it to 
""■ ^'^'''''^^ '"!(! make it fit tightly an.! f v.niv ali ovor ; uhi'o 
aniither n* r^on j.ui!> it strai^rht and x-noMth-: i). '['].. f,irk-i;ai!s 
'""^^ ""' '" '"" ^"-di, or ti,.y vvili j;u! m -eounm^ ti,- ear|u r 
'""''•^■' '' '^ ^^''*'' '" ^'-''V'' ready a siillicK nt nmnher of !,tth> 
hits of s(di huckskin or kni loather,to slick on caeh ta(d<. <d..s,. 
'^'"'•■'' '''"'"'"'' ^^'"'1' inay.ahorwi.e tray or iniure the rarpet. 
An extra l)readth. ta<dved ,h,vvn m |V,,nl of llu; SMJa, will 
a^.ist nreativ m savinir that part of the earpet from vvearin,r 
r^^^t : and hv takm^r .-ao. to n,at,di tl,e heure exa<-tly, it ran he 
so li\( d a> to eseap,. notice. 

Ill an catin;^r-room, the carpet slionhl !>.• prof, cird frMm crniid)s 
and !Tre.asr.-,!roppinn-s hy a hir-- uo..!hai .dMih k- pt f^r ihn 
purpose, and sproad nmhT the tahh- and the ,diairs thai surroand 
1? ; this tdolh to he tak. n up after every rnea], rind -shaken oni. 

of doors; or <.]se swept otf earefilMv as it lirs. !t uiHaKo 

r-quirc oc.-HRu.nal washing. A cruinh-ch>th may be ui' drugget, 



< « 



FURNITIRE, ETC. 



177 



finished round the edge with carpet-binding; of thick green 
baize; or very strong, stout brown lin(;n. 

Have always a regular tack-box, for the purpose of contain- 
ing new tacks, and r<'C( iving tbost; that come out of the carpets 
when they are- taken up. Your hammer should of course have 
a claw or cleft for g-ettintr out nails. Take care to leavt^ no 
loose tacks lying about the floor; as, if accidentally trodden 
on, they may cause great ijsjury to the toot. 

In puttino- aw,'. V carpt ts f ^r the summer, after they have been 
well shaken and tieat«'n, I'old them u{', and lay amon<r the folds 
a large quantity of shreds of ted)acco, interspersed with bits of 
camphor. \\'rap[)ing them up cdos(dy in linen sheets or table- 
cloths, will prove an additional sfcnrity against the niotlis. 
'f'he linen should \n- })inned or s(vved tightly round them. 

To prevent the back of a sofa or a ])iano from rubi>ing agaijist 
the wall, and defacing it with marks, prepar«^ two narrow slats 
of heavy wood, aheait ;i fujt lf>nc-, and in thickness and breadth 
thrtii"' or fo!ir inches, ('over them wiih ca^'petinir (A the same 
as that on the lhH,r, and set tin ni hetween the wash-h(iard and 
the ha(dv feet (d" the sola, which will thus be imp-ercei)tibly 
kcjtt otf from the wall. 

A h'.rge, heavy, square f )Ot-cushion (d cfiarse lini'ii, stnifed 
h;ird and tlrinly uitli hair, or witli n})iiolstercrs'' moss, and 
c()V(^red vv ith carpetinu;, is a very usual and e\c( llent accompa- 
niment to a rocking-(diair. These cushicuis must be m;ide so 
compact and substantial, tlr.it they cannot be moved urdess 
intentionally. !f lic;htly and loosely stutled, (as you will 
^■enfTallv fitjd those that are otfered (or sale rt ady-made,) they 
will b«' continually shf)ving from j.nder your leet, and kicking 
about the room. It is W(dl always toi bespeak them yoiirselt, 
and have them made to order. Tlnre is no foot-stooi so coni- 
fortahle <\nd conv( nient as thes(^ heavy carpet-cushions, parti- 






178 



r ii 2-: 11 I ,- 1. nou k, 



cularlv f'T (•ir.imlx.rs, siitin 



ll-rnonis, ;uu: 



i lib 



rant's. In haiul- 



Suiiiclv lurni.'-'lH'd oarinurs or drawinf 



-rooms, ttui toot-stools aro 



iiic iMatcrial a. 



frr-ncrailv of iiiali(»trany, and ('..vcrcd with the s. 
i«' solas, (S.C. ; but ihcy shuuKi always hv, licavy, 



i! 



Si.) as 



not 



ras 



ilv t 



o ovcrsrt, 



A larnc bri<'l<, covorcil vvitli a pioc(^ of carpc.tinfr stnv< d 



siiufotlily all over it, is a simp!*- but norui contrivance tor i)l 
i'i^" anaiiisl Uic door to kufp it open when ns^ccssary. 



a*' 



Hi:i)-k()()M (Ain'in'^.—'n 



\t' oarprt on a chanibor w i,! 



last and b)ok \vt II much longer it" tl 



icrc arc extra {)icccs io biy 



round the bed, takinif Uicin up and shakinrr t} 
In trout ot'thc washinir-staiul, and 



icin every dav 



sornf* distance !)eneatli. ii i- 



well to liave a breadth of oil-cloth nailed d 



)wn nj)on the ca 



r;'» 



which will thn 
• f wat 



s itc sav 



("d t>orn nnicli injury by the splasbiti 



ir 



ol water m enijtlynii: pitcln-rs and basins. 
Thr custom of carpotinir chanilirrN a! ! over in 



'^nuiiVH r. 



verv fcticral 



in A 



nicrican bouses, is n(;f a "-, 



KM! OFIC 



ll 



:|i ,!li 



^'■t■l^s 



I't add to the boat (»f tl 



H- rof)in, is very uneoni{'i,'rtai)le to tbo teet 



when (he shoes and stockin 



L{s are olf", and causes a 



n accuiuul.t 



tion of dust winch seldom fails to ])roduce ins(>cts, and i> m 



ev« 



TV resport a jrrcat sacrifiof^ of conveiuerue to si 



lOU' 



A 



so. 



the carjx't r,f course wili not last half as lonir it^ 



! I 



m use all }!i.> 



year. In Knufland, thou"h tl 



n' sunnners are niucli (•(♦oicr llroi 



our'^, the chamber lloors, when not 

cloth, have in th 



covtTcd w ith nuittiii'/ ,,r , i 



e warm season no other 



arpt ts than fliree 



small onos that surround tlo- bod. and 



are reinovod ovory ne»!n- 



Uvr betore thr bod Is nnidc. 'j'beso bed-sid 
^ets. aro tro(|uentlv very "]e"-;u)t, jm,! 



e c 



irpofs coj-no in 



;ire marnibiciured ov 



MO 



f<<r th 



• • jMirpose, oacli havne.-- a bMrdcr and niiddb-( 



l<Mire 



\\ 



could wisli thoy were uni versa!! 



y iiilrodueed into Am-'r-icn, 






FURNiTURt:, j:tc 



179 



nothiiu>' bein<v more easy to svv( ei) and wash than tlu^ boarci 
lloor, from winch they can \n' removi d in a minute. 

In families that are unwillin«r to vro to the exiunse of mattinfr 
for their chambers in summer, w(! r»H'ommend that the carjiet 
bhall nevertheless be taken up and put away betore the warm 
st^ason cominene«^s: substitutir."- for tln^ above-mentioned reou- 
l.u- bed-side carpets, three jiuces (d' car})etinjr linisln-d with 
worried bmdinu. 



S'rAl]l..('AHPi"rS.--I{aviiiLr the stairs pa.inted white (a 
custom now oreatiy in us( ) will save mu(di trouble in scrub- 
liino; ibem. When painted, all tln-y re<[uire is to bo w.tshod 
down occasionally with a tlaimel -.uid cold water. The white 
j'aint on ea(di side adds nnndi to the (dfect (>t' a handsome 
eobiure 1 stair-carpet. Oljservm'j; tla^ jiains that are taken by 
many j)ersons to prevent their wearintr out, (aie miobt sup})ose 
tiiat a stair-carpet was of ail ;irti(des of turniture tlie most cost! v. 



S 



oine nre oe*nrdi d by a covorlntr r,\ brown linen, w liieb alui'-st 



imnu'drateiy becomes s(>iled,aud atter washing- bi.dvs (it oniy to 
be cut up into kitchon towels, Oilnrs are c(jvere(i all the way 
up the middle with a strij) (d' druo-o-ot, (which is rather bettfr;) 
and others are disfitrurr-d by slips of oil-(dotb naih d alonj^' tliti 
iedo-t? of every stop. AU recours(> to tin se unsinfitly nnthi 



Mis 



tdsavinjr a sta.ir-carpet may iw, avon 



ilrd, \ 



)y simply purchasing- 



at the beoimnmr a yard and a tn\lf or two yards more of the 
carj)otin'j- tlran is -ictually reipiircd by the measure of ynir 



ird !)(3 



stairs. In puttnuj dijwn the carpet, lot tiii- additional y 
tolded smoothly under, » itluT at the lu'ad or the toot ()( the. 
stairs, or j)artiv at botli. Whenever the stair-carpet is taken 
up to be shaki'u an<l beaten, (whndi ouirht to be at least once 
a fortnijrht, as the dust accumulatinfr underneath irrinds and 
wears it out,) the position td' tlio extra (juantity at the end 




180 



I HE no I si: ROOK 



FURMTURE, KTC. 



Bhould be charifred. IJy this incans, the same part of the car- 
peting will not he all tiie time wearinrr against tlie stairs; and 
what was last upon the ledge, will be now against the tlat jKtrt. 
We /mow that by this <*;isy phm of buyintr at the beirinnimr 
a small extra <jiianfity, a inxnl stair-carj)et has been made to 
last ten years, without looking m the least amiss, and without 
the expense, trouble, and disligurement of any eovering or 
guard whatever. 

For a h.ng or h.fty stairease, it is best to get two additional 
yards ot the carpelina. 

Afi entry or hal! rar]).. t will last much longer, for liavim/ a 
large mat at every doijr that opens into it. 

Immediately within the street door, the vestibule (if not of 
marble) should be covered v\ ith oil-e!oth. Also, oihejotii at the 
baek door, and at the head of the kitchen stairn. 

A stair-carpet sh.ould never be swept down with a hnio- broom, 
but always with a short-handlrd hrnsfi, and a tin dust pun iield 
closely under each siep of the stairs as you proceed, sweeping 
earelully tbe corrurs and i)eiw<M'n the bannisters, whieli siKnild 
afterwards bf; wi])ed and rublMd with a cloth. If ihey are 
mahogany, they should occasionally be cleaned and polished 
in the same inaniKT as mahogany furniture. 

Alter a stair-carpet is taken up to lie beaten and shaken, the 
staircase should be swept very clean, preparatory to scrubbin«r : 
unless it is painted, and tlnn, as before mentioned, it need only 
be washed dov\ n. 



I SW KKV CAliFKTS. — IVcvkmis to swf^eping a carpet, 
pick up whatever shrt-ds or clippings may be lying abrjut, as it 
will be found easier to remove them at once, than to be pushing 
them from place to place, all over the room, while you are 
sweeping it. ^'he-n spnidde the ca/pet witii s,,ir,e danij. l.-a- 



IHl 



leaves, which should always he saved for that purpose, by 
putting tht rn into a jar, as soon as the tea-j)ot is emptied. The 
tea~lt'aves absorb the dust, and r>ause the carpet to look ch-aner 
and brigliter. 'I'hen go (,ver the carpet with a corn broom 
briskly an<i lightly; for hard heavy sweeping, will wear olT 
the surlace of the wool. Having first swept one Iralf, remov(; 
all tiie chairs, kc, to that part of the room, and then go ove/ 
the remainder; carefully sweeping under th.^ softs and other 
fixtures. When you have r(>arhed the door that opens into tht> 
entry, havo ready there, a tin dust-j.an with a short-handled 
brush ; collect in it all the swcppings of the carpet, and carry 
tiuMu away at once, to Ix^ thrown into the dust-hole. 

Drawing-room carpets of the finest and most costly descrip- 
tion, should be svv-ept with a hair l)room. For a very rich car- 
pet on ;i small apartment, a clean hearth-brush may be used. 



HFATIMi A CAKPI-I'.-Whenararpet is taken up to 

be beaten. let it be ciorieii out bv two men itilo a lar.-P r^ueii 
place, (a gre'en, for instaine,) and w. Ij shaken. Then suspend 
it, wrong side out, on a stout line betwe* n two trees; or spread 
it over a fence. It sliouhl then be h(>aten verv hard, by two or 
tniir men, (according to its size,) each jierson having a pliable 
stick or rattan, the end bemtr strongly tied round with cloth so 
as to form a sort of knob, which, by blunting ttie sharpness nf 
the blows, will prevent the carpet from being frayed, and the 
scams froiii splitting. After it has been well beaten on llie 
wrong side, let it rest a while, till all the dust hiis blown away ; 
and then turn it on the ri^rht side, and ^nv,; if ;, thomunh beat- 
mg. When no more dust issues fr-Mii it, lav tiic carpet on the 
grc( n, toid It conveniently, and carry it b;>.ek to the house. 

Before It is hud down again, examine it aii over, and darn 
or mend any parts that may need it; ubing f,,r the purpose, 

10 





9 



I 



» i 



»> 



I 



182 



THE UOUHE BOOK. 



carpot-yani of tho respective colours that compose the fi^rurc; 
u nctdlc-rull of each as it may he required. Also, if any of 
i\n' himiiiifr is loose, see to repair it. 

V\ hile the carpet ib jrettmnr heaten, the floor of the room 
shouhl he swept and scruldjcd. ^ ^ 

A carpet in c<Hisiant use will rerpiire heatiii<r four times, if 
('own the wh(de yoar. 

A hall-uiirn carpet may he riiad*' to last lunjjier. hy rij)pin<r it 
apart, ar)d Ira.nsposin^ the lireadths ; so as to mak<^ those ttrat 
h".k thin and threadhare, eo to tiiat p.irt of the room whert- tiicy 
u ill he hast ohserved. Or ijie hest part may h»' taken out, an«i 
ni:u\t: into a (*ar{)et tor a smaller room. 



TO WASH A CAIMMOT.—llavinjT f,rst remove.! the 
orease-spois, hy the repeated application of Wilminirton (day, 
scra[)ed to a powder, and made into a paste with a little water, 
and havintr taken out the staiiis witli liartshorn diluted with 
Witter, t.ike up tlte carpet, (saving- all the tacks, hv puttinn; th<'m 
into a hox,) and have it carried to an open place, to he well 
shaken and heaten thf.rontrhly with rattans, so as to <roi out 
the dust. Then let the floor of the room he swept and scruhhed. 
\\ hen the tloor is dry, hrinnr hack the carpet, and nail it d..wn 
ai^am, stretchinir it w(dl u ith a car})et-fork. Afterwards, let it he 
well scruhlx'd all over, a little at a time, with a lon^r scruhhimr 
hrush, soap, and cold water in which has heen mixed a tea- 
cup full or more of ox-L^^all, to j)reserve the colours. Then 
wash oil' the suds with ))lain cold water, and finish with a dry- 
ii'.LT <dotl), with which it irnist he madt; as dry as pf.ssihle. 
Aiterwards, raise the window sashes, lock the door, and do 
not h't the room he used til! the carpet is (juite dry. 

An insrrain, imp«'rial, or JJru^sels carpet washed m this man- 
iH'r, will look very much likf; a new one. A Wilton carpet, 



FURMTLRi:, KTC. 



183 



or any one in which the pile or wool is chiefly on the surface, 
caimot be scruhlxMl, or it will rnh otT, leavin<r the texture 
thread-han". 

Tliose parts of the carp* t that are most soih d may l»e at any 
time scruhhed with a small hand-hrush, wlieii it is not coiisi- 
d( red nec; ssary to unde;tak(; a general washin;^ of the wh(d» ; 
always adding a little trail to the water to preserve the colours. 



()IL-(M,()Tns ()!{ i>AI\T!:i) (\\1UM:TS,— I,, huvirur 
ail oil-cloth for a lloor, (and there is nothiro'; so ijroo<| f,»r the 
hall or vestihule of a house,) en<lo;ivour to ohtain one that was 
rnaiHifacturt (1 sf'veral years helr-re ; as the lono«'r it has heen 
niade previous to use, the hf tUr it will wear, from th'^ paint 
hecomio'i liard and durahle. We have seen an F^ntjiish oil- 
cloth that, not havincr h(M'n put down till five years after it was 
imported, hsoked fresh and new, thouijh it had heen ten years 
in constant use on an entiy (l(K)r. An oil-tdoth thai has lirrn 
made within the vear is -crirct ly v\-.)rth hn\ ano, ,!s the [»aitii 
\\\\\ he (hfaced m a vta'-y little time, it roqutiiinr a Iout v^hlle 
to season. 

An oil-(doth should ntwa^r I"' scruhhed with a hrusli ; loit, 
aft' r heunjr first swej^t, it should Ix' (deasitMi hy washing; with 
a lartre soit (doth and lukewarm or (a'hl walor. ()n no nccotint 
u^o soap, or take watt^r that is //-//,• as eithor (A' tin in v\i!] ci r- 
taitiiyhrin*! offthe- paint. When it has dried, you may spon^<; 
il ovrrwith milk, whi(di will hriyhten and juostTve the cohairs; 
and then wine it with a soft dry (doth. 

For a kiodien lloor that is n*.! paint( d, ihi r/ is n^ hotor 
C()\erin(r than a coars(\ ^toist, j>Iain fdl-ciotli, uiifioar! d, or all 
(d "oe cohnir; for instance, d;irk rod, hhie, hro\\n. oliva, or 
(M hr«' yellow. Th' se coinmon oi!-(doths af almost eni\( rsa! 
in the ^]llL'"li^!l Kitidions and h^ondries. 'J'hev save tli.' tro'uhle 



t 

c: 



1H4 



TIIF llniSE IKIOK. 



of scnil,l,in!r the fl.,„r, it hrln^x 'mly n. rrsstjry to wash th,.,! 
oir uiil, ;, «,,, ,|.,tl,; a,Hl as th,y a,r i„i,,,.rvinua t„ da,,,,,, „r 
to ,-„l,l (V,„„ „,„„ ,.r,„-Ks hHvvrr,, ||„. |,„.,nls, th.y ,„akr tho 
'''"■l»'» ;'^ 'Iry a,,.! «arr„ as it ,-.,„hl I,,- rrtHierci l,y a wooll,,,, 
'■i.ri.n ; au.l ihry have the advantage of colhrtin^r a„,l ntaiiunir 
1... dusl „r trnas,.. it is .sarprisittj; tliat thos,. comnton o.l-rh.lhs 
liavf r,„l bet, i„„r.. »,„,.rally j„tr„,lu.'. ,1 i„to Aim-rican kitdu as. 



NTKAW MATTIX(;._I„ h„y,t,. matting for a s„„„„..r 
cnv.-rinrr ,„ ,l„ h,,,,^, „j- ,„„^ |,^,^^ t,,,a,„,„.„ts, ,io ,„,,, ^., that 
« hl.-h IS rhrrk.r,.,! or (i^r„n.d with two cohMirs. Th,; rilrrt is 
n.vor ^rood, aad it .ivs a ,-o,„„io„ a„d „„.,,,t,rl ajipoarattro 
t" .ho rooms. If li.n.rod ,„atti,>ur is „s,.,l at all, it shoahl o„lv 
1- n, U,o ,„f,.rior parts of tho hoaso. Tl,i„, h,w-|,r,ood ,aatl,„o- 

'" ^''"' '"■ ^'^-'''-i"''. -'"■'"- tr, stroaks. a„d woars out so 

^.".ntha, ,iw,llholou„di„,hoo„d„,on.oxpo„sivo,hat, that 

""'"'"'"l"^''"^- f"'i"t,M,r„, door, do fot allow ttl., 

■'"■■■""■'"".^'■yparloiihohoanh; as ,l,a, v.,:| ..o.-hoio U:.- 
conv. ,0,,,..,. of vo„r havi.or „ u„, ,,,„„i,i „„, ^^.,,^_.;,^^ ^^^^ ^^_^_ ,^_ 

PCO'odl^ o.id a!„ r t!a. ,oa,„„. ,s p.H down, or holorott ts takou 
"Pl'Tthos.aso„. li. .he,Middh.an.loas,or,.soolio„sof \,„o- 
""' " '^ '"■^•' ""' '■' I"" 'I""" <!"■ '->,„„,., and arraa.ro ,ho 
r-:»si„rsa„u„,,, i.of„ro tho talddio .dM„„o; aod ,t sho„|d 

'" "''•""l'^""'"1'l'"-"l»iththocarpotsholorotho„„ddh.ol^ 
.Septoao.or; rortainly i>rovio„s to ,!„. oohl rams whirl, uo 
"l»avsoxpoo,.!,o,„thalsoason. |,y„„ have oooasioiMor u 
'MO wlulo iho niattlao ,s sull down, lay tho rao I,,,,:,,,, ,|„ 

I' 
■'^tno.v n,a.tin,r .hoohl I,., washod hn, soldo.n. .s inuoh datnp. 

""'"^ M-.^Ost. ,,. \Vho„n,:,,ar,:ssa,v,loovovor,loolo:o, 

^"'-^"-•'l""i'.v":^sh,nr.wi,halaroo,.oars..oloU, dippod 
'""'''•""'"•"'■^- ■""'^'-r-l'.— l,uii,„.gn dry « tilt au- 



rrRNITT Ri;, F. TO. 



185 



other ronrsr cloth. The Rait will prcvnt the mattiii<r trom 
turniniT y(*l!ow. 

li; in pultino down a lloor mat, you havr oorasion to join it 
across, rav(-! ahout an incli at the end of each hn adth, and lie 
or knot tire len^rthway threads two too-etiier. Then, liirnin.r 
al! these knotted threads underneath, lay one c-iliri^, over tiie 
other of the pieces to he joined, and tack them down to the 
iloor with a row of very small tacks; each tack havinir a little 
hit otMmckskinon it, to prevent the head of the nail tVom iiijur- 
iiiO(,r w.'arinir out the mat. 'I'his ravellinir tho ends of the 
hreadths, and knottmo-and turnin<r under ih.'ii' threads, oiiviates 
the inconvenience of a thick conspicuous ridjre if the vd^re. 
of the mattiiif^- is f)lded under in iis full substance. 

A\ orsted hindinir is n-enerally us»(i for mattiinr; hut as thi«^ 
is sometinu s destroyed hy moths, it is sah r to secure the edirn 
of the mat with the suiliciently durable hindimr of coloured 
linen or thick cotton Inroad ta])i', t,(j be had of all colours at the 
carpet btures. 

Straw niattinn- is not advisrihl.- f.r a stwir-cp.^e. It xr.-irs 
out very soon an-ainst the hdnes of th.e stejts, and is, besi,]rs, 
too slii)pery to he safe for those that (j-o up and down, ])articii- 
larly if they have to carry articles tliat may be broken. Oil- 
cloth is also too slippery. 

For a stair-case there is no better coverin(.r (at all s(>ason-^) 
than a o-ood carpet. If the principal stair-<Mse lias been paint* ,1 
all over whit(>, and the others dark irray, no coverincr will bo 
n«"ed«!d in the smnmer seas(m, at which linn it is jxpected that 
all the furnitiir(^ then in use shall be as ii(rjit and as liitio 
inconvenient as p(>ssible. 



I) 
.1 *» 



UAH CARPETS.— -Thou rrh we hitrhly disapprove r,f put- 
tintr rag carppts on kitchen floors, m consequence of the dirt 



186 



THE IIOrSE BOOK. 



rrRNITUUE, ETC. 



187 



aii.I <rn-ase with wi.ich tlioy soon hccoiiw. saturaf-'d, thry may 
hv a(lvar)tH^(>o,islyns.(l ii, nn in.mj,;T-nH,n. ; a sprvants^ sitting. 
room; as hcl-si.ic caq^ets Iwr (IomlsDch ; or lor oifirr purpos.s 
i" li>ini!H s whoro luuvh rronmny is necessary. Thov are ina.ie 
or old vloVu; lor msiaiKV, of ernUs, |.ant,a!or.„s, kr., that can 
no Inn-.T I.e \^oril. ATfr it has heen well brushed and beaten, 
^']' ^li'- <-Iotb aj.arf, and with very larjre scissors ci.t it iiito 
^!r,ni./bt, ev.n .trl|.^, a!>out two inches wide, hiyino- them m a 
i^i^ket as y,,u pr-ceed. 'Idi. n VMih coar.e, strcmjr, bn-wn 
thn ad seu ioo.ih* r the ends of all tin- strips, an.l wind them 
liilo lar-e balls. \ ,:,u may ad.i strij.s of ,dd carpetUKr, crnrn 
baize, or r( d liama 1. When you have ccdlected a sulii.m nt 
'j'-'nt!ly, s, lui th. m to the w( aver and hav.' them woven into a 
<''UiMt, uhich, th.aioh certainly (ar from handsome-, will he 
ihiv k, stront^r, and d-urable. 

ii:i«^ Mi-s an sonieUmes made eiitin ly of old mirram car- 
p.nntr. 



riTT! !M:S..-dn I sioh.Mon 



i ::..-. 1 i L! ■- p t I ■ i ! I i I • i i -, 

Hf it c! .'lilv si;cji •(> aie L-Ciod. A 



smal 



i the Liu: aits, 
nd e\c( Ih nt colb ctiun 
IS of lar more intrinsic value, .nd evince, belter taste tiu.n a 
l^TL- ianub.r .f had, or even t.derable pictures, that, instead 
''■ "^'^".nniinn vour wails, an.! adding int.Trst to your ap.rl- 
in. i.e-, .,|:!y .hnT:i<h' aii.l dl>f;,jii,c them. 

'>- ""' i"ix <amrav.n.s an.l <.il-paint.n^s on the walls of the 
«anie n.,m. Drawmo. m cray.is an.l in waler-oolonrs nuiy, 
»-vv.v.r. hephuvd w.ih print.. TaL.- c;,re to ban- n,.,.- .V 
'•""'^^'"■^'--•"f" -•- r. ^ii-.e.ane,., Th.,^.. .hat are 

SnialUhould be pi., .d ,uue l.u, .n,l ,.Jna. u.iv H.t,..p.....,,i 
amonu ihc larger ones. i:.. 1, . f :|,, lar^, ., ,,a ^■,^^^, ^^j.^-^, 

^----'U!^tt,.b. I'^M'.l 1.3,. pan , .llamps, placed on biuckas, 
•r.r' :x: c-^h Side. 



'I'o prevent the necessity of drivinrr nails into the wall, it is 
now very usual, in handsome apartments, to have a brass rod 
fixed all round the eornicts pist below the ceiling; and to this 
rod, are fastened lonu ribbons, (all of ttie same colour,) to 
winch the pictures are suspended, with a handsome bow at 
each rin(r. Kven where i-here is not a brass rod, it is better to 
ban<r the p.ictures by lomr rild)ons, from brass-beaded nails or 
hooks, driven at tlie heioht of the cornice, than to have nail- 
inarks dispersed all (.ver the walls. 

I' or halls and lii)raries, maps ...n rollers are more approjtriafc 
than j)ictiires. 

lu <relti,,^r en^rravmn-s framed, sef; that the yiass is as clear as 
possible; tor a or(>eiiK-,h or reddish tinn:e will cause the j)rinl 
t ) look badly, 'idle etlect of an en^rravn!*,^ is ^rpeatly improved, 
by leavin<r round it a larjrc maroui of the white paper. 

'J\> brij^rhten the i,Hass, rub it with a bucdvskin and wiiitimj, 
made a litile .iiimj) ; .md then wipe it wiih a silk handkercdiief. 
On n.i ac.-Munt w ,:>\\ it, or the water will ir, t in beneatii, and 
St. 00 ih';^ f iii^r.i V iCi^'. 

\\ lien isn .lil-j'-aintinn; is s<dled, sm.dved, or in any u ;iy 
deficed, (also when it wants varnishiin;,) it is best to send iL 
to a re^^ular picture-.deam r ; as an iiu\p,<'rienced person may 
do It irreparable inpiry; an.l b'w of the rec(;ij)ts for those pnr- 
pi>ses ,ire to bt' depended .ai. 

It an oil picture is Ininn;- ov(^r a mant( l-pit^-e, the canva.s is 
liabl(3 to wrinkle with tln^ heal. 

'\\> keej) rb-an the (ri^lin^r of picture-frames, dust them with 
a bolt tcattirr-ijru^'h ; ..r jr., linhtly over them with a 1 .0-.. hit 
ot the inside <d wadilini^r, or of cinU'd cotton. 

\\ h( !i much soib d. the !).'st remcdv is to semi liiria to be 
j4iitanevv; as the u^ual rec.'ipts f .r ehsminrr jnlf friiines will 
i)c lound, -n trial, r itlicr mpirnum th,,,, ,,. 1,. un d. 






t , 



1 



188 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



('TRTAIXS. — Unless the chairs, sofas, ^c, are covered 
with satin-hair, the curtains shouhl, of course, always correspond 
^vith thein in colour, if not in material. Also with the carpet. 
As we have hefore o!)serve(l, the colour of the curtains sh-Mild 
contrast that of the walls, always heinfr darker and entirely 
•lillerent. With recrard to the frincre, lace, or horderinjr of the 
curtains, if the colours do not harmonize or contrast arrreeahlv, 
and accordion- ta the dictates of good taste, the eiTect will he liad, 
no in;)tt( r how rich or expensive the materials. For instance, two 
dark colours or two lisrht <mrs should not n-o totrpther. Scarlet 
curtains trimmed with hlut^ or yellow do not look well; hut hricrht 
scarlet has a crood effect witfi dark jrreen or hlack. A rich, deep 
crimson contrasts fin«dy with an extremely licrht and beautiful 
hluc; or with a n(,Idpn yellow, (^irtainsof a full blue, may he 
trimmed with hlack, dark brown, orange, or l)ri(rht yellow. Li<rht 
blue curtains look extremely v\ ,11 with j)urple trimmincrs, or with 
rich brown. Hrown curtains a.[)[)ear to advantag<> trimmed with 
ii,t:ht blueorpmk. Dark rrr^y or slnte-colour may als,, be trimmed 
\MUi v.ry pnh- pmk or blue. For ureeri curtains, li^ht lilac trim- 
inm^^ iooks well ; also rrobjen yellow. Curtains of bulf, oran<ro 
roiour, or bri<rht yellow, may b,> trimmed with purple, brown, 
black, deep crimson, r.r In^rht blue. Curtains of a rich purple, 

triiuined with ,>ran<re, or (Tolden yellow, haveainatrnifieent effect. 
A very lorht blue trimminrr also assimilates well with purf.le. 

In handsonudy furnished houses, the most usual materials 
for curtains, are silk and worsted damask, figured satin, and 
merino cloth; always with shades or inside draperies of nius- 
iin, which should be taken down and washed several times 
durmg the season. Chintz curtains are now seldom seen in 
America, except for bed-rooms. 

It !s not a j^rood custom to krep the curtains up durin<r the 
^uamitr, as it fades fiiem, and coverK them with dust; besides 






FURNITURE, ETC, 



189 



wliich, tliey seem to increase the lieat of the rooms, and impede 
the free entrance (d'the <ur. \'en(>tian and linen hlmds ar(^ the 
Ixst shafles lor wiiubiws in summer tinu\ 



TO C^LEAxN CFirrALNS.— This should always be done 
before they are put away tor the summer. Mavinrr taken 
down the curtains, and shaken them well, brush them with a 
small lont^r-haired brusii, so as to net off all the dust, particu- 
larly from between the (ratbers, ])leats, or flutiricrs. To do this 
conveniently, the different parts of the curtains slmuld be sepa- 
rated. l*re])are a suflicient (piantity of rrf)od wheat bran ; put 
it into a larij-e j)an, and place it before the fire to dry; stirrinjr 
it freipiently with your hands while dryiiiir-. Afterwards, if 
the curtains are of silk, mix with the bran an ounce or mf)re of 
fijsely ])owdered indicro bluc'. Ilavimj provided several pieces 
of clean soft flamud, sjiread tlu^ curtains (a ])iece at a time) on 
a lari.>^e t;d)le, and, sjuinkie them with the brati, a handful at a 
time. Next, take a bit of t!ie tla.nnel, and with M rub t!ie bran 
ronnd and roius-l on th<' curtains, letlinc it rest a wliiic, Iwdnre 
you brush it off. As you proceed, take clean bran and a fV(>sli 
yirro of tlannei, and continue till you liav,' rrone sufficientlv 
over the curtains, which by tins process will be much brifbt- 
cui'd and improved in aj^pearance. Tlien fold them liLrb.t! v and 
smoothly; and iftlievare of merino, worsted damask, or cbah, 
lav am(»nir them mimerous bits of camphor to preserve them 
from moths, ;uid pin or sew them up clostdy in old linen 
slw^ets or table-(dot!is. Then put them away in a chest or 
closet. 

It 'jbc/cfi cliiii?/, curtains are clean, fl r( c-ularly in this manncT, 
\'^ii'0 ibi V are taken d.iwu towards the cbise of sprin^r, they 
\K\\\ not rcfpnre wasbiu!^- iV.r several years. 

Clt(.'mans and scdas, whether c(A'ered witli cloth, damask, or 



M 



190 



THE JfOUSK BOOK. 



i 



chintz, will look much the better for UAng cleaned o(X'asi()nally 
with bnm and fhinnel. 



VKNKTI.W HI.IXDS.^-Astii.ynre intended Cor eonv, - 
nienee rather than for ornarnent, it is not nec(^ssarv that Vene- 
tian hlinds should, I'lko. curtains, have a consj)icuniia ellect in 
the room. On the contrary, it is better that their coh)ur should 
as nearly as possible match that of the wall. Green Ve.h^lian 
blinds are 'n iUw^ out of favour, as that colour fad<s very soon, 
spots with wef, and shows the dust too plainly. Veisetian 
blinds should cvvry day b(> dusted with a small brush or a 
turkey wing, and wiped with a soil dry cloth. 



lASKS WIXDOW iHJNDS.-Th.sr blin.ls. as they 
sofu^n the n-lare of th(> sun without oxcludin<r th.> linht, are 
extremely us( ful m sittintr-rooms and libraries. It is best to 
havo them nijine white Iinon : if cnars.-, thr lij^ht that conjos 
thrrMi^rh ibrm will not bo cloar, the fhi,-k, uiiovon threads dis- 
turbiULr or coufiisn.n n. Hn-u n bojlaud blmds <iarkrn ibo room 
too much. V,,u can prorur(> Imen wnio cuouL,rh to mako racii 
Idmd without a s.^am. 'rh(y should In; sulh.-iontly ionur to 
reach from the top (.f the window to the br,ttom, a little b(dow 
the sill; and it is w.ll to make Ihmi full larm- at tirst, as tin y 
Will shrink m washimr. They are furnisluMi with pullejs, 
tass(ds, kr,, and are htt.'d up by tlu- upholsterers. Care must 
ix' taken that th.. little wheels or pivots over nhich the eord 
IS made to run, are not nrooved too shallow, as that defoet vmH 
eause t!ie rords to slip oir so contnmallv ;is to render tiiem 
nearly useless. 



VXVVM niJ\l)S_Tbescverveheapbl,udsaremadeof 
wall-paper lin. .1 with thi-k douu-stic muslin, and bound with 



URN ITU HE, ETC. 



191 



worst'. (1 ferret. 'I'hey are us<'ful in common l)ed-rooms, for 
attics, and tor kitebens. Beino- double, they darken the room 
as much as can be desired, v.lnui b^t down entirely. 'I'hey look 
best made of j>lain, unfinured wall-j)ap(T; and should hv past( d 
sinootlily on the muslin linimj, both beintr cut so as to fit the 
window from the to{) to the sill. When <}uite dry, bind tbem 
all round, and sew into the bottom of each a roller made of an 
eld brush-handle or sonu tbin<r of the sort, cut off to the projter 
Ieni4-th. Nail to the middle of the window frame, over tlu^ top 
of e'.udi blind, \\ loiin- double striiio- of worsted ferret, so as to 
tall or ban<r down on both the outside and inside. Hv tvin*r 
or untyinif this striiuj-, you can iasten u}) or let down the blind 
to any heioht that is convemeiit. 



SflORT BLINDS. — These are vt^ry usetul in obviaiinu- the 
iiiConvenience of Ix iri!' seen by persons jiassinn- the windows, 
or of bejliij" exposf'd to the Vle^v i ii' ( ipi^ ,.-,i te [m l<j!i})Ours. Slpirt 
\ eiielian blinds, ojX'iiiiin- in tlic miiblle, tluMinh the most exjun- 
bive. are the !)est and most la.stinir- Those of wi^rsted slutf are 
seldom usjmI but tor ofilco-windows. l-'or sittiiiir-rooms, cbain-^ 
hers, K(\, the blinds tr*'n( rally in uso are oi' white muslin. 
Those oS' plain unfu^nired Swiss or Seot(di muslin look miirli 
the best, but are more eusily seen tlirouch than \\\\vi\ the inus- 
lin is striped or cross-barred ; if the latter, let the cross-bars be 
small and close. Lar^rc cross-bars (Mvc muslin a verv unc-cii- 
Xvv\ look for all purposes, even f)r window blinds, 'I\v<> yards 
of six-tjuarter or ell-wide muslin will nfenerallv be suflieietit f>r 
a pair of blinds. They should reach to the top of the lower 
sash, and descend to the window sill. Hem tlw bottom of eirb 
l^lind, and make a case in the top, throunb which run a tape, 
(securing it by a few stitches in tbc middle.) and b-avincr Iout 



f 



Id2 



THE HOUSE ROOK 



I 



.-...Is o|- ,app ,0 « rnp i,,,l,tly round Iho ..uils wl,irh fatten tl,e 
Ijlin.i -.11 liicii Kill., lo tiic wiii,i,,u- IVaiii... 

'I'*"'- ^-Im.uI.I I„. |w„ s, ,s „r l,|,a,ls, as thry will fr..q„rnl!y 
r.'|iii.vu-asl,i„,r. 1, iswHIalvvaystosIarrl, ,l„.„, alml,. 



MAII()(;a.\v 11 i;\r'i'ri;r 'i-i i i 

•> • I < H.\i 1 I Id', — i lie liandsompsl and liost 
'"^'l'"«-any IS ..nrrally usrd lor lurnilurr that ,. „„/ .-amd 

As ti.. lM.a,„y or ,l„ u-,H,d shows to n„ advanta,.. ,n carv,„„, 
"'"'"1 ""■'»-"l'^'li.y,srcs..rvod|-..r|,la,n|-,:rn,l„r,., If J.t 

^- ll-s.a,on,.d. ,„.u ,„al,o,rany uall war,, a„d ,Ta,-k. par.,n,larly 
'n<.-pt„. auann room. It ,s Ims, al u a vs to i,„ v U tr,,,,, -i 
"■^''■""'-'-!--'l"s.al,l,s|,od rop„ta„on. :\Vw lunmaro that 

.s o.loKd lor .alo ,.o„.„l,,aldy „,„/„. the „s„al pn,.,. .s, ,„ n.ost 
--., fo„„d to 1,0 a had ha,-oa,„. Funm„ro ,.,ado ,„ ,ho u ,„- 
<-, and hrou.l„ inunodraioiy trutu a .-old waro-roon, int., a 
"-". ^'l™nn,n(,rsvoryl,aido,n.rark. I, ,s uoll to p| aoo 
V'"r pnnoipai tahio .., ,hat .ho .ran, of ,ho wood ,hdl i,o 



li^m looiilhuayb or wiiii ilo , iid ,.f 



'/'/■".v. Iho liro-pl::,-o ralhor 

tl.e-:,:„ t.„aal. tho l„a:. , „..onin„ Ihi-, p. o, ,„„.n h.s 

;■""'""'"""'" ^■'^'''''■" -■^--- ll-poss ..Hrsalway. 

"-'"■''—-— ".nninr,. n.ado , a tho spr,„,r. , ha, ,t ,nav 

1^^'VO .ovoral months for sras„n,M,-. h,.|oro Iho oo 

ot' lii-t s, 



"inniciiccnirnt 



It a lli:illu(.;;uiy tahir brcnni. S VcfV 



imich dflucr.l i»vscr:itcfirs 



l--l-.L's. or s..,aoh,nos, U; n ,o, to a -aMootonaloa-s , 

■"•"""' ^"■"i-lislMd. It will .l.nih,okas„ollasnow. 

■'■^''•I''^, ^■".. "III. inarldo l.^ps, thonoh tho most oosiiv ,t 

'"'•"■'"'"' '■' i-l-'l-'ps, .hoapoM m ihoond. Thov..,,. 

'""'-' '-'■1" '■' I'V-rolvwipio,. ,hom ov,,v davuH, a 

SOU olo.lh.aud wa.hin.r ,h, ,„ „„,„, „,.„|^ ^^_,,_ coiduator 

'"■"'■•'""' ^"'' ''^ 'loyro.puronooloih lo oov, r thorn, and 

tl-r.. IS no danoor of thoir splitttntr or warping wuh ,1,, ,..at. 



FURNITURE, ETC, 



193 



KOSF%\V()()I). — This is \ho, wood of ihp amyris, a >iin;\U 
Wfst Iiulian {r('(\ Its colour i.s not rrd, imt of a dark rich 
!)ro\VM, and it is now niiicii used for v<M!(H'rinn; han<lsonH' fiirni- 
tiirc. ('hairs, Sijlas, Kr., of rosmvood. siioiild not b,- covered 
with a dark-c(dour< d rnat»'ria!. Sky-hhic, oranuc-crdour, ')r 
brit^ht i^rccn harmonize extremi ly \v( 11 with it. 

To keej) rosc-woo'd furniture in <roo(i order, H shouhi he 
ruhhed u-eutly (vrrut/i/i/ with a clean .--oft (dot};, and this will 
be sutlicient. PrcparaUrin,-, of wax, oi!,\c., cannot be applied 
vvithuul injuring us a])pearance. 



CIjRT.KT) MAPLK. — This is a very [)re}tv wood, is easily 
kept in order, and never ehariLTt's coluur. It is extrenulv suit- 
able ior ciiaHd)ers, lihrarie-s, and for dininir-rooin chairs. It us 
seldom used for drawinn--rooin furniture, liein^r consiilered too 
Htjht, ;ui(i not suificiently riidi. For a sofa, or for (diairs with 
studed bottoms, maple shuuid ad ways be contrasted wit.h a very 
d.ark eolour, (!-•- lu-tanc-. Itlark. K-rown, jMirp'e, or deep rnui- 
Sou,) its etI;'C{ \)i liMjr bad \ritll llolit idiie, (rfrc-n, yellow, 6.:c. 

Curle-d mapb' furniture rerpiires n.o other clcaninfr tlian rub- 
hin<r with a dry cb»th. 



lU.ACIv WAIAIT \V()()f)._Tl,is is now much in nR»» 
for lurniiure, and looks extremely we!! when not oppf)Sed to a 
very dark cobuir. \\ lu re the wof)d is ])la(dv walnut, thi; sofas, 
cusliions. ^c., look best of sky-hlue, nrrass-(rre«^n, scarlet, rose 
crimsdti, or briL'"hf br(.wn. None (d' these colours, hrjv/evcr, 
should l>e f(H) iMjht, or the contrast will bo too n-reat. Dark 
brow n, dark crimson, dark 'jrein, or purjdc, have a very trloomy 
and lieavy elTect when united witli fdack walnut. 

<dean it as you would mah(Mrauv. 

17 



I 



194 



T n F- I! r S E B K. 



ROCKING-rHAlRS.— T}io!)rar lire ol'swayinn: bark wariU 
and forwards in a parlour ro.-kin<r-cliair, i=^ considered oliMolete 
in rrontofd soriety ; and justly so; as it is a most, unoraceful 
recreation, particalarly for a lady, (to say nolhinfr of its ten- 
dency to caus(! <li/7,iruss in the Ix-ad,) and very annoyin«r to 
spectators, who may happen to he a little nervous. Rockincr- 
chairs are now only us(>d for the purpose of reclininrr in witli 
ease and convenience, to which t!ie rockers add frreatly. as by 
their means, the chair can he tilled and kept stationary in any 
position that is desirs-d, provided always there is a footsto(d or 
heavy cnshinn in front, to re^:t the feet on; and with.nut such 
an accompaniment, no chair oi' tliis description can he com- 
pletely comfortahle. 

Parlour rockin«r-chairs are host of malioorany and hh.ick satin 
hair, no other coverinnr keejtinir dean so lontr, and heinir so 
cool in summer. 'I'hnse that are covered with cloth, worsted 
damask, r.r cut vcdvet, will he found uncomfortahly rough, and 
also too warm. 

For comntni! ciciinher^. r,irlv iieo-rhairs <A' curh'd niapie and 
cane net-work are verv ir'od, beino lijriit, cool, and cheap. In 
winter, (*r h>r invalids, they may In- improved in comfort, by 
furnishinfr them with cusliions for the bottom, the baciv. and 
the two arms; tlm cusiiions made of coarse linen, stnth>d wiih 
feathers or liair, covered witli chintz, and. tied on with strinirs. 



FI.OWKU-STANDS.— There i> a v. ry pretty tlower-^tand 
called a jnrdinitrr. Tt is made in tln^ form of a small maho- 
crany table, with a top \\\{r ;i dinner irav. into ihe-> tray tits 
u painted bb)ck-tin |)aai oi' th" same si/e, with a mov;i!/le w ire 
cover of trellis-work, tln^ net larirf and open. 'I'his pan is hlle(i 
with wet sand, and the trellis-vvork cover is then lanl on. 
Take your flowers (the stalks cut all of a lengtli) ami >tick 



t r K N I I I H K, J 1 C. 



195 



them firmly down throunh the wire netting into tin; sand he- 
neatii. Tiie flowers siiould be tastefully arranired, with the 
larnt.st in the centre, and the smallest round the edges; and 
there must be a sulFici.nt (juantity of them to form a mass or 
close l)ed. Or you 'uay have the central tlow ers taller th;m the 
others, which sliould i!;radually diminish in luis^hl all arouiul 
them, till the snlall ones near the ed^e are but just above the 
rim <d" the frame. Arranged in this manner, they will look 
like a bank of fluvsers. 

71io jardiniere has a loose extra top of mahojiany, which hta 
in, and convt rts it into a complete table v. hen not m use for 
flowers. 

In forming bouijuets or nosegays, always put the largest, 
fullest, and most substantial flowers in the centre, (tor instance, 
roses, dahlias, camellias, &c.,) and those liiat are smallest, 
lightest, and most branchy, on the outside. 

Flowers m;'.y be phiced very handsoiuely in green baskets 
filled with wet sand. 



SCl\ AP-.TAI^S. — it is a ureat convenience to keep standing 

on llu' fiosjr, in a. cc»rner ai the roian, a very large jar, tor \\\v. 
purpose of' receiving bits ot' waste paper or clippings, v/hi<-h 
tin re may be no immediate way to get rid of. If of china, oiui 
of t!ies(^ jars will add a handsoa'c ornaiiKail t^» the parlour. 
For a library (where they are pa.rticularly um fu!) you may get 
from a sxr^'Cer, a very large raism-jar of ungla/ed earthen, and 
have it j)ainted all c-V( r in oil, so as to iniit:ite china, allerwards 
varnishino it. For a ehaiuher, or a common sltlin^-! oMii;. v\ e 
h.ive se( n lliesu cartlu II jar-> decorat'd ail over with Ih'U^Ts, 
&c., ^'vA out of i'unature climt/,, pa-^led oii :-e(Mirely. 'Oid aller- 
wards coated VNiLii varnk^h. If done With i.i-h . ih. y 1 H,k e\- 
tiemcly well. I'Vom the form of these jars, and hi inu small 



f 



i 






196 



TIIR UOl'J«K BOOFv. 



at the mouth, tin ir coiilt'nts arc not ohsrrvod, unless purposely 
looked into, and Ihey will he fo-und exrelh-nt r.ee[)t-,irles for 
refuse pap( r,&e., ])artieular!y in summer, when there is no hre 
tu consume tliese scraps. 



o 



(MJPPINC BAOS. — In a room where any sewin^r is done, 
aclipidnjr hajr will he found very useful to han^ in a conve- 
nient \)hici\ for the purpose of rrceiviiifr shreds, shapiinjrs, kr., 
of the artichs cut out at5(l sewed theie. 'I'he very smallest hits 
and scraps of linen, cotton, or silk (ev(>n ravellinn^s) are use-ful 
to tJu^ paper-makers, and nothinix- that is useful should he Imrnt 

r d« siroyed. If all the temales of our country made a prin^-iple 
of savinsr m this manner the whole of their shreds and clippincrs, 
and rdso all tlu ir rans, then- would he less n<H^(!Ssity for import- 
mtr raos trom Phirope : which is constantly done to a very large 
auiouut, in conserjuencf of the scanty supply to hv. ohtained in 
America. 

A ciippino-h^.'j rnnv he innili v< ry handsome and ornamental ; 
iri \shich ease n ^le.uld aiwav.- l»e put away in a closet while 
the room is heinir sw-pl. When this \)A(r is full, let it he 
emi'Med into the lartre <rrneral ra',r-hair whi(di shruild he kept 
in every house, 'I'lioiio-h the price <jiven f >r a pound of ra^s 
is hut a h'w cents, still <'ven tiuit is sijmetliinir, '^ind will at least 
buy sonu' neetih s, or pins, or a cottr)n-spo(d ; and it a lady 
chooses, she can 'jive the money to th(^ servant who conveys 

the rafTS to the raf-uian. 



TO riJvW V\I?\IS|l!:f) MAHOGAW FFRNl- 
TLUl^. — 'I'ake rotteii-sLonc very iiia ty puwdered, sift it 
throuirh hook-muslin, and uiiK it witli sw( ci oil. 'fheu, witli 
a ch>an, soft, linen (^r rotton chith. ruh it very hard on the ma- 
ho^-any. Next lake a clean cloth, dip it in vvheat llour, and 



>l RNITURK, l.TC. 



197 



vsith it ruh otV the rotten-stone. Afterwards dust oil' the fh»ur 
With a ch-an silk handkerchief. The furniture will he found 
to look heautifully. It is only necessary to clean it in this 
manner ahout once m three or four montli- ; hut it should 
every tiay he dusted with a soft coiion cloth. 



TOCIJvAN I NVAUMsliKI) M Al K XJ AN V TABLKS. ^ 

— W ipe the tahle all over with a clean damp cloth. Then take 
a thiii, l»road, ll.it furnilnn> ^o^l^, and ruh ii hard on a!! tlse 
v\iutp sju-is or otlHT stains. Next Uilr a iuush with a lutle 
hees-wax on it, and ruh the tahle V(^ry hard, n;oinrr according 
to the <rr:tin of the maho<ranv. Afterwards ruh oil the wax 
with a tlannel (doth, and tiuish with a sofi cotton ch)lh. 

liave ahasket (^r a laroe coarse ha<r to contain al! that is 
necessary for the maho^rany ruhhinrr: hrush. cork, hees-wax, 
cloths, &c. Before usinii it warui tlu^ wax a litthj. 



TO POLISH DLNLN(,-TAIlLi:s.~Takec.dd--drawn lin- 

sord oil, and ruh it on f ^r a lono nine wilh a v. ry soil ciulh. 
Tiiis is tlie host way i o prevent dimn^r-tahh/s front heinjT marked 
hy tlu' hot dishes. 

WAX POT-TSH.— Melt h. es-wax in spirits of turpentine, 

With a very small pre-portion of rosin. When it is entirely 
dissolved, dip in rt spon<re and wash the mahojrany lightly 
ov, r with. It. immediately afterwards, ruh it otT with a cU-an 
soft (loth. For the carv(d work, spread on the mixture with 
a small s.lt hrush, and ruh it otT with another hrush a very 
little harder. 



'IWiU-K MlX'iM in:.— Mix wril n -eilur two (ainces ot 
spirits of turnentine. four talde-sixxMifuls of sweet oil. and r/ne 



,r 



p 

If 



198 



THE I!0! »E BvlOK. 



quart of milk. Put it \nU) })otilrs, and cork it closely. When 
iarfre tables are iimisually soiled and stained, (for instance, 
after a dinner or snjiper party,) shake- tip the ndxture, pour 
Bome of it into a s.iucer, di[) into it a clean sp()nn;e, and ruh 
70ur tahlf all ov(-r with it cpiickly and evenly. Tlien dry it 
with a clean Hanne!, and afterwards rut) it hard witli a clean 
«ofl cloth. 



SOFAS AND MAIiO(^\^^ ('HAIRS.— With your hand 
heat the dust out ol" the Ir.udvs, hottonis, and cushions. Then 
with a painter's hristh; brush, tliat lias never been in paint, 
i>rush over all tlie niadiofrany, to jret the dust (ujt of the carvinrr. 
This should be done t very day in rooms that are continually 
in use. When it is necessary to (nve the chairs, ^'c, a rrreater 
cleamnsj, use (it' the mahriirany is varnished) sweet oil, rubbed 
on with a tlarm* !, and finished off witli a silk handk"rchief ; 
or, what is ^tiil better, finelv pou-it r^d and sifted r'/tten-stone, 
ini\<'d with swr^t oil. If (he nr.ihofninv is nnf varnislud, have 
ready two oiitM't--. or liinrr nt btis-wax. scrMprd down ;ind put 
into a lar with as inu'-h -pints of turpentine as will covst ii. 
'J'his nnisi stand till the wax is entirely dissolved. VvJ a littlo 
on a tlannel,or ('U a fit of nreon baize, rub it on the cliairs,an(l 
polish them \\ itb a hrnsh. 

In biivinir ,'r hesjx .ikimj a sofi, see that the seat is rial too 
hi'j;h and narrow, that the stut]in<_r 'd' the baek diies not project 
too tar forward, and that the ariiis are not too low ; with these 
d( fe<'ts any sofi will be \incomfortab1e. 

Chairs whose baid^ < nieliiif forwani arr extreiuely iiie(inve- 
liierst, as they ai!i-w htth' more ihin tiitir edgu to th»' siltor, 
wlio IS also oL'liired to kt-ep bolt ujjriijht. uid remain tititliv in 
tbe same position. 



4 



FURNITURE, ETC. 



199 



TO (U.EAN ALABASTKU.— Make a mixture in the pro- 
portion of two ounces of aiiua-lorlis to a pint of cold ram or 
river water, which ounht hrst to be hltered, as it is important 
that the water use.l for this purpose should be perfectly clear. 
Dip a ch.an brush m this liquid, and wash the alabaster with 
it for hve nanutis or more There should be a brush small 
enomrh to .n> into the nu^st minute parts. Then rinse it with 
cold cb^ar water, and set it m the sun ior two or three hour. 

to drv. 

TlH" aqua-f.rtis wdl u.ake the alabaster very ubite; and, 

beinir so mueh diluted, will do u no injury. Soap siiould never 
be used lor alabaster, as it will «rreatly discolour it. 

Alabaster ornaments e.uM^t to be cleaned m the. abov. man- 
ner, previous to covering them up f <r the summer. If kept 
always uncovered, tlu^ will re(piire eleanmn: with aqua-b^rtis 
and water twice a year, spriier and autumn 

WHITH MAKHLK.— White marble door-st(^ps should be 
v.-,.hvd .very nmrmu- (except m freo/,n- weather) wi.h cold 
uater and <oap. 'I'hi. is the custom in Philadelphia. Grease 
j,,;.y be rcmovid from them, bv rubbu.- on some l.m« marble- 
.lust (procured from the marble-cutters) mixed into a paste with 
cold wat.T, and put on with a brush ; r.peatinu- tin: process, 
till the ;irease disappears. 

Marble tables may also be washe.l with <-old water and .oap. 
The white marble used f.r vases, bust>, and very eb'.rant 
„,,ntel-pi(>ces or tables, bemcr r,f the hnest .juality, and h.-hiy 
jH.li.hed, cannot be washed with sr,ap and water wilhout u.|nry. 
Th,' best way to keep it clean and brmht is, by ru!>tunir it d.uiy 
uith a soft dry cloth, or a clean silk handkerchief. Shuns and 
^rease->pots inay be extracted from il by rnbbintr them well 
,viih s;ot .r^.^rMl, salt of tart/r, or magnesia linely powdered. 



f 



r 



11 * 



200 



r 11 E II u s I-: BOOK, 



Ltd tlie powder rfinain two or three hours on the spot ; then 
wipe It oil, and renew it till the iiitiriv disappears. 



("OLOt;HED MARBLi:.— Black, ^rray, or varienaud 
marble may hv made very cieais, hy rubbing" on il with a brush 
;i jiaste (-oinpound ofajill i.f ox-;i;-all, a jill of stron^r soap-biuis, 
and liaif a jiil of tui[!»;nliiie, all mixed tr.(r,'t,her and thieken! d 
with finely jjowdercd pipt -clay. \'ou shfjiild have a sec(;iid 
iirusli, sMiali < lioiijrh to u() into ihc thitiotr, ^r. Haviiin" applied 
rliis paste to the niaiid*', k-t it rcimiin undisturbed tor two days. 
Then wip(^ it oft"; and il you do not iind the niarbl(> pt rfectly 
!)ri^!it :ind clean, repeat the mixture a sec'jnd or a third lime, 
and it will certainly succeed by repetition. 

(irease-^pots (( ven these of lamp-oi!) may be removed from 
a marble hearth, by coverin<r the place thickly with s-Taped 
W liiiiinnton (lav, w ipin<i it oil, and renewinf]^ it every two or 
til let' hours. 

Grease may also be taken out, by rubinno- tiie st-au' wiih a 
mixtute (d" pearl-ash, lime, and water, made into a paste or 
murtnr; leavjnc- it oji several hiairs: then wipnm it o.i, and 
re[)eatinij" it. 

Iron stains nray be remoV( d from marble, by \\etlin(r the, 
s})ots\\itii (li! of vitriol, or with lemon-juice; (!r v.ith (ixaiic 
acid diluted in spirits ol v\ im , and alter a ipiartt r ot an h'iur, 
• nbbinfr tliem dry with a soft linen (hah. 'Idn- same applica- 
ti' lis w ill take out other stains Ifoin marble. 

The (^ineral appearanci^ of a <^ray m.irble hearth uill l.ie 
[Teativ li! iirhi'iicd and. iini>rovod, bv rubbmo n orcasjon.ally 
\si!ii a ll.nmcl vs ct uiih linseed oil. 'I'he oil must iir rubbed 
in very hard, so as not to « omo oil and cTrast- any ihmj,' that 
may afterward =; t-nudi it^ N'Xt da.y toi ,,ver ii v^ ilh a clean 
{\r\ cloth. 



trRNlTt Ur, ETC. 2^^ 

I 

STONE HEARTHS. — Hearths of fn(--ston(^ or of brown 
sand-stone, should first be waslied clean in hot soap-suds, and 
then rubbed with a paste or mortar, made of the powder or dust 
of tht> same stone, (to he obtained at the st(me-rutt(>r's,) mixed 
with a little water, i^cave it to dry on, and then brush it ofV. 

A kitchen hearth-st(me may occasionally be rubbed all over 
very hard with iamp-oU ; next day washinj.r it W(dl with soap 
and warm water. 



]nn(Mv HEARTHS.— Brick hearths should be painted 
f itber red (.r black ; or with the Imck ]vart Idack, and the front 
part red. They will r( .juire new paintinfr a^ ^'^x' t^^ i^'*' '^ >' ■''^» 

If not painted, it is best to keep the hearth clean by daily 
washino ; as both the reddin^r and blackinix mixtur( s sonndimes 
nsed for hearths ar.^ troublesome from their liability to rub otV. 
and from their too frecpiently recpiirinfj a renewal. 



:uri 



('EKAN!\'(; Sn<VER.--^rhe articles n.^cessary for this 
,,,.;,. ,]|, ;,:!,! brkoj.! by tbcmsdve^in a bad.ei or Im.x. ^ ou 
will want .dean tlannols. .p.-mrcs, bmdxskin-, old ^ilk i.and- 
krrchnfs, and plate-brusln s (.f two or thne didcre.it si/es ; 
annai- wh.ndi, one resemblinrr a soft looth-brnsh will be found 
useful b>r the mirmte parts of the ctiasin<r. and to rub between 
the pronurs of the lorks. None (d the brashes should he hard, 
l,.st"they scratch the plate. Silver that is m dally use should 
be eh>am-d (u.ce aweek, (f>r instance, every Thursday.) b..t 
plated-ware not so (dten, as the platm-j will W(>ar off if rubbed 
M,o freiuontly; a briidi should never be n>vA to it. 

|{,ah silvei and p!ated-ware d.ould bo washed with a snonrre 
and waian .oap-sud., cvory day afor a.miz, and wiped dry with 
a r\r-M^ soft toW(d. Always botore y^n oive tlmn. their r( oi,'Ar 
,ie;min" xs !th powder, << " that tin v have been washed perfectly 






i 



'%•* 



202 



fre(^ { 



rn i; n o ii s i: n ou a. 



rf 



nil ^rreasc or any like iin])uri 



ty ; otherwise tliey cannot 



be iiiculc to look biiglil aiui vv( 11 when liairiheil. 

'rh«_' HioRt common method of cieanini^ silver, is with fmlve- 
rizoii wliitini* anJ whisky ; or v.ith sj.irils of wine, winch is 
htnt<'r. Tiie whiting must he made as lim; as possible; ior if 
there are any coarse or rougli |)articles aujong it, they will 
scratch the siiv. r- \\m may ])owcler it very tlnely, eitiier by 
pounding it in a mortar, or !iy tyinn- it iij> in a (deiin ra;^% hiying 
il diAvn on the hearth, and heatiier it with a hammiT ; ai'lcr 
wiiicii, sproad il thinly over a large plate, and phice il lictore. 
the lire t) dry. I'lnai sui it tlirougii a piece ot" coarse hook- 

islin or leno. Mix the whiting into a paste or cream, with 



im 



wliisky or spirits ofwint;; and hy dij»ping a tlannel or sj)onL(( 
into it, coat tii(^ silver all over with the mixtur*'; after whi(di, 



1- 



IV a I 



ttie 



irticl 



es in the sun to dry ; or phice them on an o 



dd 



j.ipanned waiter, hel'ore the- lire, hut no>l v.;ry near it. The paste 



must her'diiie -,0 dry 011 the artudes, that }ou may du>t 



;i oil 



them like thuir, u i;h a Stot'l <doth. Afterwards, with tu.e saia! 



es 



1 iii'u-^u, re 



!) !;et\\, ! Ill the proii; 



II" iork-. aui 



II I ) t ' ver a 



[ 



the mmule or dtlieat!' part-^ ot the siivr. 1 tie plain 01 unorua- 
mented parts are, he>t ruhbed w ilh llamu 1, as they siiovv the 



mos 



t tritlirer scrat(die 



Next, 



H^iisn Willi a Ini' 



.skin or 



a siiammv h'ather; and finish witli a soft silk handkerchief. 

Tiie above moiie ot' (deaniiiLX (if done weekly) will he >u;H- 
cient tor silver that is in common use, and will keep it alv\avs 
hriirhl. Its appearance may be improved, and a look ot ri 



e\\ - 



ness 



given to it, bv employ 



mtr ()C('asiona 



ly(but 



not very ollen) 



the 



ro 



ISll 



lovvder ealleil 



[)late-roii'M., ;is a sub^titatr f-r 



vvtiitmo' anil w Iii-k v 



'I'his j)o\N(|rr is to be oi)t,i!ued Irom llit» 



(Iruijijists, and shoiiid be useil m vtrv-urali (piant ilus. Ai!<'r 

p-^^-uds ;md dri"d 



tiie silver has Ix'i 11 wa 



\va -le 



Hi vvariM so; 



I'HUiec 



■ub on a utile ot the rouLTo 



with a soft buckskin, 



Ff'RMTVKK, lie 



o 



03 



using 



a hrnsh foT the crevict 



s. Let it rest aho\it ton minutt^s 



then wipe 1 



t all 



o 



tf with a soft rag, ind polish with a clean 



hucl 



vSKin 



f!uis!iin<r with a silk haiulkerchict. 



When silver has !>ecome much tarms 



bed. 



s )0 



itcd. or dis- 



('.'"» 



es^ 



If 



ivner 



ear 



1 of 



loured, it may i)e restored hy tlie following proc 
dissolved two tea-spoonfuls of powdered alum m a q 

lerately strong ]ye, stir in a till of soft soap, and remove 

to ihesurfice. After wa.-hing 
noiurf^ and cover every arti(de 



m<M 



ll'e '^cum o 



r dross that may rise 



the silver in hoi water, take a sj 



a!) o 



•r with this mixture- 



la t ttie lhin"-s re-t about a qtiarte'f 



■ I' an hour, iVe.pu'ully turning 



ihi m. Next w a-h thnn oil in 



wa 



rm soa.p-suds, and wi 



pe them dry with a soft (doth, 



Aft 



er- 



w 



ar.ls briohten them with ronge-pow ^ler, 



ler, or witii whiting am 



Si)] r Its ( 



d" win 



Another, an.l a v<-ry exc( 



llent wav 'd' (deaning silver, is 



Avith w 



!eit is calbMl prfp 



art 



r/ chalL\ w hi(di is rather better than 



■wuitin*i;, 



and reouires no vi 



tVnor. Mix together in a tin pan, pre- 



n ; t r I • ( 1 e ! i a i >\ 



Old <[iiril.^ ot wine 



i^d. 



;t on 



((■ Ni 



a pee 



,)!! 



\- ( r \\\\\\ a 



aKe a -ui.ii 



till f 



anil' 



\ev are a- 



\\\\<- 



:\\\' 



i<ai fai) 



■,\s erea!!i. 



iloif w Ilh 



d 



x\-or 



k, and Innsh w ith a v.ry 



Snnb f .r the chasing or emltn^qpf 
ft eloih .md a silk handkercinef 



Anot' 



if^r way 



ano 



whiidi !s sal 



d. to nr( 



ser 



ve the Oldish better 



than atn^ <d the nsu' 



■ 1 modes of cleaning si 



Iver, is, after it has 



Ixen was 



bed with hot wa.OT. to 



( r o O 



vcr it with a p;is1e madi 



■ {' fine hartsltorn pow 



drr (well siI^KmI) and spirits of turpentin.> 



ru'd,eil on w 



ith a bather aaid not wipe. 



1 otl' till il has dried, 



hen polls 



h w ith a (dean bu(d.>kin ; an* 



I set the plate in the 



sun am 



] -.nr to disrxd tbr Minll of the turpentin.- 



(diesis, or (dos. is eon ^truett 



d f .r tlie purpose r.f eontaining 



P 



late, sbouM l)e poier 



II 



ti;,> dryest pari "t" the house 



an 



I 



liru'd al! Ihrouoh wilb i^reen hai/e or other wo( 



,l|f'n (doth. U 



\s t 



II t. 



have 



tl 



(em of iron 



an 



d made fire proed, 



IMate 



I 



204 



THE nOlJSK BOOK. 



baskets should also be lined tlirou<rhout with green baize. l( 
silver is kept in a damp place, it is liable to tarnish and spot 
continually. 



TO UEMOVE MEDICINE STAINS FROM SILVER 

SPOONS.— Silver spoons frequently become discoloured by 
using them in takinrr medicine. These stains (even that of 
muriate of iron) may be removed by rubbmir the spoon with a 
ratr di})[)e'd in sulphuric acid, and afterwards washin5.r it oil' in 
sua])-sups, and then cleanimr liic spoon in the usual manner. 



A FINE PL\TE MIXTEIiE.-Tako one pound of the 
best whitinfr, or of prepared chalk, and rub it to a fine powder. 
Then sitt it. Mix ton;(iiH>r four ounces of spirits of turpentine : 
two ounces (.f spirits of wine: one ounce of spirits of r;iin- 
]dior, and half an oniice of sj)irits of hartshorn. Tln^n add tlu; 
whiliiijr aradually to tlie li(juid, stirrinjr in a little at a time, 
and mixinir the whole thorou^irhly till it is of the consistence 
r-f (Tf-ani ; put it into a v. ry ''lose vessel, (a lar^v f.ntth', nr a 
while jar,) aiuI i-ork it Jjirinly, tyinir down a leather ovt r the 
cork. T(j u.se the mixture, pour out a suihcient jjortion into a 
liowl or })an, and with a soft clean sponge cover the silv( r with 
11 so as to give it a ceat lik»' white-wash. Sot tht^ silver aside 
for ton minutes or more till th(> paste has dried into a jMAvchr. 
Then brush it olT. and polish hrst with a buckskin, then with a 
Silk handkerrhief. 

It will \h' found very convenient to keep this mixture always 
in the house. It makes the plate look beautifully new. 



ANOTHER EI. ATI: MlXTrRE-^Euherize an ounce 
ot lump oam])hor, mix it with lifiy drops of sweet .al, and 
dissolve it m a pint of whisky. Put it into a bottU nnd keep 



TURN I TIT RE, ETC. 



205 



it very closely corked. When yon wish to use it, mix with it 
a sutficiency of powdered whiting- or prepared chalk to make a 
thin past(^, and coat the silver all over with it. After it is dried 
on, brush it off, and polish with a buckskin and silk handker- 
chief; usin<T a small brush for the cavities and chasings. 



TO OBTAIN VERY FINE WHITINO.^-Pour water on 
it. Then after a while, pour ofT the water IVom tin; whiting 
that has settled at the bottom, and rej)lace it with more water. 
Let it settle for a time, and then again po\ir otf the water from 
the top. By rt^peatlng this [)rocess several times, you will 
obtain a whiting that, after it has Ixcmi spread out to dry in the 
sun, will be as fine as tlour. l*ut it away lor use in a closely 
covered box. 



CLEANINC; i>LATEI) WARE.—Plated ware mu<t nr,t 
be elr;',ne(l ;is fVoip.ient ly as silver, lest the p'at inn; shou Id wc-v 
oil'. If not greasy, it will be sutlieient, after usniir, to wip eit 
V. ith a soft cloth. If greasy, wash it m a smal! tub <,i' strong 
hot soap-suds; taking out (>ach articde (juickly, and wijtina- it 
immediately with a soft iin^^n eloth ; using a clean flamul to dry 
U thoroughly, and hnishing with a silk handkerchief^ Onee a 
fortnight it may l)e cleaned by covering it with prepareil eh.dk 
finely j)owdered,and madiMuto a paste with sweet oil. When the 
mixture has dried on, wash it off with a sponge dippr-d in s|)irit3 
of wine MT whisky. Tiion ru!) the article dry with a soft dan- 
re 1, and finish with a silk han(lk<rehief\ Ir is host to use no 
brush for plated ware, and t(» give it less rii!d)irig thar\ if it 
were silver. With careful cleaning the he>,t j)l;.trd ware will 
last a long time. 



H 



206 



Tin: HOUSE no OK. 



SILVER ANT) PLATHD CANDLESTICKS.— To re- 

ii»ov(^ \\;ix or spt^nnucf^ti I'roni silvi r or jjlated cantliesticks, 
j)our (/I) thcni a litth; warm (not. boiling) watrr, and whrn it 
lias iiicltcd tlif (^rr< asr, wipe it off with a flanncL 'Vo l(K»s(n 
l!n- urease liy scrapinir with a knife will scratch the silver. 
'I'hcn wash the cati(llestjcks well with a s})f)nn;-e dipped in warm 
Soap-suds, takinir care not to wet the ^reen baize that is 
C( nnntf (1 under the bottom, lest tin; moisture should loosen it. 
\N ;ish the candlesl!(dvs (jne at a time, and wipe each ont^ dry 
!)( fore vou wash arsothrr. Then elean them with fme whiuinr 
(T pro|»a!rd (diaik and whisky, in the usual manner, or with 
\\ hilin^- and sv\(>et oil, 

i Mated candlesticks should be cleaned but seldom with any 
sort of powdt r, and nevor with a Isrush. 'i'h* ir utmost rubbimr 
biujuld be u itli a soft llanncd. But t very mormicj let the wax 
or spermac< ti !).■ mdtid oil" with warm water, and then wipe 
tin m rdean with a soft chjtli. 



(.' |-]R,M A N S!L\ El\, — I'stk^ i ftliis .'(impMSiUon arriiiurh 
in us( ; and when very nrood ii has a r* senibianec to o-enuine 
sil\er, and is eijually durable. Jt is by no means costiy, and 
wlu'ii pr(»[>erly talvcn care of, and kept l^ri^ht, it lo')ks vory weM. 
Alter usinn, it should be j)ut immediatcdy into hot water, washed 
well, and wiixd dry with a. soft (doth. Once a werk^h t it bo 
wnsled in s(.ap-suds, and then tdt •.med with very hue whitimr 
or prej.arrd (dialk, mixed with whi^ky or spirits of wine, so 
as to make a paste, whi(di should afterwards be bru.died otT. 
Should this meta! become discoloured or spotted !)y v!ne(r:ir or 
<-ih< r arids, wadi it first, an<l then clean it with sweet oil and 
powdered rotten-stonr. 

Spoons of (;erman silver are useful for many common pur- 
poses, particularly \ylu;n makincr sweetmeats, &c. 



FIRNITIRK, KTC. 



207 



BRITANNIA ME'iWL. — Powder, as fme as possibh", lialf 
a pound of lump whitinn;, and sift ii vxcll. Then mix with it 
a wine-(Tiass (d' sweet oil, and a tabb^-sjioonful of soft soap, or a 
bit (d" y( llow soap nudted in a little water. Add to this mixture 
siilliciont rum, wliisky. '»r spirits of wine to make it the con- 
sistence of thi(d< cn-am. I)ij> into it a soft sponsre or a tlanntl, 
and rub it (piickly and evenly on the arti(de ; wipe it oil' with 
an old lim n or cotton (doth, and pe.lisli it by rubbing with a 

bu(d;skin. 

Iiritamda metal is fretpiently manufactured witli so larc;(> a 
portion of copper as to reruhT the use of the ariitde extrem* ly 
unwlndt^some. Tea and coflVe-p'ots of tliis metal have hvm 
known to (nve the li(p.iid ccjntained in them so strong a taste 
and smell of copper, as to rondiT the drinking it almost e(pial 
to swallowinir poison. \\ hen an articde of Britannia metal is 
found to contain too much copper, the use of it should be imme- 
di;!te!v c-iveii ui),as no {)roc( ss wdnitever can rciuh r it utherwis'j 
than deletenous. 

'idle sab'st, a.iid in cverv r- - p< cl the most ;deas;:iit It a-po!s, 
are those (d'tddna, Wedn-wood wau' is very I'pt. afu r a while, 
to acqcire a disagreeable tast(\ 



IILOCK TIN DISH COVERS, c^c— llavintr washed ihe. 
block tin artifdes quit(> clean in warm w atcr, rub the inside w ith 
sni^t ratrs moistened with fine wet whitintr. 'I'hcn take a sot't 
liiitMi (doth, and lT" '^vcr the outside w ilh a litlle switt oil. 
ISext rub it all over with line w bitiiaj, 1'"^^ d«r< d aed .-died, 
and nut on dry. Aftcrward.s lini-di wi'li a chsin dry rb'-th. 
}?b.ck tin di^h covers cleaned in tbi> \'.'.v \\\\\\ ( il ai;d wlii;iiig, 
"W-ill presi rve lln ir polish, aiid ci ntinue to b-ok m w, preiviihd 
that they are adways wijM (1 dry as s.'on .is lie y a.re lui iicht 



208 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



from table, ami no stoaiii or oUicr daiup is allowed to remain 
on them, 

Connnon arliclt .s of itlork tin, such as kettles, sauce-pans, 
&:c., may he cleaned with whitinir and water only. You may 
clean jxwtcr in iIk; same manner. 



rOMMON TIXS. — Throw some wood-ashes into a wash- 
kettle, pour on Wdivr till it is two-thinls full, and then 1(4 it 
boll. Or /nake a stiono; iyf>. I)ij) in the tins when it is hoil- 
iiin^ \\')i ; and, if they arc; very dirty, leave them in about ten 
minut(;s. Takf; them out, and cover tliem with a mixture of 
soft soap and the very finest sand, '['his must be rubbc.'d on 
with a coarse tow-clotli. Then rinse tliem in a tu!) of cold 
water, and set them in the sun to drain and dry. When dry, 
fuiish by ru!)biuir ihem wtdl with a clean woollen clotli or llan- 
nel. Tlicy will look very nice and briirht. 

Von may clean peuier in the same manner. 



('Llv\M.\(r JAPAN.\!:i) WAFFKHS, [tr\s, &c.— 
I^ib ou wiUi .1 sjionfre a little white soap ami sonu' luke-warni 
w :i.ter, au(i wash \\\o wait«^r or urn quite cle-an. Never use hot 
watf r, a.s it will cause the japan to scab; ojf. Haviii^^ wijied 
It <lrv, sprinkle a iittle (h^ur over it; let it rest a while, and then 
nib i! with a srifi dry cloth, and Imisii with a silk iiandker- 
chir'f. If there are whitf; heat marks on the waiters, they will 
be (iillicsilt to remove. [)ut y(»u may try rubi)in(r them with a 
ll.mnel dippe.l in sweet oil, and afterwards in spirits of wme. 

\\ .'.iters ;ind other arlicles oi p/rjiif r nxirhi, should be washed 
with a sp,.ii(_r,. ;ni(| cMld wat( r wnhout soap, dredin-d with 
iloiir v\ biie daiup, and aft-r a while wiped olf, and then po- 
lished With a silk iiandkerchief. 



FURNITT^RF,, ETC, 



209 



TO CLEAN JAPANNED CANDLE-STICKS, &c.~- 

Pour on water just warm enough to melt the (rrease, for if scald- 
ing hot it will injure the japan. Next wipe them well with a soft 
doth; sprinkle them with flour from the dredging box: h't 
them rest a while, and then wipe them olf with a clean cloth. 

Japanned urns, waiters, &c., should be cleaned with a spon.re 
and cold water, finisliing with a soft dry cloth. So also 
sle uld Lidia lacquered articles. 



TO CLEAN DE(^\N'FEUS, &c.— Place a funnel in the 
mouth of the decanter, and pour throu<rh it some small shot, or 
some raw un-pared potato cut into Hltle scpiare bits, or some 
pounded emr-shells. Have ready in a small tub, a strong suds of 
white soap and cold water, which will be the better f )r havinir 
a little }.earl-ash dissolved in it: or a few droj)S of muriatic 
acid mixed with the water will irn-atly imi)rove the poiisl, of 
the jjlass. Dip out some of the suds, pour it into th<' decanter 
(through the funnel) and shake it about with the shot, or cut 
potato, from hve to ten minutos. till you s-e all the iun^ariiies 
.lisappear iVom the inside of the glass, 'j'hen <Mnptv il oM, 
put in some more suds, and wash round the inside with a l^it 
of sponge ti(Hi on the end of a stick. It is w.dl to have a 
regular glass-stick, which should be more: than a toot in leeurih, 
with a flat knob at the (-nd on which to fisten a si)r.nge er a 
soft ra<r. After having washed th(> decanters in the above 
manner, rinse them out twice with clear cold water. Next put 
them into the tub of clean soap-suds, and wash them well .m 
the outside With a ^lass-brush, (a brush with a broad handle 
and short l.ristles,) and afterwards nnse the outsido m dean 
water. Dry the inside with a bit of s-^'t r;ig fixed t(- tl,. end 
.,f your ixl^'-'^-'^tick, and wipe the out.nle with a s,d"t towel, 
fmishincr uith a Silk handkerchief, or a shammy leather, or a 

18* 



210 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



FURNITURE, ETC. 



211 



pi' 



soli huckskin; riibbinrr well into all the cavities, if the glass 
IS cut. 

Wiiie-g-lasses and tumblers sliould he washed in the same 
iiinnner with cold soa|)-sud.s and a glass-brush, finishing them 
as above. 

C'ommon glasses that are in daily use, may be washed sim- 
j)ly with c(dd water; drained, wiped, and then finished witii a 
line dry towel. 

Class cloths should be of fine quality, that there may be as 
little lint as jxtssible. 

For cruets from the castors, it will be necessary to have the 
water warm : Uni not /lof, as glasses break when hot wat.^r is 
poured into them. After the cruets are emptied of their con- 
tents for the ))urpose of washing, fill th.^m, as far as the neck, 
with warm water; shake thciu, and lot them stand a while to 
soak. 'J'lien ])rocoed as dir(cted for decruitcrs. 

Jb.iling walf^'- siiould n( ver i)(^ ])oured suddenly into glass, 
partiriihiri y in frosty weather. r;«>sid<^s thf> danger ofits crack- 
niu 1,1 h(4 wator, it l(J(;ks briirhtor and (^|.-nrcr when done in cubl. 



TO L()nSf:\ CLASS S'I'()l>)>j:HS.-„\Vi,rn th.ro is 
dilliciihy in rem.n-ing a glass stopper, pour round it a little 
sweet, oil, ( !(*se to the mouth of the bottle. 'I'iien lay il near 
the fire \Mtli tiic mouth towards the heat, and when it (.^efs 
<|Mite warm, wrap a thick (doth nMind tli(> end of a stick, and 
strd<e (but not tooliard) first itt one side of the stopper, tlien 
;it the otlier. Tiiis will sooi, h.osen it. Or yeai may set the 
botlle in a ves.1t! of warm uater. previous to striking at the 

Stopj.rr. 



with prepared chalk, and a soft brush, carefully going into 
all trie tlutings and cavities. Then finish with a clean soft 
buckskin. 

TO WASH VIALS.— In most families a'-e gradually collected 
a number of vials that have b«M;-n used for medicine. It is well 
to have a bask(;t purposely to keep them in, and once m a wlule 
to wash them all, that they may be ready to send to the drug- 
gist's when new medicine is wanted. Put into a wash-kettle 
some sifted ashes, and })our on it a sufficieiicy of cold water. 
Then put in the vials, (without corks,) i)lace the kettle over 
the lire, and let it gradually come to a boil. After it has boiled 
a while, take it olf, and set it aside; letting the vials remain 
m till cold. Tiien take them out, rinse, drain tiiem, and wipe 

tiie outsiders. 

You may wash black botth^s in tne same manner. 
If yf>u have occasion to wash a single vial or botthN pour 
inio It through a small funnel either some ly(>, or some l\ik<'- 
wann water m wliieh a little pearl-a.>h has been dissolved; 
shake It, and lei it stand a while to sonk. Th.en nnse it well 
in c(,ld water, two or thret; tiim^s. 11 it still siiudls of the 
f)rmer contents, sr,ak it in more pearl-ash water, (with the 
addition of a little lime,) or in more lye. 



('LI:AM.\(. (TT (;LASS.— Having washed your cut 
glass artielcP, and let ihein rest till thfuoughly dry, rub then 



CLEANING LOOKLN(;-(;l.ASSKS. — Fust wash the 
glass all over with clean luke-warm soap-suds and a sponge. 
When dry, rub it bright with a buckskin and a little j)repared 
chalk, linely powdered. l''inish with a silk lian.lk«^rehief 

'i'liis is also an exc.dlent way to clean the inside o{ windows; 
it makes the glass beautituliy clear. 

Another V( rv good way of cleanii'g a mirror, is to wash it 
iiist uiiii .J s]>oiige and cold water, and afterwards witfi a soft 



212 



t TI E II TJ S E BO K. 



fiannol dipped in whisky or spirits of wine, wiiicli will effcct- 
iialiy n'liiovc from it all smf-ars and fly-marks. T\wx\, huvinrr 
vvijKMl it dry with a Hufl linen cloth, nib over it with a soft 
flannc I a little j)o\vder-!)!ue, or else tine whitintr. J,(>t it rest a 
while, and then rub it oiT with a silk handkerchief. 

In cleanin^r iookinn--irlasses, take care that no moisture 
touches the nihiinrr „f the frame. To ch'an a burnished nilt 
frame, nothino; is better than to (ny over it liuhtly with bits 
of soft cotton wool, or a piece of the inside of new wadditur- 
havini. Urst dusted it with a f( athcr brush. 

A maho<rn„y fnini(> should be iirst well dust.'d, and the^n 
<deaned with a flaniud dipped in sweet r.il ; usino- a small brush 
for tho carvinn-s, if there are any, and fmisliin-r with a silk 
handk<Tchj( f. The frame should be cleaned previously to the 
<rbi>s. 



TO cm: AX (;ILT I. A MPS, (HWDKLIKKS, (ax. 

I>I-K-nRA\('[!HS.<tr-._IIavin.nrst wiped off the dust tVom 
'i'' arlicbs to be cbsnu.j, make a s!ro„^ Mid> of t!,,. tbi.'^! u hif,^ 
soap (palui snap will do) ami soft luke-warm water, and, ,l,p. 
pill- into it a clean sponrr,-. wash carefully every part of the 
LnbUmr. Then, with a small soft brush, (a to.,th-brush, f,r 
instance.) .^r,. lijjhtly into all the hollows, crevices, and most 
delicate pans of th,> we^k with the soap-^uds, takinir ea.re not 
to rub hard. When you find iha* the wat.>r has become dirty, 

n place it with (dean suds. Fmish by dryini^r the artudes with 

an old silk handkcr(diief. 

loless voiir servants are nnusuall v carrful. ,ln n-.t mtnist 

this wr.rk to them, lest they break off so,ne of the nnnute r,rna- 

*ii' n!>, (.r rnh s., Ii.ird ,is to defiee ih.' 'niduKT, 

'i'his nuwlr of cleauiincr will not succeed with ihe frames of 

pictures or mirrors. For them there id no safe remedy, when 



FURNITURE, ETC. 



213 



they are soiled and discoloured, but to have them newly 

gilt. 

(;handeUers should be dusted at least once a week, (or 
oftener if necessary,) with one of those long-handled, soft lea- 
ther brushes made tor such piirposes. Grt^.at care is retpiisite 
in dusting them, ((^ven in this manner.) as the drops and other 
ornaments must he touched with the utmost delicacy. This 
work, also, sliould not be intrusted to any but the most careful 
domestics. 

Bronzed chandeliers, lamps, ^'c, should hv merely dusted 
with a f( alher brush or with a soft cloth. Washing them will 
take oil the bronzing. 



(T.EANLX(J KNIVES AND FORKS.— It is an exc. llent 
%vay to have, at dinner-time, on a side-table, a deep, tall, ja])aimed 
or j)ainted mug or can, filled with suffuuent hot water to cover 
tiie blades of the knives and torks, but not enough to rovicli to 
their handles, wbi<"h tlu' hot water would split or loosen. As 
the plates are taken fr-m tise t;dde, tin- servant who waits 
bhoubl at onee stand the knives and forks uprintit (Idade down- 
wards) in this vess. I of warm w;it( r, which will prevent the 
grease Ifein drying on them, and make them very easy to wash 
when dinner is over. Afterwards, bt them be carried .)Ut m 
the knib-basket, whi(di should be lined with tin. Then wa>h 
them with water, warm, but not hot, and a soft (doth ; and wip(^ 
them dry on a (d(>an towel, always turning tlu' back or dull 
edcre towards your thumb. IJesldes the washing, as many as 
are wanted f )r use -.iK.uld be (deaned, previous to ev<ry nieai, 
un a Ijoar.l w wU bnck-dusl; otlierwi^e tiny \m11 nc ilbrr be 

hriMit nor sbarji. 

The knife-board should be of soft pine, t^ree from knots, five 
or SIX btl lonn, -diid made with standers or b-et at the ends, 



214 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



like a brnoh. It will last inuch lonjrer if th<- part most usod 
is covcnMl with leather. A yard is a (rooil iiti^lit for a knife- 
board. At one end have' a sina]| hex, to eontain the l(>ath(>rs 
brieks, fork-sticks, A^e. WhaJ, is ealled Hath brick is tlie 
proper se-rt for eleaninir knives; it is wiutish and soft. Rub 
tlie brick up and down on the hoard till yen bav(^ imt of! a suf- 
ficiency of powder; or you may take a brick in each hand and 
rub them totrether. Then, takinjr one knile at a tune, hold the 
h.uidle firmly in your hand, and with a ipiiid; motion rub the 
blade (on both sides) in the brick-drist, (akino; care not to h.ar 
on too hard, lest you break it. IJy practice, you may learn to 
clean two knives at once, holdinir otw in each hand, back to 
i>a(dw As you <lo them, lay them aside till ycui are ready to 
wipe them oil'. Replenish tl)e board with fresh brick-dust as 
yuu ^o on. When they are ail ruhl)(>d briirht, wipe o(T the 
knives with a clean cbjth, and put them into your kinte-box, 
which should he {)reviously wi},ed out (piite clean. If you 
have steel forks, ru!) their hacks (»n the brick-dust boanl till 
thry are v.ry iiriirht. ]iave by \<ui a small flat slirk oi' ^nue 
wood, shaj.ed like a knifo-bladr, about the IvwnU of your mid- 
dle linir.'r, and covered with leather. Dip it into the bnck-dnst, 
and rub it between the pron«Ts of tlu' forks, to clean and briir'iien 
thrm. Then wipe them carefully with y.air knifr-cloih, stick- 
m<r the forks tiirough its corners, to ml out adl the bnck-dust 
from between the pronn-s. 

Another way to clean st(>eHV.rks is, to keep always besid.? 
tho knife-board a box or a small ki'ir, Idled with clmpprd liay 
or straw a d tine sand, m alternate la.yofs. pressed down vorv 
Irard, a.nd havinir sand mi\rd uiti. hnck-diisi at tlio tM-,. The 
•'"fitrnt^ mu>l all i»r pa.k.d c1m>, | y, ;,„(! K-, i,( ,!;,,,,[, by occa- 
sional wettinir. I>|,uiur,. the sto( 1 p-art <>\ iho f )rks a frw tim. s 
into this; then wipe them aRcrwards with a clean cloth, 



F U RN IT U RE, ETC. 



215 



(inserting the corner between the prongs,) and then polish them 
with the fork-stick, wlihout bnck-dust. 

Handles of ebony should be cleaned with a soft cloth dipped 
iu a little sweet oil ; and after nesting a while with the oil on 
them, let them he well wiped with a chran tow( 1. Ivory or 
bone handles ought to be washed with a soaped tlannc 1 and 
lukewarm w.iter, and then wiped with a dry tow<d. To pre- 
serv(^ or reston; their whiteness, soak them (U'casionally in 
alum-water that has been boiled and then grown cold. Let 
th( in lie for an hour in a vessel of this ahim-water. Then take 
tiiem (Mjt, and hrush them well with a small lirush, (a tooth- 
brusli will do,) aiul afterwards take a (dean linen towel, dip it 
in c(dd v\at(r, s.jueeze it out, and, whih; wet, wrap it round thti 
handles, having them in it to dry gradually; as, if dried too 
fast o\it (..f the alum-water, they will be injured. If properly 
managed, this })rocess will make them very white. 

To keep knives and forks in good order, when not in conti- 
nual use, and to restore them when fund rusty, have them well 
ell aned, and thoi! rub the stool part w ith a flannel dipped in 
sweet oil, or in melted mutton suet. la t tiu'ni rest sev« rid 
hours; then dust them all over Willi hnely powderfMl tpiiid^- 
lime, tied up in a thin muslin bag. In two or three days, wipe 
olf tlu! (d! and lime; rub them with a bu(d;skin or shammy 
leather; wraj) them hrst in green baize, and then an outside 
c(A-ering oi" coars(} brown paper, and put them away. They 
should always be kept in a dry place. 

Another way of cleaning krdves and forks is, after washing 
the blades in warm (but not hot) water, and wiping them dry, 
to rub them lightly over with powdered rotten-sioiu; wet to .i 
paste with a little cold water. Let it dry on; and then wipe 
it olV, and polish tiiem with a clean cloth. It is said they will 
last much lunger if cleaned in this manner than in the usual 



210 



THK HOUSE BOOK. 



way of rubbiiifr tiiem on a board uitb brick-dust; but as it will 
not keep tl-.e knives sharp, t\wy must be freciuently whetted on 
a knilc steel, or on a wlietsttnie. 



TO CLEAN FIiM-:-IR()\N.-Mix together a tea-spnonful 
"1" oil i,i vitriol, a tabb^-spoontul of sweet oil, and half a pint 
ot sj)!rits of turpentine; piit tiiein into a bottle, and cork it 
tightly. \Mien you want to use it, mix this li(iuid with sulli- 
vivui hnely-powdcrcd rotten-stone to make a snft paste; and 
Willi a coar.-f woollen eloth rulj it r.u yoiir shovel, tonos i^.d-o- 
Kr., or on the bars of your (rrate if you wish to britrhtcn tin'm. 
Ilaviun- rubbrd it on well, wipe it olfwith a soft cloth of Iukmi 
<»r cotton, and then polish with dry rott.^n-sione and a piee.; of 
IcalluM'. 

Anoilher way to clean fire-irons is to rub them with a piece 
of li.umcl di})ped first m oil, and then in emery powder of tlse 
quality called \u. 'J. Ruh hard and .juick, and tin n polish 
Willi a leather and some powdered rotten-ston{\ 

\ "u r-an eit ornery j>owder at the ir^n -t^K s nr at the paint 
^t.Te., 'Viw cwarse ,s he.l f.r .ome purposo, the hue lor 
(>ihers. 



in.A(:Kl\(; for STOVI-:S.~Take half a pound nf 
ld.uk ha.l finely pow.lered, and (K- make it stiek) mix with it 
the whites of three e^r^rs w.dl hvAlm ; then dilute it with sour 
'"'crnr porter till 11 becomes about as thm as shoe-blackir.ir-. 
Havmn- stirred ,t well, set it over hot coals, an.l let it simmer 
I'-r twenty miimtes. When cold, pour it into a st,,ne jna. .-nrk 
't tiuhtly, and keep it f,r use. It muM be rubbed <a. the st.^ve 
^^ nh a soft bru^h, and the.: poll. bed olf ,|uickly with a dean bar,l 
iTush, as you would a boot. It should be put on when the 
stove IS cold, fii-st removinc. the ashes, and then wiping oH" all 



FTTRMTURE, V.Tr, 



217 



the dnst witli a cloth. Till it is fjuite dnj do not sweep the 
hearth or replenish the fire. 

You may buy at tiie stores where stoves and nrrates are sold, 
or at the paint-stores, an excellent black varnish to he put on 
with a larcre bristle brush when the iron is cold. No dust or 
ashes must he allowed to fret to it till th(i varnish is perfectly 
dry; otherwise you will liave to do it all over af^ain. Wash 
the brush afterwards, in spirits of turpentine, and then in 
warm water. 



TO PREVKNT FIRE IRONS FROM RUSTIN(i.— 

When you are froinir to put your tire; irons away for the sum- 
mer, have ready some fresh mutton suet melted; and while 
hot, smear it all (n-er the irons. Next dredire or sprinkle thetn 
well with unslackcd lime, powdered and xuhX uj) in a thm 
muslin racr. Then wrap them tiorhtly all over in thick brown 
paper, so as entirely to exrlude the air, securing; the paper with 
twine. Keep them in a dry place; and previous to atrain 
fakintr 'hem into use, wipe them clean, \u<\ with obi llannel 
and then with soft rags. 



TO TAKE RUST OUT OF STEEE.— Rub the steel 

well with a piece of flannel dipped in sweet oil. Then cover 
it with slacked lime, put it into a dry place, and let it rest for 
two days. Afterwards wipe it clean, and then rut) on some 
whitinfr finely powdered. Finish with dry whiting and a 
Imckskin. 

Rust may also Ix^ removed from ^^teel by rnbbinir on a mix- 
ture ot' sweet oil a.nd emery laid on with ;i bristle brush, or 
with a bit of spon^■y n;-''f''^''^ ^od sj)lit fine; at tfie end. Eet the 
stefd rest m the enn-ry for two or three days, then wipe it otT. 



218 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



F !' R N IT r R ^% KIC, 



219 



POLISHED IRON.— Polislied iron work may be preserved 
from rust by o-cnwr iKrhlly over it w'lih copal varnisli, mi^cd 
with nearly an equal <|iraiitity of ypirits of turpeMtiiie, and as 
rmicli i^weet oil as will ir'ivo the niixlure a little i^reasiiiess. 
Lay on this mixture with a bristle l)riish, {which must after- 
wards be washed directly in warm water,) and see that no dust 
or ashes gels to it wiiile dryiiijr. The varnish may be obtained 
from a paint-shop or from a chair-maker''s. 



TO CLEAN BRASS.— Dissolve in a j-int of soft water nn 
ounce of oxalic acid, (wtiich is poisonous and should be w^dl 
taken care of,) and keep it m a bottle labelled " Poison." 
Always shake it well before usinir it. Kub it on the brass with 
a liannel, and then tuke a dry flannel to polish it. Use this 
solution twice a w(>ek, and next day have ready some pulve- 
rized rotten-stone, sifted throuj^h a muslin rag, and mixed with 
oil r)f turpentine, so as to be litjuid. Kub this on with a buck- 
skin, let it rest ten minutes, and then wipe it otT wiih a 
cloth. 

Brass ^leaned in this manner looks lieaiilifully. 

For cleaninir l)rass»'s helonuirm to rnahoi^any furniture, either 
powdered whitinfj^ or Rrra}>ed rotten-stone mixed with sweet 
oil, and rubbed on with a buckskin, is excellent. Let it rest a 
little while, and then wipe it well olf, secmfr that none of the, 
mixture lodsres in the hollows of tlie brass, in cb^aninir brass 
handles, hold the handle firmly with one hand, uhiie you clean 
with tiie other, otherwise the handles will soon beeoine looseutxl 
by the unsteadiness of" the friction. Lay underneatii an old 
newspap(>r, to catch tln^ dropjun^s. 

Oxalic a(!id bem^ poisonous, care must he taken thai nono 
of the li(juid rrets into the eyes, when us(;d lor ruhbiiir. Should 
this by any accident hapjien, immediately {.vet a !>i)v\ ! Inii t(j 



the brim of cold water, and hold the eyes open in it, till the 
pain abates; repeatintr it at intervals durinfr the day, 

lloldm^r the eyt^s open in C(dd water will frequently relieve 
them from ■,\i\ (■j!<j!;ine sj)ark, or a mote, or partiide of any sub- 
stance that has flown in accidentally. Ey(>-oias3es for tliis 
purpose are to be obtained at the apothecaries'. 

To remove the stain of oxalic acid from a dr(^SR, rub the spot 
with a spontre dipped in hartshorn diluted with a little water; 
this will cause it almost inmiediately to disappear. 



CLEANING STAIR-RODS.—Pulveri/e some rotten-stone, 
and when the powder is made very fne, mix it with sweet oil. 
Then, with a woollen cloth, rub it well on each stair-rod. 
Polish with a soft buckskin, on which must be rubbed a little 
(irt/ rotten-stone finely powdered. Any other brass may be 
cleaned to advantjjcre m this manner. 



CLEAMNli A BRASS KE1"rLE.~A brass, bell-metal, 
(.T cfspper kettle sliouh.l always he rleaiit'd iinmediutrly alter 
rismir- Even when not used, it will r»'quire .K-easional ch-aninir ; 
ntfierwise it will collect rust or verditrrease, which is a stronff 
j)oison. 

To clean it pro])erly, after washinor it out with a cloth and 
warm water, put into the kettle a lartj^e tea-cupful of vine!.rar, 
and a larcre tea-spoonful (desalt, and hano; it over the fire. Let 
it jret quite warm ; and then take it olf, dip m a (dean rajr, ;uid 
wash the whole inside of the kettle tliorourrhly with the. salt 
and vinf^rar; after which, wash it well with warm water. 
Next, take wood-ashes and clean raijs, .oul scour it well. 
Afterwards, wash it with hot soap-suds, and finish, by rinsinjr 
it with cold water, and wipin{_f it w ith a dry clotli, l)oth inside 
and out. 






220 



THE no USE BOOK. 



These kettles should he kept always clean, that they may be 
ready for use at any time they are wanted. iSo also sliould 
every vessel of brass or copper. 



PORCELAIN OR ENAMKLLKI) KKTTLES.—'l'hese 

kettles, which are of cast iron, lined all through with a coating' 
of coarse white china, have now (in all places where they can 
be procured) superseded the use of bell-metal and brass for 
presf rvinir and j)ickling, and for many nice })urposes. Tiny 
are more easily kept clean than any other vessels for cookinir, 
and of course preclude all danger of rust from liquids or acids. 
Those of (ferman manufacture are the best. It is well in every 
kitchen, to have several of these excellent utensils of dilfereiit 
Bizes, from a large preserving kettle down to a small saucepan. 
Great care must be taken, not to have a fierce blaze under 
them, or round them. Tliis, hovv^ever, is not necessary in tiiat 
sort of cooking for which tiiey are particularly useful. To 
guard against any accidciua! dangr-r of tlie porcelain cracking 
by too hut a lire, it is wrii \<> tnui^htu thrin (;is the cookh caii 
it) as soon as they are br(iUijlit home from the shop. For this 
purpose, lirsl wash your kettle well in warm watt^r. Tiien fill 
it with etpial quantities of bran and cold water, set it over a 
moderate fire, and let it continu(^ on it half an hour or more after 
the mixture has come to a boil. 'I'hen take the kettle o!f the fire, 
and let it siand till the water is cold. 'I'hrow out this watt^r, 
and repeat the process with fresh bran ; and after it has boiled 
8uffici(mt!y, take it oO', and let it stand till next day. After 
which, throw fuit the bran, and wash the kettle well with clear 
warm water, and it will be fit tor use. 

Always litter usin<r the k<"tt!e for nreservintr or nieklinc", orivfi 
it a boiling with wood-ashes atsd water, and then wash it clean. 

It is said thai any articles of new china or eaitlien are 



FJ1RN1TURE, s:TC. 



221 



rendered less liable to break, ii", previous to using them, they 
are boile<l, as above, in bran-water, which is considered to 
strengthen the glazing. 

TEA-KFyrn.ES.— A tea-kettle should on no account be 

used for any other piiri)ose than for boiling water. Some cooks ^ 
have a foolish practice of always boiling their })otatoes in the 
tea-kettle. Lrt this \ni positividy forbidden, as it will give a 
peculiar and disagreeable taste to the tea-water that is boiled 
in it afterwanls. The tea-kettle should be washed out every 
day. to remove the s. diment .iepositiMl in it by the water, if 
this is neglected, ii will become coated on the inside with a 
sort of dirty fur. Once a tortmght, at least, the kettle should 
hv thoroughly cleaned, by scouring it first with sand or wood- 
ashes, and tlu-n with soap-su.ls ; rinsing it olT with cold water, 

and wiping it dry. 

In boili.ig a kettle, care must be taken to put on the lid 
cU'srJy. so as not to leave the smallest crevice. If th(> li.l is in 
,n, hru^l hruk n or hrut. ii is best to irol a new on^ ; otherwise 
Ihe witer is liable \. hv smoked iual retuier.'d unht lor use, 
CommnnicatinLr n. most disagiveable taste to the tea. 

See tlrat the water is aclually boiling hard at th<' time it is 
poured on the tea; otherwise it will not draw out the strength, 
■!,nd the tea will taste v^cak and flat, however large the (juantity 
j„, ,,Uo the i.ot, which also should be previously scalded twice. 

We do no't recommeiul c.pper tea-kettles. The tin lining 
soon b.>gins to wear (^tT; an.l, if not renewed immediately, the 
...jq.er will render the wat(>r extremely unwholesom.', and the 
te. aluu^st poisonous. To .et on a chafing-<iish or furn.ce, 
^vhen tb, lea w made in the parlnur, a bright block tin kettlo 

w ill h.ok suiheieutlv uell. 

il y.x use an urn, the iuuter nni.t 1m put mto the fire .bout 

lU* 



222 



THE iiOliSf. IHJOK. 



FlMiMTrRE, LTC, 



223 



a quarter of an liour bciore Ua, and nut Vdkvn out till it in red- 
hot. Then lift it with tliu tongs, -.md slip it into the eylmdor; 
the urn hein^r previously filled witii hot water I'roin a boilinir 
kettle. Tlie inside of tlu- urn (ineiutlinj^- that ol the lid) should 
be washed out every day, and the outside \vi])ed with a s(.ft eloth. 

i 



TO WA.SIl THA-TIIlNCiS.—For this purpose iiave a lar^rc 
tin or earthen i)an, with vvarin water, and a clean, tiiick, soft 
towel, a yard iouM ; huekahaek is best for this j)urj)ose. Put 
the saucers hrst mlo the water, wash them round in it, ;isui then 
take them out, one l)y one, and turn tiieni up to dram alom- the 
bide of the japanne.l waiter. Do llie same with the cups. 
Then wipe iliem all very dry. 

\ ou will find it convi^nitnt to have near yon, all tlie time, a 
liot k*;ttle, for th<> purposi; of replenishin(r the pan witli clean 
warm water when neeessary : and you may probably rLn|uiro 
two towels. 

When the crram-Ju^r is rmpty, till it with h<.t water, and It t 
it stand till you Ikiv.- dun.j ihu cup.-.; thcii wa.^h n. 

Having ciniph tcly rrnptird the {,a-p.,t, (and. saved the tea- 
leavrs in ajar, h)r the purpose of strewmcr (^n the carpels when 
about 10 sweep them,) till it with hot water, and let it stand a 
while, then rinse; it round, ponr out the watt r, and wipe the 



outside. If any te.i-h aves are allowed t 



') remain m it, thry 



will injure the taste (dthe Mt\t tea. 

11 tlie tea-thin<is are numerou.s, you wij] re(piir(> clean warm 
water for the small }dates, <S.c. lie <'arelu! to wash .very article 
clean, an.l to wipe it dry, so ;,s to leave iiu sthdunoss. 

Hefore liirowiii;/ out the d,rlv watrr, put vnr h.iiid .l.o,vn t,, 
tho bottom of the p:iu, to J. .! it anv (,.a-.po.,„. ao' o-mainiu.. 
thero. Tea-sp.H.ns afv .,Uen luil I) being coclesslv ih/usvu 
out with tlie c!ip-\v;ifrr. 



In washing tea-things, it is a great saving of the hands to 
use a little cup-swab or m(»p, such as are made? by the society 
f Shakers, and are to be obtained wherever their wares are 

Id. 'leaking one of these l)y the liandle in your right hand, 
and dipping the vvoolh n or thrum end into the water, you can 
wasli the things very cb an while holding them at the K'i\\:n 
between the thumb and ting(T of your hd\ hand. 



(J 
so 



WASlllMi PLATKS AND DISIIKS, (^c.—rnb ss th. re 
is a re«ni!ar boiler kept always on the kitchen fire, the cook 
should bang on a. large pot oi cle.m water at the tun" (d ev^ ry 
meal, as soon as she has sent in the dishes f )r tlu^ table, that 
it may be h^t when she is ready to wash them. i/arge doep 
baskets, lined with tin, are very convenient for the purpose of 
r(M-eivini2- t!ie dirty plates to be carrit d into the kitchen, ('on- 
veyed in this manner, they are mucii less liable to be bnd.en 
tlian \^ben p.h (i on a tray or waiter: particularly if tiny are to 
be takin di wn st-iirs. 

For di-^b-UiiMiiiiLf there siinuld bo tvv.^ tub>,onr uf h-^t water 
and (lie of cold; aibo t\\ o largo cloth, and a tiiud-. (dean tow I. 
A wooden plate-rack, to stand them in, separately, whib- draoi- 
inL^ i^ '^ gre;it convenience; otherwise they are geiK rally 
drained by laying them biittom ujuvards, one a little ^iver the 
otiier, in t!ie sink, whifdi should p'reviously he washed dnwn, 
that it nuiy be tpiitc (dean f ^r the purpose. \ nless tlie di>li- 
vvati r is verv hot, the grease will not come oil vvtdl, and the 
things will look Muenred an«l feel sticky. Put the {dates into 
the tub of hot wat. r. and uasb 'di- in iirst, usiug tb.e di>!i-cl(.th 
to eacd), ;nid putting ea<di as you do it int(j the Uil; ot cidd w .il-r 
to rinse. \N hen ihe w.itt r becomes too grea<\ . peui" i^ ^^i'' '"'i 



[I'plt ni-h v\ lib U 



e-!i 



p.. lore \^)U \^a^dl I'll' dishes auil sauce- 



boats, ';rr;-!pe r iV inan ibeni will) a knit"' ;;!1 tic ihickest ol the 



224 



THE HOUSE BOOK, 



j^rrcase into a dee\) plate, or somethinjT of tlie sort, from which 
yoi! can transfix it afterwards to the recoptacle for the soap-fat. 

While rinsinfT ih(^ tliinjrs in coh]i water, instead of your hare 
liand use a eh'an eloth that is (juit(^ free from urease. Then, 
havin;": drairitMl them well, wipe tluMn dry with a clean ihiek 
luw( !, and place them on the dresser. 

IVrevious towashinfT tiie dishes, scrape off with a knife what- 
ever ma.y adhere to the inside of tiie pots, })ans, roasters, «\:c,, 
that have been used in cookino ttie dinner; and then j)our liut 
wat( r into all these ntensils, lettinir them stand to soak while 
you are doino" the other tiiino;s. Afterwards, wash them eut 
well Mitli fresh hot water and the dish-cloth; rinse them with 
cold v.ater, and wipe the inside perfectly dry with a clean towel, 
whiclKifthey Iravi^ been properly done, will not he soiled darin|T 
the prr.cess. The outside of each should also he washed and 
w iped. The bars of the oridiron should first he well scraped, 
til* n wiped with a (ii>!i-<deth dipptd in hot water; afterwards 
wilh cwld waif r, and (lien w i])ed di'y. 



!M IMFV1.\(,* SL()1>-I5l CKKTS, J AI.'S, ,^< .— T<, r* ine.ve 

ary pecujiir or unpleasant smell from sloj-.-lnickets, jars, or 
other uteiiMls, se;d(l tliem \\ ith stronir hot lye. fillinn them u[) 
^" 'Ik' top, ;ind !(^tt!n;j tlu' lye remain in the vess<d till cold. 
Repeal the scaldiiio- uith lye, if necessary. Then fill them up 
with Ci'ld water, let tlit>tn stand all day in the open air, and 
th» n wash tlieai clean and wipe thein dry. 

Or v u may put the vessel ha.ll" full of wo'od-ashes, and fill 
ii up with h;a!intj watir. I,et it -taiid till cold; tlu n tlir<>w 
(.mO i!i<' a^iif -^. and ri jm at the preecs'^ w ith fresh aNhes a.ii<l let 
wall r, wa.sliiii'i- it elcan aJP i\vard>. 

Alti r this process, it' the vrssrl is of «»tonr-wnro. earfhm. or 
*"liiua. t;HU It on its '^jdr and evpMse i! a win' ■ t.' ih" h 't sun. 



FURNITUUK, KTC. 



225 



If it is of wood (^r tin, fill it witli cold water, and stand it all 

day in the air. 

The best and most durable buckets are those of tin, painted 
wliite on the insid(^ and ^rreen (or any other colour) outside. 
All tin buckets should have covers. 



TO REMOVE THE TASTE OF ROSIN FROM NEW 
TIN.— Take a hot live coal from a wood fire, or a piect^ of 
burninfj- charcoal. Put the coal into the tin vessel, and shake 
it about a while. Repeat this, (if necessary,) with a fresh coal 
each time. Then wash out tlie vessel with warm water. 

Or boil in the tin some pot-ash melted in water. Afterwards 
w^ash out tlie vessel, and boil plain water in it. 



TO REMOVE THE TASTE OK NEW' WOOD.— A new 

kef, churn, bucket, or other woodi^n vessel will tronerally com- 
muiiicate a disatrreeahle taste to any thimj; that is j)ut into it, 
partu'ulariy it (d" cedar. To prevent this inconvenience, first 
scald the vev^cl w eU With hoiliuu water, letliuLT lhe water 
remain in it uli Cf)h.l. 'I'lien. dissolve some pearl-ash oj pot-asli 
in lukt-warm water, addin<j a little bit of lime to it, and wash 
the inside of the vessel well with this solution. lU-peat it, it 
necessary. Afterwards scald it w< 11 with plain hot water, and 
rmse it with cold before you use it. 

If you cannot conveniently oht.iin pf)t-ash or pearl-ash, you 
may season a n<'W wooden vessil by scaldintr it repeatedly 
with hot lye, and afterwards with boilintr water; hut this 
method, thouuh tVecpiently successful, is less certain than tliG 

fnniirr. 

Llem^ils of oak are far prederahle to thoso nt cdar. 
Wooden vessels should n.v. r i)e alh^wed lo stand out of 
!iiih-s tin y are lull. If eiii})!y. lhe sun and air will 



1 ; I • o r s . 



226 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



shrink the staves, open t))e seams, and hjosen the hoops and 

hottonis, sc* that they wil! h-uk vvjicii used. 



TO SWHCTKN AN OLD CASK.—Havincr first sealded 
it well with hdilinn \vat< r, (lettin«( the water stan(i in it tiil 
cold,) till it with cold water, and throw in a lar^-e ([uanliiy of 
live eoals iron! a wood fire, jeavinjr tlie ca^df uneovered. Uy 
rejx-atmo; this, the eask may be made perhf^tly sw(un, proviihd 
tinit it has at no time eontamed hsh. A fish-harrf 1 ean tu^ver 
be used i;,)r any otiier pnrpose, as it is impossihh^. to ex{)fd the 
last.' and smell ol' the, hslu 

Seahimo- an ohl eask repeatedly in stronir lye, and thr^n with 
elrar water, will irenerally sweeten it. So will hoilincr water 
in whicli pot-ash and lime hav(i been dissolved. 

Steond-hand casks or keas can frrcjuently be purehased at a 
^roeery or li.pior store; and if they have eontauuui notiiinrr 
tha.t ean ^riv(! them a .lisa<rreeable taste, and are ti^ht and in 
jrood order, they are preferable, for jnany purposes, to those that 
are new. 

Another way to sweeten a eask, is to nndt some brim- 
stone, and dip itiio It a piee..- of eoarse linen eloth. Win n 
cold, take a slij) of tiie brimstone eloth abont an ineh broad, 
and hve or six inehes lono-, and liavinir set hre to on(- end. put 
n m at the l)unLr-h.de; fisteninir the other end undertlu' burej-, 
vvhndi must be drivem ni ti^rht. The head of the eask nniM h« 
on, that all the vapour of the sulphur may e^uiUnue insid,.. 
I.''t It renuiin a few hours—then open the cask, and expos(> it 
to the tdr. 



\ 



227 



THE KITCHEN 



KKMARKS. 

As it is a self-evident truth that much of tin; comfort of a 
family depends on the kitehen, it is (d' jrreat importance that 
th" kilclien ilsilf should be eomfortalile, and well supplied 
Mill! every thincr that is necessary for eiiablinir the dome^ties 
to perl"orin tielr woik prop, rly and expeditiously. Few ffood 
servants (ro<,ks partieularly) are saUsiied to remain lon^r m a 
place where tlu^y are dimied these advantan:es. There are 
indortunately too many hmises where (while nmch expense is 
lavished (m the drawlnn-rcoms or {.arlours) the kitchen is hare 
and eomh.rtless in Us aspect, and seanlily suppli.'d with the 
utensils indispensahie to the elTieient exeeution of its business. 
At the sanu; time, a iinnd hous.'keeper will endeavour to 
hu]>ress on her doninstir. thr necessity of takin;r <-are (,f all the 
anichs provided for the ("a>V( nient performance .d llie^r work, 
by k.^epiu^ theui clean, unbroken, and in iheir ivspi etive places. 
Iidess sh(> 1=; hlest witli exc(llent servants, she will hnd 
i„rs( If unable teMlep( ml upon them, in this or in any other part 
,,f iheir duly, without freipient personal inspeeti.ai from herselt. 
Vvw hou-;es ean rm on well usiless tlu> mistress or her repr(;- 
sentative visits the kitchen at least once (^very day, and that 
not always at the same hour. 

In lMn!adelpiiia,the lar^-. st assortment of household articles 
is to he found at Ihe exlen>ive stores .d"(iideon ('ox. Nos. .'k'hO 
and :V.i: on th.' north side of Market street, just below Ninth. 
'|\, la.lies preparing lor honsek(>epim^, we particularly recom- 
mend a visit to this lar;je and well-arran<^ed establishment. 



22ft 



TITi: HOTTSK BOOK. 



KITCHEN F V R \ I F T K E . 



229 



:1 



where tlu y will he ahlc to supply iheinselves at onre w ith all 
the utensils necessary for d(nn<r the work ui' d laimly, ju its 
various ticjjartiiiorits ; and with many thirsjrs of wliosc existence 
they wer<^ not perhaps previously aware, hut whose utility and 
convenience they will ininiediately perceive. 



KITCHEN FirUNniiRE.— In furnishincr a kitchen, we 
do not recommend that the floor hv. <'overed with a w^oollen 
carj.et, wliether woV( ii ot^ yarn or of strij)s of cloth. Tlie oroase 
that sue!) a carp<4 cannot fail to imhihc in a })lar.' where cook- 
injr is don(\ is srddom attended to immediately, and {)er}iaps 
not at all; and its stickiness collects and retains the dust, '['lu; 
consequence is, that the carpet (hr'sid.\s lookinu; very dirty) 
S(.r-n ac'piires a disirustino; and unwholesome snu'll, wiiich 
jxrvach'S the atniospdicrc of tlie whole apartment. As it is far 
more dithcult to swcej) than a smooth floor, it is in all prohahi- 
lity neither swept sm cften nor so thoroundily as cleanlin<^ss 
Te(|uires; and (produced hy its heat, o-rease, and dirt) cock- 
Teaches not nnfrefjiieii'ly a.-cuinnlate round the .does and 
corners -d'a kit.dien carpi t. Aiso, all kitfdien floors should j)e 
washed a! least oncu a week in winter, and twice a W(( k in 
summer. The l)esf coverintr tor a kitclu^n (as wo hav<' said 
before) is a cf.arse. thick, unti(.rured (ai-cloth, painted all over 
(^^ (AW colour, (f )r instance, dark red, hlue, or hrown,) a.nd made 
to fit exactly. 'I'his is a carpet that has the advanta(r(', of hcimr 
cool iu summer and warm and dry in winter; as it etfectualiy 
covers the cracks of the flour, and excludes all (h\m])n(>ss : and 
it reijuires no scnihl)in<r; noijiino- more hr'inn- mc(m ssarv than 
to wash it otFv. itli cnhl water and a clolli. As a <uhstilu!e tor 
an oil-cloth, the floor may he paint( d all over willi s. vera! cirats 
nf r-ommon jiaint ; vejhav ochre ix uil'- the (duapt st. hut sl.it*- 
colour the \h<\. If the \\,u-T i : n^cd ft.,- sr, o :it"i< r p,ani!ni«r. ihe 



paint (nf»t heinfr suflicicMitly hardened and incorporat<'d with the 
surf ICC: of the wood) will rub or scale ofl'. It is also well to 
paint the kitchen stairs and passa<re. We do not advise oil- 
cloth for any stair-ca.se, as its heinfr somewh.it sli))])ery may 
cause persons to fall down, and not only hurt themscdvi^s, hut 
break what they are carryin<^r. On a level surface, however, 
there is no danj^er of slipping on an oil-cloth. 

There should he a lar»Te, kitchen table-, (dii(dly f'T the usc^ of 
the cook; and a smaller one for the domestics to sit round of 
an eveninn-. If you have an ironing-hoard in t.lu^ kitchen, it is 
hest to have it fastened against the wall, (under the windows,) 
to he raised and let down with hino-es, and, when wante*! f^r 
use, supi)orted by hracket-lenrs that can he drawn out from 
ui\derneath. Th<>se are v(Ty (Convenient; as, when not in use, 
they occuj>y little or no S])ace. We have seen r^xccdhaU 
kitchen settles, larf^e enouirh to seat four persons, and haviner 
the aitpearance of a hio;h-hack(>d S(Ht;^e. 'I'lie hack can, when 
necessa.ry, be extenih'd outwards, so as to f rm an ironin'j-t;d)h' ; 
am! ne.der the sc;U ao dra\^•er■^ t'l coii1:!i!i the iroiupn;-h!a!d\t t, \(', 

If you iiav(^ your ironinir done in the kit(di(n, it will he well 
on ironin'jr days (particularly in winter, when the saslu^s are 
(dosed) to avoid havinir any thinir cooked th'.it causes a power- 
ful smell. Also, to have no coAVm' roust<'d or batter c;\kes haktMl 
on that mornin<r. '1'Ih^ ch^an clothes will heciame so saturat. <1 
with the odfuir of these thinirs, that tln^y will retain it even after 
h( inn- put away in the drawers. A boiled dinner i^ ev( ry way 
most convenient tor irornn<x days. 

There should be, in a w<dl furnished kit(dien. half ;i do/en 
common <diairs, two low ou' s, and two or three w ooflt n stooh 
or crickc'ts. A (du a.p r.xdvituj-'drair would no <|;>nht })e c<!iisi- 
dered a irfeat comtbrt for the cook to r(-st in, after she has done 

her v,'ork. 

30 



230 



THE no USE BOOK. 



KITCHEN lURNlTFRE. 



231 



» 



' 5 i 



A ohoap and convenient kitchen foot-stool may be made, by 
layinfT too-eilier four bricks, (two at the bottom, and two at the 
top,) and keepinjr them firm, by ftistening tifrhtly round them 
some stronjr tape or listirifr. Then cover t!ie wliole block of 
bricks, by sewing on it some coarse tow linen, and afterwards^ 
})iit on the top a thicker layer of shavings, straw, or southern 
moss, ])r('S8e(! down hard, lik(3 the stufling of a pincusliion. 
Thru st'W over the whole an outer coverintr of coarse cartietinfr. 
\\ lien completed, it will be a substantial and useful t'ootstool, 
noi easily overset. 

We do not recommend a lookincr-glass, as it is a tem|)tation 
I r th(! domestics to comb or arrange their iiair in the kitchen. 
].i houses where there is a kitchen lookinjr-frlass, hairs are ire- 
fluently found in the dishes that come to table. All the comb- 
ing and dressing of thi^ servants ourrht to be done in their own 
fileeping-rooms ; and it is best to give them no facilities of per- 
forming this business in any other part of the house. 

Listing the kitchen doors will produce much increase of 
comfort ill winter. 

A kitchen with white-waslied walls will look far more clean 
and light tlian if fr)loured with yellow-ochre. The windows 
(if in a cellar kitchen) should be secured on the outside with 
wire nettinfrs, to jirevent the entrance of rats from without. 
If tin* kitciien is built back of the house, it is well to have 
window-blinds of common muslin or green stuif, to prevent 
curious persons from looking in. On the inside of the door 
have, for general use, a wood'm roller, with a coarse towel of 
crash or tow linc-n about three yards lonir, and sewed tosrcther 
at the ends. The rrdler should he taken down ever> morning, 
and replenislied with a clean towed. 

On a broad bench near the sink, keep one or two block tin 
basins, and a little tin soap-cu}>, to be convenient for washing 



hands; a common-sized coarse towel hanging on a peg 

above. 

Let the sink be kept extremely clean ; and care should be 
taken that nothing goes down it that may cause any stoppage. 
Over it have nails on which to hang the dish-cloths, &c. All 
water in which vegetables tiave been washed or boiled, should 
be thrown out at once; as, if allowed to stand, it will soon smell 
disagreealdy ; cabbage in particular. 

It is well to keep a large boiler always on the kitchen fire, 
for the c()nv(mience of having liot water whenever it may ho 
wanted. It should be furnished with a close cover, and with 
•d cock for drawino- off the water. This boiler should be used 
for water only, kept very clean, and washed and wiped out 
every morning. When water is taken out for use, let thi- boiiiT 
be replenished with more, so as to keep it always well filled. 

A hearth-brush (to hang on a nail convenient to the fire-place) 
should be allowed in every kitchen. Independent of its slo- 
venly and uncomfortable appearance, a littered, ashy hearth will 
communicate a portion of its dirt aod ashes to whatever is 
placed upon it. Nevertheless, the hearth should nnt he swept 
when any uncovered cooking utensils are standing there. 

N(>ither should the kitchen floor he swept while diimer is 
preparing; or, in short, when any eatables ar(> about it. The 
best time for sweeping and dusting the kitchen is early in the 
morning, immediately after the fire has been made; (that, ot 
course, being always the first thing done, as soon as the win- 
d.,ws are openiMl ;) but if the breakfast hour is vn-y early, the 
kitchen sweeping, kc, may be deterred till after the breakfast 
utensils are washed and put away ; and it should be brushed 
up ■i.jain in the afternoon, when the dish-washmu is eoinpleted. 
I), I not clean candlesticks while the l)reakfist is about the 
lifr, b <l some of the 'j-rease should fail into the dislu s. ,| 



232 



T II E II 1; b i: r, o o k. 



!«5t 

J If 

'I* 



I? , •« 



ll }ou l)iirii wood, you nnist have ii bellows for Uie kitciir'a. 

'i'iif duties of the doinesties (particuhirly those oi' the cook) 
cannot 1m^ r(!irulurly performed without a kitchen (dock. It is 
Will, Ih h)ie you luakt! a (iual jiurehase ut" su(di an article, tf> 
take it a ruonth on trial ; lor it' it does not ke(^j) tiim? correctly 
and if it is contirnially «(ettin^( out of order, it will not l)e worth 
havinn-, and caniuA hut prove u dear harn-ain, however htw the 
orin^inal cost. ( M" wood<>n clocks, many are exceiient ; others 
are coiuph t.e frauds. In some fanalies they havt' a kit(dien 
?/Y//(7/. A clock is better ; for a vvat(di is ii;ii)h> to accidents 
from failing-; is frequently broken or ]»ut out of order by the 
nu'ddlinir (,f servant iM-.ys, (if you have such ;) and also it can 
he stolen and carried away very converuently. 

We know an instanc«^ of a \\()(jden (dock, made in Connecti- 
cut, that seenu'd to go very well, exce])t that it always stopped 
in nine liours after being wound up. On exaunnation by the 
pfentleman w ho had purchased it for liis kitchen, it was found 
that a pieeo of shavin<i had aecidentaily lodged Ih bind one of 
the who. is, |)N)bab!y in iu.iiling liu- clock togetiur whou il-ii^hr^!. 
The shavnig was remr-ved, and the clock turned out an exc.'l- 
It lit ( inc. 

A marble table for making past(> sof)n defrays its cost by 
what it Raves in tlie <'xp( rise of obtaining pastry from the con- 
t( clioner's. Paste ihat is tough and heavv is unfit to be <'at. n : 
and witliout a mariile tatde, or some extraordinary converdr'nces 
forcoolness.it is dilhcult to make it light in warm weather. 
Also, whenever butter is made, a marble table is rd ^rreat 
advantage for workiue-. pressin;r. and dividing it after it conies 
from the ehurn. 'I'he cdst of a now kitchen table witii a mari.do 
to]>, is from tw(dve t<t fift< en dollars in I'iuhuh ipbia. An old 
marble hearth, tliat lias been taken up to be replaced by a 
new- one, will mal^e a very good top for a j»aslry table. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 



233 



Where the cxt(mt of the house will allow it, there is great 
advantage in having a room in tlie lower part litted up purposely 
for making pastry, cakes, sw^^ctmeats, and other nice articles 
of like description. 

A mar!d(^ mortar is the b(^st for all purposes connected with 
cooking; being cool, lasting, (^asily kept clean, and incapable 
of imbibing any {tart of the substvmces pounded in it. 'I'he 
noxt best is a mortar (d' lignum vita\ a wood that is very hard 
and durable. Mortars of white <^arthen comj)osition-ware are 
easily broken, and only lit for little things that are to be rubbed 
with the j)esth^ rather than poundf^d. T\\v common w^noden 
mortars absorb miudi of the things tlia.t are pulveri/jMl in them, 
and are apt to communicate the tast(> (jf one arti(d(^ to another. 
Iron mortars lined with tin are cheap and very grnod. As soon 
as the tinning of the inside begins to wear oil", it must imme- 
diately be renewed at a tinner's; otlierwise every thing pounded 
in the mortar will turn black. 



KrrCllKN CHOCKKRV.— Brown earlhenj.ans, both d.^p 
and shallow, and. (d'dilferent sizes, are nrtichs of ossentin] u-'O 
in all kil(diens. I'Vgs shoulil aiways bo beaten in a shalli'to 
earthen {lan, and butter and sugar in a dirp .aie. 'I'in pans a.re 
inconvenient for these pnrpos<'S, as the coldn( ss of tln^ metal 
prevents the thin<'"s from becominc" li'rht. ^'ou will want lariro, 
tail earthen crocks for holding various artiehs of provision ; 
each crock should have a cover: also coarse brown jiig^, bowN, 
antl disln^s, to save better ones. Of white crrx-kery, or common 
(]ueensware, you will n^ipiire {>l;'.tes, dishes, and pit<diers tor 
the use of the kitcdien ; and prol.'ablv puddnig ncjulds and 
blauc-maiige moulds: also cups, saucers, salt-cellar, pej^per- 
l)ox, ^c., for the table of the domestics, and a lew cotmmon 

f(lass tumblers. 

20* 



i'.* 



A)K 



34 



T li V. II V S y BOO K. 



K t T C 11 i: N I T E N S I L S. 



235 



m 



StoiK -ware also will W wanted tur lua.iiy jjurposcs. It is 
e\cc« (iingly stroiin-, and thcrt; arr. few tliinu;^ lliat do not k.-pp 
wrll III 11. it. IS best, in Ini} in;.;- stone jars, jxjIs, and boxes, to 

I those lli.U iiave iiandies aiid lids; covers ot' the sai 



•n 



hei 



ne \vai(} 



n*:- lar better than cor 



ks. 1 



\\ 



consetiuence ot' tin; thiekii(>ss 



X il 



u' ware, cold water W) 



Kcei) cool lori<rt 

I (—1 



1 1. 



aiK 



1 hot 



water 



will k< tp warm ion<j;-er, in a stone ju«r than in any other vesst i. 
Its cooliK ,-,s may be increased in summer by wrappinjr round 



it a thick wt t cloth, lastened securel 



^y 



ive a 



llv()N WAHi']. — For an open fire-jjlar'e you must li; 
crane and p<!tdiooks; and you will require a nest ol' j)ots of 
«lill(Tent siz( s, and a bnir iron fork to lift tliintrs cait (d" ihem ; 
id small irridirons; a fryiiin--pan ; one or two Dutch 



larsK^ ai 



ovens, or iron i)ake-j>an->, as they are sometim(s called ; trivets. 



a skillet, or \\ liat is termed a 



sjjider, standimr on letrs ; \\ 



v.aljie-irf 



a; tuo oriibMe^, it' your family is larur, as warm 



Cak( s ri.'me III bill \i r\- 



'U I V 'v\ iien th( ic 



!'ul one " ri 



on le 



b) 



baive tiiem on; hi^uarc iron b;d%n!'j-n;\ns. f. 



UX\ 



nul oil 



1 



M\ rpoSr 



1; 



dle 



perloraied >Kimmer; irori .-.kewt rs 



rij-fi 



tcrastinii-io.'ii to >e! b(|(,re the fire; a c(itiee-ro;>ster ; a la 
tt'a-kt tile, (uhicli biiould he W( 11 tinned insid( ,) with, a fallimr 



land 



tliat, if nee 



essarv. It may be l)o 



lied 



m a stove 



Ivettb 



• r prt >.er\ inn- ;iiid pieklmir should be of iron, lit 



led with I'orce 



1; 



iin, or enajiuj, as it is suiiietiiius calle 



tl 



lose ol hrass or 



b(dl-meta] oiin-bt never to be used for this purpose, as tiie aetioii 
ol acids on them is poisonous, and has produced the most (b le- 
lerious and even ialal ellcetb. Indeed, uteiibils lined \ml1i 



} 



P'lrci lain mav^ be used to areat advanta<.';e m every s 



( ) 



rt of 



St. win 



"■ or I M i 1 1 1 n " 



Tl 



lo.^e 'I 



i ( 



«' rman manulacuire are iIm^ 



)est. < '.ire mud b 



tak 



en no 



t to 1 



lave luo htrce a lire in u.-hilt 



porcel 



nn-iined vessel-, or the liniu':'" ^vi^ crack and r>cale (df 






s, ami art 



I 



but with i)r(»per attention they will last many year 
more wholesome and more (easily kept clean than any other 
Is- it is well to have small skillets and sauce- 



cookinjr uteiiai 



])an3 of [)orcelaiiu 'J'here 



are 



also larjre kettles of this descrip- 



tion for boilinj.!; hams, 



and others for fish. 



If 



tmm 



copper vessels arv usee 



d in a kitchen, they should h(; W( II 



■d on the inside ; and they will reipiire new tinninoat least 
once a year, or still more frecjuently if tiie tin aj)pears to bt m 



llie least weannij;- o 



If, 



Portal)le furnaces (lo be heated with (diarcoal) are belb'r ot 



iron than ol ci 



av, as tb(!V will last always, an 



l1 arc; not liabb^ 



to cratdv or ervt <r.il of order. Willi these you may stew and 
boll, and ma.ke sweetmeats out m the yard. U 
kitchen, a door or wdndow must be kept o] 



used ill Ttie 



m all the. time, or 



tl 



le vapour o 



t' the cliarcoal will bt' sullocatini 



Coir 



eh!-m 



ills thai are madu; to taslen ai/ams 



t the w.ill are far 



more convc'im 



nt t! 



lan 1 



hose that must be held on the laj 



Th-re should be a mill purp<.s. ly lor nirinduio- s[dces 



\ 



ll 1 he same 



mill IS u>ed for both, t!ie collee wil 



asle o 



ail' 



tin 



nil 



SIfice ot CidTe( 



Si 



)ice s 



hoiild iic irround ; 



I hib 



a>, 



)U-e 



a I a 



w^:'^ 'ri 



linjrly 



as It is wa 



nled. ll is \\(dl to have a pepper- 



11 al 



so. 



on 



will want some stronfi;, stout knives an 



d b)rks ; a kit(dieii 



cleaver for cutimn; throuirb the bone of meat ; a chopper b)r 
mincm^-; a steel for sharjieniiiir knives; besides a whetstone, 
and a (daw-hammer for drivinn- and exlractiiio: nails. A boK 



containuur nai 



Is of diller(mt si/.(>s, and a ball of twme, should 



be j)rovid.'tl f)r (wery kitchen. \ pair of suLHir-nippers are 
indispensable, ior breakinjr small the loai 



-sieiar, a 



Iter it teas 



been crack* d with a stout knite and a mallet or baia 



lil! 



It 



Stlould 



then be 



A. \\\ a closely covered tin or w 'od 



I n 



iU'i 



-1 I)' 



h'i\ .lis* 



) for brow^n Knrj'ir. 



ai l)oX, 



236 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS, 



237 



Iron spoons for the kitchen arc much bettf-r than those of 
pewter, as thc^ neitlier bend nor break. Strips of leather, naihid 
ahjntr the edm; of the dresser-shelves, are very convcmif^nt recep- 
tacles lur spoons or similar articles that are in constant use. 






TIN W ARE. — Of tins for preparin^r cookery you may hav(3 
deep round j)ans of dillerent sizes; larnrc and small patty-j)ans 
for shells or empty paste; pie-dishes of block tin with broad 
rims; (the pastry to he removed from these dishes when cool, and 
transferred to china;) cake-pans, some s.piare and shallow, and 
some round and deep. For lar;j^(> thick cakes it is best U> u-ot 
pans \N ith straiirht or perpendicular sides, as those ihat slant 
inward (narrowing- towards the bottom) are very inconvenient 
lor a cake tliat is to be ic»'d. Also, lartre cake-pans are best 
Willi a iudlow tube in the centns to admit tln^ heat into the 
middle of the cake, tliat it may bake evenly all throuoh. Havo 
likewise tw(; or thrtje dozen small round or oval tins, for little 
eak<s; als.; a rlozen mutlin riinrs. You will want a fovored 
till vossc I jur kr< pinu lard; a butter-kettir, and a sjimiar lin 
koitir f,,r Im Tries or sinall fruit; a small block tin tea-kettle f,,r 
small ptirposes, and a litth' block tin sauce-].an. A double 
bl..ck tin kottle, tor stewiuM; with all the water outside, is a 
useful contrivance. It consists simply of an inner kettle, about 
tiiree or four inches ( ach way smaller and less deep than the 
outer (me, msid,- ui which it is suspended by means of two 
small iron rincrs pist beb,w the rim of the smallest k(>ttle, and 
tied with twiiH^ to two c(jrrespondinfT rin^rs placed on the irisidr. 
of tin" laro-e kettle, about two or three inchos below th(> top. 
Hoth keltlrs have close lids, and fallin^r han.rirs ov. r thorn. 
Tie y arc e\C(dlent lor boilinn; ()ud<Jinns e-r custards; stewinir 
ii|'i»lo.. and other fruit; makin(r b. ef ha, kr,; and are on the 
Muue pnnrip!,. as tin- uunsi! called a Batn Manr, so much 



employed in French cookinrr. The inner and outer kettles may 
be used separatidy. 

For roastinjT, there is nothintr better than what is commonly 
but absurdly called a tin kitchen. It may be well to have two 
of them, one lartre, and one small. 

You will want a cullender; a fish-kettle; an e(r<r.l)oiler ; an 
etTir-slice; a j)epper-box ; a dr(^d^ing-bo\ ; lar<re and small 
n-raters. For spice-boxes, it is best to keep the different sorts 
of spice in small, separate, painted tin lioxes, each with a ti^ht 
fittino- lid, and a handle to banir it by. to nails driven alonu; the 
ed(r(! of a dr( sser-shelf; eacli bo\ to have the naim; of the s])ice 
(as cinnamon, mace, nutmeirs, cloves) painted on the side. 
These will be found more convenient than the larp,e spice boxes, 
in which, notwithstandinfr the divisions, the spices are v(^ry 
apt to ^ret mixed. Do not buy your spice ready ^^round, 
as when powdered, it loses its strencrth by keepintr. You 
should by all means have a tin apple-corer ; a most useful little 
instrument, to be struck into the stem end or toj) of the '.ijiple, 
and Jiirned roimd and round like a cork-screw ; it will, iii owv. 
minut(\ tiirust out the coxv throii<rli the bottom, as smoothly 
and nic( ly as possible, A tin apple-roaster, to set l)efore tlie 
fire, is also a useful thinrr. 

You will want a tin vessel, lar<re enough to contain three or 
four (rallons of lamp oil, ami also lar^e and small oil-cans for 
daily usp; a lantern ; broad-bottomed kitchen candlesticks or 
lamps; a candle-bo\ ; a lar<,n' and a small funnel for j>ourinu' 
li(|uids; a sunrar scoop, if yf>u keep surrar in a barrel ; and a 
tlour srf)op, for the flour barnd. A set of tin mufrs, (with lij)S 
or spouts,) to be usod a-, neasiir.^s, w ill be fo'und very conve- 
nient; they may be six in number; a (ralbm; a two (piari 
measurr; one quarl ; a pint: half a pint; a jill ; and hall a 
jill. Have also a pair of scales witli a set of wei;dits. !t i.-, 



238 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



K 1 T C; H E X U T E N S I L S. 



239 



f'<i#, 



well to have the scales permanently hung to a small projecting 
bar or hearr) fixed in a convenient place ; for instance^ at the 
end of the kitchen dresser, or on one of the store-closet slielvcs ; 
otlierwise there will be much trouble, from the chains of thi^ 
scales beconiinfT twisted or unlinked, by fre(}uently liftin<( them 
in and out of the scale-box. Without measures and scales, 
there can be little or no accuracy in tlie nicer branches of 
cookery ; particularly in makin^r pastry, cakes, or sweetmeats. 

Tin buckets, painted outside, are far belter and more lastin^r 
than those of wood. There should be a tin dipper or ladle f'or 
the water. 

Kitchen candlesticks or lamps are best of strong block tin, 
and should have broad bottoms. 



WOODEN WARE.— Of this, you will want tubs; buckets; 
large Ijowls or wooden pans for flour; sieves, large and sm;ill ; 
a beetle for mashing potatoes, turnips, <^c. ; a meat beetle, 
for pounding steaks ami chops to make them tender; two 
})ickory ('gL'"-beaters, larLn* and sural I ; .i spaddb- or unind short 
hickory stick, flattened at one end, for stirriuL'- butter and sutnir; 
a paste-board, for making pies; a cotlVti-stick ; a mush-stick; 
a clothes-stick ; and wooden spoons and ladles. 

If you make bread for a large family, a kneading trough 
wiil b(! of essential conveniencr- ; and when not otherwise in 
use, it can form a table, by covering it uith the lid. 

Flour buckets with lids are (excellent fir holding sith'd flour. 
Every sort of meal would keep better, if removed at once from 
the barrel, (wiiere it is always tiglitly packed, ) sifted througfi 
a sieve, ami distributod in. coverrd biudvets. This is a very 
common [iractice in the southern si.itcs, vvlMT(i i},,. warmth of 
ibf; climate Oecjuently causes Hour to spoil wtien tiiis prerau- 
tion is omitted. If you do keep your flour in a barrel, h t it bo 



constantly covered with a tiglit lid. Suet can be kept perfectly 
good for a week, by burying it in the flour barrel. 

Your salt-boxes and sugar-boxes should be of wood with 
c.los(; covers. 

A large close-covered wooden box is very convenient for 
softening sweet cake that is not quite fresh. Shut up the cake 
closely in the box, and about an hour before tea, set it in front 
of the fire, (nr)t so near as to scorch the wood,) and turn it 
r(jund occasionally. This will soften the cake, and make it 
se(-m fresh. If the cake is large, slice it before you put it into 
the box. 



[JASKET-WAKE.— There should be a large market basket 
and a smaller one, and these should be kept very clean, wiping 
them always after using, and frequently washing them out 
with a wet cloth, and thtm putting them to dry. They will 
recjuire occasionally scrubhdng with a liand-brush, soap, and 
warm water, to get off the grtnise that the marketing will leave 
in ihem. Tish should be cairied lioirse from market in the 
iiarid, ami nr,t \\\u\ in the bask(.-t, or they will communicate a 
taste and simdl to the otlu^r provisions. If you us(^ a basket 
for kee[)ing tlie bread, let it be one with a cov(>r, and S(M' that 
the bread, when put away in it, is always closely wra})ped in a 
clean thick towel. 

Small hand-baskets are ustd'ul for eggs, and many other 

articles. 

It is w(dl to have a bottle-basket with sockets, so that bot- 
tles mav be carried in it standing upright, and without any 
d.mger of brtvakinaf. 

Uemijohr.s (large bottles, covered with basket-w.rk ) are 
extremely useful \\\ a kitchen t)r store-re'Om, for iiolding vineg'.ir, 
molasses, kv.\ being less liable to accidents, than earthen, or 



210 



THE nous K B K, 






-A 



I* t 



even stone jujts. Small ch^niijohns, li(>ldin«jr ironi a irallon to 
two orvillons, are very convenient. 

For laundry-work you should have one or more larcre eiothc s- 
l)-,!sk(ls, wliieh should not he used lor any oilier purpose. A 
hasket with a lid or cover is useful for small muslins, &c., 
alter th(;y are ironed, to preserve them from injiiry by dust or 
dam{). 

An old chanqnifrne basket, kept in a kitchen closet, will ho 
losiud a nood r(ce])tacle for dusters and sundry other things. 

There should be a box or basket to contain all the thin«.'s 
necessary for cleaninLf silver and other metal ; another for the 
articles used in ch anintr mahotrany furniture ; ';ne f«r th( lamp 
thinos, and one for those em{)loyed in cloanino- knives, kc, 
Als(j a r(>eepta('le for the shoe-cleaniuir appar;itus. Jt is well 
to keej) in a box or a dravrer nails of diilerent sizes, a (daw- 
liaiiim(;r,asmailsaw,agiml(a,ascrew-driver, andahallof twine. 



KlT(;iIKN CLOTHS.— Table cloths tor the kitchen are 

UViiorally made of uii!)]( achi-d e<itton diap« r; but carse Imen 
or hu(d<ahark will eventually he found cheaj)est, as it will last 
much Ionu;(-r. There should hc: a sutlicuiut mnnber of kitidien 
towels (d' ditfi rent sorts to .suit ditlerent j)urposes. For instance, 
th( re may be half a dozen r(dliu*r tow<ds of crash, or coarse 
lhi(dv linen; a (hizeti smalb r lov>els of the same (juality, eacdi 
b(in<rayard in len<rth ; and a dozen tow(ds of common tiiin 
lineji <iiaper, for wipiufr frlasses, fdiiua, Kc. 

]^i<ldinn--clotlis are best when of very thi(d; linen, (for in- 
stance, Russia sli( etinn-,) and made Mjuare. Dumplnin-cli.ths 
liie same, hut snuilh r. .lelly hairs should he always of u bite 
flamie! ; wiien ([iiite new, lb, y must be well washed bt fore 
lisiiio-, to act out all the uri ase of the wcMd. They are made 
of a S(juare (,i llannel, doulded like a half handkeohief, s.i us 



m 



K ITC H 1 N \ T r. \ S 1 J. S. 



il 



to be wide at tlu^ tf)p and pfdnted at the bottom ; the side beiugr 
Fcwed up in a stron'j seam, and the top or iiiouth henuned, 
witii three tape b>ops s-wed to it, bv wliich, when m use, it is 
f.usprnded to tile Ic'j-'^ < '\' a table, or to a wr.oden frami' made 
i'or the ]M,i, rpo^:e. 

Sconriofj; tlatmels or rubbers should be sirsuur and coarse." 
If made on pnrpe^se, it is well to hem thorn sliLrhtlv all round, 
to pr( V! Jit tla ir ravelliu'i. !)o the s;nne with ntw dusters, 
whifdi ;ire bett. r (d'e<itton than of Imcii, !iiin<j; softer. 

'I'he clotiis used in scruid)i!iL'' t la tb'or should be dt thick toW 
linen or ^trlin'J < r;edi. ;nid verv larue. F' t them also 1)6 
hennned. The disli-cbiths and pot-(doths may he less thick, 
hut. also oi' brown rmee.. F;iit!t-!dotf!S are h-. st ol" soil old linen ; 
if new, thev arc' ajW to sera,tr!i tl'i i>aint. Old otweU, siwet^i, 
AiC., come Well luto usc as kiudien cloths. When dirty, let 
tin in b(> washod, and not tlirown away, as of no firtber aecount. 

All tbf above-nu ntioiied iirtieje- sli'iuid ho k<'j>t (dean and 
tak' !i care ol'. a.i w ;i v -^ pnttiu'r lie in aw av in ! heir [)nip. r places. 
Ti,,' r-ii '11! i^'W i is. \ (■., ioav Ih' li. p.'-M' <i in I lie dresscr-d raw ers„ 

The chiths ;ipjeMpri;it('d t- the -d. 'p-bu(d\eis, iV e.. had host 
he of a ditlerent colour and materia! tVom the others, that they 
may be easily di-tni'Mii-^hed. '.iud not used for anv other 
juirpos(-s. 

Si)on<xes are, of grea.! u-e m various s^rts ol eleaninu. They 
sboidd in all leM!S( s be pr^'Vided lor the piirj)ris<\ To keep 
1 Ik III si.i't and white, wadi tlaui m warm w ;itt r with a little 
ta.rt'.iric a(ad in it. and. tliMi rinse them in c(d;l water. Take 
care n*>t \n imt m tn.. neieh f.oi.uac acui, as, it used to r-xeess, 
it w ill corrode the sponge. 



TlfjrSTIK'^. <^f. -In uin:.\ kiiehoii: th-r,. i s a 1 ;i T^je < d oset 
lur the purj)M^.c of contamni'j- ..r;!td''S necessary i'f doino the 



242 



THE HOUSE HOOK. 



11 

Mi* 



r«ft 



work ; and in this rlosrt nntliin<T ratablt' should he krpt. It h 
wfdl to })avo slu'lvps in one part of it, and hooks or jicrrs, in 
another. Of hair s\ve('j)inL':-hrushes you will want two; one 
for the lower part of the lious(>, and one for the upper; besides 
another with a r/ry hn^ Ir.mdle, for windows, cornices, ^c, 
C'orn or whisk-brooms will be necessary, and a bireh-brooni 
mav also b(^ useful for sweepin<T the cellar, yard, &c. Whisk- 
broonis, whether h^r sweepinir <loors or for hrushinjj elotlu s, 
will last much lonirer, ajid can be us(hI more eilectively, it the 
twins are prevented irom sprawlintr nut or sjireadinnr apart, by 
r^)verin«' them halfwav down with a sort of petticoat made ot 
stout brown linen, (^r coarse, stronfr cotton. It must bo fastened 
tirrhtly round the bottom ol' the handle, \vhcr(^ the twijr or l)room 
part commences, e\trndini>; downwards about halfway, and 
must fit tig:htly, so as to keep the twi^s close and com{iact. 
We have seen these (Mjvers very nicely made, with a hem at 
the })ottom, and a case and drawinir-strin'tr of tape? at tbo top, 
so as to slip on to the whi^k. and br tied roun<i ; havirej the 
advajitatro of boiin.i; lak'Mi oil" and wished v.iii n dirty. A t'lh*- 
rabie cover may bi' nr.ule f'^r a biouni by slippiuLT <.;ver it pru't 
of tlie le(r of an old woollen sto(d<in<r, securiufr it round the 
bottom of the handle ^\-itb a strin'jr. 

Shrjrt-liaridled hruslies will be wanttMl f(»r the stairs, {'or 
hrushitifT })edsteads, for r.Mnovinw; the dust from betwt:en the 
slats of Venetian sbulters, and for many other luirposes. All 
brooms and brushes used for sweepinix will last much l-nLn-r 
if, when not in usf, tliey are bunuf up by a lonp ot twine ur 
tape, passed thr"U^ii a iir^ie diiiled iV-r the purpn-^*- near the top 
of ffie handle. 

Also, bef .re liiov ar<' pui away, h t ;i!l lin iiits of llu", clip- 
pin(^H, thread^, k<'., be picked oil tliem. 

You will, of course, want scrubbing-brushes with and with- 



KITCHF. N DTFNSILS. 



243 



out handles; white-w'ash brush (^s; stove-bnishes; shoe-brushes, 
and brushes for cleaning- the various articles of furniture, in- 
cluding- silvi^r. Tlu'Se should be ke})t in suitable places, 
and always washed befor(> they are put away. One or more 
jr.iint-brushes will hv found very convenient in every house. 
After u*in«j, they should be soaked in sjiirits of turpentine to 
g-et oil the paint, and tijen washed in warm soap-suds. 

Leathers for <d(ranini'- metal ar<' indispensable, 'i'liey will 
last loiu'cr, and !)e taken better care of, it' of iarorr size and of 
recrnlar shape. 'I'bey sboubl hr of huidvskin ; or soft sheepskin, 
such as j»assf^s for the skin ct' the chame>is tro.it, and is called 
shammy leatht^r. Tin se leathers can easily be washed with 
soap and wati^r; and this ouirht always to be done when they 
recpiire it. 



HEFUKiERATORS. — These are larire wooden boxes, 
standing on feet, and lined with tin or zinc, bein^r n-enerally 
inteflin«'d vvi(h (dnircoal, and liavino; at the bottom a lecej'tacle 
for ice, and .i drain to carry <>{]' tie' water tliat dnps trom it as 
il ni' lis; a vessel beijc^r always s« t underneath to catcdi ihn 
dropjdii^s. Tiiey are divided into compartments for the recep- 
tion of dillerent a.rtiides of jirnvisions, and iurnished w ith mova- 
ble shelvs'S or slats en wliicli to s« t the thintrs. During the 
warm season they fuust be ( very da.y replenished with fresh 
ice, wrapj)ed in a })iece of blanket to prevent its meltinft too 
fast, in a refrif^n'rator, articles of j)rovision may be kept from 
spoiliiiij with nuich more certainty than when placed in a cellar 
or vault. They are convenn ncrs which no fiindiy shnuld be 
uitli'MM, It i< wt II to liav<' two; one f(»r neat, ^c., and tin; 
otlier exclusively for butter, cream, milk, and nice thinirs madt; 
from the productions .'f the da.iry ; as these are all very apt t-o 
imbibe a (iisatrreeai)le taster if kept in th.' vicinity of jirovisionR 



2ii 



TTTK irOT'SF ROOK. 



KITCHEN ITEN81L S. 



245 



". » 



that are of a less drlicatf; naturo. We hav(^ scfn in dininn- 
rodins h;tn(is.'>[iu: nr,iliiiLi-,!tiv fcrri'rrrators, ior tiif piirjxjsL' of 
k(rj)ii!u; cool the \n ino and I'tlicr liqunrs used for the t;if)]o. 

H» IriLvrafMis jiuisf }>,■ kopj vcrv clean, wipitin- tin in (Mit 
every (hiy, ami al/ont nnce ;) w eck wnsliiinf tjie in>i(l«> thorou<'hiy, 
and tXjjosin«„r (hem a while to the air with the lid left o]^cu, A 
Tefri'jerator must on no accHint l?e ke^it in the kitchen, fir in 
any place where thore^ is lire. It, may stand in the pantry, 
in the kitchen entrv. 



or 



S.Vr hS. — A safe is a niOVi!i)h' en»set, standing- on feet; the 
dours and sides heinn- made u\' wire in't, or rd' perforated tin. It 
has shrives inside, and is nsed fe.r k( '.•pini_r cold me'.it, ]des, and 
other ariichs !• 1; iV-an the table. Tiie saf • should Ntand in the 
pantry ur in the kitchen entry; thi; kitrl.on its(df will Im- too 
warm for it. Th; v ha\e t!'e adv;nita<j-e of hein'r inner-. 's^ihle; 
t" Mii'-r. i\ V"cr h<'i;<( is infested with ants, it will he- well 
nut Lu phiee the safe near ih. w;:!!. aaid t- stan<l -.ill its f'et in 
till eups of salt and water. The sai^ -^h.-ld he s. niicM d mi.i 
tre.niently, and then carried me, the ar.a or thr yard, and 
exposed a while lu Uk' fresh ;iir, with its (huirs op(>n. 

Tn settinrr nwav .-idd nn at. (Vc, aiwriys put, a eovf-r on thft 
<^i^''- I'l'ch. r-; II:. ii f,,r iniik and cream should hav.' covers 
belon;iinLr h> them. I'iiey can be titled with tin .".vrrs at a tin- 
store; whicii are better tlinn any others, as ther. is no danger 
ot their br^ akni'.'. Civer* d pit(diers are also very convernent 
for ke. pmn- uai. r uarin, and for litrh teas, barley-water, <jrue!, 
&c.^ in sick-rooms. 



I'iiil l'J\'l\(i .lAliS. — in places where ri\« r w at(r i-; iiseri 
i'lr dnnkinn and cookinfT, n filterinc- jar is an arlnde of u-reat 
'•orjVMiien-,', renderin;^: 'i^' ^^ '''t merr uhidesome as w(il as 



more aixreeable, by deprivin^r of its i!n])uriiies. River water 
(even that wfdch is generally clear) always becomes more or 
less turbid in rainy weather, or when the ice breaks up ; and it 
is then in a very bad state for use. 

Filterino iars may be had iki all places where stone ware is 
sold ; they should b(^ kept in the cellar, and when tlie water is 
drawn out, they should be replenished, so as to keep them full. 

A very cheap and good contrivance for filtering, is to take a 
lartre warden llower-pot, and lay in the ])ottom a piece of 
sponge, so a« to cover the hole. ri)on this, j)ut a few iinooth 
clean pel)bH>s, to keep the sponge m its place, and fill up the 
pot to within two or three in<dies of the brim, with a mixture 
of one part of powdered eliarcoal, to two parts of fine sharp 
sand. Then cover the to{» of the pot with a piece of clean 
white flannel, tied tightly round the rim with a twine, but so 
us to sink or sway down in the centre. Set tlie flower-pot into 
a pan or tub, and pour tln^ water into the flannel, letting it filter 
tlirou(rh the charcoal, ^c; :md by the time it lias passed 
tliroucji tin' sjionne, ari<i cenu! out at the bottom, it will be 
clear. 



THF. CKLLAI?.— If you are under the necessity of keep- 
intr articles of provision in a cellar, it should be partitioned off, 
or separated by a wall from that in which the fuel, &c., is 
deposited. (Jreat cari' is necessary in keeping the cellar clean, 
and free from every thing that has a ])owerful smell. A barrel 
of salt fish ]daced in the cellar will frequently pervade the 
whole bouse with its odour, and impart a fishy taste tr) every 
article of fooii that may b«> kept there; also by renderinir the 
air impure, it will cause them to gpoil v(>ry soon. Miik or 
butter kept in the same cellar with a fish-barrel, acquires a 
very disagreeable taste, and is jndee<l uidit for use. In a t"W n, 

•21* 



r t 



h 



216 



THE UUU.Si: no OK. 



KlTfHRN ITF.NMIS, 



1547 



wlnre .alL-iisl. can always l.r purrhas.Ml ,n small quantitieR fc,r 
^^^''n^^'ii^^te n.o, it ,. !.:.( to keep no ii.h-barrd at all ; as the 
HiiuJl IS aeneraliy more or h^ss (iiilused thnn.cri. the lower pari 
-'■ J'-o h-us., and uiil he very perrepuhle to visiters, thouc^h 
^'uston. laay prevent thr janiily ironi nntieino n. 

Jl }'^'i Iv.rpaharrH U l>i--siop, either m the cellar or in 
the yard, ..v iiial it is emptied daily, and the contents carried 
away; oUnrwi.r, it will rer.ainiy cau.e a very ollensive and 
unwholesoHM .nnii. i a warm weather, the slop-harieUhouid 
^^^t !h lu p! n. ar the kilchen, hut in an <Mit-h,Mise, or in iUv most 
^■^'"-'' IMrto, iheynrd, li' V-mi have pm. .r y,,, ,,, ,, |^,^,^., 
'"' ^^"i'-^'=''^''i ^^^ '^ii. ()Mriieuiarly m summer,) hut let the 

'^''^':';'''''' '^''••^'^'^'^^^i'^^-'^^^^intoanohl tub or bucket, and 
carrjid to ih- m at onrp. 

% can.uUy st.ppn.o all the holes and cr.-vices, and by 
^"'*''^- ""■ ^^^'"i-^^-' -1 3-.-'ur cdiar careluily closed, partien- 
iaiiy all. r snn^.i. y,,n mav prevent (he nm ross of rats .md nnre 

^"luthomi.hhnunn. h.u... Tnr ,].. p asnn, th. wmdou s 
^'""■'' '"■ [•^"'•■'•"■<i iO- close lanmu^uuiirk nun v.re; as. if 

thereareonlybars,thesedestn;r.tiv.. ;oHnMls.,oi.;,Miv'>iip,n 
betwroe. We have Se. n m a puhlie .tr. H, ;md in hr.^ad day- 
Jigl't, a rat j^oiiiy mio a ceUar thiuunh the mm bars of the 
windou . 

r\d,baives and other veaetable. n.ay ho kept ail winter m a 
celhir. by burym^ them in oarth or sand. 

'^ '■*"'"■' '^'^'' ■''' """■'" i'!'"'^^ bolonaintr to a house, should 
be kept clean; tor no impurity can ho allowed to romam iheTc, 
Without -ausmo ;,„ odinsive . liluvia, and endanm ,inu- the 
i'i'ahh ubllie lanuly. Ti,o lin-.r. u bother ofelav er stooe, uid 
require fr^-jneut .uo.pi,,u unh a .-.ai.o broon,, and .dl the 
content:, ot th^ clia: c^liuuia be ai.an^^cd m ^uud videi,dnd 



not allowed to stand about in the way of every one that enters 
ihe place. 

in a t\u 1 cellar, lher(,' shoald be rece|)tac!es tor lln> ashes, 
and tor the dust collected in sweepin^i; the iieiuse. In most 
oellars, there are (-aviiies nnide lor the purpose, and <"aiiod the 
ash-hole, and the dust-hole. jJesiiies tlio coal aiai wooii, here 
are kept tlie (dnircf^al barrtds ; tiu^ cinder-sieve ; the eoal- 
sruttb^s, when not ii; immediate use; the lire-j)an, lor carrvm<4 
live co;ils that are wanted tor kjudluui-; lh'* saw. and 'he wood 
a\o. Ivich of tho^o 'hinn^ should ol' eoursf ha\e its aj)pro-- 
jirisii place. Thi' bu aniss <d" kmle-co-aniie.'. and o| boot- 
clcannr.s i.^ sometimes pertormod in the ct liar, il it is iiLllit 
eii'MMjii for sutdi purj)itses. A ctdlar ch'-^ft is a uroat. c(invr'- 
nii lu'f, a>. niany lhui'4s can l)e kept there- that are not e\;'al!y 
propt r lor the kit(dien closets. 



HYDRANTS AM) IMMPS.—To j.reViait a hy<ira.nt in 
the yard iioai tree/ini:', cover it closely, as soon as tiu' cohi 
weather sets in, wiib -trav /ilcivr. and ]irb"o,v. lenvinn- notbinn; 
exposed :m!I !h'' !i.\ii'!!>' .sal lb' -.pout, and bi\' oV( r tiio lop 
several t^jids oi' old carj." ! or eo,ir>r bbmko!. A hxalrant will 
br- less lik(dy to freo/.c, li" eare is taken, alb r drawuu^- w<ih r 
from it, al\\.iy> to turn the handle bark, a-, tir as it can po~---.i- 
hly 0(.. Ttiir^ caution .sho\ild bo im[tre--;rd on tlm r-orvints, 

Tf von have a pnnrp, vou may jUTvont i!--. troo/amj, durini!, 
the ni^bt, by settin<r the lumdlr as hmb as U will iro. ll is 
wa 11, also, t(t cover the pump as mmdi as po-,sibb' wilb >iraw 
and nb! oar()ct. In the iiorih, w o have ,-» en j)umpo .-^creciied 
iioni tho Cild, i)y a root or ^died bvo!! o\i r tb-m. 

If ibc iiydrant or the jjumi' .-/"'Uh/ !io</.o, \on m ;;;, ihaw it, 
by nnnrin'r on a ko'lb: iall od" b^ ilmu watoi, r^'uad 'be banilc 
and the spout. 



*d 



218 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



K ITC H K N V T IN'^TT F^, 



219 



In cities svilT'K'iently soutii lor fig-trees to g^row in the open 
air, they will thrive beautifully if in the immediate viemily of 
a jrarderi hydrant. The finv-st fi<r-trees we ever saw in Amerira, 
wf-n^ plaiited one on (r.icii side of a little jrarden in the most 
eentrai part of I'liiladelphia. They crrew to an unusual heiolii, 
produced a continual succession of fitrs, and their foliag-e 
always remained irrcen and luxuriant, till late in the autumn. 
Ci rape-vines planted on the hydrant-side of the garden, will 
p-entrally produce^ finer fruit, and in greater abimdance, than on 
any of the oth<^r walls. 

STORE-IiO()MS.~-It is a irreat convt^nience (in the country 
particularly) to have two store-rooms; one of them not lar 
from tin- kitchen; the oltu'r in the vicinity of the dininL-^-room. 
!n one, you can keep tea, c^iTcf^, chocrdate, sun-,ir, lluur, rice, 
so'ip, candles, k<\ ; ;!l! which articles, thert^ is iireat economy, 
:'s well as Cfuivenience, in huyin(rhy the (piantity, particularly 
if tlse fiiniiv i> larce. In this stfirc^-rcsom siiould be kept scales, 



\\ 



{I'jhis, and itH a.sure^ ; the scales tixe<l permanently to a 



lieaii), 



Smoked toiunies, hams, and drn li beef may be kept here, 
sewed up in whilf-washed cloths, and suspended on hoc^ks to 
the ceilin^^r. Haninnir shelves are very useful in a store-room, 
(irtat carr- should be taken to keep out rais, mice, and cock- 
roaches. 

The otln>r store-room may he smaller, and appropriated to the 
pickb^^, sweetmeats, cakes, ^-c., thai may be use-.l m the 
f^.ihiilv; alsri s\\»'<t wini'^. cordials, syrups, aral other articles 
of like drx-niMion Here may b*^ k.'pt tho uten.^ils ba m.tkiijn- 
I'!;!nc-Mi;i5)"^(', ice-<'rr>arn, and confectionary ot various do- 

SCIlptldUS. 

It IS vvdl to have al! the jars labelled with the namo^ n\' tlie 



thinfrs contained in them, that wroni,r ones may not he opr^ncd 
by mistake. Hctc should b<- kept a lari^o' spoun aaui a fork tor 
lifliu!^ out the pickles, and another sjtoon vamI fork tor the 
preserves. Also a towel, for wijiiiu^- up any juice or vine(rar 
thai may <dianc"- to d. ro)>. 

M'his store-rot)m must Ixj w«dl furnished with shelves. And 
it is very couvenienl to have a small t;d.)le in tiie centre, to set 
things on when you take them down. 



I (■■ 



250 



THE 1)1 NIN(i-ROO]\r, &c. 



If the (iiiiinpr-rooiTi is adjoining to tho kilclion, much trouble 
of openinn am] shuttinir the door, and rrojiKr out and in, niiiv 
}»(,' saved, hy niakini^" in the j)artitifni Itctwccn the two aparl- 
nicnts, a S(j!iaro window with two sliutlers, on.' on t'acli sidr ; 
tho shutter that opens into tht; dinin<r-rooTn to ho painted or 
papered to correspond with tlie wall, so lliat when (dosed, it 
may hv, scarcely perceptihh^. On t!ie kitchen si<hs the window^ 
should h;;ve two Very hroad shelves, on which to set the dishes, 
&('., that are- handed in and out thron<rh it. 

When ttie dinintr-rouni is up stairs, and imniediately ovt-r 
the kitchen, a duuiit-waiter eh)set will he found a f.rrcat convf- 
inence. Tins is a Inv.'j; iln-y, ejose-l, nnei.- in ilie wall. an(i (i. - 
scendinir iVooi the d ininu'-rooni to tiie kitch. n. with a d ht lu! « 
eaadi. In>ide of this eh)set, is a ti.r of broad sijuare shejv.'s 
one above anoth<;r, and connected hy a frani(\ This tier ci' 
shelves is raised and lowered hy means of a i)ulley and a 
stroni; rope, with a h)op or hancUe at each (>nrL On these 
shelves, tfie cook places the dishes, and they are drawn up hy 
the servant that waits on the table, and let down wht n (haie 
with. Kafdi slndf of this apparatus is surrounded by a rim or 
b do-,. lik(; a tray. A contrivancf> ot" this kind saves mueh time 
and trouhle in carryin<r fhr thimrs up and down stairs, and 
Iess<'ns ihe risk ol" hreakai^f. 

It there is no convenient j>antry, a b.irire (doset is indisj>en- 
sahle to a dininjr-rooin. 'i'wo small side-boards, on(^ in each 



THE PANTRY, FTC 



251 



recess, occupy less space than a lar(^^c on«> standinfr out, and 
are therefore preferable, unless the dininnr-rooni is very spacious 
and expensively furnished, so that an elegant side-board may 
be (dassed anionfr its onianunts. 







THE PAiNTiiY.— The pantry is a small apartment, either 
ndjoinin<r to tiie dininir-rooin or v( ry near it, in wliich it is very 
eonvenient to wash the china and glasses, to arranir<> the cas- 
lors, v\v;m the silver, kr. It should be fitted up with she Ives 
{or h.d.diie^r ihe niass and <diina, or, what is still better, with a 
serf of dresser, having (dosets above ami drawers luaieath. The 
plate should either have a cb.set to itS( If. or be kept in drawers 
lined with <jreen baize. We have SfH-n a plate (doset of iron, 
let into the wall of a pantry, and openint.r by a slidiuLr door, s 
construct. mI as to be imperceptible to stran<j^(TS. !n som(> lami- 
li( ^ all tb.e ]date is loek( d up every niobt in an iron (diest, the 
key beino- ke})t bv tlu^ master of the hous(\ 

In j.laees where there is an a!)undance (d' water, (a^ m Phi- 
lad* Iphia,) It IS n.^t rmfrequent to have it hnaiLdit b\ a [)ipo 
into the panirv., r-^t (ady f^r tl.o conv.auence of washmur the 
articb-s contained tliere, but to ailord a supply to adl thai part 
..f th.^ bouse. Tnd.^T the spout of the pantry water pipe, in a 
hnndsomc bouse, we have seen the sink or drain lined with 
marble instead (d" b ad or zinc. In winter it is w(dl to have the 
pantry made comfortably warm by an iron drum or somethmo 
,d' that snrt. Here >luaild be k.pt the knives, forks, erMmb- 
cdoth, tabbwloths, napkins, waiters, trays, platr-warmer, disli- 
mats, cork-serews, wiiu-coolrrs, and every thin<r ne>eessary tor 
settiiifr the table. 



'I'HK CASTOI^S.— Attention sluaild every da.y he striven to 
the castors to see that they are .dean ^nd in pro})er order, and 



'>r^ 



52 



Tin: iioiisE BOOK. 



!i 



that tliere is no dulicicucy of any of the articlos contaiiifij i 
thr rniots, Tt is a noo<i riiic to ill! thciu up dailv. 'llu- cHy.. 
enne sliould !).■ siiukm and stirred up to tlic hoinmi cvtry day, 
as ii 1^ aj)t to gel iiilu solid masses; and the <-ov- r (tfllic f)ott|,; 
slinuld i.r rxairiin.M], to see ii' the fmlrs arc n^a <-!!Mi!'<(l and 
i^t.;pp,d uj) Willi the p« n])er, wliirh in that case nnist lir rnnovrd 
l»y ji'ikjno- it out \Mth a hirir,. pjn or witii ijic prdUM- ot' a iVak. 
'1'Ih- vinrcrnr r-ruft nnist also 'jc inspcctfd, to s( r tinit its con- 
trnts an not cloudy. \ jiicaur l.y I'-no- standinir wiJ) coll, rt a 
inniildy sort of ^Innv, craniu.ady called //,"• ,nn;hf r. It should 
tla n 1)0 rmptird out,and the hotth' well \\a;d!cd. Much of the 
viuonrir now sold in tiiu st( res is adult, rah d wiih vitrnd, lar- 
tanc acid, or some other iiigredienl, of winch ,i sinall (luantity 
v.ill o:ive a stronn- deijree -f souttk ss, iiut ai the same tune, 
Tendi riun the lujuui so corrusive as ti» he liufit tor um . W'e 
have socn oyslt i>, tlt.it, from bLiULj pudded w ith tin- ]m riucious 
vinen-ar, were entrn into holos ])y it Ik lo.re ihey were cold, a!) 
ol theni di-xd'viU'j- !»\ iio\i day niio nujx recptddo jarlKdes. 
I'ieiJos also are destroyed b} u m siie s^ino mauuor: and of 
rour>e It.-; t if ct^ on th*' liuiuan sv~a. ui must h,- hujhlv d* hte- 
rutus. It IS sah <t to I ry a small (piautily hrsi. and il vnu ijisu 
U n| the ahove desciipLion, send ha(dv what you have l.ounhi : 
or at least do not. on -.niv consuuTalion, use it. Wo h. Iiovo 
that I nderwood's ji. st luckliuij- viiU'Ljar mav he saf. ly dopi ud( ci 
on. I'.miiiies tiial live in the country uiH find it nu-l co.uve- 
nirnt to mrdce their fi\\ u vine<.rar. 

Salad oil, when \\<u fresh, acumrcs a verv unplca,sant tasio. 
\\ lien this hap>jjeii.-, it need nut i;e tiirow n auav aft* r i^ ue viuu- 
it frorn the cru. <. a- it nia\- ho saved ("i the uiivtiw. s u-.- d in 
ch aniui: fenuieo , .n r. |u> ,,,,1 uii\ muci, mustard at a ion. , 
^'s Uie Iresher it IS the belter. .Never have the t^pooii in the 



TTiUStrird af'er diioe --. r.'t'T ill 



-alt-^pOOUS If: the 



r !':< V 



TH K I' IN r Ii v. t. rc. 



<, 



M3 



will ^|v»t aaid ca.nk'er; h\i\ tal;c tlu-m out aaid v, a.sh them whon 
YOU do iho (ahor -.pi-us. A!>o, empty ont ii;' -vd.l-cidlaa-s and 
wipe tluin (drau. W heu vmi ill! them, smooih the >.ali very 
nicely on the t'.j). Salt mn-;t be kept norf .ct1v d'-y, f .r if dam]) 
o \<, jii lio ue.ist .ael di-e-fiured. I se only the hi st ; it ^ co,-l 
is net u.'.U'di. and tin re is no real economy hi buying salt ol iide-- 



re a- cuait; y 



'U 



In some castors ao' l.::tth . fa- powdt rod h,ai-MU:ar; hut lae 
most usual way of i)nn;^in;^ this c^'iidimeui to t dd- is in a small 
glass or Sliver bowd, v, ith a. porfa-atrd Ind.h f-a- d,ippiier it o!it 
and sprinkling it on. Afuu- pwd ron^r, let it ad-. a\- i)0 

sifted. 

If tiie StopuM- "f a (Muiel is Inst or hiv.kou. it should at oucc 
be replace<i with a \u\\ eins boido. th.ii, ;i'i> ft ^^pi a, tlic <• a- 
tent- \\ ;il ^p^as, a caster w ith d. hrlive bottle.-^ hH)k:> vorv ha liy. 

A tahh" laro;(^ c!a)U-!i t-r lifteen or twenty iiersons v. I'l 
requio i ,\ o castors. 

There are castors purposely lor aiiehwVj, . -y, cai, laip, ai/1 
other fish-sauces. They contain either four or six handsome 
bottles, all labelled. We consider the; i ne h ei- r w r. t 

m tie.,' comm"n our 'A lu' r idnc- 



brin<Tinn" fish-sauces to t.udo th 



inn- them in the coarse hla-k bottles in wbiHi they are^j)ut 



M]>. 



'i'Vn'da-M \'i"S. 1 oui of table-mats {^, \ \shich the India 

are the best) are indispensably necessary, to prrvf nt the boat 
of the dishes from Iravinjr white i; ak^ ' n ila ta'l . 'rii- ! . - 
priced mats < i' checkered straw uear uuL a le. k i . jdeccs so 
soon, that they are not worth buyinrr. ^Vo have seen very good 
and durable substitutes for India mats, made of thick oil-rloth, 
cut into an octagon shape and . f different sizes, lined under- 
neath with green baize or with stout woollen cloth, and l)ound 
round the edge with worsted ferret. The oil-cloth 1 r t'os 

2i 



y 



254 



TII i: II U SE BOOK. 



THE PWTRY. ETC. 



9rK 



puqjose looks host to bo of only one colour; tor instance, 
shadod greon or shadod brown. 

Littlo stands for toa-cups may be made in tliis niannor. 



K\IFIC RESTS. — Thoro should be a pair of these placed 
at each oiul of i\\v tahh', at tlio sides of the two principal disli(;s, 
lor llic purpos.' ofrocoivino- Uio kni^o and fork vviiou the carver 
lays tlioiii down, insicad of putlinir tliein into \\\v. dish. They 
\\u- soiiicliincs of ciiiiia, corrospondmo- with the dinner sot, aiul 
Very 1V( ([licnt! y of siivor. 



■nrTTER KNIVES.— Beside each butter phite shouhl he 
jtlacod a knife, -.is no person aceustonu'd t.-? crcjitcd sriciety will 
lie!}) himself to butler with his own knife. There are knivos 
witii silver blades inacie expn ssly for this j)urpose, '('hey arc 
best with silver hnudlt s; as t!io;>e of nsother-of-pearl ar(^ very 
liable to !)reak, or e.^iiie oil. 



ri\(iER (iLASSES. — Tliese are trcnorallv blue or L^reen, 
and are filled with water and set round the table, just bef)ro 
tlie eloth is reuiov* d, tor tb.e <'()nipany to dij) tin ir {inir^Ts in, 
ru[)bincr th<-ni with a slice of lemon or an oran(r,> Iraf, that is 
put into each n;Ia.ss for the i)tir()ose. Ev«>ry nlass is j)laced 
on a folded doily. 'J'he (!isL,nistir.<r Euro})ean custom of takiiijr 
a mouthful or two of the wat.er, and, after washin<j: the mouth, 
spitti.MfT it back iirrain into the fmirer ^rlass, has not lieeomo 
lashionable in America. NeithfT is it usual in r»ur rountry to 
place t(joth-picks on the table for the heiu^fit of the eompauy ; 
most v:i]nilnnn\ preforrin^r to pick ihi-ir tc etii and wash their 
mouths in private. 



TABLE-LINEN.— If the circumstanoes of the family will 
allow the expenditure, it is advisable always to g-et the table- 
linen (<f the best (piality ; as that widch is line and thick will 
last much lonoer and look much i)etter than if eomi)aratively 
coarse and thin. Ther(! is nothinfr of tiu^ sort superior to tin', 
best double French damask ; it bein<r not only tine and thick, 
but sot\ and f]^lossy, like satin ; and it looks as well after wash- 
injT as before. 'J'he appearance of all table-linen is imj)rove(i 
by being- mann;led in a machine, instead of ironin<i-. A tahie- 
elotb oufrht to l)e considerably larger than the tahle, so as to 
han<T down all round. . 



NAPKINS. — There are few genteel families who are not in 
the practice of usino; napkins at table, to spread on the lap 
while eating-, and for wiping the mouth and the finirers. 'J'he 
best size is about three-quarters square. It is now more cus- 
tomary to hem the napkins than to ravel them into a fringe. 
If tVincred, they must be afterwards uhippod with a needh' and 
thread, tf) s.cure them from raveHinif still fsrther. N-ajdvius 
With cedoured herders hxdv less <ront.eid than those tirat are all 
whil,e. The fine French double damask are the best and lr<md- 
soniest, and will last twice as lonjj as any others. For a dinner 
party it is customary to place tlu^ najdvins ow the table, niec ly 
f )lded in squares or diamonds, of whicdi tluTO are a variety of 
increnious forms. Bsit when the family din»' without eompany, 
or with only two or three iruests, the' naj)kins are usually folded 
s(juare, and then rolh'd up tightly and slipped into a ring- of 
silver, ivf)rv, ohony, or box-wood. These rinns are g-eiierally 
nu!id)ered or lettend ; and e-.ire should be taken to j'lace the 
napkin of eardi j)erson in his own ring. 

All table-linen should be marked in full with tln^ whole 
name of the funily. 



f 



250 



THE irOT'SE i\()() 



])()IMKS.-..;i'ii(.,P ;irp si,i;:ll inpkins inh iid. d i.ruipum- 
tha! ]>ur|)(.s('. 'J'Ik y arc very 'n^irrall}' ot' cf.i-nr. (I r^n. a 



\V!tl) a i/oFi!, !■• the C-lc; 



!i'> aiv (lark. tnat, Ihc stiiins 



: ! I a \' ) I : a 



(-'li^pi.-iaa-, on \\u ui. I lijrss lii 



:i>J, 



« y ;![•;■ \\a>^{K■(j V, ry Ik ija. nilv. 



tii.'V ;=<-'|''''*' ;' '-^i'iKT III, pleasant smrlKand an- i,wt aMiv. at.h. 
to use. WV li,ink It !H..t tol.avr whib^ ours, as tlicy aiv macli 
liin r, and {|„. M;Mns can easily he Riaovc d iron. Ihcni. I), alios 
arc ai\\av8 liinucd. 



si:rrix(; rifr: oixnkr TAiii.E.-ijdbrc y.a i.,,,. 

to set lla; Laui(;,M;c tlniL ev. ry ihinrr ic, ready and in ■■...! ..rdur; 
so that, afNr y-a, r^nrv .•onmn-nrr, yon may not have (.0 ,|uii na- 
tlH^ iairpnM.or niakini:s.)Hnlhina(dcan, ur of rcnicd v.n- . ane 
inc(ai\..nrncc. iTm wmt.T, first rpo that the firr is u,..i,;u,d 
'''■■^'"■""'■'•■'''"--'"•i !!i-jdalr>>eth(.i;,reit 1 n Ma • ].! a!r-u a faar. 
^'' -^'"''"^'•' '!""■'•. 1. !w he ^v^a^ attend m in-.j.a- iiiuc L. put- 
tin- fia' !,ottles mlu the cuuld, la anni- r.^ind ;h ni pieces of 
ice. AUo have ready, in one or ner. .aiall glass dishes oi 
saucers, a sufliciency of hri.jht clean ice, broken into small 
bits, (uiti, a des:.. rt ^p,„.n m .aeh .u-^h,) t: a- i ho purpose of 
iisini.- uhile at tald. n, c.d the :das.e. n\■^^ul.^ er Nvan r. 

'''*' '^"- '^i"i'"- i''''"l inio ihi. L ..hhai.r pne. ., or hiuck;> ; as 
It is not custuniary tu ..V.x hi- ad, evre])f ha- hreakfast and tea; 
nnd i ,ke ran. I'» hava. en-aerii ui tla- hr. ad-ha■d^et n, -^appl, ail 
''" i'' '■-"'- '-' -^'1'' ^M!!i ;i -^'-.aai ja.ee, n' r, .[uired. It is 
exin ia,{y aukward Lo ho ohinM d to r, ph ni-^h ihr hread-ha^d.. t 
inthPnddstofdinn-T. s-,,, ,!,|,,,„„,,^„,,^ p- rinips, waitincr 
I'-r i! n. the mean tiaa . Kv^y linn. inay i,c so arrano-ed 
before-hand that the waiter v iM T,ef h ive occasion to leave Uie 
room dirinjT the progress of the dinner. 

I It lay down the crumb-clotii ; and ilun, it there is a 



1 



I 



SETTING THE P T V \ E R TABLE. 



257 



woollen cover on the dining-tahle, remove it before you ])nt on 
the Hum cloth, wjiieh must be laid smootlily and evenly, so us 
not to hun<j;' down more on oik^ side than on another. lUinir- in 
the thinrics (as many at a time as you can) on your tray. Set 
your plates round tin; tahk^ one for evt^y person, hut phire tlnnn 
at the sides only, except those that are intended fi^r the master 
and mistress of the house, who of course occupy the two (iids, 
and will not h<^ able t<) carve so eonveidently if any one is 
seated beside them. 

It is always h( Iter to have too mu(di space than tr>o litt];'; 
and It is theatorc^ advisable to set a table r.Ulier too larire fur 
the com})any, than one that is in the h ast too small. We have 
seen a wiiole dinner party made uncomfortable all tlu' lime, 
from bein<r crowded at a talde ()f insullicient size ; and m warm 
weather, ]>artieularly, this is no tritlinajr inc()nvenience. 

liavinp^ Set round the ])lates, lay a knif(^ mid lork in froid eif 
each ; and if tlH.'r(^ is soup, a sprxni ; also setlieaj; a seaij) plate 
nn ea(di of the flat nues. At ea(di corner fd' the t ddo la.v two 
spoons across, and put (.tin r spuen-^ w iierr vt r d!/!). -> aa'e i. > be 
set. Havi' a s,dt-eel!ar at eacdi cnriu r, i'etweeii the huwis ot 
the crnssed speu^ns. In Some bouses it is custninarv to ke(>p 
the (Mstors fill the side-itoard, to h( iianded i)y the waiter as 
thev may be required. 'I'his \\(^ think inconvenif nt. particular! v 
where ther(^ are Itut one or tw.a waiters, and tiuht ur ten pers ais 
at table. We S(i' no very r(a?<n^(i})!i obp'cti'ai \n havin'_i the, 
castors on the dinintr tahle. If ther<' are two sets rd" castors, 
plac(^ in the middle of the tal)le the salatl bowl or the crdery 
(rlass; unless there is company to dinner, and the ct aire, per- 
haps, is (;ccupied by a fdateau, an ( peri/ne, a vase ot fh»w. rs, 
or siune other ornann rit. 

It' there are to l)e two (arire dislies, place a carvine knih- and 
fork, and a iarji*^ (j^ravy spoon, fir each. Fir soup, place the 



o.> « 



2^H 



l II K FT O 1' ^ ': T' O n i: 



:'t the In<4. Also knives, !:.rKs,;uHi si,nens Ini liiO side dl^hcs. 
At iht lc!'i iii!ti,l ni' ,v( rv |)1;H<> p!,uT n tiim!.!. r. :,f|,i ,,,,,, ,,^ 
mnrr Avin; --ilass, s, ;i<-rnr.lin-' t) t|,,. v;m.tv el' w m; s !h:;f ;,,-<> 
^" '"■ '"''''^':'i't to l;,|,i,.: ,t h.uvx vuMnui-Ai-y lo ,ln:,K ci-ii; i, ,,1 
wiiirs out ui' (liilrn til soris ol'nlnssrs; tlio f^i-hiMi;:!,!^ <rias3 
f>^r rnrli \^ino varvinir s, ,}>,.(;. :ci)!lv. that i! i^ (iiiiioiilt in ii:is 
resoM-t t. ,iv. anvr.I-s. Tno uoranvrs aro to .land lu ar the 
cnriu r>. It i:s now u^^iau at laanv tables to Imvo a siiia]] v\ at- r- 
l-n!o (hol.Iinrr about a pi-,:) pia.. d Pv tho sMo of every plate, 
ti^^t .a-i, p(3rson laav pou.- -at uai.r Ur illa,^. IC A overthe- 
less, iiaa-r dioula aiuav.^ !>o u at. r-p!tri|, rs en t!|.-- si,]^-;aMp, 
to rrplrni^li ll-Pbottl-'s v. Ian lu-cessapv, wia tl„ r !a,u-,. or sn.ai! 
ones are use<i nn tho ta!,lo. i,, .uama r, ^^ja•a, i;!;,.;, i!,o 
I''-'''^^''-- j"i' l^vn .a- tluvo luiiips ,.}■ irr iato rarli. 

-■^' '^"' ^'•''^' '-'^'i-i* ^' rvplaiopat t lie napK a: aa-! t la • bread, 
^''^■"" '"'■'' !'"■•' ""' ■'■ •^'•' !':<::. i-!.asket uilh a ibrk. At 
(iina. r-parties it is usual to iiave each napkin nicely folded in 
a diamond or other form, and the l)read laid in the centre, 
covered by one of the comers. < »a ah occasions it is very 
customary to liavo liyhi 1 ,. nH. rolLs in:.tcad . f pieces of cut 
bread. 

^^'- ''^' ^''^-''^'i- phiro a v.ai:.r or traj p,r Joceiving the 
dish-covers, plates, ui.h, ., .v., ih.it are removed from the table 
after nsino. AK,. , KaiH -haH. :. 1: is a jrood custom to keep 
there always at inm. r-ta,ie (as mentioned m a lormer pa<?e) a 



'•ir;4< *:aii ur inn'^ it' pai.a. 



!a' ( 



iv tna lillrr] ^^itl| ]| a 



which to plunge the I^Jades of tlie knives as they are taken from 
table, that the grease^may not have time to dry on them. To 
wipe a knife or fork and return it to the table, is not an arrree- 
able custom ; as, without a regular cleanino-, they will always 
smell and taste of the things for which thpy have just been 



s E T r ! \ n T H F. r» i x x t: r r a [•, t. e , 



2r)9 



,,!,,, 



u.C'l ; "f fisli, ola^t se, or niuons, parlicular! y. In all fainilios 
ihat aiv aJiia to live oct.taolly, thraa- sliouhi h(^ a siifTic'uMicy of 
],nivo>, U'jl^i, S.'\. to ail-rsl (u'-^li chain (UifS as oUiai as \Ui) 
nPi^rs an' <'ha!a'-( ,1. It i ; waH, (^V( n in small privata t'amiln-, 
to have un ih" siJi.-tahla some extra j)l it<--;. kn!V(-s, -^lasses, 
(*la-., in c-A^r of a fri( nd rorniriQ- in unoxport(-tUy, ;m.i r^aa^ant- 
iia'- {■< >!! <lM\\.i and take dititaT ; this will procliido tho lu'ces- 
siiv of sendiu" a sarvaait, oat of iha roMin to hrin^" ila^ai ; 
ha'sj.h'S whicli. thrv will i)a a.t hau't, i'.i ca'-i' they may acci- 
dent 'd'v be wrmtod for otli( r jaai-pf-.os. 



The side-iraaid is tin' plara, f 



tla- (Xtr.l In^nh's, uai:a--as. 



silver, china, fruif, <^c., that may ho napnn d al tlsa das-ial, 'T 
after the rh ih \-- riaiaav.d. Thrsa aatii'h'S m;yV hi' so d.isposed 
(ai iiif sida-huard as tu luakc a Vi ay hand^'ano app* 'i-incf^, 
])arti.-a: i r I V wlion it ]a^> a marble top, and i> ii'diied i.p hT an 
(Viaia"" dnaaa'-ji a'l \a 'Idm ^-aif-h;:ad a-; al-o la-' phaa- l.^r 
handoonia wal<ar-pitcliar.s, (lag-. r-;^-lasses, and silv( r uail. rs. 

When diiaier is ready, 1)ri!a_r in your dishes on the tray, set- 
ting it down on the tray-stand. Each dish should have a 
cover. Tf there is soup, set iliu tureen at the head of the 
table, to be helped l>v tla snistress of the house; ai. ! it there 
is fish also, place that at the fool of the table. Sh a! i there 
be only oia. oi" thta-c artiides, pul ii btl'ort tuc la ly's seat, and 
place the largest .^i-h f la* at or poultrv at tlio bottom. Set 
the side dishes opposite to .ah tiaa; aai in arranging the 
vegetables, do la! id a:e tuigathar taus'a thai ,ir*' na'st similar. 
For iastaauie, do la ; pa! poas and Itoan^ ra-'Xt to r-i^!i nthar ; 
or sweet potatoes and w i at' potatoes; m parsneps and carrots; 
or squashes and mashed lurmps. 1l would l)o still worse, 
when thcreare two dishes of each vegetable, (as is generally the 
case at a large table,) to place together both dishes of asparagus, 
or both dithes of cauliflower. Tl-'-y should be made to match 



260 



THE iroUSi: BOOK. 



cross fornrrs, (as it is call(>d,) placincr one on oacli side of the 
table, not directly opposite, but diagonally or slaiitin<r. 

Attempts have been made to introduce the Enaljsli fasliion 
of keepin^r all the vegetables on the side-table, th.> waiters 
brinjrinjr eacli one se})arately to the tabb^, as it may Ik- ask(Ml 
lor by any person that wishes it, and then carryin<r it back 
acrain. Wo think this custom too tedious and too troublesome 
to beccmie very (reneral in America. Unless the waiters are 
very alert, and amply sufficient in number, it is well not to nive 
them any unnec(>ss;iry addition to th(>ir indispensable, l)usiness. 
Befor*' dinner, let the cold pastry be placed in the side-board 
closet, that it may b(! at hand wIhmi wanted for tlx; table; or 
(dse, if tlie p;intry is close to the dininnr room, it may be set out 
there, coveriun; it with a clean cloth to k'-ep the Hies from it. 
Covers of fmo black wire net are very useful fur fruit and 
sweetmeat dishes. 

Boii(-d puddin^rs are always eaten warm, and should not be 
taken out of the pot, till a few minutes before they m) to tabh'. 
^Vheu the family are neiirly rv.uly for the puddniLr, the w:iiler 
slKUild riMLr the bell iutr. the kitchen, an. 1 th(M^<H)k wiil mmuI 
se^me one, or come herself, to meet him with the puddin<r, at 
the dinin<:;-ro()m door. 

In placincr the dishes, see tliat they are all set perfectly 
straiirht and even, and that each has near it the proj^er sauce 
or K^ravy. Afterwards arran^r,, the (diairs rmind the tabh' ; and 
if it is winter, put tiie chair-scr<(>ns, if you. have them, on those 
that are nearest the fire. If it is summer, see that the sashes 
are raised, and the Venetian blinds rirawn down, turisin^r the 
slats, so as to make th(> rooui suir!ei(>ntl v li^'ht. Then oivp 
notice that dinner is ready, rither by rinanur the .liimer^hrii, 
soundimr il„- .^nin;, as may be the custom of the fmiiiy ; or hy 
operunpr the drawing-room door, and advancing a little towards 



I 



WATT IX O 0\ TATTLE. 



20 1 



the ladiV of tlie liouse, and bowinif to h( r. This last is tlie 
i.iosl u^iual mode ol announcement wlun tlu r(; is company io 
ditiner. 

Jl" the diiuKM \< in tlie 'oveninn-, s( •' tfint tbf h'.mi!:-., eandles, 
tVe., are all lo liood order betore you ])!ac(~ thi ni on t!ie t;il)io. 
'I'he t;dde should be very well liobiod, ])artici!l;ir!y at a ('iiuscr 
])artv. If t!i'' dinneT is to couimence in da\!i!j!"ht. ae.d it is so 
iaie in the alternoon that there is any ])ossil>il!ty <i' its h( mg- 
jTotracted til! after sunset, it is best to close the w indows and 
li'jht ih'' eaiiii h s ;;t once; as it is e\!n iiielv i;ncoi!ifortal)|r !o 
have tlu- eeuipany overtaken by the ul.iom oj" t\\ilijj,ht, and 
(i!di'j-cd to w;iit ;'!niest in darkness wbilo tlie li;'lits are prepnr- 
iD'j;. Seoadso that the entry laanj), stair lamps, (V;e.. are liL'ined 
in rarlv tiieo- so tlmt tlie 'aiests luav have ne» dilTieuity m 
iiutimL'' lis' ir v.av, and tha.t the servants rnay not be lirdd.p to 
hioidv tiiiuL's by .--teuddiui:; with tli< ni in the dark. 



/ 

f 



WMTIM; on T MlLi:. — Win n attending on trd.le yon 
should always be cleiii nnii o' iiiy dr.-i ; as nothing, at such 
a ii;,i-, t.-. more disgur^tioL;- liiaii a greasy, slovenly, shal-;)}- 
lookiiiu' V. -.iiter. A good waiter, wlm has a proper rrsprct for 
iiiiu-^i ! r .iM'l !, 1 . 1 ill p'ov. rs, v\ ill ;• i\\ ,:\ ■-. jo:l mo a eh ;iii collar 
befor( dooM r, ai,d a cie.ui uiiiio ;ipr(,'n; l.'Knej; caie llial no 
p.iri oi' i,is dress is < i'lar diriv '!■ rmj'o d. It" ho i > prudi-nt and 
^o!)(r, hr~ wan-es w I'i! i-.-ilv ur.ililf Imu to w.ar d( n oi ojothes 
on ^\t(k-days as wi!i as on Sunday, 'i'iii re arc doiae.^Lics 
(w'onien as well as nu n) who do not scruple to go about the 
house, and appear before the family and their \i iters, almost 
in the garb of beggars, A\'bile all tb'ir money is saved ioi liie 
purchase of holi.;. \ f o- ry. A n-t this disrespectful and 
revolting practice the head < l ihe family sheui 1 J ], o^i ny ti.e 



262 



T H E li O U H E BOO K. 



W A I T I N G ON T A R I, E , 



263 



effeot of remonstrance; for if passed over or connived at, it will 
g-row into an absolute nuisance. 

For a waiter, wliile PUirivrvd m }iis busint^ss, a round jacket 
IS more convenient and appropriate than a b)n(r coat ; and i,, 
summer liis clothes sfiould be of materials that vviil wash. 
8hoes are more convenient for him than boots, as they are h-ss 
noisy; and being liohter, he can move about in them with mon^ 
alertness. Presumintr it to be a (dean one, his sliin-conar 
should always appear above his cravat when drest for waitii^r 
on table; as the want (»f somethinir white ah. nit the neck will 
giv(.- any man ((;ven a jrentleman) a dincry and dirty apjx^arance. 
When attendincr at dinner, he should have on his hands a pair 
of clean white cotton gloves; always, at least, if there is com- 
pany. He should never wait at table without a small server 
in his hand, on which to receive or carry round plates, knIve^s, 
venr..tabb> dishes, the br.ad-bask. t, and whatever mny be 
wanted; -.md in the other hand he should hold a napkir./vviih 
which to t.ke hold of thr plates, <^c., when ehan<riu.r ,h.,,.,. 
Whether In- b:,s rr]ovr. uo <,r not. Uio napkin ouLrht on n.. 
account to be omitted; and he shoul.l hold the plate !)y iho 
edge of the rim (.nly. VV,> have seen the rim of a plate vrry 
disa,Treeably marked by t\w ihund> of a dirty-handed wait.r, 
who had no naj)kin. 

The master of the housr will, before dimi.T, have rrivm yo,i 
his orders r<sj)cctinir tin' win* s. 

After you have announced the dinn(r,and in id tlie door opr:i 
till the company have all .mno intr, the dinin>r-rrMMn, shut it, 
(•mloss in sninm.T,) and aft.T tlnv arr s.atcd, tak. oi]' tln^ 
c.)vers of tln^ soup or fi>h ; ;ind, till those arc done uiih. !, :ive 
ihv othrr dislips .'over. (L When the sonn and fi>h nrr rmiov, ,1, 
uncover the other thinirs, bcn-innini: at ihc bottom di>h on the 
left-hand side. In taking oil the covers, turn them nj. (pnckly, 



J 



that the drops of greasy steam on the inside may not fall on tho 
tabloclotli. Deposit them for the present in the tray, till there 
is an o})portunity of carrying them out. 

If you are the oidy waiter, take your station at the bottom 
of the tabh% about a yard trom the person that is carving, and 
a little to th(^ left of iiis chair: this will give you an opportu- 
nity of seeing what is wanted, much better than if you stood 
exactly Ixdiind him. If there are two attendants, the second 
should plac(> himsf If in the same manner near tln^ lady of the 
Iiouse. If there are four, two slujuld stand at the sidf^s of tho 
tabh- ; lujt exactly opposite to each othfM", but one ratlier nearer 
to the top, the oIIkt sonu^wliat nearer to the bottom. All 
should be drest as nearly as possible alike, and every one 
should hav*! a white apron, while gloves, a small s<TVf r or 
hand-waiter, (which is frerpiently of silver,) and a rsapkin. 

(Jo first to each of the ladies, and in a low voice inquire what 
you shall brinir tln'Ui. AI'kt they are all hel[)ed, attend to tluj 
gentlemen. When you hold a plate to tlu' carver, stand at his 
i( ti-hand ; and wlien vii take O t.) the perr>on for whom it is 
inteniled, goto t.he lel't side also. Hand n.')thing to anv oni^ 
without hrst }dacing it on your small s<^rver ; anil always go 
to tht^ bdt si(h', exce[)t when you are hllin<r a <rlass with water, 
cnh^r, or beer ; then go to the right, as the tumbler stands on 
that side; and be careful that you do not pour it too full, so as 
to run it over and wet the cloth. 

After (wery (>ne has been ludped by the carvers, take tho 
vegetable disln^s, two at a tiute, on your hand-waiter, and carry 
them round to each of the (^jinpany. If the attendants are 
alert, and sufficient in number, therc^ will be no occasion lor 
any juTSons ,\\ table to oiler, or to retjuire being helped to Vege- 
tables, s;nices, <S.c., by each other; and no lady or gentleman 
ac(^ustomed to dining in company, will have any hesitation 



2t;t 



T H i: H () r's i: p. oo k 



W A I T I N (J O N TAB T, E. 



265 



I 



:!])M!t n-ldnir llic ,!oi,u sties t^r w hiUcv. r tlicy \\Mnt ; Hi^-i. ,,,1 of 
«ir|)( u-iiiiM-f n tlic srrvi.-f ,; of ilitn liiuius, or wtiitJi.-' vr.\ k^^ nrdly 
and ^ \\i iitiv, in ihr i,. p, tlmt somo one in-y «'li;i!ifc i>. ;>. re ivc 
'-•■!: 'i' -ti!!ii!(.n ;:n(i (-.me lo tin ir n lici'. 

The Mi.itcr, i,')U('v,r, ^htuld lo(ik out aiUiUivcly, .n.i w].r n 
ii;' j':i<-t iv( s tli;ii hrcnd, water, snnrr, (Sjc, is \\:n!ir-i, lir,J,.)i.M 

hniiu; it, cv. 11 wilh.Mir ix inn- tnld. li,. shcuM ;il,.o alii !;,! -;,r. 

'-•i.i.uly to any v. ry ynunj.- ,,r rvRlrnily incx])erU'nciM! jxtsot^'^ 
whose difr-dfiiro may pn vrnt tlmm fr.,rn n- king- fbr themselves. 

"^^ •^' " >'"' r« ■'•• 'Vc !ii,:t all tin. r, mpany have done w iin ilie 
meat, poniny, ,'•.,•., k( < p youi- eye on the lady ol iiic )if)iist\ and 
sh(- \m:1 nnd.<>nsi'-n f Tyrm to lakn away th- pk h s and remove 
the dishes. In doinu- sn, lakn ln;ld (,C thn (ii.d:< s hinnv. the 
larger ones m JMin hauds, and sec ihat y, a jn; t!,,-iM i,h-h 
enouoh lo ei,-;!- !ho ^das^rs, \e. !i i, w,.ii t^, ,in-- Ik, IhII 
first, as-a sio-iial l-r ike c.^.l^ to Jiavr madv ik.- j;a-;lr\\ \ a., 
^^kiail ni Ainriiea 1:= -eiieraily lerna d ihedi^sserl; ilaaiok in 
Europe the dessert signifies only the Tan and other ikin; a tin; 
are put on the table with the wine, after the eloth is r< .ieved. 

As you l.J.e the plates, j^r^i tk,^m ( n. tht; tray or on the side- 
table, if v^n laivo n<. j.ja'i -ka>kri ; and deposit tia' knives in 



tia' Ivhiic-lrav 



kiulk-kadvi t. w ! 



in 'i sk'udd iie niaiS' \\ ilii a 



division i r the lorks. Do ail tia-; r\p< ili;i..ns!v. and u ulnml 
noise. I'hen take a fnr]. in. -aa !i;ind. -nd a, iar-r nl ;;, m iho 
other, and q-o round and eolleot all Ma pieees of bread i no may 
be [>A\ on ihe tabic. i\« M. |;;k:' \:.v.r ornink-krnsk niM n -inal] 
server, aial v?^ r< end ao.i nravh .arali tar (a-nnibs. \\ k( n liicre 
is dinner ebrnpnny, i! i , va ry ( a. a naiiy to spr- ..i iwo damask 
cloths on tin; udjle, ihe npja r . n.- to he taken r\T an] carried- 
away, after the meat, \r., i< i m v,.!; Navitn.r beneath it a 
clean one for the past! \ aea! (a nk olnaairy. \\ i,< n yuLl Lolii-r 
!i2 these articles, arrange them so a.^ to lor k hrra]< Tnrly. jdaoinir 



in the centre of the table the largest and most conspicuous. 
Beside a dessert plat(^ and a small knife and fork, set, if neces- 
sary, a saucer and a spoon to each person. At this time there 
should always f)e on the table small vessels of glass or silver, 
containing powdered loaf-sugar, with a little sugar ladle in each, 
m case any of the articles should require more sweetening. 

The usual time for eating salad or lobster is between the 
meat an<l the pastry. Tfiese things are generally drest by some 
one at table, (frcquenlly a tedious business,) and handed round 
to the conipany. !t is, perhaps, more eonveni( nt to have them 
drest immfdialclt/ before dinner, and brought to table in a large 
t'lass l)owd. 

This also is the usual tnne for eating cheese. 
When tlie company have done with the rordectionary, the 
hntrer <rlasses should l)e bromdit on liand-waiters, setting one 
glass befon> each j)prson ; after which, the napkins having been 
returned to tlu' table, remove them all. 

Finally, (dear every thing off the table; and, turning up the 
clotli all round, take it up by the edges, and carry it awaiy to 
be shaken out. Then put on the wine, fnnt, and cake, with 
the powdered sugar, in case it should \w wanted. Set for ev(^ry 
p,erson a small [)late, a fruit knif(\ (those made f.r th(> purpose 
are generally oi' silver,) a m!t-})icker, and a doily for tin; fingers. 
The nuts should be cracked Ixdore they are brought to table, 
and done (arefuUy, so as to divide them in half, and not crush 
them to atoms. 

Set on the wines and fruit so a;^ to match cross-corners, and 
Ihe laro-e cake in \hv centre; and })lace on the table one or more 
pit(diers of ice-water, standing on small waiters, with a few 
tumblers roend them. If in summer, set un also the saucers 
of broken up ic(>. I^-move tho things frf)in the side-table with 
as little noise as possible; aftf r whicli you may leave the 



4; H 



266 



THE I! or; Si: book. 



\VAl'llN(i UN TAHLK. 



267 



dining-rooiri, as your srrvices will he no loiirrer required tlieie. 
Let the articles on tlie side-board remain undisturbed till alYer 
the company has adjr,urnpd lo the dra\vin<r.-room, or de'.artetl. 

Durin^r dinner, s(.me one should He,> that the drawinn-nmm 
fire is burnm^^ woli, and, if it is evenin^r, that the lamps are 
Jij^hted, both there and on th(> wav thither. 

ill the mean time you may s,e lo the washintr of the ir]as8( s, 
silver, <!v-c.; countinn- all the articles ofpiate,and puttm-r them 
away carefully. 

At (immT parties of o-entlemen only, it is usual to jiave <-olTce 
broujrht i„ ^vhen they have sat a certain time over the wme and 
fruit. The coffee iinist he made very stroufx and clear, and 
handed round on a waiter with tln^ suir;,r dish and milk oirr • 
nothinnr is eaten with it. The time for hrincrinjr it in will he 
denoted by an order from the mistress of the house, or by the 
master rin^rinjr the dinincr-room IxdL Afi,er colfet^ the <rentle- 
men usually depart. If ther.- are ladies at the dinner, they will 
leave the laltle with their !if>st(>>s when slu' makes iIh- siunal, 
and remain with lar iii thr <!rawiiiLr.r(,oin, uher,. >h, will smd 
for the LTentlemrn tn juin thean a! tea. The waiter will tiien 
be wanted to carry round the tea and colfee. 

When the dininnr-room is vacated by tin- ^rentlenn n, let \hv 
table he (deared as soon as prssiide, ami wi])ed clean: puUimr 
the wine, <^c., carefully awav. 

With rejrard tu desserts at dinner parties, a very excellent 
fashion prevails in sr.nu' parts ,,f the uhl world, whndi inmbt 
he introduced to much advanta(re m the new; particularly m 
warm weather, and in larL-'e h^aises where lher(> is n.. want of 
rooms. It is to hav a s,},arate ta!)ie for the dessert, set euit m 
another ajKirtment, (.jmeridly one nprninrr into the- n-;,rd(ii.) 
When tin- comj)anyhave finished the meats, c^c, th. y are ,-(,n~ 
ducted into the cool fresh dessert-room, and take their seats at 



1 



I 



the tal>le, where there h.is !)een time and opportunity to arrange 
tlie articles of confectionary so as to ])roduce a much more ele- 
gant elTect than when brought in one at a time to replace the 
dishes that have just been removed. Meanwhile, the first table 
can b(; clearcul comj)lelely, and witii more convenience tliau 
when done in presence of the company. 

Another advantatre of havinjr the dessert table set out in 
another room is, ibat it oivt^s the guests an o}>portunity of 
cliancin"- partnsTs. 

The j)reparati()ns b»r a dinner party should b«^ commenced 
tlie day ixfore. The waiter should ha.ve a bill of fare <.riven to 
him in time, that he m.iy i^now what arrangements to make in 
his dejiartment. 

It will bf^ seen that ihe foregoinn- dir< ctioiis fir waiting on 
table refer particularly (but not exclusively) to large dinners. 
Any waiter that is cbve^ in his attendance on company, will 
be ecjuallv so ^^ hen his services are rtnpiired on a smaller scale, 
and when llure are none at table but the fonily. In genteel 
boiiscs tlie arramjemraits of a family dinner should br> so een- 
daeled, tlia.l th,'' wait( r, Iseing •<u'<'usto!n( d evory day to setting 
the ta.ble idci ly. and wait log oii il jiroijeriy, will not leel the 
bast a.t a bss wlion be is roojoiied to d(« so f r company. If 
tin- family fill into lb(> had. it of waitino i,n themsilves when 
they are ab m , the doniesiu-s (liesides losing some ed' their 
resp. ct fir them) sot n ^d out of practice: vrnd wlien tliere are 
straiciers at dmnir, become so ixvvildered and awkvvard as ire- 
(piently to cause much vexation. 

Seine families wish to dispense witli the pr<s( nee .,fs.rvan1>} 
a! meal-timis. coaisidoi ii.o them a r<s!r;iint on the trcedom ot 
cor.vorsation. W lion il.is i> t!ie case, tlio little round tables 
calh d duiub-w alters arc very usrtii], |;l;:cniij: one of tliem behind 
every two persons. On these are placed cb-n pbilcs, knives, 



268 



THE JlUUSE IJOOK. 



CARVING. 



269 



forks, and u iiatevcr iii;iy lie wanted ; and each has a shelf 
below, on which to set away the dirty plates, &c. 



CARVING. — The seat for the carver should hesomewliat 
elevated above the other chairs : it is extremely ungracc-ful to 
carv(> standino-, and it is rarely done by any jierson accustomed 
to the business. Carvintr depends more on skill than on 
stn-uiTth. We have seen vviy small women carve admirably 
sfttino- down; and very tail men who knew not how to cut a 
j)i<('e of b(;ef-steak without risincr on their feet to do it„ 

The carvinjr knife should he very sharp, and not heavy ; and 
it should be litdd firujly m the hand: also the disli should ho 
ijot t(jo far from the c;irver. It is eustoniary to help the fish 
\vith a fish trow(d, and not with a knife. The middle part of 
a lish is jreuerally considered the best. In helpincr it, avuid 
br» akina the Hakes, as that will ^rive it a man<rled appearance. 

In carvinir ribs or sirloin of heef, be<rin bycuttinir thin slices 

Oflf the side 11. xt to vou. Afterwards you may cut from the 

l<'iider-loin, or cros.-part li-^ar t!ie h>vvrr end. Do not srnd any 

one thr outsi<Ir j.ieee, unless y.Mi ]slu>^^ that they partieularly 
uish It. 

In hel])iri(T heef-steak, put mwie dflho [joue on tlH> j)lat<-. 

In cuttin(,r a mund of er.ri.rd 1„ (f, heum at the toj. ; hut lay 
■Asu\r th," first cut or r.ulside pi. ce, and send it to ne fine, as it 
is always dry and hard. In a r.amd of (i-h-modt hr,f, the out- 
side is fre(juently preferred. 

In a h rr ,d' mutton, heirin across tlie middle, cuttm^r tho 
slices (juiti; d(Avn to the hone, 'j'he sanu' with a le^r of j>r,rk 
•T ''^ bam. The latl-r stiould lie eiit m rrry (Inn slices, as its 
flavour Is sjMijit (i V, li, n cut ihirk. 

lo taslc w-ii, ;i nii^iiir siiMuld 1)- cut crossways in round 
sli'-"^. rultmn li himlhw.iv. (Uu.umI, il,,. |,ractic( at many 



tables) injures thn flavour. Tlie middle part of the tongue is 
tho best. Do not help any one to a piect^ of the root; that, 
being l)y no means a favourite part, is geiu^ally left in the dish. 
In carving a fore-quarter of lamb, first separate the shoulder 
part from the breast and ribs, by passing the knife under, and 
then divide the ribs. If the lamb is large, have another dish 
brought, to put the shoulder in. 

For a loin of veal, beuin near the smallest end, and separate 
the ribs; helping a part of the kidney (as fir as it will go) ^ 
with each piece. Carve a loin of pork or mution in tl>e same 
manner. 

In carving a fillet of veal, begin at the top. Many persons 
prefer the first cut or outside piece. Help a portion of the 
BtulfiP'^ with each slice. 

In a breast of veal, there are two parts very ditTerent in 
(juality, the ribs and the brisket. You will easily perceive the 
division; enter your knife at it, and cut through, which will 
separate the twr. j)arts. Ask the persons you are going to help, 
wiiriher they pri ter '.i rib. or a piece ot the brisket. 

For a luuinch ot' venison, hrst makc' a deep incision, by pass- 
inu- vour knife all alonir the side, c\itting (juite down to the 
bone. This js to let out the gravy. Then turn the broad end 
of the haunch towards you, and cut it as d(>ep as you can in 
thin, smooth slices, allowing some of the fat to each person. 

For a saddh^ of venison, or of mutton, cut from the tail to 
the other end on each side o'i tlu» back-bone, making very thin 
slices, and sending some fat with each. Venison and roast 
mutton chill very soon, theref)ri' it is usual to eat it with iron 
he;iters under the })late.-,. Some healers are madti to c(jntain 
Itol co.ils, others are kept warm with boiling water, and bomu 
are heated hy spirits of wim-; the last is a very excepti(»nabld 
mode, as the blue l)laze tlammo- r.ut all round the plate, is to 

ov * 



r^ 



270 



T UK H O T 5: E BOO K. 






many persons frightful . Currant jelly is an indispensable 
appendage to venison, and to roast mutton, and to ducks. 

A young pig is most generally divided before it comes to 
table, in which case, it is not custoinary to send in the liead, 
as to many persons it is a revolting spectacle after it is cut off. 
When served up whole, first separate the head from the shoul- 
ders, then cut olf the limbs, and then divide the ribs. Help 
some of the stuffing with each piece. 

To carve a fowl, begin by sticking your fork in the pinion, 
and drawing it towards the leg; and then passing your knife 
underneath, take off the wing at the joint. Next, slip your 
knife between the leg and the body, to cut through the joint ; 
and with tlie fork, turn the leg back, and the joint will give 
way. Then take of]^ the other wing and leg. If the fowl has 
been trussed (as it ought to be) with the liver and gizzard, 
help the liver with one wing, and the gizzard with the other. 
The liver wing is considered the best, lifter the limbs are 
taken off, enter your knitV into the top of the breast, and cut 
under th,' merry-lhouuht, so as to lor.-^cii it, lifting it with y(Mir 
fork. Al\erwards cut slices from both sides of the breast. 
Next take off the collar-bones, which lie on each side of the 
merry-thought, and then separate the side-bones from the back. 
The breast and wings are considered as the most delicat(> parts 
of the fowl; the back, as the least desira!)!e, is generally left 
in the dish. Some persons, in carving a fowl, find it more 
convenient to take it on a plate, and as they separate it, return 
each part to the dish ; but this is not now the usual way. 

A turkey is carved in the same manner as a fowl; ox.>e|)t 
that the legs and wings bf^ing larger, are separated at the lower 
joint. The lower part of the leg, (or drumstick, as it is called,) 
being hard, tough, and stringy, is nrv.r belprd to any one, but 
allowed to remain un the dish. Tiist cut olf (be uing. leg. 



CARVING. 



271 



i 

i 



and breast from one side; then turn the turkey over, and cut 
them off from tlie other. 

To carve a goose, separate the leg from the body, by putting 
the fork into the small end of the limb; pressing it close to 
the body, and then passing the knife under, and turning the leg , 
back, as you cut tlirough the joint. To take olV the wing, put 
your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it closely 
to the body ; then slip the knife under, and separate the joint. 
Next cut under the merry-thought, and take it olf; and then 
cut slices from the breast. Then turn the goose, and dismem- 
ber the otlH^r side. Take off the two upper side-bones, that 
•are next to tiui wings; and then the two lower side-bones. 
Th.^ breast and legs of a goose atTord tlu> finest pieces. If a 
goose is old, there is no fowl so tough ; and if diilicult to carve, 
it will be still more difficult to eat. 

Partridgos, ])heasants, grouse, &c., are carved in the same 
manner as fowls. Quails, woodcocks, and snipes an. merely 
split down the bark ; so also are pigeons, giving a half to each 

pt-rson. 

In helping any one to gravy, or to nuH.d !)Utter, do not pour 
it ovfv their meat, fowl, or iish, but put il to one side on a 
vacant part of the plate, that the>y may use just as much of it 
as they like. In filling a plate, never heap one thing on 

another. 

In helping vegetables, do not plunge tb(^ spoon down to ihv, 
bottom of the dish, in case they should not have bet>n perfectly 
well drained, and the waU r should have settle<l there. 

!}y observing carefully how it is done, you may acquire a 
knowledge of the joints, and of the process of carving, which 
a Utile iiuily practice will soon conv.rt into dexterity. If a 
youna lady is ignorant of this vorv useful art, it wiU bo well 
lur her io lake lessonis of her faMu r, or h.r brother; and a 



272 



THE HO I'. si: no ok. 



I) R AWING roll L T R Y , I : I' C . 



273 



I 



married lady can easily learn from her husband, Domrstir-s 
who wait at table may soon, from Jookinor on daily, beeonn! so 
ex]u>rt that, when n( eessnry, tiny can take a dish to tbc side- 
table and earve it perfectly well. 

At a dinner party, [( tbc hostess is quite yonn<T, she is fre- 
quently n-lad to bo rclicvt d of the tronble of carviiiu- by Uie 
gentleman wbo sits nearest to her; but if she is familiar with 
the business, siie usually prefers doing it herself. 



TO DRAW POri/rKV, ,lr.-_Thou.Th to prepaiv poultry 
for ro,,k!ii<r js by no means an agreralde business, yet sotnr; 
kno\vb>d(ro of it may Ite very useful to tbc mistress of a bouse, 
in case slie should have occasinu to instruct a s<Tvant in tln^ 
manner of doinn- h ; or in the pf)ssible event of her beinir ^)l>li^od 
to do It berself; for insl;inee, if ber cook lias iKM'n suddenly 
taken ill, or bas b It !ier unexpeetedly. 

As all })(.ultry is, of ccairse, drawn in the same manner, it 
\Mil i)e sufTieniit In desi.r-nate tbe m(„io of emptvinir tde inside 
<^'<' '^ '"^^■'- ''^ ^vifit. r. if tl:,- j;,\\| !. ir.>/,n. lav it \u u,r,. ,|,,. 
fi'-<' I'ii 1' ba. rnmpirtelv tbav.a (!. 'j'hen have ready one or 
more larnv jueees of waste parx-r. mllod up loosely into a lon^r 
Wi^p; lay tbe f.w! down on a r\r;m j.art ..f tbe ii< artb, and, 
f-.ikmn- its lei^rs in vour band, ii<rbi the pajM r, and pass it back 
aiid f award above tbe snrfire r,r the skin, (liirninLr ih,. inwl on 
b-:b sides,) so as to sin<re otfal! tbebairs; dninf^ it soeareluHv 
;'- n, t to burn or seorcl. tbe skin. There should always be a 
quantity of iAd n. wspapers, or otber waste paper, kept in a 
closet or draw, r of tiie. kit, -ben f -r tins and .itln r purposes. 
N''\t. lay th- f ,u 1 npM,, ,ts baek r.n a (dean obi wait, r or trav, 
(such as should l.i- kepi in (>verv kit(diefi,> and uith a lanje 
Sha-p knif' eat nfl", firM tb.' bead, and then the b --s at the i,r.i 
jf-'ii^'- The nrxt tbmg is to cut a ver) ion- siit m la. >koi ,.t 



the right side of the n(^ck, and w ith yonr fuu^ers strip down tlie 
skin towards the shoulders, till you come to the craw^ which 
you must take out with your hand. Tlun with your kmfe 
make two long deep cuts or incisions on each side of the body, 
going downward tow ards the tail. Put your hand into the cut 
or orihce on tlie right side, and pull out the heart, liver, gizzard, 
and tlu^n the entrails. Take care not to break the gall-hag, or 
its liquor will run over the liver, and make it so bitter that it 
cannot bt^ eat( n, and should tlierefore h(; thrown away without 
cooking. Next, to flatten the body, hr»>ak the breast-bone by 
striking on it hard with your liand. Then tuck the legs into 
the lower part of tlie slits that you have cut on each side ot the 
body. Afterwards with your hand bend or curve inw^ards the 
end of the neck-bone, and tuck it away under the long loose 
j>iece of skill left ther<?. After this, lay the fowl in a small tub 
of cold water, and wash it well inside and out. then dry it with 

a (dean towc 1. 

Ntxt, cut open tbe (rizzard, empty it of the sand and graved, 
and take out the ibiid^ mside skin. Split op'-n the heart, and 
k't out tlie blood that IS m it. Then carefully out tbe <iali-bag 
from tlie iiver, so as not to break it. Wasb cb an the heart, 
liver, and gizzard, (iiavin-j trimmed them neatly,) and ret\irn 
the heart to the Insid*^ of the i)reast; putting back also the errgs, 
if vrai have found any. Have ready the stuthnir, and hll up 
w ith it tbe vacancy from which you have taken the craw, &'c., 
pressing it in hard. N(>Kt, taking between your thund) and 
hnirer tbe above-mentioned piece of skin at the top of the neck, 
draw it down tiubtly towards tlio baek of tbe f.)wl, (f ddin*: ii 
nicely ov.r the bent end of the neck-bone,) and fisten it down 
b( tweeii tb.> shoulders with a skewer, wbieb must bo sturk m so 
•as in oo bn.rtbways d..wn the back. This ^^'^\ prev. nt any..f 
the stp.hiu^ from getting ..ut, and vs ill keep all compnct and nu-e. 



274 



Tin: IIOI SK IJOOK. 



THE BR E A K i A H T T A B L E 



9 



75 



P-vi 



Th 



en run a skewer throiiL'-h both the wirifrs and t! 



part of the body, tuckinir in the liver so as to 
the rinht pinion, and tii 



le upper 
appt^ar from under 



Botl 
tvi 



c jrizzard (scorinrr it iirst) on tiie Icfi, 



1 jdnions must be bent upwards. Lastly 



secure 



all |j 



y 



one 



yin^r two strjn^rs ,>f small twine ti^r|u|y round the fowl: 
just above the skewer that confines the le^rs ; the otht;r just 
below that which i)asses through the win<rs. 

()1 course, the stiin<rs and skewers are n^moved bt-fure the 
poultry is scut to table. 

Turkeys, ir( (>s(% and ducks are aJwavs trussed in 1? 
the Icn-s bcinirruioir at the first joint. So arc fowls f)r boil 
But when fowls are to !)<• roaste<i, some cooks leav 
whole of the 1 



us manner. 



Ul!) 



e on thf3 



cirs and 1 



cet, (scraj)iniT and washinir tliem clran,) 



and drawinir th(> feet u{) quite to the breast, where tl 
to(r,th(T by a string. 



)oy are tied 



V 



iireons, i)heasants, partridin-s, &c., ar.,> all trussed as al 



love, 



Avilh the 1 



riX:^ sliorl, 



dit. 



o draw a little roasiinir pi^r, cut the body oj)en bv one lomr 
and before you takf' out what is itisi(h', h.o^m it ;i]! with 



a slinrp knifo; th.p, c\tr;h't it wii 



II V'li.ir nan 



1... J'. 



hrad ah 



inpty ti 



A fie 



rwards wash the animal clean, (inside and out,) 



and fill the vacancy with stall 



inu;. llavinn- heiit the kn 



CCS 



under, skewer the leers to \\w body, and 
tyiiicr twine tiirhtlv s( vera! ti 



secure the; stu!iin<r by 



Uies round the 



0( 



V ; fust fastcn- 



Ui;r the slit by pinnin'_r 't with a wooden si 
bnile<l the !i 



vcwer. 



II 



iviiu*- 



ver and lu/art, cie.p them to enrifdi the i^^ravy 



'I'llK BRIvAKFAST TAHLi:.— I 



I' i)reparirin- the breaklast 



table in winter, first see that ihe ji 
<■''■'*"• ii' ill summer, that the buHer and 



re is u-.xmI and tii" hearth 



cre;un are cooiiu!!- lii 



the 1 



ce 



I 



yi'U have no ice, tht y 



may he rr-c 



■led ! 



)V ^landii 



\'r 



111 a vessel of cold pump-water. 1 



n u arm weather, some fami- 



lies have frcNh fruit on th(> hreakf;.st table, such as currants, 



straw l)erri(>s, rasj 



should be <jathere( 



J), rries, &c. If produced in the garden, they 
i earlv, divestetl of the stems, put into deep 



dishes, sprinkled with powdered white RU 



o-ar, and set on ice 



or m some co 



Id pi 



:\ce 



I lav in LC 



removed the coloured table cover, (it there is out 







am 



1 wiped the table with a duster, spread on the white cloth 



as evenly as possible, ohservinjr that the cen 



tre creasf^ of its 



folds 



s IS e\ac 



tlv in the centre of the table, Tlien ])lace the lar 



(»"0 



J«M 



)anne( 



1 waiter at the liead (»f the labic, and put on it a cup. 



saucer, aiu 



1 tea-spool! for each person, ;md a small pile ol three 

thev should chance to he wantt-<l. 



c^r f )ur extra ones, in case 



Put 



he tea-spo(;ns a 



the cups and sauc(^r^. 



t llic riiiht-liand sid(> of the cup. 15ack ot 

di on the ri«;xht-hand, and 



set the su""ar-!li 



the cr(\\m-]>ot on tlio ]eft,^^i!h the slop-itowl in tlie centre; 
Icavimr a place beliind tor the cofl'ee-pot or tea-pot. If there is 
an urn. its j)lace is beyond the waiter; and tliere should be a 



and tf,r i 



t, (dtlier ot' V. 



( t 



rste 



\\ orK 



or ot oil-M 



loth 



t!ie 



snoi; 



1 11 ( ■ o n \' e ! i 1 ( f 1 1 ! \' 



,W 



IS sometimes 



he cnsc 



,^ ti 



urn mav he ( h'V.ited hv a 



il made of a thiek bh.ck ol w 



( !( Ml 



met 



■ly finished, and j>ainled and varniKhed in imitation 



o!" ma- 



lioirany or bhudc walnut, 



Tl 



le snoi 



it of th(^ lea-nrn siiouhi h( 



imm((li itely over the tea-pf)t. If there is a crdtcc-urn, the cups 



th 



)f 



ol cfiurse, are 



lilh'd din ctlv iVom it. 



11 prenar 



pn p 



inc- the urn. s.n- that the heater is put into the fire 



111 time 



to 1 



)( come re( 



-hot. When von put it intr) the cylinder, 
t;ik(^ care not to dri>p it down too hard and heavy, or you may 



break the bottom of the urn. 



There should he a lonn; iron ro{ 



1 



with a hook ai the «^nd, for the purpose of lilunn; the In'ater. 
The v.at(>ror the c((lVee must always be hoilinfr hot at tln^ time 
you pour It into the urn, and it must always he tilled to a h vel 



w) 



th the heater, vvhicdi othervv'ise may burn the top and side 



276 



T II E nous H I? O O K. 



THE li R F, V K F A S T T A B L K. 



277 



l:^ 



An urn should be washed out every day, and wlj)e,d .iry inside; 
as, if Ml damp, it will be apt to get musty. An urn tlrat ia 
. put by for any lenj/th of time should, while out of use, be k(^pt 
iilled with clean waste pajx-r : not n(nvspa})ers, howevrr, (.r 
any sort that is printed, it is well to have a grvon baize eov( r 
tor your urns, as it will preserve them from dust and dain|,, and 
from injury by the liies. 

hi some families, a bri^rht tea-kettle on a cliafinn-a,H},, to 
stand on the hearth, is used instead of a water-urn. ]„ this 
case, see that the ehahn<r.dish is well filled with clear ^lowint^ 
coals, free fronj ashes ; and that the water is boilinir hard a"t 
the time the ketth- is filled. It should be broujrht iiwd.ont ten 
nunutes before the breakthst hour, that the tea madr with it 
may have time to dr.w. Scakl the pot twcce before the tea is 
put in. 

After you have set the cups, place round the tabh- thr' plates, 
kinves, and forks, h>avin,<r a frw extra ones on the sideboard. 
ir they are used in tln^ family, do not forcret to set n.und tbe 
liUi(' cup-platrs. J,ay also a na])kin Ibr each perso,,. I'hu-,. 
the castor ,n the centre of thr table, and th,^ vggs just brhmd 
It. Jl a tin or silvt-r eoir-boiler is used on the cable, it sJH^uld 
he Jiiled in the kitchen with water that is boilin^r. 'J^Ih-,, put 
in the e^Tfrs, which oujrht first to be wij.ed clean; for, ihuugh 
the outsid(« is nr,t eat. n, if dirty they look disacrreeabi v. h, 
three or four minutes pour olf the first water, (which will have 
become chilled by the coldness of the ecr^rs,) and fill up th.^ tm 
with some more that is boilin^r liard. Th.n shut up thr rova rs, 
and the eaos will finish their i»oilin^r nn thr tablo. 

When e^rtr-enps are us((l, tluy ar* -enerally of china, or elso 
of silver. (Tilt inside. The en-<r ,s set into tbe cup, and, bavm.r 
broken the Urgv end by striknej^ it with a spoon, n is rato,, out 
of the Bhell. Another way ,s to havo rns,-^|asse., and to , mpty 



into tlic trlass tln^ conttMits of the e<r(r. Spoons for the cm-its 
should be laid beside all tiie jdatos. Have two salt-cellars; 
and, as there should be a plate of butter on each side of the 
table, put tv/(^ bulLer-knives. Ihitter for breakfast looks vt^ry 
nicely if made iiito round pats and printed with a small butter 
})rint. On the top, if tbe weather is warm, should be laid a 
pit;ce of clear brijrht ice. There are small, covt^red, deep dishes 
of china or glass, purposidy for holdinjr the butter when brouj^bt 
to table. There are similar covered disiu s for cheese. For 
whatever meat <.'r tish may be at breakfast, lay a kid{'»% fork, 
and spoon to \\>A[) it with; and jdacii mats ftr the hot dishos, 
which should be brouflit in with covers. Do not cut th* bread 
too thill, ;ind seo that ;i sulTiciency ot" it is put on at oni*r. If 
tin-re are hot cak(>s, let them be broutrht to tbe door, and tlit:rt; 
deliv(!red to the waiter; tor it will be very inconvenient to have 
liim continually <Toin'r in and out for them. Of batter cakes, 
it is well to b(\irin with tour on each plate; otherwise t!ie inter- 
vals b( Iwet n the arrival of tlu; tVesh supplies will be (juitr t'>ri 
lonjr tor j)trsons with <jrood appetites, or who may h.ive but 
little tiiiie t'. remain at I.ible. 

Tile (ii»!nesth' tiiat attends at breakfast should (.1-; ;it (iinnt-r) 
!i:ive a naplvin and a small waiter, \\ ilh which to band every 
lhini.!C. It is the custom in many houses (and a very o;ood out) 
to send rnnnd the su<jrar and cream, that each j»erson may nsi; 
tlnin acenrdinc to bis ou n taste. The custeim ol" niittnu'' hn.n'n. 
sujrar in collee' is now exploded in almost all families thai liv»; 
pent(Hdly. ' 

The colfee she)uld on no consideration be th!(d\ a.ntl nunid v. 
Tt is not \\v\\ to roast more than a posnid at a time, as it loses 
it> streie'th by k^'eniier, l*reviM\is to rna^iinir, it .--li;)uld lui 
u;i->!ie(l ihrounh l Jiree watt rs, ara! liien dried hrtere the lire. 

Then put it into the coifec-riraster ; (.in ir.'n evimder, standing 

24 



278 



T H K H I' S E n K, 



horizontally on O-oi hvihw tlic fire, and turned round occasion- 
ally hy a handle.) If you have not one of these convenient 
articles, you must suhstitute an iron ])ot or skillet; or you niav 
do the coll'ee in a tin pan, set in the oven of a h.ot stove. 
Whatever it may he roasted in, it must be stirred frequently, 
and done of a fine dark brown, not black; putting amono- it, 
while roastincr, a lalde-spoonfui of butter. By the tinu" it is 
taken from the fire, have ready for one cjuart of coffee tiie white 
(.f two i^<nj;^, l)eat(>n to a frotli, and (rradually mix it with the 
cuilee, after ir has been poured out into an earthen ]ian, ;uui 
wliih- it is coolinn-. It must not be iiot enouo-h to turn tin- ecr.r 
^v}i((< . Tliis will niv(^ the coflee suflicient clearness when 
LTound and made; and precludes the necessitv of puttinu- in 
isuiLrliiss or wh.ite of eo-nr ovfTy morninLr. If it is ne(•es^a^y to 
roast a larger quantity at onc(^y(,u will find the whites of M/v.c 
TfTfrs sulhcient f)r four quarts of cotTee. 

If there are both llsh and meat on the breakfist table, see to 
liave at hand a sufhrient supply of clean plates, knives, and 
forks, in case ;!r!y ,,f the company should elioose to eat of [)..lh. 
At hn .iktast, as at dinu'T, (jiinns should |„^ so arraign d ihat 
the waiter will have no eccasion to leave the room. If tin re 
is coi.l ham, let It h,^ sHced extremely thm. Ham for broilino- 
nr fryiuir sliouhl, early in the mornincr, or the nijrbt bef -re, have 
tiir- saltness taken out hy scaldino- the sliec^s several times in 

boilinrr water, letlmo- it soak in each till tln^ water cools. 

Half an hour hef)re breakfast, the waiter should riiio b,s 
hand hell, to <rive notice that the tini(> is approachimr ; and 
when every thinj^r is on the tahh>, and the lady of the |,nuse 
ready to take her seat, he should rinir it ;main. His station at 
l)reakfast is behind her chair, a little to the ricxht. He is first 
to hand round iho eups of tea or coffee, onf at a time, on his 
waiter. Next, beirinninir with the ladies, he is to carry their 



THE T E A " T A W I, K 



279 



I)lates for whatever they may wish to have, and to hand round 
tlie bread, warm cak(^s, &c., keepin^r a look-out durintr the 
whole re}>ast, to see what may be wanted. A frood waiter will 
pride himself on p^ettintr throutrh his business ))roi)erly and 
expeditiously, without beiujir continually reminded of it. As 
soon as the lamily have (juitted the table, (and not till then,) 
he must bejrin to fold u]) the napkins and put them away, and 
set back the ciiairs. remove every thinfr that has been used, 
shake out and fold up the cloth, and restore the room to order. 
In ill-managed houses, or where there are bad servants, we 
have seen a breakfast table left standing with the cloth, <SiC., 
upon it till near dinner-time. 



THE 'rEA-TAlJLE.—The manner of pre})arinrr a tea-tahlo 
differs but little from that of breakfast. The kettle should he 
put on at least half an hour before, with a sufficiently irood 
fire under it; but it is not necessary, as is th<^ practice with 
many inconsiderate servants, to nsake u]n in a summer after- 
n(»en, as larjj^e a fire to boil tlie tea-kettle as would 1)0 neces- 
sary tor cookinjT a dinner. Unless it is put on early enou<4h, 
the tea nray be retarchMJ by havin^r to wait for it to boil. Some 
servants think that if the kettle has imcf boiled, that is suffi- 
cient; and tliey will take it down, or allow i\w hre to dimmish 
under it, so that, at the time the water is wantid to pour on 
the tea, instead of heincr boiling; hot, it is only luke-warm ; in 
which case, if even half a pound of tea was put into the pot, 
it would be weak. Hat, anrl tasteless. 

In many families, a white lable-cloth is not used at tea. If 
thr c.dour<Ml eloth is of cotton, and dark, it may do very well, 
as it ean easily be washed. Hut a woollen cloth on a tea-tahle 
is net agrec.'able, either to the si<,rht, toueh, or smell ; the grease, 



¥ ■- 



280 



THK IIOI'SK IU)OK 



HINTS ON E V E N I N PARTIES. 



281 



N* 



&c., in a short time renders them unpleasant, and they are 
rarely washed as soon as is necessary. 

Unless there are oysters, or cucumbers, the castors and salt 
need not he set on the t.a-table. Jf there are sweetmeats, it is 
well to have an extra cream jujr, or to have cream in a g-lass or 
silver howl, to be dipped out with a small ladle. For fresh 
truit, strawberries, raspberries, &c., a bowl of powdered loaf- 
Hutrar will also he wanted. The basket or plates of sweet 
cake should be carried round the table, on his hand-waiter, by 
the (lomf'stic who is attendinnr, and this should be done not 
rn( rely at the close of the repast, but soon after its commence- 
ment. The various sorts of very small cakes, scarcely a 
mouthful in size, and called by the confectioners mixed cakes, 
are no longer introduced at tea. 



IliXTS ON EVKMNCJ PARTIES.— In sendin^r notes of 
invit.ition, let ihe hour always be specified, and the day of the 
montli, as well as that of the week. If you intend to have tea, 
l(^t the word be mentioned in the note; otherwise, invite f>r 
rvrfii'mr oiil y, 

liespeak your confectionary, kc, at tho, very best shops ; other 

wise the thintrs may be sent to you made of bad intrredients. 

Unless your own servants are sufficient m number, and very 

c-.'.pable, hire for the eveninir one or more of the men who 

make a business of waitinn; at j^arties, and wiio understand 

how they are conducted at the best houses. If you depend on 

your own people, you must see that the fires are in ^ood order, 

and the lanij^s nil linhtcd at an early liour, and that a]l ihe re- 

freshmetits are actually in the house, so that there may be no 

disappr)intniciit, and no occasioo to send out t'or any thiuH-, 

\\ hen tea is to be carried round to more tlian lour or five 
persons, there slioiild be two men as waiters, one to hand the 



tea, and tlie other the cakes. If the party is larg-e, the waiters, 
of course, should be more in number. 

We earnestly recommend, that before the company bej^ins to 
arrive, there shall be provided in some convenient place, in (mo 
of the drawinir-rooms, a server with a pitcher of cool water, 
and some tumblers, for the benefit of those ladies that are in 
the practice of interrupting and retardin<r the proo^ress of the 
lea, and sending- away the man that is handing^ it, to brinjgr th< ui 
a ^lass of water; notwithstanding that they min;ht easily have 
allayed their thirst while in the dressino--room. ^ 

On on(; of the large tea-trays or waiters, set round the cups 
of frreen tea, black tea, and cotlee ; those of fjreen tea distin- 
guished by having a spoon in each cup, the others having 
spoons in the saucers. In the centre, ph.ice the sugar-dih, 
cream-jug, and a small tea-pot of hot water, for those who uidi 
to weaken their tea, or to drink only milk and water. The 
liandles of all should be turned tow^ards the company. The 
business of carrying round the tea will be much accelerated, if 
there is ?. tiiird wniter. (a Ix^y, for instance,) in take rfwind i>i) a 
small server, the snc'-ar, cream, and water-pnts, as tlien the 
first waiter will only have to stop a moment before each jiersrai, 
merely while a cup is taken from his tray. It is not necessary, 
when tea is handed round to a large company, to have })read 
and butter, muffins, toast, sliced ham, tongue, or any thing of 
that sort on the cake waiter. F(>w persons, (particularly 
ladies,) on these occasions, have any desire to partake of tliem, 
having, perhaps, already taken a f imily tea at home : and 
they are Vf'ry greasy to the fingers, injurious to the gloves, :ind 
lu'.iy also, by some accident, grease the dresses. It is better 
on the cake waiter to have cake only; for instance, a large 
handsome one in the centre, placed on a silver waiter, and 
sliced standing; a basket of smaller cakes, and one of sponge 



282 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



HINTS ON KVENTNG PARTIES. 



283 



II 



H 



cake, for porsons who am unwilling to eat of any that has butter 
irs it. There shouM he a silver fork on the tray, for takin^r out 
a slice of the larrro cake, and a knife with which to cut more, 
if necessary. On this tray sliould be small plates in piles, yet 
on the side next the company. 

The chief wait<T must take an o])portunity of askintr the lady 
of the house if there is any one to whom she particularly wishes 
the U-d to be handed first. This compliment is always paid to 
a bride, to the frreat<>st strann-fr, or to a lady for whom the party 
has been made. Otlierwise the waitt-r undf>rstands that he is 
to 1X0 first U) the lady vvlu) apjx-ars to b(^ the eldest in the room. 
When all the ladies hav<' bc(^n supplied, the t(^a, kc, is then 
handed to the ^rentlenuii, takintr car<.' to miss no one. Wlien 
tlie tea-tray is (>mpty, the waiter is to carry it to the reom where 
it is j)oured out, aud brinir it hack with a fresh supply. Sonie- 
tme^s, when the eomjtany is not very hiri^e, th(< tea is poured 
out in their presence by (;ne <,f the ladies of tlu; family, seated 
at a t;d)h' in the hack dr;!\v inn-room. 

The leiy .-! third Wiulf r h;iviii^ iai,. n fivun }i!> ^ervcr the 
rif am, siinar, \c., ,sh(-uid ea.rry il r<i!!nd fur the empi v cui's. 

'i'he liiHii that has the eake v.ailer sh^iuld cruitiuue to o-o 
round N^itli it. |)articularly in tin; interval between the first cups 
and the second, and should hiok out to s< e if every person is 
heljXMi. After the cups have frraie rtamd a second time, (Ik ein- 
nin«_r aL'-ain witii the lady to whr,ni the tea was hand<-d first.) it 
vmN not he necessary t(! hrimr in fjuite as manv the tliird {iin«>, 
as few persens take iru're tlum two. !t is custr)mary to ronchide 
bv briiifrin^r in i),, eake-Iray ab.n<' and <.r('injx r<M!nd wilh it at 
the hist. 

Ale.uf an hour aff* r l.a, i; is usual T. smd round h imjiad*? 
in L'lasses with ha.n.nes, a baskot .,f litth- eak. s (inaeearnui,.., 
A^c.) bt ing in tiie rentre ^f tlie tray. If tlieiL- is to be a supp- r. 



nothintr more is handed round. If not, there is frenerally ice- 
cream, jelly, blanc-manfre, &c., accompanied by wafer-cakea, 
savoy-biscuit, or almond sponfre-cake,and followed immediately 
by a tray with wine and liqueurs. Champairne is always 
carried round in a black bottle, wilh the cork in except at the 
moment when the waiter is hlling the glasses, which he must 
do as quickly as possible. 

\Vh(m the wine, &c., is handed to the ladies, it is well to 
liave on the same tray a glass pitcher with cool water, and a 
few tumbh^rs. 

At ladles' {larties, when there is what is called a standing 
supper, and no dancinjr, it is customary to have tlie table set in 
the hack drawini'--ro(jm, about ion o'(dock. The waiters wlio 
are hired for these occasions pertorm this business with gn-at 
(expedition ami dexterity, and arrange tlU' arti",d(>s on the tabb^- 
so as to produce a very eleir^uit eileet. When all is ready, tlu^ 
chief waiter signifies it to the lady of t!ie hous(>, and the com- 
pa\"iy then assend)le ruund th"- lable. 

Some (Mufulentiai pers- n showhi be enqiloyed on thes(> ( ven- 
in|.rs to superintenii hcliind the .sctiu s^ and see ihat proper care 
IS ta.ken of all tlie tilings that are left. 'I'he s(>rvants should bo 
f >rbidden to invite their friends to the kitchen, as they art^ very 
apt ti* do on. these occasions. Having company of their own 
withdraws their attention f>om th< ir business, ;md gives o[)por- 
tunity f)r much idle gossip; besides winch, their visiters 
gen«>rally carry olV nearly all the delicaci(>s that romain of the 
supp(>r, and frequently make toe fr(^e with the win*'. 

In the principal cities it is usiiul tf> decorate flio supper table 
of a ladles' j.'arty with vases nf tlcwer-^ ; or with t(Mnj)les, bas- 
fel'-, vVc., (it' (/rnamental sutrar-^^ "rk. These can be hired, lor 
(he e\(iiir!'j, (d" a cenfrctioner. (ihis'^ and cliina can aKo h?; 
lured t'l rn a rhiuii-'-tore. Th le are baskets of motto, s or 



'I 



284 



thp: house book, 



secrets, ice-creams, j(>llies, blanc-rnange, eweetineats, fVesh 
ioreA^rn fruit, cakes, charlottes, and other thiiigs, accordirur as 
the rasliion may be. Also oysters, pickled or stewed, terrrpm, 
and chicken salad, with haskt-ts of small li^riu bread-rolls to 
eat With them. Much unnecessary expense is frequently in- 
curnxi on these occasions. 

The gentlemen conduct the ladies to the supper-room, and 
li'lp them as they stand round the table. The waiters shouhl 
also be alert in seeincr that every one is properly attended. 

Tea is only dispensed with at very larcro parties, where 
handinrr it round in the crowd would be inconvenient. On 
these occasions it is sometimes customary to have a table in 
each of the dressing-rooms, with tea, coflce, and a basket of 
cake, with a servant to pour out for any one who may choose a 
cup before they go down. Have no wine in the gentlemen's room. 
Few persons, however, go to a party without first taking 
their tea at home at the usual hour. 

On the evening of a party, the fires sliould be in proper ord(>r, 
•^'^1 tiic lamps lerhtr.: at an early hour, both m the drawing- 
roeuis. onthe stair-ease, and iu the <lressmg.ro<,ms ; am! tim 
bnln s of theiamilydrest and down stairs long bef>re it is tinic 
fur any of the company to arrive, m case some of tiie guests 
may chance to be in advance of the hour. Let one of the 
waiters take his station in tin- entry, just within the stree.t-door, 
to be ready to open it immediat 'y, as somi as the bell rings,' 
. and t(, inform the com])any, as th(>y come, where they are "to 
find the dressing-rooms. In cold w.-ather, therf^ should be a 
good lire in the stove t,hat warms the hall and stair-case. It is 
well to hav(; another wait»T stationed up stairs, near tlu^ gentle- 
MKri's room; and a female domestic sln.uld stay just within 
the oprn ,loor of the" ladies' room till tin- company l,as all 
nrrivTd. Both <lressing-rooinB should be w.ll lighted, having 



II 1 N I S X i: \' E N T N G PARTI V ? . 



285 



a good fire in each, and a sufficiency of mirrors, combs, and 
hair-brushes; and in the ladies' room large ])incushions filled 
with pins on the toilet tal)les ; on one of wliich it is well to 
have a work-box with thimble, scissors, needles, thread, sewing 
silk, <5tc., in case any one should wish by a few^ stitches to 
repair an accident that may have happened to her dress, or to 
sew on a string that may have broken loose from her slij)p(^r. 
Also a bottle of cologne watiT, and one of camphor, in case of 
a lady Ixing suddenly taken ill. Two or three young women 
should attend all the evening in this apartment, (which is 
'renerallv th(^ chamb(T or dressin^^-room of the mistress of the 
house,) for the purpose of assisting tlu^ ladies in taking off their 
cloaks, changing their shoes, fastening th( ir glov<'S, or in any 
oth(>r way that may l)e HN-^uired. The cloak, hoful, &c., of 
each lady should be wrapped up tog- ther and put into a sepa- 
rate place. if there are not two toilet tables and mirrors 
heloie^^innr to tlie room, let a secrind be placed tlxTC for that 
<'vrning; as one will not be sulTieicMit to accommodate all the 
iadit s ; ;ind g( ntlemen are g( iicrally rather iinpatirnt (if Ix ing 
lf>ng d< tallied in the passage by waiting for them. It is cus- 
toinary, till all her female guests have arrived, for the lady of 
the leaise to remain at the u[)per end of the front drawing-room, 
that tlu^ company, as they enter, may know exactly where to 
find h(T when going up to ])ay their conij)liments. 

Care should b(^ taken that the hre and lights are kept uj) all 
iIm^ evening in the dressing-roonis, and that the attendants are 
at tiu'ir j)osts, in cas(> some of the company should come very 
late, and others should go away very early. 

When th(^ ])arty is over, a-;, in all probalulit y, (^very i)erson 
in the hiaisewill bo vt ry miieli t";\tigued, and n'lad to get to bed, 
it IS better to dt fer clearin<r away and washing up the things 
till iif xt day. Let the- lamps and fires be extinguished, tho 



28(» 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



SUPPER PARTIES. 



287 



tk 



I 



drawing-rooms and ]>antrybe locked up, and all left as it is till 
mornincr. \Ae have heard of over-o-ood liouse-wives, {mom 
nice than wise,) w!io boastful of havin^r, after a party, stayed 
up al! nio-ht, and made their servants do the sanu>, for the pur- 
pose of having every thing washed and put regularly away, 
and the rooms restored to their usual order; a mode of pro- 
cedure wliich few^ circumstarKH^s could warrant, and which 
certainly (winced very little consideration for themselves, and 
none at all for their domestics. 

At sunnner evening parties it is the custom (whetluT the 
refreshments are handrd round or placed on a table) to have, 
alter U^i, cakes, confectionary, ice-crr^am, and fresh fruits, 
whi<;h, if they are berries, should have with them a bowl of 
powdered loaf-sugar and a pitclier of cream. The b(-vera<r(. 
lemonade and orgeat; and after the ice-cream, wine e>r li- 
queurs. 

From '' the signs of the times,'' tliere is great reason to hope 
that tlie p(^nod is fast .ipproacliing when Uir^w, ciowdcd, an<l 
extravagantly luxurious parties will hvvouir (,!,M,btr; at b.-.i^t 
in thos.; chisscs ui AnuTUum society that are or uiight to be 
the most distinguished for good taste and refniement. Surdy ^ 
tlic most rational, agreea[)le, and in ev( ry respoct the uK^st 
eligible manner of keeping up social int( rcours<-, is to sw y..ur 
fri<-n(ls fr.Mpn.ntly, but in small numbers; inst.ad oi nun^ or 
twice m the season giving what is eiilled a scjuco/e, askmo- . 
every one you may hapjxn to know, (and consinpuntly many 
whom you do not c^rc for,) and incurring a gnat and souietimos 
very inconvenient expense, and a v.ist dcd of fitiMu, , i",,r a 
jMirposo that, after all, alfords no real pleasurr, either to the 
laniily or tlu ir guests. 

We are glad to find that, m the most re,i]]y nent,.,.] rird'-s, 
it is now becoming v( ry cusioiuary to ha\c only small parties; 



inviting but twenty or thirty persons at a time, till, in the 
course of the season, you get round all your friends: and select- 
ing, on each occasion, those that are likely to be most agreeable 
and best suited to each other. And, as at these assemblages, 
nothing is provided that is entirely for show, and the style of 
dress is comparatively simple, the expense and trouble of 
receiving company, or of going into it, is greatly and properly 
diminished; and the enjoyment proportionably increased. 

Where there is a small company, rujt exceeding ten or a dozen 
persons, it is usual, an hour or two after tea, to have refresh- 
nuuts brought in Ity a domestic, and placed on one of the tables 
in the room, with a sufficiency of glasses, plates, forks, (^'c, 
allowing a few extra ones. After which, the servant retires, 
as soon as the mistress of the house has seen that all is ri-rht; 
and the gentlemen go to the table, and help th«' ladies as they 
sit, to whatever they may wish. The refreshments remaining 
on the table, as long as the company stay, and offered again, 
previous to their departure. 



SUPPFJi PAirri[vS,—Kxc«^pt at an oyster supper, It is not 
very customary lor ladies to appear at these entertainments. 
For a gentl(Mnen*s supper party, it is usual to have terrapin, 
canvas-back ducks, or game; and sometimes French dishes. 
On some occasions, all the articles for a gentlem«Mi's supper 
party are cold. "^J'he table is set out nearly the samc^ as ior 
dinner, first seeinfr that the room is well lin-hted and well 
warmed. If the supper consists entirely of cold things, the 
plates must be cold also; and it is not usual at suppers, to 
have eitlier wine-cool<TS or hnd^or-^-lasses ; or to hand romui 
Cnlfee at the close. There is sometimes chocolate and rusk. 

Pastry is rarely seen on a sup[>er-table. The dessert is ^)f 
ice-cream, oranges, gra])es, &c. 



SUPPER PARTIES. 



289 



I? 



288 



THE 11 DUSK nOOK 



9V} 






I 



At an oyster supper, it is usual to have all tiie various pre- 
parations of oystfjrs, fried, stewed, broiled, roasted, raw, and 
in patties. Potatoes mashed, and browned, are <r(>iieraily 
added. The roasted oysters are served in the shell, on very 
large dishes, and brought in '' hot and hot," all the time ; as 
they are nencrally eaten much faster than they can be cooke.i. 
Small baskets (usually of maple or stained wo(k1, with brass 
hoops) are placed on the Hoor, for the purpose of receiving the 
shells, beside the chairs of the gentlemen; as the business of 
opening the oysters mostly devolves on them. At tln^ right 
hand (){' each ])lato, is })l;u'e(i a thick lolded towel, and an 
oyster knife, which is used only to open the shell ; at the otiier 
sidi', the napkin, ft;rk, bread, tumbler, wine-glasses, <S.,c, On 
ihe side-table, let there be j)lenty of plates, knives and fork^, 
to change with ; a basket of bread or light rolls; pitchers of 
\vat«,*r; and bottles of porter and cider; decanters of wine 
being on the table. 

Several buttor-plates, with a butter knife to each, should be 
set alotig the tnbli'. S()m('tini(\s the buttrr is made up into tbo 
shape; of ;i piiiv-apj)!'', dr a basket oi" llowcrs. 



We subj(jin an exct lb rit receipt fjr 

(Vca/n-oi/sfcrs. — 'l^ike, for instance, five hundred of the 
birgost and finest oysters you can procure. Jdft them out of 
th.' li(iuor, one at a time, by sticking a fork into tho In art or 
hard part, and lay them in a deep pan. Tiien strain the licpior ; 
t.ike tin; half of it only, and boil it. VVlien it has come to a 
boil, have r(^ady three (jjiarters of a pound of the b. >,t fresh 
butter, divided into balls (;r lumps, and each slightly t^Wva] m 
a very litlie llour. AcUf tluMu to tin: !)oiling oyster-li(|i!or ; and 
\^ben they a.re all nielted', siir the uln-le very well, and put in 
the oysters. As soon as they have come to a boil, take out the 



oysters, and throw them immediately into a pan of very cold 
water; this will plump them, and give them firmness. Then 
take a quart and a pint of rich cream; add it very gradually 
to the liquor, (stirring all the time,) and give it another boil 
after the cream is in ; seasoning it with a powdered nutmeg, 
or more, according to your taste. When it has boiled again, 
return the oysters to it, and simmer them in the creamed liquor 
a few minutes; just long enough to heat them thoroughly. 
Then take them out, put them into a tureen, and serve them 
warm, with rolls of fresh bread. 



Here is a very fine receipt for 

Oyster Falties. — Have ready some shells of puff-paste, baked 
empty, in small patty-pans. You may bespeak them in the 
morning, of a good pastry-cook, on wdiom you can depend for 
using only the best butter. Take a sufficient quantity of 
oysters, drain them, remove the hard part, and chop the rest 
into very small pieces. Mix them with some rich cream, and 
season them to your taste, wnth powdered mace and nutmeg. 
The mixture must be very thick. Put it into a saucepan over 
a moderate heat, and when it has come to a boil, take it ofl the 
fire, and put a portion into the hollow of each of the baked 
shells. You may serve them up either w^arm or cold. 

If you wish to have the patties with iids, bake, inside of 
each, a bit of bread-crust, to support the top. When they are 
baked, remove the lid nicely, by slipping a knife under it, fill 
the patties with the oyster mixture, (previously cooked,) and 
then restore the covers. 

Oyster pies, the size of a soup-plate, may be made in th.s 
manner, with chopped oysters and cream, either with or with- 
out covers. . 

25 



290 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



MENDING BROKEN DISHES. 



291 



I* 



It 



'II 



CHINA WARE. — For common, evcry-day use, china ware 
of entire white seems now to have superseded all others, and 
very justly; as, when of good (juality, it is pure and delicate 
in its appearance, never looks the worse for wear, (as is the 
case with much of the gilt china,) and when broken is easily 
matched. If possible, avoid buying cups with handles ; as the 
handles are rarely used, and soon knocked off, and the cup then 
looks shabby and defaced. Many of the saucers now made 
are but very slightly concave, and turn outwards towards the 
edge, which makes them useless to persons who do not lik«' to 
take their tea out of the cup. As there are many who prefer 
drinking out of the saucer, it is well to buy them of a conve- 
nient shape, and also to have a set of little cup-plates or 
cup-mats. 

r India china (except the large jars) is now much less in 
favour than formerly; as the French is generally preferred to 
it, the gilding being more lasting, the colours finer, and the 
patterns more elegant. The Worcester china is also very 
beautiful in quality, gilding, and painting. It is not unusual 
to make up at the china storfvs what are called Ilarkqum tea- 
sets, every cup and saucer being different, and to be purchased 
separately. Odd cups and saucers are imported for this pur- 
pose, of all shapes, patterns, and colours. A Harlequin srt, 
however, should consist of none but the most elegant articles. 
If of low-priced cups and saucers that have no beauty to recom- 
mend them, the whole will have a mean and paltry effect, 
looking like the leavings of broken sets. 

China of a white ground, sprigged with flowers of different 
colours, has too much the look of calioo. The most elegant 
that we have seen has but one colour besides the gilding. A 
delicate light blue or pink, with a rich gold border, is very 
beautiful, 80 is dove-colour and gold ; or purple and gold. 



TO MEND BROKEN DISHES.— If you have any dishes 
or plates that have been merely broken in two, but not shattered, 
procure from a house-painter a small quantity of common white 
paint. Take the two halves of the dish, (first seeing that they 
are perfectly dry, and frt^e from grease;) place them, bottom 
upwards, on a shelf or common table, or on a floor, and smear 
the broken edges with the paint, laying it on neatly with a 
small brush. Then join these edges together, fitting them 
closely. Cut some strong new linen-tape the exact length of 
the fracture. Cover one side of the tape also with white paint, 
and lay it over the crack where you have joined the two broken 
pieces together. Press down the tape closely on the crack, so 
as to make it lie smooth and even. Then let the dish remain 
untouched for three or four weeks, by which time the fracture 
will be firmly cemented, and the dish will never break again 
in that place. 

Perform the process in the place where tlie article is to 
remain unmoved till quite dry ; and do it on a shelf, table, or 
floor that is perfectly level. It should be done in a room that 
is not in constant use, where it can be shut up so that nothing 
will disturb It while drying, and where no dust can lodge 

on it. 

A bowl or other vessel, cracked but half across, may bo 
mended by plastering the crack on both sides with only the 
white paint, omitting the tape. 

Many servants are in the habit, when a dish comes from the 
table, of setting it on hot coals, to keep the meat warm for their 
own dinner, at the risk of splitting the dish in two. Let this 
practice be forbidden; and direct them to remove the meat into 
a tin or iron pan when they wish to warm it. Whenever plates 
or dishes are broken in half, care should be taken to save the 
j)ieces, that they may be mended in the above manner : we 



292 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



CEMENTING ALABASTER, ETC. 



293 



know it to be a mode of cementing them that can certainly be 
depended on. 



m 

i 



TO MEND BROKEN GLASSES— Get some cloves of 
English garlic ; (you may obtain them in market, at a seed- 
store, or at a druggist's;) tie them up in a rag, lay them in a 
tin pan, and pound them with a hammer to get out the juice. 
Next take the broken glass, (for instance, a tumbler, bowl, or 
dish that has been broken in half,) and wet or smear each of 
the broken edges with the garlic juice. Then stick them firmly 
together, stand the article on a plate, and set it away to remain 
undisturbed for a fortnight. 

I The broken lid of a pitcher can also be mended in this 
manner. 

There is no way of mending a looking-glass, if broken. 



TO MEND A WINDOW PAN E.—If a window Mass is 
cracked across, you may mend it by plastering some putty on 
both Sides of the crack. This will not look well, of course, 
but it will make the broken pane air-tighl, and prevent it from 
falling apart, and may do very well till you can have a new 
glass put in by the glazier. 



TO SOFTEN OLD PUTTY—In removing old or broken 
panes from a window, it is generally very diffir^ult to get off 
the hard dry putty that sticks round the glass and its frame. 
Di[) a small brush in a little nitric or muriatic arid, (to be 
obtaioed at thf drufrnrist's,) And go over th.- putty with it. Let 
it rest a wliilo, and it will soon become so soft that you can 
remove it with ease. 



• CEMENT FOR ALABASTER, MARBLE, &c.— Take a 

pound of bees-wax, and half a pound of rosin, and melt them 
together. Have ready three-quarters of a pound of finely pow- 
dered alabaster, or powdered marble, (according to the article 
you wish to cement,) and add it gradually to the melted mix- 
ture, stirring the whole very well. Then knead tli^ whole mass 
in water, that the ingredients may be thoroughly incorporated. 
You may add more of the poAvder, to hxM^g. it nearer to the 
colour of the article to b& cemented.. 

Before applying this cement it must be h^at^sd, and so must 
the parts of the subject you are going to unite ; th^y must also 
be thoroughly dry, and quite free from grease. 

The powder may be obtained from an alabaster or marble shop. 

For cementing plaster of Paris, make the mixture with pul- 
verized plaster. 

COMMON CEMENT.— Mix together half a pint of vinegar 
and half a pint of milk. When they have formed a curd, take 
the whey only, and mix it with the whites of five eggs, beating 
the whoh^ very hard. Then sift in, gradually, sufficient quick- 
lime to convert the whole into a thick paste. This will be 
found useful for-broken. bowls, jugs, &c. Rub both the broken 
edges, and then cover the crack with it, allowing it a fortnight 

to dry. 

Another good cemf^nt maybe made. by mixing together equal 

quantities of meltedi glue, white of egg, and white lead, and 
boiling them. 



CEMENT FOR IRON KITCHEN T TENSH.S.-Take 

six parts of yellow pottt^r's clav, and one part of steel tilings; 
mix thcui toirrther with a suthciont quantity of lins«.>ed oil to 
make a thick paste of the consistence of glazier's putty. Then 

25 • 



294 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



¥! 



RYE PASTE, ETC. 



295 



apply it to the cracked parts, on both sides, and let it stand 
three or four weeks, undisturbed. 



II 

i 



1 

nfc; 






CEMENT CAKES.— Take four ounces of the best glue, 
and two ounces of ising-glass ; put them into a common glue- 
kettle, with as much mild ale as will cover them. Dissolve 
them, over a slow fire, to the consistence of strong glue. Then 
add gradually, an ounce and a half of well-boiled linseed oil, 
stirring the whole very hard. Spread it out to cool, and then 
cut it into cakes ; in consistence, it will resemble India rubber. 
When wanted for use, boil a piece of it in a proportionate 
quantity of ale, till quite dissolved, and apply it hot. Then 
let the article rest till next day. 

It will unite wood, earthen-ware, china, &c. 

By adding a little tow to the solution, it will afford an excel- 
lent cement for leaks in casks, &c. 



COMMON PASTE FOR PAPER.— Take two table- 
spoonfuls of wheat flour, and mix it gradually with half a pint 
of cold water, carefully pressing out all the lumps, and making 
it very smooth. If you wish it thinner, add more water; 
another half pint will make it quite thin. Pour it into a sauce- 
pan or skillet, set it on hot coals, stir it frequently, and after it 
has come to a boil, let it continue boiling about five minutes. 
Then take it off, and put it to cool. 

A little powdered alum, (for instance, a half tea-spoonful to 
the above quantity,) stirred in while over the fire, is an im- 
provement to paste, making it more tenacious. 

In pasting paper on wood, first wet the paper all over with a 
clean sponge dipped in cold water; spread the paste on the 
wood, and lay on the paper while damp; otherwise it will be 
in wrinkles, when dry. 



RYE PASTE.— -For very strong purposes, (wall paper, for 
instance,) the paste should be made of rye-flour, with the addi- 
tion of a little powdered rosin. 



COLD PASTE.— This can be obtained at any time, when 
it is not convenient to boil it, by keeping always in the house, 
a bottle of gum arabic water, made in the proportion of an 
ounce of pulverized gum-arabic to a jill of water. Mix a little 
flour with barely water enough to dissolve it, making it very 
smooth, and free from lumps ; then add a little of the solution 
of gum-arabic, diluting it with more water, if necessary. The 
gum will make this paste sufficiently adhesive for any common 
purpose, without boiling. 



COMMON GLUE.— Take a piece of glue, and melt it over 
coals in a small earthen glue-pot. When it has come to a boil, 
take it off, and apply it warm, by spreading it on with a small 
brush, or a flat stick. If it congeals before you are done with 
it, melt it again. While drying keep a string tied round the 
article glued. 

RICP] GLUE.— Mix together rice-flour and cold water, to a 
thick paste, pressing out all the lumps with a spoon, and 
making it very smooth. Then dilute it with a little more 
water, (altogether, you may allow a jill of water to a table- 
spoonful of rice-flour,) and boil it slowly, as long as you would 
boil starch ; stirring it frequently. When done, set it to cool. 
Use it for pasting fine paper, and for any little ornamental arti- 
cles made of paste-board. It is a very nice and durable cement. 

The water in which rice has been boiled for the table, will 
aflbrd a cement for slight purposes. 



?^ •■ r» 



296 



CHAMBER FURNITURE. 



297 



m 



BED-CHAMBERS. 



REMARKS. 

It is customary to have the two principal bed-rooms furnished 
cqualjy well ; the second being usually appropriated to visiters. 
Besides this, if the house is large, there rnay be other spare 
bed-rooms, fitted up in a plainer manner. It is not a good 
practice to keep articles belonging to the family, in the presses, 
closets, or bureaus of the spare bed-chambers. As most of 
these things have to be removed, (or, at least, ought to be,) 
when the room is (for more than a few days) occupied by a 
visiter, it is better to place them permanently elsewhere. A 
female guest, particularly, from requiring more space for her 
articles of dress, should have the entire use of all the receptacles 
in her apartment; also, no lady can feel secure of the privacy of 
her room, if she knows tliat she is liable to be fre(}uenlly dis- 
turbed at unseasonable times, by members of the family com- 
ing themselves, or sending servants to get things out of the 
closets, drawers, &c., of the spare chamber. 

f 

CFIAIRS, SOFAS, &c. — In every chamber there is great 
convenience in having a rocking-chair, a stuffed easy chair, or 
something of the sort, and one or two footstools. Also, low 
chairs, to sit on when sewing, or when washing your feet. 
Large, deep sofas, with square pillows, are now considered 
essential articles of furniture in bed-rooms. These sofas are 
generally covered with furniture chintz, or dimity, or damasked 



brown linen; and are very useful in case of illness, or to recline 
on for an afternoon nap. Many of them are made to contain a 
frame and a double mattrass, which can be drawn out at night, 
Ro as to furnish an extra bed, when necessary. Plain ones 
may be had in Philadelphia as low as forty dollars. They 
require great care in keeping clean, otherwise they may be 
infested with insects. 

A cheap substitute for a chamber-sofa is a long, broad settee 
of painted wood, furnished with a mattrass and square cushions, 
covered with chintz tied on with strings, and having a valance 
in front. 

The most convenient chairs for bed-rooms are of curled 
maple, with cane seats ; but if the other furniture is elegant, 
they will be considered too plain. In this case, handsome 
painted and gilt chairs will be more in accordance, the colour 
corresponding with that of the curtains. Mahogany chairs are 
generally considered too heavy and cumbrous for a chamber. 

Trunks and square wooden bonnet boxes may be made rather 
ornamental than otherwise to a chamber, by fitting theia up as 
seats. To do this, liavc for the top of racli trunk a l)rown 
linen cuslu(^n, stufTcHi with morss or hair, and made exactly to 
fit. For this cushion let there bp an outside covering of chintz 
or some other material, (as handsome as you please,) with a 
bindincr, and a frino-p or a frill all round, deep enough to conceal 
the place or crack where the lid opens. Then have a valance 
of the same, (either full or plain,) to nail, with small tacks, all 
round the sides and ends of the trunk, and descending to the 
floor. Fasten the cushion firmly to the top of the trunk, by 
tacks driven through the binding. Py drawing out the tacks 
with a rlaw-hanuncr, tlie cushion and valance can bo removed 
when it IS nec(^ssary to wash them, and when the trunk is 
wanted for travelling. Wa have seen an old champagne basket 



298 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



CHAMBER FURNITURE. 



299 



used in a bed-room as a receptacle for slioes ; and made quite 
ornamental by bein^ cushioned and valanced in. the above 
manner on the outside. 

There are chamber ottomans, with the wooden frame made 
hollow inside, like a long box, for the purpose of containing 
the bed linen, &c. They stand in the recesses, and have stuffed 
seats and cushions, covered generally with chintz. 



RECEPTACLES FOR DRESSES, &c.--Tn building or 
altering a house, it will be found an excellent plan to construct 
a range of laige closets (three in number) between the two 
principal chambers on each floor; the central closet having two 
doors, (one opening into the front room and one into the back,) 
and two tiers of deep shelves. In summer, by throwing open 
both these doors, you may have a fine draught of air through 
the rooms. On the inside of each door let hooks be fixed^ for 
hanging up dresses. Of the other two closets, one may belong 
to each room; or, if uniformity of doors is particularly desired, 
the middle closet (being the largest) may be appropriated to 
the ocriij)ants of one chamber, and the side closets to those of 
tln^ other. 

A ward-robe, or commode, is an almost indispensable article 
of furniture for a chamber, particularly if there is no large closet 
or press. In spacious rooms occupied by two persons, there 
are frequently two commodes. Those are perhaps most con- 
venient that have a tier of shelves on each side, and a space in 
the middle, furnished with two rows of large brass or iron 
hooks, on which to suspend dresses or coats ; the linen and 
smaller artich^s to be laid on the shelvt\s. 

Exclusive of tlu; large wardrobes that are tali enough to 
contain dresses hanging up, tlu'ri; is a s'na!ler sort, about the 
size anil height of a bureau, with four shelves instead of 



drawers, all enclosed by a two-leaved door, opening in front. 
They stand on castors, and are made of mahogany or stained 
wood, and have advantages over bureaus, as they preclude the 
trouble of pulling drawers in and out; the whole being opened 
by a door, one lock suffices for all. Every thing that you 
w^ould keep in a drawer can be laid just as conveniently on the 
shelves of one of these low commodes. 

There is frequently much trouble with the handles of bureau 
drawers, particularly if they are of glass, as they are very apt 
to come off in your hand. So, indeed, are the plated and brass 
handles. Those of mahogany keep their places best, and have 
been introduced very successfully on the handsomest bureaus. 
Unless the top of a bureau is of marble, it is usual to cover it 
with a white cloth, either of damask linen, or of dimity, fringed. 
If a drawer is apt to stick in damp weather, the inconvenience 
may be remedied by nicely paring away with a knife a little 
of the wood on the side edges. 

Bandboxes are seldom used now, except for the convenience 
of conveying a cap, bonnet, or dress to the house of a friend or 
a milliner. They are rarely found among the baggage of a 
genteel female traveller ; square wooden boxes, w'ith locks, 
. keys, and handles, being substituted for them. These wooden 
boxes are generally tall enough to contain a folded dress under 
the bonnet or other millinery, and should be painted on the 
outside. They will last many years, will bear exposure, and 
can go outside with the rest of the baggage. Tall square 
leather trunks are sometimes used for carrying bonnets, &c. 
A paste-board bandbox ought to have a strong loop of twine, 
red tape, or galloon, passed through one «idi% large ejiough to 
slip over the hand in carrying it. To secure the lid, bore two 
holes in it near the edge, one on each side, and pass through 
them strong pieces of string, each about a quarter af a yard in 



300 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



length, fastened by a knot on tlie inside. Make two corres- 
ponding holes near the upper edge of the bandbox itself, and 
pass a similar string through each of them. Then put on the 
lid, and tie each pair of strings *in a tight bow knot. There is 
no better way of keeping a bandbox fast. 



TOILET TABLES, MIRRORS, &c.— The most elegant 
dressing tables are of mahogany, with marble tops, having at 
the back a large mirror, with candle-branches or lamp-brackets 
on each side, and furnished with drawers to hold all tlie conve- 
niences of the toilet. Dressing tables of plain unpainted wood, 
willi white covers, and valances of muslin mad<^ full and deep, 
and descending to the floor, are not yet quite out of use. For a 
common bed-room, a toilet cover of fine buff-dyed cotton clutb, 
with a frill at the top to conceal the place where it is nailed on 
to the table, and set off with a purple or dark-brown binding, 
looks infinitely better than might be supposed; and will appear 
clean much longer than one of white muslin. The small 
movable looking-glasses, standing on feet, are much out of 
favour for dressing taljles, as they scarcely show rpore thaji 
your head, and are very easily upset. Instead of those, it is 
now customary to fix a large glass upon the wall at the back 
of the table or bureau ; suspending it by a double riltbon to a 
strong hook, and making the string long enough to allow tiie 
glass to incline consideral)]y forward, so as to give the persons 
that look into it a better vi(;w of their fijrures. For steinir the 
whole figure from head to foot, a cheval glass (also called a 
Psyche) is now a very general and useful piece of furniture in 
a handsome chamber. It is very large, stands on feet with 
castors, and can be made to incline backward or forward, as is 
most convenient. It has also on each side brandies tor lidits. 
In every chamber should be a second glass, small and easily 



CHAMBER FURNITURE. 



301 



moved, to t-ake in your hand for the purpose of looking at the 
back of your head and neck, after dressing; the large glass 
being in front. This small back-glass maybe hung in a recess, 
or over the washing-stand, at a convenient height for seeing 
your teeth while cleaning them. 

On the toilet table keep always your dressing-case, your 
bottles of cologne, Florida water, &c., and a large pincushion, 
filled with pins of different sizes, including some that are very 
long and stout, for the purpose of pinning shawls. 

The best pins are those with pewter heads, as they do not come 
off, like the wire neads. In buying black pins, try several to 
see if they have good points and go in smoothly; as many of 
them (particularly what they call the jet-black) are so rough and 
blunt as to be useless. Those of a bluish tinge are preferable. 
The little minikin pins are very useful for ribbons, frills, &c. 

In building a lartre house, it is very customary to connect a 
private dressing-room with each of the principal chambers. 
This room ought to have a good light, and also a fire-place; 
and should of course contain whatever may be wanted for the 
purposes of washing and dressing. But in most American 
houses the business of the toi](it is still performed in the sleep- 



mg-rooms. 



WASIIIN(;.STAXDS, TABLES, &c.~-The most elecrant 
washing-stands are of mahogany, with marble tops; they gene- 
rally having a closet underneath. To any washing-stand, (even 
to the plain ones that are made simply in the form of a table, 
with a drawer, and a shelf below,) a marble top is useful as well 
as ornamental; mahogany or stained wood becoming very soon 
disfigured witii wet and soap-stains. There should be sufficient 
spare on the top of the washinjr-stand for a large basin, a 

large pitcher, a water-bottle that holds at least a quart, a 

2b 



302 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



BEDSTEADS. 



303 






m 



glass tumbJer and a china mug; and also space to ac- 
commodate the different china receptach^s for soap, tooth- 
brushes, nail-brushes, &c. Under it or near it a deep foot- 
bath should be placed. These are either of white ware, or 
to match tlie basin and pitchers. On the left side have a 
wooden stand, (something like a circular stool,) to elevate 
the slop-bucket about a foot from the floor, which otherwise 
will be in danger of much splashing. A slop-bucket, for 
receivintr the water that has been used, is, or should be, an 
indispensable accompaniment to all washing stands. They are 
sometimes of maple, with brass hoops; but we think ])ainted 
tin slop-buckets far better than those of wood, as they fan be 
kept clean more easily, and are not so apt to acquire an unplea- 
sant smell. On the left-hand of the washing-stand should be 
placed ihe towel-horse, which may be of mahogany, maple, or 
stained wood, having two bars across ; the upper bar being an 
inch or two helow^ the top, and tlie lower ont; about fnirteen 
inches farther down. If the second bar is placed too low, the 
towel hung on it, even when doubled, will trail on the floor, 
Tlui feet of the towel-horse should hv strong and htavy, that il 
may not be easily ovcTset. Towel-liorses may be obtained at 
a very small cost, and no chamber should be without one, as 
the paint of a cliair will soon becomo niuch defaced by the 
practice of han(rin<r a w<;t towel over the back : so also will tlio 
wall. No towel should be h>ss than a yard long. 'J'hey may 
be of linen damask, thick bird's-fyi^ diaper, or of white hucka- 
back. The last is th<' best for common \ise; and if of the first 
quality, it wears better than any other towflling: its usual 
price is twenty-five cents per yard. Thin, low-prlcf d tr)wclling 
wears so l)adly that it is not worth })uying; and cotton towels 
are not ufivd by persons f)f gente(d habits. Foot towels arc 
usually of thick unbleached linen. 



There are large, deep washing-stands, that contain inside 
the })itchers, basins, &c., and a broad, shallow slop-bucket, 
and have a lid to open with hinges, which, when shut down, 
conceals the whole, and makes it appear like a table. These 
stands are uschI in libraries, in oflices, and to place in a recess 
of the passage, down stairs, for the convenience of washing 
hands, without going above. 

There are low w^ash-tables, for the convenience of washing 
very young childr(>n. They are made of proper height for the 
low chair on which the nurse sits, while she is performing 
this ofllce. They have a shelf beneath, tf) contain the pitcher; 
and in the to}) is cut a small hole for the soap-cup, and a large 
one f(>r the basin, wliicdi should be very capacious; so that 
the baby, in its earliest infancy, may be immersed in it, and 
when older, mav be seated on the table, with its feet in the 
water. 

A table, to use w^hen writing or sewing, is an indispensable 
article of furniture to a chamber. Writing materials ought to 
be kept m (*very bed-room, that th<^y nray be ready for use, 
when wanted ; a work-box will not be omitted in an apartment 
bcjoni^nng to a lady. A hanging shelf, for books, is far better 
than to lay them about the mantel-piece, or on the top of the 
bureau. 



TU^DSTEADS. — In providing your chambers with bedsteads, 
it is always best to purchase them all quite new ; otherwise, you 
never can be certain of their being perfectly clean, and free from 
ins( cts which the approach of warm weather may bring out. 
For a large and handsomely furnished chamber, no bedstead 
!(W)ks so w<'ll as the s(juare, high ])(»st, witli curtains. Wliat 
are ca!l(>d French low post bodsteads, are preferred by many 
persons, who have an objection to curtains. We thmk, however, 



9 



304 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



PUTTING UP BEDSTEADS. 



306 



(to say nothing of the dreary and coniforth^ss appearance of a 
curtainless bed, in cold weather, particularly when a sick per- 
son is lying in it,) that the winter climate of most parts of 
America is such as to render curtains highly desirable at that 
season, to all who can conveniently procure them. It is not 
necessary to draw them closely all round ; but if the heads of 
the sleepers were always screened from the cold air of a cold 
room, there would, perhaps, be fewer tooth-aches, rheumatic 
pains, coughs, and sore-throats. Still, there is one very serious 
objection to bed-curtains, in the rooms of children, or of any 
persons that are not habitually careful ; the danger of their 
being set on fire. When this accident doe^ happen, it may 
sometimes (if instantly perceived) be extinguished, by catch- 
ing up the end of the curtain, and with both hands squeezing 
and crumpling it down upon the burning part, so as to smother 
or crush out the flame. 

Unless the room is so small, that it cannot be fixed other- 
wise, no bed siiould be placed with one side against the wall, 
particularly in summer, as that position impedes the free 
circulation of air round the sleeper, greatly increases the heat, 
ami seldom fails to produce insects. A room must indeed be 
small that will not, by judicious arrangement, allow of .so/ne 
space on both sides of the bed ; and even a little is better than 
noiK^ 

What are called canopy beds are generally placed with one 
side against the wall, that a beam or circular block may ho 
fixed in it, from which the curtains are to descend. This is 
not necessary for canopy curtains, if the bedstead is made ac- 
cording to a new and exc^dient French fashion, of a low })ost 
bedstead, with two liigii jxdes directly njjposilc ; out; rising 
from the centre of the head-board, and one fruin the foot-board. 
Both are connected at the top l)y a corresponding bar or 



horizontal pole, over which, the curtains are arranged by large, 
movable brass rings. These curtains are in the form of a tent, 
only that they hang- full and open, both at the sides and at 
the head and foot. They consist of four long straight pieces, 
having three breadths in each. They are looped up, or tied at 
the four knobs of the low posts; and when let down, and 
closed, they descend to tlie floor. The head only of this bed- 
stead is against the wall. It is called the French double pole 
bedstead. 



TO PUT UP BEDSTEADS.— The windlass bedsteads, 
that are now so much in use, are very easily put up. They are 
in four parts; all of which must be stood up together, held by 
four persons, and closely fitted into each other at the corners. 
Then the winch or stick that is sent with the bedstead must 
be put into the hole, at one of the sides, and wrenched round 
w ith a stronfT arm. This tijrhtens the whole of the wood-work, 
and nothing more is to be done but to lace the sacking tightly 
over the pins. 

To put up a high four-post bedstead, you must have the 
small iron instrument called a bed-key. Place the two head- 
posts near that part of tlie wall where the bed is to stand, 
and lay the foot-posts on the floor, at a proper distance below, 
'i'he pieces should all have marks or numbers, to designate 
those that match each other. Place each foot-post opposite to 
its corresponding head-post. Next, lay the long or side-pieces 
in their proper })laces, then the short or end-pieces that go at 
the head and foot. Then put one long and one short screw at 
earli conwx of the bedstead. The assistance of four persons 
will now be recjnired, to rear up the four posts, and set in the 
sides. Next, slip the head-hoard into the ^rrov. s ; and then 

proceed with the bed-key to turn and fasten the screws flrmly. 

2G* 



308 



,P<^ THE HOUSE BOOK, 



BED-CURTAINS. T 



307 



The four long screws are intended to screw into the sides, and 
the four short ones into the ends. The screw holes into which 
they are inserted are under the little round brass plates, which 
must be turned aside to get at them. Next, lace up the sack- 
ing; to do which well, and to secure its knots firmly, will 
require the strength of a man. Finally, get on the movable 
wooden steps, (such as is used in all houses for putting up 
and taking down upholstery,) and fix the four pieces of the top- 
rail, by slipping the holes at the end of each, over the spikes 
at the top of each bed-post. 

If there is a straight cornice at the top of the whole, it is 
best to put it on after the curtains are up. 

If there is no permanent mark upon the different pieces of a 
bedstead, mark them yourself, with a pencil, previous to taking 
them down, that you may know how to fit them when put up 
again. 

Tent bedsteads, with curved tops, are put up in a similar 
manner, with a bed-key ; taking care to fix firmly the ribs that 
supjtnrt tlie roof. 

In summer, a largo bod is far more j^lcapnnt than a small 
one ; as it enables you, vvlien one part becomes warm, to remove 
to the oth(^r, which is comparatively cool. 



BEI)-CIJRTAL\8.— Tbese may be of chintz, damask, rich 
silk, or broad-striped dimity, 'i'be last will, of course, bear 
washing perfectly well, but will also rc(|uire it once at least in 
the course of the season; and an opportunity of doing it should 
be taken when the weatlier happens to be somewliat mild. 
Clieap and very well-looking curt.iius may be uiiule of tiiick 
domestic shirting muslin, (iy<'d of aline butf, with andotta and 
pot-ash, and trimmed witli worsted fringe, or a binding (jf 
purple, dark brown, dark green, or crimson ; to be ripped off 



when washed, which will not be necessary before spring. The 
upper valance need not be made full. It will look very well 
plain, cut into large deep scollops or Vandykes, the edges deco- 
rated with coloured binding or fringe. Curtains for square or 
high-post beds are frequently made in long, straight, full pieces, 
without any drapery or festooning, running with rings on a 
brass rod round tiie top of the bed. The foot-valance of a bed 
should always hang full; it is fixed by tacking the binding 
with small nails along the frame of the bedstead. 

The best sort of chintz curtains are generally lined with 
coloured glazed muslin. This lining must be taken out and 
renewed whenever the curtains are washed. 

The bed-curtains and window-curtains should of course be 
of the same material, and corresponding in form. Their colour 
should contrast well with that of the wall, which in cliambers 
(as in all other rooms) will look best of a light or pale tint. 

Curtains of figured or damasktHl brown linen, though not 
handsome, are very lasting and economical ; and may be set 
olTwith a bright coloured fringe or binding. 

All rurtains ought to be well shaken every day, and frequently 
brushed between the folds witii a hand-brush. To prevent tlie 
dust from accumulating on the top or tester, cover it with sheets 
of cartridge paper, (or very stout brown,) the edges laid over 
each other. These will receive the dust which would other- 
wise lodcre and accumulate on the tester, and they can easily 
be removed, brushed of^', and returned to their places. To 
make those more accessil)le that cover the middle part of the 
tester, the ed(res of several sheets had best be pasted together 
yo as to firm a l;irgt^ K(|uare. 

In summer, after the «'urt,uns are taken down and put away, 
it is well, on a high post bedstead, to have a tester and top- 
valance of dimity or white muslin ; otherwise the bare posts 



I' 



308 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



BEDDING. 



S09 



and lop-rail will look nak«jd and lUKrainly. There should also 
be a white foot-valanc(? to correspond. 

It is usual at the head of the bed, to have watch-pockets of 
the same material as the curtains. If there are no curtains, the 
watch-pockets may be of velvet or of buckskin. 

By the side of a hig-h bed it is customary to have steps for 
the purpose of ascending- it easily. Bed steps are generally of 
mahogany, covered with Brussels carpeting. 



BEDDIN(^— Many persons think it conducive to health to 
sleep very hard. This is only the case with peculiar constitu- 
tions. Generally speaking, most people will sleep more com- 
fortably, and feel more refreshed afterwards, on a moderately 
soft bed or mattrass. Kv(>n in summer, and in w-arm climates, 
a mattrass should not be so hard as to have no elasticity. If 
the mattrass is sufficiently thick to prevent the feather bed 
beneath from rising or swelling around you, the proper end is 
answered ;is far us liealtli is in (jueslion; and certainly the 
comfort i> inuch trrcater than if all beneath you is so Jiar-J and 
compact that yn\i cannot but i\(A as if sleepinrr almost on a 
floor of wood or stone ; as is often the case, when a thick, solid, 
hair mattrass has nothing under it but one equally solid of 
straw. We l)eliev(^ thore are few grown persons who, during 
the severity of an American winter, would rral/i/ find their 
health impaired by sleeping with th(j feather-bed on the toj) of 
the mattrass; and f . w that, in the summer, would find them- 
selves too warm by having a ft^ather-bed, instead of a paillass(s 
uvflrr?wnfh a mattrass of modorate thickness. Domestics ar.d 
working pooph^, m ],o h-avo to sb^.p on v(>ry hard beddinir, fre- 
'pit'ntly complain of rising in the morning as tired as when they 
went to bed, and of feeling as if they had not strength to go 



about their work. Children, no doubt, suffer much from the 
same cause. 

Mattrasses of horse-hair are cooler than those of wool. The 
long southern moss is frequently used as stutling for mattrasses. 
The mattrass should fit the bedstead exactly ; so also should 

the bed. 

Linen bed-ticking is far the best ; that of cotton stripe, though 
lowest in price, is eventually the most expensive, as it lasts 
but a short time, and the feathers are continually coming through 
it. When a tick becomes so old and thin as not to retain the 
feathers well, it is best to get a new one, as the daily loss of 
feathers will soon materially diminish the size of the bed. It 
is well for the chambermaid to keep a paper bag, in which to 
save the feathers that she finds on the floor. 

Beds, bolsters, and pillows are not comfortable unless they 
are large and full, and well stutfed with feathers; it is a pitiful 
economy to put in so small a quantity that they become nearly 
flat as soon as you lie down on them. Each bed should have 
two pillows ; and it is well to have some extra ones in the 
house, in case of illness. The bolsters ought to have white 
linen cases, as well as the pillows. There is no real economy 
in buying cotton sheets and pillow-cases, even t^ur servants' 
beds ; as cotton, besides being very uncomfortable in summer, 
lasts but a short time ; and when it begins to get old, it tears 
unexpectedly in all directions. Linen bedding is universal in 
genteel families; except when winter sheets of thick cotton 
may be preferred, as somewhat warmer in very cold weather. 
For servants' beds, Russia sheeting is the best and most durable. 

For a large double bed, it is well to have each sheet three 
vards lonir and two vards and a half vvid<', that theri; may I'O 
plenty lo tuck in, particulaily if there is no bolster-case '1 o 
save a little linen, sheets are often cut out so short and so nar- 



310 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



BED COVERS.' 



311 



rov,-, thai, as they can be tucked in nowhere, tliey keep their 
places nowhere, and are uncomfortable all night. For a sino-le 
bed, the len^rth must be the same as for a double one, but two 
yards will be wide enoucrh. When a sheet that has been loner 
in use becomes thin in the middle, it may be turned by rippin<r 
down the seam, and then sewin^r up the two outer selvaires 
which will bring together the strongest and best part of each 
breadth. All the bed-linen should be marked with the whole 
name of the family; and each pair of sheets and pillow-cases 
should have the same number or figure, so as to designate the 
different sets. In making pillow-cases, let them be lar.To 
enough to admit the pillow easily. They are frenuentlv frilled 
at the ends, and fastened with buttons. They look very white 
and nice with an under-case of thick w^hite muslin. 

Pillows stuffed with bits of clean paper, cut about half an 
inch square, are said to be very soft and cool. Hop pillows 
are so?netimes recommended to invalids, or persons who sleep 
badly. To repose comfortably on a square French pillowy 
stuffed with hair, requires some practice. 

Except in very cold climates, it will not be necessary to allot 
more than three blankets to each bed; beginning with one in 
the autumn, and adding the second and the third as the weather 
grows colder. The blankets should be larger every way than 
the bed, to allow for tucking in, and for turning down at the 
head. Blankets of the best quality will last many years. At 
the close of spring they should always be washed before they 
are put away. Where the winters are very severe, eldvr down 
quilts and cotton comfortables are frequently used, in addition 
to one or two blankets. 



kets and place them on it, having sprinkled between every fold 
either shreds of tobacco, or bits of camphor. Shavings of 
Russia leather are also a remedy against moths. Having piled 
the blankets smoothly, put the remainder of the sheet round 
them and over them, and pin it up tightly in various places. 
Then lay the whole in a large chest or in a dark closet. Let 
them remain unopened all summer. In the autumn, after the 
warm weather is entirely over, have the blankets all brought 
down on a fine dry day, and hang them out on lines to dispel 
the scent of the tobacco, if you have used it as a preservative. 
In putting away your blankets, always leave out a few, 
('allowino- one for each bed,) in ceise of a very cool night, such 
as sometimes occurs in the summer season, and also tliat they 
may be at hand to begin with, as soon as the warm weather 
is over. 



TO KEEP BLANKETS THROUGH THE SUMMEP. 

-Spread a large coarse sheet on the floor. Fold up the blan- 



BF.D COVERS.— White Marseilles quilts keep clean much 
longer than the knotttMi white counterpanes. They are not, 
however, so durable; as the surfac<" of a Marseilles quilt, being 
hue and thin, soou wears off. Tliey may afterwards he cnv«>red 
with an outside of fine, white, thick muslin, and qiiilti d over 
again. Patch-work quilts of old calico are only seen in interior 
chambers ; bat they are well worth making for servants' beds. 
The custom of buying new calico, to cut into various ingenious 
figures, for wliat was called handsome patch-work, has become 
obsolete. Quilts are now made entirely of the same s.)rt of 
dark calico or furniture chintz; the breadths being run together 
in straifrht seams, stutTed w^ith cotton, lined with plain white 
or bulT-dyed thick muslin, and (juilted simply in diamonds, 
shells, or waves. For a larg<' double bed, a quilt or auy other 
cover should be three yards hmg, and about three yards 
wide. It is usual to have a quilt or bed-spread of the same 



312 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



chintz as the curtains. For very clotrant beds, the covers are 
g^(^neral]y of silk or damask, (also to match tlie curtains,) with 
a silk lining-, and a trimming of fringe to correspond. 

Summer bed-covers are usually of furniture chintz or of 
dimity, with a binding all round: and, if you choose, a cotto^i 
fringe. They should have no lining, or they will be too warm 
for tlie season. In many families, unlined spreads of furniture 
chintz are used in winter as well as in summer, dependino- for 
warmth on a sufficiency of blankets. This we think a good 
plan, as it enables you more easily to regulate the covering 
according to tlie temperature of the weather. 

The old-fasliioned country coverlets, woven of coloured yarn, 
are still used in country houses. They have the advantage of 
being light as well as warm, are extremely durable, and wash 
well. It is best to liave little or no white in them. 



WASHING A rOLOI^KED QFILT.— Make, in a very 
large tub, a suds of brown soaj) and water that is not very warm ; 
adding a small tca-riipful of nx-a-all to st-t tlir- oolours of tin; 
calico. Put ill tlir qnilt, iind \v;i>h it we]]. A ftf^rwards %\ash 
it tlirough a SfM-cnd suds, and wring it very dry. Tlu-n rinse 
it tlirough ihrrr cold waters, wringing it very hard out of tlie 
last. Hang it immediately out to dry, with the wron(r side 
outwards. An hour (-r t\yo before evening, turn th<^ riixlit side 
out. Take it in at sunset, and fold it up. Next mornin^r, hano- 
it out again ; as one day (evon in summer) is not sufTieiont to 
dry a <]uilt thoroughly, the eotton with which it is stufTtd 
remaining damp a long time in the inside. Towards the end 
of the second day brinir it in, fuld it up, and (if it is perfectly 
dry) put it away. A (piilt cannf)t lie ironed. It is best to 
wasli them latf^ in the spring, when they are no longer recpiired 
for the beds; they will then be ready for the cold weather. 



W A S H I N O Q V 1 L T S, E V C. 



:u3 



^ Jn a similar manner you may wash a chintz bed-spread, in 
two luke-warm lathers, (as hot water will certainly fade it,) 
with two table-spoonfuls of ox-gall stirred into the first suds. 
A spread (being single) will dry much sooner than a quilt, and 
must be sprinkled and fohhul, and afterwards ironed on the. 
wrong side. 



TO WASH A MARSEILLES QUILT, OR A WHITE 
(M)UXTERPANK. — Rut it to soak over-nitrht in a lar^re tub 

.■"1 n 

witl) luke-warin yvater, (in which has been mixed about a (piart 

of iy<S} and rub some brown soap on the (piilt. Next morning, 
wash it u}i and down '.i while m the soaking water ; then vyring 
it out, and put it into a clean tub of warm soap-suds, and give 
it a good washing. Then do the same through a s(^cond suds, 
(hotter tiian the first,) and wring it out very hard. Rinscj it 
through three cold waters; adding to tlie last a little blue from 
tlie indigo bag. Having wrung the counttTpane very dry, hang 
it out in the sun, wronir side outward; takin^r it m towards 
evening. N.'Xt day. hatu.f it nut ;i<rain, witli the right side f.nt. 
It may pmbiiMy take three days to dry com})let<'ly. It must 
on no aec(!unt be put away with the siiirhtest dnmpness about it. 
In wash.!ug a (juilt or counterpane, never use soda. 



TO ^lAIvE COTTON (M)MFOR'J\\RLES.--'iM,ese are 

Soft thick (juilts. n>e(l as substituU-s for blankets, and laid luula- 
tlie bed-spread. One of theni is e(pial in warmth to thr(!e heavy 
blankets; and tlu'V ar.' excillent in cold winters for persons 
who like to sleoj) extremely uann. In chambfTS with fire, or 
in a ro('in that ha.s bar! a fire ail day, a comfortable will iwnp- 
raily !><■ found too warm a coverii'.g, exc'^pt in severo weather. 
It IS best tM w^^i- tin \t\ in cold apartments only. If the hoiise 
sliMuld b(^ (Tiiwdtd with o"uests, so as to caise a scarcity of 



314 



THE nor Hi: book. 



beds, a thick comfortable may be foimd a convenient Bubstituic 
for a mattrass. 

Early in the sprino-, all the comfortables belong-in^ to tho 
house should be washed and put away till wint(?r. 

A comfortabh^ for a lar^-e or double bed oufrht to be three 
yards lonj^ and ihwc yards wid(\ You may make it of jrjazed 
coloured muslin, (in which case it cannot be washed,) or of fur- 
niture chintz, or cheap calico. It is best to have; both the lininyr 
and the outside of the same material, iiavino- run the breadths 
totretlier, place it in a quilliriir-frame, and lay on tbe cotton bats 
thickly and evenly, eacb one a very little over the ed;x<i <>f the 
other. A comfortable of tbe above size will require three 
pounds of carded cotton bats. It should be quilt(^d in very hirtre 
diamonds, laid out with chalk and a lontr ruler, or with a cord 
line dipped in raw starch, wetted <o a iliin paste with cold 
wat-er. In quiltinrr a comfortable, you need not attempt to take 
close, short stitches. 

In lavinjr tbe cotton betwcf^n the lininfr and the ontsiths h^ave 
U7isf ufftd Vih(^\i\\v.\\\' :\y,[r(\ o{i .■,'i.'h sid*- :\iu\ vA \\iv hnUoifi ; hut 
continue the stuthnn" quite up to the top <;r brad of the coinfort- 
abie. Let the thin ])art, however, be (piilted the saim^ as the 
rest. By thus hnivimr a thin border round tho sides and bfjttom, 
you prevent tlie inconv(iiienc(^ so olum objected to comfortaliles, 
their tendency to slip olT the bed ; as the thin part can be easily 
tucked in, so as to secure it perfectly from all danfrrr of slidinir 
out of place. 



TO MAKE A STLK QUTLT.—This i^ a licrht and con- 
venient article for a cotieh or f^r a chihrs crib, and will be 
found extremely us(-fiii in a sick-room. It can be iiwide verv 
economically out of two silk dresses, after the bodies are past 
wear. Take the two skirts and ffirst renirivinf with \\ ihiiiinr- 



M \ K T N (? S I I. K mil, T S, K 1 C, 



315 



ton clay any prreasc-spots that maybe on them) rip them apart, 
turn them, and sew them tofrt-ther afrain. You may add to the 
length by takinjr th«> two sleeves, (if they are wide enou^li,) 
rippino- them open, and joining them across tlie top of the 
breadths. After all the silk has been turned and re-sewed, 
sprinkle and fold it, and iron it on the wrong side, pressin^r the 
scrams w(dl. Take care that the irons are not very hot, or they 
will discolour the silk. Then put it into a quilting frame, and 
lay in one thickness of the glazed cotton wadding in sheets. 
Quilt it in large diamonds. 

In most families, at h^ast om^ quilt a year might be made of 
left-ofl" silk dresses, exclusive of tliose that may be cfnwerted 
into petticoats. The skirts of two silk dresses will make a 
very good winter |)etticoat, interlining them with cotton wad- 
dintr. They should first be ripped apart, ironed smoothly, and 
turned. If you have not a quilting-frame at hand, you may 
quilt a petticoat on a large table, or by spreading it on a !)ed. 
The most conveni(>nt way will be to quilt the breadths sepa- 
rately. f( ae)) with its waddinn" and lining.) and tlsen to sew 
them to'.rether afterwards. They should Ite quilted itt large 
diamonds, with thre«> or four straiirlit rows ahwig the bottom ot 
the petticoat, which ought afterwards to be bound with very 
btout ribbon or broad o;dloon. 

A wadded petticoat may be made without (piilting, by tack- 
inrr or bastincr the sheets of wadding to th.^ lining, as is done 
in making a eh.ak or a pelisse. It should he basted with very 
stronir srwincr-silk in long needlefuls; taking rare to tie firmly 
the end of every fresh needleful to the end left of the last. 
Run several straight rows along the bottom aft* r you have put 
on the outside silk. 



316 



THE HOtrSK BOOK, 



MAKING Ur A BED. 



317 



TO MAKK UP A BED.~As soon as tho bed is vacated, 
fasten back tlie curtains, (if there are any,) and let tho clothes 
he all taken off, and spread st^parately over the chairs; the pil- 
lows and holsters placed near the windows, and the bed turned 
up towards the head, or pulled down at the foot, so as to expose 
the sacking- to the air. This should be done by the occupant 
of the bed, immediately on rising, before she bep^ins to wash 
and dress. The sashes should be raised, (unless the weather 
is rainy,) and the room ouirht to be thoroughly ventilated, for 
at least an hour, even in the winter season. If the weath<'r 
is such, that rain or snow is likely to come in at thf! windows, 
f)n quittinix tht^ room leave the door open, or at least a-jar, that 
as much air may be admitted as possible. The atmos})liere of 
no apartment can be wholesome, unless it is well ventilated, at 
least once a day. Bi^sides which, a room continually closed, 
and a bedst(^ad, from which the beddimj^ is not removed till the 
moment before it is to b(^ made up, will infallibly produce in- 
sects. 'I'he sash(s should be kejU raised, while tht; bed is 
niakin<T, 

V\ hen th'- hcd is sufficiently aired, turn it over, and with 
both iiauds, take it by Ihr miihlle, and shake it w< 11 in evsry 
part, and smooth it cveidy : t.ikinfr care nni to have it hitrlicr at 
the toot, than at the iicad. If there is a niattrass above th(; 
bed, tnrn up the lower half of tho mattrass, and shak(> up that 
part of the Ix'd ; then turn down th<Mipper halfofihe mattrass, 
and shake and smooth liie upper part of thf; bed ; and thon tix 
the mattrass evenly. Next, sj)read on the under shet t, tuckmir 
it in all round under ihr sides of the mattrass; so as to ktep it 
smooth and even, and t(» prevmt its wrird<lin<r, dra^r^-ini^, aiiti 
Kcitiiin- (111! ot' place (loriun- the ni^rlit. \( it ha,'-- a white Imen 
case, sfiake iij) t!i( holster well, ami hsy i' "ii after the nnih'r 
^hief. It it has no ease, draw up this she* i more to the heaii, 






and tuck it well over the- !)ack of the holster, but do not stretch 
the under-sheet tiohtly, so as to dra^^r the bolster down at night, 
causin^^r it to get b. neath the shoulders of the sleeper. I/ay it 
easy, and pat it with your hands into the hollow between the 
bolster and the bed. Next, spread on the upper-sheet, tucking 
it well under at the bottom, lest it get loose and out of place 
at ni<rht. You need not tuck it at the two sides, as yon did 
the under-sheet. Then, ii" there are blankets, lay them on 
smoothly, securing them in place by tucking tliem in at the 
bottom and at the lower corners. Next, put on the spread or 
counteri)ane, taking care to have it smooth and even, and turn- 
in<r it down at the head with the upper-sheet. Then beat up 
the pillows and lay them in their places, the open ends 

outwards. 

Before you sweep the room, it will be well to cover the 
\^diole of the bed with an old sheet, or something of the sort, 
kept for the purpose in a closet. This will screen the bed from 

the dust. 

If the counterpane is white, told it up on the wrong side, 
,,,id .]o not put It on the bed, till alter the room is swept and 
dusted. If there are curtains, keep them f;istened back, and 
take up the long ends of the falls, and place them on the bed, 
that they :aay be out of t!ie way while you are swe(;ping and 
dusting. Also turn up the valance. After the room is swept, 
the curtains should be w(dl shaken, and the dust brushed out 
of the f .Ids with a hand-brush. .'// ImM once a week, the 
upper part and th<>, tester should be brushed thoroughly. V on 
ran reach them, by standing on the bed-steps, (if th.>re are 
any,) or on the movable steps with which most houses are 
pruvid.Ml, or by getting on a high chair. If dust is allowed to 
acrumulate in bed-curtains, it will cause hugs. 

Of (•e-urse,the. b"d must always !>e n.^ade before the room IB 



o- * 



318 



T HE HOUSE BOO K. 



swept. But if thero is to be a fire in the room, that should be 
kindled first, and the iiearth put in order before any thing 
else is done. 

In some families, it is the custom to have in eacli chamber 
a small deep tub painted white ; and a larffc stone pitcher of 
warm water, is left every morning at the room door. IJy this 
means, a tepid bath can be taken immediately on rising; and 
this, to some constitutions, is more conducive to health than a 
cold bath, particularly in warm weather. 



CLEANING A BED-ROOM.— If a fire is to be made in 

the chamber, that, of course, must be done the first thing, 
taking up and carrying away the ashes, sweeping the hearth, 
(which must afterwards ho washed with a wet cloth,) and if 
it is a coal-grate, putting uj) the blower. Next, if there is a 
hearth-rug, or loose bed-side carpets, take them up, fold th«'m, 
and lay them in the passage or out in the balcony, till tluiy can 
be carried into the yard and shaken. Having washed your 
hands, proceed to make' the bed. Ft is well, instead of putlmg 
on the counterpane at once, to fold jt wrong side cut, and biy 
it m that inanin r on the bed, till the swetM)inir and dtistintr is 
over, ('over the whole b(Ml (bolster and })iilows al^o) with a 
large old shee't or something of the sort, kept tor the purpose 
of screening the bedding from dust while the room is cleaning. 
Then, having l)rought with you a large painted tin slop-bucket 
with a close cover, empty all th<^ slojis, and rcjdace tlie cover. 
'i'hrow a towel over the empty pitchers, kc, to ke<'j) th<> dust 
out of them. It will then be time to take down the blower. 
The next tiling is tn swerp the room, bftrininng under the !m d, 
which slujuld [)enio\e!l on' if you (mhik'! oiIm r\\ isc make eh an 
the flo.,,r !»eneath, A damp ni-'p is .m rxr* Ih",! tliiip' 1'. - chIIim t- 
inu ami f'ri!i^in<j out th- Ihn !>• 'nitin'h r t!if bed. vvardrol,-e. ^'c. 



CLEANING B ED- ROOM i^. 



319 



Also, sweep carefully under the drawers, tables, &c., and behind 
the trunks or boxes, leaving no dust or cobwebs in the corners 

of the room. 

If there are dippings, scraps of paper, or threads about the 
carpet, pick them up before you begin to sweep. When you 
have nearly done, open the door, at which you should have a 
tin dust-pan and a hand-brush, and sweep into the pan all the 
<lust, &c., from the room, l^y the time you have carried away 
ttie siop-!)U(!ket and the dust-pan, the loose dust that has been 
raised by the broom will have settled. Then, with a soft dust- 
in<T-cloth,(ro first over the surbase, not forgelling the door-lock, 
duor-panels, and window-frames, and then over all the furniture; 
shaking your cloth tre(piently out of the window, the sash ol 
which should ha open all the time you are doing the room. Sha.ke 
the curtains well ; and if there are Venetian blinds, dust the 
slats as high as you can r(-ach. Dust also the mantel-piecfs 
fire-irons, <S:c. For the looking-glass and pictur-s hav(> a clean 
rloth. When you have thoroughly dusted vwry thing in the 
room, lirinu some warm wat( r and two clean clot.lis, and wash 
.md wipe (inside and out) all the ero.-kery beloncrinir L, the 
apartment, beginning with ihe glasses and j)itrhers, and not 
forrretling the receptacles for the soap and the touth-brushes. 
Tin n, having wij)ed the washing-stand, set everything m lU 
place, and arrange nicely all the artiidt^s on the toih't,ihe tal)le, 
and the mantel-piece. Afterwards bring back and lay down 
the lo(.se carj)ets, spread the count,erpane i)roi)erty on ih.^ bed, 
and arrange the curtains. Next, bring in ^i larg<^ clean bucket 
r,f fnsh water, (which sliould be furnished either with a tm 
dij.jH ror ;i spout,) and fill the j)it(diers -and water-bottle. Hang 
clean towels on the toWel-horse, leaving thm tie w.t .aie that 
ha- been made use of that morning, spn ad cait t-Mlry. It may 
be used during the day by 'lie occup oit t th- h lo.ie ;. ! i o.y 



320 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



purpose lor which it riii^rht not }»e necessary to take a i)crrcct]y 
eiean towel, besides the line towels, there «houhi he on the 
horse a ihick on(; for washing- tiie ieet. If it is summer, how 
tlie shutters or let down the blinds before you leave tli(3 
room. 

In the even innr, after tea, nfo round to all the rooms with your 
slop-bucket, empty the thinfrs, and then brinn- fresh water to 
replenish the pitchers. fSee that the horse is supplied with 
clean tow<ds,that th(^ night-lio^hts are in order, and tlie shutters 
I'asteneii, if in winter. 

JSome chamtx^rmaids hav«^ an absurd jiractiee of fillinor the 
jtitchers with the fresh water before they make the bed and 
sweej) the room, instead of deferrin^r it to the last. This should 
he forbidden; as, when done hrst, the surfact^ of the fresh water 
will l)e covered with Hue and dust durijig the progress of liie 
bed-making and swt^eping-. 

In some families it is the custom for the chambermaids to 
have all the bed-rooms an hand at once; lirst g"oing rouiu! and 
iii;d(!n!.r ali the i)eds; then sweepnig all the n'oms; then diet- 
ing them all ; and lastly pcrf.rminir ;i tour with the iVcsh water 
and clean tow( Is, 'J'his is a most inconvenient j)ractice ; as it 
keeps all the chambers imfmished, and in disorder, nearly the 
wliole mornincr; so that not one of them can l)e occupied, wiien, 
perhaps, there are persons in the house who are particularly 
desirous ol haviniT j)osse8sion of their rooms as soon as possilde. 
The best arid, most c<>f!veni«^nt way is C(;mj)letely to fimsh llu; 
work of every room (jncludinfr the fresh water and clean towels) 
hetore yon [>e^-in another. Also, if done separately, they are 
usually cle;oird v\ith more care them when hurried thiduoh by 
uh<^i(s;ile. If there are visiitTs in the house, let ^'e.j/' chambLrs 
be dnne irrst, 'i'he l)ed-room of an early ris'T nny ea->i!v brt 
pii^ ill '■!;".' r fp f -.re hreakttst. it' required. 



WARMING ni:i)S, E'lC. 



;i2i' 



TO WARM A BED, — The moBi usual manner is with a 
lonrr-handled brass warming--pan, filled with hot coals, and 
moved all over the under she<H; the upper bed-clothes being 
turned <l(iwn to admit it. The lu^at produced by a warming- 
pan is, however, very soon gone. A bed may be kept warm 
much longer by heating a l)rick in the oven of a stove, wra])piii(r 
it u[) (dos(dy in a large, thick, old chjth, folded several times 
round the brick to prevent its burning the sheets, and putting 
it into the bed near tlie fo(it, seeinc- that it is not too hot. An- 
other way of warmine- a ])erson in bed is, to take a large {)lack 
bottle, fill it with hot water, t-ork it tightly, wrap a cloth round 
it, and lay it against the soles of the feet; having ready a 
second bottle of liot water to replace the first when it bi'comes 






Siprare toot-covers of wadded silk, slightly (piilted, are exc(d- 
lent to wrap round the Ieet, if cold, when lying down, 'i'hey 
are still better if stufled with eider-down. 

There are little hand-baskt ts, lined with fur, to put llie te!;t 
in while riding in a carriaeo when the ucaile r i.-^ very ciilii,e>r 
while <jn a slei<jiiin'_r {>art\. 

»^niall piirtable f<,'e)t-stove^5 of jMTlorated tin. set in a wo(Mlen 
franu', and cont'.iining a little iron pan to be liiled w ith hot 
co;ds, ,ir( excellent lor keeping tlie feet warm in winter, when 
sittiruj still. 'I'hey cost but a trille, and no house shtjuhi i)e 
without them, particularly win re wornl is bufiil. 



TO DKTKCT DAMPNESS IN BEDS.— First hav<- the 
bed well uarniod with a warming-})an. Then.ibe moment the 
pan is taken out, mlroduee benveen the sheets an invert. d fjbiss 
tumbler. After it has rernaine<l tin re a f'vv minutes, w itlidraw 
it. It ilit glass is found dry, you may go to Ind wiilu/u; any 
appreheiioiuiis of chill or rheumatism. It' the plass is covered 



'S2'Z 



THE IlOliSK liOttK. 



N ITRH E U 1 E S. 



:n3 



lo 



with drops of wtl or daiii}) nU'imi, your safest way will he 
take oil the sheets and sleep between the blankets; as you may 
most probably be unable to obtain a second pair that are dryer 
than the first. 

Many })ersons have eau<rht .severe eolds by sleepintr on iu>w 
beds, tiie featliers of which were not sulliciently dry. JJefore 
a new bed is slept on, it should be exposed several days to the 
hot sun, or warmed in a stove-room. 



I'O STOP Tin: CMiACKS OF DOORS AM) WIN- 
DOW S.—IUtbre the colli season connnences, the windovv- 
sashos of the eliand)ers should be made tiu-ht, and the doors 
Sf>cur(Mi ajrainst th(^ admission of currents of air wIkmi shut. 
This will scarcely be neeessary in a vt^y W(dl built house, 
where thi^ doors and windows all fit p(^rfectly, and where the 
Wood-work, Ixinnr w,>ll seasoned, has not shrunk. 

\\ b( re tliere arc larire crucks at the bottom of the door, Ir.tvo 
a thick slij) of wood naib d on the tloor outside. A similar slip 
Tieiy be naibtl a!oii(_r tlif side e.f ttir door-case- wIhti* it .>pen>. 
\\ r have seen tlie'-e liith^ eovt red with crreen baize sowed on 
litrhtly, and the iiails driven tlirouo-h the baiz(! only. Ai«o, 
kee|-. the key always in tlit> lock, as a stronir drauoht of nir 
rushes throu(rh an o})en key-hob;. For inf<Tior rooms you m;iy 
nail a stout slip of listinir (the selvau'o of (dolb) all al(«nix 'ii'' 
outside e.f the crack; takimj it edf in the spriiiir. \\C have 
setai, in (dd-fashioned houses, (jilt or morocco leatlier (junkod 
or scolloped at the edtre) tacked with g^ilt or brass nails round 
the rrack of a door; and as it was eonsidered (Kniainenta! as 
well as useful, it was b it there all sumnu-r. A loiirr imrro'W 
bair, made ofcarpetiri^r ,,r thi(d< (doth, and lilbnl bard v>ilh sand, 
will soiiu'what lessen tlie draui^rhtal the bottom (d' a do(_>r, if 
laid on the lioor out.^^iib . 



For the outside doors, and tiiose of the best rooms down 
stairs, it is usual, to have a broad, thick, brajis ledfre fastened 
to the floor, so as to scrc^en the crack at tln^ bottom of the door. 

In the chamber of an invalid, it is w(dl to have a tall, stand- 
inn- scriM'n, p/laced just within the door, that when it is opened, 
the rush of cold air may be felt less sensibly. 

In a very severe climate, wliere it is thoufrht best not to raise 
the sashes dnrin^^ the winter, they may be madt> air-ti^ht, by 
pastin<r slips of thick j)a]ier over tiie cracks, littinfr them neatly ; 
or by nailin<i; all round the vvindov^ -frame, laths covered with 
baize. Some persons stuif the cracks with waddin<r, put in 
with tlie poml of a knite or scissors. Tiiere is frt (juently, how- 
ever, 'j^reat dilTieulty in removinir the waddini^ in the spring; 
hits of it workii^n; in so tar, and stickiiKj; in se) fast, as to pre- 
vent the sash from 'j,oinir up and down. A window -sasli may 
be kept very tiirht, by mere ly sti{d^inl!: into the cracks, several 
little w ed ires (d" wood two (u three inches loni{, about an inch and 
a. badf wide, and shaved (juite thin t(»wards one (A^ tlu^ ends. 
.\iiy boy eun make- tie m nut of a slip, ot' thiu board. They 
e lu be puilrnl out in a miimte, when it is necessary to rai>e tiu; 
sa>li, and rejdaced as easily when it is shut down. 

In the ru)rth. most e.f the windows are rnadii with double 
sashes, as ])revenllves to drau<rbts of cold air. 



MRSKIUKS,— 'I'he (diildrerrs apartment is trto fretpiently 
one f>f the least comfortable in the house, btdn*.^ either a damp 
'iloomy division of the baseiufjut story, or else a narrow room 
in what is called the baek buildir!ir, e\cessiv(dy warm in suir.- 
iiM r, by r* ason of its havin^r a low ecilintr, aaid windows fiem^ 
the b. ams (A the afteruoon sun. it is important to the health 
ot" ali (duldren, that the mir-ery should be larrre, airy, and 
ebeerliil in its aspeet ; '.nid that it sboidd be comfortably warm 



324 



THE HOUSE BOOK, 



HI Winter, and cool in suinirK^r. Jt it opc^ns into a balcony, so 
much the better, ii not, the chihlren should be secured troui 
the danger of falling out, by iron bars placed across the lower 
part of the windows. We have seen iron windovv-«niartls inadt; 
very ornamental, l»y beintr cast in the form of trellis»\vork, and 
painted green. If there are no guards at the bottom, the sash 
bhould only be opened by letting it down at tbe top. 

At the head of the stair-case nearest to the nursery, we have 
seen a gate like thai of a })aling fence, with a fastening that 
could not be o])ent;d by a small child; and all tlie bars or laths 
were pi^rpendicular, to prevent the possibility of climbing on 
them. 

The nursery tV^nder should be very high, and firmly fixed, so 
as not to be easily removed or overset. If there is a close 
stov(i let it be surrounded by a high screen of block tin. 'i'lie 
tables should have no sharp corners; neither shouid there Im; 
projecting shtlves within reach of the children's heads; nor 
any hooks or nails in the lower ()art of the wall. Have a sulli- 
cient number of low chairs and stools, and a small lew table, 
on w hieh the ciiildren can " make their feasts." There should 
be a elns. t. in whicli ali their play-things may be eelli cteMl 
and put away at night, blight gaudy toys, that are merely 
fer show, atTord no amusement t(^ children. They do not Iiki; 
{)lay-things that they cami(>t j)lay with. A rag-d()ll, (as babies 
of siulled linen ari; most disn^spectfully called,) with plain 
clothes, that can be put on and taken olf at })leasure, and 
washed when dirty, and that can be thrown about witleait 
danger of injury, will give far meire enjc^ynn^jU to a little giil, 
than a splendid, but fr;igile efligy ol' wax or j)l,ister, in lialuii- 
nif Ills ot satin, and gau/r, and spangles; very show \, bui every 
))art ot the dress seued .^1 last, and immov aide. !\Iiiiialare 
articles (jf crockery, tin. ai.d wofiden war* ; nii,- -jm-; 1)1. eks 



THK ATTICS. 



3^5 



for building houses; little carts; wheelbarrows, &c.; are always 
interesting and agreeable to children; most of whom also take 
great pleasure in a slate and pencil. Their slates should be 
small, (of six cent size, for instance,) and furnished with two 
long twine^ strings, one for the pencil, and one for a bit of 
sponge. We cannot but think, that if every child, at two years 
old, was supplied with a slate and pencil, every child would 
teach itself enough of drawing, to lay a good foundation for 
the ac<}iiireinent of that useful and delightful art, when culti- 
vated at a later period. We have seen very intelligible sketches 
on the slate, made by children of four and five years old ; and 
in evvry instance, the same young pc^rsons have drawn admi- 
rably, l)y the tinn.^ thi^ were fourteen or fifteen. 



TllK AT'I'JCS.— The attic or upper rooms of a three story 
bouse are generally appropriated to the domc^stics. It is well 
that at least one of these rooms should have a fire place, in 
which (where coal is burned) a small cheap grate may b,- set. 
T'pper fe.uins where Wu,,d is burned in an open fire-plae. , :ire 
Very apt U) smoke, t>om th(; shortness of the distance to the 
top of tiie chimney. Where there is no fire-place, there should 
!)e a hole made in the chimney part of the wall, for i\w admis- 
sion of a stove-})ipe; as a small close stove, either for wood or 
coal, may be found necessary in case of sickn(>ss, or if tl,(> 
room should chance to b<^ for a while occupied by on(. of the 
members of the family. In well-finished attics, there are fre- 
*iuently shutters to the windows. If there are no shutters, the 
Miii-h.ams may be ex<-luded, by thick blinds of lined wall 

P^ip^^r, or of stout brown linen, or even of strong d(,mestic 
cut Ion. 

It is b(^st to have a s.>parate bed for each of the doniestirs. 
Many a valuable hired woman has left lier })la<^e, rather iha 

28 



an 



'f 



> • 



32 G 



T li i: HOUSE 1H)0K. 



THE ATTICS, KTCJ. 



327 



be obliged to sleep in the same bed Avith another female tliat 
\vas (iisafreeabie to her. Servant-women wlio have just eome 
from Kurope, not imlre(piently arrive with contaf^aous diseases, 
jiroduced or fostered by ihe lieat and dirtiness of tjie steerairr ; 
and a clean American female is justifiable in objecting to tiie 
risk of haviiisr such a bed-fellow. 

I^ainted low-post bedsteads are best for the rooms of the 
«lomestics : who, if they had curtains, might ver}^ probalily set 
lliem on fire\\ith l}ieir candbs. What are called cot-bedsteads 
;!re ohjeetionahl(\ on account of the difficulty in kei^ping thmi 
Ir.H* iVoni biM's. The sheeting may bt^ <A' stroiuT unbleachfd 
linen t"or summer, and unbleached domestic cotton in the 
winter. One of tlie (piilts called comfortables will give as 
mueh warmth as thre(^ blankets. 

In winter let there be a piee«> of carpet to lay down by the 
side of each i)ed. In siunmer it will rK)t be necessary. 

Each stTvant's room should be furnished with a washin<>- 
f;\ble, a looking-Mass, a table, and several cliairs. In nrnod houses 
lh< re ar^' nt nrf.illy eio.-,. Is in tlie ;\tti<'s. If there ;irc n*- cldsets, 
let .1 tew shelves be put up, and also some ]»egs or large iiouks, 
on which they may hang their (dothes, with a curtain of thi'dc 
calico or clieck to screen them from tiie dust. 

The walls of garret-rooms sliould always be white-washed ; 
and it is well to have lliis (haie twace f'very summer. \\ hile 
we urtri" the humarnty as well as the nolicv of (riviiei' the ser- 
vants of a family no real causf-, to complain of want (jf conifert 
in tindr sleeping-rooms, (or in anything else,) w^e also suLTgest - 
the expediency of tl-e mistress of tlu' hous(^ seeini^r that t!ie 
attics are /iv/// co'/ifnrlal/Ir, \)\ due attention heinc- paid to th« ir 
cleanliness. The domestics sleiild all he instructed tn take 
oir tiie l)ed-(dothes and sjsread them out on (diairs, early in the 
uiorning, as soon as thev are up; puttinijf the Itolsters and 



pillows near tin; window, and raising the sash before they leave 
the room, so as to admit the fr(>sh air. After ib.e (diambermaid 
lias finished her work hidow, she should go up and put the 
attics in ordvr, sweej)ing and dusting tlu^n every da.y. Insects 
are frequently conv<^y(«d to the chambers of the family upon the 
clothf-s of s(^rvants who come out of dirty beds and dirty garret- 
rooms. 

If mouse-holes are found in the attics or in the loft ;<])ove, 
they should be immediatedy stopped uj), and uu asures taken to 
destroy the mic(^; otherwise these troubb some littb> ;uumals 
Will be very likely to find their way to tlu^ lower apartments. 

In sumnuT, the attics should be scrubbed at least (.nee 
a month, and the bedsteads taken down, examined, and 
cleaned. 

A bell from th(^ ror,m of the lady of the liouse to that of the 
cook is indispensabbs that she and the otlier (bun, .sties may 
liavt^ notice when tr; rise in the nn^rnine-. Many servants, 
Ip'wever, have tlu' excellent haldf (and it is ; a^ily actpnred) 
ol waking oi llieiuselves, iui.l ri>iML!; ' f th. ir (^wn acmrd at 
dav-li'dit. 



SIv^ LKillTS. — Tiu' sky-liebts w hi(di ar(^ ir^-eradlv placed 
on the roof to liirht the upp* r stair-case, should have V( ry thick 
<:lass, ea.(di pane httiiiLr exactly; else they are liable to bak, 
a'ld to be broken by a violent rain or liail-storm. Tley are 
soiiit times made with a h"od or wooden coverin<_r, to be shut 
(b,wn previous to a storm. Care should be taken that all the 
wood-work of the >ky-iiglit (as well as th(> cbi-s^, fits te-litlv; 
o;b. rui:^e it will not mly b ;dv fri.m rain, bot from tbr mating 
"I th.." snow, when il thaws. As soon as the sthu I as cease.! 
bi]lin',r, some one should ^ro up ;uid reanove it a1 enc.- (ubile it 
is still sf, ft) from tie sk}li-bt,whie}, will oth,.p.\!sr be entirely 



328 



T H E II O U S E 15 O O K. 



darkened; and, if tli(; snow frcezt 8 on it, may probably remain 
obscured for some weeks. 

On liandsonie liouses we frequently see a lantern or Belvidere, 
instead of a common skylight; and they are much better, as 
th(^ glass, standing- perpendicularly, is in no more danger from 
rain or snow than any of tlie other vvindow^s. 



KNTHANCK II ALl.S, &c.— The entry or hall should be 
kept extreme ly clean. A neglected entry will give strangers 
an unfavourabh^ impression of the house. If there are two 
doors, one within tlie other, so as to make a square space or 
vestibide between, it is best to keep the outer or street door 
unlocked, that visiters may at once be enabled to go in and 
shelter themselves from the weather; while the inner door is 
always kept fastened with a dead-latch, if you are apprehensive 
of thieves. 'I'he btdl being at the front door, tjie jjcrson who 
rings it can go in, and wait in the vestibule till tin; servant 
comes to admit him. it is well, in the vestibule, to have 
always two chairs or a smali settee. TIk- iloor (if not of 
niailde) is usually <"overed with oil-cloth ; and a foot-mat is of 
<-iMirs(! indispensabh'. 

If the inner door is kept always fastimed, each of the princi- 
jtul members of the family should furnish themselves with keys 
i'nr the dead-latch, getting them made by a locksmith after thi; 
[tallern of the first key. 

In the passage, beyond the inner door, let tlie hat-rack and 
umbrella-stand hv placed, and near them a row of brass hooks, 
hxed at a proi)er heiiiht for han<nn(r up «r<.ntlenu ii's cloaks and 
surtouts. The l,>est hat-racks are' those with a mirror. 

'I'Ihto should he a settee r.r a f 'W chairs in the entry, that 
j)ersons waiting tliere may have an op])ortunity of sitting down. 
In the recess near the stair-case have a table or shelf ti; hold 






ENTRANCE HALLS, ETC. 



329 



-t 



M 



the small chamber lamps in the evening, with a larger lamp 
alw-ays burning, by which to light them w hen wanted. If the 
drawing-rooms are up stairs, two hanging lamps will be neces- 
sary, one to light the passage below, and one for that above. 

As there are no pictures or curtains to be set oiT by the con 
trast of a sober-coloured wall, the walls of the entry and stall 
case may be painted pale blue, or light green, h^mon yellow, 
blossom colour, or cream colour. If the liall is wide and lifr},t 
it is usual to hang it with large maps on rollers; for instance, 
one of the United States, one of i\\v state you inhabit, one of 
Kurope, and one of the world. 

Some persons, in summer, sliade the fan-lights of the front 
and back door with green paper cut to fit exactly, and fastened 
up with small headless tacks. These p.sper-screens are in- 
tended to prevent the sun-beams from fading the carpet ; but 
they darken the passage extremely. 

The servant tliat attends tlie front door should have (n>neral 

orders to go immediately, as soon as t!ie bell rings. And on 

opening the door, lie is nm to hi(!,> b. Imid it when rjivit,^- ;;,i 

answer, as if ashanu-d in he seen. If decently dressed, (as ho 

always ought to be,) \hvrc is no cause for shame. I !e shouhl (rive 

an answer at once, without stop})ing first in stare at the stnniger; 

and without hesitating, as if coining a falseleM,.,!. The hiirhly 

reprehensible custom of ladies, when tb.'y dhl not wish to see 

Visiters, onlering their domestics to deny th.>ir Iwuvj at borne, 

is now very properly ex})loded in good society. 'I^he servant 

IS directed to say that the ladies are enrrafrod, or that " thev do 

not see company to-day." When this is understood, the .!o,i.es- 

tic that opens the door, is not to pause and say tliat 'Mie will 

go and see/' |„it he will reply pronii)tly as !,e has br-en tohl. 

When the family are at homr., and ititenrl (o receive ttieir 
friends, the servant in she.wino- a ladv or n, otleioan to the 



ii'l 



•Jr^ ^ 



330 



THE HOUSE ROOK. 



drawinfT-room, should inquire the name of the visitor, and an- 
nounce it as he holds open the door, that those within may know 
who is coming;. If none of tiie family are in the drawin<T- 
room, he is, on showintr in the stran^rer, (a lady, for instance,) 
to place a chair near the fire, if it is winter: or to invite her to 
tak»; a seat on the sofa, if it is summer. If the room is dark, 
he is to open the si) utters, or turn the hlinds, so as to give 
sufficient li<Tht. He is then to inquire the name of the lady, 
that he may inform those of the fauiily, which of tlieir friends 
they may expect to see. When the lady is about to depart, lie 
will he at liand immediately after hearintr the parlour-bell, to 
<-o forward and open the street-door for her. 

There siiould be mats at each of the passatre doors, and at 
each parlour door. For the latter, mats of shag-try wool, like 
a sheep-skin, are much in use. The mats should all be laken 
into the van!, and shaken and beaten every day, at the time th(^. 
entry is swept. 



THE FRONT DOOR.-^It would h^- well if all rlnor-steps 
W( r«; funnsht'd wilh hand-rails. Witlujut iht'iu, thrrt^ is luiich 
danger of slippin<r down in icy weallu'r, or at night, cr for per- 
sons that are lame. In Philadelphia, it is tlie custom (and a 
very good one) to wash them every day, (usiug- warm water 
in wintiT,) and also the j)av(>inent before the house. A t)of- 
scraper is an indispensable appendage to a front door. As Si)'.>i\ 
as a snow has done fallinjr, and bf;fore it has time to lr«'e'/f, iL 
should l>e immeil lately cleared entirely away from the door- 
stej)s, and jtavement. it is then an easy task, but a vrry dilli- 
cult one after it has frozen. To say nothing in regard to the 
(ian^"(T of persons slipping d(Avri on the ice, and bring- severely 
injured, (ol' wliieli there are instances every wiiter.) an icy 
deor-step or pavement has a wretched and slovenly a})})( .irance. 



THE FRONT DOOR. 



331 



jrives a mean aspect to the house, and is alto^etlier inexcusable; 
for if you have not a man-servant to clear it away with a spade 
or large shovel, yon can g;et it done for a trifle by the poor men 
who g-o -about for that purpose after a snow, and to whom such 
a job is frequently an act of charity. We have seen stout 
little boys, the sons of gentlemen, find great pleasure and good 
exercise in shovellinjr the snow from the door in a brirrht win- 
ter morning'. Also, let the pavement and steps at the l)ack- 
door be cleared from the snow as soon as possible. If, how- 
evf^r, the snow has been allowed to freeze on these places, keep 
the ice always well covered with ashes, or sprinkle salt on it. 
livery winter there- are limbs broken, and lives endang-ered, 
from falling; on icy pavements or frozen door-steps; accidents 
that would never happen, if every citizen did his duty in keep- 
ing- his own premises free nmn ice, and ii i.ie public bodies 
were equally vigilant in having; the snow immediately cleared 
awav from the vicinity of the public buildint»-s. 

II obliged to walk on snow or ice; carj)et moceasins are ex- 
cellent preventiv«>s j'rom slippiu'j; an<l so are hroad-^ohd India- 
rubber shoes, of the lliiek oM lashioned sort. 

Just within the front door, have always a large mat to wipe 
the mud or dust from the feet. We have seen, in addition, a 
la/ge foot-brush, half a yard square, of short, stiff bristles, set 
in a heavy wooden frame, and placed near the mat. 

if you live in a handsome house, and have lamps at the 
front door-step, it will not only add much to the convenience 
of those who go in and out, but also be a great security ag-ainst 
thieves, to have these lamps lighted every night, and not mendy 
when you expect company. No robber will attempt to force 
his way into a house, if the front is well lighted a.l! the time; 
aii'l tli» :;i!diti..rial evjxiise (»f .jil v.iil not be UA\ by any tamily 



332 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



DOOR-LOCKS, ETC. 



333 



tliat can aOord to reside in an eleg-ant mansion, rontaining 
valualilc plate and costly articles of furniture. 

Tlu^re is great convenience in havin<r in a front door a slit 
for the reception of nevvspa{)ers, letters, &c. This aperture 
should l)(^ perpendicular, (not horiz(>ntal, accordin<r to th(^ old 
custom,) and its hf;st place is just above thc^ handle of the lock. 
Over it should he placed a movable brass or silver-plated cover, 
to be slij)ped to one side when a pap(>r is thrown in, and 
replaced, 'i'his cover, if handsome, will make the slit rather 
ornamental than otherwise. 

No privati^ dw(dling- should he without a name-])late on tlu^ 
door, '['lie want of one fre(jurnlly causes much iucoiivciut'nce 
to stranm-rs, jiarticulariy in a row of houses that are all alike, 
and in streets whosr^ similarity is so freat as in Phila- 

.' r-' 

dolpliia. 



I51''IiLS, — No room sliouhl he witliout a hell; as thon* is 
n«i part oftho house in v\hich a hell may not be u^rful, partii-;;- 
Idrly in c^^se of accidruts, or of persons being t;ik<>n suddenly 
ill ill the ni'/ht. Tt would ht> ;i tjiujd custom, iu lafo-o private 
lioiises, tf) have the reioms and hells numbered, as in hotels. 
Much trouble may be spared to the domestics by estublishiruj 
diderent mn(h\s eif rimrinjr the Ixdl, so ;is to apprize them nf 
\N li.il is wanted [)efor(> they (-ou\{' uj) stnirs. l"\«r instance, let 
it be understood that if a servant is t<» eome tor the purpose e.f 
receivinn- a messaoc or an order, the beil is to fie pulled mirr .- 
niul if fuel is wanted, let it be pulbnl fwirr.- if licrhts, fhnr times : 
it water, fmir times. In srune families tlu^ manner of riiun'rin- 
the bell is so rea-ulated, as t.-. denot;\ not the thinLT. bsit tho 
servant that is wanted : as, ouf riun- f,r the waiiin"--man ; Iwu 
f I' 'lio hity ; three f )r the chamherrnaid, \'e. 

'I'h*' h.mdie ni the front-do,,r b-H sh-Mild h' p1 i(». d b-w, s 



I 



^o 



as not to be out of the reach of a child. The bell itself should 
be large, and loud enougli to he iieard in any part of the house. 
In hanging it, let the wire go along as straight as possible; for 
bends and turns make it hard to pull effectively, and frequently 
cause it to be broken in the efl'ort. We have known houses 
into which it was very difficult to obtain admittance, on account 
of the inefficiency of the door-bell, or the ahnost impossibility 
of pulliiig it so as to sound ; the visiters being not unfrequently 
obliged to give up the attempt and go away, m despair of being 
lieard by any one. 

Brass knockers are now crmsidered old-fasliioned ; but tlu^y 
have at least the advantage of being easily sounded, and never 
getting out of order. 

. IX^OH-LOrivS. — There is no economy in finishing a house 
with door-locks of inferior price and rpiality ; as they are so 
often r»ut of order, that the frequent expense of having them 
r(q)aired soon becomes rrrc>at(3r than would have IxM^n the addi- 
tional cost of havmn; ^ood (tnes at hrst. Brass locks and keys 
•,ire Ihe b( St, and ther«'b>ri the nu.'St ecun'iiuical; a rule that is 
u(.f)d in m-arly every thing. It is well to have all tlie locks 
and keys engraved in corresponding hgures, that the exact key 
of every Inck may be known at once; key No. 3 bf longing, of 
e.M.rse., to lock No. 'A, If the number is marked on a littb> round 
piece of brass attaidied to the key, do not have the edu;e of tlie 
brass ornamented by jagging, as is sometimes done; for the 
}M)mts or scollops are very inconvc^nient, ami hurt tlie hand 
v.henever tin; key is '.ipplied to tlie look. 

When the hin<_r«^s of a door bt 'jin to creak, rub them v/ell 
Willi lamp-oil or with sott s>ap. 

'i'lie praetiee of puttmu heavy w» i;zlits to a door, tor the pur- 
pose of caiisin'4 it to shul i.nmodiat* ly ot' it^^eli, is nnt a good 



334 



THE HOUSE BOOK, 



' « 



C. H IM N i; Y ?. 



335 



one; for (to say nothiri<T of the loud and disanrror;;])le noise it 
occasions) very bad accidents have happened to cliihlren, from 
being caught in a door wiiile closing so rapidly that they could 
not escape from it in tim(\ We have known a tea-u aiur w ith 
all its china demolished, hy the person that carricMl it ixiinr 
unable to pass with suflicient (juickness wiien the door closed 
M ith a weiofht. 



CHIMNEYS. — Smoky chimneys are intolerable antidotes 
to comfort, and therefore^ care should he taken to construct them 
otherwise. Perpendicular ilues, that go up <juite straight, are 
much more apt to smoke than those that are zigzag, or have 
bends or elbows in them. The longiT the chinHu;y, tiu; better 
the draught; for wliich reason fire~j)laces in the upper story 
v.ill be frequently incommothd with smoke, while th(,>se farther 
down are entir(dy tree from it. In two-story structures, the 
chinmeys should be very tall, l(*st their draught Ix^ overpowered 
by adjoining !)uildings that are higher. 'I'his is sonu-times the 
case, cviu in a three-slory house, \\ lu-n onf' of f lur siorirs js 
( rcctrd beside it. Tlie remedy then is to raise tlie chiinuevs 
of the low(?st hous(^, or to put })ots or cowls on them. Two 
separate tbjes in the same chimney should have no comnumi- 
cation with each oth«;r before they reach the top; otherwise 
on(^ of them will bt^ se.re to smok(>. It is be^t to narrow the 
aperture at the top of the chimn(^y, that there may i)e h^ss sj)aee 
for the wind or for damp air to rush down the flu(\ Also, 
chimneys (those of kitchens ))articularly) sometimi^s smoke 
from having the aperture iartre in the extreme at tlie hott(>m. 
'i'iie smoking of a larcre fire-jiiiKc may he se»nutinies partially 
rt iuetlied by a }ii(M'e of sheet iron ;ib(ait tlie (h pth ol eiirht, ten, 
or twelve inches, nailed along the \vh(*le trout of the ehimnej- 
piece. 



t 



FLOOllS. — In building or new-mod(dling -.i liouse let the 
lloors he mad?', of wood tliat is very well seasoned, otherwise 
they will shriidv from th(^ walls : leaving largi^ cracks round 
the surbast^ to become places of egress and ingress for coek- 
roaclu^s and mice. It is well to have all the floors perfectly 
level on each story — it being inconv(>ni(^nt for children, and for 
servants carrying things, to have a stt^p or two to go up or 
down in nassin<rfrom room to room. 

When th(^}' are not to bt^ car])eted, it is an excfdlent plan to 
have the floors j)ainted ; as it })n servers tht^ wood, fills np the 
cracks, and sav( s much liard-scrubbing. Wliite or had colour 
is best. The strip of floor at the two sides of the entry an<i 
stair-carpet looks very well painted whit<' ; and instead of 
scrubbing, it need only be washed with a wet cloth. 



DAMP W ATiliS. — If a new house is finished in the autumn 
it is not prudent for the family to remove into it till late in tlH3 
sprintJ, particularly if it is Imili of stone or brick. The walls 
re'(j(irre a lon«,;- time to dry tlr T' (ImjIi I v, and the «_rerifM-;d liiiiiii- 
dity uiirused through the rouins by the danijuie-ss of new [.das- 
terinrr has been f)und. in many instances sadly deleteri.. us to 
the headth of some of tlie occupants, eitluT hy producing alnu-st 
immediate riieumatism, or layino; the foundation of })ulmonary 
complaints that ended fatally, it will be well to have the 
grates and siov< s set early in the autumn, and a fire made np 
once a day in (^ach of them throu<jhout the winter: some per- 
son going daily to the empty house to attend to them. 

'i'he expi^nse of these fires will be am[)ly compensated !)y 
thi; confidence ot" security from daniji, v\ilh which vofu niay 
tak(^ possession of your new house, when the spring has set in. 



336 



II o rs K - r LF. A N 1 N (;. 



337 



II ( ) U S E - C L K A N I N G , vK: c. 



PREPARATIONS. 

In soiiio lliniilics there is no !X'"r»'^'r»ii house-cleaninf al stahd 
periods, hut tli(! rooms are scruhfx'd, wliitowaslied, <S^»"., one 
at a time, as may he most convenient. Put th(! usual custom 
in America is to liave the liouse com{)hle]}' cl( aned from loj) 
to hottom twice a ytar; hate in th(^ sprinjr and early in liie 
autumn. As the tenij)eraturf; of the s<"dson varies in difiennt 
]>arts (S {\\i' Tnion, it is a ^ood ndo not to commence houst- 
(d<'anini4 in iho s})rinix ^'^1 ^i"' tr( es are all in full lea.f; hut to 
betrin it in autumn as soon as the leaves heconu; tintred with 
Ijrown ; havintx it entin ly over hetore the -JOth of Sej)tend)er ; 
at which time the < 'juinoctiai rains m.iy he (Xpecled, lire- wil! 
lie nreess;;rv, and the house ;!Md furniture ouj^ht no !onw< r i,) 
a|'|tear in the (ruise (.{" sunnner. But at no season shouhl 
h(nise-cle;uiinu" h(^ ("ommineed when ihert; is a prosjx ct ol had 
Weather. And the whole husiness may h" deferred or aulu'i- 
])ated a wr'ek or more, if there is a prosj)ect (>( the m<i,-<ter ot 
the family havin<jr husiness to take him iVom lujme at the jieii- d 
so imcomfortahle to all <n ntlenu n. We would a<lvise him, 
howev<T, hefu'e he j^oes, to j)ut his lihrary-tahle in order him- 
self, and to lock u\> (taking- the key away with him) all his 
papers, \('. 

Pesides the assistance of your own dr^mrstics, you will tind 
it necessary to employ at least threi' other persons; a white- 
wabher^ a scruhher, and a man to take charge ni the carp'^ts 



y i. 



You should Ix^speak thtdr services a wvvk or two beforehand, 
as at the usual bouse-cleanintr seasons they are much in demand, 
and you may he disapi)ointed in obtainintr them. It may be 
well to rmike a stipulation with them that they are not to under- 
tak(^ th(^ white-washinjT or ch-aninfr of another house at the 
same Uuw with yours ; a practice that is very common witii 
Ihem, rather tlian los(^ a job. The conse(juence is, that after 
<1oin<r a day's work (or })erhaps only a morninfr's work) at your 
house, they will ^nv oil" to another and work there awhile; you, 
in the mean time, seein<i,- nothino; of tluMii all the afternoon, or 
perliaps durino; the whole of the next day, to your -Treat disap- 
})ointmen.t and mcotivenience. 

The co(jk is never re<|uired to assist in house-cleanintr ; as 
at that time she will have enoutrh to do in {)reparinsr food for 
an additional numher of persons, and in clearin<r thincrs awa} 
after them. They should all have an early and substantial 
breakfast, and a luncheon betwt>en breakfast and dinner; they 
will work the Ix'tter iV*r it. And irive them their tea before 
the\' no hoiiie in the eveiiing. 

The tir^t thin-jr is to remove most of tht^ furniture from ihn 
rooms; the next is to take up the carpets. This will he done 
hv th.e man you have <'njraired to attend to them, and by the 
assistants of his own that he will brinn^ with liim. In l^hila- 
delphia it is ( asy to procure a coloured man who, for about five 
(hdlars, will un<lertak(> all the carpets of a larirt; house. Ho 
will hrinu a cart, into which he will })ut them all, after he has 
taken them t>om the fh)ors and fohh^l them loosely; and he 
will hr provide<l with carpet-slicks, brooms, and whatever is 
neiMssarv, iiududimr men to hel|> him. Flavini:^ taken the 
rarpet.^ to some on.e (d' tlie varaiit lots in the skirls of the city, 
he will iirake them perfectly eleaiu l/y shakinir and heating 
ihem lir^t. ,)i!d then layintr them on tiie grass and sweeping 



338 



T III: 11 r .'■ i: i' «^ <> '<^ 



them, lie will thru fold them nratly, -.uul hriiiLC ^hvm lioinp 
in his cart, ready to be put awny, iflhry arc not io Ih- in use 
durin(r the summer. It is \\ rll to ^ive him, before he <.roes out 
witli th(^ carjiets, a quantity of tobacco to lay amontr tin; folds, 
or a quarter of a (b.llar to [)ny some for the purpos(\ 

As soon as the carpets are P;on(\ the floors must all !)e swept. 
And this must 1)0 done Iwice over; as the first swee})in^r will 
only take off what is called therou^rh dirt. The lookimr-irlasses, 
pictures, ^'c, should Ix^ taken down, dusted clevm, and tin n 
laid u])on their faces on the beds, or on lar(re tnbles in the 
ccMilrc of the drawinn^-rooms, coverinij;- them with a sheet or 
l)lanket. The lamps, branches, vas(>s, and all the ornamental 
articles Ixdonoincr to the mant<'l-picce, centre-table, and ])ier- 
tables, had best be Cfdhn-ted all into one room, and (deaned 
wiiile there by some careful pirson. 



VVHITK-WASHINC.'.— The white-washinpr and scrui)bin.r 

sboedd ahvavs be commetici-d in the upper story, descendinir 
hv deirrics; the ^tsir-cast; bein^^ done last. In a new house. 
no wall shoidd (.n anv acce.uni be wbite-waslieil or paintc <1 till 
after the ])lasterin'j: has Ixcn dry at bast a yep.r. 

To make white-wash, put !um])s of (piiek-linu' into a bu(diet 
r.f cold water, anil stir it ;d.)out till it is all dissolvM'd and mixed. 
It should be about as thick ;!s <Te;nn. A pint (d" common white 
varnish, (whi(di can b(^ procured at a cabiiH^t-maker's lor a 
tritle,) mixed in a hu(dv( t of white-wash, will make it stiek lik(i 
paint. Instead of water to mix the lime witii, skim miik 
(whi(di mu^t be pcrlVctly ^w»<!) will make the w hite-wa.sh 
verv wh.ite and suioc.tb, and prevent it rubbin;>- ol! (asily. 
White-wash is put on v. nii a very baiir-handled hru-h, maait^ 
fr.r \ho |UvrpoSe ; and it sliould he sjiread thinly, smoothly, aa;d 



\ 



II O V S i: - C T, K A N f \ 



339 



tfwp' 



cvcnlv. '"vVhen it is (piite dry, n uiust or <jn\\>- (.\; r \v\' 



a 



second coat; and if the wall has previously l)een very dirty, 
or coloured with yellow oclire, a third coat of white-wash may 
be necessary. For cei!in<Ts, inst( ad of the Cftmmon white-wash^ 
it is best to <rive tliem a coat of what is called Paris white, (to 
be obtained ai, the paint-stores,) mixed witii water. 

All \ht) closets should be cleared out, and their walls white- 
washed, and the })aint of the shelves and doors cleaned. 






CLIvVNlMi PAIX']^ OR W AL\S( 'OTTINC — Have 

ready two bu(dvets (d' w a.ter, some iiard soaj), a flannel, a soft 
linen (doth, vmd some old, soft, linen towels. Paint will conu^ 
oil' if (d(>ant'(l with s(d't soap, {)earl-ash, sand, ("r a scrubbin^- 
I'rush. In one bucket, rub tin' soa[i in the water till it makes 
I liirht suds, dip in the flannel, and with it rub the j^aint well, 
riien, as you jjo aloiicr, rinse olT the soap with the soft (doth 
dijiped in the other bucket (d" water, and dry, as you proceed, 
with the old tow( Is ; iranijj-inu" tin in to dry in the window as 
they bt come \\( t. In this nraimer clean the doors, (r)n both 
siiies.) the window-tVames. shutters, mid wdiatever painttnl 
wood-wiiik "T w a.in-ci if t nic mav If ahoui tiie room; li^ino- th.c 
iiiovahle steps, wlaii necessary. 

If you find an ink-stain on the j-alnt, wipe it with the w(t 
corner of a (df)th dipped in oxalic acid, (( ither in po\vd( r or 
dissolved.) This will remove the nd<. Tin n, in a few minut( s, 
wash off the oxalic acid with aai ('Id tow('l and cb^an waler, 
if the paint is white, no trace of either the ink or the acid will 
he b>ft. If it is coloured j)aint, rub the })]ace with some ha.rts- 
h(»rn and water, and let it dry. The sa.me application will t.ike 
ink nut of a floor, or removn its stain from a malmL^any 
{aide, or iVom a carpet ; the hartshorn and water restorinji 
tiie coluur that has been faded hy the o\cdic acid m expt ilmg 
tbo ink. 



340 



THE HOnSE I?OOK. 



It is best to clean the paint directly aftvr the; white-washing, 
and beiore tiie windows are washed. 



WINDOW WASHIN(;.~-Havintr taken down the curtains 
or blinds, wash the outside of the windows, raising the sashes, 
and throwing ajrainst them cold water from a tin mug; looking 
out first, to see that no person is passing below. For the inside, 
tak(: a sponge dipped in luke-warm water, and rub each pane 
of glass till quite clean; finishing with a soft liiien cloth. For 
the best windows, after washing the glass with luke-warm 
water, (as above,) rub every pane with a buckskin dipped in 
fmely-powdered whiting, or prepared chalk ; and then wipe it 
oO" with a soft linen, and finish with a silk handkerchief. This 
will make o-ood (Hass look beautifully. To reach the top in 
(Meaning the inside of windows, you must stand on the movable 
steps. ]f there are Venetian shutters, brush or wipe them well 
between all tiie slats. If there are Venetian blinds, see that 
they are in good order before they are put up for the suir.mer ; 
aud, It' uecf'ssary, have them re-painted, and the cords re- 
nt- ued. 

It is said that windows will hxik much clearer if, in tlu^ water 
that is thrown u{) to wasli the outsuie, a handful of saltpetre 
has been dissolved. 



rUvVNINC; (MIAIKS.— Paint.d chairs should never 1)0 
scrubbed, as it tak( s olT the paint. It is suthcient to wipe them 
well with a flannel dipped in luke-warm water, and afterwards 
with a dry clotli. If there is gilding on the chairs, do net wet 
them at all, but wipe them witli a dry soft cloth. Chairs of 
curled maple may be washed with a li;innel and luke-warm 
soa])-suds, then rinsed with a eloth dipped in coUi water, and 
then finished with ;i dry cloth. 



HO DSE-C E E A N IN O. 



341 



Directions for cleaning other articles of furniture, will be 
found in preceding i)arts of this book. 



SCRrBBING FLOORS.— After the white-washing, paint- 
cleaning, and window-washing of each room iias been com- 
j)leted, le-t the floor be scrubbed ; flrst seeing thai it has been 
well swept. For this purpose, have a small tub or bucket of 
warm water ; an old saucer to hold a piece of brown soap, a 
lar<re, thick tow-linen floor-cloth and a long-handled scrubbing 
brush. Dip the whole of the floor-cloth into the water, and 
with it wet a portion of the floor. Next, rub some soap on the 
bristles of the brush, and scrub hard all over the wet place. 
Then dip your cloth into the water, and with it wash the suds 
otr the floor. Wring the cloth, wet it again, and wipe the 
floor with it a seccmd time. Lastly, wash the cloth about in the 
water, wring it as dry as possible, and give tin; floor a last and 
liard wiping with it, AftcTwards go on to the next part of the 
jh)or, wet it, serid) it, wipe it three times, and proceed in the 
same manner, ;i pier.- at a time, ti!! yuu liave gone over tise 
whole; chaniring tlie dirty water fi)r clean, whenever yo\i And 
it necessary. For a lar<re reom, fresh warm water will be re- 
(juired four or five times in the course of the scrubbing. 

When the flnor has been scrubbed, leave the sashes raised 

while it is drying. 

For scourinLr common floors that are very dirty, have by you 
an old tin pan with some gray sand in it ; and after soaping the 
brush, rub on it some sand also. 

In scrubbing the stairs, commence at tlie top, and como 
irr;ulua!ly downwards ; doing one step at a iim(\ and tlnishing 
each, l.w'fore vou Ix'gin tlie next. Fse f^r the stairs a hand- 
brush. iii-4. no of a \:r[i€ on. with a long handle. You will 



342 



THE HOTTSE BOOK. 



HOUSE-CLE A N I NO, 



343 



require clean water at least once for every flight of stairs. For 
the kitehen-stairs, you may use sand as well as soap. 

Before the steps of tiie staircase are scrubhed, ihe painted 
part of the bannisters should be cleaned. First sw^eep them 
well with a bannister-brush, getting all the dust thoroughly out 
from between the rails. Then wash them with soap and flannel 
and luke-warm water, rinsed oif with plain water, and dried f 
with a linen cloth. The mahogany part must be cleaned in 
the same manner as your other mahogany. 



FINISHING THE HOI SE-CLEANING.— A house- 
cleaning generally finishes with the kitchen, cellar, kitchen- 
staircase, and yard. The closets in the kitchen should be all 
cleared out, white-washed, and scrubbed. 80 also should the 
dresser shelves and drawers, the tables, &c. The tin-ware, 
iron-ware, and all the utensils belonging to the kitchen and 
cellar, should have a eomplete scouring; though, of course, 
they ought to be kept clean at all times. If any entirely u.-.e- 
Ifss lubhisli has bfcii allowed to acrumulatis lei it be burnt, 
rather than ociMipy spacr to no purpKse. 

At'ter th(^ sprintj hoiise-cU-aning, (wturh, east of Ne\N York, 
had best l)e deferred till June, or till the damp, chilly weather 
seems entirely over for the season,) ht the hre-place in one of 
the parlours be so arranged, that a Hre can be made up there 

!t' necessary. 

See that thr curtains, carpets, and any articles ol lurniture 
(hat may not be wanted during the sumnnr, are ()ut carefully 

auay. 

I.et all the books be removtd t>om the shelves, well dusted, 

and regularly arranged. 

Previous tn thr' aiituum hoiisr-elcaiiing, ht ail tliu chiiniH.-ys 
be -^wept ; at li;i.>t. all those iii v liieh \v(;()(l is hiirned. It will 






not be necessary to put up your winter curtains before 
November. 

At each house-cleaning, let all the bedsteads be taken apart, 
examined, and the joints washed with cold soap suds. 

If your liouse requires painting, papering, or other repairs, 
have them done just before the cleaning time. Previous to 
replacing tl.e furniture in your rooms, let every tiling be mended 
that requires it, 

TO REMOVE THE SMELL OF PAINT.— Take three 

or four broad tulis, (such, for instance, as hold about eight 
(rallons,) fdl them with cold water, and put into each an ounc(^ 
of vitriolic acid, which you can obtain from a druggist. Place 
these tubs near the wainscot, in a newly painted room. This 
water will ahs(jrb and rrtain tlu-. eflluvia of the paint. Next 
day, fill the tubs with fresh water, and add to eacli, another 
ounce of vitriolic acid. H(>peat this a third day, and on the 
fourth, \\\v smell of the paint will not be percr^ptihle. 

Raw onions, sliced, and set on jdatt^s about a n( wly painted f 
room, are said to take away the smell of jv.ant , or ratlier, we 
siijiposo, to change it for thiir own; which, certainly, iias the 
advantage of not being unwholsome, though to most persons 
far from agreeable. Tlu^ sliced onions should be every day re- 
placed with fresh ones, till after the paint has entirely dried, 
and Its smell is quite gone The onions that hav(> !)*•( n stand- 
ing m the atmosphere of the paint, should h(> tlirown into the 
fire, and destroyed at once ; as if eaten, they wouhl be j)oisonouh. 



TO TAKE CARE OF FFRMTURE WHEN THE 
HOUSE IS REPAIinN(;.~lt IS not always necessary, on 
these Mcci^iciis, to reiii.ive or pack awav the inrmiure, parti- 
cul-.iilv if tho rooms ar- large. Having taken up the carpets, 



344 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



r II E r A R I N c; i o r s u m m k r. 



345 



and had the floors swept, place the tables, and sofas, and lar^i^est 
])ieces of furniture in tlie centre of the room, buildin'r or arrano- 
inrr upon them and round them, all the other articles, so as to 
occupy as little space as possible, and be perfectly saf^ from 
injury. Cover th(; entire stack with old quilts sewed to^rctlier, 
or with your worst carpets, put round and over the whole, so as 
to concieal every article ; and then secure all, by sewintr to- 
jrether, as may 1x3 most convenient, the edges of the carp(4in^. 



PRi:PAIM\(r ROOMS FOR SUMMKR.— In some fami- 
lies, the carpets are re]>!aced on the floors, after the sprinjr 
house-cleaning, and kept down all summer; and no change is 
made in the furniture, except to put away tlie curtains. In 
other liouses, mattino- is substituted f )r carpetin<r : the sofas, 
Ottomans, and chair cushions are covered with chintz cas(^s ; 
and all the gibhMl articles are screened from the flies, by 
envelopes of muslin, gauze, or tissue jiaper. (Jauze, W(^ con- 
sider the wr»rst S'Tt of covering, as it is very ajit to split, its 
texture is se epen th.it it adinils the dust, ;!nd ii only lasts ene 
seasMU. Low-pricf=d iriuslii\ dyed yeliow with turiiiene arid 
milk, is mueh better, and may be u<>i <] f »r the same purpos<* U>t 
two or three summers. I'issue paper is still more impervious 
to dust, and makes a nice and verv clu^ap covering. We have 
sren <rrefn tissue paper cut out into large jagged leaves, laid 
closely over each other, so as to cover completely tlie gilt 
iVatnes of mirrors and pictures, and looking like a thick masM 
of t'oliage all round. The covering on frames must be secured 
closely with sm;dl pins: those f)ver lamps, chamieliers, <S."('., 
should be tied on with cheap ribbon ot" the same cobmr. Of 
eoiirsr. the tliini's musi ail be wedl dusted Ind'ore the (-(jNt-rs 



1 



I 



are put rtfi. 



:■' lar tiu-s are n'^t p-.irlieui.ir! v numerous, [t i 1m r-t to 



leave the ornamental furniture without covering during the 
summer; as, with all the can^ you can take, dust will get under 
the covers, damp 'will penetrate, and pins ivill scratch the gild- 
in«r; so that, on the whole, what is gained l)y excluding the 
flies is lost by the general dinginess which they will contract 
from dust and dampness lodging all summer beneath tlie 

covers. 

If the rooms are occupied as usual during the summer, it is 
well to have handsome chintz covers for the damask or cloth 
furniture. But if the family remove into the country, and the 
best apartments in the town-house art^ little used during their 
absence, the covers may be of stout brown linen. Before they 
are fastened on, if the sofas, cushions, &c., are of cloth, or of 
worsted damask, let some crumbled camphor be introduced 
between ; otherwise the moths may attack them under the 
covers. They should also be occasionally examined during 
the summer, and replenished with fresh camphor. 

To conceal tlie empty grate, it is frequently covered with a 
summer-blower of liandsomely ornamented iron. 

'I'here are various pretty ways oi deeuraliei: and screening 
the (Trale with tissiie-paper of dilTennt colours, in«reniously cut, 
and made to fall like curtains over the wdiole front. The paper 
is fast(Mied to a round stick, (for instance, a pitn-e of a brush- 
liandle, cut, exactly to fit,) -and laid along the slit or aperture at 
,hc back iA' the chimney. The paper for these curtains may 
1,0 of two colours, (bUu^ and y(dlow, or pink and grec^n.) and 
the lon^T sheets must he folded and cut fair double, and then 
opened out. Sometimes a quantity of double cut-paper fringe 
(generally green) is made, and wreath(Ml closely round tin. bars of 
ihe crate, so as to leav<- nr^e of tb.-ir iron viMble ; the interior of 
thr .rraie bcinii Ailed With b-ng narrow ^trlps or shavings of 
p-ap,>r of another colour. These cut papers, if carefully taken 



346 



Tin; IIOT'SK BOOK. 



down and put away wlieii thr season is over, will last two 
summers. 

VVhrre wood is burnt, many persons in summrr fill up tlio 
fire-place with a close cliimney-board. 'i'his makes the ro(Mii 
Un, warm, as is also th(> case with a suiiiimT-hhnvi r. In a 
chamber, i)articularly, the fire-place should on no account be 
stopp.(d uj) in summer. Amonjr the least objectionable chim- 
ney-boanU are those of Ktrono-, black, (ruuze canvas, pasted at 
the vd<n> on an .)p( n wooden frame, and ornamented with a 
centre-pie.-(> and narrow boni.T of cob)ured worsu-d-work, or 
witli a lar<r,.vaseof !l')wers, cut eut from wa'l-pajMr, and pa.-.ted 
on tlie Lrauze. Tins iruuze (which is ma(h' for simihir purj»os.s) 
IS of very open texture, and aduiils a litth> air from the chiam.'y. 
Still, f)r an open hre-phice in sunmser, ther(> is noti.mn; [;etter 
than;! lan;e h.mdsouie jar to staml ou the iie;irth, \\(1! fiih.i 
with fr.'sh llourrs, redieved against a backj^rround of long -^md 
s]»rea(lin<r eedar or pine twiTs. 

We iiave seen eveninrr chinmey-boards which w< re veiv 
J"^i'itiful tr.m.par. nt pamtm^s, streKdied m, a frame made 
c\;cMiv to lit ,1,,. jire-pia.-.-. aud iMummaird by a lamp or lamps 
])hu-cd b( hmd them on ilw hearth ; the licrht, if m r* ssary, b^ in- 
Hevated to tlie pr.^por heudit by srttinir 11, ou a lltth' b, Ilrh. 
A fine nij^rht-view of a ^ireat eruption of V.^suvms, and ai^ah- r 
cf Aljdne scenery by moonlmht, ma(h' very eb>(raut traii.j-ar. n- 
cics tor two ciiimiieyd)oar(f>. 

There ar( chiumey-boar.fs of radiated silk, set in a midio-anv 
or rose-wood frame, with a (rilt, ornament m the centre. 

For the admission of air intr, the n-om. there is no chimnrv 
board superior to thus,, m tiu form (d" Vemtian shutters, ,.|), u« 
innr ij^ tlie mi(bilc. 



PAfKlNC, ETC. 



a 17 



TO PA<Tv (ILASS AND CHIN A.— Have ready a stout 
woo(b>n box, planed very smooth inside ; and procure arpiantity 
of cb an straw or hay, which had best be wetted with a little 
water, so as to make it somewhat damp : this will prevent it 
from slippinn about. Put a. layer of the stniw or hay on th(^ 
bottem of the box, and then ])!ace on it sonn^ of the larm-st and 
heaviest articles of the n;lass or china ; fillinjr in between them 
with a sufficiency (d" str.iw. Th<ai i)ut '.mother layer of strav. , 
and souK^ more of the arli(des to be p;udved ; and proc(M'<l in 
this maimer till the box is f^ill ; placing the lin;htest and sma'ib :>t 
tliiteis uppermost. Ftuisbi with a layer of straw at the top, and 
\\u\\ nail on the lid of tbr- l)o\ ; and in markimr the address 
add the words, -d'bis sid(^ u[).'' If you have im reirular mark- 
inrr pot and brush, you may put on the biters with a larne 
cam. :* ; b-.or eer>e>|, -liopied in irood iid;. The saiety n| valua- 
ble arti«d<'S of rrlass and ehina will be nuudi secured by wrap- 
pincr them.ea(di s.purately, in s- ft paper, before you pack them 
Av ith tli(> straw. 

Still, It IS uinerally best to employ an e\j>erii ;)C( d pa^dvi r 
f-r t]n> purp-^'sr ; as the expense of doinii^" \\ iil bo be; tiillie'j; 
i)i comparison \v ith the ri^k oj' havue^ the ihiiej,s brok. n. Ai>o, 
it person accustomed to packin-j" can put more artudos m the 
same spvace than rmc who Iras had but little practice. 



TO FOLD A DRESS [•{)[( I\\('K1.\(;.— Spr( ad tlie 
dress, ri-jht side f»ut. on abed ; and.taldnrr it by the hem, make 
the bottom exactly even all reund. N(-\t, double the >kirt 
leiurthways in hadf. and then fold it lenrrthwavs in i'.'ur, ami 
turn the iMiirtii siile ..ver towards th'> back. Aft< r thi>. turn 
Uj) crossv.-av^ about on. -third ^A' the f )hb d lo\ver part ot the 
skirt; tiien (>!vc ttir renramder of tlie skirt a lold ba<dx\\ards, 
trriiimatiiur at tb-- oatiu'r'^ at the wa.ist. Next, turn the body 



\ 



348 



THE HOrSE BOOK. 



P At' KING, KTr. 



340 



1 I 

! I 



! ) 



backwards, with the front uppermost, and the back rfstino- un 
the Mdiid skirt l)eneath. Lastly, spread out the sleeves ; <Tive 
each of them a fohl forward at the shouKlers, and a luhl back- 
ward at th.-, elbows, and lay them across (>ach other evenly on 
the fore-body. 

Fold the pelerine riirht-side out. First, double it in half, 
be(rinnin(r down the middh^ of the hack. Next, <Tive tlu^ dou- 
uled pelerine a fold backwards, tlien a fold forwards, and then 
another iold so as to leavt^ the corners uj^permost. 

A belt-ribbon, for packintr, should be rolh'd on a block, and 
fastened with two little pins. 

A lady's travelling- dress should be made to fasten at the 
side or in front, peliss(-fashion ; that, durino; her journt^y, she 
may be ablr t(_) dress herself without assistance. 

It may be well to have a camphor-bap; sewed to (^uch ot her 
ni<rht-<T(Avns, that r.lu> mav be less liabl(> to attacks from inseTts 
when slcepinir in such i»eds as are frecjuently met wit[i in 
travel! ill"". 



TO F()i;i) A COAT FOR l\\(^KIN(;.— Fay iIk .•..,!! ai 
its lull li'UL^ili upon a table, with tlu> eoUar towards tlie btV 
hand ; i)i!ll out the collar >o as to make it lie (juite straiirht ; 
turn u}) the ecrat towards tlu- collar, lettinir the crease be just 
at the (>1bow ; let the lappel or breast on one side be turned 
smoothly hack on the arm and sleeves, 'i'urn the skirt over 
the lappel, so that the end of the skirt will reach to the collar, 
and tlie crease or foldinu: will be just where the skirts part at 
the termination of the waisl. When yoi! have dono on one 
sido, do the sane ,.n the ulher. Turn the collar towards iho 
ri<rhi-hand, and f )l(l one s1^irt over the otlier, ..bscrvinu \n lot 
the told b<^ !U the middle of the C(d!ar. 

Vou should have a van! and a half of broV.n le,_-]laud, liemmed. 









■ 



marked, aiul kept for the j)urpose oi' u-rapj)inrT a coat, waistcoat, 
and pantaloons in, when packed for travellin<r. 

Hoots, when wra})j)ed in paper for packintr up, frequently 
burst throuirh it and soil the clean linen. It is best to have for 
them baos of tickintr or brown linen, made to tU them when 
they are rolled up from tlie top about halfway down the lea-. 

If you do not take a dressintr-case, a \mg to hold a comb and 
brush is also very useful, either for a lady or frentleman. 



TO FOFI) A SHIR'l\~-lFivinfr spread the shirt on a table 
or on a bed, fold over the t\V(j sides ienorfhways, so as to lie 
one over the other u])on the bosom. Turn the sleeves back 
halfway iVoin tlie shouhhTS, (doul)linfr over the sleeve-jrussets 
in half,) so as tr) lie, straioht down on the fohhui body. Then 
take the whole and irive it a cross-fold upward, so that the 
lowf^r half of the shirt that is turned over, covers the uj)per part 
c»f the sh>ev(^s and tlie bosom. 

r'alse collars are fcd<!ed in half only. False ])osom pieces, 
first in half from the back, and then another fold is given, so 
as to leave the full part upwards. 

We advise all Gentlemen that wear false collars to wear I'alsn 
wristbands also. 



TO PAFK A [.AH(;F TRFXK.— Have all the thin/s 
laid out ready, the lio-ht tliiiHjfs divided from the heavy riius ; 
and keep at hand a (piire of soft wrappintr pa]>er. Spread a 
''clean thick towel f)Vt'r the bottom of the trunk, and place on it 
the hard flat tbin2"s, such as portfolios, music-books, a writinij;;- 
desk, boxes, books f)r reridimj-, ^'c. ; takin2" care to fit them 
well to(_re!her, sous to be even at the e'p: aud lillinnr up the 
crevices with small articles that will nut he iiipired by cenn- 
]»ressmrht, each ot them, hov.t ver, wrapped in jia|»er, to prevf^nt 



350 



T UK HOUSE BOO K. 



. P AC K 1 N tM K T C. 



351 



their scraping or <lefarins the other things. Never use nevvB- 
,.,,er for ,aclun<r, as th,. pr.ntin, tnk .-iU .rot fail to rub olf 
and soil whatever .t touches. You may stick in a pair o. shoes 
here an.l there, each pair laid toseth.n- as iUa as p..ss.bh., and 
tied round with tlutr own strings. Sou.e persons have shoe- 
ha.rs ,nad,. of ilannel or ch,th, and strtched into compartnuu.ts, 
each division containing a pair of sl,oe,s. Over the layer ol 
hard Hat tlan.rs ir, tlu, botto.n of the trunk, spread a towel ; 
,,„, „„ this h,v your lianr,els. l.n, ,., &c., hUin, u,, the uUersUces 
with stnck.nos and ^^lov<s. Then cover then, with ar,other towel, 
..nd put ,n vour dresses, the muslin ones uppern-.ost ; (lllinj? m the 
cornerswithpockethandkercluefs.Onthelopofyourdresseslay 

vour p.derines, collars, and caps, (if you have no other way ol 
carryin.,r then,,) &e., f,nishing with a thin towel over the wh<.le. 
No trunk should be packed so full as to st,ain the l„n-es. It 
your trunk has a false top, you can liU that with any articles 
that ,r,ay be rolled up t.irbtly. Shoes should on no account be 
packed withont covers, as the colour (particularly. ,1 black) 
„,11 rub nil", and d,.loM,re any white thin.rs that may be near 
„„,,„ Avoid putmur any eatable articles m a trunk or b„x 
that contains things which cannot be washed, as they n,ay he 
n.„eh injured by ffrease or stains. On no consideration, carry ink, 
,,ven though locked up m a writing desk. You can always at 
the place to wh.ch you are going, buy yourself six cents worth 
of ink in a s,naU s,|uare bottle, which will also serve lor an 
inkstand. It is well, however, to take with you a few slncts 
of good writing paper folded in the form of letters, ,.a,-l, with 
. wafer stuck on one edge, to be ready, m case you have occa- 
sion to wrile b,.for,. yo,i reach your journey's end, .,r immedi- 
ately after. It is well to have red tapes nailed across the inside 
of the lid of your trunk, for the purpose of slipping letters and 
papers between then,. 






There are travelling trunks with a sort of movable tray fitt- 
ing in near the top. This tray can be lifted in and out, an.l is 
for the purpose of containing pelerines, collars, scarfs, ribbons, 
la.-ps, &e. Sou,e very large trunks have a partition at one end, 
to h(dd a bonnet or other millinery. 

It is best, however, to have a proper bonnel-box, .dther of 
painted wood or of leather. To keep the bonnet steady, sew 
to it in convenient ,,laces under the trimming, l.ieces of tape, 
the other ends of which should be secured with tack-nails to 
the floor and sides of the box. In the corners, you may lay a 
fow caps, &c., as lightly as possible. 

Leather trunks generally have brass |,lates on which .s 
en.rraved the name of the owner. It is now very customary 
to have the name painted on both ends of the tru.,k, and also 
on the bonnet boxes, liesides which, .1 you are travelling 
^vith several artich« of baggage, it is well to have them all 
designated by a piece of red tape or something of the sort tied 
round the handles of each. A lady, befue setting out on a 
jonrnev. should be provided with a card or paper, on wlarh 
sl,o has written a list and descnpt,o„ of her ,r,.,d., box, ca, ,,et- 
ba.r. ^c. Previous to the hour for starting, she sbonl.l give 
Ihi^ list to the gentleman under whose escort she is to travel, 
„„a ,t will save him much trouble in finding out and taking 

care of her baggage. 

The best pai-er for wrapping light articles that are to be 
packcl in trunks, is the thin, soft sheets of light blae. bull, 
gray, and other colours, that are retailed at six cents per H"'re. 
It is well to koep a supply of U always in the bouse. 

l.-or heavier articles, (books, &c.,) tie ua,d<een paper will be 

,o,„,d p,-eferable to any other, as i, ,s eo,!, smooll, and strong. 

1„ ,„„„ng „p a paper parcel to go any diManc-e over twenty 

miles, ,1 IS betler to secure il only with sealing-wax, (putting 



352 



THE HOUSE IJOUK. 



PACKING, ETC. 



353 



always a wafer uruler the seal,) than to tie it round with twine, 
as in the course of trans[)ortation, the twine is very apt to rub 
and cut through the j)a})er. 

When puttinjr up a newspaper or any other printed sheet to 
go hy mail, always leave the cover open at one end. 



CARPET BAGS.— The best carpet-baprs are those that are 
made with lari^e g-orcs at the sides, as they hold much more 
tlian when of two straiirht pieces only. It is well to have the 
owner's name engraved on the lock. Articles of dress that 
cajuiol be compressed into a small compass, should not be put 
into a lady's carpet bag, which should hold the llannel, linen, 
stockings, night-clothes, shawl, shoes, &c., that she may be 
likely to want during her journey ; those that she will require 
the fust night lo be placed at the top, where also she 
should have a bag containing her comb, hair-brush, 6ic. For 
want of a bag, these things may be pinned up tightly in a towel ; 
and she may do the same with her shoes if she has no slioe-bag. 



A TUAVELLiNCi RETiCl LE.~A reticule tor travelling, 
may be so made, as to contain many useful articles, (iet (for 
instance) three (juarters of a yard of the thickest and best dark 
c(jloured India silk, such as is called senshaw. Divide it mio 
two pieces, about a (juarter and a half quarter in ea<-h, but tbe 
out<'r piec(! a little de(q)cr than the inn<>r. Then lay tliem to- 
gether so as to be double, and divide them into four compart- 
ments, by making thre*; downward rows of stitching or running: 
when you have sew( d up tbe siih' edges of tbe bag, you will 
bavf^ f''ur divisions. Leave suthcient at tbe to() of the inner 
lining for a hem ; and the r.utside must rise a littlt.! beyond the 
msid.' and be hemmod down so as to form a case, to bo drawn 
witli nbltons, or l)road silk braid. (J;ither the bottom of the 



\ 



batr, and draw it up as close as possible, so a? to finish it with 
a tassel, or a bow of ribbon at the gathering place. This bag 
will be found very useful in travelling; as in the dillerent 
divisions, you may carry a comb, hair-brush, tooth-brush, 
smelling-bottle, a cake of soap, purse, needle-book, keys, &c., 
so arranged, as not to interfere with each other inconveniently; 
leaving the space in the middle of the bag for your liandker- 
chief, which you can then take out without any danger of its 
bringing other things along with it. These large reticules will 
be found less troublesome to carry, and better in every respect, 
than a travelling hand-basket. 



A BONNET-COVER.— Wlu^n travelling in dry weather 
on a road that is likely to be dusty, you may effoctually pro- 
toct your bonnet from injury, by taking wltii you a cover for 
it. To nrake this cover, grt a yard of white glazrd cambric 
muslin, and cut it into tbe form of a large straight h(/od ; 
gathering it close at the back of tbe hra<l upon a small cirr-.ilar 
yh.co about the size <■( a halt-dollar. Slope it away at the 
M.Irs of tho neck, and put a rase with a drawing-striuLr of hue 
tape along tbe edge of tho tnmt : the string to te- ai tli.- side. 

If you commence your journey by water, you can mW up this 
bonnet-cover, and keep it in your reticule whilo in the steam- 
boat; puttmg It over your bonnet, and drawing it roun<l your 
face, |ust before you gei into the vehicle in which yon arr' to 
ride. Vou will find when you take it olT, that it has eiTectuaUy 
screened your bonnet and its ribh(ms frr^m the dust and sun. 
It must, of course, be made very larcre -.md loose, that it may 
not flatten or discompose the trimming. 

We have seen bonnet-cov<^rs of gre* n silk; b'it, it 't chances 
to get wet, the green dye will run down and stain the hoimet. 
The same thing may liappen. if the e- ver is of oloure.l muslm. 






354 



THE HOUSE I5 0K. 



White is imdoubtcdly the best for this purpose; and when 
soiled, it can be easily washed. 

After being out in the damp, do not immediately put away 
your bonnet; but wipe the front and crown with a clean hand- 
kerchief, and put some waddincr or tissue paper into the bows, 
to keep them from losing their shape: taking it out, however, 
as soon as the ribbon is perfectly dry. Also, never put away 
a shawl or cloak whih> it is in the least damp. Do not always 
fold a shawl in the same creases, lest it wear out along the 
edges of the folds. When you take off a veil, stretch it evenly 
on the bed, and let it remain there an hour or two, in case there 
should be any dampness about it. 

Whenever the atmosphere is cloudy or humid, it is well to 
take the feathers out of your bonnet before you go out, lest they 
lose their curl, or their whiteness. 



PACKING HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES.— in packing for 
the removal of a family to a distant plare, let all the boxes and 
trunks be nuinh.rrd in a Look prnvidrd for t'ne j-urposr; let 
some one who overlooks the whole of the packing, set down 
every articlo, denoting the exact box or trunk in which it is 
placed, and the order in which the things are put in, beginning 
first with those at tin; bottom. By this means, after arriving 
at the place of destination, you will know, by consulting your 
book, wher(> to find whatever you want; and which oi" the 
boxes it will be best to opm first. Also, in a long sea-voyage, 
if there is occasion to hav«^ a trunk brought from the hold to 
get out of it any particular article, your book will toll exactly 
,n which of y.air trunks that article is. For want of such an 
inventory, we have sern, m crossing the Atlantic, three or four 
trunks brought up hehm^ing to one family, opened, and 
searcVied, before the right (uic coubl be found. 



355 



MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES. 



KEEPING A COW.— In buying a cow, you will fmd it 
cheapest m the end, to get a very excellent one, even at a high 
price. But a good American cow (having the advantage of 
being all her life accustomed to our climate) will, with proper 
<.ure,^)e found (piite as profitable to a family that keeps but one, 
as mi luiported c-ow purchascnl at double or treble the cost. A 
good native cow, if well fed and w.^ lodged, will in the best 
season, give from ten to twelve cpiarts of milk a day, and many 
^rive more than twelve. If, with all the care you can take of 
her, she gives less than ten (piarts, she is 7wt a good cow, and 
It will b(.^ best to sell her and try another. 

Cows sull lowest in the autumn and highest in the spring. 
Always buy a cow that has a calf with her, as the calf will 
reconcile her to lu^r new residence. Keej) up th.^ calf in a place 
by i!.s<'lf, letting it out occasionally in fine w(>athor, to play 
about a while in a safe enclosure. Let the cow be turned m to 
the calf three times a day ; early in the morning, at noon, and 
towards evening, just before milking time. If the days are 
very short, instead of putting the cow with the calf in day-time, 
leave her with it all night. The calf will not i)e tit for killing 
in less than five weeks; and during that time, to make it fat 
and lu-altby, it should be allowed to got a great plenty of the 
cow's milk, (iive it oecasiunally a little salt. Forbid the 
ehihlrcn of the lamily to approach tlie cult when m prosence 
et its moth-T; as the f^ar that they may hurt it, will render 



K E E P I N G A C O W . 



357 



356 



THE H tJ 9 E ROOK. 



lier very ferocious. When it is to be taken finally away, let it 
be removed when the cow is out of sijrht and liearin^r ; other- 
wise slie will be too much distressed. Wliile crrieving for the 
loss of her calf, siu; will trive less milk than usual. 

A cow's stable should be tij^rht and weather-proof, with two 
doors, and one or more windows. The floor should have a very 
little sloj)e down towards the front door. The stable should 
be furnished with a manger and a drinkincr trouixh, and have a 
loft above to contain the hay. A large jar of salt shouhl be 
kept always in the stable-hjft ; and fix a salt-box in a place 
convenient to the nianger, and within the cow's reach. Into 
this box put a handful every day ; as cows are extremely fond 
of salt, and without it they will not thrive. Some ])ersons, 
insU^ad of this, oive the cow iralf a handful of salt every time 
she is niilk(Hi. This is a good plan, as it pl(^as(^s her, and 
eaus<>s her to Irt down her milk; and is an additional induce- 
ment for b»T to come regularly home in the eviniini::. 

'i'he slaldr d(><.r should he left open all day, (exct^pt in s«"V<'re 
or stormy w(>atlior.) th;it tiie mw uuty <jo \i) -.ind mit as siu- 
pleas(^s ; and care should hv taken always to keep Iresh water 
in the stable. At nitrlit. soon ;ift.(^r milkinix, put hor into the 
stable, and kec)) her shut up till next morninr:. \t least two 
l)uck(ts-full of t'rrsh water sluMild i)e left in her driukinir-trouirh 
everv niixht. In stormy and severe weathcT, keep her all day 
in the stabh\ and allow her additional food. 

In summer, iiwv her at milkintr-time a large basket-full of 
fiesh-ciit grass, em})tving it down before her. This will be the 
best food sl-e can have; hut for a chan'je, her morninnr repast 
may b<^ of the refuse of the garden, erdlerted for the purpose; 
such as heet-tops, carrr.t-tops, corn-liusks, and a \V\\ .d the 
outside leaves of cai»bag(^s ; ])Ul if cahhaL(p<; arr ijiven in any 
quantity, thev will spoil the taste of tie mill:. So also will 



every sort of turnips, (^ows are extremely fond of pumpkins, 
and they are very good for them : so are apples, potatoes, beets, 
carrots, and parsneps, all of them cut up small ; otherwise the 
cow may chok(^ in swallowing them. Cows will eat no food 
that has any thing animal about it, and nothing that is dirty or 
decayed. If water is brought to them in a greasy pail, they 
will on no account touch it. It is not well to give them parings, 
&c.,from the kitchen; and what is called slop is unwhrdesome 
for them, besides making their milk taste disagreeably. 

In summer, after being milked in the morning, let your cow 
go all day in a good rich pasture; but do not allow her to keep 
about the road, as the little she can pick up there will do 
her no jjood ; not to mention th(^ danger of accidents, and the 
probability of her straying away. 

If she is accustomed to being always fed at milking-time, 
she will come home from her pasture-ground every afternoon 
c>i' her own accord, which is a saving of much trouble. Give 
her another bask«t-full of cut grass, or some other v/holesome 
vegetahle t^ood, whih' she is getting milked in th.e evemng. 

T\\(. tons of hay (not less) are about sufTieiont i" r a cow 
throunh the winter, unless it is a very long on<' : with h.alf a 
bushel oi hran each day. 

In winter. a cow should be punctually fed thre(^ times a day. 

F/arly in the morning uive, her ( ight quarts of wheat bran or 

shorts, mixed witli sullicient water to make it rather liquid; 

an.!, besides her allowance of bran, h>t her have as mueh hay 

as she will eat. At noon give her hay only, but enough for 

her to oat till she is satisiied. In the evening, n-ive her a^'iin 

eioht (prarts (.f hran mix<Ml with water, and as much liay as she 

wanl^. If she is a ._r,Hul cow, you w-il he amply remunerated 

for iVo.linir her tiius liherally with wholesome f .od, hy the, 

quantity ami richness (d^ the milk sliewil! yn Id in consiMpienre 






358 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



THE DAIRY, ETC. 



359 









Unless a cow is weXUed, well-sheltered, and kept f\it and 
healthy, her milk will be poor and in small (piantity, and she 
will bo dry nearly half the year, instead of only about thr.^e 
weeks. Besides which, cows that are kept in poor e.Hulition 
are liable to diseases, and beeome infested with vernun. It is 
a great error not to feed the cow as well as usual durin^r the 
time she is dry. Her food should then, as always, be good and 
plentiful ; and you will be amply repaid by the quantity of 
milk she will give afterwards. 

The milk-pans should be broad and shallow. If they are 
not kept very clean by scalding and washing, the milk will 
tostx3 disagreeably, or turn sour in them. During the day, tlie 
empty pans should be exposed to the sun and air ; but about 
an hour before milking-time, they should be filled with cold 
water, to cool and refresh them. The puils or buckets re<iuire 
clean scouring every day. If the outsiile is painted, (a g()od 
practice,) it will be only necessary to scald and wash the lusido 

dally. 

Tue pirsnn that milks should be pmvidrd with a small 
wooden stnoi to sit on; and ^Mth thick water-proof sb.uos, as a 
protection against th.> damp ground at (>arly morning or in wot 
weather. Caro must be taken always to milk the cow tho- 
roughly dry ; otherwise the ciuantity of hor milk will dcr^-ase, 
an.rslie will at last ceaso to give any. After she has h.en 
nearly milked, quit her lor a little whilo; durmg which time 
you may carry in and strain th(> milk. 1'hen go back to her 
with another and smaller vessol, and give hvr a fmal milking, 
or stripping, as it i. called. These strippmgs are nearly as 
rich as cream; and if you make butter, they may l>e put into 

the crram-i'roek. 

Wo have known a cow, fed, sheltercnl, and manaured oxaetly 
in the al)ove manner, to produce milk enough to make seven 



pounds a week of the best possible butter, yellow, rich, and 

sweet. 

If you have no milk-house, get a refrigerator or large ice-box, 
exclusive/y for the milk, cream, and butter; putting nothing else 
into it. Milk is liable to imbibe a bad taste, and to sour easily, 
if rxposed to the vicinity of other articles of food; tlu>refore 
(unless shut up m a refrigerator) it ought never to be kept in 
a cellar. We have known milk to acquire an intolerable taste 
from being kept in a cellar in which there was a l)arrel of salt 
fish ; and the butter made from th.is milk was uneatable. 

(^,ws should iKver be allowed access to any field in which 
there is garlic; as the strong taste and smell that it communi- 
cates to their milk and butt.T,and oven to the flesh of their 
calves, can by no process be remo.ved. 



THE DAlItV.— A dairy or milk-house should be divided 
into two apartments. The one that contains the milk and 
" cream ha.l host be built over a runningr hrooklet, s., that in 
..ummer the ].ans may sit in the cold wat.T upon broad fiat 
stonos. placed thoro f-r tho purpose. The romamder slu.uld 
!„' neatly pav.d with brick or stone, laid xxith a slight doseent ; 
an<l the iloor ought to be washed every <lay m summer, and 
twice a week in wint(T. 

The buildinti should have ver}^ thick walls, so as to exclud.^ 
the heat in the summ(>r and the cold in the wint.'r. The win- 
dows (they shouhi never frcmt the south, south-east, r.r south- 
west) ought to be secured with wire netting, having also glazed 
sashes to open with hinges. The apartment that contains the 
nnlk, creanu and butter, should be us.mI for no (.tbor purpose, 
,„d nothiua .Lso should he kept there. In the additional room 
lot all the other articles be placed that are nocessary f .r dairy 
business, neatlv rang^nl on slndves. Here also keep you>. 



300 



THE DAIRY. 



361 



T II E nous E B O O K. 



cheese, rt nnet, «^c. Let every utensil be kept perfeeily 
clean; ollierwise the, milk will turn sour, and the butter will 
have a bad taste. The best milk-pans are cf brown earthen 
ware; those ot" metal being injurious to the milk. Twice a 
week in summer, and onee a week in winter, it is well to halt" 
fill them all with wood-ashes, and then pour on boiling water 
till it reaches the brim. Let them stand in this for several 
hours ; then empty them, and wash ihvm clean with hot v/atcr, 
rinsintJ- tliem with cold, and wiping tbem dry. besides your 
pails and milk-pans, you will want tall earthen crocks lor the 
cK-.UH -.ukI bultcr-niilk ; a skimming-dish; a cream-stick; a 
strainer, which is a tm bvisin witli a bottom ol' fme canvas or 
bditiiur-cloth ; a churn; a short-handled butter-scoop or ladle, 
•.iiul a butt.r-priut. It is well also to have a table with a marble 
top, a ])air (f sc'.ilcs tor wrighing the butter, and a set (a linen 
cloths, in which to wrap each pound separately. 

In sununer the cream should not be kept more than two or 
thrie days; and in winter the churning ought to be done three 
times iii a, !■ rl^i^•!,t ; as, if the' eream is ke{)t too long, l!ie !Hitt.er 
will cnUn'ni)/ bo bad. The cream-crock ^hould l>e stirrr-d 
several times a day with the stick. Where there are two or 
three cows, it is host to liave a barrel-churn, which is turned 
by a handlo. lfth( re is but ont^ cow, a common or daH!i-<diurn 
will do very well. We have heard of chums of a new con- 
struction, thai will cause the butter to come in twenty minutes. 
They are made at v\ ( stchester, in Pennsylvania. 

The fdlowing is an Knglish receipt for making butter; and 
we tliink it may be (h^pendtd on as a good on(\ 'I'he art ot 
butter-making is nowhere better understood than in Ihigland. 

In sununer tlu' churn should be hlhd with cold spring \v;iter, 
and in winter scalded with hot water, ])r(q)arator}- to cliurning; 
then pour the cre.uu in through a strainer. In warm weather, 



the churning should be performed in a cool place. In cold 
weather, let the churning be done in a warm place; indeed, it 
is sometimes necessary to bring the churn near the fire, and to 
pour in a little hot water to hasten the butter, which, however, 
will become white by the process. The butter being come, 
pour ofi' the butter-milk into a clean crock, leaving the butter 
in the churn; pour in a pail-full of cold water; wash the butter 
about in it; pour off this water, and put in a fresh pail-full. 
Let the butter stand in the second cold water for ten or fifteen 
minutes. Having scalded a milk-pan, arid stood it for half an 
hour or more in a small tub of cold water, lift the butter out of 
the chum, and put it into this milk-pan. Then pour over it 
plenty of fresh water, and wash th(? butter well about in it. 
Drain the water off as dry as possible, and then proceed to 
work the buttermilk out of the butter. F/ither do this with your 
hands, (which should first be dipped m warm water,) or with 
one of the short-handled flat butter-ladles made for the purpose. 
Work the butter by squeezing and pressing it by degrees from 
one side of the pan to the other. Then rinse it by pouring on 
oohi water, l^.ur that olT; work the butter to the other side 
,,f the pan ; l)our on more cold wat.T to rinse it,; and work the 
butter back again. Uep(>at this till the rmsmg-water ceases to 
look in the least milky; and when the water pours otT quite 
colourless, you may be sure that the butter-milk is all worked 
out. If ther(> is any left in, the butter will have streaks of 
white when cut, and will lose its sweetness, and very soon 
taste disagreeably. Having worked out tb.e milk, and weighed 
th.e lump of butter, tlie next thing is to put in the salt, which 
should first be rolled quite fme with the roUmg-pin. The salt 
nmst be of the best qualit.y. You may allow about a quarter 
,f an ounce of salt to each pound of butter. Lay the lump of 
butter on the marble table, if you have one, (or else m a larjre 

31 



^1 



liif 

w 



111 



302 



T HK ii',)t'si: no OK, 



shallow (lisb,) and press it out Uiin ana fiat. Tlicn sprinkle it 
with a littk^ salt; fold up tbo butter, press if flat again, strew 
over it some more salt, fold it up and press it out a^ain, and 
proceed in this manner till all tbe salt is in ; working and 
pressing the butter well, tbat tbe salt may be thorougbly incor- 
porated with it, and all tbe remaininnr moisture pressed out; 
pouring off wbatever liquid may remain in tbe pan. Take oil 
a piece of tbe butt(T at a time, put it on a wooden })late, (wbich 
should be previously scalded and then di}>ped in cold water,) 
and beat and work it witb the butter-ladle till all tlu> water is 
beaten out. Wben tb(^ water is all out, divide it equally into 
pounds, or half pounds, or pats, (snioothin-r it nicely,) and tben 
print it. If you bave no print, you may make it up into long 
thick rolls, from wbicb, wben you want tbe butter f .r use, you 
cut off round slices. Finisb by layincr it, on the marhlo tatile, 
or placinir it in pans and setting it in tbe water of tlie luilk- 
hoiise, or in some otber cool j)lace, covering it witii linen cloths, 
first scalded -and tben dii.ped in cold water. Do not, however, 
idaee it ne;ir an opm w indow, ;is too hiiicb air will injure it. 
In a f(,'W hours it will Ix come e^uite firm. 

When yon have; done the !)utter, wasli up at once, in hot 
water, all tiie things that have Ijeen used in making it. 



TO PREPARK A RFA'NKT.— The rennet or runnet is 
tbe stomach of a ealf. Its firm is that of a hag, and it has the 
property of converting milk into a curd; being used \>'Y that 
purpose after nnder<„roinir th(> fallowing prejraration. Having 
carefully em]»tie<l it of all its r^nt. nts, rinse it well with cold 
water; hut if washed haig or much, it will lose iu strength, 
and Its quality of turninix milk will he propnrtienately unpaired. 
After the rinsinLr, lay it in a shallow }>an,'and sprinkle it well 
on both sidus with tine salt. Whtn v<hi have thoroughly salted 



K L hi' i .N O Vol L'i \i V. 



363 



it, cover the pan, and let the r. nnct lie in the salt four or hve 
days. Then take it out, and slip into it a long smooth rod or 
stick, which must be bent into tl;e i'onn of a loop or bow, and 
the two ends tied togetluT witb twine. The rennet must be 
well stretched upon the stick. Afterwards hang it up in a dry 
room ; and wben it is thoroughly dried, keep it in a drawer or 

closet. 

A jdeci' of rennet about three inches square (or more, if it is 
not a new one) will be sulhcient to turn a (pmrt of milk, which 
must first be made warm. The- pi( >ce of rennet should be well 
washed in eold water, and tlun wiped to get all the salt out, 
and then steeped for some hours in a cup with just enough of 
luke-warm waU'r to cover it. This water should tben be stirred 
into the warmed milk, covering U and Si-tting it not far from 
the fire. When the milk has become a firm curd, and the whey 
looks greenish, remove it to a cold place, as it should be eaten 

quite cold. 

Renm'ts ready prepan d, can b.^ bought f -r a trifle, at all sea- 
sons, m l^hiladelphia market. They are much used lor curds 
aiiil \\h( V. 

TO KI:I-:P I^OWLS.— No f)\vls can p. ssihiy thrive well, 
r h. profitable to the own. rs, unless they are plentifully fed, 
and bave a eeanfortahle place to ro(..t m at night and for a 
shelter m rohl or wet weather. Their room or hen-house may 
l„- a<ijoming to the wo.od-bouse, or sonn' otln r out-hnihlmg. 
It is best to have it faring tbe east or the south, and it must be 
portectly weatln r-tight. It should have a door an.l wm.lows, 
and be verv woll lighted : th* 



(I 



winih'W > may t iilnT i;e latticed 
]n ih" «'Vi niiiir, a.fter the 

that 



with v..M,d,.:r \\i Ited With iron wire. 

fbwis havo gone to roo.t, let tin- .h-r h. l-ulo .! ; seeing 

,t i. opened very early ui the inoinin|:, unh ss m had w( ather. 



I 



364 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



E? 



ri"' 

It! 



Vim, 



\m 



The hen-house should he frequently cleaned out, and occasion- 
ally white-washed ; for if kept dirty, the fowls will be infested 
with vermin. If this should happen, catch every fowl, even to 
the smallest chickens, and rub their skins and feathers well 
with lard or dripping ; then have their house thoroughly cleaned 
and white-washed at once; afterwards fumigating it with burn- 
ing brimstone. Next, throw some sand or fresh earth on the 

floor. 

If fow4s are scantily supplied with water, or if they have 

access only to that which is dirty or puddled, they will contract 

a disorder called the pip, ^^ hich is a thin white scale that 

grows on the tip of the tongue, and prevents their feeding. 

Catch them, pull off the scale with your fore-finger nail, and 

then rub the tongue with salt. When fowls have this or any 

other disease, they look drooping, their eyes appear dull, and 

their combs and gills become pale and flabby. When they are 

sick, feed them with bran that has been mixed to a paste with 

boiling water. 

In wet weather, keep the fowls shut up all day in the hen- 
hou.e; also when it is very cold, taking care that they are 
properly supplied with tbod and water. They should have m 
their house a little manger or feeding-trough, which ought 
never to be empty. If they have plenty of food always by 
them, tliey will eat frequently but only a little at a time, and it 
is best for them to do so. When their food is given to them 
scantily and irregularly, they injure themselves by devouring 

it too fast. 

Feed them chiefly with Indian corn, allowing at least three 
quarts a day in winter, and two quarts in summer, to a dozen 
fowls. Th.^ corn will he still betl( r (or them, if previously 
soaked in water. They should have food given to them regu- 
larly three times a day. It is usual to feed younu chickens nn 



REEFING POULTRY. 



365 



4 



Indian meal n.ixed soft with water. Curds are still better for 
them. When newly hatched, they may have bread soaked 
in milk. By way of variety, you may give your fowls occa- 
sionally, buck-wlieat, barley, rice, and oats; but nothing will 
fatten tliem so well, and keep them so healthy, as corn. 

If always led there, they will stay chieily in their house 
durincr the winter, and will m cor-.sequence be more healthy, 
and in every respect more profuable. They must be well sup- 
plied with plenty of clean water m large shallow pans of tin or 
earthen; and also with brick-dust and gravel to assist their 
digestion, it is well to place in the centre of their large water- 
pan, a small hut heavy one of earthen-ware, turur^l bottom 
upwards, on which the fowls can stand to dnnk without wet- 
tincr their feet : which often in winter makes them sick, or causes 
their toes to fr<>eze so that they lose them. Recollect always 
that dirtv water gives them diseases. But a little clean brick- 
dust thrown occasionally into their drinking pans, is good for 

their digestion. 

Their .u>sls sl.ouia bo n.ovuble, that whenever the hen has 

dor^e .ittinus tl.<y "'^'y '«■ ^^'^ ""•'>' ^""' '=''"^"' "'' ^"^""' 
Ihey ;.re n..i,h,ce,l. I'.-r the ..est, ycni .riuy pluee o,. the Moor 
(not |-,.r from the walls, but not ag-ai.>sl them) old flat baskets ; 
,',r deep boxes s.-t up on the side ; the open or entrance part 
vur«e<!/«,m the lisjla. K.li tben> with clean dry straw or hay. 
I'la.^e near th.: boxes lime for the hens U, form their egg-sheUs. 
Old ,ubbish-lin,e, <.r plaster Iron, old walls, is very proper for 
,|,is p.,rpos,., if well broken np. If yon o.not proc.re this, mix 
r„„e and water to a ...ortar; let it dry, then break it up and put 
it into the hen-house. See that the s.mine; hens have plenty of 
food and water .very day. at the tm.e they come olf the.. ne-t«. 
„ ,l,ey are not supplied at o..oe, .hey w ,11 ^. hack to tl.«.r n.iU 
«,ihout waiting, and sntTer .nueh .1. cous. quenee. 

rn • 






'366 



TI^E HOrSE BOOK. 



iitllM 



m 



¥'¥■ 



m 



Their roosts or perches should be so contrived as not to be 
exactly over each other, and some should be placed low enough 
for the young fowls to reach without difficulty in flying up to 
them. Let none of the nest-boxes be placed under the roosts. 
The hen-house should frequently be cleaned out, white- 
washed, fumigated with sulphur, or by burning pine or cedar 
boughs; and then strewed with sand. 

Indian meal and West India molasses, mixed together, and 
combined till it crumbles, is excellent for fattening chickens, 
and making them grow rapidly. When fed with it three times 
a day, they have been known in two months to become as large 
as full-grown fowls. The great Bucks County fowls, (as they 
are called in Pennsylvania,) if fed in this manner, will grow 
to such a size, that when brought on table, they are often mis- 
taken for young turkeys. 

Wormwood and rue, sowed plentifully every spring about the 
nei^Thbourhood of the hen-house, will tend to keep away vermin ; 
and if strewed about the floor in tlie vicinity of ihcir nests, it will 
keej) off weasels and otlier such animals that cnnie to sock the 
eggs. They may also be kept offby scattering powdered valerian. 
Eleven fine hens, managed in the foregoing manner, well- 
sheltered, kept clean, and plentifully supplied with good food 
and water, have been known to supply two thousand e^gs in 
the course of a year, (laying all winter,) and a lumdred chickons 
have been raised from them, all fat and ready for killing in the 
autumn. The best hens for laying durinnr the winter are 
pullets hatched the preceding spring. 

Bantam fowls are less injurious to a garden llian nny others, 
as the feathers about their feci pr«>vrnt them from scratching 
up the seeds. If your Lnirden fenro h;is tho pa1inn:s sharp- 
pointed at the top, the fowls that are outsidi^ will find it difh- 
':ult tn gpt over; as after flying np to ll;e top, !hey u ill have 



KEEPING POtlLTRV. 



367 



no place to rest their feet on, while preparing to take their 

flight downward. 

Wlien you do not intend the hen to sit, instead of keeping 
one real egg always in the nest, have it furnished with three 
very large ones, shaped out of chalk. 

When a hen hatches in wet weather, the young chickens as 
they come out of the shell, should be brought into the kitchen 
or some other warm room, and kept there till next day or longer, 
in a basket with some cotton or wadding in it; feeding them 
with curds or with soaked bread. After she has hatched, con- 
tinue to feed the hen cxceedin^h/ W(-ll, or she will not have 
warmth enough for her chickens when she collects them under 
her ; besides th.at, during the day, she requires great strength to 
enable her to take care of them, and make for them the unusual 
exertions to winch she is prompted hy nature. The chickens 
of a poor hen die off very fast. 



TURKKVS.— Turkeys are more dilhoult to raise than any 
oth.r l>oultrv; nswhen youncr, tho least oxposur. towel is 
.lostrucivc to them. A turkey-house should bo ...ntnved and 
n.ana^n.1 just like a chicken-house. As turkoys are m much 
esteem for the table, and always bring a good price when raised 
for market, they are well worth the trouble and c>xpense of rear- 
in<r carefully. Those hatched in May or late in April, after the 
weather has become settled, always thrive the best; but till 
they an- as large as an old partridge, and have their backs well 
covered with feathers, they should be kept closely in their house 
everv morning till the dew is quite otf the ,rround ; and in 
damp weather, they should not he allowed to go out at all. 
,f batolM-d m wet weather, keep ;hen, several .h.vs in the house. 
The he.t too,! tor youn^ turk.>ys. .^ nnlk turned w.th rem.Pt 

,ntn a hr:u c^^:^. mad.- tV'-i, for them every d ly : and this is 



i 






['1 

i 



368 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



also excellent for every sort of poultry, wlicri very younn;. If 
i'ed in this manner, and kej)t warm and dry, you may not lose 
one out of twent}^ ; and a lloek of fine full-grov. n lurki^ys is 
valuable wlien the season comes for eatinn- them, 'J'heir food 
may he varied occasionally with soaked bread, or with Indian 
meal mixed with water; ami when a little older, you may give 
them the wet Indian meal entirely. 

When they get their head-feathers, they have become hardy 
enough to prowl ab(nit, for which they like to have ampb;^ s})aee. 
Their food should then be corn or buck-wheat, 'i'hey will fatten 
very fist on Indian meal, mi'vcd with skim-milk. As a change^ 
boiled carrots and boii(\i Russian turnips are very good for 
them. Turkeys are great devourers, and, to become fit, will 
r(Mpilre leeding five times a day. They will thrive best if tiieir 
corn is parboiled. 

it is well to TVAT yiiuiig turkeys und(T the hens oi" \\w com- 
mon ftul; as they do not ramble like the hen-turkeys, and 
teach tilt vouiej; ones to ramljle also. 



(.K!-'.SK. — tiuese cati nidy he kept io advantage whore liiere 
arc ohl fiolds or commons f »r them to irraze m, as orass is an 
important artiidii of tluir food. \( wtll h-cpl^ a goose will !;iy a 
biiudrod eggs in a year, in France, where great <it(enlion is 
paid to the raisinii; of lt^'oso, they do not allow tho goctsr to sit 
in r^flt", hut tht'V ]Mit lior eu'js under common towls, ij,ivinn' htur 
er five (Mrrrs \(, cacli hen. It' the troose is normiltrd to sit, she 
must he [driitifully and regularly led during tho process. 
\\ hen the V'lung ones are hatched, they should he kept in a 
w;ir!ii drv place f »r tour days or more, (according to the wea- 
ther.) and ted w ith lettuce h'a\a-5 I'-iled in milk.cr with Indian 
m''al nused wiili nnllv r,.!her than u it. r. Vliv^ \\\\\ llien 
beji'.n e^ ii,~:'//,e a iiTtle. 



KEEPING POILTRV. 



369 



Though geese eat grass, tln^y will not, however, fatten upon 
it. They should he fed with corn early in the morning. They 
will then walk off to their field by themselves, and come homo 
of tlieir own accord in the evening; when they ought to he fed 
again, before th(^y go to rest. Th(>ir sleeping-place must always 
be under cover; and in their grazing-field a brook or some 
accessible water is indispensable. 

Oeese should not be killed till they are full-grown : what 
are called irrccn geese are flabby and tasUdess. 'I'o fatten geese 
rapidly for killing, put them for a few weeks into a pen, which 
must be kept well littered with clean straw, and have belong- 
ing to it a feeding trough for their corn or oats, and a drinking 
trough kept well supplied with clean water, (ieese will not 
thrive if kept dirty. Vary their food with refuse lettuces and 
cahbages from the garden. 

The latter part of the summer is their moulting season ; and 
if not picked, when their small feathers become loose they will 
drop about the ground and be wasted. If the goose-picking m 
done by a woman, she must have all tlie g( ese caught and 
penned i.p in some convenient place; and then, putting cm a 
laro-e coarr^e. apron, sh.e must take racli goose on her lap, hoid- 
in^T its lei^s fast with one hand, while she picks otT the loose 
feathers with the other, and lays them in a basket heside her. 

An old irr,(,se sluuild be allowed to live as long as possible; 
for, if killed, it will be too hard and tough to be eaten. 



DUCKS.— Though ducks, like ])igs, will eat of garbage, 
and of various disgusting things, yet there is nr) advantage in 
tin ir d( /ng so, but precisely the contrary ; as tlieir flesh becomes 
strong and had in proportion. Torn, oats, huckwh.at, wetted 
Indian meal, lettuces, white cabbajxes. and other refuse of the 
'ranlen, are excellent food for them. Parsley, sowed about the 



i 









370 



T li L HOUSE li O U Iv. 



edges of the ponds or .slreams ihdi they iVe(|ueiit, j^reatly 
improves their llesh. 80 does wiki celery, which imparts a 
similar llavour to that of tlie curivas-back, the most delicious 
ot ducks. A plac(i for them to retire to at nig-ht sliould be par- 
titioned oil" or erected not far from the water ; and here they 
should be fed morninjr and evening. This will always brincr 
them liome from their rambles. 

If a duck is w«dl lodged and fed, she will lay ten dozen of 
eggs in tin; course of a year; and duck-eggs an; extremely rich, 
and excellent for all purj)oses. I?, is usual to set duck-eggs 
under a common hen for hatching. The ducklings, when quite 
young, should be fed on curds or Indian meal mixed with milk, 
and should not be let out early in tiie mornin<r to eat sliKrs, 
worms, cater])illars, &c. ; for those things, if eaten profusely, 
will kill them. They should, if possible, be prevented from 
going into water and swimming till they are more than a month 
old. When you are fatUming them for killing, keep them from 
eating any garbage or animal food whatever. 



TO KK1:P HKI^S. — In Am.Tici the connin-n brc-hivrs ;u"e 
made ofwood. in tho f-rm (/fa tall, iour-sidrd, i)ultuH]l. ss box, 
with a Hat cover or roof projecting several inches all roun<i,and 
an opt'ii door or entrance-hole near tlie bottom. Tiie hives must 
be made very tight, and quite impervious to rain. 'I'hey are s.t 
in a row on broad high benches ; and to prc^vent rats, mice, cVc, 
from running up, it is wrll to have tlu^ legs of the benches ca.>ed 
in tin. The hive-benciies should 710I be j)laced ch^se to a iVwi-, 
a tree, or eve-n in the immediate; vicinity of tall shrubs or 
llowers, that they may !>e the loss accessible to any thiiifr tli.a, 
is likely to commit drprc-datinns on the bees. Ants arc their 
mortal memi.^s. To krep these away, take somo green sticks 
or rods, lay them on l\w ground, twist them into the form of 



KEEPING BEES. 



371 



rings, so as to eruircle each leg of the hive-])cnch, at a fvw 
inches from it. Then cover these rings thickly with tar. You 
may easily trace these destructive insects to tlu^r hills, and 
you may destroy them there, by pouring on boiling water after 
night, w hen they are all at home. 

Wasps and hornets are also very injurious to bees; and their 
nests should always be destroyed as soon as they bt-gin to 
make them. This can hv done, bv lioldinfr under tlumi a stick 
to the end of which is fixed a lighted ra<r, that has b(MMi c-reased 
and (lipped in brimstone. 

As fowls will «^at biM's, they should not be allowed access 
to the place whert* the hives are kept. 

The best situation f(*r hives is to lace the soutli ..r the south- 
east. From thf^ nf>rth they should always he shelterr'd. As 
luM^s require a. grcil deal of water, they will not thrive unless 
there is a stream in their vicinitv. The (rrass round their ixMich 
should h(^ kept fre(> from weeds, and some dwarf or low (lowers 
may come within two feet of it ; bnt tall plants will assist dt^- 
struotivo in->ects in '.rcHiiiT to the !)( ( s. 

The hlvr- nuist hivo fi ur slicks across tiio inside, ;it equal 
distances, tor the Ikm s to work on. The entrance hole may be 
four inclifs wide, ;uid a.n incli and a half hiixh. Old hives 
should not he used fir new ht es ; for an old hive is not so 
wholesonn? as a new one, and it m.iy probably he infested with 
the embryos of moths and other insects. 

Hees are extremely fotid fif the blossonn rif fruit trees, (^of 
the jieach, })articularly.) and of aromatic lierbs ; alsr) of the 
blossoms of beans and of white clover. Hut the best l^au-y is 
nnule (rom the {lowers of the buck-wheat. 

After luiying or selling a hive (d' bees, the he^t time to ro 
mnve it for the purjHise of carrying it away, is in th'^ evening. 
It ^h('uld he raised a little from tho bencli several h(»urs i»efore, 






'•* "I 

4 
I'll, I ' 



ll 






»^ 






372 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



by placing wed^res under it, so thiit all the bees may have tinne 
to get up into the inside ; otherwise they will be very trouble- 
some. Tlien slip a board under the hive, of the size and shape, 
to form a bottom, and plaster it on well with mortar. l*rick a 
card all over with a fork, so as to make it full of air-holes, and 
tack it over the entrance hole. Thus secured, the hive with 
the bees in it, may be conveyed to their new residence, Avhich 
should be near enough for them to arrive that niglit; otherwise 
the combs will be injured. 

When the bees become too numerous for one hive, they issue 
out in a swarm, with a queen of their own, and must be enticed 
into a new Wivr, or ihry will tly away and be lost to their owner. 
You may know when they are going to swarm, by seeing them 
clusterinfr in masses on the bench or outside of tlie hive, and 
by the peculiar sound of their humming. A new hiv(! must 
be in readiness to r(!ceive them, and it should be rubbed about 
tlu' InwvT {lart with cream and sugar, or with thyme, mint, 
marjoram, or other sweet herbs. A. large clean cloth (n sli.-t t, 
for instanr(') should Ix' prrpar'ni to receive them, if nocossary. 
I^ees, whon tliry arc ^n>ing to swann, nrvrr rise to brnin tlu ir 
llight, except on a fine, clear day, and they all start toocthcr; 
generally between nine in the morning, and fiv<> in the al'terniujn. 

In snperinU'uding the swarming of bees, cover yourself \V( 1! 
vitli tliick clothing, tie on a large liat, and put strjiit uloves on 
your bands, so as U> guard against the danger of feeling their 
Blings, should they become irritated. Wlien the swarm has 
risen and commc^nced its flight, it is usual to hav(- a loud noise 
made by tinkling (jn frying-pans, pot-lids, k<;ttles, Kc, for the 
purpose of driving thein to the nearest setlling-place ; uthervvise, 
they may all go otl" to some distant location from u lienrc tbry 
cannot be rec.'overed, W lien well tinkled, they will generally 
settle somewhere clostj at haiul ; most prohabiy, (;n the Lcugii 



KEEPING BKES. 



373 



of a tree. If the swarm rests on any thing that can be brought 
to the ground, spread under it your large linen cloth, and on the 
cloth lay two sticks two feet asunder. Let some one climb 
up quietly, cut off that part of the branch of the tree, (if the 
swarm has settled on it,) and lay it gently on the two sticks 
placed on the cloth. This may be done without disturbing the 
bees that are clinging to the bough. Then quickly and dex- 
terously clap down the hive over the swarm ; fold the re- 
mainder of the cloth over the whole, and thus carry it cautiously 
to its station. 

Some hives will swarm twice; the second swarming may be 
expected within three or tour days, but never later than ten 
days, after the tirst. 

If a hive divides into two swarms, it is a siirn that each 
swarm has a ([ueen. When a cluster of bees are seen together, 
formino- a knot about the size of a plum, the queen will gene- 
rally be found there. She is larger than the other bees. 
Separate them, and with a wine-glass turned downward, you 
may secure the queen. Put her with a score or two of li(^r 
bubjce'ts into a box nertorated with holes lar^-e enoinrh lo adiuit 
air and yet not to allow the bees to escape. Feed tlieir, w ith 
honey ; and keep the (jueen in reserve, in case of the death of 
a sovereign in one of the hives. When all the bet^s of a hi^-e 
cease to work, it is an evidence that their ((ueen is dead ; and 
the spare queen should then be taken laU^ in the evening, (wet- 
ting her wings to })revent her escape,) and introduced into the 
hive; when her new subjects will receive her gladly, and re- 
sume their work. 

^ on may take the honey withf>ut destroying tiie bees, (as is 
thf^ usual ])ractice,) by the following f^asy method. Dig a 
small ])it near the hive bench, and have rc^ady a new empty 
hive with four sticks laid across the inside, which mu n be wtdl 






tJm 



m 






41 



m 



& 



iv'* 



-Jl 






374 



Tin: HOUSE BOOK. 



rubbed witb aromatic berl)S. In the cvenirip;-, after the !)ees are 
all quietly lodged, api)roach the hive and turn it gently over 
into the pit, with its head downwards. Then place a[rainst its 
mouth the mouth of the new hive, adjustinp^ tlu-m so nicely 
that no crack or aperture remains between. While one person 
hdUis tin; two hiv(^s closely together in the above manner, 
another siiould take a small stick, and beat gently round the 
sides of the low^er hive for a quarter of an hour or more ; during 
w liich time, the bees will all leave their cells in the low'er hive, 
and ascetul into the u{)})(T one. 'J'hen gently lift the new hive 
with all its little tinants adhering to the interior, and stand it 
on the heiu'h tVi-m whence the other was taken. This sliouhl 
he dune about the third week in June, that the bees nray have 
time to make a new stock of honey during the summer. 

Bees can be fed in the winter with refuse honey, after the 
b(Kst has bcei! draini^d otf ; and with brown sugar smimered 
with fresh beer to tiie consistenc(i of molasses ; allowing a pint 
of l,M'er t(j a p(;und cd' sugar. I'his should be introduced into 
thr hive, !*y means of small wooden trouglis put in at the door. 

?severUieIe.-5S, a lar-'c (ju.uitiiy ol good honey m Ci.mbs will 
also be necessary to keep them a!iv(* during the wiriter; and 
their hiv(>s siumbl be c(jver« (1 with straw^ ami kt'ut warm. 

To atrain hunty. — Take a knife and cut tlie condjs across 
into small squares ; lay them in a sieve, and place the sieve 
over a broad deep pan, and set it in the hot sun or before the 
fire. W hen the pieces of honey-cond) are well drained on one 
side, turn them on the otlier. After the honey lias settled, a 
scum will be found on the lop, which nmst be taken o(f. Then 
transfer the honey to a stoiie Jar. and cover it closely. JNit the 
cond)S into \\ thin lirien hag, set a vess(d under it, and by 
Sijueezing and pressing, you may g('t out sonn? more honey ; 
which, however, will be inferior to that which has run freely 






T AKIN (i C A R E OF (; O I D - F 1 S H . 



375 



of itself. It will assist in feeding bees; or it may be made 
into a paste with lard or melted spermaceti, and will be good 
for chapped hands. 

To obtain the wax, take the combs, after all the honey has 
been extracted from them, and having tied tluMu up in a bag, 
(placing some pebble stones at the bottom to keep them down,) 
put the bag into a kettle of cold water, and hang it over tiie 
fire. As the wat(>r heats, the wax melts and rises to the top, 
while the iin{)urities remain below. Afterwards, put the melted 
wax into small saucers, and set it in tiie air to cool. It will 
come out in cakes; first wrapping round each saucer a cloth 
dipped in hot water, to loosen tlie wax. 



TO TAKE CARE OF COED-FISIT.—It is a mistake to 
suppose that gold-fish kept in glass glotM^s require feeding. 
They have the singular property of subsisting on the invisii.)le 
animalcula' of the water; and though they will eat bread or 
vermicelli if given to them, they are much betic^r without it. 
It is necessary, how^ever, to change the water cvfrij day ; as 
clean fresh water is indispensable to tluir existence, v. lien 
confined in a small space. To do tliis, empty th<> globe into a 
large basin, pouring the fish along witii the water. ^\ ash the 
globe very clean inside and out, making it look perfectly bricrht 
and clear; and fill it with fresh water. Then catch the gold- 
fish in your hand, (doing it very carefully, to avoid hurting 
them,) and instantly transfer them to the globe of (lean water, 
r.old-fisb, in winter, should always be kfqit in a warm room. 
It is not wndl to have more than two fish in one globe. 



TO MAKE i;Ki:.\n SEALS.—Ou receivinn: letter^ with 
liandsrime seals, do not break tlie wax, but v\\\ round it with 
n pair of scissors. When you have collected a lum.bcr Irum 



" M 






ft 



It:'' 



l! *i 



376 



THE HOUSE 150 OK, 



which you wish to make hread seals, proceed as follows. (Jet 
3 fresh loaf of baker's bread baked that day, and par*^ otf ail 
the crust. Mix in a deep dish, a sufficient quantity of the best 
Indian ink, by rubbing it with water, so as to forn* a liquid 
about the consistence and colour of good writing ink. 'I'hen 
lay aside tbe cake of Indian ink, and take the crumb or soft 
part of the bread, a little at a time, and with your hands work 
it with the black liquid into a stiff dough, working and knead- 
ing it well, till thoroughly incorporated. Then divide the 
black dou<Th into bits about the size of a hickory nut, and form 
tliem into the shape of a watch seal. Have ready the wax 
seals wbose impression you wish to take, and press hard upon 
each of them the large end of one of the bread seals, till the 
device is deeply stamped. If you do not get a good impression 
at first, smooth over the surface of the bread seal and press it 
again u{>on the wax. When tliey are all done, and })roperly 
stamped, place them on a plate, so as not to touch each other, 
and set them on a dark cool closet-shelf to dry gradually. If 
dried in the sun or by the fire, they will crack, and be useless. 
\\lien perfectly dry, they will be as hard as stones, and may 
be used like any other seal ; giving a very good impression to 
the wax, though not quite so strong as that of a cornelian or 
metal siixnet. 

After making bread seals, yon will find it necessary to use 
lemon juice or salt of lemon before you can remove the black 
stain from your hands. 

JJy means of a bread seal, you may, in answering the letter 
of a friend, return on the wax the same device that you have 
received. 



TO MAKH WinriNC; INK.— IVocure at a druggist's 
four ounces of blue Aleppo nut-galls, as perfect and free from 



MAKING WRITIXO INK. 



377 



blemishes as possible; those that are smallest and bluest are 
the best. Also half an ounce of copperas; and lialf an ounce 
of fine ch^an gum arable. Let each of these articles be 
coarsely bruised or pounded, but do not mix them. Put each 
into a scjjarate (|ueensware or earthen v(>ssel. I^oil a cpiart 
of clear soft water, (not more;) and when it is scaldieir hot, 
pour a pint and a half of it on the bruised nut-galls. Divide 
equally the remaining half pint, and ])our one jill of il on the 
copperas, and the other jill on the gum arable. Set them all 
away on a closet shelf, where they will he free from dust; or 
cover them closelv. i.et tlunn stand a \v(M'k to infuse, stirriii'^ 
them frtMjuently : partieularly th(^ gum arable, \\ hidi, otherwise, 
will 'ui ui\() [I clod. At the end of vi week, pour the copperas 
and the i:um arable into tin? lartrer vessel that contains the nut- 
galls, and stir the whole togeth(M". Let it stand o})eu for two 
(»r three days. Then have ready a clean Idark li(;tllt that will 
hold a quart, and drop into it a dozen cloves slightly iiniised. 
Put a funnel into the mouth of it, set a strainer in the funnel, 
and priur the mixture through them into the bottle. Place tlic 
buttle (uncorke'.i) for tlirec or four days io the open air, whirh 
^^ ill hi.ieken tlie ink. Theii eork it, ae.'l the ink v. i'i be ready 
for use. The ehtves arc to preservo it tV.iin neiil.! iii'^-. Ttiis 
ink will he liaind excellent; improving in hkiekness alter it 
lias reniaineil a while on the pap( r. 

You may make a (juart of ink in this mamu r, at one loiirth 
the cost of the same (juantity olitained at a stationer's. 

Bef )re you rej)lenisli an ink-stand, empty out the dre^s, fill 
it with warm vv.iter, and let it sf.ak a while, 'i'hen wash out 
all the sediment that sticks about the sides and boftiun, and 
rinse it onite eit ;ni ; otherwise the remain-^ cf 'lit' old ink v ill 
tliieken an** lUjurt; llit ni \v. 



•■•n «c 



A' 



.ill V'il 



878 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



RED INK. — Take four ounces of the raspings of Brazil 
wood ; half an ounce of powdered alunri ; and a pint of the 
best vinegar. Put them into a pipkin, and boil them gently 
one hour. Let the ink stand for tWo or three days, to deepen 
the colour; then strain it and bottle it for use. 



DURABLE INK. — Put into a two ounce phial, a hundred 
grains of lunar caustic; two drachms of the best and cleanest 
gum arable pounded to powder; one scruple of sap green ; and 
one ounce of clear soft water. Cork it, and let it stand two 
days in the hot sun, or near the fire. This is the marking 
ink. 

For the sizing liquid, put into a larger phial, a quarter of an 
ounce of powdered gum arable dissolved in a large table-spoon- 
ful of boiling water; and add to it half an ounce of su6-carbo- 
nate of soda divssoived in four ounces of hot water. Mix them 
well together, and let it stand for two or three days, stirring it 
frequently. 

It is best to mark linen on a dry day. Dip a camers-hair 
brush or the feather of a (juill into the sizing liquid, and wet 
with it a place a little larger than is sufhcient to contain the 
name you wish to mark. Then dry' it in the sun or by the fire. 
Next day smooth tlie place with a warm ir(m ; and dipping a 
clean pen into the ink or marking li(juid, write with it on the 
sizing. To get it vrry blacky pour off into a cup the thin 
liquid from the top ; dij> your pen into the thick black at the 
bottom, and write with it. When you have don(% return tlie 
tliin liquid to the ink phial. Place the linen in the sun or near 
th«' fire, and alter the ink has dried, smooth it with an iro!i. 
Next (lay, wash th«' marked jjlaee in a basin with cold water 
■<ui(l C'lstilf rioa[^ tu set the colour htture it goes mto the gone- 
ml wash. 



LIQUID COLOURS FOR MAPS, ETC. 



379 



If you find, upon trial, that the ink is not black enough, add 
an inch more of lunar caustic to the small bottle. 

Durable ink may be extracted from linen, by stretching the 
part over a cup of boiling water, and rubbing on it with your 
finger some oxalic acid or salt of lemon. Then wash the place 
immediately in warm soap-suds, and rinse it in cold water. 



LIQUID COLOURS FOR MAPS, &c,— To make a fine 
red colour, take an ounce of powdered cochineal, three-quarters 
of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a piece of alum the size 
of a hickory nut; this alum must be finely powdered. Put the 
(Hx-hineal and the alum into an earthen pipkin with rather less 
than a pint of clear soft water, and boil them for half an hour, 
stirring in gradually the cream of tartar. Then strain it, and 
put it\way for use in a clean bottle tightly corked. When 
you go to use it, pour out some into a cup, and dilute it with 
water, till you get it the tint you want. 

Uij;hf Bine roIounng.—Bve-.^k up a quarter of a pound of 
blue vitriol. Put it into a pipkin with less than a pint of clear 
soft water, and set it over hot coals. Add gradually, while it 
,s !)oiling. two ounces of cream of tartar; and boil the mix- 
ture half an hour, ^rhen strain, and bottle it lor use. This 
is a light and beautiful blue. Dilute it with water when you 

use it. 

Bright Green Co/ot^r/no-.—Take some of the above blue 

vitriol colouring, and melt in it a small lump of gamboge. 

Then stir it well. 

Fine >V//ou'.— Dissolve lump gamboge (which must never 

hv pulverized) in soft water. 

Dr^p Blue r^.Au/r/ni:.— Break up a quarter of a pound of 
indigo, and put it into a large bottle. Pour on it eight ounces 

of oil of vitriol. Cork it, nnH U^t it stand a week, shaking it 



380 



T HE II u s j: book. 



sevi'ral tinn s a day. By diiulincr it with water, you may have 
th(^ colour as pale as you please. By adding gainbo<re to this 
blue, you may make a dark green. 

l\irpk and JAlac. — I\Iix together the above blue colouring, and 
the li<iuid cochineal, diluting it with water to the tint reijuired. 

Bnnvn. — Take three ounces of coj)peras, break it up small, 
and boil it in a pint of water for lialf an hour, 'j'hen strain 
and bottle it. Dilute some of it when you wish a paler tint. 



COLOIjHINO maps.— In colouring maps, if you find that 
th(^ paper (for want of good sizing) is likely to spot or sink, 
(which you may ascertain by trying it with a liLtle water.) go 
all ov(>r it (pnnious to colouring) with strong alum-water, 
washod on with a very large camers-hair brush. Then dry it. 
Your colours for washing the land parts of the map must be 
entirely Ihiuid, and placed beside you in cups. Have also a 
small pitcher of water to dilute them still more, if necessary. 
'I'liey shouhl be laid on with a larg(^ brush, as evenly as j>ossible; 
doing all the red at once, then all the blue, then all the yellow, 
&c. I).sigiuit<' the water with light blue carricnl along the 
edge of the land, uiul shaded (tlT, till ner.rly e()h>urle>>. \\ lim 
the (itllVront sections of lht> map are all washed with thoir re- 
spective^ colours, uiid Ignite dry, havi; ready some cake cohnirs 
rubbed on Utile ])lates or saucors, and with a fine camel's-hair 
pencil, mark out, with a dark shade of each colour, all the 
houiuiary outiint^s. 

A little ox-gall infused in the water will greatly brighten 
the colours, and cause them to (low more easily in the l)rush, 
by ct.unteracting the greasin(;ss of the printing ink. 



TO MAivK PAPHIi TRANSrAHKNT.— Dissolve some 
"[o-Aw ill spirits of uine, Diji \\\Xo it a rainers-ir.iir brush, and 



COURT FLA8TER, &C. 



381 



with it go over as much of the paper as you wish to make 
transparent, doing it on both sides. 

A coloured drawing or engraving may be made by this 
application transparent in those parts where moonlight or fire- 
light is intended to be very bright. Afterwards, they can only 
be seen to advantage with a light behind them, llie same 
application is used for transparencies painted on linen or thick 
muslin stretched on a frame. 



TO MAKE COURT PLASTER.-Stretch tightly, some 
thin black or flesh-coloured silk in a wooden frame, securing 
it with pack-thread or small tacks. Then go all over it with 
a soft bn.tle brush dipped in dissolved isinglass or strong 
gum-arabic water. Give it two or three coats, letting it dry 
between each. Then go several times over it with white of egg. 



TO MAKE POUNCE.— Powder very finely, some gum 
pandarac-sift it, and put it into a little box. It is used to 
smooth the paper aft(^r scratx-hing out witli your penknife a 
hlot or an error in writing. Ifub on the pounce with your finger. 



TO PRESERVE PEN< IE MARKS.-lf you have any 
thing drawn or written with a lea.l pencil tliat you wish to pre- 
serve from rubbing out, dip the paper into a dish of skimmed 
nnlk. 'I'hen dry it, and iron it on the wrong side. In in.nmg 
paper do not lot the iron r<>st a monuMit, (as it will h'ave a 
crease or mark,) but go over it as rapidly as possible. 



% 






382 



SEW INC. WORK. 



383 



SEWING WORK. 



REMARKS. 

No sort of sewinq- work ran go on well, imh'ss there is at 
hand a sutTiciimt and well chosen supply of every thing neces- 
sary to its accoiiij)]ishnient. 

In providintr nc edles, short ones will o-enerally he found most 
convenient, and their eyes should he ratlier lar^re. Many of 
the needles that are put up in assorted quarters of a hundred, 
are so small as to he of no possihle use to any one. There- 
fore, in huying needles, it is hest to select tor yourself. Have 
always soiru^ tiiat are very larij^f, for coarse strong- purposes. 
When a needle breaks or bends, pat it at once into tiie fires 
for if thrown on the lloor or out ol the window, it may chance 
to run into ihe foot ol' some one. It is wcl! to crei ;U !r;ist a 
dn'/.ou (MtliiH spools ■,\\ a tiuio, that you iuay iiiive alw.iys .it 
Irand the dillerent <rra(lations of C(»arse and fine. The liue 
spools of coloured cotton are far Ix ttrr tor many purposes tlian 
bad sewinir silk; hut coloured sewiu'f cotton should onlv he 
used for thintrs that are lu'ver to he washed, ;is it always fades 
aftrr heititr in water. Mouridnjr chintz should t.n no account 
be sewed with black cotton, as it will run when wet, and slain 
the se;uus. 'I'he r^ewiug silk now made in America is of ex- 
crljeiit qunlity. niul fir sujiorior to the imported both in streno-th 
and sinci^thuf ^-s. Of I'oreinii sewin;/ silk, the liali.ui is (j^'iod, 
j)rovi(ied it IS le^t very fine; in which case, l.Mjiug only two 
tbrerulod. it \^^l -nUt ;in'] r;iv"i, and 1...^!^!.'^ is verv v\tMk. 



The l)est En^rUsh sewino; silk is excellent, hcino- both strong 
and pliable. The India is strong-, but harsh, wiry, and unplea- 
sant to use. It comes in skeins that are twisted up very tifrhtly. 
Silk is troublesome to wind, and is weakened by the process. 
It is l)etter to cut the ski^ins at the tying-place, and put them 
into long })apers. By layiufr on each other six halt-sheets of 
long or foolscap paper, and sewing them together down the 
middle, as if making a book, and then foldings each division 
lengthways into a thread-pa})er, you may have; a recep- 
tacle for twelve dilferent skeins of silk; kcM^ping them all 
coiu{)act I'y means of a narrow ribbon or tajx; tied round the 
whole. 

Except for some very slight purposes, it is best to buy no 
tape that is not twilb d. Hial linen tape is now scarcely to 
be tound at any price ; all that passes for it being only of 
glazed cotton; thertdore, since you mu^t have cotton, it is 
better to get the twilled, as it is very strong, and not apt to 
break. In buying c(jtton cord, choose thatwhiidi is quite small, 
( r, when covered, it will be clumsy; -.md see that it is (dean 
and ot" ;>. <joo(l whit'.', parlicularly if intended f)r muslin; a.s it 
\\ill sh(>w throuirh the covering, and never wash whiter. It is 
well to buy a dozen hanks ol'cord at a time. 

In (dioosiud- (ralloon or silk ferret, inspect it attentivfdy to 
see if it is not half cotton, instead of being all silk. If there 
is cotton in it, th«> colour will be dull, and it will v<Ty so.»n 
hreak. Tin re are thi(d^ stout ribbons (usually broad) that have 
cotton in them, and wear rough and rusty almost immediately : 
do not buy them. 

You will require several bodkins of dilferent sizes, 'i'he 
smoother they are, th(> better they will run tlsrough th(> cases. 
Al\\;!ys (r< t them with a kuMlt at t!ie end. Slf(l liMiikins are 
ni're servieeable than th' s( (d" g.ld or silver; but iu buyie.g 

/ 






' t 



384 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



SEWING WORK. 



385 



steel ones, take care that they are not pewter : this you may 
ascertain by trying if they will bend. 

Vou will find it necessary to have three pair of scissors ; a 
large pair for cutting out things that are thick and heavy ; a 
smaller pair for common use, and a very small pair for work 
that is nice and ddicate. They should all be sharp-pointed. 
When your scissors begin to grow dull, have them ground at 
once. 'J'he cost will not exceed six cents for each pair, (even 
if ground at a surgical instrument shop,) and haggling with 
dull scissors is very uncomfortable M^ork. 

IL is well to have always two thimbles, in case of one 
chancincT to be mislaid. When you find that a hole is worn in 
your thimble, give up the use of it; as it will catch the eyes 
of your needles and snap them off. 

Keep always coarse brown thread in the house; also hanks 
of gray, white, and black worsted, for darning winter stockings ; 
and slack twisted cotton, and strong floss silk, for repainng 
other stockings. 

As mother-of-pcnrl buttons have, from their superior durabi- 
lity, almost (Mitirrly superheat d the use of thrpad buttons, it i^, 
well to keep a supply of them always in the house, buying 
several cards at a time. It is a saving of expense, as well as 
of time and trouble, to buy every sort of sewing material in 
(|uantities, as far as convenient. There is also (u^onomy in 
purchasing plain ribbons by the piece, when they are of excel- 
lent quality. Keep your ribbons always wound on blocks and 
secured with minikin pins. You can easily obtain blocks from 
the shops where ribbons are sold, lu winding on a block a 
ribbon that is in two pieces, slip the end of the second piece 
under the end left of the first, and not over it, or thc^re will be 

a ridije. 

You should appropriate a box or drawer entirely to the pur- 



pose of keeping materials employed in sewing; the articles for 
immediate use being in your work-basket. 

There are various ingenious needle-books, so contrived as to 
contain, in a very small compass, all the implements that may 
be necessary to a lady when she takes her sewing with her on 
a visit. 

A j)iece of white wax, for rubbing on a needleful of sewing- 
silk to strengthen it, is a most useful little article : so also is 
a small box of prepared chalk, to dip the fingers in when the 
weather is warm and the hands damp. But, as some portion 
of the chalk will come oO' upon your work, it is best to use it 
only when you are sewing white things. At other times, you 
will find an emery-bag indispensalde. Those that are made for 
sale hav«> generally so little emery in them, that they are soon 
found to bt' useless. It is best to make your own emery-bags ; 
buying the emery yourself at a druggist's, or at a hardware 

store. 

We hisjhly recommend a l)rick pincushion, as an important 
arlicle of convenience when sewing long seams, running 
breadths, or henimin!/ rullh s. It is to(* heavy to overset, and 
far su})eri(ir to a serew juncusiiion, w liich can only be fixed to 
a table with a i)rojecting edg(\ A hrick pincushion can be set 
anywhere, even on a chair; and <'nables the person who has 
pirmed on it h,er sewing, to sit always in an upright posture, 
which is a great advantage; as to be obliged to stoop inces- 
santly over your work, is extr<miely injurious to health. 

(iet a larire rhran brick, not in the least broken or scaled off 
at the edges, and cover it all over with strong coarse tow 
linen, or thick cotton cb)lh, sewed on tightly and smoothly with 
strorur thread. Tlien inak<' a bag of thick linen, allowing it 
to be two or tlir( c inclus larger eiu-h w.iy than the top of the 
hricV. Sliiir the bag ns hard as possible with bran or with 



if^-l 






-*> 



>*',/• 



:\l A !v 1 N G IP L I N K N . 



387 



386 



TH^- HOUSE ROOK. 



elean woo! ; (not a^llon, a. i. .ill provent tl,n pins fron, ,r,„ns 
in ) You must put ,n at least two .|uarts of bran, but most 
probably more. You <.an procure bran at a tW-d-.tore, or trou. 
a stable". In making .bis pineushu.n, you sbould wear a lanre 
apron, ami keep tbe whole apparatus on a waiter or tray. V so 
a spoon for puttinn' tbe bran u,to tbe ba., ; ami press ,t down 
as hard as possibb-. Wben tbe baff cannot hold any u.or.-, 
even by ti.ht s.,ueezin,, sew up tbe open end. Fit the ba, 
evenly all round to tbe top of tbe brick, and sew it strongly .« 
the coarse linen covering. Then sew a piece of jjreen bar.o 
on the bottom, where it s.,s on tbe .aide. Afterwards cover 
the whole pineushi.n (exe, pt <be bot.on,) w„h thick strong 
silk, or dan.ask, or some other substantial material. It is be.t 
„ot to ornament i. with bows, as your thread may catch round 
ihem when yo\i an^ s(win<r. 

Ml mant„a-n>akers and sean,stresses should be provded 
.vitb brick pincushions. They .-an be n,ad.. at a very tnihug 
cost: and. with renewe,! coverings, will last twenty years „r 

more. 

A suKilirr pin.u.lnon may h. uuul' in h smular n.in.ur, 

.ubslilutin^ lor tlu. Wu-k a s^uan- blork of wno.i. TIh.s. hiu.k 
pincushions an> not h.avy ^non^h to use wh.n srvvinor a \ou^ 
seanN but they are very convenier.t to hobi tbe pins you nray 
wara when evittin<r out and lixn.- work on a bed ; lor, bavin<.r 
flat bottoms, they are not liabb- to roll olT. You may also n.ako 
a very handsome toilrt piiu-usbion with a block for its foun- 
dation. 

MAKING UP MNFA'.—lubuyin<rlin."n, select ibatwbu'b 
(however hue) is tbiek, and has a round, elo.r thread. If .>ot 
a p.rf.r//t/ ^irrW wbito, at brst, let no prrsuasinn induee vm. to 



take it; as, whatever you may 



'be told to the contrary, you will 



find that it is b(>yond the skill of any laundress to whiten it, 
cv(>n by rei>eated washin^rs, boilinn^s, and spreadincrs on the 
grass. I\luch of the linen tliat is now import.^d is half cotton, 
instead of beincr uU Ibix ; and the deception is so complete, that 
it is extreundy ditUeult to discover it till afti r washing and 
ironing. It will then be evident by the threads being Hatter 
and h^s glossy than wbon all of lin-n ; also it will be iound 
to wear v^ery badly, br.^aking into slits after being a short time 
in use. \Vo have s( rn very fine liuen of this sort, that went 
into slits even while making up, merely in stroking the gathers 
^N ilh tbe p(ma of a needle. If it is oih^red for sale considerably 
under tin. usual cost of fme Imen, y^.u may justly doubt its 
gooduoss; but even whrn a hiuh pru e is askrd, liuen is some- 
times f^Hind deceptive. All fabrics wov. n of two diilerent 
materials (as flax and cotton, cotton and silk, silk and worsted) 
are liable to sUt or fray very soon; the thrc^ads of the stronger 
article woari.><r -it those of the weaker. For a similar reason, 
what is calbd luslrc .//A: also wears badly, though, at first, it 
looks v. rv neb and glo.>y ; but tbo eross-tbr<.ads being much 
Un.-kor tban tbo .tb^ rs, the hne threads are cut and frayod by 

tiiom m a very slni' time. 

1„ ,.hoos.n.j hnen, vm ,„av .,e„er„ilv lest il. nr.oduess by 
,1,-awing one or two .•( .he threads, if .he thnad breaks i.nme- 
riia.<lv^.he linen is no. gn.Hl; cHher Im in.r injured by .he pro- 
cess of rapid Ideaehinu, or havim, cotton in i.. l!ul .f y..u can 
draw. v.rU wav, a thread „f a nuarler ,.f a yard in h ng.h, vuu 
„,,,y e, nsider tin. linen wor.h haying. Wh. n Im. a is very 
.1, a thread mar a yard K,ng may he dr„w n m ,., without 

broakmg. 

li.f .re ,1 is cut ,.nt. the pie,-,, of linen must alwas :. iM- wa.i.ed 

,,,.,1 .tretehed, .„ shnid. it an,l tal n n- ^^"l-an.,. In 

„„Ki,:„ up limn, .ake .are m,l to sew It w ith ihr. ad or ,,o..on 



\ 



h 1 






388 



THE HorSE HOOK. 



that is too fine ; or the stitches, after a few washings, will 
break, and the seams rip. The stitching, however, should be 
done with very fine thread. The gathering-thread must be 
particularly strong; otherwise it will break, and give you the 
trouble of doing the gathers over again. Many use white silk 
for gathering ; but, unless very excellent, it will break as soon 
as thread or cotton. 

The buttons also must be sewed on with very strong thread. 



TO MAKE A PLAIN SlllKT.—A long piece of yard- 
widt linen will make eight shirts for a man of moderate size, 
■and in a plain manner; and it can be s(j cut out that not a 
thread of the linen will be lost. To do this, proceed as follows : 
Take an old shirt, lay it on a b(;d, and measure from it the 
U'n^Ttha of ei(rht bodies, notching each length with your scissors. 
Having thus marked the divisions, cut off the whole hmg piece 
that vou intend lor all the bodies. Next, cut off, from one of 
the si<ies of this body-piece, a long straight strip for wrist-bands, 
shouhl.T-straps. sleev-lniings, slrt-vc-Lnissets, neck-gussets, 
tail-picrcs, and hu^mi-biis. This strip must be as wide, all 
Uie w'ciy a]ni!..r, ns a wrist-baud bcf^r.' it is doubird. 

Take this long strip and (uH-asuring l)y the pattern shirt) 
cut off from it sixt.-tn double wristbands and sixteen nock- 
gussets. Tho neck-gussets must he cut oxactly square, but 
doubled triangularly when s.vvrd. m. The strip that comes 
off from the si<h' of the neck-gussets is for the sleeve-linings. 
The remainder will make the bosom-hits and tail-pieces. Then 
measure, by thr pattern shirt, the exact sizr of th(- eiirht collars, 
and cut thrm fro'.n tiir 1 irnv pitcf i>( iiiien that was left after 
the !)odi(<s were tak-n off. Of yard-wid.' lin(-n, on(^ breadth 
aeross should, niako thr. r collars, froin tin- reiuaind.T iA' tiie 
linen, cut the sleeves according to the pattern-shirt. One 



MAKING UP E I N E N'. 



389 



breadth across shovild make two sleeves. You will find tliat 
by exactly ibllowmg these directions, there will be no clippings 
o; shapings, but every particle of the linen will be turned to 

account. 

The olJ sl.irt must l,e your n.o.lel in puttiug together and 

.oxvin.r tlu- different parts. It is usual to make tlu. bodies first ; 

,heu tL sl.ev,.s ; tl,en tl.c collars, wnst-bar>ds, and neek-gus- 

sets ; and Vastly to put all tU<. dilU r.nt parts t.^g.^ther. 

For ruining shirts, a brea.lth .( wide cambrk- .s the usual 
.lUnvuneo ir.r eaeU suh- of the hoson,. If the can.bric .s narrow, 
allow a breadth and a quarter to eaeh side. If too full, it w.U 
„., Ue smoolhly or pleat well. Malf a quarter of a yard >s a 
g..od d<pth for each fr,!!. Tbis, if the eaud.nc is wule, allows 
ariuarter of a yard to each shirt; being two yards to eight 

''"iTilie room where you g. nerally eut out your sewing-work, 
you should keep a yard-stiek. It is a good practice to measure 
;hin.^s as soon as they are brought home ; that if there is any 
„,isuke in ,he.,uanli.y, you may discover it at once, aud have 

'' hit-1'hing a liub. girl plan, sewing, it is not necessary that 
she should begm with a shut; particularly if she learns at 
\ chool. where making a shir, is always a very slow business, and 
,vhere s„n,e of the pieces are frequently lost during the process. 
^ mncl, better way is, n. le. a child practise the vaneties ot 
,„amsewingonayardofnnesh,r,n,gnuishn,onwd,K. er 

.e.uuc.er may contrive .o show her specimens of all 
aiiVerent .!ni,gs belonging to shirt-making; such as sesvmg 
.,.,...,,. s,.nns; baek-stitehmg and felling; hemming; fme 
,;,.., Lg; working .uttoii-ledes; making gathers and s.w.ng 

, ,:,. .,,H-k-tru-5i Vo, <?cc. Vv hcH a 

Ibeiii 10 ; taii-pivcee, bosom-bit., atck t,u.-. 

- 1 1 1 b iL v'aii be done 



' -i ^^1 



ny 



« fi » 



390 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



on one of these preparatory yards of muslin, (or plam-work 
samplers,) she will find no difficulty in making a shirt. In 
teaching a young person to cut out linen, you had best let her 
begin with night-shirts, which (except that they are now made 
long enough to descend to the feet) are cut out precisely accord- 
ing°to the foregoing directions for a plam day-shirt. 



SHIRTS \MTH BOSOM PIECES.— For a man of mode- 
rate size, you n>ay take fronr the side of a piece of yard-wide 
Imen, a strip that will sullice for the wrist-bands; of course 
allowing them double. Each body may be measured about a 

yard in length.. 

Cut out of the fore-body of eacli a square piece, three fingers 
long and three fingers wide. This scpiare piece, split in two, 
mult be sewed as lining on each side of the back part of tlu- 
body. The false bosoms, collars, &c., are frequently made of 
finer linen than the rest of the shirt. The fitlse bosom must 
be wider on the left si.le than on the right ; for instance, half 
,, yard and a uail (.^r sixteenth of a yard) on the loft side, and 
a quarter and a half-.piarter on the right. It must have a broad 
tuck on each side ; and on the ..Ige of the left (wliere it lies 
over the right) a broad hem, with a row of stitching n.-ar the 
extreme edge. This bosom piece should be neatly ins.-rted 
into the square place cut out for its reception, baek-stit.'hing 
and felling it down, an.l making tiie seams as small as possible. 
When sewing it to the two lower corners of the bosom piece, 
two pleats must be laid in the l,ody of the shut. The wrist- 
bands Hhould be cut of a ercM-ont torn,, and U,e .deeve gathered 
mto the hollow or eo.ncavo part. Uo nut moke then, bla., or 
they will stretch out of shape in iroiiiiio-. 

Shirts made in this manner may i ither hav a collar sewed 



M 



A KING LP L1NE>>'' 



391 



lanently, or you may finish thetn with a binding ro 



und 



on permi 

the neck, to be worn with a false collar. 



A SHIRT OPEN AT THE BACK OF THE NECK.- 

,f the shuts are for a man of moderate size, and the l.i^n is 

,ard-wide, you may, in cutting out the body, (which should 

be a yard in length,) take a strip off the side for the wrist-band 

&c. Slit the hack of the shirt, down from the neck, about half 

a yard deep. This slit must be hemmed ; and at its term.na- 

t,on a tuck is to he laid all the way down the remainder o the 

.Uirt-back. Cut a square piece out of the upper parte the 

fore-body, (about a quarter and a half-quarter deep, a,td the 

.ame in width,) for the purpose of admitting a full bosom piece. 

This s.,uare piece of linen will come mto us., for sleeve-lmmgs 

shonlder-lmhigs, &c. The bosom piece must he cut abot. 

a.ee-,p,arters wide, and a quarter and a half-quarter d.vp. It 

i, to be set into the open square mad., for i.s r.cepUon m the 
fore-b...ly ; fust laying it into three broad ph.ats of ... qua! s,..e - 

„a.-.g them d.nvn till y '-'■-'' '''<;''"^''7,'T ^l. It 

„,, ,,„ ,...,,.U ,o the proper si.e. The Cose-stitc the . 
..nthewava.,wnbyadra«ntbr.ad. A.terwards ,„...n the 

•, ,„., Inck-slitchin.r and iVUing H down 
bosom piec.. into Us place, ba.k . 

, , , i.iuns the lower pail ..f the hos..mpi.iM.) by 
for."-body (where It j.nns the low. i ,„„„;„ ,|„. 

,,,,ng small ph'ats, one at each corner, an.l -w., meet, .. 
eltr . .ns..rt mto the top .d' each sho.thhr (wb..r.. ih,. c, ,„r 
to go ,.) a neck-gusset, gathered a Itttle at the npper e.ge 

,.ue the tops of the shoulders with an un,h.rp,e..e about half 

C.Iu.. the back of the m.cU,havm. cut ou, the .tool, round- 

;,„.:„ do.-,,, anls. .,■„,.,„ ok, hot., l...>oro and ...loud nmst 
,:..i„„d„.,,uade.ra.io,ddopi,.eeofl,a.a,,.oou. hall a 



^M 



MAKINCJ Hi' LINEN. 



393 



392 



THE HOUSE BO O K. 



f,„.er .Irep wl,... .louble.l. This l,in,lu,- .nusl b. a stnu^ht 
band, u.Hl .i>oukl have Uvo buttons and button-holes heh.nd, 
(one above ano.her,) and diree.ly in front a button t^, .u.t.nn 
the false eoUar « ith wbieh these shirts an- always worn. 

The sleeves nu.st be eut quite straight. A bn^adth ot yard- 
„-ide r„>en will n,ak.. a pa,r of sleeves. The sl,.eve-,,.se,s 

shoulders and at the wrists. The wrist-hands nu.st be o, 
double linen, (no, cu, bias,) n. depth about a iin,er. Uny 
.„oubi be cut spreadi,., or fa,n,in„ so as ,o be w.der on the 

,,,.K of the h 1 than at .h,. wrist, and hollowed out or o,ade 

;„>,,,.„ .,, the l,onon.. where they are sewed on to ,he sleeve- 

..„hers. l?ound them off ar the upper eorners, and fnnsh then. 

„',„, .,, r,.w .d- fn.e stitehin,, a very Ut.le .i-tance fron, the 

edw I'm a button and l)Uttr,n-liole t.) ( aeh. 

;■„ ,.,l,er buttons ar.. now used f.r shirts than those ol 

mother-' t'i'ear]. ^ 

TO M\KK A rAl>^l' rOI,l.M!.-Takeas,ra,,l,t pnee 

„,-,i.„bb l.nen.al i tw..,eehes deep wb,nd.ulded,,nd turn 

i„,|,,,„i,,,.s. This is f,r the band .ubaM, of the collar, auM 
i. eoneealed under the eravat. Kor tb.- ebe, ks or visible part 
„f ,he e.dlar, eu, eut two p.eees of linen, (wi.hl.nu.os b.r 
ea, h.) .uakinu tbern ab,.u, ball a finiier deep in fr.nt, or perhaps 
deep.^r. Sl.pe their upper ed-.s dnwn towards lb,, baek ol tUe 
,„.,.l;, till ,b,'ir depth is redm-ed to Imle .nore than an .neb; 
,„a ,nve the lower edaes a sliebl eurve inwards, where ,t ,s to 
j,„„.bes,r.i..htneek-le,-,nd. Thefr.nt eorners thai eon,e on 
„,eehe,k.-.nuMb,. rounded off. ae,dslop,.d a Itttle.u.ards a. 

,l„v d.se.nd t„ tb.. neek-band, into wbn-b liusc- eheek pe ees 
,„„., 1,.. -.ewed. •l'b,-vnn,.! have a r..w..rf,e.e stit.hie,, all 
rM-..r,.!. :■: little di -tance from the upper v,l^v. I>ir.e.ly lo lea.l 



.,f U>e neek-band to wh.eb th,:y are sewed, rttake a perpettdteular , 
button-hole, to meet the button on the tuner bindm, o the 
.htrt-neek. Strengthen the lower part of th.s button-hole y 
.,.,u, a bit of hue tape, at Us bottom. '^^ ^'^ '^'^ f / ' 
false eollar, sew to eaeh en.l a string of fnto tape, (about half 

a yard h-n^^) ^^> ^^^- '^^ '^" ^'^^^'' 
Vor a nnilerate-stzed man, the collar-band may measure 

«,m,ewhat more than a .uarter and a balf-,uartor round the 

neck. __ 

A KM.SF. SlllUT-BOSOM.-Takeapiece of yard-wide 
,nuo.atleastanuartera,,dahalf-H..artermlen,th,and.nao 

, ,,„,„. ,,.„n up each sid,, slightly slopmg them toward, he 
s, Iders. ,,ay over in the middle a broad tueV, that wen 

f„W..d or creased ,lown, will be a na.l .. breadth; and close to 
tn both .des. tnake two smaller tucks, each a trie ...ore 

, hatt an t,,,i, broad. Tin. broad or n.iddle tuck, ..US. he sttc^^^^^^^ 
aow,M.e..oa,,e,aly,a.,ditsho,.ldhavearowo,f,,.est,, g 

ueartbebbbd.dge. The other four tucks 1 o.dy ,e 1 d 

,„„,.,, a-., be,n down to keep them m place ttllaber.hty 

: ur„., bv the bn.d„.s pa.,d bottom. At -be bottom 

, bindna; edM,,,e,,, abo,., an ,,ud, a.M a half broad w,.en 

::bbd;w:ktngacress.wayorl,or,. ^'^ -^-";^'-: 

, ..wit fxtreinltv o the hiiUiiiifjr 
crntre oi Us front, and srvvincr to each (Ma mi > 
,,„.„.,. aboet half a yard ,n h.ngth. Htud t e neck wt 
1 ,„o,f,tue„.abou,aninchandahalfbroadwhendou,ded 
• 1: ;.rbap-a,uartera„dal.alf-.,nar.ermleng,h;andncako 
tUi fr.t!^ac,o.s-waybu,t.n-ho,e. between the neck- 

•'" ' ,„ ,,, ,.u.,a. of H,.en, insert a, each shoulder a 

bun in"" aiui ttir .i..n.i I'l. , i ♦ 

' , . . ..^tt.utiu a trian-uhir shape, ahout 

,,,,v S. u on earh eml of Iho m.-k-hmdms 

^, ,,^.,Mnng about half a vaolh..-- 



-^1 



I., 









m 



394 



Tin: HOUSE DOOR. 



These false sliirt bosoms are, of course, always worn with 
separate eoilars tied on above them. 



CHEMISES. — For the body, cut two breadths of yard wide 
linen into l(>n<rtlis of a yard and a quarter each. Tins will 
make a chemise suiliciently lonjr fur a middle-sized woman, or 
for one rather above the middle size. For a small woman, a 
yard and a half quarter will be long enouj^rh. Pfouj ojje ^^j^ 
of eacli breadtii, cut a grore to sew on the other side; thus 
^-ivin<r an e(jua! slope to both. The gores should be little more 
than an incb wide at the top. Pin the selvaoe sides of the 
gores to tlic selvage edges of the linen, lay them ev( nly on a 
bed, and slope the gores upwards at the bottom; otherwise, 
their lower ends will daggle down in peaks. The pieces sloped 
olf the bottoms of the gores must be kept to liee the sieeve- 
lioles. 

Jf the sleeves are to have broad hems, cut thorn a (juarlor uf 
a yard deep. One breadth across the linen will make a j)air 
of sleev(;s, exce])ting the gussets. If they are to be gatbered 
ou an arm-band, a half-cjuarter and a nail will be a suiru-iciit 
depth fur them. Next, cut out the h]eev(-'r„ssrls, alh.vvjn.r 
each a fmger square. A breadth across will make f nir sh-evc- 
gussets and two shoulder-stra[.s. The shoulder-stra])s should 
be half a fmger broad, (when doubled,) and two ihvrvr. in 
lenjrth. 

If you have plain loose sleeves with a broad hem, the che- 
mise, to correspond, should have the wck or top (it hiiw^r 
perfectly straight across, behind and before) simply fac^l vn 
the inside with a fine twilled tapo, so as to f )rm a caso i',r a 
drawing string. If the holloms of the sleeves ar.^ giith.rrd 
intr) arm-bands, the neck or top (,f the chemis(> body m;iy I,.' 
gatherod also into a })>md, made to fit the width acro^,s, from 



MAKING TT P LINEN. 



395 



shoulder to shouliier; in which case, there must be a slit of a 
(juarter of a yard deep, either down the back, or down the t>ont 
of the neck, fasteninnr with buttons. 

]Mak(^ the body of the chemise first; fmishinor the neck, and 
putting on the shoulder-straps, "^rhen have ready tlie sleeves, 
and set them into the sleeve-holes left at the two sides. The 
sleeves should be gathered on the top of the shoulder, .and the 
shouhier-straps felled down upon them, on each side. If there 
are arm-bands, they should sit loosely round the arm. Next, 
take the sloped pit-ces that came oil the bottom of the gores, 
and with them, line that })art of the body that forms the sleeve- 
holes; carrying down the lining about an inch below the lower 
corner of the gusset. This will greatly strengthen the part 
round the sleeve-holes. 

Cut out in the above manner, the whole of tin? linen will 
come into use, and there will be no shapings or clippings what- 
ever. What is called a Ioni( piece of yard-wide linen, will 
thus make Xvn chenus(>s for a woman of moderate size; with 
the addition of an extra yard and a quartrr to comph^e the 
body of ihe last. 

A lady's cli(anise mav he trimmed with thread r-ilging, with 
tettino", or with linen cam!)ric frillincr. 'I'he frilliiur, to look 
neatly, should he very narrow. In fulness, allow it a little 
more than twice and a half the extent of the parts on which it 
is sewed. 

For winter. chemis(^s with long sleeves are very comfortable; 
and are good j)reventives against rlieumatism, particularly 
when made of fine thick American muslin or domestic cot- 
ton. These sleeves may be half a yard and half a quarter 
long; they need not ext(MHl down (juite so far as tlie wrist. 
One breadth of wide cotton, split in half, will make a pair of 
long sleeves, to which s(}uare gussets must be added. \ ou 



I 






U 

•^ r 
% 



Ml 






^■-..(1 



396 



THE HOIJSK BOOK. 



may g-dtlier ilivm at the lower part of the arm, as well as at 
the shoulder; leaving- a amall slit, and setting on a band to 
f\isten with a button. Or you may leave them loose at the 
bottom, merely finishing with a broad hem. In case of illness, 
it is most convenient to have these long sleeves unconfined at 
the bottom, that they may be rolled up above the elbow wiien 
bleeding is necessary. 

MAKING UP FLANNEL.— No one that can afford the 
price of fine flannel, should ever buy it coarse. There is no 
coarse flannel tliat can be washed without shrinking nnicli 
more than if it was fine ; also, it is rough and unpleasant to 
wear, and catches dust and dirt immediately. In purcha^intr 
flannel, look particularly at the blue selvage edire; if that is 
thin, uneven, and coarse, the flannel is not good; but if the 
selvage is stout, fine, and close in its texture, you will find the 
flamiel to wear well. For grown persons, always get tli.- wid(> 
flannel. I'hree breadths will make a petticoat for a woman 
of moderate size; and if the breadths are a yard and a (juarter 
in length, they will allow three tucks, to hv. let out successively 
as the flannel shrinks. Before making it up, flannel slenild 
always be washed ; first dividing the breadths, but do n(.t cut 
off the blue selvage till after the washinfr. 

In sewing flannel, lay the two raw edges one over tin; otlier, 
and run them together along the middle, with slmrt close 
stitches. Then cat-stitch or herring-bone each of tb.' raw 
edges down to the flannel, making both si.les of the seam 
exactly alike, and doing it very neatly. In making a flannel 
I etlicoat, put op(> breadth before and two behind. At th. t.;p, 
leave, exactly in t>ont, a (p.arter r.f a yard quile pl,,in ; pleat 
the rest, except just behind, and there gather it. Hmd it ^^nh 
white linen, and Um^h the pleats with a p w r,f do^o ^ntrhirur 



MAKING UP FLANNEL. 



397 



an inch below the binding. Sew to the binding straps of broad 
twilled tape to go over the shoulders; making the straps long 
enough to allow the petticoat-binding to be a little below the 
waist of your dresses. It is a good plan to have in the back 
part of the petticoat-ldnding two cases, each about a quarter 
of a yard long, nicely stitched, with one end of each left open, 
and an eyelet-hole worked on the outside of the binding at the 
other termination of the casings. Into these cases, run Jong 
strings of twilled tape, in the manner of reticule strings, to 
draw both ways; each string being long enough to cross in 
front, and then qo round the waist and tie behind. The loose 
ends of tlie strings should have a thick rolled hem, to prevent 
tliein, when stretched out, from slipping back into the eyelet- 
holes. V , 

Baby's flannel is frequently bound with white ribbon. Many 
ladi<!S also bind the bottoms of their petticoats with ribbon. 
It looks very nicely at first, but has the disadvantage of shrink- 
ing after it is washed, of turning yellow, and of very soon 
wearing oiT, and requiring renewal. 

Manuel shirts, jackets, \'c., should be made full large at first, 
t<i ;i!l()W for shrinking. 

All the seams and hems of flannel must be made very fl.it; 
tlie hems finished with a row of running close along the edge. 
None of the raw edges should be turned in and i"elle<l down, as 
it rcMiilers them too clumsy. The cat-stitch or herring-lxnie 
should be used instead of felling. The slits must all be cat- 
stitched dewn, and secured at the bottom with a bit of tape 
sewed across. 

in running a tuck, whether on flannel or any thing else, the 
1)( ,st way of retrulatinf its width so as to mak" il all the way 
})reeise!y even, is to cut out a bit of stitTcard exaetly the depth 
you intend to mak«' the tuck, including the regular distance 

34 



1- 









'<" 



I'' 



398 



THE HOUSE IROOK. 



from the hem or from the last tuck helow. This distance you 
may designate by making a notch in the perpendicular edge 
of the card. Keep this bit of card between the thumb and 
finger of your left hand, holding it lightly down on the tuck, 
and moving it along as you proceed. With this guide, it is 
impossible to run the tucks otherwise than straight and even; 
and it precludes the necessity of stopping to measure as you 
iro alono-. Tuckino- with a card, is said to be an invention of 
Dr. Franklin's, who suggested it to his daughter one evening 
when he observed her taking much trouble in trying to get a 
tuck even, by measuring it every few minutes with the part 
alreadv done. 

LADIES' NIGHT-GOWNS.— Night-gowns for summer 
may be made of narrow-corded cambric dimity, of cambric 
muslin, or of striped or cross-barred muslin; each of these 
articles being ell-wide or yard and a quarter, which is the real 
width of what is called six-quarter muslin. For winter, they 
are most comfortable of fine, thick American muslin, the widest 
you can get; but it rarely exceeds a full yard in width. 

W here tiie winters are very severe, night-gowns of wide, 
M hite fiannel are much in use. 

For a moderately tall woman, the length from the neck down 
to the feet, may be a yard and a half; this will generally allow 
a good sized hem at the bottom. In making a night-gowm of 
ell-wide or yard and quarter muslin, two breadths will usually 
be found sufficient for the front and back from the shoulders 
down. Having measured two breadths, cut a gore from the 
side of each, not the whole length, but beginning the slope 
about a (juarter and a half-cpiarter from the top ; so that when 
sewed on, each gore will commence just below the sleeve hole. 
Sew the selvacre edu-e of these aorcs to the selvage or straight 



N IG IIT-UOW N S. 



399 



edge of the breadths ; making tlie two sloped edges come to- 
gether, and rounding or sloping up the corners at the bottom, 
as in a chemise. The two breadths at the top are to be joined 
together, after sloj.ing the shoulders down from the neck. The 
slope down from the top of tlie neck to the top of the sleeve- 
hole, should not exceed a finger length, or half a quarter. If 
the shoulders are long, and the sleeve-holes small, (according 
to the present fashion of day-dresses,) the night-gown will 
drag down uncomfortably, and the upper part will consequently 
tear or wear out very soon. Having cut the shoulder slopes 
exactly even, round out the sleeve-holes ; giving them the same 
scoop or curve on both sides, and allowing them very large and 
easy. The length of the sleeves from the top of the shoulder 
to the hand, .nay be about three-quarters of a yard. A breadth 
of what is called six-quarter nmslin will make a pair of 
sleeves ; .lividing this bre-<«ith down the middle into two pieces, 
and sloping a gore off one side of each piece, to sew to the 
straight side of the other. After these gores are fitted, round 
off the tops of the sleeves, but not so much as for a frock ; the 
front part of each sleeve-top should have a scoop or curve .u- 
v„r,l, tl... s..,op beginning at the sean> and going up along the 
(V„nl of the shoulder. All the seatns in a night-gown shoubl be 
back-stitched and felled ; and the shoulders should be strength- 
ened at the joining-place, by stitching then> down upon broa.l 
.pieces of twilled tape basted underneath. In cutting out the 
„eck, round out the front much more than the back. Cut a sh. 
down the front breadth of the night-gown, a little umre to the 
left side than to the right, so as to allow for a perpendicular 
tuck to be laid over, all down the front, from the neck to the 
,,.,l The length of the sUt .lownwards may be something 
,..s than half a yard. On tl,... tuck-side are to be worked half 
a dozen perpendicular buUnn-hdes. The o.her side ,s to have 



t 

it. 



-.4 






h 



.» iH 



I M 



) ^ 



K 



■ 51 



I 



400 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



a facing of muslin the same breadth as the tuck ; the facing to 
descend an inch or two beiow the slit, so as to strengthen it at 
the bottom. On the faced side of the slit, set half a dozen 
pearl buttons. 

The shape and size of the collar is a matter of taste ; but for 
a plain square collar, you may have a piece of muslin about a 
quarter of a yard deep and half a yard in width ; if for a broad 
hem, it must be larger every way. If you wish the collar to 
sit closely, give it no scoop at the back of the neck, but let it 
be perfectly straight all along, where it is sewed on to the 
gathers. Line the collar, not throughout, but merely about 
half a finger up ; sewing in between the lining and the outside 
the gathers of the neck. Place a button and button-hole at the 
bottom of the collar. The sleeves may either be fmished with 
a wrist-])and at the bottom, or left loose with merely a broad 
hem; the latter way is best for convenience. The collar and 
wrists of a lady's night-gown may be trimmed with frilling of 
•a thinner muslin, or lace-edging. Or, what is much easier 
and less expensive, they may be finished with points or sccl- 
h)j)s alon<r the edge; made i)y laying down a hem on thr ri^//t 
sitlr^ and, with a bit of card cut into the proper shapt% markijig 
the scollops aloncr this hem willi a ])encil, but not so close as 
to make them join each other. Then run the scollops along 
by the pencil-marks, taking very short stitches; and, when 
done, cut them out with sharp scissors, a little distance above 
till* sewing. N(>xt turn them over, so as to make them rirrht 
side out; poking their edges even with the blunt end of a bod- 
kin slipped inside: and then finish by hemming down the 
straight edfre. 

Instead of s( \vin<:r the gathers into the collar, iii(rht"gf)wns 
are very frecjueiitly made with what is railed a yoke; that is, 
a pK CO of muslin cut hias and made dovd)le, and carried over 



Nir.HT-GO WNS. 



401 



the shoulders. The back and front of the gown, and the tops 
of the sleeves are gathered into the yoke, which, to look well, 
should not be too deep. Less than a finger behind, and less 
than half a finger directly in front, will be quite deep enough. 
'Vhe yoke should be corded all round, and have two buUons 
to fasten it in front. 

For very w^arm weather, it is well to have some cross-barred 
muslin ni<rht-gowns, with short full sleeves, gathered on a 
band ; and, instead of a collar, the neck also to be gathered on 
a narrow band. They will be found very cool and pleasant in 
nii^^hts of extreme heat. 

if there is too much fulness in the back of a night-gown, it 
will dra<r downwards off the neck bidiind, and ride up (as it is 
called) at the throat. To avoid entirely this inconvenience, 
night-gowns, when of six-quarter muslin, are sometimes made 
with the back-breadth sloped into two very large gores ; sewing 
them both together by the sloped edges, so as to make a long 
seam up the middle of the back, from the neck to th(> h>et ; the 
small ends <>( the gores coming together at the top, and fitting 
into the collar or the yoke without having r/m/ gathers holiind. 
This manner of cuttiuLMncreases the width at th.^ hotloin of 
the gown. Where the gore-seam terminatr-s at the lower end, 
each gore should be sloped considerably upwards ; otherwist; 
they will bang down in an awkward point. 

Loose gowns of black India silk are v(^ry convenient. Tor 
winter they should be lined all through with slate-coloured 
glazed muslin. 






«: 



nsii 



• -II 



i 



DOUBLE WRAPPERS.— These may be cut oat in the 
same manner as night-gowns. If made (.f calico or gmgham, 
it is best to hav»; both lining and outside of the same materia). 
T!ie seams are all inside, so as to have no raw edges. If 



31^ 






402 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



intended chiefly for comfort, (as all wrappers oug^ht to be,) it 
is best to make them loose all the way down, without attempt- 
ing' any thing like a body ; as is sometimes done by having a 
plain back, with a case at the bottom, set on a gathered skirt 
behind. These backs never look even tolerably well, unless 
they are drawn in tightly to the waist, and worn with a belt 
and over corsets; all which, if the wrapper is designed for a 
garment of ease, will defeat the purpose. 



QUILTKD WRAPPERS.— These, the warmest of all 
WTappers, are extremely convenient to slip on in case of being 
called up in a cold night, or after coming home late in a winter 
evening to wear while preparing for bed ; also for many other 
purposes. They are generally made of dark calico, which 
should hav(^ no white in the figure ; and it is best to have them 
lined with the sam(\ A light-colourpd lining looks soiltnl 
almost inimediattdy ; and a lining of glazed muslin should on 
no account be put in, as noiu^ of tlu^se muslins will bear wash- 
ing; for tlicir cobuir, when wf>t, will run in streams, and spoil 
the outsirlc cf tlic wrapjxT. (iuilt'^d wrappers are genarally 
cut s.) as to \\ rap over very m\ich to one side, ar.d arc left open 
all th(> way down, so as to be (^asily slipped on. TluTe should 
be no gathers or jdeats at the top, eitlier b«>hind or before; as 
the wadding \\ ill make any fulness tin-re uncomfortably clumsy. 
Wy sloping tlu' i)'.u-k from Ittdow tho arm-holes upwards, you 
<-an havo it (jiiitr plain at the place \v!ier<> the collar goes on. 
The collar should \)v a square turn-over, sitting closely to tbe 
i)aek of tlx' neck. The sleeves oui^ht to be long, wide, and 
set inch uj) on the shonldors, with a large easy arm-hole. 

After t!ie wliolr has hecii cut oi;t, and the breadths seweil 
L<jgethcr, lay the uadding (it should be white, thick, and not 
^])V\\) between the lininrr nnd the ont.-ide, and nuilt it in lar.jr- 



NIGHT-CAPE /*iND HOOD. 



403 



diamonds, with long needlefuls of dark-colouied silk. Then 
quilt the sleeves and the collar, and when done put them toge- 
ther. Some persons find it more convenient to quilt all the 
breadths separately. The quilting may be done either in a 
frame or on a large table. 

If made of proper materials, a quilted wrapper may be washed 
as often as necessary, in the same manner as a bed-quilt. - 



A NIGHT-CAPE.—These are very convenient for ladies 
to wear when going to or returning from a summer evening 
party, or upon any occasion when a cloak would be too warm, 
and when a shawl would crush the upper part of the dress. 
The skirts of two h^ft-oft' silk drc^sses will make a night^-ape, 
which should be very large, so as to cover lightly nearly the 
whole of the arms, as well as the shoulders and back. 

Having ripped apart the skirts of two dresses, let tlie silk be 
spnnkled^and ironed smoothly. Then lay the bre^idths of the 
outside together, so as to f.rm an exact square, as large as you 
can get it. Do the same with the breadths of the silk that is 
to form the lining. Having run ail the s.-ams, and pressed 
them with a warm iron, (wetting them lirst with your linger 
dipped m water,) baste tog.-ther the two squares of silk, and 
cut them into an (>xact circle. In the centre^ cut a round hole 
to admit the neck, and then split the front of the cape straiglit 
down; afterwards sloping it upwards a little, where it meets 
'a, ih,. hottom. (%>rd the ed^^ all roun.l, and bind the neck 
uith a band of the same silk. You may fasten it .lown the 
front either with buttons or with strings of ribbon. 



TO MAKE A LADY'S n()(>D.-(.<t a yard and a half 
of wide dark-col. Mired silk f.r the <aitside. an equal quantity 
of li.ht-coloured silk iur the li.iu^. and four vards of narrow 



m 






* "I 






% i 



€V 



I« 



404 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



mantiia ribbon, tbe colour of the lining ; three ounces of eider- 
down, (which you may obtain from a furrier;) four slips of fine 
light bonnet-cane; sewing silk to match the outside; and a 
yard and a lialf of broad rnantua ribbon for strings, also the 
colour of the outside. For the main part of the hood, take 
three quarters and a nail, or an exact square of the silk, to be 
cut after you have laid it bias, as both lining and outside are 
to be cut so. At the part which ascends from the back of the 
neck to the l)ack of the head, cut a slope upwards, about a 
finger in length. Next, hem down upon the lining the outside 
silk along the front edge of the hood, along one of the sides, 
and at the back edge ; and run, at equal distances, three or 
four small double casings, which must go horizontally or across 
the silk, so as to form it into divisions. When these are done, 
take the eider-d$wn, open the end of the paper bag that con- 
tains it, and pour it carefully, and in equal portions, into each 
of the divisions that you run in the silk. When you have got 
all the eider-down in, secure it by runnmg together the side of 
the hood that was left open to admit it. Then put drawing 
strings of the narrow ribbon (the colour of the lining) into the 
casings, bringing out the strings so as to tie at the side and 
not ill the middle. In the last or fiirthest back casinir, run a 
slip of cane about three quarters and a nail in length, and draw 
up the silk full upon it; bending the cane round into a circle, 
and securing it well at both of its ends. Sew up the slope at 
the hind part of the hood, and wliip over with a gathering 
thread the edge of the remaining silk ; drawing it all as close 
as possible, till the whole edge is brought together in one place 
at the back of the head. Next, draw the cases to the fulness 
yea wish, by pulling the ribbon that is run in them; and then 
slip in, between the lining and the outside, thrc.-e or four caries, 
as long as the full width of the silk. These canes go alWr- 






A LADY S HOOD. 



405 



nately with the drawings, arching up, with the silk stretching 
plain over them. Tack the canes here and there to the lining, 
and secure them well by making a little split at each of the 
ends, and sewing them fast to the silk. 

Afterwards, bind with a narrow strip of lined silk, about an 
incli broad, the two sides of the hood where they come down 
on the neck ; gathering them to fit the binding, which should 
be about a quarter and a half quarter in length, so as to fit the 
neck of the wearer and meet under her chin. To the lower 
edge of this binding sew on the cape, gathering it to fit. The 
cape must be made bias; and when lining it, leave one end 
open till after you have poured in some eider down. Of the 
remaining silk make a large bow (edged with a bias binding) 
to go at the back of tiie head, on the place where all the gathers 
meet in a centre. Sew short strings of the narrow ribbon along 
the inside of the neck-binding, so as to meet each of the ends 
of those strings that draw the casings, and tie with them. 
Lastly, sew on the broad strings that are to tie the hood under 
the chin. 

These are the most convenient hoods that are made ; as they 
can be drawn up or let out so as to go over any head, even 
when drest high, or with a cap or turban. And being stufled 
with cider-down, they are so light that they never crush or dis- 
compose any thing that is beneath them. If wadding is sub- 
stituted for eider-down, it must be basted to the lining, and the 
casings run afterwards. 

There should \hi no trimming along the front edge of a hood, 
as it is apt to catch in the hair. 

To look well, the outside and the lining of a hood should be 
so c<iitrasted as to harmo.iize well in colour. For instanee, a 
purple silk outside, with a lining of pale blue, light yellow, 
gold colour, or bufT colour; or a dark brown, or slate-coloured 



1. , 



■ 1 1 



406 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



outside, with a pale pink or light hlue lining. A hlack hood 
may be lined with gray, pale blue, or pink : an olive-coloured 
outside with either light pea-green, pale pink, or light lilac. 

If properly taken care of, and not exposed to rain, a well- 
made hood of new silk will last a great many years. 

A summer hood may be made in the same manner as one for 
winter: but, of course, without eider-down or wadding. 



HINTS ON DRESS-MAKING. — Notwithstanding the 
almost incessant changes of fashion, there are certain general 
rules in the art of mantua-making that never vary, and which 
it may be well to point out for the instruction of those who are 
desirous of making their own dresses. Young persons who 
live in the country will find it very convenient to have some 
knowledge of the manner of accomplishing this business; and 
even in cities there are many who, from considerations of eco- 
nomy, might be glad to understand as much of the art as would 
enable them to cut out and put together at least their common 
dresses : which often, when done by a mantua-maker, cost more 
for the making than the price of the material. 

In purchasing a dress, always g<'t what is culh d a large 
pattern ; that is, an ample allowance of th«^ stufi\ What is left 
will no doubt come into use for alu^ing, mending, renewing 
ciilTs, &c.; or perhaps it may be wanted for a now body. Also, 
if a dress is scantily made, it will never look well, however 
e.xpt^nsivp the material; particularly if the skirt is too narrow. 

In buying silk, you can best ascertain its thickness by hold- 
in«T ;i part of it between your eyes and the liglit. If very stiff, 
it is highly gummed, and therefore cannot wear well, as the 
gum will cause it to cut or split at the j)leats or cr-.uhcrs. Soft 
thick silks, with both sides alike, cut out the most advanta- 
geously, and wear iIk' best. Figured or fiower^'d silks look 



HINTS ON DRESS- MAKING, 



407 



beautifully for a short time; but the sprigs being flossy, and 
on the outside oidy, soon l)egin to wear rough, and the spaces 
between them seem to contract and appear shrivelled. This 
is the case with most silks whose figure is embossed or thrown 
up on the outside. What are called watered silks look, after 
a while, as if they had been literally watered or wetted all 
over. The gros-de-nap silks that are now imported, are so 
narrow, thin, and stif!', that they are rarely worth buying. A 
good double Florence or Marcelline is much better for an eco- 
nomical silk dress. Heps silk of the best quality is soft, glossy, 
and wears well : so does gros d'Afrique, and so does Turkish 
satin, which is a thick, soft, twilled silk, English satin is 
very superior in quality to the French. Satin is very liable to 
fray on the surface, and if not of the best sort, it wears badly. 
For a very lasting dres.s, nothing is more durable than a thick, 
double width, India black satin ; and it is well worth its pri< e. 
The best India senshaws wear well, and are not apt to stain; 
but the colours are seldom handsome, and the texture, though 
thick, is rarely fine. They are yard-widfs and very good for 
lining cloaks and pelisses. In buying i)laid silks, avoid those 
that have any white in them, as they look soih'd almost 
immediately. A plaid dress will make a sliort woman appear 
much shorter. Ladies who are no longer young always bx^k 
best in dark -coloured dresses, whatever may be the material ; 
and wlu^n decidedly old, there is no colour so proper for thein 

as black. 

Ladies with hair inclining to auburn should avoid buiT-colour, 
fawn-colour, and all shades of yellow, pink, or scarlet. To 
them, white, black, slate-colour, dark brown, purple, lilac, blue, 
and ])ea-gre(m are most hecoming. A brunette ought not to 
wear i^ray, r)r lilac, or grass-green. To all persons that are 
very pale, every shade of green or blue is unbecoming. Young 



aI: 






M 






' *j 



408 



THE HOUSE BOOK, 



ladif'S who have dark huir and fair complexions, (a rare but 
beautiful combination,) may wear any colour whatever. To 
very young girls no dress is so becoming as white, particularly 
in summer. In buying white silks or ribbons, choose only 
such as are called a dead white. Pearl-white and rose-whito 
are the worst possible tints to go next the skin, whatever may 
be the complexion of the wearer. There are many shadt s of 
yellow that at night resemble a bad white; and many of 
light green that, except in day-time, look like a bad blue. 
Purples at night may frequently be mistaken for a dull black. 
Lilac is a very bad night-colour. 

IVIerinoes, chalys, and rnousselines de laine, if they are not 
of the very best (piality, soon begin to look rough and soiled, 
catching the dust immediately. In selecting painted muslins, 
chintzes, and ginghams, ask for a little slip as a sample, and 
try how it will wash and iron before you purchase the dress. 
(.'ive it a fair wasbino: in a little warm soa^i-suds, rinse it in 
C(jld water, and then dry and iron it. There are certain sliades 
of light bliKS pink, yellow, and green, that bear wasliing very 
well, but cbang*' immediately when iron(;d. All cotton fal)rics 
arc best f-r having little or no glazing or stifTening. IT the 
figure is n(>arly as distinct on the wrong side as on ihv. right, 
it is an evidence that it is well printed, and not likely to 
wash out, 

Ial)uying velvet, see that the wrong side is of silk, as well 
as llie riglit, and not of cotton, as is fre(jurntly the case. If 
of cotton, it will wear badly, and the colour will rul) off. 
Velvft, to wear well, should be soft as well as thick, and the 
ground W( 11 covered with the ]ule. A velvet dress is very 
liable to crease behind, the marks of the crenses showing very 
j)lainly. To j^n^vt^nt this, let the skirt be very full, and the 
hinii-hrcadths w.ulded and lined. As a velvet dress is never 



HINTS ON DRESS-MAKINO. 



409 



worn in warm weather, the wadding will be no inconve- 
nience. 

The best lining for the skirts and sleeves of dresses is either 
paper-muslin or the stiff coarse book-muslin that comes for the 
purpose. The skirt of any dress that is not to be washed, will 
last much longer, and keep cleaji better, if lined throughout. 
In case it should require turning, a merino pelisse or cloak 
should always have a thin lining interposed between the wad- 
ding and the outside ; otherwise, when taken apart to be turned, 
it will be found impossible, by any process, to get the shreds 
of cotton entirely off. Even washing the merino will not 
remove them. In basting wadding to a lining, use always 
strong sewing silk ; as cotton thread (when the stitches are 
very long) is apt to break after being worn a while, and then 
the wadding gets loose. Take very long needlefuls; and 
when you begin with a new one, tie its end firmly in a knot to 
that of the last. Let the basting stitches go in waves^ up and 
~ down, catching the lining slightly, but securing at equal dis- 
tances every part of the wadding. If you split the wadding, 
lay the split side next to the lining, the glazed side uppermost. 
Ladies would do well to make common cause in protesting 
against the practice that prevails in many of the stores, (we 
should be sorry to find it universal,) of using printed paper for 
wrapping up articles that are purchased there, even when those 
articles are white, light-coloured, and cannot be washed. The 
liability of printing ink to rub off is proved whenever we take 
a newspaper into our hands ; and therefore it is of all things 
the most unfit for enclosing silks, laces, ribbons, &c. Indeed, 
there is nothing whatever that may not be more or less soiled 
by putting it up in newspaper. A constant and liberal supply 
of the soft paper made expressly for wrapping, (and which can 
be purchased by the quantity at a very trifling cost,) ought to 

35 



410 



THE HOUSE BOOK. *^ 



HINTS ON DRESS MAKING. 



411 



be considered by all store-keepers as a part of their necessary 
expenditure ; and to have every article put up in a neat and 
proper manner, and so that it can receive no injury on its way 
home, is a duty they owe to their customers. If every lady 
would make a point of remonstrating, when she sees an article 
that she has purchased wrapped up in a piece of printed paper, 
we think this grievance would soon cease. ^^ 



THE BODY OF A DRESS.— In commencing a dress the 
first thing is to fit and cut out the body-lining, which should 
always be made of good linen ; as linen that is thin and coarse, 
will stretch out of shape when the outside is putting on, and 
shrink very much on being washed. For a white dress, or any 
one that is to be washed, the lining must be of linen that is 
perfectly white; otherwise the brownish tint, however pale, 
will show through. For a dark silk or merino dress, the lining 
may be of fine brown holland. A yard of linen will make a 
body-lining for a person of moderate size, and it must be quite 
smooth when you cut it; not in the least rumpled or creased. 
The person to be fitted, should wear at the time one of her 
best settincr dresses. Over the fore-body of this, let the linfm 
be pinned, placing it bias, mid putting several pins at the shoul- 
ders, sides, and waist. Fold over at the bottom,of the waist, 
two very larger pVeats slanting upward, and diminishing gradu- 
ally to a point as they ascend to the bosom. If these pleats 
are small and narrow, the dress will inevitably be too tight 
across the front; compressing the bosom painfully, and making 
it look fiat and contracted. This is a very common fault with 
dress-makers, who depend entirely on giving an artificial fulness 
to the bosom, by means of wadding. The fore-body leaves 
off at the shoulder-seams, and after it is fitted, the back should 
be done. The lining of the back must be cut straight-way of 



the linen, (not bias,) and it must be pinned very smoothly on 
the back of the dress worn at the time by the person for whom it 
is intended ; allowing sufficient everywhere for turning in, and 
for outlet if the dress should afterwards be found too tight. The 
lining must be allowed longer in the waist than the model dress, 
as it takes up greatly in sewing on the skirt. For a person of 
hollow back and taper form, the side-seams should have a con- 
siderable slope inwards from the arm-hole, to the lower extre- 
mity of the waist; otherwise, the dress will not set well in to 
the lower part of the back, even when made very tight. Where 
the waist is thick, the slope inwards should be less; and some 
figures require none at all. If the back of the person is rather 
round, or the shoulders very prominent, (as they frequently 
become, from habitually compressing the waist to excessive 
tightness,) the body should be cut considerably longer behind, 
80 as to allow sufficient space for the projection of the shoulders. 
When the back is flat and straight, the body need be no longer 
behind than at the sides. Be very careful not to cut the body- 
lining too short either behind or before; for to all figures, a 
short waist is unbecoming. In cutting out the sleeve-holes, 
notch them in front, and allow them sufficiently easy ; particu- 
larly, just under the arms. Give the shoulders a considf^nible 
slope inwards towards the neck; otherwise the dress will set 
too loose about the upper part. Next, with a piece of tape, 
measure the lenjjth of the skirt from the waist behind, down 
to the heels, allowing sufficient for the hem or facing. 

After the linincr has been fitted and cut out over the model- 
dress, take it off and baste it together; also basting down the 
large pleats. Then let it be tried on, and fitted a second time 
upon the corset only. This is the time to remedy any faults 
in tlie cutting out or basting together. If il is found too loose 
about the upper part of the back, slope it in a little more 



412 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



HINTS ON DRESS -MAKING. 



413 






towards the neck. If the top of the front is too loose, slope 
that also a little more in to the neck. If too tight, let it out 
sufficiently, by opening the shoulder-seam. Should the lower 
part of the back be too loose, take it in a little at the side-seam 
under the arms. If the waist is too tight, let it out at the side- 
seam of the fore-body ; or it may be necessary to let out both 
the back and the fore-body. A dress, to fit well, should have 
no wrinkle whatever under the arms, or indeed in any place 
where it ought to be perfectly smooth. A body will frequently 
set badly, not because it is too loose, but from the sleeve-hole 
being so small that the dress cannot be got on sufficiently ; 
causing it to hang off and wrinkle down. When this is the 
fault, the remedy, of course, is to enlarge the sleeve-hole. 
When sleeve-holes are found too tight, cut them away first in 
front and under the arms, and then round them off nicely at the 
back. If left too tight when the lining is cut out, they will 
not be any looser when the dress is finished ; as the ridge made 
by the seam in putting in the sleeve, always fills up whatever 
space is allowed for the sewing. When the fitting of the lining 
is finished, do not, after stitching them down, trim off the inside 
folds of the large pleats, but allow them to remain uncut: in 
case it should, at any time, be found necessary to let them out 
for the purpose of enlarging the body. They can be made to 
lie perfectly fiat, by felling down the folded edge on the inside. 
In making the fore-body of a dress, the silk or other material 
that constitutes the outside, should always be cni precisely bias; 
otherwise, neither the pleats or gathers, nor indeed any part of] 
the front can set well. To do this, fold one corner quite sharp, 
and make the middle of the fold lie exactly even. If the silk 
is not wide enough for ?l perfect bias, join it at the selvage to 
another selvage piece running just the same way. An imper- 
fect bias causes the pleats to twist or warp, and the whole to 



go wrong and unevenly. In cutting the outside of the fore- 
body, see that there is amply sufficient, both in length and 
breadth, for all the pleats or gathers; allowing it wider con- 
siderably at the top than at the bottom. If the dress is of a 
material that is to be washed, the upper part of the fulness 
should be gathered ; as loose bias pleats cannot be ironed to 
look well, or even tolerably; the lower part of a gathered front 
may be stitched closely down. Wherever there are gathers 
on a dress, make them small, and stroke them as neatly as in 
making up linen. The pleats should be laid smooth and even, 
80 tiiatnopartof them may twist or stand off even in the smallest 
degree. Baste or run them down to the lining, concealing the 
stitches of each pleat under the pleat that falls over it. If there 
is to be wadding at the bosom, you may insert it between the 
lining and the outside, before you cord the neck. But the best 
way is to put it on after the body is finished. To do this, cut 
out two circular pieces of wadding, of sufficient size; lay on 
each of them another round piece about an inch smaller in 
circumference ; upon that put a third, fourth, fifth, and sixth 
round piece, each diminishing in size, till the last is no larger 
than a cent. Baste each of these piles of wadding upon a 
circular piece of wliite glazed muslin; notching tiie edges of 
the muslin, and turning them in. Then sew them to the lining 
of the body, so as to have the wadded pieces next the corset, 
and not between the lining and the outside. 

In stitching down the lower part of the pleats, (where they 
(iinuni>h in width towards the waist,) make a second row of 
stitching on the extreme edge of each. A fore-body to set ofl' 
the figure, should fan very much; the .pleats or gathers spread- 
iiift lull above, so as to <rive breadth to the cliest, and narrowing 

CD ' D 

into a very small compass at the bottom of the waist, where 

they meet in the centre. The space on jeach side of the pleats 

35* 






414 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



should set perfectly smooth to the waist, and be quite free from 
wrinkles. 

The outside of the back must be cut straightway of the stuff 
like the lining. For a full back, (they are sometimes in 
fashion,) the lining must be tight; but the outside must be cut 
large enough to allow of gathers at the lower part and shoul- 
ders. A full back gathered into the middle of the neck rarely 
sets well ; the gathers should fan from the shoulders down to 
the waist. Great care must be taken in making a full back, 
not to let it puff out in the middle; a most disfiguring fault, 
and one to which full-backed dresses are very liable. The 
gathers should be small and nicely stroked If the back is 
gathered, the sleeves and skirt should be gathered also. 

It is now usual to have no seams in the backs of dresses, 
except under the arms ; but some persons still prefer having 
the form or shape designated by two narrow bias folds, begin- 
ning just below the middle of the back part of the sleeve-hole, 
and descending to the waist, where at their termination, the 
space between diminishes to about half a linger in width. 
These narrow bias folds are finished with a cording. To put 
them on, baste them down on the back of the dress after it has 
hrrn lined, giving them a slight curve, and then sew them on 
with the lining next to you ; keeping the needle and thread on 
the lining side, and catching the under part of the bias fold as 
you take the stitches through. 

A cording must be let in at the shoulder where the back is 
joined to the fore-body. 

In putting whalebones into the body of a dress, use none that 
are not perfectly straight and even; if in the least crooked, 
ihey will cause a drawing or puckering of the outside. It is 
usual to have a whalebone up the middle of the front; one, or 
perhaps two, at each side of the fore-body, running in the same 



HINTS ON DRESS-MAKING. 



415 



direction as the large pleats in the lining, and extending up as 
far as the bosom, but not over it. Also a whalebone at each 
of the side-seams under the arms, and up the outer edges of 
the back, where the hooks and eyes are. It is not a good way 
to run in the whalebones between the lining and the outside of the 
dress, as their ends very soon wear through the outside. Make 
a case for each whalebone, by sewing a piece of strong twilled 
tape upon the body-lining. Then slip in the whalebone, and 
secure it well at the ends. Finish the lower part of the body, 
with a cording felled down on the inside ; and do the neck in 
the same manner. It must also be corded and faced up both 
sides of the back. Merino and mousseline de laine dresses 
must be corded with thick silk, as the worsted stuff is too 
clumsy, and besides will soon fray off. Velvet and satin also, 
must have silk cording. If you cannot match the dress exactly 
with the proper shade of silk for cording, get the cording-silk 
a little darker rather than lighter. 

The covering- for cord should be cut into longr slips, all of 
them exactly bias; otherwise, it will pucker and not set 
smoothly when sewed on. Where it is necessary to join the 
coverinfT, fold in the end, and lay the piece neatly over the end 
of the piece that you have last put on tho cord. Never use 
black cotton cord, except for black silk dresses. If you put it 
in a mourning chintz, as soon as it is washed the black cotton 
dye will come through the covering of the cord, and run in 
streaks about that part of the dress, so as to spoil it irrecover- 
ably. For a corded facing, cut the covering considerably 
broader, and sew in the cord nearer to one edge than to the 
other, felling down the broad part upon the inside. When you 
sew on cording, hold the dress next to you, and take the stitches 
very short, and close, and quite through. Silk that is bought 
for cording, must be very stout; otherwise, it will soon wear 



416 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



oft^ the cording being generally the first thing about the dress 
that requires renewing. After cutting out a dress, take care 
of all the shapings or scraps, however small, as they may 
afterwards come into use for cording and other purposes. f 

W here the body of a dress is open at the back, each side 
should have a facing at least an inch deep, felled down upon 
the lining. 

In plaid silk or gingham, take care that all the checkers are 
made to match exactly, otherwise the effect will be very bad. 
Wherever there is a join, it is better to cut off a portion from 
one piece or the other, than to alknvthe checks to come wrong. 
A perpendicular stripe of the checker should always go directly 
up the middle of the back, and the cross stripes should be made 
to match precisely. The same accuracy is to be observed in 
making a dress of a striped material. 

In sewing on hooks and eyes, use very strong silk, and put 
th(^ hooks on tlio riirlit sidc^ and the eyes on the left. For the 
sleeves, they should be of the very smalh^st size. If, instead 
of eyes, you work little loops in button-hole stitch, make them 
very stronL*", or they will soon wear out and break. The hooks 
must b(> sewed on tlio inside or lining; the (\yes, or loops, on 
the outside. 



TflE SLP:EVES of a dress.— After you have fitted 
the body-lininqr, tak«' the measure for the sleeves by means of 
a piece of ta])e from the arm-pit to the wrist, allowing a littlo 
extra Irnfth as it will take up in sewintif. If the sl<^eve is tr)o 
short on the inside of the arm, it will give a vcTy awkward 
appearance to the wrist, exposing it bare whenever the arm is 
in the least extended, Ix^sides fr^eling most uncomfortably. 
We havo seen sleevos in which this defect (shortness of the 
under side) was so great, that after the dress wag on it was 






HINTS ON DRESS-MAKING. 



417 



impossible to raise the hand higher than the w^aist, the arms 
appearing as if skewered down to the sides. The remedy, 
when the sleeve is too short, is to put an addition to the cuff 
at the wrist j or else to take out the sleeve at the shoulder, rip 
it down the seam for about half a yard, and then cut a piece 
from each side, which (though making the upper part of the 
sleeve narrower) will add something to its length under the 
arm, when it is set in again. If the design of the sleeve will 
permit, it is perhaps best to increase its length by adding a 
cuff to the bottom, concealing the join under a band. 

If you wish the sleeve to set off very much from the elbow, cut 
it very long on the top of the shoulder, and give it a great curve 
along the inside of the arm. On the contrary, if you desire 
that it should hang straight, give the inside but very little slope. 
In cutting out sleeves, fold over the material into an exact 
bias ; and if not wide enough at the toj), cut a piece to join on, 
making both selvages come together. This seam or join had 
best go at the back of the sleeve. When the material is very 
narrow, it is necessary to join the upper part of the sleeves 
both at the back and front. That side of a bias sleeve where 
the threads run straight-way, must be put front, or next the 
fore-body; the cross-way side must go next the back : this is 
very important to the set of the sleeve. The top or shoulder 
part must be rounded at the back, and hollowed a little at the 
front, where it is sewed into the sleeve-hole. The linings 
should be cut out with t!ie sleeves, and exactly of the same 
size and form. Coloured linings (unless of silk) are apt to 
rub off on the arm. White paper muslin, as it is called, is the 
best for sleeve-linings of a dress that is not to be washed. For 
a dress that may be washed, it is better that the linings should 
be separate from the sleeves, making them of cheap white 
cambric muslin. Gather these extra linings at the top into a 






418 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



HINTS ON D RE SS-M AKING. 



419 



band, and at the bottom into a wrist-band : tbey must not be 
so long as to appear at the slit of the lower part of the outer 
sleeve. Each of these sleeve-linings should have four tape 
strings sewed at equal distances to the binding at the top, to 
be tied to corresponding strings sewed inside of the arm-hole 
of the dress. Separate sleeve-linings are very convenient for 
any description of dresses, as they can he worn or not, accord- 
ing to the temperature of the weather, and can also be washed 
when soiled. If a permanent lining is put into any part of a 
sleeve that is to be washed, it must on no account be of a 
coloured material, as, in washing, the colour will run through 
to the outside. 

After the sleeves of a dress are cut out, the pleats, gathers, 
bands, straps, &c., must all be made and put on before the 
seams are sewed up ; otherwise it will be impossible to g(it 
any of those decorations even ; besides that it is much easier 
to do them when the sleeve is spread out flat, than after its 
sides lire closed up. Where the slit or opening comes at the 
wrist, j)ut on each side a broad facing, felled down upon the 
lining, no part of which ought by any chance to be apparent 
when the dress is on. Make the pleats or jrathers very (;veii 
and reijular, and baste or run them down under the bands. If 
there an- no bands, close-stitch the pleats as neatly as possi- 
ble. If there are bias folds as sleeve-trimmings, let the strips 
of which they are made be cut an exact bias ; and in sewing 
them on to the cord l)y which they are finished, hold the folded 
piece rather loose or easy, and see that you do not get it twisted 
or warped in the slightest degree, otherwise it will look very 
badly. When all the rest of iIh; sleeve is finished, basUe a 
cording '<ili along one side, and tlu'ii hohl the i^d^ro of the other 
side even with it, and run them i)oth togj^her with close short 
stitches, going as n<'ar the cord as possible, in setting in 



the sleeves, baste a cord all round the arm-hole, beginning and 
finishing at the side-seam under the arm ; then close-stitch the 
sleeve all round, leaving the cord to appear as a finish on the 
outside. If you afterwards find the sleeve too long on the 
inside of the arm, open a few inches of the seam about the 
bend of the elbow, remove a piece of the cording, and join it 
again neatly over a few little pleats or gathers. This will draw 
up and shorten the sleeve without being noticed. Allow the 
sleeves full large at the wrists ; for if too tight, they will not 
only feel uncomfortably, but cause the hands to swell and 

I' 

look red. 

You may occasionally wear white sleeves with a silk dress, 
by havirig the silk sleeves so made as to be taken out and 
replaced at pleasure. To do this, have the arm-hole finished 
with a cord and facing, felled down on the lining; and the top 
of tiie sleeve finished in the same manner with another cord 
and facing. In putting in the sleeve, do not back-stitch it, but 
secure it only with close running in small stitches, so that it 
can be easily taken out for the purpose of j)utting in a white 
sleeve finished at the top in tlie sanu^ manner. Another way 
is, to have at the shoulder a sort of epaulet or shoulder-cuff 
(A' the Hilk, st^w(Ml in permanently to the arm-hole, and orna- 
mented with pleats, bands, folds, or whatever you choose. 
Under this shoulder-cutT you can put in cither the long silk 
sleeve, made somewhat narrower than usual at the top, or a 
white sleeve also narrowed at the top. When thin white 
sleeves are v.orn, th(>y should have a short under sleeve, either 
of fine cambric muslin or of white silk. White sleeves with 
dark dresses are almost universally becoming, and in summer 
are very cool, and in no danger of staining with the heat, as is 
the case with silk sleeve^j. Tliey should always, however, 
be made of a thin material. -' 



m 



420 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



HINTS ON DRESS-MAKING. 



421 



There should be gathers only, and no pleating about the 
sleeves of any muslin, chintz, or gingham dress; as, when 
washed and ironed, pleats always get out of shape at the folded 
edge, and look badly. If any part of a dress is too tight before 
it is washed, it will be still tighter afterwards, as being in 
water never fails to shrink it. It is well to shrink the cotton 
cord by scalding it before it is used. 

All coloured dresses, unless the ground is white, should be 
sewed with silk, and not with cotton. 

Belts and their linings must be made cross-way of the stuff. 
If intended to wash, it is best not to cord them at the edges, 
but to fell down the outside over the lining. Between the 
outside and the lining there should be a very stout stiffening 
of thick white buckram. Cut all three straight by a thread, 
V and then baste them together till after the belt is finished. 
Line the flap or end that hooks over, with a piece of the same 
material as the outside. If you cannot find a belt-ribbon 
exactly the colour of your dress, get one that is rather of a 
darker than a lighter shade. 



THE vSKIRT OF A DRESS.^The skirt of a dress will 
not look well unless it is very full and wide ; it should not be 
long enough to touch the ground, nor so short as to show the i 
shoe-binding. For a woman of moderate size, a yard and a 
quarter in length will allow something to turn up for a hem ; 
a tall woman may recjuire a yard and a quarter and a half-quarter 
for a skirt with a hem. A dress made of narrow silk, that 
measures but a half yard in width, will require eight breadths 
in the skirt; but if the material is less than half a yard wide, 
there should be nine breadths. A mousscline de laine, a silk, 
or a satin, of full three-ciuarters widf, will tak(> six brc^adths; 
if but half a yard and half a (iuarltir in width, there must be 



seven. For a three-quarter chaly, six ; for a merino skirt there 
should be three breadths ; for a double-width bombazine, four. 
A common calico or Scotch gingham should have six breadths; 
a yard-wide painted muslin, five ; and a French chintz and a 
French gingham, five. Of what is called six-quarter white 
muslin, there must be at least three breadths ; of what is called 
yard and a quarter muslin, there should be four to make a skirt 
sufficiently full. 

A silk, a chaly, or a bombazine will wear much better, and 
keep clean longer, if the skirt is lined all through; and when 
turned it will look nearly as well as new. The lining should 
be very thin, and may be of coarse book muslin or of paper 
muslin. After the breadths of the outside are all run up, mea- 
sure those of the lining so as to fit exactly, and run them up 
also. Put the lining inside, whip the two raw edges together 
at the top, and baste the lining and outside together along the 
bottom. For the slit behind, at the top of the skirt, hem down 
the outside upon the lining, securing it well at the termination, 
and taking care to turn in entirely the white selvage edge. Bo 
also very particular, in running up the breadths or joining the 
sleeves, to take sufficient hold, so as to prevent even a thread 
of tlie selvage vA^rn from appearing on the outside of the dress, 
as is frequently the case when sesuns are put together carelessly. 
It is well to notch with your scissors the selvage all along ; 
otherwise the tightness of its extreme edge will draw up the 
breadths, and cause them to pucker at the seams. In sewing 
together the pieces for a flounce or a frill to a silk dress, cut 
off the selvages entirely, and whip over the seams ; for if the 
white edge is left on, it will show at every join. , 

If the skirt is ph^ated at the top, turn down an inch or two 

all along, and fix all the pleats exactly even ; securing them 

fur the present with pins, and afterwards bastinjf them. Leave 

36 



422 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



HINTS ON DRESS -MA KING. 



423 



a plain space directly in the front of the fore-breadth. Take 
care not to have a seam on the top of any of the pleats, but fold 
all the seams underneath. The middle of the fore-breadth 
must come exactly to the middle of the fore-body ; and the 
central gathers of the back-breadth must go precisely to the 
centre of the back-body. As these gathers are to be caught 
up, and not whipped with a drawing thread, they cannot be 
made till after the body is sewed fast to the skirt; but enough 
must be left to make them very full. 

Having basted the body to the skirt, stitch or sew them 
along closely with a strong silk thread. In doing so, stretch 
the body v.ry tightly, and hold the skirt rather easy. Then 
put in the gathers at the back of the skirt, catching them to the 
body as you go along, and securing each in its place with a 
second stitch taken over the first. When they are all in, take 
a laro-e needle and a strong thread with a large knot on its end, 
and run it through the whole of the gathers as they stand in a 
row on the inside, and draw the thread tightly. This will 
keep them compact, and make them set out well. If the skirt 
is not lined all through, put a stilTener into the upper part of 
the two l.ark-brradths, and sew it in with the gathers when 
you are making them, whipping it first to the raw edge of the 
outside. This stiflener may be of a double piece of glazed 
wliite muslin, about a quarter and half-quarter in length when 
doubled, and in width the same as that of the two back-breadths, 
unless they are extremely wide. Do not double it exactly \\\ 
half, but leave one of the lower edges a little longer than the 
other. Scollop it all round with your scissors. A mousseline 
de laine,a painted muslin, or any light-coloured or white dress, 
should ni>t have a stilTener sewed in with the gathers, as its 
form will show through. To wear with these dresses, wlute 
stiffeners maybe sewed in with the grathers of white petticoats. 



Before the sleeves are set in permanently, and the body 
sewed fast to the skirt, it is well, after all is basted, to try on 
the dress. The exact length proper for the skirt may then be 
ascertained, and the hem turned up with pins. A silk skirt 
will hang much better for having an even strip of wadding laid 
in the hem at the bottom, provided there is a lining inside; 
otherwise, when the lower edge of the hem begins to wear off, 
the wadding will poke through. The three back-breadths of 
a velvet skirt should be lined and wadded all through, which 
will prevent the velvet from creasing and wearing in streaks. 
When the edge of a silk hem is worn off, bind it with stout 
ribbon of the same colour: or with a new piece of the silk, cut 
bias. If the skirt is found to be too long, rip the hem and turn 
it up broader; or a tuck laid all along the lining near the bot- 
tom of the skirt, will shorten it. The hem should be merely 
run, that the thread may easily be drawn out, if necessary. 

Some pcTSons who do not wish to have their skirts lined all 
throucrh, line only the two back-breadths, that they may set out 
well. Of course, no skirt should be lined if it is of a material 
that is to be washed. 

it; instead of pleating the skirt, you gather it at the waist, 
von niav whip the (rathers and draw them with a thread, except 
just behind ; and there you must make catch-gathers, as in a 
pleated skirt, it is sometimes customary to gage a gathered 
skirt ; that is, to make a second row of gathers about an inch 
below the first, securing them in their place by running them 
on to a tape basted })eneath on the inside. If the sleeves are 
gathered below the shoulder or above the wrist, sew down the 
gathers also upon tape basted beneath. This will strengthen 
them, and keep that part of the sleeve in shape. 

To wear with a clear muslin, or any other transparent mate- 
rial, it is necessary to have an under-dress made at the same 



4U 



THE HOUSK BOOK. 



HINTS ON DRESS-MAKINO, 



425 



time, and to fit exactly beneath the upper dress. The sleeves 
should be short, and the body perfectly plain. Fine white linen 
or lawn under-dresses, have now superseded those of white 
silk, and being much whiter are far more becoming. We 
have seen under-dresses of a skirt only, sewed at the waist to 
the inside of the thin upper-dress, before it was put on. This 
is sufficient with the lining of the body and the short sleeve 
lining. To very young girls, no dress is more becoming than 
a clear muslin. In buying one, see that it has not a blueish cast. 
Ladies who have sense and courage to resist the pernicious 
but almost universal custom of wearing long corsets with 
busks and whalebones, may make their figures look extremely 
well, by a very simple method which cannot possibly interfere 
either with their comfort or their health. It is to buy or be- 
speak corsets made in the usual manner, yet not so tight but 
that the backs can be brought to meet with perfect ease. After 
the corsets come home, draw out the busk and all the bones, 
except the two that go up the back next to the eyelet-holes; 
and which, when they lie flat in the hollow between the shoul- 
ders, are not felt by the wearer. After the bones are withdrawn, 
cut off the lower part of the corsets all round, allowing them 
just long enough to reach about a few inches below the wdist 
of your longest-bodied dress. Then bind the bottom with 
twilled tape. Worn in this manner, short, and without a busk 
or any bones except two up the back, the corsets will feel very 
comfortably, and can in no way affect the health ; while the 
figure will look so well that few persons will perceive that 
the corsets are not exactly in the usual mode. It is the busk 
in front, and the bones compressing the waist all round, (united 
with improperly tight lacing,) that do the injury; and cause in 
so many instances, diseases which embitter the lives of our 
young females, even if they do not eventually destroy them. 



If the neck of your dress is cut down into a point in front, 
or is made surplice, have what is termed a modesty-piece, to 
pin on the front of your corsets. These may be made of cam- 
bric or fine lawn, and trimmed at the top with insertion and 
lace. Their form is triangular, and the top or broad part should 
be cut somewhat of a semicircle, highest in the middle, and 
roundiftg off towards the corners. 



A GOWN-DRESS.--A gown-dress, to fasten in front, with- 
out the assistance of another person, is, on that account, ex- 
tremely convenient, and can be made in such a manner that it 
may easily be mistaken for a frock. Instead of being open 
behind, let the back of the body be made entirely in one piece, 
with a corded bias fold put on up the middle of the back, to 
look as if it covered a row of fastenings. The fore-body must 
be made to open in the middle, each side finished with a cord- 
ino- and a whalebone ; a row of hooks being sewed on the inside 
of the right, and a row of eyes on the right-side of the left. 
These divided fore-bodies set better if the neck is made to 
meet in a point directly in front just above the corset-busk, and 
retiring back towards the shoulders. In this case, the two 
sides of the neck must be cut straight by a thread, which will 
frive the proper slope when the dress is on. If these dresses 
are not worn with a pelerine or a deep collar outside, they 
should have a close-fitting under handkerchief beneath. 

The skirt of a gown dress must be made apron fashion, 
separate from the body in front, and finished at the top with a 
binding of the same. The separation need not extend more 
than a quarter of a yard across the front, for if carried too far 
back it will be difficult to fasten. It opens on the left side 
with a slit not quite a quarter of a yard long, and fastens at the 
top of the slit with a strong hook and eye. The pleats must 

36*" 



426 



THE HOUSE BOOK. 



HINTS ON DRESS-MAKING. 



427 



be laid over on the front of the Blit, and under at its back, so 
as to conceal it entirely. If it shoxUd gape, sew underneath a 
piece of the same material as the dress, carrying it down a 
little below the bottom of the slit. If you wear pockets, you 
may have a corresponding slit on the other side, and they will 
do for pocket holes. 

In putting on a gown-dress, hook the apron first, (the fore- 
body coming down over it,) and then fasten the fore-body. 

If the skirt is gathered, carry the gathers of the side-breadth 
nearly half a finger under the part of the apron that wraps over 
at the slit, otherwise it may gape. 

If the body of this or any other dress is made too short, the 
only remedy (if there is no outlet) is to set in a belt between 
the body and the skirt; after which, it will be necessary always 
to wear a belt over it, to conceal the mode of lengthening. 

If the fore-body of a dress, whether gown or frock, lias been 
found, when finished, to be too tight across the chest, (a 
very bad lault,) and there is no outlet, the best remedy is to 
set a piece up the front, from the waist to the neck. For a 
gown-body, th(Te must be two pieces, one on each side, both 
cut bias, finished with cording, and made to h>ok as smooih 
and well as pobbible. A frock body must be s]dit up, and a 
bias piece inserted, handsomely finished at the seams where 
it is sewed in. If the tightness or narrowness across the 
bosom is excessive, the piece you set in may be cut some- 
what in the form of a gore, widening towards the top. This 
gore maybe ornamented with either silk cord laced across; 
handsome buttons or frogs; piping, k.c.\ or it may be laid in 
small, flat, horizontal pleats or gathers, going across. 



PELERINES.— In making a pelerine, fold the material in 
half, and cut it double. The back must be the straightway of 



the stuff, so as to make it come bias at the shoulders ; other- 
wise, the back of the pelerine will hang off behind, and its 
shoulders will have an awkward draw. Take care to give it 
a sufficient curve in front, down towards the corners. If there 
is not curve enough, it will hang forward and look badly. If 
the stuff is not wide enough to cut the pelerine all in one, take 
a breadth for each half, and make a straight seam up the back. 
Line it with silk or with paper muslin, and have the trimmi no- 
on the edge broad enough to prevent any part of the lining from 
shewing. If you trim it with folds, cut all the strips of an 
exact bias, and join them neatly : seeing that the threads of 
both ends go one way at the joining places. Sew first a covered 
cord all round the edge of the pelerine, and then sew on the 
fold, holding it next you. You may either put on both edges 
of the fold at once, or do first one and then the other. The 
fold should be held easy all along, and particularly so over the 
shoulders or it will hoop. Be very careful to put it on perfectly 
smooth and even, as a fold twisted and warped looks very badly. 
This will certainly be the case, if it is not an exact bias all 
along, or if it is stretched the least in sewing on. 

The triiuming of a pelerine should always be made to 
diminish gradually in width as it approaches the front corners; 
and near the extremity of the corners, it should be put on quite 
plain for a small distance. Pelerines that are to be washed, 
should have no lining, and no other trimminn- than a rulTle, 
which, if of muslin or chintz, may be pleated ; or <lse fluted 
over an Italian iron. However, for a chintz or calico, a double 
fold may be quilled on the edge, to be taken off and washed 
and ironed plain, and afterwards quilled on again. This, of 
course, must be done every time the pelerine is washed. 

In rutting flounei^s and ruffles, the general rule is to allow 
three times as much in length as the space on which they 



■M 



:fVi 



428 



THE HOUSE BOOK, 



are to be sewed. This will make them sufficiently full for 
any purpose. 

To make satin piping for a blond pelerine, or for any other 
purpose, cut some satin exactly bias into slips, two, three, or 
four inches wide, according to the size you wish to have the 
piping-. It must be cut exactly even, and the pieces joined 
at the ends precisely as the threads run. Then fold or roll it 
over, turning in the last edge, which must be run closely along 
with a needle and thread, seeing that not a single stitch goes 
through, so as to show on the surface of the piping. Then lay 
it on the right side of the pelerine, and run it on the wrong side, 
just catching it through the blond as you go along, and again 
taking care that no stitch goes quite through the whole thick- 
ness of the piping. 

All bows made of silk, should be finished with a bias bind- 
ingr of the same. 

In making a pelerine with pleats down the front, the pleats 
must lie the straightway of the stuff, and not bias. If a muolin 
pelerine is made with bias pleats, they will wash and iron to 
great disadvantage, and look very badly; unless the polerine 
IS taken apart, and all the pleats are let out before washing, 
putting them in anew after ironing. 



INDEX. 



Accidents from fire, 147. 
Alabaster, (to clean,) 199. 
Anthracite coal, 129. 
Anthracite coal grates, 129. 
Ants, (to destroy,) 114. 
Aronetta dye, 98. 
Astral lamps, 156. 
Astral lamps, (management of,) 

157. 
Attics, (the) 325. 

,t 
Baskets, 239. 

Beaver hats, (to take care of,) 70. 
Bed-bugs or chiaches, (remedies 

for,) 105. 
Bedding, 308. 
Bed-covers, 31 1. 
Bed-curt.iins, 306. 
Bed feathers, (to wash,) 64. 
Bed-rooms, to clean,) 318. 
Beds, (to make up,) 316. 
Beds, (to warm,) 321. 
Bedsteads, 303. 
Bedsteads, (to put up,) 305. 
Bees, (to keep,) 370. 
Bells, 332. 

Bishop's lawn, (to wash,) 46. 
Bituminous or English coal, 141. 
Blacking, (fine — to make,) 73. 
Blacking that will preserve the 

leather, 73. 
Blacking for stoves, 216. 



Black crape, (to remove water- 
stains from,) 85. 
Black dye, 99. 
Black dye for yarn, 104. 
Black silk, (to wash,) 45. 
Black silk sleeves, (to restore when 

faded,) 79. 
Black silk stockings, (to wash,) 58. 
Black worsted stockings,(to wash,) 

34. 
Blankets, (to keep through the 

summer,) 310. 
Blankets, (to wash,) 34. 
Block tin dish covers, (to clean,) 

207. 
Blond, (to wash,) 54. 
Blue composition, 96. 
Blue dye, 95. 
Blue Aye, (dark,) 96. 
Blue dye for yarn, 103. 
Bobbinet, (to shrink,) 62. 
Bobbinet or cotton lace, (to wash,) 

61. 
Body of a dress, (to make,) 410. 
Bonnet cover, (to make,) 353. 
Bonnets, (gingham — to wash,) 48. 
Bonnets, (straw or Leghorn — to 

clean,) 67. 
Book muslm dresses, (to wash,) 43. 
Boots and shoes, (to clean,) 72. 
Boots and shoes, (French polish 

for,) 74. 
Boot tops, (wash for,) 74. 

4-29 



' 1 



430 



INDEX 



INDEX. 



431 



Brass, (to clean,) 218. 
Brass kettles, (to clean,) 219. 
Bread seals, (to make,) 375. 
Breakfast table, (to set,) 274. 
Brick hearths, (to clean,) 201. 
Brick oven, (to heat,) 145. 
Britannia metal, (to clean,) 207. 
Broken dishes, (to mend,) 291. 
Broken glass, (to mend,) 292. 
Brown dye, 100. 
Brown dye for j'arn, 101. 
Brown linen, (fine— to wash,) 47. 
Brushing a coal, 75. 
Brushes, 241. 
Brushes, (to clean,) 72. 
Buff' colour, (to dye,) 102. 
Buff dye, (excellent,) 97. 
Burn salve, (to make,) 150. 
Butter knives, 254. 



Candles, 167. 

Candles, (comraon mould — to 

make,) 168. 
Candles, (fine home-made,) 169. 
Candles, (dip—to make,) 170. 
Candles, (small wax— to make,) 

169. 
randlesticks,(japanned— to clean,) 

209. 
Candlesticks,(silver and plated — to 

clean,) 206. 
Carpp'j, 173. 
Carpet-bags, 352. 
Carpets, (to beat,) 181. 
Carpets, (bed-room,) 178. 
Carpets, (stair,) 179. 
Carpets, (to sweep,) 180. 
Carpets, (to wash,) 181. 
Carpets, (to extract oil from,) 83. 
Carpets, (rag,) 185. 
Castors, 251. 
Carving, 268. 



Cask, (an old one — to sweeten,) 

226. 
Cellars, 245. 

Cement for alabaster, &c., 293. 
Cement cakes, 294. 
Cement, (common,) 293. 
Cement for iron, 293. 
Chairs, sofas, &c., 2S8. 
Chairs, (to clean,) 198, 340. 
Chair-screens, 153. 
Chandeliers, (to clean,) 212, 
Charcoal, 127. 
Chemises, (to make,) 394. 
Chimneys, 334. 
Chimneys on fire, 146. 
China-ware, 290. 
China, (to pack,) 347. 
Chinches, or bed-bugs, (to destroy,) 

105. 
Chintz, (dark— to wash,) 39. 
Chintz, (furniture— to wash,) 49. 
Cinnamon brown, (to dye,) 100. 
Clipping bags, 196. 
Cloak, (a lady's— to fold,) 77, 
Clothes balls, 91. 
Cloth clothes, (to wash,) 35. 
Clothes brushes, (to «lean,) 72. 

Coal, (anthracite,) 129. 

Coal grates, (anthracite,) 129. 

Coal grate fires, 132. 

Coal stove fires, 139. 

Coal spark, (to extract from the 
eye,) 150. 

Coffee starch, 21. 

Cockroaches, (to destroy,) 109. 

Coke fires, 142. 

Collar, (false one— to make,) 392. 

Coloured dresses, (to wash,) 37. 

Colours, (liquid — to prepare,) 379. 

Combs, (to clean,) 72. 

Combs, (tortoise-shell — to mend,) 
71. 

Cotton comfortables,(tomake,)3i3. 



* 



Cotton stockings, (unbleached— to 

wash,) 59. 
Cotton cord, (to shrink,) 62. 
Counterpanes, (to wash,) 313. 
Court-plaster, (to make,) 381. 
Cow, (to keep,) 355. 
Cream oysters, 288. 
Crickets, (to destroy,) 112. 
Crockery, (kitchen,) 233. 
Curtains, 188. 
Curtains, (to clean,) 189. 



Dairy, 359, 

Dampness in beds, (to detect,) 321. 

Damp walls, 335. 

Decanters, (to clean,) 209. 

Dip candles, (to make,) 170. 

Dining-tables, (to polish,) 197. 

Dinner table, (to set,) 256. 

Dinner table, (to wait on,) 261. 

Doilies, 256. 

Doors and windows, (to stop their 

cracks,) 322. 
Door locks, 333. 
Down feathers, (to clean,) 64. 
Double wrappers, (to make,) 401. 
Dresses, (coloured — to wash,) 37. 
Dress, (book muslin — to wash,) 43. 
Dress, (painted muslin— to wash,) 

42. 
Dress, (a lady's — to fold.) 75. 
Dresses, (to fold for packing,) 347. 
Dress-making, (hints on,) 406. 
Diess, (a lady's— to make the 

( body,) 410. 

Dress, (to make the sleeves,) 416. 
Dress, (to make the skirt,) 420. 
Ducks, (to keep,) 369. 
Durable ink, (to make,) 378. 
Dust, (to remove from a dress,) 86. 
Dyes, (domestic — remarks on,) 93. 

Dyes foryarn, (country m3naer,)101 



Enamelled kettles, (to clean,) 220. 

Entrance halls, 328. 

Entry lamps, 160. 

Evening parties, (hints on,) 280. 



Faded dress, (to bleach,) 26. 
False collars, (to make,) 392. 
False shirt-bosoms, (to make,) 393. 
Feathers, (bed— to wash,) 64. 
Filtering jars, 244. 
Finger glasses, 254. 
Fire irons, (to clean,) 216. 
Fire irons, (to prevent from rust- 
ing,) 217. 
Fire screens, 151. 
Flannel, (to make up,) 396. 
Flannel, (new— to shrink,) 31, 32. 

Flannel, (to wash,) 32. 

Fleas, 111. 
Flies, 112. 

Floating tapers, 163. 

Floating tapers, (cheap ones,) 166. 

Floating tapers, (to renew,) 164. 

Flower stands, 194. 

Folding clothes for ironing, 26. 

Folding a coat, 75. 

Folding a coat for packing, 348. 

Folding a lady's dress, 75. 

Folding a dress for packing, 347. 

Folding a lady's cloak, 77. 

Floors, 335. 

Forks, (to clean,) 213. 

Fowls, (to keep,) 363. 

Front doors, 330. 

Fruit stains, (to remove,) 79. 

Furniture, (black walnut,) 193. 

Furniture, (curled maple,) 193. 

Furniture, (mahogany,) 192. 

Furniture, (rose wood,) 193, 

Furniture, (varnished mahoganj' — 
to clean,) 196. 

Furniture, (kitchen,) 228. 



432 



INDEX, 



Furniture, (to take care when the 
house is repairing,) 343. 



Geese, (to keep,) 368, 

German silver, (to clean,) 206. 

Gingham bonnets, (to wash,) 48 

Gill chandeliers, (to clean,) 212. 

Glass, (broken — to mend,) 292. 

Glass, (to pack,) 347. ^ 

Glass, (to clean,) 210. 

Glass stoppers, (to get out,) 210. 

Gloves, (kid or hoskin — -to wash,) 
61. 

Gloves, (white French thread — to 
clean,) 69. 

Gloves, (gentlemen's — to clean,) 
62. 

Gloves, (wash-leather — to wash,) 
60. 

Glue stiffening, 22. 

Glue, (common,) 295. 

(xlue, (of rice,) 295. 

Gold fish, (to take care of,) 375. 

Gold muslin, (to wash,) 44. 

(ioid ornaments, (to clean,) 70, 

(ioun dress, (to make,) 425. 

(Jiates for anthracite coal, 129, 

(;H':ise,(?uexiractfrom a dress, )80. 

(iiease spots, (to remove from 
books,) 83. 

Giea<:e, (to remove from wall pa- 
per,) 84. 

Green dye, 96. 

(ireen dye for yarn, 103. 

Green colourmg for maps, 379. 



Hard soap, (to make,) 17. 
Hard soap, (fine — to make,) 18. 
Hkts,( beaver — to lake care of,) 70. 
Head-brushes, (to clean,) 72. 
Hearths, (stone— to clean,) 201. 



Hearths, (brick— to clean,) 201. 
Heat marks, (to remove from a 

table,) 88. 
Hints on evening parties, 280. 
Hints on dress-making, 406. 
Hoskin gloves, (to clean,) 61. 
Hood, (a lady's — to make,) 403. 
House-cleaning, (preparations for,) 

336. 
House-cleaning, (finishing,) 342. 
Household articles, (to pack,) 364. 
Hydrants, 247. 



Ink, (black— to make,) 376. 

Ink, (durable— to make,) 378. 

Ink, (red— to make,) 378. 

Ink-stains, (to remove from a car- 
pet,) 87. 

Ink-stains, (to take out of maho- 
g:any.)88. 

Ink-stains, (to take out of a table- 
cover,) 86. 

Ink-stains, (to take out of white 
clothes,) 87. 

Ink-stains, (to take out of un- 
painted wood,) 88. 

Ink, (marking— to take out,) 87. 

Italian or patent iron, 29. 

Ironing, 26. 

Ironing silk, 31, 

Ironing velvet, 30, 

Iron, (polished — to preserre from 
rust,) 218. 

Iron ware, 234, 

Iron, (cement for when broken,) 
293. 



Japanned candlesticks, (to clean,) 

209. 
Japanned waiters, (to clean,) 208, 
Jars, (to purify,) 224. 



INDEX. 



iaa 



Keeping a cow, 355. 
Kettles, (brass — to clean,) 219. 
Kettles, (tea— to clean,) 221. 
Kettles, (porcelain,) 220, 
Kitchen clothes, .240. 
Kitchen crockery, 233. 
Kitchen furniture, 228. 
Kitchen lamps, 163. 
Knife rests, 254. 
Knives, (to clean,) 213. 



Looking-glasses, (to clean,) 211. 
Lye, (to make,) 13. 



Mahogany furniture, 192. 
Mahogany furniture, (varnished — 

to clean,) 196. 
Mahogany tables, (unvarnished—- 

to clean,) 197. 
Mahogany, (to remove ink^spots 

from,) 88. 
Mahogany chairs and so£a.s, 198. 
Lac«, (cotton or bobbinet — to wash,) Maps, (to colour,) 380. 

Marble, (white — to clean,) 199. 
Marble, (coloured — to clean,) 200. 
Marble, (cement for,) 293. 
Marabout feathers, (to clean,) 64. 
Marking ink, (to take out,) 87. 
Marseilles quilt, (to wash,) 313. 
Mattrasses, (to renew,) 66. 
Mats for the table, 253. 
Matting, (straw,) 184. 
Merino dresses, (to wash,) 41. 
Mice, 117, 
Mildew, (to take out of linen,) 88. 



61. 

Lace, (thread— to wash,) 52, 63. 
Lace, (gold — to clean,) 45. 
Lace veil, (black — to wash,) 56, 
Lace veil, (white — to wash,) 55, 
Lamps, (astral,) 156. 
Lamps, (astral — to manage,) 157. 
Lamps, (chamber,) 162. 
Lamps, (entry,) 160. 
Lamps, (kitchen,) 163. 
Lamps, (night,) 165. 



Lamp oil, 155. 

Lamp oil, (to take out of a carpet,) Mirrors, 300 

83. Mixture for stains, 91. 

Lamp oil, (to take out of a floor,) 82. Moths, 115. 

Lamp oil, to extract from a dress,) Mould candles, (to make,) 168. 



81. 
Lamp oil, (to extract from a sofa,) 

82. 
Lamp rug!!, 161. 
Lanterns, 163. 
Laundry work, 7. 
Lawn, (bishop's—to wash,) 46. 
Leghorn bonnets, (to clean,) 67. 
Linen, (to make up,) 386. 
Linen, (mildewed— to restore,) 88. 
Linen, fscorchcd~to restore,) 89. 
Linen, (stained— to restore,) 90. 
Linen window-blinds, 190. 
Linen, (to whiten,) fi9. 



Mourning chintz, (to wash,) 39. 
Mousselinc de laine, (to wash,) 41. 
Mud, (to take out of a dress,) 86. 
Muslin, (book — to wash,) 43. 
Muslin, (gold or silver — to wash,) 

44. 
Muslin, (painted — to wash,) 42. 
Muslins, (small — to do up,) 49. 
Musquitoes, 112. 



Nankeen, (to wash,) 48, 
Nankeen colour, (to dye,) 99. 
Kapkinc!, 255. 



37 



434 



I N D E X. 



New tin, (to remove its taste,) 225. 
New wood, (to remove its taste,) 

Night gowns, (to make,) 398. 
Night capes, (to make,) 403. 
Nurseries, 323. 



Oi] cans, (to clean,) 155. 

Oil cloths or painted carpets, 183. 

Olive dye, 100. 

Orange dye, 102. 

Ornaments of gold, (to clean,) 70. 

Oysiers, (with cream,) 288. 

Oyster patties, 289. 



Polishing diniFig-t.t^les, 197. 
Porcelain kettles, 220. 
Poultry, (to draw,) 272. 
Pounce, (to make,) 381. 
Preparations for house-cleaning, 

336. 
Preparing rooms for summer, 344. 
Pumps, 247. 
Putty, (old—to soften,) 292. 



Quilts, (to wash,) 312. 
Quilts, (Marseilles — to wash,) 313- 
Quilts, (silk—to make,) 314. 
Quilted wrappers, 402. 



Packing a carpet bag, 'Xrl. 
Packing glass and china, 347. 
Packing household articles, 354. 
Packing a large trunk, 349. 
Paint, (to clean,) 339. 
Paint, (to remove from a dress,) 8 1. 
Paint, (to remove from a coat,) 85. 
Paint, (to remove its smell,) 343. 
Painted muslin, (to wash,) 12, 
Pantry, 2;'»!. 

Paper, (to n;;ike tran'^paront,) 380, 
Paper window-blinds, 190. 
Paste, (common — for paper,) 29 1. 
Paste, (cold,) 295. 
Paste, (rye,) 295. 
Pearls, (to clean,) 71. 
Pelerines, (to make,) 426. 
Pencil marks, (to preserve,) 381. 
Pictures, 166. 
Pink dye, 94. 
Phials, (to wash,) 211. 
Plate mixture, (iwir,) JO 1. 
Plate rnixtuio. (;in'-lli<-i ,) 201. 
Plated candlesticks, (to flean,) 20(1. 
Plated ware, (to olorni,) 205. 
P]:i1ef i,, i i.ihf-^. "■- w^ih.' i^23 



Rabbit skins, (to prepare,) 120. 
Rag carpets, 185. 
Rats, 117. 

Rrcr;)tafles for dresse*:!, 298. 

RcfrimTitor-, 2-13\ 

Red dyo, 91. 

Red live for yarn, 103. 

Red rubnning for maps. 379. 

Ik mark.-; on bed-chambers, 29G. 

RoiiKiik-. on domestic d\'es, 93. 

KeiDHikK nil (is'oing yam, 101, 

Remaik«; ori kitchen^, 'JJ7. 

Hcinark's on sfWHi^-wo! k , 3S2. 

Remedies for sling'^, v*vr., 1 Hi. 

Rcniu't--, (to jircparc,) .'>()2. 

R('Ur\)!cs, (travelling,) 35i. 

Kil)t/on<, ( lo wasii,) 5t). 

Rice ghie, 295, 

Rocking-chairs, 191, 

Rush lights, 170. 

Rust, (lo take out of steel,) 217. 



Sifc, 2) 1. 

Salmon colour, (to k^yc/) 9'^. 

•^a;^ ■; bmon, 92, 



INDEX. 



435 



Satin shoes, (white — to clean,) 91. 

Scorched linen, (to Restore,) 89. 

Scrap jars, 195. 

Sciubbing floors, 341. 

Setting the dinner table, 256. 

Sewing, 382. 

Silk, (black — to wash,) 45. 

Silk sleeves, (black — to restore,) 79. 

Silk, (to iron,) 31. 

Silk, (to keep,) 90. 

Silk quilt, (to make,) 314. 

Silver, (to clean,) 201. 

Silver, (German — to clean,) 206. 

Shirts, (to fold,) 3 19. 
Shirts, (plain ones — to make,) 388. 
Shirts with bosom pieces, 390. 
Shirts open at the back of the 

neck, 391. 
Shirt bosoms, (f.ihe— to make,) 393. 
Shirt collars, (false— to make,) 392. 
Short lijinds for windows, 191. 
Shnnkiji:; boijlanet, 62. 
Shrinking cottor; curd, 6-2. 
S^hrinking new flannel, 31, 32. 
Skirt of a dress, (to make,) 120. 
Skylights. 327. 
Slate colour, (to dvc) 90. 
Slcr^a-sof a diess, (to make,) \\Cy. 
Mop (uifkcts, (to {)unfy,) 22 I. 
Small inu^iuis, (to wash.) 19. 
Small wax candles, (to make,) 169. 
Soap fit, (to keep from moulding ) 

1 1, 15. 
Soa{.,(cotnrnon hard— to make,) 17. 
Soap, (fine hard— to make,) IS. 
Soft soap, (to make,) 15. 
Soda, (fur wasiiing,) 2 1. 
'^'jfa^- and nirno.r,(n} (.[laii-.. !9s. 
^ H tik. (!o t\fr;irt fi,i(n t!ie tyr ) 

150. 
Spermaceti, (i,, t,.ke ,,nf,) 85, 
Spots of tai and tu: jrnt iiie, ft" !C- 
mu'. e.) SI. 



Sprinkling and folding clothes, 26. 

Squirrel-skins, (to prepare,) 120. 

Stains, (to remove from black 
crape,) 85. 

Stains, (to remove from table- 
linen,) 78. 

Stains, (to remore from silk,) 79. 

Stains, (to remove from silver 
spoons,) 204. 

Stains of stove pipes, or soot, S3. 

Stair carpets, 179. 

Stair rods, (to clean,) 219. 

Starch, (common — -to prepare,) 20. 

Starch, (gum-aiabic,) 21. 

Starch of home manufacture, 20. 

Starch made with collee, 21. 

Steel, (to remove its rust,) 217. 

Stockings, (black worsted — to 
wa<h,) 3 1. 

Stocking's, (black silk — to wash,) 

Stockings', (wliite silk — to wash,) 

57. 
Stocking*!, (silk — to tinge pink,) 

68. 
Stock ii.gs, (French thread — to 

wash,) 59. 
Stockings, ;unMo;iclied cotton — to 

wash,) 59. 

Stockings, (woollen — to wash,) 33. 

Stone hearths, (to clean,) 201. 

Stf.pping door and window crack«i, 
•J) ) 

Stoio-rouins, 218. 
Stoves, (blacking for,) 216. 
Stoves, ( close,) 1 25. 
SSuv fs fur coal, 1 25. 

S!(.;\ es : Jl Wo j.l, I 27. 

S'taw bonnets, (to cir j:,.;. 67. 
Ml aw tr.atiiip^, 1 ^ 1. 
Stipper paitn'., 2-^7. 



Sivansdown capes n;- 



t.op 



(to 



clean,) (i'6> 



436 



INDEX. 



Table, (breakfast — to set,) 274. 

Table, ( 'Inner — to set,) 256. 

Table, (to wait on,) 261. 

Table-linen, 255. 

Table mixture, 197. 

Tapers, (floating,) 163. 

Tapers, (floating— very cheap,) 

166. 
Tapers, (floating — to renew,) 164. 
Tar or turpentine spots, (to re- 
move,) 81. 

Tea-kettles, (to clean,) 221. 

Tea-table, (to set,) 279. 

Tea things, (to wash,) 222. 

Tea urns, (to clean,) 208. 

Tin dish-covers, (to clean,) 207. 

Tins, (common — to clean,) 208. 

Tin, (new~to remove its taste of 
rosin,) 225. 

Tin ware, 236. 

Thread gloves and stockings, (to 
wash,) 59. 

Toilet tables, 300. 

Tortoise shell, (to clean, and mend,) 
71. 

Trunks, (to pack,) 349. 

Turkeys, (to keep,) 367. 



Venetian blinds, 190. 
Vials, (to wash,) 211. 



y 



Waiting on table, 261. 
Walls, 171 



Washing bed-feathers, 64. 
Washing with soda, 24. 
Washing white clothes, 22. 
W^ashing-stands, 301. 
W^ax, (to take out of cloth,) 85. 
Wax candles, (small ones — to 

make,) 169. 
Wax-polish, (for furniture,) 197. 
Whiting, (very fine,) 205. 
Whitening clothes, 25. 

White satin shoes, (to clean,) 91. 

White-washing, 338. 

Wilmington clay balls, 92. 

Window cracks, (to stop,) 322. 

Window-blinds of linen, 190. 

W^indow blinds of paper, 190. 

Window panes, (to mend,) 292. 

Window washing, 340. 

Wood, 121. ; 

Wood fires, 122. 

W^ood stove fires, 123. 

W^ooden ware, 238. 

Woollen shawls, (to wash,) 37. 

Woollen stockings, (to wash,) 33. 

Woollen table-covers, (to wash,) 
36. 

Woollen yarn, (to wash,) 34. 

Worsted stockings, (bl.tck — to 
wash,) 34, 

Wrappers, (double — to make,) 401 . 

Wrappers, (quilted — to make,) 402. 



Yellow dye, 95. 

Yellow dye for yarn, 103. 



