
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



► 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

Restored with fimds 
provided by 
Elizabeth Borst White 



COOK'S OWN BOOK, 

HOUSEKEEPER'S REGISTER. 

BZVXG BBOlIPTf FOft 

COOKING OF EVERY KIND OF MEAT, FISH, AND T<fWL | 

AND 
XAKIHO STIBT 60BT OF 

SOUP, GBAVY, PASTBY, PRESERVES, AND ESSENCES. 

WITH ▲ OOSfPLITB 

SYSTEM OF CONFECTIONERY; 

TABLES FOR MARKETING ; 

▲ 

BOOK OF CARVING; 

AMD 

MISS LESLIE'S SEVENTY-FIVE RECEIPTS 

FOB 

PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS. 



BY 

jL BOSTON bovsjbkkb: 



BOSTON : 

MUNROE AND FRANCIS. 

KBW.YORK : CHARLES S. FAAlfOSS. 

1840. 



i 



r /I • c- 



Eateittd, aceotdinp to act of CongieM, in the foftr 1838, hr 

MUHROB &, FrAHCIS, 

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 



*. 



iLi 



PREFACE. 



Tub cook exercises a greater power over the public kealth and 
welfare than the physician, and if he should be a charlatan in his art, 
^«s! for his employers. Hitherto, or until of late years, Uie oo«k 
has had to educate himself, while the physician appropriates all the 
knowledge of antiquity, and of erery succeeding age ; his individual 
eases are all classed according to general princii>les, while the rules 
that have regulated the preparation of our food, have been discordant 
and unnatural. In the present age, indeed, cookery has been raised 
to the dignity of an art, and sages hayo given their treatises to the 
world. V^ry has a monument in the cemetery of P^e La Chaiae, 
among the tombs of warriors, poets, and philoso|Aers, recording of 
his life that <it was consecrated to the useful arts.' Virgil however, 
writes that the best delights of Elysium were showered upon those 
who received wounds for their country, who lived unspotted priests, 
who uttered verses worthy of Apollo, or who, like Vdry, consecrated 
their lives to the useful arts. On the utilitarian principle the cock 
should be much elevated in public estimation, and were he to form a 
strict alliance with the physician, the patriarchal ages would return, 
and men would die of nothing but sheer old age. 

After insanity, the most grievous affliction of Providence, or rather 
of improvidence afid imprudence, is Dyspepsy : a malady that under 
different names has decimated the inhabitants of civilized conn tries, 
and of almost all countries, in which man is a < cooking animal/ To 
the dyspeptic, the sun has no cheering ray, the air no elasticity or 
balm ; the flowers are without fragrance, music is without inelndy, 
and beauty without charms. Life is a blank ; affection has [osi its 
power to soothe, and the blessings scattered by Providence, are con- 
verted into ministers of torment. Food becomes a bane ; tlie very 
staff that supports life, gives the flagellation that renders life s. curse. 
All that can deUght is lost,-^but all that can depress and sting, has a 
tenfold activity and power. 




IT PREFACE. 

The dyspeptic's < May of life, has fallen into the sear, the yellow- 
leaf.' Sleep that should visit every pillow but that of guilt, is to him 
no friend ; if he slumbers, it is to dream, like Clarence, of hideous 
forms of suffering, and to wake to their reality. This is but a faint 
picture of Dyspepsy . 

<IIer gloomy presence saddens all the scene, 
Shades every flower and darkens every green. 
Deepens the mormur of the falling floods. 
And breathes a browner horror on the woods.* 

This malady is beyond the science of the physician, but within the 
art of the cook ; in the proverb, Doctor Diet is ranked above Doctor 
Quiet and Doctor Merryman ; though all are good. 

The late Mr. Abemethy referred almost all maladies to the stom- 
ach, and seldom prescribed any remedy but a proper diet. This it is 
the province of the cook to provide ; and the design of this book to 
indicate. The work is not designed to spread a taste for pernicious 
luxuries: and every recipe has been sanctioned by custom. The 
responsibility of the cook is lightened, and his duty facilitated. He 
has here a dictionary of reference, an encyclopedia of his art. The 
details are full, and the authority is perfect. There were various 
works of merit that it was useful for the cook to study, but here are 
collected the best parts of all, with the convenience of alphabetical 
arrangement, and in the compass of a moderate volume. If it is a 
sin to waste the best gifts of Providence, it should be little less than 
a felony to spoil them. When we have collected the materials for a 
house, we never trust the building to an unskilful architect : yet we 
are often obliged to commit the preparation of our feasts as well as 
of our common food, to agents without knowledge. This knowledge 
Is now supplied. 

More than health depends on the proper preparation of food : our 

very virtues are the creatures of circumstances, and many a man has 

hardened his heart, or given up a good resolution, under the operation 

of indigestion. Who that knows the world, ever solicits with confi- 

I denee a friendly or charitable act of another before dinner. 

The iidturiil and moral world are reciprocally dependent ; soul and 
body are so linked, that when one loses its tone the other is deprived 
of its equauimity. The system of morals therefore becomes identi- 
iied with thut of cookery, and the great English moralist, who was 
)eam4?cl in both systems, thus spoke of the connexion ; 'Some peo- 
ple* said Doctor Johnson, *have a foolish way of not minding, or of 
pretendiuff not to mind, what they eat. I for my part mind my belly 
^^^^ve^studiinisly, and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who 
^^^H^Mfekft mind his belly will hardly mind any thing else.' 



f 



PftKFACC. V 

It has beer, the study of the author, to make every recipe plain^ 
and the proportions certain ; little is left to discretion, that could be 
reduced to measure. The system of confectionery is perfect ; and if 
strictly followed every cook may become a first rate confectioner. 
Labor, care, and expense have been bestowed upon the work, and the 
publishers feel so secure of its merit, and of the public want of such a 
book, that they have caused it to be stereotyped. This would have 
been hazardous with a novel or ahnost any literary work ; but the 
number of those who eat is far greater than of those who read. A 
good book few can estimate ; all can eujoy a good dinner, and the 
publishers anticipate a proportionate encouragement. 

Having devised this work for families, we hope that it may offend 
no one, that we give a word of counsel to domestics : our book may 
be every way good, yet will its usefulness he much impaired if do- 
mestics are not docile and faithful. 

We have fortunately, in this country, but one class of people: al^ 
are free, and all are politically equal. Our domestics are in New 
England designated as help, to indicate that they are the equals, and 
assistants, rather than the inferiors of their employers. Yet the 
feeling of independence may be carried too far, and it may be ungra- 
ciously expressed. There is no disgrace, and there should be no 
shame in filling well a subordinate station ; the hired ploughman, 
maid, or cook are not, in an offensive sense, any more the servants of 
their employers, than the merchant and the lawyer. All these engage 
to perform certain services for an equivalent, and it is the duty of all 
to do them faithfully. 

The number of domestics is very large — perhaps the average is 
five to four families — ^and it may be even greater. Yet, unfortunate- 
ly for their welfare, interest, or character, they are almost couhtantiy 
shilling, and in few families do they remain long. In England, a 
good domestic is often provided for during life, and it is a desirable 
situation. It might be so here, if our domestics would strive to ac- 
commodate themselves to their situation. There is hardly a family, 
in which a kind, respectful, and faithful domestic might not be regained 
for yeais; and at the best wages. Here then is a home, comfort, and 
friends. Yet the greater number are contented to live a few months 
in a place, till the best years of life have slipped away, without pro- 
vision for age, and without friends, or home. The proverb of the 
rolling stone contains the best lesson for domestics. 

Service in any department is no sacrifice of independence. A 
domestic is in all things as free as any other class, but it is a 
bad kind of independence that would lead one, when desired to do it 



thing ]Q the line of a common employment, to do it ungraciously 
and rather as an irksome or unjust task, than as a duty* 

Minor vexations, frequently repeated, are equal to greater individ- 
ual calamities; as many small enjoyments constitute much of the 
pleasures of life. Around the social board every member of the fam- 
ily is collected thrice at least in twenty-four hours. Thither the 
head of the family returns from the labors or cares of his business to 
recruit his strength and to relax his mind. If he return to a table 
constantly and invariably ill spread ; to a dinner to which he could 
invite no friend, and in which he can have no enjoyment; a cloud 
will gather on the calmest brow, and a feeling of dissatisfaction may 
be extended to other things. It is not beneath the solicitude of a 
good wife, who would not suffer any abatement in the affection of 
which she, is the object, diligently to study this book, and constantly 
to provide a neat and well dressed repast. 

Boston, March, 1832. 




MANAGEMENT OF FAMIUES. 



In domestic arrangement the table is entitled to no small share 
of attention, as a well conducted system of domestic management 
is the foundation of every comfort; and the respectability and 
welfare of families depend in a great measure on the prudent 
conduct of the female, whose provmce it is to manage the domes- 
tic concerns. 

However the fortunes of individuals may support a large expen*- 
diture, it will be deficient in all that can benefit or grace society, 
and in every thing essential to moral order and ratiopal happiness, 
if not conducted on a regular system, embracing all the objects 
t>f such a situation. 

In domestic management, as in education, so much must depend 
on the particular circumstances of every case, that it is impossible 
to lay down a system which can be generally applicable. 

The immediate plan of every family must be adapted to its own 
peculiar situation, and can only result from the good sense and 
nearly good habits of the parties, acting upon general rational 
principles. 

What one family is to do, must never be measured by what 
another family does. Each one knows its own resources, and 
should consult them alone. What might be meanness in one, 
might be extravagance in another, and therefore there can be no 
standard of reference but that of individual prudence. The most 
fatal of all things to private families, is to indulge an ambition to 
make an appearance above their fortunes, professions, or business, 
whatever these may be. ^ 

The next point, both for comfort and respectability, is, that all 
the household economy should be uniform, not displaying a parade 
of show in one thing, and a total want of comfort in another. Be- 
sides the contemptible appearance that this must have to every 
person of good sense, it is productive of consequences, not only of 
present, but future injury to a family, that are too often irreparable. 

In great cities in particular, how common is it that for the vani- 
ty of having a showy drawing-room to receive company, th<5 family 
ure confined to a close back room, where they have scarcely either 
w or light, the want of which must materially prejudice their 
liealth. 

To keep rooms for show, where the fortune is equal to having 
« house that will accommodate the family properly, and adttiit of 
this also, belongs to the highest sphere of life ; but in private fam- 
ilies, to shut up the only room perhaps in the house which is really 
wholesome for the family to live in, is inflicting a kind of lingering 



flU FAMILY MAKi.O£M£NT. 

murder upon the inmates ; and yet how frequently this considera*' 
tion escapes persons who mean well by their family, but who still 
have a grate, a carpet, and chairs, too fine for every day's use. 

Another fruit of this evil is, seeing more company, and in a 
more expensive manner than is compatible with the general con- 
venience of the family, introducing with it an expense in dress, 
and a dissipation of time, from which it suffers in various ways. 

Social intercourse is not improved by parade, but quite the 
contrary; real friends, and the pleasantest kind of acquaintance, 
those who like to be sociable, are repulsed by it. It is a failure 
therefore every way — the loss of what is really valuable, and an 
abortive attempt to be fashionable. 

A fundamental error in domestic life of very serious extent, 
involving no less the comfort than the health of the family, arises 
from the ignorance or mistaken notions of the mistress of the house 
upon the subjects of diet and cookery. 

The subject of cookery is thought by too many women to be 
below their attention, or, when practically engaged in, it is with 
no other consideration about it than, in the good housewife's 
phrase, to make the most of every thing, whether good, bad, or 
indifferent; or to contrive a thousand mischievous compositions, 
both savory and sweet, to recommend their own ingenuity. 

If cookery is worth studying, as a sensual gratification, it is 
surely much more so as a means of securing one of the greatest of 
human blessings — good health ; and we cannot quit this part of the 
subject of domestic management without observing, that one cause 
of a great deal of injurious cookery originates in the same vanity 
of show that is productive of so many other evils. In order to 
set out a table with a greater number of dishes than the situation 
of the family requires, more cookery is of\en undertaken than 
there are servants to do it well, or conveniences in the kitchen for 
the purpose. Thus some viands are done before they are wanted 
for serving up, and stand by spoiling, to make room for others; 
these are again perhaps to be succeeded by something else ; and 
too often are things served up that had better be thrown away, 
than to be used for food. 

The leading consideration about food ought always to be its 
whfcrtesomeness. Cookery may produce savory and pretty looking 
dishes without their possessing any of the qualities of food. It is 
at the same time both a serious and ludicrous reflection that it 
should be thought to do honor to our friends and ourselves to set 
out a table where indigestion and all its train of evils, such as 
fever, rheumatism, gout, and the whole catalogue of human dis- 
eases lie lurking in almost every dish. Yet this is both done, and 
taken as a compliment. We have indeed the " unhought grace 
of polished society, where gluttony loses half its vice by being 
stripped of its grossness." When a man at a public house dies of 
a surfeit of beef steak and porter, who does not exclaim, what a 
beast! 



COOKING UTENSILS. |x 

How infiDitely preferable is a dinner of far less show where 
nobody need be afraid of what they are eating! and Buch a one 
wiii be genteel and respectable. If a person can give his friend 
only a leg of mutton, there is nothing to be ashamed of in it, pro- 
vided it is a good one, and well dressed. 

A house fitted up with plain good furniture, the kitchen fur- 
nished with clean wholesome-looking cooking utensils, good fires, 
in grates that give no anxiety lest a good fire should spoil them, 
clean good table linen, the furniture of the table and sideboard 
good of the kind, without ostentation, and a iw ell-dressed plain 
dinner, bespeak a sound judgment and correct taste in a private 
family, that place it on a footing of respectability with the first 
characters in the country. It is only the conforming to our sphere, 
not the vainly attempting to be above it, that can command true 
respect. 

COOKING UTENSILS. 

The various utensils used for the preparation and keeping of 
food are made either of metal, glass, pottery ware, or wood; each 
of which is better suited to some particular purposes than the 
others. Metallic utensils are quite unfit for many uses, and the 
knowledge of this is necessary to the preservation of health in 
general, and sometimos to the prevention of immediate dangerous 
consequences. 

The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels 
are silver, copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is prefera- 
ble to all the others, because it cannot be dissolved by any of the 
substances used as food. Brimstone unites with silver, and forma 
a thin brittle crust over it, that gives it the appearance of being 
tarnished, which may be accidentally taken with food; but this 
is not particularly unwholesome, nor is it liable to be taken often, 
nor in large quantities. The discoloring of silver spoons used 
with eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs. — Nitre or 
saltpetre has also a slight effect upon silver, but nitre and silver 
seldom remain long enough together in domestic uses to require 
any particular caution. 

Copper and brass are both liable to be dissolved by vinegar, 
acid fruits, and pearl-ash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, 
and great caution should be used to prevent accidents of the kind. 
Vessels made of these metals are generally tinned, that is, lined 
with a thin coating of a mixed metal, containing both tin and lead 
Neither acids, nor any thing containing pearl-ash, should ever be 
sufiTered to remain above an hour in vessels of this kind, as the 
tinning is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom perfect 
over the surface of the copper or brass. 

The utensils made of what is called block tin are constructed 
of iron plates coated with tin. This is equally to be dissolved as 
the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwhole- 



some sobstance, if even a portion of it should be dissolved and 
mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for 
the construction of culinary utensils ; and the objection to its more 
extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires 
more cleaning and soon decays. Some articles of food, such as 
quinces, orange peel, artichokes, &c. are blackened by remaining 
in iron vessels, which therefore must not be used for them. 

Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be 
used for milk and cream, if it be ever likely to stand till it become 
flour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted 
meats. 

The best kind of pottery ware is oriental china, because the 
glazing is a perfect glass, which cannot be dissolved, and the 
whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. 
Many of the English pottery wares are badly glazed, and as the 
glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid put- 
ting vinegar, and other acids iiito them. Acids and greasy sub- 
stances penetrate into unglazed wares, excepting the strong stone 
ware ; or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence 
give a bad flavor to any thing they are used for afterwards. They 
are quite unfit therefore for keeping pickles or salted meats. 
Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery ware but 
oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits 
Of it. 

Wooden vessels are very proper for, the keeping many articles 
of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. 
If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a. wooden 
cask or tub, it is sur« to taint the vessel so as to make it liable to 
produce a similar effect upon any thing that may be put into it in 
future. It is useful to char the insides of these wooden vessels 
before they are used, by burning wood shavings in them, so as to 
coat the insides with a crust of charcoal. 

As whatever contaminates food in any way must be sure, from 
the repetition of its baneful effects, to injure the health, a due 
precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its 
more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow iron ware 
lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for 
sauces or preserves: indeed it is preferable for every purpose. 



DIET. 

That we require food, as vegetables require water, to support 
our existence, is the primary consideration upon which we should 
take it. But in our general practice of eating, it cannot be said, 
"we eat to live," but are living passages or channels, through 
which we are constantly propelling both solids and fluids, for the 
sake of pleasing our palates, at the severe cost often of our whole 
system. 



DIKT. a 

ii reasonable indulgence in the abundant supplies of nature, 
converted by art to the purposes of wholesome food, is one of the 
comforts added to the maintenance of life. It is an indiscriminate 
gratification of our tastes, regardless of the consequences that 
may ensue from it, that is alon€ blamable. But so great is our 
general apathy in these respects, that even on the occurrence of 
diseases, from which we are all more or less sufferers, we scarce- 
ly ever reflect on our diet, as the principal, if not the sole cause 
of them. We assign them to weather, to infection, to hereditary 
descent, to spontaneous breeding, as if a disease could originate 
without a cause; or to any frivolous imaginary source, without 
suspecting, or being willing to own, mismanagement of ourselves. 

We derive the renewal of our blood and juices, which are con- 
stantly exhausting, from the substances we take as food. As our 
food, therefore, is proper or improper, too much or too little, so 
will our blood and juices be good or bad, overcharged or deficient, 
and our state of health accordingly good or diseased. 

By aliment, or food, is to be understood whatever we eat or 
drink, including seasonings; such as salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, 
&c. &c. £very thing, in short, which we receive into our sto- 
machs. Our food, therefore, consists not only of such particles 
as are proper for the nourishment and support of the human body, 
but likewise contains certain active principles, viz. salts, oils, and 
spirits, which have the properties of stimulating the solids, quick- 
ening the circulation, and making the fluids thinner; thus render- 
ing them more suited to undergo the necessary secretions of the 
body. 

The art of preserving health, and obtaining long life, therefore 
consists in the use of a moderate quantity of such diet as shall 
neither increase the salts and oils, so as to produce disease, nor 
diminish them, so as to suffer the solids to become relaxed. 

It is very difficult, almost impossible, to ascertain exactly what 
are the predominant qualities either in our bodies or in the food 
we eat. In practice, therefore, we can have no other rule but 
observing by experience what it is that hurts or does us good; 
and what it is our stomach can digest with facility, or the contrary. 
But then we must keep our judgment unbiassed, and not suffer it 
to become a pander to the appetite, and thus betray the stomach 
and health, to indulge our sensuality. 

The eating too little is hurtful, as well as eating too much. 
Neither excess, nor hunger, nor any thing else that passes the 
bounds of nature, can be good to roan. 

By loading the stomach, fermentation is checked, and of course 
digestion impeded; for the natural juice of the stomach has not 
room to exert itself, and.it therefore nauseates its contents, is 
troubled with eructations, the spirits are oppressed, obstructions 
ensue, and fever is the consequence. Besides, that when thus 
overfilled, the stomach presses on the diaphragm, prevents the 
proper play of the lungs, and occasions uneasiness in our breath- 



Xii DIET. 

ing. Hence arise various ill symptoms and depraved effects 
throughout the body, enervating the strength, decaying the senses, 
hastening old age, and shortening life. Though these effects are 
not immediately perceived, yet they are certain attendants of 
intemperance; for it has been generally observed in great eaters, 
that, though from custom, a state of youth, and a strong constitu- 
tion, they have no present inconvenience, but have digested their 
food, suffered surfeit, and borne their immoderate diet well; if they 
have not been unexpectedly cut off, they have found the symptoms 
of old age come on early in life, attended with pains and innume- 
rable disorders. 

If we value our health, we must ever make it a rule not to eat 
to satiety or fulness, but desist while the stomach feels quite easy. 
Thus we. shall be refreshed, light, and cheerful; not dull, heavy, 
or indisposed. Should we ever be tempted to eat too much at one 
time, we should eat the less at another. Thus, if our dinner has 
been larger than usual, let our supper be less, or rather quite 
omitted ; for there is no man, however careful of his health, who 
does not occasionally transgress in this way. 

With regard to the times of eating, they must to a certain degree 
be conformed to family convenience, but ought to be quite inde- 
pendent of the caprices of fashion. The great things to be guard- 
ed against are, either eating too soon after a former meal, or 
fasting too long. — The stomach should always have time to empty 
itself before it is filled again. 

Some stomachs digest their contents sooner than others, and if 
long empty it may destroy the appetite, and greatly disturb both 
the head and animal spirits; for, from the great profusion of nerves 
spread upon the stomach, there is an immediate sympathy between 
that and the head. Hence the head is sure to be affected by 
whatever disorders the stomach, whether from any particular ali- 
ment that disagrees with it, or being overfilled, or too long empty. 
Such as feel a gnawing in the stomach, as it is called, should not 
wait till the stated time of the next meal, but take a small quanti- 
ty of light, easily digested food, that the stomach may have some- 
thing to work on. 

Young persons in health, who use much exercise, may eat three 
times a day. But such as are in years, such as are weak, as do 
no work, use no exercise, or lead a sedentary life, eating twice in 
the day is sufficient ; or, as in the present habits of society, it might 
be difficult to arrange the taking only two meals, let them take 
three very moderate ones. Old and weak persons may eat often, 
but then it should be very little at a time. 

The quality of our food is a subject of greater difficulty than 
the quantity; moderation is an invariably safe guide in the latter 
instance; but though always favorable to prevent ill effects from 
any error in quality, it will not always be effectual. 

To a person in good health, with a strong stomach, and whose 
constant beverage is water, cold or tepid, according to the sea- 



j DIBT. XXil 

son, or some aqueous liquor, the niceties of choice in food or 
cookery are less material than to persons with naturally weak sto- 
machs, or to those in sickness, or for children. But all persons 
who would to a certainty preserve their health and faculties, and 
live out the natural term of life, should use plain food, as all high 
seasonings and compound mixtures have an injurious effect, soon- 
er or later, on the strongest constitutions. If a few instances can 
be quoted to the contrary, these, like other anomalies in nature, 
catoot constitute an exception to a well established fact. 

No part of our aliment is more important than our beverage. 
It is essential to moisten and convey our more solid food into the 
stomach, and from thence to the respective parts of the body. To 
allay thirst, to dilute the blood, that it may circulate through the 
minutest vessels, to dissolve and carry off by the watery secre- 
tioBs the superfluous salts we take in our food ; to answer these 
purposes no liquid is so effectual as pure water, with the exception 
of some few cases. No other liquid circulates so well, or mixes so 
immediately with our fluids. All other liquors are impregnated 
with particles which act strongly upon the solids or fluids, or both ; 
but water being simple, operates only by diluting, moistening, and 
cooling, which are the great uses of drink pointed out to us by 
nature. Hence it is evident that water is in general the best and 
most wholesome drink; but some constitutions require something 
to warm and stimulate the stomach, and then fermented liquors 
taken in moderation are proper,* such as beer, ale, cider, wine, 
&c. the cbkoice and quantity of which depend on the age, consti- 
tution, and manner of living of the drinker; and to have them 
pure is above all things essential; as otherwise, instead of being 
of any benefit, they will be highly detrimental. 

Drams, or distilled spirituous liquors, the use of which is unhap- 
pily very prevalent, are of the most poisonous qualities; and from 
their direful effects are the destruction of thousands. From the 
degree of heat they have undergone in distillation they acquire a 
corrosive and burning quality, which makes them as certain to 
kill as laudanum or arsenic, though not so soon. They contract 
the fibres and vessels of the body, especially where they are 
the tenderest, as in the brain, and thus destroy the intellectual 
faculties. They injure the coat of the stomach, and thus expose 
the nerves and weaken the fibres till the whole stomach becomes 
at last sofl, flabby, and relaxed. From whence ensues loss of 
appetite, indigestion, and diseases that generally terminate in 
premature death. Spirituous liquors in any way, whether alone, 
.nixed with water, in punch, shrub, noyau, or other liqueurs, are 
all slow poisons. 

It would be endless to enter on an account of the different quali- 

' ties of all sorts of wines, but it may be said in general, that all 

^^ the light wines of a moderate strength, due age and maturity, are 

more wholesome for the constitution than the rich, hot, strong, 

B 



XIV • BOILING. 

heavy wines ; for the light wines inflame the juices of the bodj^ 
less and go off the stomach with less difficulty. 

The last thing to be said concerning liquors is, that wine and 
all other strong liquors, are as hard to digest as solid strong food. 
This is not only evident with respect to persons of weak stomachs 
and digestion, but also from strong healthy people, who only 
drink either water or small beer at their meals, and are able to 
eat and digest almost double the quantity of what they could if 
they drank strong liquors. It appears very plain, therefore, tKat 
we should not drink strong liquors at our meals, as by their heat 
ai^d activity they hurry the food undigested into the habit of the 
body, and by that means lay a foundation for various distempers. 
An abstinence, in short, from fermented liquors would preserve 
our mental faculties in vigor, and our bodies from many painful 
disorders that afflict mankind, as there is no doubt that we may 
principally ascribe to them the gout, rheumatism, stone, cancer, 
fevers, hysterics, lunacy, apoplexy, and palsy. 



BOILING. 

This most simple of culinary processes is not oflen performed in 
perfection. It does not require quite so much nicety and atten- 
dance as roasting ; to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiling 
(the slower the better) all the while, to know how long is required 
for doing the joint, &.c., and to take it up at the critical moment 
when it is done enough, comprehends almost the whole art and 
mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigi- 
lance, of which few persons are capable. 

The cook must take especial care that the water really boils all 
the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived in the time ; and 
make up a sufficient fire at first, to last all the time, without much 
mending or stirring. A frugal cook will manage with much less 
fire for boiling than she uses for roasting. 

When the pot is coming to a boil there will always, from the 
cleanest meat and clearest water, rise a scum to the top of it, pro- 
ceeding partly from the water ; this must be carefully taken oft as 
soon as it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of all boiled things. When 
you have skimmed well, put in some cold water, which will throw 
up the rest of the scum. 

The oflener it is skimmed, and the cleaner the top of the water 
is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be the meat. 

If let alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat, which, 
instead of looking delicately white and nice, will have that coarse 
and filthy appearance we have too oflen to complain of, and the 
butcher and poulterer be blamed for the carelessness of the cook 
in not skimming her pot. 



BOILING. XT 

Mail J put in milk, to make what they hoil look white ; hut this 
does more harm than good : others wrap it up in a cloth ; hut 
these are needless precautions : if the scum be attentively removed, 
meat will have a much more delicate color and finer flavor than it 
has when muffled up. This^ may give rather moie trouble, but 
those who wish to excel in their art must only consider how the 
processes of it can be most perfectly performed : a cook, who has 
a proper pride and pleasure in her business, will make this her 
ma^im on all occasions. 

It is desirable that meat for boiling he of an equal thickness, or, 
before thicker parts are done enough, the thimier will be done too 
much. 

Put your meat into cold water, in the proportion of about a quart 
of water to a pound of meat : it should be covered with water during 
the whole of the process of boiling, but not drowned in it ; the less 
water, provided the meat be covered with it, the more savory will 
be the meat, and the better will be the broth. 

The water should be heated gradually, according to the thick- 
ness, &.C. of the article boiled. For instance, a leg of mutton of 
ten pounds weight should be placed over a moderate fire, which 
will gradually make the water hot, without causing it to boil for 
about forty minutes ; if the water boils much sooner, the meat will 
be hardened, and shrink up as if it was scorched : by keeping the 
water a certain time heating without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken 
off as soon as it rises. 

The editor placed a thermometer in water in that state which 
cooks call gentle simmering ; the heat was 212^, i. e. the same 
degree as the strongest boiling. 

Two mutton chops were covered with cold water; one boiled a 
gallop, while the other simmered very gently for three-quarters of 
an hour : the chop which was slowly simmered was decidedly su- 
perior to that which was boiled ; it was much tenderer, more juicy, 
and much higher flavored. The liquor which boiled fast was in 
like proportion more savory, and when cold had much more fat 
on its surface. This explains why quick boiling renders meat 
hard, &c., because its juices are extracted in a greater degree. 

Reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. 

The old rule of 15 minutes to a pound of meat, we think rather 
too little : the slower it boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and whiter 
it will be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs), twenty minutes to a 
pound for fresh, and rather more for salted meat, will not be found 
too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire, allowing 
more or less time, according to the thickness of the joint, and the 
coldness of the weather : to know the state of which, let a ther- 
mometer be placed in the pantry ; and when it falls below 40 ^, tell 



XVI BAKING. I 

jour cook to give rather more time in both roasting add boiling, 
always remembering, the slower it boils the better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach anj art ; and cooks 
seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot, 
and set it over the fire for a certain time, making no allowance 
whether it simmers without a bubble or boils a gallop. 

Fresh-killed meat will take much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe ; and long- 
er in cold than in warm weather : if it be/ro«en, it must be thawed 
before boiling as before roasting ; if it be fresh-killed, it will be 
tough and hard, if you stew it ever so long, and ever so gently. 
In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it into 
a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 degrees of 
Fahrenheit's thermometer. 

The size of the boiling-pots should be adapted to what they are 
to contain : the larger the saucepan the more room it takes upon 
the fire, and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate 
increase of fire to boil it. 

In small families we recommend block-tin saucepans, &c. as 
lightest and safest. If proper care is taken of them, and they are 
well dried after they are cleaned, they are by far the cheapest ; 
the purchase of a new tin saucepan being little more than the ex- 
pense of tinning a copper one. 

Let the covers of your boiling-pots fit clctc, not only to prevent 
unnecessary evaporation of the water, but to prevent the escape 
of the nutritive matter, which must then remain either in the meat 
or in the broth ; and the smoke is prevented from insinuating itself 
under the edge of the lid, and. so giving the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after it is done 
enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavor. 

Beef and mutton a little under-done (especially very large joints, 
which will make the better hash or broil,) is not a great fault ; by 
some people it is preferred : but lamb, pork, and veal are uneata- 
ble if not thoroughly boiled ; but do not over-do them. 

A trivet or iish-drainer put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, rais- 
ing the contents about an inch and a half from the bottom, will 
prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom from 
being done too much, and the lower part of the meat will be as 
delicately done as the other part ; and this will enable you to take 
out the contents of the pot, without sticking a fork, &c. into it. 
If you have not a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup-plate laid the 
wrong side upwards. 

BAKING. 

Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of 
dressing a dinner in small families; and, I may say, that the oven 
is often the only kitchen a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a 
joint of meat. 



BAKiSG, trii 

I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roasting to 
baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly approach to the 
same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the 
table, and eaten as such with great satisfaction. 

Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, and many 
other joints, will bake to great advantage, if the meat be good; 
I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be fat: if the meat be poor, no 
baker can give satisfaction. 

When baking a poor joint of meat, before it has been half 
baked I have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely 
to be believed. 

Besides those joints above mentioned, I shall enumerate a few 
baked dishes which I can particularly recommend. 

A pig» when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have 
its ears and tail covered with buttered paper properly fastened on, 
and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back 
with, otherwise it will be apt to blister: with a proper share of 
attention from the baker, I consider this way equal to a roasted 
one. 

A goose prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have 
it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. 
A duck the same. 

A buttock of beef the following way is particularly fine. Afler 
it has been in salt about a week, to be well washed, and put into 
a brown earthen pan with a pint of water; cover the pan tight 
with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper: never 
cover anything that is to be baked with brown paper, the pitch 
and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad 
taste: give it four or five hours in a moderately heated oven. 

A ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour, taken out and 
wiped, a crust made sufficient to cover it all over, and baked in 
a moderately heated oven, cuts fuller of gravy, and of a finer 
flavor, than a boiled one. I have been in thie habit of baking 
small cod-fish, haddock, and mackerel, with qi dust of dour, and 
some bits of butter put on them; eels, when large and stuffed; 
herrings and sprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little 
spice, and tied over with paper. A hare, prepared the same as 
for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a little drop of milk 
put into the dish, and basted several times, will be found nearly 
equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a 
jar or pan, and cover it over and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about three hours. In the same manner, I have been in the hab- 
it of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c, prepared with 
a seasoning of onions, turnips, &c.: they will take about four 
hours: let them stand till cold, to skim off the fat; then warm it 
up all together, or part,- as you may want it. 

All these I have been in the habit of baking for the first families. 

The time each of the above articles should take depends much 
upon the state of the oven, and I do consider the baker a liti^ 

B* 



ZTUl ROASTING* 



ficient judge ; if they are sent to him in time, he must be very 
neglectful if they are not ready at the time they are ordered. 



ROASTING. 

Let the young cook never forget that cleanliness is the chief 
cardinal virtue of the kitchen; the first preparation for roasting 
is to take care that the spit be properly cleaned with sand and 
water; nothing else. When it has been well scoured with this, 
dry it with a clean cloth. If spits are wiped clean as soon as the 
meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a very little 
cleaning will he required. The less the spit is passed through 
the meat the better ; and, before you spit it, joint it properly, es- 
pecially necks and loins, that the carver may separate them easi- 
ly and neatly, and take especial care it be evenly balanced on 
the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire operate 
equally on each part of it; therefore, be provided with balancing- 
skewers and cookholds, and see it is properly jointed. 

Make up the fire in time; let it be proportioned to the dinner 
to be dressed, and about three or four inches longer at each end 
than the thing to be roasted, or the ends of the meat cannot be 
done nice and brown. 

A cook must be as particular to proportion her fire to the busi- 
ness she has to do, as a chemist : the degree of heat most desira- 
ble for dressing the different sorts of food ought to be attended 
to with the utmost precision. 

The fire that is but just sufficient to receive the noble sirloin 
will parch up a lighter joint. 

Never put meat down to a burned-up fire, if you can possibly 
avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a 
considerable distance, and allow a little more time. 

Preserve the fat, by covering it with paper, for this purpose 
called ** kitchen-paper," and tie it on with fine twine; pins and 
skewers can by no means be allowed ; they are so many taps to 
let out the gravy: besides, the paper oflen starts from them and 
catches fire, to the great injury of the meat. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should 
be. little and brisk: when you have a large joint to roast, make up 
a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part, or your meat 
cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform color which 
constitutes the beauty of good roasting. 

Give the fire a good stirring before you lay the joint down ; 
examine it from time to time while the spit is going round ; keep 
it clear at the bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in 
the front, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and 
hinder it from roasting evenly. 

When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than the 
Other, place the spit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the fire 



ROAftTIHO. ^ 

Do not pat meat too near the fire at first; the larger the joint, 
the farther it must be kept from the fire: if once it gets scorched, 
the outside will become hard, and acquire a disagreeable, empyr- 
eumatic taste; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into 
it, the meat will appear done before it is little more than half 
done, besides losing the pcde brown color, which it is the beauty 
«of roasted meat to have. 

Be very careful to place the dripping-pan at such a distance 
from the fire as just to catch the drippings: if it is too near, the 
ashes will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. 

If it is too far from the fire to catch them, you will not only lose 
your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by 
the fcBtid smoke, which will arise when the fat falls on the live 
cinders. 

A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes. It 
should not be less than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inch- 
es wide, and have a covered well on the side from the fire, to 
collect the drippings; this will preserve them in the most delicate 
state: in a pan of the above size you may set fried fish, and vari- 
ous dishes, to keep hot. 

The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the 
time it has been kept, and the temperature of the weather; the 
same weight will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in 
cold weather, than it will be in warm; and if fresh killed, than if 
it has been kept till it is tender. 

Everybody knows the advantage of slaw haUit^. Slow roasting 
is equally important. 

It is difficult to give any specific rule for time; but if your fire 
is made as before directed, your meat-screen sufficiently large to 
^uard what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat 
IS not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old general 
rule of allowing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the 
pound; a little more or less, according to the temperature of the 
weather, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with 
which you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it will take, 
as it keeps the meat soA and mellow on the outside, and the fire 
acts with more force upon it. 

Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, but 
to the moment the roasts will be wanted. Supposing there are a 
dozen people to sip soup and eat fish first, you may allow them 
ten or fifteen minutes for the former, and about as long for the 
latter, more or less, according to the temptations the ''bon gout" 
of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. 

When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pai;! 
back, and stir up your fire thoroughly, that it may burn clear and 
bright for the browning; when the steam from the meat draws to- 
wards the fire, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will 
be the best judge of that, from the time it has been down, the 



tt FRTINO. 

strength of the fire you have used, and the distance your spit has 
been from it. 

Half an hour before your meat is done, make some gravy, and 
just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If 
you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour carefully: 
you cannot do this delicately nice without a very good light. 
The common fault seems to be using too much flour. The meat 
should have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of 
being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the 
fi-oth use butter instead of drippings. 

A good cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and 
color of her roasts, as a young beauty is to her complexion at a 
birthday ball. If your meat does not brown so much, or so even- 
ly as you wish, take two ounces of glaze, i. e. portable soup, put 
four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradu- 
ally by the side of the fire. This will be done in about a quarter 
of an hour; put it on the meat equally all over with a paste-brush 
the last thing before it goes to table. 

Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally 
considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cook- 
ery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it perfect- 
ly well than it does to make most made dishes. 

That made dishes are the most difficuh preparations, deserves 
to be reckoned among the culinary vulgar errors; in plain roast- 
ing and boiling it is not easy to repair a mistake once made; and 
all the discretion and attention of a steady, careful cook, must 
be unremittingly upon the alert. 



FRYING. 

Frying is oflen a convenient mode of cookery; it may be per- 
formed by a fire which will not do for roasting or boiling; and by 
the introduction of the pan between the meat and the fire, things 
get more equally dressed. 

The Dutch oven or bonnet is a very convenient utensil for small 
things, and a very useful substitute for the jack, the gridiron, or 
frying-pan. 

A frying-pan should be about four inches deep, with a perfectly 
flat and thick bottom, twelve inches long and nine broad, with 
perpendicular sides, and must be half filled with fat: good frying 
is, in fact, boiling in fat. To make sure that the pan is quite 
clean, rub a little fat over it, and then make it warm, and wipe it 
out with a clean cloth. 

Be very particular in frying, never to use any oil, butter, lard, 
or drippings, but what is quite clean, fresh, and free from salt. 
Any thing dirty spoils the look; any thing bad-tasted or stole, 
spoils the flavor; and salt prevents its browning. 

Fine olive oil is the most delicate for frying; but the best oil is 
expensive, and bad od spoils every thing that is dressed with it 



FRTINO. sot 

For general purposes, and especially for fish, clean fresh lard 
is not near so expensive as Oil or clarified butter, and does almost 
as well. Butter often burns before you are aware of it ; and what 
you fry will get a dark and dirty appearance. 

Dripping, if nicely clean and fresh, is almost as good as any 
thing ; if not clean, it may be easily clarified. Whatever fat you 
use, after you have done frying, let it remain in the pan for a few 
minutes, and then pour it through a sieve into a clean basin; it 
will do three or four times as well as it did at first, i. e. if it has not 
burned: but, the fat you have fried fish in must not be used for 
any other purpose. 

To know when the fat is of a proper heat, according to what 
you are to fry, is the great secret in frying. 

To fry fish, parsley, potatoes, or any thing that is watery, your 
fire must be very clear, and the fat quite hot; which you may be 
pretty sure of, when it has done hissing, and is still. We cannot 
insist too strongly on this point: if the fat is not very hot, you 
cannot fry fish either to a good color, or firm and crisp. 

To be quite certain, throw a little bit of bread into the pan; if it 
fries crisp, the fat is ready; if it burns the bread, it is too hot. 

The fire under the pan roust be clear and sharp, otherwise the 
fat is so lt>ng before it becomes ready, and demands such attend- 
ance to prevent the accident of its catching fire, that the patience 
of cooks is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance or im- 
patience, throw in what they are going to fry before the fat is half 
hot enough. Whatever is so fried will be pale and sodden, and 
ofiTend the palate and stomach not less than the eye. 

Have a good light to fry by, that you may see when you have 
got the right color: a lamp fixed on a stem, with a loaded foot, 
which has an arm that lengthens out, and slides up and down like 
a reading candlestick, is a most useful appendage to kitchen fire- 
places, which are very seldom light enough for the nicer opera- 
tions of cookery. 

After all, if you do not thoroughly drain the fat from what you 
have fried, especially from those things that are full dressed in 
bread crumbs, or biscuit powder, &c., your cooking will do you 
no credit. 

The dryness of fish depends much upon its having been fried in 
fat of a due degree of heat ; it is then crisp and dry in a few min- 
utes after it is taken out of the pan: when it is not, lay it on a soft 
cloth before the fire, turning it occasionally, till it is. This will • 
sometimes take fifteen minutes: therefore, always fry fish as long 
as this before you want them, for fear you may fipd this necessary. 

To fry fish, see receipt to fry soles, which is the only circum- 
stantial account of the process that has yet been printed. If the 
cook will study it with a little attention, she must soon become an 
accomplished frier. 

Frying, though one of the most common of culinary operationSj 
js one that is least commonly performed perfectly well. 



sdi BAoiLiira. 



BROILING. 

Cleanliness is extremely essential in this mode of cookery. 

Keep your gridiron quite clean 'between the bars, and bright on 
the top: when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth: jiist before 
you use it, rub the bars with clean mutton-supt, to prevent the 
meat from being marked by the gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your fire in time, so that it may bum 
quite clear? a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, or you cannot 
give your meat that browning which constitutes the perfection of 
this mode of cookery, and gives a relish to food it cannot receive 
any other way. 

The chops or slices should be from half to three-quarters of an 
inch in thickness; if thicker, they will be done too much on the 
dutside before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment that any thing ia 
done: never hasten any thing that is broiling, lest you make 
smoke and spoil it. 

Ijct the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not 
burning hot upon the surface: this is the perfect and fine condition 
of the gridiron. 

As the bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it 
is absolutely necessary they should be thoroughly hot before the 
thing to be cooked be laid on them. 

The bars of gridirons should be made concave, and terminate in 
a trough to catch the gravy and keep the fat from dropping into 
the fire and making a smoke, which will spoil the broil. 

Upright gridirons are the best, as they can be used at any fire 
without fear of smoke; and the gravy is preserved in the trough 
under them. 

N. B. Broils must be brought to table as hot as possible ; set a 
dish to heat when you put your chops on the gridiron, from whence 
to the mouth their progress must be as quick as possible. 

When the fire is not clear, the business of the gridiron may be 
done by the Dutch oven or bonnet. 

Take care to have a very clear, brisk fire ; throw a little salt on 
it; make the gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat 
from dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. It requires • 
more practice and care than is generally supposed to do steaks to 
a nicety; and for want of these little attentions, this very common 
dish, which every body is supposed capable of dressing, seldom 
comes to table in perfection. 

Ask those you cook for, if they like it under, or thoroughly 
done; and what accompaniments they like best; it is usual to put 
a table-spoonful of ketchup, or a little minced eschalot, into a dish 
before the fire; while you are broiling, turn the steak, &o. with a 
pair of steak-tongs, it will be done in about tenor fifteen minutes; 
rub a bit of butter over it, and send it up garnished with pickles 
and finely-scraped horse-radish. 



BftOTHS AKD SOITPft* 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. 



The cook must pay continual attention to the condition of her 
stew-pans, soup-kettles, &c. which should be examined every time 
they are used. The prudent housewife will carefully examine the 
condition of them herself A least once a month. Their covers 
also must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the stew- 
pans not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the 
outside: many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair; 
and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will be in vain; 
the broths and soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and 
poisonous, and will be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and 
your credit will be lost. 

The health, and even life of the family, depends upon this, and 
the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's 
bill than the doctor's; therefore, attention to this cannot fail to 
engage the regard of the mistress, between whom and the cook it 
will be my utmost endeavor to promote perfect harmony. 

If she has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her 
pan, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, I ad- 
vise her, by all means, immediately to acquaint her employers, 
who will thank her for candidly mentioning an accident; and cen- 
sure her deservedly if she conceal it. 

Take care to be properly provided with«ieves and tammy cloths, 
spoons and ladles. Make it a rule without an exception, never to 
use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any 
Btew-pans, &c. without first washing them out with boiling water, 
and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean 
them from grease, sand, &c., or any bad smell they may have got 
since they were last used : never neglect this. 

Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut 
as to wilfully neglect her broth-pots, &c,, yet we may recommend 
her to wash them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly 
dried at the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry 
place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon: attend to 
this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. 

Never put by any soup, gravy, &c. in metal utensils; in which 
Dever keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the 
purposes of cookery; the acid, vegetables, fat, &c. employed in 
making soups, Sic. are capable of dissolving such utensils: there- 
fore stone or earthern vessels should be used for this purpose. 

Stew-pans, soup-pots, and preserving pans, with thick and round 
bottoms (such as saucepans are made with), will wear twice as 
long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides 
are soldered to the bottom, for sand and grease get into the 
joined part, and cookeys say that it is next to an impossibility to 
dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebuchadnezzar's. 

Tmke care that the lids fit as close as possible, that the broth. 



ZXlY BROTHS AND 80UPS« 

soup, and sauces, &.c. may not waste by evaporation. They are 
good for nothing, unless they fit tight enough to keep the steam in 
and the smoke out. 

Stew-pans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper 
rim, where the fire does not burn them; but to scour them all aver 
is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the 
vessels. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; pro- 
cure those pieces which afibrd the richest succulence, and as fresh 
killed as possible. 

Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat 
is wasted. This only applies to those broths which are required 
to be perfectly clear: fat and clarified drippings may be so com- 
bined with vegetable mucilage, as to afibrd, at the small cost of 
one penny per quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fully ade- 
quate to satisfy appetite and support strength: this will open a 
new source to those benevolent housekeepers, who are disposed 
to relieve the poor, will show the industrious classes how much 
they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them 
from being objects of charity dependent on the precarious bounty 
of others, by teaching them how they may obtain a cheap, abun- 
dant, scdubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and fam- 
ilies. 

This soup has the advantage of being very easily and very soon 
made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room. Those 
who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savory, 
and satisfying meal is produced by the judicious combination of 
cheap homely ingredients. 

The general fault of our soups seems to be the employment of 
an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. 

There is no French dinner without soup, which is regarded as 
an indispensable overture; and believe it an excellent plan to begin 
the banquet with a basin of good soup, which, by moderating the 
appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salutiferous custom. 

We again caution the cook to avoid over-seasoning, especially 
with predominant flavors, which, however agreeable they may be 
to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. 

Zest, soy, cavice, coratch, anchovy, curry powder, savory ra- 
gout powder, soup herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle li- 
quor, beer, wine, and sweet herbs, and savory spice, are very 
convenient auxiliaries to finish soups, &c. 

The proportion of wine should not exceed a large wine-glass- 
ful to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted, 
without the vinous flavor becoming remarkably predominant; 
though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is 
'ncomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more 
flavor, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even 
veritable eau de vie ia ordered in many books, and used by many 
(especially tavern cooks). So much are their soups overloaded 



BROTHS AND SOUPfl. XXT 

with relish, that ifjon will eat enough of them they will certainly 
make you drunk, if they don't make you sick: all this frequently 
arises from an old cook measuring the excitability of the eaters' 
palates by his own, which may be so blunted by incessant tasting, 
that to awaken it, requires wins instead of water, and cayenne 
and garlic for black pepper and onion. 

The art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the seve- 
ral ingredients one to another, that no particular taste be strong- 
er than the rest, but to produce such a fine harmonious relish that 
tlio whole is delightful. This requires that judicious combination 
of the materials which constitutes the '^ch^fd'auvre*^ of culinary 
science. 

In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be per- 
fectly well cleaned; proportion the water to the quantity of meat 
and other ingredients, generally a pound of meat to a quart of 
water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they 
stew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is ex- 
pected at the end; for when the pot is covered quite close, and 
the fire gentle, very little is wasted. 

Grentle stewing is incomparably the best; the meat is more ten- 
der, and the soup better flavored. 

It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle 
should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are 
aware of it. 

Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, which will make the 
water hot without causing it to boil for at least half an hour; if 
the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat, and 
cleanse it from the clotted blood, &nd other matters which ought to 
go off in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat; 
will shrink up as if it was scorched, and give hardlv any gravy: 
on the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heating with- 
out boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres are dilated, 
and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken ofif as soon 
as it appears. 

It is not till afler a good half hour's hot infusion that we may 
mend the fire, and make the pot boil : still continue to remove tiU 
scum; and when no more appears, put in the vegetables, &c. and 
a little salt. These will cause more scum to rise, which must be 
taken ofiT immediately; then cover the pot very closely, and place 
it at a proper distance from the fire, where it will boil very gently, 
and equally, and by no means fast. 

By quick and strong boiling the volatile and finest parts of th<^ 
ingredients are evaporated, and fly ofl* with the steam, and the 
coarser parts are rendered soluble ; so you . lose the good, and get 
the bad. 

Soups will generally take from three to six hours. 

Prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want 
them. This will give you more time to attend to the rest of your 
dinner the next day; and when the soup is cold, the fat may be 

C 



S3CVi BROTHS AND SOUPtl« 

much more easily and completely removed from the surface of il. 
When you decant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at the 
bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through 
a sieve, or even through a tamis, which is the best strainer, the 
soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned 
than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through a 
dean tamis or napkin, previously soaked in cold water ; the cold- 
ness of this will coagulate the fat, and only sufier the pure broth 
fo pass through. 

The full flavor of the ingredients can only be extracted by very 
long and slow simmering ; during which take care to prevent 
evaporation, by covering the pot as close as possible: the best 
stew-pot is a digester. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent; thickened soups, 
about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened 
soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. 

To thicken and give body to soups and sauces, the following 
materials are used: they must be gradually, mixed with the soup 
till thoroughly incorporated with it; and it should have at least 
half an hour^s gentle simmering after: if it is at all lun^, pass it 
through a tamis or a fine sieve. Bread raspings, bread, isinglass, 
potato mucilage, flour, or fat skimmings and flour, or flour and 
butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed weU together. 

To their very rich gravies, &c. the French add the white meat 
of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp, and rubbed 
through a sieve. A piece of beef, which has been boiled to make 
broth, pounded in the like manner with a bit of butter and flour, 
and gradually incorporated witH the gravy or soup, will be found 
a satisfactory substitute for these more expensive articles. 

Meat from which broth has been made and all its juice has been 
extracted, is then excellently well prepared for totting, and is 

Suite as good, or better, than that which has been baked till it is 
ry; indeed, iif it be pounded, and seasoned in the usual manner, 
it will be an elegant and savory luncheon, or supper, and costs 
nothing but the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, and a 
relish is procured for sandwiches, &e. of what heretofM'e has been 
by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite cf ihe cat. 

Keep some spare broth lest your soup-liquor waste in boiling, 
and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various 
i^auces, &c. ; for many of which it is a much better basis than 
melted butter. 

The soup of mock turtle, and the other thickened soups, wiH 
supply you with a thick gravy sauce for pouttry, fish, ragouts, &c. ; 
and by a little management of this sort, you may generally con-> 
trive to have plenty of good gravies and good sauces with rtry 
little trouble or expense. 

If soup is too thin or too weak, take off the cover of your soup- 
pot, and let it n boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated. 
Or 6lse add some of the thickening materials we have before men- 



OBSERVATION!. XXVU 

tioned ; and have at hand some plain hrowning. This simple pre- 
paration is much better than any of the compounds bearing that 
name; as it colors sauce or soup without much interfering with its 
fiavor, and is a much better way of coloring them than burning 
the surface of the meat. 

. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day, in hat weaiKer, 
they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded 
tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in temperate weather 
every other day may be enough. 

We hope we have now put the common cook into possession of 
the whole arcana of soup-making, without much trouble to herself, 
or expense to her employers. It would greatly diminish the ex- 
pense, and improve soups, if the agents employed to give them a 
zest were not put in above fifteen minutes ben>re the finish, and 
half the quantity of spice, &c. would do. A strong heat soon dis- 
sipates the spirit of the wine, and evaporates the aroma and flavor 
of the spices and herbs, which are volatile in the heat of boiling 
water. 

Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much 
sooner and better thai) those that are cold and raw : on this ac- 
count, RESTORATIVE SOUP is the bcst food for those who are en- 
feebled by disease or dissipation, and for old people, whose teeth 
and digestive organs are impaired. 

Afler catching coid, in ^ervous headaches, cholics, indigestions, 
and diflTerent kinds of cramp and spasms in the stomach, warm 
broth is of excellent service. 

AAer intemperate feasting, to give the stomach a holyday for a 
day or two by a diet on mutton broth, or vegetable soup, &c. is the 
best way to restore its tone. ** The stretching any power to its 
utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be every day obliged to 
do as much as it can, it will every day be able to do less. A wise 
traveller will never force his horse to perform as much as he can 
in one day upon a long journey," 



OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN ARTICLES. 

We shall conclude these Introductory Observations, with a few 
remarks on the qualities of certain Articles in common use. 

Butter. 

Well made pure butter is lenient and nourishing, eaten cold, 
in moderation, with bread. But upon hot new bread, or hot 
toast, or used as sauce to animal food, it is not wholesome. In 
the two first instances it is very apt to turn acid in the stomach ; 
and in the latter, to float uppermost in the stomach, and disturb 
the digestion. If melted thick and carefuHv, and eaten with 
vegetable food and bread only, it is not so liable to this objection. 

Butter is good for dry, constipated habits, but not for such as 
are bilious, asthmatic, or corpulent. 



Zkrili OBSERVATIONS. 

Honey, 

Honey is nourishing and wholesome, particularly for persons 
with coughs, weak lungs, and short breath. It is balsamic, 
cleansing, and makes the body soluble. 

Great care should be taken to get it fresh and pure; it is apt 
to turn sour by long keeping. 

Sugar. 
Sugar used in moderation is nourishing and good, but much 
of it destroys the appetite, and injures the digestion. MoiEtt 
sugar is the sweetest, and most opening; refined sugar, of a bind* 
ing nature. The preparations made of sugar, such as barley- 
sugar, sugar-candy, &c. are all indigestible and bad, as the good 
properties of the sugar are destroyed by the process it undergoe&r 
m the making them. They are particularly injurious to children, 
from cloying their delicate stomachs. Young children are in 
general better without sugar, as it is very apt to turn acid and 
disagree with weak stomachs; and the kind of food they take 
has natural sweetness enough in it not at all to require it. 

Salt 

Salt, moderately used, especially with flesh, fish, butter, and 
cheese, is very beneficial, as it naturally stimulates weak or dis- 
ordered stomachs, and checks fermentationg. But if it be im- 
moderately used it has a contrary effect. Very little salt should 
be used with vegetable food of the grain or seed kind; for the 
less salt that is put to it the milder, cooler, pleasanter, and easier 
01* digestion it will be. Salt excites the appetite, assists the 
stomach in digesting crude phlegmatic substances, is cleansing^, 
and prevents putrefaction; but if too much used, it heats and dries 
the blood and natural moisture. It is best for phlegmatic, cold,, 
and moist stomachs; and most injurious to hot, lean bodies^ 

Salt-petre is particularly bad for bilious persons. 

Vinegar, 

Vinegar is cooling, opening, excites the appetite, assies diges- 
tion, is good for hot stomachs, resists putrefaction, and there- 
fore very good against pestilential diseases. Too much use of it 
injures the nerves, emaciates some constitutions, is hurtful to the 
breast, and makes people look old and withered, with pale lips. 

The best vinegar is that which is made of the best wiues. 
Lemon-juice and verjuice have much the same qualities and el- 
fects as vinegar. 

The commonest vinegar is least adulterated. 

Mustard, 
Mustard quickens the appetite, warms the stomach, assists in 
digesting hard meats, and dries up surperfluous moisture. It sel- 
dom agrees with weak stomachs. 



OBseRVATIOKS. XXIS 

Spices. 

Cayenne pepper, black pepper, and ginger, may be esteemed 
the best of spices. 

Nutmegs, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and allspice, are generally 
productive of indigestion and headache to weak persons. 

Oarlic, fyc. 

Garlic, onions, rocambole, shallots, leeks, and horse-radish, 
are occasionally good for strong stomachs, but generally dia»> 
gree with weak stomachs. 

Tea. 

The frequent drinking of a quantity of strong tea, as is the 
general practice, relaxes and weakens the tone of the stomach, 
whence proceeds nausea and indigestion, with a weakness of the 
nerves, and flabbiness of the flesh, and very of\en a pale wan 
complexion. Milk,, when mixed with it in some quantity, lessens 
its bad qualities, by rendering it softer, and nutritious; and, with 
a moderate quantity of sugar, it may then be a proper breakfast^ 
as a diluent, to those who are strong, and live freely, in order to 
cleanse the alimentary passages, and wash off the salts from the 
kidneys and bladder. But persons of weak nerves ought to ab- 
stain from it as carefully as from drams and cordial drops ; as H 
causes the same kind of irritation on the tender delicate fibres of 
the stomach, which ends in lowness, trembling and vapors. 

It should never be drank hot by any body. Green tea is less 
wholeiiome than black or bohea. 

Coffee. 

Coffee affords very little nourishment, and is apt to occasion 
heat, dryness, stimulation and tremors of the nerves, and for 
these reasons is thought to occasion palsies, watchfulness, and 
leanness. Hence it is very plain that it must be pernicious to hot, 
dry, and bilious constitutions. If moderately used it may be 
beneficial to phlegmatic persons, but, if drank very strong, or in 
great quantities, it will prove injurious even to them. 

The following remarks on Coffee, were published in London, 
by a physician. 1st. The raw coffee should be round and small 
grained, free from dirt and of a light color. It should have no 
appearance of mouldiness, and be kept quite free from any strong 
smell. It should not be long kept in sacks with other provisions, 
as there is no substance more apt to obtain strong and disagree- 
able odors from the presence of its neighbors. Hum injures it; 
and Miller even goes so far as to state that a few bags of pepper 
«n board a 0hip from India upon one occasion spoiled the whole 
cargo. 



XXX. OBSERVATIONS. 

2nd. When the grains are large, flat, and of a green color, 
they should be kept on hand, in a dry situation, a long time before 
use. Every West India planter knows this fact, although hid 
interest often induces him to send the article to market before it 
is old and dry enough. 

3d. Roasting coffee is by far the most difRcult operation of the 
housekeeper; when carried far enough, an aromatic oil is formed 
by the heat and forces itself out upon the surface of the grains, 
giving them a glossy appearance, and an odor which is consider- 
ed their perfection; yet too little roasting prevents the aroma 
from appearing, and too much completely volatilizes it, leaving 
nothing but a flat bitter taste. The heat should be strong and 
the operation shortened as much as possible without burning the 
grains. The roaster should be close or well covered all the time, 
and in order to improve the looks and flavor, a small piece of 
butter may be added to the coffee, while parching. 

4th. When thus prepared, coflfee may be preserved for use in 
large quantities, without losing much of its freshness, provided 
the vessels containing it be well covered. 

5th. An infusion of cofllee is better than a decoction, simply 
because the heat, in the last case, being stronger and more last- 
ing, drives oflf more of the aromatic oil. It is better, therefore, 
to grind the coffee very fine, and then to expose it, by means of 
a bag or strainer, to the action of boiling water, than to boil it 
any length of time. Heat, though unavoidable, injures the flavor, 
and the best coflTee I remember to have tasted was made by ex- 
posing the powder to a pressure of cold water ; a tea-spoonful of 
this extract, thrown into a cup of hot water, was suflicient.. It is 
not a bad method to allow the ground cofl^BC to lie in cold water 
between meals, and then prepare it by adding hot water. Just in 
proportion to the continuance of heat, in this and in the last 
operation, the fragrance disappears, and is replaced by a strong 
bitter taste, which, according to the experiments of Chenevix, de- 
pends upon the presence of tannin (resembling that in tan bark). 
Roasting, besides forming this bitter substance, deprives the coi^ 
fee of its nutritious qualities. 

Chocolate. 

Is rich, nutritious, and soothing, saponaceous, and cleansing; 
from which quality it offen helps digestion, and excites the appe- 
tite. It is only proper for some of the leaner and stronger sort of 
phlegmatic constitutions, and some old people who are healthy, 
and accustomed to bodily exercise. 

Cocoa. 

Is of the same nature as chocolate, but not so rich; and ther^ 
fore lighter upon the stomach. 



OBSERVATIONS. tXXk 

Frvii, 

Fruits are of different degrees of digestibility. Those of a hard 
texture, as some kinds of apples, melons, apricots, several sorts 
of fleshy plums, and all immature fruits, are difficult of digestion. 

Strawberries, raspberries, currants, gooseberries, cherries, 
green-gages, peaches, nectarines, melting pears, mulberries, figs, 
grapes, medlars, when all quite ripe, are more easily dissolved in 
the stomach. 

Fruit, moderately eaten, is wholesome, particularly as correct- 
ing the grossness of animal food. But an excess of it, and es- 
pecially of unripe fruit, is productive of many diseases; amongst 
children in particular, it often occasions such as the nettle rash 
and St. Anthony's fire. 

Fruit invariably disagrees with bilious persons; but is a sover- 
eign remedy for the sea scurvy, and for diseases arising from an 
excess of animal food. 

JVWa and Mmonda. 
Most kinds of nuts, and almonds, from their milky or oily na- 
ture, contain a good deal of nourishment ; but they require to be 
well chewed, as they are difficult of digestion. Persons with 
weak stomachs should not eat them. The worst time at which 
they can be eaten is after a meal. 

Olives. 
Olives that have been gathered immature or unripe, and put into 
a pickle to keep them sound, are apt, especially if frequently eaten, 
to obstruct the stomach and passages. The best way of eating 
them is with good bread, when the stomach is properly empty To 
eat them upon a full stomach is very bad. 



NOTE. 

Receipts for making all kinds of Bread, Biscuits, Blancmange, 
Buns, Broth, Cakes, Creams, Custards, Jams, Jellies, Paste, Pies, 
Puddings, Soups, Sauces, &c., will be found under these general 
heads ; the metliod of cooking the several meats are arranged under 
the name of each meat. Still there are interspersed throughout the 
book single receipts under the letter of the name, of which many of 
the above articles are composed. We will instance the following, 
viz: — 

Cakes, — ^Almond, Crumpets, Echaudes, Fanchonettes, Flemish wa- 
fers, Frangipane, Gateau, Gingerbread, Hedgehog, Jumbles, 
Kisses, Lemon Bonbons, Macaroons, Madelains, Meat, Mjif- 
fins. Oat, Orange, Perlingo, Sally Lunns. 
Bread, — ^Almond, Brentford, Filbert, French Rolls, Rusks. 
Creams, — ^Under various fruits of which they are made. 
Veal, — ^Friar's chicken, Gratin, and many articles under Calf. 
Fowls, — See also Chickens, Capons. 
Beef, — See also Ox. 



3CXX11« 



Tbe following Engraving represents the method of dividing an Ox 
for the table, in England, and in most of the southern cities of the 
United States, The method in Boston varies considerably, dividing 
into smaller pieces, and this plan we pursue in the following tables ; 
but the manner of cooking each is nearly the same. 




I- Sirloin. 


10, Fore rib : Five ribs. 


2. Rump. 


11. Middle rib: Four ribs. 


8. Edge Bone. 


12. Chuck: Threfj ribs. 


4. Buttock. 


13. Shoulder or leg-of-mutton piece. 


6. Mouse Buttock. 


14. Brisket. 


6. Veiny Piece. 


15. Clod. 


7. Thick Flank. 


16. Neck, or Sticking Piece. 


8. Thin Flank. 


17. Shin. 


9. L^g. 


18. Cheek. 



MARKETING TABLES. 



BEEF. 



THE HIND QUARTER. 



Sirloin 
Rump 
Edge Bone 

Round 

Veiny Piece 
Thick Flank 
Thin Flank 
XiCg Ran 
Leg 



Price per lb. 
10 to 12 cents 
10 to 12 „ 
6 to 8 „ 

8 to 10 „ 



6 to 8 

6 to 8 

6 

4 

2 



Method of oookliic. 
Roasted. 

Roasted, or Steak, or Stew. 
Boiled. 

{Alamode, Boiled, or savory salt* 
ed Beef. 
Steaks or Roast ; or baked or sailed. 
Steaks, or corned. 

do. 
Boil ; Soup, or Stew. 
Soup or Stew. 



THE FORE QUARTER. 



First Gut, 2 Ribs 10 cents 

Second Cut, 2 Ribs 10 „ 

Third Cut, 2 Ribs 8 „ 

Fourth Cut, 2 Ribs 6 „ 

Chuck Rib 6 „ 

Shoulder of Mutton Piece 5 „ 

Shoulder Clod 3 „ 

Brisket 6 „ 

Rattleran 6 „ 

Sticking Piece 3 „ 

Neck 2 „ 

Shin 2 „ 

Head (20 cents) 

Tail (2 cents) 

Heels, given with the head 



Roast. 

do. 

do. 

do. 
Boil or Stew, or for making fpwf 
Steaks or Bouilli. 
Boil or Soup, or Beef Sausages. 

SBoil, or BouiUi ; or stewing, or 
Harricot, or Salted. 
Boil. 

Boil, or Soup. 
Gravy. 

{Soup; excellent Scotch barley 
Broth, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Boiled, Jelly, Soup. 



MUTTON. 



Leg 
Loin 



8 to 10 cents 
6 to 8 „ 

d to 6 „ 



Rack, neck end 

Rack, best end 

Shoulder 

Breast 

Head 

The Chine or the Saddle, two 
Loins, The Haunch 
Leg and part of the Loin, 



6 to 8 
6 
6 
4 



two \ 
is a > 
in, j 



Boil, Roast. 

Chops — Roast, Boil, 

{Boil, Roast, Irish Stew, Harricot, 
Stewed, Broth. 
Chops, or Broth. 
Roast. 

Broth, — GriUed. 
Broth. 

Roasted, Venisonified. 



MARRfiTIXa. 



Loin 

Leg „ 

Fillet „ 

Knuckle, or whole Leg 8 

Breast 8 to 10 

Breast aad Neck 6 

Rack 6 

Shoulder 6 

Brisket B 

Cutlets 16 



VEAL. 

8 to 10 cents ' Roast. 



Cutlets, Roast, Boil. ' 

( Roasted, Veal Olives, Scotch 

\ Collops. 

Broth, Ragout, Stew, Soup. 

Roast, 

Roast, Stew, Ragout, Curry. 

Soup-— Chops to fry. 

Roast, or Bake. 

Stewed, Ragout. 

Fried, Broiled. 



Head, scalded, (dO to 60 cts. each) Broiled plain. Hash. 

Beef is plerUiest and cheapest from October to January; and hesi 
fiwn January to May, " 

Veal is best from JSprU to July, 

Mutton is best from October to Jane, 

Grass Lamb is best from June to Octobef. 

The Quality of Butcher Meat varies quite as much as (he price qf U 
'—according to its' age — how it has been fid — and especially h&w U hm9 
been treated the week before it has been kUled, 





PORK. 






Comes into Market. 


PlenUesL 


Roastiiig Piga 


May 


June, 


Quarter Fork 


July 


August. 


Spare Ribs and Chilis 


Aug, 


Nov. & Dec* 


Middlings 


salt, all ihe year. 




Bacon Hama 


November, and continue allthe ye«r. 




POULTRY. 






Comes into Market. 


PlwHest. 


Chickens 


July 


Nov. 


Fowls 


All the year 


do* 


Ducks 


July 


October. 


Geese 


August 


Nov. 


Turkeys 


September 


Nov. & Dec. 


Wild Ducks 


do. 


Oct, dt Apr, 


Brants 


April 


May. 


Partridges 


September 


October. 


Quails 


do. 


January. 


Woodcocks 


July 


August. 



Obs, — Poultry is in greatest perfection, when in greatest plenty. 

The price of it varies as much as the size and quality of it^ cmd Ike 
supply at mMrkety and the demand fwr it. 

It is generally dearest from March to July, and cheapest ahout Sep- 
temher, when the Qam>e season commences, and' the weaiher being cotdeff 
aUaws of its being brought from more distant parts. 



MARKXTINO. tSXf 

T%e ah&ve vtformatwn will, wt tnutj he very acceptable to ISeonomi- 
eal FamUieSy whoj frmn hearing the very high price Poultry »omeUme9 
€09tSy are deterred from ever inquiring about it. In the cheap seacont 
we have noted, it is cometimes as cheap as Butcher^meat, 

Those who pay (he highestj do not always pay the dearest, price. In 
fact, the"^ Best Meat is the cheapest ; and those who treat a tradesman 
liberally, have a much better chance qf being weU served, than those who 
are forever bargaining for the Market Penny, In dividing the Joints^ 
there is always an opporttaiity of apportioning the Bonos, JFai, Flaps, 
ifc. so as to make up a variation ^ much more than a penny per pound 
in most pieces ; and a Butcher wiil be happy to give the turn of his kntfe 
in favor of that Customer who oheerfuUy pays the fair price of (he arti- 
cle he purchases ; have those who are unwilling to do so any reason to 
complain f Have they not invited such conduct, 

DIRECTIONS FOR dTRBIG AND COOKINO YIOKLED PIBH> 

The use o€ Pickled Fish, such as Mackerel, Salmon, Shad, kc. 
is becomiDg more general than formerly, and would be still more 
extensive if the proper mode of preparing them for the table was 
better understood. These fish constitute not only a salutary diet, 
but in many cases makes a very beneficial change in our food. 

Whoever will give the following directions a fair trial will be- 
come sensible of their value: — 

First. The fish should be kept covered by the pickle by means 
of a flat stone or slate, laid on them. The oil, or animal fat, 
which floats on the top of the cask, should not be removed, as it 
prevents the fish from rusting; but in taking the fish from the 
barrel or keg, this oil ought to be put aside, care being taken not 
to let the fish touch it. Secondly — The fish should be washed 
clean, then put to soak in a large quantity of water for eight or 
ten hours, with the fle^ side down. The time of soaking may be 
varied to suit the palate. It must again be washed clean, put it 
to soak six or eight hours in milk, (if you bave it) then dry it by 
the fire. Thirdly — When dry lay it on the gridiron, with the flesh 
side downward, over pretty lively coals, for five minutes, or till k 
is moderately browned, then turn it with a plate, or some flat in- 
strument that will not break the skin, and let it remain over the 
coals ten or fifteen ininutes, or till it is cooked sufliciently. Slide 
it ofi* the gridiron into the dish, and strip ofi* the backbone with a 
broad knife: pat the fish, to cause the thick part of the fish to 
absorb the fat from the belly part ; use no butter — ^then you will 
enjoy all the flavor and juices of the fish. 

If a Mackerel or Shad so prepared does not relish, it must be 
more the fault of the palate, than of the food. How many arti- 
cles, capable of being made into excellent dishes, are lost or 
spoked from want of care and skHl in dressing them. 

* As the whole beauty of pickled Fish depends upon the right method of cooking it, we 
iBMit by itself the receipt of Capt. Henry Purkitt, Massachusetts Inspector of Fish, who 
obligingly handed it to the Editor. 



TABLE 

OF 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Bj which persons not having scales and weights at hand may 
readily measure the articles wanted to form any receipt, without 
the trouble of weighing. Allowance to be made for any ex-> 
traordinary dryness or moisture of the article weighed or meas- 
ured. 



WEIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Eggs - . • 

Brown sugar 
White f?ugar, powdered 
Loaf-sugar, broken 
Butter — ^when soft - 
Indian meal 
Wheat flour 



ten eggs are - one pound 

one pound, two ounces, is one quart, 

one pound, one ounce, is one quart, 

one poimd is - - one quart, 

one pound is - - one quart, 

one pound, two oimces, is one quart, 

one pound is - - one quart. 



LIQUIDS. 



Four large table-spoonfuls are 
Eight large table-spoonfuls are 
Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are 



half a gill, 
one gill, 
half a pint. 



A common-sized wine-glass 
A common-sized tumbler holds 



half a gill, 
half a pint. 



THE ART OP CARTING; 

WITH HINTS ON 

THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER TABLE. 



Without a perfect knowledge of the art of Garring, it ia impoeaible to perform tha 
honors of the table with propriety ; and nothing can be more disagreeable to one of a 
seasitiye disposition, thiui to behold a person, at the head of a well-fumiahed board, 
hacJung the finest joints, and giving them the appearance of having been gnawed by 

It also merits attention in an economical point of view—a bad canrer will mangle 
jmnts so as not to be able to fill half a dozen plates from a sirloin of beef, or a lar|(e 
tongue ; which, besides creating a great difference in the daily consumption in fami- 
lies, oAen occasions disgust in delicate persons, causing them to loathe tne provisions, 
however good, which are set before them, if helped in a clumsy manner. 

I cannot, therefore, too strongly urge tne study of this useful branch of domestic 
economy ; and I doubt not that whoever pays due attention to the following instruc- 
tions, will, after a little practice, without which all precept is unavailing, speedily 
acguire the reputation of being a good carver. 

1 have prefixed a few Hints on the Etiquette of the Dinner Table, which I trust 
will be found useful. In that, however, much must be left to a auick and observant 
eye, and a determination to render yourself as agreeable as possible. 



HINTS ON THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER 
TABLE. 



Thb important day on which you feast your friencts being arrived, you wUl be duly 
prepared to receive the first detachment. It were almost needless to observe that 
the Drief interval before dinner is announced may be easily filled up by the common- 
place inquiries after health, and observations on the weather; as the company 
mcreases, provided they were previously acquainted, you will find your labors in 
keeping up the conversation very agreeably diminishea. 

While your euests are awaiting the announcement of dinner, it will be expedient 
that you snouldf intimate to the gentlemen of the party, as unobtrusively as possible, 
which lady you wish each to take in charge, that, when the moment arrives for your 
adjournment to the dining-room, there may not be half a dozen claimants for the 
honor of escorting la plus belle of the party, while some plain demoiselle is under the 
painful necessity of escoitinz herself. Such a scene as this should be carefully pro- 
vided against b^ the mode above suggested. *, 

When dinner is announced, you will rise and request jour friends to proceed to tfie. 
dining-room, yourself leading the way, in company with your most distinguished 
female visitor, followed immediately by the hostess, accompanied by the gentleman 
who has the best claim to such an honor. The remainder of the guests then follow, 
each gentleman accompanied by the lady previously pointed out to him. 

D 



XXXYIU CARVING. 



ArriTed at the dining-room, you will leanest the lady whom you conducted to take 
her seat on your ri^ht hand j then, standing behind your chair, you will direct all 
your visitors to their respectiye seats. 

Havinff taken your seat, you will now di8|>atch soup to each of your giiests, from the 
pile of plates placed on your ri^ht hand, without questioning any whether you shall 
help them or not ; but, dealing it out silently, you will first help the person at your 
right hand, then at your leA, and so throughout the table. 

Of course, you will carve the meats yourself, or why did you buy this book 7 
surely, not with the intention of teaching your servants now to perform that impoi^- 



tant duty. You will not ask to be allowed to help your guests, but supply a plate ia 
silence, and hand it to your servants, who will oner it to such of the company as are 
unprovided. Never oner soup or fish a second time. 

If a dish be on the table, some parts of which arc preferred to others, according to 
the taste of individuals, all should have the opportunity of choice. You will simply 
ask each one if he has any preference for a pu^ticular part ; if he replies in the nega- 
tive, you are not to repeat tne question, nor msist that he must have a pfeference. 

Do not attempt to eulogize your dishes, or apologize that you cannot recommend 
them,— this is extreme bad taste; as also is the vaunting of the excellence of your 
wines, &c., &c. 

Do not insist upon your guests partaking of particular dishes. Do not ask persons 
more than once, and never force a supply upon their plates. It is ill-bred, ti^ooeh 
common, to press any one to eat ; and, moreover, it is a great annoyance to be 
craromea like turkeys. 

Neither send away your plate, nor relinquish your knife and fork, till your guests 
have finished. 

Soup being removed, the gentleman who supports the lady of the house on her 
right should request the honor of taking wine with her; this movement will be the 
ainial for the rest. Should he neglect to do this, you must challenge some ladj. 

Until the cloth be removed, you must not drink wine except with another. Itytrtt 
are asked to take wine, it is a breach of etiquette to refuse. In performing this 
ceremony (which is very agreeable if the wine be ^ood) you catch tne person's eye, 
and bow politely. It is not necessary to say anything. 

If you have children, never introduce them alter dinner, unless particularly asked 
for, and then avoid it if possible. 

Never make any observations to your servants at dinner, other than to request 
them to provide you with what you require, or to take away that which may be 
removed. 

With the dessert, you will have a small plate, two wine-glasses, and doyleys, 
placed before each guest. If fresh fruit be on the table, as pears, apples, nectarines, 
&c., a knife with a silver or silver-plated blade should oe placed by the side of each 
plate; a steel blade, in addition to being discolored by the jmoes, imparts an 
unpleasant flavor to the fruit. 

▲8 GUX0T. 

To dine out, it is usually understood that you must be invited ; there are, however, 
some gentlemen! who have attained to that high decree of refinement which enables 
them to dispense with such a stupid ceremony. They drop in as dinner is being 
served up, when it is impossible that the party on whom they intrude can do other 
than request them to stay and dine, though we suspect he has a much stronger tneii- 
natlen to kick the unwelcome guest into the street. 

We woutV recommend you to eschew such practices ; but when invited, return an 
answer in plain terms, accepting or declining. If you accept, be there at the time 
appointed. It is inconvenient, on many accounts, to yourself and to your friends, 
eitner to be too late or too early. 

You will probably have to wait a little time before dinner is announced , During 
this short period, render yourself as agreeable as possible to the assembled company. 

Your host will doubtless point out to you the lady he wishes you to escort to the 
dining-room. You will be in readiness to attend upon her the moment you are 
summoned to adjourn. Ofier her your right arm, and follow in order. Should you 
bare to pass down stairs, you will give the lady the wall. You will take your seat 
9k the taole on the right hand of the lady you conducted. 

Being seated, soup will be handed round. When offered, take it ; but if you 
inrefer 6sh, pass it on to your neighbor. You must not ask for soup or fish a second 
time ; it will not be ofieied—you would not be so rude or selfish as to keep the com- 
pany waiting for the second course, that you may have the pleasure of demolishing 
a double portion offish. 



CARVUIO. XXZfal 

Fbh most b« eaten #ith a silTer fork, as the acid in the sauee, acting oo the iteal 
of an ordinary fork, giTes an unpleasant flavor to the dish. For this reason, also, a 
knife should not be used in eating fish. 

If asked whether you hare a preference for any dish, or any particolar part of a 
dish, answer plainly and distinctly as yon wish. 

Pay as much attention to your companion on yoor left as politeness requires, b«l 
do not be unnecessarily officious. People do not like to be stared at when eating. 

When you are helped to anything, do not wait until the rest of the oompanv an 
provided. This is Tery common in the country, but shows a want of good breeoiag. 

Do not allow your plate to be overloaded with a multifarious assortment of Teg*- 
tables, but rather confine yourself to one kind. When you take auother sort of 
meat, or a dish not properly a vegetable, you must change your plate. 

If yon have the honor of sitting on the right hand of the hostess, you will, imma- 
diately on the removal of soup, request the honor of taking wine witn her. 

Finally, to do all these things well, and to be au fait at a dinner party, be perfectlr 
at your ease. To be at ease is a great step towards enjoying your own dinner, ami 
making yourself agreeable to the company. Fancy yourself at home ; perlbfmiaf 
all the ceremonies without any apparent efibrt. For the rest, observation and joor 
own judgment will be the best guide, and render you perfect in the etiquette oi tha 
dinner table. 



THE ART OF CARVING. 

br Carving, your knife should not be too heavy, but of a sufficient size, and keen 
edge. In usmg it, no great personal strength is required, as constant practice will 
render it an easy task to carve the most difficult articles } more depending on address 
than force. 

The dish should be sufficiently near to enable the carver to reach it without rising, 
and the seat should be elevated so as to give command over the joint. 

Show no partialitv in serving, but let each person at table have a share of aoeh 
articles as are considered best, for however you conciliate the one you fcvor, you 
imut bear in mind that you make enemies of the other guesu. 

SECTION L 



requires very little carving; it should be carefully helped with a fish-slice, which not 
bemg sharp, prevents the flakes from being broken, and in Salmon and Cod these are 
large and add much to their beauty. A portion of the roe, milt, or liver, ab^nld ha 
given to each person. 




is niely sent to the table whole, but a piece cut from the middle of a large fish, which 
is the best flavored part of it. Make an incision along the back, 1-2, and another 
frmn 5 to 6 ; then divide the side about the middle, in the line 3-4 ; cut the thickest 
part, between 1-3, 2-4, for the lean, the remainder for the fat ; ask which is preferred, 
and help as the fancy of your guests may demand. When the fish is very thick, do 
not venture too near the bone, as there it has an ill flavor and is discolored. 



in paying your respects to a whole Salmon, you will find the choice parts next the 
head, the thin part next ; the tail is considered less savory. 



CARVIlfG. 




MACKEKEL. 



then 



In helping, first cut off the head, at 1, as that part is very inferior and nnstLTorf, 
en divide down the hack, and give a side to eacn ; if less is asked for, the thickest 



end, which is the most choice, should be served. Inauire if the roe is liked ; it may 
be found between 1 and 2. T^at of the female is hard, of the male soft. 



CARP, PERCH, HADDOCK, ETC., 



will be easily helped by attending to the foregoing directions. The head of the Carp 
is esteemed a delicacy, which should be borne in mind. 




COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. 

Introduce the fish-slice at 1, and cut quite through tlse !)ack, as far as 2, then help 

E'eces from between 3 and 4, and with each slice give a portion of the sound, whicn 
les the under side of the back bone. It is thin, and of a darker color than the other 
part of the fish, and is esteemed a delicacy. 

Some persons are partial to the tongue and palate, for which you must insert a 
spoon into the mouth. The ielly part is about the jaw, the firm part within the head, 
on which are some other delicate pickings ; the finest portions may be found ahoot 
the shoulders. 




The under side of this fish is the most esteemed, and is placed uppermost on the 
dish. The fish-slice must be introduced at 1, and an incision made as ikr as 2 ; then 
cut from the middle, which is the primest part. After helpine the whole of that side, 
the upper part must be attacked, and as it is difficult to divide the back bone, raise 
it with the fork, while you separate a portion with the fish-slice; this part is mor^ 
solid, and is preferred by some, though it is less delicate than the under side. The 
fins are esteemed a nicety, and should be attended to accordingly. 

BRILL, SOLES, PLAICE, 

9nd JUU fish in general, may be served in the same manner as a Turbot. 



I 



CASTIir«. 



Bb 



SECTION U. 

jonrra. 



In lielpiiig the more ileehy joiiits, each as e Sirlom of Beef, Leff of MiitU»2 FiOel 



of Veal, cut thio smooth slices, and let the kniie pass through to the bones of 
and Beef. 

It woold prerent much trouble, if the joints of the loin, neck, and breast, were cut 
duDo^ by the butcher proTious to the cooking, so that when sent to table thej may 
easily be serered. Should the whole of the meat belonging to each bone be too thick, 
one or more slices may be taken off from between erery two bones. 

In some boiled MMnts, roond and aitch-bone of beef for instance, the water renders 
the oatsides vapio, and of course unfit to be eaten ; you will therefore be particular t» 
cut off and lay aside a thick slice fiom the top, beJBne you begin to serre. 




SHOVLOEB OP MUTTOH. 



Cut m to the bone at the line 1, and help thin slices of lean from each side of the 
incision ; the prime part of the &t lies at the outer edge, at 2. 

Sioald more meat be required than can be got from that part, cut on either side of 
the line 3, which represents the blade bone, and some good and delicate slices may be 
procored. By cnttmg horizontally from the under side, many '* nice bits " will be 
obtained. 




LSO or MinTON. 



The finest part is situated in the centre, at 1, between the knuckle and farther end; 
the knife there, and cut thin, deep slices each mj, as far in as 2. The out- 



side rarely being very fiit, some neat cats may be obtained off the broad end, at 3. 
The knucne of a fine leg^is tender, though dry, and many prefer it, altbough the 
other is the most juicy. There are some sood cuts on the broad end of the back of 
the leg, from which slices may be procured lengthways. 

The cramp bone is by some esteemed a delicacy ; to get it out, cut down to the 
AighboBe, at 4, and pass the knife under it in a semiaircttlar course, is 6. 



BAUNCR OP MtrrroK 

eonrists of the leg and part of the lorn, cot so as to resemble a Haunch of YtaisoD. 
It muat be hobed at taMe in a similar manner. 

D* 



zlii cARvmott 



■ADDLE OP MVTTQV. 

This is mn excellent joint, and produces many nice bits. Cut the whole length of 
it close to the back bone, and take off some long thin slices in that direction. The 
upper division consists of lean ; the fat may be easily got at by cutting from the left 

SUM. 

LOIS OF MUTTOH. 

As the bones of this joint are divided, it is very easily managed. Begin at the nar- 
row end and take off the chops ; when the joints are cut through, some slices of meat 
may be obtained between the bones. 




POBB dVABTEB OF LAMB. 

First divide the shoulder from the scoven, which consists of the breast and ribs, 
by passing the knife under the knuekle, in the direction of 1, 2, 3, and cutting so as 
to leave a fair portion of m#at on the ribs ; lay it on a separate dish, and squeeze the 
juice of half a Seville orange over the other part, which, afier being sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, should be divided in the line 3-4. This will separate the ribs from 
the ffristly part, and you may help from either, as may be chosen, cutting as directed 
by tie lines 6, 6. 

BHOULDEa OF LAMB 

must be carved like a shoulder of mutton, of which it is a miniature edition. 

LEO OF LAMB. 

Fdlow the directions given for leg of mutton, at page xli. 

LOIN OF LAMB 

nAiy be helped similar to a loin of mutton, f See loik of mutton.) This, and the 
two foregomg, being small joints, should be helped sparingly, as tluBre is very little 
meat on them, especially when first in season. 




AITCH-BONE OF BEEF. 



Cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the entire surface^ as marked 1 >2, then help. 
There are two sorts of fat to this joint, and, as tastes difier, it is necessary to lean 
which {s preferred. The solid hi will be found at 3. and must be cut horizontally ; 
the softer, which resembles marrow, at the back of the bone, below 4. 

A silver skewer should be substituted for the one which keeps the meat properly 
ti^ether while boiling, and it may be withdrawn when you caX down to it. 



ttxmn^ 



mM 




BIBLOIN or BSXP. 



There mre two modes of helping this joint. The better wav is hj earring lon^ thiA 
slices from I to 2 ; the other way is by cutting it across, wnich, nowever, sjwils it. 
The most tender and prime part is in the direction of the line 3 ; there will also be 
fimnd some delicate fik, part of which should be giTen with each piece. 



BIBS or BEEP 



maj be canred similar to the Sirloin, always commencing at the thin end of the joint, 
ana cotting long slices so as to giTe fat and lean together. 



ROUND OP BUP. 



This joint is so very easy to attend to, that we have not deemed it necessary to 
give a curawing of it ; it onlj requires^ steady hand and a sharp knife. The upper 
surface being remoTed, as directed for the aitch-bone of beef, carre thin slices, and 
give a portion of fat with each. 

You must cut the meat as even as possible, as it is of consequence to p reserre the 
beauty of its appearance. 




A TovauB. 



Cut nearly through the middle, at the line 1. and take thin slices from each side. 
The fiit is situated underneath, at the root of the tongue. 




A OALP^ HXAD. 

Cut thin slices from 1 to 2, and let the knife penetrate to the bone. At the thick 
part of the neck end, 3, the throat sweetbread is situated ; carve slices from 3 to 4, 
and help with the other part. Should the eye be asked for, it must be extracted^with 
the point of the knife, and a portion given. The palate, esteemed a delicacy, is^situ- 
atea under the head, and some fine lean may be found by removing the jaw-bone j, 
portions of each of these should be helped round. 



zfif 



cAAvma* 



A LOIN or TXAL 



should be jointed preTious to being sent to table, wiieB esch division may be easilT 
cat throttgn with a knife. The hi surrounds the kicbiey, and portions of Wiik should 
be giTen with the other parts. 




A BBSAST or VEAL 



is oompesed of the ribs and brisket, which must be separated by cutting through the 
line 1-2 ; the latter is the thickest and has gristles. Divide each portion into conva- 
nieiU pieces, and proceed to help. 




FILLET or VEAL 



resembles a round of beef, and should be carved similar to it, in thin and very i 
slices, off the top; cut deep into the flap, between 1 and 2, for the stuffing, and help 
a portion of it to each person. 
Slices of lemon are always served with this dish. 



HAND or poax. 



Cut thin slices from this delicate joint, either across near the knuckle, or from the 
blade bone, as directed for a shoulder of mutton. This forms a nice dish for a tete- 
a-tete dinner; there is not sufficient for a third person. 



'^a^ 




As this is usually divided as above, before sent to table, little remains to be done 
by the carver. First separate a shoulder from the body, and then the leg; divide the 
ribs into convenient portions, and send round with a sufficiency of the stuffing and 
gravy. Many prefer the neck end between the shoulders, although the ribs are con- 
sidered the finest part; but as this all depends on taste, the question should be pat. 
The ear is reckoned a delicacy. 

Should the head not be divided, it must be done, and the brains taken out, and 
mixed with the gravy and stuffing. 



A LOIN or POBK 

is cut up in the same manner as a loin of Mutton. See page xli. 



CABvara. 




UM OP FOBK. 



Commeiice earring aboBt midway, between the knnclle and Arther 
thin deep slices from either side of the line 1 . For the seasoning in % 
a 19, and it will be Idond onder the skin al the large end. 



and cat 




The nsaal mode of earring this joint, is by long delicate slices, throogh the thick 
fiit, in the direction 1-2, laymg open the bone at each cut, which brings yon to the 
prime nart at once. A more saving way is to commence at the knuckle and proceed 
onwards. 

Some pmons take out a ronnd piece at 3, and enlarge the hole, by catting thin 
cirenlar slices with a sharp knife. This keeps the meat moist, and p ies e rres the 
Siavy, bat seldom looks handsome. 



SECTION m. 

POULTKY, OAMS, BTa 



The carving-knife for ponltry is smaller and lighter than the meat carrer; the 
poiat is more peaked and the handle longer. 

In cutting up a Torkey, Goose, Dndt, or Wild Fowl, more orime pieces may be 
obtained by earring slices from innion to pinion, without makmg wings ; tius is an 
advantage when yonr party is large, as it makes the bird go &rther. 




, It will be mere convenient in carvine this to take it on yonr plate, and lay the 
joints, as divided^ neatly on the dish. Fix your fork in the nuddle of the breast, and 
take the wing off in the direction of 1 -2 ; divide the joint at 1, lift up the pinion with 
yoar fork, and draw the wing towards the leg, which will separate the fleshy part 
jnore naturally than by the knife; cat between the leg and body at 3 to the bone, 9, 



give the blade a sudden turn, and the joint will break i^ the fowl is not oM. When 
a similar operation is performed on the Qther side, take off the merrythonght, by cut^ 
ting in to tne bone at 4, find turning it back, which will detach it ; ne^ remoTe the 
neck bones and divide the breast from the back, by cutting through the whole of the 
ribS) close to the breast. Turn up th»back, press the; point of the knife about half 
way between the tiecl^and rump, and on raismg the lower end it will separate easily. 
Turn the ramp fsom: you, take off the sidesmen, and the operation is complete. 

The breast and wings are the m^st delicate parts, but the leg is more juicy in a 
young bird. Great care shquld be taken to cut the wings as handsome as possible. 



The iaiMt parts of this bird «re^the breast and wings; the latter will bear scmie 
delicate slices being taken. off. After the fore quarters jure severed, the thighs mmt 
be divided from the drumsticks, which, beio^ tough, should be reserved till last. 
In other respect^, a turkey must be dealt with exactly as recommended for a fowl, 
except that it has no merrythought. 

Give a portidnjof the stuffing or forced-meat, which is inside the breast, to each 
person. 

A PARTRIDOB 

is cut up in the samfi manner as a fowl, only, on account of the smaUness of the bird, 
the merrythought is seldom divided from the breast. The wings, breast, and merry- 
thought.. are the finest parts of it, but the wing is considered the best, and the tip of 
it is f^clcnned the most delicious morsel of the whole. 




A PHEASANT. 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast, and make incisions to the bone at 1>2; 
then taike off the leg in the line 3-4, and the wing at 3-5 ; serve the other side in the 
same manner, and separate the slices you had previously divided on the breast* In 
taking off the wings, be careful not to venture too near the neck, or you will hit on 
the neck bone, from which the wing should be divided. Fass die knife thrqugh the 
line 6, and under the merrythought towards the neck, wluch will detach it. The 
other parts may be served as directed for a fowl. 

The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most delicate parts, although the 
leg has a higher flavor. 

WOODCOCKS, OBOVSB, ETC. 

are carved similar to a fowl, if not too small, when they may be cut in quarters and 
helped. 
Sbipes, being smaller, should be divided in halves. 




The nsual way of carvuig these birds is to insert the knife at 1 , and cut to 2 and 3, 
when each portion may be divided into two pieces and helped ; sometimes they are 
cot in halves, either across or down the middle, but as the lower part is thought the 
best, the first mode is the fairest. 

Saould they be very large and fine, they may be served 4ihe ibwls. 



tDAS¥IM» 





Take off the wing by putting the fork into 
it close to the body ; divide the joint at 1 with 
RonoTe the leg by cutting in the direction 
drumstick ; then sever the limbs on the o * 
each side of the breast, between the lines a 

To get at the stuffing, the apron must ' 
It is rarely necessary to cut up the whole 

but the merrythought may be taken off: there are two aide booes by thr vini^, fthi^ 
may be cut off, as lUcewise the back, and lower sidebooes. 
brnst and thighs. 



The bsi pieces arc lbs ^ 



Remove the legs and wings as directed abote for a goote, and cut some slieet 
from each side of the breast. The seasoning wiU be found under the flapf as in the 
other bird. Should it be necessary, the merrythought, sidebones, ^., can be de- 
tached in the same manner as recommended for a fowl. 




HAUNCH OP VBNISOK. 



First let out the gravy by cutting in to the bone across the joint at 1-2, then torn 
the broad end towarids you, make as deep an incision as you can from 3 to 4, and 
help thin slices from each side. The greater part of the fat. which is much esteeined, 
vill be found on the left side, and those who carve must take care to proportion both 
it and the gravy to the number of ihe company. 




Insert the point of the knife inside the shoulder at 1, and divide all the way down 
to the rump, at 2 : do the same on the other side, and you will have the hare m three 
pieces. Pass the knife under the rise of the shoulder, at 2-1, to take it off; the leg 
may be severed in a similar manner : then behead it — cut off the ears close to the 
roots, and divide the upper from the lower jaw. Next place the former flat on a 
plate, put the point of the knife into the forehead, and divide it through the centre 



down to the nose. Cut the bade into oonvenient portions, ley the pieces neatlv on 
the dish, and proceed to serre the company, giving soae stuffing (which will be 
found in the inside) and gruTy taeach person. 

The prime parts are the back and lees ; the ears are considered a Inznry by somes 
as are the head and brains : they may be distribated to those that like them. 

Should the hare not be very tender, it will be difficult to diride the sides from the 
back, but take on* the legs by cutting through the ioints, which you must endeavor 
to hit. You will then be able to cut a few slices from each side of the back. Next 
disscTer the shoulders, which are called the sportsman'^ joints, and are preferred 
by many. The back, &c., may then be barred as directed above. 



The directions ibr cutting up a hare will be amply sufficient to enable the carver to 
dispose of this animal. Tne oest part is the shoulders and back, which must be 
divided into three or four pieces, according to its size. The head should not be givea 
unless asked for. , 



THS 



COOK^S OWN BOOK. 



ALM 

ABERDEEN CRULLA. (SeeCaket,) 

ALAMODE BEEF. iSee Betf.) 

ALAMODE VEAL. (S« F«i/.) 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (1) 
Take half a poond of Jordan almondB, lay 
tfaoD in cold water sdl night; the next morn- 
ing blanch them in cold water ; then take tliem 
out and dry tliem in a cl jan cloth, beat them 
very fine in a little orange flower water ; then 
take six ^gs, leave out four whites, with a 
little b«Lten mace; beat them weO in a mar- 
ble mortar ; take ten ounces <^ fi^esh butter, 
ndt it, add a little grated lemon-peel, and 
put them in the mortar with the other ingre- 
dients; mix all well together and fill your 
patty-pans, having lined them with thin puff 



ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (2) 
Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, 
and a few bitter with a spoonful of water ; 
then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a 
qmmful of cream, and the whites of two eggs 
well beaten; mix all as quick as possible; 
put into very small patty-pans, and bake in 
a pretty warm oven twenty minutes. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (3) 
Blanch six ounces of sweet, and half ^ ounce 
of bitter almonds; let them lie half an hour 
in a drying stove, or before the fire; poinni 
them very fine in a mortar, with two table- 
spooofids of rose water, to prevent them from 
oiling*; set into a stew-pan half a pound of 
fresh batter; set it in a warm place, and 
cream it vary smooth with the hand, and add 
it to the almonds, with six ounces of sifted 
knf sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, some 
good cream, and four eggs; rub all well to- 
gether with the pestle; cover a patty-pan 
with puff paste; fill in the mixture; orna- 
ment it with slices of candied lemon-peel and 
almonds i^>lit, and bake it half an hour in a 
brisk oven. 

ALMOND CONSERVE, BURNT. 
Bhnch and cut six ounces of sweet almonds 
into small strips, lay them on paper and put 
diem into aa oven; when they are brown. 



ALM 

take them out, and throw them into 
pounds of sugar boiled to pefU comm, i 
the mixture well until it b^ins to blow, i 
then poiflr it into paper < 



ALMONDS, ENGLLSH FASHION. 

Mix almonds and filberts sca'ded in eqial 
quantities ; chop one lialf \tiry fine, cut tlw 
rest each into two or tltfee slices ; put ths 
whoks in double tlieir weight of ragary 
prppaj-ed by boiling it with some lemon- 
necu rasped; stir iTie almonds very well 
in the sugar, taking it off the fire, and 
add one or two whites o( eggs; pour it ia 
paper large enough to contain Uie whole, and 
cut it in slices for use as you think proper, 
when baked as usual. 

ALMOND FRAZE. Blanch a pound 
of Jordan abnonds, and steep them in a pint 
of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of eggs ; 
take out the almonds and pound them fine in 
a marble mortar; then mix them agam in 
tlie cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated 
bread, and stir tliem all together ; then pitt 
some fiesh butter into tlie pan, let it be hot 
and pour it in, stirring it in tlie pan till tliey 
nre of a sutiicient consistence; and when 
enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over 
it, and serve it up. 



ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch 1 
quarters of a pound of sweet abnonds, pour 
over them tliree table-spoonfiils of ruse water, 
and in a quarter of an hour a pint of cream ; 
let them stand two or three hours, tlien pound 
tliem in a moitar till they become quite a 
paste ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, two 
or tluree pounded NajMes biscuit; sweeten 
with pounded k>af sugar, and mix all well 
together ; melt a quarter of a pound of fi-esh 
butter in a frying-})an, and when hot, pour in 
the mixture, and stir it constantly till thick, 
and of a light brown color. Serve it with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

ALMOND BROWN GINGER^ 

BREAD. Beat a quarter of a pound of 

blanched almonds with thin gum-water, a 

i few drops of lemon-juice, a little powdered 

I, c d some gingvH* finely grated and 



ALM 



ANC 



leered to give it a brown color; sweeten 
And smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut 
It into squares; dry it in a stove or before 
the fire. 

ALMOND ICEING, for Bride Cake. 
Tlie whites of six eggs, a'poundapd a half 
of double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan 
ahnonds blanched and pounded with a little 
rose water ; mix altogether and whisk it well 
for an hour or two, hy it over the cake and 
put it in the oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, BITTER. 
Take a pound of bitter almonds, rub them 
well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste 
with the whites of three or four ^sr^ ; then 
put them into an eartlien pan witn three 
pounds of powderHsugar, mix them together 
well, and if die paste should be too dry, 
moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on 
■heets of paper in lumps about fhe size of a 
wahiut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, SWEET, 

Are done in the same way. But two pounds 
of sugar are sufficient for a pound of almonds. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP. Takelialfa 
pound of sweet almonds, put them on the fire 
with some water until near boiling, then 
blanch and throw them into fi'esh water; 
drain and pound them. Boil a pint of wa- 
ter, a littb sugar, salt, cinnamon, coriander, 
and lemon-peel, for a quarter of an hour, and 
rub the almonds throng a sieve to this. Lay 
some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and 
pour tlie milk of almonds on it, as hot as 
possible without boiling. 

ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch two ounces 
of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with 
orange fiower water, whisk the whites of 
three eggs to a high firodi, strew in a little 
nfled sugar, mix die almonds with the su^ 
and eggs, and add more sugar till as thick 
as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on 
paper in a cool oven. 

ALMOND RICE. Blanch «weet al- 
monds« and pound them in a marble mortar; 
mix them in a little boiling water; press 
them as long as there is milk in the.almonds, 
adding fi^esh water every time; to eveiy 
quart of almond-juice, put a quarts* of a 
pound of rice and two teaspoonsfiil of orange 
flower water; mix them all together, and 
■inmier it over a slow charcoal fire; stir it 
repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at 
pleasure; serve it with beaten cinnamon 
■trewed over. 

ALMOND ROLLS, BITTER. Blanch 
and pound eight ounces of almonds five of 



sweet and thiee of bitter) to a very 6a» 
paste; then place eight ounces of flour on 
your slab; make a bob in the middle, and 
py t into it eight ounces of powd^-sugar, the 
yolks of four eggs, and a grain of san; mix 
them all well togetlier into a firm smoota 
pa<9te ; roll it out and cut it into four equal 
pai;ts ; roll each piece to the same length ; 
cut theuL into pieces about the size of a wal- 
nut, and form them to the shape of a wild 
turnip, and as yon do them put them on a 
baking-tin lightty butteiied ; dorez them and 
bake tliem of a proper color in a moderate 
oven. When they are txiken firom the oven, 
let them stand a little while to dry. 

ALMOND PUDDING. (See Pud~ 
ding.) 

ALMOND TUMBLES. Blanch and 
pound three ounces of almonds very fine, 
wlien almost beaten enough, take the white 
of an egg beaten to fi-oth, one pound of dou- 
ble-refined sugar well beaten, and put it in 
by degrees, working it into a paste with your 
hands, roll it out and bake it oa buttered 
plates in a hot oven. 

AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. {See 
Blancmange.') 

AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take 

half a pound of fresh butt^ melted, one pound 
and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of pounded ginger, nine eggs, the yolks and 
whites separately beaten, one glass of rose 
water, and one of white wine ; mix all these 
well together, and beat it for an hour; th^i 
with a spoon spread it over flat tin nans, 
about die thickness of a penny-piece; Ixike 
it of a light brown, and while warm, cut it 
into oblong pieces, and place them on end 
till cool, when they will be veiy crisp. 

AMERICAN VINEGAR. {See Ft»- 
egar.) 

AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. Boil 

some rice in milk till it be swelled and soft; 
pare and carefiilly scoop out the core of five 
or six good-sized'apples, put into each a lit- 
tie grated lemon^jeel and cinnamon ; place 
as much of the rice upon a bit of linen as 
will entirely cover an apple, and tie each close- 
ly. Boil them two hours, and so-ve thsea 
with melted batter, sweetened with sugar. 

ANCHOVIES Wash half a dozen an- 
diovies, and take the meat from die bones; 
cut them into four fillets, place them on a 
dish with some sweet herbie, cut small ; and 
the volks and whites of hard eggs, also cut 



f 



ANC 

ANCHOVY BUTTER. Wash your 
aaeboTies carefully, take out the bodes, and 
diy them; then pound them in a mortar 
aBtfl they are reduced toapaate; and mix 
duB paste with double the quantity of finesh 



ANCHOVIES, BUITER OF. Wash 
fiom the pickle some fine young anchoTies, 
bone, and take off the heads, then pound them 
in a mortar with fi-esh biitter till quite smooth, 
and lub it through a sieve. 

ANCHOVY PASTE. Poimd them iif a 
mortar, then rub it through a fine sieve ; pot 
it, cover it with clarified butter, and keep it 
in a cool place. If you have essence (^ancho- 
vy, you may make anchovy paste extempore, 
by rubbing the essence with sa much flour as 
will make a paste. 3Iem, — ^This u merely 
mentioned as the meaiis of making it imme- 
diately; it will not keep. 

ANCHOVY POWDER. Pound the fish 
m a mcNTtar, rub them through a sieve, and 
make them into a paste with dried flour, roU 
it into thin cakes, and dry them in a Dutch 
oven before a slow fire; nounded to a fine 
powder, and put into a well-stopped bottle, it 
will ke^ fi>r years; it 'u a \ery savoury 
relish, sprinkled on bread and butter fi>r a 
sandwich, &c. See Oyster Powder. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (1) Cutstme 
diin slices of bread about the length and 
breadth of a finger; fiy them in oil. Place 
than on a dish, and poiv on them a sauce 
made of oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, 
s;»lli<Mi, and diallots, cut up toeeth»*. Then 
out die anchovies into thin dices, and lay 
than on the toast. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (2) Bone and 
wash the anchovies, pound them in a mortar 
with a little finesh butter ; rub them through a 
sieve and qxead them on a toast. You may 
add, while pounding the anchovies, a little 
made mustard and curry powder, or a few 
grains of Cayenne, or a httle mace or other 
spice. It may be made stiU more savoury, by 
fimng the toast in clarified butter. — N.B. 
KetBp your anchovies well covered; first tie 
down your jar with bladder moistened with 
vinegar, and then wiped dry; tie leather 
over that: when you open ajar, moisten the 
bladder, and it will come on easily ; as soon 
as you have taken out the fish, replace the 
coverings; the air soon rusts and spoils 
andiovies. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. fS) Bone and 
roll op two or three anchoivies, place them 
upon pieces of dry toast, and garnish with 
cnried parsley. 



I APP 

ANGELICA TO CANDY. Ctt ih» 

stalks when thick and tender, put them ob 
in boiling water, and when very tender, drain 
it off, ami throw them into com water; ped 
off the skin, and scald them in a thin sinip^ 
made with the same proportion of sugar that 
there is^fiiiit; heat it twice a day till the 
sirup is almost dried in, and then dry them 
under garden gfaues, or in a stove, and ton 
them twice a day. 

APPLES. Cboks, in choosing apples fv 
culinary purposes, should always be guided 
by the weisht, the heaviest being always tha 
best ; and mose are particularly to be takm, 
which, upon being pressed by the tbumby 
yield with a slight cracking noise. LarM 
apples possessing these qualities should M 
taken in preference to small ones, as thero 
is less waste in peeling and coring. 

APPLE BIJICK-CAP. (1) Divida 
twelve large apples in halves, core them, and 
place them on a thin patty-pnn or mazarine* 

auite close to each omer, with the flat side 
owowards; squeeze a lemon into two 
spoonfiils of orange flower water, which poor 
over them ; shred fine some lemon-peel, throw 
it over them, and grate fine sinar all over. 
Set them in a qtiick oven, and bake theB 
half an hour. When served, strew fine ■»• 
gar all over the dish. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (2) Para 
the apples, lay them in your pan, strew a few 
cloves over them, a littie lemon^-peel cut vera 
small, two or tliree blades of cmnamon, ana 
some coarse sugar ; cover the pan with brown 
paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and 
let it stand till the oven is cokl. 

APPLES, TO BAKE WHOLE. Put 
some sound and well chosen apples into a 
pail, with a small proportion of cloves, a 
little lemon-peel, some brown sugar, a glass 
Ot- more of red wine, according to die quan- 
tity of fivit ; put them into a quick ovoi, and 
bake them at least one hour. The sugar to 
be lim>^ according to the quality of the 
apples. 

APPLES, CHARLOTTE OF. (5«« 

Charlotte.) 

APPLE CHEESECAKES. Pare,cora, 
and boil twelve apples wi^h sufficient water 
to mash them ; beat them veir smooth, add 
six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, 
and some grat^ lemon-peel, half a pound of 
fresh butter beaten to a cream, and sweet- 
ened with powder sugar, beat it in with the 
apples. Bake in a puff crust and serve open. 



APPLES CLEAR. Boil half a 



APP 



AFP 



of loaf Busar in a pint of waier ; take off ijie 
Bcum, ana pot in some large apples, pared, 
oared, and cut into quarters, with the peel 
and juice of a lemon ; let them boiHill clear, 
without a covor upon the sauce^n. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (1) Cut some 
apples in half, core theui, prick the skins with 
a knife and tlirow them into cold water; 
then put tlieui into a pan with some clarified 
sugar, and stew them gently till tender; place 
the apples in a dish, and pour the sirup 
through a sieve over them. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (2) Pare and 
cut half a dozen fine apples in half, and put 
them into a pan wiih a little water and lemon- 
juice; then clarify lialf a pound of sugar, and 
when you have skiuuned it put in your apples, 
and the juice of a lemon ; turn the apples 
frequently. As soon as you find the fork will 
penetrate them, they ai-e sufficiently done, and 
may be taken out ; strain and reduce the 
syrup; strain it again, atid tlien pour it over 
your apples, which may be served eitlK»' hot 
or cold. Garnish with tlie peel of a very red 
apple, cut into various devices, and laid on 
the apples. 

APPLES , WHOLE. The proceeding is 
the same as tiie last, except tliat the apples, 
when pared, are nji divided, and the cores 
are taken out with a piercer. . 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. Pare and 

scoop out the core uf six lai^ baking apples, 
put part of a clove, and a little grated lem- 
pn-peel, inside of each, and enclose them in 
pieces of {xiff paflte; boil them in nets for 
the purpose, or bits of linen, for an lioiu*. 
Before ser\irig, cvt off a small bit from the 
top of each, and put in a tea-spoonflil of su- 
gar, and a bit of frtsli butter; replace the bit 
of paste, and strew over tliem pounded luaf 
sugar. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED. 

Make them in the same way, but instead of 
tJcing them in cl(;thd lay tliem in a iii'ttered 
dish and bake them. 

APPLES, DRIED OR BAKED. Al- 
ways choose the cleiuest of baking apples, 
prick them rather deep with a point43d knife 
m several places, and put them in a mode- 
rate oven upon a baking plate ; when half 
done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, 
strew them on both sides with powder susfar, 
and put them again into a soaking oven, 
with some more sugar ovor them. Keep 
dicm in a dry place. 

APPLES FESTOONED. Peel some 
golden pippins, core them whole, and stew 



them to three parts with sugar and a fftds 
water; make the sirup pretty rich to dog 
to the apples ; wrap them round with a tfaiii 
paste, cut with a paste-cutter, and make knots 
or flowers with the same paste to put on the 
top of the apples ; rasp some sugar over, and 
bake a vei'v short time. 

APPLE FLOATING ISLAN1>. 

Bake or scald eight or nine krge apples; 
when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, 
beat this up with fine sugar; put to it the 
whites of four or five eggs Uiat have been 
beaten with a little rose water; mix it a lit- 
tle at a time, and beat ittiU it is light; heap 
it on a rich custard or on jeDy. 

APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and cut 
into thin bits, some good stewins apples; 
stew tliem till tender, with a little wator, 
two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel 
of half a lemon ; pulp half a pound through a 
sieve, and add the same weight of brown sugaur, 
the juice of a lemon, and the whites of two 
eggs; beat them all togedier for an hoar. 
Serve it upon rich cream, cm* a boiled custardy 
m a glass dish. It may be made in the same 
way as the gooseberry foot, as may abo stew- 
ed rhubarb. 

APPLE FKAZE, Cat apples into thick 
slices, and fiy them of a clear light brown ; 
take them farora the pan, and lay. them to 
dram; they may be pared or not; then make 
a batter. Take five eggs, leaving out two 
whites, beat them up with cream or flour* 
and a little white wine, make it of the oon-> 
sistence of pancake batter; pour in a little 
melted butter, mixed with nutmeg and sugar. 
Let the butter be liot, and drop in the fi-itters, 
laying on every one a slice of aj^le, and then 
a spoonfiil of batter on each. Fry them of 
a pale brown, when taken up, strew double- 
refined sugar all over them. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (I) Beat the 

yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well 
together, strain Uieni into a pan ; then take 
a quart of cream, make ic moderat^ hot, 
and add two glasses of sack, three-quarters 
of a pint of ale, and mix them well tc^ther 
When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating 
it well together, then add nutmeg and ginger 
grated, salt and flour at pleasure. Tlie bat- 
ter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced 
apples, or scraped pippins, and fiy them quick 
m butter. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (2) Piire, 
core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak 
them for two or three bout's in brandy, su^ar* 
green lemon-peel, and orange flower wata-; 
when they have tfioroughly imbibed the fla- 
vor of these ingredients, curain, and put theui 



\ 



APP 



Brio a clodi weQ sprinkled with iloar» tmd 
ihke thein^o that the flour may adbone all 
over tiiem ; fi^ them of a good color, glaie 
vith flogar and a hot salamander. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (8) Stew 
vxot apples cot small, toeether with a little 
water, sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon; 
when fxAi add a little wiiite wine, the juice of 
klfalenian, and a bit of fresh hotter; when 
cold, mix them with a batter, as for Tun- 
bridge puffi, or endoee them in rounds of puff 
paste. Fry, andsenre them with sifted loaf 
Mgar o?er them. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (4) Fom-wefl- 
I eggs, half a pint of cream, two table 
Sils of yeast, three of white wine, and 
tiro of rose water; half a tea spoonful of gra^ 
tedimtoieff, andofsalt; make it mto a thick 
batter wim flour, peel and core two or three 
a|)f)lei, cut them into thin bits, and mix them 
with die batter; cover it oTor, let it stand, 
pboed near the fire, about an hour; drop it 
mto boiling lard, and serve them in a napkin 
witbwgar strewed over them. Gooseberries 
previooBly stewed may be done in the same 
way. 

APPLES, GLAZED. Peel a dozen of 
i^iples and l«ive the tails; gore at the oppo- 
ute side not quite through, aAd boil tliem 
widi half a pint of red wine, some sugar, 
•od a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly Umt 
they may not break ; when nearly done, take 
th^ out, reduce tlie sirup to a caramel^ and 
pot is the aisles, rubbing them all over with 
It; or you may wrap them in a paste, raum 
BDgar over, bake a short time, and glaxe with 
a white glaze. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (1) BoU 

nme pippins tiU they begin to get tender, then 
pot than into cold water; pare and core 
tbem; squeeze the pulp dmnigh a sieve and 
put it over the fire, letting it remain till it be- 
OHDes very thick ; then weigh an equal quan- 
tity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises in 
^niUes which cluster together; putthemar- 
iBahde to it, and stir them weO witli a wood- 
en spoon till the apple begins to boil ; then 
take it off and when a littte cool, put it into 
pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (2) Pare, 
C(Mre, and cut your apples into small pieces, 
put them into water with a little lonon-juice 
to keep them ii^ite. Take them out after a 
ihort time and drain them. Weigh, and put 
them into a stew-pan ; if for present use, lutlf 
• pound of sugar will be sufficient for each 
pwnd of appfes, but if for keeping, double 
ikat quantity witt be nMessary. Add to it a 
Kick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon. 
!♦ 



AFP 

Put the stew-pan over a brisk 6re and 
it; when the apples are pulped stir the 
tui^ till of the proper oo ' 
the marmfidade mto pots. 



APPLES IN PANCAKES. Oit 9aam 
apples very small, slew them with a little 
while wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown sugar; mash 
spread it over pancakes; roll th 
serve with sifted loaf sugar over \ 

APPLE POUPETON. 
good baking apples, take out the cons, and 
put them into a skillet; to a pomd Siid a 
half of apples, put a quarter of a pound of su- 
gar, and a wine glaas of water. Do then 
over a skiw fire, add a little cinnamon, and 
keep them stirring. When of the consist 
enoe of a marmalade, let it stand tiD oool; 
beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir in four 
table spoonfob of grated bread, and a quarter 
of a pound offreab butter; then fonn it into 
shape, bake it in a sk>w oven, turn it upside 
down on a plate, and i 



APPLE PRESERVE. (Sm iVe- 



APPLES AND RAISINS. Ptuvandctit 
twelve apples into quarterv, and each quarter 
into four pieces, put them mto a pan witli four 
ounces of good ft>esh butter, two of sugar, over 
which the xetie of an orange has been grated, 
and a quarter of a pound of currants well 
waslied; toes up these ingredients over a mod- 
eiate fii« for a few minutes and then kit them 
cool. Make a round under-crust seven inch- 
es in diameter, moisten the edge and put on 
it a band of puff paste three-quarters of an 
inch high and half an inch thick; pot your 
apples, &c. in this so as to form a sort of 
doriie, cover them with the puff paste, taking 
care that it does not extend bt^ond the band, 
ufMNi which it must be pressed down ; wash 
it over with white ot egg, and hake it 
in a gentle oven for about an hour. When 
a littks cooled, take tlie whites of two eg^, 
whipped to a strong froth and mixed with 
two ounces of powder sugar, and mask with 
it your cake, sprinkling it with sifted siv 
gar; then, having drained and diied some 
currants, mix them with sugar, and strew 
them over the dome; form a crown of small 
mermgvie* with the remainder of the white 
of e^, and plao6 it on the band ; cover them 
with sifted sugar, and color the whole of a 
clear yelfow in the oven, and then serve im- 
mediately. 

APPLES IN RICE. (1) Scoop ooi 
the cores, and pare, very nratly, half a do» 
en good-sized apples; bod them m thin, clari- 
fied Bi^jar; let tbem imbibe the sugar, aei 



APR 



APR 



be car^l to preserve tlieir form. Make a 
marmalade with some other apples, adding 
to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of 
rice previouslv boiled in milk, with sugar and 
butter, and the yoUcs of two or three eggs ; 
put them into a dish for table, surround it 
with a border of rice, and place die whole ap- 
ples in the rice, and marmalade and bake it. 
When done, put into each of the £4)ple8 a tea 
njoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may 
think proper. 

APPLES IN RICE. (2) Pare, core, 
and cut four <»* five good apples in quarters ; 
boil some rice in a cloth, and when soft put 
io the apples, tie it up very loose, and boil 
gently till sufficiently done. 

APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
kich and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff fioth the 
whites of two or three eggs, widi a little sift- 
ed loaf sugar, lay it upon tiie rice, and bake 
it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instant- 
ly ^dien done. 

APPLEALATURaUE. Neatly pare 
and pierce out the cores of eight or ten ap- 
ples, put them on tlie fire with a thin sirup 
of clarified sugar, cover them close and let 
them simmer gently ; turn tliem, that both 
aides may be done. When thorougtily done 
lay them on a dish, with a wet paper over 
them. Pat a paste round die dish you sei-ve 
than in, and bake in a gentle oven to harden 
it, then put in a layer of apple sauce, over 
which put the apples, and fill die holes where 
the cores were with dried cherries or ap- 
ricot jam, tlien cover it with the apple sauce ; 
beat up tlie whites of six eggs to a fix)th, 
and add powder sugar till they appear quite 
■mooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the 
white of egg over them, smooUi it neatly over, 
and sift some powder sugar ov&c it; color it 
in a gentle oven. 

APPLE WATER. Cut three or four 
hrfte apples into slices, put them into a jug, 
and pour a quart of boiling water over them ; 
cover the jug. When quite cold, strain and 
■weeten it, and add a little lemon-juice. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh 
equal quantities of loaf sugar and of apricots ; 
a^dd uiem, and take off die skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, put the fituit into it, and 
let it remain for two or three days; ]nit die 
apricots into glasses. Mix with the sirup 
the best pale wandy, half and lurlf, aad pom- 
it over the apricots and keep them closely 
covered. P^uJies and nectarioes may bie 
tee in the same way. 



APRICOTS, CHARLOTTE OF. 

Choose twenty-four fine, plump, but not too 
ripe, apricots, pare and divide tliem into 
eight parts, toes them up in a quarter of a 
pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of warm 
butter ; in the meantime line a mould as di^ 
rected (see Charlotte); pour in the apri- 
cots, and finish as usi^l. When tamed oo 
your dish, cover it lightly with apricot mar- 
malade, and serve it immediately. 

APRICOTS TO DRY. Pare the apri- 
cots, and carefully take out the stones ; blsuich 
die kernels, and put them into the ^iri^ts ; 
strew over a pound of firuit the same quantity 
oi finely-pounded loaf sugar, and let them 
stand till the sugar has extracted the juioe^ 
then boil all together gendy ; when the fi-uit 
is tender, take it out with care, and boil the 
sinip till very ricli ; pour it over the firuit, 
and in three days put it upon dishes, and dry 
them in the sun under garden glasses, turning 
diem once or twice a-day, to Keep the shape 
as round as possible. Any inferior apricota 
may be cut down and. boiled in the sirup, £6r 
tarts. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Take 

some fine apricots, and choose firom amongst 
them those which are of the deepest ^'eUow 
and die ripest, (they must not be too ripe.) 
Peel them, take out the stones, and chop them 
up; weigh twelve pounds of them and put 
diem into a preserving-pan, with nine pounds 
of powder sugar ; place your pan over a quick 
fire, and keep yom* preparation constantly 
stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find 
out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, 
let a few drops fiiU into a glass of cold watar, 
and if they do not spread in the water your 
mamialacfe is ready to put into pots. An- 
other method of ascertaining when your mar- 
malade is done is by taking some on die end of 
your finger and thumb, and just rub them to- 
gether, and if on separating them you find the 
marmalade ibrms a thread, it is sufficiently 
done. 

APRICOTS A LA PORTUGAISE. 

Take a dozen of ri|)e apricots, cut them in 
half, and take out the stones ; place them on 
a silver plate, and pour over some clarified 
sugai', with a little water; put them on a 
stove without covering diem; when sufii- 
ciendy done, take the»i fi-om the fire, and 
strew sugar over; dien put on the lid of the 
baidng-pan under the fire, to make them of a 
good color. 

APRICOTS, WHOLE. Choose the fin- 
est yellow, but not too ripe, apricofs; take 
off die stalks, prick them on each side with 
a pin, make an incision with the point of 
a knife, through which extract the stone. 



ART 

AeB pot ibein OB the lire widi mukigIi war 
tor as win cover .them, ootil oear boiling, 
wfaen, if 8qA» the apricota should be thrown 
into cold water ; take care thOT are all equal- 
hf tender. Drain them on a hurdle, and in 
the meantime clarify and boil some sugar 
to the degree you require; put in a little 
water, and wh«a it bojjs remore it from the 
fire, aiid add to it the fruit, and having given 
Ifaem a few boilings together^ let them cool, 
then drain and pboe thrai in your eo«^poti«r«. 

ARTICHOKES AND ALMONDS. 

Take half a pound of sweet alnMmds blancb> 
ed and beat fine, with two tea spooofiUs 
of orange-Aower or rose water; then take 
a qaaat of cream, and boil it with a small 
quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it 
with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds; 
stir them together, and strain it through a 
Let the cream cool, and thicken it 



with the yolks of six eggs; then garnish a 
deepdiah, and lay paste at the bottom; then 
pot in slired artichoke botUwos, being first 
b^led; and upon these a little melted butter, 
rfned citron, and candied orange; repeating 
the same until the dish is nrarly fiill, then 
poor in the cream, and bake it without a lid. 
When it is baked, grate sugar over it, and 
•erve it liot. Half an hour will serve to 
bake it. 

ARTICHOKES BOILED. Soak them 
in cold water, wash them well, then put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a handftil 
of sate, and let them boil gently till they are 
tender, which will take an hour and a half, 
or two hours: the surest wav to know when 
they are done enough, is to draw out a leaf; 
trim them and drain them on a sieve; and 
•end up melted butler with them, which some 
put into small cups, so that each guest may 



ARTICHOKES TO BOO.. Cut off the 
stalks cloee to the bottom, wash them well, 
and let them lie fi>r some hours in cold wa^ 
ter; put them on in boiling water with a 
little salt in it, cover the pan closely, and 
boil them an hour and a bklf. If tbe^ are 
old, and have not been fiiesb gathered, they 
will take a lon^ time to boil. Melted but- 
ler is served with them in a sauce-tureen. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, to Dry 
4VD P1CKI.E. Half boil the artichokes, 
strip off the leaves, and pull out the choke ; 
put the bottcMUs into small jam, and covor 
thian with a coM boiled brme of salt and 
water; put melted mutton suet on ttie t<^ to 
exclude the air, and tie Uadder over them. 
To dry them, th^ are boiled as for eating, 
the leaves and chdke puUsdout, and the bot- 
.tom dried upon dishes ia an oveut aod then 



r Asr 

kept m paper bi^ When to be drwti, 
they must be laid into warm water, and soak* 
ed fi)r two or three houn; they mav then faa 
plain boiled* and eaten with melted butters 
<Nr stewed in gravv with a little mushixiofls 
catsup, pepper, ana sate, and thickened with 
a bit of butter rolled in flour. They are a 
dishes and 



great 



to all 



ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, PICKLED. 

Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pull- 
ed off vrithout breaking the bottoms; leave 
on the part called the choke, set them asids 
till cold, then put them into wide-mouthad 
bottles. Boil, in vinegar, some salt, pepper* 
mace, and sliced nutmeg, and, whim cold, 
pour it over the artichokes; tie bladder over 
the bottles. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (1) 

Are boiled and dressed in the various ways di- 
rected for potatoes. N. B— They should be 
covered with thick melted butter, or a nice 
white or brown sauce. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (2) 

Thev must be neatly peeled, and boiled very 
gently by the side of the stove, with a littfe 
sate m die water; when done (but not too 
much, or they will not look well) place them 
on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or 
any other sauce you please. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM, to 
Fkicasses. Wash and scrape or pare 
them; boil them in milk and wator till thev • 
are soft, which will be from a quarter to hafif 
an hour. Take them out and stew them a 
few minutes in the following sauce: — ^RoU a 
bit of butter, the size of a walnut, in flour, 
mix it with half a pint of cream or milk; 
season it with pepper, sate, and grated nut- 
meg. They may be served plmn boiled, 
wim a little meteed butter poured over 
them. Scommera is fricasseed in the same 



ARROW-ROOT. Mix with two or 
three table-spoonfiils of arrow-root half a 
pint of cold water; let it stand tar nearly a 
quarter of an hour, pour off the water, and 
stir in some poundeid sugar; boil a pint of 
milk, and pour it gtadually upon the arrow- 
root, stirring it one way all the time. Or 
it may be nuide with water in which lemon- 
peel has been boiled, and then a glass of Port 
or white wine and a little nutmeg stirred 
into it. 

ASPARAGUS. Set a stew-pan with 
plenty of water in it on the fire; sprinkle a 
handfiilofsateinit; let te boil, and skim it; 
then put in your asparagus, ptepared thus* 



ASP 



8 



BAC 



msflSpe aU the stallu UD tbey are perfectly 
dean ; throw them into a pan of cold water as 
you scrape them ; when they are all done, tie 
them up in little bundles, n about a quarter 
of a hundred each, with bass, if you can get * 
it, or tape (string cuts than to pieces ; ) cut 
off the stalks at uie bottom that they may be 
all <^ a length, leaving only just enough to 
serve as a handle for the green part; when 
they are tender at the stalk, which will be 
in from twenty to thirty minutes, tliey are 
done enough. Great cai^e must be taken to 
watdi the exact time of their becoming ten- 
der; take them up just at that instant, and 
they will have their true flavor and color: 
a minute or two more boiling destroys both. 
While the asparagus is boiling, toast a round 
of a quaileni loat, about half an inch thick ; 
brown it delicately on both sides; dip it 
lightly in the liquor the asparagus was boiled 
in, and. lay it in die middle of a dish: melt 
flome butter, then lay in the asparagus upon 
the toast, which must project beyond tlie as- 
paragus, that the company may see there is 
a toast. 

ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape and 
tie them in small bundles; cut them even, 
boE. them quick in salt and water; lay diem 
on a toast dipped in the wafer the asparagus 
was boiled in ; pour over them melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Toast a 
slice of bread, butter it, and lav it on a dish ; 
batter some eggs thus: take iour eggs, beat 
them well, put them into a sauce pan with 
two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until 
of a sufficient consistence, and lay tliem on 
the toast; meanwhile boil some asparagus 
tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on 
the eggs. 

ASPARAGUS, FRENCH. Boil it, and 
chop small the lieads and tender part of the 
stalks, togetlier with a boiled oniou ; add a 
little salt and pepper, and the Ijeaten yolk of 
an e^; beat it up. Serve it on sippets of 
toasted bread, and pour over it a little melt- 
ed butter. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. (See Soups,} 

ASPICK. Take a knuckle of veal, a 
knuckle of ham, a thick slice <^ beef, and if 
th^ will not make your jelly stiff enough, 
add two calTs feet, or some swards of baa>n 
rasped ; put them into a sauce-pan with a pint 
of rich stock, and dweat it over a stove till 
reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, 
boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, 
two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four cloves, 
two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick ; let 
the whole stew for seven hours, ihesa strain off 
the liquor or comonuM* Break four eggs 



into a stewpan, and put to them the eotu&nHM 
when cold, tlie juice of two lemons, and two 
sp<>onfuls of tarragon, and beat it with a 
whisk over the fire till near boiling, and when 
it does so, remove your stew^Mui to a smaller 
fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour ; 
then paaa it through a wet napkin doubled. 
If the jelly is not sufficiently clear, clarify it 
a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, about 
half an inch thick, at the bottom of an a^ick 
mould, garnish it with ti-uffles, whites of egg»» 
sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, 
pour in another half inch of rae jelly, while 
liquid, with great (^u^e, so as not to discom- 
pose your gamifiii, then put either calf's 
brains, breasts of fowl, veal sweetbreads, 
cocks' combs, kidnej^, fat livers, or game. 
Be sure to lay whatever you may use, as equal 
and smooth as possible, then fill up your mould 
with jelly, and let it stand till set. Whoi 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water an in- 
stant, place your dish on the top and turn it 



ATTELETS, OYSTER. (See Oy»- 
ter$,) 

ATTELETS are silver skewers. 

AUNT MARY'S PUDDING. (Se€ 
Pudding^,) 



B. 

BACCHIC CREAM. {See Cream,) 

BACCHIC SAUCE. {See Sauce,) 

BACON. Cover a pound of nice streaked 
bacon or salt pork with cold watery let it boil 
gently for three-quarters of an hoiu* ; teike it 
up, scrape the under side well, and cut off 
the rind: grate a crust of bread not only on 
the top, but all over it, and put it before the 
fire for a few minutes: it must not be there 
too longnor it will dry it and spoil it. Two 
pounds will require about an hour and a half, 
according to its thickness ; the liock or gam- 
mon being very thick, wiU take more. The 
boiling of bacon is a very simple subject to 
comment upon; but our main object is to 
teach common cooks the art of dressing con»- 
mon food in the best manner. Bacon ia 
sometimes as salt as salt can make it, there- 
fore before it is boiled it must be soaked in 
warm water for' an hour or two, changiiw 
the ^ter once ; th«i pare off die rusty and 
smoked part, trim it nicely on the under side, 
and scrape the rind as clean as pcnsibK 
Mem. — ^Bacon is an extravagant article in 
housekeeping; diere is often twice as much 
dressed as need be: when it is sent to ta- 
ble as an aoconyftnimeiit to boiled poukiy 



BAC 



BAA 



anpeal, a pound and a half ifl plenty fcr ft doa- 
CO pe(^)Je. A good German aaunge k a 
V eooDomiGal sufattitate fiur bacun ; or fried 



^ 



NoU. — Baeon m Engkmd omd tmU 
f9rk tn Jimertea are the earn* tkmg» 
Wktt we name haeim, the EngUeh call 



R400N TO BROIL. MakeapariieeC 
of paper into the form erf* a dripping-pan ; cut 
war biioon into thin bUocb, cut off the rind, 
mj the bacon on die paper, pot it upon the 
gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will 
noil cleanly. 

BAOON AND tX3GS. Cbta quarter oT 
a poond of streaked baoon into thin sliees, 
and pot tfaem into a stewpan orer a slow fire, 
takii^ care to torn diem fiequenthr; when 
aufiiciently done, pour the melted bit of the 
fasoon into a dish, break over it seven or eight 
eggs, add two spoonfiils of gra^^, a little 
sak and pepper, and stew the whole over a 
dow fire: pass a sahmandfr over it, and 



BACON, GAMMON, TO BAKE. Uy 

it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, 
and stuff it with all manner of sweet herbs, 
as thyme, sage, savoiy, sweet marjoram, pen- 
ny-mval, strawberry feaves, violet leaves, and 
fennel; chop these small, and mix them with 
the yolks of hard eggs, pepper and nutmeg 
beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is 
cold pare off tl)9 under aide, pull off the skin, 
season it with pepper and nutmeg, and pvkt it 
in a pie or past^, with whole doves and slices 
ofraw baoon laid over it, and butter ; ckise it, 
and bake it. 

BAOON OR HAM SLICES. Ham, or 
bacon, may be fried, or broiled on a gridiron 
over a clear fihe, or toasted with a fork : take 
care to slice it of the same thickness in every 
part. If you wish it curled, cut it in slices 
about two inches long (if bnger,the outside 
will be done too mudi before the inside is 
done enough); roll it up, and put a little 
wooden skewer through it: put it in a clieeee- 
toastor or Dutch oven , for eidit or ten minutes, 
turning it as it gets crisp. This is considered 
die handscMnest way of dressing baoon ; but 
we like it best uncurled, because it is crisper, 
and mcMre equally done. Slices of ham or 
baoon dioold not be more than half a qoartor 
ef an inch thick, and will eat much more 
mdlow if soaked in hot water for a quarter 
of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before 
they are broiled, &c. 

BACON REUSHING RASHERS. 
If yoa have any cold bacon, you may make 



a v«ry nioa dali of H by c 



ritialoa 



lofitbycuttiiwit 

a quarter of an inch thick ; 1^ 
crust of bread, as directed for ham and pofw> 
der them well with it on both sides; ky tfaa 
rashera in a cheese-toasiBr, they wiU be 



turn them and do the other. TheK are a 
delicious accompaniment to poached or friad 
eggs: die baton having been boiled fint, is 
tender and meDow. They are aa aiieeOenC 
garnish round veal cutlets, or sweetfaraa^ 
or calTs head hash, or green peas or baas. 

BAIN MARIE. Aflat^eMsl, amlai». 

ing boilmg water, meant to hold other mae^ 
pans, either fi>r purposes of cookery or to kMp 
dishes hot. The advantages of preeerrMV 
die heat of dishes by the bairn wtarie k this, 
that no change is effeolad in the fiavor af 
the ingredients 

BALM BEER. {See Beer.) 

BANBURY CAKES. {See Cakn.) 

BARLEY CREAM. (See Crmm.) 

BARLEY WATER. lUw a coqile oT 
ounces of pearl barley, wash it clean with 
cold water, put it mto half a pint of boilhig 
water, and let it boil for five minutes; pour 
off this water, and add to it two quarts of 
boiling water: boil it to two pints, and strain 
it. The above is simple barley water. To 
a quart of thisis fiequendy adcled two ounces 
of figs, sliced; the same of raisins, stoned; 
half an ounce of liquorice, sliced and bruised ; 
and a pint of water. Boil it till it is re- 
duced to a quart, and strain. Obt, — ^Theae 
drinks are intended toaaauage thirst in ardent 
fevers and inflammatory diaorden, for which 
ftlenty of mild diluting liquor is one of the 
principal remedies: uid u not suggeated by 
the medical attendant, is fipequently cfemanded 
by honest instinct, in tenns too plain to be 
misunderstood : the stomach sympathizes with 
ever}' fibre uf the human fiiune,andnopartof 
it can be distreBsed without in some degree 
oflending the stonuich: therefore it is of the 
utmost importance to sooth this grand organ, 
bv rendering everything we oftr to it as 
ektgant and agreeable as tbtu nature of the 
case will admit of; the barley drink prepared 
according to the second receipt, will be re- 
ceived with pleasure by the most ^«**»ffata 
palate. 

BARLEY BROTH. (See Broa,) 

BARLEY GRUEL. Take dirae ounces 
of pearl barley, of which make a quart of 
barley water ; if it be not white, shift it onoa 
or twice; put in two ouncne of currants ckaa 



BEA 



10 



BES 



picked and washed, and whea they are plump- 
ed, pour oat the gruel and let it cool a little; 
then put in the yolks of three eggs well beat- 
en, half a pint of white wine, and of new 
Ihick cream half a pint, and lemon^)eel; 
then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; 
sthr it gently over the fire, until it is thick as 



BARLEY PUDDING. {See Pud- 

BARBERRY JELLY. (See JeUy.) 

BARBERRY GONSERVE. Put a pound 
of ripe barberries and half an ounce of pow- 
dered fiamel seed into a silver vessel, with a 
glass of water; boil them three or four times, 
and press the juice through a sieve. Replace 
the vessel on the fire witii the juice, ami add 
to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au 
C€uae, Boil tc^ther a few times, and then 
pour the conserve into cases. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sirup,) 

BARBERRIES TO PICKLE. Boil the 
bruised berries of a few bunches in sak- 
and-water; strain, and put a nil of the 
liquor to a quart of vinegar, wim an ounce 
of salt, a quarter c^ a pound of loaf sugar, 
a C|uarter of an ounce ot pounded gineer, and 
a little sliced horse-radish; boil and strain 
it, then pour it hot over the barberri^, the 
finest bunches having been previously select- 
ed and placed in jars ; when cold, cover tliem 
closely with bladder. They may also be 
kept m a jar, with a strong brine of salt-and- 
water poin^ over them. When any scum 
is observed upon the sur&oe, the brine must 
be poured off, and some finesh added. Th^ 
are kept closely covered. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sirt^,) 

BASIL VINEGAR. (See Vinegar.) 

BATH BUNS. (See Bune,) 

BATTER FOR FISH, MEAT, FRIT- 
TERS, &c. Prepare it with fine flour, salt, 
a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine and 
the whites <^^|B beat up; when of a proper 
tliickness it will drop out of the spoon about 
tlie size of a nutrn^ at once. Fry in oil or 
hog's lard. 

BATTER PUDDING. (See Pud- 

BEANS. Out, wash, and boil the beans, 
and then throw them into a cullender. Put a 
piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the 
Deans on it, and garaish them with chopped 



parsley kiid round Uke a oord; heattfae&h 
and serve. 



BECHAMELLE. Reduce 
toumee over a good fire, moisten with chick* 
en broth or eoneomme, constantly stirring to 
prevent its catching; when of jthe proper con- 
sistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, 
continue stirring; pass it through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. 
Cut in square pieces, half an inch thick, two 
pounds of lean veal, ha]f a pound of lean bam ; 
mek in a stewpan two ounces of butter;^ 
when melted, let the whole simmer until it 
is ready to catch at tlie bottom (it requires 
great attention, as, if it happen to catch at 
the bottom of the stewpan, it will qx)il the 
look of your sauce) ; then add to it three 
table-spponfiils of flour; when well mixed, 
add tp it tliree pints of lnv>th or water (pour 
a little at a time, thai the thick^ng be 
smooth); stir it until it boil; put the stew- 
pan on the comer of the stove to boil gently 
lor two hours; season it with four cloveBy 
one onion, twelve pepper-corns, a blade <Mf 
mace, a few mushrooms-and a fiigot made 
of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. 
Let die sauce reduce to a quart, skim the fitf 
off, and strain it through a tamis doth. To 
make a bechamel sauce, add to a quart of 
the above a pint of good cream; stir it until 
it is reduced to a good thickness; a few 
muslirooms give a good flavor. to that sauce; 
strain it through a tamis cloth. 

BEEF. The names of the various pieces, 
according to the method of dividing the car- 
cass, are as foHows: — The hind quarter con- 
tains the Sirloin ; Rump; Edge-bone; But- 
tock, or Round; Mouse Buttock; Veiny 
Piece; Thick Flank; Thin Flank; L^ 
Bon; Legs; Fore Rib; Five Rifae.—The 
fore quarter contains the Middle Rib of four 
ribs; Chuck of three ribs ; Shoulder, or Leg- 
of-Mutton Piece, containing a part of the 
Blade-bone; Brisket; Clod; Neck End, or 
Sticking Piece; Shin; Cheek. Besiffea 
these are the Tongue and Palate. The Eln- 
trails consist of the Heart; Sweetbreads; 
Kidneys ; Skirts ; and three kinds of Tripe, 
the Double, die Roll, and the Red Tripe. 

Ox beef is considered the best. The flesh 
should feel tender, be fine in the grain, and 
of a bright red color, nicely marbled or mix- 
ed with fet. The fet should be white, rather 
than of a yellow color. 

Heifer beef is excellent when finely fed, 
and is most suitable for small fiunilies. The 
bone should be taken out of a round of beef 
before it is salted, and it must be washed, 
skewered, and bound -round firmly before be- 
ing boiled. Salt beef should be put OD wkb 






B£fi 



11 



BEE 



ifaity of cold water, and wiien it tioilB the 
•cam removed. It ia then kept simmerii^ 
for floms hours. A piece weighing fifteen 
poaDds will reqoiie three hourB and a half to 
Doil. GarrotB and turnips for garnishing 
ahould be pot on to boil with the beef. If 
b the least tainted, a pieoe of charooal may 
be boiled with it. 

When beef k to be kept any length (^ time, 
it should be carefully wiped every day. In 
warar. weather, wood vinegar is an excellent 
preaervative: it is put all over the meat with 
a Ixu^. To protect the meat fitwa flies, it 
nay be sprinkled over with peppor. Tainted 
meat mar be restored by nvashing in cold 
r, aAerwj 



wards in strong chamomile tea, 
■fier which it may be sprinkled with salt and 
ised the following dby, 0cst washing it 
in cold water. Roughly pounded chareoal 
nibbed all over the meat also restores it when 
tainted. In Scotland meat is frequently kept 
a fortnight smothered in oatmeal, and care- 
fidh* wiped every day; and if it should be a 
htde tainted, it is soaked some hours before 
k is used, in oatmeal and water. 

These directions equally apply to aH sorts 
«f meat. The sirbin is the prime joint for 

3r. When, to be used, it should be 
, then dried with a clean cloth, and 
die fot covered over with a piece of white pa- 
per tied on with thread. The spit should be 
kept at all times exceedingly clean: it must 
be wiped dry immediately after it is drawn 
fpom the meat, and washed and scoured 



time it is used. Gare should be taken to baJ 
anoe the roast properly upon the spit, but, if 
not exactly right, it is better to make it equal 
fay fostening on a leaden-headed skewer than 
to pierce it again. The fire should be pre> 
pared W putting on plenty of coals at the 
back. When put down, it should be about 
ten indies finom die fire, and |;iaduallv drawn 
nearer. It is first basted with a litUe butter 
or finesh dripping, and then well basted with 
its own fat all the time it i. roasting. Ten 
minutes before sei-ving, it should be s|[»inkled 
with a little salt, then di^edeed with flour, and 
basted till it is fi*othed. When it is drawn 
fitnn the spit some gravy will ran out, to 
which may be added a little boiling salt-sund- 
water poured along the bone: the mef is then 
garnished with plenty of finely scraped horse- 
radish. A sirloin, weighing about fifteen 
poundtf, should be roasted for three hours and 
a half. A thinner piece of the same weight 
lequires onty three horn's. In cold weather 
meat requires longer masting than in warm, 
and if newly kill^ than if it has been kept. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (1) Take about 
deven pounds of the mouse buttock, or dod 
of beef, <Nr a blade-bone, or the sticking-piece, 
or the like weight of the breast of veal ; cut 
it into pieces of three or four ounces each; put 



three or four oooeea of beef dripphifiy mA 
minoe a couple of huge onions, and put th«i 
into a large deep stewpan ; as aooa as it if 
quite hot, flour the meat, put it into the stew- 
with a ^ 



pan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; 
when it lus been on about ten minutes, di«%B 
it with floor, and keep doing so till yoo have 
* ' * " * ill thic 



etirred in as much as you think will 
it; then ooTer it with boiling water (it will 
take about a gallon), adding it by dwreea, 
and stirring it together ; skim it when icboils, 
and then put in one dradidi of ground bhwk 
pepper, two (^allspice, and tw^ bay leaves; 
set the pan by the side of the fire, or at a dia- 
tanoe over it and let it stew very slowly for 
about three hooni; when you find the meat 
sufficiently tender, put it Into a tnreea, and 
it is ready for table. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (2) Take tha 
bone out of a small round of fine ox beef, cot 
some fiit bacon in lon^ Bfips, dip them into 
common and shallot vinegar misrad, and roll 
theminthefoUowingseosotting: Chated nut- 
meg, black and Jamaica pepper, one or two 
cloves, and some aak, parsley, chives, lemoo- 
thyme, netted marionun, and savoury, shred 
quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind 
it firmly with tape, and rub the outsioB with 
the seasoning. Put it into a sauoepan, with 
the rind of a lemon, four large cmions, the red 
part of three or four carrots, and two tumipa 
cut into dice; add a tea*cupiiil of strcmg ale 
andoneofvinegpar; letitstewforsixoreisfat 
hours, turning it two (>r tiiree times. J&IS 
an hoitf before serving, take out the berf and 
vegetables, skim off the fat, strain the sauce, 
and thicken it with a little flour-and-water 
mixed smooth, add a tea-cupfol of Port wine, 
return it all into the pot, and let it boil. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (8) Take a ramp 
or piece of beef, bone it,,beat it well and bud 
it with fot bacon, then put it into a stewpan 
with some rind of bacon, a calf's foot, an 
onion, carrot, a buich of sweet horbs, a bay 
leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, 
salt, and pqpper, pour over the whole a glass 
of water, let it stew over a slow fire for six 
hours at least. A clean cloth should be 
placed over the stew pan before the lid is 
put on, which must be carefolly doeed. 
When it is done, strain the gravy through a 
sieve, dear off the fot, and serve. 

BEEF ALADAUBE.^ Take a round, 
a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with 
bacon, lialf roast it, or fry it brown; put it 
into a stewpan or a pot that will just hold 
it; add some ^vy, an onion stuck with 
cloves, half a pint of white wine, a gill of 
vinegar, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper . 
doves, mace, and salt; cover it down very 
close, let it but just simmer till it is tender'; 



BfiS 



12 



B£B 



Hike two OK palatM, two sweetbreads, truf- 
fles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all 
together in some grev^, and pour over the 
bwf ; have ready some forced meat balls fried, 
nukke some bog, others rouud, dip some sip- 
pets into batter, pry and cut them three cor- 
ner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay 
the balls round the dish. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (1) Bone a 
rump of beef; lard it very thickly with sak 
pork seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, maoe, 
and aUspioe, and season the beef with pepper 
and sak; put some slices of bacon into the 
bottom of the pan, with some whole black pep- 
per, a little alkpice, one or two bay leaves, two 
onions, a clove (^ garlic, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it 
some slices of bacon, two quarts of weak 
stock, and half a pint of white wine. Cover 
it closely, and let it stew between six and 
seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of 
part of the liquor it has been stewed in, 
strained, and thickened with a little flour and 
butter, adding some green onions cut small, 
and pickled mushrooms. It is poured hot 
over the beef. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (2) After a 
romp of beef has htmg for five or six days, 
bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to ap- 
pear upon the surface, with bits oi salt pork 
or ham cut about half an inch square, and 
rolled in the following seasoning well mixed: 
— ^Finely minced onion, pirBlev> thyme, a lit- 
tle garlic, pepper, and salt. What IS left over 
of the seasoning add to a pint of v inepr, one 
of Port wine, tmd a tea-cupfiil of salad oil; 
steep the beef in this for one night; the fol- 
fewing day paper it, and roast it in a cradle 
spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick 
brown gravy. A little lemon-juice and sliced 
pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish 
with slices of boiled carrot and scraped horse- 
radish. 

BEEF ALAN6LAISE. Take a rump 
cfheef, or any piece you like better <jf the 
same size; tie it up neatly with packthread, 
and pot it into a stewpan with two or three 
carrots, a parsnip, three or four onions, a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of 
gariK, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; moisten 
witli some slock or water, season, and let 
the beef stew gently till half done, then put in 
a few small cal)bages, prepared in the folk>w- 
ing manner ; boil a laige cabbage, and hav- 
ing squeezed it pei'foctly dry, take off the 
leaves one by one, and put within each leaf 
a littJe veal or other forcemeat, surrounding 
it with three or four more of the leaves, in 
such a manner as to dyna little cabbages, 
something larger than an egg; tie tliese with 
packthread, and let them be stewed with the 



beef. When the wliok is done, dean 9maj 
the outside loose fot, and put your beef in a 
dish, cut the little cabba^ inlialf, and plaoa 
them rouud the dish, with the cut side out- 
. ward. Take a little of the stew, strain it 
throuffh a sieve, and having skimmed off tha 
&t, add a little cullis to thicken it. Reduce 
this over the fire to the consistence of a same* 
serving it over the meat and cabbages. 

BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a 
piece of tender beef, fiit and lean; minoe aa 
onion, with some boiled parsley ; add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, sak, 
grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel ; mix aU to- 
gether, and moisten it with an e^ beaten; 
roll it into balls; flour and fry than in boil- 
ing firesh dripping. Serve them with fiied 
bread crumbs, or with a thicfcoied hrovm 
gntt^- 

BEEF BOUIIXI. (1) In pl^ Eng. 
lisb, is understood to mean boiled l«ef; but 
its culinary acceptati<Mi, in the French kitch- 
en, is fresh berf dressed without boiling, and 
only v«ry gently simmered by a slow fire. 
Cooks have seldom any notion, that good soap 
can be made without destroying a great dcu 
of meat ; however, by a judicious r^;ulation 
of the fire, and a vigilant attendance on the 
soup-kettle, this may be accomplished. You 
shall have a tureen c^such soup as will satisfy 
the most fastidious palate, and the meat make 
its appearance at table, at the same time, in 
possession of a full pntion of nutritious sooco- 
ksnce. This requires nothing nK>re than to 
stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping 
the pot boiling a gallop, as common cooks 
too commonly do), and to take it up as aoon 
as it is done enough. See ** Soup and 
booilU," " Beef Shin stewed," » Scotch 
barley broth." Meat cooked in this manner 
affi>rds much nKNre nourishment than it does 
dressed in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion in prop<xtion as it is tender, and an in- 
vigorating, substantial diet, especially vahu- 
ble to the poor, whose laborious empbymenta 
require support. 

BEEF BOUILLI. (2) Take a ramp 
of beef, or part of one ; bone and tie it togeth- 
er in a neat form, and put it into a pot, vtidi 
any odd bits of butcher's meat you may hap- 
pea to have in the house, either beef, veal, or 
mutton ; you may add, also, the bones, feet, 
and necks of poultiy or game, the meat of 
which has been taken for other dishes; place 
your pot on a moderate fire, not quite full of 
water, and skim gently. When it has boiled 
a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six 
carrots, and six onions, into one of which you 
shoukl stick three cloves; add a bmich of 
leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef 
is perfectly done; then take it out, and serfa 



[ 



BSS 



JS 



BRC 



it 19 either 
«rwich 



with tntb pankj, with awooe, 
or other vegelsibles. 



BEEF BROSE. After any ho^ piece 
of beef has beoi taken out of die pot it wsh 
boiled in, skim off the &t witli part of die 
fiquor, and boil it in a aauoepan. Have 
leady in a bowl oatmeal that has been toanted 
browTi before the fire, pour in the boiling 
liquor and stir it a little; if too ihkk, add 
toon i^uor, and send it to table quite hot. 

BEKF BAKED. Let a buttock of beef 
which has been in salt about a week, be well 
washed and put into an eardien pan, widi a 
pint of water ; cover the pan tight widi two 
or three sheets o£/ooUetqt paper — let it bake 
fcur or five houra in a moderately heated 



BEEF BAKED WITH POTATOES. 
Boil some potatoes, peel, and pound them in 
a mortar with one or two small onions; 
moisten them with milk and an egg beaten 
<d; add a little saU and pepper. Season 

I Mioes of beef, or mutton chops, with sak and 
pepper, and mme <mion, if the flavor it ap- 
proved; rub the bottom of a pudding dish 
with butler, and put a layer of the mashed 

I potuoes, which ihould be as thick as a bat- 
ter, and then a layer of meat, and so on al- 

I tera^ely till the dish is filled, ending with 
potatoes. Bake it in an oven for one hour. 

BEEF TO COLLAR. Cut off die end 
1 of a brisket of beef, and bone it; sprinkle it 
I with salt and saltpetre, and let it lie a week; 
mix together some grated nutmeg, Jamaica 
and bfauJL pepper, some chopped lemon thyme, 
sweet mariwaia, and panaiey ; strew it over 
die meat, roU it up hard, sew it in a cloth, 
pot it into a large jar of water, tie it closely, 
and bake it in an oven; take it out of the 
^ and press it with a heavy weight. When 
It is quite cold, take off the clom, and keep 
it dry. 

BEEF BROTH. (Sm Broth.) 

BEEF, COLD RUMP STEAKS TO 
WARM. Lay them in a stewpan, wifli 
one lai^ onion cut io qusurtens, six bories 
of ajbpioe, the same of black pepper, cover 
die steaks with boiling water, let them stew 
gently one hour, thicken the liquor with flour 
and batter rubbed togedier on a plale; if a 
pint of gravy, about one ounce of flour, and 
thelikewei^t of butter, will do; put it into 
the stewpan, shake it well over die fire for 
five minutes, and it is ready ; lay the steaks 
^ and onions on a dish and pour the gravy 



through a sieve over them. 



BEEF CULLIS. 



(See CW/u.) 
2 



BEEF. COLD TENDERLOIN. (1) 

Oit off oitire the inside of a large sirbin of 
beef, brown it all over in a stevvpan, thM 
add a quart of water, half a pint of Port wine, 
a tea-cupfiil of itrong lieer, two taUe-epoonfiils 
of vina|ar, some pepper, lak, and a largs 
onion finely minced; cover the pan clotely, 
and let it stew till die beef be very tender. 
Garnish with pickles. 

BEEF, COLD TENDERLOIN. (2) 

Cut off die meat, widi a little of die fiU, into 
strips three inches iong and half an inch 
diicJk ; leason with pepper and salt, dredge 
them with flour, and fry them brown in bitt- 
ter; then simmer them in a ridi bivwn gmvv ; 
add of mushroom catchup, onion, and sliafloC 
vinegar, a taljle-spoonnil each. Ganunh 
with firied panley. 

BEEF FILLET IN MADEIRA. LnM 
a good fillet of beef, the same as fiir roasting, 
join the ends logedier, and place it is this 
manner in a stewpan, with some onions, car- 
rots, and a bouqtut garni, some conaommt 
and Madeira, cover it with a buttered paper; 
let it boil for a moment, and aAerwaros kit 
it boil sbwlv. Put fire upon the toii of your 
stewpan. tVhen it is done strain tne broth 
through a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it 



BEEF FILLET ROASTED. This fil- 
let lies only in the inside of the sirloin next 
to the chine, and is the fcenderest part of the 
ox ; spit this on a smaD spit, but do not nn 
it through the best part of the meat: roast K 
pntly, and baste it with butter; catch ^vy 
m a dish while the beef is roasting; m the 
meantime make a sauce for it with sweet 
herbs and parsley shred fine, the yolks of four 
eggs, an onion, and some oranj^-peel chop- 
ped small; put these into sweet butter, gravy, 
a spoonfiil or two of strong broth axid vine- 
^, stew them all together. Put your beef 
into this sauce, and serve it hot. 

BEEF FRICANDEAU. Take a nice 
bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned 
with pqiper, aak, cloves, mace, and allspice. 
Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, 
a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all . 
sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlidt, a 
shallot or two, four cloves, pepper and salL 
When the meat is become tender, cover il 
close; skim the sauce weD, and strain it. 
Set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is re 
duced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with 
this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. 

BEEF GOBBETS. Take about six 
pounds of any piece of beef, except die leg or 
shin, cut it ^to pieces about the size of a htti's 
egg, put them mto a stewpan, and just oovei^ 



BEE 



14 



BEE 



tfiem with water, put them oyer tlie fire, and 
when tlie BOiim rises, skim it clear off', then 
put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole 
pepper, tied in a muslin, six heads of celery, 
cut an inch long and well washed, a carrot 
or two cut in slices, two turnips cut in dice, 
» bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper and 
salt, and a crust of bread ; stew it till the 
meat is tender, and then take out the spice, 
herbs, and bread ; have some crusts of French 
roll crisped before the fire, put tliem in a dish, 
and put the meat, &c. over them. You put 
in two ounces of Scotch bairley or rice when 
you put in tlie herbs. 

BEEF GRAVY. {See Gravy.) 

BEEF H-BONE. Is to be managed in 
exactly tlie 8:^ae manner as the round, but 
will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid. 
An H-bone of 201bs. will ije done enough in 
About four hours ; of lOlbe. in three hours, 
more or less, as the weather is hotter or 
colder. Be sure the boiler is big enough to 
allow it plenty of water^room: let it be well 
covered with water: set the pot on one side 
of the fire to boil gently: if it boils quick at 
first, no art can make it tender after. The 
dower it boils, the better it will look, aud 
the tenderer it will be. The same accom- 
panying vegetables as in "Beef Salt Round." 
Dress plenty <^ carrots, as cold carrots are a 
general favorite with cold beef. Mem, — 
Epicures say, that the 8oft, fat-like marrow, 
which lies on the back, is delicious when hot, 
and the hard fiit about the upper comer is 
best when cold. 

BEEF HASHED. (1) Take three or 
four onions, chop them very fine, and put diem 
into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and 
a little flour ; stir it over the fire till nearly 
done and well browned; then dooisten them 
with a little stock and half a glass of wine, 
adding some salt and coarse pepper; let them 
•tew till th^ are thoroughly done, and very 
little sauce remains; tl^ put in the cold 
beef, minced small, and let the whole sim- 
mer till it has taken the flavor of the onion. 
When you serve, add a spoonful of mustard 
and a little vinegar. 

BEEF HASHED. (2) Cut some of 
tfie underdone port of the beef, in slices, 
with some of ihe fat, put it into a mall 
atewpan, with some onion or sliallot, (a 
very little will do), a little water, pepper, 
and salt: boil it till the onion is quite sofl» 
Ifaen put some of tlie gravy of the meat to it, 
and the hash. Do not let it boil; have a 
amall hot dish with sippets of bread ready, 
and put the liasli into it, but first mix a lai^ 
•poonful of vine^r widi it ; if sliaUot vinegar 
is used there will be no need of the onion or 



raw shallot. Yon may add a spoonfiil of 
walnut liquor or catchup. ObseiTe, that it 
is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that 
they get hard. All »ortM of stews, or meat 
dressed a second time, should be only sini- 
mered ; and this last only hot through. 

BEEF HAM. Rub a little common salt 
over a piece of beef of about twenty pocmda 
weight ; take out the bon^y,jand in one or two 
days, rub well into the beef the following in- 
gi^ients, finely pounded and well mixed: 
— ^two ounces of sal-jminella, four ounces of 
brown sugar, six ounces of bay salt, one 
ounce of white pepper, and of cloves and nut- 
meg, a quarter of an ounce each ; then strew 
over it half a pound of common salt. Let it 
lie fifteen days, untiing it daiW. It is then 
hung up; or when taken outof'^the pickle, it 
may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold 
in the water in which it was boiled ; or it 
may be baked in a deep dish, covered widi 
a coarse paste. 

BEEF HEART, TO ROAST. Wasli 

it well, and clean all the blood carefiilly firom 
the pipes: parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in 
boiling water; drip the water firran it; put 
in a stuifinff which has been made of bread 
crumbs, minced suet or butter, sweet marjo- 
ram, lemon thyme, and pemsley, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put it 
down to roast while hot, baste* it well witb 
butter, froth it up, and serve it with melted 
butter and vinegar; or with gravy in the 
dish, and current jelly in a sauce-tureen. 
To hash it, foUow the dii^ections given for 
hare. 

BEEF HUNG, BURGESS'S METH- 
OD OF BOIUNG. Hun^ beef for grat- 
ing should be put on in boiling wrater, and, 
to preserve the color, kept boihng as fest as 
possible. AHow for six pounds of beef one 
hour and a half. It will keep good fin* a 
length of time. 

BEEF, HUNTING. Rub well into a 
round of beef weishing about forty pounds, 
three ounces of saltpetre ; let' it stand five or 
six hours; pound three ounces of aUspice, 
one of black pepper, and mix them witb two 
pounds of salt, and seven ounces of brown eu- 
gar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and 
spices, let it remain fourteen days, and every 
other day turn and rub it with the pickle; 
then wash off the spices, and put it into a 
deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of 
beef suet, put some into the bottom of the 
pan, but the greater part upon the top of the 
beef. Cover it with a coarse unste, and 
bake it eight hours. When cola, take pSt 
the crust, and pour off tlie gravy. It wiU 
keep good for tnree months. Preserve tho 



[ 



fi££ 



15 



BEE 



ES." 



iTj, as a little of it improves the flavor of 
socqps, or any maide diflhea. 

BEEF KIDNEY. Take aome kidney, 
eat them into thib BlioeB,aDd broil them with 
a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, paraiey, 
and green onions, and acloveof garuck,tfae 
whole should be slued fine; whooi they are 
sofficiently done, take them off the fire (they 
should not broil too long, or they will become 
tov^); add, when you serve than, a few 
drops of vinegar and a little cutlis. Beef 
kidneys may bkewise be served, widi shallot 
sance, or sauce piquanU, 



KIDNEY SAUCE. (Ste 



BEEF 
Sauce,) 



BEEF MINCED. <1) Take some cold 
roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the &t and 
suet, thai chop the meat as fine as possible, 
and put it into a reduced Spanish saucemade 
boiling hot; wh«i ready to serve, add a bit 
of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft 
boiled esgs round it, or with pieces of toasts 
ed bread. 

BEEF MINCED. (2) Muice your 
beef voy small; put it into a sauoepan with 
a little gravy aind a liuio uf the fi&t of 
fowl or any other lat, moisten it with some 
stock and a little white wine; season accord- 
ing to your taste, then let it simmer over a 
gentle fire till it is sufficiently done. 

BEEF OLIVES. Cut the beef into long 
thin steaks; prepare a forcemeat made of 
bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, cliopped 
parsley, a tittle grated lemon-peei, nuuneg, 
pepper, and sak; bind it with the yolks of 
eggs beaten; put a lay^* of it over each steak; 
roS and tie them with thread. Fry them 
fightly in beef dripping; put them in a stew- 
pan with some sood ^wn gravy, a glass of 
vHiite wine, and a little Cayome ; thioLen it 
with a little flour and butter; cover the pan 
closely, and let them stew gently an hour. 
Before serving, add a table-spoonnil of mush- 
room catchup; garnish with cut pickles. 

BEEF AND QYSTER SAUSAGES. 

Scald three-quarters of a pint of oysters in 
their own liquor; take them out and chop them 
finely ; mince one pound <^ beef and mutton, 
and'three-quarters of a pound of beef suet; 
add the oysters, and season with salt, pepper, 
mace, and two cloves pounded; beat up two 
^egs, and mix them well with the other mgre- 
dioits, and pad& itckwely into ajar. When 
to be used, roll it into the form of small sau- 
sages; dip them into the yolk of an egg beat- 
en up; strew grated bread crumbs over them, 
or dust with flour, and fiy them in fresh 
dripping. Serve them upon fiied bread hot. 



BEEF PRESSED. Sak a piece of far^ 
ket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of the 
ribs, with sak and sahpetie, five days, thss 
boil it gently till extninely tender; pot il 
under a great weight, or in a cheese pw, 
till perfectly cold. It eats exoeUendy cofal, 
and for sandwiches. 

BEEF POTTED. Take tfarae poiadb 
of lean beef, salt it two or three days with 
half a pound of common sah, and W aa 
ounce oif saltpetre; divide it into pieces of • 
pound each, and put it into an earthen mm 
just sufficient to contain it; pour in hsjf a 
pint of water ; cover it close with paste, ami 
set it in a vefy slow oven for four hours: whea 
taken finom the oven pour the gravy finom it 
into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it 
with the gravy poured finom the meat, and 
pound it thcNXHignly in a marble mortar with 
fi-esh butter, till it necomes a fine paste, sea- 
son it with black pepper and atllspioe, or 
cloves pounded, or grated nutmeg; put it ia 
pots, press it down as close as possible, pot 
a weight on it, and let it stand all nignl; 
next <ky, when it is quite cold, cover it a 
quaiter of an inch thick with clarified butter, 
and tie it over with paper. 

BEEF SALT ROUND. As diis is 
too larpie for a moderate fiunily, we shaO 
write directions for the dressing lialf a round. 
Get the tongue side. Skewer it up tiglit and 
round, and tie a fillet of broad tape rmmd il» 
to keep the skewers in their places. Put it 
into plenty of cold watnr, and carefolk 
catch the scum as soon as it rises: let it bul 
till all the scum is removed, and then put the 
boiler on one side of the fire, to keep sna- 
mering slowly till it is done. Half a round 
of 15li}s. will take about three hours: if it 
weighs more, give it more tinoe. When ynu 
take it up, if any stray scum, Itc. sticks %» 
it that has escaped the vigilance of your skim- 
mer, vmsh it ofi'with a paste-brusn: garnish 
the dishes with carrots and turnips. Send 
up carrots, turnips, and parsnips, or greens 
&c. on separate dishes. Peas podding, smd 
MT PDDDiKO, are all very proper accom- 
paniments. N.B.— Hie outside slices^ 
which are generally too much salted and too 
teuch boiled, will make a very good relish as 
potted beef. For using up toe remains of a 
joint of boiled beef, see also Bubble and 
Squeak. 

BEEF RAGOUT. Takearompofbeef» 
cut the meat firoro the bone, flour and fiy it, 
pour over it a little boiling water, about a 
pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an 
onion stuck witli cloves, some whole pepper, 
salt, a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet 
herbs; let it stew an hour, then add some 
good gravy; when the meat is tender take it 



BEE 



16 



BEE 



«Ht, ■train liie nnoe, thickeii it with a little 
flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little 
catchup, put in the meat, just siimner it up. Or 
the celery may be omitted, and the ragout en- 
riched by addmg mmhrooms fresh or pickjed, 
artichoke-bottoms boiled and quartered, and 
hard yolkg of eggs. A piece of flank, or 
anv piece that can be cut free fit>m bone, 
will do instead of the rump. 

BEEF RISSOLES. Chop finely a 
pound of lean tendor beef, and a quarter of a 
pound of beef suet ; pound them in a marble 
mortar; mix with it a quarter of apound of 
grated bread, a little onion, and a head of 
sarlick bruised ; season with sak and pepper; 
bind it with three effgs well beaten ; vaake it 
up into small cakes, 1^ them of a lig^it brown, 
then stew them in gravy for fifteen or twenty 



BEEP RIBS BONED AND ROLLED. 
When von have k^ two or three ribs of 
beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and 
skewer it as round as possible (like a fillet 
of veal) : before they roll it, some cooks es^ 
•t, and sprinkle it with veal stuffing. As the 
meat is mcMie in a solid mass, it will requii^ 
more time at the fire ; a piece <^ tenor twelve 
pounds weight wiD not be well and thoroughly 
roasted in less than fear and a half hours. 
For the first half hour, it should not be less 
than twelve inches fitim the fire, that it may 
get ffradually warm to the centre: the last 
half hour before it will be finished, sprinkle 
a little salt over it; and if you wish to fit>ih 
it, flour it, &c. 

BEEF RUMP BAKED. Take a rump 
of beef, what sire you plense, bone and lard 
it, season it with salt and fine spices put it 
into a Btewpaii just large enough to hoM it, 
together with half a pint of white wine, some 
men onions, mushnwms, and shallots ; some 
fean bacon is an traprovement. Ckee die 
edges of the pan with a strong paste ; let it 
stew in an oven for five or six hours according 
to the size iof your meat, then serve it with 
its own sauce strained. You may dress a sir- 
bin in the same way. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (1) Bind 
the beef tightly, stick in four cloves, and put 
it in a saucepan, with three quarts of water, 
a quarter of an ounce of black pqiper half 
beaten, srane sah, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and three anchovies ; Sim it often, and wlien 
half done take it out, pour off the liquor ; put 
in the beef again, with a pint of Port wnie 
and half a pint of table beer made scalding 
hot, and some of the liquor strained ; stew it 
till tender, clear off the &t, and if the sauce 
is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef 
gravy ; thicken it witli flour niblied down in 



a little cold water. IHdi the beef, and poor 
the gravy romid it. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (2) Tie 

up the beef, and put it <mi to stew with nearly 
as much coM water as will cover it; add three 
pounds of fyt bacon cut into slices, a handfiil 
of thyme, eight onions, four nnafl carrots, 
two turnips, two w throe bay •leaves, some 
bhck pepper, a little allspioe, mace, and 
three cloves, a^ pint of Port wine and one of 
Sherry. Let it stew gmtly between seven 
and eig^ hours. Take out the beef, strain 
the liquor, and skim off all the fiit ; thickcD 
it wiUi a little flour rubbed down in cold 
water, boil it up, and pour it over the beeH 
Have ready carrots and turnips, cut accord- 
ing to hncy, and boiled tender in weak gra- 
vy, and put them round the beef beforevsenr- 
ing. 

B E E F RL MP^TEAKS STEWED. 
The steaks must be a little thicker than for 
broiling: let them be all the same thickness, 
or some will be done too little, and others too 
much. Put an ounce of butter into a Mew- 
pan, with two onions; when the butter is 
melted, lay in the rump^eteaks, let than stand 
over a slow fire for five minutes, then turn 
thf>m and k^t the other side of them fir for 
five minutei" linger. Have ready boiled a 
pint of button unions; they wiFI take from 
half an hour to an hour; nut the liquor th^ 
were boiled in to the steaks ; if there is not 
enough of it to cover them, add broth or boil- 
ing water, to make tip enougji (or that purpose, 
with a dozen corns of black pepper, and a 
little salt, and let them Bimmnr very gently 
for about an hour md a half, and then sti-ain 
off as much of the liquor (about a pint and 
a hah*) as you think will make the sauce. 
Put two ounces of butt»* into a stewpan ; 
when it is melted, stir in as much floui* as 
will make it into a stiff paste; some add 
tliereto a table-spoonfol of chret, or Port 
wine, the same of mushroom catchup half a 
teuHspoonftil of salt and a (|uaiter of a tea- 
spoonfol of ground black pepper: add tlie 
li(p)r by degrees; let it boil up for fifteen 
minutes; skim it, and strain it; serve up the 
steaks with die onions round the dishjand pour 
tlie gravy over. V^ cutlets or mutton chopa 
may be done tlie same. way, or as veal olives. 

BEEF RUMP-STEAK BROILED 
WITH ONION G?IAVY. Peel and slice 
two large onions, put Uiem into a quart stew- 
pan, wiUi two table-spoonfiils of water ; cover 
the stewpan close, aoid set it on a slow fire 
till the water has boiled away, and the onions 
have got a little browned ; then add half a 
pint of good broth, and boil the onions tin 
thev are tender; strain the broth fixun them, 
and chop them verv fine, and season it witfa 



b£i;f 



It 



BEEP 



pq^per, and ak: put the 
QBkn into it, and let it boil gmtly for five 
miiHities; pour it into the diah, and lay over it 
a broiled nimp steak. If instead o[ broth 
TOQ use good Deef gravy, it will be super- 
htive. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. Take two beef 
steaks about the size of two hands, and tlie 
thickneeBofafinger; beat them well to make 
them flat, and pare the edges of them ; then 
minoe the parmgs with mef suet, panley, 
green onions, mnshrooms, two shaJlots, and 
aome basil leaves, the whole shred fine/and 
mixed into a forcemeat with the yolks of four 
q^; spread this forcemeat on the slices of 
leef, and roll tbem up in the fonn of saoBaces j 
tie than up with packthread, and stew mem 
with a little stock, a glass c^ wine, some salt, 
pepper, an onion stuck with two or three 
cloves, a carrot, and a parmip; when they 
are done, strain the liquor; and, having 
skimmed off the fot, rechioe it over the fire 
to the consistence c^ a sauce. Take care 
that the sauce is not too higly flavored, and 
serve it over your sausages; or they may be 
served with any ragout of vegetables you 
please. To serve tlie sausages cold, to make 
a didi for the second oowse, leduce the sauce 
bv letting it boil with the sausages till ahnost 
afl the ^ is consumed ; then let them stand 
to cool with what remains of the sauce ad* 
boring to them, and serve upon a napkin. 

BEEF, SHORT OR SPICED. (To 
be eaten cold.) Hang up ten or twelve 
pounds of the middle part of a brisket of 
beef for three or four dayn, then rub well into 
it three ounces of finely powdered saltpetre, 
and, if spice is approved of, one ounce of 
allspice, and half an ounce of black peroer; 
let It stand all night, then sak it with three 
pounds of well-pounded bay salt, and half a 
pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten 
days, nfobing it dai^. When it is to be 
boiled, sew it closely m a cloth, let the water 
aoh simmer, upon no account allowing it to 
bou, for nine hours over a slow fire, or upon a 
stove. Whea taken out of the water, place 
two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand 
over the steam for half an hour, turning it 
irom side to side, then press it with a h^vy 
weight. It must not be taken out of tlie 
cloth till perfectly cold. 

BEEF SOUP. (See Sm^,) 

BEEF, SPRING GARDEN. Cut a 
piece of lean beef into thin slices like Scotch 
eoUope, lard it thick with bacon, and put it 
into a pan with salt, oepper, mace, two or 
three bay leaves, and a Dunch of sweet herbs ; 
bake U ; then clear out all the gravy, and fill 
it op with clarified butter. 
2» 



BEEF TO SALT FOR IM MEDtATK 

USE. Sak a round of braf moderately ai^ 
on the tops and sides, put it upon sticks, or 
the tongs of a cheese-Cub, over a tub of cold 
water, and the sak wtO be drawn thromh it» 
so that it will be fit for boiling next day. 

ANOTHER METHOD IS— To nib 
fcMT half an hour into any piece of beef a good 
quantity of salt, and let it lie for thiee or 
four days without touching it, when it may 

BEEF SIRLOIN. The noble sirloin oT 
about fifteen pounds (if much thicker, the out- 
side will be done too much bdbre the insida 
is enousfa), will reunire to be before the fire 
about three and a half or four hours ; take 
care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
heavier on one side than the other; putalittla 
clean dripping into the drippingpan, (tie a 
sheet cf paper over it to preserve the fit), 
baste it well as soon as it is put down, anil 
every quarter of an hour all the time it ia 
roasting, till the last half hour ; then take 
off the paper, and make some gravy for it ; 
stir the fire aiid make it clear: to brown and 
firoth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it 
with butter, and dredge it with flour; let it 
go a few minutes lon^, till the fi-oth rises, 
take it up, put it on tfee didi, &c Garnish it 
with hillocks of horse-radish, scraped as fine 
as possible with a very sharp knife. A York* 
sliii^ pudding Li an excellent accolI^)animeut. 

BEEF SHIN STEWED. Desire the 
butcher to saw the bone into three or four 
pieces, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
It with cold water; when it simmers, skim 
it clean ; then put io a bundle of sweet herbs, 
a large onion, a head of celery, a doxen ber- 
ries of black pepper, and the same of allspicec 
stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat 
is tender; tills will take fit>m about three 
hours and a half, to four and a half. Take three 
carrots, peel and cut them into small squares ; 
peel and cut ready in small squares a couple 
of turnips, with a couple of dozen of small 
young round silver button onions ; boil them, 
'till tender; the turnips and onions will be 
enough in about fifteen minutes ; the carrola 
will require about twice as long: drain them 
dry. When the beef is quite tender, take it 
out carefiillv with a slice, and nut it on a dish 
while you thicken a pint and a naif of the gra^ 
Ty: to do this, mix three table-spoonfiils of 
flour with a tea-cupfol of the beef liquor ; stir 
this thoroughl]^ together till it boib, skim off 
the fet, strain it through a sieve, and put your 
vegetables in to warm; season with pepper, 
salt, and a wine-glass of mushroom catchu,), 
or Port wine, or both, and pour it over th ^ 
beef. Dr. Kitchener commends this dish aa 
one of the very best that can be cairied te 



BEEF 



JH 



BJbBR 



table, and advises it be called Ragout Betf. 
A LEG OF Mutton is excellent dreased 
tbe same way. 

BEEF STEAKS, BROILED. Cm 
the steaks offa nmip or the ribs of a fore 
Quarter ; beat them well with a rolling-pin. 
Have the gridiron perfectly clean and iK^ated 
over a clear quick fire ; lay on the steaks, 
and, with meat tongs, keep turning them con- 
stantly, till they are done enough ; throw a 
little salt over them a little before taking them 
oif the fire. Sei-ve them as hot as possible, 
plain, or with a made gravy and sliced on- 
ion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks 
the moment of serving. Mutton chops are 
broiled in the same manner. 

BEEF STEAKS, STEWED. Fry the 

steaks in a little butter; take them out of the 
pan, and firv in it a minced onion ; rebun the 
steaks, with i little boiling watel* or gravy, 
some pepper, salt, and a teible-s{<oonflil of vin- 
egar ; stew them gently for two or diree hours ; 
thicken the sauce with butter roiled in flour ; 
and serve with or without pickles. 



BEEF STEAK PIE. (See Pie.) 



BEEF STEAK PUDDING. 
Pudding.} 



(See 



BEEF STEAKS, DRESSED. Oit 
thin steaks, bnger than tliey are broad, off a 
rump; beat them with a rolling-pin ; seascHi 
them with pepper, salt, and finely minced 
onion ; roll and tie them with a thread ; cut 
them even at tlie ends ; £7 them brown with 
a little butter ; make a sauce with a piece* of 
butter browned with flour, some gravy or 
water, a minced onion, pepper, and salt. 
Boil it, and add the steaks, and let them stew 
an hour. Before serving, add some mush- 
room catchup, and take off the threads. 

BEEF, SCARLET. Mix a little mace, 
ck>ve8, allspice, black pepper, and salt- 
petre togethei', rub it well into two pounds of 
tender lean beef; let it lie six da^, tinming 
it daily, and rubbins it with tlie pickle ; then 
roll and tie it firmly with tape ; put it and 
the pickle into a small jar, with a slice or 
two of beef suet under and over it ; tie it ck;se- 
ly, and bake it an hour. It is eaten cold, 
cut in thin slices, and garnish with parsley. 
If k>ng kept, the cofor fiides. 

BEEP STEWED. (1) Stew in five 
quarts of water the middle part of a brisket 
of beef weighing ten pounds, add two onions 
stuck with two cloves, one head of celery, 
one large carrot, two turnips cut small, a 
handful of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of 
tdack pepper, and acme salt. Stew it gent- 



ly for six hours. Make a strong sreny t 

r arrets and turnips, the turnips to be Scraped 
and filed of a brown color in butter ; add 
pepper, sah, a little Cayenne ; thicken it with 
flour and butter, and pour it over the beef^ 
witli the carrots and turnips. 

BEEF STEWED. (2) Take ten 

pounds of a brisket of beef, cut the short ribff, 
and put it into a well-buttered saucepan, with 
two large onions, stuck with three or four 
cfoves, two or Aree carrots cot into quarterB, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, a small lemon sliced, 
and five quaits of water ; let it stew seven 
hours. Strain and clarify the gravy— -thicken 
it with butter and flour. Chop the carrots 
with some capers, mushroom catchup, and 
Cayenne. Any other pickle that is liked may 
be added. 

BEEF STOCK. (See Stock.) 

BEEF, MUTTON, OR VEAL TEA. 
Cut a pound of lean gravy meat into thin 
slices; put it into a quart and half a pint of 
cold water ; set it over a very gentle fte, 
where it will become gradually warm ; when 
the scum rises, let it continue sinmierin|g 
gently for about an hour; then strain it 
through a fine sieve or a napkin ; let it stand 
te^ minutes to settle, and then pour off the 
clear tea. N. B. — ^An onion, and a few 
grains of black pepper, are sometimes added. 
If the meat is. boiled till it is tlioroughly 
tender, you may mince it and pound it and 
make pot^ bm. 

BEEF TRIPE FRICASSEE. Let 
yonr tripe be ^leiT white, cut it into slips, 
put it into some boiled gravy, with a little 
cream and a bit of butter mixed with flour; 
stir it till the butter is melted; add a little 
white wine, lemon-peel grated, chopperl 
parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mush- i 
rooms, or lemon-juice ; shake all together; I 
stew it a little. ! 

BEER, SPRUCE. When toi ffallon 
of water, six pounds of molasses, and three 
ounces of bruised ginger have boiled tt^eth- 
er for half an hour, two pounds of the outer 
sprigs of the spruce fir are to be added, and 
boiled for five minutes ; the whole is then lo 
be strained through a hair sieve, and whea 
milk-warm, put into the cask, and a tea- 
cupful of good yeast stured well into it. 
Wnen it has fermented a day or two, it is to 
be bunged up, and the following day hot- 
tied. It will be fit for use in a week. Thb 
ginger is sometimes omitted, and instead 
of the spruce fir, three ounces of the easenoe 
may be used, which is to be well whisked, 
together with the molasses, and a gallon or 
two of warm water; .then put into the cask. 



B££R 



19 



8lS 



«Ucfa is to be liDed op with water, and the 
>CBst added. 

BEER, SPRUCE. (2) The prapor- 
tioae are ten gallons of water, three quarts 
of BwlaBses, a tea-<iipfiil of ginger, the 
of aUspioe, three ounces of hops, 
oonoes and a half of the es s en c e of 
and half a pint of good yeast. The bops, 
giocer, and allspice, most be boiled tog^- 
cr till the hops fiill to the bottom; the molas- 
ses and sprace are then to be dissolved in a 
backet-Aill of the liquor, the whole strain- 
ed into a cask, and the yeast^eH stiired in ; 
when die fermentation ceases, the cask is 
la be banged up. 

BEER, BALM. Eleven gaHoos of 
water and ten pounds of brown sugar are 
to be clarified with the whites of twelve 
eggs, carefully skimmed and boiled till 
nearly reduced to ten gaUons ; two pounds 
and a half of the ydww flower of lemon 
babn being put into a cask, the licpior, 
when milk-warm, is to be poured over it, 
and four or five table-spoonfuls of thick 
yeast added. The cask must be filled up 
morning and evening with what works over 
it, and foimged. up when the fermentation 
ceases. In a month the beer may De bottled, 
and in two or tluree months it will be fit for 
drinking. HM the quantity of the flower 
of ionon balm will probab'^ be found to 
communicate a flavor sufficiently strong, if 
added when the fermentation is nearly over. 

BEER, GINGER. For a ten-gallon 
cask, eleven gallons of water, fourteen 
pounds of sugar, the juice of eighteen iem- 
(ms, and one pound of ginger are allowed; 
the sugar and water are boiled with the 
whites of eight eggs, and well skimmed ; 
just befiune coming to the boiling point, the 
eincer, which must be bruised, is then ad- 
ded, and boiled fw twenty minutes ; when 
cold, Uie clear part is put mto the cask, to- 
gether with the lemon-juice and two spoon- 
iiils of yeast; when it has fermented for 
three or four days, it is fined, bunced up, 
and in a fortni^t bottled. It may be made 
widmot the finit. 

BEER, GINGER, QUICKLY MADE. 
A galloa of boiling water is poured over 
three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one 
ounce and a quarter c^ §[inger, and the peel 
of one lemon; when milk-warm, the juice 
of the lenum and a spoonful (^ yeast are ad- 
ded. It should be made in the evening, and 
bottled next morning, in half^int stone bot- 
tki, and the cork wA down with twine. 

BEER TO BOTTLE. When the 
briskness and liveliness of malt liquors in 



Ike caA fell, and they beeoM dead mi 
vapid, which they generally do soon ajflsr 
they are tilled; let them be bottled. Be 
caiefiil to use clnn and dried bottles; leava 
them unstopped for twelve hours, and then 
cork them as closely as possthfe with good 
and sound new corks; put a bit of lump sn> 
gar as big as a nutmeg mto each bottfe: 
the beer will be ripe, t. s. ibie and spark- 
ling, in about four or five weeks: if tha 
weather is cold, to put it up the day before 
it is drunk, place it in a room where there 
is a fire. Beaenber there is a sediment, 
Itc. at the bottom of the bottles, which yoa 
nmst carefully avoid disturbing ; so pour it 
<^ at once, leaving a wf 



*«* If beer beeomes hard or stale, a few 
grains of carbonate of potash added to it 
at the time it is drunk will correct it, and 
make draught beer as Drisk as bottled ale. 

BEET ROOT, May be either baked 
or boiled; it will take fitMu an hoar and a 
half to three hours, according to the siieof 
the root, to cook properly. 

BEET ROOT PICKLED. BoU Urn 
roots tender, peel, and cut them in what 
shape you please. Put them into a jar, and 
pour over them a hot pickle of vineear, pep> 
per, giiwer, and sliceid horae-radim. You 

y add capsicums and Cayenne. 



may i 
BENTON SAUCE. 



{See Sauce.) 



BENTON CAKES. (See Caket.) 
BIRDS POTTED, how to pri- 

SERTS WHEN THET BEOIM TO GROW 

BAD. When birds have come a great way 
they often smell so bad that they can scarce- 
ly be home fW>m the rankness of the butter, 
Iby managing them in the following manner 
they may be made as good as ever. Set a 
laige saucepan of cleui water on the fire; 
wlwn it boils take off the butter at the top, 
then take the fowls out one by one, throw 
them into that saucepan of water half a 
minute, whip it out, and dry it in a cloth 
inside and out; continue till they are all 
done, scald the pot clean; when the birds 
are quite cold, season them with maoe, 
pepper and ssdt, according to taste, put 
them down close in a pot, and pour clari- 
fied butter over them. 

BISCUITS. (1) Weigh eight eggs, an 
equal weight of sugar, and the weight of fixir 
in flour; beat up the yolks of five, and put 
them in an earthen vessel vnth some rasped 
lemon-peel and the sugar, beat them togeth- 
er for a long time, then add the whites of 
eleven eggs also well beaten, then mix in the 



BIS 



30 



BI5 



6oar by degrees, pour this ihto paper 
of whatever form and size you plea^ ; strew 
powder sugar over them, and bake in a cool 
oven. 

BISCUITS. (2) Make a pound of flour, 
die yolk of an egg, and some milk into a 
very stiff paste ; beat it well, knead til) quite 
smooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, 
prick and bake in a dow oven till dry and 
crisp. 

BISCUITO, ALMOND. (1) Blanch 
and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet al- 
monds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine 
augar ; then beat them up for a quarter of an 
hmst with an ounce of flour, the yolks of three 
ms, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding 
afterwards the whites of four eggs whipped to 
a firoth: have I'cadysome paper moulds made 
like boxes, about the length of two fingers 
8(juare; butter them within, and put in the 
biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities 
of flour and powdered sugar: bake in a cool 
oven, and when the biscuits are done of a 
good color, take them out of the papers. 
Bitter almond biscuits are made in the same 
manner, with thb diflerence, that to two 
ounces of bitter almonds roust be added cHie 
ounce of sweet almonds. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (2) Take 
eight ounces of sweet, and as many bitter al- 
monds, fifteen whites, and eight yolks ofeggB, 
two ounces of flour, and two pounds of powder 
sugar, pour boiling water on your almonds, 
and almost immediately after turn that away 
and pour cold water on them ; rub off the 
skins one by one with a napkin, then pound 
them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them 
with the whites of two eggs. Beat me fif- 
teen whites to a snow, and the eight yolks 
witli half the quantity of the sugar, and tlien 
mix them with the almond paste; put the 
remainder of the sugar into a basin ; sift some 
flour over it; stir the mixture till all the^in- 
gredients are thoroughly incorporated, and 
pour it into small paper cases, glaze them 
with the sugar and flour sifted over them. 
Bake them in a pretty warm ovoi. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND ( SMALL). 
Beat up the yolks of three eggs for ten min- 
Qtes, with four ounces of powder sugar and 
one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded ; 
then add a whole egg, and beat it up five 
minutes longer. Whip the whites to a strong 
froth ; mix than and an ounce and half of 
fine sifted flour with the yolks; work this 
raste well, and then pour it into small well- 
buttered copper moulds melon^aped ; glaze 
them; sprinkle them with powder sugar, 
and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in 
a moderate oveo. 



BISCUITS, ALMOND (Sovrrhtt}. 

Blanch half a pound of sweet abnonds* out 
them into dice and dry them in the • 
Make a glaze with the whites of two ; 
laid eggs ; mix the almonds and a pinch of 
Tisped orange-flowers into this, and put it 
into very small paper cases; do not fill then 
above half fiill, as they rise considerably ia 
Uie oven, and would otherwise &II over and 
spoil their appearance; bake thou in a 
moderately h^ted oven. As soon as thej 
are pretty firm, they are done. • , 

BISCUITS, ANISE (SMALL). Wash 
four drachms of starred anise, and dry it in 
the oven ; work up the yolks of five eggs and 
a quarter of a pound of powder sugar for 
about ten minutes; whip the whites to a 
strong fi^th, and mix them lightly with die 
yolks: add a quarterof apoundof dry sifted 
flour and the anise ; pour this paste into a 

per case, eleven inches long fay seven wide, 
it in a slow oven for about forty or 
fifty minutes, wh»i, if firm, take it out. Aa 
soon as it is cold remove die paper, and eat 
the biscuits into whatever forms you |deaae: 
dry them in the oveu until th^ hecuBw 
brittle. 

BISCUIT, BREAD. Dry fine floo- and 
powder sugar, of each half a pound, thor- 
oughly: beat up four very firesh eggs for ten 
minutes, then add the sugar, beat them ten 
minutes longra*, put the flour, and continue 
beating ten minutes more. Butter yoiv bak- 
ing plates and bake. Caraway or ; ' 
may be added, if you please. 

BISCUITS, BUTTER. Make a i 
as {ot sweet biscuits, and when you faB\o 
put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of 
melted butter, after it has cooled a little; 
mix them together a short time with a wood> 
en spoon, and pot into buttered moulds, 
which must only be filled three parts, as the 
paste pofis up oonsidarably, and would risi 
from the moulds, without care. 

BISCUIT CAKE. {See Cake.) 

BISCUITS, CHESTOUT. Take six 

ounces of roasted and skinned chestnuts, a 
little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a ha f 
of powder sugar, and ten whites of eggs. 
Pound the chestnuts to a paste, and then 
beat it up in an earthen pan with the otber 
in^edients ; when your paste is (^ a proper 
thickness, take it up with a knife, and lay 
it on paper, and form into biscuits wfaatev^ 
size you please. Bake them in a moderate 
oven, and when of a nice color take them 
out. Do not remove them from the paper 
till they are cokL 



Btfl 



ffl 



BIS 



BISCUITS, DROP. (1) Pound and sift 
ft pound of fine sugar, take the yolks of seven 
•ad the whites of ten eggv and beat well aepa- 
laldy for an hour. Ihy and sift a pound of 
fine ikiiir, and whoi cold mix it with the 
ms and sugar, beat all together for aquarter 
oTan hoar, drop upon paper, sift sugar over, 
and bake them. 



' BISCUITS, DROP. (2) Beat a pound 
of sugar, the yolks of four, and whites erf* two 
eggs, with a littfe white wine, then put in a 
pound of flour, and a few seeds, mix all well 
logethar. Butter a paper, by your batter 
on in spoonfob, ice than wim fine sugar, 
and set them in a gentle oven. 

BISCUrrS en capsule. Put half 
a pound oi fine sugar into an earthen pan, 
and pour over it the yolke oi twelve eggs; 
put the whites into a preserving-pan, and 
whisk them for half an hour ; in the mean- 
time the sugar and yolks of egss must he 
stirred with a wooden spoon, aiMl pour them 
on the whites; stir them gently, add six 
ounces of fine floia* and two of powder susar 
sifted, and the grated rind of a lemon. Nix 
il all wdl together, but with ffreat care, lest 
the snow of the whites should fiUl. Widi 
tiiis fill some small buttered moulds, or pa- 
per cases, and bake them in a quick oven to 
a deep yellow, Gm sprinkling them with su- 
gar, a they are in moulds, turn them out 
when baked; but th^ may remain in the 
paper cases, which need not be buttered. 

BISCUITS, FILBERT. Take half a 
pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter almonds, 
the whites of six, and the yolks of three 
egg8, an ounce of fiour, and half a pound of 
sugar; blanch and pound the filberts and 
almonds, adding, occasionally, a little white 
oi egg to prevent their oihnff. Beat the 
whites to a snow, then the yoDtf , mix the 
tatter with half the sugar; beat them well, 
and having mixed the other ingredients to- 
gether, put them into a sieve, and whilst 
yon are beating, sift them into the whites; 
when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour 
the preparation into papa* cases, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. A little grated 
lemort-peel, or any other aromatic ingre- 
dient added to the yolks, greatly improves 
these biscuits. 

BISCUIT, FRENCM. Weigh five eggs, 
and tiieir weight in dried and sifted fiour, 
and in finely-pounded loaf sugar ; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff (iroth, and by 
dq^rees beat in die susar and tlie flour, and 
dien add the beaten yolks ; with a spoon half 
fill ydlow tea-cupe, previously rubbed with 
butter, and sift k>af Sugar over the top. Bake 
<hem in a qpiick oven. Or, drop the biscuit 



in a round fena opon sheett of whin piptf 

buttered; sift sugar over tben* 

BISCUIT, KINO*8. Pm iulf a povd 
of butter into a basin, and work it abool 
well with a wooden spoon; braak six mm 
and whiA them well, add a l«lf poimd of 
powder-sugar, and whisk ten mimles l ung er» 
and then mix them with the butler; stir ia 
six ounces of currants, and tfaesame of dried 
floor. When all is well mixed, drop it, thr 
siae of a shidiitf, on paper, and bake in ft 
quick oifeo. T^e them ofl" white boC 

BISCUIT. LEMAN*S. Sift and (h^ 
a pound of fine floor; rub it into a quutar 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of p 



and sifted knf sugar, and a bit of voktilu 
salt about the siae of anut; mix in m tauck 
new milk warmed as will make it intoastiff 
paste; work it well together, and let it r^ 
main for two or three hours, and then roll it 
out, and inake it into small square biscuits, 
and into round balls a little flattened ; |irick 
them with a fork, aad. bake them upon tina 
in a quick oven. T&ke care they do aot 
become brown. 

BISCUITS, NAPLES. PW tlaw- 

quarters of a pound of fine flour to a pound 
of fine sifted sugar; sift bodi together three 
tunes, then add six eggs beaten well, and a 
qpoMifiil i)f rose-water; when the oven ia 
nearly hot, bake them, but not too wet. 

BISCUIT, THE J^UNS. Take tht 
whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a 
fivth ; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and 
beat them with the firoth of the whites of 
eggs, as it rises; then take the yolks, and 
two pounds of fine sugar and beat them well 
together, then mix the almonds with the 
sugar and eggs; then add half a pound of 
flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and 
some citron shred small ; uat the composition 
in little cakepaiis, and bake them in a quick 
oven, and wlien they are cokx^, turn them 
on tins to haixlen the bottoms : but before yoa 
set than in the oven again, sift on them some 
double-refined sugar. Let the pans be bu^ 
tered, and fill them half way. 

BISCUITS, POTATO. (1) Beat the 
yolks of fifteen eg^ with a pound of sifted 
sugar, grate the nnd of a lemon on a piece 
(^lump sugar; scrape off' the yellow sugar 
witli a knifo, and having dried it well, add 
it to tlie above, smd continue to beat till it 
becomes quite white ; in the meantime whip 
up an equal number of whites, and mix them 
lightly with the rest; then sift into it half a 
pound of potato flour; stir it in, and pour 
the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill 
them; glaae, and place the oases on papor 



BIS 



2S 



BIS 



laid on a clean baking-tin, and bake in a 
moderate oveui 

BISCUIT, POTATO. <2) Beat sepa- 
rately the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, and 
with the yolks beat a pound of pounded and 
siAed loat sugar, and the grated peel of a lem- 
on ; when vei7 li^t add the whites, and sift in 
through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of 
potatoes; mix all lightly together, half fill 
paper cases, and strew over them roughly 
pounded sugar, put a piece of paper upon a 
board, pla^ the paper cases upon it, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament 
them, put here and there upon the top a 
little red-currant jeliy, and serve them. 

BISCUITS, THE QUEEN'S. Take 
a pound and a half <^ flour, a pound and a 
half of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, 
and the yolks of eighteen e^, put in cori- 
ander seeds beaten small at discretion; mix 
these well together, and make them into a 
•oft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay 
this paste on fKiper, or in crusts about two 
inches broad, and four inches long, set them 
in a mod'-j'ate oven, and when Uiey begin 
to turn brown, take them out, and lay than 
on paper, in a dry place. 

BISCUITS, RICE. Take the grated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, 
the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, 
ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of 
apple, and the same of apricot, marmalade, 
and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound 
the marmalades and orange-flowers together, 
then add the whites of eggs, whipped to a 
■now ; beat the yolks with the sugar for a 
quai'ter of an hour, put tliem to tlie rest, and 
when well mixed in, add the lemon-peel and 
rice-flour ; work all together, pour the prep- 
aration into paper cases, bake them in a 
moderate oven, and glaze them. 

BISCUITS, SMALL. Make a paste 
with a quarter of a pound of flour, tlu^ee 
spoonfuls of fine powder sugar, and the same 
of marmalade ; add whites of egga to work 
it pretty soft ; and make this paste to what 
dbape and size you please* 

BISCUITS, SPUNGE. Beat together, 
for half an hour, four well-beaten ^Ks, and 
half a pound of finely-pooided loaf-sugar ; 
then mix in lightly six ounces of dried and 
sifled^our, and tlie grated peel of a lemon, 
or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a 
table-spoonful of rose water. Flour the 
pans, fill them half foil, and sift pounded 
Mgai* over them. Bake them in a quick oven. 

BISCUITS, ST. CLOUD. Sift two 
of rioe-flour through a tammy into an 



earfben pan, with half a pound of powdsr 
sugar, the yolks of four eags, and a Uttla 
green lemon grated; beat oem up togedier 
for a quarter of an hour: whidi the whites 
of eight eggs to a ^th and mix them with 
the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or 
paper cases, and bake in a moderate oveo. 
When done take them from the mould while 
hot, and ice them in the following manoo': 
beat up half the white of an egg and two 
spofmfuls of powder-sugar with a woodeo 
spoon, add occasimially a few drops of lem- 
on-juice ; when it becomes quite white lay it 
over the biscuits ; and place them -in the ovea 
a minute to dry. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (1) The weight of 
eight eg^ in fineiy-pounded loaf sugar, and 
of four m dried flour ; beat separately the 
whites and volks ; with the yolks beat the 
sugar for half an hour, then add the whites 
and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg, 
lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake 
them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upoo 
paper, as the French biscuits. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (2) Mix together 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of pounded and sified loaf sqgar, 
ten well-beaten ^gs, and a few pomufed 
cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and 
bake it. 

BISCUIT, SWEET, One pound of 
flour, half a pound of butto:, the same quan- 
tity of finely-pounded sugar, and two egg^i, 
without being beaten; make it all into e 
very stiff paste with cool water, roll it out, 
and to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the 
paste into a ball about tlie size of the yolk 
of an egg, flatten it a little, and place tnem 
upon tins to bake. 

BISCUITS, YARMOUTH. Pick and 
wash half a pound of cuirants, dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, aiid put them 
with half a pound of powder-«ugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half 
a pound of firesh butter; mix tliem into a 
paste with three eggs, roll it out to the 
Uiickiiess of the eighth of an inch, cut them 
into what shapes you please. Bake than oi 
a light color in a hot oven. 

BISHOP. Roast four good-sized bitter 
orana;e8 till they are of a pale brown ookir; 
lay them in a tureen, and put over them half 
a pound of pounded loat sugar, and three 
glasses of claret; place the cover on th^ 
tureen, and let it stand till next day. Whea 
required for use, put the tureen into a pan of 
boiling water, press the oranges with a spooo. 
and run the juice through a sieve ; then boil 
the remainder of the bottle of claret, takii^ 



BLA 



2S 



BLA 



nre that it do not burn; add it to the 
ed joioe, and serve it warm in glasBes. 

BLANC. A mixture of butter, ealt, 
water, and a sf ioe of lemon ; ako as foOows : 
— Oit a pound of beef suet, and the sameof 
frt bacon into dice, half a pound <^ butto*, 
the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, one or 
two onions, a hunch of parsley, a little thyme, 
a hay leaf and q)ice. 



BLANCMANGE. (1) To one ounce of 
picked isinglass, put a pint of water, boil it 
tin the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- 
namon ; put to it three-quarters of a pint of 
cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six 
bittn- ones blanched and beaten, a bit of 
femon-peely sweeten it, stir it over the &e, 
let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze in 
the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds ; 
gamirii to your &ncy. Bbmcman^ may be 
colored green by adding spiuach-juice ; red, 
by a bit of cochineal in tnrandy, let it stand 
balf an hour and strain it ; yellow with 
nffiron. 

BLANCMANGE. (2) Boil for a few 
minntes a pint and a half of new ^ilk, with 
an ounce of picked isinglass (if in suramo*, 
one ounce and a quarter), the rind of half a 
lemon peeled Very thin, a little cinnamon, 
and a olade of mace, and two and a half 
omoes of tump sugar: blanch' and pound 
eight or ten bitter, and half an ounce of 
sweet ahnondcrvery fine, with a spoonful of 
rose water, and mix them with the milk; 
strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into 
a basin, with half a pint of ^ood cream. 
Let it stand half an hour; pour it into 
another basin, leaving the sediment at the 
botUnn, and when nearly cold fill it into 
moulds ; when wanted, put yonr finger round 
the mtmld; pull out the blancmange; set 
it in the oenti'e of a didi, and garnish 
with slices of orange. N. B. — ^Abont lialf a 
giD of noyeau may be substituted for the al- 
monds. 

BLANCMANGE. (3) Boil tiU dissolv 
ed, in a large tea-cupfiil of water, three-quar^ 
tors of an ounce of isinglass; when milk- 
warm, add it to a quart of rich cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or 
three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds ; 
tweelbsa with pounded loaf sugar; stir it 
over the fire, and let it boil for two or three 
minutes; strain it through a bit of muslin 
into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, 
thai pour it into an earthen-ware mould or 
Aatpa; the following day, dip the mould into 
warm water for a minute or so, clap it with 
the hand to loosen the edge, place the glass 
or china diah ova* the mould, and turn it 
001 quickly upon die dish. As much oow- 



heel stock as will half fill the shape may H 
suhstibited for the ittngkus. 

BLANCMANGE. (4) Blanch and pound 
with a little ratafia, or rose-water, two 
ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dis* 
solve three-quarters of an ounce of isinriasB ; 
add it, when milk-warm, to a quart ol good 
cream; half milk half cream may be »ed; 
mix in the almonds the peel of a smal! lem- 
on, and a bit of cinnamon ; sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugai*, let it stand for two or 
three hours, put it into a saucepan, stir it 
constantly, and let it boil for six or eight 
minutes; strain it through a lawn sieve, imd 
stir it till nearly cold, then pour it uito a 
mould. 

BLANCMANGE. (5) Blanch and poind 
one ounce of sweet abnonds with a elass of 
sherry, and a table-spooofiil of pounded loaf 
su^r; add it to three-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of water, 
and boil it till the flavor of the almonds bo 
extracted, stirring it all the time; strain it 
through a bit of diin muslin, and mix with 
it a quart of good cream; stir it till quite 
cold, and pour it into a e' 



BLANCMANGE, AMERICAN. Mix 

ludf a pint of cold water with two ounces of 
arrowroot, let it settle for fifteen minutes, 
pour off the water, and add a table-spoon- 
ful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweet- 
en a quart of new milk, boil it with a little 
cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; pick 
out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the 
boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stirring it 
all the time. Put it into a mouki, and turn 
it out the following day. 

BLANCMANGE, DUTCH. Wash one 
ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint 
and a half of boiling water over it, let it 
stand for an hoar, and then boil it for twen- 
ty minutes; strain, and when it is nearly 
cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a 
pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one and 
juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinna- 
mon, and sweeten with pounded k)af sugar; 
stir it over the fire tiU it begin to simmer, 
but do not allow it to boil; pick out the 
peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a 
shape. 

BLANCMANGE EGGS. Make a small 
hole at tlie end of four m* five large ems, 
and let out all the egg carefoUy ; wash die 
shell, drain, and fill li^m with blancmange, 
place them in a deep dish filled with rice or 
iMurley to keep them steady, and when auite 
cold, gently break and peel off the shell. 
Cut tlw pc«l of a lemon into delk»tely fine 



BRA 



24 



BRB 



dbreds, la^ tbem imo a glaai dish, and put 
in the eg^; or serve than in a glaae diah 
with a pink cream round them. 

BLACK GOCK, MOOR GAME, AND 
GROUSE, Are all to be dressed like par- 
tridges; the black cock will take as much 
as a pheasant, and moor game and grouse 
as the partridge. Send up with them cur- 
rantjeuy anfl fried bread crumbs. 

BOILING. See directiens at beginning 
of the book. 

BCMAR CAKE. Set Cais. 

BRANDY PUDDING. See Pudding. 

BRAISING PAN. A deep weH-tinned 
copper Teasel, with two ears, the Hd of which 
must close hermetically, and have a ~ 
round so that coals or hot ashes may 
placed on the top when necessary. 

* BRAISING. This is a method of 
dressing meat, poultry, fee. fee. without its 
undei^ing any evaporation. It is done by 
lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, 
beef, or veal, upon which place whatever 
yott may intend to braise, and also add 
carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, 
pepper and salt. 

BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, 
scrap, and clean very thoroughljr a large pig's 
head, feet, and ears; lay them into «dt and 
water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. 
To make the collar larger, boil two ox heels, 
widi the head, feet, and ears, till all the 
bones can be taken out easily, then put the 
head round the mould, and thie feet and small 
pieces into the middle; put it together while 
hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it 
becomes cold. Boil for half an hour, in as 
much of the liouor as will cover the brawn, 
one handful of salt, one ounce of pepper, 
and one or two bay leaves. When cold, 
pour it over the brawn. 

BRAWN, MOCK. Take the blade bone 
out of the shohlder, and boil it gently two 
hoars or more, according to the age of the 
boar. When it is cold, season it very high- 
ly with pepper, Cayenne, salt, a very little 
allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it 
lie a night in this seasoning; the following 
day, mw(e a savoury forcemeat of pounded 
veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, 
and an onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nut- 
meg, pepper, and Cayenne; bind it with an 
egg beaten, and stun where the bone has 
been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with 
the brown side downwards, and lay under it 
twigs or amall sticks, to keep it from stick- 



ing to the bottom; pour in a bottle of hear* 
and put it into the oven. When nearly done, 
take it out and clear off all the &t, adif a 
bottle of Madeira and the juice of a hr^ 
lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it till 
it become as tender as a jelW, so that a 
straw will pierce it easily. It the boar is 
an old one, it will re(|uire to be baked six or 
seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. 

BRAWN, TO BAKE. Take raw lean 
brawn, and the same quantity of fet faaoon, 
mince them small, th«i pound them in a 
stone mortar, with a handful of sage, season- 
ed with sak, pepoer and ginger, add the 
yolks of ^[gs, ana some vineear, then put 
the brawn mto a cold paste, lay on butter 
and bay leaves, make your pie round and 
bake it. To be eaten cold. 



BREAKFAST CAKE. See Cake. 

BREAD. (1) Put a quartern of flour into a 
larsB basin, with two tea^spoonfols of sak; 
make a hole in the middle; then put in a 
basin four table-spoonfiils of good yeast ; stir 
in a pint of milk, hikewarm ; pot it in the 
hole of the flour; stir it just to make it into 
a thin batter; thien strew a little flour over 
the top; then put it on one side of the 
fire, and cover it over; let it stand till the . 
next morning; thai make it into dough; add 
half a pint more of warm milk; knmd it 
for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm 
place by the fire for one hour and a half: 
then knead it a^ain, and it is ready either 
for loaves or bricks: bake them from one 
hour and a Imlf to two hours according to 
the size. 

BREAD. (2) Mix into six pounds of sifted 
flour one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of 
fresh sweet yeast as it comes firom the brew- 
ery, and a sufficient quantity of wanned milk 
to make the whole into a stiff dough ; woik 
and knead it well upon a pasteboard, on 
which a little flour has been strewed, for fif- 
teen w twenty minutes, then put it into a 
deep pan, cover it with a warmed towel, set 
it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour 
and a half, or perhaps two hours; cut off a 
piece of this spon^ or dough ; knead it well 
for eight or tra minutes, together with flour 
merely sufiicient to keep it firom adheriiu; to 
the board; put it into small tins, filling them 
three-quarters full; dent the roUs all round 
with a knife, and let them stand a few nun* 
ntes before putting them into the oven. 
The remainder of the docuh must thm be 
worked up for loaves, and baked either in 
or out of a shape. 



BREAD, ALMOND. Takeapooado 
the best abnonds, slice theai the roiind wagra 



BRE 



IS 



BRE 



bnt and sift a poaid of dottbfeHnefiiied fogar, 
and strew it over the almonds as you cut 
%m, sdrring them finequently to preveot their 
itickiag together; wlien all the sugar is wed, 
pot them into an earthen basin, with a few 
carraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dis- 
solved in roee-water and strained), three 
nains of musk and ambovris dissohred in 
me sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten 
to a Tery light froth, and two spoonliils of 
fine flour; whoa well mixed lay them on 
wafers the size of macarcMMis; open them 
with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three 
|)ieces stick together; the quicker you lay 
them, the better they will look ; put them 
into a well-heated oven, taking care they do 
not scorch ; when lialf baked, take them out, 
wash them with the white of an egg beaten 
to a fix>th, grate a little fine sugai' over dion, 
and bake them about half an aour longer. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 
8te Pudding, 

BREAD, CHESTNUT. Roast a bun. 
dred fine chestnuts, being carefiil not to 
bum them ; peel tliein well, and pound them 
with butter and double cream; pass them 
through a sieve; add two eggs, and then 
strain, them again. Weigh your paste, and 
fcr every pound, allow half a pound of 
* powder, a little vanilla in powder, and two 
ounces of floui-; mix these together, and 
ferm of the preparation as many cliestnuts 
as it will noiake; lay them on a sheet of 
I wafer paper, butter and dorez them seve* 
ral times, and then bake them in a hot oveu. 

BREAD CHEESECAKES. Slice a 
hise French roll very thin, pour on it some 
boiling cream ; when cold, add six or eight 
^gs, half a pound of butter melted, some 
nutm^, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, 
and half a pound of currants. Put them in 
puff paste as other cheesecakes. 

BREAD, TO SERVE WITH COF- 
FEE. Whip up the wbit's of ten eggs to 
a thidL snow ; add to them tlie yolks beaten 
with eight ounces of powdei^sugar, place it 
over a charcoal fire, and whip it for half an 
hour, then take it from the fire, and whip 
again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of 
sifted flour. Have ready butteied two 
moulds lined with paper, pour the paste in- 
to them, and bake th^ in a moderate oven ; 
when done, take tliem out of tlie moulds and 
remove the papei'; when cold, cut them in 
■lices about the size of a finger. Place Uiem 
OD a plate of copper, over a charcoal tiie, 
and when Qne side is brown, tui'n them and 
brown the other side. These if kept dry 
will be good for a long tune. 
3 



BREAD CRUMBS, FRIED. Rid>biMd . 

that has been Imked two dayo, thi^nugh an 
iron sieve or cidle >der ; put tlieni into a slew, 
pan with two oun es of but'er ; pimv it over 
a moderate fire, and stir tliem with a woodeo 
spoon till of a tine g.ild color ; 8|>i'cad diem 
on a sieve, and let Uiein stand leit minutes 
to drain, turning them c^;en. 

BREAD, FRENCH. TakeJialf a bwhel 
(or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab» 
make a hole in die centre, in which put two 
ounces of yeast; luakeyourdougli with warm 
water, to about the consistence of brioche; 
work it up well, adding two muices of salt, 
dissolved in a little warm water; oover,and 
set it in a warm place to rise; on Uiis port 
of the operation d^iends die quality of the 
bread. Having leA tlie dcNigli une or two 
hours, (according to tiie season), knead it 
again, amd leave it as before, for two he ra. 
In die meanwhile, heat die oven, divide the 
dougli into eight ei|iBil parte, of which form 
as many kjaves, into any shape you please ; 
put them into die oven as quickly as possible. 
As soon as diey ai e done, rub Uie crusts with 
a little butter, whicii will give it a due yelk>w 
cokMT. 

BREAD, FRENCH, OR ROLLS. 

Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted 
flour, knead it into dougti, with two quarts 
of milk, three-quarters of a pound of warm , 
butter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces 
of salt ; when die whole is well worked up, 
cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours 
time, funn it into rolls, and lay diem on . 
tinned plates. Place diem in a slow oven. . 
When they have been in an hour, put them 
into a very hot oven for twenty minutef. 
Rasp them as soon as they are baked. 

BREAD FRITTERS. Boil half a pint 
of milk till reduced to lialf, with a httJe 
sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange-flower 
water, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; 
have ready some pieces of cruiub of bread, 
cut about the size of half-crowns, but tiiicker ; 
put them into die milk to soak a little, then 
drain, flour, and fly diem. Glaze diem with 
sugar, and pass die salamander over them. ' 

BREAD, LONDON. To make London 
bread, put a busliel of good flour which has 
been around a mondi or six weeks, in one 
end of the trough, and make a hole in the 
middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm 
water, and mix it witli one quart of good 
yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well 
with your hands ; let it remain until it rises 
as high as it will go, which will take about 
an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefully 
to its ultimate height, and do not sufTer it to 



BRE 



BRE 



lall; then make up the dough with eight 
quarts more of warm water and one pound 
of salt; work it well with your liandn, and 
tiben cover it over witli a sack or otlier coarse 
ck>th. Put die fire into the oven; heat it 
(horoughlv, and by tlie time it In hot, the 
dough will J)e ready. Next make die dough 
into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds 
eacli, sweep out the oven clean, and put io 
the loaves. Siuit the oven close, and they 
will be baked in about two hours and a half; 
Chen o{)en tlie oven, and draw tlie bread. In 
summer the water need not be more than 
blood warm, but in winter it must be a few 
di^rees higher in heat. During a liard 
Ihwt, however, the water should be as liot as 
Che hand could bear it, though not suflicientlv 
hot to scald die -yeast, as that would spoil 
Che whole batch of bread. Other quantities 
of bread are made in the same proportion. 

BREAD, PLAIN SHORT. The same 
proportions of flour and butter must be used* 
as in the receipt for short bread; this must 
be mixed to«[ether, rolled out, but not made 
quite so thick as in the rich kind ; but in the 
flame form, pricked with a fork, and pinch- 
ed all round. A little sugar may be added. 

BREAD, RICE. Take a poimd of rice, 
and let it simmer in two quarts of water till 
it is quite tender ; when it is of a proper 
warmtli mix it thoroughly with four pounds 
of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as 
ibr other bread ; the proper quantity of yeast 
Co be used, is about torn* spoonfuls ; knead it 
well; then set it to rise before the fii-e. A 
|x>rtion of the flour should be reserved to 
make up the loaves. If the rice should re- 
quire more water, it must be added, as some 
nee swells more tlian odier. 

BREAD, SPICED, COMMON. (1) 

Boil three pounds of honey in a gallon of 
water for a quarter of an hour ; then pour it 
on the flour in the trou^ ; mix them together 
well, until the flour will imbibe no mo'.e li- 
quid; when a little cooled, add three ounced 
of potash, infused the night before in half a 
pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting 
Co it some pounded anise. Roll out the 
paste, and with paste-cutters of various forms, 
cut it into little figures, lay them on a well- 
oiled tin, and bake diem ; when done, wasli 
Chem over with milk. With this paste 
■piced nuts are made ; when formed, lay them 
on tins, and leave in a warm place for two 
or three days before they are baked. 

BREAD, SPICED, (2) FLEMISH. 
The evening before you wish to make 
your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of 
white potadi in half a pint of milk, and set 
it anide. The next morning pot a consider* 



able quantity of sifled flora* into a troogfa, 
make a hole in the heap, into which poor six 
pounds of clai'ified honey ; whilst boiling, st^ 
It well with a strong spatula, until the iioQey, 
reduced to a firm paste, will imbibe no mora 
flour, then spread it all over the bottom of 
the trough, and leave it for about ten or fi^ 
teen minutes ; at the end of that time, if the 
paste be sufficiently cool for you to bear your 
hand on it, rub its sui-face with the infiisioii 
of potash ; then let a strong person knead it, 
in the same manner as the .bakers knead 
bread. Have ready a number of different- 
sized moulds of pesu- tree wood, on which 
are cut (pretty deep) octagons of varioua di- 
mensions ; then cut your paste into as many 
pieces as you have inouldtis, in the folbwing^ 
proportions: — ^for the mould containing a 
pound, take eighteen ounces of paste; ibr a 
half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of 
a pound seven ounces of paste, and so cm ; 
knead each piece separately on tlie slab, rub 
them widi flour to prevent dieir adhering, and 
then put them into the respective moulds; 
press it down tight; in a minute or two turn . 
them over, place them on a tin plate (pre- 
vioiisly rubbed with olive oil), and with a 
sofl Inrush take off wliat flour may remain 
on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake 
them in a moderate oven. Whilst tbey are 
baking, dissolve some isinglass inasuflScient 
quantity of beer, with which, by means of 
a "hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced 
bread as soon as it is done; and then, while 
it is moist and warm, decorate it with 
blanched almonds, candied lemon and orange J 
peel, cut into dice. You may, if you thiiw 
|Xt>per, cut these sort of sweet meats into 
very small pieces, and knead them into your 
paste at first. When Uiey are nearly coU, 
separate the pieces with a knife. 

BREAD, SHORT. For two poondsoT 
sifted flour allow one pound of butter, Ait or 
fresh ; a quarter of a pound of candied orange 
and lemon peel, of pounded loaf sugar, 
blanched sweet almonds, and carraway com- 
fits, a quarter of a pound each; cut the lem- 
on, the orange peel, and almonds into small 
thin bits, ana mix them with a pound and a 
half of the flour, a few of the caraway com- 
fits, and the sugar ; melt the butter, and wboi 
cool, pour it cfear from die sediment into the 
flour, at the same time mixing it quickly. 
With the hands, fonm it into a lai^ round 
of nearly an inch Uiick, using die remainder 
of the flour to make it up with ; cut it in- 
to four, and widi the fingnr and thumb pindi 
each bit neatly all round the edge ; piick them 
with a fork, and strew the lest of the carra- 
way comfits ovw die top. Put die pieces | 
upon white paper dustad with flour, and i 
then upon tins. Bake them in a iDoderatB 
oven. 



BRO 



21 



BRO 



BREAD, TIPSY. Pare off the cnist, 
and cut into thin round slioeB of four or five 
inches, the crumb of a twopenny or three- 
peimy roll ; spread over each bit raspberry 
or strawberry jam, and place tfie slices one 
over the other pretty high in a glass dish, 
and pnnr over them as much sherry, sweeten- 
* ^ ed with sugar, as the bread will soak in ; 
stick round the sides, tuid over tlie top, 
blanched sweet almonds, cut like straws, and 
pour a custard round it. It may be made 
the day belbre, or two or three hours before 
dinner, and widi the crumb of loaf bread. 

BREAD SAUCE. See SaueeM. 

BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix witli 
two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces 
of sUled wigar, four ounces of batter, and 
two e^s b^ten with two spoonfols of yeast, 
and about a pint of milk ; knead the dough 
well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set diem 
before the fire again to rise. When of a 
premier size, bake ihem for half an hour. 

BRIOCHE. Divide half a <]|uartem of 
Hoar into three parts, and knead mto one of 
them half an oimce of yeast and a little warm 
water, wrap it in a cloth a:>d set it by, in 
summer time for a quarter of an hour, and 
in winter for a whole hour. When it lias 
risen, put it to the remainder of the fiour, 
with a pound and a half of butter, ten eggs, 
half a glass (^ water, and nearly an ounce 
of salt ; knead them together with your hand 
thoroughly, and tlien wrap it in a clean nap- 
kin and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut 
the paste into the size you wish to make die 
cakes, moisten, and roll them in the hand, 
flatten the top, and gild them with the 
yolk <^ an egg[. Half an hour will be 
sufficient to ^ke the small ones; lai^ 
cakes will require an hour and a half. 

BROILING. See directions at begin- 
ning oi the book. 

BROCCOLI. Set a pan of clean cold 
water on the table, and a saucepan on die 
fire with plenty of water, and a handfol of 
salt in it. Broccoli is prqKured by stripping 
off all the side shoots, leaving die top ; peeV 
off the skin of the stalk with a knife ; cut it 
ckiee off at the bottom, and put it into the 
pan of cold water. Wlien the water in the 
Btewpan boils, and die broccoli is ready, 
pot jt in; let it boil briskly till the stalks 
feel tender, fi:t>m ten to twenty minutes ; take 
it up with a slice, that you may not break it; 
let it drain, and serve up. If some of the 
heads of broccoli are much bi^;er than the 
others, put them on to boil first, so that they 
may get ail done together. Ofrt. — ^It makes 



a nice mipper-dish served upon a iomt, lik« 
asparagus. It is a very delicate vegetable, 
and yoo must take it up die moment it m 
done, and send it to table hot. 

BROTH, BARLEY. Chop a leg oT 
beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of 
water, with a carrot and a crust of braadg 
till reduced to Iialf ; then strain if off mad 
put it into the pot again with half a poand 
of barley, four or five heads of oelei*y col 
small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onioQ, a 
little diopped parsley, and a few marigoldk 
Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock or 
large fowl and put it into die pot, boil tiQ 
the brodi is quite good. Season with salt, 
take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. 
The fowl may be omitted. 

BROTH, OF BEEF. Wash a leg or 
shin of beef very clean, crack the bone in 
two or three places, add to it any trim- 
mings you have of meat, game, or poultry 
(heads, necks, gizzards or feet) and cover 
tiiera with cold water. Watch and stir it 
up well from the bottom, and the moment it 
begins to simmo*, skim it carefiilly. Your 
iMToth must be perfectly clear and limpid — 
for on this depends the goodness of the 
soups, sauces, and gravies, of which it ie 
die busis. Then add some cold water to 
make the remaining scum rise, and skim 
it again. Wlien die scum has done rising, 
and the surface of die broth is quite clear, 
p>:t in one carrot, a liead of celery, two 
turnips, and two onions. It should not 
liave any taste of sweet lierbs, spice or gar- 
lic ; either of diese flavors may be aoded 
afterward, if desired. Cover it close, set it 
by die side of die fire, and 1^ it simmer 
very gently, ao as not to viraste the broth, 
for four or five hours or more, according to 
the wei^t of the meat. Strain it thrwigh 
a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, and 
set it in die coldest place you have. 

IC?^ This is die foundation of all sorts 
of soups and sauced, brown and white. 

BROTH, CHICKEN. Take die re- 
maining parts of a chicken « iix>m which 
panada has been made, all but the rump; 
skin, and put them into the virater it wa^ 
first boiled in, with die addition of a little 
mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and 
simmer it. When of a good flavor, put to 
it a quarter of an ounce of sweet ahnonds 
beaten with a spoonfid of water; boil it 
a little while, and when cold, take off die 
fat. 

BROTH, CHICKEN PECTORAL. 

Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and 
put it into a saucepan widi two pints and a 
half of water, two ounces of pearl barley. 



BRO 



28 



BRO 



) of rice, and two ounces of the best 
honey; boil all txigeUier, skimming well for 
three hourii, uutil it be reduced to two-thirds. 

BROTH, JELLY. Take a joint of raot- 
ton, a capuii, a fillet of veal, and three quarts 
of water ; put these into an eartlien pan, and 
boil them uvnr a gentk; Are till reduced to 
half; tlien sciueeze all together, and stram 
the liquor Uiruugh a napkin. 

BROTH, MUTTON. Take two poands 
of scnig of mutton; to take tlie blood out, 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold ^vater; when tlie water becomes milk- 
warm, pour it ofl'; then put it in four or five 
pints of^ water, widi a tea-eipoonful of salt, a 
table-spouiitlil of IjestgriUi, and an onion ; set 
it on a slow fire, and when you have taken 
all tlie scmn off, put in two or three tui'nips ; 
let it simmer very slowly for two houre, and 
•train it thrtmgii a cleaui sieve. 

BROTH, MIJITON, FORTHESICK. 
Have a |X)und and a half of a neck or loin 
of mutton ; take off llie skin and the fat, and 
put it yito a saucepan ; cover it witli cold 
water, (it will take aix>itt a quart to a pound 
of meat), let it sinitiier vei-y gently, and 
skim it well ; cover it up, and set it over a 
moderate fire, where it may stand genllv 
stewing for ulx>ut an hour; then strnln it off. 
It should be allowed to become cold, when 
all tliegreu!*y frarticlei* will float on the sur- 
&ce, and becoming hard, can be easily 
taken off, and the bettlings will remain at 
the bottom. N. B. — We direct the meat to 
be done no more than just «nfBciently to be 
estten ; so a sick man may have plenty of 
g(Mxl broth for notliing; as by tliis manner 
of proihx^'.ng it, die meat ftirnishes also a 
good family meal. This is an~ inuifensive 
nourishment for sick |)el'^«ons, and tlie only 
mutton broth that should be given to conva- 
lescentii, whose cunstitutions I'efiuiie replen- 
ishing with restorative aliment of easy di- 
gestions The common way of making it 
with roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c. &c. is 
too strong for weak Ftumaclis. Plain biY>th 
will agree with a delicate stomach, when 
the least addition of otiier ingredients woidd 
inunediately ofikud it. 

BROTH, MEAGRE, or Soup v?ith 
Herbs. Set on a kettle of wMcr, put in 
two or three crusts of bread, and all sorts of 
good herbs; season whh salt; put in butter, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it for an 
hour and a half: then strain it dirough a 
sieve, or napkin. This will serve to make 
lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup de acmte. 
Ice. with herbs. 

BROTH, MULLAGATAWNY, OR 



CURRY. Make about two qaartsot'fllraig' 

veal broth, seasoned with two onions, m 
bunch of parsley, salt and pepper ; strain it, 
and have read^ a cliicken, cut in joints and 
skinned ; put it into the broth, with a table- 
spoonful of curry-powder ; boil the chicken 
till quite tender, and a little before serving, 
add the juice of a lemon, and stir ui a tea- 
cupful of cream. Serve boiled rioe to eat 
with this broth. 

BROTH, RICE VEAL. Wash clean 
six pounds of a knuckle of veal, and cut it 
in two, put it in a saucepan with four quarts 
of boiling water, half a pound of rioe well 
waslied, a little maoe, white pepper, and 
salt, and a handful of chopped parsley ; let 
it boil for two hours. Serve part of tbe 
meat in the tureen with the broth. Tbe 
thick part of the knuckle may be sent up 
as a separate dish, with parsky and buttor 
poured over it. 

BROTH, WHITE. Boil a fowl, and 
when it is enough, take it up, and put it into 
a dish ; then boil your cream with a blade of 
mace, and thicken it with eggs ; then put io 
tlie marrow of one beef' bone, and take some 
of the broth, and mingle them tosether ; put to 
it a spoonful cf white wine, and let it thick- 
en on the lliv ; ;heu put die fowl hot out of 
die broUi, umi it on a chafmg-dish of coals, 
add serve it. ^ 

BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING. 

Put into a nicely tinned saucepan about a 
pound of fresh butter, melt it slowly, and 
dredge in flour till it bec(»mes like a paste, 
carenilly stirring it all the time, put it for 
a few minutes upon a quick fire, and then 
return it to where there is less heat, and 
stir it till it assumes a liglit thrown color, 
when it may be put into a jar. Tbesa 
thickenings keep for sometime. 

BROWNING, Is a convenient article 
to color those soups or fiances of which it is 
supposed Uieir deep brown complexion de- 
notes die stren-rth and savouriness of the 
composition. Burned sugar is also a ia« 
vorite uigredient \%iih the brewei-s, who uaa 
it under the name of " essentia bina" to col- 
or their beer : it is also employed by the bran- 
dy makers, in considerable quantity, to color 
brandy ; to which, besides enriching its com- 
plexion, it gives Uiat sweetish taste, and ful- 
ness in the mouth, which custom has taught 
brandy drinkers to admire, and prefer to 
die finest Cognac in its genuine state. Whea 
employed for culinary purposes, diis is some- 
times made with strong gravy, or wabiot 
catchup. Those who like a gout of acid 
may add a little walnut pickle. Put lialT 
a pound of pouuded lump sugar, and a tabla* 



BUNS 



29 



BUNS 



ipoonfid of water, into a clean iron sauce- 
pan, set it over a slow fire, and keep stir- 
ring it with a wooden spoon till it becomes 
a bngfat brown cok»-, and be? ins to smoke ; 
tiieo add to it an ounce of sak, and dilute it 
hf degiiees with water, till it is the tbick- 
. DesB ^ aoy; let it boil, take off the scum, 
I aad strain the liquor into bottles, which 
iDost be well stopped: if you have not any 
of tlii| by you, and you wish to darken the 
color of your sauces, pound a tea-spoonfiil 
of hmp sugar, and put it into an iron spoon, 
with as much water as will dissolve it; 
hold k over a quick fire till it becomes of a 
wry dark brown color; mix it with the 
snq), &c. while it is hot. 

BRUNSWICK TART. See Tart 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS TO BOIL. 

Trim and wash them perfectly clean, and 
let them lie an hour in cold water. Put 
them on in boiling water, with a little salt, 
aod boil them till tender. Di-ain off tlie 
vater, and serve them hot. 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Chop small 
»me boiled white cabbage ; season it with 
pepper and salt, and fiy it with a little butter ; 
pepfw and broil some slices of cold boiled 
nltedbeef; put the Cried cabbage into a dish, 
and lay round it the slices of broiled beef, 
andserve it very hot. The beef does best 
*hen underdone. 

BUNS, BATH. Rub togetlier, with 
*e hand, one pound of fine flour and a lialf 
a pound of butter ; beat six eggs, and add 
wan to the flour with a table spooiifiii of good 
yrast. Mix diem all together with half a tea- 
"•pfiJI ofmilk; set it in a warm place for 
anhour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, 
"w a few caraway seeds. Mould them in- 
to buns with a table spoon on a baking plate ; 
™jw six or eig^t caraway comfits on each, 
a»d bake them in a hot oven about ten min- 
°^< These quantities should make eiglit- 
ttD bans. 

BUNS, COMMON. Rob four ounces of 
^ter into two pounds of flour, four ounces 
w wgar, a few Jamaica peppers, and a few 
<*fa^y seeds. Put a spoonfiil or two of 
°*jm into a cup of yeast, and as much good 
muk as will make the above into a light 
P«e; «et it by the fire to rise. They will 
"*e quickly on tins; you may add nutmeg. 

^^S, CROSS. To the above raix- 
^ pot one ounce and a half of ground all- 
jPj*> cinnamon and mace, mixed, and when 
Wf proved, press the form of a cross with 
I tuD mould in the centre, and finteh as 



BUNS, PLUM. To two noundi oTthi 
plain ban paste, put half a oouna of curranl^ 
a quaiter of a pound of candied orange- 
peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg 
gi-ated, half an ounce of mixed spKe, aocS 
as allHpioe, cinnamon, &c. Mould them in- 
to buns, jag them round the edges with a 
knife, and proceed as above. 

BUNS, PLAIN. To four I 
ed flour put one poimd of i 
make a cavity in the centre, and stir in m 
gill of good yeast, a pint of hikewarm milk, 
with enough of the flour to make itthe thick- 
ness of cream ; cover it over, and let it lie 
two hours; then melt to an oil (but not hot) 
one pound of butter, stir it into the other io- 
^reclients, with enough warm milk to make 
It a soft paste ; throw a littte flour over, and 
let them lie an hour; have ready a baklnff- 
platter nilibed over with butter; mould wiHi 
die hand the dough into buns, alxMit the 
size of a lar^ egg; lay them in rows full 
three inches apart ; set them in a warm place 
for half an hour, or till they have risen to 
double their size ; bake them in a hot oven 
of a good color, and wash them over with 
a brush dipped into milk when drawn fitx)i« 
the oven. 

BUNS, RICHER. Put ibiir pounds of 
fine flour into a wooden bowl ; set a sponge 
of it with a sill of yeast and a pint of 
warm milk ; then mix with it one pound of 
sifted sugar, one pound of oiled fivsh butter, 
coriander seeds, cmnamon, and mace, a small 
quantity of each, pounded fine. Roll the 
paste into buns, set them on a baking-plate 
rubl^ed with butter, put them in a nuMlerate 
oven to prove ; then wash them with a paste- 
brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a 
good color. 

BUNS, SCOTS CHRISTMAS. Take 
four pounds of raisins stoned, two and a half 
of currants well cleaned and dried, half a 
pound of almonds blanched, of candied oranse 
and lemon-peel a quarter of a pound each, 
cut small ; of pounded cloves, pepper, ana 
ginger, half an ounce eacli, four pounds of 
flour, and twenty-two ounces of butter. 
Then rub the butter widi the flour, till well 
mixed together; add a little warm water, 
and a quguter of a pint of fi-esli good yeast, 
and work it into a light smoodi paste ; cut 
off nearly one-third of the paste, to form the 
eheet or case, and lay it aside ; with the rest 
work up the fiiiit, sweetmeats, and spices; 
make it into a rotmd form like a thick cheese. 
Roll out the slieet of paste, lay the bun in the 
centre, and gather it all round, closing it at 
the bottom, by wetting tiie ed^es of the paste, 
and cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Tund 
it up, and run a wire or small skewer through 



k. 



BUT 



30 



BUT 



jprom the top to the bottom every liei>e and 
there, and prick tlie top with a fork. Dou- 
ble and flour a sheet of gray paper, and lay 
the bun upon it ; bind a piece round the 
sides, also doubled and floiu-ed, to keep the 
bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a mod- 
erate oven. 

BUNS, SEED. Take two pounds of 
plain buo dough, and mix in one ounce of 
caraway seeds, butter the insidea of tart- 
paus, mould the dough into buns, and put 
one into each pan; set diem to rise in a 
Warm place, and when suthciently proved, 
ioB them widi die white of an egg beat to a 
fiioth, lay some pounded sugar over that, and 
dissolve it with water splashed from die 
icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. 

BURDWAN STEW. Cut into joints a 
oold fowl or duck, put it into a stewpan, 
widi lialf a pint of gravy, a large wine-glass 
of ale, half a one of white wine, tlie juice 
of half a lemon, a tea-spoonful of soy and 
Gayenne ; of musliroom catsup, lemon pickle, 
cucumber vinegar, corach escavecke, a des- 
sert-spoonful each, ileat all thoroughly be- 
ibre serving. ^ 

BUTTER BURNT. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a small frying-pnn ; wlien it 
becomes a dark brown color, add to ^t a 
tablenspoonful ai^d a half of good vinegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. 06f. — This is 
used as sauce for boiled fisli oir poaclisd 



BURNET VINEGAR. See Vinegar. 

BUTTER BISCUITS. See BucuUs. 

BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes. 

BUTTER, CLARIFIED, Put the butter 
in a nice, clean stewpan, over a very clear, 
slow fire; watch it, and wlien it is melted, 
carefully skim off the buttermilk, &c which 
will swim on the top ; let it stand a minute 
or two for die impurities to sink to die bot- 
tom; then pour the cleai* butter through a 
sieve into a clean basin, leaving the sediment 
at the bottom of the stewpan. Obs. — ^But- 
ter thus purified will be as sweet as marrow, 
a very useful covering for otted meats, &c. 
and for frying fish equal to the finest Florence 
oil; for which purpose it is commonly used 
by Catholics, and those whose religious ten- 
ets will not allow them to eat viands fried in 
ftnimal oil. 

BUTTER, FRENCH MELTED. Mix, 
In SL stew})an, with a quarter of a pound of 
^fesh butter, a table-spoonfiil of flour, a little 
gahf half a gill of water, half a spoonful of 



white vinesar, and a little grated _ 

Put it on die fire, stir it, and let it thickj^ 
but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste 
of die fiour. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (1) Dust a little 
flour over a quarter of a pound of butter, put 
it into a saucepan, with about a wine-^Iasa 
of water ; stir it one way constantly till it be 
melted, and let it just boil: a round woodoi 
sticky is die best diing to stir butter with in 
melting. If the butter is to be melted w^ith 
cream, use the same propoitioo as of -water , 
but no flom* ; stir it constantly, and beat it 
thoroB^^ fa^b pt do not let it boil. To oil 
hutterflltlmffbout a quarter of a pound into 
slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in 
a pan of boiling water. When oiled, pour 
it ofi* clear from the sediment. 

BUTTER, MELTED, (2) Is so simpfe 

and easy to prepare, that it is a matter of 
general surprise, that what is done so ofteoy 
is so seldom done right. It is spoiled nine 
tiAies out of ten, more fi^m idleness than from 
ignorance, and rather because the cook won't 
Uian because she can't do it; which can on- 
ly be die case when housekeepers will not 
allow butter to do it with. Good melted 
butter cannot be iQ»de with mere flour and 
water ; diere must be a fiill and proper pro- 
portion of butter. As it must be alwa^'s on 
the table, and is die foundation of aIin«j(Bt all 
our sauces, we have. 

Melted butter and oystm-s, 

parsley, 

anchovies. 



shrimps, 

lobsters, 

capers, &c. &c &c. 

I have tried every way of making it ; and I 
trust, diat I have written a receipt, (3) 
whitch, if die cook will carefully observe, 
she will constantly succeed in giving satis- 
faction. In the quantities of the vai'ious 
sauces I have ordered, I have had in view 
the providing for a family of half a dozen 
moderate people. Never pour sauce ovca: ilieat 
or even put it into die dish; howev^* well 
made, some of the company may have an 
antipathy to it; tastes are as difierent as 
&ces: moreover, if it is sent up separate in a 
boat, it will keep hot longer, and what is left 
may be put by for another time, or used for 
another purpose. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (3) Keep a pint 
stewpan; for this purpose only. Cuttw* 
ounces of butter into little bits, that it may 
melt more easily, and mix more readily; pi^ 
it into the stewpan with a large tea-«pooD- 
ful (t. e. about three drachms) of flour, 
(some prefer arrow-root, or potato starch) 



CAB 



SI 



CAKfi 



ind two tabb-gpoon fob d milk. When 
tiunnghly mixed, add six tabie^poonfub 
flf water; hold it over the fire* and shake it 
raiad eveiy minute (all the while the same 
way), till It just bevine to simmer; then let 
it Btaod quietly and boil up. It should be of 
the thickneas of good cream. N. B.— Two 
nUMpoonfiils of mushroom catchup, instoul 
of the nii&, will make as good mushroom 
moeas neeid be, and is a auperbtive accbin- 
puiieQt to either fish, flesh, or Ibwl. 
Ob.— This is the best way of preparing; 
mehed butter; milk mixes with the butter 
mocfa more easily and more intimately tluun 
water alone can be made to do. This is 
of proper thidcnesB to be mixed at table 
with flavouring esseDoes, anchovy, mush- 
room, or cavice, &c. If made merdy to 
poor over vegetablee, add a Kttle more milk 
ID k. N. B. — ^If the butter oils, pot a 
ipoonfiil of cokl water to it, and stir it with 
a Bgooa; if it is very much oiled, it must 
be poured backwards and forwards from 
Ihe rtewnm to the saucdxiat till it is right 
a^. Mem. — ^Melted butter made to be 
nixed with flavouring essences, catchups, 
kc should be of the thickness of light bat- 
ter, that it may adhere to the fish, £c. 

BUTTER, OILEIIV Put two ounces of 
fredi butter into a saucepan; set it at a dis- 
tance from the fire, so that it may melt grad- 
Bally, tin it oomee to an oil ; and pour it off 
quietly firnn the dr^. 06».-— This will 
npply the place of olive oil ; and Inr some is 
inferred to it either liir salads or frying. 

BUTTER SAUCE. See Sauce, 



C. 

CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP. 
SuSoup, 

CABBAGE, TO STEW. Washacab- 
l^ige well, slice it as for pickling, and out it 
into a stewpan, witli half a tea-cupful of 
Port wioe, and a bit of butter knestded in 
^^i a little salt and peppery stir it till the 
^*^ is melted ; cover the pan, and let it stew 
' Uttfe, but not to become too soft; as it eats 
better radior crisp; add a table-spoonful of 
▼in^ar, give it one boil, and 8ei*ve it hot. 
"iVfi wioe may be omitiedx 

CABBAGE, TO PICKLE. Choose two 
niddiing-sised, welk»lored, and firm red 
cabbages, shred them very finely, first pulling 
off the outside leaves; ran witn them nearly 
balf a pound of sah, tie it up in a thin cloth, 
*ndlet'it hang fiv twelve hours; dien put it 
into small jan, and pour over it cold vinegar 



that has been boiled with a few faarbenriei iq 
it ; tie the jar over closely with bUdtler ; or 
boil, in a quart of viiiqjar, three bits of gin- 
ger, half an ounce of pepper, and a quaiter of 
an ounce of cloves. When ookJ, pour it over 
the red cabbage* 

CAKES. Prkparatobt remarks. 
The currants and raisins should be prepared 
as directed under the article headed. Pud- 
dings and Pies, and the flour dried before 
the fire on a huqgie sheet of white paper, then 
sified and weigliftd. Almonds shouki be 
blanched by pour ite hot water over them, 
and, after standing Jb|eminutes, taking off 
the skin* then throiiy them into rose or 
cold water. When not pounded, they sIkniU 
be cut lengthwise into "lliiin bits. Sugar 
should be roughly poundetL rolled with a 
bottle upon white pap«*, and fl^ silted. All 
spices, after being well dried at tlie fire, shouU 
be finely poundal and sifted. Lemon and 
orange-peel oonst be pared very thin, and 
pounded with a little sugar. The hutler, 
after being weighed, should be laid into cold 
water, or washed in rose water, and if salt, 
be well waslied in several waters. The 
yolks and whites of eggs should be separately 
and long beaten, then strained ; two whisks 
sliould he kept exclusively for that pur* 
pose, as the whites especially require to be 
managed witii the greatest care. A horn 
spoon should be used for mixing those cakes 
which are not directed to be b^ten with the 
liand. To make cakes light, salvolatile, or 
smelling salts, may be added imuiediately 
before putting them into the oven, allowing, 
to a qwnge csdie, made of one pound of flour, 
one tea-«poonful ; and two or three to a large 
plum cake. Cheese cakes, queen cakes, 
sponge biscuits, and small sponge cakes, re- 
quire a quick oven till they liave risen ; after- 
wards the heat shouki be more moderate. 
Plum, seed cakes, and all hirge kinds, must be 
well soaked, and therefore do not require a 
brisk oven. To pi'eserve their cok>r, a sheet of 
white paper is put over them, and after they 
have risen and become firm, they are tunned 
round. To ascertain if a lai*ge cake be 
sufficiently done, a broad bladed knife is 
plunged into tlie centre of it, and if dry and 
clean when drawn out, tiie cake is baked ; 
but if anything adlieres to the blade, it must 
instantly be returned to the pyen, and the 
door closed. When the oven b too hot, it 
is better to lessen tlie fire tlian to open the 
door. 

CAKE. Take two pounds and a half of 
dried and sifted flour, the same <^ well clean- 
ed and dried currants, two pounds of fresh 
butter, |wo of finely-pounded and sifted loaf 
sugar, a nutmeg grated, a tea-epoonful of 
pounded ciimamon, <me ounce of citron and 



^. 



CAKE 



32 



CAKE 



eandied orange-peel, cut small, the yolks of 
•ixteen, and the whites of ten eggs, beaten 
separately; tlien with the hand beat the 
buttei' to a cream, and add the sugar, tlien 
the eggs by degrees, and the flour in the 
same way, and then the currants, sweetmeats, 
and spice, one glass of orange-flower water, 
and one of bi^mdy. Butter a tin pan, line it 
witfi white paper buttered, put in the cake, 
and bake it in a moderate oven four hours. 

CAKE, ALMOND. Blanch half a pound 
of sweet, and three ounces of bitter almonds ; 
pound them to a paste in a mortar with 
orange-flower water |i add half a pound of 
■ifled loaf sugai', and a'little biTindy; whisk 
separately, for half an houi", the whites and 
yolks of twenty eggs, add the yolks to tlie 
almonds and sugar, and tlien stir ni the whites, 
and beat tliem all well together. Butter a 
tin pan, sift bread raspings over it, put the 
cake into it, over the top of which strew sifted 
loaf sugar. Bake it in a quick oven for 
half or diree-quarters of an hour. 

CAKES, ALMOND SMALL. One 
pound of butter beaten to a cream, half a 
pound of finely-pounded and sifled loaf sugar, 
tialf a pound of dried and sifled flour, and 
the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds 
cut into thin small bits, one well-beaten jgg, 
and a little rose water, must be mixed well 
together, and with a spoon dropped upon 
wafer paper or tins, and then baked. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (1) Take eight 
ounces of Jordan and one ounc^ of bitter al- 
monds, blanch and pound them very fine; 
then beat in with the almonds the yolks of 
eisht eggs, and whisk up tlie whites to a 
solid frotli. Then take eight table-spoonfuls 
of sifled sugar, five spoonfuls of fine flour, a 
small quantity of grated lemon-peel and 
pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingre- 
dients. Rub the inside of a mould with 
fresh butter, fill it with the mixture and bake 
it of a light color. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (2) Put a gill of 
flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole 
in the middle to receive a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a 
pound of fine siigar, and six ounces of sweet 
almonds pounded very fine: knead the whole, 
and form it into a cake ; bake, and glaze it 
with sugar and a hot salamander. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (3) Weigh diree 
eggs in their shells, take the same weight of 
flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated 
k)af sugar. Pound with diese ingredients 
three ounces of sweet ahnonds blanched ; add 
a little grated lemon-peel, or orange-flower 
water, and the whites and yolks of thret 



eggs. Continue pounding till the "wMb 
forms a smootli paste. Butter the bottom 
of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with 
fire above and below. This cake may be 
served eitlier hot or cold, with grated sugar 
over it. 

CAKES, ANISEED. Put in an earthen 
pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and 
the yolks often e^s ; stir them togetner with 
a wooden spoon for lialf an hour. Itt the 
meantime have the whites of your e^^ 
whipped tor a thick snow, and then pour in 
the sugar and yolks. Wlien tiiuroughly 
mixed, add an oun<» of good aniseed, jn^e- 
viously washed and dried, and ten ounces of 
flour; stir the whole gently, and then with a 
spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about 
the size of a crown-piece ; sprinkle d«em with 
fine sugar, and bake. Remove tliem from 
tlie paper, while hot, with a knife. 

CAKE, APPLE. Pare and core a d • 
en apples, and make them into marmalade, 
with the zeste of a lemon and a little ciima- 
mon, and pass them through a bolting; put 
thetn into a stewpan, with a spo<Hifiil of 
potato flour, half a pound of sugar, and two 
oijnces of butter ; di-y it over the fire, and 
wlien cold add to it six eg^, stir them weU 
in, and having Irattered ^a mould, pour your 
preparation into it, and bake it in a slow 
oven; when done, tuiii it in a dish and 



CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat 

to a cream a quarter of a pound of fresli butter, 
and mix with it tlie same quantity of pound- 
ed and sifted loaf sugar, and four well-beat^ 
eggs; add flour till diick enough to roll out; 
cut the paste into oblong pieces about (bur 
or five inches in length ; with a paste cutter, 
divide the centre into three or four strips; 
wet the edges, and plait one bai' over the 
other, so as to meet in the centre ; dirow 
them into boiling lard, or clarified suet; 
when fried of a light* brown, drain tliem 
before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, 
witii or witiiout grated loaf sugar strewed 
over them. 

CAKE, BANBURY. Set a sponge with 
two table-spoonfuls of Uiick yeast, a gill of 
waim milk, and a pound of flour ; when it 
has worked a little, mix with it half a pound 
of currants, wasliedand picked, lialf a 
pound of candied oi-arige and lemon peel cut 
small, one ounce of spice, such as ground 
cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and grated not* 
meg: mix the whole together with half a 
pound of honey ; roll out pufi^ paste a quartet 
of an incii diick, cut it into rounds with a 
cutter, about four inches over, lay on eadi 
with a spoon a small quantity of the mixture ; 






CAKS 



as 



CJLKX 



dowJtroand with the fingcn in the fiMm 
oCaa oTal ; place the Join imdemeadi ; pran 
it fiat with the hand; sift sugar over it» and 
bake them aa a plate a quarter of an hoar. 

CAKES, BATH BB£AXFAST. Bob 
into two powMb of flour half a pound of but- 
ter, and mix with it one pint o2f milk a little 
wanned, aqoarter of a pint of fresh yeast, 
four well-beaten eggs, and a tea-spoonful of 
salt; cower it, and let it stand before the fire 
to rise for three-c|iiartera of an hour ; make 
it into thiek cakes about the size of the 
inside of a dinn«' plale ; bake them in a 
qaick oven, then cot tbaat into three, that 
^ middle slice, as also the top and bottom 
nay be well buttered. Serve them very hot. 

CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To three 
tds of dried flour allow one pound of 
I butter, one pound of good brown sugar, 
two oonoes of caraway seeds, eight well- 
beaten eggs, three tal)3e"8poonfo]s of iiieab 
yeast, and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the 
hotter in a pint of milk, so as to make the 
whole into a dough, not very stiff; work it 
weB; cover it with a cbth, and set it before 
tlK fire to rise; when well risen, bake it in 
a battered tin. When it becomes dry, it 
may be toasted and eaten with butter. 

CAKES, BONNET. Boil in half a 
pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- 
namon, and of lemon-peel ; strain, and mix it 
I with three table-spoonfiils of flour, and stir 
it over the fire for two or thi'ee minutes ; add 
a bit of butter the size of a walnut; when 
cold, mix m tlie beaten yolks of two eggs, a 
little salt and pepper ; heat it well, drop a 
dessert-epoonfiil of the mixture into boiling 
hrd, then drain them upon the back of a 
sieve, and when served, throw over pounded 
loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper, a 
little preserve may be drooped upon each, 
before the sugar is thrown over. 

CAKE, BAB A. Take the fourth part of 
two pounds of flour, lay it on your paste- 
boan) or slab, and having made a hole in 
the middle of it, put in half an ounce of 
jtast, work it up with one band, whilst widi 
the f^h&c you pour in warm water; make it 
into a i-atlier soft paste, pat into a wooden 
bowl, first pricking it in a few pkoes, cover 
<t with a cloth and let it stand. Wlien it 
has risen well, take .the lemainder of the 
fioor, and spread it on the first made paste; 
mix them well together, adding to them 
half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of 
fifegh batter, half a pound of stoned raisins, 
two ounces of currants, half a glass of Mal- 
aga wine, and a Uttle saffron in powder. 
Work them up together thoroughly, roll it 
OQt two or tbi^ times, and then let it stand 



for six horn; than hsriog bettered ■morij^ 
pour in yoor pre p aratmn and bake it. 

CAKE, BOLAR. One pocad of flov 
dried in a sfow oven, two spoonfiils of yeiist, 
some almond milk, and water to mix for a 
qx>nge; when raised, beat up three^iuarten 
of a pound of clarified butter, three e 
three-qnarterB of a poandof sugar, ^ 
en till the spoon 
addcinn 
lemon. Bake i 
tered; keep it before the fire till put in Iha 



on comes clean away; ihiB 
powder, candied orange and 
in eartlien basins, w^l bM- 



CAKE, BOLAR. When the sponge it 
beat, as for the hut, instead of m»ing the 
sugar, it is rolled in thesugar aDdcinnamoa 

CAKE, DUTCH BOLAR. Done, as 
above, without sugar ; then prick liok» with 
a sharp pointed knife, and while it is lu>t 
pour in three-quarters of a pound of cbir'rfied 
sugar, flavored with cinnamon or oratige- 
flower. Ahnonds and sweetmeals are pra- 
viouriy put in the cake. Ornament yoar 
cake with harle(|uin sugar-plums. This was 
a fovorite cake of Queen Charbtte. 

CAKE, BREAD. Take the quantity 
of a quartern loaf fiom the dougli when mak- 
ing white bread, and knead well into it two 
ounces of battel*, two of Lisbon sugar, and 
eight of onrrants. Warm the butler in a 
tea-cupfiil of good milk. By the addition 
of an ounce of batter, or sugar, or an egg or 
two, you may make the cake better. A 
tea-cupfiil of raw creain improves it mirh^ 
It is best to bake it in a pan, ratlier Uian as 
a loaf, the outside being kbb hard. 

CAKE, BRIDE. Take four pounds of 
fine flour vrdl dried, four poun^ of fresh 
batter, two pounds of luaf sugar, pounded 
and sified foie, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, and the same quantity o( nutmegs ; 
to every pound of flour put eight ^gs ; wash 
and pick four pounds of currants, and drv 
them before the fire; blanch a pound m 
sweet almonds, and cut them lengtliways, 
very tliin, a pound of citron, a poumi of 
candied oran^, a pound of candied lemon, 
and half a pmt of brandy; first work die 
batter with your hand to a cream, tlien 
beat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; 
beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong 
frt^ ; mix them with your sugar and but- 
ter ; beat the yolks half an houi*, at least, 
and mix tliem with your cake ; then |Hit in 
your flour, mace, and mitm^; keep beating 
It till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, 
and beat the currants and almonds lightly 
in ; tie three sheets of paper round the Ijot* 
torn of your hoops to keep it fiom running 



CAKE 



34 



CAKE 



Mt; nib it weU with butter, put in your 
cake, and die sweetmeats in three lays, with 
cake between ever^ lapr; after it is risen 
wmI colored, cover it with paper before your 
oven is stopped up; it will take three hours 
baking. 

CAKE, BRIE. Take soroe rich eheese, 
knead it with a pint and half of dour, three 
quarters of a pound of butter, and a little 
nit; moisten it with five or six eggx beaten 
up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand 
for an hour; then form your cake and bake 



CAKES, BENTON-TEA. Rub into 
a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and 
three spoonfuls of ]^east, and make into a 
paste with new milk; make into biscuits, 
and prick th«n with a dean fork. 

CAKES, BUTTER. Beat a dish of 
butter with your hands to a cresun, add two 
pounds of si&ed suear, three pounds of dried 
flour, and twenty-four eggs, leave out half 
the whites, and then beat all together for an 
hour; when you are going to put it in tlie 
oven add a quarter of an ounce of maoe and 
a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds 
and currants, if you think proper. 

CAKE, WITHOUT BUTTER. Take 
the weight of three eggs in sugar, and tlie 
weight of two in flour ; when the five egga are 
well beaten, gradually add the sugar, and 
Iheo the flour^ with a little grated lemon- 
peel, or a few caraway seeds. Bake it in 
a tin mould, in ratiier a quick oven. 

CAKES, CHESHIRE. Beat for half 
an hour the yolks of eight, and the whites 
of five eges; add half a pound of pounded 
and sift^ loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of dried and siftixl flour, and the grated 
peel of a small lemon ; beait all well tc^th- 
er, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (1) Three 
quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter well nibbed into it, a quarter of a 
pound of sifted loaf sugar, and some caraway 
seeds; make tliese into a stiff' paste with a 
little cold water, roll it out two or three 
times, cut it into round cakes, prick them, 
and bake them upon floured tins. For a 
change, currants may be substituted for the 
caraway seeds. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (2) Mix half 
a pound of sifted loaf sugar with a pound 
of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, 
add some caraway seeds; make it into a 
stiff' paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and 
» litue rose water; roll it out thin, cut it 



into round cakes, prick 
and bake them upon floured 
oven. 



tfacm wtAaMj 
red tins in a qmcfcl 



CAKES, CURD CHEESE. BoU, m \ 
two quarts of cream, the weH-beaten yolkf J 
of four, and the whites of five eggs; dam | 
off" the whey gently, and mix with the cord 
grated nutmeg, pounded ciimainon, tbras 
tabkHqfxwnfiils of best rose water, as mock 
white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf ■§• 
gar, the same quantity of butter beaten to a 
cream, and of poun^wd biscuit. Mix aU 
these ingredients well together, and stir n 
a quarter of a pound of currants. Bake it 
in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined widi 
paste; or it may be baked m a dish previ- 
ously buttered. 

CAKES, CURRANT. <1) Take 
two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a 
half of butt«:, the yolks of five or six eat, 
one pound and a half of sugar, six spooiuai 
of white wine, three spoonfiils of carawagr 
seeds, two nutmegs, and one pound of cor* 
rants; beat up the butter with your hand 
till it is very thin; dry the flour well ; put n 
the caraway seeds, and nutmegB, finely ^- 
ed; afterwards put them all into your bat- 
ter, witli the e§^, white wine, and roM 
water; mingle them well together; put ia 
tlie currants ; let your oven og pretty hot, 
and as soon as they are ookwed they will ba 
sufficiently done. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (2) Take half a 
pound of cleaned and dried currants, tba 
same quantity of dried and sifted flour, a 
quartei' of a pound of pounded sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of fireah butter, (oar 
yolks, and tlunse whites of eggs, both weS 
beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or poood- 
ed cinnamon; tlien beat the butter to a 
cream ; add the sugar, and then the c^ 
and the flour; beat these well for twen^ 
minutes, mix in the currants and the grated 
nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round fona 
upon buttered pappx, or bake them in onali 
tins in a quick ovoi. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (8) Take sb 
ounces of cun-ants, the same quantity n 
pounded loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, 
half a pound of butter, and threeKiuarten 
of a pound of dried and sifted floor; rah the 
butter with the flour till they be well mixed, 
then add the other ingredimls, and biad 
them with three beaten yelks of eggs, aad 
two or three spoonfuls of rose or orange- 
flower water; roll it out, and cut it into 
round cakes with the top crif a wine glaw or 
a tin. 

CAKE, COMMON. (I) Take two 



CAKE 



35 



CAKC 



prteof tioiir, mix with it tbree-qaartera 
or a poand of butter, a tea-oapTiil of fineali 
jtaA, one pint of iniUt, nine well-beaten 
eg^ two pounds of weU-cleaned cumintfi, 
«oe pound and a half of good brown sugar, 
tbegiTited peel of a lemon, and one nutmeg; 
afon of brandy must be stirred in jiut tw> 
fcre it be put into a battered tin. Bake it 
far two houra or more. 

CAKE, COMMON. (2) Rub into one 
pamd of floor a quarter of a pound of 
good batter; mix, with two well-beaten 
engs, and a table-epoonful of fresh yeast, as 
mch warm milk as will make the flour into 
aieiythick batter. Let this remain near 
the iRie, covered with a cloth for an hour, 
(hen mix into it six ounces of good brown 
aop-, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and 
dried corranu; let it stand again for half 
aa hour, and bake it in a buttered tin fbr 
aalnar. 

CAKE, COMMON. (3) One pound and 
* half of flour, one pound of good brown su- 
gar, eight well-beaten ^gs, and one ounce 
of caraway seeds, are to be mixed together; 
theo add of fresh yeast, milk, and of water, 
one table-epoonful each. Let it stand a lit- 
tktiffle, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, COLD HARBOR. Dissolve 
one oaooe of bittter in as much milk warmed 
as will make four pounds of flour into a stiff 
paale; about two pints may be required; 
add half a tea-spooniiil of salt, one egg 
hntea together with a table-spoonfiil of 
yort; mix it all well, cover it with a 
cuth, and let it i^emain before the fire for 
half an hour; then make it into small 
nwnd balls, and bake them upon tins in a 
flick oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (1) Put a pound of 
«w apon a pie-board ; make a hole in the 
middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, 
>nd a little salt; mix the paste lishtly, let 
It atand for half an hour, then add half a 
pwnd of butter; roll it out, five times, the 
^ as puff paste, and form it into small 
«keB; gild them with the yolk of egg, and 
hue in an oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (2) Sift some 
^'"''^ieHPefined sugar; beat the whites of 
"^^M or eight eggs ; shake in as many 
S^onfob of the sugar; grate in the rind of 
*Brge lemon; drop the firoth on a paper, 
'^ on tin, in himps at a distance ; sift a 
pwd deal of sugar over them ; set them in a 
JJjderate oven; the froth will rise; just 
*lor them; you may put raspberry jam, 
^ stick two bottoms together; put them 
«* cool oven to dry. 



CAKES, CREAM. (S) Pm faiio a 

stewpan, two gbsses of cream, a quarter of 
a pound of butter, the rind of a lemoo, cot 
small, a quarter of a pooid of powder^sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Set it on the fire, and 
when it begins to boil, put it by the side of 
the stove ; take out the lemon-peel, and add, 
by degrees, as much flour as tlie liquid will 
bear; ke(» stirrinjj it constantly, and place 
it on the ore again, for fi\'e minutes, then 
pour it into a basin ; add to it, one by one* 
as many eggs as will make the paste stick 
to the fingera ; put the paste on a slab, and 
make your cakes of a round form. 

CAKES, CANAPES. RoN out three- 
quarters of a pound of puff paste, keeping it 
long and narrow; do not let it be more inao 
a quarter of an inch thick, and about three 
inches wide. Oit the pesle across with a 
sharp knife, in slips three-eights of an inch 
in width, and plaoe them on the cut side, da 
a baking-plate, each two inches apart; bake 
them in a hot oven, and when nicely colored, 
sprinkle them with sugar, and glase them. 
When done, remove diem from the plate; 
and just before they are served, mask them 
with apricot marmalade, or any other yoa 
may like better, and arrange tbem on your 
dish eneourotme, 

CAKES, CURD. Take a quart of 
curds, eight eggs, leaving out four whites ; 
put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little 
flour ; mix theas well ttigetoer, heat batter, 
in a frying-pan, drop tiiem in, and fry like 
frittere. 

CAKES, DERBY OR SHORT. Rub 
in with the hand one pound of butter inta 
two pounds of sifted flour; put one pound 
of currants, <Hie pound of good moist sugar, 
and one e^; mix all together with half 
a pint of miK: roll it out thin, and cut thero 
into round cakes with a cutter ; lay them oa 
a clean baking-plate, and put tliem into a 
middling-heated oven for about five o ' 



CAKE, DIET BREAD. Boil, in half 
a pint of water, one pound and a half of 
lump sugar; have ready one pint of eggs, 
three parts ycdks, in a pan ; pour in the su- 
gar, and whisk it quick tiU cold, or aboot 
a quarter of an hour; then stir in two 
pounds of sifted flour; case the inside of 
square tins with white paper: fill them three 
parts full; sift a little sugar over, and bake 
It in a warm oven, and while hot i 
them finom the moulds. 



CAKE, DAUPHINE. Beat separate- 
ly the whites and yolks of twenty eggs; to 
the yolks add a pound of pounded and sifted 
loaf sugar, the gruted peelof one lemon, and 



CAK£ 



36 



CAKS 



two or thnee tabks-apooiifula of orange-fbwttr 
wMer; then stir in the white?, and lightly 
nHx in half a pound of dried and sifted flour. 
Bake it in a moderate oven. 

CAKE, FASHION. Mix a faandfiil of 
flour with a pint of good cream, lialf a pound 
of beef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of 
a >pound of |X)wderHsugar, half a pound of 
raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of 
orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, 
and salt ; ^e it as all other cakes, about an 
hour, and glaae or garnish it. 

CAKE, FOURRES. Make a puff paste, 
form it into two equai parts the size of the 
dish in which you mean to place your cake, 
and the thickness of two crowns each ; then 
take one of the cakes and put upon it wxae 
sweetmeats, leaving abont an inch, as a 
b(Ntler, all round; wet it with water and 
place the other cake upon it, draw up the 
edges rareftiHy with your fingers; giU them 
with tlie yolk of ^g, and rake tmm in an 
oven. 

CAKE, FRENCH. Twelve eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten well and separately, 
one poimd of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a large lemon, half a pound 
of sifted and dried flour, the same weight of 
sifted and dried ground rice, four ounces of 
sweet, and one ofbitter almonds, pounded in 
a mortar together, with a table-epoonftil of 
orange-flower wal^. Mix all these ingre- 
dients gradually, and beat tliem well. Pa- 
per the pan, and bake the cake for one hour. 

CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and 
flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and 
whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump 
sugar, pounded and sifted, and half an ounce 
of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one 
hour, hake it for the same time in a quick 
oven. This is a very Hgfat cake, and is ve- 
ry proper for young people and delicate 



L 



CAKES, RICH GINGERBREAD. To 

one powad of dried and sifted flour, allow 
half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, three* 
quarters of a pound of fi-edi butter washed in 
rose water, one pound of treacle, one nutmeg 
grated, the weight of a nutooeg of pounded 
mace, and as much of pound^ cinnamon, 
one otmce of pounded ginger, one and a half 
of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut smaU, 
lialf an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, cut 
it into long thin bits, and two well-bcnten 

XMelt the butter with the treacle, and 
nearly cold, stir in the eggs and tlie 
rest of the ingredients; mix aD well together, 
make it into round oikes, and bake them 
ttins. 



CAKE, GINGERBREAD. TOe tmr 

pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of floor, 
of brown sugar and fredh butter threeKfoai^ 
ters of a poimd each, four ounces of camway 
seeds, the same quantity of candied orange- 
peel cut small, four w^-beaten egga, and 
half an ounce of peaii ashes ; beat the butter 
to a cream, and mix it with the rejst of the 
ingredients. The next day -wotk it well op, 
and bake it in a buttered tin. 



CAKE, GLOVE. With flour i 
a paste thick enough to roll out, tlie beaten 
yolks often eggBt Ave table-spoonfuls of rich 
sweet cream, a little sugar, and some canfat- 
mons; cut it into &iiciftil forms with smal 
tins, and throw tliem into fi-edi boiling lard 
or butter ; when of a light brovra color, drain 
them before the fire. If fi*ied in butler, add 
a little water to the butter, and make it boii- 
ing hot. 

CAKES, GIRDLE. Rub three ouncei 
of fresh butter into one pound of flour, with 
half a tea-spoonful of salt; moisten with a 
suflkiency of sweet butter-mflk to make it 
into a paste ; roll it out, and cut it into cakes 
with a cup or tumbler, and bake them upoa 
a girdle. 

CAKES, HONEY. One pound and a 
half of dried and sifted flour, tlireeK{uarten 
of a pound of hon^, half a pound of fine^ 
pomded loaf sugar, a quarter of a poond of 
citron, and half an ounce of oraiige^ieel cat 
small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, fliree 
quaiters of an ounce. Melt the si^ar with 
the honey, and mix in the odier ingredients; 
roll out the paste, and cut it into small cakes 
of any form. 

CAKES, HEART. With your hand 
work a pound of butter to a cream, then pot 
to it twelve eggs, with only six of the H*it« 
well-beaten, a pound of dried flour, a poond 
of sifted sugar, four spoonftils of good brao^^ 
and a pound of currants washed and dried 
before the firo. As the pans are fiUedi pot 
in two ounces of candied orange and citroo, 
and continue beating the cake till yoaputit 
into the oven. This quantity will he sufr 
cient to fill three dozen of middluig ai» 
pans. 

CAKES, IRISH SEED. Beat to • 
cream eight ounces of finedi butler, and a 
quaiter of a pint of rose water, putting in • 
table-epoonfiil of rose water at a tvae; bj 
degrees, mix into it a pound of sif^ kw 
sugar, and then nine well-beaten e^i ^ 
twelve ounces of flour, and tlu^ee ^^^'^^ 
rice fU-ied and sifted, a quaiter of a poow 
of blanched and pounded sweet or bitlei' al- 
monds, a tea-spoonftd of eeaeDce ol f"^" 



CAKE 



87 



CAK£ 



ad one oimce of carawajr Meds ; beat aN 
tbese well together; bake it in a cake tin, 
wkich must be battered and lined with paper, 
alao buttered. It will require about one hour 
and a half to Yxke in acpiick oven. It may 
be made withoot the almonds or the eoi^noe 
of lefDon. 

GAKES, LITTLE. To a pound of flour 
dried, add a pound of lurapsugar rolled wy 
fine, the peel <^ two lemons dbopped small, 
And fivte oumces of butter ; mix them ihoT' 
oflg^h^; let it stand sometime befine the fire, 
theu add three eggs well beatm, the whites 
sepuately, pick them with a fork into small 
lumps, and bake them on a tin: this quanti- 
ty will make about eigh^ cakei. Instead 
cf leraon-peel you may, if you please, add 
sixty bitta* ahnonds blanched and beaten 
with white of egg until they are quite fine. 

CAKES, MANON. Form some pofi* 
parte into an under-ci^ist aiid cover some 
oaking-plates with it; then spread all over 
them some Jrangipane, or marmalade, of 
whatever soit you please ; add some sweets 
Aeat, and then cover with a va*y tliin crust ; 
gild and ornament them, then put them io 
tiieoven; when they are tiiree parts done, 
qxinkJe them with sugar, and glaze. When 
th^ are glaxed put them to finish baking in 
a snore gcantle oven, and wlien d<»e Uike 
Ifaem out of the tinfe, and set-ve tliem either 
hot or cold. 

CAKES, MONTROSE. Of dried and 
sifted flom*, pounded and sifted loaf si^r, 
and of fi^esh butter, one pound each will be 
required, also twelve vrell-beaten eggs, three 
quarters of a pound of cleaned and di'ied 
currants; beat the butter to a cream with the 
SDgar; add the eg^ by degrees, and then the 
flcmr and currants, with two table-spooniiils 
of brandy, one of rose water, and half a 
grated nutmeg; beat all well together for 
twenty or thirty minutes, whm it is to be 
put into small buttered tins, half filling them, 
and baking them in a quick oven. The 
eonants may be omitted. 

CAKES, MEAT. See MeaL 

CAKES, NUNS. Take four pounds of 
ray fine flour, and mix with it three pounds 
of double-«efined sugar, finely beat and sifted ; 
dtf them by the fire tlQ your otho* materials 
are prepared; take four pounds of butter, 
beat it in your hands till it is very soft like 
cream; bf»t thirty-four eggs, leave oiit six- 
teen whites and take out me treads finmn all ; 
beat the ^gs and Uttter toother till it ap- 
pears like butter, pour m four or five 
•IfoonfiilB of rose or orang6-fl6wer water, and 
Mat it again; then take, your flour and sugar 



with six oonoes of caraway seeds; strew < 
in by degrees, beating it up all the while, 
fiir two hours together ; put in as much tinc- 
ture of cinnamon, or ambergris, as you 
please; bolter your hoop, and k't it stand 
three hours in a moderate oven. 

CAKES, NUNS' BEADS. Poind ins 
mortar four ounces of good cheese, with m 
little salt, the beaten volks of tiiree eggs, and 
some crumbs of breiul ; roll tlieni as Targe 9m 
walnuts, cover them with piifl* paste, aiul fry 
tliem in butter a light brown color. Serve 
them in a napkin. 

CAKES, OATMEAU One only should 
be made at a time, as the mixture drie» 
quickly. Put two or three handfiils of meal 
into a bowl, and moisten it with water 
merely sufficieBt to form it into a cake; 
kneaA it out round and round with the hands 
upon the paste-board, strewing meal under 
and over it ; it may he made as thin as a 
wafer, or tliicker, according to taste, and 
put it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle. 
Bake it till it be a light brown on the under 
side, then take it off*, and toast that side 
before the fire which was uppermost on tha 
girdle. The toaster is such as is eommonly 
used for heating smoothing irons, having a 
back to support the cake. To make tKse 
cakes soft, they must not be' toasted belbre 
the fire, but both sides done quickly on the 
girdle. 

CAKE, PLUM. Three pounds of flour, 
three pounds of currants, three-quaiters of a 
pound of almonds, blanched and beat grossly, 
about Imlf an ounce of them bitter, four 
ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites 
of egg9, one pint of ci-eam, two pounds of 
butter, half a pint of good ale yeast ; mix the 
eggs and the yeast together, strain than ; set 
die cream on the fire, melt the butter in it; 
stir in the almonds, and half a pint of sack, 
part of which should be put to the almonds 
while beating; mix together the flour, cur- 
rants and sugar, what nutro^, cloves and 
maco are likM: stir these to die cream: pot 
in the yeasL 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (1) 
Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, ' 
bruise them in a mortar, and wlien nearly 
cold drop in the yolk and white of an egg 
at intervals, until four have been added, 
beating the potatoes well all the time; then - 
add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread 
crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat 
to a cream six ounces of fi^esb butter, with ■ 
the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; » 
put it into the mortar, with the grated peel 
of one lemon, and mix allthorougldy. Line 
the patty-pans with paste, fill tliem three 



CAKE 



38 



CAKE 



|wrt8 full, and bake them in a moderate | flugaroTcrtliem; they are soon baked. 
o?en. j may be dc»ie in a Dutch oven. 



Thej 



CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (2) 
Pound in a mortar five ounces of potatoes 
with four of fi-esh butter, and the same quan- 
tity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel 
and juice of half a lemon, three wel^beaten 
tt^gs, and a table-spoonful of brandy ; mix 
au well together, and bolce as before di- 
rected. 

CAKES, PARLIAMENT. Put into a 
•auce pan two pr)imdB of treacle, and wiien 
it boils, add a quarter of a pound of butter, 
and pour it upon two pounds of flour ; add a 
little alum, and a bit of pearlash about tlie 
mze of a nut, tuid an ounce of ginger. Work 
it well witli the hand till quite smooth ; let 
h stand a day and a night, then roU it out 
veiy thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. 

CAKE, POUND. (1) Take one pound 
of dried and siAed flour, the same quantity 
of sifted loaf sugar, and <^ firsh Ixitter wasii- 
€d in rose water ; llie well-beaten yolks of 
twelve, and tlie whites of six eggs ; then 
with the hand beat the butter te a cream, 
by degrees add the sugar, tlien the eggs and 
the flour; beat it all well togetlier for an 
hour. Bake it in a tin pan buttered, or in 
small ones in a quick oven. 

CAKE, POUND. (2) Take of dried 
and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresh but- 
ter, cleaned and dried currants, one pound 
each, and twelve eggs ; then whisk the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately, while 
anotlier with the hand beats the butter to a 
cream ; and as the firotli rises upon the eggs 
add it to the butter, and continue so doing 
till it is all beaten in; mix the flour and 
wagM together, and add them by d^rees ; 
the last wing, mix in the currants, together 
with a glass of bi'andv. It will require to 
l>e beaten during a wnole hour. Bake it in 
a battered tin. 

CAKE, POUND. (8) To a pomid of 
•ifted sugar, add a pound of fresh butter, and 
mix them with the hand ten minutes; put to 
them nine yolks and five whites of eggs well- 
beaten ; whisk all well, and add a pound of 
Mfted flour, a few caraway seeds, a quarter 
of a pound of candied orange-peel cut into 
dices, a few currants washed and picked, 
and mix all togetlier as light as possible. 

CAKE, QUEEN. . Beat one pound of 
butter to a cream, with some rose water, 
one potmd of flour dried, one pound of sifted 

X, twelve eggs; beat all well together; 
I few currants waslied and dried ; butter 
■mall pans of a size for the purpose, grate 



CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- 
peel, shred fine, into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a 
piece of butter half the size of an egg, a gbsa 
of water, and four, or five spoonfiils of ftom*; 
stir over tlie fire till the paste becomes thick, 
and begins to adhere to the stewpan ; then 
take it off, put in an egg, and stir it in the 
paste till it is well mixed ; continue to add 
one egg at a time, till the paste softens with* 
out becoming liquid; then put in sane 
dried orange flowers, and two bitter almood 
biscuits, tlie whole shred fine; make the 
paste into little cakes, alxiut the sixe roond 
of a half^rown ; put them on buttered paper, 
gild them with the yolk of an egg b^t up, 
and bake half an horn* in an oven modtt*atcv]r 
hot. 

CAKE, RICH. To two pounds and a 
lialf of dried and sifted flour allow the same 
quantity of fresh butter washed with rose- 
water, 'two pounds oC finely-pounded knf 
sugar, three pounds c^ cleaned and dried 
currants, one nutmeg grated, half a poimd 
of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a 
pound of blanched almonds pounded with a 
little rose-water, and twenty eggs, the yollui 
and whites separately beaten. The butter 
must be beaten with the hand till it beorane 
like cream; then add the sugar, and fay 
degrees the eggs, after tliese the rest of the 
ingredients, mixing in at last the currants, 
with a tea-cupfiil of brandy, and nearly as 
much orange-flower water. This mixture 
must be b^ten together ratliar more than 
an hour, tlien put into a cakepan, which has 
previously been buttered and lined with but- 
tered paper; fill it rather more than three- 
quarters fiill. It should be baked in a 
moderate oven for three hours, and then 
cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand 
sometime at the mouth of the oven. 

CAKE, RICE. (1) Whisk ten eggs for 
half an hour, add to them half a pound of floor 
of rice, half a pound of pounded and sifted 
loaf sugar, and the grated peel of two lemons; 
mix this into half a pound of finesh butto*, 
previously beaten to a cream. Bake the 
cake in a buttered tin. 



CAKE, RICE. (2) Take six ounces of 
ground rice, six ounces of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine eggpi, 
tlie yolks and whites beateu separately; mix 
all well toiler, grate in the rind of a leoion, 
and beat it well half an hour. 

CAKES, UTTLE RICE. WhiskweD 

six yolks and two whites of eggs; then with 



CAK£ 



99 



CAKE 



paoB 1 
iettlK 



A faom spoon beat in she oances of finely- 
poimded loaf sugar, add eiglit ouooes of silt- 
ed ground rice, and two tuble-spoooAiis of 
orange-dower or rose water, or the ^ted 
peel of a lemon, and just before the mixture 
M to be put into the tins, stir into it six 
oonoes of fineah butter melted; dust the patty 
I with floor, or rvb them with butter ; 
I tbem be half filled, and bake the cakes 
m a quick oven. 

CAKES, SMALL ROUT. Rub into 
<Nie pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of butter, six ounces of pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and tlie yolks of two welU 
beaten eggs ; mix diem all into a paste witli 
a little rosewater ; divide the quantity, put 
a few dried currants or caraway seeds into 
one half; roil out the paste, cut it into small 
raond cakes, and bake tbem upon buttered 



CAKE RICE, A SWEET dish. Wash 
well and drain a quarter of a pound of rice. 
I Boil with a quart of fresh cream the peel ot* 
! one lemon, and when nearly cold take it out 
and put in the rice; place the sauce pano\'er 
a slow fire, and when tlie rice has swollen, 
add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded 
kttf sugar ; wlien the rice is (]- 1 i 'e tender, add 
the yolks of ei^ht eg»8, and ..ux in gradually 
the beaten whites, with a good bit of fi^h 
butter, and pour it into a mould ; turn this 
round, that the butter may equally cover 
every part of it, then pour out tlie butter, and 
strew over the inside a layer of grated bread ; 
with a paste brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle 
' all over it some of tlie clarified butter, add 
more grated bread, pour in tlie rice, and 
faake It in a moderate oven for an hour. 
l\im it out upon a dish, and sen'e it with 
or witiiout a garnishing of preserved rasp- 
berries, cherries, or currants. 

CAKES, SPANISH. Rub, till quite 
fine and smooth, one pound of butter with 
two pounds of flour, then add a pound of 
good brown sugar, rolled finn; mix all to- 
g^her with four well-beaten e^;s; break 
the paste into small bits or knoLe, and bake 
them upon floused tins. 

CAKES, SHREWSBURY. Take a 

pound of butter, and put it in a little flat 

pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then 

take one pound of powdered sugar, a little 

cinn£unon and mace pounded, and four eggs, 

yolks and whites together ; beat them with 

your liand till it is very light; then take one 

I pound aad a half of sifbd flour, work it 

I together, and roll it on your dresser, to what 

i size you like, only very flat, let your oven be 

: rather slow, and let them cban^ their color, 

Ihea take them out. 



CAKE, SPONGE. (1) Weigh ten egi^r. 
and their Weiglit in very fine ru^ar, and that 
of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the floor^ 
and the whites abne, to a very stiflf froth: 
liken by degi^ees mix the whites and the floiv 
with die otlier ingrediento, and beat theo 
well half an boor. Bake in a quick of«tt aft 
hour. 

CAKE, SPONGE. (2) Take the joie* 
and grated rind of • lemon, twelve eggh 
twelve ounces of flnely-pounded loaf sugar, 
the same of dried and sifted flour ; then with 
a horn spoon beat the yolks of ten cm, add 
the sugar by degrees, and beat it tilFit will 
stand when dropped fixHn the spoon ; put is 
at separate times the two oUier eggs, yolk« 
and whites; whisk the ten whites ?ur eight 
minutes, and mix in the lemon-juice, ami 
when quite stifl*, take as much as die whisk 
will lift, aad put it upon the yolks and sugar, 
which must be beaten all the time; mix in 
li^itly the flour and grated peel, and poor it 
all gmdually over the whites ; stir it. togethei^ 
and bake it in a buttered tin, (jr in souJI 
tins; do not more dian half fill them. 

CAKES, SHORT. Diswlve half • 
pound of fresh butter in as much milk mt 
will make a pound and a half of flour into 
a paste, roll it out about a quarter of anr 
inch Uiick, and cot it into large round cakes. 
Do them in a fi-yiiig-pan, and sene them hot. 
Tliey are eateii wiUi lAitter. 

CAKES, SALLY LUNN. Take cme 
pint of milk quite warm, a quarter of a pint 
of thick stnall-beer yeast ; put them into a pan 
wiUi flour suflicient to make it as thick aa 
batter ,--<x)ver it over, and let it stand till it 
has rinen as high as it will, ». e, about two 
hours: add two ounces of lump sugar, di^ 
solved in a quarter of a pint of warm milk, 
a qiiaiter of a pound of butter rubbed into 
your flour very fine ; then make your doucb 
the same as for French rolls, &c. ; and M 
it stand half an hour; then make up voor 
cakes, and put Uiem on tins: Mhea they have 
stood to rise, bake Uiem in a quick oven* 
Care should be taken never to put your 
yeiist to water or milk too hot, or too cold, as 
eitlier extreme will destroy the fermentation. 
In summer it should be lukewarm, in winter 
a little warmer, and in very cold weadier, 
warmer still. When it has first risen, if voo 
are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand au 
hour. 

CAKES, SUGAR. Take half a pound 
of dried flour, the same quantity otfi^esh 
butter washed in rose water, and a quarter 
of a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; then mix 
togedier the flour and sugar: rub in the but- 
ter, and add die yolk of an egg beaten widi 



CAKE 



40 



CALF 



1^ tabfe^poonfiil of cream; mftke k into a 
paale, roll, and cut it into small round cakes, 
which bake upon a iUxired tin. 

CAKES, TEA. With a pound of flour 
lEub half a pound of butter; add the beaten 
yolks of two, and the white of one egg, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds ; mix it to a paste 
with a little warm milk, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it stand before the fire for 
nearly an hour ; roU out the paste, and cut it 
vito i-ound cakes with the top of a glass, and 
hake them upon floured tics. 

CAKE, TWELFra. Two ooonds of 
rifled flour, two pounds of siftea loaf su- 
oar, two pounds of but;ter, eighteen eggs, 
i|^ poundid of curmnts, one half pound of 
aknonds bianclied and cliopped, one half pound 
«^ citron, one pound of candied orange and 
Ipmon peel cut into tliin slices, a lai^ nut- 
nveg grated, half an ounce of ground allspice ; 
eround cinnamon, mace, ginger, and corian- 
oers, a quarter of an ounce of each, and a 
gill of bi-andy. Put the butter into a stew- 
pan, in a warm place, and work it into a 
smooth cream witli the hand, and mix it 
with the sugar and spice in a pan, (or on 
your paste board) for sometime; then break 
m the eg^ by degrees, and beat it at least 
twenty minutes ; stir in tlie brandy, and then 
the flour, and work it a little ; add the fruit, 
sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all to- 
getlier lightly ; have ready a hoop cased with 
paper, on a baking-f)late ; put in the mixture, 
smooth it on tlie tup with yom* band, dipped 
in milk; put the plate on another, witli saw 
duHt between, to prevent the bottom from 
coloring Uxt much: bake it in a slow oven 
four hours or more, and when nearly cold, 
ioe it with icing. This mixture would make 
a handsome cake, full twelve or fourteen 
inches over. 

CAKE, WHITE. Take of dried and 
■ifted floiu-yof fresh butter and of finely-pound- 
ed loaf sugar, one pound each ; five welUbeatcn 
eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied 
orange and* lemon peel, cut small, three quar- 
ters of an ounce each ; one ounce of cara- 
way seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of 
tNraiidy, and a littb rose water ; tlien beat 
the butter to a cream, and add all tlie other 
ingredients to it, and at the last mix iu one ta- 
bl&«poonful of fresh yeast ; let the cake rise 
before the fire for half an hour» Bake it in 
a buttered tin. Instantly upon taking it 
out of the oven, with a feather, brush the 
lop all over witli the beaten white of an egg, 
and then sift baf sugar upon it. Let it 
iHBiid at the mouth of die oven to harden. 

CAKES, YEAST. Take a pound of 



flour, two pounds of cnnraots, washed aal 
picked, a quarter of a pound of firush fauUer 
a quarter of a pound of Lisbon su^, a quar- 
ter of a pound of citron and candied oraogep* 
peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, ^ 
small quantity of each pounded and sifted. 
Make a hole in the centre oi the iogredienls, 
put in a gill of sWeet wine, a little wara^ 
milk, mix all lo^^ether, fill a hoop with it, 
let it remain till it rises, and bake it. 

CAKES, YORKSHIRE. Take two 
poimds of flour, and mix with it four ooBei 
of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, 
three spoonfiils of yeast, and two eggs; heat 
all well together, and lei it riae; then knead 
it, and nuuie it into cakes; let them rise on 
tins before you bake, wiyeh do in a sknc 
oven. Another sort is made aa aboye, leav- 
ing out the butter. The fiat is almrtec, tha 
la£t lighter. 

CAKE, BISCUIT. OoepavndollkMr, 
five e^ps weU-beaten and strained, eigiil 
ouncea of sugar, a little rone or orange-flowec , 
water, beat tlie whole thoroughly, and baka ^j 
it for one hour. v 

CALF'S BRAINS, with Oystsbb. ^ 

Blanch and vk'ivn the brains, then wipe than 
dry, dip ti.t.;i into yolks nf e^, and roi 
them in bread uiimbs; ir} them in boiliiig 
lard till of a good color, drain tbeiq very 
dry, and serve witli oysters, stewed either 
white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham 
cut in small round pieces. 

CALF'S BRAINS, Cleanse two calw' 
brains, and stew them in stock with two or 
tliree spoonfiils of vinc^^, a bunch of parv- 
ley, scalUons, a clove of garlic, three 
cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil ; when aiffi- 
ciedtly stewed, cut ^fcch piece of the bmia 
in two, dip them in a batter made of ivo 
handfiils of flour, dikited with a little oi), half 
a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in 
lard until the battor is ci'i»p and tbQ braiaa 
of a gold color. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with frikp f a»- 
SLEY. Blanch thi'ee or four brains of 
nearly an equal size; parboil them, and 
take ofi; the £kin ; tlien boil them in water, 
with a little salt, vinegar and butter, Serve 
tbem with a sisiuce made of a little browned 
butter, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some salt 
and pepper, and some parsley fried WJ 
green. 

CAIJF'S CHITTERUNGS. Outthca 
open with scissors, wash and cleanse them 
thoroughly, lay them for a night into salt* 
and-water, tlien wash them well, parboil 
a^d cut them into small pieces, dip tboiaiBi 



CALF 



41 



CALF 



\b & thick batter, Bcamned with pepper, < 
' alt, and a little white wine. Fi^ them of ' 
a ligiit browtt color in beef dripping ; serve ! 
with a frii^ of fried parsley. Or, Aftor 
being parboiled, th^ may be roosted, when , 
they mtst be constantly l»£>ted with butter, | 
dredged with tfour to froth them nicely; \ 
then senred with melted butter, and leiuun : 
pidcle poured over them. Or, They may j 
K baked— when, after being parboiled, tliey 
ue rubbed over with butter, and put into ' 
the oveo oa an iron frame, wliich is placed 
in a deep dish. This oblong fi-ame of 
white iron, about two inches high, will be 
finod oaeiul in baking every kind of meat. 

CALF'S CHAUDRON, FRICASSEE. 
Paiboil a calf's chaudron, and when cold, 
cot it in pieces about as big as wabuts; 
Mson tbem with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, 
nace, an odIot, tan-agon, and parstey, shred 
fine; £7 them in a Jadlefrd of good broth 
aad fresh butter; make a sauce of mutton 
gnvy, orange and lemcm juice, eggs' yolks, 

^ and grated Qiitmi^; toss up these iii^redi- 

' n(a with the chaudron, then dish it and 

;«rve. 

I 

I CALF'S-FEET PUDDING. SeePud- 
£ngt. 

CALF'S FEET JELLY. See Jelly, 

CALF'S FEET, POTTED. Boil the 
,feet as for jelly, pick all tlie meat from the 
hmeii, add to it lialf a pint of gravy, a little 
tth, peppei-, and nutmeg, gurlic, a sliallot 
md MMue flht-ed ham ; simmer it tor half an 
hoar, dip a mould into water, put in a lay- 
o^the meat, then some neatly-cut pickled 
1^ root, and some boiled minced parsley, 
^ a byer of meat, and so on, till the 
""wW be filled; when cold, turn it out. 
^^araish with pickled eggs, beet root, and 
parsley. 

CALF'S FEET, PLAIN, ScaU, clean, 
^ blanch some calves' feet, boil them till 
^ bones will come out, tlien stew them in 
Jlifaac. See Calf's Head, plain. When 
*«, drain and^serve theia with parsley 
Mdbutter. 

CALF'S HEAD, HASHED. Boil the 
^ almost enough, and take the meat of 
ue best side neatly from the bone, and hy 
It in a small dish; wash it over with thie 
y*« of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, 
» few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, 
ttd nutmeg, all mixed together previously, 
pet the dm befiure the fire, and keep tum- 
H it now and then, that all parts may be 
*<N|y brown. In the meantime slice the 
""luiidar of tbe head, and the tongue, 
4» 



(peeled) ; put a pTht of good gravy into ft 
pan, with an onion, a snitill bunch of herl«» 
(consisting of partdey, ba«il, savory, tarra- 
gon, knotted marjoram, and a Kttle thyme), 
a little salt and Cayenne, a shallot, a gbsa 
of Sherry, and a little ovster liquor: boifthit 
for a few minutes, and strain it upon th« 
meat, wliidi must be spriakled with floor. 
Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a 
few truffles and morels, and two spoonfiils of 
catchup; beat up half the brains, and put 
them to the rest, with a bit of txitter and 
flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other 
part of the brains with shred leinon-peel, a 
little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, 
and an egg; fry this in little cakes of a fine 
gold color; dip some oysters into the yolk 
of an egg, and fry the same way, also boom 
good foiioemeat balls, and garnish the diab 
with tliem. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK 
TURTLE. See Soups, 

CALF'S HEAD. With a sliarp knife 
cut all tbe meat entire from the bone, cut 
out the tongue, and careiiilly take out the 
brains ; lay them all in cold water for two or 
tliree hours. Mince very sniiill two pounds 
of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, 
with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, 
some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutinog, 
pepper, and salt ; mix tliem well together, and 
bind it with tlie volks of four eggs beaten up ; 
resene as mudi of the forcemeat as will 
make twenty small balls: wash tlie head 
clean, wipe it dry, and put the forcemeat in- 
to tbe inside ; close it, and tie it firmly with 
tape; put it into a stewpan witli two quarts 
of gravy, half a pint of white wine, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and 
let it stew gently ; boil the tongue, cut it in- 
to thin slices, mince the brains with a little 
parsley and a tible-spounful of flour, add^ 
some pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and 
nutmeg; beat two eggs and mix with die 
brains, drop it witli a spoon in small cakes 
into a pan of boiling dripping, and fry 
tliem of a light brown color. Fry the foi'ce- 
lueat balls, and diaiu them, witli* the cakes, 
upon the back of a sieve before the fire ; 
when tlie head has stewed till it be suffic- 
iently tender, put it into a dish and take off 
the tape, strain the gravy, and thicicen it 
with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a 
little bit of butter; if not well seasoned, add 
more salt and pepper, put in the tongue, 
make it all hot, and pour it over the head. 
Garnish with tlie brain-cakes, fi>roemeat 
balls, and cut lemon. 

CALF'S HEAD, ROASTED. Wash 

and clean it well, parboU it, take oat 
the bones, brams, and tongue; make Ihroe- 



CALF ^ 

n^t wfficient for the head, and some 
balls with bread crumbs, minced suet, pars- 
ley, ffrated ham, and a little pounded veal^ 
or cold fowl ; season with pepper, salt, ffrated 
DQtm^g, and lemon-peel; bind it witli an 
egg, beaten up, fill the head widi it, which 
must then be sewed up, or fastened with 
skewers and tied. While roasting, baste it 
well with butter; beat up the branis with a 
Httle cream, the yolk of an egg, some minc- 
ed parsley, a little pepper and salt ; blanch 
the tongue, cut it into slices, and fry it 
with die brains, forcemeat halls, and thin 
slices of bacon* Ser\'e the head with white 
or brown thickened gravy, and place the 
tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains round it. 
Garnish with cut lemon. It will require 
one hour and a half to roast. 

CALF'S' HEAD, PLAIN. Clean a 
calPs head nicely, and cut out the bone of 
the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out 
the nose bone as close to the eyes as possi- 
ble; wash the head well in warm water, 
ai)d let it blanch in some clean water. Pre- 
pare a blanc, or sauce, as follows: — One 
pound of beef suet, and one pound of £it 
bacon, cut small, half a pound of butter, a 
bunch of parsley, a little thyine,. two or 
three bay leaves, one or two onions, and tlie 
juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper^ 
mace, cloves, and allspice; boil all this an 
hour in six pints of water, dien tie up the 
head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about 
thi^ee hours, and drain it; take out the 
tongue, skin and replace it; serve quite 
hot, with die following sauce — ^minced shal- 
lots, parsley, the brains minced> some vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, SOUSED. Scald 
and bone a calPs head, and soak it for sev- 
en or eight hours, changing the water twice ; 
diy it well. Season with salt and bruised 
garlic ; roll it up, bind it very tight, and 
boil it in white wine, salt and water; when 
done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and 
JMjep it for use. Serve up either whole, or 
in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, BIGAREE. Clean 
and blanch a calf's head, boil it till the 
bofies will come out easily, then bone and 
prqss it between two dishes, so as to give it 
aii. oblong form ; beat with the yolks of four 
Mps a little melted butter, pepper, and salt. 
IMyide the head when cold, and brush it all 
ovw" with the beaten eggs, and strew over it 
giij^Jed bread ; repeat tibis twice. With the 
grated bread, which is put over one half, a 
good quantity of findy-mmced parsley should 
b^filixed; plaoD tbo head, upon a dish, and 
hm it of a nice brown <Qolor^ Serve it 
wi%^l^ m^ of pufi^ and butter, and i 



2 CALP. 

with one of good gravy, mixed wilh t^ 
bi-ains which have been previoiely boiled, 
and chopped, and seasoned with a UtUe 
Cayenne and salt. 

CALF'S HEART, ROASTED. FiO 
the heart with the following forcemeat: a 
quarter of a pound of beef suet, chopped 
small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lem' 
on-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk 
of an egg. Lay a veal caul, or a sheet of 
paper on the stuffing to keep it in its place. 
Put tlie heart into a Dutch oven, before a 
clear fire, and turn it frequently, tifl thor- 
oughly roasted all round. Garnish with 
slices of lemon, and poiu: melted butter owr 
it. 

CALF LIVER. BROILED. Slice it, . 
season with pepper and salt, and broil nice- 
ly: nib a bit of coW butter on it, and sen* 
hot and hot. 

CALF'S LIVEI^, LARDED AND 
ROASTED. Lard a fine calf's liver the 
same as a fricandeau, and let it lie for 
twenty-foui' hours in vinegar, widi a siloed 
onion, some parsley, a little thyine, a bay 
leaf, some salt and pepper. JSUmU and 
baste it well with butter, tlien glaze it with 
a ligli( glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, 
or any other sauce. 

CALF'S UVER, ROASTED. (1) 

Wash and wipe it ; then cut a bng bole in i^ 
and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped 
anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, 
pepijer, a bit of butter, and an egg; sew 
the liver up; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, 
and roast it. Serve with good brown gra- 
vy and currant jelly. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (2) 

Lard a calf's liver with streaky baooo; 
roast and baste it finequently with its own 
gravy. 

CALF'S hlVER, ROASTED. (3) 
Lard a fine calf's liver, and pickle it in 
vinegar, with an onion, cut into slices, paw- 
ley, saltj pepper, thyme, and a bay leaf. 
When it has been soaked for twent)"fo«r 
hours, listen it on a spit, roast and baste it 
frequently. Giaze it with a Ugfat ^lui^ ¥ 
it is naturally of a black color. Serve ai- 
der it a brown poiorode, 

CALF'S LIVER, SCOLIOPS. Tv- 
boil and qut into slices a very nice calTf 
liver, and sliape them into, hearts. Stev 
some fine herbs, parsley, shallots, and oMpb-. 
rooms; dien add the calf's liver, and kt I 
stew over a skw fire; wh«n done en eoj . 
side, turn and 9eaMp..it with ^^isfi^ *°^' 



OAP 



43 



CAF 



•ah; .takft o«t the lh«r» dredge i» a little 
I flour over the herbs, and add Bome noore 
eravy; let this hoW for ten minutes, then 
neat the liver in the sauce before serving; it. 
This may be eaten at bceakiauit. 

CALF'S PLUCK. Wash it vety clean, 
and, if liked, stuff the heart witli a force- 
meat, made of cnimbe of bread, butler, and 
panley, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
riBted nutaneg. Fasten it firmly with the 
uver and lights, tying them to the skewerA 
while roasting; baste it well with butter, 
and froth it the same way in which veal is 
done, and aerve it with melted butter, mix- 
ed with a table-fipoonfiil of lemon pickle, or 
via^ar ponced over it. 

CAPER SAUCE. Set Sauee. 

CAPILLAIRE. Take fborteen pounds 
of snsar, three pounds of coarse sugar, six 
iggs beat in with the sheUs, three (fuarts of 
water; boil it op twice; skim it well, then 
add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flow- 
er water; strain it through a jellv-bag, and 
pat it into bottles; when cold, mix a 
I spooafiil or two of this sirup, as it is liked 
I far sweetueas in a draoglU of wann or cokl 
j water. 

CAPILOTAPfe ITALIAN. Cut up 

a cold roast fowl; thea take a good slice 

•f butter, and some shred mushrooms and. 

I potherbs; fiy these till they are about to 

torn brown, with a tea-spoonful of flour; 

dien add to them a bi^e gtan of white 

wine. Let the whole siomMr together ^ a 

I quarter of an hour; next put ia the pieces 

I offowl, andheatthemnplbrafewminttleB. 

Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread; 

and just before you serve, pour mto the 

saucepan two table-spoonfuls of oil, taking 

care that it does not boil, and stir it up well 

with the sauce. 

CAPONS OR FOWLS, Murt be kill- 
ed a couple of dam in moderate, and more 
m cold weather, before they are dressed, or 
they will eat tough: a good criterion of the 
ripeness of poultry for the spit, tB the ease 
with wliich ynu can then pull out the feathers ; 
when a Ibwl is plucked, leave a few to help 
yoa to aacertaia this. They are maaaged 
eamctly in the same manner, and sent up 
with the same sauces as a turkey, only they 
require proportionably less time at the fire. 
A fiiU-grown flve-toed fowl, about an hoar 
and* a quarter. A moderate-sixed one, an 
hour- A chicken, from tliirty to forty min- 
Hare, abo,. pock «aiiKigea fried are 
general a ^vorite aooonpanimeat, or 
tmkej stuffing; see (broemeats; put in plen- 
^^of ,il^ JO i» t^ phiiBp out th«'|bwl» with 



must be tied ckaely (both at the neek and- 
rump), to keep in the stuffing. Someoooka 
put the liver of the fowl into this forcemeat, 
and others mince it and pound it, and rub it 
up with flour and melted butter. When 
the bird is stufied and truend, sccn« the 
^issard nicely, dip it into roelled butter, let 
It drain, aoJ then season it widi Oiyeone 
and salt ; put it under one piaioa, ami tfaa 
liver uader the other; to prevent their get- 
ting hardened or soorched, cover them with 
double paper buttered. Take care that 
your rawted poultry be well browned ; it is 
as indiapensable that roasted pookry should 
have a rich brown complexion, as boiled 
poultry shoukl have a delioate white one. 

CAPON, TO CHOOSE. Ifitisyomi^, 

his Bpan are short and his less smooth ; if 
a true capoo, a 6t vein on the aide of bis 
breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly aad 
rump; if finesh, be will have a dose hard 
vent; if stale, a kiose open vent. 

CAPON, THE FRENCH WAY. Take 
a quart of white wine, season the capon 
with sak, cloves, and whole pepper, a few 
shalbts; and then put the capon io an earth* 
en pan; you arast take care it has not room 
to shake; it must be covered ckwe, and done 
over a slow diarooal fire. 

CAPON PASTY. Roast a capon, let 
it be cold, take the flesh from the bones and 
slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions 
whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four 
sweed)reads and half a pint of oysters, sea* 
son them with salt, ctoves, nutmeff, and 
mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and 
thyme, minced; lay a sheet of paper or 
paste in your pasty-pan, and lay the thighs 
and pinions on the bottom, and strew dwm 
over with sliced onions, then put in the 
flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and the 
oysters, cut in halves; over these strew a 
handfiil of chestnuts, boiled and blandied, 
then put butter over Uiem, close up your pan 
and bake it ; wlien d(Hie, add gravy, good 
stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and grated 
nutmegs garnish with slices of lemon, and 
serve. Turkey may be done in the same 



CAPONS A LA TURQUE. Pwk, 
and dean very nicely, two fine capons ; wash 
the inside penectl^ clean with warm water, 
and let them soak in warm vrater for a 
riuarter of an hour; dnr them wdl, and put 
into them some rice which hat been boiled 
till soft in some rkh well-seasoned stock, 
trua» and* cover them widi layers of bacon, 
wrap them in papery and roast then for an • 
hour- by a hanginshjack; aerve them, piil»- 
tmgall round the dish a part«cf 4h» riaai 



CAR 



44 



CAK 



lAiich was prepartsd tot the stuffing, and 
Doar over the fowls a veloute sauce. One 
nne large fowl may be dressed in' diis 
manner. 

CAPSICUMS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the pods, with tlie stalks on, before they turn 
red ; cut a slit down the side with a pen- 
knife, and take oat all the seeds, but as lit- 
tle of the meat as possible ; lay them in a 
strong brine for three days, changing it eve- 
ry day; then take them out, lay them on a 
cloth, and lay another over them till they 
are quite diy ; boit vinegar enough to cover 
tliem, put in some mace and nutmeg beat 
small ; put the pods into a glass or jar, and 
when the liquor is cold, pour it oter, then 
tie a bladder and leather over them. 

CARDOONS, WITH CHEESE. String 
and cut tliem an inch long, put tliem into a 
saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, stew them till they are tender, 
put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
when of a proper thickness poin* them into 
a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into 
the sauce, and scrape over them some Par- 
mesan or Cheshire cheese, and then hrown 
them with a clieese-iron, but not of too high 
a color. 

CARDOONS, TO DRESS. Cut them 
in pieces six inclies long, and put tiiem on a 
sti'ing ; boil till tender, have ready a piece 
of butter in a pan, flour ,and dy them. They 
may also be tied in bundles, and served as 
aBparagiis boiled on a toast, and poitr but- 
ter over. 

CARDOONS, SPANISH. Out them 
into lengtlis of three inches, be careiiil not 
to use tliofiie which are hollow and gi'een ; 
boil diem for half an hour, tlien put tliem 
into lukewarm water to cleanse them from 
tlieir slime ; tlien dress them in some stock, 
w^ith a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, 
roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ver- 
juice, and a little butter ; when done, put 
Uiem into a cullis with some stock; cook 
them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. 

CARROTS. Let diem be well washed 
and brushed, not scraped. An hour is 
enou^ for young spring carrots ; gixiwn car- 
rots must be cut in lialf, and will take from 
an hour and a half to two hours and a half. 
When done, rub off the peels with a clean 
coarse cbth, and slice ttem in two or four, 
according to their siase. The best way to 
try if tliey are done enough, is to pierce ttiem 
with a fork. Many people are fond of ookl 
carrot with cold beef; ask if you jahall cook 
enough for some to be left to send up with 
dw GoM meat. 



CARAtaEL, OR BOILED SUGAR. 
Break into a small copper or brass pan, one 
pound of refined su^ai, — put in a gill of 
spring water j— set it on a fire, and when 
it boils, skim it quite clean, and let it boil 
quick, till it comes to the degree callod 
Crack, which may be known by dipping a 
teas|)oon or skewer into the sugar, and led 
it drop to the bottom of a pan of coki water ; 
and if it remains hard, it has attained that 
degree ; squeeze in the juice ofhalf a lemon, 
and let it remain one minute longer on the 
fire, then set the pan into anotlMr of cold 
water: — have ready moukls of any diape, 
— ^rub them over with sweet oil, dip a spooD 
or fork into the sugar, and throw it over the 
mould in fine threads, till it is quite eovered: 
— ^make a small handle of caramel, oi- stick 
on two or three small gum paste rings, hj 
way of ornament, and place it over sinaU 
pastry of any description. 

CARP, BOILED. Scale and clean a 
brace of carp, reserving the livw and roe ; 
take half a pint of vinegar, or a qoait of 
sharp cider, add as much water va will cov- 
er the fish, a piece of horse-radish, an onion 
cut into slices, a httle sah, and a laggot of 
sweet herbs ; boil the fish in this liquor, and 
make a sauce as follows: — strain some of 
the liquor the fish has been boiled in, and 
put to it the liver minced, a pint of Port 
wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of 
shallots chopf)ed, some salt and black pep- 
per, a little Cayenne, a tablc-spoonfiil of soy ; 
boil and strain it, tliicken it widi flour and 
butter, pour it over tlie carp hot, gamissh 
with the roe fried, cut lemon and parsley. 

CARP, STEWED. Scale and clean 
a brace of carp, resei'ving the liver suid 
roe ; poor over the fish in a deep pan a pint 
of vinegar, which may be elder vinegar, if 
the flavor is preforred, with a little mace, 
three cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, 
two onions sliced, a fiiggot of parsley, basil, 
thyme, and marjoi-ani; let tlieui soak an 
hour, tlien put them in a stewpau with the 
vinegar, and otiier diin^, the liver chopped, 
a pint of Madeira, and tliree pints of veal 
stock; stew them an hour or two accord- 
ing to their size ; take out the fish and put 
them ovOT a pan of hot water to keep warm 
while the following sauce is made:--Straia 
the liquor, and add tlie yolks of three ^ga 
beaten, half a pint of cream, a large spoon- 
fiil of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, stir it constantly, and just b^bra 
putting it over the carp, squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon. Boil or fry the roe. 
Plain boiled carp may be served with this 
sauce, and is dished in a napkin. 

CARP, FRIED. Qeu and fnh % 



CAtJ 



4A 



CHA 



eaip;flpKtkoptheback; flatten iIk faadc« 

bone, flpriokle your fiih with flour, then 
ipraiUe tile roes w^icb have been put aside, 
potthe'wiiole into a flryii^-fiaB inade 
fiy to a rich color, fl»d m 



► ▼ery 
with 



CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or 
dme boiled oarrols to a pulp with a spoou; 
add to tiiem MX eggs and a handful of flour; 
nottten them widi eitlier creaoi, milk, or 
vhiie wine, and sweeten ihem. Beat aU 
togedierwell,andfiviBboiHiigkurd. When 
of a good color, take them off and mfmeme 
on ttem the juice of a Seville ocai^|B, and 
itrew over fine sugar. 

CARROT PUDDING. -See Pudtkng. 

CA3SILE. Mix two table-spouiflik of 
potato-flour with two or three oif creasn or 
good fflilk; boil for a few minutes with a 
(fart of cream or milk, the peel of a- lemon 
and a bit of cinnamon ; stir it with the flour 
and cream ; sweeten, and stir it again over 
tbe fire for three or four minutes; pour it in- 
to a moold ; turn it out when cold. 

CAUUFLOWER. Choose dioee diat 
are ckne and- white, and'of tha-middle siae; 
trim off die outside leaves ; cut the stalk off 
intat the bottom; let them lie in saU and 
JwitaranlioOT before you boil them. Put 
neiD into boilin? water with a haadfol of 
nit in it; skim it well, and let it boil slow- 
ly tiU done, which a small one will be in fif- 
tem, a large one in about twenty minutes; 
lake it op the moment it- is enough, a min- 
ute or two kwiger boiling will spoil it. 

^^UUFLOWERS OR BROCCOLI, 

rICKLED. Gbooee those that are hard, 
J'ct tngioiently ripe, cut away the lotves and 
™. Set on a stewpaa half full of water* 
■JKM in proportion of a quarter of a pound 
of jrfttoa quart of water; throw in the 
?»juwwer,a»d let it heat gradually; when 
«WMtt take it up wiA a spoon fi?ll of holes, 
^ apvead them on a cloth to dry before- 
"^ fire, for twenty-four hours at least ; when 
9o>te dry, pot them, piece by piece, into 
gra or khasa tie-overs, and cover them with 
™ pickle we have directed for beet roots, 
^ ^ke a pickle by infusing three ounces 
w the curry powdor for three days in a quart 
M vine(pr by the side of the fire. Nastur- 
^"»» are excellent prepared as above. 

CAUUFWWERS, PICKLED. Cut 

^^'i^®^*^*® "* pieces, and throw them 
"*» boiling water for a quarter of an hour; 
?« lay them on ck>ths to drain. Put them 
JU jar with cloves and sak, and cover 
"Oft with the be^t vinegar. 



CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

you have preparad an 
flowers, drain and kt I 
in pieees; season ihn 
oil and vinegar, aud cat them as miy akhm 



CAUDT^. (1) BoilaplmirapMlor 
fine gruel, with a bit of butter the siie of a 
hune ua/meg, a ku^ spoonfiil ef bmody, 
the Ba«ie>of white wme, oae of cafiittaira^ m 
piece of leano-ped, and nutflM^. 



CAUDLE. <2) Make a floa mnodi 
gruel of half-grili; when faoiiad, mnim it, 
stir it at timeB till eoU. When wanlad for 
use, add sugar, wine, and himim pesi, with 
some nalBMg. Aoeording' le tMle,you any 
add, ifyou please, besidea the wine, a speoo* 
fol of brandy, or leaia»^uio«. 

CAUDLE, BROWN. Boil the gmel 
the same as for white candle, with sixspooi** 
fills of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a 
quart of good ale^ not bitter; boil it, then 
sweeten it aa(x>rdiiig to your tasia, and add 
half a pkit of white wine. When yoa do 
not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. 

CAUDLE, COLD; Boil a qaart of. 
spring water; when oold, add the yolk of 
an egs, the jaioe ofaamall lemony six spoon* 
fills of sweet wine, suoar to your taale, aad 
one ounce of simp of leoiDaa. 

CECILS. Mix over the fire for a few 
minutes the following ingredienu: minoed 
meat of whatever kind you please, bread 
crumbs, plenty of onion, leiiion.peel, nut* 
meg, pan^ chopped, pepper, sak, a little 
butter, and some anchovies. When nearly 
ocld, roil them up into balls about the si^ 
of an egig; moisten then with eag, straw 
bread cnnabe over them, and firy them of a 
good clear ookir: serve them with made 
gravy, 

CELERY, TO STEW. Wash and 
clean some heads of celery, cut them into 
pieces oi two or three inches long, boil 
them in veal stock till tender. To half a 
pint of cr^on add the weU4)eaten yoHa of 
two eggs, a bit of lemon-peel, grated nut* 
meg, and salt, also a bit of butter; make it 
hot, stirring it constant^ ; strain it upon the 
celery; heat it thorouglily, but do not lei it 
boil. 

CHARLOTTE. (1) Cut a sufficient 
number of thin slices of whhe iM^ead to co^'er 
the bottom and line the sides of a bnkiug- 
dish, fiiTt rubbing it thickly with butter. 
Put thin slices of apples into the dish ui' 
layerr, till the dish is fiiU^' strewing •u|a^ 



CHE 



40 



CHS 



ind Uu of butter iwtwieen. In the mean- 
time, Boak as many thin slices of bread as 
will cover the whole, in waim milk ; over 
which place a plate, and a weiglit, to keep 
the bread close upon the apples ; let it bake 
slowly for three hours. For a middling- 
sized dish, you should use half a pound of 
butter (or the M'hole. 



may I 
and if 



CHARLOITE. (2) This 
V be made of any kind of fruit you please, 
[ is eaten hot. If apples are used, pai«, 
core, and cut about twenty of them into 
small pieces, and pot them into a stewpan 
with some water, a good piece of fi«sh but- 
ter, powder'Migar, pounded cinnamon, and 
srated lemon*fwel, aund stew till the water is 
dried up; then set them U> cool in an earth- 
en ware vessel. Cut some very thin slices 
of crumb of bread, dip them in mcdted fresh 
butter, and lay them neatly all over the bot- 
tom and round the sides of the stewpan; 
thffli pour in the apples, leaving a hole in 
the middle, in which put apricot marma- 
lade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced 
thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a 
hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. 

CHARLOTTE DES POMMES. Pare, 
onre, and mince fourteen or fifteen French 
rennet apples; put them into a fiying-pan, 
with some pounded loaf sugar, a little pound- 
ed cinnamon, grated lonon-peel, and two 
ounces and a hcuf of fresh butter ; fry them 
a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stir- 
ring them constantly. Butter a shape of 
the size the charlotte is intended to be; cut 
strips of bi^ead about the width of two fin- 
gers, and long enough to reach from the 
Dottom to the rim of the shape, so that the 
whole be lined with bread ; dip each bit in- 
to melted butter, and then put a layer of 
the firied apples, and one of apricot jam or 
marmalade, and then one of bread dippinl 
into butter; begin and finish with it. Bake 
it in an oven fi>r nearly an hour ; turn it out 
to serve it. It maybe boiled, and seiTcd 
with a sweet sauce. 

CHEESE, BOILED. Grate a (quarter 
of a pound of good cheese, put it into a 
saooe pan, with a bit of butter the size of a 
nutmeg, and half a tea-cupfiil of milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boil, and then add a well- 
beaten eeg; mix it all together, put it into 
a small dish, and brown it before the fire. 

CHEESE, CAKE OF. Take about the 
fourth part of a dose, fat Brie cheese, pound 
and rub it through a sieve ; mix witli it a 
pint and a half of flour ; lay it on the board, 
make a liole in the middle, into which put 
three quarters of a pound of butter, and work 
k ia well; add to it a little Gruyere cU«»e 



grated, and six eggs. Knead tbefle al to* 
gether well ; moukl it up, and let it stand* 
tor half an hour ; then roll it out, and maka 
it into a cake of about three inches; mark 
it with a knife on one side in chequers, aaj 
on the other in rays; dorez, and bake it ia 
a moderate oven. 

CHEESE CREAM. Warm three half * 
pints of cream with one half pint of milky 
or accordhig to the same proportion, and 
put a little rennet to it; keep it covered ia 
a warm place till it is curdled; have a pro* 
per mould with holes, either of China or any 
other; put the curds into it to drain, aboot 
an hour, or less: serve with a good plaia 
cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

CHEESECAKES, (1) Puttwoqoarti 
of new milk into a stewpan, set it near d» 
fire, and stir in two table-Bpoonfids of lea- 
net: let it stand till it is set (this will take 
about an hour); break it well with yo>jr 
hand, and let it remain half an hour longer; 
then pour ofi'the whey, and put the curd mto 
a colander to drain ; when quite dry, put if 
in a mortar^ and pound it quite flmootb; 
then add four ounces of sugar, pounded and 
sifled, and three ounces of fi^ batter; oil 
it firat by putting it in a little potting-pot, 
and setting it near the fir&; stir it all well 
together: beat the yolks of four eggs in a 
faiuin, with a little nutmeg grated, lemon- 
peel, and a glass of brandy ; add this to the 
curd, with two ounces of currants, washed 
and picked; stir it all well together; have 
your tins reotdy lined with pufi^ paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick, notch ^^^^^^ 
round the edge, and fill each with the Gnrd> 
Bake them twenty minutes. When yoa 
have company, and want a variety, yoa can 
make a mould of curd and cream, by pot- 
ting the curd in a mould full of holes, instead 
o» the colander: let it stand Sac six boon, 
then turn it out very carefiilly cm a dish, and 
pour over it half a pint of good cream sweet- 
ened with loaf sugar, and a little nutmeg. 
What diere is left, if set in a cool place, 
will make excellent cheesecakes the next 
day. 

CHEESECAKES. (2) Put a spooiAl 
of rennet into a quait of milk ; when tamed, 
di-ain the curd through a coarse sieiv, gent- 
ly break the curd, and rub in a quarter of 
a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound «f 
sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples bisouta 
grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white 
of one, half an ounce of abnonds, half hitter 
and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, 
with two spoonfuls of rose water, four o|>''^ 
of currants; put in the curd, and mix all 
together. One quart of milk, and three 
dessert spoonfuls of rice<dour, six cgpi k*** 



CHE 47 



CHS 



Qi( dunee of the whites, and cnranti to 
yoor taste. 

CHEESECAKES. (3) Beat eighl 
ciggs welly while a quart of milk is on the 
lire, and when it boils, pat in the eggs, and 
stir them till tbey come to a curd ; tlieo pour 
it out, and when it is cold, put in a little 
sab, two ^)oonfuLa of rose water, and lhre(»- 
qnarters c^ a pound of curranta well washed ; 
put it into puff paste, and bake it. If you 
use tin patties to bake in, butter tliem, or 
YOU will not be able to take them out ; but 
if yoQ bake tliem in glass or china, only an 
upper crust will be necessary, as you will 
not want to take them out when you send 
tfaem to table. 

CHEESECAKES. (4) Take one pound 
<^ loaf sugar pounded, six yolks, and foin* 
whites of eggs beaten, the juice of three fine 
lemons, the grated rind of two, and a quar- 
tetofa. pouim of fresli butter ; put these in- 
gradients into a saucepan, and stir tlie miic- 
lare gently over a slow fire till it be of the 
conskteuce of honey; |x>ur it into small 
jars, and when cold put paper dipped in 
brandy over them. It will keep good ibr a 
year. 

C3IEESE, POUNDED. Cut a pound 
of good mellow cheese into thin bite; add 
to It two, and if the cheese is dry, three 
ounces of fresh butter ; pound, and rub them 
wdl together in a mortar till it is quite 
smooth. Wb^i cheese is dry, and for those 
whose digestion is feeble, this is the best 
way of eating it; and spread on bread, it 
makes an excellent luncheon or supper. 
The piquance of this is sometimes increas* 
ed by pounding with it curry powder, ground 
spice, black pepper, Cayenne, and a little 
made mustard ; and some moisten it with a 
glass of Sherry. If pressed down hard in 
a jar, and covered with clarified butter, 
it will keep for sevei-al days in cool weath- 



CHEESE, ROASTED. Grate three 
ounces of &t cheese, mix it with the 
yolks of two eg^, four ounces of grated 
bread, and three ounces of butter ; beat the 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert spoon- 
ful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. 
Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces; 
lay the paste, as above, thick upon them, 
put them into a Dutch oven covered witli a 
dish, till hot through, remove tlie dish, and 
Ie» the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot 
as possible. 

CHEESE, STEWED. Melt three- 
ouarters of an ounce of butter in a tea-cup- 
ful of cream, mix with it a quarter of a 



poond of good cheaw finely crated, beat H 
well tc^ether; put a slice of toasted bread 
into a dish, and pour the mixture over it, 
and brown it with a kalamander. 

CHEESE TOASTED, OR RABBIT. 

Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it 
in red wine, put it before the fire ; cut some 
cheese in very thin slices, and rub some but- 
ter qver the bottom of a pkue, lay the dieese 
upon it, and pour in two or dirue spoonfiib 
of while wine, and a little miutard; cover 
it with another plate, and set it on a chafing- 
disii of coals two pr three minutes, then stir 
it till it is well mixed ; wlien it is misced 
enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it 
with a salamanaer. 

CHEESE TOASTED. Oit a dice of 
bread about half an inch thick ; pare off the 
crust, and toast it very sli^tly on one side 
so as just to brown it, without making it 
hard or burning it. Cut a slice <^ (^od 
fiit mellow chnse, a quarter of an inch 
thick, not so big as the bread by half an 
inch on each side: pare off the rind, cut out 
all die specks and rotten parts, and lay it 
on tlie toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; 
carefiilly watch it that it does not bura, and 
stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle 
forming on the surface. Have ready good 
mustard, pepper and salt. If you obwrve 
the directions here ^iven, die cheese will 
eat mellow, and will be uniformly done, 
and the br^ crisp and soft, and will well 
deseiTC its ancient appellation of a " rare 
bit." This Receipt, as well as every other 
worth extracting, is fiwn die Cook's Oracle. 
The Editor goes on to say. We have noth- 
ing to add to the directions given for toast- 
ing the cheese in tlie last receipt, except that 
in sending it up, it will save much time in 
portioning it out at table, if you have half a 
dozen small silver or tin pans to fit into the 
clieese-toaster, and do the cheese in these: 
each person may then be helped to a sepa- 
rate pan, and it will keep the cheese much 
hotter than the usual way of eating it on a 
cold plate. Ob$. — Ceremony seldom tri- 
unyjhs more completely over comfort than in 
the serving out of this dish ; whicli, to be 
presented to the palate in perfection, it is 
imperatively indispensable that it be intro- 
duced to the mouth as soon as it appears on 
the table. 

CHERRY BRANDY. (1) Pick and 
bruise eiglit pounds of black maroons, and tlie 
same quantity ofsmall black cherries; let tliem 
stand for two mondis in a cask with six 
gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred to- 

her. At die end of that time it may br 

Lwn offandbottlfaJ. 



tmi 



4d 



tM 



XmeSKT BRABTDY. (2) Ommh 
fine somd morelta di«rri«b, and having- 
taken off iJhe cAalks, piade diem in layers 
in fflaas jare; strew powder-Atigar between 
each layer, and cover them with brandy. 
Ab floon as the cherries have imbibed the 
brandy, pom* in more, so as to keep diem 
constintly covered. 

CHERRIES, DRIE1>. take large 
chen i es, not too ripe ; pick off the stalks, 
and take out the stones witH a quill cut 
nearly as fcr a pen : to three pounds of which 
take three pounds or pints of clarified sugar ; 
boil it to the degree of blown ; put in the 
dierries, gi\'e them a boil, and set diera by 
in an eaithen pan till the next day; then 
strain the sirup, add more sugar, and boil 
it of a ^ood consistence; put tl^ cherries in, 
and boil them five i^iinutes, and set them by 
another day: repeat die boiling two more 
dacvHt and when wanted, drain diem some- 
time, and lay them on wire sieves to dry in 
a stove, or neaily cold oven. 

CHERRY PUDDINO. See Puddinga. 

CHERVIL, Is prin<;ipa% used in toups 
and stuffing, and is generally prenehved with 
other herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chen'il, 
beet, purslain, and cucumbers, if in season, 
quantities according to your liking; wash 
them well; mince and press them in your 
hand, to squeeze out all the water. Put 
them into a kettle with water, some butter 
and salt, and boil them until the water is 
entirely consumed. Then take them out, 
and when cold, put them into pots; cover 
them with warmed butter. When you 
want to use these herbs, put them into some 
stock that has very little sah in it. If they 
are required for a &rce or garnish, boil them 
a minute or two in some butter; thicken 
with the yoHu of eggs and milk ; when so 
prepared, thev may be served under hard 
esgs or broiled fish. For sauce, it must be 
chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and 
mixed with melted butter. 

CHESTNUTS, Should be placed on die 
fire in a pan with holes to roast; first slitting 
or cutting a notch in the skins, to prevent 
their dying off. When done, serve them in 
dessert on a napkin, as hot as possible. 
Some boil the chestnuts instead of roasting 
diein, as the skins are then cleaner, but the 
nuts not quite so mealy; the better way 
b to boil them in plenty of water, and 
when nearly done, take them out and roast 



CHICKENS. Having picked die chick- 
em, singe diem weB to remove all the hairs, 
tcc.« which may remain on the skin; then 



bruifle llie b6nfe close to die ibot, aitd drarir 
the strings from the thigh. Take out ^lie 
crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck ; 
then eut off the neck, leaving skin enoug^h to 
turn over the back. Cut off the vent, and 
take oot the inside, bein? careful not to break 
the gall ; break the back-bone and the two 
bones leading to the pinions ; wine tlie chick- 
en with a cloth, and put in a little pepper 
and sah. If the chicken is to be trussed for 
roasting, proceed as follows: — ^Tnm the legs 
close down to the apron and run a ekew&r 
through ; run another skewer in the joint of 
one wing through die body to the other wing ; 
and having washed the liver and gizzard, 
place diem in die pinions. For boilingr, the 
under part of die thigh must be cut, and the 
legs placed under the apron, only Jetting the 
ends be seen. Be sure to piesrarve the breast 
very fiiD. 

CHICKEN BROTH. See Broth. 

CHICKENS, BROILED OR GltlLL- 

ED. Pick and singe them niAly, wadi 
them clean, and dry them in a cloth ; cut them 
down the back, truss die legs and wings, aa 
for boiling; flatten them, and put them upon 
a cold gridiron ; when diey become a little 
dry, put them upon a ,plate, baste them with 
butter, atod strew a litde salt and pepper 
over the inside, which part is laid first upon 
the gridiron ; baste them fi^uentlv, and let 
diem broil slowly for about half an hour. 
Serve them very hot, with melted batter 
poured over them, or plenty of stewed mush- 
rooms. The livers and ?izzards may be 
broiled with them, fastened into the winss^ 
or well seasoned, broiled, and served with 
the chickens. 

CHICKEN BAKED IN RICE. Oit 

a chicken into joints as for a fi-icassee, sea- 
son it well with pepper and sail, lay it into a 
pudding dish lined with slices of bam or ba- 
con, add a pint of veal gravy, and an onion 
finely minced; fill up the dish with boiled 
rice well pressed and piled as high as the 
dish will hold, cover it with a paste of fiour 
and water ; bake it one hour, and before serv- 
ing take off the paste. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (1) Put the 

chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and 
boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one 
twenty minutes. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (2) Whendiey 
are drawn and trussed, lay die chickens in 
skim milk for about two hours; then pat 
them into cold water, cover them close, and 
set them over a slow fire, and skim them 
well. As Soon s£ ihey have boiled sltiwl^, 
take them fiom did fir«, andkit tfaerii veaaaa 



CHI 



49 



CHI 



k tlie water close covered for half an bov; 
linn dnia and serve with vrbile aanoe. 

CHICKEN, BROILED. Splitacouple 
«f diickem, take out the innde and back- 
booei, beat thein with a wooden spoon, dip 
dKm in darified butter, and broil them, the 
ioude next the fire (which should be of 
charcoal), and only turn them to color them. 
When done, pour on them a sauce made as 
fi)Ikw8 :^Boil some stewed mushrooms with 
beef stock and plain saooe, an equal quanti* 
ht^eadi, until of a proper OMuistence; 
Lfor it with lemcm-juioe and Cayenne pep- 
per. 

CHICKENS CHIRINGATE. Having 
takes off the feet, beat the breast bones of 
your chickens fiat witlxiut breaking the skin, 
■ floor and fry them in batter ; when of a nice 
brows take all tbe iaX from the pan, leaving 
is the chickens, over which lay a poood of 
gravy beef cut in ttfin slices, another piece 
cT ixef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, 
pepper, aa onion, a carrot, tfnd a buoch of 
■weet herbs: poor a quart of boiling water 
over the whole, cover it quite close, and let 
it stew; in a quarter of an hour take out 
the chickens, but let tlie gravy continue 
boilipg, and when very rich strain it ; then 
pot it arain into the pan with a little red 
wine and a few mushrooms ; then put in the 
chickens, and when tliey are hot, dish tliem 
^i and pour the sauce over them ; garnish 
with slices of lemoii and Woiled liam. 

CHICKENS CREME. (1) Parboil a 
coaple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, 
Md throw into warm water for half an hour ; 
then do them over the fire in a little fiesli 
batter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morek, 
kc sprinkle widi fiour, and dilute with a 
glass of boiling v^ter ; cover the stewpan 
close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the 
vater has soaked into d)e chicken, tlien add 
balf a pint of cream and a little butter. The 
yolks uf three eggs may be put in also, but 
m that case, a small quantity of verjuice 
''louki be put in before the cream. 

CHICKENS CREME. (2) Stuff and 
roast your chickens, and when you take them 
^ the spit, rvb them with butler, cover 
^^ widi bn^d-crumbs, wrap them in 
''^ of bacon, and bake them a short time ; 
*^^e with well thickened creamnaauce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (I) Re- 
duce two spoonfids of velouU or sauce tour- 
*M) and add to it the yolks of four eggs ; 
pot to this the white meat of a diicken 
*inoed very small, and well mixed with the 
'^, take it out, and roll it into balls about 
the size of a vvainut; roll them ioi hreud- 



then dip them in 
bread them again, 
brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (2) Mix 

wdl into some \'er7 thick beekameiie and 
some gbse the breast of a diicken/ aone 
tongue, truffles and mushrooms all minced 
yerv small; when quite ooM roll them into 
little balls about the siae of a nut, and hav- 
ing beaten up three eggs throw the balls into 
them. Take them out quickly ami roll them 
in bread-crumbs; dip them a second time 
into tlie egss, and cover them again with 
bread-cruoius; fry them as other ero^itflfM. 
Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dish, 
pUice the eroquetttM on, and round it, and 



CHICKEN CURRY. Take the skin 
off, cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in 
curryHiowder and flour (mixed together a 
spoonml of flour to half an ounce of curry) 
fry two or three sliced onions in butter; 
when of a light brown, put in the meat and 
fry them together .till the meat hecomea 
brown ; then stew tliem together with a lit- 
tle water fur two or three hours. More 
water may be added if *oo thick. 

CHICKEN CAPILOTADE. Put into 
a stewpan a little butter and flotu*; add 
mushrooms, parsley, and shalk>tB cut small, 
dilute these with equal quantites of stock, and 
red or white wine. When the sauce is well . 
boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, . 
and put it into" this sauce; stew it gently . 
for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins 
cut in thin slices. 

CHICKEN, COLD FRIED. Cut the 

chicken in quarters, and take off die skin, 
rub it with an egg beaten up, and cover it 
with grated breald seasoned with pepper, 
salt, grated lemon-^ieel, and chopped parsley, 
fry it in butter, thicken a little brown gravy 
wich flour and butter, add a little Cayenne, 
lemon pickle, and muie;hroom catchup. 

CHICKENS FRICASSEED. Prepare 
and cut up two chickens; put them in a 
stewpan with some butter, parsley, a bay- 
leaf, thyine, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, 
and a slice of ham ; lei them stew till scarce- 
ly any sauce remains, then add a little flour, 
warm wat^r, salt and pq>per ; stew it aeain . 
and reduce the sauce. When nearly done 
put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up 
with a little cream or milk ; Uiicken it over 
the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small quan- 
tity of lemon-Jake or vinegar may be added. 
Place the lireasis and bones of the chickens 
on a dish, lay the legs and wings over them» 



CHI 



50 



CHI 



and then pour thej sanoe over tlie whole; 
nrnistv widi the mushrooniB. Take off the 
ttiiw befure you cut up the chickens if you 
wish the fiicaaNe very white. 

CHICKEN FRITTEttS. Make a bit- 
ter with four e^gs, some new milk, and 
rioe-flour ; to thu, add a pint of cream, pow- 
der-sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, 
fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white paits 
of a roasted chicken shred small ; set all 
these together on a stove, and stir well for 
aometime ; wlien done, take it off, roll out 
Che mixture, cnt it into fiitters, and fry 
them; strew sugar on a dish, lay in thie 
Critten, strew sugar over, and serve them 
hot. 

CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a 
chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan 
with a little butter ; add to it some mush- 
rooms, parsley, sprinkle flour over, and 
•hake them ; moisten it with stock or water, 
and white wine ; when it has boiled once, 
take it icom the fire and put in the yolks of 
one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or 
lemon-juice. 

CHICKENS AND OYSTERS. Fill 
your chickens with young oysters cut small, 
truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. 
Blanch about two dozen youn^ oysters, and 
toss tliem up in some melted butter, with 
chopped lierbs and olive oil. When they 
have been on the fire a quarter of an liour, 
add a little white wine and half a glass of 
good stock, thicken it over the fire for an- 
othei* quarter of an horn*, and when the 
diickens are ready to sei've, pour tlie sauce 
on them, and garnish the dish with oysters 
and some lemon. 

CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken 
in a quart <i( water until nearly done ; then 
ikin it, cut off the white meat, and pound 
it with a little of the liquoi* it was boiled in 
to a thick paste ; season it with salt, nut- 
oi^, and leanon-peel ; boil it up all together 
fijr a few minutes. 

CHICKEN AND HAM POTTED. 
Season some pieces of chicken, widi mace, 
cloves, and pepper, and bake tliem for about 
three hours in a close covered pan with 
aome water; then pound them quite small, 
OBoistening either with melted butter, or the 
liquor they were baked in. Pound also 
aome ham, and put this with the chicken in 
alternate layers, in potting pans, press them 
down tight, and cover them with Wter. 

CHICKEN PUIJLED. (1) Half roast 
a chicken or fowl, skin and pull off in small 



legs, break tlie bones, and boil them in a 
little water till the strength be drawn out, 
strain it, and wlien it becomes cold skim 
and put it into a«auce pan with a little mace, 
white pepper, and salt ; add a bit of butter 
mixed with flour, and ratlier mare than a 
quarter of a pint of cream, then pot in the 
meat, and a little musihruom powder; beliMre 
ser\'ing, add the squeeze of a lemon. 

CHICKEN PULLED. (2) Pick all the 
white meat from the bones of a cold roasted 
fowl, cut off tlie 1^, and keep die back and 
sidesmen in one. Score, and season tlie l^;s 
and back widi pepper and salt, and broil 
tliem; warm up the white meat in some 
sauce made of the bones boiled in a little 
water, and which has been strained and 
thickened with a piece of butter, mixed with 
fkMir, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg 
lieaten up und seasoned with white pepper 
and salt; serve the broiled back upon the 
mince, and the legs at each end. 

CHICKEN PIE. SeePU. 

CHICKEN ROASTED. See FawU, 

CHICKENS, SCOTCH WAY. Cot 
your chickens into quarters, pot them into a 
saucepan, with only jiat water enough to 
cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chop- 
ped parsley, and a little mace, cover them 
close down, when it boils, add six ^gs 
well-beaten; when the chickens are done, 
take out the parsley, and serve them in a 
deep dish with the sauce. 

CHICKENS AND TOMATA SAUCE. 
Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, 
salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nut- 
meg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chick- 
ens ; tie it in, and lay thin slices of lemon 
on die breast of the diickens, and lay them 
in a stewpan lined with thin rashere of ba- 
con; cx)ver them with the same, and stew 
them with fire above and bek)w for three 
quarters of an hour; when done, drain them 
in a cloth ; untie them, and serve with Umia- 
ta sauce. 



CHINA CHILO. Minoe a pint I 
of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and 
some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a 
pint of green peas, a teanspoonful of peppo", 
£>ur spoonfuls of water, and two or three 
ounces of clarified butter, into a st.wpaa 
closely covered ; simmer two honra, and srarve 
in die middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If 
Cayenne is approved, add a little. 

CHIU, OR CAYENNE WINE. Pound 

and steep fifty fi'esh red Chilies, or a quar 



iakes all the whitemeatand the meat of the | ter of an ounce of Cayenne pepper, in halt 



CHO 



51 



CHO 



a pint of brandy, \vhite wine, or chret, fiir 
fumteen days. ' This is a ** bonne bouehe" 
i for tlie lovers of Cayenne, of which it takes 
op a larger proportion of its fl:ivor tlmn of 
its fire: wliicli being instandy diflused, it is 
a very useful auxiliary to wann and finish 
soups, sauces, &c. 

CHOCX3LATE. According as you wiali 
to make tliis beverage, eiUier witli milk or 
"vnter, put a cup of. one or otiier of tlicsBe 
liquids into a clioculute-pot, widi one onnce 
of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve 
the chocx>late in a little water before dievput 
it into die milk. As soon as the milk or 
water beo^iiis to boil, mill it. When die 
diocolate is dissolved, and begins to btilibie, 
take it oflf tlie fire, letting it stand near it 
for a quarter of an hour; tlicn mill it again 
to make it fix)diy; afterwards sen'e it out 
In cups. The cliiocolsite must not be milled, 
imless it is prepared widi cream. 

CHOOOLATE CREAM. See Cream. 

CHOCOLATE FROTHED OR WHIP- 
PED. Put half a pound of chocolate to a 
glass of water over a small fire, stirring it 
with a wooden spoon until peifecdy dissolv- 
ed; thoi take it off and atiJ six yolks of 
e^s, a pint of double ct^oin, and three 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar. Pour 
the whole into a pan, and wlien cold, whip 
it up as directed. S££ Cream Frothed. 

CHOCOLATE WINE. Take a pint of 
Sherry, or a pint and a Irnlf uf Port, four 
ounces and a lialf of chocolate, six ounces of 
fine ^ugar, and hnlf an ounce of white starch, 
<H* fine flour; mix, dissolve, and boil all diese 
tngedier ibr about ten or twelve minutes. 
Dut if your chocolate is made widi sugar, 
t^e double tlie quantity of chocolate, and 
half the quantity of sugar. 

CHOPS OR STEAKS, Those who 
are nice about steaks, never attempt to have 
them, except in weatlier which permits the 
meat to be hung till it is tender, and give the 
butcher some days' notice of their wisli for 
diem. If, firiendl^ reader, you wisli to enter- 
tain your mouth with a superlative beef-steak, 
you must have the inside of the sirloin cut 
into steaks. The next best steaks are dioee 
cut from die middle of a rump, that has been 
killed at least four days in moderate weadier, 
and much longer in cold weather, when they 
can be cut about six inches long, four inches 
wide, and half an inch diick: do not beat 
them, which vulgar b'ick bi-eaks the cells in 
which die gravy of die meat is contained, 
and it becomes dry and tasteless. N. B. — 
If your botdier sends steaks which are not 
tender, we do not insist that you should 



object to let him be beaten. Desire llv 
iMtcher to cut diem of even thicknes; if ha 
does not, divide die thicker fimn the diinnv 
pieces, and give them time aooordingly. 

CHOWDER. lAy some slices cot finom 
the fiit part of a belly^pieoe of pork, la • 
deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a 
variety of sweet lierbs, and ky them on llv 
pork. Bone and cut a fiiesli cod into thia 
slices, and place tliein on the pork; theapuH 
a kiyer of pork, on diat a layer of biscuit, 
dien* alternately the odier materials until tha 
pan is nearly fiiU, season with pepper and 
salt, put in about a pint and a half uf %vater, 
by a paste over the whole, cover die stewpan 
very close, and let it stand, with fire lUiofit 
as well as hek>w, for (our houm; then skin 
it well, and not it in a dish, potn* a fffaiss of 
Madeira matle hot over it, also some Jamaica 
pepiier, stewed muslirooins, tniflles, and 
0}-8ters ; liruwn die paste sliglitly, and lay il 
over die whole. 

CHOWDER FOR TEN OR TWELTB. 

Take of sak pork cut in diin slices, as much 
as will make iialf a pint of fat, when tried, 
which will do for two good sized cod or 
haddock. Be careful not to bum die foC. 
First, |xit vour fat in die pot. Secondly, 
cut your fish in as large pieces as will tp 
i?ito die pot ; then put a kiyer of fish on tha 
fat ; pepper, salt and a few cloves, dien a 
layer of the slices of pork, strewed over witb 
onions cut fine ; then a layer of shipbread 
or iKtrd cmckers dipped in water; dien your 
thickening. Go on ugiun with fish, &c. fca. 
as ulxivc, till your pot is nearly full, tlien put 
in water until you can just see it, and let it 
stew slowly, so as not to break the fish. 
After coming to a boil, it will be done in 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. N. B. — Soma 
like potsitoes cut in slKes, which ina^- lie in- 
ti-oduced between eacli layer. Likewisa 
wine or cider, as you fancy. 0C9*Thifl 
Receipt is acc4jrding to die must approved 
method, practised by fishing parties in Boa- 
ton liartxjr* 

CHOWDER, CLAM, May be made in 
tlie same way, sulistitutiug a suffici«it 
qimntity of clams instead of cod, the hnMli 
or hard leadiery part being first cut off 
Many prefer clam chowder, nicely cooked, 
to chowder made of cod, haddock, Sic 
The pilgrims to Plymouth, it is said, could 
cook this shell fish and lobsters in nearly 
fifty different ways, and even as puddings, 
pancakes, &c. 

CHOUX. Put a pint of water- into a 
stewpan, widi half a pound of fi^esh butter, 
die rinds of two lemons grated, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and a very little saU; 



coc 



W 



COD 



w sion as the water beguM to boil, add as 
BQch flour as the liquor will imbibe; wben 
dte paste beooiiies very thick, keep stirring 
with a spooD until quite done, tlien let it 
cool. After lliat, bn^k into it a suiBcient 
number c^eggs to make the paste soft; taking 
care tliat it be 6rm enoueh to alk>w you to 
work it up with the hand ; when it may be 
Jbnned according to fiuicy. This paste may 
I be gkused and gamislied either witbaknonds 
'or pistachio nuts ; wlien baking tlie ekmur, 
.be carefiil to keep tlie oven tightly closed* 

CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil a 
pint of cream, and wlien cokl, mix with it 
two eggs well-beaten; dien boil tliem togeth- 
er until they become a curd. Beat a few 
Uandied aknoods in a mortar, with a littfe 
orange-flower water; put them to the curd, 
and add some Naples bisouits and giieen cit- 
ron, diopped very small. Sweeten, and bake 
in tins. 

CITRON PUDDING. See Puddinga. 

CLARET PUFFS. Mix together, and 
sweeten with poimded loaf sugar, a pint of 
claret, and raUier more tlian one of rich 
cream ; let it stand a night, and tlien wVuak 
it to a froth, wiiicli take off af: it rises, and 
put upon the back of a sieve to drain; heap 
It upon a disli, sweeten some rich cream, 
and pour it ixnmd the froth, to make it float. 

CLOVE, ESSENCE OF. Infuse a 
drachm of oil of cktves in two ounces of 
tlie strongest spirits of wine, apotliecary's 



CLOVE WATER. Mix a little cinna- 
mon with the cloves, or tlie sceiit will be 
too sUxMig ; allow Iiaif a score of cbves to a 
quart of water; put in a good piece of 
sugar; let them infiise some lime over hot 
embers, or iu a warm place; tlien strain it 
for use. 

COBBLER. Name given to bread 
toasted on (me side only. 

COdUNEAL PREPARED. Pound 
an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powdo-, 
pound also an ounce of cream of tartiir, and 
two drachms of alum ; put tliese ingi-ediunts 
into a saucepan with lialf a pint of water ; 
when it boils take il from the fire, and let 
it cool ; pour it oflf into a bottle, as free from 
sediment as possible, and set it by for use. 

COCOA. Put into a saucepan one ounce 
of good cocoa and one quart of water ; cover 
it, and when it boils, set it by die side of Uie 
fire to simmer for two hours. It is some- 
times made in a larger quantity, poured 



from the sedimeBt, and boiled op as it is <«- 
quired. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (1> 
Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it caxefulfy, 
and throw it into cokl water; then grate it, 
and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each 
pound of die cocoa-nut) until quite tliick ; 
stir k frei^uendy to prevent its burning. 
Then pour it on a well buttered dish or mar-> 
ble slab, and cut k into whatever forms yoii 
tiiiok proper. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (2) 

Proceed as above, but do not boil the mtgar 
HO. thick by a great deal; then stir into it 
whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; ibis must 
be served in jelly glasses. 

COD. A cod-fish shook! be firm ami 
white, die gilb red, and the eye Uv^; fi 
fine fish is very thick about the neck ; if tl^ 
flesh is at all flabby k is not etxxl. Cod is 
in iu prime during the monttis of October 
and Novemlier, if tlie weather be coki ; from 
die latter end of March to May, cod is abo 
very fine. Tlie length of time k requires 
for boiling^ depends on die size of the fish, 
which varies fi^>m one pound to twenty ; a 
small fish, nlxxit two or three pounds weight 
will be suiii'ieiitly boiled in a quarter of an 
liour or twenty minutes after die water boils. 
Prepare a cod for dressing in the foHowing 
manner:— empty and wa^ k thoroughlyy 
scrape 00*3)1 the scales, cut open tlie neWy^ 
and wash and diy it well, rub a little salt 
inside, op- lay it for an boui* in strong brine. 
Tlie siu^:b way of dressing it is as foibws :— ^ 
Tic up the head, and put it into a fish-kettlsy 
with plenty of water and saU in it ; boil it 
gently, and serve k with oyster sauce. Lav 
a napkin under the fish, and garnish witn 
slices of lemon, hoi-se-radish, &c. 

COD BAKED. (1) Soak a fine piece 
of tlie middle of fi-esli cod in racked biitter» 
wiUi parsley and sweet lierbs slired very fine; 
let it stand over the fire for sometMoey and 
tlien bake it. I^ k be of a good color. 

COD BAKED. (2) Choose a fine large 
cod, clesm it well, and open die under part 
to the bone, and put in a stuffing made widi 
beef suet, parsley, sweet lierbs slu'ed fine» an 
egg, and seasoned widi salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
mace and grated lemoii-fjeel ; put diis inside 
the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered pa- 
per, and bake it; baste k well wkh meltod 
butter. 

COD, TO CRIMP. Cut a fi«b cod iu- 
to slices or steaks ; lay them for three lioun 
in salt-and-water, aiid a glass of vinegar^ 
when they may be boiieds fraeda or broiled. 



COF 
COD PIE. See Pie. 



63 



COF 



COD SOUNDS. This b the white Am 
of die belly, and is reckoned a great delica- 
cy, and may be either boiled, broiled, or 
fried. PreviouB to dressing eithor way > they 
afaottld be well soaked, wai^ied, and boiled a 
little. 

COD SOUNDS, Boiled with Gra- 
rr. Scald them in hot water, and rub them 
well with salt ; blanch them, that is, take off 
the blacked dirty skin, then set them on in 
cold water, and let them simmer till they 
b^n to be tender ; take them out, flour, and 
broil than on the gridiron. In the mean- 
time, take a little good gravy, a little mus- 
tard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give 
it a boil, season it witli pepper and salt. 
Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the 
sauce over them. 

COD SOUNDS, BROILED. Let them 
lie in boiling water till it is nearly cold, rub 
them widi salt, and pull off the black and 
dirty skin, boil them in hot watef} drain, 
and dust them with flour, rub them over 
with butter, season with white pepper and 
sah, and broil them. Put a tabie.«poonful 
of catchup, half a one of soy, and a little Cay- 
enne, into melted buttar, heat and pour it over 
them. 

COD Sounds, roasted or baked. 

Wash ami clean lour or five cod sounds, and 
boil diem till nearly done in milk-and-water; 
when cold, make a forcemeat of bread 
crumbs; a piece of butter, salt, nutmeg, 
white pepper, and some chopped oysters; 
beat up the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay 
it over the sounds, roll theiu up, and fasten 
with a nnall skewer, baste them witii melted 
butter, and roll them in finely grated bread 
crumlis seasoned with pepper and salt ; put 
them on a tin in a Dutch oven, turn and 
liaste them with a feadier dipped in melted 
butter, and strew over bread crumbs as be- 
fore ; when done, and of a nice brown, 8er%'e 
them with oyster sauce in the dish. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, 
TO Boil.. Wasli it clean ; tie it up, and 
dry it widi a cloth. Allow in die propor- 
tion of every three measures of water, one of 
sah; when it boils take off die scum; put 
in the fisfa, and keep it boiling very fast for 
twenty-flve or thirty minutes. Serve widi 
the roe and milt parboiled, cut into slices, 
and fried, and garnish with curled parsley 
and borae-radiidi. Sauces ;— oyster, melted 
bittter, or anchovy butter. 

COFFEE. The coffee-pot should be 
Aree parts fiiU of boiling water; the ooflbe 



is to be added a spoonfid at a thne, and w«ll 
stirred between each ; then boil gently, stiB 
stirring to prevent the mixture fram boiling 
over as die coffee swells, and to force It into 
combination with the water, thb will be c^ 
fected in a few minutes, after which, the 
most gentle boiling must be kept up duriiMr 
an hour. The coffee mwt then be removea 
from the fire to settle, one or two spoonfiib 
of cold water thrown in assists the clartficft- 
tion, and precipitates the grounds. In about 
an hour, or as soon as the liquor has become 
clear, it b to be poured into another vessel, 
taking care not te disturb the sediment. 
Coffee made in this manner will be d* die 
finest flavor, and may be kept three days 
in summer, and four or five in winter; when 
oi-dered for use, it cmly requires heating in 
the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two 
minutes' notice. Coffee should never be 
roasted bit at the precise time of its being 
used, and then ii should be watched with 
the greatest care, and made of a gold color 
rather than a brown one ; above all, take care 
not to burn it, for a very'few grains burnt 
will be sufficient to communicate a bitter 
and rancid taste to several pounds <j( cofl^. 
It is the best way to roast it in a roaster, 
(over a charcoal fire), which turns with the 
hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which 
often is the case when on a spit before the 
fire. 

COFFEE, French method of 
PREPARING. 1st. Let your coffee be dry, 
not in die least mouldy or damaged. — 2d. 
Divide die quantity that is to be roasted into 
two parts.— -3d. Koost the first part in a 
coffee- roaster, the handle of whicn must be 
kept constantly turning until the coffee be- 
comes tlie color of dried almonds or bread- 
raspings, and has lost one eigiith of it« 
weight. — 4th. Roast the second part imiil 
it assumes the fine brown color of chestnuts, 
and has lost one fifUi of its weight. — 5th. 
Mix die two parts togedier, and grind diem 
in a cofiee mill. — 6lh. Do not roast or make 
your coffee until the day it is wanted. — 7d». 
To two ounces of ground coffee, put four 
cups of cold water. Draw off'diis infiision, 
and put it aside.— 8th. Put to die coflbe 
which remains in die biggin, three cups of 
boiling water, then drain it off and add this 
infusion to that which has been put aside. 
By diis method you obtain three cups more. 
Wlien your coffee is wanted, heat it quickly 
in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let 
it boil, that die perfome may not be kist bv 
undergoing any evaporation. Then pour il 
into cops, which eadi person may sweeten 
according to his taste. Particular cai« 
should be taken not to make coffee in a tin 
vessel ; it should be made either in a China 
1, or one of Delft ware, or in one of 



cpt 



64 



cov 



fihcr. For a long time, the tin biggins, in- 
vented by Monsieur de BeJIoy, were made 
use of; but some person has since improved 
upon his plan, by making them of silver or 
porcelain, wiuch are £>ui]a to he mucli better. 

COFFEE CREAM. (1) Mix three 
(aips of good coffee with one pint of cream, 
9nd sugar according to taste ; boil them to- 
other, and reduce them about one-third ; 
ebserve that the coffee must be done as if it 
was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, 
befiire you mix it with die cream. 

C9FFEE CREAM. (2) BoilacaTs 
ibot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly ; 
clear off the sediment and fat. Make a tea- 
cup of very strong colfee ; clear it with a 
bit of isinglass, to be perfectly briglit; poor 
it to. die jelly, and add a pint of very good 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is 
pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into 
the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. 
Observe that your cofiee be fresh. 



COLLOPS. ail some veal cutlets; fry 
them a good brown, but not too much ; take 
some good gravy, thicken it with a little 
flour, boil it a few minute?^ add Cayenne, 
catchup, tiufSes, morels, salt, mushrooms 
pickled, grated lemon-peel ; simmer this up, 
just heat the collops through, add what gravy 
came from them, but do not let them boil, or 
they will be hard ; add forcemeat balls, hard 
yolk of eggsi lay round^little slices of ba- 
con, notcheid and toasted, and sliced lemon. 

COLLOPS, MINCED. Cut two 
prands of lean tender beef into thin slices — 
It is best taken (com off the rump, or round ; 
mince it very finely ; brown two ounces of 
buttei' in a tiying-pan, dredgiuff it witli a 
little flour, then add the minced meat, and 
keep beatmg it with a beater till of a nice 
brown color. Have ready some highly-sea- 
soned beef ^vy, which,' with the minced 
collops, put mto a saucepan, and let it stew 
half an hour; and just before serving, put a 
table-«poonfiil of mushroom catchup, and, if 
liked, some green pickles. Beef suet is as 
oAen used as butter to fry the collops in. 

COLLOPS, RUSSIAN. Break four eggs 
into a stewpan, and mix with them two 
spoonfiils of flour, then half a glass <^ good 
cream, a spoonfiil of warm butter, and a 
grain of salt ; when these are well mixed to- 
cetber, pour some of it into a large frying-pan, 
4nd fry it of a light cok>r on both sides; 
then take it out, and fry more an the same 
way, like pancakes, until you have a dozen 
very thin, cut each in half, and trim them 
into obknig pieces all the same siie: lay oo 
«B9h MUM q^eneiU, nunoed fowl or game, 



as if for croquettes; wrap the fried 1 
round it, wetting the ed^, that th^ may 
adliere properly, with a little of the batler, 
liaving reserved some for the purpose; then 
have ready beaten, six eggs and a little salts 
mask Uiem wiUi bread-crumbs, fiy them of a 
good color, and serve them quickly. 

COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cat- 
lets (taken Gmsa the fillet) into amalt thin 
pieces,, and fry them in a little boiling Ian) 
till of a li^t brown cok>r. I>rain them diy, 
put Uiem into a stewpan, add cuiiis, slewed 
muslirooms, some blanched truffles, morels^ 
pieces of artichoke bottoms, some slices of 
throat sweetbreads, and ck balk. Let 
Uiem simmer over a slow me till tender , 
season to the palate, and serve them with 
rashers of broiled bacon round them. 

COLD MEAT BROILED, WITH 
Poached Eqgs. The inside of a sirloio 
of beef is best for this disli, cm* a leg of laiit- 
ton. Cut the slices of even and equal thick* 
ness, and broil and brown them carefrill^ 
and slightly over a clear smart fii-e, or in a 
Dutch oven ; give Uiose slices most fire that 
are least done ; lay them in a dish before the 
fire to keep hot, while you poach the eggs, 
and mash potatoes. 

COLORING FOR JELLIED, Cakes, 
&c. For a beautifiil red, boil fifieen grains 
of cochineal in the finest powder, with a 
drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in 
half a pint of water very sbwlv, half an 
hour. Add, in boiUng, a bit o^ alum the 
size ofa pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and 
some liquor poured over. For toAt^e, use 
almonds finely powdered with a little drop 
of water; or use cream. For ye//o«e, yoHu 
of eg^, or a bit of saffron steeped in the li- 
quor, and squeezed. F<x> green, pound 
i^inach-leaves, or beet-leaves, express the 
juice, and boil a tea-cupfid in a sauc^nn 
of water, to take off the 1 



CONSOMME. Take eisfat «r ten 
pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two 
young ones, and four knuckles of veal ; put 
these into a large pot, and fiH it with etrong 
broth; skim it wcdl, cooling it three or lour 
times to make the scum rise, afto* which lei 
it boil gently; put into the pot carrots, tar- 
nips, onicNDs, and three cloves. When yoor 
meat is sufficiently done, pass the liquor 
through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it 
may be very clear. No salt need be put in 
if strong broth be used. 

<X)UGLAUFFLE, GERMAN. J^ 
three pounds of flour, an ounce and a hM 
of yeast, an ounce of fine sak, a qo^rlBr ^f a 
pound of sugar, twelve ^ggi^ tbq joM «f 



con 



M 



CRA 



lMlf6 moiVy two poonds oi fiwh DuUer) 
duree glasses of milk, and a quarter of a 
pound of sweet almonds. Proceed with 
Ifaese materials in the followiog manner :-> 
pat the butter (having slightly wanned half 
a pouad of it), into a glaaed pan, and with 
a cuge wooden qxwn work it iq) for six or 
seven minutes; then put in two whole egss, 
•nd stir it two minutes; then add three yolss, 
and stir again two minutes; in this manner 
pot in the whole number of eggs and yolks; 
which will prodooe a kind of smooth cream. 
Then by degrees mii^ in two pounds cf the 
Ant, diasoive the yeast in a ^bss of warm 
fulk, strain it throu^ a oapkm, stir this in 
weD, with another half pound of flour; 
make a hollow in the paste, in which pot 
the nk and sugar in powder; afterwards 
pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the 
whole together with the remainder of the 
floor; continae to work it up for some min- 
vles after the vrhole ingredients are put in, 
adding a small quantity of warm milk, which 
win render it smooth. Have a mookl ready, 
batter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each 
cut in half, over the bottom of the mould, in 
fcrms, on which pour the paste carefiilly, 
and in small quantities, so as not V> derange 
the almonds. Place your mould in a warm, 
hot not a hot phce, that the cake may rise 
properly; and when that operation has taken 
piaoe, put it into a moderate oven, which 
should be kept closed; in an hoar's time 
look at the CaugUmffie, and if it be flexible, 
and vX a light color, let it remain thirty or 
forty minutes lonser; but if it be Arm and 
red it is sufficiently done ; when taken from 
the mould, put it mto the oven again for a 
few minutes. 

O0UGLAUFFLES, SMALL. To 
make a doaen small eougtaufflet, take three 
quarters of a pound of floor, three drachms 
of yeast, two of salt, two whole eg^, three 
yoUu, two ounces of sugar, a littfe cream, 
and lalf a pound of butter. The prepara- 
tion is mode the same as the German Cott- 
gloa^le. When the paste is made, divide 
it into twelve eqoal parts ; butter a dozen 
small biscuit moulds, and fill each with your 
preparatioo, and let them stand: when risen 
so as to fill the modds, pot thorn into a 
brisk oven, and take them out as soon as 
diey are of a light color. 

GOUQUES. Put into a saucepan the 
fdka of sixteen «ggs, the rinds of two lem- 
ons, half an ounce of sah, and two ounces 
ef sugar; on these pour a pint of boiling 
cream, stirring it quick ; «et it on the fire, 
bat do not let it boil, strain it through a 
Mtmg, and tben let it cool; take two 
pooodt of flour, and make a qouter of it 



into leaven with half an onnee of yeial md 
a little warm %vater, kei^ it mtlier moist« 
and put it into a warm place to rise: in thp 
meantime, make the remainder of tiie flow 
into a paste, with the cream and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, knead it up 6ve or six 
times; then put in the leaven, and knead it 
again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and 
set it in a warm place. In about two hours 
take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the 
sixe c^ an egg, form them to that shape, and 
lay them on a baking tin, and feave tbtm 
for half an hour to rise, then gild and 
bake them in a hot oven ; when dm, open 
each on one side, take out a little of the 
crumb, in the place of whiph put a bit of 
butter worked up with a littis anh, and 



COURT BOUILLON. Cbt a proper 
quantity of carmts, onions, odery, ana tur- 
nips, and put them into a sauoepaa with 
butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a 
mifnonette and cloves ; svraat them over a 
gentle fire; add white wine, vinrgar or 
* it, and m 



verjuice ; boil, and then strain i 

it with wimtever you may require it for. 

It is generally used for fish. 

COURT BOUILLON for am. 
SORTS or Fresh Water Fish. Pot 
some water into a fish-kettle, with a quart 
of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, 
a large bunch of parsley and yuung onions, a 
ckive of garlic, thyme, bay-loives, and liasil 
all tied together, son^ sliced onions and 
some carrots; boil the fish in this amri 
bouillon, (which will serve for several tunes) 
and do not scale it ; when tlie fish will ad- 
mit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a 
napkin, which makes it more easy to take 
out without danger of breaking. 

COW-HEEL, In the hands of a skiHul 
cook, will fiimish several good meals; when 
boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, 
e^9 and bread-crumb them, and fry them a 
H^t brown ; lay them round a dish, and put 
in the middle of it sliced onions fi-ied, or the 
accompaniments -ordered for tripe. The 
liquor they were boiled in will make 
soups. 

CRACKNELS. Mix a quart of flour, 
half a wtmeg grated, tlie yolks of four^ggs 
beaten, with four spoonfols of rosewater, into 
a stiff* paste, with cold water ; then rub in a 
pound of butter, wid make into a cracknel 
shape; put theip into a kettle of boiling 
water, and boil them till they swim ; then 
take them out, and put them into ooM water ; 
when hardened , lay diem out to dry, and 
bnke themontin 



^y thei 
plates. 



CRfi 



56 



CRfi 



CRACKNELS, small soft. Blanch 
half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound 
them to a fine paste, adding to them t^ de- 
grees six eggs ; when thoroughly pounded ^ 
pour on them a pound of powder-sugar, the 
same of butter, and the rinds of two lemons 
grated; beat up these ingredients in tlie 
DKHtar: put a pound of flour on a slab, and 
having poured the almond paste on it, knead 
them together until they are well incorporat- 
ed ; roll it oat, and cut Che cracknels into 
such forms as you may think proper, rub 
them with yolk of ^g, and strew over them 
powder-sugar or cinnamon: then lay them 
on a buttered tin, and bake them in a mode- 
rate oven, taking great care that they do not 
bum. Wlien (u>neypiit them into glasses, 
and if preserved in a dry place they are the 
better for keeping. 

CRANBEREUES, Differ knt ways 
OF DRESSING. FcT pies and puddings, 
with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a 
jar, with the same ; this way they eat well 
with bread, and are very wbok»ome. Thus 
done, pressed* and strained, the juice makes 
a fine drink for people in fevers. 

CREAM, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound to a paste, with rose water, six 
ounces of almonds, mix them with u pint 
and a half of cream which has been boiled 
with the peel of a small lemon ; add two 
well-beaten eggs, and stir the whole over 
the fire till it be tliick, taking care not to 
aUow it to boil ; sweeten it, and when near- 
ly coM, stir in a tablenspoonful of orange- 
nower or rose water. 

CREAM, APPLE. (1) Boil twelve 
large apples in water till soft, take off the 
peel, and press tlie pulp through a hair sieve 
upon half a pound of potmded loaf sugar ; 
whip the whites of two eggs, add them to 
the apples, and beat all together till it be- 
comes very stiif, and looLs quite white. 
Serve it heaped up on a dish. 

CREAM, APPLE. (2) Peel and core 
five large apples; boil them in a little water, 
till soft enough to presis tlirough a sieve; 
sweeten, and beat with them the whisked 
whites of five eggs. Serve it with cream 
poured round it. 

CREAM, ARROW-ROOT. Mix a ta- 
ble-spoonful of aiTow-root with a tea-cupful 
of cold water ; let it settle, and pour the wa- 
ter off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk 
with the peel of a lemon and some cinnamon ; 
pick tliem out, and pour it boiling upon the 
arrow-root, stirring it well and fi-equently 
till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china 
dish, with or without grated nutmeg oo the 



top. It may be eaten with any 
fruit, or fruit tarts. ' 



CREAM, BACCHIC. Put a pint and a 
half of white wine, with some kmon-peel, 
coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three 
ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and let 
tliem boil a quarter of an hour; then mix 
half a tea-spoonful of flour with the yolks of 
six ^gs in another stewpan, and stir in bj 
degrees the other previous^ boiled ingre- 
dients. When about half coM, strain the 
whole through a sieve and put it in a dish 
in hot water, over the fire, till the cream is 
set ; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool 
place till ready to serve. 

CREAM, BARLEY. Boil a small quan- 
tity of peai'l barley in milk and water, till 
tender, strain off the Ik^uor, and pot tlie 
barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. 
Then take the whites of five eggs and the 
yolk of one, beat them with one spoooAiI of 
flour, and two of orangc-flowei* water. Take 
the cream from the &-e, mi^ the eggs in by 
de^'ees, and set it over the fire again to 
thicken. Sweeten it, and poor into cups or 
for use. 



CREAM, BURNT. Boila pint of cream 
with the peel i^ a lemon, sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar ; beat, with tlie yolks of 
six, and whites of four eggs, one table-spoon- 
ful of flour, the same of orange-flowor water 
and of ratafia ; strain the cream, and whea 
nearly cold, mix it witii the eggs and other 
things ; stir it over the fire till it becomes aa 
thick as a custard ; put it into the disli it is 
to be served in. Boil with a little water 
some pounded loaf sugar, till it turn brown, 
but do not. stir it till taken oflf the fire; by 
degrees pour it in figures over the top of tlie 
cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. 

CREAM CAKES. See Cakes. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (1) Take 
a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the yolka of 
tlii'ee eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar, 
mix tliese in^^redients together, set them on 
the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till 
reduced to a quarter ; then add two ounoes 
of grated chocolate ; and having boiled a lit. 
tie longer, strain it, and let it coul. Serve 
it cold. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (2) Take 
about half a cake of cFiocolate, bruise it U» 
pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milky 
and stir it over a gentle fire till it kioka 
smooth and thick; then add a little more 
milk, and stir it again over the fire; ocai- 
tinue this till it takes the thickness of cream; 



CRB 



57 



cut 



mmetam n to your pakte wilb ehrifiad n- 
or; atir in a UttJe Uuok cream wi&h a v«fy 
tattle iain^baB, rub it through the t»iBniy, 
and aet it ID the mould. 

CREAM CUSTARD. Ste CuMiat^, 

CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a handful 
of floor, with three whole eggs, and the yolka 
of dx, four pounded macaroona, aome dried 
orai^^^lowerv, browned in auffar, a little 
candied lemon-peel chopped Tery fine, half 
^pint of cream, half a pmt of inilk, and a 
lamp of augar; boil the whole over a gentle 
fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream 
mma to a thick paste; then let it cool in a 
dish wdl floiuned, shaking flour all over it. 
When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, 
roll them in your hands till. they become 
nanid, and firy them of a good cok>r; when 
yon serve them, powder them all over with 



CREAM FROTH. Put a pint of fierii 
doable cream into a stone pan, with half a 
pomd of powder augar, a pinch of gum 
dragon, a little crisped orange-flower, and 
three drops of cedratesaeuce; wlien the su- 
gar is dissolved, place the pan in another, in 
which is three pounds of ice beaten up with 
saltpetre; whip the cream in the usual man- 
ner, taking on the froth as it rises with a 
dcimmer, lay it gently on a sieve over a 
pan; if the cream does not froth properly, 
add the whites of two e^n. This cream is 
osually served in large silvar or gilt goblets, 
and should be prepouied two or three hours 
Lehjre it is wanted. 

CREAM FOR FRUIT TARTS. Boil 
a stick of cinnamon, two or three peach 
leaves, or a few bruised bitter almonds, in a 
quart of milk ; strain, sweeten, and mix it, 
when cool, with three or four weH-beaten 
egga; stir it constantly over the fire till it 
thidcens. It may be eaten with stewed 
apples, prunes, damsons, or any other fiiiit. 

CREAM, IMPERIAL. Boil a quart of 
cream with the tliin rind of a lemon ; tlien 
stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a 
dish or bowl diat you are to serve in, 
tlie jnice of three lemons strained, witli as 
much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which 
pour into the dish from a large tekpot, hold- 
ing it high, and moving it al»ut ta mix with 
the juice. It shouU be made at least six 
hours before it is served, and will be still 
better if a day. 

CREAM ITAUAN. (1) Boil a pint and 
a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it 
the peel of a voong lemon, some coriander 
«ea, a bit or cinnaoion^ raUiei* more than 



hatfa qoartor oTm poHad of aiigar, and im9 

or three craios of saU; let it boil till half m 
consumed; then let it ilMid Id odoI, Md 
liave ready in another stewpan a little floir, 
beat up with the yolks of six i^; stir it 
by degrees into the cream; strain it ihroiMii 
a sieve, aod put it in the ilidk for table, 
pfactng the diah in some hat water over iha 
tire till the cream is set. Btfon lerviaf » 
brown with a i ' 



CREAM ITAUAN. (2) Put a giHof 
good fresh cream, two tgp, thne sprwafiib 
of powder-sugar, and a little orange-flower 
water, into a pan, and whip them up logath- 
er; and when the cream is suflkientlythiok, 
pot it into a deep dish, with pleaty of posr* 
der-sugar; set it oo hat ndm, cover it, aofl 
by hot ashes on the top, which nam ha 
rene%ved until the cream is dam eaaiigb; 
then let it cool, and serve it. 

CREAM, LEMON. Steep the thinly, 
pared rinds of four large ieomns in a pint of 
water for twelve honn; stmin, aad disinlaa 
in it three-<{uartar8 of a pound of fina kiaf 
sugar, add the juice of the lemons straineay 
and the well-beaten whites of aeyeo,ai|d tha 
yolk of one egg. Boil it over a sbw fire, 
stirring it constantly one way, till it is lifcia 
a thick cream; pour it into a gbss or chiaa 
dish. 

CREAM, ORANGE. <I) Squeesaand 
strain tlie juice of eleven oranges, sweeten 
it well with pounded loaf sugar, siir it over 
a sfow fire till the sugar be dissolved, an4 
take ofi* the scum as it rises; when coid, 
mix it with the well-beaten yolks of twelva 
eg!>B, to which a pint of cream has beca 
added ; stir it again over the fire till thick. 
Serve in a glass dish or custard-cups. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (2) Sweetea, 

with pounded loaf sugar, a quart cf good 
cream; mix witli it a small wine.fftot» of 
(Nrange-flower water, the grated rind and 
the juice of a Seville orange; whisk it tiU 
quite thick ; soak sonae macaroons in white 
wine, and pile them in the middle of a ghuy 
or china dish, and heap tlie whipped cream 
over tliem as hig^i as pnmible. Some hours 
ufler, ornament it witli slices of vreen citron 
cut into straws, and stuck int j the cream. 

CREAM, RATAFIA. In a tea-cupfol 
of tliin cream boil two or tliree large laurel, 
or young peach leaves; wlien it has boiled 
three or four minutes, strain, and mix with 
it a pint of rich sweet cream ; add three well- 
beaten whites of eg,rs, and sweeten it with 
pounded loaf siiffar. Put it into a sanoepan, 
and stir it ^nUy one way over a 8k»w fire 
till it be thick ; pour it wto a china dish. 



CR£ 



58 



CUE 



Uid mihBgi quite cold, omaiAeiit it with sweet- 
Aeate cut out like flowers; or strew over 
dw top hariequin comfits. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (1) Mix a 
little pounded loaf sugnr with a pint and a 
half of good cream, ahoat a tea-cupful of 
raspberry jelly, the grated rind of one, and 
the juice of lialf a lemon; beat it well to- 
gether, and, with a syllabub mill, mill it 
slowly lor lialf an hour, or till it be tliick and 
•olid. Put it into a gbss dish, or serve it in 
custard glasses. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (2) Put six 
ounces of napberry jam to a quart of cream, 
pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the 
juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and 
whisk it till tliick. Serve it in a dish or 
l^lasses. Strawberry cream may be made 
in the same way. For common use, substi- 
tute good milk for the cream. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (1) Pick 
the currants from the stalks, put them into a 
jar closely covered, and stand it in a pan 
of cold wato* ; let it boil for two hours, strain 
the juice throusfa a sieve, and sweeten it 
well with pouncted loaf sugar. When cold, 
add a quart of cream to a pint of juice, and 
beat it witii a whisk till thick. Serve in a 
deep gbss dish. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (2) 
Squeeze three4|uarters of a pint of juice 
from red currants when full ripe, add to it 
rather more than a quarter of a poimd of 
pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon ; stir it into a pint and a ^f of cream, 
and whisk it till quite thick. 

CREAM ROSEAT. Beat to a stiff 
froth, the whites (^ four effgs; sweeten and 
bull a pint of good milk, drop about three 
table-spoonfuls of the froth into ir, turn it 
over once or twice with the spoon, take it 
out, and put it upon the back of a lawn sieve 
placed over a larae plate; repeat tliis till it 
18 all done; add to the milk another half 
pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it 
with the beaten yolks of the eggs; stir it 
over the fire till thick ; put it into a basin, 
and stir now and then till nearly cold ; add 
a table-spoonful of rose water, and one of 
brandy. Serve it in a glass dish, and lay 
the whites of the eggs over the top at equal 
distances. Cut citron and candied orange- 
peel into straws, and put them over the 
whites of the eggs, or strew over them coloi^ 
ed comfits, 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP, Mix one 
or two table-spoonfols of sifted flour of rice 
with a little good stock, rather cold than 



hot; add this to some boiling stoek, wad 
keep stirring till it boils; and fet it boil tiH 
snfiiciently Uiick. The flour of rice may be 
made as follows: — ^Wash in several waten 
a pound of rice ; wipe it in a clean towel, 
anid when peifectly dry potmd and sift it 
through a sieve. 

CREAM, SNOW. Takeapintoffi«k 
cream, and mix with it eight spooofids of 
powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, and 
a spoonful of orange-flower water, or any 
other aromatic ingredient you like better; 
whip it, and remove the froth or snow in 
the usual way. This cream may be colored 
according to your fancy, with saflfrpn, car- 
mine, or indigo. 

CREAM, SOLID. Squeeze the juioe 
of a large lemon upon three or four tabhs- 
spounfols of poimded loaf susar, add two 
table-spoonfuls of brandy, and one pint of 
cream ; pour it from one cup into aoother, 
till it be sufficiently thick. 

CREAM, SPANISH. Boil, in half a 
pint of water, half an ounce of tsinglass, tiD 
dissolved ; strain, and mix it with a quart 
of cream or good milk ; if cream, not so 
much isinglass; stir it over the fire till it 
come to a boil ; when a little cooled, add 
gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, and a 
glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep 
dish, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, stir 
it till cold, and then put it into a shape. 

CREAM, STONE. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of lemon-juioe, and the grated pad 
of one, some preserved apricots, or any other 
sweetmeat, into a glass or Oiina dish. Boil 
a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a tittle 
water, till dissolved ; add it to a pint of cream, 
sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar; 
boil it, and stir it all the time ; pour it into 
a jug, stir it now and then till milk- warm, 
then pour it over the sweetmeat round and 
round. It may be made the day before 
being sa'ved. 

CREAM, SWISS. (1) Boil the grated 
peel of a large lemon, and three-quarters of 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, in a pint of 
cream ; squeeze the juice of the lemon upon 
a tabk»-8poonfol of twur, work it well togeth- 
er, and gradually add to it the boiling cream, 
and heat it all over the fire ; pour it i to a 
basin, and when nearly cold, put it into a 
glass or China dish, and garnish it with 
candied orange-peel, and citron cut into 
straws. This cream requires to be constant- 
ly stirred till it is put into the dish in which 
it is to be served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (2) Whiak vpm 



CRO 59 

ahot plare, the yolks of eight egga^ hnU a 
powxi of fiiiely^pounded augar, Uie n^ted 
riad of a lemon, and half a pint of liglit 
Freocb or Rlieoub white wine, and send it 
warm to cable. 

CREAM TART. See Tart. 

CREAM, WHIPPED. Sweeten, with 
poanded loaf sugar, a quart of cream, and 
add to it a lump of Biuar which has been 
robbed upon the peel of two fine lemons or 
bitter oranges; or flavor it with orange- 
flower water, a little oaaenoe of roses, Uie 
JHice of ripe strawberries, or of any other 
fruit. Whiak the cream well in a laree pan, 
and as the fix>tb rises, take it off, and lay it 
upon a sieve placed over anothor pan, and 
return the cream which drains frran tlie froth, 
till all is whisked, tlien lieap it upon a dish, 
or pot it into glasses. Garnish with tliinly- 
I pared citron, or cedi'at cut into small leaves, 
or into any fiuiciful shape. To coUm* the 
rose cream, or to lieigfaten that of strawber- 
ry, a little carmine or lake may be mixed 
with the cream, which may be iced wlien 



CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (1) Rub, 
with some lumps of kxif sugar, the rinds of 
six lemona, and grate off the remainder; 
■jueeze and strain tlie juice, and add the 
grated peel and sugar, with three^iuatters 
of a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; put to this 
a qoart of rich cream, and whisk it till very 
diick. Tile folbwin^ day, soak five or six 

ge biscuits in white wine, and put over 

I the 



CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (2) Boil 
the thin peel of two lemons in a pint of 
cream ; strain, and thicken it witli tlie well- 
beaten yolks of three, and whites of four 
eggs ; sweeten it with pounded loaf su^ar, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put it into 



CROdUANTE OF PASTE. Rollout 
paste, about the eighth of an inch thick; 
rub over a plain moukl with a little fresh 
butter; lay on the paste very even, and 
equally thin on both sides; pare it round Uie 
rim; then with a small penknife cut out 
smaU pieces, as fiincy may direct, such as 
diamonds, stars, circles, sprigs, &c. ; or use 
a small tin aitter of any shape: fet it lie to 
dry sometime, and bake it a few minutes in 
a slack oven, of a liglit cobr: remove it 
from the mould, and place it over a tart, or 
may other dish of small pastry. 

CROQUE. These are large pieces of 
ornamental confectionary, fora^ of various 
■naterials, as gimbtettes, croquignoUefgen- 



CRU 



oiu$, ^, or of oranges, ooft into qontan, 
chestnuto, green mito, ttc, arranged with- 
in mouUs aooordinff to fancy, and 
together with boiled 



CROQUETS. Poind, in a 
mortar, cold veal and fowl, with a little suec« 
some cliopped lemon-peel, lemon tliyme, 
chives, ana parsley. Season with nuboeg, 
pepper, and salt; mix all well together, ami 
add tlie yolk of an egg well-beaten ; roll it 
into balls, and dip tliem into an egg beoiea 
up, tlien sifl bread crumbs over tbni, and 
fry them in butter. 

CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. 
Mince smne boiled meat veiy small ; add to 



crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and sweat 
lierbs; make them into a paste, and fbrm k 
into little balls; roll tliem in very fine rasp- 
ings, and fry them of a nice color. Serve 
them with sauce piquanU. 

CROQUETS OF SWEETBREADS. 
Mince some oekl sweetbreads, which have 
been dressed, and boil them in a sauce vie- 
loute ; when quite ooM, fi>rm them into balls, 
or into rolls, about two inches long; fry and 
serve tliem with firied parsley in tlie middle. 
Or, make the croouet meat into a rissole. 
Roll out a piece or thin puff paste, enckise 
the meat in it, brush it over witli a beaten 
egg, and strew over it grated bread ; fry it 
of a light brown color. 

CRUMPETS. (1) Make a pint of 
warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, 
strained into a strong batter, with a sufficient 
quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a 
warm phice to rise; tlien add a quarter of 
a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter 
worked up in a little flour, but only fkMir 
enougli to. prevent the batter firom being too 
tliin ; in a quarter of an hour have the iron 
rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; 
pour the oMer into these rings, and bake 



CRUMPETS, OR PIKELETS. (2) 

Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that 
half milk and half water must be used; and 
to every half-quartern of flour, two eggs 
most be added; beat the eggs thoroughly. 
Bake them in rings as usual. 

CRUST, FOR VENISON PASTY, 

Work into a paste with warm water, twO 
pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine 
flour, and four eggs; work it smootli, and 
to a good consistence. Tlie paste slioiild be 
put round the inside, but not at the bottom 
of tlie diiih ; let tiie cover be tolerably tliick« 
to bear tlie long continuance in the oven. 



owe 



m 



CCL 



CRUST, RAISED. (1) Mdf, in ante 
pint of watPT, one pound of fresb lard ; weigh 
four pounds of flour, put it into a basin, and 
wlien tiie water and brd M hot, widi a horn 
spoon stir it by degrees among»c die flour. 
Wli^ well mixed, work it with tlie hands 
till it is a stiff paste, wlitift it is fit for use. 

CRUST, RAISED. (2> Put into a 
■Auoepan one pint and a haM* of water, four 
pdunds of flour, and four ounces and a lialf 
of butter; stir it till it is a thick paste, take 
if out, and add the yolks of tluee or four 
beaten eggs; work it well together, roll it 
out ratiier more tlian half an inch diick ; 
cut out tlie top and liottom, and a long piece 
of proper deptli for die sides. Brush rotuid 
the bottom widi well-beaten whites of eggs; 
set on the sides, keeping die paste rather 
within die edge of die bottom ; pinch it all 
round, to make the pieces adhere, then fill 
this pie, and Imisk round the upper sides of 
tlie crust and die ou'ter edges of die cover 
with egg ; lay on die coyer, pinch it round 
neatly, and ornament it according to fancy 
with leates, festoons, or chains of rings 
made of the paste. 

CRUST SHORT. (1) Pound, sifl, 
and dry two ounces of white sngar ; then 
mix if widi a pound of well dried Hour, rub- 
bing into it, so fine as not to be seen, diree 
ounces of iHitter; then put the yolks of two 
eggs into some cream, and mix die wliole 
into a smoodi paste; roll it out diin, and- 
bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST SHORT, not sweet, but 
RICH. (2) Mix into a sdffish paste, us- 
ing as little water as possible, six ounces of 
butler, widi eiglit ounces -of fine flour, (rub- 
bing die butter well into die flour, before 
mixing it widi the water) beat it well, and 
iioll it diin. This crust is proper as well as 
the above, for tarts of fi^h or preserx-ed 
fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. 

CUCUMBERS STEWED. Peel and 
cat cucumbers in quarters, take out die seeds, 
and lay tliem on a clodi to drain off die wa- 
ter: when they are dry, flour and fry them 
in fresh butter; let the butter be quite hot 
before you put in the cncumbetv ; fry them 
till tliey are brown, then take them out widi 
an egg-slice, and lay them on a sie>'e to 
drain die fiit firom diem (some cooks fry 
sliced onions, or some small button onions, 
with them, till diey are a delicate light 
brown cofur, drain them from die fiit, and 
dien put diem into a stewpan with as much 
gravy as will co\'er diem): stew- slowly till 
Uiey are tender; take out die cucmnbers 
widi a slice, diieken die gravy with ftow- 
and butter, give it a boil up, seasun it widi 



pbpper aAd slilt, and put in the mft i uA gif, 
af( soon as they are warm, they are reidly; 
Tlie above, rubbed through a tamis, or m 
sieve> will bis entitled to be called " cucam- 
ber sauce." See Cucumber Vinegar. Tlui 
is a very fovorite sauce with bmb or muttoo- 
cutletSy stewed rump-steaks, &c. £tc.: when 
made for the latter, a diird part of slicod 
onion is sometimes fried with the cucumbd. 

CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS, 8LIC 

ED. Oit full-grown cucmnbers into slioa 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and slice 
some onions thin *, then lay diem into a dish 
togedier, and strew salt over diem; cover 
diem widi another dish, and let tliem re- 
main for twenty-four hours. Put then in- 
to a cullender to drain, dien into a large jtf , 
and poor over them boiled vinegar, three 
successive days; the last time of boiling the 
vinegar add pepper and ginger, pour it oier 
diem hot, and ckwely cover them when oold. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES. Ciitakng 
naiTow piece out of die sides of laree Tur- 
key encumbers, scoop out the seeds, and 
with a part of diem mix some mmlBrd seed, 
slired garlic, and grated horse-radish ; stnff 
die space as full as it will admit of, and re- 
place die piece which was cut ofT; biod 
diiem with a thread; put ova* them hot 
vinegar three successive days, and boil with 
it t& hist time pepper, flour of mnstard, 
and some salt; put them into jars, and poor 
over them the boiling vinegar, and when 
cold, cover diem closeTy. 

CULLIS. (1) Toafputofgravy,prta 
tablcHspoonful of diickening, or from one to 
two table-spoonfuls of flour, according to 
die thickness you wish the gravy to be, mto 
a basin, with a ladleful of die gravy; rtir it 
quick ; add the rest by degrees, till it is aD 
well mixed ; then pour it back into a stew- 
pan, and leave it by die side of the fire to 
simmer for half an hour longer, that die 
diickening may dioroughljr incorporate widi 
the gravy, die stewpan being only half cov- 
ered, stirring it ev«ry now luid then; a sort 
of scum will gather on the top, which it a 
best not to take off till you are read^ to 
strain it dirough a tamis. Take care it « 
neither of tdo pale nor too dark a color; if 
it is not thick enough, let it stew longer, tiD 
it is reduced to the desbed dikkness; or 
add a bit of glaae, or portable soup to i^ 
if it is too direk, you can easily thm it will 
a spoonful or two of warm lMx>th, or water 
When your sauce is done, stir it in the,**" 
sill you put it into onoe or twice, while it ■ 
cooling. 

CULLIS. (2) Ijiy over the botlttiirfj 
stewpan as mifSU'ledU ven^ atf wiH oow 



CUR 



it to inch thick ; then cover the twI with 
I lOBie slices of undreaBed bacon (gaaimoD u 
(he best), three onions, three liay leaves, 
some sweet berfati, two blades of mace, aiid 
three clo\'es. Put on the lid of the stewpan, 
aad set it over a slow fire ; but wtien tlie 
juices come out, let tlie fire be a little (|uirk- 
cr. When the meal is of a nice brown col- 
or, fill the stewpan witii good beef broth, 
boil and skim it, then let it simmer for an 
how; add a little water mixed witli as 
fflocb fkMir as will make it properiv thick ; 
boil it liaif an hcMir, and stram it. You 
may keep this cullis a week. 

CULLIS, A FAMILY ONE. Rofl a 
piece of butter in flour, and slir it in a stew- 
pan till the flour is of a fine yellow cok>r. 
Tlien put in some thin broth : a little gravy, 
a glass of wliite witie, a bundle of sweet 
herbs, two cloves, a little nutm^ or mace, a 
few mushrooms, pepper and salt. Let it 
stew an hour over a shtw fire, tlien skim all 
the fat clean ofi*, and strain it through a 



CULLIS, WHITE. Take a piece of 
wal, cut it into small bits, with some thin 
slices uf iKun, and two onions, each cut into 
four; moiFten it witli broth, seasoned with 
muslirooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, 
three cbves, and so let it stew. Being 
stewett, take out die meat and roots with a 
ikijuuiar, put in a few crumbs d* bread, and 
let it stew softly; take the white of a fowl, 
or two chicketis, and- put it into a inortar ; 
being well pounded, mix it in tlie cullis, but 
it must not boil, and the cullis must be very 
white; but if nut white enough, pound two 
dozen of sweet almonds bbncTied, and put it 
ioto the cullis ; then boil a glass of milk, and 
add it to die cullis; let it be of a good fla- 
vor, and strain it off; then put it int(» a 
small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be 
oaed ftH* white loaves, crust of white bread, 
and biscuits. 

CURACOA. Put five ounces of thin- 
cot Seville orange-peel, Uiat lias been dried 
and poimdtxl, or, which is still better, of 
the fresh peel of a ftesli shaddock, which 
may be Ixniglit at die orange and lemon 
ihops in die beginning of March, into a 
qiart of the finest and clesinest rectified 
Bfmt; after it lias been infused a fortnight, 
■train it, and add a quart of sirup and filter. 
See the following receipt. 

CURACOA; how to make a 
(lUABT. To a pint of die cleanest and 
strongest rectified spirit, add two drachms 
and u hidf of the Hweet oil of orange-|)eel ; 
ihake it up: dissolve a poiirul of gu(Ml hnnp 
■Igar in a pint of cold water; make this in- 
6 



61 CUR 

to a clarified simp, which add to ibm 
spirit: sjiake it up, and let it stand till tht 
fuJk>wing day: then line a fimnel with % 
piece of muslin, and that with filtering- 
paper, and filter it two or Uiree times till it 
is quite briglit. This liquor is an admira- 
ble cordial ; and a tea-spoonful in a tumbler 
of water is a very refreshing suronier drink^ 
and a great improvement to punch. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (1) With 
about lialf a table-spoonfid of rennet, turn 
two quarts of milk just from the cx>w ; drain 
off the whey, and fill a modd with Uie curd ; 
when it has stood an liour or two, turn it 
out. Strew cok>red comfits over it, suveeten 
some cream, mix grated mttneg with it, 
and pour it round the curd. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (2) Put two 
quarts of new milk into die dish in which it 
i» to be eer^'ed, and turn it with a tea-«pooD« 
ful of rennet ; when the curd lias come, serv^ 
it with cream in a separate dish. 

CURRANTS, AND OTHER FRUIT, 
TO CANDY. Boil die fiiiit in clarified 
sugar as for preserving; take it out of the 
sirup and drain it upon sieves ; sift over it 
through a lawn sieve, till quite white, poimd- 
ed k>af sugar. Place diem in a cool oven» 
and turn and dufet them with sugar till dry. 

CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT 
EGGS. Stir into lialf a pint of mild ale» 
as much flour as will make it into a thick 
butter ; add a little sugar and a few cunants ; 
beat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop 
it into boiling lard. 

CURRANT MARMALADE. Taka 

some ri|)e red currants, pick diem, and 
squeeze out the juice from some of diem ; pul 
to it some juice of raspberries ; Uien put to 
diis die whole currants, boil diem gendy; 
and wlien th^ begin to break, put in au 
e(|iial weight of sugar boiled to candv height ; 
boil diem togedier, manh them as tliey boil x 
skim them, put in some rose water, and 
when it becomes as thick as marmalade, put 
it into pots. 



PUDDING. Set Pud- 



CURRANT 
ding. 



CURRANTS FOR TARTS. Gather 
the ft uit perfectly dry, and before it be too 
ripe, pick it from die stalks, and put it into 
clean, dr}', widc-moudied botlk»; if the 
flavor of rasplierries is approved, some may, 
be added with die currants; tie tightly over 
each bfillki a piece of sound bladder previ- 
ously soaked in wiiter ; set tliem into a pan 
of cold water widi a little stmw at the hot* 



CUR 



6S 



CDR 



Com, and a little between tlie bottles ; put 
tfiein on the fire, aqd when thev be^n to 
tfimmer, keep them in tluit state aGout diree^ 
quarters (if an hour, but tliey mtist not be 
allowed to boil ; take tlie pan off the fire ; 
die bladders will be raised, but will fall soon 
after, ami sink into die mouth of the bottles' ; 
in an hour, tiike tliem out, and tie strong 
paper over each, and set tliera in a dry cool 
place. Tlie bottles may be placed in a 
imttle rack witli the neck downwards. 
Daiiisons,'ciierrics, and gooseljerrira, may 
he done in tliis way; anv sort will keep for 
a year. Cut off the stalks of llie cherries, 
and top and tail tlic gooseberries. 

CURRANT TART. See TarU, 

CURRIES. Cut fowls or rabbits into 
joints, and wsish tliem clean ; put two ounces 
of butter into a stewpan : when it is melted, 
pot in the meat, and two middling-sized 
tfnions sliced, let them be over a smart fire 
till tliey are of a liglit brown, dien put in 
half a pint of l)roth ; let it simmer twenty 
aainutes. Put in a basin one or two table- 

r infills of curry powder, a teanspoonflil of 
r, and a tea-spoonful of suit; mix it 
amooth with a little cokl water, put it into 
Che stewpan, and shake it well aoout till it 
Hoib: kit it simmer twenty minutes longer; 
dien take otit the meat, and rub the sauce 
(iiroiigh a tainis or sieve: add to it two ta- 
ble-spoonflib of cream or milk ; give it a 
Iboil np ; then pour it into a dish, lay the 
aneat over it: send up the rice in a separate 

aisb. 

CURRY. Col a fowl into small pieces, 
dkin it, and let it blanch in cold water for 
two hoursji ; mince an onion very small, and 

Eit it into a saucepan, witli two ounces of 
itter, and a large table-spoonful of floor 
of rice stirred in by degrees ; hvown it well, 
and when just boiling, add a quart of cold 
water, with the pieces of fowl and a lar^e 
lable-spoonful of curry powder mixed in it. 
iiCt it boil till the fowl be quite tender, and 
iust before serving, s(iueeze the juice of 
(alf a lemon over die blade of a knife into 
•t. Vinegar will answer instead of die 
jliioe; and if it be required very fine, in 
place of rice, thicken it with an ounce of 
•weet almonds blanched and pounded. 

CURRY BALLS for Mock TurtU, 
Vetd^ Poultry, Made Dishes, %ii. Are 
attade with Iwead-cnimbs, the volk of an 
CS^ boiled hard, and a bit of fresh butter 
wout lialf as big, beaten togeUier in a mor- 
' Car, and seasonal with curry powder. 

''CURRY, DRY. Skin and cut a fowl 
into jolots, or take oflf miall catlets fixMn 



tlie l)est end of a neck of %'eal; fry In 1 
three or four minced onions, and dram 
tliem ; then fry the fowl or veal, and diwt H 
widi three tea-spoonftib of curry powder, 
and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of*^ Cayenne. 
Put the fried meat and onions into a stew- 
pan, with a little salt, half a pint of miHc, 
and the same quantity of water; keep the 
pan closely covered, and let it stew till per- 
fectly tender, and ten mimiten before aerr- 
ing, add two tea-6po(Xifuls of lemon-juice. 

CURRY, FISH. After a cod-fish, had- 
dock, or mackerel has Yam some hoars in 
salt, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water 
sufijcient to cover it, into which a large ta- 
ble spoonfiil of cHrry powder has been mix- 
ed. Fry in a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a shalbt and two or three onions minced, 
a little pepper and salt. When well brown- 
ed, add it to the fish, and stew all togetlier 
till it be quite tender. Sprats make a good 
curry, but should be stewed in less water. 



CURRY, INDIAN. Stew in two c 
es of butter, for ten minutes, a teaspoonfbl 
of Cayenne, and one of pepper, -a aessert- 
spooniul of pounded coriander seed, six 
small onions, and two heads of garlic min- 
ced. Cut the fowl or rabbit ihrto smaB 
pieces, -and cover it over widi the curd of 
sweet milk. Put the whole into a stewpan, 
witli as much boiling water as may be de« 
sired for sauce, and let it simmer till vary 



CURRYPOWDER. (1) PntthefbBow- 
ing ingredients in a cool oven all night, and 
the next morning pound them in a niarbfe 
mortar, and litb them through a fine sieve. 
Coriander-seed, tliree ounces, turmeric, three 
ounces, black pepper, mustai-d, and ginger, 
one ounce of each, allspice and less carda- 
mons, half an ounce of each, cnmin seed, 
a quarter of an ounce. Th<Mt>uglily pound 
and mix together, and keep them in a well- 
stopped bottle. Those who are fond of 
curry sauces, may steep three ounces of the 

r'der in a quait of vinegar tyr white wine 
ten days, and will get a Kquor impreg- 
nated with all the flavor of the powder. 

CURRY POWDER. (2) Poond ex- 
tremely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of ce- 
riander seed, three ounces of pepper, eaa 
ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, oite 
ounce of cumin seed, tliree ounces of tur- 
meric, and three-<]uartor8 of an ounce of 
Cayenne; sift it througli muslin, and put it 
be^re the fire for four or five lioiirs, stirring 
it every now and then. Keep it in a bottia 
with a glass stopper. 

CURRY OF VEAL, FOWL, 8ec. FVy 



COS 



as 



CU9 



liioed veal, ralibit, fowl, or sweetbreads, ina 
good deal of butter, dusting it with dour. 
Dut one side witJi cany powder; then turn 
asd dusi the other, strewing over it finely- 
BUDoed onions, taking care not to bam them. 
When the meat is of a light brown, add 
some white stodc, widi a little salt ; stew it 
till tender. Before serving, skim off the fat, 
and add a tea-«poonful of lemon-juice or 
vinegar. Rabbit, fowl, and sweetbreads 
dnokl be parboiled. 

CUSTARD. (1) Sweeten a quart of diin 
cream, or goad milk, with pounded loaf 
SQSar; boil it with a bit of cinjiamon, and 
Inlrthe peel of a loaon ; straio it, and wlien 
a little cooled, mix it gradually widi the 
wdl-faeateB yolks of leu eggs; stir it over a 
slow fire till it be pi^etty tliick, poiu* it into a 
basin, and add a ttdile-epooaful of rose water, 
and one of Inrandy; keep stirring it every 
BOW and then till cold, aad then put it into 
ghsses, cups, or a didi. It laay be made 
the day before k is used. 

CUSTARD. (2) Boil a pint of milk 
with leraon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint 
of cream, aiid the yolks oi five eg^', well 
beaten ; when the milk tastes of tlie season- 
ing, sweeten it enough for Un whole; pour 
it into the cream, stirring it vvull; then eive 
die costard a simmer till of a proper tliick- 
ness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole 
time one way; then season with a large 
spoonful of peach water, and two tea-spoon- 
fob c^ brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish 
your custard to be extremely rich, put no 
loilk, but a quart of cream. 

CUSTARDS. (3) Take six eggs, 
leave out the whites; mix your eggs iuid 
•i^ar to^etlier with some rose water ; tlien 
boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs 
(the cream most not boil after die eggs have 
iieen pot in). Stir them to prevem them 
irom curdling. 

CUSTARDS, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound fine, with half a gill of rose water, six 
mmces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter 
almonds; boil a pint of milk, as in Baked 
Custard sweeten it with two ounces and a 
half of sugar; rub the almonds through a 
fine sieve, with a pint of cream; strain the 
milk to the yolks of eight eggs, and the 
whites of three well-beaten ; slir it over a 
fire till it is of a ^ood tliiokness ; take it off 
the fire, and stir it till nearly cold, to prevent 
its curdling. N. B. — The above may be 
baked in cups, or in a dish, with a rim of 
puff paste put round. 

CUSTARD, APPLE. Take thirty 
fiae apples, and pierca out the cores of ten 



•f them which are of aa eqval siie; pain 
and trim them neatly, and boil them in sin 
ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and 
cut the remaining apples very small, and put 
them iiUo die above sirup; shred the rind 
of an orange, and mix with them ; stir the 
whole constantly to prevent their stick iiw 
to the pun ; wti^n sufficiently done rub th« 
marmalade througli a horse-hair sieve. Pre^ 
pare ttie crust as before mentioned, but dre« 
the sides a Httle higher; mix two spooiifoii 
of apricot mannauule with that of your 
apples, and then put four spoonfuls of it'intQ 
tlie aistard ; place the wliole apples, (hav> 
ing put apricot marmalade in the place of 
tlie cores), and Uien add Uie rNUiiinder of 
tlie apple maimalade, taking care not to 
cover the apples with it. Finish as alv)ve. 
At the iiislant of ser\'ing it mask it with 
apple jelly, apricot or quince roarmaladei 
cherry juice or verjuice. Gamidi tlie to^ 
of each apple with a clierry or verjuice-beny. 
Serve diis hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, APRICOT GLAZED. 
Cut twenty fine apricots in Imlf, tiike o«it 
die stoncis; toss up tweh'e apricots in Ibutf 
ounces of |H)wderH9ugar, and place them lA 
a cream according to Uie directions for 
apple ciistiird; b;iKe and glaze as tliereifl 
dii-ected. Put a glass of water and a quar- 
ter of a pound of iiuwder-sugru* widi tht 
rest of the fmit into a prcwn'ing-pan ; wlieil 
die sir^ip is properly reduced, take the skiA 
from the apricots and arrange them in the 
cusUird; garnish each half apricxK with a 
kernel, and wlien ready to serve, pour the 
sirup on it. Serve hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (I) Boil a 
pint of bream with mace and cinnamon; 
when cold, take four eggs, leaving out twQ 
of tlie whites, a little rose and orange-flower 
water, a little while wine, nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste ; mix them well togedier, 
and bake Uiem in cliina cups. 

CUSTARD, BAKED. (2) Boil m a 
pint uf milk, a few coriander seeds, a little 
cinnamon and lemon-peel; sweeten with 
four ounces of loaf sugar, and mix widi it a 
pint of cold milk ; beat well ei^ht es^ dft 
ten minutes, and add the other ingiedients} 
prmr it from one pan into anodier six or 
eight times, strain it through a sieve, and 
let it stand som^ time ; skim off tlie froth 
from die top, fill it in earthen cups, and 
bake them immediately in a hot oven, give 
them a good color ; about ten minutes will 
do them. 

CUSTARD, BOILED. (1) Boil in a pint 
of milk, five minutes, lemon-peel, coriandersi 
and cinnamon, a smalt quantity of each. 



cus 



64 



COS- 



half a doaen of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, and fuiir cMHioes of ioaf sugar: mix 
It with a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, 
and the whites of six, weU-beaten ; pass it 
ihitMigli a hair sieve, stir it witli a whisk 
over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, re- 
jDove it from tlie fire, and continue to stir 
it till nearly cold ; add two table-spoonfuls 
of brandy, fill tlie cups or glasses^ and grate 
nutmeg over. 

CUSTARDS, BOILED. (2) Put a 
quart of new milk into a stewpan, widi die 
petA of a lemon cut very diin, a little grated 
mifmeg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small 
atick of cinnamon ; set it over a quick fire, 
but be careful it di)ea not boil over: wlien it 
boilf , set it beside the five, and simmer ten 
minutes ; bresik tlie yolks of eight, and tlie 
whites of fuur eggs into a Ijasin ; beat them 
well ; then pour in the milk a little at a 
time, stirring it as nnick as possible to pre- 
vent the eggs curdling; set it on the fire 
.again, and stir it well with a woodeji spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it tlirougli a 
tamis, or fine sieve: when cold add a little 
brandy, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable to tlie eater's palate. Sei*ve up 
in glasses, or cups. Oistards fur baking 
are prepared as above, passed tlirough a 
fine sieve; put diem into cups; grate a little 
nutmeg over each: bake tliem about fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

CUSTARD, COMMON. Boil a pint 
of milk wiU) a bit of cinnamon and two or 
three laurel leaves; mix with one table- 
spoonful of flour, or potato flour, two and a 
half of cr>ld milk, put it into a lawn sieve, 
and pour tlie br>iling milk upon it; let it 
run into a basin, mix in by degi'ees tlie well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs; sweeten, and 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes to 
tliicken. 

CUSTARDS OR CREAMS, to Orna- 
ment. Whisk fur one hour die whites of 
two eggs togetlier with two table-spoonfuls 
of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jelly ; 
lay it in any form upon a custard or creaui, 
piled up to imitate rock. It may be served 
in a disli with cream round it. 

CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of 
cream add the well-beaten yolks of two egg», 
and about a third of a pint of mild stiong 
ale ; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it 
nearly boils, tlien |)our it into a dish, in die 
bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread, 
out into Bfiuare bits. 

CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. 
Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line 
it completely with paste, taking care Uiat it 



takes all the form of die moakl. Then tob 
a suflicient quantity of apricots, peaches, 
plums, or any otiier fitiit you please; and 
liaving taken out tlie stones, seeds, and stalki, 
mix die fivit up with powder-sugar; pot it 
into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. 
Wlien ready for table, mask it with the 
sirup and kernels, blanched and cut id 
lialves. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (1) Boil two 
glasses of white wine, lialf a pint of water, 
and two table-flpo<Niftlb of brandy; when 
nearly cold, add tlie grated ped and juioe 
of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six 
eggs; stir it over a slow fire till it thicken, 
pour it into a basin, and stir now and then 
till cold ; put it into a dish, or cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over die top. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (2) Put the 
juice of four lemons, with three ounces of 
pounded k)af sugar, into a deep dish. Boil 
tlie grated peel of one lemon and two oonoei 
of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, 
and j)our it ov«- die juice and sugu. It 
will keep for four days. 

CUSTARD, ORANGE. Sweeten the 
strained juiv^tMit' ten oranges with pounded 
l(iaf sugar, stir it over die fire till hot, take 
ofi' the scum, and when nearly ooki add to it 
the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint 
of cream ; put it into a saucefian, and stir 
it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve is 
cups or a dish. 

CUSTARD, RICE. Mix a pint of 
milk, liatf a pint of cream, one ounce of sift- 
ed ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded witlt t%vo tak'e^poonr 
fills of rose water ; sweeten with kiaf 8u»ar, 
and stir it all together till it nearly boib; 
add the well-beaten yo ks of three c^i 
stir, and let it simmer for about a minute; 
pour it into a dish, or serve it in cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, TURKEY. Put a pound 
and a half of good rice into cold water ofef 
tlie fire, and when it boils. Cake it off and 
drain it well ; then put it into a large niooe- 
pan, with twelve glasses of good milk, » 
pound of butter, the same of sugar, on whidi 
have been rasped the peels of four oi-anges 
or cedrats, and a grain of sak. Put the 
saucepan over a moderate fire to swdl the 
rice, taking care that none of the graijj 
burst ; stir it a little, and when done, add 
to it two pounds of dry currants, the yoUtf 
of twelve eggs, and some spoonfiils of Cha^ 
tiily cream ; after which mix m the twehi 
whites whipped firm. Prepare the cm* i« 



JbABt 



65 



DET 



the nsoal way; hake it in a moderate oven 
two houre and a half; when ready for table, 
farown it with a salamander. 

CUSTARD, TURNING OUT- Mix 

with the well-beaten yoBu of four eggs a 
pint of new milk, half an ounoe of isina^lam 
disBolvpd, or enough of calfs-feet stock to 
Btifien it, and two laivel leaves; sweeten 
with pounded kiaf susnr, and stir it over a 
slow fire till it thickens; pour it into a 
l»8in,and stir it till a tittle cooled, then 
poor it into cups to turn out when quite cold. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little 
cream; add it to nearly half a pound of 
blown sugar burnt; strain it dirough a 
neve, and wlien cold pour it round the cus- 
tards. 



0. 

DAMSONS BOTTLED. Gather them 
on a dry day before they are ripe^ when they 
have just turned their cobr. Put them in 
wide-moutlied bottles, cork them close, and 
let them stand a fuitniglit ; then carefully 
examine them, and if any of tliem are 
mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bot- 
tles, and cork the rest close. Put the bot- 
tles in sand, and they will keep good till the 
^ing. 

DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a 
.|ood hot puste crust, rolt it pietty thin, lay it 
in a basin, and put in as many damsons as 
you pieetse. Wet the edge of the paste and 
close it up ; boil it in a cbth for an hour ; 
poor melted butter over it, gmte sugar round 
the edge of tlie distt, and serve. 

DAMSON JELLY. See Jelly. 

DAMSON, OR OTHER PLUM 
CHEESE. Take damsons that liave been 
preserved without sugar ; pans tliem thnmgli 
a sie^'e, to take out the skins and stones. 
To every potind of 'piilp of fniit put lialf a 
pound of loaf s(ig;ir, broke small ; boil tiiem 
togeUier till it becomes quite stiflT ; poiu* it 
into four common-«<i:eed dinner plates, nibbed 
widi a little sweet oil ; put it into a warm 
place to dry, and wlien quite firm, take it 
from the plate, and cut it into any shape you 
clKxiee. N. B. — Damson clieese Is generdlly 
used in desserts. 

DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. 
Gather the damsons when just ripe, and per- 
fectly sound ; fill a two-gallon brandy keg, 
and pour over two pounds of molasses; close 
the keg firmly, and turn it every day. 



L. (1) Scorethelegof anMHiedtH»> 
e, or fi>wl ; pevper and salt it weH^ 



DEER HORNS. 

six yolks of eggs; mix them with five taUi 
spoonfuls of pounded and siAed loaf fqgari 
the same qtantity of sweet cream, ten swmI 
almonds, blanched and po u nded, the gratai 
peel of one lemon, and as much flour m wiO 
make the whole into a paste wflicieatly 
thick to roll out. Then cut it with tins W 
the purpose, into the form of hnnM« braDel^ 
es, or any other shape, and throw them iolo 
boiling lard. 

DEVIL. ( 

key, ^ooee, or tbwl ; pepper t 
broil It, and poor over it the Mbwing i 
made quite hot : three taUenspoonfiils of gr^ 
vy, one of melted butter, and one of leoioa 
juice, a large wine-gbss of Port wine, at 
mustard. Chili vinegar, Harvey aaiioe, ani 
mushroom catchup, a tea«poonful each ; a lit- 
tle Cayenne and pepper. The devil may he 
served without a sauce, and be more highW 
seasoned. When this dish is to be senraa 
cold, tlie &t being carefully removed from th« 
gooscr it may be ornamented or covered willl 
cokl jelly made as follows :— Boil fur five 
hours in four quarts of water the bones of tiK 
goose, with three nicely cleaned calf's font, 
strain it, and when cold take off all tlie firt, 
and boil the jelly with some whole pefiper, 
ginger, and Bult ; add two ounces of dissolv- 
ed isinglass, die juice of two lemons, and 
die beaten whiles of tliree or fiiur eggs; stir 
it while it '» upon the fire, and allow it to 
boil about ten minutes ; then run it througli 
a jelly-bag,, and repeal this till it beoomee 
quite clear. 

DEVIL. (2) The gizzard and nimp, or 
legs, &c. of a dressed turkey, ration, Oi 
goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, 
pe))pei'ed, salted, and broiled, sent up for a 
relish, being made very liot, has obtained 
the mune of a ** devil.'* 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (I) Turn 
some new milk from the cow with a little 
rennet ; sweeten some thick cream, add a 
little poimcbd cinnamon, make it scalding 
hot, and when cold pour it over die curd, 
and put a little wine and sugar into die bot- 
tom of die dish. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (2) Turn 
some new milk, as for clierse cakes, in a 
wide slialbw dish ; when cold, pour over the 
top a pint of rich cream mixed with pounded 
loaf sugar, six dessert qxwnfuls of brandy, 
and some grated nutmeg. 

DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. Beit 

up a pint of cream with four eggs, a liftle 
salt, some sliced outm^, and a good deiU </ 



CU8 



64 



cus 



half a doaeen of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, and four ounces of loaf sugar: mix 
It witti a pint of cream, the yolks often eggSy 
and the whites of six, weU-beaten ; pass it 
through a h^ir sieve, stir it M'ith a whisk 
over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, re- 
move it from the fire, and continue to stir 
it till nearly cold ; add two table-spoonfuls 
of brandy, fill die cups or glasses^ and grate 
nutmeg over. 

CUSTARDS, BOILED. (2) Put a 
quart of new milk into a stewpan, witli die 
petA of a lemon cut very tliin, a little grated 
nufmeg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small 
■tick of cinnamon ; set it over a quick fii^e, 
but be careful it does not boil over: vi'lien it 
boilf, set it beside the fire, and simmer ten 
minutes ; bretik tiie yolks of eight, and tlie 
whites of four eggs into a haaim ; beat them 
well; tlien pour in the milk a little at a 
time, stirring it as quick as possible to pre- 
vent the eggs curdling; set it on the fire 
.again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it dirough a 
tamis, or fine sieve: when culd add a little 
brandy, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable to the eater's palate. Sei*ve up 
in glasses, or cups. Custards fur baking 
are prepared as above, passed through a 
fine sieve; put tliem into cups ; grate a little 
nutmeg over each: bake them about fifteen 
or twenty minutes. 

CUSTARD, COMMOx\. Boil a pint 
of milk wiUi a bit of cinnamon and two or 
tliree laurel leaves; mix witli one table- 
spoonful of flour, or potato flour, two and a 
half of or>ld milk, put it into a lawn sieve, 
and pour tlie boiling niiik upon it; let it 
run into a basin, mix in by degrees tlie well- 
t)eaten yolks of three eggs; sweeten, and 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes to 
tliicken. 

CUSTARDS OR CREAMS, to Orna- 
ment. Whisk for one hour Uie whites of 
two eggs togedier with two table-epounfuls 
of raspberry, or red currant sirup or jelly ; 
lay it in any form upon a custard or cream, 
piled up to imitate rock. It may be served 
in a dish with cream round it. 

CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of 
cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
and about a third of a pint of mild strong 
ale ; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it 
nearly boils, dien jwur it into a dish, in die 
bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread, 
cut into flfiuare bits. 

CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. 

Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line 
it completely with paste, taking care Uiat it 



takes an the form of die mooM. Thai takm 
a sufficient quantity of apricots, peadwa, 
plums, CM* any other fruit you plenoe ; and 
having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, 
mix di6 fiiiit up with powder-cnigar; put it 
into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. 
Wlien ready for table, mask it with the 
sirup and kernels, blanched and cut io 
lialves. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (1) BoU two 
glasses of white wine, lialf a pint of water, 
and two table-spoonfhls of brandy; when 
nearly cold, add tlie grated peel and juice 
of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and tlie weU-beaten yolks <^ six 
eggs; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, 
pour it into a basin, and istir now and then 
till cold ; put it into a dish, or cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over die top. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (2) Put the 

juice of four lemons, with three ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil 
the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces 
n( pounded loaf sugar in a qoaft of cream, 
and jx)ur it over die juice andaigai. It 
will keep for four days. 

CUSTARD, ORANGE. Sweeten the 
strained juic:e of ted oranges wiUi pomided 
loaf sugar, stir it tyv&r the fire till hot, take 
oft' the scum, and when nearly cold add to it 
the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint 
of cream ; put it into a sauoefian, and stir 
it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve in 
cups or a dish. 

CUSTARD, RICE. Mix a pint of 
milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sift- 
ed ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded with two tabVsspoon- 
fuls of rose water; sweeten witli loaf si^ar, 
and stir it all together till it nearly boils; 
add the well-beaten yo'ks of three eggs; 
stir, and let it simmer for about a minute; 
pour it into a dish, or serve it in cups, with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, TURKEY. Put a pound 
and a half of good rice into cold water over 
the fire, and when it boils, take it off and 
drain it well ; then put it into a large sauce- 
pan, widi twelve glasses of good milk, a 
pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which 
have been rasped the peels of four orai^es 
or cedrats, and a gram of sak. Put the 
saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the 
rice, taking care that none of the grains 
burst ; stir it a little, and when done, add 
to it two pounds of dry currants, the volks 
of twelve eggs, and some spoonfuls of Chm^ 
tilly cream ; afler which mix m che twelve 
whites whipped firm. Prepare the onait in 



Dam 



65 



OET 



the TBoal way; bake it in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half; when rea^ for table, 
iat>wii it with a sakunander. 

CUSTARD, TURxNING OXTT. Mix 
inth the well-beaten yoHu (rf* four eggs a 
pint of new milk, half an ounce of isinvhm 
diflBolvpd, or enough of calPs-feet stock to 
•tiflen it, and two laurel leaves; sweeten 
with poumded loaf Bosur, and stir it over a 
Am fire till it thidiens; poor it into a 
basin, and stir it till a iittfe cooled, then 
poor it into cups to turn out when quite cold. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs witli a little 
cream; add it to nearly h<ilf a pound of 
brown sugar burnt; strain it through a 
neve, and when cold pour it round the cus- 
tards. 



D. 

DAMSONS BOTTLED. Gather them 
on a dry day before they are ripe^ when they 
have just turned their cokor. Put tliem iii 
wide-moutlied bottles, cork tliem close, and 
I let them stand a fuitnight ; then carefully 
examine tliem, and if any of tliem are 
mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bot- 
tles, and cork tiie rest close. Put the bot- 
tles in sand, and they will keep good till the 
■priog. 

DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a 
.^ood hot paste crust, rolf it pietty thin, lay it 
in a basin, and put in as many damsons as 
you please. Wet the edge of the paste and 
dose it up ; boil it in a cloth for '<ui hour ; 
pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round 
the edge of die diali, and serve. 

DAMSON JELLY. See Jelly. 

DAMSON, OR OTHER PLUM 
CHEESE. Take damsons tliat have been 
preserved without sugar ; pans tliem through 
a sieve, to take out the skins and stones. 
To every pound of'pulp of firuit put lialf a 
pound of loaf siigiir, broke small ; lx>il tliem 
togetlier till it becomes quite stiflT ; potu- it 
mto lour common-Hized dinner plates, nibbed 
with a little sweet oil ; put it into a warm 
place to dry, and when quite firm, take it 
from the plate, and cut it into anv shape you 
choose. N. B. — Damson cheese is generally 
osedin desserts. 

DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. 
Gather the damsons when just ripe, and per- 
fectly sound ; fill a two-gallon brandy keg, 
and pour over two pounds of molasses; dose 
the keg firmly, and turn it every day. 



DEER HORNS. Beat a 

six ydks of eggs ; mix thean with lire taUi 
spoonfuls oC pounded and siAed loaf sugaTi 
tne same mnntity of sweet cream, ten swell 
almonds, blanched and pm m ded, the gnJmi 
peel of one lemon, and as much flour as wiB 
make the whole into a paste suflicieatly 
thick to roll out. Then cut it wkh tins fer 
the purpose, into the fixm of hnrns, bnuMl^ 
es, or any other shape, and throw them into 
boiling lard. 

DEVIL. (1) Scoretkeleg of anmsledtHk' 
key, j^ooee, or luwl; ptpper and sak it weH^ 
broil It, and pour over it the fblbwing saaee 
made quite hot: three table-apoonfiib of gr»> 
vy, one of melted butter, and one of leoMA 
juice, a large wine-gkiai of Povt wine, of 
mustard, Cliili vinegar, Harvey sauce, ani 
mushroom catchup, a le»«poon(ut each ; a li^ 
tie Cayenne and pepper. The devil may be 



served without a sauce, and be more highW 
seasoned. When this dish is to be ae^w 
cold, the fiit being carefiiUy removed from the 
goose, it may be ornamented <Nrc«Mremd willl 
cokl jelly made ae folbiws : — Boil for five 
hours in duar quarts of water the bones of the 
goose, with three nicety cleaned calf's feel, 
strain it, and when cold Uke off all the fet, 
and boil tlie jeHy with some whole pepper, 
ginger, and sah ; add two ounces of dissolv- 
ed isinglass, die juice of two lemens, and 
die beaten whiles of three or four eegs ; stir 
it while it is. upon the fire, and alLw it to 
boil about ten mimnes ; then run it ihroo^i 
a jelly-bag,, and repeat this till it becomee 
quite clear. 

DEVIL. (2) The gizzard and nimp, or 
le^, &c. of a dressed tinkey, cafion, or 
goose, or mutton or veal kidney. Moored, 
peppei^l, salted, and broiled, sent up for a 
relish, beine made very liot, has obtained 
the name of a " devil." 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (1) Turn 
some new milk from the cow with a little 
rennet ; sweeten some thick cream, add a 
little pounded cinnamon, make it scalding 
hot, and when cold pour it over die curd, 
and put a little wine and sugar into die botp 
tom of die dish. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (2) Turn 
some new milk, as for clierse cakes, in a 
wide slialbw dish ; wlien cold, pour over the 
top a pint of ridi cream mixed with pounded 
fc>af sugar, six dessert spoonfidi of brandy, 
and some grated nutmeg. 



DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. 
up a pint of cream with four eggs, a Nftfe 
salt, some sliced natmeg, and a good 4e»l of 



DUC 



66 



DUG 



•Bgv; then dice very tliin, almost the whole 
oT tlie crum of a penny loaf ; put it into a 
dish ; pour the eggs* and cream to it ; a 
handful of Smyrna raisins boiled, and a 
little sweet butter : bake it. 

DIGESTER. An iron boiler, with a 
top to screw on, to prevent tlie steam from 
escaping. 

DRIPPINGS, TO CLARIFY. Put 
your dripping into a clean saucepan over a 
■toveorslow fire; wlien it is just going to 
boil, skim it well, let it boil, and tlien let it 
stand till it is a little cooled ; then pour it 
through a sieve into a pan. Obs. — Well- 
cleansed drippingM, and tlie iat skimmings 
of tlie brotli-p(>t, when fresli and sweet, will 
baste everything as well as butter except 
game and poultry, and sliould supply the 
place of butter for common fries, &c.; fur 
whicli they are ecpial to lard, especially if 
you repeat die clarifying twice over. N. B. 
—If you keep It in a cool place, you may 
preserve it a foitiiight in summer, and long- 
er in winter. Wiien you have done frying, 
let the dripping stand a few minutes to set- 
tle, and tlien pour it diroi^h a sieve into a 
Ckaut basin or stone pan, and it will do a 
•eoofid and a diird time as well as it did 
Ae first; only die hi you have fried fish in 
must not be used for any odier puipose. 

DRINK, €X>OLING. A palatable and 
cooling drink may be made by pouiing hot 
water over slices of lemon ; wiien cold, to 
be strained and sweetened. 

DUCK. Mind your dock is well clean- 
ed, and wiped out wiUi a clean chith : fur tlie 
stuffing, take an ounce of oniun and half an 
ounce of o^reen sage ; chop them very fine, 
and mix them with two ounces, t. e. about 
a breakfast-cupful, of bread crumbs, a bit 
of butter about as bi^ as a walnut, a very 
little black pepper and salt, and the yolk of 
an egg to bina it; mix these thoroughly to- 
gether, and put into the duck. From half 
to three-quarters of an hour will be enough 
to roast it, according to the size: contrive 
to have the feet delicately crisp, as some 
people are very fond of them; to do tiiis 
nicely you must have a sharp fire. 

DUCK, TO BOIL. Make a paste, al- 
lowing half a pound of butter to a pound of 
flour. Truss a duck as for boiling ; put in- 
to the inside a little pepper and salt, one or 
two sage leaves, and a little onion finely 
minced ; enclose the duck in the paste, witn 
A little jellied ffravy. Boil it in a cloth, and 
■erve it with brown gravy poured round it. 

DUCKS, TO CHOOSE. Their feet 



should be supple, and they should be kmtd 
and diick on die breast and belly. The feeC 
of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a 
duskv yeHow. The feet of a wild duck are 
reddiKh, and smaller than the tame ; they 
should be picked dry. Ducklings should be 
scalded. 

DUCK, DRESSED IN DIFFERENT 
WAYS. Take eidier a Jai^ duck, or two 
ducklings, which truss like a fowl for boil- 
ing ; put it into a pot (just about large 
enougli to hold die duck) wiUi thin slices of 
bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, 
salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, 
a bunch of sweet lierbs, two cloves, an^ a 
buy-leaf; wlien done, take out tlie duck, 
wipe tlie fat off very clean, and ser\'e with 
what sauce or ragout you choose, sucli as 
sweetbreads, green-peas, turnips, chestnuts, 
olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed 
gieens, according to the i 



DUCKS, GEESE, DRESSED, OR 
HASHED. Cut an onion into small dice; 
put it into a stewpan with a bit of butter; 
li-y it, but do not let it get any color; put 
as much boiling water into die stewpan as 
will make siuice for die hash; thicken it 
with a little flour; cut up the duck, and put 
it into die sauce to warm; do not let it 
boil ; season it widi pepper and salt, and 
catchup. Divide tlie duck into joints; lay 
it by ready ; put tlie trimmings and sUiffiiw 
into a stewpan, widi a pint and a lialf of 
brodi or water ; let it boil lialf an hour, and 
Uien rub it dirough a sieve; put half an - 
ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as it melts, 
mix a taUe-spoonful of flour with it ; stir it 
over the fire a few minutes, then mix the 
gravy with it by degrees ; as soon as it boils, 
take off the scum, and strain through a 
sieve into a stewpan; put in the duck, and 
let it stew very gently for ten or fifteen min- 
utes, if die duck is ratlier under-roasted : if 
Uiere is any fat, skim it off: line the dish 
you serve it up in with sippets of bread 
eitlier fried or toasted. 

DUCK OR GOOSE FORCED. Cut 

the goose open at the back, and carefully 
take out the bones, excepting those of the 
l(>gs and wings. Take out all the meat from 
the bodv, leaving the skin perfectly whole. 
With the meat pound diree-quarters of a 
pound of lean and tender beef, add three 
naudfuls of grated bread, four well-beaten 
eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream; 
i^fi»aon with pq^per, mace, and salt ; mix 
it all well together; let it stand for half an 
hour, and then put it into the goose, which 
sew up, and make it of as natural a form as 
possible ; but take care that it be not too 
much stuffed. Boil it for half an hoar In 



DUC 



67 



DUM 



lone good stock, and dwn pot it into a flat 
tin baKing-pan, with some freah butter over 
and under it. Bake it in an avea another 
half hour, and serve it with the fbUuwing 
saoce: Brown a tabte-spoonfiil of butter 
with flour, add about a pint of the stock 
in which the goose has been boiled, thaee 
grated onions, two table-spoonfUs of capers 
cut fine, a little leuMw pickle, and a few 
mall pickJed onicHis; boil it about a quar- 
ter of an hour, and just heibn pouring it 
over the goose, stir in graduaUy half a pint 
of rich cream. 

DUCK» HASHED, Qit a duck in 
pieces, and flour it; put in a stewpan some 
eravy, a little Port wine, shallots chopped 
fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon ; boil 
this ; then pot in the duck, toss it op, take 
out die lemoo, and serve with toasted sippets. 

PUCKS ROASTED. Season them 
with sage and onion shred, pepper and salt; 
haK an i«our will roast them. Gravy-sauce 
or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and 
onion in a little water, as it prevents its 
eating strong, and takes ofl* the rawness of 



DUCK, TO STEW. (1) Cut one or two 
docks into quarters ; fry them a light brown 
m butter; put them into a saucepan, with 
a pint of gravy, a tea-cupliil of Port wine, 
§aur onions whole, pepper and scMue salt, a 
bunch of parsley, two sage leaves, a sprig 
of winter savory, and sweet marjoram. 
Cover tlie pan closely, and stew them till ten- 
der ; take out the herbs and pepper ; skim it ; 
if the sauce be not sufliciently thick, mix with 
two table-spoonfiils of it a little flour, and 
stir it into the saucepan ; boil it up, and 
garnish the dish with the four onions. 

DUCK, TO STEW. (2) Put into a duck 
some pepper, salt, a minced onion, and one 
leaf of sage also minced ; half roast it ; 
brown with two ounces of butter, a table- 
qxxmful of flour ; add an much weak stock 
or water as will half cover the duck, and 
some pepper and salt; put in the duck, and 
a quart of ^reen })eas ; let it stew for half 
an hour, stirring it now and then. For a 
variety, a dozen of middling-sized oni<His 
may he substituted for the peas, and stew- 
ed the same length of time. CoM roasted 
duck may be dressed exactly in the same 
manner; and to hash it, cut it into iointi, 
and heat it thoroughly in gnyy, adding a 
little soy, and a gl^ of Port wine. 

DUCK, Wn.D. These birds should be 
6i, the claws small, reddish and supple; if 
aot fresh, on opening the beak they will 



! smell di«igreeable ; the braast and ronp 
should be firm and heavy ; the flesh of the 
hen-bird is the most delicate, though thft 
cock generally fetches the highest price. 
Pick Uiem diy, cut the wings very rkise to 
the body, take ofl* the necks, draw and singe 
them, truss up the less and skewer them ; 
and having rubbed ttiem with their livers, 

Sit, and roast them ; iaS^e them up with 
e gravy in, and serve with lemons. 

DUCK, WILD, SALMIS OF. CM 

oflf the best partsof a couple of roosted wild 
ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a 
mortar, with six shallots, a little parsley, 
some pepper, and a bay-leaf, pound all these 
ingreaients together well, ana then put them 
into a saucepan with four ladlesfiil of stock, 
half a glaas of white wine, the same of 
broth, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce 
these to half, strain them, and having laid 
the pieces on a dish, cover them with the 
abo^'e : kea> the whole hot, not boiling, un- 
til wanted fiN* table. 

DUMPLINGS, HARD. Mix as for a 
paste, some flour with small beer or water, 
and a little salt; roU them in balls rather 
larger than an em; when the water boils 
put them in: halfan hour will boil them; 
cuiTantB may be added ; they are good boil- 
ed with heef. They are eaten either with 
cokl or melted butter. 

DUMPLINGS, HALF-HOUR. Mince 
finely half a pound of suet, mix it with tlie 
same proportion of grated bread, and a ta- 
ble<«poonfiil of flour, a (|uarter of a pound 
of currants, some suear, a little grated lem- 
on-peel, nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs; 
roll die mixture into round balls, tie Uiem 
in bits of linen, and boil diem for half an 
liour. Serve with melted butter and sugar 
poured over them. 

DUMPUNGS, NORFOLK. Widi a 
pint of milk, two egzs, a little salt, and 
some flour, make a batter; drop this in 
small <ftiantities into a pot of boiling water; 
they will be boiled in Uiree minutes ; throw 
theim into a sieve or cullender to drain. 

DUMPLING PASTE. Make a paste 
with flour, milk, sah and yeast; let it stand 
sometime in a wann place to ferment^ then 
cut the paste into pieces of what sixe you 
please, and boil them a good while; let 
them cool; then cut each into two, and 
soak them in milk sii^r, and lemon-peel, 
about an hour, and dram and flour them fil 
for frying; or, you ma^ dip them in oil or 
melted butter to broil, hasting with the 
same as they were dipped in. 



£eL 



68 



CEL 



DtJTCH CREAM CHEESE. Beat 
the yolks of eight, and the whites of three 
egfls, and mix them widi a pint of butter 
milk; add this to three quafts of boiling 
milk just from the cow ; let it boil up once, 
take It oflf the fire, cover it, and let it stand 
ft little that tlie curd may form ; then t>ut it 
into a small hair sieve, and press it with a 
^veight for twenty-four hours, when it may 
be turned out. It is eaten with cream and 
MgBr» 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (1) Boil, 
whl) a pint of white wine, some sugar, the 
juit« of twO) and the peel of one lemon» a 
Mick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dis- 
solved isinglass ; strain, wid mix it with the 
well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, stir it over 
the fire till it simmer, but do not allow it to 
boil; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a 
Miape. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (2) Boil for 
ten minutes, in half a pint of white wine, and 
the same proportion of water, the juice of 
tluree, and the peel of t\yo lemons, rather 
more than a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
and an ounce of isinglass dissolved ; strain, 
and mix it gradually with the beaten yolks 
of five eg^ ; put it'again over the fire, and 
stir it for five minutes; stir it till cold, and 
put it into a aliape. 



E. 

ECHAUDE'S. Lay a quartern of flour 
on a pasteboard or slab, make a hole in tlie 
centre, in which put an ounce of salt, and a 
little water to dissoke it, a pound of butter, 
twenty eggs; mix the two latter well to- 
getlier, tlien the flour; work it tlioroughiy 
with youi' hands, if it be very firm add more 
^s. Wlien pei'fectly smooth, sprinkle a 
ckith with flour, lav the paste in it, and set 
it in a cool place tor ten or twelve hours. 
The next day heat about three quarts of 
water, Wfid having cut your paste into small 
pieces, about an inch square, and havinj^ 
floured each, put them into hot but not boij- 
ing water, sliake tlie kettle the instant after 
you have thrown them in, and as they rise, 
if tliey are fiim to the touch, they are suf- 
ficiently done, and must be taken out of the 
saucepan, and thrown into cold water; let 
them remain two orthreebours; then drain, 
and leave them again for three hours or 
more, and then bake them for about twenty 



EELS AND SOLES, sticwsd Wio. 
•T*f WAT. Take two pounds of fioe sil- 



ver eels: tKebest are those that are i 
mure than a half-crown piece in ci i o iiufe r - 
ence, quite fresh, fiill of life, and " as brisk 
as an eel:'* wash them in several different 
waters, and divide them into pieces about 
four inches long. Some cooks, dredge tfaem 
with a little flour, wipe them dry, and then 
e^g and crumb them, and fry them in drip- 
pings tin they are brown, and lay tbem to 
dry on a hair sieve. Have ready a quart 
of good beef gi'avy; it must be cold ^hen 



you put the eels into it: set them on a slow 
fire to simmer very gently for about a quar- 
ter of an hour, according to the size of the 



eels; watch them, that they are not done 
too much; take them careKilly out of the 
stewpan with a fish-slice, so as not to tear 
their coats, and lay tliem on a dish about 
two inches deep. 

EELS BAKED. Skin and clean aome 
eeb ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eeHg in 
lengths according to the depth of the pan ; 
put lliem in, letting tliem stand upright in 
It ; the pan should be filled ; put in a little 
water, some salt, pepper, shafloU} cut smaH, 
some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut 
small ; set them in tlie oven to bake ; when 
they are done take the liquor that oomes 
fn)m tliem, put it into a saucepan, and thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little white wine. 

EELS BOILED. Small ones are m- 
femble. Curl and put them on in boiling 
salt-and-water, with a Kttle vinegar. Gar- 
nish with parsley. Sauce; — pai-sley and 
butter. 

EELS COLLARED. Take an eel, and 
cut it open ; take out the bones ; cut ofl' the 
iiead and tail; lay tite eel flat, and shred 
sage as fine as possible; mix with black 
pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; 
lay it all over the eel ; roll it up hard in a 
clotli; tie it up tight at each end; then set 
over the fire some water, with pepper and 
salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades 
of mace, a bsiy-leaf or two ; boil these with 
the bones, head, and tail, well ; then put in 
the eel, and boil it till it is tender ; then take 
it out, and boil tlic Ik]uor, and when it is 
cold, put it to tlie eel ; do not take oflf the 
cloth tin you ifie them. 

EELS FRIED. Cut them into pieces 
of three or four inches long, and (hen score 
across in two or three places ; season thetas 
with pepper and salt,and dost them with floiar, 
or dip them into anegg beat up, and sprinkle 
diem with finely-grated bread crumbs; fiy 
them in fresh lard or dripping. Let than 
drain and dry npon the back of a sieinfelse. 
fore the fire. Garaisbwitfapankj. Saooe; 



EEL 



EOO 



-4[idttidbiiCtier, and leHKNi pickle. IfmaaUt 
they may be curled and fried whole. 

EEL PIE. Take eek about half a pound 
each; cut them into pieoei three inches Im, 
them with pep|>er and flak, and ml 
dish. Add a gill of water or veal 
h, cover it with paste, rub it over with a 
pMte-bniBh dipped ni yolk of egg, ornament 
It with eome of the same paste, hake it an 
hour; and when done, make a hole in the 
and poor in the Iblbwing sauce 
_ I a fimnel: the trimmings boiled in 
half a pint of veal stodi, seasoned with pep- 
per and sak, a taUe-spooofiil of lemon-juice, 
and thickened with flour and %vater, strained 
throi^ a fine sieve: add it boiling hot. 



EEI^ POTTED. Bone dien 
Aem well upon both sides with pepper, sak, 
a little maoe, and Jamaica pepper; let them 
lie for six boon, then cot them into small 
piec*s, and pack them close into a dish; 
cover them with a coarae paste and bake 
them. When quite coM, take off the paste, 
and pour over tfaem clarified hotter. 

EEL SOUP. Se€ JSoiqw. 

EELS STEWED. (1) Gnt the eels 
into pieces about four inches long; take two 
onions, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, 
thyme, two bay leaves, a little mace, black 
and Jamaica pepper, a pint of good gravy, 
die Biune of Port wine, and the same of vin- 
egar, six anchovies tMruised ; let all boil to- 
gether for ten minutes; take out the eels; 
boil the sauce till reduced to a quart; strain 
and thicken it with a tablenspoonful of flour, 
mixed snraoth in a little cold wattf. Put 
in the eels, and boil them till theyr are ten* 
der. Eels may also be roasted with a oom- 



EELS STEWED. (2) Cut die eels 
into pieces, season well two pounds and a 
half with salt atjd black pepper, put an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan with a large liandful 
of sorrel, three or four sage leaves, lialf an 
onion cut small, a litde stated lemon-peel, 
and one anchovy chopped ; put in the eels 
and poor over half a pint of water, stew 
them gendy for half an hour, shaking them 
occasiooalfy; before serving, add a little 
grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. 

EELS SPITCHCOCKED. This the 
French cooks call die English wayof di'ess- 
ing eels. Take two middling-sized silver 
eels, scour them with s^lt, slit them on the 
belly side, and take out the bones and vmsh 
and wipe them nicely ; then cut them into 
pieces about three inches long, and wipe 
them quite dry; pat two ounces of butler 



ioio a sleifpHi with a i 
thyme, safe, pspper, and sak, and' a very 
little chonied eschafet ; set Uw stewpan 
over the fire; when the butter is melted, 
stir Ike ia^radienu together, and take it off 
the fire, mixihej^ks of two egga with them, 
and dip the eel in, a piece at a time, and 
then roll them in bread-crumbs, making m 
mnch stick to them as you can; then rob 
thn gridwon with a bit of suet, set it high 
over a very clear fire, and broil your eels of 
a fine crisp brown. Dish them with crisp 
parsley, and send up with plain butler in n 
boat, and anchovy and butter. 

EGGS. (1) Eggs may be preserved for 
twelve months, in asweet and palatable state 
fiir eau'ng in the shell, or using for salads, by 
boiling ihem for one minute; and when 
wanted for um let them be boiled in the 
usual manner: the white may be a little 
tougher than a oew^d egg, but the yolk 
wiUshowi "" 



EGGS. (2) Poinr a ^km of 
over a pound of unslacked lime, stir it well ; 
the following day, pour off the clear water 
into a jar, and put in the 9gg» as they ara 
kid. In this manner they will continue 
perfectly good for six months or more. 

There are so many difierent wava of 
dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost 
fin a volume ; we have, therefore, given such 
as we esteem the best, and the most adapted 
to die English taste. 

EGGS AND BACON RAGOUT. 
Boil half a down eggs for ten minutes; 
throw them into coU water; pad them and 
cut them into halves; pound the volks in a 
marble mortar, with about an equal quantity 
of the white meat of dressed fowl, or veal, a 
little chopped parsley, an anchovy, an escha* 
lot, a quarter of an ounce of batter, a table- 
spoonfol of mushroom catchup, a little Cay- 
enne, some bread-crumbs, and a very little 
beaten maoe, or allspice; incorporate them 
well together, and fill dte halves of Uie 
whites widi Uiis mixture; do them over 
with the yolk of an egg, and brown diem in 
a Dutch oven, and serve them on relishing 
rashers of bacon or ham. 

EGGS AND BREAD. Put half a hand- 
fol of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a 
small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and 
nutm^, and let it stand till the Iwead has 
imbibed all the cream; then break ten egga 
into it, and having beaten them up together, 
fiy it like an omelet. 

EGGS AND CREAM. Boil half a pint 
of eream till i^uoed to half the quantity; 
than add eight eggs, season them widi sak 



t^a 



w 



SCO 



iMi pftit^Ti i»i1 thdn together, tUl tlw ((ggi 
iA^ portly Imrd ; pan a salamander over the 
tbp^ arid MJrve* 

EGGS A iA miPE. Cot into thick 
rtond flfioes a dozen of liftn!4xHfed eggn, 
and pnt them into the following sauce: ciit 
three larse white onions into dice, fiy them 
white in batter, and when neaiiy done, duet 
them with floiir, and moisten thiM with some 
ibilk and a few spoonfols of cre&m; keep 
MSrrhiti[ with a wooden spoon, to prevent 
Aeir Bumirig. When the sadoe is done, 
grate in a little nutmeg, season with a little 
ealt and pepper, and put in the eggs. 

fiGG dAIXS. Boil foikr eggs for ten 
fhinutes, and pot them into cold water; when 
ihey are quite cold, put the yolks into a 
mortar wiUi the yolk of a rkw eeg, a tea- 
spoonftil of flour, same of chopped pareley, 
(te much salt as will Ke on a slliUing, and a 
little black pepper, oT Cayenne; rub tliem 
well together, roll them into small balls (as 
diey swell in boiliiag); boil them a couple 
erf" Aiinntcs. 

EGGS BOILED, to *at ih tHb 
iHELi., OR FOR SALAi>8. The fresher 
laid the better: put them into boiling water; 
if you like the white just set, alwut two 
miritites boiflng is enoccfa; a new-laid ^g 
wiQ take a little more; if you Wish the youc 
to be set, it will take three, and to boil it 
hard for a salad, ten minutes. A new-laid 
egg will re(|uire boiling longer than a stale 
one, by half a minute. 



EGGS BOURGECnSE. SpRMd 
better oter the bottom of a dish, cover it 
entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, 
on tliat Ifiy thin slices of cheese, then eight 
or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper 
ttnd nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook 
gently tlU done. 

EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat and strain 
ten or twelve eggs ; put a piece oi butter into 
a saucepan and keep tumii^ it one way 
till mehed ; pnt in the beaten eg^, and stir 
them round with a silver spoon till Ihey be- 
come quite thick. Serve them in a dish 
upon buttered toast. They may be eaten 
wid) fish, fowl, or 



EGGS EN SURPRISE. Take a dozen 
egg», and make a small hole at each end of 
every egg, through which pass a straw and 
break tlie yolk ; then blow out the yolk care- 
folly. Wasli the shells, and having drained, 
diy tliem in the open air; mix tlie yolk of 
an egg with a little flour to chae one of the 
holes of tlie sliells, and when dry, All half the 
tramber by means of a small fonod, with 



choookCe cream, and the lymaiaiagifa «nik 
coffee or oFange-cream ; close the other end 
of your eggs, and put them into a sauoefMOi 
of liot water; set -them on the fire, taking 
care th^ do not boil ; when done, remove 
the cement from the ends; dry, and serva 
them on a foUed napkin. 

EGOS, FRIED. Eggs boikd hard, cut 
into slmes, and fried, may be served aa a 
second course dish, to eat with roaaled 
cliiekens. 

EGGS FRIED WITH BACON. I^y 
some slkses of fine streaked bacon (not more 
than a quarter of an inch thick) in a clean 
dish, ami toast them bdbre the fire in a 
che^-toaster, turning diem when the iq)per 
side is browned; first ask tkoee wiw are to 
eat die bacon, if diey wish it much or little 
done, t. e. curled and crisped, or mellow 
and Bftft: if the latter, parboil it first. Weil- 
cleansed dripping, or krd, or fresh butter, 
are the best fote for frying eggs Be soie 
the frying-pan b quite clean ; when the fiiC 
is hot, break two or three eggs into it; do 
not turn them, but, while they are firying, 
keep pouriner some of the fat over them wiw 
a spoon ; when the yolk just begins to kmk 
white, whk^ it wiU in about a coople of 
minutes, they are done enough; the white 
roust not lose its transparency, but the yolk 
be seen blushing through it: if they are 
done nicely, they will kxik as white and 
delicate as if they liad been poached; take 
tliem up with a tin slice, drain the iat fi« 
them, trim them neatly, and send them op 
with the bacon round them. 

EGGS FRIED, AND MINCED HAM 
OR BACOH. Choose some fine salt pork, 
streaked with a good deal of lean ; cut thia 
into very thin slices, and afterward inta 
small square pieces; throw tliem into a 
stewpan, and set it over a gentle lire, that 
they may lose some <^ tiieir fot. Wlien as 
mudi as will freely come is thus melted from 
tliem, lay diem on a warm dish. Put into 
a stewpan a ladle-foil of melted baxxm or 
lard ; set it on a stove ; put in about a doaen 
of the small pieces of bacon, dien stoop the 
stewpan and break in an egg. Manage tliia 
carefolly, and the e^ will firesently be done: 
it will be vei^ round, and tlie little dice of 
bacon wi]l stick to it all over, so that it will 
make a very pretty appearance. Take care 
the yolks do not harden ; when the egg a 
thus done, lay it carefully in a warm ^sh, 
and do the othem. 

EGG FRITTERS. Pound a domi 
hard boiled eggs with a little cream, and n 
quarter of a pound of beef marrow; then 
pound half a oozea macaroons, some bitter 



EOO 



71 



a little lagv, an 
mix theme with the pounded eggt^ and 'iurm 
tkeiB into firiUen, dip them into a batler 
■nde with flour, butter, sak, aod leoioa- 
peel; £7 them in Toy hot lard^spriakie su- 
fgar over, and lerve. 

EGGS FROTHED. Beat up the yolka 
ef «igfat eggs and the whites of (am (set 
aside the remaining whites) with a spoonfijl 
of water, some salt, sugar, and the juioe of a 
lemon ; fry this, and tlieo put it on a dish ; 
whip tbe lour whites (which were set aside) 
to a froth with sugar, and place it over the 
firied eggs ; bake it in a Dutch oven, or with 
a high cover fitted for the purpose. 

£(3GS, GLASS. Butter a dish, and 
Inak into it apiece of butter neoiiy as large 
as an e^: add a tea-cupful of cream, and 
dropin fouf or five egga; put upon each a 
little pqmr and sak, set the dish upon a 
stove, and serve it when the ^gs are firm, 
which may be in ten or fifteen minutes. 

EGG MARMALADE. (1) Blanch and 
pomd with a little rose water, two ounces of 
sweet almonds, the same of orange marmalade, 
and iuar (^citron ; add two spoonfuls of bran- 
dhr,aad when ({uilesmobth, the beaten yolks of 
sn and the whites of two ^s, with a little 
poonded loaf sugar; put it into a saucepan, 
and stir it till it becomes thick, then pour it 
mfco a shape. When auite cold, serve it, 
tamed out and garaished with flowers. 

E(3G MARMALADE. (2) Chrifyapound 
of sugar, keeping it rather tliick ; when cool, 
add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which 
diookl be perfectly fi-ee fitim the whites, and 
well stirred, but not beaten; set tliese on 
the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and 
dien ocmtinue to stir until sufficiently thick ; 
if any scam should arise, it need not be taken 
ofi", as the boiling and stirring will effectually 
remove it. Oiange-flower water may be 
added, if approved. 

EGGS, TO POACH. The cook who 
wishes . to display her skill m poaching, 
moBt endeavour to procure eggs that have 
been laid a couple m days — those tltat are 
(pite new-laid are so milky that, take all 
the care you can, your cooking of them will 
seklom procure you the praise of being a 
prime poacher; you must have fresh eggs, 
or it is equally impossibie. The beauty of 
a poached egg is for the yolk to be seen 
bliiRhing through the white, which should 
only be juBt suiracienthr hardened, to form a 
ttanspareat veil (or the egg. Have some 
faoili^ water in a taa-ketUe ; pass as much 
of it lEroagb a clean ckMh as will half fill a 
Mcv^aa; break the egg into « cup, and 



SE.9 



tht mm baih» I 

fiiom the stove, and gently slip the egg lal* 
it; k mi«t stand tall the while is set; iImi 
put it over a very moderate fire, aud as seoa 
as the water boils, the egg is ready ; take it 
up with a slice, and neatly itNMd eflf the 
ragged edges of the WMite; send tliem up oa 
bread toasted on one side oaly, with or with* 
out butter; or without a umsI, gamislied 
with itreaked baooo nicely fried, or slieae 
of broiled beef or mutton, anchovies, pork 
saianges, or spinage. The bread shouU be 
a little hunger thui the egg, and about a 
quarter of an inch thiek ; oaiy just give it a 
yelbw cokNr: if you toast it brown, it will 
^t a bitter flavour; or moisten it by pour- 
ing a little hot water upon it: some sprinkle 
it with a few drops of viaeigar, or of essoMt 
of anchovy. 



EGGS POACHED, 
miicsD Ham. Poach 
directed, and take two 
boiled ham; minoe it fie 
morsel of onion, a little 
and sak ; stew all 
hour; serve up your aai 
put the eggs in a dish, 
of half a i^'ille orai^, 
the sauee over them. 



WITH SAI70B Oy 

the eggs as before 
or three slices of 
e with a gherkin, a 
.and pepper 
a quarter of an 
about half boil lag; 
over tlie juiea 
or lemon, and pour 



EGG PUNCH. Take a punch^lase^ 
and put into it a wuie-glass of sirup of |iniich 
(see that article), and the yolk oif an egg; 
beat them together with a sputm, and then 
fill up the glass with boiling water, stirring 
a little as you pour it in. 

EGK3 TOAST. Put a glace of thick 
cream, some sugar, two or thitse macaroooe 
pounded, with a few abnonds, a little grated 
lemon, give them a boil; llien add tlw yolka 
of eig^t and whites of three egss, beat the 
whole up over a slow fire ; ^ed lay ea very 
thin slices of firied breaa; sprinkSs sugar 
over, and serve. 

EGG WINE. Beat up an egg, mix with 
it a spoonful of cokl water; set on the fire a 
glass of white wine, half a glass of water, 
sugar, and nutmeg. When it boib, pour a 
little of it to the egg by degrees, till the 
whr>le is in, stirring it well ; then return the 
whole into die saucepan, set it over a gentle 
fire, stir it one way fur a minute, not longer, 
fer if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will curdle; 
sei've witii toast. You may make it as almvOt 
without warming the ezgf nod it will be 
lighter on the sliwnach, ^Nigh not so agree- 
able to the palate. 

ELDER FLOWER FRITTERS. 

l^ey are made whikt the elder flnweni are 
in bloom; and they shoukl marinate thvea 



SND 



72 



ESP 



or four ham in brandy, 8opir,oraii^ower 
water, and lemon-fieel ; wben drained, dip 
them io a good thick batter .to fry, and aenre 
with rasped Mgar, as in general. 

ELDER ROB. Gather the elderberries 
fHben quite ripe, put them into a stone jar, 
tie a bladder or paper over the to|), and 
plaoe the jar in a pan of water ; let it boil 
tillHhe b«-ries are very softi strain them 
through a ooarae cloth, and to every pint of 
juioe allow half a pound of good brown su- 
gar; put it into a preserving-pan, stir it, and 
when it boils, take off the scum, and let it 
boil for one hour. 

ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- 
Ibwen when just bk>wn, take away all the 
■talks, and when the flowers are about 
half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar 
with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand 
in the sun for twenty days ; tlien draw it off, 
press the flowers, and having filtered the 
whole, boUle it; take care to keep the bot- 
tles closely corked. 

ELDERBERRIES. Can be made to 
produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- 
gallon cask forty pounds of fiuit, tony pounds 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of tartar. 
When elderberry wine is desired for a warm 
cordial, it is made in tlie following manner: 
— ^Twenty-five pounds of fiiiit are to be boil- 
ed for an hour, in eleven gallons of water, 
and abng with it, tied in a piece of linen, 
one (Mince of allspice, and two of ginger; 
forty pounds of sugar being put into a tub, 
the boiling liquor is strained over it, pressing 
the fruit quit6 dry ; a quarter of a pound of 
crude tartar, or cream of tartar, is then 
added to the liquid. When it has stood two 
days in the tub, it may be removed to the 
cask, treated, as for sweet wine, in tlie usual 
manner, and bottled in March following. 
Wlien to be drank, a portion of it is heatM 
with some sugar, two (m* three cloves, and a 
little nutm^. 

EMPOTAGE. Put into a large sauce- 
pan, three or four pounds of beefnsteaks, a 
knuckle of veal, and four old hens; moisten 
this quantity of meat with two ladlesfiil of 
broth; set it on a stove, and let it boil till 
properly reduced, taking care that none of 
the meui: buras, which would make the 
empotage of too high a color; fill up your 
saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, 
and onions; let all these ingredients stsuid 
over the fire for three hours and a half; then 
strain the whole through a silk sieve, that 
it may be pei-fectly dear. 

ENDIVE IN VELOUTE. Take off 
•11 the outer leaves of your endive, and having 



opened the hearts, put them into cold 
to wash them. In the meanwhile heat m 
kettle of water, put in it a handful ofsak, 
thm throw in die endive ; keep it coostantlf 
under the water, to prevent their turning 
black. As soon as the endive is tender, 
drain, and then put it into cold water, and 
when quite cold, drain it again ; press the 
water out with your hands ; then chop it 
small, and put it into a saucepan, with some 
butter, salt, and pq>per, stir it well, and 
then add five spoonfiils of v^loute, the same 
of con&omnu; reduce it till pretty thick, and 
then put it in a dish, with fi-ied bread round 
it. Endive may also be dressed with oneam, 
in which case, put two spoonfuls of flour into 
it, and mdisten it with cream. 

ENDIVE IN GRAVY OP VEAL. 

Wash and clean thorougU^ ten or twehw 
heads of fine oidive, take ofi'^tiie outer leaves, 
and blanch the heads in hot water ; throw 
them into cold water, and then squeeze them 
as dry as possiUe. Stew them in as much 
gravy as will cover them ; add a tea-epoon- 
fiilof pounded sugar, and a little salt. When 
perfectly tender, put in a little vekrate sanoe, 
and serve quite hot. 



ENTREE. There is no word precisek 
equivalent to this in English. Any didi or 
butcher's meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed 
for ^ first course, is called an entree, 

ENTREMET. There is no word equiv- 
alent to this in Engliidi. All dishes of veg- 
etables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, 1^ 
sters, and, in general, everything that af^aean 
in tlie second course, except the roast, is 
called an entremet, 

ESCHALOT WINE. Peel, minoe, and 
pound in a mortar, three ounces of esdmkits, 
and infiwe them in a pint of Sherry for lea 
days ; then pour off the clear liquor on three 
ounces more eschalots, and let the wioe 
stand on them ten days longer. This is 
ratiio* the most expensive, but infinitely 
the most elegant preparation of eschalot, 
and imparts the onion flavour to aoups and 
sauces, for chops, steaks, or bit>ik5d meals, 
hashes, &c. more agreeably than any: 
it does not leave any unpleasant taste m 
the mouth, or to the breath; nor repeat, 
as almost all other preparations of garlic, 
onion, &c. do. N. B. — ^An ounce <^ scraped 
horseradish may be added to the above, and 
a little thin-cot lemon-peel. 

ESPAGNOLE. T^e an okl fowl, and 
about fourteen pounds of le^ or shoulder of 
veal; chop the latter into pieces, and put it* 
with very little water, into a large sanoepaa, 
with two carrots, three onions, a poona of 



FIL 



W 



FI8 



t, a few pepperoorni, a aamD quantity of 
e, and a clave of garlic; let this stew 
over a laoderale fire, anakiog it frequeoU}^ 
t91 it beoomes of a brown color, whieo you 
■ay add to it a si^^ieat quantity of hot 
water, to oome about four incbee above the 
neat. Set it by the aide of the Ntove to boil 
gmtly, akinuning when Deeeaary, till the 
laeai comes fipoin the bouee ; then strain it 
dirougfa a silk sieve, and set it by for use. 

ESSENCE. Take halfa bottle of white 
wine, half a gfiiai of the best vinegar, tlio 
juice of two leuMMM, three ounces of salt, 
half an owioe of whole pepper, a little nut- 
meg and mace, four cloves, (bur bay-leaves, 
thyme, pardey, one small clove of garlic, leu 
(diallots, pounded, and an oanceof dry nittsh- 
rooms; piit all these ingredients into an 
earthen pan, over a brisk lire; when near 
boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand 
on hot ashes for six or seven hours; Uien 
strain it through a onarse sieve, and aAer- 
wards filter it. Keep it in dusely corked 
bottles: a small quantity is sufficient to fia- 



F. 



FANCHONETTES. Put into a 
pan, two ounces of flour, diree of sugar, one 
of butler, two of pounded almonds, some 
green leioon-peel, two yolks, and one whole 
cj^, a little salt, and lialf a pint of milk ; 
pnt these ingredients on the fire, and let them 
set like a cre;im ; line some tartlet-tins, or 
Bonlds, with puff paste, fill them with the 
pepamtioa ; place the moukls on a tin, and 
liake the fanehonettta in a brisk oven ; when 
about three parts djne, take them out, put 
fiothed ^gs on, sprinkle sugar over, and re- 
idaoe them in the oven to finish the baking. 

FAWN, Like a sucking pig, should be 
dressed almost as soon as killed. When 
very vouug, it is trussed, stuffed, and spit- 
ted the same aray as a hare: but thev are 
better eating adien of the siie of a liouse 
buab, and are then roasted in quarters ; the 
biad-quarter is most esteemed. 

They must be put doafn to a very quick 
fire, and either basted all the time they are 
roasting, or be covered with sheets of fat 
bacon; when done, baste it with butter, and 
dbedge it with a little salt and flour, till 
yoa make a i ice froth on it. 

N. B. — ^We advise our fi-iends to half 
raast a laam as soon as they receive it, and 
Iben make a hash of it. 

Send up venison sauce with it. 



FDUBERT ROLLS. 
7 



Having peded 



half a pound of filberts, put them into a 
preserving pan over a moderate fire, and 
atir them constantly with a spatula until 
they become e(|iially colored of a liglit yel- 
k>w: then set ihem to cuol. When cold, 
pound them with a little white of egg -to a 
paste; then mix them wiili half a |jouiid of 
flour, tlie same of powder sugar, and the 
yolks of four or five eggn, and (hen finish 
tlie operation as dii-ected for aimond rdh. 
Froth, and trace on the smface an ear of 
wheat, or anytliiug else, with Uie point of a 
knife: take cue to dry tltem well in dta 
baking, that they may be ciisp. LxMraa 
powder augar ina^ hLio be atrewed ove* , b^ 
fore tliey are put in tlie oven. 



FISH. fVe insert all the beat remarka 
that oariaua euiinar$ authon have mada 
on Fish. 

There is a general rule in choosis 
most kinds of fi^i ; if their gills are red, 
their eyes plump, and the wliole fish acilf, 
diey are good ; if, on tlie contrary, die gilla 
are pale, the eyea auak, and the tkh flabbv, 
ibey are atale.* The grealeat care aliouki 
be taken that the fish is properly cleaii«ied 
before bein^ diseased, but not waalied be- 
yond what IS absokitely necessary for ck;an- 
ing, as by perpetual wateiin^, the flavour 
is diminished. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boilod, stmie salt, aiid a little vine;^ 
should be put into the water, to give it 
firmness. Care should be taken to boil the 
fish well, but not to let it break. Cud, 
whiting, and haddock are mudi better for 
being a little salted, and kept for a day. 

Tlicre is cAen a mud;iv smell and taste ut- 
tached to ficsli-water neh, which may be 
got rid of by soaking it, after it has lieen 
diorouglily cleaned in stiong lait and wa- 
ter; or, if die fish is not too bige, scakl it 
in the aaine; then dry, and dtera it. 

Carealiould !« taken tliat tlte fi»li is fiit ii.to 
cold water, and allowed to do vety gently, 
otherwiae the outside will break bufuie il*e 
inaide ia done. 

Crimp fish must be put into hitilirgaiiter; 
and as soon as it boils up, a iiule cold 
water should be put in, to (■h('< k tlie exces- 
sive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. 

If die fish is not taken out of ilie water 
the instant it b done, it will l)«coine wixil- 
ly; to ascertain wlien it is leady, tlie fish 
plate on which it is dresaed may be drawn 
up, and if truificiently done, it will leave the 
bone. To keep hot for serving, and to 
prevent it from losing its color, the fish 
pUte should be placed crosswaya over the 
figiv-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fit«h. 

Small fish may be either nicely fried 
plain, or done over with egg and liread 
crumbs, and then fried. U|N>n tlie dit>h cm 
which the fish is to be served, sboukl bt 



FIS 



74 



FI8 



placed a folded damask napkin, and upon 
this put the fish, with the liver and roe; 
then garnish the dish with horsi>^radifih, 
Dorsley, and lemon. Fijsh is a disn which 
u almost more attended to« than any other. 

To fry or broil fish properly, after it 
is well cleaned and washed, it should be 
wrapf)ed in a nice soflr cloth, and when 
perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprink- 
led all over with very fine bread crumbs { it 
will look still better to be done oy^ with 
egg and crumbs a second time. Then hav- 
ing on the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan, 
with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot ; 
put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably 
quick till it is done, and of a nice brown 
yellow. If it is done before it has obtained 
a nice brown color, the pan should be drawn 
to the side of the fire, the fish carefully 
taken up, and placed either upon a sieve 
turned upwards, or on the under side of 
a dish, and pboed liefore the tire to drain, 
and finish browning; if wanted particularly 
oice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to 
receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a 
much finer color than when done in kurd or 
dripping. Butter shouki never be used, as 
it gives a bad oobr. Garnish your dish 
with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with 
fried parskiy. 

When fish is to be brofled, it must be 
seasoned, floured, and done on a vei'y clean 
Cridiron; which, when hot, should be rub- 
bed over with suet, to hinder the fish firom 
sticking. It should be broiled over a very 
dear nre, to prevent its tasting smokv, and 
great care must be taken not to scorch it. 

FISH. This department of the busi- 
■ess of the kitclien requires considerable ex- 
perience, and depends more upon practice 
than any other. A very few moments, more 
or less, will thoroughly spoil fish ; which, to 
be 3aten in p^fection, must never be put 
oo tlie table till the soup is taken off. 

So many circumstances operate on this 
occasion, that it b almost impossible to 
write general rules. 

Tliere are decidedly different opinions, 
whether fish should be put into cokl, tepid, 
or boiling water. 

Fish must by no means be aHowed to re- 
main in the water after it is boiled; if 
therefore it should be ready before it can be 
sent to table, it must be dished, the cover 
pit on, and a cloth ptrt over it. The dish 
IS then to be set across the fish-kettle. 

Fish should be fi-ied over a clear quick 
fire ; and with dripping, or hog's land in 
praforence to butler. The )ian shouki be 
deep; and to ascertain that it is clean, a 
little fiit is first fried in it, poured out, and 
the pan wiped with a clean cloth; as much 
dripping or lard is then put in as will en- 



tirely cover the fish. When it is 
liot, and begins to smoke, the fish is put in } 
if small, they may be turned in three or foar 
minutes, by sticking in a fork near the head 
with one hand, and with tlie otlier support- 
ing the tail with a fish-slice. When they 
are done, they should be laid before tlie 
fire upon an old soft towel, and turned nam 
and then till they are dry upon both sides; 
or they may be put upon a lai^ sieve, 
turned upwards, and which is kept for the 
purpose, or put OS the under side of a dish. 

The fire for broilii^ fish must be very 
clear, and the gridtros perfectlv clean, 
which, when hot, shouki be rubbed writh a 
bit of suet. Tfaie fish, while broiling, must 
be often turned. 

Sevoal r espectable fishmonsers and ex- 
perienced cooks have assured the editor, 
that they are often in danger of losing their 
credit by fish too ire^, and especially tnr<- 
bot and cod, which, like meat, require a 
certain time before they are in the beat ooo* 
dition to be dressed. They reoonunend 
them to be put into cold water, salted in 
proportion of about a quarter of a poond of 
salt to a gallon of water. Sea-water is 
best to boil sea-fish in. It not only saves the 
expense of salt, but the flavor is better. Let 
them boil slowly till done; the sign c^wrhich 
is, that the skin of the fish rises op, and 
tlie eyes turn white. 

It is the business of the fishmonser to 
clean them, &e. but the carefiil (MMik w^ 
always wash them again. 

Garnish with slroes of lemon, finely scrap- 
ed horseradish, fi'ied oysters, smelts, whit- 
ings or strips of soles. 

Tlie liver, roe, and chiUerlings should be 
placed so that the carver may observe them, 
and invite the guest to partake of them. 

Fish, like meat, requires more oookii^ 
in cold than in warm weather. IT it be- 
comes FROZEH, it must be thawed by tht 
means we have directed for meat. 

Fish are plenty and good, and in great 
variety, in all the towns and cities on the 
extensive coast of the United States. Some 
of the interior (owns are also supplied with 
fish peculiar to the lakes and rivers <^ this 
oountry. 

All kinds of fish are best sometime befeie 
they begin to spawn ; and are unfit for food 
for sometime after they have spawned. 

Fish, like animals, are fittest for the ta- 
ble when tliey are just foil grown; and what 
has been said respecting vegetables, applies 
equally well to fish. 

The most convenient utensil to boil fish 
in, is a turbot-kettle. This shuukl be 
twenty-fbiu' inches long, twenty-two wid^ 
and nine deep. It is an excellmit vessel to 
boil a ham in, &c, &c. 

N. B.— The liver of the fish pounded and 



FIS 



76 



FLE 



nixed with butter, with a little lemon-jnior, 
&c. IB an el^ant and inofiensive relish to 
fish. Musliroom sauce extempore or the 
toop of mock turtle, will make an excellent 



For liquids, yoo have meat gravy, lem<H>- 
^ice, sirup of lemoos, essence of anchovy, 
the various vegetable essences, mushroom 
catchup, and the whites and yolks of eggs, 
wines, and the essence offices. 

FISH, HEW METHOD OP DRE8SIH6. 

Take any sort of fish you thiiik proper, be- 
ing very careful that it is quite fiesh ; clean 
it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your 
taste; then put it (without any moisture), 
into a pan, which may be closely covered, 
with tlie exception of a small hoie, to allow 
of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon 
as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until 
the whole is so cnD^>letely dissolved, that 
the bones are not perceptible. When cold, 
this makes a very transpai-ent, 'Well-flavored 
jelly. 

FISH CONSOMME. Take carp, tench, 
perdi, eels, pike, and other fresh-water fish 
^the same kind; clean them well, and cut 
diem into pieces, as near of a size as may 
be; lay them in a stewpan, on a lay^ of 
sliced onions and carrots; an aoon as they 
begin to sweat, put in a bit of buttor, and 
leave them for a quarter of an hour; mois- 
ten them with fish broth, and let them boil 
' gently for an hour; keep the pan closely 
covered ; this will affi>rd a very nourishing 
broth. 

FISH KETCHUP. Take rather more 
than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red 
Port, two table*flpoonfuls of pepper, pound- 
ed very fine, plenty of shallots and horse- 
radish, the peel of half a iemon, and two or 
three bay-l^ves, and a pound of anchovies; 
let the whole boU together until the ancho- 
vies are dissolved, Uien strain, and when 
cold, put it into bottles. Two or three 
spoonfuk are sufficient for a pound of 
butter. 

FISH FORCEMEAT. Take two oun- 
ces of either turbot, sole, lobster, shrimps, 
or oysters ; free irom skin, put it in a mor- 
tar witli two ounces of fiesh butter, one 
ounce of bread-crumbs, tlie yolk of two eggs 
boiled hard, and a little esciialot, grated 
lemon-peel, and parsley, minced very fine ; 
then pcHind it well till it is tborooo^hly mixed 
and quite smooth; season it wim salt and 
Oi%«nne to vom* taste ; break in the yolk 
and white of one egg, rub it well together, 
and it is ready for use. Oysters parboiled 
and minced fine, and an anchovy, may be 
added. 



FISH GRAVY. (1) Cbttwoortbrae 
little fish of any kind into small pieces ; pal 
them into a saucepan, with rather toon 
H-ater than will cover them, a bit of toasted 
bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, 
whole pepper, and a bunch of .sweet hobs; 
let it sinuner gently till it is rich and good; 
brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, 
and when it is browned, strain the gravy in- 
fo it, and let it boil for a few r ' 



FISH GRAVY. (2) Put i 

of onion into a stewpan, and set them on 
the fire; when they are completely diawlvedj 
add a piece of butter, and some small fish, 
or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other 
you find convenient. As soon as they b^gin 
to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put 
a glassful of root broth to them, and boil 
thein for half an hour; then add a glaas of 
white wine, and a little lemon-juice, and 
boil it another half hour, when it may bn 
pressed through a sieve, witii great force. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (1) After pike, 
cod, skate, turbot, soles, or any otlier white 
fish has been diessed, pick ii from the bonei 
into small bits ; add to a pound of fish, or 
in the s.iaie proportion, half a pint of good 
cream, one table-spoonfiil of mustai'd, thn 
same of ancliovy essence, the same of ketch- 
up, and of HatTey sauce, a little flour, some 
salt, pepper, and butter; make it all hot in 
the saucepan, then put it into the dish in 
which it IS to be served up, strew crumbs 
of bread over it, and baste it with butter till 
it is a little moist, then brown it with a 
salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall 
of mashed potatoes round the dish is an im- 
provement. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (2) Pick fit>m 
the bone in large flakes about two pounds 
of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles; meh a 
quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of 
cream, with a little flour and salt; add tht 
fish and beat it thoroughly. 

FISH SAUCE. SeeSaueea. . 

FLEMISH WAFERS. Put into a 
deep pan half a pound of flour; strain and 
mix with it half a pint of warmed milk, and 
two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast ; work tiie 
paste till it be 8<ift and smooth, and place it 
m a stove, or close to the fire, to rise ; then 
add the beaten volks of six eggs, half a 
pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, 
and a lump of sugar which has been rubbed 
upon the peel of a lemon, and then pounded ; 
last of all, beat in lightly th$ well-whisked 
whites of the eggs ; a^in place the pan in 
a warm place, and it will rise to nearly 
double its bulk. Heat and rub the irons. 



FLU 



76 



FOR 



wbich should be square, with a little butter; 
fill one side with the mixture, and close 
them ; when one side is done turn the oth- 
er, and when of a fine color, take out the 
wafers; put them upon a plate, and whilst 
fauot, sift over Uiis quantity a quarter of a 
pound of grated loaf sugar. 

FLIP. To make a quart of flip:— Put 
the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up 
three or four eggs, with four ounpes of moist 
sugar, a tea-spuoniul of grated nutmeg or 
ffinger, and a quartern of good old rum or 
brandy. When the ale nearly boils put it 
into one pitcher, and the rum, e^;s, 9ic. in- 
to another; turn it from one to another till 
it is as smooth as pream. This is called a 
Yard of FUnmeL 

FLOATING ISLAND. Boil, with a 
pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, and half the 
peel of a lemon ; wlien almost cold, strain it. 
and mix with it the beaten white of one, and 
the volks of three eggs ; stir it over the fire till 
thicK, pour it into a dish, and stir it now 
and then till cold. Whisk the whites of 
two eggs, and half a pint of Guava, quince, 
or red currant jelly, till it be a very stiff. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (1) Put on a 

ftewpan with a sufficient quantity of watei* 
to cover the flounders which are to be dies- 
ccd ; put in some vinegaj* and horse-radish ; 
when tlie water boils put in the fish, having 
been fii'st well cleaned, and their fins cut off; 
they must not boil too fiist for fear they should 
bi eak ; when they are sufficiently done, lay 
them oil a fish plate, the tails in the middle. 
Berve them with parsley and butter. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (2) Wash and 
elean them well, cut tlie black side of tliem 
llie same as you do tiu-bot, then put them in- 
to a fish-kettle, with plenty of cold water 
and a handful of salt ; wlien they come to a 
(x)il, skiiu them cleun, and let tliem stand 
by tlie side of tlie fire for five minutes, and 
tliey are ready. Oba. — Eaten with plain 
melted butter and a little salt, you have the 
•weet delicate flavor of the flounder, which 
is o\e;|.owered by any sauce. 

FLOUNDERS or PLAICE, fried or 
BOILED. Flounders are perhaps the most 
diflSicult fish to fry very nicely. Clean them 
well, flow them/and wipe them with a di-y 
clodi to absorb all the water from them; 
flour or egg and bread-crumb them. 

FLUMMERY. Steep three large hand- 
iiils of very small white oatmeal a day and 
night in cold water; then pour it off clear; 
then add as ouich more water, and let it 
itand another day and a night, Tlien 



strain it tbroogh a fine hair sieve, and bol 
it till it is of the consistence of hasty pod- 
ding, keepine it well stirred all the time it 
is boiling. When first strained, pot to if ^ 
one tai^ spoonful of white sugar, and two 
of oi*ange-nower water. Pour it into shal- 
low dishes, and serve to eat with wine, ci- 
der, milk' or cream, and sugar. 

FLUMMERY DUTCH. BoU very 
gently for half an hour, two ounces of isin- 
glass in three half pints of water ; add a pint 
of white wine, the juice of three lenMHis and 
the thin rind of one, and rub a few Iou^m 
of sugar on another to ol^ain the easeocef 
and with them add as much more sii^ar as 
will make it sufficiently sweet; and having 
beatai up the yolks of seven eg^, give theio 
and the above^ when mlved, one scakl ; stir 
all tlie time, and pour the whole into a ba- 
sin ; stir it till it is half cold ; then let it 
settle, and put it into a melon diape. 

FLUMMERY FRENCH. Beat ao 
ounce of isinglass fine, put it into a qoart of 
cream, and mil it gentty for a quarter of an 
hour, keeping it stirring all the time. Then 
take it off, sweeten it with fine powder su- 
gar, put in a spoonfiil of rose and another 
of orange-flovk e." water, strain it throi^ a 
sieve, and stii- it till haH* cold. Put it vA» 
a mould or basia, and wh«ui cokl, turn it ii»> 
to a dish, and garnish with currant jelly. 

FONDUS. Put some grated cheese into 
a basin, witii pepper and a little melted bat* 
ter, and the yolks of eggs ; stir thesa togeth-- 
er ; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm 
fix)th, and add them, a Uttk; at a time, ta 
the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden 
spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as yoa 
can, and bake them, tike biscuits, in a 
moderate oven. Ser\-e them as quickly as 
possible after tliey are done. 

FORCEMEAT STUFFING. Forec 

meat is now considered an indispensable 
accompaniment to most made dishes, and 
when composed with good taste, gives ad-* 
ditioiial spirit and relish to even that ** sove* 
reign of savouriness," turtle soup. 

It is also sent up in patties, and for stoi^ 
fing of veal, game, poulti'y, &c. 

The ingredients should be so proportion* 
ed, that no one flavor predominates. 

.To give the same stuffmg for veal, hare, 
&c. argues a poverty of invention ; with a 
little contrivance, you niuy make as gi-eat 
a variety as you have dishes. 

The poignancy of forcemeat should be 
proportioned to the savouriness of the viands, 
to which it is intended to give an ad-iitional 
▼est. Some dishes require a very delicate- 
ly flavored foix^emeat, for others, \\ xbwX 



FOR 



77 



row 



faefiillandhigfafleafloned. Whatwoaldbe 
fiquanie in a turkey» would be iuipid with 
iBtle. 

«' Moot people have an aoc|aired and pecu- 
liar taale in atufiings, &G. and what exactly 
pfeoaes one, aeldoui is preciaely what an- 
odier considera the most agreeable. 

Custom is all in matters of taster it is not 
that one person is naturally food of thb or 
dot, and another naturally aTerse to it; but 
that one is nsed to it, and another is not. 

The oooaiatency of forcemeats is rather a 
£fficult thing to manage ; they are almost 
always either too light or too bearv. 

Take care to pound it till perfect^ smooth, 
and that all the ingredients are thorooghly 
inoorporated. 

Forceraeat4ialls most not be larger than 
a samU nutmeg. If they are for brown 
sauce, flour and fry them; if for white, put 
th»n into boiling water, and boil them for 
three minutes: tl^ latter are by for the most 
delicate. 

If not of sufficient stifibess, it folb to 
pieces, and makes woap, &c. grouty and 
very unsightly. 

Sweetbreads and tongues are the fovorite 
materials foi* forcemeat. Forcemeat should 
be made sufficiently omsistent to cut with a 
knife, but not dry or heavy. No one flavor 
should predominate greatly; according to 
what it its wanted for, a selection may be 
made finom the following list, being careful 
to use the least of those articles which are 
thernoBt pungent: 

Guki fi>wl, or veal, scraped ham, fat ba* 
eon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, 
whhe pepper, salt, nutmeg, volks ana whites 
of 4S«8, wrell beaten, to bind the mixture. 

'tSb fonoemeat may be made with any 
of these articles without any striking flavor ; 
therefore any of the folbwing difierent ingre- 
dients may 6e made use of to vary tlie taste. 

OysHen, anchovies, tarragon, savoiy , pen- 
ny-royal, knotted-marjoram, thyme, basil, 
yolks of hard eggs, cayenne, garlic, slialbts, 
chives, Jaooaica pepper in &oe powder, or 
two or three cbves. 

To force or stuff' turkeys, geese, ducks, 
fcc, see under die heads of the diflerent 
ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. 

FORCEMEAT. Take an equal quantity 
of ban veal scraped, and beef suet shred ; 
beat them in a marble uKHtar; add pepper, 
salt, cloves, pounded bmon-peel, and nutm^ 
giated, parsley and sweet herbs, chopped 
fine, a littb shaUot and young onbn, a few 
faread-Gnunfas grated fine, and yolk of egg 
isfficient to work it light; roll tins into 
halb with a littb flour; if for white sauce, 
boil them; if for brown sauce, fiy them. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH 
7* 



Soups, or Fish stewkd. Beat tha 
flesh and soft parts of a middling siaed bb* 
ster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boil- 
ed celery, the yolk' of a hard egg, a littb 
Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper^ 
widi two tabb-spoooAib of bread-crunfasy 
one spoonfid of oyster liquor, two ounces nf 
batter warmed, two eggs b»ten for a bqg 
time; nuke into balb, and firy them of a 
nbe brown color in butter. 

FORCEMEAT-BALLS roRTDRTLB, 
Mock Turtle, or Made Dishes. 
Found some veal in a marbb mortar ; rUb 
it through a sbve with as much of the udder 
as you iMve veal, or about a third of the 
quantity of butter: put some bread-cnraibf 
into a stewpan, moisten them with milk, 
add a littb chopped parsley and eschalot, 
rub tliem well together in a mortar till they 
form a smooth pnale; put it through a sieve, 
and, when cold, pouna, and mix all togeth- 



er, with 1 



I boiled hard ; 



h the yolks of three eggs in 
it with sak, pepper, wad curry pow- 
der, or Cayenne; and to it the yolks of two 
raw egg»; rub it well together, ar^ make 
small IwIIb: ten minutes before yoir soup b 
ready, put them in. 

FOWLS. When a cock b young, hb 
spurs are short ; take care that you are not 
deceived by their having been cut or pared, 
a trick that b often practised. If fi^h 
flieir vent will be close and dark. Hens 
are best, just before they begin to by, and 
yet are foil of egg; if they are old, their 
combe and legs are rough. 



All poukry should be very carefully pick- 
i, every plug removed, ancf t^ ' ' 
singed with paper. 



ed, every plug removed, ancf the hair nicely 



The cook should be carefol in drawing 
poultry of all sorts, not to break tlie fill- 
ing, for no washing will take off* tlie bitter 
wlwre it has touched. 

If for roasting, bbck-le§[ged fowb are 
the BMjst moist. A good«ized fowl will 
take from tliree^uarters of an hour to an 
hour in roasting, a middling-sized one about 
half an hour, and a very small oue, or chick- 
en, twenty minutes. 

Tame fowb require more roasting, and 
are longer in heating tlirougli than otiiers. 
All sorts should be continually basted, that 
they may be served with a fit>th, and appear 
of a fine cobr. The fire most be very quick 
and clear before any fowb are put down. 
Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or gar- 
nished with sausages or scalded parsley. 

A brae barn-door fi>wl, well hung, sliouki 
be stutifed in the crop with sausage-meat, 
and served with grsTy in the dish, and with 



The head should be tamed under th» 
wing, like a turkey. 



row 



78 



FOW 



For boiling, choose those that are not 
bbck-leggedi pick them carcfijily, singe, 
wash, and tniss tliein. Flour them, and 
{Nit 'them in boiling water ; a good-sized 
one will be done in half an hour. 

Serve with parsley and Uitter; oyster, 
lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If fi>r dinner, 
ham, tongue, or bacon, is commonly served 
with tliem. 

Fowls are trussed in the same manner as 
chickens. (See Chickens), 

Chickens or fowls should be killed at 
least ohe or two days before they are to be 



Turkeys (especially large ones) should 
not be dresHed till they have been killed 
three or four days at least, in cold weather 
six or eight, or they will neither look white 
nor eat toicler. 

Turkeys, and large fowls, should have 
the strings or sinews of the thighs drawn 
out. 

Truss them with the legs outward, they 
are much easier carved. 

FO\VL A LA HOLANDAISE. Make 
a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity 
of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, 
and some boiled parsley, season with pepper, 
salt, and grated lemon-peel, and an ^g 
beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a 
good-sized young fowl, put in the fbroeroeat, 
cover the fowl with a piece of white paper 
buttered, and roast it rather more than half 
an hour; have ready a thick batter made of 
flour, milk, and eggs, take off the paper, and 
pour some of the batter over the fowl ; as 
aoon as it becomes dry add more, and do 
this till it is all crusted over, and of a nice 
brown cofor ; serve it with melted butter and 
lemon pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. 

FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew 
a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton 
broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pep- 
per, and sak. About half an hour before it 
IS ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice 
well washed and soaked. Simmer till ten- 
do*; then strain it from the broth, and put 
tlie rice on a sieve before the &«< Keep the 
fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and 
the rice round it %vithout the broth. The 
Im liquor tlie fowl b done with, the better. 
Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for 



FOWL BROILED. Split tlie 
the back, weU salt and pepper them; then 
Serve with mushroom sauce. 



FOWL CAFILOTADE. Take the re- 
Mains of a ready dressed fowl, and put 
lAam into a siewpan; then do up some 
panfey, sbaUots, and four mushrooms, all 



shred small, in a little butter; as soon as the 
latter becomes liquid, add four ladlelula of 
espagnole, and two of eontomme, reduce, 
and skim it ; pour it on your fowl, met it od 
the fire to simmer for a quarter o€ an boor. 
before you send it to table. 

FOWL CURRY. See Citrry. 

FOWLS* DRESSED TO DRESS 
AOAiif. (3ut them in quarters, beat op an 
egg or two (according to the quanti^ you 
dress) with a little grated nudneg, aod pep- 
per and sak, scmie paralqr minced fine* aud 
a few. crumbs of bread; mix tbeae 'weD to- 
gether, and cover the fowl, &c. witb this 
batter; broil them, or put them in a IHrtch 
oy&n, or have ready some dripping hot in a 
pan, in which firy uiem a light brown color ; 
thicken a litde gravy with some floor, pot 
hu^ spoonfol of catchup to it, lay the 
in a dish, and pour the sauce roond it. 



t 



ou may garnish with slices <^ lemoti and 

toasted 



'2S 



ICT' Turkey, Goose, Duck, Rabbit, 
Pigeon, are all dressed same voay, 

FOWL, GAME, OR RABBIT hash. 
KD. Cut them into joints, put the trim- 
niin^s into a stewpan with a quart of 
the broth the^ were boiled in, and a laiige 
onion cut in four; let it boil half an hour .- 
strain it throusfa a sieve: then put two table- 
spoonfols of mmr in a basin, and mix it 
well by degrees with the hot broth ; set it 
on the fire to boil up, then strain it tlurough a 
fine sieve: wash out the stewpan, lay the poul- 
try in it, and pour the gravy on it (through 
a sieve); set it bv the sicfe of the fire to 
simmer very gently (it must not boil) fiir 
fifteen minutes; five minutes befiire yon 
serve it up, cut the stuffing in slices, and 
put it in to warm, then take it out, and lay 
It round the edge of the dish, and pat the 
poultnr in the middle; carefiilly skim the 
fot on the gravy, then shake it roond wdl 
in the stewpan, and pour it to the hash. 
N. B.— You may garnish the dish with bread 
sippets lightly toarted. 

FOWL HASHED. Gut a coM roasted 
fowl into pieces as for a fricassee, pot the 
tiiinmings into a saucepan with two or three 
shallots, a httle lemon-peel, a bbde of anaos, 
a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pint 
of stock ; simmer it for half an hoar, straia 
it, put a bit of butter into a saucepan, and 
when melted, dred(^ in as much flola as wil 
dry it up, stirring it all the time; then add 
thegmvy, let it b>i] a miaule, and pot in the 
fowl, also a little pepper, sak, and a dast of 
sugar. Before serving, squeeie in a lUtli 
lemon-juice. 



FOW 



79 



PRA 



FOWL IRNCSD WITH VEAL. 
V inoe ciie white part of a cold roasted ur 
ImUed fowl; pot it, and some thin slices of 
veal, into a muoepan, also some white stock, 
« aqa^bae of a leinoo, a few drapB of shallot 
▼inegar, and a dust of sugar; simmer it for 
a short time» and serve it upon bread sippets, 
with the slices of veal laid on the mince. 

FOWL PULLED. Skin a ooU chick, 
en, fowl, or turkey ; take off the fillets from 
Ifae breaste, and pot them into a stewpan 
with the rest of the white meat and win^, 
■ide^mDes, and merry-thought, with a pint 
of broth, a large blade of mace pounded, an 
eechaJoi minced fine, the juice of half a lem> 
en, and a roll of the peel, some salt, and a 
few grains ci cay«ine ; thicken it with flour 
and butter, and let it simmer for two or 
!B, till the meat is warm. In the 




e ^igs and rump, powder 
and salt, broil them nicely 



« great miprovement to it. 



FOWL OR RABBIT. We can only 
noommend this method of dressing when the 
fire 18 not good enough for roasting. Pick 
and tron it the same as for boiling, cut it 
open down the back, wipe the inside clean 
mth a cloth, season it with a little pepper 
and salt, have a clear fire, and set the grid- 
iron at a good distance over it, lay the 
chicken on with the inside towards the fire 
(you may e^ it and strew some grated 
Unead over it), and broil it till it is a fine 
bcowD : take care the fleshy side is not burn- 
ed. Lay it on a hot dish; pickled inusb- 
roome, or mushroom sauce thrown over it, 
or parale^ and butter, or melted butter fla- 
vored with mushroom ketchup. Gamisti it 
with slices of lemon; and the liver and giz- 
Burd slit and notched, seasoned with pep|)er 
and salt, and broil^ nicely iHrown, with 
t slioes of lemon. 



FOWLS WITH RICE, CALLED 
PiLLACE. Boil a pint of rice in as much 
water as will cover it, with black pepper, a 
few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves, 
tied up in a bit of cloth ; when the rice is 
tender, take out the spice; stir in a piece 
«f butter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon; 
by them in the dish, cover them with the 
rioe: lay round the dish, and up<Mi the rice, 
Inrd eggSj cut in halves, quarters, and 
lengthways, with onions, first boiled, and 
IfaeDfiried. 

FOWLS HOASTED. Well pepper 
4did sah the fowls before you spit them; 
; them liefora a clear iire^ firoth them 



op when nearly done, by snrinkling them 
over with flour and fhIi, and iKi^fi'ii; tliem 
witli butter. Wlien do^ie, Le t-aivriii in tak- 
ing out tlie akeweiti. Serve tlieiii with \evy 
good clear gravy in tlie dij4i, and bread ur 
^g sauce in a boat. 

FOWL ROASTED WITH aiEST- 
NUTS. Roast MJine diestiiiitJi venk' rare- 
folly, so that they may not be Ijunit, tlien 
take off the skins, and peel tltein. Take 
about a doxen of them, cut tlieui Miiiall, and 
bruitie them in a mortar. ParUtil Uie livei 
of a fowl ; bruise it, and cut abtHit a f|iuiiier 
of a pound of ham or bacon, and piHJiid it. 
Then mix them all togetlier, hIiIi a good 
quantity of chopped parsley, swcx't lieibs, 
some inacx, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Wlien 
these are are all well mixed togetlier, put it 
into your fowl, and roast it. The be^t wa^ 
of doing diis is to tie tlie neck, atid liang it 
up by tlie 1^ to roast, with a string, and 
then baste it with butter. For sauce, take 
the retft of tlie chestnuts, peel and ttkin tliem, 
put tliem into some good ^"avy, u itii a little 
white wine; and thicken it widi a ])iece of 
butter rt)lled in* flour. Tlien place your fowl 
in tlie disli; pour in the sauce; garnish with 
lemon, and serve. 

FOWL WITH rrS OWN GRAVY. 
Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it 
qui*e through witli bacon, ham, and pars* 
ley ; put it in a pan with a little Ixitter, two 
or diree slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, three cfoves, sliced onions, 
carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a 
glass of white wine; stew them gently till 
th^ are done ; irkim and strain the sauce, 
and serve it with the fowl. 



FOWL, WILD. The flavor of wiW 
fowl is preserved better by not stufling tliem ; 
put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of but- 
ter. Wild fowl do not require so much 
dressing as tame ; they should be done of a 
fine color, and nicely frothed. A rich brown 
gi*avy should be served in tlie dish, and when 
the breast is cut into slices, before it is taken 
from tlie bone, it will be much improved by 
a squeeze of lemon, some salt and pepper. 
If you wish to take off the fishy smell wnich 
tliese. birds frequently have, put an onion, 
salt, and hot water into the dripping pan, 
and (ac tlie first ten minutes baste tliem with 
this ; tlien remove the pan, and keep con- 
stantly basting with batter. 

FRAISE. See CkUfa CkUterUngi. 

FRANGIPANE. Tak« a saucepan, ai»l 
put into it five spooirfiils of flour, five cgni, a 
pint of milk, an ounce of butter and a little 
salt; set it on the fire, stirring constant^ 



I 

J 



PRE 



80 



FRl 



until it has boiled ten minutes, taking great 
care Uiat it dues not burn ; then pour it into 
a basin, and let it cool. Take a few al- 
monds, (to eveiy six sweet put one bitter), 
bruise them, and iK>me macaroons, and when 
reduosd to powder, mix them with a little 
crisped orange-flour (also in powd^), and a 
suflirient qu^tity of powder-sugar to sweeten 
it: add tliese to' the above preparation, and 
stir tiiem in well with a wooden spoon. If 
your frangipane be too thick, add another 
egg or two, and then make whatever use of 
it you may desire. You may, if you think 
proper, stihstitute pistachios for the sweet 
ahnondii, in which case a little spinach es- 
sence muftt be added to color it, the maca- 
roons and orange-flowers omitted, and three 
bitter almonds only used. 

FRENCH BEANS. Cut oflT the stalk 
end fli-8t, and then turn to the jwint and 
strip ofl^ the strings. If not quite fresh, liave 
a bowl of spring-water, with a little salt 
dissolved in it, standing before you, and as 
tlie beans are cleaned and stringed, throw 
them in. When all ara done, put them on 
tlie Are in bulling water, wifli some salt in 
it ; after they have boiled fifteen or twenty 
minutes, take one out and taste it ; as soon 
as tliey are tender take them up; throw 
tliem into a colander or sieve to drain. To 
send up tlie l)eans whole is much the be;$t 
mediod when they are thus young, and their 
delicate flavor and color are much better 
preserved. When a little more grown, they 
must be cut across in two after stringing ; 
and for common tables they are split, and 
divided across ; cut Uiem all tlie same length ; 
but those who are nice never have them at 
svch a growdi as to require splitting. When 
tliey are very large they look pretty cut into 
k>zenges. 

FRENCH BEANS, NASTURTIUMS, 

&c. When young, and most other small 
green vegetables, may be pickkd the same 
way as giierkins. 

FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER 
USE. Gather them when young, and on a 
dry day, put a layer of salt into a jar, and 
then oiie of about two inches diick of beans; 
do this till the jar be nearly full ; place a 
small plate upon the top of them, and tie a 
bladder closely over the jar; keep it in a 
cool dry place. When to be used, soak 
them a night in cold water, and change it 
on them repeatedly in the course of tlie day 
they are to be dreased. Cut them, and put 
thm on in boiling water. 

FRENCH BEANS TO DRESS 
PRIED. Boil for more than two hours, in 
two quarts of water, » pound of the soedB or 



beans of scarlet nmners; fill* a pint bona 
with onions peeled or sliced, brown them Id 
a saucepan, with rather ommv than a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh bottor ; stir them con- 
stantly; strain the water fitmi the beans, 
and mix them with the ooions ; add a tea- 
spoonflil of pe|[^r, some salt, and a littlo 
gravy. Let them stew for ten minutes, and 
stir m the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a 
table-spoonftil of vinegar. Serve tnem hot. 

FRENCH SUPPER DISH. Pare off 
the crust, and cut one or two slices of brrad 
into bits of two or three inches square; fiy 
them in butter; put them upon a hot dish, 
and lay upon each bit some warmed preserve, 
or stew for a few minutes, in swe^ wine 
and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raisins, 
and pot them upon and round the toast. 
The preserves may be heated faj placing the 
jars m hot water by the side of the fire. 

FRIARS' CHICKEN. Put four poon^ 
of a knuckle of veal into four quarts of wa- 
ter ; boil it gently for two hours ; strain it 
off*; cut three chickens, or two young fowls 
into joints ; skin tliem, and when the broth 
boils put them in ; season with white pepper 
and salt; let them boil a shMt time, wid 
add a handfiil of parsley chopped small; 
when the chickens are boiled tender, have 
i-eady six or seven well*>beaten egga; stir 
them quickly into the broth one way, imme- 
diately before taking it off the fii^. This 
broth may be made entirely of veal ineteMl 
of chickens. 

FRICANDELLANS. Minoe aboot two 
pounds of tender lean beef, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of fiesh suet, then pound it 
till it be as smooth as a paste, luid carelidfy 
pick out all the threads and sinews ; add four 
well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich cream, 
and as much grated and sifted bread as will 
make it sufliciently consistent to form into 
rolls resembling corks, and season it with 
salt, and pepper. Boil the corks in aonie 
good stock, or in boiling water. 

FRICASSEE BROWN. Take two or 
three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and 
stew tnem in gravy made of beef, some v.-hole 
-pepper, two fihaliots, one or two anchovies, 
a bit of horse-radisli, and a little sweet mar- 
joram powdered small. Stew the rabbili 
about a quarter of an hour, then take 



out (^the gravy, strain the liquor,firy y«iur 
rabbits in lard or butter; add a glaas of 
claret; yon may fry some forcemeat bnlb, 
made with the livers of the rabbits parboiied, 
and a little parsley shred small, some n 
grated, pepi er, salt, a few bread a 
and two buttered eggs; mix these all to^ 
gether, make tbem op into balb, djp than 



FBI 



81 



FRI 



Ib the jelk of esf» foil tlHia in ilo«r, 
then fry them, and garnish tout dkh with 
them, with fried panfey, and sliced lemoo. 

FRICASSEE WHITE. Cot a ooople 
of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in 
warm water to cleanse them from the blood; 
then lay them in a cloth to dry ; pat (hem 
into a stewpan with milk and water, and let 
them Blew till they are tender, and then take 
a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of 
cream, and a quarter of a pound of outter; 
•tir them well together till the butter is mek* 
ed; be car^l to keep it constantly stirring, 
or it will be greasy ; put in the rabbits, take 
a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, 
and a few mushrooms; shake them together 
for a few minutes, and then put it to the 
rabbits. You may add white wine if you 



FRIED TOASTS. Cbt the crumb of 
a tw openn y loaf into round or oblong pieces, 
nearly an mcfa thick, and soak them for four 
or five hours in a pint of cream, mixed with 
three weU-bealen ens, half a pint of while 
wine, a little grated nutmeg, and sweetened 
wkh pounded loaf sugar. Fry thism in but- 
ter, till of a light broivn color, and serve 
wi^ wine and sii^gar sauce. 

FRITTERS. (1) Make them of any of 
the batters directed for pancakes, by dropping 
a small quantity into the pan, or make the 
plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and 
eorad in the batter, and fry some of it with 
tack slice. Currants or sliced lemon, as 
thin 99 possible, ai« very nke, 

FRITTERS. (2) Fritters shmild be sent 
to table served upmi a folded napkin in the 
diA, Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, 
may be made into.fritteni. 

FRITTERS, ENGLISH^AND. 
FREIS'CH. Take a marrow pudding, and 
when nearly cold, cut it into thin slices, and 
then cot tiiem again into pieces two inchee 
long, 1 y tbi^ee-quarteni of an in^ wide, dip 
them into batter, and fry th^n in the usual 
manner ; when drained, glaze them with fine 
sugar, and serve tliem^ very hot. Tlie batter 
for the above fritters is nmde as follows :i^ 
Put a glass and a half of water, a grain of 
salt, and two ounces of (i^csh butter into a 
Huaeepan ; when it boils stir in a sufficient 
quantity of flour to make it a rather firm 
batter, 'keep it stirring three minutes, then 
pour it into another vessel, 

FRITTERS A tA DAUPHINE. 

Take a pound of brioeke paste, and roll it 
out as ttun as possible, to the foim of a long 
si|uare; on part of this lay small quantities 



of apricot mamalade at intervals, sYlglhdf 
wet the paste round each pieneof pmsu ve^ 
and lay over the plain part of the paste ao ae 
to cover the other eomplelely, pre« it down 
lightly that the marmabde may not earape 
in the cooking, and cut ouC your fritlem 
with a circular paste^cutler of twu iiichee ia 
diameter; flour them a little, add then hy 
them in rather a hot fritura, wliea the fmM 
will swell them into little balls; as soon aa 
they are of a proper oolur take then out, 
drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with 
fine sugar, and larve ihem. 

FRITTERS A LA COTE. Soak ia 
brandy some leaves and the young and im* 
der sboota of the vine, dip them in a batter 
made of milk, yolks of egn, and flour, 67 
them in boiling oil, sprinkw them witli su- 
gar. Elder flowen are made into friiiera io 



FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix to- 
gether a handfol of rice-flour and some milk, 
set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add 
a little ci^eam, sv^gar, lenion-peel, and (imnge* 
flowers; v^ien it Ihu» beouine of a pn>|:er 
consistence, take it from the fire ; as sooo 
as it is cold, roll it into bails about the siae 
of a nut, dip them in baiter and fry lliem. 



FRITTERS BLONDIN. Put 
butter into a saucepan, and whum it is melt- 
ed add to it a glass of milk, aiid a pinch of 
sah, keep it on tlie fire till it boib ; theq 
mix in a sufl^r.ient quantity of flour to niaka 
it into a consistent puste, which will not 
stick to the fiiigeni{ spretid it on a talile, 
roll it out to the thickness you may rctjuire, 
cut it in round, oval, or any otiier fimned 
pieces you may think proper, and fry them of 
a nice oolur, m the best oil; sprinkle wgar 
over, and serve tliemf 

FRITTERS, FRENCH, OF BRAN. 
DY FRUITS. Take a doien apricots 
(or other fruits) preserved in braiuly, drain, 
and cot them in half: dien wrap tliein in wa^ 
fers cut round and pieviously nio,i«ten«Hl, Hip 
them in tlie same kind of better as that med 
for fritters flnglish'-and-Prtnchj and fiy 
them ; sprinkle Uteni with sugar, and sene. 

FRITTERS EN SURPRISE. Take 
eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave 
on the sUilks ; cut oft' about a tbtiitli f >Hit of 
tile stalk end of each apple, and i^^uop out 
tlie inside of eiicii piece, iiu as to form a t«>rt of 
cup with a lid ; put them to sotik for two iHMirs 
in a glass of brandy with a littkf lemon-t)eel 
and cinnamon ; at tlie end of tliat time bike 
tliem out, drain, and fill ifarh apple with 
apricot nianualuide, or frangipant* ; mix np 
a little flour imd wl)il« of egc: to <%a)<;nt tlw 



FRO 



82 



FR0 



tops of the apples to the other parts; dip 
them in batter and fry tlMm. When they 
are of a proper color, gfaue and serve them. 

FRITTERS MIGNON. Put two good 
spoonfuls of flour into'a stewpan, and mix 
it with the whites and volks-of two eggs, a 
little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon- 
peel grated, half a tea-epooniiil of milk, and 
naif a tea-spounfiil of cream ; stir it over a 
slow fire, and, when done and well tliickoy- 
ed, spread the cream upon a floured disn, 
shake flour over it, and, when cok), cut it 
into bits with a paste-cutter, dip each bit 
into a paste made with two spoonfuls of 
floor, a spocNifiil of bram^, and a little salt, 
mixed witli two eggs; fry the fritters, and 
serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. 

• FRFTTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart Of 
new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it 
begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine ; 
thra take it oft, and let it stand five or six 
minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a 
basin ; beat it up well with six ^gs, and 
season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a 
whisk, and add flour suAicient to give it the 
pioper consistence of batter. Put in some 
sugar and fry them quick. 

FRITTERS, SOUFFLES. Make 
pome flour and beer into a batter that will 
flow a little; take a little of it out with a 
■poon, throw it into a filing-pan with boil- 
ing oil ; tlie moment it rises, take it out, 
ami proceed in the same way till all the bat- 
ter is used; then sfNriukle them with salt, 
and serve. 

FROMAGE CUIT. Gut half a pound 
of Qieshire cheese into thin bits, and pound 
it in a mortar; add I7 degrees the well- 
beaten yolks of two, and the white of one 
ef^t and lialf a pint of cream ; mix it well 
tugiether and bake it for ten or fifteen min- 



FROST OR ICING FOR CAKES. 
Beat till very light the whiles of four eggs, 
and add gradinlly threeKjuarters of a pound 
of ckMibl^ivfiiied sugar, pounded and sifted 
thruiigli a lawn sieve ; mix in the juice of 
half a lemon; beat it till very li^ht and 
white; pkice the cake before the me, pour 
over it tlie icinv, and smooth over the top 
and sides witli the back of a spoon. 

FROTH TO PUT ON Cream, Cus- 
TAKIJ, OR Trifle. Sweeten half a pound 
of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of 
scalded fruit ; put to it the whites of four 
1^ beaten, and beat the pulp with them 
till it will stand as higli as you wisli, and 
being put on the cream, &c, with a spoon, 



it win take any form; it diodd be roag^ 
to imitate a rock. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (1) It must first be 
preserved, then dipped in warm water, dried 
with a ck>th, and strewed all over with sift- 
ed sugar, and dried in a stove or oven, turn- 
ing as occasion requires. 

FRUITy CANDIED. (2) When the 
fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove tiU the 
sirap is quite out, dip it into sirup boiled to 
candy hei^t, and dry it again. All dried 
and candied firuit must be kept in a very 
dry place. 

FRUIT IN JELLY. Have in readineas 
a plain mould, eitho' long or round, about 
three inches deep; thai have, ready some 
mouki jelly, and spread it at the bottom 
of the mould, about a quarter of an inch 
thick; letitbecoki; then put in ripe peach- 
es, grapes, or any sort of ripe firait yoa 
please, preserved finit, or CSiina oranges 
cut into quarters, w whatevo* shape yoa 
choose ; put in a little warm jelly, and let it 
stand till it is cold, to fasten the fiiiit in its 
pbce, otherwise it will rise np; tknea fill flie 
mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it 
}B quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and 
garnish it according to your own taste. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, REMARKS 
ON USING. Preserved fiuits sboold not be 
baked long ; those that have been p ie s erve d 
with their full proportion of sugar, require 
no baking; the crust should be Inked in a 
tin shape, and the firuit be afterwards added ; 
or it may be pot into a nnall dish or tart- 
pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cot 
out according to your taste. 

FRUIT, TO prepare for Brahdt. 
Take the proposed quantity of firuit, gather- 
ed before they are perfectly ripe ; dry them 
carefully, p-ick and put them into ooki water ; 
wlien air in, set the vessel over a moderatt 
fire, keeping the water, however, oonstandy 
nearly boiling, until the fruit will give to thie 
toucli; then tlirow them, with gi'eat care, 
into cold water again ; drain away this wa- 
ter, and add fi-esh ; change the water twice 
more within a quarter of an hour, after 
which, drain them for the last time, and put 
them in bottles; if any of the firuit is the 
least broken or bniised, it must be put aside, 
as it would spoil the rest. In the mean- 
while, take a proper quantity of sugar (as a 
pound and a half for twenty-five peaches); 
clarify and boil it to to nappe: measure, 
and put double its quantity of good brandy; 
mix and pour them into a ghaed pan; Ht 
tliem stand awhile, and then pour uie mix- 
ture on the ftvit. 



GAM 

PRJOTt TO PREPARE FOR CHIL- 
DREN. Put apples siioed, or plums* air- 
neberries, &c. into a stdne jar) wu\ 
i as nuicb Lisbon sugar as rteoessary 
among tbem ; place the jitron a hot hearth, 
or in a aauoepao of water, and let it remain 
tiO the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of 
bread or rice may be stewed with tlie fruit, 
or the fimit may beeaten with slices of diy 
fanad, or with rice, plain boiled* 



G. 

GABIE. In choosing venison, the lat of 
that which is good is thick, clear, and bright ; 
(he clift part smooth and cluae. When the 
ven i son is perfectly fi^esh, it is hung in a cool 
niarr, and carefiuly wiped dry every day. 
vHien extreme tenderness is required JBrocn 
long keeping, but without its having a high 
iavcNT, it is well rubbed over witli powdered 



8» 



ttAli 



The haonch is the prime joint, and when 
it is required to be roasted, it is first well 
washed in lukewarm milk-and-water, and 
dm noade quite drv before it is spitted. It 
is then oovmd with a sheet of well4iuttered 
white paper, over which is bid a coarse 
paste of flour-nnd-%rater, about a quarter of 
an inch thick; this is again covered with 
buttered white p^Kr, and tied on with pack- 
thread. A sufaetantiai fire being made, the 
hanndi is pot down, and constantly beusteil 
with fresh beef dripping, till nearly done, 
when the paste is taken oflT, the meat well 
basted with butter, and lightly dredged with 
flour, till it froths and becomes of a fine light 
brown color. It is served with its own gra- 
vy in the diiUi, if there be enough of it ; also 
a sauce tureen of good brown gravy, and 
one of corrant jelly sauce beat up, and melt- 
ed with a tittle Port wine and sugar. 

A large haunch takes about four hours to 



I A neck and shouUer, when roasted, is 

managed in the same way as the haunch, 

\ omitting the paste ; but it is more frequently 
used for soups, pasties, and colbps. 

[ Hare. — ^When fresh, the body is stiff; 

' and if young, the cbws are smooth and 
riiarp, the ears tender and easily torn. 
Hares are kept from a week to a fortnight 
for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have 
been too recently killed. 

Rabbite are choam by the same rules as 



Wild fowl, in general, is chosen by the 
rules as tame poultry. The birds 
I be plump and fiit, and hard in the 
If the skin comes off when rubtied 
hard with the finger, they are stale. Okl 
birds improve by keeping for sometime; 



t^Jtl 



Urds am hMH if diesssd sdoa; n^ 
birds; of all descriptions, shouU b« 
immedial^ d res wd; In warm weather, « 
stoppjfr of .ch«rcual riioukl be (Mtt into tho 
vent of all game, and a string tied tightly 
round the neckt 

To roast pheasaMs apd phrtridfles^ thef 
are picked, clearted, and nic«lv smgnd; 4 
slit is made in die back part of the rtedk«hdd 
the craw taken out, leaving on the head, tho 
foet twisted ckisoly to the body, the chi«« 
cut off, and the head turned uncier the wiqg. 
Both sorts are roasted by the directions for 
roasting a turkey or a fowl. A pheasant it 
served witli gravy in the didi; partridge* 
with a gravy, or bid upon buttered toast* 
and mdted butter poured round them. Bread 
sauce is sened with both. A pheasant will 
require nearly an hour to roast; partridge* 
half an hour. Guinea and pea-fowl am 
roosted in the same uray as pheasants. 

To roast bbck-cock, folfow the directioM 
for niosting pheasants and partridges ; it 
will re(|uire an hour, and is served with gra- 
vy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 



Moorfowl are roasted in the i 
and re(|uire three^iuarters gf an hour. They 
may be served upon buttered toast, or wim 
gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a aanoa 
tureen. 

To restore tainted game or pouStiy, fAck 
it carefully, clean, and wash it, then put into 
each birda little newly-nude pounded char- 
coal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before serving, 
take out the bag, which will Itave a most 
offensive smell, while the bird will be left 
perfectly sweet. 

To roast wikl duck.— It should be roasted 
by a quick fire, well basted with butter, and 
browned. It will rerioire nearly threeH|iiar- 
tere of an hour, and when to be ser\'ed, some 
beef gravy is poured throu^ the duck into 
the dish, and in a sauce ti^een some hoC 
Port wine is served. The carver makes 
four cuts klong the breast, it is then sprin- 
kled with salt and a little Cayenne, the juioe 
of half a lemon is squeezed over it, and die 
Port wine is then poured all over. 

To roast a wikl goose, the same directions 
are foUowed as for wiU duck, albwing 
more time to roai*t it, according to the siae 
of the bird. 

Widgeons and teal are dressed in the 
same manner as the wikl duck, and are 
ruested in ten minutes, and may be served 
upon fi-ied bread crumbe. 

Woodcocks and snipes are roasted with- 
out being drawn ; a piece of toasted bread 
buttered is put under each bird, to catdi the 
trail ; they are well basted with butter, and 
served upon the hot toast over which they 
were rousted ; a rich brown gravy, or tnelt- 
i ed butter, is poured round them. Wood 



GAM 



84 



CAf 



eodu will require balf an hov, nipes amd 
quaib fifteen or twenty ininuteB to roast. 

Ortolans and sreen plovers are notdrawn, 
and ai« roasted and served in the aame 
manner as woodcocks. 

To roast laiks, wlieateara, and other 
•mall birds, diey are nicely picked, gutted, 
cleaned, and trussed; brushed over with 
melted butter, and rolled in ^-ated bread, 
then s|)itted un a bird spit, which is ^tened 
npon a larger one. They are basted witli 
butter, and sprinkled with scHne bread 
crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen 
minutes to roast, and are served vpoa firied 
bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce 
tureen. 

Wild pigeons may be roasted, or made 
into a pie. 

Plovers' eggs are boiled hard, and served 
in a napkin, or with gi^een moss put round 
each in tlie dish. 

GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four 
rabbits, four paru-idges, two pounds of veal, 
two pounds of steaks; put them into a 
stewpun, with a bottle of white wine; boil 
them until the whole is entirely reduced to 
a jelly ; dten add to it broth, and conBomme, 
(e(|ual <|4iantitie8 of each), eight carrots, ten 
onions, three cloves, a little Uiyme and ba- 
sil ; let tlie whole boil very gently, until the 
meat is <|uite done ; then strain it ihroogli a 
napkin. No salt need be put into it, as die 
broth and consomme are sufficiently season- 
ad to flavor the eBsence of game, 

GAME FRITTERS. Take any of 
those parts of cold roasted game, whicii can 
be cut into tliin slices, dip them into eood 
batter, and firy them in olive' oil, or Lrd. 
Sprinkle the frittera when done, with salt 
and spices, pounded very fine. 

GAME HASHED. See FowL 

GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE. Pound 
half a dozen cbves of garlic; rub them 
throu^i a silk sieve, with a wooiden spoon ; 
put this into a mortar with some butler, and 
Leaf it until thoroughly inoorporated ; then 
put tliia butter into any sauce you please. 

GARLIC, ESSENCE OF. Take an 
earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put 
into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of 
vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six ck>ves 
of garlic, tlie same number of cloves, the 
f]uarter of a nutmeg, and two bay-leaves: 
wlien near littiling, reduce the fire, and let it 
einnd on hot aslies for seven or eight hours ; 
strain it through a oiarse sieve, and th«i 
filter it. Keep it in very ckisely corked 
buttles. A very small quantity ol tliis es- 
•nee is requisite Co impart its fiavortoadish. 



GARLIC GRAVY. Slice a pound and 
a half of veal, or beef; season it with pep* 
per and salt; put it into a stewpan, with 
two carrots split, and Ibor cloves of garlic 
sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced faani, 
and a large spoonfiil of water ; put the stew- 
pan over a gentle fire, and waCdi when the 
meat begins to stick to the pan ; when it 
does, turn it, and let it be very well browned, 
(but take care that it is not in the IbmI 
burnt) ; then dredge it with fiour, and pour 
in a quart of broth, a bunch of sweet herix, 
a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a 
lemon ; set it on the fire again, then let it 
simmer gentlv for an hour ami a half longer ; 
then skina oif tlie fet, and strain off the gra- 
vy, by pouring it through a napkin^ atrain* 
ing ano pressing it very hard. 

GATEAU DE COMPIEGNE. Take 

three pounds of fiour, two pounds of I 
an ounce and (bar draduaaa of ^ 
ounce of salt, a quarter of a poond of si^gar, 
a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve 
wlH>le eggs, and five or six spoonftils of 
whipped cream. 

With these iiffliedientB proceed as iblfewa: 
sift the flour, of which put a fiiurth part mt 
the slab, make a bole in the middle, put intc 
it a glass of warm water and the yeast ; mix 
them together as ligiitly, and with as much 
despatch as possible, adding more wann 
water if necessary ; when well worked up 
for some minutes, gather it together, (it 
ought to leave the slab and the hand fireeW) » 
put it into a saucepan ; cover it, and pnoe 
It in a tolerably warm situatran to rise. 
Take the'rest of the flour, by it on the abb 
make a hob in the middle of it, in which 
put the sah, sugar, and cream; stir these 
together well, am then put in the c«b, one 
at a time, (break them into a basin, m case 
all shcuild not be good) ; the eggs being pot 
in, add by d^^rees the butter, stirring (hem 
well ; then mix the flour, a littb at a time, 
with the above, until the whob m formed 
into a smooth paste; more eggs must be 
added if it be too stiff; work it up a iitib, 
and then add tlie leaven ; wmk that in ; and 
lastly, put in the whipped cream. The 
whole operation being thtis performed, have 
ready a cylindrical fluted mould, (aboot 
eight inches in diameter, and nine in height) ; 
butter it by means of a sponge, being car^ 
fol diat it IS done in all fMuts, otherwise the 
gaUau will adhere to it; pbce die mould 
in a moderately warm pbce, but where 
there is a fiiee current of air. When the gth 
ieau has risen so as to fiU^ the modd, and 
the surfiux is a littb inflated, it should be 
nit into the oven instantly, if not, it fiilb and 
becomes heavy. The oven must be of a 
moderate heat, and kept cbaed whib the 
gaUau k baking; take it out in «buiiil M 



G-H£ 



85 



GIN 



hour, and if it be flexible and 1i^ colored, 
rephce it ibr thirty or forty minatei; but 
if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm to the 
touch, place a tin plate on the top, and pot 
it in the oveo till done; remore the moold 
with care, and the gateau is finuhed. If 
&e oMwld does not come away quite so well 
as It ought, strike it gently with a spatufau 
When taken out, put it in the oven for a few 
minutes to dry. ' 

This gateau is sometimes varied by the 
addition of six ounces of sugared anise, and 
ihe same quantity of dry currants. • 



GATEAU DE POMMES. Boil in a 
pint of water one pound and a half of loaf 
m^ar till it become a rich simp; vireigfa 
two pounds of apples after they have been 
peded, cored, and cut small ; boil them in 
the sirup with the grated peel and juice of a 
large lemoa till they are reduced to a pulp; 
put it into a mould. The following day 
serve it, turned oat in a g^ass dish, with a 
rich custard. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (1) Mixverywell 
with two large table-spoonfuls of floor, aquar- 
terof a pint of cream, two well-faeaten eggs, 
and a tea-spoonful of grated nutOMg, a verj- 
little sak, and one ounce of batter bitten to 
aeream; bake it in buttered eups fortwen- 
^or diirty minutes; turn them out upon a 
diulu and serve them instaiidy ; pour a sweet 
sauce round them. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (2) Beat to a 

cream a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, 
Uanch and pcMind one ounce of sweet almondn 
with a little rose water, beat five yolks and 
three whites of eggs; mix all togetlier wttli 
two large table-spoonfuls of flour, a^ sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar; bake it in but- 
tered aq», and serve them with a sweet 



GHERKINS OR cvcuhbeks figk- 
LED. Choose gherkins very green and 
straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, 
sprinkle them with fine salt, then anotlier lay- 
er of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also, 
and continue this operation until you have 
iMWid nearly a bushel of glierkins, lekve them 
in the salt for twenty-four hours, which will 
draw all the water firom them; at (he end 
of that time drain and place them in a jar, 
with a handful of alls|uoe, the same of tarra- 
gon, a little Isalm, t^ shallots, six cloves of 
garlic, two or ihree long peppers, tvrenty 
cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two 
mall handfuls of salt. - Bioil two gulbns of 
the hcA vinegar, pour it over tke glierkins, 
and kit them stand till the next day, when 
boil the vinegar a second time, and pour it 
jM again f the following, day boil the vine- 



gar for the third and last time, poor it over 
the gherkiM, and wben quite oaki, oovar iN 
jar with a wet parchment. 

GIBLET PIE. 8^ Put. 

GIBLETS STEWED. Cfeaa two mU 
of giblets, put them into a saucepan, jurt 
eover thttn with ooU water, and set them on 
the lira; when they boil, take oflf the scoa, 
and pat in an onion, three ck>ves,or two bladas 
of maoe, a few berries of black pepper, the 
same of alkipice, and half a tea-spuonfid of 
salt ; cover the ftewpan ckjse, and let itsimmer 
very gently till the gibfeta are quite tender: 
this will take from one hour and a half fo 
two and a half, aooordiag to the age of the 
giblets ; the pinions will be done fint» and 
must then be taken out, and put in again |o 
warm when the gisEiards are done: watqh 
them that they do not set too much dont: 
take them out and thicken the sauce with 
flour and butter; kst it boil half an hour, or 
till there is jiwt enough to eat with Ihe gi^- 
Irts, and then strain it through a tamis inlo 
a clean stewpan; out the gibksts into mouth- 
fuls; put them into the sauce with the juioe 
of half a lemon, a tuble-ifioooful of mush- 
room ketchup; pour the whole into aaou^ 
dishy with sippets of bread at the bottom. 
Ox-tails prepmned in the same way are e»- 
cellent eating. 

GINGERBREAD. Rub one pound of 
butter well into three pounds of fluiur; then 
add one pound of powder-sugar, one pound 
of treacle, and two ounces of ginger pounded 
and sifted very tine ; one nutmeg gmuxl very 
line ; then warm a quarter of a pmt of cream, 
and mix all togetlier ; you may add carra- 
waysand sa'eetmeats if you choose; make 
it into a stifl' paste, and bake it in a skm 
oven. If cake or biscuits are kept in paper 
or a drawer, they will acquire a disagieeuble 
taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will 
preserve them k>ng and moist; ur if to be 
crisp, bying them before the fire will make 
them so. 

GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. See 

Amerieaiu 

GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUT- 
TEEL Mix two pounds of treacle; of or- 
ange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger* 
euch four ounces, ail thinly sliced ; one ouu^ 
of coriander-eeeds, one oupce of carawajp, 
and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much 
paste as will make a sott paste; by it in 
cakes or tin plates,. and baKe it in. a quick 
oven. Keep it dry in a covei^ed ^aithen 
vessel, and it will he gopd for some muotlw. 

GINGERBREAD INDIAN. Tal(e 



GIN 



86 



GIN 



twelve ocnon of pounded loaf sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh butter, one pound of 
dried flour, two ounces of pounded ginjpr, 
and of cloves and cinnamon a (jpiarler of an 
ounce each. Mix tne ginger and the spice 
with the flour ; put ttM sugar and a small 
Cea-cupfijl of vmtear into a saucepan ; when 
it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon 
as it is melted, mix it with the flour and 
other tilings; work it up, and form the 
paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them 
upon tins. 

GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. 

Five eggs ; half a pound of brown sugar ; half 
a pmuKl of fresh hatter ; a pint of sugar-house 
mokisses ; a pound and a half of floor ; foui' 
table-spoonftils of ginger; two large sticks of 
ciiMMunoD ; three dozen grains of allspice ; 
three doaien of ckoves ; the juice and grated 
peei of two lemons. Stir the butter a^ su- 
garlo a cream; beat tbec^ very well; 
pour the mobssesat onoe, into the butter 
aitd sugai*. Adfi die gingor and other spice, 
and stir all well together. Put in the egg 
and flour akenntely, stirring all the time. 
Stir the whole .very hard, and put in the 
teivion at the last. When the whole is mix- 
ed, stir k till ver^ light. Butter an earthen 
|Mu>, or a thick tro or iron one, and put the 
gingerbread in it. Bake it in a modei^ate 
oven, an hour or more, according to its 
tiiickness. Take care that it do not bum. 
Or yoa may bake it in small cakes, or lit- 
tle tins. ItB lightness will be much improv- 
ed by a small tea-spoonful of pearbsb dis- 
solved in a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stir- 
red lightly in at the kist. Too much pearl- 
ash wiU give it an unpleasant taste. If you 
tise pearhsli, you must omit the lemon, as 
its taste will be entirely destroyed by the 
fiearlash. You may substitute for the lem- 
on some raisins and currants, well flowed 
to prevent their sinking. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (1) Take four 
pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, 
an ounce of caraway-seeds, half an ounce 
of ginger pounded anci sified, six ounces of 
liesh butter, and two ounces of candied or- 
ange-peel cut into small slices ; then take a 
f>otmd of treacle or honey, and a giU of 
cream, make them warm together; mix it, 
widi all the ingiedients, into a paste, and 
let it by six hours; then roll it out, make it 
into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (2> Take 
one poond of dried and sifted flour, one 
pound of treacle, three ounces of brown su- 
gar, foMT ounces of fredi butter, one ounce 
and a half of pounded and sifted ginger, of 
candied orange-peek and citron, cut small, 
Ihrae^uarters of an ounce each; melt the 



biitter widi the treacle, and when it is about 
milk-warm, add it to the flour and other 
ingredients, and then mix all well togedier; 
with a spoon drop the nuts upon Imttered 
tins, and bake them. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (3) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of butter in three- 
quarters of a pound of ti-eacle, put it into a 
pan large enough to contain the rest of the 
ingredients, and when almost cold, stir in 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of coarse l»t>wn sugar, half an ounce 
of caraway seeds, three-qtmters of an ounoe 
of pounded gineer, and the grated peel of a 
leinon ; mix all these well together, and let 
it stand till it be stiff, or till the followinjgr 
day, then make it into nuts, bj' pinching it 
into pieces with the finger and thumb. 
Bake them upon buttei'ed tins in a quidt 
oven. Half an ounce of coriander seeds 
may be added. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (4) Rub 
half a pound of butter hito two pounds of 
flour; add one pound of coarse sugar, and 
one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all well 
together with one pound and two ounces <^ 
treacle ; foi-m it into nuts, or roll it out, and 
cut it into round cakes; bake them upon 
tins. 

GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL. Sa 
four pounds of oatmeal, suidmix with it fear 
pounds of treacle, lialf a pound of browa su- 
gar, the same quantity of melted butter, and 
thi^ee-quarters of an ounce of powdoned gia- 
ger. Work it all well together, let it re- 
main for twenty-four horn's, and then make 
it into cakes. 

GINGER BEER. See Beer, 

GINGER CAKF^. Put four pounds of 
flour upon the dresser ; then take a cof^fier 
saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and 
mix tliem weH with a spoon ; add one piiil 
of cream to them, and beat them well ; put 
the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mix- 
ture is warm; put two pounds of butter into 
the cream and eggs, and one pound of ai^ar, 
and keep stirring it over a very slow fire^ 
just to mek all die butter; put in four ounces 
of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the 
butter is melted, pour it all into the middfe 
of the flow ; mix it iks well as you possibly 
can, till it becomes a fine paste; then roll il 
out with flour under it on your dresser ; oil 
tliem to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a i 
quarter of an inch in thickness ; and before <, 
you put them into the oven (which sbouldbe 
very hot), place three papers undca* them. 

GINGER IMITATION. Ptel olT dw 



GLA 



87 



GOO 



ooter coat of the tender stems of lettuce that is 
ihort, cut it ioto bits one or two inches lonj^, 
and throw it into cold water; to each pound 
put in a tea-spooniiil of Cayenne, and a 
fittle salt ; let it stand one or two cbys ; al- 
kw an equal propoition of fine loaf sugar, 
which clariiy< Soak some good ginger in 
hot water, siioe it, and add it to the sugar, 
allowing one ounce and a half to the poimd, 
and boil it for fifteen minutes ; strain off ^ 
water finom the lettuce, and pour over it 
Hk simp, keeping back the ginger, with 
which tlie simp must be boiled three times, 
and poured over the lettuce, two or three 
days intervening between each boiling; and 
at last add the strained juice of one or two 
lemoDS. 

GLACE, ROYAL, Put the white of a 
iiew4aid ^g into a pan, and mix with it a 
sufficient quantity of white powder-sugar to 
make a glace or icing, neitlier too dry nor 
too liquid; beat it well, and add a little 
lemoa-juioe to whiten it. By mixing with 
this glaee, carmine, safiirou, indigo, spi- 
oachjuice, &c. ; it will be either rose-col- 
«fed, yelbwy bfaje, green, &c. according to 
your taste. 

GLAZE. (1) Take tli(> remains of 
any liquor in which meat hus been cooked, 
and strain it through a silk sieve until quite 
dear; then put it into a saucepan and re- 
duce it over a brisk fire: as noon as it is 
sufficiently done, that is, when it sticks to 
the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, 
and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, 
add a moaXi piece of fi^esh butter to it, to 
fxmrect jtssakness. 

GLA2jE. (2) Make a eonaomme widi 
whatever remnants of fowls or meat that may 
be in the house; s'jrain it, and then put it on 
the fire with two or three whites of eggs 
beaten to a snow ; stir till it boils, and then 
set on the side of the stove, and place fire 
on the saucepan lid ; as soon as the eggs aie 
set, pass the glaze through a wet cloth ; re^ 
duce this over a large fire, stirring it con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its 
stidiing; then pour it into a pot for use. 
When wanted, put a small quantity of it in- 
to a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow 
fire; and, in this state, lay it gently ovm- 
such articles as may require glazing, by 
means of a feather. • 

GLAZE. (3) Desire the butcher to break 
the bones of a leg or a shin of beef, of ten 
pounds weight (the firesher killed the lietter) ; 
put it into a soup-pot (a digester is the b^t 
ntensil for this purpose) that will well hold 
it; just cover it with cold water, and set it 
CQ the fire to heat gradually till it nearly 



boils (this shookl be at least an hoar); dkim 
it attentively while any scum rises; pour m 
a little ookl* water, to throw up the soooi 
that ma;^ remain ; list it come to a boil again, 
and again skim it carefiiily: when no mum 
scum rises, and the broth appears clear (pal 
in neither roots, nor herbs, nor sah), let it 
boil for eight or ten houm, and then scraia 
it through a hair sieve into a bi^iwn stoat 
pan ; set the broth where it will cool quick Iv; 
pot the meat into a sieve, let it drain, make 
potted beef, or it will be very aceeptable la 
many poor fiunilies. Next day remova 
every particle of fiu fit>m the top of it, and 
pour it through a tamis, or fine sieve, ■■ 
quietly as possible, into a stewpan, taking 
care not to let any of the ■e«tling8 at iho 
bottom of the stone pan go into the stewpan, 
which should be of thidi copper, perfectly 
well tinned; add a quarter of an ounce of 
whole black pepper to it ; let it boii briskly, 
with the stewpan luicovered, on a <|uieli 
fire ; if any scum rises, take it off with a 
skimmer: when it begins to thicken, and ia 
reduced to about a (|uart, put K into a smi^ 
ler stewpan; set it over a gentler fire, till it 
is reduced. 

GODIVEAU. Take fiHet of veal ar 
breasts of fowl or game, fresh pork or 
sausage meat, heef-niarrow or suet, equal 
quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, tru^ 
fles, and mushrooms ; season these artidei 
with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all ia 
powder; pound them all toseSier, and 
put in (one at a time) the yolks of eggs; 
pour in also a little water, poundinr o(MI> 
tinually, until it is redueed to a sort ofpasle. 
Make a small boll of it, which boil in a 
little water to ascertain whether it he suf* 
ficiendy salt; sweet herbs mav be wided 
when you are about to use it. The getUvetm 
is used as n farce for touriee and hot pica. 

GOOSE, TO CWOOSE. Be carefiil 
in choosing a goose, that the bill and feel 
are yellow, as it will be young: when old 
the feet and bill are red. When they ara 
fresh the feet are pliable; if stale they ara 
dry and stiff. Green geese are in season 
fi^om May or June, till diey are three months 
old; they should be scalded. A stubble 
goose is good till it is five or six moothe 
old, and should be picked dry. 

GOOSE ROASTED. A stubbie goose 
should be stuffed with sage and onions, 
chopped small, and mixed witli pepper and 
salt; boil the sage and onion in a little wa- 
ter before they are chopped, or mix a few 
bread crumbs with tliem when chopped; 
either will render tlwm less strong, rut it 
first at a distace from the fire, and by de* 
grees draw it nearer. A slip of paper 



GOO 



88 



GRA 



ibot^ be Aewend on the breast bone. 
Baste it very well. When tlie breast is 
rising, take off the paper, and be careHil to 
sene it before the breast falls, it will be 
spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve 
it with good gravy and apple sauoe, in 
boHts It will take about an hour and a 
half to roast. 

GOOSE TO TRUSS. The goose must 
be first well picked and stubbed, tlien cut 
off the pinions at tlie first joint, and the 
feet also. Make a slit in die back of the 
neck, and take out the tlu-oat, cut off the 
neck close tu the hack and the dcin, but 
leave enough to turn over the back ; make a 
slit b^weea the vetit and the rump, dirougb 
which di-aw out the enti-ails, tlien wipe it 
clean. Draw tlie legs up, keeping them 
close to tlie side, theu put a skewer into 
the wbg, through the middle of tlie leg, 
Ixxiy, and the leg and wing on the otlier 
tide ; put anotlier skewer tlirough the small 
i»f tlie leg, which keep close to tlie sidesmen ; 
run it tluough, and do tlie siime on the otli- 
sr side. Cut through the end of tlie vent, 
througli which put Uie rump, to prevent th^ 
stufiiog trom falling out. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. Boil one 
quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much 
water as will cover tliem : stir in about half 
an ounce of good butter; when they aie 
sofl, pulp tliem through a sieve; sweeten 
tlie pulp while it is hot, with sugai*, then 
beat it up with the yolks of four eggs; serve 
in a dish, cups, or glasses. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put goose- 
berries into a stone jar, with some fine su- 
gar ; put the jai* eiUier in a stove, or in a 
saucepan of water, over the fire; if in a 
stove, a lai'ge spoonful of water slM)uld be 
added to the fruit. Wlien it is done to pulp, 
press it through a colander ; have ready a 
sufficient quantity of new inilk, and a tea- 
cupful of raw cream, bailed together, or 
you may use an egg iustead of the cieuiu ; 
leave it to get cold, tlieu sweeten well wilii 
tine sugar, and u^x the pulp by degrees 
witJi it. 

GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE. Boil 
them a moment, or only scald them in lull- 
ing water, sift them thiough a sieve; reduce 
tliem over the fire to half, then mix tliem 
witli sugar prepai*ed to the ninth degiee (a 
la grande plume), half a pouud of sugar to 
a pound of firuit. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM, See Jam, 

GOOSEBERRt PASTE. Gadier, 
when quite ripe, the rough red gooseberries ; 



top and tail diem; put them into ajsr, CU^ 
it over widi bladder, and boil it in a pot 
of water till the fruit be perfectly sofl; poor 
off the diin juice, and with a wooden spooo 
rub the gooseberries through a fine hair 
sieve ; allow radier more dian half the 
weight of the pulp of pounded loaf sugar, 
mix it together, and boil it till it will jelly, 
wliicli will take almost two hours ; stir, anid 
skim it, then put it into a dish, and senna 
when cold, to be eaten with cream. Tiie 
Uiin juice may be boiled with its weight of 
good brown sugar, and- used as gooseben^ 
jelly. 

GOURDS FRIED. (1) Cut five or six 
gourds in quarters ; take off the tkin and 
pulp ; stew them in the same manner as foi 
table: when done, drain them quite dry; 
beat up an egg, and dip the gourds in it, 
and cover them well over with t^ead-crumbs ; 
make some hog's-lard hot, and fiy them a 
nice light color; throw a little salt and 
pepper over them, and serve up quite dry. 

GOURDS FRIED. (2) Take six or 
eight small gourds, as near of a size as pos- 
sible; slice them with a cucumber-sUce ; 
dry them in n cloth, and then fiy them in 
very hot Ian! ; liirow over a little pepper and 
salt, and ser\e I'p on a napkin. Great at- 
tention is requisite to do these well; if the 
fat is quite hot they are done in a minute, 
and will soon spoil ; if not hot enough, they 
will eat greasy and tough. 

GOURDS STEWED. Take off aB 
the skin of six or eight gourds, put them in- 
to a stewpan, with water, salt, lemon-Jaice, 
and a bit of butter, or fat bacon, and 1^ 
them stew gently till quite tender, and serve 
up with a tich Dutch sauce, w any otlier 
sauce you please that is piquanie, 

GRAPES, COMPOTE. Boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, till it is reduced to a strong sinip ; skim, 
and tlien put into it a pound of grapes, pick- 
ed from the stalks, and the seeds taken out; 
give them a boil two or three times, and 
then place tliem in a dessert dish : if there m 
any scum upon them, carefully wipe it off 
with white paper. 

GRAPES, PICKLED. The grapes 
must be at their full growth, but not rip^ 
cut diera in small bunches ; put them in a 
stone jar, with vine leaves between each 
layer of grapes, till the jar isfiill; then take 
as much spring-water as will cover the 
grapes and the leaves ; as it heats put in as 
much salt as will make a brine sufficiendv 
strong to bear an egg ; you must use has 
bay ^t and half conwoQii salt; wtien it 



GRA 



ORA 



boSs, skim it ; strain it diroagh a ibnnei 
fapig, and let it staud to settle; bjf the time it 
is odd it will be quite settled ; strain it a 
second time throogh a flannd bag; then pour 
it into die jcgr, upon the grapes, which must 
be well covered ; fill the jar with vine leaves ; 
then tie it over with a double cloth, and set 
a pfaUe upon it; let it stand for two days, 
dien taike off the cloth, pour away the Ixrine, 
and take oat the leaves and the grapes, and 
by them between two cloths to dry; then 
take two quarts of vinegar, one quart of 
i^irii^-water, and one pound of coarse sugar, 
boil it for a short time, and skim it very 
dean as it boils ; let it stand till it is quite 
arid; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay 
some fresh vine leaves at the bottom, between 
every braicfa of grapes, and oh the top; then 
pcnrand strain the pickle on the grapes; 
fiD the jar ; let the pickle be above the grapes ; 
tie up a thin piece of board in a flannel, lay 
it on the grapes to keep them under the 
pickle; tie diem down with a bladder, and 
over tint a leather. Always keep the grapes 
mder the pickle. 

GRATIN. Oit half a pound of fillet of 
veal into dice, and pat it into a stewpan 
with a piece of butter, a few mushrounis, 
parsi^, sliallots chopped small, salt, pepper, 
and spices; sdr them up with a wooden 
spoon ; and when the meat has been on the 
fire about a quarter of an hoar, take the 
drain off the butter, mince it vpry small, and 
pat it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or 
eame livers, well washed, dried, and par- 
boiled, all the bitter parts taken out, pound 
them, adding at times as much panada as 
you have meal; boil some calPs udder, trim, 
and remove all tlie skin wiien cold, and put 
about a third of the qifiintity of meat, and 
pound them together, adding, one at a time, 
three yolks, and three whole eggs ; season 
with sak, pepper, and spices; when well 
pounded, set it by in an earthen pan for 



GRAVY. See aUo CulUa and 
Saueea, 

GRAVIES, DIRECTIONS respegt- 
IHG. — ^The skirts of beef and the kidney, 
will make quite as good gravy as any other 
meat, if prepared in the same manner. 

The kidney of an ox, or the milt, m'akes 
excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and pre- 
pared as other meat; and so will tlie shank 
end of mutton that has been dressed, if much 
gravy is not required. 

The shank-bones of mutloD add greath to 
dw richness of graiy; but they shookl be 
first well soaked, and scoured clean. 

To obtain the flavor of French cookery, 
tad to improve the taste of the gravies, tar- 
8* 



ntgoo sboold be used; but it mwt not be 
added till a short time beibre serving. 

GRAVY. (1) Take diree poonds of beef 
steaks, two rabbits, (excepting die heads 
and breasts), a knuckle of veal, five carrots, 
six onions, two cbves, two bay leaves, a 
bunch of parsley and scallions; put all these 
into a stewpan, with two ladlesnil of broth, 
and set them over a good fire to reduce ; 
then cover the stove, and let the stewpan 
stand over it, until the meat begins to give 
out the gravy, and adheres sligliUy ; the jel- 
ly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to be 
nearly' black, and when that is the case, 
take it from the stove, and let it stand for 
ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 
good brotli, or water, (if Uie latter, not so 
large a quantity) ; let this simmer for diree 
horns; skim amd season it well. If water 
is used instead of broth, the gravy must be 
strained before it is used. Gravy may also 
be made of any pieces of ready dressed 
meat, in die following manner: cut aunie 
onions into slices, lay them at die bottom of 
the stewpan, and the meat on tiiem, with 
the same ingredients as above, and two or 
three glasses of water ; dien proceed in tli< 
same manner as the other, until tlie bottoic 
<^ the stewpan is nearly black, when add 
water according to the quantity of meat; 
put salt if necessaiy, and simmer die whole 
for two hours; then strain it dirough a 
sieve. 

GRAVY. (2) C:ut down into slices four 
pounds of lean beef, rub die bottom of die 
pot with butter, and put in the meat ; turn it 
freqiiebtly till it be well browned, and do it 
slowly, then add four quarts of cold water ) 
when it has boiled two hours, put in two 
dessertHBpoonfuls of whole pepper, one car- 
rot, and three onions; let it stew gently tit 
four hours longer, strain it, and wlieii it is 
required for use, take off the fat. Tliis gra- 
vy answei-s for all made dishes when brown 
gi-avy sauce is used. 

GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR 
DUCKS. Boil all the giblets excepting the 
liver for an hour in a pint of water willi a 
chopped onion, some salt and pe|)iier ; strain, 
and add a very little browning, with a tea- 
spoonfiil of coratch, and one of musliroom 
ketdiup; for die stuffing, mince die raw 
liver widi two sage leaves, a small onion, 
some pepper and salt, a bit of butler, and 
grated bread crumbs. 

Send your sauces to table at hot as poe- 
slble. 

Nothing can be more unsightly than the 
sur&oe ofa sauce in a fixnsen state, or Shi>- 
nished with urease on the top. The best 
way to get ridf of this, is to past it througli 



6RA 



90 



CRA 



* tsmw or napkin previoluly soaked in ooM | 
water; the coldness of the napkin will coag> | 
ulate the fat, and only suffer the pure gravy i 
to pass through: if any particles of fat re- 
main, take tlrem off by* applying filtering pa- 
per, as blotting paper is applied to writinp^. 
Let your sauces boil up after you put in 
wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their fla- 
vors may be well blended with the other in- 
gredients; and keep in mind that the 
top-knot of COOKERY is, to entertain the 
mouth without offisnding the stomach. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. It is of 
as much impoitanoe that the cook slioald 
know how to make a boat of good gravy fur 
poultry, &c. as that it should be sent op of 
proper complexion, and nicely frothed. 

We shall endeavor to introduce to her all 
the materials which give flavor in aauee 
which is tlie estenee of soup, and intended 
to contain more relish in a iea-apoonjkd 
than the former does in a UAU-spoonful, 

We hope to deserve as much praise from 
the economic as we do from the bon vioani; 
as we have taken great pains to introduce to 
him the methods of making substitutes for 
those ingredients, which are always expen- 
sive, and often not to be had at all. Many 
of these cheap articles are as savory and 
as salutai-y as the dearer ones, and those who 
have lai^ femilies and limited incomes, will, 
DO doubt, be glad to avail themselves of 
them. 

The reader may rest assured, that wlieth- 
er he consults this book to diminish the ex- 
pense or increase the pleasures of hospitality, 
ne will find all the information that was to 
be obtained up to 18S2, o^inmunicated in 
the most mireserved and intelligible manner. 

A great deal of tlie elegance of cookery 
depends upon the accompaniments to each 
dish being appropriate and well adapted 
to it. 

We can assure our readers, no attention 
has been wanting on our part to render this 
department of die work worthy of their pe- 
rusal ; each receipt is the foithful narrative 
of adxnU and repeated experiments, and has 
received the most deliberate consideration 
before it was here presented to them. It is 
given in the most circumstantial manner, 
and not in the technical and mysterious lan- 
guage former writers on these subjects seem 
to Imve preferred ; by which their directions 
ure useless and unintelligible to all who have 
«ot regularly served an apprenticeship at the 



It win be to very little pnrpose that I 
have taken so much pains to tmth how to 
iBanage roestt and boils, if a cook caanot or 
%iiU not make the several aances that are 
lanaOy sent up with them. 

Wo kmn, ihonkfe^ tndnvcnd to give 



the pfauneAt directions how to produce, wilfc 
tlie least trouble and expense possible, aB 
the various compositions the English kitcheo 
aflbrds ; and hope to present such a wiiolek> 
some and pabtable variety as will suit aJl 
tastes and all pockets, so that a cook may 
give satisfiiction in all fimiilies. Tbe more 
combinations of this sort she is aoquaioted 
with, the better she will ocMiiprdiend Ae 
managmient of every <Mie of tliem. 

Let your sauces each disf^y a decided 
character; send up your plain sauces (oya- 
ter» lobster, &c.) as pure as possible: tbev 
should only taste of ike materials firom wlucii 
th^take their name. 

The imaghiation of moet cooks ia so »- 
cessantly on the bunt for a itdisb, that thm 
seem to think they cannot make sauce tm- 
ciently savory witnout putting into it every- 
thing that ever was eaten; and auppoaiag 
every addition must bean improvunent, thsy 
frequently overpower the natural flavor of 
their plain sauces, by overloading than 
with sak and spices, &c. : but, reoksmber, 
these will be deteriorated by any addition, 
save only just salt enough to awaken the 
palate. 

On the contrary, of COHPOURD sauces; 
the ingredients should be so nicely propor- 
tioned, that no one be fHredomiiiant ; so that 
from tlie equal union of the combined fla- 
vors such a tine mellow mixture is produced, 
whose very novelty cannot fail of being ac- 
ceptable to the persevering gourmand, if it 
lias not pretensions to a permaaent place at 
hia table. 

An ingenious cook will form as endless a 
ririety of these compositions as a murieian 
with his seven notes, or a pabUer witli his 
colors; no part of her business ofiers so foir 
and fi^Bqueiit an opportunity to display her 
abilities: spices, herbs, &c. are often 
very absurdly and injudiciously jumbled to- 
gether. 

Why have clove and aUspice, or maoe and 
nutmeg, in die same sauce; or marjoiaaa, 
thyme, and savory; or onions, leeks, es- 
chalots, and garlici one will very well sup- 
ply the phce of the other, and the iriMpd 
cook may save something considerable oy 
attending to this, to the advantage of bar 
employers, and her own time and trouble. 

{CT* ^*^ Sauces and Culus for 
other importani particular; 

GRAVIES, ESSENCE OF HAM 
FOR. Pick off all the bits of meat from a 
ham4ione, pound dbem, break the boae, and 
put all into a saucepan, together vridi nesrly 
half a pint of water, aod a bnaeh of sweet 
herbs; simmer gently for sometime* 8tirrin| 
it occasionally; then add a pintof gocd bMt 
; gravy, and some pepper, and continue t» 
I sifflDMr it till it be woli ilavorad ivitii^ki 



GRA 



91 



6RA 



Who ; strsuii,uid k«ep h ht improving rich 
gntvies and saacm of ail deBcriptiom. 

GRAVY FOR BOILED HEAT, May 

be made with parings and trimmings; or 
poor firom a quarter to half a pint of the li- 
quor in which tlie meat was boiled, into the 
dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of 
tile joint with a sharp skewer* 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (1) 
Most joifrts will allbrd sufficient trimming, 
Blc, to noake haU* a pint of plain gravy, which 

rmay eokMr with a few chops of browning : 
those that do not, about half an boar m- 
hte you think the meat will be done, mix a 
satt-spoonful of sak, with a full quarter-pint 
of btMling water; drop this by degrees on 
die brown parts of the joint ; set a dish un- 
der to catdi it (the meal will soon brown 
again); set it by; as it oods, the fet will 
Mat on the sorfeoe; when the meat is ready, 
carefully remove the fet, and warm up the 
gravy, and pov it into the dish. 

The common method is, when the meat 
is in the dish you intend to send it up in, 
U» mix half a teapspoonfel of sidt in a quarter 
pint of boiling water, and to drop some of 
this over the corners and underside of the 
meat, and to pour the rest through the liole 
the spit came out of: some pierce the infe- 
rior parts of the joints with a sharp skewer. 

The following receipt was given us by a 
very good cook: — ^You may make good 
browning for roast meat and poultry, by 
saving the brown bits of roast meat or broil- 
ed; cut tfaem small, pot them into a basin, 
cov^ them with boiling water, and put them 
away till next day ; then put it into a sauce- 
pan, let it boil two or three minutes, strain 
It dvruugh a sieve into a basin, and put it 
away for use. When you want ^vy for 
rooBi meat, put two tableHspoonfub mto half 
a pint of boiling water with a little salt: if 
for roasted veal, put three table-spoonfols 
into half a pint of diin melted butter. 

The gravy which comes dowrn in the dish, 
the oook (if she is a good housewife) will 
preserve to enrich haJBhes or Uttle made 
dishes, &c. ^ 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (2) 
About a qnaxter of an hour before the meat 
is taken from the fire, put a common dish 
with a tea^spooniul oif salt in it under the 
meat; when it has all run into the dish, re- 
move it, baste and froth the meat, and pour 
the gravy into die dish on which the roast is 
tobesMrred. 

GRAVY MADE FROM BONES. 
Break into saiall pieces a poond of beef, 
ontton, ixr veal bones, if misied itogether so 
4Dadi the better ; teil IheiB in two quarts of 



wa te r, and after it boils, let it sinmier ti^ 
nearly three hours : boil with it a couple of 
a bunch of sweet herlis, ^ome salt 



and .pepper; strain, and keep it for makinc 
The bones of liroifed and 



gravy or i 

roasted meat being scraped, washed clean, 
and boiled in less water, answer equally well 
for this purpose. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(1) Slice three onions, and fry tliem brown 
in a Uttle buner; add them to half a pint 
of water, and die same of beer, put in sooie 
peppercorns, salt, a Uttle lemon peel, three 
cloves, a Itttle mace or pqiper, a spooniul 
oi wiUnut pidile, and one of mushroom 
ketchup, of soy and essence of anchovy a 
dessertHipoonfiJ each, a small bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a quarter of a slice of bread 
toasted brown on both sides; simmer all to- 
gediar in a closely covered saucepan for 
twenty minutes, Uie'n strain it for use, and 
when coki take off the fet. It will taste 
exactly Uke a gravy made with meat. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(2) Knead a good deal of dour into a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, (ky it in a fry- 
ing-pan over a dear fire, stir it constantly 
with a wooden spoon till it become a nice 
brown color, taking particular care that it 
be made pcarfecdy smooth; pour in some 
boiling water, add a little finely-minced on- 
ion, some whole pefiper and a fiule salt, put 
it into a small saucepan, cover it closely, 
and sioMuer it for a short time; strain, and 
mix with it a little mushroom ketchup, and 
Port wine. 

GRAVY OR RICH CULUS. Cut 
into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton, 
cover the bottom of Uie saucepan with Um 
veal, then put in a few slices of salt pork, 
next a layer of beef, add a few onions sliced, 
and the red part of one or two canrots, a 
little mace, two or three doves, some whole 
pepper, and two or three bay-leaves, above 
that the mutton ; co\-er the pan doedy, set it 
on a slow fire, and when the meat is a fine 
brown, mix quite smooth a small quantity 
of dour in water, stir it in, and dien add as 
much boiling water as will cover the meat 
wdl, and a little sak ; cover the pan closely, 
and let it stew an hour and a half; strain, 
and keep it for use ; it will coniimie good for 
eight or ten days. 

GRAVY DRAWN. Put a few pounds 
of gravy-beef sliced, and a little whole 
pepper, into a jfur with aoover to fit closely ; 
set the jar into a pot of cold water, and wfaieo 
it boils, add ^ it wastes more hot water, 
and keep it boiling gently for e« or seven 
the xi^lfsifmvy imagipable 



GRA 



92 



HAM 



wilt be obtained. It may be tned in that 
ttate, or reduced widi water. 

GRAVY, TO MAKE A PINT OF 
RICH. Brown a quarter of a pound of 
butter, dredging in two table-epoonilils of 
flour, and stirring it constantly ; add a pound 
of gravy-beef cut into small bits, and two or 
three onions chopped. When it becomes 
brown, add some whole pepper, one carrot, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, and three pints of 
water ; let it hoilgently till reduced to one, 
then strain it. lliis gravy may be served 
with roasted turk^ or fowl. 

GRAVY, TO CLARIFY. Clarify gra- 
vy, drawn from beef or veal, with the beat»i 
whites of eg^, allowing one white to a 
quart. Gravies and soups which are to be 
clarified should be made very strong, and be 
highly seasoned. 

GRAVY AND SAUCE ingredi- 
ents. Browning for made dislies. — Put into 
a saucepan one pound of good brown sugar, 
stir it constantly over a tslow fire, boil it 
till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles 
it in color ; take the pan off tlie fire, stir it 
for a minute or two, and pour in very slowly 
a quart of boiling water, stin'ing constantly ; 
put it again on die fire, and ooil it for a 
little ; pour it into a bowl, and when cold, 
bottle it. This browning will keep good 
for a year, and Tery little of it serves for 
coloring soups, gravies, or sauces. 

To clarify letter. — Pitt the butter cut into 
slices into a nicely-cleaned brass pan, stir it 
gently till di;3solved: when it boils, draw die 
pan to tlie side of the fire, skim it, and let 
it boil gently a second time, and if any scum 
again risen, take it ofl^; let it settle for two 
or three minutes, and strain it gently through 
-a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid 
into it. 

Fresh beef suet, picked free from skin 
and sinews, is dissolved in the same way; 
it is tlien strained through muslin into small 
jars, and wlien cold, covered with bladder, 
or it may be strained into cold water ; and 
the cake when cold, wiped dry, folded in 
wliite paper, and kept in a linen bag. 

Beef suet will ke^ fresh for sometime 
if finely chopped and dredged with flour, 
and kept in white paper bags in a cool place. 

Beef and mutton drippings are clarified 
exactly in the manner butter is done, and 
each kept in a separate jar. 

To melt hogVlard, put it into a jar plac- 
ed in a pot of water or water bath, strain it 
into clean bladders or small jars, and cover 
them with paper. Thus prepared, it will 
keep good a migth of time, and is the best 
thing for frying fish in. 

T^ fryparuey, wash it» pick it deui. 



and put it into firesh cold water; take koal 
and then throw it into boiline lard or drip* 
ping, when it will instantly oecome crisp; 
It is then taken out with a slice. 

GRUEL. DR. KITCHENER'S. Aak 
those who are to eat it, if they like it 
thick or thin; if the latter, mix well togeth- 
er by degrees, in a pint basin, one taUe- 
spoonful of oatmeal, with three of cold wa- 
ter; if the former, use two spoonfob. 

Have ready in a stewpan, a pint of boil- 
ing water or milk ; pour this by degnm to 
the oatmeal you have mixed ; return it into 
the stewpan ; set it on the fire, and let it 
boil for five minutes ; stirring it all the tinie 
to prevent the oatmeal from burning at the 
Imttom of the stewpan; skim and strain it 
through a hair sieve. 

2d. To convert this into candle, add a 
little ale, wine, or brandy, with sugar; and 
if the bowels are disordered, a little nutmeg 
or ginger, grated. 

Ob9.--Gnx\ may be made with broth in- 
stead of water; and may be flavored with 
sweet heibs, soup roots, and savory spices, 
by boiling them for a few minutes in the 
water you are going to make the gmel with. 



H. 



HAM. If it is a very dry Wes^ihalia 
ham, it must be soaked^ according to its age 
and thickness, from twelve to twenty-foor 
hours ; for a green ham, from four to eight 
hours will be sofi^ient. Lukewarm water will 
soften it much sooner than cold, when suffi- 
ciently soaked, trim it nicely on the luider- 
side, and pare ofi* all the rusty and snioked 
parts till it looks delicately clean. 

Give it plenty of water-room, and put it 
in while the water is cold ; let it heat veiy 
gradually, and let it be on the fire an hour 
and a half before it comes to a boil; let it 
be well skimmed, and keep it simmering 
very gently: a middling-sized ham of fifteen 
pomiOB will be done enough in about four or 
five hours, according to its thickness. 

If not to be cut till cold, it will cut the 
shorter and tenderer for being boiled about 
liaJf an hour loiter. In a very small fiunily, 
where a ham will last a we^ or ten days, 
it is best eoonorav not to cut it till it is ooiid, 
it will be infinitely more juicy. 

Pull oflf the skin carefiilly, and preserve it 
as whole as possible ; it will form an excd- 
lent covering to keep the ham moist; «ihen 
you have removed the skin, rub some bread 
raspings through a hair sieve, or grale • 
crust of bread; |Mit it into the perforated 
cover of the dredgiog-faox, and shake it ov« 



HAM 



93 



HAM 



it, or glnze it; trim the kiraclde with a 
fringe of cut writing-paper. You may gar- 
nish with spioage or turnips. Sec. 

To pot ham is a much more usefu) and 
economical way of disposing of the remaina 
of the joint, than making eseenoe of it. 

HAM AND EGGS. Got tome ham 
into thin slices, and broil them on a gridiron. 
Fry some eggs in butter. Serve it, laying 
an ^g on eadi slice of ham. 

HAM, ESSENCE OF. Take thrae or 
fom poundis of lean ham, cut it into pieces 
^bout an inch thick, and lay them in a stew- 
pan, with slices of carrots, parsnips, and 
three or lour onions ; let them stew till they 
stick to the pan, but take care they do not 
bum; then by degrees pour in some good 
veal gravy, a few fresh mosbrooms cut in 
pieces, (or moshroom-fiowder), truffles, mor- 
efa, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust 
of bread; cover it close, and simmer till 
pr^y thick, then strain it off for use. 

HAM GRAVY. Take a deep sauce- 
pan, put into it a piece of fresh butter, seve- 
ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal 
the size of a walnut, and two or three car- 
rots cut in »ma\\ pieces; set these over a 
slow fire, and let them stand tiH they give 
out their juices, and the liam and veal be- 
come crisp and stick; then put in a little 
stock, and let it boil; in an hour's tiriie add 
B glass 6f white wine, leave it a quarter of 
an hour, when it will be 'sufficiently done; 
take oft every particle of fat; strain it into 
a pan, and set it by for use. 

HAM LOAF. Soak a fhm ham in oold 
water for one or tu'O days, according to its 
age; then put it into a saucepan just big 
enough to hold it, with no more water than 
win cover it, and a pint of white wine ; let 
it boil, skimming it carefuUvy till done. 
When cold, take out the hock and under 
bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the 
£it, and trim it to an oval form as much as 
possible. Make a farce with the parings of 
the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs 
minced and pounded. Take a pan tiie size 
you wish to have your loaf, lay all over the 
inside a pretty firm paste, and then (hav- 
ing cut your ham into thin slices) place al- 
ternate layers of it and the ferce in die pan, 
until it be quite fiill. Put a cnist over the 
top, which must unite with that in which 
the ham is; turn it over on a baking plate, 
flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for 
an hour and a half or two hours, according 
to its size. Serve it cold, 

HAM, Miircxo, with frixd xoat, 



HAM OMELET. TakeaiHeeorhMW 
ham, minoe it as small as posrible, and nm 
it with a dbien eggs beaten with a little v«al 
gravy; fry it (keeping it of an equal tUok* 
ness) in (he usual raanaer. 

HAM, OR TONGUE POTTED. Ott 

a pound of the lean of cold boiled bam or 
tongue, and pound it in a mortar with a 
quarter of a pound of die fiit, or with fredi 
butter (in the proportion of about twoaonaer 
to a pound), till it is a fine paste (some sea- 
son it by d eg r ee s with a little poundMi maoe 
or allspioe): put it close down in pots lor 
that purpoae, and cover it with efeurified 
butter, a quarter of an inch thkfc; let it 
stand one night in a cool place. S«sd it' 
up in the pot, or cut out in linn alioea. 

HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA. 

Take a fine Westphalia or Baymwe ham, 
pare and trim it of ai round a form as possi- 
ble, take off the end bone, and remii^m 
the rind from the knuckle; then lay the ham 
on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take 
it up with ease; soak it, if necessary, and 
put it in a pan, with slices of carrot* and 
onions, tl^me, bay-leaf, and coriander ; poor 
a bottle of Madeira upon it, cover it with a 
clean cloth, and close tlie pan as tJghl an 
possible, and let it remain tw«irv-four hoars; 
then wn^ the ham in very thick paper, &»> 
it with paste, so that it may be o 



pletely enclosed, tie it on a spit, arMl put 
it to roast ^ three hours; then make a 
small hole in the paper, and pour in, bgfi 
means of a funnel, the Madeira wine, pasta 
paper over the bole, and let it roast another 
hour. When done, lake off the paper care* 
fully, so that none of the gravy may escapat 
mix it with some ^uoed e^jMignoU, glam 
the ham, and serve it, 

HAM TOAST. Cut soma crumb of 
bread into thin slices ; then take an equal 
number of thin slices of ham, beat ttiem well 
with a rolling pin, and then soak them in 
warm water for about two hours; take then) 
out, dry them well, and put them into a 
saucepan with a little bacon, a slice of veai^ 
and half a f lass oi stock; let them boil for 
half an hour, and then add half a glass of 
veal blond. Fry your biead to a nice eol«> 
or in some lard ; lav it on a dish, and on each 
piece lay a slice ot the ham ; pour the sauce 
over them. Take particvilar care to cut 
the ham as nearly as possible the size and 
shape of die bread. * 

HAM TO STEW* Soak iha hfun in 
lukeu'arm water for twelve hours, drain it> 
and scrape the rind ; put it iji|i» a stewpan 
with some slices of fat bacon round tlie sides, 
four quarts of weak stocky ^ffpfid (M ot 



HAR 



94 



HAH 



punAey, a bunch of sweet herbs, six large 
onicMW, lour carrots, a little allspice and 
pepper, a pint of Madeira, and oae of Port 
wine. Cover the hain witli slices of fat ba- 
con, and put over it a sheet of white paper; 
stew it eight hours, or ten if it be a very 
iaiVR hain. Before ser^'iuj^, take off the 
rind, slratn the sauce, skim it well, and 
boil it till reduced to a glaze, and pour it 
round the ham, or serve it with any other 
■auce that may be preferred. 

HAM WITH MADEIRA. Soak in 
water for two hotvs a Bayonne, or any other 
fine ham, boil it for two hours, trim it quick- 
ly, and then put it into a stewpan, with thin 
■lioes of veal at the bottom ; add some car- 
rots and parsley, and season with spices. 
Pour o^ the ham a pint of rich stock and 
a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two liours, 
^rain and skim the &t off the sauce, 
which, with the ham, must be served quite 
hot. 

HARE. As soon as the 4xx>k receives a 
bare, she shouki take out the liver, &c., wipe 
it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it 
op. When wanted for dressing, cut off 
the four l^s at the first joint, raise the 
akin of tlie back, and diaw it over the 
liind legH ; leave the tail whole, then draw 
4he skin over the back, and slip out the four 
legs; cut it from the neck and head; skin 
the oars, and leave them on. Clean the 
vent. Cut the sine%v8 under the hind legs; 
tiring them forward; run a skewer through 
one hind leg, the body, and another hind 
leg; do the same with the fore legs; lay the 
h^d rather back ; put a skewer in at the 
mouth, through the back of the head and 
between the shoulders; put in the stuffing, 
and tie it round with a string, passing it 
over ilie le^ to keep them in their places: 
the hare is then ready for reacting. See 
Hare Roa$t9d, 

HARE, JUGGED. Having skinned a 
hare, cut off the shoulders and 1^, and di- 
vide tlie back into three pieces ; rub them 
well with iat bacon, and put them into a 
stewpan with the trimmings, allspice, mace, 
whole pep|)er, a small clove of garlic, two 
bay-leaves, tliree onions, parsley, thyme, 
tweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and 
thtee gills of Poit wine; simmer the whole 
till tliree paits done ; then take out the 8houl- 
derM, legs, and back ; put them into another 
stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a 
little Aoiar and butter, stew them till quite 
done; take off the fat, season with cayenne, 
salt, and lemon-juice, and serve the whole 
in a deep dish. 

HARE ROASTED. Out the skin (rom 



a hare that has been well soaked; pot it on 
the spit and rub it well widi Madeira, prkk- 
ing it in various places tliat it may imbibe 
plenty of wine; cover it entirely with a 
paste, and roast it. When done, take away 
the paste, rub it quickly over with egg* 
sprinkle bread-crumbs, and baste it gent^ 
with butter (still keepira; it turning before 
the fire) until a crust, is formed over it and 
it is of a nice brown cok>r; dish it over 
some etpagnole with Madeira wine boiled 
in it ; two or three cloves may be stuck into 
the knuckles if you think proper. 

HASHED HARE. Cut up the hare 
into pieces fit to help at taUe, and divide 
the jotots of the legs and shoulders, and set 
them by ready, rut the trimmings and 
gravy you have Idl, with half a pint of wa- 
ter (tliere should be a pint of liquor), and a 
table-spoonfiil of currant jellv, into a clean 
stewpan, and let it boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour: then strain it through a sieve 
into a basin, and pour it back into the stew- 
pan ; now flour the hare, put it into the 
gravy, and let it simmer very gently till the 
hare is warm (about twenty minutes) ; cut 
the stuffing into slices, and put it into the 
bash to get warm, about five minutes before 
vou serve it; divide the head, and lay one 
half on each side the dish. 

HARI(X)T BY WAY OF SOUP. 

Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, 
put the scrag into a stewpan' with a quart 
of water, four large carrots, and turnips; 
boil it gently over a slow fire till all the 
goodness be out of the meat; then bruise 
the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. 
Fry six onions (sliced) in butter, and put 
the other part of die meat to the soup, and 
stew till the latter is tender; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a 



HARICOT MUTTON. C^ut the best 
end of a neck or loin of mutton, that 
has been kept till tender, into chops of 
equal thickness, one rib to each ; trim off 
some of the &t, and the lower end of the 
chine bone, and scrape it clean, and lay 
them in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter; 
set it over a smart fire ; if your fire is not 
sharp, the chops will be done before they 
are colored ; thie intention of frying them ■• 
merelv to give them a very light browning. 

While & chops are browning, peel and 
boil a couple of dozen of yoana button onkns 
in about three pints of water for about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour off 
the liquor they were boiled in into the stew- 
pan with the chops: if that is not sufficient 
to cover them, aad as much boiling water as 
will remove the scum as it rises, and bo 



HAT 



95 



HfiR 



caorefiil tbey are not stewed too fest or too 
much ; so take out one of them with a fkh- 
dioe, and try it: when tliey are tender, 
which win be in about an hoiir and a half, 
then pass tlie gravy through a sieve intcv a 
basin, set it in die open air that it inav get 
cold, you may then eswily and corapletely 
skim off the fat ; in the meantime set the 
meat and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, 
and pour some boiling water over the button 
onions to warm diem. Have about six 
canoes of carrots, and eight ounces of tur- 
nips, peeled and cut into slices, or shaped 
into balls about as big as a nutmeg; boil 
the carrots about half an hour, the turnips 
about a quarter of an hour, and put them on 
a sieve to drain, and then put them round 
the dish, the last thin^. 

Thicken the gravy by patting an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan; when it is melted, 
stir in as much floiv as will stiffen it ; pour 
the gravy to it by d^rees, stir together till 
it boils; strain it through a fine sieve or 
tamis into a stewpan, put in the carrots and 
tmnips to get warm, and let it suniner 
goitly while you dish up the meat ; lay the 
chops round a dish, put the vegetables in tlie 
middle, and pour tlie thickened gravy over. 
Some put in capers, &c. minced gherkins, 
&c. 

Rump-steaks, veal-cutlets, and beef-tails, 
make excellent dishes dresned in the like 



HASH, COLD. Mince a nice white 
pieoe of veal, wash and core some anchovies ; 
take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- 
bers, and a lemon; shred and mix tl.em 
with the veal, and place it in a dish ; lay 
nxiad it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, 
pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled 
oysters, mushrooms and capers; lettuces 
shred small ; pour in oil and vinegar, salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

HASHES, MADE DISHES, STEWS, 
RAGOUTS, SOUPS, TO WARM. Put 
what you have lefl into a deep hash-dish or 
tureen; when you want it, set this in a stew- 
pan of boiling water: let it stand till the 
contents are quite warm. 

HATTERED KIT. (1) Make two 
quarts of new milk scalding hot, and pour 
it quicklv upon four quarts of fresh-made 
batter milk, after which it must not be stir- 
red; let it remain till cokl and firm, then 
take off the top part, drain it in a hair sieve, 
and pot it into a slmpe for half an hour. It 
is eaien with cream, served in a separate 
dish. 

HATTERED KIT. (2) Put into the 
dub it is to be served in, one-third of cream 



wtdi twoi^irds of faiitter-aiilk, add • liUlt 
pounded Irjaf sugar, and beut it well togetb* 
er. Strbw over it a little pounded cin- 
namon, and let it stand for three or tonr 
hours. 

HAWTHORN LIQUOIL The foU 

blossoms of the white thorn are to be picked 
dty and clean from tlie leaves and stalks, 
and as much put into a lar^ liuttle as it will 
hoM liglitly without preraing down; it is 
then to be filled up wiUi French brandy, 
and alfowed tf> stand two or three montm, 
when it must be decanted off, and sweetened 
with clarified sugar, or with capillaire. 
Without the sweetening, it is an excelleat 
seasoning for puddings and custards. 

HEDGEHOG TO MAKE. Blanch 

two pounds of sweet almonds, beat diem to 
a paste in a mortar, moistening occasionally 
with Cananr and orange-flower water ; beat 
the yolks of twelve, and the whites of seven 
eggi with a pint of cream and some powder 
suoar ; put this with the almond paste and 
half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, 
set it over a stove and keep it constantly 
stirring till sufficiently firm to be moukled 
into tlie shape of a hedgehog: i^ick it fuH 
of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into 
slips, and place it in a 'lish ; beat up the 
yolks of ftmr eggs, put diem to a pint of 
cream (sweetemxl to tlie taste) ; stir them 
over a slow fire till hot, tlien pour ic round 
the hedgeliog and let it stand: wlien cok), 
serve it. A good calfVfoot jelly may be 
poured round, instead of die cream, if pre- 
ferred. 

HERBS, A BUNCH OF SWEET, b 
made up of parsley, sweet maijoram, winter 
savory, orange and lemon Uiyme ; the great- 
est proportion of parsley. 

HERBS, SWEET. These in cookery 
are parsley, chibbol, rocamliole, wint«* sa- 
vory, Uiyme, bay-lc»f, liasil, mint, borage, 
rosemarv, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. 
The rellsliing herbs or Ramgotie are tar- 
ragon, garden-cress, chervil, Ijumet, civet, 
and green mustard. 

HERBS TO DRY, SWEET AND 
SAVORY. It is very important to those 
who are not in the constant habit of attend- 
ing die markets to know when the various 
seasons commence for purdiasing sweet 
herbs. 

All vegetables are in tlie highest state 
of perfection, and fullest of juice and flavor, 
just before diey begin to flower: the first 
and last crop have neither the fine flavor, 
nor die perfume of diose which are gathered 
in die height of the season ; thaU is, when 



L . 



JISR 



d» gvetler put of ttae cnp.of «ach ipecieB 
uripe« 

Take care they are gathered on a dry 
day, by which means they wUl have a bet- 
ter color wlien dried. Cleanse your lierbs 
wrell fixHn dirt and dust; cut off the roots; 
separate the bunches into smaller ones, and 
dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a 
Dutch oven before a common fire, in such 
quantities at a time, that tlie process may be 
speedily finished; t. e. *KiU 'em quick,' 
says a great boUmist; by this means their 
flavor will be best preserved: there can be 
no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, 
&c. hastily by the aid of aruficial heat, 
rather than by the heat of the sun. In the 
application of artificial heat, the only cau- 
tion requisite is to avoid burning ; and of 
this a sufficient test is afforded l^ the pres- 
ervation of the color. The common cus- 
tom is, when they are perfectly dried to put 
them in bagu, and lay them in a drv place ; 
but the best way to preserve the oavoi' of 
aromatic plants is to pick off the leaves as 
soon as they are dried, and to pound them, 
and put them through a hair sieve, and keep 
^m in well-stopped bottles. The common 
custom is to put them into paper bags, and 
lay them on a shelf in the kitchen, exposed 
to all the funics, steam, and smoke, &c. : 
thus they soon Iosl their flavor. 

N. B. Herbs nicely dried are a very ac- 
ceptable sutistitute when finesh ones cannot 
be got; but, however carefiiUy dried, the 
flavor and fragrance of the Sce^ herbs are 
incomparably finer. 

HERRINGS. There are three sorts of 
herrings, fiiesh, salted, and dried or red her- 
rings. Tbev are emptied and cleaned like 
any other 6m ; when finesh, th^ are broiled, 
and served with melted butlor, white sauoe, 
«cc. 

The salted herring sNnild be soaked in 
€oid water beSbre it is cooked ; this is also 
broiled; sometimes, however, it is cut in 
pieces, and eaten raw. 

The red iierring is split down the back, 
the head and tailare cut off, and the fish 
broiled like the others. 

They may also be dressed as follows: 
when they Kave lain in cold water a siiffi- 
•ient time, soak them liir two hours in milk, 
:then split them down the back ; then Inve 
nady some meked butter, in which has been 
.miKiad basil. and bay-leaf, minced small, the 
^yolks of two eggs, pepper and nutmeg ; rub 
the herrings well with this, bread them; 
broil than over a gentle fire, and serve with 



96 aoG 

if good, the ores are fiiU,.and the giOs red^ 

the fish also should be stiff. 

HERRINGS, BOILED. Scale, and 
otherwise prepare the herrings in the ustnu 
way ; dry them well, and rub them over with 
a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails 
in their mouths, la^ uiem on a fi^-plate, and 
put them into boiliuff water; in ten or 
twelve minutes take tliem out, drain them, 
lay them on the dish, the heads towards the 
middle; serve them with melted butter and 
parsley, and garnish with horseradish. 

HERRINGS, RED. Plain broil diem, 
or pour over some beer made hot, and when 
it is cold drain and wipe them dry ; lieat 
them thorotighly, and rub over a Ultfe butter, 
and sprinkle them with pepper. 



-The best red herrings are full of roe, 
.are firm and large, and have a yellow 

Of the Iresh herring the scales are bright 



HERRINGS TO BAKE. Tber n 
be perfectly fresh, and well cleaned, but not 
washed ; the heads and fins cut off, and the 
bones cut out; strew over them pepper, salt, 
and a slice o( onion minced very nnefy, to 
each ; roll them up tight ; pack them into a 
jar, and pour over in the proportion of a 
pint of vinegar to two of water, with lialf 
an ounce of whole black pepper ; tie over 
the jar a piece of bladder or paper, and 
bake ihem in an o\ea for an hour. Takti 
off the cover when they are. cold, and pom 
over a little cold vin^ar, and tie them up. 

HERRINGS TO FRY. Scrape off 
the scales; cut off the fins; draw out the 
gut, keeping in the roes and melts; wipe 
them in a clean cloth; di-edge them with 
fiour, and firy thein in boiling dripping; put 
them before the fire to drain and keep hot. 
Sauces; — melted butter, and parsley and 
butter. When herrings are to be broiled, 
they are prepared in the same manner, and 
done upon the gridiron. They must not be 

HIPPOCRAS. Take one ounce of 
cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two pen- 
ny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and salangal 
a permy-weight of ^u:h. Pound tbese to- 
gether well, and infiwe them in a pint of red 
or white wine, and a pint of mahnaey ; to 
this, add a pound of the best loaf si^gar. 
Tliese proportions will msike a qimrt of 
the liquor. 

HOG'S HEAD. Put a head into jone 
pickle, and when it has lain sufiiciently lose, 
take it out and boil it till the bones wul 
come out with ease; tnen skin, Ume^and 
chop the meat, whikt hot; season it with 
pepper (black and white), mitmeir, and sak, 
if necessary; lay part of the win at the 
bottom of a potting p^n,j^nm io tbet pwit. 



HUN 



97 



ICB 



Qover it with the remunder of the akin, pot 
m a weight, and let it stand till quite oold. 
Then turn it out. Boil the liquor it was 
dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, 
and when cold put the he^ into it. 

HONEY TO CLARIFY.— M. Pou- 
iIqe's method. Take six pounds of 
hooey, a pound and three-quarters of water, 
two ounces and a quarter of pounded clKilk, 
five ounces of coal, (pulverised, washed, and 
well dried), the whites of three eggi beaten 
is three ounces of water, (or each pound of 
honey. 

Put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs, 
into a copper vessel, capable of holdin^^ 
about one-third more than the above quanti- 
ties ; let them boil for two minutes, tlvow 
in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and 
continue the boiling two minutes longer; 
then take the saucepan firom the fire, and 
let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that 
the Itqum: mav cool; then take a new sieve 
(which must be well washed, or it will im- 
part a disagreeable taste), pass the honey 
through it, taking cai-e to Glter the first 
drops twNse, as ihey generally c^rry with 
them some portion of the coal. 

The sirup which stilf adlieres to the coal, 
and other naateriab, may be separated as 
follows: pour boiling water on them until 
they no longer retain any sweetness; tlien 
put tiiese diner^t waters together, set them 
over a large fire to evaporate, till the sirup 
only remains. Thii sirup contracts the fla- 
'vor of faai'lev sugar, and must not be added 
to the clarified honey. 

HORSERADISH POWDER. The 
time to make tliis is during November and 
December ; slice it the thickness of a sliil- 
ting, and lay it to diy very gradually in a 
Dutch oven (a strong heat soon evaporates 
its fiavor) ; when dry enough, pound it and 
bottle it. 

HOT PICKLE. Boil, in two quarts of 
vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two 
ounces of shallots or garhc, and two of gin- 
ger, one ounce of pepper, one of yellow mus- 
tard seed, and a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne; put into a jar that will hold four 
quarts, two ounces of allspice, and pour on 
It tlie hot pickle. When cold, put in any 
firesh-gathered vegetables or fruit, such as 
asparagus, cauliflower, French beans, radish 
pods, um'ipe apples, gooseberries, currants, 
which may be added as the opportunitv of- 
fers, and, as the pickle wastes, it sliouJd be 
Rpleniabed with the same mixture 

H-BONE OF BEEF. See Se^. 

HUNG BEEF. See Beef, 
9 



HUNTING BEEF. 8^ R^f, 
HUNTER'S PIE. See Jruk SUm. 

I. 



IC;E. SoiiietiereB or moulds for 
or fiiiit-ices, are made of two sorts of ma- 
terials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the 
latter is tlie best, tlie substance to be iced 
congealing more gradually in it than in tha 
former; an object much to be desired, at 
-when the ice is formed too quickly, it is venr 
apt to be rm^, and fu|l <^ kunps like hai^ 
especially if it be not well worked with tha 
spatula ; the other utensik necessaiy for this 
operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at 
the bottom, and a wooden spatula about 
nine inolies long; being so for provided, fill 
the pail with pounded ice, over wliich spread 
four handfuls of eak ; tlien having filled the 
sorbetiere, or tnoukl, with cream, &c. ; pot 
on the cover, and immerse it in the centra 
of the ice-pail; taking care tlie ice touches 
tlie mould in all parts; throw in two mora 
handflib of salt, and leave it a quarter of an 
hour ; then take the cover from the mould, 
and witli the spatiiU stir die contents up to- 
gether, so that those parts wliich touch the 
sides of tlie mould, and consefiuently congeal 
first, may be mixed witli the liquid in tlie 
middle; work this about (ttr seven or eigte 
minutes; cover tlie mould, take the pail by 
tlie ears, and shake it round and round finr 
a quailer of an liour ; open the inonkl a see- 
oud time, and stir its before ; continue these 
opei-alions alternately, until the cream, or 
whatever it may be, is entirely congealed, 
and perfectly smooth, and free fi'om lumps. 
Take cai-e to let out the water, which wiU 
collect at the bottom of tlie pail, liy means 
of tlie cork, and press tlic ice close to the 
soiiietiere with tlie spatula. 

When the cream is iced, take it from the 
pail, dip the mould in wanu water, hut not 
to let it remain an instant ; dry it quickly, 
turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. 

All sorts of ices are finislied in tliis man- 
ner ; the preparation of the articles of which 
they are composed, constitutes the only dif- 
ference between tiiem. 

ICE, A VERY LARGE CAKE. Beat 
the whites of twenty fiiesh eggi^ ; then^ by 
degrees, beat a pound of double-iiefined su- 
gar, sifoad through a lawn sieve; mix these 
well in a deep eartlien pan; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of fiesli lemon- 
peel ; do not use more of tlie oi'anse-flower 
water than is just sufficient to flavor it. 
Whisk it for three lioiuv till the mixture is 
thick and white; then, with a thin broad 



ICI 



98 



IR( 



bit of board, spread it all ov«r the (op and 
•ides, and net it in a cool oven, and an boor 
wiU liarden it. 

ICE FOR ICINO (HOW to pre- 
pare). Take a few pounds of ice, break 
it almost to powder, and throw in among it 
a large handful and a lialf of salt; you must 
prepare in tlie cookvt part of the house, that 
as little of the warm air as possible may 
eoine. The ice and salt being in a bucket, 
put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it ; 
nnraenie it in the ice, and drav^ that round 
the pot, so that it may touch every part. In 
a few minutes put a spatula- or spoon in, and 
•tir it weM, removing the parts that ice round 
the edgps to tlie centre. If the ice-cream or 
water, lie in a form, shut the bottom close, 
ftnd move the wliole in the ice, as you can- 
fipt use a spoon to that without danger of 
waste. Tliere should be holes in the buck- 
et, to let the ice off as it thaws. 

ICING FOR CAKES. For a large 
eake, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, 
put it into a moitar, with four Spoonfiils of 
rose water, and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten and strained, whisk it well, and 
when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather 
in the icing, and cover the cake well ; set it 
in the oven to harden, but do not let it re- 
■lain long enough to discobr. Keep the 
cake in a dry place. 

ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk 

6f an egg and some melted butter well toge- 
ther; wash the tarts with a feather, and 
iHl sugar over as you put them into the 
dven; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, 
and sift white sugar. 

ICING, FOR TWELFTH OR BRIDE 

CAKE. Take one pound of double-refined 
•ugar, pounded and sifted throu^ a lawn 
•ieve ; put into a pan quite free from grease ; 
break in the whites of six eggs, and as much 
powder blue as will lie on a sixpence; beat 
it' well with a spattle fur ten mmutes; tlien 
squeeze in tlie juice of a lemon, and beat it 
till it becomes thick and transpaiient. Set 
tiie cake you intend to ice in an oven or 
warm place five minutes ; then spread over 
the t(^ and sides with the mixture as smooth 
as po£»ible. If for a wedding cake only, 
pl^in ice it ; if for a twelfth caxe, ornament 
it witli ^nm paste, or fjuncy articles of any 
description. A good twelfth cake, not bak- 
ed two much, and kept in a cool dry pboe, 
will retain its moisture and eat well» if 
twelve months old. 

ICING FOR FRniT TARTS, PUFFS, 

OR PASTRT. Beat up in a half-pint mug 
tte white of two eggs to a solid firoth ; lay 



some on the middle of the pie wi<li a ipa^ta^ 
brush; sift over plentv of poonded sugar, and 
preeis it down with the hand, wash out the 
bnii^, and splash l^ degrees with water tiO 
the sugar is dissolved, and pot k in (be ovea 
for ten minutes, and serve it up cold« 

IMPERIAL. Pot two ornioes of cream 
of tartar, and ihe juice and pe^ of two lem- 
ons, into a stone jar, pour on them sereo 
qtiarts of boiling water, stir, and cover duae. 
When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, straio 
it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in botuSogg 
half a pint to the whole quantity. 

INDIA PICKLE. (1) TakeonepoondoT 
ginger, put it into amn with salt and wa- 
ter, and let it lay all night, then scrape it,* 
and cut it into diin slices ; put it into a pan 
with half a pound of bay sah, and 1^ it h^ 
till all the following ingredients are prepar- 
ed ; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in 
salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, 
then let it lay in salt' for another three days, 
then take it out and let it hy in the son fbr 
another, till half dry; an ounce of Jong pep- 
per, an ounce of capsicum, salted ar^ laid 
in the sun for three days, a pint of bbdl 
mustard-seed bruised, half an ounce of tur- 
meric, beat very small ; put all these ingre- 
dients together in a jar, then put in as much 
vinegar, as, when tlie cabbage, or whatever 
you intend to pickle, is put into it, tlie vine- 
gar will rise to the top of the jar. Then 
take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever yea 
choose to pickle, and cat than into small 
pieces, throw a good handful of salt over 
them, and set them in tlie sun (wlien it is 
very hot) for three days, drain the wator 
firoin them every day, and fi-esb salt theia 
again, turning tiie leaves till thev are dry, 
then put tliem into tlie pickle, being partic- 
ular that tliey are completely covered with 
the vinegar ; tie it up close, let it stand a 
fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, 
carefully watch it. €rom time to time* to fill 
it up with vin^ar, as it will waste ^ jry last. 

INDU PICKLE. (2) Onegalk>n of vin- 
egar, one potmd of garlic, a quarter of a 
pound of king pepper split, half a pound of 
fiour of mustard, one pound of gingei* scrap- 
ed, and split, and two ounces of turmeric. 
When you have piepared the spice, and pu| 
it into the jar, pour tlie vinegar boiling hot 
over it, and stir it every day for a week. 
Then put in your ct^ibuge, cauliflower, or 
whatever you intend to pickJe. 

INDUN CURRY. See Curry, 

IRISH PUFFS. Add to five weD- 
beaten yolks and two whites of eggs, a Jai^ 
table^poonful of flour, nol quite an ounce of 



isi S 

WBked butter, wul half a tea-fipoonful ot nk ; 
beat it alt well ibr ten minutee, and add bait' 
a pint of cream; bake it in buttered lea- 
"im ibem out, and oerve tbeiu with a 



IRISH ROC^. Blanch a pound of 
fweet and an ounce of bitter aluionds, pick 
•at a few of the sweet alraoods, and cut 
dwm like etraws, and btanch tliem in rose 
water; powid the rest in a mortar with a 
faUe-^xmnful of brandv* four onncee of 
pnmded and sifted loaf sugar, and half a 
poood of salt batter well waslied; pound 
them tin the mass looks very white, and set 
k iaa«ool place to atiflen; then dip two 
fabfe*0poon8 into cold water, and with them 
ICbffin the paste, as much like an egg as pos- 
sible; pboe ia the bottom of a glass dish, a 
small plate or saucer turned, and lay the 
«ock high up; stick ofver it the cut almonds 
with ^reen sweetmeats, and omameat with 
a Bprig of myrtle. 

IRISH STEW, OR HUNTER'S Pie. 

Take part of a neck of mutton, cut it into 

chops, season it well, put it intaa stewpan, 

let it brase for half an hour, take two dozen 

I of potatoes, boil them, masli them, and sea- 

I son them, liutter ^our mouLt, and line it with 

the potatoes, put in the muttuj, bake itibr 

I half an hour, then it will be done, cut a holie 

j in the top, and add some good gravy to it. 

IRISH STEW. Take five thick mut- 
ton chops, or two pounds off the neck or 
loins; two pounds of potatoes; peel them, 
and cut them in halves; six onions, or half 
a pound of onipns ; peel and slice them also : 
firat put a layor of potatoes at the bottom of 
your stewpan, then a couple of chops and 
some of the onions ; then again potatoew, and 
m on, till the pan is quite full ; a small 
apoonfid of white pepper, and about one 
and a half of salt, and thi-ee gills of broth or 
gravv, aud two tea-sporjnfuls of mushroom 
ketchup; cover all very close in« so as to 
prevent the steam from geuing out, and let 
them stew for an hour and a half on a very 
riow fire. A small slice of bam is a great 
addition to this dish. The cook will be the 
best judge when it is dona, as a great deal 
dqiends on the fire ytxi ha^-e. Great cai*e 
must be taken not to let it bum, and tliat it 
does not do too fiist. 

ISINGLASS, TO CLARIFY. Take 
•a ounce and Quarter of the best isinglass, 
eat it into small pieces, and wash them sev- 
eral times in warm water. Put the isinglass 
into a preserving pan, with five glasses of 
filtered water, set it on the fire, and, as soon 
as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, 
ip a* to keep up the boiling; take off the 



> JAM 

scum directly it rises; and when the wholt 
is reduced to three-quarleri, strain it thita^ 
a cloth into a basin fur use. Some add, m 
clarifying isinglass, lerocm-peel, lo reanuvt 
its disagreeul»le taste; but as good isinglass 
ought to have no flavor, and as the lemon* 
peel b certain to five a yellow tiqge to that* 
It is much better feft out. 



ITALIAN CHEESE. Mix with i 
1^ half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, thi 
juice of three lemons, two tal>le-spoonfiili 
of white wine, and a <|uart of cream ; beat 
it with a whisk till quite thick, which maty 
be in half an hour; put a bit of muslin into 
a hair sieve, and pour in the cream. I» 
twelve hours turn it out, and garnish it with 
flowers. It may be put into a tin shape* 
witli holes in it. 

ITALIAN MACAROONS. Take out 
pound of Valenlia or Jordan almonds, blanch* 
ed, pound them quite fine with the whiles 
of four eg^; add two pounds and a half of 
sifted loaf sugar, and rub them well togeth- 
er wiUi the pestle; put Jn by degrees about 
ten or eleven more whites, working them 
well as you put tliem in ; but the best crit»> 
rion to go by in tiyir^ their lightness is to 
bake one or two, and if you find tliem lieayy^ 
put one or two more whites ; put the mix- 
tore into a biscuit-funnel, and lay them out 
on wafer-paper, in pieces about the size of a 
small walnut, having ready about two ounces 
of bliinclied and dry almonds cut inio slipSy 
put tliree or four pieces on each, and bake 
them on wires, or a baking-plate, in a slow 
oven. 06s. — Almonds sliuuld be blanched 
and dried gradually two or three days be- 
fore tliey are used, by which means tbpf 
will work much better, and where larga 
quantities are used, it is advised to griua 
them in a mill provided for that purpose. 



JAM, APRICOT. (1) Weigh equal 
quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of ap- 
ricots ; pare and cut them quite small ; as 
tliey are done, strew over half uf the sugar. 
The following day boil die remainder, and 
add the apricots; stir it till it boils, take 
off the scum, and wlien perfectly clear, add 
port of the keineb bUnched, and boil it 
two or three minutes. 

JAM, APRICOT. (2) AIk>w eqwl 
proportions of pounded loaf sugar and ol 
api'icots ; pare, and cat diem small ; as thqf 
are done, strew part of liie sugar over then), 
and put tlie parings into cold watei*. Break 
the stones, blaiicb and pound the kernel^ 



JAM 



100 



J£L 



which, with the shelki and narinss, boil till 
Iteirthie quantity of water is reduced, and 
tiiere is a sufficiency of tli^ liquor, when 
•trained, to allow three or four table-spoon- 
fiib to a pound of apricots ; put it, with the 
augar ana fruit, into a preserving pan ; mash, 
and take off the scum ; boil it quickly, till 
transparent. 

JAM, APRICXyr, OR ANY PLUM. 
After taking away the stones from the apri- 
cots, and cutting out any bleihishes th^ 
may have ; put them over a slow fire, in a 
dean etewpan, with half a pint of water; 
when scalded, rub them through a hair 
sieve: to every pound of pulp pot one pound 
«^ sifted loaf sugar; put it into a preserving- 
pan over a brisk fire, and when h boib 
skim it well, and throw in the kernels of 
tiie apricots, and half an ounce of bitter al- 
monds, bianrlied ; boil it a quarter of an 
liour fast, and stirring it all the time ; re- 
move it from the fire, and fill it into pots, 
and cover them as directed in Raspbeny 
Jam. N. B. — Green gages or plums may 
be done in the same way, oniitting the ker- 
nels or almonds. 

JAM, BLACK CURRANT. Gather 
your currants on a dry day, when they are 
hill ripe, pick them from the stalks, wash 
them well in a basin, and to every pound 
of currants, put a pound cf double refined 
sugar, beaten and sifted; put iliem into a 
preserving pan, boil them lialf an hour, skim, 
and keep tliem stiiring all the time: then 
put tliem into pots: wl^n cold, put brandy 
paper over, and tie white paper over all. 

JAM, CHERRY. Having stoned and 
boiled three pounds of fine clierries, braise 
them, and let tlie juice run from them; dien 
boil together half a pound uf red currant 
juicer and hfdf a pound of loaf sugar, put 
the clierries into tliese whilst tiiey ai-e boil- 
ing, and strew on tliem tluee-quaiters of a 
pound of sifted sugar. Boil all tugelhcr verj' 
last for half an hour, and then put it into 
pots. When cold put an brandy papers. 

JAW, GOOSEBERRY. Take what 
quantity you please of red, rough, ripe goose- 
berries ; take half their quantity of lump su- 
gar; break diem well, and boil them to- 
gether for half an hour, oi more if necessa^- 
ry. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. 

JAM, Gooseberry, FOR Puddings. 
Allow equal weight of tlie red rough goose- 
berries, and of good brown sugar; gath^ 
the fruit upon a dry day ; top ai^ tail them, 
and put a byer alternately of gooseberries 
and of sugar into a preserving pan; shake 
it finequentiy, skim it weH, and boil it till 



the sfatip jellies, which may be aac eitol nrti 
by cooling a little in a sauced. Black uaA 
red cmrsmts may be cbne in this way for 



JAM, PEACH. Gather the peache* 
when quite ripe, peel and stone litem^ piA 
them into a pre^ierving-pan, and mash thai 
over the fire till hot; rub them through a 
sieve, and add to a pomid of pnip the aanw 
weight of pounded loaf sugar, aiid half aa 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and povnd> 
ed; let it boil ten or twehre miniitea, stir 
and skim it well. 

JAM, RASPBERRY. Weigh eqptA 
proportions of poonded loaf migar and of 
raspberries ; put the fitiit hito a preserving 
pan, and . with' a silver spooo bruise aail 
mash it well ; let boil six- minutes ; add the 
sugar, and stir it well with the fruit; whea 
it boils, skim it, and boil it for fifteen mis- 
utes. 

, JAM, STRAWBERRY. Gather the 

scarlet strau berries when perfectly ripe, 
In'uise tliem well, and add the juice of other 
strawberriei: ; take ap equal weight of kimp 
sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thorouglilv 
tnto tlie fn?!'. imd set it on a slow fire; Iwil 
it twenty n:i:i:n'^', taking off* the scum as it 
rises ; pour it into glasses, or jars, and wlien 
cold, tie them down. 

JAM, WHITE OR RED CURRANT. 
Pick tlie fruit very nicely, and allow an 
equal quantity of fiiiely-pounded loaf sugar; 
put a layer of each alteinately into h preserv- 
ing pan , and boil for ten minutes ; or they 
may be boiled the same length of- time in 
sugar previously clarified and boiled cwady 
high. 

JAUNE MANGE. Boil an oonee of 
isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of water 
till me)te<l; strain it, then add lUtt juioe ef 
two Seville oranges, a quaiter of a pint of 
white wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten 
and ^trained; sugar according to taste; stir 
it over a gentle fire till it just boils up: wben 
cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if 
there shouki happen to be any sedimeat, net 
to pour it in. 

JELLY. To a quart of the sto^E jeflhf 
pot half a pound of loaf sum pounded, a 
stick or two of cinnamon Inmen into small 
bits, the peel of a lemon, a pint of onrraat 
wine, and one of Sherry or Teneriiie, and ths 
beaten whites of five eggs; put it ail into a 
nicely-cleaned saucepan, stir it gently till it 
boils, and boil it for three or four minotes. 
Pour it into a jelly^bag, with a basin or mm 
pkiced underneath; nm it inunediatdi 



{ 



IJSL 



HmNigfa the baif M^i» ^"^ * 
Hid repeat this tin it begins to drop. It 
wiU theo he iw transparent as possible, and 
■aj be pot into moolds or glasses. When 
all * has apparently dripped, pour about a 
pint of boiKng water into the bag, whi'^h 
win prodooe a little thin jelly fit to drink; 
Ike itaad with the jelly-bag should be jphc- 
ed near to the fire; Sherry abne, or Tene* 
rifle, may be used. The jetty soay be |rat 
kto ifuut hooka corked tightly, which wiU 
■lake it keep good for some weeks; |^ce 
Ike bottle in wann water when it is reqair- 
«i fir use. 

JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a 
krge shape, pm to the prepared stock or 
jrily, more than half a bottle of strong ale 
«r porter, a pound of loaf supr, the p^ of 
•ne, and die juice of fiiur ni^ leinons, a 
•tick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of 
eight eggs; put it all into a saucepan, stir 
k gently ; let it boil fi>r fiileen minales, and 
poor it into a jelly4)ag till it runs perfectly 



JELLY, APPLE. (1) Pare, core, and 

cot thirteen good apples into small bits; as 

^ ihey are cut, throw them into two quarts 

L of ooM water; boil them in this, with the 

C peel of a lemon, till the substance is ex- 

C' Iracted, and nearly half the liquor wasted ; 

' drain them through a hair sieve, and to a 

pint of the liquid add one pound of loaf su- 

far poundied, the juice of one lemon, and the 

beaten whites of one or two eggs ; put it into 

a sanoepan, stir it till it btiils, take off the 

seuro; and let it boil till clear, and then pour 

it into a mould. 

JELLY, APPLE. (2) Pare and mince 
dvee dozen of juicy acid apples, put them 
into a pan, cover tliem with water, and boil 
them till very soft; strain them tluxMigh a 
thin cloth or tlannel bag; albw a pmiml of 
lonf sugar to a pint of juice; clarify and 
boil it; add the apple juice, wilh tlie grated 
peel and juice of six lemons; boil it for 
twenty minutes ; lake off the scum as it rises. 

JELLY, APPLE. (8) Pare and cut 
imo slices eighteen brge acid apples; iwil 
fhem in as much u'ater as will novM* them ; 
«rhen quite soft, dip a coarse cloth into hot 
water, wring it dry, and strain the apples 
t hmugh it ; to each pint of juice allow foor- 
teen ounces of fine kMf sugar, clarify it, and 
add, with the apple juice, the peel of a fau^ 
Imon ; boil it till it jellies, which may be m 
ttvienty minutes; pick out the lemon peel, 
tad immediately put it into jars. 

JELLV, APRICOT, l^e eighteen fine 
•priooCs, let them be of a niea red oobr, 



101 



JKL 



I stone them, and cot them in pieoes iatowam$ 
sirup, (nsuallv made with twelve mmoes of 
sugar, btM for apricot jelly it should b# 
rather more liquid than for other jellies.) 
When the firvit m done put it into a napkin, 
to express out all the juice you possibly can; 
which ^ou must add to the sinip in which 
the aprioots have been done, and which had 
been pre^iousljr strained throm^h a silk sieve« 
and after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity of isingnsi to thicken it, finiak the 
same as all otbor jellies. 

JELLY, ARROW.ROOT. Steep hf 
some hours, in two table-spoonfiils of water, 
the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter 
almonds pounded ; strain, and mix it with 
three table-spoonfols of arrow-root, the same 
quantity of lemoo«juioe, and one of brandy;^ 
sweeten, «nd stir it over the fire till quilo 
thick, and when quite oold, put it into jul^ 
glasses. 

JELLY, BARBERRY. (1) Pick • 
pint of barberries, and put them into a stew- 
pan with boiling %vater, cover it close ami 
let it stand till nearly coM. Set on the fire 
some clarified si^gar with a little water, 
(making a quart tuffether;) when it begins 
to boil, skim it well, put in the hartiemest 
let them boil an houu* ; squeeze the juice of 
three lemons through a sieve into a liasin, ttf 
this, pam the liquor fi-om the barberries, and 
then the isinglam. 

JELLY, BARBERRY. (2) Tnkesome 
very ripe barberries (what quantity yoo 
please) and before you seed tliem take two 
thirdu of their weight in sugar. Boil yudf 
sugar, then put your barberries into it, and 
give the whole a few boilings, theri pass it 
throogli a silk sieve into a pan, pressing the 
barberries with a spoon to extract as much 
juice as possible firom tliem ; this done, put it 
again over the (he, and when you perceive 
it begins to form the scum, take it efi' and 
pour it into pots. 

JELLY, BREAD FOR AN INVALID. 
Cut the crura of a penny roll into thin slioeS) 
and toast them equally of a pale brown ; boil 
them gently in a quart uf water till it will 
ielly, which may be known by putting a 
littfe in a spoon to cool ; strain it upon a 
bit of lemon-peel, and sweeten it with s 
A Ihtle wine may be added. 

JELLY BROTH. See Broth. 



JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (1> Tfdi» 

fimr feet, slit them in two, take away 
the fat Ccom between the cbwsivntfh diem 
well in lukewarm water; then put tliem m 
a laiige siewpao, 1^ iioTflr thMk wfiU lAbrt 



JCL 



102 



JEL 



when the liquor boik, skim it well, aiu) let 
it boil gently six or seven hours, that il may 
be reduoetl to about two quaits; then strain 
it through a sieve, and skim o^' all the oily 
substance which is on the sur&ce of the 
liquor. 

If you are not in a hurry, it is better to 
boil the calf's feet the day before you make 
the jelly; as when the liquor is cold, the 
oily part being at the top, and the otlier be- 
.iBg firm, witli pieces of kitchen paper af>pli> 
ed to it, you may remove every particle of 
the oily substance, witiiout wasting any of 
the liquor. 

Put the liquor in a stewpan to melt, with 
a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lem- 
ons, die juice of six, six whites and sheik of 
wgs beat together, and a bottle of Slierry oir 
Madeira ; wbisk the whole together until it is 
en the boil ; dien ]3Ut it by the side of the 
itove, and let it simmer a quarter of an 
hour; strain it through a jelly-bag: what is 
■trained first must be poured into the bag 
again, until it is as bright and as clear as 
rock-water; then put the jelly in moulds, to 
beookiandfirm: if the weather is too warm, 
k requires some ice. 

When it is wished to be very stiff, half an 
ounce of isingkias may be added wlien the 
wine is put in. 

Il may be flavored by the juice of various 
fruits, spices, &c. and coloi-ed with saf- 
fron, CQchineal, red beet juice, spinage juice, 
ekuret, &c. ; and it is sometimes made with 
cherry brandy, or noyeau rouge, or Curacoa, 
i of punch, instead of wine. 



JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (2) Take 
the fat and bones firom eight feet, and soak 
them in water for three or four liours; 
then boil them in six quarts of water, skim- 
ining often ; when reduced to a third, strain 
and set it by to cool ; when cold, take every 
particle o^&t firom the top, and remove 
whatever may have settled at the bdttom. 
Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 
two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, 
and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up 
the whites of twelve eggs with three pounos 
of fine sugar, mix these with the jelly, boil it 
gently, adding the juice of two lemons, and 
then strain it for use. 

JELLY, CHERRY. Take the stones 
and stalks from two pounds of fine clear 
ripe cheiries ; mix them with a quarter of 
a pound of red currants, from which the 
■eeds have been extracted; express the 
juice from these fiiiits, filter and mix it witii 
three^uarters of a pound of clarified sugar, 
and one ounce of isingkuw. Finish the same 
aa Barberry jelly. 

JELLY OF CURRANTS* GRAPE, 



RASPBERRY, Are all made preenelf 
in tlie same manner. When the fruit is fiA 
ripe, gHtlier it on a dry day: as soon as it 
is nicely |Hdied, put it into a jar, and oow 
it down very close* 

Set the jar in a saucepan about three 
parts 6\]ed with cold water; put it on a gen- 
tle fire, and let it simmer for about half an 
hom*. Take the pan from the fire, and poor 
the cimtents of the jar into a jelly ^mg: paai 
tlie juice through a second time; do not 
squeeze the liag. 

To eadi pint of juice add a pound and a 
half of very good lump sugar pounded ; when 
it is dissolv^, put it into a preserving-pan ; 
set it on the fbre, and boil gently; stirring 
and skimming it tlie whole time (about thn> 
ty or forty minutes), t. e. till no more aenoi 
rises, and it is perfectly clear and fine: 
pour it while warm into pots; and when 
cold, cover them with paper wetted ia 
brandy. 

Half a pint of this jelly, dissolved in a 
pint of brandy or vin^;ar, will give you ex- 
cellent cmfant or raspberry brandy or vine- 
gar. 

>06«. — Jellies from other firuits are made 
in the same way, and cannot be preserved 
in peifection without plenty of good sugar. 

Those who wish jelly to tuni out very atifi^ 
dissolve isinglass in a little water, strain 
through a sieve, an'u add it in the proponioo 
of half .-in ounce to a pint of juice, and pot 
it in with the sugar. 

Tlie best way is the ebeapest. Jelliet 
made witli two small a proportion of sugar, 
iwfuire boiling so long ; there is much UMMe 
waste of juice and fiavor by evapwation than 
tlie due quantity of sugar costs; and they 
neither look nor taste half so well. 

JELLY, DAMSON. To eight pooodi 
of damsons, put eight pounds of fine t 
and half a pint of water; boil them for I 
an hour over a gentle fire, till the 
break ; then take them off, and set them by 
for an hour; set them on llie fire again, ftir 
half an hour more ; set them by again for 
die same time; do so the tliird time; while 
they stand off the fire, put a weight imon 
them to keep th^n nuder the sirup. The 
last time, you must boil them till yoo per- 
ceive they are of a very high coka* in ths 
part where tlie skin is broken; then taks 
thein off, set them by to cool, and when tbqf 
are cold, drain off the sirup, and make dn 
jelly in the following manner: — ^Boil aquaa* 
tity of green apples, green gooseberries, aad 

auince cores, to a mash ; then strain then 
irough a hair sieve. Take an et^oal quan- 
tity of this jelly and the former sirup, aad 
boil them over a gentle fire together till they 
jelly ; skim it well, and wbife it m hot, pal 
it into gtoiuws or pottu 



J£L 



103 



JfiL 



JELLY FOR ENTRERfETS. Harts* 

ham, calPs feet, and isingbflB, are the usual 
Materials used Co coagulate sweet jellies ; of 
llMse three, the lattn- is the best, as, when 
poperly clarified, (for which see isinglass). 
It is the clearest, and has no unpleasant, 
flavor. 

JELLY FRIHT. Olari^ half a pound 
of sugar, but the instant before it is quite 
dear, put in a small qoantiw of cochineal ; 
(hen strain, and mix < with U an ounce of 
darified isinglass, and the juice of two lem- 
ons; add to this the fruit of which your jel- 
^ is to be composed; stir them to^jetber 
lightly, pour the jelly into a mould quickly, 
and put the moukl on ice. Obeetve thai the 
wagar and isinglass should he no more than 
loKewann wl^- mixed together. These 
jellies may be mado of any kind of fmit, <Nr 
the grated rinds of lemon, orange, or ce- 
drats. 



JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take an 
ounce of rice, the same of sago, pearl-bnrlcy, 
kartsbom-sfaavin^, and erii^o root; sim- 
mer with three pints of water, till reduced 
to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be 
a jeUy; when you use it, serve dissolved in 
wine, milk, or broth. 

JELLY, GRAPE. Take ont the stones, 
then mash the grapes with your hands, (they 
must tie ripe) then squeeie them through a 
doth to extract all the juioe irom them, and 
lioil and finish the same as currant jelly. 
Use half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
frnit. 

JELLY, HARTSHORN, Boil half a 
pound of hartBhoro shavings for three faoufi 
and a half in four pints and a half of water; 
itratn it throc^ a bit of mnslin, and stir in- 
to it three ounces of dissolved isinglass ; if 
large, the peel of one, if small, of two lem- 
ons, and their juice, haJf the peel of an or- 
ange, three parts of a tea-cupftil of brandy, 
and one of white wine ; sweeten with pound- 
ed loaf sugar, and when lukewarm put it 
into a saucepan with the beaten whites of 
six eggs ; stir it, and let it boil for two min- 
ntes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or 
three times till perfectly clear. 

JELLY, ORANGE. (1) Squeeze the juioe 
of eight oranges and six lemons, jp-ate die 
peel of half tlie fruit, and steep it m a pint 
of coki watery mix it with the juice, three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce 
and a quarter of isii^lass, and the beaten 
whites of seven c^ ; put it into a sauce- 
pan, and stir it till it boils ; let it boil a few 
Minutes, and strain it -through a jel)y4)ag till 
dew; put it into a nookl or gbnn. 



JELLY, ORANGE. (2) BoU in a 

pint of water one otmoe and a quarter of 
picked isinglass, the rind of an orange cut 
thin, a stick of cinnamcMi, a few corianders, 
and three ounces of loaf sugar, till the isin- 
glass is dissolved; then squeeze two Seville 
oranges or lemons, and enoush oranges to 
make a pint of juice : mix all together, and 
strain it through a tamis or lawn sieve into 
a basin ; set it in a cold place for half an 
hour ; pour it into another basin fiiee feom 
sediment ; and when it begins to congeal, 
fUl your mould : when wanted, dip the 
mould into lukewarm water ; turn it out oo 
a dish, and garnish with orange or lemon 
cut in slices, and placed round. N. B. — A 
few grains of saflron put in the water will 
add much to its appearance. 

JELLY, OX-HEEL. Slit them in two, 
and take away the fet between (he claws. 
The proportion of wamr to each heel is 
about a quart: let it simmer gently for eight 
hours (keeping it clean diimroed); it wiU 
make a pint auid a half of strong jelly, which 
is frequently used to make calf's fe^ jelly* 
or to add to mock turtle and other soups. 

JELLY, PEACH, dxt ten or twelve 
peaches in halves, taloe out the stones and 
peel them; set a pint of smooth clarified su- 
^, diluted witli water, on the fire; when 
It has boiled and been skimmed, put in the 
peadies, the kernels should be broken and 
put in with them ; let them boil, very gently 
for toi minutes, then take out four or five 
of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be 
in readiness fbr garnishing the jelly; let 
the remainder of the peaches boil fur ten 
minutes longer; while they are boiling take 
three lemons, cut off the rind, squeeze the 
juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pass 
the liquor df the peaches into it, and then 
the isinglass, running it tlirough tlie sieve 
two or tliree times, in order, to mix it well ; 
fill the mould half full of jelly, and when set, 
put in die peaches and a little more jelly, 
and when that is set, fill op the mouldl 
The reason why the lemons are peeled be- 
fore they are squeraed for this jelly is, that 
tlie oil in the rind would rather spoil the fia- 
.vor of the jelly, duui be any addition. 

JELLY, QUINCE. Quinces for jelly 
ought not to be quite ripe, they shoukl, bow- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color; take off the 
down which covers :them, quarter, core, put 
them into a saucepan, with water enough to 
cover them-; set them on the fire, and wboi 
soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, 
pressing them very slightly; strain the li- 
quor, tuid measure it; clarify, and boil to 
ciits« an equal Quantity of sugar ; then take 
it ofl^ add the bqnor to i^ stiiring it welli 



JDI 



104 



KAV 



^Aum nixed, put it on die firp, etill itiiriiig; 
•0 soon aa the jelly spreads over the spoon, 
•nd &ib from it lilce treacle^ take it from 
the fire, and wlien cold, poor it into pots. 

JELLY, RASPBERRY. Take two 
thirds of rasbenries, and one third red oar« 
rants; pick tlwm, press the juioe tluou^ a 
sieve into a pan, cover, and jihoe it in a 
cellar, or an v otlier cool pboe tor three davs ; 
at the end or that time raise the thick tftin 
formed at the top, and poor the juioe into 
another vessel: weigh Jt, and pot it, with 
half the qnantity of sngar, into a preserving 
pan, set it on the fire; a great deal of sciun 
wiH rise at first, which must all be taken off; 
leave it on die fire for an hour; then pour a 
few drops on a cold pbte, if it cools of the 
proper consistence for jellies, take it from 
the fire and whilst hot pour it into pots ; 
Let the jelly be qaite eoM before die pots are 



JELLY, RUM. Oarify, and boil to a 
sirup, a pound of k>af sugar ; dissolve oae 
ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, 
strain it tbnragh a sieve into the sirup when 
it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir 
in a quart of white wine ; mix it welt, and 
add one or two tabfe-Bpoonfiili of old Ja- 
maica rum, stir it for a few minutes, uid 
pour it into a mould, or into glasses. 

JELLY, STiUWBERRY. Put seme 
finesh-gathered strawberries into an earthen 
pan, bruise them with a wooden qaoon, add 
a littfe cold water, aud some fineh^-poonded 
loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it 
throi^ a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the 
iuioe add one ounce of isinglafls, which has 
been dissolved in half a pint of water, well- 
skimmed, strained, and allowed to ceol; mix 
all well, and pour it into an earthen mould. 

Raspberry jelly, red cuhrant jelly» and red 
omrants mixed with raspberries, mav be 
made exacdy in the same manner ; aud the 
bright red color may be improved by mixing 
in a little carmine or lake. When this kind 
of jeltp is to be made with cherries, the firuit 
should be boiled a few minutes in clarified 
sugar, and when cold, the juioe of one or two 
lemons may be added widi the isinglass. 

A little lemon juioe may be added to any 
of the other jellies, in proportion to the acid- 
ity of the finiit. 

They may. be iced by bovering and surv 
lauodiBg the mould with ice) without any sah. 

JUICE. The proportioQ of oranges 
should be double dnt of lemons; dM fiiiit 
being selected fim fnm decay, and wiped 
dry, diegr are to be sqneeaed^ mmI the juice 
strained through a eieve into oBewrtheD pmi; 
JO eodi iwitv •noordiag.to dto acidity of the 



finnit, a poond olid h half, of It poatad mid 
three-quartore, of double-refined soear^ bfO' 
ken small, is to be added. It must bestirred 
and skimmed daily, till the sogar m well >•• 
cotporaled, o^as k»g as the scum rinev; 
and when it has been a month io the pan* it 
may be boiled. 

JUICE OF FRESH FRUIT ICED. 
Press through a sieve the iuioe of a piot of 
pickled currants or raspberries, add to it 
foor or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a 
littls lemon jniee,-and a pint of cream. It 
may be whisked previous to freezmg, and a 
OMXture of the juioe may be used* 



JUUENNE. This soup 
of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, oetory, lei- 
taoe, sorrel and chervil ; the roots areout ia 
thin>slips, about an inch bug, the onions are 
halved and then sliced; the lettnoe and aor* 
rel chopped small ; toes up the roots in a 
little butter, when they are done, add the 
lettuces, &c. moisteQ them with broth, and 
boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or 
more, if necessary ; prepare some bread ia 
the usual way, aiKl pour the juliewm over it. 

JUMBLES. MiK one pound of fee 
flour with one pound of fine powder si^ar, 
make them into a liglit paste with whites of 
egss wdl beaten ; skid half a pint of dream, 
half a poOnd of fteah butter, melted, and « 
pound of blanched almonds, pounded ; knead 
them all togedier, thoroughly, with a httls 
rose water, and cut out tlie jumbles into 
wlialever forme you think proper; and ekth- 
er bake them io a gentle oven, or fry them 
in fresh butter; serve them in a diefa, melt 
finesb butter with a spoonfiil of moanttiin, and 
strew fine sugar over the diiih^ 

JUSTICE'S ORANGE SIRUP FOR 
Punch or Puddings. Squeeie the or^ 
anges, and strain the juioe from the pulp 
intu a largo pot; boil it up with a pound and 
a half of fine sugar to each pint of juioe; 
tkua it well; kst it stand till eoki; dien 
bottle it, and cork it well. Ofrs.— lliis 
■Uftkes a fine, soft, melfow-flavored punch; 
and, added to mehed boucr, is a ( 
to puddings* 



K. 

KAVU. Take die hard roes of wMvhA 
sturgeon, and k^ them in a Uib of wmcT} 
take away aU the fibres as you woidd ftom 
a cairsbraias, then, widi a whisk, beat dw 
roes id the water,ahaking off fi-om dw whiUt 
whatever filing may be adhering to it; tbc« 
bydieTCeioasievisforaehorttiw;, iiftr 



KID 



105 



KIS 



wlMcii pat tiwni into fresh water again; and 
oontinue to whip tbem, and chiuige the wa- 
ter, until the roes are perfectly cleansed and 
free fi'om fibre; lay them oo sieves to drain, 
■eason them well with salt and pepper; 
wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up 
like a ball, and let them drain tluM till the 
oext day, when serve them with fried bread, 
and sfaaliote chopped small. If they are to 
be kept for sometime, put more salt to them. 

KEBOBBED VEAL. Ste VeaL 

KELLY'S SAUCE. Set Sauce. 

KERRY BUTTER MILK. Put six 
qssrts of butter-milk into a cheese cbth> 
hmg it in a cool place, and let the whe^ 
drip from it (or two or three days; when it 
is rather thick, put it into a basin, sweeleo 
it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a ghiss 
of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much 
ffsspberry jam, or simp, as will cok>r and 
give it ail agreeable flavor. Whisk it well 
together, and serve it in a glass dish. 

KETCHUP, ENGLLSH. Peel ten 
cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put tliem in- 
I to a qtiart of white wine vinegar ; take a quart 
of white Port, put it on the Ire, and when it 
boils, put in twelve or fourteen anchovies, 
washed and cut in pieces; let them simmer 
in the wine till ihiey are dissolved; when 
cold, put thein to the vinegar; tlien take 
half a pint (^ white wine, and put into it 
some inace^ some ginger sliced, a few cloves, 
a 8{ioonful of wbofe pepper bruised; let them 
boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a 
whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with 
two or tiiree spoonfuls of horsenradish ; add 
it to the rest, stop it close, and stir it once 
or twice a day. Keep it ckise stopped up. 

See Muehroom Kettbup, 

KEW MINCE. Cut a pound of meat 
from £ ieg of cold roasted mutton, and mince 
it veiy finely, tether witli six ounces of 
suet, mix with it three or four table-spoon- 
fiils of crumbs of bread, the beaten yolks of 
(bur eggs, one anchovy cl>opped« some pep- 
per and salt, and half a pint of Port wme ; 
put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a 
9uick oven{ ixtm it out into a dish, and pour 
some brown gravy over it; serve wiui it 
venison sauce. When a veal caul is not to 
be had, the mince may be done in a sauce- 



KID, Kid is good eatinjp when it is but 
du«e or ibur months oki, its flesh is then 
delicate and tender, but is not used afler it 
has done sucking. To be good, it ought to 
be fat and white. It is droaued ia the same 
jp^ouer 9s laml^ or fiiwo* 



KIDNEYS. Cbt them thnmgh the loiig 
way, score them, and sprinkle them over 
with a little pepper and snlt; in order to 
broil all over alfke, and to keep them hom 
Cttriii^ on the gridiron, nm a wire skewer 
right through them. They mmt be broiled 
over a clear fire, being carefiil to turn them 
frequently till they are done; they will .take 
about ten or twelve minutes broiling, provi- 
ded they are done over a brisk fire; or, if 
you choose, you may fiy them in birtter, and 
make gravy for them in the pan (afler the 
kidneys are taken out), by putting in a taa- 
spoonful of flour; as soon as it kioksbrown, 
put in a sufficient quantity of water as will 
make gravy; they will take five minutes 
kMiger fr}'ing than broiling. Garnish with 
fri^ parsley: you may improve them if yoa 
tliink proper, by chopping a few parsley 
leaves very fine, mix them with a bit of fi eso 
butter, and a little pepper and sak, and then 
put some of this mixture over each kidney. 

KISSES. (1) Put the whites of eight 
eggs, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, into a China basin, and whisk till 
they become a firm froth, then add Imlf a 
pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with great 
care by means of a spatub: that done, by 
small pieees of this mixture on white paper ; 
make each drop alxwt the sixe of a ratafia, 
rather conical than flat; place the paper 
wjhich contains tliem on a piece of wood 
about an inch thick, and put them in a very 
hot oven: wiUch them, and as soon as yoa 
perceive they begin to k>ok yellowish, take 
them out, and detach them from the paper 
with a knife as cautiously as possible, for 
they are veiy tender. Take a small spoon, 
and with the end of it remove the moist part, 
which is at the bottom, so as to make them 
a little hollow, and as you do them, lay each 
on the paper, the hollow side upwards; put 
them on the wood into the oven agaiu for a 
few minutes to dr>' ; when draie, lay them 
in boxes, and keep them in a dry and wann 
place. If they are for table, fill the holk>w 
of each witM a little whipped cream or rasp- 
berry jam; put them together by couples, 
the cream or jam inside ; place them in a 
dish, and serve them as soon as passible, 

KISSES. (2) One pound of the best loaf 
sugar, powdered and sifted. The whites of 
fi)ur eggs. Twelve drops of essence of lem- 
on, A tea-cMp of currant jelly. Beat the 
whites of four eggs till they stand akmew 
Then beat in, gradually, the sugar, a lea- 
spoonful at a time. Add the essence of lem- 
on, and beat the whole very bard. Ldiy » 
wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a square 
tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distaneee, a 
small tea^epoonful of stiff currant jelly. 
With a large spoon, pile some of tb^ beaMP 



LAH 



106 



LAft 



white of egg and «ug[ar, on each lamp of 
jeHy, ao aa to cover it entirely. Drop on 
the mixture as evenly as powible, so as to 
make tbe kisses of a round smooth ibape. 
Set than in a cool oven, and as soon as 
they are colored, th^ are done. Then take 
them out and plaoe them two bottoms to> 
cether. Lay tliem lightly on a sieve, and 
dry them in a cool oven, till the two bot- 
toms stick fast together, so as to ibnn bne 
ball or oval. 

KNUGKLE8. Ske ihttnerml mmU 
iowkiek they htUmg* 



LAMB. Tlie ibre qnarter of kunb eon- 
■ists of the shoiikfer, the nedt, and the 
breast together; the hind quarter is the leg 
and loin. There are also the head and 
pfaick, the fry or sweetfaceads, skirts, lamb* 
■tones,, and liver. In choosing the fore 
qoarter, the vein in the neck dwwd be rud- 
dy, or of a bluish color. In the hind quar- 
ter, the knuckle shoald feel stiff, the kidney 
■mall, and perfectly (rash. To keep it, tfaie 
joints should be carefoUy wiped every day, 
and in warm weather, sprinkled with a lit- 
tle pepp^. The fore qoartw is the prime 
joint, and Bhooh] be roasted and basted 
with butter; the gravy is made as fac beef 
or mutton. Mint sauce is served in a sauce 
tureen, and half a lemon is sent to table 
with it, the juice of which is squeezed upon 
die ribs after the shoulder is eat off, and 
they have been sprinkled with salt. If the 
joint weiflhs five poraids, it will require to 
be roasted one hour; if teu pounds, one hour 
and three-quarters. The hind quarter may 
be roasted, or the leg of it boiled. Tbe 
loin is then cut into steaks, fried, and serv- 
ed round it; the outside bones being cover- 
ed with a fringe of fried parak^. A dish 
of spinach is generally served with the 



LAMB, Is a delicate, and commonlv 
oooBidered tender meat; but those who talk 
of tender lamb, while they ara thinking of 
the age of the animal, forget that even a 
ebicken must be kept a proper time after it 
has been killed, or it will oe tough picking. 
To the usual accompaniments of roasted 
meat, green mint sauce, and a sa)ad> is ooni^ 
flionly added ; and some cooks, about five 
minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a 
little frcsli gathered and finely minoed pars- 
ley. Lamb, and all young meats, ought to be 
thormghly done; therefore do not talLe either 
lamb or veal off the spit till you see it drop 
white grav^. When ^;reen mint camiot be 



voC, mint vinegar is an aeoeptable edbetiftrfli 
for it ; and crisp parsley on a side plate, ia 
an admirnhle accompaniment. 

Hind'Quarterf Of etglH pounds, wil 
take fi^m an hour and threieKjuarters to two 
hours: baste and fivth it. The leg and 
the loin of lamb, when little, should be 
roasted together; the former being lean, the 
latter ftit, and the-graTy is better preserved. 

Fort'Quarter, Often pounds, about two 
hours. It is a pretty seneral custom, when 
you take off the shoulder from the ribs, to 
squeeee a Seville orange over them, and 
Ririnkle them with a little pepper and «dt. 
This may as well be done by the cook be- 
fore it comes to table; scMne people are not 
remarkaMy expert at dividing these jointe 
nicely. 

Leg, Of five pounds, frnm an iMmr to aa 
hoar and a half. 

Shoulder, With. a quick fire, an hour. 

Ribs, About an hour to an hour and a 
quarter: ioint it nicely, craek the ribs acroas, 
and divide them from the brisket after it is 
roasted. 

Loin, An hour and a quarter. 

N^eek, An hour. qq 

Breaet, Three^pnrters of an hour. 

LAMB BREAST. Cat it into pieces, 
and stew it in a weak stock, with a ^aas 
of Port wine; add pepper and salt. When 
it ia perfectly tender, tliicken the saufae 
with butter and flour. Have veady cooom- 
hers stewed in gravy, put them over the 
kunb before serving. A breast of mottoa 
may be served in the same way. 

LAAfB CHOPS BROILED. Oit a 

loin or best end of tbe neck into chopa, flat- 
ten tliem, and cut df the &t and skin ; ndb 
the gridiron with a little fet, and broil them 
on aclear fire. Turn them with steak tongs, 
till quite done. Serve them hot. 

LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or fein of 
lamb into chops; rub them over with the 
beaten yolk of an eg^; dip them into grated 
bread, mixed witli |Menty of chopped pam- 
ley, and season with lemon-peel, pepper, 
and salt; fry them a light bi-own in good 
dripping; make a sauce with the trimmings, 
and thicken the sauce witli butter rolled in 
fioor; add a little lemon pickle and mush- 
room ketchup. Garnish with fried parBlqr« 
They may be served with or witbout the 
gravy. 

LAMB CUTLETS. Cktt the cutlets off 
the loin, into round bits ; trim dff the fin anA 
skin; dip them into the beateq yolk of n 
egg, and then into bread crumbs, mixed 
with minoed parsley, crated nutmK, and 
lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. F^ ttiem « 



LAM 



107 



LAII 



^iit bitMvn in darified beef sueC) dnihi 
mem on the beek of a sieve befere the fire. 
Senre tbem with mehed botlier with a little 
lemon pickle in it, or » brown annoe thick- 
ened. Gamiflh with cut lemon. 

LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. 

Half roast a smalt fore quarter of Iamb; cot 
it into steaks, season them with a little salt 
and pepper; lay them into a dish, and pour 
in a little water. Boil a poimd of rioe 
with a blade or two of mace; strain it, and 
itir in a good piece of fresh butter, and a 
tittle salt, add also the greater part of the 
yoUcs of four e^ga beaten ; cover the hunb 
widi the rice, and with a feather pot over 
h the remainder of the beaten eggs. Bake 
it in an oven till it has acquired a light 
brown cokMT. 

LAMB FEET. Clean, well wash, and 
bhnch six lamb's feet; stew them, till they 
become tender, in some white stock, with a 
iHoe of lean ham, one onion, some parsley, 
dlyme, two blades of mace, a little whole 
pepper, and a few mushrooms. Before 
serving, strain the sauce ; thicken it with 
floor and butter, and half a pint of cream ; 
boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet 
and the juice of half a small lemon. Gar- 
nish with sippets of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape. 

LAMB FRY. Fry it plain, or dip it 
in an egg well beaten on a plate, and strew 
some fine stzile bread-crumbs over it; gar- 
nish with crisp parsley. 

LAMB, LEG OP, BOILED. It should 
be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as 
white as possible. Gut the loin in steaks, 
dip them in egg, strew them over with 
br«ad-«rumb8, and fiy them a nice brown, 
serve them round the dish, and garnish with 
dried or fried parsley; serve with spinach 
to eat with it. 

LAMB PIE, THE GERMAN WAY. 

' Obt a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard 
them with small lardons of bacon, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a 
bay-leaf; add fat bacon pounded, small on- 
ion9, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; put these 
into the pie, and let it bake for three hours ; 
vrhen baked, cut it open, skim off all the 
fiM, poor in a ragout of oysters, and serve 
hot. 

LAMB PIE, A SAVORY OlfE. Cut 

die meat into pieces, and season it with 
pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutm^, 
inely beaten. Make a ^(md puff paste 
crane, pot the meat into it, with a few 
■weotwvads. 



the SMM M the meat Then pot i» mm* 
oyscers and foroemeot baHs, the yolks of 



luuti egzs, and the tops of asparagus, 
two indhea kmg, first boiled greeo. 
batter aH over ue pie, pot on Uie lid. 



aooick 
tofgrn- 



let it bake for an hour and a half in a i 
oven. In the meantime, take a pint of gra- 
vy, the oyster lk)oor, a gill of red wine, and 
a little graled nutmeg. Mix all togedwr 
with the yolks of two or doiee eggs, finely 
beaten, and keep stirring it the sam^ way 
all the time. When it boils, poor it into 
the pie, pot on the lid again, and serve k to 
table. 

LAMB, TO ROAST OR BOfL. A 

quarter of an hour is generallv allowed to 
each poond of meal; a leg of'^hunb of fivo 
poonds wiN therefore take an hoor and a 
quarter to roost or boil, the other joints ia 
the same proportion; serve either with sa- 
lad, pickW, broeoli, cauliflowers, string 
beans, pease, potatoes, or cocumbers, raw 
or stewed. 

LAMB SHOULDER, GRILLED. Boil 
it ; score it in cheqoen about in inch square, 
rub it over with the yolk of an egg, pepper 
and sak it, strew it with brend*cramb8 and 
dried parsley, or sweet herbs, and carbo- 
nado^ t. e. ^ill, i. €. broil it over a clear 
fire, or put it in a Dutch oven till it is a 
nice light brown ; send up some gravy with 
it, or make a sauce for it of floor aiid water 
well mixed togetlter with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a table-spoonfol of mushroom <n* 
walnut ketchup, and the jnice of half a lem- 
on. See GriH sauce. Breasts of lamb 
are often done in the same way, and with 
mushroom or mutton sauce. 



LAMB STEAKS FRIED. F17 

of the nicest brown; when served, throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of 
bread fried, ami crisped parsley. Or yoo 
may season them and broil than in buttered 
papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or 
without, according to taste. 

LARD, HOG'S. The lard should be 
carefully meked in a jar, put into a kettle - 
of water, and boiled; run it into bladdera 
that have been particularly well cleaned. 
It is best to have the bbdders anmll, as dw 
lard will- keep better, fbr, af^er the air 
reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it i* 
melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. T\m 
being a vrary useful article in fryiiig fish, it 
should be prepared with great care; Mix- 
ed with batter, it makes a fine crust. 

LARKS: These delicate little hmk ara 
in high season in November. Wlien tlwr 
are thdrooghly picked, gutted, and cleansed^ 



LEI 



108 



LEM 



truH them; do them over with the yolk of 
^g, and tlien roll them in bread-crumbe ; 
■pit them on a lark spit, and faatenx that on 
to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will 
be sufficient time to roast them in before a 
quick fire; whilst they are roasting, baste 
uem with fi-esh butter, and sprinkle them 
with bread-crumbs till they are well cover- 
ed with them. Fry some grated bread in 
butter, set it to dram before the fire, that it 
may harden. Ser^'e the crumbs in the dish 
under the larks, and garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

LAVENDER DROPS. FiU a quart 
bottle with the blossoms of lavender, and 
pour on it as much brandy as it will contain ; 
let it stand ten days, then strain it, and add 
of nutmeg bruised, cloves, mace, and cochi- 
neal,, a quarter of an ounce each, and bot- 
tle it for use. In nervous cases, a little may 
be taken dropped on a bit of sugar ; and in 
the beginning of a bowel complaint, a tea- 
spoonfiil, taken in half a glass of pepper- 
mint water, will often prove efficacious. 

LAVENDER WATER. Put into a 
larae bottle, eight ounces of the best recti- 
fied spirits of wine, three drachms of oil of 
lavender, one drachm of essence of amber- 
gris, and threepence-worth of musk ; cork 
It tightly, and shake it well every day, for 
a fortnight or three weeks. 

LEAVES, TO GREEN, FOR ORNA- 
MENTLNG FRUIT. Take small leaves 
of a pear-ti'ee, keep them close stopped in 
a pan of verjuice and water, give Uiem a 
boil in some simp of apricots ; put them be- 
tween two pieces of gliiss to dr^- ; smooth 
and cut them into die shape of apricot- 
leaves (the leaves should be procured with 
stalks); atlck them about the apricots or 
any other preserved fruit; but the leaves 
must be cut in die shape of the leaf which 
belongs to the fruit you ornament. 

LEEKS. Leeks are most generalljr used 
Cor soups, ragouts, and other made dishes, 
they are very rarely brought to table ; in 
which case dress them as follows: — Put 
them into the stock-pot till about three parts 
done; then take them out, drain, and soak 
them in vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and cloves; drain them again, stuff the 
hearts with sl farce, dip them in batter, and 
fry them. 

LEIPZEGER PANCAKES. Beat well 
the whites of four, and the yolks of eight 
fresh eggs, and add, by degrees, half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, a pint and a 
Dalf of sweet cream just warmed, half a 
pound of clarified fi-esh butter, two ubk- 



spoonluls of fi^eili yeast, and a wine-ghsB fid 
of spirits of wine ; then mix in as much sifted 
flour as will make it into a thick batt^; 
let it rise for half an hour ; roll it out thin ; 
cut it into rounds cm: oblong pieces, and bj 
on them iam or marmalade ; double them, 
and let them stand again to rise, and fry 
them in boiUng fi-esh lard or fauttar.. 

LEMONADE. To a gallon of spring 
water add some ciniutmon and cloves, plen- 
ty of orange and plenty of lemon-juice, and 
a bit of the peel of each ; sweeten well with 
loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of 
six effgs, and the yolk of one; give it a boil, 
and u^n let it simmer for ten minutes; then 
run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand 
till cold, before it is dnmk. 

LEMONADE TRANSPARENT. Th* 

peel of fourteen lemons havmg been soaked 
in two quarts of water for two hours, their 
juice, one pound and a half of sugar, and a 
quart of white wine, are to be added ; a 
quart of new milk, made boiling hot, is then 
to be mixed with it, and when it has stood 
an hour, it is to be strained through a jetty- 
bag till it runs clear. 

LEMON BONBONS. Take two pounds 
of the best himp sugar, clarify and boil it to 
caramel; but just befoi*e it reaches that 
point, grate the rind of a lemon and fjot in 
It;- in the meanwhile melt a little butter; 
skim, and pour it off clear; take a spooufiil 
of tliis butter, and rub it wiUi your hand over 
a copperplate or marble slab, on which pour 
tlie caramel sugar: then have a sword blade, 
take an end in each hand, smd impress lines 
in tlie sugar about an inch apart; then im- 
press similar lines across the first, so as to 
form small cakes ; this operation sliould be 
performed as quickly as possible, lest the 
sugar should cool before the wliole is mark- 
ed ; when however all is done, pass the 
blade carefiilly between the sugar and the 
slab, lay it on sheets of v^rhite paper, and 
when perfectly coki, separate the mn^oiw, 
and wrap eacn in paper; keep them in a 
dry place. 

LEMON BRANDY. Three quarts of 
brandy being put into an earthen jar that is 
fitted with a cover, a pound and tliree^iuar- 
ters of fine loaf sugar, the thin norings of 
six lemons, and the juice of twelve, are to 
be added ; one quart of boiling milk is to be 
poured over the mixture, which must be 
stirred daily for eight days ; it is then to bo 
run througli a jelly-bag and bottled. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Boil the 
peel of two laq^ lemons till th^ are quits 
tender, and then pound it well in a mortar. 



X.EM 



109 



L£M 



with fiMir or five ouqom of loaf «agar, the 
yblkfl of six eggB, half a poaod of fi^h but- 
ter, and a little curd beaten fine : pound and 
mix altogether, lay a rich puff paste iu some 
pjit^-paiis, fill them half iiiil, and bake them 
carefully. 

L£MON CHEESECAKES. M ix four 
onmoes of sifted lump sugar^ and four ounces 
of batter together, and gently melt it ; then 
add the yolks of two, and toe white of one 
egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and 
the juice of one lemon and a half, one sa- 
vory biscuit, some blanched almonds, pound- 
ed, three spoonfuls of brandy; mix the 
whole well together, and put it to paste 
made with tlie following ingredients: eight 
ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two- 
thirds of whid) must be mixed with the 
flour first ; then wet it with six spoonfuls of 
waier, and roll in the remainder of the but- 
ter. 

LEMON CHIPS. Take large smooth- 
rinded Malaga lemons ; race or cut off their 
peel into chips with a small knife (this will 
require some practice to do it pi-opeily) ; 
throw them into salt and water till next 
day; have ready a pan of l)uiling water, 
throw them in and buil tliem tender. Drain 
them well: after having lain sometime in 
water to cool, put tliem in an eartiien pan, 
pour over enough boiling clarified sugar to 
cover them, and then let tiiem lie two days ; 
dim strain tlie sirup, put mwe sugar, aiid 
reduce it by boiling till the sirup is quite 
diick ; put in the chips, and simmer them a 
few minutes, and set tliem by for two da^s: 
repeat it once more ; let tliem be two days 
longer, and they will be fit to candy, which 
must be done as follows: take four pfnts of 
clarified sugar, which will be sufficient fur 
six pounds of chips, boil it to tlie degree of 
blown (which may be known by dipping the 
skimmer into the sugar, and blowing strong- 
ly through the holes of it; if little bladders 
appear, it has attained tliat degree); and 
when the chips are thoroughly drained and 
wiped on a clean cloth, put them into the 
sirup, stirring them about with the skimmer 
till y(M] see the sugar become white; then 
take them out with two forks; shake them 
lightly into a wire sieve, and set tliem into 
a stove, or in a warm place to diy. Ora^ige 
chips are done in the same vtray. 

LEMON ESSENCE. Rasp your lem- 
ons all round, very thin, and for every quar- 
ter of a pound of rind, allow one pound of 
sugar; mix it well with a large spaddle till 
I yoQ find it is all of the same color, aod that 
the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone 
jar, and press it down as hard as you can ; 
put a bladder over the pap^ you cover witli, 
10 



and tie it oter (|utte tlsht; put it by, and io 
a month's time it will be fit for use*. 

LEMON JUICE TO PRESERVE. 

Squeexe, and strain a pint of lemon-juice; 
put into a China basin one poimd of doulile- 
refined sugar finely pounded and sifted, add 
the lemon^uice, and stir it with a silver 
moon till the sugar be perfectly dissolved. 
BoUle it, and cork it tiglitly ; seal the cork, 
or tie bladder over it, and keep it in a di y 
cool place. 

LEMON MARMALADE. Allow to a 
pound of lemons eighteefi ounces of fine 
loaf sugar ; grate the rind of a few ; cut 
them into half; squeeze and strain the juice; 
boil tlie skins in the stune way us those 
of the orange skins are done ; scoop out the 
fMilp and white part; cut half into thin cJiipa 
or paringM, and pound tlie other half in a 
morUu- ; pound die sugar, and pcMir over it 
tlie juice ; stir, and let it Imil for five min- 
utes; skim it; take it off tlie lire; put in the 
parings and the pounded skitis ; boil it for 
five minutes, llienadd the gi'ated peel, and let 
it boil for five minules more ; take it off, and 
stir it till half cold, before |)utting it into jars. 

LEMON MINCE PIES. Squeete out 
the juice from a large lemon ; boil the out- 
side till sufiicieully tender to beat to a mash, 
add to it three large apples cliopped, and 
i4>ur ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, 
four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of tlie 
lemon, and add candied fitiit, tlie same as 
f<>r other pies. Make a sliort crust, and fill 
tlie patty-pans iu tlie usual manner. 

LEMONPEEL ESSENCE. Wash 
and brush clean tlie lemons; let them get 
perfectly dry : take a kimp of loaf sugar, and 
rub them till all the yellow rind is taken up 
by the sugar: scrape off the surface of the 
sugar into a preserving pot, and press it 
hard down ; cover it very close, and it will 
keep for som^ime. 

LEMON-PEEL QUINTESSENCE. 
Best oil of lemon, one drachm, strongest 
rectified spirit, two ounces, introduced by 
degrees till the spirit kills, and completely 
mixes with tlie oil. This elegant prepara- 
tion possesses all tlie delightful fragrance and 
flavor of the freshest lemon-peel. Obs.—A 
few drops on the sugar you make punch with 
will instantly impregnate it with as much 
flavor as the troublesome and tedious meth- 
od of grating the rind, or rubbing the sugar 
on it. It will be found a superlative sub- 
stitute for fresh lemon-peel for every purpose 
tliat it is used for: blancmange, jellies, cus- 
tards, ice, negus, lemonade, and pies a|id p«id- 
dings, BtuMugs, soups, sauces, ragouts, &c. 



LEM 



no 



LEM 



LEMON-PEEL TINCTURE. A very 
eiu^ and econojnical way of obtain! !ig^ and 
preserving die iiavor of jemon-peel, is to fill 
a wide-mouthed-pint bottle half full of bi*an- 
dy, or proof spirit ; and when you use a 
lemon, pai-e the rind off very thin, and put 
it into the brandy, &c.: in a fortnight it 
will impregnate ttie spirit with the flavor 
very strongly. 

LEMON PICKLE. (1) Grate off a 
little of the outer rind of two dozen of lem- 
ons, divide them into four rather more than 
half way down, leaving the bottom part 
whole ; rub on them equally half a pound 
of finely-beaten salt, spread them upon a 
lai^e dish, and pit Uiem into a cool oven. 
When the jtiice has dried up, put them into 
a stone jar, witli an ounce of cloves and one 
of mace finely beaten, one ounce of nutmeg 
cut into tliin slices, a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, 
also half a pint of white mustardnBeed bruis- 
ed and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over 
the whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, 
stop the jar closely, and let it stand for tliree 
monlhs; then strain it thi-ough a hair sieve, 
pressing it well through ; let it stand till the 
next day, pour off the clear, smd put it into 
email bottles. Jjet the dregs stand covei*ed 
some days, when it will become fine. It 
will keep good for years. When the lem- 
ons are to be used as pickle^ no straining is 
necessar}'. 

LEMON PICKLE. (2) Cut into quar- 
ters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- 
dling sized lemons; put them into a jar, 
strew over them two ounces of well beaten 
salt ; cover the jar with a clotli and plate, 
and let it stand three days ; tlien put to tiiem 
cloves and a quarter of an ounce of mace 
beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shallot, 
two of mustardHseed bruis^, and one nut- 
m^ sliced. Make a quart of vinegar boil- 
ing hot, and pour it over the ingredients ; 
cover the jar, and in three or four days ck)se 
it with a bung, and tie leath^ over it. It 
will be fit for use in a week, and is an im- 
provement to most sauces, and particularly 
to fish sauce. 



LEMON POSSET. Squeeze the juice 
of two lemons into a China bowl, or small 
deep dish, tlmt will hold a quart ; sweeten 
it like sirup, add a little brandy ; boil one 
pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel ; 
take out the peel; when cold, put the cream 
into a teapot, pour it to tiie sirup, holding 
it high. Make it the day before it is want- 
ed. 

LEMON PUDDING. See Pudding, 



LEMON RINDS MARMALADE. 
•Having squeezed the jui(% from yomr lonons, 
cut out all the white part, and put the rinds 
into boiling water; as soon as they begin to 
soften, take them firom the fire, and throw 
them into cold water; then lay them on a 
sieve to drain, and make them into manooa- 
lade, in the same manner as apricots. Or- 
ange rinds are done this way. 

LEMON SPONGE. Boil half an ounce 
of isinglass in a pint of water till dissolved; 
strain it, and the following day add the 
juice of two lemons, and tl^ grated peel <^ 
one ; rub through a hair sieve, into the isin- 
glass a good quantity of raspberry jam, that 
has stood before tne fire some time, and 
whisk it all together till like a sponge ; pat 
it into an earthen mould, set it in a cold 
place for some hours, and turn it out. Any 
(ther sort of preserve may be used, and ii 
made with only orange or lemon-juice, 
sweeten it with sugar, or make it with 
orange jeHy which may have been left the 
day before. 

LEMON SYI.LABUBS. Take a pint 
of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of 
two lemons grated, and the juice ; sugar ac- 
cording to taste; let it stand some time; 
mill or whip it, lay the fi-oth on a sieve; pot 
tlie remainder into glasses, and lay on the 
fix)th. They sliould be made the day before 
they are wanted. If you should wish them 
to taste very strong of the lemon, you must 
make use of the juice of six lemons, and 
nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep 
four or five days. 

LEflJONS, SIRUP OF. Put a pint of 
fresh lemon-juice to a pound and three- 
quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a 
gentle heat ; skim it till tlie surface is quite 
clear ; add an ounce of thin-cut lemon-peel ; 
let diem simmer (very ^ntly) together for a 
few minutes, and run it tlirough a flannel. 
When cokl, bottle and cork it closely, and 
keep it in a cool place. Or, Dissolve a 
quarter of an ounce (avoirdupois) of citric, 
t. «. crystallized lemon acid, in a pint of 
clarified sirup ; flavor it with the peel, or 
dissolve the acid in equal parts of^ simple 
sirup, and sirup of lemon-peel. 

LEMON WATER. Put two slices ef 
thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit 
of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large 
spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boil- 
ing water, and stop it close for two liour;. 

LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. Boil j 
a pound of the finest sugar, take it off tlie i 
fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon at diflerent times, stirring contiiuudty « 



LOB 



111 



LOB 



it will make tbe sugar as while as milk if 
properly done ; take care not to drop any 
f^ the seeds into it ; work it well together, 
and when ii is c^an equal substance (which 
prove in the same manner as any oth^ jelly)* 
pour it into a mould. LemcMi conserve is 
made in the same manner, only that the su- 
gar must be boiled to a greater height than 
for white lemon conserve. 

LOBSTER. Buy diese aljve; the lob- 
ster merchants sometimes keep, them till 
they are starved, before they boil them; 
they are then watery, have not half their 
flavor, and like other persons that die of a 
coosomption, have lost the calf of their legs. 
Choose those that (as an old cook says, are 
** heavy and lively,'* and) are fiill of mo- 
tion, which is the index of their freshness. 
Those of the middle size are the best. Nev- 
er take them when the shell is iocrusted, 
which is a sign they are old. The male 
lobster is preferred to eat, and the female 
(on account of the egps) to make sauoc of. 
The hen lobster is distinguished by liavinga 
broader tail than the male, and less cbws. 
Set on a pot, with water suhed in propor- 
tion oi a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of 
water ; when the water boils, put it in, and 
ke^ it boiling briskly from iialf an hour to 
an hour, according to its eiz ;; wipe all the 
■com off it, and rub the shell with a very 
little butter or sweet, oil; break off the 
great eJaws, cnxk, tliem carefully in each 
joint, so that th^ may not be shattered, 
and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail 
down the ouddle, and send op the body 
whole. 

LOBSTERS, to choote. Tlie heaviest 
are considered the best. When alive, if they 
are quite fresh, tbe claws will have a strong 
motion when you put your finger on the eyes 
and press them. When you buy tliem i-eady 
boiled, try whether tiieir tails are stiff and 
pull up with a spring, otherwise that part 
will be flabby. The cock-lobster may be 
distinguished from the hen by the narrow 
back part of the tail, and the two uppermost 
fins witliin it are stiff and hard; but those 
of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. 
The male, though generally the smallest, has 
the highest flavor, the flesh is firmer, and 
tbe color when boiled is a deeper red. They 
ccKne in about April, and remain in season 
till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are 
preferred for sauces, on account of their 
coral. 

\C3^ Lobsters are told in Boston, al- 
ready boiled, and are always fresh and 
good, 

LOBSTER A LA* BRAISE. Pound 
the meat of a la* ge lobster very fine with 



two 4Ninoet of butter, and season it with 
grated notnieg. salt, and white pepper; add 
a little grated oread, beat up two (^gs, r»- 
ser\'e part (b put over the meat, and with 
the rest make it up into the fonn of a lob- 
ster. Pound the spawn and red part, and 
spread it over it; bake it a quarter of an 
hour, and jusC before serving, lay over It the 
tail and body shell, with the small claiivapat 
underneath to resemble a lobster. 

LOBSTERS OR CRABS, buttered. 
Pick all the meat fixxn the bodies of either, 
mince it small, put it into a saucepan with 
two or three table-spoonfiils of white wine, 
one cX lemon-pickle, and three or four of 
rich gravy, a bit of butter, some salt, pep- 
per, and grated nntmeir; thicken it with 
the yolks of two eggs beat up, and when 
quite hot, put it into the large shells; gar- 
nish them widi an edging m( bfead toasted. 

LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break the 
sliells, and take out tlie meat carefiilly, cut 
it and tlie red part, or coral, into pieces, 
adding the spawn ; thicken with flour and 
butter some white stock, with which the 
shells have bee.i boiled; season it with 
white pepper, mace, and salt, put in the 
lobster and hmt it up ; just before serving, 
add a liltfe lemon-juice, or lemon pickfe. 
The stock may be made with the shells, only 
boiled in a pint of water, with some white 
pepper, salt, and a little mace, thickened 
with cream, flour, and butter. 

LOBSTER KETCHUP. Clioose a 
lobster that is full of spawn, and weighing 
as nearly as possible three pounds ; pick out 
all tbe meat, and pound the i^ part or co- 
ral in a marble mortar; when completely 
bruised, add the meat; pound, and moisten 
it widi a little slierry wine, mix with it a 
tea-6|»onfiil of cayenne, add the rest of the 
bottle of sheri*y, and mix it thoroughly ;^ put 
it into two wide-mouthed bottles, and on 
the top put a small table-spoonfiil of whole 
pepper, cork the bottles tightly, and tie 
them over with leatlier. It will keep good 
a twelve-month, and exactly resembles fiesh 
lobster sauce. Four table-spoonfuls heated 
in melted butter are sufficient for a large 
sauce-tuieen. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (1) Pick the 
meat and i-ed berries out of a lobster, minoe 
them finely, add grated bread, chopped panK' 
ley, and iHitfer ; reason witli grated nutmeg, 
white pepper, and salt ; add a little white 
stock, cream, and a table-spoonful of white 
wine, with a few chopped oysters; heat it 
all together. Line tlie patty-pans with puff 
paste; put into each a bit of crumb of bread, 
about an inch square, wet tbe edge of tbe 



LOB 



112 



MAC 



e, and cover it with another bit;" with 
the paste-cutter mark it ail round tiie rim, 
and pare off the paste round the edge of the 
patty-pan. When baked, take off the top, 
and with a knife take out the bread and a 
little of the inside paste, put in the prepar- 
ed lobster, lay on the top paste, and serve 
them in a napkin. Another way to pre- 
pare the paste. — Roll it out nearly half an 
inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a 
tin cutter, and,witli one or two sizes less, 
mark it in the midd'e about half dirough. 
When tliey are baked, carefully cut out the 
inner top of the paste, and scoop out the in- 
jude, so as to niuke room for the mince, which 
put in, and place on the top. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (2) Prepare the 
patties as in the last receipt. Take a hen 
lobster already boiled; pick the meat from 
die tail and claws, and chop it fine ; put it 
into a st«wpa5i, with a little of the inside 
spawn pounded in a mortar till quite smooth, 
an ounce of fresh butter, half a gill of cream, 
and half a gill of veal consomme, cayenne 
pepper, and salt, a tea-spoonful of essence 
of anchovy, the same of lemon-juice, and a 
table-spoonful of flour aud water: stew it 
five minutes. 

LOBSTER PIE. (1) Boil Umj lobsters, 
and cut the meat of the tail into four bits ; take 
out the meat ,from the claws and bodies, 
pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of 
one lobster, and season with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, add three table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar; molt half a pound of butter, and 
mix it with the pounded meat and the crumb 
of a slice of grated bread. Put puff paste 
round the edge and side of the di^h ; put in 
the tail of the lolwter, then a layer of oys- 
ters with tlieir liquor, and iH'xt the pounded 
meat; cover it with a puff f>asle, and biike 
it till the paste l)e done. Befute serving, 
pour in some rich giavy, made t>( a litUe 
weak stock in wlucli tlwlobsier t?h«;ll8 have 
be^n b<)ile<i, with an onion, pepper, and 
Siilt, and which has been stinincd and thick- 
ei>ed with a bit of butter roiled in Hour. 

LOBSTER PIE. (2) Take out, as 
whole US possible, tlie meat from the tail 
and claws of two or three boile<l lobsters ; 
cut them into slices, and season tliem with 
nctmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a force- 
meat of the s^ft part" of the bodies, logetlier 
witli grated bread, some parsley, and one 
anchovy minced, grated lemon-{)eel, mace, 
salt, and pep()er, tlie volks of two hard- 
boiled eggs bruised, and a bit of butter; mix 
it all together widi the well-beaten yolk of 
an egg, and make it up into small balls. 
Put the lobster into tlie pie-dish, and cover 
.it with the forcemeat balls, aud bard-boiled 



j^Iks of eggs ; add more ttttvn half a piM tf 
rich white stock, a glass of white wine, and 
a table-spoonfnl of lemon-juioe or vin^ar 
Cover it with puff paste, and uake it oaHj 
till the paste be done. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. Cbooee ft €no 
spawny hen tobdter; be sure it is treeh, pick 
out the spawn and the red coral into a mor- 
tar, add to it half an ounce of butter, pcMind 
it quite smoodi, and rub it throogfa a hair- 
sieve with the back of a wooden spoon ; cot 
the meat of the lobster into small equarea, or 
pull it to pieces with a fork ; pat the poimd- 
ed spawn into as much melted hotter aa yoa 
think will do, and stir it together till it h 
Uioroughly mixed ; now pot to it the meat 
of the lobster, and warm it on the fire ; take 
care it does not boil, which will ppoti its 
complexion, and its brilliant red color wiff 
immediately fade. The above is a very easy 
and excellent manner of making this sance. 
Some use strong beef or veal gravy instead 
of melted butter, adding anchovy, cayenne, 
ketchu[ , cavice, lemon-juice, or pickle, or 
wine, &c. 

LUNCHEON FOR -AN INVALID. 

Put bread cnunbs and red currant, or any other 
jelly, ulteniatety into a tumbler, and 
neaiiy lialf lull,' I'LU it up witli milk. 



MACARONI, TO MAKE. Beat four 

eggs for eight or ten minutes, strain them, 
and stir in dour till stiff enough to work into 
a paste upon a marble, or stone s>lab; add 
flour till it be a stiff paste, and work it well; 
cut off a small bit dt a time, roll it out as 
tliin as paper, and cut it with a paste-cot- 
ter or^mfe into very narrow strips; twist, 
and lay them upon a clean cloth, in a dry, 
warm place ; in a few hours it will be per- 
fe<;lly haid ; put it into a box, with white 
paper under and over it. It may be cut in- 
to small stars, or circles, to be used for scHvp, 
and does not re(|uire so much boiling as tlte 
Italian Macaroni.^ 

M ACARON I. The osual mode of dress- 
ii g it in England is by adding a white 
sauce, and Parmesan or Qieshire cheese, 
and burning it; but this makes a diah which 
is proverbially unwholesome : its bad quali- 
ties ai'ise from the oiled and burnt cheese, 
and the half-dressed flour and butl^ put into 
the white sauce. Macaroni plain boiled, 
and some rich stock or portable soup added 
iv 't quite hot, will be found a delicious didi 
and very wholesome. Or, boil macaroni as 
directed in the receipt for the podding^ and 



MAC 



113 



MAC 



i It quite hot in a deep turaon, and let 
each guest add grated ParmeBan and oold 
kmtlery or oiled butter served hot, and it is 
esoellent ; tbift is the most ocnnnKm Italian 
mode of dressing it. Macaroni with cream, 
sqgar, and (Cinnamon, or a Httle ▼arioeili 
added to thecream, makes a very nice sweet 
dish. See Maearoni Pudding for the 
BmHngofU* 

MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 
Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of 
nilk, with a bit of lonon-peel, and a good 
hit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to 
their ntmofet size withcmt breaking. Lay 
i on a custard-dish, and pour a costard 
I hot. Serve cold. 



MACARONI GRATIN. Ujr fried 
bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your 
macaroni in the usoaK way, and pour it into 
diedish; smooth it all overhand strew bread* 
crmibs on it, then a pretty thick layer of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; <m>p a little melt- 
ed butter on it, and color it with a salaman- 
der. 

MACARONI NAPOLITAINE. Boil 
two pounds of macaroni ibr half an hour, in 
sak and ^ater; then pia it into a cuUeoder 
to drain. Take three-quarters of a pound 
of cheese grated; put a layer of mamroni, 
in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layor 
of macaroni, the cheese,^ and so on,. aJler« 
nately, till both are- uaed up, making the 
cheese the top; pour over it some gravy, 
melt half a pound of fresh b^itter, and put on 
the whole. Serve it very hot. 

MACAROx\I TO SERVE. (1) Sim- 
mer it in a little stock, with pmuwied nia<% 
and salt. When quite tender, take it out 
<rf' the jiquor, lay it in a dinh, grate over it a 
good dead of ^lieese, then over that put bread 
p:ated very fine. Warm some butter widi- 
out oiling, and pour it from a boat throtign 
a little eartlien cullender all over tlie cniins, 
then pot the dish in a Dutch oven to roast 
the cheese, and brown lite br^id of a fine 
eolm*. The bread should be in 8e{iarate 
IS, and look liglit. 



MACARONIIX) SERVE. (2) Wash 
it well, and simmer it in half milk, and 
half of veal or mutton 8t(x;k, till tlie 
macaroni is tender; tlien take a spoonful 
of the liquor, put to it the yulk of an eg;^, 
beaten in a spoonfiil of cream ; just make it 
hot to thicken, but do not let it boil ; pour 
it ov^ the macaroni, and then grate fine old 
dieeseall over it, and add l^its of butter; 
kKowa it nicely with the salamander. 

MACARONI STEWED. BoUaquar- 
10* 



ter of a pound of macaroni in beef stack, ttB 
nearly done; then sti-ain it, and add a giO 
of cream, two ounces of butter, a table spoon- 
ful of the essence of ham, three ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a Uttle cayemw 
pepper and salt; mix them over a fire fix* 
five minutes, then put it on a dish, strew 
grated Parmesan cheese over it, smooth it 
over widi a knife, and cokur it with a very 
hot I ' ' 



MACARONI TIMBALE. Take i 
puff paste, roll it thin« and cut it into narrow 
bands; twist each into a kind of cord, 
which .place round the inskles of buttered 
moulds, snail fashion ; fill ead) mould with 
macaroni, cover the tops with grated bread, 
and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of 
each) ; put the THmbaU* into a warm oven, 
and bake theia three-quarters of an hour; 
then turn them on a dish, and serve. 

MACAROONS. Take a pound of sweet 
almonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a 
little rose-water to prevent t^yevc oiling ; add 
a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites 
of ten eggs to a solid frotli, and add to 
the above ; beat all togedier for some time. 
Have ready wafer paper on tin pliites, drop 
tlie mixture over it separately, the size of a 
shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little 
sugar, and bake tl^. 

MACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch a 
prmnd of sweet almonds, throw tliem into 
cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a 
napkin to dry, anti leave diem (or twenty- 
^r hours ; at the; end of that time, poiuid 
thpm, a bandfiil aif.a time, adding ixxasion- 
ally some white of egg, tiU the whole is re- 
duced to a fine pauOe; tlien take two pounds 
of the best himp sugar, pound and nift it, 
then put it to the iiJmonds, with tlie grated 
rinds of two lemons ; beat these ingredients 
togetlier in the mortar, adding one at a time, 
as many eggs as ^ou iSnd necebsary to nioibt- 
en the patite, which siiould be diin, but nut 
too much so, as in that case it would run ; 
your paste being ready, take out a little in a 
spoon, and lay tlie macaroons on sheets of 
while paper either round or oval, as you 
please; lay them at least an inch apart, be- 
cause tliey spread in baking, and if put near- 
er would touch. Tlie whole of your paste 
being used, place the sheets of paper on 
tins in a moderate oven fi>r three-quarters of 
an hour. 

This kind of cake requires great care and 
attrition ; it will be well therefore to take 
notice of the folbwing nides: 1. To mind 
that the abnonds are perfectly diy befor* 
you begin to pound them. 2. Take great 
care that not a particle of die yolk is mixed 
with the white of egg, which would entirely 



MAC 



114 



MAI 



ttdoil the color of the macarooiw, and prevent 
! their rising in the ^ven; to avoid this, open 
each separately, and if perfectly fresh, divide 
the yolk and white with great care. 3. Tiie 
'oven mimt be no more than moderately heat- 
ed, nothing being more liable to burn than 
mhnonds and sugar ; by the least negligence 
<fii this respect, the suil^e would be burned, 
whilst the inside would remain unbaked. 
The best method to obviate any mischief of 
.Ais sort: — put two or three macaroons into 
'the oven to try it ; leave them in tiie usual 
•time ; and if, when you take them out, ihey 
are of a clear yellow, the oven is property 
heated, and the* whole of the macaroons may 
then be put in. 

MACKEREL, TO CHOOSE. Their 
1 gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, 
-and the whole fish stiff and bright ; if the 
gills are of a fkmt color, the fish limber and 
wrinkled, they are not fresh. 

•MACKEREL BAKED. Ort off their 
beads, open th«n, and take out tlie roes and 
clean them thoroughly ; rub them on the in- 
'eide with a little pepper and salt, put die 
roes in again, season {hem (with a mixture 
of powdered alMpice, black pepper, and 
salt, well rubbed together), and lay tliem 
close in a baking>pan, cover them witli equal 
quantities of cold vinegar and water, tie 
them down with strong white paper doubled, 
and bake tliem for an hour in a slow oven. 
They will keep for a fortnight. 

MACKEREL BOILED. This fish 
loses its life as soon as it leaves the sea, and 
the fresher it is the better. Wash and clean 
them thoroughly (.the fishmongers seldom do 
tliis sufiScientlv), put them into cold water 
with a handful of salt in it; let them rather 
simmer than boil; a small mackerel will be 
done enough in about a (juarter of an hour ; 
when the eye starts and tlie tail splits, they 
are done; do not let tliem stand in the wa- 
ter a moment after; they are so delicate 
that the heat of die water will b^eak them. 

MACKEREL BROILED. Clean a fine 
large mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and 
cut a lung slit down the back ; lay it on a 
clean giidirun, ovei* a very clear, slow fire; 
when it is done on one side, turn it; be 
r:ireftd that it does not burn; send it up 
\uth feratei sauce; mix well togedier a 
YatUi finely minced fennel and parsley, sea- 
soned wiUi a little pepper and salt, a bit of 
fresh butter, and wlien the mackerel are 
iiiady for the table, put some of this into 
each fish. ' 

BfACKEREL, THE GERMAN WAY. 
ti^plit them down the bock, and season them 



widi pepper and salt; blt>il them, and otppb 
with- the following sauce; pick and mwah 
some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and gguai 
onions ; but use only a small quantity of each. 
Boil them tender in a little veal stock ; then 
chop them up, and add to them some fresh 
butter, the liquor they were boiled in, aome 
grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemoo, « 
little cayenne pepper, and salt. Let it Ixoil, 
diicken it with flour, and sorve in a sauce 
boat. 

MADE DISHES. Be cardbl ia trim 
off all the skin, gristle. Ice. that 'will not be 
eaten ; and shape handsome^, and of eveo 
thickness, the various articles idiicli coaspoie 
your made dishes: this is sadly neglected bj 
common cooks. Only stew them till thef 
are just tender, and do not stew them to 
rags; therefore, what you prepare the day 
before it is to be eaten, do not dress quite 
enough tlie first day. We have given re> 
ceipts for the most easyand simple way to 
make hashes, &c. Those w1m> are woH 
skilled in culinary atts can dress up thii^ 
in this way, so as to be as agiieeable as tfaey 
were the fust time they were cooked. 



M ADELAIDES. Take nine ounces df 
powder-sugar, eight of fiour, the yolks of 
four and six whole eggs, two spoonfiils o£ 
brandy, and a grain of salt ; put these into 
a- saucepan, stirring ocmtinually, until the 
paste thickens ; ai^ which, st^ only one 
minute ; clanfv ten ounces of good freEli bat- 
ter, wiUi which, butter about two and thirty 
madelaine moulds, pour the remainder of the 
butler into your preparation; set it on a 
gentle stove, stir till it begins to become li- 
quid, take it off b^ore it has time to get too 
hot, put a little of tliis into each mouU, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. 

M A DE L A I N E S IN SURPRISE. 

Make them in the usual way; when cold, 
cut a thin slice from die bottcmi, take oat 
nearly all the inside; pound four ounces 
of blanched filberts, mix diem with eioht 
spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, whit^ 
mixture put into the madelaines, and place 
die slice taken fi-om the bottom, and serve 
tliem. 

MAITRE D»HOTEL, COLD. Put a 
quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, 
with some parsley and shallots, minced anaO 
salt, whole pepper, and lemon-juice; mix 
'the Whole together with a wooden spooiu 
Pour the Mtdtre d* Hotel either over, un> 
der, or into whatever meat or fish you in- 
tend to serve. 

MAITRE D*HOTEL MAIGRE. Pot 
into some nicely melted butter a little chop* 



HAT 



lis 



MIL 



ftod purrifly, nH, and InHNMincs; mm cr 
«in> minoed ihaiioii mfty be •doed,«Dd Imt 
il«U togedwr, 

MARCHPANE ROYAL, l^ke a 
*poand of 0iraet «liaoiid8, bltnoh and throw 
them into cold water, drain and pound them, 
moistening with orange-flower and plain 
^water, bttt take care not to pat too mooi at 
taoe. The ahMonds beiiig ndiioed to a 
^pastey pat then wMo a preiei^vnig pan with 
laSf a pound of powder flnaar, aet the pan 
on a moderate fire to dry roe paste, which 
will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, 
it no iaaget slicks io your ioger, then lake 
it oat and |daoe it on a plate or wafer paper, 
^pveviootly sprinkled with sugar: as soon as 
It n cold cut it in pieces, which roU in voor 
hand to the sin of your little finser; form 
Ifaem into rings, and lay (hem on Tran grat- 
ings, glaxe ai^ pot th«a into a brisk ofen 
to color. The above paste may also be em- 
ployed as ibUows: roll it oat and out it in 
half, spread over one piece apricot marnm- 
hde, or any other prcsci - w ynu pieara, cover 
it with the odier pnece, cut it into losenges, 
epesoents, &c., according to your fancy, lay 
them on the grating as above, glaae axid co- 
lor them in a quick oven. 

MARJORAM, SWEET, TO PRE- 
SERVE. Beat np very well the white of 
an egg, then beat very fine and sift scmie 
doubl^refined sugar; take some maijoram 
and rub it on a ^ss that is quite clean, and 
by it in the form of the glam; so do it with 
dieegg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and 
lay it on paper to dry. 

MARMALADE. Marmalade may be 
eompoeed of almost any iiraits; the best, 
however, for this purpose are, apricots, peach- 
es, oranges, quinces, egg-phms, apples, &c. 
TVSy are usually made by boiliiv the firuit 
and sugar together to a kind ofpnlp, stir- 
ring them constantly whilst on the fire; it in 
kept in pots, which must not be covered till 
the marmalade is quite cold. The propor- 
tion of sugar is half a pound to eadi ptnind 
(firuit. 

ICF* See Namee ofArtielee, of which 
U ia nuUte* 

MARROW BONES. Chop the bones 
«t each end so as to stand steady, then wash 
them clean, saw them in halves, cover the 
Hipwithafloaredololh: boil them, and serve 
%rith dry toast. 

MATELOTE MEAT. Take beef, veal, 
antton, and pork, a laree slice of each, and 
msman<meof kgof laiDo; cut them in small 
^pieces, which pot into a saucepan with equal 
4|aaBlities of stock «Dd champaign, salt and 



wfitom, cover then very dose, and aet theH 
OB hot ashes for six hoars, then serve it. 

MEAD. (1) To every gallon of water 
pat four poonds of honey, U>il it an hoir. 
Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a 
toast; oover it over. If it fennents well af- 
ter three or four days, draw it off clear, and 
put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced fo 
eveiy gsHon ; add a bottle of brandy to eve- 
ry ten gallons. The rind of Seville oranges 
cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a 
great improvement to the flavor. It is best 
to wash the cask round with port of the 
brandy, before the Uquor is put ia. 

MEAD. (2) One part of honey is diswhr- 
ed in three parts of water, and boiled over a 
moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirdi 
<^ the qramtity. It is then skimmed, and 
put into a barrel, which mist be quite full; 
it is allowed to subside for three or four 
days, and then drawn off" for use. Tomake 
it tirom the combs firom which hooey has been 
drained, they are to be beaten in warm wa- 
ter, and after the liquor has subsided, it is 
to be strained. The co tt ag e i a in Scotland 
make an excellent beer by adding a little 
yeast to the strained liquor, and aUowtng it 
to ferment, for a few days, io a cask, and 
then bouliag it. 

MEAT CAKES. Take whatever meat, 
game, or pocdtr^, you may chance to have, 
(it is the better for being under'<kMie) ; mince 
it fine, adding a little fet bacon or Imra, or 
anchovy; season witli a little pepper and 
sak; mix the whole well together, and make 
it into small cakes, about three inches in 
length, an inch and a half in width, and half 
an inch thick ; Grjf them of a light brown, 
and serve them with good gravy; or put it 
into i| mould, and boil or bake it. 

. MEAT, TO KEEP HOT. If your 
meat is done before ^rou are ready to serve, 
take it -up, set tlie dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a de^ cover over it, so as not to 
touch tiie meat, and then put a^loth over 
that. Xhis way will not dry up the gravy. 

MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST. 
See Coffee* 

MILK PUNCH. (1) Beat up two 
eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, su- 
gar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel Io your taste; 
boil it gently, stirrii^ it all the time till 
thick enough ; take it off the fire a very few 
minutes, tlten add to it a fiill quarter of a 
pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time 
the ram is pouring in, or it will not be good. 

MILKPUNCai. (2) Eight poonds of re- 



M!N 



116 



MOO 



iiiMd sugar are to be dissolved in the strain* 
ed juice of three dozen lemons, and, -when 
quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two 
gallons and a half of cold i^i'ater, are to be 
added, and also the lemon-peel ; one gallon 
of boiling milk being then poured over the 
ingredients, tliey are to siand closely covered 
for fWenty-four liours; when, beino^ skimmed 
and run through a very thick jelly-bag, it 
may be quickly bottled, and will be ik for 
immediate use; but it improves by keeping. 

MINCED COLLOPS. This is a &- 
Torite Scotch dish ; few families are witfa> 
out it: it keeps well, and is always ready to 
make an extra dish. Take beef, and chop 
and mince it very small ; to which add some 
salt and pepper. Put this, in its raw state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top scHne clar- 
ified butter. When intended for use, put the 
clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and fir)' them. Add 
a little water to it, and then put in the minced 
meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes 
it will be fit to serve up. See Coliopt, 

MINCE MEAT. Two pounds of beef 
suet, picked and chopped fine ; two pounds 
of apple, pared, cored, and minced ; three 
pounds of rturanta, washed and picked ; one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped fine ; 
one pound of good moist sugar ; half a pound 
of citron, and one |x>und of candied lemon 
and orange-peel, cut into thin slices; two 
pounds of ready-dressed roast beef, free from 
skin and gristle, and chopped fine; two nut- 
m^, grated; one ounce of salt, one d* 
ground ginger, lialf an ounce of coriander 
seeds, half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce 
of cloves, all ground fine ; the juice of six 
lemons, and tl^ir rinds grated ; half a pint 
of brandy, and a pint of sweet wine. Mix 
the suet, apples, currants, meat-phims, and 
sweetmeats, well together in a large pan, 
and strew in the spice by cbgrees; mix the 
sugar, lemon-juice, wine, ami Ix^andy, and 
pour it to the other ingredients, and stir it 
well tos;edier ; set it by in close-covered pans 
in a colcrplace: when wanted, stir it up from 
the bottom, and add half a glass of brandy 
to the quantity you require. N . B.^The same 
weight of tripe is frequently substituted for 
the meat, and sometimes tlie yolks of eggs 
boiled hard. Obe, — ^The lean side of a Uit- 
tock, thoroughly roasted, is generally chosen 
for mince meat. 

MINUTEN FLEISH. Cut from off a 
le^ of veal some slices as thin as the blade 
of^a knife, and about four inches k>ne; sea- 
son them with pepper and sak, lay them in- 
to a deep dish, pour over them nearly half 
a pint of white wine, let it stand for three 
hours.' Cover the bottom of a stewpan with 



eateh slice of the veal oo bodi 
sides with l&onr; add a little move wiae, 
and as much good white stock as will cover 
it, and the juice of a lemon. Cover the pan 
closely, and let it simmer five minutea, and 
serve it instantly, otherwise it will beoome 
hard. 

MOCK AKRACK. Dissolve two acni- 
ples df flowers of benjamin in a quart of 
good nm, and it will immediatelv iaapart 
to it the inviting fingraooe of "Vaj 



MOCK BRAWN. See Braum. 

MOCK CAPER SAUCE. See Samee 
Caper, 

MOCK GOOSE, OR LEG OF PORK 
ROASTED WITHOUT THE Skik. Parboil 
it; take off the skin, and then put it dowo 
to roast; baste it with butter, and make a 
savory powder of finely minoed» or dried 
and powdered sage, ground black pepgtet^ 
salt, and scnne bread<cnimbs, rubbed togeth- 
er through a colander; you may add to this 
a little very finely minced onion : sprinkle it 
with this when it is almost roasted. Put 
half a pint (^ made gravy into the dish, and 
goose stuffing under the knuckle skin; or 
lish the dish -with balls of it fried or 

iled. 



gamii 
boiled 



MOCK ICE. Of preserved stravirber- 
ries, raspberries, and red currant je' ^, a 
table-spoonfiil each ; rub it through a sieve, 
with as much cream as will fill a riaape; 
dissolve thiee^uarters of an ounce of isin- 
g1a.'s in lialf a pint of water; lyboi alnaost 
cold, mix it well with the cream, put it into 
a shape, set it in a cool place, and turn it 
out the following day. 

MOCK TURTLE. See Soup Ca^*9 
Head, 

MOORFOWL, TO STEW. Tnw 
them, keeping on their heads, but draw the 
legs witliin une body; mix well some salt 
and pepper with flour and a piece of butter, 
and put a small hit into each bird; fry than 
all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown 
some butter and flour, and add to it some good 
gravy, seasoned with peppor, salt, mace, and 
two cbves pounded ; boil up the sauce, pot 
in tlie moorfowl, and let them stew very 
slowly till tender. A little before takins 
them ofi* the fire, add a table-spoonfol of 
mushroom ketchup. If the bircb are oM, 
stew them for two hours; if youne m 
half that time. Cold roasted nooortowl i 
dressed exactl] 
intojointSj 



KBCtly in the same way only cat 
I, and stewed very gently nearly at 



MUS 



117 



HITS 



iMa^. Half an hour facfore Mrnof , a mall 
teo-oiVilul oi Pfiit wins shoiiM be added. 

MUFFINS. (1) TakeoMtfHDtofKilk 
qaile waim, aad a quarter f^a piat of thick 
flmaU4)eer yeast; straia then into a pan, and 
add sufficieBt Apur to make it like a hatler; 
eover it over, and let it stand in a warm 
pfane until it bas risen ; then add a quarter 
•f a pint of warm milk, and one ounce of 
batter ruUied in aome flour quite fine; mix 
tbem well together : then add sufficient flour 
to make it into dough, eov«r it over, and 
let it stand half an hour ; then work it up 
again, and break it into small pieces: roll 
Ihem up quite round, and cover them over 
fcr a quarter of an hour; then bake them. 

MUFFINS. (2) Mix two pounds of 
ioar with a couple of eggs, two ounces of 
uBlter melted in a pint of milk, and four or 
6ve spoonfuls of yeast ; beat it thoroughly, 
and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake 
it on a hot^hearth in flat cakes, and turn 
them, when done, on one side. 

MUFFINS. (3) Take two quarts of 
warm water, two spoonfuls of yeast, three 
poraids of flour; beat it well for half an 
hour, and k.i it st^od an hour or two ; bake 
them on an iron baking-stove (rub it well 
over with mutton-suet as often as they are 
laid on) ; as soon as they be^in to cobr, 
turn tbe«n ; they will be sufficumtly baked 
when colored on both sides. 

MULLAGATAWNY. Boil sbwiy in 
two quarts of wator one pound of split peas, 
t»tf an ounce of butter, two onions sliced, a 
iittie salt, cayenne, and two blades of nutce. 
When the peas are tender, put in a large 
fowl, cut in joints and skinned, two quarts 
of boiling water, or stock, if the soup be i^e- 
quired very rich; twenty minutes beibie 
serving, add a lai^ table spoonful of curiy- 
powder, and the same of ground rice. 

ICJ^ For Mulk^atavmy Stn^, tee 
Soupe. 

MULI.ED WINE.^ Put into a pint of 
Port wine two or thi-ee cloves and a bit of 
cinnaioon ; . boil it for a few moments ; take 
Sut the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, 
and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a 
slice of toasted bread, the crust pared off, 
asid cut into ohloos pieces. The Port wine 
is sometimes boiled with a third of its quan- 
tity of watw. 

MUSHROOMS, TO CHOOSE. The 
mushrooms fHroper to be used in cookery 
^row in the open paatwis Umd, for thoee tb^t 



trow new or rnidar tratt, an ftmamm^ 
The eatable mushrooms int. apjsear vetf 
small, and of a round form, on a httle slaJk. 
They grow very rapidly, and the upper pail 
and stalk an winte. As they uwrease m 
the under pMt gnuimi^ efiMfi •ad 



shows a fringed for of a wry floe i 
lor, which oootinoes mora or lea tiH the 
mushroom has gained some viae, and than 
turns <to a dark ^WB. These marks should 
be attended lo, and likewise whether the 
skin can be ensilv parted from the edfs 
and middle, and whether ihey have a ptcM- 
ant smell. Those which aro poisenoiM have 
a yellow skin, and the under pmt has not the 
clear flesh color of the renl miwhroem; be- 
sides whioh, Ihey smell rmik and < 
ble, and the for is white or yeUo«< 

MUSHROOM KETCHUP. If yw 
k>ve good ketchup, aentle reader, make it 
yomvelf, after the following directions, and 
you will have a delicious relish for made- 
dishes, ragouts, soups, sauces, or hashes. 

Mushroom gravy Approaches the naUm 
and tiavor ofsaeai gravy, more than any vege- 
table juice, and is the fluperlative substitule 
for it: in meagre soups and extempore grap 
vies, the chemistry or the kitohen has yet 
contrived to agreeably awaken the palale, 
ondoicourage the appetite. 

A couple of quarts of double ketchup, 
made aooording to the following receipt, 
will save you some More pounds of meat, 
besides a vast deal of time and trouble; ps it 
will furnish, in a few minutes, as good sauoe 
as can be made for either fish, flesh, or fowl. 

I believe the foHowiuj; is the best way of 
extracting and preparing tlie essence of 
mushrooms, so as to procure and preserve 
their flavor for a considerable length of time. 

Look out for mushrooBOs Grom the begin- 



ning of Septembm'. 

Take care they are the right sort, and 
fresh gathei«d. FuU-grown flaps are to he 
IMreferred: put a layer of these at the boUom 
of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them 
with salt; then another layer of inushrooms, 
and some more sah on thwi ; and so on al- 
ternately, salt and mushrooms: jet them re- 
main two or three hours, by which' time the 
salt will have penetrated the mqfkrooms, and 
rendered them easy to break ; then pound 
them in a mortar, or mash them well with 
your hands, and let them remain for a couple 
of days, not longer, stirring them up, and 
mashing them weU each day ; then pour them 
into a stone jar,«nd to each quart add an 
ounce and a half of whole black pepper, 9od 
half an ounce of allspice; stop the ja« very 
close, and set it in a stewpgn of boiling wn- 
ter and keep it boiling for two hours atleast. 
Take out the jar, and pour the jome Glie»r 



MUS 



118 



MUT 



iroDD theiettlingsthroogli a hair siere (without 
■queezing the nwehrooiiu) into a cl^n stew- 
pan; let it boil very gently for half an hour: 
those who are for superlative ketchup, will 
continue the boiling till the mushroom-juioe 
is reduced lo half the quantity ; it may then 
be cabled double cat-sup or dognnp. 

There are several advantages attending 
this concentration ; it will keep ranch better, 
and only half the quantity be required ; so 
you can flavor sauce, &c. without thinning 
It: neither is this an extravagant way c^ 
making it, for merely the aoueous part is 
evaporated ; skim it well, and pour it into a 
elesoi dry jar, or jug; cover it close, and let 
it stand in a cool pkoe till next day; then 
pour it off as gently as possible (so as not to 
disturb the settlings at the bottom of the 
juff,) througl) a tamis, or thick flannel bag, 
till it is peraclly clear; add a table-spoon- 
fid of good bniKly to each pint of ketchup, 
and let it stand as before ; a finesh sediment 
will be deposited, from which the ketchup is 
to be quietly poured off, and bottled in pints 
or half pints (which have been ^I'aslied with 
brandy or spirit): it is best to keep it in 
such quantities as are soon used. 

Take especial care that it is closely cork- 
ed, and sealed down, or dipped in bottle oe- 



If kept in a cool, dry place, it may be 
-preserved for a long time; but if it be liadly 
oorked, and kept in a damp place, it will 
soon spoil. 

Examine it frofki time to time, by plac- 
ing a strong light behind the neck of the 
bottle, and if any pellicle appears about it, 
boil it up again with a few peppercorns. 

MUSHROOMS TO PICKLE. Cut 
off the stalks, and wash clean, in cold wa- 
ter, some small button mushrooms ; rub them | 
with a bit of flannel, then throw them into . 
Iresh wat^*, and when perfectly clean, put | 
them into a saucepan with fl«sh cold water, 
and let them boil eight or ten minutes ; strain , 
off the water, lay them into the folds of a ^ 
cloth. Qoil, in a quart of vinegar, a quarter I 
of an ounce of pepper, the same of allspice, | 
and two or three mades of mace, and a tt»- I 
ifxionful of salt ; put the mushrooms into a ' 
jar, and when the vinegar is cold, pour it, ' 
with the spices, over them. 

MUSHROOMS TO STEW. For a 
good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock, 
season it widi salt, pepper, and a little lemon 
pickle, thicken it with a bit of butter rolled 
m flour; cleanse and peel the mushrooms, 
sprinkle them with a very little salt, boil 
them for three or four minutes, put them into 
the grav;^ when it is hot, and stew them for 
fifteen minuteB. 



MUSTARD. Mix (by degrees, by rtSr 
bing tosedier in a mortar) the best floar of 
mustard, with vin^;ar, white wine, or cold 
water, in which scraped horc^radisb has 
been boiled; nib it well togetfaef for at least 
ten minutes, till it is perfectly smoodi; H 
will keep in a stone jar cloeely 8t«^ped, for a 
fortnight : only put as much into the maatard- 
pot as will be used in a day or two. 06s. — 
Mustard is the best of all the stitnobtntathat 
are employed to give er.eray to the dieeedve 
organs. Some opulent epicures mix it with 
S^rry or Madeira wine, or distilled or fla- 
vored vinegar, instead of horeeradisfa water. 
The Frendi flavor their mustard with Cham- 
paigne and other wines, or with vinegar fla- 
vored with capers, anchovies, tarragon y«lder, 
basil, bumet, garlic, eschalot, or odery, 
virarming it with cayenne, or the irariooi 
spices; sweet, savory, fine herbs, truflfe^ 
ketchup, &c. &c., and seem to ccMuider 
mustmtl merely as a vehicle of flavors. 

MUSTARD IN A MINUTE. Mix 

very graduallv, and rub together in a mortar, 
an ounce of floor of mustard, with three ta- 
ble^poonfuls of milk (cream is better), half 
a tea-«poooful of salt, and the same of m^ar ; 
rub them well together till quite smootli. 
Ob». — Mustard made in this miraier ia not 
at all bitter, and is therefore instantly ready 
for the table. 

MUTTON. (l)11ie pipe that ronsakN^ 
the bone of the inside of a chine c^ mnttoa 
ought to be taken away; and if it is to be 
kept any length of time, the part ckise round 
the tail should be rubbed with salt, previooply 
cutting out the kernel. 

It is best for the butcher to take out the 
kernel in the fot on tlie thick part of the k^, 
as tliat is the part most likely to become 
tainted. The chine and rib-bones shoakl be 
wiped every day; and the bloody part of die 
neck be cot off, in order to preserve it. The 
brisket changes fii-^t in the breast ; iheretomy 
if it is to be kept, it is best, sliould the 
weather be hot, to rob it with a little Halt. 

When intended for roasting, it ^lould bang 
as long as it will keep, the hind quarter 
particularly; but not so bug as to becuuie 
taints. 

Mutton for boiling onsht not to bans 
long, as it will prevent its looking of a guod 
color. 

The greatest care should be taken to ptf«- 
serve, by paper, the fot of what is roasted. 

MUTTON. (2) As beef requires a bi^e, 
sound fire, mutton must have a bridt and 
sharp one. If you wish to have mutton 
tender, it should be hung ahnoet aa long im 
it will keep; and then (pod eigltt4oodi, t, «, 



MOT 



119 



MUT 



Ibar yean old mutton, is as good eating as 



The leSa haunch, and saddle will be the 
better for being hung up in a cool airy place 
fir four or five days at least ; in tempeiate 
WBtttber, a week ; in cold weather, ten days. 

A. JLegf of eiffbt pounds, will take about 
two hours: let itoe well basted, and frothed. 

A Chine or Saddle, (t. «. the two loins) 
ef ten or eleven pounds, two hours and a 
half: it is the business of the butcher to take 
off the skin and skewer it on again, to defend 
die meat firom extreme heat, and preserve its 
Mcculeooe ; if this is neglected, tie a sheet 
of paper over it (baste tab strings you tie it 
on with directly, or they will bivn) : about a 
quaner of an hour before you think it will 
be done, take off the skin or paper, that it 
may get a pale brown cobr, then baste it and 
floor it lightly to froth it. N. B. Desire 
the butcbor to cut off the flaps and the tail 
and chump end, and trim away evei^ part 
that has not indisputable pretrasions to be 
eaten. Thb will reduce a saddle of eleven 
pounds weight to about six or seven pounds. 

A. SkauTdeTj of seven pounds, an hour and 
a half. Put the spit in close to the shank- 
booe, and run it along the blade4xHie. 
N. B. The blade-bone is a ^vorite luncheon 
or suppa* relish, scored, peppered and salt- 
ed, and broiled, or done in a Dutch oven. 

A LaiUy oi mutton, from an hour and a 
half to an hour and three-quarters. The 
Bkost ek^iaut way of carving this, is to cut it 
lengthwise, as you do a saddle. N. B. Spit 
it on a skewer or krk spit, and tie iliat on 
the common spit, and do not spoil the meat 
by running tlie spit throogii the prime part 
of it. 

A Neck, about the same time as a loin. 
It must be carefijilv jointed, or it is very 
difficult to carve. The neck and breast are, 
in small families, commonly roasted together ; 
the co(^ will then crack tlie bones across the 
middle befive they are put down to roast: if 
this is not done carefully, they are very 
IroaUesome to carve. Tell the cook, when 
she takes it from the spit, to separate them 
before she sends them to table. N. B. Tlie 
best way to spit this is to run iron skewers 
■croas it, and put the spit between them. 
A Breatt, an hour and a quarter. 

MUTTON, BAKED WITH POTA- 
TOES. See Beef, 

MUTTON BREAST COLLARED. 
Bone it and take out all the Kfistles, 
make a (broemeat with crumbs ofbraad, 
ohopped parslejr, a little lemon thyme, and 
one anchovy minced; season with salt and 
while pq^per, rub the mutton over with an 
en b^ten up, cover it with the forcemeat, 
nu it firmly ; tie it with tape, and put it on 



in boiling water. Make a good mvy of 
the bones, two onions, a bunch of paralqr 
and lemon thyme, pepper and salt; strain 
and thicken it with a piece of butter mixed 
with floor. A little befijra serving, add a 
table-spoonfiil of vinegar and two of mush- 
room ketchup. Garnish with cut lempn or 
pickles. 

MUTTON, BREAST, ROASTED 
WITH WiMB. Skin and bone a breast of 
mutton, then roll it op in a collar like a 
breast of veal. Roast it, and baste it with 
half a pint of red wine ; when you have oiecl 
up all the wine, finish basting with butter. 
Have a little good gravy in readiness, and 
when the mutton is done, set it upright in a 
dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce 
tlie same as for venison, and send it up to 
table without any garnish. 

MUTTON BROTH. Cut a neck of 
mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome 
piece to be served up in the tureen ; put all 
into a stewpan with three quarts of cold beef 
stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed 
in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut 
in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and 
panley. When it boils, skim it clean, and 
when nearly done, take out the piece you in- 
tend lo serve in the tureen, and let the other 
pieces stew till tender; then have ready tur- 
nips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a 
cabbage, some parslev, all cut small, and 
some marigolds; wasli them, strain the li- 
quor off the meat, skim it flee from the fat, 
add it to the ingredienti with the piece of 
mutton intended for the ttveen, adding a lit- 
tle pearl barley. Season with sak, simmer 
all tcffether tiU done, and serve with toasted 
bread on a plate. 

MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops 
off a loin or die best end of a neck of mutton, 
pare off the fiit, dip them into a beaten egg, 
and strew over thorn grated bread, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and some finely minced 
parsley; fry them in a little hotter, and lay 
diem upon the back of a sieve to drain b^ 
fore the fire. Thicken about half a pint of 
gravy, add a table-spoonful of ketchup, and 
one of Port wine ; put the gravy into tiie dish, 
and by in the chops; garnish with iried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Cut a 
neck of mutton into neat chops, season them 
with salt and pepper, butter a dish, lay in 
tlie chops and pour over them a batter made 
of a quart of milk, four egp beaten up,«four 
lable-spoonfiils of flour, ami a little salt. An 
hour will bake them. 

MUTTON CHOPS MAINTENON. 



nut 



130 



M09 



Ctat ft Mek of iniitlon mto chopv; best vwdi 
Alt with a rotthig'piR. 9r\mt the toHc of 
a hard-boiled egg, and mix with it chopped 
■weet herbe, grated bread, nutmeg, sah, and 
pepper. CSorer the steaks with it, and put 
eecn into a pieoe of weH-bottered paper; 
broil fhem over a dear fire, tumiiig them of- 
ten. Serve them in the paper, or widi a 
browned gravy. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. -Out mto cut- 
lets a poimd and a half of the thick part of 
ajegof ttiiitton, and beat them; mix with 
grated bread crumbs, some pepper, sak, and 
finely chopped parslev, lemoo diyme, and 
sweet maijoram. Rob the cutlets with melt- 
ed butter, and cover them thickly with the 
prepared bread; fry them fi)r ten minutes in 
Duttar, then put them into a saucepan with 
some good gravy thickened widi flour and 
butter^ and simmer tbeiu f(Mr ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

MUTTON FILLET, STEWED. Pot 
B fillet of mutton or a piece of beef, weigh- 
ing about seven pounds, into a stewpan, with 
a carrot, a turnip, an onion- stuck with two 
or three cloves, and a pint of water. Put 
round the edge of the stewpan, a rim of 
ooaree paste, that the covo* may.be kept 
very close, and let it stew gently, three hours 
and a half; take oat the meat, dkim off the 
&t, strain and thicken the gravy, have ready 
aome boiled carrots and turnips cut to fancy, 
add them to the gravy, make all hot, aiiid 
^ serve witii a'garmsh of sliced gheritins. 

MUTTON- CUTLETS Breaded and 
Broiled. Trim and season your cutlets 
with pepper and salt, put them into some 
melted butter, and when they have imbibed 
a sufficient quantity of it, take them out, and 
cover them completely with bread crumbs; 
give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them 
over a clear fiie ; take care not to do the cut- 
lets too much, to bui'n the bread. 

MUTTON GRAVY FOR VENISON 
OR Hare. The best gravy for venison is 
timt made with the trimmings of the joint: 
if this is all used, and you have no undressed 
yenison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces ; 
broil it a little brown; then put it into a 
clean stewpan, with a quart of boiling wa- 
ter ; cover it close, and let it simmer gently 
for an hour: now uncover the stewpan, and 
let it reduce to three-quaiters of a pint ; pour 
it through a hair-sieve ; take the fet off, and 
tend it up in a boat. It is only to be sea- 
goD^ with a little salt, that it may not over- 
power Uie natui'al flavor of die meat. 

MUTTON, TO HASH. Cut tlie meat 
into thin sUoes,- trim oflfall the sinews, skin. 



gnstie, otc. ; pot m nothnig fiat wimt is 19 
oe eaten, lay Uiem on a plate, ready; pre* 
pare your sauce to warm it in, put in die 
meat, and let it simmer gently tiH it is thor- 
onghty warm: do not let it him, as tint w9. 
make die meat tong^ and hard, and it wifi 
be a harsh, instead of a hash. Sdieet lor 
vour hash those parts of the joint tfiat afv 
least doue. Hashing is a mode of Gookeiy 
by no means suited to delicate stcmieciiB: 
unless the meat, be considerably nnder-deiw 
the first time, a second dressing naost epoSi 
it, for what is done enotfgh U^ first tiaac» 
must be done too much theeectnid. 

MUTTON HAM, TO CURE. Got • 

hind quarter of good mutton into the sfaape'^ 
a ham, pound one ounce of saltpetft-e, witk 
one pound'Of coarse salt and a quarter of a 
pound of brown su^r, rub die ham well witb 
this mixture, taking care to stuff the hole of 
the shank well with salt and snsar, smd k4 
it lie a fortnight, rubbing it wc»l with th» 
pickle every two or three days ; then tahe 
it out and press it with a weight for mm 
day; smoke it with saw-dust for ten or fif- 
teen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. 
If the ham is to be boiled soon afler it has 
been smoked, soak it one hour, ami if it haa 
been smoked any length of time it wilt re- 
quire to be soaked several hours. Put it ob 
in cold water, and boil it gently two hours. 
It is eaten cold at breakfast, kineheon, er 
supper. A mutton ham is sometiaties cmnd 
with the above quantity of sak and sugar, 
with the addition of half an ounce of pepfier, 
a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one not* 
nx^. 

MUTTON HAUNCH, LIKE VENh 
SON. Take a fet haunch of large fine 
mutton, let it hang a week, then powMl 
one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamai- 
ca pepper, and rub them over the mutton, 
poiu- a bottle of Port wine over it, and let it 
remain in this five days, besting it firecfoent- 
ly every day with the liquor, take it out and 
haae it up four or five days more, or as long 
as the weather favors its keying; wipe it 
three or four times a day with a clean cloth. 
While it is roasting baste it with the liquor 
it was steeped in, adding a little more Poit 
wine; a quarter of an h»ur before taking it 
fiT>m the fire, baste it well with butter, and 
dredge flour over it to froth it up. Sem it 
with sauces as for venison. 



MUTTON HAUNCH. It 
be kept as lohg as you can poasibfy keep it 
swtet by the different modes ; and if now - 
sary, wash it with warm milk and mm t m, 
or viii^^, and when soing to be drested,^ 
carefiil to wash it well, to prevent the ohI- 
side firom having a bad flavor fi-um keepiag; 



IIUT 



121 



KUT 



fadbte joH put the haunch to the fine, Md it 
b a paste oC ooone flour, or strong paper; 
then set it a mood distance finom the mfe,and 
•How profXMtHMiable time for the paste; do 
not take it off, till about thirty-five or forty 
mimrtwB before sarviag the muttoo, and then 
faaete oontioually ; bnng the haunch nearer 
before taking off the paste, and froth it op 
ia the saoie manner as venison. For gravy, 
tdbe a pound and a half of bin of mutton, 
and simmer it in a pint <^ water till reduced 
to half, me no seasoning but salt: brown it 
with a little burnt sugar, and serve it up in 
the dish; but there should be a good deal of 

Cvy in the meat, for though long at the fire, 
covering and distance will prevent its 
raaflting out. Serve with currant<jelly sauce. 

MUTTON LG6. (1) If your leg 
of mutton is roasted, serve with onion ur 
cnmmt-JeUy sauce; if it is boiled, serve with 
caper-eauoe and v^etables. In roasting or 
boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually a&w- 
ed for each pound of meat^ 

MUTTON LEG. (2) Cut off the shank 
bone, and trim the knuckle, pot it into luke- 
warm water for ten Aiinules, wash it clean, 
eorer it with cold water,, and let it simmer 
very gently , and skim it carefiilly. A leg 
nf nine pounds will take two and a half or 
three hours, if you like it thoroughly done, 
especially in very cold weather. 

The Ut-bits with an epicure are the 
" knuckfe," tiie kernel, called the **pope*8 
eye,** and the ** geniUman*e** or ** cramp 
Iwne.^ 

When mutton is very large, you may di- 
vide it, and roaat the JUlei, i. e. the urge 
end, and boil the knuckle end; you may 
also cut some fine cutlets off the thick end 
of the leg, and *o have two or three good 
hot cniiiiers. 

The Hquor the mutton is hoUed in, you 
may convert into good soup in five minutes, 
aoa Sc(Ach barley broth. Thus managed, a 
leg of mutton is a most economical joint. 

MUTTON LEO STUFFED. Make 
a stuffing with a little beef-suet chopped, 
some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a Utile 
grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, 
and a few bread crumbs, mix all together 
with the yolk of an egg, pot this un<fer the 
akin in the thickest part of a lev of mutton 
under the flap; then roast it, and sm^e it to 
table with some good gravy in the dish. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED with 
Otstxrs. Make a forcemeat of beefsuet, 
chopped small, the yolks of hard boiled eggs, 
with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, 
» oysters, a doaen or fourteen. 



an cut fine, aome aak, pepper, grated m- 
meg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with 
rawegKV; put this forooneat under the skis 
in the ttiickest part of the leg of mutton, na- 
der the flap, and at the knuckle. Forsanoe, 
soiae oyster-liquor, a little red wine, an an- 
chovy, and some more oyrters slewed, and 
served under the mutton. 



MUTTON LOIN. Roast it; soma 
people think it eats much better if cut length- 
ways like a saddle. It may also be used 
for steaks, pies, or broth, oiil;^ taking care 
to cut off as much (at as 



11, only ta 
possilne. 



MUTTON LOIN, STEWED, 
and skin the k>in; stew it in a pint of 
water, turning it fiw|uendy; when the li- 
(|uor is half wasted, take out tlie k>in and 
strain it, and when cold take off the fot; 
make a rich higlily-seasoned gravy of the 
bones; strain ai^ mix it with me hquorthe 
bin was stewed in; add a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and some small mwhrooms; 
thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour; 
put in the mutton, and beat it thoroqghly; 
garnish with pickles. 

MUTTON NECK. (1) This joint is 
particularly useful, as so many dishes may 
DC made of it. The bone ought to be cut 
shoi-L 

The best end of the nepk may be boiled, 
and served with turnips; or it you think 
proper, it may be roasted, or (hessed^ ia 
steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. 

You may stew the scrags in broth ; or ia 
a littks water, with small onions, some pep- 
percorns, and a small quantity of rice, all 
served together. 

When you wish that a neck which is to 
be boiled should kwk particularly well, saw 
down the chine bone, strip the ribs half 
way down, and chop off the ends of the 
bones, about four inclies. 

To make the fat k)ok particularly white, 
the skin should not be taken off till it is 
boiled. 

The fiit belonging to the neck or loin of 
mutton, if chopped very fine, mokes a most 
excellent suet-pudding, or citist for a meal 
pie. 

MUTTCW NECK. (2) Put four or 
five pounds of the best end of a neck (that 
has been kept a few days) into as nnich cold 
soifk water as will cover it, and about two 
indies over; let it simmer vety sbwly for 
two houra: it will look most delicate if you 
do not take off the skin till it has been boil- 
ed. 

MUTTON PASTY, TO "AT as »ic«' 



MUX 



ii2 



MUT 



AS Venison. Take a fat loin of mutton, 
and let it hang for aeveral days, then bone il- 
Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub 
ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and pour over it one gla»3 of Port, 
and one glass of vinegai'. Let it lie for five 
days and five nights ; after which, wash and 
wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly 
with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. 
Lay it in vour dish, and to ten pounds put 
one pound of butter, spreading it over the 
meat. Put a crust round the edge of the 
dish, and cover with a thick crust, odier wise 
it will be over-done before the meat is soak- 
ed: it must be baked in a slow oven. 

Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with 
just suflficient water to cover them, and one 
glass of Port, a small quantity of pepper and 
BiJt ; by this means you will fiave a little rich 
g.avy to add to the pasty when drawn. 

Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, 
and a better flavor than salt, too great a 
quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar 
is quite as great a preservative. 

MUTTON POLPETTES. Take the 
lean of an^ joint of cold roasted mutton, pare 
off the skm, and mince tlie meat with a little 
grated bacon and calPs udder ; season witli 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and 
parsley, shred small; unite them together 
witli the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve 
or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egs, 
and bread them twice. Flatten these balls 
a little, and fry them in clarified butter; 
when done, draiu and place them on tlie 
dish. Serve them with tomato sauce or 



MUTTON, ROLLED. Bone a slioulder 
of mutton carefully, so as not to injure the 
skin, cut all the meat from the skin, mince 
it small, and season it highly with pepper, 
nutmegs and a clove, some parsley, lemon 
tliyme, sweet marjoram chopped, and a 
pounded onion, all well mixed, together witli 
a well-beaten yolk of an egg ; roU it up very 
tightly in the .^kin, tie it round, and bake it 
in an oven two or three hours, according to 
the size of die mutton. Make a gravy of the 
bones and parings, season with an onion, 

Scpper and salt, strain and thicken it with 
our and butter; add vine^, mushroom 
ketchup, soy, and lemon pickle, a table- 
■poonful of each, and a tea-cupful of Port 
wine; garnisli with forcemeat balls, made 
of grated bread, and part of tlie mince. 

MUTTON, COLD shoulder broil- 
ed. A cold shoulder of roast mutton having 
only a little meat upon tlie blade bone, may 
be scored, sprinkled with |>epper and salt, 
then broiled and served witn caper sauce 



poured over it, or melted butter, in whkh 
should be mixed of mu^room ketchup, lenion 
pickle, and Plarvey sauce, a table-spoonful 
each. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, BAKED. 
Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked 
bacon, put it into an earthen stewpan pro- 
portioned to the size of the joint of meat, 
wid) two or three sliced onions, a parsnip 
and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two 
cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil ; add 
about a quarter of a pint of water or stock 
(stock is tlie best), some salt and pepper; 
put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an 
oven. When the meat is done, strain the 
sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing 
the vegetables so as to make a thickening fur 
your sauce: serve the sauce with the meat. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEWED. 
(1) Bone a shoulder of mutton with a 
sharp knife, and fill the space with the fol- 
lowing stuffing: — grated bread, minced suet, 
peursley, pepper, salt, and nutm^; bind 
witli the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Sew or fasten it witli small skewers; brown 
it in a filing-pan with a bit of butter. Break 
the bone, put it into a saucepan, with some 
water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch 
of parhley; let it stew till the strength be 
extracted ; strain, and tliicken it with butter 
rolled in flour ; put it, with the mutton, and 
a glass of Port wme, into tbesaucepan ; cover 
it closelv, and let it stew gently for two 
hours. Before serving, add two tabie-spoon- 
fiils of mushroom ketchup. Garnish with 
pickles. 

MUTTON SHOULDER, STEW- 
ED. (2) Bone and flatten a shoukier 
of mutton, sprinkle over it pepper and 
salt, roll it up tightly, bind it witli tape, and 
put it into a stewpan that will just bold it, 
pour over it a well-seasoned gravy made with 
the bones, cover the pan cl^ly, and let it 
stew till tender; before serving, take off the 
tape, thicken the gravy, and garnish with 
cut pickles. 

MUrrON STEAKS, BROn-ED. Oit 
some mutton steaks from the loin, about 
half an inch thick, take off the skin, and part 
of the (at. As soon as the gridiron is hot, 
rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks 
(place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn 
the steaks frequendy ; when they are done, 
put them into a hot dish, rub them with 
a little butter; slice a shallot very thin into 
a spQonfiil of water, and pour it on them; 
add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped 
horse-radish, and pickws, and send them up 
hot to tabfe. 



NOU 



123 



OAT 



N. 



NAPLES CURP. Put into a cjuart of 
new milk a stick of cinnamooy boil it a few 
mioutes, take oiU the cinnamon, and stir in 
eight well-beaten ^gs, and a table-spoonful 
€)i white wine ; wIku it boils again, strain 
it through a sieve; beat the curd in a basin, 
tc^ther with about half an ounce of butter, 
two table-epoonfuls of orange-flower water, 
and pound^ sugar sufficient to sweeten it. 
Put It into a m^d (or two hours before it 
is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and 
cream, may be mixed together, and poured 
round the curd ; or it may be served in a 
sauce ture&i. 

NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. As soon 
as the blossoms are off, gatlier the little 
knobs; put them into cold water with some 
sah; shiH them once a day for three suc- 
oessive days; make a cold pickle of white 
wine viD^[ar, a little white wine, simllot, 
pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, out in quar- 
ters, and hoi^se-radish ; and put your nastur- 
timn buds into this pickle> 

NEAT'S TONGUE Fresh, in a 
Plain Way. Lard a toi^ .o. with tolera- 
blensized iardons, and boil it in broth, or in 
water, with a few onions and roots; when 
it is done, peel it, and serve it with broth, 
sprinkling it over with a little pepper and 
salt; it is also used without larding, and 
being boiled fresh in this manner, is consid- 
ered very good for mince^pie meat. 

NEAT'S TONGUE, Roasted, a la 
FRANtAiSE. Boil a neat's tongue, and 
blanch it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a 
hole in the under |)art, and take out the 
mesftt, mince it with two or tluee hard eggs, 
an apple, beef-suet, and bacon ; season with 
salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred 
vei'y fine; stuff the tongue with lliis force- 
meat; then cover the end with a veal caul, 
lard it witn bacon, and roast it; serve witli 
a sauce made of ^vy, butter, and the juice 
of oranges, garnish the dish with sliced lem- 
on-peel and barberries. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them 
well, cut each into five slips, which place in 
a gentle oven to dry ; let them be all equally 
colored of a clear yellow ; in the meantime, 
put three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, stir- 
ring with a wooden spoon until completely 
dissolved ; then take the almonds out of the 
oven, and whilst hot tlirow them into the li- 
c|uid sugar; mix them together well. Have 
roady H mould well oiled, of any shape you 



think proper, in the interior of which phwe 
the slips of almonds, by means of lemon-juioe, 
when the whole is covered, mnove the mould 
carefiilly, and serve the Nougat. 

NOYAU. <1) Peaches and nectarine*, 
in equal quantities, are to be bruised, die 
stones broken, and the kernels bhmched and 
bruised ; they are then to be put into a jar 
in layers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and 
one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until 
the jar is full; as much white brandy is 
then to be added as the jar willjiold; and 
when it has stood fer five or six months, it 
is to be filtered and bottled for use. 

NOYAU. (2) One pound of bitter al- 
monds, bbnclied, is to be steeped three 
moDths in four quarts of large-still proof 
whisky, or pale brandy, four pounds or loaf 
sugar are then to be clarified and added to 
tlie strained or filtered spirits, together with 
half a pint of pure honey. It is sometimes 
colored with a little cochineal; and may 
also be made, allowing three parts of sweet, 
and one of bitter almonds. 

NOYAU. (3) The rinds of three lai^ 
lemons, lialf a fxiund of pounded loaf sugar, 
one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, ara to be mixed into i quart of the 
best Hollands gin, three table-spoonfiib <^ 
boiling milk being added. It is to be pot 
into a bottle or jar, and shaken every day 
for three weeks, and then filtered through 
chamois leatlier or bk>tting paper, when it 
will be fit for use. 



OAT CAKES— are made in the same 
manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal in- 
stead of fiour, and three gallons of water in- 
stead of two: puU the dou^h into pieces, 
mil and finish the cakes as du-ected for muf- 
fins. When wanted, pull the edges apait, 
toast tliem nicely on both sides, and then 
open them completely; lay in small pieces 
of butter, until you have as much as you may 
want; close them again, set them before 
the fire, and cut each in halves or quarters. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Boil some 
water in a saucepan with a little salt, and 
stir oatmeal into it with a thevil ; when of 
a proper thickness, let it boil for four or 
five minutes, stirring it all die time ; then 
pour it into a dish, and serve with it cream 
or milk. It is sometimes eaten with porter 
and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with 
milk Instead of water, less meal is requisite, 
and it is tlien eaten witli cold milk. 



0H£ 



124 



Oil£ 



OLiVt: ROYALS. BoH one pound of 
potatoes, and when nearly cold rub tbem 
^ctkcdy sraooth with four ounoei of flour 
and one ounce of butter, and knead it to- 
fether till it become a paste; roil it out 
about a quarter of an inch ihick, cut it into 
rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of 
cold roasted ineat cut into thin small bits, 
and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a 
veiy small bit of butter over it, wet the 
edms, and close the paste in the form of a 
half circle. Fry them in boiling fresh drip- 
ping of a light brown cobr ; lay them be- 
fore the lire, on the back of a sieve, to drain. 
Serve them with or without grav7 in tiie 
dish. For a change, mince tm meat, and 
season it as before directed. The potatoes 
should be very mealy. ^ 

OLIVES. Tliere are three sorts, the 
Italian, Spanish, and French; they may 
be liad of various sizes and flavors, some 
prefer one sort, and some another. 

The fine salad oil is made from this fruit, 
for which purpose they are gathered ripe; 
for pickling thi^ are gathered when only 
half ripe, at the ktter end (^ June; th^ are 
put uitQ fresh water to soak for a couple of 
days ; after this tli^ are thrown into lime- 
water, in which some pearl-ashes liave been 
dissolved ; ir this liquor they lie for six and 
thiity bout's ; they ai-e then put into water 
whidt has had bayHsalt dissolved in it; this 
is the last preparation, aifd they aie sent 
over to us in this liquor; they are naturally, 
as they gruw on the tree, extremely bitter, 
and therefore all these preparations are nec- 
essary to bring them tq their fine flavor. To 
some olives ttwy add a small quantity of es- 
sence of spices, which is an oil drawn from 
cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, coriander, and 
sweet feunel-tfee<l distilled together for that 
purpose; twehe diops aie suflicient ftir a 
Lukihel of olives; some prefer tiiem flavored 
with tills essence. 

OMELETS ARD VARIOUS WAys 
OF DRESSING Eggs. There is no dish 
which may be considered as coming under 
the denomination of a made dish of the sec? 
ond order, whicli is so generally eaten, if 
good, as an omelet; and no one is so often 
badly dressed : it is a ver^ faithful assistant 
in the construction of a dinner. 

When you are taken by surprise, and wish 
to make an appearance beyond what is pro- 
vided for the every-day dinner, a little port- 
able soup melted down, and some zest and a 
few vegetables, will make a good broth ; a 
pot of stewed veal warmed up; an omelet; 
and some apple or lemon fritters, can all be 
got ready at ten minutes notice, and with 
the original foundation of a leg of mutton, or 
a piece of beef, wiU make up a very good 



dinner when oonpsny mexpectedly wiiwu^ 
in the country. 

The great merit of an omelet b, tlwt il 
should not be grea^, burnt, nor too mudi 
done: if too much of the white of the egn is 
left in, no ait can lyevent its being hanl, if 
it is done: to dress the omekt, the fir» 
shouU not be too hot, as it is an object to 
have the whole substance heated, withoot 
much browning the outside. 

One of the great eirors in cocking an om- 
elet is, that it u too thin; consequently, in- 
stead of feeling foil and moist in the oioiith, 
the substance presented is little better than 
a piece of fried leather: to get the omeiel 
thick is one of the great objeclB. With re- 
spect to the ft&vors to be mtrodoced, these 
are infinite; that which is meet comnon^ 
however, is tlie bestj viz. finely chopped 
parsley, and chives or onions, or eschalots: 
however, one made of a mixture of tarragon, 
chervil, and parsley, is a very delicate vm- 



the French: lliis should be cut in dice, and 
should be dressed (boiled) before it is added ; 
in the same manner, ham and ancbuvies, 
slired smull, or tongue, wiB make a ver> 
delicately f:i\oicd dish. 

The obJLJtio!) to an omelet is, diat it la 
too rich, which makes it advisable to «at 
but a small quantity. An addition of auiae 
finely mashed potatoes, about two tabte- 
spoonfuls, to an o^let of six eggs, will 
much lighten it. 

Omelets ai-e often served with rich gra- 
vy ; but, as a general principle, no substance 
which tms been fi ied should be served in gra- 
vy, but accompanied by it, or what oneht to 
eat dry and crisp, becomes soddened and 
flat. 

In the compounding the gravy, great care 
sliould be taken tliat tiie flavor does not over- 
come tliat of tlie omelet, a thing too little 
attended to: a fine gravy, with a flavoring 
of sweet herbs and onions, we tliiiik the best ; 
some add a few drops of tarragon vinegar; 
but this is to he done only with great car6: 
gravies to omelets are in general thicken- 
ed : this should never be done with floor ; 
potato starch, or arrow-root, is the beat. 

Omelets should be fried in a small fify- 
ing-pan made for that pul-pose, with a snoall 
quantity of butter. The omelet's great 
merit is to be thick, so as not to taste of di» 
outside ; therefore use only half the number 
of whites that you do yolks of egjgs: every 
cate must be taken in fi7ing, even at the 
risk of not having it quite set in the middle: 
an omelet, which has ao much vocu» 
abroad, is here, in general, a thin doubnd- 
up piece of leather, and harder than mA 
Watber sometimes. The fact is, that as mubh 



OME 



126 



Olfl 



nay be 
The 



eve MOBt be botowed ob tbe frying* as 
■bould be taken in poacbiqs an egg. A 
aahmander b Deoeasary to tncMe woo will 
hne Che top brown; bat the kitchen ahovel 
r be substituled for it. 

ibfkiwia^ receipt is tbe basis of all 
smeleta, <^ which ^^ou may make an end- 
less variety, br takmg, instead of the par»* 
ley and esdnJot, a portion of sweet herbs, 
or any of the articles osed for making foroe- 
■eats, or any of the forcemeats. 

OaaeleCB are called by the name of what 
is added to flavor them: a ham or tongue 
onelet; ao anchovy, or veal kidney ome- 
let, &c.: these are prepared exactfy in the 
lame wav as in the firat receipt, leaving oat 
die parsk^ and eschalot, and mincios the 
ham or kicioey very fine, &c., and adding 
that in the place of them, and then pour over 
them all scMrts of thickened gravies, sanoes. 
Ice. 

OMELET. (1) Five or sa cf^gs will 
make a good-sized omelet; break them 
into a basin, and faeai them well with a fork ; 
and add a salt-spoonful of salt; have ready 
chopped two drachms of onioo, or three 
drachms of parsley, a good elove of eschalot 
minced very fine ; beat it well up with the 
eggs; then' take foar ounces erf* freeh butter, 
and break half of it into large bits, and put 
it into the omelet, and the odier half into 
a voy clean frying-pan ; when it is meked, 
poor in the omelet, and stir it with a spoon 
till it begins to set, then turn it up all round 
tlie edges, and when it is of a nice brown it 
is done: tbe safest way to take it out is to 
put a plate on tbe omelet, and turn the pan 
apsides-down: serve it on a hot dish; it 
should never be done till just wanted. If 
maigre, grated cheese, shrimps, or oysteiv. 
If oysters, boil them four minutes, and take 
away the beard and gristly pail ; th^ may 
either be put in whole, or cut in bit9. 

OMELET. (2) Beard and parboil twelve 
or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few 
peppercorns, strain and chop them; beat 
wen six eggs; parboil and mince a little 
parsley ; mix all together, and season with a 
little nutmeg, salt, and a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketchup; fry it lightly in three 
ounces of butter, and hold it for a minute or 
two before the fire. 

OMELET. (3) Beat well and strain six 
eggs ; add them to three ounces of butter 
mide hot ; mix in some grated ham, pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives and 
parsley. Fry it of a light brown color. 

OMELET. (4) Take as many e^ as 
yoa think proper (according lo the size of 
your omel^) break them into a basin with 
11* 



sonm aak and chopped parsley; then bnC 
them well, and season them aceording to 
caste, then have ready some onioo cho p ped 
small ; put some butler into a ftying-pao,and 
when it is hot (but not lo bvn) pot in vooi 
chopped onion, giving tliem two or three 
tnms; then add your eggs to it, and liy the 
whale of a nice brown, you must only try 
one side. When done, turn it into a diih, 
the firied side uppenoost, and serve. 

OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or 
three thin omelets, adding a little sweet ba- 
sil to the usual ingredients; cut them inio 
small pieces and roll them into the form of 
olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or 
enclose them m puff paste; fiy, and serve 
them with firied parsley. 

OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF 
VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs, add a 
liule salt, and part of a cold roasted kidney 
of veal, finely minced ; season with pepper, 
and a little more salt ; melt in a frving-pan 
one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in 
the omelet ; fry it gently, and keep the mid- 
dle part moist ; when done, roll it equally 
upon a knife, and serve it very hot.. 

OMELET AU NATUREL. Bmik 
eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, 
salt, and a wioonful of cold water, beat tnera 
op with a whisk; in the meantime put some 
fiiesh butter into a fi7in^-pan, when it is quite 
melted and nearly boiling, p«it in die egffs, 
&c. with a skimmer; as it is frying, take 
up the edges, that they ma^ be properly 
done; wb^ cooked, double it; serve ver>' 
hot. 

ONIONS . The imall round silver button 
onions, about as b^ as a nutmeg, make a 
very nice pickle. Take off their top coats, 
have ready a stewpan, three parts fiHed with 
boiling water, into which put as many on- 
ions as will cover the top: as soon as tiicy 
look clear, immediately take them up with 
a spoon fiill of holes, and lay them on a cl'it!) 
three times folded, and cover diem witii 
another till you have ready as many as ^oii 
wish: when they are quite dry, put them into 

S's, and cover them with hot pickle, made 
infusing an ounce of horseradish, same of 
spice, and same of bbck pepper, and same 
of salt, in a quart of best white-wine vinegar, 
in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of the 
fire for three days, keeping it well closed; 
when cold, banff them down ti|;fat, and cover 
them with bladder wetted with the pickle 
and leather. 

ONIONS STEWED. The large Pop- 
tngal onions are the best: take off me top- 
coats of half a dozen of these (taking care 



051 



136 



OMA 



Mt to eot off the tofM or teib too near, or 
the onioro wiU so to pieces), and pot them 
into • Btewpan broad enough to hold them 
without laying them atop of one another, 
and just cover them with good broth. Put 
them over a slow fire, and let them simmer 
about two hours; when you dish them, turn 
them upside down, and pour the sauce over. 



I 

L 



ONIONS TO PICKLE. Peel the 
till they look white; boil some strong sah 
aiid water, and pour h over them; let them 
stand in tliis twenty-fiHU* hours, keep the 
vessel cfesely covereid to retain the steam: 
after that time wipe the onions quite dry, 
and when they are cold, pour boiling vin^jar, 
with ginger and white pef^yer over them. 
Take care the vinegar always covers the 
onions. 

ONION SAUCE, YOUNG. Peel a 
pint of button onions, and put them in water 
till you want to put them on to boil; put 
them into a stevt^pan, with a quart of cold 
water; let them boil till tender; they will 
take (aiMxnrding to their sixe and age) firom 
half an hour to an hour. 

ONION SAUCE. Thoiie who like the 
fiiU flavor of onions only cut oA* the strings 
and tops (without peeling off any of tlie 
skins), put them into salt and water, and let 
them lie an hour; then w:ish.them, put them 
into a kettle with plenty of water, and boil 
them till they are tender: now ^in them, 
pass them through a colander, and mix a 
little melted butter with them. N. B. Some 
mis the pulp of apples, or turnips, with the 
onions, others ad4 mustard to them. 

ONIONS, TO PREPARE FOR SEA- 
SONIN6. Peel and mince three or four 
onions, put tliera into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle cold wator. Let them boil till quite 
tender, and then pulp them with the liquor 
through a hair sieve, when it may be mixed 
with any made dishes or sauces. 

ONIONS YOUNG, TO PICKLE. 
Choose some of the small silver cmions, put 
them on in cold wato-, and when it is scald- 
ing hot, take them out with an egg slice; 
peel off the skins till they look white and 
clear ; lay them into the folds of a cloth. 
Boil, in a quart of vinegar, half an ounce of 
pepper, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, the 
same of garln, and. one sliced nutmeg; pot 
the ouioM into a jar, and poor over them 
the boiling vinegar and spices. When cok), 
tie leather over the jar. 

ONIONS, PLAIN BOILED. Peel 
Mn, and let them lie an hour in ooM water, 
[A liiem on m boiling milk and water; 



boil them till tender, and aer«e 
melted butter poured over them. 



ONIONS, ROAST. 

the skins on in a Dotdi ovite, that Aity mnar 
tNTown equally. They are eaten with ooid 
fi'esh butter, pepper, and salt* 



ONIONS STEWED. (!) Take* 
of good-sited onions, ped and put them ea 
in the following sauce :t*A pint of veal fltock, 
a l»t of butter n>Ued in Sknt, a Kttfe pefiper, 
and salt. Stew them gently for an hoar, 
and, just before serving, mix in three tabl^* 
spcxmfub of cream. Tq stew them in n 
brown sance, take the same quaatitj of good 
eravy." In a stewpaa brown, of a light co- 
k>r, a little butter and flour, add the gravy 
and onions, with a little pepper and salt, ana 
stew them gently one hour. 

ONIONS STEWED. (2) Feel five or 
six large oniond, put them into a Dutch oven 
or cbe<»e-toaster to roast, turn them frequent- 
ly, and when they are well browned, pot 
diem into a saucepan, witli a bone of d iiaoud 
or undressed meat, a slice of baoon, a littla 
water, and some pepper. Cover the pan 
clusely* and stew them till tender. Take 
out the bone and the baoon; thidten the 
sauce with a bit of buttor rolled in flour. 

ORANGE BISCUITS. Take the grat. 
ed rind of an orange, six fresh eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of flour, and three-qiiar> 
ters of a pound (^powder sugar; put these 
into a m<Htar, beat them to a paste, which 
put into cases, and bake like other bis- 
cuits. 

ORANGE CHEESECAKES. To be 
made in the same way, as lemon cheee^* 
cakes. 

ORANGE CREAM, frothed. Make 
a pint of cream very swe^, put it over the 
fire, 'let it just boil, put the juice of a large 
orange into a small deep glass, having pre- 
vionriy steeped a bit of orange-peel for a 
shiirt time in the juice, when the cream is 
almost ooki, fjow it out of a tea-pot opon 
the juice, holding it as high as poeeible. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. Having boiled 
the rind of a Seville orange very ten^, beat 
it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it the 
juice of a Seville orange, a spoonftd of the 
best brandy, four ounces a( loafengar, and 
the yolks of four eggs; beat them all well 
together ten minutes, thai pour in b^ depneas 
a pint of boiling cream; keep beating it t^ 
cold ; put it into oinlard flames. S^ them 
in an earthen dish d hot water ; let them 
stand till they are set, then stick pw i sM ite d 



ORA 



1*7 



OVE 



«niig0*aronaifecfai|»,ootfietop. bany 
he Mmd hot or cold* 

ORANGE FOOL. Take tbe jaioe of 
bU bemeo, a pint of 
Ta pound of flngar, a litde 
I and mitaieg. MixaU ivell togelh- 
or; atir it over a ikir fire till thick, tbenpul 
iaaamaU piece of batier, and keep ■ttmng 
it till ooU. 

ORANGE OINOEBSREAD. Sift two 
pHOHfe and a qnarter of fine floor, and add 
to H a pomd and thrae-quartera of traade, 
■iz ounoeB of candied orange-peel oat HBaH, 
three-qoartera of a pound of moiit imMr, one 
eoBoe of groond ginger, and one omoe of 
«lq>ioe: mek taan oil three-qaartera of a 
pouid of batter; mix the wbofe well togeth- 
er, and lay it bv for twelve boon; rul it 
oat with 9d little floor as peerible, .aboat 
balf an inch thick; cut it into pieoee three 
inches loi^ and two wide; mark them in 
ihe form of checkers with the back of a 
knife; put them on a baking-phte about a 
qpiafter of an inch apart; rab them over with 
a brush dipped in the yolk of an eg^ beat up 
with a tea-cupfiil c^ milk ; bake it in a cool 
oven about a (jjuarter of an hour: when done, 
waih them slightly over again, divide the 
pieces with a unife (as in baking they will 
ran together). 

ORANGE LIQUOR. To each orange, 
one quart of strong spirits, and one poinid 
and a qnarter of knf sugar are aHowea; six 
or eif^t cloves are to be stuck into each or- 
ange, which, with the spirits and sugar, is 
to be put into a iar. It m«t be cloeelycov- 
ered, and stirred occasionally in the course 
oftwomonths; it is then to be filtered through 
bk>tting paper, and bottled for use. 

LenKm liquor is made in the same way, 
rabstitutiag lemons for oranges. Instead of 
mixing the sugar with the otiber materiab in 
the jar, it may be made into a sirup, and 
added to the strained or filtered spirits. 
This, though more troublesome, will be found 
a better method. 

ORANGE OR LEMON.PEEL, TO 
■IX WITH STUFFINO. Peel a Seville or- 
ange, or lemon, very thin, taking off only the 
fine yelbw rind (without any of the white); 
pound it in a mortar with a bit of lump su- 
gar; rub it well with the peel; by degrees 
add a little of the forcemeat it is to be mixed 
with: wlien it is well groond and blended 
with this, mix it with the whole: there is 
no other way of incorporating it to w<dl. 
Feroeneats, fcc* are fiequently spoiled by 
the inenfficient mixii^ of die ingredients. 

ORANGE SIRUP, won Vvwem o& 
PuDDuio. Sm /uglie$. 



die peeCnnd 



ORANGEADE. (1)1 
poor some boiling « 

eovcr it closely; boil water and i. ^... 

thm sirap, and skim it; when all are coldy 
mix the juice, the infosion, and the eirnpy 
with as much water as will make a rich 
sherbet; stram it through a jeUy-bag. 

ORANGEADE. (2) This rafieshing 
beverage is made precisely in the smne man- 
ooly 1 



ORANGE PEEL RATAFIA. PM 

the peels of a doteo thick-skmned nrangw 
■Moagidkiooffaraiidy; dissohre two poarai 
ofsqgarin the juioedf the orangesyaddtoit 
the brandy, and having stirred diea togedi- 
er well, clooe dm vessd tkht^, and leare it 
foramoodi; Uien strain it off, and bottb iL 



ORGEAT. (1) 

pound of Jordan, and one ounce of bitter, 
almonds, in a marble mortar, with half a gill 
of oniige41ower water to keep them fiwm 
oiling; then mix with them one pint of 
rose and one pint of spring-water; rab it 
throqgh a tamis cbtb or bwn sieve, till the 
ahnonds are quite dry, which will reduce the 
quantitjr to about a quart : have ready three 
pints of chuified sugar or water, and boil it 
to a crack (which may be known by dipping 
your fingers into the sugar, and then into 
coldwaier; andif joufiiMthesugartocraok 
in moving yoar finger, it has boiM enough) ; 
put in the ahnonds; boil it one minuto, and 
when coM put it into small bottles ckise 
corked; a table<spoonfii] of which will be 
suffiejent for a tumbler of water: shake the 
bottle before using. If the orgeat is for 
present use, the almonds may be pounded as 
above, and mixed with one quart of water, 
one qovt of milk, a pint of capiUaire or 
clarified fugar, robbed through a tamis or 
fine sieve, amd put into decanters for we. 

ORGEAT. (2) A quarter of a pound 
of sweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter 
almonds, are tobe blanched, and thrown into 
cold wator, then beaten in a marble mortar, 
and moistened occasionally with a spoonfol 
of milk, to prevent their oiling; three pints 
of milk are then to be mixed graduallv with 
them, and after being sweetened, boiled, 
stirred till coM, and strained, a gbm of wmo 
or brandy is to be added. 

OVEN, DIRECTIONS FOR THE. 
Be very carefol to keep your oven clean, and 
that there are no remains of sugar or &t that 
may have ran over fit>m any thing that has 
been baking. Puff-pastes require a mode- 
rator hot oren, but not too hot, or it will 
spoil the Jfaapa and ten it over; tan<partB« 



oxc 



128 



079 



or Aott crust, requires a slower otcd ; pe- 
tits-bboux, one stHI slower; but for raised 
pies, let it be as hot as for puff-paste at first, 
and well closed, so that the pies may not fidl. 
Therefore, when you give a dinner where 
paste is necessary, endc»vor to make it in 
the morning; heat your oven fii*st for Uie 
puff-paste, which must be baked the first; 
then let the oven ^o gradually down, and 
bake your pastes m rotation, as the heat 
&Ds. Savoy biscuits require a ewA oven, 
and, b^ d^rees, raise the heat as the biscuits 
are baking. For souffles or light puddings, 
have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to hhve 
them ready by tlie time th^ are wanted, or 
th^ will foil. The greatest attention should 
also be paid in heating the oven for baking 
cakes, particularlv for those that are ku*ge. 
If not pretty quick, the batta* will not rise. 
Slioirid you fear its catching by being too 
quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its 
being burnt. If not bng enough lighted to 
have a body of heat, or if it has become 
slack, the cake will be heavy. To know 
when it is soaked, take a inpoad bladed 
knife that is very bri|[ht, and pkinge it into 
the centre ; draw it instantly out, and if the 
least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
diately in, and sliut up the oven. If the lieat 
was s.ufficieDt to raise, but not to soak, fresh 
fiiel must be quickly put in, and the cakes 
kept hot until tlie oven is fit to finish the 
soaking, but this must only be done in a case 
of great emergency; for those wlio are em- 
ployed ought to be particularly careful that 
no mistake occur from negligence. 

OX-CHEEK STEWED. Prepare this 
the day before it is to be eaten ; clean it, and 
put it into soft water just warm ; let it lie 
three or four hours, then put it into cold wa- 
ter, and let it soak all niglit ; next day wipe 
it clean, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
it with water ; skim it well whep it is com- 
in|r to a boil, then put two whole onions, 
stick two or three cloves into each, three 
Uimips quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, 
two bay-lea%'es, and twenty-four conis of all- 
spice, a head of celery, and a bundle of 
sweet-herbs, pepper, and salt; to these, 
those who are for a " liaut gout " may add 
cayenne and garlic, in such proportions as 
the palate that re(|uires them may desire. 
Let it stew gently till perfectly tender, t. e. 
about three hours; then take out tlie cheek, 
divide it into handsome pieces, fit to help at 
table ; skim, and sti-ain die gravy ; melt an 
ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan ; stir 
into it as much flour as it wiU take up; mix 
with it by degrees a pint and a half of the 
gravy; add to it a table-spoonful of basil, 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, or the like quan- 
tity of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or cav- 
iee, or Port wine, and give it a boil. 



OX CaEEK^ TO BOIL. Waabiciy 
clean, half a head ; let it lie in cokl water 
all night; break the bone in two, taking care 
net to break the fleshy Pat it on in a- pot 
of boiling water, and let it boU from two Ca 
three hours; take out the bone. Serve it 
with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. 
The liquor the head has been boiled in may 
be strained and made into Soots barley bn>thy 
or Scots kale. 

OX FEET JELLY^ Put a Uttfe hot 
water over the top of the stock, pour it aS, 
and wipe it dry with a clean clocb; put » 
quart cMf it into a saucepan with the beatea 
whites of five or six eggs, the juice of fiva 
lonons made very sweet with good browa 
sugar, a clove or two, and a Tittle cinB»> 
mon pounded;, let it boil twenty nahmtesy 
stirrbg it aH the time; take it off the 6to, 
and add a pint, or half a pint of whit* 
wine, and nm it tbrou^ a jelly-bag til 
clear. - 

OX-TAILS Sl^WED. Divide tfiem 
into joints; wash them; parboil them; set 
them on to stew in just water enough to 
cover them> — and dress them in the same 
manner as we have directed in Stewed GR>* 
lets, for which they are au excellent substi- 
tute. 

OYSTERS. Some piscivoixras gour- 
mands tlunk that oysters are not best when 
quite ket\i fixMn tlieir beds, and that thdr 
flavor is too brackish and harshyiand is mudi 
ameliorated by giving them a feed. 

To FITED oystera. — Cover then with 
clean water, with a pint of salt to about two 
gallons (nothing else, no oatmeal^ flour, nor 
any other trumpery); this will cleanse them 
from the mud and sand, &c. of the bed ; af- 
ter they have lain in it twelve hours, change 
it for fi'esh salt and water, and in twelve 
hours more they wiU be in prime order for 
the mouth, and remain so two or three days: 
at the time of high water you may see then 
op^ their shells, in expectation of receiving 
their usual food. This process of feeding 
oysters is only employed when a gresd many 
come up together. 

Common people are indiflferent about thn 
manner of openmg oysters, and the time of 
eating them after they are opened ; nothing, 
however, is more in^rtant in the enlight • 
ened eyes of the experienced oyster-eater. 

Those who wish to enjoy this dehciom 
restorative in its utmost perfection, mwt 
eat it die moment it is opened, with its ow i 
gravy in the under shell; if not eaten whi*e 
absolutely alive, its flavor and sphrit are lost 

Shell-fish have long held a high rank is 
the catalog of easily digestible and speed.* 
ly restorauve foods; of these the oystar cei*- 



oir» 



IM 



OYS 



Iwly deserrtt the bert clmrac>er, bat we 
lynk it has acquired not a Kttk more repo- 
taiioD for theee qualitiee than it deterres; a 
weB-dnesaed ctiop or ateak, will inrigorate 
tfae heart in a much higher ratio; to recruit 
the animal apirils, and support etrensth, 
there is nothing eqoal to animal food; wlien 
kent till properly tender, none will give, ao 
iitde bnooble to the digestive organ, and so 
aaich sdbataiilial excitement to the oonstita- 



OYSTER ATTELETO. OitintosmaU 
nieoeB a eweetbread and a slice or two of 
DBOon, beard some large oysters, and season 
all highly with chop^ pcunsley, shallot, a 
fittle Sivme, pepper and sak. 'Then fosten 
Ihem alternately upon wire skewers; pnt 
siAed bread crumbs o?er them, and broilor 
fiy them of a Hght brown color. Take them 
00 the skewers, and serve them with some 
rich gra^, to ^vhich add a littfe ketchup and 
lemon |HckIe. 

OYSTERS, BAKED. Grate a small 
loaf of stale bread. Batter a deep dish well, 
and cover the sides and bottom with bread 
crwnbs. Put in half the oysters with a lic- 
tfe inaoe and pepper. Cover them with 
enimbs and small bits of butter strewed over 
them. Then put in die remainder of the 
oysters- Seasdn them. Cover tliem as 
before with crumbs and butter. If the oys- 
ters are fresh pour in the liquor. If dicy 
are salt, substitute a little water. Bake it a 
very short time. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (1) Make a batter 
as for pancakes, seasoned with crated nut- 
Boeff, white pepper, and salt, and add some 
finely grated bread crumbs ; dip iu the oys- 
ters, and firy than of a light brown in beef 
dripping. 

Aiiotlier way is, to dip (hem into the white 
of an egg beat up, and rull diein in finely 
grated bread crumbs, fleasoned with grated 
ontmeg, pepper and salt, and fry tliem as 
directed. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (2) Thekrgest 
and finest oysters are to be chosen for this 
purpose ; simmer them in their own liquor 
for a couple of minutes, take them out and 
lay them on a doth to drain, beard them and 
then flour them, m and bread-crumb them, 
pot' them into boiling fot, and fry them a 
delicate brown. Ob*. — ^An elegant garnish 
for made dishes, stewed rump-steaks, boiled 
or fi-ied fish, &c. ; but they are too hard and 
dry to be eaten. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (S) For frying, 
cbboee the lar|^ and finest oysters. Beat 
wane yolks of eggs, and mbt with them grat- 



ed braad, and a ■nail c|aanaiy of bntn 
oudnB^ and maoe, and a little sah. Hav- 
ing stirred this batter well, dip joor op- 
tera into it, and fry them in nrd, tiH f&Bf 
are of a light brown oahe. Take care net 
to do them too much. Serve them up hoL 
For crated bread, some substitute cracken 
poooded to a jwwder, and mixed with yolk 
of egg- and spice. 

OYSTERS, TO KfiEP AND FAT- 
TEN. Put diem into water, and wash and 
dean them with a birdi broom ; laying them 
with the deep shdl downwards into a tab or 
broad platter, and then sprink le them o ver wilfa 
salt. The following day poor over them and 
fill the vessel with clean cold water, in whicfa 
they must remain an hour, then pour it olT 
again ; sprinkle them with salt, and let thb 
be repealed every day. This mediod will 
keep them good for a fortnight. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (1) Ttkm 
fine fresh o^ysters ; wash them in their own 
liquor; skim it; pound them in a marble 
mortar; to a pint of oysters add a pint of 
Sherry; boil them up, and add an ounce of 
salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and one 
of cayenne; let it just boil up again; tkim 
it, and rub it tfaroij^ a sieve, and whra coU, 
bottle it, cork it well, and seal it down. 

N. B. It is the best way to pound the salt 
and spices, &c. with the oysters. 

Ob». — ^This composition very agreeably 
hei^iens the flavor of white sauces, and 
white made-dishes; and if you add a glass 
of brandy to it, it will keep good for a consi- 
derable time kmger than oysters aie out of 



OYSTER KETCHUP. (2) .Boil one 
hundred oysters with their lk|uor, till the 
strength be extracted finom them ; strain them 
well, and add to the liquor an equal quanti- 
ty of wine, one Iwlf Port and the other 
Sherry, also a (|uarter of an ounce of mace, 
the same of white pepper and of allspice, a 
dradun or tea-spoonful of ginger, and six 
anchovies; boil all togedier about fifleeo 
minutes. Put into a jar twelve shallots, the 
ped of a lemon, and a piece of horse-i-adish 
cut small; pour upon them the boiling li- 
quor, and woen cold, bottle it, together with 
the spices, 

OYSTER LOAVES. Qit oflT the top 
of some small French dIIs, take out the 
crumb, and fry them brown and crisp with 
clarified butter, then fi^ some bread crumbs ; 
stew the requisite quantiw of oysters, beard- 
ed and cut, in two, in their liquor, with a 
little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned 
with grated lemon-peel, pounded maoe, pep- 
per, and salt; add a bit of butteri fill tbo 



OYS 



130 



OTS 



VoUa vrith the oysten, and serve them vrith 
the fried bread crumbB io the diah. 

OYSTER PATTIES, (i) Roll out puff 
paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares with a knife, sheet eight or ten patty 
pans, put upon each a bit of bread the size 
of half a walnut; roll out another layer of 
paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, 
wet the edge of the bottom paste, and put 
on the top, pare them round to the pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with the 
back of the knife, rub them lightly with yolk 
of egg, bake them in a hot oven about a 

Suarter of an hour: when done, take a thin 
lice off the top, then, with a small knife or 
spoon, take out the bread and the inside 
|xiste, leaving the. outside quite entire; then 
parboil two dozen of large oysters, strain 
them fi*om tlieir liquor, wash, beard, and cut 
them into four, put them into a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half 
a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon- 
peel, the oyster liquor, free from sedimeat, 
reduced by boiling to one half, some cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a tea-spoonful of lemon- 
juice ; stir it over a fire five minutes, and 
fill the patties. 

OYSTER PATTIES. (2) Make some 
rich puff paste, and bake it in very small tin 
patty-pans. When cool, turn them out upon 
a large uiah. Stew some large fresh oysters 
. with a few cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a 
little butter, and as much of the oyster liquor 
as will cover them. When they have stew- 
ed a little while, take them out of the pan, 
and set them away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell 
of puff-paste. 

OYSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine 
oysters, strain the liquor, and add them to 
it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fat of a 
loin of veal; season them with white pep- 
per, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel ; lay 
them on the bottom of a pie dish, put in the 
oysters and liquor, with a little more season- 
ing ; put over them the marrow of two bones. 
I^ay a border of puff paste round the edge of 
the dish; cover it with paste, and ba^e it 
neariy three-quarters of an hour. 

OYSTERS, PRESERVED. Open 
the oysters carefiiUy, so as not to cut them 
except iu dividing the gristle which attaches 
the shells; pat them into a mortar, and 
when you have got as many as you can con- 
veniently pound at once, add about two 
drachms of salt to a dozen oysters ; pound 
them, and rub them through tlie back of a 
hair sieve, and put them into a mortar again, 
yfiti^ as much flour (which has been pr^ 



viously thorougMy dried) as will make tbtsmt 
into a paste ; roll it out several tinaes, and, 
' ', flour it, and roll it out the thi^neas 



of a half-ax>wn, and divide it into piec 
about an inch square; lay than in a Hhitch 
oven, where they will dry so gently as ikH to 
get burnt: turn them every half hour, and 
when they begin to dry, crumble them ; they 
will take alxnit four hours to dry; then 
pound them fine^ sift them, and put them 
mto bottles and seal them over. 

N. B. Three dozen required seven and a 
half ounces of dried flour to make them into 
a paste which then weighed eleven ounoes; 
when dried and powdered, six and a quar- 
ter ounces. 

To make half a pint of sauce, put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan with three 
drachms of oyster powder, and six table- 
spoonfuls of milk ; set it on a slow fire ; stir 
it till it boils, and season it with salt. 

This powder, if made with pkanp. Juicy 
oysters, will abound with the navor <^ the 
&h ; and if closely corked, and kept in a 
dryplace, will remain good fer sometime. 

This extract is a welcome socoedaneuai 
while oysters are out of season, and in such 
inland parts as seldom have any, is a valua- 
ble addition to the list of fish sauces: it is 
equally ^[ood wiUi boiled fowl, or rump steak, 
and sprmkled on bread and butter makes a 
very good sandwich, and is especially wor- 
thy the notice of country housdkeep^s, and 
as a store sauce for the army and uavy. 

OYSTERS, TO PICKU:, Open then 
carefiilly, preserving all their liquor; put 
them into a saucepan over the fire, stin-ing 
them now and then, and when the liquor 
boils take tliem off, skim the sur&oe, and 
put the oysters into a bowl ; let the liquor 
settle, pour off t^e clear part, and put it on 
to boil^ with, to three hundred oysters, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, a little 
mace and allspice; boil it ten minutes, then 
add the oystei's, and let them boil two min- 
utes ; put them into a jar, and when tb^ 
are cold, tie a paper over it. 

OYSTER SAUCE, When your oys- 
ters are opened, take care of all the liquor 
and give them one boil in it. Then take 
the oysters out, and put to the liquor throe 
or four blades of mace. Add to it some 
melted butter, and some thick cream or 
rich milk. Put in your oysters and give 
them a boil. 

QYSTE:RS0UP. (l) Three pintsoflaige 
fresh oysters. Two table-spoonfiils of bat- 
ter, rolled in flour. A bunch of sweet htfbs. 
A quait of rich milk. Pepper to your taste. 
Take the liquor of three pints of oysten. 
Strain it, and seUt ou the fire^ Put into ijt. 



ors 



131 



ors 



' to yoar taste, two tabl&^poonfblt of 
> rolled in flour, and a bunch of sweet 
marjoram and other pot-heris. When it 
boili add a quart of rich milk— and as soon 
as it boib again take oat the herbs, and 
pot in the oysters just belbre you sand it to 
taUe. 



OYSTER SOUP. (2) Boil in water tlie 
crmnb oitwo twopenny reiki, with a few Uades 
ik maoe, a tea-spoonml of whole white pep- 
per, and four onions cut smaQ. Pick out 
the spioe, and rub the bread and onions 
dirobgfa a hair sieve, then add it to three 
quarts of well-seasoned strong veal stock. 
Rob down three ounces of butter, with a 
table-spoonfiil of flour, and mix it graduallv 
with l»if a pint of the soup, and ihen stir all 
well together. When it has boiled a short 
time, wM with the liquor half a hundred or 
more of fine oysters, and let the whole sim- 
mer for ten or fifteen minutes. If the soup 
is not quite sak enough with the liquor of 
the oysters, a little salt way be added. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (1) Put 
them, with their Kquor strained, two or three 
blades of mace, a few peppercorns, a little 
cayenne, and a piece of butter the size of a 
wahmt, kneaded with Bour, into a stewpan. 
Simmer them very gently for half an hour, 
by no means letting them boil ; pick out die 
mace and pepper ; have ready, nnely grated 
bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and 
salt; pot into the scallop-shelb, or into a 
dish, alternately a layer of bread-crumbs, 
then one of oysters and part of their liquor; 
and stick over the last layer of bread-crumbs 
a few bits (^ butter, and brown them in a 
Dutch oven for fifieen or twenty minutes. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (2) Take 
<^ tlie beards, stew them in their liquor 
strained, with a little mace, white pepper, 
and salt. Fry in a stewpan, with a bit of 
butter, some grated bread-crumbs, till of a 
nice brown; put them alternately with the 
oysters into a dish. 

OYSTERS SOAIX.OPED. (8) A 
good way to warm up any cold fish. Stew 
the oysters slowly in their own liquor for two 
or three minutes, take them out witli a spoon, 
beard them, and skim the liquor, put a bit 
of batter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
add as much fine bread-crumbs as will dry 
it up, then put to it the oyster liquor, and 
ffive it a boil up, put the oysters into seal- 
km-ebells that you have buttered, and strew- 
ea with bread-crumbs, then a layer of oys- 
ters, th^i of bread-crumbs, and then some 
more oystors; moisten it with the oyster li- 



lem with faread-cnnnbi, pm 
about half a doien little bits of batter on the 
top of each, and brown them in a DutrJi ov- 
en. Essence of anchovy, ketchup, caytane, 
grafted lemon-peel, maoe, and oUiier spioesy 
Sec. are added bv those who prefer pkioanoa 
fto the senuine flavor of the oyster. 

CoM fish may be re-dressed the same way 
N. B. Small scaUop-shells, or saooors that 
hokl about half a dosen oysters, are the most 
oonvenienL 

OYSTERS STEWED. (1) Stew with 
a quart of oysters, and their liquor strained, 
a glass of wiiito wine, one anchovy braisedt 
seasoned with white pepper, salt, a little 
maoe, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let all 
stew gently a quarter of an hour. Pick oat 
the bunch of herbs, and add a quarter of a 
poond of fi-esh butter kneaded m a brge ta- 
bleHqxxHifuI of flour, and stew them ten or 
twelve minutes. Serve them garnished with 
bread-sippets and cat lemon. They may be 
Stewed simply in their own lk|uor, seasoned 
with sak, pepper, and srated nutmeg, and 
thickened with oream, Ifoar, and butter. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (2) Open the 
oysters and strain the liquor. Put to them 
some grated stale bread, and a little pepper 
and nutmeg. Throw them into the liquor, 
and add a glass of white wine. Let them 
stew but a very short time, or the^ will be 
hard. Have ready some slices of lettered 
toast with tlie crust off. When the oysters 
are done, dip the toast in the liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep disli. Pour tlie oysters and 
liquor upon the toast and send them to ta- 
ble hot. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (3) Large oys- 
Xen will do for stewing, and by some are pre- 
feri-ed. Stew a coupte of dozen of these in 
their own liquor ; when they aiv oominff to a 
boil, skim well, tsike them up and beaixl them ; 
strain the liquor throush a tamis-sieve, and 
lay the oysters on a dim. Put an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
put to it as much flour as will dry it up, the 
liquor of the oystere, and three tablenspoon- 
fub of milk or cream, and a littb white pep- 
per and salt ; to this some cooks add a little 
ketchup, or finely-chopped parsley, grated 
lemon-peel, and juice; let it boil up for a 
couple of minutes, till it is smooth, then take 
it off the fire, put in the oysters, and let them 
get warm (dier^ must not themselves be boil- 
ed, or they will become hard) ; line the bot- 
tom and sides of a hash-dish with bread- 
sippets, and pour your oysters and sauce 
into it. 



I^AN 



192 



PAN 



P. 

PALATES AND SWEETBfiEAOB. 
Boil the pabtcs till the black skin can be 
eaiiily peeled off; parboil the swe^lxiaads 
with them; akin and cut the palates into 
pieces,' and if the sweetbreads arekuige, cut 
them in two the long wa^; dust them with 
floor, and firy them of a light brown, in but- 
tw; tliett stew them in rather more tlian a 
piat of the liquor in which they were boiled. 
feirown a piece of butter with flour; add 



it, with a little cayenne, salt, pepper, i 
lemon-peel, and nutm^, and a giass of white 
wine. A little before serving, stir in a 
spoonfiil of vinegar, or the squeeie of a lem- 



PANADA. (1) Boil some pieces of ataie 
bread in a sufficient quantity of ctM water 
to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemon- 
peel, and caraways; when the bread is quite 
eofl, press out all the water, and beat up the 
bread with a small piece of butto-, a little 
milk, and sugar to die taste; a Utile spioe 
may be added. 

PANADA. (2) Set a little water on 
the fire with a fflaas of white wine, some su- 
gar, a vei*y little nutm^, and lemon-peel ; 
meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread: the 
moment the water boils up, put in the bread- 
crumbs (without taking it off the fire), and 
let it boil as &st as it can. When of a 
prraer ocxisistence, that is, when just of a 
sufficient thickness to drink, take it off the 
fire. 

PANCAKES AND FRITTEBS. Break 
threie eggs in a basin ; beat them up with a 
little nutmeg and salt; then put to them four 
ounces and a half of flour, and a little milk ; 
beat it c^a smooth batter; then add by de- 
grees as much milk as will make it of the 
tludcnessofgQodoream: the flying-pan must 
be about the size of a podding plate, and 
very clean, or they will stick ; make it hot, 
and to each pancake pot in a bit of butter 
about as big as a walnut: when it is melted, 
poor in the batter to cover the bottom of the 
pan; make them the thickness of half a 
crown; fry them of a light brown on both 
sides. The above will do for apple flitters, 
by adding one spoonful more of flour; peel 
your apples, and cut them m thick slices; 
take out the core, dip them in the batter, 
mad firy them in hot hurd ; put them on a 
neve to drain ; dish them neatly, and grate 
pome loaf-sugar over them. 



FANCAKEa IN APPLES. Cktiwmm 

apples very smaiU stew tltem with a litlJb 
^ lemoR'peel, powided cio- 
sugar; maA tbQai,aad 
spnad it over pancakes; roll them um and 
serve with sifled loa^eugar over them. 

PANCAKES COMMON. With i 

ly half a poind of flour, mix five \ 
e^, and then add, by degrees, a quart of 
good milk; firy them in fl^ lara, and 
serve them with pooaded loaf-siigar strewed 
between each. 

PANCAKES FINE. To thrae table- 
spoonfiik of flour add six well-faeaten eg^p, 
diree taUe-«»oonfiils of white wine, M: 
ounces of melted butter nearly^cold, the saoa 
quantity of pounded loaf-sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a pint of cream; mix it well» 
beating the batter fiir sometime, and poor 
it thin over the pan. 

PANCAKE, RICE. Add to three weH- 
, beaten eggs a pint of new milk, three table- 
' spoanfiils of boiled rice, scHoe sugar, and a 
' little pounded cinnamon ; nux it all wdl to> 
' gether, and fry it lb butter; brown the op- 
per side 'for a minute before the fire ; servt 
it, cut into four, with pounded sugar strewed 



PANCAKE RISiSOLES. Mince fine- 
ly some cold veal, season it with grated km- 
on-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little 
lemon pickle ; warm it up with aone good 
gravy, and a small bit of butter rolled ia 
flour. Have ready a battor as for pancsJua, 
seasoned with a little salt and grated nutmeg. 
Fry a thin pancake, torn it, and put into 
the middle two table-spoonfiils c^ the minced 
veal; fold it in at each aide and at the ends 
in an oblong form, and firy than of a light 
brown color ; lay them upon the back ^ a 
sieve to drain before the fire. Four or six 
will make a dish. They are served as a 
comer or top dish, 

PANCAKES, SCOTCH. Mix widi 
sbc table-spoonfiils of flour a little cream, add 
the beaten yolks of six eggs, and then mix in 
a pint of cream, the grated peel of a snail 
lemon, a table-epoonml of pounded engar, 
and a little ratafia; when the batter is vcfy 
well beaten, and just before usiog, mix ia 
ri£ a 1 " 



the whites of the eggs beaten witl 
to a stiff froth. Put a little butter or htd 
into the fiying-pan, make it hot, pour it oat. 
and wipe the pan with a clean cloth; patii 
some butter or lard* and when.hoty poor in a 
tea-cupfiil of the batter; shake it^ said, whoi 
firm, prick it a little with a fiNrl^^ bat di^mk 
turn It; hold it before the fire a ipinate to 



PAR 



Serve them with 
pr Btx-ewed over them. 



133 



P AR 



pounded lottf-m- 



PANCAKE, THICK. Beat separate- 
ly the yolks and whites of two eggs ; mix 
with the ^oiks a tabie-spooniul und a half of 
floor, a IitUe sugar and white wine, half a 
I pint of cream or good milk ; add the whites, 
I and fiyit in a broad saucepan, with butter 
[ or clarified suet ; brown the upper side be- 
fore the fire; warm any sort of preserve, 
qNread it upon one half, and turn tne other 
over it, and strew upon it pounded loaf su- 
gar. 

PANNEQUETS. Pat into a pan, two 
Qonces of sifted flour, four of powder-sugar, 
the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoon- 
ful of dried orange-flowers; break up all 
these articles, and mix with them the yolks 
I often eggs, four large classes of double cream, 
' nod a pinch of salL xVash the bottom of a 
fiying-pao lightly with some warm clarified 
butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above 
pr^iaration, spread it over the pan, to make 
the paste as thin as possible; when tlie pan- 
ne^^ief becomes lightly colored, turn it over 
eareftilly, and do die other stde; then put it 
on a tiu~ plate, spread a little apricot marma- 
lade over, and having strewed crushed maca- 
roons on that, roll up the pannequet till about 
an inch in diameter; in tlie meantime put a 
•econd spoonful of your preparation into the 
pan, and proceed in the above manner, gar- 
nishing one pannequet whilst anotiier is 
cooking; taking cai-e, however, to set the 
pan over a gentle fire. When all are done, 
cut the pannequeU three inched in length, 
glaze, and dish them. 

PARSLEY. To preserve parsley throuffh 
the winter: — in May, June, or July, take 
fine fresh-gathered sprigs; pick, and wash 
diem clean ; set on a stewpan half full of wa- 
ter; put a little salt in it; boil, and skim it 
clean, and then put in the parsley, and let it 
boil for a couple of minutes ; take it out, and 
lay it on a sieve before the fire, that it may 
be dried as quick as possible ; put it by in a 
tin box, and keep it in a dry place: when 
yon want it, lay it in a basin, and cover it 
with warm water a few minutes before you 
we it. 

PARSLEY BUTTER. Wash some 
pareley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf 
oy leaf; put a tea-spoonfiil of salt into half 
ft pint of boiling water: boil the parsley 
about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; 
{ mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a 
palp. The delicacy and excellence of this 
degant and innocent relish depends u;K>n the 
parsley being minced verfr fine: put it into a 
mioe-DQat, and mix with it, by degrees, 
12 



about half ft pint of good melted batter, oolj 
do not put so much flour to it, as the par*- 
k^ will add to its thickness: never poor 
parsley and butter over boiled things, but 
send it up in a boat. 

PARSLEY, CRISP. Pick and wash 

young parsley, shake it in a dry ck>th lo 
drain the water from it ; spread it on a sheet 
of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, and turn it fiiequently until it is qoite 
crisp. This is a much more ea«y way of 
preparing it than fiying it, which is not sel- 
dom ill done. 

PARSNIPS, TO BOIL. Scrape and 
wash them nicely ; when large, divide them ; 
boil them in milk and water till quite tender; 
they will take nearly as long to boil as car- 
rots. Tliey may also be mashed like tur- 
ni|)8. 

PARTRIDGES, TO CHOOSE. When 
they are young the bill is of a dark cokir, 
and their legs are of a yellowish color; and 
when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part 
will look greenish when stale. The plumage 
on the breast of the hen is light, that on the 
cock is tinged with fed. 

PARTRIDGES BROILED. Take 

five partridges, cut tliem in halves, trim and 
dip tliem in melted butter, and bread them 
twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner 
broil tliem. 

PARTRIDGES MINCED. Take the 

fillets from eight roasted partridges, mince, 
and put them into a saucepan ; make a light 
rouXy in which put the livers and lights of 
the birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shallots, 
and a little sage, give tliem a few turas, and 
then add two large glasses of stock, reduce 
the sauce to half, strain and put it to the 
mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth ; 
make it hot, but not boiling; serve it over 
fried bread, and garnish your dish, widi 
eidier poached or hard eggs. 

PARTRIDGE IN BREAD. Take a 
nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight ; 
make a hole at one end, through which take 
out all the crumbs, rub the crust over with a 
little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for 
a few minutes to dry: fill tliis with minced 
partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, 
bottom upwards^ into a stewpan ; add two 
spoonfiils of veal blond, with any other gar- 
nish you please ; lot it remain on the fire till 
tlie breadf is soft enough to alk>w a straw to 
penetrate it, then take it out and dish it with 
the sauce round. 

PARTRIDGE Vm IN A DISH. TUw 



PAR 



134 



PA9 



fiNir pam-idges, pick and singe them; cut 
offthuir legs at the knee; season witli pep- 
per, salt, diopped parsley, thyme, and mush- 
rooms. Put a veal steak and a slice of ham 
at the bottom of the dish ; put in the par- 
tridges with half a pint of good consomme. 
Line the edges of the dish with puff paste, 
and cover with Uie same ; do it over witli 
egg, and let it bake (or an hour. 

PARTRIDGE TO ROAST. Take 
out the entrails, and singe the partridge over 
the stove, then roll a bit of butter in pepper 
and salt, and put it into the inside of the 
bird ; truss it neatly with the head turned on 
one side, keeping the breast as fbll as possi- 
ble ; over which should be laid slices of fat 
bacon tied on with pack-thread ; before it is 
put on the spit, break the back-bone, that it 
may lay the better on the dish. A good 
sized partridge will take half an hour; when 
nearly done, take away the bacon, brown 
the partridge well ; sprinkle it witli flour and 
salt, and froth it with butter ; serve it with 
WHter-cre::«es, a good gravy under it, and 
kMread sauce in a &>at. 

PARTRIDGE TO TRUSS. Let it be 
well picked and singed, then cut a slit in 
the back of tlie neck, and carefully take tlte 
crop out without breaking it; tlien cut off 
the vent, and draw out the inside ; after this, 
well wipe, the inside, and tlien put in a little 
pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. 
Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the 
bird, by first cutting off the pinion at the firat 
joint, so tliat the feathers need not be picked 
off that part ; break the back-bone, and truss 
it in the same manner as a fowl, by pressing 
the legs close to tlie apron, tlien turn die bird 
on the breast, and run a skewer through the 
end of the pinion, the leg, tlte body, and the 
leg and pinion on the other side, with the 
head fixed on the end of tlie skewer, and 
over tlie breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and 
tie it on with pack-thread. If for lx)iling or 
stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for 
boiling. 

PARTRIDGES TO STEW. Truss 
the partrid^ as fowls are done for boiling; 
pound the Uvers with double tlie quantity of 
htt bacon and bread-crumbs boiled in milk; 
and some chopped parsley, tliyme, shallots, 
and mushrooms; season witli pepfier, salt, 
grated lemon-peel, and mace. Stuff tlie in- 
side of tlie birds, tie them at both ends, and 
not tliem into a stewpan lined with slices of 
bacon ; add a quart of good stock, half a pint 
of white wine, two onions, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a few blades of mace ; let tliem 
■tew gently till tender; take them out, strain 
and tliicken the sauce with flour and butter, 
make it hot, and pour it over the partridges. 



PASTE. Be very jiarticular Chat yoar 
slab or paste table, rolling-pin and cutters 
are clean, and free from all old paste, and be 
very careful that both the flour and buttM* 
are extremely good. Have a dry sieve al- 
ways in readiness, in or by the flour tub, 
so as to use none without sifling it; for, 
though it may appear pure and fine, bran, or 
small particlesr of old paste' may have &lleii 
into it; sifting is, therefore, always neces- 
sary. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a 
circle on the slab: break one egg in the cen- 
tre, put a small quantity of salt, and a littla 
bit of butter ; mix all tliese together lightly^ 
add a little water, mix them again, then add 
more water, and so proceed until it binds 
into paste; but take care that you' do not 
make it too stiff, nor squeeze it moch to- 
gether, till ^ou find there is sufficient water; 
then work it well together, and roll it but od 
the slab, but do not roll it too thin ; work a 
pound of butter on the slab, spread it out U> 
the size of the paste, with a knife cot it off 
altogether, and lay it on the paste; then 
double the ends of the paste together, to in- 
close tlie butler ; then give it one turn, thns: 
roll it out till you just perceive the butter 
through the paste; turn the end which is 
next to you half way over, and the other end 
over that, roll it once or twice with the roll- 
ing-pin ; then let it stand, tliis is called one 
turn; then, in three minutes time, turn it 
again, and so proceed until you have given 
it six turns ; then roll it out, and cut it for 
patties or any shape you please ; but observe 
not to put over tliem too much egg, as that 
will prevent their rising; as soon as th^ 
are iKiked, take them off the sheet, lay them 
on paper, and wlien cold, scrape tlie bottoiiis> 
neatly cut out the insides ready for what- 
ever you mean to put into them. For bak- 
ing, see directions for the oven. 

PASTE, BEEF DRIPPING. Rub 
into one pound of flour half a pound of 
clarified beef dripping, till it all looks like 
flour; work it to a stiff paste widi cold wa- 
ter, and roll it out two or tliree times. This 
paste answers very well for common pies, but 
must be used when hot and fresli baked. 

PASl^ FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 
Pick and chop very fine half a pound of beef 
suet, add to it one pound and a craarter of 
floiu-, and a little salt: mix it widi half a 
pint of milk or water, and beat it well with 
die rolling-pin, to incorporate the suet with 
tlie flour. 

PASTE FOR CHEESECAKES. Rub 
equal quantities of flour and butter, together 
witli a little pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
make it into a paste, with warm miJk, rott 
it out, and line die pans with it. 



PAS 



135 



PAS 



PASTE, CRISP. Rub a quarter of a 
pound of flouTj ado two table-spoonfuls of 
pounded loaf-sogar, aod the well-beaten volka 
of two or three eggs, work it well with a 
horn-spoon, and roll it out very thin, touch- 
ing it aa little as possible with the hands; 
Che moment l)efore putting into a quick oven 
rah it over witli the well-beaten white of an 
c^, and aid all over the tart finely-pounded 
sugar. This crust may be used for any fruit 
tarts. 

PASTE FOR CROQUANTS OR 
Ojt Pastry. To half a pound of fine 
floor put a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf- 
sugar; mix it well together with yolks of 
eggs till of a good stif&ess. 

PASTE FOR A COMMON DUM- 
PLING. Rub into a pound of flour six 
ounces of butter, then work it into a paste 
with two well-b^ten eggs and a little water. 
This paste may be baked, a large table-«poon- 
liil of pounded loaf-sugar being added to it. 

PASTE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub 
into one pound and a lialf of fiour half a 
pound ofbutter, wet it with cold water suffi- 
cient to make it into a stiff paste; work' it 
weD, and roll it out two or ihvce times. 

PASTE, POTATO. Mash sixteen oun- 
ces of boiled potatoes, while they are warm, 
then rub them between the hands, together 
with twdvc ounces of flour; when it is well 
mix^, and all looks like flour, add half a 
lea-efKM>oful of salt, and, with a little cold 
water, make it into a stiff paste; beat and 
roB it out three or four times, making it very 
thin the last time. Lay it over black cur- 
rant jam, raspberries, or any sort of preserve, 
rub the edges with water, roll it up like a 
bolster pudding, and boil it in a buttered 
and floured ck>th for three or four hours. 
Serve it with a sweet sauce. 

PASTE, PUFF. Weigh an equal quan- 
tity of flour and butter, rub rather more than 
the half of the flour into one third of the 
butter, then add as much cold water as will 
make it into a stiff paste; work it until the 
butter be completely mixed with the Hour, 
make it round, beat it witli the rolling-pin, 
dost it, as also the rotllng-pin, with flour, and 
roll it out towards die opposite side of the 
stab, or paste-board, making it of an e()ual 
thickness; then with the point of a knife put 
tittle bits of butter all over it, dust flour over 
and under it, fold in the sides and roll it up, 
dust it again with flour, beat it a little, and 
roll it out, always rubbing the rolling-pin 
with flour, and throwing some underneath the 
paste, to prevent its stickino; to Uie board. 
If the butter is not all easi^ put in at the 



aeoood time of rolling out the paite, lh» 
remainder may be put in at the third ; it 
should be touched as little as pooaible with 
the hands. 

PASTE, PYRAMID. Make a rich 
puff paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch 
thick, and cut it into five or atven pieces 
with scalloped tin paste cutters, which go 
one within another ; leave the bottcMn and 
top piece entire, and cut a bit out of the 
centre of die others ; bake thvm of a ligltt 
brown upon buttered paper placed upon tins. 
When served, build them mto a pyramid, 
laying a diffei^nt preserved fruit upon each 
piece of paste, and on the top a whole apri- 
cot, with a sprig of myitle stuck into it, or 
green-gages, ornamented with a bonch of 
barberries. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR SAVORY 
PIES. Srfl two pounds of fine flour to one 
and a half of good salt butter, break it into 
small pieces, and wash it well in cold wa- 
ter ; rub gently togedier the butter and flour, 
and mfx it up with the yolk of thi^ee eggs, 
beat together with a spoon; and nearly a 
pint of spring-water; roll it out, and diuble 
it in fokls three times, and it is ready. 

PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 

four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
and a little salt, mix these t<^ther, adding 
water, a little at a time, taking care not to 
put too much, as this paste must bo made as 
stiff as possible; wlien thorou^y mixed, 
give it two or tliree turns, roll it and cut it 
out to the shape you want for your pie. 
Sometimes the butter is melted in warm wa- 
ter, and so mixed with the flour; then it 
will not require so much water, and the 
paste will stand better; but as you work 
your paste, when you find it get too cold, 
warm it a little ; the first method of doing 
it is the best, if intended to be eaten. 

PASTE, RICE. (1) Mix together half 
a pound of sifted ground rice and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh but^r, work it uito a 
paste with cold water, dredge flour ov«" the 
paste-board and )V)lHns-pin, roll out the 
paste, and put over it, m little bits, another 
quarter of a pound of butter ; fold and roll it 
out three times, strewing each time a little 
flour over and under it, as also over the 
rolling-pin. Cover the tart, and glaze it be- 
fore being baked. This paste must be eaten 
the day it is baked. 

PASTE, RICE. (2) Boil, in a pint of 
water, half a pound of good rice ; drain off the 
water, and pound the rice in a mortar, with 
a small bit of butter, and an egg beaten ; 
tlien roll it out to cover any firuit tart 



PEA 



136 



PEA 



PASTE, RICH SHORT. Weigh 
equal quantitieB of floor, of butter, aod of 
pounded and sifted loaf-sugar; rub the but- 
tn* with the flour, then mix in the sugar, 
and rub it togedier till it wiU roll out ; put 
it about half an inch thick over tlie tart, 
which may be of cherries, raspbeiries, or 
currants. 

PASTE, SHORT, FOR TARTS. 
Take one pound of flour, lay it on the slab, 
and in the ceutre put half a pound of butter, 
two eggs, a very little salt, ajid a little wa- 
ter, mix diem lightly together, and continue 
adding more water, till you find it bind ; mix 
it on the slab a little, and give it two turns, 
it is then ready for Ube. 

PASTE, SUET. Rub well with half a 
pound of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as 
possible, ihree-quarters of a pound of flour, 
and half a tea-spoonful of sail; make it into 
a stifif paste with cold water, work it well, 
beat it with the rolliog-pin, and roll it out 
two or tiiree times. This pawte answers ior 
any kind of boiled fi-uit pudding. 

^ASTE, SWEET. Rub into half a 
pound of flour tlu'ee ounces of butler and die 
same of pounded loaf-sugar, add one beaten 
egg, and as iiyich wai*ra water as will make 
it mto a paste; roll it thin for any kind of 
fruit tiirt, ruB it over with the beaten white 
of an egg, and sift sugar over it. 

PASTE FOR STRINGING TART- 
LETS. Mix with your hands a quarter 
of a pound of flour, an ounce of fi^esh butler, 
and a little cold water ; nib it well Ijetween 
the boai*d and your lutnd till it begins to 
string ; cut it into small pieces, roll it out, 
and draw it into fiue slringzs, kiy tliem acroiis 
your tartletd in any device you please, and 
bake tliem immediately. 

PATTIES FOR FRIED BREAD. Cut 

the crumb of a loaf of bieiid i)ito dquare or 
round pieces noarly three incluis liij^li, and 
cut bits the same V^ulth for tons ; uiark tliein 
neatly with a knife ; fry the niead of a liglit 
brown color in clarified beef-dripping or fine 
lard. Scoop out the inside crumb, take 
care not to go too near to the Imttoin ; fill 
them with mince meat, prepaied as for pat- 
ties, with stewed oysters, or witii sausiige 
meat; put on Uie tops, and serve them upon 
a napkm. 

PATTIES, LOBSTER. SeeLobMters, 

PEACHES, CHARLOTTE OF. Take 
twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut them in 
halves, and scald tliem in a light sirup ; tlien 
drain and cut each half into three pieces 



(lengthwise) of equal thickneas; pot 1 
into a pan with a quarter of a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and half the quantity of warm 
butter ; fly them lightly, and having prepar- 
ed your Charlotte in the usual way, poor in 
die peaches and finish it (see Charlotte). 
Wlien in the dish for table, cover it ccHii- 
pletely witli die sirup, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

PEARS BAKED. (1) Take twelve Im^B 
baking pears ; pare and cut them into halves, 
leaving the stem about half an inch kxig; 
take out the core with the point of a knife, 
and place them close together in a block-tiD 
saucepan, the inside of which is quite bright, 
with die cover to fit quite close ; pot to tfaem 
the ruKi of a lemon cut thin, with half its 
juice, a small stick of cinnamon, and twenty 
grains of allspice ; cover them with sprii^- 
water, and allow one pound of loaf-sugar to 
a pint and a half of water: cover than up 
close, and bake them for six hours in a very 
slow oven : they will be quite tender, and of a 
bright color. 0&«. — Prepared cochineal is 
generally used for coloring the peais; but 
It die abtive is strictly attended to, it wiU be 
found to answer best. 

PEARS EAKED. (2) Take half a 

dozen fine {.cat 8, peel, cut them in halves, 
and take out tlic cores ; put them into apao 
with a little red wine, a few cloves, hiu a 
pouml of sugar, and some water. Set them 
m a moderate oven till tender, then put them 
on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated 
letuon-peel, and more sugar if necessary. 
They will be sufficiently red. 

PEARS COMPOTE. Choose yair 
fruit carefully, take off the tops, and trim 
the tails, wash and drain diem well ; then 
put them into a skillet with sugar, cinna- 
mon, two or three cluves, a little red wine, 
and some water. Set them on a slow fire, 
taking care to skin them. When suffici^itly 
dune, tliey will look wrinkled. Peel your 
fruit, aiid put it into a well glazed pi(»iD, 
with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, 
sugar to the taiE<te, and a little water ; put in 
also a pewter spoon ; cover the pipkin close, 
and set it on hot ashes. When done, the 
peaiii will be of a fine red color, 

PEARS TO COMPOUND. Take a 
dozen large pears, coddle Uiem ; when ten- 
der, take them out and by tliem in cold wa- 
ter, pare and cut them in halves ; take out 
the cores, put them in sirup made thus: — 
Two pounds and a half ot sugar to three 
pints of water, a little lemon-peel pared very 
thin, boiled in them, and a little cochineal 
bruised and (lut into a muslin bag: cover 
them, boil them quick till they are teocfeff 



P£A 



137 



PEP 



and Qfa good color; when cold, sqoeexe in 
tbe jkiice of two or three femoiM. 

PEARS PRESERVED. Take care 
in making this preserre that the fruit be not 
too ripe ; they are in a fit state as soon as 
the pips are black. Set the pears on the 
fire in a sufficient quantity of water to cover 
tb«n ; take them off when quite soft, and 
dvow them into cold wator; pare them 
liefady, cut off the stalks, prick each with a 
pm sufficiently k>n^ to readi the core, and 
nat them again into ooki water, with a 
faandfi]! of alum; set them on the fire to boil 
ntil the pears are tender, then take them out, 
and pot them into cold water for the third 
time. Clarify and boil some sugar, pot some 
water to it, aind when it boils, ^d the peara, 
cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; 
skim and pour it into an earthen pan and 
leave it. The next da^, drain the sirup 
fixHu the pears, add a little more clarified 
sugar to It, and boil it again ; pour it over 
the fruit, and leave it as before; the next 
and tMW successive days, proceed in the tome 
way, each time increasing the degree of 
boiling, then add the pears, give the pre- 
serve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into 
a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, 
then drain the firuit, and put it by for use. 

PEARS STEWED. (1) Wash and prick 
some large stewing pears, and set them on 
the fire in a large stewing-pan of water to 
scald; when scalded, take them out, and 
put them on the fire in a pan with a sufficient 
quantity of tliin clarified supr to cover them, 
a stick of cinnamon, a littfe mace, and two 
CNT three cloves; let them stew gently till 
they begin to soften and look rather red, 
then put in a bottle of Port wine, and let 
them continue stewing until perfectly done, 
and kmk very rich and red; then put them 
in a basin or jar, with the liquor over than ; 
they will be aJl the better for Keeping four or 
five days. 

PEARS STEWED. (2) Pare, cut into 
quart^v, and take out the core of six good 
baking pears ; throw them as they are done 
into water. To a pound of firuit allow a 
quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and three 
cloves; pat them into a saucepan, cover 
them with cold water, keep the pan ckisely 
covered, and stew them gently, till red and 
tender; add, Just before serving, a glass of 
Van wine. They may be eaten hot or cold, 
with cream, after dinner or at supper. 

PEAS, GREEN. Young green peas, 

well dressed, are amonff the most delicious 

ddjcacies of the vegetable kingdom. They 

most be young; it is equally indispensable 

12* 



that they be fi^sh sathered, and cooked •• 
soon as they are shelled (or tliey soon loee 
both their color and sweetness. After being 
shelled, wash them, drain them in a cullen- 
der, put them on in plenty of boiling water^ 
with a tea-6poonfi)l of salt, and one of pound- 
ed kmf su^; boil ihem till they become 
lender, which, if young, will be in less than 
half an hour; if old, mey will require mora 
than an hour; drain thiem in a cullender, 
and put them immediately into a dish wiUi 
a slice of fresh butter in it; scnne people 
think it an improvement to boil a small bunch 
of mint with the peas; it is then minced 
finely, and laid in small heaps at the end or 
sides of tbe dish. If peas are allowed to 
stand in the water after being boiled they 
lose their color. 

PEAS FOR A SECOND COURSE. 

Put a quart of fine green peas, together with 
a bit of butter tlie size of a walnut, into as 
much warm water as will cover them, in 
which let them stand for eight or ten min- 
utes. Strain off the water.^Mit them into a 
saucepan, cover it, stir them frequently, and 
when a little tender, add a bunch of pariW, 
and a young onion, neai ly a desseii-cfxwnUil 
of loafnsugar, and an ounce of butter mixed 
with a tea-epoonfiil of flour ; keep stirring 
them now and then tiU the peas be tender, 
and add, if they become too thick, a table- 
spoonful of hot water. Before serving, take 
out tbe onion and parsley. 

PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of 
good split peas, and having washed, soak 
them well in warm water ; then tie them in 
a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan of 
hot water, and boil it until quite soft. Wlien 
done, beat it up with a little butter and salt; 
serve it with boiled pork or beef. 

PEAS POWDER. Pound together 
in a mart)le mortar half an ounce each of 
dried mint and sage, a drachm of celeiy- 
seed, and a quarter of a di-achm of cayenne 
pepper; rub them throug4i a fine sieve. Thi^ 
gives a very savory reluh to peas soup, and 
to water gruel, which, by its help, if the 
eater of it has not the most lively imagina- 
tion, he may (ancy he is sipping good peas 
soup. Obs. — ^A drachm of allspice, or black 
pepper, may be pounded with the above as 
an addition, or instead of the cayenne. 

PEPPER POT. Take as much spinach 
as will fill a good sized dish, put it in a 
saucepan without any water, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil ; then drain off all the li- 
quor, chop the spinach very fine, and return 
it to the saucepan, with the water just drain- 
ed firom it, more water, onions, three or km 



PER 



138 



PIC 



potatoes, a lettnoe or head of endive cut 
small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if 
you luive them, and half a pound of bacon ; 
put the whole on the fire, and when it has 
boiled for about an hour, put In a few suet 
dumplings; leave it twenty or thirty min- 
utes longer; season it well with cayenne, and 



PEPPER POT IN A TUREEN. Stew 
gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to 
uiree, three pounds of beef, half a pound of 
lean ham, a bunch of dried thvme, two on- 
ions, two large potatoes pared and sliced ; 
then strain it through a cullender, and add 
a large fowl, cut into joints and skinned, 
half a pound of pickled pork sliced, the 
meat of one lobster minced, and some small 
suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When 
dbe fowl IS well boiled, add half a peck of 
spinach, tliat has been boiled and rubbed 
through a cullender; season with salt and 
cayenne. It is very good without the lean 
hua and fowl. 

PERCH BOILED. Put them into cold 
^'ater, and let them boil carefully $ serve with 
melted butter and soy. 

PERCH BROILED. Scrape, gut, and 
wash tliem ; dry tliem in a cloth, dust them 
with flour, and broil them. Sauce ;— melted 
butter. Or they may be broiled without 
gutting them. They may also be stewed as 
carp are done. 

PERCH WITH WINte. Having scal- 
ed and taken out tlie gills, put the perch into 
a stewpan, with etjual quantities of stock 
and white wine, a bav-leaf, a clove of gar- 
lie, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two 
cloves, and some salt. When done, take 
out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dr^s 
of vrhich mix with some buttor and a little 
flour; beat these up, set them on the fire, 
stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated 
nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy butter. Drain 
the perch well, and dish them with the above 



PERLIN60. Take a pound and a half 
of silted flour, and having placed it on your 
slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into 
which put threeK]uarters of a pound of brown 
sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, the rind 
of two lemons grated, and ten e^ ; knead 
all these ingredients. togediar well, until you 
have a oretty firm paste; if it should be too 
thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut 
liie paste into small pieces, each of which 
roll m the palms of your hands, till they are 
the lenffth and thickness of your finger ; take 
• lound stick (about half the diameter of your 



paste), press this down, on each cf the 
pieces, so that they may be their original 
thickness on one side, and thin on the other; 
when all are thus massed, form them into 
little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the 
thin end uppennort), lay ihem on white pa- 
per, and bake them in a moderate oven; in 
tlie meanwhile, make some white sugar Tar* 
nish or icing, and when the perlingoe are 
sufficiently done, dip them carefiilly in the 
varnish, one by one; then replace them ia 
the oven, a minute or two, to dry. 

PERRY. Perry is a pleasant and whole- 
some liquor, made from the juice of pears, 
by means of fermentation, somewhat in the 
sanie manner as cider is made firom appka. 

PETTITOES. Boil the feet, the liver, 
and the heart, of a sucking pig, in a little 
water, verj' gently, then split the feet, and 
cut the meat very small, and simmer it with 
a little of die water till the feet are perfectly 
tender; thicken witli a bit of butter, a little 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper 
and salt ; eive it a boil up, pour it over a few 
sippets of bread, put the feet on the mince. 

PICKLE FOR MEAT. Six pounds 
of salt, one pound of sugar, and four ounces 
of saltpetre, boiled with four gallons of water, 
skimmed, and alk>wed to cool, forms a very 
strong pickle, which will preserve any meat 
completely immersed in it. To eflect this, 
which is essential, either a heavy board or a 
flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided 
it be boiled up occasionally with additional 
salt to i-estore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the salt with the 
meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by 
the juices of the meat extracted. Bv boiling, 
the albumen, which would cause the pickfe 
to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form 
of scum, which must be carefiiUy ronoved. 

An H-bone, of ten or twelve pounds, 
weight will require about three-quarters oia, 
pound of salt, and an ounce <^ moist sugar, 
to be well rubbed into it. It will be rouiy 
in four or five days, if turned and rubbed 
every day. 

The time meat requires saking depends 
upon the weight of it, and how much sak im 
used: and if it be rubbed in with a heavy 
hand, it will be ready much sooner than it 
only lightly rubbed. 

N. B. Dry the salt, and rub it with the 
su^r in a mortar. 

Pork requires a longer time to cure (in 
proportion to its weight) than heei. A leg 
of pork shouhl be in salt eight or ten days; 
turn it and rub it every day. 

Salt meat should be well washed before iC 



PIE 



1S» 



PIS 



is boiled, especially if it has been in eak 
Imw, that the liquor in which the meat is 
bolted, may not be too eait to make aoup of. 
If it has been in sak a kn^ time, and yon 
feur that it will be too eak, wash it well n 
esld water, and soak k ki lake-warm water 
far a oonple of hours. U it is very Mft, 
hy it in water the night before yoo intend to 
dress it. 

PICKL£ FOR TONGUES. To fenr 
AaAons of water, add two pounds and a 
half of treacle* eight pounds of sak, two 
eanoes of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it un- 
til dear, sprinkle nit over the tongue, and 
let it stand two days, wipe it clean before 
you put it into die pickle, which must be quite 
ooid; boil the pickle, evurv two or tluee 
moadis, ai^liog two or three haadftils of sak, 
skimming it well. Half the quantity is suf- 
ifeient for two tongues. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF. Alfew to four 
galione of water two pounds of brown sngar 
and six pounds of salt, boil it about twenty 
numrtes, taking <^ the scum as it rises ; thie 
foUowing day pour it over the meat which 
has bera packed into the pickling-tnb. Boil 
it every two months, addmg three ounces of 
brown sugar and half a pound of common 
sak. By this means it will keep good a 
year. 'Hie meat must be sprinklM with 
salt, and the next day wiped dry, before 
pouring the pickle over it, with whuh it 
riionld always be oomfdetely covered. With 
the addition of two ounces of saltpetre and 
one pound of salt, this pickle answers for 
pidited pork, hams, and tongues. The 
tongues diould be rubbed with common salt, 
to cleanse them, and afterwm^ with a little 
saltpetre, and allowed to lie four or five dv^ 
before they are put into the pickle. The 
meat will be ready for use in eight or ten 
days, and will keep for three months. 

PICKLES. Pickles ought to be stored 
in a chr place and the vessels most approv- 
ed of for keeping them in, are wide-mouth- 
ed ^iass bottles, or strong stone-ware jars, 
having corks or bungs, wlrich must be fitted 
in wiUi Ipneo, and covered with bladder or 
leather; and for taking the pickles out and 
returning them to the jar, a small wooden 
spoon is kept. The stroneeet vinegar is 
and for pickling; that of ciaet more partic- 
olarly recommended, but surar vinegar wUl 
generallv be found sufhcientTy stnmg. It is 
essential to the excellence and beauty of 
pickles, that they be always completely cov- 
ered with vinegar. 

Ste Hot PiekUi, India FUkUB, Omunu, 
CueitmberSf 4rc* ^< 



deep mtkf mie the ^dge with pnn nstn mm 
a common pie; slew a quarter or a pouni 
of ruse with some sqgar until quite son and 
sweet; take a pound of ripe juk^ dierrieii 
which pick ana roll in a quarter of a pound 
of powderHMigar, and by about a quarter of 
them at the bottom of the dish; cover these 
with a fourth part of the rioe, then the chet^ 
ries again, and so on till your maleriak an 
used, taking care to keep the pus high in the 
middle ; cover it widi a layer of fuS pnste> 
whiib wash over li^tiy with some while of 
egg, and strew a httle powder-sugar over; 
put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a 
quarter; then take it out, mask the crast 
with apricot marmalade, and a few mncn- 
Serve it either hot er ooU. 



FIE, APPLE. (I) Tbke eight raw- 
tings, or lemon pippin apples; pare, core, 
ana cat not smaller than ciuarters; place 
them as close as pomiMe together inioa pin* 
dish, with four cloves; tw> tosether in n 
nuMtar scHne lemon-peel, with four ounces 
of good moist sugar, and, if agreeable, add 
some quince jam; cover it wim puff paste; 
bake it an hour and a quarter. (Generally 
eaten waim). 

PIE, APPLE. (2) Pare, quarter, and 
core the apples; cut them into thin bits. 
Put into the bottom of a pie-dish a table- 
spoonfol of brown sugar, with a tea-spoon- 
ful of grated ginger and lemon-peel, then 
a layer of apiMes, and so on sitemaldy, 
till the dish is piled as foil as it will bold. 
The next day wet the rim of the dish, line 
it with puff or tart paste, brush it with wa- 
ter, and cover it with paste; press the edge 
all round, notch it with a paste-cutter, and 
make a small hole with the point of a knife 
in the middle. It may be seasoned with 
two table*«poonfttls of lemon or orange mar- 
malade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and 
cloves, in addition to the ginger and lemon- 
peel. 

PIE, APPLE WITH MUSCADEL 
RAISINS. Peel twenty renneting apples, 
cut them in quarters, and then cut each quar- 
ter into five or six pieces; toss them in a 
pan with four ounces of susar in powder, 
(over whkh shouM be grated the peel of a 
lemon), four ounces of butter kkewarm, 
and four ounces of fine muscadel phnns. 
Line the edge of a deep dish with a good 
puff pastC) then put in your fruit, and cover 
your dish widi a good puff paste a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, glaae widi the white 
of an egv, and strew sugar over it. Let it 
bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve 
it hot. 



PIE« ANGLO^RANCAIS. Take a PIE, APRICOT. Law a dish with pnff 



PIE 



140 



PIE 



fMMts, and then put in eighteen find apricots, 
(cut in halves and the stones taken oat,) 
with (am ounces of sugar in powder, and 
four <Minoes of butter lukewarm. Th«i hty 
on the upper crust, glaze with the white of 
ege, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it 
bake in a moderate oven to a nice light col- 
or. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve 
it cold, you must leave out the butter. 

PIE, BEEF KIDNEY. Cut some kid- 
neys into thin slices, and place tliwn in 
the bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet 
herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, ehal- 
k>t8, mushrooms, pep^r, and salt; con- 
tinue this till the dish is fiiU, then cover the 
whole with slices of bacon, then finish your 
pie ; bake it in the oven ; wlien done, take 
out the bacon, and skim off the &t ; make a 
sauce with a glass of white wine, a tolerable 
quantity of cullis, and reduce it to tlie con- 
sistence of a good sauce, then squeeze an 
orange in it. Serve your pie hot. 

PIE, BEEF-STEAK. Cut the steaks off 
a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and 
lean together, about half an inch thick; heat 
them a little witli a rolling-pin, put dver 
them some pepper, salt, and parboiled onion 
minced ; roll tliera up, and pack them neatly 
into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add 
some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonful 
of vinegar. Cover die pie with a puff paste, 
and bake it for an hour. It is a common 
but mistaken opinion, that it is necessary 
to put stock or water into meat pies. Beef, 
mutton, veal, and pork, if not previously 
dressed, will be found to yield a sufficiency 
cf gravy, and the pie will be better witliout 
any additional liquid. N. B. — ^Large oys- 
ters, parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately 
with the steaks, their liquor reduced and 
substituted instead of the ketchup and wine, 
will be a variety. 

PIE, CHICKEN. Parboil, and then 
cut up neatly two ydunff chickens ; dry them ; 
set them over a slow fire for a few minutes ; 
have ready some veal stuffing or forcemeat, 
lay it at the bottom of die dish, and place in 
thie chickens upon it, and with it some pie- 
ces of dressed ham; cover it with pauste. 
Bake it from sui hour and a half to two 
hours ; when sent to table, add some good 

O, well seasoned, and not too thick, 
pie is made in like manner, only sub- 
stituting the duck stuffing instead of the veal. 
N. B. — ^The above may be put into a raised 
French crust and baked; when done, take 
off the top, and put a ragout <^ sweetbread 
to the chicken. 

PIE, COD. Lay a fine piece of fresh 
€od m salt for M?eral hours, then wash it 



well, season it with pc^)per, salt, mitmegand 
mace; pbce it in a dish, with a little but- 
ter and smne good stock. Lay a crust cyvcr, 
and bake it; when done, pour in a saooe, 
made as follows :-~-a spoonfiil of stock, a 
quarter of a pint of oream, flour and batter, 
grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel^ and 
a few oysters, boil the whole once. 

PIE, COLD BEEF, VEAL, OR MUT- 
TON. Pound in a mortar some iM>iled po- 
tatoes; boil a cu|^l of milk, and while boC, 
mix it with the potatoes, and beat thena till 
they beccMne like a light paste; roll it out, 
cut it with a fiat dish, the size of a pie disb, 
so as it may be laid frmn off it upon the 
pie; cut the meat into slices, season it with 
pepper and salt, j3ut half a pint of gravy, wet 
the edges of the dish, and put over it the 
paste, and bake it till the paste be sofficieDtly 
dune. 

PIE, DEVIZES. Cut into very tbm 
slices, ailer being dressed, cold calPs lieml, 
with some of the brains, pickled tongue, 
sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a few slices of ba- 
con, and hard-boiled eggs ; put tliem in las- 
ers into a pie-dish, widi plenty of seasooing 
between each, of cayenne, white pepper, 
allspice, and salt; fill up die disb with ridi 
gi'avy ; cover it witli a flour and u^ter paste; 
bake it in a slow oven, and wlien perfectly 
cold, take off the crust, and turn the pie oat 
upon a dish; garnish it with parsley and 
pickled eggs cut into slices. 

PIE, DUCK. Scald a couple of ducks, 
and make them very clean ; cut off the feet, 
pinions, necks, and heads. Take out the 
gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, 
and scald them. Pick out the fot of the in- 
side, lay a good puff-paste crust all over the 
dish, season the ducks both inside and out, 
with pepper and salt, and lay them in the 
dish, witli the giblets at each end, properly 
seasoned. Put in as much water as will 
nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it 
be well baked. 

PIES, EGG MINCE. Boil six eggs 
until they are hard, shred them small ; shred 
double the quantity of suet; then add one 
pound of currants picked and washed, (V 
the eggs were large you must use more cur- 
rants) the peel of one lemon shred vnry fite, 
and the juice, six spoonfob of sweet wine^ 
mace, nutm^, sugar, a very small qoantitT 
of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. 
Make a light paste for them. 

PIE, FRENCH. Mince some cold roast 
veal together with a little ham, seaaoa it 
highly with pepper, salt, mace, and i 
pwl; add a bu^ tafab-spooofid of i 



PIfi 



141 



JFtl 



fmnn ketebup, and a quarter of a kmdined 
«f oysters, witfi their Hquolr» aod three or 
four taUe-spoonfub of ridi ffravy. Line a 
dish Willi puff paste, pot io me ingredients, 
cover the pie, and let it remain in the oven 
long enough to hake the paste. 

PIE, GIBLET. Stew the giblets in a 
little inter f with an onion stock with two or 
three doves, a bunch of sweet harbs, some 
eak, and whole pepper; cat a fowl into 
joints, skin and wash it, season it with pep- 
per, salt, and half an onion finely minced. 
Take oat the onion, herbs, and whole pep- 
per; pot the fowl, ffibletB, and gravy into a 
d^, add a glass of white wine, and two ta- 
Ue-spoonfbis of mm^iroom ketchup; cover 
the didi with puff paitte, and bake it for an 
hour. 

FIE, GOOSE. Prepare a very strong 
raised crust, and make the sides thick and 
stiff. Take the bones out of a goose, tur- 
I key, and fowl, cutting each down the buck ; 
season them higlily with pepper, salt, mace, 
cloves, and nutmeg, all finely pounded and 
wen mixed. Lay the goose upon a dish, 
with the breast win next the dish ; lay in 
the turkey, put some slices of boiled nam 
and tongue, and then die fowl ; cover it with 
iiule bits of ham or bacon. Put it all int» 
the pie, made of an ovaJ form, and die sides 
to stand an inch and a haff above the meat; 
put on the top, and make a hole in die cen- 
tre of it. Brush the outside of the pie all 
over with the beaten whites of eggs, and 
bind it rouird with three folds of Ixittered 
paper ; paste the top over in the same way, 
and when it comes out of the oven, take off 
the pApet', and pour in at the top, through a 
fimnel, a pound and a half of melted butter. 

PIES, LOBSTER. See Lobster. 

PIE, ITALIAN. Mix together some 
chopped thyme, parsley, and one or two sage 
leaves, some salt, white and cayenne pep- 
per; by into the bottom of a diedi some thin 
slices of lean veal, sprinkle them with the 
seasoning, and add slices of ham,-and a few 
forcemeat balls; put a layer of seasoned 
veal, and of ham and forcemeat balls, till the 
dish is fill I, and then add the yolks of five 
hard-boiied eggs, and some good white stock ; 
cover the dish with a puff paste, and bake 
it for an hour. Before serving, pom* in, 
through a funnel at die centre of the crust, 
a tea-copfiil of rich cream. 

PIES, MAIGEE FISH, Salt^fish pie. 
The thi^uest pert must be chosen, and put 
in cold water to soak the nigiit before want- 
ed ; then boil it well, take it up, take away 
the bones a«d skin, atid if it is good fisti it 



wiU be ia Ifaie laiftn; set it on a M-dnikk 

er to get cold: in the meantiKie, boil torn 
eggs hard, peel and slice them v«ry thai, 
the same quantity of onkxi felfoed thin ; Ihtt 
the bottom of a pie-dish with fish Ibroemit, 
or a la)^ of potatoes sliced thhi, then h 
kyer of onions, then of fidi, and of eggs, and 
so on till the dish is foil; season each layar 
with a little pepuer, then mix a tea-qxxmfid 
of made mustard, the same of esMoce of an- 
chovy, a little mushroom ketehop, in a gill 
of water, put it in the dish, then put on tte 
top an ounce of fresh butler broke in bits; 
cover it with pirff paste, and bake it one 
hour. Fresh cod may be done in the same 
way, by adding a littfe salt. All fish for 
making pies, whether soles, Acwodera, he^ 
rings, salmon, bb«ter, eeb, trcttt, tench, Ut. 
shoukl be dressed firat; this is the moM 
economical way for Gatholk; fomilies. 

PIES, MINCE. (1) Carefully stone and 
cot, but not too small, one pound and a half 
of bloom raisins ; cut small half a pound of 
orange-peel, mince finely half a dozen of 
middling-sized good apples, a quarter of a 
pound of sweet almonds, pounded to a paste 
with a little white wine, half a nutmeg grat- 
ed, a quaiter of an ounce of pepper, one 
head of cbve, and a littb cinnamon pound- 
ed; one pound and a half of fresh beef snet. 
finely minced, one pound of good brown so 
gar; mix all these ingredients extremely 
well, and add half a pint of white wine, and 
one glass of brandy. Pack it ckieely into 
small stone jars, and tie them over with pa- 
per. When it is to be used, add a little mora 
wine. 

PIES, MINCE. (2) Oit the root off a 
neat's tongue, rub the tongue well with saK, 
let it lie four days, wash it perfectW clean, 
and boil it till it beoonlkes tender ; skin, and 
when cold, chop it very finely. Mince as 
small as possible two pounds of fi^esh beef 
suet fi^m the sirloin, stone and cut small two 
pounds of bloom raisins, clean nicely two 
pounds of currants, pound and sift half an 
ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, grate a large nutmeg; mix all these 
ingredients thoroughly, together with one 
pound and a half of goc^ brown sugar. 
Pack it in jars. When it is to be used, al- 
low, for the quantity sufficient to make 
twelve small mince pies, five finely-minced 
apples, the grated rind and juice of a large 
lemon, and a wineglass and a half of brandy ; 
put into each a few bits of citron and pre- 
served orange-peel. Three or four whole 
green lemons, preserved in good brown su- 
gar, and cut into thin sKc^, may be added 
to the mince meat. 

PIES, BRANDY, MINCS. Oem » 



PIC 



142 



PIE 



pomid of comuits, minoe a pound of non- 
parail apples, and one of fresh beef miet; 
pound a pound of loaf sugar; weigh each 
article after being prepared ; tlie peel of two 
lemons grated, and the juice of one; a quar- 
ter of a pound of ciUx>n, the same of orange- 
peel minced. Mix all these ingi^edieats 
well with a quart of brandy. 

PIES, LEMON MINCE. Weigh one 
pound of fine large lemons, cut. them in half, 
■queeze out the juice, and pick the pulp from 
the skins; boil them in water till tender, 
and pound them in a mortar; add half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of 
nicely cleaned currants, and of fresh beef 
■uet minced, a little grated nutmeg, and 
citron cut small. Mix all tliese inffredients 
well, and fill the patty-pans with rauier mpre 
of the mince than is usually put. 

PIE, MUTTON OR VEAL. Cut into 
chops, and trim neatly, and cut away the 
greatest part of the &t of a loin, or best end 
of a neck of mutton (the former the best), 
season them, and lay them in a pie-dish, 
with a little water and half a gill of mush- 
room ketchup (chopped onion and potatoes, 
if approved) ; cover it with paste, bake it 
two hours ; when done, lift up the crust 6rom 
the dish with a knife, pour out all the eravy, 
let it stand, and skim it clean; add, if 
wanted, some more seasoning ; make it boil, 
and pour it into the pie. Veal pie may be 
made of the brisket part of the breast; but 
must be parboiled first. 

PIE, PIGEON OR LARK. Truss 
half a dozen fine lai^ pigeons as for stew- 
iug, season them witli pepper and salt ; lay 
at the bottom of die dish a rump-steak of 
about a pound weight, cut into pieces and 
trimmed neatly, seasoned, and b^t out widi 
a chopper: on it lay the pigeons, the volks 
of three e^^s boiled hard, and a giUof brotli 
<Mr water, and over these a layer of steaks; 
wet the edge of tlie dish, and cover it over 
with puff paste, or the paste as directed for 
seasoned pies; wash it over with yolk of 
egg, and ornament it with leaves of paste and 
the feet of the pigeoiui ; bake it an hour and 
a half in a moderate-heated oven : before it 
is sent to table make an aperture in the top, 
and pour in some good gravy quite hot. 

PIE, RAISED PORK. Make a rais- 
ed crust, of a good size, about four inches 
hip;h ; take the rind and chine bone from a 
lorn of pork, cut it into chops, beat them 
with a chopper, season them with pepper 
and salt, and fill your pie ; put on tiie top 
and close it, and pinch it round the edge; 
rub it over with yolk of egg, and bake it two 
)iuun with a paper over it, to pi-event the 



crust from burning. When done, poor m 
some good gravy, with a little ready-mixed 
mustard (if approved). N. B. — ^As the 
above is generally eaten cold, it is an excd- 
ksnt repast for a journey* and will keep for 
several days. 

PIE, POTATO. Peel and dice your 
potatoes very thin into a pie-dish ; between 
each layer of potatoes iNit a little chopped 
onion (diree-quarters otau ounce of <mioni8 
sufficient for a pound of potatoes) ; between 
each layer sprinkle a little pepper and sak; 
put in a little water, and cut about two 
ounces of firesh butter into little bits, and ]&y 
tiiem on die top: cover it close widi dud 
paste. It will take about an hour and a half 
to bake it. N. B. Tlie yolks of four eggs 
(boiled hard) may be added; and when 
baked, a table-spoonful of good mushixwm 
ketchup poured in through a funnel. Ob». — 
Cauliflowers divided mto mouthfiils, and 
button onions, seasoned with curry-powder, 
&c. make a favorite v^^etable pie. 

PIES, RAISED, MtJTTON OR 
PORK. Put two pounds and a half of flour 
on the paste-board ; and put on the fire, in a 
saucepan, three-<)uarter8 of a pint of water, 
and half a pound of good lard ; when the 
water boils, make a bole in the middle oi 
the flour, pour in the water and lard by de- 
grees, gently mixing the flour with it with 
a spoon ; and when it is well mixed, then 
knead it widi your liands till it becomes stiff; 
dredge a litUe flour to prevent its sticking to 
the roard, or you cannot make it look smooth : 
do not roll it with the rolling-pin, but roll it 
with your bands, about the thidcness of a 
quart pot ; cut it into six pieces, leaving a 
little for tlie covers; put one hand in die 
middle, and keep the oUier close on the oat- 
side tiU you have worked it either in an oval 
or a round shape: Imve your meat ready cut, 
and seasoned with pepper and salt: il* pork, 
cut in small slices ; tlie griskin is the best 
for pasties: if you use mutton, cut it in veiy 
neat cutlets, and put diem in die pies as \oa 
make diem ; roll out die covers with the 
rolling-pin just the size of die pie, wet it 
round die edge, put it on the pie, and pteai 
it together with your thumb and finger, and 
dien cut it all round with a pair of scisson 
quite even, and pinch them inside and out, 
and bake them an hour and a half. 

PIE, RAISED FRENC:H. Make 
about two pounds of flour into a paste ; knead 
it well, and into the shape of a ball ; press 
your thumb into the centre, and work it by 
degrees into any shape (oval or round is the 
most general), till about five indies high; 
put it on a sheet of paper, and fill it with 
coarse flour or bran; roll out a covering lir 



PIE 



143 



Pia 



k about tlie same thidmew as die sides; oe- 
neot its sides with the yolk of egg ; cut the 
edges quite even, and pinch it rovmd widi the 
finder and thumb, rub yolk of e^ over it with 
a paste-brurii, and ornament it in an^ way 
fiuicy may direct, with the same kind of 
paste. ]»ike it of a fine brown cok>r, in a 
riow oven ; and when done, cut out the top, 
remove the floor or bran, brush it quite 
dean, and fiU it up with a fricassee of chick- 
en, rabbit, or any other entree most conve- 
Seod it to table with a napkin 



PIE, HAM RAISED. Soak a smaD 
ham four or five hours; wash and scrape it 
well; ciit off the knuckle, and boil it for 
half aa hoar; then tak6 it up and trim it very 
neatly ; take off the rind and put it into an 
oval 8tev«rpan, with a pint of Madeira or 
Sherry, and enough veal stock to cover it^ 
Let it stew for two hours, or till three parts 
dose; take it out and set it in a cokl 
pkioe; then raise a crust as in the foregoing 
I receipt, large raoi^ to receive it; put in 
the ham, and round it the veal forcemeat; 
oever and ornament ; it will take about an 
hour and a half to bake in a slow oven: 
whoi done, take off the cover, glaze the top, 
and pour round the lblk>wing sauce, viz. take 
the liquor the ham was stewed in ; skim it 
tree from fiit ; thicken with a little fiour and 
batter mixed together; a few drops of brown- 
isg, and some cayenne pepper. 

PIE, SEA. Skin and cut into joints a 
herge fowl ; wash and lay it -into cokl water 
for an hour; cut some salt beef into thin 
slices, and if it is very salt, soak it a short 
time in water; make a paste of flour and 
batter in the proportion of half a pound of 
batter to one of flour, cut it into round pieces 
according to the size of the bottom of the 
pot in which the pie is to be stewed; rub 
with butter the bottom of a round iron pot, 
and lay in a layer of tlie beef, seasoned with 
pepper, and fiiiely-minced onion ; thai put a 
layer of the paste, and then the fowl, highly 
seasoned widi pepper, onion, and a Jittle 
salt ; add another layer of paste, and pour 
in three pints of cold water ; cover tlie pot 
cloeety, and let ii stew gently for neaily four 
hours, taking care it does not burn, wliich, 
if n^iected, it is apt to do. It is served in 
a padding dish, and answers well for a family 



PIE, SQUAB, OR DEVONSHIRE. 
Take a few good baking-apples, pare, core, 
and slice them; chop some onions very 
small ; line a deep dish with paste, put in a 
kyer of the apples, strew a little sv^r, and 
aome of the chopped onions over tliem ; sea- 
son them, and lay lean mutton ciiops, also 
seasoned, more onions, then the apples, &c. 



as 
full; 00^ 



and so on tifl thft dish k qoM 
>, and hake the pie. 



PIE, SQUASH. One pint of squashy 
stewed and strained; one pint of milk, and 
one of cream; teneggs; half teacup of rose- 
water; quarter pound of si^gar, and ona 
grated nutmeg. Bake in plates lined with 
puff paste. 

PIE, SWEETBREAD. Parboil fiva 
or six sweetbreads; cut them into two or 
three pieces, rtew them ten orfifleen minutes 
io a little white stock, with some chopped 
shallot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, i 



salt, and white pepper, and a good many 
mushrooms. Put them into a pi^ish, witn 
some asparagus tops, forcemeat bails, and 
hard-boikid yolks of eggs, and slices of fet 
bacon on the top; cover it, and bake it til 
the paste be done enough ; or it may be pat 
into a vol-au-vent, and served upon a nap- 
kin; or baked in a plate. 

PIE, VEGETABLE. Of a variety of 
vegetebles, such as carrots, turnips, pota- 
toes, articlioke bottoms, cauliflower, French 
beans, peas, and small button onions, equal 
quantities of each ; half boil them in good 
broth for a short time, put them into a pie 
dishycover it willi puff paste/and bake it in 
a slow oven ; make a gravy of a bit of veal, 
a slice of ham, pepper, salt, a bay leaf, mush- 
rooms, sliallots, parsley, and an onion ; when 
it ha^i boiled thick, strain the liquor, and mix 
in tliree or four tablenspoonfels of cream, and 
pour it into the pie before being served. The 
cream may be omitted. 

PIG, Is in prime order for tlie spit when 
about three weeks old. 

It loses part of its goodness every hour af* 
ter it is killed ; if not quite fresh, no art can 
make the crackling crisp. 

To be in perfection, it should be killed in 
tlie morning to be eaten at dinner: it requires 
very carefiiT roasting. A sucking-pig, like 
a young child, must not be left for an in- 
stent. 

Tlie ends must have much more fire than 
tlie middle: for this purpose is contrived an 
iron to hang before tlie middle part, called a 
pig-iron. If you have not this, use a com- 
mon fltu iron, or keep the fire fiercest at the 
two ends. 

For the stuffing, take of the crumb of a 

stale loaf about five ounces; rub it through a 

colander; mince fine a handfol of sage (». e, 

i about two ounces), and a large onion (about 

I an ounce and a half). Mix these together 

I with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit 

I of butter as big as an egg. FiU tlie belly of 

, die pig witli this, and sew it up: lay it to 

the tire, and baste it with salad oil till it is 



pia 



144 



PtQ 



Do not leaveit m momoDt: it 
hBaaim the mogt vigilartattODdaiioe* 

Roast it at a clear, brisk fire at some dis^ 
lBiioe« To gain the praise of cfMoorean pig- 
Mtera, the craoklinff must be nicely crisped 
ftod delicately lightly biowned« without be* 
hig either blistered or bymt* 

A snoall} three weeks old ^ig will be done 
enough in about an hour and a half. 

Before you take it from tlie fire, cot off the 
head, and part that and tlte body down the 
middle: cliop the brains very fine) with some 
boiled sage leaves, and mix them witli good 
veal ^vy, or beef gravy, or what runs from 
die pig wlien you out its head off* Send up 
a tureenful of grav^ besidest Currant sauce 
is still a favorite with some of the old school. 

Lay your piff back to back in the dish, 
with one half of tlie head on each side, and 
the ears one at edch end, which you must 
take care to make nice and crisp; or you 
will get sookted, and deservedFv, as the silly 
fellow WHS who bought bis wife a pig with 
only one ear. 

When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the 
dcin k>ng round the ends of the legs. When 
you first lay the pig before the fire, rub it all 
over with fresh butter or salad oil: ten 
minutes after, and the skin looks dry; 
dredge it well with floor all over, let it re- 
main on an hour, then rub it off with a soft 
etoth. 

N. B. A pig is a very troublesome subject 
to roast; most po'sons have diem baked. 
Send a quarter of a pound of butter, and beg 
the baker to baste it urell. 

PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, 
flour it well all over, then rub it over with 
butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put 
it into the oven. When done enoc^, take 
it out, and rub it over with a butter cloth ; 
then pot it again into the oven till it is dry, 
then take it out and lay it in a dish ; cut it 
up, take a little veal gravy, and take off the 
fat in the dish it was baked in, and there 
will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put 
that to the vesu gravy, with a little bit of but- 
ter, rolled in fluur; boil it up, and put it in 
a dish in which the pig has been laid, and 
put the brains with some sage into the belly. 
Some persons like a pig to be brought to 
table whole, in which case you are only to 
put what sauce you like into the dish. 

PIG, BARBICUED. Scald, fcc, a pig, 
of about nine or ten weeks old, the same as 
for roasting; make a stuffing with a few 
sage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two an- 
chovies boned, waslied, and cut extremely 
nnall ; put them into a mortar, with some 
bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
m very little cayenne pepper, and half a pint 
of Madeira wine; beat them to a paste, and 



seiriti](>mlfaepig; lajatatagooddiilaMt 
before a large biisk fire} singe it w^; prt 
two boules of Madeira wine info the dnp- 
ping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it 
isroastins; wlien half done, put two Picnch 
polls mto me drippingpao ; aadif tbereisnoC 



with an andiovy cut small, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take up the 
pig, send it to table with an apple in its 
mouth, and a roll on each side; then strain 
the sauce over it. 

Some barbioue a pig of six or seven weeks 
old, and stick it all over with biandied al- 
monds, and baste it in the same manner widi 
Madeira wine. 

PIG, TO OOLLAR. Out oflT the feet, 
head, and tail ; bone and wash it well, and 
dry it in a cloth. Season it hi||faly with • 
quantity of pepper and salt ; roll rt op Smfy, 
and bind it with a piece of linen ; sew if 
tightly. Put it on in boiling water, with the 
bones, let it boil for an liour, then pot it ai- 
der a weight to press till it be cold, and take 
off the cloth. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO COLLAR. Strew 
over a pig*s fiiGe,and a neat's or pig's ton^, 
a little salt and saltpetre; let it stand eight 
or nine days, then boil them with two cow- 
heels, till all be sufficiently tender to admit 
of the bones being taken out; lay upon a 
di^ a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek 
upon it with the rind downwards ; season it 
higlily with pepper, cloves, and a little salt; 
add the tongue and oow-heek, with more 
seasoning ; roll and sew it up firmly, pot it 
into a jar and boil it for two hours, then 
press it with a lieavy weight, and when ooU 
take off the cloth. The cow-heel may be 
omitted, and both cheeks used. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO CURE. Strew 
salt over it, and let it lie two or three days, 
then pour over it the following mixture when 
it is cold ; half a pound of Imy salt, half an 
ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of 
coarse brown sugar, one handful of oonunos 
salt, and a penny-worth of cochineal, boiled 
in a pint of stronj^ beer or porter; let it lie 
in the pickle a fortnight, turning it daily, 
then hang it to smoke for a we^. When 
to be dre^ed, put it into lukewarm water to 
soak for a night, and in dressing it, foHov 
the dire^ions given for boiling bams. 

PIG'S ("EET AND EARS PICKLED. 

Wash the feet and ears very clean, and be- 
tween every foot put a bay-ieaf ; when they 
are well soaked, add some cloves, maoe, c»> 
riandernned, awl ginger; pot a bottfe of 



PIG 



145 



PIG 



wliite wine to three pair of feet and can, 
aome bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs; 
let iheun boil gently till they are tender, then 
take them out of the liquor, lay them in on 
earthen pan; when Cold, take off the &t, 
and Mnan the liqueur over tliem. Tliey eat 
well cold, or wanned in the jelly, thickened 
with batter rolled in flour ; or take the feet and 
ears oat of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, 
and then in crurabe of bread, and broil them, 
4ir firy them io butter; lay the ears in the 
middle^ and the feet round : or ragout them. 

PIG'S FEET AND EAR3 SOUSED. 

C3ean them, and boil them till they are ten- 
der; then split tlte feet, and put them and 
the ears in salt and water. When you use 
them, dry them well in a cloth, dip Uiem in 
batter, fry them, and send them to table with 
melted butter in a boat. They may be eaten 
cold, and will keep a considerable time. 

PIG'S FEET, TO STEW. Cfeanthem 
well, and boil them till tliey are tender. 
Brown some butter with flour, and add it to 
a quantity of ^ravy or water sufficient to 
atew the feet in.. Season with a minced 
onion, three sage leaves, salt, and black pep- 
per« Cut the feet in two, add them, and 
eover the pan closely; let diem stew lialf an 
hoar. A little belbre serving, mix in lialf 
a table-6po<>nful of lemon pickle or vin^ar, 
and pick out the sage leaves. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (1) Parboil the liver 
and lights, slice and fry tlicra aloDg with tliin 
bits of bacon. Crarnidh witii fried parsley. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (2) Wash and di-y 
aome livers, sweerbreadii, and some fat and 
lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with 
a rolling-pin to makt^ tliem tender; season 
with pepfjer, salt, and sage, and a little onion 
shredded tine ; when mixed, put all into a 
cawl, and festen it tight with a needle and 
thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. 
Or, serve in slices,, with parsley, for a fry. 
Set ve with a sauce of Port wine and water, 
and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into 
adiefa. 

PIG'S HEAD COLLARED. Very 
nicely acour the head ai.d ears ; take off" tlie 
hair and snout, and take out tlie eyes and 
brain ; let it lay for one night ia water ; then 
drain it; salt it extremely well, with com- 
moQ salt and saltpetre, and let it lie for five 
days. Boil it suflicientlv to take out the 
bonea; then lay it on a dresser, turning tlie 
thick end of one side of tlie head towards die 
thick end of tlie other, to make the roll of an 
equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and 
white pepper, and roll it with the ears; and, 
if you think proper, put the pig^s feet round 
13 



the outside, wiien boned, or the thin patti 
of a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cbth, 
bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite 
tender ; Uien put it under a weight, and do 
not take off tlie covering until it is quite cold. 
If you wish it to be mora like brawu, salt it 
loi^r, and let the proportion of saltpetre be 
greater, and put in also some pieces of lean 
pork, and then cover it wiUi cow-heel, lo 
look like the horn. This may be kept eillier 
in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled 
with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry 
it, eidier with or without batter. 

PIG'S HEATS, TO POT. Split the 
head of a small pi^, take out tlie brains, cat 
ofl* die ears, and let it lie in cold water for 
one day, then boil it till all die bones come 
out; take off the skin, keeping it as wliole 
as possible. Cliop the tongue and all the 
meat while it is hot; season it highly with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg { place part of die 
skin at tlie bottom of a potting-pan or bowl, 
lay in llie chopped meat, and put the rest <^ 
the skin over the top; pi^ess it down hard, 
place a small plate upon it, put on Uiat a 
lieavy weight, which musfnotbe taken off 
till it be perfectly cold. Boil up part of the 
liquor with some vinegar and salt, and keep ■ 
the iiead in this pickle. It may be served 
for breakfa.st or luncheon, and is eaten widi 
viuegui' and mustard. 

PIG'S HEAD AND FEET, SOUSED. 

Clean them extremely well anti boil diem; 
take fur sauce part of tlie liquor, and add 
vinegar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, 
and ))ep(x;r; put in, cither cut down or 
whole, tiie head and feet ; boil all togedier 
ii)r an liour, and ()our it into a deep dish. 
It is eaten cold wiUi mustard and vinegar. 

PIG'S KIDNEYS, AND SKIRTS. 

Clean and wash them very nicely, cut tiie 
kidneys across, and tlie skirts into small 
square bits; fry Uieni a light brown in beef 
dripping, brown a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, wiUi a little flour, and add as much 
boiling water as may be required of gravy, 
and an onion minced small. Add the meat, 
a little pepper, salt, and mushroom ketchup, 
and let it stew till tender. 

PIGEONS. Pigeons should be exUieme- 
ly fresh ; when so, and in good order, they 
are plump and fat at tlie vent, and Uieir feet 
pliable; but wlien diey are stale, the vent is 
open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons 
are considered preferable to die wild. 

PIGEONS WHOLE, TO BROIL. 

Clean Uiem well, cut off die wings and neck, 
leaving skin enough at the neck to tie ; make 
a forcemeat with bread crumbs, three or feur 



ii?r 



PIO 



146 



t>IS 



of the livers, one anchovy, sOme parsley 
minoed, and a quarter of a pound of butter; 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
bind it with the yolk of an egg lieaten up* and 
put into each pigeon a piece the size of a large 
walnut; tie tlK nock and rump, rub them 
witli butter, and dust them with pepi)er, salt, 
and nutmeg mixed ; broil them over a sbw 
fire ; to baste them, pot them upon a plate, 
and with a feather bnish tliem over with but- 
ter; broil them of a nice brown color; sei*ve 
them with melted butter and paHsley, or a 
thickened brown gravy. 

PIGEON PIE. Chop some parsley and 
lemon thyme, with a few mushrooms ; stew 
these in a little butler, into which put half a 
dozen ^oung pigeons, with pepper and salt 
in their insides, and their legs turned in; 
stew tliem for a few minutes and turn tliem ; 
when lliey Ibegin t^ fry, put in sufficient con- 
§omm« to covet* them, in which let tliem stew 
till they are well done ; take them from the 
fire to cool ; in the meantime make a good 
puflf paste, part %f which roll out, and place 
round the edge oT a dish ; lay the pigeons in 
with th« yol^orfour eggs, boiled hard, and 
pour over tliem half of the li(|Uor tliey were 
stewed in ; add a little pepper and salt, then 
lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly 
round, the same as you would any oth^ pie ; 
on the top form a star of leaves, with a hole 
in the centre ; e^g it liglitly over, and put it 
to bake in a moderate oven, taking care tliat 
h lias not too much color ; when done, add 
to the liquor that remained from the pigeons, 
a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and 
pour it on the pic. Serve it hot, either for 
a remove or side didi. 

PIGEONS WITH RICE and Par- 
mesan- Cheese. Pick and wash clean 
liatf a dozen nice pigeons, cut them into Quar- 
ters; brown some butter with flour, add to 
it a pint of good stock, with three grated 
onions, some pepper and salt, stew tlie pig- 
eoiis in this till tender, take them out and 
mix in the juice o{ one lemon, boil and strain 
the sauce over die pigeons. Boil about thi^ee- 
quarters of a pound of whole rice in a pint 
and a half of slock, with half a pound of fresh 
butter, some grated nutm^ and salt ; when 
it is lender, add two handfuls of grated Par- 
Boesan cheese. Put more than h%lf of the 
rice equallv round the dish in which tlie pig- 
eons are pmced, and cover them with what 
remains, brush it over with a well-beaten 
egg, and tlien strew it tliickly with more 
Parmesan ; cover a flat baking-tin with salt, 
place the disli upon this, and bake it for nearly 
three-quarters of an hour in ai slow oven ; it 
should be of a fine gold color. 

PIGEONS, TO ROAST. Pick, clean. 



singe, and wash them well ; truss them with 
three feet on, and put into Uiem some pepper 
and salt. While roasting, baste them wi& 
butter. A little before serving, dust them 
widi flour, and froth them with bmter. 
Roast them for half an hour. Serve then 
with pantl^ and butler in the dish, or noake 
a gravy of the giblets, some minceid parslej, 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Thicken 
with a little flour and butter; pour it with 
the giblets into the dish, and then put io the 
pigeons. 



PIGEONS, STEW. (I) dean t 
1^, truss them as for boiling, put into their i»- 
sidesome pepper and salt ; brown in a sanoe- 
pan three ounces of butter with a table-epooB- 
ful of flour, add as much gravy or wat«r as will 
nearly eover the pigeons, put them in with 
Uie livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and 
some minceid parsley, spinach may also be 
added ; let them stew for three-quiuiera of 
an hour; add, a few minutes before serving, 
the yolkis of foor or six hard-boiled eggs. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (2) Wash and denn 
six pigeons, cut them into quartera, and pot 
all Uieir giblets with tliem into a stewpan, a 
piece (^buttar,a little water, a bit of iemoo- 
peel, two blades of maoe, some chopped pars- 
ley, salt, and pepper; cover the pan cloeely, 
and stew tliem till tliey be lender; thicken 
llie sauce witli the yolk of an egg beiUen n 
witli three table-spoonfiils of cream and a ba 
of butter dusted with flour; let them stew 
ten minutes longer before 8er\'ii^. 

PIKE, BAKED. Scrape the scales off 
a large pike, take out the gills, and cleaki it, 
without breaking the skin; stuflf tlie fish 
with a forcemeat made of two handfuls of 
grated bread, one of finely-minced suet, some 
chopped parsley, and a little fresh butlsr, 
seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, giTited 
leinon-peel and a nutmeg, pounded all togeth- 
er in a mortar, with two w^le eggs. Fasten 
the tail of the pike into its mouth with a 
skewer, tlien dip it, firat into a well-beatco 
egg, and tlien into grated bread, wliich repeat 
twice; baste it over with butter, and bake 
it in an oven. 

If two of them are to be served, make one 



of diem of a green coIcnt, by mixing a qoan- 
tity of finely-minced paraley with the grated 
bi^ad. When the rah is of a fine brown 



color, cover it with paper until it b done. 
Serve witli a Dutch sauce in a sauce-tureen. 

PIKE, BOILED. Wash clean, and 
take out tlie gills; stuff them with tlie follow- 
ing forcemeat : equal parts of cliopped oys- 
ters, grated bread crumbs, beef suet, or butter, 
two anchovies, a little onion, pepper, ssk, 
nutmeg, minced parsley, sweet marjoram, 



POl 



147 



P OR 



ikyvoBj and satory; an eggtobind it. Stuff 
tbie insides, and sew tbem up; put them on 
in boiling salt-and- water, with a gian of vin- 
egar, and let them boil half an hour. Saaoe« ; 
— oyster, and meited butter. They may 
also be broiled. 

PILLAU, TO MAKE. Wash very 
dean two pounds of rioe, stew it till per- 
fectly tender with a little water, haU* a 
pound of butter, some salt, whole pepper, 
cloves aod mace, and kfeep the stewp^n 
ckwelv covei'ed; boil two fowls and one 
pound and a lialf of bacon, put the bacon in 
the middle, and the fiiwls on each side, cov- 
er tbem all over with the rice, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and fried whole 



PLOVERS, TO CHOOSE. Choose 
them by the hardi^'^ of the vent, which 
shows that they are &t; and when new, 
they are limber-fuoted. In other respects, 
choose them by the same marks as other 
fewb. There are three sorts; the gray, 
green, and bastard plover or lapwing. 

PLOVERS, TO DRESS. Green plov- 
ers should be dressed the same as wood- 
cocks, without drawing, anil served on a 
toast. Gray plovers shouM l>e stewed. — 
Make a f >rcemeat with the yolks of two 
hard ^gs bruised, some marrow cut fine, 
artichoke bottoms cut small, and sweet 
herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg: stuff the birds, and put thera into a 
saucepan, with just a sufficient quantity of 
good gravy to cover tbem, one glass of 
white wine, and a blade of mace; cover 
diem close, and let them stew very gently 
till they are tender; then take up the plov- 
ers, lay tliem in a dish, keep them hot ; put 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, to thicken, 
die sauce, let it boil till smoodi; squeeze 
into it a little lemon ; skim it, and pour it 
over the plovers. 

POINT DE JOUR FRITTERS. Mix 
with two handfuls of flour a glass of sweet 
wine, a table-spoonful of brandy, and warm 
milk, sufficient to make it into a paste ; add 
the well-beaten whites of four eggs, a little 
minced citron, candied orange-peel or cur- 
rants; beat it well together, and drop it 
dirough a wide tin funnel, into boiling lard. 
Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed over 
Uiem. 

POIVRADE. Put into a stewpan a 
large bunch of parsley-leaves, some scalHons, 
two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a dessert- 
noonful of fine 'vhite pepper, a glass of 
Tin^ar, and a small quantity of butter; set 
die pan on the fire, and reduce the whole 



till nearly ail gone, when add two ladleibii 
of e^Mtgnole, and one of stock; reduoe 
these again to the proper coosisteiioe, and 
strain it fx use. 

PORK. Dairt-fsd pork is t^ best; 
the flesli shoukl k>ok white and smooth, and 
the fiit be white and fine. In preparing a 
hog for bacon, the ribs are cut, with a verv 
little flesh on them, from the side, which 
has the fore and hind leg attached to it; 
the hind leg is then called a gammon of b»- 
con, but it is generally reserved for a ham. 
On each side there is a large spare rib, 
which is usually dii^d«d into two, one call- 
ed the sweet bone, the other the Made braie. 
There are also griskins, chine, or back 
bone. 

Hog's lard is the inner fiit of tfa^ booon 
hog. 

Porkeiii are not so old as ly9gB;^they 
make excellent pickled pofk, but are cho- 
sen more particularly for roasting. 

To roast a leg, a small onion is minced 
toother with three sage leaves, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and put under the 
akin at the knuckle bone ; the Skin is out 
into strips nearly ha.'f an inch apart, and 
rubbed over with a bit of butter. If wCli^- 
ing seveu or eight pounds, it will require 
nearly three hours to roast. 

A spare rib should be roasted, is basted 
with butter, and has sage leaves dried, ni>>> 
bed to a powder, and mixed with salt and 
pepper, spiinkled over it. 

Both a loin and neck are jointed, the 
skin scored in narrow strips, and rubbed 
witl) butter. If weighing six or seven 
pounds, it will require rather more than two 
hours to roast. 

A griskin may be either broiled or roast- 
ed. 

A chine is stufled here and there with 
bread crumbs, mixed with a little butter, 
and seasoned with some finely shred sage, 
parsley, suid thyme, some pepper and salt. 
The skin is cut into strips and rubbed with 
butter; it is then roasted, and served with 
apple sauce, as ai-e also the preceding 
roasts. 

A porker's head is stuffed like a sucking 
pig, sewed firmly, and hung on a string to 
roast. 

The shoulder may be roasted, but, being 
very fiit,.it is generally preferred pickled. 

The breast may be made into a pie, or 
broiled. 

To boil hams, they should be put on in 
water, the chill taken off, and simmered for 
four or five hours, taking care not to allow 
them to boil. 

The prime season for pork is fixMn No- 
vember to March. 

Take particular care it be done enough: 



FOR 



148 



FOR 



other meats under-done are uopleaBant, bat 
pork is absolutely uneatable ; the sight of it 
IS enough to appal the sharpest appetite, if 
its gravy has the least tint of redness. 

Be careiui of the crackling ; if this be 
not crisp, or if it lie burned, you will be 
scolded. Pickled Pork, takes more time 
than any other meat. If you buy your pork 
i^eady salted, ask how many days it has 
been in salt; if many, it will require to be 
soaked in water for six hours before you 
dress it. When yon -cook it, wash and 
scrape it as clean as possible; when deli- 
cately dressed, it is a ^vorite dish with al- 
most everybody. Take' care it does not 
boil fast; if it does, tlie knuckle will break 
to pieces, before the thick part of tlie meaf 
is warm through; a leg of seven pounds 
takes lliree hours nnd a half very slow sim- 
mering. Skim your pot very carefully, and 
wlien .you take the meat out of the boiler, 
scmpe it clean. 

A leg of nice pork, nicely salted, and 
nicely boiled, is as fine a cold relish as cold 
ham; especially if, instead of cutting into 
tl)e middle when hot, and so letting out 
its juices, you cut it at tlie knuckle: slices 
broiled are a good hiiicheon, or supper. 

Mem. — Some persons who sell pork ready 
RHked have asilly trick of cutting the knuc- 
kle in two; we suppose that tliis is done to 
save their salt ; but it lets all the gravy out 
of the leg; and unless you boil your pork 
merely for the Sidce of the pot-liquor, which 
in this cose receives all the goodness and 
strength of tlie meat, friendly reader, your 
oracle cautions you to buy no leg of pork 
which is slit at die knuckle. 

If pork is not done enough, nothing is more 
ditiHgreeablc ; if too much, it not only loses 
its color and flavor, but its substance be- 
comes soft like a jelly. 

it must never appear at table without pars- 
nips; they aie an excellent vegetable, and 
deserve to Ije much moi-e popular ; or carrots, 
turnips, and greens, or ma»lied potatoes, &c. 

Obs. — Keiuembei' not to forget the inus- 
turd-poi. 

PORK, LEG, Of eight pound*., will re- 
quire about three boui-s : score tlie skins across 
in narrow stripes (some score it in dia- 
monds), about a t^uarter of an inch apart; 
stuff the knuckle with sage and onion, minced 
fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned widi 
pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. 

Do not put it too near the fire : rub a little 
sweet oil on the skin witli a paste-bhish, or 
a goose-feather: this makes the crackling 
crisper and browner than basting it with 
dripping; and it will be a better color tlian 
all the art of cookery can make it in any 
other way ; and this is the best way of pre- 



venting the skin from Mistering^ wfakA m 
principally occasioned by its b^Dg put too 
near the &re. 

PORK Spare Rib, UsoalKr weiglw aboot 
eight or nine pounds, and will take from two 
to three hours to roost it thoroughly ; not ex- 
actly according to its weight, but thie thick- 
ness of the meat upon it which variea veiy 
much. Lay the thick end nearesC to the 
fire. 

A proper bald spare rib of eight poonds 
weight (so called because almoet all the meat 
is pared off), with a steady fire, will be done 
in an hour uid a quarter. There is so little 
meat on a bald spare rib, that if you have a 
large, fierce file, it wiU be burned befi>re it 
is warm through. Joint it nicely, and craclr 
the ribs across as ^ou do ribs of lamb. 

Wlien you pot it down to roast, duet o j 
some fiour, and baste it with a little butter ; 
dry u dozen sage leaves, and rub them throogfa 
a hair-sieve, and put them into the top oi a 
di-edging-box ; ana about a quarter <^ an hour 
before the meat is done, baste it with butter ; 
dust ^ith the pulv^ized sage* 

Obs. — ^Make it a general rule never to 
pour gra«7 over any thing that is roasted ; 
by so doing, the dredging, &c. is washed off'^ 
and it eats in&ipid. 

Some people carve a spare rib by cuttiiw 
out in slic&i ihr^ thick part at the bottcnn of 
the bones. Wiien this meat is cut away, 
the bones may be easily separated, and are 
esteemed very sweet pi'^king. 

Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good 
mustard are indispensable. 

PORK CHEESE. Choose the head of 
a small pig which may weigh about twelve 
pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it and 
the tongues of four pigs, a little common salt 
aud a very little sahpetre. Let them lie 
four days, wash them, and tie tliein in a clean 
cloth ; boil them imtil the bones will couie 
easily out of the head, take off the skin as 
whole as possible, place a bowl in hot water 
and put in the head, cutting it into Small 
pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped 
like a small cheese, lay two strips of ckiih 
across each other, they mw«t be long enoi^ 
to fold ovei' tlie top when the sliape is fi^, 
place the skin round the tin, and nearly half 
fill it with the meat, which has been highly 
seasoned with pepper, cayenne and sak ; put 
in some tongue out into slices, then the rest of 
the meat and the remainder of the tongue, 
draw the cloth tightly across the top ; put on 
it a board or a plate that will fit into the sh^ie, 
and place on it a heavy weight, which must 
not be taken off till it be quite cold. Itii 
eaten with vinegar and mustai'd, and senvd 
for luncheon or supper. 



POT 



149 



POT 



POTATOeS. The vegetable kingdom 
affbrds no food more wbolemoie, more easily 
procured, easily prepared, or leas expensive, 
tkm the potato : yet, althoogh this most usefiil 
vegetable is drosed almost every day, in 
almost every femily, for one pbte of potatoes 
dat comes to table as it Bfaoaldoome» ten are 
spoiled. 

Wash diem, bat do not pare or cot them, 
onleas they are very large. Fill a saiiwipan 
half fuH of potatoes of eqoal si» (or make 
diem so by dividinn^ the larger ones), put to 
them as mocfa cold water as will coverthem 
about an inch: they are sooner boiled, and 
BKMre savory, than when drowned in water. 
Most boiled things are spoiled by having too 
little water, but potatoes are often spoiled by 
loo much : they must merd^ be covered^and 
a tittle albwed for waste m boiling, so that 
tli^ may be just covered at the finuh. 

Set them on a moderate ih« till thev boil ; 
then take them off, and put them by the side 
of the fire to sinuner slowly till thc^ are soft 
enough to admit a fork (place no dependence 
on the usual test of their skine^ cracking, 
which, if they are boiled last, will happen to 
some potatoes when they are not half done, and 
the insides quite hard), llien pour the wa- 
ter oiT (if you let the potatoes remain in the 
water a moment after they are done enough, 
they will become waxy and watery), uncover 
the saucepan, and set it at such a distance 
from the fire as wilt secure it (ran burning; 
their superfluous moisture will evaporate, and 
the potatoes will be peifoctly dry and mealy. 

You may afterward place a napkin, folded 
op to tlie siise of tlie saucepan's diameter, 
over the potatoes, to keep them hot and 
mealy till wanted. 

This method of managing potatoes is in 
every respect eqpai to steaming them ; and 
they are dressed in half the time. 

iliere is such an infinite variety of sorts 
and sizes of potatoes, that it is impossible to 
my how long they will take doing: the best 
way is to try them with a fork. Moderate- 
siied potatoes will generally be done enough 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

POTATOES, NEW. The best way to 
clean new potatoes is to rub then with a 
coarse cloth or flannel, or scrubbing-brush. 

New potatoes are poor, watery, and insip- 
id, till they are foil two indies in diameter: 
th^ are mH worth the troable of |]oi«iig lie- 
fore midsummo* day. 

■Obs. Some cooks prepare nances to pour 
onr potatoes, made with butter, salt, and 
pqiper, or grayy, or melted butter and ketch* 
up; or stew the potatoes in ale, or wat» 
ieasoned with pepper and salt; or bake titem 
with herrings or sprats, mixed with layers 
of potatoes, seasoned with pepper, salt, sweet 
herbs. Tin^ar, and water; or cot mutton or 
13* 



beef into dices, and lay them in a stewpaa, 
and on them potatoes and spices, then anoth- 
er kyer of the meat alternately, pouring m 
a little water, covering it up very close, and 
tioiling it slowly. 



POTATO BALLS. Mix mashed pota- 
toes with the yolk of an egg ; roll them into 
balls; flour them, or egg and bread-cnimb 
them ; and firy them in clean drippings, or 
brown them in a Dutch oven. 

POTATO BALLS RA(50UT, Are 
made by adding to a pound of potatoes a 
quarter of a pound of grated ham, or some 
sweet herbs, or chopped parsley, an onion or 
eschalot, salt, pepper, and a little grated 
notm^, or other spice, with the yolk of a 
couple of ^EgR : they are then to be dneeed 
as Potato £lk. 

06t. An agreeable vegetable relish, and 
a good supper<4lish. 

POTATOES BOILED, TO BROIL. 
After boiling potatoes not quite sufficiently to 
send to tabfe, put them on a gridiron over a 
clear fire, and turn them firequently till they are 
of a nice fcirown color all over ; serve theia 
hot ; take care they do aot become too hard, 
as that spoils the flavor. 

POTATOES, CASSEROLE. BoU and 
fjeel some ^ood mealy potatoes, pound them, 
and mix with them some butter, cream, and 
a little salt, pot them about an inch and a 
half high upon a flat dish, and leave an open- 
ing in the centre ^ bake them of a liglit brown 
color, and take out as much from the centi-e 
as will admit ofa ragout, f icassee, or mac- 
aroni, being put into it. 

POTATOES,. OOLCANNON. BoU 

potatoes and greens,. or spinage, separately; 
mash the potatoes ^ squeeze tlie greens dry ; 
chop them quite fine and mix them with tlie 
potatoes, with a httle butter, pepper, and 
salt ; pot it into a mould, buttering it well 
firsts let it stand in a hot oven for ten min- 
utes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. When 
boiled and peeled, allow four lar^ mealy 
potatoes, half their weight of butter and of 
potmded loaf sugar, two eggs lieaten, half 
the grated peel ofa kuivm, and a little salt; 
pound tlie potatoes in a mortar widi the 
other ingredients; beat the yolks of four 
eggs; roll up the croquettes; dip them into 
the beaten eggs, and roll them in sifted bread 
ccombs; in an hour, roll them again as be- 
fore, aiKl fr^ them in butter; put them upon 
the back ot a sieve tiefore the fire to drain. 

POTATO EGCMS. 



POT 



150 



POT 



Mliooth six or seven boiled potatoes, add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, the bea- 
ten yolk of an egg, half an onion pounded, 
a little boiled minced paraley, some (lepper 
and salt; make it into rhe form of small 
^g8 or pears, roil them into a well-beaten 
egg, and then into grated bread seasoned, 
with pepper and salt ; fry them in. plenty of 
lard or dripping till they are of a fine brown 
color, lay them before the fire to drain; 
serve tbam with a fringe of fried parsley. 

POTATOES FRIED IN SLICES 
OR RIBBONS. Peel large potatoes; slice 
them about a quarter of an inch thick, or 
cut them in shavings round and round, as 
you would peel a lemon ; dry them well in a 
clean cloth, and fry them in Wd or dripping. 
Take care that your &t and frying-pan are 
quite clean ; put it on a quick fire, watch it, 
and as soon as the lard boils, and is still, 
put in the slices of potato, and keep moving 
them till they are crisp. Take them up, 
and lay them to drain on a sie^'e : send them 
op witL a very little salt sprinkled over them. 

POTATOES FRIED WHOLE. When 
nearly boiled enough, put tliem into a stew- 
pan with a bit of nutter, or some nice clean 
beef-dripping ; shake them about often <for 
fear of burning them), till they are brown 
and crisp ; drain them from the (iit. Oba. — 
It will be an elej^ant improvement previous 
to frying or broiling the potatoes, to fltHir 
them and dip them in the yolk of an egg, 
and then roll them in fine-sifted bread- 
cmmfafl ; they will then deserve to be called 

POTATOES rVLL DRESSED. 

POTATOES RAW OR COLD, TO 
FRY. Wash, peel, and put them into cold 
water for one or two hours, cot them into 
slices about half an inch thick, and fry them 
a light brown in boiling daiified beef suet. 
Cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices, may be 
done in the same manner. 

POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and 

pound in a mortar, six mealy potatoes, with 
a little salt, a glass of white wine, Bome 
pounded sugar, cinnamon, and an ounce of 
butter; )*uli it out witli a little flour, cut 
tliem the size of a wine glass, and firy tliem 
in boiling clarified dripping. Serve them 
with siftM loaf sugar over them. 

pa* ATOES, MASHED. (I) When 
your potatoes are thoroughly boiled, drain 
them quite dry, pick out evei^ speck, fee. and 
while hot, rub them througii a colander into 
a clean stewpan. To a pound of potatoes 
put about half an ounce of butter, and a ta- 
ole-spoonful of milk: do not make them too 
moiat; mix tbem well together. 06t. — 



When the potatoes are getting old oh! 
specky, and in frosty weather, this is tiw 
best way of dressing them. You may pot 
them into sha|«es or small tea-cups; egg 
them with yolk of ^^, and brown tbem very 
slightly before a skw fire. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (2) BoU the 
potatoes, peel and mash them \'ery smoothly ; 
put for a large dijuh four ounces of butter, 
two eggs beat up in half a pint of good milk, 
and some salt; mix thetn well together, 
heap it npon a dish with a tablensfwcMi to 
give it a rough and rocky appearauce, or 
put it on a dii^ and score it with a knife, 
dip a brush or feather into melted butter, 
and brush over the top lightly ; put it into 
a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually 
for an hour or mcMre. To mash potatoes in 
a plain way, mix with them two ounces of 
butter, hair a pint of milk, and a little salt. 
When mashed potatoes are not browned, it 
is a great improvement to add pepper, salt, 
and one onion minced as finely as possible; 
heat the potatoes in a saucepan, and serve 
them hot. 

POTATOES, ROASTED. Wash and 
dry your potatoes, (all of a size), and put 
them in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese-toaster: 
take care not to put tliem too near the fire, 
or tliey will get burned on tlie outside be^xie 
they are warmed through. Large potatoes 
will require two hours to roast them. 
N. B. To save time and trouble, some 
cooks half boil them first. This is one of 
the best opportunities the baker has to 
rival the cook. 

POTATOES ROASTED UNDER 
MEAT. Half boil large potatoes, drain the 
water from them, and put them into an earth- 
en dish, or small tin pan, under meat that is 
roasting, and baste them with some oi the 
dripping: when they are browned on one 
side, turn them and brown the other ; send 
them up round the meat, or in a small dish. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED. Mashpo- 
tatoes as directed, tlien butter some nice 
clean scollop-shells, patty-pans, or tea-cups 
or saucers; put in your potatoes; make 
tliem smooth at the top; cross a knife over 
them; strew a few nne bread-crumbs on 
them: «pr inkle them with a paste-bnigh 
with a few dro])8 of melted butter, and thea 
set them in a Dutch oven ; when tb^ are 
browned on the top, take them carefiiUy out 
o{ the shells, and brown the other side. 

POTATO SNOW. The potatoes mmt 
be free fitim spots, and the whitest you cas 
pick out ; put them on in cold water; when 
they begin to crack, atraio the water from 



POT 



151 



POO 



thrns and pot lliem into a clean ttewpui by 
the side of the fire till they are quite dry, 
and (all to pieces; rub them through a wire 
neve on the dish they are to be sent up in, 
and do not distnrb tlion afterward. 

POT POURRI. Gather, when perfect- 
1^ dry, a peck of roses; pick off the leaves, 
and strew over them tnree-quartera of a 
peond of eommon salt; let them remain 
two or three days, and if any fresh flowers 
ore added, stnne more salt should be sprin- 
kled over them. Mix with the roses half a 
poond of finely-pounded bay salt, the same 
qoantity of allspice, of ck>ves, and of brovra 
si^iar, a quarter of a pound of gum-benia- 
min, and, two ounces of orris-root; add a 
dass of brandy, and any sort of fragrant 
flower, such as orange and lemon flowers, 
rosemary, and a ^reat quantity of lavender 
flow e rs abo white lilies: a green orange 
stuck with cloves may be ad<ted. All the 
flowera most be gathered perfecdy dry. 

POTTING BEEF, VEAL, GAME, or 
POULTRY. Take three pounds of lean 
gravy beef, rub it well witn an ounce of 
saltpetre, and then a handfiil of common 
sak; let it lie in salt for a couple of days, 
rubbing it well each day; then put it into 
an earthen pan or stone jar that will just 
hold it; cover it with tlie skin and fat that 
you cut off, and pour in half a pint of wa- 
ter; cover it close with paste, and set it in 
a very slow oven for about four hours. 

When it comes fi*om the oven, drain the 
gravy from it into a bosin ; pick out the gris- 
tles and the skins; mince it fine; moisten it 
with a little of the gravy you poured from 
the meat, which is a very stronff consomme 
(but rather salt), and it will make excellent 
pease soup, or brownings pound the meat 
patiently and thoroughly in a mortar with 
s<Mne fresh butter, till it is a fine paste (to 
make potted meat smooth there is nothing 
equal to plen^ of elbow-grease) ; seasoning 
it by d^^rees, as you are beating it, with 
a little bkick pepper and allspice, or cloves 
pounded, or mace, or grated natm^. 

Put it in pots, press it down as close as 
possible, and cover it a quarter of an inch 
thick with clarified butter; and if vou wish 
to preserve it a k>ng time, over that tie a 
bladder. Keep it in a dry place. 

You may mince a little ham or baeon, or 
an ancliovy, sweet or savory herbs, or an 
esdudot, and a little tarragon, chervil, or 
bomet, &c., and pound them witli tlie meat, 
with a glass o{ wine, or some mustard, or 
Ibroemeat. 

It is a very agreeable and economical 
way of using the rraiains of game or poul- 
try, or a argjd joint of eit&r roasted or 
boiled beef, veal, ham, or tongue, &c. to 



mince it with some of the fat, or moisten 
it with a little butter, and beat it in a moT* 
tar with tlie seasoning, &c. 

Meat that has been boiled down for 
gravies, &c. (which has heretofore been 
considered the pen^uisite of the cat) and if 
completely drained of all its succulence, beat 
in a mortar with sak and a little ground 
black pef^iier and allspice, as directed in 
the foregoing receipt, and it will make as 
good potted Ijcef as meat that has been 
baked till its moisture is entirely extracted, 
which it must be, or it will not keep two 
days. 

Mkx. — Meat that has not been previous- 
ly salted, will not keep so long as that 
which has. 

POULTRY. In choosing a turkey, the 
voung cock bird is to be preferred ; tlie best 
have black legs, and if young, the toes and 
bill are pliable and feel soft. A hen turkey 
is diosen by the Bam€ rules. 

Fowls with black legs are the best; if 
fresh, the vent is close and dark ; if young, 
the combs are bi'iglit in the color, and the 
legs smooth — the spurs of a young cock are 
slK>rt. 

A goose, if young and fine, is plump in 
the breast, the fot white and sofl, the feet 
yellow, and but few hairs upon them. 

Ducks may be chosen by tlie same rules, 
and are hard and thick on the breast and 
belly. 

Pigeons shouM be quite fresh, the breast 
plump and fat, the feet elastic, and neither 
flabby nor discolored at tlie vent. 

To prepare a turkev for dressing, every 
plw is carefully picked out ; and in drawing 
turkeys and fowls, care must be taken not 
to break the gall ba^, nor the gut which 
joins the gizzard, as it is impossible to re- 
move the bitterness of the one, or the gritti- 
ness of the other. The hairs are Bmged off 
with white paper; the leg-bone is broken 
close to the foot, and tlie sinews drawn out 
— a cloth is then put over die breast, and 
the bone flattened with a rolling-pin, the 
liver and gizzard, made delicately clean, are 
listened into each pinion. A stuffing made 
with sausage meat, adding some grated 
bread, and mixing it with the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, or a stuffing as for a fillet of 
veal, is i3i«[i put into the breast, and the 
turkey, well rubbed oveAvith flour, is put 
down to roast. It is basted constantly with 
butter, and when the steam draws towards 
the fire, it is nearly done; — it is tlien dredg- 
ed widi flour, and basted with more butter, 
served with gravy in tlie dish, and gamislied 
with sausages, or with forcemeat halls if 
veal stuffing is used, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. 

To baU a turkey. After being nicely 



FOir 



152 



PRESCKVEd 



cleaned, it is truned with the tegs drawn in 
ander the skin, stulTed with a forcemeat, as 
lor veal, adding a few chopped oysters; 
then boiled in a well-floured cloth, and serv- 
ed with oyster, white or celery sauce, poured 
over it, and also some in a sauce tureen. 
Boiled liaiu, tongue, or pickled pork, is eat- 
en with it. A lai'ge-sized turkey will require 
more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with 
celery sauce, is stufied and trussed neatly, 
laid all over with slices of bacon, tied in a 
cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, 
butter, and kmon-juice added. It is served 
thickly covered with celery sauce. 

Turkey poults are stufled and rur^sted in 
the same manner as a full-grown turkey. 
They will reciuire rather more than an hour 
to roast. They are dressed witli the heads 
twisted under the wing, as are also turkeys 
sometimes, but it seems an injudicious cus- 
tom, as the side on which the head is cannot 
be nicely browned, and in cai-ving, the blood 
from the neck is apt to mingle with the 
gravy. 

To roast a fowl. It is picked, nicely 
cleaned, and singed; the neck is cut off 
close by die back ; the fowl is then washed, 
and if a large one, stufled with forcemeat. 
It is trussed and dredged with flour ; and 
when put down to roast, basted well wuh 
butter, and frothed up. When the steam is 
observed to draw towards Uie Are, it is 
sufiiciently done ; served with gravy in the 
difih, and bread sauce ia a butter tureen. 
A good-sized fowl will require above an hour 
to roast. 

Chickens are roasted as the above, and 
served with gravy in the dish, which is 
^nished with fried eggs, and bread fiauce 
m a sauce tureen ; they will require from 
half an hour to three-ciuarters to roast. 

To boil a fowL When nicely singed, 
wa^ied, and trussed, it is well dredged with 
flour, and put on in boiling water, and if a 
large one, boiled neailv an hour. It is 
served witli parsley and butter, white, or 
liver sauce. 

Two boiled fowls, served with a tongtie 
between them, make a handsome top dish. 

Boiled chickens are improved by being 
stufled, and will require nearly half an hour 
to boil. 

To roast a goose. After being well 
cleaned, picked, ^d singed, it is washed, 
made perfectly dry, and stuffed with about 
four table-spoonfuls of grated bread, an on- 
ion finely minced, togedier with three sage- 
leaves, seasoned widi salt and pepper, and 
mixed with a well-beaten egg; or, the 
ftuffing is made of boiled ma^iied potatoes, 
seasoned in the same way as the other, and 
mixed with a beaten egg. If roasted on a 
^t, each end is tied on tightly ; it is basted 
at first' with a little bit of butter, ailer which 



the fat that drops finom it }s used. It tt 
served with gravy in the dish, and appfe 
sauce in a sauce tureen. A large goose will 
require an hour and a half to roast. At ta- 
ble, an opening is cut in the apron, and a 
elass of Port wine, with which is mixed a 
hr^ tea-spoonful of made mustard, is paiir> 
ed mto the body of the goose. This is ak> 
an improvement to ducks. 

A ^cen goose, about two or three monAs 
old, IS seasoned with pepper and salt only, 
and requires to be basted with batter. It 
requires about an hour to roast. 

To roast ducks. They are nicely picked, 
cleaned, singed, and wasned, seasoned with 
pepper and salt; or stufled, and served wifli 
gravy, as directed in pp. 66, 67. A dude 
may be boiled for neairfy an hour, and served 
with onion sauce poured over it. 

PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS. &c 

All sweetmeats should be preserved in a 
brass pan, which must be well scoured with 
sand and vinmr, washed with hot water, 
and wiped perfectly dry before it is used. 

An iron plate or stove is preferable to a 
fire for preserving on ; and by boiling the 
fruit quickly, the form, color, and flavor, 
will be better preserved, and there wiH be 
less waste than in slow boiling. A round 
wooden stick, smaller at one end than at 
the other^ in Scotland called a thevil, is 
better adapted for stirring sugar or preservei 
with than a silver spoon, which last is only 
used for skimming. That there may be do 
waste in taking off* die scum, it is put du-oii^ 
a fine silk sieve, or tlirough a hair sieve, 
with a bit of muslin laid into it ; the dear 
part will run into the vessel placed below, 
and may be returned to the preserving- 
pan. 

A silver fioup ladle is used for putting pre* 
serves into the jars, which should be of 
brown stone, or of white wedgewood ware. 
After the jellies or preserves are put in, they 
must not be moved till quite cold, when they 
are covered with a piece of wliite paper, cot 
so as to fit into the jar, and dif^^ed into brandy 
or nun. They are tlien stored in a cool diy 
place, and sliould be looked at occasionally. 
If in a few weeks they be obsen'ed to fer- 
ment, the sirup should be first sti-ained from 
the fruit, then boiled till it is tliick, and 
again poured over the fruit, previotuly pot 
into clean jars. 

Sugar, low in price, and consequently 
coarse in quality, is far from being cheapen 
in the end ; while tliat which is most refin- 
ed is always the best. White sugars sbodU 
be chosen as shining and as close in texlnre 
as possible. 

The best sort of brown sugar has a bright 
and gravelly appearance. 

A jelly-bag is made of half a square of 



PRESERVES 



153 



PRESERVES 



flumd folded by the cornera, and one side 
sewed up; the top bound with tape, and 
firar loops also of tape sew'ed on, so as to 
bai^ upon a stand made of four bars of 
wood, each thtrtynsix inches in height, fast- 
ened with four bars at the top, each meas- 
uring ten inches, with books upon tlie cor- 
ners. Twelve inches from the bottom four 
more bars are placed. A pan or basin is 
put underneath to receive the juice or jeUy 
as it dn^ through the bag. 



To Mooe Sugar in Preserving Cher- 
rUa, Green Ckigee, Danumu, CurranU, 
and RaspberrieB. Gather the fiuit iterfectly 
dry, and to a pound allow five ounces of finely- 
pomided loaf sugar ; put a byer of fruit into a 
wide-mouthed boUle or jar, and then one of 
sugar, liU the vessel is full ; tie over it tightly 
two folds of sound bladder, and put them into 
a copper or pan, withstiaw in the bottom, 
and water as high as the necks, and let them 
simmor for three hours. When the water 
ooob, take out tlie bottles, and keep them 
ra a cool dry place. ' 

FRUIT, WITHOUT 



SUGAR. Take damsons when not too 
ripe; pick off the stalks, and put them into 
wide-mouthed glass bottles, taking care not 
to put in any but what are whole, and with- 
out blemish ; sliake diero well down (other- 
wise the bottles will not be half fiill wlien 
done) ; stop die bottles with new soft corks, 
not too tight; set them into a very slow oven 
(nearly cold) four or five hours ; tlie slower 
they are done the better; when the]^ begin 
to shrink io the bottles, it is a sore sign that 
the fruit is thoroughly warm: take them 
out, and before they are cokl, drive in the 
corks quite tight ; set them in a bottle-rack or 
basket, with tlie mouth downwards, and they 
will keep good several years. 

Green gooseberries, morello cherries, cur- 
rants, green gages, or biillace, may be done 
the same way. 

Obe. — If the corks are good, and fit well, 
there will be no occasion for cementing 
them ; but should bungs be used, it will be 
necessary. 

APPLES. (1) Pare, core, 



and quarter six pounds of good hard bak- 
ing apples ; finely pound four pounds of loaf 
sugar ; put a layer of each alternately, with 
half a pound of the best white ginger, into a 
jar; let it remain eight-and-forty houis ; infiise, 
fbr half tjiat time, in a little boiling water, 
half a quarter of a pound of bruii»Ml white 
giuser; strain and boil the liquor with the 
apiSes till they look clear, and the sirup rich 
and thidc, which may be in about an hour. 
Take off tlie scum as it rises. When to be 
csiten, pick out the whole ginger. 



PRESERVED APPLES. (2) Weigh 
equal quantities of good brown sugar and of 
apples; peel,cote, and mince them small. Boil 
the sugar, allowing to every three pounds a 
pint of water; skim it %vell, and boil it pretty 
thick; then add the apples, the grated peel 
of one or two lemons, and two or three 
pieces of white ginger; boil till the apples 
fiill, and look clear and yelbw. This pre- 
will keep for yean. 



APPLES, GREEN COD- 
LINGS. Gatlier the codling when not 
bigger than French walnuts widi the stalks 
and a leaf or two on each. Put a handful of 
vine lenves into a preserving-pan, then a byer 
of codlings, tlien vine leaves, and tlien cod- 
lings and vine leaves alternately, until it is 
full, witli vine leaves pretty tliickly strevired 
on the top, and fill the pan with spring wa- 
ter; cover it close to keep in the steam, and 
set it on a slow fire till die apples become 
soft. Take them out, and pare off the 
rinds with a penknife, and then put tliem 
into tlie same water again witli tlie vine 
leaves, but taking care that tlie water is 
become quite cold, or it will cause them 
to crack; put in a littb altun and set 
tliem over a slow fire till they are green, 
when, take them out and lay tliem on a 
sieve to drain. Make a good sirup and 
give them a gentle boil Uiree succe:<sive 
days; then -put diem in small jars with 
brandy paper over tbein, and tie them 
down tight. 

APPLES, Golden Pippihs. 

Take tlie rind of an oran^ and boil it very 
tender; by it in cold water for three days; 
take two dozen golden pippins, pare, core, 
and quarter tliem, and boil tliem to a strong 
jelly, and run it tlirougli a jelly-bag till it b 
dear; take tlie same quantity of pippins, 
pare and core ihem, and put Aii-ee pounds 
of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan witli a 
pint and a half of spring water; bt it boil ; 
skim it well and put in. your pippins, with 
die orange rind cut into long tlim slips ; 
then let diein boil fiist till die sugar becomes 
thick }ind will almost candy ; then put in a 
pint and half of pippin Jelly, and boil fast 
till the Jelly is clear; then suueeze in the 
juine of a fine lemon ; give the whob an- 
other boil, and put tlie pippins in pots or 
glasses with die orange-|^l. 

Lemon-peel may be used instead of or- 
ange, but then it must only be boibd, and 
not soaked. 

, APRICOTS. Pare your ap» 

ricots, and stone what you can whole, then 
give them a light boiling in water propor- 
tioned to the quantity of fruit, only just 
eaougti ; then take (lie weight of die apricots 



PRESERVES 



154 



PRESERVES 



Wk waghT, and tnke the liquor in which tfaev 
have boiled, and the sugifir, and boil it till 
it comet to a sirup, and give tliem a light 
boiling, taking off the scum as it riaeft. 
When the simp jellies It is enough; then 
take lip the aprioota and cover ihem with 
the jelly; put cut paner over them, and lay 
them (K)wn when cold. 

BLACKCURRANTS. Gather 

the currants upon a dry day; to every 
pound allow naif a pint of red currant 
juice, and a pound and a half offindy- 
poonded loaf sugar. With scissors clip off 
the heads and stalks; put the juice, sugar, 
and currants into a preserving pan; shake 
it frequently till it boils; caretilly remove 
the fruit from the sides of the pan, and take 
off the scum as it rises; let it ooil fiM* ten or 
fifleen minutes. Thb preserve may be eat^ 
fliB with cream, and made into tarts. 

CHERRIES. To a pound of 

oberries allow tfaree-quartere of a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar ; carefully stone them. 



1 as they are done,atrew pejt of the 
gar over them ; boil them fast, with the re- 
mainder of the sugar, till the fruit is clear 
and the sirup thick ; take off the scum as it 
rises. Or they may be boiled ten minutes 
in an equal quantity of sugar, which has 
been previousiv clarified ami boiled candy 
high. Part of the kernels may be added. 

CUCUMBERS. Take large 

and fresh-gathered cucumbers; split them 
down and take out all the seeds ; lay them 
in sak and water that will bear an egg, 
three days; set them on a fire with cokl 
water, and a small lump of alum, and boil 
them a few minutes, or till toider; drain 
them, and pour on them a thin sirup; let 
them lie two days ; boil the sirup again, and 
pot it over lie cucumbers; repeat it twice 
more; then have ready some fi'esh clarified 
sugar, boiled to a bk>w ; put in the cucumbers, 
simmer it five minuies; set it by till next 
day; boil the sirup and cucumliers again, 
and set them in glajsaes for use. 

CUCUMBERS, SMALL. 



Weigh equal proportions of small gri^ ca 
comers and of fine kiaf sugar, clarify it; 
rub the cucumbers with a cloth, scald them 
in hot water, and,, when cold, pnt them into 
the sirup, with some white ginger and the 
peel of a lemon ; boil them gently for ten 
minutes. The following day just let them 
boil, and repeat this three times, and the 
kist, boil them till tender and clear. 

DAMSONS. (1) Tocverypound 

of damsons alk>w three^uarters of a pound 
•f pounded kmf sugar; put into jars alter- 



nately a layer of damsons, and one of aogv. 
tie them over with bladder or strong paper 
and put them into an oven afier the bread is 
withdrawn, and let them remain till the oven 
is cold. The following day strain off the 
sirup, and boil it till thick. When cold, 
put the damsons on^by one into small jars, 
and pour over them me sirup, which most 
cover them. Tie them over with wet 
bladder. 



DAMSONS. (2) Prick them 

with a needle, and boil them with sugar 
the same proportion as in the receipt to 
preserve damsons, till the sirup will je%. 
Oarefiilly take off aU the r — 



GREEN GAGES. Put the 

plums into boiling water, pare off the skin, 
and divide them ; take an equal quantity of 
pounded loaf sugar, strew half of it over the 
fruit; let it remain some hours, and, widi 
the remainder of the siu|ar, put it into a 
preserving pan; boil till the plums look 
quite clear, take off die scum as it riaes, 
8und a few minutes before taking them off 
the fire, add the kernels. 

LARGE SWEET GREEN 

Gooseberries. (1) Weigh equal pro- 
portions of sugar and of fruit ; witli a pen- 
knife slit the gooseberries on one side, and 
take out all tlie seeds ; put them into a pre- 
serving pan with cold water, scald them; 
pour off the water when cold ; put over and 
under them vine leaves, with more cold water ; 
set them over the fire to green. Clarify the su- 
gar ; put the ipooseberries into a deep jar, and 
pour the boiling simp over than; in two 
days pour it off, boil, and put it over the 
fruit ; repeat this till the sirup becomes thick, 
then put them into small jars. 

LARGE SWEET GREEN 



Gooseberries. (2) Gather the largest- 
sized goosebeiTies, and allow an equal quan- 
tity of pounded k)af sugar ; cut the gooseber- 
ries in half, and take out the seeds ; wet tlie 
sugar with a little water, and put all together 
into a preserving pan; carefully stir and 
scum them, and boil them till the sirv^ is 
clear and the fi'uit sdl. 



GOOSEBERRIES. The tops 

and tails being reinoved from the gooBcber' 
ries, allow an equal quantity of finely-pounded 
loaf sugar, and put a layer of each aliemate- 
Iv into a large deep jar ; pour into it as much 
diripped currant juice, either red or white, as 
will dissolve the sugar, adding its weight in 
sugar; the following day put all into a pre- 
serving pan and boil it. 

GREEN PEAS. Put into a 



TUDDINOS 



156 



rtJDBlKOS 



— ■mwn of boiling water (resb gathered 
and freBh^fiiielled peas, bat not very yoiaig; 
as soon aa they boil up, pour off the water, 
aad put them upon a large diy cloth fdded, 
aad then upc» another, that they may be 
perfectly dry without being bruised; let 
them lie some time before the fire, and then 
pot diem into small paper bags, each con- 
taining about a pint, and hang them up in 
the kitchen. Before using, soak them for 
two or three hours in water, and then boil 
them as directed for green peas, adding a 
little bit of butter, when they are put on to 



PRESERVED JARQONBLLE PEARS. 
Gather pears with stalks before tliey are 
quite ripe ; alk>w equal quantities of fine 
loaf sugar and of fruit. Pare the peara as 
thinly as possible, keeping on the stalks; 
carenilly cut out the black top; as they are 
sled put Uiem into cold water. Put cab- 
gt kkvea into the bottom of a preserving- 
I pan; lay in the pears, cover them with 
I eold water and one or two cabbage leaves 
apon the top; boil them thirty minutes, and 
lay tfiem upon a dish. To six pounds of 
SD^, allow a pound of water, boil and 
skuB It ; then add one ounce of white gin- 
ger, previously soaked in hot water, and 
scraped cl^n, add the juice and thinly par- 
ed rinds of two lemons. Boil the simp ten 
minutes, put in the pears, and let them boil 
twenty minutes; take them out, put them 
into a bowl or deep dish, boil die simp 
eight minutes, and when cold pour it over 
the pears; cover them with paper; in four 
days potir off the simp, boil it eight minutes, 
and pour it over the pears when cold. In 
four days repeat tliis process, and do it a 
I third time ; then stick a clove in each pear, 
I where the black top was cot out. Put them 
into jars, divide the gineer and lemcm-peel, 
and pour on the sirap wnen cold. 

RED PEARS. Parboil a doz- 



peeied 
bagel 



en of pound pears in water; peel them. 
Clarify the same weight of fine loaf sugar 
that there is of pears; add a pint of Port 
wine, the juice and rind of one lemon, with 
a little codiineal, a few cloves, and a stick 
of cinnamon ; boil the pears in this till thev 
become clear and red ; take them out, boil 
up the sirap, strain, and put it over the 
peara. 

PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 
Great nicety is to be observed in prepar- 
ing every material used for boiled or baked 
piiddings. 

The eggs require to be well beaten, for 
which purpose, if many are to be done, a 
whisk IS used ; if tew, a three-pronged fork. 
The flour is dried and sifted. The currants 



are carelilly deaned, by putring then lalt 
a cuHeoder) and pooria^ warm water ov«r 
tiKm; if very dirty, this is to be repamed 
two or three times, and after bailiff dried in 
a dish before the lire, they are rubbed io a 
clean coarse cloth, all the stalks and stooea 
pkked out, and then a little flour dredged 
over them. The raisins are stoned with a 
smalt shaipix>inted knife ; it is cleansed in 
a basin ot water, which also receives the 
seed. The pudding cloch must be kept ea- 
pecially clean, or it will unpart an unpleaa- 
ant teste to anything that m boiled in it; 
and wlien taken off a podding, it ought im* 
mediately to be hud ia ooU water, and aA 
terwaids well washed whh soda or pearl« 
ashes in hot water. Just before being used 
for a rice, bread, or batter pudding, it 
ebould be dipped into hot water, wrung, 
ehakent and well dredged with flour; ami 
for a plum, suet pudding, or any sort of 
fruit pudding in paste, it must be buttered 
before being floured. 

The water should boil quick when tha 
podding is put in ; and it should be moved 
about foi* a minute, for fear the ingredients 
should not mix. 

When the pudding is done, a pan of eold 
water should be ready, and the pudding 
dipped into it as soon as it comes out of tha 
pot, which will prevent its adhering to the 
cfoth. 

A bread pudding should be tied k)ose; 
if batter, it most oe tied tight over, and a 
batter piidding should be strained through a 
coarse sieve wlien all is mixed. In othors, 
the e^gs only. If you boil the podding in 
a basin or pan, take care that it is always 
well buttered. 

When you make your puddings Without 
eggs, they must hare as little milk as will 
mix, and must boil for three or four hours. 
A few spoonfuls of small beer, or one <^ 
yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Your 
puddings will always be much lighter if you 
beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long 
and separately. You may, if you please, 
use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two la^ spooofols will sup- 
ply the place of one egg; the snow may be 
taken op from any cleeui spot before it is 
wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though 
the sooner jt is used the better. 

All puddings in paste are tied tightly, but 
other ^dings kmsely, in the cloth. Wlien 
a pudding is to be boiled in a shape, a piece 
of buttered white paper is put upon the top 
of it, before the floured cloth is tied on. 
The pan, dish, or shape, in which the pud- 
ding is to be eidier boiled or baked, most 
always be buttered before it is filled. It is 
an improvement to puddings in general to 
let them stand some time after being prepared 
either for boiling or baking. When a pud- . 



PUDDINGS 



156 PUDDINGS 



L 



ding Is to be boiled^ it most be put on in r 
eovered pot) in plenty of boiling water, and 
never for a moment be allowed to be off the 
boil until ready to be served. As the wato* 
wastes, more, and always boiling, must be 
added. A plum pudding is the better for 
being mixed the day before it is to be boiled. 
It may be useful to observe that this pudding 
will keep for months after it is dressed, if 
the cloth be allowed to remain upon it, and 
if, when cold, it be covered with a sheet of 
foolscap paper, and then hung up in a cool 
place. When about to be used, it must be 
put into a clean doth, and again boiled for 
an hour ; or it may be cut into slices, and 
broiled as wanted. If in breaking eggs a 
bod one should accidentally drop into tlie 
basin amongst the rest, the whole will be 
spoiled ; and theref(»« they should be broken 
one by one into a tea-cup. When the 
whites only of eggs are required for a jellv, 
or other things, tlie yolks, if not broken, will 
keep good for three days, if the basin th^ 
are in be covered. 

A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is pref- 
erable to wood for rolling out paste on. 
The rolling-pin, cutters, and every other tm- 

Element u«m1 in these processes, must be 
ept particularly clean ; tlie^ should always 
be washed immediately after being used, 
and then well dried. Before using butter 
for paste, it is laid for some time into cold 
water, which is changed once or twice. 
When salt butter ia used, it is well worked 
in two or tliree waters. If it should not be 
convenient to make the paste immediately 
before it is baked, it will not mfkr from 
standing, if made early in the morning, and 
tlie air excluded from it, by putting nrst a 
tin cover over the pie or taitlets, and 
above that a folded table-cloth. To ascer- 
tain if tlie oven be of a proper heat, a little 
bit of paste may be baked in it, before any 
thing else be put in. Puff paste requires 
rather a britik oven. If too hot it binds tlie 
surface and prevents the steam from rising, 
and if too slow it becomes sodden and flat. 
Raised crusts require a quick oven; puffs 
and tartlets, which are filled with preserved 
fruit, are sufficiently done when the paste is 
baked. When lai'ge pies have been in the 
oven for a few minutes, a paper is put over 
them to prevent their being burq^. 

PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half 
of cream, and boil it with the peel of a small 
lemon ; cut the crumb of a twopenny roll, 
and put it into the cream, and boil it for 
ei^ht minutes, stirring constantly; when 
thick add a quarter of a pound of fresh but- 
ter beaten to a cream, a tea-spoonful of gra- 
ted nutmeff, and four well-beaten eggs; beat 
It all well together for some minutes. It 
may be baked or boiled. 



APRIGOT. Take mx-mi- 

thirty nice fine red apricots, cut them n 
halves, and take out the stones, and roll 
them in a pan with four ounces of powdered 
sl^r. Prepare your crust, line your moidd 
with it, put in your apricots, and finish the 
same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding a 
la Franeaue, 



ALMOND, BAKED. Steep 

four ounces of crumbs of bread sliced 
in a pint and half of cream, <Nr grate the 
bread; tlien beat half a pound of blanched 
ahnonds very fine, till they become a paste, 
widi two teanspoonfuls of orange-flower wa- 
ter ; beat up the jolks of eight egg!s» and the 
whiles of four ; mix all well tog^ber ; put in 
a quarter of a pound of kiaf sugar, and stir 
in three or four ounces of melted butter; 
put it over the fire, and keep stirring ODtil 
it is thick ; lay a sheet of paper at die bottom 
of a dish, and pour in the ingredieots. To 
bake half an hour. 

ALMOND. Blanch and beat 

a pound of sweet almonds with a litde 
rose-water, mix a pound of bread grated, 
a nutmeg, lialf a pound of butler, and the 
volks of six eggs, boil a pint of cream, oo- 
iored witli a very little saffron, add it to the 
eggs and a little flour, knead it well, and 
then put in the almonds, beating it up tifl 
all is mixed together. Boil it for half an 
hour in a buttered cloth. 

AMBER. Put a pomid of 

butter into a saucepan, with three-quarten 
of a pound of powdernsugar ; when melted 
and well mixed together, add the yolks of 
fifteen eggs beaten, and as.moch candied or- 
ange beaten to a paste as wll give color aad 
flavor to it. Line the dish with paste for 
turning out, and when filled with the above, 
lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and 
bake in a slow oven. It may be eatea hot 
or cokl. 



APPLE. (1) Weigh one 
pound and three-quarters of apples, pare, 
in bits ; weigl 



core, and cut them into thin 
also ten ounces of brown sugar; make% 
suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges 
than in the middle, and sufficiently kuge to 
lay into a two-quart basin, previously but- 
tered ; put in the apple and sugar altennle- 
ly, wet tlie edges of the paste, and fold it 
closely over; dredge it with flour, and tie a 
pudding cloth over the top of a lasin; boil 
it for thi^ee hours. A light paste may be 
made with flour, half its quantity in buttc of 
grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk 
or water, and, instead of apples, Gumals» 
damsons, or any other finiit, may be encbt* 
ed in it. 



PUDDINGS 



157 



PUDDINGS 



APPLE. (2) Peel and core 

six Tery large apples, stew th«n iii six ta- 
Ue-epoonfiib of water, with the rind of a 
femon ; when soft, beat them to a pulp, add 
six ounces of melted fresh butter, the same 
of good brown sugar, six weH-beaten eggs, 
half a wine-glass of brandy, and a tea- 
qxx>nfiil of lemon-juice; line a dish with a 
puff paste, and when baked, stick all over 
the top thin chips of candied citron and 
lemon-peel. 

APPLE. (3) Make a batter with 

two e^s, a pint of milk, andtliree or four 
spooofuls of oour; pour it into a deep dish, 
and having pared six or eight small apples, 
plaoe them whole in the batter and bake it. 

APPLE, BOILED. CSiop four 



ounces of beef suet very fine, or two ounces 
of butter, lard, or dripping ; but the suet 
makes the best and li^test crust ; put it 
on the poste^xxu'd, with eight ounces of 
floor, and a salt-spoonful of salt, mix it well 
together with vour hands, and then put it all 
of a heap, and make a hole in the middle ; 
break one egg in it, stir it well together 
with your finger, and by degrees infuse as 
much water as will make it of a stifT paste: 
roll it out two or tliree tiroes, with the roll- 
ing-pin, and dien roll it large enough to re- 
ceive thirt^n ounces of apfjles. It will look 
neater if boiled in a basin, well buttered, 
than when boiled in a pudding-ck>th, well 
floured; boil it an liour and three-quarters: 
but the surest way is to stew tlie apples first 
in a stewpan, with a wine-slassful of water, 
and then one hour will boil it. Some people 
like it flavored witli cloves and lemon-peel, 
and sweeten it witli two ounces of sugar. 
Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, and dier- 
ries, damsons, and various plums and fiiiits, 
are made into puddingt with the same crust 
directed for apple puddings. 

APPLE, A LA FRAN- 

CAISE. To make the entremetM proper- 
ly, it is neoessai^ to have a mould in the 
form of a dome iom* inches deep and six in 
diameter; Uiis mould and its lid should be 
pMBfx:ed all over, the same as a skimmer. 
There should be a rim round tlie lid of the 
dome that it may cover it so closely that all 
air may be excluded. 

Peel six and thirty small red apfJes 
and cut them into quarters ; toss them in a 
fltewpan with four ounces of fine sugar 
(over which must be grated the rind of an 
orange), and four ounces of butter luke- 
warm; tlicn place tlie stewpan over tlie 
■tove, witli fire on the cover. When your 
appl» are done, puur diem into a dish. 
Whilst they are cooling mix up three^iiar- 
ten of a pound of stiiT paste; then roll out 



half of it to the thickness of the eig^ of m 
inch. With this cnnt line tlie Inside of 
vour mouM, which must be previously weH 
buttered. Be carefiil that the paste layi 
quite flat, leaving a piece all round the edga 
of the mouki, tlwn put in the best qtartera 
of tlie apples, and fill up the OKNiki with the 
rest of tlie apples and tJieir liquor, then roll 
out the rest of the paste veiy thin, into two 
parts, cut in rounds. Slightly moisten the 
paste which you have left round the edge of 
the mould, and place upon it one of the 
rounds of paste, pinching the edges carefully 
together, then sligliUy moisten, and place 
upon it your other round piece of paste, 
pinching the edge of this with the othen to 
make it quite close, tlien cover them with 
the lid of tlie mould well buttered. 

Now, turn your mould over into the mid- 
dle of a napkin, and tie up the comers of it 
close over the top of the dome, and put it 
into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine 
wide) fuU of boiling water; and let it be 
kept constantly boiling for an hour and a 
half; when it has boiled for this time, take 
it out of the saucepan, untie the napkin, 
take out the mould, remove tlie lid, place 
the mould on a dish, and then carefiilly take 
it oflf from the pudding; strew fine sugar all 
over your pudding, and serve it quite hot. 

. ARROW-ROOT. From a quart 



of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and 
mix it with two lar^e spoonfub of arrow- 
root. Boil the remainder of the milk, and 
stir it amongHi the arrow-root; add, when 
nearly cold, lour well-beaten yolks of eggs, 
with two ounces of pounded loaf su^r, 
and the same of fresh butter broken into 
small bits ; season with grated nutmeg. Mix 
it well togetlier, and Uike it in a buttered 
dish fifteen or twenty minutes. 

AUNT MARY'S. Of bkxHn 



raisins stoned, currants nicely cleaned, suet 
finely minced, bread grated, apples minced, 
and brown sugar, a (juarter of a pound of 
eadi ; four well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonfiil 
of pounded ginger, half a one of salt, lialf a 
nutmeg giated, and one glass of brandy; 
mix all the ineredients well, and boil it in a 
cloth for two hours. Serve with a sauce of 
melted butter, a glass of wine, and tome 
sugar. 

BARLEY. Take a pound of 



pearl barley well wanhed, three quarts o( 
new milk, one quart of cream, and lialf a 
pound of double refined sugar, a grated nut- 
meg, and some salt; mix tliem well togedier, 
then put them into a deep pan, and bake it; 
tlten take it out of the oven, and put into it 
six ^gs well beaten, six ounces of beef mar- 
row, and a quaiter of a pound of grated 



PUDDINGS 



158 



PUDDINGS 



bread; mix ail well together, then put it in- 
to anotlier pan, bake it again, and it will be 
excellent. 

BATTER, BAKED OR BOIL- 
BO. Break tliree essB in a basin witli 
as much salt as wilf lie on a sixpence; 
keat tliem yeW together, and then add four 
ounces of flour ; beat it into a smooth bat- 
ter, and by degrees add half a pint of milk: 
have your saucepan midy boiling, and but- 
ter an earthen mould well, put me pudding 
in, and tie it tiglit over with a pudding- 
doth, and boil it one hour and a quarter. 
Or, put it in a dish tliat you have well but- 
tered and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 
CtuTants waslied and picked clean ,^ or rai- 
sins stoned, are good in this pudding, and 
it is then called a black cap: or, add loaf 
sugar, and a little nutmeg and ginger with- 
out the fruit, — it is very good that way; 
serve it with wine sauce. 



BATTER. Take six ounccis 

of fine flour, a little salt, and three eggs ; 
beat it well with a little milk, added 
fay degrees till the batter become smooth; 
make it the thickness of cream ; put into 
m buttered pie-dish, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour: or into a buttered and floured 
basin, tied over tight with a cloth: boil one 
and a half hour, or two hours. 



BATTER, WITHOUT 

EGGS. Mix six sptenfuls of flour with a 
small portion of a (}uart of milk ; and when 
smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea- 
' spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of grated 
^mger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir 
all together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit 
may be added or not. 

BEEF-STEAK. Get rump- 



steaks, not too thick, beat them with a chop- 
per, cut them into pieces about half the size 
of your hand, and trin^off all the skin, sin- 
ews, &c. ; have ready an onion peeled and 
chopped fine, likewise some potatoes peeled 
and <^ut '^^^ slices a Quarter of an inch 
thick ; rub tlie iitsifle of a basin or an oval 
plain mould with butter, sheet it with paste 
as dii-ected for boiled puddings, season the 
steaks with pepper, salt, and a little grated 
nutm^; put in a layer of steak, tlien another 
of potatoes, and so on till it is full, occasion- 
ally throwing in part of the chopped onion ; 
add to it half a gill of mushroom ketchup, a 
table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, and half a 
gill of water or veal hrotli ; roll out a top, 
and close it well to prevent the water getting 
in ; rinse a clean cloth in liot water, sprinkle 
a little flour over it, and tie up tlie pudding; 
have ready a large pnl of \i titer I m tiling, 
put it in, and boil it two hours and a half; 



take it up, remove the cloth, turn it down- 
wards in a deep dish, and when wanted take 
away the basin or mould. 

-BEEF.STEAK,BAKED. 

Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, 
or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and 
mashed through a cullender; lay a little of 
it at the bottom of the dish ; tlien put in the 
steaks, prepaid as above, and very we& 
seasoned ; poor the remainder of the Datter 
over them, and bake it. 



BISCUIT. Poor a pint 

of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits 
grated; cover it close; when cold add the 
yolks of four e^s, two whites, nutmeg, a 
little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and 
some sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin. 

BOSTON APPLE. Peel one 



dozen and a half of good apples ; take out 
the cores, cut them smaD, put into a stewpan 
that will just hold them, with a little water, 
a little cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel 
of a lemon ; stew over a slow fire till quite 
soft, tlien sweeten with moist sugar, and 
pass it through a hair sieve ; add to it the 
yolks of four eggs and one white, a quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, 
the peel of a lemon grated, and the juice dt 
one lemon : beat all well together ; line the 
inside of a pie-dish with good puff paste; 
put in the pudding, and bake half an hour. 

BRANDY. Line a mould with 



jai--raisin3 stoned, or dried cherries, theit 
lay thin slices of French roll ; next put a lay- 
er of mtaflas or niacaro^ins,. tlien the fhiit, 
rolls, and cakes, in succession, until the 
mould be full, pouring in at times, two 
glasses of brand v. Beat four eggs, yolks and 
whites separately, put to them a pint of milk 
or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, 
and the rind of half a lemon grated. Pour 
it into tlie mould, and when tlie solid has 
imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, 
and boil an hour ; keep the mould the right 
side upwards. 

BREAD AND BUTTER. 



Cut thin slices of bread and butter, widioot 
the crust, lay some in the bottom of a dish, 
tlien put a layer of well-cleaned currants, or 
any preserved fruit; then more bread and 
butter, and so on till die dish is nearK- filled; 
mix with a quart of milk four weli-beatea 
eggs, tliree table-spoonfuls of orange-flower 
or rose water; sweets it ;nrell with brown 
sugar, and pour it over tlie bread and Ixttler, 
and let it soak for two or three hours before 
being baked. It will take nearly an hmir. 
Serve with a sauce, in a sauce-tureen, made 
with a tea-cupful of currant wine, a table- 



PUDDINGS 



159 



PUDDINGS 



qxM»fi]1 of brown sugar, three of water, and 
a bit of butter the size of a wahmt, stirred till 
boiling hot. 

BREAD. (1) Cbt two or three 



slices of bread rather thin, and without the 
crust, put them in a dish, and pour over 
them half a pint of boiling milk ; let it stand 
till cold, and then mash the bread ; lay into 
the bottom of a pudding dish a layer oV pre- 
saged gooeeberries, then add the iMiead; 
sweeten well a pint of good milk, and mix 
with it tliree well-beaten eggs with two ta- 
Ue-«ipoonfiils of rose water ; pour it over the 
bread, and bake it for an hour. Before 
serving, uutm^ may be grated over the top. 

BREAD. (2) Make a pint of 



bread-crumbs; put them in a stewpan widi 
as much milk as will cover them, the peel 
of a lemon, a little nutmeg grated, and a 
BDoall piece of cinnamon; boil about ten 
nninutes ; sweeten with powdered loaf sugar ; 
take out the cinnamon, and put in four eggs ; 
beat all well together, and bake half an hour, 
or boil rather more than an hour. 



PLAIN BREAD. Make five 

ounces of bread-cnmibs ; put them in a ba- 
sin; pour three^iiarters of' a pint of boiling 
milk over them ; put a plate over the top to 
keep iu the steam ; let it stand twenty min- 
utes, then be^t it up quite smooth with two 
ounces of sugar and a salt-spoonfiil of nutmeg. 
Break four eggs on a plate, leaving out one 
white; beat tl^m well, and add tliem to the 
pudding. Stir it all well together, and put it 
m a mould that lias been well buttered and 
floured; tie a cloth over it, and boil it one 
hour. 



BUTTER-MILK. Turn two 

quarts of new milk with one of butter-milk ; 
drain off tlie whey, and mix with the curd 
the grated crumb of a twopenny roll, the 
grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nut- 
meg grated, half a pint of rich cream, six 
ounces of clarified butter, and the beaten 
yolks of nine, and the whites of four eggs ; 
sweeten it well, and bake it with or without 
a puff paste, for three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be boiled. 



CAMP, Put into a saucepan 

half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, add 
the peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it 
just come to a boil, take it off, and stir in a 
quarter of a pound of sifted fiour ; mix it 
perfectly smooth, and wlien cold, beat in 
four well'beaten ^gs.. Half fill twelve yel- 
low tea-cups, and bake them in a quick 
oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, 
wgar, and batter, in a sauoe-tiireen. 



CARROT. Pound in a movtw 

the red part of two laree boiled carrots; add 
a slice of grated bread, or pounded biseuit, 
two ounces of melted butter, the same qoai^ 
tity of suear, a table-spoonfiil of marma- 
lade, or a bit of oranse-peel minced ; half a 
teanspoonful of (pited nutmeg, and four weB- 
beaten eggs; mix all well together; bake it 
in a dish lined with puff paste. 

CALF'S FEET. Pick U 



die meat off tliree well-boiled calTs feel; 
chop it finely, as also half a nodnd of fresh 
beef suet; grate the crumb or a penny loaf; 
cut like straws an ounce of orai^-peel, and 
the same of citron ; beat well six eggs, and 
grate a small nutmeg ^ mix all diese ingra- 
dients well togedier, wiCh a glass of brandy 
or mm, and boil it in a ck>th nearly t*^ 
hours. Serve with a sweet a 



CHERRY, ANGLO FRAN- 
CA IS. Pick two pounds of fine ripa 
cherries, and mix them with a quarter of a 
pound of picked red currants, (liaving ex- 
tracted tlie Kiedd), and six ounces of powdor 
sugar. Make your pudding as directed m 
die receipt fer apple puddinff, with Musca 
del raisins. You may make use of rasp- 
berries instead of currants; or mix red or 
white currunis and raspberries. 

CHEESE. (1) Grate 



pound of mild chee^; beat well four eggs» 
oil one ounce of buUer; mix these ingredi- 
ents together with one gill of cream, and 
two tuble-epoonfuls of gmted and sifted 
bi^d, and bake it in a dish or tin lined 
with puff paste. 

CHEESE. (2) Grate a quarter 



of a pound of good cheese, put it into a sauce- 
pan with half a pint of good milk, and nearly 
two ounces of grated bread, and one beaten 
egv; stir it till the cheese be dissolved; put 
it into a buttered dish, and brown it in a 
Dutch oven. Serve it quite hot. 

CITRON. (1) Mix together a 



pint of cream and die yolks of six e^a; add 
to this four ounces of fine sugar, the same of 
citron, slired fine, two spoonfuls of fiuur, and 
a little nutmeg; place this mixture in a deep 
dish, bake it m a hot oven, and turn it out. 

- CITRON. (2) The yolks of three 



eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one spoon- 
ful of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin; 
sugar to the taste ; put this into large cups 
buttered; bake them in a tolerably quick 
oven ; when done, turn them out of the cup«» 
and serve. 



COCOA-NUT. Quarter 



PUDDINGS 



160 



FUDDIN6S 



CbooaHMit grated : same of powdered Bogar ; 
thrae and half ounces butier; whites of six 

E; half teanspoon of rose-water, and half 
of wine and brandy mixed. Take the 
brown skin from off the meat, and wash 
liie pieces in cold water, and wipe dry. 
Grate a quarter pound fine. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, and add the liquor 
and rose-water to them. Beat the whites 
of the eggs till they stand alone, and then 
stir them into the butter and sugar; after- 
wards sprinkle in Uie grated nut, and stir 
1i^ all the time. Put puff paste into the 
bottom and sides of the dish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
about half Hn hour. Grate baf sugar over 
k, when cokl. 

COTTAGE POTATO OR 



CAKE. Peel, boil, and mash, a couple of 
pounds of potatoes: beat them up into a 
smooth baiter, with about tlu-ee-qiiarters of 
a pint of milk, two ounces of moist sugar, 
and two or three beaten esgs. Bake it 
about three-quarters of an hour. Three 
ounces of currants or raisins may be added. 
Leave out the milk, and add tliree ounces of 
butter, — it will make a very nice cake. 

COTTAGE. Six ounces of 



currants, half a pound of minced suet, and 
the same quantity of grated bread, lialf a 
grated nutmeg, a table-B^x>onful of white 
wine, or rose water ; mix all well together, 
with the beaten yolks of five eggs, tu a stiff 
|»ste, and with floured hands roll it into 
twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form 
of sausages; fry them gently in butter till of 
a nice brown ; nill them well in the frjiiig- 
pan. Serve with pounded loaf sugar strewed 
over diem, and willi a sweet sauce. They 
may be boiled. 

CRANBERRY. Stir into a 



quart of batter, made stitler thau for batter 
pudding, about a pint of cranbenies, and 
boil as UHual. Or, make a p;tste h^ fur apple 
pudding, and fuit in tlie cTanlierries, with 
molasses sui!icient to sweeten llieir acidity. 
Eaten widt sweet sauce. 



CURD, BOILED. Rub the 

cm-d of two gallons of milk, well drained, 
through a sieve; then mix with it six eggs, 
a little creiiro, two spoonfuls of orange- 
flower water, half h nutmeg grated, three 
spoonfuls of flour, and three spoonfiils of 
iN-ead-crumbs, half a pound of currants, and 
half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil 
for one hour, in a Uiick cloth well (loured. 

CURRANT. A pound of cur- 



rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoon- 



fiils of flomr, half a outnieg, a tea-gpo o u ftl rf 
ginger, a little powdo* sugar and a Ikda 
salt; boil this for three hours. 

CURRANT DRY. Chop a 



pound of suet, and mix it with a poand at 
flour, half a pound of currants, (well wash- 
ed), a tea.«poonftil of pounded ginger, half a 
spoonful of tincture of safiinoD, and a little 
salt; stir in a sufficient quantity of water, 
to oiake it a proper consistence ; tie it in a 
buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour; i 
it with melted butter, white wine, and a 



CUSTARD. Boil a pint of 



milk, and a quarter of a pint of good < 
thicken with flour and water made perfectly 
smooth, till it is stiff enough to bear an egg 
on it; break in the yolks of five c^gs; sweel- 
en with powdered baf sugar; grate in a 
little nutmeg and the peel df a lonoo: add 
half a glass of good brandy ; then tvbip die 
whites: of the five eggs tiU quite stiff, and 
mix gently all togetlier: line a pie-diah widi 
good pufl^ paste, and bake half an hoar. 
N. B. — Ground rice, potato flour, panada* 
and all puddings made firom powdem, are, 
or may be, prepared in the same way. 

l>AMSON. Make a batter 

with three weil-beaten egg^, a pint of milk, 
and of flour aii.I brown sugar four table- 
spoonfuls each; stone a pint of damsons, 
and mix them witli the batter ; boil it in a 
buttered basin for an hour and a half. 



EGG. Melt a quarter of a 

pound of butter, and when nearly cold, mix 
well with it tlie following ingredients: — tea 
well-beaten yolks aiul two whites -of eggs, 
half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of 
g4MKl brown sugar, two table-spoonfiils of 
flour, a grated nutmeg, and a glass <^ bran- 
dy; bake it with or witliout a lining of puff 
jiaste. 



FRUIT SUET. Of finely 

minced suet, flour, grated breadj and clean- 
ed currants, a quarter of a pound each; a 
tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, one <^ sah, 
two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea-cup- 
ful of miik ; mix all tlie ingredients n«ll to- 
gether, and boil it in a cludi for two boon, 
8er\'e with a sweet sauce. 



FAMILY. Mix with apomd 

of flour half a pound of raisins stoned aod 
chopped, the same Quantity of minced sue', 
a little salt, and milk or water sufficient to 
make it into a stiff batter; boil it for five 
hours. Sene with melted buttor poured 
over it. Two well-beateo eggs may ho 
added. 



PUDDINGS 



161 



GOOSEBERRY, BOILED. | 

This pudduiff is made in the i 
M Apple pudding. 

INDIAN. (1) It is a good pbo 

to make this pnddins tlie ni^ bdbre. It 
ie(|Qirefl a graeU deal of boiling, say Sow 
or fire boors. Sifted meal and warm milk 
stirred together pretty stiff; lalt and suffi- 
cient mol^ses added. Boil in a stout bag, 
or tightly oorered pan; let not the water 
ceC in, and be carefiil in tying to leave room 
for the meal to swell. Let the milk you use 
be warm, not scalding. You may add 
chopped suet, which is veiy much liked by 
some, and likewise ginger, if preferred. If 
you have not milk, water will answer. 

INDLAN. (2) Boil io a quart of 

ffood milk a tea-cupfiil of Indian meal, stir 
It constantly till thick, sweeten it with trna- 
de or brown sugar, and stir in two well- 
beaten eggs, and an ounce of butter; bake 
it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Haifa 
grated nutmeg may be added, and it may be 
made without eggs. A boiled Indian meal 
pudding is made in the same way, and after 
beinff mixed with or without eggs iu it, it is 
tied m a buttered and floured ck>th, and boil- 
ed for two hours. It is eaten with cokl ur 
meked butter. 



JELLY. Beat to a light cream 

tea ounces of finesh butter, then add by de- 
grees six welUbeaten yollu of e^s, and lialf 
a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two 
or three table-spoonfuls of rose water; beat 
to a stiff froth the whiles of six eggs, mix 
them in lightly ; bake it five-and-twenty min- 
utes in a dish lined with puff paste. 

JENETON. Butter a mould, 

and ornament it with raisins iu festoons, or 
in any other form; line it with sponge bis- 
cuit, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia 
and sponge biscuit, then pour a rich custard 
over tlie whole, and let it stand for two 
hours, adding more custard as it soaks into 
the biscuit. .The mould being quite full, tie 
a cloth over it, and boil it for abo^ an hour. 



LEMON. (1) Peel four lemons 

thin; boil them till they are tender; rub 
tliem througli a hair sieve, and preserve tlie 
fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples biscuits, 
a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of 
fresh butter, and pour over them some boil- 
ing milk or cream in which a stick of cin- 
namon has been boiled. When cokl, mix 
witli tliem the pulp of the lemons, and eight 
^gs well beaten; sweeten according to 
taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge 
a dish with good puff paste, put iu the mix- 
tsaet; garni^ the top with strings of paste. 



PUDDINGS 



LEMON. (2) Put half a 



of fiesh butter with half a pouad of kmf su- 
gar, into a saucepan, and keep it stirriof 
over the fire till it boils; nut it into ao 
earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large 
lemon into it, and fet it stand till cokl ; beat ' 
eight eggs, and squeeie the juice of the lemoa 
oo them; mix the sugar and butter witk 
them; put some rich puff paste at the bottom 
of a dish, then put in the preparation, and 
add bits of candied kmon-peel when jkoq 
have put in the preparation. Bake with 



LEMON. (8) Boil in 

in a ckMely covered saooepen, two large 
lemons till quite tender; take out the seemi, 
and pound the lemons to a paste ; add a 
Quarter of a pound of pounded foaf sngar, 
the same of fiesh butler beaten to a cream, 
and the yolks of three well-beaten eggs; mix 
all ingetber, and bake it in a tin liiM» with 
puff paste; take it out, strew over the top 
grated kiaf sugar, and serve it upon a napkin. 

MACARONI. (1> Simmer half a 

pound of macaroni in plenty of water, and a 
table-spoonfol of salt, till it is tender ; but 
take care not to liave- it too soft ; though ten- 
der, it shouki be firm, and the form entirely 
preserved, andna»part beginning to mek (this 
caution will serve, fur the pieparation of ail 
macaroni). Straiik tlie water from it ; beat 
up five yolks and the whites of two eggs ; take 
lialf a pint of the best cream, and Uie breast 
of a fowl, and some thin slices of bun. 
Mince the breast of the fowl with the ham; 
add them with firom two to thi-ee table- 
spoonfuls of finely-grated cheese, and sea- 
son with pepper and sak. Mix ail these 
with the macaroni, and put into a pudding- 
mould well buttoned, and th«i let it steam iii 
a stewpan of boiling water for about an 
hour, ajMl serve quite hot, with ric& gravy 
(as in Omelet). 

MACARONI. (2) Takean ounce 

or two of the pipe sort of macaroni, and 
sirmner it in a pint of milk, and a bit of 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it 
into a dish, with milk, tliree eggs, but only 
one white, some sugar, mitmeg, a nxmnfiu 
of aknond-water, and half a dass of raisin • 
wine; lay a nice paste round uie edge of the 
dish, and put it in the oven to bake. If 
you choose you may put in a layer of orange- 
marmakide, or raspberry-jam: in this case 
you must not put in tlM almond-%vater or 
ratafia. 

MARROW. Put into a nof 



PUDDINGS 



162 



PUDDINGS 



llie crumb of a pound loaf, and pour ofer it 
a pint an^ a half of boiling milk ; cover it 
closely for an hpor; cut into small bits half 
a pound of marrow, stone and cut aqtiarler 
of a pound of raisins, take the same (quantity 
jof nicely-clean^ currants, beat well six eggs, 
a te^-epoonful of graled lemon-peel, and the 
iame of nutmeg; mix all thoroughly with the 
bread and milk, sweeten it well with iM'own 
sugar, and bake it, with or without a bor- 
der of puff paste i-ound the dish, three-quar- 
ters of an hour. It may be baked in a 
Dutc*h oven, and after baking it for three- 
quarters of an hour, put a tin cover over 
the top, and |^ce the dirii upon a gridiron, 
over a slow fire, and let it remain for fifteen 



MILLET. Wash four table- 

flpoonfob of the seed, boil it in a quart of 
milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, 
and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of 
iinesh butter; sweeten with brown sugar. 
ana add the well-beaten yolks of four, and 
t^ whites of two eg^, and a glass of wine 
or spirits. Bake it in a buttered dish. 

MY. Beat up the yolks and 



whites of three eggs; strain tliem thk-ough a 
sieve (to keep out the treddies), and gradu- 
ally add to tliem about a qnaiter pint of milk ; 
stir these well togetlier. Rub together in a 
mortar two ounces of moist sugar and as 
mudi grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling; 
Btir tl^m into the eggs and milk ; tlien put 
in four ounces of flour, and beat it into a 
smooth batter; by degrees stir into it seven 
ounces of suet (minced as fine as possible) 
and three oimces of bread crumbs. Mix all 
thoroughly together at least half an hour be- 
fore you put tlie piulding into tlie pot. Put it 
into an eartlieo podding mould, that is well 
buttered. Tie a cloth over it very tight; 
put it into boiling water, and boil it tliree 
hours. Half a pound of raisins cut in half 
added to the above, will make a most admi- 
rable plum pudding. Grated lemon-peel is 
also fine. 

Don't let the water cease to boil: it will 

ril the pudding. And it is always best 
t puddings be mixed an hour or two be- 
fore put into the pot, the ingredients get 
amalgamated, and the whole becomes richer 
and fuller of flavor. 

The above pudding may be baked in an 
oven, or under meat, as Yorkshire pudding, 
only add half pint inme milk. Should it be 
above an inch and quarter in thickness, it 
will take foil two hours ; and requires care- 
ful watching; for if tlie top gets burned, a 
bad flavor will pen'ade the whole pudding. 
Or, butter some tin patty-pans or saucers, 
fill them with pudding, and bake about ao 
boor in a Dutch oven. 



NASSAU. Put into a 

pan the whole yolks of eight, andh the wfatoea 
of four egss, Imlf a pound of poanded loaf 
sugar, and one pound of fresh butter ; stir it 
over a slow^fire for nearly half an hour ; line 
a dish with thin puff paste and lay over the 
bottom a thick layer of orange nmnnalade, 
and then put in die pudding. Bake it for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 

NEW COLLEGE. Haifa poond 

of fi^esh beef suet, finely minced, the same of 
currants, a quarter of a pound of crated 
bread, and of pounded sweet biscnit, naif a 
tea-spoonfol of salt, a small nutmeg grated, 
an ounce of candied orange-peel minoed; 
mix ail together with two or three welt> 
beaten eggs, and fry them in butter till of a 
light brown ; shake the pan, 'and torn them 
frequently till done enough. Serve widi 
pounded loaf sugar strewed thickly over 
them. 

NEWMARKET. Fat <m to 



boil a pint of good milk, with half a 1 
peel, a litde cinnamon, and a bay leaf; boil 
gently for five or ten minutes; sweeten with 
loaf sugar; break the yolks of five, and the 
whiles of three eggs, into a basin ; beat them 
well, and add die milk : beat all well to^^etb- 
er^ and strain through a fine hair sieve, or 
tamis: have some bread and butter cut very 
thin ; lay a layer of it in a pie-did:i, and then 
a layer of cun-ants, and so on till the dish is 
nearly full ; tlien pour the custard over it, 
and bake half an hour. 



NEWCASTLE, OR CABI- 
NET. Butter a half mek>n mould, or quart 
basin, and stick all round with dried cher- 
ries, or fine raisins, and fill up with bread 
and butter. Sec. as in the above ; and i 
it an hour and a half. 

NOTTINGHAM. Peel six 



good apples; take out the core with the 
point of a small knife, or an apple corer, 
if you have one ; but be sure to leave the 
appkis wliole; fill up where you took the 
core firom with sugar ; place them in a |Me- 
dish, and pour over them anioe light batter, 
prepared as for battw puddii^, and bake 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

OATMEAL. Sift a 



of oatmeal, chop three-quarters of a pound 
of suet, mince some onions, and minoe al 
toeether; season well with pepper andsak; 
half fill the skins, and boil and dress theft 
as directed in the receipt for ox-blood pud- 
dings. Some people think a little sugar as 
improvemenU 

-^ ORAN6£.(iynie yolka cT ifat 



FUDDIMQ8 



I6S 



pi7]>Dmds 



mni tbe wiiitn of three qpgs, irell betteo; 
three tabieHmoonfiils of m^nge marmaJade, 
a qoarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded, 
Ihe same of melted butter; three table-epnon- 
IhiB of grated bi^ead, and a quarter of a pint 
of cream; mix all well together, and bake 
them in a dish lined with puff piute. 

ORANGE. (2) Cat in half 



Ihree large Seville oranges, aqoeese and 
ttraio the juice; boil tbe Ains till quite 
soft in a good deal of water, pound them in 
a mortar, and mix them wiUi nine beaten 
yottca and ibar whites of e^s, nearly a 
poand of pounded loaf sugar, the juice of 
the oraims, and half a poimd of melted 
batter. Bake it in a dish lined with puff 
•paste fiMr half an boor. 

PEAS. Put a quart of spHt 

peas to aoak lor two hours into warm wa- 
ter; boil them in soft water, with a bit of 
butter, till sufficiently tender to press tlunoush 
a sieve ; pulp them, and add the beaten volk 
afoneeeg, a little pepper and salt, and an 
ounce of butter. Tie it into a buttered and 
ftomed cloth, and put it on in boiling wa- 
ter; boil it nearly an hour. 

PLUM. (1) One pound of fi^ 

beef suet, finely minced, one pound of raisins 
stoned, five table-spooniiib of flour, five of 
brown sugar, five well-beaten yolks, and 
three whites of egas, a teanspoonfiil of salt; 
mix all the ingredients thoroo^ly, and boU 
it in a cloth for four or five hours. Serve 
with grated loaf sugar, and mehed bulto* 
poOred over it. 

PLUM. (2) One pound of rai- 

glns, stoned and cut in half: one pound of cur- 
rants, picked, washed, and dried: one pound 
beef su^ chopped fine: a pound of grated 
bread, or Italf pound each of grated bread 
and floor: eight eggs : quarter pound of su- 
gar: salt-spoon of salt: table-spoon of cinna- 
mon and mace mixed: two grated nutm^: 
a glass each of wine and &andy: quarter 
pound of sugar, and a pint of milk. Pre- 
pare all the day before, except the e^s, that 
you may mix them the next morning: it re- 
quires six hours boiling. B^it the eggs 
lightly, then put to them half tlie milk aiMl 
beat together. Stir in tlie flour and bread ; 
thai the sugar by degrees; tlien the suet and 
fruit; the fiuit to be well floured to keep it 
frcMB sinking. Stir hard. Now add tbe 
apice and liquor, and the remainder of the 
milk. If it is not thick enough, add more 
bread or flour; but if there be too much 
bread or flour the pudding will be heavy. 
Wet tbe cloth in boiling water, shake it out, 
and sprinkle it with fl<MU*. Layit in a dish 
and poor into it the podding Tie it tight. 



a1lo#inf roon to swell. Boil six ...^. 
When you torn it out, stick oter the out- 
side blanched almonds in dips or slips of ciC- 
iXHi, or both, iryou add grated lemon-peel 
U> the other ingredienU it will much improte 
the pudding. 



PLUM. (8) One 

best raisins stoned, half a pound of 



of the 



well cleaned,- one pound of fresh beef suet 
finely minced, five table-apoonfiib of grated 
breaii), three of floor, two of brown sugar, 
one tea-spoonfiil of pounded ginger, one of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, six well-beaten 
eggs, and three wine-glasMss of rum, all to 
be mixed thoroushly t<^ther die day before 
it is to be boiled. Boil it in a cbth or 
mould for four or five hours. Serve with 
melted butter, or the following saooe:— 
Heat two or three table-epoonfiib o[ sweet 
cream, and mix it gradually with two welt- 
beaten yolks of eggs ; add three table-spooii- 
fub of white wine, brandy, or rum, and a 
tabkt-spoonfid of sugar; season with grated 
nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till quite 
hot; but do not allow it to boil. 



PLUM. (4) Foot ounces of 

apples finely minced, the same quantity of 
currants cleaned and dried, and of grated 
bread, two ounces of raisins, stoned and 
minced, two of pounded loaf sugar, half a 
nutm^ grated, a little candied orange or 
lemon peel, four well-beaten eggs, one ounce 
and a half of melted butter just warm; mii 
all the ingredients well together, and boil it 
in a buttered shape for four hours. If the 
pudding does not fill the shape, add a slice 
of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve 
with a sweet sauce. 



PLUM, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Half a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a 
pound of finely-minced suet, a table-spoonfiil 
of flour, half a pound of currants cleaned, 
rather more than two ounces of brown sugar, 
a glass of brandy ; mix all together with a 
sufficient qoantitv of milk to make it into a 
stiff' batter ; Imil it in a cloth far four houre. 
It may be baked, adding half a pound of 
stoned raisins, and a Utile candied orange 
and lemon-peel. 



POTATO. (1) Boil three 

large mealy potatoes, mash them very smootli- 
ly, with one ounce of butter, and two or 
three table-spoonfub of thick cream ; add 
three well-beaten eggs, a little salt, grated 
nutmeg, and a table-epoonful of brown sugar. 
Beat ail well together, and bake it in a but- 
tered dish, for half an hour in an oven, and 
thi-ee-quarters of an hour in a Dutdi oven 
A few currants may be added to the pud- 
ding. 



PUDDINGS 



164 



PUDDINGS 



POTATO. (2) Boil balf a 

pint of milk, and the same quantity of 



with a stick of cinnamon, fud the peel of 
a lemon; strain it, and stir in gradually 
three table-spoonfiilB oi potato flow, mix it 
¥ery 8moothlv> and add six well4ieaten e^ps; 
sweeten with pounded loaf siwar; stick all 
round a buttered tin mould, oried cherries, 
or stoned raisins, put in the pudding, and put 
a bit of buttered linen over the top, and then 
the cover of the mould; place it in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, boil it for an hour and 
a half; take care tlie wator does not boil 
over the mould. Serve with a sweet sauce. 



POTATO-FLOUR. Boil 



cinnamon, lemon-peel, and st^r, in a quart 
of milk; strain, and stir it with three table- 
qxMufub of potato flour previously mixed 
smooth widi a little cold milk ; stir it till it 
be nearly cold ; add four well-beaten eggs, 
a glass of sweet wine, or two tablenspoonfuls 
of spirits, and a little marmalade. Bake it 
in a Dutch oven. 



PRUNE. Stew a pound of 

prunes with half a pint of Port wine, a quarter 
of a pint of water, and a large table4poon- 
ful of brown sugar; break the stones, and 
put the kernels with the firuit; spread it 
over a slieet of puff paste, wet the edges, and 
roll it into the form of a bolster; tie it firm- 
ly in a buttered and floured cloth, and boil 
it between two and three hours. Serve 
with sweet wine sauce. 



QUINCE. Take a sufficient 

number of ripe quinces to yield a pound of 
pulp, to which put half a pound of powder- 
sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two 
drachms, pound^l; mix tnem well. Beat 
up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, 
add the quince, &c. stir tlie wliole together, 
flour a clotli, tie the pudding in, and boil it. 

RATAFIA. Pound, with a lit- 

tie rose-water, two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, and half a quarter of n pound of 
ratafia cakes, add the well-beaten yolks of 
six, and tlie whites of two eg^, a pint of 
thick cream, two glasses of white wine, and 
one ounce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it 
in a dish, lined with puff paste, for tliree- 
quarters of an hour. 

REGENT'S. Rub an earthen- 
ware mould with butter, and cover the liot- 
tom with bloom raisins stoned; cut thin 
slices of die crumb of bread, butter, and lay 
one or two over tiie raisinH; upon that put 
a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread 
and butler, and raisins; do this till tlie mould 
is nearly full, and pour over it the following 
mixtures: a pint of cream well sweetened 



with pounded k»f sugar, and mixed with 
four well-bealen yolks, of eggr, a glass of 
brandy, and two table-spoonfuls of raae-wa- 
ter; let it soak one or two hoars; put over 
the top a piece of writing-paper boitered, 
and tie over it a cloth, l&il it for one boor 
and a. half, and sorve it with wioe flwioe. 

GROUND RICE, RICH. (1) 



Stir into a quarter of a pound of graoiid 
rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; put it 
into a saucepan, and keep stirring it till it 
boils; then add three ounces of melted bn^ 
ter, the same quantity of sugar, half a graied 
nutmeg, and a tea-spooofiil of grated femoD- 
peel ; mix it very weQ* and. whm cold, add 
the well-beaten yolks of foui*, and the whhe 
of one egg, with a glass of ratafia, and half 
a one of orange-flower or rose water; hake 
it in a dit<h lined with puff paste for three- 
quarters of an hour. Before serving, strew 
over the top grated loaf sugar. 

GROUND RICE. <2) Mix 



till quite smooth, with a small tea-cupful of 
ground rice, a quart of good milk, atir it 
over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for 
three minutes ; put it into a basin, and when 
nearly cold, add the wcll-beatoi ^Ika of 
six, and the whites of two ^gs, with a tea- 
cupful of sweet wine, or a glass of ^irits; 
put it into a buttered di8h,.and bake it for 
three-quartera of an hour, or for one hour in 
a Dutch oven, in the same way as the mar- 
row t)uddiu^ is done. Any sent of p i me ii e 
may be put into the bottom of the dish, and 
a sweet sauce may be served with it. 

GROUND RICE. (3) Bofl 



in a pint of milk a quarter of a pound of 
flour of rice, with two table-spocHifols of 
rose water, and half die peel of a lemon, stir 
it till thick, Uike it off, and mix in a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, half a grated not- 
m^, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the 
whiles of three ^gs ; sweeten it with brown 
sugar, pick out t^ lemon-peel, and bciil it 
in a buttered basin, which must be complete- 
ly filled. Serve with a sauce made with a 
glass of white wine, boiled in melted butter, 
and sweetened with brown sugar. 

RICE, BAKEP OR BOIL- 



ED. Wash in cold wa(%r and pick voy 
clean six odnces of rice, put it in a qaatt 
stewpan diree parts filled widi cold water, 
set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes; 
pour away tlie water, and put in une quart 
of milk, a roll of lemon-peel, and a bit of 
cinnamon ; let it boil gently tiH the rice is 
quite tender; it will take at least one boor 
and a quarter; he carefol to stir it evciy 
five minutes ; take it off tlie fire, and stir in 
an ounce and a half of fivsh butter, and bent 



PUDDINGS 



16ft 



PUDDINGS 



up uiTBe ^ggs on a piatC) s ssft'Cpoonfiil m 
nutmeg', two ounces of au^; put it into the 
podding, and stir it till it is quite smooth ; 
fine a pie-dish bi^ enousfa to hold it with 
puff paste, notch it round the edge, put in 
your pudding, and bake it three-quarters of 
an boor: this will be a nice firm pudding. 

If you like 4t to eat more like custard, 
add one more e^!gy and half a pint more 
milk; it will be better a little thinner whm 
boiled ; one hour will boil it. If you like 
it in litde puddings, butter small tea-cups, 
and either bake or boil them, half an hoar 
will do either: you may vaiy the padding 
by putting in candied lemon or orange peel, 
minced very fine, or dried cherries, or three 
ounces of currants, or raisins, or apples 
minoed fine. If (he puddings afiB baked or 
boiled, serve them with white wine sauce, or 
butter and sugai'. 

RICE. Boil a quarter of a 



pound of rice in water till it is soft, then 
drain it in a sieve, and pound it in a mor- 
for; add five weti-beaten yolks of eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, the same pro- 
portion c^ susar, a small nutm^, and half 
the rind of a lemon grated ; work them well 
together for twenty minutes, and add a 
pound of cleaned currants ; mix it all well 
and boil it in a pudding clotli for an hour 
and a half. Serre with wine sauce. 

RICE, WITHOUT EGGS. 



Weigli six ounces of rice, six of brown su- 
gar, and three and a half of fresh butter; 
break tbe butter into small bits ; wash the 
rice in several waters ; put all into a pudding- 
dish, and fill it up with p^ood milK ; let it 
soak some hours. Bake it in a moderate 
oven for nearly two hours, and as the milk 
wastes, fill up the dish with more, till the 
rice be swelled and sofl; then let it brown. 



.-w RICH* Put into a saucepan 

four ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of 
pounded luaf sugar, six of marmalade, and 
six ounces of eggs, well beaten ; stir all one 
way till it be thoi-ou^ly warmed ; it must 
not be allowed to boi). Bake it in a dish 
lined with puff paste. 

-SAGO. (1) Boil five tablcHspoon- 



fuls of sago, well picked and washed, in a 
quart of water, also half die peel of a lemon, 
and a stick of cinnamon { when it is rather 
thick, add half a pint of white wine, and 
sweeten it yvith good brown sugar; beat six 
yolks and three whites of eg^, pick out the 
lemon-peel and cjnnamon, mix all v^ell tof 
gether, and bake it in ^ dish with or witii- 
out puff paste. 

-« 3AGO, (3) Washhajfapound 



of sago in several waten ^wann) ; nm pal 
it into a saooepan with a pint of good milk, 
and a little cinnamon ; let it boil till thick, 
stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and 
beat up with it half a pound of fresh butter; 
add to it the yolks of eight, and whitei of 
four eggs, beaten separately, half a glass of 
white wine, suear according to taste, and a 
little flour; mix all together well, and boil 
it. Serve with sweet sanoe. 

SALT. Take a pint of milk, 

four dessert-spooiifiils (ti fkwr, a liule suet, 
shred fine, four eggs, salt, and pounded gin- 
ger; mix first the eggs and milk, theo add 
the flour, &c. ; put more flour, if neoenar^, 
to give it consistence; tie your pudding m 
a buttered clotfa, and boil it two hoars. 



SCOTCH. Eight well4Maten 

yolks and three whites of eggs, half a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of melted butter, the grated peel and iuioe 
of one lemon ; mix all together, and bake it 
in a dish lined with puff paste; turn it out 
to serve, and strew over tbe top grated loaf 
sugar. 



SIPPET. Cut a small loaf hrto 

extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them 
at the bottom of a dbh, then a layer of mar- 
row, or beef suet, a layer of currants, and 
then a layer of Inread a^in, fcc, and aa 
continue until the dish is filled; mix four 
eggs, well beaten, with a quart of cream, a 
nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
pour over; set it in the oven, it will take 
half an hour baking. 

SHROPSHIRE, Offi^shbeef 



suet finely minced, of brown bread grated, 
and of iirown sugar, one pound eadi, one 
nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of brandy, eight 
well-beaten yolks, and four whites of eggs; 
mix all well togethei*, and boil it in a cloth 
or mould for four hours. Ser^e it witli a 
sauce of melted butter, sugar, and t\yu tabler 
spoonfuls of brandy, 

SPRING FRUIT, Peel and 



well wash four do^n sticks of rhubarb: put 
into a stewpan with tlie pudding a lemon, a 
little cinnamon, and »s much moist sugar as 
will make it quite sweet; set it over a fire, 
and reduce it to a marmalade ; pass tlirough 
a hair sieve, and proceed a^ directed for the 
Boston pudding, leaving out the lemon-juice, 
as tlie rnul)arb will be found sufficiently acij 
of itself. 



SPEAKER'S. Stone and 

weigh three-quarters of a pound of raisins. 
Rub witli butter a plain oval mould, and 
ptick upon ft fome of the rHiBi»^> iD ?tri|^i 



PUDDINGS 



166 



PUDDINGS 



or circkfl. Cut some thin slices of bread 
widiout tlic crust, dry them awhile before 
the fire, butter, and cut them into 8tri|)8 
about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the 
mould with pait of tlie bread, then put a 
layer of rai£><ns, and strew over a table- 
spoonful of pounded loat sugar ; add a layer 
of the bread and butter ; fill tlie shape nearly 
full, putting br?ad and butter on the top. 
Mix with a pint of good milk, tlie well-bea- 
ten yolks of four eggs, a table-spoonful of 
sugar, one and a half of rose-water, and a 
glaias of brandy ; pour tliis over tlie pudding, 
and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it 
three-quarters of an hour. It may be boiled 
by steam for an hour and a half. 

^—SQUASH. One good, squasli 

stewed and well bruised ; six large apples 
stewed tender; mix tliem well tugetlier; 
add seven spoonfuls of bread crumbs ; half 
pint of milk ; two spoonfuls of rose-water, 
two of wine; six eg^; one grated nutmeg; 
salt and sugar to taste. Beat all togetlier till 
smooth, and put in a dish lined wilh puff 
paste. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

SUET, WIGGY'S WAY. 



Suet, a quarter of a pound ; flour, three tiible- 
spoonfuls; eggs, two; and a little grated 
ginger; milk, half a pint. Mince tlie suet 
as fine as possible, roll it with die rolling- 
pin so as to mix it well with the flour; Ijeat 
up the eggs, mix them with the milk, and 
tlien mix all togetlier ; wet your cloth well 
in boiling water, flour it, tie it loose, put it 
into boiling water, and buil it an hour and a 
quarter. Mrs. Glasse has it, " when you 
have made your water boil, tlien put your 
pudding into your pot." 

-SUET. Mix six table-spoonfuls of 



grated bread with a pound of finely-minced 
fresh beef suet, or that of a loin of mutton, 
one pound of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, 
six well-beaten eggs, and nearly a pint of 
milk. Boil it in a cloth four or five hours. 
Serve it plain, or with a sweet sauce. 

- APPLE SUET. Of finely mine- 



ed fresh mutton suet, grated apples, flour, and 
brown sugar, six ounces each, half a grated 
nutmf^, a tea-spoonfij| of salt, and four well- 
beaten eggs, all well mixed together; boil- 
ed for two hours, and served witli a sweet 
sauce. 

SUET, OR DUMPLINGS. 



Chop six ounces of suet very fine ; put it m 
a basin witli six ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread cnuul)s, and a tea-epoonful of salt 
stir it all well together: beat two eggs on a 
plate, add to them six table-spuonfuls of 
milk, put it by degi-ees iuto the basin, and 



sdrit all well together; divide it intoaoK 
dumplings, and tie them separate, prevtausl;^ 
dredging the cloth lip[htiy widi flour. Bod 
them one hour. This is very eood the nesi 
day fried in a little butter. The above will 
make a good pudding, boiled in an earthen 
ware mould, with die addition of one more 
egg> a little more milk, and two ounces of 
suet. Boil it two hours. 

N. B. — The most economical way of mak- 
ing suet dumplings, is to boil them without a 
cloth in a pot with beef or mutton ; no eggi 
are then wanted, and the dumplings are quite 
as light without: roll them in flour before you 
put diem into the pot ; add six ounces of 
currants washed and picked, and you have 
currant pudding: or divided into six parts, 
currant dumplings; a little sugar will im- 
prove them. 

SWEETMEAT. Slice diin, 

of orange, lemon-peel, and citron, an ounce 
each ; lay diem at the bottom of a dish, lin- 
ed \vid> u light puff paste; mix with half a 
pound of butter melted, die yolkd of seven 
eggs and die whites of two, and five ounces 
of sugar ; pour diis over the sweetmeats, aod 
set it in the uven ; it will take radier more 
than halt' an hour baking. 

TANSY. Pour o^-er a diick 



slice of the crumb of bread a quart of boiline 
milk ; cover it till cold. Beat tlie yolks of 
four and the whites of two eggs. Pound 
some Uinsy with two or duee leaves of 
spinach; si]ueeze the' juice, and put as 
much of it as will make die pudding a guod 
green color, a glass of brandy, halt' a grat- 
ed nutmeg, and four ounces uf fresh iNiiter; 
mix all the ingivdients, sweeten, and put it 
into a saucepan, and slir it over the fire till 
it l)e hot. Bake it in a buttered dish for 
half an hour. Hefyre serving, stiew grated 
loaf sugar over the top. 

TRANSPARENT. Put eight 



eggs well-l)eaten into a stewpaii with half 
a pound of sugar, |)ounded fine, half a pound 
of butter, and some nutmeg gtated. Set it 
on the fire, and keep constantly stirring till 
it thickens. Then set it into a ba$iti to 
cool ; put a rich puff paste round the edgt 
of the dish ; pour in die pudding, and bake 
it in a moderate oven. It will cut light 
and clear. Candied orange and citron may 
be added, if you diink proper. 

TAPIOCA. Put four tabfe- 



spoonfuls of tapioca into a quart of milk, 
and let it remain all night, then put n spoon- 
ful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little 
spice ; let them boil gently, add fixir eggs, 
and the whites well beaten, and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Bake it. 



PUDDINGS 



167 



QUA 



■ TKESACLC Mix together • 
pDond of stoned raisins, three-quarters of a 
pound of shred suet» a pound of fkNit) a pint of 
milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated gin- 
^, and pounded spice; when well stirred up, 
tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. 



WEST COUNTRY. Mix, with 

four weli-beatcn eggs, half a pound of apples 
finely minoed, tlie same quantity of grated 
bread, and of well-cleaned currants, a quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a 
tea-qxx>nful of grated nutmeg. Tills pudding 
may be either boiled or baked, and instead 
ti grated bread, four ounces of whole rice 
may be used, which must be boiled in milk, 
strained, and allowed to be cold before being 
mixed with the other ingredients. This 
pnddding is boiled one hour and a half, and 
served with a sweet sauce. 



WHITE. Boil in a quart of 

m!k two t£U)Ie-Bpoonfuls of rose-water; add 
to two well-beaten ^gs, three table-epoonfuls 
of flour, and a littk sah ; stir it into the 
milk, and if not thick, dredge in a little 
mmne flour ; just before it is taken off* the 
fire, put in a bit of fresh butter the size of a 
walnut. Serve it with red currant jelly up- 
on the top of it. 

WHORTLEBERRY. This 



pudding may be made both of flour and in- 
dian meal. Use a pint of milk, some mo- 
bsaes, and a little salt, stirred quite stiff 
with meal, and a quart of berries mixed in 
with a spoon. Tie the bag loose, and let it 
boil three hours. Wlien made of flour, pre- 
pare it like batter puddings, ratlier stiflf to 
keep the berries from settling. Boil two 
hours. Tie the bag loose. 

WILTSHIRE. Mix, with three 



t*e1l-beaten egg8 and a pint of milk, as much 
flour as will make it a thick batter, and a 
little salt ; beat it for some minutes, stir in 
gently a large tea-cupful of picked red cur- 
rants ; boil it in a cloth for two hours, turn 
it out upon the dish it is to be served in, cut 
it into slices about three-quarters of an inch 
thick, but do not separate them; put between 
eadi a thin slice of^ butter, and some brown 
sugar, and serve it hot. 

YORKSHIRE, under roast 



HEAT. This pudding is an especially ex- 
cellent accompaniment to a sirloin of beef, 
— loin of veal,— -or any fat and juicy joint. 
Six table-spoonfuls of flour, three effgs, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and a pint of milk, so 
Ml to make a middling stiff batter, a little 
stilfer than you would for pancakenv; beat 
k up well, and take care it is not lumpr^; 
put a dish under the meaty and let the drip- 



pian drop into it till it is qvite hot wad 
wdT gresised; then pour in the batter;— 
when the upper surfiioe is brown and nC» 
turn it, that both sides may be brown alike; 
if you wish it to cut firm, and the pudding 
an inch thick, it will take. two hounata 
good fire. 

N. B.— The true Yorkshire padding m 
about half an inch thick when done; birt it 
is the feshion in London to make them fiiU 
twice that thickness. 

PUFFS. (1) Roil oat puff' paste nmAf 
a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small 
saucer, or tin cutler of tlmt sixe, cut it into 
round pieces: place upon one side raspberry 
or strawbenyk iam, or any sort of preserved 
fruit, or stewed apples; wet the edges, fokl 
over the other side, and press it roimd with 
the finger and tliumb. Or cut the paste mto 
the form of a diamond, by on tlie firuit, and 
ibkl over tlie paste, so as to give it a triaii- 
See PomU, 



PUFFS. (2) Put into a saucepan a pint 
of milk, boil slowly, and stir in flour till it 
be very thick, like paste; when cold, mix 
with it six well-beaten eggs, a table-spoon* 
ful of siwar, half a nutmeg, and the peel of 
a small leuMm grated, and a table-spoonfiil 
of brandy ; beat it well together for fifteen 
minutes, and wlien quite liglit, drop it from 
a dessert-spoon into a pan of boilins clarified 
suet or lard. Serve witli pounded toaf sugar 
strewed over tliem. 

PUFFS OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 
Roll out, a quarter of an inch tliick, good 
puff paste, and cut it into pieces four inches 
square ; lay a small quantity of any kind of 
jam on each, double them over, and cut them 
into square, triangle, or, with a tin cutter, 
lialf moons ; lay them witli paper on a baking- 
plate; ice them, bake them about twenty 
minutes, taking care nut to color the icing. 

PUNCH. See JtuUee'e Sin^ 



QUAILS, HUNTERS. Puttheqnaiki 
in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them 
on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until 
they are tender, when add a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a 
little stock, when this is thick, and quite 
hot (without boiling); take it firom the firp 
ande 



QUAILS, SPANISH. Mix die juioe 



QUE 



168 



QUI 



oF a iMDon with aonoe butter, salt, and pep- 
per; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff 
them well with the above mixture; then 
nuiten the less to the body, leaving the daws 
fiee; truss mem a good shape, and put them 
mto a saucepan on slices of baccm, cover 
them also with slices, add a gravy, moisten-, 
ed with equal portions of white wine and 
stock ; set them on the fire for half an hour ; 
then take them out, drain and untie the 
birds, pbce each on a piece of fried bread 
the size of the quail, and serve with a cl^ur 
nish sauce, with the addition of a little 



QUAILS, HOT PIE. Make a raised 
cmst in die usual way, spread o«er the bottom 
of it aowe force eutte mixed with the livers 
of the quails, pounded, and some sweet 
herbs; take eight quails, take out the thigh 
bones, and half dress them in a little butter 
and sweet herbs ; when cold, stuff each with 
some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange 
them in the pie, fill up the intestines and tlie 
centre witli the remainder of the &rce, season 
it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; 
wet the edges of the paste with water, cover 
the pie with a very tliin crust; do it over 
widi egg, and decorate it according to fimcy. 
Put it into the oven to bake, an hour and a 
quarter will suffice. When done, raise the 
top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all 
the fdt, pour in some good gravy, and serve. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. Truss die birds, 
and stuff them with beef-suet and sweet 
herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fasten them to a 
spit, and put. them to die fire; liaste with 
salt and water when they first begin to get 
warm; then dredge tliem with flour, and 
baste with butter. Put an anchoi^, two or 
three shallots, and the juice of a Seville or- 
ange into a little rich gravy ; set it on the 
fire, sliake it about, and when die anchovy 
is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the disli with fried bread crumbs. These 
birds are sometimes roosted, wrapped first in 
a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. 
They should be kept at a moderate distance 
fi:om the fire. 

QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little 
butter worked up with flour, and a few green 
c^iions into a slewpan; when brown, put 
in some quails, a giajBS of wine, the same of 
stock, parsley, some more small onions, a 
bav-leaf, and two or diree cloves ; stew these 
till the quails are sufficiendy done. Garnish 
your disii widi cock's-combs, artichoke bot- 
toms, fried bread, &c. « 

QUEEN'S POTAGE. Draw, wash, 
and clean three chickens, or voung fowls, put 



tbem iirto astewpan, with a boncii of parrief 
and some weU-«easoiied boiling veal istodt; 
let it stew for an hixir; take out the fowV^ 
and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a 
marble mortar, with the «rumb of two pemiy 
loaves, previously soakea in the soup, and 
the yolks of three or four hard boiled e^s; 
rub all throng a sieve, and add it to the 
soup stirrii^ it well. Put a quait of rich 
cream on the fire, and stir it till it hoik, and 
then mix it with the soap and serve it quite 
hot. 

QUEEN OR HEART CAKES. One 
pound of sifted sugar, one pomid of butter, 
eight eggs, one pound and a quartei* of flour, 
two ounces of currants, and half a mitmeg 
grated. Cream the biHter, and mix It weU 
with the sugar and spice, then put in half 
the e^gs, and beat it ten minutes — add the 
remainider of the ^gs, and work it ten min- 
utes longer — stir in the flour lightly, and the 
currants afterwards, — then take small tio 
pans of any shape (hearts the most usual), 
rub the inside of each with butter, fiU and 
bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on 
a sheet of matted wire, or on a baking plate 
— when done, remove them as early as pos- 
sible from the pans. 

QUEEN'S DROPS. Leave out four 
ounces of flour from the last receipt, and 
add two ounces more of currants, and two 
ounces of candied peel, cut small--— work it 
the same as in the last receipt, and when 
ready put die mixture into a biscuit iimnel, 
and )ay them out in drops about, the.siie of 
half a crown, on white papa*, — bake them 
in a hot oven, and when nearly cold, lake 
them firom the paper. 

QUINCE COMPOTE. Take six 
quinces, cut them in halves, and core than; 
scald and pare them neatly. Put aotoB clear 
sirup into a (Mreserving-pan, with the jaioe 
of a lemon ; when hot, add the quinces, and 
give them a boil togeth^* ; drain the fiuit, 
arrange it in the eompoHer; leave the sirnp 
to thicken a little, and pour it over the 
quinces. 

QUINCE CREAM. Take four or five 
ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to so^ 
ten them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and 
then boil them slowly in a pint of good 
cream, with a little ginger ; when toleraUr 
thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, and 
flavor it with rose-water. 

QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jelly 
ought not to be quite ripe, they should, how- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color ; take off the 
down which covers them, quarter, core, put 
them into a saucepan, with^water eooa^ 



QUI 



169 



QUI 



txf cover them; set them on the fire, and 
ivlien soft, lay die pieces on a sie^'e to drain, 
pressing them very slightly ; strain the liquor, 
and measure it; clarify, and boll to ea$»e 
an equal quantity of su^ar ; then take it off, 
add the liquor to it, stirring it well ; when 
mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring; as 
soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and 
falls fi-om it like molasses; take it from 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

QUINCES TO KEEP. Gather the 
fruit quite ripe, but peifectly sound; rub 
each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove 
the down ; Uien quarter, and put them into 
IwttleB, corked tight. Give them half an 
hour's boil in the httm-^fnorie. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. Gather 
tbe firuit when fully ripe, and of a fine yel- 
low; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the 
quinces into a saucepan, with a little water, 
set them on the fire until they are quite soft ; 
then take them out, and lay them on a sieve 
to drain; rub them throng, weigh tlie 
pulp; boil an equal quantity of sugar to 
petit easae, then add the pulp, stir them 
together over the fire, until it will fall from 
(he spoon like a jelly ; llie marmalade is 
then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, 
ooTer them close. 

QUINCES TO PICKLE. Pare and 
cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, 
and put tliem, with a gallon of water, and 
two pounds of honey, into a large sauce- 
pan ; mix them together well, and set them 
on a slow fire for half an hour: strain the 
liquor into ajar; when quite cold, wipe the 
quinces pei-fectly dry, and put them into it; 
cover tliem very cUmc. 

QUINCES PRESERTED I!f WHITE 

JELLT. Take as many quinces as you 
may require, choose tliem sound; pare, 
quarter, and core them, strewing powder- 
eugar over as you do them, fiHing up all die 
holes also with sixsAr ; throw in a small quan- 
tity of water, and when all are cut, add more 
water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil 
quickly. As soon as the quinces are lender, 
and the sirup clear, add some apple-jelly, 
^ve the whole one boil, and then pour it 
into glasses; when cold, drain oflf the sirup 
and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and 
let them boil as quick as you can ; just be- 
fore the jelly is taken on, |>ut in a small 
quantity of musk, or any other ingredient 
you naay wish to flavor the preserve with, 
and then pour it in tlie glasses again, over 
the quinces, and wlien cold cover them. 
This may also be colored red by adding a 
small quantity of prepared cochineal; in 
this case, tlie jelly sliould be red too. 
15 



QUINCES THE SPANISH WAT. 
Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, put 
them into a ttewpan with a pint and a Balf 
of water and two pounds of fine sugar, set 
them on a 8k>w fire, and when Ih^ begin 
to diy, moisten them witli rose-water and 
sack, or white wine; then press tlie paste 
through a coarse sieve, add two pounos of 
sugar, a little orange^wer and rose water. 
When suflSciently done, it will come off 
clean, if dropped on a plate; then set it 
aside to cool. Put it into rfialk>w pots, 
strew perfiimed comfits over, and oovei 
them close. 

QUINCES, SIRUP OF. Pare and 
scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen 
cloth, press out the juice, which pot in a 
very warm place, or where it is exposed to 
the sun, until all die fecula falls to the bot- 
tom; then strain it well, and for every 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound 
of sugar; mix them tosethier, and boil the 
wliole to perle; take it off, and when the 
sirup is nearly coM, it may be bottled. 
I'ake cara to keep the bottles well corked. 

QUINCE TART. Take some preser- 
ved quinces, imtke a sirup widi some sugar 
and water, of which, and the preserve, take 
an equal weight, and put it into a preserving- 
pan ; boil, skim, and then put in tlie fruit ; 
wlien tolerably clear, lay tlie quinces in a 
tart-dish with puff paste as usual ; cover and 
bake it ; as soon as it is done raise the top 
gently, pour in the simp, ice it, and i 



QUIN'S SAUCE. See Sauce, 

QUINTESSENCE OF ANCHOVY. 
Tlie goodness of this preparation depends 
almost entirely on having fine melk)w fish, 
that have been in pickle long enough (t. e. 
about twelve months) to dissolve easily, yet 
are not at all rusty. 

Choose those tiiat are in the state they 
come over in, not such as have been put into 
fresh pickle, mixed with red paint, which 
some add to improve die complexion of the 
fish; it has been said, that others have a 
trick of putting anchovy liquor on pickled 
sprats; you will easily discover this by wash- 
ing one of tliem, and: tasting the flesh of it, 
which in the fine anchovy is mellow, red, 
and high-flavored, and tlie bone moist and 
oily. Make only as much as will soon be 
used, the fresher it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies into a mortar, 
and pound tliem to a pulp; put this into a 
very clean iron, or silver, or very well 
tinned saucepan; then put a large table- 
spooriful of coM s(»>ing-water (we prefer 
good vinegar) into the mortar; shake it 
round, and pour it to the pounded anchovies. 



RABBIT 



170 



RABBIT 



■et dwiD b^ the side of a slow fire, very fiv- 
qiMBllv stirring them tooether till they are 
meltea, which tiiey will ue in the course of 
five minutes. Now stir in a quarter of a 
drachm of eood cayenne pepper, and let it 
remain by the side of the fire for a few min- 
utes longer; then, while it is warm, rub it 
tfarouffh a hair sieve, with the back of a 
wooden spoon. 

The essence of anchovy, is made with 
double the alx>ve quantity of water, as they 
are of opinion tliat it ought to be so thin as 
not to hang about the sides of the bottle ; 
when it does,»the large surface of it is soon 
acted upon by the air, and becomes rancid 
and spoils all the rest of it. 

A roll of thin-cut lemoD-peel infiised with 
die anchovy, imparts a fine, fresh, delicate, 
aromatic flavor, which is very grateful ; this 
is only reoonuneoded when you make sauce 
for immediate use ; it will keep much better 
without: if you wish toacidulute it, instead 
of water make it with artificial leoion-juice. 



RABBITS. (1) IVuBB your rabbits short, 
la^ them in a basin of warm water for ten 
mmutes, then put them into plraity of water, 
and boil tliem about lialf an hour; if large 
ones, three-quartera ; if very old, an hour: 
•mother them with plenty of white onion 
sauce, mince the liver, and lav it round the 
dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in 
a boat. 

06«. — Ask those you are goin^ to make 
liver sauce for, if th^ like pnin liver sauce, 
or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce. 

N. B. — It will save much truuble to die 
carver, if the raljbits be cut up in tlie kitclien 
into pieces fit to lielp at table, and tlie head 
divided, one-half laid at each end, and slices 
of lemon and the liver, chopped very £nely, 
laid on tlie sides of the disli. 

At all events, cut off the head before you 
send it to table, we lurdly remember that 
the thing ever lived if we don't see tlie bead, 
while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut 
up in an attitude imitative of life; besides, 
tor the preservation of the liead, the poor an- 
imal sometimes suflers a slower death. 

RABBITS. (2) If yo«ir fire is clear 
and riiarp, thirty minutes will roast a young, 
and forty a full grown rabbit. When you 
lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge 
it lightly and carefully with flour, that you 
may have it frothy, ami of a fine li^ht brown. 
While the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver 
with some parsley; when tender, chop them 
together, and put half tlie mixture into some 
mdled butter, reserving the other half fix- 



garnish, divided into little billockAi Gbl 
off the liead, and lay half on each aide of 
the dish. 

06«.— A fine, well-growo (but yoinig) 
warren rabbit, kept sometime afior it has 
been killed, and roasted with a stufiiag in 
its belly, eats very like a hare, to the nature 
of whidi it approaches. It is nice, nourishing 
food when young, but hard and anwholestHoe 
when old. 

RABBIT, BROILED. Take a couple of 
young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to 
steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed 
with parsley, leeks, a few mushrooms, and a 
clove of garlic, all shred fine, salt and pepper; 
roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacoo, 
and put them, with a part of the atnmoolng, 
into pieces of white paper; butter tlie papen 
inside; broil upcm a gridiron over a very 
slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. 

RABBITS, IN A FRICASSEE. Take 
two fine white rabbits, and cut them in 
pieces, bv cutting off the le^» shoulders, and 
back; blanch them in boiling water, and 
skim them for one minute; stir a few trim- 
mings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the 
fire, with a bit of butter, till it begins to fify, 
then stir in a spoonful of flour ; mix into the 
flour, a little at a time, nearly a quart <^ 
good consomme, which set on the fire, and 
when it boils, put the rabbits in, and let them 
boil gently till done, tlien put them, into 
anotli^ stewpan, and reduce the sauce tiO 
nearly as thick as paste ; mix in about half 
a pint of good boiling cream, and wlieo k 
becomes the thickness of bechamelU sauoe 
in general, squeeze it thi-uugh the taming 
to Uie rabbits; make it very liot, shake in a 
few mushrooms, the yolk of an egg, and k 
little creiun, then serve it to table. Rabbits 
may also be preserved, white or brown, in 
the same manner as chickens. 



RABBIT, MINCED. Take the n- 
mains of a roasted rabbit, cut off all the 
meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Then break the bones of the rabbit into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, 
with a slice of butter, some sliallots, Inlf a 
clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-lesU*, and basil; 
^ive these a few turns over tlie fire, then shake 
in a little flour; moisten with a glass of red 
wine, and the same quantity of stock, and 
let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour; 
strain it off, and put in the minced meat, 
adding salt and coarse pepper; heat the 
whole, without boiling, and serve hot: gar- 
nish with firied bread. 

RABBITS IN A MINUTE. Cutvo* 
rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry; 
put a quarter of a pmrnd of butter mto a 



RABBIT 



171 



RABBIT 



■lewpan, set it on the fire, and when warm, 
pat io the rabbit with a liule ponmled spioe, 
saJt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; let the fire 
be Imsk, and as soon as the pieces are 
browned, add a little idired parley and shaU 
lotB, leave it three or four minutes kmger on 
the fire, and then serve. Ten orfiTteoimin- 
oles are sufficient to cook this dish. 

RABBIT PIE. Oit a coople of young 
rabbits into quarters, and bniise a quarter 
of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the 
Uven, some pepper, salt, a little mace, pars- 
lev, out qmall, and a few leaves of sweet ba- 
sil ; when thrae are all beaten fine, line your 
pie-di^ with a nice crast, then put a uycr 
of the seasoning at the ijottom of the dish, 
and put in the rabbits; pound some more 
baoon in a mortar, mix with it some fi«8h 
butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and 
over that lay thin slices of bacon; put on the 
cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be 
done iu about two hours ; when baked, take 
off the cover, take out the baoon and skim 
off the fat, and if there is not a sufficient 
quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or 
veaJ gravy. 

RABBIT PIE, RAISED. Cut your 
rabbits in pieces, auid put them into a stew- 
pan^ with a bit of fresh buttcM , lemcMi>juice, 
pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, shallots, chopped 
very fine, and a little pounded mace. When 
the pieces of rabbit are about half done, by 
them on a dish, and When cold, raise the 
crust; pot light forcemeat at the bottom; 
the rabbit upon it, and more forcemeat upon 
the top. Cover it, and pot it in a moderate 
oven to bake gently ; when done, take off 
the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbi^eads 
cock's combs, ^., and serve. 

RABBITS, PORTUGUESE. Cutoff 
the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the 
hadtB upwards, the two legs stripped to the 
end, and trussed with a couple of skewers 
in the same manner as chickens, the wings 
turned like the pinions of a chicken; land 
and roast them with good gravy ; if they are 
intended for boiling, they shoald not be lard- 
ed, but be served with bacon, and greens, 
or celery sauce. 

RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or 
dvee young, knit full-grown rabbits, cut them 
op, and take off the ieg bones at Che thigli, 
season them well with pepper, mace, cay- 
enne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine pow- 
der, and pot them into a small pan, placing 
them as cbsely together as possible. Make 
the top as smootli as you can. Keep out the 
b^ids and carcasaes, but take off tlie meat 
about the neck. Put plenty of butter, and 
let the whole bake gently. Let it remain in 



the pan for two days, then put it into sbbbI 
potB, adding butter. The Uvera shooki ate 
be put in. 

RABBIT PRESERVED. Haviiy 
boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; 
season it well inside and out, roll it up, be- 
ginning with the legs, make it tig}.t, and 
tie it. Put it into a stew-pan, with samd 
oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these 
on the fire till done enough (but without 
boiling). When sufficiently cooked, tak* 
out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then 
cut it into small pieces, which put into bot- 
tles ; fill them with oil and cover with wet 
bladdere. When required for tabfe, Uka 
them out, cut them into fillets, and pboe 
on a dish with shred parsl^ and oil. 

RABBITS PULLED. Half boil yoitf 
rabbits, witli an onion, a little whole pep- 
per, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece m 
lemon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes; pot 
to it a little oif the liquor, a bit of butter roll- 
ed in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped 
parsley, and tlie liver boiled ami tmiised; 
boil this up, shaking it round, and serve. 

RABBITS, ROASTED. Truss them 
for roasting, and stuff tliem with tlie liver 
minced raw, grated bread, and ham, butter 
or suet, and chopped parsley, seasoned with 
a little \emoa tliyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper, and bound with an e^g beaten. Sew 
tbein up, aiTd roast them before a quick fire, 
and baste them with butter. Ser\'e them 
with gravy, or melted butter with lemon 
pickle in it. Two will take an hour to 
roast. They may also be fricasseed or fi-ie^* 
cut hito joint?, with plenty of fried parsley, 
and served with a sauce made of tJie liver 
and some parsley chopped, and mixed in 
melted butter, with a little pepper and salt, 
or made into a pie the same as chickens. 

RABBIT SOUP. Cut an old rabbit 
into pieces, put them into a quart of water ; 
boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat 
tlie meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; 
add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to 
your tas e ; stir it into the liquor tlie rabbit 
was boiled in, with the addition of a very 
little cream. 

N. B. The meat of the whole rabbit is 
too much for one quart; query, wouU it 
not be enough for twol 

RABBITS STEWED, WITH A 

BROWM SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITB 

SAUCE. Wash and clean (he rabbits well, 
let tliem lie for two or thi-ee hours in cold 
water, cut them into joints, wash and drv 
tliem in a cloth, dust them with flour, and 
fi-y them of a light brown with butter, and 



RAO 



m 



RAS 



fC^ them in the following mnce: Biy>wn 
lht«p oonoes of butter in a stewpan, wkh a 
table-«poonfuI of flour, a minced onion, sonie 
pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and 
fh6 raM>it8, stew them tifi they are tender, 
and a little before ser\'ing, stir in a table- 
■poonfiil of ketclra|!>. Wlien it is wished to 
dress with a white saooe, the rabbits are ncA 
fried, bnt stewed in white stock, which is 
ieasoned with white pepper, and salt, and 
thickened with a piece of butter mixed widi 
floor. A few minutes before serving, a little 
cream is added, and a tabte-spoonfijl of lemon 
pickle. 



RAWSHES IN BROTH. Take 
jonng radishes, pick and scald them, cat 
them into halves or quarters according to 
their size, and boil them with a slice of ha- 
eon in some stock. In a little time take 
them out, di-ain, and put tliem into another 
stew-pnu, with consomme, or veal gravy, 
and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them 
stew gently in this till they are flavored, of 
a good color, and the sauce pretty tliick ; 
then serve them. 

RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces 
of truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the 
peel of a lemun, and tlie same of a Seviite 
m^nge grated, half a grated nutmeg, half an 
ounce of mace, tite same of pepper, and one 
drachm of cayenne, dry them ail well before 
tile fire, potind them to a fine powder, add 
one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a 
sieve, and keep it it in a bottle for use. 

RAGOUT OF SNIPES. Pick six or 
eight snipes very nicely, but do not wash 
them ; take out the inside. Ro»«t tlie birds, 
arid cut off all the meat from the beasts, in 
thin slices; pound the bones, legs, and 
backs, in a mortar, atid put litem into a 
stew-pan, with the juice of a lemon, a little 
flour, atwl some weU-*jeasone<l gravy; boil it 
till it l)e thick, and well flavored 'with the 
game, ttien strain it. Cut half a pr>und of 
nam into diin long slices, and lient it in a 
little butter, widi two minced bIuiIIoIs; put 
it, with tlie breasts of tlie 8ni|)eh, into the 
strained sauce, 'and let it boil. Found tlie 
inside, or trail, with a little salt, spread it 
over Uiin bits of toasted bread, and hold 
over it a hot salamander. Put the ragout 
upon this, and place the ham rouud it. 

RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. Either 
a neck, loin, or fillet of veal, will furnish 
this excellent ragout wiUi a very little expense 
or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cut- 
Sets ; put a piece of butter or clean dripping 
into a frving-pan ; as soon as it is hot, tk>ur 
and fi7 {he veal of a light brown : take it 
out, and if you iuiv« no gravy ready, make 



some M follows: pot a pint of boifing' wMf 
into the frying-pan, give kt a boil up for « 
minute, and strain it into a basin wbile yea 
make some thickening in the feHbwin^ modi- 
ner: put about an ounce of biitfer loto a 
stewpan ; as soon as it melts, mix witli it aa 
much flour as will dry it up ; stir it ofver the 
fire for a hw roinates and gradually add to it 
the gravy you made in the frying-pan; kt 
them simiiier together for ten mmates (tiH 
thoroughly incorporated) ; season it with p^ 
per, salt, a little nraice, and a wine-gfaMBfid of 
mushroom ketchup or wine; strain it throng 
a tamis to the meat, and stew very eenSy 
till the meat is thoroughly wanned, if yoa 
have any ready boiled bacon, cat it in stiois, 
and put it in to warm with the meat. 

RAMEQUINS. Take a quarter of a 
pound of Chediire eheede, scraped, tlie same 
quantity of Gkxicester cheese, and beat them 
in a mortar, with a qt^rter of a pound of 
fresh butter, the yolks of four egga, and the 
inside of a French roll, boiled in cream tifi 
sofl ; when all is benten to a paste, mix it 
with the whites of the eggs, previously heat* 
en, and put tlie paste into small paper cases, 
made ratlier bng than square, and put them 
to liake in a Dutch oven, till of a fine brown. 
They sIkmiU Le bei ved quite hot. Yoa may, 
if you tliink [; roper, add a glass of white wtae. 

RASPBERRY CREAM. See Crem. 

RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Taka 
some good puflf paste, roll it ont, and spread 
rasfiberi^ jam over tt; roll it ap, and boitit 
ratlier mure than an hour; cut it into fivs 
sKces; pour melted butter into the dish, grats 
sugar rotmd, aitd serve. 

RASPBERRY FRITTERS, Grato 
two Naples biscuits, or the crumb of a French 
roll ; put to either a pint of boiling cream. 
When this is cold, add to it tlie yolks of fbv 
eggs, well beaten; beat all well together 
with some raspberry juice; drop this in- very 
ttinall quantities, into a pan of boiling lards 
stick them with blanched almonds, sfaoed. 

RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. His 

wiUi half a pint of white wine vin^ar obb 
{lound of raspberries, or one pound of pre- 
served raspbenies, let it boil ^r three or 
four minutes, stirring it ooiwtanly; 
it througli a hair sieve; dissolve one < 
of isingla^ in half a pint of water; mix 
with it three-quarters of a pound of puunded 
sugar, add it to the strained raspbarrim 
stir it all well togetlier; boil, and eacwn it 
through a bit of muslin, and put it into a 
shape. Turn it out when cold. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. See JeH$ 



REL 



17S 



Rice 



RASPBERRY ICE. Pf«« the Hiioe 
from as many raspberrries as will yield a 
pound and a half; put it into a glased pan, 
ud leave it for four da^. Thai carefoUy 
raise the akin that has formed oo die top of 
k, pour off the juice into another vessel ; 
clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of watar, add the juice, and 
give them half a dosen boils; if not soffi- 
cieotl^ red, put in a root of orkanet, which 
leave m tlU of the pn>par color; strain the 
preparation throv^ a sieve ; when cold, put 
It into the MoboHere, and fireeie it. See lee, 

RASPBERRY SPONGE. Dissolve 
in a little water three-quarters of an ounce 
of isingbias, add to it three-quartars of a 
pbt of cream, and the same proportion of 
new milk, nearly half a pint of raspberry 
jdKr, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it 
well one way till h becomes thick, and looks 
like sponge, then put it into an earthenware 
■Dould, and turn it out the next day. 

RASPBERRY TART. Line your 
dish with a nice puff paste, lay in sugar 
and fruit, put ban across, and bake. 

RASPBERRY TART with cream. 
Line a patly-pan with thin puff paste, lay 
in some raspberries, and strew some very 
finely sifted sugar over them; cover them 
witli puff paste, and bake it; when done, 
cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, 
in which has heea previously beaten the yolks 
of two or tlnree eggs, and sweetened with a 
little fqjgar ; when this is added to the tart, 
k it to the oven five or six minutes. 



RED CABBAGE. Get a fine purple 
cabbage, take off the outside leaves, quarlo' 
it, take out the stalk, shred the leaves into 
a colander, ^rinkle them with salt, let them 
remain till the morrow, drain them dry, put 
them into a jar, and cover them with the 
pickle for beet roots. 

RED MULLET. Scrape and wash 
them, fold them in buttereil paper, lay them 
intp a dish, and bake them gently. The 
liquor that comes from them, boil with a 
piece of butter, dusted with flour, a tea- 
(qpoonfol of soy, twaof essence of anchovy, 
aiiMl a little white wine. Serve the sauce in 
a butter>tureen. This fish is called the sea 
wcMdcock, fivmi being dressed with the 
inside. 

RELISH FOR CHOPS, &c. Pound 
fine an otince of black pepper, and half an 
omice of allspice, witl> an ounce of salt, and 
half an ounce of scraped liorseradish, and 
the same of eschalots, peeled and quartered ; 
put these ingredients into a pint of mushroom 
16* 



kctchnp, or wahmt pickb, and let them atosp 
for a foftnight, and then strain it. 

Obs. — A tea-spoonfiil or two of this !• 
gcneially an acceptable addition, mixed 
with the gravy usually sent up for chops and 
steaks, or added to thick melted butler. 

REMOULADE, INDIAN. Pound tha 
yolks often hard eggs to a paste, dilute it 
with eight spooofiils of oil, put in one at a 
time, smd cootmue poundii^ all the time; 
then add about a doien allspice, atea-spoon- 
ful <^ safiroo, four or five spoonfols of vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper; ama^amate the whdt 
perfectly, strain it through a boking-clotb, 
and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauoa 
should be rather thick. 

RENNET. (1) As sooD as the calf 
is killed, take out the stomach, and scour il 
inside and out with salt, after it is cleared 
of the curd al%rays found in it. Let it drata 
for a few hours, after which sew it up with 
two br^ handfiils of sak in it, or stretch it 
on a stick well salted; or keep it in the 
salt, wet, and soak a bit, which will do over 
and over by firesh water. 

RENNET. (2) Prepare die maw the 
— as in the above receipt: on the follow- 



ing day, pot a handful of hawthorn-tope, a 
handful of sweet briar, a handful of rose- 
leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, 
four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- 
joram, and two large spoonfuls of salt, into 
two quarts of fresh spring water ; let them 
boil gently till the water is reduced to three 
pints, dien strain it affj^ and when only milk 
warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, 
and ada to it ; in two days, strain it again, 
and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may 
be put in also; take care that il is sufficient- 
\y salt. If the ma«K be again salted for a 
few days, and dried as above, it will be 
quite as fit for use as before; it should be 
kept in a cool, dry pbce. A small quantity 
of the liquid is sufficient for turning. 

RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be 
of a good size, take off the thin skin, and 
cut tliem into loigths of four or five inches ; 
lay them in a dinh, and pot over a thin 
sirup of sugar and water ; cover with another 
dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour 
upon a hot hearth, or do them in a block- 
tin saucqian. As soon as cold, make it 
into a tart ; when tender, the baking tha 
ct'usi will be sufficient; or you may cut tha 
stalks into little bits, the size of gooseberries, 
and make your tart the same as gooseberry 
tart. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. Put a tea- 
cupful of whole rice into the least water 



BICS 



1T4 



RfCfi 



poniblBy tiR it aIiikmC bonii ; dm add h&lf 
a pint of good milk or thin ci^eam, ^d boil 
k till it is quite a nuuh, stimng it the wliole 
time it is on the fire, that it may not biim ; 
dip a shape in oold water, and do not dry 
it; put in the rice, and let it stand until 
quite cold, when it will come easily out of 
the shape. This duAi is much approved of; 
it is eaten with cream or custard, and pre- 
served fruits ; raspberries are Ijest. It should 
be made the day before it is wanted, that it 
may get firm. This blancmanffe will eat 
much nicer, flavored with spices, lemoo-peel, 
ttc, and sweetened with a little loaf sugar, 
add it with the milk, and take out the hiinon- 
peel before yoa put in the mould. 

RICE, TO BOIL. Wash the rice per- 
feedy clean, and put on one pound in two 
quarts of cokl water ; let it bod twenty min- 
utes, strain it through a sieve, and put it be- 
fore the fire; diake it up with a fork every 
now and then, to separate the grains, and 
make it quite dry. Serve it hot. 

RICE CASSEROLE. Take a pound 
and a half of rice, wash it thoroughly in 
several waters (wartn), and then put it 
mto a saucepan, at least eisht inches in 
diameter; moisten it with stock, in this pro- 
portion ; if the rice lies an inch thick, let 
the stock oome two inches above it, and 
four ladlefiils of fowl skimmings ; place the 
saucepan on a hot stove; when the rice 
boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then 
put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil 
alowly for fifteen to twenty minutes; stir it, 
let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty» 
five minutes, stir it asain; if by this time 
the rice is perfectly soft, take it off, but if 
not, add a little more liquid, and continue 
boiling until it is so ; place the saucepan 
aslant on the side of the stove that the fet 
may drain away and be taken off easily. 
As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it 
into a firm, smooth, paste, with a spatula; 
it can hardly be worked up too much, as 
every p^rain of rice ought to pass under pres- 
mre*(if necessary, acid more stock, a very 
little at a time). When tlie paste is thus 
thoroughly worked up, form your eauerole 
of it, ni-st laying it m a heap, fuw* or five 
inches high, 'and seven in diameter; doit 
with the hand as you would a raised crust; 
make the ornaments of the outer sm-foce widi 
the point of a knife, w by carrots cut for 
die purpose, taking care that the decorations 
be detached finom die mass of rice, at least 
an inch; attention to this particular will 
not only add to die beauty of the form, but 
to the color also, as the raised parts will be 
lightly colored, whiks the gn>und will !« 
anlte white. When profierly formed, mask 
1I10 whole euerfiica vridi darified butter, and 



phee it in a hot oven for an iMmr andt UT, 
by which time it will be of a fine ded-vd'^ 
low. Take off the top of your eatunlti 
clear away all the rice fiwm the inside tfasi 
does not adhere to the crust (whk^ ouglitto 
be veiy thin), and mix it with beckameUe, 
eapagnole, or whatever other nuce any bs 
proper, put it in again, and thea fill yam 
ctu^eroU, with sudi ragoots as voor bscy 
may dictate; fflaie the sorfiuse of theosler 
ornaments, and serve it. Water, with but 
ter and salt, is fi«quently thoogfat prefcnbk 
to the stock, &c., as the rice is thocbf 
rendered mudi whiter. 

RI(;E CASSOLETTES. The rice 
prepared as above may be put inco nailer 
mouMs, those called dariole mookb, vA 
it should be quite oold before it is turned oat, 
the mince or whatever is pot inside baBf 
alsacohi; it must be put in carefully, tint 
none of it may mix with the rice, othoirin 
the cassolettes wooM break in the prooea 
of flying; for the same reason, the drippiof 
must be very hot. Frying is the bert and 
quickest method of doing diem, but they any 
hIbo be browned in the oven aa the caaerob 
of rice. 



RICE CHEESE. Boil an ounce of 
rice, thick as hastv pudding, in rather lea 
than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it hot 
on an ounce and a half of butter, the same 
weight of sugar, mixmg it well together; let 
it stand till cold ; then add one egg, and da 
yolk of another, and a little white wine. 



RICE CREAM. Mix 

with half a glass of cokl milk ; then by de> j 

erees, add a pint more, also ooM, and pt ' 

jt with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, set it os | 

a slow fire for an hour and a half, then straii ■ 

and flavor it with orange-flower wKcTi i 

sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. k | 

shouM be stirred frequenUy whilst boiliDf ; | 
eggs may be added if you tbink proper. 

RICE CROQUETTES. Wash aad 
scald a quarter of a pound of rice, pot it 
into a saucepan, with the rind of a feoMW, 
shred small, a quarter of a poond of powdH<- 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped ovas^ 
flowers, an ounce of butter, and half a pial 
of milk ; set these on the fire, and wfaei tin 
rice is quite soft, add die yolks of four eggi, 
stir them in over the fire, dut do not let thM 
boil ; pour the preparation on a large tto or I 
slab, spread it equally ; let it cool, and thea | 
divide it into small equal parts; roll tkM 
into balk, dip them into an omelet, rol 
diem in liread-crumbs, and fry them in a 
very hot pan. As soon as the croqiatM 
are" of a nice ookxr, divin, sprinkle thea 
with powdeT'Sugar, and serve them. 



RtCfi 



175 



Ries 



KtCE CUPS. Sweeten a pint of mik 
wMl povnded loaf sugar, and boil it with a 
■tick of cinnamon; stir in siAed ground 
wite till thick ; ta^ it off the &e, and add 
the weH-beaten fi^ites of three eggfi; a6r it 
again over the fire for two or three minutes, 
Iton put it into tea^eope previously dipped in 
eeld water; turn them out when oold» and 
pour round them a custard enem made with 
the yolks of the eggs; place upon the rice a 
Kttle red currant jelly or ngfberry jam. 
This dish may be served warm or ookl ; if 
""cold, raspberry cream or custard may be 
poured rowid it. 

RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT 
CREAM. One tea.apooufol of rice-flour, 
a pint of new milk, the volks of three eggs, 
a taUe-speonftil of ratana (or two or three 
knrel feaves boiled in), sugar to 3'our taste; 
mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with 
the eggs into die boiling milk, until thick. 
^rrow-root is better thui rice. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (1) Boila pintof 
new milk, witli a bit of lemon-peel and cin- 
aamon: then mix just sufficient rice-flour, 
with a little cold milk as will make die 
whole oi a good consistence, sweeten ac- 
eording to taste, flavor with a little pound- 
ed bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to 
let it bum ; pour it into a shape or pint ba. 
■in, taking out the spice. When the flom- 
mery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve 
wkh cream, milk, or custard, all round, or 
serve with sweet sauce in a boat. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (2) Boil in a quart 
of milk five ounces of sifted ground rice, half 
an onnoe of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded with two table-spoonfuls of roee- 
water; sweeten, and stir it till very thick, 
■o that the bottom of the saucepan is seen, 
and then put it into a mould; when quite 
odd torn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, 
cut into straws, and pour round it some thick 
eream, and a little white wine and sugar 
mixed with it. 

RICE FRITTERS. Boil the rice in 
mi\k wiUi seme powder-sugar, orange-flower 
water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a 
Kttie butter; when quite soft put to it a 
UatMon of volks of ^[gs, poor it into a pan 
to cool. Make vour preparation into balls, 
about the sixe of^ an ^^, dip them in egg, 
fry them, sprinkle than with sugar, ukI 



RICE» GATEAU OF. Bbit a quart 
of cream, add to it hdif a pound of powder- 
■iigar, and ttnee<iaarters of a pound of 
rice; when the btter is quite soft, dissolve 
• ia it a. quarter of a pound of butter^ and 



dMb pot in die grated riad of a lemM, !■! 
it cool. When quite cold, stir in fam yulka 
and lour whole eggs, more if the rioe lie 
very thick ; butter a mouki lightly, put die 
rioe into it, place die roouU in hi>t ashes, m 
that it may be completely envebped in and 
covered with them; in Iwlf an hiiur the g«^ 
Utm will be done enoush; then turn it out, 
uk) serve. If yon wish, yon can make a 
wuffUt by whipping the whites uf six esgs; 
like other mngUM^ in this case it liiould be 
served in a silver dish. In putting the 
preparation into the muukl, be careful not 
to nU it, as the rioe would swell and rai 
over the edge. 

RICE MILK. Alkiw an ounce of rica 
for each paeon, wash it thoroughly in warm 
water; set some milk 00 the fire, and wheo 
it boils, put in the rice; oontinue to boil it 
over a slow fire, stirrii^ often for two or 
three houra; add salt or sugar aooordin|f 
to taste, and cinnamon. 

RICE AND MILK. Tor every quart 
of good milk albw two ounces of rioe; 
wash it well in several waters ; put it with 
the milk into a doeely-oovered sauccoian, 
and set it over a slow fire; when it boils 
take it off; let it stand till it be cold, and 
simmer it about an hour and a quarter be- 
fore sending it to table; and serve it an 
a tureen. 

RICE PANCAKES. Boil half a pound 
of rioe in a small quantity of virater, until 
quite a jelly; as soon as it is ookl, mix it 
with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little 
salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of 
butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, 
adding to the whole as much butter as will 
make the batter thick enough. They must 
be fried in as small a quantity of lard aa 
possible. 

RICE PASTE. Rub three ounces of 
butter well, into half a pound of ground 
rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out 
with a little flour. 



RICE, PYRAMIDS OF. Boil 
whole rice, make it up into the form of pyr- 
amids about three mclies high, or press it 
into small tin frames of that shape; take 
out part of the rice at the bottom, and fill the 
space with sausage, or rich forcemeat ; place 
them in a dish, lake off die frame, and pour 
round them some rich brown gravy. 



RICE SAVOURY. Carefidly 
and pick some rioe; set it to stew very 
gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, 
add an onion, a blade of inaoe, pepper, and 
salt. Wheo it is swelled it sbouki not be 



1 



Rtfl 



176 



ROLLS 



boiled to mniih ; put it to dry on the ehallow 
end of a sieve before the fire. You omy 
■erre it dry, or put it in the middle of a 
diali, and poor the gravy round, havmg firrt 



RICE SNOW BALLS. Wash ai^d 
pick half a pound of rice vei^ clean, pot it 
on in a raiioepan with plenty of water ; when 
it boib let it boil ten minutes, drain it on 
a sieve till it is quite dry, and tlien pare six 
apples, weighing two ounces and a half each. 
Divide the riue into six parcels, in separate 
cloths, put one apple in each, tie it loose, 
and bod it one hour; serve it with sugar 
and butter, or wine sauce. 

RICE SOUP. (1) Carefully blanch 
some well picked rice, then drain it on a 
sieve ; put about a tea-cnpfiil in tlie soup-pot, 
with one liead of celery, and a quart of 
eanMommt, and let it sunnier by tlie side 
of tlie stove for three hours. If it thickens 
too much add more eonwrnnu, season with 
a little sah ; take out the celery, and send 
the soup to table. 

RICE SOUP. (2) Wash your rice 
well in warm water, changing it frequently ; 
tlien put tlie rice into a satioepan, with 
some good stock; set it on tlie fire, and 
leave it to swell for half an hour, but do 
not let it boil ; when the rice has imbibed 
all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to 
cover the rice, cover, and boil it sbwiy for 
two hours; in the meantime broil two or 
three slices of beef, and pepper and^lt them 
well; wh«n of a oice dark color, throw 
them into the nee soup, to which they will 
impart a rich flavor and a fine col<Mr. 

RICE, WHOLE m A SHAPE. 

Wash a lai'ge tea-cupful of rice in several 
waters, put it into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover it, and when it boils, add 
two cupfiils of rich milk, and boil it till it 
becomes dry ; put it into a sliape, and press 
it in well. When cold, turn it out, and 
serve with preserved black currants, raetp- 
berries, or any sort of fruit round it. 

RISSOLES. (1) Cutpuifpaste witha 
round tin cutter, about tht^ee inches wide; 
have ready some cold fowl or veal, very 
finely minced, and seasoned with a little 
pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, pepper, 
salt, and mace, the juice of half a lemon, 
and moistened with a little good gravy. 
Put some of tlie mince upon a bit uf tlie 
parte, wet tlie edges, and biy over it anoth- 
er bit ; pi-esB it ^tly round die rim ; brush 
tliem all over with a w%ll-beaten egg, and 
strew over tliem sifted bread crumbs; fry 
them a light brown in boiling cbu'ified beef 



dripping, and lay them upon the back of a 
sieve b^ore the'fiie to drain. Serve Am 
in a napkin. The paste may he cut of tha 
size of a large breakfast plate, tlieo the 
mince put into the middle of it, the edges 
wet all round, and gathered up into the 
form of a pear, brushed over with egg, and 
strewed ovor with bread cnonbp. Served 
in a dish garnished with fried parsley. 

RISSOLES. <2) Mince very finely some 
cold roasted \'eal,*and a small bit of moon; 
seascm it widi grated nutmeg and sak; 
moisten it with cream, and make it up in<o 
good-eized balls; dip them into the yolks 
of eggs beaten up, and then into fiiiely<grat- 
ed bread. Bake them in an oven, or fiy 
them of a light brown color in fresh drip 
ping. Before serving, drain them befera 
tlie fire on die back of a sieve. Garnirii 
with fried parsley. 

ROLLS. (1) Dissolve two ounces of hot- 
ter in one pint of new milk, and stir it into 
four poimds of flour, as also three tal>le-8poon- 
fuls of yeast, a teanspoonful of salt, and the 
well-beaten whites of two eges ; cover the 
pan with a wanned towel, and set it befofe 
the fire to rise for half an hour, then work it 
one way for fifteen minutes; form it into 
rolls, place them upon tins, and let them 
rise for ten minutes before putting thou into 
the ovoi. 

ROLLS. (2) Warm an ounce of butter in 
half a pint of milk, then add a spoonfol and 
a half of yeaet of small beer, and a little salt 
Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put 
in tlie aliove. Set it to rise for an hour; 
knead it well ; make it into a&rea rolls, and 
bake tliem in a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (1) Mix rather more 
than an ounce of coarse salt with ei^ 
pounds of sifted flour ; make a hole in the 
middle, and pour in about half a pint of 
good yeast, the well-lxsaten whites of four 
e^gs, and as much new milk wanned as 
will mix it to a middling stiffness; clap 
and work it down one way f(ir half an hour, 
but do not knead it ; cover it with a wann- 
ed towel, and let it rise before the &e fcr 
half an hour; take off" the surface, which 
soon liecxHiies hard, and put it aside to be 
made into a roU ; winrk and clap tlie duqgh, 
form it into rolk, place them uprni tins, tmd 
let tliem rise fur ten minutes; bake then 
in a quick oven. 



ROLLS, FRENCH. (2) Rubo 
ofbiuter into a pound of flour; ihqp|Kld to it 
one e^ beaten, a little yeast thjjlii not bit- 
ter, ami a sufficient quantity or*'iiipc, to nmlu 
a dough of moderate stiffiiess. Beat it wall. 



Has 



m 



ftAO 



fat d»Mft kttMd k; letitn»,aiidl»lM«B 

RCH^Lfi, FRENCH. (8) Warn tbne 
•pooaliib of milk, and the same qnantity of 
water, wick a bit of butter theflise oTa wal- 
ant, pat it to two ipooniab of thiok }'«aat; 
|iat this into the middle of rather more tbao 
a 4|Bart of flotar, wax Uie whole tofBther to 
' tenoe of a batt^-poddinc, adding 
r if neoeflBsoy, to make it (be proper 
Btrew a little Hear over it from 



iUpkn 

the sides, and if the weather is cold, aet it at 
a little distance from the fire; do this three 
hoars befi>re it is put into the oven; when it 
breaks a pjood deal ihrao^ (he fioor and ris- 
es, work It intoa light paste with more warm 
milk aad water; let it lie till within a quar- 
ter of an hour of setting into the oven, then 
work them lightly into roHs; flour a tin, and 
drop them on, handle them as little as possi- 
ble; set them -before the fire. About twenty 
sMmites wiH be sofiieient time to bake them; 
pat a Htlle sak iato die flour. Rasp the 



ROIXS, SHORT, HOT. Dry befim 
dm fire a sofiieient quantity of flour to make 
three penny-rolls, or larger if ym like ; add 
to if an egff well beaten, a little sak, two 
8|ioonful8 of yeast, and a Tittle warm milk ; 
make it into a light doogh, let it stand by 
dK fire all ni^ht. Bake the rolls in a quick 



ROSE-WATER, double-di8tii.i.bi». 
The rose generally chosen for this purpose, 
is the common pafe (single or double) rose, 
foot the white rose is best of all. Gadier the 
Iknrers in fine weather, two hours after sun- 
rire; take out the cnlix, and separate the 
leaves, p<iund them in a marble nionar to a 
paste, aind leave them five or six hours in the 
mortar; then put them into a large close 
doth, flund let two persons wring it with all 
Ikeir strength. Having by this operation ob- 
tained four pounds of juice, innise in it an 
eqoal weight of fresh rose-leaves for twen^- 
four hours; at ihe end of that time put the 
whole into the alembic, which place in a 
sand-badi, and distil it according to rule, 
(See JhamHngh When you have colleetr 
ed about an ounce of the water, unlute the 
receiver, and if that which issues fitmi the 
ftili is as odoriforous as that which proceeded 
first, ccwtinue the operation ; but if not, col- 
lect it into another vessel, as this second 
water is only single, and must be ke|)t sepa* 
rate fixMQ the first, which is the EMeniial 
fVater, Should the second water have an 
unpleasant smell (caused hy the application 
of too much heat), expose it to the sun for 
a few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. 
The titfliQiBt aire is neo^spary in distilling thio 



aBdaHMheroderiftpsustiteaiioee. Aadl 

■Me powerfol essenee than die above may be 
psocored by the foMowt!^ method:— Gathsv 
as aiany roses as wittalRird thirty nounds of 
leaves, pound these with four poiMdi of sak; 
wheii peonded, place the paste iu a vessel im 
hgrttrs with salt betweea each, press then 
cloeely, cork them tight, leave (he vesNl 
twelve days, and then distil as usuaL 

ROSE.WATER,r SINGLE. Put four 
pooads of rose-ksavus into a pant with thrsa 
qonrte of river wattor, and lea«e it four-and» 
twenty hours; thea put it isito a metad aies^ 
hie, and distil imak it as ameh odoriformi 
water as yon can, being sure to stop Ihe^uia- 
ment you observe the phlegm. Take off 
the alembic, threw away ks Hsenteflte^ and 
rinse it out weU; after this, fiU it to two* 
thirds with firesh-gatkered rsse-leaves, oa 
which pour the above drawn rsse^waler) 
distil this, and when yon have procured as 
much good rose-%ratBr as it will yieU, let the 
fire go out gradually. 

ROUX. Pot 



a psood of batter into a 

t aODot tin dissolved, wbea 



add a sufiieient quantity of sifted floor, ta 
make it dte oonsisteBee of thtek btmilHs 
then set it over a fierce stove, and stk it un- 
til it beemv to take cofer, when make a ^sod 
fire of cmders, fkfie the rma on it, and let 
it stend to increase in cobi ; it o^gfe* to ba 
of a clear light brown, g^ it by, and use it 
as oecjision mayrequire* 



ROUX, WHITE. Prepare your 1 

and fiour as above, phce it on a moderately 
heated stove, stirring it constantly tiH very 
hot; be carefii) that it does not take color at 
all, for the whiter it is the more deshrable. 

RUSKS. To three pounds and a half 
of floor allow half a pound of butter, the 
name quantity of pounded kiaf snear, and 
five spoonfols of yeast ; mix the flour and 
sugar ttwether; melt the butter in two pinte 
and a half of milk, and mix it with the flour, 
then add the yeast and one beaten eggt 
work it well together; eover it, and let it 
stand for five or six hours ; take it out of 
the pan, and form it into little rolls; place 
them upon tins, and let them rise for about 
an hour; bake tliem in a quick oven, and 
when they become brown, cut them through 
the middle or info three slices; put them 
again into the oven to brown and crisp. 



SAGE GARGLE, BoH quickly in • 
pint of water, a large bsndfol of 9age leav«i<$ 



SAL 



178 



STAL 



eover the pun closely, and when reduced to 
one-lialf, Btmin it; wlien cold, mix it with 
the nme quantity of Port wine and of vine- 
gar; Bweeten it witli lioney, or with brown 
sugar. Tlie dbcoction of sage may be used 
ak)iie as a gargle, or witli vinegar and hon- 
ey, witlMMit tlie P<Mt wine; or gai^le with 
vinegar and water. 

SAGO. Let it soak for an Iiour in cold 
water, to take off the earthy tac>te; pour 
that off, and wash it well ; then add more 
water, and simmo* gently until the berries 
are clear, with lemon-peel and spice. Add 
wine and sugar according to taste, and boil 
aU up together. 

SAGO MILK. When well cleansed, 
boil it slowly with new milk. A small 
quantity will be sufficient for a ifuart of milk, 
it swelb so much, and when done, it should 
be reduced to about a pint. It requires 
neither sugar nor flavoring. 

SALAD MIXTURE. Endeavor to have 
your salad herbs as fresh as possible ; if you 
suspect tliey are not "morning gathered," 
they will be much refreshed by Tying an hour 
or two in spi'ing water; then carefully wash 
and pick tliero, and trim off all the worm- 
eaten, slimy, cankered, dry leaves; and, 
after waf>liing, let them remain awhile in 
the colander to drain: lastly, swing them 
gently in a clean napkin: witen properly 
picked and cut, arrange them in the salad 
dish, mix tlie sauce in a soup-plate, and put 
it into an ingredient bottle,, or pour H down 
the side of tlie salad dish, and don't stir it 
up till the mouths are ready for it. 

If tlie lierbs be young, fresh gadiered, trim- 
med neatly, and draii^ dry,, and the sauce- 
maker pomlers patiently over the following 
directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame 
of being a very accomplished salad-dresser. 

Boil a couple of eg^ for twelve minutes, 
and put tliem in a basin of cold water for a 
few minutes; the yolks must be quite cold 
and hard, or tliey will nut incorporate with 
the ingredients. Rub them through a sieve 
with a wooden qmon, and mix tliem with a 
table-spoonful of water, or fine double cream ; 
then aa<i two table-spoonfuls of oil or melted 
butter; wlien these are well mixed, add, by 
degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt, or powdered 
himp sugar, ana the same of made mustard : 
when these are smoothly united, add very 
gradually three table-spoonfuls of vinegar; 
rub it witli the otlier ingredients till llior- 
ouj^iiy incor^xMrated with them ; cut up the 
white of the eggy and garnish tlie U>p of die 
salad with it. Let the sauce remain at tlie 
bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the 
salad till it is to lie eaten: we recommend 
the eaierv to be mindful of the duty of masti- 



cation, without the doe perfbrmame sf 
which, all undressed vegetables are tnnUe- 
some company for the principal viscera, and 
some are even dangerously indigestible. 

SALAD, WINTER. Wash very dean 
one or two heads of endive, some beads of 
celery, some mustard and cresses ; cut them 
all small, add a little shredded red cabbage, 
some slices of boiled lieet-root, an onien, if 
the flavor is not disliked ; mix tliem together 
with salad sauce. In spring, add ra&hes, 
and also garnish the dish with them. 



SALINE DRAUGHT. Salt of ^ 
wood, twenty grains; lemon-juice, a taUe- 
spoonibl; water, two table-spoonfbk; naf* 
nesia, twenty grains ; mix it in ataadbkr, 
tc^ther with a little pounded sugar, and take 
two or three of these in the day. 

SALLY LUNNS. Take three qoarti 
of dried flour, lialf a cnpfol of yeast, aqoar* 
ter of a pound of buttei*, melted in a suflkieat 
quantity of milk to dissolve if, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a little sah : make Uiese b* 
gredients into a liglit dough, let it stand be* 
fore the fire (covered), for an lioor to riae, 
and bake in a quick oven. Tlie above may 
be made into small cakes. 

SALMON. When sahnon is fresh and 
good, the gills and fleiih are of a bri^t red, 
the scales clear, and tlie whole fish is ftiC 
When just killed, tliere is a whitenesB W 
tweon the flakes, which gives great firmnas; 
by keeping, this melts down, and the fiib 
becomes richer. 

SALMON, BAKED. Clean and eat 

the fish into slices, put it in a dish, and main 
the foliowinff sauce: — Melt an ounce of bat- 
ter, kneaded in flour, in a pint and a half 
of gravy, with two glasses of Port wine, tira 
table-spoonfolB of ketchup, two aocboviei, 
and a little cayenne. When the anchovia 
are dissolved, strain and poiar tlie saaoeover 
tlie fisli, tie a sheet of buttered paper o««r 
the disli, and send it to the oven. 

SALMON, BOILED. Put on a fiah- 
kettle, with spring water enough to wdl 
oovei' the salmon you are going to cbiva, or 
the salmon will neither look nor taste well: 
(boil the liver in a separate saocepoa). 
When the water boils, put in a liandfol of 
salt; take off the scum as soon as it riae^; 
have the fisli well washed ; put it in, and if 
it is thick, let it boil very gently. Saknoa 
rec)oires almost as muoli boiling as meat; 
about a quarter of an hour to a poaud of 
fish: hue practice only can perfect the cook 
in dressing salmon. A quarter of a saknm 
will take abnost as kmg boiling as half a 



SAL 



179 



SAL 



€ne: yoa most oonnder the tfaiekiwM, not the 
weigut: ten poonds of fine full-grown salmon 
will be done in an boor and a quarter. Lob- 
ster Sauce. 

Oba. — ^The tliinnest part of the fish is 
the fitttest ; and if yon have a " grand gmur- 
mand" at table, ask him if he js for thick 
or thin. 

N. B. — ^If you have any left, put it into 
a pie-dish, and cover it with an equal por* 
tion of vinegar and pump water, and a Uttle 
flak: it will be ready in three days. 

SALMON, BOILiU) IN WINE. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, some slices of ba- 
con, &t and lean together, a pound of veal 
cut thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put 
Iheee into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece 
of fresh etalmon cut out of tlie middle, then 
pour in just as much water as will cover it, 
and iRt it simmer over a gentle fire till the 
salnioD is almost done, thro pour the water 
away, and put in two quarts of white wine, 
with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and 
swe^ maijoram, picked from the stalks ; let 
than stew gently, and while they are doing, 
cut a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the 
slices across, and stew them in a saucepan, 
with some rich gravy ; when they are done 
enough, add a quarter of a pint of essence 
of ham ; take up the salmon, lay it on a didi, 
and serve with the sweetbread, and its sauce 
poured over. 

SALMON, BOILED, Berwick re- 
ceipt. The tail of the salmon is first cut 
off near and below the last fin, the fish is 
then cut up tlie back, keeping the bone on 
one side, and then cut up into pieces of half 
a pound each, the blood well washed out of 
the fish in cold water, but tlie scales not to be 
removed ; a pickle to be made of salt and 
water, strong enough to bear an egg, and, 
when boilinv, the fish to be put in, and boil- 
ed very quickly for fifteai mmotes. During 
the boiling; the scum to be taken off carefully 
as soon as it rises. Sauces ; — ^bbster, melt- 
ed butter, and anchovy sauce. 

N. B. — ^The hardest water is preferable 
for boiling salmon. 

SALMON, BOILED, receipt bt an 
Aberdeen FISHERMAN. When the wa- 
ter is hot, put salt into it, and stir it well ; 
taste it ; when strong enough to force you to 
cast it from ^our mouth, it will do; when 
the water boils put in the fisli ; when it boils 
asain, give twenty minutes for a salmon, and 
sixteen for a gristle. Wlien salirion is cut 
in slices an inch thick, let them boil ten 
minutes. Serve with it a sauce tureen of 
the liquor the fish was boiled in. 

SALMON STEAKS BROILED. Cut 



the steaks Iran the thickest parts of the &k 
nearly an inch thick ; butter pieces of whita 
paper; fokl the steaks in them, and broil 
them over a slow fire (or ten or twelve mtnules. 
Take off the paper; serve and garnish with 
plenty of fried parsfey. Dressed in diis 
way, they may be put round sabnon boiled, 
in slices. Sauces;— melted butter, lobster, 
or shrimp sauce. 

SALMON, FRESH BROILED. CSeaa 

the salmon well, and cut it into slices about 
an inch and a half thick ; dry it tlwroughh 
in a clean cbth ; rub it over with sweet oil, 
or thick melted butter, and sprinkle a little 
salt ovor it: put your gridiron over a clear 
fire, at some distance; when it is hot, wipe 
it clean; rub it with sweet oil or hrd; lay 
the sahnon on, and when it is done oo one 
side, turn it gently and broil the other. An* 
chovy sauce, fcc. 

O08, — ^An oven does them best. 

SALMON CAVEACH. Boil in two 
quarts of vinegar three heads of shallots, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, three cbves, 
two blades of mace, ana a little salt. Fry 
the fish, rut in slices, of a li^t brown color 
in fine oil, or clarified drippuig; put them, 
when cold, into a pan, pour over the vinegar 
an4 spices, and put on the top eiglit or ten 
spoonfuls of oil. Soles may be done in this 
way, only lay over them sliced onions instead 
of sluillots. 

SALMON, DRIED KIPPER. Cut the 
fish up the hack, and take out the bone ; wipe 
it verv clean witli a cloth ; wcare it, and put a 
handhil of salt on each side, and let it lie 
for thi«e days ; then hang it up to dry, and 
it will be fit ibr use in two days, and eats 
well with a little pepper put over it, and 
broiled. 

SALMON, DRIED, TO DRESS. La; 
it in soak for two or three hours, then broil 
it, shaking a little pepper over it. Dried 
salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only 
just warmed through ; e^ sauce and mashed 
potatoes are usually served with it; or it 
may be boiled, especially the bit next the 
head. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (1) Cut a 
salmon into two or three pieces, put it in 
a fish-kettle, and set it on the fire with a 
sufficient quantity of water to cover it, and 
plenty of salt ; as soon as it begins to boil, 
set it aside to simmer very gently until done; 
then take it off the fire, and let it stand in 
the liquor until cold, take it out, lay the 
pieces close together in a tub to pickle, and 
over tliem five ancliovies, a small qunnlity 
of pounded saltpetre, and a quarter of a 



SAL 



180 



SAh 



pint cC firaet m1; faeiag ihw impend, pot 
the top of the nhnoo liquor iato a ■tewpan, 
to which add «he saoie qaantky of while 
wine vinegar; put it on .the fire to ekim, 
and boil it for two or three minulas; take it 
eff, and let it cool. When cold, ^xNir it 
ovev the mbnon and tie it down ; in tbrae 
days turn it, and .in a week's time it wii 
be fit for use ; dib is merely in a smuJl way ; 
a ffreat c^uantity being done at once, requires 
neither oil nor aachmries. Seive gamished 
with fennel. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (2) Outthesal- 
■K» intopieoes; boil it as for eating, and b^ 
it on a diy cloth till the following day; b(ul 
two quarts of good vine^ with one of the li- 
quor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of whole 
bbck pepper, half an ounce of alkpioe, and 
four bladBs of mace. Put the sahnon into 
something deep, and pour over it die prepar- 
ed vin^pur when cold. A little sweet oil 
put upon the top will make it keepa twelve- 

SALMON, PICKLED. •<3) To a quart 
of liquor the fish has been boiled in, put rath- 
er more than half a pint of good vinegar, wad 
half an ounce of whole bhtck pepper; boil 
it, and when it is cold pour it over the fish, 
previously laid in a deep dish. 

SALMON, PICKLED, TO DRESS. 
Soak a piece of pickled salmon all night 
in nump-water ; then lay it on a fish-plate, 
and put it in a stewpan, witli three spoon- 
fids of vinegar, a little mace, some whole 
pepper in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- 
meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon-peel, 
and a quarter of a poiaid of butter rolled in 
flour ; cover the stewpan venr close, and let 
it simmer over a gentle fii-e Px a quarter of 
an hour; then take up the salmon, lav it iu 
a dish, keep it hot before the fire; let the 
sauce boil till it is of a proper consistence; 
take out the q>ioe, onion, and sweet herbs, 
and serve the sauce over the fish. 

SALMON, POTTED. Take off the 
head; cut the salmon in thick slices; wipe it 
dry, but do not Wash it ; pound half an ounce of 
nutmeg, mace, and cloves, the least part of 
cloves, half an ounce of white pepper, and 
some salt; chc^ fine one onion, six bay- 
leaves, and six anchovies ; season ed'.h slice; 
put it into a pan, with very thin slices of 
butter between each layer ; bake it, when 
well done; drain off the butter, and, when 
cold, pour over some ckurified butter. 

SALMON, TO SALT. Cut the fidi up 
the back, and cut out the bone; wipe it 
clean, and sprinkle it with saU; let it lay a 



akbl to dnia^ff the liqaor; vipe it Ay| 
roo on it two or three omom 'U poaiM 
saltpetre; cut it into pieces; pack itdossii 
a pot with a thick layer of salt between each 
layer of fish. If die farim does not-riieiB 
a few davB, htnl a strong one* and pov if, 
■Kfaen oqU, upon the saliiiQo» whidi.invt 
always be covered with it. 

SALMON, STEW, dean and soapt 
the fish; out it into 8lices,.aiid stew k in s 
rich white gcavy. A little before serving, 
add two table-spoonfuls of eov, one of ei- 
eenoe of anchovy, and a litfln jalt, some 
chopped parsley and «hives. 

SALMON, SPICED. Mix tondiar, is 
the proportion of one third of sa)t-aocPwatart» 
one pintof vinegar, one ounce of whole hbek 
pettier, and one ounce of cinnamon. Cbt 
the salmon into< slices, and boil it ia thii; 
when cold, pack it close in a pan, and pov 
over it the liquor it was boiled in, widi die 
spices, so. aa to cover it completely; oow 
tne pan closely, to exclude the air. 

SALMON, MACKEREL, SPRATS, 
HERRINGS, &c. P1CXI.ED. Cuttfaefeli 
into proper pieces ; do not take off the scalei; 
make a brine strong enough to bear an eg{!, 
in which boil the fish ; it must be boiled w 
only just liquor enough to cover it; do sot 
overboil it. When the fish ia boiled, by it 
slantingly to drain off all the liquor; when 
cold, |»ck it ckiee in the kits, and fill tfaesi 
up with equal parts of the liquor the BahBOB 
was boiled in (having firet well skimmed it), 
and Ijest vinegar; let them rest for a day; 
fill up again, striking the sides of the kit viih 
a cooper's adz, until the kit will receive so 
more; then head them down as close as p» 
sible. 

Obs.— This is in the finest oooditioi 
when^ (cesh. Some sprigpB of fresh-gsdiered 
young fennel are the accompanirooits. 

N. B.->Tlie three indispensable msdu 
of the goodness of pickled sahuon are, 1st, 
The brightness of the scales, and their stick- 
ing fest to tlie skin; 2dly, The fimmevof 
tlie flesh ; and, 3dly, Its fine, pale-red nm 
color. Without these it is not fit to est, . 
and %vas either stale before it vras pickfed, 
or has been kept too k>ng after. 

The above was given us as the adnl 
practice of those who pickle it for the Lon- 
don market 

N. B.— Pickled salmon wanned fay M% 
or in its pickle liquor, is a fitvorite didi at 
Newcastle. 



SALOOP. Boil a little 
lemon-peel, and Mgar, toother; then aix 
with a small quantity of the powder, pfv 
viously rubbed smooth, in a Uttle cold v 



SAL 



181 



SAN 



idr the whole wdl together, and boil lor a 



SALPIGON. Tliis ie a mixture ooropo- 
eed of various articles, eucb as sweetlMwads, 



witli pepper, salt, nutniteg, doves, shallots, 
nreet herbs, and a little butter ; take care 
that all tfa& articles are solficiently boiled be- 
fore they are cot up. Many things, such as 
beef->pahue, fowl, cocks'-coidbs, indeed al- 
most any article you please, may be added to 
the above. 

SALT, U as Pkitareh calls it, sauce 



ling 1 

ket salt; it should be prepared for the table 
by drying it in a Dutch oven before the fire ; 
then put it on a clean paper, and roll it with 
a roiling pin ; if you pound it id a mortar 
tin it is quite fine, it will- look as well as 
basket salt. 

%* Select for table-use tlie lumps of 
salt. 

ObB, — ^Your sak-box must have a close 
ODver, and be kept in a dry place. 

SALT, SPICED. Take four drachms 
of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two 
of wliite pepper, two of allspice, two of 
mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and 
two of thynae (diese three latter articles 
should be ^ried in an oven). Put these ail 
into a mortar, and pound tliem to an impal- 
pable powder, and sift it. Take a pound 
<^ fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an 
oven, or stove, pound it as fide as piossible ; 
sift, and mix with it an ounce of the above 
mientioned spices; amalgamate them thor- 
ouglily, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, 
which will shut perfectly close. Use it in 
the following proportion: four dradims to a 
pound of booed veal. 

SALTING MEAT. In the Mummer 
season, especially, meat is frequently spoiled 
by the cook forgetting to take out the ker- 
neb ; one in the udder of a round of beef, in 
the fat in the middle of the round, those 
about the thick end of the fionk, &c.: if 
tboe are not taken out, all the salt in the 
world will not keep the meat. 

The art of salting mrat is to rub in the 
salt thoroii^ly and evenly into every part, 
and to fill all the holes full of sak where the 
kernels were taken out, and where the butch- 
er's skewere were. 

A round of beef of 25 pounds will take a 

pomid and a half of salt to be rubbed in all 

at first, and requires to be turned and rubbed 

every day with the brine; it will be ready 

16 



for dressiag in Ibar or five days, if yo« da 
not wish it vei^ aalt. 

In MiiMMr, the sooner meat is sahed after 
it is kilkid, the better; and care must ba 
taken to defend it from the flies. 

In winUr, it will eat the shorter and 
tenderer, if kept a few days (according to 
the temperature of the weather) until its 
fibre has become short and tender, as these 
changes do not take pboe after it has been 
acted upon by the salt. 

In frosty weather, take care the meat is 
not fit>r«n, and warm the salt in a frvi^g- 
pan. The extremes of beat and cold are 
equally unfavorable for the process of sahing. 
In the former, the meat changes before the 
salt can affect it: in the latter, it is so har- 
dened, and its juices are so congealed, that 
the salt cannot penetrate it. 

If you wish it red, rub it first with salt- 
petre, in the proportion of half an ounce, and 
the like quantity of moist siq;ar, to a pound 

You may impregnate meat with a vety 
agreeable vegetable flavor, by pounding soma 
sweet herbs, and an onion with the salt. 
You ma^ make it still more relisliing by a<ik 
ding a iittfe zkst or »avory Mpice. 

SALT PORK, BOILED. See Bacon. 

SAMPHIRE, TO DRY. OR PRE- 
SERVE. Take it in bunches as it grows ; 
set a large deep stewpan full of water on the 
fire ; as soon as it boib, tlm>w in a little 
salt, and put in the sampliire ; when it looks 
of a fine green, i-etuuve the pan directly from 
the file, and take out tlie!;p<imphire with a 
fork; hxy it on sieves to orkin; wlien cold, 
lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well 
over it, next day turn tliera on a sieve, and 
strew it again widi sugar, keep turning dai- 
ly until it is dry ; take care the stove is not 
too hot. 

SAMPHIRE, TO PICKLE. Lay some 
sampbire tliat is green in a pan, sprinkle 
over it two or three liandfuls of salt, and 
cover it with spring water, and let it lav for 
twenty-four hours; tlien put it into a ^ge 
brass saucepan ; throw in a handfiil of salt ; 
cover the pan close, and set it over a very 
slow fire ; kit it stand till it is quite green, 
and crisp; then take it off, for if it becomes 
soft it is spoiled ; put it into a jar, cover it 
close, and when it is cold, lie it down. 

SANDWICHES FOR TRAVEL- 
LERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon 
the upper part of a stale loaf of bread cut 
very smooth, and tlien cut off the slice; now 
cut off another thin slice, but spread it with 
butter on the under side, without which pre- 
caution the two slibes of bread will not fit 



SA0CES 



183 



SAUC^ 



mm uother. Next take Bome cold beef, or 
ham, and cut it into very mimite particles. 
Sprinkle these thickly over the butter, and, 
having added a little mustard, put the 'slices 
iace to fiice, and pross them together. Last- 
ly, cut tlie whole into (bur equal portions, 
each of which is to be wrap|ied in a separate 
piece of paper. 

SANDWICHES. (1 ) Cot some bread 
into thin slices, pare off the crust, and sfN^ead 
a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into 
oblong pieces, put between each some bits 
of Ibw^ and then thin bits of ham, both nice* 
hr trimmed ; add a little mustard and salt. 
Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. 
Serve them for luncheon, gamislied with 
curled parsley. 

SANDWICHES, (2) Properly prepar- 
«d, are an elegant and convenient luncheon 
or supper, but have got out of feshion, from 
the bad manner in which they are common- 
It made : to cut the bread neatly with' a 
■harp knife seems to be considered the only 
essential, and tlie lining is composed of any 
ofbl odds and ends, that cannot be sent to 
table in any otlmr form. Whatever is used 
must be carefully trimmed fi'om every bit of 
akin, gristle, &c. and nothing introduced 
but what you are absolutely certain will be 
acceptable to the moudi. 

SANDWICHES, CAKE. Cut a sponge 
cake, a few days old, as for bread sand- 
wicJies, and spread strawberry jam or cur- 
rant jelly over them. 

. SAUCE. (1) Few tilings require more 
care than making sauces, as most of tliem 
diould be stirred constantly, tlie whole atten- 
tion should be directed to them ; tlie better 
way dierefore, is to prepare tlie sauces before 
cooking those articles which demand equal 
care; diey may be kept hot in the baiiu 



Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, 
OQi^t never to boil. 

The thickest stewpans should be used for 
making sauces, and wooden-spoons used 
fiir stirring tliem. 

SAUCE. (2) Mix together a pint of 
vinegar, two shadlots (nt beads of garlic, a 
tea-spoonful of cayenne, three large tabfe- 
apoonfuls of Indian soy or mushroom ketch- 
up, and two of walnut pickle. Let it stand 
a week, shaking it daily; strain, and bottle 
it for use. 

FOR ANY SORT OF MEAT. 

Boil and strain three table-spoonfiils of gra- 
vy^ two of vinegar, a blade of maoe, a little 
pappar, salt, and a large sliced onion. 



ANCHOVY. Ponadtoefl* 

chovies in a mortar with a little bit of bH* 
ter ; rub it throu^ a double hair sieve widi 
the back of a wooden spoon, and stir it imo 
alnMwt half a pint of melted butler ; or stir 
in a table-spocHifiil of essence of anchovj. 
To the above, nwiDy cooks add lemon<juioe 
and caymne. 



Pare, core, and 



APPLE. (1) 

slice some apples; boil the 
a bit of lemon-peel ; when tender, mash tbem; 
add to them a bit of butter th^«Be oft 
walnut, and some brown aiigar. Btat, and 
serve in a sauce-tureen. 

APPLE. (2) Pare and core 

three good-sized baking apples; put tliea 
into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with two 
table^poonfiib of coM water; cover tbe 
saucepan ckwe, and set it on a trivet o?er ■ 
slow 6re a couple of hours before dismr 
(some apples will take a long time slewing, 
others will be ready in a quarter of an hoar): 
when the apples are done enough, poor off 
the water, let tliem stand a few minutea to 
get dry ; tlien beat tliem up with a fork, 
with a bit of butter about as big as a ant* 
meg, and a tea-spoonfiil of powifered nigar. 

N. B. — Some add lemon-peel, grated, or 
minced fine, or boil a bit with the apples. 



ATTELETS. Take of finely. 

minced parsley, mushrooms, and shallots, a 
table-spoonful each ; fry them with a little bat- 
ter, and then dredge in a little flour; moistea 
the mixture with some good stock, seana 
it with pepper and salt, and boil it till it 
liegins to thicken; then take it off die ire, 
and add the well-beaten yolks of two or 
thiiee eggs. Stir it well aU tlie time it ii 
making. 



BEEF-GRAVY, or 



Sauce for Ragout, Game, PouUrff, 
Fiah, fyc. If you want gravy immedialelyt 
see Potato Soup, or Glaae. If you haw 
time enough, furnish a thick and welkinsed 
stewpan wiUi a tliin slice of sah p<Mk, or aa 
ounce of butter, and a raiddling-eiaedooion; 
on thi« Jay a pound of nice, juicy %tvrf 
beef, (as the object in making gravy k to 
extract the nocritiouB succulence t.f the meat, 
it must be beaten to comminute die coataia* 
ing vessels, aiid scored to augment the av^ 
face to the action of the water); cofer the 
/Aewpan, and set it on a slow fire; y^ 
the meat begim to browii, imu it aha^ 
and let it get slightly browned (bat ttke 
care it is not at all burned): then psiar ina 
pint and a half of boiling water; s rt^^ 
pan on ^' fire; when it boils, cuMf 
catch the scum, and then put in a cnata 
bread toasted brown (dont bum it) a 



SAUCES 



183 



SAUCES 



ipriff of whiter mvory, or lemoo thyme and 
pttf ri e y a roll of thui cot lemon-peel, a dox- 
eo berries of allspice, and a down of black 
pepper. Cover the slewpan cloee, and let 
It fltew very g^itly for about two houri, 
theD strain it trough a sieve into a basin. 
Now, if yoa wish to thicken it, set a clean 
siewpaa over a slow Aqb, with about an 
ooace of butter in it; when it is melted, 
dcet^ to it, by degrees, as much flour as 
will dry it up, stirring them well together ; 
when thoroughly mixed, pour in a little 
gravy etir it well together, and add the re- 
mainder by degrees ; set it over the fire, let 
it simmer gently for fifteen minutes lonser, 
skim off tl^ (at, &c. as it rises; when it is 
about as thick as cream,, squeeie it through 
a tamia or fine sieve^-and you will have a 
fine rich Brown Sauce, at a very moderate 
expenee, and without much trouble. 



'- FOR BOILED BEEF. Minoe 

a large onion, parboil it, and drain olf the 
water; put the onion into a saucepan, with 
a tabfe-spoooful of finely-chopped pursley, 
some good gravy, and one ounce of butter 
dndeod with a little fiour. Let it boil 
■earfy ten minutes, and add a spoonfiil of 
out capers, which must be thoroughly heat- 
ed before the sauce is sen etl. 

BROWN. Take a pound or 

two of steaks, two or three pounds uf veal, 
eooie^ pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, 
put all these into a saucepan %vith a. glass 
of water, and set it on a briKk fire; when 
scarcely any moisture remains, put it on a 
slow fire, that the jelly may take color with- 
out burning; and as soon as it is brown, 
sM>istea it with stock (or Water), add a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay- 
leflves, two cbves, ami some champignons, 
salt it well, and set it on the fire for three 
hours, tlien strain; dilute. a little roux with 
your liquor, and boil it an hour over a gentle 
fire, take off all the fiit, and run it tbrougli 
a bolting. 

BONNE BOUCHE, FOR 

Gooss, Dues, or roast Pork. Mix 
a tea-fipoonfiil of made mustard, a salt-spoon- 
fiil of salt, and a few grains of cayenne, in a 
ku^ wine-glas^l of claret or Port wine ; 
pour it into the goose by a sKt in the apron 
just before serving up ; or, as all the com- 
pany may not like it, stir it into a quarter 
of a pint of thick melted butter, or thicken- 
ed gravy, and send it up in a boat. A fa- 
vorite relish for roast p<^k or geese, &c. is, 
two ounces of leaves of green sage, an ounce 
of fresh lemon-peel pored thin, same of salt, 
tninced eschalot, and half a drachm of 
Cayenne pepper, ditto of ci^-ic acid, steeped 
fur h. fortnight in a pint ofclaret j shake it 



op weO every dav; let it stand a day to mlh 
tie, and decant the dear liquor; liouJe il, 
and cork it ckise ; a table-spoonfiil or mora 
in a quarter pint of gravy, or melted buttor. 

- BREAD. (1) Boil, in a pint of 



water, the crumb of a French roll or of a 
slice of bread, a minced onion, and sone 
whole pepper. When the onion is tender* 
drain off the water, pick out the pepper^ 
corns, and rub the bread through a sieve; 
then put it into a saucepan, with a gill of 
cream, a bit of butter, and a tittle sah. 
Stir it till it boil, and serve it in a i 



BREAD. (2) Mix, in rather 

more than half a pint of milk or water, a 
slice of grated bread, a dessert-spoonful of 
potato fkNir, a small onion pounded, a bit of 
butter the size of a walnut, a few whole 
pepper corns, a little mace, and salt. Boil 
It «vell, pick oat the spices, and mix it 
smooth. Serve quite hot. 

BREAD. (3) Put a small 



tea-cupful of bread crumbs into a stewpao, 
pour on it as mtich milk as it will soak up, 
and a little more; or instead of the milK, 
take the giblets, head, neck, and legs, &c. 
of the poultry, &c. and stew tliem, and 
moisten the bread with tliis liquor ; put it on 
the fire with a middling-sized onion, and a 
dozen berries o( pepper or allspice, or a lit- 
tle mace; let it boil, then stir it well, and 
let it simmer till it is qi^ite stiff, and then 
put to it about two table-spoonfub of cream 
or melted butter, or a little good broth; 
take out the onion and pepper, and it is 
ready. 

doM, — ^This is- an excellent accompani- 
ment to game and poultry. 



-: FOR BOILED MEAT, Game, 

AND Poultry, Bruise the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs with a Kttle water and salt; 
bone one anchovy, and mince it, a small on- 
ion, two shallots, a little parsk^y and tarra- 
gon, and a few capei^s ; mix tliem with the 
egg, add a table-spoonful of fine oil, a little 
mustard, two table-spoonfuls of lemon, and 
one of tan-agon vinegar; mix all exceed- 
ingly well together, put it into a sauce-tu- 
reen, and serve it with the broil ; or it may 
be served with cold veal. 

CAPER. To make a quarter 



of a pint, take a table-spoonful of capers, 
and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

The present feshion of cutting capers ie 
to mince one-third of them very fine, and 
divide tlie otiiers in half; put them into a 
quarter of a pint of melted butter, or good 
tiiickened gravy; stir tliem the same way 



SAUCES 



184 



SAUCES 



«IB yen did the melted butter, or it will oil. 
Some boil, and minoe fine a few leaves of 
parsley, or charvil, or tarragon, and add 
these to the sauce ; others the juice of half 
a Seville orange, or lemon. 

Keep the caper bottle veiy closely corked, 
and do not use any of the caper liquor: if 
the capers are not well covered with it, they 
will immediately spoil; and it is an excel- 
lent ingredient m hashes, &c. The Dutch 
use it as a fish sauce, mixing it with melted 
butter. 

CARRIER. Scrape a small 

stick of horse-i'adish, cut an onion or two 
in thin slices, put these into a sauce-tureen 
with a little vin^ar and whole pepper; set 
tlie tureen in tlie dripping-pan under a 
shoulder of mutton whilst roasting; serVe 
this sauce quite hot witli the meat. 



CELERY, WHITE. Pick and 

wash two heads of nice white celery ; cut it 
iulo pieces about an inch lung;, stew it in a 
pint of water, and a tea-spoonful uf salt, till 
the celery is tender ; roll an ounce of butter 
with a table-spoonfnl of flour; add this to 
half a pint of cream, and give it a boil up. 

CELERY PUREE, for boiled 

Turkey, Veal, Fotbla, fye. Cut small 
half H dozen heads of nice white celery that 
is quite clean, and two Anions slicrd; put 
in a two-qttart stewpan, with a siniatl lump 
of butler: sweat tliem over a slow fire till 
quite tender, then put in two bpoonfuls of 
flonr, half a pint of water (or beef or veal 
broth), {ialt and pepper, and a little cream or 
milk ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and pae« 
through a fine hair sieve with the back of a 
8fx>on. If you wish for fcelery sauc^e when 
celei-y is not in season, a quarter of a drachm 
of celery seed, or a little e^jsence of celeiy, 
will impregnate half a pint of ^a^ce with a 
sufficient portion of tJie flavor of the vege- 
tabk:. 



CHESTNUT, FOR ROAST 

TURKEY. Scald a pound «)f good chest- 
nuts in hot water for five minutes^ Akin tlieui, 
and Htew them slowlv for two hours in white 
stock, seasoned ancf thickened with butter 
and flour. Cut a pound of pork sausages 
into bits about an inch long, dut>t tliem with 
Hour, and fry them a light brown ; lay tliem 
into the dish on which the turkey is to be 
served, and pour the chestnuts and sauce 
over them. Some people prefer the fried 
sausages stewed a little with the chestnuts; 
but this method makes the sauce of a darker 
color. 



— CURRANT, FOR VENISON. 

Boil in water for a few minutes an ounce of 



nioely-cleaned curraBta, add three ld)&^ 

r>nful8 of grated bread, a piece of butler 
size of a walnut, four ck>ve8, and a glaa 
of Port wine; stii- it till it boil, and senre it 
hot. 



CURRY, Is nnide by 



Bufiicient quantity 4of curry powder, into gra- 
vy or melted butter, or onion sauce, or osioo 
gravy. The compositions of curry powder, 
and the palates of tliose who eat it, vary » 
much, that we caniiot recommend any Bpe> 
cific qiGintity. The cook most add it by 
degrees, tastmg as she proceeds, and take 
care not to put in too much. 

DUTCH. (l)Beatnpdie3foHu 

of six eggs, mix in a little flour, cream, sak, 
and lemon vinegar. Strain it throogfa a 
sieve, add a small piece of finesh butter, two 
blades of pounded mace, and a little pepper. 
Put it into a saucepan, atid stir it till it 
is almost boiling. 



DUTCH. (2) Pot into a stewpaa 

a tea-spoonful of flour, four table-spooofoaoT 
elder vinegar, a quarter of a pound of frcab 
butter, tlie yolks of five e^s, and a little 
salt ; keep stirring it ov^r the fire, and work 
it well till tlih-k. If it be not curdled, it 
will not n-^ui.e to be strained, desuoo 
with pepper. 

DUTCH, FOR Fish or Boii- 

ED .Fowls. Mix, with two oonoes ti 
fresh butter, one tea-spoonfiil of floor, two 
table-spoonfulil of cold water, the same 
quantity of vin^far, and one well-beaten 
egg ; put it into a saucepan, and stir it over 
the fire till it be quite hot, but do not allow 
it to boil. 

- EGG. (1) This agreeable arcoia- 



paniment to i*oaj«ted poultry, or saked (kIh 
is made by putting three eggs into boiling 
water, and boiling them for about twehe 
minutes, when they will be hai"d ; put tbea 
into cold water fill yon want them. 'ITiis 
will make the yolks firmer, and- prereBt 
their surface turning black, ai>d yo« caofnt 
them much neater: use only two of the 
whites, cut the whites into small dice, ike 
yolks into bits aliout a quartor of an inch 
square; put tliem into a saoce-boat; poor 
to them half a pint of melted butter, and 
stir them together. 

If you are for superlative egg 8aiiee» 
pound the yolks of a couple of eggs, and rob 
them with the melted butter to thicken it 

N. B. — Some cooks garnish sak fish with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in half. 



EGG. (2) Boil three or ft* 
a Quartei' of an hour, put ifaen 



eggs about a quartei' of an hour, put 



SAtTCES 



185 



8AOCE8 



into ooM water, take off die 8helb» cut three 
of the whites and four yolka into small 
'aces, mix them with melted butter, ami 
at it well. 

ESCHALOT. Take four ( 



dialots, and make it in the same manner as 
garlic sauce. Or, you may soake this sauce 
more extempcn-aneously by putting two table- 
spoonfiris of eschalot wine, and a sprinkling 
«if pepper and salt, into (almost) half a pint 
of thick melted birtter. This is an excellenr 
sance far chops or steaks; many are very 
food of it with roasted or boiled meat, 
poultry, &c. 

ESCHALOT, FOR BOIL- 



ED MUTTON. This is a very frequent 
and satisfecUNTv substitute for caper sauce. 
Mince ibur esdialots vei^ fine, and put than 
into a small saucepan, with almost half a pint 
o( the liquor the mutton was boiled in: let 
them boil up for five minutes ; then put in a 
table-spoonful of vinegar, a quarter tea-«>poon- 
fbl <if pepper, a little salt, and a bit of butter 
(as big as a walnut) rolled in flour; shake 
together till it boils. 

ESOAVEKE SAUCE, for 

Cold Game, Fowl, or Mkat. Beat, 
in a marble mortar, the (bUowingnngredients : 
five cloves of garlic, six cloves of shal- 
lot, as much pounded ginger as will lie ufxMi 
a sixpence, and the same of cayenne, a ta- 
ble-spoonful of coriander seed, and a little 
salt. Pour upon them, boiling hot, a pint 
of the best white wine vinegar; add the peel 
of a lemon, cut very thin. When cold, put 
the whole into a bottle, cork it tightly, and 
diake it well before using. 

FOR FISH. (1) The melted 



butter for fish, should be thic.k enough to ad- 
here to the fish, and, therefore, must be of the 
thickness of light batter, as it is to he dilut- 
ed with essence of anchovy, soy, mushroom 
ketchup, cayenne, or Chili vinegar, lemons 
or lemon-juice, or artificial lemon-juice, &c. 
which are expected at all well-served tables. 
Cooks, who are jealous of the reputation of 
their taste, and housekeepers who value their 
health, will prepare these articles at home: 
there are quite as many reasons why they 
should, as there are for the preference usually 
given to home-baked bi'ead, and home-lniew'- 
ed beer. The liver of the fish pounded and 
mixed with parsley and butter, with a little 
lemon-juice, &c. is aa elegant and inofiensive 
relish to fish. 



FOR FISH. (2) Two wine-glass- 
es of Port, and two of walnut pickle, four of 
mushroom ketchup, half a dozen anchovies, 
'ixMmded, the like number of eschabts sliced 
16* 



avd' pounded, • taUempoonfiil of toy, mad 
half a drachm of cayenne pepper; let them 
simmer sently for ten minutes ; strain it, and 
when cold, put it into bottles, weil corked, 
and seaksd over, it will keep for a oowidenk- 
ble time. 

Obs. — ^This is oomroonly called Qilloli 



FOR FISH. (S) A tabb- 

spoonfiil of anchovy juice, one of soy, and 
two of mushroom ketchup, mixed in a quar- 
ter of a pound of melted butter. 

FOR FISH. (4) Three aneho- 

vies and an onion chopped, and a small bit 
of horseradish boiled in some stock, then 
strained, and thickened with a piece of but- 
ter relied in flour. 

-FOR FISH. (5) Boil m half a 



pint of water one or two anchovies, two 
cloves, a b^ade of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, 
a few pepperoorns, and two table-spoonfiils 
of Port wine; strain and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. 

-FOR FISH. (6) Mix wen with 



two ounces of melted butter, of mushroom 
ketchup, essence of ancliovies, and lemon 
pickle, a table-spoonful, each, a tea-spoonful 
of soy, and a little cayenne. Boll it before 

serving. 

• FOR FISH. (7) Chop two do«m 



of whole anchovies, mix with them half a 
pint of anchovy liquor, two shallots cut small, 
and three pints of Port wine, one of vinegar, 
one k^mon sliced, one handfiil of scraped 
horsei-adish, and ten blades of mace, one 
nutmeg, twelve peppereorns, six cloves, ail 
bruised, and one table-spoonfiil of flour of 
mustard. Boil these together about fiftci^n 
or twenty minutes; when cold, strain and 
bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep 
good a year. A table-spoonful improves 
oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient 
for a sauce-tureen of melted butter. 

-FOR FISH. (8) A quart of Port 



wine, half a pint of best vinegar, one pound 
of bruised anchovies, one ounce of mace and 
one of cloves, half an ounce of pepper, one 
lai'ge oniun, and tlie peel of one lemon; boil 
all these in^-edients together, over a slow 
fire, till a. pint is wasted; then strain, and 
bottle it, and keep it closely stopped. 

FISH OR MEAT S4UC^,TO MAKE 
A QUART BOTTLE OF. To half a 
bottle of vinegar put one ounce of cayenne, 
two cloves of garlic, one table-spoonfiil of 
soy, two of walnut, and two of mueA|room 
ketchup. Let it stand six days, shaking it 



SAUCES 



186 



SAUCES 



fireqnently, then add the remabinff half of 
die bottle of vinegar; let it stand another 
week, BtraiD, and pat it into sinall bottles. 

WHITE, FOR FISH, Fonr 

anobovies chopped, tvio glasses of white 
wine, a large one of vinegar, an onion stuck 
with three cloves, and cut into quarters ; let 
all these simmer till die anchovies dissolve ; 
■train it, and add a quarter of a pound of 
butter kneaded in a table-^x)onful of 6our. 
When it has melted, stir in gradually, one 
way, half a pint of cream, taking care that 
it do not boil. When tlioroughly lieated, 
■erve in a sauce-tureen. 

- LIVER, FOR FISH. Boil the 



liver of the fish, and pound it In a mornir 
with a little flour; stir it into some broth, 
or Bome of the liquor the Bsh was boiled in, 
or melted butter, parsley, and a few grains 
of cayenne, a little essence of anchovy, or 
■oy, or ketchup; give it a bojl up, and rub 
it through a sieve: you may add a little lem- 
on-juice, or lemon cut in dice. 

. PINK, FOR FISH. Put into a 



pan, or. wide-mouthed jar, one quart of good 
vin^ar, half a pint of Port wine, half an 
ounce of cayenne, one large table-spoonful 
of walnut ketchup, two ditto of anchovy 
liquor, a quarter ot* an ounce of cochineal, 
and six cloves of garlic. Lei it remain forty 
hours, stirring it two or three times a-day ; 
run it dirough a flannel bag, and put it into 
half-pint bottles. 

. FOR PIKE, Mix with a pint 

of cream a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 
the same of soy, and two of ketchup, a 
piece of butter rolled in flour ; put it into a 
saucepan, and stir it one way till nearly 
boiling. 

■ WHITE, FOR PIKE. Simmer 



till half wasted, two table-spoonfuts of white 
wine, one of vinegar, half a small onion, and 
some grated nutmeg ; add a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, dien a small tea-cupful of 
cream ; heat it thoroughly, stirring it all the 
time, and taking care that it do not boil. 

-GREEN GOOSEBERRY, Boil 



some green gooseberries in water, till soA, 
and sweeten them with brown sugar. 

GOOSEBERRY. Top and tail 

them close with a pair of scissors, and scald 
half a pint of green (^ooeebories; drain them 
on a liair sieve, and put them into half a 
pint of melted butter. Some add grated 
ginger and lemon-peel, and the French, min- 
eed fennel ; others send up the gooseberries 
iNrfaole or maslied, without any butter, &c. 



GOOSE STUFFING, (hop 

very line an ounce qf onion and half an cano6 
of green sage leaves ; put them into a stew- 
pan with four spoonfuls of waver ^ sinuner 
gently for ten minutes; then put in a tea^ 
spoonful of pepper and salt, and one ounce 
of fine bread crumbs; mix well together; 
then pour to it a quarter of a pint of brodi, 
or gmvy, or melted butter, tjtir well tc^tb* 
^r, and simmer it a few minutes loogo*. 



GRANDE. Take diree or fbv 

slices from the under part of a knuckle of 
veal, and put them into a large stewpaa 
with two ladlefiils of eonaomme, set it oo a 
fierce fire, taking care to skim it as nnicb as 
possible, and with a cloth wipe away all 
that adheres to the ineide of the stewpaoj 
when the contomme is reduced, prick die 
slices with. a knife to let out the gravy; then 
set the stewpan on a slow fire, that the meat 
and glaae may adliere together, and as soon 
as the lattei is of a clear light color, take it 
off, leave it covered for ten minutes, thes fill 
it up with rich stock, in which is four or 
five large carrots, and three onions; let it 
b()if slowly for two hours. In the meaDtime 
put the knuckle into a saucepan with four or 
five carrots, as many onions (one stuck with 
cloves), and two ladlefiils of consomme; 
set it on a brisk fire tliat the liquor may re- 
duce to a jelly ; as soon as this jelly begins 
to take color, pour on it the liquor from the 
other saucepan to dissolve the jelly gr^dioJ- 
ty; tben make it boil. Dilute some rotix 
w'jth the above liquor, and add it to the meal 
with aofoe champignons, a bunch of parslg, 
scat] ions, and two bay-leaves, skim it wbeo 
it begins to boil, and again when the rota 
is added, put in moi-e consomme or roux, 
according ps it is too thick or too thin. 

When it has boiled an hour and a batf, 
take off all the fat ; aud when the meat is 
quite done, strain the sauce through a bol- 
ting-cloth. 

GRILL. To half a pint of graty, 

add an ounce of firesh butter, and a table- 
spooi^ul of flour, previously well rubbed to* 
getber, tlie same of musdiroom or walimt 
ketchup, two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-jaice, 
one of made mustard, one of minced capers, 
half a one of black pepper, a quarter of » 
rind of a lemon grated very thin, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little 
eschalot wine, or a ver\' small piece of min- 
ced eschalot, and a little Chili vinegar, or a 
few grains of cayenne ; simmer together fix 
a few minutes ; pour a little of it over die 
grill; and send up die rest in a 8 



HARVEY, Chop twehe i 

vies, bones and all, very small, with one 
ounce of cayenne pepper, aix ffxranfuls of 



SAUCES 



187 



SAUCES 



BQjy, SIX ditto of flood walnut pickle, three 
lieads of garlic, dio|;^ped not very small, a 
qoarter of an <jiioce of cochineal, two headii 
or diaUots, cliopped not very smafl, oAe gal- 
bo of vinegar; let it stand fourteen days, 
stir it well, twice or thrice every day ; then 
pass it throogb a jelly-bag, and repeat this 
till it is perfectly clear; then bottle it, and 
tie a Uadder met the cork. 

HORSERADISH, TO EAT 

WITH Hot or Ck>LD Meat. Mix a tea- 
qpoonfiil of mustard, a table-epoon/ul of vin- 
egar, and three of cream ; add a little^ salt, 
and aa much finely-grated horseradish as 
w91 make the sauce the consbtence of 



FOR HASHES AND MADE 

DISHES. A pint of Port wine, twelve 
anchovies chopped, a quarter of a pint of 
vinegar, as much beaten pepper as will lie 
on half a crown, two or three cloves, a 
blade or two of mace, a nutmeg bruised, 
one small onion minced, two bay-leaves, a 
tittle -lemoB thyme, marjoram, and parcley, 
and a piece of horseradish sLbout the length 
<t( a finger split into quarters ; put all into a 
sauo^ian,' and let it simmer till the ancho- 
vies are dissolved ; then strain it, and, when 
eeld, bottle it for lue. 



FOR HASHED OR MINCED 

VEAL. Take the bones of cold roast or 
boiled veal, dredge them wdl with ilonr, 
and put them into a stewpan with a pint 
and a half of broth or water, a small onion, 
a little grated or finely-minced lemon-peel, 
or the peel of a^quarter of a small lemon, 
pai^ as thin as possible, half a teanspoonfiil 
of salt, and a blade of pounded mace ; to 
thicken it, rub a table-spoonful of flour into 
half an ounce t>f butler ; stir it into^ the 
broih, and set it on the fire, and let it boil 
vtfy gieaily for about half an hour; strain 
through a tamis or sieve, and it is ready to 
put to the veal to warm up ; which is to be 
done by placing the stewpan by the side of 
the fire. Squeeze in half a lemon, and cov- 
er the bottom of tlie dish with toasted bread 
sippets cat into triangles, and garnish the 
dish with slices of ham or bacon. 

FOR HASHES OF MUTTON 

OR BEEF. Unless you aie quite sure you 
perfectly understand the palate of those you 
are working for, show those who are to 
eat the hash this receipt, and beg of them to 
direct you how they wi^h it seasoned. 

Half the number of the ingredients enu- 
nnerated will be more than enough: but as it 
is a receipt so often wanted we have given 
variety* 

Chop the bones and firagmenU of the Joint, 



flee., and put them into • stewpan; ooftf 
them with Iwiling water, six berries of 
black pepper, die same of allspice, a small 
bundle of parBley> half a head of celery cut 
in pieces, and a small sprig of savory,. or 
lemon thyme, or sweet marjoram ; cover up, 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour. 

Slice half an ounce of onion, and put it 
into a stewpan with an ounce of batter; dry 
it over a sliarp fire fiir about a coupfe of 
minutes, till it takes a little color; then stir 
in as much flour as will make it a stiff 
paste, and by d cgi n uce mix with it the gravj 
vou faiave ma^ worn the bones, &c. ; let it 
boil vei^ gently for about a quarter of an 
hour, till it is the eonsistence of cream; 
strain it through a tamis or sieve into a htt- 
nn ; pot it bacit into the stewpan: to seasoo 
it, cut in a few pickled onions, or walnuts, 
or a couple of gherkins, and a table-spoonfid 
of mnrihroom ketchup, or walnut or other 

{>ickl& liquor ; or sosoe capers, and caper 
iquor; or a table-spoonful of ale; or a littb 
esclialot, or tarragon vinegar; cover the bot- 
tom of the dish with sippets of bread (that 
they may become savory res^^oirs of gra- 

?'), which some toast and cut into triangles, 
ou may garnish it with firied bread sippets. 
N. B. — ^To hash meat in perfection, it 
should be laid In this gravy only just long 
enough to get properly warm through. 

0o8. — If any of 4n3 gray}- that was sent 
up with, or ran fiiom the joint when it was 
roasted, be leA, it will be a great improve- 
ment to the ha^. 

If you wish to make mock venison, instead 
of the onion, put in two or three doves, a 
il of c 



tafole-spoonful of currant jelly, and the t 
quantity of claret or Poit wine, instead of 
the ketchup. 

You may make a curry hash by adding 
some curry iam. 

N. B. — ^A pint of Beef-gravy Sauce is an 
excellent gravy to warm up eitlwr meat or 
poultry. 

KELLY'S, FOR BOILED 

Tripe, Calf-head, or Cow-hbei.. 
Garlic vinegar, a tablcHspoonfiil ; of mustard, 
brown sugar, and black pepper, a tea^epoon- 
^ each ; stirred into haJf a pint of oiled 
melted butter. 

-KELLY*SPIQUANTE. Poand 



a table-spoonful of capers, and one of minced 
parsley, as fine as possible; then add the 
yolks of three hard eggs, rub them well to- 
gether with a table-spoonful of mnstard; 
bone six anchovies, and pound them, rub 
them through a hair sieve, and mix with two 
table-spoonfiils of oil, one of vinegar, one of 
eschalot ditto, and a few gi-ains of cayenne 
pepper; rub all tliese well together in a 
mortar, till thoroughly incorporated; then 



SAUCES 188 

•tir them into half a pint of l 
«iielted butter, and put the whole ( 
«ie^ 



SAUCES 



LEMON. Pare a lemon, and 

cut it iato slices twice as thick as a balf- 
^rown piece ; divide these into dice, and put 
them into a quaiter of a pint of melted out- 
ter. Some cooks mince a bit of the lemon- 
peel (pared very thin) very fine, and add it 
to ^ above. 

LGMON AND LIVER. Pare 

■off the rind of a lemon, or of a Seville orange, 
as thin as possible, so as not to cut off any 
of the white with it; now cut off all the 
white, and cut the lemon into slices about 
as thick as a couple of half-crowns ^ pick out 
the pips, and divide the slices into small 
squares: add these, and a little of the peel 
minced very fine to the liver, prepared as 
directed above, and put them into the melted 
butter, and warm them together ', but do not 
let them boil. 

N. B. — The poulterere can always let you 
have fresh livers, if that of the fowl or rabbit 
is not good, or hot large enough to make as 
much sauce as you wish. 
* Ob*, — Some cooks, instead of pounding, 
mince the liver very fine (with half as much 
bacon), and leave out the parslev; others 
add tlie juice of half a lemon, andf some of 
the peel grated, or a tea-epoon(ul of tan-agon 
or Cliili vinegar, a table-spoonful of white 
VMne, or a little beaten mace, or nutme?, 
or allspice: if you wish it a little more lively 
on the palate, pound an eschalot, or a few 
leaves of tarragon or basil, with anchovy, or 
ketchup, or cayenne. 

■ LIVER AND PARSLEY, OR 



LIVER AND LEMON. Wash the liver 
(it -must be perfectly firesh) of a fowl or rab- 
bit, and boil it five minutes in five table- 
spoonfuls of water; chop it fine, or pound 
or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor 
it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve: 
wash about one-third the bulk of parsley 
leaves, put them on to boil in a little boiling 
water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it; lay 
it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it very 
fine; mix it with the liver, and put it into a 
quarter pint of melted iMitter, and warm it 
up; do not let it boiL 

— LOBSTER. (1) Bruise the body, 

add it to some thick melted butter; pull the 
fiesb into small bits, and mix all together 
witli some rich beef gravy; boil it up, and 
before sei-ving add a litUe sak, and squeeze 
in a little lemon-juice. 

LOBSTER. (2) Pound very 

finely the spawn of a lobster, rub it through 



a sieve, mix it with a qnarier of a poond 
of melted butter, tlien add the meat of the 
lobster cut into small bits. Make it quite 
hot, but do not allow k to boil. 

LOBSTER. SteLohOer, 



FOR L015STER. Bruise the 

yolks of two hard-boiled ^gs with die back 
of a wooden spoon, or rat^ pound them in 
a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water, and 
the soft inside and the spawn of the lobster; 
rub them qiute smoodi, with a tea-spoodiil 
of made mustard, two table-spooDfols dT 
salad oil, and five of vinegar; season iiwith 
a very little cayenne pepper, and some salt. 



LOVE-APPLE, ACPORDWG 

TO UDE. Meit in a stewpan a doseo w 
two of love-apples (whieb, before pottii^ b 
the stewpan, cut in two, and sqpeese the 
juice and tlie seeds out) ; then pot two et* 
chalots, one onion, with a few bits of bam, 
a clove, a little diyme, a bay-leaf, a few 
leaves of mace, and when melted, rab them 
through a tamis. Mix a few spoonfiik of 
good Espagnole or Spanish sauoe, and a 
Tittle salt aiul pepper, with this puree. BoQ 
it lor twenty minutes, and asrre up. 



MINT. (1) Pick and wash 

some green mint ; add, when minced, a 
table-spoonful of the voung leaves, to loor 
of vinegar, and put ft into a sance-tureeo, 
with a tea-spoonfiil of brown sugar. 

MINT. (2) Wash half a hand- 

ful of nic^, young, fresh-gathered green mint 
(to this some add one-third the quantity of 
parsley) ; pick the leaves from the stub, 
mince them very fine, and put them into a 
sauce-boat, with a tea-epoonful of moist m- 
gar, and four table-spoonfuls of vin^ar. 

MOCK CAPKl. Oa tme 

pickled green pease, French beans, gtierkins, 
or nasturtiums, into bits the size of capere; 
put tliem into half a pint of melted batter, 
with two tea-spoonfiils of )»non-jttice, or 
nice vinegai". 

. MOCIC 6ySTER. Put into a 



sauo^mn two or three chopped anchovies, a 
quarter of a pint of water, a little mace, and 
one or two cloves ; let them simmer till the 
anchovies be quite dissolved. Strain it,aod 
when cool, add a tea-cupfiil of cream ; tbi(^* 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in floor, 
and heat it up. It may be poured over 
boiled fowls or veal. 

MOCK TOMATA. The only 



difference between this and genuine hn^ 
apple sauce, is the substituting the pulp ^ 



SAUCES 

^ite BDoodi, and page it through i 



190 



SAUCES 



06«. — ^To the above, some add an an- 
cbovy, or a table-6poon(ul of moafaroom 
ketcbap, or walnut pickle, some finely-chop- 
ped paraley, grated horMradiah, or young 
<N)ioD8 minced, or bumet, iKNTsaudish or 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, &c^ and cay- 
enne or mlaoed pickles, capen, &c. Tbiu 
is upiquanU reliih ix lobsterB, crabs, cold 
iUi,&c. 

■ SALAD OR PIQUANT, FOR 



COLD Meat, Fish, &c. -Pound together 
an ounce of scraped horwradish, l»lf an 
oonoe of salt, a tableHBpoooAil of made mus- 
tard, four drachms of minced eschalots, 
half a drachm of celery seed, and half ditto 
of cayenne, addin|[ gradually a pint of bur- 
net, or tarragon vinegar, and let it stand in 
a jar a wedc, and thai pass it through a 



r POIVRADEs FOR COLD 

MEAT. (1) Chop finely six shalk)ts and a 
handfol of picked and washed parsley; mix 
with it a liule vinegar, mustard, cayenne 
i cold gravy, and salt. 



POIVRADE, FOR COLD 



MEAT. (2) Bi-uise the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg with a little salt and mustard, 
oil, soy, cliopped paisley, and chives, and 
pour it over slices of any cold meaL 

PUDDING. Mix widi half a 



pint of melt««l Umer two wine-ghunes of 
sherry, and a table-spoonful of pounded 
Joaf sugar ; make it quite hot, and ser^e in 
a sauce-tureen, with grated nutmeg on the 



QUIN'S. (1) Half a pint of 
pickle, the same of walnui pickle, 
tbi«e wiMile and three ponnded cloves of 
garlic, six anch<ivie8 bruised, and a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne. Mix all together in a 
.arge bottle, shake it daily for three weeks, 
th^ strain, and bottle it for use. 

QUIN'S- (2) One pint of 

Port wine, one of mushroom ketchup, one 
of walnut liqtior, one of essence of ancho- 
vies, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne; mix 
all together, and boil it fur a quarter of an 
hour. If essence of anchovies, is not to be 
had, boil h;ilf a pound of anchovies in a 
quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, 
and use it. 



REVEREND. Chop up 



Jenon^peel, and two or three pickled cu- 
cuoabeiv^ put them into a stewpan with 
two spoonfuls (jf Gttllis« a little buUer lolled 



in floor, aeason with salt and pepper, pal 
It on the fire, and make it quite iiot withoot 
boiling, stirring all the time, make a Hauom. 
with yolks of eggs, and serve. 

— — RICE. Steep a quarter of » 
pound of rice in a pint of milk, with uni<», 
pepper, &c. as in the hst receipt; wheD 
the rice is quite tender (take out the spiof ), 
rob it through a sieve into a clean stewpaa: 
if loo thick, pot a little milk or cream to it. 

OU.->This is a verv delicate mkatb 
sauce; and at elegant tai>le8 is fivqoently 
served instead of bread sauce. 

FOR ROAST BEEF. (I) Mix 

well together a larae tabJe-spoonfiil of 
finely^grated horsenKtash, a deMert-epooa- 
fiil of made mustard, and half a one of 
brown sugar, then add vinegar till it I e as 
thick as made mustard. Serve in a aauoe- 



FOR ROAST BiffiF. <2) Pw 

into a ptone jar one gill of soy, two of vine- 
eaf, two of water, a good-siied stick of 
hmveradish, and two sliced onions. Cover 
tlie jar closely, and set it into a pan of coU 
water; when it boils, let it simmer for two 
or three hours. 

- ROBART, FOR Beef Steaks 



OR MuTTOir Chops. Put into a saucepan 
a litUe gravy, two ounces of butter dredged 
with flour, a snmll tdice of raw ham, and 
two or three minced onions ; wlien the on- 
ions are browned, dust in a litile mora 
flour, and add nearly a pint of gravy, a lit^ 
tie sak and pepper, a tea-spoonfol of mus- 
tard, and a table^spoonfui of vinegar. Boil 
it for some minutes, strain and mstve it. 

• SALAD. (1) Bruise the yolk 



of a hard-boiled eg? with a small I , 
fill of salt, tlien wad a dessert-spuonfol of 
mustard, and stir in gradually a hirge table- 
spoonfiil of olive oij, oiled butter, or cream, 
then by degrees mrx in two or three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegary serve it in a sauce- 
tureen, or mix it with the salad. Instead 
of the hard egg, some persons prefer tha 
sauce made with the yolk raw. 

SALAD. (2) Rub smooth a 

hard-boiled egg, beat well a raw egg, and 
mix them together with a little water, a 
tea-spoonful of salt, one of cayenne, one of 
pepper, and one of mustard, a tabiewspoon- 
ful of vinegar, one of essence of anchovies, 
and five of rich creani> 

The aitist, as he styled himself, who in- 
vented this salad sauce drm'e in his carriaas 
to his employers, and charged tliem tea shil- 
lings and sixpence Uv each visit J 



SAUC£9 



180 



SAtTC£d 



Mpp\e ^r that of tomata, ooloring it with 
tomeric, and oommonicaiing an acid flavor 
4o it by vioegar. 

MUSHROOM. Pick and pe^l 

.haV a pint of minfarooms (the Boialler the 
better) ; wash them very clean, and put them 
into a aancqmn, with half a pint of veal 
gravy or milk, a little pepper and salt, and 
an ounce of batter rubbed with a table-epoon- 
lol of flour ; stir them together* and set them 
over a gentle fire, to stew slowly till tender ; 
ikim and strain it. 

Ofr««-^It will be a great improvement to 
this, and the two following sauces, to add to 
them the jnioe of half a doeen mushroon^, 
prepared the day before, by sprinkling them 
with sak, the same as when you make ketch- 
up; <M* add a kurge spoonfiil of good douUe 
BHvhroom ketchup. 

fiee Quintessence of Mushrooms. 

MUSHKOOM, FOR BOILED 

;TvRKKT OA Fowl. Pick deaon and 
wash a pint of small mndirooms, ryb them 
with flannel, put them into a saucepan with a 
blade of mace, a little salt, grated nutmeg, 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a pint 
of cream, keep stirrinff ihem till they boil, 
then pour them round the turk^, fowl, en* 
chicken* 

-WHITE ONION. The follow- 



ing is a more mild and delicate preparation : 
take half a dozen of the largest and whitest 
onions (the Spanish are the mildest, but 
•Ibese can only oe had from August to De- 
cember); peel them and cut them in half, 
food lay them in a pan of spring water for a 
quarter of an hour, and then boil for a quar- 
ter of an hour; and then, if you wish them 
to taste very mild, poor off that water, and 
corar them with fresli boilins water, and let 
them boil till they are tender, which will 
aometimes take three-<]UEuters of an hour 
bnger. 

ONION. Boil twelve or more 



onions in water; wh^ it boils, pour it ofl^, 
add more hot water, and when the onions 
are lender, strain and mash them in a-bowl, 
add a piece of butter, a little salt, and one 
oi* two spoonAils of cream. Heat it before 
serving. An apple may be boiled with the 
onions. 

ONION, OR ONION GRAVY . 

Peel and slice the onions (some put in an 
equal quantity of cucumber or celery) into a 
fiuart stewpan, with an ounce of butter ; set 
it on a slow fire, and turn the onion about 
till it is very lightly browned; now gradually 
stir in half an ounce of flour; add a little 
broth, and a little pepper and salt; boil up 



for a few minotss; add a tabl»«pooB(iit «f 
claret, or Port wine, and same of miab- 
room ketchup, (you raa^ riiarpen it with s 
little lemon^joioe cht vin^ar), and nib if 
through a tanus or fine sieve. Curry powdir 
will convert this into excelleDt curry saine. 

N. B.— -If this sauce is for steaks, ahred 
an ounce of onione, firy them a nice brows, 
and put them to the sauce you have robbed 
through a tamis; or some very small, rosod, 
young silver button onions, peeled and boil' 
ed tender, and put in whole when your saooe 
is done, will be an acceptable addition. 

06«. — If you have no broth, put in half a 
pint of water, and just before you give it the 
last boil up, add to it another tabfe-epooolbl 
of mushroom ketchup, or the same qosuti^ 
of Port wine or good ale. The flavor of 
this sauce may be varied by adding tanagoo 
or bumet vinegar. 



ONION. See Onion, 

ORANGE GRAVY, fob wild 

Di^cKS, Woodcocks, Snipes, Widg- 
eon, Teal, &c. Set on a saucepan tvidi 
half a pint of veal ^vy; add to it half a 
dozen leaves of basil, a snoall onion, and a 
roll of orange or lemon peel, and let it boil 
up for a few minutes, and strdin it off'. Put 
to the clear gravy the juice of a Seville or- 
ange, or lemon, half a tea-spooufol of sah, 
the same of pepper; and a glass of red wine; 
send it up hot. Esclialot and cayenne any 
be added. This is an excellent sauce for 
all kinds of wild water-fowl. 

Gravies should always be sent up io a 
covered boat:, they keep hot longer; aod it 
leaves it to the choice of the company to 
partake of them or not. 

—OYSTER. SeeOyUen, 

PIQUANT. Put a little chop- 

ped shallot and a few spoonfuls of gravy is- 
io a saucepan ; let it boil till the gravy be 
nearly boiled away, iMJt not btimed Ui the 
bottom of the saucepan; add as mnch 
braise as may be required for the saooOi 
season with pepper and s)«Jt, boil it a few 
minutes, then add a little lenion-juioe, sugar, 
and a tea-spooofol of garlic vinegar. 

N, B,— ^Braise is an onion eiwk wih 
cloves, and boiled till tender in gravy and 
white wine. 

PIQUANT, for cold Mid, 

Game, Poultry, 'fHsh, fyc. or Salodi, 
Pound in a mortar the yolks of two (ffli 
that have been lx>iled hard with a mualara- 
spoonfol of made mustard, and a little pep* 
per and salt ; add two table-spoonfub of nl* 
ad oil ; mix well, and then add three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; rub it up well till it ii 



SACCfiS 



191' 



SAOcfia 



SAUCES. 8n alae Oravy, pmg€ 89. 



-SHALLOT. (l)Boilafew 



ed shallotB io a little clear gravy and nearly 
as mueh vinegar^ add a few peppercorns aod 
a little Bak. Strain, and serve it ia a 



SHALLOT. (2) Take two spoon- 

iiik of the liquor the meat was boiled in, two 
qieonfuls of viii^far, two or three shallots cut 
fine, and a little salt; put. these ingredjents 
iato a saucepanj: with a bit of butter rolled 
in floor; let it stew a little, and serve it up 
with yeur mattoo or beef. 



SHARP, FOR VENISON. 

Put into a silver, or very clean and welU 
tinned saucepan, hatf a pint of tlie best 
white wine vinq^, and a- quarter of a 
pound of loafsugar pounded: set it over the 
fire, and let it simmer gently; i^im it care- 
' "v; pour it through a tamis or fine sieve, 

I send it up in a basin. 

Obs, — Some people like this better than 
the sweet wine sauces. 

-SHRIMP. (1) Pick some shrimps 



fiillv; 
and s( 



nicely from the shell, put them into melted 
butter, add a tablenspoonful of lemon pickle 
and vinegar ; heat it. 

SHRIMP. (2) Shell a pint of 



shrimps; pick them clean, wash them, and 
put them into half a pint of good melted 
Dutter. A pint of unshelled shrimps is about 
enonpi for four persons. 

06». — Some stew the heads- and shells 
of the shrimps, (with or without a blade 
of bruised mace), for a quarter of an hour, 
and strain off the liquor to melt the iMJtter 
with, and add a little lemon-juice, cayenne, 
and essence of anchovy, or soy, cavice, 
&c. ; but the flavor of the shrimp is so deli- 
cate, that it will be overcome by any such 
additions. 

Mkm. — If vour shrimpn are not quite 
fiiesh, they will eat tough and thready, as 
other stale fish do. 



— SORREL. (1) Pick and wash 
i sorrel, put it into a stewpan with a lit- 
tle water, stir it, to prevent its buminff, and 
when it is tender, drain and mince it finely ; 
fry it for half an hour in a stewpan with a 
little buttrr, then dredge in a table-spoonful 
of floor, moisten it wi£ bcHling cream, and 
let it stew OQ a slow fire for an hour ; add a 
little salt, and if too acid, a. little sugar. 
Bdbre serving, thicken with the beaten yolks 
of four eggs. 



SORREL. (2) Pick and thor- 

ooghly wash two double handfub of young 



Borra, WW dram it fimi water^ and unn pdl t 
it into a stewpan, well covoned with a bit of 
butter, and let it stew very gently over a slow 
fire; when done, put it to drain ou asieve for 
three minutes, then, with a wooden spoon, 
rub it through a tammy into a dish; pot it 
into a stewpan, with a bit of botCer, stir* 
ring it over tiie fire till thorough^ mixed ; 

SNi may add, if you choose, thiw spoon* 
Is of good consomme, and when it has 
boiled for a few minutes, add to it half as 
much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if 
necessary season witli a little sak; this is 
proper for a friamdtan of veal or cnlkrscs 

SUPERLATIVE, daret, or 

Port wine, and mwfaroom ketchup, a pint of 
each. Half a pint of walnut or other pickle 
liquor. Pounded anchovies, kiat ounces. 
Fresh lemon-peel, pared very thin, an ounce. 
Peeled and sliced eschakrts, the same. 
Scraped horseradish, ditto. AUspioe, and 
blaX^ pepp^ powdered, half an ounce each. 
Cayenne, one drachm, or curry-powder, 
three drachms. Celery-seed bruised, one 
drachni. All avoirdupois weisfat. Put 
these into a wide-mouthed bottle, stop it 
ckise, shake it up every day for a fortnight, 
and strain it (wlien some think it imprm^ 
by the addition of a quarter of a pint of soy, 
or thick browning), and you will have a 
« delicious double relish." Dr. Kitdiiner 
says, this composition is one of tiie *' chefii 
d'ceuvre " of maiw experiments he has made, 
for the purpose of enabling the good house- 
wives of Great Britain to prepare their own 
sauces: it is equally agreeable with fish, 
game, poultry, or ragouts, &c., and as a 
fair lady may make it herself, its relish will 
be not a little augmented, by the certainty 
that all the ingredients are good and whole- 
some. 

Obs ,-^Under an infini^ of circumstances, 
a cook may be in want of'^the substances ne- 
cessary to make ssvice: the above composi- 
tion of the several articles from which the 
various gravies derive their flavor, will be 
found a very admirable extemporaneous sub- 
stitute. By mixing a large tablenspoonful 
with a quarter of a pint of thickened melted 
butter, or broth, five minutes will finish a 
boat of very relishing sauce, nearly equal to 
drawn gravy, and as likely to put your Un- 
gual nerves into good humor as any thing 1 
know. 

To make a boat of sauce for poultry, &c. 
put a piece of butter about as big as an e^ 
into a stewpan, set it on the fire ; when it 
is mehed, put to it a table-spoonful of flour; 
stir it thoroughlr together, and add to it 
two table-spoonfiib Of sauce, and by d^rees 
about half a pint of broth, or boiling water, 
let it simmer gently over a slow me for a 



»At7C£9 



193 



3A0CEB 



few mimiteB, skim it and strain it through a 
■iere, and it is ready. 

FOR STEAKS, CHOPS, OR 



CUTLETS. Take your chops out of the 
fiying-pan ; for a pound of meat keep a ta- 
ble-spoonfiil' of the fiit in the pan, or pot in 
about an ounce of butter; put to it as much 
flour as will make it a paste ; rub it well 
together over ti^e fire till they are a little 
brown } then add as much boiling water as 
will reduce it to the tlackness of good cream, 
and a table^ipoonfiil of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, or pickle, or browning; let it boil 
together a few minutes, and pour it through 
a sieve to the steaks, &c. 

Ob; — ^To the above is sometnne» added 
a sliced onion, or a minced eschafot, with 
a table-spoonfiil of Port wine, or a little 
eschalot wine. Garnish with finely-scraped 
horseradish, or pickled waliiuts, glierkms, 
&c. ^ Some beef-eaters like chopped escha- 
lots in one saucer, and horseradish grated 
in vinegar, in another. Broiled raushrocxns 
are fitvorite relishes to beefsteaks. 



SWEET, FOR VENISQN OR 

HARE. Put some currant jelly into a 
Btewpan ; when it is melted^ pour it into a 
sauce-boat. 

N. B.~-Many send it to table without 
melting. 

This is a more salubrious relish than 
either spice or salt, when the palate pro- 
tests against animal food, unless its flavor be 
masked. Currant jelly is a good accom- 
paniment to roasted or hashed meats. 

SWEET. Put some cinnamon 



into a saucepan, with as much water as 
will cover it > set it on the fire, and when* it 
has boiled up once or twi(%r add two 
spoonfuls of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint 
of white wine, and two bay-leaves; give 
the whole one boil, and then strain it for 
table. 

TART ARE. Pound in a mor- 
tar three hard yolk^ of eggs; put ihem into 
a basin, and add half a table-«poonful of 
made mustard, and a littte pepper and salt; 
pour to it by degrees, slirring it fast all the 
while, about two wine-glassftils of salad oil; 
stir it together till it comes to a good thick- 
ness. 

N. B. — ^A little tarragon or chetTil minc- 
ed very fine, and a litUe vinegar, may be 
added. 



-TOM ATA. See Tomato, 



I 

L 



-. TOURNEE. To a little white 

thickening add some stock drawn from tlie 
trimmings of veal, poultiy, and ham; do 



not make it too thidi. Roil it dowly wtt 
a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, sad 
some green onions; strain and skim it well, 
and use it as required. Goinan sanoe m 
made- as the sauce toumee, adding the beat^ 
en yolks of two or more eggs, and is used 
for ragouts, fricassees, and any made disk 
which may reqture a rich white saooe. 

WHITE. Thicken half a pmt 

of cream with a little flout and bntrer, four 
shallbts minced, a littte mace and lemon- 
peel; let it boil, and a little before serving, 
add a spoonful of white wine, the well-beateo 
yolk of an egg, the squeese of a lemon, and 
a tes|-spoonfol of anchovv liquor. This sanoe 
will answer for boikd tovrh, or for a firicas- 



WHITE, FOR FOWLS OR 

TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, 
the necks of fowls, a piece of the scrag-end 
of a neck of mutton, two blades of mstoe, 
twelve pmpercoms) one anchovy, a small 
head of celeiy, a slice frcHD off the end of a 
lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it 
closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly 
half a pint; strain, and put to it a quarter 
of a pound of butter dredged with floiir; let 
it boil for five minuties,, and then add two 
spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms. Mix with 
a tea-cupfnl of cream, the well-beaten yolb 
of two eggs,, and some grated nutmeg; stir 
this in gradually, and shake the pan over 
the fire till it is all quite hot, but do not al- 
low it to boil. 



WHITE ITALIAN. M 

some mushrooms, and throw them into a 
little water and lemon-juice, to keep tiiem 
white. Put into a stewpan two-thirds of 
sauce touroee, and one-Uiird of good real 
stock, two table-spoonfols of finely-chopped 
mushrooms, and half a table-spoonful of 
washed and chopped shallots ^ let it boil tiB 
well flavored, and then serve it. Tbe 
nmshrooms should be as white as possible. 

WHITE SHARP. Boil wiib 



a little taiTagon, or tarragon vinegar, if tbe 
tarragon is not to be had, four table^flpooii- 
fols of white wine vinegar, and about twen- 
ty peppercorns; reduce this to one-lborth, 
and add it to six table-«poonfuls of saooe- 
toumee, and two of good stock; beil and 
strain it; put it agaiei on the fire, and thick- 
en it withithe bealen yolks of two eggs, a 
small bit of butter, a bttle sak and cay^^ 
Just before serving, stur in a i^ioonml of 
cieam. "^ 

WHITE; FOR Boiled Fowls. 

Meh in a tea-cupfol of milk a buge tafab- 
spoonfol of butter Itneaded in fikwr, best q» 



J 



SAU 



193 



SAU 



the jolk of an egg with a tea-apoonfiil of 
cream, stir il inio the butter, and heat it 
owr the fire, stirring it constantly; chop- 
ped parsley improves this sauce. It also 
may be made by melting the butter with 
water, and mixing milk with the egg. 

SAUCE, WINE, FOR VENISON OR 
HARE. A quarter of a pint of claret or 
Port wine, tlie same quantity of plain, un- 
flavored mutton grav^, and a table^epoooful 
of currant jelly: let it just boil up, and send 
it to table m a sauce-boat. 

SAUCE, WOW WOW, FOR Stewed 
crBouilli Beef. Chop some parsley- 
leav^ very fine ; quarter two or three pickled 
coaimbers, or walnuts, and divide them into 
mall squares, and set them by ready: put 
into a saaccpan a bit of butter as big as an 
€gg; wlien it is melted, stir to it a table- 
qioonful of fine flour, and about half a pint 
of the broth in which the beef was boiled ; 
add a table-ispoonful of vinegar, the like 
qnantity of mushroom ketchup, or Port wine, 
or both, and a tea-spoonful of made laustard ; 
let it simmer together till it is as thick as 
yoD wish it; put in the parsley and pickles 
to get warm, and pour it over the beef; or 
ratlier send it up in a sauce-tureen. 

Obs. — If you think the above not snfiicient- 
)y piquante, add to it some capers, or a 
minced eschalot, or one or two tea-spoonfuls 
of eschalot wine, or essence of anchovy, or 
basil, elder, or tarragon, or horseradish, or 
bomet vinegar; or strew over the meat car- 
rots and turnips cut into dice, minced capers, 
walnats, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, or 
French beans, &c. 

SAUSAGES, (1) Are composed of va- 
rioos kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly 
flnall, with pounded apices, and aromatic 
herbs, shred fine ; these ingredients are put 
into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and 
tied into leugdis of from two to five inches. 
Some persons add to the mixture a glass 
of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other 
wine. 

SAUSAGES, (2) Are best when quite 
fredi made. Put a. iMt of butter, or dripping 
into a clean frying-pan; as soon as it is 
melted (before it gets hot) put in the sausa- 
pS} and shake the pan for a minute, and 
Keep turning them (be careful not to break 
w prick them in so doing) ; fiy them over a 
▼eiy slow fire tiU they are nicely browned 
on all sides; when they are done, lay them 
on a hair sieve, placed before the fire for a 
couple of minutes to drain the fat from them. 
The secret of frying sausages is, to let them 
pt hot very gradually; they then will not 
nnstj if they are not stal^ The common 



practice to prevent their borating, istopriek 
them with a fork; but this lets the gravy 
out. You may froth them by rubbing them 
with cold fresh butter, and li^tly dredge 
tliem witli flour, and pot tbem in a clieese- 
toaater or Dutcli oven for a minute. Some 
over-eooooraical cooks insist tliat no butter 
or lard, &c. is required, their own fat 
being sufficient to fry them: we Imve tried 
it; the sausages were partially scorched, 
and had that piebald appearance that all 
fi-ied things have when sufficient fat b not 
allowed. 

Oba. — Poached eggs, pease pudding, and 
maslied potatoes, are a{$reeable accompani- 
ments to sausap^es ; and sausages are as wel- 
come boiled with roasted poultry or veal, or 
boiled tripe; so are ready-dressed German 
sausages; and a convenient, easily digestible, 
and invigorating food for the aged, and those 
whose teeth are defective. 

N. B. — Sausages, when finely chopped, 
are a delicate" bonne bouches" and require 
very little assistance from the teeth to render 
them quite ready for the stomach. 

SAUSAGES. (3) Take a pound of 
the inward fat of the pig, and lialf a pound 
of lean pork; pick tliem both from skm and 
sinews, mince them very finely, grate a large 
nutmeg, take its weight of pounded mace 
and cloves, the largest proportion mace, the 
weight of all of pepper, and twice the weight 
of the spices of salt; chep finely a few sage 
leaves and a little lemon thyme ; mix all well 
together with two large table-«poonfula of 
prated bread and the yolk of an egg beaten, 
it may be put into skina, or packed into a 
jar and lied closely with bladder. When 
to be used, moisten il with the yolk of an 
egg beaten, make it up in tlie form of sausa 
ges, flour them, and fry them in butter. 

SAUSAGES, BEEF AND OYSTER. 
See Beef. 

SAUSAGES, TO MAKE: Qiop to- 
gether two pounds of lean pork, and one 
and a half of the inward fat of tite pig, the 
crumb of a penny loaf cut into slices and 
soaked in cold water; season with pepper, 
salt, grated nutm^, lemon thyme, and a 
little sage. Mix all die ingredients well, 
and half fill the skins; boil them half an 
hour. 

SAUSAGES, BOLC)GNA. Take the 
legs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut 
all the lean, scrape it well, remove all the 
sinews, and rub the meat well with a sea- 
soning made of salt, pepper, coriander, 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. 
When properly flavored, take some naooo, 
lard, and leaf^ -and out the wliole iuto-dioe; 



SAV 



194 



SCO 



mix the (at and lean together, and put it in- 
to ox-guts, tie ap the ends, and lay the 
■aosages in a pan of water, with salt, and 
■altpetre ; cover the pan close, and leave it. 
In a week's time take out the sausages 
and drain them. Tie them between two 
pieces of wood, hang tiiem up to dry, and 
•moke. When dry, untie them, and rub 
each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- 
twigs, mixed together. Keep them to a 
dry place. 

SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince smaH 
the meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, 
a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and 
a bit of leg of veal ; shred also some paivley, 
chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these 
all together, and season with pepper, sak, 
beaten spice, and garlic; bind the wliole 
with the yolks of six, the whites of two eggs, 
and a little cream ; when thoroughly mixed, 
roll the preparation into thick pieces, which 
wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, welt 
beaten with a rolling-pin; each sausage 
should be about die thickness of a man's 
wrist, and of proportionate length Line an 
oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin 
beefsteaks, pot in the sausages, cover them 
with beefsteaks and bacon, shut the stew- 
pan v^ close, and set it on a nipderate 
fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it 
stand ten or twelve bourse then take it off, 
and when cold, take ont the sausages care- 
filliv, remove the vAl, and aU the &t, with 
a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve 
cold. 

SAUSAGES, SPREADBURY'S. Cut 
firom the leg or griskin one pound of nice 
lean pork, free firom sinew's and skin, mince 
it very finely : rainc^ one pound of the best 
beef suet, mix it with tiie pork, and pound 
it as finely as possible in a marble mortar; 
add two lai^ table-spoonfuls of stale bread 
rubbed through a sieve, also a good deal of 
pepper, salt, and a little finely-chopped sage, 
mix all together with the yows of two eg^ 
beaten up. It will keep for sometime, if 
put into an eartlien jar and pressed cbsely 
down. When it b to be used, make it into 
rolls, and as thick as common sausages, and 
tliree or four inches long: dust them with a 
little flour; have ready a frying-pan made 
very hoc, and fry them without any thing 
but their own fat, till they are done quite 
through, taking care not to make them too 
dry. By breaking one of them, the cook 
will know whetW they are sufficiently 
done. They may be fi-ied in lard or fresh 
beef dripping. 

SAVORY CABBAGE. See Cabbage. 

SAVOY BISCUITS. To be made as 



drop biscuits, omitting the carawavs, and 
quarter of a pound of flour: put it iiito the 
biscuit-funnel, and lay it out about the length 
and size of your finger, on coimnoo shop 
pt»per; strew sugar over, and bake them in 
a hot oven ; when cokd, wet the backs of the 
paper with a paste-lmish and water: when 
they have lain sometime, take them carefully 
oflf, and place them back to back. 

SAVOYS, Are boiled in the same man- 
ner as cabbages; quarter tbenft whea yoa 
send them to table. 

SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH ;-« good 
and wbeUxiUial dinner for nxpence per 
hettd. Wash three-quarters of a pound of 
Scotch barley in a little cok! water ; put it 
in a soup-pot with a shni or I^ of beef, of 
about ten pounds weight, sawed into lour 
pieces (tell the butcher to do this for you) ; 
cover it well with cok) water; set it on the 
fii-e: when it boib skim it very cfeao, and 
put in two onions of about three ounces 
weight each ; set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer vary gently about two hours; thai 
skim all the fitt clean off, and put in two heads 
of celery, and a large turnip cut into small 
squares ; season it with salt, and let it boil 
an houi* and a half longer, and it is ready: 
take out the meat (carefully with a slice, 
and cover it up, and set it by the fire to keep 
warm), and skim the broth well before yoa 
put It in the tui-een. 

SCOTCH BROSE. This fevorite Scotch 
dish is generally made with the liquor meat 
has been boile^^ in. Put half a pint of oat* 
meal into a porringer with a little salt, if 
there be not enou^ in the broth, of which 
add as much as will mix it to the consistence 
of hasty pudding, or a little thicker ; lastly, 
take a little of the fat that swims on the 
broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it 
in the same way as hasty-pudding. 

Obt. — ^This Scotsman's dish is easily pre- 
pared at very little expense, and is pleamnt* 
tasted and nutritious. 

N. B. — For various methods of i 
and flavoring oatmeal gruel, see GrueL 

SCOTCH BURGOO. This humble disb 
forms no contemptible article of food. It 
possesses the grand qualities of salubrity, 
pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fiict, 
a sort of oatmeal hasty podding widioat 
milk ; much used by those patterns of com- 
bined industry, frugality, and temperance, 
the Scottish peasantry; and this, among 
other examples of the economical Scotch, ii 
well worthy of being occasionally adopted 
by all who have lai^ families and small in- 
comes. It is made in the following easy and 
expeditious maimer: — ^To a quart of oatmekl 
« 



SCO 



195 



SHE 



add gradoany two quarts of water, bo that 
the whole inay amootbly mix : then stirring 
it continually over liie fire, boil it together for 
a quarter of an hour ; after which, take it up, 
and stir in a liule salt and butter, with or 
widKMit pepper. This quantity will serve a 
Eimily of five or six persona for a moderate 



SCOTS COLLOPS. Cut some very 
thin slices of beef; rub with butter the bot- 
tom of an iron stewpan that has a cover to 
fit quite closely ; put in the meat, some pep- 
per, and a little salt, a large onion, and an 
apf:^ minced very smalL Cover the stew- 
l^n, and let it simmer till the meat is very 
Serve it hot. 



SCOTCH DUMPLING. Make a paste 
with some oatmeal and butter, form it into 
a dumpling, and place a haddock's liver 
in the middle, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt; it should be boiled in a doth. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. Make the haggis- 
faa^ perfectly clean; parboil the draught; 
boil die liver very well, so as it will grate; 
dry the meal before the fire; mince the 
draught and a pretty large piece of beef very 
small; grate atxHit half of the liver; mince 
plenty of the suet and some unions small ; 
mix all these materials very well together, 
with a handful or two of uie dried meal; 
spread them on the table, and season them 
properly with salt and mixed spaces; take 
any c^ the scraps of beef that are left from 
mincing, and some of the water that boiled 
the draught, and make about a choppin (i. e, 
a quart) of good stock of it ; then put all die 
haggis meat into tlie bag, and diat broth in 
it; Uien sew up tlie bag; but be sure to put 
out all the wind before you sew it quite close. 
If you diink die bag is thin, you may put 
it in a cloth. If it is a lar^ haggis, it will 
take at least two hours boiling. 

N. B. — ^The above we copied verbatim 
from Mrs. Macifer, a celei>rated Caledo- 
nian professor of the culinary art, who 
taught, and pnblislied a book of cookery, at 
Edinburgh, A. D. 1787. 

SCOTS KALE. Put barley on in cold 
water, and when it boils take off the scum, 
put in any piece of fresh beef, and a little 
salt; let it boil three hours, have ready a 
cullender ftiU of kale, cut small and boil them 
till tender. Two or three leeks may be ad- 
ded with the greens, if the flavor is approved 
of. This broth is also made with salted 
beef, which must be put in water over night 
to soak. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD Take 
two pounds of flour, dry, yd sift it well ; 



then mix with it a pound of powder-ff^Vy 
three ounces of candied citron and orang»- 
peel cut into dice, and half a pcMind of car»* 
way comfits ; put half a pound of butter into • 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when quit* 
melted, mix it with the flour, &c. ; the paste 
being nicely made, roll it out to the Uiicknen 
of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them 
on white paper, prick and bake them; thej 
should be of a pale color. 



SEA CALE, BOILED. Let it lies 
time in cold water, then clean and trim it 
nicely, cutting off* any part that may be at 
all green, and parting it as little as possi- 
ble. Put ii on in boiling water, with a litr 
tie salL Let it boil half an hour ; drain oflT 
tlie water. Pare tlie crust oif a slice of 
toasted bread, lay it in the dish, pour over 
it a little melted butter, and serve the cale 
upon it. 

^EED CAKE. Sift two and a half 
pounds of flour, with half a pound of good 
white or loaf sugar, pounded into a pan or 
bowl ; make a cavity in tlie centre, and pour 
in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and a ta- 
ble-spoontul of thick yeast; mix die milk 
and yeast with enough flour to make it as 
thick as cream (this is called setting a 
sponge) ; set it by in a warm place for one 
hour ; in die meantime, melt to an oil half a 
pound of fresh butter, and add it to the otiier 
ingredients, with one qpnce of caraway- 
seeds, and enough of milk to make it of a 
middling stiflfness; line a hoop with paper, 
well rubbed over with butter; put in the 
mixture ; set it sometime to prove in a stove, 
or before the fire, and bake it on a plate 
about an liour, in rather a hot oven ; wlien 
done, rub the top over with a paste-brush 
dipped in milk. 

SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, BROILED. 

Wash and dry some nice kidneys, cut them 
in half and with a small skewer keep them 
open in imitation of two shells, season them 
with salt and pepper, and dip them into a 
little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side 
that is cut, and be careful not to let the gravy 
drop in taking them oif the gridiron. Serve 
tliem in a hot dish, with finely-chopped pars- 
ley mixed with melted butter, the juice of a 
lemon, pepper and salt, putting a little upon 
each kidney. This is an excellent break- 
fiist for a sportsman. 

SHEEP'S LIVER. Cut it into slices; 
wash it well, and dry it in a cloUi; flour 
and season it with pepper and salt, and fry 
it in butter, wiUi a good deal of minced 
parsley and an onion ; add a sufficient quan- 
tity of gravy or hot water to make a sauce, 
and let it stew a few minutes. It may be 



SHE 



196 



SHR 



fried quite plain, and when cat into slices, 
should be washed in milk and water. 

SHEEP'S MINCE. Wash the heart 
and lights very clean; boil them about half 
an hour ; miiice them finely ; mix a piece of 
butter with flour, brown it in a stewpan, and 
add some of the liquor the heart and Ughts 
vrere boiled in. Put in the mince with some 
chopped onion ; season with salt and pepper, 
cover it closely, and let it stew half an hour. 
Before serving, add a table-spoonful of mush- 
iX)om ketchup. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. 

Having parboiled the tongues in a little 
stock, fipiit each, give them a few turns in 
some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, 
pepper, shred parsl^, and bread crumbs; 
when well covered with the latter, lay them 
oo a gridiron, and broil them sbwly. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES PIE. Line a 
dif>h with some good puflf paste, and lay at 
the bottom of the dish some good forcemeat, 
made of roasted poultry, suet, parsley chop- 
ped, mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a few 
fine spices ; upon this place the tongues cut 
m two, and upon them a good slice of ham, 
a little butter, and a few slices of bacon ; 
put on the cover and bake it ; when done, 
take out the bacon arid ham, skim off all the 
fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES ROASTED. 

Take half a dozen sheep's tongues, and hav- 
ing properly prepared them, lai'd them with 
small lardona, tie them to a skewer, wrap 
a buttered paper round, and fasten them on 
a spit, and roast tliem before a moderate 
fire; a little liefore tliey are done, take off 
the paper, baste the tongues with butter, 
and make them of a nice color. Serve with 
whatever sauce you may pi-efer. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS STUFFED. 

Boil the feet in good stock till tlie bones 
will come out with ease ; fill the space lefl 
by them with a good fowl or chicken farce; 
dip them in lard, bread them well, and bake 
in a moderate oven. The space left by the 
bones is sometimes filled up with a bit of 
fi-ied bread ; in diid case the feet are only 
previously boiled, and then served with 
a'eam sauce. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS FRIED. Clean 
some sheep's trotters nicely, scald and wash 
them in hot water; stew them in that sauce 
in which calf's head plain is boiled, 
and bone them. Fry, but not till brown, 
in a little butter, some carrots, onions, a 
little parsley roots, all cut small, thyme, a 
■ballot, a small bay leaf, and a clove. When 



they begin to cokNr, moisten them widi wa- 
ter and vinc^r mixed in equal parts, and let 
it all stew till the vegetables are quite ten> 
der ; season with pepper and salt, and straio 
it through a silk sieve over the slieep's trot- 
ters, then fry the trotters in tliis batter; puf 
nearly four table-spooafijls of flour into ao 
eaitlien pan, with a little salt, a little olive 
oil, and as much good beer or water as will 
moisten the paste; when well mixed, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs, dip the trot* 
tera into this, and firy them instanthr. "JHie 
marinade cuite, or pickle, into wbicfa the 
trotters are laid, and the paste in which they 
are fried, may be used fer beef, and other 
meats. l*he same receipt may be foUowed 
exactly for calf's feet. 

SHERBET. This is a delicious bever- 
age, composed of cream, mixed with variuos 
articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, 
coffee, chocolate, &c., and sugar, and theo 
iced. Sherbet may also be made with the 
juice of various fruits, sweetened to the 
taste. When the liquid is sufficiently lim- 
pid and cold, pour it into a sihrer, or tio 
9orbetiere, and ice it as usual. 

SHERBET, TUMaSH, WashasroaH 
fore quarter of veal, put it on the fire with 
nine pints "f water; skim it well, and let it 
boil till reduced to two pints ; run it thrucigb 
a sieve, and when cold, add to it a pint and^ 
a half of clear lemon-juice, and two poond^ 
of loaf sugar which has been noade into a 
sirup with a pint and a half of water, and 
cleared with the white of an ^|g. It is 
served in glass mugs for a dessert table, or 
oflfered at any odier time as a refreshment. ' 

SHRUB. (1) One measure of leoKm- 
juice is allowed to five of rum, and to everf 
gallon of the mixture, six pounds of loaf su- 
gar, which is to be mehed in water, and the 
whole strained through flannel. 

SHRUB. (2) To one part of lemoD- 
juice, three of good orange are albwed, 
and, to every pint of juice, a pound and a 
half of very "finely-pounded loaf sugar; these 
being well mixed, it is put into a cask, and 
one quart oi the best rum added to each pint 
of the juice; tlie whole to be shaken three 
times a-day for a fortnight, or longer, if the 
cask be lai^e. It is then allow^ to stand 
to fine for a month, or till it be sufiBcioitly 
clear to bottle. The dregs may be made 
into excellent uiilk punch, by pouring warm, 
but not boiling, milk on them, allowing throe 
parts of milk to one of dr^s; after beiug 
well mixed, it is fit for use. 

SHRUB. (3) Put a quart of Seville 
oraftge-juicc toft gallon of mm, with three 



SIR 



197 



SKA 



pounds of lump sugar, and a handful of the 
peel pared extremely thin ; let it stand in the 
cask for tliree months, then filter it through 
a cloth, and bottle it 

SHRUB. (4) Take a quart of orange- 
juice, strain it, pot to it two pounds of lump 
sugar, four quarts and one pint of nun ; put 
half the peels of the oranges into the rum, 
and let it stand one ni^il, Uien mix the rum 
with the orange-juice and sugar, put it into 
a vessel which has a spigot, uiake it four or 
five times daily till tlie sugar be all dissolved ; 
when it is clear, which may be in about a 
fortnight, bottle it off for use. If the or- 
anges are very ripe, a pound and a halif of 
sugar is sufi^ient. 

SHRUB, LEMON OR ORANGE. The 
rind of the lemons or oranges being grated 
off, they are to be squeezed, and two pound* 
of finely-pounded kaS sugar is to be added 
to every pint of the strained juice ; when the 
sugar is ^uite dissolved, two pints of rum 
are allowed to every pint of sirap ; the whole 
u to be well mixed m a cask, and allowed 
to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn 
off. 

SHRUB, WHITE CURRANT. The 

currants are to be bruised and put into a 
bag to drip; three-quarters of a pound of 
\oa£ sugar is to be dissolved in two quarts 
- of juice, and a quart of rum being added, it 
is to be bottled for use. 

SIRUP OF CURRANTS, RASPBER- 
RIES, OR Mulberries. Pick the fruit 
firum the stalks ; squeeze tlie juice, and let it 
stand ten days or a fortnight, or till tlie fer- 
mentation ceases, which may be known by 
tlie scum cracking; carefofly take off the 
scum, and pour the juice genUy into a fresh 
vessel; let it stand twenty-four hours, and 
again pour it off, to one pound of pounded 
loaf 8U|;ar aUow thirteen ounces of the juice, 
pot it into a prefierving-pan, and when it be- 
gins to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it when cold. Burie pears boiled, 
in a little of the sirup, are beautifiil. 

SIRUP OF ORANGE OR LEMON 
PEEL. Of fi'esh outer rind of Seville orange 
or lemon peel, three ounces, apodiecaries' 
weight ; boiling water a pint and a half; in- 
fine them for a night in a close vessel ; then 
strain the liquor: let it stand to settle; and 
having poured it off clear from the sediment, 
dissolve in it two pounds of double-refined 
foaf sugar, and make it into a sirup with a 
gentle heat. 

Obs, — In making this siru)), if the sugar 
be dissolved in die infiision with as gentle a 
beat as possible, to ])reveM the exhalation 
17* 



of the volatile parts of the peel, ibis simp 
will possess a great share of the fine flavor 
of the orange or lemon peel. 

SIRUP, CLARIFIED. Break into biti 
two pounds (avoirdupois) of double^refined 
lump sugar, and put it into a clean stewpan 
(that is well tinned), with a pint of ooM 
spring water; when the sugar is dissolved, 
set it over a moderate fire: beat about half 
the white of an egg, put it to the sugar be- 
fore it gets warm, and stir it well together. 
Watch it; and when it boils take off the 
scum ; keep it boiling till no scum rises, atid 
it is perfectly clear ; tlien run it through a 
clean napkin: put it into a close-stopped 
bottle; it will Keep for months, and is ao 
elegant articks on the sideboard for sweet- 
ening. 

Oos.— The proportion of sugar ordered io 
the above sirup is a quarter pcwnd more than 
that directed in the Pharmacopceia of the 
London College of Physicians. The quanti- 
ty of sugar most be as much as (he liquor is 
capable of keeping dissolved when cold, or 
''it will ferment, and quickly spoil: if kept in 
a temperate degree of heat, the above pro- 
portion of sugar may be considered the basis 
of all sirups. 

SKATE, FRIED. After yon liave 
cleaned the fish, divide it into fillets; dry 
them on a clean ck)lb ; beat the yolk and 
white of an egg thoroughly together, dip the 
fish in this, and then in nne bread-cmnibs ; 
fry it in hot lard or drippings till it is of a 
delicate brown color ; lay it on a hair sieve 
to drain; garnish with crisp parsley, and 
some like caper sauce, with an anchovy 
in it. 

SKATE, TO CRIMP. Skin the skate 
on both sides, cut it an inch and a half 
broad, and as l6ng as tlie skate, roll up each 
piece and tie it with a thread ; lay them f«>r 
three hours in salt and water, and a little 
vinegar; boil them fifteen minutes in boiling 
salt and water ; before serving, cut off die 
threads. Sauces: — shrimp, tetter and an- 
cho\'y. When the skate are very small, diey 
are preferable broiled. 

SKATE, LARGE, DRESSED LIKE 

Veal CtjTLETS. Crimp, or cut the skate 
in square pieces, roll them in beaten eggs, 
and then in grated bread mixed witli chop- 
ped parsley, pepper, and salt; fry them ofa 
nice brown color, and serve with a rich 
brown gravy. 

SKATE, STEWED. Skin the skate, 
cut it into square pieces, and brown it with 
butter in a frying-pan ; make a rich saucs 
with the skin and parings, Io be boiled in 



SNJ 



19& 



SOL 



Jivee piatfl of water, with an onion, some 
pepper and salt ; strain and thi'Aen it with 
a little butter mixed with flour, add some 
very finely chopped parsley, and chives; of 
hot vinegar, mudhroom ketchup, and Harvey 
sauce, a table-spoonful each, and a Ifttle 
cayenne ; boil it up and put it in the skate 
five minutes before serving it. 

SKATE, Is very good when in good 
season, but no fi^ so bad when it is otlier> 
wise : Uiose'persons that like it firm and dry, 
should have it crimped ; but thoee that like 
it tender, should have it plain, and eat it 
not earlier than the second day, and if cold 
weather, three or four days old it is better: 
it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. 
Young skate eats very fine crimped and 
fried. 

SKATE, SMALL, TO FRY. Clean, 
wash, and lay them one or two hours in vin- 
egar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced 
onion, some cnopped parslev, pepper, and 
salt ; drain and dry them well, dip them into 
beaten egga, dredge them with flour, and fry 
them of a fine brown color ; garnish thetq 
with fi'ied parsley. Sauces ; — melted butter, 
and shrimp sauce. 

SKIRRETS. Wash and scrape them, 
put them on in boilii^ water, and boil them 
for ten minutes; dry them in a cullender, 
and fly them brown m a little butter. They 
are sometimes plain boiled, and a little mel- 
ted butter poured over ihem. 

SMELTS, TO FRY. This delicate lit- 
tie fish, when perfectly fi^h, must not be 
washed, but wiped with a clean cloth, and 
dredged with flour, or brushed over with a 
feati^, dipped into the volk of an egg beat- 
en, and rolled in a plate of finely-grated 
bread-^iiimbs, and fried in boiling dripping, 
or fresh lard. Th^ vary in size, and some 
will be done sooner than olhais. When of 
a clear yellow brown, take them out careful- 
ly, and lay them before the fire upon the back 
of a si^ve to drain and keep hot. Dish 
them, heads and tails alternately; garnish 
with fried parsley. Sauce — melted butter. 
They may sJso be broiled. 

SMELTS, ITALL4N. Boil your smelts 
widi a large glass of white wine, half a glass 
of water, two spoonfols of oil, two slices of 
lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. 
When sufficiently done, make a liaison with 
yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, and serve 
yoor fish with its own sauce. 

SNIPES. When the snipes have been 
picked, th^ must be singed over a charo^ 
fire; in trussing them press the legs close to 



the side, and pierce the beak through tlWB; 

tie a slice of bacon over each bird, run a Vmg 
iron skewer through the sides, and tie Uieui 
to the spit; in the meantime cut two or three 
slices of bread, according to the nomber ot 
the birds, fry them of a fine brown color in 
butter; put the birds to roast, and put the 
fried bread in a dish imder them, to receive 
the inside, which will drop after they have 
hung a few minutes; just before tney are 
roasted sufficiently, cut oif the bacon, that 
they may take color. Serve them oo the 
dish with the bread under them, and plenty 
of good gravy. Some prefer eating them 
with butter only, considering that gravy 
takes off from the fine flavor of the bird. 
They should be carved the same as fowls or 
pigeons, and the head should be opened, as 
some are fond of the brains. Snipes are 
generally dressed in the same manner as 
woodcocks. 

SNOW-BALLS, BOILED IN BUT- 
TER. Mix widi six well-beaten ^gs one 
pint and a half of sour cream, and add fay 
degrees as much flour as will make the bat- 
ter thick enough for the spoon to stand in 
it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and pot 
in a few cardamons ; stir into this ntixtore 
half a pint of beer, beat it. all well to- 
other, and drop it with a dessert-spoon 
mto ^ome boilin? lard, or butter. Drain 
them upon a towel before the fire, and serve 
them in a napkin, with sugar sifted over 
them. 

SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, with poan- 
ded loaf sugar, a quart of good cream ; add 
the strained juice of three lemons, and one 
ounce and a half of blanched sweet almonds 
pounded, and two table-spoonfols of roee- 
watei', and one of ratafia. Beat it with a 
whisk till thick, and put it into a A^pe or 
sieve with a bit of muslin laid into it, and 
in twelve hours take it out. 

SODA WATER. Tartaric acid half 
ah ounce, arated soda, half an ounce. Have 
two tumblers about one-third full of water, 
put a tea-spoonful of the soda into one glass, 
and the same of the acid into the cyflier; 
when dissolved, mi^ them together, and 
drink it immediately. The two sorts of salts 
must be kept in separate bottles, and dwuld 
be bought ready powdei^. 

SOLES OR OTHER FISH, TO FRY. 

An hour before you intend to dress then, 
wa^ them dioroughly, and wrap them in a 
clean cloth, to make them perfectly dry, or 
the bread-crumbs will not stick to nrnn. 

Prepare some bread-crumbs, by rubbing 
some stale bread through a colander; or, 
if you wish the fish to appear very T " 



SOL 



1^ 



SOL 



nd higUy fiouihed, throi^ a hair sieve; or 
we biscuit powder. 

Beat the yolk and white of an egg well 
tosetber, on a plate, with a fork ; flour your 
fi£, to absorb any moisture that may remain, 
and wipe it off with a clean ck>th ; dip them 
in the egg on both sides all over, or, what 
is better, e^g them with a paste-brush; |xit 
the egg on in an even degree over the whole 
fish, or the bread cnimbe will not stick 
to it even, and the uneven part will bum 
to the pan. Strew the bread crumbs all 
over tlie fish, so that they cover every part, 
take up the fish by the hiead, and shake off 
the loose cnimbe. The fish is now ready 
for the frying-pan, into which put a quart 
or niore of fresh sweet olive oil, or clar- 
ified butter, dripping, lard, or clarified drip- 
pings; be sure tliat they are quite sweet 
and perfectly clean (the £u ought to cover 
the fish): what we here order is for soles 
about ten inches long; if larger, cut them 
into pieces the proper size to help at table; 
this will save much time and trouble to the 
carver: when you send them to Uible, lay 
them in the same form tliey were before they 
were cut, and you may strew a little cmled 
parsley over them: uiey are much easier 
managed in the firyii^-pan, and requii-e less 
&t: fry the thick part a few minutes before 
you put in the thin, yoQ can by this means 
only fry the diick part enough, without fry- 
ing the thin too much. Very large soles 
should be boiled, or fried in fillets. Soles 
cut in pieces, crossways, about the size of a 
smelt, make a very pretty garnish for stewed 
fish and boiled fish. 

Set the frying-pan. over a sharp and clear 
file ; watch it, skim it witli an egg-slice, and 
whea it boils, t. e. when it has done bub- 
bling, and the smoke just begins to rise from 
the surface, put in the fish: if ll)e fat is not 
extremely hot, it is impossible to fry fish 
of a good color, ,or to keep them firm and 

The best way to ascertain the heat of the 
felt, IS to try it with a bit of bread as big as 
a oat; if it is quite hot enough, the bread 
will brown immediately. Put in the fish, 
and it will be crisp and brown on the side 
next the fire, in about four or five minutes; 
to torn it, stick a two pronged fork near die 
head, and support the tail with a fish-slice, 
and fry the other side nearly the same lengdi 
of time. Fry one sole at a time, except the 
pan is very large, and you have plenty of fat. 

When the fisli are fried, lay them on a soft 
doth (old table-ck)d]8 are beet), near enough 
the fire to keep tliem warm; turn them 
every two or three minutes, till they are 
quite dry on both sides; this common cooks 
oominomy neglect. It will take ten or fifteen 
Duoutes, if tlie fi&t you fried them in was not 
but eiKMUigh; when it is» they want very liule 



drying. When soles are fi-ied, they wil 
keep very good in a drv place for thVoe oi 
four davs; wum Uiem by han|[ing them oa 
the hooks in a Dutch oven, letting diem heat 
ve^ gi-adually, by putting it some dialanos 
from the fire for about twenty minutes, or in 
good gra%'y, as eels, Wiggy's way. 

Ob», — There are several general rules in 
this receipt which apply to all fried fish: 
we have been very parttcukur and minute in 
our directions; for, although a fried sole 'm 
so frequent and fiivorite a dish, it is very 
seldom brought to table in perfection. 

SOLES, TO BOIL. A fine, fresh, thick 
sole is almost as good eating as a torbot. 
Wash and clean it nicely ; pot it into a fish- 
keule with a handful of salt, and as much 
cold water as will cover it ; set it on the side 
of the fire, take off the scum as it rises, and 
let it boil gently ; about five minutes (accord- 
ing to its size) will be long enough, unless 
it be very large. Send it up on a fuh-drain* 
er, gamislied with slices of lemon and sprigs 
of curled parsley, or nk»ly-fried smelts, or 
oysters. 

Obs, — Slices of lemon are a univeiwllv 
acceptable garnish with either fried or broil- 
ed fish: a few sprigs of crisp (larsley may be 
added, if you wsm to make it look very 
smart ; and parsl^, or fennel and butter, are 
excellent sauces, or chervil sauce, or anchovy. 

SOLES, TO DRESS MAIGRE. Put 
the fish into a stewpnn, with a large onion, 
four cloves, fifteen berries of allspice, and the 
same of black pepper ; just cover them with 
boiling water, set it where they will simmer 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to the size of the fish ; strain off the liquor 
in another stew^, leaving the fish to keep 
warm till the sauce is ready. Rub together 
on a plate as much flour and butter as will 
make the sauce as thick as a double cream. 
Each pint of sauce season with a glass of 
wine, half as much mushroom ketchup, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few 
grains of cayenne; let it boil a few minutes, 
put the fish on vl deep dish, sti-ain the gravy 
over it; garnish it with sippets of bread 
toasted or fried. 

SOLE, Carp, Trout, Perch. Eel, 
OR Flounder, to stew. When die fish 
has been properly washed, lay it in a stew- 
pan, with half a pint of claret or Port wine, 
and a quart of good gravy, a large onion, a 
dozen berries of black pepper, the same of 
allspice, and a few cloves» or a bit of mace: 
cover die fish-kettle ckwe, and let it stew 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to the thickness of the nsU: Uke the fish up, 
hy it on a hot dish, cover it up, and thickeo 
the liquor it was stewed in with a little 



sou 



200 



SOUPS 



Hour, and awson it with pepper, «alt, essence 
of anchovy, mushroom ketchup, and a little 
Cliili viiiegar; when it has boiled ten min- 
utes, strain it through a tamis, and pour it 
over tlie fish: if there is more sauce than 
the dish will hold, send the rest up in a boat. 
The river trout comes into season in April, 
and continues till July; it is a delicious fish. 

SORREL, TO STEW. Strip the leaves 
from the stalks, wash them well, scald tliem 
in boiling water in a sih'er saucepan, or in 
an earlhem pipkin ; strain and stew them in 
a little gravy till tender. Serve with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

SORREL, IN GRAVY. Mince, and 
put it into a saucepan, with butter, Incon, 
parsley, and scallions; add a glass of con- 
tomme; set it over a moderate fire, and 
when quite soft, put to it some fowl gravy, or 
Teal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do 
not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. 

SORREL OMELET. Pick, wash, and 
blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and 
firy it lightly in a little butter, with shred 
parsley and scallions; then put the sorrel 
into a saucepan, with a little cj*eam ; season, 
and let it boil slowly ; in die meantime make 
an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, 
thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, 
pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. 

SOUFFLET, APPLE. Prepare apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the 
whites of two or three eggs, with a little 
sifted loaf sugar, lay it upon the rice, and 
bake it in an oven a light tHX)wn. Serve it 
instantly when done. 

SOUFFLET, RICH. Soak in white 
wine and a little brandy, sweetened witli su- 
^r, some slices of sponge cake ; put them 
mto a deep dish, and pour over them a rich 
custard; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
three or four eggs, and with a table-spoon 
lay it over (he top in heaps to look rough ; 
brown it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. 

SOUFFLET, RICE. Soak in half a 
pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, 
and the peel of a lemon cut thin ; put it into 
a saucepan, with a little salt, and add by 
degrees a pint of new milk, and a bit of but- 
ter the size of a walnut; stir it till it boil, 
and for five minutes afler. When cool, add 
the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two tible- 
spoonfuis of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in 
tlie well-l)eaten whites of the eggs, and dress 
the soufflet in the disli like a pyramid. 



Bake it in an oven. It may be mac t wM 
two table-spoonfuls of potato flour, whidi 
mix with a little milk, and a little s:<A, atkd 
then diicken it over the fire with mor'; milk; 
put a little orange-flower water, or aiiy other 
perfume; whilst in the oven it may be glaud 
with sifled loaf sugar. 

SOUFFLET, ORANGE. Mix with a 
table-spoonful of flour a pint of cream, pot 
it into a saucepan, with two spoonfuls d[ 
rose-water, a little cinnamon and orange- 
peel ; stir it till it boil ; strain and sweeten 
it, and wlien cold, mix in two table-spom- 
fuls of oraiige marmalade; beat weU .six 
eggs with a glass of bi-andy ; mix all t(^th- 
er ; put it in a buttered shape ; place it m 
a saucepan of boiling water, over a stove; 
let it boil one hour and a quarter widioot a 
cloth or cover over it. 

SOUPS. Evenr utensil emploved in a 
kitchen must be kept scrupulously clean, 
and a cook ought to take especial care that 
all her saucepans be in good order. Braa 
pans are preferable for preserx'ing in, and 
double block tin are the best sort in use ^ 
every other puipose ; their covers, should be 
made to fit closely, and the tinning always 
renewed as soon as it is observed to be 
wearing off. While new, they may be 
easily kept clean by washing them regniarly 
in hot water, and rubbing on them when 

Suite dry, a little whiting with leather or 
annel. After long use, they will nupm 
occasional scouring with fine sand; and be- 
fore they are used, they ought always to be 
rinsed out with hot water, and wiped with 
a clean cloth. A landlady will find K good 
economy, and for her advantage in other 
respects, to provide plenty of stone ware and 
eailhen vessels, and also common dishes for 
the Kitchen, that the table set may not be 
used to keep cold meat om 

In boiling soup, less water is used in a 
digester than in a common pot, as in a di- 
gester no steam can escape. 

To extract the strength from meat, bnf 
and slow boiling is necessary, but care ninst 
be taken that the pot is never off the boil. 
All soups are better for being made the day 
before they are to be used, and they fihoold 
then be strained into earthen pans. When 
soup has jellied in the pan, it shoukl not be 
removed into another, as breaking it will 
occasion its becoming sour sooner than it 
would otherwise do ; when in danger of not 
keeping, it sliould be boiled up. It newr 
keeps long with many vegetables in it. 'f* 
m«it used for soups or brotlis cannot be W 
fresh. Wlien any animal food is |)lai» 
boiled, the liquor, with the addition oNjj 
trimmings of meat and poultry, nr<Jce good 
soups and gravies, as do afaso the bones « 



SOUPS 



201 



SOUPS 



•WMtCedor broifed neat. The gravies left 
m the diAea amwer for bashes, and the 
liquor in which veal has been boiled, may 
be made ioto a glaze fay boiling it with a 
bam bone till r^uoed to a tbii-d or fourth 
fMut, and seasoning it with the neoesBary 
herbs and spices. 

In boiling weak soaps, the pan i^ould be 
nocovered that the watery particles may 
escape. Ck>w4ieei jelly improves evenr 
sort of ridi soup; and lor thickenings truA 
fles, nsarel^ and dried mushnMuns, may be 
wed with sidvantage. 

Directions are given with each of tha 
IbUowing soups for thickening with floor 
and batter, ere&xa and eggs; albr the cn^am 
and eggs are added, the soup must not be 
allowed to boil. 

Should brown gravy or mock turtk soup 
be spoiling, fresh'-made charcoal, roughly 
pooaded, tied in a little bag and boiled with 
eitber, will absorb the bad flavor and letve 
it sweet and good. The charcoal may be 
made by simpfy patting a bit of wood into 
the fire, and pounding the burnt part in a 



ASPARAGUS. This is made 

with the points of asparagus, in the same 
manner as the g^neen peauae aaup is with 
pease: let half the asparagus be rubbed 
through a sieve, and the other cut in pieces 
about an inch long, and boiled till done 
enoogb, and sent up in the soup: to make 
two quarts, there must be a pint of heads 
to tliicken it, and half a pint cut in; take 
care to preserve tlieoe green and a little 
crisp. This soup is sometimes nia(b by 
adding the aspanigus iieads to common pease 



BEEF, THICK. In eight quarts 

of water boil gently for seven hours, skim- 
ming it well, a shin, or a 1^ of beef, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs; strain it the next day, 
take off the fat, »<^d cut all the gristly and 
sinewy parts from tlie bones, add them to 
the soup with some leeks, onions, celery, 
pepper, salt, and ten or twelve ounces of 
Scotch barley parboiled; boil it gently for 
two or tliree hours. This stock or jelly will 
keep good for weeks in cold weather. 



BEEF OR MUTTON. Boil 

very, gently in a closely covered saucepan. 
Soar quarts of water, with two table-spoon* 
fills of sifted bread raspings, three pounds 
of beef cut in small pieces, or the same 
quantity of mutton chops taken from the 
middle of Uie neck; season with pepper- 
end salt, add two turnips, (wo carrots, two 
cmions, and one head of celeiy, all cut small ; 
let it stew with these ingredients four hours, 
wk&^ it will be ready to serve. 



BEET ROOT« Bail till 1 

two rooti of beet, and rub off the skin with 
a coarse towel, miaoe them finely, as sko 
two or three onions; add this to five pintf 
of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather 
thick, then stir in three or font table-spooiH 
fuls of vinegar and one of brown sugar; let il 
boil, and throw in aooie firtcandellans raada 
up in the form of corks, and rolled in flour. 

AND BOUILU. The beak 

parts for this purpose, are tha leg or shin, 
or a piece ol the middle of a brisket of 
beef, of about seven or eight pounds' weight ; 
lay it on a fish drainer, or when yea take it 
up, put a slice under it, which will enable 
you to place it on the dish entire ; put it in* 
to a soappot or deep stewpAO, with oold 
water enough to cover it, and a quart over, 
set it on a quick fice lo grt the scum up, 
which remove as it rises ; then pot in twa 
carrots, two turnips, two leeks> or two 
large onions, two heads of celery, two or 
three cloves, and a fiiggot c^ parsley and 
sweet herbs ; set the pot* liy the side of tha 
fire to simmer ^'ery gently, till the meat is 
just tender enough to eat; this wiU require 
about ibui or five houi-s. 

Put a large carrot, a turpip, a birge onioo^ 
mid a head or two of celery, into the soap 
whole, — take them out as soon as tliey are 
done enough, lay them on a disli till they are 
cold, then cut them into small squares:— 
when tlie Beef is done, take it out careful- 
ly, — strain the Soup throi^h a hair sieve 
into a clean stewpan, take off the fot, and 
pot the vegetables tliat are cut into the 
soup, the flavor of which you may lieighien, 
by adding a table-spoonful of mushi-oom 
keidiup. 

If a Thickened Soup is preferred, take 
four large table-spoonfuls of the clear &t 
from the top of tlie pot, and ft ur spoonfuls 
of flour ; mix it smooth togetlier, then bv 
degrees stir it well into tl^ soup, which 
simmer for ten minutes kuiger at least,—- 
skim it well and pass it thixHigh a tamis^ 
or fine sieve, and add the vegetables and 
seasoning the same as directed in the clear 
soup. 

Keep the beef hot, and send it up (as a 
remove to the soup) with finely chopped 
parsley sprinkled on tike top, and a sauce* 
boat of Wow Wow t 



BROWN, wiTHODT Meat 

Put tliree quarts or more of water, with a 
suflicient quantity of laspings to thicken it; 
' two or three onions cut across, some whole 
pepper, and a little salt; cover it close, and 
let it boil an hour and a half; take it ofl^ 
and Btrain it throngh a sieve { fi'v in butter 
some celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and 
atfy other herbs cut small; th^n take e 



SOUPS 



SOUPS 



Mewpan (suflkiently large to hold all the 
ingredientB,) and put in a good piece of but- 
ter, stick in a little flour, and k6ep stirring 
till it is colored of a nice brown ; tlien put 
in the herbs and soup ; boil it till the herbs 
are tender, and the soup of a proper consist- 
ence, ihea pour the soup into a ttuieen, and 
send to table; serve with fried bread, either 
in the soup or in a dish. 



• BROWN GRAVY. (1) Take 
'toff 

i pot 



fifteen pounds of a leg or shin of beef, cut c 
the meat in bits, rub the bottom of the p 
with butter, put in the meat, let it brown 
for nearly an hour, turning it constantly, 
break the bone and take out tlie marrow, 
which may be kept for a pudding, but it is 
lidered • - • 



I better Aan butter to brown the 
meat with ; put to it fourteen cjuarts of cold 
water, and the bones; when it boils, skim 
it perfectly clean, and add six gooil-sized 
red onions, one carpot cut in Uiree, one 
head of celery, a good handfol of whole 
black and Jamaica pepper mixed; let this 
boil very gently ten or twelve hours ck)sely 
covered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a 
hot plate, not to be covered ; strain it through 
a cullender, and then throogli a hair sieve, 
into a large pan, to be kept for use. Re- 
turn the meat and bones into the pot with 
three or four quarts of hot water ; let it lx)il 
nearly two hours, and strain it off. This 
makes good stock for gravies, stews, or 
any made dishes. 

This gravy soup keeps perfectly good for 
diree or four weeks. When it is to be 
boiled to send to table, first boil vermicelli, 
or maoaroni, in a little salt and water, till 
tender; sU-ain it, and add it to the soup 
just before serving. This soup is aoite 
pure, and requires no clearing. It is a 
most convenient thing to have in a house in 
cold weatlier, as it is always ready for use ; 
and, served with dry toast to eat with it, 
makes an acceptable luncheon. 

The trimmings of meat, giblets, and bones, 
may be boiled with tlie beef for this soup. 

BROWN GRAVY. (2) Cut 



down three pounds of gravy beef, and put it 
on in a stewpan with diree onions cut small, 
and two ounces of butter; let it brown well, 
stirring it to prevent the onions from burn- 
ing; then add four quarts of water, one 
head of celery, of carrots and turnips two 
each, with some wiiole black pepper and 
salt; boil it gently for four hours ; strain it; 
and tlie next day take off tlie fet. When 
it is heated, add some vermicelli, previously 
boiled in water, and serve it aAer boiling 
ten minutes. 

-^ CALF»8 HEAD, OR MOCK 

TURTX.E. (1) Farboilacairsljead,take 



off the skin and cut it in bits about an iaeli 
and a half square, cut the fleshy parts io tMls, 
take out the black part of the eyes, and cot 
the rest in ringn, skin the tongue, sind cut it 
in slices, add it all* to three quarts of good 
stock, and season it with cayenne, two or 
three blades of mace, salt, the peel of half a 
lemon, and half a pint of white wine, with 
about a dozen of forcemeat balls; stew all 
tliis an hour and a half, nib down with a 
little cold watrr, two table-epoonfiils of floor, 
mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, 
and tlien stir it into the pot; pot in the 
iuice of half a large lemon, and the bard- 
boiled yolks c^ eight eggs; let it simmer for 
ten minutes, and then put it all in the tureen. 

CALF'S HEAD. (2) ScaU 



and clean thoroughly a calf's head with 
die skill on, boil it an hour gently in tfaree 
quarts of water, and parboil with it aoms 
sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and 
frv of a light thrown in butter two poundi 
of gni\y beef, one of veal, and one of mut- 
ton, with five onions cut small ; put all into 
the liquor, adding the bones of the bend 
broken; rinse the filing-pan with two 
quarts of boiling water, and put it to the 
meftt, and other things, with two whole on- 
ions, and a biincii of sweet herbs, and twice 
their quantity of parsley ; the peel of one 
lemon, four cloves, a little allspioe, salt, 
and black pepper, with a slice of the crumb 
of bread dried before the fire; let all this 
stew slowly for five hours, strain it, and 
when cold, take off all the fiit. Cot tfaa 
meat of the calf's liead, tongue, and sweet- 
breads, in small square bits, add ibem fea 
tlie soup, and when it has boiled, mix verr 
gradually with a large tab!e-spoonfijl of 
flour a cupful of the soup, and stir it gently 
into the pot ; twenty minutes bdfore serving, 
add a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, & 
yolks of eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, and 
the same number of forcemeat balln ; a pint 
of white wine, — Madeir? is the best, — ood 
just before serving, add thejuioeof a lemoe. 
F(Hx%meat balls for this soup are made as 
folbws: — Mix the brains with five table> 
spoonfuls of grated bread, the same of fiaely 
minced beef suet, a tea-spoonful of sah, one 
of white pepper, the gi*aled peel of a lenioD, 
some nutm^, and boiled parsley chopped; 
beat the yolks and whites of two ^gs, roD 
the balls tiie size of tlie yolk of an cigg, and 
fty tliem of a light brown in boiling drip* 
ping. 

CALF'S HEAD. (8) T^kew 

much as is ret^uirpd of not very strong veal, or 
beef stock, in vhicb six onions have beea 
boiled, Ix^wn a quarter of a pound of butler 
and tliicken it well with flour, then add the 
Slock by degrees; when it boils, put in th« 



SOUPS 



!203 



S0DP8 



cairs head, cat in small pieces, and some fried 
forcemeat balls; season it with salt and 
pqpper. The peel of half a lemon imoroves 
It. When it has boiled twenty minutes, 
add two table-spoonfhis of ketchup, three of 
esBBDce of anchovies, and as much lemon 
pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To 

£'ve the soup a good color, and to enrich the 
ivor, may be added a burge table-spoonful 
ot floor, mixed perfectly smooth in a tea- 
capful of cold water, and stirred gradually 
into the soup, after which let it boil a few 



CARROT. Scrape and 

half a dozen lar|pe carrots; peel off the red 
outside (which is the only part used for this 
soup); put it into a gallon stewpan, with 
one head of celery, aM an onion, cat into 
thin pieces ; take two quarts of beef, veal, 
or mutton broth, or if you have any cold 
roast beef bones (or liquor, in which glutton 
or beef has been boiled), you may make very 
good broth for this soup: when you have 
put the broth to the roots, cover the slewpan 
ck»e, and set it on a slow stove for two 
hows and a half, when the carrots will be 
soft enough (some cooks put in a tea-cupftil 
of bread-crumbs); boil for two or tltee 
mbutes; rub it through a tamis, or hair 
sieve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much 
broth as will make it a ph)per thickness, 
t. «. almost as thick as pease soup: put it 
into a clean stewpan ; make it hot ; season 
it with a little salt, and send it up M'ith 
sune toasted bread, cut into pieces lutlf an 
inch square. Some put it into the soup; 
hot the best way is to send it up on a plate, 
as a side dish. 

(CELERY. Split half a dozen 

heads of celery into slips about two inches 
hog; wash them well; lay diem on a hair 
sieve to drain, and put then into three quarts 
of clear gravy soup in a gallon soup-pot; set 
it by the side of the fire to stew very gently 
till the celery is tender (this will take about 
an hour). Iff any scum rises, take it off; 
season with a little salt. 

06«. — When celery cannot be procored, 
half a drachm of the seed, pounded fine, 
which may be considered as the essence of 
celery, put in a ouarter of an hour before the 
soup is done, and a little sugar, will give as 
noch flavor to half a gallon of soup as two 
heads of celery weighing seven ounces, or 
add a little essence of celery. 

CJOCKY-LEEKY. Take a 

•crag of mutton, or shank of veal, three 
quarts of water (or liquor in which meat has 
been boiled), and a good sized fowl, with 
two or three leeks cut in pieces about an 

. incli king, pepper and salt; boil slowly about 



an hoar: then pat in as many more teek«« 
and i^ive it three-qnarten of an hour tongeri 
this IB very good, made of good beef stock, 
and leeks put in at twice. 

CRAWFISH. This soap is 



sometimes made with beef, or veal broth, or 
with fish, in thefolkiwing manner: Take 
flomders, eels, gudgeons, &c., and set them 
on to boil in coM water; when it is pretty 
nigh boiling, skim it well; and to three 
quarts put in a couple of onions, and as many 
carrots cut to pieces, some parsley, a down 
berries of black and Jamaica pepper, and 
about half a hundred craw-fish ; take off the 
small claws and shells of the tails; pound 
them fine, and boil them with the broth 
about an hour; strain off, and break in 
some crusts of bread to thicken it, and, if 
you can get it, the spawnof a kibster ; poand 
it, and put it to the soup; let it simmer ver) 
gently for a couple of minutes ; put in your 
craw-fish to get hot, and the soup is reody. ^ 

CRESSY. (1) Wash ch»n. 



and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, 
tliree heads of celery, and six onions; put 
them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of butter and a slice of ham, stew them 
gently for an hour, stirring them constantly: 
when they begin to lNX)wn add as much 
gravy soup ae will fill die tureen ; let it boil 
till the vegetables are sufficiently tender to 
pulp with a spoon through a sieve, after 
which put it on the fire and boil it half an 
hour, skin, and season it with pepper and 
salt. This soup should be as thick as meli- 
ed butter. Two pounds of beef boiled in 
four quarts of v^ter till reduced to three, 
will answer for the soup. 

CRESSY. (2) Slice twelve 



laiige onions, and fry them pretty brown hi 
a quarter of a pound of firesh butter ; SQrape 
and clean two dozen of good red carrots, 
boil th«n in four quarts of water till quite 
soft; pound them in a mai-ble mortar, mix 
them with the onions and add the liquor in 
which die carrote were boiled, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, 
and two or three ckives; let them all boil 
about an hour, then rub them through a hair 
sieve; put it on again to bcil rather quickly, 
till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a lit- 
tks dry boiled rice in the tureen, and pour 
the soup over it. If the carrots are large, 
one dozen will be found sufficient. 



CUCJUMBER. Make some 

broth with a neck of mutton, a thick slice 
of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three 
cloves, a carrot, two turnips, some salt, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs; stniin it; bix>wn 
with an ounce of butter the crumb of • 



SOUPS 



204 



SO0PS 



Frencb roll, to which pnt ionr large «aoiim- 
ben, and two beads of lettuoe oat ffnall ; let 
tbem atew a quarter of an hour, and add to 
them a quart of the broth; when it boils 
put in a pint of green pease, and as it stews, 
add two qoarts mote of the fapolh. 

CURRY, OR MULLAGA- 

TAWN Y. Cut four pounds of a braast of 
veal into pieces, about two inches by one ; 
put the trimmings into a stewpan with two 
quarts of water, with twelve oorna of black 
pepper, and the same of atispioe; when it 
Doils, tkim it clean, and let it boil an bour 
and a half, tlien strain it off; while it is 
boiliuff, fry of a nice brown in butter the 
bits (X veal and four <HBions; when they are 
done, put the broth to them; put it on the 
fire; when it boils, skim it clean; let it 
simmer half an hour ; then mix two epoon- 
fiils <^ curry, and the same of flour, with a 
little cold water and a tea-spoonful of salt; 
add thesQ to the soap, and siuuner it gently 
till the veal is quite tender, and it is ready ; 
w bone a couple of fowb or rabbits, and 
stew tbem in the manner directed above for 
the veal, and you may put in a bruised esr 
chalot, and scrnie maoe and ginger, instead of 
black pepper and allspice. 

CURRY. Mince small three 

or four onions, according to their size, put 
them into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, dredge in some flour, and flry tbem 
till of a liglit brown, taking care not to 
bom them; rub in by d^frees a large table- 
spoonful and a half of curry-powdo*, till it 
be quite a paste; gradually stir in Uiree 
quarts of ^ravy soup, mixing it well togeth- 
er; boil It gently till it be well flavored 
with the curry-powder ; strain it into anoth- 
er saucepan, and add a fowl skinned and 
cut in small pieces, dividins each joint; 
stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of 
the soup put a large' table-spooniiil of tama- 
rinds, and stew them so as to separate the 
stalks and stones; strain and stu- it into the 
soup with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
boil it for fifleen minutes before serving. 

- EEL. To make a tureenfol, take 



a couple of middling-sized onicHis, cut them 
in halif, and cross your knife over them two 
or three times; put two ounces of butter 
into a Btewpim, wiien it is melted put in the 
onions, stir tliem about till they are lightly 
browned; cut into pieces three pounds of 
eels, put tbem into your stewpan, and shake 
tham over the fire for five minutes ; then add 
three quarts of boiling water, and when they 
come to a boil, take the scum off very clean ; 
iben put in a quarter of an ounce of the 
nwea leaves (not dried) of winter savory, 
the same of lemon thyme, and twice the 



qmntity of parsley, two drachms of al^Me, 
the same of black pepper; cover it don, 
and let it boil gently for two boon; thai 
straiir it off, aiM skmi it very dean. Ts 
thickeo it, put three oonces of botler islo a 
clean stewpan; when it is mdted, stir in« 
moch Hour as will make it of a stiff paile, 
then add the liquor by degrees; letit sioDONr 
for ten minotes, and pass it through a sieve; 
then put yoor soup oo in a clean stewpu, 
and have rea^ some little square picon sf 
fish fried of a nice light brown, either eeb, 
soles, plaice, or skate will do; the fried 
fish shooki be added about ten minutes be* 
fore the soup is servedop. Forceflaest bslb 



Clean wj nioelf 
n. Take the 



GIBLET. 

two sets of giblets, parboil 4bem. 
skin off the feet; cut the ^iasards in quar- 
ters, the necks in three bits, the feet, fk^ 
ions, and livers, in two, the head ui tiro 
ako, fist taking off the bill ; boil them till 
nearly done eno^^ in a quartof weak gravy 
soup with an onion. Have ready boilug 
some rich highly-eeasooed brown gravy aosp; 
add the giblets and the liquor they havefaeea 
boiled in, with some choppe«i parsley; take 
out the <Hii<m, and thicken tlie soup with a 
bit of butter kneaded in flour. If die gibleli 
are not perfectly sweet and firesh, do not add 
the weak soup iiey were boiled in. Half a 
pint of wine may be added a little befiiie 
serving, but it is very good without. 

GOURD, ShoaU be nuufe «f 

full-grown gourds,*bat not those that haie 
hard skins; slice three or four, and puttfaoa 
in a stewpan, with two or three onions, asd 
a good bit of butter; set tbem over a dow 
fire till quite tender (be carefiil not to let 
them bom); then add two ounces of cruet of 
bread, and two quarts of good eatumHmt; 
season with salt and cayenne pepper: bsil 
ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour; akin 
off all tbe fet, and pass it through a tanw; 
then make it quite hot, and serve up widi 
fried bread. 

GRAVY, CLEAR. Cut half a 

pound of ham into slices, and bty thenn at 
the bottom of a bu^ stewpan or stockpet, 
with two or three pounds of lean beef, and 
as much veal ; break the bones, and lay then 
on the meat; take off the outer skin of two 
large onions and two turnips; virash, ckas, 
and cut into pieces a couple of large cairoM* 
and two beads of celoy ; and pot in three 
ckives and a kuge blade of maoe. Co«r 
the stewpan ckise, and set it over a saart 
fire. When die meat begins to stick to the 
bottom of the stewpan, turn it; and «ta 
there is a nice brown glaie at the bottom af 
the stewpan, cover the meat with hot noMr 



SOUPS 



205 



SOOPS 



watch it, and when it is coining to boil put 
V half a pint of cold water; lake off the 
flGom ; then put in half a pint more cold 
water, and skim it again, and continue to 
do BO tilt no more scum rises. Now set it 
on one side of tlie tire to boil gentlv for about 
four hours ; strain it through a clean tamis 
or napkin (do not squeeae it, or the soup 
will be thick) into a clean stone pan; let it 
remain till it is cold, and tlien remove all the 
frt. When you decant it, he careful not to 
disturb die settlings at the bottom of the 
pan. 

The broth should be of a fine amber color, 
and as clear as rock water. If it is not 
qoite so bright as you wish it, put it into a 
stewpan; break two whites and AeMa of 
eggs into a basin ; beat them well together ; 
pat them into the soup: set it on a quick 
fire, and «tir it with a whisk till it boils; 
then set it on one side of the fire to settle 
for ten minutes; run it tbrougli a £ne napkin 
into a basin, and it is reiidy. 

However, if your broth is carefully tkim- 
med, &c. according to the directions above 
given, it will be clear enou^ without clari* 
fying; wbicli process impaira the flavor of 
it in a higher proportion than it improves 
its appearance. This is the basis of almost 
all gravy soups, which are called by the 
name of the vegetables that are put into ihem. 
Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few 
leaves of chervil, make what is called spring 
soup, or soup sante; to this a pint of green 
pease, or asparagus pease, oi French beans 
cut into pieces, or a cabbage lettuce, are an 
improvement. With rice or Scotch barley, 
with macaroni or veimicelli, or celery cut 
into lengthi), it will be tlie soup usually call- 
ed hv those names. Or turnips acooped 
round, or young onions, will give you a clear 
tomip or onion soup ; and all tiiese vegeta- 
bles mixed together, soup oressi. The 
roots and vegetablies you use must be boiled 
first, or they will impregnate the soup with 
too strong a flavor. The seasoning for all 
these soups is the same, viz. salt and a very 
little cayenne pepper. 



- GAME. In the game 



is easy for a cook to give a very good soup 
at a very little expense, by taking all the 
meat off the blasts of any cold bit^s which 
have been left the (n^eceding day, and pound- 
ing it in a mortar, and beating to pieces the 
le^ and bones, and boiling them in some 
broth for an hour. Boil six turnips; mash 
them, and strain them through a tamis cloih 
with the meat that has been pounded in a 
mortar; strain ^our broth, and put a little 
of it at a time mto the tamis to help you to 
etrain all of it through. Put your soup-ket- 
tle near the fire, but do not let it boil: when 
raady to dish your dinner, have six yolks of 
18 



eggs mixed with half a pint of cream; stnda 
through a sieve ; put your soup on the fire, 
and as it is coming to boil, put in the eggs, 
and stir well with a wooden spoon : do not 
let it boil, or it will curdle. 



>■ HARE. Cut the hare in jomts 
as for a fricassee, and put it in a stewpan, 
with a little Hllspice, three blades <^ mace, 
some salt, and whole black pepper, a bunch 
of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, one of 
winter savory, four quarts of water, a slksn 
of ham, and four pounds of lean beef, two 
carrots, and four onions cut down; let it 
boil till it lie reduced to three quarts; sepa- 
rate the hare, and strain the soap over it, 
and add a pint of Port wine; boil it up be- 
fore serving. * 

' HERB. Wash and cut smaU 

twelve cabbage lettuces, a handful of chervil, 
one of purslane, one of parslev, eight lanm 
green onions, and tliree lmndtuls«if sorrel; 
when pease are in season omit half the quanti- 
ty of sorrel, and put a quait of young green 
pease; put them all into a saucepan, with 
half a pound of butter and three carrots cut 
small, some salt and pepper; let them stew 
ckisefy covered for half an hour, shaking 
them occasionally to prevent tlieir adhering 
to the pan ; fry in butter six cucumbers cot 
longways in four pieces; add them with four 
quarts of hot water, half a French roll, and 
a crust of bread toasted upon both sides; 
and let tbe whole boil till reduced to Uiree 
quarts, then strain it through a sieve ; beat 
up the yolks of four eggs with half a pint 
of cream, and stir it gently into the soup just 
before serving. 

HERB POWDER, OR VEG- 

ETABLE RELISH. Dried parsley, win- 
ter savorv, sweet marjoram, lemon tliyme, 
of each two ounces; lemon-peel, cut very 
thin, and dried, and sweet basil, an ounce 
of e^k Some add to tlie above boy-leaves 
and elrery-seed, a drachm each. Dry them 
in a warn, but not too hot Dutch oven: 
when quite dried, pound them in a mortar, 
and pass them through a double hair sieve ; 
put them in a bottle closely stopped, they 
will retain their fiagrance and flavor for 
several months. 

06«. — ^This composition of the fine aro* 
mntic herbs is an mvaluablc acquisition to 
the cook in those seasons or situations when 
fresh herbs cannot be liad ; and we prefer it 
to the ragout powder. It impregnates saucci 
soup, &c. with as mucli retifh, and i-enders 
it agreeable to the paJate, and refreslies the 
gustatory nerves, witliout so much risk of 
ojfending the stomach. 



INVAUD. an in small 



SOUPS 



206 



SOUPS 



one pound of beef or mutton, or part of both ; 
boit it gently in two quarts of water ; take 
off the scum, and wiien reduced to a pint, 
■train it. Season with a little salt, and take 
a tea-cupful at a time. 

* LOBSTER. (1) Oit small a 

dosen of common-sized onions, put them into 
a stewpan with a small bit of butler, a slice 
or two of lean ham, and a slice of lean beef; 
Mrlien the onions are quiie soft, mix g^-adu- 
ally with them some rich stock; let it boil, 
mod strain it through a fine hair sieve, press- 
ing the pulp of tm onions with a wooden 
^)oon; then boil it well, skimroinff it all the 
time. Beat the meat of a boiled cod, tlie 
spawn and body of a large lobster, or of two 
small ones, fn a marble mortar ; add grad- 
ually to it the soup, stirring it till it is as 
smooth as cream ; let it boifagain and scum 
iL Cut the tail and the claws of the lobster 
into pieces, and add them to the soup before 
•nring it, and also some pepper, cayenne, 
white pepper, and a glass of white wine. 
Forcemeat balls may be added to oyster soop 
and lobster soup, made as directed under the 
article " Forcemeat for fiah." 



LOBSTER. (2) You romt 

have three fine lively young hen bbstcra, 
split the tails ; take out the fish, crack the 
claws, and cut the meat into mouthfuL): 
take out the coral, and soft part of the budy ; 
bruise part of the coral in a mortar ; pick 
out the fish from the chines; beat part of it 
with the coral, and with this make foix;emeat 
balls, finely-flavored with mace or nutmeg, 
a little grated lemon-peel, anchovy and cay- 
enne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg. 

Have three quarts of veal broUi; bruise 
the small legs and the chine, and put them 
into it, to boil for twenty minutes, then 
strain it; and then to thicken it, lake the 
live spawn and bruise it in a mortiH' with a 
little butter and flour; rub it through a sieve, 
and add it to the soup with the m«sat g& the 
lobsters, and the remaining corlll^^t it 
simmer very gently for ten minut^;' di* not 
let it boil, or its fine red color will imme- 
diately &de; turn it into a tureen; add the 
juice of a good lemon, and a iiule essence 
of anehovy. 

• LORRAIN. Boil in four quarts 



of water a knuckle of veal, one pound of 
lean beef, and one pound of mutton, a car- 
rot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little 
lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper, 
till reduced to three, then strain the liquor ; 
pound very finely in a marble mortar, all the 
white meat of a large roasted fowl, with a 
quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, and 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; boil in 
Milk the cramb of a French roll, and pound 



it with the other ingredients, and stir it dl 
well into tlie soup; let it boil gently for ten 
"*■""*"" before serving. 



MAIGRE, OR VEGETABLE 

GRAVY. Put into a gallon stewpan three 
ounces of butter; set it over a sk>w fire; 
while it is melting, slice four ounces of 
^nion; cut in small pieces one tnmip, one 
carrot, and a head of celery ; pat them in the 
stewpan, cover it close, let it £7 till thej- are 
lightly iMPowned; tliis will take about two- 
ty-five minutes: have ready, in a saucepan, 
a pint of pease, with four qinurts of water; 
when the roots in the stewpan are qnite 
brown, and the pease come to a k)oil, put the 
pease and water to them ; put it on the fire; 
when it boils, skim it clesui, and put in a 
crust of bread about as big as the top of a 
twopenny loaf, twenty-four berries <^ all- 
spice, the same of black pepper, and two 
blades of mace; cover it close, let it simmer 
gently for one hoor and a half; then set it 
from the fire for ten minutes ; then poor it 
off very gmtlv (so as not to disturb the sedi- 
ment at the bottom of the stewpan) into a 
large basin ; let it stand (about two horn) 
till it is quite cle^ur: while this is doin^, 
shred one large turnip, the red part of a 
larae carrot, tliree ounces of onion minced, 
and one large head of celeiy cut into small 
bits ; put the turnips and carrots 00 the fire 
in cold water, let them boil five minatei, 
then drain them on a sieve, then pour off the 
soup clear into a stewpan, put in the roots, 
put the soup on the fire, let it simmer gently 
till the herbs are tender (from thirty to forty 
minutes), season it with salt and a little 
cayenne, and it is ready. You amy add a 
table-spoonful of musliroom ketchup. Yoa 
will have three quarts of soup, as well colore 
ed, and almost as well flavored, as if made 
with gravy meat. To make tliia it requiiei 
nearly five hours. To fi-y the heiHbs requira 
twenty-five minutes ; to boil all together, ooe 
hour and a half; to settle, at the least, two 
hours ; when clear, and put on the fire agaio, 
half an hour more. 

. MACARONI. (1) Boil for t 



hours very qukskly, in five quarts of water, 
seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a desBert- 
spoonful of white pepper, and three or hv 
blades of mace; strain it off, pot it into a 
saucepan, mid keep it hot upon a stove. 
Mix five table-spoonfuls cf floor with two 
ounces of butter, put it into an inm-tinnid 
saucepan, and stir il over the fire till it be 
melted ; add half a pint of the strained rtock, 
and then graduallv mix tlie whole tt^etfaer, 
and keep stirring constantly till it thiskeBS, 
and then add two ounces and a half of mac* 
aroni, previously tioiled in milk and va» 
for eignt minutes; stir it again till it boil* 



J 



SOUPS 



207 



SOUPS 



Take the fMo off the stove, and rtir in by 
degrees about three-quarters of a pint ef rich 
sweet cream, and just let it boil oefore ser- 
ving. 

MACARONI. (2) Make a good 

stock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet 
maijoram, parsley, some salt, white pepper, 
tliree blades of mace, and two or three on- 
ions; strain and boil it. Break in small bits 
a-quarter of a poimd of macaroni, and gently 
simmer it in milk and water till it be swell- 
ed and is lender; strain it, and add it to the 
soup, which tliKken with two table^poonfiils 
of flour« mixe'^ in half a pint of cream, and 
stirred gradually into the soup. Boil it a few 
aainntes before serving. 

MOCK TURTLE. Endeavor 

to have the head and the broth ready for tiie 
soup, the day before it is to be eaten. It 
will take eig:ht hours to prepare it properly. 

hours. 

Cleaning and aoakini; the bead 1 

To parboil it to cut up 1 

Coolin)?, nearly 1 

Making tbe broth and finishing the soup 5 

8 
Get a calf *8 head with the skin on (the 
firesher the better); take out the braliis, 
wadi the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak for about an hour in sfNring water, 
then lay it in a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold water, and half a gallon over ; as it be- 
comes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, 
whk^ most be immediately removed ; let it 
boil gently for one hour, take it up, and when 
almost cold, cut the head into pieces about 
an inch and a half by an inch and a quarter, 
and the tongue into mouthfuls, or rather 
make a side-dish of the tongue and brains. 

When the head is taken out, put in the 
Btock meat, about five pounds of knuckle of 
veal, and as much beef; add to tlie stock all 
the trimmings and bones of the head, skim 
it well, and then cover it ckise, and let it 
boil live hours (reserve a couple of quarts of 
this to make gravy sauces) ; then strain it off, 
and let it stand till the next morning ; then 
take off the fat, set a large stewpan on the 
fire with half a pound of good fresh butter, 
twelve ounces of onions sliced, and four oun- 
ces of green sage ; chop it a little; let these 
fry one hour ; then rub in half a pound of 
flour, and by degrees add your broth till it is 
the thickness of cream ; season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
half an ounce of black pepper ground very 
fine, salt to your taste, and the rind of one 
lemon peeled very thin; let it dimmer very 
gently for one hour and a half, then strain it 
tbru(%h a hair sieve ; do not rub your soup 
to get it through the sieve, or it will make it 
grouty; if it does Dot nin through easily, 



knock your wooden spoon against the skie 
of your sieve ; put it in a clean stewpan with 
the heauA, and season it fay adding to each 
calbn of soup half a pint of wine ; this should 
be Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the 
colcM* of your soup, claret, and two tablo- 
spoonfuls of lerooii-juice; let it simmer geutly 
till the meat is tender; this may take from 
half an liour to an hour: take care it is not 
over-done ; stir it fi^uently to prevent tbe 
meat sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, 
and when the meat is quite tender the soup 
is ready. . 

A head weighing twenty pounds, and ten 
pounds of stock meat, will make ten quarts 
of excellent soup, besides the two quarts of 
stock you hnve put by for made dishes. 

06«. — If there is more meat on the head 
than yon wish to put in tlie soup, prepare it 
for a pie, and, with the addition of a calCt 
foot boiled tender, it will make an excellent 
ragout pie; season it with zest, and a little 
minced onion, put in half a tea-cupful of 
stock, cover it with puff paste, and bake it 
one hour: when die soup comes from table, 
if there is a deal of meat and no soup, put it 
into a pie-dish, season it a little, and add 
some littk} stock to it; then cover it with 
paste, bake it one hour, and you have a 
good mock turtle pie. 

To season it, to each gallon of soup pot 
two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, same of 
mushroom ketchup, and one of essence of 
anchovy, half a pint of wine (this should be 
Madeira, or, if you wisli to darken the color 
of your soup, claret), a tea-spoonful of curry 
powder, or a quarter of a drachm of cayenne, 
'^nd the peel of a lemon paied as thin as 
possible; let it simmer five minutes more, 
take out the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready 
for the tureen. 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each 
tureen a dozen and a half of mock turtle 
fitrcemeat balls, and put them into the tureen. 
Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant ad- 
dition, and are made by boiling tfie' brains 
for 1^ minutes, then putting tt 
water, and cutting diem into pie 
big as a large nutmeg; take savory, orl 
thyme dried and finely powdered, nu!l ^ 
grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them 
all together; beat up an e^, dip the brains 
in it, and then roll them in this mixture, and 
make as much of it as possible stick to theoA;; 
dip them in the egg again, and then in finely- 
grated and sifted bread-crumbs; fry them in 
hot fat, and send them up as a side dish. 

A veal sweetbread, not too much done or 
it will break, cut into pieces the same siae 
as you cut tlie calHs head, and put in the 
soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, 
is a superb " bonne bouche;" and pickled 
tongue, stewed till very tender, and cut into 
mouthfuls, is a favorite addition. We oider 




SOUPS 



S08 



SOUPS 



(he meat to be cut into moothiiib, that it 
may be eaten with a eipoon: the knife and 
fork have no business in a soup-plate. 

N. B. — ^In helping this soup, tlie distri- 
buter of it should serve out the meat, (brce- 
roeat, and gi*avy, in equal parts ; Iiowever 
trifling or needless this remark may appear, 
the writer has often suffered from the want 
of such a hint being given to tlie soup-serv- 
er, who has sometimes sent a plate of noere 
gravy wiUiout meat, at others, of meat with- 
out gravy, and sometimes scarcely any thing 
but forcemeat halls. 

Obi. — ^This is a delicious soup, within 
the reach of those who " eat to live ; " but 
if it had been composed expressly for those 
who only ** live to eat," I do- not know how 
it could have been made more agreeable: as 
it is, the lover of good eating will "wish his 
throat a mile long, and every inch of it palate." 

- MOCK MOCK TURTLE. Line 



;- MOOIt-FOWL. It msLj he 

made with or without brown gravy sonf ; 
when with the former, uix birds are sim- 
cient, when with mo(n--fowl only, boil £ve i|i 
four quarts of water, pound the breasts in a 
mortar and rub it through a sieve, put it 
with the lep, backs, and dii'ce more moor« 
fowl, cut down in joints, into the liquor, 
season with a pint of Port wine, pej^per, 
and sah, and let it boil an heir. When 
only six birds are used, pound the breaeti 
of three or four. 



the bottom of a stewpan that will hold five 
pints, with an ounce of nice lean bticon or 
bam, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, 
a cow-heel, the inner rind of a carrot, a sprig 
of lemon thyme, winter savory, three times 
the quantity of parsley, a few green leaves 
of sweet basil, and two eschalots; put in a 
large onion, with four cloves stuck in it, 
eighteen corns of allspice, the same of black 
pepper ; pour on these a quarter of a pint 
of coJd water, cover the stewpan, and set it 
on a slow fire, to boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour; then, for fear tlie meat should 
catch, take off the cover, and watch it ; and 
when it has got a good brown color, fill up 
the stewpan with boiling water, and let it 
simmer very gently for two hours: if you 
wiHh to have the fiill benefit of the meat, 
only stew it till it is ^ust tender, cut it into 
mouthfuis, and put it into the soup. To 
thicken it, pour two or throe Uible-spoonfuls 
of flour, a ladleful of tlie gravy, and stir it 
quick till it is well mixed ; pour it back in- 
to the stewpan where tlie gravy is, and let 

^l^l^l^r gentry for half an hourffnger; 

l^^^^n^nnd then strain it through a tamis 
l^P^ the stewfKin: cut the cow-heel into 
pieces about an inch squai'c, squeeze through 
;i sieve the juic^ of a lemon, a table-spoon- 
ful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of 
salt, half a tea-sjwonful of ground black 
pepper, as much grated nutmeg as will lie 
on a sixpence, and a glass of Madeira or 
Sherry wine ; let it all simmer together for 
five niinutes longer. Forcemeat or egg balls 
may be added if you please. 

A pound of veal cutlets, or the belly part 
of pickled pork, or nice double tripe cut in- 
to pieces aix)ut an inch square, and half an 
inch thick, and rounded and trimmed neat- 
ly from all skin, gristle, &c. and stewed till 
ttiey are tender, will be a great addition. 



— MULLAGATAWNY. (1) Prt 

half a pound of fresh butter, w ith six lar^ 
onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some 
chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into 
a stewpan, let it stew over a slow fire tiH 
i of a light brown color; cut in small pieces 
I five pounds of lean beef, and let that stew 
till the gravy be extracted, and then put in 
I tliree quarts of boiling water, and half a 
I pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer 
1 four hours very slowly; mix four table- 
spoonfuls of curry-powder with cold water, 
and add it to the stock ; take out the beef, 
and rub the barley through a sieve, to thick- 
en the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, 
and put it in a stewpan with a piece of but- 
ter, and let it stew till quite tender; the 
stewpan inust be kept closely covered: this 
to be added tu the soup, the last tJiing, with 
a pint of boilins milk, and the juice of two 
lemons. Boiled rice must always be ^ened 
with this soup. 

MULLAGATAWNY. (2) 

Make a strong stock of the bones of roasted 
beef, mutton, and fowl; while it is prepar- 
I i"g» put into a stewpan, with six ounces of 
j butter, three quarts of sliced turnip, two 
I quarts of carrots, and eight laige onions 
I also sliced ;' let tliem stew upon the stove till 
j tender; dien add three quarts of the pre- 
pared stock, a large slice of the cnirobof 
j bread, and two table-spoonfuls of cuii}- 
j powder; let them stew four or five hours; 
strain it through a tammy cloth, with 
two wooden spoons, taking care that no 
bones be left amongst the vegetables; if too 
thick to go thrbogh, add raoi-e stock. Thai 
cut a fowl in piecei?, fi-y it in a frying-pan 
with butter, and add it to the soup; afier 
it has boiled a little, draw it to the side 
of tlie stove, and let it simmer, tliat the 
grease may be taken oflf. A little good 
beef stock, in addition to that made of the 
bones will be an improvement. It is some- 
times thickened with whole, or ground rice, 
instead of bread, aud ought to be mads 
upon a stove. 



ONION, Boil in four 



water six pounds of a knuckle 



lour quarts of 
of veal, with 



SOUPS 



209 



SOUPS 



ft desBert-flpoonfiil of vHiole white pepper, 
and a few bbdes of mace; when the meat 
is so much boiled as to leave the boiie, straio 
off the stock. The following day boil nine 
or ten large Spanish onions in milk and 
water, till atifficientiy tender to pulp through 
a sieve ; take the iat off frcnn the top of the 
stock, boil it op, and add the onions with 
about a qoarter of a pound of finesh butter 
worked with two heaped table-spoonfiib of 
sifted floiir of rice, and a little salt ; boil it 
gently for half an hour, stirring it constantly, 
and a little befinne serving, stir in half a pint 
of rich cream. 



GX-HEAD, Should be pre- 
pared the day before it is to beeaten, as you 
cannot cut the meat off the head into neat 
mootbfols raileas it is cold: therefore, the 
day before you want this soup, put half an 
ox-cheek into a tub of cold water to soak 
for a couple of hours ; then break the bones 
that have not been broken at the butcher's, 
and wash it very well iu vrarm water; put 
it into a pot, and cover it with cold water ; 
when it boils, skim it very clean, and tlien 
pot in one head of celery, a couple of carrots, 
a turnip, two large (mions, two doxoi ber- 
ries of black pepper, same of allspice, and 
a bundle of sweet herbs, such as maijoram, 
lemon thyme, savory, and a handful of pars- 
ley ; cover the soup-pot close, and set it on a 
slow fire ; take off the scum, which will rise 
when it is coming to a boil, and set it by tlie 
fireside to stew very gently (or about tliree 
boars ; take out the Mad, lay it on a dish, 
pour the soup through a fine sieve into a, 
stone-ware pan, and set it and the head 1^ 
in a cool place till the next day; then cut 
the meat into neat mouthfols, skim and strain 
off the broth, put two quarts of it and the 
meat into a clean stewpan, let it simmer very 
gently for half an hour longer, and it is 
ready. If you wish it thickened, put two 
ounces of butter into a stewpan ; when it is 
melted, th«*ow in as much flour as will dry it 
up; when they are all well mixed toother, 
aiid browned by degrees, pour to this your 
soup, and stir it well together; let it simmer 
for h'Uf an hour longer; strain it through a 
hair sieve into a ckan stewpan, and put to 
it the meat of the head ; let it stew half an 
hour longer, apd season it with cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a glass of good wine, or a 
tabfe-spooofol of brandy. If you serve it as 
KMip for a dosen people, thicken one tureen, 
and send up the meat in that; and send up 
the odier as a clear gravy soup, with some 
of the carrots and turnips shredded, or cut 
into shapes. 



OX-HEEL, Must be made the 

day before it is to be eaten. Procure an 
<nMieel undraHed, or only scalded, and two 
18* 



that have been boiled as they usoally are lA 
the tripe shops. 

Cut the meat off the boiled heels into neat 
mouthfols, and set it by on a plate; put the 
trimmings and bones in a stewpan, with threa 
quarts of water, and the unboiled heel cut into 
qoartors; furnii^ a stewpan with two onions, 
and two turnips pared and sliced ; pare off 
the red part of a couple of large carrots, add 
a couple of eschaloti cut in half, a bunch of 
savory or lemon thyme, and double the quan- 
tity of parsley ; set this over, or by the side 
of a slow, steady fire, and keep it closely 
covered and simmering very gently (or the 
soup liquor will evaporate) for at least seven 
hours: during, whicn, take care to remove 
the fot and scum that will rise to the surface 
of the soup, which must be kept as clean as 
possible. 

Now strain the liquor throu^ a sieve, 
and put two ounces of butter into a clean 
stewpan ; when it is melted, stir into it as 
much flour as will make it a stiff paste ; add 
to it by degrees the soup liquor ; give it a 
boil up; strain it througti a sieve, and put 
in tlie peel of a lemon pared as thin as pos- 
sible, and a couple of bav-leaves, and the 
meat of the boiled oeels; let it go on sim- 
mering for half an hour longer, t. e. till tlie 
meat is toider. Put in the juice of a lemon, 
a glass of wine, and a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, and tlie soup is ready fur tlie 
tureen. 

Those who are disposed to make this a 
more substantial dish, may introduce a 
couple of sets of goose or duck giblets, or 
ox-tails, or a pound of veal cutlets, cut into 
mouthfols. 

OX-TAIL. Three tails, costing 

about 2d. each, will make a tureen of sonp 
(desire the butcher to divide tliem at the 
joints) ; lay them to soak in warm water, 
while you get ready the vegetables. 

Put into a gallon stewpan eight cloves, 
two or three onions, half a dradim of all- 
spice, and the same of black pepper, and 
the tails: cover them with cold water; skim 
it carefully, when and as long as you see 
any scum rise; then covor the pot as close 
as possible, and set it on the side of the 
fire to keep gently simmering till the meat 
becomes tender and will l^ve tlie bones 
easily, because it is to be eaten with a spoon« 
without the assisUnce of a knife or fork ; this 
will require about two hours: mind it is not 
done too much: when perfectly tender, take 
out the meat and cut it off the bones, in 
neat moutbfuls; skim tlie broth, and siraio 
it tliroi^ a sieve ; if you prefer a thicken- 
ed soup, put flour and butter, as directed ia 
the preceding receipt; or put two table- 
spoonfuls of tlie fet you have taken off the 
broth into a dean stewpan, with as much 



SOUPS 



210 



SOUPS 



toor M will make it into a paste ; net this 
over ihe fire, ami stir them well together; 
then pour in the broth by degreed, stirring 
it, and mixing it willi the thickening; let 
it simmer for another half hour, and when 
you have well skimmed it, and it is quite 
smooth, then strain it througli a tamis into 
a clean stewpan, put in the meat, with a 
tabki-spoonfiil of miuhroora ketchup, a glass 
of wine, and season it with salt. 

Obs. — If the meat is cut off the bones, 
you must have three tails for a tureen, some 
put an ox-cheek or tails in an earthen 
pan, with all tlie ingredients as above, and 
send them to a slow oven for five or six 
hours. 



-. PEAS, GREEN. (1) A peck of 

peas will make you a good tureen of soup. 
In shelling them, put the old ones in one 
basin, and the young ones in another, and 
keep out a pint of them, and boil them 
separately to put into your soup when it is 
finislied: put a large saucepan on the fire 
half fiiil of water; when it boikt, put the 
peas in, with a handfiil of salt ; let them 
boil till they are done enough, t. «. from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to their 
age and size; then drain them in a oolan- 
der, and put them into a clean gallon stew 
pan, and three quarts of pbiin veal or mut- 
ton broth (drawn from meat without any 
spices or herbs, &c. which would overpow- 
er the flavor of tlie soup) ; cover the stewpan 
close, and set it over a slow fire to stew 
gently for an hour ; add a tea-cu|^ of bread 
crumbs, and then rub it through a tamis in- 
to another stewpan ; stir it with a wooden 
spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little 
more broth: have ready boiled as for eating, 
a pint of young peas, and put them into the 
soup; season with a little sak and su^. 

Some cooks, while this soup is going on, 
slice a couple of cucumbers (as you would 
for eating) ; take out the seeds; lay them 
on a cloth to drain, and then flcnir them, 
wd fry them a light brown in a little but- 
ter; put them into the soup the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

If the soup is not green enough, pound a 
handful of pea-hulls or spinage, and squeeze 
the juice through a cloth into the soup: some 
leaves of mint may be added, if approved. 

PEAS, GREEN. (2) Pot a 



pint of old green peas into three quarts of 
water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two 
onions, a sprig of mint, some salt and pep- 
per; boil thcwn till the peas are perfectly 
soft, then pulp them through a sieve; have 
ready two ksttuces stewed tender tn butter, 
and a pint and a half of young green peas 
boiled; put them into the soup with a little 
■pioaeh juice, and a quarter of a pint of 



the juice of tlie youngest pea pods, and boil 
it aU together before serving. 

PEAS, GREEN, WITHOUT 



MEAT. Take a quart of green peas (keqi 
out half a pint of tlie youngest; boil tlieo 
separately, and put them in tlie soup wbea 
it is finished) ; put them on in boiling water; 
boil them tencier, and then pour ofi* the vnr 
ter, and set it by to make the soup with: put 
the ))eas into a mortar, and pound them to 
a mash ; then put them into two qoarts of 
the water you boiled the peas in; stir ail 
well togetlier ; let it boil up for about fire 
minutes, and then rub it through a hair sieve 
or tamis. If the peas are giM)d, it will be 
as thick and fine a vegetabfe aoup as need 
be sent to tat^ 

-PEAS, OLD. (1) Putapoond 



and a half of split peas on in four quarts of 
water, with roast beef or mutton bones, and 
a ham bone, two heads of celery, and fov 
onions, let them boil till the peas besofi' 
ciently soft to pulp through a sieve, strain it, 
put it into the pot Hith pepper and salt, and 
boil it nearly an hour. Two or three Insd' 
fills of spinach, well washed and cut a little, 
added wlien the soup id strained, is a great 
improvement; and in the summer yoong 
green peas in place of the spinach. A tea> 
spoonful of celery seed, or essence of celery, 
if celery is not to be had. 

PEAS, OLD. (2) Boilio6ic 



quarts of water one quart of split peas, ao 
ounce of butler, four pounds of best, two 
carrots, three turnips, four heads of celery, 
three onions, some salt and black pepper; 
boil them tiH the peas are dissolved and 
will easily pulp, put it all through a siefe, 
then put tlie scHip over the fire with three 
ounces of butter and a table-apoonfiil of floor, 
and boil a small bit of lean ham in~it, till it 
is time to serve; take it out before dishtogi 
and have ready some celery rtewed in buttefi 
and fried bread cut in dice, and dried mist 
rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. 

PEAS, OLD. (8) Boil in for 



quarts of water a shank of ham, or a piece 
of bacon, aAd about half a pound of Hiuttoo, 
or salt beef, and a pint of split peas; boil 
all together very gently till the peas are 
quite soft, strain tl^ turougli a hair sieve, 
and bruise them widi the badKofaspooo till 
all is pulped through, then boil the soup gnt- 
ly for one hour b^re serving. Thin nioci 
of bread toasted and cut in dice to he semd 
with it, eitlier upon a dish or in the soup; 
if in tiie soup, it shouki be fried in butler, 
and dried mint rubbed fine and sent to table 
in a small dish. It may be also made with 
fourpeoce worth of bones, boiled for ooM 



&O0PS 



211 



8001^8 



iKmra in foor qutuis of water, with a carrot, 
a head of celery, three onions, Bome pepper 
and salt, strained, and the next day the Ikt 
taken off, and the peas boiled in the liquor 
with a little bit uf butler, tiU rafiiciently ten- 
der to pulp ihroi^ a sieve. 

PEAS, PLAIN. To a quart 



of split peas, and two headu of celery (and 
most cooks would put a iai^ onion), put 
diree f|uarts of broth or soft water; let them 
simmer gently on a trivet over a slow fire 
for three lioiirs, stirring up every quarter of 
an hour to prevent the peas burning at the 
bottom of the soup-kettle (if the water boils 
awa^', and the soup gets too thick, add some 
faoihng water to it) ; when they are well sof- 
tened, work them through a coarse sieve, 
and then through a fine sieve or a tamis; 
wash out ^our stewpan, and then retmn the 
soup into It, and give it a boil up ; take off 
any scum that comes up, and it is ready. 
Prepare fried bread, ana dried mint, as dn 
rectad io Okl Peas (2) and send them up 
with it OS two side dishes. 

06«. — ^This is an excellent fiunily soup, 
produced with very little trouble or expense. 

- PIGEON. (1) Have a strong beef 



stock, highly seascmed, aund if for rich soup, 
take six or eight pigeons according to their 
size, wash them dean, cut off the necks, pin- 
iona» livers and gizzards, and put them into 
Che stock; quarter the pigeons and brown 
them nicely; afler having strained the stock, 
put in the pigeons; let them boil till nearly 
ready, which will be in about half an hour, 
then thicken it with a little flour, rubbed 
down in a tea-cupful of the soup, season it 
with hsdf a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful 
of lemon Juice or of vin^^r, and one of 
mushroom ketchup; let it boil a few minutes 
after all these ingredients are put in, and 
serve it with the pigeons in the tureen; a 
better thickening than flour is to boil quite 
tender two of the pigeons, take off all the 
Bieat and pound it in a mortar, rub it through 
a sieve, and put it, with the cut pigeons, 
into the strained soup. To make partridge 
soup, partridges may be substituted for pig- 
eons, when only fi>ur birds will be required; 
pound the breast d'one. 

-PIGEON. (2) Take eight pig- 



eons, cut down two of the oklest, and put 
them, with the necks, pinions, livers, a^d 
gizzards of the others, into four quarts of 
water; let it boil till the substan^ be extrac- 
ted, and strain it; season the pigeons with 
mixed spices and salt, and trass them as for 
stewing; pick and wash clean a handfiil of 
parsley, chives or yoimg onions, and a g|ood 
deal of spinach ; chop them ; put in a frying- 
pan a quarter of a pound of butter, and when 



it boils, mix in a handfiil of bread enaJbt 
keep stirring them with a knife tiH of a fine 
brown; bi»il the whole pigeons till they b^ 
come tender in the stock with the lierU, and 
fried bread. If the soup be not siiflkienrly 
high seasoned, add more mixed spices and 

PORTABLE. Put 00, in fiwr 

sallons of wato*, ten pounds of a shin of 
beef, free from fet and skin, six poimds of a 
knuckle of veal, and two fowls, break the 
bones and cut the meat into small pieces, 
season with one ounce of whole black pep- 
per. Quarter of an ounce of Januiica pepper, 
and tlie same of mace, cover the pot very 
closely, and let it simmer fer twelve or feur- 
leen hours, and then strain it. The lulk>w- 
ing day, take off die fat, and clear the jell^ 
finom any sediment adhering to it; boil it 
gently upon a stove, without covering the 
saucepan, and stir it frequentlv till it be- 
comes very thick and in lumps about the pan. 
Put it into saucers about half full, and when 
cold lay the cakes, upon flannel to dry before 
the fire or in the sun ; keep them m a tin 
box, with white paper between each cake. 
About an ounce wei^t will make a pint of 
rich soup; pour boiling water upon it with 
a little salt, and stir it till it dissolves. It 
also answers well for gravies and all brown 



FOR THE POOR. Wash an 

ox-bead v&ry clean; break the bones, and 
cut the meat in pieces; put it on in thirteen 
gallons of water, and a peck and a half of 
potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same 
quantity of onions, and some carrots ; peel and 
cut them aU down. A handfid of pot herbs, 
and two Quarts of •oatmeal; season with 
peppor and salt. Cover the pot closely, and 
let It stew till the next morning; add as 
much hot water as may have wasted in boiW 
ing, and let it stew for some hours longw, 
when it will be fit for use. This soup wiU 
be found veiy good for a femily dinner. 

QUEEN. Pound in a marble 

mortar the white meat of three cold roasted 
fowls, and half a pound of sweet almonds 
blanched; add a littfe cream whilst pound- 
ing. Boil this with four quarU of well-sea- 
soned beef stock, then strain it, and just 
before serving stir in a pint of cream. 

SANTE. (1) Peel fiiar brgs 

onions, cut them small, with fiwr white 1^- 
tuces, a handful of spinach, and a slice of 
grated bt^ead. Stew all these ingredients 
for ao hour in a quart of broth and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, then add three pints 
more oC broth, skim off all the fi&t, and boiJ 
it a quarter of an hour, season with pepper 



dotrps 



31S 



SOUPS 



■nd salt. Before Mnring, add half a piot 
of ffood cream. A pint of green peas, ad- 
ded with the other Tegetables, is a great im- 



SANTE. (2) Lay six or eight 

slices of lean ham, with some beef over than, 
at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, 
with some partri(%e-leg8, or moor game, or 
diidien, salt, peppercoms, Jamaica pepper, 
three or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and one 
dove of garlic; let the whole stew tosether 
till it takes a fine brown color, then fill it up 
with half water, and half good beef stock; 
add three lieads of celery, two good turnips, 
parsley, lemoo thyme, two carrots, three 
large onions, and a small bunch of winter 
savory ; wlien the whole is thorou^ly well 
done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a ba- 
sin. Oit two gooOHsized turnips and three 
large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness 
of a quill, and an inch and a half long; fry 
these together of a nice brown color: next, 
■hred two cabbase-lettuces, celery, endive, 
sorrel, and chervil ; and stew them down on 
a very slow fire with a small bit of butt^. 
When done, put them in a sieve with the 
turnips ; then pot them into a soup-pot, and 
pour the soup from the basin over them ; set 
It on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils, 
set it on one side, and let it siouner for two 
hours veiy gently; take the cmrob of a 
couple of French rolls, and cut it into round 
pieces, which brown in the oven, and put 
them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon 
them. If you think |xx>per, it may be clari- 
fied, the same as other clear soups; but the 
real Soup de £>anl« ought not to be clarified. 

SIMPLE. Cut small one pound 

of carrcM, one pound of turnips, half a 
pound of onions, one lettuce, a little celery, 
and a handfol of parsley; stew them for 
twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound 
of butter, some salt and pepper; then put 
them, into three quarts of stock, made with 
two pounds of veal, and add one quart of 

freen peas, and let it stew for three hours, 
^ress It through a sieve, and boil it up before 
sending it to table. 

SPRING. Put on in four quarts 



of water a knuckle of veal cut down, and a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham, or a gam- 
mon of bacon; a quart of green split peas; 
cut small three or four onions, three turnips, 
a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one leek ; 
»tevi» tliem all* together till the peas are very 
soft; take out the meat and press the re- 
mainder through a fine sieve; season the 
, Boup with j)epper and salt. Cut small like 
peas a bunch of the tops of asparagns, the 
nearts of two or three cabbages, cutting ofi" 
the top part and the outside leaves, and a 



little green mint, stew them till teDder, - 
keeping them of a good green, and add diem 
to the soup a quarter <^an hour before serv* 
ing. If It should not be green enuo^, ' 
pound some spinach, squeeze the joice 
throu^ a ck>th, pot about a qoarter of a 
pint into the tureen, and pour in the soup. 
This is tlie best method to make green peai 
soup of a good color. 

STOVE OR SPINACH. Boil 

in two quarts of water three sliced onions. 
Pick and clean as much ^inach as wifl 
make two large dishes, parboil and pot it in 
a cullender, to let the bitter water drip from 
it ; let cold water run upon it for a mmute 
or two, and then press out the water. Knead 
two ounces of fi'esh butter, with a table- 
spoonful and a half of flour, mix it with the 
spinach, which boil for fifteen minuten in the 
water and onions, then put in half a piot of 
cream or good milk, some sak and pepper, 
boil it for fifteen mi mites more. In the 
seasfui of green peas, a quart added with 
the spinach is a great improvement. It is 
oommcMi to boil a lamb's bead and pluck 
with the soup, and send them to table in the 
tureen. The soup is then called Lamb's 
Stove ; but with the peas it is quite ka good 
without. 

VEGETABLE. Pare and cot 

small one dozen of common-sized onioos, 
five lai^ yelk>w tnmips, two beads of celeiy, 
and the red part of three large carrots ; wash 
and put them in a stewpan with two ounces 
of butter, cover it closely; and when the 
vegetables are a little soft, add to them foor 
quarts of well-seasoned gravy soap made of 
roast beef bones, and let it stew four or five 
hours ; rub it throu^ a tammy, put it on the 
fire, boil and skim it before serving. 

WINTER VEGETABLE. (1) 

Peel and slice six lai^ onions, six potatoes, 
and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of 
butter or very fresh dripping ; toast a crust 
of bread brown and hard, pot it, with tvro or 
three heads of celeiy cut small, some herbs, 
pepper, and salt, with the firied vegetables, 
into five pints of water, to stew gently for 
four hours, then strain it through a sieves 
add a little carrot and celery cut anuill, and 
some cho|^3ed parsley, one anchovy or a red 
herrinff, and a little cayenne; boil it till the 
tegeubles are tender. 

. WINTER VEGETABLE. (8) 



To every callon of water alk)w, when ___ 
down small, a quart of the following vegeta- 
bles ; equal quantities of tnmips, cai-rcMs, and 
potatoes, three onions, two heads of celery, 
and a bunch of sweet herbs; fry them brown 
in a quarter of a pound of butter, add Ifaa 



SOUPS 



213 



SODPd 



%a%er with salt and pepper, and boil it till 
reduced to three quarts, and serve it with 
fried toasted bread. 



VEMSON. Boil down in five 

qoarts cf water two pounds of a shank of 
ireal, or fowl, and five pounds of the breast 
of venison cot small; two or tfai-ee onions 
diopped, some whole white PWer and sah, 
with a quarter of a pound of lean ham. 
Let it stew till it be oonpletely boiled down, 
when all the strength will be extracted; nib 
it thrcMK^ a sieve, thicken it with a little 
butler, kneaded in floor, and add a pint of 
Madeira, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. 

BROWN VENISON. Out in 



small pieces six or seven poimds of the 
breast of venison, pot it in a stewpan with 
two or three ounces of butter; cover it 
dosely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew 
an hour. Mix four quarts of cold water 
with a pint and a half of the blood, put it 
on the fire in anotiim* stewpan, and stir it 
constantly till it boil ; then add the stew to 
it with an onion minced small, and a whole 
carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pep- 
per. If the meat be young, let it Iwil gent- 
ty for two hours; if old, two and a half will 
be neceasary. A little before serving, take 
out the carrot and all the bones, leaving a 
little of the meat; mix in half a pint of 
Port wine, and let it boil a short time. It 
may be thickened with a little flour and 
butter. 



VERMICELLI. The day be- 
fore it is required make four quarts of good 
stock, and boil in it one carrot, one turnip, 
(bur onions, one or two psirsley roots, three 
blades of mace, stilt, and some white pepper; 
strain it, and, before using, take off all the 
&t ; boil in some of the li<|uor the crumb of 
rtiree French rolls till soft enough to mash 
smooth ; boil the soup and stir well in the 
mashed rolls; hoW it for a quarter of an 
hour, and, before serving, add the yolks of 
two eggs beaten with three table-spoonfuls 
of cream; Iwil in water two or three ounces 
of vermicelli for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
strain and pot it into the tureen, and pour 
the soup upon it* 

WHITE. (1) Boil together a 

Icnockle of veal, a fowl, or two chickens 
skinned, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, aome 
salt, and a little whole white pepper ; take 
ont the chickens when tender, cut diem in 
Joints, and add them to the soup when 
strained, beat up tlie yolks of nine eggs, mix 
them with a pint of cream and a ttihle-spoon- 
fol of weII-lK)ile<i rice; stir it gradually into 
4tie soup, and heat it gently bef<jre serving^. 



A oow-beel that ha« been preyioasly boiladt 
cot up in pieces, may be used instead of the 
chickens. 



WHITE. (2) Take a good 

knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks, 
boil it about four hours, with some whole 
white pepper, a little mace, salt, two onioM, 
and a smoill bit of lean hain; strain it, and 
when cold take ofi* all the iat and sediment ; 
beat up six yolks of ^gs and mix them with 
a pint of good cream, then pour the hoiliog 
soup upon it by degrees, stirriag it MnM, 
and if it is liked, .add the best part of the 
gristles. 

WHITE. (8) Put on in fiNT 

quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six poaads 
weight, a quarter of a pound of lean ham or 
bacon, two slices of the crumb a( bread, one 
ounce of blanched sweet ahnoods, pat in 
wholes nx middlingHBiaed onions, two heads 
of celery, some whole white peppftr, three 
blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a 
sprig of thyme; stew all these gently (or 
eight hows, strain it, and when cold take 
off all the fat; boil it, and just before serv- 
ing, take it off the fire, and stir in veiy 
gradually a pint of thick cream. 

WHITE, (4) Boil in four 

quarts of water four pounds of veal^ and a 
fowl, with some whole white pepper, a little 
mace, and three middling-siaea onions whole, 
and a bunch of paisley; let it lioil three 
hours, strain it, and put it on again to gi^ 
quite hot, and 'ust before serving, stir in 
gradnally half a pint of cream with the yolks 
of three eggs well beaten. Do not let it boil, 
as Uiat makes tlie e^;8 curdle. 



WHITE. (6) Stew m three quarts 

of boiling water, till quite tender, a knuckle 
of veal, widi a quarter of a pound of whole 
rice, diree whole onions, a bunch of parsley, 
a little sweet marjoram, and two or three 
blades of mace, and some sak ; a little before 
the soup is strained, add two anchovies; 
strain Uiroogh a hair sie^'e and then diitnigh 
a siUc one, oi- tammy, put it again upon tlie 
fire, and stir in half a pint of rich cream, or 
a pint of milk with the yolks of two eg^ 
beat up in it; let it be hot but not boiling* 
If it is i^uired to be richer, boil a fowl m 
the stock, with two ounces of pounded blanch* 
ed sweet almonds. 

WHITE. («) Pot on in five 



quarts of water, four pounds of a shank of 
veal, break the bone well, kit it simmer till 
it be reduced nearly half; boil a tea-cupfiil 
of whole rice till very tender, pulp it throush 
a cullendm*, stmin the liquor, and add tho 
rice^ season with salt and white peeper, ki 



dPA 



214 SPl 



k simmer for nearly an hoor, and add, a 
little before serving, six yolks of eggs beaten 
extremely well. 

SOUR KROUT. The best caliboge for 
this purpose is the drum, or white Stras- 
burgh, and it should not be used till it has 
endured some severe frost; the stocks are 
then cut into halves, and shred down as fine 
as possible widi a knife, or more properly 
with a plane made in the form of a cucumber 
slice. Bum a little juniper In a cask or tub 
which is perfectly sound and clean, and put 
a little leaven into the seam round the bot- 
tom, — flour and vinegar may be substituted 
for the leaven; then put in three or four 
bandfuls of cabbage, a good sprinkling of 
salt, and a tea-spoonful of caraway seed, and 
press this hard willi a wooden mallet; next 
add another layer of cabbage, with salt and 
caraway seed, as at first; and so on in the 
same manner until the cask be full, pressing 
down dicb layer firmly as you advance. A 
good deal of water will come to the top, of 
which a part may be taken off. The cask 
being full, put on the head so as to press 
upon the cablmge, and place it in a warm 
cellar to ferment; wheft it has worked well 
ibr three weeks, take off the scum which 
will have gathered on the top, and lay a 
clean cloth on the kroul; replace tlie head, 
and put two or three heavy stones upon it. 
The juice should always stand upon tJie top. 
Thus in a good cellar it will keep for years. 
When to be dressed, it is boiled for five or 
six hours in water, or stewed with a little 
gravy, and may be also substituted for a 
crust over a beefsteak pie, when cheese is 
grated over it. 

SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When 
the krout is boiled, clean a large pike, 
scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip them 
into the beaten yolk of an eg^, then into 
bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown ; 
rnb some butter upon a dish, and put into 
it a layer of krout, and some grated cheese, 
then a layer of pike, and a little sour cream ; 
then kroiit, and so on till the dish be full. 
On the top put some bits of butter, and 
some good broth or gravy ; strew crumbs 
of bread thickly over it, and bake it half 
an hour. 



SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a 
pan, half a pint of water and a quarter of 
a pound of butter; stir it till it boils, and 
mix in four table-spoonfuls of flow; stir it 
well togetlier, and add six yolks and four 
whites of eggs, two at a time; let it cool, 
and, with a dessot-spoon, drop it into boil- 
ing clarified dripping or lard. 

To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonful of 
pQundod gin^pr may be addedt 



SPARE RIB ROASTED. See P&ri. 

SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Poond 
two ounces of pepper, a quarter of an oanoe 
of mace, grate one nutmeg, and the ped of 
one lemon; mix all togetl^ in a bottle. 

SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. One 

ounce and a half of pepper, cinoamon, nut- 
meg, and ginger, half an ounce each, and 
eight cfoves; pound and mix all t(^;eCher in 
a bottle. A little of each kind of spies 
sliould be well dried, pounded, and kefit 
separately in small bottles, which should be 
labelled. 

SPINACH, TO DRESS. Pick die 
spinach with great care; strip the leaves 
from the stalks, and wash it in several wa- 
ters, till perfectly clean ; boil the spinach in 
salt and water ; drain it well ; pound it in 
a mortar, ai^d put it into a stewpan with a 
little butter and broth, and let it stew over 
a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour, tifl 
it be very dry; then add a quarter- of a 
pound of freah butter, with salt and grated 
nutmeg; work the spinach well, till it is 
thick, but take care the butter does noC 
turn to oil. Garnish with fried toasts of 
bread, which may lie cut like cock's combs, 
4ur .in any otlier form. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (1) Pick itveiy 
carefully, and wash it thoroughly two or 
three times in plenty of cold water, then pot 
it on in boiling water with a little sak; let 
it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a 
cullender, hold it under the water cock, and 
let the water run on it for a minute ; put it 
into a saucepan, beat it perfectly soooodi 
with a beater or with a wooden spoon, add 
a bit of butter, and three table-apoonftds of 
cream ; mix it well togetlier, and make iC 
hot before serving. Wlien dished, it ii 
scored in squai-es with tlie back of a knife. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (2) After 
being nicely picked and well washed, put it 
into a saucepan, with no more water than 
adheres to it ; add a little salt ; co\'er the 
pan ck)6ely, and boil it till tender, fiiequeat- 
ly shaking it ; beat it quite smooth, adding 
butter and cream, and make it quite hot. 
Spinach may be served with poached eggs, 
or fried sausages laid on it. 

When the spinadi is bitter, it is pieleri- 
ble to boil it in water. 



SPINACH TOASTS, Boil 
nach for a quarter of an hoor ; then c , 
out all the water, chop it small, and put it 
into a mortar, with tliree or four spo(Mi6ili 
of apple marmalade, the yolks of four fa^und- 
boiled, and three raw c^, two biaoiiti 



SPR 



215 



STO 



•eaked m cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; 
pomd ail these to^>etlier to a paste, put it 
into a diishy and mix with it a few dry ciir> 
raots, and three or four spoonfiils of melted 
batter. Cut some slioes of Ixneiid half an 
inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; 
toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, 
&c. over them, to the thickness of half an 
inch, Kraah esucfa over with white of egg; 
place the toasts on a baking-tin (well batter- 
ed) and bake them for halfan hour. When 
done, grate nutmeg, and sqoeeie orange*juioe 
over them, and serve. 

SPRATS, TO BAKE. Clean them; 
take off the heads; put them into a deep 
dkhf and cover them with ▼inonur and wa« 
ler, equal quantities of each. To a quart of 
liqaid, put half an ounce of whole Uack pep- 
per, a little allspice, two or three bay-leaves* 
some salty and an onion. Tie paper over 
the dish, and bake them in a cool oven, (mt 
do them over a slow fire in a water bath. 
Herrings may be done in ihb way. Both 
will keep good some weeks. 

SPRATS, STEWED. Wash and dry 
your sprats, and lay them as level as you 
can in a stewpan, and between every layer 
of sfMraAs put three ptpperoona, and as many 
al]qf>ice, with a few grains of salt; barely 
cover them with vinegar, and stew them one 
faoor over a slow fire; they must not boil: 
a fac^<Jeaf is sonoetimes added. Herrings or 
1 may be stewed the same way. 



SPRATS, BROn^ED. If you have not 
a sprat gridiron, get a piece of pointed iron 
'wire as thick as |[iackthread, and as long as 
your gridiron is broad ; run this through the 
heads of your sprats, sprinkle a little flour 
and salt over them, put your gridiron over a 
cksaoTf quick fire, turn Uiem in about a couple 
<yf minutes ; when the other side js brown, 
dravir out the wire, and seud up the fish with 
melted butter in a cup. 

O&s. — ^That sprats are ^oaoa herrings, is 
evident by their anatomy, in which th^ is 
no perceptible diflerenoe. They appear very 
noon after the lierrings are gone, and seem 
Co be the spawn just vivified. 

SPRING FRUIT— ^ Mock Qooae- 
berry Sauce for Mackerel, Spc, Make a 
anarmalade of three dozen sticks of rhubarb, 
sweetened with moist sugar; pass it through 
a hair sieve, and serve up in a 8auce4x)at.. 

SPRING FRUIT TART. Prepare 
ihobarb as above: cut it into small pieces 
into a tart-dish; sweeten with kmf-sugar 
pouoded ; cover it with a good short crust 
' »; sift a little sugar over the top, and 



bake half an hoar IB a rather hot oven; wgrm 
up cold. 

SPRING CREAM, or 3foek Goott- 
berry Fool. Prepare a inarmabde as di- 
rected for the pudding: to which add a pint 
of good thick cream ; serve up in glasses, or 
in a deep dish. If wanted in a diape, dis- 
solve two ounces of isinglass in a little water; 
strain it through a tamis, and when nearly 
cold put it to the cream ; pour it into a ielly 
mould, and when set, turn out into a dish, 
and serve up plain. 

SPRING FRUIT SHERBET. Boil 
six or eight sticks of rhubarb (quite clean) 
ten minutes in a quait of water; strain the 
liquor through a tamis into a jug, witli the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, and two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified sugar ; let it stand five 
or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 

SPRUCE BEER. See Beer. ' 

SPROUTS AND YOUNG GREENS. 
The receipt for cabbages will answer as well 
for sprouts, only they will be boiled enough 
in ^fifteen or twenty iQinnteB. 

STEAKS OR C»OPS. See Chope. 

STOCK, FOR BROWN OR WHITE 
SOUPS. Take a pound of scate, five floun- 
ders, and two pounds of eels; cut them in 
pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as 
much water as will covor them, a little mace, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, 
two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and 
salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover 
dose ; strain it ofi' for use ; if it is for brown 
soup, firy the fish brown iu butter, and then 
put it to stew. 

STOCK, FOR GRAVY SOUP OR 
GRAVY. Cut a knuckle of veal into sli- 
ces, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of ganmion of bacon ; put 
these into a stewpan, with three scraped 
carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- 
nips, two heads of celery, and two quarts 
of water. Let .the meat stew till quite ten- 
der, but it must not be brown. When thus 
prepared it will serve either for soup, or 
brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, 
it must be fijnst colored in the usual manner. 

STOMACHIC TINCTURE. Peruvian 
bark, bruised, one ounce and a half, orange- 
peel, do. one ounce, brandy, or proof spirit, 
one pint. Let these ingredients steep for 
ten days, shaking the bottle every day; let 
it remain quiet two days, and tlieu decant 
the clear liquor. Dose— a tea-spoonful in 



»TR 



216 



STO 



a wme^gfan of water, twice a day, wheo 
you feel languid, t . «. when the stomach is 
empty, about an hour before dinner, and ia 
the evening. This agreeable aromatic tonic 
is Ml ^Sective help to concoction ; and we 
are under personal obligations to it, for fre- 
quently restoring our stomach to good tern- 
per, and procuring us good appetite and ^ood 
dtgestbn. In low nervous auctions arising 
from a lan|uid' circulation, and when the 
stomach is in a state of debility from age, 
intemperance, or other causes,, this is a most 
acceptable restorative^ 

N. B. — Tea made with dried and bruised 
orange-peel, in the same way as common 
tea, and drank with milk and sugar, has 
beea taken by nei^vous and dyspeptic per- 
sons with great benefit. Sinking a bit of 
dried orange-peel about an hour hcSore din- 
ner, when the stomach is empty, is very 
gratrful and strengthening to it. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. Pot six 
ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, 
pulp it through a sieve ; add to it the juice 
of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a 
dish, lay tlie froth on a sieve, add a little 
more juice of lemon, and. when no more froth 
will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into 
glasses; and place the froth uipom it, well 
drainedr 

STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBER- 
RIES. From either of 'these fruits agree- 
able wine may be obtained, by following the 
rules given for maldng currant wine; but it 
will be found a cheaper and a better meth- 
od, to add a little sirup or juice of the fruit 
to any flavorless currant wine; when the 
fermentation b^ins to decline, currant wine 
may also be flavored with odoriferous flow- 
ers, such as cowslip, elder, or mignionette. 
The quality of roughness is communicated 
by catechu and keno, chips of oak and of 
beech, and also the sloe; a small quantity 
of these, or of the flowers, is put into the 
cask wlien the first fermentation is over, and 
as soon as the wine has acquired the desired 
flavor, it is racked and fined. The flavor- 
ing articles, such as orris-root, cloves, fin- 
ger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put into 
a muslin hag, and hung in the cask for a 
few days, during the stase of insensible fer- 
mentation, that IS, after die first fermentation 
has ceased; care being taken to taste the 
liquor frequently, so that the flavoring mat- 
ter may be withdrawn as soon as it has pi\>- 
dttoed the desired efiect. 

STRAWBERRIES, POUNDED, for 
Strawberry Cream. Take equal 
weight of sugar and of strawberries; pound 
aad silk the sugar, add it to the strawberries, 
and pooed llwai in a marble moiiar till per- 



fectly ■mooth. Put it inU> jars, and tk 
them over closely with paper. It witt keep 
good for several months. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Take 
a basket of very fine strawberries, pick, and 
crush them, and then rub them thivagh a 
sieve. WUsk the whites of eighteen ^gs 
to a firm froth, to which add a poond and a 
half of powder sugar, stir them together as 
lightly as possible; then mix them with the 
strawberries. Pour the whole into a erom»- 
iade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate 
oven;, when done, glaze it, and serve. 

STRAWBERRY TART. Pick, and 
put into a basin two quarts of the best scar- 
let strawberries, then add to them half a 
pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and half 
a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or 
three lemons; mix these well together, with- 
out breaking tlie strawberries, and- pot them 
into a pas' paste, previously baked; becaie- 
fiil to keep them very oooL 

STRING BEANS. See fV-enek Beam, 

STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. Sea- 
son a qimrter of a pound of finely^miaoed 
beef suet, and an equal qoanti^ of i 
bread, with grated nutm^, lemoD-p 
on thyme, and parsley, salt, and , , ^ 
mix it well together, and bind it'wMi a 
well-beaten yolk of an egg, wheo it may be 
used for stumog veal and fowl. 

STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR 
FOWL. Wash a quart of oysters in their 
own liquor, strain it, and pot into it the 
oysters; with a little mace, whole pepper, 
and temon-peel; when pai*boiIedy chop small 
a dozen and a half, add an equal weight of 
grated bread, twice the quantity of fine^ 
minced beef suet, the yolks of three hard- 
boited eggs, one anchovy, a little sak, pep- 
per, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and some mineed 
parsley; bind it with the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. For the sauce, boil with the 
liquor of the outers, a pint of white stoek, 
half a pint of white wine, one anchovy, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain it, and 
add a quarter of a pomid of butter roUed io 
flour, beat it up with the remainder of the 
oysters. 



STUFFING FOR A HARE. 
the.liver, and mince it; add aa equal qoa*' 
tity of grated bread, double the quantity of 
fet bacon chopped, a bit of butter the siae 
of a walnut. Season with pepper, sak, oal- 
meg, chopped lemon thyme, and parsley; 
bind with an egg beaten. « 

STUFFING FOR VEAL, ROAST 



s<ru 



217 



suo 



ToRKSTy Fowl, &o. Minoe a cparter 
of a pound of beef suet (beef marrow is bet- 
ter), the saine weight of bread crumibfi, two 
drachms of parsley leaves, a drachm and a 
half of sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, and 
the same of gnited lemon-peel and onion 
chopped as fine as possible, a little pepper 
and salt ; pound thoroughly together with the 
yolk and white of two eggs, and secure it 
m the veal -with a skewer, or sew it in with 
a bit of tliread. Make some of it into balls 
or sausages; flour them, and boil, or fry 
them, and send them up as a garnish, or in 
a side dish, with roast poultry, veal, or cut- 
lets, &C. 

N. B. — ^Tlus is about the quantity for a 
tnrkey poult: a very large turkey will take 
nearlv twice as much. To tlie above may 
be added an ounce of dressed ham ; or use 
equal parts of die above stuffing and pork 
sausage meat pounded well togeuier. 

Ofrs.— Good stuffing has always been con- 
sidered a chief thing in cookei^: it has given 
immortality to 

**Poor Roffer Fowler, wha *d a generous mind, 
Nor woula submit to have his hand con/in'd, 
But aime«l at all, — yet never nould excel 
In any thing but stuffing of hia veal." 

STUFFING FOR HARE. Two oun- 
ces of beef suet chopped fine ; three ounces 
of fine bread ci-umbs ; parsley, a draciim ; 
esdiulot, half a drachm ; a drachm of mar- 
joram, lemon tlivn^e, or winter savory; a 
dradim of grated lemon-peel, and the same 
of pepper and salt: mix these with the white 
and yolk of an ^g\ do not make it thin — 
it must be of cohesive consistence : if your 
stuffing is not stiff enough, it will he good 
for nothing: put it in the hare, and sew it 
up. If the liver is quitie sound, you may 
parboil it, and minoe it very fine, aud add 
it to the above. 

STURGEON, BAKED. Oean, and 
take the skin from a small sturgeon ; split it 
along the belly, without separating it. Lay 
it in a brge baking dish, season it with 
sah, pepper, pounded sweet herbs ; moisten 
with oil, lemon-juice, and a bottle of white 
wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequent- 
ly; make it a nice color, and serve it with 
Its own gravy. 

STURGEON, FRESH, TO BROIL. 
Cut it into cutlets ; rub them with the yolk 
i)i an egg beat up; strew them over with 
•oroe parsley, minced very fine, and mixed 
with grated bread crumbs, pepper, and salt ; 
put them into pieces of white paper buttered, 
and broil them gently. Sauces;— oyster, 
melted butter, and anchovy. 

STURGEON, FRESH. The best mode 
19 



of dressing this, is to have it cut in thin 
slices like veal cutlets, and broiled, and rob- 
bed over with a bit of butter and a little 
pepper, and served very hot, and eaten with 
a squeeie of lemon-juice. Great care, how* 
ever, must be taken to cut ofi* the skin b<y 
fore it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, if 
burned, imparts a disgusting flavor to the 
fish. The flesh is very fine, and comes 
nearer to veal, perliaps, than even turtle. 
Sturgeon is frequently plentiful and reason- 
able in the London shops. We prefer this 
mode of di-essing it to the more savory one 
of stewing it in rich gravy, like caip, &c. 
which overpowers the peculiar flavor (^ the 
fish. 

STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a 
large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small 
one, clean and skin it properly ; lard it with 
eel and anchovies, and marinade it in a 
white wine marinade. Fasten it to the 
spit, and roast it, basting frequently with 
the marinade strained. Let the fish be a 
nice color, aud serve with a pepper sauce. 

SUET TO KEEP FOR A TWELVE- 
MONTH. Chpose tlie firmest part, and 
pick it free fi^m skin and veins. Put it 
into a saucepan, and set it at some distince 
fi'om the fire, in order that die suet may 
melt without f^ing, or it will taste disagree- 
able. When it is melted, pour it into a pan 
of cold water. When it has caked quite 
hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, 
and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a 
dry, but not in a hot place. Wlien you wish 
to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a 
nice crust, eitlier widi or without butter. 

SUET MILK. Cut into very small 
shavings one ounce of fresh beef suet; dis- 
solve it slowly over die fire in one pint of 
milk, together with a bit of lemon-peel and 
cinnamon ; sweeten witli pounded loaf sugar. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. This batter 
should l)e made the same as for suet pud- 
ding, (second receipt), but much thicker, let 
your cloUi be wetted, shake it all over with 
flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, 
as much as it will hold, two or thi-ee spoon- 
fuls of batter. Or you may make the batter 
as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well butter- 
ed ; tie them in clodis, and boil an hour. 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. To every 
three pounds of loaf migar, allow the beaten 
white of one egg, and a pint and a half of 
water ; break the sugar small, put it into a 
nicely-cleaned brass pan, and pour the water 
over it; let it stand sometime before it be 
put upon the fire; then add tlie beaten whites 
of the eggs ; stir it till the sugar be entirely 



SWE 



218 



SWE 



dMBolved, and when it boils up, pour in a 
tfuarter of a pint of cold water ; let it boil 
up a second time; take it off the fire and let 
it settle for fifteen minutes; carefnily take 
off all the scum ; put it on the fire, and boil 
it till sufiiciently thick, or if required, till 
candy high; in order to ascertain which, 
drop a little from a spoon into a small jar 
of cold water, and if it become quite hard, 
it is then sufficiently done ; or dip the ihevil 
into tlie sugar, plunge it into cold water, 
draw off the sugar which adheres to the 
■tick, and if it be hard and snaps, the fruit 
to be presci-ved must be instantly put in and 



SUGAR ORNAMENTS. 
amel. 



See Car- 



SUGAR RUFFS. A poiind of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with the 
whites of three e^, and flavored with oil 
of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flower wa- 
ter, and baked in the same way as tlie 
meringues, 8er\'ed in a napkin, or used to 
gamisli dishes of preserves. 

SUGAR, TO BOIL. To every pound 
of sugar allow half a pint of water ; stir it 
over the fire till the sugar be entirely diss«ilv- 
ed ; when it first lx)i1s up, pour in a tittle 
cold water, and when it lx)ils a second time, 
fake it oflfthe fire; let it settle ten minutes, 
carefully scum it, and boil it for half an hour 
or a little longer,^ and then put in the fruit. 

SWEETBREADS, Italian Atte- 
LBTS. Blanch some nice sweetbreads, and 
■tew them in a well-seasoned gravy, made 
of meat and vegetables; when cokl,. cut 
them into pieces of nearly an inch square, 
put them into a sauce d'attelets, and let 
them coot. With silver skewers, skewer 
the sweetbreads, and a bit of ready-dressed 
calPs udder alternately; make tliem all as 
much as possible of an equal size, and of a 
square form. Moisten them with the sauce, 
and cover them with grated bread, then 
dip tliem into four well beaten eggs, strew 
over them some more grated bread, and 
level it with a knife ; fiy tliem of a fine 
brown, and serve witli an Italian sauce, 
white or brown. 

If tlie attelets are ready before they are 
required to be firied, strew grated bread 
over the cover of a stewpan, and lay them 
apon it. 

SWEETBREAD, TO BOIL. Parboil 
it, rob it with butter, and broil it over a 
■low fire, tura it frequently, and baste it 
BOW and then, by putting it upon a plate 
kept warm by the fire wiUi batter in it. 



SWEETBREADS a la Dauphirx. 
If for a round dish, take four large and fim 
sweetbreads. If for a long dish, three wilt 
iiiiffice. Pare off the fat and sinews, and 
blanch them in warm water, parboil them, 
and when cold, lard tliem. Rub a stew- 
pan with fresh butter, and put into it a few 
sliced carrots and onions, then a layer of 
slices of fiit bacon, place the sweetbreads 
upon' the bacon, sprinkle a little sak over 
tliem, and stew them with a great deal of 
fire on the top, and a very slow one be- 
neath ; when tliey are nicely browned, cover 
them with a piece of buttered papa*, cut 
round, and lessen the fir^ upon the tnp. 
Tliey will require to stew for three-qirarten 
of an hour, then drain and put them into a 
pan with some glaze, and the bacon under- 
neath. Leave them in the glaze till dinner 
time. 

SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED. 

Parboil them, and let them get cold; dieir 
cut them in pieces, about three-quarters of aH 
inch thick; dip them in the yolk of ane^, 
then in fine bread crumbs (some add spice, 
lemon- peel, and sweet herbs); put some 
clean dripping into a frying-pan: when it 
boils, frat in the sweetbreads, and fiy than 
a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsl^ 
and for sauce, mushroom ketchup and melted 
butteu, or anchovy sauce^ or bacoo or ham. 

SWEETBREADS, SMALL OASES 

OF Scollops of. Blanch and parboil 
some sweetbreads, cut them into small scol- 
lops. Then chop separately, and finely, half 
a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley, and 
four or five shallots, add a tittle fat bacon 
rasped, and a piece of fresh butter; season 
the scollops with pepper, salt, and a little 
mace, stew it all together over a stow fire; 
when done, drain off the &t, phice the scol- 
lops in small paper cases, which have been 
fried in olive oil, cover them with plenty of 
finely-chopped herbs, and strew over then 
fried bread crumbs ; lay the paper cases for 
a moment into the oven, and before serving, 
pour into each a little ridi gravy, and a littfe 
lemon-juice. 

SWEET HERBS. See Nerb$. 

SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Ojt 

small anv sort of candied fi^lit, and heat it 
with a bit of fresh butter, some good milk, 
and a little grated lemon-peel; when quito 
hot, stir in enough of flour to make it mtt> a 
stiff paste, take it off the fire, and work in 
eight, or ten eggs, two at a time; wben 
qold, form the fritters, and fi-y, and serve 
diem with pounded loaf sugar strewed oter 



STL 



219 



TAR 



SYLLABUBS. Take the juice of a 
large lemon, the pee) (pared very thin), a 
glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a 
quarter of a pound of powder-«ngar ; put 
these ingp^ients into a pan, and leave Uieui ; 
the next day, add a pint of thick cream, and 
the whites of two eggs; whip the whole 
well, and pour the syllabub into glasses. 
They are the better for keeping a day or 
two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite 
so good as the above, raisin or mountain 
wine will do as well as brandy. 

SYLLABUB, Somersetshire. Put 
a pint of Port, and a pint of Sherry, or 
any other white wine, into a large bowl, 
sweeten it according to taste ; milk tlie bowl 
fiitl; in about twenty minutes' time, cover 
it tolerably high with clouted cream; grate 
nutmeg over it ; add pounded cinnamon, and 
nonpareils. 

SYLLABUB, Staffordshire. Put 
a pint of cider, a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
DUtineg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or 
pour, warm milk from a large tea-pot some 
tieight into it. 

SYLLABUB. (1) One pound of ratafia 
cakes pounded and steeped in two bottles 
of Port wine, one of olatp', and one of 
brandy, the grated peel and juice of two 
lemons, one large nutmeg 'grated, and two 
ounces of sweet almonds, blanclied and 
pcNinded with a little rose-water, and pound- 
ed sugar sufficient to make it sweet — Put 
all iheae ingredients, well mixed, into a 
lau'ge China bowl, or bowls of an equal size. 
and let the milk of a good cow be milked 
optm them; add a little rich cream and sift- 
ed loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. 
It may be served out into glasses with a silver 
ladle. 

SYLLABUB. (2) A large glass of Madei- 
ra, one of rich sweet wine, and half a one of 
ratafia, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a large lemon, the juice 
of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir 
it all together till the sugar be dissolved, and 
add a quart of rich cream; whisk it well; 
lay some macaroons into the bottom of a 
dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon 
it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is 
better the third and fourth than when first 
made. 

SYLLABUB, SOLID. A quarter of a 
pint of mountain, the same of white wine, 
tlie grated peel of two, and juice of one 
lemon ; sweeten, and add it to a quart of 
rich cream ; whisK it for an hour, and put it 
into glasses. It will keep a week in cold 
w«atlier. 



SYLLABLE, CX)MMOIV. Halfapmt 
of currant, the same of Port or white wine, 
half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a 
lemon ; sweeten well with pounded loaf or 
good brown sugar, and mix it together in a 
China bowl, and when the su^r dissolves, 
milk upon it three or four pmts of milk. 
Serve it when cold. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (t) Mix ti>. 

gether half a glass of brandy, a little lemon- 
juice, and grated peel, with sugar enough to 
sweeten the wliole; stir it into a pint of 
thick cream, and add tlie well-beaten whites 
of six eggs ; whisk it for an hour, and pot 
the froth, as it ilses, upon a sieve U> dram; 
put a little Port and sweet wine into glasses, 
and fill them up with the ftoth. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (2) Mix with 
a pint of cream, half a pint of sweet wine, 
a glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon, grat- 
ed nutmeg, six ounces of sifted loaf sugar: 
nearly fill the custard-glasses with tlie mix- 
ture, and lay on with a spoon some of the 
whip. 



T. 

TAMIS, a coarse kind of cloth for strain- 
ing soups and gravies. 

TARTE, ROYAL BERLIN. Take 

half a pound of sweet almonds, and having 
blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a 
marble mortar to a very fine paste, add to it 
a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fi-esh 
buUer, and the grated rind of two lemons, 
beat it well as each ingredient is put in; 
lay alx)ut sixteen or eighteen ounces of sift- 
ed flour on tlie slab, place the almond paste 
on it, and knead them well together. Di- 
vide this into several pieces, which roll to 
the eighth of an inch in thickness ; from 
these cut from twelve to sixteen circular 
layers, the largest about seven inches in 
diameter, die rest, each somewhat smaller 
than the other ; wlien all are cut, place them 
on white paper on tins, and bake tliem in a 
moderate oven to a clear brown, then take 
tbem out, and let them cool. As soon as 
cold, place the largest piece on a China 
dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay fiat, and 
spread over it equally some preserved fruit; 
cover this with the second sized layer, on 
which also spread prcsei'ved fruit; tlien a 
third layer, and so on until all the paste is 
used, taking care to put each layer in its 
proper order, so that the whole may form a 
cone, and that between every one roust be 
a different kind of preserve; when done, 
glaze, and ornament it as follows: cut some 



TARTS 



220 



TARTS 



candied lemon, and orange-peel into the 
fi>nn of leaves, which arrange in garlands 
round the tart, putting here and there a 
small preserved fruit ; wlien done, replace it 
in the oven for two or three minutes to dry, 
and then serve. 

TARTLETS. (1) Butter some small 
tartlet pans; line diem with a nice thin 
puff paste, mark it neatly round the edges, 
bake them ; when they are cold, fill them 
widi custard, preserve, or any sweetmeat 
yon thipk proper, and if you choose, pour 
custard over. 

TARTLETS. (2) Roll out the paste 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay 
upon it the top pait of the patty-pan; cut it 
round with the paste cutter. Rub die patty- 
pans with a little butter, and line tliem with 
the paste, and place in the middle a little bit of 
bread, which take out when they are baked. 
They may be filled with any preserved fruit, 
and a star or leaf of paste placed on the top. 
To make ornaments of paste, roll it quite 
thin, and as even as possible; cut it with 
tin stars, leaves, or any oUier form, and 
bake them a light t»x>wn color, upon fl^ 
tins dusted with flour. 

TART, APPLE, CREAMED. Use 
green codlings, in preference to any otiier 
apple, and proceed as in the last receipt. 
When the pie is done, cut out die whole of 
the centre, leaving the edges; when cold, 
pour on the apple some rich boiled custard, 
and place round it some small leaves of puff 
paste of a light color. 

TART, CHERRY. The cherries may 
be stoned, and a few red currants added; 
sweeten with loaf or brown sugar, and put 
into the bottom of the dish a small tea-cup ; 
cover it with paste. 

TART, CRANBERRY. Take cran- 
berries, pick and wash them in several wa- 
ters, put them into a dish, with the juice of 
half a lemon, a quarter of a pound of moist 
or pounded loaf sugar, to a quart of cran- 
berries. Cover it with puff or tart paste 
and bake it tliree-quarters of an hour ; if 
tart paste is used, draw it from ttie oven 
five minutes before it is done, and ice it, re- 
turn it to the oven, and send it to table 
cold. 

TART, CURRANT. To a quart of 
red currants add one pint of red raspber- 
ries, strawberries, or cherries; sweeten them 
well with brown sugar; before putting in 
the fniit, line the side of the dish wiUi tart 
paste, place in it a small tea-cup, put in the 
finiit, and cover it wiUi paste. 



Four ounces of brown sogar are ffaeni 
1y allowed to a quart of fruit. 

TART OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 
Cover a flat dish, or tourte pan, with tart 
paste, about an eighth of an inch thick; roll 
ont puff paste, half an inch thick, and cut it 
out in strips an inch wide; wet the tart 
paste,^ and kiy it neatly round the pan by 
way of a rim ; fill the centre with jam or 
mannalade of any kind, ornament it with 
small leaves of pufi* paste, bake it half an 
hour, and send it to table cold. 

The above may be filled before the puff 
paste is laid on, neady strung with paste, 
and the rim put over after. 

The most ^neral way of sending tourta 
to table, 19 with a croquante of paste, or a 
caramel of spun sugar put over afier it ii 
baked. ^ ^ ^ 

TARTS, PRESERVED FRUIT. Rob 

over with a little butter an oval didi, or tin 
shape, line it with pasfe, and fill it with aar 
sort of preserved fruit. Roll out a bit of 
paste thin, and, with a paste cutter, cat it 
into narrow strips; brush vritb water (he 
rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste 
across and across, and then put round a 
border of pncto, and mapk it with the paste 
cutter. 

TARTS, RIPE FRUIT. Gooseberries, 
damsons, moi-elk> cherries, currants mixed 
with raspberries, plums, green gages, while 
plums, &c. should be quite fresh picked, aiid 
washed: lay tliem in the disli with the ceDtre 
highest, and about a qnaiter of a pound of 
moist or loaf sugar pounded to a quart nf 
fruit (but if quite ripe they will not reqawe 
so much) ; add a little water ; rub the ed^ 
of the dish with yolk of e^; cover it widi 
tart paste, about half an inch thick; pn» 
your thumb round the rim, and ck)6e it well; 
pare it round widi a knife ; ntake a hole ia 
the sides below the rim ; hake it in a mode* 
raie-heated oven ; and ten minutes befin* it 
is done, take it out and ice it, and retura it 
to the oven to dry. 

TART, RHUBARB. Strip off Ur peel, 
and if the rhubarb is larse, cut it into two 
or three strips, and then into bits about aa 
inch long; sweeten well with brown nigar, 
and cover the diali with 



TART PASTE, FOR FAMILY PIES. 
Rub in with the hand half a pound of butter 
into one pound and a quarter of flour, vah* 
with hall a pint of water, and knead it weiL 

TART PASTE, Sweet, or Shoet 
AND Crisped. To ohb ponnd and a qnar- 
ter of fine dour add ten ounces of fresh boltffs 



revr 



S31 



Tlil 



die yolka of tvro eggs beaten, and three oon- 
oes of sifted loaf sugar ; mix up together with 
half a pint of new milk, and knead it well. 
N. B.— This cruBt is frequently iced. 

TEA CREAM. Infine an ovnoe of tlie 
best green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, 
tiuuner it five minutes, dien strain it through 
a tammy, pressing the leaves well. Boil a 
pint of rich cream, add to it the yoHcs of four 
eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity 
of clarified sugar ; pour this whilst hot to the 
milk, stir them together well ; pat in as much 
clarified isinglass as will set it, and poor the 
cream into the mould, or glasses; place them 
on ioe ; when peHectly cold, torn it out of 
the OMHild, or serve in the glasses. 

TEAL, ROASTED. Shn>d a little 
leRKHi-peel, and mix it with a bit of buttn*, 
salt, pepper, and lenHm-juice; stuff your 
birds with this, cover them firet with slices 
vf lemon, tlien bacon, and lastly, buttered 
paper sprinkled with salt; tie them up se- 
curely, fasten them to the s})it, and roast 
them. When done, let the Uitter run out, 
remove the wrappers, and disli them. Sen'e 
them with a sauce made as follows: put into 
a saucepan three ladlefuls of eapagnoU, a 
spoonful cf conaotnme, a bit of glaze, the 
rind of a quarter of a lemrni, and a little pep- 
per ; give them a boil up tc^ther, and strain 
it over the teal. 

TENCH. They are a fine-flavored fresh 
water fisb ; when good, the eves are bright, 
the body stiff, and the outside dree from slime ; 
tench should be dressed as soon as cauglit. 

TENCH, FRIED. Take a coupks of 
large tench, scale and cleanse them as for 
broiling. Cut off the fins, split them down 
the back, take out the bones; sprinkle them 
with flour and salt ; squeeze a little lemon- 
juice over, and fry them in batter, and serve 
them dry. 

TENCH, ROASTED. Take off scales, 
heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and dry 
them well, then put into each a little butter, 
mixed wiui sweet herbs; lay them for about 
five minutes in melted butter, with salt, pep- 
per, and sweet lierfas; wrap each fish in pa- 
per, fastim them to a spit, and roast them. 

TEWAHDIDDLE. A pint of table 
beer (or ale, if you intend it fijr a supplement 
to your ** night cap"), a table-spoonful of 
brandy, and a tea-spoonfui of brown sugar, 
or clarified sirup ; a little grated nutmeg or 
ginger may be added, and a roll of very Uiin- 
eat lemon-peel. 

Ofrs. — Befbr^ oaf readers make any re- 
loarkii on this composition, we beg of them 



to taste it: if the materials are good, and 
their palate vibrates in unison with our own, 
they will find it one of the pleasantest bever* 
ages they ever put to their lips ; and, aa Lord 
Ruthven says, ** this m a right gossip's cup 
that far exceeds all the ale that ever Mother 
Bunch made in lier life-time." 

THICKENING. Ckirified batter is best 
lor this purpose ; but if you have none ready, 
put some fresh butter into a stewpan over a 
slow, clear fire; when it is melt^, add fine 
flour sufficient to make it the thickness c( 
paste; stir it well together with a wooden 
spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes, till it is 
quite smooth, and the color of a guinea: thii> 
must be done very gradually and patiently; 
if you put it over too fierce a fire to hurr>' it. 
it will become bitter and empvreumatic: poui 
it into an eartlien pan, and keep it for use. 
It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and 
longer in winter. 

A large spoonful will generally be enoc^ 
to thicken a quart of gravy. 

06«.-~This, in the French kitclien, is 
called roux. Be particularly attentive in 
making it; if it gets any burnt smell ot 
taste. It will spoil every thing it is put into. 
When cold, it shoukl Ue thick enough to cut 
out with a knife, like a solid paste. 

It is a very essential article in tlie kitchen, 
and is the basis of consistency in most made* 
dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts; if the 
gravies, &c. are too thin, add this thicken- 
ing, more or less, according to the consistence 
you would wish them to have. 

Mem. — In making thickening, the le» 
batter, and the more flour you use, tlie Ijet- 
ter; they must be thoroughly worked to- 
getlier, and the broth, or soup, &c. you pni 
them to, added t^ degreeu: take especia: 
care to incorporate them well together, or 
your sauces, &c. will taste floury, and lia%e 
a disgusting, gr<msy appearance: dierefore. 
after yon have thickenecl your sauce, add to 
it some broth, or warm water, in tlie pro- 
portion of two table-spoonfuls to a pint, and 
set it by the ^ide of the fire, to raise any fiit, 
&c. that is not thoroughly incorporated with 
the gravy, which you must carefiill^ remove 
as it comes to the top. This is called 
cleansing, or finishing the sauce. 

Half an ounce of butter, and a table-spoon- 
fill of flour, are about the proportion for a 
pint of sauce to make it as thick as cream. 

N. B. — ^The fat skimmings off the top 
of the broth-pot are sometimes substituted 
for butler; some cooks merely thicken their 
soups and sauces with flour. 

TIMBALE. Put a pound of floor oa 
the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, 
infto which pour a little water, tliree or four 
spoonfuls of oil, a quarter of a pound of but* 



TOA 



222 



TOM 



ter, the yolks of two eggtf and a pinch of ; 
salt; knead these ingnedienn thorousbly Into 
the flour, until it becomes a tolerably firm 
paste ; roll it out to nearly half an inch in 
thicknera, line one large, or several small 
plain round moulds, with this paste ; let the 
moulds be well buttered, and the paste come 
about half an inch above tlie top of the mould ; 
fill your Umbaie with any fwce, or ragout, 
you think proper, cover it with a layer of 
paste, pretising the edges together ; bake it, 
and when done, turn «iie Umbale on a dish, 
make a hole, pour in some rich sauce or 
pavy, and serve. 

TINCTURE OF ALLSPICE. Of 
allspice bruised, tliree ounces, apothecaries' 
weight ; brandy, a quart. Let it steep a 
Ibrtuiglit, occasionally shaking it up; then 
pour off the clear liquor : it is a most grateful 
addition in all cases where allspice is used, 
for making a bishop, or to mulkid wtne ex- 
tempore, or in gravies, &c. or to flavor and 
i potted 



TIPSY CAKE. Pour over a sponge 
oake, made in tiie form of n |)orcupine, as 
much white wine as it will almorb, and stick 
it all over with blanchctd sweet almonds, cut 
like straws ; or pour wine in the same man- 
ner over a thick slice of sponge cake, cover 
the to|) of it with pi-eserv^d strawberries or 
raspberries, and stij^k cut almonds all round it. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. See Cheeee. 

TOAST, WITH BUTTER. Spread 
butter ovor some slices of fried bread ; lay 
on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted 
butler, and serve. 

TOASTS* GENOA. Lard a French 
roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham ; 
cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin 
■lice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry 
them ; drain, and serve with raeigoU, 

TOASTS, GRENADA. Cut eome fat 
and lean bacon into dice, give them a few 
turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, 
shallots, pepper, sah, and the yolks of three 
eggs; stir it frequently, till it forms a kind 
of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, 
cut of an eqiud thkkneas, and fry them. 

TOASTS, ITALUN. Cut some slices 
of bread, about half an inch in thickness, 
ir^ them in sweet oil, let it be di^, and 
crisp, kiy them on a dish, and spread over 
them any light good farce you may think 
r; pour over them an appropriate 



r; pour 
and sen 



TOi^T AND WATER. Para the 



crust off a thin slice of stale bread, tovl 
it brown upon both sides, doing it eonattif 
and slowly, that it may harden without loeiiijl 
burnt; put it into & jug, and pour opos it 
boiling water; cover the jog with a siinoer, 
and set it in a cool place. 

TOASTS, SPANISH. Roll out some 
almond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it 
into pieces, about two inches square, pica 
them down with a scjuare piece of wood, t 
little smaller than the paste, which will leatg 
the edees higlier tlian the rest; bake theii, 
and when cold, pour in any prepared craia 
you please, as higli as the burden; ice, aid 
coUm* tiiem with a t^alamaIMier• 

TOMATA SAUCE. Bake six tomsiM 
in an oven till quite soft; with a tea-flpam 
take out the pulp, add salt, cayenne, asd 
vinegar, till of the consistence of thick creauL 

TOMATA SOUP. Wash, scrape, and 
cut small the red part of three large cairoti* 
three heads of celeiy, four large onions, and 
two large turnips, put them into a saucefNis, 
with a table-spooniiil of butter, and ball' a 
pound oT lean new ham ; let tliem stew verf 
gently fur an hour, then add three quarts of 
iMTown gravy soup, and some whole bfcidi 
. pepper, with eight or ten ripe toroatas ; M 
It boil an hour and a half, and pulp it throi^ 
a sieve ; serve itwithfi'ied bread cut in dioa^ 

TOMATA SAUCE, FRENCH. Oit 

toi or a doxen tomatas into quarters, and 
put them into a saucepan, with four on- 
ions sliced, a Uttle parsley, thvme, one doie, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter; set the 
saucepan on the fire, stirring occasioaallyftr 
thiee-quarters of an hour; atraio thecmin 
through a horBe4iair sieve, and serve wiik 
the directed articles. 

TOMATA SAUCE, ITALIAN. Take 
five or six onions, slice, and pot them inlD 
a saucepan, with a little thyme, bay-leaf, 
twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of batter, 
salt, half a doxen allspice, a little India «^ 
fron, and a glass of stock; set them on An 
fire, taking care to stir it fi^eqiieoily, as it a 
apt to 8ti<» ; when ^ou perceive the auoea 
tolerably tliick, stram it like a puree* 

TO'ATA KETCHUP. (1) Taketrmv 
tas when folly ripe, bake them in a jar till 
tender, strain them, and rub ttmn thrw^ • 
sieve. To every pound of juice, add a \Mk 
of Qiili vino^ar, an ounce of shalk>lB, half an 
ounce of garlic, both slioed, a quarter of an 
ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounoe af 
white pepper, finely po%vdered; boil tlw 
whole till every ingredient is soft, nib it 
again throi^ the sieve* To < 



TOM 



sds 



TON 



mdA the juice of three kaaom'; boil it anm 
to the Qon8i8leiK:e of cream ; when cold, bot- 
tle it, put a small qiitntity of sweet oil on 
each, tie bladdere over, and keep it in a dry 
place. 

TOMATA KETCHUP. (2) Gather a 
peck of tomatas, pick out the stems, and 
waefa ihem; pet then on the fire without 
^vater ; sprinkle on a few spoonfiils of salt ; 
let them boil steadily an hour, stirring them 
frequently ; sU-ain them through a colander 
and then through a sieve ; put the liquid en 
the fire with half a pint of chopped onions, 
«ighth of an oonoe of mace broke into small 
pieces, and if notsuflicientlysBlt,adda little 
more; one table-epooi^ of whole black 
pepper ; boil all U^ther until jfist enough 
te fill two bottles; cork it tight. 

[The seasoning may be varied to-snit the 
taste. Allspice insl*«d of maee — common 
red pefner instead of black pepper,-and less 
chopped onion.] 

TOMATO KETCHUP. (8) One gal- 
lon skinned tomatas, four table-spoons of 
salt, four do. black pepper, two do. allspice, 
«i^ pods red pepper, ei^t tablO'^poons of 
mustard seed, l^bese articles to be bruised 
fine and simmered sfewlv in a pint of vinegar 
three hours; then strained through a Iraiir 
sieve. To be stewed down to hatt a galk>n 
of ketdmi^ 

TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
BERVING. (1) A sufficient quantity of salt 
Is dissolved in spring or river water to make 
it atroop^ enou^ to bear an ^[g-; select per- 
Ibctly ripe tomatas, and place thiem well and 
without pressing them, in a stone or glaaened 
earthen not, with a deep plate in sodi a 
manner that it presses upon the fivit, and by 
this simple process toaalas may be preserved 
more than a year without attention. Before 
•cooking them they shoukl be soaked in fresh 
^r several houn. 



TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (2) Gather them carefully 
without bruising; put them in a stone jar, 
«nd pour in strong iMrine, to the top— ^tting 
on a light weight to keep them' gently preesed 
down below the sur&oe of the brine. Soak 
them in fresh, water and cook them in the 
osual way, seasoning to suit die taste, as 
when fiWh fimn the vine. 

TOMATA MARMALADE. Gadier 
fiiU-grown tomatas while quite green ; take 
out Ihe stems and stew them tdl soft; rub 
them through a sieve; put the pulp on the 
fire, seasoned highly with pepper, salt and 
pewdered cloves ; add some garlic, and stew 
«U togedier tiU thick. It keeps well, and is 



excellent for seasoning gravies. Besides di* 
numerous modes of preparing diis delici«N« 
vegetable for the table, it may be stewt^l, 
after being peeled, with sugar, like cranber- 
ries and guosebeiTies, producing a tart equal 
to either of thoee fniits. Tomattu make 
good pickles, pickled green ; to peel thnn, 
pour boiling water on them, when the skin 
will come off easity. 



TONGUE. (1) A tongue which has 
not been dried wiH require very little so4ii- 
ing, but if dried, it shoukl be soaked m 
watM* for three or four hours; then pal N 
into ookl water, and let it boil gently iitt 



TONGUE. (2) A tongoe is so hard, 
whether piepared by drying or pickling, tliat 
it requires much more cooking than a haiu; 
nothing of its weight takes so long to dress 
it properly. 

A tongue that has been salted and dried 
shoukl be put to soak (if it is old and very 
hard, 24 hours before it is wanted) ia plen- 
ty of water ; a gi'een one ftesh from the pie- 
kle requires soaking only a few hours: paC 
your tongue into pfenty of cold vrater; let 
It be an hour gradually warming; and give 
it from three and a half to four hours* very 
slow simmering, according to the siae, fco. 

Obs* — When you choMe a tongue, en- 
deavor to learn how long it has been dried 
or pickled, pick out the plumpest, and that 
which has flie smoothest skin, which de- 
notes its being young and tender. 

The roots, &c. make an excellent relish 
potted, or pe«s soup. 

TONG'IE, TO STEW. Wash it very 
clean, and rub it well with common salt and 
a little saltpetre; let it lie two or three days, 
and then boil it till the skin wiU pull off. 
Put it into a saucepan, with part or the li- 
quor it has been boiled in, and a pint of 
goud stock. Season with black and Ja- 
maica pepper, and two or three pounded 
cloves; add a gbss of white wine and a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketrhqp, and 
one of lemon pickle; thnken the sance with 
butter rolled in flour, and pour it over the 
tongue. 

TONGUE, PldO^ED, GLAZED. 

Boil a hirge tongue till it be tender, skio 
and glaze it, and serve it widi mashed tur- 
nips on one side, and mashed carrots, or 
carrots and spinach on the other. 

TONGUE, POTTEa «m Ham, 

TONGUES, TO SALT. Sak two 
tongues, and turn them every dciy for fonr or 
five days; then rub dieai with two oaacss 



TBI 



334 



TRI 



I sak, one of brown nigar, and faiilf 
an ounce of saltpetre ; torn them daily, and 
in a fortnight they may be used. 

The best sort of vewel for salting them 
in is an earthen-ware pan, as wide at top 
88 bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it 
long-ways. 

TRIFLE. (1) Add to a pint of rich 
cream a tea-cupful of white wine, sweeten it 
with pounded loaf sugary whisk it well, and 
as die froth rises lay it upon a sieve placed 
over a deep dish; as it drains, pour the 
cream into the pan in which it is whisked 
till all is done ; dip some sponge biscuit, rata- 
fia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine 
and a little lirandy; pour over them a rich 
boiled custard, an<l when quite cold, lay on 
the whrpt cream, piled as high as possible. 
Colored comfits may be strewed over the 
lop. 

TRIFLE. (2) Mix three table-spoon- 
fob of white wine, and one of sugar, with a 
pint and a lialf of thick cream ; whisk it, 
and take off as much froth as will heap upon 
the dish, into which lay some pieces of 
sponge cake, or some sponge biscuit, soaked 
with sweet wine, and covei^ with jn-eserv- 
ed strawberries, or any other fruit; pile the 
froth upon this, and pour the remainder of 
the cream into the bottom of the dish ; gar- 
nish with flowers. 

TRIFLE. (8) Cover the bottom of 
the dish with Naples biscuits^and maca- 
rocMis, broke in halves, wet with brandy and 
white wine, poured over them ; cover them 
with patches of raspberi^ jam ; fill the dish 
willi a good custard, then whip n\, a sylla- 
bub, drain the froth on a sieve; put it on 
the custard, and strew comfits over all. 

TRIPE. Take care to have firesh tripe ; 
cleanse it well from the fitt, and cut it into 
pieces about two inches broad and four long ; 
put it into a stewpan, luid cover it with 
milk and water, and let it boil gently till it 
is tender. 

If the tripe has been prepared as it usual- 
ly is at the ti'ipe siiops, it will be enough in 
about an hour, (this depends upon liow king 
it has been previously boiled at the tripe 
shop) ; if entirely nndressed, it will require 
two or three hours, according to the age 
and quality of it. 

Make some onion sauce in the same man- 
ner as y(Hi do for rabbiiA, or boil (slowly by 
themselves) some Spanish or the whitest 
common onions y<»u can get ; peel them be- 
fore ycHi boil tliein ; when they are tender, 
which a mif idling-sized onion will be in 
about three-quaiters of an hour, drain them 
in a liair sieve, take off the top skins till 



they look nice and white, and put thHB 
with the tripe into a tareen or sonp-diih, 
and take off the fiit if any floats on die 
surface. 

Oba. — Rashers of bacmi, or fried sM- 
sa^es are a very good accompaniment to 
boiled tripe, cow-heels or calf's ieet, we 
Kelly's sauce or parsley and butter, or ca- 
per sauce, with a little vin^[ar and mas- 
tard added to them, or salad mixture. 

Tripe hokls the same rank among solids, 
tliat water gruel does among soups, and the 
former is desirable at dinner, when ^ lat- 
ter ia wekxHoe at supper. 

TRIPE, TO FRY. Cot k into bits 
three or four inches square ; make a hatter 
thicker than for {Mincakes, of diree eggs 
beaten up with flour and milk, a little salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg; dip in the tripe, and 
ifiy it in butter, or firesh dripping, of a ligfct 
brown cobr. Serve k garnished with par*' 
ley. Sauce; — melted butter with lemon 
pickle in it. 

TRIPE PIE. Lay nito the bottom of 
a dish some thinly-sliced cold or raw han, 
then put in a hyer of tripe with the jeHr 
adhering to it, season with pepper and alt, 
and add a bit of butter; fill the dish in thii 
manner, and put in a few tahie-spooi^li 
of brown stock; cover the dish with puff 
paste. A beefsteak may be substitoted fat 
the ham, laid into the bottom, and the diaii 
filled up with tripe. 

TRIPE, TO BOIL. Clean k extreiw 
ly well, and take off tlie &t; let k Tie a 
night in salt-and-wator, again wash it wtAf 
and let it lie in milk-and-water fw the same 
lengtli of time ; then cut it into small pieoeB, 
roll and tie tliem with thread ; pot dwm, 
with a clean-washed marrow-bone, into a 
linen hag; tie it closely, and put it into a 
stewpan that has a cover to fit quite close- 
ly, fill it up witli water, and let it boil 
gently for six hours. Take the tripe out 
of the bag, pot it into a jar, and pour over 
it the liquor in which it was boiled. When 
to be dressed, boil some wliole small ooioni 
in a pait of the liquor, add a little salt, thea 
put in the tripe and heat if ihorouglily. 

Or it may be fried in butler fricasased, » 
stewed in a brown saace. 

Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe 
may be put, with some salt and whole pep- 
per, into a stone-ware jar, which must have 
a piece of linen tied over H, and a plaie kid 
upon the top. The pot shoukl aiwa}i8 he 
kept foil of boiling water, takii^ care dMt 
it do not boil into the jar. 

TRIPE, TO ROAST. Cot the iripe 
into two obkmg pieces, make a fbneoMat 



TKO 



235 



TUN 



of bread enimhs mid chopped parak^, iea- 
toned with pepper and aah; bind it with 
the yolks of two eggs ; spread it upon the 
fm side of the tripe, and lay on the other 
&t side; then roil it very tightly, and tie it 
witli packthresd. Roast, and biiiste it with 
imtter: it will talie one hoar, or one hour 
and a half. Serve it with melted butter, 
into which pot a table-spoonful of ketdrap 
and one of Lemon pickle. 

TRIPE, BREADED. Cut yoor tripe 
into cNSiall square (ueces, and give them a 
few tiirns in some butto', with parsley, salt, 
and pepper; roll each bit in grated bread, 
and broil them slowly. When done, serve 
them with slices of lemon. 

TROUT.. This fish is bekl in great 
estimation, it ^ is a fresh water fish, and 
«rii«a good, of a flesh oobr, and the spots 
npon it are very bright ; the female is con- 
sidered the best, and is known by the head 
being smaller, and the body being deeper 
than that of the male. 

TROUT, POTTED. Mix together 
the following quanti^ of finely-powdered 
spices: — One ounce of cloves, half an ounce 
of Jamaica pepper, quarter of an ounce of 
black pepper, quarter of an ounce of cay- 
•enne, two nutmegs, a little mace, and two 
tea-epoonfiils of ginger; add the weight of 
the spices, and half as mnch again of salt, 
and mix all riioroughly. Clean the fish, and 
cnt off tlie heads, fins, and tails; put a tea- 
spoonful of the mixed spices into each fish, 
and lay them into a deep earthen jar, with 
the backs downwards; cover them with 
clarified butter, tie a (laper over the mouth 
of tlie jar, and Imke them slowly for eight 
hoars. When the back bone is tender, the 
fish are done enougli. Take them out of 
the jar, and put tliem into a milkpan with 
Ae backs upwardo; cover them with a 
^ward, and place upon. it a lieavy weight. 
When perfectly cold, remove the fish mto 
fresh jars, smootli them with a knife, and 
cover them with clarified butter. 

TROUT, TO COLLAR. Wash them 
dean, split tliem down the back bone, and 
dry them well in a cloth ; season them well 
with finety-pouoded black pepper, salt, and 
mace; roll them tight, and lay them dose 
into a dish; puur over an equal quantity of 
vinegar and lieer, with two or three bay- 
leaves, and some whole black pepper; tie 
over tlie dish a pheet of Irattered paper, and 
hake them an hour^ 

TROUT, TO BROIU Cut off the fins, 
and cut the fidli down tlie back, close to the 
bone, and si>ljt the bead in two. Another 



way isf after they have been cM op&n, to 
nib a little salt over them ; kst then ne three 
or (bur hours, and then hang than up in the 
kitchen. They will be ready to broil the 
next morning for breaUhst. 

TROUT, TO BOIL. Clean and gut 
them ; make the water as sak as for boil- 
ing salmcHi in, and when it boils put in the 
trout, and let them boil fast firom fifteen 
to twenty minntes, according to their site. 
Saoce; — melted butter. 

TROUT, TO PRY. Out ofl^ the fins, 
clean and gut them; dust them with flour, 
and dip them into the yolk of sn ^g beaten ; 
strew grated bread crumbs over, and fry them 
in fresh dripping; lay them upon the hack 
of a sieve beibre the flre to drain. Sauce; 
—melted butter, with a table-spoonful of 
ketchup, and one of lemon pickle in it. 
When they are small, roll them in oatmeal 
before tliey are fried. 

TRUFFLES . The truflfe, like the mush- 
room, is a species of fungua common im 
France and Italy; it senerally grows about 
eight or tm inches below the surface of the 
ground ; as it imparts a most delicious flavor, 
it is much used in cookery. Being dug out 
of the earth, it reqnii'es a gt^eat deal of wash- 
in? and brushing, before it can be applied to 
culinary purposes ; when washed, the water 
should be warm, and changed frequently. It 
loses much of its flavor when dried. 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. Mfnce two or 
tliree truffles very small, and toss them up 
lightly, in either oil or butter, according to 
your taste ; then put to them four or five la- 
dlefuls of veloute and a spoonfiil of roii' 
Bomme; let it lioil for about a quarter 
of an hour over a gpntle fire, skim off al) 
the fet; keep yoor sauce hot in the 6at»- 
marie. 

TRUFFLES TOURTE. Take two 
pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick them ; 
put diem into a stewpan, with six thin slices 
of ham, a very litde carrot, a sliced onion , 
a bay-feaf, sweet lierfas in powder, salt, and 
Champagne; lay rashers of bacon over tim 
whole, and stew diem to nearly a jellv. 
When cold, put the truffles into a crust with 
aU the seasoning; bake the <oiir^«, and serve 
as usual. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Rub tuo 
ounces of butler into half a pound of dried 
flour; add a few caraway seeds, and a quar- 
ts of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; mis 
it to a stiff paste with a little water, roll Ft 
out very thin, cut it into round cakes with 
a glass or tlie top of a dredging box^ priqk 



TC R 



226 



TCR 



(hem widi a fink, and bake them npoo 



TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Put into a 
nicely-tinned saucejsan a pint of milk, and 
when it boib, stir in as.much flour as will 
make it a thick batter; add three well- 
beaten eggs, and two or three drops of oil 
of cinnamon, or any other seasoning; dust 
a large flat plate with flour, with a spoon 
throw on it tiie batter, in the form of balls 
or fritters, and drop them into boiling cla- 
rified dripping or lard. Serve them with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed over. 

The batter may be made into a pudding, 
adding with the eggs an ounce of salt but- 
ter. Boil and serve it with a sweet sauce. 

TURBOT. Turbot, when good, shoukl 
be thick and full, and the belly oC a }'elk>w- 
ish white or cream color. 

TURBOT, BAKEJD, Wash vour fish 
in several waters, dr\' it well, ana soak it 
in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parley, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; in half an hour 
put the whole into a baking dnh, envelope 
It completely in bread crumbs, and bake it. 

TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a 
■mall turbot as usual, slit it across the back, 
and soak it for an hour in melted butler, 
or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, 
•alt, and iiepper. Cover the fiiah with 
bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, 
squeeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over 
it, and serve, 

TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn 
over the skin of the under side, without cut- 
ting it ofl*; make a/arcc, with some butter, 
parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all 
shred, and united together, with yolks of 
egga, and seasoned with pepper and salt; 
spread this all over the under part of the 
fiish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. 
Dissolve some butter in a saucepan ; add to 
it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet 
herbs shred, salt, and pepper; ml) the fish 
all over witl) this, then bread, and bake it. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (1) This excellent 
fish is in season tlie greatest part of the sum- 
mer; when good, it is at once firm and ten- 
der, and abounds with rich gelatinous nu- 
triment. 

Being drawn, and washed clean, if it be 
quite fi«8li, by rubbing it lightly with salt, 
and keeping it in a cold place, you may in 
moderate weather preserve it for a couple 
of days. 

An liour or two before you dress it, soak 
it in spring water with some salt in it, then 



score the skin across the thickest part ef 
the back, to prevent its breakii^ on the 
breast, which will happen from the ^ 
swelling, and cracking the skiit, if this pn> 
caution be vtfii used. Pqt a large handAl 
of salt into a fish-kettle with cold water, 
lay your fish on a fish-strainer, pot it in, 
and when it is coming to a boil, skim il 
well ; then set the kettle on the side of the 
fire, to boil as geody as possible lor aboal 
fifteen or twenty minutes (if it boils &st, 
the fish will brrak to pieces) ; 8appoBin|jr it 
a middling-sized turbot, and to weigh e^ 
or nine pounds. 

Rub a little of the inside red carsA qnwn 
of die lobstor through a hair sieve, with- 
out butter ; and when the tuiiiot is dished, 
sprinkle the spawn over it. Garnish the 
dish with sprigs of curled parsl^, shoed 
lemon, and finely-scraped horaeradisb. 

If you like to send it to table in full drea, 
surround it with nicely-fried smdts, gudg- 
eons are often used for this purpose, and may 
be bought very cheap when smeits are very 
dear; lay the largest opposite the broadest 
part of the turbot, so that they may form a 
well-proportioned fringe for it; or oyaters; 
or cut a sole in strips, craesways, about the 
size of a smelt ; fry them and lay theflB 
round. Send up k>bster sauce, two boats 
of it, if it is for a large party. 

06*. — The thickest part is the &vorite; 
and tlie carver of this fish must remember 
to ask his friends if they ai'e fin-fonciere. 
It will save a troublesome job to the carver 
if the cook, when tiie fish is boiled, ads the 
spine bcHie across the middle. 

TURBOT^ TO BOIL. (2) Put into 
the turbot kettle, with the water, two large 
handfuls of salt, and a tea-cupful of vinegar; 
when it boils very fiist, take off the scum; 
put in tlie turbot, and when it boils again 
keep it binling fast till the tui-bot rises m» 
the ^ drainer; when it ia sufiirieiitlv done, 
dish and garaish it with a fringe of curled 
parsley and cut lemon. Sauces; — k>b8ler 
and melted butter. 

Cold boiled turbot eats well with salad 
sauce. 

Tui-bot is generally considered best pei^ 
fectly fresh; but some people prefer it kepi 
for a few days, hung up by the tail in • 
cool place. 

TURBOT, GRILLED. SpUt the fi* 
down the back, and soak it fx sometime^ 
with melted butter, parsley, sweet herfai, 
salt, and pepper, Bread die turbot wefl, 
broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville 
orange-juice. 

TURBOT, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 
Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and 



TUB 



227 



TUR 



ifreet herbs into a utewpan, place a mall 
tocbot on these* strew similar herbs, salt, 
pepper, and a leek, cut in pieces over it; 
cover the fish with equal quantities of vine- 
gar, and white .wine; let i( boil over a 
moderate fiie until sufficiently done; in the 
meaotime, melt a pound of Ixitter, add to it 
• couple of boned anchovies, two spoonfuls 
of capers, shred small, two or three leeks, 
alt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, 
aad a sprinkling of flour; make all these 
quite hot, stirring constantly till done ; then 
dish the turbpt, pour the sauce over it, and 
serve. 

TURKEY, BOILED. Make a stuffing 
<^ bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lem- 
on-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit 
of butter, some suet, and an egg; put this 
into the crop, festen up the skin, and boil 
the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very 
white. Have ready some oyster sauce 
made rich with butter, a little cream, and a 
spoonfiil of soy, and serve over the turkey, 
or you may serve over it a liver and lemon 



TURKEY, TURKEY POULTS, and 
OTHXR Poultry. A fowl and a Uu-key 
require the same management at the fire, 
oalv the latter will take k>nger time. 

Many a Christmas dinner has been spoil- 
ed by the turkey having been hung up in a 
cold larder, and becoming thoroughly fro- 
aen ; Jack Frott has ruined the reputation 
of many a turkey roaster. 

Let them be carefiilly picked, &c. and 
break the breast bone (to make them look 
phiDQp), twist up a sheet of clean writing 
paper, light it, and thoroughly singe the 
turk^ all over, turning it about over the 
flame. 

Toiiceys, fowls, and capons have a much 
better appearance, if, instead of trussing 
them with the legs close together, and the 
. feet cut off, the legs are extended on each 
side of the bird, and the toes only cut off, 
with a skewer through each foot, to keep 
diem at a proper distance. 

Be carefiil, when you draw it, to preserve 
the liver, and not to break the gall-bag, as 
no washing will take off the bitter taste it 
{fives, where it once touches. 

Prepare a nice, clear, brisk fire for it. 

Make stuffing; stuff it under the breast, 
where the craw was taken out, and make 
some Into balls, and boil or fry them, and 
iay them round the dish ; they are handy to 
help, and you can then reserve some of the 
inside utufling to eat with the cold turkey, 
or to enrich a hash. 

TURKEY EN DAUBE. Take an old 
tnrkey* tnus it in the usual way; roll some 



large lardtnu in a mixture of sak, pepMf, 
four spices, and sweet herbs, and then bud - 
the turkey with Uiem; lay slices of bacon 
in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, 
with two small knuckles of veal, the lert of 
the bird, four c«vrots, six onions, three 
ck)ve8, two bay-leaves, tliyme, a bunch of 
parslev, and young onions; cover the whole 
with bacon and a piece of battered paper; 
dilute it with four ladlefuls of stock (or 
more if the turkey be very larse), put in a 
little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil 
slowly for three hours and a half; tlien take 
it off, but do not take the bird out for at 
least half an hour. Strain off the liquor, 
and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if 
very thin ; break an egg into another sauce* 
pan, beat it up well, and then pour the li- 
quor on it, whisk them well together, and 
if it wants flavor, add a few sweet herbs, 
parsley leaves, and a youn^ onion or two; 
put it on the fire, stirring it violently until 
ready to boil ; as soon as it has boiled up 
once or twice; set it by the side of a stove, 
put fire on the top of the saucepan, and let 
It simmer half an hour ; then strain it care- 
fully throu^ a fine cloth, and let it cool to 
serve it with the turkey. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (1) Clut up the 
remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a 
stewpan, with a glass of white wine, chop- 
ped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, truffles, 
salt and pepper, two spoonfuls of cuUis, and 
a little stock ; boil half an hour, and reduce 
to a thick sauce; when ready, add a pound 
of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon ; skim 
off a)l the fax from the sauce, and serve all 
together. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (2) Stir a 
piece of butter rolled in flour into some 
cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boib 
up; mince some cold roasted or boiled 
turkey, but not too small; put it into the 
sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white pepper, 
pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup or 
mushroom powder ; simmer it up, and serve. 
Oysters may be added. 

TURKEY, ROASTED. It may be 

either stuffed with sausage meat, or stuffing 
the stime as for fillet of veal. As this makes 
a large addition to the size of the bird, take 
care that the heat of the fire is constantly to 
that part, as it frequently happens that the 
breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of 
paper should be put on the bone to prevent 
its scorching, while the other parts are 
roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve 
witli gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a 
beaten egg should be added to the i 
of sausage meal. 



tdir 



228 



ttJIt 



tURKBY, STUFFED WITH SAU- 
SAGES AND CHESTNUTS. Roast 

what qtiantiiy of cheatnuta you think necee- 
nry, peel' them, and pound a part of them 
to make s tmrety with the liver/ chopped 
poTilev, ahallotB, a little nit and pepper, a 
bit oi butter, and the yolks of three raw 
eggs, put this /arce. into the crop, and stuff* 
the body with the whole chestnuts, and small 
sausages, first fried in butter till about half 
done ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon< 
and put paper over that, tlien roost it, and 
■erve with a chestnut cuUis. 

TURNIPS, TO DRESS YOUNG 
White. Wash, peel, and boil theih till 
tender irf #ater with a little salt ; serve them 
with melted butter poured over them. Or, 
Tbev may be stewed in a pint of milk thick^ 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and served 
with the 



TURNIPS. Peel off half an inch of the 
stringy outside. Full-grown turnips will 
take about an hour and a half gentle boiling; 
if ^ou slice them, which m ist people do, they 
will be done sooner \ try them with a fork ; 
when tender, take them up, and lay them on 
a sieve till the water is thoroughly drained 
from them. Send them up whole; do not 
slice them. 

TURNIPS, TO Boil Yeli^w or 
Large White. Wash, pare, and throw 
them iato cold water; put them on in boiling 
water with a little sak, and boil them from 
two hours to two and a half, drain them in 
a cullender, put them into a saucepan, and 
mixing in a bit of butter, with a beater mash 
them very smootlily, add half a pint of milk, 
mix it well with the turnips, and make them 
quite hot before sei*ving. If they are to be 
served plain, dish them as soon as the water 
is drained off. 

TURNIP TOPS, Are the shoots which 
grow out (in the spring) of the old turnip, 
roots. Put them mto cold water an hour 
before they are to be dressed ; the more Hea- 
ter they are boiled in, tlie lietter they will 
look ; if boiled in a small quantity of water 
they will taste bitter: when the water bnila, 
put in a snutll hnndful of salt, and then your 
vegetables; if fresh and young, they will be 
done in about twenty mmutes ; drain them 
on the back of a sieve, 

TURTLE SOUP. (1) To dre98 a 
Turtle weighing one hundred and twenty 
pounde. Having cut off the head close tu 
tbc shell, hang up tlie turtle till the next 
day, then open it, bearing the knife heavi- 
ly on the back of the animal in cutting it 



off aH imrod ; tHrn it on its end, that alf 
the Mood and water may run out, then «il 
the flesh off along the spine, sbpiiig the knife 
towards the bones so av to avoid toochinf 
the gall, and having also cut the flesh from 
the Kgs and otlier memliers, wash the whole 
well and drain it. A large vessel of boil- 
ing water being ready on the fire, pot in 
the breast shell, and when the plates will 
separate easily take them out of the water; 
boil the beck and belly in water til) the softer 
parti can be taken off easify ; but before they 
are sufficiel>tly done, as they are to be again 
boiled in the sauce, lay them to cool sii^ 
in earthen vessels that they may not sties 
together, let the bones continue to stew for 
some time, as the liquor must be used for 
moist^ing the sauces. 

All the flesh cut from the bodyy the foir 
legs and head must be stewed in the following 
manner. Lay a few slices of ham on die 
bottom of a lai^ stewpnn, and over the ham 
two or three knuckles of veal, then above the 
veal, the inside flesh of the' turtle, and that 
of the members over the whole, adding a 
large bunch of sweet herbs^ such as sweet 
basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, a hand- 
ful of parsley, and green onions, and a large 
onion stuck with six cloves* llien par^ 
moisten it with the water in which the shefi 
is lx)iling, and wlien it has stewed seme 
time, moisten it again with the liquor in 
which the back and belly have been boiled. 
Wlien the legs are tender, take them out, 
drain, and put them aside to be afterwards 
added to the sauce ; and when the flesh ir 
completely dune, drain it through a silk sieve, 
and mix with tlie cauce some veiy thin white 
roux; then cut all the softer parts, now 
sufficiently cold, into pieces about an indi 
square, add them to the sauce, and let them 
simmer gently till they can be easily pierced; 
skim it well. 

Next chop a small quantity of herbs, and 
boil them with a liltle sugar in four bolfles 
of Madeira till reduced to two, ihca rob it 
through a tammy, mix it with the tiirtls 
sauce, and let it Imil for a short time. Make 
some forcemeat balls as folbws:— Cm off 
about a pound of meat from the fleshy part 
of a leg of veal free fiom sinews or £it, soak 
in milk about the same quantity of crnmhs 
of bread ; when quite soft, sqiieese and pot 
it into a mortar, together with the veal, a 
small quantity of calf's udder, a little butter, 
die yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a littk 
cayenne, salt and spices; pound the whole 
very finely, then thicken the mixture with 
two whole e^^ and the yolk of a third, throw 
a bit into boiling water, and if not sufficiently 
firm, add the yolk of another egg, and for 
variety some chopped parsley may be mixed 
with half of the forcemeat. Let the whob 
cool so that it may be formed into baMsabeat 



TUR 



229 



VEAL 



fktb ibe of the yolk of An «gg, poach them in 
boiling water, and add U^ to the turtle. 
Tteivre serving, mix a little cayenne with 
the juice of two or three lemons, and add it 
to the soup. It is generally pnelerable to 
prepare the soup the day before it is required 
for use, and it wiH be best heated in a water 
bath, or flat vessel oonttiining water, whidi 
is alwa^ kept very hot, but not allowed to 
boil. By the same method, sauces, stews, 
and other made dishes may be kept hot. 

When the fins c^ the turtle are to be served 
as a side di^h, they must be first parboiled, 
then skinned, and stewed in a little turtle 
Bmce, with some Port wine, and seasoned 
with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice, 
and thickened with butter and flour. 

Fricandeaux and Blanquettes may also be 
made of the flesh of the turtle, in the same 
way as those of veal. 

TURTLE SOUP. (2) The day before 
yon dress a turtle, chop the herbs, and make 
the foroemeat; then, on the preceding eve- 
ning, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins 
witb a cord ; and put one round the neck, 
willi a heavy weight attarbed to it to draw 
oat the neck, that the bead may be cut off 
with more ease ; let the turtle hangali night, 
in which time the bkxxl will be well drained 
from the body. Then, early in the morning, 
having your stoves, and plenty of hot water 
in readiness, take tlie tuitie, lay it on the 
table on its back, and with n strong pointed 
knife cut all round the under shell, (which is 
the calUpee) ; diere are joints at each end, 
which must be carefully fouml, gently sepi- 
rating it from the callipaf^h (which is the 
ujpper sliell) ; be careful diat in cutting out 
the got you do not break the gall. When 
the callipee and the callipash are perfectly 
separated, take out that part of the gnt that 
leads firom the throat ; that, with tl^s three 
hearts, pot into a basin of water by them- 
selves; the other interior part ptit away. 
Take tlie callipee, and cut off the meat 
which adheres to it in four quarters, laying 
it on a clean dish. Take twenty pouncto of 
veal, chop it up, and set it in a large pot, as 
directed for enpagnoie, putting in tlie flesh 
of Uie turtle at the same time, with all kinds 
of turtle herbs, carrots, onions, one pound and 
a half of lean ham, pepper corns, salt, a little 
spice, and two hay leaves, leaving it to stew 
till it takes the color of etpagnole; pot the 
fine (the skin being scalded uflQ cumI hearts in, 
half an hour before you fill it, with half wa- 
ter, and half beef stock ; then carefully skim 
it; pat in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil 
geatiy, like eonaomme, V/hile the turtle is 
slewing, carefiilly scald the head, the calli- 
pee, and all that is soft of the callipash, at- 
tentively observing to take off the smallest 
fMilicle of skin tluUmay remain; put them 



with the gut into a large pot of water to boil 
till tender; when so, take them out, and cut 
them in squares, putting them in a basin by 
themselves till viranted for the soup. The 
next thing is the thickening of the soup, 
which must be prepared in the same manner 
as sauce ioumee. The turtle being well 
done, take out the fins and hearts, and biy ihem 
on a disli ; the whole of the liquor most pass 
thronsfa a sieve into a large pan ; then, with 
a ladKy take off all the fiit; put it into a ba- 
sin, then mix ia the turtle liquor (a small 
quantity at a time) with the thickening made 
die same as »auee ioumee} bdt it does not 
require to, neither must it be, one twentieth 
part so thick ; set it over a brisk fire, and 
continue stirring till it boils; when it has 
boiled two hotvs, being skimmed ail the 
while, squeeze it through the tammy into 
another large stewpan, put it on the fire, and 
stir it as before, till it boils; when it has 
boiled gently for one hour, pat in tlie calli- 
pee and callipash, with the gut, hearts, and 
some of the best of the meat and head, all 
cut in squares, with the furcemeat balls and 
herbs, which you should hare ready chopped 
and stewed in eapagnole; (the herbs are 
parsley, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, sa- 
vory, and a few cliopped mnsbrooins). It 
miist be carefully attended to and skimmed, 
and one hour and a half before dinner, put in 
a buttle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a 
bottle of brandy, keeping it continually boil- 
ing gently, and skimming it; then take a 
basin, put a little cayenne pepper into it, 
with the juice of six lemons squeezed through 
a sieve. When the dinner is wanted, skim 
the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little 
salt, if necessary ; tlien stir in Lie cayenne 
and lemon-juice, and ladle it into the tureen. 
This receipt will answer for a turtle between 
fifty and sixty pounds. 

IC7* For Mock Turtle and other 
Soupe, See Soupe, 



TWELFTH CAKE ICING. 



See 



VEAL. The names of die joints are as 
follows: Loin, best end — Loin, chump end 
— Fillet — Hind Knuckle — Fore knucKle— 
Neck, best end — Neck, scrag end— Blade 
bone — Breast, best end — Brisket end. 

Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, 
white, and fet, and the leg bone email. The 
finest calves have the smallest kidney, an'< its 
l)eing well covered with thick white fat, iuv* 
dicates good veal. The fillet of a cow calf 
is to be preferred, on account of the udder. 
The prime joints are the fillet, the loin, the 



VEAL 



330 



VSAL 



dmmp end of the loio, and the beet end of 
the neck. To keep it, the same directions 
may be followed, which are given for keeping 
beef. 

When the fillet is to be roasted, it shouM 
ha waslied, well dried, and the bone taken 
oQt, and the space filled with a fine stuffing, 
part of which should be put under the flap, 
then formed into a round and firmlv skew- 
ered. That the fire may be clean and strong, 
it should be made up sometime before putting 
down the roast, which sliould at first be 
placed at some distance from it, and be fre- 
quently and well basted with butter. Wlien 
about oalf roasted, a piece of white paper is 
tied over the (iit ; a little before sen'ing, it 
ia removed, the meat is then sprinkled with 
salt, dredged with fiour, and well bafited to 
Iroth it. When dished, finely melted butter 
is poured over it, with which may or may 
not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown 
gravy. It is garnished with cut lemon. 

Veal is expected to come to table looking 
dslicately clean ; and it is so easily discol- 
ored, that you must he carefol to have clean 
water, a clean vessel, and conrtantly catch 
die scum as soon and as long as it rises. 
Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled 
pork, greens, and parsley and butter, and 
onion sauce. 

Veal recinires particular care to roast it a 
nice brown. Let the fire be the same as for 
beef; a sound large fire for a large joint, and 
a brisker for a smaller ; put it at some dis- 
tance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and 
then draw it near to finish it brown. 

When first laid down, it is to be basted; 
baste it again occasionally. When the veal 
18 on the dish, pour over it half a pint of 
melted butter: if you have a little brown 
gravy by you, add that to the butter. With 
Siose joints which are not stuflfed, send up 
fi>roemeat in IkiIIs, or rolled into sausages, as 

Emisb to the dish, or fried pork sausages ; 
con and greens, are also always expected 
with boiled veal. 

Fillet of Veal, Of from twelve to sixteen 
pounds, will re(]uire from four to five hours 
at a good fire ; make some stuffing or force- 
meat, and put it in under the flap, that there 
mav be some left to eat cokl, or to season a 
ham ; brown it, and pour good melted butter 
over it 

Garnish with thin slices of lemon and 
cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or 
fried pork sausages, curry sauice, bacon and 
greens, &c. ' 

A bit of the brown outside is a fovorite 
with the epicure in roasts. The kidney, cut 
o«t, sliced, and broiled, is a high relish, 
iiliich some bon» otoonte are fond of. 

A Isoin, Is the best part of the calf, and 
will take about tliree hours roasting. Pa- 
per tha kidney fiit, and the back: some 



cooks send it up on a toait, wfaicb is takm 
with the kidney and the fat of ibis part* 
which is as delicate as any marrow. If 
there is more of it than you think will ba 
eaten with the veal, before you roast it cat 
i^ out ; it will make an excellent soet pud- 
ding; take care to have your fire knig 
enough to brown (iw ends; same aooon- 
panimenti as above. 

A Shoulder, From three houa to tfaret 
hours and a half; stuff it with the force* 
meat ordered for the fillet of veal, io the 
under side. 

Neck, beet end. Will take two howa; 
same accompanimeota as fillet. The acng 
part is best made into a pie, or broth. 

Breast, From an hour and a half to two 
hours. Let the caul remain tiU it is almost 
done, then take it off to brown it; baele» 
flour, and froth it. 

This makes a savory relidi for a kincheon 
or supper: or, instead of roasting, boil it 
enough ; put it in a cloth between t%ro pew* 
ter dishes, with a weight on the upper one, 
and let it remain so till coM; then pai* 
and trim,' e^, and crumb it, and broil, or 
warm it in a Dutdi oven; serve with h 
capers, or wow wow sauce. Breast of 
mutton may be dressed the same way. 

VEAL ALAMODE. See Be^AUt^ 



VEAL BREAST, STEWED WITH 
Green Peas. Make a quart of gravy 
with the scra^ end; strain it; cut the real 
of the veal mto small pieces of nearly aa 
equal size ; put it into a stewpan with the 
gravy, some pepper, salt, mace, half an 
ounce of butter, and a quart of green peas. 
Cover the pan closely, and let it stew neaHk 
two hours ; then put in a letbioe cut araali, 
and let it stew half an iMMn* longer. A li»> 
tie before serving, add half an oonoe of 
browned butter, mixed with a little 6aar. 

VEAL BREAST, BROILED. Half 
itmst and then score it ; season it with pBi» 
ley, a few fincly-minoed sweet herfaa, a lit- 
tle pepper and sak, and broil it. Make a 
sauce with some gravy seasoned with onioa, 
srated nutmep^, mace, salt, and an anchovy; 
boil and stram it; thicken it with floor aad 
butter. Add some minced capm and smal 
mushrooms ; pour it quite hot over the veal* 
Garnish with sUced lemon. 

VEAL BREAST, COLLARED. Bm 

it, and kay over it a thick kiyer of fcroa- 
meat, made with bread crumba, chopped 
oysters, parsley, and grated ham, seasoaad 
with learan-peel, salt, pepper, and antoMg, 
mixed with an egg beaten op. Roil mA 
bind it with tape; boil it in a cbtb, and p* 



VEAL 



231 



VEAL 



*it on 10 boiling water ; let it boil gently (or 
three hoinrs. Boil the bonea with an onion, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; 
■train and thicken it with three table-spocm- 
fiib of cream, the yolks of two eg^ beaten 
op, and a bit of butter mixed with floiiib 
Parboil and slice the sweetbread, dip it 
into an e^^, and strew tfrer it grated bread; 
fry it with forcemeat balls. Senre the 
veal with the sauce poured over it. Gar- 
nish with the sweetbread and forcemeat 
balls. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (1) Half 
roast the veal till of a light brown, then 
slew it over a stove for two hours, in a 
rich gravy, with a shalk>t, three cloves, a 
Made of mace, a little walnut pickle, some 
mtet liquor, and a few small mushrooms. 
Half an hour before serving, add a little 
anchovy^ licfuor. Garnish with out lemon 
and curled parsley. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (2) Oit 

out the blade bone, and stuff the whole with 
a nice forcemeat; sew it up, half roast it, 
and make a quart of gravy of the bones and 
trimmings; season it with whole pepper, 
two Ua&s of mace, a bit of lemon-p«J, a 
large onion, some salt, and a hunch of pars- 
ley. Strain and thicken it u iih butter roll- 
ea in flour; put in the veal, and a table- 
spoonfiil of vinegar; let it stew nearly two 
hours. A little before serving, add a table- 
vpoonlbl of lenMHi pickle, and a glass of 
white wine. Forooneat balls may be serv- 
ed with it. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (3) Out 
off the short bones or gristles of a breast 
of veal; stew tliem in a little white stock, 
with a slice of ham, an onion stuck witli 
one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a 
buncli of p&rsley, and a little salt. When 
tender, take out the meat, strain the stock, 
and put it on with a pint and a half of 
green peas; boil them, and add the veal, 
and let them stew for twenty minutes. 
Serve the grisdes in the middle, and die 
peas round Uiem. 

VEAL BROTH. See Broth, 

VEAL, BROWN ROLLKLOPS. Cut 
off some diin slices from a fillet of veal, and 
beat them. Take part of the fat from the 
loin and kidney : mince it finely with a 
Muall bit of veal, and six anchovies ; season 
with salt, pounded ginser, and mace ; put 
it over the slices of veal, and roll them up. 
Dip them into the beaten yolk of an egg, 
and then into grated bread; repeat this a 
second time, and fry them of a nice brown 
«olor in clarified beef dripping, then stew 



n some good gravy, addtnf^ a 
pidUe aiM half a pmt of whiU) 



fhem m some 
walnut 



tittb 



VEAL CAKE. Take some nice thin 
slices of veal, and season them with sail, 
pepper, and nutmeg, grated; have ready 
some hard>boiled eggs, sliced, and put a 
layer of thefie at the bottom of a basin 
or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slioei 
of nam, over this strew marjoram, Uiyme, 
parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs and lemo»- 
peel, chopped sioall; then a layer of eg^, 
veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan 
is filled; pour some good gravy over the 
whole, cover the -pan with coarse brown 
paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake 
in a stow oven ; an hour will be sufiicient 
to bake it; when cold, turn it out upon a 
dish, and serve; garnish with parsl^. 

VEAL CAKE, to be eaten cold. Poand 
in a mortar as much cold roasted lean veal 
as will fill a small mould, together with a 
slice of ham, or bacon, a piece of the crumb 
of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten 
eg^, a small bit of butter, die same of shal- 
lot, or onion ; season with pepper and salt» 
and mix all well toother ; butter the mouM, 
fill it, and bake it in an oven for about ua 
hour; turn it out when cold, and cut it info 
slices. Garnish with pickled eggs and pars- 
ley. 

VEAL COLD. Cut some cold veal into 
thin slices, the size and thickness of a half 
crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg 
well beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, 
sweet lieibs» lemon-peel shred fine, and 
grated nntroeg. Put a little fresh butter in- 
to a pan, make it quite hot, 67 tlie veal in 
it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the 
side of the fire ; make a little gravy of a 
bone of veal, shake a little fiour into the 
pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little 
lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and gar- 
nish with lemon. 

VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take 

six or seven handsomely cut chops, season 
them well with salt and pepper, and put them 
into melted butter ; when sufficiently soaked, 
put them into beaten eggs, take them out, 
and roll each separately in bread crumbs; 
make the chops as round as you can with 
your hand, and lay tliem on a dish; when 
all are breaded, l>rbil them slowly over a 
moderate fire, that the bread may not be too 
highly colored. Serve with clear gravy. 

VEAL, TO COLLAR. Bone a breast 
of veal, and beat it fiat; cover the inside 
with a nice stuffing moistened with eggs; 
roll it very tightly, liiiid it, and bake it in an 
oven with some weak stock in the dish. 



VEAL 



223 



VCAL 



Makt a rich gravy ; strain and thicken H, 
aqd pour it over the veal. Serve with or 
without forcemeat balls, and garnish with 
cat lemon. It wiH keep for a long time in 
a pickle made with.Ji^ran and water, a little 
salt, and vinegar} podi^ cold over it. 

VEAL CON Eis. Mince small one pound 
and a half of cold veal, two ounces of butter, 
and a slicie of lean ham ; pound them in a 
roortar, and noix, io five labie^poonfuls of 
cream, two tea-8poonfuls of pepper, one of 
salt, and some grated lemon-peel. Make it 
up into cones about three inches high ; rub 
them over with an egg beaten up, sift grated 
bread over them, and frv them of a light 
brown color; put fried bread crumbs into 
the difih, and place the cones upon them, or 
serve iliem with a brown gravy instead of 
crumbs. Cojd fowl, turkey, or rabbit make 
good cones. Half tlw ingredients will be 
sufficient for a corner dish. 

VEAL, COLD DRESSED. Mince 
finely the fat and lean of cold roost veiii, 
season it with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 
pepper, and salt; moisten it witli a little 
rich white stock, and a beaten egg; butter 
a pudding, sliape, put in tlie mince, and 
press it firralv, cover it closely, and set it 
mto a pan o( boiling water; let it boil an 
hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy 
thickened, or wlien turned out of the shape, 
rub it over the ton with the beaten yolk of 
an egg ; sid bread crumbs thickly over, and 
brown it in a Dutch oven; baste it with a 
little melted butter. Garnish with fried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (1) Let your cul lets- 
be about Italf an inch thick; trim them, and 
flatten them with a cleaver; you may fi-y 
tliem in fresh butter, or good drippings ; when 
brown on one side, turn them and do the 
other; if the fire is very fierce, they must 
diange sides oftcner. The time tliey will 
take depends on the thickness of the cutlet 
and the heat of the fire; half an inch thick 
will take about fifteen minutes. Make some 
gnvy, by putting the trimmings into a stew- 
pan with a littb soft water, an onion, a. roll 
of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, a sprig of 
tliyme and parsley, and a buy leaf; stew 
over a slow nre an hour, then strain it ; put 
an ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as soon 
as it is melted, mix with it as much fiour as 
will dry it up, stir it over the fire for a few 
minutes, then add the ^av^ by degrees till 
it is all mixed, boil it for five minutes, 
and strain it through a tamis sieve, and put 
it to the cutlets ; you may add some brown- 
ing, mushroom, or walnut ketchup, or lemon 
pickle, &c.: Or, Cut the veal into pieces 
about as big as a crown-piece, beat them 



with a cleavier, dip them in eggs beat 1^' 
with a little salt, and then in fine \muk 
crumbs; fry them a light brpwn in boiling 
lard ; serve under theiu some good grsTy or 
musliroom sauoe, which roa;^ t^ made in five 
ininutes. Garnish with slices of ham or 
rashers of bacon, or pork saiuuges. 

Veal forcemeat ov stuffing, pork sumgeB, 
rashers of bacon, are very relishing acoom- 
panimenls, fi-iedand sent up in the form of 
balls or caikes, and laid round as a garnidk 

VEAL CUTLETS. (2) Cut a neck of 
veal into cutlets, or take them off a leg. 
Season two well-beaten eggs with pounded 
mace, nutmeg, salt, pepper» and fineiy-chop- 
ped sweet marjoram, lemon thyine,aml pare* 
ley ; dip the cutlets into rt,. sift over ihei 
grated bread, and fiy them in clarified butler. 
Serve with a white sauce, forcemeat balK 
and small mushroomiu Ghamiah with fried 
parsley. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (3) Oit a neck 
of veal into thin cutlets, and beat dmr; 
brown some butter with an onion and Miaie 
parsley chopped small. Dip the cutlets ink) 
tlie butter, and then into finely grated bread, 
seasoned with pepper and salt; broil tlwa 
of a bn>wn n.lor; mince the peel of balfan 
orange paiiMi very tliin; add it and a grate 
of ginger to some good thickened gtavy, and 
pour it hot apon the cutlets^ 

VEAL CUTLETS. (4) Cutthemof 
a leg, or from the thick part of a loin af 
veal; beat tliem a little with a roUing-pia, 
and fry tliem in butler of a light bi-own. 
Take them out of the pan, poor off the bitf- 
ter, and strew ova- tliem grated bread, sea- 
soned with minced parsley and lemon thyme, 
grated lemon-peel and nubneg,. pepper, and 
salt. Put them into a stewpan, widi a pieee 
of fresh butter, and let them fry slowly tillof 
a good brown. Add a quarter of a pint of 
good gi*avy, and a small tea-cupfiil of thick 
creiim; let it be made very liot, fiw}neBtb 
shaking tlie pan. Serve it eamished wiia 
cut konon or forcemeat balk, mMBhrooms 
and false eggs. False eggs are made of tbe 
yolks of two hard-boil^ eggs, which are 
rubbed smooth, and dien made up with ftesk 
butter into the form of small eggi. 

VEAL CUTLETS, VENITIAN. 0< 

into neat cutlets the best part of a neck of 
veal; trim and flatten tli«n. Chop aepa- 
rately half a pint of mushrocMns, a few shal- 
lots, and a little parslev ; stew these over a 
slow fire, with a small bit of butter and a 
little rasped fat bacon. When done, pot in 
the cutlets, and season them well with psp^ 
and salt, and let them stew over a slow tin 
till quite tender; skim off the &t, and add 



VEAL 



233 



VEAL 



ft epoonful of sauce tooraee, and the yolks 
of three eggs beaten with a little creani, ilien 
mix in the juice of a lemon, and a Hale cay- 



VEAL, FILLET, STEWED. Bone, 
lard, and stuiT a fillet of veal ; half roast, and 
then stew it with two quarts of white stock, 
a tea-epoonful of lemon pickle and one of 
muduroom ketchup. Before serving, strain 
the gravy, thicken it with butler rolled in 
flour, add a little cayenne, salt, and some 
pickled mushrooms ; lieat it, and pour it over 
the ireal. Have ready two or three dozen of 
forcemeat balls to put round it and upon the 
top. Giarnish with cut lemon. 

TEAL, FLORENTINE. Take two 
veal kidneys, and mince tliem with their 
&t, very small, and mix it with a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four or five eggs, boiled 
hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, 
Booie bread crumbs, candied lemon-{)eel, cut 
smskll, and season with nutmeg, cloves, salt, 
mace, a little mountain wine, and some 
orange-flow^ water ; line the bottom of a 
dish with a nice pufl* paste, put in the above, 
cover it with puff paste, and set it to bake 
in a slow oven. 

VEAL FORCEMEAT. Of undressed 
lean veal (after you have scrap»»d it quite 
fine, and free from skin and sinews), two 
ounces, the same quantity of beef or veal 
Buet, and the same of bread cnmibs ; chop 
fine two drachms of parsley, one of lemon- 
peel, one of sweet herbs, one of onion, and 
half a drachm of mace, or allspice, beaten to 
fine powder ; pound all together in a mortar ; 
break into it the yolk and white of an eg^ ; 
rub it all up well together, and season it with 
-a little pepper and salt. This may be made 
more savory by the addition of cold boiled 
pickled tongue, anchovy, esclialot, cayenne 
or carry powder, &c. 

VEAL, FRICANDEATT. (1) Cut a piece 
of veal from the leg, the same in width and 
depth, and about eight inches in length. 
Make a hole in the under part, and fill it 
widi forcemeat; sew it up, lard the top and 
sides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Plit into a sauce- 
pan some slices of undressed mutton, three 
onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a quart of good stock ; put 
in the veal, cover the pan closely, and let it 
Btew for three hours. Take out tlie veal, 
strain the gravy, and take ofi* all the fat ; 
add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and 
three of white wine ; lioil it quick to a glaze ; 
keep the fiicandeau over hot water and cov- 
ered, UieQ glaze it, and serve with tlie rest 
20* 



of the glaze poured round it, and sorrel naee^ 
in a sauce tureeo. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (2) Cut some 
slices of veal, lard them all through, and pirt 
them into a saucepan with some white stock, 
and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace 
and pepper. Stew tliem gently an hour an<l 
a lialf ; take them out, strain the gravy, and 
take off all the fat; boil it up quickly, lay in 
tile fricandeau, and stew them till the liquor 
becomes like a brown jell^ ; lake care they 
do not bum. Scald in boiling water three 
handfuls of sorrel, cliop it, take out tlie meat, 
and make the sorrel hot in tlie sauce, and 
serve the fricandeau upon it. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (3) Clwpvei^ 
finely one pound of tlie lean of a loin of veal, 
and half a pound of the kidney fat; season 
it with pepper, salt, grated leinon-peel, the 
juice of one lemon, and a finely-shred an- 
chovy. Soak, in boiling milk, two rubks, 
or biscuits, and mix it all well togedier; 
make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry 
them of a light brown, in butter, tlien stew 
tliera in boine higlily-seasoned gravy, dish 
them carefully, and strain the gravy over 
diem. Garnish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (4) Take tlie 
round or part of the round of a fillet, fry it 
in butter, of a nice brown, witli onions cnt 
in slices, and a lillie garlic, then set it to 
stew in some very rich gravy or cullis: when 
lender, take it out, thicken the gravy wiUi 
flour, add a little lemon-juice, and serve 
this sauce over tiie veal. 

VEAL FRITTERS. Cut the remains 
of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, 
round pieces; dip these into a go<xi battei-, 
and fry them in the usual way, in oil. Wlicn 
done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve 
them. 

VEAL, HASHED OR MINCED. To 

make a hash cut tlie meat into slices; — to 
prepare minced veal, mince it as fine as 
possible (do not chop it) ; put il into a stew- 
pan with a few spoonfuls of veal or mutton 
broth, or make some with the bones and 
trimmings, as ordered for veal cutlets, a little 
lemon-peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream; diicken with butter and flour, and 
season it with salt, a table-spoonful of lemon 
pickle, or Basil wine, or a pinch of curry 
powder. 

If you have no cream, beat up the yolks 
of a couple of eggs with a little milk: line 
the dish with sippets of lightly toasted liread. 

Minced veal makes a very pretty dish put 
into scollop sliells, and Iwead crumbed ov^r. 



VEAL 



234 



VEAL 



and sprinkled with a little btitter, and broiKOi- 
ed"in a Dutch oven, or a cheese-toaster. 

VEAL, KEBOBBED. Cut into thin 
bits tlie size of a crown-piece some lean veal ; 
season them with tumeric, |)epper, and eiah. 
Slice onions very thinly, and some garlic: 
put the Alices of veal and onion upon a skewer, 
together with thin bits of pickled pork. Fry 
them brown with butter, and garnish witn 
plenty of fried pai'sley. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, RAGOUT. Cut 

a knuckle of veal into slices about half an 
inch thick; pepper, salt, and flour tlieni; 
fry theoi a. light brown ; put the trimmings 
into a stewpan, with the bone broke in sev- 
eral places; an onioo sliced, a head of cele- 
ry, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two blades 
of bruised mace: pour in warm watei* enough 
to cover them about an inch ; cover the pot 
close, and let it stew very gently for a couple 
of hours; strain it, and then thicken it with 
flour and butter ; put in a spoonful of ketch- 
up, a glass of wine, and juice of half a lemon ; 
give It a boil up, and strain into a clean 
stewpan ; put in the meat, make it hot, 
and nerve up. 

Obs. — If celery is not to be had, use a 
carrot instead or flavor it with celery seed. 

VEAL KNUCKLE, STEWED WITH 
RICE. As boiled knuckle of veal cold is 
not a very fevorite relish with tlie generaljly* 
cut off some steaks from it, which you may 
dress as in the foregoing receipt, and leave 
the knuckle no larger than will be eaten the 
day it is dressed. Break the shank bone, 
wash it clean, and put it in a large stewpan 
with two quarts of water, an onion, two 
blades of mace, and a tea-s{)oonful of salt: 
set it on a quick fire ; when it boils, take 
ofi* all the scum. Wash and pick a quarter 
of a pound of ric« ; put it into tlie stewpan 
with the meat, and let it stew very gently 
for about two hours: put tlie meat, &c. in a 
deep dish, and the rice round it. Send up 
bacon with it, parsnips, or greens, and finely 
minced parsley and butter. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, SOUP. A knuckle 
of veal of six pounds, weight, will make a 
lar^e tureen of excellent soup, and is thus 
easily prepared : cut half a pound of bacon 
into slices about half an inch thick, lay it at 
the bottom of a soup-kettle, or deep stewpan, 
and on this place the knuckle of veal, having 
first chopped the bone in two or three places ; 
fiimish It with two carrots, two turnips, a 
head of celery, two large onions, witli two 
or thiX3e cloves stuck in one of them, a dozen 
corns of black, and the same of Jamaica 
pepper, and a good bundle of lemon thyme, 
' winter eavovy, and parsley. Just cover the 



meat with cold water, and set it over a quick 
fire till it boils; having skimmed it well, 
remove your soup-kettle to the side of the 
fire ; let il stew veiy gently till it is quite 
lender, f . e. about four houiv ; then take out 
tlie bacon and veal, strain the soup, and set 
it by in a cool place till yon want it, when 
you must take off the fat from the surface of 
your li(}Uor, and decant it (keeping back the 
settlings at tlie bottom) into a clean pan. 

If you like a thickened soup, put three ta- 
ble-spoonfub of the fat vou have taken off the 
soup into a small stewpan, and mix it with 
four table-spoonfuls of flour, pour a ladleful 
of soup to it, and mix it with the rest by de* 
grees, and boil it up till it is smooth. 

Cut the meat and gristle of the knuckle 
and the bacon into mouthfuls, and put them 
into the soup, and let tliem get warm. 

You may make this more savory by ad- 
ding ketchup, &c. Shin of beef may be 
dressed in Uie same way ; see Knuckle of 
Veal stewed with Rice. 

VEAL LEG IN SURPRISE. Lard 
tlie veal with slips of bacon, and a little 
lemon-peel cut very thin ; make stuffing the 
same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it 
half a pint of oysters chopped small, and 
stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew 
with just sufficient water to cover it; let it 
stew very gently till quite tender ; then take 
it up; skim off the &t from llie liquor, 
and add some lemon-juice, some mushroom 
ketchup, tlie crumb of a roil grated fine, half 
a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit 
of butter rolled in flour; let this sauce tliick 
en over the fire, and serve it over the veal; 
garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in 
butter, and fried, and thin slices of toasted 
bacon. 

VEAL, MINCED. Cut thin slices of 
lean cold veal ; mince tliem very finely with 
a knife, and season with pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; put it into assuioe> 
pan, with a little white stock or water, a 
table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and a little 
mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let 
it boil; add a bit of butter rolled in dour, 
and a little milk or cream ; put all round 
the dish thin sippets of bread cut into a 
three-cornered shape; or cover the minoe 
thickly with grated bread, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown 
It with a salamander; or serve with poached 
eggs laid upon the top. 

VEAL OLIVES. Oit thin slkjesoffa 
fillet, and flatten them widi a rolksr; aeBSoii 
them highly with pef^ier, maoe, salt, and 
grated lemon-peel; put a bit of ^ into each 
roll, and tie them witli a thread. Fry them 
of a light brown, and stew them in somi 



T£AL 



d35 



VEAL 



while stock with two dozen of fried oysters, 
■ glass of white wine, a table-spoonful of 
leoaun pickle and some small mushrooms. 
Stew them nearly an hour; take off the 
thi-eads before serving. 

Beef olives may he dressed in the same 
way. 

VEAL PATTIES, Mince some ander- 
^one veal with a little parsley, one or two 
sage leaves, a very little onion; season with 
grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; 
•odd some grated lean ham or tongue, moisten 
it with some good gravy, heat it up, and put 
it into the patties. 

VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Cbop 
about six oonces of ready-dressed lean veal, 
and three ounces of ham very small; pyt it 
into a stewpan with am ounce of butter roll- 
ed into flour, half a ^ill of cream.; half a 
fill of veal stock ; a little grated nutmeg and 
.kmon-peei, some cayenne pepper and salt, a 
flpooofijl of essence of ham and lemon-j^ice, 
and stir it over the fire sometime, taking 
•care it does not hum. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. Take two 
pounds of veal cutleta, cat them in middling- 
-sized pieces, season with pepper and a very 
little salt; likewise one of raw or dressed 
liam cut in slices, lay it alternately in the 
4ish, and put some farced or sausage meat 
at the top, with some stewed button mush- 
rooms, and the yolks of three eggs boiled 
hard, and a gill of watery then proceed as 
with rump-steak pie. 

N. B. — ^The best end of a neck is the fine 
part for a pie, cut into chops, and the chine 
bone taken away. 

VEAL PIE. (I) Cut a nedc of veal into 
neat steaks, season them well with white 
pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg mix- 
>ed ; pack them closely into a dish, and put 
in half a pint of white stock ; five hard-boil- 
ed yolks of ^gs may its added ; put puff 
paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with 
the same. Lambs* tails may be made into a 
pie, witli lamb chops seasoned in the same 
jnann^ as the above. 

VEXL pie. (2) Cut into steaks a 
loin or breast of veal, season them highly 
with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and 
A little lemon-pe^ mixed; lay them into 
.the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices 
of sweetbreads seasoned with tlie spices; 
add some oysters, forcemeat balls, and hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, half a pint of white 
«tock, a glass of white wine, and a table- 

rnfiil of lemon (>ickle; put puff paste on 
edge of the dish, and cover with tlie 
«aiiie; bake it ibr one bouc 



VEAL PIE. C3) Chop, but not veiy 
small, the meat of a cold lorn of veal, season 
it with minced parsley, pepper, Aali, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutmeg; add rallier more 
than half a pint of stock made with the 
bones, thickened with a bit o4' butter rolled 
in flour, and seasoned with a tea-spoonfiil 
of lemon pickle, and a table-spoonful of 
while wine; make a paste of the fat of tlie 
ioin, and an equal quantity of flour, rub it 
together, and mix with it a little cold water, 
roll it out two or three times, line the sides 
of the dish, put in die meat, and cover it. 

VEAL PIE, SOLID. Stew in veal 
stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a 
jelly, a piece of a knuckle of v«!al, witli the 
gristles adhering to it ; let it cool, and then 
pull the meat and gristles into small bits; 
butter a pie dish or ^lape, and lay at regular 
distances some bard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
and some of the white part cut into rings 
or strips; tlien put over some bits of the 
meat and gristle, and strew over it some 
pepper, saU, and grated nutmeg mixed, and 
a little of the gravy, and then more e^s, 
with small bits of beet root, green pickles, 
and the red part of a carrot cut to fancy; 
add more meat seasoning, and all the gravy ; 
when the shape is full, put it into an oven 
for twenty minutes, and when quite cold 
turn it out. If rightly done, it will have a 
glazed appearance, and the variety of col- 
ors look well by candle light. 

VEAL, POTTED. Cut slices off a k« 
o£ veal, and season them with pepper, pound- 
ed mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slices 
of fresli butter between each layer of meat 
into a potting pan or jar; cover it closely, 
and bake it with bread. When it is cold, 
pound 4he meat in a marble mortar, pack it 
closely into a jar, and pour clarified butter 
over It. 

VEAL, COLD, AN EXCELLENT 
RAGOUT. Either a neck, loin, or fillet of 
veal, will fumi^i this excellent ragout with 
a very little expense or trouble. 

Cut the veal into handsome cutlets ; put 
a piece of butter or clean drippin? into a 
frying-pan ; as soon as it is liot, flour and 
fry the veal of a light brown: take it out, 
and if you have no gravy ready, maike some 
as directed under sauces, or put a pint of 
:boi]ing water into the frying-pan, p^ive it a 
boil up for a minute, and strain it into a 
basin while you make ^some thickening ia 
the /dllowing manner: put about an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan ; as soon as it melts, 
mix with it as much flour as will dry it qp; 
stir it over the fire for a few minutes, and 
gradually add to it the gray^ you made in 
.the frying-pan; let them simmer together 



VEAL 



296 



TEa 



fer ten minutes (till thoroughly incorporat- 
ed); season it with pepper, salt, a little 
mace, and a wine-glassful of mushroom 
ketchup or wine; strain it through a tamis 
to tlie meat, and stew very gently till the 
meat is thoroughly warmed. If you have 
any ready-boiled bacon, cut it in slices, and 
put it in to warm with the meat. 

VEAL ROLL. Bone a small breast of 
veal, and spiead over it a rich and higlily- 
seasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled 
eggs the long way into four pieces, and lay 
them in rows, with green pickles between 
each row. Roll up the veal tightlv, and 
eew it; then put it into a cloth, and bind it 
with taper Lay a slice of kim over it, and 
put it into a saucepan, together with some 
strong t^tock, and a little M'hole peprjer, and 
stew it for three hours. Make a rich gra- 
vy, and boil it up with a little white wine 
and lemon-juice or lemon- pick le ; poir it 
over the veal ; add some egg and forcemeat 
balls, and gmnish with cut green pickles. 
This dish is very good when cold. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quan- 
tities of lean veal and fat bacon, a liandful 
of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar, and season well with pepper and 
salt; when wanted for use, roH and fry it, 
and serve either with fried sippets, or on 
Btewed vegetables, or white collups. 

VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a 
fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season 
them with salt and pepper, and gi< - them a 
few turns in a little butter, with a bay leaf. 
Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a very 
til in slice of bacon, and on it one of the 
slices of veal, and continue to lay Uiem in 
alternately, until the whole are used, then 
add a ^lass of water and soite bay leaves ; 
close the ssuicepan very tight, first putting 
a sheet of paper over the meat ; stew it on 
hot aslies for four or five hours ; take cai-e 
to keep the fire up to tlie same point all the 
time. 

VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and 
some lean ham into pieces, put them into 
a saucepan, with a quart oi water, some 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery ; 
stew them down till nearly done, but do not 
let it color ; then add a sufficient quantity 
of beef stock to cover the ingi-edients, and 
let it boil for an hour ; skim off all the fat, 
and strain it ; a little game stewed down 
with the aljove will greatly improve the fla- 
vor; be I articularly careful that it does not 
burn. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 

Trim ofTtiie tough part, and blanch ibr three 



minutes in a stewpan of water, with a Ikffir 
salt, three heart sweetbreads, tiien take tfaeita 
out, and put them into a basin of cold water 
till cool ; have an egg beat up in a dish, some 
bread crumbs, and clarified butter, ran a 
skewer through the sweetbreads, and &Bt» 
tliem on tlie spit; egg them all over, fifofce 
some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clari- 
fied butter over, and then bread crumbs 
again ; put them down to roast again for a 
quarter of an hour, then take tbein off tbs 
skewer, and serve them on a dish overa ijtffe 
butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, 
a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemoD- 
juire; let it be hot, but not boiMng, and 
thoiongtiLy welt mixed before it is served 
under the sweetbreads. 

VEGETABLES. There is nothing m 
which the diflei-ence between an el^ntand 
an ordinary table is more seen than in the 
dressing of vegetables, more especially greens. 
They nlny be equally as fine at 'first, at one 
place as at anotlier; but tlieir k)ok and 
taste are afterward very difl^rent, entirely 
fi*om the careless way m which they hate 
been cooked. 

They are in greatest perfection when is 
greatest plenty, t. e. when in fiill seasm. 

By season,! do not mean those early days, 
that luxury in the buyers, and a^tirice iu the 
sellers, force tlie vegetables; but that time 
of tlie year in which by nature and commOB 
culture, and the mere operation of the sod 
and climate, tliey are in niost plenty and 
perfection. 

As to the quality of vegetables, the middle 
si'^e are preferred to the largest or the small- 
est; they are more tender, juicy, and foil 
of flavor, just before they are quite fuH-growo. 
Freshness is tlieir cliief value and excellence, 
and I should as soon think of roasting an 
animal alive, as of boiling a v^;etable after 
it is dead. 

The eye easily discovers if tlicj' have been 
kept too long; they soon k>se their beauty is 
all respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, &c. and the varioi* 
productions of the garden, when first gatlw- 
e<l, are plump and fii-ni, and have a fragrant 
fi-eshness no art can give them again, w:oi 
they have lost it by long keeping ; tliough it 
will refresh them a little to put them into 
cold spiing water for sometime before ri«y 
are dressed. 

To boil them in soft water %vt11 prescne 
the color best of such as are gneen ; if yn 
have only hard water, put to it a tea-spoon- 
ful of carbonate of potash. 

Take care to wafh and cleaiw=c them 
thoroughly from dust, dirt, and insects: ihii 
re{|uires gr»at attention. Pick off all Ae 
outside leaves, trim them nicel}', and, if ^ 
quite fresh gailiered and have b^me flaccid, 



VEO 



237 



VfiG( 



it ie absolutely neoeamry to restore, tbeir 
erispiieas before cooking them, or they will 
be tough and unpleaaant: lav tliem in a pan 
of clesui %vater, with a handfal of salt io it, 
fear an liour before yoa dresB them. 

They shoold always be boiled in a sauce- 
pan by themselves, and have plenty of water ; 
if meat is boiled with them m the same pot, 
they will spoil the look and taste of each other. 
If you wish to have vegetables delicaldy 
clean, put on your pot, make it boil, pot a 
little ssilt in it, and skim it perfectly clean 
before yoa pot in the greens, &c. ; which 
shoold not be put in till the water boils brisk- 
ly: the quickfK' they boil, the greener -they 
will be. Wlien die vegetables sipk, they are 
senerally done enough, if the water has been 
kept constantly boilin^. Take them up im- 
mediately, or tliey will lose tlieir cofer and 
goodnesit. Drain the water from them 
thoroughly before you send them to table. 
This branch of cookery requires the most 
vigilant attention. 

If vegetables are a minute or two too loiw 
over the fire, they lose all thehr beauty and 
flavor. 

If not thoroughly boiled tender, they are 
tremendously indigestible, and much more 
trouble8f>me during their residence in die 
8tonaa<^, than under-done meats. 

Once for all, take care your v^;etables 
are fredi: for as the fishmotiger often suffers 
for the silts of the cook, so tlie cook often 
gets undeservedly blamed instead of the 
green-grocer. 

StrongH9cented vegetables should be kept 
apart; leeks, or celery, laid among cauli^ 
flowers, &c. will quickly 8}N)i| tliem. 

Succulent vegetables are be^jt preserved in 
a cool, shady, and damp place. 

Potatoes, turaips, carrots, and similar 
roots, intended to he stored up, should never 
be cleaned from the earth adhering to diem, 
till they are to be dressed. 

'Fliey must be protected from die action 
of the air and frost, by bying them in lieaps, 
burying diem in sand or earth, &c., or cov- 
ering diem with straw or mats. 

When vegetables are quite fresh gathered, 
they will not require so much boiling, by at 
least a third of the time, as when dtey have 
been gadiered die usual time of those that 
are brought to public markets. 

Vegetables are aUvays best when newly 
gathered, and should be brought in from die 
garden early in the morning; they will tlien 
bave a fragrant fresliness, which tbey lose by 
keeping. 

Tbev must be cktaned with the greatest 
eare, the outside leave:* of every description 
cf greens i-emoved, and thev, and all other 
vegetables, more particularlv when not re- 
ceat\y gatliered, should be laid for several 
JKMUns io cold water, and yfeW sliaHei? tto 



throw out the insects. A tea-«poorifiil of 
salt shouki always be put into the water in 
which diey are to be boiled, and if it is hard, 
a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar^ or potash, 
may be added to preserve the green color of 
the vegetables. 

All vegetables shoakl be boiled quick Iy» 
and, with the exception of spinach, in an 
opeo vessel, skimming them carefully. 

Kitchen greens shnuU be kept in a cool 
and shady pbce. Potatoes, carrots, lumipg^ 
and beet root shouki be stored up, without 
being cleaned from the eardi adhering to 
them, in byers of sand, or laid in heaps, and 
covered witn earth and straw. Parsnips and 
ri(irretB not being injured by frost, are gen- 
erally left in the ground, and laken up u 
wanted. Onions are stored in a wami, dry 
place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes 
strung in bundles, and suspended from the 
roof, and, more efllectually to prevent dieir 
growing, some people select the finest bulbs, 
and singe the roots widi a hot iron. 

Herbs of all smIs slioukl be gathered when 
in flower, and on a dry day, and bein^ well 
cleaned from dust and diit, tliey are tied up 
in small bunches, and dried before the fire in 
a Dutch oven. They may dien be kept in 
paper bags labelled ; or rubbed to a powder, 
sifted, and put into bottles. 

VEGETABLE ESSENCES. The fla- 
vor of the various sweet and savory herbs 
may be obtained by combining their essen- 
tial oils with rectihed spirit of wir»e, in the 
proportion of one drachm of die former to 
two ounces of die latter, or by picking the- 
leavas, and laying them for a couple of 
hours in a warm place to dry, and dien fill- 
ing a large-mouthed bottle with them, and 
pouring on them wine, brandy, proof ^irit> 
or vinegar, and letting tbep pteep for Com- 
teen days, 

VEGETABLE MARROW, Is fit for 

use wlien about the size of a turkey's eg^. 
After being washed clean, it is put on m 
boiling water, with a little salt, and when 
tender, it is drained from the waiter, cut into 
half, and served on toasted bread, over 
which some melted butter has been poured. 
Or, after being boiled in milk apd water, 
diey may be fricasseed as Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, or Stewed like cuctimbers, 

VEGETABLES STEW. Pick and 
wash very ckmn ^ much spinach as will 
make a dish { mince finely three smnll on- 
ions, pick and ciiop two hs^ndfuis of fK^reley ; 
put all into a saucepan, with rather more 
than half a pint of ^ravy, a bit of liiitter 
dusted with flour, a little salt and pepper. 
Cover the pan closely, stir it now and tlien, 
9nd when the spinach is tender, niasl) jt 



VfiN 



VEH 



imooth, wem it with ilioM of lMt>iIed ham, 



VELOUTE. Take the cuttings and re- 
wains of any joints of veal and fowl vou 
may have in the house, of which take four 
pounds, and put into a faurge stewpan, with 
■oine carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, 
three bay-leaves, three cloves, and a ladle- 
Kil of stock ; put your stewpan on a fierce 
Are, skim it well, and take care that the 
neat does not stick; when sufficiently re- 
«kiced, add as much stock as will neany fill 
the stewpan, salt it well; give it a boil, 
akim it, and then put it on the side of the 
€re to simmer for two hoars; after which 
istrain it through a tammy. Make a white 
ronxy stir into it for ten minutes a few 
champignons, then pour on it, a Kttte at a 
time, tiMs above liquor; let it boil up once, 
i^im it, and set it again by tlie side of the 
4ire for an hour and a half: take oif all the 
fitt, strain it again, and tiien put it by for 
tHe. Take care that die veioute is not in 
the least colored, as, the whiter it is the 
tetter. 

VENISON. The choice of venison 
ebould be regulated hv the appearance of 
the iat, which, when the venison is young, 
looks thick, clear, and close ; as it begins 
to change first towards the haunches, run a 
knife into that part; if tainted you will 
perceive a rank smell, and it will have a 
green or bkickish af^oearanoe. 

If you wish to preserve it, ^ou may b^ 
carefiil management and watching, keep it 
for a fortnight by the following method: wash 
it well with milk and water very clean, and 
dry it perfectly with cloths until there is not 
the least damp remaining, then dust pound- 
ed ginger over evory part ; this is a good 
preventive against the fiy. When to be 
dressed, wa£ it with a little lukewarm 
water, and dry it. Pepper should also be 
added to keep it, 

VENISON COLLOPS. These are 
dressed in the same manner as mince col- 
k>p6 of beef, only that, in place of the sea- 
soning of the collops of be^, they have a 
little pepper, sak, and some Port wine. 

VENISON, HASHED. (1) If you have 

enough of its own gravy left, it is preferable 
to any to warm it up m : if not, take some 
of tlie mutton gravy, or the bones and trim- 
mings of the joint (after yoa have cut off all 
the handsome slices yon can to make the 
bash) ; put these into some water, and stew 
them gently for an hour ; then put some but- 
ter into a stewpan ; wlien melted, put to it 
as mnch fiour as will diy up the butter, and 
ftir it well together; add to it by degrees 



the gravy yon have been makinc <n the ttnh 
mings, imd some red currant jefiy ; give it a 
boil up; skim it; strain it throo^ a sievB, 
and it is ready to receive the venison: path 
in, and let it just ^et warm: if you kt il 
boil, it will make tm meat hard. 

VENISON, HASHED. (2) Warm ic 
in its own gravy; if there is no fat left, take 
some slices of mutton fet, set it on the fire 
with a little Port wine and sc^r, and let it 
simmer till dry; then add it to the hash. 

VENISON, HASHED. (3) Takesone 
anchovies, boil than till they are dissoKed, 
then add some oysters with their liquor, a 
little milk, some red wine, and a little ketch- 
up; put iny'our venis<Hi, let it warm inHiis, 
but do not iet it boil, and serve it with fiied 
sippets, and the sauce &c. over it. 

VENISON, MOCK. Hang up, for 
several days, a large fet loin of mutton; dm 
bone it, and take off all the kidney fat, aod 
the skin from the upper fet; mix togefbtr 
two ounces of brown sugar, and one ounce 
of ground black pepper. Rob it well into 
the mutton ; pour over it two or three wine* 
glasses of Port wine ; keep it covered with 
the skin ; rub and turn it daily for five dayi. 
When to be roasted, cover it with the ekui, 
and paper it the same way as venison is 
done. Serve it with made gravy, and the 
for y 



VENISON PASTY. (1) Cut a neck or 
breast into small steaks, rub them over with 
a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nuuneg, 
pepper, ami salt ; fry them slightly in butter; 
line the sides and e^ses of a dish with psff 
paste, lay in the steaks, and add half a pint 
of rich gravy made with the trimmingi of 
the venison ; add a glass of Port wiae, and 
the juice of half a lemon, or tea-spoonful of 
vinegar; cover the dish with pufif paste, and 
bake it nearly two hours ; some more gntfj 
may be poured into the pie before serving it 

VENISON PASTY. (2) Take a neck, 
shoulder, or breast of venison, that has not 
hung too k)n^; bone them, trim off all the 
skin, and cut it into pieces two inches sqoare, 
and put them into a stewpan, with three 
gills of Port wine, two onions, or a few 
eachabts sliced; some pepper, sak, thei 
blades of mace, about a dosen allspice, aad 
enough veal broth to co^-er it; put it over • 
sbw fire, and let it stew till three parts dose; 
put the trimmings into aiMther sanoepao, 
cover it with water, and set it on a fire> 
Take out tlie pieces ^rou intend for thepn«^ 
and put tliem into a deep dish with a litue 
of their liquor, and set it by to cool; tka 
add the remainder of the Uquor lo the boMi 



J 



Vfilt 

ami trinuDings, and boil it till the pMty it 
ready ; theo cover the pasty with pewte, oraa- 
vasnt the top, and bake it (or two houiti in a 
■low oven; and before it is sent to table, 
poor in a sauce made with the gtsny the 
veuidon was stewed in, strained and skiuamed 
free from fat; some pepper, salt, half a gill 
of Port, the juice of half a lemon, and a liule 
ikrar and butter to thicken it. 

VENISON PIE OR PASTY. All 
kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties 
must be highly spiced when served hot, and 
still more highly spiced when served cold ; 
but the seasoning must be r^ulated bv juc^- 
meot aqd taste. Take one or two breasts 
of venison, (according to tlie size you wish 
to make ^our pie or pasty), bone it thorough- 
ly, beat It very Hat, and lard it through and 
through with larduns, well seasoned with all 
sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chop- 
ped ; roll it up as tigtit as possible, and tie 
It up witli strong twine. Put into a stewpah 
the bones and trimmings of the venison, with 
carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of garlic, 
thyme, bay-leaf, pepper-curns, and alUpice> 
and let all stew till nearly dry ; fill it up with 
equal quantities of beef or mutton braise, and 
water, which let boil very gently till done, 
then put in the roll of venison; put paper on 
the lop, cover very close, and let it slew 
gently with fire over and under. When 
sufiSciently done, take it off the fire, and let 
it stand in the liquor until nearly cold: then 
prepare a plain paste of four pounds of fiour to 
one podnd of btilter, the same as for raised 
pie, but instead of making it stiff, mix it as 
sofl as possible,- lay part of ill is paste as 
thick as you well can round die edge of Uie 
dish; cut off the twine from the venison, 
skin, and lay it in the dish, and pour some 
of the gravy it has stewed in ; put on die 
cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in 
the top, do it over with egg, and biike it in 
a moderate oven for three or four hours; 
reduce the remainder of the liquor it was 
slewed in, and when tlie pie is baked, pour 
it in ; serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely 
be made too tliick. 

VERMICELLI, QUEEN'S. Blanch 
alxHJt a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in 
boiling water, drain it, and throw it into 
some rich well-seasoned stock ; when tender, 
laHe it out of the soup, and put it into tlie 
tiireen ; thicken the soup with eight well- 
beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream, 
and pour it, when quite hot, up(Hi the ver- 
micelli. 

VERMICELLI IN MILK. Boil the 
quantity of milk you may require, and put 
into it half a pound of vermicelli peeled, and 
a sufficient quantity of siigar ; stir ii frequent- 



ly that the vtnnioelli may not form a pmiil 
half an hoar will be long enoiigli to boil iu 
A litde ahnond milk may be added when 
ready for table. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (1) Boil 
a quarter of a pound of vermicelli widi a 
little cinnamon, io a quart of milk; in the 
meantime mix a qiarter of a pound of melt- 
ed butter with a pint of cream, and the yolk* 
of four eggs; pour in the vermicelli when 
quite soil ; add a little flour and beef mar- 
row, and powder sugar to die taste ; beat all 
up for half an hour, tie it in a flourad cbth. 
aud boil it. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (2) Boil 
four ounces of vermicelli in a pint oif new 
milk, until quite temler, widi a stick or two 
of cionamon. Then add half a pint of thick 
cream, a quarter of a pound of batter, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and tlie yolka 
of four eggs, thoroughly beaten; lay the 
above in a dish and bake. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. Take as much 
good stock as you require for your tureen* 
strain, and set it on tlie fire, and when it 
l)oils, put in the vermicelli, and let it sinuner 
for half tfn hour by a slow fire, that the ver- 
micelli may not Ixirst ; the soup ought not to 
be very thick. Half a pound is sufficient 
for eight or ten j 



VI i\ E6AR. This is an acid liquor, pre- 
pared by a second fermentation fi*om various 
liquors, such as wine, cider, perry, beer, 
mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the most 
common method of making it, in England* 
is firom malt, and the process is as follows:— 
infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an 
hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. 
As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, 
put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and 
leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after 
which put the liquor into barrels, in a room 
heated with stoves, so that a moderate warmdi 
may be kept up for six vroeks, and the far- 
mentation continue regularly. By the end 
of that time the wiioK will be completely 
soured, and must now be changed into other 
ban-els ; lay a tile on the Ixing-holes to keep 
out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a 
free circulation of air, and then place them 
in the open air for four or five months, ac- 
cording as the weadier is warm or otherwise; 
during the whole of Uiis period, the fermenta- 
tion proceeds, and at the end, the vinegar is 
nearly done. The next operation is this : the 
vinegar is poured into large vessels, called 
rapetuns, to which there are lalse bottoms cov- 
j ered with rape, that is, the refuse of raisins, 
I or other fruit, from which wine has been 
I made; fill one of these tuns entirely with 



VIN 



240 



VIN 



tf« vtncttar, and another about three-fonrtlis 
iiiU, and every day take a portion of the 
liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into 
the other, until the vinegar is in a fit state to 
be drawn off; when it must be closely bar- 
relied. 

Vinegar may also be made in much smaller 
quantities for domestic purposes ; the mate- 
rials of various kinds, with the siddition of 
sugar; raisins, currants, and ripe goose- 
berries, however, are the principal; some- 
times it is made fram brown sugar* and wa- 
ter alone. The proportions are the same as 
those neoessaiT for strong wine ; make the 
barrel about three-fourths full, add a toast 
covered with yeast, put in the buti^ very 
kmsely, and place the barrel where it will 
be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, 
near Uie fire. The fermentation sliould be 
moderate and constant till the vinegar is 
complete ; then draw it off clear, give it a 
boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle 
it. 

Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mixing 
with tl^ latter its own flowers, or ferment, 
and its tartar reduced to powder, and put 
into a vinegar or any other cask; if the 
latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, 
fiill of the steam from vinegar ; in either case 
the liquor should be stirred frequently; the 
second fomentation will speedily commence ; 
it will become heated, and turn acid by de- 
grees, and in a short time the vinegar will 
be produced. 

It is commonly supposed that wine which 
has become acid, will produce excellent vin- 
egar; this, however, is a mistaken idea, for 
tlie stronger and better the quality of the 
wine, the stronger and belter will be the 
vinegar. 

The French have several methods of mak- 
ing vinegar, which are subjoined. 

The vinegar makers of Orleans pour the 
wine, of which they intend to make their 
vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which 
are close gratings of lime twigs; tliese serve 
to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to 
the twigs, leave the liquor pei-fectly clear. 
They then procure a number of casks, each 
containing a hundred gallons, either new or 
which have previously contained vinegar; 
these are set upright, and in the top of every 
one is bored a hole, two inch^ in diameter, 
these are kept constantly open : the last men- 
tioned casks are called Mothers; pour into 
all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling 
vinegar; to this, in a week's time, add 
three gallons of wine, drawn from the first 
mentioned casks; continue to add the wine, 
at intervals of a week, until the Mothers 
are quite full ; then leave them for a fortnight, 
and at tlie end of which period they generally 
draw off the vinegar, taking care* always to 
leave the Mothers half fiHl, at least, and 



then to fill them with wine as^ before. IV 
method of fM*oving when the vinegar is fit (or 
use, is, by plunging a stave into it; if on 
taking it out, a white line is perceptible oa 
the end of it, the vinegar is auite readv' 
Tlie place where the casks are kept shooid 
be veiy airy, and in the winter time, by 
means of stoves the temperature shooid be 
raised to eighteen do^es of Reaumur. 

Paris vinegar vanes from the above, and 
the process is very simple. A large quantity 
of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and 
laid in tubs, which are placed one upon aiH 
other to form a kind of press; by means of 
a screw, every drop of wine is gradoally 
squeezed from the lees ; this operatiqn cannot 
be performed in less time than a week. The 
wine thus extracted is put into casks; in 
the headings a hole is made, as above, wfaidi 
holes are kfi constantly open; in snmnier 
time the casks so filled are placed in the 8iin» 
and, generally speaking, the vinegar is fit 
for use in a fortnight. In the winter, the 
fei*mentation will mat double the time, and 
must be assisted by artificial warmth. It 
sometimes happens that the liquor beats to 
so great a de^ee that the hand cannot be 
borne in it; in this case, the progresfl of 
the fermentation must be checked by adding 
more wine, until it proceeds more regulariy. 
When the vinegar is made, put it into caska, 
which have the beech twi^ at the boUom, 
as above mentioned ; let it remain a fort- 
night, by which time it will be sufficiently 
fermented to draw off into the casks for 
keeping it. 

Another very simple method is abo prao- 
ti:.ed in France; a few quarts are drawn 
from a barrel of excellent vin^ar, and ui 
equal quantity of very clear white wine if 
put into the barrel, close the bung lighily, 
and keep it in a place where the hoit if 
moderate and regular. In a month's time 
draw off the same q|uantity as above, and 
pour in an equal portion of white wine. A 
barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a 
constant supply for a length of time witfaoot 
leaving the slightest deposit. 

A cask which has not contained yinesir 
before, should have a quart of boiling hot 
vinegar poured into it, slmken till ookl, and 
allowed to stand fi>r some hours. 

VINEGAR, BASIL. Sweet basil is '» 
full perfection about the middle of Aisart- 
Fill a wide-mouthed bottle > with the ra 
green leaves of basil C^hese give much finer 
and more flavor than the dried,) and cover 
tliem with vinegar, or wine, and let them 
steep for ten days: if you wish a v&ry strong 
essence, strain the liquor, put it on torn 
fresh leaves, and let them steep fbuneen dajt 
more. 

Obs.^!Thn b a very agreeable additioa 



I 

J 



VIN 



341 



vin 



to jauces, soupB, and to die mixtnre unally 
made for saladB. 

It is a secret the makere of mock turtle 
may tliank us for telling; a (able-Hpoonfiil 
pot lo when the soup is finished will impreg- 
nate a tureen of soup with the basil and acid 
flavors, at very small cost, when fresh basil 
and lemons are extravagantly dear. 

The flavor of the other sweet and savory 
herba, celery, &c. may be procured, and pre- 
served in the same manner by iniuBiog them 
in wine or vinegar. 

VINEGAR, AMERICAN. Boil six 
gallons of water, and add, while it is hot, 
four quarts of molasses ; put it into a tub to 
cool ; when milkwarm, stir in a pint of 
fresh yeasty put it into the cask, and set it 
by tlie fire for twenty-fiiur hours ; then put 
it in the sun, with a bottle in the bung-hole. 
Bottle it three months afterwards. 

VINEGAR, BURNET OR CUCUM- 
BER. This is made in precisely the same 
manner as directed a1x>ve. The flavor of 
faomet resembles cucumber so exactly, that 
when infused in vinegar, the nicest palate 
would pronounce it to be cucumber. This 
is a ve^ fiivorite relish with cold meat, sal- 
ads, &C. 

VINEGAR, CAMP. Cayenne pepper, 
one draclim, avoirdupois weight. Soy, two 
lable^poonfuls. Walnut ketdiup, four ditto. 
8ix andiovies diopped. A small dove of 
tfarlic, minced fine. Steep all for a month 
tn a pint of the best vinegar, frequently shak- 
ing the bottle: strain through a tarais, and 
keep it in small bottles, corked as tightly as 
possible. 

VINEGAR, CHILI. This is eommonly 
made with the foreign bird pepper; but you 
wiH obtain a much finer flavor from infiising 
'fifty fresh red English Ghilies (cut in half, or 
pounded) in a pint of the liest vinegar for a 
fertiright, or a quarter of an ounce of cayenne 
pepper. Many people cannot eat fish with- 
out the addition of an acid and cayenne 
pepper: to such palates this will be aa 
agreeable rdish. 

VINEGAR, CRESS. Dty and pound 
faidf an ounce of cress-seed <such as is sown 
in the garden with mustard,) pour upon it a 
xmart of the best vinegar, let it steep ten 
days, shaking it op every day. This is very 
•trongly flavored with cress; and for salads 
nnd cold meats, &c it is a great fiivorite 
with nmny. 

Celery vinegar is made in the same 



VINEGAR, ELDER FLOWER AND 
21 



TARRAGON. Fill a quart bottle with 
the flowers of elder, or the leaves of tarragon, 
when it is in flower; pour vin^ar upon 
them, and let them infiirn for a fortnight; 
then strain it through a flannel bag, and pot 
it into smaH bottl^. By the same means, 
vinegar may be flavored with the fresh gath- 
ered leaves of any sweet herb. 

VINEGAR, GARLIC. Cut small one 
onnoe and a half of garlic, bruise one nutmeg 
and three cloves, steep them in a quart ot 
vinegar for a week, tdiaking it dail;^; then 
strain and bottle it. Shallot vinegar is made 
in the same manner. 

VINEGAR. GOOSEBERRY. Gather 
yeHow gooseberries when quite ripe, crush 
and mnoh them well in a tub with a lai^ 
wooden pestle; to every two gallons of 
gooseberries, after being mashed, put two of 
water; mix them well together; let it work 
for three weeks, stirring the ma^s two or 
three times each day; then strain die liquor 
through a hair sieve, and pat to every gallon 
one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
treacle, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast; 
let it work for three or four days in the same 
tub, which has been well washed ; then run 
it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand 
twelve months, and bottle it for use. This 
is a very strong vinegar. 

VINEGAR, HONEY. R^lfapound 
of honey must be put to a pint of wa- 
ter, and tlie honey well dissolved. Thn 
mixture is tlien exposed to the gi'eatest heat 
of the sun, without closing wholly the bung- 
hole of the cask, which must be merely cover- 
ed with coai-se Jinen« to prevent the admission 
of insects. In alwot six weeks, the liquor 
becomes acid, and changes to a very strong 
vinegar, and of excellent quality. 

VINEGAR, HORSERADISH. Horse- 
radish is in highest perfection about Novem- 
ber. Pour a quart of best vinegar on three 
ounces of scraped horseradii^h, an ounce of 
minced eschalot, and one drachm of cay- 
enne; let it stand a week, and von will have 
an excellent relish for cold foee^, ralade, &c. 
costing scarcely any thing. A portion of 
black pepper and mustard, celery or cress- 
seed, may be added to the above. 

VINEGAR, RASPBERRY. The best 
way to make this, is to pr>ar three pints of 
the best white wine vinegar on a pint and a 
half of firesh-gathered red raspl:erri^ in. a 
stone jar, or china bowl (neitlier glazed 
earthenware, nor any metallic vessel, must 
be used ; ) the next day strain the liquor over 
a like q-iantity of fresh raspberries; and the 
day following do the same. Then dram off 



VOL 



242 



WAF 



Ote liquor without pressing, and pass it 
through a jelly-bag (previously wetted witli 
|>lain vinesar) into a stone jar, witli a pound 
of pounded lump sugar to each pint. When 
Che sugar is dissolved, stir it up, cover down 
(he jar, and set it in a saucepan of water, 
and keep boiling for an hour, taking off die 
■cum; add to each pint a glass of brandy, 
jMid Iwttle it: mixed in about eight parts of 
tnrater, it is a very refreshing and delightful 
summer driuk. An excellent cooling bever- 
age to assuage tiiirst in ardent fevers, colds, 
and inflammatory complaints, &c. and it 
agreeable to most palates. 

VINEGAR FOR SALADS. Take of 

(urragnn, savory, chives, esclialots, tliree 
ounces each ; a handful of the tope of mint 
and balm, all dry and pounded ; put into a 
ivide-mouthed bottle, with a gallon of best 
vinegar ; cork it close, set it in tiie sun, and 
iu a fortni^rlit strain off, and squeeze tlie 
bci'bs; let it stand a day to settle, and then 
•train It through a filtering bag. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (1) Cut some cold 
turkev or veal into small thin slices, season 
•t with dried I»non-peel grated, pepper, 
pfNinded mace, and salt ; adkJ one anchovy, 
some garlic and onion pounded, also a little 
good gravy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 
one of white wine, and an oimce of butter 
rolled in flour ; then make it (]|uite hot, but 
do not allow it to boil, and eerve it in the 
prepared vol-au-vent. The gravy may be 
made with the bones, or a litile cream, and 
the beaten yolk of an ^g may be substituted 
lor tlie cream. 

VOL-AU-YENT. (2) In opening tlie 
oystei's, se^iarate tiiem fram the liquor, which 
must be strained ; take off the beards, and 
add to them tlie liquor, together witli some 
white stock, a bit of butter rnlled in flour, 
two or tliree blades of mace, a bit of lemon- 
fieel, pepper, and salt ; simmer tliem for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and a little before putting 
(hem into tlie vol-au-vent, pick out tlie lemon- 
|)eel, add a table-spoonful of white wine, and 
((ii«ie of good cream, and make it quite liot. 
To make oyster patties, wlien tliey are to be 
tearded, cut them into three or four bits, 
aud prepare them in tlie same manner. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (3) RoHoff tait paste, 
(ill about the eighth of an inch thick: then, 
witli a tin cutler made for tliat pirpose 
(about the size of the bottom of the oish you 
intend sending to table,) cut out tlie shape, 
and lay it on a bakins-plate with paper; 
rub it over with yolk of egg; roll out good 
puff paste an inch tliick, stamp it witli tlie 
same cutter, and lay it on the tart paste; 
then take a cutter two sizes smaller and 



press it in the centre nearly through t]ie puff 
paste; rub tlie top witli yolk or eg^, and 
bake it in a quick oven about twenty mitiiila, 
of a light brown color: wlien done, takeout 
tlie (Kiste inside tlie centre mark, prespniog 
tlie tup, put it on a dish in a warm plnce, 
and wlien wanted, fill it witli a white frica* 
see of chicken, rabbit, i-agout of sweetbread, 
or any other entree you wish. 

VOLDRON. Melt eleven ounces of fresli 
butter in a brass pan, and when quite hot, 
add the same quantity of pounded loaf aigar, 
and eight well-beaten eggs; stir coottaadj 
for six or eight minutes, and put it into s 
dish ; the following day, mix with it a wine 
glass of orange-flower water; of citron, 
orange, and lemon-|)eel, cut fine, half a 
pcjund ; butter a pudding dish, and lay into 
tlie bottom a sheet of white paper buttered, 
tlien put in tlie voldrun, and bake it for 
twenty minutes; turn it out, ornomeot it 
with cut citron and orang&^eel, and Mnc 
it in a silver or glass dish. 



WAFERS. Take a pint of good cream, 
half a pound of sifted flour, Imlf a txwnd of 
powder sugar, and two drachms of orange- 
flower water. Beat the cream with the 
tlour, a little at a lime, until botli are mixed 
peifectly smooth and free fi-om kiui|», diea 
add the oilier articles; and as much more 
a-eam as will make tlie paste nearhr u thia 
as milk ;■ make the iroik hot, dip a feather ia 
some melted butter, and nib the iroa over 
with it; put on tlie iron about a spoosfid 
and a half of the paste, press them a little 
gently, and place the iron oo a stove; opea 
die iron a little frequentlv> to see if it be 
done ; when one side is baked, turn tlie iron, 
and do tlie other. The wafet:s should ob^ 
be lightly colored. Take tliem Itub i^ 
mould carefully with a kuifc. 

WAFERS, GERMAN. Take «*»; 
teen ounces of sifted flour, and half a piflt » 
good yeast, which make into a paalc, wrt" 
as much warm milk as will make it vmwon 
the spoon fi^y, without being loo dBJfJ 
tlien put it inlo'a warm plac«. When ill* 
risen well, add to it the^olks of fijurieea 
eggs well beaten, the whites whipped to a 
snow, and the grated rind of two ienw* 
The wliole being well mixed, pour oitf « 
seventeen ounces of fi-esh butter '''*'**^» }"[ 
not too hot; stir it gently widi a wooden 
spoon, and fnit tlie preparation again wtoa 
warm pkice to risif a second time; f'*? 
has risen sulficieiitly, and your pan (fiitevtf 
rub the latter with butler, fill it »i^ *■ 



WiAJfc 



243 



WAL 



punm, aet it over a brisk fire, and fry your 
wafera; make both sides equally browo; 
when done, sprinkle them with powder sugar 
(^iid cinnamon, if you like), and serve tliem 
hot. Be Ciurefiil in taking out the paste to 
fill the pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the 
spoon into the preparation, when not using 
it; the upper part of tlie paste should be 
taken off very gently, and tlie spoon laid 
acnwB the top of the vessel ; if these precau- 
tions be not attended to, the good appear- 
ance of the wafers will be destroyed. 

>VAFEBS, ITALIAN. Take eight 
eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a 
potfnd of flour, six ounces of cream, die same 
of milk, an ounce of orange flowei-s, and the 
rind of a lemon grated. Beat die eggs with 
the sugar and flour flrsi ; then add tlie cream, 
milk, and other materials, by degrees; mix 
them well, and take care there are not tlie 
slightest lumpsr Make the wafers as di- 
rected.- 

WALNUTS. Make a brine of saU and 
water, in the proportion of a quarter of a 
pound of salt to a quart of water ; put die 
walnute into this to soak for a week ; or if 
Tou wish to soften tiiem so that Uiey may 
be soon ready for eating, run a larding 
pin through diem in half a dozen places — 
this will allow die pickle to penetrate, and 
they will be much sulW, and of better fla- 
vor, and ready much sooner than if not per- 
Ibrated: put them into a stewpau with such 
brine, and give diem a gentle simmer ; put 
them on a sieve to drain; then lay them on 
a fidh plate, and let them stand in the air till 
they turn black — this may take a couple of 
days ; put them into glass, or unglazed stone 
jsus; flll Uiese about three parts with die 
walnuts, and flU them up with the following 
pickle. 

To each qimrt of the strongest vinegar put 
two ounces of black pepper, one of ginger, 
saoie of eschalots, same of salt, half an ounce 
of allsfiice, and lialf a drachm of cayenne. 
Put these into a stone jar ; cover it with a 
bladder, wetted with pickle, tie over that 
some k^dier, and set the jar on a trivet by 
the side of the fire for three days, shaking it 
op tliree times a day, a:nd then pour it while 
hoi to die walnuts, and cover them down witii 
bladder wetted with the pickle, leadier, &c. 

WALNUTS AND BUTTERNUTS. 
Gadier them for pickling when the head of 
a pin will pierce them easily ; rtm a large 
needle through them here and there, or score 
tfiein on one side with a knife; lay them 
mto a brine of salt-and-water for twelve 
days, changing tlie brine twice in that time; 
strain, and put them into a jar, and sprinkle 
a little salt over tbfem. Boil four quarts of 



vinegar for a hundred wabiutSt alk>wing to 
each quart one ounce of whole pepper, and ^ 
one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced^' 
nutmeg and wliole allspice, a table-«poonfui^' 
of mustard seed, and one of scraped hora^ 
radish, one head of garlic, or a small onion; 
pour it boiling hot over the nuts, and put a 
plate on die jar; when cold, tie it closely 
down. Ader the nuts are used, the liquor ' 
may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to use 
as a pickle. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (1) Thorough- 
ly well bruise one hundred and twenty young 
walnuts; put to them three quarters of a 
pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vin- 
egar; stir tliem every day for a fortnight; 
then strain and squeeze the liquor from went 
through a cloth, and set it aside ; put to the 
husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand 
all night; then strain and squeeze tliem as 
before, adding tlie liquor which is obtained 
from tliem to what was put aside the preced- 
ing day, and add to it one ounce and a 
quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, 
half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, 
half an ounce of ginger, and five drachms of 
mace, and boil it for half an hour; diea 
straio it off from the spices, and bottle it for 
u^e. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (2) Take six 
half-sieves of green walnut-shells, put tlieni 
into a tub, mix them up well with common 
salt, (from two to diree pounds,) let tliem 
stand for six davs, frequendy bating and 
mashing them; by this time the shells be- 
come soft and pulpy ; then by banking it up 
on one side of the tub, and at the same time 
by raising the tub on that side, the liciuor 
will drain clear off to the other; then take 
diat liquor out: die mashing and binkin^- 
up may be repeated as often as liquor m 
found. The quantity will be about six 
quarts. Wlien done, let it be simmered in 
an iron boiler as long as any scum arises; 
then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a 
quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of 
long pepper, two ounces of cloves, with the 
above ingredients ; let it slowly boil for half 
an hour; when bottled, let an equal quantity 
of the spice so into each bottle ; when cork- 
ed, let die bottles be filled quite up: cork 
them tight, seal diem over, and put them 
into a cool and dry place for one year before 
they are used. 

WALNUT KETCHUP, FOR FISH 
SAUCE. Take a quart of wakiut pickle, 
add to it a quaiter of a poimd of anchovies 
and three-quarters of a pint of red Port, and 
let it boil till reduced to one-third; then 
strain it, and when cold, put it into small 
bottles, aud keep diem closely corked. 



W£L 



244 



WHl 



WALNUT PICKLE. Put any qnanti- 
tf of the outside shells or green rinds of 
npe walnuts into a tub in which there is a 
tap-hole; sfn-inkle them with water, raise 
the tub on one side, that it may stand in a 
sbping direction, place another vessel under 
it to receive tlie juice as it drops from tlie 
Cap-hole; this it will soon begin to do; and, 
when a sufficient quantity has been obtained, 
to one gallon of this black liquor add two 
large table-spoondils of salt, one large onion, 
a «tick of horseradisli, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two bay leaves, a quarter of an ounce 
of black pepper, the same of allspice and of 
bruised ginger. Boil it sbwly for twenty 
minutes; strain it, and, when cold, stir it 
and botile it for wse, putting tlie spice into 
the bottles. 

WALNUTS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
the nutfl l>efore the mside shell is Imrd, which 
may be known by trying theui witii a pin; 
lay them into salt and water nine days, 
changing tlie IiqtK>r every three days; tlien 
take tliem out, and dry lliena in the air on a 
sieve or mat; they should not touch each 
other, dnd tliey should be turned, that every 
side may become black alike; llicn put 
them into a jar. When half the nuts are 
ill, put in an oiiion, with about thirty cloves 
stuck into it. and add the rest of the nuts. 
7^0 one hundred walnuts allow half a pint 
of mustard seed, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, lialf an ounce of peppercorns, and 
•ixty bay leaves; boil all (he spice in some 
good common vinegar, and pour it boiling 
upon the nuti«, observing that tliey are en- 
tirely covered; stop the moiith of the jar 
widi a cloth, and wlien cold, cover it with 
bladder or leatiier. In about six weeks 
they will Ije fit for use, when they should l)e 
examined, and if they have ab8(;rbed tlie 
vinegar so much as to leave any of the nuts 
dr)', more should be added, but it need not 
be lx)iled. 

WATER SOUCIIY. Blake a stock 
with three or four flounders, boiled in three 
quarts of water, two onions, and a bunch of 
parsley, till they are S(jfl enough to pulp 
through a sieve with tlie liquor they were 
boiled in ; then season it with pepper, salt, 
and some parsley chopped, and boil iu it a 
few flounders, with the brown skin taken 
off, some nicely cleaned perch or tench. 
Serve in a tureen, and with slices of bread 
and butter to eat with it. 

WELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off 
a dice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in 
two, butler it, and lay upon each half a thin 
slice of cheese which has been toasted in a 
'Dutch oven ; if, when put upon the toast, it 
18 not sufficiently browned, hold a salaman- 



der, or hot aborei, over Ibe top. Sent il 
verybot. 

WHEY. (1) Make a pint of milk bml; 
pat to it a glass or two of white wine ; pot it 
on the fire till it just boils again; then set it oa 
one side till the curd has settled ; poor off 
the clear wliey, and sweeten it as you like. 

Cider is oflten substitoted for wine, or 
half tlie quantity of vinegar that we baie 
ordered wine. When there is no fire in 
the sick room, this may be put hot into • 
bottle, and laid between the bed and mat- 
tress; it will keep warm several houTB. 

WHEY. (2) Putave^smattpoitioQ 
of rennet into a quart pf milk, ana let it 
stand by tiie side of the fire until turned; 
then serve it in a dish, with sugar uid a 
little nutmeg, grated, and strewed 0Ter,«r 
strain tlie liquor carefiilly firom the curd, 
and serve quite clear. 

WHEY, WHITE WINE. Boil a 
pint of milk, and when it rises in the pan, 
pour in one ghiss of sherry and one of cur- 
i-ant wine ; let it again boil up, take it off 
the fire, and, when it has stood a few min- 
utes, remove the curd, poor off the eleir 
wliey, and sut-eten it. 

WHIM WHAM. Sweeten a quart rf 
cream, and mix with it a tea-cupfiilnf frhite 
wine, and the grated peel of a lemon ; whisk 
it to a froth, which drain upon thebickofa 
sieve, and put part into a deep glass disfa; 
cut some Naples biscuit as thin as possible, 
and put a layer lightly over the fi"olh,and 
one of red currant jellv, then a layer of the 
fi-oth, and one of the biscuit and jellv; i^ 
with the froth, and pour the reroaimfer of d" 
cream into the dish^ and garnidi with citrao 
and candied orange-peel cut into straws. 

WHITE BEET, LEAVES. Pick wd 
wash them clean, put tliem on in boiling 
water with a little salt, cover the suucepas, 
and boil tliem longer than spinach ; drain off 
the water, and bc^t tliem as spinadi, with a 
bit of butter and a little salL 

WHITINGS. In choosing whitmp, he 
careful that the skin has a silvery appear- 
ance, that the body is firm, and die to 
stiff; tliese are sure proo& of its fjto- 
ness. 

WHITINGS, ENGLISH WAY. P« 

into a saucepan two spoonfuls of oil, nXt 
lemon sliced (the pips and rind taken oft), 
salt, and pepper, two glasses ol" white wiaj^ 
tlie same of water, and let them boil nearly 
a quaiter of an hour; then pnt the whitings 
properly cleaned, cook them in the aboiai 



WHI 

btoch a clove of garlic, and beat it with 
tbe back of a knife, put it with parsley, 
rimHolB, and two elanes of champngne, into 
astewpan ; let it boil live minutes, then add 
aCHiie butter, rolled in flour, salt, and peppor ; 
■dr it over the fire tilt smooth, then serve. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (1) Take as many 
whiting as you may require; cleanse, scale, 
uid wipe them dry ; then run them through 
Ibe eyes widi a skewer, soak them well m 
milk; flour, and fry them of a nice cobr. 
Serve them on a napkin. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (2) Skin them, 
preserve the liver, and fasten their tails to 
their Doouths; dip them in egg, then in 
brrad-crombs, and fry them in hot brd, or 
q>lit them, and fry them like fillets of soles. 
A threeH}uart stewpan, half fiill of fat, is the 
best utensil to fi-y whitings. They will be 
done enoo^ in about five minutes; but it 
will sometimes require a quarter of an hour, 
to drain the fat from them and dry them (if 
the fat you put them into was not hot enough), 
tDi*ning tbem now and tlien with a fish- 
slice. 

WHITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make 
a rich gravy with a bit of veal, the lieads and 
fins of four or five haddocks, three or four 
onions, some parsley, a little cayenne, black 
pepper and salt, tKe juice of a lemon, half 
the peel, a table-«poonl'ul of ketchup, half a 
pint of white wine, and two quarts of water ; 
simmer them for an hour, strain, and put to 
it the meat of a lobster or crab minced, and 
forcemeat balls; thicken it with half a pint 
of cream, tbe yolks of three e^^gs beaten, and 
a pint of butler kneaded iu flour. Have 
ready boiled three haddocks skinned and 
without their heads, pour the sauce over 
them in a deep dish. Make the forcemeat 
balls of a small boiled haddock finely minc- 
ed, grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, 
salt, grated nutmeg, and parsley ; bind them 
with die whites of two eggs beaten, and firy 
diem in fresh lard of a light brown. 

WHITE POT. Beat op the yolks of 
eight, and the whites of four eggs, with two 
quiirts of new milk, a little ruse water, a 
nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar; cut a small roll into very thiii 
slices, lay them in a dish, and pour the 
milk, &c. over them; put u bit of butter on 
the top, and set it in the oven; it will take 
half an hour baking. 

WHITE ROUX, or frkUe TkiekeHing 
for Saueei and Made Dishes. Melt 
gradually, over a <low fire, a giKxl piece of 
butter, and dredge in a sufficiency of flour to 
make it like a thia paste; keep stirring it 
21* 



WOO 

for a quarter of an hoar, and tkn poK it mm 
a small jar to be kept fat use. 

WHITE SAUCE. Set BeehameL 

WIDGEONS AND TEAL, AradraMNi 
exactly as the wiU duck; only that less tima 
is reuoisite ibr a widgeon, and still lam for 

WILD DUCKS. For roaming a wiki 
duck, you must have a clear, brisk fire, an4 
a hot spit ; it roost be brawnsd upon the out- 
side, without being sodden within. To have 
it vrell frothed and full of gravy is the nicety. 
Prepare tlie fire bv stirrinc and raking *i| 
just before the bird is laid down, and fiiteea 
or twenty minutes will do it in tbe fosbioii* 
able way; but if you like it a little more 
done, allow it a few minutes kmger; if it ii 
too mucli, it will lose its flavor. 

WINE ^MADEIRA) SAUCE. Take a 

tea-spooniul of floor, and a preserved green 
lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass 
of Madeira wine, and a little consoaMM, 
add an ounce of butter, some salt and nut- 
meg ; set these on a very hot stove to boil 
for a quarter of an hour; then take it oif, 
put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it 
again on the ^, stirring oonstantly tiU tht 
butter is melted. 



WINTER HOTCH-POTCH. Taka 
the best end of a neck or loin of routtoo; 
cut it intoneal chops; cut four carrots, and 
as many turnips into slices; put oo fijur 
quarts of water, with half the carrots and 
turnips, and a whole one of each, with a 
pound o( dried |[reen peas, which must be 
put to soak the night before; let it boil two 
hoora, then take oat the whole carrot and 
turnip ; bruise and return them ; put ia the 
meat, and tlie rest of the carrot and turnip, 
some pepper and salt, and boil sfowly three- 
quarters of an hour; a short time before 
serving, add an onion cut small and a heaud 
of celery. 

WOODCOCKS. (1) The vraatsst 
possible care should be taken, in picking of 
these birds, to handle them as little as pos- 
sible, on account of tbe skin being so par- 
ticularly tMider, that when broken it q»ils 
the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut 
oflf the pinions at the first joint, press the 
legs close to the side, throoah wbirk, and 
tlie body, pierce the Ijeak of ike bird; iheo 
cross me leet, and by a slice of iaeon oiir 
the breast. Woodcocks and anipes av^ ba 
dressed according to the same rules. 

WOODCOCKS. (2) Take a pvad 
of lean beef, cut it into pieces, ind fok it 



woo 



246 



TEA 



D, with two qiarts of waier, 
an ooion afuck with cloves, two blades of 
maoe, and aome whole pepper, boil all these 
tf^etber till reduced to half; then strain it 
off into another saucepan : draw the wood- 
oocks, and lay the trail in a pkite; put the 
woodcocks into the ^vy, and let tliera boil 
in it for twelve minutes; while they are 
boiling, mince the trail and liver very small ; 
put them into a small s:iucepan, with a lit- 
tle maoe; add lour or five spoonfuls of the 
gravy the woodcocks are boiled in; then 
lake the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine 
into a dish placed before the fire, and put to 
the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint 
•f red port, a bit of butter, rolled in fiour, 
set it on the fire, and shake it round till the 
butter is melted; then put in the bread- 
cnimhs, and shake the saucepan round ; lay 
the woodcocks in tlie dish, poor the sauce 
over them, and serve. 

WOODGOCKS. (8) Woodcocks should 
not be drawn, as the trail is by the lovers 
of " kaui gout** considered a " bonne 
bouehe;** truss their legs close to the bodv, 
and run an iron skewer through each thigh, 
close to the body, and tie them on a small 
bird spit; put them to roast at a clear fire; 
cut as many slices of bread as you have 
birds, toast or fry them a delicate brown, 
and lay them in the dripping-pan uuder tlie 
birds to catch the trail; ^te them widi 
butter, and firoth them with fiour ; lay the 
toast bo a hot dish, and tlie birds on the 
toast; pour some good beef gravy into the 
dwh, and send some up in a txiat, twenty or 
thirty minutes will roast them. Garnish 
with slices of lemon. Some epicures like 
this bird very much under^dooe, and direct 
that a woodcock should be just introduced 
to the cook, fi>r her to show it the fire, and 
then send it up to table. 

WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put 
a brace of woodcocks into a fryingpan, 
with some butter, shred shallots, grated 
nutmeg, ifelt, and pepper; set the pan da a 
fierce fire, and (rf the woodcocks lightly for 
Eeven or eight minutes; then add we juice 
of two lemons, half a glass of while wine, 
and aome raspings ; aiM leave them on the 
fire till the sauce has boiled up once; then 
■erve altogether. 

WOODCOCK SALMIS. Cut up the 
woodcock on the table, and put the pieces 
oo a dish, which i^aoe on a stand, with a 
lamp under it; add pepper, salt, shred shal- 
■ felp, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice 
of three lemons, and a bit of butter; strew 
raspings over, and boil slowly for ten min- 
■lei, stirring occasionally. Use spirits of 
wiB9 fiir your lamp. 



WOODCOCK SAUCE. Poand the 
bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and 
put them into a stewpan, with two spoon- 
fuls of cullis, and two spoonfuls of red port; 
reduce it to (be consistence of a sauce, and 
then strain it ; when strained, add pq)per, 
salt, and the juice of two oranges. 



Y. 

YEAST. Beer yeast, which is the best 
for bread, sIkniM be strained throng a hair 
sieve, and two or three (|uarts of ookl sprii^ 
water poured over it; when it has stood for 
twenty-four hours the water should be poured 
oflf, the yeast will then be found at the oottom 
of the vessel, quite thick. To inneserve that 
which may be left over tlie baking, it diould 
be put into a bottle, corked tigiitly, and kept 
in a cool place. In cold weather it will 
continue good for a foitnight, but fi'esh yeast 
is always preferable. When k does not ap- 
pear sufficiently strong, honey or brown siigar 
may be mixed with it, in the proportion of a 
tea-spoonful to lialf a pint. 



YEAST, BAKER'S. Boil two . 
of bops in ibur quarts of water one hour, 
adding more water as it decreaaes, carefuUj 
stiiring it aN the time, and takins care that 
it do not boil over; strain the lK|uar, and 
mix well with it two pounds ol* malt; cover 
it, and let it stand for eiglit hours, or until it 
be milk warm, then stir in half a pint of 
l^ood yeast; when mixed well together, let 
It work for ten hours, and then Mraia it 
through a hair sieve. 



YEAST, BRAN. Boil for ten i 
in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and 
a small handful of good hope; strain it 
through a sieve, and when miLk warm, add 
three or four table-spoonfiils of beer yesst, 
and two of brown sugar or treacle: put it 
into a wooden stoup or jug ; cover it, and 
place it before the nre to ferment. It may 
oe bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a con 
place. 

YEAST DUMPLINGS. Hakeaverr 

light dough with yeast, the same as for breati, 
but with milk instead of water, add sah; 
set it by the fire, coveted up in a pan, for 
half an hour, or an hour, to rise ; in the mesa 
tiii;e, set on the fire a lai-ge saucepan of hot 
water, and as soon as it boils, roll up dis 
dough into small balls, and put them into the 
boihng water; keep them continually boiliitg 
for ten minutes, then take them out, smd servs 
them immediately, with wine aauce over 
them. To ascertain whether tfaey are iuft- 



Y£A 



247 



Z£S 



ciently boiled, rtick • fork into one, and if it 
eoines out clean, it is done enough. Some 
think tlie best manner of eating them is by 
dividing them ft-om the top by two forks, as 
they become heavy by their own steam, and 
eat them immediately with meat, or sugar 
and butter, or salt. 

YELLOW GLAZE. Make a gbue, 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in 
powder, the white of an eg^, to which add 
by degrees as much lemon-juioe as may be 
necessary ; when sufficiently beaten up, (and 
the bnger it is beaten the whiter it will be), 
add to it a small quantity of infusion of saf- 
fitMi, strained, and the yelbw rind of one or 
two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scrap- 
ed off and pounded; take care, however, 
not' to put too much of the latter, lest the 
glaxe shouki be bitter. 

YEAST, TO MAKE. Boil for half an 
bonr two quarts of water, thickened with 
•Ixmt three spoonfuls of fine fiour, and 
sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown 
sugar; when almost cold, put it into a jug, 
adding (bnr spoonfuk of fresh yeast ; shake 
it weO together, let it sland uncovered near 
dwfireforaday,tofecment. There will be 



a thin Itr^nor on the top, pour this off; riiak« 
the remainder, and cork it up for use. To 
make a half peck kmf you fehould use a quar^ 
ter of a pint of the above. 

YEAST, POTATO. Boil mine good 
mealy potatoes ; peel and weij|[h them ; while 
hot, bniise them finely, and mix them qnioklj 
with boilinff water, allowing one quart to 
each pound; nib it through a liair sieve, 
then add honey or brown sugar in the pro- 
portion of one ounce to each quart of water ; 
boil it to the consistency of batter, and when 
nearly cold, add a large table-spoonfijl of 
good yeast to every (^uart of water; cover it 
with a cloth to rise, and the following day it 
will be ready for use; keep a bottle of it, 
which may tie used instead of beer yeast for 
the next making, first pouring off the thin 
liquid that is on the top. It must be made 
with firesh beer yeast evei^ two or three 
months. Double the quanuty of thb, as of 
beer yeast, is required to make bread 
light. 

ZESTS. Zest (a term of art, used fay 
confectioners) is the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or citrons, cut from top to bottom, io mall 
slips or lests, as thin i 



CONFECTIONERY. 



ALM 

ALMONDS, BLOWN. Scald a few al- 
monds, and pound them to about half as fine 
as (fir bi^cuittf, beat them with lemon-juice, 
whites of eggs and powder-sugar; di-op 
ibem on paper, about tlie size of almonds, 
and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. 

ALMONDS BLOWN ROYAL. 

Clioofte four ounces of smali thick almonds, 
and put them into an oven until they are 
slightly colored. Whils't they are cooling, 
mix four ounces of sugar with an egg; 
beat them up for ten minutes; add a little 
carmine to make it a Hne rose color; dip 
the almonds into this: t;ike them out; dis- 
engage theiu fmm the egg^ so that they may 
be only just covered with it; lay them two 
, and two on a sheet of strong paper tliree- 
quarters of an inch between each pair; 
they ma^ also be placed in threes to form 
the tre-/oil, on which may be added a fouitli. 
Bake tliem in a cool oven. 

ALMOND BUTTER. To a quarter 
of a pound of blanched alinoiids, well beat, 
put some new milk and rose water; take 
a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of 
twelve eggs bent well with a little of the 
cream ; then add the rest of the cream ; put 
a quarter of a pint of new milk to the al- 
monds, and stiain them into the cream till 
there is no rtrength left ; strain all togtnh- 
er into a skillet, set it over a charcoal fire, 
and stir it till it comes to a tender curd; 
put it into a strainer, and luing it up till the 
whey is drained out; then take six ounces 
of fine sifted sugar and a Utile rose water, 
and beat it all into butter with a spoon. 

ALMOND BITTER CAKE. Pound 
three ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of 
alinonds, put them into an earthen pan with 
8ix ounces of powder sugar; the same of 
rifled flour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain or two of 
salt ; work these up together for five min- 
utes and then add six ounces of fresh but- 
ter which is slightly warmed, work that in 
(or four minutes longer. Then, having 
^yliipped the whites of two eggs, mix tliem 
into the paste. Butter a well-tinned copper 



ALM 

mould or paper case, ten inches long, fira 
wide, and two hi^h; pour in your prepara- 
tion, and bake it m a cool oven. While bak- 
ing, whip the whites of two e^, and mix 
two ounces of |X)wder stigar with them, and 
cut foiu' otuices of sweet almonds into slipa 
(shortwise ; ) mix tliem also with two ounces 
of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of 
egg whipped. In tbree-<iuarterH of an hour 
take out the cake, and if it lie firm and wel| 
colored, cover it with the whipped egg and 
sugar, and on that strew the almonds equal- 
ly, pressing them in, that all may lie colored 
alike. This o{)ei-ation must Ije performed aa 
quick as post/lble, and wlien done, turn the 
cake out and cut it in four slips (length- 
wise,) and then divide each into six parts 
tozenge-shaped ; this will give you twenty- 
four cakes, which must l)e arranged in stars 
on your dish, six to every star. Th^r 
may also be cut in two lengths instead of 
four, and these divided into fifteen small 
pieces, and tiien, with a paste-cutter, form- 
ed into descents. The ingredients, and the 
proi)er quantities for tliiscake are as follows: 
— BIX ounces of flour, the same of powder 
sug}U', thi-ee ounces of sweet and bitter al- 
monds, six yolks, and two whole eggs, six 
ounces of butter, two of sugar mixed with 
the whites of two eggs whip})ed, tour ounces 
of cut almonds added to the sugar and eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 

ALMOND CANDY. Blanch a pound 
of the best almonds, and cut them A-ery 
til in, lengthways, put them into a pound of 
clarified sugar to crisp them, stir tliem over 
the fire tiU lioiled to souffle; then take 
them off and keep stirring till the sugar is 
dry like sand: thou sil\ it, so that the al- 
monds may be left, divide them into four 
parts to color tiiem difierently, one part 
red, the seox>nd yellow, the third green, and 
the fourth left white as they con'ie from the 
sugnr. To color die first, soak a small 
quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and 
lay your almonds in it ; do the same with a 
little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and 
spinach juice for the ^reen. Place the col- 
ored almonds on a sieve in a stove; wlioi 
dry, mix all together^ adding the wbitt 



ALM 



352 



ALM 



OOM. Boil nearly u imich sogar as your 
mould wiU require to taujffU, put it in, and 
when the aInDonds are quite dry, garnish tlie 
eur&oe of the sugar with tliem; do not, 
however, lay them too thick, and just preaB 
them dowiKwith a fork; put the mould in- 
to a moderate oven for five hours, then drain 
it well, and in another two houn it may be 
taken firom the mould. 

ALMONDS CINNAMON SPANISH. 

Blanch your almoads^ then with a bit of 
butter tied in a piece of clotli, rub the pan 
and brown them. Have ready eome clari- 
fied sugar, with powdered cinnamon stirred 
in it, piit in the ulmonds, and when well cov- 
ered with the sugar and cinnamon, lay them 
■eparately on tins, and dry in a slow oven. 

ALMONDS TO COLOR. Almonds 
B.OSE COLORED. Blanch and cut sweet 
almonds in small pieces, put them on a bak- 
ing plate, and pour on them a little of any 
i«getable liquid, of an infusion of cochineal, 
or carmine ; then rub them in your hands, 
to mix them well with the color; when all 
are so done, diy them in a stove or in the 



ALMONDS VIOLET. Are done in the 
same way, the coloring ingredients arei 
cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in 
water, put but a small quantity of the latter 
at a time as it is very powerful. 

ALMONDS GREEN. Tlie same pn>- 
eeedtng: the cok>r is made with two hand- 
ibis of firesli spinach, well washed, drained, 
and then pounded; when very fine, press it 
through a napkin; let the juice drop on a 
dish, which place on a hot stove; as soon as 
it begins to boil, take it off, stining it con- 
stantly, till the sreen curdles, then pour it 
through a horsehair sieve, and when well 
drained strain it throtu[h a silk sieve or tam- 
my ; the juice tlius obtained, will give the 
almonds (which must be put in a tew at a 
time) a clear and even green color. 

ALMONDS BLUE. Dissolve a little in- 
digo in water, strain it through a cloth and 
u^e it as above mentioned. 

ALMONDS ORANGE COLORED. 

Mix a little liquid red, and a little infusion 
of saffron together, and proceed with the al- 
nionds as usual. 

ALMONDS LEMON COLORED. 

Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly 
bp'iing water for a few minutes; strain and 
fcjlpw the above direction. 

ALMONDS CHOCOLATE COLOR- 



ED. Are dyed with cbocohte dismlved in 
water and strained. 

The almonds may be cut in slips, dice, 
&c. according to foncy. Observe that tbr 
color of your aliooncb should be light and 
delicate; when done, place them, either 
separately or mixed together, in paper | 



ALMOND COUPEAUX. Bhnchasd 
pound half a pound of sweet almonds with 
the whites of three egg^ into a very fins 
paste, add to it six ounces of powdered an- 
gar and the rind of a lemon grated; when 
thorouj|[hly mixed together, pour over it 
about lour spoonfols of orange-flower water: 
stii up the paste (which on^t to be rather 
thin,) once more, and then lay it with a 
spoon on a plale of briglit copper, io an 
oval form, about three or four inches in 
leiurth. The plate being quite fiill, take it 
up cnr lioth hands, and strike it steadily tipoo 
a table, so that the paste may be extended, 
but not much ; then bake them until they be- 
come of a deep yelfow. Take them from 
the copper with a knifo, and whilst hot pot 
them on a wooden roller, about the thick- 
ness of an arm, and press them with voor 
hand, that they may acquire the form of the 
wood, and when cool place in a box, and 
keep them dry. These coupeaux are very 
brittle. 

ALMONDS CnilSPED. Rob a pound 
of the best sweet almonds in a ck>th to take 
off all the dust, and then put them, with 
a pound of nigar, half a glass of water and 
a little carmine, into a preserving pan; pot 
them on tlie fire, and k:t them remain; when 
the almonds crackle take them off and work 
them about until the sugar is detached from 
the aknonds, then take away part of ihe n- 
gar, put the almonds on the fire asain, and 
stir tnem lightly with a spatula, (be careful 
that the fire be not too quick;) and when 
tliev have taken tlie sugar, add diat which 
had been removed, and continue to bun 
them till tliey have imbibed that also. Pboe 
a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your al* 
monds (m it, separate those which adhere 
together, and let them cool. 

ALMOND DRAGEES. Take of die 
best and larsest almonds what quantity yvt 
please, and having washed them in cold war 
ter, let tliem drain and dry on a sieve Ibr 
twenty-four hours. Tlie next day weieh 
them, and for each pound of almonds take 
three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and 
boil it to the degree petit lisaes then let it 
cool a little. Have your tossing pan ready; 
on your right hand, n chafing dish to keep 
your pan containing the sirup constaotn 
warm; and on your left band, a table witl 



AL^ 



&5S 



lihm 



tt mixture of powder Mid fldor (oTeaeh hulf 
a poand to a pound of almonds). AH being 
ready, put the aloaonds into the pan, and 
pour oTer them one or two large tpoonfuk 
of the sirup, and shake them so that all the 
almonds ntnv be wetted with sirup; then 
take a handfiil or two of the flour and pow- 
der, and strew it over the wet ahncmds; 
Bhake them again, that the fkmr may adhere 
all round the ahnonds. After this, swing 
the pan backwards and lY)rwurds, by which 
means the almonds roll about in every direc- 
tion ; continue this motion until diey become 
dry ; then moisten and powder them as be* 
fi>re; swing the pan a^in, and when dry, 
repeat the process a third, fourth, and fifth 
time, or more, until they are of a proper 
size; then pcair over tliem tbesimu lor the 
last time, without the powder, and, having 
swung and dried them, take them out and 
place them on sieves in a warm place, that 
they may dry perfectly before you put them 
by for use. 

Observe, that after a few' layers of the 
simp, the superabundant parts of that and 
the powder form a white crust at the bottom 
of the pan ; as soon as it acquires any de- 
cree of thickness, the pan must be taken 
from the fire, the almonds carefully removed 
with an iron spatula, and the crust broken 
off; when tlie pan has been well washed and 
dried, replace the alm<md6 and proceed with 
your work. This must he strictly attended 
to, nut only with this, but in makms all 
kinds of sweetmeats. The sugar thus clear- 
ed away may be made useful for many pur- 
poses. 

Common Almond Dragees are made in 
the same manner; the only difference con- 
sists in having ingredients of an inferior 
quality. 

ALMONDS (MILK OF) FANCHON- 
NETTES. Blanch and pound eight ounces 
of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and 
when the paste is very fine, add to it three 
glasnes of nearly boiling milk, then press 
this mixttu^ through a napkin to draw out 
the miik. Put into a stewpan four yolks 
of eggs, three ounces of powder-sugar, one 
(^sifted flour, and a grain of salt, mix them 
well together, and add by degrees the al- 
mond milk, put tliis on a roodeiatci fire, stir- 
ring it constantly. Line about thirty tartlet 
moulds with thin puff paste, and put on rhera 
a little of the above preparation, and bake 
^faem in a moderate oven. When properly 
<done, take them out and let them cool. Mix 
with tlie whiles of three hard eggs, four 
canoes of powder-sugar, stir it well to soften 
the egg, and make it work easily ; put some 
of tlw remainder of your (Mrepaiation on 
each of the fanehonnettet, and cover thera 
iigfatly with the egg; put wmm white of egg 



tm the hMe of a large knife, attd witii « 
small one as quwk as possible take off se^« 
en meringtws about the sise of a filbert, 
and anange them in the form of a crown oa 
each fmehoimette} when you have done 
five or six, cover them with powderHmgur 
very equally, and then bake them in a cool 
oven. When of a reddish brown they are 
done and may be served. 

ALMOND CHEESE, BITTER. Pted, 

wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and 
one ounce of bitter almonds, pound them to 
a paste, moisteninp^ with two spoonfuls of 
water. Put them mto an earthen pan, with 
two gtasses of nearly boiling milk, in which 
eight ounces of sngar have oeen dissolved ; 
let thii stand an hour, then strain it throuffa 
a fine sieve, and put to it six draclnns of 
isinglass lukewarm ; place tlie whole in ice 
and when it begins to set, add some whipped 
cream ; pour it into a mould which has beed 
kept in ice, put it in ice again for half an 
hour, and then take the/roin4g-e from the 
mould. 



ALMOND FLUMMERY. Boil \ 
ounces of hartshorn in two quarts of ^i^ 
water; let it simmer six or seven hours tiU 
half the water is consumed ; strain it through 
a sieve ; lieat half a pound of almonds very 
fine, widi a quantity of orange-flower water; 
mix a little of the jelly and eotne fine sugar 
with it ; strain it with the rest of tlie jelly, 
stirring it till it is a little m<MPe than blood 
warm ; potv it inio basins or cups, and stick 
in almonds cut small. 

ALMOND GARLANDS. Take half 
a pound of march-pane paste, the whites of 
two or three eggs, some powdered cinnamon 
and a little flour, knead them into a paste, 
and roll them into the form of satisagps with 
your hand on die table, first strewing the 
table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; 
so that they may adhere to the sausages, 
which oi^ht to be alxiut the size of your 
finger ; thed form them into rings or gar- 
kuKls of what size you please, fixing the endi 
together with water : pkice them on paper, 
and bake them in a quick oven until they are 
of a clear brown color. 

ALMOND LITTLE CAKE, BITTER. 
Pound six drachms of bitter almonds, strain 
them through a sieve, and mix tliem in aa 
earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an 
egg, and six ounces of sugar, stir th«se with 
a siKer qxxm for a few minutes. Take 
three^uarters of a pound of puff paste, roll 
it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, 
and eut out of it thirty oval cakes two inches 
and a half long by two and a quarter wid6 
pcMoted at the ends ; put on each a quarter 



ALM 



264 



ALJC 



tfa noonfiil of the almond gbae, and widi 
the bkide of a kuife spread it equally over 
tlie flurfaoe for about the eisbtli of an inch, 
and tlien let them stand for half an hour 
before you put them into the oven, which 
must lie inocferate. If you bake them imme- 
diatelv after potting on tlie^laze, it wrinkles 
and shrivels up, which spoils their appear- 
ance, as tliey ought to be quite smooth and 
even ; the cakes also require considerable 
care in the baking; they should be slightly 
colored on the top and the lower part red- 
dish. 

ALMOND GENOESE, BITTER. 
Blanch two ounces four drachms of sweet, 
and two ounces and a half of bittei* almonds, 
pound them to a paste and then put them 
into the following preparation ; blanch and 
pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
when perfectly smooth, mix them in an earth- 
en pan with six ounces of flour, the same of 
powder-sugar, six yolks and two whole ^^, 
a. spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt.^ 
Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six 
ounces of butter slightly warmed but not 
melted ; work the butter well into the paste 
ix four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, 
or paper cases, about nine or ten incites 
■quai-e, pour in your preparation, smooth it 
with Uie blade of a knife and then put them 
to bake in a moderate oven, first strewing 
on them four ounces of sweet almonds minced 
and mixed with two ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little white of egg. When done, cut 
tliem into all possible forms, tlien replace 
diem in the oven to dry ; when brittle, take 
them out, let them cool, and decorate tliem 
to youi* &ncy. 

ALMOND, GRILLAGE. Blandi 
half a pound of almonds, cut them into four 
or five slips, lengthways, pralinez tliem 
witli three-eightlis of a pound of sugar, sand 
tliem wlien tliey b^in to crackle ; tlien put 
tliem on tlie fire again till diey are well mixed 
togetlier and form a mass, whidi put on 
wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it flat, strew 
over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or while 
nonpareils, and then cut it in pieces. 

ALMOND KNOTS. Take two pounds 
of almonds, and blanch tlicm in hot water ; 
beat them in a mortar, to a very fine paste, 
witli roee water, lie careful to keep them from 
oiling. Take a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out 
some to make up tlie knots, put tlie rest in 
a pan upon tlie fire, till it is scalding hot, at 
the same time liave the almonds scalding 
hot ill anotlier pan ; tlien mix diem together 
with the whites of tliree eggH beaten to froth, 
«id let it stand until it is cold ; then roll it 
witli some of die sugar left out for diat 



piirpoie, and lay them io plattera of ptpau 
Th^ will not i-oil into shstpe, therefore lay 
them as well as may be, and bake them is 
a slow oven. 

ALMOND MILK. Take six ounces of 
sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four 
draclims of orange-flower water, and five 
ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound the 
almonds to a very smooth paste, moistening 
tliem occasionally with a few drops of milk; 
when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk 
and mix them well, and boil it till reduced 
to lialf, then let it boil up once more ; let 
it cool and serve. 

ALMOND MIRLITONS. Blanch an 
ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter al- 
monds, and dry them in an oven ; when cold, 
pound diem with a little white <^ egg Io 
prevent their oiling ; then put them into as 
earthen pan with two ounces of bitter maca- 
roons, five ounces of powder-ei^r, four whole 
eggs, and a grain of salt ; when these are 
well mixed together, add two .ounces of butter, 
kikew^rm. Make a proper quanUty of puff 
paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into thirty 
itHmd pieces about two inches and three- 
quarters in diameter, and put each of tlKse 
into a tartlet mould buttered ; put die mtri»- 
toru ontliis, and when all are equally foil} 
cover them wiUt powder- sugar sifted over 
diem through a tammy ; as soon as that ii 
dissolved strew more (but not such fine) pow- 
der sug^ over, and bake them in a moderatt 
oven. Serve eidier hot or cold. 

ALMOND MONCEAUX. Take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into this 
slips (lengtliways) and roast them on an iron 
until they are of a deep yellow color, india- 
ing to brown ; beat up the whites of six or 
eight eggn with a spoon in an earthen pao. 
Pour over the almondsa pound of sugar fineh 
powdered, four ouncesof candied orange peeli 
the same of candied lemon-peel, also cut itHe 
thin slips, half a spoonful ot*|x>wdered cinna- 
mon, and six or eight cloves pounded ; dux 
Uiese ingredients well in die pan, and place 
it on paper in little heaps of a pyramidal 
form, and bake Uiem in a well-heated <ma. 

ALMOND PASTE. Blanch two poondj 
of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold 
water for twelve hours, then dry them ia a 
napkin, and pound a quarter of than to a 
ver}' fine paste with a little water and lemoa- 
juice, pass than througli a sieve, and dM 
pound the remainder (lialf a pound at a tiisej 
When all are done^ mix than with a poM* 
of sifted sugar ; ph*ce diem over a gentte fc«j 
stirring it continually, until the paste wiM 
flow from die spoon ; then pour it into a 
mortar, and when it bccomea kikewanai 



ALM 



255 



ALM 



pound it again with an ounce of flum-dragon 
previoiuiy diasolved in a glaas of water and 
strained, the juice of two lemons, and a 
pound of sifted sugar* As soon as ^our paste 
18 of the proper eoiisistence, take it out and 
lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar ; 
• divide your paste into three parts, and color 
each part according to your fiincy. The 
oobring or dyes aro inade of the same 
maleiiuls as are used for almonds. 

ALMOND PASTE to keep wop, or 
even twelve monthe. Blanch and pound 
a pound of sweet alinonds, moistened occa- 
sionally with water, to pi-evenl their oiling ; 
when well beaten, add hulf a pound of fine 
powdered sugar, and mix the whole into a 
paste to use when you liave occasion. Wlien 
wanted, mix a piece about tite size of an egg 
with three gills of water, a&nd strain it through 
a napkin. 

ALMOND PRALINES, {dried, pre- 
eerved or burnt,) A pound of the best 
almonds must be washed in cold water ; 
wlien tlioroughly dry, put tlieui into a pre- 
serving pan with a pound of sugar and a pint 
and a half of water, keep tliem on the fire, 
stirring fliem continually, until tliey crackle 
and fly about, and die sugar begins to color, 
stir tliem about gently to gatlier the sugar, 
and leave them in tlie pan to dry about two 
houj-s, in a stove or any moderate heat. 

ALMONDS, RED CRISPED. Pre- 
pare tliem as above until tliey have taken 
the sugar and are ready to be taken off tlie 
fire, put the almonds upon a sieve witli a 
dish under, take the sugar that drops, and 
put it into tlie same pan, adding a little 
finesli ; refine it till it comes to tlie twelfth 
degree au ceuee, then take cochineal, cokir 
sufficient to tinge the almonds, and put them 
therein ; give diem a few turns over tlie fire 
in the sugar, and finish as at first. 

ALMOND SWEETMEATS (YEL- 
LOW.) Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, 
wash tliem in cokl water, and wlien quite diy , 
pound them with a sufficient quantity of yolks 
of eggs, into a fine but ratlier stiff paste : 
add to them a pound of powdered sugar and 
the rinds o( two lemons grated ; knead tlie 
paste well with your haiuls, first sprinkling 
the table with sugar. Form tlie paste into 
what figures you please, such as fleur-de-lis, 
trefc>il, &c. each being alx>ut the size and 
weight of a macaroon. Pluce tliem on white 
paper and on an iron plate, fry Uiem in a mo- 
derately liot stove. If Uiey aie of a deep 
yellow, tliey are sufficiently done. — Tliese 
sweetmeats may be still fuither orn:inieiited 
in tlie fiillowing manner: — Boil some sugar 
in orange-flower water to tlie degree called 
23 



grande phiwut and as soon as the tweet-' 
meats are taken from tlie stove or oven, wash 
them over with a liglit bnisli dipped in the 
simp ; this will give tliem a delirious per- 
fume, and they may then be calk^i d la 
glace. Wlien cold, take tliem fram the 
paper and put them into glasses for the table. 

ALMONDS, ROCK OF ALICAN- 
TE, SPANISH. Clarify honey, and 
stir into it as many blanched almonds as 
you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This 
makes a pretty crystaline ornament for the 
dessert ; it is also called Rock of Gibi*altar. 

ALMOND WAFERS. Take a pound 
oi sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, 
add a pound of powder-sugar, a pinch of 
orange-flowers pralin^e, put tliem into a 
basin, and moisten them with a sufficient 
quantity of whites of eggs to enable you to 
spread the paste on wafer paper with the 
blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be 
rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil) ; lay 
the preparation on as thin as possible ; chop 
some sweet almonds very small, mix tiiem 
with sugar, and strew tliem over the wafers 
and put tliem into a liot oven ; when about 
half baked, take tliem out and cut them ia 
squares ; replace them a minute in the oven, 
Isdie tliem out again, and prem them on a 
stick to give thein the proper form ; as soon 
as tliey are cold, put tliem on a sieve. Just 
liefore they are served they should be dighUy 
warmed. 

ALMOND COMPOTE, GREEN. 
Take tlie peel very carefully from your al- 
monds, and put tliein with water on the fire 
till diey are tender ; tlien take them off and 
add a little more water ; when nearly cokl 
put Uiem on tlie fire again, but do not let 
them boil ; as soon as you find tlie liead of 
a pin will penetrate easily, they are then 
sufficiently done, and may be liirown into 
cold water ; and wlien the fruit is (|uite cold, 
drain them. In tlie meantime put some 
clarified sugar on tlie fire, and when it boib 
put in the almonds ; boil tliem in the sugar 
about twenty times, tlien remove Uiem, and 
let tlie almonds stand to take die sugar : in 
alwiit two hours' time put them on the fire 
again, and boil tliein up a dozen times ; after 
which, take Uiem off, skim, and let them 
cool. Wlien quite cool drain and put the 
fruit in a eompotier. If tlie sugar shouki 
not be sufficiently done, boil as much mora 
as you may think necessary* ; squeeze in the 
juice of an omnge, boil it once again, and 
wlien nearly cokl strain it througli a cloth 
into Uie eompotier over tlie aknonds. 

ALMOND NONPAREILS, GREEN. 
Di-ain some green almonds that hav« been 



ANG 



356 



AffG 



L 



nraKrred in brandy ; dip them one by one 
IP fluear prepared au eeutS, and roll them 
io %vhite, or any other colored nonpareils, 
and dry tliem in a stove, or gentle oven. 

ALMOND (GREEN) PRESERVED, 
^jul some water into a saucepan, with two 
handfiils of bran, and when it has boiled tip 
twice, throw in some green almonds ; let 
tliem boil up once, then take tliem out with 
^skimmer, an^l rub them well in your hands 
to take off the down ; as you do this, tlirow 
them ,into cold water ; then boil them in 
water till, on prickins them, a pin easily 
enters and they shrink : then clarify stmie 
sugar, a pound to a pound of fiiiit ; boil up 
tlie simp four or five successive days, morn- 
ii^ and evening, without the fruit, which 
you leave to drain upon a sieve ; lastly, put 
Uie fruit into a pan, and when rattier more 
tlian lukewarm, pour the sirup over it ; when 
they look very green tliey are sufficiently 
done. 

ANDAYE BRANDY. An ounce of 
Imiised aniseed, an ounce of bniised corian- 
der seed, two ounces of powdered Florence 
iris, the zestes of two oranges ; put them 
with three quarts of distilled bi-andy into tlie 
alembic bain-marie ; dissolve two poiinris 
and a half of sugar in two pints and a half 
of clear rivei* water, add them to the distilled 
liqueur, pass tlie whole through a strainer, 
and put into bottles. 

ANGELICA CAKES. Take four oun- 
ces of angelica powder, and two pounds uf 
fine sugar. Beat up the white of an e^ 
with a liitle sifted sugar, until it is of die con- 
sistence of cream clieese ; dissolve ilie sugiir 
in a skillet and skim it ; when it has boiled 
a little, throw in die angelica, and boil tlie 
sugar to petit ca»$4, then take it from tlie 
fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten eg§, 
and stir it quickly until the sugar rises, tlien 
stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till 
it rises a second time ; it may now be pour- 
ed into moiikls or paper cases, well oiled and 
sprinkled with sifted sugar. 

ANGELICA (ESSENCE of) JELLY. 
Having waslied and well dried two ounces of 
angelica-roots ; cut tliem in pieces and tlirow 
thorn into boiling sirup, (three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised 
angelica weds ; cover the mixture close, and 
when cold, add to it half a glass of kineh- 
wa»»er, and pass it through a tammy ; then 
filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of 
isinglass : stir it lightly with a silver spoon ; 
pound ten pounds of ice, and put it into a 
brge sieve or pan, place your mould in the 
middle of the ice, taking cmie that it touches 
thft i<»i ia every part ; pour the jelly into the 



mould, cover it with a saucepan lid, pot ies 
on that, and let it stand for three liours; after 
that time have ready a stiucepan large enmigh 
to take in the mould easily ; fill it witli water 
so warm tliat you can scarcely bear your band 
in it ; plunge tlie mould in so as to atbnv ihfl 
water to paaa over the whole, but as quickly 
as possible, nnd tlien turn the jelly into your 
disli for table. This hist operation should 
be performed with great agility. OhBerve^ 
in making the»e kind of jellies, that lio linned 
or pewter vessels or spoons should be lued, 
as tliey impart a violet tinge to ymir jellies, 
which ought to be of tlie color of the ingrc 
dients employed, as for instance Uie abura 
should be a clear light green color. 

ANGELICA LIQUEUR. Waali, 
scrape, and cut in small pieces^- twelve oiincei 
of fresh, or half tlie quantity of Bohemian 
angelica roots, and infuse tliem for a week 
in six pints of brandy and one of water, witb 
a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamun, 
and twelve cloves ; at tlie end of that tiuw 
distil it, then dissolve three pounds of ingtir 
in three pints of water ; mix it with the 
Hqueur, strain it tlirough a jelly-bag, or fil* 
ter it tlMX)ugh paper. Obtien'e, diat the best 
brandy for liqueurs is that which is uiade 
at Moiitpeiier, as it yields more in distilla- 
tion than tlie Cogniac. Take notice aho 
that tlie first drops which Bill fi-om the alem- 
bic after it is placed on the stove, most not 
be mixed witli die liqueur. A glass sfaoaU, 
therefore, be placed under the mouth of tte 
alembic to receive tliem, and when aboot a 
quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and j 
place your bottles or matrass.' Thepbl^» 
as these droppings are called, are good fiir 
nothing. 

ANGELICA PASTT. Takeyoongaad 
pithy angelica stalks, boil them till twder, 
drain and press all tlie water out ; beat thai 
in a mortar to a paste, and rub it tbrougba 
sieve. Next day dry it over tlie fire, and » 
every pound of paste pot a pound of powde^ 
sugar. When the paste is hot add the 9i^> 
stirring it till thoraiighly mixed, over a gentle 
fire. Drop it on plates, dost a litde sugar 
over diem, and dry them in a stove. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED. T>ketl» 
stalks of angelica when of a giKid sm, ^ | 
before (hey htive run to seed ; clear off die 
leaves, and as yoti cut the sttilks into proper 
lengths throw tliem into wrater, and boil then 
till the stalks are soft ; take them from die 
fire, and put tliem into cold water ; take off 
the skin, and again put tliem into cold waltfi 
dien drain and put tliem into an earthen ptfW | 
and pour over a sufficient quantity of clarified j 
sugar to float the angelica. In twentv-fc« | 
hours boil the siigar teo or a doaso tifoeii 



kNt 



257 



ANl 



im) irlien luke^nrsinn pour it onir the stalks. 
Proceed in tlie same way fi>r (bur sticceediiig 
days ; after wliicli, drain tlie stalks, *and in 
the me^mwhile boil the sugar (adding more, 
if necessary) to tlie degree grande perU ; 

Cit the angelica to this, carer it close, and 
t it boil five or six times. Take it from 
the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED DRY. 

Proceed as for the liquid, until }*oa iiave 
po«ire(l tlie sugar au grand perU over the 
angelica ; leave it for a day in tlie st^ar, 
tlien drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, 
in a stove. 

ANGELICA R.ATAFIA. Take six 
pints of brandy, a pint of river water, thi^ee 
pQundu of sugar, two ounces of fresh giitliered 
wigelica-roots, the same qiwntity of angelica 
seel ; muce and cbve, a drachfn of esich. 
Wasii and dry the roots well, cut tliem in 
slices, and put tliem, with tlie seeds and 
spices bruiscKl, intotlie N'andy, to infuse for 
twenty days ; tlien strain it, an<l having ad- 
ded to it the sugar dissolved in river water, 
filler and lx>ttle your ratafia. 

ANGEUCA RATAFIA . Strip the an- 
gelica stalks of their lea\f>s, and cut them 
intft Hmall pieces, which put into the I)e8t 
braiuiy and water, in llie proportion of fotir 
lities (if brandy ami two of water to one 
pmnid of angelica, and four pounds of sugar 
to the naine (|uaniity ; add cloves and cinna- 
mon ; let it stand six weeks, tlien filter and 
brittle it. 

ANGELICA WA1TR. Wash eight 
handfulit of angelica leaves, cut, and lay diem 
on a table to diy. Wlien (piite dry, put 
them in an earthen pot with a gallon of strong 
wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
•tir it twice in (hat time, then put it into a 
warm still-or alembic ; draw on into bottles, 
covered with paper pricked in holes, and let 
tliem stand thus two or three davs. Sweeten 
it, and when it is settled, bottle, and stop it 
dose. 

ANISEED, OIL OF. Is made like ani- 
seed water, tlie only difference is, that an 
additional pound of sugar is necessary to 
make tlie sirup. 

ANISE PETIT PAINS. Put two 
glasses of water and two ounces of fi-e^h but- 
ler into a stewpiin, and when tlie liciuid boils 
take it from tlie fire, and mix with it six 
ounces of sifted flour ; amalgamate it tlior- 
ouglily, so that it may be quite free from 
Jainps ; tlien di'y it over the fire. Take it 
out of tlie saucepan, and add to it two eggs, 
•Dd two ounces of poYi ier-sugar j mix them 



well in, and then put in two more e^s and 
tlie xesU of a lemon minced fine : whett 
lliese are also well incorporated, add amither 
egg or two, if tlie paste (which should be ra- 
tlier firm,) tvill bear tliem. Sprinkle yodr 
paste slab with flour, cut tlie paste into 
pieces, eitch tlie size of a walnut; roll tliese 
with as little flour as possible, to about three 
inclies long, and as you roll tliem place tlieih 
on a hnking-tin, two inclies apart; dorex 
and bake tliem in a tolei'ably warm oven till 
tiiey are firm. Tlien cut some anise into 
fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to 
€0984, and the moment it reaches that de- 
gi-ee set it by the side of tlie fire that the 
sugar may not lose its whiteness; dip the 
t(ip and one side of each petit pain in the 
sugar as quick as possible, and as you take 
tliem out, strew die anise over tliem liglitly. 
Red anise is also used for tliese petU 
panu. 

ANISEED RATAFIA. To make a 
quart of this li({ueur, lioil a pound of sugar 
with a deniisetier of water, until tlie snsar 
\a quite clear; then heat anotlier demisetieir 
of water, and put in it three ounces of anise) 
take it from tlie fire before it boils ; let il 
stand a (]uai ter of an hour, and then pour it 
with three pints of bi-andy into the sugar; 
mix all well together, and then ]>our into a 
vesttel, which must be closed tight, and 
placed in the sun. Let it stand tliree weeks, 
and tlien bottle it. 

ANISEED WATER. Qioose eight 
ounces of new gi-een anise, sift it well to 
free it from tlie dust, and tlien infuse in six 
pints of brandy, with die zestes of three 
lemonti, and haff an ounce of cinnamon ; in 
a week's time distil it over a moderate fire, 
put a pint of water into tlie alembic; take 
care to collect tlie phlegni before you draw 
oft" the an iseed water. Dissolve three pounds 
of sugar in three pints of water. As die 
anise contains an acid salt, which renders 
this liqueur milky, die following proceeding 
is necessary: — iteeerve a pint of the water 
from that in which you dissolved tlie sugar, 
and mix with the white of three or four 
eggs, well whipped, and while the sirup is 
hot put to it diis egg-water and die aniseed 
water; stir it over the fire until the whole 
is hot without boiling; then put it into a 
glacs jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the 
next day bottle and filter it. 

ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 
two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound 
of aniseed, two ounces of cc^iander, and the 
same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put dieffl, 
with sixteen pints of brandy^ imo an aleov 
bic hain-inarie. Then dissolve thirteen 
pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water. 



APP 



35S 



APR 



which nniiit be pat to your liqueur when dis- 
tilled. Filter and bottle it. 

APPLE FRITTERS. Torn twelve 
small apples, cut tliera into halves, and boil 
them in simp, then leave tliem to cool. 
When tliey are c«>ld, make an extremely 
thin cnist with brioche paste. Make a 
fritter fur each lialf apple* tlien fry them and 
finish the same as Fritters a la Dauphint, 

Pears cut into quarters are made in the 
i manner as tlie above. 



APPLES AND ALMONDS Little 
Cakes. Proceed tlie same as above till 
tlte miirinalade is spread over the under- 
ci*U8t, then cover it with almonds cut in fil- 
lets, pretw them in livhti^ ; mask them with 
powder-stigar and bake m a moderate oven. 
As 8fK>n as cok), cut your gAteaux accord- 
ing to your fancy, eitlier round, oblong, lo- 
zenge, or crescent-shaped. 

APPLE MARMALADE, Little 
Ca RES. Make a marmalade of twenty-lour 
appjps in the usual way, with a (|uarter of a 
pound of su^ar, and a quarter of a pot of 
apricots, and the zeate of a lemon, shred 
fine. Make your paste, and proceed as di- 
rected for Pfctifs Gateaux glaces of a))ricf)ts. 
Sprinkle thetn (when marke<i) with powder- 
sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven and 
finish tliem. 

APPLE PETIT GATEAUX WITH 
Pistachios. Make an umler-crust of the 
same size and thickness as directed for peiils 
gAteaux glaces of apricots, ami cover it 
. with apple marmalade; when baked, mash 
the apples with a liule apricot marmalaiie, 
and strew over a quarter of a pound of pis- 
tachio nuUi cut in small picwcs, and then put 
it in the oven ajjain for a few uiiniil(« to dry 
the apricots. When coll cut them into the 
usual forms. 

APPLES AND PISTACHIOS. Pre- 
pare and loss np a dozen ap|;lcs far this 
gateau with apples and raisins, with the ad- 
dition of two ounces of sugar, and instead 
of the zeste of an orange, grate that of a 
lemon, and put three ounces of pista^.hio nuts 
blanched, in the place of the raisins. Pro- 
ceed in the same manner as directed in that 
recipe, strewing on the dame d'the gdteau 
pistachio and sugar, eadi nut cut into six 
pieces; and when the crown is put round 
the band, place a pistachio nut in tlie mid- 
dle of each meringue^ bake it of a light 
color in a slov^oven, and serve it hoL 

APPLE MEKINGUEES. Put some 
spple nuirmulade on a dish, in a pyramid : 



whip the whites of two eggs to a frolii,ais 
with them two spoonfuls of powder-engw 
and a little* lemon-peel chopped extreo^ 
small ; decorate your apples with this prep- 
aration, glaze tliem with sugar, and color 
them in tlie oven. 

APPLE MERINGUE, lay JitimbaU 
paste in a tart pan, egg and prick it all over, 
and bake it; lay in it a puree of apide8,aud 
finish with white of e^,as for k la Turque; 
serve it hot. 

APPLES PUREE. Peel and core a 
dozen or more good baking apples; set them 
over tlie fire to stew with some clarified 
sugar and a small bit of lemon-ped; iriieo 
soft, stir tliem well with a wooden spooo, 
and put in a spoonful of apricot jam; stir it 
at times till tlie jam is mixed and the applei 
thicken, then rub the whole throogli • 
tammy. 

APPLES, SOUFFLE PARISIEN. 
Make a marmalade of tliree dozen apples, 
half a pound of powder-sugar, the peel of a 
lemon, and a glass of water ; dry it as mucb 
as you possibly can, for on that the good ap- 
pearance of the $ouffl4 parieien chiefly 
de|)ends; tljon put it into a large stewpan. 
Whip the whites of fifteen ^gs to a strong 
froih, with a pound of powder-sugar. Mix 
a quarter of this at first, with die apple mar- 
malade, then stir the whole togetlier, aod 
pour it into a erouitade prepared as usiiaL 
(See Souffle.) Bake it for an hour in a 
moderate oven. Serve it as soon as posw- 
hie after taking it from the oven. Glaxe it 
with powder-sugar. 

APPLE SIRUP. Take six apples, 
pare and cut them into small pieces; put 
them into a matrass with three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar and two glasses of water; 
stop it close and place it in a bain morte, 
and leave it alwut two hours, letting the 
water be lK>iling; move the matrass fre- 
(ineftlly without taking it out of Uie water; 
this must l)e done carefidly lest it slwald 
break on b<^ing exposed to tlie cold air; 
when done put out tlie fire, aod let tlie flwrf- 
rass ctM>l before you take ii out. When the 
sirup is neaily cold, flavor it with leaioa- 
juico, and add a sfioonful of spirits of lemoo 
or cinnamon, i>rarige-flower water, or what- 
ever else you may choose. If any dregi 
should arise, let it stand for some boon 
longer, and then gently pour tlie sirup into 
bottles. Grejit cire must he taken to pre- 
vent its being muddy. 

APRICOTS BOTTLEO. PresB tha 

quantity of ripe apricots you may require 



APR 



259 



APR 



tfarongh a horse-hair sieve ; put the ptilp into 
bottles, cork them very close, and tie tliem 
over; place these bottles npright in a large 
saucepan, with hay between to prevent tlieir 
touching ; put the saucepan on the fire, and 
fill it with water. When the water is near 
boiling, take it oflT and let it stand till the 
bottles are cold ; then put them in a cellar, 
without touching each other, until wanted, 
when they will be found as good to use as 
fresh fruit. The apricots may also be pre- 
aerved whole by the same means. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Choose 
^our apricots when quite ripe, let them lie 
linee from spots, rub them carefitlly with a 
linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh 
your fruit, and to each pound put a quarter 
of a pound of sug-rir. Clarify il, and boil it 
to tlie degree grand perli, then put in the 
apricots: boil them diree or four times, tak- 
ing care to turn them frequently, that they 
may take the sugar in all parts. Take them 
off the fire, and put them one by one into 
glass bottles; the sirup being by lliis time 
nearly cold, pour the brandy (thj-ee demise- 
Hera to each pound) into it by degrees, stir- 
ring constantly to mix it well with the sirup. 
When thoroughly incorporated, f)our it into 
the btittles, the fruit at first will float; but 
when the brandy and sugar have soaked in 
they will sink to tlie Iwttom; they are tlien 
fit to eat. 

APRICOT COMPOTE, GREEN. 
Green apricots are done exactly tlie same as 
green almonds. See Almonds. 

APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, 
and take the stones from your fruit, and put 
them on the fire in a little water, and when 
they rise tliey are sufficiently done, and may 
be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then 
put them into a little clarified sugar and give 
them three or four boilings ; skim them well, 
and then put your fruit aside; boil the sugar 
slone four or five times rooi'e, and pour it 
over the apricots. When cold pLice them 
in the compoiier. 

APRICOT CONSERVE. Take half- 
ripe apricots, peel and cut tliem into thin 
sKces, dry them over a gentle fire ; to four 
ounces of fruit put one pound of sugar, boil- 
ed to tl)e degree la plume forte; wlien the 
•ugar is nearly cold put in ilie fruit, taking 
tare to k * ■ it well with a spoon, that they 
may be wall incorporated. 

APRICOTS PARISIEN. Take five 
dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, 
and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, 
with half a pound of sugar ami four ghis^es 
of water; as soon as you find tlu> peel will 
22** 



come off easily, take them out and draio 
them, and put fi-esh apricots into the sirup, 
and proceed the same until all are pealed, 
tlien reduce the sirup to the usual consis- 
tence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, on whidi grate 
the zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and three-quariera 
of a pound of raisins, into a saucepan, and 
when it boils take it from the fire and put it 
on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally for 
an hour, when, if the rice be quite soA, mix 
the yolks often eggs with it. 

APRICOTS IN JELLY. Pare and 
stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay 
them m a piin, and cover them with clari- 
fied sugar; next day drain the sinip, and 
boil it smooth, then add the apricots and 
boil tot^edier; the following day make a 
jelly with codlings, boiling some apricotl 
among tl.era, to give a better flavor. When 
the jelly is done put in the other fruit with 
the sirup, and boil altogether, skim it well 
and put it in { ' 



APRICOT MARMALADE. Peel the 

apricots, and take out the stones; to each 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a ponixl 
of clarified sugar, lx»il it to tlie dc'i^ee grot 
boulety then put in the apricots, boil both tO' 
gedier: when it flows readily it may be put 
into pots. 

APRICOT RATAFIA. Peel and cut 
into pieces as many ripe apricots as you 
may require, and boil tliem in while wine 
(about a pint to four dozen;) strain and 
mix ft with an equal quantity of brandy; 
put the whole into a jar, with the kernels 
bruised, add a quarter of a (K>und of sugar 
to each pint. Let it infuse ^r three wecucs, 
then filter and bottle it. 

APRICOT SWEETMEAT, whole 
AND DRY. Choose fine firm apricots, make 
a little opening at the top to take out the 
stone, put them into cold water, tlien blanch 
them over the fire; when they begin to lioil, 
take out those which are soft, throw them 
into cold water, and drain them. In the 
meantime, prepire some clarified sugar to 
petit liisai. _ When it boils put in the apri- 
cots, and boil up a few times together. Tlie 
next day separate the sugar fi-om the fruit, 
WA\ d !a nappe, and then pour it over the 
apricots again ; the following day boil the 8U- 
giu' petit per Id, then add the fruit, and boil 
together; the fourth day drain them; and, 
having phiced them on iron plates, sprinkle 
ihem with sugar Iwfore yoo put them into 
tlie stove to dry ; when dry, place in boxes 
in l:iyei*s, placing a sheet of paper betn 
each layer. 



BAR 



360 



BAR 



B. 

BADIANE, INDIAN. Take a pound 
of slarced anise, puund and infuse it in six 
quarts of go«Kl brandy for a week, wlien 
add to it a pint and a half of water, and 
distil it. Dissdve seven pounds and a 
half of sugar in seven pints of water, and 
add it to the distiile<l liqueur. Stir it well, 
•train and lx)tlle it. This is also called 
Badiane Cream, Some persons color it 
with a little cochiiieal, it is then called Oil 
of Badiane. 

BALM WINE. Boil twenty pounrls of 
lump sugar in four gallons and a half of 
water gently for an hour, and put k in a 
tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the 
tops of green balm, and put them into a 
barrel with a little new yeast, and when 
the simp is nearly cold pour it on tlie 
balm. Stir it well togetlier, and lei it 
stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently ; 
bring it up, and when it has stood for six 
weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into 
eachlMttle; cork it tight. The longer it 
is kept the better it will be. 

BALSAM, SIRUP OF. Put an ounce 
of balsam of tola into a quait of spring wa- 
ter, and boil them two hours ; add a pound 
of white pounded eugar-camly, and boil it 
half an hour longer. Take out tlie bal- 
sam, and strain the sirup twice ; when cold, 
bottle it. 

BAR6ADOES CREAM. Take the 
sests of three fine oedrats, two drachms of 
cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them 
into three quarts of brandy ; ch>se the ves- 
sel hermetically, and let it infuse for a 
week, then distil it in an alembic. Dis- 
solve over the dre. three pounds of sugar in 
a quart of pure river water, add to it half a 
pound of orange-flower water, work the 
mixture, and filter it through a straining 
bag into bottles for use. 

BARBADOES WATER. Take the 
outer rind of eight lai^e florentine citnHis, 
half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a 
gallon of rectified spirit; distil in the .6am 
maries dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
(juart of water ; mix it with the distilled 
liquor ; filter and bottle it for use. 

BARBADOES WATER AMBERr 
COLORED. Infuse the yellow rind of 
six bergamots, half an ounce of cinnamon, 
and two drachms of doves bruised, for six 



days in a gallon of rectified spirit; tbei 
add a dracliin of safTron, and let the whoW 
otand kIx days lonirer. Disstilve two puuodi 
of sugar in a quai t oT water, add it to the 
infusion, and filter for use. 

BARBERRY BISCUITS. Press the 
juice through a sieve from two pounds of 
barl)erries, and mix with it five |K)un(l8 of 
sifted sugar ; wliisk the whites of four e^ 
and add tliem to the fruit ; prepare »)me 
square |)aper cases, fill them with the JHio, 
make them quite smootli, lay them oa 
sieves, and put tliem into a stove, and let 
them remain six or eight days. Whea 
|)erfectly dry, take away the papers : ke(|> 
them in a dry place. 

BARBERRIES, TO CANDY. Take 
the liarlx^rries out of the preserve, and 
wash off the sirup in warm watei*; tlien 
sift over them some fine sugar, and art 
them in im oven, often moving thein, ami 
strewing sugar upon them until tiiey are dry. 

BARBERRY DROPS. Cut ofT tl» 
black topo, and roast tlie liuit before the 
lite till soft enough to pulp with a silver 
spoon through a sieve into a china basin, 
then set tlie liasin in a saucepan of water 
the size of the top of tlie basin, and stir 
the barberries till they become tliick. 
When cold, put to every pint, a pound and 
a half of the best sugar pounded as fine as 
|)ossible. Beat the fruit and sugar together 
for two hours and a half (or more tur a 
hirge quantity), then drop it on sheets of 
white thick paper. If, when you drop, it 
rtms, there is not sugar enough, and it wiU 
look rougli if you put too much. 

BARBERRY ICE. Put some barber- 
ries into a pan witliout water, set it oW 
a gentle fire, stirring tltem constastly; 
when warm, pass tliem through a sieve, 
into a pan, add to the Jiquor clarified MSar; 
if too thick, put a little water, but no Jem- 
on-juice, as the barberries are sufficiently 
acid without; then put it itUo the ^ab^ture 
to congeal. 

BARBERRY ICE CREAM. Pat,« 
large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint 
of cream ; add the juice of a lemon awl a 
little cochineal ; stir it well, aad fisish as 
directed, see Icjc. 

BARBERRY ICE WATER. Mwo* 
spoonful of barberry jam with the juice of 
a lemon, a pint of water, and a little oocb* 
ineal ; pass it through a sieye and fresieit, 
take care that it is thick and smootb be- 
fore you put in nsonlds* 



BAR 



S6i 



B£R 



3ARBERRY MARCHPANE. Take 
three pounds of sweet almoRds, two pounds 
and a half of sugar, and a pound of har- 
berries ; .pound (lie almonds to a paste, mix 
them with tlie sugar boiled to petit boule, 
and then add tlie juice of tlie barberries 
strained ; stir them together well, and place 
them on hot asiies, stirrings tliem continual- 
ly until tlie paste is formed ; tlien put it on 
s^ table sprinkled with su^ir and let it cool ; 
spread it out about tlie thickness of a crown 
piece, cut it into various forms, place them 
en slieets of paper, and bake tliem in a 
nodemte oven and glaze tliem. You may 
use any other fruit you tliink proper. 

BARBERRY PASTILE. Dissolve 
4ialf an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, strain it in a cloth or bag, and put 
it into a mortar, ^ich a spoomul of bar- 
berry marmalade; mix it well, and add as 
much powder-sugar as will make it into a 
malleable paste ; you may also put in a lit* 
tie cochineal dissolved ; form it into what 
I you. 



BARBERRIES PRESERVED IN 
Bunches. Choose tliose bavberries which 
have the lai^gest seeds, whidi .may be ex- 
tracted carefully with the nib of a pen. 
Weigh your fruit, and mix it with an 
«qnal weight of sugar boiled to petit bouie; 
boil them together two or three times, and 
skim it. Set it aside in an eartlien vessel 
until ilie next day, when it may be put in 
pots and covered. 

BARBERRY WAFERS. Press out 
the juice from as many barberries as you 
may require, and mix it with powder-su- 
gar, and tlie white of one egg, and stir it 
«p with a wooden or silver spoon, to a 
me paste. Lay a sheet of wafer paper on 
a baking plate, and spread -your paste over 
it very thin with a knife; cut it into twelve 
pieces, and put them round a stick (the 
paste upwards) in a hot stove to curl ; when 
^aif curled, take them off carefiiliv, and set 
'diem up endways in a sieve ; let them stand 
for a whole day in a hot stove. 

BARBERRY WATER. Puttwolai^ 
spoonibis of barberry jam, the juice of Jwo 
lemons and a gill of sirup in a basin, and 
dilute it with water; add a little codiineal, 
and if not rich enough, more sirup; strain 
it 'through a fine sieve. 

BARLEY SUGAR. Clarify two-pounds 
of eiigar, and boil it to earame/ heiglit, in 
a deep copper w^sel witli a lip ; pour it in 
Btrai^ht lines about an inch thick, on a 
marble slab previously rubbed with butter. 
Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of 



sugar and twist rt; when cold cut it into 
proper lengths and put tliem by in glasses. 
They must be kept in a dry place. 

BARLEY SUGAR DROPS. Proceed 
as for IxiHey sugar* Have ready a large 
slieet of white paper, covere<l with a«in(M>th 
layer of siflt^ sugar. Pour out (he Utiled 
sugar in drops the size of a shilling; when 
cold, fold tliem separately in pajier, a few 
drops of tlic essence of ginger or lemon will 
improve tlie flavor. 

BARLEY SIRUP. Make of a pound of 
barley tliree quarts of barley water ; strain 
out the barley, and put to tlie water a hand- 
ful of scabioui<>,tormeiitrl, hyssop, agrimony, 
horehound, maiden hair, sanicle, betons, 
burage, bugk)8e, rosemary, marigolds, sage, 
violets and cowslips, of each a pint, when 
pieked; a pound of raisins stoned, half 
a ;ponnd of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of 
dates stoned; half a {xjund of green li(]Uor- 
if^e, caraway, fennel and aniseed, of each 
one ounce, haitshorn, ivy, elecampane 
roots^ of each an ounce ; the roots of fen- 
nel, asparagus, cowhgrass, polipodiuin, 
and oak parsley, of each a handful : clean, 
bruise tlie seecifi, slice tlie roots, and put all 
into the barley water, cover close, and 
boil gently for twelve liours ; tlien strain 
and press out tlie juice, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours; wlien clear, add to it 
it>se water and hyssop, half a pint of each, 
and a pint of. clarified juice of coltsfoot, a 
drachm of safiron, <three pints of the best 
honey, and as man^ pounds of sugar as 
quarts of liquor, boil this an hour and a 
half, keeping it clean scummed, then bot- 
tle it, cork it well, and put by for use. 

BARLEY WATER. Put a quarter 
of a pound of pead-bark;y into two quarts 
of water. Jet it <boil, skim it very clean, 
boil half away, and strain it off. Sweeten 
according to taste, and put in two glasses 
of white wine, or some lemon-juice. Drink 
it warm. 

BERGAMOT DROPS. Mix the juice 
of four or five lemons, and some sifted su- 
gar, with a wooden spoon; add to this 
twenty drops of essence of l>erg«mot ; mix 
it well in, and having stirred it over the 
fire three or four minutes, drop it about 
the sixe of a sixpence on writing jiaper, 
and let them stand till cold. 



BERGAMOT WAFERS. Squ 
six lemons into a basin, and mix some 
sided sugar, essence of bergamot, and the 
white of an egg, widi tlie ^uice; beat 
them togetlier till very white ; if it becomes 
too thicks add the juK<« of another iemoo; 



BIS 



i6A 



dis 



•pread your paste, and dry them as bar- 
berry wafer: 

BERGAMOT WATER. To the rinds 
of three bergamots, pat a gallon of proof 
qpirit, and two quarts of water ; draw oflT 
one gallon by the bain marie, and sweeten 
widi sugar. 

BERGAMOT WATER. Take three 
gitls of sirup, the juice of six lemons, and 
when diluted sufficiently with water, add 
a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. 
Strain it through a fine sieve for use. 

BERGAMOT WATER ICE. Stir 
together the juice of three lemons, two gills 
of sirup, half a pint of water, and half a 
tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain 
and freeze it. 

BETONY, CONSERVE OP. Take 
a poimd of lietony, three pounds of loaf su- 
gar, besit them in a stone mortar; boil the 
sugar with two quarts oi betony water to 
the thickness of a sirup, then mix them to- 
gether by little and little, over a gentle 
nre, make it into a conserve, and keep it in 
glasses. 

BISCUITS. Lsiy the rind of a lemon 
in boiling water, till it lie tender; take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch tliem 
in cold water, and two ounces of gum-drag- 
on, which soak in fair water; thr$n pound 
the almonds, pittting in as you pound, tlie 
whites of two eggs beaten b<illow; pound 
ttie lenKHi in a stone mortar by itself, and 
put the gtim and the lemon into the almonds, 
and mix them well together; then beat a 
pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add 
two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it 
with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, 
and lay them upon white pafwrs, and set 
them in the oven. 

BISCUITS IN CASES. Prepare 
your mixture the same as for spoon bi«icuits, 
and fill some little round or s({uare cases 
with it. Then with the rolling pin crusti 
some fine sugar, btit not to a powder, and 
strew it over your biscuits, which place on 
a copiier plate, and wlien tlie sugar begins 
to disd4ilve pttt them in a gentle oven, at the 
moudi of which put a sh(»vel full of burning 
coals to ciy8talli;cetl)e sugar; and when that 
assumes tlie appearance of little pearls, re- 
move the cohIs and close the oven. Tliese 
oiscuits will re({uii-e from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes baking. 

BISCUITS ICED Beat up the white 
of eiglit» and ilie yolks of six ^gs, wkh a { 



pnond of fine nowdered sugar, for two hom 
Have ready fmirteen ounces of weH^lried 
sided flour ; when the oven is ready and 
your plates buttered, mix th^ flour sh qoiek 
as possible with the eggs, &c., and lay the 
biscuits on the pbt^B ; you may add a little 
musk and ambergris. Bake in a qaick ovea. 

BISCUIT, ITALIAN. Bakeabisrait, 
made Iik« leed bieeuit, in a pkiin, round 
mould ; cut it across, in slices t« indi 
thick ; poor on each slice a spoonful of tme 
maraschino, and when tiw^ ha/ve unbRwd 
this, place them in their proper f(Vin, and 
mask tlie whole, either witli white of egg and 
sug;ir, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with 
apricot marmalade, on which strew pomded 
^ macaroons. ^ 

BISCUITS OF ITALIAN WATER. 

Whisk up six eggs, and an equal weight of 
powder-sugar, for half an hour. Take us 
more e^s and their weight (^ flour, and mix 
ail tc^etlier, and by this mixtinre on paper, '» 
cakes the eighth of an inch tliick, and afaaot 
two inches diameter ; lay them quite flat, 
and do not let them touch. The oven shoald 
be hot ; five minutes will bake them. Wlwi 
cold, wet the nnder side of the paper, and 
they will then remove easily. 

BISCUITS, JUDGES. Bn»k m 
eggs into a basin, and \vhi«tk tbein wdl 
for five minutes, add lialf a pound of pow« 
der-sugar, and whiidt again fi>r ten minuiei 
longer; put some caraway-eeeds and half 
a pound of dry sified flour ; mix them all 
together with a wooden spoon. Dropdieoi 
on paper about the size of a crown-pieee, 
and thick in tlie middle ; sift sugar over, 
and bake them in a brick oven. Take 
them ofif the paper wliile hot. 

BISCUITS, LIGHT. Take tea eggs, 
put tlie yolks of five in a pan with a few 
crisped orange>fiowerSy the peel of a greea 
lemon, botli shred fine, ana tkree-quari«s 
of a pound of fine su^ar ; beat the whole 
together till the sugar is dissolvetl and well 
mixed with the ^gs. Beat tlie ten whites 
to a froth, and add to die sugar, stir io 
lightly, and by degrees, six ounceti of flaw"* 
put them into buttered moulds, puwdo'ing 
tiiem with fine sugar, and bake tliem is a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUITS, MANQUES. Put intou 
earthen pan half a pound of powder-«^g»''» 
three-ttuarters uf a pound of fl^Mir, a qiianer 
of a pound of Uitter, the same of |x»uuded 
almond«, a Utile salt, ai||} sufme oranxe- 
flower water, six yulks, and two whole 
eggs ; beat up tliese iugi-edieots well ; whip 
die six whites^ aiMl mix them gpuduaAg 



BIfl 



263 



BIS 



with the abofe prepanttioo ; make a paper 
case, hatier and pour in it vour biscuit 
paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some 
almonds into either dice or slips, mix them 
with some powder-su^r and white of egg ; 
whea the biscuit numque9 is about three 

Cirts done, dorez and cover it with this 
tter mixture ; then replace it in the oven 
and finish baking. As soon as it is done, 
lake it out and cut it into whatever forms 
your iancy may dictate. 



BISCUITS, MARBLED. Make 
ty-four ^gs, a pound of powder-su^r, and 
three-quartew of a pound of dried and sifted 
flour, into a biscuit paste, as directed for 
Spotm Biscuits; then beat four ounces 
of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, 
and add to it a third of the paste ; when it 
is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one 
half mix a Quarter of the biscuitHpaste, which 
will tioffe that |iortion a light chocolate col- 
or. After this, mix together some vegeta- 
ble red and infusion of saffron to color half 
the remaining paste orange; then divide 
that again, and mix the last quarter with 
half the oran^-colw, thus your paste will 
be colored with two shades of chocolate 
and two of orange. 

Make two paper cases, each eight inch- 
es square and thi-ee high, pour into one of 
these a large spoonml of the chocolate- 
paiste, and wlien it has spread over the bot- 
tom of tlie case, pour in one of tlie orange- 
colored, on which another of the chocolate, 
and so on, alternately, until die case is half 
full ; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it 
into a slow oven for three-quarters of an 
hour. Put tlie remainder of your biscuit- 
paste (botli colors) into a pan and stir them 
toother with a spoon till the whole is 
▼eined, or clouded with the two colors ; pour 
it into the other case, sprinkle it with flour 
and bake like the former; when ouite cold, 
cut them into slices about two iucnes thick, 
half of which should be broken, and the other 
half cut in pieces of an equal size, lay tliem 
on a baking-plate, and dry them in the oven. 
These are generally used to make the rocks 
in ornamental pastry, and may lie colored 
with the usual materiab, according to your 
iiincy^ 

BISCUITS, MARCHPANE, Beat a 
pound of sweet almonds to a very flne 
paste, moisten them witli water, then put 
them and a pound of powder-sugar into a 
saucepan, over a clear but not inerce charf 
coal fire, stirring constantly, till the pa^te 
leaves adhere togetlier ; put it on a floured 
slab, and w^rl^it well with your Wnds for 
fiowe time, then roll small pieces of it about 
three inches long and half the thickness of 
jrour little finger, join the ends of e^ch Md 



make them into round rings, hy them Oh « 
sieve in a dry warm place for two or threft 
days. When wanted, mix soote powder- 
sugar with the whites of eight eg^» awl 
beat tliem with a wooden spoon in each 
hand ; add a cup of oran^-flower water. 
Put your rings into tliis icing, and cover 
them completely; kiy them on a sheet of 
paper and bake in a slow oven until the 
icing sets and they begin to change color. 
Do not remove them firwn the paper till cold. 

BISCUITS* MILLiBFRUrr. Take 
preserved orange and lemon*peel, a quar- 
ter of a pound of each, six ounces of angel- 
ica, the same of sweet, and mie ounce of 
bitter almonds; cut all the above iligredienCi 
into pieces half an inch long and a quarter 
wide. Make an iciiig with white of eggs, 
sugar and orange-flower water ; put the al- 
monds, &c. into this, and having paper mi 
your baking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of 
whatever size you please ; then with a hair 
pencil touch them here and there with a 
little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too 
hot an oven* 

BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the 
weight of six eggs in powder-sugar, and 
mix it with the yolks and a little pounded 
cinnamon ; whisk the whites to a firm froth, 
and stir them lightly into the ^olks^ add 
four whole eg^, and tlieir weight of dry 
sifted flour, mix them well together; take 
this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about 
the sise of a half-crown piece on paper, 
join two together with the spoon, and when 
your paper is full, spi*inkle powder-sugar 
over and bake them ; a few minutes will do 
them. Remove them from tlie pa|)er whikl 
liot aqd put the two updersides together, 

BISCUITS, PRINCESS AMELIA, 
Put the whites of twelve eggs into an estrth- 
en pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to tliem eight ounces of double refined 
sugar, pounded ami siftec); having mixed 
them, put in three ounces of fltnir, and three 
of powder-sugar sifted, tlie grated rind of 
one or two lemons ar.d half a coffee cup of 
orange-flower water, stir them well wjih a 
wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the 
snow: drop tliem on paper of a larger siz0 
than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to 
a dear brown in a modemte oven, Tfuke 
them from the paper while hot, 

BISCUITS, SAVDV, Whip twelve 
whiles of eggs to a snow; beat the yolks 
wiUi a |iound and a quarter of powder-cngar, 
mix them togetlier, with three-(|(iariers of ^ 
pound of flour and the grale<i rind of a Wq^ 
on, into a paste, rub your mould vyilh piel^d 
fMiteVf and Uik^ i.t, 



SIS 



9«4 



%tfl 



BlSCUrrs, large savoy. Take 
fifty-she egft, four pooitdB of angar, the zet- 
tea €^ four orange*, a pound and tbree-quar- 
lei* cf potatae-flour aifted ; and make yonr 
hrnoNH aalbllows: grate tiie xtwtf of the 
oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as 
it becomes colored, scrape it off, and grate 
again until all the xt9tt is done, then dry 
the sogar perfectly, crush and sift it. 

Brnk your eggs one by one, (taking care 
4hat all are peiisctty fresh;) put the yolks 
and whites into separate vessels; mix half 
year sugar with the former, stirring it in 
^th a epotnla until perfectly saiooth, then 
add the remainder, and work it well for 
twenty minutes. Whip the whttee till quite 
Arm, patting in a small quantity of pounded 
Idum; when sufiieientiy whipped, which 
ttiay be known hy little points risins wlien 
ifae wliiric is taken out; mix a littte with 
the yolks ; still, however, keeping die whites 
•lirriiig; then pour the yolks on them very 
gcmtly mixing them together as yoo pour, 
with the whisk : sift over the whole a pound 
of potatoe«-ftour, stirring the mixture all the 
time; when ready to put into the mould, 
your paste should be wery smooth, and some- 
what of the consistence of treacle. Butter 
Che raooki, and put in a few spoonfuls of 
' ^ your paste at first, to prevent any gbboles 
'of air appearing on the top when baked; 
pour in the remainder carefully. Cover a 
Qokiiig-pkite with hot ashes, lay the mould 
in the midst of them, and place it in a mod- 
erate oven ; keep it open for an hour, that 
Ate biscuit roav be iKtitched, and if it takes 
color poo quickly, cover it with paper. In 
Ihree hours time take it from the oven, and 
tf it be of a good color, and firm, turn it on 
B baking-tin, tie round it a band of doable 
|iaper, and replaoe it in tbe oven for a quar* 
ler of an hour to dry. 

IBID, WITH ALMONDS, The in- 
gredients for this biscnit are the same as 
above, with the addition <jS four ^gs, and 
half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the 
fthnonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in 
a napkin; pound them with whites of e^ 
In the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it 
throng a sieve, and then mix it with the 
additional eggs; add this to the sugar and 
yolks, and prooaed as above. 

BISCUITS, SPICE, Take three 
pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut 
in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powder-sugar; 
mix them all toother on your slab; boil 
three pounds of Lislion sugar with some wa- 
ter; make the above ingredients into a paste 
with this, and roll it to the size of a lai^ 
rolling-pin; lay it on a sheet of paper, flat 
it down a little with your hand, keeping it 



hi^r in the middle than lit Ihe ends; iM 
it into a very hot oven ; when done, tsdce % 
out, and while hot, cut it across, in slioegu 
eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. 

BISCUITS, FINE SPONGE. Break 
twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites; 
to tlie former put tliree qttarters of a poond 
of powder-fiusar, stir diem well with » wood- 
en spoon, till it rises in large Madden; 
whisK the whites to a very firm froth, and 
then mix them very lightly widi the yolks 
and sugar, and when fncorponited, add ten 
ounces of fine dried and sifted floor. Stir 
them all together well, and pour tlie mil- 
ture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar 
over, and bake them in a moderate ores. 
Take tfiem from the tins while hot. 

BISCUITS, SPOON. Break four eggs, 
put the yolks and whites into separate 
basins; add to the former a quarter of a 
pound of powder-sugar; having grated <n 
it the xewU of a lemon, mix these together 
well with a spatula for ten minuter; theo 
whip the whites to a fit>tii, and put aboot 
half of them to the yolks, and when that ii 
well mixed in, add the i-est; stir it very 
lightly, and lay them w ith a spoon on paper, 
make them aliout three inches loi^, and the 
breadth of a finger. Glaze tliem witli pow- 
der-sugar, and place them on baking tins, 
add,. as the sugar dissolves, and tliey f>hiiie, 
put the biscuits into a moderate oven, whidi 
must be kept open for seven or eigiit mimius 
then close it until your biscuits are of a pro> 
per color. When cold, detach them from 
the paper with a thin knife-blade, and hy 
them by, in couples, the glazed sides cot* 
wards, till wanted 

BISCUITS, SWEET. Take half a 
poond of fine pounded sugar, and sift it 
throu|^h a tammy. Put the whites of twelve 
eggs into a presening-pan, and die yjlks 
into an earthenware tureen ; whip die whites 
to a snow, and then carefully pnur on it the 
yolks and sugar; stir tlietn gently; place 
your pan over a chafing-dish; oontimie 
whipping the whole for a mil half hour, and 
then, if the drop which falls from tlie whisk 
lays a little while without spreading, take it 
from tlie fire, and whisk again till it is ooki; 
then add half a prjund of fine sifted flour, stir 
it in gently with a wooden spoon. Dnf 
them on paper, sift sugar over, and hike 
them in a warm oven until of a deep yellow; 
take tliem from tlie papers while warn; 
bake them as soon as possiUe after they an 
dropt on paper. 

BISCUITS, SWEETMEAT. 04 
some Naples biscuits into pieces, about ai 
inch thick, and aQ inch and a half squvei 



ftLA 



i66^ 



bott 



ud just criep them in the cma. Blake some 
icing with whites of eg^P) sugar, and orange- 
flower water; dip one side of the biscuit 
into it; cut some preaerved lemon and 
orange«peel and angelica into mall pieces; 
strew them oier th& bisoaitB, and dry the 
icing in the oven. 

BISCUITS, TOAD : IN - A - HOLE. 
Beat a pound of sweety and an ounce and a 
half of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, 
moisten with water, and uhx the paste^ 
which should not be tdo thin, with a pound 
and a 'quarter of white sugar. Lay a sheet 
of writing-paper on your baking-plate, and 
wafer-paper on tliat ; lay the biscuits about 
the size of a half-crown piece \ pat a dried 
cherry in the middle of each; sift sugar over 
and bake them in a moderate oven. When 
done, cut tiie wafer-pap«r rouad^ but do not 
take it away. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. Put full ripe 
blackberries into a large vessel with a cock 
in it, pour on as much boiling water as 
will cover lliem, and as soon as the heat 
will permit, bruise them wcH with tlie hand 
till all tiie berries are broken; cover them, 
and in about three or fr>ur days, when tlie ber- 
ries rise to the top, draw off the clear part 
into another vessel ; add to every ten quarts 
of the I jquor one pound of i»iigar, stir it well 
in, and let it stand a week or ten days to 
work. Draw it off througli a jelly-bag. Steep 
ibur ounces of isinglaiw in a pint of sweet 
wine for twelve hours, tlien lx>il it slowly 
till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the black- 
berry juice, boil them together and (lien 
pat all •ogether; let it stand a tew diiys, and 
bottle. 

BLANC-MANGE, DUTCH. P«t a 

pint of cleaiied calPs-foot jelly into a stew- 
pan; mix with it the yolks of six eggs, set 
it over a fire, and whisk till it b^ins to 
b(»il ; then set tlie f^n in cold water, and stir 
the mixttire till neiiriy cold, to prevent it 
from «urdling, and when it begins to thicken 
fiU tiie moukl:;. 

BLANC-MANGE, FRENCH. Blanch 
one pound of sweet, and a score of bitter 
almonds: drain them on a sieve, and after- 
wards dry them, by rubbing tliem in a nap- 
kin ; pound diem in a mortar, continually 
moistening them witii half a tea-spoonful of 
water at a time, to prevent tlieir oiling. 
When ihey are pounded as fine as possible, 
tsd&e them out of the mortar, and put them 
into a pan; then with a silver spoon, beat 
up your almonds gradually, with five glasses 
of filtered watei* ; after this, spread a napkin 
over an oval dish, and ptU your almonds 
.upou it; then gatlier op ib« corners of your 



napkiui and wring it v«ry tight, to presB odi 
all the milk from the almonds; then put 
into this milk, twelve ooncee of crystallised 
sugar, broken into small pieces; when the 
sugar is dissolved, pass tlie whole through a 
napkin; and then add to it one ounce at 
clarified isinglass, rather warmer than lake-* 
warm; and when tlie whole is well incorpo^ 
rated together, pour it into your mould* 
Your mooh) slmukl be previously put into 
ten pminds of pounded ice ; when your blanc^ 
mange is ready to serve, (which will be iii 
two hours after it has been pot into the 
mould,) you must take it out of the moukl 
according to the rule prescribed in VioUi 
Jelly. 

BLANC-MANGfi WITH FRUIT. 

Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and 
when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool 
for half an hour, skim, and pour it free from 
sedimeht into another pan ; then whisk with 
it a table-spoonful of cedrat, and half a 
pound of currant jelly, strawbeny, or rasp^ 
berry jam ; and when it begins to jelly « fill 
the moulds. 

BLANC-MANGE, wiTHout EiTHttI 
Isinglass or Icino. Prepare your 
almonds in the same manner as in the re- 
ceipt for Blanc-mange d la Franpaiae, but 
only using half the quantity specified in that 
i-eceipt, and likewise leaving out tlie isinglass. 
Then put into a pan the whites of four eggs, 
and whip them till they begin to whiten, 
then add your blanc-mange, and place your 
pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip 
your preparation until the egg is thoroughly 
mixed with the almonds, and the whole be- 
gins to turn to a thick cream ; and when it 
IS of a proper consistence, pour into little 
cups, and serve it either hot or cold. 

When you wish to serve this entremet 
in little cups, and of any flavor you please, 
you must only make use of two-thirds of the 
quantity of almonds, named in the receipt 
for JBlanC'tnange French, 

BOUCHEES DE DAMES. Mix with 
six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
three ounces of potato-floor, a little salt, 
and a pinch of dried orange-flowers : beat 
tliem together well, and havmg buttered a 
tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a 
gentle oven for a quarter of an hour; when 
done, cut it in pieces, about 'the size of a 
crown piece, and glaze thera» mask them 
accordii^ to your pleasure, and dry them 
in the oven, 

BOUCHEES PETITES, GLACEES. 
Roll some puff paste to about tlie eighth of 
an inch in thickness, and with a plain round 
paste-cotter, of two inches diameter, cut out 



BOU 



366 



BDT 



Mmany cakm as joa may require; theo 
with a MDaiier cutter, lake out the middle 
of half the number, eo as to make rings of 
tbeui ; moisten the edges of the former, and 
by the rings on them; wet them also as 
you lay them down, sprinkle them lightly 
with powder sugar, and bake them m a 
brisk oven. These b<mehee» require great 
attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to 
dissolve and color too quickly ; when done, 
they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill 
them with swealmeats, preserves, or whip- 
ped cream, according to fiuicy. 

BOUCHEESDE MONSIEUR. Pound 
a stick of vanilla with two ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and then siA it; mix with it 
seven additional ounces of dry powder-su- 
gar, and half a pound of sifted flour; add to 
this the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, 
and work them together till the pasto is 
very smooth and soft. Heat two copper- 
plates, rub them over with wax, and then 
wipe them ; when cold, lay the paste with 
a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, 
shaded quite round, leave tliree^iuarters of 
an inch space between each; when the 
plates are full, put them on stools in an oven, 
so that tliey can receive no heat from below, 
then put a stove with hot coals on the top 
of tlie oven, and let theiu remain in this 
state for twenty-four hours ; then put ttiem 
for fifteen or twenty minutes into a mode- 
rate oven. Take them from the plates 
whibt liot, and as soon as cold, finish them 
in the same way as bouehees de dames; 
glaze them with chocolate, a la rose, with 
pistachios, oranee, cedrat, &c. &c. They 
may also be maidied with sugar, pistachios, 
currants, &c. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, MERIN- 
GUES AUX FISTACHES. Make them 
the same as above, strew sugar over with- 
out wetting the rinss, and bake them to a 
light color in a moderate oven. Then mix 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar with 
three whites of eggs, well whipped, and 
mask the bouchees lightly with it, and 
glaze them with sugar; having ready a 
quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts blanch- 
ed, and each cut across sloping ; place these 
pieces round the edge of die bouchees like 
a crown; and each piece of tlie pistachios 
being placed on tlie cut side, they stand out 
from the edge of the bouchee: mis process 
being finished, put them in the oven again a 
few minutes, to color the egg; and m the 
meantime stir up the white of egg which 
remains, and make with it half as many 
meringuees as you have bouchees, sprin- 
kle them witli sugar, and color both sides 
of tliem in a slow oven ; and when the bou- 
chees are ready for Uible, fill them with 



cream, with pistachioe, and encr 
eadi with half a meringue, 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PERLEE& 
Your bouehees bein^ made and baked as 
above, whip the whites of two eggp to a 
firm froth, and mix them with four ■pooa* 
fuls ,of sifted sugar, aod when very soiooth, 
mask your bouchiees with it: then take 
some white of eg^, and with the point of a 
knife, drop them m peark about the size of 
a grape-stone, round each bouehee, half sd 
inch apart, sprinkle thoDi lightly with sogar, 
and dry the egg in the oven, taking care 
taey do not lose their whiteness. 

when ookl, pbce between each pearl a 
smaller one of red-currant jelly. FiU your 
bouehees with apricot marmalade, apple- 
jelly, &c. ; if, however, the jelly, or what- 
ever ebe you may use, be o^ a red color, 
your intermediate pearis should be rompnuwl 
of light-colored preserve, such as aprioot 
marmalade, &c. lliese shoold be pearled 
a few at a time ooiy. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PRAU- 
NEES. Havinff prepared die 6oiidkMt as 
usual, dorex and bake them in a moderale 
oven; wlien they are of the proper ookir, 
mask them with whites of eggs mixed with 
sugar, and almonds minced very small; n^ 
place them in the oven a minute or two, 
and then strew red, or any other cokiced 
sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover 
the almonds entirely. Fill the bouehits 



BOUCHEES PETITES, a la 
Reine. The same as above, only the 
paste must be cut thicker, and before joa 
dorez, let them stand a few minutes. Bake 
in a brisk oven* 

BUCKTH9RN, SIRUP OF. (1) Gaih. 
er the berries in the heal erf* the day, aod nt 
in an earthen vessel in the oven; squeeKoat 
the juice, and for each peck of berries pal 
two pounds of white si^r, and boil them j 
together a quarter of an hour; let it oool, 
and then bottle it. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
three quarts of the juice of clarified back- 
thorn berries, and four pounds (^browi 
sugar ; make them into a sirup over a gealle 
fire, and while warm, mix with it adrecha 
of tlie distilled oil of clovra, dissolved oe a 
lump of sugar. Tlie true buckthorn any be 
known by the number of its seeds, liavitf 
four, the alder buckthorn has only two, sad 
the clierry buckthorn one seed, llie for- | 
mer is to be used. I 

BUTTER, BLACK. Tfatee ponadKif 



CAN 



267 



CAP 



frok, oorraiits, goofleberria, nufJberrwBt 
a&d cherries, to a pound of coarw sugar, 
boiled till quite thick. It must waste to 
half the quanti^. 



C. 

CAKES MADE OF FLOWERS. Boil 
double refined sugar to a candy height, and 
strew in your flowers and let diem boil 
once up; then, with your hand, lightly 
strew in a little double refined sugar sifteci, 
and put it directly into little pans made of 
card, and pricked fiill of holes at the bot« 
torn; you must set the pans on a cushion, 
and when they are cold, take them out. 

CAKES, HONEYCOMB. Boil your 
sugar to a candy height ; then pot in your 
ilowers, which mudt be cut ; have little pa- 
pers with four comers ready ; drop some of 
your candv on the (lapers, take them off 
when ready, and if they are rightly done, 
they will look fiiU of holes like honeycombs. 

CAKES, LIQUORICE. Take hyssop 
and red rose wafer, of each half a pint, half 
a poimd of green liquorice, die outside 
scraped oflT, and then beat with a pestle; 
put to it half a pound of aniseeds, and steep 
It all night in the water; boil it with a 
gentle fire till the taste is well out of the 
uquorice ; strain it, put to it three pounds 
of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle 
fire till it is come to tlie thickness of cream ; 
take it ofl^, and put to it half a pound of 
white sugar candy seered very fine; beat 
this well together for at least three hours, 
and never suffer it to stand still; as you 
beat it, you must strew in dotilile-refined 
sugar finely seered, at k>9st three pounds; 
half an hour before it is finished, put in half 
a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in or- 
ange-flower water: when it is very white 
then it is beat enough ; roll it up with white 
•agar; and if you want it perfumed, put in 
a pastil or two. 

CANDYING. Fruit intended for can- 
dying must be first preserved, and dried in 
a stove before the fire, that none of the sir- 
up may remain in it. Sugar intended for 
the use of candying must be thus prepared: 
' pat into a tossing-pan a pound of sugar, 
with half a pint of water, and set it over a 
very clear fire. Takfe off the scum as it 
rises; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and 
Utke out a little in a silver spoon. When 
k is cold, if it will draw a thread from 
your spoon, it is Imiled enough for any kind 
•f sweetmeat. Then boil your simp, and 
vben it begins to candy round the edge of 
33 



yniir pan, it is candv height. It u a gnat, 
mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into 
too thick a sirup, especially at the first, at 
it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and 
flavor are thereby destroyed. 

CANDY FLOWERS. Take the 
best treble-refined sugar, break it into 
lumps, and dip ii piece 1^ piece into water ; 
put tliem into a vessel of silver, and melt 
them over the fire; when it just boib^ 
strain it, and set it on the fire again, and 
let it boil till it draws in hairs, which yon 
may perceive by holding up your spoon; 
then put in the flowers, and set them in cnpa 
or glasses. When it is of a hard candy, 
break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you 
please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, 
and it will iook like sugar-candy. 

CANDY, ALL SORTS OF FRUIT. 
When finished in the sirup, put a layer into 
a new sauce, and dip ii suddenly into hot 
water, to take off the Rirup that hangrabout 
it; put it on a napkin before the fire to 
drain, and tlien do some more on the sieve. 
Have ready-sifted double-refined sugar, 
which sift over the fivit on all sides, till 
quite white. Set it on the shallow end of 
the sieVte in a lightly-warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cold 
till di-y. Watch it carefully, and it will bo* 
beautiful. 

CANELLONS. Make a stiff paste, 
with a little melted butter, a spoonfol or 
two of water, some rasped lemon-peel, an 
egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half 
that quantity of sugar ; roll it very thin ; 
make a little cane oif card-paper, Imtter it 
well on the outside, and wrap it in some df 
the paste; bake it a few minutes; take out 
tlie card, and fill the paste with currant jeU 
ly, or any other jelly or sweetmeat you 
please. 

CANNELLONS MERINGUES. Whip 
the whites of two eggs, and having mixed 
them with two spoonfiils of powder-sugsur, 
then mask die cannellons; when baked, 
crush a quarter of a pound of fine si^far, 
and roll the cannellons in it ; replace them 
a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. 
The masking of these cannellons may bo 
varied according to taste, with pistacliios, 
dried currants, &c. the former cut in pieces, 
the latter well washed, dried and mixed 
with an ecjual quantity of sugar. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. Tho 

capillaire of Canada, although Uiat of Mont* 
pelier is equally good, is a very odorife- 
rous vegetable, light and agreeable, but so 
extremely volatile, that the gi^eatest port of 



CAR 



36d 



CAll 



I 

L 



Irli diMipiited during the preparation of 
tke sirup. To preserve then the odour of 
tbe cApiliaire, when ^oor sirup is sufficient- 
It done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some 
iresh capillaire coarsely ch<tpped up; then 
cover your vessel, and let it stand until it 
it quite cold, then pass it through a bolting- 
doth to separate it from the leaves of tite 
capillaire. 

Take one ounce of tbe capillaire from 
Oftnada; put it into a gla?^ pan, |x>ur upon 
It four pints of boiling water, leave it to in- 
fuse for twelve hotmi over some warm aslies ; 
•train it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give ybu" a ttrong tincture of c;ipillaire; 
melt in tins tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preserving-pan, and 
pot it on the fire, and clarify ii witli' the 
white of an egg, continue the cooking; when 

I our sirup b pet'le, put some fresh capii- 
ure, chopped, into a pan, and pour yotu* 
itnip, whilst boiling, upon it; cover yonr 
pan carefully, and let it cool; when your 
fliiMp is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Plit it into bbttles, and cork tliem hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
•ome good capillaire, cliop it up, not very 
amall, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
acme boiling water, and tlien let it infuse 
ItA* ten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain 
tills infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au casse; clarify tliis sirup with the 
irhites of eggs whipped ; skim it til! it is 
very clear ; when it rises, take it off the 
Hre, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
bottles. 

Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts 
are nearly tlie same, boil their capillaire for 
a quaitcr of an hour in river* water; after 
having passed tliis boiling through a sieve, 
they put into it some powder-sugar, and 
darify their sirup with water, or a whole 
f^ beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
veiy clear and lias boiled ou lisse, tiiey 
take it off the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it through 
a. napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
opol belt ire putting it into bottles. 

FW three pints and a half of sirup, you 
must use two good ounces of capillaii-e, Umv 
piqts of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
p^wder-«ugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
Vfm from candying. 

Caramel. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar ; 

git in a gill of sprin^-watmr ; set it on a 
'«b; when it boils skim it quite clean, and 
let it boil quick, till it comes to the degree 
called crack ; which may be known by dip- 
ping a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, 
aad letting it drop to the bottom of a pan 



of cold water; and if it remains hard, ithaf 
attained that degree : squeeze in the juice 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one min- 
ute longer on the fire ; then set the pan into 
another of cold water : have ready moulds 
of any shape; rub them over with sweet 
nil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and 
throw it over the mould in fine threads, tiH 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three small sum 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and pace 
it over small pastry of any descriptioo. 

caramel conserve. ClarirV the 
quantity of sugar you may require, an<f boil 
fl to cai-amel; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and trace oo its 
surface tlie forms you wish it to have ; whea 
cold, break it according to those marks. 
This conserve may be colored aod flavored 
according to the »ncy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in diree or four spoonfiils of 
water, and three or four drops of leaion- 
jiiice; tlien put it into a copper uotinned 
skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar fitiai 
tlie spoon into it, and so on till you have all 
the su^. Take a bit out of the water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enough ; but only let it be three parti 
cold, then pour the water firom tiie sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiled well, ran 
the sugar on it, in the manner of a maxe, 
and wlien cold you may put it on tbe dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it in- 
to the skillet, and boil it again. It should 
look thick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold cok>r. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Procaia 
your cardamums at the chemists, and thej 
will be in a shell; put them into the ovea to 
dry the skins, and tliey will break; pick all 
the seeds fixHU tliem, put the seeds into a 
large comfit-pan, and have a fire under dia 
same as for oUiers ; mix your gum, starcba 
and sirup, and finish them the ■ same aa canu 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Dry a quarter 

of a peck of fine Mour in an oven ; rub a 
poimd and a half of finesh buttxsr in it, till k 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to ba 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls <^ rose vraler» 
lialf a pint o<' canary, half a pint of cresn» 
and tliree-quarters of a pint of new ale yea8|» 
anl the whites of two, and volka of (bar 
^ggs; mix all these well together, let it lia 



CAS 



CHA 



before the fire, and when joa make it up 
put in a poood and a halfof Naples biscuits, 
and three-qoarters of a pound of cara way- 
comfits. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from 
them, and have a large copper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
handles and two pieces of iron made as a 
ring on each side ; then you must have a 
pultey fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
book to each end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
some fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just sc^ten it, boil some simp a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch ; 
take some gum arabic, put it into some 
water, then put that into another pan, and 
make it just warm ; have an iron-pot with 
diarcoal fire under the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; 
have a lai^ tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must lie on the 
top; put tlie caraway seeds into your pan ; 
add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them 
with your hands until Vou find they are all 
dry, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do the same over your pan of fire, until 
you find Um^' are all dry ; put the gum only 
three or four times to tliem al fii-st, then tlie 
starch and sugar, but boil your sirup more 
as you find they come to coat witli it, and 
not so much starch ; when you have dried 
them seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put them into the stove, do 
them the next day, and so, suoceesively, for 
aix or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of caraway seeds you think proper, 
put them into a preserving-pan, and when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the 
size you wish; then proceed as directed for 
jilmond Dragees, 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
musk and ambergris with as much of the 

Eowder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
ngs. Having pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
as much water as will wet it, and boil it to 
m. candy heiffht, then put in your powder 
and mix well togetlier. Butter some pew- 
ter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
cherries, a quarter uf a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a drachui of cinnamon; 
bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three quarts of brandy for tluree 



weeks. Dissolve two pounds of nwar ia a 
quart of water, and mix with the Rqueur, 
and let it stand some time longer, thea 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OP 
Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blancli and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening tliem with 
water ; when perfectly smootli, dilute them 
with five glasses of water put in by degrees; 
then pour tliem in a napkin, and squeezinf 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, wi(h one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar with 
the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon 
as both are dissolved, strain them, and put 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmange to three-quarters of aa 
inch in depth; as soon as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, wuicb 
ought to be of a clear yellow ; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so oa 
alternately, till tlie mould is full. Turn out 
the blancmange as directed in Blancmange 
French. 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 

the rind of a cedrat all round, until Uie juice 
is ready to ooze out ; this must be done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, 
(a1x)ut a pound;) remove the surface of 
Uiis sugar, to which tlie grate<l rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder of 
the sugar to the degree grande piume, 
then take it from die fire, and when it has 
stood a little while, put in your cedrat, stir- 
ring it with a s)X)on, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top ; you may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of lump su- 
gar, grate on it the zeates of two cedrats, 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it oflf with a knife, and grate again, and so 
on until all the zeate is gone; dissolve the 
scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, 
witli the juice of four lemons, pass it through 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of tha 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, tlie 
fruit, the sirup, and an ounce of isinglaai 
together, and finish in the usual way. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place them round the in- 



CHE 



470 



CH£ 



tide of a diih; tben cot more ratafia cakes 
into {iquaree, dip them also into sugar, and 
pile them corner- ways on the row, and so 
on for two or three stories high. Line the 
iiMiide with wafer-paper, and fill it with 
spouse bidcuit, sweetmeats, blanched aU 
moDda, or some made cream; put trifle 
o^er that, and garnish the frotli with rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel sugar 
thrown lightly over the top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
die fineM and ripest cherries, leave on half 
the stalks, and put them into very cold wa- 
ter. In about half an hour take them out, 
and drain them on a sieve; weigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, alk)w a quarter 
of a pound of sugar ; when-^ou have clarified 
and boiled it to grand perle, put in the 
fruit, boil them up two or three times, stir- 
ring them gently with a skimmer; then take 
them from the fire carefully, and put the 
cherries into bottles or flrfass jars; when 
filled, add fo each twelve cloves and half an 
ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put 
to the sugar, wlien nearly cold, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint and a half to a 
pound of fruit); mix tliem together well, 
and pour them on the ciierries. In two 
months time taste them, and if sufficiently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
0)ver the jars or buttles close. 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gattiered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; bull clarified sugar, and 
pour it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set tliem on the fire with a littki 
water, and half a pound of sug-ar. Wlien 
tlie}- have boiled, pass tliem through a hair 
>pievt; into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of tlie kernels, put tliem in a basin with the 
juice of two lemons. Adrl to the cherries a 
pound of 8(igar eni petit lisae, and strain on 
them the leuion-jnice and kernels ; mix the 
whole together, and put it in a saboiiere, 
with pounded ice. Work the clienies up 
with it well, until it has set, liteu place it in 
gkisses. 

CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved cherries, pound them, 
stones and all; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, tlie juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it accordmg to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the ri|-)est, largest, best i-ed colored cherries, 
you can meet witli, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; 



Mone and tail; and then pot them m « 
gentle fire, and kee|[# stirring them till re- 
duced to half. Clarify and boil yora- sugar 
to petit eatse, then add the fruit U> it, and 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then sofficiently dune, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
of sugar, and a pound €^ cherries ; pound 
the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit boule; then having 
stoned, well bruised, and squeexed out the 
juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir 
it well, place it on hot adhes, stirriog con- 
stantly until the paste is properly done; 
then finish it in the usual way, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspber- 
ries, currants, or any other firuit may be 
used in the same way. 



CHERRY RATAFIA. Crash tm 
pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover the jar ckiee, 
and infuse the cherries for five or six cbys; 
at the end of that time put the fruit into a 
ck>lb, and press the juice out through. BoH 
five pounds of fine currants, with three poondi 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two juices, 
measure them, and for every pint alk»w a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the kemeh 
of the cherry-stones, half a pound of coriaa- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well pounded, put tliem into a jar, 
and pour the liquor over tliem ; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks, aflar 
which, pa9s the whole through a jelly -bag, 
and bottle it ; cork it carefully. 

CHERRIES, SIRUP OF. The bert 
cherries li>r this purpose are the black sour 
ones ; take out the stones and express dii^ 
juice into an earthen pan, where it most 
Inland in a cool place for twenty-four houfs 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice ^ntly into a pan, and add to it, fir M 
each pound of juice, two pounds of cruslied 
sugar, and two drachms of cinnamon, pre- 
viously infused in a glass of water, wrap the 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it with 
the Witter into your mn ; boil ail u^efher 
for half an hour, skimming it carefully. 
When sufficiently done take out the cinna- 
mon ; strain the sirup till quite clear, and 
wlien cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) 

Roast chestnuts as for the table ; take otf 
the skins ; dip each in the whites r^ eg^i 
beaten, and then roll them in powder-sn^; 
lay them separately on paper to dry, in a 
moderate oven; ttiey may be cut iatu dif* 



CH£ 



271 



CHO 



ferent forms if you think proper, and 
either white or brown. 



dkESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (2) 

Cot Bome oflier rodu or reeds into pieces 
about two or three inches long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
cfaestnut. Take a piece of very fresh but- 
ter, (about die size of a nut), and rub it 
with the paim of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub evei^ 
part well. Then having boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel l^iglit ; take a piece 
of the osier, with a chestnut on tlie end, in 
each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- 
ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar 
may adliere equally about the chestnut till 
it begins to cool, then lay them on the but- 
tered slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ing as above; when all are done and cold, 
take out the osier twigs, and wrap each 
chestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think proper. These chestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten 
the day on which they are made. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (1) Take 
the outer skin from about a hundred 
chestnuts, and then put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handfuls of bran ; put them on the fire 
and blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
into them easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
rub otf the second skin, and throw them 
into cold water, with the juic^ of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a poimd and a half of sugar 
to petti liste, and having drained your 
chestnuts, put them into the sugar with the 
juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of 
orange-flower water; put these on die .'ire 
iiT a shoit time, but not to let them boil : 
then take them off and set them by. Tiie 
next day drain the chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times ; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to 90uffl.e, put in the 
chestnuts ; blanch them instantly afterwards, 
and put them into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
your chestnuts as for the dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put than 
into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a glass of water; let 
tbem simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
residy to serve, strew powder-sugar over 
them. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Found 
twenty-6ve roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
with a little milk ; then put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, 
balf a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and 
torn ounces of powder-sugar; wiien it has 
23* 



boiled a little while, strain it, put it into 
a dish, or glass foe table, and let it cool. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, and 
then pound a quarter of a hundred of chest- 
nuts, widi a smaH quantity of milk ; to this 
add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, aod 
about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. TakeUiree 
pounds of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
such parts as were colored by the fire, and 
pound them with a pound of fresh butter; 
when a smooth paste, add diree-quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of whipped cream, the whites 
whipped firm, and finish the custard as di- 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade by boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, dieo pound 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
this, add a quarter of a pound of any other 
fruit marmalade; mix them well op with an 
e()ual weight of sugar boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake it 
as cherry, or any other paste. 

CHINESE TEMPI.E. Having boiled 
an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till cold, and then add to it an egg well 
beaten. With this, make four ounces of 
flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it out as 
thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins 
die form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. Wiien cold, take die paste 
from the tin», and join each piece together 
according to the proper forms, with isin- 
glass and water. The lower part, of 
course, ought to be stronger than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must be cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
finjs. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a 
pound and a half of the best sugar, finely 
sifted ; soak some gum-flragon in orange- 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please ; the paste must be stiff; 
dry them in a stove. You may write de- 
vices on paper, roll them np, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Pet a 
quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fiw*, 
to dissolve it; and having boiled ivreip 



CHO 



2n 



CHO 



•f mgar to forte perU, put a spoonful or 
two into the chocolate ; «tir it till it fornui a 
Cliin paste, and then pour it on the sugar, 
and boil both together to caramel. In the 
meantime melt a little butter, skim, and 

£)ur it off clear into a hasin ; take a spooa- 
1 of it, and rub it witli your hand over a 
marble slab or table: on this pour the choco- 
bte and sugar ; then take two ends of a 
sword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apart all down it ; cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in 
■mail squares all over ; doing it as quick as 
possible, lest the sugar sliould cool before 
vou have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
Detween the marble and the stigar ; lay un- 
der Uie latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to the 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over tlie fire ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of »uu»e pa^n or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether; then spread it over some wafer 
riiapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If the paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bohu Ar* 
menicum. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Pi». 
folve two ounces of good chocolate in a 
little water, put it into a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiJed to perle ; keep the 
sugar stirring, and when it boils put the 
conserve into moukls. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiere 
^/ttm«, put ^'our chocolate into it, stin*ing 
it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it ob a 
pewter sheet or plute, and put it in the 
oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put 
it into a copper stewpan, with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered siigar; 
mix it well over the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
pot them on white paper, and when they 
are ail on, take the sheet of paper by each 
comer, and lift it up and down so that the 
paper may touch the table each time, and 
by tiiat means you will see the drops come 
quite fiit, about the size of a sixpence ; put 
tome sugar nonpareils over them, and cover 
all that are on the paper, then shake tliem 
off, and you will see all the chooobie Jlrofm \ 



are covered with the sngar nonpareils; lot 

them stand till cold, and tliey will coioe off 
well, and then put them in a box papered. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (1) 
Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it over 
the fire in a small pan ; wlien uielted |K>or 
it into that in which you are to make your 
creain ; bi^eak your yolks of egg% into' it, 
(four esgs to every pint of cream) add some 
potmded loaf 8ug;ir to it, ke^ stirring (»n- 
tinually; then add your cream by little and 
little, stirfing and turning it till tlie whole 
is Hiixed properly together; tlien iwt your 
pan over iiie fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your composition 
is near boiling, tiien take it off imnoediate- 
ly, for, from the moment yon set your com- 
position over tlie fire till that it oflfers to 
boil, it has suflicieat time to incorporate 
well and thicken sufficiently, without need 
of boiling; and sliouhi you let it boil, you 
would ritik the turning your cream into 
whey, on account of the yolks of egga, which 
wou'lil do too much. Take great care 
likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, 
for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will 
turn to curds and whey ; thexefbre, be care- 
ful, stir it continually, from the time you 
set it on tlie fii'e till you take it off; thai 
put it in tlie sabot iere to make it congeal 
after tlie usual manner. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (2) . 

Dissolve die chocolate in a little water on l 
a stow fire; when properly done, mix it 
with a pint of cream, three yolks of new 
laid e^s, and about half a pound of aqgar. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 

three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix witli it half a gill of sirup, and half a 
pint of watei' ; mix it well, and freeze it 
tliiek. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Pot 
a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tin- 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is dis- 
solved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spooa- 
fiil or two of sweet almond paste, made as 
for macaroons, stir it in well, and then poor 
it upon the remainder of the almoad pstsie, 
in which you have mixed a tea-spooniiil ul 
powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both: 
beat them together well in a mortar, hy 
them on paper, and bake them Ibr three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. 

For four bottles of brandy, take one pound 
of the best chocolate, cut in small bits; a 
little salt, two cloves, and a little cinna- 
mon ; you must infiae nil in the brandy, widi 
two bottles and half a pint of water, with 



CIN 



375 



GIN 



whites of e§w8, and filter it through the {ki- 
per. You iiiii^t lie CHrefiil not to take iiitii-e 
■tlian two l)otlles fn)iu every four, exotipt 
irom llie cinnamon, from which }ou <are to 
take as much as you can get. 

CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little chocolate, which imt in a pan over the 
>fire to melt it; Rtir it with a mx)ou; wlien 
it 18 melted, take half a pound of loaf su- 
ear, pounded in a mortar and ^ified, winch 
dissolve in a little clear Avater. Wlien tirat 
•is done, put in jour choc«ilate; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little water, 
enough to bring it to thsd degree of liquidity 
that you may take it up on a knife; tlien 
take half a sheet of pi^ier, and cover it with 
little round and fiat dropx, which we call 
p€utifM, of tlie size of a sixpence ; let them 
di-y naturally -in a cupboard; and when dry, 
take them oflf from tlie.paper, and put them 
in boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 
Melt hnlf an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite di^isolved and tliick; 
Bid it tiirough a linen clodi, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whiles of 
eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half, a 
'pound of fine >powder.«ugar, mixed by de- 
giiees, and adding either more or less sugar, 
according as tlie psistc is malleable; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what fiowers or 
designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any 
^ind of corn or beans, &c. 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
:are nsade in tlie same vray as PetUs Pains 
a la IhicheMe (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. When cold fill them with 
a cream peUi$Here, mixed with two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored with vanilla ; then put three 
ounces of sifted sugar^ the same of choco- 
late, and half the white of an egg into a 
pair; stir tliese ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transparent 
glaze, with which mask the top aud sides 
of the petits paitu, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CHOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 
Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
-into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
and wlfen quite dissolved, mix it with a 
poiuid of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cianaaxMi ; stir it up well, 
and then spread it on wafer-pa|)er in what 
46rnm you please, and bake them in a mod- 
erate oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffi<- 
ciently dark colored, add a little bol-ammo- 
4iiac. 

CINNAMON CAKES. Whisk up 



half a dozen eggs wi:h Uiree table-epoonfiilf 
«»f rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a deKi!ei'l-ii|XH)nful o( powdered cinna- 
mull, and a siifiici<;nt quantity of flour to 
make it intoapante; roll it out thin, and 
cut il into whatever furms your ikiicy may 
dictate, place them un paper, and bake 
tliem. When done, remove tliem from the 
paper. Keep tliem dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (l)Soak cin- 
namon in water for four and twenty hfairs, 
and tlien cut it into pieces alraiit nn indi 
lone ; pi e|)are some sugar to grand liasi^ 
and give tlie cinnamon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence ; tlien put it in the moulds with sugar 
boiled to sovfflt^ and when lialf colli, dry 
it. Before tiie caiuiv is removed from the 
moulds, they should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 
place. 

aNNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cot 

some cinnamon into small sticks of alx)utan 
inch or an inch and a half long; then put 
them into diin sugar, and boil ihcm as it 
were in a simp. Then take off the pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, 
dry them thoroughly in the stove; after- 
wards put tliem in order in tin moulds 
upon little. grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so that there may be 
tliree rows set one alx)ve anotlier, sef)arated 
by those giates. In the meanliine, boil su- 
gar till it is blown, and pour it into your 
mould, so tliat some of it may lie upon the 
uppermost grate.; then set them in the stove 
with a covered fire, and let them stand all 
night; the next morning take notice whetlier 
the cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, with a plate underneath ; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks 
of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and 
little, gently ; then lay them i^m a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OF. 

Bruise four draclims of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little darified sugar, or sirup of mal- 
lows ; boil two pounds of sugar to petit 
cd884^ tlirow in the cinnamon, stir it well, 
and tlien take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar b^ins to whiten, pour the conserve 
into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. 

CINNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GARED. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve hours 
in water to soflen it ; at tlie end of Uiat time, 
cut it into slips, lay tliem on a sieve in a 
warm place for some days. When quite 



CIN 



274 



C'lT 



hard and dry, boil some fine sagar to the 
degree grand per le; have ready a quantity 
of fine powder, and proceed in the same 
manner as in doing Almond Dretgeet, 
until the cinnamon sticks are of the proper 
tfaickn^M ; those which are to be twisted or 
curled, should not be so thick as the others. 
Be equally particular in remoTing the sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as io 
making Almond Dragee*. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 

Infuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as much water as will cover it; the next 
day put the infiision into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
stiiTed the whiter it becomes; in rather 
more than a quarter of an hour, add to it 
the caked sugar wiiich was removed from 
the preserving-pan, and which must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonfiil of cinnamon powder, and 
fay degrees two or three pounds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water; 
when the paste is of a proper consistence, 
p&ce it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker than tlie eighth of an inch, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
cinnamon (see above,) put them on paper 
or a sieve in a warm place for some days. 
Then boil some common sugar to perle, 
and su^ar the slips of paste as almve direct- 
ed ; instead of the fine powder, flom" is suffi- 
cient, until the last two layers, when the 
powder may be nsed to give them whiteness. 
When of the requisite size, lay them on 
sieves to dry. In a few days there may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
6aine manner as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is always white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
highly rectified spirits of wrne, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of die former to an 
ounce of tlie latter. 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a kiwn sieve 
into a tnoitar, and add to it a tea-spoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient 
quantity of sifled sug-.ir to make the paste of 
a proper consistence ; form into such figures 
OS you may fency, and dry tliera in a stove. 
K^ them in a dry place. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
a pound of marchpane paste, and dilute 
it with as many whites of eggs as will 
make it spread easily with a knife; add to 
this, a SfNKjnful or two of preparetj hole-am- 
moniaey which will give it a fine led tinge. 



and half an oimoe of einnawon- powfa . 
When all these if^tredfenls are well miaedf 
cut some wafer-paper into such forms as ^ 
may think proper, and lay on them the paste 
about the thickness of the eighth of an inch; 
place them on paper, and bake them in 8- 
moderate oven. When done, they nay be 
finished in the following manner :-4oil 
some sugar in (Hranoe-fiower water, to k 
plume, and as you taae the sweetmeats fron 
the oven; dip a hair-pencil into the sinip, 
and brush them over; this dries almost iio- 
mediately, and oonaiderabiy improres tte 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Poondani 
sift six ounces of mgao', and pot it with » 
equal quantity of' melted freki butter, the 
same of Soar, half an ounce of powidered 
cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these op is 
an earthenware vessel, with a snffii^ 
quamity of milk to make it into a thin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plaie 
quite hot, nib it well with butter, then lav 
on it B spoonful of the paste; fiy it, and 
when, brown on both sides, roU it, still over 
the hot iron, round a soiaii stick; do tbii 
until all the paste is used. 

* CINNAMONUM. Take a qaarter «f 
a pound of chmnmon, two drachms of mace, 
and one ounce of stick-liqucNrioe ; bmiie 
them well, and then put them into thiee 
quarts of the best brandy; let the infwion 
stand for some days before joa distil it ; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints 
and a half of water ; mix tins sirup with the 
liqiieur, and tlien strain them. This is 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. 

CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citroos 
very thin and narrow, and throw tiiem y» 
water; these are called feg^fots; then eat 
the citron into slices of any thickness jna 
think proper ; take out tlie inner part with 
great c%fe, so as to leave only the white 
ring, and put them with the ^g^ ^"^ 
boiling water; when tender, dram them. 
Boil a sufficient quantity of cbrified sugar 
to souffle; then put in the rings, and bwl 
them together. Take it from the fire, and 
when a little cool, rub llie sugar against the 
side of the pre-erving-fian wiili the bach « 
a spoon ; as soon as it liecomes white, take 
«nit the rings with a fork very cartffolly, o« 
by one, and lay tliem on a wire-grate to 
drain: b»)il and proceed witli the feggote'" 
a similar way ; wiien taken oui, cat lbe« 
imo proper lengths with a pair of wiMony 
and lay tliem abo on the wire to drain. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ends 
of the citrons,, take oat die middle, with aj 
the seeds; boil them in mxatt water; atti 



CIT 



275 



COP 



ytrbitn qoite Unider, take them fixmi the fire, 
and throw tiiein into cold water a moment ; 
then, Inving pressed them in a cloth to get 
the water out, pound and sifl them. To 
every quarter of a pound of this marmalade 
pat half a pound of clarified sugar ; simmer 
tbem together, stirring constantly until well 
mixed ; then put them into moulds^ and place 
them in a stove to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 
Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in 
•alt and water for four or five hours; tlien, 
having washed tliem in cold water, boil 
tbem; when tender, drain, and lay them 
into as ;nuch clarified sugar as will co\'er 
them. The next day drain oflf the siiup, 
and boil it; when quite snnooth and colH, 
pmir it on tlie citrons; let tbem stand twen- 
ty-foiu* hours; then boil the simp again, 
and put in the citrons. Tlie third day, 
boil both together, and pat tbem into moulds 
to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 
Cut a siil in the sides of some small citrons, 
so tliat the inside may take the sugar an 
well atf the <iutside, and put tliem over the 
fire in some u'ater ; whenever iliey are near 
boiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw tliem into cold water. They 
must tlien be put on tlie tire again, in the 
same water, and boiled gently until tender; 
then take tliem out, and pot tliem in ci>ld 
water. After this, boil them seven or eight 
times in clarified- siig:tr ; pour tlie whole 
into an earthen pan, and 4et it stand. The 
next day drain tlie fruit, and boil up tlie 
sirup twenty oi* thirty time<); add a little 
more sugar, and pour it over tlie (-itrunti!; 
clo thio for three successive dayi>, increasing 
tbe degrf^ to which yon boil the sugar daily, 
8o that at the last boiling llie degree may 
be au perle. The fruit may then be put 
into pots. 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, iiwlead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they nhould be dried on 
sieves in a stove. With tbe remaining su- 
gar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
eight citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
ainall pieces, and put tliem into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let tlieiii infuse 
ibr tliree w<H>k8; tlien add to this a pound 
of sugar, lioiled in half a pint of Matei'« an! 
well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifteen 
days k*nger, when it may be Imltled, 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into 
a china UiwI alternate liivei*sof fine powder- 
migaTf and ciu*on, pared, and cut in very 



thin sKoes, and let them stand till the neU 
day; then strain ofi* the sirup, and clarify it 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put die 
rinds of Uiree citrons into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice ; to this 
put a little water; pour the mixture into a 
basin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fori boulet. Place tliis 
basin in a large siiucepan, half filled with 
water, over tlie fire ; stir the contents of 
the basin frequently; and wlien the sugar is 
entirelv disHolved, and tlie simp quite clear, 
take the amcepan from tlie fire, and let it 
ccKil. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts uf tlie best brandy, take the 
xe»tt» or rinds of a dozen fine sound lem- 
ons, two dmciiins of Imiised cinnamon, an 
ounce of cori^iidci-, and two pounds of sa- 
^r, distMtlved in a pint and a half of water; 
infuse the wliole fur a month, tlien strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in 
the same manner an cinnamonum ; the quanti- 
tiet* are, an otmce of duves to tlH*ee quarts 
of hrHiidy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in f 'ur pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
tli(»tie of rin'iHiiton. The proportions are- 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a quarter 
of a pound «f cloveti, and a quart of Ixjiling 
water into a Htewpan, cover it clise, and 
boil tlieui gently for half an hour; drain the 
cloveti, anti to a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugiir ; l)eat up two eggs in a little- 
coM water, add them to the abtive, and sim- 
mer the whole till it b^omesa strong sirup^ 
Wiien cold, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take alwut a 
pint of cofiee made widi water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-siigai' ; set it on the fire and 
Ixiil it to a higli degree; then add a full pint 
of double rreiiin, and let it Iwil again, keep- 
ing continually Htin ing till \i comes to cara- 
mel height; to know when it is come to 
tliat |V)int, you mibit have a basin of water 
by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quit-kly in your 'sugar, then in the water 
agtiin, to remove the sugar, which will have 
Muck to it; take a bit of it in your teeth; 
if it if hard in its crackling, tal(e it ofif, it 
i.s sufficiently done; |X)ur it u|K)n a tin plate» 
which muKt be rubl)ed before jvjtli a little 
butter, or it will titir.k to the plate; then 
*»piead it with a rolling pin; ^ojLwtjrve, the 



cow 



376 



CUE 



rollhi^ pm moBt likewise be robbed with 
butter, lor fear it should stick ; ) when it is 
warm, you may cut it into little squares, lo- 
lenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over them witli a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES, aarify and 
boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; 
take the sugar ofT the fire, and put into it 
orte cup of coffee ; stir it alxHit until it coraes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserve may 
take the sugar and dry. 



COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sngar according to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of es^, with 
about four cups of cotoc, and sifl it ; pour 
this into little moulds in the' form of eggs, or 
of any other, (do not fill them quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan; cover between two 
fires. Tliey are mac^ afler this manner, in 
tlie shape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
propor moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
colbifoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, 
hys»ip one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; 
boil ihem in two quarts of spring water till 
one fourth is consumed ; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it till it is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all sorts 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; they are all made much after 
the same manner, the only diflerence being 
in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifled in a «ieve, and soaked 
]nietty dry over a slow fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well together; warm the whole fur a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
the purpose ; when it is cool it may be cat 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 
Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three potmds of sugar. Bruise your 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
It till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, 
skim, and boil it to caase; take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
QQ again, and give it one boil, take it off. 



and keep stirring till the sugar babbles, whea 
the conserve may be poured into mooUs. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 

These are nuide in the same mamier at 
other conserves, except diat they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic wa- 
ter ; and may be colored like pastik* 

CORIANDER DRAGEE3. Take any 
quantity of coriander seeds, put tbem in (he 
toesing-pan over the fire, and let them warm ; 
when they are warm throw in about half a 

flass of vinegar, stir them well tiR th^ ars 
ry ; have clarified sugar, which boil in an- 
other pan ; then when the corianders we 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
same again till tfiey are dry, and continoe 
so doing till you see the corianders are cov- 
ered to the size you want to have them; 
when that is done, take the corianders ool 
from the pan, wash them well, and put thoa 
in again, and stir them well till they are aB 
warm ; then take your clarified sugar, which 
you have previously boiled to tli^ first de- 
gree ; when this is done, put it in ao iastni- 
ment of copper, made on purpoi« tor the 
operation, and at the bottom of which diere 
is a little hole; hang it up by a papkthread 
string, that the sugar may fall from about a 
yard height into the pan where the Curian- 
dens are;, while the sugar falls into your paa 
keep stirring well yom* dragees till you see 
the;^ are well pearled over, or rough and 
grainy ; when- they are sufficiently so, taitt 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CCmiANDER SUGARED. These 

seeds are sugared in the same manner as 
sugared almoufls. 

CREAM, BAIN-MARIE. Mix op 

whate^'er ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, with e^'and sugar ; for tlis 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them through a fine sieve, and pour 
the preparation into a mouU lightly battered 
witliin side. Put this mould into a lai^ 
saucepan, with a sufficient qimmity of bod- 
ing water to reach within an inch of the 
mould ; place the saucepan on hot adies, 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, is 
as to keep the water at tlie same tempera* 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if ihs 
cream is properly set, which may be knows 
by touching it with your finger, and obMrv^ 
ing whether it may be easily detached frxaa 
the mould, take it from the 6aia-fiiarts and 
let it stand ; when no more than lukewanoo, 
turn it out on your dish. 
It sometimes happens, oaa^dably^ that 



Cb& 



^1 



Cftd 



bugles arise on the surface of the cream ; 
io such a cade, boil a v|at» of cream, and 
add to it, by decrees, three volks of eggs; 
stir it constant^ with a wooden spoon ; mix 
three ounces of fine sugar witli it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over the fire, till oPa proper 
consistence, and on ihe point of boiling, 
then take it off and strain it. When the 
(Sream is ready for tible> cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
hide its defects. 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
sq^rate the yolka and whites, beat Uie 
former with six ounces of powder-su^r, 
luid the same of flour ; whisk the whites. 
Rod 4hen mix them together; add to it 
whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and flour> stir it carefully, pour this into 
moukls or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit 
of cinnamon, some coriander-eeeds, and 
tlie peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil tliem for a quarter of an hour ; 
then take it off the fire ; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color ; 
take it off the fii«, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire again, until the sugar 
and cream are well mixed (ogedier; then 
place a saucepan, with some hot water in 
It, over hot ashes; take a dish, in which 
you intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in tlie saucepan; put 
on the lid of the saucepan, with fire aliove, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot, 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, 
four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
li-oth; remove the peel, and serve in a djsh. 

CREAM OP ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of tlie pulp 
of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, 
put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat 
together well for an hour; take it off with 
a epoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
^lasB salver, with other creams, or put it 
in tlie middle of a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rliflniil} wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, and half a pound of sugar; while 
this is bciiling, take seven yolks and whites 
of ^g8, l>eat them well togetl)er with a 
wbif*K, till your wine is half diiven in diem, 
and your em to a sirup; strike it very fiist 
wnah the wQsk. till it comes to such thick- 



ness that you may lift it on the point o^ * 
knife^ but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; garnish it 
with citron, sugar^ or biscuit^ and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 

quantity of ci-eam, add to it yolks of eggs id 
proportion (that is» four yolks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a little half pound- 
ed coriander) cinnamon^ orange or lemen- 
peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon*' 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream^ ' 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan ; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it three* 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar^ and 
as soon as it is perfectly difiHolvedt pour the 
whole into a »or better e, which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed^ 
See SherbeU 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and strain 
them ; tlien beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; 
and as the snow rises take it up with a 
spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part 
may run out: when you have taken off as 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, 
«ome cloven, and a little bruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick; strain it, and when 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 

Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
when it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot aehee; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. Wlien cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See M^Atp- 
ped Cream, 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 
Use the best puff paste; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into different shapes, as &ncy 
leads; bake it, and dress eadi piece upon 
a disli, in a handsome manner; rub them 
with a little caramel, to make tliem stick 
as you place them; tlien put some currant 
jelly all over the top, and make what flow- 
er or design yon please, with noDporeili of 
difieraot cokira, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Take 



CUR 



279 



cvn 



m rtick of Tanilla, potind it with two 
oQDoes or MigBr, aod sifl both through a 
■ilk siere; mix h with aeveii ounces of 
■agar, well dried and pminded, and half 
a pound of fine sifted iluur; then stir in the 
whites of four ^gs, whipped firm, and 
work the whole togetlier fur some minutes. 

Heat two large baking- plates of copper, 
rub them over lightly \f\th virgin wax ; when 
thev are cot:i, take a spuonful oif the prepa- 
ration, and lay it on the plate the same as 
the spoon-bisciiitu, taking care to lay them 
three-quarters of an inch apart ; when both 
plates are fnll, place tliem on stools, in the 
oven or stove ; close the top, and bv embers 
over it, m that the croquettes may be as &r 
nmoved from the fire as poraible ; let them 
jnemain in this state all night; the next 
momii^ put them into a moderate ot'en, and 
bake them fifteen or twenty minutes; they 
should then quit the plate easily, and be of 
a clear reddish color; remove them from^ 
die plates whilst hot. The croquette* 
waay be flavored according to your fitncy. 

CURACAO. This is a species of bitter 
or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, 
and may be had ut tlie druggists. To make 
the Kqiieur called by this name, wash a 
pound of curacao several times in warm 
water; then, having well drained, put them 
into a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and 
one of water; let it stand closely covered 
for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; distil 
it after that in tiie usual way, and drain the 
curacao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five 
pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in 
three pints of water, mix it with the spirit 
and then filter it. 

CURDS AND WHEY. Take a num- 
ber of the rough coats that line the gizzards 
of turkeys and fowls; clean them ^ra the 
pebbles they contain, rub them well with 
salt, and Itang them to di-y. This makes a 
more tender and delicate curd than common 
rennet. When to lie used, break off some 
bits of the Hkin, and put on it some boiling 
water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor 
as you do other rennet. 

CURRANT CAKES. Pick and wash 
fho currants, either white or red ; to two 
quarts of cun-ants, put one pint of water; 
when boiled, run tlie juice through a jelly 
bs^, do not press the bag ; to one quart of 
juice put tliree pounds of sugar; boil up the 
juice, and strew in the sugar ; pour it into 
glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, 
then dry the cakes on plates. 

CURRANTS, CONSERVE OF. 
Take tlie seeds from two pounds of red cur- 
rants, aod put them on the fire in a silver 



pan, to dry them ; then press tbem- tfaroi^ 
a sieve, and put them again on tlie fire, stiT" 
rinff constantly until yoa can see the bottom 
of Uie pan; then, having dissolved and boil- 
ed three pounds of sugar to eateet pour it on 
the fruit, stirring continually; in a short 
time take it off, stirring it as before until it 
bubbles; then pour it into moulds. 

CURRANT ICES. (1) Boil two poondi 
of red currants a moment with a quarter of 
a pound of raspberries; nib tliem through a 
sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the 
', which must be very wett diiBohei) 

tore icing. 

CURRANT ICES. (2) Pick some car- 
rants from their stalks, and squeeze then 
through a sieve; tlien take clarified sugar, 
boil it to a very hi^ deg^ree, add it to yoor 
currant juice, amd, if you choose, sqneeie ia 
the juice of four lemons, it will make it 
more mellow; strain them diroogfa theHiew 
a second time, put them in the king pot, aod 
finish the same as att other ices. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. Takeooe 
large spoonful ^nd a half of currant jeilyt 
put it into a basin, with half a gill of siropt 
squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint 
of cream and a Kttle cochineal, then pias it 
through a sieve, and fireexe it according to 
custom. 

CURRANT WATER ICE. Take a 
large spoonful and a half of currant jdly, pot 
it into a basin, and add to it the juice uf 
two lemons, half a gill of sirup, and a piflC 
of water: then freeze it rich. 

CURRANT JELLY FRAMBOISEE. 
Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, 
three of white, and two of white raspber- 
ries, press them through a very close horse- 
hair sieve; pour the juice on nine poundi 
of double-refined sugar, broken in onall 
pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, tak- 
ing care to remove the scum as sooo as it 
appears. When tlie boilings foHow each 
other very quickly, take out the skimiDer, 
(whidi should be of copper) stir it, and let 
tlie jelly &N from it ; ou quitting the skim- 
mer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does 
so, it is sufficiently done. Tliis j^iy sbooU 
be rose-colored ; by makii^ it entirely of 
rod currants and i^ raspberries, the color 
of the jelly win be red. 

-. ■■■• 

CURRANT PASH^c^Pick and takt 
the seeds from ten pounds of fine red car- 
rants, crush them, and having pressed oot 
tlie juice, strain it tlirough a silk sieve. 
Clarify and boil to easee an equal qoantjij 
of sugar, pour the cumint juice on k, Ktthe 



DRA 



279 



DRA 



whole over a gentle fire, •tirring ooiwtantly 
iintil it becomes c{ a proper conewtence, 
which may be known by obe«rving when the 
bottom of the pan can tie seen clearly; take 
it off from the fire as soon as that is the 
case, and pour tiie paste into tin moulds, 
which must be placed on slates, or copper 
phtes: smoolli the tops with the blade (k'a 
knife, spi'inkle sifted suear over, and place 
them in a stove, where uiey must remain till 
next day; when tlie paste should be turned 
in the moulds; sprinkle sifted sugar over 
them again, and set them in the stove a 
second night; on the fiillowing day remove 
them from the moulds, lay it in boxes, with 
white paper between each layer, and keep 
them m a dry place. A sixth part of the 
quanti^ of raspberries added to the currants, 
would greatly improve the flavor of this 
paste. 

CURRANT PASTILS. Take half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then 
a quantity of currants, which squeeze through 
a sieve ; when that is done, add the juice to 
the sugar, till it makes a paste as clear and 
thick as you think proper. 

CURRAPrr SHRUB. To five pints of 
currant juice, either red or white, one pound 
and a l^lf of loaf sugar; when dissolved, 
put to it one gallon of rum or brandy ; clear 
It throiigh a flannel bag. 

CURRANT SIRUP. Put five or six 
pounds oi red, two of white currants, and 
two bottles of raspberries, into a sieve ; crush 
them, and press tlie juice through it into a 
pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment ; in a 
week's time, pass the juice through a strain- 
ing bag, and having clarified, and boiled to 
fort Bouffie four pounds of sugar, put the 
juice to it, and boil them together once; 
akita, and take it from the fire. It is ne- 
cessary that the currant juice sliould ferment, 
to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles. 



D. 

DRAGEES, COMMON. The paste for 
these dragee9 is made in the same manner 
as for the better sort, but the materials difler 
a little: tlius to a quarter of a pound of the 
gum, take either equal quantities. of sugar 
and powder, or one-third of tlie former to 
tv^o-thirds of the latter. Wlien tliese and 
rhe gum are well mixed, roll out the paste 
uotiT it is as thin as the back of a knife- 
blade ; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like 
a sugar-luaf, with the top taken off, with the 
largest end of which, cut as many pieces of 
the paste as will about two-thirds fill the 

24 



cutter; press these through the smaller end 
into paper cases ; set them in a warm plaoa 
for several days. These kind of dragetB 
may, if liked, be sugared in the same maa- 
ner as almonds. 

DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. The» 
dragees are made of the same materials as 
the superfine dragtfS the only difference 
consists in their forms, which resemble the 
bonboiu: to make them, it is necessary to 
have a number of wooden moulds, (pear- 
tree wood is the best), on which must be 
stamped small squares, with various devices 
engraved on them. Cut your paste into 
snuill pieces; press each piece on a mould; 
take off all the super-abundant paste ; then 
dip your finger in water, and with it remove 
the paste from the mould ; dry them in cases 
like the other drageet. 

DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Put m 

quarter of a pound of tlie best gum-dragoa 
into a pan, with a pint of cold water, cover* 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours; then 
take a strong close cloth, about two feet 
long, and put a part of your gum into it; 
fekfit three times, so as to envelope the gum ; 
then wring tlie cloth, by which means the 
purest gum will be forced through; scrape 
it off carefully with a knife, and then proceed 
in tlie same way, until all the gum be strain- 
ed ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it 
about with a pestle for half an hour; then 
add to it a pound of double-refined sifted 
sugar; mix tnem together well, until it be- 
comes a stiff paste; divide tliis into five 
parts, four of which must Ije tinged as fol- 
lows: red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth 
left white), with the usual coloring materials. 
Before, however, they are colored, add to 
each piece, a pound and a half of double- 
refioed sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in 
water occasionally, to enable it to receive 
the additional quantity of sugar. When yoa 
mix in the coloring materials, add also a 
coiTesponding peifume: vm, to the red, rose- 
water, and a few drops of essence of I'oses; 
to the blue, oil of violets; to tlie yellow, es- 
sence of cedar; to the green, essence «f 
beigamot ; and with the white, mix a little 
orange-flower water, and some drops of es- 
sence of Neroli. 

Your paste being thus prepared, form it 
of wliatever little ornaments you please, such 
as eggt<, balls, turnips, (adding green leaves 
to thi^), &c. of tlie wliite; of the yelk>w« 
apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c. 
of tlie blue ; and so on ; rolling them in your 
hands to smooth them, and make them all 
quite small; to those which imitate fruits* 
add tails and tops, cut from cherry-stalks* 
and stuck on whilot the paste is damp; and 
with a bair-peucil, dipped in powderad cia- 



EGO 



^0 



PIL 



r, tinge the penni, apples, and apricots, 
lightly lireatliing on Uiem to moisten the 
Mrface. When all are done, put tliein into 
paper cases, and set them in a warm place 
KM- several days, to dry. 



E. 

EGGS CARAMEL. Take the yolks 
of a dozen hard eggs, bruise diem in a sauce- 

Csn, with some powder-sugar, three almond 
iscuits, and half a glass of cream ; make 
these into a paste, of ivhich form little eggs, 
dip them in cai-amel sugar, and brown them. 

EGGS DUCHESSE. Boil a pint and 
alialf of cream with some sugar, orange 
dower, candied lemon-peel, marchpane, and 
laimt almonds, all chopped small or bruised ; 
frhip up the whites of eight eggs welt, and 
then take two or three sp6<infub of tliem at 
■ time, and poach them in the cream ; drain, 
and lay them on a dish, so as to resemble 
C{;g8 poached without the yolks. When all 
Ihe whites are thus used, put the cream on 
Ihe fira, and reduce it, and as the dish is 
■ent to table, add the volks to the crcam, 
And pour the sauce gently over the eggs. 

EGGS FILAGRAMME. Take a pint 
of white wine, half a \ioand of fine powder- 
flugar, and make it into a clear sirup with 
fhe white of an egg; beat up well eight 
C;ggs, and pour tlicm ihniugh a colander 
into the sirup ; a very short time is sufficient 
|o cook them. Serve either hot or cold. 

EGGS OF SNOW. Break ten eggs, 
and having separated the vulks and whites, 
ivhip the latter as for biscuits; then add 
two spoonfuls of poivder-sugar, and a little 
dried orange-flower in powder. Pour a 
<{uart of milk, six ounces of powdernpugar, 
and a little orange-flower, into a saucepan, 
and when it boils put into ir, a dessert-spoon- 
fiil at a time, of the white of egg ; poach the 
^tter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. 
Then beat up the yolks* and mix tliera with 
fialf the milk, put it on tlie fire, and stir it 
with a wooden-spoon till it begins to thick- 
en; then take it off, lay tlie poaclied eggs in 
a dish, and cover them with tlie yolks and 
milk. 

EGGS, WHITE OF. To make a dish 
of these, take the whites of twelve eggs, 
tieat them up witli four ^xwnfuls of ruse-wa- 
ter, some lemon-peel grated, and a little 
Butmeg; sweeten tliera with sugar, mix 
Ihem well, and boil them in four bladders ; 
lie them in the shape of an egg, and boil 
hard; they will taka half an hour; 



lay them in a dish ; when cold, mix half a 
pint of tliick cream, a gill of mountain, and 
the juice of half an orange all together; 
sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over 
tlie eggs. 



FILBERT BISCUITS. Take some 
Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them io a mor- 
tar to break thejr shells ; pick all the Ate^ 
fi-om them clean, pound them in a mortur 
very fine, and mix whites of e^ga with them ; 
take care they d4i not oil ; mix three pound* 
of powdered-sugar, with the miis and whiles 
of ^SS^t ^ ^ proper tliickness ; let your oven 
be ofa moderate heat, then with the spaddfe 
and knife, drop small pieces, aboat half a« 
big as a nutmeg; put two or three sheets of 
paper under tliera, let them bake of a fine 
brown, and all alike; and let them be oold 
before you take them off the paper. 

FILBERT CANNELLONS. Born 

and pound six ocmces of filberts, moist- 
ening them with white of esg; when wed 
pounded, add a quarter of^a pound of 
fine pounded sugar, and half tb& while of an 
egg; dry this paste a little, and then press 
it througii a syringe, cutting the eannetUm 
about four indies in length ; make the fru 
ture quire hot, dip the cannellona in baiter, 
and fry them. Sprinkle them with wgar, 
and glaze them with a salamander, lake 
particular care to keep the cannellona per- 
fectly straight. 

FILBERT BURNT, ICE CREAM. 
Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the ovea, 
and pound them a little with some cream; 
put four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint 
of cream and two gills of sirup; boil it lifi it 
becomes thick, pass it throi^h a sieve, and 
freeze it; then mix the filberts with it be- 
fore you put it into your moukJs. 

FILBERT MACAROONS. Take a 
pound of filberts, and put a quarter of then 
into a preser^'ing^n (immediately aAiryoa 
have taken diem from the shelb,) over a 
moderate fire ; stir them continual!^ with a 
silver spoon, until they are colored, and the 
skin b^ins to {leel on; tlien take them oat; 
rub off* die skin entirely, and when qails 
cold, pound them with a little white of egg: 
proceed in the same m^ner with the re- 
maining three-qiiarturtUjlJIHi when aM are 
thus pounded separatd|^ put the whole to- 
gether into the mortar, with a pound of 
sugar, and the whites of two e;^, and heal 
them for ten minutes; afier which, add two 
pounds more of sifted sugar, ptevv/uslyheBt- 



GOO 



281 



GRE 



ep up with six whites of eggs ; stir all these 
together weU for five or six minuteB, wlien 
the preparation should be sufficiently firm, to 
prevent its spreading when laid ; if, how- 
ever, it be too firm, add to it more white of 
egg. When you have proceeded so far, wet 
the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful 
of the preparation to the size and furm of a 
nutmeg; when all done, dip your hands in 
water, and pass them gently over the maca- 
roons, which will make their surface smooth 
and diining; put them into a nearly cold 
oven ; close it tight, and let them remain in 
k for three-quarters of an hour. Lay the 
macaroons at least an inch apart, and as 
round as possible. 

FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify sn- 
ear to a caramel height, which may be 
Known by dipping in a fork, and if it throws 
the sugar as fine as threads, put in the flow- 
ers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the 
insides rubbed with sweet oil ; put into each 
enp foar table-spoonfuls oS the sugar and 
flowers, and when cold turn tliem out of the 
cups, and serve them to table piled one upon 
another. 

FRUIT BISCUITS. To the pulp of 
any scalded fruit, pot an e^^iml quantity of 
sugar sifted, beat it two hoiiii>; then pat it 
into little white paper forms; dry them in a 
cool oven, turn them the neait day, and in 
iwo or three days box them. , 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, BISCUITS 
OF. Take dried preserved fniits, such as 
apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, 
and a little orange-flower marmalade; 
pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; 
then mix it with yolks of new laid eggs, and 
fine powder-sugar, until it comes to a supple 
paste, not too liquid; then bake them on 
paper in a moderate oven. 



GINGER, CANDIED. Put an ounce 
^rf" ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted 
augar into a preserving-pan with as much 
water as will dissolve it. Stir them well 
together over a slow fire, till the sugar be- 
ffins to boil ; then add another poumJ, stir- 
ring constantly till it thickens. Take it 
from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set 
them in a warm place to dry, and they will 
be hard and brittle and look white. 

GOOSEBERRY CAKES. Break the 
gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain 
U tJirough a muslin ; to one pint of juice a 
pottod (» sugar; boil up the juice; strew in 



the sugar: stir it well; simmer it well till 
the sugar is melted; pour it into glasses: 
dry it in a stove till it will turn out, thett 
dry the cakes on plat«8. 

GOOSEBERRIES, GREEN. COM- 
POTE OP. Give tliem a little cut on one 
side to squeeze out the meds, and put them 
in hot water to scald, till they rise to the 
top; then put cold water to them, adding a 
little salt, to bring them to their natural 
green; simmer them in clarified sugar, and 
let them remain in sometime to imbibe tlie 
sweet; take them out, and put them in the 
compotier ; reduce the sirup to a good con* 
sistence, and pour it over the fruit. This 
is for green gooseberries ; but if you make 
use of preserved ones, warm them in their 
own sirup and a little water, and serve it 
either hot or cold. These will not keep 
lon^, particularly, if they have been wanned 
again: if exposed to the air any time, they 
will lose their cobr. 

GRAPE ICE. Take ripe grapes, pick 
them from their stalks, pass tliem through 
a sieve; mix some sugar with the juice of 
four lemons squeezed upon it; pass the 
whole together a secona time through a 
sieve, then freeze it. 

GRAPES RATAFIA. Take some 
finer muscadine grapes, pick them from the 
stalks ; bruise and press diem, so as to ex* 
tract all their juice ; then dissolve some su- 
gar in the grape juice, adding to it l)randy 
and cinnamon ; \ex the whofe infuse for a 
fortnight ; then strain it through a filtering 
bag, and bottle it off". The proper propor- 
tions are one pint of brandy, and ten ounces 
of sugar to one pint of grape juice. 

<?REEN.GAGES TO CANDY. When 
finished in the sirup, (see green-gaget to 
preserve^) put a layer into a new sieve, 
and dip it stiddenly into hot water, to take 
off tlie simp Unit hangs aixMit it ; then put 
it on a napkin liefore tlie fire to drain, and 
then do some more on the sieve. Have 
ready some sifted double-refinefl sugar, sifl 
this all over every part of the fruit, till it is 
perfectly while. Set it on the tslmllow end 
of sieves in a liglitly warm oven, and turn 
it two or three times. It must not be cokl 
till dry. Watch it carefully. 

GREEN GAGES TO PRESERVE. 

You must clK)ose the largest, when they be- 
gin to soften; split without paring tliem, and 
having previously weighed an equal quanti- 
ty of sugar, sti'ew a part of it over themj 
blanch the kernels with a small shai'p knile $ 
next day, pour the sirup from the fruit, and 
boil it with tlie other sugar, very gently, for 



JUN 



2Si 



LEM 



urx or eight mimitei; akim, and add the 
plonM and kernels. Simmer till clear, 
Uking off any scum tbat rises ; put rhe firuit 
■ingle into small pots, and pour the simp 
•nd kernels upon it. 

GUM PASTE. Put a pound of gam- 
dragon in a basin, with warm water enough 
to cover one inch above the gum ; set this m 
a warm closet for four and twenty hoars ; 
have a new tammy ready laid over* a dish ; 
spread it on it, and squeeie through as 
much as you can at first; then open the 
tammy, spread the gum out again, and then 
squeeze it; repeat this till the whole is 
ttiroiigh; tlien lay it on the slab, work it 
well with your hand, put in nearly all the 
juice of one lemon, and a pound ot the best 
double refined powder-siigar, by degrees, as 
you work it ; but before you liave put in the 
whole of the sugar, begin lo add some of 
the best starch powder; blend diem thor- 
oughly together, till the paste begins to 
lake an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, 
and let it stand in a damp place for a week 
or ten days, (it is the lielter for keeping), 
work it with powder, and it will cut and 
mould to any sliape you please, and when 
you want it to harden, set it in a dry place ; 
if you wish to color it, to make it red, use 
cochineal or carmine; for blue or violet 
color, use indigo ; for yellow, saffi-on ; (<Mr 
green, tlie juice of beet leaves, scalded over 
the fire, the thick part mix with tlie paste. 
When you put in colors, be cai-eful to blend 
them well, and be particular tliat tlte coior 
is good. 



H. 

HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three 
pints of water; when reduced lo half a pint, 
strain it tiiraugli a jelly-bag ; put it to a 
pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, and give them one lx>il to- 
gether ; then put it into cu|ie or glasses, and 
kt them stand till cold, when turn them out 
onadisli; stick some sliced blanched al- 
monds on the top of each. White wine 
and sugar is usually eaten with them. 



JUNIPERBERRIES.ICESOF. In- 
luse some juniper berries in warm water, 
or take about a handful of the berries, and 
boil them a moment with a pint of water, 
half a pound or sugar, and a bit of cinna- 
mon, and sift them through a sieve with ex- 
pression, and finish the same as all others. 



JUNIPER RATAFIA. Taki! Am 

ounces of juniper berries, anise, corian- 
der, cinnamon, and cbves, of each eight- 
een grains; bruise all these ingredieots, and 
infu« them, (or a month, in dnree piBta of 
brandy; then strain it, add three-qoartera 
of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint 
of water, stir them together, pass the whole 
through a jelly-bag, and bottle it; keep it 



LEMON BRANDY. Put the peel of 
two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it 
stand for four and twenty hours, then strain 
it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in a qmr* 
ter of a pint of water ; then mim, and let it 
stand till ooU; when cold, mix it with the 
brandy. 

LEMON CAKES. Quarter as many 
lemons as you think proper, they must have 
good rinds, and boil them in two or three 
waters, till they are tender, and have lost 
their bitterness; then skin them, and put 
them in a napkin to fry; with a knife take 
all the skin8 and seeds out of the pntp, shred 
the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh 
them, and put rather inor» than thefr woi^ 
of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just 
fcufficient water to dissolve the si^ar ; boil 
it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and 
then by degi-ees put in the peel and pulps; 
stir them welt before you set them on the 
fire, boil it very gently till it looks dear and 
thick, and then put it into fiat-bottomed 
glasses ; set them in a stove, and keep them 
in a continual and moderate heat» and tura 
them out upon glasses, as soon as they are 
candied. 

LEMON COMPOTE. Cut them in 
small pieces, and boil them in water till 
they are tender, then change than into cold 
water ; then make a sirup with a glass d 
water, and a qututer of a pound of su^r, 
and pot in tlie fruit; let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an boar, and serve 
ooM. 

LEMON CONSERVE. Grate the rinJ 
of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about a 
pound,) scrape off the surface of the sugar 
as the lemon adheres to it, until you have 
rasped the whole of the rind ; sqiieeie half 
the juice on the scraped sugar, and tbea 
boil the rest to /a grande plume; take H 
fr«>m the fire when at this d^ree, and let it 
stand a little; stir in tl)e lemun gently, and 
when it forms a sort o( gloee on the top of 
the sugar, pour the oonserve into mouldas 



LEM 



283 



LEM 



being careful, however, tbat it is not too 
hot. 

LEMON DROPS. Grate three large 
lemons, with a large piece of double refined 
sugar; then scrape the si^r into a plate, 
add half a tea-spoonful of flour ; mix well 
together, and beat it into a li^ht paste, with 
the white of an egg. Drop it upon white 
paper, put them on a tin-plate, and set them 
in a moderate oven. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. Take the juice 
of three or four lemons, and grate the peel 
of one lemon; add two ^ills of sirup, and 
one pint of cream ; mix it all together, pass 
it through a sieve, and freeze it. 

LEMONS TO KEEP FOR PUD- 
DINGS. When ]^u squeeze the fruit, 
throw the outside in water, without the 
pulp ; let them remain in the same a fort- 
night, adding no more ; boil tliem in the 
same till tender ; strain it from tliem, and 
when they are nearly dry, throw them into 
any jar of candy you may have remaining 
from old sweetmeats ; or, if you have none, 
boil a small quantity of sirup, of common 
loaf sugar and water, and pour over tliem ; 
in a week or ten days, boil them gently in 
it till they look clear ; and tliat they may 
be covered with it in the jar, you may cut 
each half of the fruit in two, and tliey will 
occupy a smaller space. 

LEMON PASTILS. Takehatfapoimd 
of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- 
sible ; put it in a plate, take three or four 
lemons, and squeeze their juice over die su- 
par; mix it well with a spoOn, till you make 
It rather a tiiickish paste, so that von can 
take it upon a knife; then take haH a sheet 
of paper, and cover it with little round and 
fiat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place 
them in a stove with a slow fire till they are 
quite dry, then take them off from tlie paper ; 
you may use, if you please, some of the peel 
erated, but not chipped ; for, as it is a melt- 
ing pastil, some of the bits would remain in 
the mouth. 

LEMON PEEL CANDIED. Take 
some thick-rinded lemons, pare olT tlie yel- 
low peel, and throw it into boiling water till 
aofl, when it must be put into cold water. 
Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it au petit 
HMe, and having drained the lemon-peel, 
pour on it tlie sirup (whilst hot) ; the next 
day boil the simp again, and return it to the 
peel ; the third ami fouith days proceed in 
the same manner, adding a small <iuantity of 
clarified sugar; the last time the simp is 
boiled. as soon as it rises to perhy put in 
the peel, cover and boil tlie whole together 



once, and when cold, drain and dry them ia 
a stove. 

LEMON PEEL, TO CANDY. Tak» 

some lemon-peels, and clean tliem well from 
the pulp, and let them lay two days in salt' 
and water; then scald and drain them dry, 
tlien boil them in a thin sirup till they look 
quite clear. After which, take them out, 
and have ready a thick sirup made with fine 
loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer' 
them till the sugar-candies about the fiati anJ 
peels. Then lay them separately on a hair 
sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, 
and set them to dry in a slow oven. 

LEMON PEEL, CARAMEL. Take 

some very dry preserved lemon-peel, and 
cut it into several small square pieces ; pot 
these pieces each on the point of little sticks 
for this purpose, and dip them into cantmei 
sugar as dii^ected. See che»tnut9 au car' 
amei. 

LEMON PEEL SIRUP OF. Tak« 
five ounces of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a 
glass cucurbite, which has been gradually 
heated ; pour on them two pounds of nearly 
boiling water; close the vessel very tight, 
and place it on hot aslies lor twelve hours J 
after which, let the infusion run out gently 
without pressing the peel ; add two nouncJt 
of fmwder-sngar, and then boil the whole to 
grand perle, when about half cold, put in 
a few drops of spirit of lemon. 

LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take 4 
pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with 
as many yolks of ^gs as will enable you to 
spread the paste with a knife ; add to it a 
sufficient quantity of grated lemon-peel to 
impart the flavor required. The whole 
being well mixed, cot some sheets of wafer 
paper into such fignres as your fancy may 
dictate, and spread the paste over theiii!, 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place them on paper, and bake tliem in.m 
moderate oven. If you wish to glaze your 
sweetmeats, boil some sugar wi& orange- 
flower water to la plume, and when tl^ 
are taken out of the oven, wadi them over 
with the sirup, which dries almost immed^ 
alely. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Squeeze at 
many lemons as will yield about three-quw- 
ters of a pound of juice, taking partionlw 
care that the peel of every lemon is perfeelAy 
sound, and that they are none uf ihem in-die 
least degree bitter. Set your juiee- in the 
cellar for four days, and then filter it through 
blotting-paper. Break a pound and a hM 
of double-refined sugar into pieces about 4 
inch square ; put them into a guUon 1 



MAC 



Sd4 



MAR 



poor the lemon-juice over it, close tlie mat- 
raj« with fiaper, and place it in a bain ma- 
rie until the sugar is entirely dissolved ; then 
extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool 
gradually ; wlien cold, add two spoonfuls of 
■pirit of leoioDs, then bottle it, keep it well 
corked. 

LEMON WAFERS. Squeeze the juice 
•f six lemons into a basin ; pound and sift 
some double- refined 8Ufi;ar, and mix it with 
die lemon-juice j put the white of one egg 
with it, and mix the whole well togetl^ 
with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good 
consistence ; take some sheets of wafer-pa- 
per, and put one sheet of it on a pewter 
■beet or tin plate ; put on it a spoonful of 
the preparation, and spread it all over the 
paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, 
and put them across a stick in a hot stove, 
with that side the paste is on uppermost, 
and you will find they will curl ; wlien they 
are half curled, take tliem off veiy carefully 
and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that 
they may stand up ; let them be in the hut 
■tove one day, and you will find they will be 
all curled, and then tliey aie done 

.LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and 
bruise a <]|uarter of a pound of liquorice-root, 
and boil it in a little water till it is much 
reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it 
clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce 
of gum-dragon : when thoroughly dissolved, 
■ift it in a linen bag, and mix sugar with it 
till it is brought to the consistence of a paste ; 
then cut it into what flowers or designs you 
think proper. 



MACAROONS, SPICED. Take a 
pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of 
sifted sugar ; make your paste as usual, to 
which add a f poonful of powdered cinnamon, 
aix or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre* 
■erred lemon and oranse-peel (of each a 
•poonful,) chopped small, and the grated 
rind of two lemons; mix them all together 
io the mortar, and then lay your macaroons 
aa usual, and bake them with equal care. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. Tlie 
wwcedoine is an ornamental dish, composed 
of transparent jelly, with various fruits en- 
closed in it; for this purpose it should be 
done as follows: Have a dome-shaped mould 
six incJies and a half in diameter, and four 
in height, the sides fluted ; tlie smaller mould 
must be of a similar form, but only foiu* inch- 
es and a half in diameter, and two an«l three- 
oinuters high ; to this latter have four han- 
Mai, beat at die end, to hang it exaedy in 



the centre of the lai^r mou1d« Prepare a 
strawlterry transparent jelly, place the lar^ 
mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, 
hang the small one in it, and pour die jelly 
into the former; whilst it is congealing, 
pick about twenty fine white strawberries, 
the same number of very red ones, die same 
of white raspberrieii, a dozen bunches of red, 
and the same of white currants; wash all 
diese well, but touch them as little a« possi- 
ble, diat they may not lose their freshness; 
when the jelly is perfectly set, pour some 
hot water into the small mould which wiU 
enable you to remove it with ease ; raise it 
with great care, so tliat the space may be 
found without the slightest flaw ; then place 
on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two 
bundles of white currants, surround these 
with a ring of white strawberries, and the 
latter wiUi a crown or ring of white rasp* 
berries; pour over very carefully two or 
three spoonfuls of the jelly, and when that is 
congealed, proceed in die i«aoie way with 
tlie red currants, strawberries, and raspber- 
ries, dien tlie jelly, and so on alternately, 
until all the fruit is used ; fill the mould with 
jelly; as soon as the whole is congealed, dip 
your mould into a large saucepan of hot 
water, and then turn it into a dish instandy. 
The macedoine mny be garnished in diis 
manner wiih any kind of fruit you think 
proper. It may also be filled with two jel- 
lies as follows: white lemon jelly in the 
large mould, and finished with the same 
jelly, tinged with either i-oee-cokir or yellow; 
indeed the moulds may be varied iu any way 
your fancy may dictate. 

MALLOWS, SIRUP OF. Take half 
a pound of mallows root, and having scrap- 
ed and washed it wfJl, cut it ioto small 
pieces, which set on the fire with three pints 
of water ; wlien sufficiendy boiled, die wa- 
ter will be glutinous, strain off the deooctios, 
and pour into it four pounds of sugar ; clari- 
fy it in the same manner as capiliaire; boil 
it to /tsse, run it through a jelly-bag, and 
when cold, bottle it. 

MARASCHINO. Take sixteen ponmk 
of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off 
the stalks; pot them into five qnarts of 
brandy to infuse, covered close Ibr three 
days, then distil the infusion; distil also a 
pound of cherry-leaves in six quarts of fiker^ 
ed river water, firom which you will obtain 
about a gallon ; dissolve in this four poonds 
and a half of fine sugar; add it to the li- 
queur, with two pints and a half of kirschc*- 
wasser, an ounce and four drachms of spirits 
of rose, the same of orange-flowers, and 
three drachms of spirits of jes8ami*ie; sux 
them altogetlier, run it tbrmigh a jelly-baf, 
and bottle it; cork them well. 



MAR 



285 



MEL 



MARASCHINO, CONSKRVE OF. 
Pound and sift some of ttie l)ei*t liintp sii^ar, 
mix it in a china banin with ppirit of maiHs- 
chino, until it is of tiie con8ii«teiKre o( pastil 
parte; tiien put it into a skillet o\er the fire, 
and heat it gently, stirring it constantly (hut 
without letting it boil,) till very liquid, when 
It may be poured into funnel-sliaiied tin 
moulds; put these moulds on iron plates, 
and dry the cousen'e in a stove. 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take 
two quarts of cream, twelve eggs, a poumi 
of double-refined sugar, and thrra glasses 
of true maraschino; put the cream on to 
boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites 
of the em to a firm snow, tlien pour in 
eiffht yolks, and the sugar potmded and 
■itted, stir them together lightly, and then 
add hy degress tlie boiling cream,' whipping 
continually ; set it on the fire, and do not 
oease whipping until it has boiled np three 
or lour times ; pour it tlirough a sieve into 
m basin, stirring a littk; to onahle it to run 
more freely ; when r^ki put it into the sor- 
better e witli the maraschino; cover it in- 
atantly, and ice it as usual. 

MARCHPANE. Take four pounds of 
aweet almonds, throw them into boiling 
water, let them lay till the skin kx)sen8, 
then put them into cold water, after a few 
minutes blancli and throw tliem again into 
ould water to wash them thoroughly. When 
dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a 
voT fine paste, moistening each handful 
with two spoonfuls of water; die wliole 
quantity of almonds being pounded, put the 
|>aste into a large preserving pan, with four 
pounds of tlie best lump sugar finely pound- 
ed and sifted ; set the pan on a coal fire, 
stir and work them up together with a 
large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the 
bottom: be very careful that D<Mie of the 
paste adlieres to the pan ; the consequence 
oC such n^iect would be, that the march- 
pane would be spotted with yelkiw, and 
would smell unpleasantly. Whilst working 
it up, the paste, which when put in was 
tolerably firm, will become ratlier liquid, 
and a gi^eat deal of vapor may be observed ; 
the first is caused by the si^r dissolved by 
the heat and moisture, tlie second by the 
evaporation of the water. Continue to stir 
and work it up in this manner without 
ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of 
that time, you can touch the paste without 
its adhering to your fingers, it is sufficiently 
dried ; in which case remove it all to one 
aide of the pan, clean tlie bottom luid side 
of the odier, sprinkle it well with fiour, then 

Kthe paste to that pai t, clean and sprin- 
that si^ also; then take the pan by 
both ears and move it round and round, so 



that the p.'i»<ip nuiy all unite together; if 
sfMiii ai< it hiiK done ko, put it into a sheet of 
pn|)«'r, or, if you w:int to use it immediate- 
Iv, on H uell 'Homed table. This fwete, if 
the alniondo l)e well fXiunded and then tlior- 
oiiglily dried, w ill kwp good for six months; 
if these two prec;iiitiona are not properly 
attended to, it will liecome sour in ten days. 

MARIGOLDS, CdNSERVE OF. Take 
four ounces of uiarigold-flow'ers, conwrve of 
hyacinth and liermes, of each four dradims, 
the powder of pearl two ounces, and as 
much sirup of citron as will make tliem into 
a conserve, mixing and bruising tliem to- 
getlier with refined sugar. 

MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take 

the tops and (endcrest part of sweet marjo- 
ram, brnii^ it well in a wooden mortar or 
IkiwI; lake duulle its weight of fine sngar, 
lx)il it with marjoram-water till it is as 
thick as siiup, then put in your beaten mar- 
jtjrani. 

MARSEILLES, OR GINGER. Take 
a p</und and a half of double-refined sugar, 
and boil it to fort 90t{ffle, add to it an 
ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan 
from tlie fire, and with a round f^tick (like 
a plain round rule) stir the sngar, inclining 
the stick towards the sides of the pan, then 
with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to 
tlie ed^es and put it amongst tlie liquid, then 
work It up again with the sti^k, remove the 
solid sugar as i;efore, and repeat diis opera- 
tion four times, wlien it will have liecome tole- 
rably tliick and firm ; pour it into paper cases, 
about lialf an inch thick, and with a fork 
U-ace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges 
of what size you please ; aflerwards, with 
the point of a knife, mark some of these 
deeper than the others; when quite cold, 
take them out of the papers, and separate 
them, wliere the lines are deepest. The 
Marseilles, if presen'ed in a warm or dry 
place, will keep good fi>r a long time. 

MARSEILLES SPICED. Take a 
pound and a half of fine sugar, boil it to 
ca»»e; take a quarter of preserved orange- 
peel, tlie same of candied lemon-peel, (or, 
if you like it better, two oum«s of blanched 
pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put 
them widi half an ounce of cloves, the same 
of] cinnamon (both pounded) into, the sugar, 
stir them in gently, cx>ntinue to boil your 
sirup to forte phune; tlien beat it up, pour 
it into cases, and finish as tlie 3Sar»eilles, 

MELONS, TO PRESERVE LIKE 
GINGER. Half a pound of ginger to one 
pound of melon; scrape the ginger, and 
save the scrapings ; |x)ur a quaii of boiliiig 



MIN 



286 



MTR 



water rfn the ginger, let it j«mnd two days: 
■caM the melon (with the scrapings of tlie 
ginger in die water), taking care not to 
make it too soft: cut it into small pieces 
resembling ginger; then prepare a sirup, 
half a pound of sugar to a pint of water ; 
boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in tlie 
melon, and set it over the fire for a short 
time, but not to boil ; let the sirup, with 
the ginger, be boiled every day for a fort- 
night, but nut poured upon the melon till 
.nearly cold; then boil a rich sirup to keep 
it in. 

N. B. Carrot is equally good with melon. 

MERINGUES. (1) Whisk the whites of 
nineegg« to a solid froth; then add the rind 
of six lenioiij), grated extremely fine, and a 
spoonful of sifted sugar; after which, lay a 
sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a 
spoon drop the mixture in little lamps, 
separately upon it, sift sugar over, and put 
tbeni to bake in a modei-ately heated oven, 
taking care that they are done of a nice 
color. Then put ra8pl)erry, apricot, or any 
other kind c»f jam between two of these bot- 
toms, add them togetlier, and lay tliem in 
a warm place, or before the fire to dry. 

MERINGUES. (2) Take the whites 
of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lump 
sugar, pounded and sifled, and half a pound 
of pistachios ; blanch and beat the latter in 
a mortar, with a little white of egg, to a 
vary fine paste. Whisk the whites of eggs 
to a snow, then add the sugar, and pista- 
chio paste, mix tliem well, but very lightly, 
and when they are thoi*oughly incorporated, 
put some sheets of paper on tin plates, lay 
your preptiration on the paper, with a spoon, 
lay the meringues j at least an inch apart ; 
sprinkle sifled sugar over them, and put 
them into a moderate oven or stove ; when 
done, detach them gently from the paper 
with a knife, and place them on a sieve in 
a dry place. Just before they are sent to 
table, fill each with a little whipped cn»m, 
to which add a small quantity of either 
orange-flower, rose, or vanilla water. 

MILK PUNCH. Pare six oranges, and 
six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, 
grate them after with sugar to obtain the 
flavor. Steep tlie peels in a bottle of rum 
»r brandy, st»p|ied close for four and twenty 
hours. Squeeze the finiit on two (wumis of 
sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and 
one quart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the 
rum into tlie above, and run it tlirotigh a 
jellv-bng until it is quite clear: bfjttle and 
cork it close immediately. 

MINT, DISTILLED LKiUKUR OF. 
Take two handfuls of fresh gathered giirden 



mint, and infine it for some days in a gafion 
and a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; 
then distil it as usual. Dissolve three 
pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of 
water, mix the sirup with the Uqueur, and 
run the whole through a jelly bag. 

MINT WATER. Take four poonds of 
dried mint, twO gallons and a half of proof 
spirits, and three gallons of water; distil 
tliem, and sweeten the water with a pound 
and a half of sugar. 

MIRLITONS. Put into a pan two 
yolks, and two whole cgg», four ounces of 
powder-sugar, three ounces of sweet nnca-> 
roons crushed, half an ounce of crisped 
orange-flowers in powder, and a grain of 
sah; stir these together a minute, then add 
two ounces of meltod batter ; whip the two 
whites very firm, and put them also to the 
preparation. Line thirty tartlet mooMs with 
puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal 
quantity of the above; cover them with 
sifted sugar, and when that is dissolved, 
strew over a little sugar, a la grele; aad 
put them into a moderate oven : serve either 
hot or cold. 

MULBERRIES, SIRUP OF. Take 
as many mulberries as will yield three pints 
of juice, which put into a preserving pan 
with three pints of water; boil ontr! (his 
quantity is reduced to one pint ; then lay the 
fruit on a sieve- to drain. Clariiy three 
pounds of sugar, boil it to hmtiUes then add 
the mulhen^-juice; give them one boil, and 
skim them. Pour the simp into a pan, and 
let it stand ; when cold, bottle it. 

MUSK, TO PREPARE FOR U- 
QUEI JR6. Take two grains of musk and 
a qtnrter of a pound of sugar, pound dieia 
in a mortar and mix them well ; keep it ia 
a ck»eiy stopped bottle. The quantity re- 
quired of this is one pinch to ^lor or five 
quarts of liqueur. Aniliergris ia prepared 
in a simitar manner, hot being leas powerffal 
than the musk, four grains is the proportios 
to a quarter of a pound of sugar. 



I MYRTLE, OIL OF. Put two 
of peadi leaves, and tlie half of a mi(nieg» 
iHiiised, into six quarts of brandy; distil 
from this in a bmn marie alembic your li- 
queur, in which, infuse half a ponnd c^ savr* 
tie flowers for four days. Disaolve are 
pnun:is of sugar in three quarts of pore rivor 
water ; the moment it begins to boil, take it 
from the firf , au<l let tt cool; take tJie mvr> 
tie tlownrs fnnii the liquefir, and pM in the 
su^ar ; luix tlteni weN, 0f»tor it with \ 
of saflVon, Htrain and bottle it. 



NUT 



287 



ORA 



NON P AREIL. Poppy seeds sngared in 
die manner directed under the articles ^ii- 
gared See^, are called Nonpareih; 
they are tinged of different Colors, by the in- 
troduction of the various coloring materials 
into the sugar with which they are cov- 
ered. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them 
well, cut each into five slips, which place in 
a senile oven to dry; let them b^ all equally 
colored of a clear yellow ; in the meantime, 
put three-quarters of a pound of fine sngar 
rato a preserving pan, set it on a stove, 
stirring with a wooden spoon until com- 
pletely dissolved ; then take the almonds out 
of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into 
the liquid sugar; mix them together well. 
Have ready a mould well oiled, of any shape 
you think proper, in the interior of which 
place the slips of almonds, by means of lem- 
on-juice, when the whole is covered, remove 
tlie mould carefully, and serve the Nougat. 

NOYAU, ENGLISH. Two gallons of 
gtn, two pounds of hitter almonds, •one pound 
of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste ; 
six pounds of lump si^r, pounded (some of 
k with the almonds.) Let these stand ten 
days in the gin, then filter it through blotting 
paper, and bottle it, 

NUT BONBONS. Boil a pound of 
Spanish nirts; when they are well boiled, 
rob off their skin with a napkin, if some 
stick too hard, pare it off with a knife; 
grate your nuts very fine on a sheet of pa- 
per; then take a pound of powdered sugar 
to a pound of nuts, put it in a pun over a 
■low fire; when your sugar is all melted 
(you must stir it constantly with a wooden 
spoon) put your nuts in, and work tliem well 
UN all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin 
plate; tlien spread it with a rolling pin, this 
must be done very quickly, as it cools very 
last; when it is cold, cut it into what form 
you please ; you must take care tlie sugar is 
not too much melted, for it is very apt to 
aofien wlien the nuts are added to it. 

NUTS PRALINED. Take a pound 
of Spanish nuts, take them out of their 
shells, and put them into a pan, with a 
pound of Umf sugar, and a little water; let 
them boil till thc^y begin to sparkle; tlien 
bake them off the fire, and stir them well 
with a wooden PiHion, till you perceive the 
sugar turns gruvelly; tlien set them tignin 



over a sk>w fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep 
stirring, tliat the sugar .may stick to the nuts, 
and when you see them turn reddish, and 
are well covered with sugar, take them off, 
pour them into a sieve, cover diem with a 
ck>an cloth, and put them into a stove; this 
will preserve their gloss. 

NUTMEGS TO CANBY. Take a 
pound and a half of double refined sugar, 
half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-wa- 
ter, and a very little gum arable; boil these 
to a candy lieight ; let your nutuiegs be first 
soaked in water; then put them into an 
earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep 
them very close covered, set them in a warm 
place fur about three weeks, and they will 
be of a rock candy. 



OIL OF JUPITER. Take three quarto 
of spirits of wine, flavored with essential oil 
of lemon, the same quantity flavored with 
spirit of cedrat; make a sirup with seven 
pounds of sugar, a gallon of water, and two 
Ixittles of Scubac ; mix the whole together, 
and by stirring, it will become thick ; to 
cliirify it, take the whites of two eggs in 
about a pint of the -liqaeur, and afterwards 
put it to tlie whole ; stir it ; then put it into 
a still in the 6atn marte moderately lieated; 
let it remain for twelve hours; filter the pro- 
duce of your distillation, and bottle it. 

OIL OP VENUS. Reduce tlie follow- 
ing articles to an impalpable powder:— an 
ounce of skirrct seeds, an ounce of caraway 
seetls, an ounce <if anise seeds, a drachm 
and a half of mace, and, the rind of an or- 
ange ; infuse these fur five days in a galbn 
Af brandy, then distil from it in a bain mom 
rie, two quarts of liqueurs dissolve over 
tlie fire four, pounds of sugar in two ouarts 
of pure water; when cold, mix it with the 
distilled liqueur, and cxjior it of a clear yel* 
low, with a little tincture of saffron; filter 
and bottle it ; seal ilie corks. 

ORANGES IN BRANDY, Choose 
the oranges very round and smooth, pare, 
prick Uiem in the middle, and put llieiu into 
cold water; then blanch them in boiling 
water; when tliey are tender, throw them 
again into cold water; in a short time give 
them seven or eight boils in Fiigar, a la pe- 
HU npppe, skitu, and let them stand till 
next day, wlien the same process must ha 
gone through; skim them again, then put 
tliem into Ixillles, pour over them ecjiial 
quantities uf ^irup and wttter; take care to 
t;oik tlwCli well, 



ORA 



288 



ORA 



ORATIGE, COMPOTE. Cbt them 
in MiwN pieoDB, and boil them in wa- 
ter until they are tender, tlien change ihero 
into crtld «raler; next make a einip with 
ooeglaw of water and four ounces of sugar, 
and put in the fruit; let it simmer ffenlly 
over a slow fire for half an hoar ; serve cold. 

ORANGE, CROQUE EN BOfT- 
CHES OF. Pare a doaen fine oranges, 
and divide each into twelve pieces, all of 
the same size; scrape oflT everv particle of 
the white, without brealcmg the thin skin 
which oontMins the juice ; when all are done, 
dip each piece into some sngar boiled to 
eoMC (and lightly cok>red,) ami place them 
in a plain moul.l of six inches diaroetei', and 
five in height ; the first row inclined one way, 
the mcond ihe reverse way, and so on ; lay 
them at the bottom in a star. As soon as 
the mould \n full, turn it out, and serve it 
with all |y)Rsible expedition, as tlie moisture 
of the fiiiit disiH>lve8 the sugar so rapidly, 
that the eroque en baueke is liabk; to fiill 
to pieces. 

ORANGE CAKES. Divide the or- 
anges in half, take out the seeds, and put 
the pulp and juice into a bs^in; boil the 
rinds in a saucepan of water, closely cover- 
ed; when very tender take tliem out, and 
dry them upon a vJUith; allnw to a pound of 
orange rind^, two of pounded loaf sugar'; 
poinifl the rindi* in a mortar ; add by degtves 
the sngttr, and then the juice and pulp; mix 
it thonmglily till thick and yeilow; drop it 
upon tiitfi in small cakes, and dry them un- 
der garden glasses, or in a cool oven. If 
it be too thick to drop, let it stand a night. 

ORANGE SHERBET. Dissolve a 
pound and half of sugar in a quart of very 
pure water ; take nine fine oranges and two 
lemons; wipe tliem well with a napkin, and 
having grated the nooet fragrant rinds, squeeie 
on them tlie juice of these fruits; sweeten 
this juice with tlie abo^'e sirup, run the whole 
through a close hair sieve, and finidh in 
the usual way. (See Sherbet.) 

ORANGE SHRUB. Put ten pounds 
of cruslted sugar to two gallons of water, 
and boil it until the sugar 1^ diftM>lve<l ; skim 
it well, and put it into a tub; when quite 
eoM, pour it into a barrel; add three quarts 
of Jainuica rum, and six quartti of orange* 
juice (take care tliere are no pifM.) Beat 
op the while of an (^, mix it with the 
shrub, and let it stand for a week ; then 
draw it oflfand bottle it. 

ORANGE SUGAR. Rasp on a piece 
ef sqgar tlie rinds of the lief« oranges, but 
■0 lightly that not a particle of tlie white is 



mixed with it; scrape off the sorfiMse of the 
sugar as it becomes cok>red, and oootinne 
this operation until you have as mncfa sognr 
as you require ; then lay it in a stove, or at 
the month of the oven to dry ; when it is 
pei-feittly so, pass it through a very fine 
sieve. Lemons and oedrats may be gntad, 
and the sugar dried in the same manner. 

ORANGES, GREEN. Scrape out tht 
insides of the oranges quite clean, then let 
them lie for three daiys in coM water, chang- 
ing the water daily, then boil them very 
sbwiy till the water is bitter; then put 
them into other boiling water, set them by; 
repeating this daily tiU all the bitteniess ia 
extracted: make a rich sirup of the fant 
water thev are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; 
when cold, put them in ; the next day boil 
tliem in the sfrop; repeat this till they ara 
green and tender; cover with brandy-paper. 

ORANGE, WATER ICE. Take off 

the rind of two Seville oran^, very fine 
and thin ; sqoeeie the juice mto a basia 
with one \aaaa ; add half a pint of sirap, 
and half a pint of water; paas them throogb 
a sieve, and inae them rich. 

ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. 
Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to gromic 
pkme, take it froob the fire, and pour into 
it a dessert spoonful of orange-flower water; 
stir them together well, set the mixture on 
the firC) and wlien warm, poor it into shal* 
low paper^cases; let it cool, and then cot il 
into ou&es c^any form you pfeaae. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS. Pnl- 

verise a good pinch of dried orange-flowers; 
pound them with gum-dragon, previoody 
dissolved in one glass of pbin, and the 
same quantity of ornnge-^wer water; add 
a sufficient proportion of powder-sii^r, to 
make the paste of the requisite ccmsistenoe, 
which form according to your taste into 
cones, losenges, &c. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PRALINES. 

Take a pound of very fresh white oraage- 
fiowers, pick, and throw them into ooU 
water ; clarify, and boil two pounds of sugar 
to »o^^e, then put in the floweni; stir 
them with a spatnla, until yoinr sugar r»- 
gaiM the degree of eouffie; take die pen 
from the fire, and continue stirring till the 
sugar is separated from the flowera, and lie- 
comes a powder; set it in a stoTe to dry, 
then set the whqfe on a sieve, that the sngsr 
may run throush and leave the flowen, 
which put into Dotdes, If preserved ia a 
dry place they will keep for twelve months 

QRANGE-FLOWERS SIRUP. C^f 



OK6 



0R« 



ffy aad boil fiwr poomb of sogw to perie^ 
IttBD add three-quarton of a pound of frasb 
onui^ilowera picked, and boil them once ; 
ibeB take die pan from the fire, and let it 
atand for two houn^ after which, replace it 
on die fire ; wiieo k. has had about a doien 
boilings, pour it through a sieve into anoUi- 
B, boil the simp to UMe, and 



M. k aside; when quite cold, bottle it. 
The flowers may be used as follows: put 
tfa^i into powder-sugar, with which nib 
them well with your bands, till quite dry, 
Chen sift and put them in a stove. 

ORANGE-FLOWER WATER. Put 
into a still ten pounds of finesh gathered or- 
wqpe-flowers, and six quarts of pure river 
water; take particular care to ckise up all 
Ifae apertures of the still perfectly, and set it 
OD a moderate fire, that the ebullition may 
aot be too stnmg; be particular in cooling 
it fivquently, or, at least, whenever the wa- 
ter in the boiler becomes too warm, change 
it, and put in fresh ; much depends on the 
attention paid to this part of the operation. 
From the above quantity, three quarts <^ 
orange-fiower water may be drawn. 

ORANGE-FLOWER DOUBLE 
Water. Draw four quarts of orange- 
flower water from six quarts distilled as 
above ; put to this water the same quantity 
of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, 
and it will yield five pints. 

ORANGE FEEL TO CANDY. Take 
some orange peel, and let it soak in seve- 
ral waters liU it has lost its bitterness, then 
boil it in a solution <^ double-refined su- 
gar in water, till it becomes tender and 
Cfausparant. 

ORANGE FEEL TO PRESERVE. 
Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, 
put the peel in strong salt and spring water, 
to souk for three days, repeat tins three 
times, then put them on a sieve to dry ; 
take one pound of loaf sugar, add to it one 
quart of spring water, lioil it, skim it until 
quite clear; let the peels simmer until they 
are quite transparent ; dr^ them before the 
fire; take loaf-sugar, with just suificient 
water to dissolve it; whildt the su^ar is 
boiling, put in the peels, stirring continually 
«ntil all the sugar is candied round them, 
tiien put them to dry either before the fire 
•r in an oven, and when perfectly dried, 
put them by for use. 

ORGEAT. Blanch a pound of sweet, 
mad twenty-four bitter almonds ; pound tiiem 
la an exceeding^ fine paste» adding water 



occasionally to prevent tlieir oiling; mix h 
gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and 
orange-fiower water ^ with this paste; beat 
them togetlier for some time ; tlien strain it 
two or three times dirough a jelly-hag, stir- 
ring it widi a spatala, and serve it ia da» 



ORGEAT FASTE. Pound the abnoada 
with a little orange-fiower water to a fine 
paste, and then worie up with it an equal 
weight of powder-sugar. This paste will 
keep a long while, and by dissolving a small 
portion of it in water, and straining it, or* 
geat may be prepared very quickly. An 
ounce of the paste is sufficient foi' half a 
pint of water. 

ORGEAT SIRUP. Take a pound and 
a half of sweet, and half a pound o€ bitter 
almonds, throw them into boiling water, and 
leave tliem till the skins can be removed 
with ease, then throw than into coM water 
for a minute before you blanch them, afttf 
which, they must again be put into cold 
water ; then pound tiiem, a few at a time» 
in a marble mortar, adding occasionally 
some water to prevent tlieir oiling ; when 
all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this 
with the greater part of a quart of water, 
(of which reserve six ounces); put the 
paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and wring 
out all the milk from the almonds, put the 
latter into the mortar, aud pound them 
again, adding by degrees the remainder dt 
tlie water, and then squeeze these also in a 
cloth; pour the whole of this milk into a 
matrass, lai^ enough to c<mtain, at least, 
one-third more liquid, add to it two pounds 
of lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower 
water; cork the matrass tight, and set it 
on a 6atn marie; when the sugar is con^ 
pletely dissolved, (which should be accelera- 
ted by siiaking tlie matrass occasionally), les- 
sen the fire by degrees, and as soon as the 
vessel is quite cold, put tlie simp into bottles. 

If you should have no niatrasn, you may 
make your sirup in the following manner: 
boil tlie aliove mentioned quantity uf sugar 
to forte plume, then add the milk of al» 
roonds, and as soon as it has boiled up iwioe^ 
take it from the fire; when cold, flavor it 
witli a pint of orange-flower water. 

Or this sirup may be made in a still more 
simple way, as thus: put the milk of al- 
monds into some pounded siigar, without 
being clarified or boiled previously ; when 
tlie sirup begins to boil, add alxjut a cofiee- 
cupful uif oraoge-flower water, and after it 
has boiled up two or three times, take it 
fruHv the fire ; let it get quite cold before 
you bottle it. Keep it well corked. 



PAS 



S90 



PEA 



P. 

PARFAIT AMOUR. Take four very 
fine freoh oedrata, pare them rtsry thiD, and 
inAue tliem with half an ounce ol fine cinna- 
nKNi, and four ounces of coriander, in tliree 
gallons of strong brandy) and a quart of wa- 
ter, for a week or ten days, whien distil it 
in the bain marie; this quantity of brandy, 
if good, will yield two gallons and half a 
pint of Rpirit. Dissolve three pounds and a 
naif of sugar in seven pints of rivor water, 
color it with cochineal, then add it to the 
■pirit, filter, and bottle it. 

PASTILLES. To make these articles, 
it is necessary to have a siuall copfier stew- 
pan that will hold about a pint, rather deep 
dian wide, with a pointed lip on tlie right 
aide, and a tolerably long handle, also two 
pieces of wood, one abmit eighteen inches 
long, and f<Hir in diameter, called the bou 
a iabelier, t\\e other about lialf the length, 
one inch in diameter, and the lower end, 
pointed so that it will exactly fit the lip of 
the pan ; tliis is called the bots a egoutteri 
six or eight tin plates about the size of a 
sheet of lerter«paper. 

For the best pastille*, take a pound of 
double-refined sugar reduced to an impalpa- 
ble powder ; sift it throuffh a tammy on a 
sheet of white paper, put four or five spoon- 
fuls of til is sugar into your pan, pour on it a 
little orange-flower water, and beat it well 
with the brger stick, until the preparation 
is sufficiently thin to run from the stick 
without being clear; if it be so, more sqgar 
must be added. Put the pan over a chafing- 
dish filled with live coab, and let it stand 
(stirring constantly) till it boils ; then take 
it off the chafing-dish, add two more spoon- 
ftils of sugar, work It up well, scrape away 
whatever sugar adheres to the stick, set it 
aside, and take tlie smaller stick in vour 
right hand, hold the pan in yonr left (slant- 
ing) over one of the tin-plates ; the sugar 
will, by these means, fiow to the lip, then 
strike the point of the stick into the lip of 
the pan, which action will separate the 
liquid, so thjit each time the stick strikes 
the lip a single drop of the preparation will 
fall on the tin; a little ptractice will be ne- 
cessary Iwfore this operation can be perform- 
ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. 
is used, replenish the pan and proceed as 
above directed, until you have as many 
pastUUa as you may recjoire. When cold 
and hard, remove them from the tins with 
your hand, and keep them in boxes in a 
dry place. You may, if you please^ color 
the pastilles, taking care to perfume them 
with a corresponding odour. 



PASTILLES, GOMMON. Thtwaitt 
made in the same manner as the beet sort, 
the difference consists in tlie materials, 
(which are a quarter of a pound of powder 
to tliree-quarters of a pound of ougar) and 
the periiunes are omittnl. 

PASTILLAGES. Put two ounces of 
well-washed gum dragon into an earthen 
pan, with as much clear hot water «8 will 
cover it, lay a sheet of paper to keep onl 
the dust, and let it stand twenry-fonr boors; 
then squeeze it throng a coarse, clotli into 
arbk 



)le mortar, and add to it aa 
starch and st^rar (both in powder) as the 
gum water will contain ; pound these ingre- 
dients well, and strain them through a tamny 
into a pan which keep covered with a damp 
ck>th. This pastillage is nsed to form the 
ornamental parts of pastry and oonfectioB- 
ary, such as temples, baskets, &c., and wsaj 
be tinged of the requisite sliades, by mix- 
ing with it any of the coloring materials. 

PEACHES IN A COMPOTE. Cbt 

your fieaches in half, lake out the atonesy 
peel Uiero, then set them on the fire in a 
sugar-pan, with a sufficient q^ntity of thick 
cliirified sugar to cover them, and let them 
simmer in this gently till done ; then lakn 
them out in a bnsin, put in the kernels to 
the sugar, and let it boil until tolerably thick; 
put in the juice of two or three lemons, and 
|K>ur the sirup over the peaches; aerve them 
IB a deep liot dish. 

PEARS IN BRANDY. Take sons 
beurre pears, not too ripe, pot them into a 
saucepan with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover them, set them on the fire, and let 
tliem simmer, hut not boil, until the pean 
will yield to tlie pressure of your finger; 
then change them into cold water; pare 
them with the greatest care, so that not a 
single spot may remain ; prwk, and put thes 

Tin on the fire in fresh water and the joiea 
a lemon; let them boil very last. As 
soon as the pears are soft enough for the 
head of a pin to penetrate them'eaaily, take 
them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay 
them in cold water. In the meantime, hav- 
ing boileil your sugar to lisse, poor the 
boiling sirup on the pears, (previoosly 
drained from tlie water,) and leave thesi. 
The next dny drain off the sirup, boil it to 
la nappe, tlien put in tlie peani, give them 
a boil also; proceed in the same mannerso 
the third day, after which, drain the lirait, 
and put it into buttles. Boil up the simp a 
few more times, let it oool, ami then posr 
on it some brandy, (three-fourths of tka 
quantity of the sirup;) ran the raixtnra 
throi^h a bag, put it to the pean» and eoch 
the buules well. 



ris 



291 



PLU 



PEARS CANDIED. Are doue like 
apricote. 

PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some 
go(Ml sizerl peiu-s, cut them in halves, and 
p«it tliem into b«>iling water; when soft, 
cliangf tliein into Cold water, in which 
9qiiee%e a little leinon-jiilce. Boil some 
clari5e(l su<rar, drain tiie fruit well from tlie 
water, ami thfn put them into the Kinip; 
boil together until tlie jjearn are sufficiently 
done; «ikiiii, and place them in the compo^ 
Her. A litUe Burgundy wine and prepared 
Cochineal will give tlie eompoitf a red color. 

PEAR MARMALADE. Take six 

poundiS of siuidl pearA and four ptwanda of 
«uarar; put the pears into a saucepan with 
a little water, set it on tlie fire; wlien the 
fruit is st>ft, take them out, paje, quarter, 
and core thein ; as yo*i do this, tlirow each 
piece into cold water, in another sitncepan, 
and wtien all pre done, set them on tl»e fire. 
As soon as they are sufficiently soft, ml) 
them tlirough a sieve, and having in tlie 
meantime clarified aiid InuJed <tlie sugar to 
petit lU$e^ fxjur llie stntp to tlie pulp, Het it 
on the fire, and stir ilieni together until tlie 
noHTiiuilade is of die proper consistence; 
tlien take it off, put it uito pots, and when 
cold, tie tliera doivo. 

PERSICA. Cut about one hundi-ed 
peach leaves, put them into a wide-mouthed 
bottle, pour on tliem a quart of the best 
brandy, cork it close ; in three weeks strain 
it off, and put to it an equal quantity of ca- 
pillaire. It is good in castarda, puddings, 
and as a liqueur. 

PINE APPLE CHIPS, Pare and 
trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each 
half into pie(*.es a quaater of an inch thick ^ 
take half tlie weight of the fruit in powder- 
cugar: lay the slices in a basin, witli sugar 
strewed tietween; let it stand tiH the sugar 
be di^•8o1ved, tiien set it on a moderate fire 
to simmer till the cliips be quite clear, \v4ien 
set it by. The next day remove ail tlie 
idnip from the slices, place tliem on glasses, 
and dn' ibem in a gentle oven. 

PINE APPLE IN A COMPOTE. 

Tarn ^fif die rind of a pine, cut it in slices, 
but not t(x> thin; hare some st^r on the 
fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices 
of pi lie, and let tliem boil gently till the sirup 
is tolerably diick, then take out the |)ine, 
and hiy it on a dish; mix with tlie sugar, 
die jnice of a couple of lemons, and |x>i]i it 
o\'er the pine. 

PISTACHIO MARCHPANE. Put a 
pound and a lialf of pistachios into a mortar. 



pound them, moistening with white of egg, 
to a vei7 fine paste; in tlie meantime clari- 
fy the same quantity of .sugar, boil it to petit 
ooule; then Uike the pan from the fire, put 
in tlie pistadiios, stir them together well, 
replace die pan on hot aslies, continually 
stirring, till tlie paste is of a proper consis- 
tence, then puur it on a slab well sprinkled 
with sugar; as soon as it is cold, cut it into, 
wliatever forms your fancy may dictate. 

PLUMS, IN BRANDY. Take twelve 
pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, and 
three pounds of sugar; the fruit sliouM l)e 
turned in color, but not ripe; prick, and put 
tbeu into a saucepan with cold water, set 
them on the fire; when the water Ijoils and 
the plums rise, take them out carefully with 
a skimmer and put them into a pan of cold 
water; clarify nud boil the sugar to petit 
lis$ey put the plums to it, and give them a 
lM>il; tlie two succeeding, days, drain off 
and boil tlie simp, first alone, and after- 
wards wiUi the fruity the tliird day drain 
tlie plums, and put them mto l>ottles; tlien 
boil the sirup to la nappe, and when cold; 
add to it three-foiiiths uf its quantity of tlie 
best brandy, stir it well, strai;* and pour tlie 
mixture over tlie plums. Cork the bottles 
tigiiL Gi-een-gage plums are done like 
apricots. (See Apricots in Brandy.) 

PLUMS CANDIED, Choose your 
fruit of a nice shape and good size; cut 
them in halves, lay riiem on a large shallow 
dish, strew powder-sugar over, and put 
them into a moderate oven, tiglitly closed ; 
in half an hour's time, take them out, and 
place tlie ]:dums one by one on glass plates 
to dry, 

PLUMS, CLEAR CAKES OF. Fill 
a jar with llie white pear plums, set it in a 
saucepan of boiling water on the fire; when 
sufficiently done, let the clear juice run 
firoin it, and to every pint of it, add an e(]ual 
quantity of sugHr, Smiled to candy height; 
put the jtrice to tlie sirnp, set it on tlie fire, 
and keep stirring it till the whole is quite 
hot, btit not boiling; then fxair it into glass<i 
cs, and dry tlie cakes in a stove. 

PLUMS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
six pounds of plums, and four pounds of 
sugar; stone, and put the fiiiit into a cul- 
lender, beat it through with a wooden pestle 
into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire, 
to iky the pulp, stirring it constantly. In 
the meantime, clarify and \nn\ the sugar to 
petit cas««, then mix It with the fruit (still 
on the fire,) stir it till the whole is of the 
consistence of jelly, then take it oif, and 
pour the marmalade into pots. 

If the plums are not quite ripe, they most 



POM 



393 



POtJ 



be boiled once or twice before they are 
Breaaed through the cuUender. Soine of 
Vie kernels may be added, if approved; 
Ihey should be pounded before putting ip the 
marmalade* 

PLUMS PRESERVED, DRY. Gath- 
tie tlie plums when full grown and just turn- 
ing color, pi ick and put tliem into a saucepan 
of coU water, get them on the fire until the 
water is on Uie point of boiling; tlien lake 
ijiem out, drain and boil them well in sonne 
clarified sugar, let them settle, and tlien boil 
Cliem again ; if diey shrink and will not take 
llie migar, prick diem as tliey la^ in tlie pan, 
and tl^ give tliem anotlier boil, skim and 
■et tliera %: the next day, add some more 
^ar, boifed to souffle, to the fruit, and 
•Imp, then do tliem together;^ place tliem 
in a stove till next day, when dram the 
plums from tlie sirup, sprinkle a little pow- 
der-sugar over, and chy them in a stove. 

PLUMS, PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cather tlie pkims green, firm, and when tlie 
4toiie may be extracted with ease, cut tlie 
•talks close, and prick tlie fruit in several 
places, especially round tlie stalk; tlien 
niace tliem in a saucepan of water over tlie 
pre, and as soon as the water is ready to 
boil, take tlie saucepan fi*om the fire; in 
CDur-and-twenty hours, replace tlie phims in 
tfie same water on a gentle fire, with a small 
Quantity of verjuice to preserve their color, 
■keep I lie water liot, witliout allowing it to 
boil, for three liours, stirrii^ it occasional- 
ly ; wlien die fru i t is perfectly green, increase 
Qie lieat till tlie plums rise to die surface, 
when they must he taken out and thrown 
into cold water, which change frequently till 
tfie plums are perfectly cold, tlieii drain 
Chem. Put the fruit in some st^r boiled to 
Iff nappe, boil them up a few tiroes, adding 
a little water; skim, and then pour the 
whole into a pan ; tlie next two days, dmin 
off the sirup, and increase the degree of 
boiling each day ; die third and fourth days, 
boil die fruit with the sirup, keeping them 
covered, and iiicreiising the d^ree, until tlie 
last time, it readies to perle. Pot the 
preserve into pots, and place them for two 
days in a stove. 

Tlie same fmit may be preserved dry 
also. Tlie operation is the same, but the 
«irup is drained off, and the plums laid on 
tin plates before they are put into Uk stove. 

POMEGRANATE CLEAR CAKES. 

Pare some good boiling apples, and put diem 
into a saucepan with as much water as will 
0over Uiera, set diem on the fire, and when 
perfectly sofl, press die pulp throi^i a sieve, 
i^jUi^ strain it. Boil this jelly wiUi the 



juice of two or three pomegranates, that of 
one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of 
each grated; strain it again, and to everf 
pound of jelly add a pound and. a qoarter 
of fine sugar, boiled till it cracka, csokir it 
with cochineal; pour it into glasses (taking 
off the scum before it becomes c(»ld). Set 
them in a stove, and when the top is dry, 
turn tliem out, and put tliem to dry again; 
dien cut them into whatever fornn yoa 

C lease, put them into the stove or oven to 
ardsn, then hiy them on sieves, and wlien 
tliorougbly dry, place them in boxes with 
paper between. Aa they are apt to become 
moist, they shoukl be looked at fireqpeotly. 

POMEGRANATE JELLY, TRANS- 
PARENT. Take tlie seeds from ISw 
very fine pomegranates, from which extract 
die juice by pressing it hard through a 
horse-hair sieve ; fiher this juice ami mix if 
with some sirup tinged of a rose cokMr^ with 
a little cochineal ; add the isir^lass to th^ 
and finish aa usual. (See Jttfy frmty 

POMEGRANATE SIRUP, Take 
five very ripe large pomegranates, extract 
the seeds (wliicli must be very red); cmsh, 
and put them into a skillet, with half a 
pint of water ; set tliem on tlie fire till soft» 
and then squeeze die juice through a new 
coarse cfodi ; clarify a pound and ImIT of 
«ufl;ar, and boil it to iW^jU, then add tl» 
juice, boil diem togedier to the usoal con* 
sistence of sirups. It must not be bottled 
until quite cold. This number ai \ 
granates will yield a quart of simp. 

POUPELIN. Put into at 
glasses of water, a quarter of a 
butter, die xestt of a lemon, ami 
of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as' 
as it begins to boil, take it oflT, and pitt in 
'as much sifbd flour as will nmke a paste 
the consistence of ehoua, then repboe it 
on the fire, and keep stirring till it dries; 
make a siinikftr mixture, a^ wlien that 
also is dry, put bodi into a Inortar, with 
half a pound of powder siigar, an ouaoe of 
orange-flowers, and two eggs at a time, un- 
til five and twenty or thirty are used, by 
which time the paste wiU lie of the psoper 
consistence, then pour it into a ligbtfy iW 
tered tin ; put it into a moderate oven, aad 
leave it. In three^ hours' time, if the 
poupelin is of a nice gold color, take it 
out, cut off the top, and with a apooa re- 
move all the inside, then set it in dtt 
oven to dry. When cold, spread aH otec 
the interior apricot roarmahide, on whidi 
strew sweet macaroons cniahed, Cbea tan 
it on a dishy and serve 



of a pound of 
n, and a pinch 






HAS 



«9S 



ROB 



QUINCE CAKES. . Pare and core 
half a d<nefi qmoea, boil diem till qahe 
Boft; then nib the pulp through « sieve, and 
•train it; mix this with half a pint of sirup 
of quinces, and tlie same of sirup of barber- 
ries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar ; 
boil the whole to eaate, and then pour it 
into small shallow moulds, of any shape 
yon please ; let them cool a little, and then 
cfary them iu a stove. 

QUINCE CAKES TRANSPARENT. 
Take a quart of sirup of quinces, and half a 
pint of the sirup of barlierries ; set them on 
a gentle fire, boi and skim than well; then 
a<M two pouncb and a half of fine sugar, 
keep stirring until it rewhes candy heigiit; 
then take it ofi*, and when neai*ly cold, by 
it, in any form you please, on tin pkites. 
Dry them in a stove. 



R. 

RASPBERRY CAKES. Gather some 
raspl)erri«s before they are quite ripe, pick, 
and lav them in a stove to diy; then beat 
Chem in a mortar. Take a pound and 
quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to 
€a»8e; then weigh half a pound of raspber- 
ries, dried, as above; throw them into tlie 
sirup, with half a spoonfiil o( white of c^g, 
beaten in cream; stir it carefiilly, give it a 
boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. 

RASPBERRIES OF MARCHPANE. 
Take a pound of marchpane, the juice of 
ibm* lemons, a quarter of a pound of rasp- 
berry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these 
toseilier widi a strong wooden spatula ; tlieo 
add two handfuls of nour, and some powder 
Bugar; wlien well worked up, roll them into 
pieces about the size of a finger, cut these 
into dice, roll each into a bail, pinch the 
top into a point, so as to resemble tlie form 
of a raspberry: tlien put them one by one 
into paper cases, which place in a dry 
warm place, for eiglit or ten days. At the 
end of tliat time, put a portion of sirup of 
raspberries, a little cochineal, and a small 
quantity of powder-sugar into a pan ; mix 
them together with a spoon, and then tlirow 
into it a couple of handfuls of the raspb^'- 
ries; take tlie pan in both hands, and shake 
it about, so that the raspberries may be 
equally covered with the red sinip; then 
put sugar a la greU on a large slieet of 
paper, spread it out a little, and while the 
raspberries are wet with iie sirup, throw 



them into the tugiir; then take the four 
comers of the paper, shake it about well* 
by which means the sugar will adhwe to 
the raspberries in all parts, and |five them 
a perfect resemblance to the real fruit; take 
them out carefully one by one, lay tliem on 
paper, and put them in a warm place for 
some days. These artificial raspberries are 
of a pleasant flavor, and will keep several 
years. 

RASPBERRY MARMALADE. Take 
double the weight of rasptieiTies to that of 
sugar. Rub tte fruit through a sieve, and 
put the pulp into a saucepan; set it on the 
fire, and stir- till it is reduced to half ; thee 
pour on die sugar, previously clarified and 
boiled to petit baule, stir it well in, put it 
on the fire, give it a few boils, and thee 
pour it into pots. 

RASPBERRIES PRESERVED. Take 
five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe 
raspberries, pick, and put them into a pre- 
serving pan, with an equal weight of clari- 
fied sugar, boiled to petit boufe; when 
they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim, and pour the whole into a pan till the 
next day, then drain tlie fruit, and put it 
into jars ; put to the sirup about two glass^ 
es of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil 
the sugar to la^utppe, and then pour it 
over the raEiplierries ; add afterwards, about 
a spoonful of currant jelly to each pot, and 
when cold, lay on brandy papers, and tie 
them down. 

RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Take 

ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 
and a h^lf of raspberries, five pounds and a 
half of red and two pounds of black cur- 
rants; pick, and mix tliese fruits tc^ether, 
press die juice from diem, m^sure it, and 
for every quart of juice, take half a pound 
of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy^ 
dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in 
the brandy, a draclim of mace, and two 
drachms of cloves. I^t die whole stand 
some time, fiher, and bottle it. Keep them 
well corked. 

ROSES, CAN DIED. Crisp two hand- 
fuls of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, 
boil them to /or< $ouffle, then take the pan 
fi'om the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the sir- 
up run from tlie leaves, rubbing tlie latt^ in 
your hands, then dry them in a stove. Boil 
your sugar again to $ouffie, adding a litiJe 
carmine to color it, have a pro|)er mould 
ready, pour the sugar into' it, and put the 
flowers on it, push them down lightly with 
a fork, that they may be completely cover- 
ed with the sugar; place the mould in a 
moderate stove or oven for five days, then 



8ES 



294 



STR 



Araln oflTtbe simp; lay a abeeC of paper on 
the table, and turn the candy quickly out 
of tile mould. 

ROSES, OONSERVE OF. Boil half 
a pound of sugar to fort Bouffie, pour into 
this sinip the best double-distilled rose 
water; lioil it again to fort perle, mix 
with it a little pre|jared cochineal or car- 
mine to color it, and pour your conserve 
into moulds. 

ROSE RED DROPS. Take a small 
quantity of red baiitard saffron, and a little 
calcined alum, boil tliese in some water until 
it is sufficiently tinned for your purpose; 
then filter or strain it througli a very close 
linen cloth; put five or six s|XK>nful8 of sift- 
ed sugar into tlie pan, dilute it with the 
colored water, work it well with the botM a 
tabeller, and set it over a chafing-dii«li ; when 
it liegins to Imil, add two more spoonfuls 
of sugar, and having worked it well, per- 
(ume it with s(»me drops of essence of roses, 
and finish as directed. (See Orange-Jloiuh 
er Drop$.) 

ROSSOLS. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of pickcNi orange-flowers, a |x>uQd 
of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, 
and two of cloves (both bruised); put them 
into a cucurbite with three gallons of pure 
water; on dixtiiling this, it will yield a g-al- 
lon ami a half, in which (ii8«f>lve twelve 
pounds of fine sugar broken n|) ; add to it 
an e(]u:il (f4iantity of spirit of jessamine, col- 
or it crimson with cochineal, filter and but- 
xk it. 



S. 



SEEDS, SUGARED. Tliase are done 
in tlie same manner as sugared almonds. 
Tlie seeds most generally used f<)r this pur- 
pose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 

llie l>est niethod of proceeding is as fol- 
lows: pUu-e a small preserving-pan over a 
Ghaixx)al fire, on the side of which have a 
chafing dir^h, on wnich keep a pan with a 
quantity of sugar lK>iled to Htse; (this su- 
gar shtrtdd lie kept quite hot, but not boil- 
ing) ; on tluj otiier side have some fine pow- 
der. When HO far prepared, put your seeds 
into die pan, and as soon as they Ijegin to 
heat, pour over them a large s|H)onful or 
two of the sirup; stir them aliout, that all 
may be thorougtiiy saturated with it ; then 
sprinkle over it a liandful or t%vo of powder, 
still shaking the pan to make the seeds 
equally white. When dry, pour on mme 
more simp, tlien the powder, and continue 
this alternately until your seeds are suf- 



ficiently large; then lay^tliem on a sieve, 
keep tliem in a warm place for some days, 
after which put them into glass bottles. 

SOUFFLE FRANCAIS. Make a 
ermutade eleven inches in diameter, and 
three and three-quarters in lieiglit; put 
round it three sheets of buttered pafier, and 
bake it. 

Take twelve glasses of boiiif^ miUc, ia 
which infiise whatever iiwredienta yoo inaj 
think proper, such as vanilla, oofiee, orai^^ 
flowers, &c. (tlie proportions will be fomid 
under tlie difierent articles). In the mean- 
time, wash a pound of rice thoroughly in 
warm water, then pot it into a saucepan 
of cokl water, and when it has boiled a few 
minutes, strain the rice, and pat it with 
youi inftision into another saucepan, and 
set it again on the fire; as soon as it boils, 
place the saucepan on liot ashes,^ that the 
rice may burst gradually ; in tbree<4|uartie» 
of an hour,, add a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quartei-s of a pound .of iJesii batter, 
and a pinch of sah, stir tliem well in; |)ut 
fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, tliat the 
rice may be kept ctmstantly stnameriiig fur 
an hour, by which time it ought to be per- 
fectly soft, and should be rubbed through a 
boltmg-clotli ({iiickly, like a puree; put this 
into another saucepan over hut allies, to 
keep it warm. Take sijtteen eggs, fey»* 
rate tlie yolks and whites, beat the (•trmer 
weU, and whisk the latter till neni ly firm ; 
tlien mix the yolks with the rice (taking 
off the asihes); the prefmration ought to Ijq 
of the same CAiusistence as a cream paii$» 
nere; add,, at first, a quarter, and after- 
wards the whole of Uie whites; stir tliein in 
as lighily as for biscuit paste; the whole lie- 
ing tlioroiighly amalgamated, pour ii into 
the crou«/«cfs,,and pla(« it in a iiuxkirate 
oven for two lioors and a half; when duiM%, 
cover a baking tin with {"ed cin<lers, on 
which place the souffle the mouient it is 
taken out of tlie oven; this prevents its 
felling, whilst you mask it wilb pnvvder- 
sugar, and glaze with tlie salamander; car- 
ry it into tlie dining-room on a tin, kive a 
dish ready with a napkin fiilded on it; 
place the souffle on the dish, and let it be 
served immediately. Remember that a 
souffle cannot be served too quickly. 

STRAWBERRY, (X)MPOTE OF. 

This is made in the same manner as Rasp- 
berries, only that the etrawlierries do nai 
require being mixed wiili any other fiiiiu 

STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. Take 
some very ripe fresh strawlierries, pick, and 
crush them through a tainmy. For every 
dessert s|MHinfnl of juice, allow six ounces 
of sugar; boil tliis to fort per If ^ tuk« it 



sua 



295 



SUG 



off the fire, and poor in the joice ; stir them 
toother with a silver spoon, anti] die con- 
serve begins to whiten and drv, then pnt it 
into moalds or paper cases, if tlie conserve 
be too white, adif a little carmine to the 



STRAWBERRY MARCHPANE. 
Take two pounds of sweet almonds, two 
pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of 
picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to 
a fine paste, and mix them with the sugar 
(boiled to peHt bouUi) crush, and strain 
the juice of the frail, whicli add to the al- 
mond paste and sirup ; stir the mixture well, 
set it on hot ashes, and continue stirring until 
the paste is sofhciently done; this may be 
proved by laying a piece on the back of your 
hand; if it may be removed without its 
sticking, it is enough ; when cuki, sfn-ead it 
over a sbb, and cut it of any sise and shape 
you think proper. 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. Take four 
pounds of sugar, and' break it into pieces ; 
pot into a preserving-pan the white of an 
egg, and a glass of pure spring water ; mix 
them well with a whisk, add anotlier glass, 
still whipping, until two quarts of watet* 
have been put in ; when the pan is full uf 
froth, throw in the si^r, and set it on the 
fire, being careful to skim it every time die 
scum rises, which will be tlie case as the 
sugar boils up. After a few boilings, the 
sugar will rise so high as to run over the 
edges of the pan, tp prevent which, tlirow 
on it a little cold water; this will lower it 
instantly, and give time for the skimming, 
for the scum should never be taken off whilst 
the sugar is bubbling ; the cold water stills 
it, and that is the moment to skim it. Re- 
peat this operation carefully thiiee or four 
times, when a whitish light scum only will 
rise; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, 
slightly wetted, over a basin, and pour the 
sugar through it. 

The scum thus taken off, put into a china 
basin ; and when the sugar is clarified, wash 
the pan and the skimmer with a glass of 
water, which put to the scum, and set it 
aside for more common purposes. 

SUGAR, Different Degrees of Pre- 
paring. The various purposes to which 
sugar is applied, require it to be in different 
states; these are called degrees, and are 
thirteen in numlicr, called as tbnows: 

PetU Ldase, or First Degree. Re- 
place the clarified sugar in the preserving- 
pan, to boil gently, take a drop of it on Ute 
thumb, toucli it with the fore^finger; if, on 
opening them, it draws to a fine thread, and 
in breaking, forms two drops on each finger, 
it is at the right point. 

25* 



lAsse, Second Degree. A little more 
boiling brinsB it to this point; when the 
thread will draw fiirther before it breaks. 

Petit Perle, Third Degree. At this 
point the thread may be drawn as far as the 
span will open, without breaking. 

Grand Perle, Fourth Degree. On 
still inci^easing the boiling, little rained balls 
are formed on tiie surfiice of the sugar. 

Petit Queue de Cochon, Fifth Degree* 
Take up some of the sugar on a skimmer, 
and drop it on the rest, when it sbouki form 
a slanting streak on the sur&ce. Boil it a 
little longer, and it will reach the 

Grande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth 
Degree. Tiie streak or tail is now larger. 

Souffle, Seventh Degree. Take out a 
skiinmerftil of the sugar, blow through it^ 
and small sparks of sugar will fly from it. 

Petit-Plume, Eighth Degree. The 
same proof as above; tlie sparks shoukl tw 
larger a..d stronger. 

Grande Plume, Ninth Degree. Take 
the sugar in the skimmer, as before, give it 
a shake, and if the sparks are large, and 
adhere togetlier on rising, it is at the right 
point. 

Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree. I>ip 
your fingers in cold water, mid then into 
the sugar instantly, and again into the wa* 
ter, when I be sugar will roll into a bail* 
which will be supple wlien cold. 

6rros Boulet, Eleventh Degree. At 
this point, die ball or iMillet will be harder 
when cx)ld than at tlie last. 

Casse, Twelfth Degree. Prove as 
above; the bullet should crumble between 
the fingers, and on biting, will stick to llie 
teeth ; at the next point. 

Caramel, l^htrteenth Degree, It 
should snap clean. This point is very diffi« 
cult to attain, for in increasing the height, 
tlie sugar is apt to burn ; it is belter there- 
fore to try the proof very frequently. 

Another caramel is frequently used by the 
confectioner, and is of a deep color ; it is 
made hj putting a little water to the sug^r, 
and boiling it wiihout skimming, or otlier- 
wise touching tlie sugar, till of the right 
color, dien take it off and use immediately. 

If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to 
miss die right point, add a little cold water, 
and boil once more. 

Observations. — The skimmer should 
neA'er lie left in tlie preserving-pan after die 
sugrir is clarified, nor after the scum is re- 
moved. 

Be very careful not to stir or disturb the 
sugar, as that would cause its diminution. 

In boiling die sugar (particularly tlie two 
last degrees), die sugar is continually rising 
and falling; and on falling, leaves marks OD 
the sides of the pan, which the heat of the 
fire would soon bum, and thereby spilit'the 



TRl 



3dd 



VAW 



whole of the migur ; to avoid this, have by 
the side of you a pan of cold water, and a 
ipiHige, with which wipe tlie Mdes of the 
fKin carefully, tlie iiMtaat after the iiagar has 

SUGAR LIKE SNOW. Blanch a 
quarter of a pound of bitter alimmda, pound 
thera to a very fine paste in a marljke mor- 
tar, with the whites of four egj^; when 
perfectly smooth, add a pound of the best 
lump sugar (in powder), and five or six 
more whites of eggs; stir all together well, 
until of such consistence that it may be 
kneaded without adhering to the hands. 
Divide this preparation into two parts, one 
of which, tinge of a re«l color, eitlier with 
bol%u arfnena, or cochineal, and perfume it 
with essential oil of rot^es or liei^mot; 
leave tlie other portion of paste while, but 
ibvor it as folbws: — grate the rind of two 
fine sound lemons on a small piece of sug-ar, 
•crape off the surface, and when pounded in 
a small mortar, work it into the uncolored 

Krtion of sugar-paste, then roll it out td about 
If an inch in thickness (having previously 
sprinkled the slab with powder-sugar,) cut 
k with a tin-paste cutter about two inrhes 
diameter; arrange them on white paper, 
which place on a baking tin, and put them 
into a moderate oven for about thi'ee-quar- 
ters of an hour ; proceed in the same manner 
with the colored paste. When cold, detach 
them from the paper. 

SUGAR PASTE. Take a pound of 
flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of iMitter, a little salt, one 
egg; mix all together with a little water. 
This paste may be used fur any secood- 
I dish. 



T. 

TABLET OF PATIENCIE. Take 
eight eg^, and whip the whites to a firm 
■now; m the meantime have the yolks 
beaten up with six ounces of powder-sugar; 
{both these operations should be peaformed 
£>r at least half an hour) ; then mix the two 
together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and 
when well incorporated, pour in lialf a pint 
4ii rose or orange-flower water; stir the 
whole together for some time. Have ready 
0ome tin plates, well rubbed with butter; 
lake a funnel that has three or four tubes, 
fill it with the paste, and push out your 
tabUU: when liie tin pUtes are full, put 
them into a pretty warm oven. When done, 
taka them from the tins whilst hot. 



TRIFLE. (1) 



Ihreopiataof 



cream ; add to it hatfa pint of mountain wiik, 
grate in the rind of a lemon, MpieexK \n the 
juice, and grate in lialf a nutmeg ; ivliisk tJiis 
up, lay llie froth on a laigesievC) ami tiie sieve 
over a disli that has ratafia cukcx, maca- 
roons, sweet almonds, bliknched and p«Hind- 
ed, citron, and candied orange-peel, cut into 
small pieces, some currant jel^, and rasp- 
berry jam in it, that the ii(|iior may run 
upon them ; when tliey are soaked, lay them 
in tlie dish yon intend to serve in, put on the 
froth as high as possible, well drained; 
strew over nonpareils, and stick on Uttb 
slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peet. 

TRIFLE. (2) Lay some nncaroow 
and ratafia drops over the bottom of your 
dish, and soak them well with raisin wine^ 
when soaked, pour on them a very rich ooU 
custard. It must stand two or three inches 
thick ; on that put a layer of rasplierry jam, 
and cover the whole with a very Jiigfa whip 
made the preceding day, of rich cream, the 
whites of two e^;s, well beaten, stigar, lem- 
on-peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a 
whisk. It is best to make it the day before 
it is wanted, being more solid and better 
tasted. 

TRIFLE. (3) Put halfa pound of maca- 
roons into a dish, pour over them some white 
wine, and a pint of custard over that, maka 
a whip, and put oo it; garnish according to 
your fancy. 



V. 

VANILLA CREAM. Take two 
drachms of vanilla, a- quart of milk, the 
yolks of three eggs, five ounces <^ sugar, and 
a pint of cream ; beat up the eggs well with 
the milk, andtlien add the other ingredients; 
set the whole on a moderate fire, and stir if 
constantly with a wooden spoon, till the 
cream will adh«:e to it; then strain, and 
serve it cold. 

VANILLA CREAM, BOLTEa 

Take as much cream as will fill tlie mouU 
you intend to use, and boil it up a few 
times, with tlie proportionate quantities of 
vanilla and sugar; tlien let it cool, and if 
the mould will contain a quart, mix twebs 
yolks and three whole eggs with the cfeam^ 
and run it five times through a boking cloth. 
Butter the mould, pour the cream into it, 
and place it in the bain mmxe^ but not loo 
hot ; when the cream is set, which you any 
know by touching it gently with your finger, 
turn it on a disli; take the remainder of 
the cream, stir it over the fire like whiM 



i 



V£R 



297 



VIO 



p, an'1 as soon as it sticks to the spoon 
(whicli umet lie of wwxl)) Cake it off, stir it 
an instant, and tiien pour it over tiie other 
oreain, and serve cuid* 

VANILLA CREAM WHIPPED. Put 
a pinch of ginn-chagon into a pint oTcreain, 
add a sniali quantity oforan^flower \«aler, 
powdernnigar to the taste, and a little niiik, 
in which mme vanilla has lieen b<iile<l, and 
tite milk sti-aineti; mhip these ingredients 
with a whisk, until tlie whole is snlficientiy 
frotlied ; dien lay it carefully on a dish) in a 
pyramidal form, and serve it. 

VANILLA CREAM ICE. Whiek the 
whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a 
preserving pan, pour on tliero the yolks of 
eight, and a ixiutid of rifled sugar, whip the 
whole well with a whisk, and (luur in by de- 
grees two quarts of iMjiling cream; continue 
to whip it for some little time, and then put 
it on die fire, with half an ounce of vanilla 
tmiis^ ; still whipping, when it has boiled 
up three or four times, strain it, and fi-eeze 
as usual. (See Ice.) 

VANILLA CREAM LIQUEUR. 
Dissolve over die fire two pounds ten ounces 
of broken sugar, in three pints of purified 
river water; when it has boiled up once, 
pour it into a jar, on three drachms of va- 
nilla, cut in pieces, and half a gniin of amber. 
When quite cokl, add three pints of good 
brandy, cover tlie vessel, and when it has 
tnfiised six days, color it with a little pre- 
pared cochineal; filter, and bottle the li- 
queur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal the 
corks. 

VANILLA STICKS. Take some 
marchpane paste, a quarter of a pound of 
chocolate, and the same .of vanilla; mix 
these well into the paste, and then fonn it 
into sticks, like the vanilla in its original 
form; lay them on a sheet of paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

VERDE. Infuse the rind of three lem- 
ons and four oranges in two quarts of rum 
or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, close- 
ly stopped ; then squeeze the juice through 
' a strainer; if the fruit is good, there will be 
half a pint, and if there is not so much, make 
it that ; add to it a pound and a quarter of 
sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and 
keep stirring till all the su^* is dissolved ; 
when it is dissolved, stir in the peel and 
spirits, and then one pint of cokl new milk; 

nit through a txig till clear; bottle it. 
ill keep good for twelve months. 

V£?JUICE. (1) Verjuice is the yoimg, 
unripe, anJ sour grape; it is frequenlly 



used in French cookery, but very raiely |Nit 
into English dishes. 

VERJUICE. (2) Take some crab 
apples wlien tlie kernels turn black, fey them 
in a heap to sweat; then picic them from 
the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a 
mash, and press Uie juice through a bag of 
course hair clotli into a clean vessel; it will 
be fit for use in a month *s time. If inten- 
ded for white pickles, distil it in a coldstilL 
It may be put into sauces when lemon is 
w^mling. 

VESPETRO. Take half a pound of 
each of the folkiwing seeds: angelica, cori* 
ander, fennel, and caraway, Uie rinds of 
four lemons, and as many oranges, infuse all 
these in two gallons ana a half of the best 
brandy, close tlie vensel beraietically. In 
five days time, distil it in the bain marie 
alembic, and draw irom tlie above quantity 
five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven 
pounds of sugar in a gallon of pure river 
water ; add this sirup to the liqueur, filter^ 
and bottle it. 

VIOLETS CANDIED. Pick off the 
green stalks Gram some double violets ; boil 
soiue sugar to eouffies put in the violets, 
and keep tliem in till the sugar again boils 
to souffles dien rub the sugar against the 
sides of the pan until it is white; stir all 
together till the sugar leaves the violets, and 
then sift and dry them. 

VIOLETS TO ROCK CANDY. 
Pick the leaves off the violets; then boil 
some of the best, and finest sugar to souffle, 
pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in 
die fonn of a dripping-pan, about three inches 
deep; then strew thie violet leaves as thick 
as possible on the top, and put it into a hot 
stove, in which let it remain for ten days ; 
when it is hard candied, break a hole in ono 
comer of it, and drain off all the sirup; 
break it out, and pfece it in heaps upon a 
tin to dry in a stove. 

VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. Take 
a quarter of a pound of early violets, picked ; 
bruise them in a mortar; boil two pounds 
of sugar to eaese, take it off, put in the pulp, 
and mix them together over the fire, and 
when the sugar bubbles up, pour the conserve 
into the rnotuds. 

VIOLET DR9PS. (1) Take a cer- 
tain quantity of sirup of violets, which mix 
with an equal portion of water; use this 
mixture, and make your drops precisehr as 
directed. You may, if you please, peruime 
it with oil of violets, but that is noi neces- 
sary, as the sirup, imparts sufficient odour 



no 



398 



W^R 



TIOLET DROPS. (2) Take the 
juice of six lemons, mix willi it some finehr 
siAed powdered sugar, and two spoonfun 
or essence of violets, and cdor it of a fine 
Mue color; mix the whde well together, 
and dry it over the fire, the same as all oth- 
^n, and drop them off a knife on paper, the 
usual size ot drops; let tliem stand till cold, 
be carefiil that your mixture is not too tliin ; 
when the drops are cold, put them into pa- 
pered boxes. 

VIOLETS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
three pounds of violets, and four pounds of 
sugar, put the former into a mortar and 
bruise them to a pulp; in the meantime boil 
the sugar to tot^ffle, then add the flowers; 
stir them together, add two pounds of a|)ple 
marmalade, and when it has boiled up a 
fisw times, put the marmalade into pots. 

VIOLETS, SIRUP OP. Pound very 
lightly in a marble mortar, and with a 
vi^oden pestle, one pound of picked violets; 
warm gradtMlly a glass, or earthenware ves- 
sel with a small opening, into which put the 
pounded flowers, and pour over thein two 
pounds of boiling water; close die vessel 
nermetically, and place it on hot ashes, re- 
newing them when necessary, to ke^ up an 



equal temperatnre for twelve boara; aftor 
tlMt time pass the whole thnxigh a cbae^ 
ckith, squeexing it weU; let itstafnd fiir half, 
an hour ; then pour it off very carefiilly, that 
all the sediment may remain at the IxMlom; 
weigh it, and the aoove quantities will have 
yielded seventeen ounces ; put inlo a matnsi 
two pounds of crashed sugar with the infii- 
sion, close the matFaas tight, aad set it m 
the bain marie, over a moderate fire; shake 
it occasionally to accelerate the diasobtioa 
of the sugar, and when fjerfectly disaolved, 
let the fire so out and the matrasa oool gnd' 
uallv. When cokl, poor the eimp hat» 
bottles. 



W. 

WORMWOOD CREME UQUEUR. 

Distil in the 6a»n-mart> the zests of two 
oranges, and half a pound of flesh gatliered 
wormwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, 
which will produce nearly half the quantity 
of liqueur. ^ Dissolve four pounds of sugar 
in as many pints of filtered river water ; mix 
this sirup with the liqueur} run it tivoqgh 
a jelly-bag, and bottle it. 



ICJ* Many receipts for Confectionery may be found in the first 
part of this Book. 



EXPLANATION 



Ofsome of the Terms made use of in the foregoing Pages, 

AteUU — Small silver skewere. 

BtUta — A French 8%veet yeast cake. 

Bain-Marie — See the word in itti place. 

Bouquet — A bunch of parsley and scailioBB tied up to put in loupe, &c. 

Bouquet garrUt or Astaisonne — ^Tlie same, with the addition of doves and i 

nerhn. 

Bourguignote — A ra^ont of truflks. 
Braite — See word in its place. 
Brioche — A French ye.i8t «ike. 

BuiMon — A whimsical method of dressing up pastry, &e. 
Capilotade — A ooinmnn bash of poultry. 
Caramel, nee page 295. 
Castte, see pa^e, 295. 
Civet ^A. hash of gnnne or wiM fowl. 

Compiegne — A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, &c. ftc. 
Compote — A fine mixed ragout to garnish white pouitQ', &c.; abo a method of stewiiy 

fiuit with sirup fur desserts. 
CompotifT — A di<4i amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the eompote. 
Couronne^^To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. 
Court or short (to stew) — To reduce a nauce very thick. 
Crcuatade — Bread baked in a mtnild, and scooped out to contain minces, fce. 
CroutoTU — Bread cut in various shaijes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. 
Dorez — Ti> wash pastry, &c. with yolk of ^g well beaten. 
Z>orure-^ Yolks of eggs beaten well. 
Entrees — Are dishes served at the commencement, or during the first eoorse of tfa* 

dinner. 
Entremets — Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third oonrses. 
Farce, Ktulfing. 

Financiere — An expensive, high]y«flavored, mixed ragout. 
Flan — A French custard. 
Glaze, (to fall to a) — To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhera to the 

meat. 
Glaze — Is usually made from reduced consomme, or juices from the bottoms of braised 

white meats: it should be preserved in jelly-pots. 
Glaze, Glace t or Ice — Is compos^ of white of «gg beaten with powd0r.fiagar. 
Godi-oeau — A ctjnimon veal forcemeat. 
Grand Phone, see page 295. * 

Grand Ferle, was page 295. 
Grand Queue de Cochon, see page 295. 
Gros Boulet, see page 295. 

GroB (au) — TiuK sigiifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. 
Graiin—K layer of some particubr articl*; is spread over a silver, or any other dish that 

will liear the fire, an<l placed on a stove or hot ashes until it bums to it. 
JFfors (Tceuvre— »A small dish, served during the first course. , 

Hatelets — Tile same its Atelets. 
Ixird — ^To stick bacon, or otiier specified articles, into poultry, meat, ftc. ; it is done by 

means of a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square, and holkiw; 

the laidon is |Mit into this hollow, the point is then inserted into the meat, and on be* 

ing drawn out, leaves llie birdon stand mg up in its proper place. 
LMrdona — ^The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of 

larding meat, 8cc. &c. 
Larding-pan-^An utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. 
Ltiaison^A finisli with yolks of eggs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. 



900 COOKERY TERMS EXPLAINED. 

Xifttf, we page 295. 

Mad«leine9--CBLkeB made of the tame oompoeitkm as poand-cakef. 

Jtfat^re— Soape, fcc. dretwd without ment. 

Marinade — A prepared pickle for meat, fish, fcc. 

JUatk—To cover completely. 

JVouillee^Aa Italian paste, resembling macaroni ; it is flat, instead of being in pipei> 

Panaila— Bread soaked in milk, used principaUy for quenelUt and fine fiunoes. 

Pa*f«r— To fly lightly. 

Pate— A raiaea cmst pifc 

PetU BotUet, see page 290. 

PetU Ueee, see page 295. 

PeUi Perle, see page 295. 

Petit Plume, see page 295. 

PetU Queue de Coehon^ see jn^ 296. 

P^jic— A light brajM for white meats. The diflerence between this and the braise «, 

that in the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so much done as ia 

the latter. 
Potage—HwAbier term for soup. 

Puree — Any meat, fish, or other article, boiled to a pulp, and rubbed thraqgfa a sieve. 
^uenellee — ^A fine force; it is generally poached when used. 
£fa/mi— A highly seasoned hash. 
Sauter—To fry very lip;htly. 
8abotiere» or 8orbetiere-~'A pewter or tm vessel, in which are placed the mooildB oon- 

taining the substance to be froien. 
Souffle, see pace 295. 
Tammif — ^A silk sieve. 
Toumer, or Turn — ^To stir a sauce; abo to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and firnha, 

neatly. 
Tomrte — A puff-paste pie. 
Fumur-^To take up sauce, or other liquid, in a spoon, and turn it over quickly. 



Mvrwvw^nvM 



RECEIPTS 



PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS 



N HISS LESUE. OF P HOADHJT fcA 



PREFACE. 



The foUowinff Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, and Sweetmeats, 
are original, and have been used by the author and many of her 
friends with uniform success. They are drawn up in a style so 
plain and minute, as to be perfectly intelligible to servants, and 
persons of the most moderate capacity. All the ingredients, with 
their proper quantities, are enumerated in a list at the head of each 
receipt, a plan which will greatly facilitate the business of orocur- 
ing and preparing the requisite articlea. 

There is frequently much difficulty in following directions in 
£nglish and French Cookery Books, not only from their want of 
explicitness, but from the difference in the fuel, fire-places, and 
cooking utensils, generally used in Europe and America; and 
many of the Eurdpean receipts are so complicated an^tlai^j^ous, 
that our female cooks are afraid to undertake the arduous 'task of 
making any thing from them. 

The receipts in this ntlie oook are, m every sense of the word, 
American ; but the writer patters herself that (if exactly follow- 
ed) the articles produced from them will not^'be . .i^i^d inferior to 
any of a similar description made in the Etti»|>4ifr' manner. Ex- 
perience has proved, that pastry, cakes, &e. prepared precisely 
according to these directioc.9 wij] not fail to be excellent: bu^ 
where economy is expedient, a .pixii^A^ of rne seasonmg, that is, 
the spice, wine, brandy, rose-water, essence of lemon, &c. may 
be omitted without any essential deviation of flavor, or difference 
of appearance; retaining, however, the given proportions of eggs, 
butter, sugar, and flour. 

But if done at home, and by a person that can be trusted, it 
will be proved, on trial, that any of these articles may be made in 
the best and most liberal manner at one half of the cost of the 
same articles supplied by a confectioner. And they will be found 
particularly useful to families that live in the country or in small 
towns, where nothing of the kind is to be purchased. 



PASTRY. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

In making pastry or cakes, it is best to begin by weighing out 
the ingredients, sifling the flour, pounding and sifling the sugar 
and spice, washing the butter, and preparing the fruit. 

Sugar»can be powdered by pounding it in a large mortar, or by 
rolling it on a paste-board with a rolling-pin. It should be made 
very fine and always sifted. 

AH sorts of spice should be pounded in a mortar,except nutmeg, 
which it is better to grate. If spice is wanted in large quantities, 
it may be ground in a mill. 

The butter should always be fresh and very good. Wash it in 
cold water before you use it, and then make it up with your hands 
into hard lumps, squeezing the water well out. 

If the butter and sugar are to be stirred together, always do 
that before the eggs are beaten, as (unless they are kept too warm) 
the butter and sugar will not be injured by standing awhile. For 
stirring them, nothing is so convenient as a round hickory stick 
about a foot and a half long, and somewhat flattened at one end. 

The eggs should not be beaten till afler all the other ingredients 
are ready, as they will fall very soon. If the whites and yolks are 
to be beaten separately, do the whites first, as they will stand 
longer. 

Eggs should be beaten in a broad shallow pan, spreading wide 
at the top. Butter and sugar should be stirred in a deep pan with 
straight sides. 

Break every egg by itself, in a saucer, before you put it into the 
pan, that in case there should be any bad ones, they may not spoil 
the others. 

£ggs are beaten most expeditiously with rods. A small quantity 
of white of egg may be beaten with a knife, or a three-pronged 
fork. 

There can be no positive rules as to the exact time of baking 
each article. Skill in baking is the result of practice, attention, 
and experience. Much, of course, depends on the state of the 
fire, and on the size of the things to be baked, and something on 
the thickness of the pans or dishes. 

If you bake in a stove, put some bricks in the oven part to set 
the pans or plates on, and to temper the heat at the bottom. Large 
sheets of iron, without sides, will be found very useful for small 
cakes, and to put under the pans or plates. 

26 



PASTRY. 



PUFF PASTE. 

Half a pound and two ounces of gifted flour. 
Half pound of best fresh butter, washed. 
A Jittie cold water. 

This will make fuff-^a9tefor two Pud- 
dings, or for one soup-plate Fie, or 
for four email Shelle, 

Weigb half a pound and two onnoes of 
flour, and sift it through a bair^sieve into 
a large deep dish. Take out about one 
fourth of the flour, and lay it aside on one 
comer of your paste-board, to roll and 
sprinkle with. 

Wash, in cold water, half a pound of 
the bttt fresh butter. Squeeie it hard with 
vour hands, and make it up into a round 
Kimp. Divide it in four equal parts ; lay 
them on one side of your paste-board, and 
luive ready a glass of cold water. 

Cut one of the four pieces of batter into 
the pan of flour. Cut it as small as possi- 
ble. Wet it gradually with a very little 
water (tuo much water will make it tough) 
and mix it well witli the point of a large 
case-knife. Do not touch it with your 
hands. When the dough gets into a lump, 
sprinkle oii the middle of the board some 
of the flour that you laid aside, and lay the 
dough upon it, turning it out of tiie pan 
with the knife. 

Rub theroUing-oin with flour, and sprin- 
kle a little on the lump of paste. Roll it 
out tirin, quickly, and evenly, pressing on 
the rolling-pin very lightly. Then take 
the second of the four pieces of butter, and, 
with the point of your knife, stick it in 
little bits at equal distances all over the 
sheet of paste. Sprinkle on some flour, 
and fold up the dough. Flour the paste- 
board and rolling-pin again; throw a little 
flour on the paste and roll it out a second 
time. Stick the third piece of butter all 
over it in little bits. Throw on somefloin*, 
ibid up the paste) sprinkle a little more 
flour on the dough, and on the rolling-pin, 
and roll it out a third time, always pressing 
on it lightly Stick it over with the fourth 
and last piece of butter. Throw on a little 
more flour, fold up the paste and then roll 
it out in a large round sheet. Cut ofl* the 
sides, so as to make the sheet of a square 
form, and lay the slips of dough upon the 
square slieet. Fold it up with the small 
pieces of trimmings, in the inside. Score 
or notch it a little with the knife; lay it 
oa a plate and set it away in a cool place, 
but not where it can freeze, as that will 
make it heavy. 

Having made the pasta, prepare and mix 



your padding or pie. When the mnEtm 
IS finished, bring out your paste, floor the 
board and rolling-pin, and roll it out witk 
a short quidt stroke, and pressing the rol- 
ling-pin rather harder than while yea were 
patting tlie butter in. If the paste rises in 
Misters, it will be light, unless spoiled is 
baking. 

Then cut the sheet m half, fold up each 
piece and roll them oot onee more, wfat- 
ately, in round sheeto the size of yoorplale. 
Press on rather harder, but not too hard. 
Roll the sheets thinnest in the middle and 
thickest at the edges. If intended fiir pud- 
dings, lay them iu buttered soup-plates, and 
trim them evenly round the edges. If the 
edges do not appear thick enough, you may 
take the trimmings, pot them all to^edier, 
roH them out, and having cut them in slipi 
the breadth of the rim of the plate, lay 
them all round to make the paste thicker 
at the edges, joining them nicely and even- 
ly, as every patch or crack will appear dis- 
tinctlv when baked. Notch the rim hand- 
somely with a very sharp knife. Fill the 
di^ with the mixture of tlie puddii^, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. The paste 
should be of a light brown cok>r. If the 
oven is too slow, it will be soft and ciamni^; 
if too quick, it wiH not have time to rue 
as high as it ought to do. 

In making the best pufT-paste, try to avoid 
using more flour to-sfMrinkle and roll with, 
than the small portion which you have hid 
aside for that purpose at the beginning. 
If you make the dough too soft at first, by 
using too much water, it will be sticky, and 
require more floor, and will eveoUiaUy be 
tough when baked. Do not put your hands 
to It, as their warmth will injure it. Use 
the knife instead. Always roll from joe 
rather than to you, and press lightly on the 
rolling-pin, except at the last. 

It is difficult to make pufif-paste in die 
summer, unless in a cellar, or ver}' cool 
room, and on a marble table. The bntter 
should, if possible, be washed the night 
before, and kept Covered with ice till yon 
use it next day. The water should lmt« 
ice in it, and the butter should be iced as it 
sets on the paste-board. After the paste is 
mixed, it should be pat in a covered didi, 
and set in cold water till you are ready to 
give it the last rolling. 

With all these precaations to prevent iti 
being heavy, it will not rise as well, ot bft 
in any respect as good as in cold weather. 

The handsomest way of omameDting the 
edge of a pie or pudaing is to cut the rim 
in large square notches, and then fold o»« 
triangularly one comer of every natch. 



PIES AND TARTS. 



COMMON PASTE FOR PIES. 

A pound aad a half of lifted 6oor. 
Three quaiten of apoand of butter, washed. 

Thi$wiUtnak€9neUu^€pU9rtwa9maU 
one$. 

Sift Uie (Soar into a pan. Cnt the batter 
into two equal parts. Gut one half of the 
butter into the flour, and cut it up as small 
as possible. Mix it well with the flour, 
wetting it gradually with a little cold 
water. 

Spread some flour on yoor paste-board, 
take the lump of paste out of the pan, 
flour your rolling-pin, and roll out the paste 
into a lai^ sheet. Then stick it over with 
the remaining half of the butter in small 
pieces, and laid at eaoal distances. Throw 
on a little floor, fold op the sheet of paste. 



floor it slightly, and roll it oat again. 
Then fold it up, and cut it in half or ni 
four, according to the size of your pies. 
Roll it out into round sheets the siie of 
your oie-plates, pressing rather harder on 
the roUing*pin. 



Butter your pie-plates, lay on your under 

UBt, ana trim the eclge. Fifl the dish 

with the ingredients of whidi the pie is 



composed, and lay on the lid, in which yon 
must prick some holes, or cut a small slit 
in tlie top. Crimp the edges with a sfanrp 
knife. 

Heap up the ingredients so that the pie 
will be highest in the middle. 

Some think it makes common paste more 
crisp and light, to beat it hard on both sides 
with the rolUng-pin, after you ^ive it the 
first rolling, when all the butter is in. 

If the butter is very fret.'ii, you may mix 
with the flour a sak-spoonful of salt. 



PIES AND TARTS. 



MINCE PIES. 

Two pounds of boiled beeTs heart, or fresh 
tongue, or lean fresh beef— chopped when 
cold. 

Two pounds of beef suet, chopped fine. 

Four pounds of pippin apples, chopped. 

Two pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped. 

Two pounds of currants, picked, washed, 
and dried. 

Two pounds of powdered sugar. 

One quart of white wine. 

One quart of brandy. 

One wine-glass of rose-water. 

Two grated nutmegs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon \ 

A quarter of an ounce of cloves > powdered. 

A quarter of an ounce of mace ' 

A tea-spoonfiil of salt. 

Two large oranees. 

Half a pound of citron, cut in slips. 

Parboil a beef's heart, or a fresh tongue. 
After you have taken off the skin and fat, 
weigh two pounds. When it is cold, diop 
it vary fine. Take the inside uf the suet; 
weigh two pounds, and chop it as fine as 
possible. Mix tlie meat and suet togetlier, 
adding the salt. Pare, core, and chop the 
apples, and then stone and chop the raisins. 
Having prepared the currants, add tliem to 
the other fruit, and mix the fruit with the 
meat sind suet. Put in the sugar and spice, 
and the grated peel and juice of the oranges. 
Wet the whole with the rose water and 
liqw* aod mix all well together. 



Do not put in the citron till yon are fill- 
inff the pies: then lay it on the top. 

Make the paste, allowing for each pie, 
half a pound of butler and three quarters 
of a pound of sifted flour. Make it in the 
same manner as pufT-paste, but it will not 
be quite so rich. Lay a sheet of paste all 
over a soup-plate. Fill it with mince-meat, 
laying slips of citron on the top. Roll out 
a sheet of paste, for the lid of tlie pie. 
Put it on, and crimp the edges with a knife. 
Prick holies in the lid. 

Bake the pies half an hour in a brisk 
oven. — 

Keep your mince meat in a jar tightly 
covered. Set it in a dry, cool place, and 
occasionally add more brandy ta it. 

Instead of tlie heart or tongue, yuu may, 
if you choose, use part of a round of fresh 
beef. 



OYSTER PIE. 

A hundred large fi-esh oysters, or more if 

small. 
The yolks of six eggs boiled hard. 
A large slice of stale-bread, grated. 
A tea-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spoonful of pepper. 
A table-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, 

mace and cinnamon. 

Take a large round dish, butter it, and 
spread a rich paste over the sides, and 
round the edge., but not at tlie bottom. 



PIES AND TARTS. 



Sak oytten will not do for pies. They 
fhonld be fresh, and as large and fine as 
possible. 

Drain off part of the liquor from the 

Zters. Pot them into a pan, and season 
tn with pepper, salt and spice. Stir 
tliem well with the seasoning. Have ready 
the yolks of eges, chopped fine, and tlie 
grated bread. Pour the oystem (witli as 
much of their liquor as you please) into 
the dish that has the paste in it. Strew 
over them the chopped egg and grated 
bread. 

Roll oat the lid of the pie, and put it on, 
crimping the edges handsomely. 

Take a small sheet of paste, cut it into 
a si|uare and roll it up. Cut it with a 
■harp knife into the form of a doubte toUp. 

Make a^ slit in the centre of the upper 
crust, and stick the tulip in it. 

Cut out eight large leaves of paste, and 
lay then^on Uie lid. 

Bake the pie in a quick oven. 

If you think the oysters will be too much 
done by baking thero in the crust, you can 
substitute fur them, pieces of bread, to keep 
up tlie lid of the pie. 

Put the oysters with their liquor and the 
seasoning, chopped egg, grated bread, &c. 
into a pan. Cover diem closely, and let 
them just come to a boil, taking them off 
the fire, and stirring them frequently. 

When the crusl is baked, take the lid 
neatly off (loosening it round the edge with 
a kiiife) take out the pieces uf bread, and 
put in the oysters. Lay the lid on again 
very carefully. 

For oyster patties, the oysters are pre- 
pared in the same manner. 

They may be chopped if you choose. 
They must be put in small shells uf puff- 
paste. 



OXSTER PATTIES, 

Make some rich puff-paste, an<I bake ii 
in very small tin patty pans. When (k>ol, 
turn them out upon a large dislu 

Stew some large fresh oysters with a few 
cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, some yolk 
of egg boiled hard and grated, a liule but- 
ter, and as much of the oyster liciuor as 
will cover them. When they have stewed 
a little while, take them out of the pan, 
and set them away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each sliell 
of puff-paste. 



PIxNE-APPLE TART. 

One large pine-apple, or two small ones 
Half a pound of powdered white sugar. 
FRUIT PIES. Half a pint of cream. 

Fruit pies for family use, are . generally Pare your pine-^applc, cut it in nnsO 
made with common pasle, alluwinir tiirec picK^es, and leave out the core. Mix tlit 



quarters of a pound of butter to ft pomd 
and a half of fiour. 

Peaches and plums, for pies, should be 
cut in half, and the stones taken oat* 
Cherries also should be stoned, and red 
cherries only should be used lor pies. 

Apples should be cut into very thin slicei, 
and are much improved by a little leoMD- 
peel. Sweet apples are not good for pie>, 
as they are very insipid when baked, and 
seklora get thoroughlv don^. If green 
apples are used, they should first be slewed 
in as little water as possible, and made 
y/tHy sweet. 

Apples, stewed previous to baking, sboold 
not be done .till they break, but only till 
they arc tender. They should then be 
dmiued in a cullender, and chopped fine 
witli a knife or the edge of a spoon. 

In making pies of juicy fruit, it is a good 
way lo set a small tea-cup on the bottom 
crust, and lay tlie fruit all round it. The 
juice will collect under the cup, and not 
run out at the edges or top of the pie. 
The fruit should be mixed with a sufficient 
quantity of sugar, and piled up in tlie mid- 
dle, so as to make the pie highest in the 
centre. The upper crust shouki be pricked 
with a fork, or have a slit cut in the middle. 
The edges should be nicely crimped with a 
knife. 

Dried pcaclios, dried apples, and cran- 
berries should be stewed with a very little 
water, and allowed to ^t quite cold before 
they are put into the pie. If stewed fruit 
is put in warm, it will make the paste heavy. 

If your pies are made in the form of 
shells, or without lids, the fruit should al- 
ways be stewed first, ur it will not be suP 
ficiently done, as the shells (which should 
be of puff-paste) must not bake so long ai 
covered pies. 

Shells intended for sweetmeats, must be 
baked empty, and the fruit put into them 
before they gu lo table. 

Fruit pies with lids, should have loaf- 
Mgar grated over tliein. If they have 
Ixjen Ixiked the ilay before, they should be 
wa;ine<i in tlie stove, or near the fire, be- 
fore they are sent to table, to soften the 
crust, and make them taste fresh. 

Ilatiplierry and apple-pies are much im- 
proved by tak ing off the lid, and pouring 
in a little cream, just before they go to ta- 
ble. Replace the lid very carefully. 



PUDDINGS. 



pne-appte with the BOffar, and set it awfty 
m a covered diqh till rafficient juice is 
drawn oat to stew tbe fruit in. 

Make and bake two shells of paff>paste 
in soup-plates. 

Stew the pine-apple in the sugar and 
juice till ^ttite soft; then mash it to a mar- 
malade with the bacJL of a spoon, and set 
it away to cool. 

When the shells are baked and cool, 
mix the pine-apple with half a pint of 
cream, and fill i»e shells with it. Grate 
loaf-sugar over the top. 

These tarts are irery dne. 

If your pine-apple is not of the largest 
size, one will not be sufficient fM two 
tarts. 



PEACH TART. 

Take ripe juicy free-stone peaches, pare 
them, and cut them into small pieces; ,of 
coarse leave out the stones, half of which 
must be cracked, and the kernels blanched 
and mixed with the peaches. Mix in a 
sufficient quantity of sugar to make them 
very sweet, and set the peaches atway till 
the sugar draws out the juice. Then 
stew tlwm (without water) till quite soft. 
Take them out, mash them with the back 
of a spoon, and set them away to cool. 

Have ready some shells of fine puff-paste, 
baked of a light brown. When cool, put 
the peaches into the shells; having first 
mixed die stewed fruit with some cream. 
Grate white sugar over them. 

You may subsUtute for the kernels a 
handful of fresh peach'leaves, stewed with 
the fruit and then taken out. The kernels 
or leaves will greatly improve tlie flavor of 
the peaches. 



Peach-leaves may be kept fireA in 
for two or three days. 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 

Butter a deep dish, and spread a sheet 
of paste all ov«r the bottom, sides, aad 



away from your beef-eteak all the 
heme, &t, ^stle, and skin. Cut the lean 
in small thin pieces, about as large, \ 



ally, as the palm of your hand. Beat the 
meat well with the rolling-pia, to make it 
juicy and tender. If you put in the &t, it 
will make the gravy too greasy and strongp, 
as it cannot be skimmed. 

'Put a layer of meat ever the bottom-crost 
of your dish, and season it to your . taste, 
with pepper, salt, and, \{ you choose, a 
little nutmeg. A small quantity of mush- 
room ketchup is an improvement; so also, 
is a little minced onion. 

Have ready some cold boiled potatoes 
sliced thin. Spread over the meat a layer 
of potatoes, and a small piece of butter; 
then another layer of meat, seasoned, and 
then a Is^er of potatoes, and so on till the 
dish is full and heaped up in the middle, 
having a layer of meat on the top. Pour 
in a Uttle water. 

Cover the pie with a sheet of paste, and 
trim the edges. Notch it haodsomely with 
a knife; and, if you choose, make a tulip 
of paste, and stick it in the middle of the 
lid, and lay leaves of paste round iL 

Fresh oysters will greatly improve a 
beef-steak pie. So also will mushrooms. 
Any meat pie may be made in a similar 



PUDDINGS. 



PLUM PUDDING. 
One pound of raisins, stoned and cut in 



One pound of currants, picked, washed and 

dried. 
One pound of beef suet chopped fine. 
One pound of grated stitle bread, or, half a 

pound of flour and half a pound of bread. 
Eight eggs. 
One pound of sugar. 
A glass of brandy. 
A pint of milk. 
A glass of wine. 



ae* 



Two nutmegs, grated. 

A table-spoonful of mixed- cinnamon and 

mace. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 

You must prepare all your ingredients 
the day before (except beating & ^Sp*) 
that in the morning you may Inive nothinff 
to do but to mix them, as the pudding win 
require six hours to boil. 

Beat the eg^ very light, then put to then 
half the milk and beat both together. Stiv 
in gradually the flour and grated bread. 
Next add the sugar by degrees. ThM the 



8 



PUDDINGS. 



■oec an<f fruit alternately. The frait must 
be well sprinkled with flour, lest it sink to 
the bottom. Stir very hard. Then add 
the spice and liquor, and lastly the retnain- 
do" of the milk. Stir the whole mixture 
Tery well together. If it is not thick 
enough, audd a little more grated bread or 
flour. If there is too much bread or flour, 
the pudding will be bard and heavy. 

Dip your pudding-cloth, in boiling water, 
■hake it out and sprinkle it slightly with 
flour. Lay it in a pan and pour the mix- 
ture into the cloth. Tie it up carefully, 
allowing room for tlie pudding to swell. 

Boil it six hours, and turn it cai-efuUy 
oot of the cloth. 

Before you send it to table, have ready 
■cine blanclied sweet almonds cut in slips, 
or some slips of citron, or both. Stick 
them all over the outside of the pudding. 

Eat it with wine, or with a sauce made 
of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 

The pudding will be improved if you add 
to the other ingredients, the grated rind of 
a large lemon or orange. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

One small lemon, with a smooth thin rind. 
Three eggs. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A quarter pound of fresh butter — washed. 
A table-spoonful of white wine and brandy, 

mixed. 
A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

Five ounces of sifted flour^ and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter for tlie paste. 

Grate the yellow part of the rind of a 
small fresh lemon. Then cut the lemon in 
half, and squeeze the juice into the plate 
that contains the grated rind, carefully tak- 
ing out all the seeds. Mix the juice and 
rind together. 

Put a quarter of a pound of powdered 
white sugar into a deep earthen pan, and 
cut up in it a quarter of a pound of the 
best fresh butter. If the weather is verj' 
cold, set the pan near the fire, foi* a few 
minutes, to soften the butter, but do not 
allow it to melt or it will be heavy. Slir 
the butter and sugar together, with a stick 
or wooden spoon, till it is perfectly light 
and of the consistence of cream. 

Put the ^gs in a shallow broad pan, and 
beat them with an egg-beater or rods, lill 
they are quite smooth, and as thick as a 
boiled custard. Then stir the eggs, grad- 
ually, into the pan of butter and sugar. 
Add tlie liquor and rose-water by degrees, 
and then stir in, gradually, the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon. Stir the whole 
very hard, after all the ingredients are in. 



Have ready a puiT-paste made of (ivfl 
ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter of a 
pound of fresh Ijutter. The paste must be 
made with as little water as possible. Roll 
it out in a circular sheet, thin in the centre, 
and tliicker towards the edges, and just 
large enough to cover tlie bottom, sides, 
and edges of a soup-plate. Butter tlie 
soup-plate very well, and lay the paste in 
it, making it neat and even round the bro?id 
edge of the plate. With a sharp knife, 
trim off the superfluous dough, and notch 
the edges. Put in the mixture with a 
spoon, and bake the. pudding about half an 
hour, in a moderate oven. It should be 
baked of a very light brown. If the oven 
is too hot, the paste will not have time to 
rise well. If too cold, it will be clainmy. 
When the pudding is cool, grate loaf sugar 
over it. ' 

Before using lemons for any purpose, 
always roll them awhile with your hand on 
a table. This will cause them to yield a 
larger quantity of juice. 



ALMOND PUDDING, 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, which will 

be reduced to a quarter of a pound, when 

shelled and blanched. 
An ounce of blanched bitter almonds or 

peach-kernels. 
The whites only, of six eggs. 
A quarter of a pound of butter. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A table-spoonful of mixed brandy, wioe, 

and rose-water. 

Shell half a pound of sweet almonds, 
and pour scalding water over them, which 
will make the skins peal off. As they get 
cuol, pour more boiling water, till the al- 
monds are all blanched. Blanch also the 
bitter almonds. As you blanch the almonds, 
throw them into a bowl of cold water. 
Then take them out, one by one, wipe them 
dry in a clean towel, and lay them on a 
plate. Pound them one at a time to a fine 
paste, in a marble mortar, adding, as yon 
pound them, a few drops of rose-water to 
prevent their oiling. Pound the bitter and 
sweet almonds alternately, that they may 
be well mixed. Tliey must be made per- 
fectly fine and smooth, and are the better 
for being prepared the day before they are 
wanted for the pudding. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add to it, gradually, the liquor. 

Beat the whites of six eggs till they stand 
alone. Stir the abnonds and white of eg^ 
alternately, into the butter and sugar; and 
then stir the whole well together. 

Have ready a puff-paste sufficient for a 
Boup-plate. Butter the plate, lay on the 



PUDDINGfl. 

Then put in the 



p«0te,triiii and notch it. 
mixture. 

Bake it about half an hour in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Grate loafwnigar over it. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

One large orange,, of a deep color, and 

smooth thin rind. 
One lime. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A quarter of a pound of 'fresh butter. 
T^ree eg^. 

A table-spoonful of mixed wine and brandy, 
A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

Grate the yellow rind of the orange and 
lime, and squeeze the juice into a saucer or 
«oup-plate, taking out all the seeds. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible, and 
then stir them by degrees into the pan of 
butter and sugar. Add, gradually, the li- 
quor and rose-water, and then by decrees, 
• <be orange and lime. Stir all w^ to- 
gether. 

Have ready a sheet of puff-paste made 
of five ounces of sifted 6our, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter. Lay the paste 
m a buttered soup-plate. Trim and notch 
the edges, and then put in the mixture. 
Bake it a'bont half an hour, in a moderate 
oven. Grate loaf-sugar over it, bdbre you 
flend it to table. 



COCOA-NUT PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, grated. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
Three ounces and a half of fresh butter. 
The whites only of six eggs. 
A table-spoonful of wine and brandy mixed. 
Half a tea-spoonful <^ rose-water. 

Break up a cocoa-nut, and take the thin 
brown skin carefully off, with a knife. 
Wash all the pieces in cold water, and 
then wipe them dry, with a clean towel. 
Weigh a quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, 
and grate it very fine, into a soup-plate. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add the liquor and rose-water gradually to 
them. 

Beat the whites only, of six eggs, till 
they stand alone on the rods ; and then stir 
the beaten white of eg^, gradually, into 
the butter and sugar. Afterwards, sprinkle 
in, by degrees, the grated cocoa-nut, stirring 
hard all the time. Then stir all very weU 
at the last. 

Have ready a puff-paste, sufficient to 



cover the bottom, sides, and edges of a 
soup-plate. Put in the mixture, and baka 
it in a moderate oven, about half an 
hour. 

Grate loaf-sugar over it, when oooL 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

A^^uarter of a pound of boiled sweet potato. 
Three eggs, 

A quarter pound c^ powdered vrhito sugar 
A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 
A glass of mixed wine and brandy. 
A half-glass of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of mixed spioe, nutmeg, 
mace and cinnamon. 

Pound thenpice, allowing a smaller pro- 
portion of mace than of nutmeg and cin- 
namon. 

Boil and peal some sweet potatoes, and 
when they are cold, weigh a quarter of a 
pound. Mash the sweet potato very 
smooth, and rub it through a sieve. Stir 
the sugar and butter to a cream. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir than 
iuto the butter and susar, alternately with 
the sweet potato. Add by degrees the li- 
quor, rose-water and spice^ Stir all very 
hard together. 

Spread puff-paste on a soup^late. Put 
in the mixture, and bake it about half an 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Grate sugar over it. 



PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Half a pound of stewed pumpkin. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or a 

pint of cream. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar 
Half a glass of wine and brandy mixed. 
Half a glass of rose-water. 
A tea-spooafiil of mixed spice, nutmeg, 

mace and cinnamon. 

Stew some pumpkin with as little water 
as possible. Drain it in a cullender, and 
press it till dry. When cold, weigh half a 
pound, and pass it through a sieve. Pre- 
pare the spice. Stir together the sugar, 
and butter, or cream, till they are perfectly 
light. Add to them, gradually, the spioe 
and liquor. 

Beat three eggs very light, and stir them 
into the butter and sugar alternately with 
the pumpkin. 

Cover a soup-plate with puff-paste, and 
put in the mixture. Bake it in a moder« 
ate oven about half an hour. 

Grate sugar over it, when cool. 



PUDIHNGB. 



Inptedl of (he bolfier, m amy boil a pint 
of unRc or creon, and when cold, eCir mto 
il in tarn the eogar, eggSi and pmnpiLin. 



OOOSEBERBY PUDDING. 

A piatof ftewedgeoaeberriei, wkhaS Aeir 

juioe. 
A quarter of a fioiiad lai fmwdered eagar. 
Two ounces of fresU butter. 
Two ouBces of grated bread. 
Three eggs. 

Stew the goosebeiriee till qaite soft. 
Yfkea they are cokU manh them £ne with 
the back of a spoon, and atir into ihem two 
ounces of sugar.' Take two ounces more 
of sugar, and stir it to a cream with two 
ounces of butter. 

Grate very fine, as much stale bread as 
will weigh two ounces. 

Beat Uiree eggs, and stir them into the 
batter and sugar, in turn with tlie goose- 
berries and bread. 

La^r puffipuHe in a soup-plate. Put in 
the mixture, and bake it half an hour. 

Do not grate sugar over it. 



BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

A pint of stewed apples. 

Half a pint of cream, or two ounces of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

A table-Bpoonfiil of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel. 

Stew your apple in as little water as.poo- 
Bible, and not long enough for the pieces to 
break and lose their shape. Put them in 
a cullender to drain, and mash them with 
the back of a spoon. If stewed too long, 
and in too much water, they will lose their 
flavor. When cold, mix with tbem the 
nutm^, rose-water, and lemon-peel, and 
two ounces of sugar. Stir tlie other two 
ounces of sugar, with the butter or cream, 
and then mix il gradually with the apple. 

Bake it in puff-paste, in a soup-dish, 
about half an hour in a fnoderate oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

Six eggs. 

One pound of sifted flour. 

One quart of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Stir the 6our, gradually, into the milk, 
carefully dissolving all the lumps. Beat 



the egg« very l^t, and add tbem hf dpi 
grees to the milk and flour. Pot m tb 
sah, aad stir the whde well together. 

Take a ver^- thick puddin|[-cloth. Dip 
it in boiling water, and floor it. Poariolo 
it the mixture and tie it up, leaving rooB 
for it to sweU. Boil k hard, one hour, and 
keep it in the pot, till it is time to send it 
to table. Serve it up withv ' 



A square <Mk, wliieh wekcn tied up vil 
make the pudding of a roiiad ibrm, is bst- 
ter than a bag. 

Apple Batter Podding is made fay psar- 
ing the batter «ver a dith of pippins, psred, 
cored, and sweetened, either whole or est 
in pieces. Bake it, awl eat it widi hntler 
and sugar. 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

A pound of beePsuet» ebopped veiy fiae. 

A pi<it of molasees. 

A piat of rich milk. 

Four eggs. 

A large tea-spooaful of powdered 

and cinnamon. 
A little grated or chipped lemon-peel. 
Indian meal sufficient to malte a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and mola«ses, and stjr 
them -together. Beat the eggs, aad itir 
tliem gradually into the milk and mehweB, 
iu turn with the suet and Indian mesL 
Add tlie spice and lemon-peel, and stir all 
very hard together Take care not to pnt 
too much Indian meal, or the pudding will 
be heavy and solid. 

Dip Uie cioth in boiling water. Shi^e 
it out, and flour it slightly. Pour the ma- 
ture into it, and tie it up, leaving room for 
the pudding to awell. Boil it three howi. 
Serve it up hot, and eat it with sauce mads 
of drawn butter, wine and nudneg. 

When cold, it is very good cut in ilieei 
and firied. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

A quarter pound of grated stale bread. 
A quart of milk, boiled with two or thne 

sticks of cinnamon, slightly broken 
Eight eggs. 

A quaiter of a pound of sugar. 
A little grated lemon-peel. 
Two ounces of butter. 

Boil the milk with the eirniamoa, stiaja 
it, and set it away till quite cokU Mis 
the butter and sugar. 

Grate as much crumb of stale-bread ti 
will weigh a quarter of a pound. Beit 



PUDDINGS. 



11 



the egfgs, and when the milk is cold, stir 
them into it, in turn with the bread and 
sugar. Add the lemon-peel, and if yon 
choose a tabte-spoonful of rose-water. 

Bake it in a buttered dish, and grate 
nutraeg over it when done. Do not send 
it to table hot. Baked puddings should 
never be eaten till they have become cold, 
or at least cool. 



RICE PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of rice. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter (^ a pound of sugar. 

A pint and a Jalf of milk, or cream and 
milk. 

Six eggs. 

A lea-spoonful of mixed spice, mace, nut- 
meg and cinnamon. 

A half wine^gkiss of rose-watet. 

Wash the rice. Boil it till very soft. 
Qrain it, and set it away to get cold. Put 
the butter and sugar together in a pan, and 
stir them till very light. Add to them the 
apice and rose-water. Beat the e^ very 
light, and slir them, gradually, into the 
milk. Then stir the eggs and milk into 
the butter and sugar, alternately with the 
rice. 

Bake it and grate nutmeg over the top. 

Ctnrants or raisins, floured, and stirred 
in at the last, will gi-eally improve it. 

It should be eaten cold, or quite cool. 



GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Take five table-spoonfuls of ground rice 
and boil it in u quart of new milk, with a 
grated nutmeg or a lea-spoonful of pow- 
dereii ciiinainon, stirring it all the time. 
When it lias boiled, pour it into a pan and 
stir in a quarter uf a pound of butter, and 
a quarier of a pound of powdered sugar., a 
nutmeg and half a pint of cream. Bet it 
away tu get culd. Then beat eight egg^, 
omitting ihe whiles of four. Have ready 
a half pound of dried currants well cleaned, 
and sprinkled with flour; stir them into 
tlie mixture alternately wiihtlie beaten egg. 
Add half a glass of rose-water, or iialf a 
glass of mixed wine and brandy. Butter 
a deep dish, put in the mixture, and bake 
it of a pale brown. Or you may bake it 
in saucers. 



CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cut up a pair of young chickens, and 
ff!H^!t M^em with pepper and salt and a 



little mace and nutmeg. Pot them into a 
pot with two large spoonfuls of butter, and 
water enough to cover them. Stew tliem 
gently; and when about half cooked, take 
them out and set them away to cool. Pour 
off the gravy, and reserve it to be served 
up separately. 

In the meantime, make a batter as if 
for a pudding, of a pound of sifted flour 
stirred gradually into a quart of milk, six 
^g^ wdl beaten and added by degrees to 
the mixture, and a very little salt. Put a 
layer of chicken in tfaie bottom of a deep 
dish, and pour over it some of the Ijatter ; 
then another layer of chicken, and then 
some more batter ; and so on till the dish 
is full, having a cover of batter at the top. 
Bake it till it is brown. Then break an 
egg into the gravv whic& you have set 
away, give it a boil, and send it to uble in 
a sauce-boat to eat with the pudding. 



BOSTON PUDDING. 

Make a ffood common paste with a pound 
and a hair of flour, and three quarters of 
a pound of butter.* When you roll it out 
the last time, cut off the edges, till you get 
the sheet of paste of an even square shape. 

Have ready some frutt sweetened to your 
taste. If cranberries, gooseberries, dried 
peaches, or damsons, they should be stew- 
ed, and made verv sweet. If apples, they 
should be stewed in a very little water, 
drained, and seasoned with nutmeg, rose- 
water and lemon. If currants, raspberries, 
or blackberries, they should be mashed with 
sugar, and put into the pudding raw. 

Spread tne fruit very thick, all over the 
sheet of paste, (which most not be rolled 
out too thin.) When it is covered all over 
with the fruit, roll it up, and close the 
dough at both ends, and down tlie last side. 
Tie the pudding in a cloth and boil it. 

Eat it with sugar. It must not be taken 
out of the pot uU just before it is brought 
to table^ 



FRITTERS. 

Seven egp. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Sufficient flour to make a thick batter. 

Beat the eggs well and stir them gradu- 
ally into the milk. Add the salt, and stir 



* Or three quarters of a pound of beef-soet, 
chopped very fine. Mix the suet at once with 
the fluur, linead it with cold water into a stiff 
dougb, and then roll it out into a large thiQ 
sheet. Fold it us and r^' It agsfOL 



CUSTARDS, CVRM, AND CREAMS. 



in floor eaoa|^ to unke a tbick batter. 
Tbey oniat set a* JNMir to rise. 
Fry Abes ia lard, and serve Uiem up hot. 
/'Eat them with wiae and sugar. 

Tiiey are nnpreved by stirriag io a ta- 
ble-spoonful of yeast. 

Tbese are exceUent wilb 4he addition of 
eoM stewed apple, stirred into tbe mixture, 
jo wbicb case use less flour. 

Oyater Fritters are made by puUing a 
br|>e oyster in the middle of each fritter, 
iphile frying. They are very floe. 



A CHEES£>CAK£. 

Four eggs. 

Half apintof aulk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

Two ounces of grated bread. 

A table-spoonful of mixed brandy and wine. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, cinnamon, and 

autroeg, mixed. 
A quarter of a pound of currants. 

Pick tbe currants very clean. Wash 
them through a colander, wipe them in a 
towel, and then dry them on a dish before 
the Are. 

Whoi dry take out a few to scsitlcr over 
|be top of the cheeeercake, Uy tliem aside, 



and sprinkle the reniaiatfair of the omutB 
with the flour. 

Btir the butter and sugar to a cream. 
Grate the bread, and prepare the spies. 
Beat tlie «gg8 very light. 

Boil tbe milk . W hen it ceoies to a boil, 
add to it half the beaten e^, and boil boUi 
togetlier till it becomes a curd, stirring it 
frequently with a knife. Th^ throw the 
grated bread on the curd, and stir all toge- 
ther. Then take tlie milk, egg, and brnd 
off the flra, and stir it, gradimil^, into the 
butter and sugar. M«xt, stur m the re- 
maining half of the eg^. 

Add, by degrees, the liquor and epioe. 

Lastly, stir in, gradually, the currants. 

Have ready a pufl'^paste, which gImwM 
be made before you prepare the cheese-eake, 
as the mixture will become heavy by stand- 
ing. Before you put it into the oven, scat- 
ter tbe remainder of tbe cumuits over the 
top. 

Bake it half an hour in rather a ^aiek 
oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 

You may bake it either in a aoup-platc» 
or in two small tin patty-pans, which, ier 
cheese-cakes, should be of a square shape. 
If baked in square patty-pans leave at eadi 
side a flap of paste in the shape of a hatf* 
circle. Cut long slits in these flaps and 
turn them over, so tliat tbey will rest m 
tbe top of the mixture. 

You can, if you choose, add to the cor- 
rants a few raisins stoned, and cot in ktiL 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



FINE CUSTARDS. 

A quart of milk or cream. 
The yolks only, of sixteen e^gs. 
Six ounces of powdered white sugar. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in small 

pieces. 
A large handful of peach-leaves, or half an 

ounce of peach-kernels or bitter almonds, 

broken in pieces. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water, 
A nutm^. 



Boil in the milk the cinnamon and the 
peach<4eave8, or peach-kemeb. When it 
Kas boiled, set it away to get cold. As 
soon as it is cold, strain it through a sieve, 
to clear it from the cinnamon, peach-leaves, 



&c. and stir into it, gradually, the sogar, 
spire, and rose-water. 

Beat tbe yolks of sixteen eggs very li|[ht, 
and stir them by degrees into the milk, 
which must be quite cold or tbe eggs will 
make it curdle. Put the custards intocups, 
and set tliem in a baking-pan, half filled 
with water. When baked, grate some nil- 
meg over each, and ice them. Make the 
icing of the whites of eight eggs, a brge 
tea-spoonful of powdered loaf-«ugar, aad 
six drops of essence of lemon, beaten att 
together till it stands alone. Pile op sons 
of the icinff on the top of each eortird, 
heaping it nigh. Put a spot of red monpa* 
reils on the middle of the pile of iciag. 
jg — . W 

If the weather be damp, or the ^g^ Mt 
new-laid, more than eight whites will ht 
required for tJhe icisg. 



CUSTARDS) CURI>S» AND CREAMSt 



ts 



PLAIN CUSTARDfi. 

A quart of rich milk. 

Eight eggs. 

A quarter of a pMiid of powdered ftsgar. 

A btaidAri of peadi4Nive9, or half an obbco 

of peacb'kenieb, brokoa in piooeo. 
JL VBtineg. 

Boil the peach-leares or kernels in the 
milk, and set it away to oooK When €o4d, 
aCrain out the leaves or kemds, and stir in 
iktt sugar. Beat the eggs verv light, and 
stir them gradually into the milk, when it 
is quite cold. Bake it in cups, or in a 
km white dish. 

When cool, grate natmeg over the top. 



COLD CUSTARDS. 

A quart of new milk, and a half a pint of 

cream, mixed. 
A qearter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A large .glass of white wine, in which an 

inch of washed rennet has been soaked. 
A nutmeg. 

Mix toother the milk, cream, and sn- 
gar. Stir the wine into it, and poor the 
mixture into your costard-cups. Set them 
in a %varro place near the fire, till they be- 
oome a firm curd. Tlien set them on ioe, 
or in a very cold plaoe. Grate nutmeg over 
them. 



ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint of cream. 
One pint of rich milk. 
Half a pound of shelled sweet almonds. 
Two ounces of shelled bitter almonds. 
Four table-spoonfiils of rose-water. 
A quarter of a pound of white sugar. 
The yolks of eight eggs. 
A' little oil of lemon. 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to 
9 paste, mixing the rose-water gradually 
with them. Powder the sngar, and beat 
the yolk of egg till very light. Mix the 
eream and milk together, and stir into it 
gradually the sugar, the pounded almonds, 
and tlie batten yolk of egg. Hien stir the 
whole very hard. Put the mixture into a 
oktUet or sauce-pan, and set it in a heated 
stove, or on a charcoal furnace. Stir it 
' one way till it becomes thick, but take it 
ofif the fire before it has been Ions enough 
to curdle. Set it away to get cold. Take 
half the whiles of the eggs, and beat them 
to m stUF finoth, adding a little powdered 
•Qgar» and a few drops of oil of lemon 



(the latter in proportioii' to- iti • s tnngth^) 
Put the custard into a glass dish or'fowly 
and heap the frothed white of egg upon it. 
Vou may ornament the top with nonpareite 
or sugar-sand. 

Or you may put it in small cups, piling 
some froth on eaeh. 



RICE CUSTARDS. 

Half a pound of rioe. 
Hnlf u pound of raisins or corrants. 
Eight yolks of eggs or six whole eggs* 
Six ounces of powdered sagar^ 
A quart of rich milk. 
A handful of peach-loaves, or half an 
of peach-kernels, broken in pieces. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pi< 



Boil the rice with the raisins or corrants, 
which must first be (loured. Butter some 
cups or a mould, and when the rioe is quite 
soft, drain it, and put it into them. Set it 
away to get cold. 

Beat the eggs well. Boil the milk with 
the cinnamon and peacli-leaves, or kernels* 
As soon as it has come to a boil, take it 
off and strain it through a sieve. Then 
set it asain on the fire, stir into it alter- 
nately, the egg and sugar, taking it off fre- 
quently and stirring it hard, lest it become 
a curd. Take care not to boil it too long, 
or it will be lumpy and lose its flavor. 
When done, set it away to cool. Turn o«t 
the rice fi'om the caps or mould, into a 
deep dish. Pour some of the boiled cu»* 
tard over it, and send op the remainder ^ 
the costard in a sauce-boat. 

You may, if you choose, ornament the 
lumps of rice, (after the custard is poured 
round them) by making a stiff froth of 
white of eeg (beaten till it stands alone) 
and a few drops of essence of lemon, with 
a very little powdered loaf-sugar. Heap 
the frotli on the top of each lump of rice. 



CURDS AND WHEY. 

Take a small piece of rennet about two 
inches square. Wash it very clean in cold 
water, to get all the salt off, and wlym it 
dry. Put it in a tea-cup, and pour on it 
just enough of lukewarm water to cover it. 
Let it set all night, or for several hours, 
rhen take out the rennet, and stir the 
water in which it was soaked, into a quart 
of milk, which should be in a broad 
dish. 

Set the mik in a warm place, till it be- 
comes a firm cord. As soon as the curd 
is co m|» tete iy '«nde, set it in a cool plaoe 



It 



CUSTARDS, CUR0S, AND CREAMS. 



r OR ioe-(if in ■Dmmer) for two or three 
wan before you want to nee h» 
Eat it with wine, eugar, and nutmeg. 



The whejr, drained from the curd» is an 
Aoellent drink for invalids. 



A TRIFLE. 

A quart of cream. 

A quarter pound of loaf-eugar, powdered. 

Half a pint of white wine > ^- ^j 

Half a gill of brandy $ 

Eight maccaroons, or more if you choose. 

Four small sponge-cakes or Naples biscuit. 

Two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, 

pounded in a mortar. 
One ounce of blanched bitter akuonds or 

peach-kernels. 
The juice and grated peel of two lemons. 
A nulineg, grated. 
A glass of 'noyau. 
A pint of rich baked custard, made of the 

yolks of eggs. 



Pound the sweet and bitter almonds to a 
smootli paste, adding a little rose-water as 
you pound tliem. 

Grate the yellow peels of the lemons, 
and squeeze the juice into a saucer. 

Break the sponge cake and maccaroons 
into small' pieces, mix them with tlie al- 
monds, and lay them in the bottom of a 
large glass bowl. Grate a nutmeg oyer 
them, and tlie juice and peel of the lemons. 
Add the wine and brandy, and let the mix- 
ture remain untouched, till the cakes are 
dissolved in the liquor. Then stir it a 
little. 

Mix the cream and sugar with a glass 
of no^'au, and beat it with a whisk or rods, 
till it stands alone. 

As die froth rises, take it off with a 
spoon, and lay it on a sieve (with a large 
dish under it) to drain. The cream, that 
drains into lite dish, must be poured back 
into the pan with the rest, and beaten over 
again. When the cream is finished, set it 
in a cool place. 

When the custard is cold, pour it into 
the glass bowl upon the dissolved cakes, 
&c. and when the cream is ready, fill up 
the bowl with it, heaping it high in the 
middle. You may ornament it with non- 
pareils. 

If you choose, you can put in, between 
the custard and the frotlied cream, a layer 
of fruit jelly, or small fruit preserved. 



WHIPT CREAM. 

A quart of cream. 

Tlie whites of four eg^. 

Half a pint of white wine.^ 

A quarter pound of powdered loaf'Sugar. 

Ten drops of strong essence of lemon, or 

two lemons cut in thin slices, or the juios 

of a large lemour 

Mix together, in a broad pan, all the in- 
slices 



gredientsr unless you use slices of 1 
and then th^ must be laid at intervali 
among tlie froth, as you heap it in the 
bowl. 

With a whisk or rods, beat the cream 
to a strong froth. Have beside your pan 
a sieve (bottom upwards) with a large diflh 
under it. As the froth rises, take it li^t- 
ly off with a spoon, and lay it on the siefs 
to drain. When the top of the sieve ii 
full, transfer die froth to a large glass or 
china bowl. Continue to do this till the 
bowl is full. 

The cream which has dropped throiigh 
the sieve into the dish, must be poured into 
tlie pan, and beaten over again. When 
all the cream is converted into firoth, pile 
it up in the bowl, making it highest in tbs 
middle. 

If you choose, you may ornament it with 
red and green nonpareils. 

If you put it in glasses, lay a little jelly 
in the bottom of each glass, and pile the 
cream on it. 

Keep it in a cool place till you want to 



ICE CREAM. 

A quart of rich cream, boiled and nt 
away till cold. 

Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

The juice of two large lemons, or a piot 
of strawberries or raspberries; or an 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded in a mortar with rose-water. 

Put the cream into a broad pan. Then 
stir in the sugar by degrees, and when all 
is well mixed, strain it tlirougha sieve. 

Put it into a tin that has a close cover, 
and set it in a tub. Fill the tub with ice 
broken into very small pieces, and strew 
among the ice a large quantity of salt, tak- 
ing care that none of the salt gets into the 
cream. Scrape the cream down with a 
spoon as it freezes round tlie edges of the 
tin. While the cream is freezing, stir in 
gradually die lemon-juice, or the juice of a 
pint of mashed strawberries or rasp btf- 
ries. When it is all frozen, dip the tin in 
lukewarm water; take out the cream, and 



OAK£S, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



16 



ill yoor glasses; but not till a few minates 
before you want to use it, as it will very 
soon melt. 

You may heighten the color of the red 
fruit, by a little cochineal. 

If you wish to have it in moulds> put the 
cream into them as soon as it has froxen in 
the tin. Set the moulds in a tub of ice 
and salt. Just before you want to use the 
cream, take tlie moulds out of the tub, 
wipe or wash the salt carefully from the 
outside, dip the moulds in lukewarm water, 
and turn out the cream. 

You may flavor a quart of ice-cream 
with two ounces of sweet almonds and one 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
beaten in a mortar with a little rose-waier 
to a smooth paste. Stir in the almonds 
gradually while the cream is freezing. 



ANOTHER KIND OF ICE-CREAM. 

A pint and a half of rich cream. 

A quart and a half-pint of morning's milk. 

One pound of loaf-sugar. 

Two eggs. 

One taoie-spoonful of flour. 

Two lemons. 

Or half a Vanilla bean, split into small 

pieces. 
Or two ounces of sweet almonds and one 

ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 

split into pieces. 

Take half of the milk and put in the 
ingredient tliat is to flavor it, either the 
vanilla, the almonds, or the grated rind of 
the lemons. Boil it, stirring in gradually 
the sugar. 



I Having beaten the eggs well, add to t 

I two table<«poonfuls of cold milk, and pour 

I them into the boiling milk. Let them sim- 

' met* two or three minutes, stirring them all 

! the time. Then take the mixture off the 

fire and strain it through book-muslin into 

a pan. Add the cream and the remainder 

of the milk, and put the whole into the tin 

freezer, which must be set in a tub filled 

with ice, among which must be scattered a 

great deal of salt. 

Squeeze the juice from the two lemons 
I and stir it into the cream, by degrees, 
! while it is freezingv 

When it is all frozen, turn it out, first 
dipping the tin for a moment in warm water. 
If you wish to flavor it with strawberry 
or raspberry juice, that, like the lemon- 
juice, must be stirred gradually in while 
the cream is freezing. 

In places where cream is not abundant, 
this receipt (though inferior in richness) 
will be found more economical than the 
preceding one. It is, however, less easy 
and expeditious. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Six whites of eggs. 

Six large table-«poodfuIs of jelly. 

A pint of cream, sweetened with loaf-sugar . 

Put tlie jelly and white of egg into a 
pan, and b^t it together with a whisk, till 
it becomes a stifl' froth and stands alone. 

Have ready the cream, in a broad shal- 
low dish. Just before you send it to table, 
pile up the froth in the centre of the 
cream. 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



In making cakes, it is particularly necessary that the eggs should 
be well beaten. They are not sufficiently light till the surface 
looks smooth and level, and till they get so thick as to be of the 
consistence of boiled custard. 

White of egg should always be beaten till it become a heap of 
stiff froth, without any liquid at the bottom; and till it hangs from 
the rods or fork without dropping. 

Eggs become light soonest when new-laid, and when beaten 
near the fire, or in warm dry weather. 

Butter and sugar should be stirred till it looks like thick cream, 
and till it stands up in the pan. 

37 



U CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD 

It should be kept cool. If too warm, it will make the cake# 
heavy. 

Large cakes should be baked in tin or earthen pans, with straight 
•ides, that are as nearly perpendicular as possible. They cut into 
handsomer slices, and if they are to be iced, it will be found very 
inconvenient to put on the icing, if the cake slopes in towards 
the bottom. 

Before you ice a cake, dredge it all over with flour, and then 
wipe the flour off. This will enable you to spread on the icing 
more evenly. 

Before you clit an iced cake, cut the icing by itself with a small 
sharp penknife. The large knife with which you divide the cake, 
will crack and break the icing. 

Large Gingerbread, as it bums v^ry easily, may be baked in an 
earthen pan. So also may Black Cake or t^ound Cake. Tin 
pans or moulds, with a hollow tube in the middle, are best for 
cakes. 

If large cakes are baked in tin pans, the bottom and sides should 
be covered with sheets of paper, before the mixture i^ put in 
The paper must be well buttered. 

Sponge cakes, and Almond cakes should be baked in pans that 
are as thin as possible. 

If the cakes should get burnt, scrape them \^ith a knife or grat- 
er, as soon as they are cool. 

Always be careful to butter your pans well. Should the cakes 
stick, they cannot be got out without breaking. 

For queen-cakes, &c. the small tins of a round or oval shape 
are most convenient. Fill them but little more than half 

After the mixture is completed, set it in a cool place till all the 
cakes are baked. 

In rolling out cakes made of dough, use as little flour as possi- 
ble. When you lay them in the pans, do not place them too close 
together, lest they run into each other. 

When you are cutting them out, dip the cutter frequently io 
flour, to prevent its sticking. 

If cakes are not properly baked they will have heavy streaks 
through them, and the bottoms will be uneven and misshapen. 

It is always safest to have large cakes done in a baker's oven. 



QUEEN CAKE. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

One pound of fresh hutter — washed. 

Fourteen ounces of sifted flour. 

Ten eggs. 

One wine-glass of wine and brandy, mixed 



Pound the spice to a fine powder, in a 
marble mortar, and sift it well. 

Put the suear into a deep earthen fM, 
and cut the butter into it. Stir them to- 
gether, till very light. 

Beat tlie egg6 in a broad shallow pui, 
till they are perfectly smooth and thick. 



Half a glass of rose-water, or twelve drops I Stir into the butter and sugar a little of 
of essence of lemon. | the beaten egg, and then a little flour, and 

Om tea-spoonful of Biace and cinnamon, so on alternately, a little egg and a little 
ttiixed'/ flour, till the whole is in ; continaiiif all 

One nutmeg, beaten or grated. | the time to beat, the eggs, and stirriflg ^ 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



17 



mixture very hard. Add by degrees, the 
spice, and then the liciuor> a little at a 
time. Finally, put in the rose-water, or 
essence of lemon. Stir the whole very hard 
at the last* 

Take about two dozen little tins, or 
more, if you have room for them in the 
oven. Rub them very well with fresh but- 
ter. With a spoon, put some of the mix- 
ture in each tin, but do not fill them to the 
top as the cakes will rise high in baking. 
Bake them in a quick oven, about a quar- 
ter of an honr. Whei) they are done, lliey 
will shrink a little from the side's of the tins. 

Before you fill tlte tins again, scrape 
them well with a knife, and wash or wipe 
them clean. 

If the cakes are scorched by too hot a 
fire, do not scrape off the burnt parts till 
they have grown cold. 

Make an icing with the whites of three 
eggs, beaten till it stands alone, and twen- 
ty-four tea-spoonfuls of the best loaf-sugar, 
powdered, and beaten gradu^^ into the 
white of egg. Flavor it with a tea-spoon- 
ful of rose-water or eight drops of essence 
of lemon, stirred in at tlie last. Spread 
it evenly with a broad knife, over the top 
of each queen -cake^ ornamenting them," 
(while the icing is quite wet) with red 
and green nonpareils, or fiiii sugar-sand, 
dropped on, carefully, wilii ilie thumb and 
finger. 

When the cakes are iced, set them in a 
warm place to dry ; but not too near the 
fire, as that will cause the icing to crack. 

You may color icing of a fine pink, by 
mixing with it a few drops of liquid cochi- 
neal, which is prepared by boiling very 
slowly in an earthen or china vessel twenty 
grains of cochineal powder, twenty grains 
of cream of tartar, and twenty grains of 
powdered alutn, all dissolved in a gill of 
soft water, and boiled till reduced to one 
half. Strain it and cork it up in a small 
phial. Pink icing should be ornamented 
with white nonpareils. 

In buying essence or oil of lemon, en- 
deavor to get that which is white, it being 
much the strongest and best. When it 
looks greenish, it is genegpj^ very weak, 
■o that when used, a double or treble quan- 
tity is necessary. 



ALMOND CAKE. 

Two ounces of blanched bitter almonds, 

pounded very fine. 
Seven ounces of flom*, sifted and dried. 
Ten eggs. 

One pound loaf-sugar, powdered and sifted. 
Two table-spoonfuls of rose-water. 

Take two ounces of shelled hitter al- 
monds, or peach-kernels, Scald them in 



hot water, and as you peel them, throw 
them into a bowl of cold water, then wipe 
thefli dry, and pound them one by one in a 
mortar, till they are quite fine and smooth. 

Break ten eg^i putting tlie yolks in one 
pan and the whites in another. Beat them 
separately as light as possible, the whites 
first, and then the yolks. 

Add the sugar, gradually, to the yolk«, 
beating it in very hard. Then by d^rees, 
beat in the almonds, and then add the rose* 
water. 

Stir half the whites of the eggs into the 
yolks and sugar. Divide the fiour into 
two equal parts, and stir in one half, slowly 
and lightly, till it bubbles on the top. 
Tlien Uie other half of the white of egg, 
and then tiie remainder of the fiour very 
lightly. 

Butter a large square tin pan, or one 
made of paste-board which will be better. 
Put in the mixture, and set immediately in 
a quick oven, which must be rather hottw 
at the bottom than at the top. Bake it 
according to the thickness. If you allow 
the oven to get slack, the cake will be 
spoiled. 

Make an icing with the whites of three 
eggs, twenty-four tea-spoonfuls of loaf-su- 
gar, and eiglit drops of essence of lemon. 

When the cake is cool, mark it in small 
squares with a knife. Cover it wiili icing, 
and ornament it while wet, with nonpareils 
dropped on in borders, round each square 
of the cake. When the icing is dry, cut 
the cake in squares, cutting tiirough the 
icing very carefiilly with a penknife. Or 
you may cut it in squares first, and then 
ice and ornament each square separately. * 

Eat it while fresh. 



POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, sifted. 

One pound of white pugar, powdered and 
sifted. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Ten egjjs. 

Half a glass of wine \ 

Half a glass of brandy > mixed. 

Half a glass of rose-water ^ 

T.welve drops of essence of lemon. 

A table-spoonful of mixed mace and cin- 
namon. 

A nutmeg, powdered. 

Pound the spice and sift it. There 
should be twice as much cinnamon as mace. 
Mix the cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg to- 
gether. 

Sift the fiour in a broad pan, or wooHen ' 
bowl. Sift the powdered gugar iuto a 
large deep pan, and cut the butter into it» 
in small pieces. If thip-ve»tb«^r is v^ry 



18 



CAKES, NUT&, AND GINGERBRCAa 



oold, and the batter hard, set the pan near 
the fire for a few minutes ; but if the butter 
is too wami, the cake will be heavy. I|tir 
the batter and sugar together, with a wood- 
en stick, till they are very light, and white, 
and look like cream. 

Beat the eggs in a broad shallow pan 
with a wooden egg-beater or whisk. They 
must be beaten till they are thick and 
smooth, and of the consistence of boiled 
custard. 

Pour the liquor and rose-water, gradnal- 
Iv, into the butter and sugar, stirring all 
the time. Add, by degrees, the essence 
of leoKm and spice. 

Stir the egg and flour alternately into the 
butter and sugar, a handful of tiour, and 
about two spoonfuls of the egg (which you 
must continue to beat all tiie time,) and 
when all is in, stir the whole mixture very 
hard, for near ten minutes. * • 

Butter a large tin pan, or a cake mould 
with an open tube rising from the middle. 
Put tlie mixture into it as evenly as possi- 
ble. Bake it in a moderate oven, for two, 
or three, or four hours, in proportion to its 
thickness, and to the heat of the fire. 

When you think it is nearly done, thrust 
a twig or wooden skewer into it, down to 
tlie TOttom. If the stick cumes out clean 
and drv, the cake is almost baked. When 
quite (Tone, it will shrink from the sides of 
the pan, and cease making a noii<e. Then 
withdraw the coals (if baked in a dutch 
oven) tiike off the lid, and let the cuke 
remain in the oven to cuol gradually. 

You may ice it either warm or cold. 
Before yuu put the icing on a laige cuke, 
iredge the cuke all over with Hour, and 
then wipe the tlour off] this will make the 
icing stick on better — If you liave siitliclent 
time, the appearance of Ute cake \^ ill be 
much improved by icing it twice. ' Ful on 
tlie first icing soon after the cake is taken 
out of the oven, and the second the next 
day when the first la perfectly dry. Wliiie 
the last icing is wet, ornaixicut it with co- 
lored sugar-sand ur uoapareiU. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs. 

Ten ounces silled flour, dried near the ^^. 
A pound of loaf sugar, powdered and siiBd* 
Twelve drojis of essence of lemon. 
A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spooiiful of powdeii^ cinnamon and 
mace, mixed. 



Beat the eggs as light as possible, 
for sponge or almond cakes require more 
beating than for any otlier purpose. Bml 
the sugar, by degrees, into the eggs, ^at 
very hard, and continue to beat eoiUe time 
after the sugar ||^ll in. 



I9o sort of sugar but loaf, will make lig&l 
spooge-cake. Stir in, gradually, the spice 
ai>d essence of lemon. Then, by degrees, 
put 10 the flour, a little at a time, stirring 
round tlie mixture very sk>wly with a knife. 
If the flour is stirred in too hard, the cake 
will be tough. It must be done lightly and 
gently, so that the top of tlie mixture will 
be covered with bubbles. As soon as the 
flour is till in, begin to bake it, as letling 
,will injure it. 

Put it in small tins, well buttered, or in 
one large tin piln. The thinner the pans, 
the better for sponge-cake. Fiil the small 
tins about half full. Grate joaf-sugar over 
tl^e top of each, before you set them in the 
oven. 

Sponge-cake requires a very quick oven, 
particubrty at the bottom. It should be 
baked as fast as possible, or it will be tough 
and heavy, however light it may have been 
before it went into the oven. It is of all 
cakes the most liable to be spoiled in bak^- 
ing. Whi|||taken out of the tins, the cakes 
should be spread on a sieve to cool. If 
baked in one lai^ cake, it should be iced. 

A large cake of twelve eggs, should be 
baked at least an hour in a quick oven. 

For small cakes, ^n minutes is generally 
sufficient. If diey get very much out of 
shape in br.kiug, it is a sign that the oven 
is too slow. 

Some think that sponge-cakes and a]> 
niond cakes are lights, when the yolks aud 
whites of the ^gs are beaten in separate 
|)ans, and mixed gently together before tlie 
sugar is beaten into iliem. 

If done separately from (be yolks, the 
whites should be beaten till ihey stand alone. 

Sponge-cake is best the day it is baked. 



BLACK CAKE, OR PLUM CAKE, 

One pound of flour sifted. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

Twelve eggs. 

Two pounas«||^the best raisins. 

1' wo pounds OT currants. 

Tw o tubte-spoonfuls of mixed spice, maoe 

and cinnamon. 
Two nutmegs ijowdered. 
A large glass <if wine \ 
A large glass of brandy > mixed together. 
Half a glass of rose-water ^ 
A pouud of citron. 



Pick the currants very clean, and 
them, draining tliem dirongh a colander. 
Wipe them in a towel. Spread them ^ 
on a large dish, and set them near the fire^ 
or in tlie hot sun to dry, placing the didi 
ki a slanting position. Having $^ffwd 



:oianaer. < 

hem out J 

the fire, ] 
tbedisii 

)iied Ow J 



CAKCS^ NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



19 



mlsins, cut them in half, and when all are 
done, sprinkle them well with sifted flour, 
to prevent their sinking to the bottom of 
the cake. When the currants are dry, 
sprinkle them also with flour. 

Pound the spice, allowing twice as much 
cinnamon as maoe. Sift it, and mix the 
mace, nntmeg, and cinnamon together. 
Mix alio the liqaor and rose-water in a 
tumble/ or cup. Cut the citron in slips. 
Sifl the flour into a broad dish. SiTl tlie 
Bugar into a deep earthen pan, and cut the 
butter into it. Warm it near the fire, if 
the weather is too cold for it to mix 
easily* Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream. 

Beat the egss as light as possible. Stir 
them into the Initter and sugar, alternately 
with the flour. Stir very hard. Add 
gradually the spice and liquor. Stir the 
raisins and curilnts alternately into the 
mixture, taking care that they are well 
floured. Stir Uie whole as hard as' possi- 
ble^ for ten minutes after the ingredients 
are in. 

Cover the bottom and sides of a large 
tih or earthen pan, with sheets of white 
paper well buttered, and put into it some 
of the mixture. Then spread on it some 
of tlie citron, which must not be cut* too 
small. Next put a layer of the mixture, 
and then a layer of citron, and so on till 
it is all in, having a Ityer of the mixture 
at the top. 

This cake is always best baked in a 
baker's oven, and will require four or five 
hours, in proportion to its thickness. 

After this cake is done, it will be the 
better for withdrawing the fire (if baked 
in an iron ov«n) And letting it stay in the 
oven all night, or till it gels quite cold. 

Ice it, next day. 



FRENCH ALMOND CAKE. 

Six ounces of shelled sweet almonds. 
Three ounces of shelled bitter almonds, or 

peach-kernels. 
Three ounces sifted flour, dried near the fire. 
Fourteen eggs. 

One pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 
Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 

Blanch the almonds, by scald in? them in 
hot water. Put them in a bowl of cold 
water, and wipe them dry, wlien you take 
them out. Pound them, one at a time, in 
a mortar, till they are perfectly smooth. 
Mix. the sweet and bitter almonds together. 
Prepare them, if possible, the d»y before 
the cake is made. While pouncfing the 
almonds, pour in occasionally a little rose- 
water. It makes them much lighter. 

27 



Put the whites* ^d yolks '^£ the eggi^ 
into separate 'pans. Beat the whites till 
they stand alone, and then the yolks till 
they are very thick. 

Put the sugar, gradually, to the yolks, 
beating it in very hard. Add, by degrera, 
the almonds, still beating very hard. jThen 
put in the essence of lemon. Next*, beat 
m, gradually, the whites of the eggs, con- 
tinume to beat for some time after they 
are all in. Lastly, stir in the flour, aa 
slowly and lightly, as possible. 

Butt^ a large tin mould or pan. Put 
tlie cake in and bake it in a very quick 
oven, an hour or more according to its 
thickness. 

The oven must on no account be hotter 
at the top, than at the bottom. 

When done, set it on a sieve to cool. 

Ice it, and ornament it with nonpareils. 

These almond cakes are generally baked 
in a turban-shaped mould, and the nonpa- 
reils put on, in spots or sprigs. 
. This cake eats best the day it is baked. 

A pound of almonds in the sliells (if the 
shells are soft and thin,) will generally 
yield half a pound when shelled. Hard, 
tliick-shelled almonds, seldom yield much 
more tlian a quai'ter of a pound, and should 
therefore never be bought for cakes or pud- 
dings. 

Bitter almonds and peach-kernets can 
always be purchased with the shells off. 

Families should always save their peach- 
kernels, as they can be used in cakes, pud- 
dings and custards. 



MACAROONS. 

Half a pound of shelled sweet almonds. 

A quarter pound of shelled bitter almonds 

The whites of three eggs. 

Twenty-four large tea-spoonfuls of powder- 
ed loaf-sugar. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

A large tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nut- 
meg, mace and cinnamon. 

Blanch and pound your almonds, beat 
them very smooth, and mix the sweet and 
bitter together; do them, if you can, the 
diiy before you make the macaroons. 
Pound and sift your spice. Beat the 
whites of three eggs till they stand alone; 
add to them, very gradually, the powdered 
sugar, a spoonful at a time, beat it in very 
bard, and put in, by degrees, the rose-water 
and spice. Then stir in, gradually, the 
alinonis. The mixture must be like a sbft 
dough; if too thick, it will be heavy; if 
too thin, it will run out of shape. If y<Mi 
find your almonds not sufiicient, prepare a 



90 



CAKES, ^UTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



few more, and stir thtm'in. Wlien it is 
all well mixed and stirred, put soon flour 
in the palm of your hand, and takins up a 
lamp of the mixture with a knife, roll it on 

Car hand with the flour into a small round 
11 ; have ready an iron or tin pan, but- 
tered, and lay tlie macaroons in it, as you 
make them up. Place them about two 
inches apart, in case of their spreading. 
Bake them about eight or ten minutes in a 
moderate oven ; they should be baked of a 
pale brown color. If too much baked, 
they will kise their flavor; if too little, 
they will be heavy. Let the top of the 
oven be hotter than the bottom. Thev 
should rise high in the middle, and crack 
on the sor&ce. You may, if you choose, 
put a larger proportion of spice. 

Cocoa-nut cakes may be made in a similar 
nOinner, substituting for the pounded al- 
monds half a pound of finely grated cocoa- 
nut. They must be made into small round 
balls with a little flour laid on the palm of 
the hand, and baked a few minutes. They 
are very fine. 



APEES. 

A pound of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Half a glass of wine, and a table-spoonflil of 

rose-water, mixed. 
Half a pound of powdered white sugar. 
A nutmeg, grated. 
A tea-spoonful of beaten cinnamon and 

mace. 
Three table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 



Sift the flour into a broad pan, and cut 
op the butter in it. Add the carraways, 
sugar, and spice, and pour in the liquor 
by degrees, mixing it well with a knife: 
and add enough of cold water to make 
it a stiff dough. Spread some flour on 
vour pasteboard, take out the dough, and 
knead it very well with your hands. Cut 
it into small pieces, and knead each sepa- 
rately, then put them all together, and 
knead the whole in one lump. Roll it out 
in a sheet about a quarter of an inch thick. 
Cut it out in round cakes, with the edge of 
a tumbler, or a tin of that size. Butter an 
iron pan, and lay tlie cakes in it, no two 
close together. Bake them a few ir.i.inies 
in a moderate oven, till they are very 
slightly colored, but not brown. If too 
much baked, they will entirely lose their 
flavor. Do not roll them out too thin. 

The top of the oven should be hotter 
than the bottom, or the cakes will lose tlieir 
■hape. 



JUMBLES. 

Three eggs. 

Half a pound of flour, sifted. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A nutmeg, grated. a 

A tea-spoonful of mixed mace and ciiyiamoa 

St if the sugar and butter to a cream 
Beat the eggs very light. Throw them,, 
all at once, into the pan of flour. Put in, 
at once, the butter and sugar, and then add 
the spice and rose-water. If you have do 
rose-water, substitute six or seven drops 
of strong essence of lemon, or more if the 
essence is weak. Stir the whole very bard, 
with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, 
and flour your hands well. Tsike up with 
your knife, a portion of tft dough, and lay 
It on the board. Roll it lightly with your 
hands, into long thin rolls, which must be 
cut into equal lengths, curled up into rings, 
and laid gently into an ir<Hi or tin pan, 
buttered, not too close to each other, 90 
they spread in baking. Bake them in a 
quick oven about five minutes, and grate 
loaf-sugar over them when cool. 

The top of the oven may be nearly red 
hot, otherwise the jumbles will run into 
each other, and becf^fge flat and shapeless. 



KISSES. 

One pound of the best loaf-sugar, powdered 

and sifted. 
The whites of four eggs. 
Twelve drops of essence of lemon. 
A tea-cup of currant jelly. 

Beat the whites of four eggs till tliey 
stand alone. Tlien beat in, gradually, the 
sugar, a tea-spoonful at a time. Add the 
essence of lemon, and beat tlie whole very 
hard. 

Lay a wet sheet of paper on the bottmn 
of a square tin pan. Drop on it, at equal 
distances, a small tea-spoonful of stiff* car* 
rant jelly. It is better to put a little of the 
beaten white of egg and sugar at first un- 
der the currant jeny. With a large spoon* 
pile some of die beaten white of egg and 
sugar, on each lump of jelly, so as to cover 
it cntii^ly. Drop on the mixture, as even- 
ly as possible, so as to make the kisses of 
a round smooth shape. 

Set them in a cool oven, and as soon m 
they are colored, they are done. Then 
take them out and place them two bottoms 
together. Lay them lightly on a sieve, 
and dry them in a cool oven, till the two 
bottoms stick fast together, so as to form 
one ball or oval. 



CAKES, BUNS, AND GINGERBJEAD. 



RUSK. 

A. quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
A quarter of a pound of fresh butter. 
One pound of flour, sifted. 
One egg. 

Three wine-glasses of milk. 
» A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Sift ^our flour into a pan. Cut up the 
butter in the milk, and warm them a little, 
so as to soften the butter, but not to melt it 
entirely. Beat your egg; pour the milk 
and butter into your pan of flour, then the 
eggj then the rose-water and spice, and 
k^tly the yeast. Stir all well together 
with a-^cmfew 

Spread some flour on your paste-board : 
hy the dougl^on it, and knead it well. 
Tiien divide it into small pieces of an equal 
size, and knead each piece into a little 
thick round cake. Butter an iron pan, 
lay the cakes in it, and set them in a warm 
place to rise. 'Prick the tops with a fork. 
When they are quite light, oake them in a 
am^finte o?en. 

Rusk should be eaten fresh. 



SPANllte BUNS. 

Four eggs. 

Three quarters of a pound of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound of powdered white susar. 
Two wine-glasses and a half of rich milk. 
Six ounces of fresh butter. 
A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 
A grated nutmeg. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered mace 
and cinnamon. 

Sift half a pound of flour into a broad 
pan, and sift a quarter uf a pound, separ- 
ately, into a deep plate, and set it aside. 
Put the milk into a soup-plate, cut up the 
butter, and set it on the stove or ne|ir the 
fire to warm, but do not let it get too hot. 
When the butter is very soft, stir it all 
through the milk with a knife, and set it 
away to cool. Beat the eggs very l>i^^ 
and mix the milk and butter with ttann^l^ 
at once; then pour all into the pan w^our. 
Put in die spice, and the rose-water, or jf 
you prefer it, eight drops of essence ^«f 
lemon. Add the yeast, of which an in- 
creased quantity will be necessary, if it is 
not very strong and fresh. Stir the whole 
very hard, wiUi a knife. Add the sugar 
gradually. If the su^r is not stirred in 
slowly, a little at a time, the buns will be 
heavy. Then, by degrees, sprinkle in the 
remaining quarter <m a pound of flour. 



Stir all well tog^ether; butter a square iron 

pan, and put in the mixture. Cover it 

with a cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. 

It will probably not be Kght in less than 

five hours. When it is risen very high, 

and is covered with bubbles, bake it in a 

moderate oven, about a qiiarter of an hour 

' ^r more in proportion to its thickness. 

When it is quite cool, cut it in squares, 

and ^te loaf-Rugar over tliem. This 

quantity will make twelve or fifteen buns. 

They are best the day they are baked. 

You may, if you choose, bake them sep- 
arately, in smaU square tins, adding to the 
batter half a pound of currants or chopped 
raisins, well floured, and stirred in at the 
last. 

In making buns, stir the yeast well before 
you put it in, having first poured off the 
beer or thin part from the top. If your 
vfiast is not good, do not attempt to make 
buns witli it, a5 vhey will never be light. 

Buns may be made in a plainer way, with 

the following ingredients, mixed in the 

above manner. 

Half a pound of flour, sifted into a pan. 

A quarter pound of flour, sifted in a plate, 
and set aside to sprinkle in at the mst. 

Three eggs, well beaten. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

Three wine-glasses of milk. 

A wine-glass and a half of the best yeast. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon. 

A quarter of a pound of butter, cut up, 
and warmed in the milk. 

AH buns should be eaten quite fresh. 



NEW-YORK CUP CAKE. 

Four eggs. 

Four cu^s of sifted flour. 

Three cups of powdered white sugar. 

One cup of butter. 

One cup of rich milk. 

One glass of white ^ine. 

A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of cinnamon beaten. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash. 

The cups should hold about a half-pint. 

Warm the milk and cut up the butter in 
it, keeping it by the fire till the butter is 
melted. Prepare the spice, and sift the 
flour. Beat the egg» very light, and stir 
them into tlie milk in turn with the flour. 
Add (he spice, and wine, and lastly the 
pearl-ash, having melted it in a little vine- 
gar. Stir all very hard. 

Butter some small tins, fill them half-fuH 



fi 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



with the mixture, aad bake them in a 
noderate oven of equal beat tbroiighout. 



INDIAN POUND CAKE. 

Eight eggs. 

One pini of powdered sugar. 

One pint of Indian ^ea), sifted, and half a 

pint of wheat flour. 
Half a pound of butter. 
One nutmeg, grated, — and a tea-spoonful 

of cinnamon. 
Half a glass of mixed wine and brandy. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. 
Beat the eggs very lig[ht. Stir the meal 
and eggs, alternately, into the butter and 
sugar. Add the spice and liquor. Stir 
alfwvll. Butter a tin pan, put in the mix- 
ture, and bake it in a moderate oven. 

This cake should be eaten while fresh. 



GINGER CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs. 

Two large tea-cups full of molasses. 
The same of brown sugar roUed fine. 
The same of fresh butter. 
One cup of rich milk. 
4 Five cups of flour, sifted. 
Half a cup of powdered allspice and cloves. 
Half a cup of ginger. 
' A small lea-spoonful of pearl-ash melted in 
vinegar. 

Cut up the butter in the milk, and warm 
them slightly. Warm also the molasses, 
and stir it into the mill^ and butter : then 
stir in, gradually, the sugar, and set it 
away to set cool. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them 
into the mixture alternately with the flour. 
Add the gin»er and other spice, with the 
pearl-ash, and stir the whole very hard. 

Butter small tins, nearly fill them with 
the mixture, and bake tlie cakes in a mod- 
erate oven. 



BUTTER BISCUITS. 

Half a pound of butter. 
Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
Half a pint of milk, or cold water. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Cut up the butter in the flour, and put 
the salt to it. Wet it to a stifi* dough with 
the milk or water. Mix il well with a knife. 

Throw some flour on the paste-board, 
take the dough cnit of the pan, and kaead 
it very well. 



Roll it out into a large thiek sheet, and 
beat it very hard on both sides with the 
rolling-pin. Beat it a long time. 

Cut Jt out with a tin, or cup, into stnalt 
round tliick cakes. Beat each cake oa 
both sides, with the roUin^pin. Prick 
them with a fork. Put them in buttered 
pans, and bake them of a light brown in a 
slow oven. 



LOAF CAKE. 

Two pounds of sifled flour, setting aaide 
half a pound to sprinkle in at the last. 

One pound of fresh butter. ^ , 

One pound of powdered sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One pound raisins, stoned,^nd cut in half. 

One pound of currants, washed and dried. 

Half a pint of milk. 

Half a glass of wine. 

Half a glass of brandy 

A table-ppoonfiil of mixed spice, mace, nat- 
meg and cinnamon.' 

Half a pint of the best brewer's yeast; or 
more, if the yeast is not very strong. 



Cot up the butter in tlie milk, and < 
it|i 1 1 the butter is quite sofl; then stir it 
together, and set it a^ay to cool. It must 
not be made too warm. After you have 
beaten the eggs, mix them with the butter 
and milk, and stir the whole into the pan 
of flour. Add the spice and liquor, and 
stir in the sugar gradually. Having poured 
off the thin part from the top, stir the 
yeast, and pour it inta#he mixture. Then 
sprinkle in the remainder of the flour. 

Have ready the fruit, which must be well 
floured, stir it gradually into the mixture. 
Butter a large tin pan, and put the cake 
into it. Cover it, and set it in a warm 
place for five or six hours to rise. When 
quite light, bake it in a moderate oven. 

This cake is best the day it is baked. 



SUGAR BISCUITS. 

^■irea pounds of flour, sifled. 

OnjAund of butter. 

A ^und and a half of powdered sugar. 

falf a pint of milk, 
wo table-spoonfuls of brandy. 
A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved 

in water. 
Four table-spoonfuls of carraway seeds. 

Cut the butter into the flour. Add the 
sugar and carraway seeds. Pour in the 
brandy, and then the milk. Lastly, put in 
tlie pearl-ash. Stir all well M'ith a knife*. 



J 



GASES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



mnd vaix it thcNXMighly, till it becomes a 
lump of dough. 

Flour yoar paste-board, and lay the 
dough on It. Knead it very well. Divide 
it into eight or ten pieces, and knead each 
piece separately. Then put them all to- 
gether, and knead them very well in one 
lump. 

Cut the dough in half, and roll it out into 
sheets, about half an inch thick. Beat the 
sheets of dou^h very hard, on botli sides, 
with the rollid^-pin. Cut them out into 
round cakes with the edfe of a tumbler. 
Butter iron pans, and lay Uie cakes in them. 
Bake them of a very pate brown. If done 
too much, they will lose their taste. 

Let the oven be hotter at the top than at 
the bottom. 

These cakes kept in a stone jar, closely 
covered from the air, will continue |jerfect- 
ly good for several months. 



GINGERBREAD NUTS. 

Two pounds and a half of flour, siAed. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

One quart of suffar-house molasses. 

Two ounces of ginger, or more, if it is 

not very strong. 
Twelve dozen grains of allspice, ^ powder- 
Six dozen cloves, > ed and 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, ' sifted. 
A half tea-spoonful of pearl-ash or sal 

aeratus, dissolved in a little vinegar. 

Cut up the butter in the flour, and mix 
it with the ginger and other spice. Wet 
the whole with die molasses, and stir all 
well together with a knife. Then add the 
dissolved pearl-ash or sal aeratus. 

Throw some flour on your paste-board, 
lake tlie dough (a large handful at a time) 
and knead it in separate cakes. Then put 
all together, and knead it very hard fur a 
long lime, in one lar^e lump. Cut the 
lump in half, roll it out in two even sheets, 
about half an inch thick, and cut it out in 
little cakes, with a very small tin, about 
the size of a cent. Lay thepa in buttered 
pans, and bake them in a moderate oven, 
taking care they do not scorch, aa gingert 
bread is more liable to burn than aoy«|pi 
csake. ^ 

The oven should be hottest at top. t 

You may, if you choose, shape the gin- 
fferbread nuts, l^ putting flour in your 
hand, taking a ver^r small piece of the 
dough, and rolling it into a little round 
ball. 

If the molasses is thin, or the weather 
warni^ they will require additional flour. 

GiAi^erbrcad nuts are best when a week 
old. 



MILK BISCUITS. 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Two eggs. 

Six wine-glasses of milk. 
Two wine-glasses of the best brewer^s yeast* 
or thrao of good home-made yeast. 

Cut the butter into the milk, and warm 
it slightly on the top of the stove, or near 
the nre. Sift the flour into a pan, and 
pour the milk and butter into it. Beat the 
cggB, and pour them in also. Lastly the 
yeast. Mix all well together with a knife. 

Flour your paste-board, put the lump of 
dough on it, and knead it very hard. Then 
cut the dough in small pieces, and knead 
them into round balls. Stick the tops of 
them with a fork. 

Lay them in buttered pans and set them 
to rise. They will probably be light in an 
hour. When they are quite light, put 
them in a moderate oven and bake them. 

They are best when quite fresh. 



COMMON GINGERBREAD. 

A pint of molasses. 

One pound of fresh butter. * 

Two pounds and a half of flour, sifted. 

A pint of milk. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, or 

if it is strong. 
A tea-cup full of ginger. 

Cut the butter into the flour. Add the 
ginger. 

Having dissolved the pearl-ash in a little 
vinegar, stir it with the milk and molasses 
akernately into tlie other ingredients. Stir 
it very hard for a long time, till it is quite 
light. 

Put some flour on your paste-board, take 
out small portions of the dough, and make 
it with your hand into long rolls. Then 
curl up the rolls into round cakes, or twist 
two rolls together, or lay them in straight 
lengths or sticks side by side, and touching 
each other. Put them carefully in buttered 
^^pans, and bake them in a moderate oven, 
'"^not hot enough to burn them. If they 
should get scorched, scrape off with a 
knife, or grater, all the burnt parts, before 
you put tlie cakes away. 

You can, if you choose, cut out the 
dough with tins, in the shape of hearts, 
circles, ovals, &c. or you may bake it 
all in one, and cut it in squares when 
cold. ^^ •^^ 

^ ' 

If the mixture appears to be too thin, 
ikTd, gradually, a little more sifted flour» 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GiNGfiRBREAO. 



LAFATTETTE GINGERBREAD. 

PiTe eggB* 

Half a pound of brown sugar. 

Half a pound of fresh butter< 

A pint of sngar-liouse molasses. 

A pound and a half of flour. 

Pour table-spoonfuls of ginger. ^ 

Two large sticks of cinnamon, \ AtirmA 

Three dozen grains of allspice, > '^a-I^ 

Three dozen of cloves, 'J and sifted. 

The j^ice and grated peel of two large 

lemons. 

A little pearl-ash or sal oeratus. 

Stir the butter and sn^r to a cream. 
Beat the eggs very well. Pour the molas- 
ses, at once, into the batter and sugar. 
Add tbff ginger and other spice, and stir 
all weN tosether. 

Put in the egg and flour alternately, stir- 
ring all tlie time. Stir the whole very hard. 
And put in the lemon at the last. When 
the whole is mixed, stir it till very light. 

Butt^ an earthen pan, or a thick tin or 
iron one, and put the gingerbread in it. 
Bake it in a moderate oven, an hour or 
more, accorduig to its thickness. Take 
care that it do not burn. 

Or you may bake it in small cakes, or 
little tins. 

■its lightness will be much improved bv a 
small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash dissolved in 
a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stirred lightly 
in at the hist. If the pearl-ash is strong, half 
a tea-spoonful will be sufficient, or less even 
will do. It is better to stir the pearl-ash 
in, a little at a time, and you can tell by 
the taste of the mixture, when tliere is 
enough. Too much pearl-ash, will give it 
an unpleasant taste. 

If you use pearl-ash, you must omit the 
lemon, as its taste will be entirely destroy- 
ed bv the pearl-ash. You may substitute 
for the lemon, some raisins and currants, 
well floured to prevent their sinking. 

This is the finest of all gingerbread, but 
should not be kept long, as in a few days 
it becomes very hard and stale. It is beat 
the day it is baked. 



rolling-pin. Then mix it with the floor. 
Cut up in the flour the butter and the iard, 
and mix it well by rubbing it in with your 
hands. Add by degrees enougli of coU 
water to make a stin dough. Then knead 
the dough very hard, till it no longer sticks 
to your bands. Cover it, set it away for 
an hour or two, and then knead it again 
in the same manner. You may repeat the 
kneading several times. Then cut it into 
pieces, roll out each piece into a sheet half 
an inch thick. Cut it into large flat cakes 
with a tin cutter. You may stamp each 
cake with a wooden print, by way of or- 
namenting the surface. 

Sprinkle with flour some large flat tin 
or iron pans, lay the cakes in them and 
bake them of a pale brown, in an oven of 
equal heat tliroughout. 

These cakes require more and harder 
kneading than any others, tlierefore it is 
best to have them kneaded by a man, or a 
very strong woman. 

They are greatly improved by the addi- 
tion of some carraway seeds worked int» 
the dough. \ 



A DOVER CAKE. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A half tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, dissolved 

in a little vinegar. 
One pound of sined flour. 
One pound of. powdered white 8ugar« 
Half a pound of butter. 
Six eggs. 

One glass of brandy.. 
Half a glass of rose-water. 
One gi-ated nutmeg. 
A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 



NEW-YEAR»S CAKE. 



Seven pounds of flour, sided. 
Half a pound of butter. 
Half a pound of lai*d. 
Two pounds and a half of white Havanna 
sugar. 

Ha^H^ftiftOTTtlNplour, spread the sugar 
on the^pHrte-board, a little at a time, and 
crush it U> powder by rolling il with the 



Dissolve the pearl-ash in vinegar. Stir 

the sugar and butter to a cream, and add 

jto it gradually, the spice and liquor. Beat 

the eggs very light, and stir them into the 

butter and sugar, alternately, with the flour. 

Add, gradually, tlie milk, and stir the 

whole very hard. 

Butter a Ift-ge tin pan, and put in the 

^luixture. Bake it two hours or more, in a 

^m^u-ate oven. If not thick, an hour or 

aaBKir and a half will be sufficient. 

^^rap it in a thick cloth, and keep it 

■from the air, and it will continue moist and 

fresh for two weeks. The pearl-ash «i| 

give it a dark color. ^ 



It will be much improved by a pound of 
raisins, stoned and cut in lialf, and a pomd 
of currants, well washed and dried. 

Flour the fruit well, and stir it in «t lll9 
la?t. 



J 



CAKEd, Nuts, anj> g1n6£rbread. 



JDRULLERS. 

Half a pound of butter. 

Three quarters of a pound of powdered 

white Bugarv 
Six eggs, or seveii if Oh^ are tinall. 
Two pounds of dour, siued. 
A grated nntmeg. 

A teanspoonful of powdered cinnamon. 
A teble-epooofiil of rose-water. 

Cut tlie butter into the floury add the 
sugar and spice* and mix them well to- 
gether. 

Beat the eggs, and pour them inl^o the 
pan of flour, &c. Add the roee-water, and 
mix the whole into a dough. If the eggs 
and rose-water are not found sufficient to 
wet it, add a very little cold water. Mix 
the dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, 
take the dough out of the^ian, and knead 
it very well. Cut it into small pieces, and 
knead each separately. Put all the pieces 
together, and knead the whole in one lamp. 
Roll it out into a large Square sheet, about 
half an inch thick. Take a jaggins-iron, 
or, if you have not one, a sharp knife; run 
it along the sheet, and cut the dough into 
long narrow slips. Twist them up in va- 
rious forms. Have ready an iron pan 
with melted lard. Lay the crullers lightly 
in it, and fry tliem of a light brown, turn- 
ing Uieoi with a knife and fork, so as not 
to break them, and taking care thai both 
sides are equally done. 

When sulficiently fried, spread ihem on 
a lar?e disii to cool, and grate loaf-sugar 



Crullers may b/made in a plainer way, 
witli the best brown sugar, (rolled very 
fine,) and without spice or rose-water. 

They can be fried, or ratlier boiled, in a 
dee^ iron pot. They should be done in a 
large quantity of lard, and taken out with 
a bkiinmer that has holes in it, and held on 
tlie skimioer till the lard drains from them. 
If for family use, they can be made an inch 
thick* They will keep several days, and 
be as good as when fresh. 



WAFFLES. 

Six eggs. 

A pint of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 

^' pound and a half of flour, sifted. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Warm the milk slightly* Cut up the 
batter in it and stir it a little. Beat the 
eggs well, and pour them into the butter 



and milkh Sprinkle in half the fleoTy 
gradually. Stir in the sugar, by degrees^ 
and add the spice. Stir in, gradually, the 
remainder of the flour, so that it becomes 
a thick batter. 

Heat your waffle-iron; then grease it 
well, and pour in some of the batter. Shut 
the iron tight, and bake the waffle on both 
sides, by lerning the iron. 

As the waffles are baked, spread them 
out separately on a clean napkin. When 
edough are none for a plate-fuil, lay them 
on a plate in tw6 piles, buttering them, 
and sprinkling each with beaten cinnamon* 



DOUGH-NUTS. 

Three pomids of sifted flour* 

A pound of powdered sugar. 

Three quarters of a pound of bot^ ' 

Four eggs. 

Half a large tea-cup full of best brewer^ 

yeast. 
A pint and a half of milk. 
A tea-spooofiil of powdered cinnamon^ 
A grated nutmeg* 
A table-spoonfulbf rose-water. 

Cut np the butter in the flour. Add the 
sugar, spice, and rose-water. Beat the 
eggs very light, and pour them into th4 
mixture. Add the yeast, (half a tea-cup 
or two wine glasses full,) and then stir' in 
the milk by degrees, so as to make it a soft 
dough. Cover it, and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds 
with a jagging-iron or a sharp knife, and 
fry them in lard. Grate loaf-sn^ar ovor 
them when done. 



SOFT MUFFINS, 

Five eggs. 

A quart of milk, 

Two ounces of butter. 

A tRa-spooufid of salt. 

Two large table-spoonfuls of brewer's yessC 

or four of home-made yeast. 
Enongh of sifted flour to make a stifi' batter. 

Warm the milk and butter together, and 
add to them tlie salt. Beat the eggs very 
light and stir them i.'-*o the milk and but- 
ter. Then stir in the yeast, and lastly, 
sufficient flour to make a thick batter. 

Cover the mixture, and set it to rise, in 
a warm place, about three lio(ir&. 

When it is quite light, grease your bak- 
ing-iron, and your muf&n rings . Set tlie 
rings on the iron, and potij^Mfantter into 
them. Bake them a ligli^^^Hi* ' When 
you split them to put on thMRter, do not 



CAKES, NUTS, AKD GINGERBREAD. 



cot them with a knile, but puU them opea 
with yom- hande. Cutting them while hot 
will make them heavy. 



INDIAN BATTER CAKES. 



'■! 



mixed. 



A quart of sifVed Indian meal, 

A handful of wheat flour sifted, 

Three em, well beaten. 

Two table-tpoonfuls of fresh brewer's yeast, 

or four of home-made yeast. 
A tea-spoonful of salt. 
A quart of milk. 

Make the milk quite warm, and then 
put into it the yeast and salt, stirring them 
well. Beat the eggs, and stir them into 
the mixture. Then, gradually, stir in the 
flour and Indian meal. 

Cover the batter, and set it to rise four 
or five hours. Or if the weather is cold, 
and you want the cakes for breakiast, you 
may mix the batter late the night before'. 

Should you find it sour in the morning, 
dissolve a small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash 
in as much water as will cover it, and stir 
it into the batter, letting it set afterwards 
at least half an hour. This will take off 
the acid. 

Grease vour baking-iron, and pour on 
it a ladle-mil of the batter. When brown 
on one side, turn the cake on the other. 

Indian batter cakes may be made in a 
plain and expeditious way, by pnttin^ three 
pints of cold water or cold milk into a 
pan, and gradually sifting into it (stirring 
all die time) a quart of Indian meal mixed 
with half a pint of wheat-flour, and a smaU 
spoonful of salt. Stir it very hard, and it 
may be baked immediately, as it is not ne- 
cessary to set it to rise. 



CREAM CAKES. 

A quart of cream. 

Four eggs. 

Sifted flour sufficient for a thick batter. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, or a 

larger one of sal-eeratus. 
A small tea-spoonful of salt. 

Beat four eggs till very light, and stir 
them by degrees into a quart of cream. 
Add, gradually, enough of sifted flour to 
make a thick batter. Put in the salt. 
Dissolve the pearl-ash in as much vinegar 
as will cover it, and stir it in at tlie last. 

Bake the mixture in muffin-rings. Send 
the cakes to table quite hot. Pull them 
open, and b|||^hem. 

For thts^^^Bsour cream is better than 
sweet. ^1^ 



FLANNEL CAKES OR CRUMPETST. 

Two pounds of flour, sifled^ 

Four eggs. 

Three table-spoonfuls of the best brewer's 

yeast, or four and a half of home-made 

yeast. 
A pint of milk. 

Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with the floor, 
and set the pan before the fire. Then warm 
the milk, and stir into it the flour, so as 
to make a stiff batter. Beat the eggs very 
light, and stir them into the yeast. Add 
the eggs and yeast to the batter, and beat 
all weir togetlier. If it is too stiff, add a 
little more warm milk. 

Cover the pan closely and set it to rise 
near the fire. Bake it, when quite light. 

Have your baking-iron hot. Grease it, 
and pour on a ladle-full of batter. Let it 
bake slowlv, and when done on one side, 
turn it on the other. 

Butter the cakes, cat them across, and 
send them to table hot. 



ROLLS. 

Three pints of flour, sifted. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt. 

Four table-spoonfuls of the best brewer's 

yeast, or six of home-iAade yeast. 
A pint of luke-warm water. 
Half a pint more of warm water, and a 

little more flour to mix in before the 

kneading. 

Mix the salt with the flour, and make a 
deep hole in the middle. Stir the warm 
water into the yeast, and pour it into the 
hole in the flour. Stir it with a spoon just 
enough to make a thin batter, and sprinkle 
some flour over the top. Cover the pan, 
and set it in a warm place for several hours. 

When it is light, add half a pint more 
of luke-warm water ; and make it, with a 
little more flour, into a doiwh. Knead it 
very well for ten minutes. Then divide it 
into small pieces, and knead each separate- 
ly. Make them into round cakes or rolls. 
Cover them, and set them to rise about an 
hour and a half. 

Bake thein, and when done, let them re- 
main in the oven, without the lid, for aboot 
ten minutes. 



RICE CAKES FOR BR£AKFAST«>» 

Put half a pound of rice in aoak aMr 
nisht. Early in the morning boil it rerj 
soft, drain it firom the water, mix with it 
a quarter of a pound of butter and aet it 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 



%way to cooL Wlien it ia cold, stir it into 
a quart of milk, and add a verjr little salt. 
Beat six eggs, and sift half a pint of flour. 
Stir the e^ and flour alternately into the 
rice and milk. Having beaten the whole 
very well, bake it on the griddle in cakes 
about the size of a small dessert-plate. 
Butter them, and send them to table hot. 



JELLY CAKE. 

Stir toeether till very light, half a pound 
of fresh butter and half a poand of pow- 
«lered white sugar. Beat twelve eggs very 
light, and stir ihem into the butter and su- 

Sir, alternately with a pound of sifted flour, 
dd a beaten nutmeg, and half a wine- 
glaas of roee-water. Have ready a flat 



circuku* plate of tin, which most be bid 
on your sriddle, or in the oven of your 
stove, and well greased with boUer. Four 
on it a large Udle-fiiU of the batter, and 
bake it as you would a buck-wheat cake, 
taking care to have it of a good shape* 
It will not require turning. Bake as many 
of these cakes as you want, laying each on 
a separate plate. Then spread jelly or 
marmalade all over the top of each cake, 
and lay another upon it. Spread that also 
with jelly, and so on till you have a pile 
of five or six, looking like one large thick 
cake. Trim the edge nicely with a pen- 
knife, and cover the top with powdered 
sugar. Or you may ice it; putting on the 
nonpareils or sugar-sand in such a manner 
as to mark out the cake in triangular di- 
visions. Wlien it is to be eaten, cut it la 
three-cornered slices as you would a pie. 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



In preparing sugar for sweetmeats, let it be entirely dissolved, 
before you put it on the fire. If you dissolve it in water, aUow 
about half a pint of water to a pound of sugar. 

If you boil the sugar before you add the fruit to it, it will be 
improved in clearness by passing it through a flannel bag. Skim 
off the brown scum, all the time it is boiling. 

If sweetmeats are boiled too long, they lose their flavor and 
become of a dark color. 

If boiled too short a time, they will not keep well. 

You may ascertain when jelly is done, by dropping a small 
tfpoonful into a glass of water. 

If it spreads and mixes with the water, it requires more boiling. 
If it sinks in a lump to the bottom, it is sufliciently done. Tius 
trial must be made after the jelly is cold. 

Raspberry jelly requires more boiling than any other sort. 
Black currant jelly less. 

Keep your sweetmeats in glass jars, or in those of w^|^ queen's 
ware. 



» 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIKS. 



BLANCMANGE. 



Poor calf's feet. 

A pint and a half of thick cream.* 

Half a pound of loaf-sugar, broken up. 

A fflass uf wine. 

Hair a glass of rose-water. 

A tea-8()ooiiful of mace, beaten and sifted. 

Get four calf 's-feet; if possible some 
that have been scahied, and not skinned. 
Scrape, and clean tliem well, and Ijoil ihem 
in three quarts of water till ull liie meat 
drops off the bone. Drain the liquid 
through a colander or sieve, and skim it 
well. Let it stand till next morning fo 
congeal. Then clean it well from the sed- 
iment, and put it into a tin or bell-metal 
kettle. Stir into it, the cream, sugar, and 
mace. Boil it hard for five minutes, stir- 
ring it several times. Then strain it 
through a linen cloth or napkin into a 
hucge bowl, and add the wine and rose- 
water. 

Set it in a cool place for three or four 
hours, stirring it very frequently with a 
^K>on, to prevent the cream from separat- 
ing from the Jelly. The more it is stirred 
the better. Stir it till it is cool. 

Wash your moulds, wipe them dry, and 
then wet them with cold water. Wliien the 
blancmange becomes ver}' thick, (that is, 
in three or four hours, if the weather is not 
too damp) put it into your moulds. 

When it has set in them till it is quite 
firm, loosen it carefully all round with a 
knife, and turn it out on glass or china 
plates. 

If you wish to make it with almonds, 
take an ounce of blanched bitter almonds, 
and two ounceM of sweet. Beat them in a 
mortar to a fine paste, pouring in occasion- 
ally a little rose-water. When the mixture 
is ready to boil, add the almondi} to it grad- 
ually, stirring them well in. Or you may 
atir them in, while it is cooling in tlie 
bowl. 

If it inclines to stick to the moulds, set 
them an instant in hot water. It will tlien 
turn out easily. 

If you choose to make it without calf's 
feet, you can substitute an ounce of the best 
aod clearest isinglass (or, if in summer, an 
ounce and a quarter) boiled with the other 
ingredients. If made with isinglass, you 
must use two ounces of sweet, and an ounce 
of bitter almonds, with the addition of the 
gmted rind of a large lemon, and a large 
stick of cinnamon, broken up, a glass of 
wine, and half a glass of rose-water. These 



* Blancmalil^s greatly improved by boiling 
In the cream an ounce of bitter almonds brok- 
en in pieces, or a iiandful of peacb-leaves. 



ingredients must be all mixed together, with 
a quart of cream, and boiled liaid for five 
minutes. Tiie mixture must then be stram- 
e.l through a napkin, into a large bowL 
9et it in a cool place, and stir it frequently 
till nearly cold. It must then be put into 
the moulds. 

You may substitute ibr the almonds, 
half a gill of nuyau, in which case, omit 
the wine. 



CALF'S-FEET JELLY. 

Eight calf's feet. 

Three quarts of water. 

A pint of white wine. 

Three lemons. 

The whiles of six e^gs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon. 

Half pound loaf-sugar, broken into Inmpt. 

Endeavor to procure calf 's-feet, that 
have been nicelv scalded, but not akiimeda 
as the skin being left on, makes the jelly 
much firmer. 

The day before you want to use the jdly, 
boil the eight calf 'a-feet in three quarts of 
water, till the meat drops firom the bona. 
When snfiicientlv done, put it into a cohm- 
der or sieve, and let the liquid drain from 
the meat, into a broad pan or dish. Skim 
off the fat. Let the jelly stand til! tiext 
day, and then carefully scrape off tiie sedi- 
ment from the bottom. It will be m fiim 
jelly, if too much water has not been used, 
and if it has boiled Ion? enough. If it is 
not firm at first, it will not become so aA 
terwards when boiled with the other ingre- 
dients. There should on no account be 
more than three quarts of water. 

Early next morning, put the jelh^ into a 
tin kettle, or covered tin pan ; set it on the 
fire, and melt it a little. Take it off, and 
season it with tlie cinnamon slightly broken, 
a pint of Madeira wine, three lemons cut 
in thin slices, and half a pomid of kaf- 
sugar, broken up. 

If you wish it high-colored, add two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of French brandy. Mix all 
well together. Beat, slightly, the wbit^ 



them in also. Stir the whole very 'wtf 
together. 

Set it on the fire, and boil it hard five 
minutes, but do not stir it, as that will pre- 
vent its ckariiig. Have ready a ttree 
white flannel bag, the top wtde^ and (N 
bottom tapering to a point.' 

Tie the bag to the backs of two chain, 
or to the legs of a table, atad tnt a whita 
dish or a mould under it. 

After the jelly has boiled fiye mimiteii 



J 



SWEETMEATS. 



29. 



pour it hot into the ba^^and let it drip 
through into the dish. Do not squeeze the 
bag, as that will make the jelly dull and 
cloiidy. 

If it is not clear the firpt time it passes 
through *the bag, empty out all the ingre- 
dients, wash the bag, sufipend it again, put 
another white di«h under it, pour the jelly 
back into the bag, and let it drip through 



again. Repeat this six or eight times, or 
till it is clear, putting a clean dish luider it 
every time. If it does not drip freely. 



move the bag into a warmer place 

When the jeliy has all dripped through 
the bag, and is clear, set it in a cool place 
to congeal. It will sometimes congeal im- 
mediately, and sometimes not for several 
hours, particuktrly if the weather is warm 
and damp. If the weather is very cold you 
must take care not to let it freeze. When 
it is quite firm, which perhaps it will not 
be till evening, fill your glasses with it, 
piling it up very high. If you make it in 
a mould, you must either set the mould un- 
der the bag while it is dripping, or pour 
it from tlie dish into the mould while it is 
liquid. When it is perfectly oongealeri, 
dip the mould (or an instant in boiling water 
to looaen the jelly. Turn it out on a glass 
dish. ' 

This quantity of ingrec'it Mts will make 
a qttart of jelly when finished. In cool 
weather it maybe made a day or two before 
it is wanted. 

Yoii may increase the seasoning, (that is, 
the wine, lemon, and cinnamon,) according 
to your taste, but less than the above pro- 
portion will not be sufficient to flavor the 



^"/e; 



ice jelly is made ia the same manner, 
only not so stiff. Four calves-feet will be 
euthcient. Freeze it as you would ice- 
cream, and serve it up in glasses. 



APPLE JELLY. 

Take the best pippin, or bell-flower ap- 
ples. No others will make good jpHy. 
Pare, core, and quarter them. Lay them 
in a preserving kettle, and put to them as 
much water onlV} as will cover them, unA 
as much lemon-pe3l as yoii choose. Boil 
them till tliey are soft, but not till they 
break. Drain off the water through a co- 
lander, and mash the apples with the bark 
of a spoon. Put them into a jelly-hag, set 
a deep dish or pan under it, and squeeze out 
the juice. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar, Voken up, and the juice of 
iwo lemons. Put the apple-juice, the su- 
sar, and the lemon-juice, into the preserv- 
ing kettle. Boil it twenty miuute.«, skim- 
— * — it well. Take it immediately from 



the kettle, and pour it warm into yoor 
glasses, but not so hot as to break tfiem. 
When cold, cover each glass with white 
paper dipped in brandy, and tie it dowa 
tight with arfbther paper. Keep them in a 
cool place. 

Quince Jelly is made in the same man- 
ner, but do not pare the quinces. Quarter 
tliem only. 



RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash your currants, drain them, and 
pick them from the stalks. Mash them 
with the back of a spoon. Put them in a 
jeliy-bflg, and squeeze it till all the juice is 
pressed out. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of 
the best loaf-sugar. Put the juice and the 
sugar into your kettle, and boil them twen- 
ty minutes, skimming all the while. Pour 
it v^arm into your glasses, and when cold, 
tie it up with brandy paper. Jellies shoukl 
nevei; be allowed to get cold in the kettle. 
If boiled too long, they will lose their fla- 
vor, and become of a dark color. 

Strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, and 
grape jelly may be made in the same man- 
ner, auJ willi the same proportion of loaP 
sugar. 

Red cui-rant jelly may also be made in a 
very simple manner, by putting the currants 
whole into the kettle, with the sugar; al- 
lowing a pound of sugar to a pound of cur- 
rants. Boil tliem together twenty minutes, 
skimming carefully. Then pour them into 
a sieve, with a pan under it. Let them 
drain through the sieve into the pan, press- 
in? them down with the back of a spoon. 

Pake the jelly, while warm, out of the 
pan, and put it into your glasses. Tie it 
up with brandy paper when cold. 

This jelly is best made of an equal quan- 
tity of red and whitel^rrauts. 



BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick the currants from the stalks, wash 
and drain them. Mash them soft with a 
spoon, put them in a bag, and squeeze out 
the juice. To each pint of juice, allow 
three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Put the juice an! sugar into a preserving 
kettle, and boil them about ten minutes, 
skimming tliem well. Take it immediate- 
ly out of the kettle. Put it warm into 
your glasses. Tie it up with brandy paper. 

The juice of black currants is so very 
thick, that it requires less sugar and less 
boiling tlian any other jelly. 



30 



SWEETMEATS. 



GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 



Gut the gooeeberries in half, (they must 
be green) and put them in ^ jar closely 
covered. Set tlie jar in an oven, or pot 
filled with boiling water. Keep the water 
boiling round the jar till die gooseberries 
are soft, take them out, mash mem with a 
spoon, and put them into a jelly-bag to 
drain. When all the juice is squeezed out, 
measure it, and to a pint of juice, allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Put the juice and 
sugar into the preservin|r kettle, and boil 
them twenty- minutes, skimming carefully. 
Put the jelly warm into your glasses. Tie 
them up with brandy paper. 

Cranberry jelly is made in the same 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash 
and drain them. Mash tliem with a spoou. 
Put them in the preserving kettle, anq cov- 
er them closely witli a large plate. " Boil 
them ten miuutes. Tlien pour them into 
your ielly bag, and squeeze out tlie juice. 

Allow a piut of juice to a pound of sugar. 
Put the sugar and juice into your kettle, 
and boil them twenty minutes, skimming 
them well. 

Fill your glasses while tlie jelly is warm, 
and tie them up with brandy papers. 



PEACH JELLY. 

Wipe the wool off your peaches, (which 
should be free-stones and not too ripe) aud 
cut them in quartets. Crack the stones, 
and break the kernels small. 

Put the peache» and die kernels into a 
covered jar, set them in boiling water, and 
let them buil till tl«| are soft. 

Strain them thniugh a jeliy-bag. till all 
the juice is squeezed out. Allow a pound 
of loaf-su^ar to a pint of juice. Put the 
sugar and juice into a preserving kettle, 
and boil them twenty miuutes, sKimiiiitig 
carefully. 

Put tlie jelly warm into yuur glasses, and 
when cold, tie them up with brdudy paper. 

Plum, and green-gage jelly may be made 
in the same manner, with the kernels, 
which greatly improve the flavor. 



PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Pare and core your quinces, carefully 
•akine out the parts that are knotty and 



defective. Cut \hem into quarters, or mto 
round slices. Put them into a preserving 
kettle, and cover them with the paringi 
and a very little water. Lay a large phte 
over them to keep in the steam, ^nd boil 
them till they are tender. 

Take out the auinces, and strain the 
liquor through a bag. To every pint of 
liquor, allow a pound of loaf-sugar. Boil 
tlie juice and sugar together, about ten 
minutes, skimmins it well. Then put in 
the quinces, and boil them gently twenty 
minutes. When the sugar seems to have 
completely penetrated them, take them out, 
put them in a glass jar, and pour the juice 
over them warm. Tie them up, when cold, 
with brandy paper. 

In preserving fruit that is boiled first 
without the sugar, it is generally better 
(after the first boiling) to let it stand til! 
next day before you put the sugar to it. 



PRESERVED PIPPINS. 

Pare and core some of the largest and 
finest pippins. Put them in your preserv- 
ing kettle,* with some lemon-peel, and all 
tlie apple-pu. i .igs. Add a very little wat^ , 
and cover them closely. Boil them till 
they are tender, taking care they do not 
burn. Take out the apples, and spread 
tliem on a large dish to cool. Pour the 
liquor into a bag, and strain it well. Put 
it into your kettle with a pound of k>af- 
sugar to each pint of juice, and add lemoB 
juice to your taste. Boil it five minutes, 
skinuuing it well. Then put in the whole 
apples, and boil them slowly half an hour, 
or till they are quite soft and clear. Put 
them with the juice, into your jars, and 
when quite cold, tie them up with brandy 
paper. 

Preserved apples are only intended for 
present use, as they will uot keep long. 

Pears may be done in the same wav, 
eitlier whole or cut in half. They may be 
Havored either with lemon or cinnamon, 
or both. The pears for preserving should 
be green. 



PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Take the largest and finest free-stone 
peaclies, before they are too ripe. Pare 

* The use of brass or bell metal kettles Is 
now almost entirely superseded by the enam- 
elled kettles of iron lined with china, called 
preserving kettles ; brass and bell-metal hav 
ing always been objectionable on account of 
the verditrns which collects in them. 



SWEETMEATS. 



31 



them, and cut them in halves or in quarters. 
Crack the stones, and take out tlie kernels, 
and break tltem in pieces. Put the peach- 
esy with the parings and kernels, into your 
preserving kettle, with a very little water. 
Boil thtifh till they are tender. Take out 
the peaches and spread theoi on a large 
dish to cool. Stiain the liquor through a 
bag or sieve. Next day, measure the juice, 
and to each pint allow a pound of loaf- 
silgar. Put die juice and sugar into the 
keule with the peaches, and boil them 
slowly half an hour, or till they are quite 
wiA, skimming all tlie time. Take the 
peaches out, put them into your jars, and 
pour the warm liquor over them. When 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

If boiled too long, they will look dull, 
and be of a dark color.* 

If you do not wish the juice to be very 
thick, do not put it on to boil with the 
sugar, but first boil the sugar alone, with 
only as much water as will dissolve it, 
and skim it well. Let the^ sugar, in all 
cases, be entirely melted before it goes on 
the fire. Having boiled the sugar and 
water, and skimmed it to a clear sirup, 
then put in your juice and fruit together, 
and boil diem till completely penetrated 
with the sugar. 



ANOTHER WAY OF PRESERVING 
PEACHES. 

Take brge juicy ripe free-stone peaches, 
pare them and cut them in quarters. Crack 
half the stones, and blanch the kernels in 
fcalding water. Weigh the peached, and 
to each pound allow a pound of loaf-sugai'. 
Mix them with the kernels, lay diem in a 
deep dish, or tureen, and mix with them 
also the sugar. Cover them and let them 
■et all night. 

In the morning put the peaches and su- 
gar whh die kernels int# a preserving ket- 
tle, and boil them till soft and clear; skim- 
ming them carefully. Use no water, as 
the juice that has been drawn out while 
they lay in the sugar will be sufficient. 

When cold, put them in jars and tie 
them up with brandy- paper, leaving the 
kernels among them. 

Green gages and plums may be done in 
this manner when quite ripe, using also 
half Uie kernels. 



* To preserve peaches whole, pare them 
and thrust out the stones with a skewer. 
Then proceed as above, only blanch the ker- 
nels and keep them whole. When the peach- 
es are done, stick a kernel info the hule of 
every peach, before you put them into the jars, 
large fruit wili keep best in broad shallow 



PRESERVED CRAB APPLES 

Wash your fruit. Cover the bottom of 
your preserving kettle with grape leaves. 
Put in the apples. Hang them over the 
fire, with a very little water, and cover 
them closely. Do not allow them to boil, 
but let them simmer gently till they are yel- 
low. Take them out, and spread them on 
a large dish to cool. Pare and core them. 
Put them again into the kettle, witli fresh 
vine-leaves under and over diem, and a 
very little water. Hang them over the 
fire till they are green. Do not let them 
boil. 

Take them out, weigh them, and allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of crab- 
apples. Put to the sugar just water enough 
to dissolve it. When it is all melted, put 
it on the fire, and boil and skim it. Then 
put in your fruit, and boil the apples till 
they are quite clear and soft. Put them 
in jars, and pour the warm liquor over 
them. When cold, tie them up with bran- 
dy paper. 



PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Cut your pinms in half, (they must not. 
be quite ripe,) and take out the stones. 
Weigh the plums, and allow a pound of 
loaf-sugar to a pound of fruit. Crack the 
stones, take out the kernels and break liiciift 
in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels very 
slowly for about fifteen minutes, in as little 
water as possible. Then spread them on 
a large dish to cool, and strain the liquor. 

Next day make your sirup. Melt the 
sugar in as little water as will suffice to 
dissolve it, (about a ^ill of water to a 
pound of sugar) and boil it a few minutei^ 
skimming it till quite clear. Then put in 
your plums with the liquor, and boil them 
fifteen minutes. Put them in jars, pour 
the juice ovmt them warm, and tie them 
up, wlien coM, with brnndy paper. 

Plums for common \xm, are very good done 
in molasses. Put your plums into an eartlien 
vessel that holds a gallon, having first slit 
each plum with a knife. To three quarts 
of plums put a pint of mo^aapes. Cover 
them and set them on hqt coals in the 
chimney corner. Let them stew for twelve 
hours or more, occasionally stirring them, 
and I'enewing the coals. Next day put 
them np in jars. Done in this manner 
ihey will keep till the next spring. 

Sirups may be improved in clearness, 
by adding to the dissolved surarand water, 
some white of egg very well oeaten, allow- 
ing the white of one egs to two pounds of 
sugar. Boil it very hard, (adding the 
egg-shells) and skim it well, that H' may 
be quite clear before you put in your fruit. 



ss 



SWEETMEATS. 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh the etra wherries after yon have 
picked off the stems. To ea^h pound of 
n'uit allow a pound of loaf-sugar, wliich 
must be powdered. Strew half of the su- 
gar over the strawberries, and let them 
stand in a cold place two or three hours. 
Then put them in a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire, and by decrees strew on the 
rest of the sugar. Boil tliera fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and skim them well. 

Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, and 
when cold, seal the corks. 

If you wish to do them whole, take them 
carefully out of tlie sirup, (one at a time) 
while trailing. Spread them to cool on 
large dishes, not letting the strawberries 
touch each other, and when cool, return 
them to the sirup, and boil them a little 
longer. Rq^eat this several times. 

Keep the bottles in dry sand, in a place 
that is cool and not damp. 

Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, cher- 
ries and grap<» *«^y be done in the same 
manner. The stones must be taken from 
the cherries (which should be morellas, or 
the lai^est and best red cherries ; ) and the 
ieeds should be extracted from the grapes 
with the sharp point of a penknife. Goose- 
berries, grapes, and cherries, require long- 
er boiling than strawberries, raspberries or 



PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 

Wash your cranberries, weigh them, and 
to each pound allow a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Dissolve the sugar in a very little water, 
^bout a gill of water to a pound of sugar) 
and set it on the fire in a preserving kettle. 
Boil it nearly ten minutes, skimming it 
well. Then put in your cranberries, and 
boil them slowly, tifl they 9^ quite soil, 
mad of a fine cok>ur. 

Put them warm iato your jars or glasses, 
and tie them up with brandy paper, when 
cold. 

All sorts of sweetmeats keep better in 
fflasses, than in stone or earthen jars. 
When opened for use, they should be tied 
np again immediately, as exposure 10 the 
air spoils them. 

Common ^lass tumblers are' very conve- 
nient for jellies, and preserved small fruit. 
White iars are better than stone or eactfa- 
cn, for kirge firuit. 



PRESERVED PUMPKIN. 

Cot slices from a fine high-colored pump- 
kin, and cut the slices into chips about the 
Aickneag of a dollar. The chips should 



be of an equal size, six inches in length, 
and an inch broad. Weigh them, and al- 
low to each pound of pumpkin chips, a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Have ready a suffi- 
cient number of fine lemons, pare off the 
yellow rind, and lay it aside, uut the 
lemons in half, and squeeze the juice into 
a bowl. Allow a gill of juice to each pound 
of pumpkin. 

Put the pumpkin into a broad pan laying 
the sugar among it. ' Pour the lemon-juice 
over it. Cover the pan, and let tlie pump- 
kin chips, sugar and lemon-juice, set all 
niffht. 

Early in the mornins put the whole into 
a preserving pan, and boil all together 
(skimming it well) till the pumpkin be- 
comes clear and crisp, but not till it bredu. 
It should have the appearance of lemon- 
candy. You may if you choose, put some 
lemon-peel with it, cut in very small pieces. 

Half an hour's boiling (or a little more) 
is generally sufficient. 

When it is done, take out the pumpkin, 
spread it on a large dish, and strain the 
sirup through a hag. Put the pumpkm 
into your jars or glasses, pour the simp 
over it, and tie it up with brandy paper. 

If properly done, this is a very fine 
sweetmeat. The taste of the pumpkin 
will be lost in that of the lemon and sugar, 
and the sirup is particularly pleasant. It 
is eaten without cream, like preserved 
ginger. It may be laid on puff-paste shells, 
after they are baked. 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a pomid of 
fruit. Mash the raspberries and put them 
with tlie sugar into your preserving-kettle. 
Boil it slowly for an hour, skimaiing it 
well. Tie it up with brandy paper. 

All jams ara made in tlie same manner. 



PRESERVED PINE-APPLE. 

Pare your pine-apples, and cut them in 
thick slices taking out the core. Weigh 
the slices and to each pound allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar. Dissolve the sugar in avei^ 
small quantity of water, stir it, and set it 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle. Boil 
it ten minutes, skimming it well. Then 
put in it the pine-apple slices, and boil 
them till they are clear and soft, but not 
till th^ break. About half an hour (or 
perhaps less time) will suffice. Let them 
cool in a large dish or pan, before you pot 
them into your jars, which you must do 
carefiiUy, lest they break. Pour the sirup 
over them. Tie them up with brandy paper. 



SWEETMEATS. 



83 



ANOTHER WAY OP PRESERVING 
PINE.APPLES. 

Havinff pared your pine-applei, alioe 
them aad take out the core from the mid- 
dle of each slice, leaving a round hole. 
To each pound of pine-apple allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar. Mix half the lugar with 
the pine-apple, and let them lie in it ail 
ni^ht, or for several hours, to extract the 

nee. Then mix them with the remaining 
f of the sugar, and put the whole into a 
preserving-kettle. Boil it till they are 
cfear and tender, but not till the slices 
Hak. Skim it well. Set it away to 
c^, and then put it into large glasshj^rs 
tied up with brandy-paper. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two quarts of West India Molasses. 
One pound of brown sugar. 
The juice of two large lemons, or a tea- 
spoonful of strong essence of lemon. 

Mix together tlie molasses and sugar — 
taking care to use West India Molasses, 
which for this purpose is much tlie best. 

Put the mixture into a preserving-kettle, 
and boil it for three hours over a moderate 
fire. When it is thoroughly done, it will 
of itself cease boiling. If sufficiently boil- 
ed, it will be crisp and brittle when cold. 
If not boiled enough, it will never congeal. 



but will be too^h and ropy: and must hm 
boiled over au^ain. 

While boiling, stir it frequently, and 
take care tliat it does not bum. After it 
has boiled about two hours and a half, stir 
in the lemon-juice or the essence of lemon. 
It will be improved by addin? the yellow 
rind of the lemon, erated so fine as not to 
be visible when boiled. If the lemon is 
put in too soon, all the taste will be boiled 
out. 

^ When it is quite done, butter a square 
tin pan and pour the mixture into it to cool. 

If you prefer it with ground nuts, roast 
a quart of them, and then shell and blanch 
them. Stir the ground-nuts into the mix- 
ture, a few minutes before you take it from * 
the fire. Stir them in gradually. In the 
same manner you may make it with al- 
monds. The almonds must be blanched, 
cut in pieces/and stirred in raw, when the 
molasses and sugar have just done boiling. 

If vou wish to make it yellow, take some 
out ot the tin pan while it is yet warm, and 
pull it out into a thick string between tlie 
thumb and fore-finger of both hands. Ex- 
tend your arms widely as you pull tlie candy 
back and forwards. By repeating this for 
a long time it will gradually become of a 
light yellow color, and of a spongy consist- 
ence. When it is quite yellow, roll it into 
sticks; twist two sticks together, and cut 
them ofi* smoothly at both ends. Or, you 
may variegate it by twisting together a 
stick that is quite yellow and one that, not 
having been so much pulled, still remains 
brown. 



OYSTERS. 



SPICED OYSTERS. 

Two hundred brge firesh oysters. 

Four table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar. 

A nutmeg, grated. ^ 

Hiree dozen of cloves, whole. 

Eight blades of mace, whole. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt if the oysters are 

fresh. 
Two tea-spoonfuls of whole allspice. 
As much cayenne pepper as will lie on the 

point of a knife. 

Put the oysters, with their liquor, into 
a large earthen pitcher. Add to tliem tlie 
vinegar and all the other ingredients. Stir 
all well together. Set them in the stove, 
or over a slow fire, keeping them covered. 
Take them off the fire several times, and 
stir them to the bottom. As soon as they 
boil completely they are sufficiently done; 
if they boil too long they will be hard. 

Pour them directly out of the pitcher 



into a pan, and set them away to cooL 
They must not be eaten till quite cold, or 
indeed till next day. 

If you wish to keep them a week, put a 
smaller quantity of spice, or they will taste 
too much of it by setting so long. Let 
them be well covered. 

Oysters in tlie shell may be kept all win- 
ter by laying them in a heap in the cellar, 
with ihe concave side upwards to hold in 
the liquor. Sprinkle them every day with 
strong salt and water, and then wilh Indian 
meal. Cover them with matting or an 
old carpet. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Open the oysters and strain the liquor. 
Put to the liquor some grated stale breadi 
and a little pepper and nutmeff, adding a 
glass of white wine. Boil the liquor with 
these ingredients, and then pour it scalding 



QTsxeas^ 



bot over the duh of raw oysten. Thia 
will cook them sufficiently. 
' Have ready some slices of buttered toast 
with the crust cut off. When the oysters 
era done, dip the toast in the liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Pour the oysters 
and liquor upoa the toast, and send them 
to table hot. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

Three pints of large fresh oysters. 

Two table-spoonfuls of butter, rolled in 

flour. 
A, bunch of sweet herbs. 
A saucer full of chopped celery. 
A quart of rich milk. 
Pepper to your taste. 

Take the liquor of three pints of oysters. 
Strain it, and set it on the fire. Put into 
it, pepper to your taste, two tablc-spoonfuls 
of butter roiled in flour, and a bunch of 
sweet marjoram and other pot-lierbs, with 
a saucer full of chopped celery. When it 
boils, add a quart of rich milk — and as 
soon as it boils again, take out the herbs, 
and put in the oysters just before you send 
it to table. Boiling them in the soup will 
shrivel them and destroy their taste. Leave 
in the celery. Toast several slices of bread. 
Cut them into small squares, and put them 
into the soup be£>re it goes to table. 



ANOTHER WAY OF STEWING 
OYSTERS. 

Strain all the liquor from the oysters, 
and thicken tlie liquor with stale bread 
grated (which is much better than flour) 
some whole pepper, and some miice. Grate 
■ome nutmeg into it. Boil the liquor.with- 
out the oysters, — adding a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 

Lay a slice of buttered toast in the bot- 
tom of a deep dish, and surround the sides 
with small slices cut into three corner or 
pointed pieces. All the crust must be cut 
off from the toast. 

Put the raw o^'sters into the dish of toast, 
and when the liquor has boiled hard, pour 
it scald iug hot over them. Cover the dish 
closely, and let it set for five minutes or 
more, before you send it to table. This 
will cook the oysters sufliciently, will swell 
them to a larger size, and cause them to 
retain more of their flavor tlian when stew- 
ed in tlie liquor. 

Take cafe not to make it too thick with, 
the grated breacT. 



FRIED OYSTERS* 

For frying, choose the largest and finest 
o3rster8. Beat some yolks of esgs, and 
mix with them grated bread, and a small 
quantily of beaten nutmeg and mace and a 
little sak. Having stirredjthis batter well, 
dip your oysters mto it, and fry them in 
lard, till they are of a light brown color. 
Take care not to do them too much. Serve 
them up hot. 

For grated bread, some substitute crack- 
ers pounded to a powder, and mixed with 
yolk of egg and spice. 



BAKED OR SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 

Grate a small loaf of stale-bread. But- 
ter a deep dish well, and cover the sides 
and bottom with bread crume. Put in 
half the oysters with a little mace and pep- 
per. Cover them with cnims and small 
bits of butler strewed over them. Thev 
put in tlie remainder of the oysters. Sea- 
son them. Cover diem as before with 
crums and butter. If tlie oysters are 
fresh, pour in a little of the liquor. If 
they are salt, substitute a little water. 
Bake tliera a very short time. You may 
cook them in the small scolloped dishes 
made for the purpose. 



OYSTER-SAUCE. 

When your oysters are opened, take care 
of all the liquor, and give them one boil 
in it. Tlien take the oystei-s out, i|iid put 
to the liquor three or four blades of mace. 
Add to it some melted butter, and some 
thick cream or rich milk. Put in your 
oysters and give them a boil. As bo<hi as 
they come to a boil, take them off the fire. 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Four hundred large <iresh oysters. 

A pint of vinegar. 

Eight spoonfuls of salt. 

A pint of white wine. 

Six table-spoonfuls of whole black pepper. 

Eight blades of mace. 

Strain the liquor of the oysters and boil 
it. Then pour it hot over the oysters, and 
let them lie in it about ten minutes. Then 
take tliem out, and cover them. Boil the 
liquor with the salt, pepper, mace, vinegar 
and wine. When cold, put the oysters in 
a close jar, and pour the liquor over them. 
Cover the jar very tight, and the >ysten 
will keep a long tiaie. 

If the oysters are salt, put no salt to tbs 
liquor. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



96 



TERRAPINS. 

Haring boiled yoar terrapins for ten 
minutes, take them out of the water and 
pall off the outer shell. Then boil them 
again, till the claws become tender. 

Afterwards take them out of the inner 
shell, and be careful not to break the gall, 
which mast be taken from the liver and 
thrown away: likewise throw away the 
spongy part; all the rest beinff fit to eat. 

Cut the terrapins into small pieces, put 
them into a stew-pan, witli a little salt, 
^■nmne pepper, and some butter. After 
^|p have stewed a few minutes in the but- 
^B^pour in a very small quantity of water, 
in the proportion of a wine-glass-full to 
each terrapin. 

When they have stewed about ten min- 
utes, add some butter rolled in flour, and 
a glass of white wine to each terrapin, and 
let them stew five minutes longer. Then 
take them from the fire. ■ 

Have ready some beaten yolk of egjg; 
(allowing one yolk for two terrapins) stir 
it in, cover the pan tightly, let it set for 
five or six minutes, then put it into a tur- 
een or deep dish and send it to table. 



A-LA-MODE BEEF. 

A round of fresh beef weighing from eight- 
een to twenty pounds. 

A pound of the fat of bacon or corned pork. 

The marrow from the^ 
bone of the beef, t , , . ., 

A qua^ of a pound > chopped together. 

of bee^suet, j 

Two bundles of pot herbs, parsley, thyme, 
small onions, &c. chopped fine. 

Two large bunches of ^ sufficient when 
sweet marjoram, [powdered to make 

Two bunches of sweet ffour table-spoon- 
basil, J fills of eaefa. 

Two large nutmegs, ) Yteousn to a now 

Half an ounce of cloves, c ^^^ *^ 

Half an ounce of mace, 

One lable-spoonful of salt. 

One table-spoonful of pepper. 

Two glasses of Madeira wine 



der. 



If your a-la-mode beef is to be eaten 
cold, prepare it three days before it is 
wanted. 

Take out the bone. Fasten up the open- 
ing with skewers, and tie the meat all 
round with tape. Rub it all over on both 
sides with salt. A large round of beef 
will be more tender than a small one. 

Chop the marrow and suet together. 
Pound the spice. Chop the pot-herbs very 
fine. Pick the sweet marjoram and sweet 
basil clean from the stalks, and rub the 
leaves to a powder. You must have at 
least four table-spoonfuls of each. Add the 



pepper and salt, and mix well together all 
the ingredients Uiat compose the seasoning. 

Cut tlie fat of the bacon or pork into 
pieces about a quarter of an inch thick 
and two inches long. With a sharp knife 
make deep incisions all over the round of 
beef and very near each other. Put first 
a little of the seasoning into each hole, 
then a slip of the bacon pressed down hard 
and covered with more seasoning. Pour 
a little wine into each hole. 
^ When you have thus stuffed the upper 
side of the beef, turn it over and stuff in 
the same manner the under side. If the 
round is very large, you will require a 
larger quantity of seasoning. 

Put It in a deep baking dish, pour over 
it some wine, cover it, and let it set till 
next morning. It will be much the better 
for lying all night in the seasoning. 

Next day put a little water in the dish, 
set it in a covered oven, and bake or stew 
it i^ently for twelve hours at least, or more 

}'f It is a large round. It will be much 
mproved by stewing it in lard. Let it re- 
main all night in the oven. 

If it is to be eaten hot at dinner, put it 
in to stew the evening before, and let it 
cook till dinner-time next day. Stir some 
wine and a beaten mg into the gravy. 

If brought to tanreold, cover it all over 
with green parsley, and stick a large bunch 
of something green in the centre. 

What is left will 



the next day. 



make an excellent hash 



A BONED TURKEY. 

A large turkey. 

Three sixpenny loaves of stale bread. 

One pound of fresh butter. 

Four eggs. 

One bunch of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, 

and little onions. 
Two bunches of sweet marjoram. 
Two bunches of sweet basil. 
Two nutmegs. > pounded 

Half an ounce of cloves^ > g^ " 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, ' 
A table-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spoonful of pepper. 

Skewers, tape, needle, and coarse thread 
mW be wanted. 

Grate the bread, and put the crusts in 
water to soften. Then break them up 
small into the pan of crumbled bread. Cut 
up a pound of butter in tlie pan of bread. 
Rub the herbs to powder, and have two 
table-spoonfuls of sueet marjoram and two 
of sweet basil, or more of each if the tur- 
key is very large. Chop the pot-herbs, 
and pound the spice. Then add the salt 
and pepper, and mix all the ingredients 
well together. Beat slightly four eggs, and 



HISCEIXAKEOUS. 



mix tbem with the leafloiiiqg and bread 
crums. 

After the turkejr is drawn, take a sharp 
kuife and, beffinninff at the wings, care- 
fdry separate the flesh from the bone, scrap- 
big it down as you go ; and avoid tearing 
or breaking th« skin. Next, loosen the 
flesh from the breast and back, and then 
from tlie thighs. It reouires great care 
and patience to do it nicely. When all the 
flesh is thus loosened, take the turkey by 
the neck, give it a pull, and the skeleton 
will come out entire from the flesh, as 
easily as you draw your hand out of a glove. 
Tlie flesh will then be a sliapeless mass. 
With a needlie and thread mend or sew up 
any holes that may be found in the skin. 

TUie up a handful of the seasoning, 
■queece it hard and proceed to stuff the 
turkey with it, beginning at the wings, 
Dext to the body, and then the thighs. 

If you stuff It properly, it will again 
assuaie its natural shape. Stuff it very 
bard. When all the stuffing is in, sew up 
the breast, and skewer the turkey into its 
proper form, so that it will look as if it had 
n^t been boned. 

Tie it round with tape and bake it three 
hours or more. Make a gravy of the gib- 
lets chopped, and emjijh it with some wine 
and an egg. 

If the turkey is to be eaten cold, drop 
spoonfuls of r«l currant jelly ail over it, 
and in the dish round it. 

A large fowl may be-boned and stuffed 
in the same manner. 



COLLARED PORK.. 
A leg of fresh pork, not large. 
Two table-spoonfuls of powdered sage. 
Two table-spoonfuls of "j 

sweet marioram, Inowdisred 

One table^^nful of ^Powderea. 

sweet basil, J 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, a 
Half an ounce of cloves, ? powdered. 

Two nutmegs, ' 

A bunch of pot-herbs, chopped small. 
A sixpenny loaf of stale bread, grated. 
Half a pound of butter, cut into the bread. 
Two eggs. 

A table-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spoonful of black pepper. 

Grate the bread, and having softened 
the crust in water, mix it with the cruins. 
Prepare all the other ingredients, and mix 
them well with the grated bread and egg. 

Take the bone out of a \e^ of pork, and 
rub the meat well on both sides with salt. 
Spread the seasoning thick all over the 
soM^t. Then roll it up very tightly and tie 
it round with tape. 

Put it into a aeep. dish with a 1it<ife wa- 



ona|ifc 



ter, and bake it two houni«^ If eaten he^t 
put an egg and some wine into the (praTj 
When cold, cut it down into round slices 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two large cold fowls, either boiled or 

roasted. 
The yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs. 
Half a pint of sweet oil. 
Half a pint of vinegar. 
A gill of mixed mustard. 
A small tea-spoonfiil of cavenne pepper. 
A small tea-spoonful of saft. 
Two larse heads, or four small 

fine celery. 

Cut the meat of the fowls firom the bones, 
in pieces not exceeding an inch in size. 

Cut the white part of the celery into 
pieces about an inch long. Mix the chick- 
en and celery well together. Cover tliera 
and set them away. 

With the back of a wooden spoon, mash 
the yolks of eggs till they are a perfectly 
smooth paste. Mix them with the ofj» 
vinegar, mustard, cayenne, and salt. Stir 
them for a long time, till they are tbor^ 
oughly mixed and quite smooth. The long- 
er they are stirred the better. When tins 
dressing is sufficiently mixed, cover it, and 
set it awa^. 

Five minutes before the salad is to be 
eaten pour the dressing over the chicken 
and celery, and mix all well together. If 
the dressing is pot on long before it is 
wanted, the salad wi|l be tough and hard. 

This salad is ver^excellent made^f cold 
turkey instead of chicken. ^^ 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take two large boiled lobsters. Extract 
all the meat from the shell, and cut it ap 
into very small pieces. 

FoMpbster salad, you must have lettuce 
instead of celery. Cut up the lettuce as 
small as possible. 

Make a dressing as for a chicken-salad, 
with the yolks of nine hard-boiled eg^s, 
half a pint of sweet oil, half a pint of vm- 
egar, a gill of mustard, a tea-spoonful of 
cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix 
all well together with a woodenfspoon. 

A few minutes before it is to be eaten, 
pour the dressing over the lobster and let 
tuce, and mix it very well. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Take a quart of fresh mushrooms. TeA 
them and cut off the stems. Season them 
with pepper and salt. Put tbem in a 
sauce-pan or skillet, with a lump of fresh 
butter the size of an egg, and sufficient 
cream or rich milk to cover them. Put on 
the Ud of the pan, and stew the mushfooon 



J 



MISCELLAI9E0US. 



37 



vbmit a quarter of an hoar, keqiiag them 
well coTered or the flavor will evaporate. 

When you take tliein off the fire, have 
ready one or two beaten eggs. Stir the 
eggs gradually into the stew, and send it 
to Ubie in a covered dish. 



TOMATA KETCHUP. 

Slice the tomata^. Put them in layers 
mto a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle every 
layer with salt. Let them stand in this 
state for twelve hours. Then put them 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle, and 
r them till they are quite soft. Pour 
nto a thin linen bag, and squeeze tlie 
from them. Season the liquor to 
your taste, with grated horse-radish, a little 
^rlic, some mace, and a few cloves. Boil 
It well with tliese ingredients — ^and, when 
cold, bottle it for use. 

PEACH CORDIAL. 
Take a peck of cling-stone peaches! 
■uch as come kite in the season, and are 
very juicy. Pare them, and cat them from 
the stones. Crack about half the stones 
and save the kernels. Leave the remaind- 
er of tlie stones whole, and mix them with 
the cut peaches; add also the kernels. 
Put the whole into a wide-mouthed demi- 
john, and pour on them two gallons of 
double-rectified whisky. Add three pounds 
of rock-sugar candy. Cork it tightly, and 
set it away for three months: then bottle 
it, and it will be fit fur use. It will be im- 
proved in cleames^a by c^ering the bottom 
of a siei^^ith blotting-paper (secured with 
pins) anlmraining the cordial through it. 



RASPBERRY CORDIAL. 

To each quart of raspberries allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Mash the raspbarries 
and strew the susar over them, having first 
pounded it sliffhtly, or cracked it with the 
rolling-pin. Let the raspberries and sugar 
aet tin next day, keeping them well cover- 
ed, then put them in a thin linen bag and 
Mueeze ont the juice with your hands. 
To every pint of juice allow a quart of 
double-rectifipd whisky. Cork it well, 
and set it away for use. It will be ready 
io a few days. 

Raspberry Vinegar (which, mixed with 
water, is* a pleasant and cooling beverage 
in warm weatlier) is made exiictly in the 
Mune manner as the cordial, only substitut- 
ing the best white vinegar for the whisky. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 
Take the ripest blackberries. Mash 
. them, put them in a linen bag and squeeze 
out the jttioe. To every ouart of juice al- 
low a poaqd of beaten loaf-sugar. Put the 



ragar into a lar^ preserving-kettle, and 
pour the juice on it. When it is all melted, 
set it on the fire, and boil it to a thin jelly. 
When cold, to every quart of juice allow a 
quart of brandv. Stir them well together, 
and bottle it for uee. It will be ready at 



CHERRY BOUNCE. 

Take a peck of morelh cherries, and a 
peck of black hearts. Stone the morelhw 
and crack the stones. Put all tlie cherries 
and the cracked stones into a demi-john, 
with three pounds of loaf-sugar slightly 
pounded or beaten. Poor in two gallons 
of double-rectified whisky. Cork Uie de- 
mi-john, and in six months the cherry* 
bounce wiU be fit to pour off and bottle lor 
use; but the oUer it is, the better. 



GINGER BEER. 

Pot into a kettle, two ounces of powder- 
ed ginger, (or more if it is not very strong,) 
half an ounce of cream of tartar, two brge 
lemons cut in slices, two pounds of broken 
loaf-sugar, and one gallon of soft water 
Simmer them over aslow fire for half an 
hour. When the liqiM>r is nearly cold, stir 
into it a large table-spoonful of the best 
yeast. After it has fermented, bottle it for 



YEAST. 

Have ready two quarts of boiling i , 

put into it a large handful of hops, and let 
them boil twenty minutes. Sift into a pan 
a pound and a half of flour. Strain the 
liquor firom the hops, and pour half of it 
over the flour. Let tiie other half of tha 
liquid stand till it is cool, and then pour it 
gradually into the pan of floor, mixfhg it 
well. Stir into it a large tea-cup full of 
l^ood yeast, (brewer's yeasi if you can get 
It.) rut it immediately into bottles, and 
cork it tightly. It will be fit for use in an 
hour. It win be much improved and keep 
longer, by putting into each bottle a tea- 
spoonfiil of pearl-ash. 



COLOURING FOR ICING, &e. 

To make a r§d eolorinfg for icing. 
Take twenty grains of cochineal powder, 
twenty grains of cream of tartar, ami twen- 
ty grains of powdered alum. Put tliem 
into a gill of cold soft water and boil it, 
very slowly till reduced to one half. Strain 
it through thin muslin, and corkit up for 
use. A very small quantity of tliis mixture 
will color ic^n^ of a beautiful pink. With 
pink icing* white nonpareils should be used 



# 



MONS. BUGARD'S 
FRENCH PRACTICAL TEACHER. 



Mons. B. F. BxJGARD, author of the " French Practical 
Translator," after devoting several years of intense study 
and labour, has produced a new French Grammar, which 
we think will tend, more than any other in present use, to 
induct pupils into the knowledge and structure of the French 
Language. 

From a practical examination of this new work, and 9d 
acquaintance with the author's talents and experience in 
teaching, we can confidently recommend " The French 
Practical Teacher" to all those who wish to acquire the 
language, either with or without an instructer, as one of the 
best manuals for the purpose ever written. 



RECOMMENBATZONS. 

* FRBifcff Practicai, Tbachbr. — Mons. B. F. Buqa.ro, author of the ** Frenetl 
Practical Translator,*' a work of (listinguUhed merit, has juRt given to the pubRo 
• A complete Grammar of the French Language, on the progressive prineipU : © 
prising two hundred and forty-four exercises, mostly written in the style of eonver- 
sation ;' to which is added a comprehenaive vocabulary of the words of the •>< 
ercisoB. 

* The plan of the work is ingenious and new. It differs from all grammars hitli- 
erto published, especiaUy in the order of the rules and composition of the exercises, 
in which not any part of speech is employed until its use has been fully stated 
and illustrated. One of the peculiarities of the work, and one of its excellenecn 
too, is, that the rules are ail numbered, knd the vords of the exercises have ovei 
them corresponding numbers, or the numbers of the rules to be referred to for thoii 
translation. This arrangement not only affords the student a sure and easy guide, 
but it obviates the necessity of directly committing the rules to memory ; and thus 
relieves him from a burden of no inconsiderable magnitude, the dread of encoanter* 
ing which has discouraged thousands from attempting the acquisition of this elegairt 
and fiishionable language. In his p»0gres8 through the exercises, he is so fireqaentfy 
under the necessity of referring to the rules, that he necessarily andprncHcoUy leartfi 
and retains them, without extra or unpleasant effort. To attain this object, the aiK 
thor was obliged to adopt a new classifieatton of certain words, such as «<on,ffla,iii«ss 
ton, &c. which in most grammars are called adjective pronouns, but which he has 
classed among the articles. We have not room to state the reasons which are urged 
in justification of this change. To our own mind they are entirely satisfactory, 
we believe will be generally so received. It has beetf adopted by the author aflei 
great deliberation, and as the fesult of eight yean' experience in teaching the 
language.' 



RECOMMENDATIONS. 



** We eonfldently commend the work to the attention of teacben end atodente. 
The adoption of it would be of mutual advantage, aa both would be relioTed of 
mneb unneceeeary and vexatious labor. The eommnnity, and eepecially that part 
of it who are engaged in the teaching or study of the language, are much indebted 
to Mons. BuGAao, not only for the present excellent work, but for his * Practical 
TVanriator,* indisputably the best work of its character ever presented to the Amer- 
ican public.'' Btutkor-Bia ^tar^m, md B^tUn Mkrrar^ Oct, 1838. 

FiBNCM PuACTicAL TaACBBa. — ^Tbc North American Review for October, 
1638, speaks of this work in high terms of recommendation. It will probably soon 
become the class-book in all our seminaries where the French Language is taught. 
The Review says : 

" We recommend this book to the attention of all teachers and students of the 
French Language. It is the heat of its kind that baa ever fallen in our way } and 
we should think it impossible for any one of tolerable capacity to go through it 
faithfully, without a very competent knowledge of French. The student is taken 
through a series of rules and exercises, in which no part of speech is employed, until 
its use has been fully stated and illustrated. The Bnles are numbered, and there 
are abundant references to them by figures in the Exercises. At the end of the 
book is a Vocabulary of all the words used in the Exercises, so that no other Dio> 
tionary is wanted in writing (hemk The whole plan is carried through with great 
care and fidelity. Fabrteando fit faher is the author's motto ; and he has produced a 
work calculated, we think, to facilitate, in no ordinary degree, the student's labour 
in acquiring the French Language." Jfortk Amer. Rev. 



' BuoABD'sFRnivcK Teacheb. — Munroe& Francis, of Boston, have joiit published 
a work, entitled, * The French Practical Teacher.' There are a number of good 
F^nch Grammars extant — indeed good books on almost every study abound among 
us — but afVer having carefully fxttmiufd tliid work of Mr. Bugard, we are strongly 
impressed in its fiivor — it appearing to us decidedly superior to any French Grammar 
we have seen. The plan of it ii^ in a groat degree original — nnd we are induced to 
believe, that it will take the place ©t'other Giammars of the French langunge. With 
this work, an.i Mr. Bugard's Practical Translator, a person may easily master the 
French language without any other assistant." — Mercantile Jvumalt Oct. 17, 1838. 



From Profeaeor Eltoh, Providencf, R. I. 
DcAB Sia, Brown University, Nov. 8th, T838. 

I have examined with much pleasure your " Fbekch Practical Tkachss," and 
consider it as decidedly superior to the French Grammars generally used. It is ex- 
ecuted throughout with judgment and ability ; the arrangement is lucid and philo- 
sophical, the rules are developed with perspicuity, and the exercises are highly ap- 
propriate and admirably adapted to the practical purposes of instruction. I trust 
the work will meet with a favorable reception from the public. 

Very respectfully, yours, ROMEO ELTON. 

Mane. B. F. Bugard. 

P. 8. I wished to examine your Grammar fully before I gave a recommendatioa,* 
or I should have written yon earlier. R. E. 



MONS. BUGARD'S 
PRACTICAL TRANSLATOR. 



TO STUDENTS AND TEACHERS OP THE 
FRENCH LANGUAGE. 

French Practical Translator ; oTy easy method of learning to translate 
French into English, Containing i. a treatise on French pronuncia- 
tion i II. the general principles for the use of the parts of speech j and 
directions for finding them in any dictionary ; in. a coilectidn of in- 
teresting exercises, the difficulties of rvhich are calctdated gradually 
to increase rvith the knowledge of students ; iv. a vocabulary of the 
different words used in the exercises. Second Edition. 1837. 

This is the title of a book intended to teach how to 
translate French into English, the plan of which is en- 
tirely new, and calculated to promote the improvement 
of those who use it, more than any that has been offered 
to the public. With it students can at first commence 
the translation of the exercises it contains, after having 
merely read the French Grammar, which they practically 
learn in translating, without being obliged to commit it 
to memory. 

The rapid sale of its first edition shows evidently that 
the want of such a book must have been felt, and that it 
has proved to be very acceptable, as may be seen from 
the following recommendations, which we respectfully 
present to the public with its second edition. 



aSCOIMElMKSlXrDATZOSrS 

OP THE NEW PKACTICAL TRANSLATOR. 

Boston, May 5, 1835. 

SlB, 

I have examined the Rheetii you pnt into my hand^, and am happy to say, that f 
think your work will be found, both by teachers and pupils, a valuable auxiliary 
in the acquisition of the French language. The manner in which you have 
obviated tlie principal difficulties in the firAt lessons, and the general plan of the 
work, make it a very useful first bonk for those who are old enough to study with 
some degree of judgment and discrimination. 

Very respectfully, yours, T. B, HAYWARD. 

Jlf«fU. Bugard. 



RECOMMENDATIONS. 



Temple-place, May 6, t83S. 
DaAB SiB| 

I have examined the aheeta of the New Praetieal Tranalator, and belieTe that 
the work will be very uaefUl aa an iotrodoetion to the translating French into 
Eogliah, as it afforda an eaay explanation of moat of the difficulties that an apt to 
embarraaa beginners. 

Yoora, reapectiiilly, GEO. B. EMERSON. 

MiSM. Jluf «nk 



Boston, May 8th, 1835. 
DsAa Sim, 

I h#re long fell the want of a " First. Book'* for beginners in (lie French Lan- 
guage, upon the progressive principles which yon have adopted, and shall show 
bow sincere I am in this recommendation of your undertaking, by the immediate 
introduction of the '* New Practical Translator" into my school. 

Respectfully yours, GEORGE FOWLE, 

Teacher of the Boys* Monitorial SchooL 
Mens. Jyiijf<ini> 



Sir, 



Boston, May 8th, 1835. 



I have looked over the sheets of yoor ** New Prart' :al Translator," and am 
mneh pleased both with the plan of the work, and with the style of its execution, 
ft must form a valuable accession to the means already within the reach of the 
young for acquiring a knowledge of the French Language ; and, if it finds with 
the public that measure of favour which it merits, I tun satisfied that you will 
have no cause to complain that your labours, iu this department of ioslruction, 
have not been « ill received or well rewarded. 

Very respectfully, yr«. JOHN PIERPONT. 

M«tu. Bugard, 



Boston, May 11, 1835. 
D«AR Sir, 

I have examined attentively the plan of yonr << Now Practical Translator,*' and, 
to some extent, the mode in which the plan has bsnn executed. The work appears 
to me to be well adapted to ptomote the improvement of those who are commeno* 
ing the study of the French Language. The real ditficulties, iu the "progress of 
the student, be is lurnishsd with the means of (>vcrcomingf while such as will 
yield to moderate industry, he is judiciously leA to suru>ount by his own cfibrts. 
Very respectfully, your IritMid, h'». A. ANDREWS. 

Mmu. B, F. Bugard. 

Brown ITriiveraity, May 11th, 1835. 
r have examined, with caro, ** Tho New Practical Translator," by Mr. Bugard. 
The plan and execution-i»f the author appear to me juiUcions, and I am acquainted 
with no elementary work, so vireil adapted for communicating a knowledge of the 
French language. ROMEO ELTON, 

Prof, of the Latin and Greek Languages and Literature. 



i 



ir 



"^ 



