i 



i 



lllllllllillil 




CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924029685728 



Cornell University Library 
AGIOS .C61 



Amercan pocket library of useful knowie 



olin 




3 1924 029 685 728 




GMrgfl Wsetajngtoa. 



^ THE "^ 




AMERICAN 



POCKET LIBRARY 




National Galleiy and Patent Office at Washington.— Principal Hall 273 feet long, es feet wide, and 30 feet bigh. 

OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE. 

COMPILED BY THOMAS C. CLARKE, PHILADELPHIA. 




L..gram7igs by T. H. Mumfom, James Monfv... 



Entered according to Jict of Congress, in the year 1841, by THOMMS C. CZat^Cfi, 
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania* 



stereotyped by J. Fagan, 19 St. James Street. 






AMERICAN POCKET LIBRARY. 



AGRICULTURE, 



AxjTTSORniES. — Judge Buel, Sir Humphry Davy, Professor Colmaiif Pedder, 
Biddle, J. Quincyy J. S. Skinner^ and others ; Papers of the Philadelphia jSgricul' 
tural Society, and the principal Agricultural papers and magazines qf the day. 



IMPORTANCE OF AGRICULTURE. 

Tbe task of working improvement dd the earth ia 
much more delightful than all tbe vaioglory which do 
be acquired hy ravaging it with the most uoioterrupted 
career of conqueata." — JVashinston. 

The preat business of our countn/ is agriciiUure. 
Because it/e«i> uB,and furDishes \hemtUerials for our 
clothing; it gives employment to five-sixths of our 
population ; it ia the primary source of iudividual and 
national wealth; it ia the Dursiag mother of mauufac- 
tures and commerce; it ia essential to national inde- 
penA:nce. Agriculture is worthy the most liberal 
patronage of our governmeots, slate and national ; it 
ought to be eDligbteued by a better (and thorough) edu- 
cation of the agricultural clasa. Agriculture, maoufac- 
turei, commerce, stand together ; but they stand toge- 
ther like pillars in a duster, the largest in the centre, 
and (hat largest ia agriculture. We live in a country 
of amall farms; a country, in which men cultivate 
\vilh.their own hands, their own fee-simple acres; 
drawing not only their subsistence, but also their spirit 
of independence, and manly freedom from ihe ground 
they plough. They are at 'once ita owners, its culti- 
vators, and ita defenders. And whatever else may be 
undervalued, oc overlooked, let ua never forget, that 
Ihe cultivation of Ihe earib is the most important la- 
bour of man. Man, without the cultivation of the 
earth, is, in all countries, a savage. When tillage be- 
gins, other arts follow. The farmera, therefore, are 
the founders of human civilization. If there lives the 
man who may eat his bread with a conscience at peace, 
it is the man who has brought that bread out of the 
earth by hia own honest industry. The profession of 
agriculture brings with it none of those agitating pas- 
sions which are fatal to peace, or to the enjoyment 
even of tbe common blessings of life: it presents few 
temptations to vicious indulgence; it is favourable to 
health and to long life; to habits of industry and fru- 
gality ; to temperance and self-government ; to Ihe cul- 
tivation of the domestic virtues ; and to Ihe calm and 
delicious enjoyments of domestic pleasures in all their 
purity and fulness! 



Measures (a Subalilule).— A box 24 inchea by 16 in. 
square and 28 in. deep, will contain a barrel. A bojt 
16 inches by tti 8-10 in. square, and 8 inches deep, will 
contain a bushel. A box 8 inches by 8 4-10 in. square, 
and 8 inches deep, will contain one peck. A box 4 
mches by 4 in. square, and 4 2-10 inches deep, will 
contam one quart. 



IMPORTANCE OF AGRICULTURAL 
PAPERS. 

A good agricultural paper, contribated to by praeti* 
cal and scientific farmera, will be of service in many 
points of view. It is a storehouse of agricultural know- 
ledge, from which farmers may always draw some- 
thing new and serviceable. For its contents are made 
up of the best opinions and best practices, and accurate 
experiments of the best farmers of the world com- 
bined. 

The leading object, indeed, in the publication of an 
agricultural paper, is to afford to farmers a common 
medium through which to impart and receive instroc- 
tion. Amongst the most intelligent farmers in the 
land are always found the best patrons of agricullnral 
newspapers : where the land is in the highest state of 
cultivation, and where the domestic economy is all 
regulated in perfect order, you will invariably find ag- 
ricultural newspapers, and intelligence to appreciate 
them : but they are seldom met with, where neglect 
and ignorance prevail I Some farmers may fall for 
want of suflScient capital, but more for want of sufG- 
cient knowledge. There is no class who place more 
entire reliance on their skill than farmera, yet no one 
who is acquainted with the general agriculture of the 
country, will assert that it has yet reached the perfec- 
tion of which it ia susceptible. Tbe intent of cultiva- 
tion is to obtain the greatest possible amount of produce 
from the soil ; the farmer's object being to raise it by 
such means as will afford him the largest profit with 
the least labour ; and there can be no doubt, that the 
more scientifically he proceeds, the more effectually 
will both objects be gained. 

There is not a subject which abflolulely admits of a 
greater improvement than the cultivation of the soil : 
vast improvements are in progress, and will yet be 
made to an almost infinite extent ; (he slumbering en- 
ergies of the farmer are awakening up, and agricul- 
ture, the broad foundation of a nation's prosperity, Is 
unmanlling some of the brightest features of her hidden 
glory! 

EncowragB your Agricultural Papers. 



Musty Grain is mnde sweet by putting it in boiling 
water, (double the quantity of grain^, letling it cool in 
tbe water, and then dry it well. Skim the waler. 

A single Weed may di^w out tbe nourishment that 
would have given fulness to half-a-dozen ears. To be 
free from taxes, is far less important than to be free 
from weeds. 

_ 



AGRICULTURE. 



From the Address o/McAdoi ftddZe, £sg., before the 
PhUadelphia Agricultural Society, Oct. 1S40. 
Besides lime and other enrictiing aubslances, the 
cost of the mere animal manureg applied to the aoil of 
Eo^land, amounts to three hundred millions of dol- 
lars ; being mora than the value of (he whole of its 
foreign commerce. Tet the grateful soil yields back 
viih interest all that is thus lavished upon it. And so 
it would do here, if we would only trust the earth 
with any portion of oor capital. But this we rarely 
do. A tarmer who has made any money qieods it not 
in his business, but in some other occupation. He buys 
more land when he ought to buy more manure ; or he 
puts out his money in some joint stock company, to 
convert sunshine into moonshine— or he buys shares in 
some gold mine or lead mine. Rely upon it, our 
richest mine is the barn-yard, and that whatever 
temptations stocks or shares may ofTer, the best invest' 
ment for a farmer is live stock and plough-sharea, 
• ««#*» 

No soil can withstand a succession of grain crops ; 
and instead of letting it lie fallow in order to recruit 
from its exhaustion, as was the old plan, the better 
practice now is to plant in the same field a crop of 
•roots. These draw their nourishment fkvm a lower 
r^ion thui tiie grain crops do ; they derive a great 
part of their fix)d from the atmosphere, by their large 
leaves, which at the same time shelter the soil tiom 
the extreme beats ; they provide a fresh and juicy food 
for cattle during the winter, thus eoabling us to keep a 
large stock, which, in addition to the profit on them, 
furnish abundant manure with which to return to the 
grain crops. Now this should be our effort— more 
roots— more cattle— more manure— then more grain. 

All these improvements which may adorn or benefit 
our Ctou, are recommended to us not only by our own 
individual interests, but by the higher sentiment of our 
duty to the country. This ia esseotialty a nation of 
farmers. No where else is so large a portion of the 
community engaged in fanning ; no where else are (he 
coltivalors of the earth more independent or so power- 
ful. One would think that in Europe the great busi' 
nesB of life was to put each other to death ; for so large 
a proportion of men are drawn from the walks of pro- 
ductive industry and trained to no other occupation ex- 
cept to shoot foreigners aitoaya, and their own coun- 
Irymen occanoually ; while here, (he whole energy of 
all the oationisdireeted with intense force upon peace- 
ful labour. A strange spectacle this, of one, and one 
only, unarmed nation on the face of the earth ! There 
is abroad a wild straggle between existing authorities 
aad popular preteniiona, and oat own example is the 
oommon theme of applause or denunciation. It is the 
more important then ,for the farmers of this country 
to be (rue to their own principles. The soil is theirs— 
(he government is theirs— and on them depends mainly 
tlie continuance of (heir system. That system is, that 
enli|ffatened opinion, and the domestic lies are more 
«tiible guarantees of social tranquillity (ban mere force, 
and (ha( the government of the plough is safer, nnd, 
when there is Uied. stronger than the government of 
ebenroid. 



IMFOE-TANT FACTS. 
A spot of land which, when pastured upon, will 
yield sufficient food for only one head, will abuncUintly 
maintain four head of cattle in the stable, if the crop 
be mown at aproper time and given to the cattle in 
proper order. The soiling yields at least three times 
Ihe quantity of manure from the same number of cat- 
tle ; and (he best and most efiicacious summer manure 
is made in the stable, and carried to the fields at the 
most proper period of its fermentation. The cattle, 
when used to soiling, will yield a much greater quan- 
tity of milk, and increase &Bter in weight while fatten- 
ing than when they roam the fields, and they are less 
liable to accidents— do not suffer by (he heat, fliee or 
'.Duects, and are not affected by the weather, scaping 
also many disorders to which cattle always abroad are 
liable. Each head of cattle fed in the stable, if plenli* 
fully littered, yields annually uxteea large double cart- 
loads of dung." 



A visiter to the farm of Josiah Qulney, quoted in the 
Farmers' Cabinet, says:— 

His faim is extensive, and surrounded by a flourish- 
ing hawthorn hedge, but there is not an interior fence 
on the premises ; the whole presents a tingle field, de- 
voted to all the various purposes of agriculture ; no 
part of it is allotted to pasture, properly speaking, as 
his cattle are fed in their stalls, and are never suffered 
to roam over the fields ; and the advantages of this sys- 
tem are thus given — formerly, there were seven miles 
of interior fences to be kept in repair, but by keeping (he 
cattle up, the whole of this expense ii saved : former- 
ly, sixty acres of this farm were devoted to pasturage, 
twt now, a greater number of cattle by one-third, are 
kept on the products of twenty acres, and 1 never saw 
cattle in belter condition. The saving by these means 
ia enormous, and the immense advantages arising from 
it too apparent to be dweH upon. During the summer, 
Ihe cattle are fed upon grass, green oats or barley, cut 
(he day before, and suffered to wilt in the sun, and the 
manure which is thus saved will more than pay for the 
extra expense and troutde. The farm is most highly 
cultivated, and every kind of grain and vegetables have 
a place. 

Near London, it is the custom to sow large quantities 
of oats, to be cut green for stall^^bedin^ the milk-cows 
these are always sown on land most highly manured 
for the purpose, with four, aod sometimes five bushels 
of seed per acre ; the yield is prodigious, and is found 
to be one of (he most valuable crops that can be grown, 
coming off the land in time for a full crop of turnips 
for the winter, or of late potatoes^ 



I^ncei. Around each post hill the earth, to carry 
off (he water, and chair (he end a few inches above 
the surface. Cedar fences last about 15 years, which 
should lead owners to Inquiro where the fences are to 
come from hereafter. 

Maaivre. — "Every farmer can double the quantity of 
his domestic or yard manure, with scarcely any ad* 
dilional expense. At least fifty per oent, of the nutri- 
tive properties of yard manure are lost by drenching of 
rains, excessive fermentations, and injurioua appUca* 
tion to soil. 



4 



AGRICULTURE, 



MAWUKES, 
Under the improved system of a rotallon of crops, 
root culture, and alternatioD of grass and grain, com- 
bined wilh yard and stall-feeding of slieep and cattle, 
the quantity of manure produced on the farms has in 
many instances been quadrupled, and the ameliontlion 
of the soil has been in the same proportion. 

Ship loads of bones have been carried from this 
country to Europe to be crushed and used as bone-dust 
in fertilizing their soils ; and we have been compelled 
to purchase, at exorbitant prices, of those nations, the 
wheat and other grain, that this same manure would 
have produced at home, and at the same lime have lost 
to our farms the fertilily it would have imparted. 

Scrapings of streets, leached a^hea, lime, refuse from 
skin, leather and soap boilers' shops, slaughter houses, 
bone;:, weeds, salt, and any kind of animal or vegetable 
substanees, by the addition of earth, may be largely in- 
creased ioquaulily and made to enrich aad fertilize the 
soil. 

But whatever improvements or discoveries may be 
made, it seems clear that the farmer for manure must 
rely mainly on his stables and yards, and his study 
should be to render these most efficient and available. 
One main object should be to prevent the escape of the 
liquid and volatile parts of the manure, as experience 
proves that these are the most active in exciting or 
supplying plants with food and thus accelerating their 
growth. The yards and the stables should be pro- 
vided with litter, such as straw, hay, leaves, weeds, 
&c., with vegetable mould or muck, with the wash nf 
roads or the overflowing of streams, in sufficient quan- 
tities to absorb and retain the urine and other liquid 
pari!) of the manure, and where these cannot be ob- 
tained, common earth or dry sand will be found of great 
utility in preventing the loss which must ensue where 
these parts of the manure are allowed to escape from 
the yard. If when the farmer cleans out his yards, he 
were to cover tbem with a hundred loads of vegetable 
or absorbent earth, he would find in the following 
year a ^ealer number of loads of the most valuable 
manure, the greater part of which, without such pre- 
caution, would have been wholly lost. 

Rotted manure may afford at times more benefit to 
a particular crop, or may be more conveniently applied 
to some crops ; But as a general rule, manure should 
be rotted in the ground where it is wanted. Some 
crops are rarely Injured by any quantity that can be 
given tbem, as corn, potatoes, and ^roots generally ; of 
course such should have the advantage of the first pro- 
cess of decomposition in the manure, while jte after 
effect is reserved for the grains and grasses. 

The great object in the application of manure should 
be, to make it afford as much soluble matter as possi- 
ble to the roots of the plant ; and that in a slmo and 
gradual manner, so that it may be entirely consumed 
in forming its sap and organized parts. 

At) green nuxulent plants contain Baccha.rine mu- 
cilaginous matter,' with woody fibre, and readily fer- 
ment. They cannot, therefore, if intended for ma- 
nure, be used too soon after their death, 



suffering them to remain for a few moDths, (heir i)» 
composition would impregnate the soil with s«duble 
malters, so as to render it an excellent manure, and by 
mixing a little fresh quick -lime with i( at the time of 
its removal, the disagreeable effluvia would be in a 
great measure destroyed ; and it might be applied in 
the same way as any other manure to crops. 

Green vegetahles^ when put under the soil snd aub- 
mitted to the process of decomposition, arc efficacious 
in restoring exhausted soils. Buckwheat and clover 
are striking instances of (his power m green crops io 
fertilize 3otl3,.and both have been extensively med fur 
this purpose. 



PLOUGHmCJ. 

Much time and labonr is saved id pTougbing long in- 
stead of short ridges. For instance, suppose the ridges 
are 78 yards long, four hours and thirty-nine minnles 
are spent in turnings in a day's work of eight hours! 
whereas, if the ridges are 274 yards long, one hour and 
nineteen minutes are sufficient in (he same length of 
time. 

Plough deep. Let a farmer examine the extent and 
depth to which the roots of grain, in a loose and 
favourable soil, will spread, and he will cease to won- 
der at the failure of a crop where the subsoil has never 
been stirred by the plough. 

Small fibrous roots of vegetation extend to a depth, 
where the soil is loose and deep ; and where vegetables 
thus take root they are much less affected by drought, ■ 
The soil being turned up to the action of the bub and 
air, becomes enlivened, and better fitted for producing 
vegetation. An acre of land yielding a ton of hay, at 
the usual season of ploughing greensward contains 
more than twelve tons of vegetable matter, consisting 
of the roots and tops of grass, and other vegetable re- 
mains upon the surface. Such a method of ploughing, 
then, as will be best calculated to secure for the benefit 
of the crop, this mass of enriching substance, the farm- 
er should not hesitate to adopt. By completely invert- 
ing the sward, and laying it as flat and soiooth as the 
nature of the ground will admit, and then cultivating 
without disturbing the sod, with the application of a 
dr^sing of compost, land may not only be kept in 
heart, but wonderfully improved. 

The Ploush. —By so placing the Multer as to form 
an acute angle with the plane of the share, on the land 
side, the beam is bronght more directly over tbe centre 
of the plough, as is the case with Frouty & Mears' im- 
proved plough, and thereby the power necessary to 
move it, is applied more directly to the centre of re- 
sistance, and the force required to move it, and over- 
tbis resistance, is of course less than when a[H 
plied, as in other ploughs, on one side. 

The difference in the force required for ploughs now 
in use, has been ascertained to be 100 per cent, ; show- 
ing the great importance of its structure. The work 
which one team of horses or one yoke of oxen can 



By covering dead animals with five or six times perform at one plough, will require two yoke at 
their bulk of soil, mixed with one part of lime, and [ another ! 



AGRICULTURE. 



GRAmS. 
General Remarhs, 

The compoQtids id vegetables really nutritive, are 
veiy few ; farttia, or the pure matter of starch, glu- 
ten, sugar, vegetable jelly, oil and extract. Of these 
the most nutritive is gluten, vrhich approacbeB nearest 
in its nature to aDini:il matter, and which is the sub- 
stance that gives to wheat tis superiority over evtty 
other gndD. 

There is a particniar period tCt tohich each species 
of seed oaght to be soiumt in order to bring the plants 
to a perfect state of ripeness. 

The condition of the land is, in fact, the best guide ; 
fbr, if it be in a mellow state, between drought and 
moisture, tbe seed may be pat io with -conGdeDce. 
Some kinds, however, prefer a dry and warm mil ; 
others, that which is more humid and tenacious. Thus, 
barley, lye, and buckwheat, succeed best on the for- 
mer ; and wheat and oats on the latter. 

TbiBdepth at uohich seed should be soum is a. matter 
of nicety, as well aa of importance. If too deeply bu- 
ried, germioatioD is impedel, atA may be altogether 
prevented ; while, if sown too shallow, sufficient moist- 
ore is not left in the -torface to afford nourisbmeat to 
the roots of (he plaats. 

The depth at which seed ought to be placed must, 
therefore, be regulated by the nature of the soil. If 
ati^ more moderate covering should be used (ban if 
^ight and porous ; wheat, bariey, and oats also require 
more than rye or buckwheat ; but, except in a few in- 
stances, trom one and a half to three inches, is in every 
case, the lowest to which it should be carried. 

Seed should t>e selected from the earliest and most 
perfect growth of the preceding year. Too much at* 
tentioo cannot be t}eatowed on this part of the opera* 
tion, as every kind of seed will produce its like. Late 
sowing requires one-third more grain to tbe acre, than 
if put in early. Land, naturally very rich and too 
highly manured, is apt to cause during the hot season 
of summer a too rapid growth of the strawj at the ex- 
pense of the seed. 

Wheat. 

The white are superior in (he quality of their pro- 
duce; the red are the more hardy ; and in general, the 
thin and smooth-chaffed are preferred to the woolly 
and thick chaffed. 

The produce of wheat sown in spring acquires the 
habit of coming mocb sooner to maturity, than the 
produce of that sown in autumn. Hence the farmer, 
when he sows tvheat in spring, should sow the produce 
of that which had been already sown in spring, and 
not tbe produce of that whioh bad been sown in 



This change in the habit of ripening, though it may 
at fiiat view appear somewhat singular, fakes place in 
alltbecereal grasses, and also in many other cultivated 
jtTants. The minor varieties of any species of wheat, 
nmder given conditions, will remain unchanged for an 
indefinite period J under other circumstances, however, 
they degenerate — and hence, particular kinds that were 
once valued, have now ceased to be so. 

The soils of the lights- class are tbe best suited to 
wheat ; and it is an error in practice to force the pro* 



duction of wheat on soils, and under circumstances 
which are better suited to the production of the other 
grains. 

No wheat, however clean or beautiful, should be 
sown without being soaked 12 hours in a pickle of 
strong ley, brine strong enough to float an egg, or lime 
water, and after being drained, should be rolled in pow- 
dered lime* 

As the wheat crap generally receives no afler-culture, 
the soil should be brought into as fine condition us pos- 
sible. Manuring and thorough culture are indispen- 
sable. 

If it' be desirable to sow wheat after a fallow crop of 
^rye, oats, &c., tbe land should be immediately plough- 
ed or thoroughly harrowed after it is cleared— then one 
good ploughing with sufficient harrowing is a good 
preparation fbr the seed. 

As a brge crop cannot be sowed in a few days, it is 
better to begin a fortnight too early than a week too 
late. 

Two bush^ of seed to the acre of winter wheat, is 
not too much: less (ban six or seven pecks should never 
be sown. 

By sowing too fbin, the growth of weeds is enoon- 
raged to the great detriment of the growing crop and 
the loss Of the owner. 

Floughing in wheat is best, especially on worn land. 
The depth at which tbe seed is buried is more regular, 
ani gives the young plants a stronger hold on tbe soil. 

Com. 

As a general rule it may be laid down that any crop 
which matures so large a quantity of seed, must exhaust 
the fertility of a soil much more (ban a crop which 
does not produce seed, such aa the root crops. 

There is probably no other crop that produces so 
jnuch nourishment for man and beast as this does. It 
was tbe opioion of " Arator," that it was " meal, mea- 
dow, and manure," And the manure which might be 
made from the fodder that is produced, if returned 
again to tbe soil from which it was taken, would keep 
it in a constant state of fertility, and in fact increase it 
fh)m year to year. 

To Plant, plough well in the foil and early in the 
spring. Manure and harrow well. Select fivm the 
best stalks large sound ears — throw out the small, ill- 
ahaped grains from each end. Soak in strong liquid of 
rich manure 12 hours. Put four grains in hills four 
feet apart each way. Cover one and a half inches 
deep, and press down with foot or hoe. Apply leached 
ashes or plaster, after the com is up. Use the cultiva- 
tor instead of the plough, which cuts the roots and 
makes them bleed— besides, all that is now needed is 
to keep the ground loose, well pulverized and free 
from weeds. 

Tbe ravages of the wire-worm may be stopped by 
slacked stone lime. 

Of all (he grains, com is the most valuable, taking 
into view quantity and price. Soaking the seed in a 
solution of saltpetre keeps off the worm and largely 
increases the crop. 

Topping the stalks diminishes the grain from 6 to 8 
bushels the acre, without a corresponding increase Of 
fodder. 

Grind com in tbe ear for feeding. Fare com meal . 
does not appear sufficiently to distend the stomach to 



6 



AGRICULTURE. 



brings ioto exercise its digeslive Tacultieg Tully, without 
lahJDg so mucb as to clog and impair ilii fuactioDs 
eveDtually. For tbis reasoo, a mixture of less Dutri< 
live materials is desirable^ and one of our most suc- 
cessful feeders of pork lias assured us, that he always 
mixed oats with bis corn, ia (he proportion of one- 
fourth, previous to grinding, and thinks he should find 
a profit in exchanging corn for oals, bushel for buahel, 
rather than feed (he former to bis pigs clear. The cab, 
possessing nulriment in itself, makes about the requi- 
site mixture with the grain, and bence is of great value 
for (he purpose of feeding. 

Id any dis(rict where Indian com is extensively 
grown, a miller would find il for his interest to attach 
a cob-cracker to his machinery, as the farmers would 
lind themselves well repaid by the great saving and 
superiority of the meal so made, for feeding. 



SEEDINS. 

Ofall the practices constituting good biisbandry, none 
are more replete with beneficial eOects, and which bet- 
ter repay the outlay, than that of seeding. It has be< 
come an established practice with good farmers to seed 
frequently with clover and timothy. 

The natural grasses yield less of quantity and nutri- 
ment than either clover or timothy, and some others of 
more recent introduction. 

Independent of this, i(B fertilizing properties to the 
soil must be considered. Whereas, grounds not seed- 
ed, by being too much exposed, soon become of so com- 
pact a nature as to render them in a degree impervious 
to either heat or moisture, without which they cannot 
be capable of (he lcaB( productiveness. 

Autumn is deemed the best time for sowing timotb]', 
and the spriug for clover. 



ALTERNATE CROPS. 
The summer and winter food must have a due pro- 
portion to each other, and the fields of grain are not to 
exceed the fields of meliorating crops,— these preserve 
(be soil, as well as produce crops ; but grain reduces 
the soil in producing the crops. Aim at income from 
live stock, which tmjwoue*, rather than from grain, 
which impoverishes your land, 

SAVING CLOVER SEED. 

The difTiculties of saving the seed are imaginary; 
the process is simple and easy. After the clover field 
has been cut or grazed, let the second crop come on. 

The second crop produces more seed than the first, 
and hence the economy of first cutting or grazing 
the field ; though from that cut for hay, a careful 
husbandman might easily save sufficient seed for 
his own USB. Mow when about two-thirds of the 
heads have turned brown, because, if cut sooner, too 
many seeds are unripe, and if later, too many shatter 
out of the beads la cradling and handling. 



POTATOES. 

Potatoes in general afford from one-fifth to one-se- 
venth of their weight of dry starch. 

One-fourth part of the weight of the potatoe at least 
may be considered as nutritive matter. 



The best potatoes are heavier than the inferior vari- 
eties. 

The American Fanner says : For some seasons past, 
I have only planted the top eyes, and I have the best 
crop and the driest potatoes in the country. After the 
lop is cut off, the remainder keeps better and longer 
fit for use. If housekeepers in (owns were to preserve 
the cuttings of the tops of their potatoes, there would 
be sufiicient to plant all the country, without the cost 
of a cent for seed ! 

JVejeruing-/>ofafou.— Potatoes should bedug during 
dry weather. They should be exposed as short a time 
as possible to the light, as it always injures their quality 
for whatever use they are intended. They should be 
kept in a state similar tu (bat before they are dug,— 
that is, secure from air and light, with a Blight degree 
of moisture to prevent withering, and a temperature so 
low as to keep them from vegetating. The difference 
in the quality caused by good and bad keeping m very 
rarely appreciated. 

Jn planting, have a good supply of rich earth 
around; but elevate the hilbas little as possible after 
planting, in order to leave the tubers to grow at the 
depth which they choose for themselves. Besides, a. 
more even surface a better adapted to obtain a supply 
of moisture, by admitting the rain, &c. The distance 
of the hills should be governed by the space occupied 
by the tops ; for much of the nutriment of vegetables 
is taken trom the air, and the tops should therefore be 
allowed to expand. 

STOCK. 
Treat Domeatic Animals kindly and tenderly. 

Domestic animals ofall kinds, from a horse down to 
a chicken, should he treated with gentleness and mild- 
ness ; men or boys who are rash and bad-tempered, 
ought not to be permitted to have charge of them or to 
interfere with their management. Animals that are 
kept in constant fear of suffering never thrive well, 
and they often become vicious and intractable by un- 
kind and cruel treatment. 

Keep Stock in good condition. 

An animal may be kept abort of food in the latter 
part of (be fall or first of winter, at a small saving of 
food, but at a loss in the condition of the animal. II is 
like salting a hog with a pound of salt — a saving of 
salt but loss of bacon. One dollar saved by short keep- 
ing of animals, will be a loss of five dollars. It will 
cost more through the winter, and the profit from the 
animals, either in growth or milk, will be lost. 

Provide comfortable sheds and stables. Remember 
that a want of comfort is always a waste of Jlesh, 
Give a sufficiency of food and drink, with great regu- 
larity. A meal ten minutes later than the usual lime, 
causes the animal to fret, and fretting lessens flesh. 
Most animals will drink several times a day, and 
should therefore have it as often as they want il. 
Tbey should have plenty of clean litter as often as 
needed. With such management there will be an al- 
most incredible saving of food. 

IHght stables should always be ventilated. The 
breath and manure from animals always causes impure 



AGRICULTURE. 



Coaa'se hay and straw axe readily eaten by cattle, 
wbcn brine is sprinkled upon them, 

Com^taik fodder abould alwava be cut or chopped, 
—otherwise the body of the stalk is wasted. This is 
the liesi part. It is aWeetest and moHt nutritious. And 
it is the chief part in bulk. Chop it fine, and catlle 
wilt eat it, if the fodder has been well curdd. 

Q^aniitl/.^^Aa acre of coTn-stalks, cut and well 
secured, and chopped when fed, is quite as good as an 
acre of hay. 

Oufvyiniff.— Nothing contributes more to the health 
and appearance of (attie, tlian frequent curryings and 
rubbings ; and notbioe enjoys currying more, or shows 
greater improveinent irom it, than hogs. 

fibven tattle. — A band of straw, the size of the 
wrist, placed in the mouth, drawing it li^ht, and mak- 
ing fut the ends over the head, just behind the horns, 
will cause the beast to endeavour to rid itself, by chew- 
ing the band ; and the act of moving the tongue and 
jaws wilt permit the pent-up air to escape. 

Ouer-AedtTi^ — Administer a pint of cider and half 
a pound of old cheese, grated and mixed. 
MemaTlta on Neat Cattle. 

1. The head small and clean, to lessen the quantity 
of offal. 2. The neck tbin and cle&n. 3. The carcass 
large, the chest deep, and the bosom broad, with (he 
ribs Blandiag out full from Ibe ^oe. 4. The shoul- 
ders should be light of booe, and round off at (he lower 
point. S. The back ought to be wide and level through- 
out ; the quarters long ; the thighs thin, and standmg 
narrow at the round bone ; the udder large when full, 
but thin and loose when empty — with targe dug-veins, 
and long elastic teats. 6. The bones, in geueral, light 
atad clean. 

TtoSetefl/.— Adopt the practice of selecting best lambs 
every year, for stock. In af few years you have first- 
rate sheep. The same course will produce the same 
effects in eveiy kind of animal. 



THE HORSE. 

There is no more danger of injury to the horse than 
to ourselves by eating a hearty meal when warm. And 
who ever beard of a man killing himself with a hearty 
dinner, because he ate it when he was fatigued 
heated! 

Il is hard driving immediately afler eating grain 
that killa the horse. Not an instance can be shown in 



We have known men, prudent in most raatlers, yet 
guilty of stuf&D| their horses wilh grain in the mom- 
ingjust before starting' on a journey ! 

How absurd to let your horse stand for hours, after a 
violent exercise, to chop-up his own fodder and attempt 
to appease his hunger on hay. 

Give the horse half a bushel of oats or one peck of 
corn — if he has been used to grain — as soon as yon lead 
him Into the stable, and he will fill himself in an hour 
or two, and be willing to lie down and enjoy a nap, 
even before jou retire lo i«st yourself 

In any part of the country, if you see the grain put 
into the manger you may be pretty sure the hostler has 
not forgotten his duty. 

fVatering. — If you ride moderately, you ought to 
let your horse dritrk at any time on Ihe way ; but if he 
baa been long without water, and is hot, a load of cold 
water, greedily swallowed, will chill and deaden the 
tone of the stomach; buF two or three swallows are 
really necessary to cool his mouth, and may be allowed 
him at any time. 

Spamru are seldom cared: though cures are made 
by Bigler, at Frankford, Pa. 

Heaiuet.—mix ashes in his food, and lime-water for 
his drink. 

Prevent Botts by cleanliness, and giving salt often 
and regularly ; and, occasionally, a few potatoes. 

When your animal has fever^ nature would dictate 
that all stimulating articles of diet or medicine should 
t>e avoided. Bleeding may be necessary to reduce the 
force of the circulation-— purging, to remove irritating 



substances from the bowels^tnoiift^'^ight, and easily- 
digested food, that his weakened digestion may not be 
oppressed— cool drinks, to allay his thirst, and, to some 
extent, Compensate for diminished secret ions— rest and 
quiet, (o preverit undue excitement in his syslem, — but 
nothing to be doue without a reason. We might sum 
oil in one general direclion ; — Treat your brutes like 
meft. 

Cuts should be Cleaned, laid smooth in the natural 
position, and alloW^ time to cure. 

Soifas, when Urge, shnilld be protected from the air 
and exiernal irrilatlon. 

Bruises and Sprains should be kept quiet, or In- 
flammation will ensue : endenvour to reduce Ine heat, 
if more than natural, and avoid the certain ' cure-alls.' 

Colic, — The horse rolls and is in pain. Administer 
a lable-apoonful of strong mustard, dissolved in a black 
or junk bottle of water. Wrap the neck of the bottle 
with twine, to prevent its breaking. If inflammation 
is suspected, breathe a vein. 

hS damp stable produces more evil than a damp 
bouse ; it is there we expect to find horses with bad 
eyes, coughs, greasy heels, swelled legs, mange, and a 
long, rough, dry, staring coat, which no grooming can 
cure. 

£och-7aw.— Throw two or three hogsheads of water 
on the spine. The skin becomes loose, then wrap in 
blankets-~feed with gruel and nourishing diet. 

Sotts are said to be loo deeply buried id the mucous 
coat of the stomach, for any medicine that can be 
safely ministered, to affect Ibem. Sympfom*.— The 
horse bangs his head, is drowsy, and bites himself. Trv 
a mixture of molasses and warm fresh milk, and rub 
externally with spirita of turpentine ; all of which 
m^y loose the botts — then work them off with a large 
dose or two of oil- 

iMmpas (the roof} sometimes grow level with the 
ftant teeth, and impede the feeaing. Touch with a 
lancet gently, and allow lo bleed freuy, instead of the 
usual painful cure of burning. 

jig's.— From 5, black cavity, like Ihe eye of a bean, 
in two middle teeth of lower jaw, ia filled up. At 6, 
the two second are filled upi and at 7 until 8, the black 
marks of corner teeth of lower jaw fill up and disap- 
pear, and the tushes are no longer concave on Ihe aur. 
face next the tongue, but become round or convex. 
The mnrks being now obliterated, the age cannot be 
exactly known ; Ihough extreme length of upper fore 
teeth, their yellow or brownish colour and projecting 
over the under teeth, disappeariog of bars m the 
mouth, and sinking in of Ihe eye-pits, are proofs of 
great age. 

Ring ^onu.— Blister of oil turpentine 1 oz., to 
which add, slowly, vitriolic acid two and .a naif 
drachms, lard 4 oz., powdered Spanish flics one ounce 
and a half. Mix. 

Spavins,— Blisler, same as Ring Bone, adding oil of 
origanum half an ounce. Apply. First fire the part. 

Sand Cj-acks, owing to excessive dryness of the 
crust. Moistenin stable, or turn him out into moist 
ground. 

Verdigris is usef\]I in some cases of soreness or in- 
flammation of the foot. 

CoTTij.- Remove lbs shoe and cut out the corn. 
Tack on the shoe after applying some tow dipped in 
tar. 

The Frog should never be cut away, nor raised by 
Ihe shoe above pressure wilh the ground, as it then 
loses its function of expanding the quarters of the foot, 
and will also become diseased. 

Canker.— Cut the diseased part away j apply each 
day a fresh liniment of oil of turpentine 1 1-2 oz., sul- 
phuric acid half an oz., mix slowly ; tar 3 oz. Fres- 
Bure is one of the best remedies. 

Shoes should nowhere be in contact with the homy 
sole. 

Pofc iluiZ.— Open and apply ointment, ho(, of oil of 
turpentine 1 oz., verdigris half oz., yellow resin 3 oz. ; 
mix. After disease is destroyed, dress as a common 



Staggers jiToiiacei fay too hi^h feeding and little 
exercise. Bleed largely and give aloes 7 drachms,. 



8 



AGRICULTURE. 



Cutile soap 2 drachmB, vrater 1 piot : mix at one 
draught. 

Cropping or Docking manifeslB a want of feeling 
and a want of taste, which should subject the operator 
to the loss of a finger by the sanie useless and daogej 



Glanders is so difficult of cure as to require a sur- 
geoD, and is so fatal and contagious that be should hy 
no means t>e allowed to go into the neighbourhood of 
other horaes, nor feed from the sime bucket or rack, 
nor use the same harness. Syniptoms are, discharge 
at the nose, and swelling of glands under the thront 
Soon as removed, purify the stall by lime, washing, Slc 

Strangles. — Inflamm^ttion of under-jaw glands, with 
cough. Give, once a day, Fever Powder, viz., anti- 
monial powder 6 drachms, camphor 2 drachms. Mix 
for three dosea. 

Change from grass to hot stable is injurious, 

CArontc Cou^-A,— Blister throat, keep moderately 
warm, regular exercise, and each day lartarized anti- 
mony 1 1-2 dr., aloes 1 1-2 dr., Castile soap 1 1-2 dr. 
Syrup to form ball. 

Fever. — Bleed. Give pint castor oil, faeep mode- 
rately warm, feed warm bran mashes, and administer, 
once or twice a day, this Fever Powder: camphor I 
dr., antimonial powder 2 1-2 dr. Mix. 

Excessive Purging creates inflammation and is 
highly pernicious. Give opium, half a drachm, twice 
a day. Rub well, keep warm and perfectly quiet. If 
necessary, blister, and rub with turpentine. 

Jaundice.— Give, daily, opium 1 dr., calomel 1 dr., 
and syrup to form a bait. 

Diabetes.— Give animal food, at Snt as broth, until 
he will feed upon flesh, and omit vegetables and all 
fiuidi as far as possible. 

The Mange is occasioned by low feeding, want of 
cleanliness, or by contagion. Rub with oil turpentine 
2 oz., sulphur vivum 3 oz., lard 5 oz., mixed. 

Wind Galls about the fetlock are from hard labour. 
Cure by blisters and repose, 

SaddU Galb.—Apply cold water, sugar of lead, and 
water or vinegar. 

Brandy and Salt, two thirds brandy and one third 
salt, good for all kinds of galls, wounds, bruises, and 
inflammatory sores. 



SHEEP. 

iMhdia (oV Indian tobacco) has been found good 
where the symptoms of disease are a drooping, running 
at the eyes, weakness in the back and loins, and losing 
ttie use of their hind legs, &c. 

Foul Noses.— Bip a small mop on the end of a stick 
ID tar, then roll it in salt, and hold it in your sheep's 
mouth. 

Ttor,— During the season of grazing, give (ar, a] the 
rate of a gill a day for every twenty sheep. Sprinkle 
a little fine salt over it. This promotes their general 
health. 



COWS. 

Cum/iTig',— Cattle are well known to thrive much 
better where this operation is thoroughly performed, 
and Dr. B. Rush, in a lecture upon the advantages of 
studying the disenses of domestic animals, states that 
there is an improvement in the quality of the milk, 
and an increase of its quantity, which arc obtained by 
currying the cow. 

' Be assured by experience of the truth of the saying, 
that " one cow well milked is worth two badly milk- 
ed," 

Carwen, from three acres of grass, cut and fed thir. 
ty milch cows with 28 lbs. each diy, for 200 days. 
Their health was excellent, and ibeir milk superior. 

MilA clean.— The first drawn milk contains only 5, 
the second 8, and the fifth 17 per cent, of cream. 

Kicking.— If the milker will keep his nails short, 
not one cow in a hundred will kick. 

Sores.— An ointment made of Unseed oil and white 
lead, will cure cracked teats. 

Drink. — Those who wish their -cows to give large 
messes of milk in the winter season, should give Ihem 
warm drink. Theextra trouble will be more than re- 
paid in the increased quantity of milk. 

In milking, be kind' and soolhiog: the cow will 
give down her milk more freely. 

Cream.— Jio not milk so far from the dairy as to let 
Ine milk cool before it is put in the creaming dishes. I 



OXEN. 
Being well-mated, oxen are more easily trained ; and 
the more eiuily to effect this, much self-denial on the 
part of the driver, much coolness of temper, more 
training by motion and less by voice, may be highly 
advantageous to man and beast, 

HOGS. 

F^od.—U pumpkins, roots, apples, or any of tbem 
be ftid to fattening hogs with corn, the advantage will 
be salutary. Most of the food for swine should he 
cooked. Swine fatten much faster on fermented, than 
on unfermented food. Salt, charcoal, and once in a 
while sulphur, are excellent fbr hogs under all circum- 
stancai. 

Good Medicine, — When your hogs get sick, you 
know not of what, give them ears of corn, first dipped 
in tar, and then rolled in sulphur. 

tS Fact.— The first litter of pigs from a young sow 
are naturally feeble and cjifficult to raise, and never per- 
haps acquirethe size and weight that litters of the same 
sow do afterwards. 



BEES. 

Every farmer should keep bees; a few Gwarms (o 
furnish honey for his own use, if no more. They toil 
with unremilling industry, asking but a full sweep of 
the wing, and no monopoly. Every man, in either 
town or country, can keep bees to advantage. Dr, 
Smith of Boston has an apiary on his house top, from 
whence his little winged labourers tmverse the air 
eight or ten miles in search of ifbod. What a delicious 
banquet they afford, from the rich nectar gathered 1 
They collect honey and bread from most kinds of forest 
trees, as well as garden flowers ; orchards, forests, and 
trees— all-contribute to their wants, and their owner is 
gratified with a lasle of the whole. . Sweet mignonette 
IB especially mentioned as easily cultivated by drills in 
a garden, and is one of the finest and richest flowers in 
the world, tVom which the honey-bee can extract its 
food. 

The cobwebs must be kept away from the immedi- 
ate vicinity of the hive, and all other annoyancea re- 
moved. 

"Never kill a bee." The smoke of the fungus 
maximus, or cotnmon puff ball, wh«n dried so as to 
hold fire, has a stupifying effect on the bees, and ren- 
ders them as harmless as brimstone does, without any 
of its deadly effects. By meins of this, weak swarms, 
which would not live through the winter, may tie 
united to strong stocks. It is a fact, home out by ex- 
periment, that a hive thus doubled will not consume 
more honey in the winter than a stock in its natural 
state. This was discovered by a Swiss pastor, De Ge- 
lior. The additional heat seems to serve instead of ad- 
ditional food, to keep up the vitality of the half-torpid 
bees. A cold, dry, dark room, is the best winter quar- 
ters for bees. They will consume less honey than if 
left on their summer stands, and will not be weakened 
by the loss of thousands, which, tempted out by the 
premature warmth, are caught by the cold winds, fall 
to the ground and never rise again, 

Drmess is essential j and venlilation, or proper air- 
ing of the hives in summer, is the most valuame im- 
provement in bee keeping. 



AGRICULTURE. 



POULTRY. 

Nearly everr family can, with very little (rooUe, 
have ^1^ in pFeDty durine the whole year ; and of all 
the aoitnals domeaticnted Tor Ibe use of mRii, the com- 
mon duDghill fowl is capable of yielding the grealegt 
posiible profit to (he owner. . 

The- Hen-Houae should be warm in winter, well 
ventilated in summer, whitewashed and kept clean. 
RooBla of sassafras poles are less infested with lice. 
Have no eround floor. Supply slacked lime, fine gra- 
vel, or ashes, or burnt oyster shells, &c. 

Feeding. — They will sing over Indian com with 
more animation than any other grain. The hen must 
have secrecy and myatery about her nest; watch her, 
and she will forsake her neat, and stop laying. 

They eat lees, if allowed to help themselveii to what 
they want, than if fed in the usual way; for in the 
latter case each tries to get as much as it can, and thus 
bunJeuB itself, but finding in the former case that they 
have abundance, they eat but little and that generally 
in the morning early, and in the evening going to roost. 

A farmer may keep an hundred fowls in his barn, 
mayBuSenbRm to trample upon and destroy his mows 
of wheat and other grain, and still have fewer eggs 
than the cottager who keeps a single dozen, who pro- 
vides secret nests, chalk eggs, pounded brick, plenty 
of Indian com, a few oals, lime, water and gravel, for 
them: and who takes care that his hens are not dis- 
turbed about their nests. Three chiilk eggs in a nest 
are better than a single nest egg, and large eggs please 
tbem- 

A single dozen fowls, properly attended, will furnish 
a family with more than 2,000 eggs in a year, and 100 
fnil-grown chickens for fall and winter stores. The 
expense of feeding the dozen fowls will not amount to 
IS bushels of Indian com. They-may be kept in cities 
aa well as in the comitry, and will do as we^l shut up 
the year round as to mn at large, with proper care. 

A itact.— Eggs the nearest to roundness produce fe- 
males, and throe pointed at one end always produce 
males. 

For F(Utming.—BcnUd Indian, wheat and barley, ie 
better than oats, rye or buckwheau One-tliini is gain- 
ed by boilm^, 

MISCELLANEOUS HINTS. 
fVild Onion ma^ be destroyed by cultivating com, 
ploDghing and leaving the field in its ploughtd state 
all winter. 

fememfter,— The great rule in relation to animals 
holds perfect in its application to vegetables: breed 
only from the beat aniiuals ; dejecta aiiA imperfections 
have always a tendency to propagate tTiemaelves, and 
are cOwaiya, in a gretUer or leas degree, transmitted. 

Wheat aboots strongest when there is an interval be- 
tween the time of ploughing and sowing, but barley 
is most vegetative when sown immediately after the 
plough. 

Grease JPheeti.—GO parts, by weight, of pulverized 
black lead, 50 ot lard, SO of soap, and 5 of quick-sil- 
ver. Rub the lard and mercury first together, then the 
lead and soap. If well mixed, it is invaluable. 

Plants, when drooping, are revived by a few grains 
of camphor. 

Flowers beginning to fade, can be restored by pat- 
ting the stems in scalding water. 

Bacon Hams in summer. — I^ck in a barrel, in 
dean dry ashes or charcoal ; bead up the barrel and 
putit where it is dry, and as cool as possible. 

Timber cut in the spring and exposed to the wea- 
ther toith the barb on, deaya much sooner than that 
cut in the faU, 

In Feeding with com, 60 Ibg. ground goes as far as 
100 lbs. !n the kernel. 

.^TTpiU.— Experiments show apples to be eanal to 
potatoes to -improve hogs, and decidedly profitable for 
uttening cattle. 



Fears are greatly improved by grafting on the 
mountain ash. 

Rats and other vermin are kept away from cnin by 
a sprinkling of garlic when packing the sheaves. 

Wet Land.— Money skilfully expended in drying 
land by draining or otherwise, will be relumed' with 
ample intereit. ' 

Qrasa — Sweet and nutritious grass gives a richness 
and flavour to milk, attainable from no other source. 

CuriTif Fodder. — Bundles may he so placed around 
centre-poles as to form a hollow alack, having a found- 
ation of brush, slicks, &c., admitting a circulation of 
air tliat will thoroughly cure fodder m the shade. 

Turnips of small size have 'double the nutritious 
matter that large ones have. 

Ritta Baga is Ihe only root that increases in nutri- 
tious qualities aa it increases in size. 

In transplanting treea, the hole should not be pn>> 
portioned to the extent of the roots as they are, but to 
their extent aa they may be and should be. 

Tbads are the very best protection of Cabbages 
againaC lice. 

Peach Trees are protected from hard winters bv co- 
vering (he roots a foot deep with straw, in January, 
after ttie ground has become thoroughly frozen, which 
keeps Ihe frost in the ground, and so prevento the sap 
from starling until the Spring is fairly opened. 

The Udder of a beef cow, salted, smoked and dried, 
is rich, delicious eating. 

Lard never spoils in wama weallier if it is cooAed 
enough iu frying out. 

IVash your Butter in cold water, work out all Ihe 
buttermilk, pack it in a stone jar, stop the mouth air 
tight, and it will keep sweet for ever. 

Tomatoes make an excellent preserve. 

Stoeet or Oliue Oil is a certain core for the Site of a 
Rattlesnake. Apply it internally and externally. 

To cure Scratches on a Horse. — Wash Ihe legs vrith 
warm strong sD:ip suds, and then with beef brine. Tivo 
applications will cure Ibe worst case. 

A lump of Sal eratua or Pearlaab, crowded into the 
pipe of a Poll Bvil or Thistteoios, two or three times, 
will cure this incurable diaease. 

Com Meal should nevfr ha ground very fine. It 
injures the richness of it. 

iZtce is often over-boiled. It should be boiled but 10 
minutes, and in no more water than it will atnorb 



Old £rine.~lt sweet and good, and has kept your 
old pork good, it will keep tne new without boiling. 
If Ihe brine is full of matter which it has received 
from the old pork, it cannot extract the best juices of 
the new, and is quite as sweet. 

Salt is really necessary to horses, cattle, and sheep. 
and they should be supplied with it at regular stated 
intervals throughout all seasons of the year. 

Manure, on a wet soil, produces but half its eGTect : 
and gypsum, that grand stimulant of dry soils, OD a 
wet one is useless. 

Save your Fire Wood. — Mr. Madison, in his Notes 
of Agriculture, says, " Of all tjie errors in our raral 
economy, noneperbnps ia to be so much regretted, be- 
cause none so difficult to be repaired, as the excessive 
and injudicious destruction of fire wood." 

Sorrel may be killed out by lime, while ashes hai no 
effect on it. 

Shumac or Sumac, a poisonous shrub or plant, 
which grows wild in abundance, and frequantlv where 
nolbinz else will, ia used for dyeing in England, at the 
rate of thirteen thousand Ions per andum. II might be 
made a source of profit to our farmers. 



10 



AGRICULTURE. 



£t7ii£.— A FeDDsylvania farmer raised 400 bushels 
of wheat from a field of land which five years ago 

Sroduced but thirty bushels. He spread fifieeo huQ- 
red bushels of lime on said land. 
Barley is becoming more an article of diet. It 
makes the finest of cakes when prepared like buck- 
wheat. Farmers are finding it as poor economy to 
turn barley into beer to make paupers and criminals 
for Ihem to support, as to convert apples inio cider to 
create an-appelile in their children for stronger drink. 
Ground, it is a moat valuable food for all kinds of stock. 

Sunflorwer yields 140 bu&hels per acre, and each 
bushel of seed one gallon of good oil. Cost of ex- 
pressing, 25 cents per gallon. Its leaves furnish pro- 
vender, and its seed la capital food for poultry, cattle, 
and hogs. It is a profitable crop on poor soils, re- 
quiriog out Utile labour. 

An Emetic may be made in emergency by taking 
two teaspoonsful of mustard mixed with water. 

Rye is most thrifty on soil of a dry, sandy or gra- 
vellj' texture, if well manured, and winters better the 
earlier it is sowed. It isjhe least healthy of all the 
grains. Sown early for winter a bushel per acre, and 
m spring a bushel and a half, wilLgenerally be sufi!i- 
cieot. The earlier harvested, the whiter the flour ; 
later, (he grain may be heavier from the thickness of 
the skin, causing more bran but no increase of flour. 
Roor» well thatched with rye straw last 20 years. 

Com. — Sprinkling with salt and water will check 
the WevU. 

See^in^ FruiU.—Thz three best, of eight different 
modes, fairly tried, are, 1, covering in pure dry sand ; 
2, in dry fern ; 3, in a deal box buried tn the earth j 
in all cases placed in a cool situation. 

Orchards of pear or apple trees are more subject to 
blight and destruction, if open and sloping to the West, 
than in any other exposure. Either ashes, iron or 
soap suds, applied to the roots, have cured blight in 
pear trees. 

Caterpillars and other insects are effectually de- 
slroyed by a drenching of tobacco juice. 

Butter. — Heating the milk in winter, afier strain- 
ing, to 130 degrees. Improves the quanlily and quality 
of butter, and reduces the lime and labour of churning. 

Borer.— KiW this insecl's eggs in apple and quince 
trees by a solution of potash, applied with a brush 
about the foot of the tree, occasionally, from April to 
June. 

Draining is important, and covered drains are 
more lasting and valuable than open ditches. Cut 
drains three or four feet deep, place a row of poles at 
bottom, then a layer of brush to within ten inches of 
the top, then a few inches of straw or dry leaves, and 
cover with earth well rammed down. 

Bone Ihist.--Aa English proverb says, " One ton of 
bone dust saves the importation of ten tons of grain." 

Ashes, although leached, form an excellent manure. 

Pumpkins may be kept a year, sound and well fla- 
voured, if carefully gathered and hung up in a dry 
cellar. Or, take out the soft parts, slice, and dry in the 
sun or oven. Keep dry, ana boil ; a rich good food. 

DtwAff, when young, should have but little water, 
and be fed exclusively on boiled food, potatoes, &c. 
Hominy for fattening is good. 

" Salt is health to a gosling, but death to a chicken," 
is an old and true saying. 

Ctder.— Cleanse barrels with lime, then rinse well 
out. Half a pint mustard seed will preserve it good a 
long time. Filtering through a hair sieve and racking 
off improves it. 

Roots. — Feeding with roots, especially wilh sngar- 
beat, cannot be loo highly prized, being rich, juicy, 
fattening, and economical. 

Turnip Fly may bo expelled by the use of fish oil, 
one or two gallons to the acre. 



Fork Cured, Soon as cool enough to cut, and before 
it freezes, pack a clean cask full, with plenty of salt on 
all sides of each piece. Fill up with water, talcing 
care, by means or a large stone, to keep the pork un- 
der the pickle, and covered from flies, in a cellar. 
Never boil pic6:le. 

Fork Feeding. It is a well ascertained fact that 
more meat will be made on half the weight of com, 
if ground and made into mush instead of being fed 
whole. 

In Smoking Hams, &c., be careful not to have the 
fire too nigh, or the smoke-house too light. It is best 
done in an upper story to which the smoke is conveyed 
in tubes, from oak or maple chips in the cellar. In 

Eassin^ this distance, the vapour which smoke usually 
olds, IB deposited, and the hama are perfectly dry and 
cool during the whole process. 

HoUow Horn. Where supposed to exist, feed half 
peck potatoes twice a week, and treat your cattle 
kindly in food and shelter. 

Timber. To preserve, soak in lime and water, long 
enough for the lime to penetrate. 

SAccp must be fed well, kept dry, have salt onen, 
and pure air, and be grazed in hilly stony pastures. 

For packing FlaTits, use saw-dust. 

As a general rule, with but few exceptions, sqnare 
large fields are more advantageous than small irregular 
ones, requiring less fence, and being more easily wa- 
tered, manured, ploughed, and harvesledi 



SXTCCESSFUL FARMING. 

The Farmers' Cabinet relates an instance of a farm- 
er in the neighbourhood of Amherst, N. H,, who com- 
menced in the world as a day labourer, and who, not- 
withstanding he has at various times sustained heavy 
pecuniary losses in the investment of his funds, U now 
worth at least one hundred thousand dollars. 

" This man,.when thirty years of age, by the avails 
of his industry added to a small legacy, was enabled to 
purchase and pay, in part, for a farm of one bundted 
and thirty acres of land, one hundred of which was 
under cultivation, but in a very low state. The farm 
is altogether upland, wilh a soil composed of loam, 
clay, and sand, in the chief of which the latter pre- 
ponderates, the former being least considerable. When 
he commenced fanning, he adopted a particular sys- 
tem of rotation, to which he has implicitly adhered 
from that time to the present, which is forty years,-and 
his success is the best comment on the worth of the 
experiment. His mode was as follows; having di- 
vided his farm into eight fields of equal size, as near 
as possible, three of those fields were sowed with 
wheat each year, one with rye, one planted with corn, 
two in clover, and one an open fallow, on which corn 
had been raised the year previous. One of the (wo 
clover fields is kept for mowing, the other for pasture, 
both of which are ploughed as soon after the harvest 
as possible, and prepared for wheat in the fall. Alt 
the manure which is made on the farm for one year is 
hauled in the spring on the field intended for openial- 
low, which is then ploughed,, and, after one or-two 
cross ploughings through the summer, is'sJso sowed 
with wheat in the fall. The field on which Ihe'ryb is 
sown is that flrom which a crop of wheat has been; 
taken the same year, and which bad yielded three 
crops. Corn is planted on the field from which Tfe^ 
had been taken the year previous, the stubbles of which ; 



THE SUGAR BEET. 



11 



are ploughed down in the blL Clover seed is bowd 
early in the spring on two of the wheat fields, those 
which have been most recently manured. By this 
method, each field yields three ciapi of wheat, two of 
clover, one of rye, and one of corn, every eight years. 
Each field, in the mean time, has lain an open fallow, 
and received a heavy dressing of manure, perhaps at 
an average of fifteen four-borse loads per acre. Hia 
crop of wheat is seldom less than fifteen hundred bush- 
els, but oflcD much more. Bis average rye crop is 
about four hundred and fifty bushels, and his corn crop 
annually abont five hundred bushels ; all which grain, 
at the present low prices, would amount to more than 
two thoatand doUara annually, and at former prices 
to double that amount, and hia form h withal very 
highly improved)" 



ROCKS 
Are easily broken in pieces by building a fire on them, 
and throwing on water while hot. 

SMALL FAKMS. 
In eondUHlon, we desire to impress on the common- 
sense reasoning of every man, the paramount impor- 
tance of having no more land in culture than can be 
well cultivated. By no means attempt to manage more 
than you can manage well. Ssa TARMEB, not a 
mere earth-scraper, lazily scratching up sufficient earth- 
to destroy the face of the soil, and' throw seed away, 
or you will always have to scratch hard for a living. 
But make your farm a source of pride, and it will 
surely become a source of profit Make the object to 
be not to have maavyj but RICH acres. 



THE SUGAR BEET. 

BT JAMES RONALDSON, PHILADELPHIA. 



In the feeding cattle, milk cows, and stock of all 
kinds, every farmer who has tried the Sugar Beet, 
knows (bat it is equal to any, and su^rior to most of 
the feeds that are used. Its culture n attended with 
little expense, and In our dry climate is more certain 
of making a good crop than any other of the roots 
grown for the purpose of feeding stock. 

A gentleman interested in the erowing of sugar-cane 
in Louisiana, states that a crop of Sugar Beets is found 
to be superior to all other crops as a refresher and re- 
novator of the land after (he fburth crop, that is, the 
fourth year of suga.i^cane. If it proves suitable for 
making sugar from in the cane latitude, the making of 
Bu^ will assume an entirely new character ; and in 
Louisiana, the boiling season will commence with the 
beet, and close with the cane, whereby the same capi- 
tal that is invested in (he works, machinery, &&, con- 
nected with the boiling house, will prove a great sav- 
ing on this portion of the planter's capital. 

As yet the process of extracting sugar from beets has 
not bKn made Bu£Sciently perfect to obtain the whole 
saccbarioe matter as in toe case of the sugar-cane, 
therefore the residue forms excellent food for cattle. 

Cturim of GrouTtd.—SeBt thrives in the soil suited 
to the potato. In the atnence of manure the roots will 
be small, but where they grow fresh and healthy, it has 
been found that small plants yield a large proportion 
of Bi^r ; bnt ttus by no means makes up for the want 
of mass. 

Land essentially stiff clay is not suitable for beets, 
because the seed germinates badly, and the root be- 
comes forked and rises too much above the surface, 
where it becomes hard and reedy. One of the evils 
attending forked roots is, that stones, eravel, and earth 
get enveloped in the interstices, and injure the ma- 
chine, when the object is to make sugar. Clay soils 
are improved by deep and frequent ploughing and har- 
rowing : the manores best suited to this kind of ground, 
are hajf-rotted straw, fresh stable dung, leaves, &c. 

Pnparaium of the Ground.— Here, as tn alt other 
d^tartmentB of the farming business, much of the suc- 
cess depends on the skill and judgment of the farmer. 
In many cases three ploughings will be necessary, and 
one of these plDnghmgs should be before winter, that 
the lumed-Qp soil may be mellowed by the frost ; the 
last ploughing has to be in the spring immediately be- 
fore planting the seed ; two ploughings in this countir 
will be found soflScient ; io all cases it should be well 
harrowed, and rolling will be an improvement that 
amply repays the expense. Deep ploughing is gene- 
rally useful, hut the farmer has to consiouer Che nature 
of the substrata. It would be improper to turn up 



much of the poor clay or gravel bottom, and where 
the substrata is an open sand, deep ploughing is not 
required. Manure in which the process of fermenta- 
tion has not advanced far, will answer best for beets, 
nevertheless all kinds are useful ; but the half-rotten 
best divides the soil and suITers the roots fi-eely to ex- 
pand. 

Of Sowing in Seds.~'Bj this method the whole of 
the seed is sown on a smalt portion of land compared 
with what it is intended to occupy ; these plants will 
be fit to pull up and plant out where they are finally 
to remam, in a month or six weeks from the time of 
sowing ; this planting is performed by means of a dib- 
ble with which holes are made in the ground, always 
a little deeper than the lenglh of the plant Ihat is to Se 
put into them, and with this dibble the earth must be 
carefully pressed close to the root. Ttiis mode of sow- 
ing should be thought of only where seed is scarce, the 
quantity to be sown not great, and labour easily pro< 
cured. 

SroadCasi. — This manner is the simplest. Six 
pounds of seed will be required where two and a half 
or three would have been enough when planted ia 
drills by the band, and the produce is never as great a^ 
by the following method ; 

Rows or Drills.— The little furrows into which the 
seeds are to be dropped are made by a harrow, having 
the teeth at the distance one from another that the rows 
of beets are intended to be from each other, and the 
seed is dropped two or three into the drills nt the dis- 
tance of twelve to eighteen inches apart from each 
other. After^the planting is finished, the seeds are 
covered by having a light narrow with plenty of teeth 
in it drawn over the ground. In this way there is a 
great saving of seed and the plants are regularly spaced. 
Four boys will plant an acre in a day. By using a drill 
di^wn by a hone, the labour is very much abridged 
and the work will be expedited. This machine is 
very important to those who plant large fields. In fix- 
ing the distance that is to be between the rows, refer- 
ence should be had to the kind of horse-hoe that is to 
be used in keeping the crops free from weeds. When 
the plants are far from each other the roots will grow 
to a large size, and the contrary will result from plant- 
ing them close. The seed should lie planted at the 
depth of ftt>m one to two Incbes. 

Time of Soioing. — This depends on (he position of 
the place and the nature of the soil ; as a general rule, 
the earlier the better. Provided the tand is dry and in 
proper order, early sowing is particularly important 
when the object is to make sugar, because the roots ar- 



12 



VEGETABLES. 



ing to commence early. | ^. ^^^ j, ^^^j^j^, ^g,^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ j^el^. ^^J jt n,ay bo 

O/fltwinc".— Few plants suffer more than the beet useful to open the pita from time to time to air and 

from neelecl, and tlie baneful iiitluence of weeds in tlie jtegp (hem frcHh, and if any are observed to spoil, they 

first stages of its vegetation. The ground therefore has . j.[,ouii be carefully taken out. The preservmg of 

to be kept free of weeds, and it should be kept mellow ]jgg,g jg ,i,e ^ogi difficult of all the branches connecled 

during the plant's dcvelopement. Beets require one 

or two hand thinnings, and as many hand hoeings. The 

first of the hoeings should be about when four or five 

of the leaves have put out, the second in from three to 

'?e weeks afte ' *" " '"-'" * " """ ""'"' 

ue pulled up ai .uv.-. — -. m -- — - i-- -^ ,-, 

thinned, there will be a clusterof leaves, but very small 

roots ; where there are blanks, they should be filled up 

with those pulled up from where there are loo many. 

After the rows have been carefully freed from weeds 

and properly thinned, the horse-hoe, cultivator, or 

drill harrow can be advantageously run between the 

rows. After each horse-hoeing, remove the earth 

thrown on hy the harrow, &c. If any of the beets 

shoot out into the seed stalk, cut oflf these stalks, be- 
cause this growth would be at the expense of the root. 
Harvesting.— The evidences of the plant being ripe 

are a falling down of the leaves, and those of a bright 

freen, turamg yellow and brown. The influence of 
rought mayonng on these appearances; the observ- 
ing farmer will understand when this change is caused 
by heat, or want of moisture ; indeed he has to attend 
to the weather, and the appearance of Ihe approach of 
winlcr, that he may take advantage of all Ihe crowing 
season, and at the same lime not be loo late in narvest- 
ing, and thereby expose the crop to be injured by frost. 
The roots should be pulled by hand, or assisted by the 
spade when necessary. Shake the earth off them, and 
be careful not to strike one against another or in nny 
way bruise them : bruising disposes them to rot. Cut 
off the tops, being careful not to cut the beet. The 
leaves being cut off lessens the disposition of the root 
to vegetate, and it prepares ihem to be housed. The 
beets should lay on the ground unlil they are dry be- 
fore they are housed. 

Preservation. — The roots must not be left long on 
the ground exposed to the air, heat and moialure; 
much ^eat or cold are both found detrimental, as a heat 
of fi(^-six to sixly degrees Fahrenheit, in damp wea- 
ther, will produce a lermentation sufficient to reduce 
the quantity of saccharine matter; and on the other 
hand, beets freeze very readily, so that only a few de- 
grees t>elow thirty-two will dispose them to rot. 

The best aired cellar is not better for securing the 
beet than a judiciously made pit. It is most prudent 

to maice them Urge, because if a part of the contents 

of a pit begins to ^tpoi't the disease will spread through 

the whole mass. They may be made from four to five 



Grmmng of the Seed.— It is only in the ucond year 

that it produces seed. The proper lime for choosing 

fiVrwerk;Vft;rwafis/-All7heplant3.Bave ^^etrTwS^ktg %' Sc^pV.l^Sld^ 

be pulled up at the«.me of hoe.np; if^npt proper'^J; ShJ, "lomewhal Ibove the mJiim size in length 

and thickness ; well formed and no ways forked, and 
of a fine light colour (If for sugar, perfectly white) ; 
they should be kept through winter in sand or dry 
earth, Mid placed in a temperate barn or cellar equally 
guarded from the influence of heat and cold. They 
should be planted out in March, or so soon as Ihe land 
is in good order, and at the distance of two or .three 
feet apart : the branches being liable to split off, and 
break down, have to be supported by slicks or frames. 
When the seed is ripe, which will generally be in Sep- 
tember, the stalks are to be cut off and tied into bun- 
dles to dry, and then the seed is beaten off or removed 
from the stems by hand. The small seeds towards ihe 
outer end of the branches do not ripen well. The next 
process ia to expose the seed to the sun, and then it is 
put into sacks and kept in a dry place, where mice and 
vermin shall ool have access lo it. The average yield 
of plants in France is from four to six ounces of good 
seed. 

General flcmarfa.— The Peet is found, under some 
circumstances, to degenerate, the seed of the whi'e 
plant producing yellow and red roots : this tendency 
may be checked by changing the seed from clay to 
sandy, and from sandy to clay soils. The seed, if care- 
fully preserved from moisture, insects, and vermin, 
will keep for several years j but after four _years, it 
will not be prudent to sow it. When the object is to 
make sugar, care should be taken to h-ive seed that 
will produce while roots; and early sowing will afford 
the opportunity of commencing the crushing and boil- 
ing at an early period. The early bruisings produce 
the largest proportion of sugar. 

When Ihe Beet is employed in feeding cattle, one of 
the effects will be, lo produce more and richer ma- 
nure, and this will place in the farmer's power Ihe en- 
tire commnnd of his farm ; he can do wilh it what- 
ever he pleases. Every encouragement is held out for 
the culture of bee*. It being a green crop, draws much 
of its nourishment from Ihe atmosphere; and in place 
of exhausting Ihe land, leaves It in fine order, for any 
crop the farmer may choose to put on it. Beets i& n» 
way interfere with the cultivation of wheat, clover, 
barley, Indian corn, potatoes, turnips, 8cc, With the 
aid of a fewr beets, the profitable effects of that most 
useful grain, Indian corn, will be gceatly increased in 
feeding cattle. Calves fed wilh beets or roots in their 
first winter, will generally be as goed asimals at the 
end of two years, as those that have been fad the first 
winter on dry food and coin, will be at the end of 
three years. 



feet wide, and eight, ten, or twelve lone. One to two 
feet is deep enough ; this hole is lo be filled with beets, 
and piled up until they form a ridge, and the whole is 
to be covered wilh the earth dug from Ihe pit ; a drain 
should be cut round Ihe heap, to carry off all water, it 
being of importance that the beet be kept dry, and for 
this reason, ground naturally dry should be selected for 
the pits : perhaps in our severe climate it may be ne- 



VEGETABLES. 



Jltiichoke.— Sow early in the Spring, in rows three 
inches apart, or plant iiuckers. 

Asparasus. — Sow in April, in good rich soil. 

BBANS. English jDwar/«.— Plant as early in the 
Spring as the ground will work. 

Kidney Dwarfs, — Flant from end of April to about 
ZDIh August. 

Pole or Running.— Thot beginning of May, and at 
intervals through the season. 



Bee/*.— Sow in drills, from early fn the Spring till 
the middle of Summer. Leave the plants 6 to 8 mcbes 
apart in the drills. 

SoreaiU is an excellent green. Sow in Fall, either 
broadcast or in drills, as for W inter Spinach. 

Srusseb Sprouts are cultivated for the smaUlaeada 
which are attached to the stem. Sow in the middle of 
Spring, HDd treat as Winter Cabbage. 

SrocoH produces heads like Cauliflower. Sow in 
seed bed about the middle of Spring. Transplant in 



HORTICULTURE. 



13 



ridi gronDd TfheD 8 or 12 inches high, and treat as 
WintBP Cabbage. 

Cabbagv.~¥or early cabb;»ge, sow in Autumn, lo 
seed beda. Protect during Winter ; transplant early in 
the Spring. For late cabbaee, sow in seed bed, middle 
nf Spring, Transplant early in Summer. 

Cardoon is tnach used for salads, soups, and stewB. 
Treated much like Celery. 

Caidiflower. — Sow, for early, in seed beds, in Au- 
tumn : protect from frost, in cold frames, and trans- 
plant in rich grouod after frost ceases. For Lite, Ina-' 
nage .as Brocoli. 

Carrots should be sown e:irly in the Spring, in deep* 
dug and well-manured ground, in drills twelve or 
eighteen inches apart. 

_ Ce^ry should be sown earl^ in the Spring, in light 
rich moist soil. Transplant m trenches, highly ma- 
nured, when about tt inches high. Blanch by earthing 
up as they advance in growth. 

CluToiL — ^A small salad. Sow early in the Spring, 
and after heat of Summer. 

Cretf,— Used as a salad. Sow very thick, in shallow 
drills, at intervals through the season. 

Com Salad — Used as a salad during (he Winter 
and Spring. Sow thick, in drills, about 1st of Septem- 
ber, and cover with straw on the approach of cold, 

Cucumbera should be planted first week in May, in 
huts 4 feet apart : prepare the ground by in(»rporating 
a shovelfull of rotten dung in each hill. 

Endive. — Sow last of Spring to middle of Summer, 
Id shallow drills. 

Egg-Ptant.-~Sov in hot-beds early in the Sping; 
transplant in rich warm ground late in the Spring, 
-«t»ut SO inches apart. Egg-plant seed will not vege- 
tate freely without a substanlial heat. 

I^tuce should be sown in seed-bed, in the middle of 
September ; protect the plants throueh ibe Winter, and 
early in the Spring transplant in rich ground : or sow 
in hot-beds in March, and at intervals throughout the 
season. 

Mebm. — Plant in hills, in light sandy earth, about 
the first week in May. 

Mushroom Spwum should be planted in hot-beds of 
dung, covered with earth. 

Mustard. — Sown like Crete, and used for a salad. 

Nasturtium. — Sow in May. The flowers and young 
leaves are used as a salad j the eeed-pods, with foot- 



stalk, are gathered whilst green, and ptckled as a sub- 
slitule For capers, 

Okra, or GomlOf is one of the best of vegetables. 
Plant in May. The seed should be sown thick, as it is 
liable lo rot in the ground. Very rich ground is re- 
quired. 

Onioru should he sown in drills, early in the Spring, 
in rich ground, thin, to stand 2 or 3 inches apart. 

Parsley should be sown early in the Spring. Soak 
in warm water before sowing. 

Parsnip. — Sow in drills 18 inches apart, in good and 
deep-dug ground, early in the Spring. 

Peas.— The best soil for Peas is a light loam. The 
early sorts require rich ground. Sow in drills as early 
in the Spring as the ground will work. 

Pepper.— Sow late in Spring, in drills, on a warm 
border ; or in a ft:ame or bot-bed, in March s set oat 
plants 18 inches apart. 

PuinpAtn. — The Mammoth Pumpkin has been 
grown to the enormous weight of 229 poiinds. Plant 
eariy in May, in rich soil, in bills, 8 to 10 feet apart 
each way. ■ 

Sadisti. — Tlie early kinds should be sown as soon 
as the ground can he worked, in a sheltered sitoation. 

Jlhuba/rb should be sown in Autumn or early in the 
Spring : when in the latter, transplant in the ensuing 
Spring to desired situation. The stems are used for 
birts, and are fit for use before green fruit can be ob- 
tained, being a very desirable substitute. 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster should be sown during 
April. The roots boiled, made into cakes, with paste, 
and fried like oysters, much resemble them. 

Spinach should be sown as soon as the ground can 
be worked. The soil cannot be too rich for Spinach. 

Squash. — CuUivale same as Cucumber. 

Tomato.— Sow in hills 3 feet apart, on a warm bor- 
der, early in the Spring. As the plants advance in 
growth, give them support. 

Turnip. — For summer use sow early in the Spring. 
For main crop sow close of summer. The Ruta Baga 
requires more lime to mature, and should be sown at 
mid-summer. 

Aromatic and Sweet Herbs.— Aawe, Brazil (sweet). 
Caraway, Coriander, *Fennel, ^Lavender, Marygold 
Pot, Marjorum (sweet), 'Sage, Summer Savory, •Win- 
ter Savory, •Thyme, •Mint, •Rosemary, Dill. 

Those marked with a • are perennial, and when 
once obtained may be preserved for years. The others 
are annuals. 



HORTICULTURE. 

BY HENUT A. DKEER. 



FLOWEKS. 
General Directions for their CiHtivatian. 

The Flower Garden has always been the object of 
admiration: its refinement and delicacy have never 
been questioned, while its proper cultivation and at- 
tention are universally considered as evidences of taste 
and intellect. 

Soil.— The first requisite to ensure the healthy 
growth of flowers, is soil. That most suited to the 
cultivation of garden fiov/ers, is a rich mellow loam, 
which should be well manured and pulverized late in 
the fall, or as early as possible in the spring. When 
ground is of a bam and clayey nature, the addition of 
sand will lend to render it less adhesive, and thus en- 
able your tender varieties to slrike their roots deep in 
Ibe earth when Ihey might otherwise perish with 
drought. The earden should have a regular supply of 
manure every fall. 



Annual seeds may be sown from the 1st April to the 
1st June, with variations of success. Those sown ear- 
liest, flower sooner and more profusely. Sow either in 
small beds or in drills from one-fourth to one inch in 
depth, according to the size of Ibe seed. In a month 
to six weeks tbcnr will be ready to transplant. Be care- 
ful lo do this during cloudy and rainy weather. Re- 
move your plants carefully ; set the larger flowering 
kinds m the rear, the smaller in front. Alxive all 
things, be careful not to crowd Qiem, as one healthy 
plant is more beautiful in a garden Iban fifty sickly and 
attenuated. Tie your taller-growing kinds to painted 
rods : this gives an air of -neatness, indispensable in a 
prden. Ir Ibe weather, at (he time of transplanting, 
13 dry and warm, nater them well for a week, and 
keep them entirely shaded from the sun. So not set 
all out at once, but from time to time, lest a hot season 
should prematurely arrive. Many tender annuals, that 
do not vegetate freelv in the open ground, and which, 
after vegetation, a slight chill might destroy, may be 
brought forward in the following manner : 



14 



HORTICULTURE. 



Cnltivators desiroua of obtaining an early bloom, 
may commence by BOwing their seed early in March, 
ID pots or boxes of earlh in the bouse, giving them ai. 
much Bun as pwsible during the warmth of the day, 
and protecting them from the ioflueoce of a chill dur- 
ing night. This operation must, however, be per- 
formed with great care, to scarcely cover the more 
delicate kinds, while the stronger-growing may be 
sown a quarter of an inch in depth. A very delicate 
watering-pot, which suffers the water to fall like a 
shower of dew over the earth without washing away 
the most delicate seed, should be used. Give only a 
sufficient quantity of water ; the greatest fault with the 
inexperienced is their propensity to drown every plant, 
which is equally injurious with depriving the plants 
entirely of sustenance. Freaerve each kind disliDctly 
labelled. 

However, the most proper method, and that most 
generally practised by families having large gardens, 
18 to " throw up" a small hot-bed, in whicn the pots 
conbiolng seed may be plunged to their rims, or sown 
in shallow drills on earth previously placed over the 
manure, and should then be labelled to prevent mis- 
take. The Cyprus Vine, Scarlet Morning Glory, and 
other species of the Convolvolacex, should be soaked 
a few hours in warm water before being placed In the 
ground. They wilt then vegetate much earlier and 
more regularly, and will blossom sooner. Many vari- 
eties will vegetate much sooner by covering them with 
a hand-glass, which should be taken off shortly after 
their appearance above ground, lest they sbould be 
rendered^ weak and sickly oy confinement. 

Cover the bed up carefully at night, for fear of sud- 
den cold chilling the plants. Give them air by raising 
the saih on every fine day : this will render them more 
hardy, and capable of enduring tiansplantiog with less 
danger. 

Lupins delight in a half-ahady spot, and should 
never be transplanted : the seed may be aown early in 
March,'in the open ground, and, when in city culture, 
kept moist after vegetation. Leaf or peat soil to mix 
will prove advantageous. 

Hardy perennial and biennial seeds may be sown 
about the same time as the annuals. These do not 
blossom the fint year ; they may therefore he thinned 
out or removed from the beds in vrhich they have been 
first planted : when their roots acquire sufficient 
strength, set out in the places they are to occupy for 
the succeeding year. They must be kept free from 
weeds, and the ground occasionally loosened to facili- 
tate their growth. Biennials are generally raised from 
seed sown every year. Many varieties of hardy an- 
nuals flower much larger and finer in the spring, If 
sown the preceding summer or fall, so as to vegelate 
previous to frost. Among these, the Dwarf Rocket 
Larkspur, Branching Larkspur, Slrawberry Spinach, 
Evening Primrose, Coreopsis Tioctorea, Sweet Wil- 
liams, Finks, all kinds of Poppies and Gillias. 

There are many kinds that do not endure (he frost, 

it which vegetate much earlier by the seeds passing 
the winter in the earth. Among these, the Marvel of 
Peru, Double Balsamine or Lady's Slipper, Cypress 
Vine, Euphorbias, Sweet Peas, Convolvolus, &c., stand 

E re-eminent. These, however, answer nearly as well 
y planting in March, April, and May ; and indeed, 
we have seen seeds of all the varieties, aown in June, 
flowering beautifully when the others were nearly 
ended. As soon as a flower begins to fade, pinch it off, 
and you will have several more equally as fine, to take 
its place, besides always having your plant neat. The 
strength given by the plant, to ripen seed, would then 
be thrown into the production of fresh flower buds. 

BienniaU are such as are of two years' duration ; 
being sown one year, they flower, seed or fruit the 
next, and soon after decay. Sow the seeds during 
April, either in spots where (hey are to remain, or in 
beds by themselves, distinctly marked ; to be trans- 

Jilanted to desired situations early in the Fall. The 
bUowing are among the most free-blooming and de- 
sirable sorts : Rose Campion, Holyhock, Snap Bragon, | 



Canterbury Bella, Wall Flower, Foxglove, Finks, 
Dwarf Evening Primrose, and their varieties. 

PerenniaZ herbaceous plants are those which die 
down to the root yearly ; the roots of which remain 
many years. There is no class of plants more deserv- 
ing general culture in the flower garden than peren-' 
nials ; for when once introduced they require hut tri> 
fling attention : their increase Is also of the most en- 
couraging nature, being, in most varieties, effected 
by simply dividing or parting the roots in the autumn 
or spring. Herbaceous plants may be divided into 
three classes, viz. — Bulbous, as the Tulip, Hracinth, 
and most Lilies j Tuberous, as the Dahlia andFaeony; 
and Fibrous, as the Phlox and Perennial Aster. These 
may again be divided into hardy and tender. Among 
the bulbs. Tulips and Hyacinths are hardy; the Ja- 
cobean Lily, Tiger Flower (Tigridia), and Gladiolus, 
are tender. In tuberous roots, the P^eony is hardy and 
(be Dahlia tender; and in fibrous, most kinds are 
hardy, although in many cases Ihey are killed by the 
winter and by wet saturating their crowns, on which 
account it is necessary they should be partially covered 
in winter to protect them from being injured in this 
manner. 



VINES. 

Prune hardy kinds in the Spring, by cutting out all 
dead or superfluous branches, regulating the remainder 
at an equal distance apart, when they are nailed wttb 
shreds of woollen or leather, or tied up neatly. In 
summer, prune so that the branches may not be too 
thickly crowded. 

Provagate by taking off joints where (her have 
rooted, and planting in the same manner and soil as the 
parent, in September. Cover the roots with fine earth, 
and keep moist. Some varieties, as the Honeysuckle 
and Clematis, are readily propagated by layers and 
cuttings. (See Plants.) 

PLANTS. 

Eoies should be pruned in the Spring : if allowed to 
grow straggling they neither thrive nor flower well. 
The rose always flowers from the young wood, and by 
being well trimmed more are thrown out The rose 
is easily propagated in a deep rich soil. The Moss 
Sose will thrive on a clay bottom. 

Althea, or Rose of Sharon, Snowballs, Honeysuckles, 
and most kinds of soft-wooded plants, may be propa- 
gated in the Fall or Spring, b}[ sticking cuttings one 
foot long, half-way down, ten inches apart, in moist 
shady ground, well dug and pulverized, with a north- 
ern aspect. Press the ground bard round the cutting. 
To propagate by layers, bend the plant down, making 
an incision to the under part of the shoot or joint about 
half an inch ; press perpendicularly two or three inches 
deep, and secure it in the ground, which must be well 
prepared. 

Inocuiate by taking well-ripened buds, say in July 
or August ; make an incision in the rind, taking care 
not to cut through the albumen nor into the wood: cut 
half an inch below and half an inch above the bud, 
with alwut half the wood and hark; press the rind 
gently back and insert the bud, carefully closingall 
around and binding with bars or other strings. The 
plants must be perfecUy healthy. 

Cold, late in the season, must be guarded against] 
Ihe tender plants removed to their winter quarters, and 
those that remain out through the winter. At>out the 
middle of November, protect all herbaceous plants by 
covering them on their crowns aud roots with long 
manure and leaves, tying the branches up neatly, and 
covering with straw so as to turn off the rain ana frost. 

Injects may be removed by a strong decoction of to- 
bacco juice, or one made of soft scap, sulphur^ and 
tobacco ; sponge or bathe over three or four (imes. 
Keep (he ground, fences, &c., dean about the floweia, 
by painting, whitewashing, &c. 



MANUAL, FOR PR0DIM3ING SILK. 



IS 



tn room», plants aliould eDjoy aa much of'the light 
ajid sun ffom the window as poasible, be oftcD turned, 

Siviug them a Buppty of fresh air in.finc, soft weather } 
ivent them of ail dead leaves, and water them as na- 
ture indicates liy the ffiirth drying in the pals. Too 
much water sours and rots, too little dries up the plant, 
and breeds insects, &c. Flanta in a growing slate re- 
quire more water. 

Seeds should be saved from the plants in t|]e health- 
iest stale, and those first ripe are the best. Clean the 
seeds, and preserve ooly those tliat are full and plump, 
throwing out those of a light quality. 

Zeaoes are the principal oi^ns of respiration, sy 
noaymouB with the lungs of animals. Dead or decay- 
ing leaves are apt to breed insects. 

PUmts of all kinds should be so situated that the 
aun and air may have free access to any part of the 
leaves, fruit, and all parts as far as possible. 

The Datiiia thrives best in a deep, rich, loamy soil, 
with the full benefit of sun and air. In winter, (he 
roots should in cleared of decaying parts, dead stalks 
or tubers, and kept' in a temperature a few degrees 
above freezing, for late flowers, plant late. Sow 
seed in May, ia open grounds ; but in a pot of light, 
rich, saody aoil, as early as first April, and transplaot 
alxiut middle of May. Divide the roots and plant in 
March as soon as the eyes b^in to push out, in pots or 
neen-house, and transplant when the weather is set. 
tied warm. 



FKUIT TKEES. 

Fruits, m a ripe and perfect stale, are beneficial to 
health, if not ealeo to excess. 

Stunted trees never become vigorous, nor when too 
long crowded in nurseries. 

In Grafting, 25 well placed are belter than 100 
grafts placed at random, and ten placed injudiciously 
will change (he whole top of a tree in a few years, 
when 200 grafts may be so aciltered as not materially 
to change the top of^tfae tree or ila fruit. Graft only 
on such as are sound and vigorous. 

Hatrgling oS limbs and branches and leaving 
stumps on the trees, which rot off and let the water 
into the trunk, soon destroys the tree; therefore al- 
wavs cut or saw- off smooth, when the wound will heal 
ana the bark grow over. 

SouTid vigorous trees, and no other, should be set 
out, as they take no more trouble or space than the 
worthless ones. 



Budding should only be done with ft'esh buds, on 
very small slocks of vigorous growth. Begin after sw 
starts, unlil IstJune. Later will do. Make incision 
like a T ; raise the corners and insert the bud with as 
lillle of the wood as possible, aad bandage, not too 
light, for three weeks. 

Sciona may be cut in February or March, before or 
at the time the buds begin to swell ; Or take graJts size 
of a pipe-stem, from bearing branches, not Irom side 
shoots nor the rank growth of the top. Put in earib 
one third their length, keep from frost, and occasion- 
ally sprinkle to prevent shrivelling, but not so wet as 
to sprout them. 

Composition.~RtBm 8 oz., beeswax 3 oz. ; melt op 
with lard, and work it like shoemakers' wax: for 
wounds made in pnnung or grafting. 

Split the stock, drive in a wedge 6 or 8 inches long, 
open the ^lit so as to admit the graft freely, sharpen 
end of graft and ini^ert, matching the wood of graft and 
wood of the stock j remove the wedge carefnlly, and 
cover smooth over with coDipositiou, tight, to exclude 
air, and the aap will force its way to the graft. 

5ced,— Select from healthy trees, sound, ripe and 
fair fruit, and place in sand, in a cellar or other cool, 
damp place, until time to plant. If kept too dry, they 
seldom vegetate. Let the soil be good, well worked^ 
not too wet; cover up and press the ground mode- 
rately over. Plant in Fall, before the ground is frozen, 
or in Spring sooo as the ground can be worked. 

Soil. — Low, wet or marshy ground is not suitable. 
Soil appropriate for crops of graiu is also adapted to 
the cultivation of fruit trees, shrubs or vines. Occa- 
sional digging, mellowing the ground, keeping down 
underbrush and weeds, and manuring, are beneficial, 

ClBaTilineas is essential. Destroy all caterpillars, 
DDxiouB worms and inseela, and prune off all affected 
parts. Scrape off rough ragged hark and oioss, and 
wash well with soap suds or eover with a coat of liiiiB- 
wash. Remove all suckers from (he rool^ side 
brancties and excrescences. 

Grubs, which occasion disease, may be prevented b* 
coating the roots and lower trunk, about July 1, witL 
tar, train oil, or whitewash, and sprinkling a little 
lime, ashes, or soap suds, on the ground around the 
tree. When seriously affected, dig the earth from the 
roots near the surface, and search thoroughly in the 
bark for the grub ; cleanse off the gum, £c., wash with 
ley or soap suds, or rub dry ashes o-ver (hem, and clbse 
up with good fresh earth. Doing Ibis aa occasion re- 
quires, will ensure health and vigour. 



A MANUAL FOR PRODUCING 

aining Directions for growing the Mulberry Tree, corn, observing a dry, sandy 

innmn? the I?s-?s. feeding t^p. Wnrmn. Rnniirin? vellv. or Gtonv soirs. nrodUce 



SILK, 



Containing Directions for growing the Mulberry Tree, 
managing the Eggs, feeding the Worms, securing 
(he Cocoons, aod 'reeline the Silk ; comprising the 
whole process of Silk Miking. Compiled f^om au- 
thentic sources, by the Secretary of the " National 
Association for Promoting the Silk Culture in the 
United States." Philadelphia, January, IS40. 



Planting. — In the Middle States, plant the morns 
mullicaulie from the I5th of April to the I5lh of May 
— a little later or earlier, according (o the season. The 
ground to be made fine ; furrows three or four feet 
anarl ; distance in the furrow about the same. Some 
plant one, and others one foot and a half apart. The 
more distant, the more the tree will branch ; but the 
increase of siirface to cultivate, increases the labour. 
Plant the lai^ers or branches entire, or cut them into 
two had cuttings, and bury them as yon would corn, 
but not too deep. Be careful the first weetlisg. Hot, 
onfennenled manure, is had. This part of the busi- 
ness requires about the same skill ana.management as 



corn, observing a dry, sandy loam ; sandy, light gra- 
velly, or stony soirs, produce the sweetest leaf and 
the finest silk. An acre wilt bold 14,500 trees, the 
rows three feet wide, and trees one foot apart in the 
row ; or it will contain, if three feet each way, 4840 
trees. 

PresBTviTig Eggs.—'Rev. Mr. M'Lean says he folded 
his eggs in a small tea-chest, liued with lead, and co- 
vered with flannel. This box was placed in one a 
size larger, and the space between filled with char- 
coal, covered with a loose board. Place in an ice-house 
or cool cellar, where the heat will not rise above 45 
degrees. Dennis says, put eggs in a glass jar, covered, 
and set in the ground Iwo-lhirds of its height in a cool 
cellar. Roberts says, use tin box or glass, not stopped 
tight, and keep'in a drv, cool cellar, or any other cool 
pUce where water will not freeze. 

Some experienced Silk-growers think the retarding 
process is unnatum) and improper, and that hatching 
may be regulated to suit, at the same time, the require- 
ments of nature and the supply of food. (See Journal 
of Am. Silk Society. ByG. B. Smith, E8q.,Baltimore,] 



16 



MANUAL FOR PRODUCING SILK. 



Tlie Cocoonery.— Cool, airy siluations, are best, 
euardiag as far as possible against extremes of sudden 
beat or cold, dampness, or too great dryness. Cobb, 
Smilb, Terhoven, and otbers, agree in three tiers of 
pine boards fixed on upright posts, four feet wide, and 
two and a half feet above oae another, with room to 
pass all around the frame so as easily to reach any part 
of it. 

The Hatching. — Hatch the eggs in a pasteboard box, 
or on sheets of paper, a table, or shelf. An ounce will 
give about 30,000 worms, and upwards. Those that 
appear red when batched are worthless, and should be 
thrown away. Give (he worms young leaves, tc 
which tbey will adhere; then raise tbe leaf, and thUE 
convey them to their proper places. Keep off rats, 
mice, roaches, and spiders, aud especially ants, which 
guard against by smearing the upright posts, ends, &c., 
with tar or molasses, or set the ends in a cheap pan, 
which fill with water. Hatch when your leaves are 
BufBciently forward to insure a supply. 

Tfie Feeding. — Give the young worms as many cut 
leaves as they will eat, and no more, feeding eight or 
ten times a day, and as late at night as you can. Nei- 
ther stint the worms nor waste the leaves. The leaves 
should be fresh, clean, and not wet. (Since this 
Manual was eompiled, an important invention has 
been patented, by Mr. Edmund Morris, Burlington, N. 
J., which in its simple, rapid and econnmical opera- 
tion, not only promises io supersede all other modes of 
feeding, but to effect a revolution in the business itself 
forming a new era in the history of Silk Culture.) 
Mr. MXean fed his worms without hurdles, removing 
tbe litter every third day. Keep the worms quiet, 
well ventilated, and do not handle or kill them by too 
much care. Air-slacked lime sprinkled over the 
shelves, and lightly over the worms themselves, once 
in two or three days, during the latter part of the feed- 
ing, is found highly advantageous. Some have pro- 
duced a pound of silk from only 50 or 60 poune^ of 
leaves, but 150 pounds is a fair and ample allowaqce. 

The FTinding-.— Straw tied in small bundles and set 
on the shelves will do, but green oak bushes seem 
more natural to them, which they like to conceal them- 
eelvea among. 

I^eserving Cocoom.— Gather the cocoons from the 
seventh to tbe tenth day, and spread them to dry. 
Select those intended for seed, atrip off the floss, spread 
them out thin, and in two or three days the moths eat 
out. Each female lays al)out 450 eggs, on muslin or 
paper hung up. The moth in your silk cocoons, im- 
mediately kil!, either by exposing to a hot sun under 
glasses, or by baking in an oven not too hot, or suffo- 
cate the moth b;' burning charcoal in a close room ; in 
each case omitting the operation as soon as the worm 
IS dead, which ascertain by opening a cocoon. Gen- 
erally from a half to one or two hours will answer. 

Reeling.— The Piedmontese Reel is the best, and is 
sold for about 15 dollars. For the double operation of 
reeling and twisting, Brooks' machine has received thfl 
highest commendation— price 40 dollars. To transport 
cocoons, pack (hem in dry boxes or barrels, shaking 
them down, but be careful not to mash or indent them. 
In measuring, the bushel is heaped if the floss is on, or 
level with it off. ' 

Those who prefer reeling (hemaelves, m^y readily do 
so b^; observing the following 

XHrections.—BefoTe the reeling is commenced, the 
cocoons must be stripped of their floss, and sorted into 
separate parcels, according Io quality. The fine co- 
coons are strong, hard, and of a fine close grain : the 
demi-fine are larger, and of a more loose open grain ■ 
the double cocoons are those formed by two worms, the 
fibres cross each other, and renders Ihem diiBcult to 
reel ; the aofi, thin, and coarse cannot be reeled. 

Have a large basin of soft water, and keep at a proper 
heat by charcoal, or any other convenient method. 
Cocoons of the best quality will require a greater de- 
gree of heat than those of a loose and more open texture 
Cocoons also require less heat, and reel belter, when 



done before the chrysalides are killed and thu cocoons 
become dried. The heat of the water may be raised 
to near^the boiling' point, when a handful or twn of 
cocoons may be thrown into the basin, which jnust bo 
gently pressed iinder the water for a few minutea,'with 
a little brush made of broom corn. The beat of the 
water will soon soften the gum of the silk, and tberehy- 
loosen tbe ends of the filaments ; you then stir the co> 
CO0D8 as gently as possible with the brush, until aibme 
of the filamente adhere to it: they are then separated 
from the brush, which is laid .aside, and -the filaments 
raised up and the cocoons gently combed down between 
the fingers, as they are raised out of the wafer; this is 
continued, until the floss and false ends are all'drawn 
off, and the fine silk begins to appear, the fibres are 
then broken off aud laid over the edge of the basin ; lhs 
floss is then cleared from tbe brush and laid aside as 
refuse silk, and the operation continued unUl a sufficient 
number of libres are thus collected to make a thread of 
the size required ; you then unite the fibres, and passing 
the thread through the eyes or guides, attach it to one 
of the arms of (be reel. When two skeins are intended 
to be reeled, another thread is prepared in like man- 
ner, and passed through other guide wires and attached 
to the reel. The threads being fastened to the reel, it 
is turned with a steady motion, until the threads run 
freely and easily, for it will happen that some of the 
ends taken to compose the thread will prove false, ^n3 
will require to be again added anew to keep up fho 
number designed for the thread. It is necessary to put 
in more cocoons than is intended to continue. While 
the reel is turning, the reeler must continually be 
gathering fresh ends to add to the thread as they may be 
required, because the internal fibres are much finer thaa 
those composing tbe external layers. In adding freib 
ends, tbe reeler must attach them to the thread that 'is 
reeling, by gently rolling Ihem betvveen tbe thumb and 
finger, A handful of cocoons must occasionally bo 
thrown into the basin, and wholly immersed in the 
water, to be ready as wanted, to keep up the thread of. 
the size required ; care, however, sboold be taken not 
to add cocoons faster than is necessary for this purpose-, 
for by being too long soaked in the hot water, they wilt 
wind olT in burrs. As fast as the silk is reeled o^ the 
chrysalis should be taken out of the basita. Have your 
fingers smooth. 

When the water becomes discoloured it Bhonld alwayt 
be changed, say two or three times dailv. 

When the cocoons are first put into Jhe vrater, if the 
silk comes off in bunches upon the brush, it is a sign 
the water is too hot; or if in reeling itrunsoffinbarrs^ 
it is too hot ; when the ends cannot be caught, or whea 
caught, do not run freely, the water is toe cold. A 
pail of cold water should always be at hand, to ba- 
added to tbe basin as occasion mav require. When the 
cocoons give their threads freely, the reel may be 
turned with a quicker motion, for the quicker thii' 
motion the better the silk winds off. 

Intrinsic value of Trees.— A eood tree will yield 
from three to five cents worth of silk, more or less, 
according to the skill and care in its management. 
The capital which will yield this percentage is perhaps 
the only correct criterion by which to fix the value of 
the article. In Italy, each full grown mulberry tree 
3 the government an annual tax of sixteen cents, 
the early friends of the silk cause persevere in their 
efforts to introduce this important branch of national 
industry and wealth into tbe country. 



THE SILK CULTURE. 
The millions of dollars annually exported in specie 
to pay for silk— the superiority of the silk grown in the 
United States, and the ease with which, by proper ma- 
nagement, it is produced— tbe adaptation of our soil and 
climate to its culture — tbe highly favourable reports 
made by committees in Congress, and in several Slate 
legislatures— the fact that the actual produce of sUk in 
1840 exceeded twenty-five thousand pounds — the recent , 



BIRDS. 



17 



American improTementi by which the cost of feeding 
ii BO greatly r«duced| and the pm^bilily of aduty being 
laid on foreign silk— the fact that h ^mer may raise a 
fbfr pounds of silk without neglecGng bis other cropa 
or any additional expense, and that were each farmer 
to do BO, the balaiace'af trade waiild bjC turned so largely 
in our'faTOur, and a stop put to the incessant DRAIN 
of SPECIE, are among the private and public reasons 
that should dispose all to give the silk culture at least a 
fair trial. 

Goreroor Seward, of New Tork, in his recent mes- 
sage, presents the most cogent reasons for the advance- 
iqent of the Silk culture, and the ioiporlant fact, that 
two small districts in Italy, possessing less natural ad- 
vantages than that State, export silks annually to the 
amountof twenty-five miUions of dollars. 

The instmctioo condensed in the foregoing Manual, 
ia believed to be sufficient for any intelligeot mind. 



Furlher information will be abundantly supplied in the 
monthly Journal on Silk, by G. B. Smith, Baltimore, 
Md., or by E. Morris, Burlington, N. J, 

DUTY ON SILK. 
In 1839 the imports of Silk amounted to 22,838,028 
dollan i of which nearly ^,000,000 dollars was free of 
duty. Had a fair duty been imposed on this Silk, the 
impoverished treasury of the country would have gained 
5,000,000 dollars, and the counlry itself would have 
been twnefited many million dollars more, in aiding 
the home production of the article. It may well be 
said, (hat in imposing duties on all our produce, olher 
countries evince a determination to protect tbeir own 
industry, to encourage their own citizens, in short, to 
lake care of themselves, leaving us to argue about the 
doctrine of free trade, which is free only upon one side, 
and whose only tendency, so far, has been to drain our 
country of its precious metals. 



BIRDS. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FEEDING AND GENERAL MANAGEMENT. 



Canaria become delicate and feeble from improper 
treatment. Their docility, beauliflil plumage, and 
sweetness of notes, render them general favoufites. 
When young, feed on a paste made by bruising rape 
seed, blowing (he chalF away, mixed with pieces of 
bread powdered. Give a tea-spoonful with a litlle 
hard egg and a. few drops of water, when turning sour, 
mix fyeah. Add as they grow older, scalded rape seed 
without bruising, chonp^ almond and chickweed, in 
hot weather twice a day. If sick, give milk of hemp 
seed, made by bruising clean se^ and straining it 
(brough ilneo into water, taking the waier glass away 
from the sick. As they advance in age, give rape and 
canary, and occasioDalfy bruised hemp seed, taking Ihe 
soft food away by d^ees. Cutlle-fish boue ia pre- 
ferable to loaf sugar.- Cakes, apples, berries, bread 
soaked, the water squeezed out and milk added, arc 
good, and cabbage occasionally, when in season, is ex- 
cellent 

Perohei should he ronnd and strong without crevices 
or shoulders for insects to breed or harbour, and every 
comer of the eage should he brushed out and kept tho- 
roughly clean. 

Zm Clavu are sometimes so long as to occasion ac- 
eideols by catching in the wires, in which case trim 
tbeiQ. 

Mortar placed in the cage facilitates the production 
oleg^, 

TfeOCA singing hyaeparating the bird from tfaeothers, 
so that he may hear no singing, cover his cage for a 
few days with a thin cloth, then play your flngeolet or 
Irird organ several times each day, wirbont harshness. 
At the end-of fifteen days, change the thin cloth for a 
thick green or red serge, and keep covered till perfect 
in Ihe air ^oa wish (o (each. Feed once a day and 
night. It_|ti^ heller to teach one good tune well th^tn 
several jinp^fectly. The tiird Will copy all iniper- 
fectioni.'. 

' Sad or duU' singers are improved by heaiiog the 
more spirited and perfect. 

_Surjeit indicate^ by ^welKng of tower part of body, 
^Dd occasioned by too.mtich "cnickweed, salad, or soft 
fbod. Put alum ih the water for three or four days, or 
piff aTii^^ nail in thie water, or common salt Put the 
R^^ if Dad, in lulcewarm milk a few minutes, (hen 
wuh with water,~wipe aq| dry gently. 



Sick Sirds may have boiled bread and milk with 
canary seed boiled in it ; lettuce seed, and when moult- 
ing, or renewing its feathers, indicated by drooping, 
putting ils head under its wing, dropping small feathers, 
give nourishing food, as hemp seed, sponge, biscuit, &c. 
keep warm and quiet, and keep much in Ihe bud. A 
cold air or draft is injurious. Put in the water a little 
refined liquorice. 

Sky Larhs.—Teei on seeds, but rarely on insects. 
Give salad leaves, gravel with a bit of green sod. 

Red Sird.—Teei on seeds of all kinds, whortle- 
berries, cherries and other frnits, insects. Sic 

JlTTurican Fellow jBird. — Beautiful plumage and 
fine sotig. They are hardy, and the cage should be 
often hung out. Give plenty of water, gravel, rich 
oily seeds, with occasional sunflower and lettuce seeds ; 
leaves of beet, salad, apples, and other fruits. 

Gold Finch, — Treat similar to American Yellow 
Bird. 

Cardinal Groaheak- — Of splendid plomage and ex- 
quisite song. I'hey are hardy and may be kept with- 
out fire in a room most of the winter, except Id the 
northern states. Allow frequent air and sun. Feed 
on rough unhulled rice and hemp, wheat, browji gravel, 
crack«l corn, and millet occasionally, with plenty of 
water for bathing. These birds are long lived, Ihe 
Philadelphia Museum having one which died when 
twenty-one years old. 

Java Sparrow. — Very deltcale, with pret'y plumage;, 
but lillle mutiic. Feed on unhulled rice and canary 
seed, with plenty of brown gravel. 

Purple Finch or Linnet. — A delightful songster. 
Give canary, hemp, millet, and sun«6ower seeds, with 
juniper and cedar berries through the winter, salad and 
beet tops in summer. 

Any olber of ihe Finch tribe may be fed on seeds 
generally, as the preceding. Perfect cleanliness of the 
cage, and a constant supply of fresh water and gravel 
are esienlial. 

Baltimore Oriole. — A bird of delighlful plumage 
and rich brilliant music, weitrepaying the utmost care. 
They eat fruit of all kinds, seeds, insects, &c Give 



18 



NEWSPAPERS. 



tbem a large cage, protection from froat, and an abua- 
dance of insects. Rear sane as Mocking Bird. 

E(ut India Oriole. — FosGeuea greater muaical 
powers, and is to be treated same as tbe Baltimore. 

.Smerican Mocking Bird.— The sweet "Bird of 
many Voices," imitating almost every variety of notes 
and sounds imaginable. Feed regularly every morning 
wilb Indian meal mixed with milk, not very stiff. 
Give wild cherries, cedar, elder, polie and wborll» 
berries. An occasional egg, boiled hard and grated ; 
a litlle raw minced beef, water for washing as well as 
drink, with plenty of insects, grasshoppers, spiders, par- 
ticularly during moulling, when they should be kept 
quiet and away from cola drafts of air. 

JUgular Feeding is important. Adopt a regular 
hour, say eight in the morning for feeding and watering, 
and strictly adhere to it. 

IfSicldy, treat kindly, give spiders daily, and meal 



worms; gravel the bottom of tbe cage and Keep very 
qniet. 

Tfi£ Male has a regular line of while feathers in the 
wing, forming almost a regular curve from tip to 
shoulder. 

jimerican TtoZnn.— Sprightly, beautiful and musical. 
Treat similar to Mocking Bird. 

Sed Bird or Bob-o'link.—ls apt to die in November, 
if too well fed. Give oats, buckwheat, and canary 
seed, and abundant water for bathing. At other seasons 
feed same indiscriminately, as the Finch tribe. 

Sed Wine or Swamp Blackbird. Treat same as 
Bob^o'linlE. 

ChicMaeed or salad, which In proper season is ex- 
cellent, are absolutely poison if given loo early, befoie 
the bitterness is off, and the colaacrid juicea are dissi- 
pated by the Eun. 



NEWSPAPERS. 



The importance of good newspapers 
cannot be over-rated. The following 
high testimony in their favour, in an ex- 
tract of a letter from the "Father of his 
Country," to the late Mathew Carey, 
Esq. was written June 25, 1788. 

"For myself I entertain a high opinion 
of the utility of periodical publications. 
I consider such easy vehicles of know- 
ledge more happily calculated than any 
other, to preserve the LIBERTY, stimu- 
late the industry, and meliorate the mo- 
rals of an enlightened and free people." 
[Signed] ' George Washington. 

JVo Family should be without one or 
more newspapers. It cultivates in chil- 
dren a desire for reading, and a disposi- 
tion to learn and improve, renders them 
considerate, intelligent, and more easily 
governed. 

The number of newspapers in England 
is 230, and the annual average number 
of convictions for murder is thirteen. 
The number of newspapers in Spain a 
few years ago was one, and the annual 
number of convictions for murder was 
upwards of twelve hundred. 

How many thoughtless young men 
have spent their evenings in a tavern 
or grog-shop, which ought to be devoted 
to reading! how many parents who 
never spent twenty dollars for books or 
for papers for their families, would glad- 
ly have given thousands to reclaim a son 
or a daughter who had ignorantly and 
thoughtle'ssly fallen into temptation ! 

^n Editor^s positionis oneof great re- 
sponsibility, too often misunderstood or 
unappreciated, and too frequently as- 
siiined by- the vicious and incompetent. 
The only correction is in the people's 
withholding patronage from such news- 



papers, as indulge in personal abuse and 
immoralities, which make some news- 
papers as great a curse to the commu- 
nity rfs others are blessings. 

The Encouragement bestowed on the 
press should be prompt, liberal, and 
always in advance. Advance payments 
are rendered essential to the welfare, if 
not existence of a newspaper, from the 
smallness of the sums, the distance to 
which they are scattered, and the diffi- 
culty of collecting, arising from the ab- 
sence of subscribers when called upon, 
the want of preparation when found, 
and the various delays, vexations, and 
expenses, always attending the collec- 
tion of many small sums. Besides the 
impositions to which publishers are ex- 
posed, should make their real friends 
willing- to concur in the only rule which 
can anord protection against dishonest 
delinquents. 

A person receiving a newspaper is 
bound by law as well as custom and jus- 
tice, to pay for it so long as he may con- 
tinue to receive it, notwithstanding any 
agreement or direction that may have 
been made for its discontinuance. 

" A newspaper can drop the same 
thought into a thousand minds at the 
same moment. A newspaper is an ad- 
viser who does not require to be sought, 
but comes to you of its own accord, and 
talks to you briefly every day of the 
common weal, without distracting your 
private affairs. Newspapers, therefore, 
become more necessary in proportion as 
men become more equal, and individuals 
more to be feared. To suppose that they 
only serve to protect freedom, would 
be to diminish their importance; they 
maintain civilization." 



HEALTH. 



19 



ADMONITION. —The (avera-haunter drinks 
t^l he reels himself half-ruined; he ia wretched; he 
drinks to drown his wretcbedaess j he does drowu it, 
aud his soul along with it ! 

To young men, beginning life, especially lo newly 
married moo, ttaa couiuel is seasauable: Reoercnce 



the Fireside. Admit no rival here. Let your chief 
joya bo shared by her \vtio has forsaken all other 
hearts and hopes for you ; by those who must inherit 
honour or disgrace from your cpurae of life, ShuD the 
bar-room and tbe purlieus of intoxicatioa. They are, 
to thousands, the aveouea to infamy. 



HEALTH. 



PUBLIC ECOi^OMY AND PUBLIC 
HEALTH. 

It has been n-ell said, by a recent writer, that if part 
of the large sunts expended on ovei^fed Hospital pa- 
tieots, and pampered uurses, on renis and Dispensaries, 
and outlay of medicine, were appropriated to tlie. pro- 
vention ofdistases among the poor, it is probable [hat 
more extensive benefits would be conferred, than cin 
bo afforded in the limited and local range of Infirma- 
Ttes. If half the amount annually spent in tbe pur- 
chase of liquors and medicines, for charitatjle institu- 
tions, were early and jutUdousiy laid out in precau- 
tioQaiy means of preventing diseases among the indi- 
gent, the hoepital would have fewer inmates, and the 
aGylums for orphans would not be so crowded. Among 
these preventive means be it added, that the chief are 
to ward off the evils of intemperance, and to protect 
the system against atmospherical inclemencies. 

Tbe expense of an establishment in every village, 
fne ta the. poor., or at least at a small nominal rate, 
where Ihey could eaiaj the advantages of warm and 
tepid baths, with a drying stove for their clothes, and 
such other auxiliary means as humanity might suggest, 
would be a minor consideration, when put in competi- 
lioD with the benefits resulting to Uie working classes, 
in warding off impending diseases, and the inevitable 
ruin which is almost invariably atlendant in their 
train. 

Almoat every village has its alma-house. True char- 
ity ought to be displayed in preventing the necessity for 
such buildings. Now we hazard little in asserting 
that, if ander tbe same roof were to ba found public 
baths, a public library, and a hall for a temperance as- 
sociation, the poorer inhabitants of our towns and vil- 
lages would be healthier than at present, and in place 
of being a burden, would contribute their share to the 
support of the slate. 



DIETETIC MAXIMS. 

L A healthy appetite is to be acquired by early 
rising, regular exercise in the open air, and abstiaence 
from inloxicatiog liquors. 

2. The food sboulif be eaten slowly, and well masti- 
cated. 

3. Animal food is sooner digested in the stomacl^ 
than vegetable; but it is more slimulatiDg or healinz 
lo tbe system. Flesh long salted, dried hama, beef, 
&C., are less easily digested and less nutritive than fresh 
meaL 

4. Farinaceous and vegetable food, generally, is slow- 
er of digealion than animal, but it is less heating. 

5. Solid food, orfbod of a certain fibrous or pulpy 
cODsistence, is-more fitted for digestion in the stomdch 
Uun rich soups, jellies, and all bigbly concentrated 



6. Fish are not so Dourisbiog as the flesh of land an- 
imals. The while fish are less apt to disagree with 
the stomach than the red. 

7. Boasted meat is more nourishing than boiled, but 
much more stimulating, 

8. Bread should be perfectly raised, fully baked, and 
one day old. 

9. Salt, and a moderate quantity of pepper, are 
safe : beyond this, all seasoning becomes injurious, 

10. Different dishes at one meal, ipterfere with di- 
gestion, 

1 1. All excess in eating should be avoided. The 
best guide is to be found in the calls of a healthy ap- 
petite. 

12. Health, and strength of body, depend upon the 
health of the stomach and consequent perfection of the 
digestive powers. 

13. Water is the most wholesome drink. Toast and 
water, sweetened water, or water with a slight addi- 
tion of a vegetable acid, are useful diluents during the 
summer. 

14. Distilled aud fermented liquors impede diges- 
tion; and, when drunk lo any extent, invariably de-" 
slrov the tone of the stomach, and of tlie system gene- 
rally. 

15. When the stomach is weak, but lillle fluid 
should be taken during or after eating. 

16. Sxcrcise should be used in tlie intervals between 
meals, but not immediately before or after them. 



There are few things in relation to which people 
commit more egregious errors, than the proper assist- 
ance to t>e rendered to individuals to whom an acci- 
dental injury has occurred. In that of a wound at- 
tended With a profuse discharge of blood, the patient's 
life would be destroyed by a few moments^ delay ; 
while in every case a trifling injudicious interference 
in the offset, may add greatly lo the subsequent danger 
and suETering : it is important therefore that the public 
generally be made aware of the proper course to be 
pursued, when an accident occurs, previously to the 
arrival of the physician. 

R^itnrf*.— The only proper dressings for these acci- 
dents are such as are best calculated to keep tli^ 
wounded surfaces in contact, and to defend them from 
the air and' external injury. Tbe milder and softer the 
materials of which they are composed^ the belter: 
above all, everything of a heating or irritating nature 
shoi||d be avoided. A simple cut, which might have 
been healed perfectly in a few days, has often been 
convened into a serious, painful, and tedious sore, by 
such applications as brandy and sugar, turpentine, bal- 
sams, and the like ; or by having crammed between 
its edges a quantity of lint, tow, soot, charcoal, or cob- 
webs; all of which are frequently resorted lo. They 
invariably induce a d^ree of inflammation, which in- 
terrupts tbe healing process of nature. 

When a wousa has been received, tbe first thing 
that claims attention is the presence of any foreign 
substance, as splintera of wood, portions of stone, glass, 
or bilB of cloln, &c. These should, if possible, be at 



20 



HEALTH. 



once extracted, and the wound washed with a soft 
sponge or ra§ and water. But when ihe exhaustion of 
the patient is considerable, or the flow of blood pro' 
fuse, whatever forei^ substances mny be contained in 
Ihe wound, must be sufiTercd to remain unlil, in (he 
judgment of the physician, it may be safe to attempt 
tbeir extraction. 

The bleedinjc from a wound, even (hough at first 
profuse, will often in a short time cease spontaneously, 
andj if the injured part be kept at perfect rest, will not 
again return. Should this, however, not be the c9.se, 
and the flow of blood is very considerable, especially 
if it be in a continued stream or in jets, it should be 
arrested without delay, by making pressure upon the 
divided vessels, between the heart and the wound. 
When Ihe injury has been received in either of the 
limbs, a firm broad ligature or bandage should he ap- 
plied a short distance above the wound. The best plan 
IS to place around the limb a strong broad garter, suffi- 
ciently slack to allow of a short slick being introduced 
under if, and by which it is to be twisted until it is 
tight enough to arrest the bleeding. Of course, this is 
merely a temporary expedient, as the continuance of 
such a bandage tor any length of time would be pro- 
ductive of injury. In wounds situated in a part of the 
Iiody where the above means cannot be resorted to, the 
bleeding may be arrested by applying Ihe hand firmly 
over the wound ; or, by the finger passed within Ihe 
wound, pressure may be made directly upon the orifice 
from which the blood proceeds. 

In slight wounds^ which do not penetrate much 
deeper than the skin, nothing better can be applied 
than the common sticking-plaster. This, by keeping 
the edges of the cut together, and preventing the con- 
tact of the air, Slc, permits the process of union to go 
on without interruption. 

Persons who have received a severe wound, or in- 
deed a severe injury of any kind, ought always to be 
kept at rest, and perfectly composed. The part espe- 
cially in which the wound exists, should be prevented 
from any degree of motion, and be kept as elevated as 
possible without ils being placed in any constrained 
posture. Quiet and cheerfulness of mind are also of 
impi#tancc. 

_ Sprains mid Sruises. — The part in which these ac- 
cidents have been received must be kept^t perfect rest, 
elevated, and cnmple'ely free from any heavy dressings 
or tight bandages. The best immediate applications 
are cloths wet with cold water or cold vinegar and 
water. It is a very common error, whenever any se- 
vere accident of Ibis kind occurs, to have the indivi- 
dual immediately bled. In all cases of accident, much 
evil is liable to be produced by the loss of blood before 
the' system has in some degree recovered from the de- 
pression into which it is invariably thrown upon Ihe 
receipt of any severe injury ; it is betler always to de- 
lay bleeding until Ihe advice of a physician can be 
procured. 

Bums and Scalds. — When of moderate extent, and 
occasioning only a redness of the skin, the best imme- 
diale application to a bum or scald is cold water or 
cold vinegar. The application or immersion should 
be continued for some considerable time, and without 
a monlent's intermission. When Ihe skin is raised in 
large blisters, these should be puncture! ; after which 
a mixture of one part of linseed oil and two of lime- 
water, smeared over the burnt surface, will be found a 
very soothing application. The buml part may Ihen 
be wrapped in raw cotton. When the burn is exlen- 
sive, and has completely destroyed the skin, Ihe appli- 
cation of spirits of turpentine is attended with the best 
effects: care should be taken to confine it to the in- 
jured parts, not allowing it to come in contact with the 
sound skin. As the ulcer consequent on a burn is 
always tedious in healing, and, when mismanaged, 
liable to b^ attended with an unsightly scar, or even 
extensive deformity, the attendance of a physician 
should be procured. 



tkeatmeNt of drowned persons. 

As soon as the body is recovered, wipe it dry, and 
wrap it up in blankets, and place it in some conveuient 
place, with the head slightly elevated; having free 
ventilation in hot weather, and allowing no persons to 
be present except those employed in operating, lal 
the head be wiped dry, and covered with a woollen cap. 
Several attendants should t>e employed in I'ubbingthe 
body with stimulating articles, such as mustard, hot 
brandy, &c., and bags of hot sand, hot bricks, &c., ap- 
plied to the feet aod other parts of the body, Wbile 
this is being done, the mucus should be removed from 
the mouth and nostrils, and other persona should be 
employed in inflating the lungs, as follows: Insert the 
pipe of a common pair of bellows into one nostri], 
close the other nostril and the mouth, then blow gent^, 
and cause the air to escape by pressing on the cheat, 
having first removed the finger from the Qostril. This 
is to be continued for a long time, the object being to 
imitate tlie process of breathing. Let this plan of 
treatment be pursued until the arrival Of a physictan. 



CAUSES OF DISEASE. 

Insufficient Exercise,~-Hs who does not spend seve- 
ral hours every day in some active exercise, must in> 
evitably suSer from a diminution of l>odiIy strenglh, 
defect of appetile, and imperfect digestion, and bb< 
comes sooner or later the subject of disease, 

XMte riHng a/nd late retiriTig. — There are few 
things which contribute more to shorten life, than Ihe 
habit of keeping late houni, and consequently of riBing 
ft-om bed late in the morning. The advances of weak- 
ness and disease from this cause are, it is true, by very 
gradual steps, but not the less cerlaia to be ullinuilelf 
felt, 

breathing impure air.— A constant supply of firesh 
air is highly important. The air is rendered impure 
by being loaded with animal and vegetable exbalaliona, 
by its free circulation being prevented by a number of 
persons breathing it when confined in a close chamber, 
and by the processes of fermentation and combuslioo, 

InMtffidcrtt ablutions of the body, — It is not enough 
for the preservation of health, that merely Ihe hands, 
the feet, and the face be washed frequenily, but that 
the whole surface of the body be repeatedly purified. 
To all, the frequent use of the bath is an important 
means of preserving health. Means fbr bathing should 
be afibrded in every city, and in every extensive manu- 
factory. 

iTiattention to the dea/nliTKss of clothing and 
dwfiiHng'*.— Independently of the injury which the 
health of individuals sulfers from a neglect of strict 
personal and domestic cleanliness, the contamination 
of the air, from the decomposition of filth accumulated 
in and about a dwelling, has not unfi-equently commu- 
nicated disease to whole families and neighbourhoods. 
Repeatedly white-waahing the walh of a house, and 
scrubbing the floors, is not merely, therefore, a source 
of tasteful comfort, but a direct means of preservine 
health. 

Food rendered pernicious h/ modem cookery ; — 
Advlteration in foods amd drinks, and ahuse of ap- 
petite. — While a moderate quantity of plain whole- 
some food is essential to the maintenance of life, ;fll 
excess in its use, all complicated processes of cookery- 
keeping up the appetite beyond the wants of the sys- 
tem — are decidedly injurious. The health and strength 
,pf Ihe body are not supported by the quantity of food 
consumed, but only by so much as is capable of being 
converted, by the powers of the stomach, into pure 
chyle and blood. 

The unnecessary or imprudent use of medicine.— 
Domestic quackery has ruined many constitutions, A 
dose of medicine taken with the view of preventing 
an attack of disease, not unfrequently invites one 
which otherwise would not have occurred.' 



HEALTH. 



21 



Defective and imjiroper cIoIAinf.— Injury to health 

noe caused eitber by the clothes beiQg inadequate 
efend the wearer nxini the cold, or mm sudden 
changes in the weather, hy their impeding the free 
motions of the limhs, or by their compressing or bind- 
ing too firmly some part oi the body. 

The tTifluenee of cad.—Dt8ease is produced by ex- 
posure to the oight air or iaclement weather, after be- 
ing heated in crowded apartments, or b^ esercise, as 
dancing, ftc. In the poorer and improvident classes, 
cold, during winter, is a-conlinued and fruitful source 
of Boffering and disease. 

Juteau ajgplicatioa ijf ffte ntvrul.— Alternate i^t 
and activity, as well of the body as of the mind, are 
essential to the support of health. Long continued 
mental a^iplication, whether in study or the cares of 
bosinesB, wears tint the system^ and exhausts the pow- 
ers of life even more rapidly than protracted manual 
labonr. 

Oivinff way to the passions. — Experience fully 
proves that nothing contributes more eO^tually to 
guard the srstem from disease, and to prolong life, than 
a calm ana contented state of mind. In cnTtivating a 
peaceful and virtaouB dispoBitiao, a man not only in- 
Bores his happiness but promotes his health also. 

BeaTt'Stirrif Acidity of Stomadi, Water Brash. — 
These are some of the Bymptoms of indigestion. As- 
certain whether the stomach does not sufl^r most In 
this way, after eating particular articles of animal food, 
such as dried and salted meats and fish; and vegeta- 
bles, such as salads, radishes, tomatoes, cabl>age, and 
even potatoes. If no fault is found from these causes, 
let the inquiry next he made into drinks, and whether 
the accidental omission of a favourite beverage haa not 
given relief. Has fresh bread or hot toast been habitu- 
ally used with plenty of butter ? and if so, has stale 
bread ever been substituted in its place ? Is the corn- 
plainer a smoker or user of tobacco in any way ? If 
aoj he ousht to abandon entirely the use of Ibis weed. 
Disturbed slate of digestion coming on during the regu- 
lar and moderate use of proper food, the next question 
is, does the skin perfbnn its diUy 7 Is it properly co- 
vered" with clothes? are the ftCil kept dry and warm? 
are the pores kept free hy regular ablution and friction i 

Indigettion or Dysp^gia, which includes the fore- 
mentioned diBDrders, and numerous others, as well of 
the stomach as of the heart, is shown by irregular pal- 
pitation i of the Inogs, by aatbmatic fireathing ; of the 
brain, by head-ache, ill-nature, and strange fantasies. 
Here the dyspeptic must ask of him or herself the 
same questions as in the preceding paragraph, with the 
additional ones respecting regular daily exercise in (he 
open air, regular hours-of sleep, early to bed and early 
to rise, mastery of the passions, and an especial avoid- 
ance of anxious cares, envy, or jealousy. 

Bilioua disorders.~If a person is bilious, it is gene- 
rally owing to errors in regimen. I^et these be re- 
formed, and the comidainis will cease. But if a person 
would be always bifions^ let him be often taking calo- 
mel, or blue pill, or active purges, Lee's antibilious, 
tie., and he will certainly succeed : the soundest liver 
will not be proof against such remedies for bile. 

Coftiveness. — ^Accidental or occasional costiveness 
may readily b^ rendered habitual by oft swallowing 
purgative medicines; the proposed core will, when 
pernsted in, inevitably bring on the disease. If this 
latter, by time or imprudence, has become habitual, 
the only safe and effectual mode of relief will be in a 
suitable rsimen; still trying to jget the proper food — 
mild mucilaginous and saccharine substances of the 
vegetable, and plain, not too much cooked^ meats, 
among the animal kingdom. Add to this, suitable ab- 
lation, fricUonB of the skin, and ont-door exercise and 
labour, and the cure will be complete. 

JVaiefuiness.—The cure for this is not in laudanum 
and oj^ium, which, much used, constitutes a habit as 
pernicuniB to bealtb and morals as drinking ardent 
spirits. If something must be swallowed before going 



to bed, Id procure sleep, let it be half a pint of hot 
water: mind ! as hot as it can be sipped. But the true 
cure will be by omiitlng tea or coffee, whichever has 
been u^, in the evening; by taking plenty of exer. 
cise in the open air : working at something to produce 
a little fatigue ; and finally, rising early in the morn- 
ing, whether inclined to do so or not. Be up by times ; 
sleep not during the day ; and retiring in good time to 
bedj there is no danger hut you will sleep soundly 
dunng the night. 

Nervousness, low aHrits, sick head-ache. — The 
«iU3es are, bad habits, fahe indulgences. Leave Ibem 
oS, and the cure will be complete. Neglect this ad- 
vice, and you may be physicked until you arc a sha- 
dow, and your pocKels empty, and you will still be, if 
a iemale, hysterical ; if a male subject, hypochondri- 
acal — miserable yourself and the cause of misery in 
others. 



TOAST AND "WATER. 

An infusion of toasted bread in water, is one of the 
most salutary drinks that can be taken by the sick and 
valetudinary. A distinguished physician says, five or 
six cups of this water, with or without sugar, were 
more refreshing, and sooner took off any fatigue or un- 
easiness, than any strong wine, strong ale, small beer, 
warmed coffee or tea (for he ttied them all), or any 
other liquor that be knew of. 

It is seldom that toast and water ib {properly made, 
and we therefore thiidc it proper to furnish our readers 
with the following recipe ; 

Take a slice of fine and stale loaf bread, cut very 
thin (as thin aa toast is ever cut), and let it be carefully 
toasted on boih sides, until it be cormiletely browned 
ail over, but not blackened.or burned in any way ; put 
this into a common deep stone or china jug, and pour 
over it, from the tea-kettle, as much clear boiling wai- 
ter as you wish lo make into drink. Much depends on 
the water being actually in a boiling slate. Cover the 
pitcher with a saucer or plate, and let the drink be- 
come quite cold. It is then lit to be used ! the fresher 
made, the better, and of conrse the more agreeable. 

In dyspepsia, and a disordered state of the bowels, 
toaat and water ought to he the habitual drink. 



TiaHT DRESSING — CORSETS. 

The only rational form of dress is that which pro- 
tects the wearer from the vicissitudes and inclemency 
of the weather, and allows to the limbs their natural 
movements, and to all the parts and organs of the sys- 
tem the free performance of their appropriate func- 
tions. Every kind and article of drus which has a 
contrary effect, is absolutely injurioas to bealth, and 
ought at once lo he abandoned. 

The motions of the body, as well as its erect posi- 
tion, depend npon the action of numerous masses of 
flesh, endowed with the property of active contrac- 
tion, and denominated muscles. The perfection with 
which these perform their ofGce in either of the above 
respects, is always in proportion to their strength or 
tone, and their freedom from every artificial restraint. 
Now it is an invariable rule, that if constant pressure 
be made on any set of muscles, b^ means ot a tight 
dress or a bandage, they will soon diminish in size, and 
consequently lose both their power of supporting the 
body m its natural position, and their ability to pro- 
duce the easy and natural, or in other words, graceful 
movements of those parts to which they belong. This 
is strongly exemplified hy the state of a limb that has 
been ctmfined by the necessary dressings in conse. 
quence of a fracture, or hy those impostors who, in 
many of the European dties, bandage firmly their legs 
or arms until they are diminished frequently to one 
half their natural size, for the purpose of exciting 
commiseration and extorting alms, or of avoiding mili- 
tary duly. An unequivocal condemnation should he 
pronounced, therefore, on all those binds of dress 



22 



HEALTH. 



whicli compress, in the least degree, any part of the, 
trunk or limbs, and which in that manner cramp the 
free motion of the muacles, and reduce their size and 
plumpness. Tight lacing, by means of corsets or 
bands, and laces of all descriptions, as well as tight 
Bleevea and garters, invariably produce, more or less, 
these effects ; and so long as their uae is continued 
there is no means of obviating the injury which re- 
sults from (hem : and let it be recollected that this in- 
jury is always greater, the earlier in life they are 
adopted. 

We have not yet enumerated all the evils produced 
by firmly compressing the chest. Indefiencfeitlly of 
the uneasiness which this compression inflicts upon the 
female, from the constrained position she is forced by 
it constantly to assume, indicated by the frequent 
shrugging and writhing of her shoulders, and constant 
restlessness when in full dress, and which, of itself, 
often gives the back an ungraceful twiat, and throws 
the shoulders out of their natural position, other serious 
and permanent inroads upon health and beauty are 
effected. The pressure of the corset depriving, in a 
great measure, the muscles of the back, by which the 
upright position of the body is maintained, of their 
natural action, and the blood being prevented from cir- 
culating freely through their vessels, Ihey become re- 
laxed, and allow the body to bend ungraccrully either 
to one side or forwards : in time, the curvature of the 
spine which results, becomes permanent, aud the indi- 
vidual is often in this manner deformed for life. But 
this is not all : the health and vigour of the system, 
the freshness and brilliancy of the complesiou, the 
very activity and cheerfulness of the mind, depend in 
a very great degree upon the blood undereoine a per- 
feet purification in the lungs. This is cQected by its 
being brought in contact, in these organs, with a sufG- 
eienf amount of pure atmospheiicair: whatever im- 

Sedes the free expansion of the chest in breathing, and 
iminishes the amount of air inhaled into the lungs, 
prevents this purification of the blood from taking 
place. Now, the corset, by firmly compressing the 
chest and loins,, does this to a very great extent; so 
much so, that in all females who have been in the 
habit of wearing it from their youth, the chest has ab- 
solutely a diminished capacity, and loses that fine 
arched form which constitutes the beauty of the female 
bust. By numerous experiments it has been found that 
females thus circumstanced take into the lungs a much 
less amount of air than those who have never worn a 
corset. The vigour of the whole system becomes in 
consequence prostrated ; the akin assumes a sallow 
hue, and all the funclion^t of life are performed imper- 
fectly. The lungs and heart especially suffer, and in 
many cases become sooner or later the seat of incura- 
ble disease. The pressure by the corset upon the sto- 
mach and liver, is also highly prejudicial to health, by 
impeding digestion and the free secretion of bile; in 
this manner, independent of the injury inflicted upon 
the lungs, it causes discoloration of the skin, anda 
haggard, wrinkled appearance of the countenance. 'We 
urge, therefore, upon all, the disuse of this ridic)iIous 
and pernicious portion of female dress, which, so far 
from adding any real grace or beauty to the forni, is 
the cause of disease, Butlering, and deformity. We 
laugh at the folly of the Chinese belles, who compress 
their feet until Ihey are no longer fitted for walking ; 
and at the African, who flatten tlieir noses as an indis- 
pensable requisite of beauty ; and yet our own females 
are equally ridiculous, and even more criminal, when 
they imagine that they improve the beuuty of their 
chests and waists by distorting them from that form 
which nature has wisely imparted to Ihem ; and thus, 
by a perverted taste, entail disease and pain upon their 
idaughters^ or hurry them into an early grave. 



TIGHT LACING- 
A physician in Albany gives a heart sicliening ac- 
count of the decease of a fine and amiable younglady 
who fell a victim to fashion : she laced hei-self to 
death ! Apart from the prevailing iufalualion which 



leads females to commit elegant and refined suicide, 
she is said to have been an uncommonly intelligent 
and promising girl. The body presented a dreadful 
sight. The ribs were contracted, the chest was nar- 
rowed, and not half the natural room was left for the 
action of the heart and the inspiration of air into the 
lunga. The consequence waa death ! 



CAUSES OF DEATH AMONGST WOMEN. 
The Registrar-General of England reports that thir- 
ty-one thousand and ninety English women died in one 
year of that incurable malady, Cormtmption, Will 
not this impressive fact induce persons of rank and in- 
fluence to set their countrywomen right in the article 
of dress, and load them to abandon a practice which 
disfigures the body, straggles the chest, produces nerv- 
ous or other disorders, and has an unquestionable tend- 
ency to implant an incurable hectic malady in the 
frame ? Girls have no more need of artificial bunes 
and bandages than boys. 



CONSUMPTION. 

This di<<ease is, doubtless truly, considered more 
common than in former years. There are reasons for 
this. 

Half a century ago; people lived on common, sim- 
ple, healthful food and drink, and were healthy. In 
those days the dress of men and women was plain, and 
soiled to the climate in which they lived, and to th& 
various seasons of the year. At this time, how differ- 
ent 1 The fashions of the pleasure-seekers of Europe 
are brought to this country, and females of all classes 
endeavour to imitate them, until Consumption follows, 
and death ends the short race. 

In addition to a thin dress, their clothes are tight, the 
natural shape is crowded upon, and it is somelimES 
hard for them to stoop or breathe easy. A violent cold 
is taken, and a bad cough follows ; symptoms of con- 
sumption are feared and mentioned, ana at last it is 
seated, and the poor fashionable daughter or wife is 
taken away by what is called the Quick Consumption, 

THIN SHOES. 

Tlie practice of wearing thin shoes is too common 
among American women, and cannot be too strongly 
animadverted upon. Let those who thus throw them^ 
selves in the suicide's path reflect upon what they are 
doing. 

We say to every one, wear good sti^ng thick shoes, 
and overshoes whenever there is water or snow in the 
street. Never mind if your feet do look a little large; 
even If Ihey should appear clumsy. A little-looking 
foot is not of so much importance to health and happi- 
ness as a good pair of lungs ; and those who act the 
part of wisdom will dress to insure health, and let 
Fashion aud Fashion's fools go to destruction in the 
way that they love to travel, 

'Fastingf distinct from religious ordinances, has been 
frequently recommended and practised, as a means of 
removing incipient disease, and of restoring the biHly 
to its customary healthy sensations. Howard, the c^e- 
brated philanthropist, used to fast one day in every 
week. Franklin, for a period, did the same. Napo- 
leon, when he felt his system unstrung, suspended his 
wonted repasts, and tooK his exercise on horse-back. 
This list of distinguished names might) if oecessuy, be 



Baglivi, the celebrated Roman physician, mentions, 
that during Lent, an unusually large proportion of the 
sick in Italy recover their health. It is indisputable^ 
that the fastiionable classes in England and this country 
suffer from the effects of high living and the want of 
proper occupation. It is one of the greatest misfor' 
tunes that can befall human beings, to live without an 
aim ; to have no noble object constantly to draw forth 
the powers of the mind and the exertions of the body. 



HTEALTH. 



S3 



Croup requires ioatant attention. It arisea from 
colds and ehowa itself in tightness of the breast, dif- 
ficult breathing and fever. Immediately Boak the feet 
in warm water, bathe the throat and breaBtwith goose- 
grease, to which hartshorn may be added. Give a tea- 
Bpoanful of Hive Syrup to a child two or three ^cars 
old, and again in 15 minutes, until it causes vomitiog. 
If very baS, and no Hive Syrup at hand, then use, 1. 
Lamp Oil. 2. Goosegrease and Molasses, with Onion 
Juice. 3. Wins and Molasses. 4. Apply a plaster of 
Yellow SnuiT mixed with Lard to the breast: each 
are good. After (he symptoms are abated, give some 
mild pureptive. These remedies, promptly applied, 
can be relied on where the physician is not at band. 

PUea.—l oi. Cream Tartar, 1 oz. Salts Nilre, 1 oz. 
Jalap, 2 oz. Linitive Electuary. Mix stiff in molasses. 
Dose, 4 or 5 pills size of a pea. 

Vinegar (good) is useful in inflammatory and putrid 
diBordei's ; in weakness, binlings, or other hysteric af- 
fections, bathe, smell, or drink : it cools the blood, 
quenches thirst, extracts the firagrance from flowers, 
&C. That made from cider or wine is best. 

ChUdnn allowed to sleep with aged people, lose 
their health and decline. The same is probably also 
true, where the eick and the healthy habitually lie in 
the same bed. 

Toothacht is cured byjwwdered Alum, 2 drachma ; 
Jtfilrous Spirit of £tlier, 7 dracluns : mix. See Brcm- 
dy and Salt, 

Sair is preserved by Onion Juice and Brandy, rub- 
bed well in. Or, Tincture of Cantharides 10 parts, 
Hog's Lard "90 parts : to be mingled and rubbed into 
the roote. Or, one part of CantbarideH Powder to 
eight of alcohol, carefully mixed. ' 

Polypua of the Nostril is cured by the root of the 
lan^inaria canadensis, or blood root A decoc- 
tion is applied to the part. 

SJieumatitm. — Dissolve half oz. Camphor in pint 
Spts. Turpentine, and rub welt morning and night: 
then apply aOannel. Good also for Bums, Scalds, and 
Bruises. 

Frott-Siiten J^^.— Dissolve half pound Alum in 1 
^lon warm waler, and soak 16 minutes. 

Convuliion Fitt have been cured by drinking salt 
and water two or three times a day. 

Fegetable EatiTig, in promoting health and longev- 
ity, has never yet been overrated. It will prolong and 
render much more comfortable those afflicted with can- 
cer, aneurism, ossification Of the heart, consumptian,&c. 

Oxoltc Acid is neutralized by two ounces of Magne- 
sia ; mix quart of waler : or, by same quantity of com' 
mon whiting, thrown into the stomach. 

Coush.r~Sroion Mixture.~-Sticb Liquorice_, 2 oz. ; 
Gum Arabic, 1 oz. ; Paregoric, 1 oz. ; Antimonial 
Wtnc, 1 oz. ; Bock Candy, 2 oz. Take a lable^poon- 
ful J3 or 4 times a day. 

^Tiother.—Q spoonfuls Molasses, 1 do. Sweet Oil, 1 
do. gooA Vinegar, to which may be added a few drops 
Sweet Spts. Nitre. Take a tea-spoonful occasiooally. 

For Tetter, 8ee.~-\ lb. fresh Butler, without salt, 1 oz. 
White I^ipitale, half oz. good Turpentine : mixed 
and heat (o an ointment. 

Friction of the body is one of the most gentle and 
salutary tdnds of exercise, cleaning the skin, dispersing 
slagDating humours, promoting perspiralioD, strength- 
ening the fibres, and increasing tho warmth and enBi;gy 
of the wliole body. 

ITie Complexion can only be preserved in freshness, 
softness and beauty, by cleanliness, regular ezereise, 
temperance, a plain diet and pare air, and a cheerful 



Womu in children are by no means so pernicious as 
many of the quack medicines which are advertised to 
expel them. - 

XfOneUfe may safely be iniured to all who enjoy 
gpodgub without abusing stnf. 



Srandy and Salt as a Med%cine.T-lt is useAil in the 
reduction of inflammatjon of fractured limtn or bruises, 
the alleviation of incurable sores, cure of ringwonos, 
headache, toothache, inflammation in the eyes, ague, 
colic, pains in the side, chilblains, bums and scuds, 
cancers, sprains, open sores, asthmas, and complaints 
of the lungs. Fill a l)OtUe three-quarters f\ill with 
good Brandv, after which add as much Salt as will fill 
the boltle for corking ; shake it together 20 minutes ; 
let the Salt settle to the bottom, and do not shake it up , 
before using. The clearer it is used the belter. A bot- 
tle of this {jreparation should be constantly kept ready 
for use, as its virlues have been fully tested. When 
taken inwardly, for asthma, bowel complaints, Ac., 
mix two spoonsful with equal quantify of warm waler. 

Cancer. — Five out of six cases have been cured by 
Brandy and Saltj described atwve. The pain is very 
severe, but temporary. 

Poison, from vines, may be cured by bathing in 
Whiskey and Cream, and cooling with Bye Flour : if 
obstinate, use a strong solution of Copperas. 

S£ading aloud, speaking, and particularly singing, 
affords a healthful exercise ; whUe wind-instruments 
are injurious. 

Meat is so little necessary, in (act, that millions of 
the most rotmst and healthy population in Asia, Europe 
and other parts of the world, subsist exclusively oo 
such articles aa rice, wheat, and vegetables, alone. 

Cravats or slacks should not be worn so tight as to 
compress the many laive blood-vessels of the neck, 
which connect with the orain. 

Immire air of theatres, ball-rooms, and other 
crowded and badly-ventilated buildings and sleeping- 
rooms, is poison to the lungs. 

Eye-SigTtt is best preserved by a moderate light — too 
little Blrains— too much dazzles aud injures, bathing 
in cold water is of service. 

C(7iuufn})h'(m.— Bemedies.— Vigorous, daily, but 
not violent, exercise, and free exposure to the airfare 
important. As the great diflicullyin medicine is in 
reaching the seat of this disease, frequently inhaling 
certain fumes may bo a means of healinjg the lungs. 
Sitting and sleeping in a room through which tlie fumes 
of rosin, turpentine, or other similar gums are moder- 
ately diuused, may be of service. 

SmaU Pox is prevented by vaccination, if well done. 
Never neglect vaccination. 

In " tra/ining," an English boxer, to acquire the 
greatest possible vigour, health, and animal spirits, 
takes daily' four houis exercise in the air, keeps the 
body and mind occupied ; food of eas^ digestion and 
in small quantities J uses no ardent spirits, and sleeps 
eight hours, observing strict temperance in all things. 
Ey.these means his appetite and digestion become good, 
(he mind cheerful, lungs strong, and the whole system 
wonderfully improved. 

Sed-rooms heated are pernicious to health. 

Water is purified by — I, filtration through ^vel, 
sand, or soft porous stone and charcoal. Or, 2, it may 
be sweetened and improved by charcoal, coarsely pul- 
verized and thrown into a vessel of water. 3, by boil- 
ing and distillation. Water is greatly improved, in 
wells or pumps that are frequently used. 

VisiiUed Water, after being exposed to the air, is 
the most salubrioas of all drinks, and ita daily use is of 
the greatest importance in dyspepsia aud similar dis- 
eases. 

Feather Beds, especially in youth and In warm wea- 
ther, enervate the system, destroying its vigour aud 
health. Neither should beds te too nard. Sleeping 
with (he head under the clothes ts pemiuous ; so also, 
confined air caused by curtains. 

The floor ts (be unbealtbiest part of a room, fhnn 
the tendency of impure air to descend. 

UlcerB that proceed from a bad stale of the body, 
should never be dried up till the system becomes puri- 
fied by regimen or medicine. 



24 



HEALTH. 



Midnight Studies ought to be avoided, as in the 
bigbesi degree pcmicioiis. 

iSruwcs.— Baihe with Vinegar, and feeep cloth wet 
with Vinegar Qonalantly applied. If very violent, 
bleeding may sometimes be necessary. Poultice of 
Br«id, Elder or Camomile Flowers, with equal parts 
of Vinegar and Water : leuew two or three times a 
day. See page 20. 

Bums or Scalds. — For two or three. days anoint 
freely with Lime-water and Oil, mixed. Foullices of 
Bread and Milk, softened with fresh Butler, to abate 
the heat and intlammatioQ. Diet, and keep the body 
open. See page 20. 

Wounds.~~^,i external application aids the cure in 
any olber way than by keeping the parts soft, clean, 
and defending from the air. Nature alone eHecIs the 
cure. See page 19. 



„ -Between the heart and intended puncture 
apply a bandage, an inch or two off, to swell the vein 
and cause a free flow ; which must be gradually loos- 
ened as the blood flows. In all topical aneclions, draw 
the blood as near as possible to the affected part. Have 
the bandage an inch or two wide and about a yard long, 
and a compress of one or two small pieces of linen, 
folded two inches square, to lay over the puncture when 
the bleeding is stopped. Care must be taken not to cut 
too deep, or over a tendon or artery. Though great 
advantage may be had by bleeding in the begmning of 
some Inflammatory fevers, in apoplexy, and after se- 
vere injuries, &c., it should not be attempted by per- 
sona not skilled in anatomy. 



GENERAL REMARKS 

On the Means of Securing Health. 

In regard to receipts and " cure-alls, 
however promising they may appear, it 
should always be borne in mind, that 
what for one person may have proved a 
positive cure in a particular disease, 
may prove positively injurious when 
tried by another for the same disease, or 
even when repeated for the; same indi- 
vidual. The reason is obvious. So much 
depends upon the different habits, con- 
stitution, state of the humours, blood, 
degree of weakness or strength, &c., in 
different individuals, and at different 
periods in the same individual. The 
medicine which to-day would be proper, 
by a change in the disease, may to-mor- 
row be the reverse ;— and, in short, so 
many objections will occur to any re- 
flecting mind against the indiscriminate 
use of remedies, that the greatest cau- 
tion should be exercised, lest in tamper- 
ing with disease you destroy health. 
lli^e is so much adulteration in drugs, 
BO nmny quaclc nostrums, pills and im- 
positions, that in alt cases of doubt and 
difficulty, the safer rule is to trust the 
advice of an intelligent physician. 



To PRESERVE HEALTH, — tO guard 

against disease, should be the object, on 
the score of economy, comfort, and safe- 
ty; and this may be accomplished in all 
cases, unless under rare and very pecu- 
liar circumstances of exposure. A uni- 
form state of health may be -maintained 
until old age, by a careful observance of 
the rules already set forth. 

These are briefly — 1st. A PLAIN, 
WHOLESOME DIET, bearing in mind 
that high-seasoned compounds, hot 
dough, under the name of cakes, &c., 
or dough and grease, under the name of 
pastry, will essentially ruin the best sto- 
mach; and that intemperance in food, 
drink, and dress, is the foundation and 
cause of nine-tentlis of all the diseases 
and distress which afflict the human 
race. 

2d. EXERCISE, observing that while 
to the weakly too sudden, too violent, 
and long-continued exercise, may be in 
jurious, it is otherwise of the greatest 
importance. Those who cannot take 
other and better, may secure much of 
the advantages of exercise by active 
friction of the body on retiring to bed 
and on rising, and by frequent exertion 
and change of the position. 

3d. CLEANLINESS. 4th. PURE AIR. 
5th. To guard against taking COLD, 
which may in all cases be done by ac- 
quiring the habit of daily washing the 
person in cold water, especially the neck, 
breast, arms, feet, &c. This may be ren- 
dered easy by habit, and safe at all sea' 
sons, by commencing in warm weather, 
and rubbing with a rough cloth until a 
glow is excited. This will always be 
found, and under any exposure, a means 
of security from cold — that fruitful 
source of consumption and death. 

6th. A due regard to the ease and com- 
fort of CLOTHING. See articles under 
these several heads, also, "training," 
page 23- 

Some of these points are so important, 
that we again say- 
Observe to— 1. Rise early and never 
sit up late, 2. Wash the body every 



THOMPSONISM. 



25 



morning with cold water, rubbing well 
with a rough towel. 3. Bleep in rooms 
well and thoroughly ventilated. 4. Cor- 
rect symptoms of plethora and indiges- 
tion, by eating less for a few days, j. 



Never eat late hearty suppers, especial, 
ly of animal food. 6. Keep the feet 
warm, the head cool, and the body open, 
and the physician's aid will be seldom 
required. 



THOMPSONISM, OR BOTANIC PRACTICE, 



A list of the Simples used, witli their oames and the 
properties ascribed to (bem : 

Lobelitt, or Emetic Herb, to cleanse the stomftcb, 
overpower the cold, and promote free per&piratioo ; 
considered the most imporiant article in tnat system of 
practice. This plant differs from IndiaD Tobacco. It 
IB common in all parts of ttiis couolry ; i^rows at first 
flat on the ground, but shoots up 12 to 16 inches hieh, 
with branches, and in July has small pointed, pale blue 
blossoms, followed by small pods, size of a " white 
bean," with numerous small seeds. Gather in Sep- 
tember, when the leaves and pods turn a little yellow, 
though good at all seasons. Some seasoos it ia not to 
be fooM at all, or in very small quantities. Cut, dry 
it in-doors, and use the seeds and leaves powdered, or 
ma^e tincture from the green herb, with spirit. Com* 
mon dote, teaspoonfiil powder mixed with sugar in 
half tea cup warm water ; take all at once, or three 
limes at intervals of ten minutes. Water must be only 
blood warm ; its power is destroyed by scaldiag. The 
Tincture a made by the bruised green herb with er|ual 
quantity good spirits or vinegar. Squeeze and strain it 
to extract th^ juice, which save in a close-stopped bot- 
tle. Dose, from half to a teaspoonful : in all cases the 
dose must be reeulated by the Judgment. Taken for 
asthma, complamts of the lungs, and applied inter- 
nally or externally (o counteract poison ; also for lock- 
jaw, spasms, and to bring out small pox, measles, &c., 
and give warmth, animation, and vigour to the system, 
lis operation in long-standing disease is sometimes very 
severe, and will not remove a sealed disease unless its 
stimulus is followed by some other more nourishing 
medicine. 

Cayenne, when good, is used in doses of fVom half 
to a teaspoonful, in hot water sweetened, or a teaspoon- 
ful in a gl'iss of cider, to promote free perspiration and 
digestion, aud cures ague in face by laying some in a 
fine cloth betiveen the teeth and cheek, sittmg by a fire, 
covered warm. Ripe Red Peppers are good eubslitute. 

Ginger, a powerful stimulant, has a warm, healthful 
effect on the stomach. The root is chewed and juice 
swallowed for consumptive habits. 

Sayberry or Candleberry roots : the barb is used 
for canker, tooth powder, scurvy, and disorders of the 
bowels. Dose, a spoonful in hot water sweetened. 

White Pond-Lily rools, used as the preceding. 
Cleaned and dried in the Fall, 

Hemlock, — The inner bark, powdered, though some- 
limes used as the two preceding, is not recommended. 
The boughs make a lea gnod for gravel and other 
urinary obstructions, and rheumatism. 

Marah Rosemoru, mixed with Bayberry hark, is 
used for canker and sore mouth. 

Surruuih: tbebnrk, leaves and berries dried when 
full grown and full of sap, are uied either ns tea or in- 
jection, fbr cleansing, comptnints of kidneys, stran- 
guary and urine. Setter if used wilh Bayberry. 

White Hpxel leaves, as tea, good for bleeding at sto- 
mach, for canker, and most complaints of bowels. In- 
jection good for pilea, bearing-down pains, &c. 

Red-Raspberry leaves, excellent for women in tra- 



vail, made into tea, sweetened and with milk ; also Ibr 
bowel complaints of children, and sores. 

Squaw Weed, or meadow scabish, grows four or five 
feet high, narrow leaf and blue blossom : use the roots 
and top for canker rash, rheumatism, dizzuess and 
nervous affections. Make into tea. 

Bitter Herb or ScUmony, about size of mint, whits 
blossom like a snake's head, sweetish-bitter taste. As 
lea, good to correct bile, promote appetite and diges- 
tion, and keep the stomach in order. 

Poplar Sar\ Barberry Bark, Bitter Root or Wan- 
dering Milk-weed, Golaen Seal or Ohio Kercuma 
Roof; each used as tea for same complaints as Bitter 
Herb. 

Peadi Meats, bark of poplar, meat of cherry stones 
or bitter almonds, pounded and used as lea, for dysen- 
tery and debility or slomach and bowels. 

Oum Myrrh, recommended hiehly in wounds, old 
sores, and rheumatum : improved by an addition of 
Cayenne^ 

Sjjiriti of Turpentine, to be used extematly, wilh 
caution, with rheumatic drops, for itch and other bad 
humours. 

American Valerian or Ladies* Slipper: the roots, 
dug late in Fall or in Spring, are highly extolled in 
nervous affections and hysterical symptoms, safer and 
better than opium. Give half teaspoon, finely pow> 
dered, in hot waler sweetened, or put into Injections. 
Grows in swamps, wet land, and high ledges ; large 
clustered fibrous roots malted together and connected 
with solid root ; several stalks two feet high, leaves 
like poke leaf, female blossoms red, red and white, and 
white. The male is called yellow umbil. The yellow 
and red are bcstt 

There are some others, as pennyroyal, mint, tansy, 
ftc., which Dr. Thompson pronounces of less conse- 
quence ; hut the preceding are declared by him to be 
" all the important vegetables and herbs used in his 
practice." For lobelia and some other medicines he 
has secured a patent right. The charge for his book 
and the right of administering medicines is twenty 
dollars. But of late, much contention and division 
have arisen among bis followers, leading to important 
changes, principally caused by opinions unfavourable 
to the acquirements and intelligence of the man, what- 
ever virtues or merit may be ascribed to some of his 
early discoveries, 

Dr, Thompson lives in Boston. In bis account of 
the system which he claims the merit of, be states 
thai he was bom in New Aampshire, in 1769 ; dis. 
covered lobelia when four yean of age, whilst search- 
ing for cows in a field : be chewed the plant and 
noted its effects. He commenced practice in 1805. 
He places great reliance on exciting profuse perspira- 
tion ; repudiates ihinerals, especially mercury, io all 
lis forms, and is opposed to bleeding. 



26 



TEMPERANCE. 



TEMPERANCE. 



Being satisfied from observation and experience, as well 
as from medical testimony, that ardent spirits, as a drink, 
is not only needless but hurtful; and that the entire disuse 
of it would tend to promote the health, the virtue, and the 
happiness of the community : We hereby express our con- 
viction, that should the citizens of the United States, and 
especially all young men, discountenance the use of it, they 
would not only promote their own personal benefit, but the 
good of our country and the world. 

(SiaSTED) It f. ' 



Ootj/m, cftuVvcu J^^aih^ 




'^^^€S^^e_ 



Fresident JEFFERSON* said, >' The habit of using 
Ardent Spirits by men in public office, has produced 
more Injury to the public aervice and more trouble for 
me, than any other circumalaoce." 



Ardent spirits has made at least two hundred tbou> 
sand miserable paupers in the United Stales, many of 
whom once enjoyed a competence, if not weallh. 

It has annually destroyed thousands of onr felloiy' 
citizens, cousigning tbem to a drunkard's grave, and 
seriously multiplying widows and orphans. 

It has filled the jails, prisons, and penitentiaries of 
the United States with criminals, who have sacrificed 
character, society, and friends, for strong drink. 

It has iDvolved a waste of properly to the amount of 
many millions of dollars. 

It has burdened the country with a lax of millions 
of dollars for the support of its paupers. 

It has palsied the indusliyf corrupted the morals, 
and degraded the character of Americans ; proving 
itself more iujuriouB to our country than war, or 
famine, or pestilence. • 

And what good thing bas it done, or will it do, to 
cnunterbalance these deplorable and alarming effects ? 
Nat One. There is not a single redeeming quality. 
It neither prevents nor cures disease. It does not aid 
labour, nor promote domestic hafipincss. It adds 
nothing to national wealth or prosperity. 



Public attention has been awakened— an experiment 
of a proposed remedy for intemperance has been suc- 
cessfully made, proving by actual demonstration, that 
the povrer to terminate the evils of intemperance rests 
with the people. More than one million and a half of 
persous have signed the pledge of total abstinence, and 
as many more are practising upon the principle with- 
out signing. Thousands of merchants, grocera, and 
inn-keepers, have discontinued the sale of ardent spi- 
rits ; many distilleries have put out their fires ; and 
everywhere the spirit of freedem from a degrading 
vice has been aroused. Light and love have awakened 
every effort, and they will accomplish the object. 
This abject is distinctly announced to be tlie total dU- 
lite of iniozicatmg drmk in the United States and 
throughout the world. 

Parents, enlist your children on the side of total ab- 
stinence. It can do them no injury, and may save 
many of them from ruin. Let tbem adopt the senti- 
ment of the following lines. 

THE PLEDGE. 
The pledge we sign, to drink no wine, 
Nor brandy red, to turn our head, 
Ifor whiskey hot, that makes the sot, 
Nor fiery rum, to turn our home 
Into a hell where none could dwell : 

Tcs — here we PLEDGE pa-petuai hate 

To aU thai can intoxicate. 



TEMPERANCE. 



97 



FEMALES 
Are most deeply interested in the success of the 
temperance reformation. As it advances, il dries up 
the fountain of woman's grief, and turns her tears of 
biltemesa into tears of joy. Ladies, sign the tempe- 
rance pledge, and thus cast your influence on the side 
of temperance. Tou can banish alcoliul from the 
nursery, the sideboard, the social circle, and the festive 
ball. Mothers, sinters, wives, we entreat you to throw 
your gentle influence around society, to bold it t>ack 
&om the cup of death. 

A REMEDY. 
Let It be enacted that the expense of aupporting all 
paupers who are made such through the sale of intoxi- 
cating liquors, shall be equally assessed upon the deal- 
ers Id such liquors : let every man who takes out a 
license be required to give ample security for the pay- 
meat of his share of the tax ; and let the public au- 
thorities see that the destitute wives, widows and chil- 
dren of drunkards be well supported. This would put 
an eod to niae-tenths of the groggeries ; and the fewer 
the sellers became, the heavier would be the tax upon 
them. Friends of suffering humanity 1 why may not 
this plan be tried P 



One cause of the prevalence of intemperance is the 
low price of wine, brandy, &c. Fut down the spu- 
rious compounds, and the genuine will not be so con- 
stantly held out as a plausible templalion to young fae- 
ginners. May not all who value health join in copy- 
ing the following and obtaining signatures lo it ? 

PETITION 

To the Legislature of 

The subscribers respectfully represent, 
That inferior whiskey, coloured by logwood, cochi- 
neal, &c., flavoured to resemble in taste the liquor 
imitated and impregnated wilb spirits of turpentine, 
cochilDB indicus, oil of vitrol and other poisonous drugs, 
is sold throughout the country under the various names 
of wine, gio or brandy ; and whereas this imposition is 
most injurious lo health, and especially grievous to the 
sick to whom wine may be prescribed : we therefore 
pray your honourable Ixidy that such penalties may be 
imposed, by fine and imprisonment, against all who 
make or sell these or similar poisonous compounds, as 
may effectually secure the health of our ciiizens from 
such wicked and fraudulent practices. Asd your peti- 
Uooers shall, &c. && 



TETOTALISM. 
The objection to beer, cider, S;c. is that all Drunkards 
in the ontset commence on such mild drinks, and thus 
form a taste for drinking which becomes habitual, and 
Ibis habit becomes a second nature, leading slowly, it 
may be, but sorely, to all the evils and horrors of 
drunkenness. Besides which, aa temperance becomes 
popular, the strongest liquors are mixed with, and 
drunk aa cider, beer, &c ' 



THE FRUITS ! ! 
Some of the great advantages of the Temperance re* 



formation are already realised. Witness the redaction 
in the rate of insurance on ships manned by Temperance 
Sailors, and Ihe improved and comfortable condition of 
(he sailors themselves, who, in the wet, cold, and hard- 
ships which tliey undergo, confirm the fact that liquor 
in all cases is not only unnecessary, but worse than 

el ess. 

Witness the THREE MILLIONS who have given 
the TEMPERANCE PLEDGE to Father Mathew in 
Ireland ,- where distilleries have been turned into school- 
houses, where, instead of crime, quarrelling, fighting* 
poverty and rags, now shine forth the Temperance 
blessings of peace, joy and comfort. 

And many are the glorious results of Temperance, 
so many, that a volume might be tilled with the glad 
tidings, which urge on the patriot and ^he pbilanthro- 
pist, and all good men to perseverance in this glorious 
work of reform. 



THE TREE OF DISSIPATION. 

The 
ain of 

drunJcenness 
expels reason, 
drowns memory, 
distempers the body, 
defaces beauty, dimin- 
ishes strength, corrupts 
the blood, inflames the liver, 
wealceng the brain, turns men 
into walking hospitals, — causes 
internal, external, and incurable 
wounds, — is a witch to the senses, a 
devil to the soul, a thief to the pocket, 
the beggar's companion, a wife's woe, and 
children's sorrow, — makes man become 
a beast and a self murderer, — who 
drinks to others' good health, 
and robs himself of his 
own ! Nor is this 
all; it exposes 
to the 
Divine 

>s> 






The 

root of all is 

DRUNKBNN ESS!!!! 



38 



MECHANICS AND WORKING-MEN. 



MsECHANICS AND WORKING-MEN. 



THE ABLEST MEN WERE MECHANICS. 
There never was a doclrine more untrue than the 
noir almost obsolete one, derived from tlie false dis- 
tioctions iif monarcbiee, that mechanic professions 
are menial, and Ijeneath the station of a true gCDtle- 
man. The truth is, they are almost the only profes- 
eiODS that have substance, and reality, and practical 
utility. The greatest men in the annals of the world, 
the men who have done most to enlighten it, and ad- 
vance the prosperity and the liberties of the human 
race^ have been mechanics. It is the directness of 
mindj the plain good sense their pursuits inculcate, 
which has led to th.Dse immortal discoveries thai have 
enriched and ameliorated the condilioo of the whole 
human race. Name but an Arkwright, a Fulton, a 
Watt, a Franklin, a Whitney, &c, and where do you 
find their equal } 



HINTS TO MECHANICS AND WOKKMEN. 

If you would avoid the diseases which your particu- 
lar trades and work are liable to produce, attend to the 
following hints : 

Keep, if possible, regular hours. Never suppose 
that you have done extra work, when you sit up till 
midnight. 

Abstain from ardent spirits, cordials, and malt li- 
quors. Let your drink be, like that of Franklin, when 
he was a printer — pure water. 

Never use tobacco in any form. By chewing, smok- 
ing, or ena£Gng, you spend money wliicb would help 
to clothe you, or would enable you, if single, to make 
a useful present to an aged molher or dependent sis- 
ter; or, if married, to buy your wife a frock, or get 
books for your children. You also, by any of these 
filthy practices, injure your health ; bringing on head- 
ache, gnawing at the stomach, low spirits, trembling 
of the limbs, and, at times, sleeplessness. 

Be particular in preserving your skin clean, by re- 
gular washing of your hands, and face, and mouthy be- 
fore each meal, and of your whole body at least once 
a week ; and by combing and brushing the hair daily. 

Always have, if possible, fresh air in the room in 
which yon work, but bo that you shall not be in a draft. 

Take a short time in the morning, if possible, and 
always in the evening, or towards sundown, for placing 
your body in a natural posture, by standing erect, and 
exercising your chest and limbs by a walk where the 
air is the purest. 

If confined in-doors, let your food consist, in a large 
proportion, of milk and bread, and well-boiled vege- 
tables. Meat and fish ought to be used sparingly. 

THE working-man's HOME. 
Home! It marks the sacred spot to which the cares 
and tumult of the world do not reach ; and where, ex- 
cept in cases of extreme depravity, its vices do not in- 
trude. If there are gentle afiections in the heart, they 
will break forth around the hearth-stone ; if there is 



an hour of tranquillity amidst perturbed life, it will be 
that which is spent with wife and children. 

I would have the house of the working-man his 
most delightful resort. To be so, it should be pleas- 
ing, even in its outside. It is Joo common for people 
to think that because they are poo^lbey must be slo- 
venly and dirty. A little whitewash, a little paint, a 
little turfing, and a few days of labour about the vines 
and flowers, will serve to change the whole appear- 
ance of the humblest enclosure. Every body is more 
cheerful in a neat than in a disorderly room. When 
work is over, and everything in its place, the visiter is 
more welcome, the husband's look is brighter, and an 
affectionate glow spreads itself through the circle. 

The common law has acknowledged the principle, 
that every man's hoase is his castle. It is true in more 
cases than one^ Home is the ciladel of all the virtues 
of the people. For by home we mean something more 
than one's house : it isthe family that makes the home. 
It is the peculiar abode and domain of the wife j and 
this one circumstance marks it out as human, and as 
Christian. Sacred wedlock is the fountain not only of 
its pleasures, but of its moral excellence. The poorest 
man who has a virtuous, sensible, industrious and af- 
fectionate wife, is a man of wealth. Home is the 
abode of our children. Here they meet us with their 
smiles and their prattle. He who unfeignedly enjoys 
this, cannot be altogether corrupt ; and the more we 
can make men enjoy it, the further do we remove 
them out of harm's way. No men, therefore, are bet- 
ter members of society, or more apt to become stable 
and wealthy citizens, than such as are well married 
and well settled. 



HOME VS. TAVEPvNS. 

The rivals of our Home are many and fearful. 
Among the direst ts the drinking-place, whether 
known as porter-house, grogshop, or tavern. The 
man who spends his evenings in these sty^an fumes, 
soon grovels, and wallows away half his dviTizalion. 
Where ought he to be, but by his own warm fireside, 
rewarding his wife for the solitary InboDrs and vexa- 
tions ot the day, and recerving on his own part those 
cheap but invaluable pleasures, which nre as much 
above the delirium and ribaldry of the bar-room, as 
the light of day is above the glimmer of a dipped-can- 
dle? I am no enemy to tavern-keepers. They are a 
useful class of men. Their offers of kindness {o the 
stranger and the traveller, ought to be remembered 
and repaid. The worst elTects of ill-conducted taverns 
are felt, not by the wayfaring-man, for whose behoof 
Ibe inn is instituted, but by the throng of villagers and 
neighbours, who have, or who ought to have, homes 
of their own; who need no tavern, and who resort 
thither from idleness, from love of excitement, or 
from beastly appetite. 

Ah ! if that bar-room could tell the history of the 
drunkards who have dropped off one by one, how 
would the hideous revelation scare the very sot. 



DENTISTRY— THE HAIR. 



29 



The taTftTD-bauDler driDks till he feels himself 
hnir-ruined ; he is wretched ; he drioks to drown his 
wretchedaesaj be does drown it, and hia Boul along 
with it E 

To young men, bcgmniog life, especially to newly 
married men, the counsel is seasonable: AcvereTicc 



theFirende, Admit no rival here. Let your chieF 
joys he shared by her who has forsaken all other 
hearts and hopes for you ; by those who must inherit 
honour or disgrace from your course of life. Shun the 
bar-room and the purlieus of intoxication. They are, 
to thousands, the avenues to infamy. 



DEN'MSTRY, 



ON THE AUTHOKITY OF HUNTER, KCECKER, HITCHCOCK, COMMON SENSE, 
AND OTHEH DISTINGUISHED SURGEON DENTISTS. 



Tht 7%efA.— Attention to the cleansing of the teeth 
cannot l>e ioculcaled at too early an age. The oeglccl 
of brushing and washing the teeth is invariably at- 
tended with both disease and decay, which, by timely 
and daily ablutions, might have been avoided alto- 
gelher. Those who have grown up in the omission of 
this salubrious habit, should lose not an instant in 
availing themselves of a practice so essential to general 
health and cleaoliness. The extremes of heat and cold 
are injurious to the teeth ; therefore, the water with 
which the teeth are cleansed should be what is termed 
lukewarm. They should be well but gently brushed, 
both night and morning; the brush shouldbe neither 
extremely hard nor extremely soft, but should possess 
a medium quality. Should the gums bleed slightly 
during the operatioo, it will produce a salutary eOect. 
The most efiectual, and indeed the only means of 
keeping the teeth and gums in a firm and healthy 
state, is by using the bru^ daily. Those who possess 
good teeth should be careful to preserve them. When 
they are in good order, and free th>m tartar, the use of 
a soft brush once a day, with a little dentifrice occa- 
sionally, will be quite sufficient to keep them so; and 
with this the owner diould rest satisfied, 

Tbofft Powder has afforded to quackery and impos- 
ture a spacious field (br their operations, whereon the 
credulity of mankind has enabled them for years to 
reap a golden harvest. It la obvious (o all who give 
themselves the trouble to think, that the simpler the 
ingredients of its composition, the more beneficial it is 
likely to prove. I know of none better or more 
wholesome, dther for deansiDg the teeth or for 
strengthening the gums, than cuttle-fish, prepared 
chalk, and orris-root, commingled together in equal 
quantities, which any one may procure separately 
ttom any respectable chemis^ and mix himself, 

Tartar. — This offensive sobstance, solely the effect 
of negligence and a want of cUanliness, proves ruin- 
ous to U^e teeth and injarious to health. Remove by 



scraping, taking care not to injure the enamel ; at the 
same time press against the point of (he tooth to keep 
it firm in its socket. 

Filing should never be permitted unless to remove 
portions of rottenness that cannot otherwise be taken 
out. In its unavoidable destruction of the enamel, 
filing is highly pernicious. 

Plugging cavities, either with gold or tinfoil, of 
good quality, should never be neglected. Carefully re- 
move all rotten portions ; thoroughly cleanse and dry 
by means of cotton ; then introduce the metal gradu- 
ally,, pressing it into all parts of the cavity with as 
muim firmness as possible, until it becomes a solid 
mass with the exterior surface, even and smooth. 

Tobacco JuuXf whether from smoking or chewing, 
stains the teeth a permanent filthy yellow, and under- 
mines the enamel. 

Initrumenta are required of such various sizes, 
shape^ &c.. in most operations, as make the services of 
a dentist advisable, ir not indispensable. One of the 
evil consequences of neglect. 

Children will be saved much future sofferiog, mor- 
tification and expense, by having their teeth frequently 
looked to, and by insistiog on the easily-formed habxt 
of washing and cleansingathe teeth after every meiili. 

Tooth Powder. — Many preparations, particularly 
charcoal, are sui'e to wear away the enamel, and are 
therefore pernicious. Use 1 oz. orris-root, 2 oz. pre- 
pared chalk, one fourth oz. magnesia. Wild-cherry- 
tree bark is an excellent deotifrice. When once clean, 
teeth may easily be kept so by simple water and a 
brush, 

TootfuuM proceeding from the nerve, may be per- 
manently cured by cauterizing or burning the nerve. 
This is done by a wire filed to the size of the exposed 
surface of the nerve, bent at the end in a suitable di- 
rection. The saliva must be discharged, and the cavity 
dried by cotton. Then, with Ibe extremity of the wire 
held in a candle until it acquires a white heal, care- 
fully but rapidly and slightly touch the nerve. It may 
be necessary to repeat it. ]f the wire is merely red 
hot it is painful, but if heated to a white heat the pain 
is scarcely perceptible. 

Burnt Alum, kreosote, oil of cloves, laudanum, 
poultice of ginger, laudanum and vinegar, applied to 
the face ; or mustard plaster, are sometimes of service 
in toothache; and brandy and salt will remove in- 
flammation and soreness of the gums. 



THE 

REVISED BT 
Its Proper ManogemeTJf.— Under tbe ordinary cir- 
cumstances of-health, in conjunction with temperance 
and r^;ular exercise, the only safe and effectual means 
of preserving the hair and of promoting its growth 
ana beauty, is tbe frequent use or the como and brush, 
and rmilar ablution. 

It will be readily perceived, by a reference to tbe 
slrnclure of the hair, that whatever has a tendency to 



HAIR. 

J. D. MOORE. 

impede the passage of the fluids by which it is nour- 
ished, from the root along the tube in the centre of 
each hair, must necessarily prevent its proper growth, 
render it thin, and deprive it of its soft and glossy ap- 
pearance. There can be little doubt that this is the 
effect, lo a certain extent, of the practice of twisting 
the hair from its natural position, and of plaiting or 
firmly braiding it The injurious coaaequpafX^pl such 



30 



THE HAIR. 



modea of dreraing tbe tuir can ODiy be obviated by a. 
daily resort to (he comb and a hard brush, wbich, by 
diseotangling, restores it to its natural direction, and, 
freeing it from every restraint, enables it to receive a 
due supply of its appropriate fluids. The growth of 
tbe hair is not, however, always impeded by artificial 
means: this may result, also, from allowing it to be- 
come entangled and matted together — a condition to 
which it 1b extremely liable from its peculiar form. 
Hence, under all circumstances, frequently combing 
and brushing it through its whole length, is absolutely 
necessary to its proper preservation. 

Independent of the good eS'ecIs of tbese operations 
in rendering the hair pervious to the fluids wbich rise 
from its roots, they facilitale its development also, by 
freeing the scalp from accidental impurities, facili- 
tating the circulation through its vessels, and thus en- 
abling the hair to perform Ireely its functions. 

Another means of promoting the growth of this 
structure and insuring its permanency, is by frequently 
outtiog it, II is in early life, particularly, that fre- 
quent cutting will be found highly advantageous. 

When the hair becomes thin and irregular, or its 
beauty is otherwise impaired, we know nothing better 
calculated to restore its proper growth than cutting it 
abort 

In children, beeping the hair short is a circumstance 
of no little importance, and should not, from any light 
consideration, be neglected. Their health is preju- 
diced by a contrary practice. Nothing is more com- 
mon than to see a luxuriant head of hair accompanied 
in children by mienese of complexion, weak eyes, and 
frequent complaints of headache. The following ex- 
cellent remarks in a little work entitled *' Advice to 
Young Mothers— by a Grandmother," are recommend- 
ed to the attentive perusal of every parent. 

" The hair in children should be cut short until they 
are eight or nine years old— as the cooler the head can 
be kept, the less danger there is of many maladies pe- 
culiar to that part of the body, especially water on the 
brain. Besides, there is good reason for believing, that 
children who have a great quantity of bair, are those 
most liable to eruptions, as scald head, &c. It is at 
least certain, that in them, eruptions are very difficult 
to remove. Tbe trouble, also, of keeping long hair 
sufficiently clean, and the length of time necessary for 
this purpose, is often a cause of much ill humour and 
many cross words between children and their attend- 
ants, which it would be better to avoid. 



"Mothers whose vanity may be alarmed lest re- 
peated cutting the hair for so many years should m^e 
it coarse, may be assured they have no cause for this 
apprehension, provided tbe hair be kept constantly 
brushed." 

when there is any tendency to sores or eruptions on 
the head of children, fine combs are very apt to pro- 
mote them. There Is no doubt that the heads of young 
persons which are never louched by them, may be 
preserved much cleaner by strict attention, than such 
as are scratched and scraped every day. If any dirt 
Appears on a child's head, which a brush will not re- 
move, that particular part should be rubbed with a 
towel and soap and water; but in general, the brush 
wilt be found quite sufficient to keep it perfectly clean. 
The seldomer, indeed, a fine comb is applied lo^ the 
head, the better: when, however, those of ivory,' tor- 
toise shell, or bone, are used, the greatest care is ne- 
cessary lest they wound the skin and produce a sore, 
or, by unduly irritating it, auo^ment the productiDD of 
the scurf they are often intended to remove. 

FTtw/wng- jyoir, — The beauty and permanence of 
the hair are best promoted by the strictest cleanliness. 
To prevent its becoming greasy and dirty, it ought to 
■- '— ' ' ' '"■ ' "toft • 



lightly V 
Objedi 



ibjediona are made bysome to wetting the hair^ 
but tbe prejudice against the pradice is absurd. No 
possible injury, but, on the contrary, much good will 
result from frequent washing of the head. 

The females of the South Sea Islands, |«markab1e 
for their fine long bair, promote its silky gloss and 
beauty by regular and frequent washing. . 

RygiA-M des Bamea, approving the practice of 
washing, observes, in regard to the length of the hair 
of females, that as the most beautiful hair is the mast 
difficult to keep clean, it is precisely this sort which 
requires to be washed often and careriilly, and the bath 
is recommended as the most convenient means of doing 
this. Besides, says the author, the finest gloss is im- 
parted by the water, provided the hair be quickly 
dried ancl immediately combed and brushed, 

HeadachtB complained of by females are often occa- 
sioned by a deficiency of moisture in the hair, by 
which the comb or brush is prevented from fully de- 
taching the scales that form upon the scalp and clog 
up the pores deslined to the passage of the perspira- 
tion. 



HusbaTids ifavUne FauU.—Some men make their 
wives very miserable by a thoughtless habit of finding 
fault with everything which comes in their way. The 
man who heedlessly finds fault on every occasion, only 
lays the foundation for his own sorrow, for he takes 
away an important motive which-actuates the wife to 
faithfulness and pains-taking} and she must be more 
than a common woman, who, in tbe face of repeated 
fault-finding, can find a heart long to exert herself, only 
(o receive again tbe samts reward. 



Quarrda. — One of tbe commonest and most fool- 
ish -things in the world, is to quarrel, no matter 
with whom, man, woman, or child ; or upon what 
pretence, provocation, or occasion whatever. There 
is no kind of necessity in it, and no species or degree 
of benefit to be gained by it. No man ever fails to 
think less of himself after than he did before one : it 
degrades him in his own eyes and in tbe eyes of 
othen; and, wbat is worse, blunts his sensibility to 
disgrace on the one hand, and increases tbe power of 
passionate irritability on^ other. 



THE WORLD: 

ITS EXTENT AND POPULATION. 
JHvisitmt of the Globe, in tJie Order of their Popu- 
JousTteaa, loith their Population to a Square Mile, 

Fop. to a Sq. Mile. 
Europe ....-..- 65 

Asia 28 

Africa --•-■••--6 
North America .-•••■•4 
South America 2 

ORDER OP POPULATION. 

Population. 

Asia S(}0,000,000 

Surope 215,000,000 

Africa 100,000,000 

North America 25,000,000 

Soulh America 14,000,000 

ORDER or EXTENT. 

Sq, Miles, 

Asia I6;000,00D 

Africa 12,000,000 

North America 9,000,000 

South America 6,500,000 

Europe 3,500,000 



PHRENOLOGY. 



31 




5P5SIi^51W®a©^S©.^I^ S]|!5riD)51^ 



FKEIiINGS, 

Or Affective Faculties. 
' • Alimenl ivepe aa, appefite for food. 

1. AMATIVErN'SSS, producea Sexual Love, 

Desire ; Physical Love. 

2. FHILOPROGENITIVENESS, Love of 

Children, and Toune BeiDgs. 

3.^NCENTRATIVEN£SS— conlinues 

the Miod an Bmotian or Ideas. 

4. M)H£SIV£N£:SS, Friendship, Sociabili- 

ty \ Attachment ranerally. 

5. COMBATIVENESS. Courage, Oppoai- 

lion, Intreptdily, Quarrelsomeness. 

6. DESTRDCTrVENESS, Desire lo De- 

stroy, Torment: Harshness, Cruelty. 

7. SECElETrVENESS, Concealment, Pru- 

dence, Cunuing, HypocYisy. 
& ACQUISITIVENESS, Desire to acquire 
Property; Avarice, Selfishness. 

9. OONSTRUCTIVENESS^Mectuuiical Ge- 

nius, desire to build. 

10. SELF-ESTEEM, Self-respect, Personal 

Dignity, Pride, Hauehlmess. 

11. APPR0BATlVEl«:SS,Thir8ttor Praise, 

Fame, or Glory; Ambition, Vanity. 

12. CAUTIOUSNESS, Circumspection, Ti- 
. midily, Fear, Despondency. 

'13. BENEVOLENCE, Universal Charity, 
Mildness of Disposition, 

14. VENERATION, Reverence, Suparsti- 

tiouB Adoration, Bigotry. 

15. FIRMNESS, Determmatfon, Persever- 

ance, OtHtinacy, Resolution. 

16. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS,Love of Truth, 

Seme of Justice, Duty. 

17. HOPE, Ezpecta future ^ood ; Cherishes 

Faith, Love of Schemmg. 
la WONDER, Desire of Novelty, Belief 
in the Supernatural. 

19. IDEALITY, Love of the Beautiful, or 

Excellent, Poetic Feeling. 

20. MmTHFULNESS,Wit. Humour, Glee, 

Love of the Ludicrous. 

21. IMITATION, Expression in Arts, or 

Action; Mimiciy. 



INTELLECT, 

Or Knowing aitd EeftectiTig FataiUies. 

INDIVIDUALITY — observes Existen- 
ces, Simple Facts. 

FORM, ot)serve Configuration and the 
Shape of Badie.<i generally. 

SIZE— gi ves the Idea of Space, Distance, 
Dimension. 

WEIGHT— perceives Momentnm, Re- 
sistance, Equilibrium. 

COLOURING— gives perception of Col- 
ours, and their Harmonies. 

LOCALITY— gives the idea of Relative 
Position, Place. ,. 

NUMBER, Talent for Calculation, quick- 
ness in Figures. 

ORtlER, Communicates the' Love oE 
Physical Arrangement. 

EVENTUALITY — observes and re- 
members Occurrences and Events. 

TIME— perceives Duration in Nature 
time in Music. 

TUNE, Sense of Musical Harmony, 
Melody. 

LANGUAGE, Verbal Memory, Fluency 
in Speech or Writing. 
, COMPARISON — discoveia Analogies 

and Differences, 
, CAUSALITY — traces the Relation of 
Cause and Efiect. 



Memory, is merely a degree of activity of the 
knowing and reflecting organs, each organ enabling 
the mind to recall the impressions wbica it served at 
first to receive. 

Jvdgment is thi decision of 34 & 35 upon feeliugi 
and ideas fumisbeJ by the other faculties. 

The facyltira, in themselves, are mere instincts, 
the moral sentiments and intellect being higher than 
the animal propensilies. Every faculty is good in 
itself, but all are liable to abuse : their operations are 
right only when they act in harmony with each other, 
emightened intellect and moral sentiment holding the 
supremacy. 



Other things being equal, the size of the brain determines tbe strength of the mind ; though if the tempera. 
ment be active, the same volumedf brain will produce proportionably greater mental energy. The size of each 
organ mea8ure»tbe power of thai &cutty which is ^ercised by means of it. Each organ desires its own active 

SLlification in proporlion to its developdineni ; the larger organs controlling the smaller. Firmness, Concen- 
tiveness, and Secretivenesi, act through the other, fsculti^. 

iVo^e.— Figures may be used iti (he margin to denote the relative sizes of the organs io individuals. Scale 
from 1 to 20 :— organs marked below S, small ; from 8 to 12, iSoderate ; from 12 to 16, full ; from 16 to 20, large. 
Note, — The subject of Phrenology has awjikened so much attention for a few years past, that it is thought 
coDsistent with the plan of this work, lo devote one, page to a general and comprehensive view of the whole 
matter, which we do in theabovesynopns, without designidg to express any opinion upon the relative merits 
<a- demerits of the science. 



33 



CANALS — RAIL-ROADS. 



CANALS. 



JVeiu York was the pioneer in the introduction of 
tbis species of improvement. The Erie Canal, com- 
menced in I8L7aitd finished in 1825; since when the 
canals in this Slate alone have been extended to 950 
mileg at an expense of 20,000,000; upon which the 
tolls collected from 1829 to tSitS, amounted to 9,983,637 
dollars. 

TABLE, 

SHOWING THE COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGES 
OF CANALS AND RAIL-ROADS. 



s 


^^. 


list 


-a 


til 


Horses to 
draw OR 
canaZ the 
loadofont 
horse on a 
rail-road. 


ms. 


h.m. 


miles. 


tons. 


tons. 


hoises. 


3» 


am 


20 


9.S 


9.8 


1 


4 


ft 


20 


7.5 


9.75 


1.3 


& 


4 


20 


4.8 


9.M 


2.08 


ti 


!tai 


20 


3.33 


9 53 


2.80 


7 


2fil 


20 


2 43 


9.42 


3.87 


8 


2IHI 


20 


1.87 


9.31 


5.31 


9 


a IS 


20 


1.48 


9.22 


6.2 


10 


'/. 


20 


1.2 


9.68 


7.2 


11 


14li 


20 


1 


9 


9 



The splendid lines of artijicial navigation in the 
United States, exceeding 4000 miles in extent, have 
created internal trade, promoied agriculture and busi- 
ness generally to an imniensc extent. 

FRINCIPAL CANALS, 
Finished or in progress in tjie United States. 

In Maijie, Cumberland and Oxford, 20. Jn Massa- 
chusetts, Middlesex, 27. Blackstone, 45. Farmington, 
78. New York, Delaware, Hudson, &c., 82. Erie, 
363. Champlain, 63. Black River, 76. Oswego, 39. 
Chenango, 96. Cayuga, 20. Chemung, 23. Morris, 
101. New Jersey, Delaware and Raritan, 43. Pmn- 
sylvania, Delaware Canal, 60. Lehigh, 66, Schuyl- 
kill, 108. Little Schuylkill, 20; Pennsylvania, 312. 
Susquehanna, 39. Western Branch, 66. Northern 
Branch, 76. Beaver, 30. French Creek, 46. Peon- 
sylvania and Ohio, 82. Sandy and Beaver, 73. Dela. 
ware and Maryland, Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, 
14. Maryland, Chesapeake and Ohio, 186, Virginia 
and North Carolina, Dismal Swamp, 23. Virginia, 
James' River, 150. South Carolina, Santee, 22. 
Georgia, Savannah and Alalamaha, GO. Brunswick, 
12. Alabama, Muscle Shoals, 37. Louisiana, La- 
fourche, 85. Ohio, Miami, 265. Ohio and Erie, 306. 
Wabash and Erie, 110. Indiana,While Water, 76. 
Illinois and Chicago, 96. 



RAIL-ROADS. 



Sail-Soade, in the facilities they furoisli of trans- 
porting passengers, produce, and country mercbandisB, 
as well as in the immense amount of employment fur- 
nished to many thousand of labourers, mechanics, and 
others, are justly considered among the greatest un- 
provemeutsof the age. 

Profits, — On eight rail-roads in Massachusetts in 
1840, total receipts were 1,191,710 dollars 
634,786 dollars, leaving a surplus of 656,924 dollars. 

TABLE, 

BHOWINO THE COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGES 

OF AHIUAL AND MECHANICAL LABOUR. 



b 



h. m. 



i^ 



j9 e *^ 



10 
640 
5 42 
5 
4 

320 
2 61 
2 30 
2 13 



SO 

49.33 

49 

48.75 

4a25 

47.66 

47.1 

46.65 

46 

45.S 

4S" 






miles 



PUmCIPAL HAIL-KOADS, 
FinisTied or in progress in the U. Statea, cormeding, 
Boston and Newburrport, 33 miles; Boston and 
Lowell, 26; Boston and Worcester, 160; Providence 
and Slonington, 47; Norwich and Worcester, 58; 
Hartford and New Haven, 40 ; Utica and Schenectady, 
84 ; Troy and Ballston, 25 ; Mohawk and Hudson, 16 ; 
Saratoga and Schenectn^, 23 ; Utica and Syracuse, 60 ; 
Auburn and Syracuse, 2o; Lockportand Niagara Falls, 
20 ; Buffalo and Niagara Falls, 23 j Rochester and At- 
tica, 47 ; Ithaca and Owego, 29 ; New York and Erie, 
340; Jersey City and Palerson. 15; Jersey City and 
Trenton, fiS ; Camden and Amboy, 61 ; Philadelphia 
and Trenton, 26; Philadelphia and Columbia, 82; 
Philadelphia and Baltimore, 93 ; Philadelphia and Nor- 
rislown, 17: Philadelphia and Reading, 56; Danville 
and Fottsville, 45; I^ncaster and Harriaburg, 37; 
Westchester, 9; Ballimore and Susquehannan, 70; 
Williamsport and Elmira, 74 ; Reading and Port Clin- 
ton, 20; Little Schuylkill, 20; Harrisburg and Cham- 
bersburg, 49 ; Wrightsville and Gettysburg, 42 [ New- 
castle and Frenchtown, 17; Bal'imore and Ohio, 60; 
Baltimore and Washington, 40; Winchester and Har- 
per's Ferry, 30 ; Richmond and Potomac, 75 f Rich- 
mond and Petersburg, 21 ; Peter6burgandBlakeIy,60; 
Portsmoulh and Wildon, 80 ; H ickford and Gaston, 18 ; 
Raleigh and Gaston, 86 ; Wilmington and Halifax, 161 ; 
Charleston and Hamburg, 135 ; Savannah and Nmc«i, 
200 ; Macon and Forsyth, 25 ; Augusta and Decatur, 
160; Tuscumbia and t)ecatur, 45; Montgomery and 
West Point, 85; Vicksburg and Jackson, 54; Jack- 
son and Brandon, 8; Grand Gulf, 8; New Orleans 
and Nashville, 500 ; Clinton and Port Hudson, 28 ; St, 
FrancisvJIle and Woodville, 28; Memphis and La- 
grange, 50; Dayton and Sandusky, 153 ; Louisville and 
Lexington, 90; Detroit and St. Josephs, 180; Detroit 
and Fontiac, SO; Toledo and Marshall, 90; Madison 
and Idfayelte, ISO ; Lawrenceburg and Indianapolis, 90. 



RELIGION. 



33 



RELIGION. 



GENERAL ENUMEKATION. 
CbrUtians, .... 260.000,000 

Jewa, .... 4,000,000 

MobammedanB, . . - . St>,000,000 

Idol&tan of all Bort^ - - 500,000,000 

Total popuIaUoD ot the world, 



SfiO,000,000 



PRINCIPAL RELIGIOUS DENOMINA- 
TIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. 



Mfllbodiata, • 

Protestant do, 

Fresbytariana, 

CoDsregalidnaliBfa, - 

CatboliCa, (popnbtioii), 

EpUcopaliaoB, do, • 

Univenaliata, do. - 

LotheranB, - 

Dutch Reformed, 

Cbriatians, 

German Reformed, - 

Uoilariana, - 

Menoonitea, 

Friends, 

Jews, 

Mnravians, - 

MormODists, 

Shakers, 

New Jerusalem, 



492,496 

- 850,000 
50,000 

- S56,0S3 

• 160 000 
■ 1,300,000 

- 600000 

- 600,000 
63,ort0 

- 22,550 

- 150,000 
30.000 

• 180,000 

- 30,000 

- 100,000 
15.000 

6,eoo 

65,000 
6,000 

11,000 
Making toother, 4,859,030 profcssora of religion, and 
allowing (bree or four amon^ tbe family or friends of 
each, and the number so ascertained will include very 
near, the entire population of the United S'ales na pro- 
fessors, friends, or believers in the eternal truths of 
Divine Revelation. 

It has been trulj' observed that the Christian is the 
only religion which will bear the test of a rational in- 
vestigation ; that it is the only system which can pre- 
tend to a divine origin, and the only one to which 
mankind can look for a remedy against the various 
moral evils which prevail over the world. 



THE ATHEIST. 
The assaults of reckless men, the cavilling of sceptics, 
the sneera of the scoffer, from the most powerful in 
times past down (o the miserable atheist of the present 
day, have accomplished nothing. Their denunciations, 
and reviliogs, and labours, have all resulted in cre-iling 
DO good, in advancing no internal, in defending, or com- 
(brting, or elevaliog none; in administering to the 
wants, the sufferings, or hopes of no human being, 
Their lalwurs, like their minds, are A blank— a blank 
as cold and comfortless, as destitute of good here or 
hope hereafter; a blank as dark and appalling as the 
void to which tbey would drag down and degrade the 
eternal and immortal scul. 

THE CHRISTIAN. 
Bow wonderful the contrast religion presents ! ! Rut 
without adverting to the fruits of Christian love and 
enterprize, witness throughout the civilized world, the 
noon-daylight of Cfariatianity, every 'where abounding 
in proportion as the human race rises in the sc^le of in- 
telligence and civilization; and without denying the 



evils of bigotry, or the hypocrisy of pretenders, alike 
inimical to true religion—wilhoutappealing to the long 
line of heroes, statesmeo, and philosophers ; and the 
host of great intellects, who have made religion the 
study of their lives, and sealed it with their deaths; 
without enquiring if men are so bad with religion, 
how much worse would they be without any— in short, 
wilboul the multitude of reasons that urge men to pre- 
fer the hope of immortal life, to the death of a brute, 
let it be asked, Is it not true that the firm believers 
in the Gospel have a great advantage overall othere? — 
for this simple reason, that if true, they will have their 
reward hfireafter ; and if there be no hereafter, they can 
be but with the infidel iu hia eternal sleep, having had 
the aasistance of an exalled hope through lifb. 

Among the great multitude of the wise and good who 
have recorded their testimony in behalf of Christianity, 
the American citizen may proudly dwelt on the memo- 
ry of WASHINGTON. A model of true greatness 
through his whole life he exhibited an example, in all 
the relaljnns of life, political and social, public and 
private, which challenges Ibe admiration of the world. 
In his FAREWELL ADDRESS he says- 

" Of all the dispositions and habits 
which lead to political prosperity, reli- 
gion and morality are indispensable 
supports. In vain would that man 
claim the tribute of patriotism, who 
should labour to subvert these great pil- 
lars of human happiness, these firmest 
props of the duties of men and citizens. 
The mere politician, equally with the 
pious man, ought to respect and to che- 
rish them. A volume could not trace all 
their connexions with private and public 
felicity. 

"'Tis substantially true, that virtue 
or morality is a necessary spring of popu- 
lar government. The rule indeed ex- 
tends with more or less force to every 
species of free government. Who that 
is a sincere friend to it can look with 
indifference upon attempts lo shake the 
foundation of the fabric ?" 

GEOBQE WABHIHGTOS. 



THE CHRISTIAN WCftlLD. 
This is the title of a periodical published in Phila- 
delphia al one dollar and twenty-five cents per annum, 
without advocating any particular sect. It is devoted 
lo the advancement of Cbrislianity-*' Bible Chris- 
tianity in its essential, peculiar, and incomparahle 
glory." Edited by T. H. Stockton. 



34 



MOTHERS. 



INFLUENCE OF WOMEN. 



BY JUD&E HOPKINSON. 
ir men hold (he political power of society, women 
ha.ve mainly in their hands the more important moral 
power. There cannot be a moral comcnunity'.where 
they are licentious ; there cannot be a refined society 
where they are neglected and ignorant. Upon them 
depend the earliest education and first impreBsions of 
their children. They regulate, or materially influence, 
the principles, opinions and manners o[ their husbands 
and their sons. Thus the sound and healthful state of 
society depends on them. It is a remarkable historical 
fact, that the wife of Oliver Cromwell endeavoured to 
persuade him to recall the exiled king, and that all his 
children save one were loyal. We must believe they 
derived their feelings and opinions from the^r mother. 
Alfaed, one of the most extraordinary men of any age, 
who rescued his country from her enemies by his cou- 
rage, and by hia wisdom and energy rescued her from 
extreme barbarism to a high degree of civilization, in 
hia youth was given to idleness and pleasure. His mo- 
ther roused in him the ambition and virtue that has 
made him (he admiration of mankind for a thousand 
years. Napoleon said tliat to the manner in which his 
mother formed him at an early age, he principally 
owed his subsequent elevation. It was his opinion that 
the future good or bad conduct of a child depends upon 
the mother. 

Mothers, while you are proud of this distinction, re- 
memember the responsibility it imposes on you, BE 
WORTHY OF IT. 

The list of great names mifiht have been 
swelled by that of our WASHINGTON, 
who has paid so beautiful a tribute to the 
memory of her who formed his youthful 
mind, and by those of many thousands nf 
others wlio have ascribed to the affectionate 
care and counsel of mothers all their virtues 
their distinction and honours. 

But recently the eloquent and popular 
O'Connell thus publicly testiticd : 

" I wept over the grave of my sainted mo- 
ther, who early instructed and brought up 
my infant mind to the possibility of failure, 
but the impossibility that the lessons I re- 
ceived could tarnish the morals or virtues of 
her son ; and I do sincerely believe (hat, when 
at her last expiring breath her sainted soul 
poured forth a blessing on my head, what- 
ever success 1 have had through life was 
owin? to the efficacy of her last pleasing 
though melancholy lesson.*' 

THE PRECIOUS PEAKL. 
Religion in a female secures all her inte- 
rests. It graces her character, promotes her 
peace, endears her friendship, secures es- 
teem, and adds a dignity and worth indescri- 
bable to all lipr deeds. How pleasant, when 
the absent husband can think of home, and 
reflect that angels watch the place ! When 
about to leave her a widow, how consoling, 
if her character is euch, that she can lean 
on the widow's God. and put her children 
under the guardianship of Him, who i» the 



father of the fatherless ! Then he quits the 
world calm and happy, supported by the 
hope he shaU meet them all ia heaven. 

A HINT. , 

It is not Ihe money earned that makes a man weal* 
thy GO much as what he saves from bis earnings. A 
good and prudent husband makes a deposit of Ihe fruits 
of his labour with his best friend: and if Ihat^endlw 
not true to him, what has he to hope P If he dare not 
place confidence in the companion of bis bosom, where 
IS he to place it ? A wife ads not for herself only, but 
she is the a^ent of many she loves, and she is bound to 
act for their good, and not for her own gratification. 
Her husband's good is the end to which she should aim 

-bis approbation and love is her reward. 

THE mother's DUTY. 

Important as are schools, and invaluable as learning 
may be, they are nothing, nay, worse than nothing, 
unless right habits are formed at home. Without a 
proper training of the mind in early childhood, the 
learning of after life may only serve to direct bad ha- 
bits to evil purposes, and lead Ihe way to greater 
wickedness and crime. 

All who have the care of children, or who feel an 
interest in their welfare, can do them no greater good, 
nor society a greater blessing, than by aiding in Ihe 
correction of bad, and Ihe formation of good, habits. 

Habits in youth are easily formed, and the hand that 
aids in forming them is doubly blcwed. Let all thosB 
who love little children— let mothers, especially, watch 
unceasingly, and carefully nip >n the bud the slighleil 
propensity in a child to exercise cruelty of any kind, 
or upon any object, and early create an habitual abhor- 
rence of dram-drinking, theft, and hypocrisy. Assidn* 
obsly cultivate a love of truth, of industry, frugality 
and order ; obsierving that though children may be go- 
verned too little oT too much, they can never be go- 
verned too well. 

See "HABITS,^' page S9. 

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. 

Whatever may be the views entertained towards Mr. 
Adams as a politician, it is conceded by all acquainted 
ivilh his private character, thai he is a man of high- 
toned morals, and of the strictest integrity. The mo- 
ther's character is shown in the following extrncl from 
a letter, written to her son, then eleven years of age, 
who was residing with bis father at Paris. 

June, 1778. 

My dear son, — The most amiable and most useful 
disposition in a young mind, is diffidence of itself ; and 
this should lead you lo seek advice and instruction. Im- 

fnove your understanding l^ acquiring useful know- 
edge— and virtue, such as will render you an ornament 
to society, an honour to your country, and a blessiug 
lo your parents. Great learning and superior abilities, 
should you ever possess them, will be of little value 
and small estimation, unless virtue, honour, truth and 
integrily are added to them. Adhere to those religious 
sentimeuts and principles which were eariy instilled 
into your mind, and remember ihat you are accounta- 
ble to your Maker for your words and actions. # • • 
The inadvertency and heedlessness of youth require 
line upon line, and precept upon precept; and, when 
enforced by the joint efforts of both [arenis, will, I hope, 
have a due influence upon your conduct ; for, dear as 
you are to me, I would much rather you should have 
found your grave in the ocean you have crossed, or that 
an untimely death crop you in your infant yan. than 
sec you an immoral, profligate, or gracelen chUa. 



PATENT OFFICE. 



35 




Patent Office, Washington City. 
The prificipal Hall is 273 feet long, 63 feet zoide, and 30 feet high. 



A National OaOay in the Fateot Office is opeo for 
the reception o[ unpatented models and Bpecioiens of 
Manufiictures and Agriculture. Preparation will be 
made to exhibit aificleB deposited, to the t)est adv^- 
tage, and every attention bestowed to protect them in 
^iua 4xueff, Arom JDJiiry or loss. 

Few, very few, are aware of the progress of the arts 
in the United States, and hence the scepticism as to the 
ability we possess to supply oar own wants. Our fac- 
tories, scattered over a widely extended surface, are 
seen by travellers only, and they can visit but few, in 
traversing the leading routes. Unlike the conceo. 
trated eslablishments in Europe, where slenm power is 
used, here, fitctories and work-ebops are found in re- 
tired spots, where streams (a valuable portion of na- 
tional eapiUl) give the most economical — the hy- 
dfauUc f otrer. 

Annval fairs, in many places, have done much good 
and excited a laudable emulation ; but these have been 
limited (o a short dur^ion, and designed for citizens in 
their immediate vicinity. It is now proposed to es- 
tablish, at (he Seat of Government, a Natiatial Gal- 
lery, to remain a perpetual exhibition of the progress 
and improvemeDt of the arts in the United Slates. 
Here the most beautiful ipecimens of the genius and 
industry of the nation will be found ; and what Amer- 
ican can visit the Gallery, and not be alill prouder of 
his country, and feel that while we are /ree, we are 
iltoindepenSeni. 

The rooms, though spacious, will not admit of cum- 
brous articles ; samples and specimens, similar to those 
exhibited at the principal Fairs, will be thankfully 
received. I would observe, the F.ileat Office is fire- 
proof, and guarded by a careful watch. 

The Diplomatic Corps, and the Navy, are using 
much effort to transmit to the Patent Office the most 
valuable exotica, while from the agriculturists of this 
ODuntry are expected the best specimens of indigeoous 
seeds. 

During the session of Congress of 1839-40, an act 
was passed authorizing the Commissioner of Fatents 
to collect statistics, and, in various other modes, to pro* 
mote the agricultural interest of the United States. 

D^Iy impressed with the importance of this sub- 
ject, and regarding it as the commencement of a sys- 
tem, Wlucb, if properly carried out, will confer incal- 



culable benefits on our common coustiy, the Commis- 
sioner embraces an early opportunity to invite co- 
operation in introducing foreign Seeds which are rare 
and valuable. ^blic~ vessels are fully authorized to 
receive specimens. Beaioiiable freight, however, will 
be paid by the Office, for ahipment in private vessels. 
An ezhilHtion of the spike of the different grains, 
indigenous and exotic, is contemplated in the new 
Patent Office ; hence the importance of sending, if 
possible, a specimea of the original stalk with the 
graiu attached. 

Dinctiona for putting up and transmitting Seeds. 

With A view to the transmission of seeds ttotn dis- 
tant couniries, the first okiject of care is to obtain seeds 
that are fully ripe, and in a sound and healthy stale. 

Those seeds that are not dry when gathered, should 
be rendered so by exposure to the air, m the shade. 

When dry, the seeds should be put into bags of com- 
mon brown paper. A portion of the seeds may also 
be put in other kinds of paper. Those that mnt ef- 
fectually exclude air and moisture are the best for that 
purpose. It would Iw proper, also, to enclose some of 
the seeds in paper or cloth that has been steeped in 
melted beeswax. Seeds collected in a moist country, 
or season, may be packed in charcoal. 

After being put up according to any of these modes, 
(he seeds should be enclosed m a box, which should 
be covered with pitch, to prevent them from damp, 
insects, and mice. They should be kept in a cool, 
airy, and dry situation ; not in the hold of (he ship. 

The oily seeds soonest lose their germinating faculty. 
They should lie put in a box with sandy earlo, in the 
following manner : fir^t, about two inches of earth at 
the bottom ; into this the seeds should be placed at dis- 
tances proporlionale to their size ; on these another 
layer of earth about an inch thick ; and then another 
layer of seeds : and so on, with altem^ layers of 
earih and seeds until the box is filled within about a 
foot of the top, which space should be filled with sand ; 
taking care that the earth and sand be well put in, thai 
the seeds may not get out of place. The box should 
then be covered with a close net-work of cord, well 

{>i(ched. or with split hoops or laths well pitched, so as 
D admit the air without exposing the contents of the 
box to be disturbed by mice or accident. The seeds 
thus put up will germinate during their passage, and 
will he in a stale to be planted immediately on their 
arrival. It would be well, also, to enclose some of 
them (each seed separately) in a coat of beeswax, and 
afterwards pack thebi in a box covered with pitch. 

It is not intended, however, by these instniclions, to 
exclude the adoption of any other modes of putting up 
and transmitting seeds and plants, which are in use in 



36 



EMIGRANTS. 



any particular place, and which have been found suc- 
cessful, especially if mere simple. Suggestions in re- 
gard to Ihe Ireatmcnt of the plants during the voyage, 
and their cullivaliou and use at'ierwarde, are desirable. 



PATENT KI&HTS. 
1. FalentB are granted for 14 years, for any new and 
useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of 
mailer, or any nevif and useful improvement on any 
art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, 
not known or used by others before. No patent is in- 
valid by reason of the purchase, sale, or use (of the 
iuveniion) prior to the application for a patent, except 
on proof of abandonment of such invention to the pub- 
lic, or that such purchase, sale, or public use has been 
for more than two years prior lo such application for a 
patent. 2. Joint inventors can only obtain a joint pa- 
tent. 3. An inventor may assign hia right, all or part, 
before the patent is oblained, the assignment being first 
recorded, 4. The adminislrator or executor of a de- 
ceased inventor can secure a patent for the heirs. 5. 
All fees go into the Treasury ; and for a patent, thirty 
dollars must be paid in advance — two thirds to he re- 
paid ia case application is withdrawn. 6. No answers 



are sent to enquiriea about previons Bimilar disco- 
veries, 7. The petition must be signed, and witnessed 
by two, and addressed to the Commissioner of Falents. 
8. Plain drawings and specifications must be made, 
witnessed, and duplicates sent. 9. The particular spe- 
cification claimed must he pointed out. 10. The mo- 
del must be sent or left as below, with the inventor's 
name durably alRited. 1 1, The fees must be remitted 
in coin or by certificate of deposite. 12. Persons liav- 
in^ business with the Patent Office, will be furnished 
with the printed laws, directions, forms, rules, &c, on 
application. 13. Communications with (he Patent 
Utiice are by law free of postage. 

Models and Specimens, if deposited with any of the 
following Agents, will be forwarded to the Patent 
Office free of expense: Collectors at Portsmodlh, 
N. H. ; Portland, Me. } Burlingipn, Vl. ; Providence, 
R. I. ; {Surveyor at Hartford, Conn. ; Collectors at 
Philadelphia, Fa. ; Baltimore, Md. ; Richmond, Va. ; 
Charleston, S. C. : Savannah, Ga. ; New Orleans, la. ; 
Detroit, Mich. ; Buffalo, N. Y. j Surveyor at SI. LouIb, 
Mo. ; Collcclor at Cleveland, Ohio ; Surveyors at 
Pittsburgh, Pa. ; Cincinnati, Ohio ; Louisville, Ky. ; 
R. H. £ddy. Agent, Boston, Mass, : David Gardiner, 
Agent, Custom House, N. T, 



EMIGRANTS. 



Bich lands abound to such nn extent, in almost every 
variety of climate and situation, in our country, and 
are so easily obtained, that no advice, for selecting, can 
be necessary. Where there is so much to choose from, 
ordinary intelligence can hardly go amiss. A few hun- 
dred dollars, health, a disposition to labour and submit 
to privations, are all that Is required to insure real 
weallh and independence. 

A Log Cabin Is made of round, straight logs, about 
a foot in diameter, lying on each other and notched in 
at the corners, the crevices s!opped with slips of wood 
and mortar made of clay, with a roof of rafters co- 
vered with hark, &c. This suffices till larger and bet- 
ter accommodations can be made. 

Clearing next follows. Fell the trees early in the 
summer. Cut large ones first; let them fall in such 
direction as will enable you to fell the largest number 
of small ones on or along side them ; and fell all pa- 
rallel as near as possible, for convenience in rolling to- 
gether. Lop the limbs of large trees; cut the small 
ones into suitable lengths to haul on to the large. . By 
this process two men may heap and burn most of the 
timber^ without a team. Never chop or dmw large 
trees till reduced by lire. Fire the heaps the next 
May, if dry; if not, wait till July or August. Heat- 
ing the soil so destroys the green roots, and the ashes 
are so beneficial ihat a good crop of wheat or Indian 
corn may be had without ploughing or manuring. 
Plough shallow in autumn, cross ploi^gh deeper in the 
spring, harrow well, and be sure of golden crops. 
Winter chopiiing is somelinies preferred, and Ine 
burning done in the following August, if a dry season. 

See PuiMc Lands— Agriculture— Health, etc. 

ADVICE TO WESTERN SETTLERS. 
The following good common sense directions are by 
Ihe Rev. T. Flint. 
"The most affectionate counsel we could give an 
immigrant, after an acquaintance with all districts of 
the western country, of sixteen years, and afler having 
seen and felt no small share of all we have attempted 
to record, would be lo regard the salubrity of the spot 
selected, as a consideration of more importance thap 
its fertility, or vicinity to a market." The advice lo 
have a lancet, and learn how to open a vein, is good ; 
and that to have a small and well labelled and well 
supplied medicine chest, is not amiss, connected with 



what follows, viz. "To be, after all, very cautions 
about either taking or adminiatepiug its contents, re- 
serving them for emergencies, and for a choice of 
evils j to depend for health on temperance, moderation 
in all things, a careful conformity, in food and dr^ to 
circumstances and the climate ; and, above all, let 
him obaerm a rigid and uiidemating abaiinmtx 
from that loathsome and murderota viestem poi- 
son — whiskey — which may be pronounced the pre- 
valent miasm of the country. Let every immigrant 
learn the mystery, and provide the materials, to make 
good beer. Let every immigrant, during the season 
of acclimation, especially the sultry months, take me- 
dicine by way of prevention, twice or thrice, with ab' 
stinence from labour a day or tw(f afterwards." 

We should say, let the immigrant, when he first ex- 
periences unpleasant bodily feelings in hot weather, 
such as headache, with loss of appetite, fast and rest 
from labour for a few days, and he will avoid sickness, 
and prevent the necessity of taking any physic at all. 
" Let* him," continues the author, " have a Bible for' a 
constant counsellor, and a f^w good books for instruc- 
tion and amusement. Let him have the dignity and 
good sense to train his family religiously, and not to be 
blown about by every wind of doctrine, in religion, 
politics, or opinions. Let his rifle rest, and let the 
game, unless it come in his way, live on. Let'him' 
cultivate a garden of choice fruit, as well as a ^ne 
orchard. Let him keep bees, for (heir management 
unites ]ilea3ure and profit. Let him prepare for silk- 
making on a email and gradual scale. Let him culti- 
vate grapes by way of experiment. Let him baniiih 
unreal wants and learn the master secret' of self-pos- 
session, and be content with such things as be hat,'! 
aware that every position in life has advantages and; 
trials. " Let him assure himself that if an independent' 
farmer cannot be happy, no man can. Let fiim jn^g- 
nify his calling, respect himself, envy no onBi and jiiae 
to the Author of all good, constant aspirations of thank- 
fulness, as he eats the bread of peace and privacy .^^' . , 



UNITED STATES. 



37 



UNITED STATES. 



ARMY. 

Army of the United Stata.—A Secretary of War ; 
three Brigadier Generals ; Qr. Master General ; Fay- 
maater General ; Sur^on General ; Chief Engineer. 
The whole army consists of four regiments of artillery, 
and seven rwimeols of infantry. The regular army 
numben 12,6S9^ officoia and men. There are SB mili- 
tary posts and arsenals in the United Stales, besides 
otben in a stale of forwardness. Id times of fbreien 
invasion, ingurrecUon, or rebelUoD, the militia of the 
several states is under the coaunand of the general go- 
vemineDt. 

The Militaiy Academy at West Point, in Neiv York, 
was established in 1802. The numher of cade's is 
limited to 250. From the establishment of this institu- 
tion to September 2, 1828, there had been 1289 cadets 
admitted; 640 commissioned; 477 re«gned; 1^ dis- 
charged ; 20 bad died: and in 1830, 213 remained. 
The cost of this establishment to 1828, was 1,185,421 
dollars. 

From 1795 to 1817 indusiv^ there were made at the 
Annory, at Harper^ Felry, Vii^jgia, ^,720 muskets, 
11,870 repaired,and4,100pistDls; at Springfield, Mass., 
there were made 1^,359 muskete, 1,2(0 carbines, and 
45,800 jrepaired. The expenses at the latter place for 
purcbaseL buildings, repairs, &c, was 1,820, 122 dollars. 
The number of musbets manufactured in the United 
States* annories in 1832, was 2S^; Hall's rifles, 
4,360; screwdrivers, 16,960; wipers, 26,560; arm 
cheats, 716; and various cither articles. Expendilurea, 
405,944 dollars. 

MILITIA of the United Slates, 1,492,444. 
NAVY. 

Navy of the United 8lata.—A Secretary of the 
Navy and Board of Commissioneiv. There are 65 
Captains ; 37 Masters Commandant ; 2% Lieutenants ; 
64 Surgeons ; 42 Pursers ; 9 Chaplains ; and 12 Navy 
Agents. A Chief Naval Constructor. There are 7 
Navy Yards in the United States. One at Fortamoutb, 
N. n. ; one at Cbarleslown, Mass. ; one at Brooklyn, 
N. Y. ; me at Philadelphia, Penn. ; one at Washing- 
ton, D. C ,' <Hie at Gosport, Va, ; one at Fensacou, 
Florida. 

The number of vessels in onr Navy is 56 ; vis : 11 
ships of the line, 12 frigales of the first class, 2 frigates 
of the second dass, 2t sloops of war, 4 brigs, and 8 
schooners. In addition to the above, are the 2 steam 
vessels, Missouri and Mississippi. The expense of 
which, for the past 25 years, was 1^503,584 dollars. 

The annnal cost of a 74 gun ship on a cruise, is 
180,360 dollars ; in ordinarv, &433 dollars. Of a 44 
gun frigate on a cruise, 112,0(K) dollars ; in ordinary, 
5,000 dollais. Complement of a 74, 656 men ; of a 44, 
450 ; and of a sloop of war, first class, 184 men. The 
cost of a 36 to a 74 gun ship, is eiitimated at 4,500 dol- 
lars per gon ; of a 32, 4,000 dollars ; and of a 20 gun 
ship, 3,500 dollars per gun. 

Two Dry Docks, one at Norfolk, the other at 
Charleetown : constructed of hewn granite of unrivalled 
masonry. The latter is 341 feet in length, 80 in width, 
and 30 in depth, and cost 652,482 dollars. Thd dock 
at Norfolk cost 872,220 dollars. 

POST OFFICE. 

Oeneral Pott D^<a.— Rates of Postage :— For every 
letter of a »ngle saai, not over 30 miles, six cents ; over 
30 to 80 miles, ten cents : over 80 to 150 miles, twelve 
and a half cents ; over 150 to 400 miles, eighteen and 
three-quarter cents ; over 400 miles, twenty-five cents. 
Double, triple, and quadruple letters, in the same ratio. 
No letter can be charged with more than quadruple 
postage anless its weight nceeds one ounce, avoirdu- 
foil. 

Newspapers, or one sheet of printed paper, not over 
100 miles to any state, and to any distance in ifae stale 
where printed^ one cent ; over 100 miles out of the 
state where printed, one and a half cents. Magazines 
and punphlets,for every 100 miles, fourcenis per sheet ; 
over 100 miles, six cents. If published ptriodicaUy, 



fpr 100 miles, one and a half cents ; over 100 miles, 
two and a half cents. 



The privilege of franking, and receiving letters free 
of postage, is given to the following persons, viz :— 

President and Vice President of the United States; 
Secretaries of State, Treasury, War, and Navy ; Post 
Master Geoeral and Assistants Post Master General ; 
Attorney General ; Compt's. of the Treasury ; Audi's. ; 
Reg. Treas. ; Commissioner of the Geo. Land Oflicej 
Ex-Presidents of the United Stales ; Members of Con- 
gress (dariue the Session, and £0 days before and after 
the same;) Commissioners of the Navy Board; Adj't. 
Gen.; Comm'y. Gen.; Insp's. Gen.; Quart. A^s. 
Gen, ; Pay Mast. Gen. ; Sect'y. of the Senate ; Clerk 
of the House of Representatives ; Superintendent of the 
Patent Office ; and Post Masters, not to exceed half an 
ounce in weight, and one daily newspaper. 
MINT, 

Untfed Stata Mnt.— Commenced in 1792 at Phila- 
delphia. The coinage eOected from the time of its ee- 
tablishment to 1838, mcluding gold, silver, and copper, 
amounted to 77j346,448 dollars. In 1840, there were 
coined at Philadelphia, 2,260,667 dollars; at New Or- 
leans, 915,600 dollars: at Charlotte, ]27,()55 dollars; at 
Dahlouega, 123,318 dollars,— total, 3,426,632 dollara. 
The number of pieces coined at Philadelphia was 
7,053,074 ; at New Orleans, 3,446,900 ; at Cbariotte, 
31,^8 ; at Dahlonega, 26,S31,— total number of pieces, 
IO,n58,ffi6. The deposites in gold in Philadelphia 
during the year, were 1,201,998 dollars, of which 
176,776 dollara were derived from mines in the United 
Slates. g 

An eagle of gold, valued at ten dollars, must weigh 
eleven penny-weights and six grains. A dollar must 
weigh seventeen peniiy-weighls and seven grains of 
silver; and a cent must weigh 'eleven penny-weights 
of copper. All coins ceased to be a legal tender in the 
United Stales on the ISth October, 1797, except federal 
cuius and Spanish milled dollars. 

PUBLIC LANDS. 

Public Lwnds of tfie United States.~T]ie public 
lands within the states and territories of the United 
States, consist of those lands ceded by many of the 
states to the United Stales ; the latter taking the respon- 
sibility of extinguishing the Indian titles, together with 
those lands obtained from France by the purchase of 
Louisiana, and those by the cession of the Floridas from 
Spain. 

The minimum price of these lands is one dollar and 
twenly-five cents per acre; and, since ISiO, no credit 
is given to purchasers. These lands are surv^ed before 
they are offered for sale. They are divided mto town- 
ships of six miles square, which are divided into thirty- 
six sections, one mile square, containiog each 640 
acres ; and sold in sections and parts of sections. One 
mile square in each township is reserved for a school 
fund. They hold out a most inviting project to the 
enterprising emigrant. 

The quantity of unceded lands belonging to the In- 
diaoB, and lying north and west of the states and terri- 
tories of the United Slates, hut within the limits of the 
United States, has been estimated at about 750,000,000 
acres. 

Allowing that the public domain was sold at the low 
price of seventy five cents an acre, it would supply 
ample means for constructing a double track Railroaa 
of Quincy gr.mite and wrought iron, from ^lastport to 
New Orleans, and furnish a fund to procure locomotive 
engines, cars, &c., and keep the whole in repair for- 
ever. It might also give to each state and territory a 
mAool /wTid of three mHUpn doUari, and leave a 
balance in the treasury of many millions fbr miifgllfh 
neous expenditures. These lands are becoming more 
valuable every day, and are cot only worth looSog a(, 
but after. 



3S 



GIRARD'S WILL. 




■■'-■■-'" -, -f- 



The Giraid College for O 

Stephen Girard was born in Bordeaux, France, in 
1746, arrived at New York as cabin-boy in 1775, Eetlled 
in Philadelphia in 1779, " a poor man, dealing in old 
iron, old rigging," &c. He became a banker in 1812, 
and aner, as ebipper, merchant, builder, firmer and 
banker, amassing a forlune estimated at more tban 
seven million dollars, he died in 1S31. After be- 
queathing to his brother, sister and nieces various sums, 
amounting to one hundred and fifly thousand dollars, 
and other legacies to public and private purposes, the 
Will proceeds : — 

" XXI. 'And BO far as regards the residue of my per- 
sonal estate, in trust, as to two Tnilliqn^ of doUarSy 
part thereof to apply and expend bo much of that sum 
as may be necessary — in erecting, as soon as practicably 
may be, a permanent College, with suitable out-build- 



ings, sufficjently spacious for the residence and accom- 
modatioQ of at least three hundred scholars, and the 
requisite teachers and other persons necessaiy in such 
an institulion as I direct to be established : and in sup- 
plying the said College and out-buildings with decent 
and suitable furniture, as well as books and all things 
needful to carry into efTect my general design, 

"The said College shall be constructM with the 
most durable material, and in the most permanent 
manner, avoiding needless ornament, ana attending 
chiefly to the strength, convenience, and neatness of the 
whole : It shall be at least oae hundred and ten feet 
east and west, and one hundred and sixty feet north 
and south ; It shall be three stories in height, each 
story at least fifteen feet high in the clear from the floor 
to the cornice ; It shall be fire-proof inside and out- 
side. The floors and the roof to be formed of solid 
materials, on arcbes turned on proper centres, so that 
no wood may be used, except for doors, windows, and 
shutters: There shall be in each story four rooms, 
each room not less than fifty feel square in the clear ; 
the four rooms on each Jloor to occupy the whole space 
east and west on such floor or slory, and the middle of 
the building north and south; so that in the north of 
the building, and in the south thereof, there may re- 
main a space of equal dimensions, for an entry or hall 
in each, for stairs and landings : In the north-east and 
in the north-west corners of the northern entry or hall 
on the first floor, stairs shall be made so as to form a 
double staircase, which shall be carried up through the 
several stories ; and, in like manner, in flie south-east 
and 80Uth-we>t-corneTs of the southern entry or hall, 
stairs shall be made, on the first floor, so as to form a 
double staircase, to be carried up through the several 
stories; the steps of the stairs io be made of smooth 
white marble : The outside walls shall be faced with 
slabs or blocks of marble or granjle, not less than two 
feet thick, and fastened together with clamps securely 
sunk therein,— they shall be carried up flush from the 
recess of one foot formed at the first floor where the 
foundation outside wall is reduced to two feet : The 
floors and landings as well as the roof shall be covered 
with marble slabs, Recurely laid in mortar ; the slabs 
on the roof to be twice as thick as thnse on the floors. 
In minute particulars, not here noticed, utility and 
good taste should determine. There should be at least 



four out-buildings, detached from the main edifice and 
fVom each other, and in such positions as Bhall at once 
answer the purposes of (he institution, and be consis- 
tent with the symmetry of the whole establishment: 
each bnilding should be, as far as practicable, devoted 
to a distinct purpose; in that one or more of those 
buildings, in which they may be most useful, I direct my 
executors to place my plate and furniture of everv sort. 
•' When the College and appurtenances shall have 
been constructed, aaa supplied with plain and suitable 
furniture and books, philosophical and experimental 
instruments and apparatus, and all other niatters need- 
ful to carry my general design into execution :-the in- 
come, issues and profits of so much of the said sum of 
two millions of dollars as shall remain unexpended, 
shall be applied to maintain the said College accord- 



ihe income, arising from that part of the said 
sum of two millions of dollars, remaining after the 
construction and furnishing of the College and out- 
buildings, shall, owing to the increase of the number 
of orphans applying for admission, or other cause, be 
inadequate to the construction of new buildings, or the 
maintenance and educalionof as many orphans as may 
apply for admission, then such further av/m as ma/a 
fi£ Twxssary for the construction of new buildings and 
the malnlenance and education of such further number 
of orphans, as can be maintained and instructed within 
such buildings as the said square of ground shall be 
adequate to, shall be taken from the final residuary 
fund hereinafter expressly referred to for the purpose, 
comprehending the income of my real estate in the 
City and County of Fhiladelphia, and the dividends of 
my stock in the Schuylkill Navigation Company— my 
design and desire being,thatlhe oeneJitsof said mstitu- 
tion shall be extended to as great a number of orphans 
as the limits of the said square and buildings therein 
can accommodate." 

At a subsequent period having purchased 45 acres 
of land, in the suburbs of the city, he says, I " direct 
that the Orphan eslablishment, provided for in my said 
Will, instead of being built as therein directed upon 
my square of ground between High and Chestnut and 
Eleventh and Twelfth Streets, in the City of Philadel- 
phia, shall be built upon the estate so purchased tiom 
Mr. W. Parker ; and 1 hereby devote tbe said estate to 
that purpose, exclusively, in the same manner as I had 
devoted the said square, hereby directing that aU the 
improuermnts and arrangements for the said Orphan 
establishment, prescribed by my said Will ai to said 
square, shall be made and executed upon the said 
estate, just as if I had in my Will devoted (he said 
estate to said purpose." 

OTHER LEGACIES.— To Philada. and N, Orleana 
his Louisiana estates ; for improving Phila^ EOOfiOO 
dollan, and Fcnna. 300,000 : to his brother Etienne 
and niece in France a house in Bordeaux and 6,000, 
and his brother's six children 5,000 each : to his mecea 
in Philada. Mrs. HemphilI60,000, Mrs. Haslam 10,000, 
and Mrs. Clark 10,000, and her daughter iM,000. To 
his Captains l,fi00 each ; his apprentices 500 each— to 
widow of Jared Ingersoll an annuity of 1000, aqd in 
annuities to Mrs. C. Girard 400, his two housekeepers 
500 each, and their sisters 300 each, to diSerent cluiri- 
table institutions of Philadelphia 116,000 dollars. 



EDUCATION. 



39 



EDUCATION. 



A aberiff of Xiondon, afler adequate experience, de- 
cUres that the moat promment causes of crime are to 
ta traced to the want of education— the want of pa- 
rental care, correction, and control, Ste. 

habit! habit! 
I truBt every thvag to habit ; habit, upon 
which, ID all ages, the law-giver, aa well as 
the schooI-maBter, has mainly placed his re- 
Uaoce ; habit which makcB every thing easy, 
and casta all difficulties upon the deviation 
from the wonted course. Make sobriety a 
habit, and iotemperaace will hei hateful and 
hard ; make prudence a habit, and reckless 
profligacy will be contrary to the nature of 
the child grown an adult. Give a child (he 
habit of sacredly regarding the truth^of 
carefully respecting the property of others — 
of scrupulously abstaining from all acts of 
improvidence which can involve him in dis- 
tress* and he will just as likely think of 
rushing into the element in which he can- 
-not breathe, as b'ing, or cheating, or steal- 
fflg. — Lord Brougham. 

FAMILY GOVERNMENT. 
We can, therefore, hardly overrate the 
importance of sound and wholesome family 
discipline and instruction. Important as are 
laws and civil government, family influence 
is paramount. It is not for legislation to af- 
fect materially the family, the most ancient 
and venerable and permanent of all the 
forma of society, commencing with man^s 
history and ending only when man shall 
cease to be a dweller upon earth. The 
moral influence of families depends upon 
themselves. Each family to answer the ends 
of its existence, and contribute to the com- 
mon weal and glory, must care for itself, 
and attend to its own government, purity 
and happiness. Each must firmly inculcate 
within its own sacred enclosure the virtuous 
and conservative principles of truth, reve- 
fence, suboaission, peace, goodness, and love 
of order, which alone can give stability to 
the time, and safety and grandeur to the 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 

To ffliyrieal education belong the proper traioiae 
and slToigtheDiog of all the powers of the bod^, and 
the avoidance of^every thing calculated to injure its 
stracture. 

The fint and most Blriking error in phyaical educa- 
fioo, is the unnecessary confinement to which the child 
is subjected. No one (hat has observed a child, be- 



tween the agea of three and six, can dauht that nature 
requires that he should be almost constantly in motion 
during his waking bours. How painful then, how un- 
natural, must be bis situation in school! Pent up, for 
six hours a day confined to one seat, and that a very 
uneasy ooe, where he is farced to sif perfectly still and 
silent, how irksome must be his condition, how pre- 
judicial to bis health ! And what a^ravates the evil 
IS, that it is wholly unneceseary. For the extended 
confinement defeats the very purpose for which it is 
imposed. " The body and mind," says Sterne, " are 
like a jerkin and its lining. If you rumple the one, 
you rumple the other." Besides the injury to his 
health, bis mind becomes heavy and dull, and his 
proenss, consequently, is not half what it would be 
under a more rational course. 

The school'TOom is loo small either fbr convenience, 
comfort, or health. Most children go first to school 
while many of their bones are still in a fanning state. 
They go almost as early as when the Chinese turn 
their children's feet into the shape of horses' hoofs. 
And, at Ibis period of life, the question is, whether the 
seals shall be conformed to the children, or the chil- 
dren deformed to the seals. Let aoy man try the ex- 
periment, and see bow long he can nit in an uprirht 
posture, on a narrow bench or seat, without Iwing able 
to reach the floor with his feet, vet, to this position, 
hundreds of children are regnlarly confined, month af- 
ter month ; Nature inflicts uneasmess and distress if 
they do sit still, and (be teacher inflicts bis punish* 
meuts, if they do not. The closet fbr hats and coats is 
small, or altoeetber wanting, so that the children ac- 
quire disorderly and wasteful habits with their clothes. 
Tbe room la badly ventilated, so that in cool weather 
when the doors and windows are kept shut, the chil- 
dren are forced to breathe the same air over and over, 
until it has become uufil for respiration, thus laying a 
fnundation for debility and disease. — JPaInur>> Prize 
Eaay, 

Extracts from the Preface to Taylor'a 

DISTRICT SCHOOL OK. NATIONAL. 
EDUCATION. 

All who are competent to judge, and will 
give their due attention to the facts which 
this book discloses, must unite in the conclu- 
sion, that our present system of popular ed- 
ucation is radically defective. 

It is on this point chiefly that the public 
mind requires to be disabused ; it is in rela- 
tion to this that there exists — I speak espe- 
cially of this Slate^ — a very general delusion. 
We are told that under the fostering patron- 
age of the government, more than half a 
million of children are taught in our com- 
mon schools, — our pride, as citizens of the 
Empire State, is gratified, and we content 
ourselves with the general statement, omit- 
ting to inquire into the character and value 
of the instruction which is thus imparted. 

We know not, for we care not to know, 
that it is in truth so imperfect and scanty as 
hardly to deserve the name even of elemen- 
tary,— that it is unconnected witb any thing 



* New York. 



40 



EDUCATION — THE BIBLE. 



resembling moral discipline or the formation 
of character. — that the teachers, inexpe- 
rienced, transitory, snatched up for the oc- 
casion, are paid by salaries which hardly 
e:Kceed the wages of the menial servant or 
the common labourer, — and that; as a neces- 
sary consequencet ignorant and disqualified, 
they are perhaps even overpaid by the pit- 
tance vrhich thejT receive. 

Yet it is in such schools and by such in- 
Btructers that thirty-eight out of forty of the 
children of the nation are, as we phrase it, 
educated. We have lived in a pleasing de- 
lusion ; but it is time ws should awake. 

I do not hesitate to avow the belief, that 
without regulations far more extensive than 
have yet been introduced,— a control far 
more enlightened and constant than has yet 
been exercised, — and fiscal aid far more am- 
ple than has yet been afforded, it is vain to 
expect that the character of our common 
schools can be truly and permanently im- 
proved. It is conceded by all that nothing 
can be done without competent teachers, 
and such teachers, in the number and of the 
qualifications required, we can never have, 
unless they are properly trained, and pro- 
perly examined, and watched, and controlled, 
and, above all, properly rewarded. 

The dissemination of this book, and of 
the truths which it contains, will tend thus 
to prepare the public mind, to produce the 
right state of feeling and of thought ; for as- 
suredly it will not be read in vain by parents 
who are such in heart and in conscience, 
not in name merely. 

There are some truths which it may be 
painful to confess, yet are most necessary to 
be known. To the reflecting and the can- 
did it will not seem extravagant to say that 
the chief source of the evils, the disorders, 
the crimes which afflict society, is to be found 
in the heartless indifference of the higher 
classes, the rich, the educated, the refined, 
towards the comfort and well-being of those 
they term or deem their inferiors, and their 
consequent neglect of the intellectual and 
moral improvement of those who always 
have been, and would seem by the order of 
Providence, always must be, the most nu- 
merous class— those who depend on their 
daily labour for their daily support. 

It is this neglect, the alienation it pro- 
duces, the ignorance it perpetuates, the vices 
it fosters, which leave marked the broad line 
of separation, on the one side of which are 
the few, indolent, disdainful, proud, on the 
other the many, restless, envious, discon- 
tented. It is this which keeps the minds of a 
multitude in a constant state of irritation. 



and which, when the base demagogue seeks 
to arra^ the poor against the rich, collects 
the crowd of his willing auditors, and arms 
him with his dreaded power. 

It is this which caused the atrocities of 
the French Revolution, and which deepens 
and darkens the cloud that now hangs over 
England.* It is this neglect — the grand 
crime of civilized and Christian society, 
which, in every country, sooner or later, 
and in none more certainly than in our own, 
if continued, is destined to meet a fearful 
retribution. Here most emphatically is it 
true, that the people must be raised to the 
level of their rights and duties, must be made 
the safe depositaries of the power which 
they possess, or in the history of other re- 
publics we may read our own fate ;— first, 
lawless anarchy — next, the calm which feat 
and the bayonet produce— the calm of mili- 
tary despotism. 

How then are these evils to be prevented 1 
— this fate to be averted 1 I answer, all that 
is odious, all that is dangerous in the dis- 
tinctions which the free acquisition and the 
lawful enjoyment of property must always 
create, will soon vanish, and all classes be 
united in the enduring bonds of sympathy 
and gratitude, when the rich (I include all 
who have the leisure or means to bestow) 
shall understand and feel that it is their 
paramount duty to improve the physical and 
elevate the moral condition of their fellow* 
beings, or, to express nearly the whole in 
one word — to educate the poor. 

Let those on whom the burden ought to 
fall willingly assume — cheerfully sustain it, 
and there will be no further obstacle to the 
action of the legislature, no further difficulty 
in organizing a system effectual, permanent, 
universal. 



*Tke Working Classa of England. — Nr. C. 
Butler, in a apcecb in Farliament on s. late occaiion, 
said : — " Whenever I contemplate the coDdilion of the 
working claBscB— tbe deep sod dark gulf that separatei 
them from the knowledge and sympathies of their bu* 
periors in fortune, the utter ignorance in which weare 
of their feelings and wants, the little influence which 
we have over their conduct, and the little hold which 
we appear to have on their affections— I shrink with 
terror from the wild passions and dense ignorance that 
appear to be fermenting in that mass of physical force. 

^IHI3^ IBHIHJILillo 
A nation must be "truly blessed, if it were 
governed by no other laws, than those of 
this blessed book; it is so complete a sys- 
tem, that nothing can be added to or taken 
from it ; it contains every thing needful to be 
known or done ; it affords a copy for a king,, 
and a rule for a subject ; it gives instruction 
and counsel to a senate, authority and direc- 



ALPHABET FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB. 



41 



tioa to a magistrate ; it cautions a witneea, 
raquires an impartial verdict of a jury, and 
furnisbes a judge with his sentence ; it sets 
the husband as lord of the household, and 
the wife as mistrss of the table ; tells him 
how to rule and her how to manage. It en- 
tails honour to parents, aDd enjoins obe- 
dience upon children ; it points out a faith- 
ful and eternal guardian, to the departing 
husband and father, tells him with whom to 
leave his fatherless children, and in whom 
his widow is to trust, and promises a father 
to the former, and husband to the latter. It 



defends the ri^ht of all, and reveals ven- 
geance to . t he defrauder, over-ieacher, and 

i||Sf^reB8Qr. It is the first book and the oldest 
book in the world. It contains the choicest 
matter, gives the best instruction, and affords 
the greatest pleasure and satisfaction that 
ever were revealed. It contains the best laws 
jAnd piofoundest mysteries that ever were 

'penned. It J^ings the best tidings, and af- 
fords the best of comforts to the inquiring 
and disconsolate. It exhibits life and im- 
mortality, and shows the way to everlasting 
glory. 



THE PAST. TO THE FUTURE, 

The following sentiment from an address delivered at the second centennial celebration 
of the settlement of Bostpn, is significant and impressive : — " The great comprehensive 
truths^ written in letters of living light on every page of our history,— the language ad- 
dressed by every past age of New England to all luture ages, is this — Human happiness 
has no perfect security but freedom; freedom none but virtue; virtue none but knowledge; 
and neither iVeedom, virtue, nor knowledge, has any vigour, or immortal hope, except in 
the principles of the Christian faith, and in the sanctions of the Christian religion." 



DACTYLOLO&Y, (Finger Talking,) 

OR 

ALPHABET FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB, 



This Alpbabet ezpluos itself. Half an hour is auffi- 
cient to acqture a knowledge of it, and sbort practicfl 
will give ease and rapidity. It may be made a tneana 
of aiDiuement, and occaaioaally of real service; while 
to none can it be without interest. Ttie first attempt at 
instructing the Deaf and Dumb was made by a Spanisb 
DiODk, who died in 1584. More has beeo done for 
Ibem in Ibe United States than in any other country. 
A BCD 



Note.— J and Z are figured in the air : J with the lit* 
lie finger, and Z with the fore finger. SigoificaDt ges- 
tures ofteo express whole sentences, and by means of 
the Manual Alphabet all the words and phrases of con- 
versation can be expressed. The words should be sepa- 
rated, either by a slight pause, or a horizontal molion 
of the band from right to left, or a snap of the fingen. 




43 



LAW. 
THE LAW. 



Every citizen ahould earne|tiy and opn- 
Etantly bear in mind the important fact, that 
his only safety, for person, property, liberty 
and life, is in the absolute supremacy of the 
constitution and the lawti. 

Setting on elections.— Th\^ is an ej^tenEive and pe^. 
Dictous evil, alike injurious to Ihe citizen and to the 
purity of elections. All are interesleS in ils suppres-' 
Gion ; let all ttien unite in getting up and presenting pe- 
titions to the several state legislatures Tor ihe passage of 
a law similar to that introduced into Ihe Legislature of 
Missouri against betters and the stakeholders, and fining 
both to the aniouDl of the money or properly bet. Also 
punishing by fine, any person who may publish a bet, 
or assist iu any way in making iti 

A decision in Ohio makes proprietors of stages re- 
sponsible for passengers' bageage, notwithslaadlng their 
caution of " All baggaee at (Tie risk of the owners." 

A Non-reaidBnt.—A. person having a place of busi- 
ness in a city or town, and boarding asd lodging in an- 
other, is a non-resident in his place of business. 

TitUt of land derived under sales for lazes are de- 
clared good by Supreme Court of Illinois. 

A Saletman receiving a per centage is not thereby 
constituted a partner, 

Breach of trust is where valuables are received in 
the course of employment, for or in the name of the 
employer, and embezzled ; but if the valuables have 
come to the possession of the employer, the offence is 
larceny, 

A Hushaiid: he is liable for goods furnished bis 
wife, if, from ill trealmentorothersufScient cause, she 
does not live with him ; but if she leave him from 
unjustifiable cause, he is not liable even for necessaries, 
whether the tradesman knows of such, separation or 
not. 

Erasing or altering an endorsement of a payment 
on a note is forgery. 

A tovm is liaise for damages occasioned by any ob- 
struction placed on the road by human agency, and 
ia bound (o make lOdds safe and convenient for travel- 
lers. 

Cmnmon Carriers.— The owners of a steamboat are 
responsible to shippers of goods as common carriers. 

Common carriers, if they make a wrong delivery, 
are responsible for any loss. 

The owners of goods must haye them properly 
marked, and entered in carriers' books; and if he ne- 
glects to do it, he must bear the loss. 



^ At the present day every man has a fling at the nn- 
.certainty of the law, Tet upon investigation, it would 
anp&r Ihat in at least nine coses out of ten, the uncer- 
tainty complained of, is not in the Zaui, but in tbe/ocfa to 
wbichit isto^^^pplied. The law hns sins enough of its 
own to answer for;— defects sufficiently abundant — con- 
tradictions— doubts— even absurdities, which ought to 
1^8 removed or amended,— but, with all these, we re- 
peat that, in proportion to the number of disputes which 
arise between man and man, Ihere are very few cases, 
in which, if Ihe facta were clearly ascertained, any re- 
spectable member of the profession could not, without 
hesitation, say what would be the law. 

The event of liUsation is indeed almost always nn- 
certajn: the law rarely so. Nor could any plan be 
devised for deslroyin^Jhis quality Of llligatioD. If (he 
most minute, distinct and intelligible rule were laid 
down for every variety of possible circumstances, 
(which, by the by, never has been or can be done,) there 
would remain sources of uncertainty almost as fruitful 
as those which now exist. For after all, what would ha 
the rule of law proper to be applied in any case, would 
depend entirely upon the facta, and those facts must 
be proved by human testimony, and to the BatlBfaclioo 
of a human tribunal ; the testimony and the tribunal 
being both human, therefore both fallible ; — the former 
liable to incorrectness or incompleteness occasioned 
by intentional falsehood, imperceptible bias, or defect 
of memory— the latter [throwing out of view wilful 
error as of rare occurrence,) equally liable to misdeci- 
sioD from prejudice, misapprehension or defect of judg- 
ment. 

These are faults not of this or that particular system, 
but of human nature. They will be entirely cured, 
whenever mankind shall be rendered perfect in ho- 
nesty, memory, appreheoaion and judgment, but not 
till then. 



UirCERTAINTY OF THE LAW. 

A man falls into a dispute with his neighbour, runs 
to his counsel, tells his story in his own way, forgets 
those facts which are against him,— relates the rest with 
that sort of exaggeration which is natural to a parly, — 
undertakes to prove the whole case as he has staled it, 
— and asks for legal redress. After such an examina- 
tion, a suit is instituted, — the trial comes on,— the plain- 
tiff's witnesses are heard, they reduce in a great de- 
gree Ihe colouring which Ihe parly himself had given; 
the defendant's witnesses prove many new fncta, which 
totally change the complexion of the case, — it is decided 
in favour of the defendant, and the plainliiTever after 
complains ot—tlie uncertainty of ihe law. 

The f^ull, it is evident, was in himself. If he had 
told the truth in the first instance, he might have saved 
his money, time and temper. 



A D .V I C E . 

tn law, as in physic, it may truly be observed, that 
prevention is better than Ihe risk of cure. The pre- 
ceding remarks on the "Uncertainly of the law," are 
full of instruction, and point out the risk, besides the 
certain expense, delay, loss of time, vexation, ill-fbel- 
ing and trouble of law-suits, which in every shape or 
form should be avoided. " Agree with Ihine adversary 
quickly :" do so even at a sacrifice, t»ing assured that the 
intricacies of the law, with its twistings, and turnings; 
its precedents innumerable, decisions contradiclory ; 
its nice technicnlities, forms, and mysteries, are all m- 
exhauslible and incomprehensible, and combine, too 
frequently, to render law an overmatch for plain bo- 
nesiy iind simplejuslice. 

If differences arise, and a reference must be made 
to others, let it be to mutual friends— to disinterested 
persons selected by l>oth parlies, and make up your 
mind to abide the result, « 



CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. 
Public attention is becoming awakened to the enor- 
mity of taking human life. Not only humanity but 
policy is against it. There is not a point so well-esta- 
blished in the Bcienceof Criminal Law as that of severe 
punishments increasing crimes, except, perhaps, that 



PRESIDENTIAL ELEC TlO N — 1840. 



43 



of mild punishmeDts diminiBfaiDg tbem. The abtistica 
on tbis subject are perfectly concluaive. InEngland, 
ID 1821, there were 114 execulions, and id iS38 odIv 
6, while crime williin that period has dimiDished in a 
npid and remarkable degree. Similar results have 
followed the partial disuse of the puoistipieut of death 
in Ftance, Prussia, and Belgium. Whaler experience 
has been acquired by this unexampled reform, has, at 
Jeaat, been safely and ionocenUy gained. Some hun- 
-dreds of olFenden, had they committed their crimes a 
few years before, would have died by the hand of lbs ; 
executioner. They have been allowed to live. Life, 
the ooly season of repentance, with all its opportuni- 
ties of regaining the favour of an offended Deity, has 
been contiDued to them ; and from tbis leoity, society 
has derived no injury, uo loss. 

For murder, the penally of death, as an example, is 
momentary, and of do beneficial eSect. It disgusts 
tbe good, and brutalizes the had, who witoess the 
spectacle. Aa an act of extreme violence, it teaches 
violence to the people; as an act of deliberate homi- 
cide, it dimioisbes the regard due to the sanctity of 
life, and renders murder less revoUiog to the unin- 
■tructed mind. 

When vrill those who are chosen to make laws for 
ns, when will men who profess Chrisiianity, learn 
and practise something of the Christian spirit, against 
which every feature of this law is at opeu war ? Ca- 
pital punisbmeDt is a blot upon our institutions, and 
a disgrace to any civilized community. 



^n account current rendered and accepted without 
objeclioiy|beiD^inade in a reasonable time, pjecludes 
Dbjection^me^p^rds, and hiakes It a stated acctmnt. 

i/I PFiU dictated and taken do^vn in pencil only, and 
signed by two fitnesses, is valid, if deceased was in 
sound miDd when be ^ve the iuslruclions. 

Munfer.—Thepuaishmentof death is revolting, but, 
nevertheless, while it continues to be (he law, the ju* 
roi' who nicks hia mind for an excuse to avoid the per- 
formance of a- painful duly, forgets that in sDving a 
forfeited Iife,4ii8 verdict becomes a recorded liceiiH 
for future assassinations. 

NATURALIZATION LAWS. 

Congress alone has power to make or r^;ulats the 
laws of Naturalization. 

An alien must renounce in court, allegiance, &c. to 
any foreign power, and declare intention of becomiog a 
citizen at least two yenrs before admission. Must 
swear to support the constilulion, renounce any he- 
reditary title or order of nobility, and must have re- 
sided five years m the couoliy, and wtisly the court 
that he has behaved as a man of good moral character, 
attached to the principles of the Constitution of tbe 
United States, and well disposed to the good order and 
happiness of the same. 

Excellent laws, if well admtnislered ; but how 
shamefully disregarded ! The mockery too frequently 
enacted io their administralioD, in at least some of our 
courts, is matter of pain and humiliation, and to none 
more so than the inlelligeot naturalized cilizeo himself. 

Children of naturalized citizens, if under tweoiy-one 
years of age at the time of their parents' naturatizalioD, 
shall, if dwelling in the Unitea Slates, be coDsidered 
as citizens. An alien baying declared his intention, 
and dying before be was naturalized, his widow and 
children, on taking the oalhs prescribed, shall be en- 
titled to all the rights of citizenship. 



PRESIDENTIAL E L E C TI ON — 1 8 4 O. 



FOR PRESIDENT. 

Votes in the Electoral College. 
William Heory Harrison ---.,.-.. 234 
Martin Van Buren 60 

FOR VICE PRESIDENT. 

John Tyler 234 

Richard M. JobnsoD 4g 

Lyttleton Tazewell II 

James Folk 1 

FoptOar Vote. Har. V. B. 

Maiofc - - 46,612 46,201 

New Hampshire, 26,434 32,670* 

Vermont, - - 32,445 18,029 

Massachusetts, 72,874 61,944 

Rhode Island, 6,213 3,263 

CoBoecticut, 31,601 25,296 

New York, 225,813 212.519 

New Jersey, ...... 33,360 31,034 

FennsyWania, 144,019 143.676 

Delaware, 6,967 4,884 

Maryland, . - i. . . . • 33,028 28,732 

Vircinia, 42.501 43,SS3 

North Carolina, 46.376 33,7t3 

Georgia, 40,275 31,933 

Alabama, 28,471 33.992 

Mississippi, 19,518 16,995 

Louisiana, It,296 7,616 

Tennessee, •■ 60,391 48,289 

Kentucky, 58,489 32,616 

Missouri, 22,972 29.760 

Ohio, 148,157 124,782 

Indiana, ■ - 65,308 51,685 

Illinois, 45,537 47,476 

Michigan, 22.907 21,008, 

Arkansas, .-...-. 4.462 6.048 
South Carolina, > • • chAseD by the Legielature. 



THE MORAL OF THE ELECTION. 

The spectacle of a free people Hubmitting 
every thing to the ballot boxes, and abiding 
the result in the decision of the majority, is 
indeed delightful. In the preliminaries there 
is lesB to rejoice at ; but in the quiet Bubordt' 
nation to the great principles of oar social 
system, which has just been exhibited, we 
feel the highest joy. We have in it the as- 
Burance that the people understand their high 
responsibility, as freemen : that while each 
citizen claims his own rights, he is willing to 
accord as much to his fellows. 

One reason for the superior quiet of the 
late election is, that people no longer imagine 
the existence of freedom and the permanency 
of its institutions to depend on the result of 
an election. Americans have grown confi- 
dent in the stability of their systein, and if 
the right men and right principles cannot be 
made to succeed this time, they expect the 
steady workings of a sound system to bring 
all right at last. In the earlier days of our 
nation, republicanism was an experiment, 
which had before been often tried, and had 
as often failed ; and it was thought it might 
very possibly fail again in this its last and 
best effort. But it is not so now. Few men 
now feel doubtful as to the full success and 
perpetuity of liberty in these United States. 



44 



PRESIDENTIAL E LE C T I N — 1840. 



APPROPRIATE. 

PASSAGES FKOM THE FAB.EWELL 

ADDUESS OF WASHm&TON. 
"The uDity of governmeut wliioji conatitutea you 
ODG people, IB now dear to you. It is justly so ; for it 
is a main pillar in the edifice of your real indepeD- 
deoce; the support of your Iranquillityat home; your 
peace abroad j of your aafely ; of your prosperity ; of 
that very liberty wlucb you ao bighly prize. 

* * * 4t * * * 
" It is of inGoite moment, that you should properly 

estimate the immense value of your oational union to 
your collective and individual happiness; that you 
should cherish a cordial, habitual, and immovable at- 
tachment to it; accustoming yourselves to think and 
speak of ifas of the palladium of your polilical safely 
and prosperity ; vratching for its preservation with 
jealous anxiety j diacounlcnancing whatever may sug- 
gest even a auspicion that it can, in any event, be 
abandoned ; and indignantly frowning upon the first 
dawning of every attempt to alienate any portion of 
our country from the rest, or to enfeeble the sncred ties 
which now link together (be various parts. 

*' For this you have every inducement of sympathy 
and interest. Citizens by birth, or choice, of a com- 
mon country, that- country has a right to concentrate 
your affections. The name of American, which be- 
longs to you in your national capacity, must always 
exalt the just pride of patriotism, more than any ap' 
pellation derived from local discriminations. With 
slight shades of difference, you have the same religion, 
manners, habits, and political principles. You have, 
in a common cause, fought and triumphed together ; 
the independence and liberty you possess, are the work 
of joint efforts, of common dangers, sufferings and 
success." 

When templed to the violence of heated parlizan- 
ship, we have reverently remembered the farewell 
counsels of that same pure and exalted patriot : 

" The spirit of party is, unfortunately, inseparable 
from our nature, having its root ia the strongest pas- 
sions of the human mind. « * * * 

"The alternate dominion of one faction over ano- 
ther, sharpened by the spirit of revenge natural to 
party dissensions, whicli, in different ages and coun- 
tries, has perpetrated the most horrid enormities, is it- 
self a frightful despoiism. But this leads at length to 
a more format and permanent despotism. The disor- 
ders and miseries which result, gradually incline the 
minds of men to seek security and repose in the abso- 
lute power of an individual; and, sooner or later, the 
chief of some prevailing faction, more able or more 
fortunate than his competitors, turns this disposition to 
the purposes of his own elevation on the ruins of pub- 
lic liberty. # » » * » 

" It serves always to distract the poblic councils and 
enfeeble the public administration. It agitates the 
community with ill-founded jealousies and false alarms; 
kindles the animosilies of one part against another; fo- 
ments occasional riot and insurrection. 

* * * * * + * 

" In those of the popular character, in governments 



purely elective, it is a spirit not to be eacooraged. 
From their natural tendency, it is certain, there will 
always bo enough of party spirit for cv^ lalutuy 
purpose. And there being constant danger of eicesi, 
the effort ought to be, by force of public opinion,, to 
mitigate and assuage it. A lire not to be quonched, it 
demands a jiQiform Tigilance to prevent it bursting 
into a flame, lest, instead ol warming, it should con- 



POLITICIANS — OFFICE HTJWTERS, 
By Jvdgt Sophimon. 

In the conclusion of the address,* the Lecturer et. 
hortE;d the members to be constant and diligent in their 
atleotioD lo the duties and exercises of tbeir associa- 
tion ; to improve themselves by the exercise of their 
faculties or the power of examining and discussing 
subjects of science and literature ; in the art of com- 
position and Ihe habit of delivering their opinions and 
arguments in public, wjlh facility and propriety. He 
proceeded — In this country, where every place of pub- 
lic employment waits alike upon every citizen, where 
the worth of Ihe man is his recommendation, and we 
know nothing of the distinctions of birrh and blood, 
who can suf that he may not be called to the perlbrm- 
ance Of duties which will require a facility of speech 
and pen. The balls of legislation are open lo ill. Tou 
may find yourselves there, or in other situations of pnb* 
lie trust, for which the exercises of your association 
may be a necessary preparation to enable you to ac- 
quit yourselves with honour and usefulness. 

Do not, however, believe that I can be so treacherous 
a counsellor as to mean to hold out to you inducements 
to feeh political preferment. Bui it may seek you; it 
may be put upon you at times and under circumstances 
when, as good citizens, you cannot decline il. I would 
rather say to you, avoid it, as a path beset witb diflfl- 
culties and danger; mortifications and disappoint- 
ments. The man who sets out in life to live by public 
office will surely die in poverty and neglect. I wouM 
not direct your aspirations to such objects. I would 
Dot light up io your hearts Ihe low and disgraceful 
ambition of an office- hunter. The only independent 
man is he who depends upon himself, tiely upon the 
power and skill of your own hands ; npOD the inge- 
nuity and iutelligence of your own heads; upon your 
industry, prudence and integrity. They will never de- 
ceive or desert you ; you will never lose your popular- 
ity with them. Make them the foundation of your 
fortune and respectability, and they will not sink un- 
der you. Serve your country, when your country 
wants you, but seek not popular favour at the expense 
of your honour, independence and self-reepeet. Of all 
the occupations to which pride or idleness can drive a 
mao, the most d^rading is that of a be^ng polkieiao, 
a regular place-hunter. He is a conqwund of mean- 
ness, hypocrisy and falsehood. He is ready to serve 
all, and to betray all. He is true to nothing but his 
own selfishness. 

The age of the venerable lecturer and his station, 
removed from the prejudices and coiifliets of parly, 
give weight lo his admonitions, which should be re- 



# A popular lecture before the Athenlso Insttlule, 
FhllQdelphis. 



SYNOPSIS. 



45 



ceived as those of an impartial judg%. We are firm 
in the cODviction that amoog the greatest evila with 
vrhich our beloved country is or can be atRicted is the 
bankering after oSSce, It is a curse alike pBrnicious 
to the general and to individual welfare. Instances 
eveiywbere alwund of men with good trades or with 
talent and abilities to insure success in any honest and 
independent calling, who have neglected their busi- 
ness in hopes of securing an office. They forsake the 
certain means of subsistence, if not independence, 
which their business offers for the uncertainly of of- 
fice. A regular business is neglecledor given up for 
two or three years' enjoyment of office ; the emolumeot 
of which is barely sufficient >o aftbrd a living. Sufi'er- 
iog a constaDt tax on his time and purse, and the for- 
mation of idle, dissolute or onsettled habits, he soon 
finds himself turned out to make room for some new 
favourite. It has been truly asserted that " nothiog so 
much unfits a mau for the usual occupations of life as 
office. The habit of having a salary to depend upon, 
takes away the common stimulus to exertion, and the 
idleness often attendant upon offic^ leads to a great 
many tad habits difficult to correct. Salary men gen- 
erally spend all their salaries, and have but lillle to 
lay up for aickness or old age. A rich office-holder is 



generally a novelly, and a contented office-holder is a 
greater novelty still.'' 

The Public welfare is no less endangered by this in* 
ordinate thirst for office, since experience has so fre- 
quently demonstrated the fact that measures of great 
national importance have befen adtqited or neglected 
solely with reference to their effects upon party. The 
paramount interesis of tbe state or the ^untry have 
been too often sacrificed in the unworthy scramble for 
office. In the declaration that " to the victors belong 
the spoils," the monstrous principle has been avowed 
of "spoils and plunder;" as though tbe enlightened 
freemen of the country of WASHINGTON were 
called dd to exercise the glorious right of suffrage not 
to preserve our free inatilutions, not to promote the 
general welfare, not to maintain Ihe prosperity which 
the country has so largely participated in, or to per- 
petuate the liberties with which we are blessed, not for 
objects so sacred as these, but for the unworthy and 
unhallowed purpose of plunder ! ! Though judicious 
changes in office may at times be proper and necessary, 
yet the idea of holding up the offices of the country u 
" rewards and spoils " for reckless partlzans is a senti- 
ment that should be reprobated by every true Ameri- 
can. 



SYNOPSIS, 

Showing the year in zohich each State of the Union was settledt and by what peoph 
the number qf square miles— time of holding electiona—qualijication ofvotera^ and 
number ^Representatives and Electors from each State. 



MAINE. Settled 1630, by English; 32,000 square 
miles ; capital Augusta ; General Election second Mon- 
day inSeplember; Legislature meet first Wednesday 
in January ; Voters must reside in tbe stale three 
months before any election ; sends Members of Con- 
gress, S; Electors, 10. 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. Settled 1623, by English; 
9500 square miles ; capital Concord ; General Election 
second Tuesday in March ; Legislature meets on the 
first Wednesday in June ; Voters require no other qua- 
lification than to be twenly-one years of age ; sends 
Members of Congress, 6 ; Electors, 7. 

MASSACHUSETTS. Settled 1620, by English; 7500 
square miles ; capital Boston ; General Election second 
Mond^iy in November ; Legislature meet first Wednes- 
day in January ; Voters, one year's residence in Ihe 
stale, and have paid a slate or county tax ; sends Mem- 
ben of Congress, 12 ; Electors, 14. 

VERMONT. Settled 1749, by Englisb; 10,200 
square miles; capital Montpelier; General Election 
first Tuesday in 5eptemt>er ; Legislature meet second 
Thursday in October ; Voters, to reside in the state one 
year ; sends Members of Congress, 5 ; Electors, 7. 

RHODE ISLAND. Settled 1636, by English ; 1360 
square miles ; capital Providence ; General Eleclion for 
governor and senators in April ; for represenraiivea in 
April and August ; Legislature meet first Wednesday 
in June and last Wednesday in October ; Voters must 
be resident in the state three months, and bave a free-' 
hold of 134 dollars; sends Members of Congress, 2; 
Electors, 4. 

CONNECTICUT. Settled 1633, bv English ; 4760 
square miles; capital New Haven; General Election 
first Monday in April ; Legislature meet first Wednes- 
day in May ; Voters lo hold a freehold of 7 dollars 
per annum, or have done Military duty, paid a slate 
tax, and taken tbe prescribed oath ; sends Members of 
Congress, 6 ; Electors, 8. 

NEW YORK- Settled 1614, by Dutch ; 46,000 
square miles ; capital Albany ; General Election first 



Monday in Nov.Sdays; Legislature meet first Tuesday 
in January : Voters, citizens 21 years of age, inhabitants 
of state for last year, and resident of county for last six 
months ; coloured men, 'a freehold of 250 dollars, paid 
taxes, and been a citizen three years ; sends Memnen 
of Congress, 40 ; Electors, 42. 

NEW JERSEY. Settled 1624, by Danes^ 8300 
square miles; capital Trenloo; General Election, se- 
cond Tuesday in October ; Voters, to be citizens of the 
state one year, and worth fifty pounds proclamation 
money ; sends Members of Congress, 6 ; Electors, 8. 

PENNSYLVANIA. Settled 16S2, by English * 
44,000 sq. miles : capital, Barrisburg ; Gen. Elec 2d 
Tuesday in Oct. ; Legislature meet 1st Tues. in Jan. ; 
Voters, white, one year in slate, 10 days where voting, 
and pay tax assess^ 10 days before election, between 
21 and 22 vote without tax ; sends Mem. of Con., 28. ; 
Electors, 30. 

DELAWARE. Seltled 1627, by Swedes and Fins . 
2100 square miles ; capital Dover ; General Election 
2d Tuesday in October, or November ; Legislature 
meet first Tuesday in January ; VoteiB, the same qua- 
lifications required as in Fenosylvania ; sends members 
of Congress, 1 ; Electors, 3. 

MARYLAND. Settled 1634, by English ; 14,000 
square miles; capital, Annapolis; General Eleclion 
firat Monday in October ; Legislalure meet first Mon- 
day in December; Voters, one year's residence in the 
county where he shall offer lo vote; sends Members 
of Congress, 8; Ellegtors, 10. 

VIRGINIA. Setfled 1607, by English ; 64,000 square 
miles ; capital Richmond ; General Election in April ; 
Legislature meet first Monday in December ; Voters, 
freehold of value of 25 dollars, or been a housekeeper 
one year, or been assessed, amounts to almost univer- 
sal suffrage; sends Members of Congress, 31; Elec- 
tors, 23. 

NORTH CAROLINA. Settled 1650, by. English J 
48,000 square miles ; capital Raleigh; General Elec- 
tion in August ; L^islature meet second Monday m 



46 



MANUFACTURES— FOREIGN TRADE. 



November; Voter, citizen of the state one year, may 
votB'tor 3. member of the House of Commons, but must 
own fifty acrea of land .to vote for a senator ; seiids 
Member! of Congress. 13 ; Electors, 15. 

SOUTH CAROLINA- Settled 1689, by English; 
24,00f square miles; capital Columbia ; General Elec- 
tion sefiond Monday in October ; Legislature meet 4lh 
Monday in November ; Vfller, resident of the alate two 
years, and six montUa of the district where voting ; 
sends Members of Congress, 9 ; Electors; 11. 

GEORGIA. Setlled 1733, by English ; 60,000 square 
miles; capital Milledgeville ; General Election first 
Monday in October; Legislature meet first Monday in 
November ; Voter, citizen of the state, and six months' 
residence of county where voting, and have paid all 
(axes impo^') upon him ; sends Members of Congress, 
9 j Electors, tl. 

l!X)UISIANA. Settled 1699, by French; 48 000 
square miles ; capital New Orleans ; General Election 
firs! Monday in July ; Legislature meet first Monday 
in January ; Voter, to reside one year in the county, 
and paid taxes within tbe last six months; sends Mem- 
bers of Congress, 3 ; Electors, 5. 

OHIO. Settled 1788, by English ; 39,000 sq. miles; 
capital, Columbus ; General Election 2d Tuesday in 
Oct. J Legislature meet 1st Monday in Dec ; Voter, 
one year's residence in the state preceding the election, 
having paid, or been charged with, slate or county tax; 
sends Mem. of Con. 19; Electors, 21. 

KENTUCKY. Sett]edl776, by Virginians; 42,000 sq. 
miles ; cap. Frankfort ; General Election first Mon- 
day in August ; Legislature meet first Monday in No- 
vember; Voters, two years' residence in the slate, and 
in the county where offering to vote, one year preced- 
ing the election; sends members of Congress, 13; 
Electors, 15. 

ILLINOIS. Settled 1749, by French ; 52,000 square 
miles ; capital, Vandalia ; General Election first Mon- 
day in August ; Legislature meet first Monday in De- 
cember; Voter, residence in the state six months, but 
can only vote in the county where he actually resides; 
sends Members of Congress, 3 ; Electors 5. 

INDIANA. Seltled 1730, by French j 36^000 sq. 
miles; capital, Indianapolis; General Election first 
Monday in August ; liCgistature meet first Monday in 
December ; Voter, one year's residence in (he state 
preceding the election, entitles to vote in county of 
residence ; sends Members of Congress, 7 ; Electors, 9. 

ALABAMA. Settled 1715, by Frenchj cap. Tub- 
caloosa; General Election first Monday in August; 
Legislature meet fourth Monday in October; Voter, 
citizen of the United States, one year of this, and three 
months' residence in the county where he shall offer to 
vote ; sends Members of Con^ss, 5 ; Electors, 7. 

MISSKSIFFL Setlled 1716, by French; capital, 



Jackson; General Election first Monday in August ; 
Legislature meet first Monday in November : Voter, 
citizen of the Uaited Stales, aod one year's residence in 
this, and in county six months, and have done military 
duty, or paid taxes; sends Members of Congress, 2; 
Electors, 4. 

MISSOURI. Settled 1763. by French; 60,000 sq. 
liles ; capital, Jefferson City ; General Election first 
Monday in August; Legislature meet first Monday in 
Novembt;r; Voter, citizen of the United Slates, one 
year's residence in Ihis state next preceding the elec- 
tion, and three months in the county ; sends Members 
of Congress, Z ; Electors, 4. 

TENNESSEE. Settled in 1765, by English ; 40,000 
square miles; capital, Nashville; Gen. Election first 
Tuesday in August ; Legislature meet fini Monday in 
October ; Voter, citizen of the United States, and six 
months in county where his vote is offered; sends 
Members of Congress, 13; Electors, 15. 

FLORIDA for near 200 years under Spain, was 
ceded to United States in tSI9, and the East and West 
formed one Territory in 1822 ; St. Augustine is the 
oldest town in the United States ; Tallahassee is the 
capital ; Fensacola U. S. naval station. 

MICHIGAN. Settled in 1670, by the French; 
contains 65,000 square miles ; Indiana, 30,000 ; capital, 
Detroit; Soil rich; Iron, copper and lead cnines 
abound ; Qualifications, kc. not ascertained. 

ARKANSAS. Seltled by French from Louisiana, 
and formed from a part of Missouri in 1819 ; containi 
57,000 square miles ; admitted in the Union 183G ; cap. 
Little Rock; Qualifications of voters, &c. not yet as- 
certained. 

WISCONSIN. Settled by emigrants from other, 
principally New England Slates ; bounded by lakes 
Michigan and Superior on the £., by Hudson Bay Co. 
Territories on the N., Illinois on the S., Mississippi 
and Iowa on the West; conlains 80,000 square miles; 
capital, Madison. 

IOWA, Territory, lies between Missouri and Misais- 
sippi rivers, bounded on the N. by Hudson Bay Co. 
Territories; conlains 150,000 square miles; purchased 
of Sacs and Foxes, 1832; capital, Iowa City. 

INDIAN or Western Territory extends from the 
western boundary of Arkansas and Missouri to Red 
river on tbe S., and the Punca and Flatte or Nebraska 
on the N. ; roughly estimated at about 275,000 square 
miles. The Western Territory, extending to the 
Rocky mountains, contains 340,000 square miles. Co- 
lumbia or Oregon Territory, claimed by the United 
States, is about 850 miles long N. and S., 400 to 700 
miles broad, and estimated to contain 350,000 sq. miles. 

*** TWO SENATORS are sent from each State, 
in addition to the preceding enumeration of Members 
of Congress. 



MANUFACTURES. 

Estimated J3n7iual Value of Marmfac- 
turcs.— Aegregate value $350,000,000. Cot- 
ton manufactures $50,000,000. Woollen do. 
$70,000,000. Leather do. $40,000,000. Linen 
$6,000,000. Hals, caps, &c. $15,000,000. 
Glass $5,000,000. Paper $6,000,000. Soap 
and candles $10,000,000. Spirils $5,000,000. 
Cabinet-ware $10,000,000. Iron $50,000,000. 



FOREIGN TRADE. 

Ex/portiio 



Impoi-ts from 
Great Britain and 

dependencies, - $49,051,181 
France and do. - - 18,0H7,]49 
Spain and do. - - 15.97I,3P4 
Netherlands and do. 2,436,166 

China 4.764,536 

Mexico - 3,500,709 

TexQS - 165,718 



OUE. TRADE WITH TRANCE. 
In 1839 our exports to France amounted (o 18,336,- 
3M dollars. The principal arricle which we send to 
France is cotton. Of the aggregate exporis just named, 
13,323,142 dollars was in cotton, 710,063 dollars in to- 
bacco, and 320,911 dollars in rice. Our imports from 
France during the same year, reached the aura of 32,- 
rai,321 dollars, of which 15,099,478 dollars was in 
siUu; l,379,97Ddollar8 in wines; worsted and woi^ted 



$58,843,392 
^^16252,413 
7,684;006 
3.772,296 
1,608,433 
2,164,097 
l,247,r" 



stuff goods 1 ,500,000 dollars, linen 600,000 dollars, and 
manufactured cotton goods less than one million of 
dollars. This statement shows an excess of imports 
over exports, of 14,I94,'16"' dollars for the year above 
named. In a comparison of the imports from France 
of 1S39 with those of the previous year, it appears that 
they were nearly doubled— the difference in nlks alone 
being nearly 10,000,000 dollars in 1839 over the im- 
ports of 1838— while the increase of exports during 
tbe same period was only 2,414,449. 



GENERAL DISTANCES— TRAVELLING ROUTES. 47 



GENERAL DISTANCES. 



FROM WASHINGTON TO THE METROPOLIS OR CHIEF 
TOWN OF EACH STATE ." ALSO, FROM EACH METROPO- 
LIS TO EACH OF THE OTHERS. 



;^B a g B S S af S-r 5 S-^ = E^2 " 2 I S = g g ^ 
|=fcg 2.=:9f." i all i illK'K™-''^ i = 5- 






oo 3 



ESSSSESSi 



I £ Wasbiogtoo 





iig 


iiiiiiii§ii§s§sisa 


g 

si 


Portland 


ii 






Forlamoulh 
Burlingloa 



pisiiiiiiSiSsigga sSgiSI '""' ^"•' 

SggggSNewTork 



gsss 



ssssssSessssss 



o^Sot-^En 



silislgPliiMelphia 



S£^Si::SSgS%ggS S^gSSilisSSS Wilmington 

siiallSgliiai ffig35i|g3slas=>"i°"'" 

iSSSIlilSliS gggSSggglllg Richmond 
li§sg§iigia 5ll§ISiSSIi§S Newborn 
i3|iigSI|= sliSigiiliiiig Ch,rIo.ton 
S3Si§i§3§ siilaiSSiiisilisapannah 

iisisSsg lissliiiiililiiiM*'. 
iSssSss gssiliiiiiliiliii""'!'- 

S^SsSi SgiSiiSiisllsiSill New Orleans 

liiiiililiE «""»"= 

iSSSS^isiSS Louisville 

ffiffiS SSaSfelia:3ESSFe££S2S!SSS;3 Cincinnali 
2= g*.sg5g2|§|egg|2g|||||gNewAlb=my 

sB^ffiiMiimiiiii liiiilii st. i^^^ 



GENERAL TRAVELLKVG 
ROUTES. 

From Boatan to St. Louis, Mo. 
To New York - . . . 228 Miles 
Philadcdlpbia, 



Pillsburg, 
X^uisville, - 
St. Louis, - 



87 31S 

394 709 

587 1296 

568 1854 



From Boston to Augusta, Ga. 
To New York, - - - - 228 

CharlestoD, - - - 900 1128 
Augusta, Ga. - - 136 1264 

From New Fork to New OrUaav. 
To Cbarleaton, • - - . 900 

AuguEla, ... - 136 1036 

Mobile; 640 1576 

New Orleaos, - - 164 1740 

From New York to St. Louit, Mo. 

To Albany, 145 

Buffalo, 363 508 

Detroit, 317 825 

Cbicaso.Il,, • • - 286 1111 
St. Louis, • - • . 341 1462 

From New York to St. Augtatiru, Fl. 

To CharlestoD, • - • 900 

SavaDoah, - • . • 108 1008 
St. Augustine, - ■ 309 1317 

From New York to Chicago artd Oa- 



To Albany, • - 
Buffalo, - - 
Detroit, . ■ 
Chicago, II., 
Galena, • • 



145 

363 508 

317 825 

286 nil 

161 1372 



From New York to Q^el)ee, 

To Albany, 145 

Monircal, • • ■ • 252 397 
Quebec, 170 567 



From PhSadelphia to New Orleans. 
To FitUburg, Fau, - • • 394 

New OrleaDB, • - - 2003 2397 



From Philadelphia to Mobile. 

To Baltimore, - . . . 116 

WasbingtoD, - • • 40 166 

Milton, 14. 6..- • - 247 402 

Torkville, S. C, - - 197 699 

Abbeville, - . > - 106 705 

Milledgeville, - - - 115 820 

Columbua. ■ • . . 133 953 

Mobile, Al„ - . • 283 1261 

From Philadelphia to NashviOe, Ten. 

To Balliinore, ■ . ■ - US 

Wbeeling, . . - - 279 394 

Louisville, ■ - ■ . 495 889 

Nasbville, , • - • 524 1413 

From Philadelphia to Detroit. 

ToFlttaburg, . - ■ • S94 

Beaver, 28 422 

L^SauduBky, • • - 199 621 

Detroit, .... - 102 723 

From Philadelphia to Niagara litUs, 

To Easton, Fa., . . - 66 

£bDira,N. T., • - 16B 214 

Canandaigua, • - - 70 284 

NiagaiaFalls, . . . .101 385 



48 CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 



CONSTITUTION OF THK UNITED STATES. 



We, the people of the United States, in order to form a 
more perfect Union, establish justice, insure donles- 
tic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, pro- 
mote tbe general welfare, and secure the blessings of 
lilKrty to ourselves aud our posterity, do ordain and 
eatablish this Constitution for the United States of 
America. 

ARTICLE I. 
Sec. 1. ,AI1 IcKislalive powers herein granted shall 
be vested in a Congress of the United Slates, which 
shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. 
Sec 2. The House of Representatives shall be com- 
posed of members chosen every second year by the peo- 
ple of the several Stales, and Ihe electors in each State 
shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the 
moat numerous branch of the Slate Legislature. 

No pereOD shall be a Representative who shall not 
have atlaioed to the age of twenty-five years, and been 
seven years a citizen of the United Stales, and who 
shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State- 
in which he shall be chosen. 

Representatives and direct taxes shall he apportion- 
ed among the several States which may be included 
within this Union, according to their respect i vcnum- 
bera, which shall be determined by adding to Ihe whole 
number of free persona, including those bound to ser- 
vice for a term of year?, and excluding Indians not 
taxed, three-fiflhs of all other persons. The actual 
enumeration shall be made within three years after the 
first meeting of Ihe Congress of Ihe United States, and 
within every subsequent term of ten years, in such 
manner as they shall by law direct. The number of 
Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty 
thousand, but each State shall have at least one Repre- 
sentative ; and until such enumeration shall be made, 
the Stale of New Hampshire shall be entitled to choose 
three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island and Provi- 
dence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New York 
six, New Jersey four^ Pennsylvania eight, Delaware 
one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, 
South Carolina five, and Georgia three. 

When vacancies happen in the representation from 
any State, the executive authority thereof shall issue 
writs of election to fill such vacancies. 

The House of Representatives shall choose their 
Speaker and other officers, and shall have the sole 
power of impeachment. 

Sec. 3. The Senate of the United Slates shall he 
composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by 
the Legislature thereof, for six years; and each Sena- 
tor shall have one vole. 

Immediately after they shall be assembled in conse- 
quence of the first election, they shall be divided as 
equally as may be into three classes. The seats of the 
Senators of the first class shall be vacated at the expi- 
ration of Ihe second year, of the second class at ihe 
expiration of the fourth year, and of the third class at 
the expiration of the sixth year, so that one-third may 
be chosen every second year-; and if vacancies happen 
by resignation or otherwise, during the recess of the 
Legislature of any State, the executive thereof may 
make temporary appointments until the next meeting 
of (he Legislature, which shall then fill such vacan- 
cies. 

No person shall he a Senator who shall not have at- 
tained to Ihe age of thirty years, and been nine years a 
citizen of the l7nited States, and who shall liot, when 
elected, be an inhabitant of that State for which he 
shall be chosen. 

The Vice President of the United States shall be Pre- 
sident of the Senate, but shall b&ve no vote, unless Ihey 
be equally divided. 



The Senate shall choose their other ofHcers and 
also a President pro tempore, in the absence of the 
Vice President, or when he shall exercise the office of 
President of the United Stales, 

The Senate shall have the sole power to try all im- 

Eeachments. When sitting for that purpose, they shall 
c on oath or affirmation. When the Preiident of the 
United Stales is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside; 
aud no person slialt be cDnvicted without the concur- 
retice of two-thirds of the members present. 

Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend 
further thanto remo'val fiom office, and disqualifica- 
tion to hold, and enjoy any office of honour, trustor 
profit under the United Slates : but Ihe parl^ convicted 
shall nevertheless be liable and subject {o indiclmentj 
trial, judgmeufand punishment, according to law. 

Sec. 4. The. times, .places and manner of holding 
elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be pre- 
scribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but 
the Congress may at any time by law make or alter 
such regulations, except as 10 the places of choosing 
Senators. 

The.Congres3 shall assemble at least once in every 
year, and -such meeting shall he on the first Monday in 
December, unless they shall by law appoint a different 
day. 

_ Sec. 6. £ach house shall he the judge of Ihe elec- 
tions, returns and qualifications of its own members, 
and a majority of eaeh shall constitute a quorum to do 
business ; but a smaller number may adjourn from day 
to day, and may be authorized to compel the alteaa- 
ance of absent members, in such manner, and under 
such penalties as each house may provide. 

Each house may determine the rules of Hi proceed- 
ings, punish its members for disorderly behaviour, and) 
with the concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member. 

Each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings, 
and from time to lime publish the same, excepting such 
parts as may in Iheir judgment require secrecy ; and 
the yeas and navs of the members of either house on 
any queslion shall, at the desire of one-fifth of those 
present, be entered on the journal. 

Neither house, during the session of Congress, shall, 
without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than 
three days, nor to any other place than that in which 
the two houses shall be sitting. 

Sec. 6. The Senators and Representatives shall re- 
ceive a compensation for their services, to be ascer- 
tained by law, and paid out of the Treasury of the 
.United -States. They shall in all cases, except treason, 
felony, and breach of the peace, be privileged from ar- 
rest during their attendance at the session of their re- 
spective houses, and in going to and returning from the 
same; and far any speech or debate in either house, 
they shall not be questioned in any other place. 

No Senator or Represenlalive shall, during the time 
for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil 
office under the authority of the United Slates, which 
shall have been created, or the emoluments whereof 
shall have been increased during such lime; and no 

gerson holding any office under the United Slates, shall 
e a member of either house during his continuance in 
office. 

Sec. 7. All bills for raising revenue shall originate 
in the House of Representatives ; but the Senate may 
propose or concur with amendments as on other bills. 
Every hill which shall have passed the House of Re- 
presentdlivcs and the Senate, shall, before it become a 
law, be presented to the President of the United Slates; 
if he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return 
it, with his objections, lo that house in which it shall 
have originated, w^o shall enlcr the objections at large 
on their journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after 
such reconsideration two-thirds of that house shall 



CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 



49 



agr» to pasB the bill, it shall be not, together irilh the 
objections, to the oiuer house, by which it shall liKe- 
wise be leconaJdered, and if approved by two-thirds of 
that house, it sball become a law. But in all such cases 
the voles of both houses shall be delermiDed by yeas 
and nays, and the names of the penoDs voting for and 
■gaiost the bill shall be entered on Ihe journal of each 
house respectively. If any bill sliall not be returned 
by Ihe President within ten days (Sundays excepted} 
after it shall.have been presented to him, Ihe same 
shall be a bw, in like manner as if he bad signed it, 
unless tin CoDgreas by their adjournment prevent its 
return, ia which case it shall not be a law. 

Every order, rest^utioD, or vole to which the concur- 
>Knce of the.Senataaod House of Representatives may 
be necessary (except on a question of adjournment) 
shall be presented to tbe President of the United Stales ; 
and, before tbe same shall take effect, shall be approved 
by him^or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed 
by two-thirds of the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives, according to Ibe rules and limitations prescribed 
inlhe case of abilL 

Sec &■ The Congress shall have power— 

To lay and collect laxes, duties, imposts, and excises, 
to pay the dd>ls and provide for the common defence 
and' general welfafe'of tbe United States ; but all du- 
ties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout 
the United Stales ; ^ 

To borrow money on the credit of the United Slates j 

To>r^ulate commerce wilh foreign nations, and 
among the several Stales, and with the Indian Iribes ; 

To establish an uniform rule of nnturalization, and 
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies through- 
out the United States ; 

To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of 
foreign com, aod 6x Ihe standard of weights and mea- 
sures; 

To provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the 
securities and currenl coin of the United Stales ; 
- To establish post-offices and post-roads } 

To promote the progress of science and nieful arts, 
by securing for limited times to authors and inveotors 
the exclusive right to their respective writings and dis- 
coveries ; 

To GODstitnte tribunals inferior to the Supreme 
Court ; to define and punish piracies and felonies com- 
mitted-on Ibe high seas, and uffcsnces .igainst the law 
of nations; 

To declare war,^nt letters of marque and repri- 
sal, and make rules concerning captures on land and 
water J 

To raise and support armies; but no appropriation 
of money to that use shall be for a longer term than 
two years; 

To provide and mainlaio a navy ; 

To make rules for the government and regulation of 
tbe land and naval forces ; 

To provide for calling forth the militia to execute the 
bwi of tbe Union, suppress insurrections and repel in- 
vasions ; 

To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, 
Jbe militia, and for governing such part of Ihem as 
may be empWed in Ine service of the United Stales ; 
reserving to Ihe Stales respectively, the appointment 
of the officers, and the authority of training the militia 
according to Ibe discipline prescribed by (ingress ; 

To exercise exclusive legislation in alt cas^ what- 
soever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles 
square) as may, by cession of particubr Sta'ea, nnd Ihe 
acceptance of Conzress, become the seat of Ihe (3o- 
vemment of the United Slaves ; and (o exercise like 
autboriiy over all places purchased by tbe consent of 
Ihe legiuature of Ihe State in which the s^nie shall be, 
for Ihe erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock- 
yards, and other needful buildings ; and 

To make all laws which shall be necessary and 
proper for carrying into execution tbe foregoing pow- 
en, and all other powers vested by Ibis Constitution in 
the Government of Ihe United Stales, or in any de- 
partment or officer thereof. 

Sec. 9. Tbe mifralion or importation of such per- 



sons as any of the States now existing shall think pro- 
per to admit, shall not be prohibited by tbe Congress 
prior to Ihe year one thousand eight hundred and 
eight ; but a lax or duty mnv be imposed on such im- 
portation, not exceeding ten dollars for each person. 

The privilege of the writ of habeas corpua shall not 
be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or in- 
vasion the public safety may require i(. 

No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be 
passed. 

No capitation, or other direct tax shall be laid, un- 
less in proportion to the census or enumeration herein 
before directed to be taken. 

No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported 
from any State. No preference shall be given by any 
regulation of commerce or revenue to Ihe ports of one 
State over those of another j nor shall vessels bound to, 
or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay 
duties in another. 

No money shall be drawn from Ihe Treasury bnt in 
consequence of appropriations made by law; and a 
regular statement and account of the receipts and ex- 
penditures of all public money shall be published from 
time to time. 

No title of nobility shall be granted by Ihe United 
States: and no person holding any office of profit or 
trust under them, sh^ll, without the consent of Ihe 
Congress, accept of any present, emolument, office, or 
title, of any kind whatever, from any king, prince, pr 
foreign State. 

Sec. 10. No Slate shall enter into any treaty, alli- 
ance, or confederation; grant letters of marque and 
reprisal ; coin money ; emit bills of credit ; make any 
ihiqg but gold and silver coin a tender in paymeut of 
debts ; pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or 
law Impairing the obligation of contracts, or grant any 
title of nobility. 

No Slate shall, without the consent of the Congress, 
lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, ex- 
cept what in-\y be absolutely necessary for executing 
its inapeclion laws : and the netl produce of all duties 
and imposts, laid by any State on imports or exports, 
shall be for the use of Ihe Treasury of the United 
States ; and all such laws shall be subject to the levi- 
aion and control of the Congress. No Stale shall, with- 
out the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage, 
keep troops oi' ships of war in time of peace, enter 
into any a^ement or compact with another State, or 
with a foreign power, or engage in war, unless actu- 
ally invaded, or in snch imminent danger as will not 
admit of delay. 

ARTICLE n. 

Sec. 1. Tbe executive power shall fae vested in a 
President of the Ijnited States of America. He shall 
hold his office during the term, of four yean, and, to- 
gether wilh the Vice President, chosen for tbe same 
term, be elected, as follows : 

Each State shall appoini, in such manner as Ihe le- 
gislature thereof mav direct, a number of electors 
equal to Ihe whole number of Senators and Representa- 
tives to which Ihe Stale may he entitled in Ihe Con- 
gress : but no Senator or Representative, or pei'sun 
holding an office of trust or profit under the United 
Stales, shall be appointed an elector. 

Tbe electors shnll meet in their respective Stales, 
and vote by tellot for two persons, of whom one at 
least shall not be an inbahitant of tbe same Slate with 
themselves. And they shall make a list of all the per- 
sons \oted for, and of Ibe number of votes for each ; 
which list they shall sign and certify, and transmit 
sealed to the seat cf the Government of the United 
Stales, directed to the President of the Senate. The 
President of the Senate shall, in the presence of Ihe 
Senate and House of Repreoentatives open all the cer- 
tificates, and the voles shall then be counted. The pet- 
son having Ihe greatest number of votes shall be the 
President, if such number be a majority of the whole 
number of electors appointed ; and if there be more 
than one who have such majority, and have an equal 
number of votes, then the House of Representative* 



50 



CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 



shall immediately choose by biillot one of Ibem for 
Fresidenr^ and if no person have a majnrity, theo 
from the five highest on the list Ihe said house shall in 
like manner choose the Preaident. Bui io choosing 
the President, (he voles shall be taken by Slates, the 
represental ion from each Stale having one vote; a> 
quorum for (his purpose shall con>isl of a member or 
members from two-thirdii of the Stales, and a majority 
of nil (he Stales shall be necejaary to a choice. In 
every case, after the choice of the President, the per- 
son having the greatest number of votes of the electors 
shall be (he Vice President. But if (here should re- 
main two or more who have equal vote'*, the Senate 
shall choose from ihem by ballot ihe Vice Freiident. 

The Congress may determine Ihe time of choosing 
the electors, and Ihe day on which they Bhall give their 
votes; which day shall be the same throughout the 
Uiiiied States. 

No pers"n except a. natural born citizen, or a citizen 
of Ihe United States at the time of the adoption of this 
Coiistilution, t>haU be eligible to the omce of Presi- 
dent } neither shall any person be eligible to that office 
who shall nut have aUaiued to the age of thirty-five 
years, and been fourteen years a resident wilbia the 
United Slates. 

Id case of ihe removal of Ihe President from office, 
or of his death, resignalinn, or inability to discharge 
the powers and dui ies nf the said office, (he same shall 
devolve on the Vice President j and the Congress may 
by I^aw provide for Ihe cise of removal, death, resigna- 
tion, or inability, both of Ihe President and Vice Pre- 
sident, declaring what officer shall then act as Presi- 
dent, and such officer shall act accordingly, until the 
disability be removed, or a President shall be elecled. 

The PresidenI shall, at slated limes, receive for his 
services, a compensation, which shall neither be in- 
creased nor dimmished during the period for which he 
shall have been elected; and he shall not receive 
within that period any other emolument from the 
United Stales or any of them. 

Before he enter on Ihe execution of his office, he 
shall take Ihe following oaUi or affirmation : 

" 1 do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faith- 
fully execute the office of President of the United 
Stales, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, 
protect and defend (be CoDSIitulion of the United 
Stales.*' 

Sec. 2. The President shall be Commander-in-Chief 
of the army and navv of the United States and of the 
militia of (he several Slates, when called into the ac- 
tual service of the United Slates j he may require the 
opinion in writing, of the principal officer in each of 
the executive departmenls, upoD any subject relatine 
to the duties of their respective offices ; and he shali 
have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences 
against the United States, except in cases of impeach- 
meni. 

He shall have power, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate, to make Iroties, provided two 
thirds of the Senators preseni concur; and he shall 
nominale, and bv and with Ihe advice and consent of 
tbs Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public 
Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the Supreme Court, 
and all other officers of the United States, whose ap- 
pointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and 
which shall be eslablished by law. But the Congress 
may by law vest tlie appointment of such inferior offi- 
cers, as ihey think proper, in Ihe President alone, in 
tbe courts of law, or iathe heads of departments. 

The President shall nave power to fill up all vacan- 
dies that may happen during the recess of the Senate, 
by granting commissions which shall expire at tbe end 
of Ibeir next session. 

Sec. S. He shall, from time lo time, give to the 
Congress iaf()rm.ition of Ihe s'ate of the Union, and re- 
commend lo their consideration such measures as he 
shall judge necessary and expedient ; he may, on ex- 
traordinary occasions, convene boih Tiouses, or either 
of them, and in case of disagreement between them, 
with respect to the lime of adjournment, he may ad. 
joarn them to such time as he shall think proper^ he 



shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers ; 
he shall lake care that Ihe laws be faithfully executed, 
and shall commission all the officers of the United 
Stales. 

Sec. 4. Tbe President, Vice President, and all civil 
officers of the United States, shall be removed from 
office on impeachment for, and conwSction of, treason, 
bribery, or other high crimes and miademeanore. 

ARTICLE III. 

Sec. 1. The judicial power of Ibe United States shall 
be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such Inferior 
Courts as Ihe Congress may from time to lime ordain 
and establish. The Judges, both of the Supreme and 
Inferior Courts, shall hold their offices during good be. 
havinur, and shall,' at slated times, receive ror their 
services, a compensation, which shall not be dimia. 
ished during Iheir continuance in office. 

Sec. 2. The judicial power shall extend lo all cases, 
in law and equity, arising under this Constilulion, the 
laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which 
shall be made under their authority ; to all cases affect- 
ing Ambassadors, olher public Ministers and Con- 
suls: to all cases of Admiralty and Maritime jurisdic- 
lioD ; lo controversies to which the United Stales shall 
be a parly; lo controversies between two or more 
Slates ; between a Slate and citizens of another State ; 
between citizens of different Slates; between citizens 
of Ihe same State, claiming lands under grants of dif- 
ferent Slates ; and between a State or the citizens 
thereof, and foreign Slates, citizens or subjects. 

In ail cases affeciing Ambassadors, other public 
Ministers and Consuls, and those in which aState shall 
be a party, the Supreme Court shall have original ju- 
risdiction. In all the other cases before mentioned, 
the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, 
both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and un- 
der such regulations as the Congress shall make. 

The (rial of all crimes, except in cases of impeach- 
ment, shall be by jury ; and such trial shall be held in 
the State where the said crimes shall have been com- 
mitted ; but when not committed within any State, the 
trial shall be at such place or places as Ihe Congress 
may by law have directed. 

Sec. 3. Treason against the United Stales shall con- 
sist only in levying war against them, or in adhering 
to tbeir enemies, giving them aid and comfort. Mo 
person shall be convicted of treason unless an the tes- 
timony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on 
confession in open Court. 

The Congress shall have power to declare tbe pun- 
ishment of Jtreaeon.; but no attainder of treason shall 
work cori-uption of bloody or forfeiture, except during 
the lite of the person' attainted. 

. , ARTICLE IV. 

Sec. 1. Full faith and credit shall be ^iven in each 
Stale, to the public acts, records and judicial proceed- 
ings of every other Slate. And the Congress may, by 
general taws, prescribe the manner In which such 
acta, records and proceedings shall be proved, and the 
effect thereof. 

Sec. 2. The citizens of each Slate shall be entitled 
to all privileges and immunities of citizens in tbe 
several Slates. 

A person charged in anv State with treason, felony, 
or other crime, who shall fee from justice, and be 
found in another Slate, sha)), on demand of the execu- 
tive au(hority of the State from which he fled, be de- 
livered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdic- 
tion of Ihe crime. 

No person held lo service or labour in one State, uri'- 
der the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in 
consequence of any law or regulation therein, be dis- 
charged from such service or labour ; but shall be de- 
livered up on claim of the party to whom such service 
or labour may be due. 

Sec. 3. New Slates may be admitted by the Congress 
into this Union ; but no new Slate shall be formed or 
erected within (he jurisdiction of any olher Slate;- nor 
any State be formed by the junction of two or mora 



CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 



51 



States, or parts of States, without the consent or the 
Legislatures of the Slates concerned as well as of the 
Congress. 

Tbe Congress shall have power to disppse of and 
make all neoiful rules aod regulalioua reapectins, the 
territory or o\bSf properly belongiog to ttie tJoiled 
States ; and DOlmng in this Coostituijoa shall be so 
construed, as to prejudice any claims of the United 
Slates, or of any particular Slate. 

Sec. 4. The United States etiall guarantee to every 
Slate in this UDion, a republican form of government, 
and shall protect each of them against invasion ; and, 
on application of tbe Xregislature, or of the Executive 
(when the L^islature caoaot be convened}, against do- 
mestic violence. 

ARTICLE V. 

The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses 
shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments to 
this Constitution, or, on the application of the Lxeisr 
iatures of two thirds o( the sevenl States, shall call a 
convention far proposing amendments, which, in either 
cise, shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part 
of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures 
of three fourths of tbe several States, or by conven- 
tions io three fourths thereof, as the one or the other 
mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress: 
iYouided, That do amendment whiah may be made 
prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and 
eight, shall in any manner affect the first and fourth 
clauses in theuinthsectionof the first article; and that 
no State, without its consent, -Bhall be deprived of its 
equal sufiirage id the Senate. 

ARTICLE VL 

All debts contracted and engagements entered into 
before thA adoption of this Coostitulion, shall be as 
valid against the United Slates under this Constitution, 
as undU" the Confederation. 

This Constitution and the Lavrs of the United States 
wbtch shall he made in pursuance thereof; and all 
Treaties made, or which shall be made under the 
aathority of the United Slates shall be the Supreme 
Law of the Land: and the Judges in every State shall 
, be twund therebVi anything in the Conslilutioa or Laws 
of any Stale Io (he contrary notwithstanding. 

The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, 
and the members txf the several State Legislatures, and 
jdt Executive and Judicial officers, both of the United 
'States and of tbe several Slates, shall be bound by oath 
or afBrmatinn, to support this Constitution : but no reli- 
gious lest shall ever be required aa a qualification to 
any office or public trust under ihe United States. . ~ 
ARTICLE VII. 

Tbe ratification of the Conventions in nine States, 
shall be sofficieot for the establishment of this Consti- 
tution between Ihe States so ratifying the same. 

Done in Convention, by the unanimous consent of 
the States present, the seventeenth day of Sep- 
tember, in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven 
hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence 
of the United States of America Ihe twelflh. In 
witness whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our 

GEORGE WASHINGTON, President, 
arid Deputy from Virginia, 



AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION. 



ARTICLE I. 

Congress shall mafae no law respecting an eitablish- 
ment of religion, or prohibiting Iheiree exercise thereof; 
or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press ; or 
the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to 
petition the Government for a redress of grievances. 
ARTICLE IL 

A well regulated Militia heing necessary to tbe secu- 
rity of a free State, the right of the people to keep and 
bear arms, shall not b8 infringed. 



ARTICLE m. 

No soldie'r shall, in time of peace, he quartered in 
any house without the consent of Ihe owner, nor in time 
of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by Law. 
ARTICLE IV. 

The right of the people to be secure in their persons, 
houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable searche5 
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrantsshdil 
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oalh or 
ai&rmation, and particularly describme the place to be 
searched, and Ihe persons or things to Be seized. 

ARTICLE V. 

No person shall be held to answer for a capilal or 
otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or 
indictment of a grand jury, except in cases arising in 
the land or naval forces, or in the militia when in 
actual service in time of war or public danger; nor 
shall any person be subject for Ihe same offence, lo be 
twice put injeo) ardy of lifeor limb; nor shall be com- 
pelled in any criminal case lo be a witness against him- 
self, nor be deprived of life, liberty or property, without 
due process of law; nor shall private property be taken 
for public use, without just competiaation. 
ARTICLE VL 

In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enipy 
Ihe right to a speedy and public trial, by an imparfial 
jury of the state and district wherein tne crime shall 
have been committed, which district shall have been 
previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of 
the nature and cause of the accusation ; lo be confronted 
with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory 
process for obtaining witnesses in his favour, and to have 
Ihe assistance of counsel for liiit defence. 
ARTICLE VIL 

In suits at common law, where tlie value in conlro. 
versy shall exceed twenty dollars, Ihe rieht of trial by 
jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall 
be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United 
States, than according lo Ihe rules of the common law. 
ARTICLE VIIL 

Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive 
fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments in- 
flicted. 

ARTICLE IX. 

The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights, 
shall not he construed to deny or disparage others re- 
tained by the people. 

ARTIQLE X. 

The powers not delegated to the United Slates by Ihe 
Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are re- 
served to the States respectively, or to the people. 
ARTICLE XI. 

The judicial power of the United Stales shall not be 
conslrued lo extend to any suit in law or equity, com- 
menced or prosecuted against one of tbe United States 
by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of 
any foreign State. 

ARTICLE XH. 

The Electors shall meet in their respeclive States 
and vote, by ballot, for l^resident and Vice President, 
one of whom, at least, shall not be an iohabiiant of the 
same Slate with themselves ; they shall name in their 
ballots the person voted for as President, and in distioct 
ballots the person voted for as Vice President, and they 
shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as Pre- 
sident, and of all persons voli;d for as Vice President, 
and of the number of votes for each, which lists they 
shall sign and cerlify, and Iransmit, sealed, to the seat 
of the Government of ihe United States, directed to the 
President of the Senate; the President of the Senate 
shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Repre- 
sentatives, open all the certificateg, and tbe votes shall 
then be counted ; the person having the greatest number 
of votes for President shall be tbe President, if such 
number be a majority of the whole number of Electors 



52 



POISON ANTIDOTES— STATISTICS. 



appointed, and if no peraon bave such majority, then 
from Ihe persons having the highciit numbers not ex- 
ceeding three, on the fist of those voted for as Presi- 
dent, the House of Representatives shall choose imme- 
diately, by ballot, the President; hut in choosing Ihe 
FresidenI, the votes shall be taken by 8lates, the repre- 
senlalioD from each State having one vote j a quorum 
for this piit-pose shall consist of a member or members 
from two-thirds of the States, and a majority of all the 
States shall be necessai-y to a choice. And if the Hnuse 
of Representatives shall not choose a President when- 
ever the right of choice shall devolve upon Ihem, be- 
fore the fourth day of March next following, then Ihe 
Vice Freaident shall act as President, as in ihe case of 
the death or other Constitutional disability of tlie Pres- 
ident, The person having Ihe greatest number of votes 
aa Vice President, shall be the Vice President, if such 
number be a majority of the whole number of Electors 



appointed ; and if no person have a majority, then fVom 
the two highest numbers on the list, the Senate shall 
choose the Vice President; a quorum forttie purpose 
shall consist of two-thirds of the whole namber of 
Senators; and a majority of the whole number shall 
be necessary lo a choice. Rut no person constihition- 
ally ineligible to the office of President ^ahal I be eliei- 
ble to that of Vice President of the United Statei, 
ARTICLE XIII. 
If any citizen of the United States shall accept, 
claim, receive, or retain any title of nobility or honour, 
or Khali without the consent of Congress, accept and 
retain any present, pension, ofBce or emolument of any 
kind whatever, from any Emperor, King, Prince, or 
foreign power, such person shall cease to be a citizen 
of the united States, and shall be incapable of holding 
any office of trust or profit under tbem, or either of 
Ihem. 



POISON ANTIDOTES. 



For Oil of Vitriol or Aqua-Fortis give 
large doses magnesia and water, or equal 
parts soft soap and water. 

For Oxalic Acid give magnesia, or chalk 
and water. 

For Tartar Emetic cive Peruvian bark 
and water, or a strong decoction of Ufa un- 
til the bark can be had. 

For Saltpetre give an emetic of mustard 
and watet- ; afterwards mucilages and small 
doses of laudanum. 

For Opium or Laudanum give an emetic 
of mustard, and use constant motion, and 
if possible the stomach pump. 

For Lunar Caustic give common salt. 

Fur Corrosive Sublimate give the whites 
of eggs mixed with water, until free vomit- 
ing takes place. 

For Arsenic doses of Magnesia are good, 
but freshly prepared Hydrated per Oxide of 
Iron is better. 

Frost Bitten. — Spirits of Turpentine ap- 
plied at once is a cure for freezing. 

Insects taken into the stomach ma^ gen- 
erally be destroyed by a small quantity of 



vinegar, to which salt may be added. For 
insects that may get into the ear, use a little 
Ballad oil. 

Bums, ^Scalds or Freezing are cured by 
"Sovereign Water," an excellent remedy, 
if rightly applied. Made by 4 grains White 
vitriol, 1 grain Blue vitriol, i grain camphor, 
half grain saffron, mixed witnS quarts Bolt 
water. Wrap the sores with linen rags and 
keep constantly wet. 

An Ointment made of lime water and 
sweet oil is a soothing excellent remedy for 
burns, scalds, &:c. Slake lime in water, let 
it settle and pour it off clear, and mix about 
equal portions of this water and sweet oiL 
See pages SO and 34. 

Cure for a Burn.—Whea.\ flour and cold 
water mixed to the consistency of soft paste, 
is an almost instantaneous cure for a burn, 
whether large or email. Kenew before the 
first gets so dry as to stick. 

Slippery Elm bark powdered makes an 
excellent nealing ptiultice for burns, sores, 
&c.. boiled with milk and about one-third 
bread. 



AMOUNT OF APPROPKIATIOWS, 

Made at the 2d Seigion of the 26th Congi-ess. 

Partial support of government, Congress, ^ 412,000 

For civil and diplomatic expenses, . . - 8,030,005 

Fnr the navy, 5,926,338 

For the army, 5,441,916 

For fortificalionB, 485,500 

Forihe Military Academy, 160,522 

For Pensions, 1,144,155 

For the Indian Department, 875,260 

For delegation of Western Seminoles, . - 15,000 
For destitute Eicka poos, removal of Swan 

Creek and Black River Indians, - - - 22,000 
For survey of N. E. Roundary, - . . - 76,000 
For lunatics in the District of Columbia, - 3,000 
For refunding duties on French ship Alex- 
andre, 1,050 

For Avery, Seltmarsh & Co., 9,799 

For private claims, (not pensions) amounts 

specified, 4,645 

^2,606,193 

COMPARATIVE AGRICULTURAL STA- 
TISTICS. 
According to the returns of the Marshals, by whom 
Ifae late census was taken, the Stale of New fork is 
behind Pennsylvania in the production of wheat to the 



amount of about 2,000^000 bushels annually ; while it 
excels Pennsylvania in the production of rye over 
3,000,000 bushels, of Indian corn 2,500,000 bushels, of 
oatB over 2,000,000 bushels, of buckwheat 300,000 
bushels, of barley 2,300,000 bushels, of potatoes 
21,000,000 bushels, wool nearly 1,000,000 pounds, hay 
nearly 2,000,000 Ion!:, sugar over 8,000,000 pounds, and 
of products of the dairy over 8,000,000 dollars. In the 
produclion of wheat, Ohio exceeds Pennsylvania about 
3.000,000 bushels, white Virginia is but about 1,500,000 
hushels behind New York in that article. In Indian 
corn, Tennessee lakes Ihe lead of all the Slates, pro- 
ducing 42,500,000 millions of bushels yearly, North 
Carolina 34,600,000 bushels, Virginia about 34,000,000 
bushels, Illinois 28,000,000, Michigan 32,000,000, Ala- 
bama J8,000,000, Missouri 15,000,000, Pennsylvania 
13,500,000, and New York lO.OOOjOOO. Of neat cat- 
tle. New York possesses 2,642,438, Pennsylvania 14G,- 
418, Ohio 1,008,313. Of sheep New York has 5,381,- 
225, Pennsylvania 3,396,431, Ohio 1,964,957, Vermont 
1,393,420, Virginia 1,280,736. In the products of the 
orchard, New York and VerjnonI lead the other slates 
nearly Iwo to one ; the former be'ine to the amount of 
1,732,357 dolhrs, tbe latter 1,109.387 dollars. In col- 
ton, Mississippi bears the palm, producing yearly 
289,838,818 pounds, Alabama 240,379,669 pounds, 
South Carolina 148,907,880 pounds, Georgia 1S4,SS,- 
755 pounds, Louisiana 87,640,185 pounas, Virsinia 
10j767,451 pounds. 
For detaib, see pages 54 and 55. 



MONEYS, WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 53 

COMMERCIAL WEIGHTS, 

Compared with tht mo$t fraptented portt mxordins to the Dutch Standard Grairu by which oH 
■toeighta an regulated. 



lOO lbs. in 



United States or 

ZiOndon < 

Amsterdam 

Cadiz 

Hamburg 

Havre 

Leghorn 

Petersburg 

Paris 



^1 



100 
108 2-3 
101 1-2 

106 9-3 
116 2-3 

74 4-5 
90 

107 3-4 



913-4 
100 

93 1-3 

98 
107 

68 3-4 

84 4-5 



98 2-3 93 3-5 
107 1-6 102 



100 
105 
114 2-3 



95 
100 
109 1-6 



73 2-3 70 
88 2-3 84 1-3 
106 1-4101 



85 5-0 
931-2 
87 1-6 
912-3 
100 
641-5 
771-4 
921- 



133 2-3 110 5-6 
145 1-2 120 3-4 
135 3-4'll2 1-2 
142 1-2 118 1-2 
155 2-3 1 129 1-6 
100 83 

120 i-4;ioo- 

144 



1 119 3- 



92 4-5 
100 4-5 
94 1-7 
98 3-4 
108 
691-3 
831-2 
100 



FOREIGN MONEYS, 

WITH THEIR VALUES, AS ESTIMATED AT THE CUSTOM-HOUSE BY LAW. 



JOdtars. 
AiutCayeB^81-4IivTe8aree(]ualfo • - • 1.00 
Blue OP current Dollar of Senmark, accord- 
ing to tfae ezcbaoge of London. 
Cayennne, 8 Uvlva 6 aols of," are equal to • - 1.00 

Duct of Naples 80 

Francof ]^Tance -• - - - 18 3-4 

FloriU of Trieste ••.48 

Gefloa,'Gl-Slivresare tairenaa l.OD 

0iudaloupe, 8 livtes and 5 sola • • - - - 1.00 

Guilder ojf Antwerp - - • .40 

-" Crefelt .40 

" Frantcfort, and otbera of tbe 24 

florin rate .40 

" HoUand 40 

*' Nurembur? - 40 

■ " St. Gall, 0.40 36-100 

" Trieste 48 

. " , United Netherlands 40 

Livre of France 18 1-2 

" Geneva • - ' .29 

" Genoa, 6 1-3 livres 1.00 

" Lodioni, 6 1.2 livrea 1.00 

Louis d^r BizdoIIar - 77 

Marc BanooDf Hamburg • 331-3 

Milrea of Brazil, accordiogto lateof ezcbanze. 

Miijea of Madeira 1.00 

" ForlDgal .-. 1.24 

Ounce of Sicily '• 2.46 



DcSilri. 

Fezza of Legbom, 0.90 76-100 

FiastT« of Turkey, according to rate of ezcbaoge 
in London. 

Found Sterliog of England, Scotland, and Ire- 
land .' 4.80 

Found Sterling of Antigua - - - 2.22 

" Barbadoes ---..-. 3.Z0 

" Bermuda •.•-... 3,00 

« Halifax 4.00 

" Jamaica -••■--•• 3,00 
« New Frovidence 2.50 

Rial Flate of Spain 10 

Velon of Spain 05 

Riz-dollar of Bremen - -••.77 

" Denmark --•••-... l.oo 

" Berlin, current, 0.63 29-100 

" Hamburg ...-.--.. 1,00 

■■ Frussia, 0.6829-100 

" Sazony .-.•-•....,69 

*' Sweden 1.00 

Ruble of Russia, according to tbe ezcbangB be- 
tween LondOD and St. Petersburg. 

Rupee of Bnnibay, Calcutta, and Sicca, each • • .50 

Rupee of Madras, 108=100 Sicca rupees. 

Star Pagoda of India - . • . • 1.84 

St Bartbolomews, Ss. 3d. •••.•• -.1.00 

St. Sitts, 9s. Od I.OO 

Tale of China . . • • 1.48 



CLOTH MEASURE. 



Length of 
a single 
measure 

tn Ragliah 
iDcbea. 



No. or 
each equal 
to 100 
English 
yards. 



LeDgth of 
a single 
measute 

in English 
inohes. 



Amsterdam, • 
Batavia - • 
Bengal - - 
Bremen - • 
Cbioa - - . 
Constantinople 
Copenbagep- 
Eogland. • • 

Florence - - 
Franca • - 

Hambutg - 



Ell 

£11 

Cubit 

Ell 

Covid 

Long Fie 

Ell 

Yard 

Ell 

Biaccio 

Aune 

Metre 

£11 



27.07 
27.00 
18.00 
22.76 
14.62 
27,90 
24.71 
36.00 
45.00 
22,98 
46.85 
39,37 
22,58 



132.988 
133.333 
200.000 
158.172 
246.238 
129.032 
145.690 
100.000 
80.000 
156.657 
76.841 
91.445 
159.433 



Legtiom - - 
Malta - - - 
Naples • - 
Netherlands - 
Frussia - - 
Rio do Janeiro 
Rotterdam - 



Braccio 

Cauua 

Ciuna 

£11 

£11 

Vara 

£11 

Arsbean 

Pic 

Vara 

£11 

Silk Braccio 

SilkEU 



81.90 
83,00 
39.37 
26.25 
43.50 
2750 
23,00 
27.00 
33,38 
23.36 
24.81 



1S6.6S7 
43.956 
43.273 
91,440 
137.142 
82,768 
132.352 
128.571 
133.333 
107.849 
154.109 
145.102 
117.416 



54 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS FOR 1840. 



02 




f^ 




H 




<l 




Eh 


• 

o 


I/J 


•* 




00 


(=) 


M 


W 


rt 


Eh 


«! 


)^^ 


H 


^ >H 


P 


H 




Eh 


Eh 


[x. 




o 


O 


1= 




12; 


hH 


w 


^ 


u 


w 


w 


Eh 
< 


X 


Eh 


O 


W 


H 




O 
^ 



Pi o 

Eh O 

^< 
O ^ 

Pi 
o 
< 



'toom fo spunOff 



'UMa uvipuj fo stsiims 



•fv^myonq fo si3ysn£[ 



•afu fo sidysnq fa •oj/' 



'SJVO fo $j3t{snq fo 'OH 



•fi9Hvq fo spymq fo '0£i 



•jvi^,{n fo spitsTiq fo 'o/f 



•fosxnii atifoa — fujfnOfi 



•auiois fo jaquinj^ 



•drniie fo joqvin^ 



•^}p}3 }V9U fo jaquin^ 



•sairmi put) swMti fo -o^ 



giSsiSSs^lSI ill iSISlii I ig 






R^i 



o> CO 53 — w -H r- m 

Tf o> (c ~ >fl o >M ej 



to TT U) O CQ ^ m O). A Ol 00 CO 






— o«to-^ignjo^ggo 



o — w Si^S 



^1 



OEDOscgeJc^eo-— r-oioin 

tc'oo'cf oToTtd'cio (o'eg'r-l'oi t~" 

•-• M 00 >-" ^t~ o o o) ur — 



III 



-H — 09 CO 









g-ilEg§ s pg 









eSSSSRSS 8 

(N ri ^ m o d m e* 



2 3fsf 



•- n eoo ■««: 









oB^SSgjSgn^ 






III 



rfrt'ofo'tp'-Jcirtcrorerc 

3cni>-(n5eo — cncocSoF 



ISi 



CO o ^ of cgrt t* -* 



IS 






^lliisl 



!1 



sssassgisssa 



fs's" 



congjr-tooo 






:rfil 



M 




AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS TOR 1840. 



55 



fampoJdjattiuni/Q mpy^ 



< 

» 

o 
HO 

02 E-" 
EhO 

-5H 






*3pfnu 9ut(n id monog 









TpDtu io.?n« /o tpunocf 



ilf^sWrfl III' iWS^a'f S s 



t^iigll^iiil III iii^as 

o* -r iffiffentn t^r~ (D"-r ^2 ^^ 



•a 



^ -H ' A 









sis "^i §'"s ^ai as- sis 






•■WW903 VH /« sptino^ 



•uoijw /o tpunoi fa 'ojt 



■wujb wpuJiodfo 'OAT 



•oxtaqof fa rpunadfo 'ojj 



•xoif pteo dmsn p ntox 



5s ssssggp a 






fiiif s f 



ffi'e" 






•Hotf fa naj fa jaqtimji 



'aorvtoSfa naqanqfa 'ojf 






lg 



■ ri|i«l|i4:il 






3 









iS§iS§sliiis ill iiisiH s |t 
_-ttf--srf'!jB~sf®~==r!!r a"of!f sa" 3=i? e-. 









1 



5G 



STATISTICAL TABLES. 



TABLES OF POPULATION. 



STATES 
AND TEREITOHIESi 



POPDLiTION AT DIFFERENT PERIODS. 
1700, laoO. 1810. , 1620. , 18S0. 



Maine 

New Hampshire . - - - 
Vermobt ...._-.-- 

Massactiuaelts . - - - - 

Rbodfl Islacd ------ 

Coenecticut ------ 

iCew York - - 

New Jersey ------ 

FeDQsylvaaia ------ 

Delaware -------- 

Maryland -------- 

Virginia- -------- 

Norlh Carolina - - - - 

South Carolina 

Georgia --------- 

Alabama -------- 

Mississippi • - 

Louisiana 

Tennessee ------- 

Kentucky - - 

Ohio 

Indiana 

Illinois --------- 

Missouri 

Michigan -------- 

Arkansas - - 

Florida Territory - - • 
Missouri Territory - ■ 
District of Columbia • 



275 
240 
430 
S89 
210 
240 
365 
272 
640 
500 
385 



31,960 
9,280 
10,203 
7,800 
1,363 
4,770 
4ti,20O 
6.000 

'43,960 
2,063 
10,629 
64,000 
43,802 
30,080 
58,200 
50,875 
45,375 
48,000 
44,720 
39,015 
38,850 
34,8P0 
59,130 
60,384 
177,750 
121,000 
67,750 



96,540 
141,885 

85,539 
378,787 

68,825 
237,946 
340,120 
184,139 
434,373 

59,094 
319,728 
747,610 
393,751 
240,073 

82,548 



35,691 
73,677 
3,000 



151,719 
183,858 
154,465 
422,845 

69,122 
251,002 
586,030 
211,149 
602,548 

64,273 
349,692 
886,149 
478,103 
345,591 



45,365 

4,B75 
215 



228,705 
214,460 
217,895 
472,040 

76,931 
261,912 
959,019 
245,562 
810,091 

72,674 
380,546 
974,622 
555,500 
415, U5 
252,433 

31,602 
76,556 
261,727 
406,511 
230,760 
24,520 
12,282 
19,783 
4,762 



14,093 24,023 



244,161 

235,764 

623,287 

83,059 

275,248 

1,372,812 

277,575 

1,049,458 

72,749 

407,350 

1,065,366 

638,829 

502,741 

340,989 

127,901 

75,449 

153,407 

422,813 

664,317 

581,434 

147,178 

65,211 



610,014 
97,210 
297,711 

1,913,508 
320,779 

l,347,e72 
"76,739 
446,913 

1,211,272 
738,470 
581,458 
516,567 
308,9^ 
136,806 
215,675 
684,822 
688,844 
937,679 
341,38! 
157,575 
140,074 
31,260 
30,383 
34,723 



CENSUS OF 1840. 



STATES AND 
TERRITORES. 



Maine, 

New Hampshire, . 
Massachusetts, • ■ 
Connecticut, - - ■ 
Rhode Island, - • 
Vermont, - - • . 
New York, - - ■ 
New Jeneyj - - ■ 
Fennsylvama - ' 
Delaware, - '- - . 
Maryland, - - - 
Virginia, - . - ■ 
North Carolina, - 
South Carolina, - 
Georgia, - - - 
Alabama, - - - 
Mississippi, • - 
Louisiana, - - - 
Tennessee, - - 
Kentucky, - - - 

Ohio 

Indiana, - - - 
IllinoiSj . - • - 
Missouri, - - - 
Arkansas, - - - 
Micbigaii,- - - 
Florida, - - - , 
Wisconsin - - 
Iowa - - - - 
Dist. of Columbia ' 



Wlale 


Ff&e CO- 


persons. 


pertons. 


500,443 


1,353 


283,951 




728,932 


8,534 


301,858 


6,111 


105,593 


3,239 


291 130 


718 


2,382,571 


60,261 


350,724 


20,970 


1,619,115 


60,571 


58,581 




431,441 


52,000 


735,812 


48,425 


484,172 


22,752 


259,002 


8,279 


363303 


2,353 


288,947 


1,833 


178,967 


1.367 


1 12,149 


22,197 


629,492 


5,407 


691,638 


7,302 


1,498,593 


17,102 


676,296 


7,018 


423,330 


3,120 


277,357 


1,433 


77,815 




211,001 


703 


8,147 


521 


30,506 


178 


42,864 




30657 


8,361 



31 
2,613 
105,000 
447,207 
246,186 
327,158 
253,508 
188,664 
195,765 
115,292 
188,168 
183,040 



184 

48,941 

7,000 

1 

6,334 



Slaves in 1830, 2,000,990— ID 1840, 2,369,953. Free 
coloured in 1840, 371,606. 



1 POPULATION OF OUR CITIES 
AND VILLAGES. 



New Tork - 
Fbiladelpbia 
Baltimore - 
Boston - • 
Brooklyn - 
Cincinnati - 
St. Louis • 
Washington 
Fittsburg - 
Wilmington, Del 
Middletoa - - 
Bridgeport - - 
Norwich • - 
New London -, 
New Haven - 
Hartford - - 
New Orleans - 
Savannah - - 
Newburyport - 
Wilmington, N. 
Natchez . - - 
Newport • - 
Buffalo . - - 
Portland, - - 
Gardiner . - 
Canandaigua - 
Troy - . - - 
Dover, N. H. - 
Providence . - 

Portsmouth, N. H. 
Charleston • 



101,378 

84,401 

36,283 

46,382 

24,585 

22,777 

21,236 

8,367 

7,210 

4,370 

7,239 

6,528 

14,390 

12,793 

102,191 

11,214 

7,161 

4,268 

4,826 

8,321 

18,356 

15,218 

6,044 

5,653 

19,372 

6,438 

22,042 

7,884 
29,253 



61,392 
12,903 



18,827 
12,542 



2,800 
6,179 
4,356 

10,678 
9,789 

60,103 



2,700 
2,790 
8,010 
6,321 

12,601 
3,709 
5,162 

11,405 
5,449 

16,832 

8,082 
30,289 



109,645 

70,135 

21,753 

A019 

24,630 

21,351 

18,783 

3,950 

8,754 

1,704 

313 

1,770 

2,060 

1,172 

3,712 

3,004 

52,088 

3,911 

773 



12,035 
2,617 



6,210 

Decrease. 

198 



THE .POPULATION IN 
1790 was 3,729,326 1 1820 was 9,638,166 
1800 " 6,309,753 1830 " 12,866,407 

1810 " 7,239,903 1840 " 17,141,876 



C O OKERY, 



57 



COOKERY. 



THE GOLDEN RULE. 

It may be laid down as a fundamental 
principle and one that cannot be too 
constantly kept in mind, that the more 
compounded any kind of food is, the 
more difficult it will be of digestion ; the 
more corrupt the juices which are pre- 
pared from it, and therefore the more 
positively injurious to the digestive or 
gans, to the blood, and to the health. 



NUTRIMENT. 

Animal Ibod has more nutriment than v^etatilL 

when Mtimated by balk, but far less when compared 

by weight, the true crilerion, as the following cnemi- 

cil analysis correctly shows : 

IpO lbs. Wheat contain 85 lbs. nutriment. 
Do. Rica "90 " 

Do. Rye " 80 " 

Do. Barley " 83 " 

Do. Beans " 89 to 92 •' 
Do. Feas " 93 <• 

Do.' Meat.av. '• S5 " 

Do. Potatoes « 25 « 

Beets, carrots, greens, turnips, &c. contain a much 
BDoaller proporliOD. 

o - 
By RooitiTtg beef loses 22 per cent, of its weight, 
mutton 24, lamb 22, gooiie 19, lurlcey 20, duck 27, 
chickens 14. 

Sy Sailins beef loses 15 per cent, of its weight, 
mutton 10, turkey 16, cbickeu 13, ham 6, 



MEATS. 

All meat should be cooked till it is separated from 
the blood, and the fibres become soft and easy of diges- 
tion. 

Meat should be eaten sparingly by children, and by 
thrwe who take but little exercise, and should be en- 
tirely abstained from when there is any symptom of 
excited action or fever. 

BoOxng i> tbe most economical mode of cooking 
meat, if the liquid is used as II should be for soup or 
broth. The slower njeat is boiled the more teoder It 
is. Ten pounds should boil or simmer about three 
boars, in cold weather longer ; allowing water enough 
to cover the meat well. If il is very salt, soak it tor 
half an hour in lukewarm water. 

Sakvns is well for legs, loins, &c., but bad for lean 
thio pieces which shrivel away. 

Baaiting is most wasteful, though some pieces seem 
best adapted for this mode. Wash th^meat well, dry 
with a clean clolh, cover the far with pieces of white 
paper lied with thread until half an hour before taking 
up. Turn oflen. Pour off the fint dripping, which 
being liquid bt is unhnlthy, and make gravy by add- 
ing flour and water. Twenly minutes to each pound 
of meat is the rule for roasting. 

Stew Betf, ten pounds in five quarts wafer, with 
two or three onions and some cloves, a few carrots cut 
in quarters, herbs, and such other seasoning as you 
like. Strain the gravy and add a little flour aim butler. 

Pork is not a healthy food, though well enough for 
those who labour hard. It should never be eat unless i 
tboroDgbly cooked. 

Mutton is the bealtfaieat coeat tbat is eaten. 



Veta is a deli(6le meat, hut to be easy of dieeslioo 
must be done tender. The knuckle stewed with herbs 
ror about three hours is an excellent dish. 

Yotms Turkeys may be known by their soft bills 
and toes. Young eeeBC by fat white breast, yellow feet, 
and web of the foot thin and tender. 

Stuffing or dressing for fowls is made with grated 
bread crumbs, minced suet or hnfler, sweet marjorum 
or thyme, nulmeg or other spice, pepper, salt, and 
beaten egg. Fme cut or grated ham may be added, 
and potatoes. A good stuffing is made of potatoes 
alone with suitable sensoning. 

Soiled TYtrftcw.— Stuffing of bread, panley, lemon 
peel, oysters, and an onion. Season with salt, pepper, 
nulmeg, and one egg mixed with a bit of butter : lasleD 
up the skm over the crop, put Ihe turkey iu cold wa- 
ter, boil slowly, skim well, and let it simmer for two 
hours— longer if very large. Chop the liver, 4c for 
the gravy. ' 

Fowls and chickens may be done thesame way, only 
in less time. Boil till tender. Seasoning shodd be 
according to (aste. 

friawsee,— Wash and cut the chidteo into joinli, 
acild and take off the skin, slew for an hour with a 
sliced-onion, parsley, lemon peel, salt and pepper — or 
season to suit yourself. Add pint of water and bit of 
butter, and just before serving up add the yolk of two 
eggs beaten up with a tea cup of cream, slirring it in 
gradually. 

In drawing poultry be careful not to break the gall. 

Clackxm Baked in iZiee.— Cut into joints, season, lay 
it iu a dish lined with ham or bacon, add minced 
onion, a pint of water, and fill up with boiled rice, 
pressed down as much as the dish will hold. Cover 
with a crust of flour, and bake one hour in a slow 
oven. 

Gaese, like pork, should never be brought to Ihe ta- 
ble unless thoroughly cooked. 



SOUPS. 

Soups are positively injurious to weak stomachs, and 
to Dyspeptics. The experiments of Dr. Beaumont, 
with gastric juice, prove soups to be the most injurious 
and indigestible food that is taken into the stomach— 
the reason being that before the process of digeHlion 
can go on the water must be separated from the nour- 
ishment, and hence double du^ is imposed on the di- 
gestive powers. Soups occasionally eaten, and for 
healthy stomachs may be well enough. For children 
snups do well, with sufficient bread, rice and vegeta- 
bles in the liquid. 

5ave the liquor in which all meats are boiled, ex- 
cept smoked meat, for soup or gravy, as it contains 
much of the essence of the meat. 

M(H^ TurtU Soup n made of calves head, boiled an 
hour gently iu 4 quarts water well skimmed. Take 
it out, cut the meat in pieces an inch .square. Slice 
and fry in butler 2 lbs. leg of beef and 2 lbs. of veal — 
slice 2 onions, and add all to the liquor, witb the bones 
also ; then 2 onions, 2 ounces green sage, some parsley, 
tea'^poon ground allspice, 2 do. black pepper, salt, 
lemon peel : stew gently for five hours ; strain, ana 
when cold take off the fat. Fart Ihe liquor and meat 
from the head, add Madeira or Claret if you choosey 
mix a spoonful of flour and a cup of butter with a lit- 
tle of the broth, and stir il in. Then slew an hour till 
meat is tender, when done add tea-spoon Cayenne, the 
yolks of 12 e^s boiled hard, and 12 force meat balls, 
if liked. 

CoZuej feet make a good soup in imitation of the 
above ; boiling four in two quarts water ; adding >Dch 
of Ihe other ingredients as you choose. 

Vegttdbl& 5ouj>.— 13 onions, 6 turnips, 3 celery, 4 



58 



COOKERY. 



carrots, 2 ounces butter ; slew gently till sofi ; then 
add 4 quarts sexsoned ^ravy snup, made of roast beef 
bones, stew 4 or 5 hours, and skim. * 

Ric& Souj?.— Boil acrag end of neck venl in 4 quirts 
water, with I lb. lean ham, ekim well and season, af- 
ter boilin; down one-half strain it, add 1 lb, rice 
which boil till tender. 

'Souf for Invalids.— CmX small 1 lb. mutton or beef, 
Blew gently in 2 quarts water, skim well, when re- 
duced to a pint add salt, and take tea cup full at a 
time 

PUDDIKG-S. 

Ajyple Pudding-.— Put in^ deep pan or dish a layer 
of apples, pared and cut up, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, then apples again nnd bread alternately until 
the dish is full, adding sugar, and interspersing with 
pieces of butter, and reasoning with spice. Bake at>out 
an hnur. Good with cream or without. 

iitce Pudding, — 6 ounces rice boiled in 1 quart 
milk till lender, stirring it often, add tea-cup sugar, 
half cup butter, 3 eggs well beat, aeason and stir> till 
quite Gmooth. Bake in buttered dish about ah hour. 
Add an egg more and I pint milk, if you wish It like 
cuslard. 

Bail the above if preferred, adding fruit to suit 
taste, and serve with bulter and sugar. 

Sweet Potatoa. — Boil and mash them smooth, to 2 
cups full add 1 cup sugar, 1 of butler, 5 eggs, 1 nut- 
meg, lemon rind, and bake with under crust. 

Plain Bread Pudding-.— Pour ciuart boiling milk 
on 4 oz. bread crumhs, cover till cold, then add 3 beat 
eggs, tea-cup sugar, lemon peel, cinnamoD, bake in 
buttered dish, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Custard Pudding. — 1 table-spoon flour, 1 pint 
cream or new milk, 3 eggs, rose water, ounce butter, 
loaf sugar and nutmeg, ana bake in buttered dish halt 
an hour. 

Damson Pudding-.— Make a batter of 3 eggs, piot 
milk, 4 large spoons flour, 4 do, sugar, stone a pint of 
damsons, mix in batter, and boil hour and half.' 

Pium Puddi7ig-,~Chop half pound suet, stone half 
pound raisins, wash half pound currants^ 4 ounces each 
of bread and flour, 4 eggs well beat, a little cinnamon, 
mace and nutmeg, spoonful bait, 4 ounces sugar, an 
ounce each of citron and candied lemon. Beat egg 
and spiciis well together, then add milk and other in- 
gredients by degrees, flour a fiue linen cloth, pour in 
the baiter, and in tieing allow room to swell. Boil in 
six quarts water 6 or 7 hours, filling up with hot water 
as it boils away. Mix an hour or two before cooking. 

"BREAD- 
Zread making is an art, the importance of which 
is too frequently overlooked or underrated. Heavy, 
sour, hard bread should never be tolerated, because 
good bread is more palatable, more healttiy, and it 
should be borne in tnind, is really much leas expensive. 
There is great saving in baking bread at home, and (his 
saving is greatest when flour is cheapest. 

Good flour and good yeast are requisites, but the 
goodness of the bread depends much on Ihe kneading : 
the more the dough is turned and pressed and worked 
the lighter and better the bread will be. 

Proportions.— 2 gallons flour, half pint slrong fresh 
yeast, if home-made add more. 

The Process.— Make a holo in the flour, in which 
pour the yeast mixed with half a pint warm water. 
Stir in the flour round Ihe edge of this liquid with a 
spoon to form a thin hatter. After stirring it well for 
two minutes, sprinkle a handful of flour over the top 
of this batter, lay a warm cloth over it, and set it to 
rise in a warm place. When it rises so as to crack on 
the top add four spoonfuls fine salt, and begin to form 
the mass into dough, pouring as much soft, lukewarm 
water as is necessary to make the flour mix with the 
batter. When the flour and batter are thoroughly 
mixed, knead and work the whole till it is light and 
Btifl*. Roll into 'a lump, sprinkle dry flour over it, 



cover and put in a warm place when in half an hour 
it will rise enough for baking, 

Tlic quality depends mucn on the time of pulling 
the dough in the oven. Dough readily runs inlo three 
stages of fermentation. II should be put in the oven 
during the first or saaharine, when if sufficiently 
baked it will be sweet and wholesome. It afterwards 
becomes sour and heavy. If put in too soon, it will be 
light and as tasteless as saw dust 

Good bread ia marked by fine pores and a sort of 
net work of uniform appearance. 

Keep bread wrapped in a coarse towel, and where it 
will not dry up, or in a tight box. 

If sour, from being mixed over night, melt a tea- 
spoon of pearl ash in a little milk-warm waler, sprin- 
kle it over the dough, and in half ao hour knead it 
again. 
Frozen dough is spoiled. 

Indian is a good addition to wheat, and requires 
more water, or make mush of it and then mix in. 

The bittemess of yeast may be remedied by putting 
in a little charcoal and then straining it. 

Br/B and Indian Bread.~-M.ix 2 quarts of each wilh 
3 pints boiling milk, table-spoon salt, and stir well. 
Let it stand till lukewarm, (hen slir in half pint good 
yeast. Knead to a stiff dough and put to rise near the 
fire. When the top is cracked over, make inlo two 
loaves and bake moderate two and half hours. 

Common Feo*(.— Boil large handful hops in two 
quarts water 20 minutes. Strain and pour ihe liquid 
inlo 3 pints flour, Slir in half pint slrong yeast. Its 
strength is increased by 6 tea-spoons brown sugar or 6 
large spoons molasses. Cork the bottles loose till next 
day, and then tight. 

If tumir^ sour put tea-spoon pearl ash in eacb 
bottle, 

AnoVter.—'BoW. peel and mash mealy potatoes, 
which veduce willi water or ale thin as common yeast. 
To every pound add 2 ounces coarse sugar, and when 
juat vvarm stir in two spoons of yeast. Keep warm 
till fermentation is over and in M hours fit for use. 
Let sponge eight hours before baking, 

CAKES, 

Should be.used sparingly. 

In making cakes dry the flour before a fire, sift and 
weigh it. Wash and dry currants, stone raisins, pound 
sugar, roll it fine and sift. Dry spices first, then pound 
and sift. Four hot water over almonds to remove the 
skin, then throw them in cold water. Pare lemon and 
orange peel, and then pound wilh a little sa^r. Wash 
butler in cold water. The yolk and white of eggs 
should be separated and beaten the last thing. 

Sponge Cake. — 1 lb. pulverized loaf sugar, 9 ^ga, 
12 ounces flour. Beat eggs half an hour, then beat eggs 
and sugar together to a foam. Stir in the flour lighlly, 
add a lillle nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake half an hour 
in tins buttered and filled only half full. If a single 
cake, bake an hour, A hoi oven, but not so hot as to 
scorch, 

Another. — 1 lb, flour, three quarters pound pulver- 
ized loaf auMr, 7 eggs, grated peel and juice of a 
lemon, a table-spoon rose waler. Beat all an hour, 
butter a tin, line it with paper also buttered, sift sugar 
over top, and bake an hour. 

Seed Cdke.~-l lb. flour, 12 oz. fine sugar well beat 
with 7 eggs, 1 oz. pounded cartway seeds, two large 
spoons sour cream and tea-spoon pearl ash. Bake if 
one cake an hour, in small tins 15 minutes. 

Macaroons. — Beat the while of 8 eggs to froth, add 
2 lbs. fine loaf sugar, 1 lb. blanched almonds pounded 
to paste, with rose water. Beat all to thick paste. 
Place drops on a buttered tin far enough apart to 
spread. Bake 10 minutes in moderate oven. 

Rice batter CoftM.— Boil rice soft and thin it vrilh 
quart milk, add 3 eggs, salt, and sweeten or not as pre- 
ferred. Bake same as buckwheat cakes or in tins. 

Bice Caies.— Beat 8 yolks and 4 whites of eg^, add 
6 oz. pounded sugar, and lemon peel grated, wt in 



C O OKERY. 



59 



ADDITIONAL. 



halt pound ^uud rice, and beat all half an hour. | 

^SfJS^*'?-«t^ * m?r°m 'To\fr" m,arter buttar ouar- B^^<^ ^^"""-"^ CAojw.-Cut neck of mutton into 
i.^S^ ^^5^™?; f J^fl2»r ^nT ,«z^r r^^^^^^^^ «hop8. BMSon, lay it in V buttered disli, and pour over 

NUke).s.e>andcmio Imall cake«. and bake on 'l^-J^fi,^^^,^^;,^ ? - ^ou^^^^ f,^„^„ I„^j^^_ ^„, 

Kif«* Prtl^ 1 nn.rt flmir <t n? h.ittpr mix ^7 "" salt pork fat till well done, or broil like a aieak. 

JttoWiMt CaRe.-l quart floup, 4 02 nul'er, mii , ■'^„y ^^^ ^^y ^e cooked same as the veal, 
with m.lk, 3 '^-F. 'P°°!'?).«f V; X'^f. CrnSi AnEcmomv^ll Dinner.-Cul 1 lb. Eau^eo in thin 
and pnck with a fcrk, and bake m about 20 minutes. | , .^^ ^ ,^, ^^^ ^^ j^^ some^ions, aild 

If youlMve sour m.lk omit yeast and pu tfl^'PiJon ^dd table-spoau flour mUed in one pint water, suasoo. 
pearl uh in the m.lk, which pour in while efferves- ^ ^^^ ^i^„ .^t^ ,g„jg,_ ^ p„^,„^ ^J"^^^^ „f „ •t(Q^^ ^; 

'"Sa Cote-Rub an oz. butter in lb. flour, with a ' °'"«' «"«»*' '"'^i' ''^ substiluted for sausages. 

beaten egg and half tea-spoon sail. Wet with warm PICKLES. 

mUk— make it stiff, roll thin, cut with top of tumbler PtcUe;.— Use no brass utensils, as the verdigris which 

and bake quick. ' the acid corrodes is a powerful poison, and ilie risk U 
Light CaJie —Found and half sugar, half butler, rub ' loo great for Ihc object, which is to give Ihe pickles a 
~fti " ■ ' ' "" '" -,-^.- -.-.. u-.-^. . . 



in 2 lbs. flour, 1 glass rose water, 8 eggs well beaten, 
half nutmeg, and bake in cups. 

Hard Gingerbread.— Rub half lb. butter in one of 
flour— rub in half lb. angar, two table-spoons ginger- 
spoonful rose \valer; work it well, roll out, and bake 
in flat pans about half hour moderate. 

Common Gin^erifrreod.— One and half lb. flour, 
mb ID tuJf lb. butler, add pint molasses, tea-spoon 
pearl asb, and ginger to the taste ; roll out thin and 
bake on nullerra tins. 

IjuHan Batter CoAef.— 2 quarts milk, 1 ouart Indian 
meal, I tea-cup wheal flour, 3 ^gs, well beat, Ihe 
whiles separate, tea-spocnfut salt. Bake on griddle, 
same as buckwheat. 

Superior Johnny Cafte.— Take 1 quart of milk, 3 
eggs, 1 lea-spoonful saleralus, 1 tea-cup wheat flour and 
Indian meal, sufficient to make a batter of the con'sis- 
tency of pancakes. Bake quick, io pans previously 
buttered, and-eat warm, with either butter or milk. 

A good Cafte.— 4 cups each of flour and Indian 
meal, 1 cup molasses, 2 tea-spoons saleratus, some salt 
Make batter and bake. 

Doaer Cote.— Half pint milk, half tea-spoon pearl 
ash, dissolved in little vinegar, 1 lb. flour, sifted, 1 lb, 
powdered sugar, half lb. butter, 6 eggs, 1 glass rose- 
water, spice to suit taste. Stir sugar ^nd butter to a 
cream, and add the spice. Beat egga light, and atir 
them into the butter and sugar with the flonr. Add 
tbe milk, and stir all hard. Butter a large pan, and 
put in the mixture. Bake two hours or more in a 
moderate oven. If not thick, an hour or an hour and a 
half will do. Wrap in a thicJc cloth, and keep from 
air, and it will keep good for two weeks. 

Ginger Loaf.~A pint Molasses, a pint buttermilk, 
a tea-spoon saleratus disBolvsd in it, four eggs, flour till 
stiff as for pound cake, add ginger and spices, 

Jenette CaJies. — Quarter of sugar, quarter of butter, 
beat to a cream to 2 eg^s, tea-spoon saleratus, tea-cup 
milk, mix in enough flour, roll out thin, cut with a 
tumbler, bake on buttered tin 15 minutes. 

Froit or Icing for Cdka.—'Beat the whites of 4 
eggs to a stiff foam, add gradually three-quarters of a 
pound best loaf sugar pounded and sifted, mix juice of 
naif a lemon, or tea-spoon rose-water. Beat (he mix- 
lure till very light, place tbe cake near the fire, pnur 
over tbe icing, and smooth with a knife or back,of a 
spoon. 

ffreakftut BtUter Caia,—l pint milk, 3 eg^s, large 
spoonful butter, 2 do. yeast, and flour enough to make 
stiff batter; let them stand to rise all night where it is 
not too warm, and bake on a griddle or in tin riuEs. 

Tea Baiter Caftcf.~Beat 2 eggs, add half pint milk 
and tea-cup cream, half tea-spoon pear) asb, tea-spoon 
salt, with nutmeg, cinnamon or rose-water. Add flour 
till thick and smooth. Bake brown on griddle, 
a buttered pan. 

Fan Cakes maybe made very good by frying tbe 
above bailer in hot lard. 

Rice Ptidding. — 1 quart milk, quarter pound rice, 
I ouQCB angar, tea-spoon ginger. Swell tbe rice with 
water, and baiBb an hour. 



flne'green. Pickles should be kept in stone or glass 
jars, as the acid eatsinio and draws out theanenic 
and other pernicious particles which are used in the 
glazing of earthen ware. 

Picble CucumterA.—Lay them in salt and water 
strong enough to benr an egg ; let them remain a few 
days, then scald in vinegar to green them, and jiut them 
in well covered jars. Or they may remain in the 
brine, taking them out, soaking them in fresh water, 
and adding good vinegar a day or two before they are 
to be eaten. They may be made green by scalding in 
vinegar with vine or cabbage leaves. 

Jmingoes.—Cul small hivles io Ihe sides of lai^e cu- 
cumbers, to extract the seeds, which mix with mustard 
seed!, horse radish minced fine, add mace, cloves, pep- 
per and salt, mix well, and stuff tbe large cucumbers 
or peppers full, and bind up with new thread. Then 
boil vinegar with pepper, salt, ginger, and mace, and 
poij it boiling hot over the mangoes 4 successive days, 
or oftener. ^ck away close, filling up with ttie spiced 
vinegar. When ihelons or peppers are used, instead 
of holes in the sides, cut out the stem, and put in lime 
for 8 days, and in strong vinegar for 18 days. A little 
mustard and sweet oil may bo added to the stuffing, 
and chopped garlic, if liked. 

PIES . 
MiTice Pies.—Ttib expensive and unhealthy dish is 
made thus : boil 3 Iba. lean beef tender, and when cold, 
chop tine ; chop 3 lbs. or less clear beef suet, and mix, 
sprinkling in a table-spoon salt. Chop fine 6 lbs ap- 
ples, and 4 lbs. raisins,and2 lbs. curr;ints well washed, 
add all to the meat, season wirb a spoonful cinnamon 
and powdered nutmeg, pounded mace and clov es, and 
1 lb. brown sugar, half jwund citron, grated orange 
peel, and thin it with good cider, and mix all well to- 
gether, 

Another.— 2 lbs. lean beef boiled, 1 lb. suet chopped 
fine, 3 lbs. apples, 2 lbs. raisins or currants, 1 lb. sugar, 
season and moisten with new cider or cream. Make 
a good paste, and bake an hour. 

To nave Mince at any time. — Prepare as above, 
put in earthen put, pound it down and cover with best 
molasses, and keep it from freezing. 

Beets cut in square pieces, and add vinegar, sugar 
and spices, makes a delica'e, beautiful pie. 

Lemon Pies.— 3 good lemons, pare and slice thin, 
add a tea-cup sugar, a tea-cup molasses, and a lea-cup 
of water. Sprinkle in a little flour, and bake as a 
gooseberry pie, which in taste it resembles. 
PKESEKVES. 
Glass is the best for preserves. Cover light and 
keep dry. 

Currants may be preserved without sugar, by care- 
fully culling the fruit from Ihe stalks so as not to wound 
it, when quile dry. Drop the currants in bottles, which 
stop light wilh cork and bury in the garden, neck 
down. , . _^ 

Cherries and damsons may be preserved m the same 
way. 
Fruit, to preserve) ia better not over ripe. 
Good sugar is cheaper in the end than poor, for pre- 
serves. 



«0 



COOKERY— USEFUL DIRECTIONS. 



Raspberry /am.— Weigh equal parts of sugar and 
raspberries. Mash and boil the fruit, then add ttie su- 
gar ; when it boila skim well and let it boi! 20 minutes. 
Strcnoberry Jam U made same as (be raspberry. 
Peach /am.— Wipe, stone, and boil, adding one- 
third sugar. 

.jnotAer.— Feel and stoD& mash the peaches over a 
fire tilt hot, then rub through a aiece, and add a pound 
of loaf-sugar to each pound of peach pulp, boil 13 miC' 
utes, and skim. 

QutTwes.— Preserve by paring tbin, cut in quarterg, 
and to every five pounds add tbree pounds sugar, and 
half pint water. Cover tight, and simmer gently 3 
hours. Or they may be preaerved whole. 

Currant JeU^.— Strain Ibe juice, add pound and 
quarter sugar to each pint juice. Boil gently, and 
skim till it is clear. 

Soapberry and strawberry jelly is made same as the 
currant. 

^pple JeUy, — 4 lbs, apples, pared, chopped, and 
boiled toiuicy pulp, 3 lbs. sugar, boil to a jelly, and fla- 
vour with lemon. 

DRINKS. 
Table Seer, cheap and wholesome. 8 bottles water, 
1 qiiart molasses, I pint yeast, 1 table-spooo cream tar- 
tar, mixed and bottle in 24 hours. 

Ginger Betr.—i dozen bottles may be made of 3 oz. 
good ginger, 3 lbs. sugar, 1 oz. cream lartar, 2 lemons, 
1 gill strong yeast, 3 and a half gallons water. Boil 
the ginger and sugar 25 minuies, then pour it on the 
sliced lemon and tartar, mix. and when milk-warm, 
add the yeast. Let it work 2 or 3 days, and skim it 
well. Strain it into a cask, bunged tight, and in a 
couple weeks, draw off and bottle, tieing the cork 
down. If necessary, add a little more yeast. 

TemperaTice BeuerasE.—lO gals, water, 15* lbs. 
lump sugar, whites of 8 eggs, well beat and strained ; 
mix cold ; boil and skim well, add half pound ginger, 
and boil 20 minutes. Four the liquor on the tbin nnds 
of 7 lemons ; when cool, pour in cask with 2 spoons 
yeast, stir 2 oz. isinglass shavings in 1 quart of the 
warm fluid, and put all in the cask. Next day slop it 
u|k and in 3 weeks bottle, and in 3 months it will be a 
delicious and safe drink. 

.finofAer.— 20 quarts water, 5 lbs. sugar, 6 oz. white 
gineer, 1 oz. stick liquorice, boil well together, and 
add, when cold, a little good yeast, barrel for ten days, 
and then bottle it, putting a lump white sugar in each 
bottle. 

Spruce Seer. — Four 8 gallons boiling water in a 
cask containing 8 gallons cold water, then ndd 16 lbs. 
molasses, and a strong decoclion of the small twies and 
leaves of the spruce, or a few table-spoons essence of 
spruce, mix well, and then add half pint good yeast : 
keep in temperate place, with the bung-hoie open till 
sufficiently worked, then bottle it, and drink in a day 
or two. 

AJU)ther.—l oz. hops and spoonful ginger to each 
gal. water, boil, strain, and add 1 pint molasses, and 
half ounce easBDce of spruce. When cool, add tea-cup 
yeast, and let it ferment in a clean tight cask till done, 
and then bottle. Sprigs of spruce fir may be boiled 
instead of the essence. 

Sun7cft«Z, a pleasant, wholesome drink, is made of 
molasses, vioe^r and water, mixed in suitable propor- 
tions. 

Common Beer.-~2 gallons water, large handful 
hops, fresh gathered spruce, or sweet fern, and 1 quart 
wheat bran; boil 2 orShonrs, strain and stir in, while 
hot, 2 cups molasses. When lukewarm, pour in a 
clean barrel, and add a pint yeast. Shake it well to- 
gether, and use next day. 

LerrtoruidB.—S lemons and half pound loaf sugar to 
1 pint of water, makes a strong lemonade, pleasant, sa- 
lubrious and refreshing. 

IVater is the best beverage of the henlthy. Bad wa- 
ter is doubtless injurious. II may be improved by fil- 
tering, which cools and purifios it. 

F^er waterby putting a bit of sponge in the hole nt 
the bottom of a common flour pot, or spread a piece of 



flannel over the bottom of a vessel perforated with one 
or more holes, then over the flannel spread a layer of 
fine charcoal, and over this a layer or bed of fine sand, 
four or five inches thick, through all of which the wa- 
ter will filler clear as chrystal. 

Rain Water is the beet for drinking, cooking or 
washing, when it can be had pure. Evei^ houBB 
should have a reservoir in which to collect rain water, 
which always, with, and sometimes without, filtering, 
will be found an advantage, especially where water » 
impure and hard. 

PASTE. 

Tot Piea, 6 oz. butter, 8 oz. flour, worked well to- 
gether, with as little water aa possible. Roll out thin. 

Another. — Quarter pound lard or suet, large table- 
spoon butter, pound nour and water enough to mix 
stiff. Roll thin. 

For 7'artSj 1 oz. sifled loaf sugar, I lb. floor, make 
into stiff paste, with 1 gill boiling cream, 3 oz. butter. 
Work it well, and roll out tbin. 

Cuitard Pudding.— I pint milk, 3 large spoons 
flour, 6 eggs, salt, sugar and spice to your taste. 

AnotM»:—2 eg^ and 3 large spoons sogar beat light, 
1 pint milk, and spice to your tute. Bake in cups or 
in paste. 

Cup Cake.~3 cups sugar, 1 butter, 6 flour, 3 eggs, 
tea-spoon pearl asb, all beat together, with spice ai yon 
please. 

Lemon Ice Cream.— Stir a pound of powdered loaf 
sugar into a pint of cream, add the grated rind and 
juice of 5 lemons, or flavour with essence or oil of le- 
mon ; mix and beat all gradually into 3 pints of cream. 
Cover and let it stand an hour, then strain it into the 
freezer, (a long tin vessel, with a tight lid,) close and 
stand in the ice tub, which fill with a mixture of equal 
quantities of coarse salt and ice broken smalt, that it 
may lay compact around the freezer. Snow is belter 
than ice. Press down and keep turning till the cream 
is froze, which wilt be in 2 hours. Occasionally scrape 
down the cream. Be careful not to let the salt fall in 
the cream, and do not freeze so long as to freeze out 
the flavour. 

When cream is deficient, e^gs aresomelimesheat up 
with milk, or arrow root is powdered and rubbed 
smnoth in a little cold milk, and added lo the cream. 

Stranvberry Ice Cream.— Hull 2 quarts strawberries, 
add half pound fine sugar, cover and stand an hour or 
two,-<ithen mash through a sieve till all the juice is 
pressed oat. Stir in sugar enough to make a thick sy- 
rup. Then mix by degrees with 2 quarts cream, beat- 
ing it bard. Freeze as above. 

Baspberrvj piae-apple, and other fruit ice cream 
make according to preceding receipt. 

Vanilla ice cream made by splitting up ha]f a va- 
nilla beau, boiling it slowly in half pint milk till the 
flavour is drawn out. Mix it in same as the strawberry, 
and freeze as directed. 

TTSEFUL tHRECTIONS. 

Ink spilt on a carpet take up with a spoon, then 
pour on clean water and apply the spoon >^in, and 
repeat this till the slain is out. 

Polish Mahogany by nibbing it once a week wilh 
cold drawQ Unseed oil, wipe off the oil, and mb with 
a di^ clolfa. 

Flies, — Keep from frames, glass, ftc, by boiUng 4 
leeks in pint water, and waging over with a soft 
brush- 

Flarvral — Wash in hot, clean suds, and never rinse. 

FTUCIo/Aeishould not be worn near a fire.nrtO'aa 
lo occasion sudden heat. Keep in motion tilt dry can 
be had, then change at once, and gtve the fbet a long 
heating. 

Slttik SiVa wash in warm smdl beer and milt. 
Windows, clean with a dnmp linen cloth, then a 
dry one, then dust over powdered whiting in muslin, 
which clean ofif with wash-leather or dry cloth. 

Clxan Paint without nsin;; cloth. Remove dirt 
with a finabni^. If soiled, dip flannel in pearl ash 
or soda water, wash and dry quickly. 



USEFUL DIRECTIONS. 



61 



Grease Spots are removed from cloth, silk, &c., by 
esaBQce of lemon rubbed on with a ra^, 

BaXb to l&ke out grease spots. Moisten dry Fuller's 
earth with lemon juice, add powdered pearl ash, and 
mix well, and make in little balla—dry well in the 
EUD. Use by moillening (be spots with water, rub ou 
the tHkll, then dry and bruah off. 
- JIfotiU are kept away by oil of lavender, tobacco, 
black pepper, or camphor. 

Wood, fOr fuel, should be a^ dry as possible, as the 
heat required to evaporate the moisture in greea wood 
is eqiiivaleot lo a loss of 25 per cent. 

Under Beds are made lasting, soft, elastic and sweet 
from the muer busks of coro. 

Qrease may be taken out of silk by powdered mag- 
nesia applied immediately to the wrong aide, 

iScia from apple butter, and some other acids, will 
sometimes decompose theglaziog of earthen ware, and 
renders it a dangerous poison. 

Bed Bugs may be removed by a slroog decoction of 
the ^lant called water pepper, or smart weed. But the 
best remedy is strict cleanliness. 

Pure Wkn£ is made of 3 gallons water, 5 lbs. bloom 
raisms stoned, put in narrow-mouthed sione jug, covered 
with a fine rag, kept near fire ten days, and then racked 
o£. 

Beets roasted like potatoes are sweeter and richer 
than boiled. 

Potatoes. — An Irish journal says : " Put them in a 
pot or kettle without a lid, with water just sufficient to 
cover them ; after the water has come nearly lo boil, 
pour it ofE^ replace it wiih cold water, into which 
throw a good portion of salt — the cold water sends the 
heat from the surbce to the heart, and makes the po- 
tatoes mealy— after they are boiled, and the water 
ponred off, let them stand over the fire for 10 or 15 
minutes to dry. 

tnh on Mahogany. —Take out by diluted vitriol, 
touch with a feather, then rub it quickly. 

/7>£— Make with 2 gallons son water, pound and 
half bruised galls, keep near a senile heat for 2 or 3 
weeks, stirring often ; then add half pound each of 
copperas, logwood chips, and gum arabic, some loaf 
BDgar, lemon peel, and gilt braudy. 

Starch, — Peel and grate a quantity of potatoes, put 
the pulp in a coane cloth, and press between two 
hoards to a dry cake. The juice so pressed out, mix 
with equal quantity of water, and the starch settles at 
the bottom. 

A Creakine Door prevent by rubbing soap or oil on 
the hingea. 

Grease from boards or atone remove by strong ley 
of pearl ash mixed with aa much unslacked lime as it 
will take up. Let it selile and bottle for use. When 
Dsed, weaken with water, and scour off very quick, to 
prevent taking out the colour. 

CriiAelt or roaches destroy by laying yellow snuff 
on tbeir holes, wafers or assaftetida or elder busbes. 

Iron mouid, ink or mildew, take out of linen, (white 
only,) by oxalic acid. 

Ariotner. — Take out mildew by soft soap mixed 
with powdered siarch, half as much salt, and the juice 
of lemon. Touch both sides, and lay on the grass 
night and day, 

many stains may be removed by dipping in sour 
milk, drying in hot sun, and wash in cold water. 

MiJAof Ave*.— Mix 4 oz. oil almonds, lialf gill rose 
water, 40 drops oil of tartar. 

Pomaium. — Beat a pound lard in water, then eoak 
and beat in two rose waters, drain and beat with gill 
brandy. Let it drain from this, scent as you please, 
and keep it in small pots. 

Cheese Whey b an exceedingly wholesome drink. 

Carpeis wear longer ihe^oflener they are shook, at 
dust beneath grinds out. Never use a stiff broom, but 
keep a soft one or brash purposely for the carpet. 

Strain carpet or matting wash with salt and waleTf 
and wipe with a clean dry cloth. 

To black a hearth, boil black lead, soft soap, and a 
little water. 



Clean Brass with flannel dipped in oil, than rub 
with fine rotten stone, aud polish with wash leather. 

Isinglass is a deticale starch for fine muslins. 

Bed Curtainsaxe uohealihy, from confining the air. 

Old Bread is much improved by steamiug it, or 
warming it over. 

Keep lard in tin, salt pork'fat in glazed earlhen, salt 
in dry place, meal in coot, dry place, ice in the cellar, 
wrapped in llannel, vinegar in wood or glais. 

BtUter may be kept sweet for many months by 2 
parts salt, 1 part loaf sugar pounded and well mixed ; 
1 ounce welt mixed with each pound butter, and close 
up In a proper vessel. 

Sore Tftroaf.— Take aglass of olive or sweet oil, and 
a half a glass of the spirits of turpentine, mix them 
well together, and rub the throat externally, wearing 
flannel around it at the same time. 

Wbiteuiash. — Take clean lumps of well burnt lime, 
(say five or six quarts,) slack (he same with hot water 
in a tub, (covered to keep in the steam,) pass it in the 
fluid form tbroii|h a fine8ieve;~add one-fourth of a 
pound of whitening or burnt alum, pulverised ; one 
pound of good sugar, three pints of rice flour, made 
mto a thin and well boiled paste, aud one pound of 
clean glue, dissolved by first soaking it well, and then 
putting iiinto a smalt kettle, which should be put into 
a large one filled with water, and placed over a slow 
fire. Add five gallous of hot water to the whole mix- 
ture. Apply with a painter's brush warm, if upon the 
outside of the building— if within doors, cold. It will 
retain its brilliancy for many years, 

A Durable Whitewash.— Behre putting your lime, 
which should be unslacked, into the water, saturate the 
water with muriate of soda, (common salt.) 

Beds, instead of being made up as soon as people rise 
out of them, ought to be turned down, and exposed to 
the fre^ air from the open windows through the day. 

To purify Water.— A lable-spoonAil of finely pul- 
verised alum sprinkled into a barrel of water, the wa- 
ter stirred briskly. 

Slacking, — Soz. ivory black, 6oz. molasses, Stable- 
spoons sweet oil, 3 do. oil of vilriol, mix with 1 quart 
vinegar, bottle and use in a week. 

Ftithy smells in gutters, kc., obviate by using water 
in which lime has been slacked, mixed with ley of 
ashes, or soapy water that has been used in washing. 

Cliarcoat, when burning, should have an uncovered 
vessel of boiling water over it, the vapour of which 
will counteract the deleterious fumes. 

Powdered Charcoal will remove smells, impurities, 
&c., from old glass vessels, after the grosser parts have 
been scoured off with sand and ptitasb. 

^ Perfume for linen, kc., is made of rose leaves 
dried in the shade, mixed with powdered cloves, 
scraped mace, and put in little bags. 

C&nent China with lime sifted through fine muslin, 
to be dusted on after the edges aie moistened with white 
of egg. Join quickly, ana tie secure. 

Bust on Steel remove by sweet oil first, and in 48 
hours rub with unslacked, powdered lime. 

Mend iron pots, pans, &c,, by sifted lime mixed 
with well beaten whites of eggs till reduced lo paste, 
then add iroo file dust, and cover the cracks, &c. r 

Merui Glass or China with 2 quarts litharge, 1 quid 
lime, and 1 of flint glass, separately powdered fine, and 
worked into a paste with drying oil. 

Marble iron stains remove with spirits of vitriol 
and lemon juice mixed, wet the spots, and iii few min- 
utes rub with soft linen. 

Clean tWA.— 1 quart soft water, 2 oz. lemon juice, 
6 grains burnt alum, 6 grainssalt. Mix. Boil a min- 
ute, strain and twttle for use. Rub teeth once a week 
wiih it. See page 29. 

White Teeth.— Vie a mixture of honey with purest 
pulverised charcoal, but not so often as to wear the 
enamel of the teeth. 

Fire in chimneys extinguish by closing doors and 
windows, and throwing on the coals water, a handful 
flour of Bulpbui) or salt, and stop up the fire-place tight, 
so as to shut off^all draft. 



> 



62 



GENERAL CONTENTS. 



Substitute for Tea — 5 parts of petals of red rose 
dried, 1 part rosemary leaves, 2 parts balm Jeaves, 
Mix. a desert-spoonful makes half a pinl of ;nTu;.ioii. 
Use vvilh cream and sugar, same as tea. Instead of 
the injury to the nervous system which foreign tea oc- 
casions, this is found to strengthen the stomach and 
□erves, and keep up a healthy digestion. It is not only 
far more healthy, but more economical, and quite as 
palatable. 

Another. —YoMn% strawberry flowers and leaves 
dried, not in the sun, but in tlie air, and not washed, 
and used same as China lea, are used in Germany, and 
found a good substitute ; also, young and lender leaves 
of the sloe tree, or black thorn, properly-dried. 



flVwV.— Honey water promotes its growth, made by 
mixing 4 lbs. honey, and 2 lbs. dry sand in a large ves- 
sel ; distil with gentle heat, to a yellowish acid water. 
—See page 29. 

Sugar Vinegar.— \ gallon water, 2 lbs. brown su- 
gar, and tittle yeast. Expose 6 months to the sun. 

Cream and milk can be very well imitated by beat- 
ing an egg, and Ihen pouring boiling lea over it gra- 
dually, to prevent ils curdling. 

.Sreaff should never be eaten until 1 day old. Un- 
less where the digestive powers of an ostrich are pos- 
sessed, fresh hot bread will sonner or later bring oo 
Dyspepsia, with iis train pf miseries. 



AMERICAN POCKET LIBRARY 

OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE. 
Willi upwards of One Thousand Valuable Recipes. 



GENERAL 
AGRICULTURE. Comprising a mass 
of information on the management of 
Soil, Manures, Grass, Grain, Roots, 
Horses, Cattle, the Dairy, &c., &c., 
carefully gleaned a.'hH condensed from 
the papers of the Philai3elphia Agri- 
cultural Society, the agricultural pa- 
pers of the day, and the actual experi- 
ence of the best practical Farmers. 
HEALTH. Furnishing instructions for 
the treatment of Wounds, Poisons, 
Bruises, and diseases generally, and 
especially for the PRESERVATION 
of Health; condensed, in part, from the 
Journal of Health, conducted by an 
Association of Physicians, and edited 
by Dr. Bell, the best medical writer in 
the United States, and which has re- 
ceived the sanction of Professors in the 
University of Pennsylvania and others. 
Containing, in addition, a large num- 
ber of valuable recipes. Sec, all of 
which may at times be of importance 
to families and individuals. 

POLITICAI,. The Constitution of the United States, 
entire, with the Amendments, a national document 
which should be in the possession of every Free- 
man. .Slso, the year in which each Slate was set- 
tled, and by whom, number of square miles, time of 
holding Elections, qualification of Voters, Members 
of Congress, Electors. &c., in each Slate in theUnion, 
Office Hunters, &c., by Judge Hopkinson. 

SUGAR BEET- Here is furnished ample instruc- 
tions for the cullivation of the Sugar Beet, by James 
Ronaldson, Esq., who visited Europe ezpresslv for 
the purpose of adding to the agricultural products 
of the United States. 

SILK CULTURE. Comprising the Manual for pro- 
ducing and reeling Silk, growing the Foliage, m^n- 
aging^the Eggs, Worms, and Cocoons, including the 
whoFe process of Silk making, as approved by the 
Legislature of I'ennsylvania, on the Report of Com- 
mittees recommending the purchase of two large 
edilions, 

HORTICULTURE. Cultivation of Flowers, Plants, 
Fruits, Vines, &c., by Henry A. Dreer, Seedsinan 
and Florist.- 

BIRDS. Instructions for tho feedinc and 
genera) management of Canaries, Mock- 
ing, ani^ other favourite songBters. 



CONTENTS. 

TEMPERANCE. A comprehensive outline of the 
great Temperance movement, and a Certificate to 
the Young Men of the Uuilcd States, by Ex-presidents 
Madison, Jackson, Adams and Van Buren, accompa- 
nied by engraved f.ic similies of the signatures as 
written by each of those distinguished statesmen. 

CANALS AND RAIL ROADS. All in the United 
Slates, their Length, Locallon, FrolitB, &c., and Ta- 
bles showing the comparative advantages of Animal 
and Mechanical labour. 

RELIGION. Enumeration of different Sects, Wash- 
ington's Farewell Address, the Atheist, Stc. 

STATISTICS. Valuable and interesting Slafistical 
Tables, showing the amount of Grain of all kinds, 
Hay, Cotton, Sugar, Wine, Lumber, Woo], Horses, 
Mules, neat Cattle, in each and every State in the 
Union, together wilh the Population of the whole 
Country, Cities, Towns, &c. 

COOKERY. Nutriment in different Food, 
Directions for making Soups, Roasting, 
Boilintr, Dreesin^, &c., Pies. Puddings, 
Preserves, Pickles, Pastry, Cakes, &c., 
wilh useful Recipes, on a variety of culi- 
nary and household affairs. 

AIjSO.- a Treatise on Ihe nreservation, 
health and beauty of the TEETH, com- 
piled from the best Dentiate. The erowth 
and beauty of the HAIR, by J. Dalzell 
Moore, the superior Hair Dresser. The 
engraved Alphabet for the DEAF and 
DUMB. The LAW. Important Advice 
to EMIGRANTS and WESTERN SET- 
TLERS, by Rev. J. Flint, the result of six- 
teen years' experience in the West. MA- 
NUFACTURES. FOREIGN TRADE. 
Value of FOREIGN MONEYS ns fixed 
by Law. Comparative WEIGHTS and 
MEASURES in different Foreign Ports. 

GIRARD'S WILL, and an eneravineof 
the College for Orphans. THOMPSON- 
ISM, showing all the plants &C., used in 
the BOTANIC PRACTICE of Medicine, 
with their properties, Mode of Adininisler- 
ing, &.C., &.C., with valuable Directinne. 
Recipes, &Cm amountine in nil to UP- 
WARDS OF ONE THOUSAND. 

ENGRAVINGS. Miniature Portraits of (he 
Nine Presidents of the United Stotes. Gi- 
rard Collece. Four Phrenological Heads, 
and New Patent Office, and the splendid 
NATIONAL GALLEfeY at Washing- 
ton. 



INDEX. 



A. Fagfl 

AORICDLTUBE, Its ImpoTtanre. . a< 

Superior FDrming 3 

FhilBdelphia A«[iou1t. Bociet; 3 
Improved HodeorFeediog.... S 

MaDares 4 

PlDuebing, beat luodeR, Sio. ... 4 
GraioSt Nature and CuUivalion 

of 6 

GrOH, Potatoca, Ate fl 

FeedioE and MaiiDgemciit of 

Stock 7 

Tbe Hone, wllb Ample In- 

atruotloDa>.>. B 

To Make Fencea S 

Deep PlongbtDg 4 

SoiUngCalUe 3 

Stall Feeding 9 

Snaceaaful FarmlDg 10 

Oeoeral DirtiofioiiBt embmclnK 
1 number of Uneni] Jteceipta 

in Farming. 

Apple Pudding, to Make 66 

Altbea 14 

Ascidenta and Bemedlea 38, 19 

Adulterated Liquora— Semedy Pro> 

poaed 27 

Athelat S9 

Armr 31 

Aniidotea for VBrloiuPol«0Di..23, fiS 

Alpbabet for Dear and Dumb 41 

Advice Id Law... 43 

Animal and other Food, Nutriment 

or 67 

Agricultural Stdtlitlca 64, 66 

Araeudmenta to tbe United Blalea 

Conatitution 62 

B. 
BEES, Hearing and MauBCement 

of 8 

Birda, Feeding, Training, and Qe- 

neral management of 17 

Bread, to Make, ^c es 

Bread Pudding SB 

Beer, to Hake 60 

Bruiaea and Sprains, to Cure.. ..SO, 24 
Borna and Scalda, Bemedlea for SO, 24 

Blliona Diaordera ., 21 

BedB of Feathers, Evile of 23 

Bleeding, tia Danger, alaowhenNe- 

ceaBai7,and howPerfonned 24 

Boiauic Practice, or Thompaonfim 

Explained, vilh Il«uription of 

all the Plants, BoaaT^fcc., Mods 

ofGatherlngiAdminialerlngiAc. 26 

Bajberry, Ifa Froperliei 26 

Bitter Herb, Its Use 2S 

Bible 40 

C. 

Cows, management of..... 8 

Cocoouerlea..... .>........., 16 

Caiurles , 17 

Cauiesof Diaeose SO 

Cleanlineaa, Importance of ....20, 24 

Clothing, Derecllve. Stv 21 

Cold, Infliience of 21 

Caalivenesa 21 

Cofsela, abuse cf 21 

Consumption 23, 23 

Croap, Ua Danger and Cure 23 

CongbfCnre for 23 

Cayenne, Its MedicalPropertlcs.... 26 

Custard Podding 68, SO 

Cakea EB, 60 

Canals and Bajl'Roads... .,., 33 

Cbriitlan 83 

Capital Punlebment 42 

Constitution of the United Slatea 46 

Cooker; 67 

D. 

Dntiea on ImportalloCB 17 

Diet 19 

How moat wholesome 24 

Drowned Persons, Becoverr of. ., 20 
Deathr Canae of among Women. .. 22 



Page 
Dinaipation, Its Appalling Frnila. . .. 37 
DENTISTRY, comprising full Dl- 
reollona for the Care and Preser- 
vation of Teeth SO 

Diatrict School SB 

Dear and Dumb 41 

Dislancce, Tables nf.i 47 

E. 

tBDonaibilitleE. 

18 

Economical Dinner... 6D 

Exorcise, Importance of SO, 24 

Early RlHlog 20 

Eye Sight 28 

Emigrants, Advice to 86 

Education SO 

Ekclion of 1840 48 

Extent of each Slate ..j... 46 

Elections, whenbeld in each Stale 46 
Eleotora, number of in each Blate 46 

F. 
Fl0W6in Cultivation of, by Henry 
A. DFcer, Seedsman and Floriat 13 

Froat or Icing for Cokea 69 

Fruit Trees.r. i& 

Food, Abuse of, Ac... 20 

Fasting, Beneflta of S2 

Fruits of Temperance ST 

Foreign Honeys, Value of as fixed 

by Law 63 

G. 

Ginger Beer, to Make 80 

Ginger, Medical Qualities of 2S 

Giranl College 38 

H. 

Hogs, to Keep 6' 

Hooeyauckles, to Cullivate 14 

HEALTH, Means of Securing it.. 24 

Heart Burn, Acidity, tea 21 

Hair, on Ita Grontli and Beauty, 

by J. Dalzell Moore 23, 29 

Hemlock, ita Uses S6 

Home vereoa Taverne S8 

Horaee, Treatment of ■..■••..>... 8 

Headache, Cause and Bemedy 91 

I. " 

Icing for Cakes 60 

Ice Cream, to Make 80 

Impure Air, its Evils SO 

'1NTEMFEBA.NCE, its Deplorable 
Evils, Publio and Private Miiie- 

rleB,&c 20, 37 

L. 
Lobelia, or Emetic Herb, Account 

of 26 

Laws of^NalUTOlization. 36 

Law, The 43 

Legislatuiea, MeellngR of in each 
Slate 46 

M. 

MacamotiB * 68 

Mocking Bird 18 

Hodern Cooker? Fernicioua SO 

Mechanics and Workingmen, tbeir 

Inleresta 28 

Mothers, Duty of 84 

Mint, United Stales 37 

Moral of the Election 48 

Mcala, to Coiik 67 

MeBKures and Weighta, Compara- 
tive Tablea In Foreign Porta.... 63 

Medicine 19 

MediciDiil Herba S6 

Moneys Foreign, value of aa fixed 

by Law 63 

N. 

Neat Cattle 7 

Newspapers.. ...I.. 18 

Nervonauesa ..■•• 21 

Naturalization 80 

Navy 37 



0. Poge 

Oxen " 

Office Hunte^^ by Judge Hfpkln- 

P. 

Prealdenta, Nine, Portralta oft.. 1. 

Pile ,. 

Poultry 

PiBnIs , - 

Puddings __ 

Plum Puddinn G8 

Pickles, toMak 

Preservea, to Make 

Pasta fur Pies, dec „ 

Pruning ]4 

Public Health .• ]- 

POISONS, Antidotes for S3, 6 

Phrenology, with Engraved Heada 3. 
Patent Offlue and Patent Lawa.... SO 

Post Ofilce and Public Lands 31 

Population of United Blalea ....... 66 

Population of Cities and Towns. .. 60 

Q- 

dnackery. Domestic 20 

Quincea, to Preeerve. 

R. 

Rosea. 

Beeling Bilk ]6 

RecelpjH, Remedies, dEc 23 

Rtaeumatlami Cure for S3 

Bail-Roada and Caoala S 

Religion in ibo United BUte S 

S. 

Spruce Beer.. 6 

Bheep 

8 ucceastul Farming 1 

Snull Forma , i 

StrOAB BBBT, Complete Inatruo- 
tlona for its Culture, by Jumea 

Ronaldson ] 

SILK, Manual for producing Bilk, 
oppioved by the Legislature of 
Pennsylvania.—............... 1 

Sick Birds 1 

Bprnina and Bruiaea ., 2 

Bcalda and Burns ...>... 2 

Bumacta, Ita Medical Virtues S 

Squaw Weed, Quallliea of 2 

Seeds, Directions for 3 

Schools 3 

Soups, to Make 6 

Stales, Population of..... 6 

Settlement of the several Btatea... 4 

Bella, Treatment of 

T. 

ToBst and Water 2 

Tight Dreealng, Ita Bvlla 2 

Thin Bhoea, Advice about 2 

Toothache Cured 2 

Tetter S: 

Tbompioniem 2. 

TEMPERANCE, Important Teali- 

mony of > 3 

Tetotaliam, Its Blesainga 2 

Travelling Routea 4 

U. 

Useful Directlona 6< 

V. 

Vegetable 12, 2 

Vines ] 

Vinegar, ita Virtue 3 

Voters, Qualificationa of In each 

State 4i 

W. 
Wounda, Dressing and Care of... 1! 

Water, to Puril^ 2: 

White Hazel, ita Virtues 21 

WORLD, Extent and Population of Si 
Women, Influence of, by Judge 

Hopkinion 3< 

Western Bet tiers. Advice to 8i 

Washington's FarewellAddreaa, 93, 4' 
Weighia and Meaanres, Compara- 
tive Tablea In Foieign Poets.... 61 
Water, to Filter • & 



m 



1 

it 


ji "it™ 

i , ■ ' , 





