
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



f 



Digitized by VjOOQiC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



yGoogk 



Digitized by VjOOQiC 



IMIA^WISLL A JIOIHINSON, 

PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS, 

S. B. Comer of Ninth and Cheitnut Sireeii, 
PHILADELPHU: 

Bave in Vresst and nearly &eadyp 
A HISTORY OF THE HORSE, 

IN ALL ITS VARIETIES AND USES; 

TOGETHER WITH COMPLETE DIRECTIONS FOR THE BREEDINO, 

REARINe AND MANAOEMENT: AND FOR THE CURE OF 

ALL DISEASES TO WHICH HE IS LIABLE. 

FROM THE LAST LONDON EDITION, 

Published by the Society for the Dijfusion of Useful Knowledge; illus- 
trated with numerous Engravings, 

TO WHICH 18 ADDED, 

NotM and CorrecUoni. including Temarin on the American TieKinf Hone, and 
direcUons for the Breeding and oeee of 

THE MULE, 

By J. S. SKINNER, Esq. 
Late Editor of the AmericaD Tarf Register. 



A TREATISE 

ON THE 

PD@1AS1@ OIF rU^ MISJMflT 

AND 

GREAT VESSELS, 

AND ON THE 

AFFECTIONS THAT MAY BE MISTAKEN FOR THEM: 

COMPmnNO THB 

Author's view of the Ph3rsiology of the Heart's Action and Sounds 

as Demonstrated by his Experiments on the Motions 

and Sounds in 1830, and on the Sounds in 1834-5. 

By J. HOPE, M.D. F.R.S. 

Of St. Oeoige's Hospital; formerly Senior PhTSician to the St. Marrlehone Infirmarj; 
Extraordinary Member, and formerly President, of the Royal Medical Society of 
Edinburgh, &c 

FreST AMERICAN FROM THE THIRD LONDON EDITION. 

With Notef and a Detail of Recent Experimenta, 

BY C. W. PENNOCK, M.D. 

Attending Phywieian to the Philadelphia Botpitatt BlochUy, 



yGoogk 



IiATBIiir PVBIiISHED, 

A TREATISE ON 

AMAUROSIS AND AMAUROTIC AFFECTIONS, 

BY 

EDWARD OCTAVIUS HOCKEN. 



ESSAYS ON THE 

SOURCES AND MODE OF ACTION OF FEVER, 

BY 

DRS. DAVIDSON AND HUDSON. 



Baswell Sc Jobnson pablish 
DUNGLISON'S MEDICAL LIBRARY 

AND 

B IhO T !1 L IL fl © H INI © IE 1^ a 

A CONCBNTIUTED RECORD OF MEDICAL SCIENCE AND LITERATDRE; 

IN MONTHLY NUMBERS, 

At %S per Annam. 



ALSO, 

WALDIE'S 

SELECT CIRCULATING LIBRARY, 

AND 

JOURNAL OF BELLES LETTRES, 

INCLUDING 

MEMOIRS, BIOGRAPHY, NOVELS, TALES, VOYAGES, Ac 

IN WEEKLY NUMBERS, 

At $5 per Annum* 



yGoogk 



ON 



REGIMEN 



AND 



LONGEVITY: 



COMPRISING 



MATERIA ALIMENTARU, NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES 

AND THE INFLUENCE OF CIVILIZATION ON 

HEALTH AND THE DURATION OP LIFE. 



BY 



JOHN BELL, M. D., 



Lecturer on materia Medlca, Fellow of the College of Phyticlana of Philadelphia, 
Member of the American Philoaophical Society, &c kc. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

HASWELL & JOHNSON, 

NINTH AND CHESTNITT STREETS. 
1842. 



yGoogk 



Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1843, 

By John Bkll, M. D^ 

In the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the Eastern District 

of Pennsylvania. 



T. K. & P. O. Collins, PrinteiB. 



yGoogk 



PREFACE- 



ALTHovaH addressing himself chiefly to the general 
reader, in the present work, its author has not forgotten 
the advantages of a treatise on dietetic regimen to the 
ph3rsician. The subject is, confessedly, one of interest 
to all, and on which all ought to have an accurate 
knowledge, at least of its main principles ^and their 
more immediate personal application. It has been the 
aim of the author to collect and arrange more abundant 
and diversified materials, in order to guide his readers to 
a proper conclusion, than are met with in books on re- 
gimen. In place of fixing attention on the precise weight 
and measure of every article of food as it is brought to 
the table, and prescribing rigidly the allowance to the 
invalid, he has extended the range of observation and 
inquiry, and showed how entire nations have lived and 
thrived on the very substance about which there was 
so much medico-culinary consultation and speculation. 
He has preferred setting forth the conditions and attain- 
able means by which communities are kept in health, 
and longevity attained, to minute specifications of the 
arts by which a luxurious and pampered individual 
may compromise between his appetites and his health, 
and procure enjoyment, if it were possible^ without 
complying with the laws through which alone it is pro- 
1 



yGoogk 



IV PREFACE. 

curable. But^ although the lesson be not specially di- 
rected to the invalid, it is so contrived as to reach his 
wants and strengthen his convictions of what is proper. 
Thus, in describing the several vegetable substances 
used for food and their competency to impart abundant 
nutriment to large masses, if not the entire population 
of a country, the author, in these pages, hopes to carry 
persuasion to the mind of an invalid, or sick person, of 
their dietetical importance in his own case, better than if 
the opinions of Hippocrates orCelsus, of Rush or Physick 
were repeated most impressively in their favour. An 
enlarged knowledge, such as that furnished by a view 
of National Dietetic Usages and of the wide geographi- 
cal range and cultivation for food of various vegetable 
substances, will, it is believed, serve to dispel certain 
prejudices against some articles, on the regular iand con- 
tinued use of which, for a period of more or less dura- 
tion, the restoration to health of the invalid and the sick 
will greatly depend, more, indeed, than on medicines, 
however skilfully prescribed and punctually and atfee- 
tionately administered. Both physician and patient 
will, he believes, give the author some credit for his 
pains-taking in this respect. 

But, as already intimated, he does not profess to deal 
in specialties; his ambition is to influence the com- 
munity at large, and particularly the young and in- 
quiring, whose habits are not yet formed. For this 
purpose, he has placed before them a series of fkcts, on 
the dietetic usages of both ancient and modern nations, 
and on the alimentary value and amount of the sub- 
stances used for food in nearly all parts of the in- 
habited globe. Details of this nature are part of the 
physical history of man, which ought to precede tbe 
study of bis general or politico-civil history. They might 



yGoogk 



PRfiVAOB. V 

be much more carefully and accurately iuter woven with 
geographical descriptions than they are, and in this way 
the truths of both would be impressed durably and 
pleasurably on the minds of the young. 

The production and suitable supply of food, parti- 
cularly of that which is the produce of the soil, are 
subjects of multifarious interest and application. They 
concern the physician, who sees in years of scarcity and 
&mine years of pestilence; they concern also the poli- 
tical economist, and the moralist and divine, the first 
of whom notes the fluctuations, the increase and de- 
crease of population corresponding with, because caused 
by, the alternations of abundance and scarcity of food; 
while the last are enabled to trace public tumults and 
private disorder, breaches of the social compact, reck- 
lessness and violence against property and person, to 
the gnawing of hunger, and the wretchedness of despair 
which comes over the destitute and the starved. How 
insufficient if not powerless must be the skill of the 
physician, the science of the economist, or the pious zeal 
of the preacher, if only directed to the relief or amend- 
ment of individuals, when the general causes are com- 
mitting their havoc on the masses. On a subject of so 
much common interest, not only to the thoughtful and 
professional few, but to mankind everywhere, it is de- 
sirable that each should contribute his share of in- 
formation towards increasing the means of physical 
comfort, which has so dose a connection with moral 
and social well-being and well-doing. The question in its 
main aspect is, as yet, one of comparatively speculative 
inquiry in the United States; but, with our rapidly in- 
creasing populatiooyit must soon assume its full practical 
importance; and then wo, if, with the example of warn* 



yGoogk 



VI PJUIVAOB. 

ing at least before us in the old world, we are not pre- 
pared for the emergency better than they have been. 

There is, and has been for some time, a state of things 
among us which, although not interfering to a de- 
structive extent with our alimentary support, has most 
ruinously with pubhc and individual health and eco- 
nomy. It is equivalent to a protracted war, to a con- 
tinually recurring or rather never ceasing epidemic: and, 
like these scourges of mankind, it both depopulates and 
demoralizes. As such it would seem to call more espe- 
cially for the intervention of the healing art; but as a 
mixed evil, being both physical and moral in its origin, as 
it is in its spread and effects, it can only be stayed by the 
joint counsel and sustained action of physician, divine, 
legislator and political economist, — all of them invoking 
the people to relieve themselves of the burden, and show- 
ing by what means they may succeed. Every reader 
sees that these remarks are made in reference to the con- 
sumption of alcoholic drinks, and to drunkenness and 
its associations in this country. The author has endea- 
voured, in this work, to show the extent of the evil, and 
that its operation is not confined to our own land. Not 
abroad then must we look for the remedy or the means 
of reform, nor to the imitation of foreign custom with the 
inveiglements of poetry and sophism. The cure is with 
ourselves; happily, also, it is known, and in process of 
successful operation. 

While advocating simplicity, the author also recom- 
mends variety in dietetic regimen: he thinks that meat 
should be sparingly used, but he displays the endless 
variety of vegetable food, and the prodigal supply of 
fruits with a luxurious enjoyment io their free use, — 
in the state in which, by a favouring cKmate and skilful 



yGoogk 



mdustry, they are mel with in nearly all parts of the 
world. If he has enlarged with apparent disproportion 
on the subject of fruits, it has been with a hope that the 
very description of their excellence and abundance in 
different countries might serve as an incentive to re« 
newed and more extended efforts at home, for the im- 
provement of those now grown and the introduction and 
successful culture of others. Horticulture, the attend- 
ant and embellisher of agriculture, which provides so 
many palatable and healthful additions to the substan- 
tial produce of the field, and correctors of the undue 
stimulus and acrimony of much animal food, merits all 
the fostering care which an uncorrupted and yet edu« 
cated and refined taste has ever extended to it A 
well cultivated garden, in due alternation of vegetable, 
fruit and flower, gives us poetry without its illusions, 
nature divested of her ruggedness and art of its con- 
straint. 

The present work n^ay be considered, in a measure, 
as a Materia ^limentttriay in the description of the 
several articles of which the author has followed nearly 
the same order with that adopted by writers on Materia 
Medica. The original locality and the countries where 
the cerealiaj leguminoaXy and nutritive tubers j such as 
the potato and cassava, and the nutritive and other 
fruits flourish, — their composition as respects proximate 
principles, their alimentary value and absolute and re- 
lative quantities, produced and available for home and 
foreign consumption, are duly mentioned. Subsequently 
will be found the modes of preparation and combination 
of the chief nutritive grains, for common use and the 
wants of the invalid. 

In sedulously avoiding all needless technicalities, the 
author has been mindful of the proper expectations of 



yGoogk 



VUl VKESAXmi 

the general reader, while at the same time he has not 
thought himself free to pass over the explanations and 
illustrations furnished by organic chemistry^ whic^ 
merits a better fate than being thrust away in the farthest 
corner of our common works on general chemistry, or 
hurried over as a dispensable appendix to a course 
of public lectures on the science at large. Its available- 
ness for hygiene will probably be more evident to the 
student of medicine and the amateur of science, irre- 
spective of profession, than they have hitherto supposed. 

The free introduction of statistical calculations into 
these pages will often give the reader a clearer idea of the 
alimentary importance and commercial value of certain 
substances used for food than common notices or even 
any assertion of their extraordinary dietetic value could 
convey. 

Disposed to give a wide yet not unusual latitude of 
interpretation to " Regimen," the author would gladly 
have treated of the other topics which, with his ideas of 
the subject, come properly under this head. He had even 
collected materials with a view to their forming a part of 
the present work. But full and detailed as it is, on one 
great and important department, and which, in the popu- 
lar sense, is generally understood to include that which 
is chiefly meant by regimen, he regrets the less that 
he must postpone, to a future period, the publication 
of his observations and r^ections on some of its other 
topics, among which ^ir and Exercise will probably be 
the first discussed. 



yGoogk 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 



PUBUC HTeiSKK. 



Connection between health and longevity, and personal enjoyment and 
prolonged usefulness — Their importance admitted in all systems of legis- 
lation—Mosaic — Mohammedan — Greek and Roman — Liberty favourable 
to nationnl health — Examples derived from Palestine, Greece, Ral^y Hol- 
land—Christian civilization has increased the mean duration of life~- 
Illustrations drawn from Geneva — Mean duration of life — Probability of 
life-^Reference to ancient Rome — Ancient and modem France contrasted 
— Also, Great Britain and Russia — ^Not to confound ingrafted vices with 
civilization itself— The social and selfish enjoyments m harmouy with 
general and individual health — Malign influence of war on health. - 13 

CHAPTER n. 

ITATIOKAL SISTSTIC USAGES. 

Influenee of abundant food — Progress of mankind in providing suitable 
aliment — Pastoral life — ^Agriculture — Superiority of countries which arc 
the best cultivated — ^Abundance a protection against pestilence — Services 
rendei'ed by the Romans to European horticulture — ^When was the flesh 
of animals first used — Comparison between the feeders on flesh and fish, 
and those on vegetables — ^Influence of climate — Majority of mankind sub- 
sist on vegetable substances alone— Dietetic regimen of the ancient Greeks 
— ^Athenians and Spartans— Of the ancient Romans. - - - 33 

CHAPTER III. 

ITATIOKAI. DIETETIC USAGES {continued). 

Depopulation and deficient supply of food in Europe in the middle ages 
— Diet of the people of the East — ^Egypt — Nubia and Abyssinia — ^The 
brinde of the Abyssinians — Persia — The Arabs — their temperate regimen 
— Hindostan, universal use of rice in — ^I'he Chinese — their general use of 
vegetable regimen — the Japanese — ^The people of the East India Archipe- 
lago — their simple food — Addiction to narcotic stimulants — People of 
Northern Asia — The Tartars and Siberians — their use of animal ft)od, 
particularly horse flesh — their koumiaa — Limited supply of food among 
the Siberians— their excessive use of tobacco — £uro[>e, its advantages over 
Asia— Norway and Sweden — food used iu — Intemperance among the 



yGoogk 



X COHTBNTS. 

people— Deomark, the like itate of things in— HoUmmI— food and diitil- 
leriet — Gemmoj» lam eonMmption of twine i n - Ge rman breweries and 
disdUeriet—ttossia— Poland. •••••.. S5 

CHAPTEB IV. 

VATIOVAL DIITKTIC VSAOIl (C9fllmtff<f). 

Franee — ^poor diet of the miyoritj of the people in — ^Intemperanee in 
France — ^Amount of her alimentanr Tegetable prodaets— of animals used 
for food^^witzerland — Geneva — Food of the Swiss workmen in cities, 
and labourers in the country — ^Italy — Diet of the people of Piedmont, — 
SaTC^y. — ^Tuscany — Chestnut bread largely used by the Italians — Spain, — 
subsistence of the people in — ^Their temperance— Portuguese — Recapitu- 
lation — European Turkey — Greece — ^The Morea— Great Britain — Food 
used by the people of England — by those of Scotland and of Ireland — ^In- 
temperance in all — United States — Abundant alimentarjr products of — 
Slave population — their food — Animal food — chief varieties used by the 
people-— Comparison between the United States, and France and Great 
Britain — Chief kind of grain — ^wheat and maize for bread — ^potatoes— rye 
—Parley — buckwheat — oats — rice — ^The products of the dainr — ^Excessive 
alimentation of the working people — Great eaters and fast eaters — 
Smoking and chewing tobacco — Use of intoxicating drinks — Uiet of the 
people of Mexico — of Venezuela — of La Plata— ^ Brazil — Spirituous 
liquors used largely by the Indian population in those countries. - T7 

CHAPTER V. 

YEOSTABLl FOOD. 

Proximate nutritive principles of vegetables — Gluten^Vegelable albu- 
men-starch — Gum and mucilage — Yeast — ^Sugar— Oil. Fai'inaceoua 
seeds — the Ceeealia. Their composition — Proportion of gluten, starch, 
Sec. in each of them— Predominance of starch in grains, legumes and po- 
tatoes, cassava, &c — ^Dietetic hints from a knowledge of these proximate 
principles-- Variety with simplicitv — Bice, its region — Supports more 
people than any other of the cerealia— Maize, its geographical range- 
Large consumption of in America— Wheat, its native region — Importance 
— c£iantity grown and consumed in Great Britain, France, and the United 
States — ^Rye— its range— Most abundant in northern countries — ^Is the 
bread-corn of the people of northern Europe, Germany, and part of 
France — ^Barley — ^Its antiquity — Consumption of, in malt liquors— Ab- 
straction of food by this means— Oats— a northern grain— largely used by 
the people of Scotland and Ireland — also of France-— Is used in distillation 
— Buckwheat — Used in parts of Germany, America and France. - 102 

CHAPTER VL 
TxesTABLZ POOD [cwniiwued), 

Dijfereni methodt fir preparing the CereaHa fir ybo<l— Bread from 
wheat the best and most nutritive— Goo<l bread denned— Effects of the ad- 
dition of yeast— Fermentation owing to the sugar — Formation of carbonic 
and acetic acids and alaohol— this fast in small quantity and soon evapo- 
rated — Articles added to remove acidity of bread — Other articles — Alum 
—means of detecting it — ^Blue vitriol, its effects on tlie dough — means of 
detecting it — Salt, its use^Potatoes and potato starch mixed with wheat 
flour— I>eCails of trials and experiments on this subject in Franee-^ovs^ 



yGoogk 



CONTENTS. XI 

.'•p— R-, 

added to wheat floar — Proportion of floar to bread — Ginger-bread— R3re 
bread — Mixture of rye and wheat to make bread— Rye-mush— Barley— 
barley-floar, and barley-water — Oat^meal, its Tarious U8e»^gmel from— 
Riee, its advantages as an article of food—- use of in disease— preparations 
of— Maize — bread fi*om — gruel— Buckwheat — mixture of with barley and 
rye. 131 

CHAPTER Vn. 

TXGSTABI.B FOOD. 

LsBUMiirous Seeds, or Puxbe. Their chemical composition, and highly 
nutritive properties. The Pea— its extensive use in Europe and consump- 
tion by some of the people of England — ^Its culture and use in the EUist— 
Hindostan, and in Egypt — ^I'he Chick Pea — ^The Bean, its use in Egypt, 
Europe, and West Indies — The Kidney Bean — a native of India — Fricolis 
larrely used in Mexico — Kinds eaten in Africa — Lentils, large use of in 
Ca&olic countries — Potato— its American origin, extended cultivation in 
Ireland, Great Britain, and other parts of the world — ^Relative proportion 
of nutriment in wheat and potatoes — ^Abundant population where the potato 
is the staple food — Quantity consumed in Great Britain and in the United 
States — Sweet potato — Yam — its mode of cultivation, and preparation' for 
fpod — Cassava — its preparalion-^lar^ly used for food — ^Tapioca — Succu- 
lent roots — ^Turnip— Carrot — Parsnip— Sker ret — Beet — Mangel Wurzel 
—Proximate principles in each of these roots — Salep — its nutritive proper- 
ties—combination with wheat flour — Arrow root — its varieties and uses — 
Brszilian arrow root — Sago— its preparation and extensive use as food — 
Mosses— nutritive and gelatinous — varieties of and their uses. - 154 

CHAPTER Vm. 

TBOETABLE FOOD — ^FRUITS. 

Other proximate principles in plants— Acids — Acetic, citric, roalic, tar- 
taric, &c. — ^Extimctive matter — Lignin. Fndta — ^Bread-fruit, the staple 
aliment in Polynesia — Modes of its preparation — ^Transplanted to the West 
Indies — ^Baobab or murkey bread — its juice highlv nutritive. Plantain and 
Banana — its extreme abundance in Mexico and in the West Indies — its 
alimentary value — Cocoa-nut — its many uses. Date— its various dietetic 
uses — highly prized bj the Arabs — Date paste — ^Arabian Cookery— Anec- 
dote. — Cacao, the basis of chocolate — its extensive cultivation in Caraccas 
and Guayaquil — Amount of consumed in Europe— Analysis of cacao 
kernel— Chestnut — its meal made into bread, in parts of France and Italy— 
also in Polynesia. Fig — its native country — was much used in Syria and 
Palestine — is mwn in Spain and Portugal, also in Asia Minor — Might be 
largely in the United States — Dried figs exported from Smyrna — Figs are 
grown in England — Caprification — Olive — its oil the nutritive part — Ex- 
tensive use o^Palm oil — ^Walnut oil. . ■ - - - 187 

CHAPTER IX. 

SUOAB — 6BAPES. 

Sugar — Sugar-cane, its extension westward — Manufacture of sugar-^ 
Raw and refined sugat — Sugar from beet-root— from the sugar-maple — 
Quantity of sugar in the markets of the world— General use of sugai— Its 



yGoogk 



Xii OOKTKHTS. 

alimentary Talae^Hooey— Its qoaKtiei — Repatatioii in aneient 
fiiblieal reference! to it — Grapes — Extent of enUlvation of the 
Franee ehief vine-growing country-— Qaantitj oTirine made in France and 
o^nsamed by the people---Condition of the people in the Tine diatriets— 
Vie of grapes as aliment and for refreshroent~Abandanee and size of 
grapes in Palestine and Upper India — Grapes in England and the United 
Sutes. 210 

CHAPTER X. 



Raisins-^varieties of, and whence proeured-^uantities imported*— 
Currants. — Pomegranate — its pleasant juice — seeds much used.— Sw^^et 
Orange — its juic&--Orangeade — Seville orange— its rind — Orange flower 
water~-value of the orange trade — Lemon, a modem fruit in Europe- 
Lemon juice, its composition and effects — Lemonade as a drink and a^ 
febrifuge. — Citric acid — its nature and uses.— Lime. — Citron. — Shaddock. 
— Melons — their abundance and excellence in Asia and Africa, southern 
Europe and America— varieiies of— Cantelleupe — Caution in use of — Wa- 
ter-melon — its extensive use in U. States — its alleged bad effects^ — Pumpkin 
— Cucumber — large use of, and various fashions of preparing it for table. — 
Apple — its range and varieties, and where most abundant and finest— Mode 
of keeping apples — Produce of the orchards in England, U. States, and 
France — Flavour of the a|iple — with whom disagreeing — Pulp with flour 
makes good bread— Apple jellies and confections. — Pear — its compositioa 
and effects. — Quince — as a preserve, marmelade — Virtues of its seeds.— 
Peach, its excellence and abundance — is palatable and nutritious — ^Dried 
peaches— Deleterious properties of other parts of the peach tree. — Plum. — 
rrunes. — Almond — its kernel the part eaten — Almond oil — the husk to be 
removed from the kernel. — Cherry — its inferior quality in the United 
States — Cherry brandy- — Currant — varieties of. — Gooseberry. — Raspberry. 
— Strawberry.— Cranberry. — Tamarind. ----- 236 

CHAPTER XL 

ANIMAL FOOD. 

Proximate principles of animal matters— Fibrin — Albumen-Gelatin — 
Casein — Osmazome. — Milk, its products and preparations — Alimentary or 
primary staminal principles — ^The aqueous. — Water in all the fluids and 
solids of organized beings, — its universality and use in all the organs-— 
Mixture of staminal principles necessary — Milk, a general aliment, — its 
comiiosition in different animnls — Causes affecting its quantity and quality 
— Milk the only proper food for infants — ^Its occnsionnl mixture with fan* 
naceous substances — Dietetic value of milk — Properties of good and bad 
milk — Additions to milk, for food — Butter, — its composition, preparation, 
and preservation-— Quantity consumed in Great Britain and United States 
—Ghee, the butter in India — Dietetic value of butter — Cheese, — its prepa- 
ration and varieties; large use of— When, and how ]»roper for food.— Egg,— 
its composition, and nutritive properties,— consumption of, in London. 267 

CHAPTER Xn. 

▲irUCAL AlTD VIZED VOOD. 

Division of animal substances of the higher order— The flbrinoat— beef, 
miittoD, pork, duck, fowls, and venison. The gelatinoni— veal, Uoih» 



yGoogk 



GOHTSIITS. Xlll 

yming pooltiy, eertmin fiih— AoiiMl food of a middle natare^Albaminoat 
alimeDt— Modes of preparing meal for the table^Pretervation of meat — 
Salt, an aid to digestion — Its early and general use — Whence procured— 
Quantity consumed in some countries — Beef and pork, the chief meats 
salted— Dry salting and pickling — Quantity of salt meat consumed — Irish 
exports— Salting of fish — Herring and cod salted — large ex|iortations of— 
Alimentary value of salt meats— ^cunry, how avoided- Variety with sim- 
plicity of food — Mixed food — Experiments in Scotland — Advantages of an 
abstinence from animal flesh — Mr. Stephens's experience — Large consump* 
tion of meat not a test of civilization — Proportionate use of meat in Lon- 
don, Paris, Brussels, Glasgow, and Geneva — Portable soup — different 
kinds and preparation of— Mode of preserving meat unchanged for a term 
of years. ----------- S94 



CHAPTEE Xm. 

BUNKS. 

Watek* the basib of all drinks — ^Its importance in organised life— Thirst 
only to be allaved by water, or drinks chiefly watery— Instinct always 
craves water — ^is the only fitting drink —Its restorative powers, — contrasted 
with alcohol — Water of various degrees of purity — Means of clarifyine 
water— Zinc roofs deteriorate water flowing from them — Hippocrates and 
Dr. Gregory's opinion respecting water — conditions adapting it to all per- 
sons, at all times — Temperature, — cold often beneficial — ^Water is nutri- 
mental — Drinks, made of various acids, fruits, &c. added to water — Simple, 
saccharine, ^mmjr, and bitter drinks— Conditions for a drink being salu- 
tary — Tea, Its varieties, — first use In England; — consumption of, at this 
time, in England and United States— Composition and pro|)erties of tea^— 
when it is detrimental. — Coflee, — ^its native country, — different varieties of, 
—amount of its production and consumption, — its first use in France and 
England — ^Is affected by other substances near it— Composition and proper- 
ties of raw and of roasted coffee — Cases in which coffee is beneficial, and 
in which injurious. ........ .518 



CHAPTER XrV. 

ALCOHOUC DRIHK8. 

Alcoholic and intoxicatine drinks,— their sameness and effects — Alcohol, 
a (>oi8on, is not altered by dilution or mixture — ^Illustrations in opium and 
quinine — Different classes of alcoholie drinkers— Alliance between the 
wine-press and the still — ^Wine and spirits, their common origin — ^All 
wines exported are brandied and otherwise adulterated — Claret, — Port, — 
Madeira, — Sherry, — Champalgne — Alcohol a product of fermentation — 
Wine and beer, their alcoholic resemblance — ^Difference in other matters 
—Composition of wine, and of beer — ^Fermented liquors the product of 
elaborate art — ^Vinegar the natural product of the juice of the grape — Spi- 
rits — Alcohol not formed by distillation — Previous formeutation necessary 
—Alcohol procured from wine without distillation — Dietetic value of alco- 
holic liquors — Are injurious to digestion — Do not give strength, nor ability 
to resist atmospheric extremes and exposures — Consumption of alcoholic 
liquors in France — Drunkenness, and its excesses, and diseases, common in 
that eouDtry — Proofs and Illustrations — Consumption of alcoholic liquors 
in Great Britain — ^Deplorable results — Consumption in the United States 
— >Ameodment -»•-•----- 340 



yGoogk 



XrV CONTKNTS. 

CHAPTER XV. 

LOHOBYITT. 

Desire for longevity natural and proper — ^Infliienee of the aged — ^Worth 
and geniQS more influential with length of years— Causes of loneevity — ^In- 
herited predisposition — A good physical education— Great hodfly strengtfi 
not necessary — Average intellectual and moral energy — Sti*ong pasuons a 
draw-back — ^Regularity and temperance— Early rising — Simplicity of diet 
— ^Inherited weakness increased or abated by the mode of life — Climate — 
Specific inquirie^-The influence of »cap— Females attain greater longevity 
than males — Fluctuations, in difierent ages, in the two sexes. ./Ij'e^— In- 
creased mortality in early life — Maximum of vitality— when reached— 
Modifications by climate — ^When suicide is most firequent iloce— Greater 
mortality in the black race. CUmaie and Xoco&'/y— Hot climates not pre- 
ventive or curative of consumption — Acclimation — ^Residence for two or 
three years does not diminish mortality in hot climate*— Difference in 
mortality between town and country. Setuomnnd Temberaiure — Cold 
adverse to vitality, particularly in the young and the old — Extreme heat in 
cities destructive ofiofant life— Suicide, wten most heqncnt-^OccupaUont 
modifying vitality — ^Intemperance the chief morbid agent— Pictures of, in 
France and En|landr— Military life adverse to longevity — ^Vaceinatioii— In- 
sanity— Mortality in different nations. ..... 377 



yGoogk 



REGIMEN 

AND 

LONGEVITY. 



CHAPTER I. 

PUBLIC HYGIENE. 

Connection between health and longevity, and pei^sonal enjoyment and 
prolonged mtofuIneM — Their importance admitted in all aystenia of 
legislation— Mosaic — Mohammedan — Greek, and Roman— Liberty 
fayourablo to national health — Examples derived from Palestine, 
Greece, Italy, Holland — Christian civilization has increased the mean 
duration of life — Illustrations drawn from Geneva — Mean duration 
of life — Probability of life. — ^Reference to ancient Rome — Ancient and 
modern France contrasted — Also, Great Britain and Russia— Not 
to confound ingrafted vices with civilization itself— The social and 
selfish enjoyments in harmony with general and individual health- 
Malign influence of war on health. 

The preservation of his bealthyand the attainment for 
himself of longevity, are objects of desire to every man; 
no matter in what age or country his lot is cast, nor by 
what arbitrary tenure he holds his life. They are the 
wish of the master and the slave, of the illiterate and 
the learned, of the timid Hindoo and the warlike Arab, 
of the native of New Zealand not less than the inhabit 
tant of New England. An indispensable condition for 
the greatest and longest enjoyment of the senses and pro- 
pensities, for the widest range and exercise of inteUed 
and gratification of the sentiments, whether these be 
2 



yGoogk 



14 PUBllC HYGIENE. 

lofty or ignoble, health, in an especial degree, has ever 
been a fit subject of contemplation and instruction by 
the philosopher and legislator. Their advice and edicts 
on the means of preserving it have frequently been en- 
forced as a part of religious duty; and, at all times, 
civilization, even in its elementary forms, has been 
marked by laws on this head. With the numerous 
and minute hygienic enactments of the great Jewish 
lawgiver, for the guidance of the people of Israel, 
we are all familiar. Prompted, we may suppose, in 
part by the example of Moses, and, also, by considera- 
tions growing out of the nature of the climate in 
which he lived, Mohammed incorporated, with the 
mingled reveries, ethics, and blasphemies which com- 
pose his Koran, dietetic rules and observances of regi- 
men, that are, to this day, implicitly obeyed by his 
zealous followers. In such a climate as that of Arabia, 
Syria, and the adjoining countries, can we doubt of the 
wisdom of that part of his code of health which pro- 
hibited the eating of gross animal flesh, such as that 
of swine, and the drinking of wine. His injunction, to 
practice repeated ablutions daily, is generally known: 
and future reward was promised to him, who erected 
a fountain by the way-side, or otherwise secured the 
means for the traveller in the desert to slake his thirst 
with pure water. Can we put in advantageous con- 
trast with this recommendation, the practice so com- 
mon, and until lately so universal, in nearly all Christian 
lands, of erecting houses by the way-side, at which the 
traveller, even when not impelled by depraved ap- 
petite, still felt himself under a kind of compulsory 
obligation to drink of a liquid poison — ardent spirits, 
whose alcoholic fire is but imperfectly mitigated with 
water? 



yGoogk 



SALUTARY LAWS IN GRSKGK, ETC. l§ 

The Greek and Roman legislators prized too highly 
the lives of the citizens of their respective states, to 
neglect laws for the preservation of the public health. 
Solon, by one of his enactments, forbade the ex- 
portation of any of the products of the soil, except oil 
— that being in excess, and to be spared, without en- 
dangering an adequate supply of food to the people. 
There were other laws, regulating entertainments, one 
clause of which directed that none but mixed or diluted 
wines should be drunk at banquets; the Areopagites 
were, also, required to take cognizance of all drunkards. 
Agriculture, the necessary support of a flourishing state, 
was invested with a religious character by the Athe- 
nians, whose worship of its deities was constant and 
imposing. The festival in honour of Ceres, in her 
double capacitpof introducer of the cultivation of grain, 
and as the first who taught mankind the use of laws, 
was celebrated with peculiar splendour, for a term of 
three days, in Athens, and in most of the Grecian cities. 

In Sparta, the education of the children, which was 
principally directed to secure to them health and robust- 
ness of frame, and their necessary concomitant tem- 
perance, was made an afiair of the state, with whose 
regulations no false tenderness of parents was allowed 
to interfere. In recording this fact, I do not mean, 
however, to applaud the details of Spartan education; 
but merely to point out the importance which Ly- 
curgus, and the government after him, attached to the 
health of the people. Gymnasia originated with the 
Lacedemonians, but were general in all the Grecian 
states. In these, the youth were trained, by various 
exercises of strength and agility, to manly vigour and 
endurance of the fatigues and perils of war; but it 
should not be forgotten, that the most celebrated 



yGoogk 



16 PUBLIC HYOI^NE. 

gymnasia of Athens — the Lyceum, the Academy, and 
Cynosarges — were severally illustrated and made me- 
morable by the lessons of Aristotle, Plato, and Antis- 
thenes. It was thus that the same youth, who had 
exercised their bodies at wrestling, running, and throw- 
ing the quoit, could acquire immediately afterwards 
scope and variety of thought, in listening to their 
teachers of philosophy and ethics. 

Rome, however barbarian in her origin, if we can 
still attach any credit to the tradition palmed on us as 
the history of her first period, soon acquired, with the 
arts of the Etruscans, their attention to the public health, 
manifested, to this day, in the aqueducts and remains 
of immense sewers, (particularly the Cloaca Maxima). 
The profuse supply of water, by means of the aque- 
ducts, enabled the citizens, not only to gratify all the 
wants of personal and domestic economy, for drink, 
culinary purposes, and washing, but also to enjoy regu- 
larly a bath, at a cost little more than nominal. Officers 
(IMiles), high in rank, were appointed to take cogni- 
zance of all that could materially affect the public 
health; viz. in the quantity and quality of provisions, 
the price of grain, preservation of the sewers, and regu- 
lation of the public baths, &c. 

Health and longevity are moral and benevolent 
aims, both because they can be fully procured only by 
moral and benevolent means, and because they place it 
more completely in the power of men who enjoy them 
to carry out the practical lessons of morality and be- 
nevolence, for the greatest good of the greatest number, 
during the longest time. The remark is as applicable 
to communities as to individuals, to a government as to 
a whole people. Public and private industry, equal 
and beneficent laws, by which every citizen is pro- 



yGoogk 



CONNECTION BETWEEN HEALTH AND MORALS. 17 

tected in the enjoyment of the product of his legitimate 
labour, are among the primary conditions for procuring 
these boons. In fact, just so far as men make them- 
selves the agents and exponents of the eternal and im- 
mutable laws of an All-wise Providence, just so far 
will they be successful in their search after health and 
long life. But let it be remembered, that these laws 
are of two classes: the one, which represent the opera- 
tions of external agents, in the air and on the earth, on 
the human frame; the other, of the working of the 
mind, in the display of its propensities, its sentiments 
and its intellect. Between these two classes of laws, 
both of them laid down by the Creator of all, there is 
a never-ceasing connection and harmony. No man, 
who properly directs, for his health, the operation of the 
air by which he Is surrounded, and increases the nutri- 
tive products of the earth on which he lives, can therein 
do a vicious act; no man, who conforms to the lessons 
of pure morality and religion, can conflict with sound 
principles of hygiene. So, on the other hand, we can- * 
not but admit, that he infringes on the moral code who 
voluntarily injures either his own health or his neigh- 
bour's; and that there must be something wrong in the 
religious dogmas of him, whose persuasions and prac- 
tice are adverse to the general health, or to principles, 
the application of which conflicts with the health of the 
greatest number. 

Countries once healthy and well governed have, by 
a change of rulers, become the very reverse. Need 
we search for a stronger and more melancholy proof of 
this assertion, than in the altered features of Palestine? 
Once flowing with milk and honey, its soil yielding 
grain and fruits adequate to the wants and enjoyments 
of a crowded population, this doomed land is no\r 



yGoogk 



18 PUBLIC HTOliHB. 

almost a desert, over which roam the lawless Arabs; 
whilst the holy city, in decay, is governed by a few 
insolent Turkish soldiers. 

It has been well said, "that general •health is incon- 
sistent with extreme servitude/' Greece, with the loss 
of her ancient liberty and the ruin of her flourishing 
cities, exhibits an altered climate, which her modem 
renovation under the auspiees of freedom may again 
restore. Spots that were once decorated with tem- 
ples and groves to Hygeia and ^sculapius, are now 
shunned as seats of disease. In Italy, the changes 
have been equally melancholy. Latium, with her 
hundred cities, is now almost a waste, (the present 
Cnmpagna di Roma) and is so thinly tenanted as 
barely to suffice for the imperfect cultivation of some 
spots in grain — the reapers of which becoming sick, in 
large numbers find a refuge, and many meet their 
death also, in the great hospital at Rome. Ostia, 
once a flourishing city, and the seaport of Rome, has 
* now but a few miserable houses; and Ardea, which 
at one period was able to resist Rome herself, and 
to send out colonies, has now a population of only 
six hundred inhabitants. How changed the fate of 
Magna Graecia, now a part of the kingdom of Na- 
ples, to whose people Rome herself was indebted 
for the elements of science and the budding of her 
poetry! How few and melancholy the remains of the 
numerous cities and noble buildings that adorned the 
coast of the Tyrrhaean sea; and in which Pythagoras 
taught the lessons of wisdom, and orators dazzled by 
the splendour of their eloquence! The once flourishing 
PsBstum, a residence of the Sybarites, enriched by 
foreign commerce, and embellished by all that art and 
luxury could devise, was, for a time, after its decay and 



yGoogk 



SUCCJBSSIYB CHANGES IH ITALT. 19 

devastation by Saracens and Normans^ totally lost to 
the world. Its discovery only presented the remains of 
three ruined edifices, with no sound in or around 
them, save the dashing of the waves against the desert 
shore, or the rustUng of lizards through the branches 
which intertwine their columns and cover their floors; 
or, it may be, the flight of birds which occasionally nestle 
in their ruined pediments. All is desolation! All 
breathes pestilence! 

Taking history as our guide, we discover four dis- 
tinct periods, during which the face of Italy, and 
in degree its climate, have undergone great changes; 
CK>nsequent on and commensurate with the difierence 
in the government, and the industry and the intelli- 
gence of the people. In the first, Etruria, Latium 
and Magna Graecia exhibited the pleasmg aspect of 
hundreds of cities, with a rich and thriving popula- 
tion, refined by arts, and united, at least many of them, 
under imperfect systems of federative government. — 
Agriculture supported a numerous population, and com- 
merce introduced wealth and the elegancies of life, of 
which the museums of Europe contain valid proofs at 
this day, in their numerous vases, urns, &c. Subju- 
gated by the less polished but more warlike Romans, 
these countries underwent a change, dependent on their 
loss of liberty. Their cities fell into decay; their rural 
population was diminished. Again, however, when 
the Romans became the masters of Italy, and were 
freed from the fear of wars near home, industry was 
successfully directed to agriculture; and, to a certain 
extent, the old cities were replaced, or their difiu- 
sive influence partly supplied by Roman colonies. 
During this second period, the country was like an 
extensive garden, and, consequently, healthy. A sad 



yGoogk 



20 PUBLIC HTOliNS. 

reverse to this picture was presented in the third pe- 
riod, when, after the repeated incursions of barbarian 
conquerors and despoiiers, and the final dismember- 
ment of the empire, her cities and villas were sacked 
and burned, her fields and vineyards laid waste, and 
her population diminished by wars, famine and pesti- 
lence. To such a decree of ruin did these causes 
operate, that, as we learn from the accurate and learned 
Muratori, in the eighth century a considerable part of 
Italy was covered with forests and marshes of great 
extent, and infested with wolves and other wild beasts. 
The last period, beginning with the revival of letters 
and commerce and improvement in agriculture, and 
coming down to the present time, shows a great im- 
provement in the state of the country: districts are 
now in a high state of cultivation that, in the middle 
ages, were abandoned, but which, prior to that time had ^ 
been, as ancient writers represent, very fertile. 

Other countries present similar examples to those just 
related, of desolation produced by the same causes. 
Africa has not recovered from the devastating shock oc- 
casioned by the invasion of the Vandals, and the wars 
between them and Belisarius, in the reign of Justinian, 
in which, if we believe the testimony of Procopius, a 
contemporary writer, not less than five millions of per- 
sons lost their lives. 

In the history of Holland, the ancient Batavia, we 
see a remarkable example of the power which a people, 
when sustained by freedom and stimulated by their 
very necessities, can exert over the most discouraging 
impediments of situation and climate. Inhabitants of 
a barren soil, almost immerged in water, and with an 
incumbent atmosphere, the most unfriendly to human 
comfort, the Hollanders, so far from retiring before the 



yGoogk 



INCREA8JBD DU&ATIOM OF LIFE. SI 

encroachments of the ocean, erect barriers to restrain 
its fury, give new channels to their rivers, drain by 
numerous canals their morasses, and convert as it were, 
the elements which seemed to be the means of destruc- 
tion, into so many sources of wealth. But, take from 
Holland her free institutions, and from her people the 
conviction that the profits of their labours are not to be 
diverted to the gratification of the wants and extrava- 
gances of domestic tyrants, or to minister to the aggran- 
dizement of foreigners, and, ere long, her dikes will 
be in decay, and the waters of the ocean and of the 
rivers overspread her land; poverty will replace wealth, 
and disease everywhere stalk about in place of the 
vigorous health, ^hich is now the admiration of the 
traveller* 

In presenting these historical examples of the connec- 
tion between good government and social order on the 
one hand, and health and longevity on the other, my 
object has been to fix the attention on the principle 
involved. Its confirmation is now placed beyond all 
doubt, by the results of numerical calculations, of the 
relative age of persons, in the same countries, and in 
the same city, at difierent and remote periods. We learn 
from those calculations, that with the diffusion of intel- 
ligence based on Christian ethics, and a better, though 
still very imperfect practice of the Christian virtues, in 
states and communities, and with a greater security of 
property and person, more certain returns to industry 
in agriculture, commerce and the arts, better protection 
against the vicissitudes of weather, and more abundant, 
and better food than in former times, the average dura- 
tion of life is greater now, in nearly all civilized coun- 
tries, than in any antecedent period in the history of the 
world. In the same country, if there is a difference in 



yGoogk 



22 PUBLIC HTGlilNE. 

the longevity, or in the mean duration of the life of cer- 
tain portions or classes of the people, the advantage 
will be found entirely on the side of those who enjoy 
the greatest comforts, who are better lodged and clothed, 
and better fed, and whose instruction and moral culture 
are more advanced than the others. Indigence, an evi- 
dence of unhappiness, is itself a measure of short life, 
just as wealth with its accompaniments, if assumed as an 
evidence of happiness, becomes a measure of longer life. 
So, conversely, when we meet with a people or a com- 
munity possessing abundance, we infer that they will 
enjoy, in the mass, longer lives than another people, 
or even adjoining community, whose means of support 
are narrow, and inadequate to the gratification of their 
reasonable wants. It may comport with the fictions of 
poetry to speak of the hardy and contented poor man, 
and of his exemption from the diseases of the wealthy 
and luxurious; but, in sober fact, he is a, greater and more 
frequent sufferer from disease, and has a shorter tenure 
of life, than his wealthier neighbour. — ^A comparison of 
this nature, on a large scale, based on numerical calcu- 
lation, has been made by M. Villermfe, for France, by 
which it appears, that in the entire population of that 
country human life is prolonged twelve years and a 
half among the wealthy beyond its duration among the 
poor; the mean duration for the former being forty-two 
and a half years, for the other only thirty years. 

The influence of progressive civilization, in increasing 
the average duration of human life, has been exhibited 
of late years by a number of tables of vital statistics. 
It will be sufficient for my present purpose to introduce 
in this place, the results of one or two of them — as I 
shall return to the subject, when I come to treat express- 
ly of longevity. I may mention now for the informal' 



yGoogk 



DURATION OF LIFS IN GENEVA. 83 

tioQ.of the reader^ that when the terms ^< mean duration 
of life'^ are used^ we are to understand the mean or 
average of the number of years which any definite 
number of persons live. Thus, if we note the duration 
of life in each, of a thousand individuals, and divide the 
sum total of these ages by a thousand, we have the figures 
indicating the mean average duration of life, or the ex- 
pectation of life in these thousand persons. This does 
cot afibrd a measure of the longevity to which some of 
them may have attained, for in a thousand persons, some 
of whom have passed their ninetieth year for example, 
the mean duration may be smaller than in another list, 
none of whom have gone beyond their seventieth yeay. 
The mean duration of life is an evidence of the condi- 
tion and prospects of the masses; and as such it affords 
a measure of their progressive improvement, or of 
their deterioration. 

In the city of Geneva, of whose population, births and 
deaths, an accurate account has been kept for nearly 
the three last centuries, or since 1560, we find a striking 
illustration of the principle already laid down, viz: 
the ameliorating influence of civilization in prolonging 
human life among a people. It appears, from a series of 
historical and statistical researches made by M. Mallet,* 
that in Geneva, the mean duration of the lives of the 
citizens of that republic, from 1560 to 1600, was twenty- 
one years and two months; I omit the days. In the 
seventeenth century, or from 1600 to 1700, the mean 
life was twenty-five years, nine months; and during the 
period from 1701 to 1760, it had increased to thirty- two 
years, nine months. This estimate of M. Mallet, strongly 
as it marks the difference in the duration of human 
life, in the above periods, is below that of some pre- 

* Annales d'Hygiene et de Medecine Legale, torn. xvii. 



yGoogk 



24 PUBLIC HTOIlgKE. 

ceding writers^ who did not make allowances for certain 
defects and omissions^ which he points out, in the offi«- 
cial tables. In 1833, the mean duration of life for the 
people of Geneva was forty years and five months; 
being nearly twice as long as it was rather more than 
two centuries before. 

If we were to take the probable life of the people of 
Geneva, as explained by M. Mallet, the contrast be- 
tween their past and their present condition, as regards 
a greater and more diffused enjoyment of all the 
means of supporting and prolonging Ufe, will be still 
more evident. By probable life, or the probability of 
lifey M. Mallet and other continental writers under- 
stand, the chances of a person reaching a certain year 
of age, anterior to which one-half of a given num- 
ber of those born at the same time with himself have 
died. Thus, of a thousand persons bom in a given year, 
and place, if one half of them die by the expiration of 
thirty years, — this will be the period of the probable 
life of the whole number, as the chances or probabili- 
ties were equal, that any one of the original num- 
ber at birth, would die before, or might live to pass this 
limit of thirty years. Or, we may take a given number 
of persons at any age, say five years or ten years, and 
note at what age the number decreases to one^alf; then 
the age at which they so come to one-half is called the 
probable duration or term of life. Calculations made on 
this basis by M. Mallet show, that towards the end of 
the sixteenth century, the probable duration of life fox 
the people of Geneva was only eight years, seven 
months. In the seventeenth century it was thirteen 
years, and three months; in the first half of the eight* 
eenth century, or from 1701 to 1750, it was twenty-seven 
years and nine months; between 1751 to 1800, tfairty- 



yGoogk 



MEAN DURATIOK IIT BOMS. 85 

one years, three months. From 1801 to 1813, the 
probable term of life had reached forty years, eight 
months, and in the twenty years, from 1814 to 1833, it 
was as high as forty-five years, one month* Thus 
we learn from the preceding proportions that the proba- 
bility of life at this time in Geneva, is five-fold greater 
than it was not quite three centuries ago. 

If we wish to compare the mean duration of life 
in modern with that in ancient times we want the re- 
quisite data, and are left to conjecture. There is only 
one document of an authentic kind recorded by Do- 
mitius tllpianus. Secretary to the Emperor Alexan- 
der Severus, to which any value can be attached. He 
relates, that registers of population, age,, sex, disease, 
and death, had been kept by the census from the time 
of Servius TuUius to Justinian, which includes a 
period of a thousand years. But it is most probable, 
that the citizens only of Rome were included in these 
registers, and not the servile class, which made up a 
lai^e part of the population. The document of Ulpi* 
anus, containing an estimate of the probable term of life 
from and after any given age, is introduced by Dr. 
Southwood Smith in his, Philosophy of Healthy p. 132. 
The conclusion from it, admitted by Dr. S. and others, 
is, that the probable duration of life in Rome among the 
better classes was thirty years. Were we to take cor- 
responding classes in Great Britain at the present time, 
such as annuitants, we should, on the authority of Mr. 
Finlayson, estimate the mean duration of life among 
them to be jstbove fifty years. The expectation or 
mean duration of life for the whole .of the people of 
Great Britain is forty-five years, which would give them 
an advantage over the Roman citizens in the time of 
Ulpianus, or three hundred years after Christ, of fifteen 
3 



yGoogk 



2^ PUBLIC HTOliNB. 

years. In France the mean duration of life in the 
classes more comfortably situated, is forty-two years, or 
twelve more than the people of Rome in corresponding 
circumstances. 

The shorter the mean duration of life or the mean 
life of a people or community , the greater the number of 
persons who die in a givem period; that is, the greater will 
be the mortality. The rate then of mortality will give a 
measure of the means of support, and of the extent of 
the operation of causes influencing life. In times of 
barbarism, the proportion of deaths anntially to the ex- 
isting population is by far more than in a state of higher 
civilization — protection of person and property, and 
an improved and permanent agriculture. 

To place in strong contrast the state of things in this 
respect, it will be sufficient to quote the difference in tho 
rate of mortality in one city, Paris for exanq)le, in the 
period in which the people were just emerging from bar- 
barism, and at the present day. We learn from a 
calculation made by M. Villerm^, from a manuscript 
of the fourteenth century, that the mortality of Paris, at 
that period, was 1 in 16. At the present time, the 
average mortality, even in the very poorest arron- 
dissement, in which poverty and destitution are extreme, 
is 1 in 24. So that the rate of mortality in all Paris, 
rich and poor, high and low, was greater by far in the 
fourteenth century than m the poorest and most 
wretched district in the same capital in the nineteenth 
century. 

If we take two countries at the present time, Russia 
and Great Britain, the contrast, depending on similar 
causes, — semi-barbarism in much of the former, and 
civilization so operative in the latter, — will be equally 
obvious. The rate of mortality in Russia is I in 27; in 



yGoogk 



CIVILIZATIOV AFWmCTVXQ LIFB. 27 

Great Britain, 1 in 43.7,* neariy 44. In France it is 1 in 
39.7, or almost 40; in Geneva, neariy 1 in 47, (46.92.) 
In the eighteenth centnry the rate of mortality in Genera 
was 1 in 34; in the sixteenth I in 25; fresh proof this of 
the benign effects of progressive civilization on Ufe. 

In using so frequently the term civilhsation, I must 
suppose that the reader attaches meaning sufficiently 
clear to save the necessity of either an abstract defini- 
tion or a description of its complex nature. It will be 
sufficient in this place, in order to illustrate the position 
already advanced of health being most diffused, and 
the mean of life greater, in proportion as both the moral 
and ph3rsical nature is developed and strengthened, to 
state the basis of civilization and its chief elements, and 
then to make this statement the link between pre* 
ceding remarks, and those which are to follow. The 
basis, or at least the preliminary step and itself a means, 
is congregation in communities of some compactness, 
or in other words a population of some density. But 
this cannot be procured without a full and a regular 
supply of food, itself necessarily the product of a careful 
and protected agriculture. From an adequate produc- 
tion then of food from the soil arises the ability of men 
to form permanently established communities, and 
thence to engage in the exercise of their various facul- 
ties, and to exchange with one another, at first, the 
coarser productions of art, and afterwards, the higher 
and more complicated results of intellect and sentiment 
These are the elements that, according to the- extent 
with which they are worked out, constitute civilization; 
and just in the same proportion to this result, are health 
and length of life inore generally assured. In fact, both 

* Aoeordingr to Mr. Edmunds. 



yGoogk 



2B PUBLIC HYai^NE. 

civilization and health originate from (he same |>riknar3r 
andchief cause, abmidance of food, and both are ex- 
panded and strengthened by the subsequent complex re* 
lations of men to each other, growing out of their ability 
to procure without much difficulty abundant aliment. 

It becomes, therefore, an object of interesting inquiry, 
to point out the geographical distribution of food, and 
espeqially vegetable substances or those that are pro^ 
duced from the soil, as on them mankind mainly depend 
for their support. In doing this, I shall indicate the 
masses of people which' derive their subsistence, for the 
most part, from particular articles of vegetable food, 
glancing at the same time at the impediments to their 
procuring it in adequate quantity, by a perverse use of it 
to other purposes. This last will lead to a notice of the 
transformation of food into other states,for drink, in which 
its nutritive property is either greatly diminished or entire- 
ly lost, and of the effects direct and indirect on the national 
health, if the transformed matter is taken instead of sub* 
stantial aliment by a people or by large masses of them. 

The alimentary habits of a people are the first which 
merit inquiry where we would study either supports of 
health or the causes of disease among them. Popula* 
tion is mainly dependent on those habits: health and 
longevity hardly less so. Next to the study of food 
is that of the air and its varying states, and the. greater 
or less extent of protection against its vicissitudes and 
exemption from its impurity. These are subjects which 
involve a consideration of climate, locality, habitation, 
fuel, and clothing;— and which are alike connected with 
health and with civilization. Climate would at first 
seem to be beyond man's control, but we soon see that 
its primary influences may be, as they are, greatly 
modified by the other circumstances of locality, and in 



yGoogk 



HEALTH AMP BBMSTOUIMCS COMMSCTSD* 89 

a remarkable degree by the kind of faabttation, for red* 
dence and protection from atmospherical vicissitudesi 
and the accompanying aids of clothing and fuel Pro* 
gressive knowledge in all these points put into practice 
constitutes progressive civilization, and presumes an 
increased activity of the intellectual faculties. This 
activity, thus operative and applied, becomes, also, ne- 
cessarily a cause of promoting health concurrently with 
civilization, as the means are conunon to bo^L Need it 
be added, that the intellectual activity developed by the 
better sentiments under moral and religious culture, 
makes the wealthier and more intelligent counsellers 
and guardians to those less fsivourably circumstanced, 
and thus becomes the proper accompaniment of civil- 
ization, and indeed necessary for its completion. The 
direction of these sentiments, it may be not unmixed 
with some selfish considerations, to the improvement 
of waste and marshy land, the ventilation of streets, 
and improved methods of rural and domestic economy, 
of course contributes powerfully at the same time to 
promote the general health. Happily, indeed, whilst all 
the affections, personal as well as social, contribute to 
health, their manifestation is not left to the capricious 
volition of the person or party on whom more im« 
mediately devolves the duty. The wrong of omission 
is visited upon both patties. If, for example, a mother 
refuse to yield to the promptings of maternal instinct, 
and fail to nurse her child, the latter is not the only suf- 
ferer in health;— she herself becomes liable to infirmi* 
ties, if she is not immediately afflicted with them. The 
owner of a fine mansion surrounded with gardens and 
park, and possessed of all that can embellish material 
life, must, even from considerations of a purely selfish 
nature, attend to the state of his poorer neighbours and 

3* 



yGoogk 



80 PUBLIC HreiiNE. 

dependents, if they reside in low and marshy grounds, 
liable to be overflowed by the very stream, the falls of 
which constitute one of the ornaments of his domain* 
Even were he not impelled by benevolence or pecuniary 
interests, a regard to his own health and that of his 
immediate family would induce him to recommend 
and aid these people to drain and cultivate lands. 
Which, if left uncultivated, would deteriorate the air, 
and be productive of disease, both harassing and dan- 
gerous. So, also, the rich inhabitants of elegant houses 
and wide and well paved streets have a positive and 
direct interest in the state and condition of their poorer 
fellow-citizens in contiguous courts and alleys. Accu- 
mulations of filth and offals in these latter, and destitu- 
tion from want of food, fuel, and clothing of their ten- 
ants, may readily generate a mortal and malignant 
disease, the attacks of which, though pressing most 
heavily on the poor, are not harmless to thdir richer 
neighbours. In proportion as civilization advances and 
the relations of men to each other become multiplied 
and complex, a more methodical and continued atten- 
tion is paid to all suitable measures, calculated to pre- 
vent the injurious operation on the public health of 
personal or local impurity and taint. Whilst the poor 
are aided, and the unfortunate encouraged to renewed 
trials, the thriftless and the vicious are restrained from 
practices which would injure the health of others. The 
combination of benevolence and intelligence in this 
way, manifests itself in a public manner in the enact- 
ment and enforcement of sanitary laws, which, although 
they are at times inefficient and founded on error, are^ 
in the main, evidences of civilization, that look to a 
still farther amelioration of existing ills. 
In the preceding repiarks, no pretension is made to 



yGoogk 



HYOI^NIO TEST OF. CIVILIZATION. 31 

novelty of view, to those who have made the 8nbj6:t 
either of political economy or of the philosophy of 
health and longevity their study. But aware of my 
own feelings of surprise, when I first heard of the won- 
derful effects of civilization on health, and of my vague 
notions of the ndture of the connection between the 
two, I have thought that it would not be amiss to ana* 
lyze the question, for the benefit of many of my read* 
ers, who might otherwise look on civilization as a mere 
abstract idea, or as a mystical expression of the social 
combinations of men, and of all their follies, vices, and 
mad contradictions, as well as of their virtues, and in* 
telligence. Looking at civilization in its elements and 
combinations, we are bound to reject the vicious and 
the absurd as foreign to it, or at least, as fungous growths 
and excrescences from, but not an integral part of it. This 
is the high moral and religious test by which civiliza- 
tion should be tried. The physical or the hygienic test, 
that of man's health and longevity, is precisely to the 
same purport: — and unless morals and religion and pub- 
lic and individual health are all made progressive, and 
afibrd each other reciprocal support, civilization is retro- 
grading, its impulses are erroneous, and its elements 
wrongly combined. Do we require an example on a 
large scale, by which we can at once assure ourselves of 
the accuracy of the principle now laid down, we need 
but mention war. In war between nations, the people 
are thrown back towards barbarism, by the ascendancy 
of the impulses of destructive courage over the better 
sentiments; and if the intellect manifests activity, it is 
chiefly under these impulses. The entire state of things 
is antagonist to civilization and to religion: it is emi- 
nently so to health and life. Great as is the loss of life 
in the field of battle, greater still is it in the series of 



yGoogk 



32 PUBtIC HYOI^NS. 

measures and movements undertaken to procuie a bat* 
tie. The long and exhausting march, encampment in 
sickly situations, the exposed bivouac, imperfect supply, 
and often deficiency of food, alternating with intempe- 
rance of all kinds, and the wildest excesses, — these are 
causes of ruined health, and of loss of life far more nume* 
rous, and collectively more powerful than artillery, and 
the sword and all the destructive missiles and ma- 
chinery of battle. But this is not all — Industry suffers 
at home by the withdrawal of labourers from the field 
for the army, and it suflers abroad by the devastations 
committed, — crops destroyed, granaries rifled by these 
same men in hostile march through an enemy's coun- 
try — Famine and disease are thus often left to tell that 
armies have traversed a country, and fought in it. Nor 
does the injury to health cease even with the return of 
peace. Habits unfitting men of war for productive in- 
dustry, have been acquired, and idleness, and licen- 
tiousness are continued, until health is irretrievably lost. 
If the curse of war be long entailed on a nation, the 
physical energies of its people may suffer by the loss 
of its finest population, to such a degree that the sue- 
ceeding generation will fall short even of the former 
standard stature, as was the case with the French youth 
drafted for the army after the general peace. In 18)26, 
out of 1,033,422 young men drafted taserve in the armyi 
380,213 were sent back, because they fell short of even 
the diminutive stature of four feet ten inches French. 

We cannot, after these premises, which might be ex- 
tended and illustrated to fill a volume, err in the con- 
clusion, that the practical moralist is, both for bioiself 
and the community, a sound hygienist 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER 11. 

NATIONAL DI£T£TIC USAGES. 

Influence of abundant food^Progress of mankind in providing 
suitable aliment — Pastoral life — Agriculture — Superiority of coun- 
tries which are the best cultivated — Abundance a protection 
against pestilence— Services rendered by the Romans to European 
horticuUure — When was the flesh of animals first used — Compa* 
rison between the feeders on flesh and fish, and those on vegeta- 
bles — Influence of climate — Majority of mankind subsist on vege- 
table substances alone — Dietetic regimen of the ancient Greeks 
—* Athenians and Spartans— Of the ancient Romans* 

The influence of abundant food, in augmenting popu* 
lation, and preserving health, and of a deficient supply 
in shortening life, and bringing on widespreading dis- 
eases, is now generally admitted. Wherever there's a 
loaf added there's a man born^ was a metaphorical 
expression of a political economist, which can hardly 
be called exaggeration; at any rate it represents an im- 
portant truth.* The connection between health and 
food is well set forth by a late writer, (M. Melier), by 
his representing in two curved lines, the variations of 
general mortality and the price of bread: these curva- 
tures will be found to correspond in their rise and fall 
with all the fluctuations in these particulars. The in- 
fluence of the dearness of food is observed, however, 
more distinctly in the year next following, than in that 
in which it has occurred. The cpnstant increase in th^ 



yGoogk 



34 NATIONAL DISTETIC U8AOS8. 

population of France is explained, by the progress of 
agriculture, the modifications which the laws relating to 
grain have undergone, and especially by the introduc- 
tion of potatoes. To the extended growth of this last 
vegetable must be attributed the great increase in the 
population of Ireland; and to the abundance of aliment 
of all kinds is due, in good part, the rapid and great 
additions to the population of the United States. 

History records the progressive stages, in which man- 
kind, or at least certain portions of them, have passed, 
before the earth was cultivated in such a manner as to 
yield an abundant and regular supply of vegetables for 
food, and at the same time to support animals, to be ap- 
propriated for the same purpose. Men, we are told, in 
the first stages of society, when it was yet in its sim- 
plest form, and ere communities were organized, lived 
on the fruits, and herbs and roots, which were sponta- 
neously produced, — as if they were acting in con- 
formity with the Divine command to Adam, "And thou 
shalt eat of the herb of the field." From what we 
know of the alimentary habits of the South Sea islanders, 
and the people of some other portions of tropical re- 
gions, we can readily understand with what facility a 
population not over-numerous could subsist on such 
fruits as the plantain, the bread tree, the cocoa and the 
date, and roots like the cassada and the yam, without 
their being addicted to agriculture, or scarcely using 
any tillage. These people, living in a warm chmate, 
would care little for animal food; and it would be easy 
to make the prohibition to use it an article of religion, 
as in the case of the Hindoos. But, it is also equally 
demonstrable, that in more northern latitudes, in which 
the earth was less lavish of nutritive vegetables of 
spontaneous growth, men would be prompted to make 



yGoogk 



riRST USX 07 AlOlf AL roop. 35 

up the deficiency of vegetable, by the addition of animal 
food. 

Under the mixed feelings of hunger and a desire to 
be freed from the alarming proximity, if not direct at- 
tacks of wild beasts, the first inhabitants of the woods 
and wilds would be compelled to engage in the chase. 
It may hare been, that the spectacle exhibited, in a 
stronger pursuing and destroying a weaker animal and 
eating its fiesh, first suggested to man the eating 
of animal food. Be this as it may, it is certain, 
that animal food was and is the chief nutrimental 
support of the wandering savage; and its use is less 
evincive of incipient civilization, than that of vege- 
table food, the product of man's culture of the earth. 
But the gratification of hunger could not be regularly 
met by the pursuit of game, which is so uncertain in its 
amount, and changes its habitation from year to year; 
nor could the chase of it be continued systematically 
by men from whom the discharge of the duties of social 
life was expected. It was necessary, therefore, to do- 
mesticate those animals, the flesh of which experience 
taught to be most nutritive and palatable; euid hap- 
pily for this purpose, those most prized, such as the ox, 
the sheep and pig, were, by their gregarious nature, 
easily reduced to control and superintendence. So, 
likewise, it is worthy of remark, the chief vegetables 
for nutriment are cultivated gregariously in a manner, 
such as wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, potatoes, &c., 
which supply a much greater amount of nutriment than 
the solitary ones, such as the palms, &c. 

To this stage, or the pastoral, succeeded the agricul^ 
tural, in which husbandry was followed, and a me*- 
thodical supply of more nourishing products of the soil 
was procured. These consisted of the leguminous tribe 



yGoogk 



36 KATIOHAL DfSETETlC U8AOB8. 

and the cerealia or grains, which were soon raised in 
such abundance as to allow of a part, not required for 
present subsistence, being stored away for the coming 
winter, and until another harvest had gladdened the 
hopes of the husbandman. From this, the next step 
was easily made — that of exchanging the superfluity of 
one district or country for articles from another less 
fertile or productive. 

The transition from the hunting to the pastoral and agri* 
cultural stage, is not made with any uniformity among 
different people, and by some not at alL The ancient 
Germans, though regarded in the light of barbarians 
by the Romans, a character which in some respects 
they undoubtedly deserved, were abready possessors of 
herds of cattle, and raised grain. Our North American 
Indians, who, by some of the commentators of Tacitus, 
have been compared to the Germans, have never, 
except as half-breeds or under the guidance of half- 
breeds, become either pastoral or agricultural Whe- 
ther conquerors or conquered, they would seem to be 
incapable of attaining to high civilization, because, 
averse to agriculture by which they could produce, or 
to trade and the arts by which they could procure the 
productions of other people, they could never have 
had a large and fixed population, nor a basia for ad- 
vances towards intellectual culture. The Germans, if 
they had been conquered by the Romans would, like 
the Gauls, have received the arts of the victors, as an 
engrafting on their agricultural and pastoral life, just as, 
when they themselves were the conquerors, they were 
not long in adapting themselves, although at first im- 
perfectly, to their new function of masters of the fallen 
empire. 

Contemporaneous with the first addiction to i^ricul- 



yGoogk 



HUNTING AND AaRICULTUBAL INDIANS. 37 

ture by a hitherto savage people, would be the domesti* 
cation of certain animals, and the use of their milk for 
nourishment, and of their wool and hair for clothing* 
Some nomade tribes, such as the Tartars and Arabs, 
have never gone beyond the pastoral stage, or at the 
most, have beeiF content with procuring for them- 
selves by culture, often by barter or pillage, a small 
quantity of grain for bread. Their use of animal food 
is irregular, and more as hospitable treat than for daily 
repetition. 

I just now adverted to the almost entire neglect of 
agriculture by the Indians of North America. But the 
remark is not applicable to the aborigines of Mexico, 
who, even anterior to the conquest by Cortez, formed, 
especially at and around the capital, a dense population, 
which could not have been supported without systema- 
tic culture of the soil. It is probable, however, that 
even then agriculture was in a crude state among the 
Mexicans, as it is at this day among their descendants; 
and that famine, an occasional infliction at the present 
time, was not unfelt in those days. The inhabitants of 
Mexico, as Humboldt informs us, have increased in a 
greater ratio than the means of subsistence; and accord- 
ingly, whenever the crops fall short of the demand, or 
are damaged by drought or other local causes, famine 
ensues. The American Indians, says this writer, natu- 
rally indolent, contented with the smallest quantity of 
food on which life can be supported, and living in a fine 
climate, merely cultivate as much maize, potatoes, or 
wheat as is necessary for their own maintenance, or at 
most, for the additional consumption of the adjacent 
towns and mines. The too nice balance between food 
and population, is more evident in warm climates than 
in less genial ones; in which latter, a more substantial 
4 



yGoogk 



38 MATIOVAL DISTETIC USAOBt. 

aliment is required, and greater paint and indostrjr mnst 
be used to procure habitation and clothing to guard 
against the inclemency of cold. 

No longer compelled to be wanderers linng on acon», 
or, as some allege, chestnuts, hke the first Arcadiatis, 
according to Greek tradition, nor to starch the woods in 
quest of wild peas for food, like the early Argives, draw- 
ing another example from the same quarter, men, once 
bc^me stationary, were inspired with ingenuity to give 
at first comfort, and afterward adornment to their per- 
manent residence. Heretofore, the temporary hut or 
shed in the woods, or cave by the hill-side would have 
been readily abandoned for other imperfect shelters or 
districts in which wild fruits, or roots and herbs were 
more abundant. The superiority of those countries, the 
inhabitants of whi)ch were most successful in agricul- 
ture, soon became obvious; as in the instance of Chaldea 
and Egypt, and in later times, Sicily, the two last of 
which contained a teeming population, remarkable for 
early civilization, and extraordinary progress and refine- 
ment in the arts. In no regioi^ at this day is popula- 
tion so redundant, as in those where vegetable sub- 
stances, the product of the soil, constitute the chief, we 
might say, almost the exclusive food of the people. 
The reader is immediately reminded, by this remark, of 
India and China, and in Europe, of the valley of the Po 
at Lombardy, and Ireland, the latter, an instance nearer 
home, and of more immediate concernment to all, on 
both sides of the Atlantic, who speak the English lan- 
guage. 

With these facts of such moment and magnitude be- 
fore us, we cannot wonder that the pagan Greeks and 
Romans paid divine honours to Ceres, the reputed 
author of an approach towards a more rich and whole- 



yGoogk 



FIE8T AGBICITLTUBAI. N ATIOMS. 89 

some diet, and of the means of procuring a store for all 
seasons of the year, by her teaching to till the groamd 
and sow grain. Little cause shall we have, in the pre* 
sent state of our knowledge, to join in the poetical rhap- 
sodies in favour of the primitive and golden age of the 
poets, which was that of acorn eating, or when, as He* 
siod sang, 

• 

The fields is yet oBtillad, tkeir firoits afford, 
And fill a BomptoouB and imenvied board; 

or admire the people described by Ovid — 

Content with food which nature freely bred. 
On wildinjrs and on strawberriea they fed; 
Comela and bramble-berries gave the rest, 
And falling aeoms famished ont a feast 

But in thus speculating on the probable course and 
order of change of habits among mankind, by which 
they advanced from the savage and nomade, to the 
agricultural and civilized state, we must be supposed to 
refer to those people who were out of the circle, or at a 
distance from the centre of early civilisation. It is quite 
clear, it seems to me, that in the plains of Chaldasa, Noah 
and bis family cultivated the soil after, as they had been 
accustomed to do before, the Deluge; and that the prac- 
tice of agriculture thus resumed, was, ere long, extended 
westward towards the Mediterranean, southward into 
Egypt, and eastward into India and China. From these 
first families and nations of agriculturists, branched off 
the Scythian, the Celtic and the German people into 
Europe, and the Mongul and Tartar nomades into 
Northern Asia. 

In the historical periods of the world, we find uni* 



yGoogk 



40 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

formly, that, in the train of successful agricaltare, 
comes a numerous and healthy population; and, in the 
same country, just in proportion as the soil is suita- 
bly cultivated, will be the general prosperity of the 
people, and their immunity from devastating disease ; so, 
on the other hand, with its neglect come poverty, and 
decay, and pestilence. It was thus with the Roman 
empire, in itd several stages of infancy, maturity, and 
decline. Never was pestilence so rife, nor mankind, 
since the flood, so nearly threatened with extinction, as 
when agriculture was neglected, and the requisite sup- 
ply of vegetable food cut off in consequence, as in the 
reign of Gallienus, and subsequently in that of Jus- 
tinian. The infant republic of Rome was frequently 
affected with famines, caused by wars and faulty and 
deficient agriculture.. In her more triumphant days, 
and under the more flourishing periods of the empire, 
the accidental scarcity in any single province was im- 
mediately relieved by the plenty of its more fortunate 
neighbours. 

Whilst censuring the tyranny and wars of conquest 
of Rome, we ought not to forget, that the agriculture 
of modern Europe is a continuation, improved and en- 
larged it is true, of that introduced by the Romans 
among the conquered people of Spain, Gaul, and Bri- 
tain. "Under the protection of an established govern- 
ment, the productions of happier climates, and the 
industry of more civilized nations were gradually in- 
troduced into the western countries of Europe; and 
the natives were encouraged, by an open and profitable 
commerce, to multiply the former, as well as to improve 
the latter." Gibbon, whose language I have used on 
this occasion, states also the obligations which we are 
under to the Romans for the large and important ad- 



yGoogk 



WHEN ANIMAL FOOD WAS FIB8T XATEN. 41 

ditioDS to horticulture. << Almost all the flowers, the 
herbs, and the fruits, that grow in our European gar-> 
dens/' continues tliis writer, <<are of foreign extraction, 
which in many cases is betrayed even in their names." 
The apricot, the peach, the pomegranate, and the 
orange, together with the oUve, are cited here by the 
historian; also flax and the artificial grasses, par«- 
ticularly Lucerne, which derived its name and origin 
from Media. 

Agriculture cannot be said to be successful in pro*- 
curing the greatest amount of nutritive productions 
from the soil, with the least waste of health and life of 
the people, unless domestic animals be largely used to 
increase mechanical power. In this respect, its state in 
the civilized countries of the world gives encourage* 
ment to the philanthropist. In France, M. Dupin esti* 
mates the effective agricultural power to be five times 
greater by the aid of animals, than if man alone were 
employed. In Great Britain, the gain in this way is 
twelve times more than the mere human bodily force 
which is enlisted. 

The question of the time when mankind first began 
to eat the flesh of animals, has been agitated with con- 
siderable keenness, but more, we believe, as a part of 
biblical criticism than of dietetics. According to one set 
of commentators, the first permisdon by the Deity, for 
man to eat animal food, was that given to Noah in the 
words of Scripture: << Every moving thing that liveth 
shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I 
given you all things.'' Gen. ix. 3. It has been con- 
tended, on the other hand, that the dominion given to 
Adam over the brute creation, (Gen. iL 19,) implies a 
permission to kill animals for food; and that the skins of 
which God made coats for our first parents, shows that 



yGoogk 



49 ITATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

a proper use was taken of such permission. In support 
of the other side of the argument, it has been alleged, 
that the wild and inordinate indulgence in their appe- 
tites and passions, by the Antediluvians, was kept up 
by flesh meats and strong liquors; and that in this way, 
they were incited to the commission of those crimes 
which provoked the Deity to their destruction. Cor- 
roborative analogies have been adduced, in the fact of 
carnivorous animals being the most ferocious and un- 
tameable; and of the greater propensity to hunt and 
kill animals, and eat of their flesh, manifested by sa- 
vage than civilized man. But, in both these instances, 
it seems to h^ve been forgotten, that the propensity is 
anterior to the means of procuring its gratification; 
although the former is no doubt strengthened and made 
fiercer by indulgence. Be this as it may, one thing 
however is certain, that the icthyophagi and people 
who eat much flesh meat, and in greater proportion 
than vegetable food, are less civilized, in every sense of 
the word, than those who derive either the greatei: part 
or all of their aliment from the vegetable kingdom. A 
broader contrast can hardly be furnished, in this re- 
spect, than between the Esquimaux and the Laplander 
•^the first, eaters of seal and walrus, and the second, 
of reindeer — and the Hindoos and Chinese, so many 
millions of whom live exclusively on rice. To the 
same purport, and perhaps more to the point, is the dif* 
ference between the agricultural and phytivorous South 
American and Mexican Indians, and the nomade and 
hunting and carnivorous North American Indians, 
eaters of bufialo and deer. The admirer of brute 
force and courage may give a preference to the latter; 
but the present social position of the former, and the 
part which they are destined, have in fact already 



yGoogk 



CLUIATE MODIFIES ALIMENTATION. 43 

begun, to p|ay in the great drama of politieal change 
and regeneration in South America and Mexico, desig- 
nate them to a more elevated position in the scale of 
humanity, than their more intractable but more savage 
fellow aborigines of the North. In making these com* 
parisons, I do not wish it to be supposed that there are 
not other causes operative besides the nature .of the 
food; t)ut merely assert, that for physical growth and 
strength, and endurance of fatigue, vegetable diet is 
proved, in many situations, to be amply sufficient. 
Still, I am not prepared to say, with Rosseau, << that 
great eaters of meat are in general more cruel and 
more ferocious than other men,'' although this opinion 
has been repeated by Byron, who alleged that he felt 
an increase of savageness in himself, when he ate meat 
for any length of time. This eccentric genius had, ho w- 
ever,a great deal of innate savageness in his composition, 
which required small exciting cause for its manifesta- 
tion. But our subject at present, is the practice of en- 
tire people, not the opinions or the idiosyncrasies of 
individuals. 

Climate is regarded as the chief modifier of the appe- 
tite for particular kinds of food among the different peo- 
ple of the earth. But the nature of th^ soil, and its 
greater or less degree of cultivation are, I think, more 
influential causes. In warm climates, that is for thirty 
to thirty-five degrees on eftch side of the equator, vege- 
table food in some shape or other is the kind chiefly 
used. As we advance beyond these limits, particularly 
in the northern hemisphere, the proportion of animal 
food increases until we reach the hyperborean regions, 
the inhabitants of which live almost entirely on fish and 
rein-deer. With the exception of the people just named, 
and the Inhabitants of the sea coast' of northern Europe 



yGoogk 



44 NATIONAL DIETETIC TSAGES. 

and of western Africa, and some blands, which prodaee 
fish in abundance, a very great majority of mankind 
subsist almost entirely on vegetable substances, and 
chiefly the cerealia or farinaceous grains, and thd kin- 
dred legumes, and roots, such as the potato and cassada. 
On this point there is an agreement in practice between 
the husbandmen of Tuscany, a majority of whom only 
allow themselves meat once a week, and the people of 
the Highlands of Scotland and of Ireland, the larger 
number of whom have not even this addition to their 
somewhat scanty allowance of oatmeal and potatoes. If 
the peasantry of Italy consume little animal food, those 
of Spain and Portugal consume less. The wandering ' 
Arab does not habitually use meat; it is with him rather 
a feast than a regular meal. ^ 

I repeat, that by far the greater number pf the inhabi- 
tants of the earth, have used, in all ages, and continue to 
use at this time, vegetable aliment alone: when the addi- 
tion of meat to vegetables, for food, is made, it is not a 
daily allowance; and even in these cases, the proportion 
of meat to vegetables is small. This remark is applicable 
to the people of antiquity, as well as to those of modem 
times. 

The Athenians subsisted mainly on vegetable food, 
and the same may be said of the ancient Greeks gene- 
rally. When laws were promulgated, forbidding an ox, 
or a lamb a year old to be killed, as was at one time the 
case in Athens, we must infer that the use of animal 
food was exceedingly restricted. A qualifying remark 
is, however, in place here. Swine were eaten the fint 
of all animals, being wholly unserviceable for other pur- 
poses; and even after other flesh came to be eaten, it was 
thought unlawful to kill oxen, because they are very 
serviceable to mankind, and partners of their labours 



yGoogk 



OF THE ATHENIANS. 45 

in cultivating the ground. Farther exception might be 
taken to the opinion of the ancient Greeks using an 
aliment chiefly vegetable, from the fact of Homer so 
often specifying the kinds of meat served up at the re- 
pasts of his heroes, as when Agamemnon, at an enter- 
tainnaent which he gave to Ajax, presented this latter 
with the chine of an ox, as a reward for his valour; and 
Alcinous in a banquet fed his guest upon beef. But the 
very emphatic mention of these things shows their rarityj 
and that they were introduced only on days of festival 
or rejoicing, and by those high in power and rank. It 
has been observed, as illustrative of the daily fare of 
those whom the heads of the house were not particularly 
desirous of pleasing,— that the suitors of Penelope^ 
though given to all sorts of pleasure, are never enter- 
tained with either fish or fowl, or any delicacies. The 
principal food of the heroic age was barley, and porridge 
made of barley meal, sometimes mixed with oil, not 
unlike the polenta of the modern Italians. Barley was 
the .first grain cultivated in Attica; hence the sacred 
law, according to which barley was strewed over the 
sacrificial ox, and thin cakes of barley formed part of 
the oflFering. Afterwards, in more civilized ages, barley 
bread came to be the food of beasts, and of the poor who 
were not able to furnish their tables with better provi- 
sions — a change precisely the same as that which 
has taken place in the farinaceous food of modern 
nations. Wheat bread, with olives, figs, and other 
fruit, and less seldom, with cheese and eggs, constituted 
the diet of the Athenians in their most flourishing days: 
the common people used garlic and onions as condiment. 
Honey was, also, largely eaten, either alone with bread, 
or incorporated in the flour, in the form of cakes. Of 
animalhood, fish, fresh and salted, seem to have been 



yGoogk 



46 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

the kind most used; next to this came ponltry and game, 
but these articles could not be partaken of by the mass 
of the people. Even in a formal banquet, at Athens, 
the number and variety of fruits, vegetables, &c. ex* 
ceeded those of animal substances. There were com- 
monly on the occasion of a feast, three courses; the first 
provoked the appetite rather than satisfied it, by sharp 
herbs, eggs, oysters, asparagus, olives, and a mixture of 
honey and wine. Poultry and fish were the chief mate- 
rials of the second course. The third consisted of sweet 
meats, with Thracian, Lesbian and Chian wines. On the 
score of fish, th^ wealthy Athenians were great epi- 
cures. But it would be as great an error to infer the 
habitual fere of the majority of the Athenians, firom re- 
pasts like these, as to draw conclusions firom a banker's 
dinner or an alderman's feast, respecting the dietetic 
regimen of the people of France or of England. For 
this reason, I shall omit details of epicurism, manifested 
in the search after and selection of alimentary sub- 
stances, and their odd compounding for the table, among 
the dinner-givers of Athens, as my design is merely to 
give a sketch of national regimen. 

The simplicity of living in Sparta is known to every 
reader. Their public tables were not, however, provided 
by the state, but contributed to by each adult male citi- 
zen. The articles thus contributed, besides money, were 
meal, cheese, figs and wine. Meat, occasionally at 
least, formed a part of these meals, since, independently 
of other proof, a citizen was excused for absenting him- 
self from them if he had been engaged in sacrifice or the 
chase, with the understanding that he should send a 
share of the victim or of the game to his companions. 

The national diet of the Romans in the early ages of 
the republic was necessarily simple, and mainly of veg&- 



yGoogk 



OF THE HQMANS. . 47 

table aliment of the commonest kind, viz:— pulse and 
barley, — a variety of the former of which {frictum 
eicer,) long, if not always, constituted a part of the usual 
food of the lower orders. The latter after a while was 
replaced by wheat; and barley was only used in cases 
of necessity, from the failure of the wheat crops, or as a 
punishment to the soldiers who had misbehaved. Thus, 
we learn, that in the second Funic war, the cohorts 
which lost their standi^rds had an allowance of barley 
assigned to them by Marcellus. Augustus Caesar com* 
monly punished the cohorts which gave ground to the 
enemy, by a decimation, and allowing them no provi- 
sion but barley. The two primary objects to which the 
attention and energies of the state were for a long time 
directed, were the support of armies and encouragement 
of agriculture. The successful legions were rewarded 
with a portion of the lands of their enemies, on con- 
dition that they should cultivate them during peace, 
and be ready to defend them in case of war. 

The division of the people of the republic must have 
been early made between the Plebs urbana and the 
Fleks rustica; and the practice begun which was so 
long, and so injuriously to the state, continued,of a dona<- 
tion of grain to the necessitous citizens of the first, or the 
city populace, whom we can hardly regard in a different 
light from that of the lazzaroni of Naples at the present 
day. The ancient, like the modern idlers and vagrants, 
must have been content with a limited supply of food, 
and that almost exclusively vegetable. At first, it is 
probable, that the distribution of grain from the public 
granaries to the people was for a very small pe* 
cuniary* price; and only at a later period that it was a 
donation at the expense of the public treasury, and 
sometimes of individuals who were desirous of ac^ 



yGoogk 



48 NATIONAL DIBTfiTIC USAGES. 

quiring by this means popularity and influence with the 
people. The burden of accusation against Spurius 
Maelius was, his having courted popular favour by gra- 
tuitous distribution of grain, in order to get possession 
of the supreme power. 

The frequent agitating discussions and dissensions, 
bordering on civil war, arose out of, or were connected 
with, the division of land and adequate supply of grain 
among the Roman people; and the republic was more 
than once almost convulsed with the question of what, 
using modern phraseology, may be called its corn laws, 
as Great Britain is about to be now from the same 
Cause. The sale of grain was given in charge to certain 
state commissioners who had a regularly elected presi- 
dent at their head; and on this body, aided by others, 
likewise devolved the task of providing for the alimen- 
tary wants, as far as the supply of grain was concerned, 
of the city of Rome. At first these wants were met by 
the products of the country around, including probably 
Etruria to the north and the country of the Samnites 
to the south. At this period of the republic the patrician 
shared with his clients and his slaves the toils of agri- 
culture; the farms were generally small, and the produce 
of the land abundant. But as soon as the principle, 
maintained by Appius Claudius, the prince of the senate, 
by Marcus Scasvola the great jurist, and by Crassus the 
Pontifex Maximtis, that the attainment by Rome of 
universal empire depended on the race of free Italian 
husbandmen, was slighted, and pasturage and vine grow- 
ing took the place of tillage, the republic received a vital 
injury. The sources of supply of grain became more 
remote; and Sicily and Africa now assumed, ot* rather 
were compelled to perform, the part to which Italy alone 
had been previously competent, especially before the 



yGoogk 



GBATUITOTJS DISTBIBITTIONS IN BOME. 49 

destruction of the Etruscan and Samnite leagues. With 
the extension of the estates of the patricians, and sub- 
stitution of pasture for tillage, in order to meet the 
increasing demand for a larger and more varied supply 
of animal food, the small farmers and farm labourers 
were thrown out of employment and went to the city, 
to swell the already increased number of the rabble, 
whose chief reliance for subsistence was on the do- 
nations of wheat from the public granaries. In the 
time of Augustus, these lazzaroni thus claiming on the 
strength of their free and transferable tickets, amounted 
to 200,000 persons. We are not well apprised of the 
quantity distributed to each person; — some writers 
saying that it was five bushels, others five pecks, 
monthly. That this class of citizens was regarded with 
more contempt than pity, we may infer from such 
passages as the following, in which Juvenal, speak- 
ing of a certain person, thus predicts his downward 
course: — 

" A vile corn-ticket be his fate at last."— 5W. FIL 

And also Persius in terms not more respectful — 

** Each Pablias, with his tally, may obtain 
A casual dole of coarse and damaged grain." 

Giffordj Sat. F. 

These gratuitous distributions of bread-stuff by the 
state should be regarded as a kind of Roman poor-rates. 
Let it be repeated, however, to the honour of Augustus, 
in the flowing language of Gibbon, that his " anxiety 
to provide the metropolis with sufficient plenty of com 
was not extended beyond that necessary article of sub- 
sistei'ice; and when the popular clamour accused the 
dearness and scarcity of wine, a proclamation was issued 
5 



yGoogk 



50 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

by the grave reformer, to remind his subjects that no 
man could reasonably complain of thirst, since the aq^- 
ducts of Agrippa had introduced into the city so many 
copious streams of pure and salubrious water." 

As the empire and greatness of Rome declined, the 
demands of her idle and thriftless citizens increased, 
and they now required an allowance of food which the 
soldiers of a Cincinnatus and a Camillus would have 
regarded as even a Patrician luxury. << The monthly 
distribution of grain was converted into a daily allow- 
ance of bread; a great number of ovens were constructed 
and maintained at the public expense, and at the ap- 
pointed hour, each citizen who was furnished with a 
ticket, ascended a flight of steps which had been assign- 
ed to his peculiar quarter or division, and received either 
as a gift, or at a very low price, a loaf of bread of the 
weight of three poundsfor the use of his family.'' During 
five months of the year, a regular allowance of bacon 
was distributed to the poorer citizens, and the annual 
consumption of the capital was ascertained by an edict 
of Valentinian the Third, at three millions, six hundred 
and twenty*eight thousand pounds sterling. As if these 
means were not enough to encourage pauperism and to 
degrade the people, an additional step was taken to in- 
crease the evil by issuing wine on unusually easy and 
liberal terms. " The administration of the public cellars 
was delegated to a magistrate of honourable rank, and 
a considerable part of the vintage of Campania was re- 
served for the fortunate inhabitants of Rome.'' The 
reader will probably, without waiting for the suggestion, 
after reading this last passage, have made the reflection 
that the citizen soldiers of republican Rome living on 
the simplest vegetable food, and on water, or water 
mixed with vinegar for their drink, overcame all their 



yGoogk 



HUmAL DIBT or THJB H0MAK8. 51 

enemies; whereis, the degenerate slaves of the empire, 
supplied with animal food and intoxicated with wine, 
were beaten by every invader, and their city plundered 
alike by Groth and Vandal. The times were changed 
from those when, as Pliny tells us, the Roman citizens 
ploughed their fields with the same diligence that they 
pitched their camps, and sowed their grain with the 
same care that they formed then: armies for battle. 
Corn (grain) he sajrs, was then both abundant and 
cheap. This was the state of things for the first five or 
six centuries after the foundation of the city. Subse- 
quently, foreign conquests, by enlarging the dommions 
of the republic, increased also the remote estates of 
the successful generals and patricians, and made then! 
negligent of their lands near home. The attractions of 
luxury, and of festivals and shows, multiplied in the 
city with the influx of wealth from Asiatic conquest, 
and the dietetic and other usages of the East, and 
kept the wealthy away from their estates. Varro, 
who wrote in the century before the Christian era, or 
in the seventh from the foundation of Rome, com- 
plains, that in his time the great men resided too much 
within the walls of the city, and emplo3Fed themselves 
more ia the theatre and the circus than in their corn- 
fields and vineyards. 

A century earlier than the age of Varro, although 
Italian agriculture had already declined, yet, as we may 
infer from the details of rural life and of practical farming 
given by Cato the Censor, and farther enforced by his 
own example, the rural population had a more abun- 
dant and varied food than their fellow-citizens at Rome. 
Cato is very precise in his directions how to treat the 
slaves, who were labourers, on a farm, and particu- 
larly the kind and amount of food which they ought 



yGoogk 



52 NATIONAL DIETXTIC USAGES. 

to receive. The chief articles which he specifies, are 
bread and wine, — of the former of which each slave 
ought to be allowed, he thinks, a quantity equal to 
three or four pounds avoirdupois daily, according to the 
season and the kind of labour performed; and after the 
vintage, a daily ration of wine, weak it is true, like 
piquettBy drunk by the labourers in the vineyards of 
France at the present day, but amounting in the year 
to more than seventy-four gallons. A portion of fish 
and vinegar, ^nd of olives and figs, was also allowed to 
the farm servants and slaves. 

But whilst agriculture languished at home, and the 
means of alimentary support were consequently less, 
the original Roman system was extended with advan- 
tage to the remoter provinces; and Gaul, and Spain, 
and Britain exchanged their forests and their savage 
inhabitants for cultivated fields, rich pastures, and a 
greatly increased and weU-fed population. Britain was 
said even to be able to export bread-corn during a part 
of the period of Roman domination; and Spain, if we 
can take literally the praises of Calumella, exhibited 
then, in some portions at least of that country, a better 
husbandry than at the present day. 

It does not come within the scope of my present 
design, to speak of the entertainments of the wealthy 
Roman citizens, and of some of the emperors, whose 
cruelty kept pace with their extravagant epicurism. It 
has been well said of these repasts, that prodigality of 
expense seems to have been more studied than delicacy 
of taste, and sumptuous waste more than elegant ar- 
rangement. The details which have come down to us 
serve, however, to show the alimentary substances, 
some of which the Romans habitually used, whilst 
others were prized highly as a delicacy. 



yGoogk 



HOMAK XBPAST8. 53 

The chief meal was their csmoy which we translate, 
supper. Changed as modern habits are, in respect to 
the hour of dining, this term would now be unhesi- 
tatingly rendered by the English one, dinner. The 
casna (the hour for which was four o^clock in the after- 
noon) was the principal meal of the Romans, at least of 
the affluent citizens: as to the mass of labourers, in 
town and country, and farmers, it is not probable that 
their repasts were taken at a different hour from that at 
the present time. The mid-day meal, prandtum, or 
dinner, was the only substantial one of the plain citi- 
zen, whereas it was with the luxurious, as it is now 
with the same class in Europe, a luncheon. The Ro- 
man repast consisted of two courses and a dessert. 
The first, {mensa primay) was of eggs, stained of va- 
rious colours, shell-fish, vegetables, and such trifles as 
compose the side dishes or entremets of our modem 
tables; the second, {mensa secunduj) comprised ra- 
gouts, roast meat, and fish,-*the latter was particu- 
larly prized by the luxurious Romans, as it had been 
by the Athenians of former times. The dessert, (bel- 
larioy) contained the usual proportion of fruit and con- 
fectionary; but it was customary to serve it on a 
separate table, and even the more substantial parts of 
the supper were, occasionally, brought in on portable 
tables, or placed before the guests on frames or trays. 
The fruits consisted of apples, pears, nuts, figs, olives, 
grapes, almonds, raisins, dried figs, dates, pistachio 
nuts, &c. 

The same kinds of flesh and poultry, except the 
turkey, were used for food by the Romans, which are 
in demand at the present time among the people of 
Europe and of the United States. Pork stood higher 
on the list of animal aliments than dietetical writers are 

5* 



yGoogk 



54 NATIONAL DISTETIC XTSAGES. 

inclined to place it in modern times. We have seen, 
that it was issued to the poorer citizens of Home, to- 
gether with bread; and we are told^ that it was most 
esteemed by the athletas both of Greece and Rome^ as 
imparting to them more strength than other meats. To 
these practices we might very well compare the large 
use of pork by the rural population in different parts 
of Europe and America, and, by that numerous class, 
the sailors, of all the maritime countries of the world. 
Beef was considered in ancient, as it is in modem 
times, to be a most substantial nutriment. But the 
Romans allowed themselves a much wider range in 
animal gastronomy than comports with our taste at the 
present day. They were not only fond of young bears, 
dogs and foxes, but, also, held in esteem the flesh of 
camels, and particularly the heels of these animals, as 
well as asses' flesh: the wild ass, brought from Africa, 
was thought to be equal to venison. They were as 
much amateurs of canine flesh as the Chinese are now— 
fricaseed sucking puppies were in great request. The 
wild boar was looked upon as their most sumptuous 
dish; but then it was served up stuffed with game and 
poultry. Juvenal's asperity was softened by the idea 
of this animal, in connection with the pleasures of the 
table, as he calls it — 



" A beast 

Designed by nature for a social feast." 

And Horace is still more diffuse in his praise of a 
" Lucanian boar of tender kind," and of the accom- 
panying incitements to a jaded appetite — 

" Rapes, lettuce, radishes, anchovy brine, 
With skerrets, and the lees of Coan wine«" 

B. n. Sat. 8. 



yGoogk 



ODD TASTES OF THE ROMANS. 55 

Water-rats, snails, and maggots fattened on old timber, 
were among their greatest dainties. Fulvius Hirpinus 
has acquired a name and a fame for the discovery of the 
art of fattening snails on bran and other articles. Like 
some modern patentees, the specification is not that of 
the method by which success is procured. Horace in- 
forms us, that these snails were served up, broiled 
upon silver gridirons, to give a relish to wine. One is 
puzzled at whose taste most to wonder,— the snail 
eater or the wine drinker in such conjunction. Grass- 
hoppers, locusts, and various other insects, had also 
their admirers among these polished barbarians; for, 
compared with the Greeks, the Romans must always 
be so regarded. 

Poultry, as I have already remarked, was largely con- 
sumed by the conquerors of the world, whose taste in 
the varieties of the feathered tribe was as diversified as 
the climate and productions of the empire itself. Many 
a modern gastronome will join with them in admiring 
the goose, of which incredible numbers were annually 
consumed; as also, the livers of these animals, which 
were then, as they are now in France and parts 
of Germany, esteemed great delicacies. Even the 
colour of the bird, from which the livejr was procured, 
was not a matter of indiflference; white being that pre-? 
ferred. Modern taste falls short of the Roman, in the 
ancient partiality for peacocks, ostriches, flamingoes, 
swans, cranes, and rare singing birds, as dishes for the 
table. That of Heliogabalus was regularly served 
with ragouts of the livers and brains of small birds, 
the heads of parrots and pheasants, and the tongues of 
peacocks and nightingales. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER III. 

NATIONAL DIETETIC USAOSS {COntinUtd). 

Depopalation and deficient supply of food in Europe in the middle 
ages— Diet of the people of the East— Egypt— Nubia and Abyssi- 
nia—The brinde of the Abyssinians— Persia— The Arabs— their 
temperate regimen — Hindostan, universal use of rice in — The 
Chinese— their general use of vegetable regimen— The Japanese 
— The people of the East India Archipelago— their simple food- 
Addiction to narcotic stimulants— People of Northern Asia — The 
Tartars and Siberians— their use of animal food, particularly horse 
flesh — their Ar<mmt5<— Limited supply of food among the Siberi- 
ans—their excessive use of tobacco— Europe, its advantages over 
Asia— Norway and Sweden — food used in— Intemperance among 
the people— Denmark, the like state of things in— Holland — food 
and distilleries— Germany, large consumption of swine in — Grer- 
man breweries and distilleries— Russia — Poland. 

With the downfall of the Roman empire followed 
great changes in national regimen^ as well at the capital 
as in the provinces. The revolution in agriculture and 
industry in general, is thus briefly told by a celebrated 
writer and political economist: — <<When the German 
and Scythian nations over^^me the western provinces 
of the Roman empire, the confusions which followed so 
great a revolution lasted for several centuries. The 
rapine and violence which the barbarians exercised 
against the ancient inhabitants interrupted the com* 
merce between the towns and the country. The towns 
were deserted, and the country was left uncultivated; 



yGoogk 



GRATITUDE DUE THE HOKXS. 57 

and the western provinces of Europe, which had en- 
joyed a considerable degree of opulence under the Ro- 
man empire, sank into the lowest state of poverty and 
barbarism/'* These calamities lasted five centuries, 
during which, the finest regions of Europe were uncul- 
tivated, the alimentary products, of course, few and 
badly prepared, and the population correspondingly 
small and ill fed. He who records the return of society 
to a better state of things, by an improved agriculture, 
in the middle ages, cannot overtook the obligations of 
mankind to the monks. They were the restorers of 
learning, by which the mind was nourished, and of 
agriculture, by which the body was fed; and in this 
point of view, we cannot deny them the merit of being 
among the chief agents of civilization in modern times. 
^We owe,'' says Mr. Hallam,t'Uhe restoration of a 
great part of Europe to the monks. They chose, for 
the sake of retirement, secluded spots, which they culti- 
vated with the labour of their hands." Mr. Turner 
{Hist, of Anglo-Saxons) also bears similar testimony^ 
when speaking of Anglo-Saxon husbandry: — " Domes- 
day-book gives us some indication that the cultivation of 
the church lands was much superior to that of any other 
order of society." Horticulture was, in like manner, 
carried by them farther than by other classes. The 
breaking up of the monasteries, and the confiscation of 
their lands, had a powerful and abiding effect in the 
amount and value of nutrimental products of the soil in 
England, and in the dietetic regimen of a large number 
of the small farmers, and of the labourers and poor. 
Too much space would be required, even if I pos- 

• Adam Smith, Wealth of Nations, Book III, Chap. II. 
t History of the Middle Ages, Part II, Chap. IX. 



yGoogk 



58 NATIOHAL 9ISTSTIC UBAOBS. 

sessed all the materials, for giving a fall aocoudt of the 
alimentary regimen of the different people ^read over 
the earth at the present time. The end will be attained 
with sufficient exactness^ and in a more instf uctive man- 
ner^ by my giving a few sketches of this nature first, and 
then describing the several substances, particularly vege- 
table ones^^and their geographical range and proportion- 
ate value, in reference to the amount of the nutrin^ent 
they severally contain, and the numbers who are fed in 
them. In both divisions of this part of my subject, I 
shall introduce statistical returns of the amount of grain 
and other vegetable productions, and of live stock, 
which supply food to the people of the respective 
countries in which they are found. 

Beginning with the people of the East, as the most 
ancient, and whose regimen has undergone little change 
from the time of Abraham and the Pharaohs to the pre- 
sent day, we shall find, that their main and almost ex- 
clusive food is vegetable, and the kind of this in most 
general use is rice. This was the first grain cultivated 
and used in Eg3rpt, and even now outranks in import- 
ance any other. The poorer people can seldom afford 
to eat meat, but subsist chiefly on rice, made into a 
pilau, and moistened with rancid butter or oil. In 
Upper Egypt, where they cannot procure rice, they 
make a hasty meal on boiled horse-beans, or of lentils 
steeped in oil. Onions are used to an incredible extent. 
Dates supply them with sustenance part of the year; and 
in summer, the vast quantities of gourds and melons 
which are then produced, place within their reach an 
agreeable variety. Their drink is the water of the Nile, 
more or less purified, with the occasional addition or 
alternation of buffalo milk. 

In Nubia and Abyssinia, millet or dkourra {sorghum 



yGoogk 



AK ABYSSINIAN KEPAST. 59 

vulgart), and another variety of grain, the teffy consti- 
tute the chief aliment. But, as if to contradict the pro- 
position, that vegetable is the food preferred by the 
inhabitants of warm climates, and animal those of cold 
ones, we find the people of Abyssinia evince a marked 
penchant, not only for flesh meat, but for raw flesh cut 
out of an animal alive, and while the fibres are yet 
quivering. When Bruce first related this, as a fact 
which had come under his own observation^ during his 
residence in Abyssinia, he was vilified, jeered- and ridi- 
culed as not only a liar, but the most impudent of liars. 
But Pearce and Coffin, who remained in the country, 
and became intimately acquainted with the manners of 
the people, afterwards fully confirmed, in the most lite- 
ral acceptation of his words, the whole narrative of 
Bruce on this disputed point. The favourite portion is 
called the shulada^ and is cut out, on each side, from 
the buttocks, near the tail. As soon as these are taken 
away^ the wounds are sewed up by these surgical hutch- 
ers, aad plastered over with cow dung. The animal^ 
which had been thrown down before, and during the 
operation, is now allowed to rise, and is driven forward 
on its journey. The fashionable parties at Gondar, the 
capital of Abyssinia, are served with brindej or raw 
meat, with the same hospitable feeling as, in our part of 
the world, they would be with venison chops, done just 
to the turn. The animal, a cow or a bullock, is brought 
to the door, and the dainty pieces cut off in the manner 
above described. But, on this occasion, the animal is 
killed, before doing which, all the flesh is cut off in solid 
square pieces, without bones or much effusion of blood. 
Two or three servants are then employed, who, as fast 
as they can procure the brinde^ lay it upon cakes of teff 



yGoogk 



60 NATIONAL DIETETIC TTSAGES. 

placed like dishes down the table, without cloth or any 
thing else beneath them. 

The days of fast of these carnivorous and licentious 
people, misnamed Christians, amount to no less than a 
hundred and sixty-five in the year. The fast is only 
preserved^ however, until about three o'clock in the 
afternoon, after which, they make up for their former 
reserve. The doum-tree furnishes a fruit to the Abys- 
sinians, which takes the place of the date-palm. Its 
flavour is compared to that of gingerbread. 

In Persia, rice is represented to be in universal use 
as aliment; but Mr. Fraser tells us, that the cultivators 
of the soil, or the peasants, are seldom found without 
a supply of good wheaten cakes, some mas or sour 
milk and cheese. Fruits, such as dates, grapes, pome- 
granates and melons, and nearly every variety prized 
in Europe, viz., peaches, apricots, cherries, and cur- 
rants, are abundant, and serve both to diversify their 
food and to quench thirst. But the Persians are not 
content with these; they use wine freely, notwith* 
standing the prohibition of the Koran. 

The immense number of flocks and herds, which con- 
stitute the sole wealth of the wandering part of the popu- 
lation, or the Kurds and Turkomans, render the products 
of the dairy abundant in Persia. << The culinary vegeta- 
bles, as turnips, carrots, cabbages, lettuces, cauliflowers, 
peas and beans, radishes, celery, onions, garlic, parsley, 
egg fruit, cucumbers, and others, yield not in excellence 
to those of Europe.'' Methodical cultivation and secu- 
rity of property would place all these at the disposal of 
a majority of the Persian people. 

The Arabs, both in Arabia Proper and in Persia, 
Syria, Egypt and Barbary, and the adjoining regions to 



yGoogk 



OF THS BSDOUIN ABABS. 61 

the southy have all nearly the same habits and fashions <tf 
alimentary regimen. Those nomade, yet pastoral tribes, 
the Bedoninsy have for their sole wealth, except that 
procured by plundw, their flocks and herds, the oiilk 
and butter from which, and a scanty supply of grain 
converted into flour, constitute their chief nourishment 
If another substance were to be specified as coming 
next to bread in its importance to them, it would be dates. 
In Egypt and parts of Persia and Barbary, their bread* 
grain is rice; in Nubia and Syria, and other elevated 
districts, millet, and occasionally wheat and pulse. The 
daily and universal dish of the Aenezees (the chief tribe 
of Arabs) is the ayishy which is flour and sour camePs 
milk made into a paste and boiled. The baurgoul \s 
wheat boiled with some leaven and then dried in the 
sun, and in this state it is preserved for the whole year. 
Bread is used at breakfast, which they bake in round 
cakes, either upon gridirons or upon heated stones, over 
which the dough is spread and immediately covered 
with glowing ashes; sometimes the fire is put into glazed 
earthen pots, and the paste spread over the outside. 
Camel^s flesh is rarely eaten; it is more esteemed in 
winter than in summer, and that of the female is pre* 
ferred. A kid or lamb is prepared out of complinxent 
to a distingui^ed guest; a person of less note is treated 
with coffee, or bread and melted butter. Sometimes an 
entire sheep is roasted, in a hole dug in the sand, and 
lined with heated stones. Upon these the flesh is laid, 
and then covered up closely with cinders and the wet 
skin of the animal. In an hour and a half the n^at is 
cooked, and as it loses none of its juices, it has an ex* 
cellent flavour. Travellers agree in praising the meat 
dressed after this pritnitive fashion. The Arabs use 
butter to excess; it being an ingredient in every disb, 
6 



yGoogk 



$2 NATIONAL DIBTBOmC USAGES. 

and they frequently s^rallov a whole cupftill before 
breakfast The operation of dframing is performed in a 
goat-skin bag» which is tied to the tent-pole or the branch 
of a tree, and mored constantly backwards and for- 
wards tmtil coagulation takes place. The Arabs of the 
villages use more than their brethren of the desert, va* 
rious fruits and vegetables; and to a certain extent they 
may be supposed to modify the nature of their food 
by the fashions of the people among whom they so- 
journ. 

£xcept camel's milk during a repast, water is the 
only drink of the Arabs; and even of this in their wan- 
derings in the desert they are sometimes deprived of for 
days together. If we are to measure the goodness and 
appropriateness of a dietetic regimen by the hardy and 
athletic frame, and endurance of fiitigue under the ex- 
posure of a burning sun, of those who follow it, we are 
bound to think well of the vegetable food and water 
drink of the Bc^douin Arabs. Their sole cordial and 
beverage after meals or as a social accompaniment is 
coffee. 

In India and the greater part of China, Cochin China, 
the Birman Emphre, and the islands of Java, Sumatra, 
&c., rice is the staff of tife, being used in these countries 
to a greater extent than any grain in Europe or Ame- 
rica. It is in fact the food of the highest and the lowest 
•^the principal harvest of every region in the East. 
With some vegetable oil, and occasionally herbs and 
fruits of the season, rice constitutes the food of the peo- 
ple of Eastern and of Southern Asia, in the countries 
above mentioned. A pound and half of rice daily is the 
allowance of food on which an adult Hindoo will not 
only live but work, his drink the while being water. 
No one who has the slightest pretension to caste will 



yGoogk 



CmVJiSE DIET. 63 

admit beef within bis lips. The palanquin bearers or 
coolies, four of whom carry a traveller and his baggage 
and the carriage itself, in aU weighing from three to four^ 
and sometimes fiye hundred pounds, are fed in this way* 
These men are relieved by four others after a distance 
of two miles. In this way they will perform a journey, 
with the above burden on their shoulders, from twelve 
to fifteen miles, at the rate of three to four miles an hour; 
the place of these eight being then taken by a relay of 
the same number. Is this diet an evidence of poverty? 
Rice and water suffice for the food of the purest castes 
or high classes; and it is only among outcast classes thai 
intemperance is found to prevail. The Mohamedans, 
though by no means so scrupulous, are yet temperate. 
Their chief luxury is fruit. 

The Chinese are very reserved in the use of animal 
food.. Rice is the common bread-grain of the country, 
and the sole nutriment of millions in it. Fetaai, a species 
of cabbage, is the universal culinary vegetable, smd 
swine the most abundant live-stock. The animals chiefly 
used as food, when an addition is made to their vegela-* 
ble fare, are pigs and ducks. The latter are bred in 
immense numbers, and educated to a degree that would 
be no discredit to certain featherless bipeds, from whom 
more might be expected. The ducks are split open, 
salted and dried in the sun, and in this state make a 
pleasant addition to the meal of rice. Pefsai is called a 
species of white cabbage, although it does not, I believe, 
belong at all to the Brassica tribe: boiled, it has the 
flavour of asparagus; raw, it eats like lettuce. It often 
weighs from fifteen to twenty pounds. 

The wide range which the Chinese allow themselves 
in animal food is not so much a proof of their carnivor- 
ous propensities as of the limited quantity of common 



yGoogk 



64 NATIONAI. NXfmnC VSAOSS. 

flesh meat, and still more of food of any kind in so re- 
dundant a population as that of China. This will serve 
to explain their eating dogs, rats, and almost every kind 
of animal flesh. A favourite luxury with the rich 
consists of soups made with the gelatinous substances, 
sea slug, bird's nests, &c. imported from the islands in 
the China and Java seas. Tea, the common beverage 
of all classes, is taken without milk or sugar. It is kept 
ready made and drunk cold at any time of the day, and 
presented to guests in formal visits, or in shops to cus- 
tomers. This last fashion will bear comparison, advan- 
tageously enough to the Chinese, with die once, and. until 
recently, common enough practice in our own civilized 
and Christian land, of a store-keeper having a bottle of 
whisky or rum on his counter, for theuse of any person 
who might call to purchase, or even to look at, his goods. 
Along the coast and in the rivers of China, fish aie caught 
in large numbers, and they contribute not a IkAe to the 
food of the inhabitants of this part of the empire. 

The Japanese, as well from religious scruples as from 
motives of economy, are represented to be still more 
abstemious than even the Hindoos, in their not only 
avoiding animal food, but also milk and its prepara^ 
tions. Hot rice ci^es are the standard food, and are 
kept ready at all the inns to be presented to the traveller 
the moment he arrives, along with tea, and occasionally 
sacke or rice beer. But this account {Murray^s EncycL 
Otog.) is at variance with another which states, that the 
chief food of the people of Japan is fish and fowl, both 
of which they procure in extraordinary large quantities, 
and rice. {Loudon? s Encyc, Agriculture.) It is probable 
that both statements are correct, in a qualified sense; 
vegetable being the prevalent regimen in the interior, 
and fish and poultry nearer the sea*coast and estuaries^ 



yGoogk 



EAST INDIA AmCHIPSLAaO. 65 

We might say with truth, that the Chinese are large 
consumers of hog's flesh and of ducks, but the remark 
would still apply to only a limited number of the enor- 
iZH>us population of China. Tobacco is the chief and 
common article of personal and soeial enjoyment anoong 
the Japanese, as opium has unhappily become of late 
years among the Chinese. 

The people of the East Indian Archipelago, in which 
are included Java, Sumatra, Borneo and the Philip* 
pines, use a simple diet, consisting chiefly of rice, with 
the addition of fish, which they procure in lai^e quan* 
tities. In Sumatra, maize is grown for the use of the 
poorer class, rice being the bread^cora of the wealthier. 
It has been noticed, that the people of these islands 
manifest a remarkable propensity to the use of stupefy- 
ing stimulants. Wine, and, still more, spirits of. their 
own manufacture, are liberally used, in defiance of Mo* 
hamedan injunction; but it is chiefly in bangy a substance 
extracted from hemp, in tobacco, and above all in opium, 
that the chief excesses are committed. In the intemperate 
habito of these islanders in the use of non-nutritive and 
narcotic stimulants, we find another exception to the 
alleged influence of climate on the dietetic regimen of a 
people. The inhabitants of warm climates, and above 
all of intertropical regions, have, it is said, no desire 
for those excitants which the people of the north crave, 
and as some pseudo-physiologists would persuade us, 
require, to enable them to resist the depressing effects of 
cold and moisture. But the exception to tropical practice 
affords no exception to the effiects of such regimen on the 
people now under notice. The social stated-manners, 
morals, and intelligence — is in that low degree among 
the idanders of the East Indian Archipelago ^at al- 
ways results from habitual, which so soon becomes ex^ 

6* 



yGoogk 



S6 NATIOKAI. DISTBTIC tJSAOSS. 

treme indulgence in the use of intoxicating or narcotic 
stimulants. 

In strong contrast with the almost exdosively Tege^ 
table diet of the Southern Asiatics, of whom we ha^e 
hitherto spoken, is the large, if not exclusiTe, use of 
animal food by the inhabitants of Northern Asia — Tar- 
tary and Siberia. The Tartars, like the Arabs, lead a 
nomade life; and their wealth is of the same kind, — 
their flocks and herds; the horse being the animal for 
service and locomotion among the former, as the camel 
is chiefly among the latter, fiut the Tartars not being 
able, like the Arabs, to make an exchange of their pas- 
toral wealth for die products of the soil among con- 
tiguous people, are compelled to rely chiefly on animal 
food, and this, according to our notions, not of the most 
savoury kind. The favourite food of the Tartars, is 
horse flesh: with these people, horses^ like oxen else- 
where, are carefully fattened for the tables of the 
rich. The limited number of horses, and the higher 
services to which a large proportion must be put, place 
this delicacy in a great measure beyond the reach of 
the poor, who. can only enjoy it occasionally in winter, 
when the scarcity of pasture obliges the camp to kill 
such as they are unable to subsist. In the absence of 
the most valued kind of flesh, the poor, and the wan- 
dering tribes in general, must put up with mutton in its 
stead. 

To the horse, the Tartars are also indebted for their 
national and characteristic liquor. The milk of the 
mare is fermented into an intoxicating drink, called 
koumissy which is their favourite beverage, and one 
which those of them who are Mohamedans do not 
think comes under the stem prohibition of the Koran 
against wine. These Tartar logicians do not, therefore, 



yGoogk 



9IBSmiA-»-ANUf AL FOOD. 67 

think it any harm to get drunk on the fermented milk 
of mares; whilst they carefully eschew the fermented 
juice of the grape. Our own moderate drinkers at 
home, whilst they eschew ardent spirits, that is alcohol 
mixed with water, think it no harm to pledge each 
other freely in wine, that is alcohol mixed with water, 
a little acid, extractive matter, and sometimes free 
sugar. 

In Siberia proper, abundant as is the supply of grain, 
and adequate to the wants of the people, it is not pro* 
cured by the tribes to the north, Tunguses and otliers, 
bordering on the Polar seas. The sole employment of 
these people is hunting and fishing, mainly for the sake 
of food, and in part to procure furs for clothing and 
trade. They live chiefly on soured cow's milk, mare's 
milk, and horse flesh. Bread is unknown among them. 
Fat is the greatest delicacy; and they eat it in every 
possible shape, raw and melted, fresh and spoiled. 
The inner bark of the larch, and sometimes of the fir, is 
grated and mixed with fish, a little meat, and milk, or fat 
in preference, and made into a soup. In September, the 
inhabitants near the rivers obtain a seasonable supply 
of fish, (herrings,) which are caught in large quantities; 
but owing to their not using salt with their food, in fact 
being positively averse to it, they do not turn this an* 
nual supply to the account which they might do for 
their winter and spring stock of provisions. Reindeer 
flesh is also eaten. Their dogs, which are their chief 
animals of burden, have fortunately a taste similar to 
that of their masters. This fact will not surprise; but 
the same cannot be said of the food of the dogs of the 
South Sea Islands, which, like that of the inhabitants 
themselves, is there entirely vegetable — bread Yruit, 
yams, &c. 



yGoogk 



68 NATIONAL DIETETIC U3AOES. 

The Northern Siberians are excessively fond of to* 
bacco; and it is used both by men and women, who 
swallow the smoke, and bring on thereby a stupefac- 
tion, as pleasurable to them, and in the eyes of the im- 
partial moralist as loathsome, as draniceiiness brought 
about by wine or brandy is among more civilized 
people. This is, probably, what our inveterate smokers 
nearer home would call the intemperate use of to- 
bacco. It would be a curious question to be deter- 
mined by a court of inquiry, composed of members of 
the three learned professions, — how many pipesful or 
segars, how many quids, and how many pinches of 
snuflf may be taken in the course of the day, within 
the line of moderate or temperate indulgence in the 
use of tobacco. It would, I fear, have puzzled the 
Doctors of the Sorbonne, if they had been consumers of 
tobacco. Tested by the laws of physiology and hy. 
giene, of ethics, and of social politeness, there would 
be no difficulty in reaching a satisfactory conclusion. 

Europe, with a greater variety of nutritive products 
of the soil, furnishes to its inhabitants a more abundant 
and varied aliment than Asia. There are in the former 
more of those contrasts between people entirely phyti- 
verous and entirely carnivorous, as in the instances of 
the Hindoos and the Tartars; but generally, in Europe 
there is a certain amount of animal food consumed at 
the same time with vegetable food, and both are sub- 
jected to various culinary processes, by which, whilst 
they please the palate, they become at the same time 
more digestible. Exceptions are, indeed, not unfrequent 
to this condition of things; for, whilst in some countries 
the proportion of animal food is too great, at any rate 
amongst certain classes in it, in others there is a defi- 



yGoogk 



or TBti NOBWEOIANS. 69 

ciency; and in all, the cookery is either by far too negli- 
gent or excessively and injuriously artificial. 

In the few sketches which I have collected of the 
dietetic regimen of the inhabitants of Europe, I shall, 
as I did when speaking of that of those of Asia, endea- 
vour to detail the food of the people, the masses in a 
country, rather than of the wealthy and luxurious. 

Beginning with the people of Scandinavia, we find 
that the Norwegians use rye as their bread-corn, and in 
some districts they mix the inner bark of the larch with 
the meal firom grain, in order to increase the quantity. 
In north Norway and Lapland, barley is said to be the 
chief produce, and in some places oats. Fish is procured 
in abundance, and is a common article of diet, in the 
maritime districts especially, which, considering its ex- 
tensive line of coast and numerous bays, must include 
a no small portion of the kingdom. The herring fishery 
is both a means of supply of food and of foreign trade. 
Perhaps I may in a subsequent chapter give some sta- 
tistical details on this head. 

The annual produce of grain in Norway is stated to 
be 2,650,000 tons, a quantity inadequate to the wants 
of its inhabitants. The importation to make up the 
deficiency is about 750,000 tons; but I ought not to say 
deficiency, for of this quantity no less than 500,000 tons 
are consumed in the distilleries. Potatoes are also de- 
stroyed in the same way; and also much grain of home 
production. 

The products of the dairy are abundant in Norway; 
and cheese, besides being freely used at home, is also 
exported. Coffee is much used, and a traveller {Per* 
sonal Narrative, &c. &c.) tells us that coffee-drinking is 
almost as great a vice as spirit-drinking among the 
men. "Norwegian women of whatever rank must have 



yGoogk 



70 NATIONAL PJBTJBTIC I7SA«S8. 

their strong coffee at least twice a day; even although 
they should be obliged, in consequence, to forego the 
common necessaries of life, and to keep their children in 
rags. If coffee, spirits and tobacco, were prohibited in 
Norway, it would be a richer and a happier country." 
This traveller, just afterwards, asks, "What country will 
set the example in prohibiting the use of poison in the 
shape of cheap spirit?" He then adds very properly, 
" But the decrees of government, though they may alUK 
gether prohibit, have little effect in regulating prices." 
Drinking has always been a besetting sin with the Nor- 
wegians. 

The dietetic usages of the people of Sweden are 
nearly the same as those of the Norwegians, even to the 
excessive use of distilled spirits. Every landholder is 
allowed to manufacture the produce of his own farm, 
and pays a trifling duty for a license, if he buy and 
manufacture as a trader. The agricultural products are 
proportionably more abundant in Sweden, than in the 
adjoining kingdom; as now she is able to export grain 
to meet the wants of others, — whereas, thirty years ago, 
she did not raise enough for her own. The total pro- 
duce of the kingdom, in grain, in 1828, was 6,499,000 
tons, and in potatoes, 3,248,000; the latter crop is much 
cultivated, and has obtained a preference over all other 
alimentary plants. It is reckoned that, of the entire 
produce of the kingdom, a third part is consumed in 
seed, distilleries, breweries, and the feeding of cattle. 
The amount of oxen, cows and calves is computed at 
1 ,900,000. In summer they are driven to the mountains, 
and go there in folds by the sound of a horn or lute, as 
in Switzerland. The sheep are computed at 1,562,000. 
The proportion of animal food consumed by each in- 
habitant has not been calculated. 



yGoogk 



OF THE SWXDSS. 71 

Forsell, a writer who has taken pains to reach the 
truth in the statistics of Sweden, shows, that one half of 
the Swedes are poor, and that every fifth person is un- 
able to support himself. Of this latter class, 9240 per- 
sons were inmates of poor-houses. Besides dissipation, 
misfortune in business, and other casualties, there is one 
cause, rather peculiar, assigned for the great extent of 
pauperism in Sweden, — the devastations committed by 
beasts of prey. But worse than the ravages of wild 
beasts, and of war even, is the raging devil of the still, 
which, according to the calculation of Forsell, causes 
three-fourths of all the crime, want and misery that pre- 
vail in Sweden. "Of late years,'* this writer adds, 
<^the conscriptions showed that in various districts, 
nearly one-third of the youth were unfitted for taking 
any share in the defence of the kingdom." From the 
protocol of the diet in 1787, it appears the yearly con- 
sumption of brandy in 1787, was 5,400,000 kanns, 
(3,736,800 English gallons,) when Finland was united 
to Sweden. But forty-two years later, (1829,) when that 
province was annexed to Russia, it amounted to at least 
22,000,000 kanns, or about 15,000,000 gallons.* Drunk- 
enness seems to be the epidemic vice of the Scandina- 
vian people. Brandy is resorted to on all occasions; it 
qualifies the breakfast, acts as a whet to the appetite 
before dinner, and is not more indispensable at mar- 
riages and merry-makings than on Sundays after sermon. 

In the peninsular part of Denmark proper, (Jutland,) 
the chief aliment furnished by the soil is rye, buck- 
wheat, and potatoes; fish enters into the food of a large 
part of the inhabitants. The wheat is barely sufficient 

* Scandinavia, Ancient and Modern, &c. No. 137 Family Li- 
brary, by Andrew Criobton, LL.D., and Henry Wheaton, LL. D. 



yGoogk 



12 NATIONAL DIETETIC USA0ES. 

for the consumption of the few persons who can afford 
to eat bread made of that grain. The proportion is not 
more than two pecks for each person. Norway re- 
quires 100,000 quarters, or 800,000 bushels of rye, be- 
sides much barley and malt for distillation. la the 
islands, Zealand, &c., barley is the principal grain, out 
of which, and also buckwheat and oats, the bread 
of the people is made. In Sleswick and Holstein, 
parts of Denmark, the chief grain is oats. These 
duchies, and also the islands, have extensive pastur- 
ages, and furnish largely the products of the dairy, 
both for home use and exportation. Some idea may 
be formed of the extent of trade in these artides when 
it is added, that there were exported from all Den- 
mark, 4,671,260 lbs. of butter, and 596,100 of cheese 
in the first six months of 1825. In 1826, the quantity 
was less; or, 105,464 cwt. butter, and 9,406 cwt. cheese. 
"The renowned Hamburg beeP' is furnished by the 
animals pastured in the meadows of the western coast 
of Sleswick. 

Not dissimilar from the diet of the Danes, is that 
of the people of the duchies of Mecklenburg Schwe- 
rin and Strelitz, including their addiction to distilled 
spirits. A family of eighteen persons, on a farm^ con- 
sume food, during the year, as follows: wheat, two- 
thirds of a bushel each person; rye, ten bushels each; 
barley for the bouse-keeping, in malt, grits, pearl- 
barley, &c. for each person, on an average of eight 
bushels, being one hundred and forty-four bushels; 
pease for the family, six bushels: meat, viz., one ox, four 
cows,— two larger and two smaller, ten sheep; aud 
also, an allowance of herrings.* 

* William Jacob. Tracts relating to the Cow Trade, p. 
311-13. 



yGoogk 



IN HOLLAND. 73 

Holland being chiefly a country of pastures, must 
derive her grain from abrofid; the meat furnished by 
the cattle goes to the towns. The products of the 
dairy are great, and serve, with a limited quantity of 
meal and potatoes, for the food of a considerable pro- 
portion of the rural population. In the northern and 
eastern provinces, (Overyssel and Groningen,) the great 
mass of the people subsist almost entirely on potatoes. 
Even in the heart of Holland, between Rotterdam and 
Utrecht, Mr. Jacob informs us, that the agricultural 
labourers are chiefly subsisted on potatoes, and a kind 
of gruel {bret/) made of oats or rye, and seldom more 
than a portion of salted meat once a week. How 
many persons, with full round Dutch forms, plump, 
and more than roseate cheeks, this class furnishes, we 
have no means of knowing. Ardent spirits are largely 
consumed by the Dutch, although they are not called a 
nation of drunkards. Their excessively humid climate 
enables them to tolerate excesses of this kind, better 
than their southern neighbours; but it is no affectation 
of philanthropy to believe, that the amount of grain 
appropriated to distillation would receive a much more 
beneficial direction, if it went to increase the quantity 
of their too scanty food. 

The poor labourers and families could not be ex- 
pected to obtain the grain from the same class of 
importers, nor perhaps through precisely the same 
channel of foreign exportation; but even if they were 
not direct consumers at all, so as to enhance impor- 
tation, better health and habits of industry, by ab- 
stinence from spirituous drinks^ in addition to the 
saving of money now paid for these liquors, would 
enable them to give more time and labour, and, if in 
cities, more mechanical skill, in exchange for an ad- 
7 



yGoogk 



74 NATIONAL DIETETIC U8A0E8. 

ditional supply of food to that which they now receive. 
Their purchases, either directly or indirectly, wonld also 
authorize, in a commercial and economical view, the 
outlay of the capital, now invested in distilleries, in 
agriculture. 

The general return from inquiries respecting the food 
of a small farmer or a successful artizan in Holland, is 
bread, principally rye, cheese, potatoes and other vege- 
tables, beans and pork, buttermilk, with buckwheat. 

Belgium, producing more grain than Holland, and at 
the same time having extensive pasturages and abun- 
dant live stock, may be supposed to furnish a better 
aliment to her rural population. Rye is grown, both 
as the corn-bread and for the distilleries: it is in the 
proportion of two to one of wheat. Thus, if 7 re- 
present the quantity of land sowed with rye, 3J will 
indicate the proportion of wheat, 3 of oats, 2.8 of bar- 
ley, 1.3 of potatoes, 2 of buckwheat, 1.1 of pulse, A 
favourite dish with the Flemish farmer, is buttermilk 
boiled, with rye flour mixed in it. Pork and salt fish 
is the animal food most easily procured; and this, or 
milk and cheese, with rye-bread and potatoes, and 
some other vegetables, and weak beer, constitute the 
common food of the farmers and their farm servants: 
— occasionally, though not for daily use, they add fresh 
fish and fresh meat. They mix with their edibles, a 
plentiful supply of butter, or rendered lard in its place. 
Kidney beans, stirred and stewed in milk, is a favourite 
dish. The day-labourers are not so well provided; 
they have, however, rye-bread, potatoes, buttermilk, 
and occasionally some salt fish. 

Germany, consisting of different kingdoms and states, 
with great differences of climate and soil, will not ex- 
hibit uniformity in the food of her inhabitants. Rye is 



yGoogk 



OBRHANY — BUS8IA. 75 

the chief bread of Northern Grermany; wheaten is only 
foundy to any extent, in the Southern states, as AusUria 
and Bavaria. Maize is grown in Moravia. The great 
German family, of somewhere about 30,000,000, is de- 
cidedly a pork-eating one; the vegetable addition is pre- 
pared cabbage, or sauer-krauet. Add to these, bacon, 
sausage, raw herring and beer, or a sour wine, and we 
shall have a good idea of the staples of German food. 
But the poorer classes cannot procure themselves a 
daily pittance of meat even of any description. If they 
can procure it once or twice a week, living in the in- 
terim on potatoes and bread, other vegetables, and pud- 
ding and milk and their wasser soup, the relishing 
ingredient of which is butter, they must be content* 

It has been calculated, that there are no less than 
8,000,000 of hogs slaughtered annually in Germany; 
and although some of this amount is exported, in the 
shape of hams and sausages, yet there is an importa* 
tion from Hungary and Turkey. Hassel estimates the 
number of the oxen, cows, and calves of Germany at 
from twelve to fourteen millions, — of which Prussia, 
on this side of the Elbe, has 1,328,000, and Austria 
2,600,000. There are supposed to be 20,000,000 of 
sheep in Germany. 

A brewery and distillery are the necessary accom- 
paniments of every large farming establishment in Ger- 
many. The mere announcement of this fact indicates 
pretty strongly the dietetic habits of the people on the 
score of drinks. 

Russia, with an abundant harvest of rye and oats to 
the north, and of the finest wheat in the southern 
provinces, gives, as yet, poor aliment to her peasantry. 
The rapid increase of the number of her people, shows 
the connection between food and population, although 



yGoogk 



76 NATIONAL DIETSTIC USAGES. 

the former is not distributed nor made as available as 
it might be, were the means of communication be- 
tween diflferent parts of the empire more numerous 
and easy. Rye is the corn-bread of the country; it 
is used, also, for being distilled into liquor; then come 
wheat and barley; rice and maize are cultivated in 
some parts of Taurida. The subsistence of a small 
farmer or labourer on a piece of land is rye-bread, 
buckwheat, and sour cabbage soup, well seasoned with 
salt, and, occasionally, a little lard. In the province of 
Archangel, the industrious may procure for themselves 
fish, rye-bread, gruel, and occasionally meat and tur- 
nips.* The common Russian beverage is quass, or 
kvasj made by pouring warm water on rye or barley 
meal. The peasantry around Archangel drink also a 
great deal of tea. One would wish that the enumera- 
tion of drinks might end here; but the propensity of the 
Russians to indulge in the use of ardent spirits, and the 
great consuihption of these liquors in the empire^ are, 
unhappily, facts too well known. 

With the more substantial and wealthier inhabitants, 
the preliminary use of salt fish, cheese and brandy, as 
a whet, is as general in Russia as in Scandinavia. 

In Poland, also, rye is the bread-corn of the people; 
although wheat, in large quantities, is exported from 
Dantzig. An important article in forest culture, as it is 
called, is honey, which is collected in large quantities 
from trees, and converted into mead. 

* For the particalars of the food of the poorer olastes on the 
Continent of Europe, I am indebted to ** Appendix to the Report 
on the Poor Laws,"— Foreign Communications. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER IV. 

KAf lONAL DiBTsnc USAGES (contintuit). 

France^poor diet of the majority of the people in— Intemperance in 
France — Amount of her alimentary vegetable prodncts — of animals 
used for food.— Switzerland— Geneva— Food of the Swiss work- 
men in cities, and labourers in the country. — Italy — Diet of the 
people of Piedmpnt, — Savoy, — Tuscany.— Chestnut bread largely 
used by the Italians.— Spain,— subsistence of the people inr— Their 
temperance. — Portuguese. — Recapitulation. — European Turkey — 
Greece, — The Morea— Great Britain— Pood used by the people ot 
England,— by those of Scotland, and of Ireland— Intemperance in 
ail. — United States— Abundant Alimentary prodncts of— Slare 
population,— their food.— Anmial food,— chief varieties used by 
the people.— Comparison between the United States, and France 
and Great Britain— Chief kind of grain— wheat and maize for 
bread— potatoes— rye— barley — ^buckwheat— oats-*rice— The pro- 
ducts of the dairy— Excessive alimentation of the working people, 
—Great eaters and fast eaters — Smoking and chewing tobacco- 
Use of intoxicating drinks.- Diet of the people of Mexico, — of 
Venezuela, — of La Plata, — of Brazil— Spirituous liquors used 
largely by the Indian population in those countries. 

• 

France, la belle France, with her fertile soil, fine 
climate, extensive agriculture, active commerce, and 
vine-clad hills to boot, supplies but scanty alimenl to 
millions of her children. There are, according to M. 
Dupin, twenty millions of the French people (out of 
thirty-three millions) who are wholly deprived of the 
nourishment of animal food, and live on cereal grain^ 

7* 



yGoogk 



78 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

and potatoes; seven and a half millions eat little or 
no bread; and barley, rye flummery, made of buck- 
wheat, chestnuts, pulse, a moderate quantity of pota- 
toes and water, are the only subsistence of that part 
of the population which has no fuel but stubble and 
furze.* In a large portion of Burgundy, of Cham- 
paigne, and of Franche-Comt6, the farmers, like the 
labourers, are coarse peasants, eating black (rye) bread 
throughout the year, and without energy to over- 
come the unfortunate circumstances in which they are 
placed. 

At and around Havre, the labouring man and artizan 
can procure for food, bread, a few vegetables, and cider 
for drink— never animal food, or very rarely. Coffee 
and molasses are used. 

In Brittany, the artisan may procure bread and a 
small quantity of meat, (perhaps five pounds a week,) 
vegetables and fish, which are very cheap. For the 
agriculturists, the principal articles of food are buck- 
wheat, made into porridge and cakes, barley-bread, 
potatoes, cabbages, and about six pounds of salt pork 
weekly; also, a little grease for the cabbage-soup, which 
is poured on barley-bread. 

It will surprise many of my readers, who cannot 
connect ideas of intemperance in the use of strong 
drinks with the habits of Frenchmen of any class, to 
be told, on very competent authority, (M. Perrier, of 
Brest— Preface of Foreign Appendix to Report from 
Commissioners on the Poor Laws, p. 68,) in refer- 
ence to the people of Brittany: << The principal cause 
of misery is inebriety: its frequency among the lower 

* Mr. H. C. Carey — Principles of Political Economy; Part 
second, p. 216-17. Quoting Villeneave. 



yGoogk 



DBUNKXNNESS IN VRAKCI. 79 

orders keeps them in poverty. The ^cabaret* (wine 
and brandy shop) absorbs a great portion of their earn- 
ings. This vice is not confined to men; the women 
partake of it. It has decreased within the last five or 
six years; but is still (1834) considerable.'' 

Of the like melancholy purport, is the communication 
of Mr. Newman, British Consul at Nantes, to the Poor 
Law Commission. In reply to a question respecting 
the frugality of the labouring people, he says: ^ Fru- 
gality in Nantes, with the labouring classes, is the effect 
of necessity more than of virtue. Drunkenness is com- 
mon, and temperance almost a stranger to them. In 
the country, it is nearly as bad; nine out of ten of the 
little farmers who come to this market, Wednesdays 
and Saturdays, and particularly at the fairs, return 
home in a state of intoxication. The life led by them 
when on military duty, certainly demoralizes them." 
As regards the domestic affections and ties, Mr. New- 
man says: <<In general, the wife and children either 
support themselves, or are supported by charity, whilst 
the husband spends all his earnings in debauchery." 
In reply to the question, is piece-work general? Mr. 
Newman informs the Commission, that << contractors 
generally hire the workmen by the piece; but the 
finances of the latter are not improved by it; for if they 
work extra hours in five days, they will spend the sixth 
in a debauch." 

I shall refer again to this darker feature of French 
dietetic regimen in connection with health, when I 
speak of grapes and their fermented juice or wine, and 
also in a subsequent chapter upon drinks. It will then 
be shown, by statistical documents of French prepara- 
tion, that the people of France in their use of wine, 
cider, beer and brandy, for drink, consume in this way. 



yGoogk 



80 NATIONAL OISTJBTIO USA»Ji8. 

per individual, more than the people of Great Britain 
and Ireland, per individual. The evils growing out of 
^bis ii9imense indulgence in alcoholic drinks, in the 
impoverishment, diseases, and demoralization of the 
French people, will also be exhibited, by reference to 
0e communications and reports of their own physicians, 
^tists, and philanthropists. 

In the Gironde, of which Bourdeaux is the capital, 
the food varies in different districts. Throughout the 
district called Landes^ occupying aboye one-third of this 
department, the food consists of rye bread, soup made 
of millet, cakes made of Indian corn, now and then some 
salt provisions and vegetables, rarely if ever butcher's 
meat; their drink water, which for the most part is 
Stagnant. The food of the proprietor or working faroier 
in the department of the Lower Pyrennees, of which 
Bayonne is the chief town, chiefly consists of vegetable 
soups, potatoes, salt fish, pork, bacon, &c. &c., seldom or 
ever butcher's meat, and invariably Indian corn bread, 
home baked. In the department of the Mouths of the 
Rhone, Marseilles the chief city, the food of the labourers 
and poorer population is generally composed of vegeta- 
bles, bread, and farinaceous substances made into soup 
or bouillie, probably once a week. 

The average amount of alimentary vegetable produce 
of the soil in France in 1830, according to an estimate 
in a memoir read before the Society of Statistics was as 
follows:— 60,553,000 hectolitres, or about 170,000,000 
of Winchester bushels of wheat; and 114,733,000 hecto- 
litres, or about 332,500,000 bushels of other grains; 
46,238,000 of hectolitres, or about 130,000,000 bushels 
of potatoes and chestnuts. Chaptal values the chestnuts 
at 812,000,000. Baron Dupin {Force Productives et Com" 
merciaks de la France, Part II, p. 260,) supposes that 



yGoogk 



IN SWITZXRLAHD. 81 

there were 6^684,952 bead of horned cattle in France in 
1825. The number of swine was estimated by Balbi 
to be, in 1826, 4,000,000. 

In Switzerland the people generally have a better 
aliment than their neighbours. Cows and sheep consti- 
tute the chief wealth of the Swiss farmers, and their 
principal means of support; goats for the poor; and cows 
supply the cheese from which the richer derive their 
little wealth. The canton of Geneva, with a population 
of 56,000 inhabitants, consumes per individual, in a 
year, about six bushels of wheat, or its equivalent in 
some other grain. Potatoes are, also, eaten largely. The 
proportion of animal food per individual is 6.45 oz. daily 
in the city of Geneva^ or/just double that of an inhabi- 
tant of Paris. The proportional consumption of wine 
is double that consumed in £aris. 

All the weavers of Switzerland, says Mr. Bowring, 
from whose Report on the Commerce and Manufactures 
of Switzerland I have derived the preceding details 
respecting Geneva, make use of coffee, milk, oatmeal, 
and potatoes, which compose their principal food. A 
few indulge themselves with meat and half a pint of 
cider on Sundays. They are also farmers on a small 
scale. The workmen of Neufchatel make three meals 
a day, two of which (in the morning and evening) con- 
sist of coffee, milk, potatoes, &c.; at dinner, meat and 
vegetables, and, for those who can afford it, wine. In 
Tburgovia, the food consists of oat-cakes, barley, and 
sometimes wheaten bread and potatoes. Among the 
manu&cturing classes the use of coffee is being intro- 
duced, and also that of animal food. The peasantry eat 
meat once or twice a week. The ordinary beverage of 
the people is wine or cider, but beer is also brewed in 
the canton* 



yGoogk 



82 NATIONAL DIETXTIC USAOES. 

Of the Swiss peasantry in general, it may be said, that 
potatoes and barley, with cheese and milk, and a little 
maize for porridge, form the principal part of their food. 

I have not seen any detailed returns respecting the 
food of the inhabitants off Italy; but their chief subsist- 
ence may be considered as of bread of maize or of 
wheat, or rice, or chestnuts, according to the region. 
Maize is the chief bread-corn in Lombardy and the 
lands watered by the Po, where rice also, in considera- 
ble quantity, is raised: wheat is found in Tuscany, 
the upper part of the Roman states, and parts of the 
kingdom of Naples and in Sicily. Maize is grown in 
the low grounds of these countries, in the Maremme 
or marshy region on the western coast, and near Naples 
rice also. Chestnuts is the chief aliment of the inha- 
bitants of the Appenine regions; the flour is rich and 
sweet, and keeps well. 

In Piedmont, a labouring man or artisan and his 
femily live on the simplest and coarsest food; no meat, 
little wine, and twice as much maize flour as wheat 
flour; and after bad harvests, and consequently dear 
provisions, he must apply to the charity of his neigh- 
bours, or of the inhabitants of his parish. 

In Savoy, potatoes, rye bread, chestnuts, and milk 
form the principal food of the poor. Except in the 
mountains the labourer eats very little meat, and rarely 
drinks wine. The walnut has been called the olive of 
Savoy, supplying as it does sufficient oil for the con- 
sumption of the inhabitants, and also of Geneva. 

In Tuscany, the small farmers of the plains, who are, 
like most of the farmers in Italy, renters on shares, 
(metayers) pursue a rigid economy, never tasting 
butcher's meat but on Sunday. The three repasts of 
the other days are either porridge of maize (mush) or a 



yGoogk 



IH WAZH ANB POmTUOAL. 83 

salad; porridge of bread and French beans seasoned 
with olive oil; or of some sort of soup. 

Of late years potatoes have beea grown to a consi- 
derable extent, and now form an important article of 
food in many districts of Italy. With all classes a 
favourite aliment is flour made into long cylindrical 
rolls, or maccaroni, and a small variety vermicelli- 
olive oil is largely used, and in the summer months 
forms, with bread and the vegetables of the season, the 
food of a large number. 

The subsistence of the people of Spain is chiefly de- 
rived from wheat and other cereal grains and vegetable 
substances, to which oil is freely added. They do not, 
however, grow enough of grain for their own consump- 
tion. Salted and dried fish is consumed by them in con- 
siderable quantity, and garlic is a favourite condiment 
Fruits, in so diversified a climate, are abundant, and 
they, with water, serve to quench the thirst and gratify 
the palate of the generally temperate Spaniards. The 
Spanish labourers, in order to procure cool water in the 
fervid heats of summer, adopt a simple device. They 
expose large unglazed earthen bottles (alcarraza) in the 
open air, which, by causing an evaporation of the mois- 
ture that penetrates through the vessel and bedews its 
outer surface, keeps the contained water of a grateful 
coolness. 

The food of the labouring Portuguese is salt fish, 
vegetable soup, with oil or lard, and bread made of In- 
dian corn. 

A very brief recapitulation of the preceding state- 
ments will show that the mass of the population of 
northern and ceiltral continental Europe, or that of 
Scandinavia, Russia, Germany, Holland, Belgium and 
France, subsist, in great part, on vegetable food, and 



yGoogk 



84 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

this of the second or inferior of the cereal grains, viz: — 
rye, seasoned with the products of the dairy, and a small 
portion of meat or fish. I say seasoned, for, the occa- 
sional use only of animal food makes it the exception 
rather than the rule .in dietetic regimen. Among the 
people of southern Europe there is equal simplicity of 
aliment; but maize, to a certain extent, takes the place 
of rye, and wheat is in proportion more freely used than 
it is to the north. 

If I add to the preceding sketch a notice of the diet of 
the inhabitants of the Morea, and also those of Euro- 
pean Turkey, there will be found the same general 
features as already described in relation to the rest of 
Europe. The labouring class in the Morea, (peninsular 
part of Greece,) by living temperately as these persons 
almost all do, can use both maize and wheaten bread, 
olives, pulse, vegetables, salt fish, and occasionally meat 
on great festivals. Their usual drink is water, but the 
men take wine also, moderately. The food of a similar 
family in European Turkey would make their food 
principally consist of bread, rice, greens, dried beans 
and pease, olives and onions, and meat about once a 
week. 

Of the three countries, which collectively compose 
the United Kingdom, viz. England, Scotland and Ire- 
land, the two last assimilate to continental Europe in 
the dietetic regimen of their inhabitants; ^their food 
being mainly vegetable, and of an inferior bread, corn 
(oats) and potatoes, to which is too frequently added 
large potations of distilled spirits. England boasts of 
the large proportion, comparatively to other countries, 
of animal food consumed by her inhabitants, and of the 
abundant nutriment in general procured by her people. 
Their bread-corn is wheat, supplied, as would appear 



yGoogk 



ANISlAL FOOD IN SHOLAND. 85 

by careful estimates, at the rate of a quarter, or eight 
bushels, for every individual in the kingdom. The pro- 
portionate quantity of flesh meat has not been ascer*- 
tained: that for the people of London is said to be 107 
pounds per individual, in the year. {McCulloch^s Com'- 
mercial Dictionary; Art. Cattle.) In addition to, or 
replacing fresh meat, there is, in adequate proportions, 
a good deal of salt pork and fish consumed by the 
people; of the latter, herrings and pilchards are most 
worthy of notice, — the pilchards being caught, and 
eaten, by the people of Cornwall and Devon. In these 
counties, 3000 hogsheads of this last are consumed an- 
nually; the quantity exported, chiefly to Italy (in 1832), 
was 31,000 hogsheads. In addition to potatoes, which 
are grown and eaten by the English people in large 
quantities, they procure by their skill and industry in 
horticulture, a variety of esculent vegetables, which 
furnish a seasonable variety to nearly all classes. As 
about one-half of the land in England is occupied for 
pasture, the products of the dairy abound, and they 
contribute to increase the list of alimentary substances 
in habitual use by the people. It is stated in the Pre- 
face to Foreign Jjppendix to Report of Commissioners 
on the Poor Lawsy already referred to, that « of the 
687 parishes which have given an answer, from which 
the diet of the family can be inferred, 491, or about 
five-sevenths, state that it could obtain meat; and of 
the 196 which gave answers implying that it could not 
get meat, 43 are comprised in Essex and Sussex, two 
of the most pauperised districts in the kingdom." This 
statement does not, however, it is to be feared, convey 
a correct view of the condition, as respects their ali- 
mentary habits, of a large number of the operatives 
and their families, in the chief manufacturing towns, — 
8 



yGoogk 



86 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES 

Manchester, Binningham, Leeds, Sheffield, &c. who do 
not taste meat once a week, and are unable to obtain 
even an adequate supply of the simplest nutritive vege- 
table food, taking that furnished by the cerealia into 
the account They are compelled to subsist on po- 
tatoes and the coarsest bread, sometimes on oatmeal 
and water. This class of the population, and its 
equivalent in London, are they who think to find a 
temporary alleviation to the gna wings of hunger, and 
the lassitude brought on by excessive toil in close and 
ill-ventilated shops and manufactories, by indulging in 
potations of the worst kinds of intoxicating drinks — 
drugged beer and spirits. << Beer and porter constitute 
the staple drink of the great body of the people; but 
malt spirit, of a cheap and very pernicious kind, is con- 
sumed in great quantities by the lower orders, espe- 
cially in the metropolis, where it is rapidly accelerating 
their degeneracy/^ I forbear from enlarging on this 
point at present, as I propose to examine it more fully 
in a subsequent chapter on drinks. 

The people of Scotland, hardy, thrifty and acute, clear 
thinkers and good fighters, have always lived on the 
simplest vegetable fare, — oatmeal converted into cakes 
and porridge, to which of late years potatoes are added, 
and the whole eked out at dinner with a little barley- 
broth; and in the morning and evening repast, with a 
modicum of milk or butter, although these last articles 
are often wanting. Of the 1,800,000 acres under culti- 
vation for grain in Scotland, 1,260,000 are taken up 
with oats; barley occupies 280,000 acres, being reared 
chiefly for distillation; and wheat, but 140,000. An 
occasional addition to the vegetable food just described, 
is herrings, immense numbers of which are caught on 
the northern coasts of Scotland, and salted, both for 



yGoogk 



IN SCOTLAND AND IRELAND. SI 

home consumption and foreign export. Of 339,000 bar- 
rels caught and cured in 1832, 92,000 were retained for 
home use. In the same year, 63,500 cwt. of cod were 
cured in a dry state, and 5400 cwt. in pickle; of the 
former, 40,500 were consumed at home. The traveller 
will hear of, and have an opportunity of appreciating, 
with his landlord or wealthy host, the exquisite flavour 
of the mutton of the Grampians and Cheviots; but the 
people at large are strangers to this kind of nutriment 
They can speak more knowingly of their national dish, 
haggiSf a mixture of oatmeal, fat, liver, and onions, 
boiled up in a bag, which was once the stomach of the 
animal; also, of their hotch-potch, &c. 

The Scotch have long had the unenviable reputation 
of being great distillers. In 1833, the quantity of liquor 
thus manufactured was a little under 6,000,000 gallons. 
Drunkenness and its concomitants, both bodily and 
mental, are at once the tax and rebuke for such a prac- 
tice, which loses nothing of its intrinsic wrong by its 
magnitude, owing to the number of persons employed, 
and the implied sanction of the government, that de- 
rives a large income from its continuance. 

Ireland exhibits a phenomenon in alimentary regimen, 
by the chief subsistence of her teeming population being 
the potato. Elsewhere, this root is an auxiliary more 
or less important and necessary to some of the cereal 
grains for completion of the amount of nutriment for 
the people; but in this country, the potato is the chief 
article of aliment. Next to it comes oats, which are 
reared in the proportion of ten bushels to one of any 
other grain. Of animal food, fish ranks first for its ali- 
mentary use in Ireland: they are caught in large num- 
bers in her numerous bays, estuaries, and rivers, to meet 
the immediate exigencies of hunger when the common 



yGoogk 



88 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES 

vegetable food fails, and partly as a substitute for meat 
in the diet of the wealthier, when religious scruples 
forbid their indulging in this latter at particular seasons. 
To a still greater extent, is the consumption of salted 
herrings, from England and Scotlatid, which, serve, 
especially in the towns, to eke out the scanty sub- 
sistence of the people with something of a more stimu- 
lating nutriment than potatoes and oatmeal. Of the 
181,654 barrels of herrings exported from Great Britain 
in the year ending 3d April, 1830, nearly one-half this 
quantity or 89,680, was sent to Ireland. It is the hard 
fate of the Irish people, or the great majority of them, to 
be tantalized with an abundance on their own fields, of 
live stock, which they cannot themselves convert into 
food, but must sell to meet other requirements. Even 
the fatted pig, so often the companion of the children 
in the poor man's cabin, is in due time taken to market 
and sold, to be killed and salted for exportation. Nor 
can the people afford to consume all the grain which 
they raise. In one year, 1830, the exportation of wheat 
from Ireland to Great Britain amounted to 563,618 
quarters; and of oats and oatmeal, to 1,563,593: and 
in 1832, of 69,624 cows, nearly 150,000 pigs, 74,260 
sheep, and 24,000 lambs. It has been estimated, that 
the entire amount of imports of alimentary substances, 
vegetable and animal, into Great Britain from Ireland, 
in one year has been as high as ten millions of pounds 
sterling. 

Like their neighbours across the strait, in Scotland, 
the Irish have long been great distillers, and, also, great 
consumers withal of distilled liquors. If poverty and 
degradation, and yet a sensibility to their ills but 
without the ability to shun them, be an excuse for the 
wild excitement, and subsequent stupefaction caused 



yGoogk 



IN THE UNITED STATES. 89 

by free drinking of these liquors, then might a plea of 
charitable construction and mitigated judgment be set 
forth in favour of the Irish; but if good health, and a 
naturally liyely temperament, and cheerfulness which 
seldom abandons them, be bars to, or reasons rendering 
artificial exhilaration unnecessary, then must the Irish 
be judged with asperity, if not condenmed, for their 
appeals to the bottle and encoiuragement of the stilL 
It may be, ere long, that he who writes on this subject, 
will speak of the habits of the people of Ireland, in re- 
ference to their addiction to spirituous potations, among 
the things that were — bygone excesses, which have 
been universally and permanently checked, and their 
repetition prevented, by the labours of Father Mathew 
and his zealous coadjutors in the good cause. 

The alimentary products of the United States of Ame- 
rica are most abundant, and their consumption placed 
within the means of nearly all classes. Even the slave 
population of the south is better fed than the peasantry 
of any part of continental Europe, and luxuriously com- 
pared with a large proportion of the operatives in Great 
Britain. A full supply of animal food, usually bacon 
or salt pork and salt fish, with corn bread, is allowed to 
the slave; to which is added, either the Irish, or still 
more commonly farther south, the sweet potato; and, 
instead of corn, rice in the lower distr^^ts of Carolina 
and Georgia. In Virginia and the west, fresh meat is 
given to them not unfrequently. To most of them is 
allotted a piece of ground (a patch) for a garden, in 
which they grow sundry vegetables and fruits for their , 
own use, and not seldom for that of their masters, by 
whom they are paid at a fair price. Poultry and eggs, 
which they also have of their own, is more generally 
sold by them, either to their master's family or at the 



yGoogk 



90 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

nearest village or court-house; and with the money they 
purchase groceries and other minor luxuries, or articles 
of personal adornment. The fruit, which they raise in 
the largest quantities for their own coi)sumption and for 
sale, is the water-melon. The house slaves partake of 
the fare of their superiors, with the exception of a more 
restricted use of wheat bread; but this cannot be called 
a privation among a people with whom, as in the case 
of those of the south and west, maize is the bread-corn, 
and the preferred one of the country. The allusion to 
this class of our population has made me anticipate a 
notice of their food, by placing it first in an account of 
the dietetic regimen of the people at large of the United 
States. 

I believe that there is no other example of two of the 
chief cerealia grown over such an immense extent of 
country, and both of them used together or in alterna- 
tion by the inhabitants for their bread-corn, as we find 
in the case of wheat and Indian corn, as grown and 
eaten in the United States. Throughout most of this 
extensive range the potato is also raised and eaten. 
This superabundance of vegetable aliment of the first 
order is accompanied with nearly a corresponding sup- 
ply of animal food; and hence it may be truly said that 
the people of the United States are, in a large majority of 
them, overfed, if we compare the quantity of both vege- 
table and animal aliment which they consume with the 
quantity that is found adequate to the proper sustenance 
of large masses both in Asia and Europe. The artisan 
of our cities, and even the hired labourer in the country, 
eats meat oftener in the day than many of the farmers^ 
owners of the land in France, and substantial renters on 
shares (metayers) in Italy, eat it in the week. The kind 
of animal food of the greatest consumption, perhaps I 



yGoogk 



ANIMAL FOOD I^ THE •UNITED STATES. 91 

ought to say which is eaten over a greater extent of 
country, is the flesh of swine, salted pork in the northern 
and eastern, salted and smoked, or bacon, in the southern 
States. This is the standard article at table, sometimes 
the only one; but more commonly it is reinforised by 
either butcher's meat, or during more than half the year 
in the south and west by poultry. The supply of beef, 
mutton, and veal, in the northern and middle states, is 
abundant. In the south, bacon, poultry, and veal, are 
the chief animal substances used. Upwards of six mil- 
lions of swine are owned in Ohio, Kentucky, and Ten- 
nessee. New York has upwards of two millions; Penn- 
sylvania a million and a half; Virginia nearly two mil- 
lions. In fine, there are, according to the census Of 1840, 
upwards of twenty-three millions of swine* in the United 
States, the greater part of which may be considered to 
have been appropriated for the food of the people. The 
number of neat or horned cattle is upwards of fourteen 
millions, being more than that in Germany with her 
population of 30,000,000 of persons. The proportion 
also is much greater in this country of these animals 
killed for food than in Germany, where the requirements 
of agriculture call for a larger number of oxen, and the 
wants of the dairy for cows, than in the United States. 
In France, with a population of thirty-three millions of 
persons, there are short of 7,000,000 horned cattle, and 
about 4,000,000 swine. Of sheep, in the United States, 
the number may be estimated at between nineteen and 

* The waDt of official retaiDS from Kentucky, North Carolina, 
aod Michigan, make^ it difficult to give an accurate estimate of the 
entire products of any kind. This and the other statistical returns, 
which will be given hereafter, must therefore be regarded as ap- 
proximative, when for the whole Union. 



yGoogk 



92 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

twenty millions, but of the proportion reserved for wool 
especially, and that for. food, we are not informed. 

The number of horned cattle in Great Britain, (Eng- 
land, Wales and Scotland,) according to M'CuUoch, 
(Comm. Diet Jlrt. Cattle^) is 5,100,000. 'The propor- 
tion annually slaughtered is, he thinks, about a fourth 
part of the entire stock, which gives 1,275,000 bead 
for the supply of the kingdom: the population at the 
time was upwards of 16,000,000. The population of 
the United States is now upwards of 17,000,000. If we 
take the same proportion of horned cattle slaughtered 
as in Great Britain or a fourth, it will make our sup- 
ply upwards of five millions and a half head. But as 
our cattle in general are not as fully fed nor as heavy 
as those of England, the number of pounds of beef and 
veal is not so much greater here than there, as the 
difference in the number of cattle would seem to indi- 
cate. Even were we to suppose them one-third less 
average weight, and, considering that the difference in 
the calves is small, this would be a large allowance, 
there would seem to be nearly three pounds of beef 
and veal consumed in the United States for one pound 
of these meats consumed in Great Britain. There 
are a large number of horned cattle imported into 
England from Ireland, but this amount will be greatly 
overbalanced by that which must go to increase the 
proportion consumed by the free white citizens of the 
Union, as the field slaves, for the most part, are not re- 
gular eaters of the meats in question. Then, as regards 
hog's flesh, the quantity consumed in the United States 
should be estimated to be much more than that con- 
sumed in Great Britain; thereby increasing still farther the 
disparity between the people of the two countries on the 
score of the quantity of flesh meat used for food. Pro- 



yGoogk 



GRAIN CONSUMED IN THC UNITED STATES. 93 

bably the difference is not so great in the quantities or 
in the proportion of mutton and lamb eaten, although 
on this point I have not the data to institute a compari- 
son. Fish is largely consumed in .the United States, 
both fresh, and, still more, salted. 

The nutrimental substances derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are in peculiar abundance and variety. Wheat 
and maize are distributed over nearly the whole United 
States, from Maine to Arkansas, and are at the disposal 
of, as they to a certain extent are consumed by, all the 
inhabitants: but, in defining more accurately, we shall 
find that wheat may be called the bread-corn of the 
people of the northern and eastern States, from Virginia 
north; and maize the bread-corn of those of the southern 
and M^stern States; at the same time that maize in the 
former, and wheat in the latter, region is freely eaten. 
In quantity, Indian corn exceeds, being 360 millions of 
bushels, whilst that of wheat is about 85 millions of 
bushels; but the proportion used in feeding horses and 
stock of the former is so large that we cannot well insti- 
tute a comparison between the two, in their relative 
consumption by the people of the United States. If we 
allow eight millions of bushels of wheat including the 
quantity exported in the shape of flour, and deduct for 
seed a seventh, or 12 millions of bushels, there remains for 
consumption by the inhabitants 65 millions, or less than 
four bushels per individual yearly; but as Indian corn is in 
many States the chief bread-corn, and to the slave popu- 
lation almost entirely so, the average quantity for those 
whose bread-corn is wheat is much larger than the above; 
we mightsay nearly twice theamount,or eight bushels per 
individual. The quantity of potatoes raised in the United 
States in 1840, was about 103,000,000 bushels: as these 
constitute a part of the food given to swine, and in degree 



yGoogk 



94 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

also to horned cattle^ we have not the means of ascertain- 
ing the quantity eaten by the people; but this must be 
great, even if we make large deductions for the purposes 
just mentioned. Rye bread is eaten, but not to the exclu- 
sion of wheat or maize: it is, we must fear, chiefly appro- 
priated to the purposes of distillation, although some is 
exported. The quantity of this grain grown in 1840, in 
the United States, was about 17,000,000 bushels. That of 
barley was only 4,000,000; it is consumed almost exclu- 
sively in brewing and distillation. As might be inferred 
from the great number of horses for agriculture, the 
road, and carriages for individual pleasure, the quantity 
of oats grown in the United States is considerable, being 
about 110 millions of bushels in 1840. Buckwheat, of 
which about 8 millions of bushels were grown in 1840, 
is not used in the form of bread, but of cakes, which are 
eaten when yet warm, with butter. Rice, of which 
about 76,500,000 pounds were grown in 1840, is exported 
in large quantity, or the amount of nearly two millions 
of dollars; as food, its use is restricted mainly to the 
lowejr counties of the States in which it is grown; the 
slaves, in those parts, receive a certain allowance of rice. 
The consumption of this most wholesome and quite 
nutritive grain is increasing of late years to the north.* 

The products of the dairy are estimated at between 
34 and 35 millions of dollars, of which New York con- 
tributes nearly ten millions and a half, Vermont nearly 
five millions, Pennsylvania upwards of two millions, 
Ohio one million seven hundred thousand, Virginia, 
New Hampshire, Maine, Connecticut and New Jersey, 
each, about a million and a half; Massachusetts upwards 
of two millions of dollars. 

• The entire exports of ** Vegetable Food" from the United 
States in 1840, have been reported to amount to j^l 5,587,657. 



yGoogk 



GREAT EATING AHD FAST SATING. 95 

With such a superabundance, as I have already said^ 
of aliment of all kinds, procurable by all classes above 
destitution, it is natural that the Americans should be 
great eaters; one man consuming as much animal food 
in a day as would support three labouring men in Eu- 
rope; and, together with vegetables and bread, taking 
also his glass of milk and no small quantity of pie or 
pudding, with often fruit afterwards. A man in harvest 
time, in almost any of the States, eats at his three meals, 
more, in nutritive amount, than would constitute luxu- 
rious living for eight Elast Indian or Chinese palanquin 
bearers for a week. In addition to the quantity, the 
time for consumption of food by our people is surprising, 
the latter being, however, in its brevity, in the inverse 
ratio of the former. Often, also, the rapidity with which 
a meal is dispatched seems but a signal for entire cessa- 
tion from all labour, even that of thought, for some time 
afterwards. Thus, it is common enough for men of active 
business habits to make an onslaught on a well furnished 
table for about five to ten minutes, during which brief 
period they swallow, we will not say masticate, for they 
seem to consider their teeth as quite unnecessary instru- 
ments, with a fearful rapidity, parts of half a dozen of 
dishes. This feat accomplished, for really a simple 
Hindoo or Chinese would suppose it must be a piece of 
juggleryi these thankless consumers of the gifts of Pro- 
vidence, in place of rushing out from the table to their 
several marts of trade, as their first inordinate haste 
would seem to indicate, will be seen to seat themselves 
very leisurely, and, with their feet up and head thrown 
back, to puff away at their segars, for the next hour, 
with a gravity and an appearance of want of all 
care, which would do credit to the most orthodox fol- 



yGoogk 



96 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

lower of Mohamed, when enjoying his modicam of 
opium, and perchance dreaming the while of his being 
suddenly made a pasha of three tails, and having the 
plunder of a province at his disposal. But not to smoking 
only or the more noxious in hself, and more obnoxious to 
others, chewing of tobacco, do our people rely for help- 
ing digestion, as they call it, and for rousing their dor- 
mant sensibilities after their anaconda repast. Wines 
and spirituous liquors, the diflference between the two 
being as 20 per cent, is to 50 per cent, of alcohol, are 
freely had recourse to; the first by the wealthier few, 
the latter by the many, in both town and country; and 
potations of various degrees of strength and frequency 
are indulged in. The time was, when the description of 
the drinking habits of the Scandinavians would have 
been strictly applicable to those of the American people; 
but happily, and to Providence be our gratitude due, if 
we thank him for anything, a change is coming over the 
land, slow, indeed, but regular and efficient, mild in its 
means, but powerful and deep iu its effects. 

Prodigally supplied as our country is with such a 
variety of esculent vegetables, which alone abate the 
thirst that animal food is calculated to excite, and with 
fruits of the finest flavour, of which all have it in their 
power to partake, there is less excuse for us than for the 
inhabitants of some other lands to endeavour to vary 
the pleasures of the palate by fermented and distilled 
liquors. The exciting property of the air of our climate, 
noticed by more than one intelligent and observing 
foreigner, might of itself forbid the use of these arti- 
ficial stimulants, to a people especially, who are singu- 
larly excitable, and who require no physical incentive 
to that incessant activity in which they delight. The 
young and spirited horse, and even the well-broken 



yGoogk 



IN MSXICO— VKNSZUSUL 97 

courser require the rein and the bit more than the spur. 
We, of all people on the &ce of the earth, want brief 
space, snatches of calmness, for meditation and reyision, 
but no goading; and yet goads and spurs are slight ex- 
ternal excitants compared with the internal, driving and 
bewildering stimulants derived from alcoholic mixtures. 
But on tliis point, as connected with our national regi- 
men^ I shall speak with more fuUiess in the chapter on 
<« Drinks.'' 

The account of the food of the people of the other 
nations on the American continent will be brie£ The 
food of the working people of Mexico is Indian com, 
prepared either as porridge (a/afe), or in thin cakes, 
{tortiUas)j and beans (Jrijolea), like the white beans so 
much in use in France, with the addition of chUe,a spe- 
cies of hot pepper, of which they eat enormous quanti- 
ties by way of seasoning. In the towns, wheat forms a 
part of the food of the lower classes, and meat occa- 
sionally. Cassava (manioc) contributes lai^ly to the 
food, indeed is the chief aliment, of a great number of 
the half-civilized rural population of Indians. The same 
may be said of the banana, which, according to Hum- 
boldt, is to the inhabitants of the torrid zone what the 
cereal grasses— wheat, barley and rye— are to West- 
ern Asia and Europe, and what the numerous varieties 
of rice are to India and China. It is calculated, that the 
same extent of ground in Mexico, on which the banana: 
is raised, is capable of maintaining My individuals; 
whereas in Europe, under wheat, it would not furnish 
subsistence for two: and nothing strikes a traveller more 
than the diminutive appearance of the spots under cul- 
ture round a hut which contains a numerous family. 
(Humboldt^a Personal Narrative, Family Library, 
LIV, p. 328-9.) 
9 



yGoogk 



98 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAGES. 

In Venezuela and New Grenada^ maize cakes, with 
vegetables, form the chief aliment of the peon and his 
family. But animal food, though not, perhaps, regu- 
larly, is largely consumed by the people in various parts 
of these countries, drawing as they do immense supplies 
of cattle from the table plains, or the Llanos. Some of 
the great proprietors possess 14,000 head of cattle; and 
although the chief mercantile value of these animals is 
for their hide, yet those who will take the trouble, must 
readily find abundant food from their flesh, both in its 
fresh state> and when dried in the sun. There are half 
as many cattle slaughtered in Caraccas as in Paris, 
though the population is not a twentieth of that of the 
latter 'City; and hence, in Caraccas, as well as Cartha- 
gena, the food of the labouring men is, in greater part, 
animal. The banana grows in the same spontaneous 
abundance as in Mexico, and is, by the people of the 
interior, as highly prized as it is by their northern 
neighbours. But so imperfect is the supply of cereal 
grains, that large quantities of flour are imported into 
Colombia from the United States. 

The Peruvians eat maize as their bread-corn and 
staple food, in the various forms of bread, puddings, 
porridge and roasted grain. They are fond of mixed 
dishes, such as the olla podrida and the chupe; the latter 
a mixture of fish, eggs, cheese, potatoes, and onions, 
eaten from a common dish in the middle of the table* 
Peru is generally supposed to be the native country of 
the potato, a variety of which (Papas amarillas) is 
deemed superior to any other; but it is an indifferent 
bearer. The vine flourishes in the neighbourhood of 
Pisco, and bears excellent grapes; the wine from which 
is, however, indifferent. Brandy, to the amount of 
150,000 gallons, is said to be manufactured from the 
fine grapes in this district. 



yGoogk 



IN CHILI — BRAZIL — LA PLATA. 99 

The people of Chili, by a better agriculture than their 
neighbours, raise fine wheat, and supply even Peru and 
Guayaquil with it. Potatoes, also, grow in perfection. 
Among the fruits which are good and abundant, grapes 
merit special mention. But, as pasture prevails over 
tillage, and the cattle farms are the most numerous, 
animal food is abundant and easily procured. Our 
admired vinegar, which derives its name from Chili, is 
made from the juice of a grape peculiar to the country. 

Brazil, with its vast extent of fertile lands and capa- 
bilities for every kind of agriculture, does not furnish 
any of the cerealia in adequate quantity for the food of 
the people. The chief reliance is on the cassava or 
manioc, on which and kidney-beans the Indians and 
negroes are chiefly fed. Maize is less used than in other 
warm climates of America. Rice is grown, and con- 
sumed in a limited degree in Maranham. Cattle^ abun- 
dant in the southern provinces, are prized more for their 
hides than their flesh, although the latter is to a certain 
extent, dried, and sent to the northern part of Brazil for 
aliment. 

In Guiana, the sweet potato, {Convolvoltis bat^ 
tatas^) is a useful article of food, as it is in many other 
parts of South America. 

In the Provinces of La Plata, or the Argentine Re- 
public^ of which Buenos Ayres is the capital and head, 
the use of meat is general among all classes, and is con- 
sumed by all, to an astonishing extent. Such is the 
abundance of both cattle and horses, that in this coun- 
try the anomaly may occasionally be met with of a 
beef-eating beggar asking alms on horseback. Beef is 
almost the only food; the proportion of wheat bread, 
the kind used, being exceedingly small. In the city of 



yGoogk 



100 NATIONAL DIETETIC USAOES. 

Buenos Ayres, flour, to a large amount, is imported 
from the United States, for the consumption of the in- 
habitants. The beef is roasted, or rather twisted, on 
large spita stuck in the floor, in a slanting direction, so 
as to overhang the fire, a twist being, from time to time, 
given to expose all sides of the meat in succession; and 
slices are then cut out by the surrounding family. Per- 
sons from Europe and the United States^ accustomed to 
a refined cookery, join in praising the superior flavour 
of the beef of La Plata; and as preferable to the flesh 
of stall-fed and pampered oxen at home. It is that 
of cattle which graze in the extensive plains (Pampas) 
where they meet with a rich and abundant pasturage, 
and where they are caught by the Guachos, with their 
lassos, whenever needed. An epicurean dish is made 
by roasting a piece of beef in the stilt adhering skin or 
hide, in which it is sewed up by the cook: this is 
removed before the meat is served up. In flavour 
and juiciness it can only be rivalled by the kid or 
iamb of the Arabs> when dressed in the manner already 
described. 

Great quantities of the South American beef are pre- 
served by drying in the sun, and sUghtly salting it In 
this state of jerked beef, it is exported to a considerable 
amount; the best market being that of the Havana, 
whence it is sent into the country for food to the negroes 
on the plantations. 

Intoxicating drink, of some kind or other, is used 
freely, and with its customary enfeebling and demo* 
ralising efiects, by the aborigines and mixed races in 
Mexico and South America. The reader of Mr. Ste- 
phens's Travels in Central America, must be surprised 
at the frequent repetition of notices of drunkenness 
among the people in that region, rivaling fully what he 



yGoogk 



PULQUE-^PARA&UAT TEA. 101 

is accustomed to see and hear of at home. The Indians 
are, however, the greatest sufferers in this way. 

The maguey (Agave Americana) is extensively cul- 
tivated, as far as the Aztec language extends, in Mexico, 
for the express purpose of converting its juice into a 
spirituous liquor, (pulque.) The juice or honey, pro- 
cured by incisions into the nascent flowers, has an agree- 
able acid taste, and easily ferments, on account of the 
sugar and mucilage which abound in it. This process, 
which is accelerated by adding a little old pulque, ends 
in three or four days; and the result is a liquor re- 
sembling cider, but with a very unpleasant smell, like 
that of putrid meat. A very intoxicating brandy, called 
mexical, which in some districts is manufactured to a 
great extent, is also obtained from it. In Peru, maize 
is converted, by fermentation, into a liquor called chica. 

The Paraguay tea, yerva matl^ prepared from a 
shrub of the family of the holly, is the common beverage 
for all classes in Paraguay and the Provinces of La 
Plata; and its use must be regarded as one of the fea- 
tures of the dietetic regimen of the people of these 
countries. Under the head of Drinks, I may, perhaps, 
give some details respecting its mode of preparation and 
the fashion of drinking it. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER V. 



VEGETABLE FOOD. 



Proximate nutritive principles of vegetables— Gluten — Vegetable 
• albumen— Starch— Gum and mucilage— Yeast — Sugar— Oil. Fa- 
rinaceous Seeds — The Cerealu. Their con4>osition— Proportion 
of gluten, starch, &c. in each of them— Predominance of starch in 
grains, legumes and potatoes, cassava, &c.— Dietetic hints from a 
knowledge of these proximate principles— Variety with simplicity 
— Rice, its region — Supports more people than any other of the 
cerealia— Maize, its geographical range— Large consumption o^ 
in America — Wheat, its native region— Importance— Gtuantity 
grown and consumed in Great Britain, France, and the United 
States— Rye— Its range— Most abundant in northern countries— Is 
the bread-corn of the people of northern Europe, Germany, and 
part of France— Barley— Its antiquity— Consumption of, in malt 
liquors— Abstraction of food by this means— Oats — a northern 
grain — largely used by the people of Scotland and Ireland — ^also 
of France— Is used in distillation— Buckwheat— Used in parts of 
Germany, America, and France. 

Before I speak of the vegetable substances in detail, 
which constitute the food of mankind, it will be proper 
to point out their proximate nutritive principles. We 
soon discover that these are few in number, and that 
grains and roots, even of apparently diverse nature, as 
they certainly are of different flavour, consist very nearly 
of the same proximate elements or principles. The chief 
nutritive principles in vegetables are, gluteuy starch or 
fecula, sugary gum or mucilage and oi7, on the quan- 
tity and different proportions of which depend their ali- 



yGoogk 



OLUTEN-^YEOETABLS ALBUHEIT. 103 

mentary properties. Some of these principles may be 
exhibited in the familiar process of making starch from 
wheat flour. If we take a paste of moistened flour, 
enclosed in a piece of linen, and pour water, in a slow 
stream on it, whilst we press it in the hand at the same 
time, the fluid carries ofi" a part of the flour, and leaves 
nothing behind in the bag but a tenacious gray sub- 
stance, called gluten. The water, which we will sup- 
pose to have been received in a vessel below, has car- 
ried off" the starch or fecula: this gradually fells to the 
bottom of the vessel, and there remain, in a state of 
solution in the water, some gum and sugar. 

Gluteuy as it is commonly met with, is a mixture of 
gluten and vegetable albumen; and hence this last is to 
be regarded as one of the proximate principles of nutri- 
tive vegetable matter. It is to the presence of gluten 
that wheat flour owes its property of forming a tena- 
cious paste with water; and to it also is owing the for- 
mation of a light spongy bread; the carbonic acid or 
fixed air, which is disengaged during the fermentation 
of the dough being detained by the viscid gluten, dis- 
tends the whole mass, by separating its parts from 
each other, and thus produces the rising of the dough. 
Gluten most abounds in wheat, and hence the superi- 
ority of the flour of this grain over all others for making 
bread. It is also met with, but in smaller proportions, 
in tye and other grains. 

Vegetable albumen resembles animal albumen, re- 
presented by the white of egg, in its being readily coagu- 
Jable by heat. It is found in wheat, rye, barley, peas 
and beans; and is an ingredient in both the bitter and 
sweet almond and in the emulsive seeds. During a 
certain period of its putrefaction, when it is subjected to 
a change of this nature, it has the odour of old cheese. 



yGoogk 



104 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

It will answer for all practical purposes if we speak 
of gluten in grain as consisting of pure gluten and vege- 
table albumen. Gluten, from its resemblance in some 
particulars to fibrin, which is the basis of muscular flesh 
the most nutritive part of meat, has been called a vege- 
to-animal principle. Its analogy to animal matter is 
shown in its containing nitrogen or azote as one of its 
ultimate elements. 

Starchy which we have seen to form a component 
part of wheat flour, is, also, one of the chief ingredients 
of most varieties of grain, of some roots, such as the 
potato, and of the kernels of leguminous plants, (peas, 
beans, &c.) In fact it makes up the bulk of these arti- 
cles, and is the chief nutritive principle in all of them. 
Pure starch is insipid and inodorous, of a white colour, 
and insoluble in alcohol, ether, and cold water. Boiling 
water acts upon it readily, converting it into a tenacious 
bulky jelly. In a large quantity of hot water, it is dis- 
solved completely, and is not deposited on cooling. 
Starch, modified by heat, is called amidine. With 
water and a little sulphuric acid, starch is converted 
into a saccharine matter; in fact, more than half of its 
bulk is convertible into sugar. By the process of malt- 
ing, grain, as barley, owing to the large quantity of 
starch in its composition, is partly converted into sugar. 
A peculiar proximate principle, which they call hor- 
deiuj is spoken of by some chemists as existing in bar- 
ley; but there is good reason to regard it as a modifica- 
tion of starch. 

The invalid who would shrink at the idea of taking 
potato starch boiled in water for a meal, will be slow to 
credit the fact that this is little diflferent from the prized 
tapioca, arrow, sago or salep, all of which consist almost 
entirely of starch, on which their nutritive properties 



yGoogk 



GUM — ^TSAST— SUGAR— OIL. 105 

exclusively depend, reinforced somewhat by a aiinnte 
proportion of gum in their composition. 

Chum is a common proximate principle of vegetables, 
and: is not confined to any particular part of the plant. 
Th€i purest variety is gum arable. Gum softens when 
put in water, and then dissolves, forming a viscid solu- 
tion Mucilage is not soluble, but forms a thick paste 
with water. 

Yeast appears as a frothy, flocculent, somewhat viscid 
matter, which rises to the surface during the vinous fer- 
mentation of vegetable juices and decoctions. It is in- 
soluble in alcohol, and in a warm, moist atmosphere 
gradually putrefies — a sufficient proof that azote or ni- 
trogen is one of its elements, and of its analogy to animal 
matter. It is supposed to be closely allied to gluten. 
Submitted to a moderate heat it becomes dry and hard, 
and may in this state be preserved without change. 
The most remarkable property of yeast is that of excit- 
ing, fermentation. By exposure for a few minutes to 
the heat of boiling water, it loses this property, but after 
some time again acquires it. 

Sugar is ^n abundant vegetable product, existing in 
a limited degree in some of the grains, and in ripe fruits, 
also in the beet-root, but most abundantly in the juice of 
the sugar-cane and sugar-maple. Fermentation for mak- 
ing bread is dependent on sugar, as is likewise that for the 
manufacture of vinous and malt liquors. Sugar is quite 
nutritive. As a vegetable substance contributing to the 
food of man, I shall speak of it in a subsequent chapter. 

Oil is a very abundant principle in some vegetables, 
and* particularly in the nut tribe, (olive, walnut, &c.), 
and certain seeds, as flaxseed. It is closely related to 
animal oil and to butter. 

The first and most important by far of the seeds 



yGoogk 



106 VEGETABLE 700D. 

termed farinaceous^ are those procured from the culti- 
vated grasses; they are styled Cerealia, corn-plants, or 
grain-bearing plants. That one among them, upon 
which any people depend chiefly for its food is called 
by that people corn; as wheat in England; oats in the 
northern lowlands of Scotland; tye in the sandy districts 
on the southern shores of the Baltic Sea, and maize 
throughout the United States, and in America generally. 
I have already adverted to the community of proxi- 
mate principles in different nutritive vegetable sub- 
stances. The remark is strictly applicable to the cere- 
alia, as will be seen by the following table of the 
proportions in a hundred parts of some of the chief 
principles, viz: gluten, starch, sugar and gum, and some- 
times albumen. 

Gluten. Starch. Sugar. Gum. Albumen. 

Wheat,* 7 to 144 56 to 72 4 to 8J 2 to 6 

Rye, 5 to 9 60 3J 11 3 

Barley, 3§ 67 5 4i 1 

Bitter matter and sugar. 
Oats, 59 8J 2J 4 

Rice, 84 

Maize, chiefly starch and some sugar. 

We shall better appreciate the nutritive properties of 

* The proportions of the proximate principles of wheat are the 
mean of those given by Vauqueiin, of the wheat of Odessa and of 
the Paris bakers. The lowest per centage of gluten was 7.30, in 
the soft wheat of Odessa; and the highest 14.55, of the hard 
wheat from the same place. The water was from 8 to 10 per 
cent., and the bran from 1.20 to 2.30 per cent. Einhoff made the 
analysis of rye and of barley: in the former of which grain there 
was husky matter or woody fibre, 6.38; and in the latter, fibrous 
matter, composed of gluten, starch, and woody fibre, 7.29 per cent. 
Hordein, which some chemists have spoken of as a peculiar prin- 
ciple in barley, is little else than a modification of starch and lig- 
neous fibre; it is found chiefly in the bran. 



yGoogk 



VARIETr AND SIMPLICITr. 107 

the cerealia, by extending a notice of proximate prin- 
ciples, so as to include the leguminous seeds and the 
nutritive tubers. Beans and peas consist chiefly of 
starch, with some sugar and oil. Potatoes are com- 
posed of a dry matter, in the proportion of 24 to 30 
per cent., and the remainder water. The dry matter 
consists of starch, 13 to 15 per cent.; fibrous matter, 2 
to 9; vegetable albumen, 1 to 2; gum, sugar and salts, 
2 to 9; water, 70 to 80. Starch is, we see, the nutritive 
principle on which depends the alimentary properties 
of the potato. By this same principle, this root ap- 
proximates to the cassava or tapioca plant, from which 
tapioca or nearly pure starch is procured; to sweet po- 
tato, with the starch of which sugar is combined; to 
arrow-rooty to Tousles Mois, and to sago, all three of 
which consist almost entirely of starch. So close is the 
resemblance, that frequently potato-starch is sold for 
arrow-root; and it has been prepared and sold under 
the name of English arrow-root in England, as it has 
under that of potato-sago near Paris. 

After this preliminary statement of the chief proxi- 
mate and nutritive principles in vegetable substances 
used, for food, the reader will be better prepared to see, 
that, whilst nature varies so much the geographical 
range of plants from which mankind procure theu: 
food, the essential differences are not near so great as 
would at first appear. Perhaps a knowledge of this 
fact may prevent yoimg persons from unreasonable 
prepossessions in favour of any particular grain or 
root, to the exclusion of, or prejudice against, 
others equally as good and as nutritive, and quite 
as palatable. Vegetable chemistry shows, also, that a 
diet exclusively vegetable may, as it generally does, 
embrace a variety of proximate principles; and that 



yGoogk 



108 VEOSTABLE FOOD. 

sitnplieit7 of dtet does not imply the use, exclusiyely, 
of any one of these principles. Health could not be 
maintained by such a course; on the contrary, variety 
is indispensably necessary, and, happily, it is procured 
by even the poorest and most wretched. They who 
restrict themselves, for example, to wheat, eat,' to- 
gether with the chief nutritive principle starch, a por- 
tion of gluten, which is analogous to animal flesh, iknd 
some sugar and gum, both of which are nutritious, and, 
combined with the preceding principles, give a very 
good variety. The eaters of rice cannot procure fprom 
this grain these advantages; but, almost always, they 
add to it another important and quite active proximate 
principle, which may be called the oleaginous, such as 
vegetable oil, or occasionally animal oil or fat. Milk 
represents, as will be seen hereafter, three proximate 
animal principles, having strongly nutritive properties; 
and either it or one of its important principles, butter or 
cheese, is consumed as food to a very great e^^ent 
by pastoral people, as well as by the majority of: the 
inhabitants of agricultural countries. Fruits, so abun- 
dant and rich in sugar and mucilage, in those regions 
in which vegetable is nearly the sole aliment of; the 
people, make a pleasant and wholesome additioji to 
their corn or leguminous food. In the date for in- 
stance, which we shall soon see is so highly prized for 
its nutrimental properties by so many different pe<^ple, 
these two principles abound; and hence, the addition of 
a very limited supply of farinaceous matter, derived 
from rice or millet, will suffice for all their alimentary 
wants. 

The physician prescribing and the invalid resorting to 
a vegetable diet, for the prevention or cure of disease, 
may well derive from the above remarks a salutary hint 



yGoogk 



CEREALIA — RICE. 109 

They will see, that a palatable variety is both admis- 
sible and healthful; and that fault is often found with 
this kind of diet, when the blame really attaches to the 
exclusive use of one article, or even aliment. The 
saccharine will disagree with some, and be salutary to 
others, — or, as the chief portion, it will be hurtful,-* 
secondary and in small quantities, useful, and so of the 
amylaceous or starchy, and the oleaginous, &c. Farthei^ 
extension will be given to these views, when some ad- 
ditional nutritive proximate animal principles are intro- 
duced in the chapter on animal food. 

Farinaceous seeds are divided into two classes; the 
first are the true grasses, or plants styled Cerealia, 
com plants or grain-growing plants. The second di- 
vision of farinaceous seeds, is also 3delded by plants of 
annual growth, styled leguminous^ or podded, and 
likewise known under the general name of pulse. The 
chief nutritive portion in all these, is the proximate vege- 
table principle, starch or fecula. The chief plants of the 
cerealia are wheat, rye, barley, oats, millet, rice and 
maize, which spread, in various proportions, and in dif- 
ferent zones, respectively, over nearly all parts of the 
inhabited globe, are evidences of culture by the hand 
of man, and means for his support. First in importance 
to the people who boast of the highest civilization, and 
who sway in a measure the destinies of the rest of the 
world, is wheat: but if we regard only the numbers to 
whom rice is the chief food, the latter would be entitled 
to the first consideration. 

Rice, (0;yza&i/fwa.)— Taking zones of the earth 
in which the several grains most abound, we find that 
rice is chiefly and most successfully cultivated in the 
tropical and contiguous warm regions, as in central 
Asia and Africa, including the islands, and the greater 
10 



yGoogk 



110 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

part of China and Hindostan, Egypt lind northern 
Africa. It is, also, grown in southern Europe, as in 
Naples, and the low grounds of Lombardy, in Italy, 
and in Valencia in Spain; and in Temeswar, in the 
Austrian empire, and in the low grounds of the 
Danube, to its mouth. In America, its culture extends as 
far north as Virginia, but it is most abundant in Georgia 
and South Carolina. From the earliest records, rice 
has formed the principal, if not the only food of the 
great mass of the population on the continent and 
islands of India, and throughout the Chinese and 
Japanese empires. In Persia, it is in general use. 
Its introduction into Carolina, dates only from the be- 
ginning of the last century, or not a hundred and fifty 
years ago. This grain is chiefly cultivated in low and 
marshy, or alluvial soils, which, under other circum*- 
stances, would have repelled habitation, and been an 
insuperable bar to population. So superior is this kind 
of soil for its production, that rice is produced from 
lands, either natiurally or artificially irrigated, in firom 
five to ten times the quantity greater than that from 
dry land having no command of water. But, on the 
other hand, owing to the occurrence of severe droughts, 
there is a more alarming diminution of rice, than in 
most other species of grain; and hence, a people who, 
like the Hindoos, depend almost entirely on it for sub- 
sistence, are placed in a very precarious situation. 
There can be no doubt that famines are at once more 
frequent and more severe in Hindoostan, than in any 
other part of the world. To a certain extent those 
means may be obviated by the culture of the hill or 
upland rice, which is grown on the cold mountains of 
Nepaul. 
In 1830, the entries for home consumption of rice^ in 



yGoogk 



RICE — MILLET. Ill 

Great Britain, amounted to 153,652 cwt. of cleaned, 
and 189,249 cwt. of rough grain; but in the years 1632 
and 1833, there was a considerable reduction of diis 
amount. 

The Carolina is preferred] to any other variety, in 
the Western, as the Damietta is in the eastei'n hemi- 
sphere. The product of rice, in the United States, in 
1840, was upwards of 76 millions of pounds, of which 
Greorgia cultivated nearly 60 millions, and South Caro- 
lina more than 12 millions. The value of rice exported 
in 1840, was a little under two millions of dollars. 

Millet is, in some respects, in direct contrast with 
rice, but not so much in regard to the climate, for it is 
most abundant in warm countries, as because in light 
sandy soils, under the scorching rays of the sun, and in 
situations where sufficient moisture cannot be obtained 
for the production of rice, millet is successfully culti- 
vated. Sorghumy its botanical name, forms a chief de- 
pendence of the people in some parts of India, through 
the arid districts of Arabia and Syria, where it has been 
J^roduced from the earliest periods; in Nubia, whose 
inhabitants cultivate this almost to the exclusion of 
every other grain, and in central Africa. Millet is sup- 
posed to be originally derived from India. Of the two 
varieties of millet, the Germany (Sitavia Oermaniea,) 
is cultivated in the north of Europe, as in Germany. 
The second variety, the Italian^ {Sitavia Italia^) is 
undoubtedly a native of India, where it bears the name 
of congue. In Tuscany, this grain is used for feeding 
domestic fowls and animals, including horses. The 
Italians, also, make from the flour a kind of bread, 
which is dark-coloured and coarse. Parched Millet is 
the species most usually cultivated. The commonest 
variety, which botanists call Sorghum vulgare^ is 



yGoogk 



112 VEOETABLE FOOD. 

known in India by the name of Jovaree; in Egypt and 
Nubia^ dhourra; and in the British West Indies, 
Guinea corn. Millet is cultivated largely in some parts 
of China, and in Cochin China. In the barren districts 
of Bornou, a species of millet is produced, which is 
called, by the inhabitants, ^^t^^ud, and upon which both 
men and animals are almost exclusively fed. By the 
poorer class, it is frequently eaten, simply parched, or 
even without any culinary preparation. Other persons 
crush and then steep the seeds in water previously to 
eating them, and some few, who are the epicures of the 
land, clean the grain from the husk,pou&d it, and make 
it up into a light paste, with melted &t: this &vourite 
dish is called <^ kaddeU^ The Nubians are accustomed 
to prepare a fermented liquor from dhourra, which they 
call bouzahy and by them is considered to be a whole- 
some and nutritious beverage. The juice is often simply 
sucked from the stalk, which last, when dried, serves 
the purpose of fuel: its leaves afford food for cattle. 

Maize, {Zea Mays.) — Indian corn has the widest 
geographical range of all the cerealia: it occupies a 
middle space between rice and wheat; flourishing with 
the former, in the tropic^ regions, and with the latter 
in more temperate latitudes. It grows luxuriantly at 
the equator, and as far as the 50th degree of north, 
and 40th of south latitude. It requires, for its most pro- 
ductive cultivation, a rich soil, and a moist and warm 
air, analogous to that for rice, and by which the grain 
of wheat would be subjected to rust and premature de- 
velopment and decay; at the same time, however, that 
it will grow, so as to meet the expectations of the hus- 
bandman, on lands, in more northern countries that 
are fitted also for the culture of wheat, which, in 
this case, alternates with corn in the rotation o^ crops. 



yGoogk 



MAIZE— INDIAN COHN — WHEAT. 118 

For the sustenance of man, corn is of scarcely less im- 
portance than rice. It forms a principal food of a large 
portion of the inhabitants of the United States, at a dis- 
tance from the seaboard, from New England to Florida: 
it constitutes the bread-corn of the Mexicans, and peo- 
ple of Central America, and of South America, and its 
consumption in Africa is equal in extent to that of rice 
in the same quarter. In tropical America it bears the 
same relation to the food of the people, which rice does 
to those of the corresponding region in Asia. The 
Indians and Mestizoes, who form a large proportion 
of the inhabitants of Mexico, feed on maize and 
manihot (cassava), the consumption of wheat being 
principally confined to the white inhabitants of the 
towns. In southern Europe, particularly in Turkey 
and Italy, it is also largely grown, and even in France, 
contributes largely to the support of the people. The 
poan and j&hnny-cake are as familiar household words 
in North America, as those of tortiUasy in Central 
America, in reference to cakes of Indian com. A 
chemist, says Humboldt, would have some difficulty 
in preparing the innumerable variety of spirituous, acid, 
or saccharine beverages, which the Indians (of Mexico) 
and South America display a peculiar address in making, 
by infusing the grain of maize, in which the saccharine 
matter begins to develope itself by germination. These 
beverages, generally known by the name of chicha, 
have some of them a resemblance to beer, and others 
to cider. One marked advantage which Indian com 
has over other grain, is its almost entire immunity from 
disease, such as mildew, rust, &c 

The quantity grown in the United States, in 1840, 
was 360 millions of bushels. 

Wheat, (IW/icum.)— This grain, by universal con- 
ic* 



yGoogk 



114 TSCWTABLE FOOD* 

sent, is held in the highest estimation of all ihe cerealia« 
The bread made from its flour is preferred, wherever 
people have a choice between It and other &rina; for 
wheat flour alone, by the gluten which it contains, is 
capable of ready ferm^tation, and, consequently, has 
more grateful flavour, and ready digestibility. 

Some writers regard the plains of Thibet, and the ad- 
joining regions of the Himalaya range,as the native coun- 
try of wheat; but in this latter point there is no agreement 
of opinion. The progress of the culture of wheat has 
followed very much that of civilization, from the plains 
of Babylon and Egypt to Great Britain and North 
America. At present^ although it is found in Persia, 
Northern India, Arabia, Nubia, Egypt, and Barbary, 
and even in Houssa, (Central Africa,) it yields, in the 
extent of its growth and cultivation, to rice and maize. 
In Southern Europe, as in Portugal, Spain, that part of 
France which borders on the Mediterranean, Italy and 
Greece, it alternates with maize, and occasionally, as in 
Lombardy, with rice. In, the greater part of France, 
England, the southern part of Scotland, part, of Ger- 
many and Hungary, Poland^ Russia, and the lands of 
Western and Middle Asia, wheat is the chief grain 
with most of the people of these countries, and the 
principal material used for human food. In North 
America, wheat is cultivated from the table lands of 
Mexico to Upper Canada, in an almost uninterrupted 
line, if we avoid the low grounds of Louisiana and 
Alabama, and those of the southern Atlantic States, in 
some of which sugar, in others rice, has the preference 
as an article for agricultural labour. In South America, 
Spanish conquest, which was productive of so many 
atrocities, and the blackest injustice practised on tte 
aboriginal inhabitants, brought with it some compensa- 



yGoogk 



WHEAT IK SOUTH AMXBLCA. 115 

tioQ, by the introduction of the cnlture of wheat The 
foundation of the wheat harvests in Mexico, is said to 
have been three or four grains, which a slave of Cortez 
discovered, in 1530, mixed accidentally with a quantity 
of rice. The name of the Spanish lady, Maria d'Es- 
cobar, wife of Diego de Alvares, who first imparted the 
same blessing to Peru, by oonvejring a few grains of 
wheat to Lima, and carefully distributing the produce 
of successive harvests, as seed among the formers, is 
gratefully preserved in the records of history. The 
first grains of wheat which reached Quito, were con- 
veyed thither by Father Josse iRixi, a Fleming, who 
sowed them near the monastery of St. Francis, where 
the monks still preserve and show, as a precious relic, 
the rude earthen pot wherein the seeds first reached 
thdr establishment. 

In Mexico, the cereal grains are never cultivated, as 
we learn from Humboldt, at a lower elevation than 
from 2500 to 3000 feet above the level of the sea. This 
writer estimates that three hundred and ninety*six feet 
of vertical elevation in tropical regions, are equal to a 
degree of latitude farther north. There are, however, 
other circumstances independently of latitude and eleva- 
tioD, which determine the fructification of wheat; since 
in Guatimala, which is nearer the equator, and at a 
much lower level than the first wheat lands of Xalapa, 
this grain comes to perfection. The exposed situation 
of a district, and the prevalence of cool winds, serve to 
modify the adverse influence of a tropical latitude. 
Thus^ Humboldt relates that he has seen in the province 
of Caraccas, the finest harvests of wheat near Victoria, 
(latitude 10° 13' N.) at a 500 or 600 metres (1640 to 
1960 feet) of absolute elevation; and it appears that the 
wheaten fields which surround the Quattro Villas, in 



yGoogk 



116 V£aSTABL£ VOOD. 

Ihe island of Cuba, (latitude 21^ 58' N.) have a still less 
elevatioQ. 

la New HoUaiid, wheat is an abundant article of 
cultifration with the Anglo-Australian inhabitants of 
that immense region. This single fact would almost 
suffice to enable us to predict the wealth and power 
which await the descendents of its present inhabitants, 
of the white race. 

«The finest samples of wheat are small in the berry, 
thin skinned, fresh, plump, and bright, slipping readily 
through the fingers.'^ It is calculated that the average 
weight of the bushel of good English wheat is 58i lbs., 
and that the average yield of flour is 13 lbs. of flour to 
14 lbs. of grain. Another estimate is as follows: — A 
bushel of wheat of the average weight (60 lbs.) will 
yield, on being ground, of bread flour 47 pounds, fine 
pollard 4i, coarse pollard 4, bran 2|; loss of weight in 
the process of grinding and dressing 2 pounds. 

Whenever an abundant supply of good wheat con- 
verted into flour can be procured by a people, a favour- 
able conclusion may be drawn of their health and capa- 
bilities of labour. Hence, in a hygienic point of view, 
the calculations of the average consumption, by each 
individual in a country, of wheat or its equivalent 
nutritive grain, are not without interest. The estimate 
made by Mr. Charles Smith, in 1765, of the annual 
consumption of grain reduced to the standard of wheat, 
being one quarter or eight bushels for each individual, 
is confirmed by later writers, and is thought by Mr. 
M^CuUoch (Diaionary of Commerce, &c., Amer. edit) 
to be applicable at the present time. He believes that 
the annual average amount of different kinds of grain 
consumed in the United Kingdom — Great Britain and 
Ireland— is not less tham/oriy'/our millions of bushels. 



yGoogk 



WHEAT IN GREAT BRITAIN. 117 

exdusive of seed, and at fifty^two millions when it is 
included. The population in this calculation is supposed 
to be sixteen millions. In the above amount of grain, or 
com, as the English writers call it, 1,860,000 quarters of 
peas and beans are included. The proportion of wheat 
in the whole is twelve millions of quarters. It is believed 
that a very large proportion, perhaps a half of the entire 
com (grain) produced in the empire, is never brought to 
market, but is partly consumed by the agriculturist and 
partly used as seed, and in the feeding of horses, &c. The 
importation of grain into Great Britain was 3,500,000 
quarters in 1831, which is above the average in former 
years. This amount is nearly equivalent to about a 
seventh of the entire produce brought to market in an 
average year, and must, as Mr. M'CuUoch properly 
remarks, have a very material influence in alleviating 
the pressure of scarcity in a bad year, and in cheddug 
the rise of prices. Thequantityof grain of all kinds sent 
from Ireland to Great Britain was, in 1835, 2,669,013 
quarters, of which 661,776 quarters were of wheat, and 
1,822,706 quarters of oats. 

The proportion of persons fed on the different species 
of grain was estimateid by Dr. Colquhoun in 1812 to be 
as follows:— Wheat, 9,000,000; barley, l,500/)00; oats^ 
4,500; rye, 500,000; beans and peas, 500,000. Of these 
the proportion to each person was of wheat, 1 quarter 
or 8 bushels; of barley, H or 10 bushels; of oats, li or 
10 buahds; beans and peas, 1 quarter or 8 bushels. Mr. 
M'Cnlloch thinks that Dr. Colquhoun has underrated 
the consumption of oats by at least one half-quarter in 
the consumption of each of the 4,500,000 he supposes to 
be fed by them, or by 2,250,000 quarters, or 18,000,000 
of bushels. 



yGoogk 



118 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

The progressive increase in the growth of wheat in 
England during a period of about a century and a half,, 
or from 1688 to 1828, is indicated by comparing the 
amount, fourteen millions of bushels, grown at the for- 
mer date with 12,500,000 quarters or 100,000,000 bushels, 
at the latter. The population of England at the revolu- 
tion (1688) was under five millions, so that each person 
consumed about three bushels annually. The population 
in 1828 was short of fifteen millions, so that each person 
consumed about seven bushels annually. The common- 
ness of barley for bread in the earlier part of the seven- 
teenth century is shown in Charles I. (in 1626) subjecting 
the brewers and malsters to a royal, license, declaring 
that the measure was for the relief of the poorer sort of 
his people, whose usual bread was barley; and for the 
restraining of innkeepers and victuallers, who made 
their ale and beer too strong and heady. The grain to 
be saved by the weakness of the beer was for the benefit 
of the consumers of barley bread. 

In France, the entire amount of all kinds of grain raised 
from the soil in one year, is estimated to be 62,221,205 
Winchester quarters, (175,271,000 hectolitres.) Of this 
quantity, it is supposed that 16 per cent is consumed in 
seed, 19 per cent, in the feeding of different species of 
animals, and 2 per cent, in distilleries and breweries. 
The amount of wheat grown in one year is 22,000,000 
quarters. The proportion of grain to each individual 
in the kingdom is about ten bushels, or two more than 
is consumed in England. The growth of wheat and 
other grain in France is nearly equal to the consump- 
tion. Hungary, with a population of thirteen millions 
of persons, grows 105,000,000 bushels of grain, which, 
after deducting seed, and without supposing any wasted 



yQoogk 



WHEAT IN THE UNITED STATES. 119 

in distillation, would leave about 6i bushels for every 
inhabitant. The deficiency in France, when it exists^ 
is made up by importations from the Black Sea. 

The two great corn (grain) markets of the north of 
Europe are Dantzic and Hamburgh. From the former 
city, which is the depot for the production of Poland, 
there was an average annual exportation, for twenty-* 
five years, (from 1801 to 1825,) of 200,330 quarters of 
wheat, and 67,511 quarters of rye. In 1830, no fewer 
than 404,000 quarters were exported, of which 311,000 
weVe to England. Rye is the bread-corn of the Poles. 

From Hamburgh, the excess of the exports over the 
imports is less than might have been expected, amount- 
ing at an average of the 10 years ending in 1825, to 
only 48,263 quarters, or 386,104 bushels. 

Much more grain than the above, mainly wheat, was 
supplied to Great Britain by impoverished Spain, (1831,) 
the exports from which were 158,000 quarters. 

Odessa, in the Black Sea, is the only port in the south 
of Russia from which any considerable quantity of grain 
is exported. The amount, in 1824, was 427,747 quar- 
ters, of which 100,000 quarters are required by Con- 
stantinople. Sicily, once, with Egypt, the granary of 
ancient Rome, has barely a surplus for exportation. 

The United States^ with a vast extent of fertile coun- 
try, and an agricultural population rapidly increas- 
ing, produce the cerealia both for home consumption 
and for exportation. The chief product exported is 
flour. During the year 1838, the quantity sent abroad 
was 448,161 barrels. Of wheat, the exportation amount- 
ed to only 6,291 bushels; whereas, forty-nine years pre- 
ceding, or in 1790, there were 1,124,458 bushels of 
wheat, and 724,623 barrels of flour exported. The an- 



yGoogk 



120 VEOKTABLE FOOD. 

nual average of wheat exported during the above period 
was 209,666 bushels, and of flour during the same time, 
877,000 barrels. 

It appears that for the eight years, ending with 1838, 
the exports of wheat from the whole United States, 
were not as great as they were from Pennsylvania alone 
-100 years ago; nor, with only two exceptions, did they 
exceed in the last 25 years, the exports from Pennsyl- 
vania 60 years ago, while the average prices of both 
articles have probably increased three or four fold. It 
has been found also, that the exports of flour for the last 
few years have been less than they were 50 years ago, 
and that for several years, with few exceptions, there 
has been a gradual diminution in the quantity of ex- 
ports of this article. On the other hand, viewing the 
inspections from the same districts of the United States, 
We find that they average nearly alike for the last ten 
years, rather diminishing, however, than increasing in 
quantity. (MCulloch's Diet, Amer. edit.) We infer 
from this statement that the home consumption is greatly 
increased, and that every year there is a nearer approach 
to a par between the quantity produced and that con- 
sumed. Already, indeed, we have had experience of 
an inequality on the other side, viz: in the importation 
of foreign flour, wheat, and potatoes, owing to the short- 
ness of the crop in 1838. 

An inference might be drawn of home consumption 
from the inspections of this article at difierent places in 
the United States, compared with the quantity exported. 
The amount inspected for 1838, was 2,546,079 barrels; 
that exported was, as already stated, 448,161, which 
would leave a balance for home consumption of 1,097,818 
barrels. But as large quantities of flour are consumed, 



yGoogk 



Bvm in die cities, which axe boI inspected^ and as nearly 
all dial is consumed in the intetioi escapes this supervi-^ 
sion, the inspections leported give a very imperfect idea 
of the entire home consumption. — {AfChillochf opw cit) 
• The produce of the United States in wheat, in 1840^ 
was eighty-fire millions of bushels. 

From Canada^ the exports of wheat and flour to 
Great Britain, in 1835, were, of the former, 88,695, and 
of the latter, 48,811 cwt 

Babubt {Hwdeum)* — ^Barley was largely used by 
the Gredcs, and in the earlier ages of the Roman rer 
public; and it was not until the Romans had learned to 
cultivate wheat, that they gave barley to their cattle. 
Pliny says, barley was the most ancient aliment of 
mankind. It was cultivated in Egypt nearly fifteen 
hundared years before Christ, (Exodus ix. 31.) The 
barley harvest is mentioned in the Book of Ruth; and 
its relative value, in 2d Kings, chap. viii. This grain 
ranks next to wheat, in Great Britain, of all the 
cerealia; and in Scandinavia and Siberia, as an arti- 
cle for food, takes precedence of it. In 1765, Mr. 
Charles Smith estimated the number of barley con- 
sumers in England and Wales to be 730>000; and, as a 
large proportion of the population of Wales, West- 
moreland, and Cumberland continue to subsist chiefly 
on barley-bread, Mr. McCulloch thinks that this esti- 
mate may not, at present, be very wide of the truth. 
Pliny relates, that the Roman gladiators were called 
Hordeariij from their use of this grain as food. The 
principal d^nand for barley at the present time, in 
Great Britain, is for conversion into malt, to be used in 
the nuLUufacture of ale, porter, and British spirits. It 
is also extensively used in fattening black cattle, hogs, 
and poultry. It now generally follows turnips; and is 
11 



yGoogk 



12Z VEOETABLS YOOD. 

a very important crop, in the rotation best adapted to 
light soilsu The most usual crop is from ^8 to 36 or 
38 bushels to the acre; it has been as high as 60 or 70 
bushels. The average weight of a Winchester bushel, 
is between fifty and fifty-one pounds; and the product 
in flour, is about twelve to fourteen pounds of grain. 

In reference to the readiness of cultivation of this 
grain, whilst we learn, on the one hand, that barley is 
a tender plant and easily hurt, especially by much 
moisture, in any stage of its growth is more hazardous 
than wheat, and, generally speaking, raised at a greater 
expense; on the other hand, we are told, that it may be 
propagated over a wider range of climate than wheat 
itself, bearing^ heat and drought better, growing upon 
lighter soils, and coming so quickly to maturity, that 
the short northern summers, which do not admit of the 
ripening of wheat, are yet of long enough duration for 
the perfection of barley. - It is the latest sown, and the 
earliest reaped, of all the summer grains. In warm 
countries, such as Spain, the farmers can gather two 
harvests of barley within the year: one in the spring, 
from winter-sown grain; and the other in autumn, from 
that sown in summer. In Lapland, the grain has been 
sown only a few days before midsummer, and the 
harvest was in the latter part of July; the whole pro- 
cess having occupied not longer than six weeks. 

Barley is grown in the United States, to the north of 
Virginia, and also in Canada. The crop is generally 
from twenty-five to thirty bushels to an acre; and the 
average weight per bushel is forty-eight to fifty pounds^ 
— the sale rate being forty-eight pounds. Barley, in this 
country, is generally grown for malting, but is not 
often made into flour; barley-bread being hardly eaten, 
except by a few European emigrants or their families. 



yGoogk 



Small quantities are decorticated or hulled, and there- 
by converted into Scotch or pearl barley, which is used 
for food in soup, or as light nutriment m disease. 

Barley is liable to disease, and consequent deteriora- 
tion in the nutritive qualities of its grain, and even to 
produce positively noxious effects from eating the flour. 

fiarley, it has been already stated, is largely used for 
malt, which is the grain partly fermented and afterwards 
kiln-dried, prior to its conversion, by the addition of 
water and hops, into a beverage, called beer, ale and 
porter. This use of barley dates from the remotest 
times: it was known to, and practised by the Egyp- 
tians. Among the Greeks, beer was distinguished as 
barley-tvinej a name which sufficiently identifies the 
intoxicating property of the liquid, and the materials 
whence this was drawn. Malt liquor, as we learn 
from the inquiries of Turner, {History of the Anglo- 
Saxons^ has formed an article of manufacture and 
consumption in England, for a period coeval at least 
with the time of Tacitus. The general drinks of the 
Anglo-Saxons were ale and mead: wine was a luxury 
for the great. After the Norman conquest, wine be- 
came more commonly used; and the vine was exten- 
sively cultivated in England. But the people held to 
the beverage of their forefathers, as was indicated by 
the burden of the wassail song of the fifteenth cen- 
tury— 

** Bring 08 home good ale." 

^ The old ale knights of England," as Cambden calls 
the sturdy yeomen of England, knew not, however, 
the ale to which hops, in the next century, gave 
flavour and preservation. As late as Henry VIIL, 
breweri were forbidden to put bops and sulphur into 



yGoogk 



124 TBCttTABXJB 7009. 

ale; but ia the fifth year of Edward VI. (1552) the 
royal and national taste appears to have dmnged; for 
privileges were then granted to hop^ounds. In 1838, 
there were SSfiOO acres in Great Britain occupied in 
the cultivation of hops. The quantity of malt on 
which duty was paid in the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland, was 40^5^66 bushels. In the 
year 1836, it was 44,387,719. Tabular returns show, 
that the consumption of malt had been, if not stationary 
at least fluctuating, and without material increase during 
the century ending with 1810; in this year, the quan- 
tity of malt on which duty was charged, amounted 
to 26,889,183; and the annual average for ten years, 
ending 1723, the quantity was 27,336,000 bushels. 

The quantity of beer, of all kinds, mamifactured and 
sold in Great Britain and Ireland, taking the returns in 
1830, the last that have been made out, owing to the 
duty being removed in that year, is upwards of nine 
millions and a half of barrelsy of which the proper* 
iion made in Ireland would be about a million of bar- 
rels. The amount of home-made ale and beer is not 
known. It is computed, that about three and a quarter 
barrels of beer are manufactured from a quarter or eight 
bushels of malt. Another estimate is, that 400 quarters 
of malt make 1 500 barrels of beer. The barley converted 
into malt would furnish farinaceous food, at the standard 
already mentioned often bushels of barley to each indi- 
vidual, for four millions fifty thousand persons annually. 
The number of acres taken up with hops, viz. 55,000, 
would provide grain and farinaceous food for a hundred 
and sixty-five thousand persons,— estimating the pro- 
ducts of the land as averaging 30 bushels of barley to 
the acre. The manufacture of beer and spirits then, in 
the United Kingdom, causes a direct annual abstraction 



yGoogk 



RTB. US 

of the best and most substantial vegetable nutriment, or 
that of the cerealia, equal to what would supply four mil- 
lions two hundred and twenty thousand persons. The 
adulteration of malt liquors, by various bitter and nar- 
cotic substances, is a farther question of dietetics, which 
wiU engage attention under the head of drinks, in a 
subsequent part of this volume. 

In the United States, breweries are established and in 
full operation in the chief northern cities, as also in the 
towns on the banks of the Hudson and the Ohio. 
Large quantities of malt liquors are exported from the 
Northern to the Southern States. We must hope that 
the quality of the American is superior to that of the 
British ale and beer. I am not apprised either of the 
quantity of grain malted, or of fermented liquor made 
from it in the United States. 

Ryb (Secale). — The native country of rye is said to 
be Candia (Crete); but of its history in this respect we 
know as little as of the other ceteal grains. Rye has 
been cultivated from time immemorial; and it is con* 
sidered to come nearer to wheat than any other grain,. 
It is the bread-corn of Germany, Northern Russia, 
Sweden, and the southern part of Norway, and is 
still eaten in parts of England. With the exception of 
wheat, rye contains a greater proportion of gluten than 
any other of the cereal grains, to which it owes its capa- 
bility of being converted into a spongy bread. It con- 
tains also, like barley, nearly five parts in a hundred of 
ready-formed saccharine matter, by which it is in con- 
sequence easily converted into malt. 

Rye is the common bread-corn in all the sandy dis- 
tricts to the south of the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Fin- 
land, furnishing abundance of food for the numerous 
inhabitants of places, which, without it, must have 

II* 



yGoogk 



Iil5 VEOSTABKE FOO0. 

been fihl# beUer than sandy and lAHnhabitable deisiMrts. 
In these districts, it not only fonns the chief article of 
consumption, but furnishes ah export of some con- 
sequence to the trade of the Baltic ports. From Dant^ 
sric, there were exported, on an average, during each ci 
the two years, 18)20 and 1830, six hundred and fifty 
thousand bushels of rye, nearly three-eighths of which 
were to Holland for distillation into gin; and from 
Riga, in 1832, , more than four hundred thousand 
bushels. The abundance of rye in Northern Russia, 
is manifested by the exportation from Archangel of 
more than a million of bushels of this grain in one year 
(1832); that of wheat for the same time, being under 
two hundred thousand bushels. From St. Petersburgh, 
nearly three hundred thousand bushels of rye were 
exported in 1832; and not much below a million of 
bushels in the preceding year. In the United States, a 
good deal of rye is converted into whisky by distilla- 
tion. Un malted rye-meal is mixed in Holland with 
barley malt, in the proportion of two parts, by weight, 
of the former with one of the latter; and the whole 
being fermented together, forms the wash, from which is 
distilled, flavoured with juniper, all the grain spirit pro* 
duoed in that country, and known throughout Europe 
as Holland Greneva. 

The peasantry of Sweden subsist very generally upon 
rye-cakes, which they bake only twice in the course 
of the year, and which during most part of the time 
are consequently hard as a t>oard. Even in more 
than half of France, rye-bread, either pure or mixed 
with wheat in equal proportions, is the only kind to 
be procured. The mixed grain, of wheat and rye 
(meteU), is sown and reaped, and bread made of 
the two, ground into flour: that grown in Cham* 



yGoogk 



paigne is preferfod in Paris, Starch enten largely into 
Om oomposition of rye-floor. M. Einhoff fooQd that 
3^40 parts of the latter yielded 2^54 of starch. 
Sir Humphrey Davy's analysis gives 5 per ceht. of 
gioten, that proximate principle which prevails in 
wheat, and on which the superior nutritive properties 
of this grain depends. The former of these phemists 
estimates, that there is 70 per cent, of nutritive matter 
in rye. Davy's calculation is, 79 for rye; for wheat, 95^ 
of which last, he supposes, there are 19 parts gluten. 

The quantity of rye produced in the United States in 
1840, was neariy seventeen millions of bushels. Rye 
IB subject to a disease, called spur or hom^ by which 
the grain^ then called ergot, is rendered positively 
poisonous. In some years, an extensive and alarming 
disease and mortality have ensued from the use of 
rye-meal, in which the diseased grain was ground-up 
with the healthy. 

Oat (^Sativa). — If rice be the most southern or tro- 
pical of the cerealia, oat is decidedly the most northern, 
and its growth is as incompatible with a warm as that 
of rice is with a cold climate. Oat is the hardiest of all 
the cereal grasses, growing luxuriantly in cold northern 
climates, and in coarse mountainous districts, where 
neither wheat nor barley can be advantageously grown. 
It is, however, cultivated in Bengal, as low as the 28th 
degree of latitude. In Scotland and Ireland, where it 
has long formed a principal part of the food of the peo- 
ple, it is more cultivated by far than any other species 
of grain, in the proportion of ten bushels to one. The 
produce of the oat is exceedingly variable, being in poor 
toils not more than 20, but in rich ones as much as 
64, 72, and even 80 bushels an acre. 

The common and almost general mode of using oat- 



yGoogk 



128 VSOKTABIiX FOOD. 

meal, as nutriment, by the people of Scotland and Ire- 
land, is to boil it with water into a thick consistence, 
forming porridge or stirabout^ and, also, to convert it 
by moistening it with water into a dough which is made 
into thin cakes, and baked in an oven or before an open 
fire. These two preparations of oatmeal, with the alter- 
nations of potatoes, make up almost the entire food of 
the peasantry of Ireland, and as we learn also of the 
Highlands of Scotland. The habitual beverage with 
these people is water. Whisky is consumed at harvest 
times, convivial meetings, and at markets and fairs; that 
is to say, their drink for labour is water; for frolic, dissi- 
pation and riot, it is, or happily we<;an now say, since 
the labours and success of Father Mathew, used to be, 
whisky. 

It was computed in 1765, by Mr. Charles Smith, that 
there were 623,000 persons consumers of oats in Eng- 
land and Wales. The number has probably declined 
since then; for, although the growth of oats has in- 
creased, this is to meet the demand for its use as food 
for horses. The export of oats from Ireland, chiefly if 
not entirely for the English market, was, in 1825, 
1,503,204 quarters, or 12,025,632 bushels; and in the 
state of meal, 204,617 quarters, or 1,636,936 bushels, 
during the same year. In France, about 90 millions of 
bushels is produced, of which 25 millions of bushels are 
used by the inhabitants for food, chiefly in the southern 
part of the kingdom. Oats yield, on an average, 8 lbs* 
of meal for 14 lbs. of the grain. 

Although oats be chiefly a northern grain, it is grown 
largely in southern Russia, and shipped in considerable 
quantities from Odessa. It has even been cultivated in 
the high lands of Bengal. 

Oats have been used to make ihalt for the purpoise of 



yGoogk 



BUCKWBBAT. 129 

brewing. In former and comparatiyely mitazed days, 
says Mr. Mowbray, writiog in 1830, malt was currently 
made from wheat and oats likewise. Wheat malt pro- 
duces a strong-bodied, fine and high-flavoured liquoi^ 
oats a light, mild, and pleasant beverage. I have heard, 
continues Mr. M., much commendations of oat-ale, as a 
summer drink, but have never tasted it Few opportu* 
nities are given, we believe, in the present day, for 
ascertaining the meriis of oat-ale. In former times a 
drink called mum was manufactured for sale, in the 
preparation of which oatmeal was employed. English 
Geneva or gin is made of spirit obtained from oats and 
barley or malt, rectified or distilled with the addition of 
juniper berries, oil of turpentine, &c. It has been com* 
puted (Ure's Dictionary of Arts and Sciences) that 100 
lbs. of oatmeal will yield by distillation 36 lbs. of spirits. 

In the United States there were about 100 millions of 
bushels of oats grown in 1840, of which New York pro- 
duced upwards of twenty millions, and Pennsylvania 
also upwards of twenty millions. 

Buckwheat {Polygonum Fugopyrum). — The na- 
tive country of buckwheat is supposed to be Asia: it 
was cultivated in England in the latter part of the six- 
teenth century. It is not as extensively used as any of 
the other cerealia for the nutriment of man. Indirectly 
it contributes to this end by its furnishing a food of 
which all animals are fond, and on which they will 
thrive. When given to cows it causes them to yield an 
abundance of excellent milk, which makes good butter 
and cheese. Occasionally, however, the flour of buck- 
wheat is used for bread, but more frequently for. thin 
cakes raised with yeast. In Germany, it is used as an 
ingredient in potage and puddings; and in some coun- 
tries, the poor mix the meal of buckwheat with a small 



yGoogk 



130 ysaETABLX food. 

proportion of wheat flour, and make a kind of bread of 
the compound. In Brabant, and in some parts of the 
United Stateis, it is not unusual for persons who derive 
a profit from keeping bees, to sow this grain near their 
dwellings, under the belief that these insects are partial 
to the flowers and derive more materials for their honey 
than from any other plant. 

Buckwheat is capable of befaig converted into malt, 
and of subsequent manufacture into beer and ardent 
spirits. In Dantzic it is made considerable use of in this 
way. 

In some of the United States, the quantity of buck- 
wheat produced is considerable. In Pennsylvania, it 
amounted, in 1840, to 2,113,742 bushels; in New York, 
to 2,287,885; in Virginia, to 683,130; and in Ohio, to 
681,215. The produce of the difiierent States collectively 
was somewhat short of eight millions and a half of 
bushels. In France, there is raised annually about 25 
millions of bushels of buckwheat; the people in parts of 
the kingdom use it to a considerable extent for aliment 

Wild Rice (^Zizamia Aquatica^ FaPims Avena)^— Called by the 
Indians menomene, is found in the greatest abundance on the 
marshy margins of the northern lakes and waters of the upper 
branches of the Mississippi: it grows also as far south as Natchi- 
toches, below 32° lat. The grain has a long slender hull, much re- 
sembling that of oats, except that' it is longer and darker. On it the 
migratory water fowls fatten, before they wing their autumnal flight 
to the south. It furnishes the northern savages and the Canadian 
traders and hunters with their annual supplies of grain. Bat for 
this annual resource they could hardly exist. The wild rice is a 
tall, tubular, reedy, aquatic plant, not unlike the bastard ctoe of the 
southern countries. It springs up from waters of six or seven feet 
in depth, where the bottom is soft and muddy; and it rises nearly to 
the same distance above the water. The grain, when detached 
from its chaflf, is as white as the common rice. Mr. Timothy Flint 
{History and Geography of the Mississippi Valley\ from whom I de- 
rive the foregoing particulars, concludes his account by sa)riDg,— 
'* Puddings made of it, tasted, to us, like those made of sago." 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER VI. 

VEGETABLE FOOD (continued). 

Different methods for preparing the Cerealia for Food—^te^^ from 
wheat, the best and most nutritive— Good bread defined— Effects 
of the addition of yeast— Fermentation owing to the sugar— For- 
mation of carbonic and acetic acids and alcohol,— this last in small 
quantity and soon evaporated — Articles added to remove acidity 
of bread — Other articles— Alum,— means of detecting it— Blue vi- 
triol; its effects on the dough, — means of detecting it— Salt, its 
use — Potatoes and potato-starch mixed with wheat flour— Details 
of trials and experiments on this subject in France— Household 
bread— Bran bread— Warm and fresh bread injurious— Pap- 
Rice added to wheat flour— Proportion of flour to bread-— Ginger- 
bread — Rye-bread— Mixture of rye and wheat to make brea4 — 
Rye-mush— Barley,— barley-flour, and barley-water- Oat-meal, its 
various uses,— gruel from— Rice, its advantages as an article of 
food, — ^use of in disease,— preparations of— Maize,— bread from, — 
gruel— Buckwheat, — mixture of with barley and rye, 

After having spoken of the geographical range and 
the relative quantity grown of the different cerealia, as 
well as of their alimentary application, it may not be 
amiss to say something of the different modes of pre- 
paring them for bread, as regular nutriment, or as drinks, 
jellies, &c. for the diet of the sick and the invalid. 

The kind of bread most highly prized, both for ita 
agreeable taste and nutritive properties, is that made 
from wheat-flour. This last possesses in itself all the 
requisite elements for panification, viz: starch, the chief 



yGoogk 



132 YBGETABLB FOOD. 

nutritive element in all the cerealia, sugar for fermenta- 
tion, and gluten to retain the air evolved, and to give 
the requisite lightness and porosity to the entire mass. 
<^Good bread ought to be composed of flour, well 
kneaded with the lightest water, seasoned with a little 
salt, fermented with fine yeast, and sufficiently baked 
at a proper heat When baked, it ought to appear 
through a glass like a honeycomb, full of cells, yet the 
intermediate parts constituting a uniform substance of a 
gelatinous nature which readily unites with an aqueous 
menstruum." A paste of flour and water, mixed to- 
gether and exposed to heat, will undergo a kind of fer- 
mentation analogous to that caused by yeast; and a 
portion of it thus changed will act as a leaven to fresh 
dough instead of yeast. There is greater risk, how- 
ever, of the bread being sour when fermented with 
leaven than with yeast, and the process of panification 
is slower. The part which the gluten of the flour per- 
forms in the making of bread is well illustrated by the 
following remarks of Dr. Ure (Chem. Diet.): «Thds 
flour paste may indeed be regarded as merely a viscid 
and elastic tissue of gluten, the interstices of which are 
filled with starch, albumen and sugar. We know that 
it is from the gluten that the dough derives its property 
of rising on the admixture of leaven. The leav^i act- 
ing on the sweet principle of the wheat, gives rise in 
succession to the vinous and acetous fermentatioi^, and 
of consequence to alcohol, acetic and carbonic acids. 
The latter gas tends to fly off*, but the gluten resBSts its 
disengagement, expands like a membrane, form&a mul- 
titude of little cavities, which give lightness and 
sponginess to the bread. For the want of gluten, the 
flour of all those grains and roots which consist obk&y 
of starch, are not capable of making raised bread, even. 



yGoogk 



PRSYSNTITES OF SOUR BREAD. 133 

with the addition of leaven or yeast." Dr. Ure, and 
he is not singular in his opinion, says, that ^ there does 
not appear to be any peculiar fermentation to which 
the name panary should be given." The evolution 
of alcohol during the process of fermentation of dough 
and until it is adequately baked into bread, suggested 
to some persons, a few years back, in England, the 
idea of framing an apparatus, by which the alcohol 
could be retained, and a kind of distillation in fact car- 
ried on simultaneously with panification. But the re- 
sults did not harmonize with the preconceived notions 
on this subject; — the quantity of alcohol was too small^ 
as it was not the product of the conversion of the starch 
into sugar, and this again into vinous fermentation and 
alcohol, but merely of a portion of the small quantity 
of sugar originally in the flour. None of the alcohol 
remains fixed in the bread. 

More injury to the quality of the bread is to be ap- 
prehended by the retention of the acid, which not being 
volatile cannot escape, like the alcohol, by evaporation; 
and this evil is especially liable to occur, if the flour be 
not fresh, nor originally of a good quality. Correctives 
are found in the addition of small quantities of sub- 
carbonate of ammonia, (volatile alkali,) or of the com- 
mon carbonate of magnesia, by which not only the 
acidity is prevented, but the bread is improved in 
quality. Dr. Davy has made a number of experi- 
ments, by mixing carbonate of magnesia with flour; 
and he has fully satisfied himself, that loaves thus 
made ^ rise well in the oven, and, after being baked, 
the bread is light and spongy, has a good taste, and 
keeps well. In cases where the new flour is of an in- 
diflierent quality, from twenty to thirty grains of car- 
bonate of magnesia to a pound of the flour will con- 
12 



yGoogk 



1 34 vaorr ABJLK vow. 

siderabty Hnprore the bread* When the flour 19 of the 
worst qmUtjr, forty grains to a pound of flour aeeoat 
iiecv9«9ary to piroduee the same effetf 

Alum is another article frequentky, we m^y say eofa- 
monly, used by the English baker«»**-in the proportion: 
of two ounces of alum to five busbeis (or a sack) of 
flour. 

Mr. Accnm (on Gulinaipy Poisons, p. l3iS) tells us^ 
« From experiments in which I have been employed^ 
with the assistance of skilful bakera^ I 9m aiitborize4 to 
state, that without the addition >of alum, it does not ap- 
pear possible to make white,, light and porous brisa^, 
such as is used in this metropolis (London,) unless the 
flour be of the very best quality/' This practice is nel, 
we may hope, common in this country: as such a bread, 
though it may not aflcct sensibly those who are ia 
health, must exert an injurious influence on those whose 
digtjsrion i? torpid and impaired by costiveoess.* 

. * The presence of alum may he detected aa follows;— - 

Accurately mix the crumbs of stale bread in water, squeeze the 
pasty mass through a piece of cloth, and then pass the liquor 
through a filter papen the limpid infusion resulting wiH, if it con- 
tain alum, exhibit a white cloud, more or lees dense, on adding) to 
it n dilate sohitioD of tbe mnriate of barytes* This is the fceceea 
recommended by Dr. Ure. A more accurate one is pouited out by 
M. Kuhlmann, (Annales d* Hygiene et dt Med. Leg, U t. p. 346.) 
He directs, a certain quantity of bread, about six ounces, to be re- 
duced to ashes, and these minutely pulverised in a porphyry mortar; 
they are then to be treated with nitric acid, evaporated to dryness, 
and the residae mixed with two or thi«e drachms of water. To this 
liquid is to be added a small excess of potassa; it is ntxt to be 
heated and filtered, and the addition of sal ammonia (hydrocblorala 
of ammonia) to the liquid in a boiling state will precipitate the alom. 
An opinion may be formed, approximatively, by the weight and 
Tolume of the ashes, which are both vreightier and bulkier from 
alom bread than pure bread, of the same weight* 



yGoogk 



BLUfi VITRIOL nr BREAD. 135 

White rkriol and blue vitriol hare, also, been used 
^y bakers in Europe. The latter salt (sulphate of cop- 
per) has more especially engaged the attention of the 
French chemists within the last twelve years. Its use 
would seem to be more common in Belgium, and in 
the adjoining provinces of France, than in other parts 
of this latter kingdom. It manifests effects, when mixed 
with dough, very analogous to those of yeast, by giving 
the requisite Consistence to the dough to retain the 
bubbles of gas, and thus to render the bread more 
poroMk If the salt of copper be added in excess, it 
produces an effect similar to that of yeast, in giving rise 
to the same kind of smell which is caused by this latter 
in excess. More sensible effects, on the fermentation 
and r»ing of the bread by means of the blue vitriol or 
eait of copper, fellow the addition of a very minute 
quantity, as one of the salt to 300,000 of bread, or one 
grain to 9S^n pounds and a half of bread. Double 
this quantity causes the greatest rising. Beyond this 
a contrary effect is observed: the bread is iat and 
lEioist. Several of the Belgic bakers and some of 
the French, have been punished for this fashion of 
adulterating bread* The copper is the agent in the 
above process, for other sulphates and sulphuric acid 
have no action on dough.* It may be inferred, there- 
fore, that white vitriol (sulphate of zinc) has not been 
used to the extent or for the purpose alleged, in connec- 
tion with making bread. 

* The f^revenoe of copper in brend is aseert^Bed by M. Kiihl^ 
niaftD, in ths fd11owin|r manner. SdniA of the sanpeoCed bread ia 
%6 be rddwsed to asbea and treated in the same waj as for the de- 
tection of alum, until that step ie reached, in the process already 
described, in which the filtered liquid is obtained. To this, am- 
monia in excess is to be added, and then some drops of a solution 



yGoogk 



136 yS0STABLE FOOD. 

The subcarbonate of magnesia, according to M. 
Euhlmaun, produces no effect on the rising of bread. 
The subcarbonate of ammonia has little influence over 
the rising, as it is converted into an acetate by com- 
bining with the free acid in the dough. 

Common (marine) salt exhibits the same properties 
as the alum and salt of copper, but in less degree: it 
never gives such white crumb, but the bread into which 
it enters is far better than that which comes from a loaf 
in which either the sulphate of alumen or that of copper 
(alum or blue vitriol) are present: the latter resembles 
more a piece of light cake than bread, and it has but 
a slight flavour. 

Adulteration of bread by the addition of the car- 
bonates of potassa and soda, sometimes practised in 
order to prevent the bread from becoming soon dry, is 
easily ascertained by the greater degree of alkalescence 
of the ashes} those from pure bread are very slightly 
alkaline. 

Other less hurtful but still obnoxious adulterations of 
bread, or of the flour from which it is made, have been 
practised in Europe; such by adding plaster of Paris, 
chalk, whiting and burnt bones. A common mixture, 
in the old world, which only deserves the name of adul- 

of the carbonate of ammonia. The white precipitate thus pro- 
cured, is to be separated by the filter; and the liquid reduced to a 
fourth of its quantity (yolume) by eyaporation, which carries off, at 
the same time, the excess of ammonia. Into this liquid a few 
drops of nitric acid are introduced, and then two separate portions 
are to be treated; the one by the ferrocyanate of potassa (pmssiate 
of potash), and hydrosulphate of potassa, (liver of sulphur.) If 
the bread contained even one seventy thousandth part of copper, the 
liquid on the addition of the first of the tests will immediately 
assume a rose colour; and of the second a greenish tint, and at last 
a brown precipitate. 



yGoogk 



POTATOBt WITH WMXAT FLOUE. 137 

lemtion when it is concealed, and not sold at a inrioe cor- 
responding with the cheapness of the artide added, is 
of potatoes or potato starch with flour. In France, and 
some other parts of the continent, and in Great Britain 
too, it is a question of yery great moment, to ascertain 
the cheapest bread, compatible with salubrity and good 
flavour, that can be made for the poorer classes. 

In some pa^-ts of France they mix potatoes, previously 
boiled peeled and nuished, with wheat flour, in order 
to majce bread; and so long as the proportion of the 
fonnec to the whole quantity, does not go beyond la. 
fourth, the^ result is satisfactory. Equal parts of po- 
tatoes and flour will not answer: the mixture results in 
close, hard and unpalatable bread of diflicult digestion. 
But even attempts of tliis nature, imperfect as they are, 
have done much good in years of scarcity, as in those 
which came after 1S15, in France. In tfie year 1816, 
tlie idea occurred to several bakers to add fresh potato 
etardi to their flour; and, accordingly, by suitable me- 
chanical contrivances, they procured a complete mixture 
of the two, and made a bread with it of which the con- 
sumers did not complain, and which the government 
tacitly authorized. M. Labiche, one of those then in 
oflSce, assured the editors of the Annaks d^HygtenSj 
&Cy that by this means the danger of famine, with which 
the capital was threatened, was warded ofll During 
the years which preceded 1832, notwithstanding im- 
portations to a large amount, the market price of flour 
was quite high, and the bakers again had recourse to 
the potato, the dried starch of which they mixed in the 
proportion of five to ten per cent with flour, without 
dissatisfying theur customers* But the millers having 
learned what had been done, thought that they might 
increase their profits, and mixed potato starch, to as 

12* 



yGoogk 



138 VSOSTABLX FOOD* 

great an extent as possible, with their flour. The 
bakers this time, were the complainants. It was fomid 
difficult to incorporate with flour more than twenty per 
cent, of fecula or starch; this latter, being heavier than 
flour and being acted on by cold water, was sometimes 
deposited, and formed numerous doughy lumps. 

M. Ganal so far improved the process of simple mix- 
ture, as to be able to incorporate with the flour, fifty 
per cent of potato fecula, and afterwards procured a 
toead sufficiently raised by the addition of sug^ and 
barm. After all, notwithstanding every care in making 
the mixture, it is never so perfect as to prevent lumps 
of fecula; and the sugar and barm impart a flavour 
. which is not much liked. A still farther advance was 
made by the lique&ction of starch with malted barley, 
so that a third of dextrine could be incorporated with 
the dough and good panification result. During the 
process, the malted barley does not merely separate the 
dextrine from its teguments, but converts it into sugar 
of grapes, and it is very difficult to give any uniformity 
to the entire manufacture of bread in this way. 

M. Lebaillif exhibited to the French Academy of 
Sciences, a bread of fine appearance, composed entirely 
of starch; it united the external requisites, whiteness and 
hghtness; but the complete absence of all animal matter 
has its inconveniences; and the taste differs so much 
from that of common bread, that it is doubtful whether 
people could accustom themselves to it. The animal 
matter here referred to is gluten, which contains among 
its ultimate elements azote, the chemical characteristic 
of animal organization. Unless azote enters some way 
or another into the composition of the food of man, he 
is imperfectly nourished. 

The two gentlemen, (Dr. Boucbardot and the Due de 



yGoogk 



POTATO STAECH IH BAB AD. 139 

Luynes,) whose history of the experiments on potato 
fecula, as regards its incorporation with flour, I am re- 
peatingy were induced to review the substances whose 
properties, by spontaneous alteration, were analogous to 
those of gluten; and they fixed their attention on caseum. 
Among the immediate principles of gluten, it has been 
already said that vegetable albumen is one; and we may 
now add, that its resemblance to caseum is, in many 
respects, considerable. Having rendered caseum solu- 
ble, by the addition of bicarbonate of soda, they added to 
it fecula, in the proportion of twenty parts of the former 
to one hundred of the latter, — then had the mixture ex- 
posed two days to the sun, and sent to the mill to be 
ground. Out of this flour a very passable bread was 
made, with the addition of yeast; and if pains be taken, 
by prolonged kneading and beating, and the addition of 
water moderately warm, and but a little yeast, and by 
watching the dough and putting it in the oven before it 
is completely raised, quite a good bread will be the 
result of the process. (J3nn. dPHygienej &c. t. XI.) 

By grinding the starch and wheat, previously mixed, 
together, the union between them is so intimate, that a 
much larger proportion of starch than before can be 
introduced in the preparation of bread,— even to an 
equality with the flour, and as far as two parts of the 
former to one of the latter. Equal success attended the 
trials by mixing potato starch and meslin {meteil) wheat 
and rye, to make good bread. 

The experimenters above-named point out the means 
of removing the peculiar taste which starch communi- 
cates to bread; viz. by heating it on iron plates. Equal 
parts of wheat and potato starch, mixed together, and 
then ground at the mill, yield a flour which, by the com- 
mon processes, makes very good bread. 



yGoogk 



140 VB«STABUi FOOD. 

Notwkbsttndiiig the abnndaot crops of wheal in 
the United States, adequate ia general to all the ftli- 
mentary wants of the people, it may happen, as it 
has but a few years ago happened, that the supply is 
short of the demand; and hence it ought be a question 
of some moment to procure bread at a cost which will 
not be too onerous to> the industrious working yet poor 
man. The above statements will on this account be 
thought not devoid of interest to the intelligent and 
philanthropical reader* 

A good household bread is directed to be made as 
follows:-— Put a quartern of flour into a lai^e tub, with 
two or three spoonsful of salt; make a hole in the middle; 
then put in a basin four table-spoonsful of good yeast; 
stir in a pint of milk, lukewarm; put it in the hole of the 
flour; stir it just to make it of thin batter; then strew a 
little flour over the top; set it on one side of the fire and 
cover it over; let it stand till the next moriung— then 
make it into dough; add half a pint more of warm milk; 
knead for ten minutes, and then set in a warm place by 
the fire for an hour and a half; then knead it again, it is 
ready either for loaves or batches; bake them from one 
hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. 

A variety of processes is used by cooks, confec- 
tioners, and others, to make cakes, puddings, and other 
kinds of bread, in which dififerent qualities are required. 
Some cakes are rendered brittle, or, as it is called, ahorij 
by an admixture of sugar or of starch. Another kind of 
brittleness is given by the addition of butter or of fat. 
White of egg, gum- water, isinglass, and other adhesive 
substances, are used, where it is intended that the effect 
of fermentation shall expand the dough into an exceed- 
ingly porous mass. 

There are varieties of wheat bread according to the 



yGoogk 



WABM BASAD UNWH0LE80MX. 141 

qualities of the flour,— as when it is made of the finest 
bolted flour, or of the coarsely bolted, or when all the 
bran is retained. This last kind, or bran bread, is re- 
commended to, and often used by dyspeptics, particu- 
larly to obviate costiveness, and at times with good efiect 
in torpid habits. On the contrary, in persons whose 
digestive canal has much sensibility, this coarse bread, 
as it can never be made by mastication and the action 
of the stomach completely homogeneous, is apt to irritate 
and give imperfect nourishment. Bread, on the other 
hand, made of very fine flour, is apt to form a cohesive 
mass, after imperfect mastication, and is less readily 
acted on by the stomach than where the particles are 
coarser. 

Much of the goodness of bread depends on the dough 
being well kneaded; and the chief cause of the ill flavour 
and heaviness of much home-made bread is from the 
neglect of the cook or over-hurried housewife, in this 
req>ect. Machinery has been introduced in France and 
England, to take the place of hand work, for the mixing 
of flour with water and yeast, and the thorough kneading 
of the dough afterwards. In summer, when the leaven 
or the yeast, and even dough, is apt to become sour, a 
previous addition to the flour of either the bicarbonate 
of soda or the carbonate of magnesia in the manner 
already described, will prevent sour bread. 

Bread yet warm, or even recently from the oven, is 
unwholesome, especially to all those in civic life whose 
exercise in the open air is limited; it is most preju- 
dicial to the dyspeptic, and to those who, without ac- 
knowledging themselves to be on this list, sufler fre- 
quently from sick headache, or occasionally from pain 
or spasm in the stomach. The morbid efiects of hot 
bread are greatly increased by butter melted on it Of 



yGoogk 



I4t VBorrABLC wood. 

the same injuriom nature is hot buttered toast; that it, 
toasted bread on which , while it is y^t hot, the butter 
is spread, and into which it penetrates. The time at 
which warm bread is taken, makes, as in the case of 
every substance of difficult digestion, a considerable 
difference, and hence a meal of this kind in the morning 
will often only cause a feeling of uneasiness and scmie 
oppression at the stomach; but in the evening will, in 
those any way predisposed, be apt to bring on violent 
spasms, or be followed by disturbed sleep, and distress- 
ing dreams, with hesidache and disordered bowels on 
the following morning. There are instances of sudden 
death caused by a full meal of warm bread. A3 a ge^ 
neral rule, bread should not be eaten until the day after 
that in which it comes out of the oven. 

Wheat flour boiled with milk, (pap or milk porridge,) 
and sweetened, is nourishing aliment for invalids who 
are not troubled with fever, and is largely given to in- 
fants. When there is fever or costiveness, or a dysenteric 
state of the bowels, this pap should be omitted, and the 
child fed with either simple rice or arrow-root b<Hled 
into a jelly and sweetened; or if there is no fever to 
iforbid, cream may be added advantageously. 

Rice is a good addition to the flour of wheal in pre- 
paring bread. A quarter of a pound of ground rice 
boiled and mixed with three quarters of a pound of 
flour, and made into dough in the water in which it was 
boiled, gives one pound fourteen ounces of bread; but 
the sume quatuity of bread made in the common way 
would require one pound and a quarter of flour. Beans 
added to wheat flour make a nutritious bread at less cost 
than if it were made from the latter alone* Five pounds 
of bean floor made with a decoction of beans, and this 
last then kneaded with fifty pounds of flour, and worked 



yGoogk 



OIKOBBBBEAD. 143 

as usual with salt and yeasty gives ninety-three pounds 
of dough, which on being bi^ed produced eighty-two 
pounds and three quarters of bread. Fifty-five pounds 
of floui made with dough in the common way^ produced 
siscty-nine pounds and a half of bread; hence, by the 
former process, there was gained one-fifth or fourteen 
pounds. 

The English estimate of the proportion, in weight, of 
bread to flour, is, that the sack of 280 lb& of flour will 
make on an average 86 quartern loaves, or 347i Iba. of 
bread; but as flour varies in its power of absorbing 
water, so a sack of ordinary flour will sometimes make 
86 loaves by absorbing 34 lbs. 2 oz. of water more than 
in the former case.* The mistresses of families in Iion- 
don exert themselves to confine the consumption of 
bread to six pounds a week for each person in the 
family, or about 13} oz. daily. If rolls or other bread 
is bought, or much flour consumed in puddings, the 
quantity of bread is lessened. 

Gingerbread is made in such a way that the fermen- 
tation is checked by the molasses or treacle used in 
its preparation. As Dr. Colquhoun, in his work on 
Bread, has not thought it beneath him to give more 
than one receipt for making gingerbread, exception will 
scarcely be taken to my giving bis last, viz:— Flour^ 1 
lb.; molasses or treacle, i lb.; raw sugar, i lb.; butter, 2 
oz.; carbonate of magnesia, i oz.; tartaric acid, i oz.; 

* The balk of wheat Is alcooat doubled by its being frround. The 
following are the proportions and varieties of product after grinding. 
If we suppose 8 bushels or 32 pecks of wheat to be subjected to the 
process, thefe will come out 6 bushels 3 pecks of fine flour, 8 pecks 
of seconds, 1 peck ef fine middlings, i peck of coarse middlings, 
8 babels of ^0 penny flonr, 2 bushels of pollard, and 3 bodMls ef 
bran, being in aU 14 bushels 3^ pecki. 



yGoogk 



144 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

ginger, J 02.; cinnamon, J oz.; nutmeg, 1 oz. The sub- 
stitution of magnesia for potash, recommended in some 
receipts, has the advantage of being more salubrious, 
and also, by the increased proportion in which it is used, 
of rendering bread ready for the oven in shorter time. 
By disengaging the carbonic acid from the magnesia by 
tartaric acid, gingerbread may be got ready for the oven 
in less than an hour. 

Of the other cerealia, the rye is that, the flour of which 
is most commonly mixed with the wheaten. In France, 
it is quite common to sow and reap the two together, 
and to send the product to the mill and have them 
ground together. This mixture (meteil) makes, with 
leaven, a good, nutritious, and not unpalatable bread. 
In case the rye and the wheat should have been pro- 
cured separately, the proportion for mixture is recom- 
mended to be from one-third to one-half rye. 

Rye comes next to wheat in its facility of panifica- 
tion, but is still inferior to the latter in this desirable 
property. Rye-bread has one great advantage, in its? 
retaining its humidity at the same time that it preserves 
its flavour. When made of flour not too finely bolted, 
rye-bread is suitable to certain forms of dyspepsia with 
costiveness, and the subjects of which are of a san- 
guine temperament. Spiced rye-cakes were, for a long 
period, greatly in vogue in Europe— from the time of 
the Romans to that of Louis XIV. 

The diseased grain of rye, or ergot, ground with the 
sound grain, and eaten in bread, has caused alarming 
and, in some instances, extensive and fatal diseases. 

Rye-meal, boiled in water, (rye-mush,) is often re- 
commended by physicians, to be taken with milk, or in 
worse cases with molasses, for breakfast, to obviate 
constipation. In certain surgical cases, this simple 
regimen obviates many difficulties. 



yGoogk 



PEARL BARLfiT-^BABX.Kr'-WATEB. 145 

Barley, which in both atKsient and modern times pte- 
ceded wheat as a bread-corn, does not, owing to the 
small quantity of ghrten in its flour, make good bread, 
so far at least as lightness and porousness are concerned. 
It is now little used. 

The husk or skin of barley is acrid and slightly laza* 
live. Deprived of this, the grain, to which then the 
name of Scotch or pearl barley is given, is highly 
nutritious and bland. Its aqueous decoction, or bar^ 
ley-watery as it is called, is demulcent and easy of 
digestion, and, especially when acidulated with lime or 
lemon juice, is a very refreshing drink in feverish con- 
ditions of the S5rstem. Barley-water and rice-water, 
are the two drinks peculiarly adapted to disordered 
digestion, marked by pain, thirst, and looseness of the 
bowels. The directions for making barley-water are 
as follows: Pearl barley, two and a half ounces; water, 
four pints and a half; first wash away with water 
the foreign matters adhering to the barley seeds; then 
half a pint of water being poured on them, boil the 
eeeds a little while. This water being thrown away, 
pour the remainder of the water, first made hot, on 
them: boil down to two pints and strain. 

Of late years, the barley-flour made from the pearl 
barley has, to a certain extent, taken the place of this 
latter. Barley-water is made by tnixing a tablespoonful 
of this flour with two tablespoonsful of cold water, then 
add one quart of boiling water: boil for ten minutes, 
and then strain through thin muslin. Sweeten and 
otherwise flavour as may be desired. 
• Count Rumford regards barley-meal as being three 
or four times as nutritious as wheat-flour. In repeating 
the opinion, I do not vouch for, but rather doubt, its 
ftccuraoy. 
13 



yGoogk 



14^ ymamTAxiM 7oo9« 

Oat-meal is not susceptible of panificatioo; but is 
made into thin cakes, with water, sometimes with milk 
and aromatic seeds, and baked before the fire. Pre- 
pared in the first-mentioned fashion, and boiled with 
water to a tolerably thick consistence (porridge), it con* 
stitutes, as abready mentioned, the chief and sole cereal 
nutriment of a large proportion of the people both of 
Ireland and Scotland. A more delicate and savoury 
preparation, called sowans, is made by allowing the 
coarser meal and bran to ferment in ,water, until the 
fluid is slightly acid; it is then strained and boiled. On 
cooling, it forms a kind of jelly, which, eaten with milk 
or cream and sugar, is quite palatable. Oat-bread 
sometimes causes heartburn and other dyspeptic symp- 
toms. 

In England and the United States, the knowledge 
of oat-meal is almost entirely derived from its use iu 
the preparation of gruel, a light liquid aliment, and, on 
occasions, a drink, which is taken with much benefit in 
a great number of morbid conditions of the animi^l 
economy. It is often drunk after purgative medidnes, 
to aid their operation, and mitigate, at times, their vio- 
lence. Water-guel is prepared, by first mixing well 
two tablespoonsful of oat-meal with six of cold water in 
a basin, and then adding this gradually to a quart of 
boiling water, constantly stirring it until it is sufficiently 
boiled, which will be in about ten minutes. On taking 
it off the fire, it is to be strained; if it is desired to have 
it quite clear, it may, when cold, be decanted from the 
sediment. Sugar, acids, or aromatics may be employed 
for flavouring. A more nutritive gruel being required, 
p, pint of boiling milk may be added to a pint of water, 
in which the oat-meal ha^ been previously well mixed, 
and the whole is then to be boiled for five minutes^ 



yGoogk 



PBEPARA'TIOVS 09 SI0>^^-C0NOXB. 14T 

Stirring if carefnlly all the while to prevent the oat* 
meat frdm burning at the bottom of the pan; and after-^ 
wards to be skimmed and strained through a hair sieve. 
This may be sweetened and otherwise flavoured, in the 
same manner as directed for water-gruel. 

A decoction or infusion of wheat-bran, prepared simi- 
larly to water-gruely is sometimes used by invalids as a 
demulcent in catarrh, and to keep up a relaxed state of 
the bowels. 

Rice, owing to the almo^ entire absence of gluten in 
its composition, is unfitted for pahification; but although 
so inferior to wheat in this respect, it has some marked 
advantages over all the other cerealia, viz: in its bear* 
ing transportation so well without change or deteriora- 
tion, and, owing to its having no bran, in the readiness 
with which it can be served up for alimentary use after 
simple boiling. Hence, rice ought to form part of the 
stores hi every long voyage. If we desire to know the 
various fashions of preparing it for aliment, so as to 
please the palate without loss of its nutritive proper-t 
ties, we ought to consult the records of Indo-Chinese 
cookery. A common dish with the people of the Ekst, 
is kicherif or rice boiled and dressed with lentils or with 
small beans. Rke torrefied, and the central part of the 
grain exposed, and then boiled in a small quantity of 
water, and pressed into a kind of cake before the grain 
becomes dry, may be preserved for a length of time, 
ready for immediate use. The conunon and simplest 
form of preparation, is by boiling the rice in a moderate 
quantity of water until it becomes softened, and the 
liquid white and slightly consistent. This is congee^ as 
familiar to the Hindoos as, porridge to the Irish, polent& 
lb the Italians, or mush to the Americans. Rice eaters 
are confieni with this simple food, sligfady seasoned 



yGoogk 



149 VfiaXT^lU FOOP* 

with some ajromatic or spice; tfaey dxvbk waXei, and ara 
ignorant of that multiplicity of animal alin^nts, which 
become so frequently a cause of disease to Europeans 
and Angl^Americans. 

Rice nourishes with such little irritation and with so 
little excremential residue, that persons, unaccustomed 
to its use, cannot persuade themselves of Us adaptation 
lo their own cases, even at the very time that it is both 
mitigating their disease and renovating theit exhausted 
strength. In the forming ^age of violent disease, as 
well as in lingering mialadies of less intensity, a restrict 
tion to a rice diet will often sii^olarly mitigate the 
former, and give a salutary direction to the latter. This 
observation is peculiarly appUcable to inflammation of 
the stomach or bowels, to acute dysentery, and to 
chronic affections also of the digestive canal. I have 
repeatedly found looseness of the bowels, with griping 
and some fever, controlled completely by a regimen 
consisting of rice** water for drink, and of boiled rice or 
rice^jelly as the chief article of food. A prompt re« 
course to this diet, the seasoning for which is either 
sugar with nutmeg or cinnamon, or salt, will, if it da not 
cure, at least greatly &cilitate this result, by remov- 
ing some of the most serious symptoms. Rice*jeUy is 
made by boiling two ounces of the flour, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of loaf sugar, in one pint of water, until 
it become thick and transparent; it is then to be allowed 
to cool, and forms a palatable and wholesome aliment. 
Additional flavour may be given to it by a Uttle rose or 
omnge flower- water. As ground rice or rice-flour is 
nmdi more apt to be somewhat musty or acquire a 
foreign flavour than rice in grain, it is well to know that 
all the preparations desirable for an invalid can be made 
out of the Uitter. By slow aqd careful boiling the rice in 



yGoogk 



RICE J}IBT'*-^lK|>IAlf MEAL. 149 

grain^ 6v1b]: a fire not tdo hat, in a small (juantUy of wa* 
ter, there will result a homog^eous fluid, white, and of 
(he comistence of cream, which, if put adide to cool, is 
soon converted into a jelly. 

The rice diet here recomn^nded as so useful in the 
forming stage of disease, if it be taken in place of animal 
or other stimulatiug food, is not less beneficial in conva- 
lescence from febrile and other maladies. In the sum- 
mer complaints of children,! know no articles compara- 
ble, both as nutritive and medicinal, to rice-water and 
rice-K^ream, either sweetened or salted, according to the 
taste of the sick person. In cases of acidity of stomach 
and flatulent bowels, salt is the best addition, either to 
rice or to berley-water, or gruel. 

When not forbidden by a feverish or inflammatory 
state of the system, ribe and milk for daily use, is an 
excellent diet,, of the most nourishing kind. The rice 
diould be islowly simmered for three or four hours with 
the milk untiT the grains burst, and absorbing the milk^ 
swell up. If the two be now poured out x)f the sauce- 
pan or skillet into a wide dish and put in an oven for 
half an hour or so, until the surface is slightly browned, 
sugar having been previously added, there results a 
plain, wholesome, and nutritive rice pudding. 

Maize or Indian corn-meal, though not susceptible of 
panification alone, makes, in a certain proportion with 
wheat flour, excellent and wholesome bread, which re- 
tains the requisite softness and moisture for thirty-six 
hours after being baked. In the greater part of Ame- 
rica, both North and South, corn-meal is made into 
cakes of all sizes, and with various other substances 
combined, — milk, eggs, &c.; also into pudding. The 
commonest mode of preparing it for bread is simply to 

13* 



yGoogk 



work it well with water and a little sett, and then to 
bake it over live coal, or in a pan, or oven. 

Mush, made by stirring a certain portion of corn meal 
in boiling water, until the desired consistence is obtain- 
ed, is an article of common use, and taken with milk or 
cream, is both nutritive and agreeable. At first, mush, 
and even sometimes corn-bread also, slightly acts on the 
bowels, and hence it is recommended in cases of costivi9- 
ness; but unless it be taken with molasses we cannot 
much rely on its operation in this way. Hulled and 
broken, or half-ground corn, under the name of hominy, 
is largely used as a vegetable at dinner; it approaches 
in this state very closely to rice, which it resembles so 
much in its composition, — maize consisting mainly of 
Starch. In virtue of this proximate principle, Indian 
corn is converted too often and too largely into ardent 
spirits by the medium of the still. 

Water-gruel, made of Indian corn-meal, has nearly 
the same virtues, and is used under the same circum* 
stances, as oatmeal gruel or barley-water. It has the 
disadvantage of which the first of these two is also ao* 
cused, viz: of causing sometimes heartburn. This effeot 
in both cases, and it is experienced also by many in eat- 
ing the bread, is owing to the bran which is not entirely 
separated from the fecula, and which, as in the case of 
that of barley, is somewhat irritating. A peculiar vols* 
tile and somewhat acrid oil resides in the bran or husk 
of barley. 

Buckwheat does not, I believe, enter into the compo* 
sition of any kind of bread in the United States. Its use 
is, what the physicians call extemporaneous, for con* 
sumption at the time of its being made: it is formed into 
thin flat cakes with the addition of yeast — a small portion 
of Indian meal previously mixed with the buckwheat 



yGoogk 



8TABCH Ur TftSXa«^JUUAO FROM IT. 151 

iour is an impf ovement in this oase. In dKffeient parts 
of Earope^ bockwbeat meal is used atone, or mixed with 
the flour of one or more of the other cerealia in the ma* 
nufacture of bread. Its starch gives it nutriment, but 
having little or no gluten, it does not panify or make 
good leavened bread. In Westphalia and some other 
parts of Germany, a nourishing but gross bread is made 
of the flour of barley, rye and buckwheat. I might 
have mentioned, in its place, that a common kind of 
bread in Germany is the Locke witz, which is made by 
mixing dough made of wheat flour and yeast, with an 
equal weight of doiigh made of fine rye flour and leaven, 
the whole kneaded together, and the dough then divided 
into small loaves. 

The starch which is found to exist in many roots and 
other parts of shrubs and trees renders these somewhat 
nutritious, and they have accordingly in times of great 
scarcity been used for food. In the north of Sweden 
and of Norway, it in no uncommon thing for the pea^ 
santry to mix the inner bark of the pine and larch, pre* 
viously ground, with rye meal, and convert them after 
proper kneading into bread. So abundant is the starch 
in the bark of some of these trees, including also aspens, 
that it can be extracted from them as from potatoes by 
trituration with water, {Liebigy Organ. Chem., &c., p. 
U 9-120.)* 

* As it may diminish tlie feeling of painful sympathy in the 
minds of many sensitive persons for the people who nse bread such 
as that just described in the text, I shall here transcribe the direc- 
Uons given by Professor Autenreith, for preparing a palatable end 
nntritious bread from the beech and other woods destitute of turpen- 
tine. Everything soluble in water is first removed by frequent ma- 
eeration and boiling, the wood ia then to be reduced to a minute 
state of division, not merely into fine fibres, but actual powder; and 



yGoogk 



15)8 TXOBTABLB FOOD. 

Unleavened bread or biscuit is made in rerj greait 
quantities for consumption both on land and isea, bnt still 
more on the latter. It is almost the only kind of bread 
eaten by the crews of vessels, both of trade and war^ 
and on its suitable preparation out of good flour and its 
being kept subsequently dry, will depend very much 
the health of the sailor during a long voyage. With 
good bread and plenty of good water, dry hammock, 
and dry clothes to sleep in, he may laugh at scurvy, 
even though he consume salt meat daily for months. 
When sea biscuit becomes damp, and is attacked by 
weevils, it ought to be passed through the oven, by 
which it regains much of its original freshness and fla- 
vour. 

Near Portsmouth (England) there is a goveniment 
manufactory of biscuit, in which the flour having been 
mixed with the water at the rate of 280 pounds (or a 
sack) to 13 gallons of water, is efiectually stirred with 
double sets of knives or stones in a minute and a half, 
and then subjected to back rollers to ensure complete 
incorporation and kneadmg. The dough is drawn out 
and cut by other machinery. The biscuit is baked in a 
quarter of an hour. In a period of time equal to seventy- 
after being repeatedly sabjected to heat in an oven, is groand in the 
usual manner of corn. Wood thus prepared, according to Mr. A., 
acquires the smell and taste of com flour. It is, howeTor, neyer 
quite white. It agrees with corn flour in not fermenting without the 
addition of leaven, and in this case some leaven of corn flour is 
found to answer best. With this it makes a perfectly uniform and 
spongy bread; and when it is thoroughly baked, and has much crust, 
it has a much better taste of bread than that which in time of scar- 
city is prepared from bran and husks of com. Wood flour, also, 
boiled in water, forms a thick, tough» trembling jelly, which is Teiy 
nutritious. 



yGoogk 



SXA-BISCUIT. 15S 

seven working days often hours each, 1,8789400 lbs. of 
biscuit have been made, in ten ovens, at this establish- 
ment. 

In making, here at home, the best sea-biscuit or 
American crackers, the fine stiff dough, on being beaten 
or rolled out on a dresser with a mallet or roller, is 
doubled again, rolled or beaten^ and the doubling re- 
peated several times, by which means the biscuits split 
into flakes when broken. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER VII. 

VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Leguminous Seeds, or Pulse. Their chemical composition, — and 
highly nutritive properties. The Pea,— its extensive use in 
Europe and consumption by some of the people of England— Its 
culture and use in the East — Hindoostan, and in Egjpi — The 
Chick Pea— The Bean, its use in Egypt, Europe, and West Indies 
— The ^idiiey Bean, — a native of India— Fricolis largely used 
in Mezico^Kinds eaten in Africa — lentils, large use of in 
Catholic countries, — Potato,— its American origin, extended cul- 
tivation in Ireland, Great Britain and other parts of the world — 
Relative proportion of nutriment in wheat and potatoes— Abundant 
population where the potato is the staple food— Cluantity consumed 
in Great Britain and in the United States— Sweet Potato— Yam- 
its mode of cultivation, and preparation for food-rCassava, — its 
preparation- Largely used for food — Tapioca — Succulent Roots 
— Tumip^Carrot — Parsnip — Skerret — Beet — Mangel Wurzel 
— Proximate principles in each of these roots— Salep, — its nutri- 
tive properties, — combination with wheat flour — Arrow Root — its 
varieties and uses— Brazilian arrow root— Sago— its preparation, 
and extensive use as food— Mosses — nutritive and gelatinous — 
varieties of and their uses« 

The second division of farinaceous seeds is the Le- 
guminous or PoDDEDy which are commonly designated 
by the term Pulse. Next to the cerealia and the po- 
tato, they are the most important of esculent vegetables. 
They are numerous and most universally diflfused; and 
many which are not applicable for human food can still 
be advantageously used as nourishment for domestic 
animals. In tropical regions, and on an arid soil, in 



yGoogk 



PULSE— -THBnt COBCFOSITION. '155 

which neither rice nor wheat can be grown, sonoe kind 
or another of the legumes will thrive and fbrnirii^ food 
to. the inhabitants. The pulses, which are sown in th# 
rainless parts of India, not only grow themselves, but 
often, by the moisture whicih they attract from the at- 
mosphere, aid in preserving millet and other small 
grain with which they are mixed. The Hindoo sows 
his smBil grain in order that he may have a good crop 
if the season should send him rain, and he at the same 
time sows pulse, in order that he may not only reap 
pulse in the event of a drought, but that he may even 
then, perhaps, obtain with it a little accompanying 
grain. 

Sir Humphrey Davy found that 1000 parts of bean 
flour yielded 570 parts of nutritive matter, of which 
426 are mucUage or starch, 103 gluten and 41 extract 

The Pea, in 1000 parts, gives 574 of nutritive or 
soluble matter, of which 501 are mucilage or vegeto- 
animal matter, 23 sugar, 35 gluten; 16 extractive matter 
remaining insoluble during the operation. 

The Kidney Bean, according to Einhoff, yields out 
of 3840 parts, 1805 parts analogous to starch, 851 of 
vegeto-animal matter, 799 parts of mucilage. 

The flour of the cerealia, on being subject^ to ma*- 
ceration in water, always develops acid: the flour of the 
leguminosaB, in similar circumstances, always manifiosts 
an alkali, which is an evidence of their having azote and 
an approach to animal matter in their composition. 

The Pea is one of the most esteemed of the legu* 
minous or pulse plants. It is supposed to be indigenous 
to the south of Europe, and was cultivated by the 
Greeks and Romans, the latter of whom probably im 
Irodoced it into Britain. Tfaece are many varieties 
grown in that country; but the common garden pea^ 



yGoogk 



156 ▼S«STABLX jrooD. 

(Pisum satwum,) and the common gray or field pea, 
{PUum arveruef) are the most generally ealtiyated« 
But mnce the introduction of drill husbandry, continues 
Mr. MK/uUoch, whose language I am now using, the 
culture of the pea, as a £eld crop, has been to a con* 
siderable extent superseded by the bean. Sometimes, 
however, it is drilled along with the latter; for being a 
climbing plant, it attaches itself to the bean, so as to 
admit the ground being hoed^ at the same time that the 
free admission of air about its roots promotes its growth* 
As regards the use of the pea for food in Great Britain, 
Mr. M^Culloch tells us, that the field pea is now hardly 
ever manufactured for the purpose of being made into 
bread, as was formerly the case in many parts of the 
country; but there is reason to think that the garden 
pea is now more extensively used than ever. It wilt 
be remembered by the reader, that by a computation of 
Dr. Colquhoun, in 1812, half a million of persons in the 
United Kingdom lived on peas and beans. We shall 
not probably be far wrong in believing that about the 
pome number of persons now subsist on these pulse in 
those countries. Peas are always in constant demand; 
they are consumed in immense quantities as sea pro- 
visions; they are likewise largely supplied to hospitals, 
infirmaries and workhouses, and are in familiar use in 
private families. The importation of pulse into Great 
Britain, in 1831, from foreign countries, amounted to 
59,560 quarters, or 476,480 bushels of peas; and 23,388 
qiiarters or 187,104 bushels of beans. The greater pro- 
pc^on of both these legumes came from the north of 
Europe, and more particularly Russia and Denmark; 
■od still more from Russia and Germany. The Netb«r- 
buds fomtsbed next to Germany the largest share of 



yGoogk 



PARCRSD PXA8-- <?SieX PEA. 167 

beans; and the 'CoamriiM a3 far south as Ilaly and Malta 
sent some. 

Reference has been already made to the extended 
eakare of leguminous crops m India. The exports of 
pulse frodi Calcutta, in 1830, exceeded 1300 tons. In 
those hot regions with an arid soil, in which travellers 
are constrained to. carry their scanty provisions with 
them across vast sandy and desert tracts, they gladly 
supply themselves with small jdried substances, which 
require much mastication and thus stimulate the sali<» 
vary glands. Under these circumstances, parched chick 
peas, or leblebby, are in great demand, and are as com- 
mon in the shops as biscuits in those of England. In 
Grand Cairo and Damascus, there are many persons 
who make it their sole business to fry peas, for the sup- 
ply of those who traverse the deserf. 

The Chick Pjba {Cicer arietinum) was, according 
to Bellonius, the parched pulse which formed the com- 
mon provision of the Hebrews when they took the field; 
and Cassianus supposes it to have been the torrified 
seed mentioned by Plautus and Aristophanes. The 
frieium deer seems also to have constituted a part of 
the usual food of the lower orders at Rome. (Lib. En* 
iertain. Knowledge,) The North Americah Indian, 
when engaged in war, or unsuccessful chase, will sub^ 
sist for some time on the parched grain of Indian corn. 

The seeds of the kerkedan, a small shrub found 
growing wild, and sometimes cultivated in the north of 
Nubia, are made into a kind of bread, and form the 
principal food of the Eerrarish Arabs; and a decoction 
of the roasted grains is used as a substitute for coffee. 
Another shrub, called symka, indigenous to the same 
country, produces legumes resembling peas, and ooor 
taining round rose-coloured seeds, which afford excel- 
14 



yGoogk 



1 56 VSOXTABLB FOOD. 

lent oourishment for oamels, and are^ wh^n green, en^ 
ployed as human food. These^ likewise, as we leani 
from Burkhardt, the Arabs collect and dry, and by 
hard boiling obtain from them an oil which they use 
instead of butter to grease their hair and bodies. 

The Bean ( Vicia faba*) is said to haVe been first 
cultivated in Egypt. It is now extended to the east* 
ward as far as China and Japanj and is generally used 
as an esculent in many p^rts of Africa; from the northers 
coast of which, some of the more valuable varieties 
were transplanted by the Moors into Spain, and by the 
Portuguese into their own coutitry. When stewed 
with oil and garlic, beans form, according to Shaw, the 
principal food of persons of all classes in Barbary. 

The bean in its green state is well known as a culi- 
nary vegetable. It* is oAen,in Ireland, served up to the 
labourers, bruised and rhixed with mashed potatoes to 
which butter is added. When mature and dried, it is 
liever used as human food in this country, but is then 
considered good though coarse nourishment fdr labour- 
ing horses. Campbell, in his Political Survey, published 
1774, mentions "that beans are exported for the food of 
the negroes, in our plantations, and are employed in 
feeding horses at home; so that altogether they are in 
daily use, and most certainly turn to a very considera- 
ble amount" King stated the annual consumptioD of 
beans at that time^ to be four millions, and of peas seven 
millions of bushels. The bean had an indifferent repu- 
tation among the ancients. Pythagoras expressly for- 
bade it to his disciplesf. Columella notices them in his 



* In all the subsequent notices of nQtritire vegetable snbstanceSt 
the botanidal terms refer to the plant or tree. 



yGoogk 



KIDNST*BBAK. 159 

time as food for the peasants only: <<And herbs they, 
mix with beans for vulgar fare/' 

The bean, thongh a coarser plant than the pea, is 
much more liable than this latter herb to disease and the 
depredations of insects. 

The large variety of beans called * Windsor Bean,' 
is the garden bean; it is larger than the field bean. 
Windsor beans, when fresh, are much used in the 
season, both alone and mashed and mixed up with po- 
tatoes, by the rural population in Ireland. 

KiDN£Y-B£AN (Phascohis) exhibits.two species culti- 
vated in England,andlargely in thiscountry,bothof them 
natives of warm climates. The d warf kiduey-beah {Fha- 
seolus vulgaris)f erroneously called the French bean, is 
a native of India. Ttie species called the runner (Fha- 
seolus multijlorus) comes from South America. In 
England the immature pod only is used as a legume; 
but in France and the United States also the ripe seeds, 
known by the name of haricot or French beans, are pre- 
pared in various ways as a favourite edible. It affords 
a good deal of the Lent food to the inhabitants of Rome, 
in the, shape of hc^ricots, fageoli and caravansas. The 
large kidney-bean sliced and stewed in milk is a common 
dish at the farm-houses in Flanders. The leaves of the 
kidney-bean afford, when boiled, a culinary vegetable, 
which the Nubians consider an excellent esculent. 

Some varieties of kidney-bean are found in cultivation 
throughout almost every civilized country of the western 
as well as of the eastern hemisphere. The small black 
beans called fricolu, which are in general demand all 
over Mexico, are no doubt a kind of kidney-bean. Re- 
cent travellers in that country relate that immense fields 
of these are under cultivation for the supply of the large 
cicies, where they form a part of every meal, and are 



yGoogk 



160 VEC^BTABLX FOOD. 

not only much prized by the inhabitants, but also by 
strangers. Among the prodactions of Bomou, Major 
Denham enumerates four kinds of beans, which are 
raised in great quantities, called muasagua, marya, 
kleeny J ^nd kimmay. These are eaten by the slaves 
and the poorer people. A paste compounded of beans 
and fish was the only eatable the Major and his com- 
panions could find in the towns near the river. (Lib. 
Bntert. Know.) 

Lentil {Ervum), The finest variety of lentil is the 
French. In most parts of the continent of Europe, 
lentils are cultivated for the use of man, and the seeds 
are made into soups, or become an ingredient in other 
culinary preparations. They are readily softened by, 
and mix wkh, water, forming with it a potage ^ a 
diocolate colour. In Gatholte countries, where the for- 
mulary of the church enjoins a number of meagre 
day% such plants as the kidney-bean and the lentil are 
more cultivated than they are in countries where the 
rdigion of the people does not prescribe these observ- 
ances. 
Lentils are largely used for food in Upper Egjrpt 
Potato, {Solanum Tuberosum.) It is now pretty 
generally understood that the potato is indigenous to 
Chili and Peru, in which countries it grows wild. The 
plant is very common about Valparaiso, and Mr. 
Crulckshank says, that he has noticed it along the coast 
for fifteen leagues to the northward of that port. There 
is one peculiarity ascribed to the wild plant, by this 
gentleman, viz. that the flowers are always /mre white^ 
free from the purple tint so common in the cultivated 
varieties. Amidst conflicting testimony and opinions on 
the subject, we must give to Sir Walter Raleigh the 
credit of introducing the potato. Its introduction by 



yGoogk 



POTATOES, WHXN IlffTRODUCED. 161 

bim into Ireland in 1610, is well authenticatlsd by cor- 
roborative testimony. Among the anecdotes told of 
this enterprising voyager, it is said that when his gar- 
dener at Youghall in the county of Cork, had reared to 
the full maturity of « apples' the potatoes which he had 
received from the knight, as a fine fruit from America, 
the man brought to his master one of the apples, and 
asked if that were the fine fruit.. Sir Walter having 
examined it, was, or feigned to be, so dissatisfied, that 
he ordered the < weed' to be rooted out. The gardener 
obeyed, and in rooting out the weeds found a bushel of 
potatoes. 

The discrepancy of opinion respecting the date of the 
introduction of the potato into Europe, seems to have 
arisen from confounding the common with the siveet 
potato, (Convolvulus Bat tolas.) The latter was intro* 
duced into Europe long before the former, and it seems 
DQost^robable that it was the species brought from New 
Grenada by Hawkins. 

Potatoes were at first looked upon as a great delicacy, 
and cultivated by a very few. The Royal Society, in 
1663, encouraged a more extensive cultivation of them, 
as a means of preventing famine. Previously, however, 
to 1684, they were raised only in the gardens of the 
nobility and gentry; but in that year, they were planted, 
for the first time, in the open fields in Lancashire^a 
county in which they have ever since been very extensive- 
ly cultivated. Their growth was more rapidly extended 
in Ireland than in England, and they have long furnished 
from two-thirds to four-fifths of the entire food of the 
people of Ireland. Potatoes were not raised in Scot- 
land, except in gardens, till 1728, when they were 
planted in the open fields by a person of the name of 
Prentice, a day labourer at Kilsyth. 

14* 



yGoogk 



Somie of the good people in Scotland were opposed, 
ftt first, to the new vegetable, declaring that ^ potatoes 
are not mentioned in the Bible." Some of the priests 
in the Ionian islands, at a later period, exponents pro- 
bably of the prejudices of the people, manifested their 
hostility by alleging that the potato was the forbiddea 
fruit, the cause of man's fall; and of course its use was 
both immoral and irreligious. Of a piece with this was 
the hostility of the French to the growth of the potato 
in their country, in their voting agamst a benevolent 
gentleman who took pains to foster its culture, under 
the plea that he had invented the potato. 

The potato was introduced from Ekigland into the 
Netherlands, and thence into Grermany, in the early pari 
of the last century. It was first cultivated in Sweden 
in 1720, but notwithstanding the exertions and recom« 
mendations of Linnssus, it did not come into general 
cultivation until 1764, when a royal edict was publi^ed 
for the encouragement of this branch of husbandry. 
. In France, much of the final success of its more 
extended cultivation, was due to the exertions of the 
benevolent Parmentier, who persevered amidst open 
opposition and ridicule of all kinds. For a while, the 
king, Louis XYI, and his court wore the flower of the 
potato in the button«holes of their coats, as a means of 
enlisting popular favour, or, what at that time was 
equivalent, fashion, on its side. The dearth, in the 
ir^ years of the French revolution, served to direct 
attention more and more to the cultivation of the potato, 
which, after a time, became general. To it were the 
l^eople of France and some other parts of Europe m* 
debled'for protection against fankine, in the disastrous 
years of 1816 and 1817. We might suppose, however^ 
from the following incident, that the prejudices against 



yGoogk 



POTATO m swiTZsmLAirB^— nroiA. 163 

Ihe loot were not so great m all parti of Fraoc^ eTea 
at the time in which ParmeDtier was labouring so hard 
in its fovoor. In the seven years war^l756«-176S — a 
small detachment of the French aimj, while in Saxonjr, 
having its supplies wholly cut off, the soldiers subsisted 
for eight or ted dajrs entirely on potatoes, obtained from 
the fields; nor was the manner of living considered 
among them as by any means a hardship. Less than 
thirty years before this event, the potato was unkuowu 
to the agriculturists of Saxony. 

About the middle of the last century, the culture of 
the potato in Switzerland, which was begun in 1790, 
had so much increased, that it constituted the food of 
two-thirds of the people. In the present day, it still 
forms a leading article of food among the peasantry of 
that country* It likewise makes a very prominent 
figure in the productive husbandry of Poland, where it 
is cultivated to an extraordinary extent. In lB27y as 
much as 4,i288,185 kovzecs of potatoes (each kovzec 
being nearly equal to two hundred weight), were pro^ 
duced in that country. In Italy, within the present 
century, the cultivation of the potato has been greatly 
encotnraged; and the traveller, in the city of Naples, for 
instance, must remember the laige vessels filled with 
boiled potatoes, in the public streets, and near the royal 
palace itself, from which, at a cheap rate, the poor and 
lazzaroni can procure a wholesdme meal — the supply 
of their favourite maccaroni being deficient or too dear. 

The potato was introduced into India some sixty or 
seventy years ago, and it is now successfully cultivated 
in Bengal, and has been introduced into the Madras 
provinces and Java, the Phiiiipines and China. But in 
common it does not thrive within the tropics, unless it be 
grown at an elevation of 3,000 or 4,000 feet above the 



yGoogk 



164 VBOXTABLX.VOOD. 

level of the sea, so that it can nerer come into very ge- 
neral use in those regions. It has been well remarked 
by Mr. McCulloch: "So rapid an extension of the taste 
for, and the cultivation of an exotic, lias no parallel in 
the history of industry; it has had, and will continue to 
have, the most powerful influence on the condition of 
mankind.'* 

In the United States, potatoes are cultivated to a great 
extent, and form a regular part of the daily food of a 
vast majority of the inhabitants. During the year 1840, 
there were upwards of a himdred millions of bushels 
raised, of which the state of New York yielded thirty 
millions, Pennsylvania more than nine millions and a 
half, Maine upwards of ten millions, Vermont more 
than eight millions. New Hampshire six milliona, 
Massachusetts five millions, Ohio about the same 
quantity. . From the most northern to the extreme 
southern Umits^from Maine to Louisiana, we find this 
esculent root largely cultivated. In this country, the 
potato. has its proper rank as an article of food— auxili- 
ary at all times, and in reserve on extra occasions, bat 
not as, in Ireland, the chief subsistence. 

From estimates of the proportionate nutritive proper- 
ties of potatoes and wheat, and the amount per acre of 
each . produced, deductions have been made as to the 
number of persons that could be supported on an acre 
of land planted with the former, compared with those 
that might be supported on an acre sown with wheats 
By some, the proportion is stated to be as high as six 
to one, and by others as only two to one. Mr. Newen- 
ham (on the Population of Ireland) states, that three 
pounds of good mealy potatoes are, undoubtedly, more 
than an equivalent to one pound of bread. Mr. Arthar 
Young estimates one pound of wheat to be about eqaai 



yGoogk 



HUTRITiyE PKOPSRTIXS OT THE POTATO. 165, 

in Qtitriti?e power to five pounds of potatoes. According 
to this gentleman, the average produce of potatoes in 
Ireland may be taken at eighty^wo barrels the Irish 
acre, which, at twenty stone the barrel, is equal to 
22,960 pounds. Mr. McCuUoch suggests that four 
pounds of potatoes are equal to one pound of wheal; 
and if we divide, he says, the above product of an acr# 
by four, we have the {Standard in nutritive power of 
wheat, as 5,740 pounds. Mr. Young furUier estimates 
the average produce of wheia, by the Irish acre, at four 
quarters or thirty-two bushels; which, supponng the 
quarter to weigh four hundred and eighty pornids, gived 
in all 1,920 pounds^ or about one-thhrd part of the solid 
nutriment a^rded by an acre of pototoes. Even ia 
Gf eat Krttam, the soil of which is better adapted la 
the growdi of wheat, and thought to be less suitablo 
to that of the potato, it admits of demonstration that 
^ an aore of potatoes wilt feed double the number of in-^ 
dividuals that can be fed from an acre of wfaeat/^ 
(Cfeneral Rqport o/Scotlandy Vol. I. p. 571, quoted hf 
Idr. McCnIloefa.) Mr. Jacobs {T^acU on the Com 
TVade) believes that one acre of wheat will produoa 
sustenance for three persons, and one acre of potatoes 
will afford it to six and five-sixths. 

Another estimate of tte proportionate nutritive powers 
of potatoes and wheat, may be made in the iiDUowing 
manner. Supposing the product of an acre of potatoes 
to weigh nine tons, and that of wheat one ton^^then^ 
taking the estimate of Sir Humphrey Davy as the basis» 
—as wheat yields 950 parts of nutritive matter in 1,000^ 
and potatoes 290 in l,000,the quantity of nutritive nutter 
afforded by an acre of potatoes and that by one of wheat, 
will be neariy as nine to four; so that an acre of pota^ 



yGoogk 



jl66 VXOBTABLX VOOD. 

toes will supplf double the quantity of human food 
afforded by an acre of wheat. 

It is clear, therefore, says Mr. McCulloch, that the 
population of a potato feeding country may become, 
other things being about equalyfrom two to three times 
as dense as it would have been had the inhabitants fed 
wholly on com. But it is exceedingly doubtful whether 
an increase of population, brought about by a substi- 
tution of potato for wheat, is desirable. Its use as a 
subordinate or subsidiary species of food, is attended, 
continues Mr. McCulloch, with the best effects— pro- 
ducing both an increase of comfort and security; but 
there are certain circumstances inseparable from it, 
which would seem to oppose the most formidable ob- 
stacles to its advantageous use as a prime article of sub- 
4sistenee. Potatoes are a crop that cannot be kept on 
hand; ithey are irregular in the amount of produce, more 
so than wheat; they are not capable, owing to their 
bulk and weight, and difficulty of preserving them on 
ship board, of being imported in quantities when the 
home supply is deficient, or of exporting them when in 
excess. 

It is, therefore, of the utmost consequence to the well- 
being of every people, and to their protection in years 
of scarcity, that they should not subsist principally on 
the potato. In England, the pressure of a scarcity is 
evaded by resorting to inferior species of food, such as 
potatoes, and a lower standard of comfort; but if the 
people were habitually fed on the potato, this would be 
impracticable. The chances of famine would then be 
vastly increased, while, owing to the low value of the 
potato, as compared with most other things, the labourers 
would have less chance of preserving or acquiring a 
taste for animal food, or other necessaries and luxuries, 



y Google 



RELATIVE VALUE OI POTATOES AND WHEAT. 167 

and consequently of changing their actual condition for 
a better^ 

The view which this able writer takes of the question^ 
is, it seems to me, too exciosive, inasmuch as he sup- 
poses a choice between wheat and potatoes, or that the 
latter is only to be used as a last resource. In parts 
of France, Italy, and other countries in Etirope, where 
the culture of grain was either neglected, or from the 
nature of the soil and want of capital, impracticable, the 
growth of the potato has furnished a regular and ade- 
quate supply of food to the poorer landholders, and to 
the peasantry and labourers, which, in former times and 
linder previous arrangements, they did not possess. A 
more safe course than either reliance on wheat alone a^ 
on potatoes alone, is that in whidi the latter are regarded 
as Constituting the chief bulk of nutriment, the remainder 
consisting of wheat, or some of the other cerealia. In this 
way, a couiltry which is unable to furnish grain enough for 
the support of its people, may, by the cultivation of lands 
with potato, that are unfitted for grain, give abundant 
nutriment to all, and also admit of a considerable in- 
criBase of population without the fear of Amine or even 
dearth. In Ireland itself, the veriest beggar in town or 
country, receives and uses a portion of oatmeal in addi- 
tion to the potatoes, which is the staple of his food. 

When speaking of the different articles incorporated 
with wheat flour, in the making of cheap bread, .1 
detailed various processes by French scientific econo- 
mists, for combifting the potato starch with the mor6 
valuable and nutritive farina. It may now be added, 
that forty thousand tons of potatoes are annually manu- 
factured into flour, for the purpose of entering inter the 
composition of bread, within a circle of eight Iciagues 
from Paris. 



yGoogk 



166 TXttSTABLB FOOO. 

Various estimates have been made of the entire ralae 
of the potatoes annually consumed in Great Britaia and 
Ireland. Dr. Colquhoun^at the end of the late war, 
^Qciade it sixteen millions sterling. Mr. MeCuUoch thinks 
that it would have been nearer the truth, to estimate 
the value of the yearly produce of potatoes, in the em^ 
pire, at twelve millions. In France, it ha^ been esti^ 
niated diat the average annual product, in three year% 
of potatoes and chestnuts, was neariy one hundred and 
thirty millions of bushels. 

In an agricultural as well as hygienic, and even po* 
litico-economical view, the cultivation of the potato has 
Ihis great advantage, that it succeeds well in uplands 
and lighter soils, and even among the mountains, better, 
indeed, than in rich and strong lands; and hence an 
afaaoost unlimited supply of potatoes may be grown, and 
at small expense, without any diminution of profitable 
Torops of the cerealia^ the legumes, or, indeed, of any 
useful plant or substantial esculent vegetable. A potato 
Ins this farther recommendation, of causing an amelio- 
oration rather than an exhaustion of the soil 

In the eastern part of Prussia, as stated by Mr. Jacobs, 
in his Reports, potatoes are applied to many useful pur» 
5>08es. They are cultivated to a great extent, and by^ 
converting them into starch and treacle, that land is made 
lo yield a profit which might otherwise have produced 
A loss. Sugar did not answer so well, but the treacle 
«]npeared to Mr. Jacobs to be as sweet as any from the 
iropics; the only perceptible difference between theoa 
was that it had less consistence. 

The proximate principles in potato, and a compariaoa 
^, the amount of these with what is contained in the 
«erealia, as, also, the proportion of potato which may be 
advantageously added to wheat flour, in order to make 



yGoogk 



SWSST POTATO-— ¥AM. I Of 

a palatable and nutritious l^^ad, are subjects i^hicb 
have been placed before the reader in a former chapter. 

Potatoes eaten raw, have been found to be among the 
best remedies for the scurvy, as well as an excellent 
preventive^ 

Among the perverted applications of science, is the 
conversion of potatoes, by mashing and mixing them 
with malt, into ardent spirits. One hundred pounds of 
potatoes contain ^oni sixteen to twenty-two pounds of 
starch, susceptible of saccharification, and which yield 
one and two-third gallons, or sixteen pounds of proof 
spirit 

SwBET Potato, {Convolvulus JSattatas.)^-'Thi3 
plant, originally from the East Indies, is now most ex- 
tensively cultivated in America. To the inhabitants of 
the United States, from New Jersey to the Carolinas, it 
furnishes a pleasant and nutritious vegetable, resembling 
in its composition the common potato, but with the 
addition of saccharine matter, from which it derives its 
sweetness. So easy is it of cultivation in a climate of a 
suitable warmth, that many of the savage tribes have 
introduced it in their lands for their own consumption. 
In the southern states of the Union, and in the West 
Indies, sweet potatoes form a no small share of the food 
of the coloured population. 

Yah, {Dioscorea Sativa.) — Akin to the potato in its 
being a tuber, and in its nutritive principles, is the yam* 
It is the food of the people in the tropical regions, and 
those in which the potato does not thrive, as in Central 
America, the South Sea Islands, West Indies, &e^ It is a 
land of vine growing wild in the island of Ceylon and on 
the coast of Malabar; and is extensively cultivated in 
AsMtf Africa and America. The root is ofa closer texture 
than the potato, but, like it, is fitrinaceons. It requires, 
15 



yGoogk 



170 VBOSTABLS VOOD. 

however, to be planted in a richer soil, on the ftlopel of 
low hills or the bottoms of valleys. 

The Winged Yam^ {Dioscorea Mataj) is another 
species very generally cultivated; its roots attain to a 
larger size than the other, being frequently about three 
feet longi and weighing about thirty pounds. Both 
kinds are cultivated like the common potato; they are 
usually planted in August, and are fit for use in the No* 
vember and December following. When dug out of 
the earth, the roots are placed in the sun to dry, and are 
then put into sand or casks, where, if guarded from 
moisture, they may be preserved a considerable length 
of time, without being in any way injured in their 
quality. On this account they are an excellent sea* 
stock. An acre of ground has been known to produce 
from twenty to thirty thousand pounds weight 

The root is prepared for food, either by boiling or 
baking, and in this state it is used by a lai^e population, 
as a substitute both for bread and other vegetables. The 
juice of the yam is acrid, and excites an itching when 
applied to the skin. 

Taro, {Arum Esculentum.)"^This plant, like others 
of the genus arum, possesses both in the foliage and 
roots acrid qualities, such as those manifested by the 
cassava, but which, as in the case of this latter, are dis* 
sipated by baking or boiling. Thus prepared, it makes 
with the bread fruit, the chief food of the inhabitants of 
the Sandwich Islands, and other islands of the Polyne- 
sian group. From the root of the arum maculahim, 
or common wake-robin in England, a substance resem- 
bling the fecula of arrow-root, and recommended as a 
substitute of the latter, may be procured. 

CABSAYAy{Jatropha AtanihQt) Tapioea.Plani.'SonAi 
Axnerioa is held to be the native region of this plant; 



yGoogk 



CASSAVA OR TAFIOCA TULVT. 17t 

which formerly afibrded the greatest part of their stis- 
tenance to the entire native population of Uiis vast re- 
gion. In the Mexican states, cassava is more used on 
the western than on the eastern coast. It needs a dry 
situation and a good soil for its successful cultivation. 
Of the nine different species of Jatropha enumerated by 
botanists, there are but two cultivated for human food, 
viz., the Jatrdpha Manihot, or bitter cassava, and the 
Jatropha Janipha^ or sweet cassava. The first of these 
varieties is the more extensively cultivated, although in 
its natural state, that is before the root has been sub- 
jected to a suitable process, it is highly poisonous. The 
other is wholly innocuous and equally agreeable with 
the latter, when converted into bread. 

When first dug out of the ground, the tubers^or roots, 
which resemble parsnips in appearance, are washed 
clean; the rind, which is of a dark colour, is then peeled 
off, and the root is ground or grated. In Brazil, where 
the preparation of mandioc is carried on to a greater ex- 
tent than in any other place, many persons are employed 
together in peeling the roots, which are then applied to 
and pressed against the face of a wheel that is made 
to revolve with great velocity; and in this manner they 
are ground, a trough being placed beneath the wheel to 
receive the pulp. The next process is that of expressing 
the poisonous juice, which is effected by placing the pulp 
in bags, and subjecting it to the action of a press. The 
only farther operation required to fit it for consumption 
is that of baking, which is then performed on a hot iron 
hearth. The pulp being placed on this, forms itself 
into a very thin cake, similar to a pan cake, and fif- 
teen inches or more in diameter. During the period 
occupied in this baking, the cake is kept constantly in 
motion to prevent its being partially burnt, and as soon 



yGoogk 



ntt VXQXTABLB yOOB. 

as it is crisp it is removed from the fire: when sufficiently 
cool it is then quite fit for use. If kept in a dry situa^ 
tion, these cakes will remain good for a very long period. 
The Indians of Guiana^ among whom cassava is the 
chief bread; have recourse to a process somewhat dif- 
ferent from the above, as described by Stedman. 

To whatever cause the poisonous quality of the juice 
of bitter cassava may be owing, it is so highly volatile 
as to be entirely dissipated by exposure to heat. It is 
sufficient, for this purpose, to cut the root into small 
pieces and to expose it during some hours to the direct 
rays of the sun. Cattle may then be fed on it with per- 
fect safety. 

The roots of the sweet cassava are eaten by the In- 
dians after being roasted in hot ashes, and without sab- 
tnitting them to the previous processes of grinding, and 
expressing the juice. The juice of mandioc is sometimes 
fermented with the addition of molasses, and converted 
into an intoxicating liquor, in great favour with the In- 
dians and negroes. This fatal knowledge was possessed 
by the former when they were first visited by Euro- 
peans. 

Appropriately enough does cassava follow the potato 
in this sketch of nutritive vegetable substances; not only 
on account of both of them being tubers, but also owing 
to their having a common principle, starch or fecula en- 
tering largely into their composition, and on which their 
nutrimental properties mainly depend. 

Tapioca is a kind of starch prepared from the farina of 
cassava roots, and which with a white milky and poison- 
ous juice makes up their composition. When the pulp 
is separated from the juice, in the manner already de- 
scribed, and washed, and dried in chimneys exposed to 
the smoke, and afterwards powdered, it constitutes Cos* 



yGoogk 



8ALXP. 173 

sava powder or Farine dt Manioc, If it be granulated 
by agitating it in a heated iron pan until incipient tume* 
faction, it is called Couaque or Couac. Lastly, when 
it is dried or baked into cakes on plates of iron or clay, 
it constitutes Cassava or Cassada bread. If the juice 
which is pressed from the rasped root be allowed to 
rest, it deposits a fecula: this when washed and dried 
on hot plates acquires a granular character, and is then 
termed Tapioca^ constituting a light and digestible nu- 
triment for children and invalids. 

Salsp, {Orchis Musculo.) — This plant is assiduously 
cultivated in the East, for the sake of its root, which 
forms a considerable part of the diet of Turkey, Syria 
and Persia. Botanists have enumerated many species 
of this genus of plants, which are fleshy rooted, and 
from several of which salep may be prepared. Salep 
comes to us in pieces of an oval form, very hard, ap- 
proaching to transparency, and of a yellowish white 
colour. The soil best adapted to the growth of the plant 
is that which is dry and not very fertile. It is worthy 
of remark, on this head, that in rich lands, and those 
which have been highly manured, the orchidiae do not 
come to maturity. The root is known to be fully ma- 
tured when the leaves and stalks begin to decay. It 
has been cultivated in England, and salep procured 
therefrom. 

Among the various methods for the preparation of 
salep, the following is worthy of being recorded. — The 
new root is first washed in warm water, when the fine 
brown skin with which it is covered may easily be 
rubbed away, by means of a coarse cloth or a brush. 
The roots being thus cleaned and peeled, are to be ar- 
ranged on a tin plate and then placed within an oven 
heated to the same degree as is necessary for baking 

15* 



yGoogk 



srraiKXKae. ifoft aa dI7atlla- 
r m iviy kog peiiod. 
is the 

r of the juice 
.xs 9»fc^hlf Tohtile 

^mcifn; inr us im . jii » car ite root klo small 

srs ^. IM ^1^ C«ntf SBBT ttHi ke M «ii it with per- 




[wiOioiitsiib- 

Eof giiDdiiig,aod 

:iiaoinetime8 

looDTerted 

:fc¥DarwdhtheIo- 




H ixrt iKSMr v^isK :ter woe fiiai Tisied by Emo- 



At^cvctcsci^^ «KW!k dMscMBsvA follow the potato 

^«t4l^^^Jxrc xWc±<^'';^b«Rbcswtiibas, bat also owing 
1^ :^hMt ^Ttfts^ a <t^8ttiMs pndpk, stuch or fecola en* 
HK^is^^KT^T :s3D^^ dKvc^icMddoa, and OQ which their 



yGoOgl^ 






«>K 






•^it. 



^ite "'-^j 






^-' *^ 






Digitized by GoOgl'^ 



174 VEOEf Ab&b foob. 

bread; here they are to remain from seven to tea 
minuted, in which time thiey will exchange their opaque 
and milky whiteness for a semi-transparent hom4ike 
appearance, and a yellowish colour, retaining their 
original bulk. Being then withdrawn from the oven, 
they ar€ exposed during some days to dry and harden 
in the air; or by the employment of a very gentle heat 
they may be brought to the same state in the course of a 
few hours; all that is then required to adapt the salep for 
food, is to boil it in water to the required consistence. 

It has been said that salep contains a greater quantity 
of nutriment in the same bulk than any other vegetable 
body; and for this reason it has been proposed, that it 
should be made to form a part of the provisions of 
every ship that undertakes a distant voyage. So high 
a nutritive power has been assigned to salep, that it is 
asserted, if one ounce of the powdered root, mixed 
with an equal quantity of stiff animal Jelly, known as 
portable soup, be boiled in two quarts of water, it will 
suffice for the daily nourishment of an able-bodied man. 

A small quantity of salep added to milk, has been 
found to retard the commencement of the acetous fer- 
mentation in this fluid; and Dr. Percival has shown, 
that if it be used in a moderate proportion, it would 
prore a very useful and economical addition to wheaten 
flour in the preparation of bread. He says, that an 
ounce of salep dissolved in a quart of water, and mixed 
with two pounds of flour, two ounces of yeast, and 
eighty grains of salt, produced a remarkably good loaf, 
weighing three pounds two ounces; while a loaf made 
of an equal quantity of the other ingredients, without 
the salep, weighed but two pounds twelve ouhces. If, 
however, the salep be in too large a quantity, its pecu- 
liar taste will be distinguishable in the bread. I would 



yGoogk 



▲BXOW-BOOT. 175 

remark on this statement, that, considering the composi^ 
tion of salep, in its being mainly starch or fecnla,a more 
economical and purer starch could be procured firopd the 
potato, or the potato-flour itself might be used, for mix- 
ture with wheat-flour, so as to make a wholesome, cheap 
and palatable bread. 

Salop, like tapioca, sago, arrow^d'oot and rice, is a light, 
simple, and nutritive article of food, peculiarly adapted 
to invalids and children,— and still more to those whose 
digestion is readily disordered by the acescency of com- 
mon vegetable substances, but yet to whom animal 
food would be too stimulating. Salep, on these ac- 
counts, was once high in favour with medical pra&> 
titioners; but its use has yielded to that of arrow-root, 
sago, and rice. 

Akrow-root, {Maranta .tf run Anaced.)— This plant 
is a native of South America; but has long been intro- 
troduced into the West Indies, Where it forms a pretty 
important article of cultivation. The root derives its 
name from its having been supposed, by mistaking it 
for another plant, {j^lpinia galanga,) to be an antidote 
against the poison transmitted by the arrows of the 
Indians. The Maranta has been carried from the 
West Indies to Ceylon, where it thrives extremely well, 
and where arrow-root of the finest quality has been 
manufactured from it. 

The nutritive powder, called in the shops fFest India 
and Bermuda arrow-root, is a fecula or nearly pure 
starch, obtained from the root, as follows: The roots 
(tubers) when a year old, are dug up, well washed in 
water, and then beaten in large, deep, wooden mortars 
to a pulp; this is thrown into a large tub of clean 
water; the whole is then well stirred, and the fibrous 
part wrung out by the hands and thrown away; the 
milky liquor, being passed through a hair sieve or 



yGoogk 



176 VSeSTABLX FOOD. 

coarse doth, is suffered to settle^ and the clear water is 
drained off; in the bottom of the vessel is a white 
masSy which is again mixed with clean water, and 
drained; lastly, the white mass is dried on sheets in the 
sun, and is pure starch. Dr. Prout regards arrow-root 
as a low variety of starch, analogous to the low sugar of 
honey; while wheat-starch, he considers, to be the most 
perfect form of starch, and analogous to sugar-candy. 

Potato-starch, sold in the shops as English arrow- 
root J is said to be sometimes substituted for the Indian 
arrow-root. The fraud may be easily detected by a 
good microscope. The particles of potato-starch are 
distinguishable from those of Indian arrow-root by their 
larger size, and by the concentric markings on their 
surface. Pure arrow-root is white, odourless, and taste- 
less. It is in the form of a light opaque white powder, 
<»r of small pulverulent masses. When pressed between 
the fingers, it feels firm; and when rubbed, produces a 
slight crackling noise. 

In 1835, 3581 cwt., and in 1838, 8538 cwt. of arrow- 
root were imported into Great Britain. 

Brazilian arrowroot is the fecula of the cassava, 
after being washed, add dried in the air without heat. 
It is termed also Moussachey (from the Spanish mou- 
chuca,) or Cipipa, and, for some years past, has been 
imported into France, from Martinique, and sold as 
arrow-root. An analogous fecula is prepared from the 
root of the Curcuma jingusti/olia in Hindostan. The 
dietetic and, to a certain extent, medicinal properties of 
arrow-root are the same as those of salep, tapioca, &c 
Its nutritive properties are considerable, and if taken 
with milk, boiled into a jelly, will furnish an abundant 
sustenance, even to a person who is required to use 
muscular exercise, if not actually to labour. 

Tous les Moisy or Starch of the Canfia Coccinea.^^ 



yGoogk 



SAGO. 177 

Recently, a fecula tinder this name has been introduced 
into the shops. It is prepared^ by a tedious and trou-^ 
bidsome process, from the root of the above-named 
plant. It has been recommended as forming a valuable 
article of food for the invalid; but whether it has any 
advantages in this respect superior to arrow-root, tapioca, 
or sago, may well be doubted. 

Sack), {Sa^s Farinifera.) — ^This variety of the sago 
plant is a native of Hindostan, and of Malacca, and . 
the Indian Islands. Another, from which also sago is 
procured, is Cycas revoluia^ a Chinese and Japanese 
plant The first-mentioned is also called Malay y or 
Sumphiv^s Sago-palm. 

In many places in the tropical regions where this 
kind of palm abounds, sago is the general food of the 
people. In Java, the word sago signifies bread. The 
sago is procured from the farinaceous pith which fills 
the central tube of the trunk of the tree. The maturity 
of the latter is known by the transpuration of a kind of 
whitish dust through the pores of the leaves; and when 
this appears, the trunk is felled near to the ground. 
The following is Forrest's description, — of the mode of 
preparing the pith for use as human food, — in his ac- 
count of the Molucca Islands: << The tree being felled, 
it is cut into lengths of five or six feet. A part of the 
hard wood is then sliced ofi; and the workman, coming 
io the pith, cuts across the longitudinal fibres and the 
pith together, leaving a part at each end uncut, so that 
when it is excavated there remains a trough, into 
which the pulp is again put, mixed with water, and 
beaten with a piece of wood. Then the fibres, sepa- 
rated from the pulp, float at top, and the flour subsides. 
After being cleared in this manner by several waters, 
the pulp is put into cylindrical baskets, made of the 



yGoogk 



178 VSGETABLX FOOD. 

leaves of t)ie tree; and if it is to be kept for some time, 
these baskets are generally sunk in fresh water to keep 
|t moist One tree will produce from two to four hun- 
dred weight of flour/' Mr. Crawford says, <*five or 
six hundred pounds is not an unusual produce for one 
tree.'* This is raw sago-meal. We seldom or never 
see sago in Europe but in a granulated state. To bring 
it into this state, from the flour or meal, it must be first 
moistened and pressed through a sieve into an iron pot 
(very shallow) held over a fire, which enables it to as- 
sume a globular form. Thus all our grained sago is 
half-baked, and will keep long. The pulp or powder, 
of which this is made, will also keep well if preserved 
from the air, but if exposed it will presently turn sour. 

Of late years, the Chinese of Malacca have invented 
a process, by which they refine sago so as to give it a 
fine pearly lustre. Sago occurs in commerce in two 
states, pulverulent and granulated. 

With us and in Europe, sago is used chiefly as a diet 
for invalids, and the sick in febrile diseases, in which'a 
stimulating food would be hazardous, if not positively 
deleterious. But in the East, as already observed, it 
forms a no small part of the food of the people in many 
districts. "The Malay sago-palm,** says Dr. Rox- 
burgh, "is the tree, the pith of which is the staff of life 
to the inhabitants of the Moluccas. Loaves of bread 
are sometimes made of the sago-flour by these people, 
which are baked in small ovens, the floors of which are 
divided, by means of partitions, into cells about the size 
of an octavo volume.*' 

When the sago-tree is cut down, the vegetative 
power still remains in the root, which again puts forth 
its leaves and forms the trunk; and this proceeds once 
more through its different stages, until it is again sub- 



yGoogk 



MOSSES. 179 

jected to the axe^ and made to yield its alimentary con- 
tents for the service of man. 

The export of sago to Europe and India is noir 
principally confined to Singapore* The quantity im- 
ported into England, in 1838, was 126,988 cwt.; and 
into France, in 1834, 41,312 ponnds. 

Mosses. — Different as this tribe of plants is from the 
cerealia and roots, it furnishes an analogous if not 
identical nutritive principle common to all of them; vis. 
fecula or starch. Of the esculent mosses, I shall only 
mention the Iceland moss, {Cettaria Islandiea;) the 
tripe de roche, as it is called by the Canadian hunters 
and guides, {Oyrophara Proboscidea and eylindrica;) 
and the reindeer moss, (CUulonia rangiferina.) 

Iceland moss is used as an edible substance by the 
Icelanders, who rarely obtain corn bread, and whose 
limited stock of substitutes obliges them to have re- 
course to every species of vegetable production which 
is permitted by their inclement climate to spring forth. 
The plant is collected by the inhabitants of this northern 
region, and after being washed, is either cut into pieces, 
or it is dried by the fire or in the sun, and then, put intct 
a bag, which is well beaten; it is ultimately worked 
into a powder by being trampled on, and in this state 
is used as food. This lichen is found growing on 
the mountains, both in the lowlands and highlands of 
Scotland. 

With the alimentary matter there is combined a bit- 
ter, on which itd alleged curative powers in consump- 
tion were supposed to depend. The bitter matter may 
be extracted by digesting th^ lichen in a cold weak 
alkaline solution, (composed of water 300 parts, and 
carbonate of potassa one part,) and afterwards washing 
it with cold water. It is then, if required for the use of 



yGoogk 



180 VBOETABLS FOOD. 

invalidfl, as a light and digestible aliment, to be boiled 
in water or milk. When this decoction is sufficiency 
concentrated it forais a jelly on cooling. 
. Reindeer moss is a well known example of a nutri* 
tive lichen, supporting the animals after whom it is 
named, when no other subsistence can be obtained. 

The tripe de roche moss supported Captain Sir John 
Franklin and his companions, in 1821, for many days; 
although the bitter principle proved noxious to many of 
bis party. 

Carraosen or Irish Moss, {Chondrus Crispiis,)is 
one of the algas or seed weeds, which was introduced 
into medicine a few years ago. It consists, like the 
lichens above mentioned, of a nutritive jelly, and a bitter 
principle. As a culinary article, it is employed as a 
substitute for animal jelly, in the preparation of bhne 
mange, jellies, white soup^ &c. 

SUCCULENT ROOTS. 

The roots which I shall next cursorily speak of are 
of limited nutritive value. They are the turnip, carroty 
parsnip, skerret, beet, and mangel wurzel. 

Turnip, {Brassica rapa,) — This root was well known 
to the Romans, Columella recommended that the 
growth of turnips should be abundant, because those 
which were not required for human food, could be 
given with much advantage to cattle; and both Pliny 
and he concur in their testimony, that this produce was 
esteemed next to corn in utility and value. The tur^ 
nip, in some of its varieties, is of very universal culture 
throughout Europe. In Sweden, it is a very favourite 
vegetable. The native Laplanders are so fond of this 
root, that they are often induced to part with a whole 
cheese in exchange for one single turnip. In Russia, 



yGoogk 



TUKKIF— TUaHBP BSBAD. 181 

as we are informed by Dr. Clarko, << the first Bobleniaii 
of the empire, when dismissed from attendance upon, 
bis person, may be fomid thron^out the day with his 
Beck bare, his beard lengthened, his body wrapped in a 
sheep's skin, eating raw turnips and drinldng qui^s.'' 

The turnip is a biennial plant The varieties, both 
under garden and field culture, are numerou& The 
loot of the French turnip, naveu^ is of very fine flavour, 
and in high repute on the continent of Europe. When 
used, the outer rind is not peeled off as in the common 
turnip, but merely scraped, since the peculiar taste 
chiefly resides in that part. 

The turnip appears to have been applied to more ex- 
tensive uses, as au esculent, in former times than at 
presents It is recorded, that in the years 162B and 
1630, when there was a dearth in England, very good^ 
white, lasting and wholesome bread was made of boiled 
turnips, deprived of tbeir moisture by pressure, and 
then kneaded with an equal quantity of wheaten flour^ 
the whole forming what was called turnip bread. The 
scarcity of grain, in 1693, obliged the poor people of 
Essex, again to have recourse to this kind of f(M>d. This 
bread could not, it is said, be distinguished by the eye 
from a wheaten loaf; neither did the smell mudi betray 
it, especially when cold. 

Turnips should be carefully peeled and well boiled 
before being brought to table. There is an amd principle^ 
analogous to that in the radish and in mustard, which, 
resides in the peel of the tnmip, and hence the proprietiy 
of directing that this be pared off to a sufficient depth. 
Boiled in milk, or mashed in milk, and all the lumps 
which are not readily bruised being withdrawn, turnips 
are a light, and to the sanguine and plethoric, and those 
of full habit or liable to hemorrhages, a wholesome and 
16 



yGoogk 



182 ySOETABLS FOOD. 

proper article of food. In sach cases bnlk, which 
suitably distends the stomach and obv^iates the feeling 
of hunger and sinking, is advantageous^ if the quantity of 
positively nutritive matter be small, and consequently the 
formation of much blood prevented. The turnip consists 
chiefly of water, combined with a soluble or nutritive 
matter in the small proportion of four to six per cent., of 
which three to five is of saccharine: of starch or analogous 
mucilage there are seven to nine parts in a thousand. 
Turnip juice, it is said, after being boiled, coagulates on 
cooling, and deposits vegetable albumen. Recently ex- 
pressed, it is colourless, but becomes brown by evapora- 
tion, and deposits a few grains of crystallized sugar. 
According to Drapier, nine per cent of this substance 
may be procured from the turnip root. This is too 
large an estimate in general. 

Cabbot, (Daucus Carota.) — Our ancestors are in- 
debted to the Flemings for the introduction of the car- 
rot into Engkind, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. This 
edible root, unlike the turnip, which began to attract 
notke about the same time, grew quickly into esteem, 
and being made an object of careful culture, was very 
shortly naturalized throughout Great Britain. The carrot 
is a biennial plant. The two chief varieties of carrot 
are the long and the horn-carrot. 

In estimating the dietetic value of the carrot, we 
must take into the calculation the different proportions, 
in different varieties and even sizes of the root, between 
the bark, as it is called, and the wood. The first is of 
the darkest colour, and of the most pulpy consistence, 
and it is also sweetest to the taste; the wood or heart, 
especially when the root has attained its full size, is 
more fibrous and stringy, and if it be separated from 



yGoogk 



CARROT— -PARSNIP. 183 

the other outer part, it is bristled over with hard pbints 
or fibres^ that extend to the rootlets outside. Almost 
the whole crown of the root, or the part which sends 
up the leaves, is connected with the wood, and only the 
skin or epidermis of the leaves and stem with the ex- 
ternal part of the root. As the external part, or the 
bark, is found to be more nutritious than the central 
part, consequently the value of the carrot, as an escu- 
lent, will depend on the relative proportions of these 
two parts of the root. On occasions in which the car- 
rot is prescribed, or is particularly desired by the in- 
valid himself, as an article of diet in chronic, or conva- 
lescence from acute disease, it may be advisable to 
separate the external portion' and retain it exclusively 
for the use of the patient, after suitable boiling or other 
modes of preparation, such as stewing. 

The remark made respecting the dietetic value of the 
turnip, applies also to the carrot. It is a light and 
wholesome vegetable aliment for those whose stomachs 
are not readily deranged by the saccharine principle. 
This exists in the carrot in the proportion of nine to ten 
per cent.; the nutritive or soluble is in about the same 
ratio, while starch or mucilage is as low as three parts 
in a thousand. The carrot enjoys a reputation which 
merits more credit than that claimed for most of the 
articles similarly praised. It is, of increasing the flow 
of milk in those mothers who eat of it freely. In Egypt 
the carrot is esteemed as a pickle. 

Parsnip. (Paetinacea Sativa.) — The parsnip belongs 
to the same tribe of plants ( Umbelliferse) as the carrot, 
and in it is also included those of very different pro- 
perties, such as the deadly hemlock and the gratefully 
aromatic caraway, sweet fennel, and dill. When the 
parsnip is grown upon poor land, it loses much of the 



yGoogk 



184 TSOBTABLS FOOD* 

lank taste which it acquires in richer soils, and Ihough 
not nearly so abundant, it is far ntiore sweet and agree- 
able. This root is wholesome as well as hardy, and 
tmy be used freely under the same circumstances as 
those indicated in speaking of turnip as ap aliment 
The dyspeptic who suffers from heartburn and flatu^ 
lence^ and whose circulation is slow and skin cold, will 
require a drier food, and those kinds in which the sac^ 
cbariue principle is either wanting or in small propor- 
tion. These, and the preceding remarks on the turnip 
and carrot, apply to the invalid lUid hitn who is obliged 
to Uve by rule. The robust labourer, and be who takes 
much and active exercise in the open air, requires no 
counsel in the use of these or of other vegetables, except 
that it will be prudent, if he eat much flesh meat, to 
take a larger proportionate allowance of these and other 
watery vegetables, such as spinach, than would be ne- 
cessary if bis food was chiefly of the farinaceous kind, 
with little meat. 

Parsnips, when slowly roasted in the ashes, become 
nearly as farinaceous as the best potatoes, and in some 
of the poorer districts of Great Britain are used with the 
eame additions as an article of substantive food. « In 
the north of Scotland,^' Neill observes, << parsnips are 
often beaten up with potatoes and a little butter; of this 
excellent mess the children of the peasantry are very 
fond, and they do not fail to thrive upon it.'' From the 
same authority we learn that in the north of Ireland an 
agreeable beverage is prepared from the roots brewed 
with hops. In Catholic countries the parsnip is more 
abundantly employed for human food than in Britain 
or the United States. The use of it with salt fish in Lei^ 
nay perhaps be regarded more as the reUc of an old 



yGoogk 



8KIRBBT — BEET* 185 

custom than as a choice arising from any partiality for 
this particular kind of viand. (Lib. EnterL Know.) 

The parsnip is, like the carrot, a biennial. It contains 
about 10 percent, of nutritive matter, viz: 9 per cent, of 
saccharine and 9 parts in a thousand of starchy matter. 
In Thuringia a syrup is prepared from it which is used 
instead of sugar. 

Th^ Skiret, {Slum Sisarum,) described by a writer 
in the seventeenth century as the << sweetest, whitest, 
and most wholesome of roots,'* is now seldom grown. 
The Emperor Tiberius esteemed, it so much, that he 
caused it to be brought from the banks of the Rhine for 
the use of his table. The luscious sweetness of this root 
is not adapted to the palates of the present age. 

Beet, {Beta,) — The root of this plant was known as 
an esculent in the time of Pliny. The red beet is the 
variety preferred. When eaten warm, beet-root has 
rather a mawkish flavour; it is, therefore, usually eaten 
cold^ and cut in slices, after having been previously boil- 
ed: with the addition of vinegar it is found by many to be 
agreeable to the palate. As far as my own observation 
extends, I should say that beet is the favourite succulent 
root in the United States. On the score of alimentary 
properties it ranks next to the potato, having nearly 15 
per cent of nutritive matter, of which 12 per cent, is of 
saccharine; and, in addition, 13 parts of glutinous or al- 
buminous matter, with 14 of starch in a thousand. Of 
its dietetic use I have the same opinion as of the roots 
already mentioned, viz: turnip, carrot, and parsnip. It 
is less apt, I think, than any of these, to excite heartburn 
or flatulency in weak stomachs. 

Since the beginning of the present century, beet has 
acquired great importance in a politico-economical view, 
owing to the large quantity of sugar manufactured from 

16* 



yGoogk 



186 TXOXTABLX FOOD. 

its Jake. In France particularly, beet-$ugar is as pare 
and good as that from the coionies, axKl in the narkety 
with the aid of sdcdo protecting duties, competes with 
the latter. 

Mangel WuazsL was introduced into France from 
Germany in the latter part of the last century, under the 
belief that it would rival the potato both as food for man 
and beast. By the Abb6 de Commerell in France, and 
Dr. Lettstom in England, great pains were taken to in- 
troduce this root to public and popular favour. The 
Abb6 says, when speaking of its general utility, <<iil 
years of scarcity, it will afford to men a healthful and 
agreeable food, and when forage is scarce or dear, will 
furnish cattle, both in summer and wmter, with a cheap 
and abundant nourishment." The latter is the only 
part of the prediction which has been fulfilled. The 
hopes derived from the large proportion o( saccharioe 
matter which it contains, that it would yield sugar to the 
manufacturer as beet has done, have not been realized. 
The leaves are eaten as a green, boiled like spinach. 

The reader will be better able to judge of the rela- 
tively nutritive properties of the preceding roots, taking 
potatoes as the standard, by looking over the following 
table, which is the result of Sir Humphrey Davy'i 
analysis of 1000 parts of each substance:-^ 



Whole qiantity 


Mueilafftor 


Saeebarhia 


Olitenoi 


of soluble or 


Starch. 


matter. 


Albumen. 


iiMtittiv« niAtter. 








Potato, 960 to 900 


900 tal^ 


90 to la 


30to4^ 


Red Beet, 148 


14 


121 


13 


Mangel Worael, 136 


13 


119 


4 


Common Tornip, 49 


7 


34 


1 


Swedish Tuniip, 64 


9 


51 


9 


Carrot, 96 


) 


95 




Parsnlis 99 


9 


90 





yGoogk 



CHAPTER VIII. 

VEGETABLE FOOD — FRTHTS. 

Other proximate principles in plants — Acids — Acetic, citric, malic, 
tartaric, Ac.— Extractive matter— Lignin. Fruits. — Eread-AmH, 
the suiple aliment in Polynesia— Modes of its preparation— Trans- 
planted to the West Indies- Baobab or murkey bread— its juice 
highly nutritive. Plantain and Banana — its extreme abundance 
in Mexico and in the West Indies— its alimentary Talne— Cocoa- 
nut — its many nses. Date — its various dietetic uses^highly prized 
by the Arabs— Date paste— Arabian Cookery— Anecdote. — Cacao, 
the basis of Chocolate— its extensive cultivation in Caraccas and 
Guayaquil— Amount of consumed in Europe^Analysis of cacao 
Iremel — Chesnut — its meal made into bread, in parts of France and 
Italy — also in Polynesia. Fig— its native country— was much used 
in Sjrria and Palestine — is grown in Spain and Portugal, also in 
Asia Minor— Might be largely in the United Slates— Dried figs, 
exported from Smyrna — Figs are grown in England— Capri fica- 
lion— Olive— its oil the nutritive part— Extensive use of— Palm oil 
—Walnut oil. 

, Before proceeding with this part of my wbjeety a 
Rotice of fruits used as food, it will be proper to make a 
few remarks 00 some proximate vegetable principles not 
introducedih a former chapter. I contented myself at thiiC 
lime with fixing the reader's attention on those principles^ 
which although proximate were also nutritive, as with 
these alone we had to deal in a detail of the several vege* 
table substances used for human food. Now, bo wever^ 
when another division of vegetable products, viz., fruits, 



yGoogk 



188 VXGETABLB FOOD — rRUITS. 

is about to engage our notice, it will be proper to indicate 
in addition to their strictly nutritive proximate princi- 
ples, other elements on which their grateful taste and 
refreshing and invigorating properties are believed to 
depend. The chief of these additional elements will be 
found to be acids of various kinds, combined with more 
or less extractive matter^ 

The vegetable acids most commonly met with are the 
acetic J citric^ maliCj and tartaric; those less so are the 
oxaliCy benzoic^ succinic and gallic. Acetic acid, is 
that which gives the distinctive and sharp flavour to 
vinegar. It exists ready formed in the sap of plants, 
either free or combined with lime or potassa; and is an 
abundant product of the acetous fermentation. All 
vegetable substances in which sugar exists, primarily, or 
developed by art as in the process of malting grain, 
undergo with water and suitable heat a change called 
fermentation, by which first alcohol and then acetic acid 
are formed. In this way we have from the fermentation of 
the juice of the grape, wine vinegar, which is one variety 
of acetic acid; from that of malt, beer vinegar, which is 
a second variety; and from that of sugar, sugar vinegar. 
The vinegar of cider is analogous to that of wine. Of 
late years, acetic acid has been procured in large quan- 
tities from the destructive distillation in cast iron cylin- 
ders, of vegetable substances, such as of oak, ash, birch 
and beech wood. For a while, the product of this 
kind of distillation was thought to be a peculiar acid 
which was named pyro-ligneous, and many excellent 
properties were attributed to it, both in domestic econo- 
my and in medicine. But although the chemical 
notion is erroneous, the applications of the add are not 
the less various and useful. It is now known that pyro<* 
ligneous is the acetic acid contaminated with tar, or 



yGoogk 



ACSTIC ACID— CITRIC ACID. 189 

creasote; and that its conaervatiye eflects on meat, &a 
are due to these substances conjointly with the acid. 
Properly purified and diluted with water, the acetic 
acid from this source makes the best and purest 
Yineg^. 

Free acetic acid has been found in the gastric juio^ 
and this fact comes in aid of an opinion deduced from 
general experience, that a moderate quantity of vinegar 
With food is a safe and salutary Condiment. This re«- 
ms^kis not intended however to apply to the absurd 
and cruel practice on themselves of some who take 
vinegar in laj^ quantities, with a view of keeping them* 
Belv^ thin or of reducing obesity. Where it acts in this 
way, it does so as any deleterious agent would do, by 
impairing if not destroying irrecoverably digestion. 

The antiseptic and preservative powers of acetic acid 
as we find it in common vinegar, are known to every 
person, and by good housewives are turned to account 
in various ways, especially in the preparation of pickles. 
For the most part these articles have little else in their 
substance than a fibrous and somewhat pulpy matter, 
possessed of little taste and still less nutritive properties; 
being conunonly fruits or vegetables gathered in their 
crude state, and serving little other purpose than to ab>- 
sorb and retain the acid on which their flavour and their 
effscts good or bad mainly depend. If taken in any 
quantity, the vegetable substance will offend a weak 
stomach by remaining in it for a length of time uu«> 
changed. 

Citric acid, derives its name from its abundance in, 
and being most commonly procured from, the fruit of the 
genus CilruSf represented by the lemon, linae and 
orange, &c. It is also the chief and almost the only 
acid in the fruits of Dnkamarsi, dog*rose, cranberry, bird 



yGoogk 



190 VEGETABLE 700]>«- FRUITS. 

cherry and whortleberry. Mixed whh an equal quan- 
tity of malic acid it is found in the gooseberry, red cur- 
rant, strawberry, raspberry, cherry, &c. In the tama- 
rind it exists both with malic and tartaric acids. In 
nature, citric acid is met with most abundantly in lemon 
juice; but even here it is in less proportion than would 
be detected by the taste, viz. not quite 2 per cent. — wa- 
ter being 97, and exceedingly minute proportions of 
malic acid, gum and bitter extractive, in all less than 
1 per cent., making up the remainder. The juice of 
lemons and limes is imported for citric acid manufac- 
turers, in pipes and hogsheads. Farther particulars 
respecting this acid and its hygienic uses, will be found 
under the head of* Lemon,* in the following chapter. 

Malic acid is named after the apple (malum) in 
which it prevails. It has also been called SorbiCy from 
the Sorbin acuparia^ ox mountain ash or service tree, the 
berries of which supply it in the greatest abundance. 
The sorbic was at first thought to be a distinct acid, but 
it is now ascertained to be identical with the malic 
.The pleasant acidity in the apple and in cider is derived 
from this acid, which is also met with in grapes, in con- 
junction with the tartaric acid, and in currants, goose- 
berries, and oranges, together with the citric acid; it is 
also present in the quince and pear. 

Tabtabic acid, so dominant in cream of tartar^ exists 
in its free state in grapes, tamarinds, and the pine-apple, 
and likewise in pepper. It is found in combination with 
an alkali (potassa) in a state equivalent to cream of tar- 
tar, in tamarinds, grapes, mulberries, &c., and with lime 
in a variety of the sumach (Rhus typhinum). In small 
quantities freely s diluted with water, tartaric acid forms 
a refreshing and cooling drink, which allays thirst after 
exercise, or the more craving kind in fever. Drunk with 



yGoogk 



TART ABIC, OXALIC, AND TANNIC ACIDS. 191 

any freedom it is a mild aperient, and may be had re* 
ooofse to in slighter cases of febrile disease with good 
effisct. It might be used as a cheap substitute for citric 
acid or lemon juice. In general it is procured in suffi- 
cient strength and with an increase of its medicinal 
powers in its state of combination with potassa, m the 
common saline preparation,— cr^am of tartar. It ought 
to be known, however, that the continued use of this 
add, or of the salt just mentioned, disturbs digestion, 
and produces other secondary unpleasant effects. The 
common sodaic powders are made by adding bicarbonate 
of soda to tartaric acid, in the proportions of half a 
drachm (30 grains) of the former, in a blue paper, and 
25 grains of the tartaric acid, in a white paper. Before 
use, they should be dissolved, each in a quarter of a 
pint of water, and then the one added to the other. 

Of the other vegetable acids, my notice will be quite 
brief. Oxalic add is found in both common and wood 
sorrel. It is one of the most powerful and rapidly fatal 
poisons which we possess, atid frequently accidents have 
occurred from its being mistaken and sold for Epsom- 
sak, with the appearance of which its crystals have 
some resemblance. These substances may, however, 
be readily distinguishable; the oxalic acid, for it may be 
tasted without danger, having a strong acidity, while the 
Epsom salt has a bitter saline taste. 

The benzoic and succinic acids are not proximate 
principles in any article of food or in fruits, but as be- 
longing to medicines need no farther mention here. 
Thnnic acid has also chiefly a medicinal application, aS' 
far as regards its effects in the animal economy; it has 
until recently been called tannin^ and is usually spoken 
of as the astringent principle in certain medicines. It 
is occasionally found in the skin of fruits, as in that of 



yGoogk 



192 VEOKTABLB FOOD— -VBUITS. 

grapes, and is one of the elements detected in certain 
wines^-^whence they derive their astringency. It also 
exists in the quince and probably in the, pomegranatew 

Extractive matter^ a familiar title in vegetable or 
organic chemistry, does not, however, convey a very 
definite meaning, at least of specific or peculiar proper^ 
ties. When vegetable juices are evaporated by a gentle 
heat in the air, a brown or brownish*black substance is 
precipitated as a product of the action of oxygen upon 
them. This substance, which appears to possess similar 
properties, from whatever juice obtained, has received 
the name of extractive matter; it is insoluble or very 
i^aringly soluble in water, but is dissolved with facility 
by alkalies. {Liebig. Organ. Chem.) By writers on Ma-* 
teria Medica,a difierent and more precise idea hasbeoi 
attempted to be conveyed in their use of the term ex- 
tractive matter; they suppose it is that to which vegetable 
tonics owe their bitterness and medicinal activity. Bat 
this opinion is not based on fact, for the bitter in different 
vegetable substances is connected with a different base: 
as with strychnia in nux vomica, quinia in Peruvian 
bark, morphia in opium, &c. To recur to the first defi- 
mtion of extractive matter; we may generally believe it 
to exist in pulpy fruits, and probably to contribute some* 
what to their nutritive properties. 

Lignin is another and the last vegetable principle 
which I shall notice in connection with the present sub- 
ject. It constitutes the liard fibrous structure of plants^ 
and is the ba^is of, and indeed makes up nearly the en- 
tire substance of wood, which contains 96 per cent of 
lignin. In a more attenuated and delicately retici^ted 
8tate.it exists in some esculent roots, as in the potato, 
aed in a few fruits. It conveys no nutriment, although 



yGoogk 



BBXAD-FAinr. Ids 

it is convertible into sugar by mixture and boiling with 
snlphuric acid. 

FRUITS, 

In speaking of fruits, in this chapter, I shall confine 
myself chiefly to those which are possessed of nutritive 
properties, and some of which contribute mainly to the 
support of the people in the regions where they grow. 
They are, therefore, entitled to notice as illustrative of 
national regimen. The most important are the bread- 
ihiit, the plantain and banana, the cocoa-nut, the chest- 
nut, the date, the cacao and the fig. 

The Bread-fruit is the product of a tree, (•Sriocar- 
pus incisoy) a native of the islands of the Pacific and 
the Mohiccas. It is to the inhabitants of Polynesia 
what bread-grain is to the people of other parts of the 
world. They are fond of it, and it evidently suits their 
constitutions, as a very perceptible improvement is often 
witnessed in their appearance a few weeks after the 
bread-fruit season has commenced. For the chiefs it is 
usually dressed three times a day, but the poorer classes 
seldom cook it more than once a day, and even rebake 
it on the next. Sometimes the natives of a district 
assemble to prepare it in a large and common oven, 
when it is called opio. This is done by digging a large 
pit, twenty or thirty feet round, and filling it with fire- 
wood and large stones, till the heat almost brings the 
latter to a state of liquefication, when the covering is 
removed, and many hundred of ripe bread-fruit thrown 
in, with a few leaves laid over them; the remaining hot 
stones are placed above them, and the whole covered 
with leaves and earth. It remains in this state a; day 
or two, when the parties to whom the fruit belongs dig- 
a hole, and taker out what they want, till the whole is- 
17 



yGoogk 



194 TBaETAB&X r<M>I>«^rBX7IT8. 

consumed. Bread-fruit tbim baked will keep good for 
several weeks after the oven is opened. This process 
is much discontinued since the introduction of Chris- 
tianity, owing to the debauchery, rioting, feasting and 
sleeping, which used to follow the opening of an opio 
oven. 

Sometimes the fruit imdergoes fermMitation, by being 
piled in heaps, and beaten to a kind of paste, when it is 
called mahi* It keeps many months, and though sour 
atid indigestible, is considered good food during the 
scarce seasons. The tree on which the bread-fruit 
grows, besides producing three or four . regular crops 
annually, and seldom being quite destitute of ripe fruit, 
fhmishes a valuable resin, that is used for making tight 
the seams of the canoes. There are fifty varieties of this 
tree. 

In the Sandwich Islands, the bread-fruit is usually 
eaten green, when its rind is thin, but bard^ like that of 
a mel^n, and entirely covered with slightly marked and 
small pentagonal sections. It is cooked by throwing it 
immediately in the fire, wheu' the outer ooat becomes 
ohiurred and tl>e inner coats only roaat, like the potato, 
which it resen^bles in general consistency, though it is 
ratbe« more spongy, and the whole, whea the riod is 
removed, has the appearance of a beautiful ligbt coloured 
soaking loaf. The taste is like the hard^-boiled yolk of 
an egg, slightly astringent. {Murruy^s Encjfclop^(t 
cf Geography, Vol. III. Am. Eiit) 

Captain Qook, in speaking of the utility and produo. 
tive[nj9ss of the bread«fruit» says, that if, in those parts 
-M^here it is not spontaneously produced, a man plant but 
\^ trees in his whole lifemnie, he will as. oompletely 
fulfil his duty tp b^s own ai^ to future geii!eratio«s,as the 
native of oui less te4pp«Hraf<9 c^im^te ean dq by ploughing 



yGoogk 



in the cold of winter, and reaping in the summer's heat, 
as often as thete seasons return, even if, afier he hab 
procured bread for bis present household, he should 
convert the surplus into money, and lay it up for his 
children. 

Towards the conclusion of the last century, the bread- 
fruit tree was transplanted to Jamaica, whence it was 
transferred to other islands, in which it has thriven and 
become abundant; but the negroes continue to prefer 
the plantain. 

The tree is propagated by shoots from the root: it 
bears in about £ve years, and will probably continue 
bearing for fifty. The fruit is something like a roundish 
or oval melon, with hexagonal marks, and six or eight 
inches. in diameter. 

Baobab or Moneet Bbbab, the fruit of the Jidan^ 
sonia digitata^ is one of the most valuable productions 
of Western Africa: it is likewise said to be found in 
Egypt and Abyssinia. The baobab is the largest known 
tree. The fruit is acid and agreeable, and the juice ex- 
pressed from it, mixed with sugar, forms a drink highly 
prized in low fevers. Bo wdich mentions that it possesses 
such an agreeable odour, and is so abundant, that it con- 
statutes a principal article of food with the natives, who 
season many of their dishes with it. It forms an artiolci 
of commerce, and reaches Morocco and Egypt. 

Banana Snd Plantain, (Musa Paradisiaca and 
Musa Sapientium^) varieties of the same herbaceous 
plant, constitute the food of a large portion of the people 
of Mexico and the West Indi^, and the islands of the 
Pacific. Humboldt, in his Personal Narrative^ says: 
«< It is to be doubted whether there is another plant in 
the world, which, on so small a space of ground, pro- 
duces such a mass of noutishing substance. In eight 



yGoogk 



196 YSOBTABLB rOOI>«-^FRI7IT8. 

or nine months after the sucker is phuited, the banana 
begins to show its flowery stem^ and the fruit may be 
gathered in the tenth or eleventh month. When the 
stalk is cut down, one among the many dioots is always 
found, which is about two-thirds as high as the parent 
plant, and will bear fruit three months later. Thus a 
banana ground is kept up without any farther trouble 
than that of cutting down the stem of which the fruit 
has ripened, and stirring the ground a little, once or 
twice a year, about the roots. In one year, a space of a 
hundred square inches, containing thirty or forty banana 
plants, gives upwards of 2,000 kilogrammes, or 4,000 
pounds weight of nourishing substance. What a dif- 
ference between this produce and the grain that is 
yielded by the most fertile parts of Europe! Calculations 
prove that the amount of nourishing substance obtained 
from a banana ground, is as 133 to 1, when compared 
with the growth of wheat on the same space, and as 41 
to 1 of potatoes.'' 

In America and the West Indies, numerous prepara- 
tions are made of this fruit, both before and after its 
maturity. When fully ripe, it is exposed to the sun, and 
preserved like figs: the skin becomes black, and exhales 
a peculiar odour like that of smoked ham. This dry 
banana, (Platana possada,) which is an object of com- 
merce in the province of M echoacan^ has an agreeable 
taste, and is a very wholesome article of food. Meal or 
flour is obtained from it by being cut into slices, dried 
in the sun, and pounded. Humboldt says, that he has 
often seen the natives, after a day of great fatigue, make 
their dinner on a very small quantity of manioc, (cas- 
sava,) and three bananas of the larger kind. << Grenerally 
speaking,'' he adds, « in hot countries, the people are 
partial xd saccharine food^ which they consider not only 



yGoogk 



. caooA-HiJT« 197 

palatable, bat highly iiburishiclg. The muIeteeiSy on the 
coast of Caraccas, who conveyed our . baggage, fire<» 
quently preferred raw sugar for their dinner to fresh 
meaf 

In the West Indies, the " Plantain Walk" is a neees* 
sarjr part of every estate, for the supply of bananas to 
the negroes, particularly the younger ones. But for 
plantains, says Dr. Wright, Jamaica would be scarcely 
habitable, as no species of provision could supply their 
place. Even flour, or bread itself, would be less agreeable 
and less able to support the laborious negro, so as t6 
enable him to do his business, or to keep in health. But 
it is in Mexico, more particularly, that banaua forms a 
principal part of the food of the people; and the apathy 
or indolence of the natives of the iierras calientesy or 
hot regions, has been ascribed, and probably with good 
reason, to the facility with which this fruit supplies them 
with subsistence. 

Cocoa Nut, ( Cocos Nuci/era,) The tree which bears 
this fruit belongs to the palm tribe, and is deservedly 
valued as one of the greatest of the many blessings 
showered down, by a bountiful Providence, upon the 
inhabitants of a tropical climate. It is a common say<- 
ing, that the cocoa-nut tree has ninety-nine us^, and 
that the hundredth cannot be discovered: but the Hin^ 
doos have gone far beyond this, in their celebrating 
three hundred an^ sixty-five uses which they derive 
from it. This pahn is from sixty to a hundred feet in 
height, and one to two feet in diameter; at the top it is 
crowned with a magnificent tuft of leaves, eadi about 
fourteen feet in length, and resembling an enormous 
feather or plume, which waves over the spreading wood 
or the hanable shrubbery. Unlike the bread-fruit, plan- 
tain and almost every tree affording valuaUe fruit which 

17* 



yGoogk 



198 VEOETABLB FOai>— FKUITS. 

requife a fertile^ soil to bring tbem to perfection, the 
cocoa-nut, though it will grow in rich valleys, and beside 
the streams that flow through them, yet flourishes equally 
on the barren sea-beach and fragments of coral and sand, 
or lagoon islands, where its roots are washed by every 
tide, and on the arid sides of sunburnt mountains, where 
the soil is shallow, and where no stream is seen to flow. 

It is a very prolific tree; flowers are put forth every 
four or five weeks, and thus flowers and fruit are gene- 
rally to be seen at the same time;-— and in every stage, 
from its first formation after the fall of the blossom, to 
the. hard, dry apd ripe nut, that has almost begun to 
germinate, the fruit may be seen at the same time on the 
same tree; and, in one way or other, its pulp, milk, 
kernel, husk or oil, are all rendered subservient to the 
wants of the people in whose countries it grows. While 
the nut is green, the whole hollow of the shell is filled 
with fluid, which is refreshing, agreeable and pleasant to 
the taste. The, solid part of the ripe kernel is extremely 
nutritious,but rather indigestible. A tree generally yields 
about one hundred nuts, in clusters near the top, of about 
a dozen each. Multiplied and various are the uses to 
which the other parts of the tree are put, — as baskets 
from its roots, cables and ropes from the fibrous covering 
of the nut, covering for houses, fences and torches from 
its leaves, pipes for aqueducts out of the hollowed trunk, 
&c. The terminal bud is accountea a delicacy for the 
table,^the leaves are the chief diet of the tame elephant 
in Ceylon. A vast quantity of oil is pressed from the 
kernel, the excellent quality and commercial value of 
which are well known. A coarse sugar, also, called 
jaggery, is prepared from the juice of the cocoa-nut tree. 

DATE.-«>The fruit of the date palm, {PAcsnix dacty- 
l^rUy) is a gift of Providence to the inhabitants of many 



yGoogk 



DATE. 199 

countries, more prized and less abused than that of the 
vine in more favoured regions. The zone of the date 
is intermediate between the temperate and the tropi- 
cal; it is one in which the cereaiia either do not grow 
at all, or very scantily, and that runs parallel to the 
mighty desert which extends, with but few interruptions, 
from the Atlantic ocean to Persia and Upper India, in a 
range of four thousand miles. This tree winds along 
the course of the Euphrates and the Tigris. On the 
north, it advances to Tekind (lat. 34° 40' N.), in the 
west, it casts its shadow over the ruins of Palmyra, and 
penetrates Palestine and Syria as far as the plains of the 
Mediterranean. It does not grow, at any rate luxuriant- 
ly, north of Smyrna. The date palm is so abundant, and 
so unlike any thing that can be considered as a tree, in 
the country between the states of Barbary and the de- 
sert, that this region is designated as the land of dates, 
{Biledulgerid.) On account of its evergreen fdliage, it 
has been considered by the Psalmist as an apt emblem 
of the flourishing and happy state of the righteous, who 
" shall flourish as a palm tree." 

This fruit is in general use in northern Africa, Syria, 
Annatolia, Arabia and Persia, both in its fresh and dried 
state; and it serves as well for nourishment as for drink. 
Milton has expressed this, when he says. 

Fruits of the^alm tree, pleasantest to thirst 
And hunger both. 

In Arabia, the harvest of dates is expected with as 
general a rejoicing as the vintage in the south of Europe. 
The crop sometimes fails, or is destroyed by locusts, and 
then a universal gloom overspreads the population. The 
people do not depend upon the new fruit alone, but 
during the ten months of the year, when no ripe dates 



yGoogk 



200 YEGETABUB YOQD — FRUITS. 

Cfan be ptoeiired^ their principal Subsistence is the date 
paste, called adjoue, which is prepared by forcibly 
pressing the fruit, when fully matured^ into large baskets, 
each coataining about 2 cwt <^ What is the price of dates 
at Mecca or Medina?" is always the first question 
asked by a Bedouin, who meets a traveller on the. road 
or in the desert. Dates dried in the sun, upon mats, are 
largely used in the east. Travellers often carry with 
theiu a little bag of dried dates, as their only or chief 
subsistence, during journeys of many Hundred mile& 
The adjoue or date paste forms, says Burkhardt, the 
daily food of all classes of people: in travelling, it is dis- 
solved in water, and thus forms a sweet and refreshing 
drink. All the refinements of Arabian cookery are ex- 
hausted in the preparation of dates, and the Arabs say, 
that a good housewife will daily supply her lord for a 
month with a dish of dates differently dressed. Bread 
and dates, with water as a drink, constitute almost the 
entire food of the dervishes. The practice in this respect, 
of these wandering Mohammedan monks, might serve 
as a salutary hint to many an expouiKler of Sacred Writ, 
to substitute water for stronger drinks, and to let vege- 
table predominate largely over animal food, in his daily 
diet. 

The cultivation of the date tree is an object of the 
highest importance in the countries of the east. In the 
interior of Barbary, in great part of Egypt, in the more 
dry districts of Syria, and in Arabia, it is almost the sole 
object of agriculture. In the valleys of the Hedjaz, 
there are more than a hundred kinds of dales, each of 
which is peculiar to a district, and has its own (alleged) 
peculiar virtues. Date trees pass from one person to 
another in the course of trade, and are sold by the single 



yGoogk 



ARAB FOKDlTESS FOR THE DATE. 201 

tree; and the price paid to a girl's father on giving her 
* in marriage oflen consists of date trees. 

A pleasant anecdote was related to Sir John Malcolm^ 
which will serve to illustrate the indispensable ciiaracter 
of this tree in the eyes of the Arabs, to whom indeed it 
seems to occupy much the same place in the vegetable 
kingdom, as the camel does in the animal; and to be in 
an equal, perhaps a superior degree, a bountiful provi- 
sion of nature for their wants, and the peculiar physical 
circumstances of the country they inhabit. The story 
runs thus: ^<Some time since an Arab woman, a native 
of Abu-sheher, went to England with the children of a 
Mr. Beauman. She remained in your country four 
years. When she returned, all gathered round her to 
gratify their curiosity about England. * What did you 
find there? Is it a fine country? Are the people rich? 
Are they happy?' She answered, /The country was 
like a garden; the people were rich, had fine clothes, 
fine houses, fine horses, fine carriages, and were said to 
be very wise and happy.' The audience were filled 
with envy of the English, and a gloom spread over them 
which showed discontent at their own condition. They 
were departing with this sentiment, when the woman 
happened to say, < England certainly wants one thing.' 
< What is*that?' said the Arabs eagerly. < There is not 
a single date tree in the whole country!' <Are you 
sure?' was the general exclamation. < Positive!' said 
the old nurse: ^ I looked for nothing else all the time I 
was there, but I looked in vain.' This information pro- 
duced an instantaneous change of feeling among the 
Arabs; it was pity, not envy, that now filled their 
breasts, and they went away wondering how men coiild 
live in a country where there were no date trees." 

There is hardly any part of the date tree which is not 



yGoogk 



£02 YEOXTABLE FOOD — FaUIT9» 

serviceable to man, eitbfer as a necessary or a laxury. 
When the fruit is completely ripened, it yields^ by strong 
pressure, a delicious syrup, which serves for preserving 
dates and other fruits, or the fruit may be made into 
jellies and tarts. Perverse ingenuity has succeeded in 
procuring by distillation from the date and also from the 
juice of the tree itself, an ardent spirit, the arrack or 
rackee of the east 

Cacao, {Theobroma Cacao.)«— *The pulp of the cacao 
is the basis of chocolate; and hence the name of ehocth 
late-nut given to the fruit of the tree. The cacao- 
tree, both in size and shape, resembles a young cherry- 
tree, but separates, near the ground, into four or five 
stems. It is found wild in the woods, in the Upper 
Orinoco, and is largely cultivated in Caraccas and 
Guayaquil, and, but to less extent, in the West Indies. 
The plantations of it are usually found in low and 
swampy places, the cacao trees being protected from 
the intense heat of the sun by larger trees, which are 
planted over them. It suffers, as we learn from Humr 
boldt, from the noxth-easterly winds; and the heavy 
showers that fall during the winter season, from De- 
cember to March, are very injurious to it The cacao 
harvest is very uncertain; and the causes of failure are 
increased by the depredations of worms, insects, birds 
and quadrupeds. This branch of agriculture has, more- 
over, the disadvantage of obliging the new planter to 
wait eight or ten years for the fruits of his labours, and 
of yielding an article of very difficult preservation; bat 
it requires a much less number of labourers than most 
others, one person being sufficient for a thousand trees, 
which, on an average, yield twelve fanegas, or more 
than eighteen bushels, annually. 

The note are contained in pods, much like a cacum* 



yGoogk 



CACAO—- 0HB8TNUT« SOS 

ber, that proceed immediately from all parts of the 
body and larger branches; each pod contains from 
tvrenty to thirty nuts, of the size of large almonds, very 
compactly ^t The nuts should be chosen full, plump^ 
and shiidng, without any mustiness, and not worm- 
eaten. They yield a great deal of oil; but in addition 
to the use made of them for food by a certain portion 
of die inhabitants, and in the shape of the excellent 
beverage cacao, they are largely employed in the manu- 
&cture of chocolate, of which they form the principal 
ingredient. The finest cacao is said to be that of Sko- 
musca. The principal exportations, however, are from 
the Caraccais and Guayaquil, particularly the former. 
M. Humboldt estimated the consumption of cacao ia 
Europe, in 1806, at23,000,000 lbs., of which six to nine 
millions were supposed to be consumed in Spain. The 
husks or shells of the nut are used largely by dietetic 
invalids, whose digestion is so apt to be disturbed by 
the oil of the nut itself. 

The following analysis of the cacao kernel will ex- 
plain why chocolate, even if there was no &t or butr 
ter added to the cacao in its preparation, disagrees 
with stomachs of considerable powers of digestion: 
Fat or oil, 53 per cent; 17 albuminous brown matter, 
containing the aroma of the bean; 11 of starch; 8 of 
gum or mudlage. The hnsks yield 12 per cent of the 
we^ht of the b^an; they contain no fat, but have lignin 
and mncilaginons extract. 

CflxsTNVT, (Castanea vesca.) ^Of the edible and 
nutritive fruits, the chestnut is entitled to a high rank. 
Chestnuts form, in some parts of Europe, a large pro- 
portion of the food of the inhabitants, with whom they 
are consequently a substitute for bread. This is par- 
ticularly the case in the Limousin (France), in Corsica, 



yGoogk 



204 VSOSTABLE FOOD^-rBTTITS. 

and in several districts of Spain and Italy. In the last 
named country, particularly in the region of the Ap- 
penines, the people make a bread (polenta) out of the 
meal of the chestnuts, either alone or mixed \rith the 
meal or flour of some of the cerealia. Chestnut-meal 
consists mainly of fecula or starch and sugar. The 
chestnut is supposed, by some, to be the acorn men- 
tioned by the ancient writers, as the earUest food of 
men in their savage state. 

In certain seasons of the year, when the bread-fruit 
is scarce, the natives of the South Sea Islands (Poly- 
nesia) supply the deficiency with the fruit of the Mape, 
or Ruta, a native chestnut (Inocarpus edulia). The 
nuts hang in clusters, covered with a thin husk; they are 
generally pulled when green, and eaten roasted. 

Fig, [Ficus Carica.) — The fig-tree, Mr. Phillips pro- 
perly observes, is evidently a native of that part of Asia 
where the garden of Eden is generally said to have 
been situated, as it is the only tree particularly named 
in those passages of the Bible which relate to the crea- 
tion and fall of man. << And they sewed fig-leaves to- 
gether, and made themselves aprons.'' It grows wild, 
in common with the vine, the peach, the almond, the 
medlar, the apricot, the cherry, the plum, the quince, 
the apple and the pear, in that prolific region of western 
Asia, between the range of highlands overlooking the 
Mediterranean on the west, and the Gulf of Persia and 
Caspian Sea to the east, and between the Black Sea to 
the north, and the deserts of Syria to the south, watered 
by the Tigris and Euphrates. 

The fig-tree is often mentioned, both in the Old and 
New Testament, in a manner to induce us to con- 
clude that its fruit formed a principal part of the food 
of the Syrian nation. In the twenty-fifth chapter of 



yGoogk 



FI08 F«Z9U> BT TVJI AKdaiTTS. 805 

the fint book of Samuel, we read, that when Abigail 
went to meet David, to appease bim for the affiront 
given by Nabal her ha^>aod, she look with her, 
amongst other provisions, a present of two hundred 
cakes of figs. 

In Sparta, the monthly contributions of each man to 
the common table, as prescribed by Lycurgus, was 
«one bushel of flour, eight measures of wiue, five 
pounds of cheese, and two poufids and a half of 
figs." The Athenians were particularly choice in their 
flgSy the exportation of which from Attica was for- 
bidden. The fig was a fruit much admired by the 
Romans, who brought it from most of the countries 
they conquered, and had so increased the varieties in 
Italy, by the time of the Christian era, that Pliny has 
furnished ns with a description of twenty-nine sort< 
that were familiar to him. He says, in praise of this 
fruit: ^Figs are restorative, and the best food that can 
be taken by those who are brought low by sickness, 
and are on the recovery." He adds, << that figs in- 
crease the strength of young people, preserve the 
elderly in better health, and make them look younger 
and with fewer wrinkles. They are so nutritive as to 
cause corpulency and strength; for this cause,'' con- 
tinues he, << professed wrestlers and champions were, m 
times past, fed with figps.'^ But it must be remembered, 
that these praises are due to the fig recently gathered, 
and not in the state in which it is brought to us 
after being dried. In the fresh state, this fruit is both 
agreeable to the palate and wholesome; when dried, as 
we receive them, figs not unfrequently disorder the 
stomach and bowels, and occasion flatulence and 
looseness. They are well adapted to obviate consti- 
pation. 
18 



yGoogk 



iOa V£«£TABLfi toon — fUXSTPS* 

Thefig^ree abounds in Palestine; it existed there, v^ 
know, before the entrance of the Iffl*aelites, for, besides 
the branch with one duster of grapes, borne betweea 
two upon a staff, and brought by the mep who were sen€ 
by Moses from Paran to spy out the land of Canaan^ 
there were <<figs and pomegranates." Josephqs tells 
us, that they have figs for ten months in the year; and 
it is certain, that tw^ or three crops are gathered an- 
nually. In southern Italy, they are of a fine flavour, as 
travellers at this time to Rome can testify. In Spain 
and Portugal, this fruit is also extensively cultivated, 
and particularly in the province of the Algarves. They 
are thrown in heaps^ after being gathered, in a building 
prepared for the purpose, where a syrup flows from 
them which is used in making brandy. They are then 
spread to dry in the sun, iu an op^n situation, where 
they are left for a few days, in proportion to the heat 
of the weather; after which they are packed in small 
baskets, made of the leaves of the fan-palm, and ex-^ 
ported. In the south of France, they are prepared by 
dipping them in scalding-hot lye, made of the ashes of 
the fig-tree, and are then dried in the sun. But by 
far the largest quantity of figs is exported from 
Smyrna, where they are brought from the interior. Of 
20,406 cwt. of figs imported into England, in 1830, no 
less than 18,801 cwt. came from Turkey. The quan- 
tity brought into the United States, in 1840, was valued 
at 102,000 dollars. 

Figs, with proper care, might be abundantly raised 
in various parts of the United States, as they, to a 
limited extent, are in some. The fig-tree was first 
planted iu England about the middle of the sixteenth 
century (1548): it grows well in the southern counties, 
and produces good fruit. << There is an orchard of figt 



yGoogk 



QAPIIFICATION. flOJ 

trees at Tarring, near Worthing, in Sussex, where the 
fruit graws on ^andard trees, and ripens as well as in 
any part of Spain. These trees are so regularly pro* 
ductive as to form the priocipai support of a large 
family. Ahhough the orchard does not exceed three* 
quarters of an acre, there are upwards of one hundred 
trees, that are about the size of large apple-trees, the 
branches extending near twenty feet each way from 
the trunk.'' Mr. Loud, the proprietor of this little fig 
orchard, informed Mr. Phillips, that he gathers about 
100 dossen per day during the seaaon, and that he ave* 
rages the trees to produce him about 20 dozen each: 
the fruit ripens in August, September and October, a 
part of the year when the neighbouring watering* 
places are frequented with fashionable company, that 
insures a ready sale for this agreeable fruit. The 
second crop has occasionally ripened; the fruit, al* 
though much smaller^ is exceedingly sweet. Two of 
ttie trees are (1821) about seventy-five years old. 

To render the fig more certain of ripening, the pro* 
cess of caprification has beea employed; the theory of 
which it is unnecessary to explain here. It must suffice 
to say, that what we commonly regard as the fruit of 
the fig is no fruit at all, any more than the sub* 
stance which is eaten of the common artichoke. To 
the fig, which is originally a fleshy receptacle con* 
taining many, and often only barren flowers, a little 
insect resembling a gnat, a species of CynipSy brings 
from the wild fig,-*-which it has visited, and from 
which it comes loaded, a farina necessary to fertiliza- 
tion. Others, as Mr. Link, maintain that the puncture 
of the young fig, caused by the insect, gives a fresh 
stimulus and a new movement to the sap or juices of 
the fruit, thereby not only preventing the fall of the 



yGoogk 



808 TSOKTABLS VOOD*-FmUIT8. 

fruit) but rendering it sweeter and better flaTOined| 
and it is certain that many of our common fmits, when 
pierced by insects, acquire the sweetest flavour.* 

Olive, {Oliva JBurcpsM.) — The fruit of the olive- 
tree has little to recommend it as an article of food; 
and as a condiment, it does not now properly come be- 
fore us; but by the oil which is expressed from them, 
olives assume importance as an article of national regi- 
men. The olive-tree is cultivated with most success in 
the south of France and in Spain and Italy. The olive 
is indigenous to Syria, Greece, and Africa, and in the 
lower slopes of Mount Atlas. 01ive*oil is much used 
by the people, particularly the rural population and la* 
bourers in cities, in southern Europe, as an article of 
food, commonly added to lettuce or some other salad, 
and eaten with bread. Its nutritive properties are ad- 
mitted. To northern countries, it is lai^dy exported, 
both as a condiment with fish and meats, and as an 
article used in manufactures. Olive-oil is the chief ex- 
port from the kingdom of Naples. 

The veneration of the Athenians for the olive, as the 
tree of Minerva, is known to most readers; and the 
estimation in which they held the oil, as well as its 
abundance, by which they supplied their own wants 
and sent it abroad in exchange for other commodities, 
are also familiar facts to the classical student. Among 
both Greeks and Romans, inunction with oil was a 
constant accompaniment of the bath. 

Olive-oil is produced in great quantity, and of good 
quality, in the province of Suse, empire of Morocco. 

* Murray's Encyclopaedia of Geography, Vol. I. p. 565: Amer. 
Edit. — a work which, compared with its precorsors, merits the 
strongest commendation. 



yGoogk 



OLIVE-OIL — PALM-OIL. 209 

In 1832^ 5000 tuns of olive-oil were imported into 
Great Britain; the amount iii 1830 had been as high as 
8524 tuns, — the tun being 4 hogsheads, or 252 wine 
gallons. The exportation into the United States, in 
1840, was estimated at 96,000 dollars. 

Palm-oil is obtained, by expression, from the fruit 
of the Elais Guineensis^ a species of palm. It has a 
sweetish taste, and an agreeable odour, somewhat simi- 
lar to that of orris-root Palm-oil is used by the na- 
tives of Guinea and of Central Africa as a butter, with 
rice, yams, &c Its ordinary use in England, is in the 
manufacture of yellow soap. 

There is another palm-oil^ analogous to the pre- 
ceding in its properties, which is procured from the fruit 
of the Cocos butyraceuj a native of South America* 

Walnut-oil. — The oil expressed from the walnut 
{Juglans regid) is procured in some countries, as in 
Savoy and Piedmont, in sufficient abundance to be used 
in the place of olive-oil. 



18* 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER IX. 

SUOAB— ORAPB8. 

Sugar— Sugar-^ane, its extension westward-^Mannfkcture of svgar 
— Raw and refined sugar— Sugar from beet-root— from the sagu- 
maple— Gtuantity of sugar in the markets of the world— General 
use of sugar— Its alimentary value — Honey — Its qualities— Repu- 
tation in ancient times— Biblical references to it— Grapes— ExteBt 
of cultivation of the vine-r-France chief vine-growing eoantry-*- 
Gtuantity of wine made in France and consumed by the people- 
Condition of the people in the vine districts— Use of grapes as 
aliment and for refreshment — Abundance and size of grapes in Pa- 
lestine and Upper India— Qrapes in England and the United States. 

Before I proceed any farther with a description of 
fruits, I shall speak of a substance which enters largely^ 
into their composition, and which is therefore so closely 
related to them — I mean sugar. 

Sugar {Saccharum Officinarum.) — The cane, from 
the juice of which sugar is procured, belongs to the 
great natural family of grasses that contain the cerealia. 
But this substance, as we have already seen, is found 
in most vegetable matters which contribute to the 
food of man. It is the elenlent by which both panarjr 
and vinous fermentation is brought about, and it plays 
an important part in nearly all chemical changes, in or- 
ganic bodies from tfie vegetable kingdom. 

The sugar-cane must be regarded as a native of China, 
since it has been pretty accurately shown that its culti- 



yGoogk 



M ANTTF ACT1TBB OV 8TTO AB. 811 

Tatioh was proseciited in that emptife for two tboimiiid 
years before sugar was known in Eorope, and for a 
▼ery long period before other eastern nations becafne 
acquainted with its use. A knowledge of the origin of 
sugar-cane was correctly revealed in the middle of the 
thirteenth century, by the celebrated traveller Marco 
Paolo, though it was partially known much eariier. 
The plant was soon conveyed to Arabia, Nubia, Egypt 
and Ethiopia, where it became extensively cultivate 
Early in the fifteenth century the sugar-cane first ap- 
peared in Europe. Sicily took the lead in its cultivation; 
thence it passed to Spain, Madeira, and the Canary 
Islands; and shortly after the discovery of the New 
World by Columbus, this plant was conveyed to St 
Domingo (Hayti) and Brazil, from which latter country 
it gradually spread through the islands of the West In^ 
dies, and thence at a later period to the southern part of 
the United States, and particularly Louisiana. 

ManvfactuTt. — Sugar is manu&ctured in the follow- 
ing manner: — The canes, when ripe, are cut close to the 
ground, stripped of leaves, and carried in bundles to the 
mill-house, where they are then subjected to pressure 
between iron rollers, placed either vertically or horizon- 
tally. The cafie^uice thus procured is an opaque liquid, 
of an olive-green colour, saccharine taste, and balsamic 
odour. Its specific gravity is somewhat greater than, 
that of water. It consists of unzieTf sugar y gum^ green 
/eeula, extractive, gluten, acetic and malic acids, ace- 
tates qf lime and potash, super-malate and su^hate 
ofUmcy and Ugnin* 

From the mill, the juice is conveyed to a copper caul- 
dron, called the clarifier, where it is mixed with lime, 
and heated. The clear liquor is then drawn off and 
put into a copper boiler, where it is evaporated and 



yGoogk 



212 SUGAR. 

Skimmed. It is then conveyed through a series of 
boilers, the. last of which is called the teache. When it 
has acquired a proper tenacity and gtanular aspect, it is 
passed into a wooden cooler^ where it is allowed to 
crystallize or grain. The concrete sugar is then placed 
in casks (usually sugar hogsheads) with holes in the 
bottom, each of which is partially closed by the stalk of 
a plantain leaf. Here the sugar is allowed to drain for 
three or four weeks. It is then packed in hogsheads, 
and is ready for sale and exportation, under the name 
of Muscovado or raw sugar. The uncrystallized portion 
is termed molasses. In Jamaica a mixture of water and 
molasses, with the skimmings of the clarifier and evapo- 
rating coppers, is fermented, and a vinous liquid thereby 
obtained, which, by distillation and rectification, yields 
rumy spiritus sacchari, (Pereira, Mat Med. p. 581-2.) 

Raw sugar contains several impurities, such as lime, 
tannic acid, glutinous and gummy matter, and free acid, 
from which it is freed by refining. For this purpose it 
is dissolved, heated with buUock^s blood, (called spicej) 
or with hydrate of alumina, (termed finings,) percolates 
slowly through coarse-grained animal charcoal, thea 
boiled under diminished atmospheric pressure; the syrup 
is drawn off and transferred to conical moulds of earthen- 
ware or iron, which are stopped up, and after a time 
carried to the curing floor, and placed m pots in order 
to allow the green syrups to drain off. The loaves are 
then either clayed or sugared: that is, either clay and 
water, or a saturated solution of pure sugar is poured 
in the base of the leaf, so as to detach colouring matter 
and other impurities. The loaves are afterwards dried 
in a stove and put in blue paper for sale. 

The following may be regarded, Mr. Pereira thitiks, 



yGoogk 



BEBT-JIOOT SUGAR. f 19 

as an approximatioD to the prodirae of 118 lbs. or 1 eirt 
of raw sugar by the above process: ^- 

Refioed sugar, - - 79 lbs. 

Bastardy ... 17 

Treacle, - - . 16 (Id lbs. solid matter) 

Water, ... 4 

Raw sugar, - - 118 

The green syrups abore mentioned, which wem 
drained off from the moulds, are made into an inferior 
kind of refined sugar, {btoum lumps.) 

Common sugar, by the slow evaporation of its aqne« 
ous solution, is crystallized, and then acquires the name 
of white sugar candy. In this state, sugar is used 
for domestic purposes in Canton, and probably in other 
parts of China. Sugar, altered by heat and flayoured, 
constitutes several preparations of the confectioner, as 
barley sugar, {saccharum hordeatum^ &c. If Jhe heat- 
ing be carried still farther, sugar becomes brown, evolves 
a remarkable odour^ loses its sweet faste, and acquires 
bitterness; it is then called burnt sugar or cOrameL 

Sugar from beetroot is manufactured to a great extent 
in France. The first trials made under the direction of 
the National Institute in 1800, were not successful; but, 
in 1810, at the instigation of Napoleon^ who had ex- 
cluded West India produce from France, M. Deyeur 
was more fortunate. An imperial manufactory of sugar 
was forthwith established at Rambouillet; imperial 
schools were instituted for instmcting pupils in the pro*» 
cess; premiums were given for the best samples of sugar, 
and thus, by 1812, the manufacture of beet^root sugar 
might be oonsidered prosperously set on foot (Lib. 



yGoogk 



214 BXJOAV. 

Entdrt Know.) I remember seeing M. Thenard ex. 
hibit to his class specimens of beet>root sugar and of 
cane sugar, in lump and in solution, and hearing him 
declare that neither to the eye nor taste was there any 
perceptible difference between the two. He added that 
Macshal M armbnt, among others, was largely and pro- 
fitably engaged in the culture of the beet and its manu- 
facture into sugar. This was in 1820. The consumption 
of sugar in France is estimated to amount, at present, to 
120,000 tons, and of this amount no fewer than 80,000 
tons are said to have been supplied in 1838 by the beet- 
root plantations. But the production of beet-root sugar 
is not confined to France; on the contrary, it is rapidly 
extendit^ to Belgium, Germany, Prussia, and even 



Sugar from the sap of a variety of Maple, is made 
in large quantities in the United States, through a wide 
geographical range, extending from Caniada to Tennes- 
see. In some districts the inhaibitants are entirely sup- 
plied from this source. In the latter part of the winter 
and beginning of the spring, the maple is tapped for the 
preparation of sugar. In a letter just received from a 
relative in ^Tennessee, dated January 31st, he says, 
«<We are making sugar now from the maple tree." 
The quantity of juice afforded, varies with the tree and 
the season; from two to three gallons being about the 
daily average yield of a single tree; but some trees 
have yielded more than twenty gallons in a day, and 
others not more than a pint. The process for boiling 
the juice does not dlflFer materially from what is fol- 
lowed with the cane juice in the West Indies. It is 
necessary that it should be boiled as soon after it is 
drawn from thd tree as possible; for if it is allowed to 
stand twenty^four hours, it is apt to undergo the vinous 



yGoogk 



SUOAB IN THE MARKST6 OF THE WORLD. fbl$ 

and acetous fenneotations, by which its saccharine 
quality is destroyed. Though inferior both in grain 
and strength to that which is prodnced from the cane, 
maple sugar granulates better than that of the beet root, 
or any other vegetable, the cane excepted. 

The following table, taken from Ure's Dictionary of 
Arts and Sciences, will ^ive the reader an idea of the 
immense amount of sugar manufactured for the pur«> 
poses of trade. It is headed, Quantity of Sugar brought 
into the Markets of the World in the year 1838. 

Ton$, 

British West Indies, 160,000 

Maoiitias, 35,000 and British East Indies, 90,000, • 55,000 

Java, ...•--...• 36,000 

Manilla and Stam, 30,000 

Dutch West Indies, 35,000 

St. Thomas and St. Croix, (Danish), ... 7,000 

Martinique and Gaadaloupe, (French), ... 60,000 

Boarbon, -•- 90,000 

Cuba, ..- 100,000 

BrMil, ..^.--.. 96,000 

From Beet-root, in France and Belgium, * •* 65,000 

United States, 65,000 

738,000 

If we add the quanity of maple sugar made in the 
United States, which is almost entirely for consumption 
on the spot, to that which is in the market, the amount 
will be much greater than the above estimate; or 127,300 
tons (2240 lbs. the ton), without counting what Een« 
tacky and North Carolina may have produced. Of this 
amount, Louisiana made 113,500 tons cane sugar. Of 
the maple sugar manufacturing states, Vermont and New 
Hampshire made upwards of 5,300,000, New York up* 
wards of 10,000,000, and Ohio nearly 7,000,000 lbs* 



yGoogk 



fl6 nxGUu 

The preceding table and atatemeols wUl oonvey to 
the mind of the reader a clearer conTicttoa of the ge* 
neral and great consumption of sugar througbottt the 
world, than the most emphatic declarations to this effect 
Sugar is now, we can readily see, reckoned a necessary 
of life, of almost imiversal use. An English writer 
holds the following language: << The scattered tribes 6f 
North American Indians spend the months of spring in 
their rude encampments, manufacturing sugar out of 
the juice of the maple; the fiye-and-twenty millions of 
the United Kingdom, employ, throughout the year, two 
hundred thousand tons of shipping to export five huu* 
dred millions pounds of sugar from their colonies. 
This enormoua supply affords upon an average, twenty 
pounds of sugar to each individual of our twenty-five 
millions of population. Through the natural opera- 
tion of our commercial power, this important article of 
comfort is placed within the reach of the humblest in 
the land, although the . revenue received by Ihe state 
bom the consumers amounts to 5,000,000 poimds ster- 
ling annually.'^ {LUk Enter, Know.) 

Sugar is alimentary in conjunction with any other of 
the proximate nutritive principles of plants; and taken 
as it is with other articles of food, it may be regarded as 
increasing their nutrimentai value. If we refer to its 
effects on man where and when it is eaten in the 
greatest quantity, we cannot but entertain a high notion 
of its properties in this way. During the sugar season 
in the West India Islands, every negro, says Wright, 
{JUsd. Plants qf Jamaica^) on the plantations, and 
etery animal, even the dogs, grow fat The negro 
ebildren have a certain allowance of sugar-cane at this 
■easoB, which they>suck with avidity, and with the 
same good effect as is noticed on their parents. A re- 



yGoogk 



KUTRITIVE FROFB&TIES OF SUGAR. 217 

ference to the analysis of the juce of the sugar-cane, 
which I purposely introduced for illustrating the present 
topic, will explain why this, composite as it is in its na- 
ture, should prove eminently nourishing, although the 
purified sugar alone could not be relied on for the pur- 
pose. We can, therefore, admit, to the full extent, the 
facts, as they are narrated by so many persons in the 
West Indies, of the nutritive properties of the juice of 
the cane; without denying the accuracy of the conclusions 
of Magendie, and Tiedemann and Gmelin, that animals 
fed on sugar alone, soon began to manifest feebleness, 
and, after a time, positive disease. The injurious effects 
ascribed to sugar, are proved to be imaginary, by the 
fact, that individuals have consumed large quantities of 
it, for a long series of years, without suffering any ill 
consequences. The fondness of children for sugar is 
cited as instinctive, since nature, by placing it in milk, 
evidently intended it to form part of their nourish- 
ment during the first period of their existence. We 
must, therefore, regard the notion that it injures the 
teeth, as a device of overthrifty mothers to economize 
sugar. As a proof of this error. Dr. Wright mentions the 
familiar fact, that no people on the earth have finer 
teeth than the negroes in Jamaica. Sugar has acquired 
a bad name among dyspeptics, mainly on account of 
the articles into the composition of which it enters, and 
which, when eaten, derange digestion; such are cakes, 
sweetmeats, and confectionary. There are, undoubt- 
edly, cases of disordered stomach, in which sugar, in 
any form, excites flatulency and heartburn, by the acid 
to which its fermentation had given rise. In certain 
morbid conditions of the renal organs, sugar is inad- 
missible. Its utility as a mild vermifuge is admitted. 
Sugar is an excellent preservative of fruits and other 
19 



yGoogk 



ireg«taUe substances, whidh, when ed;ten wirii bread, 
dn an empty stomach, are nourishing and whdesome. 
It is only in certain dyspeptics that the mucilage and 
pulpy matter in the original fruit disagrees. 

HoNBT^-^As akin to sugar, in its eomposilion, taste 
and effects generally as alimem> — honey merits a patth 
ing notice here. This substance, though of vegetable 
origin, being secreted by the nectariferous glands of 
flowers, is gathered by the bee, and is partially modi- 
fied by detention in the honey^agy crop or sucking 
^i&nicbch of this animal. 

Honey vwies in its taste and odour, according to the 
age of the bees, and the flowers on whidi tbey have 
fed. Clarified honey is prepared by melting honey in 
a water bath and removing the scum. Honey may be 
regarded as a concentrated solution of sugesr^ mixed 
with 6dorouSy colourings gummy and waacy matters. 
The saccharine matter is of two kinds: one crystalliza- 
ble, and analogous to the sugar Of grapes; the other nn- 
eryistallizable, and similar to the uncrystailizable brown 
syi'dp of the sugarcane. Mannite has also been fonfid, 
which diflfers from sugar in not fermenting with water 
and yeast. ^Pereira, Op. dt.) 

The adulteration of honey with flour, is defected by 
mixing it with tepid water: the honey is dissolved, 
while the flour remains unaltered. A test is oflfered in 
iodine, which produces a blue colour if there be any 
flour present. 

Honey was 6ne of the first articles of human nourisli- 
ment; and as such enters into the fabuk>us attd tradi* 
tional history of the Oreeks, who imagined their first 
gods to live on milk and honey (ambrosia). The honey 
of Moimt HjrmetCQs, in Attioa> and of Mount Hybla,in 
Sidly, BO renowned in antient times, is stili excellent 



yGoogk 



The Pythago/eeoay iot inulation of their ma8ier» almost 
lived QQ bread aond ho0ey. Pliny rebttee that Polli«, 
who reached his hundred aad fifth year, made great 
use of it, and that the Emperor Augustus having asked 
bim by what means he had preserved his healthy re- 
ceived for reply^ <^ I have made use of oil externally 
and honey internally." 

Hoi^ey is frequently mentioned in the Bible, both as 
pleasant in itself and indieating abundance and fertility 
in a country; thus Canaan la described as a << land flow- 
ing with milk and honey/' a land of olive oil and honey. 
John the Baptist fed upon wild honey, which was found 
to be in the rocks Up and down the country, or in hoL- 
low tre^. Children were fed with milk, cream and 
honey. Mentioa is made not only of bee-honey, but, 
also, of grape-honey (mtist boiled to a syrup, and 
still used in Palestine), and trect-honey, which is found 
upon the leaves of particular trees and shrubs, having 
beeti thrown out by certain insects. As it was the 
sweetest and moat delicious thing which was theu 
known, before the knowledge and use of sugar, tb^re* 
fore, things that are sweet, pleasant and agreeable, are 
in scripture compared to honey. The greater cheapt^ 
ness and abundance of sugar, and its greater uniformity 
of taste and other properties, have gradually caused it 
to take the place of honey in popular favour. Honey 
is, however, still esteemed as a wholesome article of 
diet to the phlegmatic, and those with torpid bowels; 
but it is less adapted to the bilious and the young, and 
is not so proper in summer as in winter. Its tendency 
to cause pain in the digestive canal is such, that it has 
been replaced by syrups in the preparation of most 
medicinal compounds in which it was formerly pre- 
ecribed. When collected firom poisonous plants, honey 



yGoogk 



220 TRXrVTB. 

partakes somewhat of their properties, and may in this 
way prove extremely deleterious to those who eat of it^ 
as was the case with the army of Xenophon, in the cele- 
brated retreat of the « Ten Thousand.' 

Honey, by being subjected to fermentation, is con- 
verted into mead and metheglin—- drinks once much 
more in vogue than at present. 

Grapes {Fitis Vinifera). The vine flourishes in 
regions intermediate between those of the date, the 
pomegranate and the orange trees to the south, and 
the apple and the plum trees to the north; the peach 
has nearly the same range with the vine, but inclining 
rather to the southern limits of the latter. The vine is 
said to be a native of Persia; by the PhoBnicians its cul- 
ture was extended to Egypt, Greece and Sicily; thence 
to Italy and the south of France. 

The vine is valuable for its rich and luscious fruit, 
which both quenches thirst and allays hunger; and 
while to a certain extent nutritive it is also medicinaL 
A diet of bread and grapes is occasionally recommended 
to invalids with consumption, and although it will not 
cure this formidable disease, yet it contributes more than 
most dietetic courses to an alleviation of the more trou- 
blesome symptoms, and in diseases simulating consump- 
tion would seem to be decidedly curative. The cultiva- 
tion of the vine is relatively inconsiderable with a view- 
to the use of grapes, either in their fresh or dried state; 
and hence as forming a portion of the food of man, they 
merit small notice. In a commercial point of view the 
case is far otherwise; the wine procured from the fer- 
mented juice of the grape being an article which counts 
largely in the exports of some countries, particularly 
France, and Spain and Portugal with their dependencies 
the Canaries and Madeira; and, in less degree, Ger- 



yGoogk 



GEOGRAPHICAL |lA2Va£ OF THE VINE. 221 

many, Hungary, Italy aod some of the Greek Islands. 
TtMsre is also some wine made in the southern part of 
Russia, particularly in the Crimea. 

As a question of dietetics, the use of the fermented 
juice of the grape must be inquired into under two dif- 
ferent circumstances^ first, in reference to the inhabitants 
of the countries and districts where wines are made^ 
and, secondly, to the people of the countries to which 
they are sent as articles of commerce. 

The use and enjoyment of wines in the countries in 
which they are made, and in which alone they can with 
any propriety be regarded as the fermented juice of the 
grape without mixture and adulteration, are limited to a 
zone or belt of varying breadth, and with a mean tem- 
perature of 50^ to 60^ F. In Europe this is about twenty 
degrees of latitude, and in America, still less, or as some 
tell us, one half; being in the former continent between 
the dOth and 40th degree of north latitude, and in tb^ 
lattfsr extending from 25^ to 40^ north. In the south- 
^U hemisphere, the Cape of Good Hope just falls within 
the line of latitude adapted to the grape. But in speak- 
ing of climate as measured by degrees of latitude, we 
merely give an approximation to the fact as regards its 
^plication to the geography of plants or of animals, 
Elevations above the ocean and exposure to particular 
winds modify climate very much; and hence we ara 
little surprised to learn that, in Chili, the vine has been 
<;ultivated with success, and on the table land of Mexico 
similar trials have resulted favourably. Shiraz, in 
Persia, in but 33^ north, has been represented to be the 
southern limit for the cultivation of the vine in Asia; 
and yet in the province of Decean, in Upper India^ be- 
tween the 17th and 19th degrees of latitude, twenty- 
three north, six species of grapes of fine flavour and in 

19* 



yGoogk 



222 FRUITS, 

abundance are gathered. This region is at an elevation 
above the ocean, varying from 1500 to 1800 feet; and 
the mean tenoperature of the year 77® to 78° F. 

France is the chief vine-growing country; it has been 
called the vineyard of the earth. A twenty-sixth part 
of France is devoted to the cultivation of the vine; equal 
to a tract of country nearly 200 miles long and 33 broad; 
and containing upwards of five millions of acres. There 
are but a few of the 86 departments into which France 
is divided, that do not produce grape for the manufac- 
ture of wine; but in the southern division of the kingdom, 
the cultivation of the vine is carried much farther than 
in the northern. Thus, in the thirty-two departments 
which Baron Dupin regards as belonging to the north, 
and having a superficies of 18,692,191 hectares, there 
are 342,883 hectares taken up with vineyards; where- 
as, in southern France, which includes fifty-four depart- 
ments, and has a superficies of 34,841,235 hectares, there 
are 1,271,056 hectares taken up with vineyards. The 
proportion of wirie manufactured does not however cor- 
respond with the relative of land in cultivation; being 
as 11 to 24. Various estimates have been made of the 
quantity of wine manufactured in all France, and of the 
proportion consumed at home, and of that exported to 
foreign countries. M. Chaptal (formerly minister of the 
Interior) supposed, in 1819, the vineyards to occupy 
3,991,447 acres, (we omit the number in hectares,) and 
to produce 35,358,890 hectolitres,* or 778,237,384 gal- 
lons. In 1824, the Department of Indirect Taxes state 
the produce of wines to be 35,000,000 hectolitres, and 
the extent of the vineyards to be 4,274,398 acres. Ba- 
ron Dupin repeats (1827) the estimate of Chaptal, but if 
he were to admit the same proportionate increase in the' 

* The hectolitre is 26.42 English wine gallons. 



yGoogk 



PRODUCTS OF FRfiNCH VINSTARDS. SS3 

cultivation of the yine as be does of the cerealia la 
France during the period which elapsed between this 
estimate and the time he wrote, viz. a tenth, it would 
make the product of 4he vineyards rismg 856,000,000 
gallons. M. Cavoleau, (1827) who obtained the prize 
from the French Institute for his (Enologie Franfoisey 
gives the produce of the vines of France as 813,165,195 
gallons. The minister of commerce stated in 1828, that 
he believed the produce of France to be 40,000,000 hec- 
tolitres or above 886,000,000 gallons. The last returns 
arft those published in 1831, by the Statistical Society, 
exhibiting a produce of nearly 45,000,000 hectolitres, or 
about 1,000,000,000 gallons.* This estimate it is sup- 
posed will apply, with some slight addition, to 1833. 
I shall adopt, as the medium produce of the French 
vineyards, and take as a basis for subsequent calcula- 
tions, the estimate made by a committee, instituted to 
inquire into the duties on drinks in France. The whole 
produce is stated to be 42,000,000 hectolitres, or 924,- 
020,000 gallons, and to be thus disposed of. 

Galloni. 
Consamed by the proprietors, not being subject to 

duty, - - - 108,000,000 

Duty recovered on consumption, . - - - 308,000,000 
Fraudulent consumption, ...... 105,466,000 

Entire home consumption, ----- 611,466,000 

Employed in the manufacture of brandy, - - 141,680,000 

Loss and waste among the growers, ... 91,344,000 

Loss in conveyance and in the hands of dealers, - 44,000,000 

Exported, 24,530,000 

For the manufacture of vinegar^ .... 11,000,000 

924,020,000 

' * Bowrlng's Second Report on the Connnercitl Relations h9* 
tween France and England.— Silk and Wine, p. 95. 



yGoogk 



824 fAUiTf. 

If ihom statetneDta, says Dr. BawrtDg, are correoti 
and tbay are official atatemetits, it would appear that 
the ceuaomptioa in Fraoce, taking the population at 
33y000>DQQ, and estimating the amount consume (vis; 
611,4469000 gallons), that the annual average oca* 
gumption of wine is about 18 gallons per annom per 
individual A French medical Journal, (1829,) the X\ik 
of whi(dx I did not note at the time, givps 700,000,000 
gallons of wine as the amount of home consumpuoa 
in France. The quantity of cider and beer drunk by 
the French people will be aoticed hereafter. • 

The disproportionate consumption of the towns to tbo 
open country in France is very remarkable: 7,500,000 
inhabitants of towns consuqie 8,670,293 hectolitres or 
aearly 26 gallons per individual; 25,500,000 inbabitaati 
of the country consume 19^22 J07 hectoUtres^ or abovt 
16i gallons per individual:— that is, supposing all tba 
wine which enters the towns pays the duty; but as there 
is good reason to believe that one^hird,at least, escapeii 
the average consumption in the towns may be estimated 
as double that of the agricultural districts, though so 
large a proportion of that consumed in these districts is 
dnty free.^'— (^ot^rin^, 2rf Hep- p, 90.) To the towns, 
therefore, must we look for the hygienic effects of wins 
drinking and of the culture of the vine. This point of 
inquiry will be taken up when I shall speak of the 
dietetics of France and England, and more especially 
as relates to the intoxicating drinks used by the people 
of these twa countries. 

It may not be thought irrelevant, at any rate uoin* 
stmctive, if I detain the reader by a few remarks on the 
condition of the proprietors and cultivators of vineyards 
in France. They will sadly interfere with the poetry 
with which the vina-clad hiUs of France and their ioba- 



yGoogk 



LOSSES ON VINBTABDS. 22S 

bitants have been invested, and may prove the first step 
towards undeceiving some philanthropists at home re- 
specting the imputed advantages of cultivating the vine 
largely in the United States, with a view t6 the manu- 
fi9icture of wine and its consumption by the people. 
As regards the value of vineyard property, we learn 
the following particulars from Dr. Bowring:-^M. 
Gautier, the then president of the Bordeaux Chamber 
of Commerce, and since a peer of France, has said that 
an estate of the estimated value of 15,000 francs (about 
03000) per annum, in the last generation, produced ab* 
solutely nothing now. He even declared that there 
was scarcely an acre of vineyard culture south of France 
which paid the cost of cultivation. The cost of cultiva- 
tion is estimated by Mr. Rambuteau at double the value 
of the rental, while the average production of the other 
objects of agriculture is estimated at two-fifths of the 
rental. Of the situation of the vine-growing country, 
the representatives of the proprietors to the Minister of 
Finance give a melancholy picture. « The value,'* say 
they, "of our productions, is almost wholly destroyed — 
our properties perish — thousands of families are preci- 
pitated into misery, and given up to despair; already 
large districts of land, where nothing but the vine flou- 
rishes, are abandoned to theu ancient sterility.'* This 
state of things is attributed by Dr. Bo wring to the French 
system of prohibition duties on the produce of other 
countries. The vine growers of the department of the 
mouths of the Rhone, assert that, since 1821, their pro- 
duce is diminished from 646,000 hectares, of a value of 
7,000,000 francs, to 867,000 hectares; of a value of 
2,986,000 francs. The proprietors of vineyards of the 
Giroude, one of the chief wine districts in France, in 



yGoogk 



229 FAUITS. 

their petition to the Chamber of Deputies^ {182%) say 
that they are losing 12 per cent, per annum on the oost 
of cuUivatioo. Similar statements were made by tbQ 
vine growers of Touloose, Cdte d'Or, Oriental Pyrtote, 
and others. These representations apply to the prodaoi 
pf the vineyards in general Some e^tatea are a sour99 
of wealth: to their owners; bat the small proprietai9 
eonid not support themseives were they not also eo- 
gaged in farming. 

As to the small labouring proprietors, and laboiuersy 
and jobbers in the vineyards, their situation^ physically 
and mentally^ is poor indeed. Those of ChampaigM 
make the best appearance they can by severe economy: 
in bad years they borrow at usurious interest to free 
themselves, and often hasten their ruin. They are more 
sober and orderly than the manufacturing classes in 
general. The daily. labourers in the vineyards of tha 
Crironde are represented by their own countrymea ia 
their reply to Dr. Bowring's queries, to be without in- 
etruetion, to be in general ^ endowed with great pene- 
tration, and even with ingenuity, but they are ignoraoli 
auperstitious,: devoid of religion, proud, setting at 6»ir 
ftnce the educated and the rich, selfish, little fond oi 
work, yet kind and hospitable. Family ties have little 
weight among them: the sickness of one of their cattle 
distresses them muore than that of their wifb or cbUi 
AUnost all of them live without care for the Aiture, and 
die unregretled." Their amusements are <«dancing» 
public houses, and gambling.'' Btit yet their sobriety i^ 
said to be worthy of imitation. Their drink is piqueUt 
wine, a liquor made of the wastage of the wine barrel9> 
the remnant of grapes, &e.^ which are subjected to a 
kind of (erm^ntation bordering on the acetous^ Fiquetta 



yGoogk 



NORTHERN AND SOtJTfiERN FRANCE. iK27 

16 an add watery drink. In Medoc dtetnot, the amnse* 
Bients of ttie labourer ki the vinejrards are the public 
house. The domestic arrangements of these people, as 
well as of the vine-dressers, are in getieral bad, and of 
household economy, the source of household oomibrts^ 
they are utterly ignorant. A rine-dresser receives four 
barrels of small wine for himiself and family. The in* 
habitants of the wine countries in France are from their 
infancy accustomed to drink piquette, and it is the ordi- 
nary drink of the poor. 

Baron Dupin devotes the sixth book of his work^ 
{fbrtes ProductiveSy &c. Tome II, p. 489, et seg.) to a 
comparison between the North and the South of France^ 
on the score of territory, agricultural and manufacturing 
h^tistry, schools, &c., m which be shows conspicuo<uely 
the superiority, in all the fruits of industry and cultiva* 
tion of intiellect, of the departments of the north over 
those of the sou^. The chief wine districts are in the 
latter. The two divisions bear the proportion in relation 
to population as 1^ to 17, and to agrionhural labourers 
as 7 to 11, and superficies of soil las 16 to 34; the smaller 
irambers being on the side of the north*-the larger re* 
presenting the south. But yet, with all these disadvan-» 
tages, the people of northem France derive a laigev 
mean income per individual from the soil and from 
manufacturing industry, and pay more taxes than their 
countrymen to the south: their agricult^u'al products are 
to those of the latter as 5 to 6, although the proportion 
of labourers is, as just state^ 7 to 11, and of surface for 
cultivation 18 to S4. Even in Ihe produce of the vine* 
yards they procure wine in the proportion of 11 to 184, 
although the land taken up wU^ vineyards in the twio 
divisions is as 1 to 3. 

On the subjeft ofprimarykistniction, northern France 



yGoogk 



228 FauiTs. 

had only a fifth of her communes wanting in primary 
instruction, whereas one-half of the communes in the 
south were deficient in these advantages. The south 
sends one scholar where the north sends two scholars to 
a primary school Of the patents for inventions, disco«» 
veries, &c. on 1st July, taken out from 1791, to 1st July, 
1825, there were 1699 from the north and 413 from the 
south. 

In northern France, says Dupin, the inclemency of 
the climate prevents the culture of the olive, the caper, 
the orange, and the citron: it does not allow of the culti- 
vation of Indian corn and the mulberry, except in some 
of the departments bordering on the southern divi^on; 
nor of the vine being cultivated in Normandy, Picardy, 
Artois, French Flanders, and in Ardennes. Notwith- 
standing these privations, he continues, the mass of the 
people of the north, having more instruction, activity 
and industry, procure from the soil, taking equal sur- 
faces as a standard of computation, a net produce almost 
double that of the people of the south. 

In making the above comparison, after Dupin, and 
repeating the statements which preceded it, I do not 
pretend to overlook the modifying influences of climate 
and difference of race, nor to attribute the contrasted 
picture solely to the fact of the south being the country 
of vineyards, and the north, except Champaigne, being 
deficient, or having much less of its soil cultivated, in this 
way. My purpose is, to show that the cultivation of the 
vine, 60 far as relates to the manufacture of its fruit into 
wines and brandy, gives no activity, affords no general in- 
centive to the powers of man, does not quicken any germ 
•f civilization into a display of superior industry, litera- 
ture or science; but, on the contrary, that the people 
thus engaged are behind their countrymen, who live 



yGoogk 



P&OPER USX OF GBAPE JUICJB. 229 

xmder the same goveniment and institutions with them* 
selves, in all that makes a useful citizen and contributes 
to the sum of human worth and intelligence. How far 
the consumption of the produce of the vineyards when 
manufactured into wine and brandy affect public and 
individual health, and prove auxiliary or inimical to 
sotoiety and industry, will be a subject of inquiry in the 
chapter on Drinks. 

Independently of the use of grapes for the purpose of 
manufacturing out of their juice an intoxicating liquor^ 
wine, by fermentation, and a still more potent and de- 
structive one, brandy, by distillation, this fruit is eaten, 
on the spot, alone or widi bread; or at a distance, after 
packing and transportation in its still recent state, and 
also in the shape of raisins. The fresh juice, when 
mixed with water, or inspissated into a kind of extract, 
and also mixed with water, forms in both instances a 
grateful and nutritious beverage. 

But whilst we claim a vast superiority for grain over 
vine3rard agriculture, in reference both to the amount of 
food furnished to man and to the ulterior benefits arising 
jont of full nutriment and the profitable exchange with 
other countries whose soils are less fertile, we ought to 
be aware that all the land given to the vine is not so 
much abstracted from the cultivation of grain. A good 
deal of it is broken and hilly ground, with a gravelly 
or sandy soil, too light for a profitable produce of grain. 
On this point, and in elucidation likewise of the proper 
hygienic objects in the cultivation of the vine, the follow- 
ing observations made by the Rev. Dr. Duff in his journey 
through France to India by the way of Alexandria may 
be appropriately introduced: — 

^ In those countries, mantled with vineyards, one can- 
not help learning the true intent and use of Ae vine in 
20 



yGoogk 



230 FBUITS. 

the schefme of Providence. la our own land wine has 
become s.o exclusively a mere luxury, or what is worse, 
by a species of manufacture, an intoxicating beverage^ 
that many have wondered how the Bible speaks of tmnCf 
in conjunction with ^orn^ and other such staple supports 
of animal life. Now in passing through the region of 
vineyards in the east of France, ode must at once per- 
ceive, that the vine greatly flourishes on slopes and 
heights, where the soil is too poor and gravelly to main- 
tain either corn for food, or pasturage for cattle. But 
what is the providential design in rendering this soil — 
favoured by a genial atmosphere — so productive of the 
vine, if its fruit become solely either an article of luxury 
or an instrument of vice? The answer is, that Provi- 
dence had no such design. Look at the peasant and 
his meals in vine-bearing districts. Instead of ^nilk, he 
has a basin of pure unadulterated < blood of the grape/ 
In this, its native original state, it is a plain, simple, and 
wholesome liquid, which at every repast becomes to the 
husbandman what milk is to the shepherd — not a luxury, 
but a necessary— not an intoxicating, but a nutritive be- 
verage. Hence, to the vine-dressing peasant of Auxerre, 
for example, an abundant vintage, as connected with 
his own immediate sustenance, is as important as an 
overflowing dairy to the pastoral peasant of Ayrshire. 
And hence, by such a view of the subject, are the lan- 
guage and the sense of the scripture vindicated from the 
very appearance of favouring what is merely luxurious 
or positively noxious, when it so constantly magnifies a 
well replenished wine-press, in a rocky, mountainous 
country, like that of Palestine, as one of the richest 
bounties of a generous Providence.'' 

Palestine, even in modern times, yields grapes of a 
size which reminds travellers of the bunch found in the 



yGoogk 



UNFERMENTED JUICE OF THE GRAPE. 231 

valley of Eschol, that required two men to carry it, 
A German traveller (Christopher Von Neitzchutz) re- 
lates, that he has seen bunches of grapes in the moun- 
tains of India, which measured half an ell long, and 
the leaves were like palms. Rosenmiiller mentions the 
largo quantity of grapes and raisins which are daily 
sent to the markets of Jerusalem and other neighbouring 
places. Hebron alone, in the first half of the eighteenth 
century, annually sent three hundred camel loads, that 
is nearly three hundred thousand- weight of grape-juice 
or honey of raisins, into Egypt. The Damascus grapes, 
of the present time, are found to weigh upwards of 
twenty-jfour pounds the bunch. I have, in a preceding 
page, spoken of the varieties of fine grape cultivated 
for the table, in the Deccan (Upper India). 

The unfermented juice of the grape and sap of the 
palm-tree are, as we learn from Captain Charles Stuart, 
common and delightful beverages in India, Persia, Pa- 
lestine, and other adjacent countries. Must, or the ex- 
pressed and unfermented juice of the grape, wasiised by 
the Egyptians at an early date, (Gen. xi. 2.) Another 
mode of uring the juice of the grape for purposes of drink, 
was to evaporate the more watery portion, by which the 
remainder Was thickened and could be kept for a length 
of time without farther decay. When wanted for use, 
it was made, by the addition of water, not only a re- 
freshing, but a somewhat nutritive drink, as its muci- 
lage or extractive matter and sugar were still retained. 
Dr. Russell, in his history of Aleppo, thus speaks of the 
practice in modern times in that part of the world: — 
^ The inspissated juice of the grape {sapa vini), called 
here dibbs, is brought to the city in skins, and sold in 
the public markets: it has much the appearance of 
coarse honey, is of a sweet taste, and in great use 



yGoogk 



332 FmuiTs. 

among the people of all sorts.'^ This extract, as it 
may be called, of the juice pf the grape mixed with 
water, and allowed to remain in this state for a time, 
would undergo a slight acetous fermentation, rendering 
this drink analogous to the light acescent wines used by 
the people of southern Europe, or to the piquettt 
already described. 

Grapes for table use, of fine flavour and large size, 
are procured in considerable quantities in England in 
hot-houses; and, as we learn from notices in the early 
historians of that country, vineyards were numerous 
and profitable ia the southern part of the island — 
Several kinds still ripen well in the open air. Vine- 
yards are noticed in the Doomsday Book, as also by 
Bede, as early as the commencement of the eighth cen- 
tury. The isle of Ely was expressly denominated the 
bh (^ Vines f by the Normans. Few ancient monaste- 
ries were without a vineyard attached to them. Malms- 
bury mentions the county of Gloucester as excelling 
every other part of the country, in his time, in the num- 
ber and richness of its vineyards. 

The Duke of Portland made a present to the Mar- 
quis of Rockingham, in 1781, of a bunch of grapes that 
grew in his vinery, which weighed nineteen pounds 
and a half: it was nineteen inches and a half in the 
greatest diameter, four feet and a half in circumference, 
and twenty-one inches and three-quarters in length. It 
was conveyed to Wentworth House, a distance of 
twenty miles, by four labourers, who carried it sos- 
^nded on a stafi*, in pairs, by turns. The vine at 
Hampton Court Palace, near London, which all travel- 
lers who visit the palace have seen, was planted in the 
year 1769: it has a stem of thurteen inches in girth, and 
a principal branch one hundred and fourteen feet in 



yGoogk 



ENGLISH ORAPS VINES. )i3S 

lengthy wbichy in one year^ produced two thousand and 
two hundred bunches of grapes, each weighing^ on an 
average, a pound. George III. enjoyed the fruit of 
this vine half a century. Fruit was the only luxury in 
which he indulged himself, and that was cultivated in 
the ro]ral gardens to the highest perfection, and served 
at table in great abundance. Mr. Phillips (Pomarium 
Briianicum), who gives the preceding particulars, does 
not add, that the next George (IV.) preferred the 
manufactured juice of the grape, to that which was 
matured and evolved by nature on the vine. . The 
contrasted lives of the two men, both in their duration 
and manner of passing them — ^the father living to an 
advanced age, exempt in a great measure from bodily 
disease, except that one of the brain, to which he was 
predisposed by inheritance, and a model in the di8« 
charge of his conjugal and domestic duties; the son, 
debauched and profligate, heartless and selfish, and re* 
gardless of all the bonds of affection and duty — furnish 
no bad commentary on their different tastes on the 
score of regimen. 

Mr. Eden planted a vine, of the Black Hamburg sort, 
at Valentine House, Essex, in the year 1758, — which is 
the parent of the vine at Hampton Court; it has ex* 
tended itself to upwards of two hundred feet in lengthy 
and is so productive that two thousand bilnches of 
grapes ripened on it in the year 1819. Speechly de* 
scribes a vine, which was growing in the open air at 
Northallerton, in Yorkshire, in 1789, that had once 
covered a space containing one hundred and thirty* 
seven square yards; and it was judged, that, had it 
been permitted, it would have extended to three or 
four times the room. The circumference of the stem, a 
little ubove the ground, is three feet eleven inches: it is 

20* 



yGoogk 



234 VBjmn. 

9upposed to hare been planted one hundred and fifty 
yean ago. 

In Jamaica (continues Mr. Phillips) and some other 
of the West India islands, the vine produces two, and 
often ttu^e crops a year. Both Brown and Lunan ob- 
serve, that grape-vines produce most abundantly in 
Jamaica, particularly the Muscadine, which ripens 
all its berries nearly at the same time, and has clusters 
of the fruit from eight to ten pounds weight; the pulp 
of which has been found less watery and more fleshy, 
than the same fruit in the south of France, and yet the 
making of wine, even for the consumption of the island, 
has never been attempted. 

In the United States, the number of species of wild 
grapes is considerable, no fewer than seven having 
been ascertained to flourish in their confines. Good 
table grapes, as the Catawba, Isabella and Elsenburg, 
have been obtained by cultivation from the native spe- 
cies, and are now frequently to be met with. In North 
Carolina, Kentucky, District of Columbia, and at Ye- 
vay, in Indiana, vineyards have been cultivated for the 
purpose of manufacturing wine from the grapes. In 
other places, as near Philadelphia and Boston, gentle- 
men of fortune and liberal tastes, have succeeded, after 
large expenditure, in raising in hot-houses an abundant 
supply of tichly-flavoured grapes. We must hope, that 
these efibrts, on a more economical plan, will be imi- 
tated by professional gardeners and gentlemen farmers, 
so that the people will be supplied with this delightful 
fruit in abundance somewhat commensurate with that 
of peaches, apples and melons. 

Grapes gathered just before they reach maturity, and 
having been divested of any adhering moisture and 
carefully packed aWay in some light and dry sub- 



yGoogk 



FRESH ORAPSS. 235 

Stance^ such as sawdust, will keep for a length of time, 
— and in this state may be transported to great dis- 
tances. Large quantities thus gathered and packed, 
are imported into the United States from Malaga, and 
into London and other parts of England from France. 
The practice was known to the ancients; and the fruit 
in this state was, by the Romans> called uvaB ollares, 
when the grapes were put away in jars hermetically 
sealed with pitch, or in well closed vessels with dry 
straw. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER X. 



FRUITS. 



Raisins — varieties of, and whence procured— quantities imported. — 
Currants. — Pomegranate — its pleasant juice — seeds much used. — 
Sweet Orange — its juice — Orangeade— Seville orange — its rind- 
Orange flower water — value of the orange trade— Lemon, a modem 
fruit in Europe — Lemon juice, its composition and effects — Lemon- 
ade as a drink and a febrifuge.— Citric acid — its nature and uses.— 
Lime.— Citron.— Shaddock. — Melons— their abundance and excel- 
lence in Asta and Africa, southern Europe and America— varieties 
of— Cantelleupe — Caution in use of— Water-melon — its extensive 
use in U. States— its alleged bad effects — Pumpkin — Cucumber — 
large use of, and various fashions of preparing it for table. — Apple 
— its range and varieties, and where most abundant and finest — 
Mode of keeping apples— Produce of the orchards in England, U. 
States, and Prance— Flavour of the apple— with whom disagreeing 
—Pulp with flour makes good bread- Apple jellies and confections. 
—Pear— its composition and effects. — Cluince — as a preserve, mar- 
melade— Virtues of its seeds.— Peach, its excellence and abund- 
ance — is palatable and nutritious— Dried peaches — Deleterious 
properties of other parts of the peach tree. — Plum. — Prunes. — 
— Almond — its kernel the part eaten — Almond oil — the husk to 
be removed from the kernel. — Cherry — its inferior quality in the 
United States— Cherry brandy.— Currant— varieties of.— Gk>ose- 
berry.— Raspberry.— Strawberry.— Cranberry.— Tamarind. 

i?amn*.— Grapes, partially deprived of their watery 
part by drying, but still retaining their sugar and mu- 
cilage, are largely used under the name of raisins, (uvx 
passse, or, as distihguishing them from currants, uvx 
passes majores.) The fruit is prepared for this purpose 
in various ways; being in some places dried in the sun. 



yGoogk 



BAI8IMS. 237 

in others immersed in ley; but in all cases it is desirable 
that the grapes should be perfectly ripe before they are 
gathered. la order to insure more completely this re* 
suit, the leaves and vine, which partially cover the 
bunches of the fruit, are drawn to one adde, so as to 
expose it fully to the sun. The damaged berries are 
carefully removed. 

In Granada, the finest kind of raisins (viz. the JAi^ 
caiek and Biooma) are sun-dried, while the LixiaSf so 
called from the liquor in which they are immersed, are 
dipped in a mixture of water, adies and oil, and siker- 
wards sun-dried. In Provence, the ley is heated to 
boiling, and in this stiUe the grapes are immersed in it, 
and allowed to remain until the skin of the berries begins 
to be wrinkled. They are then put on hurdles and 
dried in the sun. By this treatment, the juice exudes 
and candies on the fruit Dillon states ttiat the sun-dried 
raisins have their stalks half cut through, while the bunch 
remains on the vine. The raisins of Y alentia are pre* 
pared by steeping them in boiling water to which a ley 
of vine stems has been added. Some raisins are said to 
be dried in the heat of the oven. Raisins are imported 
in casks, barrels, boxes and jars. << The varieties known 
in the market are distinguished partly from their place 
of growth, as Flakntias and Smymaa; partly from the 
variety of grape from which they are prepared, as Sul- 
tanasy Biooma and Muscatels; and partly from the 
mode of curing them, as Raisins cf the sun. Muscatels 
are the &neai—Sultanas are stoneless.'^ {Pereira, Op. 
city p. 1217-18.) Raisins contain mucilage, sugar, 
and an acid. If they be steeped in water, at a mode- 
rate temperature, for a short time, fermentation will 
ensue, and a slightly acidulous and pleasant drink may 
in this way be prepared. Carefully watched in the 



yGoogk 



1138 VKurrs. 

stages of fermentation, as in the case of the fresh juice 
of grape, a wine is procured, from which brandy may 
be distilled. In Portugal, an inferior brandy is obtained 
in this way, for the purpose of drugging Port wine, be- 
fore it is sent to the English market. 

The imports of raisins into Great Britain in 1831, were 
216,283cwt., of which 105,066 came from Spain,100,458 
from Turkey, and 7,036 from Italy. Nearly a million 
of dollars worth of this fruit were brought to the United ' 
States, in 1840, from the Mediterranean. 

Currants, or Corinthian RaisinSy ( Uvm passas mi" 
nores.) — These are obtained from a remarkably small 
variety of grape, called the Black Corinth, They were 
formerly produced at Corinth, (whence they received 
their name,) but are now grown near Patras (on the 
isthmus of Cormth), and in the Ionian isles, especially 
in Zante and Cephalonia. At Zante they are gathered 
in August, disposed in couches on the ground, to dry, 
cleaned and laid up in magazines, (called seraglios^) 
where they eventually adhere so firmly together, as to 
require digging out. They require eight, ten, or fourteen 
days for drying: for exportation they are trod into bar- 
rels. These currants form quite an article of commerce; 
the amount exported annually for four years, ending 
1832, from the Ionian islands, being somewhat less than 
nineteen millions of pounds. The island of Candia pro- 
duces, we are told, no less than seventy-two varieties. 
The Lipari islands also furnish them: they are here 
packed in barrels of about 200 pounds each, for ex* 
portation. 

The diminutive grape, which is the currant of com* 
merce, when eaten in its fresh state, is gathered before 
it is quite ripe, as then it is too sweet. Like the larger 
grape, it is deemed a useful article of food, with some 



yGoogk 



POMIORAHATS. SS9 

farinaceona substance^ in convalescence and in certain 
chronic maladies. 

FoMSORANATE, {Punico Chanatum.) Originally an 
inhabitant of the same region (northern Africa) with the 
date, the pomegranate is now found indifferent parts of 
Asia, viz., Bengal, China and Persia, and in the conn- 
tries of southern Europe bordering on the Mediterra- 
nean. It is repeatedly referred to in the Bible, (Numb, 
ziii. 23; Deut. Tiii. 8, &c.) Homer also mentions it. 
The leaves, the flowers and the fruits were employed in 
medicine by the ancients. 

The pomegranate was first brought to Rome from 
Carthage, in the time of Sylla. Pliny, who describes 
nine varieties of this fruit, says, that the territory of 
Carthage claims to itself the Punic Apple, {Malus Pu" 
nicoy) which some call pomegranate, from the flowers 
of which we get the colour to dye cloth, called punictus 
(pink or light red.) 

The pomegranate has been planted in the West India 
Islands, where the fruit grows larger and finer flavoured 
than in Europe. The juice of the fruit has a pleasant 
acidity, combined with some degree of astringency, 
which renders it peculiarly fitted to qi\ench thirst and 
allay feverish heat. The fruit cut into segments and 
immersed in water, was recommended for the same 
purpose. 

The pomegranate in most parts of Persia, says Foster, 
has a thin soft skin, and contains a large quantity of juice, 
than which nothing in hot weather, or after fatigue, can 
be more grateful. The juice mixed with sugar and 
water forms a kind of lemonade, which has a very plea- 
sant flavour. 

The pomegranate is common in Syria and Palestine, 
particularly in the gardens of Aleppo. The ripe fruit is 



yGoogk 



840 FRUITS. 

in abundance in August, and is then laid up for a winter 
stock. There are three sorts; a sour kind, a modemteiy 
sweet kind, and a very sweet kind. The juice of the 
first is used instead of verjuice, or the juice of the unripe 
grapes. The others are eaten at table, after being cut 
open, the seeds taken out, strewed with sugar, sprinkled 
with rose water, and served up on little plates. The 
seeds, according to Russell, constitute an important culi- 
nary article, being used for conserves and sjrrups. This 
fruit was much prized by the Israelitish people, as ap- 
pears not only by its description among the products of 
the land of Canaan, but also by the murmuring of the 
tribes when they came into the desert of Zin. ^Where- 
fore," said they, "have ye made us to come out of 
Egypt into this vile place? It is no place of seeds, or of 
vines, or of pomegranates.'^ 

SwBBT or Common Orange, {Citrus Jiurantium.) 
This delightful fruit, so lavishly spread over different 
parts of Asia, and particularly China, Has only been in- 
troduced into Europe since the twelfth century, when 
several varieties of it were cultivated in Italy; and 
thence taken to Provence, Spain and Portugal. Another 
and more correct view is, that it was first introduced by 
the Portuguese from the East. I speak now of the 
s^eet orange. It abounds at present in the Gape de 
Verd and other African islands, and in the Azores and 
the West Indies; and is becoming plentiful in Louisiana 
and Florida, in our own country. Previous to 1822, so 
abundant was the growth of this fruit on the coast and 
along the whole shore of the gulf in Louisiana, that 
oranges were lying under the trees as apples are at the 
north, after their maturity. A severe frost in the winter 
of that year destroyed the trees quite to the ground; but 
the roots have thrown out new leaves and branches, 



yGoogk 



ORANGE. 341 

which are again bearing fruit. << Orange trees have 
been grown in the southern parts of Devonshire (Eng- 
land) for more than 100 years past. When trained to 
walls they produce large, handsome fruit, but not of 
equal value to the lemons in the same situation." In 
Portugal they form compact groves. The trees require 
much artificial watering, and they are propagated by 
seed, and afterwards by grafting on these seedling trees. 
The Maltese graft their orange trees on the pomegranate 
stock, which causes the juice to be of a red colour, and 
the flavour to be more esteemed. In Portugal one single 
tree frequently bears 1500 oranges, and examples are 
not wanting of their bearing 2000, and sometimes, 
though rarely, 2500. 

The juice of the oraiige is peculiarly refreshing, by its 
saccharo-add taste, and is well calculated to allay, as it 
so often does, feverish thirst. As a dessert, it is superior 
to most other fruits. Orangeade, or the juice mixed 
with sugar and cool water, is a beverage as superior in 
its flavour as in its healthfulness to wine. But these 
praises do not extend to the pulp of the fruit, which is 
indigestible; the same objection lies against the inner 
covenng or lining of the peel. It must be added, also, 
that oranges, when gathered too early, as they often are 
for exportation, and kept too long, do not contain the 
properly matured juice, and hence are not fitted for 
weak stomachs. The peel contains an essential oil, and 
has, when dried, a grateful bitterness, by which it is a 
pleasant and, on occasions, a useful condiment 

The rind of the Seville Orange {Citrus Vulgaris), 
being considerably more bitter than that of the sweet 
orange, has more reputation as a stomachic and tonic. 
A watery infusion ought to be preferred to a tincture. 
The juice of the Seville orange is gratefully acid, with a 
21 



yGoogk 



2A2 TKxriTS. 

alight degree of bitterness. It consists of nearly the 
same principles as lemon juice. Orange'-flawer water 
has a fragrant odour, and added in a moderate quantity 
to cool water, makes a pleasant beverage. 

The remarks of Mr. McCuUoch, ( Com. Diet.) that the 
orange trade carried on by Gi^eat Britain is of consi- 
derable value and importance, appUea also to the United 
States. Oranges, he says, ^<are not much more expen- 
sive than most of our superior domestic fruits, while 
they are perhaps the most wholesome and refreshing of 
tbose of warmer climates. The entries for home oon-> 
sumption amounted in 183L and 1891^, at an average, to 
i970,006 boxes a year; and assuming each box to con* 
tain 700 oranges and lemons, the number entered for 
consumption will have been 189,424,000." In addttioa 
to the foreign supply, which is considerable, the growth 
at.home annually increaskig,.will, it is hoped, render this 
deUghtful fruit as abundant and easily pcocurable by the 
people in most parts of the United States, as the peach 
and the apple are in particular sections. 

Lbmon {Citrus Limanum).^^It is supposed that the 
Greeks and Romans were unacquainted with the orange 
and lemon, which only became known to Europeans at 
the time of the Crusades. It is more probable that they 
did not succeed in introducing them into Greece and 
Italy than that they were ignorant of them. (See Pliny, 
Book XIII, Chap. IIL) But although Assyria and Persia 
are represented to be the native countries of the lemon, 
we now obtain this^ fruit in the greatest quantity from 
Spain, Portu|^, Italy, and the Azores. The Spanish 
lemons are most esteemed. Those from St Helena are 
also much thought of. In some parts of Devonshire^ 
lemon trees are trained to the walls,, and require no 
other care than to cover them with straw or mats during 



yGoogk 



XCMOK. 24S 

the winter. The lemoii tree is of much hardier nature 
than the orange. Hencei with moderate attention to 
protect it from frost, it may be, as it is, cultivated to a 
consklerable ext^it in tubs in the middle States, so as to 
yield an abundant supply of good fruit. 

Lemon-juice consists chiefly of an acid, which, diluted 
with water and a slight addition of sugar, constitutes 
the most refreshing and cooling of all beverages in hot 
climates or in summer of more northern latitudes. By 
a per^n overh^Ued with exposure to the sun's rays in 
travel, or a feverish invalid, it is quaffed with a pl^i^ 
sure and a feeling of refreshment that cannot find their 
equivalent in the effects of alcoholic potations of any 
description. Happily, even now, after perverted inge^ 
nuity has made the inhabitants of nearly every part of 
the world cognizant of ardent spirits, the people of 
wanner climates, not spoiled by the miserable sophisms 
of drunken literature or the meteoric flashes of drunken 
poetry, still yteld in large number to the instinct which 
seeks for coolness and refreshment of the system in ve«> 
getable acids and the fruits which contain them, either 
alone, as ia Ihe ease of lemons and limes, or mixed with 
mudiage sind sugar, as in the case of ^o many olher 
fruits, in southern Europe, as in Italy and Spain, the 
populace of the cities and the inhabitants of the country 
will be found quaflSng their cool lemonade or merely 
cool wato, slighdy acidulated with lemon^juice, with a 
gusto at the time, and a freshness of feeling and hilarity 
of expression afterwards, which neither Totkay nor 
Champaigne, ^U less Madeira or Port, could supply to 
their votaaries. A happy change is going on, even in 
northern climates, and with Mr. Phillips, one can say 
with pleasure, and hope of ^ill frurther ameUoratien, 



yGoogk 



.344 FRUITS. 

<^ Lemonade and lemon-ices sure as well known in the 
present day as punch was ih the last age.'' 

The vogue which lemonade acquired in France as a 
drink was owing to its being recommended by pfajrsi- 
cians of that country in putrid fevers, so called, in the 
beginning of the seventeenth century. About the year 
1660, an Italian from Florence, having learned a pro- 
cess of freezing confectionary, conceived the happy idea 
of converting such beverage into ice. This found a ready 
sale, and was the occasion of so great an increase in the 
numberpf sellers of lemonade, that in the year 1676 the 
Limonadiers of Paris were formed into a company. 

Carne, in his letters from the East, thus describes the 
pleasure of using an acidulated beverage in a hot di- 
mate: — ** Fatigued with heat and thufst, we came to a 
few cottages in a palm-wood, and stopped to drink of a 
fountain of delicious water. In this northern climate 
(of England) no idea can be formed of the exquisite 
luxury of drinking in Egjrpt; little appetite for food is 
felt— ^but after crossing the burning sands, you reach the 
rich line of woods on the brink of the NUe, and pluck 
the fresh limes, and mixing the juice with Egyptian 
sugar and soft river water, drink repeated bowls of 
lemonade, you feel that every other pleasure of the 
senses must yield to this. One then perceives the beauty 
and force of those similes in Scripture, where the sweetest 
emotions of the heart are compared to the assuaging of 
thirst in a sultry land." 

Lemon-juice has been extensively used in the cure 
and prevention of scurvy. More benefit, however, is 
derived from the free use of fruits in which this add 
prevails than from the juice alone. As it is not easy to 
preserve the juice fresh for a length of time, chemistry 
has come to our aid, and shown how the acid of the 



yGoogk 



cirmov. 245 

temon (called eUrk) is separated in a crjrstaUine fomoL 
Cn thi^ stale it may be kept for any length of time and 
transported to all regions,and thus be m readiness for any 
exigency of appetite or disease. We must not confound 
this acid in its state of powdered crystals witfi another 
preparation called essential soli of lemons, which last 
IS procured from wood*6orreI, and is in ftct a salt com*- 
posed oi oxalic acid, the peculiar add of this plant and 
on which its grateful acidity depends, united with pot« 
ash. It is sometimes called, also, salt of wood'^orreL 
Citric acid is found in the acid juices of other fruits 
besides lei)fton and lime, or fruits of the genus Citrus, 
as I have already had occasion to observe when speak* 
ing of citric acid in the last chapter. 

Lime {Citrus JEris), is a small fruit, but contains 
more juke and citric acid than the lemon. It is brought 
principally from the West Indies. 

CiTROir — yLAJAjjK GrTBEUM— -(CiVru^ MeOca). — ^This 
species of the orange tribe is a native of Asia, tmd culti^- 
vated in the south of Europe. Though analogous in its 
effects on the human 83rstem to those of the orange and 
lemon, this fruit is seldom brought to the table in the 
raw state. It makes excellent preserves and sweetmeats. 
Those who only know of the citron in this way will be 
surprised to learn that it sometimes attains a weight pf 
more than twenty pounds. 

The peel, or rather the outer rind of all the orange 
fiunily^ viz: the sweet and bitter oranges, the citron, the 
lemon, odd the lime, contains an essential oil. These 
oils are used to flavour various dishes brought to table, 
also medicines, unguents, perfumery, and as scouring 
drops to erase the stains of grease, &c. The leaves and 
flowers also fumi^ this oil. 

But the most noted of the Citrus genus for its essen** 
21* 



yGoogk 



%46 FRinrs. 

tial oil is Citrus Bergamia, or Bergamot Orange. The 
volatik $il or essence of bergamot imported from the 
south of Europe is procured from the rind of the fruit 

Shaddock, a species of the Citrus^ derives its name 
from Captain Shaddock, who first brought it from the 
East Indies, where it is indigenous. It is now cultivated 
to a great extent in the West Indies, where the fruit 
often grows to the size of twenty indies in circumfer- 
ence, and yields sometimes nearly half a pint of clear 
juice, which in its taste and properties resembles that 
of limes and lemons. 

Melons. — ^This fruit belongs to the extensive natural 
family — the Oourd or Cucurbitacese—Axi which we find 
both the edible and actively medicinal. There are two 
kinds — the melon proper {Cucumis Melo) and the 
water melon {Cucumis CitruUus.) I shall speak of 
the former of these firist. 

The melon contains a watery, sweet, and cooling pulp, 
which is slightly nutritious when taken raw. Like most 
of our esteemed fruits, it is of Asiatic origin; some refer 
it to Armenia, others to Ehorassan. It is now spread 
over all central Asia, Africa, and southern Europe, and 
is particularly abundant in the western hemisphere. la 
the warmer regions, where the amount of food consumed 
by the inhabitants is small, and almost entirely of a 
vegetable kind, the melon comes in for a larger d^are of 
nutrimental produce than we who use it chiefly as a 
dessert would at first suppose. In Persia they reckon 
no less than twenty different kinds of melons. Some are 
so large that three or four are a full load for a man. An 
incredible quantity of them is taken to Ispahan, chiefly 
from Ehorassan,^on the borders of Little Tartary; they 
are said to bear a transportation of thirty days duration 
without injury. . Sir. John Chardin, indeed, tells of his 



yGoogk 



MSL0K8. 247 

having eaten melons at Surat which had been brought 
from Agra; and Mr. Coxe (Travels, vol. i, p. 255) says 
that a small sort of melon of exquisite flavour is sent 
from Astracan to Moscow, a distance of a thousand 
miles. It is generally considered to be the kind men- 
tioned in Scripture. 

There are many varieties of the melon in France, in 
the central and southern parts of which kingdom it is 
lai^ly consumed, being served up at table with boiled 
meat after soup, in the houses of the wealthier, and 
eaten with bread, &c. by the poorer inhabitants. The 
Honfleur melon sometimes weighs twenty-four pounds. 

The variety of melon most esteemed in every part of 
Europe is the Qantaleupe, which takes its name from 
the town of Gantaleupi, distant about fifteen miles from 
the city of Rome, where it has been Cultivated since the 
Mithridatic war, it being one of the fruits brought from 
Armenia by Lucullus. The Musk melon appears to be 
a native of Tartary, where it is found growing wild. It 
has lately been found in great abundance in the sandy 
plains in the neighbourhood of Jeypour. 

Care should be taken, in the cultivation of the melon, 
that it be kept apart, and in fact at some distance from 
other plants of the same great family, such as the cucum* 
ber, pumpkin, or squash; otherwise, the pollen or fer- 
tilizing powder from these will contaminate it, and affect 
the seeds for future plants. 

In no region of the world is there a greater quantity 
and variety of melons than in the United States. They 
abound from Jersey to Louisiana, and furnish during^ 
the latter part of the summer tod the autumnal months 
a refreshing and generally a wholesome treat to all 
classes. 

Melons ought not to retain a good name with royalty, 



yGoogk 



848 nvtrt. 

as it 18 on ncord (hat they inuire proved fatal to mavy 
crowned heads. It was this fruit eaten after snpper that 
isaccnsedof cauring the death of George L whoesqpired 
in ius carriage, (June 21st, 1727.) Simon Paidos says 
it has caused the death of four empesom Pope Paui 
III. died of indigestion caused by Melons; and Cl«nent 
VII. is said to have eaten of them with avidity during 
his last and fatal sickness. Frederick the Great fire- 
quently, even in his last mckness, gave himself an indi- 
gestion by eating three or four of them for break&st 
Much, however, of the bad name which this and some 
other ftuits have acquired, proceeds from the improper 
time at which ttey are eaten. Wholesoine in the 
mornings allowable as a dessert to a person in heakh, 
and even to some invalids after dinner, they may prove 
noxious when taken in the evening, and especially just 
before retiring to bed. 

Melons are generally eaten with sugar or salt and 
pepper as condiments; by some to increase the pleasure 
of taste, by others with a view of preventing them from 
being oppressive to the stomach. 

Water Melon. — This is the kind of melon which is 
so abuadent in the United States, and which in some 
districts is entided to the torms of praise used by Dr. 
Shaw, when he says, <<The water melon is doubtless 
providiantially calcsdatedibr the southern countries, and 
affords a cool, refreshing juice, assuages thirst, mitigates 
feverish disorders, and compehsates thereby in no small 
degree for the excessive heat'' Hasselquist says that 
the water melon, which is cultivated in the alluvial soil 
left by the immdation of the Nile, serves them for meat, 
drink, and physic In the southern and middle States, 
the consumption of this fruit, both in town and coun^, 
by all classes, is immense— Ah evidence, tl^, both of its 



yGoogk 



PUMPKIN. 249 

abundance and ks cheapness. In southern Europe it is 
also a favourite, and the traveller in Naples will call to 
mind its use in that luxurious capital; ladies seated in 
their open carriages, are seen of a summer evening 
eating water melons 

The juice of this fruit is sweet and somewhat muci- 
laginous, and, when cool, it is exceedingly grateful and 
refreshing: the invalM, especially the dyspeptic, will find 
it most prudent not to swallow the pulpy part which 
remains after the juice is squeezed from it, and not to 
encroach at all upon the rind. In districts in which in- 
termittent fever is common, melons have the reputation 
of often bringing on a return of the disease in those who 
eat of them. Without undertaking formally their defence, 
we may readily believe that the blame does not attach 
to the properly matured fruit, eaten at a fit time of the 
day, as to that which is unripe or eaten at night. Besides, 
the brandy or whisky drinker, with his swelled spleen 
and liver, is particularly slow to acknowledge injury 
from those liquors and their like, and particularly prone 
to attribute his malady, or its aggravation, to any cause 
but the true one. 

PuMPxrar. — In the same &mily as the melons, are 
found the pumpkin, squash or semlin, and cucumber. 
The alimentary use of the pumpkin {Cucurbita Pepo) 
is greater than of any of the cucurbitaceous family, 
both in the old and the new world. It has the ad- 
vantage, in its firmer substance, of keeping for a 
length of time, and even forming part of winter stores 
in thrifty housewifery. In southern Poland, the 
Ukraine, and throughout southern Russia, Persia, and 
Armenia, the pumpkin and the melon, and also the 
cucumber, are eaten to an extent hardly thought of 
elsewhere. Niebuhr, the celebrated traveller in the 



yGoogk 



SSO nuini. 

East, says: <<0f pumpkins and mekms, several sorts 
grow naturally in the woods, and senre for feeding 
camels, biit the proper mekMis are 'planted in the field^ 
where a great variety of them is to be found, and in 
such abundance, that the Arabians o{ aU ranks use them 
for some part o£ the year as their principal article of 
food.'' 

The red, or fruit jMroper of the ptoipkin, divested of its 
rind, is prepared by boiling, and then, after admixture 
with sugar, baked and served up with pastry. Our 
friends in New England daim, we believe, to be the 
best artistes in the preparation of this dish, as they in- 
oontesftibly are our exemplars m the large consumption 
•of it A£ijced with a portion of apples similarly pre- 
pared, the flavour of the pumpkin pie is coninderably 
improved. 

The CuctrMBSR (Cucwmia Sativui) is eaten in very 
different fashions: ihe first, aiid the common one, is that 
adopted in northern EXnrope and in the United States^ 
and consists in peeling die cucumber, yet in its gre^i 
state, cutting it into thin^Blices, and m&sk% it with ssdt, 
pepper, vinegar, &c. In this way the freab juice is taken, 
togetfier with a resisting fibro-pulpy substance, neither 
of which is friendly to a weak stooftacfa, but, on the 
contmry, will prove very often noxiims. When allowed 
to reach maturity, its texture being 8oftlmed,and the juice 
correspondingly changed and mikl^, it is oft^i eaten in 
(dices by the rural part of oar popiilation, either with 
salt or pepper, or crften without any addition. The 
second fasb^n, and that resorted to by the larger num- 
ber of pedpla in the south and east of Europe, and ia 
Asia, consists in subjecting the cucumber, which is 
allowed to acquire its fall growth, to some culinary 
process, by which it is re&dered mOd, soft and easy of 



yGoogk 



CUCT7MBXR. 251 

digestion. The Tartar inhabitants af the Crimea, raise 
a large Turkish variety, which they fill with meat and 
rice, and eat of in abundance. The fruit of the egg plant 
is also dressed in the same way. There is yet another 
manner of preparing the cucumber, and also gourds, for 
food. They are allowed to ripen fully; are then gathered 
and cut into pieces, and still further dried in the sun or 
by artificial heat, and finally reduced by a kind of grind- 
ing, into a coarse meal: this is eaten with fat, oil or 
butter, and some condimental addition. 

The cucumber has been extensively cultivated from 
the earliest periods, as well as most of the other species 
of gourd. When the Israelites complained to Moses in 
the wilderness, comparing their old Egyptian luxuries- 
with the manna upon which they were fed, they ex- 
claimed: " We remember the fish which we did eat ia 
Egypt freely— the encumbers and the melons.'^ The 
encumber of Syria was cultivated in large open fields, in 
which a hut was erected for the abode of the watchman, 
who guarded the fruit against foxes and jackals. On the 
western side of the Jordan, Bmrkhardt saw fields of cu- 
ciimbers; and in India, beyond the Ganges, Bishop 
Heber saw a man in a small shed of bamboos and 
thatch, watching a field of cucumbers. He again ob- 
served a watcher of cucumbers, who lighted a fire during 
the night, to keep ofi* the wild dogs and wolves fix>m his 
frnit. (Lib. But Knotvledge. — THmbeVf TVees and 
FruU.) We mast suppose that the cucumbers were 
near maturity, when dogs and wolves were expected to^ 
make an attack on diem. The instinct which warns 
against what is noxious, would keep even these animals 
away from green cucumbers. 

The next tribe of fruit-bearing trees> of which I shall 
make brief mention, are the Pomacess^ 



yGoogk 



252 FRUITS. 

Apple {Pyrus Mains). — The apple is the favourite 
fruit in the north, as the orange is in the south*^ It may, 
indeed, be designated as the fruit of the colder climates. 
It remains the longest in season, is used in the greatest 
number of ways, and, therefore, is the most generally 
cultivated. The useful qualities of the apple have ex- 
tended its cultivation throughout Europe, as far as the 
60th degree, north latitude. In America, it does not 
flourish as far north as this, but still it has a great geo- 
graphical range, viz. from Maine to Tennessee. The 
American apples are among the finest in the world, and 
those from New York and New Jersey, are most prized. 
Those of England, and Normandy (France), are also of 
a superior kind. 

The apple-tree, in common with our most esteemed 
cultivated fruits, is a native of the East. The chief va- 
rieties in England are probably derived from France, as 
most of the names are French, either pure or corrupted. 
The golden-pippin is, however, generally regarded as 
English. Catharine of Russia was so fond of this ap- 
ple, that she was regularly supplied with it {torn Eng- 
land; and in order that she might have it in the greatest 
perfection, each apple was separately enveloped in 
silver paper before it was packed. 

Apples intended to be kept for the winter, should re- 
main on the trees until quite ripe, when they should be 
gathered in dry weather, and placed in a heap for five 
or six weeks, in order to sweat: they should then be 
carefully wiped dry, and those that are perfectly sound, 
packed in large jars or boxes, so as to be excluded from 
the air, which will keep them sound and plump, with a 
retention of their flavour. {Phillips's Pomariutn JBri" 
Umnieum, p. 57.) 

Apples are imported in considerable quantities into 



yGoogk 



AFFLSS — CIDER. 25S 

England, from the opposite shores of France, Normandy 
being famous for this fruit, and also from the United 
States. The average amount in this way, for three 
yearS) ending 1831, was 86,000 bushels a year. With 
suitable care, apples might be sent to southern Europe 
in exchange for its oranges. The chief apple growing 
counties in England, lie on each side the Bristol Chan- 
nel; Worcester and Hereford to the north, and Somer- 
set and Devon to the south. To these may be added 
Monmouth, Gloucester and Somerset Mr. Marshall 
calculates the produce of four of these counties to be 
30,000 hogsheads a year. The entire quantity of cider 
and perry made in England, is about 75,000 hogsheads 
or 4,725,000 gallons annually. The quantity of apples 
required to make a hogshead of cider, is from 24 to 30 
bushels; and in a good year, an acre of orchard will 
produce somewhere about 600 bushels. This is an 
estimate of an Ei^lish orchard's productiveness. I have 
not seen a similar statement of the capability in this 
way of an American one. The produce of the orchards 
is very fluctuating, and the growers seldom expect an 
abundant crop more than onoe in three years. 

From an average of four years, ending in 1837, the 
annual export of apples from the United States, may be 
stated to amount to 19,462 barrels, valued at 35,886 
dollars. Of this quantity, 3237 barrels were shipped 
for England, 6782 were sent to the British North Ameri- 
can colonies, and 4280 to the island of Cuba. {M^Cul" 
loehj Diet. Jim. edit) The value of the products of 
the orchard in the United States, in 1840, was about 
eight millions of dollars; but what was the proportion 
of apples and of peaches, and how much in cider and 
brandy (apple and peach), I am not apprized. In France, 
the people drink no less than 8^8,218 hectolitres of 
22 



yGoogk 



354 FRUITS. 

cider, or upwards of 234,121,000 gallons, which, at 7 
per cent, alcohol, (Mr. Brande makes it 9 for cider,) are 
equal to 32,777,908 gallons of common whisky or gin — 
a pretty good item this in the consumption of intoxicat- 
ing drinks in France. 

The apple, containing both malic and acetic acids, 
with some sugar, has a pleasant and refreshing flavour, 
and to persons in health, constitutes a useful addition to 
bread or other farinaceous food. It is inimical to the 
dyspeptic, the rheumatic, the gouty and those troubled 
with renal and cutaneous disorders: it is oj^ten a source of 
serious, sometimes fatal disease in children who have 
not masticated the fruit sufficiently, but swallowed it in 
pieces of some size. There are instances of portions of 
apple having been brought up again by eructation in 
the same state in which they had been swallowed two 
days previously. The words of Horace, poniifero grave 
tempus aunoy are not then merely poetical. Subjected 
to various changes by roasting, baking and stewing, 
and the addition of sugar, apples acquire more nutri- 
tive value: and when eaten, as they often are, with 
milk or cream and bread, may be regarded as furnishing 
a meal equal to the subsequent requirements of active 
exercise if not of labour. Duduit tells us, that one-third 
part of boiled apple pulp, baked with two-thirds of 
flour, and properly fermented with yeast for twelve 
hours, makes a very good bread, full of eyes, and quite 
palatable and light. {New Month. Mag. June, 1621.) 
Of all pies, the apple has enjoyed the greatest reputation, 
except, perhaps, that of the pumpkin in New England; 
it is regarded with diflerent eyes by the dyspeptic in- 
valid, who rails at the apples, when in fact the pastry 
was the chief ofiensive, if not the ofiending substanoe. 
A medical writer has said, that << nothing is more light 



yGoogk 



PEAa. 255 

than good apple pie," but singularly qualifies his praise, 
by adding, " always excepting the crust and the hurtful 
addition, so usually made of stimulating spices, by way 
of seasoning what seems to require none/' The aphor- 
ism might be expressed somewhat differently, in these 
words: Apple cooked is light and generally wholesome; 
apple-pie, precisely because it is a pie, is often oppres- 
sive to the stomach and injurious to the invalid. 

Very pleasant confections are made of apples, called 
appleJbtttter and apple-jelly. 

Peab, {Pj/rus Communis.) — The pear-tree would 
fleem to be of great* antiquity: Homer describes it as 
forming part of the orchard of Laertes; and by the 
Athenians it was consecrated to Minerva before the 
olive. Pliny mentions several sorts of pears that were 
grown in^ Italy; and particularly mentions that a fer- 
mented liquor was formed of their juice. It is probable 
that the Romans brought the cultivated pear to Eng- 
land; and that, subsequently, the monks paid great at- 
tention to its varieties. Most of the finest kinds of 
pears, at present, are admitted to be of continental 
origin, — the horticulturists of France and the Nether- 
lands* having paid more attention to this species of fruit 
than was given to it in England. 

The two most marked divisions of pears are the sum- 
mer and the winter,— the former soft in texture and 
sweet; the latter less saccharine, but somewhat acerb 
and fibrous. Pears, if contrasted with apples, may be 
said to have more sugar and lignin and less acid in their 
composition than the latter fruit. They are not adapted 
to persons with weak digestion, nor to those of a 
phlegmatic constitution, nor to old persons. Baked 
pears with sugar make a pleasant dessert. The fer- 
mented juice of the pear^ or perry, was in more repute 



yGoogk 



j956 TRmrs. 

in former times than at present. It is made of the 
crudest and hardest varieties of the fruit. 

Quince, (Pyrtc^Cyctonifl.)— This fruit was originally 
from the island of Candia, (Crete.) The ancients held 
it in high estimation, considering it as the emblem of 
happiness, of love, and of fruitfulness: it was dedicated 
lo Venus, and the temples of Cyprus and Paphos were 
decorated with it. Columella says, that quinces not 
only yield pleasure but health also. It is the opinion 
of some of the learned, that quinces were the golden 
apples of the Hesperides, and not oranges, as certain 
commentators assert. Notwithstanding these praises, 
he who attempts to eat the fruit just as it is gathered 
from the tree, will feel little inclined to join in them. 
But, on the other hand, when properly prepared, by 
boiling and simmering over a slow yet strong fire and 
mixture with sugar, quinces form one of the pleasantest 
conserves we have. An excellent marmelade is also 
made from this fruit: the term itself is derived from 
marmeloj the Portuguese name. for the quince. In the 
south of France, particularly on the borders of the Gra- 
ronne, this fruit is cuUivated very extensively; and the 
peasants prepare from it a marmelade, which they call 
catignac. The mucilage of quince seeds is nutritive, 
demulcent and emollient. It is by Pereira {Mat MecLj 
1127) thought to be a peculiar principle, which he calls 
cydonin. The entire seed, if taken in large quantity, 
would, he suggests, act like bitter almonds, as they are 
said to yield hydrocyanic (prussic) acid. The mucilage 
is almost always employed, externally, as an emdUieiit 
and sheathing application to cracked lips and nipples, 
to inflamed eyes, to certain painful tumours, &c. Hair* 
dressers use it as a cement for dressing the hair in 
braids. 



yGoogk 



PSAOH. 857 

Belonging to the same natural family, viz., the 
Sosacess of Jtissieu, both the fruits last spoken of, but 
of a diflferent tribe, are the ^mygdaleas, under which 
are ranged the peach| the plum, the common almond, 
and common cherry. 

t^EACH, {Persica Vulgaris.) — If any fruit in the 
United States can be called national from its abundance 
and general ezcellenee of flavour, it is the peach. It 
unites the zones of the orange and the apple, — coming 
between and running into each of these, as we have 
seen maize to do between rice and wheat. 

The classical and botanical name of the peach be- 
speaks its origin from Persia, whence it was brought 
by those universal conquerors and colonisers, the Ro- 
mans, into Italy, and by them carried into France. 
Like 90 many of its good fruits and most esteemed 
vegetables, the peach dates its introduction into Eng- 
land about the middle of the sixteenth century. It is 
there chiefly a wall fruit. Much attention is paid to 
ihe cultivation of peach trees in the neighbourhood of 
Paris; and the peaches there are of excellent quality. 
The principal gardens for the supply of the French 
capital are at Montreuil, a village near Paris; and one 
tree sometimes covers sixty feet of wall, from the one 
extremity to the other. The Montreuil peaches are of 
the finest flavour; and their excellence is properly at- 
tributed to the exclusive attention of the people to their 
culture. The espalier peaches of the Due de Praslin, 
near Melun, are stated to be the finest in Europe. — 
( Timber Trees and Fruits.) 

The facility of raising the peach from the stone has 
I»robably tended to its general difi'usion throughout the 
world. This fruit has steadily followed the progress of 
eivilization; and man, ^ from China to Peru," has sur- 

28* 



yGoogk 



fi&B rauiTs. 

rounded himself with the luzpry of this, and of the 
otker stone fruits, very soon after he has begun to taste 
the blessings of a civilized life. Such has been the 
profusion of peaches in some portions^ of our country, 
that the proprietors of orchards thought themselves 
obliged to convert a good share of the fruit into brandy 
in order to prevent waste. A better view of economy, 
' connected with better ethics is, we believe, beginning 
to be taken on this point; and it will, we trust, ere long 
be generally admitted, that an improved system of plant* 
ing and grafting, and close attention, will be rewarded 
by fruit of such a quality as will command a fair price 
at near markets, without the implied necessity of con* 
verting it into poison, and of deriving income from 
the vitiated appetites and the physical distresses and 
diseases, to say nothing of the moral degradation, of 
our fellow creatures. 

The flesh of the peach is both palatable and nutri- 
tious, on account of its sugar, gum, &c., and, as mecKcal 
men term it, slightly refrigerant from the free malic 
acid which it contains. Peaches and milk, with sugar, 
constitute a dessert which loses nothing of its relish and 
salubrity by its commonness in this country. Before 
they are yet ripe, some kinds of them, almost too coarse 
to be taken raw, are usefully stewed with sugar, — and 
for the day; or if the process be a little prolonged, the 
result is a fine preserve, which will answer ifor the next 
year. Peeled, stoned and sliced, peaches are dried in 
large quantities, and put aside for use during the en* 
suing winter and spring. Stewed with sugar, and 
eaten alone or with milk and bread, they make a diet 
which an invalid, merely on the score of taste, migbl 
be well content with. I have been told of an in* 
stance, in the Valley in Virginia, of a family having 



yGoogk 



PLUM— *PaUN£S« Z59 

made enough, by seUing. the piodocts of a peach 
oichardy and xnainiy dried peaces, to enable them to 
purchase an adjoining farm^ of several hundred acres. 
Captain Head, in his ^ Rough Notes/^ mentions the 
beauty and productiveness of the peach-trees which are 
scattered over the grain-fields in the country between 
the Andes and the La Plata; and he notices, aJso, dried 
peaches as an article of food in die mountainous parts, 
to .which, of course, they must be carried from the 
plains. 

The two chief kinds of peaches are the /ree stone 
and the cling stone; from the former the flesh is eaaly 
detached, — to the latter it adheres closely. 

But although the fruit is wholesome and nutrition^ 
when ripe, and eaten within the bounds of moderation 
at a suitable time of the day, not night, the kernels, 
the bhssomsy the leavee, and the bark oi the peach4ree 
poesess poisonous propertie& All these parts have 9 
peculiar yet pleasant bitterness, similar to that of bitter 
almond, and depending on the same principle, (prussic 
or hydrocyanic acid.) The leaves are sometimes em« 
j^Xof^i in cooking and confectionary for imparting a 
flavour. This is not the place to speak of the medi^ 
cmal application of the leaves, bark, &c.; but it is well 
to state, as a caution, that injurious and even fatal 
effects have resulted from the empirical and domestic 
prescription of some of them for the cure of particidat 
diseases, such as worms. 

Plum, {Prunvs Damestiea)^^TRVi9Bs, {Drupx SSc* 
eaUe iVtim.)---^The varieties of the plum are numerous^ 
In England, some of them are bioug^ to a largesize and 
fine flavour. In this country it is, as yet, generally an 
m£eam fhnt. At best, however, il is more grateful to the 
tatte than whole8ome,*-*and cannot at all compete with 



yGoogk 



260 FSUITS. 

the peach. I introdnce it here, with a view of noticing 
it in a dried state, when it acquires the name of prune. 

Prunes are principally procured from Portugal and 
the south of France. The plums are dried in warm 
countries, by solar heat, on hurdles; but in colder di- 
mates, artificial heat is employed. In France, both 
methods are adopted; the fruit being exposed to the 
heat of an oven, and to that of the sun, on alternate 
days. Table prunes are prepared from the larger 
kinds of plum, — as the Saint Catharine and the Reine 
Claude (Green Gage): Medicinal prunes from the 
Saint Julien. The former tmre an agreeable, very 
sweet taste; the latter are somewhat austere. They 
are principally imported from Bordeaux. (Pereira, 
Op. eiL) The quantity imported into England, in 1832, 
was ^^SS cwt. 

By drying, or even by baking for culinary purposes, 
the plum becomes salutary, and, in its former state 
especially, is tak&n with advantage by invalids of slow 
digestion. Stewed prunes is a favourite, and one of the 
few safe and useful domestic prescriptions. 

Almokd, {Jlmygdalus Communis.) — The almond 
was well known to the ancients^ it is mentioned in the 
book of OenesiSj (xliii. 11.) The fruit is not so attr^u:- 
tive as that of the peach; because instead of presenting 
the same delicious pulp as the latter, the pericarp of the 
almond shrivels as the firuit ripens; and when the ripen- 
ing is completed, it has become a horny kind of hodr, 
which opens of its own accord. The kernel of the 
almond is sometimes ctefended by so thin a sheU, that 
the nuts break when shaken together. 

Almond oil is principally proourod from the poiaoDoas 
variety, or bitter almond. There is another conatitaent 
of ahmods termed Emulsin^ or the vegetable albumen 



yGoogk 



almon]>-^<;h£rry. 2QI 

qf almonds. It is white and soluble in cold water, and 
henoe it is a coostitaaiit of almioDd emulsion. This lat« 
ter agrees in many of its properties with animal milk^ 
with whidi it agrees in possessing nutritive and emol* 
lient qualities. Almood emulsion or ahnond milk, is 
made by beating i oz. of blanched almonds with i oz. 
of powdered gum arable; i white sugar, and adding 
water six ounces and a half, or about thirteen table-^^ 
i^KKNisfuU It is highly recommended in pulmonary af-^ 
fections, to appease cough and to allay irritation; and in 
inflammatory ofiections of the alimentary canal or of the 
renal apparatus. We should however regard it rather 
as a dietetic aid* to active treatment, than as having itself 
any decided medicinal properties; and with this view I 
notice it in this place. 

Sweet almonds are nutritive and demulcent; but <m 
account of the quantity of oil which they contain, they 
are sometimes difficult of digestion, at least if taken in 
large quantities or by persons whose digestive powers 
are weak. When rancid, they are still more apt to dis« 
order the stomach. The husk or skin (pellicle) of the 
almond has been known to occasion nausea, uneasiness 
in ibe alimentary passages, increased heat, cBdematous 
swelling of the face, followed by urticaria or nettle 
rash. On this account, almonds for the table should 
always be blanched. Blanched and roasted, they have 
been used as a substitute for coffee. 

Cherry, {Prunus Cerastu.) — The cherry is a native 
of most temperate countries of the northern hemisphere. 
Though abundant, Una fruit has not either the size or 
the flavour in this country which it so commonly has in 
England. This imperfect development gives additional 
efiSBCt to its naturally acid properties, and makes it an 
unwholesome fruit, especially when consumed in the 



yGoogk 



262 FBUIT8* 

quantities and in the unripe state in which it so com- 
monly is among us. The skin ought to be rejected by 
those eating the fruit. 

Several liqueurs are made from cherries; among the 
most esteemed of which is cherry-brandy or cherry- 
bounce, which in flavour is superior to that of most 
wines; and if alcoholic drinks were ever safe for daily 
use, this diluted with water 'would be entitled to the 
preference. But in the case of the cherry, as of all other 
fruits, let us enjoy with thankfulness their pleasant 
flavour and their often nutritive properties, without 
either adding to them a poison, or converting them into 
one. Man has < devilish devices' enough to answer for 
without this remaining any longer on the list. 

Of the pleasant genus Ribesy I have not room to say 
as much as their modest merits justify. They include 
the varieties of Curr an/ and the gooseberry. 

GuBRANT, (Ribesy) was once regarded as the Corin- 
thian grape degenerated. It is now more properly 
spoken of as indigenous to Great Britain, in many parts 
of which it is found growing naturally. There are three 
varieties, white, red and black, in common cultivation 
and use. The white having the most delicate flavour, 
is most in request for the dessert; the red is more used 
in the preparation of jellies. For pastry the currant is 
among the most valuable of British fruits, being easily 
preserved, and growing in sufficient abundance, on ac- 
count of its hardiness, to offer a cheap luxury to the 
humblest classes. In parts of the country where it is 
the custom to train the currant against the walls of the 
house, its rich dark leaves, and its brilliant fruit, growing 
over the latticed window, oflfor almost as pleasing a pic- 
ture as the vines of Italy. I transcribe this passage from 
the English work already cited, {Timber TVees and 



yGoogk 



G008SBERRT — BASPBXBST. 263 

FruitSy) in the hope that it may indte more than one 
reader of these pages to imitate and prompt others to 
imitate this pleasant feature of English rural life. Our 
currants in the United States gire a very faint idea of 
die size and fine fiarour of those in England and Ire- 
land. We have suitable soil and climate; and a better 
and more careful horticulture is all that is requisite ta 
procure for us cherries^ currants and gooseberries, equal 
to the English. 

The berries of the black currant are larger than those 
of the red or the white, but they are not so juicy; and 
the crop upon a dngle bush is less abundant: they are 
supposed to have medicinal qualities, which do not be* 
long to the other species of currants. They can be made 
into a very pleasant jelly, which, in rural pharmacy, is 
recommended in cases of sore throat. 

6oo8£B£RRY {Rtbcs grossularto) is a fruit much- 
better adapted to cold than to warm climates. If not a 
native of Britain, it flourishes there, and of a size which 
W0UI4 astonish persons who had never seen any other 
than our poor dwarf specimens in this country. Great 
pains are taken, in different parts of England, to exdte. 
a friendly rivalry in bringing the gooseberry to the 
great^t perfeetion. The gooseberry shows of Lanca- 
shire, Cheshire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire, and other 
noianufacturing counties, are conducted with great sys- 
tem, and an annual account of them, forming a little 
volume, is printed and published at Manchester. The 
heaviest gooseberry which appears to have received a 
prize, was exhibited at the Shakspeare Tavern, Nant- 
witch, in 1826: it weighed 31 dwts. 16 grs. Gooseber- 
ries are of various colours, — white, yellow, green and- 
red: . the yellow have generally the ridiest flavour. > 
RASFBXBBr, (Bubus Ideus.)'^The led raspbenry is 



yGoogk 



S64 FRUITS. 

indigenous to Great Britain^ it being often fcnind wild 
there. Its present flaronr and estimation compared with 
those which it possessed towards the latter end of the 
sixteenth century, in that country, diow the improve- 
ment which this fruit has undergone by cultivation* The 
larger kinds of raspberry, both red and yellow, were 
brought to England from the Netherlands. The latter 
is most admired as dessert; and it is a somewhat cttiiont 
foct, that all the white fruits of the berry kind, are 
sweater than the coloured, whereas, other fruits that are 
coloured are sweeter than the white. The red rasp* 
berry is considered the finest for flavouring ices, jams, 
&a There is a third kind, which produces two crops a 
year; they answer best when the shrubs are mixed with 
the others. 

The peculiar yet pleasant flavour of the raspberry, is 
quite evanescent. Even a few hours will diminish it; 
and if the berries be kept for two or three days, the 
flavour is almost entirely gone. Even on the bush, the 
flavour does not continue above two or three days after 
the flruit is ripe. A quantity of peat or bog earth greatly 
improves both the flavour and the size of the raspberry. 
New varieties may easily be obtained from the seed, 
the plants raised from which begin to bear the second 
year. 

The raspberry is among the most wholesome of our 
sunmier fruits, and is adaf^ed to nearly all ages and 
constitutions. It contributes to preserve a regular state 
of the bowels. 

Stbawbesbt, (Fragaria Fesec^) derives its name 
from the practice, once oonmion, of putting straw 
round the plant This fruit, by the extent of its growth, 
both in Europe and America, and the fine aroma and 
flavour which it possesses^ has acquired a well merited 



yGoogk 



STRAWBEBR7 — CBANBEBRT. 265 

reputation. In the western country, the wild strawberry 
is abundant and of excellent flavour; but those in our 
gardens do not exhibit either the size, variety or fine 
taste which they are susceptible of acquiring. Linnaeus 
gave the strawberry a vogue among invalids as a remedy 
or prophylactic against gout, which the fruit does not 
deserve: its acidity is often prejudicial not only to the 
gouty, so called, but to the dyspeptic, and to young chil- 
dren who may be prone to intestinal disease. 

With sugar and milk, strawberries make a good 
dessert; but, tabe fully enjoyed, they ought to be eaten 
at the moment of their being gathered from the vine, 
when their aroma is greatest, and there is less risk of 
their running into the acetous fermentation than after 
they have been some time in the market, and per- 
haps another period in the house. The old scarlet 
strawberry, and the old pine or Carolina strawberry, 
both of them procured from North America, are the two 
varieties most prized at this time in Great Britain. The 
last is of a deep red on both sides, and it is the most 
highly flavoured and rich of all strawberries, constituting 
the most valuable variety that has yet been discovered. 
Strawberry jam is much esteemed; and the flavour com- 
municated to ice cream, by the strawberry, is preferred 
to that of the raspberry or indeed of any other fruit. 

Cbanbebby, {Vaccinium Oxycocctis.) This fruit,.^ 
sometimes called red whortleberry, yields citric acid 
and astringency of the most grateful kind. With a 
suitable addition of sugar, and preparation by boiling 
and stewing, cranberries are used to a great extent in 
the United States, either with pastry, or as a sauce to 
meats, particularly turkey, or alone as a dessert. I know 
of no kind of preserves equal to cranberries for long 
Toyages: they keep so well, and their acid flavour is so 
23 



yGoogk 



f66 FRUITS. 

refreshing to a palate which has for its chief stimulus, 
under these circumstances, salt meat 

Cranberries are imported into England from Russia 
and North America. 

Tamarind, {Tamarindus Indica.) — ^The tamarind 
tree flourishes both in the East and West Indies. J^e 
fruit, or rather the tamarind pulp, as analysed hj Vau- 
quelin, yielded citric,. malic and tartaric acids, with bi- 
tartrate of potassa, sugar, gum, and vegetable jelly, 
parenchyma and water. 

Tamarinds are refreshing to the feverish patient, and 
at the same time medicinal. An infusion of tamarinds 
forms a very pleasant cooling drink, as does also tama- 
rind whey. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER XL 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



Proximate principles of animal matters— Fibrin— Albumen— Gkla- 
tin — Casein— Osmazome. — Milk, its products and preparations — 
Alimentary or primary staminal principles— The aqueous. — Water 
in all the fluids and solids of organized beings, — its universality 
and use in all the organs— Mixture of staminal principles neces- 
sary—Milk, a general aliment, — ^its composition in different ani* 
mals— Causes affecting its quantity and quality — Milk the only pro- 
per food for infants— Its occasional mixture with farinaceous sub- 
stances—Dietetic value of milk— Properties of good and bad 
milk— Additions to milk, for food — Butter,— its composition, pre- 
paration, and preservation — Cluantity consumed in Great Britain 
and United States— Ohee, the butter in India— Dietetic value of 
butter — Cheese,— its preparation and varieties; large use of— 
YHien, and how proper for food. — Egg,— its composition, and nu- 
tritive properties, — consumption of, in London. 

It will facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge of t^^e 
nutritive properties of animal substances used for food, 
and at the same time aid us in classifying them, if, as 
was done in the case of vegetable food, I first indicate 
their chief proximate animal principles. These are 
Jibriny albumen^ gelatin, casein, and oil or fat; some 
others will be more briefly noticed afterwards. 

If we cut off an outside piece of raw meat from an 
animal recently killed, we will suppose it to be either an 
ox or a sheep, we see a red part or flesh proper, next 



yGoogk 



268 ANIMAL FOOD. 

faty and then externally a thin, sometimes a shining part, 
which forms a kind of cover to the others. Now the 
first part or red fiesh, the lean as it is also called, con- 
sists of fibrin chiefly, the next of animal oil, or fat, and 
the third of gelatin. But the separation is never so 
complete and distinct as might be inferred from this dis- 
tinction, for if we cut out with the greatest care a piece 
of what we might call, at first, all lean or red flesh, a 
more attentive inspection, even with the naked eye, will 
show us layers of fine fat separating the interstices of 
lean, and each of these again connected more closely by 
a thin and delicate lamina or sheath, analogous in its 
nature to the thicker and outside covering of the whole 
piece. The inference from this second and more minute 
inspection is, that each piece of the lean of meat, how- 
ever small, consists in reality of red part or fibrin pro- 
per, with an investment of membrane, which is gelatin 
and albumen, and a looser layer which is of fat or ani- 
mal oil. This premised, the reader wUl follow me with 
more satisfaction in a brief description of the several 
proximate animal principles and the means of prociuing 
them pure, as well as the parts of the animal in which 
they are most abundant 

Fibrin. This principle enters into the composition of 
bipod besides being the basis of muscular fl^i. The red 
colour in both these substances is adventitious. If we 
stir freshly drawn blood briskly with a rod or birch, the 
fibrin coagulates slowly into colourless fibres whidi ad- 
here to the rod, while the rest of the blood remains fluid 
with the red globules or colouring portion floating in it. 
By washing in cold water, the adhering fibres are stSI 
further whitened and purified, and are then simple 
fibrin. If we take the clot of blood which separates 
from the more fluid part, after it is drawn from a vein 



yGoogk 



FIBRIN— AJ^UlfEN-^ELATIN. 269 

tod cooled in a vessel, and wash it repeatedly in the 
handy there will remain a twisted white cord-like sub* 
stance which is fibrin. Slices of lean beef subjected to 
soaking in repeated portions of warm water will also 
exhibit a residue which is fibrin, with, however, minute 
adber^it particles of fat and membrane. Digested in 
concentrated nitric acid, fibrin swells and becomes a 
bulky tremulous jelly, which dissolves completely in a 
considerable quantity of hot water. Alcohol converts it 
into a fatty matter. 

Albumen. This animal principle exists in the se- 
rum, as it is called, or saline and watery part of the 
blood; also in the skin and lower tissue beneath it, and 
which mixed with fat surrounds the lean of beef. It is 
divided into two varieties, liquid and solid. LiquM 
albumen is best procured from the white of eggs, which 
consists almost solely of this principle. In this state it 
is a thick glairy fluid, insipid, inodorous, and easily 
miscible with cold water. Liquid albumen is coagulated 
by heat, alcohol, and the stronger acids. The character 
of being coagulated by hot water distinguishes albumen 
from all other animal fluids. 

Albumen i^ of great use in clarifying syrups, as by 
entangling in its substance all the fecula and foreign 
particles, it carries them with it to the surface or falls 
to the bottom of the liquid. Albumen is both an excel- 
lent test and the best antidote for corrosive sublimate. 

Gelatin. This principle is not found in the animal 
fluids in health, but it exists in large proportion in the 
tendons, cartilage or gristle, bones, and the membranes 
which invest the limbs and the muscles separately, as 
also in the loose filamentous tissue under the skin and 
between the muscles, and which is interwoven with 
the fat» It has been made a question by Berzelius and 

23* 



yGoogk 



670 ANIMAL VOOD. 

olihen, whether gelatin is really a principle in anitnal 
tissnes, or is not formed by boiling; for it is by this pvo* 
cess that the part3 already mentioned are converted into 
gelatin with the properties under which it is recognised 
and described. These are, its ready solubility in boiling 
water, and the solution forming a bulky semi*transpa- 
renty tremulous jelly as it cools, which is again soluble 
in boiling water, by which it is distii^ishable from 
albumen and fibrin. Its tendency to form a jelly is 
such, that one part of gelatin, dissolred in a hundred 
parts of water, becomes a tremulous solid on cooling. 
Isinglass, which is the purest variety of gdatin, is pre- 
pared from the sounds of the genus acipenierj e^ecially 
from the sturgeon. The animal jelly of the confectioners 
is made from calves' feet, the tendinous and ligamentous 
parts of which yield a large quantity of gelatin. The 
common gelatin of commerce is the well known cement 
called gluCy which is prepared by boiling in water the 
cuttings of parchment, or the skins, ears, and hoofe of 
animals, and evaporating the solution. 

The gelatin of bones may be obtained by the solvent 
power of water when exalted by beat and pressure, 
as in the celebrated digester of Papin. Gelatin is the 
principal ingredient in soup. Hence, by evaporation, 
soup may be reduced to the consistence of a glue, whidi, 
if osmazome be present, comprises, within a very small 
space, the materials for regenerating, with the aid of hot 
water, the soup from which it was^obtained. In the in- 
durated state, gelatin has been sold under the name of 
portable soup: but as we shall see hereafter, gelatin 
alone requires additions to make it nutritive and pal- 
atable. 

The precipitation of gelatin by tannin and its fixatkm 
in a permanently solid state, give rise to the process of 



yGoogk 



cASBnr. 171 

tanmng LBather, and rendering il fit for (boesi boots^ and 
numerons other purposes. 

Cassin or Gasbubc This is the ehief or rather the most 
animalizing principle in milk. It is the curd obtained 
from milk by the rennet^ and separated from the whey by 
washing with cold water. In this state it is a white, in« 
sipid, inodoroi^ substance, insoluble in water, but rea« 
dily soluble in the alkalies, especially in ammonia. By 
alcohol it is converted, like fibrin and albumen, into an 
adipocerous substance of a fetid odour, and like these 
two principles, it may be dissolved by a sufficient quan- 
tity of acetic acid. Casein, in its coagulated state, i$ 
generally combined with some foreign substance, as 8alt> 
or an acid. Soluble casein may generally be obtained 
from curd spontaneously formed as milk becomes sour, 
in which state it is combined with acetic acid, by wash- 
ing the curd and neutralizing the acid with potassa. I 
omit the further particulars of Uie process, by which the 
casein is obtained pure and evaporated to dryness: in 
this state it forms a diaphanous mass, winch strongly 
resembles gum arable, may be long preserved without 
diange, and still retains its solubility in water. 

In solution, flavoured with sugar and aromalic% 
casein may be serviceable to invalids and convalescents 
as an article of food. It may be taken in its dry state 
on long voyages; forming with water, butter, and sugar^ 
an excellent autetitute for milk. 

Gaaein, when kept in a la^ist state, undergoes a i^e* 
cies of fermentation precisely analogous to that expe# 
rienced by gluten under the same circumstances. So 
dose is the resemblance in some respects, that it hat 
been employed^ as I have already stated in page 139, in 
the manufacture of bread with potato starph and wheat 
flonr. Casein is the baais and constitutes the diief bulk 



yGoogk 



272 ANIMAL FOOD. 

of cheese^ to which it imparts by a kind of fermentatkm 
a peculiar taste in old cheese admired by epicures. 

Having detailed the characteristics of the three chief 
proximate animal principles^ and which with fat make 
up nearly the entire substance of an animal, it is proper 
to add that recent experiments make it very probable, 
if not absolutely certain, that fibrin and albumen are 
but modifications of the same principle, as they are con- 
vertible into one another, and both have the closest 
analogy to casein, so that for general purposes it would 
almost suffice to speak of them as one animal principle, 
designating them, as Prout has done, by the term 
albuminous. Th*ey all have nitrogen or azote in their 
composition, and impart emphatically the peculiar pro- 
perties of animal matter for the purposes of nutrition. 

It is worthy of remark in this place, that the line of 
difference is not so clearly drawn between animal and 
vegetable substances used for food, as would at first 
appear. The resemblance of gluten to casein has been 
already mentioned^ and inferentially that of the former to 
fibrin and albumen may be admitted. Gelatin furnishes 
a sugar resembling the sugar of grapes, and by this con- 
version shows an analogy to starch, which, as we have 
seen, is convertible in such large proportion into sugar. 
Between vegetable albumen and animal albumen, the 
resemblance has been already noticed. Lactic, an ani- 
mal acid, is by many chemists regarded as a modification 
merely of the acetic. Fixed vegetable and animal oils ap- 
proximate also in many particulars. Both of them con- 
sist of two elements, stearine and elaine; both form soap, 
and both of them are wanting in azote. Milk yields 
sugar, which resembles that from vegetables, except in 
its not fermenting. 
' OsMAzoME. This is the flavouring element of animal 



yGoogk 



PBomrcTS ov milk. STS 

flndi, and abounds most ia that whidi is red add be# 
loi^ to older animals. The higher flavour of broths 
made of beef or mutton than t^ose of Teal and lamb is due 
to the presence of osmazome in the former^ in addition 
to the gelatin which predominates in the latter. This 
element dissolred in water constitutes the proper and 
relishing gravy of meat, and must not be confounded 
with the melted fat which is passed off as such by bad 
<^oks. Osmazome is regarded as the most stimulating 
dement of animal matter, and it has been compared to 
the aromatic or spices among vegetable substances. A 
nutritious powder or paste may be prepared as follows: 
dry osmazome, 1 oz.; dry gelatin, 4 oz.; gum arable, i; 
cloves and ground pepper, celery twigs, carrot seeds, of 
each twelve grains. By adding salt to this powder, it 
can readily be made into a pleasant and nourishing 
soup. 

As reference has been made already to one of the chief 
elements of milk, I may as well at once describe its 
other ones, and then the reader will be prepared to fol- 
low me without confusion in my subsequent remarks on 
the relative value in an alimentary point of view of the 
chief animal substances used for human food. The 
principal products and preparations of milk, at least for 
dietetic and medicinal purposes, are cream, butter, curds, 
cheese, and whey. When milk is left at rest, there is a 
collection formed on the surfoce which is called cream, 
and which consists principally of fotty or butyraoeous 
matter. If milk without prior change be subjected to 
continual agitation, the fatty globules coalesce and form 
butter; and when this is removed, the fluid part merely 
ef the milk remains. Agitation of the cream alone gives 
a larger proportion of butter. This fluid part or whey, 
holds in soUition the other remaining components of nulk. 



yGoogk 



374 AMIUAL rooiK 

viz: — the casein, die sugar of milk, and the salts. Caseio, 
separated in the manner already mentioned, leaves a 
sweetish fluid with a small proportion of saline matter or 
simple whey. Curd madefrom unskimmed milkentangles 
with it a certain quantity of the oily globules or butter, 
and in this state it furnishes a richer cheese than if it 
be made after the separation of the cream. In the first 
case casein is mixed with a butyraceous matter, and is 
oily and of high flavour; in the latter, it is harder, and 
has, imless very old, less distinctive taste. The fluid 
remaining after the separation of the butter by churning, 
and hence called butter-milk, may be called a whey, 
with particles of butter and casein mixed with it. If 
allowed to remain for a time, and especially in a some- 
what elevated temperature, it becomes acid by the 
evolution of acetic acid and of an animal acid called 
lactic, both of which give rise to sourness of the butter- 
milk. 

Cow's milk, from which the cream had been removed, 
was found by Berzelius to consist, in 100 parts, of 2.60 
of casein, with a portion of fatty matter, 3.50 of sugar 
of milk, with some earthy and saline matters; water 9i. 
The proportion of butter varies from three to four and 
a half per cent. 

It was, after observing that milk was composed of 
three chief ingredients, viz. saccharine, oily, and curdy 
or albuminous, that Dr. Prout was led gradually to the 
conclusion, that all the alimentary matters employed by 
man and the more perfect animals, might in fact be re- 
duced to the same three general heads. He has subse- 
quently extended this view, which,as expressive of really 
a natural arrangement, merits the favour that it receives 
from his contemporaries. Regarding fibrin and casein, 
and also gluten, as modifications of albumen, and gelatin 



yGoogk 



AQUEOUS ALIMSNTAmT PRINCIPLE. 375 

as a low mode of animalization, he ranks them in the 
albuminous division. Vegetable and animal oils, in- 
cluding butter, constitute the oify; and the saccharine 
or amylaceous group, include a great number and va* 
riety of vegetable substances as the cerealia, leguminosss, 
Sx.y the proximate principles of which are sugar and 
starch. There is yet another of what Dr. Prout calls 
the alimentary proximate or primary staminal prin* 
ciplesj viz. the aqueous. 

Water, this writer truely observes, constitutes not 
only the medium in which most organic operations are 
performed, but its elements, either as water or separate* 
ly, enter into the composition of every living organized 
being. The subject of water, therefore, in a physiologi- 
cal point of view, may be considered under two heads; 
as the medium on, or by means of which, all organic 
operations are performed, and as an alimentary prin- 
ciple. 

The proportion of water entering into the composi- 
tion of organized beings is so remarkable, as to appear 
almost incredible. Not only does the blood contain 
four-fifths of its weight in water, but even the parts of 
the body termed solidSf that is the muscular mass or 
flesh of which animals chiefly consist, contain in reality 
only about one-fourth of solid matter. According to an 
elaborate analysis of BerzeUus, the muscle of an animal 
contains 77 per cent, of water, and 23 per cent, of other 
matters or solids proper. We have ahready seen the 
large proportions of water in esculent roots, such as the 
potato, the beet, &c. As a farther illustration, we may 
mention a fact stated by Blumenbaoh, that a perfectly 
dry mununy of an adult Guanche, (one of the original 
inhabitants of Teneiiffo,) with all the muscles and rkh 



yGoogk 



S76 AiriMAL FOODu 

cera entire, did not exceed seven pounds and a half in 
weight 

The water thus constituting a large porticm of living 
animal bodies, is the medium by which all vital agen- 
cies are performed. In the blood, for instance, the solid, 
organized vital agencies are transported from one place 
to another; are arranged in the place desired; and are 
again finally removed and expelled from the body, 
chiefly by the agency of the water j^esent Water 
imparts, also, to the more solid constituents of the 
frame that peculiar flexibility and power of extension 
so characteristic of animal solids. The quantity of 
water they possess is continually changed by the ope* 
ration of organic bodies. The lungs, the skin, the act 
of drinking, the kidneys, all aflect it. In fine, water 
and its elements enter into all organic processes. 

Dr. Prom contends, and in the main successAiIIy, that 
a mixture of two, at least, if not of three, of the 
staminal principles is necessary to form an alimentary 
compound well adapted to man's use. *<The com- 
position of the substances by which animals are usoally 
nourished, favours the mixture of the primary staminal 
alimentary principles; since most of these substances 
are compounds, of at least two of the staminal princi- 
ples. Thus, most of the gramineous and herbaceois 
matters contain the saccharine or amylaceous, and the 
glutinous principles; while every part of an an&ml 
contains at least albumen (assuming here its general 
identity with fibrin), and oil. Perhaps, therefore, it is 
imposaible to name a substance constituting the food 
of the more perfect animals, which m not essentiaUy a 
natural compound of at least two, if not all the three 
gteat pciadples of aliment 3ut it is in the artificial 
food of man that we see this great principle of mixture 



yGoogk 



MILK A 0liKSRAL ALIMENT. 277 

strougly exemplified. He, dissatisfied with the spon- 
taneous productions of nature, culls from every source; 
and by the force of his reason, or rather of his instinct, 
forms in every possible manner, and under every dis- 
guise, the same great alimentary compound. This, 
after all his cooking and his art, how much soever he 
may be disinclined to believe it, is the sole object of hi» 
labour; and the more nearly his results approach to 
this object, the more nearly do they approach perfec- 
tion. Even in the utmost refinements of luxury, and 
in his choicest delicacies, the same great principle is at- 
tended to; and his sugar and flour, his eggs and but- 
ter, in all their various forms and combinations, are 
nothing more or less than disguised imitations of the 
great alimentary prototype, milkj as furnished to him 
by nature.^' {ProuVs Chtmistry^ Meteorology^ and 
the Function of Digestion: Amer. edit. p. 234.) 

In milk we find illustrations of the four great stami- 
nal principles, viz. the aqueous (as water) constituting 
nearly 90 per cent, of milk, the saccharine (sugar of 
milk), the oily (butter), and the albuminous (casein). 

} 9hall devote a few paragraphs to a notice of the UM 
hj man of this wideiy-difFused aliment. Milk is the 
chief animal principle added to his other food, by the 
Laplander within the Polar circle, and the Arab in the 
burning des^is of the South,— by the Tartar on the 
bleak table4and and Steppes of Asia, and by a no 
•mall proportion of the inhabitants of tlie chief eoun- 
Iries in Europe. The reindeer supplies milk to the 
Laplander.^who, on emergencies, eats' of its flesh also; 
the Tartar obtains this nutriment fipom his mares, and 
the Arabs from their camels, their sheep, sometimet^ 
from their goatt. The Yezeedes, a Turkoman tribe^ 
KriDg ctntfly bf tfmmelfeB in the moanteins ef Sbigar^ 
24 



yGoogk 



978 AlUMAL FOOB. 

who pasture their camels upon the Southern des^, 
fjaed chiefly upon the mitk^and sometimes upon the raw 
flesh of these animals. Of like fashion was the mode of 
living of the Numidians, described by Purehas, when he 
quaintly tells us, << their food is oftentimes patience with 
an empty belly, which when they fill, bread or meat 
after any sort, is absent. Only they have their camels' 
milk, whereof they drink a dishful next their heart." 

The number of cows kept in London and its environs, 
is 9,000, and their annual produce 28,000,000 quarts of 
milk, valued at 720,000/. sterling. 

Before proceeding to speak any farther of milk and 
its products, as aliment, it will be well to introduce the 
following tabular view of the several elements already 
described, as found in the milk of diflereut animals. 
The analysis is made by MM. 0. Henry and Chevallier. 







MILK OP THE 






Cow, 


An. 


Womtn, Goat, 


Ewe. 


Casein, 


4.48 


1.83 


1.53 4.03 


430 


Butter, 


3.13 


0.11 


3.55 3.33 


4.30 


Saggar of milk, 


4.77 


6.08 


6.50 5.38 


5.00 


VartoQs salu, 


0.60 


0.34 


0.45 0.58 


0.68 


Water, 


87.03 


91.65 


87.98 86.80 


85.63 


Total, 


100.00 


100.00 


100.00 100.00 


100.00 


Solid substances, 


12.98 


8.35 


13.00 13.20 


14.38 



The quantity of nutritive matter contained in milk, 
varies not only with the species, but with the indi- 
vidual, nay, with the same individual under different 
'Circumstances. The quality of human milk is affected 
by constitution, age, food, period after parturition, men- 
tal emotion, disease, the use of medicine, &e. Re- 
specting the kind of diet suitable to noises, Dr. Cullen 
9iake this emphatic declaration: ^I allege it to be a 
matter of experienoe, that snppodng tbe quantity of 



yGoogk 



CAUSES AFFSCTIVa MILK. 279 

liquid to be the same, nursed living entirely, or for the 
greater part, upon vegetable aliment, afford a greater 
quantity of milk, and of a more proper quality, than 
nurses living upon much animal food. This I venture 
to assert from the observations of fifty years." 

In order that good and pure milk be procured from 
the cow, the animal ought to be allowed a free range 
in the open air for at least a part of every day. The 
modifying influence of the food on the milk is shown in 
the better quality of this liquid in the spring and sum- 
mer than in winter, and in its flavour, as well as that 
of the butter, being senmMy affected by the cow eating 
certain articles, such as wild onion, &c. We should infer 
from these facts, even if direct proof were wanting, 
that the milk of the mother will be considerably mo- 
dified in its qualities by articles, both of food and medi- 
cine, which she herself hais used, and that the infant at 
her breast will be affected in consequence. "We can 
modtfy the colour of the milk by mixing saffron or 
madder with the food; the odour may be affected by 
various cruciferous and alliaceous plants; the taste may 
be altered by the use of bitters, as wormwood; and 
lastly, the medicinal effect may also be influenced." 
Drastic purgatives and opiates, respectively, taken by 
the nurse, will produce their characteristic effects on 
the child. Whatever modifies the secretion of milk, 
either by unduly exciting, as by gross stimulating food, 
or altering the quality of this liquid by distilled or fer- 
mented liquors of any kind, will injuriously affect the 
child. It is a co<mmon, but a most pernicious belief^ 
diat the habitual use of malt liquors, for example, will 
increase the flow of milk, and keep up the strength of 
the nursing mother. So far from this being the case, 
her digestion will be impaired, she . will be feverish^ 



yGoogk 



JdSO AKIMAL FOOD. 

and her milk neither as good 9or abundant as if she 
made water her sole drink. The child suffers in oon- 
sequettce. Thousands of children^ says Mr. Courtenay^ 
are cut off by convulsions, from the effects of these 
beverages on the mother.^ Mental emotions also affect 
the quality of the milk; and the child^s bowels are 
often disordered in consequence. The probability of 
diseased states of the system of the parent rendering 
the milk unhealthy, is so well and briefly set forth 
Jby Mr. Pereira, {Mat Med. p. 1407,) that I shall use 
bis language on the occasion. << Labillardii^e (Diet. 
Mat. Med. IV. 23) states, that the milk of a cow af- 
fected with a kind of tuberculous phthisis {pammel&re) 
contained seven times more phosphate of lime than 
usual. Dupuy (quoted by Andral, TVeat. on PathoL 
Jinat.; by Townshend & West, Vol. I. p. ^75) also 
speaks of the large quantity of calcareous matter in the 
milk of cows, in whose lungs abundant deposits of the 
same substance were found. Other morbid changes 
have been observed by Donn6, Robiquet and Lassaigne, 
and have been already alkided to. Now these are facts 
of the greatest moment, not only in reference to the fre- 
quency of disease in cows, and, therefore, to the pos- 
sible morbific character of their milk, but it is of con- 
siderable importance in reference to the milk of the 
human subject. I think with this statement before us, 
it is highly improper to allow a female, with any trace 
or suspicion of tuberculous disease, to suckle. Not 
that a few grains, more or less, of phosphate of lime in 
the milk, can probably do any injury to the child, but 
the fact once established, that the milk may be thns 
altered by diseas^, leads to the suspicion that soBie 

* See' on this point a note by the author of the present work 
in Dr. Combers work on Infancy, p. 161-d. 



yGoogk 



cAuvions.iK mrmsiNO. 961 

Otter i substances, not recognized by the physical or 
chemieal characters, may be in the milk: of diseased 
nurses, and may have an injurious influence on the 
child; and the suspicion does not confine itself to those 
affected with tuberculous diseases,-^other hereditary or 
constitutional affections may 'also be attended with 
altered conditions of the milk. This suspicion is 
strengthened by the common observation, that the 
milk of any nurses will not equally suit children. A 
child quite healthy and in good condition, will some- 
times, without any evident cause, fall off, and get into 
what is commonly called a bad condition, apparently 
ftom a change in the nurse. I am aware, that we can- 
not always refer this to any positively hurtful matter in 
milk. The quantity of nutritive matter in the same 
quantity of milk of two nurses may be very different: 
according to Payen, {Jourru de Chim. Mtd. Vol. IV. 
p. 118,) milk, with too much nutritive matter in it may 
disagree with the child. Another point worthy of at- 
tention, is the quantity of milk yielded in a given time. 
Payen says it varies in different women as much as 
from one to ten and a half.'' 

It hardly requires the testimony of medical authority 
or of philosophy of any kind, in favour of milk being 
regarded as the natural nutriment of the young of all the 
nuunmalia, including our own species; yet certain pre- 
judices, under the garb of shallow science, not unfre- 
quently interfere to prevent a result to which the emo- 
tions both of mother and offspring would of themselves 
inevitably tend. Under the most opposite pleas, foreign 
additions are made to the maternal supply: at one time 
the infant is said to be so feeble and puny as to require 
more nutriment than the mother can give it in the form of 
her own milk-, at another time, it is alleged that the child 

34* 



yGoogk 



JMi JOIIMAL VOOB. 

itsostroQg.and large^and socks so gxeedUyythat aha can* 
not supply its cravings. For the first three months after 
birth, a child wants and ought to hare no other food 
than that of its mother's or a healthy nurse^s milk; for 
the following six months^ the most that is required is a 
Tery small quantity of some farinaceous powder, either 
of wheat flour or of arrownroot, or tapioca, &c. boiled 
with sugar into a thin jelly, to which, if the supply from 
the breast is irregular or at all deficient, some firesh 
cow's milk should be added. During all the period 
mentioned, farinaceous food, with cow's milk, ought to 
be regarded as a substitute for the occasional defectiTe 
supply of the mother's milk, but never as a necessary 
addition to this latter when it is secreted in regular and 
adequately full supply. 

Even after the teeth appear, the food of children ou^t 
not to be more of an animal nature than is furnished 
in the elements of milk itself. These teeth are not the 
natural index of requirements for animal food, so much 
as of ability to masticate a greater variety of farinaoeons 
and other vegetable substances, including a moderate 
allowance of ripe fruit. 

A great number of persons seem to have no idea of 
any article being really substantial and nutritive food, 
unless it be in a solid state; and hence milk is by tbem 
regarded more as drink than aliment A slight giaoce 
at the analysis of milk ought to suffice for the removal 
of this error, and to show that milk is neither intended 
to be a drink after a meat repast, nor a preliminary for 
more substantial viands. It is a very healthful practice, 
in general, to breakfast on milk with bread in some form, 
less so to take butter with the bread, for then two por- 
tions of this animal oil are taken,— one free, and one 
combined with other elements in the milk. But a break- 
fast of this nature does not entitle a person to eat a 



yGoogk 



MILK Ul OiaOMIO JttSXASXS. MS 



heartier dinner of eMat then his tompeoion. or firieod 
wtio merely took toOee or tea and bread and butter for 
bis morning repast The reverse should be the practice. 
I have seen invalids wfao,baving been probably directed 
by their physocianSy to take milk daily, with the inten* 
tton, doubtless, in the mind of tbe^viser, that it should 
be the chief aliment, act as if the drinking of a bowl 
of milk was but a whetter, a medieinal introduction to 
{mrtaking of all the varieties of meat at table; In such 
instances as these, the sick man, instead of eating, as be 
obviously ought, less than those in full health, eats a 
great deal more than them, of the strongest animal food, 
and which would be fiir beyond the appetite and natural 
requirements of a ploughimi or a pavior. 

In nearly all chronic maladies, such as pulmonary 
consumption, gout, dyspepsia, and certain anomalous 
diseases of females, in wlikh a regnlatcid regimen oug^ 
to be persererad in for a length of time, milk is emitted 
to a preference as the nutrive bams of the aliment pve* 
scribed on these oocaaiDDs. Som^mes it disagrees with 
the stomach, on account of its butyraceous or oily prin*- 
ciple^ and then buttemulk will answer a good purposa 
According to the indications in other respects, this latter 
will be taken either soon after the churning, or after a 
longer period, when it is deddedly sour. If obtainaUe, 
asees' milk, in which the proportion of oily matter is 
smaller and of sugar greater, is better suited to the in* 
valid, whose stomach is irritable. We find, in some 
caaes, in whioli milk alone disorders the bowels, and 
causes pain and flatulence, that the addition of a very 
little farinaceous powder, as of arrow-root or ground rice, 
to the milk, obviates these disagreeable effiects. If th^ 
coldttess of milk be ineonveinent to some stomachs, -the 
addition of a little liot water removes tbie objection, and 



yGoogk 



984 JLllIMMiVOOB. 



bosides pvepavet il better^ m conHon, timn boUmgv«*-a 
proeess.often recomuiradod for nuiking it li^iter for 
digestioD. 

When it is deared to snbstknte a milk aliment for the 
supply from the breast, when tins is very deficient or en- 
tirely arrested, and when cironmstanoes prerent the pro- 
curing anothcrr nurse, fresh cow's milk, diluted with a 
third part of hot water, and a portion of loaf sugar dis- 
solved in it, will answer a rery good purpose. The whey, 
or watery part of the milk after the removal of the curd, 
makes a salutary and, if it be slightly acidulated, or the 
milk have been turned with buttermilk, making the two- 
milk whey, as it is called, a very refreshing beverage in 
slight cases of fever, or convalescence from diseases in 
general. 

A very limited quantity of milk will suffice, in the way 
of animal food, for the presevation of health, if an ade- 
quate amount of wholesome farinaceous, substance^ be 
Aumished at the same time. 

In all cases in which milk is used,-~either as a part 
of the daily food of the healthy, or dietetically for the 
invalid, — this liquid ought to be fresh and pure, pro- 
cured from healthy and well fod and exercised cows. 
<f Good milk should be quite liquid and homogeneous, 
not viscid; and should contain only spherical transparent 
globules, soluble in alkalies and ether, Aoxild not be- 
come thick when mixed with ammonia, and should form 
a fioculent precipitate by acjatie acid, but not be coagu- 
lated by heat. The rdatixre quantity of cream afbrded 
by milk, is estimated by a graduated glass tube, called 
a lactomtter. The changes produced in the quality 
of the milk, by diseasmi condition of the cows^ has re- 
cently attracted considereeUe attention in Paris, owing 
to the prevalence of a malady called the caeoie, among 



yGoogk 



TESTS OF QJJ/kLJTY OV MIUL— BUTTXR. M6 

tbe cows in that capital In New-York, a somewbat 
similar state of things was indicated, in detail, a few 
years ago, in the public papers; depending,aa was alleged^ 
and generally believed, on the cow's being fed with dis«* 
tillery slops. << The following are the essential morbid 
changes which have been reckoned in milk: want of ho- 
niogeneousness, imperfect mobility or liquidity,eapahilit]r 
of becoming thick or viscid, on the addition of ammoniay 
and presenting, when examined by the microscope, cer^ 
tain globules (agglutinated, tuberculated or mulberry'- 
like, mucous or pps globules,) not found in milk.'' 

If a milk aliment of a more nutritive kind be required 
than this liquid alone, it will be well to mix it with a 
decoction of some of the more reduced or less stimulating 
animal substances, such as a decoction of hartshorn 
sbarings, or veal or chicken broth, from which every 
portion of the fat has been carefully reinoved. Shavings 
of isinglass, boiled into a jelly, with milk, constitute an 
aliment of the same nature, with tbe recommendatioii 
of greater simplicity and purity. 

It is worthy of remark, for the benefit of certain in- 
valids with whom milk disagrees, that they will sonae^ 
times find cream sit better on their stomach. To give 
it a ftiU trial, butter ought to be abstained firom at tbe 
meal in which cream is taken with biead or other fmr 
naceous matters. 

BuTTSB, generally qpoken of as ooe of the constituents 
and proximate principles of milk, consists, itself, of three 
fisUty bodies, stearine^ elaine and butyrint. The latter 
substanoe yields three, odorous fatty acids, viz. buiyrie, 
capric and eaproio aeida. A small quantity of these 
acids exists in ordinary bolter, especially when it has 
been exposed to the air, and imparts to it its peculiar 
odotiF. Milk-butter is itoi so itoh aa eoeam-buiteri but 



yGoogk 



iS% AHIMAL rOO0. 

will keepniQoh longer sweet: when churned, as is ttsual 
in lai^e dairies, in a barrel'-chunij it is still poorer, but 
its quantity is increased sometimes double, as the milk 
is left quite exhausted. 

For the purpose of preserving butter, it is usually 
salted and packed in barrels. The proportion of salt is 
generally an ounce to a pound of butter. The follow- 
ing experiment is worth recording here. Thirty pounds 
of Lancashire butter, well salted with a double allow- 
ance of salt, were put into two mugs, and each covered 
with a pint and a half of 'brine. After keeping them in a 
cool cellar for thirteen months, they were examined, 
and found to be perfectly good; two years and five 
weeks having elapsed, the mugs were broken by an 
accident, and the butter being found to be perfectly 
good, the salt was washed out, and the butter sold for 
fresh butter in the Liverpool market. For exportation 
to hot climates, butter ought to be clarified before it is 
salted. For this purpose it is put into a lipped vessel^ 
and placed in another of water, which is to be gradu- 
ally heated until the butter is melted. It is to be kept 
melted for some time, to alk>w its albuminous or case- 
ous particleis to settle; the dear melted butter is then to 
be poured off from the dregs, and when sufficiently 
cooled it is salted. This clarified butter is paler than 
the fresh, and it acquires nearly the consistence of tal- 
low.' Butter is sometimes preserved with honey as a 
delicacy. It is first clarified, and being poured off from 
the dregs, an ounce of firm honey is added to each 
pound of bmter, and w^ll mixed with it. This miztare 
will keep for years without becoming rancid. 

The production and x^nsumption of butter are very 
great, as might be inferred (torn the countries in which 
atUmalsare kept, aad more ^ less domesticated with a 



yGoogk 



LARGE OOVI^VMPTVm OV BUTTER. 287 

view to procure their milk. The censnmpfion in Loo-* 
don is estimated by Mr* McOulloch, to be 16,880 tons, 
37,700,000 lbs., being at the rate of half a pound a 
week, or 26 lbs. a year, for eadb iodividiial, supposing 
the population to be 1,450,000. Jf to this be added 
4000 tons for the victualling of ships, and for other pur* 
poses, the total, in round numbers, will be 21,000 tons, 
or 47,040,000 lbs., which, at tenpeoce per pound, would 
be worth 1,960,000/. The average produce per cow of 
the butter dairies, is estimated, by Mr. Masshall, al 168 
pounds a year; so that supposing we are nearly right in 
the above estimates, about 280,000 cows will be re- 
quired to produce an adequate supply of butter for the 
London markets 

Butter forms a prominent article in the export trade 
of Ireland. Some of the best Irish butter brought to 
London, after being washed and repacked, is sold as 
Dorsetshire and Cambridge butter. . The quantity im- 
ported into Great Britain from Ireland, is little short of 
500,000 cwt,, and from foreign parts about 131,000cwt., 
of which Holland and Belgium furnish 92,000 cwt. 
The salt butter of Holland is superior to that of any 
other country. 

During a period of four years, upwards, of 600,000 
pounds of butter have been, on an average, exported 
annually from the United States, mostly to the W^ 
Indies and South America. The best butter that is put 
up, so as to keep for a considemUe time^ is that of 
Goshen, in New York. The fresh butter brouglu to 
the Philadelphia market, has the chartoter of being as 
good as any other of the same description. {McOuUoehf 
Com. Diet, •dm, edit.) 

In hot countries, butter isgenerallsf ttquid. . In Inditf 
il is deoominQit^ gbee^ and is mostly prspftr^dfrfMnUiet 



yGoogk 



88S AVIMAL TO&D, 

nttk of bviftdoes: it is usually conreyed in duppers or 
bodies made of hide, each of which contiiins from ten 
to forty gallons. Ohee is an article of considerable com- 
mercial importance in many parts of India. It is said 
to be prepared from coagulated acid milk, which is 
often kept two or thr0e days, by which time it is highly 
rancid. Mention has been made already of the exces- 
sive fondness of the Arabs for butter; and of their com- 
mon fashion of drinking every morning a coffee cnpftrt 
of melted batter, or ghee. On the score of nutrimen- 
tal value and preparation-^ for bodily labour and fa- 
tiguing march, this national allowance argues a much 
higher civilisation than the early dram, by whatever 
odd or pleasing name called, still too common in Eu- 
ropean and American communities. 

The dietetic utility of butter will depend very much 
on the quantity of other animal matter taken at the 
same meal, or on the same day with it. But if eaten 
with good> bread, neither hot nor too fresh, or other 
farinaceous substances, including the leguminous, and 
if these aliments make up either the entire meal or the 
gveater partof it, then ish butter wholesome. When added 
to meats, or taken with abundance of milk, it is less apt 
to agree with tbose wbcrae exercise is limited. It is more 
difficultly incorporated wkb farinaceous or other vegeta- 
ble food than the fibrinous or albuminous ot gelatinous 
part of animal substances; and it is more apt to offer 
resistance on being converted into good ch3rme thmi 
these. Henee we see why pastry is a bad food. 

Ohxbsb, another product of milk, being the curd 
separated fVom the whey, and pressed or hardened, has 
been used as an article of food from the earliest ages. 
Vast quiintities of it ave etttisumed in great Britain, and 
m inMt comio^ ia Buiiope. England is particalarlf 



yGoogk 



DIFFSRBKT KINDS OF CHSS8S. 289 

celebrated for the abundance and excellence of its cheese. 
From one county (Warwick), no less than 20,000 tons 
are sent annually to the London market, besides a very 
large supply to Birmingham. Large quantities of very 
good cheese are produced in Holland. In the manu- 
facture of Gonda cheese, which is reckoned the best 
made in Holland, muriatic (hydrochloric) acid is used 
instead of rennet in curdling the milk. This renders 
it pungent and preserves it from mites. Parmesan 
cheese, so called from Parma, in Italy, where it is manu- 
factured, is merely a skim-milk cheese, which owes its 
rich flavour to the fine herbage of the meadows along 
the Po, where the cows feed. The best Parmesan 
cheese is kept for three or four years, and none is ever 
carried to market till it be at least six months old. 
Swiss cheese, particularly that denominated Gruy^re, 
from the bailiwick of that name in the canton of Fri- 
bourg, is very celebrated. Gruydre cheeses are made of 
skimmed milk, and are flavoured with herbs. {APCuU 
loch, Com. Diet.) There is scarcely a district in France 
which has not its kind of cheese. Those most noted 
are the Neufchatel, the Sassenage, the Roquefort, and 
the Guise. In Liguria (Genoese territory), the cheese 
made of ewes' milk is preferred. The tiaplanders make 
a sort of cheese of the milk of the reindeer. 

According to Mr. Marshall, the average yearly pro- 
duce of cheese from the milk of a cow, in England, is 
from three to four cwt. or more than double the weight 
of the butter. The imports of cheese, in 1831, into Eng- 
land, amounted to 134,459 cwt., almost the whole of 
which came from Holland and Belgium. 

In the United S|ates, the quantity of cheese made is 
considerable, particularly in the northern and eastern 
states. The export of thia article, mainly to the West 
25 



yGoogk 



890 AmMAL FOOD. 

Indies and to British North America, has amounted to 
0650,000, {Comm, Diet Am. edit,); although in 1840 
the entire amount of both butter and cheese exported 
was only 8(210,750. 

There is hardly any Jilimentary substance, on the die- 
tetic Value and digestibility of which so much contrariety 
of opinion has been expressed, as in respect to cheese. 
The question has been mainly discussed^ however, by 
overfed citizens, dyspeptics, epicures and dyspepsia doc- 
tors. Large masses of mankind have eaten largely, 
from the earliest times, of cheese, and have made it their 
chief animal nutriment, without any doubts as to its 
being wholesome, and certainly with no gastric uneasi- 
ness or laborious digestion in consequence. The weight 
of medical testimony, at least of city doctors, from 
Celsus to Gregory, is adverse to the salubrity of cheese 
as a condirtient, or kind of dessert after dinner, or for 
supper; and they are right, considering the class whom 
they address— persons leading a civic life, who eat an 
abundance of meat, and who take inadequate exercise 
in the open air. It certainly is a great fallacy to be- 
lieve that a person after he has eaten to repletion of sub- 
stantial viands of all kinds, including a large proportion 
of boiled, roast and fried m^ats,can eat cheese with any 
advantage, or if at all, with any impunity. The practice 
would only t>e paralleled by his nibbling instead at the 
white of egg, hard boiled, with a little butter, or a thin 
slice of highly seasoned and dried beef or venison. Cheese 
after dinner, is a new dinner after the first. Cheese, 
atid especially toasted cheese, is albunoinons food with 
oil; for cheese consists of casein and butter, when it is 
made of cream, and even when made of i^nskimmed 
!mtfk, it still contains some butyraceons matter. Now, 
^food of this kind for supper, and befi)ie the hearty din- 



yGoogk 



S0O — ITS COMPOSITION. 991 

net of a few hours preceding has been digeaied, is too 
much for a common stomach; and either it will show its- 
uneasiness by pain/spasra, or feeling of weight at the 
epigastrium, or there will follow headache, or stricture 
across the chest, and other disagreeable effects con- 
nected with the latter stage of digestion. If a person 
of a gouty habit sup on cheese, he will not be sur* 
prised at an attack of gout in con^quence of this 
indulgence. But all this does not prove cheese to be 
unwholesome, but only that the time is ill chosen for it 
to be eaten. Let the citizen, like the ploughman, break- 
fast or even dine on bread and cheese, and he will have 
small cause of complaint. If he have any fears about 
the cheese being insoluble in his stomach, he may as well 
be apprised that vinegar is a solvent of this sutetanc^, but 
that alcohol and its combinations are not. This reminds 
me of the fact, that cheese and butter which have been 
salted, suit many stomachs better than the fresh articles. 

Egg. — The egg is another animal product, which is 
largely and extensively used for the food of mam* The 
relative weight of the different parts of the egg are, ac- 
cording to Dr. Frout, as follows: shell and membrant, 
(in a thousand parts) 106.9; albumeu or whiter 604.2; 
yelkf 2SS.9. 

The white or glaire {albumen), consists of two or 
three laminie; it is composed, according to Gmelin, of 
aHumen 12.0, muctis 2.7| salts 0.3, and water S5.0 per 
cent The coagulability of albumen by heat, distin- 
guishes it from casein. Albumen or giaire.(or ovalbu^ 
me»}f is distinguished from albumen of the serum of 
tb» blood (seralbumen) by its being coagtdated by 
ether. 

Yelh {tritellus ovi) ia a kind of yellow emulsion sus* 
peoded in waieae by means of album^eu, and inclosed in 



yGoogk 



299 ANIMAL FOOD. 

a sac called the yelk-bag. The yelk consists of yellow 
oilj with erystallizable/atj 28.75, albumen containing 
phosphorus^ 17.47, water 53.8 per cent. {Pereira^ Op. 
cit. p. 1389.) 

The nutritive properties of both the white and the 
yelk of the egg are generally known. Popular opinion, 
which attributes more nutrition to the latter, is borne 
out by the preceding analysis; but the belief of the more 
ready digestibility of the yelk is at variance with our 
knowledge of its composition. It is the part most fre- 
quently employed in emulsion with sugar and water, 
or wine, to impart nutriment and some feeling of strength 
to those exhausted by excessive labour or by protracted 
disease. Both the white and the yelk are more readily 
digested when in the soft than when in the hard state. 
The difference indeed is often as great between a soft 
boild egg and one that is hard boiled, as between any 
easily digestible article we might select, and one that 
is avowedly indigestible. 

The remarks which I made on the dietetic value of 
cheese will apply to eggs. Alone, soft-boiled, and eaten 
with bread or potatoes, or their equivalents, it is nutri- 
tive and digested with ease; but if hard boiled, or made 
a part of a meal in which animal flesh is freely used, 
then will eggs often be complained of, not because they 
are unwholesome, but because they needlessly augment 
the quantity of animal food at a meal. Mixed with 
flour and butter, or lard and sugar, they are largely used 
in the manufacture of cakes: in this state of combination 
they are, it seems to me, often oppressive to weak sto- 
machs. The common addition of butter to an egg whidi 
has been overdone, is adverse to peptic precepts, since 
it is adding one kind of animal oil to another kind, that 
of the yelk, and which is of itself more than can alwa3rs 
be well disposed of by a weak stomach. 



yGoogk 



XOOS XATXN IN LONDON. 293 

A Stranger to the great and diversified alimentary 
wants of a great city will be surprised to bear of tbe 
immense number of eggs taken to and consumed in 
London. In addition to the vast quantities brought 
to that capital from the country, there have been no 
fewer than 62,591,817 eggs imported from the conti- 
nent, chiefly from France^ for the use of the people of 
the metropolis and Brighton, in one year, (1832.) Those 
imported from France amount to 55,000,000. << At this 
moment, indeed," writes Mr. M'Culloch, << the trade in 
eggs forms a considerable branch of our commerce with 
France, and aflbrds constant employment to a number 
of small vessels." 



25* 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER XII. 

ANIMAL AND MIXED FOOD. 

Division of animal substances of the higher order — The fibrinous— 
beef, mutton, pork, duck, fowls, and venison. The gelatinous- 
veal, lamb, young poultry, certain fish— Animal food of a middle 
nature— Albuminous aliment — Modes of preparing meat for the 
table — Preservation of meat— Salt, an aid to digestion— Its early 
and general use— Whence procured— Cluantity consumed in some 
countries — Beef and pork, the chief meats salted — Dry salting and 
pickling— Cluantity of salt meat consumed— Irish exports— Salting 
of fish— Herring and cod salted— large exportations of— Alimen- 
tary value of salt meats — Scurvy, how avoided — Variety with 
simplicity of food— Mixed food— Experiments in Scotland— Ad- 
vantages of an abstinence from animal flesh — Mr. Stephens's ex- 
perience^Large consumption of meat not a test of civilization- 
Proportionate use of meat in London, Paris, Brussels, Glasgow, 
and Gteneva— -Portable soup— difierent kinds and preparation of— 
Mode of preserving meat unchanged for a term of years. 

My notice of the higher forms of organized animal 
substances used for food will be brief. They have been 
divided into the fibrinous, the gelatinous, and the albu- 
minous. Under the first head, in which fibrin predomi- 
nates, we have the flesh of those animals of adult age 
whose muscles are red and charged with osmazome. 
When dressed for the table, the flesh assumes a brownish 
or reddish-brown hue: it includes beef, mutton, venison, 
hare, geese, ducks, and pigeons. These are called the dark 
meats, and when the animal which furnished them was 



yGoogk 



RXLATIYS DIOESTIBILITT OW BXXV AND MUTTON. 295 

not too old; and the mutealar fibre is not too firm or hard, 
they supply abundant and stimulating nutriment. The 
chief art; and that wliich in common cookery is seldom 
attained; for preparing them for the table, is to preserve 
sufficient softness of fibre and natural juices. Of the 
various fashions, stewing is perhaps the best for a weak 
stomach. These meats furnish the most stimulating and 
nutritive soups, and both in their solid state and in the 
last mentioned mode of preparation, they are best adapt- 
ed to the phlegmatic, to those who encounter much 
labour and bodily fatigue in the open air, and in the 
case of convalescents where there is no fever, thirst, or 
hot skin, or suspicion of remaining inflammation of any 
organ. 

There are differences in the nutritive power as well 
as digestibility of some of these meats. Beef is regarded 
as more nourishing, and as enabling a person accustomed 
to flesh meat, to bear more fatigue and display more 
strength than if he were to eat mutton. Humphries, an 
English pugilist, was for a while fed on beef, but as he 
got too much flesh in consequence, he was obliged to 
change to mutton. On the other hand, I am fully per- 
suaded that beef is not nearly as digestible as mutton, 
by dyspeptics and other invalids; and hence, by these 
persons, whether they refer their sufferings directly to 
the organs' of digestion or to oppression at the chest 
and palpitation of the heart, or to violent headache, or 
remoter pain of the limbs, mutton should have the 
preference over beef. They who are predisposed to 
convulsions, or to apoplectic seizure, will incur no little 
danger by careless and imperfect mastication of beef, 
and swallowing the pieces without adequate comminu- 
tion. I have known fatal apoplexy to be brought on 
by a full meal of beef in an old person, who had scarcely 



yGoogk 



$96 ANIMAL roop. 

masticated tfae meat; and on another a fatal return of the 
disease from a similar cause, 

\yhen animal broth is allowable, the lean of good 
beef is better than that of mutton, as less greasy,, and 
with more osmazome iu its composition. 

Pork, classed with the fibrinous meats, has less tena- 
cious fibre, and more fat both external to the muscles 
and interposed between their filaments. Except the 
Jews and Mohammedans, the people, in most parts of 
the world, are eaters of the flesh of swine. Pork was 
considered, by the ancients, as the most wholesome and 
nourishing of meats; and hence, as Galen has remarked, 
after Hippocrates, it is the food best adapted to the strong 
and robust, and to those habituated to violent exercises. 
It formed the chief animal aliment of the athletse of 
Greece and Rome, who complained of a sensible diminu- 
tion of their strength, when they abandoned its use for 
any length of time. To the labourer in the open air, 
pork, in moderate quantities, is a nourishing and whole- 
some aliment, on condition that a full proportion of 
esculent roots, or of boiled cabbage,* or spinach, be 
eaten with it. The addition of a little vinegar to the 
salt used will not be amiss. But the artisan, and the 
citizen generally, who takes little out-door exercise, and 
whose digestion may, from other causes, be enfeebled, 
had better avoid pork. It not unfrequently purges those 
who are unaccustomed to its use. 

The gelatinous class of meats include those of the. 
young of most animals, in which ^ot only fibrin is in 
smaller proportion than in adults, but in which, also. 



* If the water from the first or half boilingf be thrown away, and 
the process completed in fMh water, much of the onpleaBanl fla* 
v»ttr and effects of boiled cabbage will be preyeattd* 



yGoogk 



GELATINOUS VOOD— POULTRY — FISH. 297 

osmazome is nearly wanting. Certain tendinous parts 
of animals, su6h as the feet and legs, furnish gelatine in 
large proportion, and hence they are used in the prepa- 
ration of jelly. Broths made of gelatinous meat, such as 
veal, should be boiled sufficiently long for the extraction 
of the gelatine, and until they become so charged with 
it that they readily gelatinize on cooling. Common 
veal broth, wanting the stimulus of osmazome, and 
having acquired more fat than gelatine, is hard of diges- 
tion by dyspeptics. But if the boiling be continued in 
a moderate quantity of water until the gelatine is freely 
exhausted, the broth, with a suitable addition of salt, is 
both digestible and nourishing. 

Lamb six months old, is, we are told, more tender 
than one two months old. 

Meats of this class are better adapted than the fibrinous 
to the young, the sanguine and the plethoric, to those 
recovering from fever and inflammatory diseases, and, 
in general, to those who are restricted from a free use 
of animal food. 

Of a middle nature between the fibrinous and gela- 
tinous,— that is, participating in both, — is the flesh of 
poultry and of certain fish: the fibres, though of a less 
decided colour, and even in some cases white, are akin 
to those of the dark meat, while the intervening tissue 
furnishes gelatin largely. Poultry, again, such as ca- 
pons, pullets and turkeys, varies in its dietetic effects, 
according as it is young and gelatinous, or old and more 
fibrinous and mixed with fat. Associated with the 
former, are sole, whiting, perch and carp, and with the 
latter, cod, mackerel, eel, shad and salmon. 

Poultry of middle age furnishes the most esteemed 
food to the chronic invalid and the convalescent from 
acute disease. The fetur ones are not so well adapted 



yGoogk 



298 ANIMAL VOOD. 

to dietetic uses as the others; and it ought to be enjoined 
on the cook, if she be required to make chicken broth, 
for example,4o remove the skin first, for there adheres 
to it a good deal of fat, which, if allowed to remain in the 
broth,^ would cause gastric uneasiness in the inyalid. In 
eating either roast or boiled fowl, of either the white or 
dark meats, a dyspeptic ought always to abstain from the 
^in. 

Albuminous aliment includes oysters, muscles, eggs, 
roe offish, brain, liver and blood, and sweet bread. 

There are various n[iodes of preparing animal flesh 
for alimentary use,— as by boiling, baking, roasting and 
stewing. The external or hard coat, formed by baking 
and roasting, and into which much fat has infiltrated and 
been converted into empyreuma, should be avoided by 
the invalid. By the conunon fashion of boiling meat for 
the table in a large quantity of water, and in open ves- 
sels, much of its flavour and juices are lost. In a close 
vessel, and in a small quantity of water, over a slow fire, 
the result is different: the texture of the meat is soft, and 
its flavour well preserved. 

Various plans have been adopted for preserving meat 
so as to render it fit for use at future periods and in dis- 
tant places. Of th^se, salting is the most common^ and 
that which has been practiced to the greatest extenL 
I ought to mention, in advance, that of all condimental 
additions to food, and particularly to animal food, salt is 
the most generally.employed. Its use in this way is 
very instrumental to healthy digestion; indeed, according 
to some physiologists, it is by its decomposition that the 
gastric juice derives the supply of hydrochloric {mu- 
riatic) acid, which is one of the chief solvents of food in 
the stomach. By both civilized and savage people, salt 
i3 used with their food^ and is in yirtue of what m^t 



yGoogk 



SALT — ITS UTILITY AND ABUNDANCE. 299 

be calted an instinctive appetite. The earliest notice of 
salt occurs in Genesis, six. 26, Lev. xi. 13, and in the 
Iliad, lib. ix. 214. Its moderate and regular use, is a 
•good preservative against intestinal worms. We are 
•told of difierent instances of persons who, from aversion 
to the use of salt, have been dreadfully affected with 
worms, its ejects on animals, particularly the rumi* 
nants, are very salutary: it gives more consistence to the 
fat and more ta«te to the meat of animals, fed with a 
view to their being killed for market. It also pre- 
vents in them the effects of rainy seasons and wet pas- 
turages. The sources of supply of this valuable article, 
are, first, from the water of the ocean, hence its com- 
mon name of sea or marine salt; second, from mines; 
and third, from saline springs. It is found in certain 
plants, and in the blood and other fluids of man. The 
chemical immes of salt are muriate or hydrochlorate of 
soda, a^nd, more recently, chloride of sodium. 

Tlie salt consumed in Great Britain, is procured by 
the evaporation of the water of brine isprings. The salt 
districts are in Cheshire, Staffordshire and Worcester- 
shire. The principal salt mines on the continent of 
Europe, are at Wielitsfca in Poland, Catalonia in Spain, 
Loowur in Hungary; to these may be added many 
places in Asia and Africa. In the United States, a large 
quantity of salt is procured from the saline springs, in Sa- 
Hna, state of New York, near Pittsburg in Penn., on 
the Kenhawa in Virginia, and elswhere, making a total 
of 7,00a,000 bushels. In addition to this home supply, 
a great deal is imported from Portugal and the Cape de 
Verds, where it is made from «ea water. Upwards of 
2,500,000 bushels were obtained from the Salina springs, 
in 1888, and about 2,000,000 from the Kenhawa springs. 

The consumption of salt in sohm parts of Europe and 



yGoogk 



300 ANIMAL rOOB. 

la the United States, is Lmmense. 'Hiat in Fraace is 
estimated at nineteen and a half pounds per individual 
anaually, and in England as high as twenty-two pounds 
for each person. Taking the population of Great Britain 
at 16,500,000 persons, at the time when the calculation 
was made, and this would require the consumption of 
363,000,000 pounds, or 161,000 tons. Exclusive of this 
immense home consumption, there is an annual export 
of 10,000,000 bushels, which, at 56 lbs. a bushel, is equal 
to 250,000 tons: — of this, m 1831, 2,130,000 bushels were 
sent to the United States. In 1840, our imports of this ar- 
ticle were valued at rather more than a million of dollars. 

All kinds of animal substances may be preserved by 
salt; though beef, pork and fish are the staples for this 
purpose. The pieces of the animal in general best suited 
for salting, are those which contain fewest of the large 
blood-vessels, and are most solid. Salting is performed 
in different ways, either by dry rubbing, or by immersing 
the meat in pickle previously prepared. Meat will keep 
longer by the first of these processes, or dry salting; but 
it is more altered in its desirable properties, than by the 
latter. 

Beef, and pork in a less degree, properly salted with 
salt alone, acquire a green colour, but if an ounce of 
saltpetre be allowed to each five pounds of salt, the 
muscular fibre takes on a fine red colour: this apparent 
improvement, however, is more than compensated for 
by its becoming harder and harsher to the taste, to cor- 
rect which a proportion of sugar or molasses is added; 
but the red colour, if desired, may be given without 
hardening the meat, by the addition of a little cochineal. 
Salted meat iseither preserved immersed in pickle inclose 
vessels, or dried, when it gets the name of bacon, ham, 
or hung beef. The drying of salt meat is effected either 



yGoogk 



BACON Aim SALT BEEF. 301 

by hanging it in a dry and well wanned place, or by 
exposing it at the same time to wood smoke, which gives 
it a peculiar flavour, much admired, as in the Virginia 
and Westphalia hams and Hamburgh beef, and which 
also tends to preserve it by the antiseptic action of the 
pjrroligneous acid. 

The quantity of bacon and hams exported from Ire- 
land and sent for the most part to England, is believed, 
by Mr. McCulloch, to amount to little less than 500,000 
cwt. a year. That of pork, salted and packed, may be 
estimated at 150,000 cwt. 

The consumption of salt beef is not nearly as great 
now, in England, as it was in former times, when it was 
usual for most iamilies, at least in the country, to supply 
themselves ^ith a stock of salt beef in October or No- 
vember, which served for their consumption until the 
ensuing summer. The universal establishment of mar- 
kets, where fresh beef may at all times be procured, 
renders the practice of salting beef no longer necessary. 
From considerations similar to those which existed in 
England, the agricultural part of the population in the 
United States, which includes, happily, by far the greater 
number of the whole, have recourse to the salting of 
pork, and, in the southern and western states, of subse- 
quently smoking it. The consumption of this kind of 
meat must be immense in this country. There is hardly 
a household south of the Potomac, in which, as a matter 
of course,^a quantity of pork is not cured by salting and 
smoking, every winter, adequate to the wants of the 
family, including often a large number of negro de- 
pendants, for the ensuing year. A similar provision of 
salted or pickled pork is made by the inhabitants of the 
northern section of the Union. 

The exporu of pickled pork, bacon, lard and Kvo bogs, 
26 



yGoogk 



908 ANIMAL I'OO]^. 

in lS40y from the United States, amounted to 1,894,894 
dollars; and of beef, tallov, bides and horned cattle, to 
693,373 dollars. The entire amountof animal provisioosy 
including butter and cheese, was about 2,750,000 dollars. 

The salting of fish constitutes a still more importuit 
and extensive branch of industry, and consequently con* 
tributes more to alimenl;, if we have reference to. the 
number of countries concerned in the trade, than the 
salting of meat. The chief fish caught and prcsserred in 
this way are herring, mackerel, cod, salmon and pilchard. 

To Beukels or Beukelson belongs the honour of the 
invention of pickling or salting herrings, in the latter 
part of the fourteenth century; and it was better timed 
gratitude than most sovereigns exhibit, when Charles Y. 
visited his grave and ordered a magnificent tomb to be 
erected to his memory. Since this early period, the 
Dutch have uniformly maintained their ascendency in 
the herring fishery; but owing to the Reformation, and 
the relaxed observance of Lent, in Catholic countries, 
the demand for herrings upon the continent, is less than 
it was three or four centuries ago. The total quantity of 
herrings cured by those engaged in the English herring 
fishery, in 1831, was within a few hundreds of 440/XM> 
barrels, of which 265,000 barrels were expoited. 

Cod is prepared in two difierent ways; that is, it is 
either gutted, salted, and then barrelled, in which slato 
it is denominated green or pickled cod, — or it is dried 
and cured, and then it is called dried cod. About 
eight-tenths of the dried fish exported firom Newfound* 
land by British subjects, are sent to Spain^ Portugal, and 
other continental nations; the rest goes to the West 
Indies and to Great Britain. In 1831, the American 
exports, resulting from the Newfoondland fisheries,, 
ivnoumed to 250,514 quintals of dried, and 108|770 of 



yGoogk 



SALT MaA!r-«acn&yT. , SOS 

pickled ood; their aggregate raltte bdng 1,050,000 dollars; 
In 1840, the amount was only equal to 541,000 dollars. 
The average annual produce of the French cod fishery^ 
from 182S to 1830, ^as 244,601 quintals. The quantity 
of codfish, particularly that which has been dried, ex* 
ported from Norway, is great. The average annual 
amount of mackerel taken by United States citizens and 
vessels, frtim 1831 to 1835, was 274,000 barrels. 

The alimentary effects of salt meat and fish will vary 
with the quantity of vegetable food taken at the same 
time, and the state of atmosphere in which the persons 
using it habitually live. The disease of scurvy, which 
was at one time attributed almost entirely to a diet of 
sahed animal matters, is fuDy as much developed by a 
faottiid atmosphere and defective or faulty vegetable ali- 
ment,as by tfa« cause popularly assigned. On board ship, 
if the crews have dry and well aired quarters, there is 
great probability of their being exempt from scurvy, even 
though their food should be, as far as relates to the ani* 
mat portion of it, entirely of salt meat. My own ob- 
servation induces me to believe, very firmly, that if the 
crews of vessels be supplied with fresh water in abund- 
ance, biscuit of good quality, and the customary allow- 
ance of beans or peas, with a nsodicum of molasses and 
vui^;ar^ they may eat daily, for a twelvemonth, of salt 
beef or salt fish, without suffering from scurvy, provided 
all the condition befote mentioned, of dry hammocks 
and dry dothing, when they turn in, be complied with. 
I have been on board a vessel which had a six months 
passage, all but seven days, from the Mediterranean 
to China, without my having had to treat a single case 
of scurvy, or even of disease complicated with scorbutic 
symptoms. The return passage in another vessel, with 
another crew, from Canton to Co wes, England, was five 



yGoogk 



304 AVIMAL AND BOXSD fOOD. 

months and a half; but we were equally dear of sctirvy 
as before. In both instances, the men were well fed and 
well treated— in the manner which I hare just indicated. 

Heartburn, waterbrash, and other dyspeptic symp- 
toms, are represented to be very common among those 
who eat much salted and smoked meats. That the ac- 
cusation is well founded, in many cases of persons of 
feeble powers of digestion, must be admitted; but in 
general, when not eaten in quantity, and if good bread 
and succulent vegetables be taken at the same time, 
this kind of aliment may be considered as well adapted, 
at any rate, to the active and laborious class of people, 
in both town and country, — by whom, in the United 
States, it is freely consumed. But although the quality 
be not objectionable, we must protest against the ex- 
cessive quantity used by the American people, both of 
this and other kinds of meat — the salted and the fresh. 

I have throughout this work advocated variety, and 
admit that a small portion of animal food is useful 
and proper to be added to the fuller supply of nutri- 
mental vegetable substances at the same time. The 
classes of persons to whom this cautious limitation 
more emphatically applies, are children and females, 
whose health and constitution are so often broken 
down by excessive alimentation and deficient exercise. 

In proof of the relatively small amount of food of 
any kind, and the fraction of reduced animal matter 
particularly, on which health can be well maintained, I 
shall introduce, in this place, the following particulars. 
They are derived from the " Fifth Report of the In- 
spectors of Prisons of Scotland," &c.: By Frederick 
Hill, 1840.* 

* This Extract was tent to the author of thii work by Bfr. 



yGoogk 



DIBTETIO SZnmiMENTS. 905 

<< During Ihe pteseot year, an txperiment in diet baa 
been made in the Glasgow Bridewell, wbicb^ although 
not carried on for a sufficient time, and under a suffi- 
ci^it varieiy of circumstances^ to render it safe to adopt 
as a guidci appears to tM to be of sufficient interest and 
importance to record, and to submit to your lordship's 
attention. Eight different forms of diet were prepared^ 
and a class of prisoners was placed on each diet, and 
copfined to it for one month. Before commencing, 
each prisoner was examined as to the state of his 
health, and weighed; and the same was done at the 
end of the experiment. The following were the dif- 
ferent diets, and the results of the various trials of them: 

First jKc/.— Cost, including cooking,* 2id. 

Break/asti'^Eight ounces of oatmeal, made into por- 
ridge,t with a pint of buttermilk. 

Dinner. — Three pounds of boiled potatoes, with salt. 

Supper.-^fiVQ ounces of oatmeal, made into por- 
ridge, with half a pint of buttermilk. 

Ten prisoners were put on this diet (five men and 
fire , boys), all under s^itence of confinement for two 
months, and all employed at light work (picking hair 
and cotton). At the beginning of the experiment, 
eight were in good health, and two in indifferent 



Combe, with a view to its insertion in that gentleman's ** Notes on 
the United States of America;" but it came too late. Mr. Combe 
win not, it is belieyed, be displeased at the use to which his docu- 
ment is now applied. 

* The cost of the different diets was calculated according to 
the prices of food at the time the experiment was made (Feb- 
ruary, 1840); at the ordinary prices of food, the cost would be 
lower. 

f Ponidge is oatmeal boiled in water, with as much salt as is 
wanted. ^ 

26* 



yGoogk 



3M MIXED rooD. 

health; at the end^ all were in good healthy and they 
had, on an average, gained more than four pounds 
each in weight, only one prisoner (a man) having lost 
in weight The greatest gain was nine pounds four 
ounces, and was made by one of the men; the prisoner 
who was reduced in weight had lost five pounds two 
ounces. 

Second Diet. — Cost, including cookings 2|rf. The 
only difference between this diet and the last, was the 
substitution of a third of a pint of skimmed milk at 
breakfast for a pint of buttermilk. 

Five young men and five young women were put 
upon this diet, some of whom had been in prison for 
several months. The men were employed at net- 
making; two of the women at weaving, and three of 
the women at winding and twisting. The result of the 
experiment on this diet was similar to that on the last, 
and was so far confirmatory of it. All were in good 
health at the beginning of the experiment, and all 
were in good health at the end. On an average, each 
prisoner gained rather more than four pounds in weight, 
— the greatest gain being twelve and a half pounds 
(by a woman), and the only loss (also a woman) being 
one pound. All the prisoners liked this diet; but they 
said they should prefer having it twice a week only, to 
having it every day. 

Third Diet. — Cost, including cooking, 2irf. This 
diet was the same as the first, excepting that the po- 
tatoes were baked instead of boiled. Three young 
men, two boys, and five young women were put upon 
this diet. Most of them had been in confinement 
about five months. The men and boys, and two of 
the women, were employed in weaving, and the three 
other women in winding and twisting. All were in 



yGoogk 



GLASaOW BEIDXWSLL. 307 

good health, both at the beginning and at the end of 
the experiment. There was, however, an average loss 
of one and a half pounds in weight, — the greatest loss 
being ten pounds, by a man, who had been in prison 
nearly five months; and the greatest gain, six and a 
half pounds, by a woman, who had been in prison about 
eight weeks. The prisoners all disliked the baked 
potatoes. 

Fourth Diet — Cost, including cooking, Sjrf. Break- 
fast and supper, the same as in the first diet. Dinner; 
potato-soup, containing two pounds of potatoes, and a 
quarter of a pound of meat. It should be remarked, 
that this is the first of the diets which contains any ani- 
mal food except miik. 

Twenty-one prisoners were put upon this diet, viz. 
sixteen males, varying in age from fifteen to twenty- 
three, and five females, whose ages varied from fourteen 
to twenty. The periods of previous confinements varied 
from one month to nearly ten months. Thirteen of the 
males and one of the females were employed in weav- 
ing, one male in warping, one male in shoemaking, and 
one male in netmaking; the other four (females) were 
employed in twisting. At the beginning of the experi- 
ment, twenty were in good health and one in indifferent 
health; at the end, these twenty continued in good 
health, and the remaining prisoner had improved in 
health. On the whole, however, the prisoners lost in 
weight, the average loss'being about one and a quarter 
pounds. The greatest loss was nine pounds, (by a 
male weaver, who had been in confinement about five 
months;) and the greatest gain was also nine pounds, 
(by a female weaver, who had also been in prison about 
five months.) Notwithstanding the greater expense 



yGoogk 



$08 MIXSD FOOH. 

of this diety aU the priflMers, uritbom exception, dbh 
Uked it. 

Fifth Diet. — Cost, induding cooking, 4ld. Break- 
fast and supper, the satne as in the fiiBt diet. Dinner, 
half a pound of meat and a pound of potatoes. 

Twenty prisoners (fifteen males and five females) 
were put iipon this diet With the ezceptioa of two 
men who were rather old, the ages of the male prisoners 
varied from twenty-four to forty-five; those of the fe- 
males from twenty-two to thirty-eight The periods of 
previous confinement varied from a fortnight to ten 
months. Nine of the male prisoners were employed in 
weaving, two in warping, one in shoemaking, and the 
others in sundry employments. One of the females 
was occupied in weaving, and the others in twisting. 
At the beginning of the experiment, fifteen of the pri- 
soners were in good health and five in indifferent health; 
at the end, those who had been in good health con- 
tinued to be so, and two who had been in indifferent 
health had improved; the health of the other three re- 
mained indifferent The average weight of the prison- 
ers was nearly the same at the end of the experiment 
as at the beginning; upon the whole, however, there 
was a slight loss. The greatest gain was seven pounds, 
(by a wohian employed in twisting, who had been in 
prison nearly five months;) and the greatest loss was 
eleven and a half pounds, by a man employed in weav- 
ing, who had been in prison about one month. 

This was the most expensive of all the diets; never- 
theless, it will be seen that its effects on the health of 
the prisoners was not so satisfactory as that of some of 
the other diets; nor was this diet generally liked by the 
prisoners, all in the class, except five, (four of whom 
were females,) preferring the ordinary prison diet, which, 



yGoogk 



UILK AND POTATOX8 — BROTH. 309 

with variations in quantity according to the different 
kinds of work, &c. is the same as the seventh diet. 

Sixth Diet — Cost, including cooking, Sd. 

Breakfast. — The same as in the first diet. 

Dinner. — One pound of bread. 

Supper, — One pound of potatoes. 

Ten prisoners, five males and five females, were put 
upon, this diet. All were young, their ages varying 
from thirteen to twenty, and only one being more than 
seventeen. The periods of previous confinement varied 
from six weeks to seven months, the average being 
four months. Excepting one, who was a shoemaker, 
all were employed at light kinds of work. All were in 
good health, both at the beginning and at the end of 
the experiments. On an average there was a gain in 
weight of two and three-quarter pounds per prisoner^ 
the greatest gain being nine pounds, (by a female,) and- 
the greatest loss six pounds, (by a shoemaker.) AD the 
prisoners, except two girls, preferred the ordinary prisoa 
diet to this diet. 

Seventh Diet. — Cost, including cooking, 3id. 

Breakfast and supper. — The same as in the first 
diet. 

Dinner.— Two pints of broth,* containing four ounces 
of barley and one ounce of bone, with vegetablei^ also 
eight ounces of bread. 

This, as already observed, is very much like the ordi- 
nary prison diet. 

Ten prisoners were put upon this diet, (five young 
men and five young women.) The periods of previous 
confinement varied from three weeks to nine months. 
One of the men was employed in shoemaking, two in 
cabinet-makings and two in winding. Four of the wa« 

• ADglic6**Soiip.'» 



yGoogk 



310 MDUBD FOOD. 

men were occapied in winding and one in sewing. All 
were in good health, both at the beginning and at the 
end of the experiment Upon the whole, (titre was a 
decrease in the average weight of the prisoners, but the 
decrease wa^i not quite half a pound each. The greatest 
loss was five and a half pounds, by a man wito had 
been in prison five months, and who had been employed 
in winding; and the greatest gain was seven pounds, 
by a Wfoman, who had also been in prison about five 
months, and who was Ulso employed in winding. 

Eighth Diei.-^Costf including cooking, l§d. 

Breail^asf.*^Tvro pounds of potatoes, boiled« 

Dinner. — Three pounds of potatoes, boiled. 

Supper. — One pound of potatoes, boiled. 

A class of ten young men and boys was put on this 
diet. All had been in confinement for short periods 
only, and all were employed at light work, teasing hsur. 
At the beginning of the experiment eight w^e in good 
health and two in indiffsrent health; at the end, the 
icight continued in good health, and the two who had 
been in mdifferent health had improved. There was, 
on an average, a gain in weight of nearly three and a 
half pounds per prisoner, the greatest gain being eight 
and a quarter poimds, by a young man, whose health 
had been indiibrentat the beginning of the experiment 
Only two prisoners lost at all in weight, and the quan- 
tity in each case was trifling. The prisoners all ex- 
pressed themselves quite satisfied with this diet, and re- 
gretted the change back again to the ordinary diet 

Upon the whole, the prisoners who were put upon 
these different diets increased in weight and improved 
in health, the females improving most in health, and 
gaining most in weight How far any one of these 
diets would prove to be superior to the others in a long 



yGoogk 



MONKISH KBanaas at hount sinai. 31 1 

experim^ty and with prisoners of different ages, em- 
ployed at different kinds of work, and confined for dif- 
ferent periods, I cannot say; but so for as a trial of one 
montb can be depended upon, it would appear tbat the 
cheaper diets,.and those contaimng no other animal food 
than milk, are the best. There can, however, be no 
doubt that,, whatever diet be chosen, whe^er one with- 
out meat or not, it should allow of frequent changes, 
giying a preference to each article of food in its season/' 

To the same purport, the: advantages of a limited 
quantity of reduced food, that is, of vegetable, with a 
very smalt proportion of animal substances, and under 
different circumstances, is the testimony of Mr. Stephens, 
who is'certainly no ascetic. The passage to which I 
refer is in Chapter XVI. of his entertaining work, 
entitled,^-/n€i(]fen/^ of Travel in Egypt, Arabia 
Petrasaj and the Holy Land; and occurs in his remarks 
on the monks at the convent of Mount Sinai. 

"Their discipline,'' says Mn S., "was not rigid, save 
in one particular, and that a matter in regard to which 
there, has been much discussion with us; they never ate 
meat; no animal food of any kind is permitted to enter 
the walls of the convent During all the various periods 
of their abode in the convent, some thirty, some forty, 
and one more than seventy-five years, not one of them 
had eaten a particle of animal food; and yet I never saw 
more heakhy-looking men. Hardier men I have seen, 
for they are indolent in their habits, take but Kttle exer- 
cise, and in most cases show a strong disposition to cor- 
pulency; but I had some little opportunity of testing 
their ability to endure fatigue; and, though the superior 
soon walked himself out of breath, the monk who guided 
us up the mountain, and who was more than sixty years 
old, when he descended, after a^ hard day's labour. 



yGoogk 



313 ANIMAL AND MIXXD FOOD. 

seemed less tired than either Paul or myself. I am aware 
that climate may make a difference; but, from my own 
observation and experience, I am perfectly satisfied that, 
even in our climate, invalids and persons of sedentary 
habits, and, indeed, all except labouring men, would be 
much benefited by a total abstinence from animal food. 
I have travelled for a week at a time, night and day, 
not under the mild sky of the East, but in the rough 
climate of Russia, and found myself perfectly able to 
endure the fatigue upon bread and milk diet; and I have 
been told that the Tartars, who ride post from Constan- 
tinople to Bagdad in an incredibly short time, never 
sleeping, except on horseback, during the whole of their 
immense journey, rigidly abstain from anything more 
solid and nutritious than eggs." 

It so hs^ppens that the greatest consumers of meat in 
civilized countries are inhabitants of the cities, — the 
very class of persons, who are prevented, in general, 
from taking that exercise in the open air, or working 
under a similar exposure, by which alone the bad 
effects of this kind of gross alimentation can be obviated. 
Mr. McCuUoch seems inclined to make the increased 
consumption of animal food a kind of evidence if not 
test of progressive civilization; but the English, from the 
time of Julius Caesar, always indicated a marked pre- 
ference for beef and other meat, and their fondness for, 
and consumption of such aliment at this time may be 
regarded as an original penchant of the same nature 
as some other longings of their Anglo-Saxon de- 
scendants in both hemispheres; such, for instance, as 
that of appropriating to themselves the lands of other 
people^ whether they. are on the Ind or beyond the 
Ganges, in New Holland or in Texas and Mexico. The 
inhabitants of the^Janos in Caraocas, and of the Pam* 



yGoogk 



MEAT £ATEN IM BN6LAND. 313 

pas of La Plata are greater beef-eaters than the repre- 
sented wisdom of the Londoners, in Common Council; 
but yet we cannot say much of either the actual or pro- 
gressive civilization of these people. 

Some idea may be formed of the great attention given 
by the English to the raising of cattle, for the dairy and 
the supply of animal flesh, as well as of horses, &c. for 
draught and locomotion, from the proportion of land in 
pasturage. Mr. Marshall* shows, after a tabular state- 
ment of the superficies of each county in England and 
Wales, and the quantity of land for pasturage and til- 
lage in each, that the entire amount in both these last 
mentioned countries is, in iitlage^ 10^661,000 statute 
acres, — in past lire j 1 5,869, 120^ and in woods and un- 
produciive, &c. 10,125,050. 

The amount of cattle annually slaughtered in Great 
Britain (England, Wales, and Scotland,) for the use 
of the inhabitants, is estimated by Mr. McCuUoch at 
1,275,000. Assuming the population of London to be 
1,450,000, and the entire amount of meat consumed in 
this capital being 154,434,850 lbs., the annual consump- 
tion of butcher's meat is, this gentleman thinks, very 
near 107 pounds for each individual, young and old. 
The estimate of Mr. Middleton goes far beyond this: 
he supposes it to be, exclusive of fish and poultry, 234 
lbs. for every individual. According to Mr. Chabral, 
the consumption of butcher's meat in Paris amounts to 
between 85 and 86 lbs, for each individual. Another 
estimate (see Bowring, Com. Report on Switzerland) 
makes it 93 lbs. At Brussels, the consumption is sup- 
posed to average 89 lbs. for each person. In Glasgaw, 

* Digest of all tbe accounts relating to the popolation, produc- 
tiont, revmae, te. of Great Britain and Ireland- 
27 



yGoogk 



314 AKIICAL FOOB. 

the use of butcher's meat is in neariy the same propoi^ 
tion as it is in London. In Geneva (city),4t is the 
highest, being 118 lbs. for each individualy— or for the 
entire population of 24,000 inhabitants, 3,068,170 lbs. 
of beef, veal, mutton and pork. 

Allusion has been already made to the preparation 
of gelatin, called portable soup. This is more readily 
procured, by digesting the bones in hydrochloric acid, 
so as to extract the earthy matter (phosphate of liaae], 
and then by boiling the residue in water under pres- 
sure. This process, by the benerolent exertions of 
M. D'Arcet, in Paris, has been carried on to a great 
extent, with a view of furnishing the poor with animal 
nutriment at a small cost. But without the addition of 
some fatty matter, such as lard, and also osmazome, 
this much-lauded gelatin is a rery indifferent food. 
The introduction of some leguminous seeds, and a little 
onion into the gelatin soup, gives it a higher flavour, 
and the beans or peas increase its nutrimental properties. 

The following is a better, and more generally used, 
kind of portable soup for long voyages: Beef and 
gelatinous parts, in the proportion of twelve pounds 
of beef, ten pounds of mutton, four calves-feet, tinree 
fillets of veal, are to be boiled in water, as in the 
common way of preparing meat«soup for the table, 
every now and then skimming off the &t until the soup 
possesses the requisite flavour. It is then to be allowed 
to cool, and is better skimmed at this time than before: 
whites of egg are to be added to clarify it, and afterwanfe 
it is to be slightly boiled. The liquor is tlien to be strained 
through flannel, and gradually evaporated, in the water 
bath, to the consistence of a very thick paste, which is to 
be spread rather thin upon a smooth stone,, then cut into 
cakes, and, lastly, dried in a etave until it beconaea btitds. 



yGoogk 



MEANS 07 PBE8XAYXNO M£AT. 315 

These cakes consist of gelattn aad osmazome, and are 
of coarse quite nutritive: they will Iceep for y^ars, if 
carefully put away in boxes and protected from the air. 
When intended to be used, nothing more is required 
than to dissolve a sufficient quantity in boiling water, 
which, with the addition of salt, makes at once a 
palatable soup. Fowls, as hens and turkeys, may enter 
into the composition of these cakes; or, if a cheaper 
compound be required, the gelatinous portion may be 
increased by the addition of bones, prepared in the 
manner already specified. 

Animal food of every kind, and even the most delicate 
vegetables, may be preserved unchanged, if heated to 
the temperature of boiling water, in vessels from which 
the air is completely excluded. Food, thus prepared, 
has been kept for fifteen years; and upon opening the 
vessels, after this long time, it has been found as fresh 
and well-flavoured as wten originally put in them. The 
process is as follows:— 

Let the substance to be preserved be first parboiled, 
or rather somewhat more^ the bones of the meat being 
previously removed. Put the meat into a tin cylinder, 
fill up the vessel with seasoned rich soup, and then solder 
on the lid, pierced with a small hole. When this has 
been done, let the tin vessel thus prepared be placed in 
brine and heated to the boiling point, to complete the 
cooking df the meat. The hole of the lid is now to be 
closed by soldering, whilst the air is rarefied. The 
vessel is then allowed to cool, and from the diminution 
of volume, in consequence of the reduction of tem- 
perature, both ends of the cylinder are pressed inv^ards 
and become concave. The tin cases, thus hermetically 
sealed, are exposed in a test-chamber, for at least a 
isootb, to a temperature above what they are ever 



yGoogk 



316 ANIBCAL FOOD. 

likely to encounter; from 90° to 110° F. If the process 
has failed, putrefaction takes place, and gas is evolved, 
which will cause the ends of the case to bulg€, so as to 
render them convex, insteaiof concave. But the con- 
tents of those cases which stand the test will infallibly 
keep perfectly sweet and good in any climate, and for 
any number of years. If there be any taint about the 
meat when put up, it inevitably ferments, and is de- 
tected in the proving process. — XJrt^s Diet. ofAr.ts and 
Manvfactures, 

There is yet one other means of preserving parts of 
animal flesh, which is quite general in some countries, 
as Germany, and, to a certain extent, common in a 
great many. It is by cutting up or mincing different 
parts of the animal, adding savoury herbs and spices, 
and pressing the whole into masses of various sizes, 
often into the clean intestines of animals, and then 
smoked. To ' this compound the term sausage is ap- 
plied. Blood-sausages, usually called black-puddings, 
made of bacon and coagulated blood, are among the 
coarsest and least digestible variety. Sausages some- 
times undergo a modified putrefaction, and become an 
irritant poison. Various accounts have been given of 
the sausage poison by Drs. Kerner, Daun, and Horn. 
It has, ajt various times, committed great ravages in 
Germany, especially in the Wirtemberg territories, 
wljere 234 cases of poisoning with it occurred between 
the years 1793 and 1827; and of that number, no less 
than 110 proved fatal. Those sausages only become 
poisonous, which have been boiled before being salted 
and hung up, or when the spices and salt are deficient, 
and particularly when they are smoked too late or not 
sufficiently. They are poisonous only at a particular 
stage of decay, and cease to be so when putrefaction 



yGoogk 



POISONED SAUSAGES AND CHEESE. 317 

has advanced so far that sulphuretted hydrogen is 
evolved. The central part is often poisonous wheii the 
surface is wholesome.* (See Christison on Poisons^ 
p. 585-8: 3d edit.; and Liebig, Organ. Chem. p. 307-8.) 
Cheese, also, on occasions, becomes poisonous, with- 
out any peculiarity in its appearance, taste or smell to 
indicate such a property. The symptoms produced by 
it are nearly the same with those caused by the poi- 
sonous sausage. They constitute various degrees and 
combinations of gastro-enteric inflammation. In the 
most severe cases, the quantity taken did not exceed 
four ounces, and was sometimes only an ounce. la 
some of the poisonous cheeses noticed, *< the curd, be- 
fore being salted, is left for some time in a heap to fer- 
ment, in consequence of which it becomes sour, and 
afterwards ripens faster. But if the milk has been 
curdled with vinegar,— if the acid liquor, formed while 
it ferments, is not carefully drained off,— if the fer- 
mentation is allowed to go too far, — if too little salt 
was used to preserve the curd, or if iour has been 
mixed with the curd, the subsequent ripening or decay- 
ing of the cheese follows a peculiar course, and a con- 
siderable excess of caseic acid is formed, as well as 
some sebacic acid.** {Christison, Op. cit.) 

* The person poisoned by putrefied tausag^s snffers from a 
gradual wasting of mascolar fibre* and of all the constitoents of 
the body similarly composed: he becomes much emaciated, dries 
to a complete mammy and finally dies. The bodj is stiff, as if 
frozen, mud is not sobjeet to pntrefactioo. During the progress of 
the disease, the salira becomes Tiscouf and acquiies an offensive 
smell. 

27* 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER XIII. 

DRINKS. 

Water the basis of all drihks — Its importance in organized life- 
Thirst only to be allayed by water, or drinks chiefly watery — In- 
stinct always craves water — Is the only fitting drink — Its restora- 
tive powerSj—conlrasted with alcohol— Water of various degrees 
of purity — Means of clarifying water— Zinc roofs deteriorate 
water flowing from them— Hippocrates and Dr. Gregory's opinion 
respecting water — conditions adapting it to all persons, at all 
times— Temperature^— cold often beneficial— Water is nutrimental 
— Drinks, made of various acids, fruits, &c. added to water 
— Simple, saccharine, gummy, and bitter drinks— Conditions for 
a drink being salutary — Tea, its varieties, — first use in England; — 
consumption of, at this time. In England and United States— Com- 
position and properties of tea;— when it is detrimental. — Coffee, — 
its native country, — different varieties of, — amount of its pro- 
duction and consumption, — its first use In France and England — 
Is aflected by other substances near it — Composition and properties 
of raw and of roasted coffee — Cases in which coffee is beneficial, 
and in which injurious. 

Drinks, on which I shall now make some observa- 
tions, are either pf pure water or have water enter 
into their composition. Even those most inimical to 
health and' the di^harge of the functions of the living 
frame, or the alcoholic, consist, in good part, of water. 
But for this salutary dilution of their strength, alcoholic 
liquors, when drunk, would prove almost instanta- 
neously poisonous. Of the continual necessity of the 



yGoogk 



WATER NECESSARY TO ORGANIZED LIFE. 319 

human^ as indeed of every organized living body, for 
a supply of water, the reader has been able already to 
form an idea, from remarks in a preceding chapter, 
on the aqueous principle of food. Vitality cannot 
be evinced, by a manifestation- of any of its proper- 
ties, in vegetable or animal structure, without the pre- 
sence of water, which forms so large a proportion of 
the sap of plants and the blood of animals, and enters 
into the composition of all the vegetable and animal 
substances used for food. Digestion cannot be carried 
on in any of its stages without a due, and that is a 
large, proportion of water. Without this liquid, the 
alimentary matter could not be reduced to chyme, nor 
the chyme furnish chyle, nor the chylq become blood. 
By it is this vitalizing fluid fitted to flow in its vessels, 
and be conveyed to all the organs and tissues, in 
order to deposit in them their appropriate materials for 
growth and renovation. Largely introduced into the 
body for its support and vitality, water is also largely 
given out in the various secretions. It is indispen- 
sably necessary for a balance of the functions to be 
preserved. ^ 

Thirst can only be allayed by water, or drinks 
mainly composed of water, with the addition to it, in a 
small degree, of some other principle, acid, saccharine, 
mucilaginous, or sometimes bitter. Whenever man is 
left to the cravings of the instinct of preservation of 
his frame, as when wandering in the desert, or on a 
wrecked vessel, or tossing about with fever, he snatches 
at water as the only beverage to quench his thirst, 
cool his system^ and renovate his decaying strength. 
Next to the nutritive fluid furnished by the maternal 
bosom, water is the one taken with avidity by the 
mkxAf as, if left to bis primitive taste, it ever would be 



yGoogk 



320 DRIVES. 

by adult man; and aven he, who ia the odadDess c^ hi* 
aveQing rerel driirics deep of the iatoxbating bowl, 
and stoutly denies the fitness of water as a beverage, 
will, on the following morning, entreat for and elasp 
with eagerness the full pitcher of this liquid, which a 
few hours before he had so insolently derided. Both 
instinct and recovered reason now suggest the choice of 
the proper beverage; and, but for the curse of imitation 
and evil example, their joint influence could never be 
mistaken. 

When we say that water is the only fitting drink for 
man's daily and habitual use, we are sustained by the 
fects of the case. Water is the only liquid which is 
essential to the formation, development, and support of 
bis, frame: it is equal to all the exigencies of thirst, for 
the relief of present inconvenience, and of dilution, by 
mixing with his blood and other fluids, to prevent far- 
ther suffering and disease. Water is found in all cli- 
mates and habitable regions of the earth; and Provi- 
dence has nowhere offiered in fountain, stream or well, 
in river or in lake, any liquid as a substitute for water. 
To be the universal beverage, it ought to be, as it is, 
everywhere attainable, and adequate to all our natural 
wants, — of appetite, growth, bodily and mental exer- 
cise, and activity. Even when the health suffers, and 
the body and mind are ill at ease, where is the restora- 
tive liquid or agent of any kind which can revive and 
renovate like water, — whether taken alone, in its purity, 
or with some slight saline and mineral impregnation. 
It is the beneficent menstruum and conductor of me- 
dicinal matter into the blood; and even when they 
are refused entrance, it readily finds its way, and not 
seldom accomplishes the cure for which they are lauded. 
How different the case with alcohol If it is the 



yGoogk 



MEANS OF F0RIFTIK6 WATER. 321 

struum of medicinal substances, — it soon abandons them, 
and can neither obtain for them entrance, nor find its 
own way into the blood; and if in strange arid anomal- 
ous cases it even is introduced, its action is deleterious, 
and, if in quantity, is soon deadly. It does not form a 
constituent part of any tissue or of any fluid in the 
healthy body; it retards, in place of aiding, those series 
of changes which the aliment undergoes before it is 
converted into blood: it is perturbating always, and de- 
leterious generally to the functions, whether they be 
merely of nutrition, or those by which man is enabled 
to speculate on his own situation, and to fulfil his higher 
destiny. 

Water, although it is found in all regions of the 
earth, is far from being equally good in all,— as when 
it bubbles up from the mountain spring, or is distilled 
from the clouds in the shape of rain. The two most 
common changes which it undergoes adverse to its culi- 
nary uses are, 1, owing to the large addition and mix- 
ture of earthy matters, by which it becomes turbid or 
muddy; 2, owing to its impregnation, and consequently 
unpleasant taste, by the solution in it of saline matters, 
and sometimes of gases. By rest, the earthy matters, 
which were merely suspended in the water, will mostly 
subside, and leave it comparatively clear; but a still more 
efllcient means of clarifying it, is by filtering. There is 
a great variety of processes for attaining this object; 
but all are founded on the same principle, viz. the in- 
terposition of bodies, in the passage of the w^ter, 
through which it parts with the foreign matters that 
are merely suspended or imperfectly mixed with it. 
The separation, therefore, is mechanical. A common 
instrument for the purpose is a filtering stone, suffix 
ciently porous to allow of the percolation of water 



yGoogk 



through it, but retentive of the grosser particles and 
impurities. Of the like nature^ but, in some respects, 
better, because allowing of a complete removal of the 
impurities which obstruct the passage of water through 
the filter, when it has been some time in use, is the 
following simple contrivance: A large earthen funnel, 
or stone bottle with the bottom beaten out, may have 
its neck loosely stopped with small stones, over which 
smaller may be placed, supporting layers of gravel in- 
creasing in fineness, and, lastly, covered to the depth of 
a few inches with fine sand, all thoroughly cleaned by 
washing. This apparatus may always be renewed, by 
taking out and washing the upper stratum of sand. A 
better method, again, is to filtrate by ascension: — this is 
done by having two jars, communicating together at the 
bottom; one contains the gravel, sand, &c; in the other, 
the turbid water is poured, which finds its way into the 
second, and, rising through the filtering matters, conies 
up quite clear. By means analogous to these, but on a 
large scale, river water is purified for the use of the 
inhabitants at Paris, Glasgow, Paisley, Chelsea, and 
other places. An improved apparatus consists of a 
small box, lined with lead, and having at its lower part 
charcoal between two layers of sand. The passage of 
the water through this filter, is accelerated by artificial 
pressure, by whieh, from an equal body and surface of 
water, seventeen times the quantity can be passed as 
through a common filter in the same time. (wfnn. 
d?Hyg. Sic. t. XXI, p. 230-1.) The nauseous odour 
and disagreeable taste imparted to water by vegetable 
or deeayed substances, or animalcule, are removed by 
filtration,— through animal charcoal, or by common fil- 
tration and subsequent boiling. 

In many places where both spring and river water 
are deficient, rain water is saved by the inhabitants in 



yGoogk 



CLARIFYING THB WATERS OF THE NILE. S2d 

large cisterns for the purpose. At sea, when the regular 
supply of water runs out, Recourse may be had, if fa- 
vouring showers fall, to catch the rain, as it descends, 
on a sail spread horizontally midship; the centre of the 
sail being pressed downwards by a weight of any kind, 
ao as to give it a conical shape. From this dependent 
and projectiBg part, the water drops through the can^ 
rass, and is recehred in a proper vessel beneath. Re- 
course has been had also to distillation of sea-water^ 
with more or less success, and by apparatus of more or 
less simplicity. Its empyreumatic taste is prevented by 
the passage of the vapour from the still through animal 
charcoal. 

The Egyptians clarify the water of the Nile, by put- 
ting almonds into it. Into an earthen jar filled with 
river water, a person introduces his arm and rubs the 
inside of the vessel with an almond paste in all direc- 
tions, until a prescribed portion has been rubbed away: 
the inside of the jar being rough focilitates this opera- 
tion. In this process the almond forms a kind of emul- 
sion by its oil uniting with the earth of the water, and thus 
causes an imperfect precipitate. In Sennaar, Dongola, 
and in Nubia, beans and even castor oil seeds are used 
instead of the almond. M. D'Arcet, after describing 
the above, and the common method of filtration by fiU 
fering stones, next details a plan which he found more 
sncoessful in clarifying Nile water. It consists in the 
introduction of a solution of alum or of the powder 
itself, in the proportion of a quarter or even half a 
grain to a quart of water. {Jinn. cPHygieney &c. t 
lY, p. 977-*8l.) This means had ahready been used 
wi^ success by the father of M. D'Arcet, in purifying 
Ae water of the Seine, at Paris. The Chinese had long 
been in (he practice lof clarifying the turbid water of 
^heir rivers, by stirritig the fluid which has been drawn. 



yGoogk 



324 DBIHKS. 

with a bamboo cane, into the* hollow joint at the end of 
which a piece of alum had been introduced. 

It is less easy to correct the taste of water which is 
impregnated with saline and mineral substances, such 
as common salt, and salts of lime, sulphur and iron. 
Fortunately, however, these waters are not found to be 
detrimental to health, and the people using them soon 
become accustomed to their peculiar taste. Where the 
water is impregnated with earthy or mineral carbonates, 
boiling will, to a certain extent, decompose these, and 
cause a precipitate to the bottom of the vessel; and in 
this way correct the unpleasant taste, and prevent in a 
measure the inconveniences to which those unaccus- 
tomed to them would otherwise be subjected. 

Various methods were recommended and practised 
for purifying the water on board ship, which, after a 
time, becomes offensive to both smell and taste. One 
of the simplest and easiest is to expose the water to 
the air, by increasing its surface or by agitating and 
dividing it in the air by the aid of machinery. Char- 
ring the inside of the water casks was another approved 
method. But that which is now general in vessels of 
,war, and in many merchantmen^ is to put the water for 
the voyage in large iron tanks. . The only recognisable 
change is an oxidation of the inside of the tank, and 
{sometimes a slight ferruginous taste imparted to the 
water. The presence of iron seems to be necessary to 
the preservation of the purity of the water. When a 
water cask was coated with matter impermeable to mois- 
ture, the contained fluid still underwent the changes 
of decomposition, and became offensive, but when in a 
vessel similarly coated, some pieces of iron were put, 
ihe water remained as pure as if it was in iron vessels; 
{Ktraudrtn^ Jinn. (P Hygiene^ &e. t. IV.) 

It bat been ascertained by M. Boutigny, who insti* 



yGoogk 



WATER THE PROPEB DRINK. 325 

tilted a number of experimental observations on the 
subject, that the rain water flowing from zinc roofs is 
sufficiently impregnated with the oxide of this metal to 
be unfitted for a drink or being used in cookery, (jlnn. 
d' Hygiene, &c. t. XVII.) 

Of the superior fitness of water over every other 
liquid, as a drink, we have the testimony of nearly every 
physician of eminence, from Hippocrates down to the 
present time. After speaking of different kinds of water, 
— hard, soft, saline and chalybeate,— ^Hippocrates, with 
his accustomed practical spirit, says: <<A vigorous man, 
who enjoys good health, need not care about a choice 
of water: he may drink that which is near him with 
convenience. But when he desires, on account of dis- 
ease, to select the most fitting drinks, he will be guided 
by the following rules/' I need not repeat them in this 
place, but proceed to observe, that with the invalid, the 
true question is, not what he shall add to water for his 
drink, either to make it palatable or to prevent its sitting 
heavy on his stomach or disordering his bowels: it is, 
the purity of the water and its temperature, as also the 
quantity to be drunk, and the time for drinking it. Dr. 
Gregory, after praising pure spring water, — and river 
water is still better,— as the best and most wholesome 
drink, and the most grateful to those w4io are thirsty, 
whether they be sick or well,— aiding, also, digestion, 
and strengthening the stomach, continues as follows: — 
Sect. MXXVII. " There are, indeed, some, though very 
few in number, to whom cold water, on account of a 
notable weakness, either of the body generally, or of the 
ttomacb, seems, on account of its coldness, to be prejo- 
diciaL Water, however, either made tepid or boiled> 
and allowed to cool, and thus made soft, as it were, is 
still suitable to theao persons.'' {Compestus Med. Tlur.) 
28 



yGoogk 



There is, in fiiot, no excnse for reconrae to any ccMdial, 
especially to any alcoholic liquor, for drink, under the 
plea of either original or acquired weakness of stomach. 
On the contrary, almost the sole means, as far as drink 
is concerned, for recovery from and future ayoidance of 
this infirmity, is to give a decided preference to a watery 
regimen. Eren for the alleviation of present pain and 
spasm of the stooiach, a tumble full or two of hot wateir 
will, I know, prove prompt andefScient I have agam 
and again prescribed it in such cases, with the very best 
efiects. 

The temperattire at which water should be drxndc, at 
or between meals, is partly a matter of habit, and partly 
of temperament and original constitution. In general, 
that is best which represents the mean temperature of 
the place, in temperate latitudes, at least, in which one 
lives. Cold water may be more safely indulged in during 
the earlier part of the day, when the body is in its greatest 
diurnal vigour, than towards evening, when it is less 
able to resist strong impressions of 'any kind. In sum- 
mer, when the skin is hot and dry, and the mouA and 
throat also dry, cold and even iced water, in moderate 
quantity, will be an agreeable and, at the same tiswy a 
salutary drink, by abating the excessive and almost 
,morbid heat, which is apt to become, by the exoiteonent 
it produces, a cause of indirect debility. Water of this 
coldness is better just before than during and after a 
meal, and if taken in the latter poinds, it ought to be In 
smaller quantities. 

Water, besides serving the purpose at dckition,«iid he<> 
4Bg the indiqpenmble menstruum and medttim by which 
ather substances are kept in solmton and coaveyed firom 
4>Qe part ot the body to another^ has also notrimental 
{>rap«rtieaofitsown. 4-1<li8® prop^'^itf^'^f ilMit'wluoh 



yGoogk 



WATER vmrsiTiYE. 8S7 

is dranky is speedily absorbed by the Teios^ and finds 
entrance at onee into the circolationy some time before 
the product of the digested food is introduced by the way 
of the lacteals. We have well authenticated cases of per* 
sons who have lived for a length of time entirely abstinent 
from aM customary aliment, and whose only drink was 
water. In the << Transactions of the Albany Institute/' 
for 1830, Dr. McNaughton relates the case of a man of the 
naoie of Reuben Kelsey, who lived on water alone for 
fifty-three days. << For the first six weeks, he walked 
out every day, and sometimes spent a great part of the 
day in the woods. His walk was steady and firm, and 
his friends even remarked that his step had ao unusual 
elasticity. He shaved himself until about a week be* 
fore his death, and was able to sit up in bed to the last 
day." At the time of his death, Kelsey was twenty* 
seven years of age. His fasting from food was entirely 
. voluntary, and under the influence of a delusion, mani* 
festedin his assigning as a reason, at the beginning of this 
course, that when it was the will of the Almighty that 
be should eat, he would be furnished with an appetite. 
For aU the proper wants of the animal economy, 
simple water, of the desired temperature, is generally, 
sufficient. It often happens, however, that there is 
thirst dependent on the state of the mouth and fauces, 
witbottt any proportionate excitement or craving of the 
stomach and internal organs: this is most liable to 
occur in fevers, and after great labour and exercise 
in a hot sun, or being in a hot air: sometimes it depends 
upon a niorbid state of the stomach, and hence almost 
constant thirst is an accompaniment of some of the va* 
rieties of dyspepsia. Whether we admit this distinction 
or not, it is still certain, that even after the stomach 
has received copious potations of water, in amount 



yGoogk 



328 DBINXS. 

necessary to allay its heat and excitement, that in a 
very short time afterwards, thirst is complained of. — On 
such an occasion, the addition of some s^pid substance 
to the water, produces a change in the oi^n of taste, 
and the entire mucous membrane of the palate and 
fauces, and the thirst is either greatly abated or removed. 

An interminable list of articles has been employed 
with the view of adding them to water, and of agreeably 
affecting the palate, whilst they remove thirst. I shall 
only mention the chief of these; and first in importance, 
the acids, which, as abundant in the fruits of hot climates, 
and as readily developed by their fermentation, would 
seem to be destined by Providence to serve as quenchers 
of thirst and as refrigerents to the overheated frame. 
The chief ones are the citric, the acetic, and the tartaric; 
but as I have already spoken of their use in this way in 
a former chapter, I shall not return to the subject here. 
Lemonade ranksforemost of all the acid drinks; infusion 
of apples (apple water) is also a pleasant beverage; the 
same may be said of the infusion of tamarinds. Acetic 
acid, with water and sugar or molasses, make a drink 
much used, and the quantity and time of taking which 
are soon safely ascertained after a few trials. Mineral 
acids, such as the hydrochloric or muriatic, the sulphuric 
and the nitric, in a state of extreme dilution with water, 
impart to it a refreshing acidity; and in the absence of 
the vegetable acids, may, in cases of feverish thirst, and 
in serious disease, be had recourse to with advantage. 

The juices of most of the mature fruits of our climate, 
containing as they do saccharo-acid matters, make, when 
mixed with water, a pleasant beverage. The jellies of 
some of them, as of currants and cranberries, are much 
and deservedly used in this way. I may mention, how- 
ever, in this place, that a rising in the stomach, or feel- 



yGoogk 



DBINKS or YABIOUS KINDS. 329 

iBgaaiMLlogous to those of bearibarn^ acidity of stoiiMieb> 
as the disease is called^ is more apt to follow the uae <^ 
the compound juices of many frnits, in which the add 
is in small proportion, than where it abounds or exists 
alone. Hence, the juice of the orange will often disagree 
with a dyspeptic or febrile patient, when lemon juice, or 
even lemonade, with a small quantity of sugar, would 
be attended with no inconvenience. Cider or wine will 
cause heartburn and acid eructations, — whereas vinegar 
and water, so far from giving rise to such disorders, will 
sometimes alleviate them. 

Simple saccharine drinks, such as sugar and water 
and molasses and water, will often assuage thirst, and 
be relished by the persons using them. The eau sucrie 
is a common drink among the French, as molasses and 
water is among many of our own people. Sugar candy 
has, on occasions, served both for nourishment and to 
allay thirst, where neither common aliment nor water 
was procurable. 

Infusions of different herbs which have a slight 
aromatic and bitter taste conjoined, are often used as 
beverages, — such are, among others, balm and sage teas. 
Even a decidedly bitter flavour, imparted by different 
v^etable substances to water, sometimes affects both the 
sense of taste and the stomach in such a manner as 
greatly to abate tormenting thirst in fever. Substances 
again, of quite a different nature, as the pure gums, 
destitute almost of taste and of any stimulating pro- 
perty whatever, will soothe the irritation which causes 
riolent thirst, and prevent its return for a longer time 
Ibiia simple water or even water mixed with the vege- 
table acids. Gummy or mucilaginous drinks, and the 
best is that prejiared with gum arable, seem to act in two 

28* 



yGoogk 



330 DRIHKS. 

wrajTSy-^first, by soothing the nervous and capillary ex- 
citement of the mucous surfaces which gives rise to 
thirst; and secondly, by a portion remaining adherent 
to these surfaces; evaporation and consequent dryness of 
the tongue and mouth are prevented,— and consequently 
the call for fluid to moisten the mouth and throat is less 
urgent. 

One remark is applicable to all the drinks hitherto 
enumerated; the craving for them ceases with the re- 
moval of the thirst for which they were first taken, and 
they are never continued on account of any pleasurable 
effects on the nervous system, whether of a stimulating 
or narcotic nature. Their occasional seldom becomes a 
continual use and habit, unless they are found, as in the 
case of saccharine or gummy drinks, to be in harmonious 
relation with the nutritive wants of the system; that is 
to say, of being beneficial to digestion, while they at the 
same time contribute somewhat to the nourishment of 
the frame. These are the only safe conditions on which 
any drink can be continued; they are complied with in 
the case of water and to infusions or mixtures of sugar, 
of saccharo-acids, of gum, of farinaceous matters, — such 
as toast and water, rice-water, and barley-water, &c., of 
which I have already treated. But these conditions are 
not complied with in the case of the infusion of any 
vegetable bitter, and still less of any alcoholic drink. 

There are two beverages which, in modem times, 
and, still more, at the present age, have acquired a 
dietetic importance which entitles them to a fuller notice 
than their nutritive properties alone would require — I 
refer now to tea and coffee. Of the detailed histories of 
their introduction into general use in Europe I am un- 
able to treat in this place, nor to repeat the many anec- 
dotes connected with their first use. The leading traits 



yGoogk 



TEA — ITS PIBST USE. SSI 

of each, in their dietetic and medicinal character/ must 
suffice for my present purpose. . 

Tea [Thea Firidis et Thea Bohea).^One of the 
earliest notices of tea-drinking in England is also cha- 
racteristic of the unceasing rigilance of the rulers of that 
country to tax everything which is eaten or drank, or 
is used either as a necessary or a luxury. By an act of 
Parliament, passed 1660, in the reign of Charles II., a 
duty of eight pence per gallon was laid on all tea made 
and sold in coffee-houses, which were visited twice daily 
by officers, whose duty it was to ascertain what quantity 
had been made. The tea at this time^ was probably 
brought from Holland, for it wasnot until 1669 that the 
first invoice of tea was received by the East India Com* 
pany, amounting to 143^ lbs. In a little more than a 
century from this timd, or in 1771, and for nine years 
succeeding, there were no less than My millions of 
pounds of tea brought from China in English ships, of 
which thirteen millions were consumed in the British 
dominions. It appears, says Mr. McCulloch, that the 
consumption of tea in Great Britain has been about 
stationary, or has rather diminished from 1800 to the 
present period. This has been occasioned, he thinks, 
partly perhaps by the increased nse of coffee, but more, 
he adds, by the enhanced price arising out of the increase 
of the duty, and the operation of the monopoly. In 
Ireland, the consumption has been about stationary 
since 1801, notwithstanding the population has more 
than doubled in the interval. The quantity of tea re- 
tained for home consumption in Great Britain in 1833, 
was 31,829,620 lbs., and for Ireland in 1827, the last 
year of record, 3,887,955. In 1800, the consumption in 
Great Britain was 20,358,702 lbs. Now as the popula- 
tion at this last date was a little under eleven millions^ or 



yGoogk 



339 mmm. 

lO^MlyTTS^ Mid lA 1830 wan ItfilSfiQS^ iododiiig ia 
both instances the army and nKvy, the eonsamptioa oi 
tea ought to have increased in this latter time to nearly 
32 millions^ even supposing oo increased taste for or con- 
sumption per individual The actual consumption inl830 
was a Uttle over 30 millions,— justifying Mr. McCulloch's 
observation that the consumption had been about sta* 
tionary, or has rather diminished since ISOO, to the 
period when he wrote* The rate of consumption would 
from this estimate be less than 2 lbs. annually for every 
individual in Great Britain. In 1838, there was an in* 
crease in the entire amount, which was 33,366,412. 
That for Ireland, supposing the entire quantity con- 
sumed in 1830 about the same as that in 1827, the ave* 
rage for each person would be not quite half a pound. 
The population of this country in 1830, was 7,734,365. 

The average annual imports of tea in the United 
States, for the six years^ ending with 1840, were about 
14,500,000 lbs. 

In commerce, two principal kinds of tea are distin- 
guished, — the Black and the Greetiy — to the first belong 
Bohea^ Congou^ Cdmpoij Souchongs Caper and Pekoe 
or Faho; to the latter, Twankej/j Hyson-^kin^ Hyson, 
Imperial and Gunpowder. Frank {Gmelin, Handb. 
d. Chem. II, 1352) aimlyzed both black and green teas, 
and obtained the following results: — > 





Blaek. 


Orteti. 


Tannin, - - . - 


40.6 


34.6 


Gum, - - - - 


6.3 


6.9 


Woody fibre, 


44.8 . 


50.3 


Glutinous matter. 


6.3 


5.7 


Volatile matter, and loss, - 


S.O * 


2.5 



100.0 100.0 



Sir H. Davy, (Phil. Trans. 1803, p. 268,) also found 
more tannin in black than in green tea, in the proportion 



yGoogk 



EFFECTS or TEA. 33S 

of 48 to 41. Bat these results are opposed to our daily 
experience, as derived from flavour, which indicates the 
greater astringency in the green tea, and to the experi- 
ments of Mr. Brande, (Quart. Joum. XII, 201.) The 
difference in the quantity of tannin in the two kinds of 
tea is not, however, very great. A few years ago, 
Oudry announced the existence in tea of a crystalline^ 
salifiable base, to which he gave the name of tkeina; 
but, more recently, Jobst {Jinn. a. Pharnij XXV, 63, 
1833) has asserted its identity with caffein, (Pereira^ 
op. cit.) 

It is not easy to ascertain correctly the precise effects 
of tea on the constitution, — separately from concomi- 
tants, in persons who are prone to use it largely and in 
excess. We cannot agree with Dr. CuUen in the opinion 
that the effects, whether good or bad, depend on the 
warmth and quantity of the water in which the tea is 
infused. Its astringency is proved not only by analysis 
but by its occasional use as an antidote in cases of poi- 
soning from substances containing vegetable alkalies 
or emetic tartar. Hence, in cases of torpid bowels and 
costlveness, tea of any strength ought to be avoided, 
even if it be taken at all. The agreeable exhilaration 
of the nervous system after drinking tea recommends it 
to the studious, the sedentary and to those oppressed with 
hypochondriasis or indigestion. Dr. Johnson, who com- 
bined in himself all these qualities, was a devoted lover 
of tea, which he would not admit to be productive of 
any injurious effects on health. That it does not abridge 
life may be asserted from his example, but that it power- 
fully affects the nervous system, and like every excitant 
is followed by depression and gloom, is clear from the 
recorded feelings of this celebrated man. 

In praise of tea, it is well said, that << it contributes ta 



yGoogk 



334 DmniKS* 

tkd sobriety of ft nation; it impttrtt all the charms to to- 
ciely which spring from the enjoyment of conversatiofl, 
without that excitement which follows upon a fermented 
drink. Raynal has observed that it has contributed 
more to the sobriety of the Chinese than the severest 
laws, the most eloquent harangues of Christian orators, 
or the best treatises of morality* The people on the 
continent are reverting to the habit of tea drinkiog, 
which they had abandoned during the long war, when 
they were shut out from the possibility of obtaining it, 
and therefore sought a substitute in coffee. In Holland, 
in Germany, and in Russia, tea is much prized, whilst 
erea in France, where for so many years coffee was 
considered the only good beverage, and was used either 
strong or mixed with milk, according to the meal that 
was taken, our favourite shrub is beginning to be as 
much in use as long established custom has rendered it 
in England.'*— (Sigmund—Tio, its Effects, Medkinal 
and Moral) 

The sedative power of tea is alleged spon to suoeeed 
the first excitemei\t caused by it, and henoe Dr. T. Per- 
cival recommends its use in feverish and infliammatory 
diseases. It is more readily drunk than most beverages 
by the sick, but the great importance of their procuring 
steep, which is the grand restorative, and the tendency 
of tea to produce wakefulness, ought generally to deter us 
from prescribing it in the above-mentioned forms of dis- 
ease. Tea ought to be abstained from by the nervous, 
so called; that is, by those who suffer from palpitation 
of the heart, tremors of any kind, weakness or disturb- 
ance of any of the senses, morbid sensibility, and a&y 
notable irregularity of function. A common and un- 
pleasant symptom or sensation caused by the frequent 
use of strong tea is a sinking or gna wii^ at the stomach 



yGoogk 



oavwwK. $35 

Portly afi^ the morning repust in which it has been 
meif espedally if to the exdnsion of substantial aliment. 
Vertigo and sLck, headache are also fVequently referable 
to tea drinking. But, on the other band, plethora or 
morbid fulness of the system, and a feeling oi tension 
and excessive excitement of the brain are lessened by 
this beyerage. It is opposed ta a very active nutrition, 
and l»nce it is better adapted to full and fleshy habits 
and phlegmatic temperaments than to the thin and the 
nervous. 

Although chemical analysis may fail to indicate any 
notable difference in the composition of green and black 
teas, and botanists are not agreed as to their being dis^ 
tinct 8(»ecies, their effects on the system are undoubtedly 
different. Wakefulness, tremors, palpitations, and other 
digressing feelings, are no uncommon results of green 
tea: they are much less, if not entirely, wanting after 
drinking black tea. Dr. Lettsom found that a strong 
infusion of tea introduced into the abdomen of a dog 
caused paralysis of the hind extremities of the animal. 

OoFFBB {Coffea Arabica). — The coffee-plant is a na- 
tive of Arabia Felix and Ethiopia, but is extensively 
cuHivated in Asia and America. The varieties of coffee 
are distinguished in commerce according to their places 
of growth, but considered with reference to their physic 
eal properties, they are characterised by colour (yellow, 
bli9^f or greenish) and sise. Arabian or Mocha coffee 
ia small and dark yellow. Java and Ea9t India (Ma? 
labar) kinds are larger, an<) paler yellow. The Ceylon 
is more analogous to the JVest India kinds, which, as 
weil as the Brazilian, have a bluisb or greenish-gray 
tiot. The coffee of Mocha is generally esteemed the 
b«at, tlien follow the Java and West India. 

The awoimt ^ eoqport of coffee fiom the pnadfal 



yGoogk 



336 DBIHK8« 

countries in which it is produced, is estimated by Mr. 
McCuiloch to be 147,000 tons, of which Brazil and the 
Spanish Main send the largest quota, or 42,000 tons, — 
Cuba and Porto Rico next, or 25,000,-*and Hayti 20,000. 
The consumption is rated as follows:—- 

Tom. 

Great Britain, - - - - - - 10,000 

Netherlands and Holland, .... 40,560 

German J and coantry round the Baltic, - 32,000 
France, Spain, Italy, Turkey in Europe, the Le- 
vant, &c. ... . • 35,000 

America, - - 20,600 



138,500 



The average annual importation into France for the 
years 1S30, 1831, and 1832, was nearly 11,476 tons, or 
25,716,214 lbs., or not more than three-fourths of a 
pound for each person in that kingdom. In Great Bri- 
tain, the consumption is about 22,000,000 lbs., or nearly 
a pound for each person in both islands. In the United 
States, the proportion of coffee consumed from 1834 to 
1840, has been 4.7 lbs. for each person; the entire amount 
annually averaging during the above period of seven 
years, 79,833,369 lbs. (American Mmanac for 1840.) 

We are ignorant of the precise time when coffee began 
to be roasted and used as a drink, though the discovery 
is not supposed to date farther back than the early part 
of the fifteenth century. A public house was opened finr 
the first time in London in 1652. The first coffee-house 
for the sale of coffee in France was opened at Marseilles 
in 1671, and next in Paris in the following year. 

Coffee-berries readily imbibe exhalations from other 
bodies, and thereby acquire an adventitious and disa^ 
greeable odour. Sugar placed near coffee will in a short 
tame so impregnate the berries as to injure their flavour. 



yGoogk 



COMPOSITIOH OV COFFEE. 337 

Dr. Moseley mentioDs that a few bags of pepper on 
board a ship from India spoiled a whole cargo of coffee. 
The roasting of the coffee-berry to a proper state re- 
quires great nicety; the virtue and agreeableness of the 
drmk depend upon it; and both are often injured by the 
ordinary method. If it be underdone, its virtues will 
not be imparted, and on use it will load and oppress the 
stomach: if it be overdone, it will yield a flat, burnt, and 
bitter taste; its virtues will be destroyed; and in use it 
will heat the body, and act as an astringent. (Moseley 
on Coffee, quoted by McCuUoch.) 

Roasted coffee is, when ground, extensively adulter- 
ated (in England) with chicory. To detect the adultera- 
tion, shake the suspected coffee with cold water in a 
wineglass: if it be pure coffee, it will swim and scarcely 
colour the fluid; but the chicory sinks, and communicates 
a deep red tint to the water. Chicory-coffee yields a 
perfectly wholesome beverage; but it wants the fine 
flavour for which genuine coffee is renowned. The 
presence of roasted grain of any description may be de- 
tected by the blue colour produced on the addition of a 
solution of iodine to the cold decoction. Chemical ana^ 
lysis has not given us very satisfactory results respecting 
the composition and qualities of coffee.* The distilled 
water offers traces of a volatile oil. Pfaff declares 
that the aroma of roasted coffee depends on the volatili- 
zation, or rather decomposition, of a peculiar acid, con- 
tained in raw coffee, and which has been denominated 
eaffeie acid. It is probable that a volatile oil is generated 
daring torrefaction, though it is not known what consti- 
tuent of the raw coffee produces it. Caffein is a volatile, 
crystalline, neutral constituent of coffee. The decoction 
of coffee is coloured green by the persalts of iron, pro- 
bably in consequence of the presence of cateehuiiraeid. 
29 



yGoogk 



338 DmiVKS. 

B7 the action of alkalies on a volatile principle of coffee, 
a green substance is produced, called coffee green. The 
other constituents of coffee are-^-^tim, resin, fixed oily 
extractive, albumen and Ugnin. The peculiar coffee 
principle constitutes 17.59 per cent, of raw coffee, and 
12.50 of roasted coffee. 

Saw coffee must be slightly nutritious, on account of 
the gum and other nutritive principles which it contains. 
Rasori employed it, like powdered bark, in intermittent 
fever; and Grindel used it, in other cases, also as a sub- 
stitute for cinchona, fiy roasting, its nutritive principles 
^re (for the most part) destroyed, while the empyreu- 
matic matters developed exert a stimulant influence on 
the nervous system. 

Boasted coffee possesses powerfully antisoperific pro- 
perties; hence, its use as a drink by those who desire 
nocturnal study, and as an antidote to counteract the 
effects of opium and other narcotics, and to relieve in- 
toxication. It has also been employed as a febrifuge in 
intermittent; as a stomachic, in some forms of dyspepsia; 
as an astringent in diarrhoea; and as a stimulant to the 
cerebro-spinal system, in some nervous disorders. Floyer, 
Br. Percival, and others, have used it in spasmodic 
asthma; and Laennec ( IVeat. on Diseases qfthe Chesi), 
says, << I have myself seen cases in which coffee was 
really useful.'' It is sometimes of service in relieving 
headache. (Pereira, op. cit.) Coffee is acouaed of caus- 
ing constipation, — more generally it has an opposite ef- 
fect, and its discontinuance in those who have iong used 
M is followed for a while by constipation. This latter 
.aUte may be regarded as the effect of a torpor of the 
intestinal canal left by the cessation of an hahitiial sti- 
mulus, as coffee undoubtedly is. In diarrbiBa aod other 
ioQseness of the bowels, coffee ought to be ^^^^twnt^ 



yGoogk 



WHEN COFFSS 18 UfJUmiOVS. 339 

frouiyand in dyspepsia generally, beyond the temporary 
relief of an unpleasant symptom its effects are detri- 
mental, viz. thirst, heat, acidity, and sometimes gastric 
pains or spasms. The same remark applies to sick and 
inflammatory headache; nor can its use be continued 
without danger by those persons who desire to defraud 
themselves of their customary sleep, with a view to 
study or composition in the silent watches of the night. 
Pioel, in his work on Insanity, (%Slienation MentaUj) 
gives cases in which this disease was brought into display 
by this intemperate use of coffee. Its exciting properties 
render its use unfit for those who are troubled with pal- 
pitation of the heart, whether it be from hypertrophy of 
this organ or morbid alteration of its valves. The Ita- 
lian physicians speak familiarly of coffee as a stimulus, 
on a line with wines, as far as mere excitement is con- 
cerned; and accordingly they prohibit its use to their 
patients with fever or inflammatory diseases. Coffee is 
an enemy to the skin, and females who drink much of 
this infusion cannot hope to possess or retain freshness 
of complexion and softness and polish of skin, especially 
if they are deprived of the inestimable advantages of 
daily exercise in the open air. The nursing mother ought 
to be sparing in the use of this tempting beverage. 

As Johnson's practice and experience are quoted in 
favour of tea, so are those of Voltaire in support of 
the liberal use of coffee. Longevity was, it is true, 
attained by the French author as it was by the English 
one; but in the nervousness and* irascibility, and the 
weakly frame of Voltaire, we shall hardly expect proofs 
of the corroborating effects of coffee, any more than in 
the hypochondriasis, purblindness, jerks and spasms, 
late hours and late rising of Johnson, can we look for 
evidence in favour of the hygienic effects of tea. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER XIV. 

ALCOHOLIC BBINKS. 

Alcoholic and intoxicating drinks,— their sameness and effects — Al- 
cohol, a poison, is not altered by dilation or mixture— Illustra- 
tions in opium and quinine— Different classes of alcoholic 
drinkers — Alliance between the wine-press and the still^Wine 
and spirits, their common origin — All wines exported are brandied 
and otherwise adulterated — Claret, — Port, — Biadeira, — Sherry, — 
Champaigne— Alcohol a product of fermentation— Wine and beer^ 
their alcoholic resemblance — Difference in other matters — Com- 
position of wine, and of beer — Fermented liquors the product of 
elaborate art— Vinegar the natural product of the juice of the 
grape— Spirits— Alcohol not formed by distillation— Prerioos fer- 
mentation necessary— Alcohol procured from wine without distil- 
lation — Dietetic value of alcoholic liquors — Are injurious to di- 
gestion—Do not give strength, nor ability to resist atmospheric 
extremes and exposures— Consumption of alcoholic liquors in 
France— Drunkenness, and its excesses, and diseases, common in 
that country — Proofs and Illustrations— Consumption of alcoholic 
liquors in Qreat Britain — Deplorable results— Consumption in the 
United States— Amendments 

The next class of drinks to be spoken of are the in- 
tozicatingy so called on account of their effects on the 
brain and nervous system, or the alcoholic, thus named 
on account of alcohol in greater or less proportion 
entering into the composition of all of them. Alco- 
hol is the intoxicating principle, found in all of them, 
viz. distilled liquors, wines, cider, perry, beer^ &c. 



yGoogk 



ALCaSOX. IS FOISOK. 341. 

This simple and brief annuncialion of the general 
sameness of composition and identity of effect, ou^t, 
one would suppose, at once to determine their hy • 
gienic character. If alcohol be useful at all in aid of 
the performance of any separate function, or of the 
faculties of mind and body collectively,, then does it 
become a question as to the mode in which it is com- 
bined with other substances, so as to make its adminis* 
tiation palatable. If, on the contrary, alcohol be, as 
uniform experience has proved it to be, a poison, 
whether applied locally to a nerve or any tissue, or 
acting generally on the system at large, then ought its 
use to be carefully abstained from, as we abstain from 
any other poison, except under rare and peculiar cir- 
cumstances, as in disease in which poisons admiiiistei^d 
in small doses are medicines, and produce, at times, a 
curative effect. But in no instance, except id that of 
alcohol, (and its congener, tobadco,) have these curative 
effects following the administration of a poison in limited 
and minute doses, been made a ground of argument in 
favour of the habitual use of such poison, as a genial 
excitant, soother or tonic, without reference to disease 
being present. 

Opium is often an admirable medicine to relieve pain, 
to procure sleep, and to banish unpleasant thoughts,— 
and there are cases in which its regular administration 
for a length of time seems to be indispensable; but yet 
no one argues from these effects and the occasional use 
of this drug, in favour of its beneficial tendency and 
operation for common hygienic purposes of exhilara^ 
tion, or social ones of good fellowship, &c. For<^ 
tanately, its secondary effects are, for the most part, 
distressing, and are wisely interposed as an obstacle to 
its too frequent and too common use. But even if 

29* 



yGoogk 



342 ALCOHOLIC DBINK8. 

these secondary effects were not experienced at all by 
some persons, or if custom had made them less felt by 
others, still, neither the physician nor the moralist 
could justifiably recommend the habitual use of opium 
in every-day life. Nor would they think of ad- 
vising for common and daily use> certain preparations 
of this poison, in which the narcotic or stupefying, 
and subsequently distressing effects are in a measure 
obviated. By whatever name these preparations may 
be called, — tinctures, cordials, carminatives, balsams, — 
in which opium is present, they will all produce effects 
more or less characteristic of opiate operation; and 
hence be deleterious to those who make daily or habitual 
use of them. 

Precisely the same train of argument and illustration 
with that just offered in reference to opium, is strictly 
applicable to alcohol; with this difference, that for one 
case of disease in which alcohol in any form of com- 
bination is useful, there are a hundred cases of disease 
in which we derive good offsets from opium. Peruvian 
bark, and its various preparations, have cured inter- 
mittent fevers, neuralgia, and other periodical diseases 
of great violence and malignity. Modern chemistry 
has shown, that its active medicinal principle or ele- 
ment is quinine; and that, however various the forms in 
which the bark may be administered, its efficacy mainly 
depends on a certain portion of quinine entering into 
them. This latter may be taken separately from the other 
constituents of the bark, as indeed is now the conraion 
practice, not only with safety but with signal efficacy. 
But although comparatively miki in its first effects and 
subsequent operation, and although it has been given 
in v^ry large doses without injury, no one recommends 
its daily use in minute doses, or in large dilution, and ad- 



yGoogk 



POISONS NOT CHAN«SD BT DILUTION. 343 

ministered with cordials and aromatics, out of gratitude 
for its services in disease, or with a hope that its tonic 
effects, manifested in certain cases of disease, will be con- 
tinued from day to day in health, and when the person is 
in the dischai^e of his regular duties. In the case of alco- 
hol, the active element in intoxicating drinks, we cannot 
give it pure without immediate danger to the life of the 
person taking it. It is a virulent poison; and yet we find 
persons setting up a claim for its being used from day to 
day, in dilution, and in combination with palatable sub- 
stances, under a plea of its healthful, as well as plea- 
surable effects! 

Opium is still opium, however disguised and mo- 
dified,— quinine is still quinine, however diluted and 
combined by mixture with other substances. No- 
body pretends, that their constant use in health, and 
after the circumstances which required their adminis- 
tration have been removed, can be beneficial or proper. 
Nobody believes, that their dilution or mode of com- 
bination causes any specific change in their proper- 
ties, or that any modification of this kind will fit 
them for daily and habitual use by persons in health. 
It is reserved for the friends of alcohol to advance an 
exceptional plea in its favour, by an attempt to per- 
suade us, that what in its purity and strength is a vio- 
lent poison, becomes, by dilution and mixture, a safe 
and healthful beverage. The time was, still is in the 
opinion of many, when a dilution of alcohol, by the 
addition of an equal quantity of water and a slight 
flavouring with some essential oil, as that of barley, 
made it quite safe and proper. Now, however, in the 
opinion of an immense number of persons, this degree 
and fashion of dilution, being that in which distilled 
liquors are generally manufactured, does not prevent 



yGoogk 



344 AI^OOHOLIC DmiNKS. 

alcohol from poisoning the frame add perverting all the 
faculties of the mind, as poisons generally do. Whiskjr 
and brandy and gin and rum drinkers and sellers are 
getting out of favour, and for stronger reasons thaa 
ever yet brought a class into disrepute. But they leave 
behind them a large and influential body, who, whilst 
disclaiming against any connexion with or sympathy 
for them, hold very much to the same dietetic ob- 
servancesy by making use of the same intoxicating and 
poisonous element, only in smaller proportions and some* 
what differently combined. These persons abjure al- 
cohol in the proportion of 50 or even 45 per cent., as it 
comes in the shape of ardent spirits or distilled liquors, 
but they battle stoutly for the proportion of 25 down to 
10 per cent, ill the shape of wines. There is yet a third 
set at their heels, or the moderately alcoholic, who 
come in as plain, practical farmers, or honest manu- 
facturers and labourers, and who quietly assure us, that 
they will be content with alcohol in drinks at the low rate 
of from 9 to U per cent, in the shape of cider and beer. 
All these three divisions are, however, in fact, ar- 
rayed in the same cause and adopt the same banner, 
though with different devices; and they resemble much 
more different divisions of the same army than opposing 
forces. They all procure alcohol from the same source, 
and by the same primary process, viz. of fermentation. 
The manufacturers of ardent spirits have contrived to 
procure it in greater abundance by distillation from fer- 
menting mixtures; but, in requital, they give back a por- 
tion to the makers of wines, in order to strengthen these 
latter liquors,and adapt them to the still prevailing tastes 
for something rather more potentially alcoholic Between 
the Wine-press and the Still there is then a close and al- 
most inseparable connexion, and so long as the former is 



yGoogk 



BRANDT VmOM ANB IN WINS. 345 

in active operation the latter will never be idle. From 
wine is educed Spirits of Wine^ as alcohol is often caHed. 
Of the 924 millions of gallons of wine made in France, 
it will be remembered, that more than a seventh or 141 
millions were manufactured into brandy (p. 223); a por- 
tion of which is used in giving more body to the wine 
that is reserved for exportation. Nor is French brandy 
alone used for this purpose. Mr. McCulloch, in speak- 
ing of the Catalonian wines, tells us that the exports 
from Barcelona to Cuba^ are 12,000 pipes of wine and 
3000 pipes of brandy; to South America, 16,000 pipes 
of wine and 6000 pipes of brandy; to the North of Eu- 
rope> 2000 pipes of wine and 2000 pipes of brandy. So 
that for every three pipes of wine, there goes with it 
more than a pipe of brandy; both of them the product 
of the juice of the grape. The author just cited, adds: 
A good deal of brandy is sent to Cadiz and Cette; most 
part of the former finds its way into the wine vaults of 
Xeres; and the latter being conveyed by the canal of 
Languedoc to the Garonne, is used in the preparation 
of the wines of Bordeaux. 

Claret is not a simple wine or the produce of one 
kind of grape, or even one vintage; but is a mixture of 
Bordeaux and Bene Carlos; sometimes Languedoc and 
Bordeaux; at others, Hermitage or Alicant with Bor- 
deaux; and uniformly a portion of brandy is added to it, 
in the proportion of six per cent For more than a cen- 
tury the Portuguese have ceased to send pure port wine 
to England. Redding, from whose work (on Wines) I 
derive the preceding account of the mixture and adul- 
teration of Bordeaux wine, says of Port, in reference to 
its preparation for the English market: << They did not 
spare brandy in the operation, nor elderberries, nor 
burnt corn, nor any thing that would answer to colour 



yGoogk 



346 ▲LCOHOI^IC PUNKS. 

the wine, when it was not thought deep enough. They 
created at length such a wine as the world never before 
saw, especially when improved by subsequent adultera- 
tions in London, where the imitations of port wine have 
been found to be so facile, in consequence of the absence 
in most of that imported of the prime qualities of good 
wine, that a vast quantity more is sold than Oporto, 
with its company, has ever been able to export.'' And 
again, << Five-eighths of the wine brought to England 
is so coarse, and is such a medley of ill-flavoured hetero- 
geneous vine produce, bad Portuguese brandy, and 
other matters, that any ingenious person may increase 
one pipe to three, by the addition of inexcusable articles^ 
without any fear of injury to the stomach of the con- 
sumer, or to the appearance of the wine happening." 
Mr. McCuUoch, not prone to extravagance of calcula- 
tion or opinion, says on this subject: « A large quantity 
of brandy is always mixed with wine shipped from 
Oporto for England. Genuine unmixed port wine is 
very rarely met with in this country." 

Of Madeira winesy Redding says, << Brandy is not al- 
lowed to be imported into Madeira, even from Portugal; 
that which they require they make themselves. For 
what object this prohibition exists, it is difficult to tell, 
as the wines of Madeira always receive an admixture 
of brandy on exportation, the growers say, to enable 
them to bear the long sea voyages to which they are 
subjected." To the same purport, Mr. McCulloch in- 
forms us, that, ^ though naturally strong, they receive 
an addition of brandy when racked from the vessels in 
which they have been fermented, and another portioa 
is thrown in previously to their exportation." 

But not only are all the exported wines brandied,but 
they are also, at home and in England and in this coun- 



yGoogk 



MAPSimA— OLABBT-^CHAMPAIONB. 347 

try, adulterated aAer various fashions. <<When Ma- 
deira was a fashionable wine in England, every sort of 
deception was practised with respect to it, and large 
quantities of spurious trash were disposed of for the 
genuine vintage of the island. This naturally brought 
the wine into disrepute^ so that sherry has been for 
several years the fashionable white wine. It is diffi- 
cult, however, to Imagine that adulteration was ever 
practised to a greater extent upon Madeira than is now 
practised upon sherry." (McCulloch.) We have seen al- 
ready that sherry is duly brandied by Catalonian brandy. 
That it is otherwise adulterated, is affirmed by the wri- 
ter last quoted, who, in another place remarks: << Per- 
haps no wine is so much adulterated as sherry." In 
England,as we learn from Redding, <<sherry of the brown 
kind and of low price, when imported, is mingled with 
Cape wines and cheap brandy, the washings of brandy 
casks, sugar-candy, bitter almonds, and similar prepara- 
tions, while the colour, if too great for pale sherry, is 
taken out by the addition of a small quantity of lamb's 
blood, and then passed off for the best sherry, by one 
class of wine sellers and advertisers. The softness of 
good sherry is closely imitated." 

Large quantities of what is miscalled claret, is manu- 
factured in England, for making which, as well as tm- 
proved claret of prime character, many recipes are 
extant. 

Champaigne is everywhere manufactured, to meet 
the existing demand in Paris, in London, or in the 
United States. Not one bottle in a hundred of that 
which is drank in England and this country, comes 
from Champaigne. ^ The ignorance of many persons 
of the true taste of Champaigne, has of late caused the 
importation of a wretched and cheap manufiftcture from 



yGoogk 



348 ▲LCOHOLIC DRIHK8. 

the continent^ which U sold for the genuine article, but 
still larger quantities of a fictitious wine, under the same 
name, have been made here (in England) of common 
ingredients, and passed off at public places. Balls, 
races, masquerades and crowded public dinners, aie 
profitable markets for adulterated wines/' 

I the more readily quote from Redding, as he is an 
amateur of wine, and not inelined to underrate its vir*- 
tues. Henderson, whose volume is before me, bears 
testimony to the same effect; and I might, if necessary, 
adduce multiplied proofs from other sources, of the ex- 
tent to which the mixture of distilled spirits, and espe- 
cially brandy, and the adulteration by the mixture of 
other and deleterious substances, are carried, in prepar- 
ing nearly all the known, certainly the most celebrated 
wines for market. One inference is clear, that whoever 
drinks the wine which is commonly brought to table, 
most certainly drinks brandy with it. And there is a 
strong probability besides, that he also drinks, at the 
same time, an adulterated compound, which, in addition 
to the double supply of alcohol in it, contains ingre- 
dients injurious to the stomach and to the sjrstem gene- 
rally. The wine drinker in Great Britain and the United 
States goes beyond the grog drinker: the latter takes 
simply spirits and water, whereas he takes spirits and 
wine. By the standard of temperance, it will not be 
difficult to decide their respective merits; on the score 
of health, I would rather run the chances of the drinker 
of spirits and water, than of him who drinks spirits 
and wine. The probable longevity is in favour, as &r 
as my .observation and reading extend, of the grog 
drinker. But from the imitation of either, we ought all 
devoutly to exclaim, << Good Lord deliver us!'' 

The assertion, once made with some confidence, that 



yGoogk 



ALCOHOL FOBICED ONLY B7 FERMENTATION. 349 

.alcohol is ia a peeuliar state of combination in fermented 
liquors, and only becomes free by distillation, is entirely 
unfounded. Tbe formation of alcohol is the direct, in- 
deed inevitable result of fermentation; a process which 
takes place by a combination of sugar with water and 
a portion of ferment or yeast, in a temperature of from 
.68 to 77 degrees of Fahrenheit. I have already de«- 
e^ribed the phenomena nlanifested during panary fer«- 
fnentation, viz. the swelling up or rising of the sub^ 
stances mixed, and the formation and evolution of 
carbonic acid and alcohol. Starch kept in a moist slate 
for some time, is gradually converted into sugar, and 
subsequently, by fermentation, undergoes changes 
similar to those just mentioned. It is by a process like 
this last, that certain grains, such as barley, which con* 
sist mainly of starch, on being mahed, evolve saccha^- 
Hhe matter, and are then fitted for fermentation and its 
consequent products, alcohol and fixed air. 
I Analogous changes take place in the juices of certain 
fruits, such as grapes, which have in themselves all the 
Irequired materials for fermentation, viz. sugar, and fer- 
ment and water, when the other condition 6f adequately 
elevated temperature is complied with. But in all these 
cases, the alcohol did not pre-exist or form a constituent 
element of the substances, by the mixture and working 
of which it was evolved. It did not exist in the sugar, 
nor in tbe starch nor malted grain, nor in the grapes, 
nor in their fredi juice. So long as tbe skin and the cells 
in which the juice is contained are entire, and exclude 
the air, the fruit will not ferment. Nor will the expressed 
juice or mustf as it is called, ferment, if it is carefoUy 
exduded from the air< Even when it is heated in close 
mseels, to the temperature of boiling water, at 219P F., 
a will not ukidergo any fermentative change, bnt it may 
30 



yGoogk 



350 ALCOfiOLIC DBIMHa. 

be preserved in this state for years, without, bowever^ 
losing its property of fermenting. 

In the case of the fermentation of uHuri or an infiisioii 
of mah, the gluten which is contained in the graia 
aervea as a ferment to the other or saccharine portsoo, 
and water, just i» (eaven did to the paste in the making 
o# bread; and the result is beer, with its proportion of 
alcohol and carbonic acid. Wort ferments by the addc* 
tion of yeast, but after its decomposition is con^kpleted the 
quantity of ferment or yeast is found to be increased by 
thirty times noore than it was originally. The additional 
quantity comes fVom the gluten. Yeast from beer asd 
that from wine, examined under the microscope, present 
the same form and general appeamncei. They are both 
acted on in the same manner by acids and alkahest, 
and possess the power of producing fermeatatioo anew 
in a solution of sugar; in short, they musi be regarded 
as identical. Wines and malt liquors, thet^fore, it will 
have been seen, resemble each other in their being, both 
of them, the product of sugar with 5^ater, decomposed 
by yeast or a fermentable principle, ghiten. In al| of 
them, alcohol and fixed air are formed. Wine is ^b» 
manufactumd liquor of the juice, but by po sieans die 
juice itself, of the grape. Ate and beer are the maBxi- 
feotured hquors of barley, which has undergone the 
process of mahing. But in addition to the exhilaraling 
principle, carbonic acid(^ and the mebriating principle^ 
alcoheJ, both common to these and ta all former^ 
liquors,— raltheugh as regards the aoid, it is altawed to 
eaoape in many wines,*^tbere are other prinoipkesen 
whkh their distinctive flavour depends. 

The juice of the ripe grape consists, according to 
Proust, of extra€ii»e matiery sugary gum^ gli^Hneui 
mmtter, maKc cuiidy dirio aeidy and bitartrctie qfpotmsa^ 



yGoogk 



COMFOSlTIOIf OF WINE AND BEER. 351 

(creatn of tartar.) B^rard^ in additk^n, fottnd malaU qf 
lime^ and supeHariraie qf limey but no citric acidy^^aDd 
in place of extractive^ he reports odorous matter. The 
chief constituents of wine^ in addition td alcohol and 
water^ are talftarie or malic acid^ extractive matter, and 
an odorous principle, to which the name of Genanthic 
^her has been given. All the constituents of wities, but 
seldom, if ever, found in any one wine, are, accolrdiug 
to Gmelin, {Hundb. d'CAem. II. 1255,) as follows: Al- 
cohol, an odorous prinetpUj (volatile oil?), blue colour- 
ing of the huS8k^(ift red wine,) tannin^ bitter extractive,, 
sugar^ (especially in the sweet wines,) gum^ yeasty 
abetict^dy (from the commencement of the acetous fer- 
mentation,) ^mtMe aidd^ tartartic acidy bitartrate of 
potaasa^ bitnrtrette qf limey sulphates and chloridesy 
pkasp/^ate qf limei^earbonicaeidy (especially in the effer- 
vescing winei,) and wdter. To these m&y be added the 
paratartarie acid or racetnie add. (Perelra^ Op, cit.) 

Malt liquors (aicy beer and porter^) contain a larger 
quamity of eKtraotive and mucilagiaous matters de- 
rived ftx>m the malt out of which they were made than 
wini3Sk The proportion of these matters, compared with 
the nutritive ones in the barley, or evto the malt, before 
it was brewed, is very smalK The loss by malting and 
brewing, is repreisented to be seventy *fiVe per cent* The 
average quantity of extractive matter conCaioed in a pint 
or sixteen ounces of North River ale was 816 grains, or 
one«elev«nth Of the whole weight This gave n^irly 
nine ounces of solid matter to the gallon.* Owing to the 
presence of mucilaginous and extractive substances in 

* Bacchat— An Essay on the Nature, Causes, Effects and Cure 
of Intemperance, by Ralph Barnes Grinrod — edited by Df. Lee, of 
New- York, 1840. A very valuable work, even apart fVom the 
tiUi)>emnoe argiitaieBt. 



yGoogk 



352 ALCOHOLIC DBmxS. 

malt liquor, they always contain a free acid, and are 
greatly disposed to pass into the acetous fermentation^ 
or that process by which vinegar is formed. The sour 
taste in malt liquors is corrected partly ))y free sugar, 
or that which has not been decomposed by fermentation, 
and partly by the bitter flavour of the hop, the presence 
of which diminishes the tendency to the formation of 
an\ acid. 

Fermented liquors have been spoken of as the result 
of a natural process, themselves almost as a gift of na- 
ture for which we ought to thank Providence. This 
is a fallacy. Fermentation and the evolution of alcohol 
are the natural results of combinations alreMy detailed: 
these combinations may be formed naturally, but if so, 
they are in a very limited degree, and subject to so many 
interruptions that they would scarcely amount to any- 
thing. The making of beer and the making of wine 
are both of them a highly elaborate and even compli- 
cated manufacture. Among the many stages in the art 
of brewing, are those of grinding, mashing, hopping, 
boiling, cooling, cleansing, fining, attenuation, &c., in 
each of which the greatest care and caution are requisite 
on the part of the brewer, or an imperfect liquor is the 
inevitable result. In the manufacture of wine, there is 
the pressing, working, or fermentation in the vat, draw- 
ing off the new made wine into casks, or first racking, 
decond racking, by being put into other casks, sulphur- 
ing by burnt matches or exposure to sulphurous acid in 
the cask, to render the glutinous matter incapable of 
re-exciting fermentation, clarifying and fining. After 
being cellared, new cares are given to rendering it fit for 
market, such as to fill the casks after the carbonic acid 
has ceased to escape. 

If the juice of the grape were left to its natural 



yGoogk 



ALCOHOL NOT FORMCD BT DISTILLATION. 353 

chadgesy it would pass almost diriactly from tb^ vinoua 
fsnnentatioii^ by ivhich it is converted into wine^ to the 
acetous fermentation^ by which it is chat^ged into vinegar. 
This iast is reaiiy the natural product of the juice of the 
grap^, and more entitled to be thus called than wine is. 
Alcohol is in larger proportion^ but not differently 
c6mbined in spirituous liquors, or spirits^ as they are 
called by British writers, than it is in witte^ It is combined 
with water and some peculiar essential oil, from which 
the ftairour is more particularly derived. At one time 
it was believed, and the opinion is probably yet held 
by those who are ignorant of chemistry, that alcohol 
is fixed Or latent, as it were^ in fermented liquors, and 
is evolved, atni becomes free alcohol, by means of 
the heat of distillation alone. So far from tliis being 
true, we know now, that alcohol is generatod by fer- 
mentaltoQ^ and by fermentatioo alone, and that it is only 
procured in a more concentrated stale by the distillation 
of fermented fltiid$, or of s>abstances wii;h water in a 
state of fermentation. If distiliation could develop or 
evolve alcohol, miLsi or grape juice mixed with watery 
ought, when put into the still, to furnish this principle; 
but, in &ot, the only product is a mere tasteless vapcMOr. 
So sooHy hotinever, as tiie must is fermented saad poured 
into this stiU, it yields readily alcohol in large proportion. 
The cake, or msidne Of grapes after they kave been press* 
ed, ftMuettines tolled mur&9 mixed with water aind then 
fetmenled, will yield alcohol by distillation: but if it wore 
diatiUled before feormentation bad begun, ao spii^itsof any 
kind would oome over. So likewise, in 4he caso of graiti^ 
if the uuishy as the mixture of ground -malt and rye, 
barley, or oatmeal with w*ater is called, be subjected to 
distillaCioci^ no spirits ar<$ .produced: Hae mixture, or 
wash, must be subjected to amodeFate heait, and exposed 

30* 



yGoogk 



854 ALCOHOLIC DRINKS. 

to the air by repeated stirrings, until it ferments and ac- 
quires a vinous smell. It is then fitted, when put into 
the stilly to furnish spirits, or alcohol and water. 

The origin of alcohol, and the relative share which 
fermentation and distillation have each, respectively, in 
furnishing it, are well expressed by Dr. Ure, in his Dic- 
tionary of Chemistry y art. Mcohol. "As we are not able 
to compound alcohol from its ultimate constituents, [car^ 
bon, oxygen and hydrogen,] we have recourse to the 
process of fermentation, by which its principles are first 
extricated from the substances in which they were com* 
bined, and then united into a new compound; to dis* 
tillation, by which this new compound, the alcohol, is 
separated in a state of dilution with water, and con* 
tamiriated with essential oil; and to rectification, by 
which it is ultimately freed from them." The last stage 
is the conversion of common proof spirits inta alcohol^ 
for use in the arts, the only one to which alcohol, in any 
shape, is, with few exceptions, applicable. 

Farther and conclusive proof of the sameness of the 
mode of combination of alcohol in wine and spirits, is 
found in the readiness with which it can be procured from 
wme without distillation. Mr. Brcinde first showed how 
this could be done. By adding sugar of lead (aijbacetate 
of lead) to the wine, the acid and extiractive colouring 
matters were thrown down or precipitated, and then, by 
the farther addition to the clear liquor of dry carbonate 
of potassa, the alcohol rose to the surface, leaving the 
heavier water, with the potassa in solution, in the lower 
{lart of the glass tube in which the experiment was 
made. The same fact has since been established by 
Gay Lussac, who procured alcohol from wine by dis- 
tillation in vaeuOf at the low temperat^e of 60^ F. The 
mere removal of the pressure of the atmosphere was 



yGoogk 



IDENTITY OF THE INTOXICATINO PRINCIPLE. 355 

sufficient, in this case, to allow of the alcohol separating 
and rising from the wine or rather the water, with which 
latter and the extractive colouring matter and volatile 
oil and acid, it was combined to form wine. After these 
and other experiments of the like conclusive nature, we 
are fully warranted in saying, with Dr. Turner, that, in 
all spirits, such as brandy or whisky, the alcohol is 
simply combined with water; whereas, in wine, it is in 
combination with mucilaginous, saccharine, and other 
vegetable principles. 

It becomes the more necessary to establish, beyond 
denial, the fact, not only of the identity of the intoxi- 
cating principle in all spirituous and fermented drinks, 
but of its mode of union or c-ombination being the same 
in all, in order to enable usto ascertain, by a commoln 
standard, the proportionate quantity of intoxicating 
drinks used by the people of different countries. In the 
case of vegetable food, eaten in different and remote parts 
of the world by the people^ I showed that, however 
Various the sources of supply, — some being ftom grain, 
some from pulse, others from roots, and others, again, 
from the matter contained in the wood ofcertain palms^ 
•t-^there was one common principle which they all con« 
tained, and on which much of their nutritive properties 
depended. This is fecula, or starch. So, in the case of 
intoxicating drinks, we find, in all theur varieties, by 
whatever name they may be designated, and in vrhtt* 
ever esteem held^ therei is one common principle, that on 
which their intoxicating and chiefly noxious properties 
depend. This is alcohol. 

Dietetic value qf ^kokoUc Liguors.-^One of the 
claims most strongly urged in favour of alcoholic liquors 
as drink, is that they aid digestion both directly and :by 
eoriiecting disorders of this function. There is not a 



yGoogk 



d&i ALOOSOLIC DtllKKB. 

particle df proof of thte altegation, which, on the con- 
trary, is opposed to chemistry, physiology, ahd general 
observation and experience. The end and object of di-^ 
gestibn fe, ^rst^ the solution of the food, since nothing 
can be taken up by the absorbent tt^ssels, by them to be 
carriied into the blood, which is not in ^iutioo; and ^e- 
eendly^, the reduction of the diflferent ingredients of the 
food, already enumerated, into the most simple material 
of the animal processes^ namely, albumen^ which is 
found to be contained in the fluid resulting from the 
digestion of the food, partly in the state of solution and 
partly in globules. This, With slight additions, is the 
clea;r statement of the case by MQller. {Elements of 
Physiology i p. 479.) Let us see, next, how far alcohol 
or alcoholic liquors contribute to fulfil the indication laid 
do\^n. Has it any reducing property, such as water 
hai aAd weak acids have, when aided by heat? So far 
fW)m this, alcohol coagulates albumen and hardens the 
tnuscnlar fibre, and does not dissolve casein. It is on 
a^oimt of its being opposed to the reduction of aninud 
ndatter, either into a homogeneous pulp, such as is re* 
qmred for its conversion into chyme, or into a honooge* 
neons fluid, as we see in chyle, that alcohol is employed 
by anatomists and naturalists to preserve animal sub- 
iltances and objects itn natural history unchanged. 

Digestion, or the convexision of food into the some-^ 
What homogeneOtis^ pulpy mass, called chyme> is 
brought about in the stomach by Walter, by warmth, 
and by ^n add, the muriatic, and somntimes by an- 
other, the acetic, mixed with some mucus. Akohol is no 
ingredient in this mass, is vk6 part of the secretion from 
the stomach, or of gastric juice with its acids asd 
mtiousv Its presence, by intix>duction from WiAout, 
retands the change or reduction of the several articles 



yGoogk 



ALCOHOL KSTA&Bfl DiaSSTION. 967 

of food into chyme, and consequently interferes with, 
by retarding, the farther change or conversion of the 
fluid portion of this chyme into chyle, or the materials 
of chyle, which soon becomes blood. The chief compo- 
nent parts of chyme are albumen and casein, to the 
solution of both of which alcohol is opposed. 

Farther observations made, of late years, on the gas- 
tric fluids, by Eberle, Schwann and Muller, aH German 
physiologists, have almost rendered it certain, that the 
active animal matter in gastric digestion is a modifi- 
cation of mucus, termed p^sin^ or the digestive prin- 
ciple. The activity in pepsin is increased by its so- 
lution in acids, and they cause a change in substances 
analogous to that of digestion in the stomach. The 
combination of pepsin and acid seems indeed to be 
necessary for digestion. Very diflerent is the case with 
alcohol. Mailer says expressly, << alcohol and the boil- 
ing temperature render the digestive principle inert" 
It may be replied to these and some preceding ob- 
servations, that it is pure alcohol on which the ex- 
periments were made; and that, in common drinks this 
fluid is greatly diluted. This objection, however, at 
the very farthest, is merely in extenuation; alcohol, as 
i^r as it reaches the particles of food in the stomachy 
retards digestion; and if not greatly deleterious wheit 
drunk in tbe shape of spirits, wine or beer, this is owing 
to tbe smaller quantity, but not to any ohange or modi- 
fication of its mischievous properties. 

In confirmation of these chemico-physiological views 
and experiments, we have direct proof, derived from 
the changes which have been noted m the stomach 
of a living person, after drinking alcoholic liquors. 
Many of my readers have heard of the man who re- 
ceived a wound, which, though it healed, left an open- 



yGoogk 



3SS ALCOHOUIO BtttKKSi 

ing into his Btom&ch^ ^ large that a portion of iht 
cavity of this organ could be examined by another per- 
son at wilL Dr^ Beaumont had this man in his keep- 
ing for a long time, and made a great many ei?ceedingly 
interesting and Valuable eKperitnents on him> in illus- 
tration of digestion gieneraliy, as well as of the rela* 
tive digestibility of different artcles of food* Want of 
time aiid space prevents me from noticing niany of 
these^ which are recorded by Dn Beaumont in l\i8 
Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Mite, 
Among his ^observations were thode respecting the 
e^cts of alcoholic drinks on the stomach and dige^ 
tionjof this man (Alexis Stv Martin). He found, that 
they invariably interfered with the regularity and 
co^ipleteness of digestion; and, in reference to the 
morbid appearances of the tnucous or lining mem^ 
brtoe of the stomach, he tells us expressly: *< The free 
use of anient spirits, wines, beer^ or any intoxic&tlDg 
liquor, When continued for some days^ has invariably 
produced these morbid changes," p. 239. Ther^ are 
not always unpleasant feelikigs nor even din^inished 
aij^petite at first) with these diseased states of the sto« 
mach; and hence^ a person will deny for a while that 
he Suffolk from his alcoholic potations; but, ere longt 
disease manifests itself in various Ways^and by various 
sympi^ms> mcuiy of which indicate disorder of parts re^ 
m6te from the stomachy although the injury done to it 
was the primary and the chief cause. 

Equally fallacious with the belief of alcoholic liquors 
aiding digestion > is that of their efficacy in enabling 
those' Who drink them to encounter more fatigue, and 
to incur grater exposures of temperature and weather 
generally, than they could otherwise do* The very re- 
verse of all this is true. The recorded experience of 



yGoogk 



WINS IXCPROBmR IK X£ALTH. SS9 

men in all siluations and dimati^,*-Tunder all kinds of 
labour and exposure, pfoye. that abatinence from these 
drinks gives increased ability to go through the labours 
of tha farm and the woikahop, to resist heat and cold, 
and to enopupter hardships on sea and land, beyond 
what has ever been done under the unnalural esii* 
cdtement of alcofaal» ibllovired, aa it alwajps is^ hy de- 
pression and debility, if not by ferer and other diseases 
The observations of naval find military surgeons and 
oommanders are now pretty uniformly to Ihe sanie pur^ 
port, and their testimony is adverse to the issue of raUons 
of spirits, or of akoholie drinks generally, to inen in the 
army and navy. 

As respects the common use of wine, the subject is 
thus briefly yet clearly and pertinefitly dismissied in a 
few words by Dr, Pereira: — *^To persons in health, the 
diefetical employment of wine is either useless or per- 
nicious.^^ As a medicinal 9L%^n\ it must be directed by 
a physician with a knowledge of all the circumstance^ 
in the case of his patient, and of tl>e composition, proper- 
ties and effects of wine, similar to that whioh i§ expected 
of him in the prescribing other medicine& He must not 
evade his be^vy responsibility under the cover of poetry 
or jest, or in compliance with lasbion or Iha appe^ite^ ef 
))ia patient. If he have studied the effects of rinoiiis 
liquors, he will have learned that they k^p up^ if they 
do not bfing on, gout, rheumatism, disorders ci the «tOr 
nad), s^nd of the kkineys and sJcin^ and that the change 
Iroipa one kind of wine to another is of^y a change ia 
the morbid agent. 

MftH liquora, though of less alcoholic strengdi tfasft 
spirits aitd Most wines^ are capable of causing dnipke*- 
ness, and this is quite a common effect of their use. aa 
Snglapd* At first apparently moie ferourahk. to nulii^ 



yGoogk 



960 AX^COHOLIO DRINKS. 

tion than the other classes of alcoholic liquors, By the 
fnlMss and corpulency of frame which they induce, 
they are found to be after a while adverse to a ready 
and actiire discharge of the functions. The brain suffers, 
and the faculties are dull and sodden, or apoplexy strikes 
down the beer-bibber: the heart suffers, and there is 
hypertrophy and^retarded and irregular circulation, and 
danger of sudden death from this cause; the lungs suffer, 
and there is congestion, pneumonia, and not seldom 
dropsy of the diest. Other forms of dropsy also succeed 
to the free use of malt liquors, whidi kill more speedily, 
and with preceding symptoms of greater degradation — 
reduction of man to the mere brute, than even after the 
iiabitjiial use of ardent spirits. Some of the English 
writers, while they admit and deplore these deleterious 
teflSects of drinking malt liquors, attribute them to adul- 
-teration. They add, however, that the taste of the 
people generally is so vitiated by the adulterated, in fact 
poisonous beer and ale and porter, that even if the 
hrewers were all honest, they would not find customers 
for their purer liquors. 

A slight retrospect of the history of beer,— barley- 
wine, as it was called by the Egyptians,-^will show, 
that long anterior to modern inventions, by the in<- 
troduetion into it of coeeuhis indiouwj or Indian berry, 
blatk extr^oty or this berry with opium and other 
ingredients, ntix vomica, or Si. Ignatius*s bean, hen^ 
^ane, extract of poppies, copperas, capsicum, tcorm- 
wood, aloes, quassia^ be &c., this fieivourite EngUsii 
beverage was also a highly intoxicating one. The Ger- 
mans in the time of Tacitas could get drunk on beer, and 
fight, and shed each other's blood, very mttch in the 
same fashion in which our North American Indians 
enact similar scenes under the delirium caused by whis- 



yGoogk 



COMPARATIVB ALCOHOLIC SfATISTICS. 361 

key and rum. Grerman bravery was of no avail against 
a foreign foe, when subdued by drink; and in this state, 
as when the Marsi were surprised by Germanicus, they 
became an easy prey to their disciplined and vigilant 
enemies, the Romans. 

The descendants of these people, the Anglo-Saxons 
in England, did not abate much in their convivial and 
intemperate habits kept up by beer: and we may sup- 
pose that the revelry and dissipation in Harold's camp 
on the night preceding the fatal battle of Hastings, was 
maintained by potations of the national beverage. 

In our climate, even more than in that of England, 
the habitual use of malt liquors is decidedly injurious. 
He free acid, though partially disguised to the taste, is 
detrimental to digestion, and to all the assimilating 
functions; it is particularly inimical to the skin and the 
kidneys. 

In conclusion of this part of my subject, I shall submit 
a few estimates of the consumption of alcoholic liquors 
in Great Britain, France, and the United States. They 
will surprise, I know, many of my readers, who are 
little prepared to find that drunkenness and all its vile 
and wretched concomitants, prevail to an extent in 
France hardly exceeded by those which are so well 
known to exist in Great Britain and the United States. 

In France, the intoxicating liquors used are wine, 
cider, beer and brandy. I have not an estimate for 
1830, of the consumption of all these articles; that of 
cider and beer being of anterior date, viz. the former as 
given by Baron Dupin, in 1825, and the latter by a 
French Medical Journal for 1889. The manufacture 
and consumption of both of these drinks have, however, 
probably increased since the above dates, so that in 
giving the returns from the sources indicated, we keep 
31 



yGoogk 



362 iJLCOHOUC 9BIirK«. 

within the amount used in 1830. I hare selected thi^r 
year on account of the estimate of the maoufacture, 
consumption and sale of wine, as giren in page %28y 
being for that period. The several kinds of intoxicat- 
ing drink, and the quantities of each respectively drank 
in France, in 1830, are as follows:— 

GtllOBI. 

Wine, 611,466,000 

Cider, 234,121,000 

♦Beer, * - 124,000,000 

f Brandy, from wine and murk, ... 15,074,000 

Brandy, from cider, cherries, potatoes and grain, - 2,890,800$ 

Altoholic drinks of all kinds, .... 987,551,800 

* In the abo^e estimate of the quantity of beer drankf I bare 
taken the mean of Baron Dupin^s statement, which is about 
93,000,000, for 1823, and of the French Medical Journal for 1829, 
which is 155,000,000 gallons. 

f Redding gives, from a French official document, the amount 
of brandy made from wine and the murk, in the several de- 
partments in France, which is 821,960 hectolitres. From this 
must be deducted the amount exported; but as I find no retaro 
for 1830, 1 have made an estimate deduced from the amount ex- 
ported in 1828, as given by McCulloch, with the remark, that it 
has since decreased considerably. The export, in 1828, was 
403,207 hectolitres; in 1827, 273,574 hectolitres; in 1826, 194,110 
hectolitres. Now if we give the exportation for 1830, at 250,000 
hectolitres, we shall probably be in advance of the actual amount. 
Were I to take Dupin^s statement as the basis, being the yearly 
average from 1819 to 1823, the estimate of consumption would be 
much higher than that which I have adopted. He does not give 
the quantity in brandy, but he does in pure alcohol, which is 
560,988 hectolitres, from all sources, wine, cider, &;c. If we sup- 
pose that brandy has fifty per cent, of alcohol, and the analysis of 
Brande makes it fifty-three, then this amount in alcohol will re- 
present 1,121,976 hectolitres, from which, deducting the quantity 
exported for 1823, viz. 310,059, and there would remain for home 
consumption, 811,917 hectolitres, or 21,416,000 gallons of brandy. 

'^ DapiD. 



yGoogk 



ALCOHOL DaUNK IN VRANCS. 368 

' M. Dupin's estinniate is higher than mine in the pre- 
ceding statement, since he supposes the quantity of in* 
toxicating drinks consumed in France to be at the rate 
of forty-two gallons per individual, whereas, according 
to my estimate, the rate will not be much more than 
ihirty gallons, taking the population at thirty-two and a 
half millions, in 1830. 

Surprise will be felt by many at the quantity of beer 
consumed in France. As a memorandum which may 
aid to remove doubts on this head, it is worth while to 
note, that in 1824, the excise duties on beer in that coun- 
try, amounted to 9,252,300 francs, or about 1,800,000 
dollars. The chief manufacture, both of beer and cider, 
is in the northern part of France, and where also these 
drinks are chiefly consumed. 

In order to enable us to institute a comparison be- 
tween the habits of the French and those of other peo- 
ple, as respects their use of intoxicating drinks, we must 
reduce these to a common standard, which is done by 
exhibiting the quantity of alcohol in *each kind. Be- 
ginning with wine, I shall take the rate, adding a small 
fraction, adopted by M. Dupin, at least that which corre- 
sponds with two data laid down by him, viz» the quan- 
tity of wine distilled, 5,217,753 hectolitres, and the pro- 
duct in alcohol, 459,817 hectolitres, which would be at 
the rate of 6.8 per cent. According to Mr. Brande, 
the wines of Burgundy have from eleven to sixteen per 
cent, of alcohol, those of Champaigne, from twelve to 
fourteen. Claret (average) 15.10; but on the other hand, 
the common country wine {vin depays et vin ordu 
naire)j will hardly average more than four to five per 
cent The alcohol in cider, I shall estimate at seven 
per cent, being somewhat below the average given by 
Mr. Brande, who makes the analysis of two specimens, 



yGoogk 



864 ALOOHOLIO DBiirxs. 

at 9.87 and SM or 7.84. As resp^ts beer^ it is not so 
easy to establish a rate applicable to the varieties of 
strong and weak or small beer. But as more than four- 
fifths of the entire quantity of malt liquor made in 
France is, according to M. Dupin's statement, strong 
beer, I shall take five per cent, as its proportion of 
alcohol. Mr. Brande's analysis averaged for the four 
kinds of strong beer 6.30 per cent For brandy, my 
estimate will be fifty per cent, of alcohol; Mr. Brande 
makes it fifty-three. The sum total of alcohol in the 
difierent drinks used by the French people will, there- 
fore, be as follows: — 

Gallons. Gallons of AlcoboL 

In 611,466,000 of wine, at 9 per cent, is - - 55,000,000 

334,121,000 of cider, at 7 " . . • 16,388,470 

124,000,000 of beer, at 5 «> ... 6,200,000 

17,954,800 of brandy, at 50 «' ... 8,982,400 

987,551,800, averaging 8.7 per cent. - - - 86,570,870 

This will giver more than 2), or 2.66 gallons of pure 
alcohol, mixed up in various drinks, for every indi- 
vidual in France. The quantity used in the arts and 
manufactures is not, I believe, known; but if we 
were to give the surplus of the two gallons and a 
half, or 5,820,870 gallons, to these purposes, there 
would still be a fearful exhibition of the quantity of 
alcohol drunk in France. To gain an approximation 
to the amount really consumed by the persons who 
chiefly drink intoxicating liquors, we must deduct from 
the entire population one-third, being of children under 
twelve years of age, who are generally, we must hope, 
not consumers of these drinks; and of the remainder, 
we may suppose that one-half, or the women are in the 
same state. This, I know, is being more gallant to the 



yGoogk 



&EAX STATS OV V&JBNCB TBMPSBANCS. 365 

sex than accurate in the fact; for many of the women 
drink^ atd get drunk, and are in insane asylums on this 
accoimt. But we will suppose the women exempt, 
and there remain about ten millions and a half of 
males, of aU ages over ten years, who, if we take 
eightynone millions two hundred and fifty thousand gal- 
lons as the entire amount, after deducting what is used 
in the arts, consume alcohol, at the rate of 7.7 gal- 
lons annually per man,— distributed through various 
kinds of drinks; 

After this melancholy exhibition of the statistics of 
alcohol for France, the traveller who has lounged along 
the boulevards at Paris, and travelled thence post to 
Italy, will exclaim with amazement, — how is it, that, 
notwithstanding this immense consumption of intoxi- 
cating drinks by the French people, they should still 
be so temperate? The question then directly comes 
up, are they temperate? What is the experience of 
those persons who mix with the people in their fStes, — 
who look into their cabarets or small wine and brandy 
shops, — who watch the crowds returning into Paris of 
a Sunday evening from outside, the barriers, where 
they get wine cheaper than in the city,— who visit 
their hospitals, to note the causes of disease and of 
surgical injuries; and to make a record of their insane, 
and the causes of this disease, — who read the news- 
papers, and learn in them the origin of quarrels and 
duels between soldiers at a cabaret, and of disobedip 
ence of the men to their officers? With facts derived 
from these various sources, except the inspection of 
cabarets, I made myself acquainted during a twelve- 
month's residence in Paris. I there found cause to* 
modify very materially my former opinions of the tem- 
perance of the people of Paris, if not of France gene* 

31» 



yGoogk 



3^6 ALCOBOLtO DB1NK8. 

rally. Farther inquiry and reading have extended my 
knowledge on this subject, — but in a melancholy 
way, for they have made me cognizant of the startling 
fact, that drunkenness is becoming, has in many parts 
of France become, as much a national vice as it was, 
and still, al^s! greatly is, in the United States and the 
British empire. How indeed could it be otherwise, 
with the immense consumption, by the French people, 
of all kinds of alcoholic or inbxicating drinks. Some 
of the features of this moral blight have been pre- 
sented to the reader, on page 79 of this work, when 
the habits of the labouring classes in Nantz and Brest, 
and the farmers from the country around, were de- 
picted. 

M, yillerm6, who certainly is too much accustomed 
to statistical inquiries to indulge in speculation or ex* 
aggeration, and has too lofty a patriotism to be a de- 
tracter of his countrymen, says, that drunkenness is the 
greatest curse of the labouring classes in France. The 
workmen or operatives drink spirituous liquors, he tells 
us, at first without pleasure, and merely through imi- 
tation; soon to indifference succeeds an agreeable sen- 
sation; then an irresistible desire is felt, and a passion 
continually augmenting. 

<<It is thus that, gradually, and often by a rapid 
descent, a man passes from habits of sobriety to habits 
of intemperance, from the moderate use of intoxicating 
drinks to their abuse. Henceforth, everything becomes 
an occasion for the operative to visit the tavern, (caba^ 
ret:) he goes there when times are prosperous, because 
he gets high wages and has money; when he is for a 
while without work, because he has nothing to do; when 
be is happy, in order to enjoy himself; when he has 
domestic troubles, in order to forget them. In fine, it 



yGoogk 



VILLERMlfc A«D CHSVALUm <IU0T£J>. 367 

is at tiie tavern that be contracts debts^ that be paya 
them wben be can^ tbat he makes his bargains, that he 
contracts his friendships, &c., and that even he gives his 
daughter in marriage/' After describing the waste, 
idleness, indigence, turbulence, debasement, disease, 
shortening of life, vices and crimes which dmnkenness 
brings in its train, M. Villerm^ adds: << We may affirm, 
that drunkenness is truly the chief cause of the quarrels, 
of a great number of crimes, and of nearly all the disor- 
ders and irregularities which the operatives commit, or 
in which they take a part." {^nn. (T Hygiene, &c. T, 
XXIL, and Eclectic Journal of Medicine, Vol. IV. p. 
253-^.) Chevalier, in his treatise on <<The Preven- 
tion of Diseases among Printers,^' states, as the chief 
means, dissuasion from the excessive use of intoxi- 
cating drinks, and from frequenting petty taverns and 
pot-houses. Among the articles of advice which be 
suggests should come from the master-printers to their 
compositors and others, is to explain to them the dangers 
of intemperance in drink, or in any other indulgence. 
Among the considerations which he presses on the atten- 
tion of the workmen themselves, is to live in a becoming 
manner, and temperately; avoiding debauches, some- 
times of days' duration, to be atoned for by excessive 
labour and insufficient food. {^nn. d?Hyg. Pub. T. 
XIII.; and Eclect. Journ. Med. Vol. IV. p. 71-2.) 

After these statements of their own writers, the 
French people will not, probably, feel themselves scan- 
dalized by the following extract from the work of 
Mr. Bulwer, (Monarchy of the Middle Classes, Vol. L 
p. 119,) who, by the way, generally describes France 
in as favourable a light as possible. It is in reference 
to the workmen and operatives of Paris. << Hatters—* 
drunkards; tailors— vicious and dissatisfied; nappers 



yGoogk 



B68 ALCOHOLIC DBIHU. 

and cotton spinnera-^so wretched that no fitult shoutd 
be found with them; cabinet-makers— fond of drinkiog, 
but of quiet tempers; printers and analogous trades- 
drinkers; house-painters— drunkards, very careless; mar- 
ble cutters--drinkers and hot headed;< workmen in har- 
bours—exceedingly addicted to drinking; curriers- 
drunkards in the highest degree/' * 

M. Villerm^ in his essay, does not restrict his obser- 
vation to the operatives of Paris, but mentions those of 
Rouen, Saint Quentin, Lille, Rheims and Rhetel, as 
addicted to drunkenness. M. yillerm6 suggests various 
remedies for this wide-spread evil of intoxication, among 
which are appeals to the rational philanthropy of the 
proprietors and master-manufacturers combined with the 
efforts of the clergyman and the magistrate. He notices, 
in order to correct it, the mistaken opinion, that it is easier 
for a person to moderate the quantity of an accustomed 
stimulus than to forego its use altogether. Reformed 
drunkards seem to agree that such is not the case: the 
entire withdrawal is easier to bear than the limited 
allowance. The position, therefore, continues the French 
author,of the American Temperance Societies,is founded 
on just grounds,— Mflr/ entire abstinence from intoxi- 
cating liquors is the only certain remedy against in- 
temperance. M. Villerm6, in speaking of Temperance 
Societies in France, does not seem to be very sanguine 
of their success. " I consider (he says) the religious 
spirit of the United States as a powerful element in 
the success of temperance societies, which does not exist 
in our population.** 

Reference has been made to insanity in France, pro- 
duced by intoxicating liquors. The proofs of the fact 
are in the statistical reports of her own physicians.— 
It appears that, of 256 persons, received in the bos- 



yGoogk 



INSANITY IN FJUUIOS FROM AI.COBOLIC LK^UORS. 369 

pital at Citarenton^ near Paris, who were insane from 
physical causes, during the years 1836, 1827 and 1828, 
64, or one-fourth of the whole, had become so incdnse* 
quence of excess in the drinking of wine, {abus du vin.) 
Of these, there were twelve females.* In the insane 
asylum at Caen, M. Vastel reports nineteen patients, 
whose disease was brought on by intoxicating drhiks, 
(Uqueurs fortesy) of whom three were females. The 
whole number diseased from physical causes, was 51, 
and from moral causes, 109— total, 160. So that, of the 
insane from all causes, the proportion from drunkenness 
or its equivalent excesses, was as one to every eight and 
one-half. M. Vastel refers to the returns at Charenton, 
of whose inmates, he says, the proportion from drunken- 
ness is one-tenth of the entire number; and he also re* 
peats the results of M. Pinel's experience to a similar 
purport, viz. that out of two hundred and sixty-four 
cases of insanity, he noted twenty^ix as the effect of the 
abuse of spirituous liquors. {j3nn. d^Hyg. &c. T. VIIL) 
It may be alleged, that, as there is more drunkenness in 
the northern than in the southern portion of France, the 
inference in favour of the region of the vine ought to be 
&Yourable; but I have already stated that, although the 
people in the south are the producers^ yet the people of 
the north, and especially the inhabitants of cities, are 
the consumers. I have already exhibited the state of 
the producers of wine as anything but enviable. We 
can now see how far that of the consumers is better,or en-^^ 
titles them to be held up as an example to the people of 

* The reader, desirous of farther details and illustrative arj^u- 
ments on the whole question of the effects of intoxicating^ liquors, 
is referred to the Anniversary Report of the Pennsylvania Tero- 
pertnoe Society, (with a copious appendix,) for 1831— prepared 
and read by the author of this work. 



yGoogk 



370 ALCOHOLIC DRINKS. 

the United States^ in favour of the cultivation of the vine, 
with a view to the manufacture of wine— and brand y, 
for the two go together. 

The alcoholic and intoxicating drinks consumed in 
Great Britain and Ireland are comprised under the heads 
of beer^cider, spirits, and wine. 

It has been already stated in a former chaper, p. 124, 
that the quantity of beer of all kinds manufactured in 
Great Britain and Ireland in 1830, was upwards of nine 
millions and a half of barrels, or 322,000,000 gallons, of 
which the proportion made in Ireland would be about a 
million of barrels. The greater part of the beer brewed 
in England was that designated as strong, viz. 6,570,310 
bbls. — if, therefore, we estimate the proportion of alcohol 
in the whole 9i millions of barrels at 5 per cent, as was 
done in the calculations of French beer, we shall proba- 
bly be near the mark. The quantity of cider has been 
estimated at 4,725,000 gallons. That of ardent spirits, 
(we still speak of 1830,) was 27,708,831 imperial gal- 
lons; and of wine, 6,434,445 gallons, of which 2,889,608 
gallons were Portuguese, or we may say Port wine, and 
2,081,423 gallons of Spanish or chiefly Sherry, Catalonia 
and Malaga. The quantity of Madeira was but 217,000 
gallons. 

The proportion of alcohol in Port wine is, according 
to Mr. Brande, within a small fraction of 23 per cent; 
in Lisbon, 18; in Madeira, 23 per cent.; Sherry, Tone* 
rifle, and Vidonia, rising 19. As the quantity of French 
wines was a little over 400,000 gallons, and of German 
60,000 gallons, the former of which will average about 
13 per cent, the latter about the same, or 13, I can 
hardly be accused of overrating the alcoholic per centage 
if I make it 20 for all the foreign wines imported into 



yGoogk 



CONSUMPTION IN QRMAT BEITAIN. 371 

Great Britain. The proportion for spirits I estimate at 
50 per cent. The account will then stand as follows:— 





Gallon!. 


Gallon! of Alcohol. 


Beer, 


332,000,000 at 6 per cent* 


- - 16,100,000 


Cidef, 


4,725,000 7 do. - 


• - 330,760 


Wine, 


^434,445 20 do* - 


• . 1,280,889 


Spirits, 


27,708,831 60 do. - - 


13,864,416 



360,866,276 at a mean of 8.7 per cent. 31,672,064 

The population of Great Britain and Ireland, or of 
the United Kingdom/ was in 1830, about 24 millions 
and a half, so that the consumption of alcohol distri- 
buted through different drinks, would be at the rate of 
lv28 gallons per individual. But if, as in the case of the 
estimates of French alcoholic produce and consumption^ 
we allow for use in the arts a certain quantity, and fix 
this as equal to the surplus fraction over 1.25 or ^j^, it 
will leave the consumption in the United Kingdom equal 
to one and a quarter gallons per individual. I have not 
the means of ascertaining, nor do I know that there is 
any authentic record of the quantity of alcohol con- 
sumed in the demands of the arts and for scientific pur- 
poses in France and Great Britain. The reader can, 
however, readily make the necessary allowances under 
this head, if he should have at any time the positive 
data before him. The proportion 6f alcoholic consump- 
tion of drinks in France was, in 1830, to that in Great 
Britain and Ireland, as just two to one, person for per- 
son. How different this result of figures, which it is 
believed represent here the facts, from the prevalent 
notions on the relative temperance of the two countries. 

I have not the data before me, to ascertain the dimi^ 
nution in the quantity of alcoholic liquors, made and 
drunk in the United Kingdom since 1830, but we may^ 



yGoogk 



37d ALCOHOLIC DKI9X8. 

readily believe that it has been, at any rate in Ire- 
land, considerable. Opposed to this opinion, however, 
is that of Mr. Farr, who says that the consumption of 
intoxicating liquors has increased faster than the popu- 
lation in the last twenty years. Of France we cannot 
express the same favourable opinion, as the writings of 
Villermi and others, deploring the extended evils of 
drunkenness, record the state of things subsequent to 
1830. 

The two kinds of intoxicating drinks most largely 
manufactured and drunk in Great Britain are beer and 
spirita In Ireland, spirits constitute the chief intoxi- 
cating beverage; the quantity of beer being smaiL 
Drunkenness, with all its precursors, concomitants and 
effects, is most largely induced by ardent spirits. Re- 
cords, of every description, show what a curse these 
liquors are to the country. The subject was brought 
before public attention in a more authentic and authori- 
tative shape, in a Parliamentary Report, in 1834, by a 
<< Committee of Inquiry into Drunkenness," the chairman 
of which was the well-known writer and traveller, Mr. 
James Silk Buckingham. Under the head of the Conse- 
quences to Individual Character ^ the committee report, 
« Destruction of health and disease in every shape; pre- 
mature decrepitude in the old; stunted growth and 
general decay and debility in the young; loss of life by 
paroxysms, apoplexies, drownings, burnings, and ac- 
cidents of various kinds; delirium tremens j one of the 
most awful afflictions of humanity; paralysis, idiotcy, 
madness, and violent death, as proved by numerous 
medical witnesses, who have made this the subject of 
their long and careful investigation. 

« 7. Destruction of mental capacity and vigour, and 
extinction of aptitude for learning, as well as of indis- 



yGoogk 



BAD EFVECTS OF BABB-DRINKING. S79 

position for practising any useful art or industrious oc- 
cupation. 

<<8. Irritation of all the worst passions of the heart: 
hatred^ anger, revenge^ with a brutalization of disposi- 
tion that breaks asunder and destroys the most endearing 
bonds of nature and society. 

^ 9. Extinction of all moral and religious principle; 
disregard of truth, indifference to education, violation of 
chastity, insensibility to shame, and indescribable de- 
gradation; as proved by clergymen, magistrates, over- 
seers, teachers and others, examined by your committee 
on all these points.''^ {Report j — Printed by order of the 
Hoicse of CommonSy^f. 4.) 

This melancholy picture, in all its distorted features 
and darkest shading, is, unhappily, the precise repre- 
sentation of daily disasters from a similar cause in the 
United States. Happily, from year to year, especially 
since 1830, its repulsive points are becoming softened; 
and we may hope that in the course of another genera- 
tion an entirely different representation will be ex- 
hibited of the dietetic morals of our land. 

I believe that it was Mr. Buckingham's wish, to ex- 
tend the « Parliamentary Inquiry'' into the effects of 
malt liquors; but as the whole subject was in a measure 
new to the members, and they feared either to shock 
popular prejudices, or to exhibit a state of things which 
might lead to a diminution of his Majesty's excise, 
Mr. B. was overruled. If the inquiry had been ex- 
tended, in the manner suggested, it would have brought 
to light, or rather put on more formal record, a series 
of evils to individuals and the community, resulting 
from the general use of malt liquors, analogous to, and 
in many cases rivalling, those which follow in the 
train of ardent spirits. Others may be less annoyed by 
32 



yGoogk 



S74 ALCOHOLIC DBINK8. 

the drunkenness without clamour of the beer-bibber, 
but he himself suffers deeply, becomes heavy, stupid, 
and sullen, and approaches, in body and mind, more 
nearly to the swine, than does the gin and whiske7 
drinker, who, if he feels flattered by the comparison, 
may be said to exhibit more resemblance to the tiger or 
the mad dog. The active and observing, may we not 
say practical, friends of temperance in Great Britain, 
are so fully persuaded of the pernicious effects of the 
use — so soon running into the abuse — of malt liquors, 
that they practise, and recommend to others, entire ab- 
stinence from this class, as from all other kinds of in- 
toxicating drinks. The testimony is abundant and 
varied in favour of this total-abstinence practice.* 

The statistics of the manufacture and consumption of 
alcoholic drinks are too defective in the United States 
to admit of my giving a statement of the subject, in 
figures, analogous to that furnished for France, and 
the one for Great Britain and Ireland. Of the quantity 
of cider and of beer made, I have no returns, official 
or otherwise. A few years ago, there was a great 
deal of cider made in the apple regions, and of brandy 
distilled from it and the apples, fermented with water. 
That there is improvement in this last particular, we 
may properly infer from the returns of the amount of 
the products of the orchard, in Vermont for example, 
which, in 1840, were 1,109,387 dollars, compared with 
the number of distilleries, three, and the quantity dis- 
tilled, 3,500 gallons. 

If we fix our attention on the two kinds of intoxi- 
cating liquor which contain the most alcohol, viz. spirits 

* See, among other docaments, the TlUrd Rqwrt of the New 
Britith and Foreign Temperanu Society ^ '. 



yGoogk 



CONSUMPTION IN THE UNITSD STATES. 375 

and wine, consumed in the United States in 1830, we 
are startled at the terrific quantity of the first of these 
liquors, viz. spirits, which, by different writers at the 
time, was estimated to be seventy-two millions of gal- 
lons. The population was then not quite thirteen 
millions; which would give for each individual five and 
a half gallons, — or of pure alcohol, two gallons and 
three-quarters, without taking into the account wine, 
beer or cider. If we deduct from our entire population 
one-third, as being under twelve years of age,* and 
either nQt consuming, or using it in relatively small 
quantities, and deduct from the remainder, one-half, as 
belonging to the female sex, and also non-consumers,— 
but this is merely conventional politeness as regards a 
great many of them, — and there remain about 4,350,000 
who were the regular drinkers, and whose allowance of 
spirits, per man, must therefore have been more than 
I6i (16.6) gallons, or of alcohol, eight and a quarter 
gallons. 

The wine of all kinds, consumed in the United States 
in 1830, may be estimated at about three millions of gal- 
lons, or not a quart for each person, annually. As the pro- 
portion of French wines is greater than in the English 
importations, we may rate the per centage of alcohol 
at eighteen, on an average for the whole. This will 
give, of alcohol, five hundred and forty thousand gal- 
lons, — and add something to the fearful amount of 
ardent spirits. 

But, while thus picturing the state of things in 1830, 
and the <bad eminence' to which our country had 



■ * The estimate of the proportion in this case, as well as of the 
two sexeSf is not meant to be ris^idly accurate, indeed the first is 
merely approzimati?e. 



yGoogk 



376 ALCOHOLIC DRINKi. 

reftcbed in the consumption of alcoholic liquors, it is but 
right, before dismissing the subject, to know, that a 
happy change is coming over us in this particular at 
least. The entire product of the distilleries in the 
United States, in 1840, as given in the American Al- 
manac for the present year, was 36,343,236 gallons. 
The imports over the exports of spirits may be estimated 
at 2,500,000 gallons; and of wiue, at 4,000,000 galloDS, 
leaving, at the rates abeady given, rather more than 
a gallon and a quarter of pure alcohol per individual, for 
a population of seventeen millions of persons, or, a pro* 
portionately reduced consumption of more than one half 
the quantity of intoxicating drinks, chiefly of ardent 
spirits, in a period of ten years. The reduction in the 
quantity of cider consumed, has fully kept pace with 
that of the stronger liquor. I will not affirm the same 
of beer, though, on this point, I have not the requi^te 
data at hand. To sum up for 1840, the statement will 
stand thiis: 



GalloBi. 




Gallon! of Aleobol. 


Home spirits, 36,343,236 


at 50 per cent. 


18,171,618 


Foreign spirits, 2,500,000 


H (( 


1,250,000 


Wines, 4,000,000 


18 


720,000 


Beer, 






Cider, 







42,843,236 20,141,618 

If we suppose the real consumers to be equal to about 
5,700,000 persons, or a third of the entire population, 
there would have been for each person six and four- 
fifth gallons of spirits of all kinds, and two and four- 
fifth quarts of wine, together, equal to three and a half 
gallons of pure alcohol, being a reduction from the con- 
sumption of 1S30, or in a period of ten years, of more 
than 57 per cent. 



yGoogk 



CHAPTER XV. 

LONOBVITr. 

Desire for longevity natural and proper^Influence of the aged— 
Worth and genius more inflaential with length of years— Causes 
of longevity— Inherited predisposition — A good physical educa- 
tion — Great bodily strength not necessary — Average intellectaal 
and moral energy— Strong passions a draw-back— Regularity and 
temperance — Early rising— Simplicity of diet— Inherited weak- 
ness increased or abated by the mode of life— Climate— Specific 
inquiries— The influence of sex — Females attain greater longevity 
than males— Fluctuations, in different ages, in the two sexes.— 
il^6— Increased mortality in early life— Maximum of vitality— 
when reached— Modifications by climate — When suicide is most 
frequent. i?a^— Greater mortality in the black race. Climate and 
LA)cality^Hot climates not preventive or curative in consumption 
— Acclimation— Residence for two or three years does not diminish 
mortality in hot climates— Difference in mortality between town 
and country. Seasoju iwd TemperatiMre^Cold adverse to vitality, 
particularly in the young and the old— Extreme heat in cities de- 
structive of infknt life— Suicide, when most frequent^ Ckcupations 
modifjring vitality— Intemperance the chief morbid agent— Pic- 
tures of in France and England— Military life adverse to longevity 
— Vaccination— Insanity— Mortality in different nations. 

'* Age aits with decent grace upon his visage, 
And worthily becomes his silver locks; 
He wears the marks of many years well spent. 
Of virtue, truth well tried, and wise experience." 

Mbn, when not insensate by evil passion and evil 
habits^ with whatever cares they may be opprest, and 

32* 



yGoogk 



378 LONGEVITY. 

in every variety of situation and circumstance, naturally 
look forward to the probability of their entering into the 
vale of years, with matured experience and chastened 
feelings. Longevity is not only desired, but desirable, 
if sought after in the true spirit of medical philosophy, 
and of religious morality. The virtues of old age seem 
to exhibit human nature at its culmination; they at 
once carry with them the most eloquent precept and 
impressive example. Never does the triumph of moral 
over brute force appear more conspicuously, than in the 
persuasive voice of old age, arresting the hand of vio- 
lence, turning away from his career of conquest and of 
rapine, the ruthless warrior, or calming the wild passions 
of an infuriated crowd, wrought up to attempt an indis- 
criminate destruction of life and property. Alexander 
of Macedon, when he approached Jerusalem, in all the 
exaltation of victory over Darius, and fully intending 
to give the city up to plunder, could not refrain from 
prostrating himself before the Jewish high priest, and 
thus worshipping the Deity in the venerable person of 
his aged minister. Attila, that terrible scourge of the 
human race, was, for once, stayed in his bloody march 
to Rome, by the aged St. Leon, whose impressive warn- 
ing had more power over the barbarian king, than armed 
legions. On a lengthened span of years would seem to 
depend not only the completion of their possessor's own 
fame, but the glory, perhaps safety, of his country, and 
the establishment of a grand principle involving (he 
happiness of future millions. Men, towards the close 
of a long life, would seem, in giving their experience, to 
be almost able to convert history into prophecy. The 
Roman senate, wavering on the manner they should 
receive the propositions of Pyrrhus, for peace and di- 
vided rule la Italy, were only called back to a sense of 



yGoogk 



DANDOLO — LA FAYETTE. 379 

their own dignity, and to the prond determination never 
to accept terms from an enemy, by the zealous counsel 
of Appius Claudius, who, though old, infirm, and blind, 
was roused by the emergency, and had himself carried 
to the senate house, where he spake as an oracle, in 
predicting Rome's future greatness. And, in fact, by 
their subsequent resistance and final success over Fyrr- 
hus, the Romans acquired a loftiness of sentiment, and 
enlargement of power, with the reputation of being in- 
vincible, which soon after gained them all Italy and 
Sicily, and finally the dominion of the world. Dandolo, 
« blind old Dandolo," was eighty-four years of age when 
he was made Doge of Venice; and yet the remaining 
ten years of his life were among the most eventful in the 
history of the republic, into whose counsels he infused 
a vigour and determination which would have been in 
vain attempted by a young man. Converting the arms 
of the crusaders to the benefit of his country, he eventu- 
ally led them on to the storming of Constantinople, and 
was the first to plant the standard of St. Mark on the 
Walls of that city. Finally, to the ducal was added, by 
his companions in arms, the imperial crown, which he 
resigned for the less imposing, but more substantial 
honour of Duke of Romania. 

Who, at the time, did not see in the prolonged life 
of the consistent La Fayette, the history of liberty for 
the preceding fifty years; and who did not feel that 
the triumph of liberty was more complete when he, 
the representative of its suffering during the times of 
anarchy and of military conquest, was, by national 
acclaim, hailed as its patriarch, and the depositary of its 
charter. La Fayette, unable to save the monarchy and 
constitutional liberty in the first revolution, led, subse- 
quently, a life of virtuous retirement, and matured his 



yGoogk 



380 LOiresyiTT. 

energies for that struggle^ when, in the evening of his 
daysy his services were again called for, with such honour 
to himself and benefit to his country. Contrast him 
with that great bad man, his compatriot Mirabeau. The 
latter had a mind of the highest order, and eloquence 
the most commandmg and impressive; but his com- 
mentary on national liberty, was personal licentiousness; 
and hence, his promise to save his country from anarchy, 
and king from the scaffold, was rendered vain by a pre- 
mature death — ^the direct effect of the grossest licentious- 
ness, and neglect of those laws of hygiene, on which 
longevity so much depends. Had such men as Fox 
and Sheridan attached more importance than they did 
to the means of attaining longevity, they would have 
been more attentive to those maxims of temperance and 
worldly prudence, by which the sphere of a man's exer- 
tions in the cause of humanity and patriotism are so much 
enlarged; and they would have retained the ability, in 
a healthy advanced age, of being their country's pilots 
amid the storm, as they had been its forward watch to 
announce danger. The principles of the whig opposition 
would not then have suffered so signally as they did, by 
Fox, its great leader, receiving a stipend from his po- 
litical partisans and friends, in the shape of a subscrip- 
tion; an acknowledgement, in fact, of his necessities, 
which, together with disease, were the results of his 
intemperate extravagance. Poor Sheridan, with all his 
oratory and wit, became an outcast from society — a 
drunken, fallen and degraded man. 

Why, in the instances of Savage, Bums, and B]nron, 
were genius and fine feeling clouded, and made at 
times to appear as a curse to their possessors, and a 
calamity to their fellow mortals? Why should the de- 
light which we experience before the majesty of in- 



yGoogk 



CAUSES OF LONOEVITT. 381 

tellect^ clothed in the harmony of song, be marred in 
their persons? Why, but because they proudly neglected, 
aye^ scorned, the plain precepts of temperance, and had 
no ambition to enter into the vale of years. Had they 
consented to look forward to such a termination, they 
would, while retaining, have augmented their energies, 
sublimated still further their ideas, and have passed their 
earthly bourne with the pure, yet brilliant light of the 
setting sun, and not sunk like a meteor, filling the people's 
mind with awe and doubt. MoraUty would then have 
had less cause to disclaim the alliance of genius; nor 
would small minds be so ready to believe in the base 
maxim, that stormy passions are the necessary accom- 
paniments of iofty intellect. 

Causes op LoNGEViTr. — How is longevity to be at- 
tained? — ^The conditions are of a somewhat diversified 
nature. A first and important requisite is, to be bom 
of long-lived parents; for in this, as in almost every other 
corporeal predisposition or peculiarity, much is inherited* 
We sometimes meet with whole families, in which Ion-* 
gevily would seem to be a privilege, as in that of Parr, 
who lived 152 years — his father and his own children 
and grand-children, attained to a great age. This te-* 
nacity, if we may so express it, of life, enables an indi- 
vidual to resist many of the causes of disease and decay, 
which others, less fortunately gifted, would sink under. 
However unable we may be 16 explain the fact, or assign 
the peculiar conformation or temperament evincive of 
this long-lived tendency, it is hardly more surprising 
than that innate vigour of intellect and power of genius, 
whidi rise superior to the operation of most of the causes 
which would debase and brutify ordinary minds. Some 
will be ready to exclaim, that as longevity is a gift in-^ 
herited from birth, it matters not to make any further 



yGoogk 



382 LONOEVITT. 

inquiries; the chief condition being one beyond our 
control. But it is with this, as with all the other gifts 
of mind, person, or fortune, which we inherit from our 
progenitors — we may squander away the richest store, 
and render it profitless; or by care in husbanding a small 
stock, render it available for a long series of years. 
Health and strength will be readily lost by vice and 
idleness — while a tendency to hereditary disease, as of 
gout, insanity, or consumption, will be overcome by 
temperance, in its extended sense. 

A good physical education is an important requisite 
for longevity. There is a greater chance of this being 
obtained by persons resident in the country, and early 
inured to a life of activity and toil: with many, the ex- 
posure is excessive, and premature debility and death 
are the consequences; but they who survive this severe 
training, have acquired augmented powers of resistance 
to the ordinary causes of bodily decay. This gives me 
an opportunity of remarking, that no class of persons 
are so uniformly obedient to some of the most important 
hygienic rules, as they who are commonly said to laugh 
at all rules — we mean labourers in the field, peasants 
and farmers. They are remarkable for their regularity 
in the hours of labour and repose, as well as of eating; 
they soon suffer from any notable deviation in this 
respect. 

Great corporeal strength, whether acquired in labour, 
or in the training for athletic and pugilistic sports, is not 
favourable to longevity. The muscles attain to an un- 
natural growth, and the organs of nutrition, too highly 
stimulated by much substantial aliment, are easily 
thrown into fatal inflammation. Hippocrates made 
this remark of the athletee of Greece, and it is equally 
applicable to the pugilists, porters, and coal-heavers of 



yGoogk 



STUPIDITY ADVERSE TO LONGEVITr. 383 

Great Britain. Hence the circumstances under which 
the human body can attain to its maximum of growth 
and of dynamic power, are not those the most favour- 
able to longevity. Few, who have arrived at a great 
age, were ever remarkable for Herculean frame or great 
bodily prowess. 

I do not at this time remember an example of a 
fool, or of an idiot, ever having attained to a very ad- 
vanced age. Old persons, by a wearing out of their 
faculties, occasionally become fatuitous^ but this is a 
consecutive, not primary state. Some activity of the 
functions of the brain and nerves — that is to say, of the 
mind and senses, is essential to that freedom of muscular 
motion and healthy circulation of the blood, on which 
length of life so much depends. It is for want of the 
nervous excitement, called into play by the attainments 
of early life and constant collision in civilized society, 
that the savage is seldom long lived. So soon as his 
limbs fail him in the chase, he has no longer any occu- 
pation or amusement; his faculties become torpid, and 
his fluids stagnate. 

Change of scene, travel, and diversified adventures, 
have often marked the life of those who have reached 
a great age. They who have followed agricultural 
pursuits, appear conspicuously on this list. The in- 
ference is, that living much in the open air, and regular 
daily exercise, are favourable to longevity. The rich, 
as well as the poor, have found their full account in 
acting up to this principle; among the former by far the 
greater number of long livers have been distinguished 
for their free exercise in the open air, either in the sports 
of the field or in travel. This is more particularly true 
of the period of their youth, on the manner of passing 



yGoogk 



884 LONOEvrrr. 

which, greatly depends the complexion of fature life 
and bodily health. 

Devotion to study and scientific pursuits, is by no 
means unfavourable to longevity, if those so addicted 
do not indulge too much the caprices of appetite, and 
deprive themselves of fresh air and exercise, and a due 
period for sleep. The annals of literature and science 
abound in examples of long livers. 

But men can rarely flatter themselves with reaching 
this lengthened term, who are a prey to such contending 
passions as ambition, jealousy, envy, hate, and, in fact, 
unrestrained emotions of any class. Hence we find that 
contentment and serenity of mind, a well regulated 
moral sense, and trust in Providence, are powerful aids 
to our attaining longevity. This has been, with few 
exceptions, the frame of mind of all those whose lives 
have been protracted beyond the usual span. A fact 
like this requires no commentary. 

It is impossible to abide by this last condition without 
leading a life of some regularity, and marked tem< 
perance. A man may be at one time at sea, at another 
on shore, sometimes in camp, and again enjoying rural 
quiet; and yet he is not necessarily deprived of the 
privilege of dividing his time agreeably to some method 
— taking his repast at regular hours, and sleep at stated 
intervals. 

There is hardly any one point on which there is such 
entire accordance in practice among long livers, as in 
early rising, which implies, also, retiring to bed at a 
stated early hour in the evening. Deprivation of sleep 
is peculiarly exhausting; no effort at renovation, by any 
other means, can supply its place. Feebleness of body, 
premature old age, and insanity, are some of the effects 
of protracted vigilance. Too much, or too little exer- 



yGoogk 



SIMPLICITY OF DIET. 385 

cise of the functions of the animal economy, is nearly 
equally unfavourable to the enjoyment of sleep. The 
former produces pain of the joints and limbs, and fever, 
as in soldiers after forced marches, or labourers over- 
worked; the latter does not adequately exhaust the ac- 
cumulated excitability of the locomotive and sensitive 
apparatus, and hence wakefulness, restlessness, and 
what is commonly called nervousness. Similar ex* 
tremes in the exercise of the internal nutritive organs 
are to be deprecated for the same reason, — the rest of 
inanition, or of protracted abstinence, is as contrary to 
nature as inordinate stimulation by excessive repletion 
and intoxicating drinks. Sleep flies, in the first state, 
and is heavy and apoplectic, or disturbed by frightful 
dreams in the second. 

The food of those most remarkable for their longevity, 
has been plain, and even coarse. Simplicity of diet is 
all-important: A man's health will suffer, by using 
promiscuously, various articles of food, any one or two 
of which, alone, would sustain him in all the plenitude 
of bodily vigour, for a long lifetime. On this point, the 
annals of both the^ich and the poor, who have been 
candidates for longevity, exhibit considerable uniformity 
of dietetic practice. And here we may take occasion to 
observe, that, as every exertion exhausts rigour, and 
every protracted excitement is followed by lassitude^ we 
but enfeeble our bodies, and render them more readily 
operated on by the causes tending to their destruction, 
when we force our organs, digestive, circulatory, and 
respiratory, and the ones in subservience to them of ab- 
sorption, secretion, nutrition, and the evolution of ani- 
mal heat, into a state of action beyond what is called for 
by the wants of nutrition. GrOut, apoplexy, excessive 
obesity, and oppression of the functions, which are the 
33 



yGoogk 



086 LoKOsytT)r» 

product of free living, especially great eating; and in- 
flammatioiis of the brain, heart, lungs, liver, stomach 
and kidneye, and fatal fevers, one or more of which may 
be brought on by the use of strong drinks, are proofs 
and admonitions to which no reasoning man can be 
insensible. 

It will be alleged, that there are instances of drinkers 
of ardent spirits and vinous liquors, even some gour- 
mands, who have been long livers. The fact may be 
so; but it would be moist unphilosophical to draw an 
inference in favour of siKh bad habits. It has pleased 
tbe Creator to endow us wltti powers of endurance and 
resistance, amid the exposures to which we are led either 
in the performance of duty or the gratification of appe- 
tite. But there are limits to these powers, varying, it 
is true, with the individual, although still ascertainable 
with tolerable accuracy. 

Persons much in the open air, such as labourers and 
pedestrians, who have their due quantum of sleep, and 
use simple aliment, evince little sensibility, and can, on 
this account, take a daily dose, or more, of ardent spirit, 
without, as the popular phraise is, their feeling it; that 
is, withoiut its intoxicating, or throwing them into a 
fever, as it would the sechided mechanic, leaning over 
his work, and irritable citizen, confined all day to his 
desk or counter. Distinct from their occups/tioDs and 
early physical education, there is also a notable dif- 
ference in the excitability of individuals from binti--^ 
some tolerating, without complaint, atmospherieal ex- 
tremes of temperature, and internal stimulation, which, 
to others^ wouW prove painfully perturbatii^. 

But lK)wever various the temperaments of men, and 
unexpected their idiosyncrasies, there is hardly an in* 
dividual, who has not a predisposition to be readily a^ 



yGoogk 



CONSERVATIVE IIfPJ4l|JBIK>£ OF TEMPERANCE. QSl 

fect^d by morbid and inflammiktory actio© of one organ, 
in prefwrence to ih© othew: and we may add, that an 
unavoidable effect of all stimulants, not directly atimen* 
tary, as well as of excessive alimentation itself, is to in- 
crease this predisposition, er tendency to the disease, and 
even actually to bring it on. On the other hand, it is a 
matter of familiar experience, that such tendencies have 
been rendered pearfectly harmless by strict temperance, 
verging on abstemiousness. In &3e, the question may 
be reduced to these two maxims:— -first, that by dietetic 
(rules, and those rules consisting mainly in the use of a 
few pkin articles of food, and simple water fbr drink, 
men tottering on the borders of the grave, have pro- 
longed their lives for a series of years, in the enjoyment 
of good health and cheerfulness, usefully to society, and 
honourably to then^selves: — second, that the exhaustion 
and infirmities of lingering disease, the habits of a vale« 
tudinarian, have never been completely removed, or 
more than barely palliated by a course of what is called 
generous living, and a liberal allowance of strong drinks. 
Temperance haa not only a preservative, but a recu- 
perative operation. It prevents many diseases, and is 
the indispensable auxiliary to any remedy, or series of 
remedies, for the cure of diseases actually present It is 
even superior, on many occasions, in its curative powers, 
to all other remedies, however skilfully combined by the 
arts of pharmacy and medicine. By the use, on the 
other band, of strong drinks, and highly seasoned food, 
or of either singly, there is imminent danger — a perpetual 
invitation to evils, which would otherwise never have 
made their approach. Original phlegm of constitution, 
and the force of habit, oocasionally render men able to 
indulge, without apparent suffering, in the use of strong 
drinks; especially if the countervailing agencies of simple 
diet, much exercise in the open air, and regular sleep, be 



yGoogk 



368 LONOXTITT. 

in operation at the time. But, were an argument in 
favour of these drinks to be urged on such a foundation, 
we might, with equal plausibility and logic, insist on the 
salutary effects of the free and general use of various 
liquid preparations of opium, hemlock, and henbane. 
These substances are at times sanative: but much and 
frequently used, they are known to wear out the energies 
of life, and to abbreviate its course. In fine, the weak may 
become strong, the sickly enjoy health, the imminence of 
death give way to the enjoyments of a long life, by the 
substitution of simple aqueous drinks for vinous and 
distilled liquors; and he who seemed to be djring at forty, 
has, by the reform, been hale and hearty at eighty. 

Climate has a notable effecton longevity. To say 
nothing of those regions of the world proverbially sickly, 
it is known, that the extremes of great and prolonged 
cold, near the poles, and of heat, in the equatorial re- 
gions, are adverse to long life. The first prevents the 
due development of the animal frame, and enfeebles its 
functions; the second excites and wastes the powers of 
life, and brings on premature old age and decay. We 
have more examples of longevity, however, in cold and 
temperate climates, than in hot ones. Russia, Norway, 
Denmark, and Great Britain, furnish the greatest num- 
ber of individuals who have attained to a very great 
age. But, even in southern climates, temperance and 
abstemiousness, by countervailing, in a measure, the 
excitement and exhaustion produced by heat, have given 
their votaries long life. Of these facts, we have une- 
quivocal proof, in the history of the Christian recluses 
of Asia and Africa, in the early ages of the church. 

After these preliminary reflections on the subject of 
longevity in general, which are nearly a repetition of 
those I offered in the Journal of Healthy Vol. II., some 
years ago, we ought, when we inquire into its causes 



yGoogk 



Hf ODIFIXD BY a£x. 889 

and modifying circumstaDce in detail, to do so under 
the heady first, of those inherent in and peonliar to 
the individual; second, of those external and ooea* 
sional or adFentitions. Under the first will come sex, 
age and race, to which some may add temperaoient 
Under the second are enumerated climate, season, lo* 
cality , occupation and mode of life in general. My re« 
marks on each of these will be brief. 

I. Sex. If it be a question to be determined, which 
of the two sexes has the greatest prospect of longerity, 
then, as part of the geneml subject, it will be adced, 
which of the two is the most numerous at the beginning 
of life. The reply is, that there are more boys bom 
than girls, in the proportion of sixteen of the former to 
fifteen of the latter. The main question of greatef 
longevity is determined in fiivour of the female sex. 
The original difference in ftiyour of the males, on the 
score of numbers, and consequently chances of longevity, 
IS done away with by greater mortality in early life, 
and also later in life, on account of intemperance, ex* 
cessive fatigue, multifarious exposures and wars. Even 
a cause of death peculiar to females, that of child-birth, 
is not sp operative as from violent deathe among men. 
In England, in 1838,2811 women died in child-birth, 
while 8369 males and only 3368 females died violent 
deaths. The mortality attributed to intemperance was 
of 125 males and 36 females. 

But there are primary causes inherent in the orgs^ni- 
zation of the male, which are active, even before birth, 
in his destruction. Thus, it has been found that the 
proportion of still-born males is greater than that of 
still-born females. On an average of twenty births, 
there is one child stillborn. In illegitimate children, the 
proportion is two in twenty-four. la West Flanders, 

33* 



yGoogk 



390 LONOSVITY. 

according to M. Quetelet, the proportion' of stilUbom 
males to still-bom females, was as foiirteen to ten: it was 
the same in Berlin.* Still illustrative of the fact of dif- 
ferences of original organization and consequent im- 
pressibility in the males by agents to which both sexes 
are equally exposed, is the fact mentioned by Dr.. Emer- 
son, in reference to mortality in early Ufe in Philadelphia. 
<< It is/' he tells us, <<a fact of the highest interest, that 
although the males at birth, for the whole period (of tea 
years), exceed the females by more than seven per cent., 
such is the greater ratio of mortality among them dur- 
ing the first year of life, that at the fifth year the excess 
of males is only about five per cent., whilst by the tenth 
year, it has been so reduced that the excess is about one 
per cenf t 

The proportionate difference of mortality between 
the two sexes is variously estimated by different writers. 
The following table exhibits the deaths annually of 
each sex, out of 1000 of each living in each interval of 
age in England. 



Between Ages. 


Males. 


Females. 


to 5 


53.5 


46.0 


SO " 30 


10.1 


10.4 


30 " 40 


11.4 


12.4 


40 " 60 


14.9 


14.9 


60 " 70 


45.3 


41.2 



It will be seen from this table, that while the mor- 
tality of the males greatly exceeds the females in the 
first five years of life, there is nearly an equality estab- 
lished between the two sexes in the period between 

* British and Foreign Medical Review, Vol. 3, p. 47. 
t Medical Statistics, consisting of estimates relating to the po- 
palation of Philadelphia.— ^m«r. Jour. MkL Seienas. Nov. 1831. 



yGoogk 



CONSUMPTION BY CORSSTINO. 391 

iwenly and thirty years of age, which is lost to the dis- 
advantage of the females in the next ten years, or be- 
tween thirty and forty, and established again in next 
decade, or between forty and fifty. The advantage is 
again on the side of the females, between sixty and 
seventy years of age. The Swedish tables, in which 
the sexes are distinguished, nutke the mortality of males 
greater than that of females all through life; and this 
accords with several other observations. In the eigh- 
teen years, 1813-30, the mortality, according to Eng- 
lish returns, was greater among males than females, up 
to puberty and after fifty; during the period of child- 
bearing more females died than males. The observa- 
tions made in Belgium present nearly similar results.* 

There is one disease from which the mortality, at 
least in England, is greater among women than among 
men, and that is consumption. The causes of this dif-* 
ference are thus set forth by Mr. Farr:— <<The higher 
mortality of English women by consumption may be 
ascribed partly to the in-door life which they lead, and 
partly to the compression, preventing the expansion of 
the chest, by costume. In both ways they are deprived 
of free draughts of vital air, and the altered blood de- 
posits^tuberculous matter with a fatal, unnatural facility. 
Thirty-one thousand and ninety English women died 
in one year of this incurable malady." Both of the 
causes of death among English women here specified 
by Mr. Farr act with additional and alarming power 
on American women, who go out much less than the 
English, and with whom the absurdity of fashion has 
more despotic sway among all classes, rich and poor, 
mistress and maid, white and black. The following 

* British and Foreign Medical Review, ut tupra. 



yGoogk 



392 LONOSTXTT. 

ezhoTtatioQ of Mr. Farr ought therefore to command as 
much attention on this side of the Atlantic as he wished 
it to have among his own countrywomen. " Will not this 
impressive fact induce persons of rank and influence to 
set their countrytnea right in the article of dress, and 
lead them to abandon a practice which disfigures the 
body, strangles the chest, produces nervous or other 
disorders, and has an unquestionable tendency to im- 
plant an incurable hectic malady in the frame? Girls 
have no more need of artificial bones and bandages than 
boys." 

But, if females are greater sufferers from phthisis, and 
indeed from diseases of the organs of respimtion in 
general, they are less liable to the fatal fevers of wann 
climates. In the West Indies, in civil life, a woman is 
esteemed twice as good a liver as a man*— arising pro- 
bably from her temperate habits and different degrees 
of exposure to the night air. In barracks, the same 
difference of liability is observed between the sexes; 
^ but during the war," says Dr. John Hunter, " when 
the wives of the common soldiers were exposed with 
their husbands, they suffered in the same proportion*'^ 
We believe that this remark is applicable to the wives 
of those soldiers of the Gross, the devoted missionaries 
in Asia and Africa. The following table is the nearest 
approximation to the relative liability of women in civil 
VUh^ which we possess; it indicates the proportions whidi 
occurred in the epidemic at Gibraltar, in 1828, among 
the inhabitants:*^ 

Men, 684 

Women, - - - - - 286 
Children, 200 

* Dr. R. WiUiain«**«Elen[ieoU of Medicine, ▼oL ii. p. 456. 



yGoogk 



RELATIVE MORTALITY IN THE TWO SEXES. 393 

It has been observed on the continent of Europe that 
the mortality among women in ihe country during the 
child-bearing period is often greater than in the towns. 
This is attributed by some to the severity of the out-door 
and other labours to which they are subjected, at the 
very time when their health requires great care. In 
Geneva, M. Marc d'Espine tells us that the mortality 
is less in the city and greater in the country among 
women than among men.* M. Mallet, in his elaborate 
statistical inquiries into the population of 6eneva,t says 
that at the age of twenty-one years, the equilibrium be- 
tween the two sexes on the score of mortality is re-estab- 
lished; but the probability of life at this time is greater 
for the female than in the male, in being as 37.81 to 
35.91. At fifty years of age there remains of 100 bom 
of each sex, 22.0675 men, and 23.1776 women; numbers 
which are in relation of 35.91 and 37.71; that is to say, 
almost identical with the figures representing the mean 
duration of life of the two sexes at the date or point of 
their equality. M. Quetelet introduces, in his work 
On Man and the Development of his Faculties^ an 
elaborate table of the proportion of the deaths of either 
sex from the age of one month to that of 104 years. 
From this the following results may be deduced: — At 
birth the probable life is 25 years; in other words, at 
the age of 25 only one-half of the children born at the 
same time will be alive. The probable life of the fe- 
naale is greater than that of the male; the former be- 
ing 27 in the country, and more than 28 in towns; the 
latter less than 24 in the country, and less than 21 in 
towns. 

♦ Ann. d'Hyg. &c. t. xxiii, p. 14. 
f Ann. d'Hyg. &c. t. xWi. 



yGoogk 



394 LONOBTITY. 

In both sexesi and ia all sitaations, ibe probable life 
is, according to M. Quetelet's observations, (made on 
the population of Belginm,) longest about the age of 
five; being 51 for women in towns and men in the couiv 
trf, and 48 for women in the country and men in towns. 
The farther we advance from this period, the siiorter 
the probable life becomes. Thus, at the age of forty^ It 
is 27 for men in the country and women in towns, and 
25 for women in the country and men in towns. At 
sixty, it is from 12 to 13, and at eighty, only 4. 

The mean life in Belgium is 32.15 years. Considering 
sex and place of abode, it is as follows: — 









TOWDB. 




Country. 


Men, 


- 


- 


29.24 


- 


31.97 


Women, 


- 


- 


33.28 


•* 


' 82.95 



AoE. — The deaths in the first month after birth are, 
from the various exposures of eariy life, higher than 
would be indicated by the rate of infancy. There are 
particular periods when the strain, as it were, upon life, 
is greater than at others, and this not measured always 
by advancing chronological series. After the first year, 
the ratio of mortality rapidly declines, and this decrease 
is shown by the enumemtion of deaths for each of the 
four following years. The maximum of the probability 
of life at Geneva for the last quarter of a century was 
at 2 years from birth, and that of mean life or mean 
duration at 3 years. M. Mallet, who makes this remark, 
infers that the nearer the maximum of vitality approaches 
to an age proximate to birth, the more certain is the Ufe 
of infancy. In France and Belgium, and we may add 
in England, the maximum vitality is at five years of 
age; that is to say, we have more security that a child 
who has attained its fifth year wUl live out an average 



yGoogk 



MODinSB BT AGE. 895 

existence, than we had when this same child was one 
year, or even two, or three or four years old. 

« In examining the vitality at diflbrent ages, a Tery 
extensive range in the scale of intensity is perceived: 
man is never equally mortal during two summers of 
his life; and as his being revolves through ife course in 
minutes, years, or equal intervals, the vitality at first 
increases, and then decreases in geometrical progression; 
but, as experience has shown, the rate of progression 
changes. There are three orders of progression. The 
first extends from birth to the second teething, when the 
body becomes every year less liable to death; tfie second 
prevails from puberty over manhood, when the force of 
mortality slowly creeps on, and grows stionger; the 
third sets in on the eve of old age, and with « more 
rapidly accumulating energy. 

Dr. Price pointed out these remarkable periods; but to 
Mr. Edmonds the honour is due of expressing their rates 
of diminishing or increasing mortality in the subjoined 
numbers. 

Numerical Values j which indicate the rate of Increase 
or Decrease of the Force of Mortality ^ in a given 
time, assumed to be one year. 

Conitant?. Period over which Conitant presidei. 

.676 - Infancy (from birth to eigrht years of age). 

1 .030 - Manhood (from twelve to fifty-fire years of age), 

1.080 - Old age (from fifty^fire to end of life). 

^ By means of the three constants it » easy, when 
the mortality of ene year is known, to dediace from it 
that of the next; for example, if the mean mortality at 
the age of twenty-five be one per cent., the mortality 
in the next year (twenty^eix) will be nearly 14)8, which 



yGoogk 



396 LONOBYITT. 

multiplied by the constant of the period, gives the mor- 
tality for the twenty-seventh year, &c. up to fifty or 
sixty; where the second merges into the third, period 
whose constant must then be employed. As the rate 
of mortality is ordinarily obtained for equal periods of 
ten years, it may be well to bear in mind that the mor- 
tality at the ages between twenty and fifty, increases 
one-third every ten years: in old age it should nearly 
double. 

<< Man owes nature a debt, for which he pays com- 
pound interest, the constants show how the rate of in- 
terest varies. 

^ Infancy, manhood and old age, are then essentially 
distinct periods of human life, and must not be con- 
founded with the arbitrary and subordinate, but useful 
divisions of some physiologists. The ages of growth, 
generation and decay, have, in £Bu:t, from the time of 
Aristotle, attracted the attention which their paramount 
importance demands; nor in pathology is any other di- 
vision of life so useful at the present day, either to 
guide the practitioner in the investigation of disease 
or in prognosis; yet practical writers appear no more 
aware than the ancients, that the number of deaths at 
each period of life, happens according to a predestined 
order.''* 

M. Villerm6, in a paper in the •innaUsj so often 
quoted, ( Tome /JT,) on Epidemics, in their relations to 
Public Hygientj Medical Siatislics and Political 
Economy f points out the great probability of the mor- 
tality from epidemic diseases, obeying the same general 
law of mortality according to age. Out of the same 
number of the sick, in very young and in old persons, 

• British and Foreign Medical Ifeview, locdL 



yGoogk 



INCREASE OF MORTALITT WITH AGE. 397 

the mortality is greater in the former, the nearer they 
approach to birth, and in the latter, the more advanced 
they are in years. 

Thus for example, M. E. E. Duvillard, in a calcula- 
tion on the mortality in small-pox, before the discovery 
of vaccination, found that there dies among nearly all the 
victims to this disease, when it prevails epidemically, 
one person in every 

3.0 who are 1 year old. 



3.6 


« 


2 


u 


5.3 


a 


S 


u 


8.1 


€C 


4 


u 


12.2 


a 


5 


u 


17.6 


a 


6 


' u 



Finally, at ten years of age, there only died one in 
thirty-four; and this is the epoch in life in which, when 
a person is seized with small-pox, there is less proba- 
bility of his dying, just as it is that of the absolute 
minimum mortality.* 

Age is a modifying cause in the predisposition to dis- 
eases of particular professions and climatic exposures. 
In the English Foot and Dragoon Guards, at home, the 
mortality between the ages of 18 and 33, is great, and 
is chiefly referred to consumption. In warm and sickly 
climates, the mortality among soldiers increases with 
their age, at a fearful rate.* Major TuIIoch, in speaking 
of this occurrence in the soldiers at the Mauritius, at- 
tributes the result to intemperance. But, as remarked 
by Dr. Williams, {Op. cii.) the experience of the army 
in the West Indies, and at every station, tropical or tem- 
perate, from which reports have been obtained, show 

• Ann. d'Hyg. &c. t. IX, p. 31-3. 
34 



yGoogk 



998 LONOSYITT. 

that the exposare being equal, the mortality from palu- 
dal fevers, is increased in a direct ratio to age, so that 
the superiority of veteran soldiers over young recruits, 
in the endurance of fatigue, and those numberless hard- 
ships to which they are exposed in actual service, is 
counteracted by their increased susceptibility to the ac- 
tion of this [alleged] poison. 

As regards the age when self-destruction is most 
frequent, we learn that in England, at least, this is be- 
tween 50 and 60 years, in which period twenty per 
100,000 commit suicide; and between 60 and 70 years, 
the number per 100,000 is 19.8, very nearly twenty. 
The tendency to self-murder is greater in the metro- 
polis, (London), and least in Wales and the contermi- 
nous counties. 

Race. — The most obvious differences distinguishing 
races, are those between the white and the black, and 
circumstances, some of them to be deplored, have placed 
many data in our power, to enable us to institute com- 
parisons of their respective vitality and chances of 
longevity. That the individuals and communities of 
the black or Negro race, whose progenitors have ever 
inhabited central and tropical Africa, should suffer in 
health and life by transplanting to northern climates, 
does not excite our surprise; but how account for the 
fact stated, on statistical basis, that the warm climates 
so nearly approaching to that of Africa, as the Mau- 
ritius and the West Indies, seem alike unsuited to the 
constitution of the negro? So fast is the negro race dis- 
appearing in the Mauritius, that in five years the deaths 
have exceeded the births by upwards of 6000, in a 
population of 60,000. In the West Indies, generally. 
Major Tulloch assures us, that there are causes con- 
tinually in operation affecting the vitality of the negro 



yGoogk 



GREATER MORTALITY IN THE BLACK RACE. 399 

population, which must ultimately end in its extinction. 
To diseases of the lungs, the negroes are particularly 
prone. Even in his native country the negro seems to 
suffer as much from these diseases, as the British troops 
in their own country. As illustrative of the difference 
in predisposition to this class of affections, it is worthy 
ofremark, that among 71,850 native troops serving in 
the Madras Presidency, the deaths by every description 
of diseases of the lungs, did not, on an average, exceed 
one per thousand of the strength annually. 

Dr. Emerson, {Op. citat,) on the subject of the mor- 
tality of the black people in Philadelphia, shows a re- 
sult " most appalling for the African descendants. The 
greatest mortality among these in any single year, was 
in 1820, when it amounted to one death in 16.9 inha- 
bitants. The smallest in 1830, when the ratio was one 
in 27.2. The average for the whole ten years is one in 
21.7, whilst that for the whites alone, during this un- 
usually sickly period, is one in 42.3. The lowest rate 
of mortality for the whites occurred in 1821, and was 
one in 49.1 inhabitants, the highest in 1823, when it 
amounted to 1 in 33.8.^* 

II. Of the extraneous or adventitious causes affecting 
longevity, climate is the first which was enumerated. 
The very annunciation of the problem is of a complex 
character, since climate is not a unit, nor hardly a com- 
bination of any series of known and readily appreciable 
agencies. There are, it is true, certain general features 
contrasted enough to seem to justify our founding ob- 
servations on them. I shall, in order to lessen the am- 
biguity of the subject, treat under the same head, of the 
influences, both of— 

Climate and Localitt.— It is not easy, in fact we 
want the desired information, to enable us to speak of 



yGoogk 



400 LONOEVITT. 

the comparative longevity in different climates. With 
the relative mortality even we are not sufficiently ac- 
quainted. One result has been decided of late years, 
from observations in the British troops in the Mediter- 
ranean, the accuracy of which has been strengthened 
by similar ones among civilians, viz: that pulmonary 
consumption, so far from being an unfrequent disease 
in warm and tropical climates, is really more frequent 
and more rapid in its course, than in colder climates. 
This remark applies to other diseases of the lungs. 

The inflammatory affections of the lungs are nearly 
twice as prevalent in the Mediterranean as among the 
same number of troops in the United Kingdom; and in 
the mild climate of Malta, they are also twice as fatal.* 
It has been found, also, that a body of selected sol- 
diers, subject to no severe duty, and exposed to no 
hardship, lose, annually, a larger proportion of their 
number in the Mediterranean, by consumption, than 
in the United Kingdom. This inference, however ad- 
verse to generally received opinions, is strikingly cor- 
roborated by the prevalence of consumption, and other 
pulmonary affections, among the civil inhabitants of 
Malta. 

It has been ascertained, also, as the result of careful 
tabular returns of the diseases and deaths among the 
British troops in the West Indies, that at least twice as 
many cases of consumption originate in that climate as 
at home, though catarrhal diseases, to which the origin 
of consumption is generally ascribed, are there com- 
paratively rare. The practical inferences to be deduced 



* Statistical Reports on the Sickness, Mortality, &c. in the 
Troops in the United Kingdom, the Mediterranean, and British 
America, &c. &c. London, 1839. 



yGoogk 



CLIMATE AND LOCALITT. 401 

from these facts is) that, generally speaking, a tropical 
climate can neither prevent the development, nor arrest 
the progress of pulmonary consumption; and that, con- 
sequently, the practice of sending thither patients, either 
threatened with, or presenting actual symptoms of con 
sumption, is decidedly bad. 

Of the loss and abbreviation of life, by fevers, in hot 
climates, almost every reader is aware: and the fact 
needs hardly to be enlarged on here. The evil is most 
felt, however, by strangers to the climate, such as Eu- 
ropeans or North Americans going to the East and 
West Indies. The proportionate mortality among 
young soldiers in the West Indies is as great as 
among the aged and decrepid at home. The duration 
of human life, even in the natives of marshy coun- 
tries, or those in which remittent and intermittent 
fevers prevail, is much abridged, compared with that of 
the inhabitants of a higher country and more healthy 
soil. But still more is the invader affected. <* The in- 
vasions of Holland, of the Burmese and of the African 
empires, has, in each instance, been so disastrous to the 
troops, that the whole force must have perished from 
this class of disease^ in a few months, but for the suc- 
cess of their arms in the one instance, or their being 
withdrawn from the pestilent atmosphere in the other.'* 
This observation, and it might be greatly extended, con- 
firms the accuracy of the opinion advanced in the first 
chapter of this work, on the connection between health 
and morality, — and the falling back on barbarism, and 
its concomitant inroads on health and life by war. 

It is a popular and generally received belief, that 
residence in a sickly climate diminishes the danger from 
disease, by what is called acclimation or acclimatiza- 

34* 



yGoogk 



409 LONOEVITY. 

tion. But the result of inquiries, in the ^^Statistical 
Bqport on the Sicknessj Mortality^ and Invaliding 
among Troops in the West Indies^^ shows that this 
belief is founded on erroneous data. Thus it appears, 
that while the annual mortality among those resident 
one year was only 77, and of those resident two years 
87 per 1000, the mortality of those who had been 
longer in Jamaica averaged 93 per 1000. In the Wind- 
ward and Leeward command, — in the average of all 
the statements, the last years appear to have been more 
fetal than the first.* 

As regards difference of locality, to which we must 
add — and herein consists the real difference— denseness 
of population, it is , ascertained beyond doubt, that 
towns are most unhealthy; that large and populous 
cities are the graves of the human race, and could not 
maintain their population without the incessant sup- 
plies which are furnished by the inhabitants of the 
rural districts, flocking thither with the hopes of making 
fortunes; and that the country is the only situation in 
which the human race can preserve health and attain a 
moderate degree of longevity. If we required ad- 
ditional proof of the accuracy of this view, it would be 
found in the observations of Mr. Farr, deduced from 
the comparative examination of the diseases in both 
situations on a large and extended scale. He com- 
pares the cities, whose population is 3,553,161, with the 
counties, which number 3,500,750. The deaths in the 
first, or Urban division, were 47,953; in the second, or 
Rural, 29,693. This was in 1837-8. 

The three following diseases, which are chiefly of 
adults between the ages of fifteen and sixty-five, show 

* Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Joum. Vol. 1. 1838, p. 457-8. 



yGoogk 



GREATER MORTALITY IN CITIES. 403 

that unhealthy places augment the fatality of diseases 
in different degrees: 



Counties. 


Cities. 


Increase per cent, in cities. 


Deaths by Consumption, 5,857 


8,125 


39 


" Child-birth, 217 


372 


71 


" Typhus, 1564 


3,456 


221 



A view of the deaths for the city districts and the 
country districts, for 183iB-9, leads to similar results. The 
population in the two were, of the former, 3,726,221; 
of the latter, or country, 3,539,908; and the deaths 
under the first head, 101,019, and under the second, 
70,410. The mean duration of life in the two kinds of 
locality, would differ nearly in the proportion of 37 
years and 50 years. 

Mr. Farr does not believe that cities are necessarily 
so unfavourable to human life: he thinks there are ad- 
ventitious, but yet powerful causes operative, which 
might, with suitable care and energetic effort, be pre- 
vented. After recommending a prohibition of the bu- 
rial of the dead among dwellings crowded with the 
living, — the exclusion of unwholesome manufactories 
and slaughter-houses from densely-peopled districts, and 
the improvement and extension of sewers, he observes 
on this last point: " If a survey were made of the dis- 
tricts of the metropolis, and the levels, the sewers, the 
drains, and the nuisances known to be pernicious were 
accurately laid down upon a map, it would agree very 
remarkably with the table of relative mortality; and 
the construction of such a map would complete the 
view of the evil in all its details, and form the basis of 
a well-planned remedy.'' In every city, the sewerage 
and drainage may be considered to be among the more 



yGoogk 



404 LONOSnTT. 

important elements, perhaps the most important element 
of health and longevity.* 

The mortality of cities and towns in Belgium is, to 
the mortality of the country population, nearly as four 
to three:^ 



FopulftUon. 


Mean number of deathf . 


Deaths in 1000. 


Cities and towns, 998,1 18 


270,26 


27.1 


Country, 3,066,091 


652,65 


21.3 



The mortality in all Sweden, compared with that in 
Stockholm, presents results equally unfavourable to 
residence in cities: — 



Deaths. Deaths. 



c iL 1 C Males, lin27 I .,!« j C Males, l|m33} 
Stockholm ^^ , , . ^, AUSweden^^ ; *. _^^ 
^Females,! in 21 | ^Females, 1 in 36 

Mr. Edmonds has, the writer from whom I now 
quote {Brii, and For, Med. Rev.) thinks, ingeniously 
proved, that the mortality of children in London has 
progressively diminished for the last century; but no 
practitioner, who has had much experience among the 
poor, will be surprised to find that still twice as many 
children perish in London as in the country. 

They are chiefly young persons from the country, 
between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five, when emi- 
gration into cities is greatest, that furnish the Paris hos- 
pitals with cases of typhus fever: out of 133 patients 
observed by Loui§, only 4 were born in Paris. 26 out 
of 63 patients, who had been in Paris less than ten 
months, died; while of SQ who had lived there longer, 
only 16 were lost. I well remember the invariable 
question asked by L. Lerminier, at the Charit6 Hospital, 

• Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Vol. XL, p. 430. 



yGoogk 



SEASONS — TEMPERATURE. 405 

when, on his mornuig rounds he saw for the first time a 
young person with typhoid fever: "How long have 
you been living in Paris?" A city is a foreign climate 
to a countryman. 

Seasons. — Under this head we must study tempera- 
ture, as affecting the probability of longevity. It is 
now a well ascertained fact, indeed a law, which, by 
the bye, people generally and parents especially seem 
determined to disregard, that cold exerts a most per- 
nicious effect upon animal life, but in a peculiar degree 
on the young and those of a tender age. MM. Villerm6 
and Edwards formally directed public attention to the 
great mortality among children in cold seasons; and in- 
dicate some special and adventitious aggravations, which 
might be, as I understand they were in some places, ob- 
viated by the proper authorities, viz: the carrying chil- 
dren, sometimes to a distance, from their home to be 
christened, during the winter season, in churches which 
were damp and cold. Dr. Lombard, of Geneva, con- 
firms the accurary of the opinions of the writers just 
mentioned, on the main points, while he offers some 
amendments on others of a secondary moment. Cold 
is uniformly unfriendly to the young of all animals. 
How cruel, with a knowledge of these things, must the 
conduct of so many parents appear, whose culpable 
vanity causes them to expose the breast and arms of 
their children without covering, in cold and inclement 
weather. To a similar cause must we often look for 
fatally developing tuberculous disease in adult females. 
In persons of advanced life, the same feature of the cause 
of mortality is evident; winter being the season which 
is most fatal to that class. Confirmatory of these views 
are the results of M. Quetelet's inquiries, based on 



yGoogk 



406 LONGEVITY. 

Statistical returns, for a series of years, for Belgium. 
They are as follows: 

The following table exhibits at a glance the influence 
of seasons on mortality: 



Months. 


Deaths. 


Proportion. 


1815 to 1826. 


Towns. 


Country. 


Towns. 


Country. 


January, 


69,892 


116,129 


1.168 


1.312 


February, 


66,267 


114,758 


1.088 


1.198 


March, 


64,277 


114,244 


1.050 


1.192 


April, 


61,818 


107,264 


1.002 


1.120 


May, 


48,911 


93,714 . 


0.946 


0.978 


June, 


46,607 


84,464 


0.901 


0.882 


July, 


45,212 


77,655 


0.874 


0.809 


August, 


47,032 


78,802 


0.910 


0.822 


September, 


60,191 


85,131 


0.971 


0.888 


October, 


61,649 


89,514 


0.999 


0.934 


November, 


52,908 


89,685 


1.024 


0.935 


December, 


55,631 


98,705 


1.076 


1.030 



Average, 61,700 95,822 1.000 1.000 

From this it appears that the fewest deaths take place 
at that period of the year when men have least to fear 
from the inclemency of the weather. This period coin- 
cides also with that during which most conceptions 
occur. It is clear that civilization can do much to 
modify these results. 

M. Quetelet has furnished a very interesting table 
of the comparative mortality of different ages in each 
month, which we transfer to our pages. 



yGoogk 



HIGH HEAT A CAUSE OF MOBTALITT. 407 

Table showing the influence of age and season on 
mortality: 



Sometimes the very reverse of diminished tempera- 
ture or high heat will increase the mortality, but then, 
as an almost necessary accompaniment, there must be 
deficient ventilation or a close and almost stationary 
atmosphere. In our cities, and even towns of moderate 
size, in the United States, this combination exists, and is* 
efficient for the production of a disease of great violence 
and considerable mortality, viz. summer complaint of 
children or cholera infantum. This is particularly 
severe and frequent in children who have been recently 
weaned, and who are in their first dentition. 

Dr. Emerson presents the subject, as far as relates to 
Philadelpha, in the following table, for a period of five 
years; the months being equalized, and exhibited in 



yGoogk 



40S LONOSVITT. 

the order of their mortaiity, with their respective pro* 
portions. 



Under 


Between 


Between 


Between 


Totalf. 


1 year. 


lands 


3 and 3 


5andaO 




1. July, 836 


249 


117 


120 


1322 


2. August, 546 


317 


120 


165 


1148 


3. September, 377 


221 


140 


185 


923 


4. June, 510 


148 


84 


105 


847 


5. February, 382 


109 


123 


131 


745 


6. October, 324 


127 


117 


153 


721 


7. March, 322 


119 


122 


138 


701 


8. April, 342 


107 


125 


122 


696 


9. December, 269 


90 


114 


135 


608 


10. November, 267 


90 


114 


132 


603 


11. January, 281 


81 


102 


109 


573 


12. May, 250 


98 


107 


107 


562 



4706 1756 1385 1602 9449 

It hence appears, that by far the greatest mortality 
occurring in childhood takes place in June, July and 
August, months distinguished from all others by their 
high temperature, and that heat is the great enemy of 
early life in our city. It is interesting to observe that 
the destructive influence of this agent has lost much of 
its power after the first year of life, and that after the 
second year it is scarcely perceptible, there being but 
^little variation in the columns representing the monthly 
mortality after this period. 

There is another state, or combination of states, of 
earth and air, designated with more brevity than accu- 
racy by the term malarious, which prevails in so many 
parts of the United States, and modifies not a little,— 
we ought rather to say, offers a contrast with, the de- 
ductions obtained in northern Europe, where, either the 
fevers of imputed marsh origin never prevail, or the 
degree of cultivation and civilization has carried them 



yGoogk 



SXnCIDES IN PARTICULAR 8BA80N8. 409 

beyond it. We, here, can still retain that part at least 
of Celsus's opinion, of the healthy and unhealthy sea- 
sons, in which he designates antunin as longi periculo- 
sissimusy or by far the most sickly. 

In England, the deaths registered in London, in the 
winter quarter of 1838, amounted to 15,611; in spring, 
to 13,109; in summer, to 11,397; and in autumn, to 
1,581. 

Great importance has been attributed to climate and 
season as physical causes of suicide, in the sense at 
least in which they were supposed to act, but without 
adequate reason. Mr. Winslow* points out the fact, 
that in Holland, the climate of which is much more 
gloomy than that of England, there are fewer suicides 
than in the latter country; whilst in France, more fa- 
vourably circumstanced on the score of a friendly sky, 
there are more instances of this catastrophe. The ave- 
rage number of suicides in England, shows the months 
of April and June to have the preference; and Novem- 
ber, the almost privileged month— with its fogs and its 
gloom— for a man to hang himself, exhibited the fewest. 
The proportion of suicides in November is, to those in 
April, as 3 to 8|. At Paris, the larger number of sui- 
cides occur in spring and summer. << When the ther- 
mometer of Fahrenheit ranges from 80^ to 90^, suicide 
is most prevalent.'' An inference that might be drawn 
from this fact, — that self-murder must be common in hot 
climates, would be decidedly erroneous. On the con- 
tested point; which people, the English or the French, 
is most addicted to suicide, the author says: — ^ It has 
dearly been exhibited, that where there is one suicide 
in London there are twelve in Paris." We do not find, 

* ABatomy of Soidds. 
35 



yGoogk 



410 LONOKvirr. 

however, in Mr. Winslow's volume, the data which 
justify this assertion. 

Occupations and professions. — Within a few years 
past, numerous and valuable results from statistical in* 
quiries have been presented respecting the proportionate 
longevity of persons engaged in different kinds of labour, 
trades and professions. I must regret that my limits 
will not allow of the introduction of many tabular state- 
ments on this head. I shall, however, indicate some of 
the chief points worthy of notice. 

All persons, whose employments require them to be 
long confined in a closely ventilated apartment, suffer in 
health, and if they persevere in this kind of exposure, 
their lives will be considerably abridged. The evil is 
increased by a constrained or bent posture and the in- 
halation of particles of matter escaping from the materials 
of their work. Under this description of persons will 
be included a large number of those engaged in manu- 
factories and the work shop, in which floating particles 
6f wool and cotton or impalpaUe dust and powder con- 
tinually escaping, are continually taken into the lungs 
of the operatives and artisans or labourers, as the case 
may be. Those working in metals or in fusing, welding, 
and alloys, and in the manufacture of certain metallic 
preparations, are also greatly exposed to suffer in various 
Ways. To these deleterious causes are too commonly 
added a protracted period of work, without interval of 
rest or benefit of fresh air, and often without adequate 
food. A class who are still greater sufferers, victims, 
from the combined operation of these various agendas^ 
are those of tender age, mere children, who work in the 
factories for a diurnal period far beyond their strength. 
And, as if these were not enough for all human endu- 
rance, intemperance is hrpught in to complete the ac- 



yGoogk 



INTEMPERAKCS THX BAKE OF OPERATIVES. 411 

cumulation of misery and aggravate ten-fold all the 
disasters following in the train of such a state of things. 
"The grand bane," says Thactrah,* "of civilized 
life, is intempera^ice. Greater in towns than in the 
country, it dreadfully aggravates the evils of our em- 
ployments; and it produces evils of its own ten-fold more 
urgent, more rapid, and more deadly. Not a class of 
artisans, and scarcely one of professional men is to be 
found, in which intemperance may not be discovered. 
Sometimes it is grossly apparent,— often partially con- 
cealed; in the first case, as it were, taking the constitu- 
tion by storm; in the latter, proceeding by sap; in both, 
utterly destroying health, personal comfort, and domestic 
happiness." As illustrative of the effect of malt liquors 
in prompting those who use them to stronger potations, 
I give Mr. Thackrah's language in continuation of the 
above extract. "The most striking effects are to be seen 
among the artisans. The man takes, during the hours 
of labour, more drink than he requires, and this generally 
the compound sold under the name of ale. Instead of 
spending the evening with his family, he joins frequently 
some friends to take a pint at the public house. To ale, 
a g^ass of spirit must afterwards be added. At lengdi 
he is frequently drunk at night; and in the progress of 
the case, we find him occasionally so unfit for work the 
next morning from disordered stomach, that he must 
have some spirit before he can crawl from his house. 
One glass leads to a second, and the man becomes in- 
toxicated even in the morning,— *is obliged to give up 
the idea of going to work, — and then his habits and 
fiselings lead him to spend the day, not in freeing his 

* The Bfaeti of the prlneiH ^r^> Treaet, aad Profestions, uid 
of CItIo states sad hahits of Uviag , on health and loiifivltj« 



yGoogk 



412 LaNOBYITT. 

system from the effects of his debauch, not irt abstinence, 
fresh air, and repose, but in aggravating the evils from 
which he suffers. He s]>ends the day in the public 
house! To-day is a repetition of yesterday, and to- 
morrow will probably be spent in sickness and in bed.'' 

Are the above enumerated evils of confinement and 
hard labour, deficient food and yet inordinate stimulus, 
confined to England? Alas! no. The French have simi- 
lar experience in their manufactories in Alsace, and in 
the northern departments. M. Villerm6,* in his descrip- 
tion of the number and necessities, indigence and vices, 
of the workmen at Lille, cites a deplorable fact which 
speaks volumes in illustration of the habits of these 
people. When the women are thus corrupt, we know 
in what an abandoned state the men must be. It is a 
custom at Lille to give to children whom it is desired to 
put to sleep a dose of theraca called ^ sleeper j {dor- 
mant.) M. yillerm6 ascertained, by inquiring at the 
apothecaries who sell these sleepers, that the wives ot 
the operatives buy them, especially on Sundays, Mon- 
days, and holidays, when they propose to remain a long 
time at the tavern, {cabaret j) and to leave their children 
at home. Now, we would ask whether in our own 
once drunken and still too intemperate land, there was 
ever or is such systematic depravation of all maternal 
feeling, such lamentable vice, the direct product of 
drunkenness^ among women in the United States, as 
this fact reveals of a portion of those of France. 

The vice of drunkenness is, as M. Villerm^ assures us, 
of ancient date in this part of France. M. de Boulanvil- 
liers, intendant-general, wrote, more than a century and 

* Tableau de Tetat pliysiqne et moral dee ouTrea employes dasi 
lea manQfaotarea de ooton de laine et de aoie. Paria, 1840. 



yGoogk 



ADVERSE INFLVEirCE 01> HANUFACTUBES. 413 

a half ago, respecting the people of the province of whieh 
the department of the North at this time constitulea li 
part — "They are punctual at mass and sermon, but 
without neglecting the tavern, which is their ruling 
passion/' Let us not in the overfulness of Protestant 
zeal exclaim against this inconsistency among Catho- 
lics of olden time, until we can say that within the 
memory of men now living there was not a counterpart 
to this picture in the conduct of many a pious Presby- 
terian and Methodist, not to say Episcopalian, whose 
punctuality on attendance at church was only equal to, 
it could not surpass, his punctuality of visits to the liquor 
bottle, and the animation of whose devotions was often 
a suspicious compound of honest zeal and the excitement 
of alcohol. Ought any Christian of any church to throw 
himself open to this imputation? Can the unbroken 
records of any church be adduced to prove that the im- 
putation is tmfounded? 

To show how the moral system, when pursued con- 
jointly by the employers and the employed, operates on 
the health and prosperity of all, we have only to con- 
trast the foregoing pictures of French and Englidi , 
manufactures, and I have withheld many of their worst 
because coarsest and most revolting features, with those 
of American manufactures; taking the << Lowell girls'' as 
not too high or an exceptional standard on the occasion. 

Military life, even in peace, is everywhere adverse to 
longevity. I shall not cite any farther proof of this fact 
than by introducing the following short article, which is 
fuUjT to the point. 

« A very interesting dkcussion took place recently in 
the Chamber of Deputies on the question that the annual 
levy of 80,000 conscripts for the year 1839 be authorised. 
CoL Paixhans, from documents to which he referred, 

35* 



yGoogk 



414 hojxamvm. 

refuted the statement in the report of the Committee to 
which the measure had in its usual course been sub- 
mittedy that the military profession was in time of peace 
favourable to the preservation of the health of the men, 
(those engaged in it). On the contrary, he showed that 
the annual mortality among young men of 20 years of 
age engaged in civil pursuits was only 12 in 1000; and 
among those of 27 years of age, similarly occupied, 14 
in 1000. Now, the mortality in the ranks of the army 
was much more excessive. Among the non-commis- 
sioned officers it was 11 in 1000; among the senioi: sol- 
diers (those of from 26 to 27 years of age) the deaths 
were 20 in 1000 per annum. Among those who were 
only five years in the service (they commence at 20 
years) the mortality was 30 in 1000; among those who 
were four years in the army it was 45 in 1000; among 
those of three years it was 52 in 1000; among those of 
two years it was 65 in 1000; and among the young sol- 
diers, those in the first years of service, the mortality 
was 75 per 1000. He added, that the annual mortality 
among the veterans in the Hotel des Invalides was 50 
in 1000; among the troops in the colonies 70, and among 
those in Algiers 80 in 1000.^' 

Of the conditions in life and modes of living, marriage 
seems to be favourable to longevity. Dr. Casper, in 
corroboration of the opinion of Hufeland andDepartieux, 
has exhibited, in a series of tables, the gain to life which 
marriage has, for both sexes, over celibacy. (See Jinn. 
dPHygitnty &c., t XIV.) The greater probability of 
married men over single ones between thirty and forty- 
five passing this latter term, taking 100 of each for com- 
parison, is 36.8. As life advances, the chances are still 
greater; as it would seem that for eleven bachelors who 
live beyond sev^ty years^ we find twenty-seven mar- 



yGoogk 



VATALITT VROH DRT NUR8INO. 415 

Tied men who go beyond, taking equal numbers al 
anterior and early dates for comparison. 

In the female sex, the gain on the score of longevity 
is not so great as in the case of men; but it is still quite 
apparent. Of 100 women who pass seventy years, the 
number of unmarried is 23.6, and of married women, 
28,7. 

Among the chief causes which, after birth, tend to cut 
short life, are deficient food, want of common air and 
exercise, and the consumption of alcoholic liquors, and 
particularly of ardent spirits. 

Under the head of deficient food, is the privation to 
the infant of its mother's or a good nurse's milk, and 
its being reared by artifical means. The trials of this 
nature, especially in public or charitable institutions, 
have been most disastrous. In the month of February, 
1822, twelve infants were confided to women destined 
to feed them by the bottle or the spoon. In the very first 
week after their arrival, all died except one, who, being 
three months old, was better able to bear the trial. At 
Parthenay, out of 153 foundlings, in a period of five 
years, there died of these, from the age of one day to a 

year, 54, which is 35 per cent At X , out of 244 

children, there died, in the course of a single year, 197, 
which is 80 per cent. The difference in the mortality 
in this case arose from the mode of feeding the children. 

At X , no child was nursed at the breast— all were 

raised by hand. In other respects, the care and atten- 
tion paid at the two places was the same. The greatest 
mortality was within the month, and of this the greatest 
was in the summer months. In July and August, the 
deaths were 36 out of 48 children, (75 per cent.) In 
January, February and March, 18 out of 71, {25 per 
.cent) At Rheims, the mortality among the foundlings 



yGoogk 



416 i.oirosyfrr« 

raised hy hand, was, in 10 years, ending 1835, 586, in 
the first year of life, out of 916 admitted in the hospital, 
or at the rate of 639 in a thousand. At Paris, it was 503 
in a thousand, in the same period or the first year of life. 
(^nn. cPHyg. t. XIX.) 

The mortality among the foundlings generally, in 
France, was represented by M . Benoisten de Chateau- 
neuf, in 1824, to be three-fifths, in 60 per cent, in the 
first year after birth. 

In private life, and in separate houses, we do not meet 
with such a terrific proportion of deaths in children fed 
by hand, as the above returns exhibit; but still, even 
with the greatest care and skill, the risk is too great to 
be incurred, if a wet nurse can possibly be procured for 
the child. 

In many parts of Europe, the population is diminished 
by a deficiency, and in very many cases, positive priva- 
tion of food for common sustenance. The Register 
G^neraPs Report of the mortality, &c., for England, 
contains a number of cases of this kind. Stinted allow- 
ance, however, and feeble health, are not insurmountable 
obstacles to occasional instances of longevity: nor is 
drunkenness itself always a preventive of this result. 
There is in some persons a tenacity of life which com- 
mon causes are relatively powerless in affecting. But 
let us beware how we take these exceptions, these 
exempts from the common lot, survivors in the forlorn 
hope, after being exposed to a murderous fire from the 
breach, as examples for our guidance. Even in sickly 
countries, where the average duration of life is very low 
indeed, we meet every now and then with instances of 
longevity; and it is a curious fact, that in certain places 
in which careful records have been kept for a long time, 
as in Geneva, for example, the instances of great or re- 



yGoogk 



INTLUSNCB OF VACCINATION. 417 

markable longevity are fewer^ in proportion, as the 
mean life of the people at large increases. 

Physicians and medical statists are not well agreed 
respecting the real influence which vaccination has 
exerted on mortality, and the consequent chances of 
longevity. Two extreme views have been taken of this 
subject. The opposers of vaccination, at least its detrac- 
tors, and those who underrate its value, after stating that 
although smallpox has fewer victims, yet that measles, 
scarlet fever, hooping cough, croup and cerebral diseases 
carry off more children than formerly, draw the illogical 
inference that vaccination aggravates the violence of 
these diseases, if it does not actually originate theuL 
These persons forget that a child, vaccinated soon after 
birth, and prevented by this means from perishing by 
small-pox, still remains liable to all the attacks of other 
diseases — and hence, that, in fact, vaccination, by in- 
creasing the entire number of children, places a large 
number to be attacked by other diseases, and as the num- 
ber is larger, the deaths, at the usual rate, will be greater. 

Others fall into an opposite error, and claim out of the 
entire number of children vaccinated, all those who 
would have otherwise perished by smallpox, as so many 
lives saved for future usefulness in the arts, sciences, and 
productive labour of a country. They overlook the fact 
entirely, on which their opponents put a wrong and 
exaggerated construction, that vaccination, although it 
saves life from the attack of smallpox, is not a guar- 
anty against the diseases of childhood, but that the 
vaccinated, as well as those who have not been, or of 
those who may have survived an attack of smallpox, 
are equally liable to these diseases. << When we read, or 
hear it said,** says Mr. Say, " that vaccination, by pre- 
serving the life of a hundred thousand persons, has 



yGoogk 



418 LONOXviTr. 

added a hundred thousand souls to our populatioD, we 
may smile at the error, and yet, nevertheless, applaud 
the discovery [vaccination] itself 

The question is every now and then asked, indeed it 
is one which sometimes comes before a court of law, 
what effect has insanity on the mean duration of life, 
or how far does it tend to prevent, if at all, longevity? 
Mr. Farr, whose zeal in the cultivation of medical statis- 
tics is so well known, and whose name has been so often 
introduced in connection with this subject in the present 
chapter, has lately instituted inquiries and made some 
estimates, calculated with a view of answering the ques- 
tion. I have no room for his observations on different 
lunatic asylums in England, but shall give the chief 
results. He says: "We have no means of ascertaining 
the mortality of lunatics at large; but the mortality (A 
lunatics in asylums is much higher than the mortality 
of the general population, and the excess cannot be 
ascribed entirely, although it may partially, to the con- 
finement, the unwholesomeness, or the usages of mad- 
houses. The mean age of lunatics in asylums is about 
35-40. The average age of the patients admitted at 
Bethlem, (1830-34,) was 36 years (36-2); and the mean 
age of 213, admitted at Han well, by Dr. Conolly, was 
36 J. The mortality at the age 30-40 is 1-2, and at 
40-50 is 1-5 per cent, in England and Wales. In cities, 
the mortality, at a corresponding age, is not more than 
2 per cent, annually. Now the annual mortality at 
Bethlem, where dangerous cases are carefully excluded, 
was 9 per cent., in 1827-39. At Gloucester, one of the 
county asylums, at which the treatment is most success- 
ful, the diet is generous and nutritions, and the patients 
live, as much as possible, in the open air,— the annual 
mortality is 7 per cent." 



yGoogk 



NUMEROUS BIRTHS WITH ORXAT MORTALITT. 419 

The relative mortality of different nations has been 
variously estimated. The following, of some of the 
principal ones, may be regarded as tolerably accurate 
approximations to the real fact, if not its direct expo- 
nents. The absolute mortality of the Russians, was, 
within the last twenty years 1 in 27; the Prussians 1 in 
36*2; the French 1 in 39-7; the Dutch 1 in 38; the Bel- 
^ans 1 in 434; the English 1 in 43-7; the Sicilians 1 in 
32; the Greeks 1 in 30. We have no estimate of the 
mortality of the people of the United States. In Phila- 
delphia, the annual mortality is 1 in 42*3; in Boston, 
I in 45; in New York, 1 in 37-83. 

As confirmatory of the remark made a few pages 
back, that neither the average duration of life, nor the 
rate of mortality, presents an idea of the individual cases 
of longevity, and that these may be found where the 
mean is low, we may instance Russia. In that country, 
there are a considerable number of old persons, but yet 
the mortality in early life is excessive. Thus, in the 
diocese of Nisni Novgorod, it appears that of 1000 bap- 
tized, 661 perished before their fifteenth year. It is 
evident, therefore, that a large number of births in a 
country does not give proof of a numerous adult popula- 
tion, nor of the chances of longevity among them being 
greater than where the proportion of births is much less. 
Mr. Rickman, on this subject, among many observations 
of the same nature^ tells us: — In the North-Riding of 
the county of York, one-half are not dead until the age 
of thirty-eight years, whereas, in the West-Riding of the 
same county, one-half are dead at 18 years of age. An 
incredible disparity in adjoining districts, were it not 
known that the population of the North-Riding increases 
slowly, that of the West-Riding rapidly. It may as 
well be added, in elucidation of the problem in this case, 



yGoogk 



420 • LONOSVITT. 

that the Wast Riding of York, in which the probability 
of life is so little for newly born children, is one of the 
most manufacturing districts in England, while the 
North Riding, in which children have a better chance 
of life than in the rest of England, is agricultural, and 
one of the most thinly inhabited. Elsewhere, Mr. 
Rukman remarks: ^^ Such, indeed on infant life, is the 
effect of crowded residence in ^e immediate vicinity of 
the several factories, that in Lancashire 36 per cent of 
male infants, 31 per cent, of female infants, die before 
they are ten years old. A rapid increase of population 
infers the birth and existence of a large proportion of 
infants, and therefore a large proportion of short lived 
persons, thereby accelerating, /?ro rota, the time or age 
at which one-half of the population, collectively, are 
dead/* 



yGoOgl^ 



ERRATA. 
Page 74, line 14 from top, /or corn-bread read bread-corn. 



<l 


76 


tt 


4 


<i 


K 


tt tt u tt 


(1 


99 


tt 


22 


tt 


(( 


« Convolvolus « ConvolvtUus, 


It 


129 


tt 


21 


tt 


« 


" Fugopyrum •* Fagopyrum. 


u 


137 


tt 


11 


«t 


(1 


dele the comma afler quantity. 


tt 


173 


tt 


11 


tt 


(C 


for Muscula read Mascula. 


it 


180 


ti 


12 


tt 


tt 


" seed weeda read sea-weed. 


tt 


u 


tt 


17 


tt 


tt 


" hlanc mange " blanc-man^ 


a 


254 


« 


18 


tt 


tt 


*' auno " " flnno. 


tt 


325 




last line 




'* Compestus « Conspectui 


tt 


420 


line 7 from 


top 


** Kukman « Rickman. 


ti 


(( 


« 


' 14 


CI 


tt 


" roto " rat^ 



yGoogk 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



yGoogk 



