Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 




. I 



i 



COOK'S OWN BOOK, 

Aim 

HOUSEKEEPER'S REGISTER. 

Bima mioimt fob 1 '' . 

COOKING OF EYEBY KIND OF MEAT, FISH, AND FOWL \ 

JJTD 
MAKHra ITIKT SOBT OF 

SOUP, GBAVY, PASTRY, PRESERVES, AND ESSENCES. 

WITH ▲ COXPLBTB 

SYSTEM OF CONFECTIONERY; 

TABLES FOR MAREETINO ; 

A 

BOOK OF CARVING; 

^ AWD 

MISS LESLIE'S SEVENTYFIVE RECEIPTS 

FOB 

PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS. 



•<W««Wki*««*W*i*««i*iWk 



BOSTON HOUSSKSIEPBB* 



««%«*«ltAI»«MM>VIMI.I* 



BOSTON : 

MUNROE AND FRANCIS. 

NEW-TORK : CHARLES 8. FRAN0I8. 
1842. 



£ntered« according to act of Congress, in the year 1833, by 

MuNROE & Francis, 
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 



PREFACE. 



Thx cook exercises a greater power over the public health and 
welfare than the physician, and if he should be a charlatan in lus art, 
alas ! for his employers. Hitherto, or until of late years, the cook 
has had to educate himself, while the physician appropriates all the 
knowledge of antiquity, and of every succeeding age ; his individual 
cases are all classed according to general principles, while the rules 
that have regulated the preparation of our food, have been discordant 
and unnatural. In the present age, indeed, cookery has been raised 
to the dignity of an art, and sages havo given their treatises to the 
world. V^ry has a monument in the cemetery of Fhre La Chaise, 
among the tombs of warriors, poets, and philosophers, recording of 
his life that <it was consecrated to the useful arts.' Virgil however, 
writes that the best delights of Elysium were showered upon those 
who received wounds for their country, who lived unspotted priests, 
who uttered verses worthy of Apollo, or who, like Vdry, consecrated 
their lives to the useful arts. On the utilitarian principle the cook 
should be much elevated in public estimation, and were he to form a 
strict alliance with the physician, the patriarchal ages would return, 
and men would die of nothing but sheer old age. 

After insanity, the most grievous affliction of Providence, or rather 
of improvidence and imprudence, is Dyspepsy : a malady that under 
different names has decimated the inhabitants of civilized countries, 
and of almost all countries, in whi6h man is a < cooking animal.' To 
the dyspeptic, the sun has no cheering ray, the air no elasticity or 
balm ; the flowers are without fragrance, music is without melody, 
and beauty without charms. Life is a blank ; affection has lost its 
power to soothe, and the blessings scattered by Providence, are con- 
verted into ministers of torment. Food becomes a bane ; the very 
staff that supports life, gives the flagellation that renders life a curse. 
All that can delight is lost, — but all that can depress and sting, has a 
tenfold activity and power. 



It frbfacs. 

The dyspeptic's <May of life, has fallen into the sear, the yellow 
leaf.' Sleep that should visit every pillow but that of guilt, is to him 
no friend ; if he slumbers, it is to dream, like Clarence, of hideous 
forms of suffering, and to wake to their reality. This is but a faint 
picture of Dyspepsy 

'Her gloomy presenoe nddeos all the' eoene. 
Shades every flower and darkens evefy green. 
Deepens the miumur of tl|e 'jiUl^i^ -^oods. 
And breathes *» wowMr hcxvor 4>n 4he woods.' 

This malady is beyond the science of the physician, but within the 
art of the cook ; in the proverb. Doctor Diet is ranked above Doctor 
Quiet and Doctor Merrymah ; though all are good. 

The late Mr. Abemethy referred almost all maladies to the stom- 
al, and seldom prescribed any remedy bitt a proper 4iet. '*T1iSb it is 
Ihe province of the co<4c to provide ; and &e de^gn -of Alis ho^ to 
indicate. /E%ie.woi4c is not deigned to spread atasle for pemieietn 
luxuries': and every recipe has been sanetioned by -eestom. Tlie 
responnbillty of the cook is lightened, ^and his'dv^'fheilitafeed. He 
has here a-dicticmary of leference, an «Bcyclope£a ^f his ut. ^Rie 
details are full, imd Che authority is perfeet. There were various 
works of merit that it was useful for the ^XM>k to «tudy, but here -are 
collected the best parts of all, with the -eonveciieBce of alphabeticai 
arrangement, and in the compass -ef a moderate vdume. If it is a 
sin to waste the best gifis of Providence, it should be little leas than 
a fe]<my to spoil them. When we have collected die materials 'for « 
house, we never trust the building to an uns^Hol architect: yet-we 
are often obliged to commit the preparation of our leasts as weH -as 
of our common food, to agents without knowledge. This latewledge 
is now supplied. 

More than health depends on the proper preparation ef food: ent 
very virtues are the creatures of circumstances, and many a man bas 
hardened his heart, or given up a good resolution, under the operation 
of indigestion. Who that knows the^orld, ever solicits with confi- 
dence a friendly or charitable act of another before dinner. 

The natural and moral world are reciprocally dependent ; -sotfl and 
body are so linked, that when one loses its tone the other is deprived 
of its equanimity. The system of morals therefore becomes idemS- 
fied with that of cookery, and the ^eat English moralist, who was 
learned in both systems, thus spoke of the conn^Kion ; <8ome peo* 
pie' said Doctor Johnson, 'have a foolish way of not minding, tnr of 
pretending not to mind, what they eat. I for ray part mind my belly 
very studiously, and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who 
does not mind his belly will hardly mind any thing «lse.' 



PRIFACB. W 

It has been the study of the author, to make every recipe plain, 
and the proportiouB certain ; little is left to discretion, that could bo 
reduced to measure. The system of confectionery is perfect ; and if 
strictly followed every cook may become a first rate confectioner. 
Labor, care, and expense have been bestowed upon the work, and the 
publishers feel so secure of its merit, and of the public want of such a 
book, that they have caused it to be stereotyped. This would have 
been hazardous with a novel or almost any Uterary work; but the 
number of those who eat is far greater than of those who read. A 
good book few can estimate ; all can enjoy a good dinner, and the 
publishers anticipate a proportionate encouragement. 

Having devised this work for families, we hope that it may offend 
no one, that we give a word of counsel to domestics : our book may 
be every way good, yet will its usefulness be much impaired if do- 
mestics are not docile and faithful. 

We have fortunately, in this country, but one class of people : a1^ 
are free, and all are politically equal. Our domestics are in New 
England designated as help^ to indicate that they are the equals, and 
assistants, rather than the inferiors of their employers. Yet the 
feeling of independence may be carried too far, and it may be ungra- 
ciously expressed. There is no disgrace, and there should be no 
shame in filling well a subordinate station; the hired ploughmao, 
maid, or cook are not, in an offensive sense, any more the servants of 
their employers, than the merchant and the lawyer. All these engage 
to perform certain services for an equivalent, and it is the duty of all 
to do them faithfully. 

The number of domestics is very large — perhaps the average is 
^Ye to four families — and it may be even greater. Yet, unfortunate- 
ly for their welfare, interest, or character, they are almost constantly 
sbifling, and in few families do they remain long. In England, a 
good domestic is often provided for during life, and it is a desirable 
situation. It might be so here, if our domestics would strive to ac- 
commodate themselves to their situation. There is hardly a family, 
in which a kind, respectful, and faithful domestic might not be retained 
for yeais, and at the best wages. Here then is a home, comfort, and 
fiiends. Yet the greater number are contented to live a few months 
in a place, till the best years of life have slipped away, without pro- 
vision for age, and without friends, or home. The proverb of the 
rolling stone contains the best lesson for domestics. 

Service in any department is no sacrifice of independence. A 
domestic is in all tl^ngs as free as any other class, but it is a 
bad kind of independence that would lead one, when desired to do a 



^ PRBFACX. 



llniig in the line of a common employment, to do it ungracaouslx 
and rather as an irksome or unjust task, thim as a duty. 

» 
Minor vexations, frequendy repealed, are equal to greal»r Individ^ 
ual calamities; as many small enjoyments conisftitute mvtch a£ the 
pleasures ci Mfe. Around the social hoard every meBih«r of Uie fam* 
ily is collected thrice At least in twenty-foor hours. Thither ibt9 
head of the fkmjly returns from the labors or cares of his bumoess to 
recruit his strength and to relax his mind. If he reUtm to a table 
constantly and invariably ill spread ; to a dinner to which he could 
invite no friend, and in which he can have no enjoyment ; a cloud 
will gather on the calmest brow, and a feeling of dissatisfaction may 
he extended to other things. It is not beneath the sollckude of a 
good wife, who would not suffer any abatement in the^a^ectiioii ojf 
which she is the object, diligently to study this book, and constantly 
to provide a neat and well dressed repast. 

BosTOir, March, 1832. 



MANAGEMENT OF FAMIUES. 



In domestic arrangement the table is entitled to no small share 
of attention, as a well conducted system of domestic management 
is the foundation of every comfort ; and the respectability and 
welfare of families depend in a great measure on the prudent 
conduct of the female, whose provmce it is to manage the domes- 
tic concerns. 

However the fortunes of individuals may support a large expen* 
diture, it will be deficient in all that can benefit or grace society, 
and in every thing essential to moral order and rational happiness, 
if not conducted on a regular system, embracing all the objects 
of such a situation. 

In domestic management, as in education, so much must depend 
on the particular circumstances of every case, that it is impossible 
to lay clown a system which can be generally applicable. 

The immediate plan of every family must be adapted to its own 
peculiar situation, and can only result from the good sense and 
early good habits of the parties, acting upon general rational 
principles. 

What one family is to do, must never be measured by what 
another family does. Each one knows its own resources, and 
should consult them alone. What might be meanness in oi\e, 
might be .extravagance in another, and therefore there can be no 
standard of reference but that of individual prudence. The most 
fatal of all things to private families, is to indulge an ambition to 
make an appearcuice above their fortunes, professions, or business, 
whatever these may be. 

The next point, both for comfort and respectability, is, that all 
the household economy should be uniform, not displaying a parade 
of show in one thing, and a total want of comfort in another. Be- 
sides the contemptible appearance that 'this must have to every 
person of good sense, it is productive of consequences, not only of 
present, but future injury to a family, that are too oflen irreparable. 

In great cities in particular, how common is it that for the vani- 
ty of having a showy drawing-room to receive company, the family 
are confined to a close back room, where they have scarcely either 
air or light, the want of which must materially prejudice their 
health. 

To keep rooms for show, where the fortune is equal to having 
a house that will accommodate the family properly, and admit of 
this also, belongs to the highest "sphere of life ; but in private fam- 
ilies, to shut up the only room perhaps in the house which is really 
wholesome for the family to live in, is inflicting a kind of lingering 



nu FAMILY MANAOSMENT. 

murder upon the inmates; and yet how frequently this considera- 
tion escapes persons who mean well by their family, but who still 
have a grate, a carpet, and chairs, too fine for every day's use. 

Another fruit of this evil is, seeing more company, and in a 
more expensive manner than is compatible with the general con- 
venience of the family, introducing with it an expense in dress, 
and a dissipation of time, from which it suffers in various ways. 

Social intercourse is not improved by parade, but quite the 
contrary; real friends, and the pleasantest kind of acquaintance, 
those who like to be sociable, are repulsed by it. It is a failure 
therefore every way — the loss, of what is really valuable, and an 
abortive attempt to be fashionable. 

A fundamental error in domestic life of very serious extent, 
involving no less, the comfort than the health of the family, arises 
from the ignorance or mistaken notions of the mistress of the house 
^ upon the subjects of diet and cookery. 

The subject of cookery is thought by too many wonien to be 
below their attention, or, when practically engaged in, it is with 
no other consideration about it than, in the good housewife's 
phrase, to make the most of every thing, whether good, bad, or 
indifferent; or to contrive a thousand mischievous compositions, 
both savory and sweet, to recommend their own ingenuity. 

If cookery is worth studying, as a sensual gratification, it is 
surely much more so as a means of securing one of the greatest of 
human blessings — good health ; and we cannot quit this part of the 
subject of dom«^stic management without observing, that one cause 
of a great deal of injurious cookery originates in the same vanity 
of show that is productive of so many other evils. In order to 
set out a table with a greater number of dishes than the situation 
of the family requires, more cookery is often undertaken than 
there are servants to do it well, or conveniences in the kitchen for 
the purpose. Thus some viands are done before they are wanted 
for serving up, and stand by spoiling, to make room for others; 
these are again perhaps to be succeeded by something else ; and 
too often are things served up that had better be thrown away, 
than to be used for food. 

The leading consideration about food ought always to be its 
wholesomeness. Cookery may produce savory and pretty looking 
dishes without their possessing any of the qualities of food. It is 
at the same time both a serious and ludicrous reflection . that it 
should be thought to do honor to our friends and ourselves to set 
out a table where indigestion and all its train of evils, such as 
fever, rheumatism, gout, and the whole catalogue of human dis- 
eases lie lurking in almost every dish. Yet this is both done, and 
taken as a compliment. We have indeed the *' unbought grace 
of polished society, where gluttony loses half its vice by being 
stripped of its grossness.^' When a man at a public house dies of 
a surfeit of beef steak and porter, who does not exclaim, what a 
beast ! 



COOKlirO VTENS1L8. It 

jHcnraiKfiintelj fveferabie is n dnmer of far less show -wImto 
nabodf »eed he afraid of >wbat ^ley are «ttting! and auoh a one 
«Dli '.fa« genleel and reapedable. If a person can rive his friend 
«n^ ft >leg of Biiilton, uere is nothnig io be ashamed of in it, pro- 
aidedot is a 'good one, and well dresMd. 

A Itoose fitted vip <witli -plain good inmitare, the kitchen fir- 
mshed cwilli dean ^viiolesome^looking cooking utensils, good fires, 
ia gcfltea that give sko anxiety lest* good fire should spoil them, 
elMta 'good tMe linen, ike farniture of the table and sideboard 
good of the -kind, wi^ont ostentation, and a well<-dreseed plain 
dinner, bespeak a sound judgment and correct taste in a private 
l8mily,.*hat place it -eiim footing of respectability with the first 
characters in the country. It is only the conforming to our sphere, 
not the "vasnly attempting to be above it, that can command true 
nspect. 

€OOKDfG UTENSILS. 

The ^F«rio«a titensib saed for the preparation and keeping of 
^Md are'snade either of BMtid, glass, pottery ware, or wood; each 
^tmkidtk 18 l)elter suited to some particular purposes than the 
others. 'MelaHic uteoAls are <i«ite unfit for manpr uses, and the 
kaewie^ge «rf tfam is necessaiyto die preservation of health in 
general, and sometimes to the prevention of immediate dangerous 



The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels 
ave Oliver, copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is prefera- 
ble to alb the othens, ^Deeaose it cannot be dissolved by any of the 
sabstaBceaaeed as ^od. Brimstone unites with silver, and forms 
atfain teittie «rurt over it, tiiat gives it the appearanee of being 
tarnished, which naay be accidentally taken with food; but this 
is not particularly unwholesome, nor is it liable to be tafken often, 
aor in large quantities. The discoloring of silver spoons used 
with-eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs. — Nitre or 
saitpetre has also a slight effect upon silver, but nitre and silver 
seldom remain long enough together in domestic uses to require 
aay-particular caution. 

Copper and brass are botii liable to be dissolved by vinegar, 
acid fruits, and pearl-ash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, 
and great caution should be used to prevent accidents of the kind. 
Vessels made of these metals are generally tinned, that is, lined 
with a thin coating of a mixed metal, containing both tin and lead 
Neither acids, nor any thing containing pearl-ash, should ever be 
Bullered to remain above an hour in vessels of this kind, as the 
tinninff is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom perfect 
over the surface of the copper or brass. 

The utensils made of what is called block tin are constructed 
of iron plates coated with tin. This is equally to be dissolved as 
the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwhole- 



X DIET. 

some substance, if even a portion of it should be dissolved and 
mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for 
the construction of culinary utensils ; and the objection to its more 
extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires 
more cleaning and soon decays. Some articles of food, such as 
quinces, orange peel, artichokes, &c. are blackened by remaining 
in iron vessels, which therefore must not be used for them. 

Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be 
used for milk and cream, if it be ever likely to stand till it become 
sour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted 
meats. 

The best kind of pottery ware is oriental china, because the 
glazing is a perfect glass, which cannot be dissolved, and the 
whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. 
Many of the English pottery wares are badly glazed, and as the 
glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid put- 
ting vinegar, and other acids into them. Acids and greasy sub- 
stances penetrate into unglazed wares, excepting the strong stone 
ware ; or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence 
give a bad flavor to any thing they are used for afterwards. They 
are quite unfit therefore for keeping pickles or salted meats. 
Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery ware but 
oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits 
ef it. 

Wooden vessels are very proper for the keeping many articles 
of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. 
If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a wooden 
cask or tub, it is sure to taint the vessel so as to make it liable to 
produce a similar effect upon any thing that may be put into it in 
future. It is useful to char the insides of these wooden vessels 
before they are used, by burning wood shavings in them, so as to 
coat the insides with a crust of charcoal. 

As whatever contaminates food in any way must be sure, from 
the repetition of its baneful effects, to injure the health, a due 
precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its 
more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow iron ware 
lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for 
sauces or preserves: indeed it is preferable for every purpose. 



DIET. 

That we require food, as vegetables require water, to support 
our existence, is the primary consideration upon which we should 
take it. But in our general practice of eating, it cannot be said, 
''we eat to live," but are living passages or channels, through 
which we are constantly propelling both solids and fluids, for the 
sake of pleasing our palates, at the severe cost often of our whole 
system. 



DIET. Zl 

A reasonable indulgence in the abundant supplies of nature, 
Converted by art to the purposes of wholesome food, is one of the 
comforts added to the maintenance of life. It is an indiscriminate 
gratification of our tastes, regardless of the consequences that 
maj ensue from it, that is alone blamable. But so great is our 
general apathj in these respects, that even on the occurrence of 
diseases, from which we are all more or less sufferers, we scarce- 
ly ever reflect on our diet, as the principal, if not the sole cause 
of them. We assign them to weather, to infection, to hereditary 
descent, to spontaneous breeding, as if a disease could originate 
without a cause; or to any frivolous imaginary source, without 
sospecting, or being willing to own, mismanagement of ourselves. 

I We derive the renewal of our blood and juices, which are con- 
stantly exhausting, from the substances we take as food. As our 

' food, therefore, is proper or improper, too much or too little, so 

I will our blood and juices be good or bad, overcharged or deficient, 
and our state of health accordingly good or diseased. 

By aliment, or food, is to be understood whatever we eat or 
drink, including seasonings; such as salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, 
&c. &c. Every thing, in short, which we receive into our sto- 
machs. Our food, therefore, consists not only of such particles 

, as are proper for the nourishment and support of the human body, 
but likewise contains certain active principles, viz. salts, oils, and 
spirits, which have the properties of stimulating the solids, quick- 
ening the circulation, and making the fluids thinner; thus render- 
ing them more suited to undergo the necessary secretions of the 
body. 

The art of preserving health, and obtaining long life, therefore 
consists in the use of a moderate quantity of such diet as shall 
neither increase the salts and oils, so as to produce disease, nor 
diminish them, so as to sufler the solids to become relaxed. 

It is very diflicult, almost impossible, to ascertain exactly what 
are the predominant qualities either in our bodies or in the food 
we eat. In practice, therefore, we can have no other rule but 
observing by experience what it is that hurts or does ais good ; 
and what it is our stomach can digest with facility, or the contrary. 
But then we must keep our judgment unbiassed, and not sufler it 
to become a pander to the appetite, and thus betray the stomach 
and health, to indulge our sensuality. 

The eating too little is hurtful, as well as eating too much. 
Neither excess, nor hunger, nor any thing else that passes the 
bounds of nature, can be good to man. 

By loading the stomach, fermentation is checked, and of course 
digestion impeded; for the natural juice of the stomach has not 
room to exert itself, and it therefore nauseates its contents, is 
troubled with eructations, the spirits are oppressed, obstructions 
ensue, and fever is the consequence. Besides, that when thus 
overfilled, the stomach presses on the diaphragm, prevents the 
proper play of the lungs, and occasions uneasiness in our breath- 



Xi\ DitST. 

ing. Hence arise various ill symptoms and depraved effects 
throughout the body, enervating the strength, decaying the senses^ 
hastening old age, and shortening life. Though these effects are 
not injmediately perceived, yet they are certain attendants of 
intemperance; for it has been generally observed in great eaters^ 
that, though from custom, a state of youth, and a strong constitu- 
tion, they have no present inconvenience,, but have digested their 
food, suffered surfeit, and borne their immoderate diet well; if they 
have not been unexpectedly cut off, they have found the symptoms 
of old age come on early in life, attended with pains apd innume* 
rable disorders. 

If we value our health, we must ever make it a rule not to eat 
to satiety or fulness, but desist while the stomach feels quite easy. 
Thus we shall be refreshed, light, and cheerful; not dull, heavy, 
or indisposed* Should we ever be tempted to eat too much at one 
time, we should eat the less at another. Thus, if our dinner has 
been larger than usual, let our supper be less, or rather quite 
omitted ; for there is no man, however careful of his. health, who 
does not occasionally transgress in this way. 

With regard to the times of eating, they must to a certain degree 
be conformed to family convenience, but ought to be quite inde- 
pendent of the caprices of fashion. The great things to be guard- 
ed against are, either eating too soon after a former meal, or 
fasting too long. — The stomach should always have time to empty 
itself before it is filled again. 

Some stomachs digest their contents sooner than others, and if 
long empty it may destroy the appetite, and greatly disturb both 
the head and animal spirits ; for, from the great profusion^of nerves 
spread upon the stomach, there is an immediate sympathy between 
that and the head. Hence the head is sure to be affected by 
whatever disorders the stomach, whether from any particular ali« 
ment that disagrees with it, or being overfilled, or too long empty. 
Such as feel a gnawing in the stomach, as it is called, should not 
wait till the stated time of the next meal, but take a small quanti- 
ty of light, easily digested food, that the stomach may have some- 
thing to work on. 

Young persons in health, who use much exercise, may eat three 
times a day. But such as are in years, such as are weak, as do 
no work, use no exercise, or lead a sedentary life, eating twice in 
the day is sufficient; or, as in the present habits of society, it might 
be difRcult to arrange the taking only two meals, let them take 
three very moderate ones. Old and weak persons r may eat.oflen, 
but then it should be very little at a time* • 

The quality of our food is a subject of greater difficulty than 
the quantity; moderation is an invariably, safe guide in the latter 
instance; but though always favorable to. prevent ill effects from 
ai^ error in quality, it will not always be effectual. 

To a person in good health, with a strong, stomach, and whose 
constant beverage is water, cold or tepid, according to the sea^ 



BiBT. nil 

•on, or some aqueous tiquor, the niceties of choice in food of 
cookery are less material than to persons with naturally weak sto* 
Bichs, or to those ia sickness, or for children. But all persons 
who would to a certainty preserve their health and faculties, and 
live out the natural term of life, should use plain food, as all high 
seasonings ai^ compound mijitures have an injurious effect, soon- 
er or later, on. the strongest constitutions. If a few instances can 
be quoted to the contrary, these, like oth^r anomalies in mature, 
caiuot constitute an exception to a well established fact. 

No part of our aliment is more isnportant than our beverage. 
It is essential to moisten and convey our more solid food into^he 
stomach, and from thence to the respective parts of the body. To 
allay thirst, to dilute the blood, tha^ it may circulate through the 
noDutest vessels, to dissolve and carry off by the watery secre- 
tions the auperfluous salts we take in our food ; to answer thesf 
^rposes no liquid is so effectaal as pure water, with the exception 
of some few cases. No other liquid circulates so well, or mixes so 
immediately with our fluids. All other liquors are impregnated 
with particles which act strongly upon the solids or fluids, or both ; 
but water being simple, operates only by diluting, moistening, and 
cooling, which are the great uses of drink pointed out to us by 
nature. Hence it is evident that water is in general the best and 
most wholesome drink ; but some constitutions require something 
to warm and stimulate the stomach, and then fermented liquors 
taken in moderation are proper; such as beer, ale, cider, wine, 
&c. the choice and quantity of which depend on the age, consti- 
tution, and manner of living of the drinker; and to have them 
pure is above all things essential ; as otherwise, instead of being 
of any benefit, they will be highly detrimental. 

Drams, or distilled spirituous liquors, the use of which is unhap- 
pily very prevalent, are of the most poisonous qualities; and from 
their direful effects are the destruction of thousands. From the 
degree of heat they have undergone in distillation they acquire a 
corrosive and burning quality, which makes them as certain to 
kill as laudanum or arsenic, though not so soon. They contract 
the fibres and vessels of the body, especially where they are 
the tenderest, as in the brain, and thus destroy the intellectual 
faculties. They injure the coat of the stomach, and thus expose 
the nerves and weaken the fibres till the whole stomach becomes 
at last soft, flabby, and relaxed. From whence ensues loss of 
appetite, indigestion, and diseases that generally terminate in 
premature death. Spirituous liquors in any way, whether alone, 
mixed with water, in punch, shrub, noyau, or other liqueurs, are 
all slow poisons. 

It would be endless to enter on an account of the different quali- 
ties of all sorts of wines, but it may be said in general, that all 
the light wines of a moderate strength, due age and maturity, are 
more wholesome for the constitution than the rich, ^ot, strong, 

B 



XIT BOILING. 

heavy wines; for the light wines inflame the juices of the hoiy 
less and go off the stomach with less difficulty. 

The last thing to be said concerning liquors is, that wine an<l 
all other strong liquors, are as hard to digest as solid strong food. 
This is not only evident with respect to persons of weak stomachs 
and digestion, but also from strong healthy people, who only- 
drink either water or small beer at their meals, and are able to 
eat and digest almost double the quantity of what they could if 
they drank strong liquors. It appears very pltfin, therefore, that 
we should not drink strong liquors at our meals, as by their heat 
and activity they hurry the food undigested into the habit of the 
body, and by that means lay a foundation for various distempers. 
An abstinence, in short, from fermented liquors would preserve 
our mental faculties in vigor, and our bodies from many painful^ 
disorders that afflict mankind, as there is no doubt that we may 
principally ascribe to them the gout, rheumatism, stone, cancer^ 
fevers, hysterics, lunacy, apoplexy, and palsy. 



BOILING. 

This most simple of culinary processes is not often performed in 
perfection. It does not require quite so much nicety and atten- 
dance as roasting ; to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiling 
(the slower the better) all the while, to know how long is required 
for doing the joint, &c., and to toke it up at the critical moment 
when it is done enough, comprehends almost the whole art and 
mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigi- 
lance, of which few persons are capable. 

The cook must take especial care that the water really boils all 
the while she is cooking, or she will be deceived in the time ; and 
make up a sufficient fire at first, to last all the time, without much 
mending or stirring. A frugal cook will manage with much less 
fire for boiling than she uses for roasting. 

When the pot is coming to a boil there will always, from the 
cleanest meat and clearest water, rise sl scum to the top of it, pro- 
ceeding partly from the water ; this must be carefully taken off as 
soon as it rises. 

On this depends the good appearance of all boiled things. When 
you have skimmed well, put in some cold water, which will throw 
up the rest of the scum. 

The oflener it is skimmed, and the cleaner the top of the water 
is kept, the sweeter and the cleaner will be the meat. 

If let alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat, which, 
instead of looking delicately white and nice, will have that coarse 
and filthy appearance we have too oflen to complain of, and the 
butcher and poulterer be blamed for the carelessness of the cook 
in not skimming her pot. 



BOILING. 

Many put in milJc, to make what they boil look white ; but this 
does more harm than good : others wrap it up in a cloth ; but 
these are needless precautions : if the scum be attentively removed, 
meat will have a much more delicate color and finer flavor than it 
has when muffled up. .This may give rather moie trouble, but 
those who -wish to excel in their art must only consider how the 
processes of it can be most perfectly performed : a cook, who has 
a proper pride and pleasure in her business, will make thb her 
maxim on all occasions. 

It is desirable that meat for boiling be of an equal thickness, or, 
before thicker parts are done enough, the thinner will be done too 
much. 

Put your meat into cold water, in the proportion of about a quart 
of water to a pound of meat : it should be covered with water during 
the whole of the process of boiling, but not drowned in it ; the less 
water, provided the meat be covered with it, the more savory will 
be the meat, and the better will be the broth. 

The water should be heated gradually, according to the thick- 
ness, &c. of the article boiled. For instance, a leg of mutton of 
ten pounds weight should be placed over a moderate fire, which 
will gradually make the water hot, without causing it to boil for 
about forty minutes ; if the water boils much sooner, the meat will 
be hardened, and shrink up as if it was scorched : by keeping the 
water a certain time heating without boiling, the fibres of the meat 
are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken 
off as soon as it rises. 

The editor placed a thermometer in water in that state which 
cooks call gentle simmering ; the heat was 212^, i. e. the same 
degree as the strongest boiling. 

Two mutton chops were covered with cold water; one boiled a 
gallop, while the other simmered very gently for three-quarters of 
an hour : the chop which was slowly simmered was decidedly su- 
perior to that which was boiled ; it was much tenderer, more juicy, 
and much higher flavored. The liquor which boiled fast was in 
like proportion more savor^, and when cold had much more fat 
on its surface. This explains why quick boiling renders meat 
hard, &c., because its juices are extracted in a greater degree. 

Reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. 

The old rule of 15 minutes to a pound of meat, we think rather 
too little : the slower it boils, the tenderer, the plumper, and whiter 
it will be. 

For those who choose their food thoroughly cooked (which all 
will who have any regard for their stomachs) , twenty minutes to a 
pound for fresh, and rather more for salted meat, will not be found 
too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire, allowing 
more or less time, according to the thickness of the joint, and the 
coldness of the weather : to know the state of which, let a ther- 
mometer be placed in the pantry ; and when it falls below 40 '', tell 



±ti BAKING. 

jour cook to ^ive rather more time in both roasting and boilfli^, 
always remembering, the slower it boils the better. 

Without some practice it is difficult to teach any art ; and cooltd 
seem to suppose they must be right, if they put meat into a pot,. 
and set it over the fire for a certain time, making no allowance 
whether it simmers without a bubble or boils a gallop. 

Fresh-killed meat will take much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe ; and lon^^ 
er in cold than in warm weather : if it be/rozen, it must be thawed 
before boiling as before roasting ; if it be fresh-killed, it will be 
tough and hard, if you stew it ever so long, and ever so gently. 
In cold weather, the night before the day you dress it, bring it into 
a place of which the temperature is not less than 45 decrees of 
Fd.renheit's thermometer 

The size of the boiling-ppts should be adapted to what they ar4^ 
to contain : the larger the saucepan the more room it takes upots 
the fire, and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate 
increase of fire to boil it. 

In small families we recommend block-tin saucepans, &c. a^ 
lightest and safest. If proper care is taken of them, and they are 
well dried after they are cleaned, they are by far the cheapest ; 
the purchase of a new tin saucepan being little more than the ex-* 
pense of tinning a copper one. 

Let the covers of your boiling-pots lit close, not only to prevent 
unnecessary evaporation of the water, but to prevent the escape 
of the nutritive matter, which must then remain either in the meat 
or in the broth ; and the smoke is prevented from insinuating itself 
under the edge of the lid, and so giving the meat a bad taste. 

If you let meat or poultry remain in the water after it is done 
enough, it will become sodden, and lose its flavor. 

Beef and mutton a little under-done (especially very large joints^ 
whiph will make the better hash or broil,) is not a great fault ; bj 
some people it is preferred : but lamb, pork, and veal are uneata- 
ble if not thoroughly boiled ; but do not ovpr-do them. 

A trivet or fish-drainer put on the bottom of the boiling-pot, rais- 
mg the contents about an inch and a half from the bottom, wiA 
prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom from 
being done too much, and the lower part of the meat will be as 
delicately done as the other piEtrt ; and this will enable you to take 
out the contents of the pot, without sticking a fork, &c. into it. 
If you have not a trivet, use four skewers^ or a soup-plate laid the 
wrong side upwards. 

BAKING. 

baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of 
dressing a dinner in small families; and, I may say, that the oven 
is oflen the only kitchen a poor man has^ if he wishes to enjoy ia 
joint of meat. 



BAKING. IVU 

1 do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roastiDg to 
baking ; but some joints, when baked, so nearly approach to the 
same when roasted, that I have known them tQ be carried to the 
table, and eaten as such with great satisfaction. 

Legs and loins of pork, legs of mutton, fillets of veal, and many 
other joints, will bake to great advantage, if the meat be good; 
I mean well-fed, rather inclined to be fat: if the meat be poor, no 
baker can give satisfaction. 

When baking a poor joint of meat, before it has been half 
baked I have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely 
to be believed. 

Besides those joints above mentioned, I shall enumerate a few 
baked dishes which I can particularly recommend. 

A pig, when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have 
its ears and tail covered with buttered paper properly fastened on, 
and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back 
with, otherwise it will be apt to blister: with a proper share of 
attention from the baker, I consider this way equal to a roasted 
one. 

A goose prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have 
it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. 
A duck the same. 

A buttock of beef the following way is particularly fine. Afler 
it has been in salt about a week, to be well washed, and put into 
a brown earthen pan with a pint of water; cover the pan tight 
with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper: never 
cover anything that is to be baked with brown paper, the pitch 
and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad 
taste: give it four or five hours in a moderately heated oven. 

A ham (if not too old) put in soak for an hour, taken out and 
wiped, a crust made sufficient to cover it all over, and baked in 
a moderately heated oven, cuts fuller of gravy, and of a finer 
flavor, than a boiled one. I have been in the habit of baking 
small cod-fish, haddock, and mackerel, with a dust of flour, ana 
some bits of butter put on them; eels, when large and stuffed; 
herrings and sprats, in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little 
spice, and tied over with paper. A hare, prepared the same as 
for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a little drop of jnilk 
put into the dish, and basted several times, will be found nearly 
equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a 
jar or pan, and cover it over and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about three hours. In the same manner, I have been in the hab- 
it of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c. prepared with 
a seasoning of onions, turnips, &c.: they will take about four 
hours: let them stand till cold, to skim off the fat; then warm it 
up all together, or part, as you may want it. 
All these I have been in the habit of baking for the first families. 
The time each of the above articles should take depends much 
upon the state of the oven, and I do consider the baker a suf- 

B* 



Zmi ROASTING. 



'fict^fBlt judge; if they are sent to him in time, he mast be veryr 
neglectful if they are not ready at the time they are ordered. 



ROASTING. 

Let the young cook never forget ihat cleanliness is the chicrf 
cardinal virtue of the kitchen; the first preparation for roastjng 
is to take care that the spit be properly cleaned with sand and 
water; nothing else. When it has been well scoured with this, 
dry it with a clean cloth. If spits are wiped clean as soon as ther 
-meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a very little 
cleaning will be required. The less the spit is passed through 
the -meat the better; and, before you spit it, joint it properly, es- 
pecially necks and loins, that the carver may separate them easi-^ 
iy and neatly, and take especial care it be evenly balanced on 
the ^pit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire operate 
^equally on each part of it; therefore, be provided with balancing- 
skewers and cookholds, and see it is properly jointed. 

Make up the fire in time; let it be proportioned to the dinner 
to be dressed, and about three or four inches longer at each end 
than the thing to be roasted, or the ends of the meat cannot be 
done nice and brown. 

A cook must be as particular to proportion her fire to ,the busi- 
ness she has to do, as a chemist: the degree of heat most desira- 
ble for dressing the different sorts of food ought to be attended 
to with the utmost precision. 

The fire that is but just sufficient to receive the noble sirloin 
will parch up a lighter joint. 

Never put meat down to a burned-up fire, if you can possibly 
avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a 
considerable distance, and allow a little more time. 

Preserve the fat, by covering it with paper, for this purpose 
called *' kitchen-paper," and tie it on with fine twine; pins and 
skewers can by no means be allowed ; they are so many taps to 
let out the gravy: besides, the paper oflen starts from them and 
catches fire, to the great injiiry of the meat. 

If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should 
be little and brisk: when you have a large joint to roast, make up 
a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part, or your meat 
cannot be equally roasted, nor have that' uniform color which 
constitutes the beauty of good roasting. 

Give the fire a good stirring before you lay the joint down; 
examine it from time to time while the spit is going round; keep 
it 'clear at the bottom, and take cat'e there are no smoky coals in 
the front, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and 
hinder it from roasting evenly. 

When the joint to be -roasted is thicker at one end than the 
dther, place the spit slaiiting, with the thickest pBii nearest the*fire 



BAAtmro. lis 

Do not put luetft too near the fire at first; the larger the joint, 
the farther it must be kept from the fire: if ooce it gets seorchedy 
the ootside will become hard, and acquire a disagreeable, emp3rr- 
evmatic <aste ; and the fire being prevented from penetrating inte 
it, the mestt will appear done before it is little more than half 
done, besides losing the pale brown color, which it is the beantj 
^rf* roasted meat to have. 

Be Terj carcffiil lo place the dripping-pan at such a disiance 
from 'the fire as just to catch the drippings: if it is too near, the 
ashes will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. • 

If k is too far from the fire to catch them, you will not only lose 
yonr drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by 
the 'totid smoke, ^vhich will «rise when the fat falls on the live 
cinders. 

A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes. It 
shonld not be less than twenty-eight inches long and twenty inch- 
es wide^ and have a covered well on the side from the fire, to 
collect the drippings ; this will preserve them in the most delicate 
state : in a pan of the above size you may set fried fish, and vari- 
ous dishes, to keep hot. 

The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the 
time it has been kept, and the temperature of the weather; the 
same weight will be twenty minutes or haff an hour longer in 
cold weather, than it will be in wafm; and if fresh killed, than if 
it has been kept till it is tender. 

Everybody knows the advantage ofsUno bailing. Shw roa$iing 
is equally important. 

It is difficult to give any specific rule for time; but if your fire 
is made as before directed, your meat-screen sufiiciently large to 
guard what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat 
is not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old general 
rule of allowing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the 
pound ; a little more or t^ss, according to the temperature of the 
weather, in proportion as^the piece is thick or thin, the strength 
of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with 
#hich you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it will take, 
as it keeps the meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the fire 
acts with more force upon it. 

^ Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, but 
-to the moment the roasts will be wanted. Supposing there are a 
dozen people to sip soup and eat fish first, you may allow them 
'ten or fifteen minutes for the former, and about as long for the 
latter, more or less, according to the temptations the ^'BON gout" 
of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. 

When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pan 
•back, and stir up your fire thoroughly, that it may burn clear and 
bright for the browning; when the steam from the meat draws to- 
wards the fire, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will 
•be the best judge of that, from the time it has been dpwn, the 



XL FRTINO. 

strength of the lire you have used, and the distance your spit has 
been from it. 

Half an hour before your meat is done, make some gravy, and 
just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If 
you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour carefully: 
you cannot do this delicately nice without a very good light. 
The. common fault seems to be using too much flour. The meat 
should have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of 
being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the 
froth use butter instead of drippings. 

A good cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and 
color of her roasts, as a young beauty is to her complexion at a 
birthday ball. If your meat does not brown so much, or so even- 
ly -as you wish, take two ounces of glaze, i. e. portable soup, put 
four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradu 
ally by the side of the Are. This will be done in about a quarter 
of an hour; put it on the meat equally all over with a paste-brush 
the last thing before it goes to table. 

Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally 
considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cook- 
ery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it perfect- 
ly well than it does to make most made dishes. 

That made dishes are the most difficult preparations, deserves 
to be reckoned among the culinary vulgar errors; in plain roast- 
ing and boiling it is not easy to repair a mistake once made ; and 
all the discretion and attention of a steady, careful cook, must 
be unremittingly upon the alert. 



FRYING. 

Frying is ofl;en a convenient mode of cookery; it may be per- 
formed by a fire which will not do for roasting or boiling ; and by 
the introduction of the pan between the meat and the Are, things 
get more equally dressed. 

The Dutch oven or bonnet is a very convenient utensil for small 
things, and a very useful substitute for the jack, the gridiron, or 
frying-pan. 

A frying-pan should be about four inches deep, with a perfectly 
flat and thick bottom, twelve inches long and nine broad, with 
perpendicular sides, and must be half filled with fat: good frying 
is, in fact, boiling in fat. To make sure that the pan is quite 
clean, rub a little fat over it, and then make it warm, and wipe it 
out with a clean cloth. 

Be very particular in frying, never to use any oil, butter, lard, 
or drippings, but what is quite clean, fresh, and free from salt. 
Any thing dirty spoils the look; any thing bad-tasted or stale, 
spoils the flavor; and salt prevents its browning. 

Fine olive oil is the most delicate for frying ; but the best oil is 
expensive, and bad oil spoils every thing that is dressed with it 



tllTt]IO« ttl 

For general purposes, and especially for fish, clean fresh lard 
is not near so expensive as oil w clarified butter, and does almost 
as well. Butter often burns before you are aware of it; and what 
you fry will get a dark and dirty appearance. 

Dripping, if nicely ctean and fresh, is almost as good as any 
tiling; if not clean, it may he easily clarified. Whaterer fat you 
use, after you have done frying, let it remain in the pan for a few 
minutes, and then pour it throiq;h a sieve into a clean basin; it 
will do three or four times as well as it did at first, t. e, if it has not 
burned: bnt, the fat you have fried fish in must not be used for 
any other purpose. 

To know when the ftU is of a proper heat, according ko what 
you are to fry, is the great secret m frying. 

To fry fish, parsley, potatoes, or any thmg that is watery, your 
fire mast be very clear, and the fat quite hot; which you may be 
pretty sure of, when it has done hismng, and is still. We cannot 
insist too jstrongiy on this point: if the fat is not very hot, you 
cannot fry fish either to a good color, or firm uid crisp. 

To be quite certain, throw a little bit of bread into the pan; if it 
fries crisp, the fat is ready; if it burns the bread, it is too hot. 

llie fire vndit^ the pan must be clear «nd sharp, otherwise the 
fat is so long before it becomes ready, and demands such attend- 
ance to prevent the accident of its catching fire, that the patience 
of cooks is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance or im- 
patience, throw in what they are going to (rj before the fat is half 
hot enouj^. Whatever is so fried wiU be pale and sodden, and 
ofifend^the palate and stomach not less than the eye. . 

Have a good light to fry by, that jrou may see when you have 
got the right color: a lamp fixed on a stem, with a loaded foot, 
which has an arm that lengthens out, and slides up and down like 
a reading candlestick, is a most usefiil appendage to kitchen fire- 
places, which are very seldom light enough for the nicer opera- 
tions G^ cookery. 

After all, if you do not thoroughly drain the fiit from what vou 
have fried, especially from those things that are fiill dressed in 
bread crumbs, or biscuit powder, &c., your cooking will do you 
no credit. 

The dryness offish depends tnuch upon its having been fried in 
fat of a due degree of heat ; it is then crisp and dry in a few min- 
utes after it is taken out of the pan: when it is not, lay it on a soft 
cloth before the fire, turning it occasionally, till it is. This will 
sometimes take fifteen minutes: therefore, always fry fish as long 
as this before you want them, for fear you may find this necessary. 
To firy fish, see receipt to fry soles, which is the only circum- 
stantial account of the process that has yet been printed. If the 
cook will study it with a little attention, she must soon become an 

accomplished frier. 

. Frying, though one of the most common of culinary operations^ 

IS one that is least commonly performed perfectly well. 



3aui BROILING. 



BROILING. 



Cleanliness is extremely essential in this mode of cookery. 

Keep your gridiron quite clean between the bars, and bright on 
the top: when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth: just befoircs 
you use it, rub the bars with clean mutton-suet, to prevent tbi.^ 
meat from being marked by the gridiron. 

Take care to prepare your fire in time, so that it may burri 
quite clear; a brisk and clear fire is indispensable, or you cannot 
give your meat that browning which constitutes the perfection o£" 
this mode of cookery, and gives a relish to food it cannot receive 
any other way. 

The chops or slices should be from half to three-quarters of axM. 
inch in thickness ; if thicker, they will be done too much on the 
outside before the inside is done enough. 

Be diligently attentive to watch the moment ^hat any thing is 
done: never hasten any thing that is broiling, lest you make 
smoke and spoil it. 

Jjct the bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not 
burning hot upon the surface : this is the perfect and fine condition 
of the gridiron. 

As the bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers, it 
is absolutely, necessary they should be thoroughly hot before the 
thing to be cooked be laid on them. 

The bars of gridirons should be made concave, and terminate in 
a trough to catch the gravy and keep the fat from dropping into 
the fire and making a smoke, which will spoil the broil. 

Upright gridirons are the best, as they can be used at any fire 
without fear of smoke ; and the gravy is preserved in the trough 
under them. 

N. B. Broils must be brought to table as hot as possible; set a 
dish to heat when you put your chops on the gridiron, from whence 
to the mouth their progress must be as quick as possible. 

When the fire is not clear, the business of the gridiron may be 
done by the Dutch oven or bonnet. 

Take care to have a very clear, brisk fire ; throw a little salt on 
it; make the gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat 
from dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. It requires 
more practice and care than is generally supposed to do steaks to 
a nicety; and for want of these little attentions, this very common 
dish, which every body is supposed capable of dressini^, seldom 
comes to table in perfection. 

Ask those you cook for, if they like it under, or thoroughly 
done; and what accompaniments they like best; it is usual to put 
a table-spoonful of ketchup, or a little minced eschalot, into a dish 
before the fire ; while you are broiling, turn the steak, &c. with a 
pair of steak-tongs, it will be done in about tenor fifteen minutes; 
rub a bit of butter over it, and send it up garnished with pickles 
and finely-scraped horse-radish. 



BROTHS AKD SOUPS. 



BROTHS AND SOUPS. 



The cook must pay continual attention to the condition of her 
stew-pans, soup-kettles, 8lc. which should he examined every time 
they are used. The prudent housewife will carefully examine the 
condition of them herself at least once a month. Their covers 
also must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, and the stew- 
pans not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the 
outside: many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair; 
and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will be in vain ; 
the broths and soups will look green and dirty, taste bitter and 
poisonous, and will be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and 
your credit will be lost. 

The health, and even life of the family, depends upon this, and 
the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's 
bill than the doctor's; therefore, attention to this cannot fail to 
engage the regard of the mistress, between whom and the cook it 
will be my utmost endeavor to promote perfect harmony. 

If she has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her 
pan, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, I ad- 
vise her, by all means, immediately to acquaint her employers, 
who will thank her for candidly mentioning an accident; and cen- 
sure her deservedly if she conceal it. 

Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tammy cloths, 
spoons and ladles. Make it a rule without an exception, never to 
use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any 
stew-pans, &c. without first washing them out with boiling water, 
and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean 
them from grease, sand, &c., or any bad smell they may have got 
since they were last used: never neglect this. 

Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut 
as to wilfully neglect her broth-pots, &c., yet we may recommend 
her to wash them immediately, and take care they are thoroughly 
dried at the fire, before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry 
place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon: attend to 
this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up. 

Never put by any soup, gravy, &c. in metal utensils; in which 
never keep any thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the 
purposes of cookery; the acid, vegetables, fat, &c. employed in 
making soups, &c. are capable of dissolving such utensils: there- 
fore stone or earthern vessels should be used for this purpose. 

Stew-pans, soup-pots, and preserving pans, with thick and round 
bottoms (such as saucepans are made with), will wear twice as 
long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides 
are soldered to the bottom, for sand and grease get into the 
joined part, and cookeys say that it is next to an impossibility to 
dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebuchadnezzar's. 

Take care that the lids fit as close as possible, that the broth. 



XXiy BOOTHS AND SOUPS. 

soup, and sauces, &c. may not waste by evaporation. They ar^ 
good for nothing, unless they lit tight enough to keep the steam ii 
and the smoke out. 

Stew-pans and saucepans should be always bright on the uppei 
rim, where the fire does not burn them; but to scour them all ovei 
is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out th< 
vessels. 

Lean, juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; pro- 
cure those pieces which afford the richest succulence, and as fresli 
killed as possible. 

Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat 
is wasted. This only applies to those broths which are required 
to be perfectly clear: fat and clarified drippings may be so com- 
bined with vegetable mucilage, as to afford, at the small cost of 
one penny per quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fully ade- 
quate to satisfy appetite and support strength : this will open ^ 
new source to those benevolent housekeepers, who are disposed 
to relieve the poor, will show the industrious classes how much 
they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them 
from being objects of charity dependent on the precarious bounty 
of others, by teaching them how they may obtain a cheap, abun- 
dant, salubrious, and agreeable aliment for themselves and fam- 
ilies. 

This soup has the advantage of. being very easily and very soon 
made, with no more fuel than is necessary to warm a room. Those 
who have not tasted it, cannot imagine what a salubrious, savory, 
and satisfying meal is produced by the judicious combination of 
cheap homely ingredients. 

The general fault of our soups seems to be the employment of 
an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. 

There is no French dinner without soup, which is regarded as 
an indispensable overture; and believe it an excellent plan to begin 
the banquet with a basin of good soup, which, by moderating the 
appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salu'tiferous custgrn. 

We again caution the cook to avoid over-seasoning, especially 
with predominant flavors, which, however agreeable they may be 
to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. 

Zest, soy, cavice, coratch, anchovy, curry powder, savory ra- 
gout powder, soup herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle li- 
quor, beer, wine, and sweet herbs, and savory spice, are very 
convenient auxiliaries to finish soups, &c. 

The proportion of wine should not exceed a large wine-glass- 
fbl to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted, 
without the vinous flavor becoming remarkably predominant; 
though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is 
•'ncomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more 
flavor, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even 
veritable eau de vie is ordered in many books, and used by many 
(especially tavern cooks). So much are their soups overloaded 



BmOTHS AKB SOUFt. SXT 

widi rsHsh, th«C if joa will eat enough of them they will certainly 
make yoa drank, if they don't make you aick: all this frequently 
arises from an old cook measuring the excitability of the eaters' 
psiateB by his own, which may be so blunted by incessant tasting, 
that to awaken it, requires win3 Instead of water, and cayenne 
and garlic lor black pepper and onion. 

Hie art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the seve- 
ral ingre^yents one to another, that no particular taste be strong- 
er than the rest, but to produce such a fine harmonious relish that 
the whole is delightrul. This requires that judicious combination 
ef tile materials which constitutes the **chrf d^cBmore** of culinary 
science. 

In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be per- 
fectly well cleaned ; proportion the water to the quantity of meat 
and other ingredients, generally a pound of meat to a quart of 
water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they 
stew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is ex- 
pected at the end; for when the pot is covered quite close, and 
the fire gentle, very little is wasted. 

Cientle stewing is incomparably the best; the meat is more ten- 
der, and the soup better flavored. 

It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle 
should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are 
aware of it. 

Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, which will make the 
water hot without causing it to boil for at least half an hour; if 
the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat, and 
cleanse it from the clotted blood, and other matters which ought to 
go off in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat; 
will shrink up as if it was scorched, and give hardly any gravy: 
on the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heatmff with- 
out boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres are dilated, 
and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken off as soon 
as it appears. 

It is not till after a good half hour's hot infiision that we^ may 
mend the fire, and make the pot boil : still continue to remove the 
scum; and when no more appears, put in the vegetables, &c. and 
a little salt. These will cause more scum to rise, which must be 
taken off immediately; then cover the pot very closely, and place 
it at a proper distance firom the fire, where it will boil very gently, 
and equally, and by no means fast. 

By quick and strong boiling the volatile and finest parts of tha 
ingredients are evaporated, and fiy off with the steam, and the 
coarser parts are rendered soluble ; so you lose the good, and get 
the bad. 

Soups will generally take from three to six hours. 

Prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want 
them. This will give you more time to attend to the rest of your 
dinner the next day; and when the soup is cold, the fai may be 

C 



XXYl BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

much more easily and completely removed from the surface of it. 
When you decant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at tho 
bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through, 
a sieve, or even through a tamis, which is the best strainer, the 
soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned 
than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through & 
clean tamis or napkin, previously soaked in cold water ; the cold- 
ness of this will coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure broth 
to pass through. 

The full flavor of the ingredients can only be extracted by very 
long and slow simmering ; during which take care to prevent 
evaporation, by covering the pot as close as possible: the best 
stew-pot is a digester. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent; thickened soups, 
about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened 
soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. 

To thicken and give body to soups and sauces, the following 
materials are used: they must be gradually mixed with the soup 
till thoroughly incorporated with it; and it should have at least 
half an hour's gentle simmering afler: if it is at all lumpy, pass it 
through a tamis or a fine sieve. Bread raspings, bread, isinglass, 
potato mucilage, flour, or fat skimmings and flour, or flour and 
butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed well together. 

To their very rich gravies, &c. the French add the white meat 
of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp, and rubbed 
through a sieve. A piece of beef, which has been boiled to make 
broth, pounded in the like manner with a bit of butter and flour, 
and gradually incorporated with the gravy or soup, will be found 
a satisfactory substitute for these more expensive articles. 

Meat from which broth has been made and all its juice has been 
extracted, is then excellently well prepared for potting, and is 
quite as good, or better, than that which has been baked till it is 
dry; indeed, if it be pounded, and seasoned in the usual manner, 
it will be an elegant and savory luncheon, or supper, and costs 
nothing but the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, and a 
relish is procured for sandwiches, &.c. of what heretofore has been 
by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite of the cat. 

Keep some spare broth lest your soup-liquor waste in boiling, 
and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various 
sauces, &c.; for many oi^ which it is a much better basis than 
melted butter. 

The soup of mock turtle, and the other thickened soups, will 
supply you with a thick gravy sauce for potdtry, fah, ragouts, &c. ; 
and by a little management of this sort, you may generally con- 
trive to have plenty of good gravies and good sayces with very 
little trouble or expense. 

If soup is too thin or too weak, take off the cover of your soup- 
pot; and let it boil till some of the watery part of it lias evaporated, 
or else add some of the thickening materials we have before men- 



OBSKRVATIOIIS. XXfll 

tioned ; and have at hand some plain browning. This simple pre- 
paration is much better than any of the compounds bearing that 
aame; as it colors sauce or soup without much interfering with its 
flavor, and is a much better way of coloring them than burning 
the surface of the meat. 

When soups and gravies are kept from day to day, in hoi weaiher^ 
they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded 
tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in temperate weather ' 
every other day may be enough. 

We hope we have now put the common cook into possession of 
the whole arcana of soup-making, without much trouble to herself, 
or expense to her employers. It would greatly diminish the ex- 
pense, and improve soups, if the agents employed to give them a 
zest were not put in above fifteen minutes hefore the finish, and 
half the quantity of spice, &c. would do. A strong heat soon dis- 
sipates the spirit of the wine, and evaporates the aroma and flavor 
of the spices and herbs, which are volatile in the heat of boiling 
water. 

Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much 
sooner and better than those that are cold and raw : on this ac- 
count, RESTORATIVE SOUP is the bcst fi>od for those who are en- 
feebled by disease or dissipation, and for old people, whose teeth 
and digestive organs are impaired. 

After catching cold, in nervous headaches, cholics, indigestions, 
and different kinds of cramp and spasms in the stomach, warm 
broth is of excellent service. 

After intemperate feasting, to give the stomach a holyday for a 
day or two by a diet on mutton broth, or vegetable soup,'&c. is the 
best way to restore its tone. " The stretching any power to its 
utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be everv day obliged to 
do as much as it can, it will every day be able to do less. A wise 
traveller will never force his horse to perform as much as he can 
in one day upon a long journey." 



OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN ARTICLES. 

We shall conclude these Introductory Observations, with a few 
remarks on the qualities of certain Articles in common use. 

BuUer. 

Well made pure butter is lenient and nourishing, eaten cold, 
in moderation, with bread. But upon hot new bread, or hot 
toast, or used as sauce to animal food, it is not wholesome. In 
the two first instances it is very apt to turn acid in the stomach ; 
and in the latter, to float uppermost in the stomach, and disturb 
the digestion. If melted thick and carefully, and eaten with 
vegetable food and bread only, it is not so liable to this objection. 

Butter is good for dry, constipated habits, but not for such aa 
are bilious, asthmatic, or corpulent. 



ZXrui OBSERVATIONS. 

Honey. 

Honey is^nourishing and wholesome, particularlj for persona 
with coughs, weak lungs, and short breath. It is balsamic^ 
cleansing, and makes the body soluble. 

Great care should be taken to get it fresh and pure; it is apt 
to turn sour by long keeping. 

Sugar. 

Sugar used in moderation is nourishing and good, hut much 
of it destroys the appetite, and injures the digestion. Moist 
sugar is the sweetest, and most opening; refined sugar, of a bind- 
ing nature. The preparations made of sugar, such as barley- 
sugar, sugar-candy, &c. are all indigestible and bad, as the good 
properties of the sugar are destroyed by the process it undergoes 
in the making them. They are particularly injurious to children, 
from cloying their delicate stomachs. Voung children are in 
general better without sugar, as it is very apt to turn acid and 
disagree with weak stomachs; and the kind of food they take 
iias natural sweetness enough in it not at all to require it. 

Salt. 

Salt, moderately used, especially with flesh, fish, butter, and 
cheese, is very beneficial, as it naturally stimulates weak or dis- 
ordered stomachs, and checks fermentations. But if it be im- 
moderately used it has a contrary eiiect. ^Very little salt should 
be used with vegetable food of the groin or seed kind; for the 
less salt that is put to it the milder, cooler, pleasanter, and easier 
of digestion it will be. Salt excites the appetite, assists the 
stomach in digesting crude phlegmatic aubstanoes, is cleansing, 
and prevents putrefaction; but if too much used^ it heats and dries 
the blood and natural moisture. It is best for phlegmatic, cold, 
and moist stomachs ; and most injurious to hot, lean bodies. 

Salt-petre is particularly bad for bilious ^raoas. 

Vinegar. 

Vinegar is cooking, opening, excites the appetite, assists diges- 
tion, is good for hot stomachs, resists putrefaction, and there- 
fore very good against pestilential diseases. Too muoh use of it 
injures the nerves, emaciates some constitutions, is hurtful to the 
breast, and makes people look old and withered, with pale lips. ' 

The best vinegar is that which is made of the best wines. 
Lemon-juice and verjuice have much the same qualities and ef- 
fects as vinegar. 

The commonest vinegar is least adulterated. 

Mmtard. 

Mustard quickens the appetite, warms the stomach, assbts in 
digeirting hard meats, and dries up surperfluous moisture. It a^ 
dom agrees with weak stomachs. 



! 



0BSE11VATI0N8. Xlfal 

Spices. 

Cajenne pepper, black pepper, and ginger, may be esteemed 
the best of spices. 

Nutmegs, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and allspice, are generally 
productive of indigestion and headache to weak persons. 

Garlic, Sfc, 

Garlic, onions, rocambole, shallots, leeks, and horse-radish, 
are occasionally good for strong stomachs, but generally disa- 
gree with weak stomachs. 



Tea. 

1 The frequent drinking of a quantity of strong tea, as is the 

1 general practice, relies and weakens the tone of the stomach, 
whence proceeds nausea and indigestion, with a weakness of the 
nerves, and flabbiness of the iSesh, and very oAen a pale wan 

« complexion. Milk, when mixed with it in some quantity, lessens 
its bad qualities, by rendering it softer, and nutritious; and, with 
a moderate quantity of sugar, it may then be a proper breakfast, 

^ as a diluent, to those who are strong, and live freely, in order to 
cleanse the alimentary passages, and wash off the salts from the 
kidneys and bladder. But persons of weak nerves ought to ab- 

, stain from it as carefully as from drams and cordial drops; as it 
causes the same kiad of irritation on the tender delicate fibres of 
the stomach, which ends in lowness, trembling and vapors. 

It should never be drank hot by any body. Green tea is less 
wholesome than black or bohea. 

Coffee. 

Coflee affords very little nourishment, and is apt to occasion 
heat, dryness, stimulation and tremors of the nerves, and for 
these reasons is thought to occasion palsies, watchfulness, and 
leanness. Hence it is very plain that it must be pernicious to hot, 
dry, and bilious constitutions. If moderately used it may be 
'beneficial to phlegmatic persons, but, if drank very strong, or in 
great quantities, it will prove injurious even to them. 

The following remarks on Coffee, were published in London, 
by a physician. 1st. The raw coffee should be round and small 
grained, free from dirt and of a light color. It should have no 
appearance of mouldiness, and be kept quite free from any strong 
smell. It should not be long kept in sacks with other provisions, 
as there is no substance more apt to obtain strong and disagree- 
able odors from the presence of its neighbors. Kum injures it; 
and Miller even goes so far as to state that a few bags of pepper 
on board a ship from India upon one occasion spoiled the whole 
cargo. 

C2 



USX OBSfiUVATlQNS. 

2nd. AVhen the grains are large, flat, and of a green color^ 
they should be kept on hand, in a dry situation, a long time before 
tifle. Every West India planter knows this fact, although his 
interest oflen induces him to send the article to market before iJt 
is old and dry enough. 

3d. Roasting cofiee is by far the most difficult operation of the 
housekeeper; when carried far enough, an aromatic oil is formed 
by the heat and forces itself/ out upon the surface of the grains, 
giving them a glossy appearance, and an odor whipb is consider- 
ed their perfection; yet too little roasting prevents the aroncua 
from appearing, and too much completely volatilizes it, leaving 
nothing but a flat bitter taste. The heat should be strong and 
the operation shortened as much as possible without burning the 
grains. The roaster should be close or well covered all the time, 
and in order to improve the looks and flavor, a small piece of 
butter may be added to the coffee, while parching. 

4th. TVnen thus prepared, coffee may be preserved for use ia 
large quantities, without losing much of its freshness, provided 
the vessels containing it be well covered. 

5th. An infusion of coffee is better than a decoction, simpljr 
because the heat, in the last case, being stronger and more last- 
ing, drives off more of the aromatic oil. It is better, therefore, 
to grind the coffee very fine, and then to expose it, by means of 
a bag or strainer, to the action of boiling water, than to boil it 
any length of time. Heat, though unavoidable, injures the flavor, 
and the best coffee I remember to have tasted was made by ex- 
posing the powder to a pressure of cold water ; a tea-spoonful of 
this extract, thrown into a cup of hot water, was sufiicient. It is 
not a bad method to alloi\ the ground coffee to lie in cold water 
between meals, and then prepare it by adding hot water. Just in 
proportion to the continuance of heat, in this and in the last 
operation, the fragrance disappears, and is replaced -by a strong 
bitter taste, which, according to the experiments of Chenevix, de- 
pends upon the presence of tannin (resembling that in tan bark). 
Roasting, besides forming this bitter substance, deprives the cof- 
fee of its nutritious qualities. 

Chocolate, 

Is rich, nutritious, and soothing, saponaceous, and cleansing; 
from which quality it oflen helps digestion, and excites the appe- 
tite. It is only proper for some of the leaner and stronger sort of 
phlegmatic constitutions, and some old people who are healthy, 
and accustomed to bodily exercise. 

Cocoa, 

Is of the same nature as chocolate, but not so rich; and there- 
fore lighter upon the stomach. 



OBStHTATIONB. ml 

Frmt. 

Fniils are of diflereot degrees ofd ig ee U M ifcj r. Thoee ef m kiri 
te i rta re, as some kinds ef apples, msloas, apnooCs, several serfs 
of fle^7 phmifl, and all wmatare fimts, are diffievk ef dtfesliea. 

Strawberries, raspberries, earraDls, gsoss b er r ies, eherries, 
green-giiges, peacnes, neccames, meiYn^ pears, mtteernes, ngs, 
grapes, medlars, when all quite ripe, are more easily dissolTed in 
the stomach. 

Fruit, moderatolf eaten, is wholesome, particularly as correct- 
ing the grossness of animal food. But an excess of it, and es- 
pecial] j of unripe fruit, is productive ef many diseases; amongst 
children in particular, it onen occasions suck ^ tke nettle rash 
and St. Anthony's fire. 

Fruit invaridblf disagrees with billons persons; bi|t is a sover- 
eign remedy for Ibe sea scurvy, and for diseases arising from an 
excess of animal food. 

Most kinds ef auts, and almonds, from their Qiilky er oily na- 
ture, contaia a good deal of nourishment; but they require to be 
well chewed, as they are difficult of digestion. Persons with 
weak stomach should not est them. The worst time at which 
- they can be eaten is after a meal. 

Olives Ihat have been gathered immature or unripe, and put into 
a pickle to keep them sound, are apt, especially if frequently eatbu, 
to obstruct the stomach and passages. The best way of eating 
them is with good bread, when the stomach is properly empty To 
eat them i^mni a fiUl stomach is yery bad. 



NOTE. 

Receipts for making ajl kinds of Bread, BiscuitSi Blancmange, 
Buns, Broth, Cakes, Creams, Costards, Jams, Jellies, Paste, Pies, 
Puddings, Soups, Sauces, ^c, will be found under ^ese general 
heads ; the mediod of oosdqng the several a^e^ts aia juranged under 
the name of each meat Still there are inte£epBJ»ed throughout the 
book single receipts under the letter of the name, of which many of 
the above articles are composed. We will instance the following, 
viz: — 

Cakes, — ^Almond, Cbiunpets, Echaudes, Fanchonottes, FlesNsh wa* 
fers, Frangipane, Gateau, Gingerbread, Hedgehog, Junible% 
IKinBes, Lemon Bonhens, Macaroons, Madel^ins, Xeat, iluf- 
fins, Oat, Orange, Peslingo, Sally Lunns. 
Bread, — ^Almond, Brratfocd, fllbeKt, French Rolls, Rnsks. 
Creams<-««lbi#r «Biioas toils of nvhich they are mads. 
Veal, — Friar's chicken, Gnsfia, and many articles under 4]^f. 
Fowls, — See also Chickens^ Capons. 
Beef, — See also Ox. 



The fallowmg Engranng represents the method of dividing on Ox 
Sat the table, in England, ^d in most of the southern eitiea of thff 
United States. The method in Boston varies considerably, dividing- 
into smaller jtieces, and this plan we pursue m the following tables ; 
but the manner of cooking each is nearly the same. 



1. Sirloin; 

2. Rump. 

8. Edge Bone. 

4. Buttock. 

6. Mouse Buttock. 

6. Veitiy Hece. 

7. Thick Plank. 

8. Thin Flank. 

9. Ug. 



10. Fore rib : Five ribs. 

11. Middle rib: Four ribs. 

12. Chuck: Three ribs. 

13. Shoulder or leg-of-matton pi©e«. 

14. Brisket. 

15. Clod. 

16. Neck, or Stioking Piecv. 

17. Shin. 

18. Cheek. 



MARKETING TABLES. 



BEEF. 



THE HIND QUARTER. 



.Rump 
Edge Bone 

Round 

Veiny Piece 
Thick Flank 
Thin Flank 
Leg Ran 
Leg 



nfe6 p0vlv* 

10 to 12 cenff 

10 to 13 

$toB 



99 
99 



8 to 10 

6 to 8 

6«o8 

6 

4 



99 
99 

I* 
99 
99 



Roasted. 

Roasted, or Bteak, or Btew. 

Boiled. 

Alamode, Boiled, or sa?wy ■■te- 
ed Beef. 

Steaks or Roast ; or baked or adletf 
Steaks, or corned. 

do. 
Boil ; Soup, or Stew. 
Soup or Stew. 



{ 



THE FORE QUARTER. 



Out, 2 Ribs 10 cenU 

Second Cut, 2 Ribs 10 « 
Third Cut, 2 Ribs 8 « 

Fourth Cut, 2 Ribs 6 „ 

Chuck Rib 6 

ShoiiMer of Mutton Piece S 
Shoulder Clod 8 



99 



Brisket 

Rattleran 
Sticking Pisoe 
Neck 

Shin 

Head (20 etnls) 

Tail (2 cml$) 

Heels, gfvew with the head 



« 99 

« H 

2 99 

2 « 



1 



Roast 

do. 

da 

do. 
Boil or Stew, or for makiBf gnefj 
Steaks or BouillL 
Boil or Soup, or Beef 

Boil, or Bouilli ; or 
Harricol, or Salttd. 
BoiL 
Boil, or Soup. 
Gravy. 

{Soup; excellent Scotoh barisf 
Broth, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Soup, Stewed. 
Boiled, Jelly, Soup. 



MUTTON. 



Leg 
Loin 



8 to 10 eeiUt 
6 to 8 



Rack, neck end 5 to 6 



99 



99 



Rack, best end 
Shotdder 
Bseast 
Head 



99 



6 to 8 

^ n 

4 99 

TJ|9 Cluiie fir the Sad^e, two 
fiQins. The Haunch is a 
Leg and part of the Loin, 



{ 



} 



Boil, Roast. 
Chops — ^Roast, Boil, 

Boil, Roast, Irish Stew, Sairicoi| 
Stewed, Broth. 
Chops, or Broth. 
Roast* 

Brothr-^^rilUd. 
Broth. 

Roasted* VenisonjfW 



HARKETINO. 



VEAL. 



Loin 
Leg 

Fillet 



8 to 10 cents 



9j 



»> 



Knuckle, or whole Leg 8 

Breast 8 to 10 

Breast and Neck 6 

Rack 6 

Shoulder 6 

Brisket 8 

Cutlets 10 



{ 



n 
n 
n 
n 
yi 
n 



Roast. 

Cutlets, Roast, Boil. 

Roasted, Veal Olives, Hcoteb 
Collops. 
Broth, Ragout, Stew, Soup. 
Roast, 

Roast, Stew, Ragout,' Curry- 
Soup— Chops to fry. 
Roast, or Bake. 
Stewed, Ragout. 
Fried, Broiled. 



Head, scalded, (50 to 60 cts. ecich) Broiled plain. Hash. 

Beef is plentiest and cheapest from October to January ; and htsM 
from January to May, 

Veal m best from Jlpril to July. 

Mutton is best from October to June,, 

Grass Lamb is best from June to October, 

The Quality of Butcher Meat varies -quit€ as much as the price of H 
— according to iis age — how it has been fed — and espedaUy how it has 
been treated the week before it has been kilted. 





PORK. 






Comes into Market, 


Plentiest. 


Roasting Pigs 


May 


June. 


Quarter Pork 


July 


August. 


Spare Ribs and Chine 


Aug. 


Nov. «S& Dec, 


Middlings 


salt, all the year. 




Bacon Hams 


November, and continue all the year* 




POULTKV. 






CowM into Market. 


Plentiest,. 


Chickens 


July 


Not. 


Fowls 


All the year 


do. 


Ducks 


July 


October* 


Geese 


August 


Nov. 


Turkeys 


September 


Nov. & Dec* 


Wild Ducks 


do* 


Oct. & Apr* 


Brants 


April 


May. 


Partridges 


September 


October. 


Quails 


do. 


January* 


Woodcocks 


July 


August 



O69.— Poultry is in greatest perfectionj when in greatest plenty. 

The price of it varies as much as the size and quality of it, tmd the 
supply at nuxrket, and the demand for it. 

B is generally dearest from March to July, and cheapest cAotU Sep* 
iemhff', when the Game season commevices, and the weather being colder^ 
uUows of its being brought from m^re distant parts.. 



MARKETING. XXTT 

7%e above information toiU, tot tnut^ be very aee^piabU lo Eeonomi" 
coZ JTamUies, who, from hearing the very high price PouUry mnneHmes 
totts, are deterred from tver inquiring about it. In the cheap 9ea»an$ 
we have noted, it is sometimes as cheap as Butcher-meaL 

Those who pay the highest, do not always pay the dearest^ price. In 
fact, ihe Best Meat is the cheapesl ; and those who treat a tradesman 
UberaUy^ have a much better chance of being weU served, than those who 
are forever bargaining for the Market Penny, In dividing the Joints, 
there is always an opportunity of apportioning the Bones, Fat, Flaps, 
^e. so as to make up a variation of much more than a penny per pound 
in most pieces ; and a Buicher unit be happy to give the turn qfhis knife 
infofvor of that Customer who cheerfully pays the fair price of the arti' 
de he purchases ; have those who are unwilling to do so any reason to 
complain ? Have they not invited such conduct 

DIftiX;TIONS FOR CURING AND COOKING PICKLSD FISH.* 

The use of Pickled Fish, such as Mackerel, Salmon, Shad, &c. 
is becoming more general than formerly, and would be still more 
extensive if the proper mode of preparing them for the table was 
better understood. These fish constitute not only a salutary diet, 
but in many cases makes a very beneficial change in our food. 

Whoever will give the following directions a fair trial will be- 
come sensible of their value: — 

First. The fish should be kept covered by the pickle by means 
of a flat stone or slate, laid on them. The oil, or animal fat, 
which floats on the top of the cask, should not be removed, as it 
prevents the fish from rusting; but in taking the fish from the 
barrel or keg, this oil ought to be put aside, care being taken not 
to let the fish touch it. Secondly — The fish should be washed 
clean, then put to soak in a large quantity of water for eight or 
ten hours, with the flesh side down. The time of soaking may be 
varied to suit the palate. It must again be washed clean, put it 
to soak six or eight hours in milk, (if you have it) then dry it by 
the fire. Thirdly — When dry lay it on the gridiron, with the flesh 
side do%vnward, over pretty lively coals, for five minutes, or till it 
is moderately browned, then turn it with a plate, or some flat in- 
strument that will not break the skin, and let it remain over the 
coals ten or fideen minutes, or till it is cooked sufliciently. Slide 
it off the gridiron into the dish, and strip ofl* the backbone with a 
broad knife: pat the fish, to cause the thick part of the fish to 
absorb the fat from the belly pTirt ; use no butter — ^then you will 
enjoy all the flavor and juices of the fish. 

If a Mackerel or Shad so prepared does not relish, it must be 
more the fault of the palate, than of the food. How many arti- 
cles, capable of being made into excellent dishes, are lost or 
spoiled from want of care and skill in dressing them. 

* As the whole beauty of pickled Fish depends upon the right method of cooking it, we 
Insert by itself the receipt of Capt. Henry Purkitt, Massachusetts Inspector of F'wBfT who 
obligingly handed it to the Editor. 



TAQLE 



or 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



By which persons not having scales and weights at hand may 
readily measure the articles wanted to form any receipt, without 
the trouble of weighing. Allowance to be made for any ex- 
traordinary dryness or moisture of the article weighed or mcas* 
nred. 



V^EIGHT AND MEASURE. 



Eggs . - - 

Brown sugar 
White pugar, powdered 
Loaf-sugar, broken 
Butter — ^when soft - 
Indian meal 
Wheat flour 



ten eggs are 

one pound, two ounces, is 

one pound, one ounce, is 

one pound is - - 

one pound is - 

one pound, two ounces, is 

one pound is • - 



one pound 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart, 
one quart. 



LIQUIDS. 



Four large table-spoonfuls are 
Eight large table-spoonfuls are 
Sixteen large table-spoonfuls are 



half a gill, 
one gill, 
half a pint. 



A common-nzed wine-glass 
A common-sized tumbler holds 



halfagUl. 
half a pint 



THR ART OP CARVING; 

WITH Hnrrs on 

THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER TABLE. 



Without a perfect knowledge of the art of Garring, it is impotsibie to perform tlM 
lumors of the table with propriety ; and nothing can he more disagreeable to one of a 
sensitive disposition, than to behold a person, at the head of a well-famished board, 
hacking the nnest joints, and giving them the appearance of having been gnawed by 
dogs. 

It also merits attention in an economical point of view— a bad carver will mangle 
joints so as not to be able to fill half a dozen plates from a sirloin of beef, or a lar|(e 
tongae ; which, besides creating a great difference in the daily consumption in fami* 
lies, often occasions disgust in tfelicate persons, causing them to loathe tne provisions, 
iMiweTer good, which are set before them, if helped in a clumsy manner. 

I cannot, therefore, too strongly uige tne study of this useful branch of doroestie 
economyr; and I doubt not that whoever pays due attention to the following instruc- 
tions, will, after a little practice, without which all precept is unavailing, speedily 
acquire the reputation of^being a good carver. 

1 have prefixed a few Hints on the Etiquette of the Dinner Table, which I trust 
will be found useful. In that, however, much must be left to a quick and observant 
eye, and a determination to render yourself as agreeable as possible. 



fflNTS ON THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINNER 

TABLE. 

AS HOST. 

Trb important day on which you feast your friends being arrived, you will be duly 
prepared to receive the first detachment. It were almost needless to observe that 
the brief interval before dinner is announced may be easily filled up by the common- 
place inquiries after health, and observations on the weather; as the company 
mcreases, provided they were previously acquainted, you will find your labors in 
keeping up the conversation very agreeably diminished. 

While your guests are awaiting the announcement of dinner, it will be expedient 
that you snould intimate to the sentiemen of the party^ as unobtrusively as possible, 
which lady you wish each to take in charge, that, when the moment arrives for your 
adjournment to the dining-room, there may not be half a dozen claimants for the 
honor of escorting la pitta belle of the party, while some plain demoiselle is under the 
painful necessity of escorting herself. Such a scene as this should be carefully pro- 
vided against b^r the mode above suggested. 

When dinner is announced, you wiU rise and request jour friends to proceed to the 
dining-room, yourself leading the way, in company with your most distinguished 
female visitor, followed immediately by the hostess, accompanied by the gentleman 
who has the best claim to such an honor. The remainder of the guests then follow, 
each gentleman accompanied by the lady previously pointed out to him. 

D 



XXXYiii CARVING. 



Arrived at the dining-room, you will ret^uest the lady whom you conducted to take 
her seat on your ri^ht hand j then, standing behind your chair, you will direct all 
your visitors to their respective seats. 

Having taken your seat, you will now disi)atch soup to each of your guests, from the 
pile of plates placed on your ri^ht hand, without questioning any whether you shall 
nelp them or not ; but, dealing it out silentlv, you will first help the person at your 
right hand, then at your left, and so throughout the table. 

Of course, you will carve the meats yourself, or why did you buy this book ? 
surelv, not with the intention of teaching your servants how to perform that impor- 
tant auty. You will not ask to be allowea to hejbp your guests, but supply a plate in 
silence^ and hand it to your servants, who will oner it to such of the company as are 
unprovided. Never offer soup or fisn a second time. 

if a dish be on the table, some parts of which arc preferred to others, according to 
the taste of individuals, all should have the opportunity of choice. You will simply 
ask each one if he has any preference for a particular part ; if he replies in the nega- 
tive, you are not to repeat tne question, nor msist that he must have a preference. 

Do not attempt to eulogize your dishes, or apologize that you cannot recommend 
them, — this is extreme bad taste; as also is the vaunting of the excellence of your 
wines, &.C., &c. 

Do not insist upon your guests partaking of particular dishes. Do not ask persons 
more than ouce, and never force a supply upon their plates. It is ill-bred, though 
common, to press any one to eat ; and, moreover, it is a great annoyance to be 
crammed like turkeys. 

Neither send away your plate, nor relinquish your knife and fork, till your guests 
have £nished. 

Soup being removed, the gentleman who supjports the lady of the house on her 
right should request the honor of taking wine with her ; this movement will be the 
signal for the rest. Should he neglect to do this, you must challenge some ladv. 

Until the cloth be removed, you must not drink wine except with another. If you 
are asked to take wine, it is a breach of etiquette to refuse. In performing this 
ceremony (which is very agreeable if the wine be ^ood) you catch the person's eye, 
and bow politely. It is not necessary to say anything. 

If you have children, never introduce them aiter dinner, unless particularly asked 
for, and then avoid it if possible. 

Never make any observations to your servants at dinner, other than to request 
them to provide you with what you require, or to take away that which may be 
removed. 

With the dessert, you will have a small plate, two wine-glasses, and dcyleys^ 
placed before each guest. If fresh fruit be on the table, as pears, apples, nectarines, 
&c., a knife with a silver or silver-plated blade should be placed by the side of each 
plate; a steel blade, in addition to being discolored by the juices, imparts an 
unpleasant flavor to the fruit. 

AS GUEST. 

To dine out, it is usually understood that you must be invited ; there are, however, 
some gentlemen! who have attained to that high degree of refinement which enables 
them to dispense with such a stupid ceremony. They drop in as dinner is being 
served up, when it is impossible that the party on whom they intrude can do other 
than request them to stay and dine, though we suspect he has a much stronger indi- 
nation to kick the unwelcome guest into the street. 

We would recommend you to eschew such practices ; but when invited, return an 
answer in plain terms, accepting or declining. If you accept, be there at the time 
appointed. It is inconvenient, on many accounts, to yourself and to your friends, 
either to be too late or too early. 

You will probably have to wait a little time before dinner is announced. During 
this short period, render yourself as agreeable as possible to the assembled company. 

Your host will doub|less point out to you the lady he wishes you to escort to the 
dining-room. You will be in readiness to attend upon her the moment you are 
summoned to adjourn. Offer her your right arm, and follow in order. Should you 
have to pass down stairs, you will give the lady the wall. You will take your seat 
at the table on the right hand of the lady you conducted. 

Beinff seated, soup will be handed round. When offered, take it ; but if you 
prefer nsh, pass it on to your neighbor. You must not ask for soup or fish a second 
time ; it will not be offered — you would not be so rude or selfish as to keep the com- 
pany waiting for the second course, that you may have the pleasure of demolishing 
a double portion of fish. 



CABVIR6. 

Fish must be eatsn with a silver fork, ae the add in the sanee, acting on the iteel 
of an ordinary fork, gives an nnpleasant flavor to the dish. For this reason, also, a 
knife should not be used in eating fish. 

If asked whether 700 have a neference for any dish, or any particolar part of a 
dish, answer plainly and distinctly as yon wish. 

Pay as mucn attention to your oompaaion on yoor left as politeness requires, but 
do not be unnecessarily officious. People do not like to be stared at wben eating. 

When yon are helped to anytlung. do not wait until the rest of the company are 
provided. This is very common in the country, but shows a want of good breeding. 

Do not allow your plate to be overloaded witn a multifarious assortment of vege- 
tables, but rather ccmfine yourself to one kind. When you take another sort of 
meat, or a dish not properly a vegetable, yon must chanve your plate. 

If yon hare the honor or sitting on the riffht hand of the hostess, you will, imme- 
diately on the removal of soup, request the honor of taking wine with her. 

Finally, to do all these things well, and to be aufaU at a dimier party, be perfectly 
at your ease. To be at ease is a great step tovraids eigoying your own dinner, and 
making yourself agreeable to the company. FVncy yourself at home ; performing 
all the ceremonies without any apparent effort. For the rest, observation and vour 
own judgment will be the best guide, and render you perfect in the etiquette or the 
dinner table. 



THE ART OF CARVING. 

In Carving, your knife should not be too heavy, but of a sufficient size, and keen 
edge. In usmg it, no great personal strength is required, as constant practice will 
render it an easy task to carve the most dimcnlt articles ; more depending 00 address 
thanfiMve. 

The dish shoold be suflSdently near to enable the carver to reach it without rising, 
and the seat should be elevated so as to give command over the joint. 

Show no partialitv in serving, but let each person at table have a share of snch 
articles as are considered best, for however you conciliate the one you &vor, you 
must bear inrmind that yon make enemies of the other guests. 

SECTION I. 

risH 

requires very little carving ; it should be carefully helped with a fish-slice, which not 
being sharp, prevents the flakes from being broken, and in Salmon and Cod these are 
large and add much to their beauty. A portion of the roe, milt, or liver,, should be 
given to eadi person. 




SALMON 



is rarely sent to the table whole, but a piece cut from the middle of a large fish, which 
is the best flavored pert of it. Make an incision along the back, 1-2, and another 
from 5 to 6 ; then divide the side about the middle, in the line 3-4 ; cut the thickest 
part, between 1-3, 2-4, for the lean, the remainder for the fat ; ask which is preferred, 
and help as the fancy of your guests may demand. When the fish is very thick, do 
not venture too near the bone, as there it has an ill flavor and is discolored. 

in payins your respects to a whole Salmon, you will flnd the choice parts next the 
head, the thin part next ; the tail is considered less savory. 



in belmng, Gnt cut off ibe hmd, M 1, w that put ii t^ ii^erioi ud aoMTory, 
tlien dinde dawn dis Iwck, and Riie > ude to <«cb ; if lew is ukad fer, tbe thikkeM 



Intradoce the Mi->lice flt l,aadciitqnite tliroagli the back, as ftr bi S, Aen brib 
ncen And between 3 end i, aiwl with each shce grn a ponioD of iIh •mwI, which 
lilies the nnder lidB of tbe bedi baae. It ii i^in,sBdofada^rcaloithaatMatb« 
pan irftbe fiih,aDd ia ealeemed a delicacy. 

8oiDe penma -an partial to the tix^pie and palBle, tor wkidi jso 
apoon into the niaiith. Tbe jelly put iaBbantUu jaw, thaSimlJUt'* 



olhci delicate pickiiigB ; the finest portiom may he finmd about 




le fork, while you sepanle a portion with the fish-slice ; this part is man 
mill is prefemdby some, tbouih it is less delicate than the nnder side. 11m 
re esteeoied o nicety, and should be alleaded to accordingly. 



and Jlai fi(h in general, may be aened in the bi 



CASTINO. 



lU 



SECTION IL 



jonrn. 

In helping the more fleshy joints, such as a Sirloin of Beef, Leff of Mutton, FiUtt 
of Veal, cut thin smooth slices, and let the knife pass through to the bones of Mutton 
and Beef. 

It would prerent much trouble, if the joints of the loin, neck, and breast, were cot 
throiigh by the butcher previous to the cooking, so that when sent to table they may 
easily be seTered. Sttioiild the whole of the meat belonging to each bone be too thick, 
one or more slices may be taken off* from between every two bones. 

In some boiled ioints, round and aitch-bone of beef for instance, the water renders 
the outsides vapid, and of course unfit to be eaten ; you will therefore be particular to 
cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the top, before you begin to serve. 




SHOULDER OF MUTTOK. 



Cut m to the bone at the line 1, and help thin slices of lean from each side of the 
incision ; the prime part of the fat lies at the outer edge, at 2. 

Should more meat be required than can be got from that part, cut on either side of 
the line 3, which repesents the blade bone, and some ^ood and delicate slices may be 
procured. By cuttmg horizontally from the under side, many " nice bits " will be 
obtained. 




LBO OF MUTTON. 

The finest part is situated in the centre, at 1 , between the knuckle and farther end | 
insert the knife there, and cut thin, deep slices each way, as far in as 2. The out- 
side rarely being very fat, some neat cuts may be obtained oft the broad end, at 3. 
The knuckle of a fine leg^is tender, though dry, and many prefer it, although the 
other is the most juicy. There are some good cuts on the broad end of the back of 
the leg, from which slices v^j be procured lengthways. 

The cramp bone is by some esteemed a delicacy ; to set it out, cut down to tha 
thighbone, at 4, and pass the knife under it in a semicircular course, to 6. 



HAUNCH OF MUTTON 



consists of the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble a Haunch of Venison. 
It must be helped at table in a similar manner. 

- D* 



idii 



CAKVIMO. 



SADDLE OF MUTTON. 



This is an excellent joint, and produces many nice bits. Cut the whole length of 
it dose to the back bone, and take off some long thin slices in that direction. The 
upper division consists of lean ; the fat may be easily got at by cutting from the left 
side. 



LOIM OF MUTTON. 



As the bones of this joint are divided, it is very easily managed. Begin at the nar- 
row end and take off the chops ; when the joints are cut through, some slices of meat 
may be obtained between the bones. 




POBE QUARTER OF LAMB. 

^irst divide the shoulder from the scoven, which consists of the breast and ribs^ 
by passing the knife under the knuckle, in the direction of 1, 2, 3, and cutting so as 
to leave a fair portion of meat on the ribs ; lay it on a separate dish, and squeeze the 
juice of half a Seville orange over the other part, which, after being sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, should be divided in the line 3-4. This will separate the ribs from 
the ffristly part, and you may help from either, its may be chosen, cutting as directed 
by the lines 6, 6. 

SHOULDER OF LAMB 

must be carved like a shoulder of mutton, of which it is a miniature edition. 

LEO OP LAMB. 

Follow the directions given for leg of mutton, at page xU. 

LOIN OP LAMB 

may be helped similar to a loin.of mutton. ^See loin of mutton.) This, and the 
two foregoing, being small ioints, should be nelped sparingly, as there is very little 
meat on them, especially when first in season. 




aitch-bone of beef. 



Cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the entire surface, as marked 1-2, then help. 
There are two sorts of fat to this joint, and, as tastes differ, it is necessary to learn 
which is preferred. The solid fat will be found at 3. and must be cut horizontally ; 
the softer, which resembles marrow, at the back of the bone, below 4. 

A silver skewer should be substituted for the one which keeps the meat properly 
together while boiling, and it may be withdrawn when you cut down to it. 



llMre an Iwo modes of helping IbU joint. Tbe belter wav ii bjr orriog long tblB 
(Ucee from 1 to 3 ; the ether waj; ie by culling it acroa*, which, bowcTer, (poui it. 
The moat tender and prime pul is in th " ^...-i' .. . — -.i i 

liHmd Knot delicate tat, psri of whicli ■) 



. of Ihe line 3 ; there will a 



toaj be caned aimilmT to Ihe Sirloin, alwaja oamnKucing al tbe thin end of Iba jnint, 
ukd cntting long slices bo as to give lal and lean together. 



I joint 19 so my easy lo attend to, thnt we bsTe not deemed It DacesaarT to 
drawing of it; it on'ly requires a iteady hand aud a aharp knife. The upper 
B being remoted, as directed for the ailch-bone of beef, earre thin alica, and 

a* posaible, aa it it of conacquence la prea ar r e the 



gire a portion of fat with 

Yoa must cut tbe meat 

beautf of its appeanuuN. 





Cot thin alicM fiom 1 lo a, and lei Ihe knife penetrate to Ihe bone. At the thick 
part of the neck end, 3, the throat sweetbread is silaated ; carve slices Irom 3 lo 4, 
and help with the other part. Should the eye be asked Tor, it mast be extracted with 
the point of the knife, and a portion giTen. The palate, esteemed a delicacy, is silu- 
ated nnder the head, and some-Sne lean may ba Ibaad by lemoring Ibe jaw-bone; 
porlioDB of each of Ikese should be helped round. 



■hoold be jointed prenoaa to being 
cut tbiougn with a Imire. The fat 
be giTen with ihe other parts. 



nt (0 table, when each diiisioo may be eaaitp 
lonads the kidney, sad portioiu of nch ahotilcl 



liiide esch portioa into ct 



ia of iemoD are nlwa^ya served with this dish. 



Cut tbio slices from this delicBte joiot, either across near the linucble, oi from (ha 
blade bone, as directed for a shoulder of mutton. Tbis forms. a nice dish for a tete- 
a-lele drnueri Iheie is not sufficieat for a third person 



ivided, it must be i 



braias taken out, and 



n of Mutton. See pac^ lU. 



ourraw. 



dv 




LBO OF POBK. 



Gommeiice caunring abont midway, between the konckle and Curthar end, and eiit 
^koBL'dbtsp ^Hon from either aide ofthe line 1. For the aeaaoning in a roaat leg, lift 
It upyWl it win beiooad nnder the akin at the large end. 




Tlie usual mode of earring thia j<»iBt. is by V>ng deHeate slices, through the thick 
fiit, in the direction 1-2, Is^mg open the bone at each cut, which brings you to the 
prime part at once. A more saying way is to oemmenoe at the knuckle and proceed 
onwards. 

Some persons take out a round piece at 3, and enlarge the hole, by cutting thin 
circular slices with a sharp knife. This keeps the meat moist, and preserres the 
grayy, but seldom looks handsome. 



-SECTION m. 

Fovi^rmv, OAiin, nro. 

The carving-knife for poultry is smaller and lighter than the meat carver; the 
paint is moce peaked and the handle longer. 

In cutting up a Turkey, Goose, Duck, or Wild Fowl, more prime pieces may be 
obtained by carving slices from pinion to pinion, without making wings ; this is an 
advantage when your party is large, as it makes the bird go fejrther. 




A FOWL. 



It n^l be vunt convenient in carving this to take it on your plate, and lay the 
Joints, as divided, neatly on the dish, fix your fork in the middle of the breast, and 
take^the wing off in the direction of 1-2 ; divide the joint at 1, lift up the pinion with 
your fork, and draw the wing to^rajrds the leg, which will separate the fleshy part 
more naturally than by the Imife; cut between the leg and bcxiy at 8 to the bone, 2, 



xlri CASYINO. 

give the blade a sudden tnni, and the joint will break if the fowl is not old. When 
a similar ooeration is performed on the other side, take off the merrythought, by cut- 
ting in to the bone at 4, and turning it back, which will detach it; next remoTe the 
neck bones and divide the breast from the back, by cutting through the whole of the 
ribs, close to the breast. Turn up the back, press the point of the knife about half 
way between the neck and rump, and on raismg the lower end it will separate easily. 
Turn the rump from you, take off the sidesmen, and the operation is complete. 

The breast and wings are the most delicate parts, but the leg is more juicy in a 
young bird. Great care should be taken to cut the wings as handsome as possible. 

A TUKKBT. 

The finest parts of this bird are the breast and wings ; the latter will bear some 
delicate slices being taken off. After the fore quarters are seyered, the thighs must 
be divided from the drumsticks, which, bein^ tough, should be reserved till last. 
In other respects, a turkey must be dealt with exactly as recommended for a fowl, 
except that it has no merrythought. 

Give a portion of the stuffing or forced-meat, which is inside the breast, to each 
person. 

A PABTRIDOB 

is cut up in the same manner as a fowl, only, on account of the «rt«llnAf« of the bird, 
the merrythought is seldom divided from the breast. The wings, breast, and merry- 
thought, are the finest parts of it, but the wing is considered the best, and the tip of 
it is reckoned the most delicious morsel of the whole. 




A PHEASANT. 

Fix your fork in the centre of the breast, and make incisions to the bone at 1-2, 
then take off the leg in the line 3^, and the wing at 3-6 ; serve the other side in the 
same manner, and separate the slices you had previously divided on the breast. In 
taking off the wings, be careful not to venture too near the neck, or you will hit on 
the neck bone, from which the wing should be divided. Pass the kmfe through the 
line 6, and under the merrythought towards the neck, which will detach it. The 
other parts may be served as directed for a fowl. 

The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most delicate parts, although the 
leg has a higher flavor. 

WOODCOCKS, GBOUSE, ETC. 

are carved similar to a fowl, if not too small, when they may be cut in quarters and 
helped. 
Snipes, being smaller, should be divided in halves. 




PI0B01T8. 



The usual way of carving these birds is to insert the knife at 1, and cut to 2 and 3, 
when each portion may be divided into two pieces and helped ; sometimes they are 
cut in halves, either across or down the middle, but as the lower part is thought Uie 
best, the first mode is the fairest. / 

Should they be very large and fine, they may be served like fowls. 



CABTINO. 



zlru 




A eooflB. 

Take off the wing by putting the fork into the small end of the pinion tnd prem 
it dose to the body ; diriae the joint at 1 with the knife, carrying it alon{f aa iar as 9. 
RemoTo the leg oy catting in the direction of 2-3, and diyide the thigh from the 
dmmstick ; then sever the limbs on the other side, and cot some long slices from 
esch side of the breast, between the lines a and 5. 

To get at the stuffing, the apron must be removed, by cutting from 4 to 6 by 3. 
It is rarely necessary to cut up the whole of the goose, unless the company is lar^, 
but the merry thouent may be taken off: there are two side bones by the wing, which 
may be cat off, as likewise the back, and lower sidebooes. The best pieces are the 
brMSt and thighs. 

A DUCK. 

Remove the legs and wings as directed above for a goose, and cut some slices 
from each side of the breast. The seasoning will be (bund under the flap, as in the 
other bird. Should it be necessary, the merrythought, sidebones, &«., can be de- 
tached in the same manner as recommended for a fowl. 




HAUVCH or VEKISOK. 



First let out the gravy by cutting in to the bone across the joint at 1-2, then turn 
the broad end towards you, make as deep an incision as you can from 3 to 4, and 
help thin slices from each side. The greater part of the fat which is much esteemed, 
will be found on the left side, and those who carve must take care to proportion bo(h 
ii and the gravy to the number of the company. 




HABB. 



Insert the point of the knife inside the shoulder at 1, and divide all the way down 
to the rump, at 2 : do the same on the other side, and you will have the hare m three 
pieces. F'ass the knife under the rise of the shoulder, at 2-1, to take it off; the leg 
may be severed in a similar manner : then behead it — cut off the ears close to the 
roots, and divide the upper from the lower jaw. Next place the former flat on a 
plate, put the point of the knife into the forehead, and divide it through the centre 



dviS CABTOVG* 

down to the nose. Cut tbe back into convenient portions, lay the pieces neatltr on 
the dish, and proceed to serve the company, giving some stuffing (which will be 
found in the inside) and gravy to each person. 

The prime ports are the back and legs ; the ears are considered a luxury by some, 
as are the head and brains : they may oe distributed to those that like them. 

Should the hare not be very tender, it will be difficult to divide the sides from the 
back, but take off the lees by cutting through the joints, which you must endeavor 
to hit. You will then be able to cut a few slices from each side of the back. Next 
dissever the shoulders, which are called the sportsman's joints, and are preferred 
by many. The back, &c., may then be carved as directed above. 

RABBIT. 

The directions for cuttine up a hare will be amply sufficient to enable the carver to 
dispose of this animal. Tne oest part is the shoulders and back, which must be 
divided into three or four pieces, according to its size. The head should not be givea 
unless asked for. 



THB 



COOK'S OWN BOOK 



ALM 

ABERDEEN CRUIXA. iSetCakti,} 

ALAMODE BEEF. {See Betf.) 

ALAMODE VEAL. (See VeaL) 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (1) 
Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, lay 
tbem in cold water all ni|^t; the next omhii- 
ingUandi them in cold water; then take tfaem 
out amd dry them in a clean cloth, beat then 
very fine in a little orange flower water ; then 
take six e^gSS?^ lexve out four whites, with a 
little beaten mace; beat them well in a mar- 
ine mortar; take ten ounces of fresh butter, 
melt it, add a little grated lemon^peel, and 
put thera in the mortar with the other ingre- 
dients ; mix all well together and fill your 
patty-pans, having lined them with thin puff 
paste. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (2) 
Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, 
«nd a fisw bitter with a qxwnfiil of watei*; 
then add four ounces of su^r pounded, a 
i^KKMiful of cream, and the whites of two ezgs 
weU beaten; mix all as quick as possible; 
put into very small patty-pans, and bake in 
a pret^ warm oven twen^ minutes. 

ALMOND CHEESECAKES. (8) 
Blanch six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce 
of bitter almonds ; let them lie half an hour 
in a drjring stove, or before the fire ; pound 
thorn very fine in a mortar, with two table- 
spoonfiils of rose water, to prevent them firom 
oiling; set into a stew-pan half a pound of 
finesh butter; set it in a wann place, and 
cream it very smooth with the hand, and add 
it to the almonds, with six ounces of sifted 
k>af sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, some 
good cream, and four eggs ; rub all well to- 
gether with the pestle; covo* a patty^n 
with puff paste; fill in the mixture; orna- 
ment it widi slices of candied lemon-peel and 
ahnMids split, and bake it half an hour in a 
brisk oven. 

ALMOND CONSERVE, BURNT. 
Blanch and cut six ounces of sweet almonds 
into small strips, hiy than on paper and put 
thflm into aa oven; when tb^ are brown. 



ALM 

take them out, and throw them mto two 
pooMb of sugar boiled to petU eMse» stv 
the mixture well until it begins to blow> rod 
then pour it into ^pKpu cases or JBOulds. 

ALMONDS, ENGLISH FASHION. 

Mix almonds and filberts scakled in equal 
quantities; chop one half very fine, cut the 
rest each into two or three s&oes; pot the 
whole in double their weight of sugar, 
prepared bv boilinff it with some ]«noB- 
peJ rasped; stir Uie almonds very well 
m the sugar, taking it off the fire, and 
add one or two whites of egss; pour it in 
paper large enou(^ to contain Uie whole, and 
cut it in slices for use as you think {uroper, 
when baked as usuaL 

ALMOND FRAZE. Blanch a pound 
of Jordan almonds, and steep them in a pint 
of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of eggs ; 
take out the almonds and pound them fine in 
a marble mortar; then mix them again in 
tlie cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated 
bread, and stir them all together; then put 
some firedi butter into the pan, let it be not 
and pour it in, stirring it in the pan till they 
are of a sufficient consistence ; and when 
enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over 
it, and serve it up. 

' ALMOND FRITTERS. Blanch thrae 
quarters of a pound of sweet almonds, pour 
over them three tablenspoonfiils of rose water, 
and in a quarter of an hoiv a pint of cream ; 
let them stand two or three hours, then pound 
them in a mortar till they become quite a 
paste ; add the beaten yolks of six eggs, two 
or three pounded Naples biscuit; sweeten 
with pounded loaf sugar, and mix all well 
together ; melt a quarter of a pound of finesh 
butter in a fiyinff-pan, and when hot, pour in 
the mixture, and stir it constantly till thick, 
and of a light brown coior. Serve it with 
sifted loaf sugar over the top. 

ALMOND BROWN GINGER- 
BREAD. Beat a quarter of a pound of 
blanched almonds with thin gum-water, a 
few drops of lemon-juice, a little pdwdered 
cinnamon, a' d some ginger finely grated and 



ALM 



ANC 



■eared to eive it a brown color; sweeten 
and smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut 
it into squares; dry it in a stove or before 
the fire. 

ALMOND ICEING, for Bride Cake. 
"Hie whites of six e^a, a pound and a half 
of double-refiifed sugar, a pound of Jordan 
almonds blanched and pounded with a little 
rose water ; mix altogether and whisk it well 
for an hour or twp, kiy it over the cake and 
put it in the oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, BITTER. 
Take a poimd of bitter almonds, rub them 
_well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste 
with the whites of' three or four egg? ; then 
put them into an earthen pan with liuiee 
pounds of powder-sngar, mix them together 
well, and if the paste should be too dry, 
moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on 
dieets of paper in lumps about the size of a 
waJnot, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. 

ALMOND MACAROONS, SWEET, 

Are done in the same way. But two pounds 
of sugar are sufficient for a pocmd of almonds. 

ALMOND MILK SOUP. T^elialfa 
pound of sweet almonds, put them on the fire 
with some water until near boiling, then 
blanch and throw them into fi^sh water; 
drain and pound them. Boil a pint of wa- 
ter,^ littla susar, salt, cinnamon, coriander, 
and lemon^)eel, for a .quarter of an hour, and 
rub the almonds through a sieve to this. Lay 
some slices of toslsted bread in a dish, and 
pour the milk of almonds on it, as hot as 
possible without boiling. 

ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch two ounces 
of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with 
orange flower water, whisk the whites of 
three eggs to a high fit>di, strew in a little 
sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar 
and eggs, and add more sugar till as thick 
as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on 
paper in a cool oven. 

ALMOND RICE. Blanch sweet al- 
monds, and pound them in a marble mortar; 
mix them in a little boiling water; press 
them as long as there is milk in the almonds, 
adding finesh water every time; to eveiy 
quart of almond-juice, put a quarter of a 
pound of rice and two teaspoonsful of orange 
flovirer water; mix them all together, and 
simmer it ovw a slow charcoal fire ; stir it 
repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at 
pleasure; serve it with beaten cinnamon 
strewed ova*. 

ALMOND ROLLS, BITT£;R. Blanch 
aad pound eight ounces of almonds five of 



sweet and three of bitter) to a very €ne 
paste ; then place ei^it ounces of flour on 
your slab ; make a hole in the middle, and 
put into it eight ounces of powdernsugar, the 
yolks of four eggs, and a grain of sau; mix 
them aU well together into a firm smoota 
paste ; roll it out and cut it into four equal 
parts ; roH each piece to the same length ; 
cut them into pieces about the size of a wal- 
nut, and form them to the shape of a wild 
turnip, and as you do them put them on a 
baking-tin lightJy buttered ; dwrez them and 
bake them of a proper color in a moderate 
oven. When they are taken firom the oven, 
let them stand a little while to dry. 



ALMOND 
ding,) 



PUDDING, {See Pud^ 



ALMOND TUMBLES. Blanch and 
pound three ounces of almonds very fine, 
when almost beaten enough, tal^e the white 
of an egg beaten to fit)th, one pound of doa- 
ble-refined eagar well beaten, and put it in 
by degrees, working It into a paste with your 
hands, roll it out and bake it on buttered 
plates in a hot oven. 

AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. (See 
Blancmange.) 

AMERICAN GINGERBREAD. Take 
half a pound of firesh butter melted, one pound 
and a half of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of brovm sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of pounded ginger, nine eggs, the yoUka and 
whites separatdy beaten, one glass of rose 
water, and one of white wine ; mix all these 
well together, and beat it for an hour; ibea 
with a spoon spread it over flat tin nans, 
about the thickness of a penny-piece ; Iboke 
it of a light brown, and while virarm, cut it 
into oblong pieces, and place them on ead 
till cool, when they will be vary crisp. 



AMERICAN VINEGAR. 
egar.) 



{See Ftn- 



AMERICAN SNOW BALLS. BoU 
some rice in milk ,till it be swelled and soft; 
pare and carefiilly scoop out the can of five 
or six good^ized apples, put into each a lit- 
tle grated lemon-peel and cinnamon; place 
as much of the rice upon a bit of linen as 
win entirely cover an apple, and tie each close- 
ly. Boil them two hours, and serve them 
with melted butter, sweetened with sugar. 

ANCHOVIES "^ash half a dozen an- 
diovies, and take the meat firom the bones; 
cut them into four fillets, place them on a 
dish with some sweet herbs, cut small; and 
the yolks fmd whites of bard eg^, also out 
small. 



ANC 



3 



APP 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. Waah yoor 
mdwriefl caiMAy, Cake ooi the boneB, and 
^ tliem; then poond them in a moftar 
ottO tfa^ are reduced to a paste; and mix 
ills paste with double the qaaatityof fineah 



ANCHOVIES, BUITER OF. Wash 
finoan the pickle siHae fine young anchovieB, 
ixMie, and take off the heads, then pound them 
in a mcNTtar with fi'eah butter till quite smooth, 
and rab it through a sieve. 

ANCHOVY PASTE. Pound them u a 
VKNtar, then rub it through a fine sieve ; poC 
it, cover it with clarified butter, and keep U 
inacoolf^ce. Ifyou have essence of ancho- 
rjr, you may make luachovy paste extempore, 
ly rubbing the esaoice with as much flour as 
wiU make a paste. Mem. — ^This is merely 
mentioned as the means of making it imme- 
diately; it win not keq>. 

ANCHOVY POWDER. Pound the fUi 
in a mcMTtar, rvb tbem through a sieve, and 
make them into a paste with dried flour, roB 
it into thin cakes, and dry them in a Dutch 
oven befinre a slow fire ; pouDded to a fine 
powdor, and put into a wdlnrtopped bottle, it 
win keep for years; it is a very savoury 
relish, spriakki on bread and biirtter for a 
sandwich, &c. See Oyster Powder. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (1) Cut seme 
diin slices of bread about the length and 
breadth of a finger; fiy them in oil. Place 
them <m a dish, and pour on them a sauce 
made of oil, vinegar, vrhcie pepper, pandey, 
scalUon, and shalJbts, cut up t<»<^her. Tbea 
cut the anchovies into thin dices, and lay 
thenroa the toast. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (2) Bone and 
wash the anchovies, pound them in a mortar 
with a little fi^esh butter; rub them through a 
sieve and spread them on a toast. You may 
add, while pounding the anchovies, a little 
made mustard and curry powder, or a few 
grains of Cayenne, or a little mace or other 
apioe. It may be made still more savoury, by 
^uig the toast in clarified butt»*. — N.B. 
iLeep your anchovies weU covered ; first tie 
down your jar with bladder moist^ied with 
vin^ar, and thra wiped dry; tie leather 
over that: when you open a jar, moisten the 
bladder, and it wiU come off easily; as soon 
as you have taken out the fish, replace the 
coverings ; the air soon rusts and qmils 
anchovies. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. (8) Bone and 
roU up two or three anchoivies, place diem 
'^L^^^J^ dry toast, and garnish with 
43arled parsley. 



ANGELICA TO CANDY. CM dw 

stalks when thick and tender, put them on 
in boiling water, and when venr tender, drain 
it off, ami throw than into cold water; peel 
off the skin, and scald them in a thin siiup, 
made with the same proporti<m ofmigar that 
there is of fiuit; heat it twice a day tiU the 
sirup is almost dried m, and then dry them 
under garden glasses, or in a stove, and torn 
them twice a day. 

APPLES, Cboks, in choosing apples for 
culinary purposes, should always be guided 
by the weiefat, the heaviest being always the 
best; and Uiom are particularly to be tak«), 
which, upon being pressed by the thumb, 
yield with a slight cracking aoise. Larae 
apples possessing these quauties should be 
taken in preference to smaU ones, as then 
is less waste in peeling and goring. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (1) Divide 
twelve large apples in halves, core diem, and 
place them on a thin patty-pan at maxarine, 

autteclose to each omer, with the flat side 
ownwards; squeew a lonon into two 
spoonfiils of orange flower water, which poor 
overthem; shred fine some lem(»-peel, throw 
it over them, and grate fine sugar all over. 
Set them in a quick oven, and bake them 
half an hour. When served, strew fine su- 
gar an over the dish. 

APPLE BLACK-CAP. (2) Paw 
die apples, lay them in your pen, strew afew 
cloves over them, a little lemon-peel cut very 
smaU, two or three blades of cinnamon, and 
some coarse sugar ; cover the pan with brown 
paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and 
let it stand tiU the ovon is cold. 

APPLES, TO BAKE WHOLE. Put 

some sound and weU chosen apples into a 
pan, with a smaU pix^rtion of cloves, a 
little lemon-peel, some brown sugar, a glass 
oi' more of red wine, according to the quan- 
tity of fiiiit ; put them into a quidL oven, and 
bake them at least one hour. The sugar to 
be limited according to the quality of the 



APPLES, CHARLOTTE OF. (8u 

Charlotte.) 

APPLE CHEESECAKES. Pare,oore, 
and boil tvirelve aj^les with sufficient wator 
to mash them; beat them very smooth, add 
six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, 
and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of 
fresh butter beaten to a cream, and svtreet- 
ened with powder sugar, beat it in with the 
apples. Bake, in a puff crust and serve open. 

APPLES CLEAR. Boil half a pound 



APP 



APP 



cfloafsDsar inapintofwater; take off the 
■cum, and put ia some large apples, pared, 
eoied, and cut into quarters, with the peel 
and juice of a lemon; let them boil till clear, 
without a cover upon the sanoe-pan. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (1) Oat some 
apples in half, core them, prick the skins with 
a knife and throw them into cold water; 
then put them into a pan with some clarified 
sugar, and stew them gently till tender; place 
the apples in a dish, and pour the sirup 
through a sieve over them. 

APPLES COMPOTE. (2) Pare and 
cut half a doaen fine apples in hatf, and put 
Aem into a pan witha litde waterandlemcMi- 
jnice; thenclarifyhalf a pound of sugar, and 
Ythea you havedunmed it put in your apples, 
and the juice of a lemon; tmn the apples 
"frequent^. As soon as you find the fork will 
penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and 
may be taken out; strain and reduce the 
Bjrrup; strain it again, and then pour it over 
your apples, which may be served either hot 
ercolcU Ghwnishwiththepeelof ayeryred 
apple, cut into variout dewes, and laid on 
dapples. 

APPLES, WHOLE. The proceedinff is 
the same as the last, except that the appfes, 
when inred, are not divided, and the cores 
taken oi 



are 



out with a pieroor. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

■oo(^ out the core of six 




Pare and 

les. 



put part of a clove, and a little grai 
on-peel, inside of each, and endose than in 
pieces of puff paste; boil them in nets for 
the purpose, or bits of Unra, for an hour. 
Before serving, ci*t off a small bit firom the 
top of each, and jput in a tea-spoonfiil of su- 
gar, and a bit of rah butter ; replace the bit 
of paste, and strew over them pounded loaf 
sogar. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED. 
Blake them in the same vray, but instead of 
tieing them in dodis lay them in a buttered 
dish and bake them. 

APPLES, DiOED OR BAKED. Al- 
ways choose the clearest of baking apples, 
prick ihem rath^ deep with a pointed knife 
m several places, ana put them in a mode- 
late oven upon a baking plate ; when half 
done sqneeie them pretty flat widi the hands, 
strew them on both sides with powder sugar, 
and put them again into a soaking oven, 
with some mam sugar over iStnaa, Ken> 
Acm m a diy phceT ^ 

APPLES FESTOONED. Peel some 
folden piFpia>» core them wbol8> and stew 



them to three parts with sugar and a Iftdv 
water; make the sirup prettjr rich to do^ 
to the wpplea ; wrap them round with a thu» 
paste, cut with a paste-cutter, and make knot* 
or flowers with the same paste to put on ther 
top of the apples ; rasp some sugar over, and 
bake a very short time. 

APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. 

Bake er scald eight or nine brge apples; 
when cold pare and pulp them thrty^ a sieve, 
beat this up with fine sugar; put to it tiie 
whites of four or five e^s that have been 
beaten with a little rose water; mix it a lit- 
tle at a time,andbeat it till it is Ugfat; heap 
it on a rich custard or on jelly. 

APPLE FOOL. Pare, core, and col 
into tliin bits, some good st^wiiw apples; 
stew them tUl tender, with a little water, 
two cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and the peel 
of half a lemon; pulp half a pound through a 
sieve, and add the same weight ofbrown sugar ^ 
the juice of a lemon, and the whites of two 
eggs; beat them all together for an hour. 
S&rve it upon rich cream, or a boiled custard> 
in a glass diah. It may be made in the same 
way as the gooseboiy nol, as may also stew- 
ed ihuhsurb. 

APPLE FRAZE. Cot apples into thick 
slices, and 67 tkem of a clear light brown; 
take them h*om the pan, and lay them to 
drain; they may be pared or not; thenmake 
a batter. Take five eg^t leaving out two 
whites, beat diem up with cream or flour, 
and a little white wine, make it of the oon- 
sistenoe of pancake batter; pour in a little 
DKlted butter, mixed with nutmeg and si]^|ar» 
Let the batter be hot, and dit^ in the fiitters^ 
laying on every one a sfice of apdle, and thei» 
a spoonfiil of batter on each. Fry them oi 
a pale brown, when taken up, strew double- 
r»ned sugar aU over them. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (I) Beat the 
joJka of ei^t egga, the whites of four, well 
tf^ther, strain them into a pan ; then take 
a Quart of cream, make it mo^rately hot, 
and add two glasses of sack, three-qiuoterv 
of a pint of ale, and mix them well together 
When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating 
it weB together, then add nutmeg and ginger 
grated, sut and flour at pleasure. Tlw bat- 
ter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced 
apples, or scraped pippins, and fiy them qoidi 
in butter. 

APPLE FRITTERS. (2) Pare, 
core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak 
them for two or three horn's in lurandjr, sugar^ 
green lemon-peel, and ^rarae flower water; 
when they have thorougfahr mibibed the fla- 
vor of these ingirediemts^ curain^andpat tfactt 



APP 

ma a €kA well 11X1111(10(1 widi llov, and 
dnke tbem so tbat the flour may adbere all 
tlieni; fry tbem of a good color, gine 
flogar and a hot wlamandpr. 



APP 



APPLE FRITTERS. (8) Slew 
ame apfJes cot email, tocetber with a little 
water, eugar, lemoo-peel, and cionamoo; 
when aoft, add a little white wine, the joioeol' 
half a lemon, and a bit of freeh butter; when 
oold, mix tbem with a batter, as fcr Tun- 
bridge pu6b, or endoee tbem inrooDdsofpuff 
{nate. Fiy, and serve tbem with sifted km/ 
sugar ovtK* (hem. 

APPL£ FRITTfS^. (4) Four well- 
beaten egge, half a pint </ cream, two table 
spoonfalB of yedM, three of white wine, and 
two of roee water; half ateaBpoooiulofg^Br 
ted notmeg, and of eak ; make it into a tliick 
batter wim flour, peel and core two or thi'ee 
apidee, cut tbem into thin bits, and mix tbem 
with the batter; cover it over, let it stand, 
phoed near the fire, about an hour; drop it 
into boiling burd, and sore them in a napkin 
withmgar strewed over them. Gooseberries 
previously steered may be done in the same 
way. 

APPLES, GLAZED. TeeA adooen of 
aapleB and Iraive the tails ; gore at the o|^>o- 
site side not quite through, and boil them 
with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, 
and a spoonful of brandy » sinmaer slowly tliat 
they may not break; when neairly dtxie, take 
them out, reduce the sirup to a earamelt and 
pat in the apples, rubbing tbem all over with 
It; or you may wiap tliem in a paste, rasp 
sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with 
a white glaze. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (1) Boil 
some pippins till they b^n to get tender, then 
pot ^on into cola water; pare and core 
them ; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and 
put it over the fire, letting it remain till it be- 
comes Yery thick ; then weigh an equal quan- 
tity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises in 
sparkles which cluster together; put the mar- 
malade to it, and stir them well with a wood- 
en i^won till the apple benns to boil; thm 
take it off and when a littM cool, put it into 
pots, but do not cover tbem till quite cold. 

APPLE MARMALADE. (2) Para, 
core, and cut your apples into small pieces, 
put tbem into water with a little lemon^uioe 
to keep them white. Take them out aner a 
riiort tmie and drain them. Weigh, and put 
them into a stew-pan; if fiv presrat use, Iwlf 
a pound of snsar w31 be M&ciBDi finr each 
pound of apples, but if iar keeping, double 
that qnanti^ will be necessary. Add to it a 
•tick <tf cinnamon and tiie juice of a lemon. 

1* 



Put iln staw^ptn ovar a farak lira aad OMW 
it; when the apples ara pulped stir the ma^ 
tare till of the proper eoonHeaoe: llan put 
the mannalade into pots. 



APPLES IS PANCAKES* Oit 
apples very small, slew them with a liltk 
white wine» nafted lemoo-peel, pounded cin- 
namon, and brown sugar ; mash them, and 
spread it over pancakes ; roll them up, and 
serve with sified loaf sugar over them. 



APPLE POUPETON. Pue 
good baking apples, take out the ooras, and 
put them into a skillet; to a pound wad a 
half of apples, put a quarter ofa pound of su- 
gar, and a wine glass of water. Do them 
over a sk>w fire, add a little cinnamon, and 
keep them etirriug. When of the consist-' 
euce ofa marmalade, let it stand till cool; 
beat up the yolks of four qpgs, and stir in lour 
table epoonnils of srated bread, and a quarter 
<^ a pound of Iresu butter; then form it into 
shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it i 
down on a plate, and eerve. 



APPLE 
•ervet.) 



PRESERVE. (Su iV«. 



APPLES AND RAISINS. Pareandcut 
twelve apples into quarters, and each quailer 
into four pieces, put tbem into a pan with four 
ounces of good fresh butter, two of sugar, over 
\diich the zeste of an (nrange lias been grated, 
and a quarter of a pound of currants well 
washed; toss i^) these ingredients over a mod- 
eiate fii-e for a few minutes and then let them 
cool. Make a round under-crust seven inch- 
es in diameter, moisten the edge and put on 
it a band of puff paste three<c^uarteri of an 
inch high and Ifiuf an inch thick ; put your 
apples, &c. in this so as to form a sort of 
dome, cover them with the puff paste, takioff 
care diat it does not extend beyond the band, 
upon which it must be pressed down ; wash 
it over with while of ^^, and bake it 
in a gentle oven for about an hour. When 
a little cooled, take the whites of two eg^, 
whipped to a strong fi'oth and mixed with 
two ounces of powtfer sugar, and mask with 
it your cake, sprinkling it with sifted su- 
gar; then, having drained and dried some 
currants, mix them with sugar, and strew 
them over the dome; form a crown of small 
mertngttM with the remainder of the whit* 
of e^, and place it on the band; cover them 
with sifted sugar, and color the whole of a 
clear yellow in the ovm, and then serve im- 
mediately. 

APPLES IN RICE. (1) Scoop out 
the cores, and paie, very n^isly, half a doa- 
en good-sized apples; bod them in thin, clari- 
fied sugar; let them imbibe die sugar, and 



JIf'R 



APR 



W cttTBRn to pivMrve tben* ibviD* Make & 
menasdade with scMiie other arolee, addins 
to it aipncot marmalade^ and tour oonoes o? 
rioe preTiousfy boiled in mSBs., with mgar and 
butter, and the yo&s of two or three egm ; 
pot them into a dish lor table, surroond it 
widi a border of rice, and place the whole ap- 
ples in the rioe, and marmalade and bake it. 
When done, put into eadi of the apples a tea 
ttwonftil of any kind of sweetmeat you may 
think proper. 

APPLES IN mCE. (2) Pare, core, 
and cut four or fire good apples in quarters ; 
boil some rioe in a cloth, and when soft put 
in the flnples, tie it up very kxMe, and boil 
gently tul sufficiently done. ^ 

APPLE SOUFFLET. Vrepaxe apples 
as for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
hich and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the 
>n4)ites of two or three eggs, with a little sift- 
ed loafsii^gar, lay it iqion the rice, and bake 
it in an oven a light brown. &erve it instant- 
ly when done. 

APPLEALATURQUE. Neatly pare 
and pierce out the cores of eieht or ten ap- 
ples, put them on the fire wiUi a thin sirup 
of clariSed sugar, cover them close md let 
them sinuner gentfy ; tims them, that both 
sides may be done. When thoroughly done 
lay them on a dish, with a wet paper over 
mem. Put a paste round the dish you serve 
tiiem in, and bake in a gentle oven to harden 
it, then put in a layer of am>le sauce, over 
which put the apples, and fill the holes where 
the cores vrere with dried cherries or ap- 
ricot jam, then cover it with the apple sauce ; 
beat up the whites of six eggs to a iroth, 
and aad powder sugar till they appear quite 
smooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the 
white of eg^ over them, smooth it neatly over, 
and sift some powder sugar over it ; color it 
in a gentle oven. 

APPLE WATER. Cut three or four 
hm apples into slices, put them into a jug, 
and pour a quart of boiling virater over them ; 
cover die jug. When qmte cold, strain and 
sweeten it, and add a little lemcm-juioe. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh 
equal Quantities (^loaf sugar and of apricots ; 
ac^ tnem, and take off the skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, put the fiuit into it, and 
kt it remain for two or three days ; put the 
apricots into glasses. Mix wiui tl^ sirup 
the best pale brandy, half and half, and pour 
it over the aprioots and keep them closely 
""tarend. Peadbes and ne<tfarines may be 
toe in the same way. 



APRICOTS, CHARLOTTE Ml 
QiooBe twenty-four fine, pkanp, but not torn 
ripe, apricots, pare and divide them intv 
eight peats, toss tfaa» iqp in a qoarto: of » 
pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of wann 
Dutter; in the meantime line a mould as di* 
rected (see Chariotte); poor kt the apri^ 
cots, and finish as usual. When tamed ois 
your dish, cover it Kg^tly with aprioot mav^ 
malade, smd serve it immediately. 

APRICOTS TO DRY. Pare the apri;- 
oots, and carefiilly take out the stones; Uaincb 
the kernels, and put them into the apricolB; 
strew over a pound of fiuit the same quantity 
of finehr-ponnded loaf sugar, and let Ihem 
stand till the sugar has ex&acted the juice, 
then boil all to^^ther genti^; when the firuk 
is tender, take it out vnth care, and boil the 
simp till very rich ; pour it over the finit, 
and'in three days put it upon dishes, and dry 
them in the sun und^ garden dasses, turning 
them once or twice a-day, to keep die Aap& 
as round as possible^ Aa^ inferior apricoCv 
may be cut aown and bpiled in the mrap, fiir 
tarts. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Take 
some fine apricots, and choose fiom amongst 
them those which are of the deepest yeUo vr 
and the ripest, (they nmst not be too ripe.) 
Peel them, take out the stones, and chop tneB» 
up; weig^ twelve pounds of them and pot 
thetn into a preserving-pan, with nine pound* 
of powder sugar ; place your pan over a quick 
fire, and keep yom* preparation oonstent^ 
stirring with a long wooden spo<Hi. To find 
out when the marmalade is sufficiendy done, 
let a few drops &11 into a glass of cold water, 
and if they do not spread in the water yovr 
marmalade is ready to put into pots. An- 
other method of ascertaining when your mar- 
malade is done is by takmg some on the «ad 0!* 
your finger and thumb, and just mb them to- 
gether, and if on separating them you find the 
marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficient^ 
done. 

APRICOTS A LA PORTUGAISE. 
Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them ii» 
half, and take out the stones ; place them on 
a silver plate, and pour over some clarified 
sugar, with a little water; put them on a 
stove without covering them; when suffi- 
ciendy done, take thm fixxn the fire, and 
strew sugar over; then put on the lid of the 
beking<4ian under the fire, to make them of a 
good color. 

APRICOTS, WHOLE. Choose the fin- 
est yelfew, but not too ripe, aprioola; take 
off the stalks, prick them on each side with 
a pin j make an incision with the point ct 
a knife, throng^ which extract the stone* 



ART 



▲ 8P 



IB ta6 fire Widl M 

wifl c w f c r theai, onUl near boiii^f , 
., if moAy tiie afriooti ihould be thrown 
■loooldwaeer; take care th^ are atteqnni* 
ijr tender. Drain then on a nvdle, and in 
Ae nieBptinBe dnrify and boil eome eugar 
t» the d^ree yoa require; put in a little 
water, and wfara it bode lonove it fi^jn the 
fee, md add to it the finit, and having given 
them a fisw btMlioge together, let them cooli 
then drain and plaoe them in yov eompo<icr«. 

ARTICHOKES AND ALMONDS. 

lUbehalf a pomid of eweet ahnonde hlaocb- 
ed and beat fine, with two tea epoonfide 
of orange-Aovraror roee water; then take 
aqoart of cream» and boil it with a emaJl 
^1— tky of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it 
vitfa fine angary and mix it with die ahnonde ; 
0ar them together, and strain it throogfa a 
sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken it 
wi^ the yoiks d six eggs; then garnish a 
deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom ; then 
pot in shred artichoke bottoms, being first 
boiled; and apcm these a little melted butter, 
dued citron, and candied cH^nge; repeating 
the same until the diefa ib nearly full, then 
poor in the cream, and bake it without a lid. 
When it is baked, grate sugar ovor it, and 
serve it hot. Half an hour will serve to 
bake it. 

ARTICHOKES BOILED. Soak diem 
in cold water, wash them well, then put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a handful 
of sak, and let them boil g^y till they are 
lender, which will take an hour and a half, 
or two hours: the surest way to know when 
they are done enough, is to di-aw out a leaf; 
trim them and drain them on a sieve; and 
send ap ndted butter with them, which some 
pot into small cups, so that each guest may 
have one. 

ARTICHOKES TO BOIL. Cuti^die 
stalks dose to the bottoip, wash them well, 
and let them lie for some hours in cold wa- 
ter; put them on ui boiling water with a 
little salt m it, cover the pan ckisely, and 
bo3 them an Immr- and a half. If tb^ are 
old, and have not been fiesh gathered, they 
will take a longer time to boil. Metted but- 
ler is served with them in a sanoe^nreen. 

ARTICHCH^ BOTTOMS, to Dry 
jiirD PicKLK. Half boil the artichokes, 
strip off the leaves, and pull out the choke; 
put the bottoms into small jars, and cover 
them with a cold boiled bnne of sah and 
water; put melted mntton suet on the top to 
exchide the air, and tie hhulder ovor tbem. 
To dry them, th^ are boiled as finr eating, 
the leaves and choke pulled out, and the bot- 
toms dried upon disfaes in an oven, and then 



kept IB paper bi^ Wkn lobe 

they mnst be laid into wann water, and 

edfor two or three hoon; they may than ba 
plain boiled, and eaten with melted buHv, 
or stewed in grevr with a little ■lahraoai 
catsup, pepper, and sak, and thiphfiwd wink 
a bit of batter relied in iour. 
great improvement to all 



They an 



ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, PICKLED. 
Boil the artichokes till the leaves can be pull- 
ed off without breaking the bottome; leaw 
on the part called the choke, set them aside 
till cold, then pit them into wide^nootfaad 
bottles. Boil, in vinsgar, some salt, pepper, 
maoe, and slioed nntm^, and, whHi ooM, 
pour it over the artichokes; tie bladder over 
die bottles. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (1> 

Are boiled and dressed in the various vrays d^ 
rected for potatoes. N. B— They should be 
covered with thick mehed butter, or a nice 
white or brown sanoe. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM. (2) 

Th^ must be neady peeled, and boiled very 
gent^ by the side of the stove^ widi a little 
salt in the wato- ; when done (but not too 
much, ot they will not look wdl) plao^ then 
on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or 
ai^ other sanoe you please. 

ARTICHOKES, JERUSALEM, to, 
Fricasskx. Wash and scrape or para 
-them ; boil them in milk and water till thM 
aie soft, which will be from a qnarttf to haU 
an hoiB'. Take them out and st^w them a 
few minutes in the following sauce: — ^Rdl a 
bit of butter, the size of a wadnut, in floor* 
mix it widi half a pint of cream or milk; 
season it with pepper, sak, and grated nut* 
mes. They may be sorved plun boiled* 
wim a little melted butter poured over 
them. Scoraooera is fricasseed in the same 
manner. 

ARROW-ROOT. Mix widi two or 
three tablenspoonfuls of arrow-root half a 
pint of cold water; let it stand lor nearly -a 
quarter of an hour, pour off the wator, and 
stir in some pounded siuar; boil a pint of 
milk, and poor it gradoafiy opc» the anomi 
root, stinring it one way all the time. Or 
it may be made with water in whidi lemon* 
peel has been boiled, and then a glass of Port 
or white wine and a little nutm^ stirred 
into it. 

ASPARAGUS. Set a stew-pan with 
plenty of veater in it on the fire; sprinkle a 
handful of salt in it; let it boil, and skim it i 
then put in your asparagus, prepared dids' 



ASP 



8 



BAC 



■crape aD the stalks till they are perfectly 
clean; throw th«n into a pan of cold water as 
you scrape them ; when lii^ are all done, tie 
them up in^little bundles, of about a quarter 
<tf a hundred each, with bass, if^wi can get 
it, or tape (string cuts them to pieces;) cut 
off the stalks at me bottom that they may be 
all of a leneth, kaving only just enough to 
serve as a handle for the green part; when 
they are tender at the sta&, which will be 
in from twenty to thirty minutes, they are 
done enough. Great cai'e must be taken to 
watch the exact time of their becoming ten- 
der; take them up just at that instant, and 
they will have their true flavor and color: 
a minute or two more boiling destroys both. 
While the asparagus is boiling, toast a round 
of a quaitem loaf, about half an inch thick ; 
brown it delicately on both sides; dip it 
ligfady in the liquor the asparafiius was boiled 
in, and lay it in the middle of a dish: melt 
some butter, then lay in the asparagus upon 
the toast, which must project beyoiid the as- 
paragus, that the company may see there is 
a toast. J 

ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape and 
tie than in small bundles; cut them even, 
boL them quick in salt and water; lay them 
on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus 
was boiled in; pour over them melted butter. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Toast a 
slice of bread, butter it, and lav it on a dish ; 
butter some i^gs thus: take rour egg^, beat 
them well, put them into a sauce pan with 
two ounces of butter, and a little salt, untD 
of a sufficient consistence, and lay them on 
the toast; meanwhile boil some ai^»ragus 
tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on 
the eggs. 

ASPARAGUS, FRENCH. Boil it, and 
chop small the heads and tender pejrt of the 
stalks, together with a boiled onion ; add a 
little salt and pepper, and the beaten yolk of 
an egg; beat it up. Serve it on sippets of 
toasted l»^ead, and pour over it a little melt- 
ed butter. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. {See Soup8,) 

ASPICK. Take a knuckle of veal, a 
knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if 
they will not make y6ur jelly stiff enough, 
add two calTs feet, or some swards of bacon 
rasped ; put them into a sauce'pan with a pint 
of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till 
reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, 
boil and skun it well. Put to it two onions, 
two carrots, sak, parsley, scallions, four cloves, 
two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick ; let 
the whole stew for seven hours, then strain off 
the liquor or consomme. Break four eggs 



into a stewpan, and put to diem the doiiMMRWU 
when cold, tlie juice <^ two kmoos, and two 
spoonfuls of tarragon, and beat it with a 
whisk over the fire till near boiling, and when 
it does so, remove your stew<^)an to a smaller 
fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour; 
then pass it throu^ a wet naiddn doidt>led. 
If the jelly is not sufficiently clear, clarify it 
a second tune. Put a layer of this jelfy, about 
half an inch thick, at the bottom of an aspick 
mould, garnish it with truffles, whites ofegga, 
sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, 
pour in another half inch of the jelfy, while 
liquid, with great care, so as not to discom- 
pose your garnish, then pot either calf 'a 
brains, hreasts of fowl, veal sweetbreads^ 
cocks' combs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. 
Be sure to lay whatever you may use, as equal 
and smooth as possible, then fill up your mould 
with jelly, and let it stand till set. When 
wanted, dip the mould in hot water an in- 
stant, place year dish on the tc^ and turn it 
over. 

ATTELETS, OYSTER. (See Oy- 
ter$.) 

• ATTELETS are silver skewei^. 

AUNT MARY'S PUDDING. («€« 
Puddmgt.) 



B. 



BACCHIC CREAM. {See Cream,) 

BACCHIC SAUCE. (See Smu:e.) 

BACON. Cover a pound of nice streaked 
bacon or salt pork with cold water, let it boil 
gently for three-quarters of an hour; take it 
up, scrape the under side weU, and cut off 
the rind: grate a crust of bread not only on / 
the top, but all over it, and put it before the 
fire for a few minutes: it must not be there 
too long, or it will dry it and spoil it. Two 
pounds will require about an hour and a half, 
according to its thickness; the hock or gam- 
mon being very thick, will take more. The 
boiling of bacon is a very simple subject to 
comment upon; but our main object is to 
teach common cooks the art of dressing com- 
mon food in the best manner. Bacon is 
sometimes as salt as salt can make it, tha«- 
fore before it is boUed it must be soaked in 
virarm water for an hour or two, changing 
tlie water once; then pare off the rusty and 
smoked part, trim it nicely on the under sicte, 
and scrape the rind as clean as possible. 
Mem, — ^Bacon is an extravagant article in 
housekeeping ; there is often twice as much 
dressed as n^ be' when it is sent to ta- 
ble as an accompanimeut to boiled ooultrir 



BAG 



9 



BAR 



««■!, a poand and a fadf if ploBty iv a 

m peqpJe. A good Gcnnan imwgB is a 
eocHMNiucal snbrtitBle fiir baooo 2 orfried 



^ 



fvrk 
What 



£ugtwtii Qiti toll 
tk€9mu tkmg. 
baetm, HU J2ngli§k call 



bACX>N TO BROIL. Make op a d»eC 
of paper into the fonu ofadrippiiV'iNui; cut 
voor nom imo thin dices, cot w the rind, 
my ibe hacon on the paper, put it open the 
fridirait, set orer a alow fire, and it will 
noil cleanly. 

BACX3N AND EGGS. O]ta<}uarterof 
a pocBMi 0^ streaked baoon into thm dices, 
an) put tfaem into a stewpan over a slow fire. 
Hiking care to torn them fieqaenth; when 
jdRawitly done, pour the metled nit of the 
bacon into a didi, break oTer it sevon or eight 
ens, add two qxxmfub of gravy, a little 
ntt and pepper, and slew the whole over a 
ibw fire: peas a salamander over it, and 



I BAOON, GAMMON, TO BAKE. Lay 

* it to Sim sJl night in water, scrape it dean, 
and stuff it with all manner of sweet herbs, 
ai dqnne, sage, aavoiT, sweet marjoram, pen- 
ByHtrval, sirawbeny waves, videt leavee, mid 
fennel; chop these anaU, mid mix them widi 
the yoUu of hard eggs, pepper and nutmeg 
beaten, and boil it imiil tender. When it is 

I cold pare off the under side, pull off the skin, 
season it widi pepper andmrtmeg, and pot it 
in a pie or post^, widi whole dorai and slices 

' ofraw bacon laid over it, and butter; ckiseit, 
and bake it. 

BAOON OR HAM SUCES. Ham, or 
bacon, may be fried, or broiled on a gridiron 

\ overa dear fire, or toasted vnth a fixK: take 
care to sUce itof die same thicknese in eveiy 
part. If you wish it curled, cut it in slices 
about two inches long (if bnger,the outside 
win be done too mudi beibre the inside is 
done eooug^); roll it up, and put a little 
wooden ^levrer throng it: put it ma cheese- 
toaster or Dutch oven, for eight or ten minutes, 
turning it as it gets criap. This is considered 
the Inuidsomest way of dressing baoon ; but 
we like it best uncurled, becanee it is criqier, 
and mare equallv done. Slices of ham or 
baoon should not be more than half a quarter 
cS an inch thick, and will eat much more 
mdlow if soaked in hot water for a quarter 

» ni an hour, aild thai dried in a ck>th before 
th^ are broiled, &c. 

BAOON vRELISHING BASHERS. 
If you have any cold bacon, you may make 



a very nioa dnh of it by ennioff it imo 
a^wut a quarter of an inch thidL; giaiesome 
crust of bread, as directed for haim and pow- 
der them well with it on both sides; hv the 
in a cheese^oaster, they wiM be 



browned on one side in about three 
tun them and do the other. These are a 
delicious accompaniment to poached or fried 
eggs: the bacon having been boiled lirrt, ia 
tender and meUow. They are an *w««JV«* 
garnish round veal cutlets, or sureetfareadSv 
or calTs head hash, or green peas or beanSy 
Ice 

BAIN BIARIE. A flat vessel, oonteio- 
iag boiling vraler, meant to hoU other aanoe- 
pans, Mthv fiirpurposes of cookery or to keep 
diihes hot. The advantages of preserving 
die heat of didies by die 6ate maris is diis, 
that no change is efiebted in the flavor of 
the mgiedients. 

BALM BEER. (StsJiser.) 

BANBURY CAKES. iS%9 GdkM.) 

BARLEY CBEAM. (Sts Gream.) 

BARLEY WATER. Take a ooopla of 

ounces of pearl barley, wash it dean with 
cold water, put it into half a pint of boiling 
vratH*, and let it boil for five minutes; pour 
off this vrater, and add to it two quarts of 
boiling water : boil it to tiro pints, and strain 
it. llie above is simple baney water. To 
a qnart of this is frequently addled tvro ounces 
of figs, sliced; the same of raisins, stoned; 
half an ounce of liquorice, sliced and bruised ; 
and a pint of water. BoU it till it is re- 
<hiced to a quart, and strain. Ob9» — ^These 
drinks are intended to aauage thirst in ardent 
fevers and inflammatory disorders, for which 
plenty of mild diluting liquor is (me c^ the 
principal remedies: mid if not auggested by 
the medical attendant, is fireqoendy demanded 
by hcmest instinct, in terms too pbun to be 
misunderatood : the stiMnach sympathizes with 
every fibre <^die human frame, sund no part of 
it can be distresaed without in some degree 
ofiending the stomach: therefore it is of the 
utmost importance to sooth this grand organ, 
bv rendering eveiything we oSex to it as 
elegant and agreeable as thu nature of the 
case will adnut of: the bai^ drink pnmared 
according to the second receipt, will be re- 
ceived with pleasure by the most (felieata 
palate. 

BARLEY BROTH. {Sm Broth.) 



BARLEY GRUEL. Take dune 
of pearl barley, of vi4iich make a quart of 
barley water; if it be not white, shift it onoa 
or twice; put ia two ounoea of currants dean 



B£A 



10 



BEIT 



picked and wadied, and vnhen ihey are plump- 
ed, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little ; 
then put in the yolks of three eggs well beat- 
en, half a pint of white wine, and of new 
thick cream half a pint, and lemon-peel ; 
then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; 
stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as 
cream. 

BARLEY PUDDING. (See PuA- 



BARBERRY JELLY. {See Jelly.) 

BARBERRY CX>NSERVE. Futapound 
of ripe barberries and half an ounce of pow- 
dered fennel seed into a silver vessel, with a 
glass of wato*; boil them three or four times, 
and press tlie juice tlirough a sieve. Replace 
the vessel on the fire wim the juice, aiid add 
to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au 
casae. Boil together a few times, and then 
pour the conserve into cases. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. {See Sirup.) 

BARBEIUEUES TO PICKLE. BoUtbe 
bruised berries of a few bunches in salt- 
and-water; strain, and put a ffiU of the 
liquor to a quart of vin^^ar, wim an ounce 
of salt, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
a quarter of an ounce of pounded gins;er, and 
a little sliced horse-radish ; boil and stiuin 
it, then pour it hot over the barberries, the 
finest bunches having been previously select- 
ed and placed in jars ; when cold, cover them 
closely with bladder. They may also be 
kept m a jar, with a strong brine of salt-and- 
water poured over them. When any scum 
is observed upon the surfeoe, the brine must 
be poured off, and some fi^esh added. They 
are kept closely covered. 

BARBERRY SIRUP. (See Sin^.) 

BASIL VINEGAR. (See Vinegar.) 

BATH BUNS. (See Bime.) 

BATTER FOR FISH, MEAT, FRIT- 
TERS, &c. Prepare it with fine flour, salt, 
a littfe oil, beer, vuiegar, or white wine and 
the whites of ^ns beat up; wlien of a proper 
tliickness it wOldrop out of the spoon about 
the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil or 
hog's lard. 



BATTER PUDDING. 
ding.) 



(See Pud- 



BEANS. Cut, wash, and boil the beans, 
and then throw than into a cullender. Put a 
piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the 
Leans on it, and ganiish them with chopped 



parsley laid round like a cord; faeatthediah 

and serve. 

BECHAMELLE. Reduce some sauce 
toumee over a good fire, moisten with chick- 
en broth or consomme, constant^ stirring to 
prevent its catching ; when of the proper con- 
sistence, add two glasses of boilmg cream, 
continue stirring ; pass it through a hair sieve 
and serve. 

BECHAMEL, OR WHITE SAUCE. 

Cut in square pieces, half an inch thick, two 
pounds of lean veal, ludf a pound of lean haih ; 
melt in a stewpan two ounces of butter; 
when melted, let the whole simmer until it 
is ready to catch at the bottom (it requires 
great attention, as, if it happen to catch at 
the bottom of the stewpan, it will spoil the 
look of your sauce) ; then add to it three 
table^iqxwnfiils of flour; when well mixed, 
add to it three pints of broth or walar (pour 
a little at a time, thai the thickening be 
smooth); stir it until it boil; put the stew- 
pan on the 'Corner of the stove to boil gently 
for two hours ; season it with four cloves, 
one oni(H), twelve pq)per-cc»iis, a blade of 
mace, a few mushrocmis and a fegot made 
of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. 
Let the sauce reduce to a quart, skim the Cat 
off, and strain it throng^ a tamis cloth. To 
make a bechamd sauce, add to a quart of 
the above a pint of good cream ; stir it until 
it is reduced to a good thickness; i few 
musluxKHUs give a good flavor to that sauce; 
strain it through a tamis cloth. 

BEEF. The names of the various pieces , 
according to the method of dividing the car- 
cass, are as follows: — The hind Quarter con- 
tains the Sirloin; Rump; Edge4x>np; But- 
tock, or Round; Mouse Buttock; Veiny 
Piece; Thick Flank; Thin Flank; L^ 
Ran; Legs; Fore Rib; Five Ribs.— The 
fore quarter contains the Middle Rib of feur 
ribs; Chuck of three ribs ; Shoulder, or L^- 
of-Mutton Piece, containing a part of the 
Blade-bone; Brisket; Clod; Neck End, or 
Sticking Piece; Shin; Cheek. Besides 
these are the Tongue and Palate. The En- 
trails consist of the Heart; Sweetbreads; 
Kidneys; Skirts; and three kinds of Tripe, 
tlie Double, the Roll, and the Red Tripe. 

Ox beef is consid^ed the best. The flesh 
should feel tendo*, be fine in the grain, and 
of a bright red color, nicely marble or mix- 
ed with fet. The fet should be white, rather 
than of a yellow ooW. 

Heifer beef is excellent when finety fed, 
and is most suitable for small femiiies. The 
bone should be taken out of a round of beef 
before it is salted, and it must be washed, 
skewered, and bound round firmly befixv. be- 
ipg boiled. Salt beef should be put on %vith 



BK£ 



11 



BE£ 



llfiity of cold wttter , and tHwn it boils the 
Kon removed. It is then kept Mimiieriiig 
far aoBoe hoan. A piece weighii^ fifteen 
BODadewill require three hoora and a half to 
DoiL Ourrola and tnrnipe fcr gamtahinz 
ihcnld be pot on to boil with the beef. I? 
'm the least tainted, a piece of eharooal may 
be boiled witfi it. 

When beef i&to be kept any length of time, 
it dnold be carefidly wiped every day. In 
warm weaAier, wood vinegar is an exodlent 
preservative: it ia pirt all over the meat with 
a brush. To protect the meat fixan flies, it 
nay be qarinkfed over with pepper. Tainted 
neat may be reat o r od by washing in cold 
vater, afterwards in strone chamomile tea, 
after which it maj be sprinkled with salt and 
OBed dm foUowing oblv, first vrashing it 
ia cold water. Roo^y pounded charcoal 
robbed all over the meat also restores it when 
tainted. In Scotland meat is fiwjuently kept 
a fiNTtnii^t smothered in oatmeal, and care- 
fii^ wiped every day ; and if it should be a 
little tamted, it is soaked some hours before 
it is used, in oatmeal and water. 

These directions equally i^ipiy to all sorts 
of meat. The sirloin is the prime joint for 
raastii^. When to be used, it should be 
vrashed, thou dried with a clean cloth, and 
the fat covered over with a piece of white pa- 
per tied on with tluead. The spit should be 
kept at all times exceedingly dean: it must 
be wiped dry immediately after it is drawn 
firm the meat, and wadKd and scoured ev^ 
time it is used. Care dwukl be taken to bal- 
ance the roast properly upon the spit, but, if 
not exactly right, it is better to make it eoual 
by fasbsaing on a leaden-headed skewer tnan 
U> pierce it again. The fire should be pre- 
pared by putting on plenty of coals at the 
Dack. When pitt down, it should be about 
ten inches Seam the fire, and ^dnallv drawn 
Qearar. It is first bested with a littu butier 
or BreiA dripping, and then well basted with 
its own ftit all the time it t. roasting. Ten 
minutes before serving, it should be 8|M*ink]ed 
with a little sah, then dredeed with flour, and 
bested till it is firothed. When it is drawn 
fixnn the spit some gravy will run out, to 
which may be added a litUe boiling salt-and- 
water poin«d along the bcHie: the beef is then 
gamic^ed with plenty c^ finely scraped horse- 
radish. A sirloin, weighing about fifteen 
pounds, diould be roasted for three hours and 
a halC A thinner piece of the same weidit 
requires oaYy three hours. In cold weather 
meat requires longer roasting than in warm, 
and if newly kiQ^ than if it has been kept. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (1) Take about 
eleven pounds of the mouse buttock, or clod 
<tf beef, or a blade-bone, or the sticking-piece, 
or the like weight of the breast of v^; cut 
it into pieca of three or four ounces each; put 



three or four omees of beef drippin9^ iad 
mimeaooopleof hu^ofuona, and pot ihem 
into a large deep slewpan; as soon as it is 
quite hot, floor tiw meat, put it into the stew- 
pan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; 
when it ras been on about ten mimtes, dredge 
it with flour, and keep doing so till yon have 
stirred in as much as you think will thieken 
it; then cover it with boiling water (it will 
take about a gallon), adding it by desrees, 
and stirring it together ; skim it when it boib, 
and then put in <Mfie drachm of groond black 
pepper, two of allspice, and two bay leaves; 
set the pan by the side of die fire, or at a dis- 
tance over it and let it stew very sbwly for 
about three hours; when you find the meat 
sufficiently tender, put it into a tureen, and 
it is ready for table. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (2) Take the 
bone out of a small round of fine ox beef, cot 
some fot bacon in lon^ strips, dip than into 
common and shallot vinegar mixed, and roll 
them in the tbllowing seasoning: Grated nut- 
meg. Mack and Jamaica pepper, one or two 
cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon- 
thyme, notted maiiorara, and savoury, shred 
quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind 
it firmly withtsqie, and rub the outside with 
the seasoning. Put it into a saucepan, with 
the rind of a lemon, four large onicms, the red 
part of three or foinr carrots, and two turnips 
cut into dice; add a tea-cupfiil of strong ale 
and one of vin^ar ; let it stew for six or eight 
hours, tuming^it two r>r tliree times* Half 
an hour before serving, take out the beef and 
vegetables, skim 00*100 fat, strain the sauce, 
and thicken it witii a little flour-and-water 
mixed smooth, add a tea-cupfnl of Port wine, 
retuni it all into tlie pot, and let it boil. 

BEEF ALAMODE. (3) Take a rump 
or piece of beef, bone it,.bait it well and lard 
it with fiit bacon, tlien put it into a stewpan 
with some riiid of bacon, a calf's foot, an 
onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay 
leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, 
salt, and peppor, pour over the whole a glass 
of wato*, let it stew over a slow fire for six 
hours at least. A clean ck>th should be 
placed over the stew pan before the lid is 
put on, which must be carefolly closed. 
When it is done, strain the gravy through a 
sieve, clear oft" the fat, and serve. 

BEEF ALADAUBE. Take a round, 
a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with 
bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown; put it 
into a stewpan or a pot that will just hold 
it; add some gravy, an onion stuck with 
cloves, half a pint of white wine, a giU of 
vin^;ar, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper 
cloves, mace, and salt ; cover it down very 
close, let it Init just simmer till it is tender. 



BEE 



12 



BEE 



lake two ox pahAes, two Bweetfaceads, traf- 
fles, BiordB, artichoke bottonw, stew them all 
tofpelher in some grainr, and poor over the 
bnf; have ready some forced meat balk fried, 
make sonie long, otfaere round, dip eome mp- 
petB into batter, firv and out them three cor- 
ner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay 
the bauB round the dish. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (1) Bone a 
romp of beef; bird it very thiddy with salt 
pork seasoned with pepper, salt, doyes^ mace, 
and allspice, and season the beef with pepper 
and sak; put some slices of bacon into the 
bottom of the pan, with some whole black yep- 
per, a little allspice, one or two bay leaves, two 
onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Put in the beef, and lay over it 
some slices of bacon, two quarts of weak 
■lock, and half a pint of white wine. Govw 
it closely, and let it stew betwe«i six and 
aeven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of 
part of the liqobr it has been stewed in, 
strained, and ihickened with a litde flour and 
butter, adding some green onions cut small, 
and pickled mushr(K»ns. It is poured hot 
over the beef. 

BEEF ALABRAISE. (2) AAer a 
rump of beef has hung for five <»* six days, 
bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to ap- 
pear upon the sur&ce, with bits of salt pork 
or ham cut about half an inch square, and 
rolled in the following seasoning well mixed: 
— Findy minced onion, parsley, thyme, a lit- 
tle fi;arlic, pepper, and rait. What is left over 
cf the seasoning add to a pint of vinesar, one 
of Port wine, and a tea-cupfol of saad oil ; 
steep the beef in this for one night; the fol- 
lowing day pe^ser it, and roast it in a cradle 
spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick 
wown gravy. A little lemon-juice and sliced 
pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish 
with slices of boiled carrot and scraped horse- 
radish. 

BEEF ALANGLAIS£. Take a rump 
of beef, or any piece you like better of the 
flame size ; tie it up neatly with packthread, 
and put it into a stewpan with two or three 
carrots, a parsnip, three or four onions, a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of 
garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil ; moisteI^ 
with some stock or virater, season, and let 
die beef stew gently till half done, then put in 
a few small c^)bages, prepared in the follow- 
ing manner; boil a large cabbage, and hav- 
ing squeezed it pwfectly dry, take off the 
leaves one by one, and put within each leaf 
a little veal or other forcemeat, surrounding 
it vnth three or four more of the leaves, in 
nch a manner as to form little cabbages, 
something larger than an egg; tie these with 
packthread, and let them w stewed with the 



beef. When the iHiolo is done, dean away i 

the outside k)oee &t, and put your heti iu a | 
dish, cut the little cabba^jes inluJf, and place 

them round the dish, with the cut side oat- ; 

ward. Take a little of the stew, strain it \ 

throurii a sieve, and having Aimiwd off tba , 

fot, add a little oollis to Ihidcen it. Reduoe , 

thisoverthefiretotheconsisteneeofaflanoe^ ^ 

serving it ovor the meat and cabbageB. , 

BEEF BAIXS. Mince very findy a | 
piece of tendor beef, fiu and lean; mince an 
onion, with some boiled parsley; add grated i 
bread crumbs, and season with pei^ier, sak,^ 
grated nutmeg, and lemon-ped; mix all to- 
gether, and moisten it with an ^g beaten ; 
roll it into balls ; flour and fhr than in bml- 
ing fresh dripping. Sore them with fried 
bread crumbs, or with a thickened brown 
gravy. 

BEEF BOUILU. (1) In pUin Eng- 
lish, is mderstood to mean boiled l«ef; bat 
its culinaiy acceptation, in the French kitc^ 
en, is fresh beef dressed without boiling, and 
only vary gently simmered by a slow fire. 
CSooks have seldom any notion, that good 80i^> 
can be made without destroying a great deal 
of meat ; however, by a judicious regulation 
of the fire, and a vigilant attNidanoe on the 
soup-kettle, this may be accomplidied. You 
shall have a tureen of such soup as will satisfy 
the most fostidions palate, and the meat make 
Its appearance at table, at the same time, in 
possession of a foil portion of nutritious suocn- 
lence. This requires nothing more than to 
stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping 
the pot boiling a gallop, as common oooka 
too commonly cb), and to take it up as qoon 
as it is done enough. See ** Soup and 
bouiUi," « Beef Shin stewed," " Scotch 
barley broth." Meat cooked in this manner 
affords much more nourishment than it does 
dressed in the common way, is easy of diges- 
tion in propration as it is tende*, and an in- 
vigorating, substantial diet, especially vakm- 
ble to the poor, whose laborious'employinenta 
require support. 



BEEF BOUILLI. (2) Take a rump 
of beef, or pert of one ; bo6e and tie it togeth- 
er in a neat form, and put it into a pot, with 
any odd bits of butcher's meat you may hap- 
pen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or 
mutton; you may add, also, the bones, feet, 
and necks of poultry or game, the meat of 
which has been taken for other dishes; plaoe 
your pot on a moderate fire, not quite iml of 
virater, and skim gently. When it has boiled 
a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six 
carrots, and six onions, into one of which yoa 
should stick three cloves; add a bunch ot 
leeks. Let the whole boil gmtly, till the beet 
is perfectly done; then take it out, and servs 



BEE 



13 



BEE 



«* 



frsik panfay, widi a 



BEEF BBOSE. ASbac way faurgv piece 
of beef iias been taken out of the pot it wae 
bmled in, ddm off the iat with part of the 
liqaar> and boil it in a nuioman. Have 
leed^ in n bowl nafmrwl that hiu oeen toasted 
farown bedre the fire, poor in the boilinr 
fiqaor and etir it a little; if too thick, add 
■MMe liqnor, and eend it to table quite hot. 

BEEF BAKED. Let a buttock of beef 
a^iidi has been in eak about a weds, be well 
waehed and pnt into an eardwn pan, with a 
pint <^ wntor; cover the pan tight with two 
«r three aiieets of/ooife<9»papeiv-let it bake 
fixr or 6n boon in a moderately heated 



BEEF BAKED WITH POTATOES. 
Boil aome potatoee, peel, and poond them in 
a mortar with one or two email oniooe; 
moisten them with milk and an egg beaten 
op; add a little mk and pepper. Seaeon 
auces of beef, or mntton chops, with salt and 
pepper, and more onion, if the flavor ie ap- 
proved; mb the bottom of a paddiqg dish 
with batter, and pot a hycr of the mashed 
potatoes, which shoold be as thick as a bat- 
ter, mid dien a layer of meat, and so on al- 
ternately till the dish is filled, ending with 
potatoes. Bake it in an oven tor one hour. 

BEEF TO COLLAR. Cbt off the end 
of a brisket of beef, and bone it; qirinkle it 
with salt and saltpetre, and let it lie a week ; 
mix together some grated nutmeg, Jamaica 
and bkuik pepper, some chom)ed lenK>n thyme, 
sweet ntai^oram, and panl^ ; strew it over 
the meat, roll it up hard, sew it in a cloth, 
put it into a large jar of water, tie it ploselv, 
and bi(ke it in an oven ; take it oat of the 
jar and press it with a heavy weiriit. When 
it is quite cojd, take off the clom, and keep 
it dry. 

BEEF BROTH. {See Broth.) 

BEEF, GOLD RUMP STEAKS TO 
WARM. Lay them in a stewpaa, with 
cme larse onion cut in quarterB, six berries 
of alkpioe, the sanfe of bbck pq[>per, cover 
die jitQiks with boiling water, let them stew 
gemiy A^e hoar, diicken the liquor with flour 
and butter iiilbbed together on a plate; if a 
pint of gravy^ «boat one ounce of flour, and 
thelike wei^c|f)l)utter, wiUdo; put it into 
the stewpan, rittk^ it well over the fire for 
five minutes, and it is ^leady ; lay the steaks 
and onions on a disl^ /^ pour the gravy 
liiroq^ a sieve over theoi. 



BEEF, GOLD TENDEBIX>1N. (1) 

Gtt off entire the mride of a laiga sirfeia of 
beef, brown it all over m a stewpan, 

ft of Poet 1 



BEEF CUIXJS. 



(See CuiHa,) 
2 



add a qoait of water, half a pint < 
a tea-cnpfiil ofstrony beer, two tabl^sp oon fiili 
of vinepar, aome pepper, sak, and a huve 
onion imely minoed; oover the pan ehne^, 
and let it stew till the beef ba very tendsr. 
Garnish with picUes. 

BEEF, GOLD TENDERLOIN. (2) 

Oit off the meat, with a little of the fct, into 
strips three inchee kmg and half an inch 
thidt; season with pepper and sak, dredge 
them with flour, andfiy them brown in bit- 
ter ; then simmer them in a ridi brown gravy ; 
add of mushroom catchup, onion, and shallot 
vinegar, a table-ipoonnl eadi. Garnish 
with firied panlqr. 

BEEF FILLET IN BIADEIRA. Laid 
a pood fillet of beef, the same as fi>r roasting, 
join the ends together, and pboe it in this 
manner in a stewpan, widi some onions, car* 
rots, and a bouquet garni, some coneomme 
and Madeira, cov«r it with abuttered paper; 
let it boil for a moment, and afterwanib let 
it boil slowly. Put fire upon the top of your 
stewpan. When it is done strain tne broth 
diro^gfa a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it 
as a saooo to your meat. 

BEEF FILLET ROASTED. This fil- 
let lies onfy in the inside of the sirioin next 
to the chine, and is the tenderest part ci the 
ox; spit this on a smaO spit, but do not run 
it through the best part of the meat: roast it 
gently, and baste it with butter ; catch ^^7 
m a dish virfaile the beef is roasting; m tfaie 
meantime make a sauce for it with sweet 
barbs and parsley shred fine, the yolks of four 
ms, an onion, and some orange-peel chop- 
ped small; pot these into sweet butter, sravy, 
a spoonful or two of strong broth and vine- 
sar, stew them all tt^tber. Put your beef 
into this sauce, and serve it hot. 

BEEF FRICANDEAU. Take a nice 
bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned 
with pepper, nk, cloves, mace, and allspice. 
Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, 
a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all 
sorts of sweet horbs, a clove of garlick, a 
G^iallot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. 
When the meat is become toider, oovor it 
dose; skim the sauce well, and strain it. 
Set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is re 
dnoed to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with 
this, and sorve the meat on sorrel sauce. 

BEEF GOBBETS. Td&e about six 
pounds of any piece of beef, except the leg or 
riiin, cut it uito pieces about the size of a hen's 
egg, put them into a stewpan, and just oover 



BE£ 



14 



BEE 



thfim with yfaier, put them over the fire, and 
when the acum riaes, skim it clear off, then 
put in some cIoTee, mace, allspice, and whole 
pepper, tied in a muslin, six heads of celery, 
cut an indi lon^ and well washed, a carrot 
or two cut in shces, two turnips cut in dice, 
a bundle oi sweet herbs, some pepper and 
salt, and a criKt of bread; stew it till the 
meat is tender, and then take out the spice, 
herbs, and bread; have some crusts of French 
roll crisped before the fire, put them in a dish, 
and put the meat, &c. over them. You put 
in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when 
you put in the l^rbs. 

BEEF GRAVY. {See Graoy,) 

BEEF H-BONE. Is to be managed in 
exactly the same manner as the round, but 
will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid. 
An H-bone of 201b8. will be done enough in 
about four hours; of lOIbs. in three hours, 
more or less, as the weadier is hotter or 
colder. Be sure the boiler is big enough to 
allow it plenty of water^oom: let it be well 
covered with water: set the pot on one side 
of the fire to boil gently: if it boils quick at 
first, no art can make it tender after. Tiie 
slower it boils, the better it will look, and 
the tenderer it will be. The same accom- 
panying vegetables as in "Beef Salt Round." 
Dress plenty of carrots, as'cold carrots are a 
general favorite with cold beef. Mem. — 
Epicures say, that the soft, fiit-like marrow, 
whicli lies on the back, is delicious when hot, 
and the hard &t about the upper comer is 
best when cold. 

BEEF HASHED. (1) Take three or 
four onions, chop them very fine, and put them 
into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and 
a little flour; stir it over the fire till nearly 
done and well browned; then moisten them 
with a litde stock and half a glass of wine, 
adding some salt and coarse pepper; let them 
stew till they are thoroughly done, and very 
litde sauce remains; then put in the cold 
beef, minced smallj and let the whole sim- 
mer till it has taken the flavor of the onion. 
When you serve, add a spoonfid of mu^ttard 
and a httle vinegar. 

BEEF HASHED. (2) Cut some of 
the underdone part of the beef, in slices, 
with some of die &t, put it into a mall 
stewpan, with some onion or shallot, (a 
veiv litde will do), a little watei*, pepper, 
ana salt: boil it till the onion is quite soft, 
then put some of the grav v of the meat to it, 
and the Irash. Do not let it boil; have a 
small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, 
and put the hash into it, but first mix a large 
spoonfiil of vinegar with it ; if shallot vinegar 
is UMd there will be no need of the onion or 



raw shallotk You may add a qxxmfid of 
walnut liquor or catchup. ObsaTe, that it 
is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that 
they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat 
dressed a second time, should be only sim- 
mered ; and this last only hot through. 

BEEF HAM. Rub a little common salt 
over a piece of beef of about twenty pounds 
weight ; take out the bone, and in one or two 
days, rub well into the beef the following in- 
gredients, finely pounded and well mixed: 
— ^two ounces of aed-pruneDa, four ounces of 
brown sugar, six ounces of bay salt, one 
ounce of white pepper, and of cbves and nut-^ 
m^, a quarter of an ounce each ; ^len strew' 
over it half a pound of common salt. Let it 
lie fifteen days, turning it daily. It is then 
hung up; or when taikeaa. out of the pickle, it 
may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold 
in the water in which it was boiled; or it 
may be baked in a deep dish, covered with 
a coarse paste. 

BEEF HEART, TO ROAST. Wash 
it well, and clean all the blood carefiiUy fi*om 
die pipes: parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in 
boiling w^er; drip the water firom it; put 
in a stuffing which has been made of bread 
crumbs, minced suet or butter, sweet .marjo- 
ram, lemon thyme, and pai'sley, srason- 
ed with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put it 
down to roast while hot, baste it well with 
butter, froth it up, and serve it with melted 
butter and vinegar; or with gravy in the 
dish, and cmTent jelly in a sauce-tureen. 
To hsistk it, follow the directions given for 
hare. 

BEEF HUNG, BURGESS'S METH- 
OD OF BOILING. Hung beef for grat- 
ing should be put on in boiling water, and, 
to preserve the color, kept boihng as &st as 
possible. Allow for six pounds of beef one 
hour and a half. It will keep good for a 
length of time. 

BEEF, HUNTING. Rub weU into a 
round of beef weighing about forty pounds, 
three ounces of saltpetre ; let it stand five pr 
six hours; pound three ounces of allspice, 
one of black pepper, and mix them with two 
pounds of salt, and seven ounces of brown su- 
gar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and 
q>ices, let it remain fourteen days, and every 
other dky turn and nib it with the pickle; 
then wa«i off the spices, and pat it into a 
deep pan. Cut small nearly six pounds of 
beef suet, put some into the bottom of the 
pan, but the greater part upon the top of the 
Deef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and 
bake it eight hours. When cold, take oiT 
the crust, and pour off die gravy. It will 
keep good for mree months. Preserve tho 



BEE 



15 



BEE 



Baal 



xjg as alitde of it improvw the ilaTor of 
lies, soaps, or any made didiet. 



BEEF KIDNEY. Take some kidneys, 
cot diem into thin slices, and broil them with 
a{»eoe of butter, some sah, pepjper, PBrsknr, 
and green cmuoob, and adoveof garuck,tne 
whole afaoold be dured fine; whoi they are 
flufiBciently dcNoe, take them off the fire (they 
ihoold not broil too long, or ihtej wUl become 
toa^) ; add, when tou serve than, a few 
drops c^ vinegar and a little collis. Beef 
kidneys may luLewise be served, with shallot 
saoce, or aauoe piquanU. 



BEEF 
"Sauce*) 



KIDNEY SAUCE. {See 



BEEF MINCED. (1) Take some coU 
roasted fillet of beef, cot out all the &t and 
soet, then chc^ the meat as fine as possible, 
and pot it into aredooed Spanish sanoe made 
boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit 
of butttf to it. Serve your mince with afoA 
boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toast- 
ed bread. 

BEEF BflNCED. (2) Mince your 
beef veary small; put it into a saucepan with 
a little gravy aiod a little of the &t of 
fowl or any other fiit, moisten it with some 
stock and a little white wine; aeaaoa accord- 
ing to your taste, then let it simmer over a 
goitle fire till it is sufficiently done. 

BEEF OLIVES. Cut the beef into ksw 
thin steaks; prqiare a forcemeat made of 
bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, diopped 
pard^, a little grated lemon-ped, nutmeg, 
pef^per, and salt; bind it with the volks of 
eggs beaten; putalayorof itovereadasteak; 
roU and tie them with thread. Fiy them 
li^tly in beef drifting; put diem in a stew- 
pan with some good lMx>wn gravy, a glass of 
white wine, and a little Cayoine; thicken it 
with a little flour and butter; cover the pan 
cloeefy, and let them stew gentW an hour. 
Before serving, add a table-q^nnil of mush- 
HMMU catchup; garnish with cut pickles. 

> 

BEEF AND OYSTER SAUSAGES. 
Scald threeK]aartera of a pint of oysters in 
their own liquor; take than out and diop them 
finely ; mince one pound of beef and mutton, 
and three-quarters of a pound of beef suet; 
add the oysters, and season with sak, pqiper, 
mace, and two cloves pounded; beat up two 
eggs, and mix them well with the other ii«re- 
dients, and pack it closely into a jar. Wien 
to be used, roll it into the form of small sau- 
sages; dip than into the yolk of an ^^ beat- 
en up; strew grated bread cnndM over them, 
or Ant with flour, and firy them in firesh 
dripping. Serve them upon fi-ied bread hot. 



BEEF PRESSED. Sakapieoeorfarb. 
ket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of the 
ribs, with sak and saltpetre, five days, theo 
boil it gently till extremely tender; pot k 
under a great weight, or in a che ese press, 
till perfectly cold. It eats exoelfently oold, 
and for sandwiches. 

BEEF POTTED. Take tlirae poim^ 
of lean beef, salt it tvro or three cbvs with 
half a pound oi common sah, and naif an 
ounce of sal^ietre; divide it into pieces of a 
pound each, and pot it into an earthen nan 
just sufficient to ccmtain it; pour in haJf a 
pint of water; cover it dose with paste, and 
set it in a very sk>w oven for four hours: when 
taken fimn the oven pour the gravy finom it 
into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it 
with the eravy poured from the meat, and 
pound it moroug^ in a marUe mortar with 
beA butter, till it becomes a fine paste, sea- 
son it with black pepper and albpioe, or 
doves pounded, or giated nutmeg; put it in 
pots, press it down as close as possible, put 
a weight on it, and let it stand all nignt; 
next ^y, whoi it is quite cold, cover it a 
quarter cf an inch thick with chnfied butter, 
wid tie it over with paper. • 

BEEF SALT ROUND. As diis is 
too lar^ for a moderate fomily, we shaO 
write duections for the dressing InJf a round. 
Get the tongue side. Skewer it up tight and 
round, and tie a fillet of broad tape rwind it, 
to keq> the skewers in their pboes. Put it 
into plenty of cold water, and carefidly 
catch the scum as soon as it rises: let it bod 
till all the scum is removed, and thai put the 
boiler on one side of the fire, to keep ttm- 
mering slowly till it is done. Half a round 
of ISlbs. will take about thi-ee hours: if it 
weighs more, give it more time. When you 
take it up, if any stray scum, &c. sticks to 
it that has escaqied the vigilance of your skim- 
mer, wash it off with a paste4xnui: garnish 
the dishes with carrots and turnips. Send 
up carrots, turnips, and parsnips, or greens 
&c. on separate dishes. Peas podding, and 
MT PUDDiVG, are all \ery proper accom- 
paniments. N.B.—* The outside slices, 
vdiich are cenerally too much saltkt and too 
much boiled, will make a very good relish as 
potted beef. For using up the remains of a 
joint of boiled beef, see also Bubble and 
Squeak. 

BEEF RAGOUT. Take arump ofbeef, 
cut the meat fi:t>ra the bone, flour and fiy it, 
pour over it a little boiling water, abcHit a 
pint of small beer; add a carrot w two, an 
onion stuck with cloves, some whole p^per, 
salt, a piece of lemon-ped, a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; let it stew an hour, then add some 
good gravy ; when the meat is tender take it 



BEE 



16 



BEE 



001, fltnuo the iHiuoe, thicken it with a little 
fioor; add a little celery ready boiled, a little 
catchup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or 
tne celeiy may be omitted, and the ragout en- 
riched by addmg mudirooms fresh or pickled, 
artichoke^wttonfi boiled and quartered, and 
hard yolks of eggs. A piece of flank, or 
any piece that can be cot free from bone, 
wul do instead of die rump. 

BEEF RISSOLES. CSiop finely a 
pound of lean tender beef, and a quarter of a 
pound of beef suet ; pound them in a mai'ble 
mortar ; mix with it a quarter of a pound of 
grated bread, a little onion, and a head of 

garlick bruised ; season with salt and pepper; 
ind it with three eggs well beaten ; make it 
up into small cakes, fry them of a li^t brown, 
then stew them in gravy for fifkeenor twenty 
minutes. 

BEEF RIBS BONED AND R:0LLED. 

When you have kept two or three ribs of 
beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and 
flkewer it as round as possiUe (like a fillet 
of veal) : before they roll it, some cooks effg 
it, and sprinkle it with veal stnfiSng. As the 
meat is more in a solid mass, it vnll lequirs 
more time at die fire; apiece of tenor twelve 
pounds weight will not be well and thoroughly 
ixMuted in less than four and a half hcmn. 
For the first half hour, it should not be less 
than twelve inches fiiom the fire, that it may 
get eradualW virarm to the centre: the last 
half hour beK)re it wifl be finished, eprinikle 
a little salt over it; and tf yoo wish to finoth 
it, flour it, &c. 

BEEF RUBfP BAKED. Take a romp 
of beef, what size you please, bone and lard 
it, season it with ndt and fine spices put it 
into a stewpan iust large enough to hold it, 
together witn half a pint of white wine, some 
green onions, mudbrooms, and shallots ; some 
fean bacon is an improvement. Cloee the 
edges c^the pan vnth a strong paste ; let it 
stew in an oven for five or six hours aocordinff 
to the size of your meat, then serve it with 
its own sauce strained. You may dress a sir- 
loin in the same way. 

BEEP RUMP TO STEW. (1) Bind 
die beef tig^dy, stick in four cloves, and put 
it in a saucepan, vnth three quarts of water,' 
a quarter of an ounce of black pepp&c half 
beaten, eome salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
and three anchovies ; turn it often, and whoi 
half done take it out, pour off the liquor ; put 
in the beef again, widi a pint of Port wine 
and half a pint of table bear made scalding 
hot, and some of the liquor strained ; stew it 
till tender, clear off the fot, and if the sauce 
is not strong enough, add weU-eeasoned beef 
gravy ; thicken it with flour ruUt)ed down in 



a little cold water. Dish the beef, and poor 
the gra^y round it. 

BEEF RUMP TO STEW. (2) Tie 

up the beef, and put it on to stew with nearly 
as much cold water as will cover it; add three 
pounds of fot bacon cot into slices, a handfiil 
of thyme, eig^t onions, four small carrots, 
two turnips, two or lime bay leaves, some 
black P^per, a little all^ice, mace, and 
three cloves, a pint of Port wine and one of 
Sherry. Let it stew gently between seven 
and ei^t hours. Take out the beef, strain 
the liquor, and ^im off all the fot ; diicken 
it viridi a little flour rubbed down in cold 
water, boil it up, and pour it over the beef. 
Have ready carrots and turnips, cut accord- 
ing to fancy, and boiled tender in weak gra- 
vy, and put them round the beef before serv- 
ing. 

BEEF RL HP^TEAKS STEWED. 
The steaks must be a little thicker than for 
broiling: let them be aH the same thickness, 
or some will be done too little, and others too 
much. Put an ounce of butter into a slew- 
pan, widi two onions; when the butter is 
melted, lay in the runuHrteaks, let them stand 
over a slow fire ^Ive minifies, then turn 
them and 1^ the other side of them fiy for 
five minutes longer. Have rea^ boiled a 
pint of button onions; they will take fix)m 
half an hour to an hoar; pot the liqoor tibey 
were boiled in to the steaks; if there is not 
enough of it to cover them, add broth or boil- 
ing water, to make op enough for that purpose, 
with a doBsen corns €^ bbu^ pepp^> o^ & 
little salt, and let them simmer very gently 
for about an hoar and a half, and then strain 
off as much of the liqoor (about a pint and 
a half) as yoo think will make thie sanee. 
Put two ouDoes of butter into a stewpan ; 
when it is melted, stir in as moch flour as 
will make it into a stiff paste; some add 
thereto a tab]eHqxx>nfiil ot claret, or Port 
wine, the same of moshroom catchnp half a 
tea-spoonfiil of salt and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonifal ci ground Uack pepper: add the 
lK|uor by decrees; let it boil op for fifteen 
mmutes; skim it, and strain it; serve up the 
steaks with the onions round the diHh,and pour 
the gravy over. Veal cutlets or mutton oiopB 
may be done the same way, or as veal olives. 

BEEF RUMP^TEAK BROILED 
WITH ONION GRAVY. Peel and stioe 
two lai]ge (Hiions, put them into a quart stew- 
pan, with two taUeH^poonfids of water; cover 
the stewpan close, and set it on a slow fire 
till the water has boiled away, and the onions 
have got a little browned; then add half a 
pint of good broth, and boil the onions till 
th^ are tender; strain the broth firom them, 
ana chop them very fine, and season it witk 



fiEEF 



17 



BEEF 



malirooin catdmp, Depper, ami nh: put the 
ODK» into it, and let it boO gently for five 
mimites ; poor it into the diah, andhty over it 
a broiled romp steak. If instead of broth 
Yoa use good be^ gravy, it will be super- 
latiye. 

BEEF SAUSAGES. Take two beef 
steaks about die size of two hands, and the 
thickoess of a finger ; beat them well to make 
them flat, and pare the edges of them ; then 
mince the panngs widi beef suet, parsley, 
green onions, mushrooms, two shallots, and i 
some basil lesivea, the whole shred fine, and 
mixed into a forcemeat with the yolks of dxar 
eggs ; spread this forcemeat on the slices of 
beef, and roll them up in the form of sausases ; 
tie them tm with packthread, and stew mem 
with a littte stock, a glass of wine, some salt, 
peppor, an onion stuck with two or three 
cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; when they 
are done, strain the liquor; and, having 
skimmed off the fat, reduce it over the fire 
to the consistence of a sauce. Take care 
that the sauce is not too higly flavored, and 
serve it over your sausages; or th^ may be 
served with any ragout of vegetables you 
please. To serve the sausages cold, to make 
a dish for the second course, leduoe the sauce 
bv letting it boil with the sausages till almost 
al\ the rat is consumed ; then let them stand 
to cool with what remains of the sauce ad- 
hering' to them, and serve upon a napkb. 

BEEP, SHORT OR SPICED. ( To 
be eaten cold.) Hang up ten or twelve 
pounds of the middle part of a brisket of 
beef for three or four days, then rob well into 
it tlu'ee ounces of finely powdered saltpetre, 
and, if spice is npproved of, one ounce of 
allc^ice, and half an ounce of black pepper; 
let it stand all night, then salt it with three 
pounds of well-pounded bay salt, and half a 
pound of treacle, in which let it remain ten 
days, rubbing it dai^. When it is to be 
boiled, sew it closely m a cloth, let the water 
only simmer, upon no account allowing it to 
boil, for nine hours over a slow fire, or upon a 
stove. When taken out of the water, place 
two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand 
over the steam for lialf an hour, turning it 
from side to side, then press it with a h^vy 
weight. It must not be taken out of tfaie 
cloth till perfect^ cold. 

BEEF SOUP. (SeeSot^,) 

BEEF, SPRING GARDEN. Cut a 
piece of lean beef into thin slices like Scotch 
collopSy lard it thick with bacon, and put it 
into a pan with salt, pepper, ^nace, two or 
three bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; 
bake it ; then clear out all the gravy, and fill 
U va^ with clarified butter. 

2» 



BEEF TO SALT FOR IMMEDUTJE 

USE. Salt a round of beef moderately W^ 
on the tops and sides, pot it vpoia sticks, or 
the tongs of a dteeae-tub, over a tub of cold 
water, and the salt will be drawn throi^ it« 
so that it win be ih fbr boiling next day. 

ANOTHER METHOD IS— To nib 

for half an hour imo any piece of beef a good 

2aantity of salt, and let it lie lor three or 
HO* days without touching it, when it may 
beosed. 

BEEF SIRLOIN. The nobfe sirioin of 
about fifteen pounds (if much thicker, the out- 
side will be done too much before the inside 
is enough), will reouire to be befi>re the fire 
about mree and a half ot four hours; take 
care to spit it evenly, that it may not be 
heavier cm one side than the other; potalitde 
clean dripping into the drippingpan, (tie a 
sheet of paper over it to preserve the fit), 
baste it well as soon as it is put down, and 
evoy quarter of an hour all the time it is 
roasUng, till the last half hour ; then take 
off the paper, and make some gravy for it ; 
stir the fire and make it clear: to brown and 
fix>th it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it 
with butter, and dredge it with flour ; let it 
go a few minutes longer, till the firoth riKs, 
take it up, put it on the dish, &c. Gramish it 
with hillocks of hinrse-radish, scraped as fine 
as possible with a vmy sluurp knife. A York- 
shire pudding^ is an excellent aoconqpaniment. 

BEEF SHIN STEWED, Desire die 
butober to saw the bone into three or four 
pieces, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
It with cold water; when it simmers, skim 
it clean ; then put in a bundle of sweet herbs, 
a large onion, a head of celery, a doxen ber- 
ries of black pepper, and the same of allspice : 
stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat 
is tender ; this will- take fix>m about three 
hours and a half, to four and a half. Takethree 
carrots, peel and cut them into small squares ; 
peel and cut ready in smaQ squares a couple 
of trnnips, with a couple of dozen of snmll 
young round silver button onions ; boil them, 
till tendei'; the turnips and onions will be 
enough in about fifteen minutes ; the carrots 
will require about twice as long: drain them 
di^. When the beef is quite tender, take it 
out carefulW with a slice, und put it on a dish 
while you thicken a pint and a naif of the gra- 
vy: to do this, mix three tablenspoonfols of 
dour with a tea-cupfiil of the beef liquor ; stir 
this thoroug^y togethw till it boils, skim off 
the fot, strain it through a sieve, and put your 
vegetables in to warm; season with pepper, 
salt, and a wine-glass of mushroom catchiq>, 
or Port wine, or both, and pour it over the 
beef. Dr. Kitehener commends this dish as 
one of the very best that can be carried to 



B£EF 



lb 



BLLR 



Iftble, and advises it be called Ragout Be^. 
A LEO OF Mutton is excellent dressed 
the same way. 

BEEF STEAKS, BROILED. Cut 

the steaks off a rump or the ribs of a fore 
quarter; beat diem well with a rolling-pin. 
Have the gridiron perfectly clean and heated 
over a clear quick fire ; lay on the steaks, 
and, with meat tongs, keep turning them con- 
stantly, till they are done enough ; throw a 
little salt over tnem a little before taking them 
off the fire% Serve them as hot as possible, 
^ain, or with a made gravy and sliced on- 
ion, or rub a bit of butter upon the steaks 
the moment of serving. Mutton chops are 
broiled in the same manner. 

BEEF STEAKS, STEWED. Fry the 
steaks in a little butter; take them out of the 
pan, and frv in it a minced onion ; return tlie 
steaks, with a little boiling water or gravy,* 
some pepper, salt, and a table-«poonful of vu> 
egar ; stew them gently for two or three hours; 
tlucken the sauce with butter rolled in flour ; 
and serve with or without pickles. 

BEEF STEAK PIE. {See Pie,) 

BEEF STEAK PUDDING. (See 
Pudding.) 

BEEF STEAKS, DRESSED. Cut 
thin steaks, longer than they are broad, off a 
nuinp ; beat them widi a rolline-pin ; season 
them with pepper, salt, and finely minced 
onion ; roll ana tie them with a thread ; cut 
tliem even at the ends ; £7 them brown with 
a little butter; make a sauce with a piece of 
butter browned with flour, some gravy or 
water, a minced onion, pepper, and salt. 
Boil it, and add the steaks, ana let them stew 
an hour. Before serving, add some mush- 
room catchup, and take off the threads. 

BEEF, SCARLET. Mix a little mace, 
cloves, allspice, black pepper, and salt- 
petre together, rub it well into two pounds of 
tender lean beef; let it lie six days, turning 
it daily, and rubbing it with the pickle ; then 
roll and tie it finmy with tape ; put it and 
the pickle into a small iar, widi a slice or 
two of beef suet under and over it ; tie it close- 
ly, and bake it an hour. It is ealen cold, 
cut in thin slices, and garnish with parsley. 
If long kept, the color nules. 

BEEF STEWED. (1) Stew in five 
quarts of water the middle part of a brisket 
of beef weighing ten pounds, add tvro onions 
stuck with two cloves, one head of celery, 
one lai^ carrot, two turnips cut small, a 
handfid of sorrel leaves, half an ounce of 
black pepper, uad seme salt. Stew it gent- 



ly for six hours. Make a strong-gravy with 
carrots and turnips, tlie turnips to be scraped 
and firied of a brown color in butter ; add 
pepper, salt, a litde Cayenne ; thicken it with 
flour and butter, and pour it over the bee^ 
with the carrots and turnips. 

BEEF STEWED. (2) Take tot 

pounds of a brisket of beef, cut the short rifaS) 
and put it into a well-butt^^ saucepan, with 
two large onions, stuck with three or four 
cloves, two or three carrots cut into quarters, 
a bundi of sweet herbs, a small lemon sliced, 
and five quarts of water ; let it stew seven 
houre. Strain and clarify the gravy^-thicken 
it with butter and flour. C^ap the carrots 
with some capers, mushroom catchi^, and 
Cayenne. Any other pickle that is liked may 
. be added. 

BEEF STOCK. (See Stock.) 

BEEF, MUTTON, OR VEAL TEA. 

Cut a pound of lean gravy meat into thin 
slices; put it into a quart and half a pint of 
cold water ; set it over a very gentle fire, 
whei% it will become gradually warm ; when 
the scum rises, let it continue simmeriim 
gently for about an hour; then sti*ain 11 
throu^ a fine sieve or a napkin ; let it stand 
ten minutes to settle, and then pour off tlie 
clear tea. N. B. — ^An onion, and a few 
grains of black pepper, are sometimes added. 
If the meat is boiled till it is tlioroughiy 
tender, you may mince it and pound it and 
make potted beef. 

BEEF TRIPE FRICASSEE. Let 

your tripe be veiy white, cut it into slipt*, 
put it into some boiled gravy, with a little 
ci'eam and a bit of butter mixed with flour; 
stir it till the butter is melt^i; add a littk 
white wine, lemon-peel grated, chopper: 
parsley, pepper and salt, piddod mush 
rooms, or lemon-juice; shake all together; 
stew it a little. 

BEER, SPRUCE. When ten eallons 
of water, six pounds of molasses, ana three 
ounces of bruised ginger have boiled togeth- 
er for half an hour, two pounds of the outer 
sprigs of the spruce flr are to be added, and 
boiled for five minutes ; the whole is then to 
be strained throu^ a hair sieve, and when 
milk-warm, put mto the cask, and a te»* 
cupfid of good yeast stirred well into it« 
When it has fermented a day or tivo, it is to 
be bunged up, and the following day bot^ 
tied. It win be fit for use in a week. Tim 
ginsfer is sometimes omitted, and instead 
of the spruce fir, tliree ounces of the essence 
may be used, which is to be well whisked, 
together witli the molasses, and a gallon or 
two of warm water; then put into the cask. 



BEER 



19 



BIS 



iAm3i » to be filed up with wster, ud the 



BEER, SPRUCE. (2) The prapor- 
tions are ten gaUoos of water, three qoeite 
ofmolaflaee, a tea-eupfiil of ginger, dieflaiae 
of aUspioe, three oancee of hope, three 
ouaoes wad a half of the eeeenoe of qmioe, 
aad half a pint of good yeast. The hope, 
gingor, and allspice, must be boiled togeth- 
er tilHhe hops ^ to the bottom ^ theinolaa> 
868 and spnioe are then to be diflsolied in a 
bncket-luM of the hqoor, the whole strain- 
ed into a cask, and the yeast well stiired in ; 
when the fennentation ceasee, the cask is 
to be bunged up. 

BEER, BALM. Eleven galloas of 
water and ten pounds of brown sugar are 
to be cfaurified with the whites of twelve 
tggs, carefully skimmed and boiled till 
nearly reduced to ten gallons ; two pounds 
and a half of the yelbw flower of lemon 
balm being pot into a cask, the liquor, 
when milk-warm, is to be poured over it, 
and four or five taUe-epooofuIs of thick 
yeast added. The cask must be filled up 
nxMming and evening with what works over 
it, and bunged up when the fermentation 
ceases. In a month the beo* nmy be bottled, 
and in two or three mondis it will be fit for 
drinking. Half the quantity of the flower 
of lemon balm will prc^xibiy be ibund to 
communicate a flavor sufficiently strong, if 
added when the fermentation is nearly over. 

BEER, GINGER. For a ten-gallon 
fask, eleven gallons of water, foutteen 
pounds of sugar, the juice oi eightem lem- 
ons, and one pouad of ginger are allowed ; 
the s«i^;ar and water are boiled with the 
whites of eight eggs, and well skimmed; 
just before coming to tlie boiling point, the 

S'nger, which must be bruised, is tlien ad- 
td, and boiled for twenty minutes; when 
cold, the clear part is put mto the cask, to- 
gether with the lemon-juice and two spoon- 
fiils of yeast; when it has fermented (or 
three or four days, it is fined, bunged up, 
and in a fortnight bottled. It may be made 
Without the fiiiit. 

BEER, GINGER, QUICKLY Af ADE. 
A gallon of boiling water is poured over 
three-quartera of a pound of loaf sugar, one 
ounce and a quarter of ginger, and 1;he peel 
4ji one lemon; whan milk-warm, the juice 
of the Iranon and a apoonfiil of yeast are ad- 
ded. It should be nude in th^]evening, and 
bottled next morning, in half^int stone hot* 
ties, and the cwk tied down with twine. 

BEER TO BOTTLE. When the 
briskness and liveliness of malt liquors in 



the o«dL fcil, aad th^ 

vapid, which they genflraUr do _„ 

they ate tilted; let thwm be bottled. Ba 
oaraul to use dean and dried bottles; Isaea 
them lawtopped lor tvrelve houn, and tfaea 
cerit theia as closely as possible with good 
aad sooid new cwrks; put a bit of hnp sa- 
gar as big as a nutmeg into each bottle: 
the beer will be ripe, •• e. fine and spaik> 
ling, in about four or five weeks: u the 
weather is cold, to put it qi the day before 
it is drunk, |rfaoe it in a room whoe there 
is a fire. RemenAMr there Is a sed i men t , 
&C. at the bottom of the bottles, wiiich yoa 
must carefiitty avoid distnrii>inff; so poor it 
off at once, leaving a wiim glsssfiil at ihm 
bettooB. 

%* If beer beco m es hard or stale, a few 
grains of carUmate of potash added to it 
at the time it is drunk will correct it, and 
make draught beer as faruk as bottled ale. 

BEET ROOT, May be either baked 
w boiled ; it will take fiiom an hoar and a 
half to three hours, aocordii^ to the else of 
the root, to cook properly. 

BEET ROOT PICKLED. Bofl the 
roots tender, peel, and cut them in vrfasl 
shape you please. Put them into a jar, and 
pour over them a hot pickle of vinesar, pep> 
per, ginger, and sliceid faone-radiu. zoo 
may add capsicums and Cayenne. 

BENTON SAUCE. {See Smtee.) 

BENTON CAKES. (Set Cake$,) 

BIRDS FOITED, how to pes« 

SERVE WHER THST BEOIK TO OROW 

BAD. When birds have come a great way 
they often smell so bad that they can scarce- 
ly be borne from the rankness of the butter, 
by managing them in tlie following manner 
they may be made as good as ever. Set a 
large saucepan of cleui water <m the fira; 
wten it boils take ofi* the butter at the top, 
then take the fowls out one by one, throw 
tliem into that saucepan of water half a 
minute, whip it out, and dry it in a cloth 
inside and out; continue till they are aD 
done, scald the pot clean; when the birds 
are quite cold, season them with mace, 
pepper and sdt, according to taste, pot 
them do>wn close in a pot, and pour clari- 
fied butter over them. 



BISCUITS. (1) Weigh eight 
equal weight of siuar, and the weight of four 
in flour; beat up ttie yolks of five, and pot 
them in an earthen vessel with some rasped 
lemon-peel and the sugar, beat them togeth- 
er for a long time, then add the whites of 
deven eggs also well beaten, then mix m the 



BIS 



20 



BI9 



floor by dcgratt, podr this into pApcr cases 
of whatever form and size you pKue; sirew 
powder sugar over them, and bake in a cool 
oven. 

BISCUITS. (2) Make a pound of floor, 
die yolk of an e^, and some milk into a 
very stiff paste; hMit it well, knead tiQ quite 
smooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, 
prick and bake in a slow oven till dry and 
crisp. 

BISCUIl'S, ALMOND. (1> Blanch 
and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet al- 
monds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine 
sugar; th^n beat them up for a quarter of an 
hour with an ounce of flour, the yolks of three 
esgs, and four oimces of fine sugar, adding 
aSterwards the whites of four eggs whipped to 
a froth : haye ready some paper moulds made 
like boxes, about the length of two fingers 
square ; butter them within, and put in the 
biscuits, throwins over tkem equal quantities 
(tf flour and powdered sugar: bake in a cool 
oven, and when the biscuits are done of a 

food color, take them out of the papers, 
litter almond biscuits are made in the same 
manner, with this difference, tliat to tw6 
ounces of bitter almonds must be added one 
ounce of sweet almonds. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND. (2) Take 
eight ounces of sweet, and as manv bitter al- 
monds, fifteen whites, and eight yolks of eggs, 
two ounces of floor, and two pounds of powder 
sugar, pour boUing Vater on your almonds, 
and almost immediately after turn that away 
and pour cold water jm them ; rub off the 
skins one by one with a napkin, then pound 
them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them 
with the whites of two eggs. Beat me fif- 
teen whites to a snow, suid the eight yolks 
witli half the quantity of the sugar, and then 
mix them with the almond paste; put the 
remainder of the sugar into a basin ; sift some 
flour over it; stir ^ mixture till all the in- 
gredients are thoroughly incorporated, and 
pour it into small paper cases, glaze them 
with the su^ and flour sifted over them. 
Bake them in a pretty warm oven. 

BISCUITS, ALMOND (SMALL). 
Beat up the yolks of three eggs for ten min- 
utes, with four ounces of powder sugar and 
one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded ; 
then add a whole egg, and beat it up five 
minutes longer. Whip the whites to a strong 
frotfi ; mix them and an ounce and half of 
fine sifted flour with the yolks ; work this 
paste weU, and then poor il into small well- 
Dottered copper moulos melon-shsqied; glaze 
lliem; sprinkle them with powder si^ar, 
•nd bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in 
t moderate oven. 



BISCUITS, ALMOND (SourrLK^. 
Bldnch half a pound of sweet almoDds^ eat 
them into dice and dry them in the oven. 
Make a gfcuse with the whites of two new- 
laid eegs ; mix the almonds and a pinch ef 
crisped orang&>flowerB into this, and put it 
into very small paper cases; do not fill them 
above half fiill, as they rise considerably m 
the oven, and would otherwise foil over and 
BpoW their appearance; bake them in a 
moderately heated oven.^ As soon as they 
are pretty firm, they are done. 

BISCUITS, ANISE (SMALL). Wash 
four <kadbms of starred anise, and dry it in 
the oven ; work up the yolks of five eggs aad 
a quarter of a pound of powder sugar for 
about ten minutes; whip the whites to a 
strong firoth, and mix than lightly with the 
yolks : add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted 
flour and the anise ; pour this paste into a 
raiper case, eleven incoes long by seven wide. 
Bsike it in a slow oven for aoout forty w 
fifty minutes, when, if firm, take it out. Am 
soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cot 
the biscuits into whatever forms you please: 
dry tliera in ^ oven until tlwy becooM 
brittle. 

BISCUIT, BREAD. Dry fine floor and 
powder sugaf , of each half a pound, thor- 
oughly: beat up four very firesh eggs for ten 
minutes, then add the sufar, beat them ten 
minutes longer, put the nour, and contimie 
beating ten minutes more. Butter your bak- 
ing plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed 
may be added, if yoo please. 

BISCUITS, BUTTER. Make a paste 
as for sweet biscuits, and when you have 
put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of 
meked butter, after it has cooled a little; 
mix them together a short time with a wood* 
en spoon, and put into buttered moulds, 
which must only be filled three parts, as the 
paste puf& up considerably, ana would risp 
firom the moulds, without care. 

BISCUIT CAKE. {See Cake,y 

BISCUITS, CHESTNUT. Take sn 
ounces of roasted and skinned chestnuts, a 
little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a ha'f 
of powder sugar, smd ten whites of eggs. 
Pound the chestouts to a paste, and 3ieo 
beat it up in an earthen pan with the other 
ingredients; when your paste is of a proper 
thickness, take it up with a knife, and uj 
it on paper, and form into biscuits whateT<n 
size you please. Bake than in a moderate 
oven, and when of a nice color take dwm 
oot. Do not remove them fipom the paper 
tiU they are cold. 



BIS 



21 



BtS 



BISCUrrS^DROP. (l) Poundandsift 
• poond of fine flogar, take die yoUu of seven 
and the whites of ten eggs and Kat well sera- 
lately for an hour. Dry and sift a pounci of 
fine floor, and when cold mix it with die 
cegsand 8agar,be8^ all together for a quarter 
cf an hour, drop upon paper, sift sugar over, 
and bake them. 

BISCUITS, DROP. (2) Beat a pound 
<^ sugar, the yolks of four, and whites of two 
e^, with a little white wine, then put in a 
pound of floor, and a few seeds, mix all «reU 
together. Batter a paper, lay your batter 
on in ^Mwnfuls, ice them widi fine sugar, 
and aet them in a gentie oven. 

BISCUrrS en capsule. Put half 
a poond of fine sugar into an earthen pan, 
and poor over it the yoBu of twelve eggs; 
put the whites into a preserving-pan, and 
•wtads. them fiv half an hour; in the mean- 
time the sugar and yolks of em must be 
stirred with a wooden spoon, and pour diem 
<m the whites; stir diem gently, add six 
ounces of fine flour and two of pcmdersucar 
siiled, and the grated rind <^ a temoa. Mix 
it all wdl together, but with sreat care, lest 
the snow of the whites should fiilL With 
this fill some small buttered moulds, or pa- 
per cases, and bake them in a quick oven to 
a de^ y^ow, first sprinkling them with su- 
gar. If they are in moulds, turn them out 
vAien baked; but th^ may remain in the 
paper cases, which need not be buttered. 

BISCUITS, FILBERT- Take half a 
pocmd of filberts, an ounce of bitter almonds, 
the whites of six, and the yolks of three 
^gs, an ounce of flour, and half a pound of 
fiugar; blanch and pound the filberts and 
amumda, adding, occasionally, a little white 
of egg to prevent their oHiuk. Beat the 
iK^tes to a snow, then the yolks, mix the 
latter with half the sugar; beat them well, 
and having mixed the other ingredients to- 
gether, put them into a sieve, and whilst 
yori are beating, sift them into the whites; 
when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour 
the preparation into paper cases, and bake 
^m in a moderate oven. A litde |p^ted 
iemon-peel, or any other aromatic ingre- 
dient added to the ycrfks, greatly improves 
these biscuits. 

BISCUIT, FREflCH. Weigh five ^[gs, 
and their weight in dried and sifted flour, 
«nd in finely-pounded los^ sugar; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff fipoth, and by 
df^rees beat in the sugar and the ^ur, and 
di^ add the beaten yows; with a spoon half 
fill yellow tea-caps, previously ruM)ed with 
butter, and sift loaf sugar over the top. Bake 
4hem IB a quick oven. Oc» drop the biscuit 



in around Ibrmnpon Aeetsof nAatm papar 
buttered; sift sugar over them. 

BISCUIT, KING*S. Put half a pmnd 
of butler into a basin, and work it about 
well with a wooden spoon ; break six c^gpp 
and whisk them well, add a half pound of 
powder-sugar, and whisk ten minutes kN^er, 
and then mix them with the butter; stir in 
six ounces of currants, and the same of dried 
flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, thr 
siie of a shiiliiu;, on paper, and bake in a 
quick oven. Take them ofl* while hot. 

BISCUIT, LEMAN*S. Sift and dry 
a pound of fine flour; rub it into a quarter 
of a pound of butter, two ounces of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatilo 
salt about the size of a nut; mix in as much 
new milk warmed as will make itintoastiff 
pairte; work it well tosedier, and let it re- 
main for two or three hours, and then roll it 
out, and make it into small square biscuits, 
and mto round balls a little flattened; prick 
them with a ibrk, and b^o them upon dv 
in a quick ovea. Take can th^do not 
bectmie brown. 

BISCUITS, NAPLES. Pot Ham- 
quarters of a pound of fiqe floorto a pound 
of fine sifted sugar; sift both togrther threo 
times, then add six eggs b«iten well, and a 
spoonfiil of rose-water; when the ovoi is 
nearly hot, bake them, but not too wet 

BISCUIT, THE NUNS. Take tho 
whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a 
firoth; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and 
beat them with the fit>th of the whites of 
eggs, as it rises; then take the yolks, and 
two pounds of fine sugar and beat them well 
together, then mix me almonds with the 
sugar and eggs; then add lialf a pound of 
flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and 
some citron shred small; put the composition 
in little cakepaus, and bake them in a quick 
oven, and when they are colored, turn them 
on tins to harden the bottoms : but before you 
set them in the oven again, sift on them some 
double-refined augar. Let the pans be but- 
tered, and fill th»m half way. 

BISCUITS, POTATO. <1) Beat the 
yolks of fifteen egp with a pound of sifted 
su«ar, grate die rmd of a lemon on a piece 
of lump sugar; scrape off the yellow sugar 
with a knife, and having dried it well, add 
it to the above, and continue to beat till it 
becomes quite white; in the meantime whip 
up an eqiuil number of whites, and mix them 
lightly with the rest; then sift into it half a 
pouna of potato flour; stir it in, and poor 
the preparation into paper cases, bat not to ^1 
them; glaze, and place the cases on paper 



BIS 



m 



BIS 



laid on a clean baking-j:in, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUIT, POTATO. (2> Beat sepa- 
rately the yolks and whites of fifleen eggs, and 
with the yolks beat a pound of pounded and 
siftjed loaf sugar, and the grated peel ofa lem- 
on ; when very light add the whites, and sift in 
through a silK sieve half a pound of flour of 
potatoes; mix all lightly togetlier, half fill 
paper cases, and strew over them roughly 
pounded sugar, put a piece of paper upon a 
ix)ard, place the paper cases upon it, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament 
tliem, put hei'e and there upon the top a 
little red-currant jelly, and serve them. 

BISCUITS, THE QUl^EN'S. Talce 
a pound and a half of flour, a nound and a 
half of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, 
and the yolks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- 
ander seed 4 beaten small at discretion; mix 
these well toother, and make them into a 
soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay 
this paste on paper, or in crusts about two 
inclies broad^ and four inches long, set them 
m a mod^uate oven, and when Uiey begin 
to turn brown, take them out, and lay tliem 
on paper, in a dry place. 

BISCUITS, RICE. Take the grated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggjs, 
the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, 
ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of 
apple, and the same of apricx>t, marmalade, 
and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound 
the marmalades and orange-flowers tb^ther, 
dien add the whites of eggs, whipped to a 
■now; beat tlie yolks witli the sugar for a 
quarter of an hour, put them to tlie rest, and 
when well mixed in, add tile lemon-peel and 
rice-flour ; work all together, pour the prep- 
aration into paper cases, bake them in a 
moderate oven, and glaze them. 

BISCUITS, SMALL. Make a paste 
with a quarter of a pound of flour, three 
spoonfuls of fine powder sugar, and the same 
of maimalade ; add whites of eggs to woi'k 
it pretty sod; and make this paste to what 
shape and size you please. 

BISCUITS, SPUNGE. Beat together, 
fi>r half an hour, four well-beaten eggs, and 
half a pound of finely-pocuided loaf sugar ; 
then mi^ in lightly six ounces of dried and 
sifted flour, and the grated peel of a lemon, 
or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, widi a 
table-spoonful of rose water. Flour the 
pans, fill them half fiill, and sifl pounded 
■ugai' over them. Bake them in a quick oven. 

BISCUHTS, ST. CLOUD. Sift two 
cuDces of rice-flour through a tammy into sin 



eartnen pan, with lialf a pound of poYfder 
sugai', the yolks of four eggs, and a little 
green lemon grated ; beat tliera up together 
for a quarter of an hour : whisk the whites 
of eight eggs to a froth and mix them witfi 
the yolks. Put this intc buttered moulds or 
paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done take tliem from the mould while 
hot, and ice them in the following manner: 
beat up half the white of an egg and two 
spoonfuls of powdcr-«ugar with a woodeo 
spoon, add occasionally a few drops of lem- 
on-juice; when it becomes quite white lay ft 
over the biscuits ;. and place them in theoveD 
a minute to diy. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (1) The weight of 
eight eggs in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and 
of four in dried flour ; beat separately the 
whites and yolks ; with the yolks beat the 
sugar for haJf an hour, then add the whites 
and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg* 
lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake 
them in yeHow tea-cups, or drop them upon 
paper^ as the French biscuits. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (2) Mix together 
one pound of dried and sifled flour, the sams 
quantity of pounded and sifted Ic^ sugar, 
ten weQ-beaten eggs* and a few pounded 
cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and 
bake it. 

BISCUIT, SWEET. One pound of 
flour, half a pound of butter, the same quan- 
tity of finely-pounded sugar, and two eggs-, 
without being beaten; make it all into a 
very stifl" paste with cool watS*, roll it out, 
and to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the 
paste into a ball about the size of the yolk 
of an egg, flatten it a tittle, and place tnen 
upon tins to bake. 

BISCUITS, YARMOUTH. Pick and 
wash half a pound of cununts,dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, and put them 
with half a pound of powder-si^r, diree- 
quarters of a pound of sifled flour, and lialf 
a pound of fresh butter; mix tliem into a 
paste with three eggs, roll it out to the 
thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut them 
into what shapes'you please. Bske them of 
a light color in a hot oven. 

BISHOP. Roast four goodnsized bitter 
oranges till they are o£ii pale brown color; 
ky them in a tureen, and put over them half 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, add three 
glasses of claret; place the cover on the 
tureen, and let it stand till next day. When 
required for use, put the tureen into ap>an of 
boiling water, press the oranges with a spoouk 
and run the juice through a sieve ; thai boil 
the remainder of the bottle of daret,, takii^ 



BLA 



23 



BLA 



that it doDoCtwro; add it tothestrain- 
«d juicey aod serve it warm in glames. 

BLANC. A mixture of butter, salt, 
water, and a slice of lemon; aliK) aa follows: 
— Cut a pound of beef suet, and the same of 
fet bacoQ into dice, half a pound of butter, 
the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, one or 
two onions, a hunch of parsley, a little thyme, 
a bay leaf and spice. 

BLANCMANGE. (1) To one ounce of 
picked isinglass, put a pint of water, boil it 
tin the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- 
namon ; put to it three-quarters of a pint of 
cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six 
bitter ones blanched and beaten, a bit of 
Jemon-peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, 
let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze in 
the jutoe of a lemon, aad put into moulds ; 
garnish to your &ncy. Blancmange may be 
colored green by adding spiuach-juioe ; red, 
by a bit of cochineal in brandy, lei it stand 
ludf an hour and strain it; yellow with 
saffron. 

BLANCMANGE. (2) Boil for a few 
minutes 'a pint and a half of new milk, with 
an ounce of picked isinglass (if in summer, 
one ounce and a quarter), the rind of half a 
lenK>n pe^ed very thin, a little cinnamon, 
and a blade of mace, and two and a half 
ounces of lump sugar: blanch and pound 
eight or ten bitter, and half an ounce of 
sweet almonds very fine, witii a spoonful of 
rose water, and mix tliem with tlie milk; 
strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into 
a basin, with half a pint of good cream. 
Let it stand Imlf an hour; pour it into 
another basin, leaving the sediment at the 
bottom, and when nearly cold fill it into 
inoolds; when wanted, put your finger round 
die mould; pull out the olancmange; set 
it in the centi^ of a dish, and gaiTiish 
with slices of orange. N. B. — About half a 
^ill of noyeau may be substituted for the al- 
monds. 

BLANCMANGE. (3) Boil till dissolv- 
ed, in a large tea-cupful of wa^er, three-quar^ 
ters of an ounce of isinglass ; when milk- 
warm, add it to a quart of rich cream, with a 
«tick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or 
three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar ; stir it 
over the fire, and let.it boil for two or three 
minutes ; strain it through a bit of muslin 
into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, 
then pour it into an earthen-ware mould or 
idiape ; the following day, dip the mould into 
warm water fi>r a minute or so, clap it with 
the hand to loosen die edge, place the glass 
or china dish pyer the mould, and turn it 
out quickly upon the dish. As much cow- 



heel stock as will half fill the shape may bi 
substituted for the itmglass. 

BLANCMANGE (4) Blanch and pound 
with a little ratafia, or roee-water, two 
ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dis- 
solve three-quarters of an ounce of isingbas ; 
add it, when milk-warm, to a qieurt of good 
cream ; half milk half cream may be uoed ; 
mix in the almonds the peel of a small lem- 
on, and a bit of cinnamon; s%veeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar, let it stand for two or 
three hours, put it into a saucepan, stir it 
constantly, and let it boil for six or eiglit 
minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and 
stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into a 
mould. 

BLANCMANGE. (5) Blanch and poimd 
one ounce of sweet almonds with a glass of 
sherr}', and a table-spooniiil of pounded loaf 
sugar ; <idd it to three-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass dissolved in hah* a pint of water, 
and boil it till the flavor of the almonds bo 
extracted, stirring it all the time ; strain it 
through a bit of Uiin muslin, and mix with 
it a quart of good cream ; stir it t^U quite 
cold, and poui' it into a slutpe. 

BLANCMANGE, AMERICAN. Mix 

half a pint of cold water with two ounces of 
arrowroot, let it settle for fifteen minutes^ 
pour off the water, and add a table-spoon- 
fill of laurel water, and a little sugar ; sweet- 
en a quart of new milk, bull it with a little 
cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; pick 
out tlie cinnamon and lemon, and pour the 
boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stirring it 
all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn 
it out the following day. 

BLANCMANGE, DUTCH. Wash one 
ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint 
and a half of boiling water over it, let it 
stand for an hour, and then boil it for twen- 
ty minutes; strain, and when it is nearly 
cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a 
pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one and 
juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinna^ 
mon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; 
stir it over the fire till it begin to simmer, 
but do not allow it to boil; pick out the 
peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin, 
stir it till neai'ly cold, and put it into a 
shape.. ^ 

BLANCMANGE EGGS. MakeasmaU 
hole at die end of four or five large egss, 
and let out all the e^ carefully ; wash me 
shell, drain, and fill mem with blancmange, 
place them in a deep dish filled with rice or 
oarley to keep them steady, and when quite 
cold, gently break and peel off the shell. 
Cut the peel of a lemon mto delicately <^^e 



BIS 



BIS 



laid on a clean baking-tin, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

T 

BISCUIT, POTATO, (2> Beat sepa- 
rately the yolks and whites of fifteen eggs, and 
with the yolks beat a pound of pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of a lem- 
on ; when very light add the whites, and sift in 
through a silk sieve half a pound of flour of 
potatoes; mix all lightly togetlier, half fill 
paper cases, and strew over them roughly 
pounded sugar, put a piece of paper upon a 
board, place the paper cases upon it, and 
bake them in a moderate oven. To ornament 
tliem, put here and there upon the top a 
little red-currant jelly, and serve them. 

BISCUITS, THE QUEEN'S. Take 
a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a 
half of fine sugar, the whites of^ twenty-four, 
and the yolks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- 
ander ai&sdi beaten small at discretion; mix 
these well together, and make them into a 
soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay 
this paste on paper, or in crusts about two 
inches broad, and fi>ur inches long, set them 
in a mod'uate oven, and when Uiey begin 
to turn brown, take them out, and lay tliem 
on paper, in a dry place. 

BlSCtrrrS, rice. Take the grated 
rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggp, 
the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, 
ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of 
apple, and the same of apricot, mai'malade, 
and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound 
the marmalades and orange-flowers tbgetlier, 
then add the whites of egg?, whipped to a 
■now; beat the yolks with the sugar for a 
quaiter of an hour, put them to tlie rest, and 
when well mixed in, add tile lemon-peel and 
rice-flour ; work all together, pour the pr^ 
aration into paper cases, bake them in a 
moderate oven,, and glaze them. 

BISCUITS, SMALL. Make a paste 
with a quarter of a pound of flour, three 
spoonfuls of fine powder sugar, and the same 
of marmalade ; add whites of eggs to woik 
it pretty soft; and make this paste to what 
shape and size you please. 

BISCUITS, SPUNGE. Beat together, 
tor half an hour, four well-beaten eggs, and 
half a pound of finely-poujded loaf sugar; 
llien mi^ in lightly six ounces of dried and 
sifted flour, and the grated peel of a lemon, 
or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a 
table-spoonful of rose water. Flour the 
pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded 
nigar over them. Bake tliem in a quick oven. 

BISCUITS, ST. CLOUD. Sift two 
cuDoei of rioe-fiour thixHigba tammy into 1Q3 



eartnen pan, with lialf a pound of powder 
sugar, the yolks of four egg^, and a little 
green lemon grated ; beat tliem up together 
for a quarter of an hour: whisk the whites 
of eight eggs to a froth and mix them witb 
the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or 
paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done take tliem from tlie mould while 
hot, and ice them in the following manner: 
beat up half the white of an egg and two 
spoonfuls of powder-«ugar with a woodeo 
spoon, add occasionally a few drops of lem- 
on-juice ; wlien it becomes quite white lay ft 
over the biscuits;, and place them in the oven 
a minute to diy. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (1) The weight of 
eight e^ in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and 
of^ four in dried flour ; beat separately the 
whites and yolks ; with the yolks beat the 
sugar for haJf an hour, then add the whites 
and the flour, and a little grated nutmegs 
lemon-peel, or pounded cinnamon. Bake 
them in yeHow tea-cups, or drop them upoo 
paper,-as the French biscuits. 

BISCUIT, SUGAR. (2) Mix together 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, the same 
quantity of pounded and sifted IcKaf sugar, 
ten weO-beaten eggs, and a few pounded 
cloves. Drop this upon floored tins, and 
bake it. 

BISCUIT, SWEET. One pound of 
flour, half a pound of butter, the same quan- 
tity of finely-pounded sugar, and two egga^ 
without being beaten; make it all into a 
vei^ stiff paste with cool watS*, roll it out, 
and[ to form the biscuits, roll a bit of the 
paste into a ball about the size of the yolk 
of an egg, flatten it a little, and place tnene 
upon tins to bake. 

BISCUITS, YARMOUTH. Pick and 
wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, 
rub a little flour with them, and put then» 
with half a pound of powder-su^r, tliree- 
quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half 
a pound of fi'esh butter ; mix tliem into a 
paste with three eggs, roll it out to the 
thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut them 
into what shapesyou please. Bake them of 
a light color in a hot oven. 

BISHOP. Roast four sood-«ized bittet 
oranges till they are oCii pale brown color; 
lay them in a tureen, and put over them half 
a pound of pounded loaf sugar, ai^d three 
glasses of claret; place the cover on the 
tureen, and let it stand till next day. When 
required for use, put the tureen into a pan of 
boiling water, press the oranges with a spoou. 
and run the juice through a sieve; then belli 
the remainder of the bottle of daret^ taking 



BLA 



23 



BLA 



tuvlhat it do not bum; add it to (he strain- 
•d jaioe, and serve it warm in glasses. 

BLANC. A mixture of butter, salt, 
water, and a slice of lemon ; also as follows: 
— Cut a pound of beef suet, and the same of 
bt bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, 
die juice of a lemon, salt aiid pepper, one or 
two onions, a bunch of parsley, a uttle thyme, 
a bay leaf and spice. 

BLANCMANGE. (1) Tooneoonceof 
picked isinglass, put a pint of water, boil it 
till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- 
namon; put to it three-quaiters of a pint of 
cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six 
bitter ones blanched and beaten, a bit of 
lemon-peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, 
let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze in 
the jaioe of a lemon, and put into moulds ; 
garnish to your &ncy. Blancmange may be 
colored green by adding spiuach-juice ; red, 
by a bit (^cochineal in brandy, lei it stand 
half aa hour &ad strain it; yelbw with 
safiron. 

BLANCMANGE. (2) Boil for a few 
minutes 'a pint and a half of new milk, with 
an ounce of picked isinglass (if in summer, 
one ounce and a quarter), the rind of lialf a 
lemon peded very thin, a litdc cinnamon, 
and a blade of mace, and two and a half 
ounces of lump sugar: blancU and pound 
eight or tea bitter, and half an ounce of 
sweet almonds veiy fine, with a spoonful of 
rose water, and mix them with the milk; 
strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into 
a basin, with half a pint of good cream. 
Let it stand half an hour; pour it into 
another basin, leaving the sediment at the 
bottom, and when nearly cold fill it into 
moulds; when wanted, put your finger round 
die mould; pull out the olancmange; set 
it in the centi^ of a- dish, and garnish 
with slices of orange. N. B. — ^About half a 
^11 of noyeau may be substituted for the al- 
monds. 

BLANCMANGE. (3) Boil till dissolv- 
ed, in a large tea-cupful of wa^cr, three-quar- 
ters of an ounce of isinglass ; when milk- 
warm, add it to a quart of rich cream, with a 
stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, two or 
three laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it 
over the fire, and let, it boil for two or three 
miiHites ; strain it through a bit of muslin 
into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold, 
then pour it into an earthen-ware mould or 
shape ; the following day, dip the n^ould into 
warm water for a minute or so, clap it with 
die hand to loosen the edge, place the glass 
or china dish Qver the mould, and turn it 
out qoickly upon the dish. As much cow- 



heel stock as will half fill the shape may bi 
substituted for the ismglass. 

BLANCMANGE. (4) Blanch and poood 
with a little ratafia, or rose-water, two 
ounces of sweet, and six bitter almonds ; dis- 
solve three-quarters of an ounce of isinfflass ; 
add it, when milk-warm, to a quart ol good 
cream; half milk half cream may be i»ed; 
mix in the almonds the peel of a small lem- 
on, and a bit of cinnamon ; sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar, let it stand for two or 
three hours, put it into a saucepan, stir it 
constantly, and let it boil for six or eight 
minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, ^id 
stir it till nearly cold, then pour it into a 
mould. 

BLANCMANGE. (6) Blanch and pmmd 
one ounce of sweet almonds with a fflass of 
sherr}', and a table-spoonfiil of pounded loaf 
sugar ; add it to three-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass dissolved in halt* a pint of water, 
and boil it till the fiavor of the almonds bo 
extracted, stirring it all the time ; strain it 
dirough a bit of thin muslin, and mix with 
it a quart of good cream ; stir it till quits 
cold, and pour it into a shape. 

BLANCMANGE, AMERICAN. Mix 
half a pint of cold water with two ounces of 
arrowroot, let it settle for fifteen minutes* 
pour off the water, and add a table-qxx>n- 
ful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweet- 
en a quart of new milk, boil it with a little 
cinnamon, and half the peel of a lemon ; pick 
out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the 
boiling milk upon the arrow-root, stirring it 
all die time. Put it into a mould, and turn 
it out the following day. 

BLANCMANGE, DUTCH. Wash one 
ounce and a half of isinglass, pour a pint 
and a half of boiling water over it, let it 
stand for an hour, and then boil it for twen- 
ty minutes; strain, and when it is nearly 
cold, add the beaten yolks of six eggs, a 
pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of one and 
juice of two lemons, with a stick of cinna- 
mon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; 
stir it over the fire till it begin to simmer, 
but do not allow it to boil; pick out the 
peel and cinnamon, pour it into a basin^ 
stir it till neai% cold, and put it into a 
shape. « 

BLANCMANGE EGGS. Makeasmafl 
hole at the end of four or five large eggs, 
and let out all the egg carefiilly ; wash the 
shell, drain, and fill them with blancmange, 
place them in a deep dish filled with rice or 
barley to keep them steady, and when quite 
cold, gendy break and peel off the shell. 
Cut tM peel of a lemon mto delicately ^^e 



BRA 



24 



BRE 



itirQc|8« lay tbem into a gkun dish, aod put 
in the ^28 ; or serve them in a glass dish 
with a pmk cream round them* 

BLACK COCK, MOOR GAME, AND 
GROUSil, Are all to be dressed like par- 
tridges ; the black cock will take as much 
as a [Pleasant, and moor game and grouse 
as the partridge. Send up- with them cur- 
rant-jeUy and fried bread crumbs. 

BOILING. See directions at beginning 
of the book. 

BOLAR CAKE. See Cake. 

BRANDY PUDDING. See Pudding, 

BRAISING FAN. A deep wdl-tioned 
copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which 
must close hermetically, and have a ledse 
round so that coals or hot ashes may be 
placed on the top when necessary. 

BjEUISING. This is a method of 
A^cssing meat, poultry, &c. &c. without its 
undergoing any evap(Mration. It is done by 
lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, 
beef, or veal, upon which place whatever 
you may intend to 6raue, and also add 
carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbe, 
pepper and salt. 

BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, 
icrape, and clean voy thoroughl^r a lai^ pig's 
besui, feet, and ears^ lay them into salt and 
water, with a little ealtpetre, for three hours. 
To make the collar lai^;er, boil two ox heels, 
with the head, feet, and ears, till all the 
bones can be taken out easily, then put the 
bead round the mould, and tfaie feet and smaU 
pieces into the middle ; put it together while 
not, and press it with a heavy weight till it 
becomes cold. Boil for half an hour, in as 
much of the liquor as will covo* the brawn, 
one handfiil of salt, one ounce of p^per, 
and one or two bay leaves. When cold, 
pour it over the brawn. 

BRAWN, MOCK. Take the blade bone 
out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two 
hours or more, according to the age of the 
boar. When it is cold, season it very high- 
ly with pepper, Cayenne, salt, a very little 
allspice, mmced onion, and thyme. Let it 
lie a night in this seasoning; the following 
day, joake a savoury forcemeat of pounded 
veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, 
and an onion, a little lemon-peel, sah, nut- 
meg, pei^jer, and Cayenne ; bind it with an 
e§^ beaten, and stuff where the bone has 
been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with 
the brown side downwards, and lay under it 
twigs or smaU sticks, to keep it from stick- 



I ing to the bottom ; pour ki a bottle of beer, 
and put it into the oven. When nearly done, 
take it out and clear off all the fiit, add a 
bottle of Madeira and the juice of a large 
lemon, return it to the oven, and bake it till 
it become as tendor as a jelly, so that m 
straw will pierce it easily. It the boar ii 
an old one, it will require to be baked six or 
seven hours. Hiis d»h is eaten hot. 

BRAWN, TO BAKE. Take mw lean 
bravim, and the same quantity of iat bacon, 
mince them small, then pound them in a 
stone mortar, with a handfol of sage, season- 
ed with salt, pqiper and fpn^, add tlM» 
yolks of eggs, and some vmesar, then pot 
the brawn mto a cold paste, lay on butter 
and bay leaves, make your pie nomid and 
bake it. To be eaten cold. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. See Cake. 

BREAD. (I) Put a quartern of flour into a 
larse basin, with two tea-epoonfols of salt; 
make a hole in the middle; then put in m 
basin four table-spoonfuls of good yeast; stir- 
in a pint of milk, lukewarm; put it ki^the 
hole of the floor; stir it just to make it into 
a thin batter; then sUrew a little flour over 
the top; then put it on one side of the 
fire, and cover it over; let it stand till the- 
next morning ; then make it into dough ; add 
half a pint more of warm milk ; knead it 
for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm 
place by the fire for one hour and a half: 
then knead it again, and it is ready either 
for loaves or bricks: bake them from one 
hour and a half to two hours according U> 
the size. 

BREAD. (2) Mix into six pounds of siOed 
flour one ounce of salt, nearly half a pint of 
fi^esh sweet yeast as it comes from the Im^w- 
ery, and a sufficient quantity of warmed milk 
to make the whole into a stiff doug^; wrark 
and knead it well upon a pasteboard, chi 
which a little flour has been strewed, for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, then put it into a 
deep pen, cover it with a wanned towd, set 
it before the fire, and let it rise for an hour 
and a half, or perhaps two hours; cut off a 
piece of this spon^ or dough ; knead it well 
for eight or ten minutes, together with flour 
merely sufficient to keep it from adhering to 
the board ; put it into small tins, filling ihem 
three-quarters foil; dent the rolls all round 
wilh a knife, and let them stand a few min- 
uleCi before putting them into the oven. 
The rranainder of the domjh must dien be 
worked up for loaves, and baked either in 
or out of a shape. 

BREAD, ALMOND. Takeapoond^ 
the best ahnonds, slice them the round way 



BRE 



25 



BRE 



%Ht and siftapoiiDdof doiAJe-refinedflagv, 
and screw it avtr the almondi as you cut 
tliem^ stirring tfien frequently to prefeat their 
aticking together; whoa all tne^ugar is UMd, 
put them into an earthen faaain, with a few 
carrawa^ aeeds, a little cum dragon (dia> 
flolved in rose-water ana strained), three 
cnuDB of mak and ambenrris diMolved ia 
fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten 
ta a vei7 tight froth, and two qxioDfiils of 
fine flour; when weR mixed lay them on 
wafers the siae of macaroons; open tbeoa 
with a knife or bodkin, lest two or Aree 
pieces stick together; the quicker you lay 
them, the better they will kiok; put them 
into a wdtbeated oven, taking ears they do 
not scorch; when half baked, take them out, 
wash them with the white of an egg beaten 
Co a ijrolfa, gratealittle fine sugar over them, 
and bake them about half an Imnit longer. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

BREAD, CHESTNUT. Roast a hun- 
dred feie dMstnuts, being carefiil not to 
faam tibem; ped them welC and pound them 
with batter and double cream; pa« them 
through a sieve; add two egg8,^and then 
strain diem again. Weish your paste, and 
far every pound, aOow naif a pound of 
powd^, a little vanilla in powder, and two 
ounces of flour; mix these tog^ber, and 
Ibrm of the preparation as many chestnuts 
as it will make; lay them on a sheet of 
wafer paper, butter, and dorez them seve- 
ffal times, and then bake them in a hot oven. 

BREAD CHEESECAKES. SUce a 
iarse Fivench roll very thin, pour on it some 
faouinF cream ; when cold, aidd six or eight 
«gg8, naif a pound of butter melted, some 
nutmeg, a q[)oonful of brandy, a Uttle sugar, 
and half a pound of currants. Put them ia 
' puff paste as other cheesecakes. 

BREAD, TO SERVE .WITH COF- 
FEE. Whip up the whifis of ten ^gs to 
a. thick snow; add to them the yolks b^Ucn 
jwitfa eight ounces (^ powdtar-sogar, place it 
over a charcoal fire, and whip it for half an 
hour, then take it from the fire, and whip 
again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of 
sifted flour. Have ready buttered two 
immlds lined with paper, pour the paste in- 
to them, and bake thm in a moderate oven ; 
when done, take them out of the moulds and 
remove the paper; when cold, cut them ia 
slices about the size of a finger. Place tbem 
on a plate oi co|;^xt, over a charcoal fire, 
. and when one side is brown, turn them and 
brown the other side. These if kept diy 
will be good for a long time. 

8 



BREAD CRUMBS, FRIED. RdbbreU 
that has been baked two days, through aa 
iron sieve or cullender ; not Ihem into a slew^ 
pan with two ounres <Mrbut<cr; phuse it over 
a moderate fire, and stir them with a wooden 
spoon till of a fine goU eohir; spread them 
on a sieve, and let them stand ten minrtea 
to drain, turning them oAeik 

BREAD, FRENCH. lUcahalfabnhel 
(or six pounds) of flour, pu| it on the slab, 
mdce a hole in the centre, in which put two 
ounces of yeast; make your doqghwitn warm 
water, to about the consittaice of Mockt; 
work it up well, addii^^ two ounees of salt, 
dissolved in a little warm water; oover,and 
set it in a warm place to rise; on this part 
of the operation oraends (he quality of the 
bread. Havin^^ left the dough one or two 
hours, (accoidin^ to the season), knead k 
again, and leave it as b^>re, fix* two htvra. 
In the meanwhile, heat the oven, divide the 
dough into eight equal parts, of which form 
as many loaves, into any shape you please; 
put them urto the oven as quickly as pnasible. 
As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with 
a little butter, which will give it a fine yelk>w 
cc^w. 

BREAD. FRENCH, OR ROLLS. 
Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted 
flour, knead it into do«^, with two quarts 
of milk, three^uarters ota, pound of warm 
buttor, half a pound of yeast, and two punces 
of salt; when the whole is well wwked up, 
eovo:, and leave it to rise. In two houis 
time, form it into rolls, and lay them on 
tinned pUtes. Place tfa«n in a slow oven. 
When they have been in an hour, put them 
into a very hot oven for twen^ minutep. 
Rasp them as soon as they are baked. 

BREAD FRITTERS. BoU half a pint 
of milk till reduced to half, with a bttle 
sugar, salt, h^a spoonfiil of orange-flower 
water, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; 
have ready some pieces of crumb o( bread. 
Cat about the size of half-crowns, but thicker ; 
put them into the milk to soak a little, then 
drain, flour, and, fry them. Glaze them with 
si^gar, and pam the salamander over than. 

BREAD, LONDON. To make London 
bread, put a bushel of good flour which has 
been ground a month or six weeks, in one 
end of the trough, and make a hole in the 
middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm 
water, and mix it with one quart of good 
ycAst; put it into the flour, and stir it well 
with your hands ; let it remain until it risei 
as high as it will go, which wiU take about 
an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefiilly 
to its ultimate hoigbt, and do not suffer it to 



BRE 



26 



BRE 



fatl; then make up tlie dough whh ei^t 
quarts more of warm water and one pound 
of salt; work it well witli your hands, and 
then cover it over with a sacK or other coarse 
cloth. Put the fire into the oven; heat it 
thoroughly} and by tlie time it i» hot, the 
dough wiU be ready. Next make the dough 
into loaves, not exceeding four or five pouiras 
each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in 
the loaves. Shut the oven ck)se, and the^ 
will be baked in about two hours and a half; 
then open the oven, and draw the bread. In 
summer the water need not be more than 
blood warm, but in winter it must be a few 
degrees higher in heat. During a hard 
frost, however, the water should be as hot as 
the hand could beu: it, ^ougfa not sufficiently 
hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil 
the whole batch of br^. Other quantities 
of biead are made in the same proportion. 

BREAD, PLAIN SHORT. The same 
proportions of flour and bottw must be used 
as m the receipt for short bread ; this must 
be mixed tcwether, rolled out, but not made 
quite so thick as in the rich kind ; but in the 
same form, pricked with a fork, and pinch- 
ed all round. "A little sugar may be added. 

BREAD, RICE. Take a pound of rice, 
and let it simmer in two quarts of water till 
it is quite tender; when it is of a proper 
warmdi mix it thoroughly with four pounds 
of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as 
for other bread ; the proper quantity of yeast 
to be used, is about four spoonfuls ; kneeid it 
well; then set it to rise before tlie fire. A 
portion of the flour should be reserved to 
make up the loaves. If the rice should re- 
quire more water, it mustbe^dded, assonse 
rice swells more dian other. ^ 

BREAD, SPICED, COMMON. (1) 
Boil three pounds of honey in a gallon of 
water for a quarter of an hour; than pour it 
on the flour in tlie trough ; mix them together 
well, until the flour will imbibe no mo>.« li- 
quid ; when a little cooled, add three ounces 
of potash, infused the night before in half a 
pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting 
to it some pounded anise. Roll out the 
paste, and with paste-cuttov of vs^rious forms, 
cut it into little figures, lay them on a well- 
oiled tin, and bake them ; when done, wash 
them over with milk. With this paste 
spiced nuts are made ; when fwmed, lay them 
on tins, and leave in a warm place for two 
or three days before th^ are baked. 

BREAD, SPICED, (2) FLEMISH. 

The evening before you wish to make 
jonr spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of 
white potash in half a pint of milk, and set 
it aside. The next morning put a consider- 



able (jpiantity of siiled flour into a trougFi^ 
make a hole in the heap, into which pour six \ 

pounds of clarified honey ; whilst boiling, stir i 

It well with a strong spatula, until tlie houeyy i 

reduced to a fiim paste, wiH imbibe no moiv i 

flour, then spread it all over the bottom of 
the trough, and leave it for about ten or fiA 
teen minutes ; at the end of that time, if the 
paste be sufficiently cool for you to bear your 
hand on it, rub its sur&ce with the infiisioa 
of potash ; then let a sti'ong person knead it,, 
in the same manner as the bakers knead 
bread. Have ready a number of different- 
sized moulds of pear tree wood, on which 
are cut (pretty deep) octagons of various di- 
mensions; then cut your paste into as many 
pieces as you have moulds, in the following 
proportions: — for the mould containing a 
pound, take eighteen ounces of paste; for a 
half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of 
a pound seven ounces of paste, and so on ; 
knead each piece separately on the slab, rub 
them with flour to prevent their adhering, and 
then put tiiem into die respective mculds; 
press It down tight ; in a minute or two turn 
them over, place them on a tin plate (fMre- 
vionsly rubbed with olive oil), and with a 
sofl brush take off wliat flour may remain 
on the surfoce of the spiced bread, and bake  
them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are . 
baking, dissolve some isinglass inasuffioicnC .^ - 
qnanti^ of beer, with which, by means of '^):- 
a hair pencil, wash the outside of tlie spiced ^''^■>vi. 
bread as soon as it is done; and then, whiil^'lfc^xA 
it is moist and warm, decorate it w^^j^l^i^ . 
blanched abnonds, candied lemon and oraf^e^'-. . "'^■ 
peelf cut into dice* Yob may, if you thki^i- 
proper, cut tliese sort of sweet meats into 
very small pieces, and knead tliem into yonr 
paste at first. When tiiey are nearly cold, 
separate the pieces with a knife. 

BREAD, SHORT. For fwa poundsof 
sifted flour allow one pound of butter, salt or 
fresh ; a quarter of a pound of candied orangi» 
and lemon ped, of pounded kmf sugar, 
blanched sweet almontk, and carraway com- 
fits, a quarter of a fiound eadi ; cut the lem* 
on, die orange peel, and almond» into small 
thin bits, and mix them with a pound and a 
half of die flour, a few of the caraway com- 
fits, and tlie susai* ; melt tlie butter, and when 
cool, pour it cfear from die sediment into the 
flour, at the same time mixing it quickly. 
With the hands, form it into a large roimd 
of nearK- an inch thick, using the ronainder 
of the frour to make it up with ; cut it in- 
to four, and with die finger and thumb pinch 
each bit neatly all round the edge ; prick them 
with a fork, and strew the rest <k the carra- 
way comfits over the top. Put the pieoei 
upon white paper dusted with flour, and 
then upon tins. Bake them in a moderate 
oven. 



BRO 



27 



BRO 



BREAD, TIPSY. Pare off the cn!st, 
uid cut into diin round slices of four or five 
inches, the crumb of a twopenny or three- 
peony roll ; spread o%'er eacn bit raspberry 
■or Btrawbaiy jam, and place the slices one 
over the other pretty hi^ in a glass dish, 
and pnor over them as much sherry, sweeten- 
ed with sugar, as tiie bread will soak in; 
«tick round the sides, and over the top, 
blanched sweet almonds, cat like straws, and 
pots' a custard round it. It may be made 
the day before, or two or three htaun before 
dioner, and with the crmnb of Joaf bread. 

BREAD SAUCE. Ste Sauea. 

BRENTFORD ROLLS. Mix widi 
two pounds of flour a little salt, two (umces 
of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and 
tw^o ^gs b(»ten with two spoonfuls of yeast, 
and about a pint of milk; Knead the dooffh 
well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 
tivelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them 
tieibre the fire agria to rise. When of a 
proper size, bake them for half an hoar. 

BRIOCHE. Divide half a c^uartem of 
flour into three parts, and knead mto one of 
them half an ounce of yeast and a little warm 
water, wrap it in a duth and set it by, in 
summer time for a qaarter of an horn*, and 
in winter for a whole hour. When it has 
risen, put it to the remainder of the fiour, 
with a pound and a half of butter, ten ^gs, 
half a glass of water, and nearly an ounce 
of salt; knead tliem together with your hand 
thoroughly, and then wrap it in a dean nap- 
kin and leave it nine <»* ten hours. Qit 
the paste into the size you wish to make the 
cakes, moisten, and roll them in the hand, 
flatten the top, and gild them widi die 
^olk of an e%%. Half an hour will be 
sufficient to bake the small ones; loi^e 
cakes will require an hour and a half. 

' BROILING. See directions at begiu- 
niiig of die book. 

BROCCOLI. Set a pan of dean cold 
water on the table, and a saucepan on the 
fire with pSenty of water, and a liandfiil of 
6ait in it. Broccoli is prq>arcd by stripping 
off all the side shoots, leaving the top; peel 
off the skin of the stalk with a knife ; cut it 
close off at the bottom, and put it into the 
pan of cold water. When the water in the 
stewpan boils, and the broccoli is ready, 
put It in; let it boil briskly till the stalks 
^1 tender, firom ten to twenty minutes; take 
it up with a slice, that you may not Ix-eak it; 
let it di'ain, and serve up. If some of the 
heads of broccoli are much bigger than the 
odiers, pot them on to boil first, so that they 
Biay get all done together. Obt, — ^It makes 



a nice nfpper<4lish sert-ed tipoo a tOMt, Kke 
aspai*:igiif . It is a ^ery delicate vegetable, 
and you must take it up the mooHnt it m 
done, and send it to tabw hot. 

BROTH, BARLEY. Chop a kg of 
beef in pieces, boil it in three galkxis uf 
water, with a carrot and a crust of bread, 
till reduced to half; then strain it off and 
put it into the pot again with half a poond 
of barley, four or five heads of celei^ eut 
small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a 
little chopped parsley, and a fcw marigolds. 
Let it boil an Dour. Take an old cock or 
large fowl and pot it into the pot, boil tiO 
the broth is quite good. Season with salt, 
take out the onion and herbi, and w&n% it. 
The fowl may be omitted. 

BROTH, OF BEEF. Wadb a leg or 
shin of beef very clean, crack the bone m 
two or three plafies, add to it any trim- 
mings you have of meat, game, or poukiy 
(heads, necks, gizzards or feet) anci cover 
than with cold water. Watdi and stir it 
op well firom the bottom, and the moment it 
begins to simmer, skim it carefiiUy. Your 
broth must be perfectly clear and limpid— 
for on this depends the goodness of the 
soups, sauces, and gravies, of n^iidi it is 
the basis. Then add some cold water to 
make the remainiifg scorn rise, and skim 
it again. Whoi the scorn has done rising, 
and the surfooe of the broth is quite dear, 
p8t in one carrot, a head of celery, two 
turnips, and two (mions. It should not 
liave any taste of sweet herbs, spice or gar- 
lic; eidier of these flav(»« may be added 
afterward, if desired. Cover it dose, set it 
by the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
very gently, so as not to waste the broth, 
for four or five hoars or more, according to 
the wei^t of the meat. Strain it thrmigh 
a sieve mto a dean and dry stone pan, and 
set it in the coldest place you have. 

ICP I'h" is die foondatbn of all sorts 
of soups and sauces, Inrown and white. 

BROTH, CHICKEN. Take the re- 
maining paits of a chicken fit>m which 
panada has been made, all but the rump; 
skin, and put, them into the virater it was 
first boiled in, with the addition of a little 
mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and 
simmer it. When of a good flavor, put to 
it 9 quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds 
beaten with a spoonfiil of water; boil it 
a little while, and when cold, take off the 
fet. 

BROTH, CHICKEN PECTORAL. 
Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and 
put it into a saucepan with two pints and a 
half of water, two ounces of peari barley. 



BRO 



28 



BRO 



die saane ofrioe, and two ounces of thebeitt 
honey ; boil all together, skimming well for 
three hours, until it be reduced to two^thirds. 

BROTH, JELLY. Take a joint of mut- 
ton, a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts 
**{ water ; put these into an earthen pan, and 
boil them over a gentle fire tiH reduced to 
half; tliea squeeze all together, and strain 
the liquor through a napkin. 

broth; MUTTON. Take two pounds 
of scrag of mutton ; to take the bkxxl out, 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it with 
cold wat«*; when rbe water becomes milk- 
warm, pour it ofi*; then put it in four or five 
pints of water, with a tea-epoonfiil of salt, a 
table-spoonfiil of best ar'tta, and an onion ; set 
it 00 a slow fire, and when you have taken 
all the scum off, put in two or three tumips ; 
let it simmer very slowly for two hours, and 
strain it through a dean sieve. 

BROTH, MUTTON, FOR THIESICK^ 
Have a pound and a half of a neck or loin 
of mutton; take off the akin and the &t, and 
put it into a saucepan ;. cover it with cold 
water, (it witt take about a quart to a pound 
of meat), let it simmer very gently, and 
skim it well; cover it up, and set it over a 
moderate fire, where it may stand ^tly 
stewing for about an hour ; then strain it off. 
It should be allowed to become cold, whoi 
all the greasy particles wi9 float on the sur- 
fiice, and becoming hard, can be easily 
taken off, and the settlings will, remain at 
llie bottom. N. B. — ^We direct the meat to 
be done no more dian just sufficient^ to be 
eaten ; so a sick man may have pknity of 
good broth for nothing; as fay this manner 
of producing it, the meat fiirnishes also a 
good famUy meal. This is an inoffensive 
Bouridunent for sick persons, and the only 
mutton broth that should be given to conva- 
lescents, whose constitutions riequire replen- 
ishing witli restorative aliment of easy dU 
gestion. The common way of making it 
with roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c. &c. is 
too strong for weak stomachs. Plain broth 
will agree with a delicate stomach, v/hea 
the least addition of other ingredients would 
immediately otE&ad it. 

BROTH, MEAGRE, or Souf with 
Herbs. Set on a kettle of vrater, put in 
two or three crusts of bread, and all Borta of 
good herbs ; season with salt ; put in butter, 
and a bunch of sweet hei*bs ; boil it for an 
hour and a half: then strain it through a 
sieve, or napkin. This will serve to make 
lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup de umte. 
Ice. with herbs. 

BROTH» MULLAGATAWNY> OR 



CURRY. Make about two quarts ofstroi^ 
veal broth, seasoned with two onions, a 
bunch of parsley, salt, and pepper; strain it, 
and have reac^ a chicken, cut in joints an<f 
skinned; put it into the broth, wi^ a table-' 
spoonfol of curry-powder ; boil the cbickeo 
kill quite tender, and a little before serving,, 
add the juice of a lemon, and stir in a te&- 
eupfo) of cream, ^erve boiled rice to eat 
with this broth. 

BROTH, RICE YEAL. Wash clean 
six pounds of a knuckle of vea^ and cut it 
in two, put it in a saucepan with four quarts 
of boiling water, half a pound of rice well 
washed-, a little r^ace, white peppec, an<l 
salt, and a handfol of chopped farsley ; let 
it boil for two hours. Sene part of the 
meat in the tureen with the broth'. The 
thick psot of the knuckle may be sent upr 
as a separate dish, with parsky and butter 
poured over it. 

BROTH, WHITE. Boi) a fowl, and 
when it is enou^,take it up, and put it into 
a dish ; then boil your cream with a blade of 
mace, and thicken it with eggs ; then put in* 
the marrow of one beef bone,, and take some 
of the broth, and mingle them toaetho* ; put to 
it a spoonfiil of white wine, and let it diidc" 
en on the fire ; then put the fowl hot out of 
the broth, set it on a chafing^-dish of coals,, 
and serve it. 

BROWN ROUX, OR THICKENING. 
Put into a nicely tinned saucepan about a 
pound of fiiesh butto*, melt it skywly, and 
dredge ia flour tiB it becomes like a paste,. 
earemUy stirring it aU the time,, put it for 
a few minutes upon a quick fire, and thei» 
return 'it to whoie there is less heat, and 
stir it tiU it assumes a Ug^t brown color» 
when it may be put into a jar. These' 
thickoaingB keep foir sometime. 

BROWNING, Is a convenient article 
to color tliose soups or sauces of which it i» 
supposecf their deep brown complexion de- 
notes the strength and savouriness of the 
composition. Burned sugar is also a fa- 
vorite ingredient with the brewers, who use 
it under the name of '^essentia bina*' to col- 
or their beer: it is also en^loyed by the bran- 
dy makers, in considerable quantity, to color 
brandy ; to which, besides enrichkig its com- 
plexion, it gives that s^^eetish taste, and fiil- 
ness in the mouth, which custom has taught 
brandy drinkers to admire, and pi;eGsr to 
the finest Cognac in its genuine state. What 
^i^loyed for culinary purposes, this is some- 
times made with strong gravy, or walnol. 
catchup. Those who luce a gout of acid 
may add a little walnut pickle. Put lialf 
a pound of pounded lump sugsr^andatabl*^ 



BtJNS 



29 



BUNS 



«pooiifid of water, into a clean irai nooe- 
paiiy set it over a slow fire, and keep itir- 
ring it with a woodm spoon till it becomes 
a bright brown color, and b^tns to smoke ; 
then add to it an ounce of salt, and dilute it 
hj degrees widi water, till it is the thick- 
neas of soy; let it boil, take off the scum, 
and strain the liquor into bottles, which 
must be well stopped: if you have not any 
of this by you, and you wish to darken the 
color of your sances) pound a tea-spo(Hifiil 
of lamp aogar, and put it into an iron spoon, 
with as much water as wiU dissolve it; 
hold it over a quick fire till it becomes of a 
very dark brown color; mix it with the 
aoup, &c. while it is hot. 

BRUNSWICK TART. See Tart, 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS TO BOIL. 
Trim and wash them perWly clean, and 
let them lie an hour in cold water. Put 
them on in boiline water, with a little salt, 
cmd boil them tul tender. Drain off tlie 
water, and serve them hot. 

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Chop small 
some boiled white cabbage ; season it with 
pef^r and salt, and €ry it with a little butter ; 
pepper and broil some slices of cold boiled 
salted beef; put the fried cabbage into a dish, 
and lay round it the slices of broiled beef, 
and serve it very hot. The beef does best 
when underdone. 

BUNS, BATH. Rub toother, with 
the hand, one pound of fine fioiu* and a half 
a pound of butter; beat six eggs, and add 
them to the fiour with a tskAe spooufiil of good 
yeast. Mix them all together with half a tea- 
cup full of milk ; set it in a warm place for 
an boar ; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds. Mould them in- 
. to buns witha table spoon on a bakingplate; 
throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, 
and bake them in a hot oven about ten min- 
utes. These quantities should make eiglit- 
een buns. 

BUNS, COMMON. Rub four ounces of 
butter into two pounds of fiour, four ounces 
of sugar, a few Jamaica peppers, and a few 
carraway seeds. Put a spoonfiil or two of 
cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good 
milk as will make the above into a Ug^t 
paste; set it by the fire to rise. They will 
oake quickly on tins ; you may add nutmeg. 

BUNS, CROSS. To the above mix- 
tare put one ounce and a half of ground all- 
spice, cinnamon and mace, mixed, and when 
half proved, 'press the fcnnm of a cross with 
a tin mould in the centre, and finish as 
above 

8* 



BUNS, PLUM. To two mMb of the 
l^in ban paste, pot half a poand of coRmnti, 
a Quarter of a pound of candied orai|ge- 
peel, cot mto small pieces, half a nutmeg 
grated, half an ounce of mixed spioe, socb 
as aO^toe, cinnamon, Ate. Moula then in- 
to buns, iag them round the edges wtib a 
knife, ma proceed as above. 

BUNS, PLAIN. TofoarnomKlsofsift. 
ed flour put one pound of gooa moist sasar; 
make a cavity in the centre, and stir u a 
gill of good yeast, a pint of lukewarm milk, 
with enoogfa of the flour to make it the thick- 
ness of cream; cover it over, and let it lie 
two hours; then melt to an oil (but not hot) 
one pound of butter, stir it into the other in- 
^redioots, with enoi^ warm milk to make 
It a sdt paste ; throw a littte floor over, and 
let them lie an hour; have ready a baking- 
platter rabbed over with butter ; moukl wttti 
the hand the dough into buns, about the 
size of a large egg; lay them in rows fiill 
three inches apart ; set tnem in a warm place 
for half an hour, or till they have risen to 
double their size; bake them in a hot oven 
of a good color, and wash them over with 
a bruw dipped into milk when drawn firom 
the oven. 

BUNS, RICHER. Pot four poondi of 
fine floor into a wooden bowl ; set a spoi^ 
of it with a gill of yeast and a pint of 
warm milk ; then mix with it one poond of 
sifted sogar, one pound of oiled fiiesh butter, 
coriander seeds, cmnamon, and mace, a small 
quantity of each, pounded fine. Roll the 
paste into buns, set them on a baking-pbite 
rubbed With butter, put tliem in a moderate 
oven to prove ; then wash them with a paste- 
brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a 
good color. 

BUNS, SCOTS CHRISTMAS. Take 
four pounds of raisins stoned, two and a half 
of currants well cleaned and dried, half a 
pound of eJmonds blanched, of candied (N*ange 
and lemon-peel a quaiter of a pound each, 
cut snudl ; of pounded cloves, pepper, and 

ginger, half an ounce each, four pounds of 
our, and twenty-two <Mnices of butter. 
Then rub the butter with the flour, till well 
mixed together; add a little warm water, 
and a quarter of a pint of fi'esh good yeast, 
and wcdc it into a lijriit smooth paste; cut 
off nearly one-third of the paste, to form the 
sheet or case, and lay it aside ; with the rest 
vrork up the fiuit, sweetmeats, and spices; 
make it into a round form like a thick cmese. 
Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the bun in the 
centre, and gather it all round, closing it at 
the bottom, by wetting the ed^ of the paste, 
wad cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn 
it up, and run a wu« or small skewer through 



B0T 



30 



BUT 



from the^op to tbe bottom every here and 
there, and prick tbe top wi^ a fiirk. Dou- 
Ue and flour a sheet of gray paper^ and lay 
the bun upon it; bind a piece round the 
sides, ako doubled and flovoned, to keep the 
bun in a {Nt^par shape* Bake it in a mod- 
erate oven. 

BUNS, S££D« Take two pounds of 
plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce oT 
caraway seeds, butter the ineides of tart- 
pans, mould the dough into buns, and put 
one into each pan; set them to rise in a 
warm place, ai^d when sufficiently proved, 
ice them widi the white of an egg beat to a 
frotli, lay some pounded sugar over that, and 
dissolve it with water splashed from the 
icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. 

BURDWANSTEW. Cut into joints a 
cold fowl or duck, put it into a stewpan, 
with half a pint of gravy, a large wine-glass 
' of ale, half a one of white wine, the juice 
of half a kmon, a teanspoonful of soy and 
Cayenne ; of mushroom catsup, lemon pickle, 
cucumber vinegar, corach escavecke, a des- 
sert-spoonfiil each. Heat all thoroughly be- 
fore serving. 

BUTTER BURNT. Put two ounces of 
fresh butter into a.smaU frying-pan; when it 
becomes a daric brown color, add to it a 
table-Bpoonfiil and a half of good vinegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. Oba. — ^This is 
used as sauce for boiled fish cm* poached 

BURNET VINEGAR. See Vinegar. 

BUTTER BISCUITS. SeeBiacuUe. 

BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes, 

BUTTER, CLARIFIED. Put the butter 
in a nice, clean stewpan, over a very clear, 
slow fire ; watch it, and when it is melted, 
carefully skim off the buttermilk, &c. which 
will swmi on the top ; let it stand a minute 
or two for the impurities to sink to lhe bot- 
tom; then pour tbe clear butter througli a 
sieve into a clean basin, leaving the sediment 
at the bottom of the stewpan. Oba. — ^But- 
ter thus purified will be as sweet as marrow, 
a ye^ useful covering for otted meats, &c. 
and for firyins fish equal to the finest Fbrence 
oil; for whioi purpose it is commonly used 
by Catholics, and those whose religious ten- 
ets win not allow them to eat viancb fried in 
animal oil. 

BUTTER, FRENCH MELTED. Mix, 
in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, a tablenspoonfiil of flour, a UtUe 
■alt, half dvgill of water, half a spooufiil of 



l^hite vBDKar, and a little grated nutmeg: 
Put it on the &e, stir it, and let it thicken, 
but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste 
of the flour. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (1) Dnstk little 
flour over a quarter of a pound of butter, put 
it into a saucepan, with about a wine-fflaav 
of water ; stir it one way constantly till it be 
meked, and let it just boil; a rounid woodenr 
stick, is the best thing to stir butter with inr 
melting. If the butter is to be melted witb 
cream, use the same proportion as uf water, 
but no flour; stir it constantly, and heat it 
thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To o^ 
butter, cut about a cfuartor of a pound into 
slices, put it into a small jar, and place it in 
a pan oi boiling water. When oiled, pour 
it off clear fi'om the sediment. 

BUTTER, MELTED, (2) Is so simpler 
and eai^ to prepare, that it is a matto* of 
general surprise, that what is done so often^ 
is so seldom done right. It is spoiled nine 
times out of ten, more from idleness than from 
ignorance, and rather because the cook won't 
than because she can't do it; ukrfaich can on- 
ly be the case when housekeepers will not 
allow butter to do it with. Good melted 
butter cannot be made with mere flour and 
water ; there must be a foil and proper pro- 
portion of butter. As it must be always on 
the table, and is the foundation of almost all 
our sauces, we have. 

Melted butter and oysters, 

^ parsley, 

 anchovies, 

egg^, 

' i^imps, 

lobeteiB, 

— — — ~— capers, &c. &c. Scc« 
I have tried every way ot making it; and I 
trust, that I t»ve written- a receipt, (3^ 
which, if the cook will carefolly observe, 
she will constantly succeed in giving satis- 
foction. In the quantities of the various 
sauces I have ordered, I 'have had in yie\f 
the providing for a family of half a dozen 
moderate people. Never pour sauce over meat 
<Mr even put it into the dish; however well 
made, eotoe of the company may have an 
antipathy to it; tastes are as different as 
fooes: moreover, if it is sent up separate in a 
boat, it will keep hot longer, and what is lefk 
may be put by for another time, or used for 
another pinpoee. 

BUTTER, MELTED. (8) Keepapmt 
stewpan ; for this purpose only. Oit tw* 
ounces of butter into little bits, that it may 
melt more easily, and mix more readily ; pot 
it into the stewpan with a large teanspopii* 
fill (t. «. about three drachms) of flour, 
(some prefer anowHm>t,*or potato starch) 



CAB 



31 



CAKE 



md two table^pooofuls of milk. Wlien 
thorougfaly mixed, add six table-flpoonfiils 
of water; hdd it over the (ire, and shake it 
xouDd every miniite (all the wbile the same 
way), till It just begins to simmer; then let 
it stand quietty and boil up. It diould be of 
the thickness of good cream. N. B.— Two 
taUe-epoonfols of mwhroom catchup, instead 
of the milk, will make as good mushroom 
•auoe as need be, and is a superlative accom- 
paniment to either fish, flesh, or fowl. 
06s.-7-'niis is the nest way of preparing 
melted bntto*; milk mixes widi die butter 
mnch more easily and more intimately than 
water alone can be made to do. This is 
of proper thickness to be mixed at table 
with flavouring essences, anchovy, mush* 
room, or cavioe, &c If made merely to 
pour over vegetables, add a little more milk 
to it. N. B. — If the butter oils, put a 
spoonful of cold water to it, and stir it with 
a spoon ; if it is very much oiled, it must 
be poured backwards and forwards from 
tlie stewpan to the sanoeboat till it is right 
a^in. Mem. — ^Mehed butter made to be 
mixed with flavouring essences, catchups, 
&c. should be of the thickness of light bat- 
ter, that it may adhere to the fish, &c. 

BUTTER, OILED. Put two ounces of 
fi^esh butter into a saucepan ^set it at a dis- 
tance from the fire, so that it may melt grad- 
ually, till it comes to an oil; ana pour it off 
quietly torn tlie dr^. Obs. — ^This will 
supply the place of olive oil ; and by some is 
preferred to it either fur salads or (rying. 

BUTTER SAUCE. See Sauce, 



C. 



CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP. 
'See Soup, 

CABBAGE, TO STEW. Wash a cab- 
bage well, dice it as ^r pickling, and jmH it 
into a stev^pan, with lialf a tea-cupnii of 
Port wine, and a bit of butter kneauded in 
flour, a little sadt and pepper; stir it till the 
butter is melted ; cover the pan, and let it stew 
a little, but not to become too sofl;; as it eats 
better rathor crisp; add a table-spoonfiil of 
vin^ar, give it one boil, and serve it hot. 
The wine may be omitted. 

CABBAGE, TO PICKLE. Choose two 
middling-sized, well-colored, and firm red 
cabbages, shred them very finely, first pulling 
off the outside leaves ; mnc with them nearly 
half a pound of salt, tie it up in a thia doth, 
and let it hang for twelve hours ; then put it 
into unall jars, and poor ov^ it ooid vinegar 



dnt has been boiled with a few faariierria ill 
it ; tie the jar over closely with bkulder ; or 
boil, in a quart of vioefjar, three bits of gin- 
ger, half an ounce of pepper, and a quarter of 
an ounce of cloves* When < " 
the red cabbage. 



ookl, pouritofvw 



CAKES. Prkparatort nsHA^Ki. 
The currants and raisins should be prepared 
as directed under llie article beaded, Pud* 
dings'and Pies, and the flour dried befera 
the fire on a large sheet of white paper, then 
sifted and weiglied. Almonds should be 
blanched by pouring hot water over them, 
and, aAer standing some mimitos, taking off 
the skin, then throwing them into rose or 
cold water. Wlien not pounded, tliej should 
be cut lengthwise into thin bits. Sugar 
should be roughly pounded, rolled with a 
bottle upon white paper, and then sifted. All 
spuxB, after being well dried at tlie fire, should 
be finely poundnl and sifted. Lemon and 
orange-peel must be pared very thin, and 
poundea with « little sugar. The butter, 
after being weiglied, should be laid into cxAd 
water, or washed in rose water, and if salt, 
be %veU waslied in several waters. The 
yolks and whites of eggs should be separately 
and long beaten, dien strained; two whisks 
should be kept exclusively for tliat pur* 
pose, as the whites especially require to be 
managed willi the greatest care. A horn 
spoon should be used for mixing those cakes 
which are not directed to be beuten with tlie 
hand. To make cakes lislit, salvolatile, or 
smelling salts, may be added hnmediately 
before putting tlieui into the oven, allowing, 
to a sponge cake, made of one pound of flour, 
one tea-tfpoonful ; and two or Uiree to a large 
plum cake. Cheese cakes, (|ueen cakes, 
sponge biscuits, and small sponge cakes, r»> 
quire a quick oven till they luive risen ; after- 
wards the heat should be more moderate. 
Plum, seed cakes, and all large kiuds, must be 
well soaked, and dierefore do not require a 
brisk oven. To preserve their color, a sheet of 
white paper is put over tlieiu, and after they 
have risen and become firm, tliey are tui'ned 
round. To ascertain if a large cake be 
sufficiently done, a broad bladed knife is 
plunged into the centre of it, and if dry and 
clean when drawn out, tlie cake is baked; 
but if anything adheres to the blade, it must 
instantly be returned to tlie oven, and the 
door closed. When the oven is too hot, it 
is better to lessen the fire tlian to ogea the 
door. 

CAKE. Take two pounds and a half of 
dried and sifted floor, the same of well clean- 
ed and dried currants, two pounds of fresh 
butter, two of finely-pounded and gifted loaf 
sugar, a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of 
pcrandod cinnamon, one ounce of citron and 



CAKE 



32 



CAK£ 



candied orange-peel, c«t small, the yolks of 
sixteen, and the whites of ten eg^, beaten 
separarely ; then with the hand beat tlie 
butter to a cream, and add the sugar, then 
the eggs by de^ees, and the flour in the 
same way, and then the curranti?, sweetmeats, 
and spice, one glass of orange-flower water, 
aad one of brandy. Butter a tin pan, line it 
with white paper buttered, piit in the cake, 
and bake it in a moderate oven four hours. 

CAKE, ALMOND. Blanch half a pound 
of sweet, and tliitje ounces of bitter almonds ; 
pound them to a paste in a mortar with 
oranwe-fl jwef water ; add half a pound of 
fiiflcd loaf 5 'gilt, and a little brandy; whisk 
8e|?a:'ately, Coc half an hour, the whites and 
yolks of twenty eg^.4, add the yolks to the 
almonds and sugar, and then stir ui tlie whites, 
and beat them all \\c\\ together. Butter a 
tin |)an, sift bread raspings over it, put the 
rake into it, over tlie top of which sb'ew siAed 
loaf sugar. Bake it in a f]iiick oven tor 
half or three-quurtei's of an hour. , 

CAKES, ALMOND SMALL. One 
pound of butter besite-i to a ci^eam, half a 
pound of finely-pountleJ and sifted loaif sugar, 
half a poimd of dried and sifted flour, and 
tlie same qunntity of blanched sweet abnonds 
cut into tltin small bits, one well-beaten egg, 
and a little rose water, must be mixed well 
'togctlier, and with a spoon dropped upon 
wafer paper or ti)is, and then baked. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (1) Take ei^it 
ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter al- 
monds, blanch and pound them very fine ; . 
tlien lx;at in with tlie almonds tlie yolks of 
ei^it eggs, and whisk up die whiles to a 
solid fri;th. Then tiikc eight table-spoonfiils 
of sifted sugar, fixe spoonfuls of fine flour, a 
small c{uantity of grated lemon-peel and 
poundeti cinnamon, and mix all toe ingre- 
ditmts. Rub tlie inside of a mould with 
frefh butter, fill it with die mixture and bake 
it of a light color. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (2) Put a gill of 
flour upon a piu-hoaid, and make a hole 
in the middle to receive a piece of butter the 
sire of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a 
pound of fine sugju*, and six ounces of sweet 
almonds poimdetj venrfine: knead tlie whole, 
aad i(>rm it into a cake ; bake, and glaze it 
with sugar and a liot salamander. 

CAKE, ALMOND. (3) Weigh three 
eggs in thjir shells, tiikc the same weight of 
flour, of tlic finest fresh butter, and of grated 
baf sugar. Pound widi tliese ingredients 
t!:ree ounces of sweet almonds blanclied ; add 
a little grated bmon-peel, or orange-flower 
water, and the whites and yolks of three 



eggs. Continue pounding till the whole 
forms a smooth paste. Butter the bottom 
of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with 
fire above and below. This cake may be 
served either hot or cold, with grated sugar 
over it» 

CAKES, ANISEED. Put in an earthen 
pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and 
the yolks often eg|s ; stir them togetiier with 
a wooden spoon mr lialf an hour. In the 
meantime have die whites of your egCT 
whipped to a thick snow, arid tlien pour m 
the sugar and yolks. When dioroughly 
mixed, add an ounce of gr^od aniseed, pre- 
viously washed and dried, and ten ounces of 
flour; stir tiie whole gently, and then witli a 
spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about 
the size of a crown-riece ; sprinkle diem with 
fine sugar, and bake. Remove them fit>ni ^ 
the pa|;er, wliik; hot, widi a knife. 

CAKE, APPLE. Pare and Cv .o a d 
en apples, and make them into r:i:.. iiialade, 
with the ze»te of a lemon and a little cinna- 
mon, and pass them thi-ough a IxJiiiig; put 
them into a stewpan, widi a spo<jnf.;I of 
potato flour, ludf a pound of suga.*, u.id two 
ounces of butter; dry it over Use fire, h-^A 
when cold add to it six eggs, stir them well 
in, and having buttei'ed a mould, pour your 
preparation into it, and bake it in a blaw 
oven; when done, turu it in a diisli and 
sen-e it. 

CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Bcri 

to a ci-eam a rjuarter of a pound off ctli b.atci-, 
and mix with it Uie same quantity «.f pou'.u)- 
ed and siftedli)af rtignr, and fl>ui wcli-l.cateii 
eggs; add flour till diick enorgli to nJlout; 
cut the paste into oblong pi.^ces abont ft,i:r 
or five indies in Icngtii ; witli a \ ;4stc cuLte* , 
divide the centre into three or four sti ipt, ; 
wet die edges, and | lait one bai* ove;* tlie 
odier, 60 as to meta in die centre ; threw 
them into boiling lard, or cla.ified suet; 
when filed of a light lnx»wn, drain them 
before the fii«, and serxe them in a napkin, 
with or without giated loiif sugar strewed 
over them. 

CAKE, BANBURY. Set a sponge with 
two table-spoonfuls of thick yeast, a giU of 
warm milk, and a pound of flour; when it 
hiis worked a litUe, mix with it half a pound 
of cunants, washed and picked, lialf a 
pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut 
sircill, one ounce of spice, such as ground 
cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and grated nut- 
meg: mix the whole together with half a 
pound of honey ; roll out puff paste a quartet 
of an inch duck, cut it into rounds with a 
cutter, about four inches over, lay on ead* 
with a spoon a small quantity df the mixture ; 



CAKE 



33 



CAKE 



dose It round with the iiii^en in die Ibnn 
of an oval ; place the join mdenieelh ; preas 
it flat with the hand; sift aogar over it, and 
hake them on a plate a quarter of an hoiar. 

CAKES, BATH BREAKFAST. Rub 
into twO'poundB of flour half a pound of but- 
ter, and mix with it (MM pint c^ milk a little 
wanned, a quarter of a pint of fivah yeast, 
four well-beaten egss, and a tea-epoonfid <^ 
sah ; cover it, and fet it stand before the fire 
to rise for thrae-cjiiarters c^ an hour; make 
it into thick cakes aboirt the siie <^ the 
inside of a dinner plate; bake them in a 
quick oven, then cut them into three, that 
die middle slice, as also the top and bottom 
may be well buttered. Serve them very hot. 

CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To duee 
pounds ci dried flour allow one pound of 
fresh butter, one pound of good brown sugar, 
two ounces of caraway seeds, eight well- 
beaten eggs, three tabte-qioonfiils <^ fresh 
veasty and some grated nutmeg ; dissolve the 
butt^ in a pint of milk, so as to make the 
vrfiole into a dov^, not veiy stiff; work it 
well; cover it with a cloth, and set it before 
the fire to rise ; when well risen, bake it in 
a buttered tin. When it becomes dry, it 
may be toasted and eatm with butter. 

CAKES, BONNET. Boil in half a 
pint of water, for ten minutes, a bit of cin- 
namon, and of lemon-peel; strain, and mix it 
with three table-apoonfols of flour, and stir 
it over the fire €>r two or three minutes; add 
a bit <^ butter the sise <^ a walnut; when 
cold, mix in the beaten ydks of two egga, a 
little salt and pepper ; beat it well, drop a 
deasert-epoonral or the mixture into boiuQg 
lard, then drain them upon the bftck of a 
sieve, and when served, throw over pound e d 
loaf sugar. Instead ofthe salt and pepper, a 
little preserve may be dropped upon each, 
before the sugar is thrown over. 

CAKE, BABA. Take dw fourth part of 
two pounds of flour, lay it on your paste- 
boara or slab, and bavinff made a hole in 
the middle of it, put in half an ounce of 
yeast, work it up with one hand, whilst with 
the other vou pour in warm water ; make it 
into a raxner soft paste, put into a wooden 
bowl, first prickinff it in a few places, cover 
A with a cloth and let it stana. When it 
has risen well, take the I'emainder ofthe 
floor, and spread it on the first made pas^; 
mix them well together, adding to them 
half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of 
fi^esh butter, half a pound of stonea raisins, 
two ounces of currants, half a glass of Mal- 
aga wine, and a little saffron in powder. 
Work them up together thoroughly, roll it 
out two or thrae times, and then let it stand 



for six bom; then having buttered aowdd, 
poor in your pnpantaoo md bdca ic 

CAKE, BOLAR. One pooad of flow 
dried m a slow oven, two apoonflib of yeast, 
some almond milk, and water to mix for a 
sponge; when raised, beat op three-quarten 
of a pound of clarified butter, three cgn, and 
three-quarten of a pound of sqgar, w^Uwafe* 
en till the spoon comes dean awmy; then 
add cinnamon powder, candied oraoM and 
lemon* Bake in eartlwn basins, well but* 
tered; keep it before the fire till put in dM 
oven. 

CAKE, BOLAR. Whn die aponge it 
beat, as for die hat, balead of moung dw 
sqgar, it ii rolled in the sugar and einoamoa 

CAKE, DUTCH BOLAR. Done, at 
above, without sugar; then prick holes wkh 
a sharp noimed knife, and while it ii hot 
pour in mre e q uar ters of a pound of darifled 
sugar, flavored with ciunamon or orange 
flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are pre- 
viously put in the cake. Ornament yoir 
cake wkh harlequin sugar-pluma. This waa 
a fevorite cake of Qneen Charlotte. 

CAKE, BREAD. Take die quantity 
of a quartern loaf fix>m the dough when mak- 
ing white bread, and knead weO into it two 
ounces of buttei*, two of Lidxxi augar, and 
eight of curranta. Wann the butler in a 
tea-cupfiil of good milk. By the addition 
of an ounce of butter, or aqgar, or an egg or 
two, you may make the oake better. A 
tea-ciiqpfiil of raw cream improvea it muolu 
It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as 
a k)af, the outside being less hard. 

CAKE, BRIDE. Take four pounds of 
&ie flour well dried, four pounoi of fineah 
butter, two pounds of loaf angar, pounded 
and sifted fine, a quarter of an omioe oi 
mace, and the same q*i^ntity o[ nutmegs; 
to everjr pound of flour put ei^t eggs; wadi 
and pick four pounds of currants, and dry 
them befiire the fire; blanch a pound of 
sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways, 
very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of 
candied oranse, a pound of candied lemon, 
and half a pmt of brandy; first w<Mrk the 
butter with your hand to a cream, then 
beat in ydur sugar a quarter of an hour; 
beat the whites of your eggs to a very strbi^ 
fi-oth ; mix them with your sugar uid but- 
ter ; beat the yolks half an hour, at least, 
and mix them with your cake; then put^ in 
your flour, mace, and nutm^; keq> beating 
It till the oven is ready ; put in your farandv, 
and beat the currants and almonds liglitly 
in ; tie three sheets of paper round the bot- 
tom of your hoope to keep it fi'om lunning 



CAKE 



34 



CAKE 



trat; nib it well with butter, put in your 
cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays^ with 
cake between every la^; after it is risen 
and colored, cover it with paper before your 
oven is stopped up; it will take three lM>urs 
baking. 

CAKE, BREB. Take some rich cheese, 
knead it with a pint and half of flour, three 
quartos of a pound of butter, and a little 
salt; moisten it with five or six egffi beaten 
up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand 
for an hour; then form your caike and bake 
as usual. 

CAKES, BENTON-TEA. Rub into 
a pound of flour, six ounces of .butter, and 
three spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a 
paste with new milk; make into biscuits, 
and |n*ick them with a clean fork. 

CAKES, BUTTER. Beat a diih of 
butlo: with your hands to a cream, add two 
pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried 
flour, and twenty-tour eggs, leave out half 
the whites, and then beat all together for an 
hour; when you are going to put it in the 
oven add a quarts of an ounce of mace and 
a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds 
and currants, if you think proper. 

CAKE, WITHOUT BUTTER. Take 
the weight of three eggs in sugar, and the 
weight of two in flour ; when the five eggs are 
well beaten, gradually add the susar, and 
then the flour, with a little grated kmaa- 
peel, or a few caraway seeds. Bake it in 
a tin mould, in rather a quick oven. 

CAKES, CHESHIRE. Beat for half 
an hour the yolks of eight, and the whites 
of five ^^ ; add half a pound of pounded 
and siflo(^ loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of dried and sifii^ flour, and the grated 
peel of a small lemon ; beat all well togeth- 
er, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (1) Three 
quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter well rubbed into it, a quarter of a 
pound of sifled loaf sugar, and some caraway 
seeds ; make tliese into a stiff paste with a 
little cold water, roll it out two or three 
times, cut it into round cakes, prick them, 
and bake them upon floured tins. For a 
cliange, currants may be substituted for the 
caraway seeds. 

CAKES, CARAWAY. (2) Mix half 
ft pound of sified loaf sugar with a pound 
of flour and a quarter of a pound aC butter, 
add some caraway seeds; make it into a 
stiff paste, with three well-beaten eggs, and 
a little rose water; roll it out thin, cut it 



into round cakes, prick diem with a fork, 
and bake them upon floured tins in a quick 
oven. 

CAKES, CURD CHEESE. Boil, io 
two quarts <^ cream, the well-beaten yolks 
of four, and the whites of five ^gs ; drain 
ofi* the whey gently, and mix with the curd 
grated nutm^, pounded cinnamon, three ' 
table-spoonfuls of best rose water, as much 
white wine, four ounces of pounded loaf su- 
gar, tlie same quantity of butter beaten to a 
cieam, and of pounded biscuit. Mix all 
these ingredients well together, and stir in 
a quarter of a pound of currants. Bake it 
in a large tin, or in patty-pans lined with 
paste ; or it may be baked in a dish previ- 
ously buttered. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (1) Take 
two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a 
half of butter, the yolks of five or six e^s, 
one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonmls 
of white wine, three spoonfuls of caraway 
seeds, two nutm^, and one pound of cur- 
rants; beat up tne butter with your hand 
till it is very thin ; dry the flour well ; put in 
the caraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grat- 
ed; afterwards put them all into your bat- 
ter, witli the eggs, white wine, and rose 
water; mingle them well together; put in 
the currants ; let your oven he pretty hot, 
and as soon as they are colored they will be 
sufficiently done. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (2) Take half a 
pound of cleaned and dried currants, the 
same quantity of dried and sified flour, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of fi^esh butter, four 
yolks, and three whites of eggs, both well 
beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pound- 
ed cinnamon; then beat the biitter to a 
cream; add the sugar, and then the eggs 
and the flour; beat these well for twenW 
minutes, mix in the currants and the grated 
nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form 
upon iMittered paper, or bake them in small 
tins in a quick oven. 

CAKES, CURRANT. (3) Take six 

ounces of currants, the same quantity of 
pounded loaf susar, a little grated nutmeg, i 
half a pound of butter, and three-quarters 
of a pound of dried and sifted flour ; rub the 
butter with the flour till th^ be weU mixed, 
then add the other ingredients, and bind « 
them with three beaten yelks of eggs, and 
two or three spoonfuls of rose or (Hange- 
flower wato" ; roll it out, and cut it into 
round cakes with the top of a wine glass oi 
a tin. 

CAKE, COMMON. (1) Tbke two 



CAKE 



35 



CAKE 



qaartB c^ flour, mix with it three-quarten 
irf* a pound of butter, a tea-capAil of firoh 
yeast, one pint of milk, nine weD-beaten 
eggs, two pounds of weU-cfeaned curranti, 
one pound and a half of good hrowQ sugar, 
the grated peel of a lemon, and one nutmeg; 
a gasB of brandy must be stirred in just be- 
(oite it be put into a buttered tin. Bake it 
.«:£»* two hours or more. 

f CAKE, COMMON. (2) Rub into one 
pound of floor ^ qoartnr of a pound of 
good butter; mix, with two well4)eaten 
e^lB, and a taUe-^^^oodul of fresh veast, as 
mach warm milk as will make the flour into 
a very thick batter. Let this remain near 
the fire, covered with a cloth for an hour, 
thai mix into it six ounces of good brown 
sugar, and nine ounces of well-cleaned and 
dried currants; let it stand again for half 
an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for 
an hour. 

CAKE, COMMON. (3) One pound and 
a half of flour, one pound of good brown su- 
gar, eight well-beaten eggs, and one ounce 
of caraway seeds, are to be mixed togeth^; 
dien add of fiedi yeast, milk, and of water, 
one table-epoonfiileach. Let it stand a lit- 
tle time, and bake it in a floured tin. 

CAKES, COLD HARBOR. Dissolve 
one ounce of btitter in as much milk wanned 
as will make four pounds of floor Into a stiff 
paste; about two pints may be required; 
add half a tea-«poonfol of salt, one egg 
beaten to|fether with a ti^4e-i^oonfiil of 
yeast; mix it all well, cover it with a 
cloth, and let it remain before the fire for 
half an hour; then make it into small 
round balls, and bake them upon tins in a 
quick oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (1) Putapoimdof 
flour upon a pie-board ; make a hole in the 
middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, 
aiid a little sak ; mix the paste li^tly, let 
it stand for half an Iknit, then add Inlf a 
pound of buttor; roll it out, five times, the 
same as puff paste, and form it Into small 
cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and 
bake in an oven. 

CAKES, CREAM. (2) Sift some 
dooble-rdHied sugar; beat ihe whites of 
seven or eight ^gs; shake in as soany 
qpoonfols of the sugar; grate in the rind of 
a lai^ lemon; drop the froth on a paper, 
laid on tin, in hmips at a distance; sift a 
good deal of sugar over fliem; set them in a 
moderate oven; the firoth will rise; just 
color them; you may put raspberry jam, 
andsdck tv^o bottoms together; put tbem 
in a cool oven to dry 



CAKES, CREAM. (3) Put into » 
stewpan, two glasses of cream, a quarter of 
a pound of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut 
small, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, 
and a pinch of salt. Set it on the fire, and 
when it begins to boil, put it fay the side of 
the stove; take out the lemon«eel, and add, 
by degrees, as mtich flour as the lk]nid will 
bear; keeo stirrii^ it constantly, mnd pbca 
it on the ore agam, for five minutes, then 
pour it intoa buin ; add to it, one by one, 
as oMnjr egf^ as will make the paste stidt 
to the fingers ; put the paste on a sUb, and 
make your cakes of a round form. 

CAKES, CANAPES. Roll out thrae 
quarters of a pound of puff paste, keeping it 
kmg and narrow; do not let it be more than 
a quarter of an inch thick, and about three 
indies wide. Cbt the paste across with a 
sharp knifo, in slips three^igfats of an inch 
in width, and place them on the cut side, on 
a baking-plate, each two indies apart; bake 
them in a hot oven, and vdien niody oc4ored, 
sprinkle them with susar, and glaxe tbem. 
When done, remove uiem from the plate; 
and just b^>re they are served, mask them 
with apricot marmalade, or any other you 
may like better, and arrange tnem on your 
dim sfi eounmne. 

CAKES, CURD. Take a quart of 
curds, eiglit eggs, feaving out four whites ; 
put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little 
flour; mix these well t-j^etner, heat butter, 
in a firying-pan, drop tiiem in, and fry like 
firitters. 

CAKES, DERBY OR SHORT. Rub 
in with the hand one pound ^of butter into 
two pounds <^ sifted ikmr ; put one pound 
of currants, one pound of good moist sugar, 
*and one egw; mix all together with &ilf 
a pint of miK.* roll it out thin, and cut tliem 
into round cakn with a cuttor ; lay tliem on 
a clean bakii^-plate, and put tliem into a 
middling-beated oven for about five minutes. 

CAKE, DIET BREAD. Boil, in half 
a pint of wator, one pound and a half of 
lump sugar; have ready one pint of eg'^, 
three parts volks, in a pan ; pour in the su- 
gar, and wtiisk it quick till cold, or about 
a quarto* of an hour; then stir in two 
pounds of sifted flour; case the inside of 
square tins with white paper: fill tliem three 
ports fiill; sift a little su^ar over, and bake 
It in a warm oven, and while hot remove 
them fiY>m the moulds. 

CAKE, DAUPHINE. Beat separate- 
ly the whites and yolks q( lirentv egss; to 
the volks add a pound of mjpHdpd aodsifted 
Vnf'^BUgar, tlie grated peel /s^ one iemoii, and 



CAKE 



36 



Cake 



two or three table-flpoonfulB of orange-flower 
water; then stir in the whites, and lightly 
mix in half a pound of dried and sifted flour. 
Bake it in a moderate oven. 

CAKE, FASHION. Mix a handful of 
flour with a pint of good cream, half a pound 
of beef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of 
a pound of powdeJT'^ugar, half a pound of 
rajsins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of 
orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, 
and salt ; bike it as all other cakes, about an 
hour, and glaze or garnish it. 

CAKE, FOURRES. Make a puff paste, 
form it into two equal parts the size of the 
dish in which you mean to place your cake, 
and the thickness of two crowns each ; then 
take one of the cakes and put upon it some 
sweetmeats, leaving about an inch, as a 
border, all round; wet it with water and 
place the other cake upon it, draw up the 
edges carefully with your fingers; gild them 
with the yolk of egg, and bake ttem in an 
oven. 

CAKE, FRENCH. Twelve eggs, the 
^Iks and whites beaten well and separately, 
one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
the ^ted peel of a large lemon, half a pound 
of sifted and dried flour, the same weight of 
sifted and dried g^ound rice, four ounces of 
sweet, and one of bitter almonds, pounded in 
a mortar together, with a table-epoonful of 
orange-flowor water. Mix all these ingre- 
dients gradually, and beat them well. Pa- 
per the pan, and bake the cake for one hour. 

CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and 
flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and 
whites of nine eg^, half a pound of lump 
sugar, pounded amd sifted, and half an ounce 
of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one 
hour, bake it for the same time in a quick 
oven. This is a very light cake, and is ve- 
ry proper for young people and delicate 
stomachs. 

CAKES, RICH GINGERBREAD. To 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, allow 
lialf a pound of pounded loaf sugar, three- 
quaiters of a pound of fresh butter washed in 
rose water, one pound of treacle, one nutmeg 
grajted, the wei^ of a nutmeg of pounded 
maoe, and as much of poondM cinnamon, 
one ounce of pounded fl[inger, one and a half 
ci candied oranse and lem(Hi-peel, cut small, 
half an ounce ofblanched sweet almonds, cut 
it into k>ng thin bits, and two wdl-beaten 
em, Meh the buttor with the trrade, and 
wben nearly oold, stir in the eg^ and the 
rest of the ingredients ; mix all well together, 
make it into roiAd oakes, and bake them 
11900 tins. 



CAKE, GINGERfO^EAD. Take two 
pounds of treacle, two and a quarter of flour, 
of browm sugar trnd fresh butter three-quar^ 
ters of a poiuui each, four oimces of caraway 
seeds, the same quantity of candied orange- 
peel cut small, four well-beaten em, and 
half an ounce of pearl ashes ; beat tne butler 
to a cream, and nfix it with the re^pt of the 
ingredients. The next day work it well up^ 
and bake it in a buttered tin. • , 

CAKE, GLOVE. With flour make into 
a paste tliick enough to roll out, the beaten 
yolks of ten eggs, five table-spoonfiils- of rich 
sweec cream, a little sugar, and some carda- 
mons; cut it into fenciful forms with smaB 
tins, and throw them into fi^esh boiling brd 
or butter ; when of a light brown color, drain 
them before the fire. If fried in butter, add 
a little water to the butter, and make it boil- 
ing hot. 

CAKES, GIRDLE. Riib three ounces 
of fresh butter into one pound of flour, with 
half a tea-spocMiful of salt; moisten with a 
sufficiency of sweet butter-milk to make it 
into a paste; roll it out, and cut it into cakes 
with a cup (HT tumbler, and bake them upon 
a girdle. 

CAKES, HONEY. One pound and a 
half of dried and sifted floUr, three-quarters 
of a pound of honey, half a pound of finely 
pounded loaf sugar, a qinurter of a pound of 
citixin, and half an ounce of orange-peel cut 
small, of pounded ginger and cinnamon, three 
quaiters of an ounce. Melt die sugar with 
tile honey, and mix in the other ingrodients; 
roll out the paste, and cut it into small cakes 
of any form. 

CAKES, HEART. Widi your hand 
""work a pound of butter to a cream, then put 
to it twelve eggs, witli only six of the whites 
well-beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound 
of sifted sugar, four spoonfuls of eood brandy, 
and a pomid of currants washed and dried 
before the fire. As the pans are filled, pot 
in two ounces of candied orange and citron, 
and continue beating the cake till you put it 
into the oven. This quantity will be suffi- 
cient to fill three dozen of middling sized 
pans. 

r'^-^iiS, IRISH SEED. Beat to a 
cre^ m ^^ ounces of fiiesh butter, and a 
quaru. t aii^int of iXMse water, putting in a 
table-spool , / rose water at a time ; by 
degrees, mix 1. :[, it a pound of sifted loaf 
sugar, and then., je well-beaten cffgs; add 
twelve ounces < . Jour, and tln'ee of flour of 
rice dried and sifted, a quaiter of. a pound 
of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter al- 
monds, a tea-epoonfiil of essence oi lemon. 



CAKE 



37 



CAKE 



«Dd one omoe of earawajrimda; beat all 
tbeae well together; bake it in a cake tin, 
wbich muflt be buttered and lined with paper, 
also faottered. It will require about one hour 
and a hatf to bake in aqoick oven. It may 
be made without the almonds or the e me n ce 
of lonon. 

CAKES, LITTLE. Toapoond of flour 
dried, add a pound of lompsuear rolled vtiry 
fine, the peel of two lemons diopped anall, 
and five ounces of butter; mix them thor- 
oughly ; let it stand scHuetime before the fire, 
than add three eggs well beaten, the whites 
eqparately, pick them with a fink into small 
bimpB, and bake them on a tin: tfiis quanti- 
ty will make about eighty cakes. Instead 
of lemon-peel you may, if you please, add 
sixty bitter ahnonds blanched and beaten 
with white of egg until they are quiie fine. 

CAKES, MANON. Form some puff' 
paste into an under-crust and oover some 
baking^plates with it; then spread all over 
them some Jrangipane, or marmalade, of 
whatever soit you please ; add some sweet- 
meat, and then cover witli a very tliin crust ; 
gild and ornament than, then put them in 
the oven ; when they are three parts done, 
minkle th«n with sugar, and glaze. When 
they are glared put tl^m to finish baking in 
a more gentle oven, and when done take 
tfaein out of the tins, and serve them either 
hot or cold. 

CAKES, MONTROSE. Of dried and 
sifted fiour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 
and of fi'esh butler, one pound each will be 
required, also twelve well-beaten eggs, three 
quarters of a pound of cleaned and dried 
currants ; beat the butter to a cream with the 
sugar; add the eggs by degrees, and then the 
flour and currants, with two table-spoonfiils 
of brandy, one of rose water, and half a 
grated nutmeg; beat all well together for 
twenty or thirty minutes, when it is to be 
pnt into small buttered tins, half filling them, 
and baking them in a quick oven. The 
currants may be omitted. 

CAKES, MEAT. Set Meat, 

CAKES, NUNS. Take four pounds of 
TeiT fine fiour, and mix with it thrc«#Qttnds 
of double-refined sugar, finely beat amT^ifted ; 
dry them by the fire till your Other materials 
are prepared; take foxxc pounds of butter, 
beat it in your hands till it is very soft like 
cream; b^t thirty-four eggs, leave out six- 
teen whites and take out the treads fi^m all ; 
beat the eggs and butter together till it ap- 
pears like butter, pour m four or five 
spoonfiils of rose or orange-flower water, and 
beat it again ; then take your flour and sugar 



with six ounoes of caraway ne^; straw it 
in by degrees, beating it up all the while, 
fat two hours together; put in as much tinc- 
ture of cinnamon, or ambergris, as yoa 
please; butler your hoop, and let it stand 
three horn in a moderate oven. 

CAKES, NUNS' BEADS. Povidina 
mortar four oances of mod cheese, with a 
little salt, the beaten volks of tlvea em, and 
some crumbs of bread; roll them as hrge as 
walnuts, cover them with puff" paste, and fry 
them in butter a light brown color. Berva 
them in a aapkm. 

CAKES, OATMEAI^ One only shodd 
be made at a time, as the mixture dries 
c|uickly. Put two or tlvee handfiib of meal 
into a bowl, and moisten it with water 
merely sufficient to fonn it into a cake; 
knead it out round and round with the hands 
upon the paste-libard, strewing meal under 
and over it; k may be made as tliin as a 
wafer, or thicker, according to taste, and 
put it on a hot iron plate, called a girdle. 
Bake it till it be a light brown cmi the under 
side, then take it .off*, and toast that side 
before the fire which was uppermost on the 
girdle. The toaster is sudi as is commonly 
used for heating smoothing irons, having a 
back to support the cake. To make tMse 
cakes soft, tliey roust not be toasted before 
the fire, but both sides done quickly on tlie 
girdle. 

CAKE, PLUM. Three pounds of flour, 
three pounds of currants, three-auarters of a 
pound of almonds, blanched and beat grossly, 
about half an ounce of them bitter, finir 
ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites 
of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of 
buttor, half a pint of good ale yeast ; mix the 
e^^ and the yeast togetlier, strain them; set 
tlie cream on the fire, melt the butter in it ; 
stir in the almonds, and half a pint of sack, 
part, of which should be put to the almonds 
while beating; mix together the flour, cur- 
rants and sugar, what nutmegs, cloves and 
mace are likej: stir these to the creeun: put 
in the yeast. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (1) 
Boil and peel half a pound of good potatoes, 
bruise them in a mortar, and wlien nearly 
cold drop in the yolk and white of an egg 
at' intervals, until four have been added, 
beating the potatoes well all the time; then 
add a quarter of a pound of sifted bread 
crumbs, and put in two more eggs. Beat 
to a cream six ounces of firesh buttor, with 
the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; 
put it into the mortar, with the grated peel 
of one lemon, and mix all thcwoughly. Line 
the patty-pans with paste, fill th«n three 



CAKE 



38 



CAKE 



{Murts fiill, and bnke them in a moderate 
oven. 

CAKES, POTATO CHEESE. (2) 
Pound in a mortar five ounoes of potatoes 
with four of fi«8h butter, and the eame quan- 
tity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel 
and juice of half a lemon, three well-beaten 
cegs, and a taUe-qioonfiil of farandv; mix 
aU well together, and bake as be&re di- 
rected. 

CAKES, PARLIAMENT. Put into a 
sauce pan two pounds of treacle, and when 
it boils, add a quarter of a poiuid of butter, 
and pour it upon two pounds of jSour; add a 
little alum, and a bit of pearlash about the 
siaeof anut,andanounceof ffinger. Work 
it well with the hand till quite smooth ; let 
at stand a day and a night, then roll it out 
▼eiy thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. 

CAKE, POUND. (1) Take one pound 
of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity 
of siiWd loaf sugar, and of fi^vah butter wash- 
ed in rose water ; the well-beaten yolks of 
twelve, and tlie whites of six eggs ; then 
witli the hand beat the butter to a cream, 
by degrees add the sugar, then the egga and 
the mNU*; beat it all well together for an 
hour. Bake it in b tin pan buttered, or in 
small ones in a quick oven. 

CAKE, POUND. (2) Take of dried 
and sifted flour, sifted k>sif sugar, fresh but- 
ter, cleaned and dried currants, one pound 
each, and twelve eggs ; then whisk the yolks 
and whites of the eoBi separately, while 
another with the hand beats the butter to a 
cream ; and as the froth rises upon the eggs 
add it to the butto*, and continue so doinff 
till it is all beaten in; mix the flour and 
sugar together, and add them by d^rees; 
the last thing, mix in the currants, together 
with a glass of brandv. It will require to 
be beaten durine a whole hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. ° 

CAKE, POUND. (3) To a pound of 
sifted sugar, add a pound of fresh butter, and 
mix them with the hand ten minutes; put to 
them nine yolks and five whites of eggs well- 
beaten ; whisk all well, and add a pound of 
•ifted flour, a few caraway seeds, a quarter 
of a pound of candied orange-peel cut into 
slices, a few cuirants washed and picked, 
and mix all togetlier as light as possible. 

CAKE, QUEEN. Beat one pound of 
butter to a cream, with some rose water, 
one pound of flour dried, one pound of sifted 
ainar, twelve e^;8; beat all well together; 
nda a few currants waslied and dried ; butter 
■mall' pans of a size for tlie purpose, grate 



sugar over tbem; they are soon baked. They 
may be done in a Dutch oven. 

CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- 
peel, shred fine, into a stevrpan, with two 
ounces of sugar, a small pinch of sah, a 
pieceof butter hsJf the size of ancsg,a glass 
of water, and feur or five spoonfiiuof fkrar; 
stir over the fire till the paste becomes thick, 
and begins to adhere to the stewpan ; theo 
take it off, put in an ^g, and stir it in the 
paste till it is well mixra; ccmtinue to add 
one ^;g at a time, till the paste softens with- 
out becoming liquid; tben put in some 
dried oranse flowers, and two bitter almond 
biscuits, the whole shred fine; make the 
paste into little cakes, about the size round 
of a half<:rown ; put them on buttered papa*, 
gild them with the yolk of an egg b«it up, 
and bake half an hour in an oven moderately 
hot. 

CAKE, RICH. To two pounds and a 
half of dried and sifted flour allow the same 
quantity of fresh butter washed with rose- 
water, two pounds of finely^unded loaf 
sugar, tiiree pounds of cleaned and dried 
currants, one nutm^ grated, half a pound 
of sweetmeats cut small, a quarter of a 
pound of blanched almonds pounded with a 
little rose-water, and twenty eggs, the yolka 
and whites separately l)eaten. The butter 
must be beaten with the hand till it become 
like cream; then add the sugar, and by 
degrees tlie e^, after these the rest of the 
inp^redients, mixing in at last the currants, 
with a tea-cupfiil of brandy, and nearly as 
much orange-flower water. This mixture 
must he boiten together rather more than 
an hour, then put into a cakepan, which has 
previously been buttered and lined with but- 
tered paper; fill it rather more than three- 
quartera full. It should be baked in a 
moderate oven ^r three hours, and then 
cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand 
sometime at the mouth of the oven. 

CAKE, RICE. (1) Whisk ten eggs for 
half an hour, add to them half a pound of flour 
of rice, half a pound of pounded and sifted 
loaf susur, and the grated peel of two lemons; 
mix this into half a pound of firesh butter, 
previously beatoi to a cream. Bake the 
cake in a tnittered tin. 

CAKE, RICE. <2) Take six ounces of 
ground rice, six ounces of floor, threeK|oar- 
ters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine eggs, 
the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix 
all well together, grate in the rind oi a lemony 
and beat it well half an hour. 

CAKES, UrrL^ RICE. Whisk weO 
six yolks and two whites of ^ggs; then with 



CAKE 



39 



CAKE 



a bom noon beat in six onnoes of findv- 
pouoded loaf sugar, add eight ounces of sift- 
ed ground rice, and two tuUe-spoonfub of 
orange-dower or rose water, or the ^ted 
peel of a lemon, and just before the mixtive 
IS to be put into the tins, stir into it six 
ounces of fresh butter melteid; dust the patty 
pans with flour, or rub them with butter; 
ISL them be half filled, and bake the cakes 
in a quick oven. 

CAKES, SMALL ROUT. Rub into 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of butter, six ounces oi pounded and 
sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of two well- 
beaten eggii ; mix them all into a paste with 
a little rosewater; divide the quantity, put 
a few dried currants or caraw^ seeds into 
one half; roll out the paste, cot it into small 
round cakm, and bake them opon buttered 
tins. 

CAKE RICE, ▲ SWEET duh. Wash 
well and drain a quartnr of a pound a( rice. 
Boil with a quart of fresh cream the peel o[ 
one lemon, and when nearly cold take it out 
and put intherice; place the sauce pan over 
a slow fire, and when the rice has swollen, 
add a little sah, and sweeten with pounded 
knfsuear; whcnthe rice is quite tender, add 
the yoiKs oi ei^t egg[8, and mix in gradually 
the beaten whites, with a good bit of fivsn 
butter, and pour it into a mould ; turn this 
round, that the butter may equally coTer 
erery part of it, than pour out the butter, and 
strew over the inside a byor of grated bread ; 
with a paste brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle 
all over it some of the clarified batter, add 
more |;rated bread, pour in the rice, and 
bake it in a moderate ovoi for an hour. 
Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with 
or without a jg[amiahing of preserved rasp- 
berries, cherries, or currants. 

CAKES, SPANISH. Rub, till quite 
fine and smooth, one pound of butter with 
two pounds of flour, then add a pound of 
good brown sugar, rolled finfi; mix all to- 
gether with four well-beaten ^gs; break 
the paste into small bits or knobs,andbake 
them upcm floured tins. 

CAKES, SHREWSBURY. Take a 
pound of butter, and put it in a little flat 
pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, dien 
take one pound of powdered sugar, a little 
cinnamon and mace pounded, and four ^^> 
yolks and whites together ; beat them with 
your hand till it is very light; then take one 
pound and a half of nittod flour, work it 
together, and roll it on your dresser, to what 
size you like, only very flat, let your oven be 
rather dow, and let them change their color, 
then take them out. 



CAKE, SPONGE. (1) Weiglitenegyi, 

and their weight in very fine au^, and that 
of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the floor, 
and the whites ak>ne, to a very stiflf iinoth: 
then by degie e s mix the whites and the flour 
with ttiQ other ingredients, and beat them 
well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an 
hour. 

CAKE, SPONGE. (2) Take the juwa 
and grated rind o( a lemon, twelve eggs, 
twelve ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, 
the same of dried and siAedfiour; then with 
a horn spoon beat the yoJks often ens» add 
the sugar by degrees, and beat it tilTit will 
stand when dropped from the spoon; put in 
at separate times the two other eggs, yolks 
and whites ; whisk the ten whites knt eight 
minutes, and mix in the lemon-juice, and 
when quite stifl", take as much as the whisk 
will lift, and put it upon the yolks and sugar, 
which must be beaten all the time; mix in 
liffhtly the flour and grated peel, and poor it 
aiDsTadually over the whites; stir it together, 
ancf bake it in a buttered tin, or in small 
tins; do not more than half fill them. 



CAKES, SHORT. Dissolve half a 
pound of fivsh butter in as much milk as 
will make a pound and a half of flour into 
a paste, roll it out about a quarter of an 
inch tlhick, and cut it into large round cakes. 
Do them in afiying-pan, and serve them hot. 
The^ are eaten with butter. 

CAKES, SALLY LUNN. Take <»e 
pint of milk quite warm, a quarter of a pint 
of thick small-beer yeast ; put them into a pan 
with flour sufficient to make it as thick as 
batter,— cover it over, and let it stand till it 
has risen as high as it will, t. e. about two 
hours: add two ounces of lump sugar, dis- 
solved in a quarter of a pint ol warm milk, 
a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into 
your flour v^ fine ; th»i make your douefa 
the Mme as for French rolls, &c. ; and tet 
it stand half an hour; then make up your 
cakes, and put them on tins: whoi they have 
stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. 
Cai« should be taken never to put your 
yeast to water or milk too hot, or too cold, aa 
either extreme will destroy the fermentation. 
In summer it should be lukewarm, in winter 
a little wanner, and in very cold weather, 
wanner still. When it has first risen, if you 
are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand an 
hour. 

CAKES, SUGAR. Take half a pound 
of dried flour, the same quantity otfi^sh 
butter washed in rose water, and a quarter 
of a pound of sifted loaf sugar; then mix 
together the flour and sugar: rub in the but- 
I ter, and add the yolk of an egg beaten with 



CAKE 



40 



CALP 



m taUe-mooiiful of eream; make it into a 
paste, roU, and cut it into small round cakes, 
which bake upon a floured tin. 

CAKES, TEA. With a pound oTfloor 
rob half a pound of butter; add the beaten 
yolks of two, and the white of one egg, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
and a few caraway seeds; mix it to a paste 
with a little warm milk, cover it with a 
doth, and let it stand before the fire for 
nearly an hour ; roll out the paste, and cut it 
into round cakes with the top of a glass, and 
bake them upon floured tins. 

CAKE, TWELFTH. Two nounds of 
sifted flour, two pounds of sifted loaf su- 
ear, two pounds of batter, eighteen egga, 
tour poimds of currants, one half pound of 
almonds blandbed and diopped, one half pound 
of citron, one pound of candied orange and 
lonoB peel cut into thin slices, a huve nut- 
meg grated, half an ounce of ground aflsfMce ; 
ground cumamon, mace, ginger, and ccnrian- 
ders, a quarter of an otmoe of each, and a 
gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stew- 
pan, in a waim place, and work it into a 
smooth cream with the hand, and mix it 
with the siwar and spice in a pan, (or on 
yfoar paste board) for sometime ; then break 
m the ^p^ by degrees, and beat it at least 
twenty minutes ; stir in the brandy, and then 
the flour, and work it a little ; add the firuit, 
sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all to- 
gether lightly ; have ready a hoop cased with 
paper, on a baking-(^te ; put in the mixture, 
smooUi it on the top with yoiv hand, dipped 
in milk ; put the phte on another, with saw 
dust between, to prevent the bott<»n from 
coloring too much: bake it in a slow oven 
four hours or more, and when nearly cold, 
ice it with icing. This mixture would make 
a handsome aUte, foil twehre or fourteen 
inches over. 

CAKE, WHITE. Take of dried and 
sifted flour,of fresh butter and of flnely-pound- 
ed loaf sugar, one pound each ; five well4)eaten 
eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, of candied 
(M-ange and lemon peel, cut small, three quar- 
ters of an ounce each ; one ounce of cara- 
vfBy seeds, half a grated nutmeg, a glass of 
brandy, and a littfe rose vrater; tlKn beat 
the butter to a cream, and add sdl the other 
ingredients to it, and at the last mix in one ta- 
MeHspocMiiul <^ fi^esh yeast; let the cake rise 
before the fire for haff an hour. Bake it in 
a buttered tin. Instantly upon taking it 
out of the oven, with a feather, brush the 
top all over with the beaten white of an egg, 
and then sift loaf sugar upon it. Let it 
stand at the mouth of die oven to harden. 

CAKES, YEAST. Take a pound of 



flour, two pounds of currants, wadied and 
picked, a quarter of a pound c^ fi:esh butter 
a quarter of a pound of Lidbon siffiar, a qoar- 
ter of a pound (^citron andcancued orange- 
peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a 
small quantity of each pounded and sifted. 
Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, 
put in a gill of sweet wine, a little vraim 
milk, mix all to||ether, fiH a hoop with it, 
let it ronain till it rises, and bake it. 

CAKES, YORKSHIRE. Taks two 
pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces 
of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, 
three spoonfols of yeast, and two eggs ; beat 
all wdl together, and lei it rise; then knead 
it, and mu&e it into cakes; let them rise oa 
tins before you bake, which do in a slow 
oven. Another sort is made as above, leav- 
ing out the butter. The first is shorter, die 
last lightor. 

CAKE, BISCUIT. One pound of floor, 
five e^ well-beaten and strained, eight 
ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flovrer 
water, beat the whole diorougl%, and bake 
it for one hour. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with Otstxbs. 
Blanch and dean the brains, then wipe them 
dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll 
them in bread cmmtis; firy them in boiling 
lard till of a good color, drain them very 
dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either 
white or brown. Garnish vvith broiled ham 
cut in smaD round pieces. 

CALF'S BRAINS, deaase two calves' 
brains, and stew them in stock with twp or 
three spoonfiib of vinegar, a bunch of pan- 
ley, scallions, a clove of garlic, three 
cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil; whra suffi- 
ciendy stewed, cot radi piece of the brain 
in two, dip them in a batter made of two 
handfols of floor, dilated with a little oil, half 
a pint of white wine, and sak. Fry them in 
lard until the batter is aisp and the brains 
of a gold color. 

CALF'S BRAINS, with pried par- 
sley. Blanch three or four brains of 
nearly an equal size; parboil them, and 
take off* the dein ; dien boil them in water, 
with a little salt, vinq^ar and butter. Serve 
them widi a sauce made of a little browned 
butter, a table-spoonfiil of vinegar, some salt 
and pepper, and some parsley fiied very 
green. 

CALF'S CHITTERUNGS. Cutdwm 
open with scissors, wadi and cleanse them 
thoroughly, lay diem for a night into salt- 
and-water, then wash them vmO, parboil 
and cut them into small pieces, dip mem i» 



CALF 



41 



CALF 



to a duck batter, wMooed with pepper, 
mU, and • little while wine. Fry tfaeoi of 
a light brown color in beef dripping; eenne 
with a fiinge of fried ponley. Or, After 
being parboiled, they may be roasted, when 
they moet be conttantly baated with butter, 
dredged with €our to froth them nicely; 
then aerred with melted batter, and lemlim 
pickle poored over them. Or, They may 
be baked — when, after beii^ parboiled, th^ 
are nibbed over with batter, and put into 
the oven on an iron frame, which ia placed 
in a deef> didi. This oblung frame of 
vHiiite iron, about two inchea hicfa, will be 
found uaoftil in baking every kind of meat. 



CALF'S CHAUDRON, FRICASSEE. 
Parboil a calf's chaudron, and whra cold, 
cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts; 
season them witlualt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, 
mace, an onion, tarragon, and persl^, shrod 
fine ; fiy them in a Jadlefol o( good btuUi 
and fresh butter; make a sauce of mutton 
gravy, orange and lemon juice, eggs' yolks, 
and grated nutmeg; toss up these ingredi- 
ents with the chaudron, then dish it and 
serve. 

CALF'S-FEET PUDDING. Set Pud- 
dinga, 

CALF'S FEET JELLY. Set Jelly » 

CALF'S FEET, POTTED. Boil die 
feet as lor jelly, pick all the meat from the 
ItxMies, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little 
salt, pepper, and outm^, garlic, a shallot 
and some shred ham ; simuier it for half an 
hour, dip a mould into water, put in a lay- 
er of the meat, then some neatly-^ut pickled 
beet root, and some boiled miiioed parsley, 
then a layer of meat, and so on, till the 
mould be filled; when cold, tarn it out. 
Garnish with pickled ^gs, beet root, and 
parsley. 

CALF'S FEET, PLAIN. Scald, clean, 
and blanch some calves' feet, boil them till 
the bones will come out, then stew them in 
a blanc. See Calf's Head, plain. When 
done, drain and save them with parsley 
and butter. 

CALF'S HEAD, HASHED. BoU the 
head almost enou^, and take the meat of 
the best side neatly fipom the bone, and lay 
it in a small dish ; wash it over with ifaie 
yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, 
a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg, all mixed together previously. 
Set the dish before the fire, and keep turn- 
ing it now and then, that all parts may be 
eij^atty brawn, b the meantime slice the 
remainder of the head, and the tongue, 

4* 



(peeled) ; pot a pint of good gravy inlo a 
pan, with an ooioo, a snnD banch of harbs^ 
(coDsistiiig of panley, basO, savory, tanra* 
gon, knotted manoram, and a little thyme), 
a little sak and Cayeone, a shallot, a glaai 
of Sherry, and a litUe owster liquor: boifthia 
for a few minutes, ana strain it upon tha 
meat, which must be sprinkled wiUk fioor. 
Add some fiesh or pickled mush rooms, a 
few truffles and morels, and two spoonfiib of 
catchup; beat up half the bfains, and put 
them to the rest, with a bit of butter and 
fiour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other 
part of the brains with shred lemoo-peel, a 
little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, 
and an egg; fiy this in little cakes of a fine 
gold color; dip some oysters into the yolk 
of an egg, ami fry the same way, also some 
good foi'cemeat balls, and garnish tfie dish 
with them. 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP, OR MOCK 
turtle:. See Soupe. 

CALF'S HEAD. Widi a sharp knife 
cut all the meat entire ftom the bone, cut 
out the t(Higue, and carefiilly take out the 
brains; lay them all in cold water f«Mr two or 
three hours. Mince very small two pounds 
of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet, 
with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, 
some sweet herbs, grated leinon-peel, nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt ; mix them a'ell tosether, and 
oind it with the volks of four e^ beaten up ; 
reserve as mudfi of the fiwcemeat as will 
make twenty small balls: wash the head 
clean, wipe it dry, and put the forcemeat in- 
to the inside; close it, wad tie it firmly with 
tape ; put it into a stew|)an with two quarts 
of gravy, half a pint of white wine, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it closely, and 
let it stew gently ; bull the tongue, cut it in- 
to thin slices, mince the brains with a little 
parsley and a table^poonful of flour, add 
some pepper, sak, gi'ated lemon-peel, and 
nutrn^; beat two ^gs and mix with the 
brains, drop it with a spocm in small cakes 
I into a pan of boiling dripping, and fi^ 
I them of a li^t brown color. Fry the force- 
! meat balls, and drain them, with' the cakes, 
upon the bgu^k of a sieve before the fire ; 
when the head has Mewed till it be suffic- 
iently tender, put it into a didi and take off 
the tape, strain the gravy, and thicken it 
with a table-i^iooniul of floor of rice, and a 
little bit of butter; if not well seasoned, add 
more sak and pepper, put in the tcmgue, 
make it all hot, and pour it over the head. 
Garnish with the brain-cakes, forcemeat 
balls, »"d out lemon. 

CALF'S HEAD, ROASTED. Wash 

and dean it well, parboil it, take ool 
the bones, brains, and tongue; make force- 



CALP 



4S 



CALF 



meat sufficient for the head, and some 
balls with bread cnimbs, minced suet, pars- 
ley, erated ham, and a little pounded veal, 
or ooid fowl ; season with pepper, kJt, ^ted 
notm^, and lemon-peel; bmd it with an 
^g, beaten up, fill the head with it, which 
must then be sewed up, or rastened with 
skewers and tied. While roasting, baste it 
well with butter; beat up the Ixtiins with a 
little cream, the yolk of an eg^, some minc- 
ed parsley, a little pepper and salt ; blanch 
the tongue, cut it into slices, and fry it 
with the brains, forcemeat balls, and thin 
slices of bacon. Serve the head with white 
or brown thickened gravy, and place the 
tongue, forcemeat balls, and brains i*oand it. 
Gramish with cut lemon. It will require 
one hour and a half to roast. 

CALF»S HEAD, PLAIN, aean a 
calTs head nicely, and cut out the bone of 
the lower jaw, and of the nose, taking out 
the nose bone as close to the eyes as possi- 
ble ; wash the bead well in warm water, 
and let it blanch in some clean water. Pre- 
pare a blanc, or sauce, as follows: — One 
pound >of beef suet, and one pound of fat 
bacon, cut small, half a pound of butter, a 
bunch of parsl^, a little thyme, two or 
three bay loives, one or two onions, and the 
juice of a lemon ; season with salt, pepper, 
mace, cloves, and allspice; boil all this an 
hour in six pints of v\rater, then tie up the 
head in a cloth, boil it in the sauce about 
three hours, and drain it; take out the 
tongue, skin and replace it; ser\-e quite 
hot, with the following sauce-~minced shal- 
lots, parsley, the brains minced, some vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, SOUSED. Scald 
and bone a calPs head, and soak it for sev- 
en or eight hours, changing the water twice ; 
dry it well. Season with salt and bniised 
garlic; roll it up, bind it very tight, and 
boil it in white wine, salt and water; when 
done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and 
keep it for use. Serve up either whole, or 
in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. 

CALF'S HEAD, BIGAREE. Clean 
and blanch a calPs head, boil it till the 
bones will come out easily, then bone and 
press it between two dishes, so as to give it 
an oblong form ; beat with the yolks of four 
^p a little melted butter, pepper, and sah. 
Divide the head when cold, and brush it all 
over with the beaten czm, and strew over it 
grated bread ; repeat uis twice. With the 
grated bread, which is put over one half, a 
ffood quantity of finely-minced parsl^ should 
be mixed ; place the head upon a dish, and 
bake it c^ a nice brovm color. Serve it 
widi a Mncip of ywT»lffy and hntter, and 



with one of good gravy, mixed with /th* 
brains which have oeen previously boiled^ 
and chopped, and seasoned with a little 
Cayenne and salt. 

CALF'S HEART, ROASTED. FiD 
the heart with the foibwinff forcemeat: a 
quarter of a pound of beef suet, chopped 
small, srated bread, parsley, marjoram, lem- 
on-peel, pepper, sah^ msttoeg, and the yolk 
of an egg. Lay a veal cau^ or a sheet of 
paper on the stuffing to keep it in its pktoe. 
rut the heart into a Dutch oven, befote a 
clear fire, and turn it fi-equently, till thor- 
oughly roasted all round. Gamisli with 
slices of lemon, and pour mdted butter over 
it. 

CALF LIVER, BROILED. Slice it, 
season with pepper and salt, and broil nice- 
ly: rub a bit of cokl butter on it, and serve 
hut and hot. 

CALF'S UVER, LARDED AND 
ROASTED. Lard a fine calf's liver the 
same as a fricandeau, and let it lie fbr 

twenty-four hours in vin^ar, with .a sliced 
onion, some parsley, a little thyme, a bay 
leaf, some salt and pepper. Roast, and 
baste it well with butter, then glaze it with 
a light glaze, and serve it with a poivrade, 
or any other sauce. 

CALF'S UVER, ROASTED. (1) 
Wash and wipe it ; then cut a long hole in it, 
and stuff it with cnimbs of breeul, chopped 
anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, 
pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg; sew 
the liver up ; lard it, wrap it in a veal canl, 
and roast it. Serve with good brown gra- 
vy and currant jelly. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (2) 

Lard a calf's liver with stieaky bacon; 
roast and baste it frequently with its own 
gravy. 

CALF'S LIVER, ROASTED. (3) 

Lard a fine calf's liver, and pickle it in 
vinegar, with an onion, cut into slices, pan' 
1^, salt, pepper, thyme, and a bey leaf. 
When it has been soaked for twenty^v 
hours, fasten it on a spit, roast and bcuste it 
frequently. Glaze it with a light glaae, bm 
it is naturally of a Uack color. Serve un- 
der it a brown poimrade. 

CALF'S LIVER, SCOLLOPS. Ptar- 
boil and cut into slices a very nice calf 'a 
liver, and shape them into hearts. Stew 
some fine herbs, parsley, shallots, and mush- 
rooms; then add the calf's liver, and let k 
stew over a slow fire; when dm on one 
side, turn and nttmor. it with pepper andS 



CAP 



43 



CAP 



nk; take oat the liver, diedse in a little 
flour omer the herbs, and add some more 
m,yy; let this boil fix* ten mimitee, then 
D«U the liver in the aauce before terring it. 
This may be eaten at break&st. 

CALF'S PLUCK. Wash it tery clean, 
and, if liked, stuff the heart with a force- 
meat, made <^ crumbs of bread, batter, and 
parslcT, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
grated nimneg. Fasten it firmly with the 
liver and lights, tying them to the skewers 
while roastm?; baste it well with butter, 
and froth it me same way in which veal is 
done, and serve it with melted butter, mix- 
ed with a table-epoonfol of lemon pickle, or 
vinegar poured over it. 

CAPER SAUCE. See Sauce. 

CAPILLAIRE. Take foimeen pounds 
of auear, three pounds of coarse su^pr, six 
eggs beat in Mrim the shells, three quarts of 
water; boil it up twice; skim it weN, then 
add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flow- 
er water; strain it through a jellv-bag, and 
pot it into bottles; when cold, mix a 
spoonfol or two of this sirup, as it is liked 
mr sweetness in a draught of warm or cold 
water. 

CAPILOTADE ITALIAN. Cut up 
a cold roast fowl ; then take a good slice 
of butter, and some shred mushrooms and 
potherbs; Sry these till they are about to 
turn brown, with a tea-spoonful of flour; 
then add to them a lai^ glass of white 
wine. Let the whole simmer togetlier for a 
quarter of an hour; next put in the pieces 
of fowl, amd heat them up for a few minutes. 
Garnish your dish with u-ied slices of In-ead; 
and just before you serve, pour into the 
saucepan Iwo table-spoonfuls of oil, t^ing 
care that it does not boil, and stir it up weU 
with the sauce. 

CAPONS OR FOWLS, Must be kiU- 
ed a couple of days in moderate, and more 
in cold weather, before they are dressed, or 
diey will eat tougli: a good criterion of the 
ripeness of poultry for the spit, is the ease 
with wliich ynu can tlien pull out the feathers ; 
wlien a fowl is plucked, leave a few to help 
you to ascertain this. They are managed 
exactly in the same manner, and sent up 
with the same sauces as a turkey, only they 
require propcntionably less time at the fire. 
A foil-grown five-toed fowl, about an hour 
and a quarter. A moderate-sized one, an 
hour A chicken, from thirty to forty min- 
utes. Here, also, pork sausages fried are 
in general a fovorite accompaniment, or 
turkejr stuffing; see foroemeals; pot in plen- 
ty of it, so as to plump oat the fowl, which 



most be tied cVwelr (both at the neck and 
rump), to keep in the stuffing. Some cookf 
put the liver of the fowl into this forcemeat, 
and othen mince it and poond it, and rub it 
op with floor and melted batter. When 
the but! is stuflfed and tnased, score the 
f izmrd nioelv, dip it into melted batter, let 
It drain, and then season it with Qiyenne 
and sak ; put it under one pinion, and the 
liver under the other ; to prevent their get- 
ting hardened or scorched, cover them with 
double paper buttered. Take care that 
your routed poultry be well browned ; it It 
as indispensable that roasted poultry riiould 
have a ricli brown complexion, as boiled 
poultry should have a debcate white one. 

CAPON, TO CHOOSE. Ifitisyoun^, 
his spurs on short and his legs smooth ; if 
a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his 
breast, the comb pale, and^ thick belly and 
rump; if fresh, he will have a close hard 
vent; if stale, a loose open vent. 

CAPON. THE FRENCH WAY. Take 
a quart of white wine, season the capon 
with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a few 
sliallots ; and dien put the capon in an earth- 
en pan ; you must take care it has not room 
to shake ; it must be covered close, and done 
over a slow charcoal fire* 

CAPON PASTY. Roast a alpon, let 
it be cold, take the flesh from the bones and 
slice it, but keep the diiglis and pinions 
whole. Add to tlie flesh of the capon, four 
sweetbreads and half a pint of oysters, sea- 
son tliem with salt, cloves, nrnmes, and 
mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyu, and 
thyme, minced; lay a sheet of paper or 
paste in your pasty-pan, and lay the thighs 
and pinions on tlie bottom, and strew (hem 
over with sliced onions, then put in tlie 
flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and die 
oysters, cut in halves; over these strew a 
handful of chestnuts, boiled and blanclied, 
dien put batter over diem, close up your pan 
and bake it ; when done, add gravy, good 
stock, drawn butter, apchovies, and grated 
nutmeg ; garnish with slices of lemon, and 
serve. Turk^ may be done in the same 
manner. 

CAPONS A LA TURQUE. Pick, 
and clean very nicely, two fine capons ; wash 
the inside perfectly clean with warm water, 
and let them soak in warm water for a 
quarter of an hour; dry them well, and put 
into diem some rice which has been boiled 
till s(^ in some rich well-seasoned stock, 
truss and cover them wich layers of bacon, 
wrap them in fopect and roast them for an 
boor by a hanging-jack ; serve them, pot- 
ting all roond the dish a part of the rice 



CAR 



44 



Ci^R 



n^iicli was prepared finr tbe stuflBng, and 
poor over the fowls a veloute sauce. One 
fine lai|pe fowl may be dressed in this 
manner. 

CAPSICUMS, TO PICKLE. Gather 
tbe pods, with the stalks on, before they turn 
red ; cut a slit down the side with a pen- 
knife, and take^t all the seeds, but as lit- 
tle of the meat as possible; lay them in a 
strong brine for three days, changing it eve- 
ry day; then take them out, lay them on a 
cloth, and lay another over them tiU they 
are quite dry; boil vinegar enough to cover 
them, put m some mace and nutmeg beat 
small ; put the pods into a glass or jar, and 
when tlie liquor is cold, pour it over, then 
tie a bladder and leather over them. 

CARDOONS, WITH CHEESE. String 
and cut them an inch long, put them into a 
saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, stew them till they are tender, 
put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
when of a proper thickness pour tliem into 
a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into 
the sauce, and scrape over them some Par- 
mesan dr Cheshire cheese, and then brown 
them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high 
a color. 

CARDOONS, TO DRESS. Cut them 
in pieces six inches long, and put them on a 
string ; boil till tender, have ready a piece 
of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They 
may also be tied in bundles, and served as 
asparagus boiled on a toast, and pour but- 
ter over, 

CARDOONS, SPANISH. Cut them 
into lengdis of tliree inches, be careful not 
to use those which are hollow and green ; 
boil tliem for half an hour, then put them 
into lukewarm water to cleanse them from 
tbeir slime ; tlien dress them in some stock, 
with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, 
roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ver- 
juice, and a little butter ; when done, put 
them into a cuUis with some stock ; cook 
them for an hour in tliis sauce, and serve. 

CARROTS. Let them be well washed 
and brushed, not scraped. An hour is 
enough for young sfxring carrots ; grown car- 
rots must be cut in half, and will take fh)m 
an hour and a half to two hours and a half. 
When done, rub off the peels with a clean 
coarse cloth, and slice them in two or four, 
according to their size. The best way to 
try if they are done enough, is to pierce them 
with a fork. Many people are fond of cold 
carrot witli cold beef^; nsk if you shall cook 
enough for some to be left to send up with 
ihe cold mP3t. 



CARAMEL, OR BOILED SUGAR 
Break into a small copper or brass pan, one 
pound of refined su^i — put in a gill of 
spring water ; — set it on a fire, and when 
it boils, skun It quite clean, and let it boil 
quick, till it comes to the degree called 
Crack, which may be known b^ dipping a 
teaspoon or skewer into the sugar, and let 
it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold water ; 
and if it remains hard, it has attained that 
degree ; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, 
and let it remain one minute longer on the 
fire, then set the pan into another of cold 
water: — have ready moulds of any shape, 
— rub them over with sweet oil, dip a spoon 
or fork into the sugar, and throw it over the 
mould in fine tlireads, till it is quite covered: 
— make a small handle of caramel, or stick 
on two or three small gum paste rings, by 
way of ornament, and place it over small 
pastry of any description. 

CARP, BOn^D. Scale and clean a 
brace of carp, reserving the liver and roe; 
take half a pint of vinegar, or a quart of 
sharp cider, add as much water as will cov- 
er die fish, a piece of horse-radish, an onion 
cut into slices, a little salt, and a la^ot of 
sweet herbs ; boil the fisli in this liquor, and 
make a sauce as follows : — strain some of 
the liquor the fish has been boiled in, and 
put to it tlie liver minced, a pint of Port 
wine, two anchovies, two or three heads of 
sliallots chop|jed, some salt and black pep- 
per, a little Cayenne, a table-spoonfld of soy ; 
boil and strain it, tliicken it with flour and 
butter, pour it over the carp hot, garnish 
with the roe fried, cut lemon and parsley. 

CARP, STEWED. Scale and clean 
a brace of carp, reserving tlie liver and 
roe ; pour over the fish in a deep pan a pint 
of vinegar, which may be elder vinegar, if 
the flavor is preferred, with a little mace, 
tliree cloves, some salt and Jamaica pepper, 
two onions sliced, a ^iggot of parsley, basil, 
thyme, and marjoi'am; let tliem soa]^ an 
hour, then put them in a stewpan with the 
\in^;ar, and other things, the liver chopped, 
a pint of Madeira, and three pints of veal 
stock; stew them an hour or two accord- 
ing to their size ; take out tbe fish and put 
them over a pan of hot water to keep warm 
while the following sauce is made:--Strain 
the liquor, and add the yolks of three eggs 
beaten, half a pint of cream, a large spoon- 
fiil of flour, and a quarter of a pound of 
butter, stir it constantly, and just before 
putting it over the carp, squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon. Bofl or firy the roe. 
Plain boiled carp may be served with this 
sauce, and is dished in a napkin. 

CARP, FRIED. Clean and scale t 



CAU 



4S 



CHA 



cvpi B^Bt H op tiiB bsnj M l l Mi ai6 back* 
bone, sprinkle yoct firii widi wontp theii 
ipraUe the roM whicb have been put Made, 

Ctbe wIk^ into • ^jw^'OBSb mode 
, frv to a rich ookNT, maa ferfe it wii 



CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or 
diree boiled earrots to a pulp with a Bpotm; 
add to diem aix ecga and a naadlhi of flour; 
moisten ihem will either creaa, milk, or 
white wine, and eweetea them. Beat aH 
together weQ, and fir in boiling hod. When 
or a good color, take them oh and aqoeeae 
on them die jnice of a fierillB orange, and 
stxvw ow one mgar. 



CARROT PUDDING. See 



CASSILE. Mix two tribfe-epoodbb of 
potato-flocBT with two or three of cream or 
good mi&; boil Ibr a few mimilee with a 
quart of cnam or m3c, the peel of a lemon 
and a bit of cinnamon ; atir it with the flour 
and cream J sweeten, and stir it agam over 
die fire fcr dma or Ibar minutes; pour it in- 
to a monld ; tan it out when ecU* 

CAtTLIFLOWiaL Ghoose Aoss diat 
are close and white, and of themiddfe siae; 
trim off the oQtside leaves ; cut die sCeA off 
ffett at the bottom; let them lie in salt and 
water an hoigr bsfcre yon boil them. Put 
iSiem into boiling water widi a handfidof 
sah in it; skim it weM, and let it boil slow- 
ly t31 done, whidi a smaB one will be in fl^ 
teen, a lane one m about twenty minutes ; 
take it up me moment it is enonrh, a min- 
ute or two b^ger boiling will spod it. 

CAULIPLOWBR3 OR BROCO(H.I, 
FICKZiED. Choose dtoee diat are hard, 
yet sufficiently npe, cot away die leaves and 
stalks. Set on a stewpan half fall of water, 
salted in proportion of a quarter of a pound 
of sah to a quart of water; throw m the 
cauliflower, and let it heat gradnafly; when 
it boils tsdke it up with a spoon fliU of holes, 
and spread diem on a cloth to dry before 
die fire, for twenty-fotar hours at least ; when 
quite dry, put tfaiem, piece by piece, into 
jars or fflaas tie-overs, and cover diem with 
the piclue we have directed for beet roots, 
or make a pickle Ir^ infosinff three ounces 
of the curry powder vxe three days in a quart 
of vinegar by die side of the fire. Nastur- 
tiums are excellent prepared as above. 

CAUUFM)WERS, PICKLED. Cut 

die cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them 
into boiling watra* for a quarter of an hour; 
dien lay them on cloths to drain. Put them 
in a jar with cbves and salt, and cover 
dnm m&i the best vinegar. 



CAUUPLOWER SALAD. Whsa 

you have prepared and boiled the eai^ 
flowers, drain and let them cool ; eat thsm 
in pieces; season them with salt, pepper, 
oil and ▼inegar, aud eat them as ai^ other 



CAUDI^. (1) Boa up half a pint of 
fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a 
huge nudneg, a hrfe spoonful <^ brandy, 
the same o^ white wme, one of capittaire, a 
piece of leBDOO-peel, and nutmeg* 

CAUDUS. (2) Make a fine smoodi 
gmel of hal^grits; when boiled, strain it, 
stv it at times till cold. When wanted for 
OK, add sugar, wine, and lemo n p e el , with 
some nnlmeg. According to taste, you may 
add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoon- 
fid of brandy, or lemdo-juice. 

CAUDLE, BROWN. Boil dm grael 
thesaase as for white candle, with six spoon- 
fids of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a 
quart of good ale, not bitlier; boil it, then 
sweeten it according to yoor taste, and add 
half a pint of while wine. When you do 
not put in the white wine, let it be udf ale. 



CAUDLE, COLD. Boil a qoart of 
spring water; when cold, add the yolk of 
an egff, the jiuoe of a smafl bmon, six spoon- 
fidi of sweet wme, sugar to your taste, and 
one ounce of sinip of lemoas. 

CECILS. Mni over the fire for a few 
mkiutes die following mgredients: minced 
meat of whatever kind you pl ease , bread 
crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon-peel, nm- 
meg, parney chopped, pepper, salt, a little 
butter, and some andwvies. Whra nearfy 
ooM, roll them up into baUs about the size 
of an egg ; moisten them with egg, strew 
bread crumbs over them, and fi*y tinem of a 
good clear color: serve them with made 
gravy. 

CELERY, TO STEW. Wash and 
clean some heads of celery, cut diem into 
pieces of two or three mches long, boil 
them in Teal stock till tender. To half a 
pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of 
two ^gs, a bit of lemon-peel, grated nut- 
meg, and salt, also a bit cA butter ; make it 
hot, stirring it constantly ; strain it upon die 
celery; heat it thoroughly, but do not let it 
boil. 

CHARLOTTE. (1) CM a suflksient 
number of thin slices of white bread to cover 
the bottom and luie the sides of a baking- 
dish, first rabbinff it thickly widi butter. 
Put thin 8li(«8 of apples into the dish in 
hyers, tiU die dish is fidl, strewing sugar 



CHE 



46 



CHE 



tad bits of butter between. In the mean* 
time, soak as noany thin alioes of bread aa 
will cover the whole, in warm milk ; over 
vrhkAk place a plate, and a weight, to keep 
the bre»d cloee upiHi the ap^es; let it base 
abwly for three houn. For a.middling- 
Bized dish, you should use half a pound of 
butttf for the whole. * 

CHARLOTTE. (2) This second course 
may be made of any kind of firuit you please, 
ana is eatm hot. If appka are used, pane, 
core, and cut about twenty of them into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan 
with some water, « good piece of firesh but- 
ter, powder-sugar, pounded cinnamon, and 
ffrated lemoU'^ieel, wad stew till the water is 
dried up; then set than to cool in an earth- 
en ware vessel. Cut some very thin slioes 
of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh 
butter, and lay them neatly all over the bot- 
tom and round the sides of die stewpan; 
then pour in the apples, leaving a how in 
the middle, in whidi put apncot marma- 
lade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced 
thin, and buttocd as above. Place it in a 
hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. 

CHARLOTTE DES POMMES. Pare, 
<<^re, and mince fourteen <Nr fifteen French 
rennet apples ; put them into a frying-pan, 
with some pounded loaf sugar, a little pound- 
ed cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and two 
ounces and a half of fiiesh butter; fry them 
a quarter of an hour over a quick fire, stir- 
ring them constantly. Butter a shape of 
the size the diarlotte is intended to be ; cut 
strips of bread about the width of two fin- 
ears, and long enough to reach from the 
bottom to the rim of the shape, so that the 
whole be lined with bread; dip each bit in- 
to melted butter, and thAi put a layer of 
the fried aji^les, and one of apricot jam or 
marmalade, and then one of bread dipped 
into butter; begin and finish with it. Bake 
it in an oven for nearly an hour; turn it out 
to serve it. It may be boiled, and served 
with a sweet sauce. 

CHEESE, BOILED: Grate a quarter 
of a pwind of good cheese, put it rato a 
sauce pan, with a bit of butter the size of a 
nutmeg, and half a tea-cupfiil of milk, stir it 
ovor the fire till it boil, and then add a well- 
beaten 

a gnrmll 



es^ ; mix it all toother, put it into 
dish, and brown it befiye the fire. 



CHEESE, CAKE OF. Take about the 
fourth part of a close, frit Brie cheese, pound 
and nm it throt^ a sieve ; mix with it a 
pint and a half o? flour ; lay it on the board, 
make a liole in the middle, into which put 
three quarters of a pound of butter, and work 
it in well; add to it a little Giuyere cheese 



grated, and six eggs. Knead these all to- 

Sther well ; mould it up, and let it stand 
r half an hour; then roU it out, and make 
it into a cake of about three inches; mark 
it with a knife on one side in chequers, and 
on the other inlays; dtr'tZf and bake it in 
a moderate oven. 

CHEESE CREAM. Warm three haU 
pints of cream with one half pint of milk, 
<x according to the same proportion, and 
putalittlerennetlo.it; keep it covered in 
a warm place till it is curdled; have a pro- 
per mould with holes, either of China or any 
othor; put the curds into it to drain, about 
an hour, or less: serve with a good plain 
cream, and pounded sugar over it. 

CHEESECAKES. (1) Put two quarts 
of new milk into a stewpan^ set it near the 
fire, and stir in two taUe-spooofiils of ren- 
net: let it stand till it is set (this will take 
about an hour); break it well with yoor 
hand, and let it remain half an hour ]on^; 
then poor off the whey, and put the curd mto 
a colander to drain; when quite dry, put it 
in a, mortar, and pound it quite smooth; 
then add four ounces of siu;ar, pounded and 
sifted, and three ounces of firean batter; oil 
ittfirst by putting it ia a little pottinff-pot, 
and setting it near the fire ; stir it -all well 
together: oeat the ^Iks of four eggs in a 
bc^in, with a little nutm^ grated, lemon- 
peel, and a g^aas of brandy ; add this to the 
curdy with two ounces of currants, washed 
and picked; stir it all well together; have 
your tins ready Imed with puff paste about 
a quarter of an inch thick, notch them all 
round the edge, and fill each with the curd. 
Bake them twoity minutes. When you 
have company, and want a variety, you can 
make a mould of curd and cream, by put- 
ting the curd in a mould fiill of holes, instead 
oi' the colander: let it stand for six houre, 
then turn it out very carefiilly on a dish, and 
pour over it half a pint of sood cream svireet- 
ened wiUi loaf sugar, «na a little nutmeg. 
What there is left, if set in a cool place, 
will make excdloit cheesecakes the next 
day. 

CHEESECAKES. (2) Put a spoonfril 
of rennet into a quart of milk; when turned, 
drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gent- 
ly break the curd, and rub in a quarter c€ 
a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, nutm^, and two Na^iles biscuits 
grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white 
of one, half an ounce of almcmds, half bittmr 
and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, 
with two spoonfols of rose water, four ounces 
of currants; put in the curd, and. mix aH 
together. One quart of milk, and three 
dnsert spocmfiils of rice-flour, six eggSa Imti 



CHE 



47 



CH£ 



fMit tiunoe of the wfaitMf snd 
jour taste. 



to 



CHEESECAKES. (8) Beat aighi 
eggs weH, wbile a Qout o€ milk is on die 
fire, and when it boils, put in the ens, and 
stir thfHU till they come to aoitfd; then pour 
it out, and when it is csAAy put in a little 
aak, two spoonfuls of rose water, and three- 
quarters or a pound (rf'ourrantj well washed ; 
put it into pim paste, and bake it. If you 
use tin patties to bake in, butter them, or 
yon will not be sMe to take them out ; but 
if you bake than in glass or china, only an 
upper crust will be necessary, as you will 
not want to take them out when you send 
them to taUe. 

CHEESECAKES. (4) Take one pound 
of loaf siffiar pounded, six yolks, and four 
whites ofeggs beaton, the juice of three fine 
lemcHis, die grated rind of two, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of fi:e8li butter ; put these in- 
gredients into a saucepan, and stir the mix- 
ture gently over a slow fire till it be <^ tlie 
consistence oi honey; pour it into small 
jars, and when cold put paper dipped in 
brandy over tliem. It will keep good for a 
year. 

CSIEESE, POUNDED. Cut a pound 
of good mellow cheese into thin bits; add 
to It two, and if the cheese is dry, three 
ounces of fresh butter ; pound, and rub tliem 
well together in a mortar till it is quite 
smooth.^ When cheese is dry, and for those 
whoee digestion is feeble, this is the best 
way of eating it ; and spread on bread, it 
makes an excellent luncheon or supper. 
The piquance of this is sometimes increas- 
ed by pounding with iC curry powder, ground 
spice, black pepper, Cayenne, and a little 
made mustard ; and some moisten it with a 
glass of Siieny. If pressed down hard in 
a jar, and covered with clarified butter, 
it will keep for several days in cool weath- 
er. 

CHEESE, ROASTED. Grate three 
ounces of &t cheese, mix it with the 
yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated 
(wead, and three ounces of batter ; b^t the 
whole well in a mortar, with a dessert spoon- 
ful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. 
Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces; 
lay the paste, as above, thick upon them, 
put them into a Dutch oven covered with a 
did], till hot through, remove the dish, and 
le» the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot 
as possible. 

CHEESE, STEWED. Meh thi-ee- 
nuarters of an ounce of batter in a tea-cup- 
nl of cream, mix with it a quarter of a 



pouna 01 fooa cnsese oueiy craisfl, mk tc 
well together; put a slice of toasted brvad 
into a dish, and pour the mixtora oier it* 
and brown it with a tahmandw. 

CHEESE TOASTED, OR RABBIT. 
Oit a slice of biead, toast it, and soak k 
in red wine, put it bdfbre the fire ; cot some 
cheese in very thin slices, and nA> some but- 
ter over the bottom of a plate, 1^ the cheese 
upon it, and pour in two or three nwoniidi 
of white wine, and a little mustaro ; cover 
it with another plate, and set it on a chafing- 
didi of coals two or three minutes, then stur 
it till it is well mixed ; when it is mixed 
enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it 
with a sahmanner. 

CHEESE TOASTED. CM a slice of 
bread about half an inch thick ; pare off the 
crust, and toast it vei^ slighUy on one side 
so as just to brown it, without making it 
liard or burning it. Out a slice of ^od 
fiit mellow dieese, a quarter of an inch 
thick, not so big as the bread by half an 
inch on each side: pare off tlie rincl, cut out 
all tlie specks and rotten parts, and lay it 
on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; 
carefiilly watch it diat it does not burn, and 
stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle 
forming on the surface. Have ready ^lod 
mustard, pepper and salt. If you observe 
the directions here ^iven, the cheese will 
eat mellow, and will be uniformly done, 
and tlie bread* crisp and soft, and will well 
deeei*ve its ancient appellation of a " rare 
bit." This Receipt, as well as every other 
worth extracting, is from the Cook's Oracle. 
The Editor goes on to say. We have noth- 
ing to add to the directions given for toast- 
ing the clieese in tlie last receipt, except that 
in sending it up, it will save much time in 
portioning it out at table, if you have half a 
dozen sniull silver or tin pans to fit (nto the 
cheese-toaster, and do the cheese in diese: 
each person may then be helped to a sepa- 
rate pan, and it will keep the cheese much 
hotter than die usual way of eating it on a 
cold plate. Ofts. — Ceremony seldom tri- 
umphs more completely over comfort than in 
the serving out of this dish ; which, to be 
presented to the palate in perfection, it is 
imperatively indispensable that it be intro- 
duced to the mouth as soon as it appears on 
the table. 

CHERRY BIUNDY. (1) Pick and 
bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the 
same quantity of small black cherries ; let them 
stand for two months in a cask with six 
gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred to- 
gether. At the end of that time it may Yr 
drawn off and bottlbJ. 



CHI 



48 



CHI 



CHERRY BRANDY. (2) 
fine Bound moreila cherries, tiad ha\'wg 
taken off the etallu, place them in layera 
in fflasB jare; strew powder-sugar betweoi 
each layer, and cover them with brandy. 
As soon as the cherries bave imbibed the 
brandy, poor in more, so as to keep (hem 
0(Histantly covered. 

CHERRIES, DRIED. Take large 
cherries, not too ripe; pidt off the stalks, 
and take out the stones with a quill cut 
nearly as for a pen: to three pounds of which 
take three pounos or pints of clarified sugar; 
boil it to the degree of blown ; put in the 
cherries, give them a boil, and set them by 
in an earaien pan till the next day; then 
strain the sirup, add more sugar, and boil 
it of a good consistence; put the cherries in, 
and boil them five minutes, and set them by 
another day: repcBX the boiling two more 
days, and vihea wanted, drain them some- 
tiine, and lay tliem on wire sieves to dry in 
a stove, or nearly cold oven. 

CHERRY PUDDING. See Puddmgt. 

CHERVIL, Is principally used in soups 
and stuffing, and is generally preserved widi 
oilier herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chervil, 
beet, purelain, and cucumbers, if in season, 
quantities according to your liking; wash 
them well; mince and press them in your 
band, to squeeze out all the water. Put 
tliem into a kettle with water, some butter 
and salt, and boil them until the water is 
entirely consumed. Then take them out, 
and when cold, put them into pots; cover 
them with warmed butler. When you 
want to use these herbs, put them into some 
stock that has very little salt in it. If tliey 
are required for a force or garnish, boil them 
a minute or two in some butter; thickoi 
with the yolks of eggs and milk ; when so 
pr^Nured, tliey may be sored under hard 
eggs or broilea fish. For sauce, it must be 
<£opped small, boiled in salt and water, and 
mixed with melted butter. 

CHESTNUTS, Should be placed on the 
fire in a pan with holes to roast ; first slitting^ 
or cutting a notch in the skins^ to [M'event 
tlieir flying <^. Wh«i done, serve them in 
dessert on a napkin, as hot as possible. 
Some boil the chestnuts instead of roasting 
them, as the skins are then cleaner, but the 
nuts not quite so mealy; the better way 
is to boil them in plen^ of water, and 
when nearly done, take them out and roast 
them. 

CHICKENS. Having picked the chick- 
ens, singe them well to remove all the hairs, 
kc, which may remain on the skin; then 



bruise fhe bone close to the foot, and draw 
the strings firom the thisfa. Take out the 
crop by a slit cut in the back of the nedi ; 
then cut off the neck, leaving dtin enoogfa to 
turn over the back. Cut off the vent, and 
takeout the inside, beinffcarefol not to break 
the gall; break the back-boiie and the two 
bones leading to the pinions ; wipe the chick- 
en with a cbth, aiia put in a little pepper 
and salt. If the chicken is to be trussed for 
roasting, proceed asfoUows: — ^Tum the legs 
close down to the apron and run a skewer 
through ; run anotbor skewer in the joint of 
one wing through the body to the other wing; 
and having washed the liver and ffiuard, 
place them in the pini<Mis. For boiling, the 
under part of the thigh must be cut, ami the 
legs placed under the apron, only letting the 
ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast 
very full. 

CHICKEN BROTH. See Broth. 

CHICKENS, BROILED OR GRILL- 
ED. Pick and singe them nicdly, wash 
them clean, and dry them ina cloth ; cut them 
down the back, trass the legs and wings, as 
for boiling; flatten them, and put them uptm 
a cold gndiron ; when they become a little 
dry, put tliem upon a plate, baste them with 
butt«', and strew a little s^ and pepper 
over the inside, which part is laid first upon 
the gridiron ; baste them fi^uently, and let 
them broil slowly for about half an hour. 
Serve tliem very hot, with melted butter 
poured over them, or plenty of stewed mush- 
rooms. The livers and gizzards mav be 
broiled with them, fostened into the wings, 
or well seasoned, broiled, and served with 
the chickens. 

CHICKEN BAKED IN MCE. Out 
a chicken into joints as for a fi^icassee, sea- 
son it well witli pepper and salt, lay it into a 
pudding dish lined with slices of ham or ba- 
con, add a pint of veal grav^, and an onion 
finely minced ; fill up the dish with boiled 
rice well pressed and piled as high as the 
dish wiO hold, cover it with a paste of flour 
and water ; bake it one hour, and before serv- 
ing lake off the paste. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (1) Put tbe 
chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and 
boil a small one for fifteen, a laiqger one 
twenty minutes. 

CHICKENS BOILED. (2) When they 
are drawn and trussed, lay the chickens in 
skim milk for about two hours; thai put 
them into cold water, cover them close, and 
set them over a slow fire, and skim them 
well. As soon as tliey have boiled sIowIvb 
lake them fixun the fire, and let tli^a ronaia 



CHI 



49 



CHt 



in llie wsler clme covered for half an hour; 
then drain and aenre with white mwe. 

CinCK£N» BROILED. Split a cobpfe 
of duckens, take out the inside and back- 
bones, beat them with a wooden spoon, dip 
them in cbrififtd butler, and broil them, the 
innde next the fire (vdiidi shouki be of 
charcoal)* and only turn them to color them. 
Whoi done, pour <mi them a sauce made as 
follows : — ^Bmlsoaie stewed mushroons with 
beef rtock and plain sauce, an equal quanti- 
br of each, until o£ a proper consistence; 
unYot it with leuMm-juioe and Oayenne pep- 
per. 

CHICKENS dflRUVGATE. Havinff 
taken off the feet, beat the bieast bones of 
your chickens flat witboirt breaking the skin, 
floor and fry them in butter ; when of a nice 
bi-own take all the 6it firom the pan, leaving 
in the chickens, over which lay a pound of 
gravy beef cot in thin slices, anotW piece 
of beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, 
pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bundi c^ 
sv^eet herbs: pour a quart of boiling water 
over the whole, cover it quite close, and let 
it stew ; in a quarter of an hour take out 
the chickens, but let the gravy continue 
boiling, and when very rich strain it; then 
put it a^ain into the pan with a little red 
wine and a few mushrooms ; then put in the 
chickens, and when th^ are hot, dish them 
op, and pour the sauce over th^ ; ganiish 
with slices of lemon and broiled ham. 

CHICKENS CREME. (1) Parboil a 
couple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, 
and throw into warm wator for half an hour ; 
then do them over the fire in a little fresh 
butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morels, 
&c. q^inkle with flour, and dilute with a 
glass of boiling water; cover tlie stewpan 
close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the 
water has soaked into the chicken, then add 
half a pint of cream and a little buttm*. The 
yolks of three eggs may be put in also, but 
m that case, a small quantity of verjuice 
should be put in before the cream. 

CHICKENS CREME. (2) Stuff and 
roast your chickens, and when you take them 
fit>m the spit, rub them with nutter, cover 
them with bread-crumbs, wrap them in 
slices of bacon, and bake them a short time ; 
serve with well thickened cream*sauce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (1) Re- 
duce two spoonfuls o( veloute or sauce touV' 
nee, and add to it the yolks of four eggs ; 
put to this the white meat of a chicken 
minced very small, and well mixed with the 
sauce, take it out, and roll it into balls about 
the size of a walnut; roll them in bread- 

5 




crambs, givii^ them on elongaled fona*, 
then dip them in some welmaten 
bread them again, and firy them of a li{ 
brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. (2) Mix 
well into some veiy thick beehamelU and 
some glaxe the brmst of a chicken, some 
tongue, truffles and mushrooms all minced 
rent small ; when quite cold roll them into 
little balls about the siie of a nut, and hav* 
ing beaten up three ^gs throw the balls into 
them. Take them out quickly and roll them 
in bread-crumbs; dip tnem a second time 
into the eggs, and oo^'er them again wit^ 
bread-cnunbs; fiy them as other cro^vettes. 
Lay firied parsley on a napkin in a dish, 
pkkoe the croquettes on, and round it, and 
serve. 

CHICKEN CURRY. Take the skin 
off, cut up a chickm, and roll each piece in 
curry-jpowder abd flour (mixed together a 
spoonful of flour to half an ounce of curry) 
fry two or three sliced onions in butter; 
when of a li^t brown, put in the meat and 
firy them together till the meat becomes 
brown ; then stew them together with a lit- 
tle water for two w three houn. More 
water may be added if *joo tliick. 

CHICKEN CAPILOTADE. Put into 
a stewpan a little butter* and flour; add 
mushrooms, parsley, and sliallots cut small, 
diluto these with equal quantites of stock, ami 
red or white wine. When the sauce is well 
boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, 
and put it into this sauce; stew it gently 
for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins 
cut in thin slices. 

CHICKEN, COLD FRIED. Cut the 
chicken in quarters, and take off die skin, 
rub it with an egg beaten up, and cover it 
with grated bread seasoned with pepper, 
salt,' grated lemon-{)eel, and chopped parsley, 
fry it in butter, thicken a little brown gravy 
widi flour and butter, add a little Cayenne, 
lemon pickle, and mushroom catchup. 

CHICKENS FIUCASSEED. Prepare 
and cut up two chickens ; put them m a 
stewpan with some butter, parsley, a bay-, 
leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mu8lu*oom8, 
and a slice of ham ; let them stew till scarce- 
ly any sauce remains, then add a little flour, 
warm water, salt and p^per; stew it again 
and reduce the sauce. When nearly done 
put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up 
with a little cream or milk ; thicken it over 
the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small Quan- 
tity of iemon-juice or vin^ar may be added. 
Place the breasts and bones of the. chickens 
on a dish, lay the legs and win^ over them* 



CHI 



50 



CHI 



and then pour the sauce over the whole; 
garnish with the mushrooms. Take off the 
skins before you cot up the chickens if you 
wish the fricassee very white. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. Make a bat- 
ter with foot eegSy some new milk, and 
rice-flour ; to this, add a pint of cream, pow- 
der-sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, 
fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white parts 
of a roasted chicken shred small; set all 
these together on a stove, and stir well for 
sometime; when done, take it off, roll out 
the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fiy 
them; strew sugar on a dish, lay in the 
fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them 
hot. 

CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a 
chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan 
with a little butter; add to it some mush- 
rooms, parsley, sprinkle flour over, and 
shake tliem ; moisten it with stock or water, 
and white wine; when it has boiled once, 
take it from the Are and put in the yolks of 
one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or 
lemon-juice. 

CHICKENS AND OYSTERS. Fill 
your chickens with young oysters cut small, 
truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. 
Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and 
toss them up in some melted butter, with 
chopped herbs and olive oil. When they 
have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, 
add a little white wine and half a glass of 
good stock, thicken it over the fire for an- 
otlier quarter of an hour, and when the 
chickens are ready^ to serve, pour the sauce 
on them, and garnish the dii^ with oysters 
and some lemon. 

CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken 
in a quart of water until nearly done ; then 
id^in it, cut off the white meat, and pqund 
it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in 
to a thick paste; season it with salt, nut- 
meg, and lonon-peel; boil it up all together 
for a few minutes. 

CHICKEN AND HAM POTTED. 

Season some pieces of chicken, widi mace, 
cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about 
three hours in a close covered pan with 
some watei' ; then pound them quite small, 
moistening either with melted butter, or the 
liquor they were baked in. Pound also 
0ome ham, and put this with the chicken in 
alternate layers, in potting pans, press them 
down tight, and cover them with butter. 

CHICKEN PUIJLED. (1) Half roast 
a chicken or fowl, skin and pull off in small 
(lakes all the white meat and the meat of the 



legs, break the bcmes, and boil them in H 
little water till the strength be drawn out, 
strain it, and when it becomes cold skim 
and put it into a sauce pan with a little mace, 
white pepper, and salt ; add a bit of butter 
mixed with flour, and rather more than a 
quarter of a pint of cream, then put in the 
meat, and a little mushroom powoer ; before 
ser\'ing, add the squeeze df a lemon. 

CHICKEN PULLED. (2) Pick all the 
white meat from the bones of a cold roasted 
fowl, cut off the legs, and keep the back and 
sidesmen in one. Score, and seas<m the legs 
and back witli pepper and salt, and broil 
them; warm up the white meal in some 
sauce made of the bones boiled in a little 
water, and which has been strained and 
thickened with a piece of Ixitter, mixed with 
flour, a little milk, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up and seasoned with white pepp^ 
and salt; serve the broiled back upon the 
min'ce, and the legs at each end. 

CHICKEN PIE. See Pie. 

CHICKEN ROASTED. See Fowh. 

CHICKENS, SCOTCH WAY. Cut 

your chickens into quarters, put them into a 
saucepan, with only just water enough to 
cover them, a bnnch of parsley, some chop- 
ped parsley, and a little mace, cover them 
close down, when it boils, add six eggs 
well-beaten; when the chickens are done, 
take out the parsley, and serve them in a 
deep disli with the sauce. 

CHICKENS AND TOMATA SAUCR 
Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, 
salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nut- 
meg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chick- 
ens ; tie it in, and lay thin slices of lemon 
on die breast of tlie diickens, and lay tliem 
in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of ba- 
con; cover them with the same, and stew 
them with fire above and below for three 
quarters of an hour; when done, drain them 
in a cloth ; untie them, and serve with toma- 
ta sauce. 

CHINA CHILO. Mince a pint basin 
of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and 
some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a 
pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of -pepper, 
four spoonfuls of water, and two or three 
ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan 
closely covered ; sknmer two hours, and serve 
in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If 
Cayenne is approved, add a little. 

CHILI, OR CAYENNE WINE. Pound 

and steep fifty firesh red Chilres, or a quar 
ter of an ounce of Cayenne pepper^ in hatt 



CHO 



51 



CHO 



B pint of brandy, white wine, or claret, for 
fourteen days. This is a ** bonnfi boueke** 
for the loven of Ooi^enne, <^ ^ich it takes 
op a Jarf^ proportion of its ftivor than of 
its fire: which oeii^ instantly diflused, it is 
a very useful auxiliary to warm and finish 
soups, ssuices, &c. 

CHOCOLATE. According as you wish 
to make thb beverage, either witli milk or 
water, put a cup of one or otlier of tliese 
liquids mto a diocolate-pot, with one ounce 
of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve 
tlie chocolate in a little water before they put 
it into the milk. As soon as the milk or 
water besins to boil, mill it. When tlie 
chocolate is dissolved, and begins to Udible, 
lake it off the fire, letting it stand near it 
for a quarto: of an hour ; then mill it again 
to make it fiiothy ; afterwards serve it out 
in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, 
unless it is prepared with cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. SeeCreanu, 

CHOCOLATE FROTHED OR WHIP- 
PED. Put half a pound of chocolate to a 
glass c^ water over a small fire, stirring it 
with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolv- 
ed; then take it off and add six yolks of 
eggs, a pint of double cream, and three 
Quarters of a pound of powder-sugar. Pour 
the whole into a pan, and when cold, whip 
it up as directed. See Cream frothed, 

CHOCOLATE WINE. Take a pint of 
Sherry, or a pint and a half of Pent, four 
ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of 
fine si^ar, and half an ounce of white starch, 
or fine flour ; mix, dissolve, and boil all these 
together for about ten or twelve minutes. 
But if your chocolate is made with sugar, 
take double the quantity of chocolate, and 
half the quantity of sugar. 

CHOPS OR STEAKS. Those who 
are nice about steaks, never attempt to have 
them, except in weather which permits the 
meat to be hung till it is tender, and give the 
butcher some davs' notice of their wish for 
them. If, firiena^ reader, you wish to enter- 
tain your mouth with a superlative beefsteak, 
you must have the inside of the sirloin cut 
mto steaks. The next best steaks are those 
cut firom the middle of a ramp, that has been 
killed at least four days in moderate weather, 
and much longer in cold weather, when they 
can be cut about six inches long, four inches 
wide, and half an inch thick: do not beat 
them, which vulgar ti'ick bi'eaks the cells in 
which the gravy of the meat is contained, 
and it becomes dry and tasteless. N. B. — 
If your butcher sends steaks which are not 
tender, we do not insist that you sboukl 



olgect to let him be beaten. Desire dm 
butcher to cut them of even thicknev; if ha 
does not, divide the thicker finom the thinoer 
pieces, auMl give them time accordingly. 

CHOWDER. Lay some slices cut from 
the fiit pait <^ a belly-piece of pork, in a 
deep stewpan, mix sliced onions witli a 
^tuiety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the 
pork. Bone and cut a fi^i cod into thin 
slices, and place them on the pork ; then put 
a layer of pork, on tlmt a layer o^ biscuit* 
then alternately the other materials until die 
pan is nearly foil, season with pepper and 
salt, put in about a pint and a half of water, 
lay a paste over the whole, cover the stewpan 
very close, and let it stand, with fire above 
as weU as below, for four hours ; then skim 
it well, and put it in a dish, pour a glass of 
Madeira made liot over it, also some Jamaica 
pepper, stewed mushrooms, truflfes, and 
oysters ; brown die paste sli^itly, and lay it 
over tlie whole. 

CHOWDER FOR TEH OR TWELYE. 

Take of sak pork cut in diin slices, as much 
as will make half a pint of (at, when tried, 
which will do for two good sited cod or 
haddock. Be careful not to burn tlie fot. 
First, put your fot in die pot. Secondly, 
cut your fish in as large pieces as will so 
into the pot; Uien put a layer of fish on tne 
fitt ; pepper, salt and a few ckves, then a 
layer of the slices of pork, strewed over with 
onions cut fine; then a layer of shipbread 
or hard crackers dipped in water; then your 
thickening. Go on again widi fisli, &c. Ace. 
as above, till your pot is nearly full, then pot 
in water until you can just see it, and let it 
stew slowly, so as not to break the fish. 
After coming to a boil, it will be d<Hie in 
twenty^ve or thirty minutes. N. B. — S<Hntt 
like potatoes cut in slices, which may be in- 
troduced between eacli layer. Likewise 
wine or cider, as you fency. QCT'Tliis 
Receipt is according to Uie most approved 
method, practised fay fishing parties in Boa- 
ton harbor. 

CHOWDER, CLAM, May be made in 
the same way, substituting a sufficient 
quantity of clams instead of cod, the heads 
or hard leathery part being first cot off 
Many prefer clam chowder, nicely cooked, 
to chowder made of cod, haddock, &c. 
The pilgrims to Plymouth, it is said, could 
cook diis shell fisn and lobsters in nearly 
fi% dififerent ways, and even as puddings, 
paiKakes, &c. 

CHOUX. Put a pint of water into a 
stewpan, with half a pound of fi'esh butter, 
the rinds of two lemons gi-ated, a quarter 
of a pound of sugar, and a very Uttfe salt; 



coc 



53 



COD 



as soon as the v^ter begins to boil, add as 
much flour as tlie liquor will imbibe; when 
the paste becomes very thick, keep stirrin? 
with a spoon until quite done, then let it 
cool. After tliat, break into it a sufficient 
number of eggs to make the paste soft ; taking 
care that it be firm enough to allow you to 
Work it up with the hand; when it may be 
formed according to fiincy. This paste may 
be glazed and garnished either withahnonds 
or pistachio nuts; when baking the thour, 
be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. 

CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil a 
pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it 
two eggs well-beaten ; then boil them togeth- 
er until diey become a curd. Beat a few 
blanclied ahnonds in a mortar, with a little 
orange-flower water ; put them to the curd, 
and add some Napl& biscuits and green cit- 
ron, chof^ped veiy small. Sweeten, and bake 
in tins. 

CITRON PUDDING. See PuddingB. 

CLARET PUFFS. Mix together, and 
sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, a pint of 
claret, and rather more thiui one of rich 
cream; let it stand a night, and tlien whisk 
it to a fh>th, which take off as it rises, and 
pot upon the back of a sieve to drain ; heap 
It upon a dish, sweeten some ridi cream, 
and pour it round the fix>^, to make it float. 

CLOVE, ESSENCE OF. Infiise a 
drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of 
the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary's 
measure. 

CLOVE WATER. Mix a little cinna- 
mon with the ck>ves, or the scent will be 
too strong; allow half a score of cloves to a 
quart of water ; put in a good piece of 
sugar; let them inflise some time over hot 
embers, or in a warm place ; then strain it 
for use. 

COBBLER. Name given to bread 
toasted on one side only. 

COCHINEAL PREPARED. Pound 
an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, 
pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and 
two drachms of alum ; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan witlt half a pint of water; 
when it boils take it from the fire, and let 
it cool ; pour it off into a bottle, as firee from 
sediment as possible, and set it by for use. 

COCOA. Put into a saucepan one ounce 
of good cocoa and one quart of wator ; cover 
it, and when it boils, set it by the side of the 
fire to simmer 6x two hours. It is some- 
times made in a larger quantity, poured 



trom the sediment, and boiled up as it is re- 
quired. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (1) 

Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, 
and tluiow it into cold water; then mte it, 
and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to eadi 
pound of the cocoa-nut) until quite thick ; 
stu* it frequently to prevent its burning. 
Then pour it on a well buttered dish or mar* 
ble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you 
think proper. 

COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. (2) 
Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar 
so thick by a great deal; then stir into it 
whilst hot die yolks of six eggs; this must 
be served in jelly glasses. 

COD. A cod-fish sIkniM be firm and 
white, the gills red, and (he eye lively ; a 
fine fisii is very thick about the neck ; if the 
flesh is at all flabby it is not eood. Cod is 
m its prime during the monus of October 
and November, if the weather be cold; from 
the kitter end of March to May, cod is also 
very fine. The length of time it requires 
forooUing depends on die size of the ftii, 
which varies from one pound to t^n'enty ; a 
small fish, about two or three pounds weight 
will be si^iently boiled in a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes after the water boils. 
Prepare a cod for dressing in the foOowing 
manner: — empty and wash it thoroughly, 
scrape off all the scales, cut open the otHy^ 
and wash and dry it well, ruo a little salt 
inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. 
The simple way of dressii^ it is as fi>lS>ws : — 
Tie up me hesul, and put it into a fish-kettle, 
with plenty of water and sah in it; boil it 
gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lav 
a napkin under the fish, and garnish with 
dices of lemon, horse-radish, 8cc. 

COD BAKED. (1) Soak a fine piece 
of the middle of ft-esli cod in melted butter, 
with parsley and sweet herbs shred veiy fine ; 
let it stand over the fire for sometime, and 
then bake it. Let it be of a good color. 

COD BAKED. (2) Choose a fine large 
ood, clean it well, and open the under part 
to the bone, and pot in a stufling made with 
beef suet, parsley, sweet herbs shred fine, an 
egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper, nuUne?, 
mace and grated lemon-peel ; pot tiiis inside 
the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered pa- 
per, and bake it; baste it well with melted 
butter. 

COD, TO CRIMP. Cut a fi«sh cod in- 
to slices or steaks ; lay them for three hours 
in salt-and-water, and a glass of vin^;ar*. 
when they may be boiled, ned, or broiled 



cor 



68 



COP 



COD PIE. See Pie. 

COD SOUNDS. This i* the white skin 
ti die beDy, and is reckoned a great delica- 
cy, and may be eidier boiled, broiled, or 
filed. Previous to dressinff either way, they 
should be wdl soaked, washed, and boiled a 
Utile. 

COD SOUNDS, Boiled with Gra- 
TT. Scald them in hot water, and rub them 
well with salt ; blanch them, that is, take off 
the Uacked dirty skin, then set than on in 
cold water, and let them simmer till they 
b^in to be tender ; take them out, iluur, and 
broil than on the gridiron. In the mean- 
time, take a little sood gravy, a little mus- 
tard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give 
it a boil, season it with pepper and salt. 
Lay die sounds in your dish, and pour tlie 
sauce over them. 

COD SOUNDS, BROILED. Let them 
lie in boiling water till it is nearly cold, rub 
them with salt, and pull off the black and 
dirty skin, boil than in hot water, drain, 
and dust them with flour, rub tliem over 
with butter, season with white pepper and 
salt, and l^il them. Put a table-nxx>nful 
of catchup, half a one of soy, and a little Cay- 
enne, into melted butter, heat and pour it over 
them. 

COD SOUNDS, Roasted or Baked. 
Wash and clean four or five cod sounds, and 
boil them till nearly done in milk-and-water ; 
when cold, make a forcemeat of bread 
crumbs; a piece of butter, salt, nutmeg, 
white pepper, and some chopped oyatera; 
beat up the yolks of two eggs to bind it, lay 
it over the sounds, roll them up, and fasten 
with a small skewer, baste them with melted 
batter, and roll them in finely grated bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt; put 
them on a tin in a Dutch oven, turn and 
baste them with a feathel^dipped in melted 
butter, and strew over bread crumbs as be- 
fore ; when done, and of a nice brown, serve 
them with oyster sauce in the dish. 

COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, 
TO Boil. Wash it clean; tie it up, and 
dry it with a cloth. Allow in the propor- 
tion of every three measures of water, one of 
salt; when it boils take off the scum; put 
in the fish, and keep it boiling very fast for 
twenty-tive or thirty minutes. Serve with 
the roe and milt parboiled, cut into slices, 
and fried, and garnish with cwled parslev 
and horse-radii^. Sauces;— oyster, melted 
butler, or anchovy butter. 

COFFEE. The coffee-pot should be 
three parts full of boiling water; the cofiee 

5* 



It to be added a wpoooSai at a time, and wcB 
slinred between each ; then boil gently, still 
stirring to prevent the mixture finom boiling 
over as the coflbe sweUs, and to iarob it into 
combination with the water, this will be eP 
fecled in a few minutes, afbr fdiich, the 
most gentle boiling must be kepi op darinip 
an hour. The oo&e must then be removed 
finom the fire to settle, one or two spoonfiils 
of cold water thrown in assists the clarifKa- 
tion, and precipitates tfie grounds. In about 
an hour, or as soon as the liquor has become 
clear, it is to be poured into another vessel, 
taking care not to disturb the sediment. 
Coflbe made in diis mamer wiD be of the 
finest flavoTj and may be kept three days 
in summer, and four or five in winter ; when 
<M*dered for use, it only requires heating in 
the cofiee-pot, and taayhe served up at two 
minutes* notice. Conee should never ba 
roasted but at the precise time of its being 
used, and then it should be watched with 
the greatest care, and made of a gold cok>r 
rather dian a brown one; above all, take care 
not to bum it, for a very few grains burnt 
will be snflkient to communicate a bitter 
and rancid taste to several pounds of coflee. 
It is the best way to itMtst it in a roaster, 
(over a charcoal hre), which turns with the* 
hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which 
ofleu is the case when on a spit befoiv the 
fire. 

COFFEE, French method of 
PREPARino. 1st. Let yocsr coffee bo dry, 
not in the leaM mouldy or damaged. — 2d, 
Divide the quantity diat is to be rcrasted into 
two parts. — ^3d. Koast the first part in a 
coffee-roaster, the handle of which must be 
kept constantly turning until the ooflfee be- 
comes the coUm* of dried aluumds or bread* 
raspings, and has lost one eigtith of its 
weight.---4tii. Roast the second part until 
it assumes the fine brown color of chestnuts, 
and has lost one fifth of its weight. — 5Ui. 
Mix die two parts tbgedier, and grind diem 
in a coffee mill. — 6di. Do not roast or make 
your coffee until the day it is wanted. — 7th. 
To two ounces of ground coffee, put four 
cups of cold water. Draw off diis infusion, 
and put it aside.— ^th. Put to the coffee 
which remains in the fnggirif three cups of 
boiling water, then drain it off and add this' 
infusion to that which lias been put aside. 
By diis method you obtain three cups more. 
When your coflbe is wanted, heat it quickly 
in a silver coflee-pot, taking care not to let 
it boil, that the perfume may not be lost bj 
undergoing an^ evaporation. Hien pour it 
into cups, whicli each person may sweeten 
according to his taste. Particular care 
should be taken not to make cofiee in a tin 
vessel ; it should be made either in a China 
vessel, or one oi Delft vrare, or in one r.f 



COL 



54 



cou 



tilver. For a long time, the tin biggins, in- 
vented by Monsieur de Belloy, were made 
use of; but some person has smoe improved 
upon his plan, by making them of silver or 
porcelain, which are found to be much better. 

COFFEE CREAM. (1) Mix three 
cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, 
and sugar according to taste ; boil them to- 
gether, and reduce tliem about one-third ; 
observe tliat the coffee must be done as if it 
was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, 
before you mix it with the cream. 

C9FFEE CREAM. (2) BoilacalPs 
f(K)t in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly; 
clear off the sediment and &t. Make a tea- 
cup of very Btrong coffee ; clear it with a 
bit of isinglass, to Ite perfectly bright; pour 
it to the jelly, and add a pint of very good 
cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is 
pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into 
the dish. -It should jelly, but not be stiff. 
Obsei-ve diat your co^ te fresh. 

COLLOPS. Cut some veal cutlets; fry 
tliem a good brown, but not too much ; take 
some good gravy, thicken it with a little 
flour, boil it a few minutes; add Cayenne, 
catchup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms 
pickled, grated lemon-peel; sinuner this up, 
just heat the collops through, add what gravy 
came from them, but do not let them boil, or 
tliey will be hard ; add foroera^it balls, hard 
yolk of eggs ; lay round littlq slices of ba- 
con, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. 

COLLOPS, MINCED. Cut two 

pounds of lean tender beef into thin slices — 
it is best taken from off the rump, or round ; 
mince it vei-y finely ; brown two ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, dredging it with a 
little flour, then add the minced meat, and 
keep beating it with a beater till of a nice 
brown color. Have ready some highly-sea- 
soned beef gra^y, which, with the minced 
collops, put mto a saucepan, and let it stew 
half an hour ; and just before serving, put a 
table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, and, if 
liked, some green pickles. Beef suet is as 
often used as butter to fry the collops in. 

COLLOPS, RUSSIAN. Break four eggs 
into a stewpan, and mix with them two 
spoonfuls of flour, then half a glass of good 
cream, a spoonful of warm butter, and a 
grain of salt; when these are well mixed to- 
gether, pour some of it into a large fi*ying-pan, 
and fry it of a light color on both sides; 
then take it out, and fry more in the same 
way, like pancakes, until you have a doz«n 
very thin, cut each in half, and trim them 
into oblong pieces all the same size: lay on 
each some quenelle, minced fowl or game, 



as if for croquettes; wrap the fried baCfcer 
round it, wetting the ed^fes, that they may 
adiiere properly, with a little of the batter* 
having reserved sonw for the purpose; then 
have ready beaten, six'^gs and a little salt, 
mask them with bread-ci-umbs, fly them of a 
good color, and serve them quickly. 

COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cut- 
lets (taken from the fiHct) into smaB tliin 
pieces, and firy them in a little boiling lard 
till of a light brown color. Drain them dry, 
put them into a stewpan, add cnllis, stewed 
mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, 
pieces of artichoke bottoms, some slices of 
throat sweetbreadS) and egg balls. Let 
them simmer over a slow me till tend^, 
season to tlie palate, and serve them with 
rashers of broiled bacon round them. 

COLD MEAT BROILED, WITH 

Poached Eggs. The inside of a sirloin 
of beef is best for this dish, or a leg of mut- 
ton. Cut tlie slices of even and equal thick- 
ness, and broil and brown them carefiiUy 
and slightly over a clear smart fire, or in a 
Dutch oven ; give those slices most fire that 
are least done ; lay them in a disit before tlie 
fire to keep hot, while you poach the eggs, 
&ud mash potatoes. 

COLORING FOR JELLIES, Cake?, 
&c. For a beautifiil red, boil fifteen grains 
of cochineal in the finest powder, with a 
drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in 
half a pint of water very sIomHv, half an 
hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of^ alum tlie 
size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and 
some liquor poured over. For white, use 
almonds finely powdered with a little drop 
of water; or use cream.' For 2^«^oto, yolks 
of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the li- 
quor, and squeezed. For green, pound 
spinach-leaves, or beet-leaves, express the 
juice, and boil a tea-cupftil in a saucepan 
of water, to take off the rawness. 

CONSOMME. Take eight or ten 
pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two 
young ones, and four knuckles of veal ; pat 
these into a lai^ pot, and fiJi it with strong 
1)roth ; skim it well, cooling it three or four 
times to make the scum rise, after which let 
it boil gently ; put into the pot carrots, tur- 
nips, onions, and three cloves. When your 
meat is sufficiently done, pass the liquor 
through a fine napkin or silk sie^'e, that it 
may be very clear. No salt need be put in 
if strong htoih be used. 

COUGLAUFFLE, GERMAN. Take 
three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half 
of yeast, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolki of 



cou 



55 



CRA 



Ivfclve toottf two poondi oi fivih bottory 
duree ghflses ci milk, and a qoaiter of a 
poraid of 0weet ahaondB. Proceed with 
ttiese materiab in the fbUowiog manner: — 
pot the butter (having aligbt^ wanned half 
a poimd of it), into a glazed pan, and with 
a uuqge wooden spoon work it op for six or 
seven minutes; then pat in two whole ens, 
and stir it two minutes; then add three yows, 
and stir again two minutes; in this manner 
put in the whole numbo* of eggs and yolks; 
which will produce a kind of smooth cream. 
Then by d^rees mix in two pounds of the 
floor, dissolve the yeast in a ^bss of warm 
milk, strain it through a a^Jem, stir this in 
well, with another half pound of flour; 
make a holbw ia the paste, in whidi put 
the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards 
poor on it a glass of hot nilk, and mix the 
whofe together with the remainder of the 
flour; continue to work it up for some min- 
utes after the whole ingredients are put in, 
adding a small quantity of warm milk, which 
will render it snfiioth. Have a moukl ready, 
butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each 
cut in half, over the bottom of the mould, in 
foi'ms, on which pour the paste careftUly, 
and in small quantities, so as not 5o dorange 
the aknoods. Place vour moukl m a warm, 
but not a hot place, that the cake may rise 
properly; and when that operation has taken 
place, put it into a moderate oven, which 
should be kept closed; in an hour's time 
look at the CouglauffU, and if it be flexible, 
and of a light color, let it remain thirty or 
fort}r minutes IcMiger; but if it be firm and 
red it is sufficiently done ; when taken fiiom 
the moukl, pot it mto the oven again for a 
few minutes. 

COUGLAUFFLES, SMALL. To 
make a doaen small eourlaujgUa, take du«e 
quarters of a pound of flour, three drachms 
of yeast, two of salt, two whole em, three 
yolks, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, 
and half a pound of butter. The prepara- 
tion is made the same as the German Coi^> 
gUxuffle. When the paste is made, divide 
it into twelve equal parts; buttar a docen 
small biscuit raoukls, and fill each with your 
preparation, and let them stand: when risen 
so as to ffll the moulds, put them into a 
brisk oven, and take th«n out as soon as 
they are c^ a light color. 

GOUQUES. Put into a sanoepan the 
yolks of sixteen eggs, the rinds of two lem- 
ons, half an ounce of sah, and two ounces 
of sugar; on these poor a phit of boiling 
ereom, stirring it quick ; set it on the fire, 
but do not M it iM>i], strain it through a 
bolting, and then let it cool; take two 
pounds of flour, and make a qoarter of it 



into leaven widi half an oonee of yeast ap4 
a little warm water> keep it rather moiiC» 
and put it into a warm (mce to rise: in ths 
meantime, make the remainder of the flour 
into a paste, with the cream and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, knead it up five or six 
times; then put in the leaven, and knead it 
again twice; tie it up in a floored cfoch, and 
set it in a warm place. In about two houra 
take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the 
sise of an ^g, form than to that nape, and 
lay them on a baking tin, and leave them 
for half an hour to rise, then gild and 
bi^ them in a hot oven ; when dme, open 
each on one aide, take out a little of the 
crumb, in the place of which put a bit of 
batter worked up with a littb nk* and 
serve them. 

COURT BOUILLON. Out a proper 
quantity of carrots, onions, odery, asd tar^ 
nips, and pot them into a sancepan widi 
butter, panley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a 
mignonette and ckives; sweat them over a 
gentle fire; add white wine, vinenr or 
verjuice ; boil, and dien strain it, and serve 
it with whatever you may require it for. 
It is general^ used for fish. 

CX)URT BOUILLON fob all 
SORTS or Fresh Water Fish. Put 
some water into a fish-kettle, with a quart 
of white wine, a sHce of butter, sah, pepper, 
a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a 
ck>ve of garlic, thyme, bay-kiaves, and basil 
all tied together, some sliced 'Oniont and 
some carrots; boil the firii ia this court 
bouillon, (which will serve for several times) 
and do not scale it ; when the fish wiD ad- 
mit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a 
napkin, which makes it more easy to take 
out without danger of breaking. 

GOW-HEEL, In the hands of a skiUul 
cook, will fiunish several good meals; when 
boiled tender, cut it into handsome pieces, 
e^ and bread-crumb them, and fry them a 
li^ brown ; by them round a dish, and put 
in the jniddle of it sliced onions fi*ied, or the 
accompaniments ordered for tripe. The 
liquor they vrere boiled in will make 
soups. 

CRACKNELS. Mix a quart of flour, 
half a nutmeg grated, the yows of four eggs 
beaten, with four spoonfiils of rosewater, into 
a stiff paste, with cold water ; then rub in a 
pound of butter, and make into a cracknel 
shape; put them mto a kettle of boiling 
water, and boil them till they swim; then 
take than out, and put them into cold wittKlr j 
when haidened, lay them out to di^, and 
bake th^ on tin plates. 



CR£ 



56 



CRE 



CRACKNELS, small soft. Blanch 
Iialf a pound of sweet almonds, and pound 
them to a fine paste, adding to them oy de- 
grees six eggs ; when thoroughly pounded, 
pour <Mt titem a pound of powder-«ugar, the 
same of butter, and the rinds of two lenions 
grated; beat up these ingredients in tlie 
mortar: put a pound of flour on a slab, and 
having poured the ahnmid paste on it, knead 
them together until they are well incorporat- 
ed ; roll it out, and cut the crackneh into 
such forms as you may think proper, rub 
them with yolk of ^g, and strew over diem 
powder-sugar or cinnamon: then lay them 
on a buttered tin, and bake them in a mode- 
rate oven, takin? great care that they do not 
bum. When <K>ne, put them into glasiKs, 
and if preserved in a dry place th^ are the 
better for keeping. 

CRANBERRIES, Different wats 
OF DRESsiifO. FcM* pies and puddings, 
with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a 
jar, with the same ; this way they eat well 
with bread, and are vary wholesome^ Thus 
done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes 
a fine drink for people in feversr 

CREAM, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound to a paste, with rose water, six^ 
ounces of almonds, mix them with a pint^ 
and a half of cream which has been boiled 
with the peel of a small lemon ; add two 
well-beaten egigi, and slur the whole over 
the fire till it be thick, taking care not to 
allow it to boil ; sweeten it, and when near- 
ly ooki, stir in a table-spoonful of orange- . 
nower or rose water. 

CREAM, APPLE. (1) Boil twelve 
large apples in water till soft, take off* the 
peel, and press the pulp through alia ir sieve 
upon half a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; 
whip the whites of two eggs, add them to 
the ^ples, and beat all together till it be- 
comes very stiff, and lookb quite white. 
Serve it heaped up on a dish* 

CREAM, APPLE. (2) Ped and core 
five large apples ; boil them in a little water, 
tin soft enough to pi'ess through a sieve; 
sweeten, and beat with them u» whisked 
whites of five eggs. Serve it with cream 
poured round it. 

CREAM, ARROW-ROOT. Mix a ta- 
ble-spoonfiil of arrow-root with a tea-cupfid 
of cold water ; let it settle, and poiu* the wa- 
ter off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk 
with the peel of a lemon and some cinnamon ; 
pick them out, and pour it boiling upon the 
arrowHPOot, stirring it well and firequently 
till it be cokl. S^ve it in a glass or china 
dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the 



top. It may be oaten with any 
fruit, or fhiit tarts. 



CREAM, BACCHIC. Put a pint and a 
half of white wine, with some lennon-peel, 
coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and threcr 
ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and leC 
them boH a qoarter of an hour; then mix 
half a tea-spoonful of floor widi the yolks of 
six eg^ in another stewpan, and stir in by 
d^;rees the other [M-eviously boiled ingre^ 
dients. When about half cold, strain the 
whole through a sieve and put it in a dish 
ia hot water, over the fire, tin the cream i» 
set ; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool 
place till ready to serve. 

CREAM, BARLEY. Boifasmanquan^ 
tity of pearl barley in miHc and water, tilf 
tender, strain off the liquor, and put the 
baj'ley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. 
Then take the whites of five ^gs and tlie 
yolk of one, beat them with one spoonfiil of 
flour, and two of orange-flower water. Take 
the cream iirom the fire, mix the eggs in by 
degrees, and set it over the fire again tO' 
thicken. Sweeten it, and pow iato cups or 
glasses for use. 

CREAM, BURNT. Boil a pint of creams 
with the peri of a lemon, sweeten it witb 
pounded loaf sugar ; beat, with the yolks of 
six, and whites of four eggs, one taMe-spoon-' 
fill of flour, the same of orange-fiower water 
and of ratafia ; strain the cream, and wheo 
nearly cold, mix it with the eg^ and other 
thinss ; stir it over the fire till it becomes a» 
thick as a custard ; put it into the dish it i» 
to be served in. Etoil with a little water 
some pounded loaf sij^bt, tin it turn brown^ 
but do not stir it tin taken off die fire ; by 
degrees pour it in figures over the top of the 
cream. It may be eaten hot or cold. 

CREAM CAKES. See Cakee. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (1) Take 
a pint of milk, a giU of cream, the yolks of 
three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar^ 
mix tiiese ingredients togetiier, set them on 
the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till 
reduced to a quarter; then add two ouncen 
of grated chocolate ; and having boiled a lit. 
tie longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve 
it cold. 

CREAM, CHOCOLATE. (2) Take 
about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to 
pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, 
and stir it ovor a gentle fire till it luok» 
snoooth and thick; then add a little more 
milk, and stir it again over the fire; o(m- 
tinue this tiU it takes the thickness of cream ; 



CRE 



6T 



CRE 



gir ec t en it to vpm pakte with clarified ra- 
car ; sdr in a Utde thick ereani with a very 
little Mxn^hiflB, rob it tbroagh the tammy, 
and set it in ^ moold. 



CREAM CUSTARD. Sa CuUard, 

CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a handful 
of floor, with tiuree whole e^, and the yoUu 
of six, font poanded macaroons, scnae dried 
oran|e-flowerB, browned in sogar, a little 
candied lemon-peel chopped very fine, half 
a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a 
himp of sugar ; boil the whole over a gentle 
fire for a quarter of an hoor, till the cream 
turns to a thick paste; then let it cool in a 
dish well floured, shaking flour all over it. 
When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, 
roO them in your hands till thc^ become 
round, and fiy them of a good coior; wlien 
you serve them, powder them all ovor with 
sc^ar. 

CREAM FROTH. Put a pint of firerii 
doable cream into a stone pan, with h^ a 
pound of powder flugar, a pinch of gum 
dragon, a little crisped orange-flower, and 
three drops of cedrat essence; when the su- 
gar Lb diraolved, place the pan in another, in 
which is three pounds of ice beaten up with 
saltpetre; whip the cream in (he usual man- 
ner, taking on the froth as it rises with a 
dimmer, lay it gently on a sieve over a 
pan ; if the cream does not froth properly, 
add the whites of two e^. .Thn cream is 
utHially served in large silver or gilt gc^lets, 
and mould be prepared two or three hours 
betbre it is vtunteo. 

CREAM FOR FRXnr TARTS. Boil 
a stidt of cinnamon, two or three peadi 
leaves, or a few bruised bitter almondis, in a 
quart of milk; sti-ain, sweeten, and mix it, 
when cool, with three or ftnir well-beaten 
eg^; stir it constantly over the fire till it 
thickens. It may be eaten with stewed 
apples, prunes, damsons, or any other fruiu 

CREAM, IMPERUL. Boil a quart of 
oream with the thin rind of a lemon; then 
stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a 
dish or bowl Uiat you are to serve in, 
the juice of three lemons stmined, with as 
much sugar as wiH sweeten the cream, which 
pour into the dish from a large teapot, hold- 
ing it high, and moving it about to mix with 
the juice. It should be made at least six 
hours before it is served, and will be still 
better if a day. 

' CREAM ITALIAN. (1) BoH a pint and 
a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it 
the peel of a young lemon, some coriander 
itea; a bit of cinnamon, rathek* more than 



half a quarter of a poond of logar, and tw6 
or three grains of salt; let it boil till half ia 
conmmed ; then let it stand to eodi, and 
have ready in another stewpan a little flour, 
beat up with the yolks of six eggs ; stir it 
by degrees into the cream ; strain it throush 
a sieve, and put it in the dish for tabw, 
placinff the dish in some hot water over fhe 
fire till the cream is set. Before serving, 
brown with a salamanda*. 

CREAM ITAUAN. (2) PutagiHof 
good fresh cream, two ms, three spoonfids 
of powder-sugar, and a little orange-flower 
wattf , into a pan, and whip them up tc^eth- 
er; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, 
put it into a deep dish, with plenty of pow- 
der-sugar; set it (HI hot ashes, cover it, and 
lay hot ashes on the top, which must b« 
renewefl until the cream is done enough; 
then let it cool, and serve it 

CREAM, LEMON. Steep the thinly- 
pared rinds o( four lai^ lemons in a pint c^ 
water for twelve hours; strain, and aissolvo 
in it three-ouart^rs of a pound of fine loaf 
sugar, add th^ juice of the lemons strained, 
and the well-bositen whites of seven, and the 
yolk of one egg. Boil it over a slow fire, 
stirring it constantly one way, till it is like 
.^icko^uo; pour it uoo.gl^ orchid 

CREAM, ORANGE. (1) Squeeze and 
strain flie iutce of eleven oranges, sweeten 
it weH with pounded loaf sugar, stir it over 
U slow fire till the sugar be dissolved, and 
take ofi* the scum as it rises ; when cold^ 
mix it with the well-beaten yolks of twelve 
eggs, to which a pint of cream has been 
addeid; stir it again over the fire till thick. 
Serve in a glass di^ or custard-cups. 

CREAM, ORANGE. (2) Sweeten^ 
with pounded loaf sugar, a quart of good 
cream; mix with it a small wineglass of 
orange-flower water, the grated rind and 
the juice of a Seville orange ; whisk it till 
quite thick ; soak some macaroons in white 
wine, and pile them in the middle of aglasi 
or china duh, and heap the whipped cream 
over them as high as possible. Some hours 
after, ornament it with slices of Kreen citron 
cut into straws, and stuck into the cream. 

CREAM, RATAFIA. In a tea-cupfiji 
of thin cream boil two or three large laurel, 
or young peach leaves ; yrhea it has boiled 
three or four minutes, strain, and mix with 
it a pint of rich sweet crram; add three wett- 
beaten whites of eggs, and sweeten it with 
pounded loaf sugar. Put it into a saucepan, 
and stir it ffenUy one way over a slow fire 
till it be thick; pour it mto a china dish. 



CRE 



^ 



GRE 



wad whtsa quite cold» omameDt it with sweet- 
meats cut out like flowers; or strew over 
the top harleqiain counts. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (1) Mix a 

Ettle pounded loaf sugitr with a pint and a 
half of good cream, about a tea-cupful of 
raspberry jelly, the g^ted rind of one, and 
the j.uice of half a lemon ; beat it wcJl to- 
gether, and, with a syllabub mill, mill it 
slowly for half an hour, or till it be thick and 
solid. Put it into a glass dish, or serve it in 
custard glasses. 

CREAM, RASPBERRY. (2) Put six 
ounces of raspberry jam to a quart of cream» 
pulp it through a lawn sieve, mix it with the 
juice of a lemon and a little sugar, and 
whisk it till thick. Serve it in a dish or 
glasses. Slrawben^ ci-eam may be made 
in the same way. For common use,, substi- 
tute good milk for the cream» 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. (1) Pick 
the currants from the stalks, put them into a 
jar closely covered, and stand it in a pan 
of cold water ; let it boil for two hours, strain 
the juice through a sieve, and sweeten it 
well with pouncfed loaf sugar. When cold, 
add a quart of cream to a pint of juice, and 
beat it witli a whiiak till thick. Serve in a 
dtep glass dish. 

CREAM, RED CURRANT. ^2) 
Squeeze three^narters of a pint of juice 
from red currants when full ripe, add to it 
rather more than a quarter of a pound of. 
pounded loaf sugar, and the juice of one 
lemon ; stir it into a pint and a half of cream, 
and whisk it till quite thick. 

CREAM ROSEAT. Beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of four ^ss ; sweeten and 
boil a pint of good milk, drap about three 
table-spoonfub of the froth into it, turn it 
over once or twice with the spoon, take it 
out, and put it upon the back of a tlwn sieve 
placed over a hree plate; repeat this till it 
n aU done; add to the milk another half 
pint, with a little more sugar, and mix it 
witli the beaten yolks of the e^; stir it 
over the fire liH thick ; put it into a basin^ 
and stir now and then tiH nearly cold; add 
a table-spoonfbl of rose water, and one of 
brandv. Serve it in a glass dish, and lay 
the whites of the eggs over the top at equal 
distances. Cut citron and candied orange- 
peel into straws, and put them over the 
whites of die eggs, or strew over them cofer- 
ed comfits. \ 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. Mix one 
er two table-spoonfiils of sified floor of rice 
vidi a Uttk fspod stock, rather cokl than 



hot; add this to sooae boilinff stock, an«t 
keep stirrins till it boils ; and fet it boil till 
mfficiently wick. The flour of rice may bft 
made as follows: — ^Wash in several water* 
a pound of rice; wipe it in a clean towel', 
anid when perfectly. dry pound and sift it 
through a sieve. 

CREAM, SNOW. Take a pint of firesb 
cream, and mix with it eifi^ spoonfuls of 
powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, and 
a spoonfiil of orange-flower water, or any 
other aromatic ingredient you like better;, 
whip it, and remove the froth or snow in 
the usual way. This cream may be colored 
according to your fimcy, with safl^n, car- 
mine, (X indigo. 

CREAMy SOLID. Sqpeeze the juice 
of a large lemon upon three or four table- 
spoonfijls of pounded loaf sugar, add two 
tabfe-spoonfuls of brandy, ana one pint of 
cream ; pour it from one cup into anotho*^ 
till it be sufficiently thick. 

CREAM, SPANISH. BoiT, in half a 
pint of water, half an ounce of isinglass, lilt 
dissoh'ed ; strain, and mix it with a quart 
of cream or gpod milk; if cream, not so> 
much isinglass; stir it over the fire till it 
come to a boil ; when a littEe cooled, add 
gradually the beaten jolks of six eggs, and a 

§lass of white wine. Pour it into a de^ 
ish, sweeten with poundied loaf sugar, stir 
it tiU cold, and then put it into a shape. 

CREAM, STONE. Put three table- 
spoonfiilB of femon-juice, and the grated peel 
of one, some preserved apricots, or any other 
sweetmeat,, into a glass or China dish. Boil 
a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little 
water, till dissolved ; add it to a pint of cream,, 
sweetened well with pounded loaf sugar;, 
boil it, and stir it all tiie time ; pour it into 
a jug, stir it now and then till milk-warm* 
then pour it over the sweetmeat round and 
rouna. It may be made the day before 
being served. 

CREAM, SWISS. (1) Boil the grated 
pee? of a large lemon, and three-quarters of 
a pound of pounded loaf stujar, in a pint of 
cream ; squeeze the juice of the lemon upon 
a table-spoonfhl of flour, work it well togeth- 
er, and gradually add to it the boiling ci*eamy 
and heat it all ova* the fire; pour it into a 
basin, and when nearly cold, put it into a 
glass or China dish, and garnish it with 
candisd orange-peel, and citron cut into 
straws. This cream requires to be constant- 
ly stirred till it is put into the dish in which, 
it IS to be served. 



CREAM^ SWISS. (2) Whidc 



CKO 



59 



CRU 



«tbot platie, die joBu of eight egn, half a 
pound of finely^pouodBd augar, the grated 
rind of a lomon, and- half a pint of light 
French or Rhoiiflh white wine, and send it 
vann to table. 

CREAM TART. See TarC 

CREAM, WHIPPED. Sweeien, with 
pomided loaf angar, a qaut of cream, and 
add to it a kanp of Buiar which has been 
nibbed upon the peel of two fine lemooa or 
bitter oranges; or flavor it with orange- 
flower water, a little OflBeoce of raees, the 
joice of ripe strawberries, or of any other 
frait. Whisk the cream well in a larae pan, 
and as the froth rises, take it off, and lay it 
upon a sieve placed over another pan, and 
ietmti die cream which drains from thefrnoth, 
till all is whisked, then heap it upon a dtsh, 
or put it into glasses. Garnish with diinly- 
pared citron, or cedrat cut into small leaves, 
4)r into any fimcifril shape. To color tlie 
rose cream, or to heighten that of strawber- 
17, a little carmine or bke may be mixed 
with the cream, which may be iced when 
made. 

CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (1) Rub, 
with some lumps of loaf sugar, die rinds of 
six lemons, and grate off the remainder; 
squeeze and strain the juice, and add the 
grated peel and sugar, with three-quarters 
of a pound of pounded loaf sugar ; put to diis 
a quart of rich cream, and whisk it till very 
thick. The following day, soak five or six 
Ax>nge biscuits in while wine, and put over 
them the cream. 

CREAM, WHITE LEMON. (2) Boil 
4he tliin peel of two lemons in a pint of 
creamy strain, and diicken it with the well- 
beaten yolks of three, and whiles of four 
«gg8 ; sweeten it with pounded loaf su^ar, 
stir it till nearly cold, and put It into 



CROQUANTE OF PASTE. Rollout 
paste, about the eighth of an inch thick; 
rub over a plain mould with a little fresh 
butter; lay on the paste very e\'en, and 
equally thin on both sides; pare it round tlie 
rim; then widi a small penknife cut out 
small pieces, as fimcy may direct, such as 
diamonds, stars, circles, sprigs, &c. ; or use 
a small tin cutter of any shape: let it lie to 
dry sometime, and bake it a few minutoB in 
a slack oven, of a light color: ronove it 
ttom the mould, and place it over a tart, or 
any other dish of small pastry. 

CROQUE, These ars large pieces of 
ornament con^tionary, formed of various 
aiaterials, as gimbUUei, croqidgnolUfgen- 



eieet, 4^'» ^ ^ oranges, cot into qoaiters^ 
chestnuts, green nuts. Sec, arranged with- 
in moulds acocMrding to fiuiqf, and crmmtitl 
together with boiled sugar. 

CROQUETS. Pound, in a marUe 
mortar, cold veal and fowl, with a little suet, 
some chopped lemon-ped, lemon thyme, 
diives,ana pardey. Season with nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt ; mix all well togedier, aiM 
add tlie yolk of an egg urell-beaten ; roll it 
into balls, and dip them into an ta beaten 
up, dien sift bread crumbs over tbem, and 
fry them in butter. 

CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. 

Mince stHne boiled meat very small; add to 
it some sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, 
crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, aiid sweei 
herbs; make them into a paste, and form ¥. 
into little balls ; roll diem in very fine ra^ 
ings, and fry diem of a nice color. Serve 
them with sauce piquante, 

CROQUETS OF SWEETBREADS. 
Mince some cold sweetbreads, which liave 
been dressed, and boil them in a sauce ve- 
kxite ; when quite cold, form them into balls, 
or into rolls, about two inches long ; Try and 
ser\'e diem wiUi fried parsley in thie middle. 
Or, make die croauet meat into a rissole. 
Roll out a piece 01 thin puff paste, enclose 
die meat in it, bnisli it over with a beaten 
est^f and strew over it grated bread; fry it 
o? a light brown color. 

CRUMPETS. (1) Make a pint of 
warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, 
strained into a strong batter, with a sufficient 
quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a 
warm place to rise; dien add a quarter of 
a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter 
worked up in a little flour, but only flour 
enough to prevent die batter fixim being too 
diin ; in a quarter of an hour have the iron 
rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; 
pour the batter into these rings, and bake 
them. 

CRUMPETS, OR PIKELETS. (2) 

Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that 
half milk and half water must be used ; and 
to every half-quartern of flour, two egg/i 
must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly. 
Bake tb«n in rings as usual. 

CRUST, FOR VENISON PASTY. 

Work into a paste with warm water, two 
pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine 
flour, and four eggs ; work it smooth, and 
to a good consistence. Tlie paste sliould be 
put round the inside, but not at the bottom 
of the dish; let the cover be tolerably diick, 
to bear the long continuance in the oven. 



cue 



60 



CUL 



GIIUST, RAISED. (1) Melt, in one 
piiit of water, one pound of fresh lard ; weigh 
£>ur pounds of flour, put it into a basin, and ' 
when the water and kurd is hot, with a horn 
spoon stir it by degrees amongHt the flCMir. 
Wlieu well mixed, work it with the hands 
till it is a stiff paste, when it is fit ibr use. 

CRUST, RAISED. (2) Put into a 
saucepan one pint and a haU* o( wato*, four 
pounds of flour, and four ounces and a half 
of buttei' ; stii- it till it is a thick paste, take 
it out, and add the ^olks of three or four 
beaten eggs; work it well tt^ther, roll it 
out rather more tlian half an inch thick ; 
cut out die top and bottom, and a long piece 
of proper depth for die sides. Brush round 
the bottom with well-beaten whites of eggs ; 
set on tlie sides, keeping the paste radier 
widiiu die edge of die bottom ; pinch it all 
round, to make the pieces adhere, then fill 
the pie, and brush round die uppor sides of 
the crust and the outer e^ges of the cover 
with ^g ; lay on the cover, pinch it round 
neady, and ornament it accoixling to fency 
with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings 
made of the paste. 

CRUST SHORT. (1) Pound, sift, 
and dry two ounces of white sugar ; then 
mix it with a pound of well dried flour, rub- 
bing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three 
ounces of butter; dien put the yolks of two 
eggs into some cream, and mix the whole 
into, a smoodi paste; roll it out thin, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. 

CRUST SHORT, not sweet, but 
RICH. (2) Mix into a stiflish paste, us- 
ing as little water as possible, six ounces of 
butler, widi eiglit ounces of fine flour, (rub- 
bing tlie batter well into the flour, before 
.mixing it wiUi the water) beat it well, and 
roll it diin. This cnist is proper as well as 
the above, for tarts of fi^h or preserved 
fioiits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. 

CUCUMBERS STEWED. Peel and 
cot cucumbers in quarters, take out the seeds, 
and lay them on a cloth to drain off (he wa- 
ter: when they are dry, flour and fiy them 
in firesh butter; let tlie butter be quite hot 
before you put in die cucumbers ; fly diem 
till diey are brown, then take them out with 
an eg^-sHce, and lay them on a sieve to 
drain die &t firom them (some cooks fry 
■Heed onions, or some small button onions, 
with diem, till they are a delicate li^ 
brown color, drain tliem fnmi die fat, and 
then put diem into a stewpan with as much 
gravy as will cover diem) : stew slowly till 
tney are tender; take out die cucumbers 
widi a slice, thicken the gravy with flour 
and butter, give it a boil up, season it with 



pqiper and sak, and put in die cocumbersV 
as soon as th^ are warm, they are ready. 
The above, rubbed throush a tamis, or fine 
sieve, will be entitled to be caOed ** cucnm* 
ber sauce." See Cucumber Vinegar. This 
is a very fevorile sauce with lamb or mutton- 
cutlets, stewed rump-steaks, &c. &c. : when 
made fiMr the latter, a third part of sliced 
onion is sometimes fried with the cucumbei. 

CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS, SLIC- 
ED. Cut fiiQ-grown cucumbers into slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and slicp 
scHne onioiis thin ; thai lay them into a disb 
together, and strew salt over diem; cover 
them with anotho' dish, and let tliem re- 
main for twenty-four hours. Put diem in- 
to a cullender to drain, then into a large jar, 
and pour over diem boiled vinegar, three 
successive days ; the last time of boiling die 
vinegar add pepper and ginger, pour it over 
them hot, ana ctosely cover them when cold. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES. Cut a k>ng 
narrow piece out of die sides of large Tur- 
key cucumbers, scoop out the seeds, and 
with a part of them mix some mustard seed, 
shred garlic, and grated horse-radish ; stuff 
the space as full as it will admit of, and re- 
place the piece which was cut off; bind 
them widi a thread; put over them liot 
vin^ar three successive davs, and boil with 
it t£ last time pepper, ffour of mustard, 
suid some salt ; put them into jai-s, and pour 
over diem the boiling vinegiu", and when 
cold, oovo* them close^. 

CULUS. (1) To a c^uart of gravy, put a 
table-spoonful of thickening, or from one to 
two table-spoonfiils of floiu*, according ta 
die thickness you wish die eravy to be, into 
a basin, with a ladleful of die gravy; stir it 
quick ; add die rest by degrees, till it is all 
well mixed ; then pour it back into a stew- 
pan, and leave it by the side of die fire to 
simmer for half an hour longer, that die 
diickening may thoroughly inctuporate with 
the gravy, the stewpan being only half cov- 
ered, stirring it every now and then ; a sort 
of scum will gpather'on die top, whicli it is 
best not to t^e off till you are read^ to 
strain it through a tamis. Take care it is 
neither of too pale nor too dark a color; if 
it is not thick enougli, let it stew longer, till 
it is reduced to the desired diickness; or 
add a bit of glaie, or portable soup to it, 
if it is too thick, you can easily thin it witk 
a spoonfiil or two of warm broth, or wator 
When your sauce is done, stir it in die ho- 
sin you put it into once of twice, while it is 
coolmg. 

CULLI3. (2) Lay over die bottom of a 
stewpan as much lean veal as will cover 



€UR 



61 



CUR 



It an incb ihiek; then coftr the mA with 
flome slices of undressed bacon (Kammon is 
the bert), three • oni<Hi8, three hay leaves, 
some sweet herbs, two hbdes of mace, and 
three doves. Pw mi the lid of the stewpan, 
and set it over a slow fire ; but when the 
joices come out, let the fire be a little quick- 
er. When die meat is of a nice brown ool> 
<M-, fill the stewpan with ^ood beef broth, 
boil and skim it, then let it simmer (or aa 
hour; add a liitle water mixed with as 
BPKidi flour as will snake it proper!^ thick; 
tx>il it half an hour, and strain it. You 
may keep this adlis a week. 

CULUS, A FAMILY ONE. RoH a 

piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stew- 
pan till the flomr is of a fine yellow color. 
Then put in some thin broth: a little gravy, 
a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet 
bmis, two cloves, a little nutoM^ or mace, a 
few mushrooms, pepper and sak. Let it 
stew an hour ova* a slow fire, then skim all 
the &t clean ofi^ and strain it through a 
sieve. 

CULUS, WHITE. Take a pioce of 
veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin 
slices of ham, and two onions, each cut into 
four^ moisten it with broth, seasoned with 
mudu'ooms, a bunch of parnley, green onions, 
tliree cloves, and so let it stew. Being 
stewed, take out the meat and roots with a 
skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and 
let it stew softly; take the white of a fowl, 
or two chickeiiB, and put it into a mortar; 
being well pounded, mix it in the cullis^ but 
it must not boil, and the cuUis must be very 
white; but if not white enoueh, pound two 
dozen of sweet almonds blancncd, and put it 
into the culKs; then boil a elass of milk, and 
add it to the cullis; let it be of a s»od fla- 
vor, and strain it ofi; then put it into a 
smaH kettle, and keep it warm. It may be 
used for white loaves, ciust of white iMread, 
and biscuits. 

CURAGOA. Put five ounces of thin- 
cat Seville orange-peel, that has been cbried 
and poundijd, or, which is still better, of 
the fresh peel of a fredi shaddock, which 
may be bought at the oran^ and lemon 
shops in the beginning of March, into a 
quart of die finest aund cleanest rectified 
spirit ; after it has been infused a fortnight, 
strain it, and add a quut c^ sirup and filter. 
See the following receipt. 

CURACOA; ho^ to hakx a 
QUART. To a pint of the cleanest and 
strongest rectified spirit, add two drachms 
and a half of the sweet oi^of orange^eel; 
shake it up: dissolve a pound of go^ linnp 
sugar in a pint of cold water ; maxe this in- 



to m fck iifi e d sirap, which add to d» 
spirit: shake it up, and let it stand till the 
feUowing day: then line a fimnd widi a 
piece of muslin, and that with fihsria^ 
paper, and filter it two or three times till it 
IS quite bright. This Uqoor b an admira- 
ble cordial ; and a tea'CpooiifiU io a tanbler 
of water is a very reftesning snmmfr drink, 
and a great improvemmt to punch. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (1) Whh 

about half a tab l e op oonfiil of rennet, turn 
two quarts of milk iust fimn the cow ; drain 
off the whey, and fiu a mouhl with the curd; 
when it has stood an hoar or two, turn it 
out. Strew colored comfits over it, sweeten 
some cream, mix grated nutmeg with it, 
and pour it rdund tM curd. 

CURDS AND CREAM. (2) Put two. 

quarts of new milk into the dish in whidi it 
in to be sen'ed, and turn it with a tea-spoon- 
fiil of rennet; when the curd hascome, serva 
it with cream in a separate dish. 

CURRANTS, AND OTHER FRUIT, 
TO CANDY. BoU the fiuit m darified 
shgar as for preserving; take it out of the 
sirup and drain it upon sieves; sift over it 
dirough a lawn sieve, till quite white, pound- 
ed loaf sugar. Place them in a cool oven, 
and tium and dust them with sugar till dry. 

CURRANT FRITTERS WITHOUT 
EGGS. Stir into half a pmt of miU ale, 
as much flour as will make it into a thick 
batter ; add a little sugar and a few currants ; 
beat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop 
it into boiling lard. 

CURRANT MARMALADE. Take 
some ripe red currants, pick them, and 
squeeze out the juice from some of them ; put 
to it 8<Hiie juice of raspberries ; then put to ' 
this the whole currants, boil them gentfy ; 
^nd when they begin to break, put in an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to candv height ; 
boil them together, mash them as they lx>il ; 
skim them, put in some rose water, and 
when it becomes as thick as marmalade, put 
it into pots. 

CURRANT PUDDING. Se€ PwU 



CURRANTS FOR TARTS. Gather 
the fruit perfectly dry, and before it be too 
ripe, pick it €ewn the stalks, and put it into 
clean, dry, wide-mouthed bottles; if th9 
flavor of raspbories is apinroved, some majr 
be added with the currants ; tie tightly qver 
eadi bottle a piece of sound bladder previ- 
oudy soaked in water; set them into a pan 
of cold water with a little straw at the bot- 



CUR 



62 



CUR 



Com, and a little between the bottlfes ; put 
them on tlie fire, and when tliey begin to 
flinuner, keep tliem in that itate about three* 
quarten of 9H hour, but tliey nuist not be 
allowed to boil y take the pan off the fire ; 
the bladdeni will be raised, but will iall soon 
after, and ailkk into the mouth of the bottlcf! ; 
in an hour, take them out, and tie strons 
paper over each, and set them in a dry cool 
place. The bottles may be placed in a 
iwttle rabk with the neck downwards. 
Damsons, chories, and gooseberries, may 
be done in this way; anv sort will keep for 
a year. Out off the staiks of the cherriesr 
and top and tail the gooseberries. 

CURRANT TART. See TarU. 

CURRIES. Cut fowls or rabbits into 
joints, and wash than clean ; put two oiinees 
of buttor into a stewpan : wh^ it is melted, 
put in the meat, and two middling-sized 
onions sliced, let them be over a smait fire 
till th^ are of a light l»X)wn, then put in 
half a pint of broth ; let it simmer twenty 
minutes. Put in a basin one or two tabl^ 
spoonfiib of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of 
floor, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix it 
smooth with a little coU water, put it into 
the stewpan, and shake it well about till it 
boils: let it simmer twenty minutes loiiger; 
then take out the meat, and rub the sauce 
through a tamis or sieve: add to it two ta- 
ble-spoonfiils of cream or milk ; give it a 
boil up; then' pour it into a dish, lay tlie 
meat over it: send up the rice in a s^jarate 
dish. 

CURRY. Cot a fowl into small pieces, 
skin it, and let it blanch in cold water for 
two hours ; mmce an onion very small, and 

Cit it into a saucepan, with two ounces of 
itter, and a large tablenspoonful of flour 
ci rice stirred in by degrees ; brown it well, 
and when just boiling, add a quart of cold 
water, with the pieces of fowl and a laroe 
table-spoonful of curry powder mixed in it. 
Let it cwil till the fowl be quite tender, and 
just before serving, squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over the blade of a knife into 
it. Vin^rair will answer instead of the 
juice; and if it be required very fine, in 
place of rice, thidcen it with an ounce of ^ 
sweet almonds blanched and pounded. 

CURRY BALLS for Moek TurtU, 
Veal, PouUrfl,, Made DuheB, ^e, Ara 
made with bn»d*«rumbs, the volk of an 
tfg boiled hard, and a bit of fresh butter 
about half as big, besUen together in a nwr- 
tar, and aeasooMl with curry powder. 

CURRY, DRY. Skin and cut a fowl 
into joinft, or take off anatt cutkta firam 



the best end of a neck of veal ; fry in butter 
tlifee or four minced onions, and drain 
them ; then fry the fowl or veal, and dust it 
witli three iea-spoonfiile of cuny powder, 
and a quarter of a tea-spoonfol of Cayenne* 
Put the fried meat and onions into a stew- 
pan, with a little salt, half a pint hi milk, 
and the same quantity of water; keep die 
pan closely covered, sind let it stew till per- 
fectly tender, and ten minutes before serv- 
ing, add two tea-spoonfuls of lemon-juice. 

CURRY, FISH. Afrer a cod-fisli, liad- 
dock, or mackerel has lain some hours in 
sak, cut it into pieces, and stew it in water 
si^cient to cover it, into which a large ta- 
ble spoonful of curry powder has been mix» 
ed. Fry in a quarter of a pound, of butter, 
a shallot and two or three onions minced, 
a little pepper and salt.- When well browu- 
ed, add it to the fish, and stew all logethct 
till it be quite tender. Sprats make a gnad 
curry, but should be stewed in less water. 

CURRY, INDIAN. Stew in two ounc- 
es of butter, for ten minutes, a teaspoonfiit 
of Cayenne, and one of pepper, a desseit- 
spoonfol of pounded coriander seed, six 
small onions, and two lieads of garlic min- 
ced. Cut the fowl or rabbit into small 
pieces, and cover it over with the curd of 
sweet milk. Put the whole into a stewpan, 
with as much boiling water as may be de* 
sired for sauce, and let it simmer till very 
tender. 

CURRY POWDER. (1) Put tlie follow- 
ing ingixxlients in a cool oven all night, and 
the next morning pound them in a marble 
morcar, and rub them through a fine sieve. 
Coriander-seed, tliree ounces, turmeric, tliree 
ounces, black p«>per, mustard, and ginger, 
one ounce of ^ch, allspice and less cania- 
mons, half an ounce of each, cumin seed, 
a quarter of an ounce. Thoroughly pound 
and mix together, and keep them in a well^ 
stopped bottle. Those who are fond of 
ciBTy sauces, may steq> three ounces oi the 
powder in a quart of vinegar or white wine 
for ten days, and will get a liquor impreg- 
nated with all the flavor of the powder. 

CURRY POWDER. (2) Pound ex^ 
tr^fnely fine, in a mortar, six ounces of co- 
riander seed, three ounces of pepper, one 
ounce and a half of fennigreck seed, one 
ounce of cumin seed, tlupee ounces of tur- 
meric, and three-quartors of an ounce of 
Cayenne ; sift it through muslin, and put it 
bewre the fire for four or five hours, stirring 
it every now and thm^ Keep it in a bottJo 
with a glass stopper, 

CURRY OF VEAL, FOWL, &c. Fyy 



cus 



«S 



cus 



iHioed Teal, rabbit, fowl, or tweetbreafds, in a 
good deal of batter, diistinf it with floor. 
I>i]st one side witli curry powder; then turn 
and dual the other, strewing over it finely- 
mioced onions, taking care not to burn them. 
When the meat is of a light brown, add 
some white stock, widi a little salt; stew it 
till tender. Before serving, skim off the ht, 
and add a tea-spoonfiil of iemon-jaioe or 
vin^ar. Rabbit, fowl, and sweetbreads 
«hotUfd be parboiled. 

CUSTARD. (1) Sweeten a quart of diin 
cream, or good milk, with poimded loaf 
su^ar; boil it with a bit of cinnamon, and 
lialf the peel of a lemon ; strain it, and when 
a little cooled, mix it gradually widi the 
Mrell-beaten yolks of ten e^; stir it over a 
slow fire till it be pretty thick, poor it into a 
basin, and add a tablenspoonfoi of roee water, 
and one of brandy; keep stirring it every 
-now and then till cold, and then put it into 
glasses, cups, or a dish. It may be made 
the day before it is used. 

CUSTARD. (2) Bon a pint of milk 
nvith lemon^peel and cinnamon; mix a pint 
of cream, and the yolks of five e§^, well 
beaten ; when the milk tastes of the season- 
ing, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour 
it into the cream, stirring it well ; Chen ^ive 
the custard a simmer tillof a proper thick- 
ness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole 
time one way; then season with a large 
spoonful of peach water, and tvro teanspoon- 
tuls of brandy, or a little ra^pifia. If yott wish 
yom* custards to be extremely rich, pot no 
inilk, but a quart of cream. 

CUSTARDS. (3) Take six eggs, 
leave out the whites; mix your eggs and 
flu^ toother with some roee water ; then 
boil a pint of cream, and put in the e^ 
(the cream must not boil after the eggi have 
been put in). Stir them to prevent them 
Irom curdling. 

CUSTARDS, ALMOND. Blanch and 
pound fine, with half a gill of roee water, six 
ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter 
almonds; boil a pint of milk, as in Baked 
Custard sweeten it with two ounces and a 
half of sugar; rub the almonds through a 
fine sieve, with a pint of cream; strain tbe 
milk to the yolks of eight eggs, and the 
whites of three well-beaten ; stir it over a 
fire till it is of a good diickness; take it off 
the fire, and stir it till nearly cold, to |H%vent 
its curdling. N. B. — The above may be 
baked in cups, or in a dish, with a rim of 
2>uff paste put round. 

CUSTARD, APPLE. Take thirty 
fine apples, and pierce out the eores of ttn 



of them which are of an eqoa] siae; pore 
and trim them neatly, and boil them in six 
ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and 
cut the remaining apples very small, and put 
tliein into tlie above sirup; shred the rind 
of an orange, and mix with them ; stir the 
whole constantly to fnnevent their sticking 
to the pun ; when sufficiently done nfo the 
marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. Pre- 
pare tlie crust as before mentioned, but dress 
the sides a little higher; mix two spoonfols 
of apricot mannaude with that of your 
aj^les, and then put four spoonfols of it into 
the custard ; place the whole af^les, (hav- 
ing put apricot marmalade in thie place of 
the cores), an4 then add the remainder of 
the apple marmalade, taking care not to 
cover tlie apples with it. FiniiAi as above. 
At the instant of serving it mask it with 
apple jell^, apricot or quince marmalade* 
dierry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top 
of each apple with a cherry or verjuioe-beny. 
Serve this hot or cold. 

CUSTARD, APRICOT GLAZED. 
CvA twenty fine apricots in half, take out 
the stones; toss up twelve apricots in foor 
ounces of powder-sugar, and place them in 
a cream according to the directions for 
apple custard; bake and glaze as therein 
directed. Put a glass of water and a quar- 
ter of a pound of powder-sugar with the 
rest of tlie tmi into a preserving-pan ; when 
the sirup is properly reduced, take the skin 
from the apricots and arrange them in the 
custard; garnish each half apricot with a 
kernel, and when ready to serve, pour the 
sirup on it. Serve hot or cold. 

CJUSTARD, BAKED. (1) Boil a 
pint of cream with mace and cinnamon; 
when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two 
of the whites, a little rose and orange-flower 
water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and 
sugar to your taste; mix them well togkher, 
and bake them in china cups. 

CnUSTARD, BAKED. (2) Boil in a 
pint of milk, a few coriander seeds, a little 
cinnamon and lemon-peel; sweeten with 
foiir ounces of loaf sugar, and mix with it a 
pint of cold milk ; b^t well ei^t egp for 
ten minutes, and add the other angredients; 
pour it fircHn one pan into another six or 
eight times, strain it through a sieve, and 
let it stand some time ; skim off the fi^th 
from the top, fill it in earthen cups, and 
bake them immediatdy in a liot oven, give 
them a good color; aoout ten minutes will 
do them. 

CUSTARD, BOILED. (1) Boil in a pint 
of milk, five minutes, lemon-peel, corianders, 
and cinnamon, a snudl quantity of each. 



cus 



64 



CCS 



tnlfa dozen of bitter almonds, Usmciied and 
pounded, and four ouiioesof loaf sugar: mix 
It with a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, 
and the whites of six, wefl-beaten; pass it 
through a hair sieve, stir it with a whisk 
over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, re- 
move it from the fire, and continue to stir 
k till nearly cold ; add two table-qioonfiils 
of brandy, fill the caps or glasses, and grate 
nutmeg over. - 

taJSTARDS, BOILED. (2) Put a 

quart of new milk into a stewpan, with the 
pet^l of a lemon cut very thin, a little grated 
mifiueg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small 
stick of cinnamon ; set it over a quick fire, 
but be careful it does not boil over: wlien it 
boilp, set it beside the fire, and sinmier ten 
minutes ; break tlie yolks of eight, and the 
\vhites of four eggp9 into a basin ; beat them 
"Well ; then pour in the milk a little at a 
time, stirring it as quick as possible to pre- 
vent the feggs cardling; set it- on the fire 
again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; 
let it have just one boil ; pass it throueh a 
tamis^ or -fine sieve: when cold add a utde 
brandy, or white wine, as may be most 
agreeable to the eater's palate. Serve up 
in glasses, or cups. Custards 'for baking 
are prepared as above, passed through a 
fine sieve; put them into cups ; grate a little 
nutmeg over each: bake them about fifteen 
or twenty mmutes. 

CUSTARD, COMMON. Boil a pint 
of milk with a bit of cinnanion and two or 
three laurel leaves; mix with one table- 
spoonfld df flour, or potato flour, two and a 
half of cold milk, pat it into a lawn sieve, 
and pour the boiling milk upon it; let it 
run into a basin, mix in by degrees the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs; sweeten, and 
stir il over the &« for a few minutes to 
thicken. 

CtJSTARpS OR CREAMS, to Orna- 
ment. Whisk for one hour the whites of 
two egOB together with two tablenspoonfiils 
of ra^berry, or red currant sump or jelly; 
lay it in any form upon a custard or cream. 

Sued up to imitate rock. It may be served 
1 a dish with cream round it. 

CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of 
cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
and about a third of a pint of mild sti'ong 
ale ; sweeten, and stir it^over the fire till it 
nearly boils, then pour it into a dish, in the 
bottom of which is laid thin toasted breads 
cut into square bits. 

CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. 
Have ready a tin or cof^r mould, and line 
it compJetely with pa8te> taking care that it 



takes all the form of die mould. Tlien take 
a sufficient quantity of apricots, peaches, 
plums, or any other (rutt you please ; and 
having taken out the 8tonc8,seods, ai^ stalks, 
mix the fiiiit up with powder-sugar; put it 
into the crust, and bake it io a hot oven. 
When ready for table, mask it with the 
sirup and Kemek, blancbed and cut in 
halves. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (1) Boil two 
glasses of white wine, half a pint of water, 
and two table-spoonftils of brandy; wlien 
nearly ookl, add the grated peel and juice 
of two lemons, with half a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six 
e^|8; stir it over a slow fire till it Uiickens, 
pour it into a basin, and stir now and then 
till cokl; put it into a dish, or ci^, with 
sified loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, LEMON. (2) Put the 
juice of four lesions, with three ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, into a deep dish. Boil 
the grated peel of one lemon and two ounces 
of pounded loaf sugar in a quart of cream, 
and poor it over the joioe andsugai. It 
will keqp for four days. 

CUSTARD, ORANGE. Sweeten the 
strained juice.of ten oranges with pounded 
loaf sugar, stir it over the fire till hot, take 
off the scum, and when nearty cold add to it 
the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, and a pint 
of cream; put it into a saucepan, and stir 
it over a slow fire till it thickens. Serve in 
cups or a dish. 

CUSTARD, RICE. Mix a pint of 
milk, half a pint of cream, one ounce of sift- 
ed ground rice, five or six bitter almonds, 
blanched and pounded with two tatN^-spoon- 
fuls of rose water; sweeten with kxif sugar, 
and stir it all togethei* till it nearly boils; 
add the well-beaten yo!ks of three ^gs; 
stir, and let it simmer for about a minute ; 
pour it into a dish, or serve it in cups, with 
sified loaf sugar over the top. 

CUSTARD, TURKEY. Put a pound 
and a half of good rice into cold water over 
the fire, and when it boils, take it off and 
drain it well ; then put it into a large 8aiice<- 
pan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a 
pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which 
have been rasped the peels of four omnges 
or cedrats, and a gram of salt. Put the 
saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the 
rice, taking care that none of the grains 
hurst; stir it a little, and when done, add 
to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks 
of twelve ^gs, and some spooofols of Vhm^ 
Ully cream ; after which mix in the twelve 
whites whipped firm. Prepare (he crust in 



DAM 



65 



DEV 



ikm vmml war; bake it 
two houn and a balf ; 



twown it with a 



wlm rea^y ibrtafab. 



Mix 



CUSTARD, TURNING OUT. 

with atm weH-bealen yolks of Ibar em a 
IMot of new milk, half an ooooe of ieinMSi 
diflsolved, or enough of calTs-fe^ stock to 
stifien it, and two lanrd leaves; sweeten 
with pounded loaf saiar, and stir it over a 
slow fire tifl it thiwens; poor it into a 
insin, apd stir it till a little cooled, then 
pour it into cups to turn out when quita cold. 
Beat tlie yoHu of two em with a little 
cream; add it to nearly half a pound of 
brown sugar hnrat; strain it torough a 
sieve, and when cold pour it round the cus- 



D. 



DAMSONS BOTTLED. Gather diem 
tHi a dry day before they are ripe, when they 
have just turned tlieir ookM*. iSit them in 
wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close, and 
let them stand a fortnight; then carefuliy 
examine them, and tf any of them are 
mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bot- 
tles, and cork the mt close. Put the bot- 
tles in sand, and diey will keep good tiU the 
«pring. 

DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a 
^ood hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, by it 
m a basin, and pot in as many damscMis as 
you please. Wet the edge of the paste and 
close it up ; boil it in a doth for an hour ; 
pour melted buttn' over it, grate sugar round 
the edge of the dish, and serve. 

DAMSON JELLY. 8e» Jelly. 

DAMSON, OR OTHER PLUM 
CHEESE. Take damsons that have been 
preserved without sugar ; pass them through 
« sieve, to take out the skins and stones. 
To everr potmd of pulp of firuit put half a 
pound of loaf sugar, broke small; boil them 
together till it becomes quite stiff ; pour it 
into four common-sized dinner plates, rubbed 
widi a little sweet oil ; put it into a warm 
place to dry, and when quite firm, take it 
firom the plate, and cut it into any shape you 
choose. It. B. — Damson cheese is generally 
used in desserts. 

DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. 
Gather the damsons when just ripe, and per- 
fectly sound ; fill a two-^lo'n brandy keg, 
and pour over two pounds 6f molasses; dose 
the keg fihply, and tatn it every day. 



DEER HORNS. BeaA one whita, anA 
six yolks of tgg^; mix them with five table 
noonfiils of pounded and siAed loaf sqgar, 
the same ouantity ofvweet cream» ten sweet 
almonds, bbunched and poonded, the grated 
ped of one lemon, and as mnch floor as will 
make the whole into a paste snflfeiently 
thick to roll ouL Then cut it with tins lor 
the purpose, into the form of horns, braach- 
es, or any other shape, and throw them into 
boiling lard. 

DEVIL. (1) Sconthelegof aroastedtnr- 
key, qpoose, or fowl; pc^^per and sak it weU, 
broU It, and poor over it die following sauoe 
nrnde cpiite hot: three tableHBOonfiili of gra- 
vy, one of melted butter, ana one of lemon 
jttioe, a laqie wine-ghun of Port wine, of 
mustard, Qiili vin^ar, Harv^ sauce, and 
mudiroom catchup, a lea-spooniul each ; a lit- 
tle Gayenne and pepper. The devil may be 
served without a sauce, and be more highly 
seasoned. When this dish is to be senred 
cold, the fot being carefiilly removed fixxn the 
goose, it may be omamenied or covered with 
cold jelly made as follows :~>Boil for five 
houn in four quarts of water the bones of the 
goose, with three nicely cleaned calf's feet, 
strain it, and when cold take off all the fot, 
and boil the jelly with some whole pepper, 
gin^, and salt; add two ounces of disBMv- 
ed uin^am, die juioe c^ two lenMMis, and 
the beaten whiles of three or four eggs; stir 
it while it is opon the fire, and albw it to 
boil about ten minutes ; then run it through 
a jelly-bag, and repeat this till it becomes 
quite clear. 

DEVIL. (S) Theginardandnimp,or 
legs, kc. of a drestod turkey, capon, or 
goose, or mutton or veal kidney, socNred, 
peppered, salted, and broiled, sent up for a 
relish, beinf made very hot, has obtained 
the name ot a " devil." 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (1) Turn 
some new milk from the cow with a little 
rennet ; sweeten some thick cream, add a 
little pounded cinnamon, make it scalding 
hot, and when cold pour it over the curd, 
and put a little wine and sugar into the hot- 
t5m of the dish. 

DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. (2) Turn 
stHne new milk, as for cheese cakes, in a 
wide shallow dish ; when cold, pour over the 
top a pint of rich cream mixed with pouided 
k)af sugar, six dessert spoonfids of orandy, 
and some grated'nutmeg. 



DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. 

up a pint of feream with four eggs, a little 
salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a {^ deal of 



6* 



Due 



e6 



DUC 



tagar; then sKoe very thhi,idiii06t tbe ivliole 
•f tlie cnm of a peoay loaf ; put it into a 
diah ; poor the eggi and crealtai to it ; a 
handful of Smyrna miBins boiled, and a 
tittle sweet bolter : bake it. 

DIGESTER. An iron boiler, with a 
top to screw on, to prevent the steam from 
-escaping. 

DRIPPINGS, TO CLARIFY. Put 

3rour di-ipping into a clean saucepan over a 
stove or slow fire; when it is just going to 
boil, skim it well, let it boil, and then fet it 
stand till it is a litde cooled; then pour it 
tlirough a sieve into a pan. 06s. — ^Well- 
cleansed drippings, and the &t skimminsB 
of the brotli-pot, when fresli and sweet, will 
baste ei'erytfaing as well as butter except 
game and poultry, and sliould supply die 
place of butter for connmon fries, &c«; for 
whidi iktey are equal to lard, especially if 
you repeat tlie darifying twice over. N. B. 
— ^If you keep '.t in a cool place, you may 
pre8er>'e it a fortnight in summer, and long- 
er in whiter. Wlien you liave done fiying, 
let tlie dripping stand a few minutes to set- 
tle, and tlien pour it through a sieve into a 
clean basin or stone pan, and it will do a 
second smd a tliird time as well as it did 
the first; only tlie £it you have fried fisli in 
must not be used for any otiier purpose. 

DRINK, COOLING. A palatable and 
cooling drink may be made by pouring liot 
water over slices of lemon ; when coM, to 
be strained and sweetened. 

PUCK. Mind your dock is well clean- 
ed, and wiped out witli a clean cloth : for the 
btufiing, take an ounce of onion and half an 
ounce of green suae ; cliop the»ii very fine, 
and mix them with two ounces, i. e. a1)cut 
a bieakfast-cupful, of bread crumbs, a bit 
of butter about as big as a walnut, a very 
little bbck paiper and salt, and the yolk of 
an egg to bina it; mix these thoroughly to- 
gether, and put into the duck. From half 
to three-quarters of an hour will be enough 
to roast it, according to tlie size : contrive 
to have the feet delicately crii^p, as some 
people are very fond of them ; to do this 
nicely you must have a sharp fire. 

DUCK, TO BOIL. Make a paste,al- 
lowing half a pound of butter to a pound of 
ilour. Truss a duck as for1x)iling ; put in- 
to the inside a little pepper and salt, one or 
two sage leaves, and a little onion finely 
minced ; enclose the duck in the paste, with 
a little Jellied vravy. Boil it in a 'cleth, and 
aenre it with orown gravy poui*cd round it. 

DUCKS, TO CHOOSE. Their feet 



sbould be supple, and Aev should fae iiwd 
andthick'eo the breast and belly. Tbefeet 
of a tame duckmre tkatAi, and inclining to a 
dusky yellow. The feet of a wild dude are 
reddish, and smaHer than the tame ; they 
shootd be picked dry. DackiingB should hie 

DUCK, DRESSED IN DIFFERENT 
WAYS/ Take either a kivge ducky or two 
dudelings, which truss like a fowl for buil- 
ing ; pat it into a pot (just about largr 
enough to hold the duck) witli diin slices o£ 
bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, p^per, 
salt, onions, carrots, a liqad of celery «iiced, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a 
bay4eaf ; when done, take out the duck, 
wipe tlie fet off very clean, and serve widi 
wliat sauce or ragout you choose, such as 
sweetbreads, green-peas, turnips, chestnuts, 
olives, cucumbers, or any sort c^ stewed 
greens, according to the season. 

DUCKS, GEESE, DRESSED, OR 
HASHED. Cut an onion into small dice; 
put it into a stewpan wiUi a bit of butter; 
fry it, but do not let it get any color; put 
as much boiling water into die stewpan as 
will make sauce for die hash; thicken it 
widi a little fiour ; cut up the duck, and put 
it into Uie sauce to warm; do not let it 
boil; season it witli pepper and salt, and 
CAtchup. Divide die duck into joints; lay 
it by ready ; put the trimmings and stufiiug 
into a stewpan, widi a pint and a half ot 
brod) or water ; let it boil half an hour, and 
dien rub it du'ough a sieve ; put lialf an 
ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as it melts, 
mix a table-spoonful of flour with it; stir it 
over the fire a few minutes, then mix tJte 
gravy with it by degrees ; as soon as it hoilfi, 
take ufT the scum, and strain through a. 
sieve into a stewpan ; put in the duck, a>iri 
lot it stew verv gently for ten or fifteen inin- 
ntes, if the diit-k is i-atliei* under-roa<sted : 'C 
there is any fat, skim it off: line the (Ush 
you sei-ve it up in with sippets of bre.iii 
eitlier filed or toasted. 

DUCK OR GOOSE FORCED. C<;t 
the goose open at the bark, and careri:i!v 
take out the bones, excepting those of t\ie 
legs and wings. Take out all uie meat fn»;ii 
tlie body, leaving die skin perfectly wh..-le. 
Witli the meat pound diree-quarters of a 
pound of lean and tender beef, add three 
haudfuls of gnited bread, four well-beaten 
eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream ; 
season with pepper, mace, and salt ; mix 
it all well together; let it stand for half an 
hour, and tlien put it into the goose, which 
sew op, and make it of as natural a form as 
possible ; but take care that it be not too 
much stuffed. Boil it for half an hoar in 



Due 



67 



DUM 



aome good fltock, and then put it into a flat 
tin baking-pan, with aoine rresh butter over 
and under it. Bake it iiT an oven anollier 
half hour, and serve it with the foHowing 
.sauce: Brown a table-Bpoonfiil of butter 
with flour, add about a pint of the stock 
in which the goose has been boiled, three 
grated* onions, two table-spoonfuls of capers 
cut fine, a little lemon pickle, and a few 
small pickled onions ; boil it about a quar- 
ter of an hour, and just befoi-e pouring it 
over the goose, stir in gradually lialf a pint 
of rich cream. 

DUCK, HASHED, Qrt a duck in 
pieces, and flour it ; put in a stewpan some 
^-ai'y, a little Port wine, slmllats cliopped 
fine, suit, pepper, and a bit of lemon ; Imil 
this ; tlien put in the duck, toss it up, take 
out the lemon, and serve with toasted sippets. 

DUCKS ROASTED. Season tliem 
with sage and onion shred, pep{)er and salt ; 
half an hour will roast tliem. Gi'ax'j'-sauce 
or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and 
onion in a little water, as it prevents its 
eating strong, and takes ofl* tiie mwncss of 
diem. 

DUCK, TO STEW. (1) Cut, one or two 
ducks into quarters ; fry them a light brown 
in butter; put them into a saucepan, with 
a pint of grayj', a tea-cupful of Port wine, 
four onions whule, pepper and some salt, a 
bunch of pai*sley, two sage leaves, a sprig 
of winter savory, and sweet miujorani. 
Cover die pan closely, and stew them till ten- 
der; take out the herbs and pepper; skim it; 
if tlie sauce be not sutficientiy thick, mix wiih 
two table-spooufuls of it a little flour, .and 
stir it into the saucepan ; boil it up, and 
garaish tlie dish wkh the four onious. 

DUCI^, TO STEW. (2) Put into a duck 
some pepper, salt, a minced onion, and one 
leaf of sage also minced ; half roast it ; 
brown with two ounces of buttei*, a table- 
spoonful of flour ; add ad much weak stock 
or water as will half cover the duck, and 
some pepper and salt ; put in the duck, and 
a quart of gi^een peas ; let it stew for half 
an hour, stirring it now and then. For a 
variety, a dozen of middling-sized onions 
may be substituted for tlie peas, and stew- 
ed the same length of time. Cold roasted 
duck may be dressed exactly in the same 
manner; and to hash it, cut it into joints, 
and heat it thoroughly in gravy, adding a 
little soy, and a glass of Port wine. 

DUCK, WILD. These birds should be 
iat, the claws small, reddish and supple ; if 
not fresh, on opening the beak they wiQ 



smell disagreeable ; the breast and ranp 
i should be firm and hea^y ; tlie flesh of the 
hen-bird is the most delicate, tliough the 
cock seoerally fetches the highest price. 
Pick them dry, cut the wings very close to 
tlie body, take off the necks, draw and singe 
them, truss up the legs and skewer theai ; 
and having nibbed uiem widi their livers, 
spit, and roast diem ; take them up with 
the gravy in, and serve with lemons. 

DUCK, WILD, SALMIS OF. Cut 

ofl* the best parts of a couple of roasted wild 
ducks, and put the i-est of tlie metit into a 
mortar, with six shallots, a little parsley, 
some pepper, and a bay-leaf, pound all these 
ingi^ients together well, and tlien put tluMn 
into a saucepan with four ladle^fiil of stock, 
half a glass of white wine, the same of 
broth, and a little grated nutmeg; i^uce 
these to half, strain them, and having laid 
the pieces on a dish, cover tliem with the 
above : keqi the whole liot, not boiling, un- 
til wanted km* table. 

DUMPl INGS, HARD. Mix as for a 
paste, some flour with small beer or water, 
and a little salt ; roll them' in balls rather 
larger than an egg; wlien the water boils 

j put them in: half an hour will boil tlKm; 

j curra'jts may be added; they are good boil- 
ed with heef. They are eaten eidier with 
cold or melted/butter. 

DUMPLINGS, HALF-HOUR. Mnce 
finely half a pound of suet, mix it with the 
same proportion of grated bread, and a ta- 
ble-spoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound 
of curmnts, some sugar, a little grated lem- 
on-peel, nutmeg, and three well-beaten e^gs; 
roll the mixture into round balls, tie them 
in bitu of linen, and boil dicm for half an 
hour. Serve with melted butter and sugar 
poured over them. 

DUMPLINGS, NORFOLK. With a 
pint of milk, two eg?s, a little salt, and 
some flour, make a batter; drop this in 
small quantities into a pot of l>oiling wate ; 
they will be boiled in tliree minutes; Uirow 
them into a sieve or cullender to drain. 

DUMPLING PASTE. Make a paste 
with flour, milk, salt and yeast; let it stand 
sometime in a warm place to ferment; tlien 
cut die paste into pieces of what size yon 
please, and boil them a good while; let 
them cool; then cut each into two, and 
soak them in milk sugar, and lemon-peel, 
about an hour, and drain and flour them fit 
for firyin* ; or, you may dip them in oil or 
melted butter to broil, basting with the 
same as they were dipped in. 



EEL 



68 



EEL 



DUTCH CREAM CHEESE. Bent 
the yolks of eight, and the whites of three 
e^j and mix them with a pint of butter 
milk; add this \o tliree quails of boiling 
milk just from the cow ; let it boil up once, 
take it off tlie fii*e, cover it, and let it stand 
B little that the curd may foi-m ; then put it 
into a small hair sieve, and press it with a 
weight for twenW-four hours, when it may 
be tui-ned out. It is eaten with cream and 
sugar. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. (1) Boil, 
with a pint of white wine, some sugar, the 
jiii(te of two, and the peel of one lemon, a 
stick of cinnamon, and half an ounce of dis- 
8f)lved isingkiss ; strain, and mix it with the 
weli-bcaten yolks of seven eggs, stir it over 
tlie fire till it simmer, but do not allow it to 
Ixiil ; stir it till quite cold, and put it into a 
/sIiHiie. 

DUTCH FLUMMERY. ^2) Boil for 
ten minutes, in lialf a pint of \vhite wine, and 
die same proportion of water, the juice of 
three, and tlie peel of two lemons, rather 
more than a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
and an ounce of binglass dissolved ; strain, 
and mix it gi-adually with the beaten yolks 
of five eg^s ; put it again over the fire, and 
stir it for five minutes; stir it till cold, and 
put it into a shape. 



E. 



ECHAUDE'S. Lay a quartern of flour 
on a pasteboard or slab, make a hole in the 
centre, in which put an ounce of salt, and a 
little water to dissolve it, a pound of butter, 
twenty eggs; mix tlie two latter well to- 
getlier, then the fluur; work it thoroughly 
with your hands, if it be very firm add more 
eggs. Wlien perfectly smooth, sprinkle a 
cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set 
it in a cool place for ten or twelve hours. 
The next day lieat about three quarts of 
water, and having cut your paste into small 
pieces, alx)ut an inch square, and having 
floured each, put them into hot but not boil- 
ing water, sliake the kettle the instant after 
you have thrown them in, and as they rise, 
if tliey are firm to tlie touch, th^ are suf- 
ficiently done, and must be taken out of the 
 saucepan, and thrown into cold water; let 
them remain two or three hours ; then drain, 
and leave tliem again fur three liours or 
oio^, and then bake them for about twenty 
minutes. 

EELS AND SOLES, stewkd Wio- 
GT*8 WAY. Take two pounds of fine sil- 



ver eels: tlie best are thoee that are rathar 
more than a half-crown piece in circomfer- 
ence, quite fresh, fiiU of life, and '< as brisk 
as an eel:** wash them in several different 
waters, and divide them into piepes about 
four inches long. Some cooks, dredge them 
with a little flour, wipe them dry, and then 
e^ and ciiimb ttwm, and fry them in drip- 
pings till they are brown, and lay them to 
dry on a hair sieve. Have ready a quart 
of good beef gravy ; it must be cold when, 
you put the eeb into it: set them on a slow 
fire to simmer vciy gently for about a quar- 
ter of an hour, according to the size of the 
eels; watch them, that tliey are not done 
too much; take them carefiilly out of the 
stewpan with a fishnslioe, so as not to tear 
their coats, and lay them on a dish about 
two inches deep. 

EELS BAKED. Skin and clean mxaa 
eels ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eeb in 
lengths according to the depth of the pan ; 
put them in, letting them stand upright in 
it ; the pan should oe filled ; put in a little 
water, some salt, pepper,' shallots cut small, 
some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut 
small ; set them in the oven to bake ; when 
tiiey are done take the liquor that comes 
from them, put it into a saucepan, and thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little wliite wine. 

EELS BOILED. Small ones are pre- 
ferable. Cufl and put them on in boiling 
salt-and-water, with a little vinegar. Gat - 
nisli with parsley. Sauce; — pai'slcy and 
butter. 

EELS COLLARED. Take an eel, nnd 
cut it open ; take out the bones ; cut ofl* tlie 
head and tail; lay tlie eel flat, and shied 
sage as fine as possible; mix with black 
pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and t>alt ; 
lay it all over the eel ; roll it up hard in a 
cloth ; tie it up tight at each end ; then set 
over the fire some water, with pepper and 
salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades 
of mace, a bay-leaf or two ; boil these with 
the bones, head, and tail, well ; then put in 
the eel, and boil it till it is tender ; then take 
it out, and boil tlic liquor, and when it ia 
cold, put it to the eel ; do not take ofl* the 
cloth till you use them. 

EELS FRIED. Cut them into pieces 
of three or four inches long, and then score 
across in two or three places ; season them 
with pepper and salt,and dust them with flour, 
or dip them into an egg beat up, and sprinkle 
tliem with finely-grat^ bread crumbs; &y 
them in fresh lard or drij^ing. Let diem 
drain and dry apon the bock of a sieve be- 
fui-e the file. Garnish with parsley. Saiicr ; 



EEL 



69 



EGG 



^HBdtedbntler,aiidleftMi|iMfcfe. Ifimall, 
they aiay be curled aad friod wkiiiiii 

EEL PIE. Talsee^dboothalfapoand 
«ach ; cut tbnn inte pieoee three indm loofr, 
waflOD them with pepper and nah, aiid nil 
vour diirii. Add a fill Of water or veal 
broth, cover it with paste, rub it over with a 
paste-bnuh dipped in yolk <^egf , ornament 
it wiA some of the sane paste, bake it an 
hour; and when done, make a bole in the 
centre, and pour in the fuUowinf iauoe 
through a funnel: the trimniings boiled in 
half a pint of veal stodt, seasoned with pq>- 
per and sak, a table-spoonlul <^ leaxm-juioe, 
and thickened with flour and water, strained 
tlureugh a fine sieve: add it boiling bet. 

EEI^ POTTED. Bone ihem; eeasoa 
them weU upon both sides with pepper, sak, 
a little mace, and Jamaica pepper ; let than 
lie for six hours, then oat them into smaH 
pieces, and pack tfaem close into a dish$ 
cover "diem with a coarse paste ssid bake 
them. When quite cokl, taLe eff^ pnsle» 
and pour over them dartfied butter. 

EEL SOUP. See Seupe, 

££XS STEWED. (1) Cut the eels 
Into pieces about four inches loi^ ; take twe 
onions, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, 
ihyme, two bay leaves, a little mace, bladi 
and Jamaica p^per, a pint of good gravy, 
the same c^Pert wine, and the same cm vin- 
^ar, six anohovies, braised ; let all bml to- 
gether ibr tm minutes; take out the eels; 
ijoil the sauce till reduced to a quart; strain 
and thicken it with a table-spoonfiil of flour, 
mixed amoeth in a little cold water. Put 
in the eels, and boil them till they are ten- 
da:. -Eels may also be roasted with a com- 
mon stuffing. 

EELS STEWED. (2) Cut the eels 
into pieces, season well two pounds and a 
half with salt and black pepper, put an ounce 
of btrtta* into a stewpan with a large handful 
of sorrel, three or four sage leaves, half an 
onion eut small, a little graced lemon-peel, 
and one anchovy chapped; put in the eels 
and pour over half a pint of water, stew 
them gently for half an hour» shaking them 
occasional^; befoi^ serving, add a little 
grated mitmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. 

EELS SPrrCHCOCKED. This the 
French ocx^ts call the English way of di-ess- 
ing eels. Take two middling-sized silver 
eelb, scour them with s'ilt, slit them on the 
belly side, and take out the bones and wash 
and wipe them nicelty; then cut them into 
pieces about three inches long, and wipe 
them quite dry; put two ounces of butter 



into a etewpan with a little ttiaoed parsley 
thyme, sage, pepper, and salt, and a very 
little chopped eschak>t ; set the slewpan 
over the ore; when the butter is melted, 
stir the ingredients together, and take k off 
the fire, mix the yolks of two eggs with them, 
and dip the eel in, a piece at a time, and 
then roll them in faraad<cnmlbs, making as 
mnch stick to than as you can ; Chen mb 
the gridiron with a bit of suet, set it high 
over a vei^ clear fire, and liroil yoinr eels of 
a fine crisp brown. Dish tliein with crisp 
parslqf, and send up with plain butter in a 
Doat* and anchovy and butter. 

EGGS. (1) Eggs may be preserved for 
twdve BBonths, in a sweet and palatable state 
for eating in the shell, or using for salads, by 
boiling them for one roiirale; and when 
wanted for we let them be boiled in tlie 
«sual manner: the while may be a little 
tougher dian a new-laid ^|g, but the yolk 
will show BO difia^aoe. 

EGGS. (2) Poir a ||alkn of water 
over a pound of unslacked lime, stir it weQ ; 
the following day, poor off the clear water 
inio a jar, and fiat in die eggs as they are 
laid. In tiiis manner they wHl oootinw 
perfectly good for mx tnovths or aoore. 

There are so many difierent ways of 
dresnng eggs, thsU the recipes woukl aimoet 
fill a volome ; we have, therefims, given such 
as vre esteem the best, and the BiaBt adapted 
to the English taste. 

EGGS AND BACON RAGOUT. 

Boil half a dozen eggs for ten minutes; 
throw than into cold vrater; peel them and 
cut them into halves ; pound tlie volks in a 
marUe mortar, with about an equal quantity 
of the white meat of dressed fowl, or veal, a 
little chopped parsley, an anchovy, an escha- 
lot, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a table- 
spoonful of mushroom catchup, a little Cay- 
enne, some Inread-crumbs, and a very little 
beaten mace, or allspice ; incorporate them 
well tc^ther, and fill die halves of the 
whites with this mixture; do them ever 
with the yolk of an «gg, and Ix^wn tliem in 
a Dutdi oven, and serve them on relishing 
rashers of bacon or ham. 

EGGS AND BREAD. Put half a hand- 
fol of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a 
araall quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread has 
imbibed all the cream ; then break ten egge 
into it, and having beaten them up togedier, 
firy it like an omdet. 

EGGS AND CREAM. Boilhalfapiof 
of oream till reduced to half the qwintity ; 
then add eight eggs, season them witli sak 



EGG 



70 



EGG 



and pepper, boil them together, till the eggs 
are partly liard ; pass a salamander over die 
top, and serve. 

EGGS A LA TRIPE. Gut into Uiick 
round slices a down of hard-boiled eggp, 
and put them into the following sauce: cut 
three laree white onions into dice, €ry them 
white in butter, and when nearly done, dust 
them with flour, and moisten them with some 
milk and a few spoonfiib of cream; keep 
stirrinff with a wooden spoon, to prevent 
their burning. When the sauce is d(me, 
grate in a little nutm^, weaBon with a little 
salt and pepper, and pot in the ^gs. 

EGG BALLS. Boil four eggs for ten 
minutes, and put them into cold water ; when 
they are quite cold, put the yolks into a 
moitar with the yolk of a raw egg, a tea- 
spoonfid of flour, same of chopped parsley, 
OS much salt as will lie on a flndling, and a 
little black pqiper, or Cayenne; rub them 
well together, roll them into smaD balls (as 
th^ swell in boiling) ; boil them a 6otq>le 
of minutes. 

EGGS BOILED, to bat in the 
SHELL, OR FOB SALADS. The fresher 
laid the better: pot them into boiling wator ; 
if you like the white just set, alxNit two 
minutes boiling is enough; anew-laid effg 
will take a littfe man; if you wish the yolk 
to be set, it will take three, and to boil it 
hard for a salad, ten minutes. A new-laid 
egg will require boiling longer than a stale 
one, by half a minute. 

EGGS BOURGEOISE. Spread some 
butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it 
entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, 
on that lay thin slices of cheese, then eight 
or ten eg^, season them with salt, pepper 
and nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook 
gently till dcme. 

EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat and strain 
ten or twelve ega ; put a piece o( butter into 
a saucepan and keep turning it one way 
till melted ; put in the beaten eg^, and stir 
tliero round with a silver spoon till they be- 
come quite thick. Serve them in a dish 
upon buttered toast. They may be eaten 
with fish, fowl, or sausages. 

EGGS EN SURPRISE. Take a dozen 
eggs, and make a small hole at each end of 
every egg, through which pass a straw and 
break the yolk ; then blow out the yolk care- 
folly. Wash the shells, and having drained, 
dry them in the open air; mix tlw yolk of 
an egg with a little flour to close one of the 
holes of the shells, and when dry, fill half the 
number by means of a small fonnel, with 



chocolate cream, and the remaining six with 
cofiee or orange-cream ; close the other end 
of your eggs, and put them into a sauoeinn 
of hot water; set them on the fire, taking 
care they do not boil ; when done, i^emove 
tlie cement from the ends; dry, and serve 
tliem on a folded napkin. 

EGGS, FRIED. Eggs boiled hafd, cut 
into slices, and fried, may be served as a 
second course dish, to eat with roasted 
chickens. 

EGGS FRIED WITH BACON. liay 

some slices of fine streaked bacon (not nKNre 
than a quarter of an inch thick) in a clean 
dish, and toast diem befiNne the fire in a 
cheese-toaster, turning them when the iqiper 
side is browned; first ask those who are to 
eat the bacon, if they wbh it much or little 
done, t. e. curled and crisped, or mellow 
and soft : if the latter, parboil it firiA. Well- 
cleansed dripping, or brd, or fi^esh butlor,' 
are the best fots f<»- fi7ing eggs Be sure 
the frying-pan is quite deui ; when the fot 
is hot, break two or three em into it; do 
not turn them, but, while they are filing, 
keep pourine eome of the fot over diem wiUi 
a spoon ; when the yolk just begins to look 
white, which it wiU in about a couple of 
minutes, they are dxme enough; the white 
must not lose its trani^renc^, but the yolk 
be seen blushing dutiagh it: if they are 
done nicely, th^ will look as white and 
delicate as if the^ had been poached ; take 
them up with a tm slice, dram die fat from 
them, trim them nendy, and send them up 
with the bacon round them. ' 

EGGS FRIED, AND MINCXD HAM ' 
OR BACON. Choose some fine salt pork, 
streaked with a good deal of lean ; cut this 
into very thin slices, and afterward into 
small square pieces; dirow them into a 
Btewpan, and set it over a gentle fire, that 
they may lose some of their fat, Wlien as 
much as will finely come is thus melted from 
them, lay them on a warm dish. Put into 
a stewpan a ladle-foil of melted bacon or 
lard ; set it on a stove; put in about a donm 
of the small pieces of bacon, th^ stoop die 
stewpan and break in an egg. Manage diis 
carefolly, and the egg will fjresently be done: 
it will be very round, and the little dice, of 
bacon will stick to it afl over, so that it will 
make a very pretty appearance. Take care 
the yolks do not naxtlen; when tin egg is 
thus done, lay it carefully in a warm disli, 
and do the others. 



EGG FRITTERS. Pound a 
hard boiled eggs with a little cream, and a 
quarter of a pound of beef marrow ; dien 
pound half a doeen macarotNis, some bitter 



j 



XGG 



71 



ELD 



aJmands, a little mgar, and kmon-peel ; 
mix these with the pounded egg^, and Ibrm 
diem into firitten, dip them into a batter 
made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon- 
pee] ; firy them in rery hot lard, sprinkle su- 
gar over, and serve. 

EGGS FROTHED. Beat up the yolks 
of eight eggs and the whites of four (set 
aside the remaining whites) with a spoonful 
of water, some salt, sugar, and the juioe of a 
lemon ; fry this, and tlien put it on a dish ; 
whip tlie lour whites (which were set aside) 
to a froth with sugar, and place it over the 
fried eggs ; bake it in a Dutch oven, or with 
a hi^ cover fitted for the purpose. 

EGGS, GLASS. Butter a dish, and 
break into it a piece of butter nearly as laiige 
as an egg: add a tea-cupful of cream, and 
drop in four or five eggs; put upon each a 
littkt pepper and salt, set the dish upon a 
stove, and ser\'e it when the eggs are firm, 
which may be in ten or fifteen minutes. 

EGG MARMALADE. (1) Blanch and 
, pound with a little rose water, two ounces of 
sweet almonds, the same of orange marmalade, 
and four of citix>n ; add two spoonfuls of bran- 
dy , and when quite smooth, the beaten yolks of 
SIX and the whites of two eggs, with a little 
pounded loaf stigar ; put it into a saucepan, 
and stir it till it becomes thick, then pour it 
into a shape. When auite cold, serve it, 
turned out and garnished with flowers. 

EGG MAR3f ALADE. (2) Clarifrapound 
of sugar, keeping it rather thick ; when cool, 
add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which 
should be perfectly fi-ee fix>m the whites, and 
well stirred, but not beaten; set these on 
the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and 
tlien contii^jie to stir until sufficiently thick; 
if any scum should arise, it need not be taken 
off*, as the boiling and stirring will eflbctually 
remove it. Orange-flower water may be 
added, if approved. 

EGGS, TO POACH. The cook who 

^ wishes to display her skill in poaching, 

must endeavour to procure eggs that have 

been laid a couple of days — ^uiose that are 

quite new-laid are so milky that, take all 

the care you can, your cookmg of them will 

seldom procure you the praise of being a 

prime poacher; you must have firesh eggs, 

or it is equally impossible. The beauty of 

a poached ^g is for the yolk to be seen 

bhishing through the white, which should 

k only be just sufficiently hardened, to form a 

tran^Nurent veil for the esg. Have some 

boiliuff water in a tea-ketw ; pass as much 

I of it through a clean cloth as will half fill a 

I stewpan; Isreak the egg into a cup, and 



wbeo dw water boils, remove the stowpm 
firom the slove, and gently slip the egg mio 
it; it must stand till the white is set; thso 
put it over a very moderate fire, and as soon 
as the water boib, the egg is rnuiy ; take it 
up with a slice, and neatly round off the 
ragged edges <^the wiate; send them up on 
bread toarted od one side only, with or with- 
out butter; or without a toast, garaished 
with streaked bacon nicdy fried, or slices 
of broiled beef or mutton, anchovies, nvk 
sausages, or spinage. The bread should be 
a little larger than the egz, and about a 
quarter of an inch thick ; only just gi^'e it a 
yellow ookM*: if you toast it brown, it will 
^t a bitter flavour; or moisten it by pciur- 
ing a little hot water upon it: some sprukle 
it with a few drc^ of vinegar, or of essence 
of andmvy. 

EGrGS POACHED, with Sauce op 
MiHCED Ham. Poach the eggs as before 
directed,- and take two or three slices of 
boiled ham ; mince it fine with a gherkin, a 
morsel o( onion, a little paraley, and pepper 
and salt ; stew all togctner a quarter of an 
hour; serve up your sauce about half boiling; 
put the eg^ in a dish, squeeie over the juice 
of half a i^ville orange, or lenwn, and pour 
the sauce over them. 

E(3G PUNC9I. Take a punch-glass, 
and put into it a wineglass of sirup of piuKh 
(see that article), and the yolk of an egg; 
beat them together with a spoon, and then 
fill up the glass with boiling ii-ater, stirring 
a litUe as you pour it in. 

EGG TOAST. Put a glass of tliick 
cream, some sugar, two or thi-ee macaroons 
pounded, with a few almonds, a little grated 
lemon, give them a boil ; then add die yolks 
of eight and whites of tlu'ee e^, beat the 
whole up over a slow fire ; and lay on very 
thin slices of fried bread ; sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve. 

EGG WINE. Beat up an egg, mix wilh 
it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fii'e a 
glass of white wine, half a glass of water, 
sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a 
little of it to the egg by desrees, till the 
whole is in, stirring it well ; then return the 
whole into the saucepan, set it over a gentle 
fire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer, 
for if it boil, or the e^ is stale, it will curtUe ; 
serve with toast* You may make it as above, 
without warming the egg, and it will be 
lighter on the stomach, diough not so agree* 
aSe to .the palatb. 

ELDER FLOWER FRITTERS. 
Tlwy are made whilst the elder flowera ai« 
in uoom; sjnd th^ should marinate three 



KND 



72 



ESP 



«r finr haan iBfaraidyynigaryoniiipe-flowar 
water, and lemon-peel; when drained, dip 
Ifaem in a flood thick batter to fry, and serve 
with raapcd nigar, aa in general. 

ELDER ROB. Gather the elderfoerriee 
^heo ooite ripe, pot them into a itone jar, 
tie a bladdor or paper over the top, and 
place die jar in a pan of water ; let it boil 
till the heirieis are vefy ftoft; strain them 
through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of 
juice allow half a pound <Sf good brown su- 
gar; put it into a presenrii^-pan, stir it, and 
whnn it boils, take off the scum, and let it 
boil for one hour. 

ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- 
flowers when just blown, take away all the 
stalks, and when the flowers are about 
half dr^, put them into a jar, and fill the jar 
with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand 
in the sun for twenty days ; tlien draw it off, 
press the flowers, and having filtei«d the 
whole, bottle it; take care to keep the bot- 
tles closely corked. 

ELDERBERRIES. Qan be made to 
produce excellent wine, allowing to a ten- 
gallon cask forty pounds of frait, tbrty pounds 
of sugar, and a quarts of a pound of tartar. 
When elderberry wine is desired &r a warm 
cordial, it is made in tlie following manner: 
—Twenty-five pounds of fi*uit are to be boil- 
ed (or an hour, in eleven gallons of watei, 
and along wiUi it, tied in a piece of linen, 
one ounce of allspice,' and two of ginger ; 
forty pounds of sugar beins put into a tub, 
tlie boiling liquor is strained over it, pressing 
the fiiiit quite dry ; a quarter of a pound of 
crude tartar, or cream of tartar, is then 
added to the liquid. When it has stood two 
da}^ in the tub, it may be removed to the 
cask, treated, as for sweet wine, in tlie usual 
manner, and bottled in March following. 
Wlien to be drank, a portion of it is heat«l 
with some sugar, two or three cloves, and a 
little nutmeg. 

EMPOTAGE. Put into a hrge sauce- 
pan, three or four pounds of beef-steaks, a 
Knuckle of veal, and four old hens ; moisten 
tliis quantity of meat with two ladlesfiil of 
broth ; set it on a stove, and let it boil till 
properly reduced, taking care that none of 
the meat bums, which would make the 
en^Uige of too hig^ a color; fill up your 
aancepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, 
and onions; let all these inpredieots stand 
over the fire for three hours lud a half; then 
strain the whole through a silk sieve, that 
it may be perfectly clear. 

ENDIVE IN VELOUTE. Take off 
all the QiHer leaves of your endive, apd having 



opened the hearts, put them into cold water 
to wash them. In the meanwhile heat a 
kettle of water, pat in it a handful of salt, 
then throw in the «ndive ; keep it constantly 
under the water, to prevent their turning ^ 
black. As soon as the endive is tender, 
drain, and then put it into cold water, and 
when quite cold, drain it again ; press the 
water out with your hands ; then chop it 
small, and put it into a saucepan, with some 
butter, salt, and pepper, stir it well, and 
tlien add five spoonfuls of velotUe, the same 
of eonsoffifne; reduce it till pretty thick, and 
then put it in a difih, with firied bread round 
it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, 
in which case, put two spoonfuls of flour into 
it, and moisten it with cream. 

ENDIVE IN GRAVY OF VEAL. 

Wash and clean thoroughly ten or twelve 
heads of fine endive, take off the outer leaves, 
and blanch the heads in hot water ; throw 
them into cold water, and then squeeze them 
as dry as possible. Stew them in as much 
ffnivy as win cover them ; add a tca-spoon- 
nil of pounded sugar, and a little salt. Wlien 
perfectly tender, put in a little veloute sauce, 
and serve quite lurt. 



ENTREE. There is no word precisely 
equivalent to this in English. Any dish of 
butcher's meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed 
for die^irs^ coiu-se, is called an entree. 

ENTREMET. There is no word equiv- 
alent to this in English. AH dishes of veg- 
etables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lob- 
sters, and, in general, everything that appears 
in tlie second course, except the roast, is 
called an intremet, 

ESCHALOT WINE. Peel, mince, and 
pound in a mortar, three ounces of eschalots, 
and infuse diem in a pint of Shciry for ten 
days ; then pour off the clear liquor on three 
ounces more eschalots, and let the wine 
stand on them ten days longer. This is 
ratlier the most expensive, but infinitely 
the most elegant preparation of esclialot, 
and imparts die onion flavour to soups and 
sauces, for chops, steaks, or broiled meats, 
hashes, &c. more agreeably than any : 
it does not leave any unpleasant taste in 
the mouth, or to the breath; nor repeat, 
as almost all other preparations of garlic, 
onion, &c. do. N. B. — ^An ounce of scraped 
horseradish may be added to the above, and 
a little thin-cut lemoo-ped. 

ESPAGNOLE. Take an old fowl, and 
about fourteen pounds of 1^ or dioulder of 
veal; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, 
with very little water, into a large saucepan, 
with two carrots, three onions, a poona of 



riL 



73 



ris 



a few pemroonM* m lOMdl qnaotitj of 
_, and a oore of nriic; bc this ilew 
mr a moderate fire, fmkiog it freqnendj^ 
tiH it beoomes of a brown oolor, when yon 
may add to it a wfficient (|aantit||r of not 
water, to oome about Ibor inchet above the 
meat. Set it by the side of the etove to boil 
foitly, Aimminy when neoeaary, titt the 
meat oomee from the bones; then stnun it 
through a silk sieve, and let it by €»r uee. 

ESSENCE. Take half a bottle of whit* 
wine, half a ^am of the beet vinegar, the 
Juice oi two Temone, three ounces <^ sak, 
half an oonoe of whole pepper, a little nut- 
meg and mace, fiiur elovee, fijur bay-leaves, 
thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten 
riiallots, pounded, and an ounce of dry mush- 
rooms; put all these ingredients into an 
earthen pan, over a brisk fire ; when near 
boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand 
on hot ashes for six or seven hours; then 
atrain it through a onarse sieve, and after- 
wards filler it. Keqp it in closely corked 
bottles: a small quantity is sufficient to fla- 
vour a dish. 



P. 



FANCHONEITES. Put into a sauce- 
pan, two ounces of flour, three of sugar, one 
of buttfW, two oi pounded almonds, some 
green lemoo-peel, two yolks, and one whole 
egg, a little salt, and naif a pint of milk ; 
put these ingredients on the fire, and let them 
set like a cream ; line some tartlet-tins, 'or 
moulds, with puflf paste, fill them with the 
preparation ; place the moulct« on a tin, and 
Bake the fanehontUes in a brisk oven ; when 
about three parts done, take them out, put 
frothed ^igB on, sprinkle sugar over, and re- 
place them in the oven to finish the baking. 

FAWN, Like a sucking pig, riiould be 
dressed almost as soon as kilfed. When 
very young, it is trussed, stuffikl, and spit- 
ted the same way as a hare: but thev are 
betio' eating when of the siie of a nouse 
lamb, and are then roasted in quarten ; the 
hind-quarter is most esteemed. 

They must be put down to a very quick 
fire, and either basted all the time tney are 
roasting, or be covered with sheets of &t 
bacon; when done, baste it with butter, and 
dredge it with a little salt and flour, till 
you make a cice fix>th on it. 

N. B. — ^We advise our firiends to half 
roast a &wn as soon as they receive it, and 
then make a hash of it. 

Send up v^uson sauce with it. 



FILBERT ROLU3. 

7 



Having peeled 



half a poiwd os nuMrti, pnt 
preserving pan over a naodBrate fte, and 
stir them eonstaotly vrith a spatula tsntil 
they become equatty eokied ol a li^ yel- 
low: then set them to eool. Whc» ooU, 
pound them vrith a littie white of egg to a 
paste; then mix them with half a pound of 
flour, the same of powder sugar, and the 
yolks of four or flve eggs, and then finish 
the operation as directed for tUmomd rolit. 
Froth, and trace on the surfikoe an ear of 
wheat, or anything else, with the point of a 
knife: take care to <hy them well in the 
baking, that diey may be crisp. Coarse 
powder sugar may also be strevred over, be- 
fore th^ are put m the oven. 

FISH. fVeuueriaUiktbetiremarkB 
that varimu culinary author§ kaet mmic 
on Fish. 

There is a general rule in choosiiw 
most kinds of fish; if their gills are red, 
their eyes plump, and the whole fish stifle, 
they are good ; if, on the oontraiy, the gills 
are pale, the eyes sunk, and die fish flabby, 
they are stale. The neatest care should 
be taken that the fish is propo-ly cleansed 
before beins dressed, but not washed be- 
yond vi^iat IS absolutely necessary for clean- 
ing, as by perpetual watering, the flavour 
is diminished. When clean, if the fish is 
to be boiled, some sah, and a little vinegar 
should be put into the water, to give it 
firmness. Gore should be taken to n>U the 
fish well, but not to let it break« Cod, 
whiting, and haddock are much better for 
beine a little salted, and kept for a day. 

There is often a muddy smell and taste at- 
tached to fresh-water tub, which may be 
grit rid of by soaking it, after it has been ^ 
Uioroiighly cleaned in strong sait and wa- 
ter ; or, if the fish is not too large, scald it 
in the same ; then dry, and dress it. 

Care should be taken that the fish is put uito 
odd water, and alluwed to do very gently, 
otherwise the outside will break before tiie 
inside is done. 

Crimp fish must be put Into boiling viater; 
and as soon as it boils up, a little cold 
we^er should be put in, to check the exces- 
sive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. 

If the fish is not taken out of the water 
the instant it is done, it will beccMne wool- 
ly ; to ascertain when it is ready, the fish 
plate on which it is dressed may be drawn 
up, and if suflbsiently done, it will leave the 
bone. To keep hot for serving, and to 
prevent it trom losinff its color, the fish 
plate should be phcea crossways over the 
fish-kettle, and a dean cloth put over the fidi. 

Small fish may be either niceh fi>ied 
plain, or done over witli egg and bread 
crumbs, and then firied. Upon the dish on 
which the fish is to be served, shouU be 



FIS 



74 



FIS 




pheed a folded damaik napkioy and upon 
thii put the fish, with the liver and roe; 
then garnish the dish with horse-radish, 
parsley, and lemon. Fish is a disn which 
IS almost nK»ne attended to than any other. 

To fiy or hroil fish properly, after it 
is well cleaned and wanied, it should be 
in a nice soft clodi, and when 
;tfy dry, wetted with egg, and snrink- 
all over with vary fine br^ul crumbs ; it 
will look still better to be done over with 
egg and crumbs a seccHid time. Then hav- 
ing on the fire a thick4x}ttomed fiying-pan, 
with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot ; 
put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably 
quick till it is done, and of a nice brown 
yellow. If it is done before it has obtained 
a nice brown color, the pan should be drawn 
to the side of the fire, the fioah carefiiUy 
taken up, and placed either upon a sieve 
turned upwards, or on the under side of 
a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, 
and finish browning; if wanted particularly 
nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to 
receive the fish. Fish fi'ied in oil obtains a 
much finer color than when done in lard or 
dripping. Butter should never be used, as 
it gives a bad color. ''Ciamish your dish 
with a firinge of curled raw parsley, or with 
fried parsley. 

When fish is to be broiled, it must be 
seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean 
ffridiron ; which, when hot, should be rub- 
bed over with suet, to hinder the fish firom 
sticking. It should be broiled over a very 
clear fire, to prevent its tasting smoky, and 
great care nuist be taken not to scorch it. 

FISH. This department of the busi- 
ness of the kitchen requires considerable ex- 
perience, and depends more upon practice 
than any other. A very few moments, more 
or less, will thoroughly spoil fish; which, to 
be aaten in perfection, must never be put 
on the table till the soup is taken off. 

So many circumstances operate on this 
occasion, that it is almost impossible to 
write general rules. 

Tb^ are decidedly difierent opinions, 
whetha: fish should be put into cold, tepid, 
or boiling water. 

Fish must by no means be allovred to re- 
main in the water afler it is boiled; if 
tlierefore it should be ready before it can be 
lient to table, it must be dished, the cover 
put on, and a cloth put over it. Tiie dish 
IS then to be set across the fish-kettle. 

Fish should be firied over a clear quick 
fire ; and with dripping, or hog's lard in 
preference to butter. The pan should be 
deep ; and to ascertain that it is clean, a 
littn &t is first fi'ied in it, poured out, and 
the pan wiped with a clean cloth ; as much 
dripping or lord is then put in as wiU en- 



tirely cover the fish. When it is boiling 
hot, and begins to smoke, the fish is put in; 
if small, thqr may be turned in three or four 
minutes, by sticking in a fork near the head 
with one liand, and with the other 8upp<»t- 
ing the tail with a fish-^lioe. When they 
are done, th^ should be laid b^ore the 
fire upon an old soft towel, and turned now 
and toen till th^ are diy upon both sides; 
or they may be put upon a lai^ sieve, 
turned upwards, aind vmidi is kept for the 
puipoae, <Nr pot on the under side <ji a dish. 

The fire for broiling fish must be very 
clear, and the gridiron perfectW clean, 
which, when hot, should be rubbed with a 
bit of suet. The fish, while broiling* must 
be often turned. 

Several respectable fishmone^rs and ex- 
perienced cooks have assured the editor, 
that they are often in danger of losing their 
credit by fish too finesh, uid especiaUy tur- 
bot and cod, which, like meat, require a 
certain time before they are in the best con- 
dition to be dressed. Hiey recommend 
them to be put into cold water, salted in 
{UY>portion of about a quarter of a pound of 
salt to a gallon of water. Sea-water is 
best to boil sea-fish in. It not only saves the 
expense of salt, but the flavor is better. Let 
them boil slowly till done; the sign of which 
is, that the skm of the fish rises up, and 
the eyes turn white. 

It is the business of the fishmonsor to 
clean them, &c. but the carefid cocul will 
always wash them again. 

Garnish with slices of lemon, finely scrap- 
ed horseradish, firied oyetiaca, smelts, whit- 
inss or strips of soles. 

The liver, roe, and chitterlings should be 
placed so that the carver may observe them, 
and invite the guest to partake of them. 

Fiah, like meat, requires more cooking 
in cold than in warm weathor. If it be- 
comes FROZEN, it must be thawed by the 
means we have directed for meat. 

Fish are plenty and good, and in great 
variety, in all the towns and cities on the 
extensive coast of the United States.^ Some 
of the interior towns are also supplied with 
fish peculiar to the lakes and rivers of this 
country^ 

All kinds of fish are best sometime before^ 
they begin to spawn ; and are unfit for food 
for sometime uier they have spawned. 

Fish, like animals, are fittest for the ta- 
ble when tliey are just fiill grown ; and what 
has bean said respecting vegrtables, applies 
equally well to fish. 

The most convenient utensil to boil fish 
in, is a turbot-kettle. This should ^ be 
twenty-four inches long, twenty-two wide, 
and nine deep. It is an ^ccellent vessel to 
boil a ham in, &c. &c. 

N. B.— The liver of tlie fish pounded and 



FI8 



76 



FLK 



misced with butlary with a Htds kmoiiojuiee, 
&c. is an el^ant and inofleoaive rauu to 
fish. MushitMin nnoe extempore or the 
aoop of mock tnrtfe, wiD BalBe an mwAwt 
fiflh ■aace. 

For liquid!, yoa hate aMat grairy, leniQ»> 
juice, sirap of lemone, cawnoe of andwvy, 
the yariouB vegetaUa eMeoees, mmfaroooi 
dalchup, and the whites and yolks of egg/t, 
wines, and the e ss mce of spices. 



FISH, HXW METHOD OF DKBSSIHO. 

Takis any sort of fiih you think pn^ier, be- 
ii^ tecy careiiil that it is quite fioh; clean 
it tibormii^ly, diy, and season it to your 
taste; thn put it (witliout any moisture), 
into a pan, n^icfa mm be closely covered, 
with the exception oTa mall hoie, to allow 
of evaporation. Pat it into an oven as soon 
as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until 
the whole is so completdy dissolved, that 
the bones are not peraeptible. When cold, 
this makes a very transparent, arel]*^T<Hred 
jeUy. 

FISH OONSOMME. Tkke carp, tench, 
perch, eels, pike, and other freih-water &h 
of the same kind; clean them vrall, and cut 
them into pieces, as near of a stse as may 
be; lay diem in a stewpan, on a layer of 
sliced onions and carrots; as soon as th^ 
begin to sweat, put in a bit of butler, and 
leave them ibr a quarter of an hour; mois- 
ten them with fish broth, and let them boil 
geotfy for an hour; keep the pan closely 
covered; this willaflbrd a very nourishing 
broth. 

FISH KETCHUP. Tkke rather more 
than a pint of yinc^ar, three pints of red 
Port, two table-spoomuls of peppet, pound- 
ed very fine, meaty of riialbts and borse- 
radidi, the pecu of half a lemon, and two or 
three bay-leaves, and a pound of andioTies ; 
let the whole boil together until the ancho- 
vies are diMolved, men stnin, and when 
cold, put it into bottles. Two or three 
spoonfius are sufficioit for a pound of 
butter. 

FISH FORCEMEAT. Take two oun- 
ces of either turbot, sole, lobster, shrimps, 
or oysters ; free from skin, put it in a mor- 
tar with two ounces of fresh butter, one 
ounce of bread-crumbs, the yolk (^two eg^ 
boiled hard, and a litde. eschalot, grated 
lemon-peel, and pareW, minced very fine; 
then pound it weU till it is thoroughly mixed 
and quite smooth; season it wim salt and 
Cavenne to vour taste ; break in the yolk 
and white or (Mie egg, rob it well tt^tber, 
and it is ready for use. Oysters parboiled 
and minced fine, and an anchovy, may be 
added. 



FISHORAVT. (1) Qittwoortlma 
little fiih of any kind into small pieces; put 
them into a sanoepan, with rather more 
vrater than will cover them, a bit of touted 
bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, 
wfaols pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; 
let it sunmer gently till it is rich and good; 
brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, 
and whea it is browned, strain the gravy in- 
to it, and let it boil for a few minutes. 

FISH GRAVY. (2) Put some slices 
of onion into a stewpan, and set them on 
the fire; when they are completely diawlved, 
add a piece of boUer, and some small fish, 
or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other 
yon find convenieBt. As soon as they begin 
to disK>lve, and gire out their moisture, put 
a gbssfol of root broth to them, and boil 
them for half an hour; then add a gbua of 
while wine, and a little lemoo^uice, and 
boil it another half hour, when it may be 
presnd through a siere, with great force. 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (1) AAerpike, 
cod, skate, turbot, soles, or any odier white 
fiih has been dressed, pick it man the bones 
into small bits ; add |o a pound of fish, or 
in the same proportion, half a pint of good 
cream, one taUe-spoonfid of mustard, the 
saoie of anchovy esKsoe, the same of ketch- 
up, and (^Harvey saooe, a little flour, some 
salt, pepper, and nutter; make it all hot in 
the saucepan, then put it into the diah in 
which it IS to be senred up, strew crambs 
of bread over it, and baste it with butler till 
it is a little moist, then brown it with a 
salamander, or in a Dutch oven. A wall 
of mashed potatoes round the dish b an im- 
provemenL 

FISH RECHAUFFE. (2) Pick from 
the bone in large fiakes about two pounds 
of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles; melt a 
quarter of a pound of butler in half a pint of 
cream, with a little fiour and salt; add the 
fish and heat it thoroughly. 

FISH SAUCE. See Stmeee. 

FLEMISH WAFERS. Put into a 
deep pan half a pound of fiour; strain and 
mix with it half a pint of wanned milk, and 
two table-qxx>nfiils of firesh yeast; work tlie 
paste till it be soft and smooth, and pbce it 
m a stove, or close to the fire, to rise; then 
add the beaten volks of six eggs, half a 
pound of firesh butler beaten to a cream, 
and a lump of sugar which has been rubbed 
upon the peel of a lemon, and then poumtod ; 
Bst of all, beat in lightly the well-whisked 
incites of the egga ; a^in place the pan in 
a warm place, and it will rise to nearly 
double its bulk. Heat and rub the irons. 



FLU 



76 



FOR 



wfaieb dMNrid beaqm, with a little battar; 
fin one lide widi the mixtore, and ckiee 
them; whn one side is done turn the oth- 
er, «mI whea «f « fine oobr, taks out the 
waftre; |Mit theai upon m pkile» and whalat 
hot, mtt war due mmalkif a qaaiter of a 
pouad of grated loaf eagar. 

FLIP. To anka a qwut of fiip:— Pot 
the ale OB the five to wana» and beat up 
three or four ^ge, with four ounces of moist 
sugar, « tBB'apooiifid of grated aotawg or 

Kger, and a <i|aarteni of good oM rum or 
^ndy. When the ale aearly boils put it 
into one pitcher, and the nm, ^gge, &c in- 
to another; turn it from one to another till 
it ie as sHweih ae cream. Hue ie called a 
Vortfof ^Vomiil. 

mUTINO ISOJUfD. Boil, with a 
pint of milk, a bit of annadMiS and half the 
peel afa lemn; when almosi ooU,flirain it, 
and mix wMi it the beaten white eif one, and 
the yolks of three eggs; stir itonar the fire till 
thick, poar it ioto« dish, and adr it new 
and then tiU «oM. Whisk the wUtee ef 
two egge, and ludf n ^int ef Goava, qninoe, 
or red currant jetty, till it be a wy atiff. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. <1) Put«n a 
stew pa n with a airf&cient ^uantitf af wattr 
to cover the fioandeia wfaioh are to foe «bee- 
eed; put in eoase vinegar nad hopea-radish ; 
when (he wnter boils pot in tbe fish, having 
been fimt well clenned, and ibeir-finsaut off; 
tfiey naist not boa too frst fcr fitar 4hey ihaakl 
broik; when they are eufieientfy done, lay 
them OB a fish plate, the tails in the middle. 
Serve them with penley and batter. 

FLOUNDERS BOILED. (2} Wash and 
dean them weD, cut the black side of them 
the same ae von do turbot, then put them in- 
to a fi8h4Lettie, with plenty cff cold water 
and a bandfiil of sedt; vHien they come to a 
boil, fikim them clean, and let them stand 
by the side of the fire for five minutes, and 
tb^ are ready. Ob». — ^Eaten with plain 
melted butter and a little salt, you have the 
sweet delicate flavor of the flounder, which 
is overpoweied by ai^ sauce. 

FLOUNDERS on PLAICE, r risd or 
BOILED. Flounders are perhaps Ae moot 
difiicult fiidi to fi7 very nioely. Clean them 
well, flour thnn, and wipe them with a dry 
cloth toabstnii all the wattf firom them; 
flour or egg and bfead-orumb them. 

FLUMBfERY. Steep three large hand- 
fills of veiy small wl»te oatmeal a day and 
night in cold wator; then pour it off* clear; 
then add as much more water, and let it 
stand another day and a night. Then 



strain it thi aa gh a fiae hair aasve* and bai 
it tiH it is of the consieteaoe of hasty pod- 
dhig, keeping it weH stirred ail the time it 
is boiliag. When first tftrained, pot to it 
one large apoonfid of white sugar* and two 
of orangn»Dower water. Poor it into shal- 
low dishes, and asrvn to ant with arioa, d- 
der, milk or craam* and 



FLUMMERY DUTCH. BoU 

gently for half an hour, two ounces <^ Bsin- 
glass in dune half pints of wntsr; add a pint 
of white wine, €bd jnice of three Iranons and 
(in thin rind of one, and rub a few knnpe 
of sugar on anoAer to obtain the aaMnoe» 
and with them add as mudi more sngar ae 
will make it sufficiently s w ee t; and having 
beaten np the ydks of seven agga, givn theas 
and the abova, when minod, ana aoJd; stir 
all the time, imd ponr the whole into a ba- 
sin; atir ittmit ie hdf caU; then fet it 
aatde, and put it ante i 



FLUMMERY FRENCH. Beat an 
ounce of isinglass fine, pit it into a quart of 
oream, and boil it gani&ir 6r a <]oaiter of an 
hnnr, hewpg itntinriag all the tima> Than 
lakeA off» awo t i aa it with Am p ond e r an* 
gar, pat in a apoonfid of reee and mother 
ef oranae-Anser water, ^rain it tfafoogh a 
sieve, and atir it tiU half cakL Pvt it into 
h mouid or faasiii, nad when aoU, turn it in* 
to n dish, and ganiish with cunnnt jeUy. 



FONDUS. PataoBiBgnted 
a basiB, with pepper and n littleaooltBd bnU 
ter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them tage(ib> 
er ; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm 
froth, and add them, a little at a time, to 
the cheeee, staring lightly with m wooden 
spoon; half fill as many payer rnfws as yon 
can, and bake them, hke biaouitB, in « 
moderate oven. Serve them ae ^idUy aa 
poesiUe after they are doneu 

FORCEMEAT STUFFING. Faroe- 
meat is now considered an indispensabla 
accampamment to most made dishes, nnd 
when composed with sood taste, gives ad- ' 
ditional spirit and reliw to even that " sove- 
veien of savooriness,*' turtle mmp. 

It is also sent up an pattiee, and for stuf. 
&ag of veal, xame, poultry, &c. 

rbe ingradieBts should be so proportion- 
ed, that no one flavor prodooBonatee. 

To give the same etuffing for veal, ham, 
&c. aigues a poverty of invention; with n 
little contrivance, you may make as gieat 
a variety as you have dishes. 

The poiffntfncy of fo r c em eat should be 
proportioned to the savourinem of the viaadu, 
to which it is intended to give an additional 
vest. Some dishes require a very delicate- 
ly flavored forcemeat, for others, it 



POR 



77 



POW 



be fiitl and high ■eMoned. What would be 
piquante in a turkey, would be ioiipid with 
turtle. 

Most peo|)le have an acquired and pecu* 
liar taste in atu£BngS) 8cc* wnd wliat esacdy 
pleases one, seldom is pMcisely what an- 
other considers the most agreeable. 

Custom is afl in matters of taste: it is not 
that one person is naturally fond of this or 
that, and another naturally avem to it; but 
that one is used to it, and another is not. 

The consistency of forcemeats' is rather a 
difficult thing to manage ; they are almost 
always either too light or too heavv. 

Take care to pound it till perfect^ smooth, 
usd that all the ingredients are thoroughh^ 
incorporated. 

Forcemeat-balls must not be larger diaa 
ft small nutro^. If they are for brown 
sauce, flour and fiy them; if for white, put 
them into boiling water, and boil them for 
three minutes: tlw latter are by for the most 
delicate. 

If not of sufficient stiffiiess, it foils to 
pieces, and makes soup, &c. grouty and 
▼ery unsi^ly. 

Sweetbreads and tongues are the fovorite 
materials for forcemeat. Forcemeat should 
be made sufficiently ccxisistent to cut with a 
knife, but not dry or heavy. No one ilaTor 
lAiould predominate greatly; according to 
what it ts wanted for, a selection may be 
made from tiie-folkiwing fist, being curdiil 
to use the least of those articles ^ich are 
the most pungent: 

Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fot ba- 
con, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, 
white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks ana whites 
of&tgs, well beaten, to bmd the mixture. 

The foix»nieat may be made with any 
of these articles without any striking flavor; 
therefore any of the following different ingre- 
dients may be made use of to vary the taste. 

O^'sters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, pen- 
ny-royal, knotted-marjoram, thyme, basil, 
yolks of hard eggs, cayenne, garlic, dtiallots, 
chives, Jamaica pepper in fine powder, w 
two or three cloves. 

To force or slud" turkeys, geese, docks, 
&c., see under the heads of the different 
ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. 

FORCEMEAT. Take an equal quantity 
of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred ; 
beat them in a maii>ie mortar ; add pepper, 
salt, cloves, pounded lemon- peel, and nutmes 
grated,- parsley and svi'eet heibs, chopped 
hne, a little sbiallot and young onion, a< few 
brtHid-crDmbs grated fine, and yolk of egg 
sufficient to work it li^ht; roll this into 
balls with a little flour; if for white sauce, 
boil thdiU; if for brown sauce, fry them. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH 

7* 



Soups, om Fmh stbwsd. Beat th« 
flesh and soft parts of a middling siaed lob> 
sler, half an anchovy, a large piece ci boil- 
ed celery, the yolk of a hard e|^, a little 
Osyenne, maoe, salt, fluid white pepper, 
with two taUoH^ioonfols of braad-crambsy 
<Mie spoonful of oyster liquor, two oonoes of 
butler warmed, two eggs beaten for a long 
time ; make into balls, and fiy them of a 
nice brown ooIcnt in butter. 

FORCEMEAT-BALLS fokTvbtle, 
Mock Turtle, or Maok Dishes. 
Pound some veal in a marble mortar; rub 
it throcnh a sieve with as much of the udder 
as you have veal, or about a third of the 
quantity of butter: put some bread'crumbs 
into a siewpoui, moisten them with milk, 
add a little chopped parsley and eschalot, 
rub them well together in a nHMrtar till they 
form a smooth paste ; put it through a sieve, 
and, when cold, pound, and mix all togeth- 
er, with the yolks of three eggs boiled Inird ; 
season it with salt, pepper, and curry pow- 
der, or Cayenne ; aad to it the yolks of two 
raw eggs ; rub it well together, and make 
small mils: ten minutes l^fore your wonp m 
ready, put them in. 

FOWLS. When a cock is young, his 
spurs are short ; take care that you are not 
dsoeived by their having been cut cnt pared, 
a trick that is often practised. If fresh 
their vent will be dose and dark. Hens 
are best, just before th^ begin to la^, and 
yet are foil (^ egg; if tb^ aure okl, their 
combe and legs are rough. 

All poukry should be very carefully pick- 
ed, every plug remotved, ana the hair nicaly 
singed with paper. 

The cook should be carefol in drawing 
poultiT of all sorts, not to break die ^\\- 
bag, for no washing will take off (be bitter 
wImhtc it has touched. 

If for roasting, black-legged fowls are 
the most moist.' A good-sized fowl, will 
take from, three^uarters of an hoar to an 
hour in ftMurting, a middling-siced one khoat 
half an honr, and a vei^y small one, <Mr chick- 
en, twenty minutes. 

Tame ibwb require more roasting, add 
are longer in heating throusfa than otherto. 
All sorts should be continuaHy basted,- that 
they may be si^rved with a €n^, and appear 
of a fine cok>r. The fire must be very.qnick 
and clear before any fowls are put down. 
Serve with iegg saace,^ bread iauee/ o^ ^gar- 
nished with samages or scalded piunle||y. ' 

A laiwe bttv^oor fowl, weU hun^t shoidd 
be stuflted in the crop with sausage-meat, 
and ser^ with gravy in thcf disUy-aad with 
bread saube. ' 

The head should b« turned undeiaAe 
wing, like a turkey. 



FOW 



178 



row 



For 'boiliag, ehoote those dmt an aot 
mack hggm i-; {>ick them carafiiily, einge, 
wash, mad tnm them. Fiour tbem, and 
put than in hoating water; a gcxMl-eixed 
one will be done in half an hoar. 

Svne widi pandey and batter; c^nrter, 
knnn, tiver, or oefery flanoe. ' If for dmner, 
bam, tongue, or baeon, is conmionly served 
with tbem« 

Fowls are trussed in the same manner as 
chickens. (See ChiekenB), 

Chickens or fowls shoukl be killed at 
least (me or two days before they are to -be 
dressed. 

Turkeys (especialW large ones) shoidd 
not be dressed till they Imve bera killed 
three or four days at kast, in cold weather 
six or eight, or they will neither look white 
nor eat t«ider. 

Turkeys, and lai^ge fowls, should have 
the strings or sinews of the thighs drawn 
out. 

Truss them with the legs outward, they 
are nmcfa easier carved. 

FOWL A LA HOLANDAISE. Make 
a fiNPoemeat pf grated bread, half its quantity 
of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, 
and Bome,boilcMi parsley, season with pepper, 
salt, and gratea lenKm^fieel, and an ^^ 
beaten op to bind it. Bone the breast of a 
good-fliaed young fowl, put in tiie forcemeat, 
cover the fowl virith a piece of white paper 
buttered, and roast it rather more tlian faaif 
an hour ; have ready a thick batter made of 
flour, milk, and egss, take off the paper, and 
pour some of the batter over the fowl; as 
soon as it becranes dry add more, and do 
diis till it is all cnisted over, and of a nice 
brown cobr ; serve it with melted butter and 
lemon pickks, or a thickened brown gravy. 

FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew 
a fowl in some well-wkimmed clear mutton 
broth, and seasoned with onion, maoe, pep- 
per, uid salt. About half an hour before it 
IS ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice 
vreU washed and aoaked. Siouner till ten- 
der; then strain it from the broth, and put 
the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the 
fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and 
tfie rice round it without the broth. The 
less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. 
Serve with gravy, or parsl^ and butter for 



FOWL BROILED. Split diem down 
the back, well salt and pq>per them ; then 
nroil them. Serve with muslvoom sauce. 

FOWL GAPILOTADE. Take the r^ 
mains of a ready drpssed fowl, aad put 
diem into a slewpRn; then xlo up some 
parsley, .«h«!1'>tJ^, anH fnar Tn»i«hrw)»ns, all 



shred enaU, in a little birtter; at Man aa the 
latter becomes liquid, add four ladlefolsef 
eapetgnole, and two of consomme, reduce, 
and skim it ; poor it on yoor fowl, set it on 
the fire to simmer for a qoarter of an hoiiTf 
befiH« you send k to table. 

FOWL CURRY. See Curry. 

FOWI^ DRESSED TO DRESS 
▲GAIN. Cot them in quarters) beat up an 
egg or two (aooording to the quantity you 
d^en) with a little grwted nubaeg, and pep- 
per and salt, some parsley minced fine, and 
a few crumbs oi bread; mix these well to^ 
geriier, aad cover the fowl, &c. with this 
batter; broil them, or put them in a Dutch 
oven, or have ready some dripping hot in a 
pan, m which firy them a light far^n color ; 
thicken a little gravy with some fiour, put 
a large spoonfiil of catchup to it, lay the 
iW in a <Ush, and pour .the sauce round it. 
You may garnish with slices of lemon and 
toasted farMid. 

ICJ^ Turkey, Goose, JDuek, Rabbii, 
Pigeon, are all dressed same way. 

FOWL, GAME, OR RABBIT bash- 
ED. Cut them into joints, put the trim- 
miivis into a etewpan with a quart of 
the'broth thev were ooiled in» and a 1m^ 
onioo cut in four; let it boil half an hour . 
strain it tlirougfa a sieve: then put two table- 
spoonfols of nour in a basin, and mix it 
well by degrees with the hot broth ; set it 
on the fire to boil up, then strain it throqg^ a 
fine sieve : wadi out the stewpan, lay the poul- 
try in it, and pour the gravy on it (through 
a sieve); set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer very genUy (it must not boil) for 
fifteoD minutes; five minutes before you 
jerve it up, cut the stuffing in slices, and 
put it in to warm, then take it out, and lay 
It round the e4ge of the dish, and put die 
poultry in the middle; carefiilly skim the 
fot off the gravy, then shake it round well 
in the stewpan, and pour it to the hash. 
N. B.^You may garnish the dish with bread 
sippets lightly toasted. 

FOWL HASHED. Cut a cok) roosted 
fowl into pieces as for a fricassee, put the 
trimmiogs mto a saucepan with two or throe 
shallots, a Intle lemon-ped, a blade of mace, 
a quarto* of a pound of lean ham, and a pint 
of Btoek ; simmer it for half an hour, strain 
it, put a bit of butter into a saucqpan, and 
when, melted, dredge in as much flour as will 
dry it up, stirring it all the time; then add 
the gravy,. let it ho'il a minutej and put in the 
fowl, also a little popper, salt, and a dust of 
sugar. Before serving, srioeeze in a little 
lemon-juice. 



row 



79 



FRA 



FOWL BUNGED WITH VEAL, 
llinoe the white part of a oold roasted or 
boiiecl iowl; put it, and aome thio alioet oi 
veal, inCo a aaiioqiaa, aleo aotne white itook, 
a aqoeew of a leaxm, a few drape' of ■haUoi 
▼in^par, and a duet ofeogar; eimmer it for 
a ebort time, and nenre it upon bread sippets, 
with the sKces of veal laid oo the minoe. 

FOWL PULLED. Skin a cold chick- 
en, fowl, or turkey ; take off the fillets iironi 
the breaista, and put them into a stewpan 
with the vest of the white meat and win^, 
side-bones, and merry-thought, with a |Mot 
of broth, a brge bbde of maoe pounded, an 
eschalot minced fine, the juice of half a lem- 
on, and a mil of the peel, swae salt, aud a 
few grains of caveaoe ; tbickm it with fiour 
and butter, and let it simmer for two <m* 
three minutes, till the meat is warm. In the 
meantime score the eggs and rump, powder 
them with pepper and salt, broil them nicely 
bn>Mm, ana by them on, or round vour polled 
diicken. "nuiee table-spoonfiju of ffnod 
cream, or the yolks c^as many eggs, wm be 
a great improvement to it. 

FOWL OR RABBIT. We can only 
recommend diis method of dressing when the 
fire is not good enough for roasting. Pick 
and truai it the same as for boiliujg, cut it 
open down the back, wipe the insme dean 
widi a cloth, season it with a little pep^ 
and salt, have a clear &e, and set the grid- 
iron att a good distance over it, lay the 
chicken on with the inside towards the fire 
(you may egg it and strew some grated 
bread over it), and broil it till it is a fine 
brown: take care the fleshy side is not burn- 
ed. Lay it on a hot disfi; pickled mush- 
rooms, or mushroom sauce thrown over it, 
or paraley and butter, or meked butter fla- 
vonsd with muslmxMn ketchup. Garnish it 
with slices of lemon; and the liver and giz- 
zard slit and notched, seasoned with pspper 
and salt, and broiled nicely brown, with 
some slices a( lemon. 

FOWLS WITH RICE, CALLED 
PiLLACJB. Boil a pmt of rice in as much 
water as will cover it, with black pepper, a 
few blades of maoe, and half a dozen cloves, 
tied iqp in a bit of cloth ; when the rice is 
tender, take out the spice ; stir in a piece 
of bottor ; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon ; 
lay them in the dish, cover them with the 
rice: lay round the dish, and upon the rice, 
hard eggs, cut in hahes, quartans, and 
Imgthways, with onions, fint boiled, and 
Uienfiried. 

FOWLS ROASTED. Well pepper 
wmI salt the fowls before you spit thwa; 
nmat them before a clear fire ; froth them 



wp when neariy done, by ninkUng ll^ni 
over with flour and salt^ aua basting them 
with butter. When done, be carefid m tak- 
ing oat the skewem. Serve them with veiy 
good dear gravy in the dish, and bread or 
egg sauce in a boat. 

FOWL ROASTED WITH CHEST- 
NUTS. Roast some chestnuts very care- 
fiiUy, so that they may not be burnt, then 
lake off the skins, and peel them. Take 
about a dozen of them, cut them small,' and 
bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the liver 
of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter 
of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. 
Then mix them all together, with a good 
quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, 
some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When 
tliese are are all well mixed t^ether, put it 
into ^our fowl, and roast it. The best way 
of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it 
' up by the legs to roast, with a string, and 
tlien baste it with butter. For sauce, take 
the res( of the chestnuts, peel and skin them, 
put them- into some good ^vy, with a little 
white wine ; and thicken it with a piece of 
butter rolled in flour. Then place your fowl 
in the dish ; pour in the sauce ; garnish with 
lemon, and serve. 

FOWL WITH rrs OWN GRAVY. 
Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it 
quite through with bacon, ham, and pars- 
ley ; put it in a pan with a little butter, two 
or three slices oi peeled lemon, a bundle of 
sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, 
carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a 
glass of white wine; stew them gently till 
thev are done ; skim and strain Uie sauce, 
and serve it with the fowl. 

FOWL, WILD. The flavor of wild 
fowl is preserved better ^r not stuflSng them ; 
put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of but- 
ter. Wild fowl do not require so much 
dressing as tame ; they riiould be done of a 
fine color, and nicely frothed. A rich brown 
gravy should be senred in the dish, and when 
the breast vb cut into slices, heSotre it is taken 
from the bone, it will be much improved by 
a squeeze of lemon, some salt and pepper. 
If you wish to take off the fishy smdl which 
tbrae birds fi:equently have, put an onion, 
salt, and hot water into the dripping pan, 
and for the first ten minutes baste them with 
this ; then remove the pan, and keep con- 
stantly basting with batter. 

FRAISE. SeeCalfaChUerlmgt, 

FRANGIPANE. Take a saooepaa, aql 
put into it five spoonfuls of floor, five 4gK8» a 
pint of jnilk, an ounce of biittw and a Tittle 
salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantjj 



rA£ 



80 



FRl 



ttbtil it has boiled ten minutes, taking great 
care tluit it does not burn \ tlien poor it into 
a basin, and let it cool. Take a few al- 
monds, (to evenr six sweet put one bittnr), 
bruise diem, and some macaroons, and when 
reduced to powder, mix them with a little 
crisped orange-flour (also in powder), and a 
sufficient quantity of powder^ugar to sweeten 
it: add these to the above |Nreparation, and 
stir them in well with a woDden spoon. If 
your fi^an^pane be too thick, add another 
egg or two, and then make whatever use of 
it you may desire. You may, if you think 
proper, substitute pistachios for the sweet 
almonds, in which case a little spinach es- 
sence must be added to color it, the -maca- 
roons and orange-flowers mnitted, and three 
bitter almonds only used. 

FRENCH BEANS. Cut ofi* the stalk 
end first, and then turn to the point and 
strip ofi* the strings. If not quite fresh, have 
a bowl of spring-wat^, with a little salt 
dissolved in it, standing before you,*and as 
the beans are cleaned and stringed, throw 
them in. When all ai'e done, pot them on 
the fire in boiling water, with, some salt in 
it; after they have boiled fifteen or twen^ 
minutes, take one out and taste it ; as soon 
as they are tender take them up; throw 
jthem into a colander or sieve to drain. To 
send up the beans whole is much the best 
method when they are thus young, and their 
delicate flavor and color are much better 
preserved. When a little more grown, they 
must be cut across in two after stringing; 
and for common tables they are split, and 
divided across ; cut them all the same length ; 
but those who are nice never have tliem at 
such a grovirth as to require splitting. When 
they are very large they look pretty cut into 
lozenges. 

FRENCH BEANS, NASTURTIUMS, 

&c. When young, and most other small 
green vegetables, may be pickled the same 
way as gherkins. 

FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER 
USE. Gather them when young, and on a 
dry day, put a layer of salt into a jar, and 
then one of about two inches thick of b^ns; 
do this till the jar be nearly fiill; place a 
small plate upon the top of them, and tie a 
bladder closely over tlK jar; keep it in. a 
cool dry place. When to be used, soak 
them a night in cold water, and change it 
on them repeatedly in the course of the day 
they are to be drrased. Cut them, and put 
theo^ on ip boiling ^ter. 

.. F51ENCH BEANS TO DRESS 
DRIED. Boil for more than two hours, in 
two quarts of w?iter, a pound of the seeds or 



beans of scarlet nnmers; fill a pint b^sin 
with cmions peeled or sliced, brown them iit 
a saucqum, with rather more than a quar<» 
ter erf* a pound of firesh butter; stirthemoon* 
stantly; strain the water finam the beans, 
and mix than with the onions; add a tea* 
spoonfiil of pepper, some salt, and a little 
gravy. Let them stew iar ten minutes, and 
stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a 
table-spoonfiil of vinegar. Serve tboin hot. 

FRENCH SUPPER DISH. Pare ofiT 
the crust, and cut one w two slices of bread 
into bits of two or three inches square; fiy 
diem in butter; put them upon a hot dish, 
and lay upon each bit some warmed presa've, 
or stew for a few minutes, in sweet wine 
and a little sugar, some stoned bloom raisins, 
and pot them npon and round the toast. 
The preserves may be heated Yjy (dacing the 
jars m hot water by the side of the fire. 

FRIARS' CHICKEN. Put four pounds 
of a knuckle of veal into four quarts of wa- 
ter ; boil it gently for two hours ; strain it 
off; cut three chickens,, or two young fowls 
into joints ; skin them, and when the broth 
boils put them in ; season with white pepper 
and salt; let thc»n boil a short time, and 
add a handfiil of pai'sley chopped small; 
when the chickens are boiled tender, have 
ready six or seven well-beatoi eggs; stir 
tiiem quickly into the broth one vray, imme- 
diately before taking it off the fire. This 
brodi ipiay be made entirely of veal instead 
of chick^s. 

FRICANDELLANS. Mince about two 
pounds of tender lean beef, and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of fi'esh suet, then pound it 
till it be as smooth as a paste, and carefiilly 
pick out all the threads and sinews ; add four' 
well-beaten ^gs, half a pint of rich cream, 
and as much grated and siAed bread as will 
make it sufiiciently consistent to form into 
rolls resembling corks, and season it with 
salt, and pepper. Boil die corks in some 
goodYrtock, or in boiling water. 

FRICASSEE BROWN. Take two or 
diree younjB[ rabbits, cut them in pieces, and 
stew them m gravy made of beef, some whole 
pepper, two shallots, one or two anchovies, 
a bit of hcM'se-radish, and a little swdet mar- 
joram powdered small. Stew the rabbits 
about a quarter of an hour, then take than 
out of the gravy, strahi the liquor, firy your 
raU[)its. in lard or butter; add a glass of 
claret; you ma^ fry some forcemeat balls, 
made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled^ 
and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg 
grated, pepier, rait, a few bread cninfos, 
and two Wtered eggs ; mix tiiese all to* 
gcfher, make them up into balls, dip th«aa 



FRl 



81 



FRI 



m ikm ^fc «f «gf , mB iIm» fa 

then fry them, and ganiiah voor dfaik with 

diem, with fried pararjr, and sliced lemoo. 

nUCASSEE WHITE. Ont a eonplt 
of ffdUMto fala piMw, and lot tham aeak ia 
fMovi «Mler to elMUMe tham frvm the blood; 
then lay them in a ckMh to dry; poft tfiem 
into a stewpan with milk and water, and let 
mr tifl they are tender, and then take 
pan, aad pat into it half « pim of 
and a qaarler of a poond of nutter; 
■tirlheat wol tdfether till the hotter bmek- 
ad; beeaMlUtokoapkeonBtantlyftirrin;, 
<Mr it win begi«Hy; pot in theri£bite,take 
a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, 
aad • fcir ^iiifcriiome; ehakc them together 
fcr a Aw miamm, and dien pat it to the 
nUwts. Yoa May add white wfae if ytm 



FBIED TOA9T8. Oit the «nnub of 

atwopaan^ |iaf fato round or oblong jHeoea, 
■nrly an wdi tfaiek, and aoak thea^ lor foor 
or 6m hoars in a pint of •ream, mixed with 
Ihaee i ia U > h aatea osgs, half a piot'^of white 
vine, a iittbcraitediiatong, and sweetened 
with Muaded loaf oagar. Fm thoa ia but* 
ter, ui af a ttg^ momu tfo&r, aad 
addi wiae aad sofar 



FRITTERS. (1) Make them of any of 
^hattwrstKrected for paaoakss, by dropping 
a eamll ^aaatity into (ho pan, or make the 
piaiaer sort, aad pat pased apples oKeed and 
eorad in tha batter, and fiy BOOM of it with 
•Casraats «r eliesd 1bb»b, as 
are iwy aioe. 



FRITTEES. <2) FriHersshoaUbesent 
to table served aptm a folded oapkia ia the 
didi. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, 
may be noado into frittere. 

FRITTERS, ENOLISH.AND. 
FEENCH. Take a anrrow podding, and 
whea oeariy oold, cut it into thin slices, and 
then oat diem again into pieces two iDcfaes 
ieag, by tbreoKpiarterB of an iodi wide, dip 
them into batter, aad fry ^em ia the usual 
manner; when drained, glaze them with fine 
sugar, and serve them very hot. The baXter 
far ^ above fritters is made as follows:— 
Put a glass and a half of water, a grain of 
sak, and two opfloes of fi'esh butter into a 
gaarepan; when it boils stir in a sufficient 
quantity of dour to make it a rather firm 
batter, keep it stirring three minutes, thfon 
poor it kqto aaother vessd. 

FRITTERS A LA DAUPHINE. 
Take a poond of Mache paste, and roU it 
oA as thin as possible, to the form of a long 
square; on part of this lay small quantities 



of apricot mannalade at inlervab, slightly 
wet the paste roiaid each |Meoe of p r tsei f e , 
and lay over the plaia pait of the paste so as 
to cover the odier compleldy, jnvm it down 
Ugfatly diat die marmalade may not escape 
in die cooking, aad cat out your fritters 
widi a circular paste^cotter of two inches in 
diameter; dour them a little, and then lay 
them in rather a hot fiiture, when die paste 
win sweO them into little faaDs; as soon as 
they are of a pttiper color take them out, 
dnon them on a napkin, sprinkle them with 
fine sugar, and serve them. 

FRITTERS A LA CXXTE. Soak fa 
braac^ some leaves and die young and ten- 
der sMoto of the vine, dip tliem in a batter 
made of milk, yolks of ens, and floor, fry 
them in boiling ofl, ^srinkte diem with su- 
gar. Elder ffowen are made into fritters in 
me same manner. 

FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix to- 
gether a haadfrd of rice-dour and some mine, 
set theoi on the fire, stirring coostendy, add 
a little cream, Mffur^ lemon-peel, and orange- 
flowers; whea it has become of a proper 
eonsastenee, take it firom the fire; as sooe 
as it is cold, roU it into baHs dbout die aiae 
of a nut, dip them in biUter and fry them* 

FRITTERS BLONDIN. Put some 
buttor into a saucepan, and when it is melt- 
ed add to it a g^bss of milk, and a pinch of 
sak, ketp it on the fire till it boils; then 
mix in a snficient quantity of floor to make 
it into a oonsisteBt paste, vrfaich wiH not 
stidL to the fingers; spr»d it cm a table, 
roll it out to the thidLness you may require, 
out it ia round, oval, or any odier formed 
pieces you may thiidi proper, and fry them of 
a nice color, la the best oil; sprinkle sugar 
over, and serve them. 

FRITTERS, FRENCai, OF BRAN- 
DY FRUITS. Take a dozen apricots 
(or odier fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, 
and cut than in half: dien wrap them in wa- 
fers cut round and previously moistened, dip 
them ia the same kmd of batter as that usea 
for fritters EngHsh-and-Freneh, and fry 
diem ; sprinkle diem with sugar, and serve. 

FRTTTERS EN SURPRISE. Take 
eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave 
on the stalks; cot off about a fowth part of 
the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out 
the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of 
cup with a lid ; put them to soak fix* two hours 
in a glass of brandy with a little lemon-ped 
and cinnamon ; at the aid of that time take 
them out, drain, and fiH each apple with 
apricot marmalaide, or frangipane; mix up 
a little flour and white of egg to cement the 



FRO 



82 



FRU 



tops of die appks to the other parte; dip 
tbem in batter and £7 them. When they 
are of a proper color, ghoe and eerve thraou 

FRITTERS MIGNON. Put two good 
qpooi^Cule of flour into a etewpan, and mix 
it with the whites and volks of two eggB, a 
little eadt, two ouqicee of sugar, eome lemen- 
peel grated, half 9, teaHipocmfol o( milk, and 
half a tea-spotmfiil erf* cream ; stir it over a 
slow fire, and, when done and well thicken- 
ed, spread the cream upon a floured dish, 
shake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it 
into bits with a paste-c-utter, dip each bit 
into a paste made with two qiooofiils of 
flour, a spoonflil <^ brandy, and a little salt, 
mixed with two egga; try the fiiitters, and 
serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. 

FRITTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart of 
new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it 
begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine ; 
then take it OB, and let it stand five or six 
minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a 
basin; beat it up well with six eggs, and 
season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a 
whLedL, and add flour sufficient to give it the 
proper consistence of batter. Put in some 
sugar and fry them quick* 

FRITTERS, SOUFFLES. Make 
KMne flour and beer into a batter fliat will 
flow a little; take a little of it out with a 
spoon, throw it into a firying-pan with boil- 
ing oil; the moment it rises, take it out, 
and proceed in the same way till aU the bat- 
ter IS used; then sprinkle them with salt, 
and serve. 

FROMAGE CUIT. Cut half a pound 
of Cheshire cheese into thin bits, and pound 
it in a mortar; add by degrees the well- 
beaten yolks of two, and the white of one 
egg, and half a pint of cream; mix it well 
together and bake it for ten or fifteen min- 
utes. 

FROST OR ICING FOR CAKES-. 
Beat till very luiit the whites of four eggs, 
and add graduafly three-quarters of a pound 
olr double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted 
through a lawm sieve; mix in the juice of 
half a lemon; beat it till very li£[ht and 
white ; place the cake before the we, pour 
over it the icinf, and smooth over, the top 
and sides with the back of a spocm. 

FROTH TO PUT OH Cream, Cus- 
tard, OR Trifle. Sweeten half a pound 
of the puh) o( damsons, or any other sort oi 
scalded fruit ;''pot to it the whites of four 
em beaten, and beat the pulp with them 
tufit will stand as high as you wish, and 
being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon. 



it win take any farm; it ahooid be voqgh* 
to imitate a rode. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (1) Itmnrtfirstbe 
preserved, then dipped in warm water, dried 
with a cloth, and strewed 'all pver with sift- 
ed sugar, and dried in a stove or oveo, tun- 
ing as occasion requires. 

FRUIT, CANDIED. (2) When, die 
firnit is preserved, dry it in a stove .till' the 
sirup is f|uite out, dip it into siiup boiled to 
c^My hei^t, and d^ it again. AU dried 
and candied fivit must be kept jp a veiy 
diy place. 



FRUrriN JELLY. Haveinreadii 
a plain mould, eidier long or round, about 
three inches deep; then have readv sMBe 
mould jelly, and spread it at die iMttbin 
of the mould, about a quarter of an inch 
thick; let it be cold; then put in ripe peach- 
es, gr^ies, or* any sort of rme finit yoa 
please, preserved finut, or Cnina oranges 
cut into quarters, or wliatever shape yoa 
choose; put in a tittle warm Jelly, aikl let it 
stand till it is cold, to fiisten the firoit inifis 
place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the 
mould vp with warm jeUy, let it stand till it 
is quifie cold, then turn it into a dish, and 
garnish it according to your own taste. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, REMARKS 
ON usiHG. Pkeserved firuits shoukl not be 
bdked long; those that have been preserved 
with their fiill proportion of susar, require 
no baking; the crust should be naked in a 
tin diape, and the firuit be afterwards added ; 
or it may be put into a small dish w tart- 
pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut 
out according to your taste. 

FRUIT, TO PREPARE FOR BrAHDT. 

Take the proposed quantity of finit, gather- 
ed before thev are pofoctly ripe ; diy them 
carefuUv, prick and put thnn into cold water ; 
when all m, set the vessel ovor a moderate 
fire, keeping the water, howler, constandy 
nearly boiling, until the firuit will give to tfaie 
touch; then dirow them, with great care, 
into cold water again; drain away this war 
ter, and add finesh; change the water twice 
more within a quarter of an hour, after 
which, drain them for the laitt time, and put 
them in bottles; if any of the firuit is the 
least broken or bruised, it must be put aside, 
as it would qmil the rest. In tne mean- 
while, take a proper quantity of sugar (as a 
pound and a half for twenty-five peaches) ; ^ 
clarify and boil it to la nappe} measure, 
and put double its quantity of good brandy; 
mix and pour them into a glased pan; (et 
them stand awhile, and then pour die mix- 
ture on the fiuit. 



GAM 



83 



GAM 



FRUrr TO PREPAltfi FOR CHIL. 
I>HEN. Pot sppfes ilioed, or phnH, our- 
rants, gooi cbe nr i ei, &c. into a ttaoe jar, and 
aprinkfe as mudi Usbon sugar as neoessary 
among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, 
or in a saooepan of water, and let it remain 
till the fiuit is perfectly done. Slices of 
bread or rioe may be stewed with the fruit, 
or the fruit may beeaten with slices of dry 
bread, or with rioe, plain boiled. 



G. 



GAME. In choosing Tenison, the frtt of 
that whidi is good is thick , clear, and bright ; 
the clift part smooth and close. When the 
▼onistm is perfectly fresh, it is hung in a cool 
place, and carefiiUy wiped dry every day. 
When extreme tendemess is required from 
long keeping, but without its having a high 
flav<Nr, it is well rubbed over with powdered 
charcoal. 

The hamich is the prune joint, and when 
it is required to be roasted, it is first well 
vrashedin lukewarm milk-and-water, and 
then made quite dry before it is spitted. It 
is then covered witii a sheet of well-buttered 
white paper, over which is laid a«coarse 
paste of flour-and-water, about a quarter of 
an inch thick; this is again covered with 
battered white paper, and tied on with pack- 
thread. A substantial fire being made, the 
haundi is put down, and constantly basted 
with fresh beef dripning, till nearly done. 
When, the paste is taken oflf, the meat well 
basted with batter, and lightly dredsed with 
flour, till it froths and becomes of a nne light 
brown color. It is served with its own gra- 
vy in the dish, if there be enougli of it ; also 
a saoce tureen of good brown gravy, and 
one of currant jelly sauce beat up, and melt- 
ed with a little Port wine and sugar. 

A large haunch takes about four hours to 
roast. 

A neck and shoukler, when roasted, is 
mana|ped in the same way as the haunch, 
omittmg the paste ; but it is more frequently 
used for soups, pasties, and collops. 

Hare.— When fi^esh, the body is stifi*; 
and if young, the daws are smooth and 
sharp, tiie ears tendor and easily torn. 
Hares are kept from a week to a fortnight 
for roasting; but for soup, they cannot have 
been too recently killed. 

Rabbits are chosen by the same rules as 
hares. 

Wild fowl, in general, is chosen by the 
same rules as tame poultry. The birds 
should be plu^^) and fiit, and hard in the 
vent. If toe skin comes off when nibbed 
hard with the finger, they are stale. Okl 
birds improve by keeping for sometime; 



young birds are best if dressed kmd; and 
small birds, of all descriptions, should be 
immediately dressed. In warm weather, a 
stopper of charcoal should be put into the 
vent of all game, and a string tied tightly 
round the neck. 

To roast pheasants and partrid|^, they 
ore picked, cleaned, and moely singed; a 
slit is made in the bock part of me neck, and 
the craw taken out, leaving on the head, the 
feet twisted closdy to the body, the cbws 
cut off, and the head turned uncfer the wing. 
Both sorts are roosted by the directions for 
roasting a turkey or a fowl. A pheasant is 
served with gravy in the dish; partridges 
with a gravy, or laid upon buttered toast, 
and melted birtter poured round them. Bread 
sauce is ser^'ed with both. A pheasant will 
require nearly an hour to roast; partridges 
half an hour. Guinea and pea-fowl are 
roasted in the same way as pheasants. 

To roast Uack-cock, follow the dii^ections 
for roasting pheasants and partridses; it 
will require an hour, and is served with gra- 
vy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

Moorfowl are roasted in the same manner, 
and require three-quarters of an hour. They 
may be served upon buttered toast, or with 
gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce 
tureen. 

To restore tainted game or poultry, pick 
it carefully, clean, and warii it, then put into 
each hiixi a little newly-made pounded char- 
coal, tied in a bit of muslin. Before sen'ing, 
take out the bag, which will have a most 
offensive smell, while the bird will be left 
perfectly sweet. 

To roast wild duck.—- It should be roasted 
by a quick fire, well basted with butto*, and 
l»x>wnied. It will rerfuire nearly three-quar- 
ters of an hour, and when to be ser^'ed, some 
beef gravy is poured through the dock into 
the dish, and in a sauce tiu«en scune hot 
Port wine is served. The carver makes 
four cuts along the breast, it is dien sprin- 
kled with salt and a little Cayenne, the juice 
of half a lemon js squeezed over it, and the 
Port wine is then poured all over. 

To roast a wild sooae, the same directions 
are followed as for wild duck, alfowing 
more time to roast it, according to the size 
of the bird. 

Widgeons and teal are dressed in the 
same manner as the wild duck, and are 
roasted in ten minutes, and may be served 
upon fried bread crumbs. 

Woodcocks and snipes are roasted with- 
out being drawn ; a piece of toasted bread 
buttered is put under each bird, to catch the 
trail; they are well basted with butter, and 
serveid upon the l^ot toast over which they 
vrere ro^rted ; a rich brown gravy, or melt- 
ed butter, is poured round them. Wood 



GAM 



84 



GAT 



eodu win require half an boor, snipes and 
quails fifteen or twenty minutes to roast. 

Ortolans and ffreen plovers are not drawn, 
and are roastea and served in the same 
manner as woodcocks. 

To roast larks, wheatears, and other 
small birds, they are nicely picked, gutted, 
cleaned, and trussed; brumed over with 
melted butter, and rolled in |rrated bread, 
then spitted on a bird epit, which is listened 
npon a hurner one. To^ are basted witli 
butter, and sprinkled with some bread 
crumbs. They will require nearly fifteen 
minutes to roast, and are served upon firied 
bread crumbs, and brown gravy in a sauce 
tureen. 

Wild pigeons may be roasted, or made 
into a pie. 

Plovers' ^gs are boiled hard, and served 
in a napkin, or with green moss pot round 
each in the dish. 

GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four 
rabbits, four partri(^es, two pounds of veal, 
two pounds of steaks; put them into a 
stewpan, with a bottle of white wine; boil 
tliem until the whole is entirely reduced to 
a jelly ; thai add to it broth, and conaomme, 
(equal quantities of each), eight carrots, ten 
onions, three cloves, a litde thyme and ba- 
si! ; let the whole boil very gently, until the 
meat is quite done ; then strain it through a 
napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the 
broth and consomme are sufficiently season- 
ed to flavor the easence of game. 

GAME FRITTERS. Take way of 
tliose parts of cold roasted game, which can 
be cut into tliin slices, dip them into good 
batter, and fi*y them in olive oil, or rard. 
Sprinkle the fi'itters when done, with salt 
and spices, pounded very fine. 

GAME HASHED. See FowL 

GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE. Found 
half a dozen cloves of garlic; rob them 
through a silk sieve, with a wooden spoon ; 
put this into a mortar with some batter, and 
Leit it until thoroughly incorpcNrated ; then 
put this butter into any sauce you [dease. 

GARLIC, ESSENi::^ OF. Take an 
earthen dciltet, place it on the fire, and put 
into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of 
vinegar, the juice of two leoxMis, six ck>ves 
of garlic, the same number of cloves, the 
quarter of a nutmeg, and two boy-4eaves: 
when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it 
stand on hot ashes fi>r seven or eight hours ; 
strain it through a enarse sieve, and then 
filter it. Keep it in very ckwek corked 
bottles. A very small quantity or this es- 
sence is requisite to niipart its flavor to a dish. 



GARLIC GRAVY. Sike a peond and 
a half of veal, or beef; season k with pep- 
per and salt; pot it into a stewpan, with 
two carrots split, and foor cbves of garlic 
sliced, a quarter of a pound of sKoed naro, 
and a large spoonfiil of water ; put the stew- 
pan over a gentle fire, and waldi when the 
meat begins to stick to the pan ; vi^en it 
does, turn it, and let it be very well browned* 
(but take care diat it ia not hi the least 
burnt) ; then dredge it with floor, and poor 
in a quart of broth, a bunch' of sweet hate, 
a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a 
lemon ; set it on the fire again, then let it 
simmer gently for an boor and a half longer ; 
then skim olf the &t, and strain ctIC te gra- 
vy, by poorin^ it throogh a napkin, strain- 
ing and pressing it very hard. 

GATEAU DE COMPIEGNE. Tkdca 
three poonds of floor, two pounds of batter, 
an oonce and foor drachms of yrnst, an 
ounce of salt, a quarter of a poond of sugar, 
a glass of cream, twelve yolks and tw«ve 
whole eggs, and five or six spoonfiils of 
whipped cream. 

With these ingredients p roc e ed as foUows: 
sift the flour, of; which pot a fourth part on 
the slab, make a hole in the middle, put into 
it a glass of warm waterand the yeast; mix 
tfiem togedier as liehtly, and witti as mndi 
despatch as possible, adding more warm 
water if necessary; when vnsll worked up 
for some minutes, gather it together, (it 
ought to leave the slab and the hand freciy) , 
put it into a saucqnn; cover it, and pboe 
it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. 
Take the rest of the floor, lay it on the slab 
make a hole in the midcUe « it, in which 
put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir tbeaa 
together well, and then put in the eg^, one 
at a time, (break them into a basin, in case 
all shoukl not be good) ; the eggs being pot 
in, add by d^;rees the butter, stirring tbem 
well ; thai mix the floor, a little at a time, 
with the above, until the whole is fiMrmed 
into a smooth paste; more efga murt be 
added if it be too stiff; woik it up a little, 
and then add the leaven ; vrark that in; and 
lastly, put in the whipped cream. Hie 
whole operation being thus performed, have 
ready a t^lindrical fluted mould, (abont 
eight inches in diameter, and nine in height) ; 
bimer it by means of a spoi^, being care- 
fiil that it IS done in all parts, otherwise the 
gateau will adhere to it; pboe the mould 
m a moderately warm pmoe, hot where 
thore is a fi^ee current of air. When the g«- 
teau has risen so as to fill the mouki, and 
the snr&ce is a little inflated, k should be 
pit into the ov«i instantly, if not, it folk and 
oeoomes heavy. The oven most be of a 
moderate heat, and kept ckiaed whib the 
gateau b baking; take it ont in ^iboot an 



GHE 



85 



GIN 



kov, and if it be flesibie and li|[ht colored, 
lepJsuse it fer thirty or lorty miooteB; bat 
if; en the oontmy, it ii red, and firm to the 
toiieh, piece a tin phUe on the top, and put 
it in the oven till done; ramove the moold 
with care, and the gateau is finiabed. If 
the mouid does not cone away quite ao well 
as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. 
When taken ont, pot it in the oven for a few 
minates to dry. 

This gaUtm is soooednies varied by the 
additiMi of six ouaoes of sugared anise, and 
the saoBe quantity of dry currants. 

GATEAU D£ POMAIES. BoO in a 
pint of water one pound and a half of loaf 
sugar till it become a rich sinip; weigh 
two pounds of apples aAer they have been 
peeled, cored, and cut small; boil them in 
the sirup with the grated peel and juice of a 
large lemon till they are reduced to a pulp; 
put it into a mould. The IbUowing <»y 
serve it, turned out in a glass dish, with a 
richousterd. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (I) Mix very well 
Mrilh two large table-spoonfiils of flour, a quar- 
ter of a pint of cream, two well-beaten eggs, 
and a tea-spoonfiil of grated nutmeg, a very 
little salt, and one ounce of butter nnten to 
acream ; bake it in buttered cups for twen- 

Sr or thirty minutes; turn them out upon a 
ish, and serve them mstantly ; pour a sweet 
sauce round them. 

GERMAN PUFFS. (2) Beat to a 
cream a quarter of a pound oriresh birtto', 
blanch and pomid'one ounce of sweet almonds 
with a liule rose water, beat five yolks and 
three whites of eggs ; mix all togedier with 
two large table-spoonfuls of fiour, gumI sweeten 
it with pounded loaf sugar; bake it in but- 
tered cups, and serve them with a sweet 
sanoe. 

GHERKINS OR cucumbers pick- 
led. Choose gherkins very green and 
straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, 
sprinkle them with fine salt, then another lay- 
er of gherkins, which spru^de with salt also, 
and continue this operation until you have 
osed nearly a bushel of gherkins, Ifflive them 
in the salt for twenty-four hours, which will 
draw all the water from them; at the end 
of that time drain and place them in a jar, 
with a handful of allspice, the same of tarra- 
gon, a little bahn, ten sfaalbts, six cloves of 
garlic, two or three long peppers, twenty 
cloves, a lemon cot in quarters, and two 
small handfiils of salt. Boil two gallons of 
the best vinegar, pour it over the gherkins, 
and kt them stand till the next day, whmi 
boil the vinegar a second time, and pour it 
on Again; the following day boil the vine- 



gar for the third and last time, poor it over 
the gherkins, and when quite cold, cover the 
jar with a wet parchment. 

GIBLET PIE. 8i€ Piu. 

GIBLETS STEWED. Ckan two sets 
<^ giblets, put them into a sauce p an, just 
cover them with cold water, and set them on 
the fire ; when th^ boil, tsJie off the scum, 
and put in an onion, three cloves, or two bbdes 
of mace, a few buries of bladL peeper, the 
same of allspice, and half a tea-spoonfiil of 
salt ; cover the rtewpan ckise, and let itsimmer 
very gently till the giblets are quite tender: 
this will take firom one hour and a half to 
two and a half, according to the age of the 
giblets ; the pinions will be done first, and 
must then be taken out, and put in again to 
warm when the gizzards are done: watch 
than that they cb not set too much done: 
take them out and thicken the sanoe with 
flour and butter ; let it boil half an hour, or 
till there is just enough to eat with the gib- 
lets, and then strain it thixiuzli a tamis into 
a clean stewpan ; cut the gii^ts into mouth- 
fuls; put them into the sauce with the juKO 
of half a lemon, a tablew^Joonful of mush- 
room ketchup; pour the whole into a soup- 
dish, with sippets of bread at the bottom. 
Ox-tails prepared in the same way are ex- 
cellent eating. 

GINGERBREAD. Rub one pound of 
butter well into three pounds of flour; then 
add one pound of powder-sugar, (me pound 
of treacle, and two ounces of ginger pounded 
and sifted very tine ; one nutmeg grated very 
fine ; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, 
and mix all leather ; you may add carra- 
ways and sweetmeats if you choose ; make 
it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a Bk>w 
oven. If cake or biscuits are kept in paper 
or a drawer, they will acquire a disagreeable 
taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will 
preserve them long and mobt; or if to be 
crisp, laying them befinre the fire will make 
them so. 

GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. Stt 
American, 

GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUT- 
TER. Mix two pounds of treacle; of or- 
ange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, 
each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce 
of coriander-seeds, one ounce of caraways, 
and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much 
paste as wiU make a soft paste; lay it in 
cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a quick 
oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen 
vessel, and it will be good for some months. 

GINGERBREAD INDIAN. Take 



GIN 



86 



GIN 



UktAw oanoeB of pounded loaf sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound of fresh batter, one pound of 
dried flour, two ounces of jxMindea ginser, 
and of cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an 
ounce each. Mix ttie ginger and the spice 
with the flour; put the sugar and a small 
toa-ciK^ul of water into a saucepan ; whoi 
it is dissolved, add the butter, and as soon 
as it is melted, mix it with tiie flour and 
other things; work it up, and form the 
paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them 
upaa tins. 

GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. 

Five eggs ; half a pound of brown sugar ; half 
a pouiKl of fresh butter ; a pint of siigar-hooBe 
molasses; a pound and a half of flour; four 
table-spoonfuls of ginger; two large sticks of 
cinnamon ; three doaeii grains m allspice ; 
three dozen of cloves; the juice and grated 
pee! of two lemons. Stir the butter and su- 
gar to a cream : beat the c^gs very well ; 
pour the molasses at once, mto the butter 
and sugar. Add the ginger and other spice, 
and stir all well together. Put in the egg 
and flour alternately, stirring all the time. 
Stir the whole very liard, and put in the 
lemon at the last. When the whole is mix- 
ed, stir it till very light. Butter an earthen 
pan, or a thick tin or ircm one, and put the 
gingerbread in it. Bake it in a modei-ate 
oven, an hour or more, according to its 
thickness. Take care that it do not bum. 
Or yfoa may bake it in small cakes, or lit- 
tle tins. Us lightness will be much improv- 
ed by a small tea-epoonflil of pearbsh dis- 
solved in a lea-spoonful of vin^ar, and stir- 
red lightly in at the last. Too much pearl- 
ash will ffive it an unpleasant taste. If you 
use pearmsh, you must omit the lemon, as 
its taste wiU be entirely destroyed by the 
pearlash. You may substitute tor the lem- 
on some raisins and currants, well floured 
to prevent Uieir sinking. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (1) Take four 
pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, 
an ounce of caraway-seeds, half an ounce 
of ginger pounded anil sifted, six ounces of 
fresh butter, and two ounces of candied or- 
ange-peel cut into small slices ; then take a 
pound of treacle or honey, and a gill of 
cream, make than warm together; nlix it, 
with all the ingredients, into a paste, and 
let it lay six hours ; then roll it out, make it 
into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (2) Take 
one pound of dried and sifted flour, one 
pound <^ treacle, three ounces of brown so- 
gar,four ounces of fresh butter, one ounce 
and a half of pounded and sifted ginger, of 
candied orange-peel and citron, cut small, 
thne-qoarton of an ooDce each; melt the 



butter with the treacle, and when it is about 
milk-warm, add it to the floor ilnd other 
in^predients, and then mix all well together; 
with a spoon drop the nuts upon buttoned 
tins, and bake them. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (8) Diih 
solve a quarter of a pound of butter in three- 
quarters of a pound of treacle, put it into a 
pan large enough to contain the rest of the 
ingredients, and when almost cold, stir in 
cme pound of dried and sifted flour, half a 
pound of coarse brown siq;ar, half an ounce 
of caraway seeds, three-ouarters of an ounce 
of pounded ginser, and the grated peel of a 
lemon ; mix all these well together, and let 
it stand till it be stiff, or till the followinj; 
day, then make it into nuts, by pindiing it 
into pieces with the flnger and thumb. 
Bake them upon buttered tins in a quick 
oven. Half an ounce <^ coriandtf seeds 
may be added. 

GINGERBREAD NUTS. (4) Rub 
half a pound of butter into two pounds of 
flour; add one pound of coarse sugar, and 
one ounce of pounded ginger; mix all well 
together with one^pound and two ounces of 
treacle ; foim it into nuts, or roll it out, and 
cut it into round cakes; bake them upon 
tins. 

GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL. Sift 
four pounds of oatmeal, and mix with it four 
pounds of treacle, half a pound of brown su- 
gar, die same quantity ot melted butter, and 
three-quarters of an ounce of powdered gin- 
ger. Work it all well togetner, let it re- 
main for twent^^ur hours, and then make 
it into cakes. 

GINGER BEER. See Beer. 

GINGER CAKES. Put foiv pounds of 
flour upon the dresser; then take a copper 
saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and 
mix them well with a spoon ; add one pint 
of cream to them, and beat them well ; put 
the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mix- 
ture is warm ; put two pounds of ratter into 
the cream and eggs, and Mie pound of sugar, 
and keep stirring it over a very slow nre, 
just to melt all the butter; put in four ounces 
of pounded ginger, and as somi as all the 
butter is melted, pour it all into the middle 
of the flour ; mix it as well as you possibly 
can, till it becomes a fine paste ; (hen roll it 
out with flour under it on your dresser; cut 
them to the size of the top of a tea>cup, a 
quarter of an inch in thickness ; and before 
you put them into the oven (which sliould be 
very hot), place three papers under them. 

GINGER IMITATION. Peel oflT the 



OLA 



87 



oroo 



Otttef OOBtoftDB tgpdef rt0lll*of IcttUCBuMU H 

short, cut it into biti one or two iocbei long, 
mod throw it into cold water; to each pound 
put in a teaHBpoonfiil of Oayenne, and a 
little sah; let it stand one or two dayu; al- 
low an equal proportion of fine loaf sugar, 
vrhich cJariiy. Soak some good ginger in 
hot water, slice it, and add it to the sugar, 
albwiM one ounce and a half to the pound, 
and boil it for fifteen minutes; strain off the 
water firoro the lettuoe, and pour over it 
the sirup, keeping back the ginger, with 
which the sirup must be boiled three times, 
and poured over the lettuce, two or three 
days intervening between each boiling; and 
at last add the strained juice of one or two 
lemons. 

GLACE, ROYAL. Put the white of a 
new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a 
sttflici'snt auantity of white powder-sugar to 
make a glaee or icing, neither too d^ nor 
too liquid; beat it well, and add a little 
lemon-juioe to whiten it. By mixii^ with 
this glaee, carmine, saffiron, indigo, spi- 
nach-juice, &c. ; it will be either roee-ool- 
ofed, yelbw, blue, green, kc. aooording to 
your taste. 

GLAZE. (1) Take the remains of 
any liquor in which meat has been cooked, 
and strain it through a silk sieve until quite 
clear; then put it into a saucepan and re- 
duce it over a brisk fire: as soon as it is 
sufficiently done, that is, when it sticks to 
the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, 
and set it in the ham-marU; when wanted, 
add a smaU piece of firesh batter to it, to 
correct its saltness. 

GLAZE. (2) Make a etmtommt with 
whatever remnants of fowls or meat that may 
be in the house; sUain it, and then put it (ni 
the fire with two or three whites of eggs 
beaten to a snow ; stir till it boils, and thna 
set on the side of the stove, and pboe fire 
on the saucepan lid; as soon as the ens are 
set, pass the gbie throu^ a vret cfeui; re- 
duce this over a laige fire, stirring it con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its 
sticking; then pour it into a pot fiir use. 
When wanted, put a small quantity of it in- 
to a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow 
fire; and, in this state, lay it gently over 
such articles as may require glaz^, by 
means of a feather. 

GLA2X. (8) Desire the butcher to break 
the bones of a leg or a shin of beef, of Usa 
pounds weight (tte fi^sher killed the better) ; 
pot it into a soup-pot (a digester is die best 
utensil for this purpose) that will well hold 
it ; just cover it with cold water, and set it 
on the fire to beat gradually tiU it nearly 



boib (thb should be at least an hoar); skim 
it attentively while any scum rises; pour in 
a little cold water, to throw up the scun 
that ma^ remain ; let it come to a boil again, 
and agam skim it carefiilly: when no more 
scum rises, and the broth appears clear (pat 
in neither rooto, nor herbs, nor sak), kt it 
boil for eight or ten hoars, and then stiain 
it through a hair sieve into a brown stone 
pan; set the broth where it wOI cool quickly; 
pat the meat into a sieve, let it drain, make 
potted beef, or it wiO be veiy aooeptabie to 
many poor fiunilies. Next day remove 
every partKle of fot firom the top of it, and 
poor it through a tamis, or fine siere, aa 
quietly as possible, into a stewpan, taking 
care not to let any of the se«llmgB at the 
bottomof the stone pan eo into the stewpan, 
which should be or thidt copper, perfectly 
well tinned ; add a quarter of an ounce of 
whole bbMsk pepper to it ; let it boil briskly, 
with the stewpan uncovered, on a quick 
fire ; if any scum rises, take it off with a 
skimmer: when it begins to thicken, and is 
reduced to aboot a quart, put it into a smal- 
ler iMewpan; set it over a gentler fire, till it 
is reduced. 

GODIVEAU. Take fillet of veal or 
breasts of fowl or game, fiesh pork or 
ssuMa^ meat, beef-marrow or soet* equal 
quantities of each, veal s weet br e ads, truf* 
nes, and mushrooms; season these articles 
with pepper, cloves, and notroeg, all is 
powder; pound them all toaemer, and 
put in (one at a time) the yolks of eggs; 
pour in also a little water, poandiiw coo- 
tinually, until it is reduced to a sort oT paste. 
Make a small boll of it, which boil in a 
little water to ascertain whedier it he suf- 
ficiently salt; sweet herbs may be added 
when yuu are about to use it. Tue godhetm 
is used as ti force for tovrtee and hot pies. 

GOOSE, TO CHOOSE. Be careful 
in choosing a ^oose, that the bill and feet 
are yellow, as it will be younff: when old 
the feet and bill are red. Wnen they are 
firesh the feet are pliable ; if stale Uiey are 
dry and stiff. Green geese are in season 
fix>m May or June, till uiey are three months 
old; they should be scalded. A stubble 
goooe is good till it is five (w six months 
old, and should be picked dry. 

(SOOSE ROASTED. A stubble g^oosa 
should be stuflfed with sage and <Hiions, 
chopped small, and mixed with pepper and 
salt ; boil the sage and miion in a little w»- 
tor before they are chopped, or mix a few 
bread cnmibs with diem when chopped ; 
either will render thein less -strong. Put it 
first at a distace 6eom the fire, and fay de- 
grees drew it nearer. A slip of paper 



GOO 



•88 



GRA 



akoiild be dkewcred oa the breait bone. { 
Baate it very welL When the breast is 
namg, take off the paper, and be careful to 
Kene it bdbre the breaat falls, it will be 
spoilt by ooming to taUe flattened. Serve 
it with good gravy and qiple sauoe, in 
boats It will take aboirt an hour and a 
half to roast. 

GOOSE TO TRUSS. The goose must 
be firot well picked and stubbed, then cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, and the 
feet also. Make a slit in the back of the 
neck, and take out the throat, cut off the 
neck close to the back and the skin, but 
leave enough to turn ovor the bock ; nuke a 
slit between the vent and the rump, throu|^ 
which draw out the entrails, then wipe it 
clean. Draw the k^ up, keeping them 
ckiee to the side, then put a skewer into 
the wing, through the middle of the leg, 
body, and the 1^ and wing oa the othor 
tide ; pul another skewer tltfough the small 
ef the k^, which keiq[> ckise to the sidesmen; 
nm it through, and do the same on the oth- 
er side. Gut tbrouffh die end oC the vent, 
through which put me rua^i, to prevent the 
stuffing firom filing out..' 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. BoU one 
quart of gooseberries vety quick, in as much 
water as wiU cover them: stir in about half 
an ounce of good butler; when thejr are 
to^t pulp them through a sieve; sweeten 
the pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then 
heat it up with the yolks of four eggs; serve 
in a dish, oips, or glasses. 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put goose- 
berries into a stone jar, with some fine su- 
gar ; put the jar either ia a stove, or in a 
saucepan of water, over the fire; if in a 
stove, a large spocmfiil of water should be 
added to the finit. When it is done to pulp, 
press it through a colander; have ready a 
sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea^ 
cupfiil of raw cream, boiled together, or 
you may use an ^;g instead of the cream ; 
leave it to eet coldl then sweeten well with 
fine «5ar,nnd -ix *. p.lp by deg«e. 
With It. 

GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE. BoU 

them a moment, or only scald them in bpil- 
ing water, sift them throusfa a sieve ; reduce 
them^ver the fire to halt, then mix them 
with sugar prepared to the ninth degree (a 
la grande phime), half a pound of sugar to 
a pound c^firuit* 

' GOOSEBERRY JAM. See Jam. 

GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Gather, 
when quite ripe, the rough red goos^rriee ; 



top and tail than; pgt them into ajar, tie 
it over with bladder, and boH it in a pot 
of water till the fruit be perfectly soft; pour 
off the thin juice, and with a wooden spoon 
nd> the gooseberries through a fine hair 
sieve ; allow rather more tlian half the 
weight of the pulp of pounded loaf sugar, 
mix it to€ether, and boil it till it will jelly, 
which WW take almost two hours ; stir, and 
skim it, then put it into a dish, and sei-ve 
when cold, to be eatra with cream. The 
thin juice may be boiled with its weight of 
good brown sugar, and used as gooseberry 
jeUy. 

GOURDS FRIED. (1) Cut five or six 
gourds in quarters ; take off the skin and 
pulp ; stew them in the same manner as foi • 
table: whra done, drain them quite dr^; 
beat up an ^^, and dip the gourds in it, 
and covor ihem well over with bread-orumbs ; 
make scmie hog's-lard hot, and fry them a 
nice light color; throw a little salt aod 
pepper over them, and serve up quite dry, 

GOURDS FRIED. (2) Take six or 
eight small gourds, as near oi a sise as pos- 
sible; slice them with a cucumber-slice; 
dry them in a cloth, and then fry them in 
very hot lard ; throw over a little pepper and 
salt, and serve up oa, a nankiik Great at- 
tratiim is requisite to do these weU; if the 
fat is quite, hot they are done in a minute, 
asMd will sooia spoil ; if noi hot enough, they 
will eat greasy and tough. 

GOURDS STEWED. Take off aU 
the skin of six or eight gourds, put diem in-, 
to a stewpan, with water,, sale, lemon-juice, ^ 
and a bit of butter, or ^t bacon, and let 
them stew gently till quifte tender, and serve 
up with a rich Dutdi sauee, or ai^ other 
sauce you please that is piquanU* 

GRAPES, COMPOTE. Boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with hatfa glass of wa- 
ter, till it is reduced to a stronff sinq|>; skim, 
and then put into it a pound of sr^pes, pick- 
ed firom the stalks, and the seewt taken out ; 
give them a boil two or three times, and 
Uien place them in a dessert dish: if there is 
ai^ scum upon them, earefiilly wipe it cS 
with white paper. 

GRAPES, PICKLED. The grapes 
must be at their full growth, but not ripe, 
cut them in small bundles ; put them in a 
stone jar, with viae leaves betweea each 
layer of grapes, till the jar is full ; then take 
as much spi*ing-water as will cover the 
grapes and the feaves ; as it heats put in as 
much salt as will make a brine sufficiendv 
strong to bear an egg ; you must use hatf 
bay salt and half common salt; wtieD it 



ORA 



89' 



GRA 



hoiki Aim h} •train it lfaroiq;h a flannel 
bag, and fet it stand to settle; fay the time it 
is cold it will be quite settled; strain it a 
secxHid time through a^ flannel bag; then pour 
it into the jar, upmi the grapes, which must 
be well covered ; fill the iar with vine leaves ; 
then tie it over with a double cloth, and set 
a plate upon it ; let it stand for two days, 
then take off the cloth, pour away the Inrinc, 
and take out the leaves and the grapes, and 
lay them between two cloths to dry; then 
take two quarts of vinegar, one quait of 
qiring-water, and one pound of coarse sugar, 
boil it for a short time, and skim it very 
clean as it boib; let it stand till it is quite 
cold; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay 
some firesh vine leaves at the bottom, between 
every bunch (^gra|ies, and on the top; then 
pour and strain die pickle on the grapes; 
fill the jar ^ let the picKle be above the grapes ; 
tie up a thin piece of board in a flannel, lay 
it on the grapes to keep them under thie 
pickle ; tie diem down with a Madder, and 
over tluit a leather. Always ke^ the grapes 
under the pickle. 

GRATIN. Cut half a pound of fillet of 
veal into dice, and put it into a stewpan 
with a piece of butter, a few mushrooms, 
parsley, shallots chopped small, salt, pepper, 
and spices; stir them up with a wooden 
spoon ; and when the meat has been on the 
fire about a quarter of an hour, take the 
drain off the butter, mince it vpry small, and 
put it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or 
game livers, well washed, dried, and par- 
boiled, all the bitter ports taken out, pound 
them, adding ut times as much panada as 
you have meal ; boil some calPs uader, trim, 
and remove all tlie skin wlien cold, and put 
al)oiit a third of the quantity of meat, and 
pound them togetlier, adding, one at a time, 
three yolks, and three whode e^^ ; season 
with salt, pe}>per, and spices; when well 
pounded, set it fay in an earthen pan for 
use. 



GRAVY. 
Sauee$. 



See also OulHa and 



GRAVIES, DIRECmONS rxspxgt- 
INO. — ^The skirts of beef and the kidn^, 
will make quite as good gravy as any other 
meat, if prepared in the same manner. 

Tlie kidn^ of an ox, or the milt, makes 
excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and pre- 
pared as other meat; and so will the shank 
end of mntton that has been diessed» if much 
gravy is not required. 

The shank-bones of mutton add greatW to 
the richness of gravy; but they uKiuld be 
first well soaked, and scoured clean. 

To obtain the flavor of French cookery, 
and to improve the taste of the gravies, tar- 
• 8* 



ragon should be need; but it 
added till a riiort time befoce 



Ml h9 



««• 



GRAVY. (1) Take thne pounds of besT 
steaks, two rabbits, (eacepting the beads 
and breasts), a knuckle of ^al, five carroUy 
six onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a 
bunch of parsley and scallions; put all these 
into a stewpan, with two ladlesfiil of broth, 
and set them over a good fire to reduce ; 
then cover the stove, and let the ste%vpaii 
stand oyer it, until the meat begins to give 
out the gravy, and adheres slightly ; the jel- 
ly at the bottom of the stewpaa ought to be 
nearly black, and when that is the case, 
take It fitmi the stove, and let it stand for 
ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 
good broth, or water, (if the latter, not so 
large a quantity) ; let tliis simmer for three 
hours; skim and season it well. If water 
is used instead of brotli, the gravy must be 
strained before it is used. Gravy may abio 
be made of any pieoet of real^ dressed 
meat, in the following manner: cut some 
oni(His into slices, lay them at the bottom of 
the stewpan, and the meat on them, with 
the same ingredients as above, and two or 
tliree glasses of water ; then proceed in the 
same manner as the other, until the bottom 
of the stewpan is nearly Uack, when add 
water according to the quanti^' of meat ; 
put sak if necessary, and simmar the whole 
for two hours; then strain it throu^ a 
sieve. 

GRAVY. (2) Cut down into slices foitf 
pounds of lean beef, rub the bottom of the 
pot with butter, and put in the meat ; turn it 
frequently till it be well browned, and do it 
8k)wly, then add four quarts of cold water; 
when it has boiled two hours, put in two 
dessert-spoonfuls of whole p^per, one car- 
rot, and tliree onions; let it stew sentl^ for 
four hours kmger, strain it, and vraen it ie 
required for use, take ofi" the fot. This gra- 
vy answei'B for all made dishes when brown 
giavy sauce is used. 

GRAVY AND STUFFING FOR 
DUCKS. Boil all die giblets exceptinjt die 
liver for an hour in a pint of water with a 
chopped oni(»i,Bome salt and pepper; strain, 
and add a very little browning, with a tea- 
spoonfol of coratch, and one of mushroom 
ketchup; for the stuffing, mince the raw 
liver widi two sage leaves, a small onion, 
some pepper and salt, a bit of butter, and 
grated bread crumbs. 

Send your sauces to table as hot as poe- 
sible. 

Nothing can be more unsighUy than the 
surfiice of a sauce in a fi'ozen state, or £hi>- 
nished with grease on the top. The Best 
way to get rid of this, is to pass it thmuirh 



ORA 



90 



GKA 



A tatDM or napkin previously soaked in cold 
water; the coldnesB of the naf^in will coag- 
ulate the lat, and only sufier the pure gravy 
to pafls through: if any particles of fat re- 
khain, take them off by applying filtering pa- 
per, as blotting paper n appli^i to writing. 
Let your sauces boil up after you put m 
wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their fla- 
vors may be-well blended wldi the other in- 
gredients; and keep in mind that the 
top-kjiot of COOKERY is, to entertain the 
mouth without offending the stranach. 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES. It is of 
as much importance that the cook should 
know how to make a boat of ffood gravy for 
poultry, &c. as that it «hould oe sent up of 
proper complexion, and nicely frothed. 

We shall endeavor to introduce to her all 
the materials which give flavor in Bouce 
which is the essence of soup, and intended 
to contain more relish in a teO'^poonfid 
than the fisrmer does in a iable-vpoon^l. 

We hope to deserve as much praise from 
the eeonomiai as we do from the oon vwmUs 
as we have taken great pains to introduce to 
him the methods of maJiing substitutes for 
those ingredients, which are always expen- 
sive, and often not to be had at ail. Many 
of these cheap articles are as savory and 
as salutary as the dearer ones, and those who 
have large families and limited incomes, will, 
BO doubt, be glad to avail themselves of 
them. 

Tlie reader may rest assured, that wheth- 
er he consults this book to diminish the ex- 
pense or increase the pleasures of hospitality, 
he will find all the information that was to 
be obtained up to 18^, communicated in 
the most unreserved and intelligible manner. 

A great deal of the elegance of cookery 
depeiKis upon the accompaniments to esAi 
dish being approjM'iate and well adapted 
to it. 

We can assure our readers, no attention 
has been wantii^ on our part to render this 
department of the work worthy of their pe- 
rusal ; each receipt is the faithful narrative 
of actual and repeated experiments, and has 
received the most deliboate consideration 
before it was here presented to th^n. It is 
given in the most circumstantial manner, 
and not in the tedinical and mysterious lan- 
guage former writers on these subjects seem 
to luive preferred ; by which their directions 
are useless and unintelligible to all who have 
not regularly served an apprenticeship at the 
stove. 

It will be to vary little purpose that I 
have taken so much pains to teach how to 
manage roasts and boils, if a cook cannot or 
will not make the several sauces that are 
usually sent up with them. 

We have, tlieiefore, endeavored to give 



the plainest directions how to {H-oduce, with 
the feast trouble and expense possible, all 
the various compositions the Englidi kitchen 
affords ; and hope to present such 9, whole* 
some and palatable variety as will suit all 
tastes and all pockets, so that a cook may 
give satisfaction in all femilies. The mora 
combinations of this sort she is acquainted 
with, the betto* she will comprel^d the 
management of every one of them. 

Let your sauces each display a decided 
character; send up your plain sauces (oys* 
ter, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible: tb^ 
should only taste of the materials from which 
they take their name. 

The imagination of mod 6ooks is bo in* 
oessantly on the hunt for a relish, that tb^ 
seem to think they cannot make sauoe'sum- 
ciently savory without putting into it every- 
thing that ever was eaten; and supposing 
every addition must be sm improvement, they 
fi^uently overpower the natural flavor of 
their PLAIN SAUCES, by overloading dican 
with salt and spices, &c.: but, remember, 
these will be deteriorated by any addition, 
save onlyjtnst salt enough to awaken the 
palate. 

On the contraiy, of compound sauces ; 
the ingredients should be so nicely propor- 
tioned, that no one be predominant; so that 
firom the equal union of the combined fla- 
vors such a fine mellow mixture is produced, 
whose very novelty cannot &il of being ac- 
ceptable to the persevering gourmand^ if it 
has not pretensions to a permanent place at 
his table. 

An ingenious eook will form as endless a 
variety of these compositions as a musician 
with his seven notes, or a pairUer witli hin 
colors; no part of her business offers so fiiir 
and frequent an opportunity to display her 
abilities: spices, herbs, &c. are often 
verv absurdly and injudiciously jumbled to- 
gether. 

Why have clove and allspioe, or mace and 
nutmeg, in the same sauce; or marjoram, 
thyme, and savory; or onions, leeks, es- 
cfclalots, and garlic? one will very well sup- 
ply the place of the other, and the firugal 
cook may save something considerable by 
attending to this, to the advantage of her 
employers, and her own tifiie and trouble. 

ICJ* 'Sfee Sauces and Gullis for 
other important particulars, 

GRAVlfes, ESSENCE OF HAM 
FOR. Pick off aU the bits of meat firom a 
hs^R-bone, pound them, break the bone, and 
put all into a saucepain, together with nearly 
half a pint of v^ter, and a bunch of sweet 
herbs ; simmer gently for sometime, stirring 
it occasionally ; then add a pint of good beef 
gravy, an#^some peppm*, and continue to 
simmer it |ill It be>' w^ flavoiybwith the 



OUA 



91 



GRA 



W)»; tttm,maA keep it < u i iif K U f by ridi 
gimTiee sad ■aoDee of all deecnprkMie. 

GRAVY FOR BOILED MEAT, May 
km made Witk paringB and trimminfi; or 
poor finom a quarter to katf a pint of the li- 
quor in which the meat waa boiled^ into the 
didi with it, and pierce the inferior pact of 
the joint widi a ihaip skewer. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST BfEAT. (1) 

Moat joints will aflford mfficient trimmings, 
&c. to make half a pint of plain gravy, which 
yon may cobr with a few drops of browniDf : 
for those that do not, about half an hour be- 
fore you think the meat will be done, mix a 
aalt-spooniul of salt, with a IbH quarter-pint 
ef boiling water; drop this by degrees on 
the brown parts of the joint; set a dish un- 
der to catch it (the meat will so<ni bruwn 
again) ; set it fay; as it oools, the fet will 
4ciar on th»surfeoe; when the meat is ready, 
carefiilly remove die fiit, and warm up the 
gra^, and pour it into the dish. 

The common method is, when the mesA. 
is in the dish you intend to send it up in, 
«o mix half a tea^spoonful of salt in a quarter 
ipint of boiling water, and to drop some of 
this over the comers and underside of the 
meat, and to pour the rest through the hole 
'the spit came out of: some pierce the infe- 
rior parts uf the joints with a sharp skewer. 

The following receipt was given us by a 
very ^ood cook: — ^You may make good 
browning for roast meat and poultry, by 
saving the brown bits of roast meat or broii- 
«d ; cut dKin small, put ttmm vbHo a basin, 
«over them with boiling water, and put them 
nvivy till next day; then put it into a sauce- 
pan, let it boil two or three minutes, strain 
tt through a sieve into a basin, and put it 
«way for use. When you want ^vy for 
Toaat ment, put two tab le s p oonfiils mto half 
a pint of lx>ding water with a little salt: if 
for roasted veal, put three tahlenspoonfob 
into lialf a pint of uiin melted butter. 

The gravy which comes down in the dish, 
, ^hc cook (if she is a good housewife) will 
preserve to enrich huhes or little mads 
disher, &c. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. (2) 
About a quarter of an hour bdbre the meat 
is taken from the fire, put a eoaunon dish 
with a teanipoonfol oif salt in it under the 
meat; when it has all rai into the diah, r^ 
move it, baste and froth the meat, and pour 
the gtavy into the dish on which the roast is 
to beseonwl. 

GRAVY MADE FROM BONES. 

Break into small pieces a pound of bmf, 
mutton, or veal bones, if «i^Bsd lJ||iilMi so 
HMich the h0a^ ; boil tlpai jb twfgwrta of 



water, and alUr it boils, lei it ainra«r fer 
nearly three hours : boil with it a oouple of 
<»ions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt 
and pepper; strain^ and keep it for making 
gravy or sauces. Hm bones of broiled aai 
roasted sseat heing scraped, washed clean, 
and boiled in leas water, answer equally well 
for this purpose. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT, 

(1) Slice three onions, and fry them brown 
in a little butter; add them to half a pint 
of water, and the same of beer, put in soma 
[feppercorns, salt, a little lemon peel, three 
cloves^ a Itttle mace or pepper, a spoonful 
of walnut pickle, and one of mushroom 
ketchup, of soy wid ce s ea o e of anchovy a 
de8sert<epoonfiu each, a small bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a quarter of a slice of bread 
toasted brown on both sides; simmer all to- 
gether in a closely covered saucepan for 
tw«9ty minutes, then strain it for use, and 
when ooU take off the fee It will taste 
exactly like a gravy made with meat. 

GRAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

(2) Knead a good deal of flour into a pieoo 
of butter the size of an egg, fr]r it in a fry- 
ing-pan over a clear fire, stir it cmstant^ 
with a wooden i^poen till it become a nice 
brown color, taking particular care that it 
be made peifectly smooth; pour in some 
boiling M^ter, add a little finely-minoed on- 
ion, some whole pe|)per and a uttle salt, put 
it into a small saucepan, cm'er it doeelyy 
and simmer it for a short time; strain, and 
mix with it a little mudiroom ketchup, and 
Port wine. 

GRAVY OR RICH (nJLLIS. CJut 

into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton, 
cover the bottom of the saucepan with the 
veal, dien put in a few slices of salt pork, 
next a layer of beef, add a few onions diced, 
and the red part of one or two carrots, a 
little mace, two or three cloves, some whole 
pepper, and two or three bay-leaves, above 
that the mutton ; cover the pancloeely, set it 
on a slow fire, and when the meat is a fine 
brown, mix quite smooth a small quantity 
of flour in water, stir it in, and then add as 
much boilinff water as will cover the meat 
well, and a little salt ; cover the pan cloeeiy, 
and let it stew an hour and a half; strain, 
and keep it for use; it will oo nt i i ws good for 
eight or ten days. 

GRAVY DRAWN. Put a few pounds 
of gray^-beef slioad, and a little whole 
pepper, mto a jar with aeover U> fitckisely ; 
set the jar iolD a pot of cold water, and wnm 
it boils, add m it wastes more hot water, 
and keep it boiling ipsntiy for six or seven 
hours, when flie ridiest pavy i m ag in a b le 



GKA 



W 



HAM 



win be obtained. It may be used in that 
states or reduced with water^ 

GRAVY, TO MAKE A PINT OF 
RICH. Brown a quarter of a pound of 
butter, dredging in two tabke-spoonfiiVi of 
flour, and itirring it constantly ; add a pound 
of gravy-beef cut into small bits, and two or 
three onions chopped. When it becomes 
brown, add some whole peppo", one carrot, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, and three pints of 
water ; let it boileentiy till reduced to one, 
then strain it. This gravy may be served 
with roasted turkey or fowl 

GRAVY, TO CLARIFY. Clarify gra- 
vy, drawn from beef m* veal, with the beaten 
whites of eg^, allowing one white to a 
quart. Gravies and soaps which are to be 
clarified should be made very strong, and be 
highly seasoned. 

GRAVY AND SAUCE ikgredi- 
£N TS. Brownii^ for made dishes. — ^Put into 
a saucepan one pound of good brown sii^r, 
stir it constantly over a slow fire, boil it 
till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles 
it in color; take the pan off the fire, stir it 
for a minute or two^and pour in very slowly 
a quart of boiling water, stirring constantly $ 

{>ut it again on the fire, and boil it for a 
ittle; pour it into a bowl, and when* cold, 
bottle it. This browning will keep good 
for a year, and very little of it sei'ves for 
coloring soups, gravies, or sauces. 

To clarify butter. — Put the butter cut into 
slices into a nicely-cleaned brass pan, stir it 
gently till dissolved: when it boils, draw die 
pan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let 
it boil ^ntly a second time, and if amr scnm 
again rises, take it ofif; let it settle for two 
or three minutes, and strain it gently through 
a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid 
into it. 

Fresh beef suet, picked firee from skin 
and sinews, is dissolved in the same way ; 
it is then strained through muslin into small 
jars, and when cold, covered with bladdor, 
or it may be strained into cold water ; and 
the cake when cold, wiped dry; folded in 
v^ite paper, and kept in a linen bag. 

Beef suet will keep firesh for sometime 
if finely chopped uid dredged with fioor, 
and kept in white paper ba^ in a cool place. 

Beef and mottmi drippings are ckurified 
exactly in the manna* butter is done, and 
each kept in a separate jar. 

To melt hog's-Urd, put it into a jar plac- 
ed in a pot of water or water bath, strain it 
roto clean bladders or small jars, and cover 
them with paper. Thus prepared, it will 
keep good a loiffth of time, and is the best 
thinff for frryinff fish in. 

1% firypaiwejf wash it, pick it clean, 



and pnt it into fivdi ooM water } take H oof 
and then throw it into boiline kurd of drip«- 
ping, when it will instantly become crisp; 
It is thea taken out with a sfioe. 

GRUEL. DR. KITCHENER'S. Ask 
those who are to eat it, if they like it 
thick or thin ^ if the latter, mix weH togeth-^ 
er by degrees, in a pint basin, one table-- 
spoonful of oatmeal, with three of cold wa- 
ter ; if the former, use two spoenfiils. 

Have ready in a stewpan, a pint of boiP 
ing water <n* milk ; pour tiiis hy degrees to 
the oatmeal you have mixed ; return it into 
the stewpan ; set it on the fire, and let it 
boU for five minutes ; stirring it all the time 
to jn^vent the oatmeal from burning at th» 
Imttom of the stewpan ; skim and strain it 
through a hair sieves 

2d« To convert this into candle, add a* 
little ale, wine, or brandy, with sugar ; and 
if the bowels are disordered, a little nutmej^ 
or ginger, grated.- 

06s. — <xruel may be made with broth in- 
stead of water; and may he flavored witb 
sweet herbs, soup roots, and aufery ^ices,r 
by boiling them for a few minutes in tha 
vrater yon are going to make the grod with*. 



H. 



HAM. If it is a very dry Westphalisi 
ham, it must be soaked, acccxdiog to its age 
and thickness, from twelve to twenty-foor 
hours ; for a green ham, from four to eight 
hours wiUbe«ufficient. Lukewarm water will 
soften it much sooner than cold, when soffi- 
cientfy soaked, trim it nicely on the andei*'' 
side, and pare off all the rasty and smiled 
parts till it looks delicately clean. 

Give it plenty of water-room, and put it 
lo while the water is cold ; let it heat very 
gradually, and let it be on the fire an hour 
and a half before it comes to a boil ; let it 
be well skimmed, and- keep it simmering 
very gently: a mickUing-eized ham of fifteen 
pouttOB will be done enough in about four or 
five hours, according to its thickness."^ 

If not to be cut till coM, it will cut the 
shorter and tenderer for being boiled about 
half an hour lon^r. In a very small fomily, 
where a hmn will last a week or ten days, 
it is best economy not to cot it till it is ooid, 
it will be infioit^ more jui<^. 

Pull off the skin carefiilly, and preserve it 
as whole as possible ; it wiU form an excel* 
lent covering to keep the ham moist ; when 
you have removed the skin, rub some bread 
raqiings through a hair sieve, or grate a 
crust oSftread; |)ut it into the pemrated 
cover oftke dradgiiig4ii»x, and ^^ake it ovw 



HAM 



93 



HAM 



it, or gbse H; trim the knackle with a 
fringe <N cut wriliog-poper. You may gar- 
aidi with ipiiiagie or tuniips, &c. 

To pot ham is a much more useful and 
economical way of disposing of the remains 
^ the joint, than making essence of it. 



HAM AND EGGS. Gut some bam 
into thin slices, and broil them ou a gridiron. 
Fry some eggs in butter. Serve it, laying 
an egg on each slice of ham. 

HAM, ESSENGE OF. Take three or 
four pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces 
about an inch thick, and lay them in a stew- 
pan, with slices of carrots, parsnips, and 
three or font onimis; let them stew till they 
Mick to the pan, but take care they do not 
Ixum; then- by degrees pour in some good 
^eal gravy, a few fresh mushrooms cut in 
pieces, (or mushroom^wder), truffles, mor« 
^, doves, parsl^, leek, basil, and a crust 
of bread; cover it close, and nmmer till 
ipmtaty thick, thm strain it off for 



HAM GRAVY. Take a deqp sanoe- 
{Aii, put into it a piece of fresh batter, seve- 
ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal 
the size of a walnut, and two or three car- 
flx»ts cut in small pieces; set these over a 
elow fire, and let them stand tiH dMy give 
out their juices, and the ham and v^ be- 
come crisp and stick; then put in a little 
stock, and let it boil; in an hour's time add 
a glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of 
an hour, when it wilt be sufficimtly done; 
take off every particle of iat; strain it into 
4^ pan, and set it by Ant use. 

HAM LOAF. Soak a fine ham in cold 
water fw one or two days, according to its 
age; then put it into a saucepan just big 
■enough to hold it, widi no more water than 
«rill cover it, and a pint of white wine; let 
It boil, skimming it carefiilly, till done. 
When cold, take out the hocK and under 
bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the 
fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as 
4X)6Bible. Make a farce with the parings of 
the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs 
minced and pounded. Take a pan the size 
you wi^ to have your loaf, lay all over the 
inside a pretty firm paste, and then (hav- 
ing cut your ham into thin slices) fdaoe al- 
ternate lay^s of it and the &rce in tlie pan, 
antil it be quite fiitt. Put a crust over the 
top, which must unite with that in which 
tlK ham is; turn it over on a baking [^te, 
flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for 
an hoar and a half or two hours, according 
to its size. Serve it cold. 

HAM, MIirCEO, WITH FIIIEB E006. 
EggB. 



HAM OMELET. Take a slice ofhoiled 
ham, mince it as small as possible, and mix 
it with a dozen e^ beaten with a little veal 
gravy; fry it (keeping it of an equal thick- 
nem) in the usual manner. •> 

HAM, OR TONGUE POTTED. Grt 

a pound of the lean of cold boiled ham or 
tongue, and pound it in a mortar with a 
quarter of a pound of the iat, oar with firesh 
butter (in the propcMtibn of about two ounces 
to a pound), till it is a fine paste (some sea- 
son it by degrees with a little pounded mace 
or allspice) : put it close down in pots for 
^t purpose, and cover it with clarified 
butter, a quarter of an inch thick; let ic 
stand one night in a cool place. Send it 
up in the pot, or cut out in thin slices. 

HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA. 
Take a foie We8^)halia or Bayonne ham, 
pare and trim it of as ronad a form m possi- 
ble, take off the end bone, and remove 
the rind firom the knuckle; then laythe ham 
on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take 
it up with ease; soak it, if Decenary, and 
put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and 
oni(Mis, thyme, bay-leaf, and coriando-; pour 
a bottle d Madeira upon it, cover it with a 
clean cloth, and dose the pan as tight as 
possible, and let it remain twoi^-four hours; 
then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fiu- 
ten it with paste, so that it may be cooft- 
pletely enclosed, tie it on a spit, and put 
it to roast for tlnee hoars; then make a 
sBuJl hole in the paper, and pour in, by 
means of a fimnel, the Madeira wine, paste 
paper over the hole, and let it roast another 
hour. When done, take off the paper care- 
folly, so that none Gi the gravy may escape, 
mix it with some reduced upagnoU, giase 
the ham, and serve it. 

HAM TOAST. Cut some crumb of 
bread into thin slices; dien take an equal 
number of thin slices of ham, beat them well 
with a n^linff pin, and then soak them in 
warm water for about two hours ; take them 
out, dry them well, and put them into a 
saucepan with a little bacon, a slice of veal, 

tsd Imlf a glass of stock; let them boil for 
alf an hour, and then add half a glam of  
veal 6/ondL Fry your bi^ead to a nice col- 
or in some lard ; (ay it on a dish, and cm each 
piece hy a slice olf the ham ; pour die aaao6 
over them. Tdte particular care to cut 
the ham as nearly as pomible the site and* 
shape of tlie bread. 

HAM TO STEW. Soak the ham in 
lukewarm water for twelve boa^rs, drain it, 
and scrape the rind; put it into a stewpan 
with some slices of fot bacdn round the sides, 
four quarts of weak stock, a good dsal of 



HAR 



«r4 



HAR 



panley, o bonch of sweet herbs, six large 
onionii, four carroU, a little allspice and 
pepper, a pint of Madeira, and one of Port 
wine.' Cover the ham with slices of fat ba- 
con, and put over it a sheet of white paper ;. 
stew it eight hours, or ten if it be a very 
large Intn. Before serving, take off tiie 
rind, strain ihe sauce, skim it well, and 
boil it till reduced to a glaze, and pour it 
round the ham, or serve it with any other 
sauce that may be prefierred. 

HAM WITH MADEIRA. Soak io 
water for two hours a Bayonne, or any other 
fine ham, boil it for two hours, trim it quick- 
ly, and then put it into a stewpan, with thia 
slices of veal at the bottom ', add some car- 
rots and parsley, and season with spioesw 
Pour over the ham a pint of rich stock and 
a bottle of Madeira ; let it boil for two hours, 
strain and skim the &t off the sauce, 
which, with the ham, must be served quite 
hot. 

HARE. As soon as tbe cook receives a 
bare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe 
it well, put in a little pepper, and bang it 
up. When wanted for dressing, cut off 
the four legs at the first joint, raise the 
skin of the back, and diaw it over the- 
hind legs ; leave the tail whole, then draw 
the skin over the back, and slip out the four 
legs; cut it from the neck and head; skin 
the ears, and leave them on. Clean the 
vent. Cut the sinews under the hind legs ; 
brinff ihem forward ; run a skewer thro^rb 
one bind leg, the body, and another hind 
1^; dotlie same with the fore 1^[b; lay ihb. 
brad rather back ; put a skewer in at the 
moudi, throu^ the bade, of die liead and 
between the shoulders;, put in die stuffing, 
and tie it round widi a string, passing it 
over die 1^ to keep them in their places: 
the hare is then leady for roasting. See 
Hare RfHuied. 

HARE, JUGGED. Having skinned a 
hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and di- 
vide the back into three pieces ;. rub them 
well with fot bacon, and put them into a 
stewpan with the trimmings, allspice, mace, 
whote pepper, a small clove of garlic, two 
bay-leaves, three onions, parsl^, ti^nie, 
sweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and 
three gills of Pmt wine ; simmer the whole 
till three parts done ; thai take out the shoul- 
ders, 1^, and back ; put them into another 
stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a 
little flour and butter, stew than till quite 
done ; take off the fot, season with cayenne, 
salt, and lemon-juice, and serve the wbule 
m a deep dish. 

HARE ROASTED. Cut the skio fixm 



a hare that has been wel( soaked; pat it q9 
the spk and rob it well with Madeira, prick- 
ing it in various places that it may imbibe 
plenty of wine; cover it entirely with a 
paste, and roast it.- When done, take away 
the paste, rub it qMickly over with egg, 
sprinkle liread-cnimbs, and Inste it gently 
with buttor (stiH keepinz it turning before 
the fire) until a crust is tonaed over it and 
i< is of a nice brown colore dish it over 
some ttpagnoh with Madeira wise boiled 
ill it; two or three clow may be stuck into 
the knuckles if you think proper. 

HASHED HARE.. Cat np the haiv 
into pieces fit to help at table, and divide 
the jotnts of the kgSvand sboalders, and set 
them by ready. Pnt the trimmings and 
g^vy you have left, with half a pint of wa- 
ter (there should be a pint of liquor), and a 
table-«poonfiil of currant jellv, ii>to a cleanr 
stewpaa, and let it boil gfxiuy for a quarter 
of aa hour:, then strain it through a siere 
into a basin, and pour it back into the stew- 
pan; now flour the hare, put it into the 
gravy, and let it simmer very gsendy till the 
liare is warm (about twenty minutes) ; cul 
thestufl&ng into slices, and pat it into the 
hash to get w^rm, about five minutes before 
you serve it ; divide the head, and lay one 
half on eacb aide the dish.. 

HARICXDT BY WAY OF SOUP. 

Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces^ 
pat the scrag into a stewpan with a quart 
of water, four large carrots, and turnips;, 
boil il gently over a slow fire, till all the 
goodness be out of the meat; then bruis» 
the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. 
Pry six onions (sliced> in butter, and put 
the other part of tlie meal to the soup, and 
stew till the latter is toider; season witb 
pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a 
tureen. 

HARICOT MUTTON. Ckit die best 
end of a neck or loin of mutton, thaf^ 
has been kept till tender, into chops of 
equal thickness, one rib to each; trim off* 
some of the fot, and the lower aid of tlie 
chine bone, and scrape it clean, and lay 
them in a stewpan, with an omoe of butter ; 
set it over « smart fire ; if your fire is not 
sharp, the chops will be done before tb^ 
are cokHed ; the intention of firying them i» 
merely to give them a very li^t browning. 

While the chops are browning, peel and 
boil a couple of doxen of young button onion* 
in about three pints of water for about fifteen 
or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour off 
the liquor they were boiled in into the stew- 
pan with the chops: if that is not sufficient 
to cover them, add as much boiling water as 
will remove the scum as it rises,, and btt 



HAT 



95 



HER 



carefcS tfaey are not stewed too fiuit or too 
oiucfa ; so take out one of them with a fish- 
slice, and try it: wlien they are tender, 
wbidh will be in about an hour and a half, 
then pass the gravy throagh a sieve into a 
l»sin, set it in the open air thiu it mav get 
GoM, yon may then easily and conpietdy 
skim off the £it; in the meantime set the 
meatand vegetables ivy the lira to keep hot, 
and pour soom boiling water over the button 
onions to warn them. Have about six 
<Minoes of carrots, and eight ounces of tur- 
nips, peeled and cut into sUoes, or shaped 
into balls about as big as a nutmeg ; boil 
the carrots about half an hour, the turnips 
about a <|ttarter of an liour, and put them on 
a sieve to drain, and then put them round 
the dish, the last thinr. 

Thicken the gravy by putting an ounce of 
iMitter into a stewpan; when it is melted, 
«tir in as much flour as will stifien it; pour 
the gravy to it b^ degrees, stii* together till 
it boils; strain it througli a fine sieve or 
tamis into a slewpan, put in the cnrruts and 
turnips to get warm, and let it simmer 
^ntly while you dish up the meat; lay the 
chops round a dish, put the vegetables in the 
middle, and pour the thickened ciavy over. 
Some put in captfs, &c minoed glierkins, 
&c. 

RumpHSteaks, veal-cutlets, and beef^ails, 
make excellent dishes dressed in the 'like 
manner* 

HASH, <X>I.b. Mince a nice white 
piece of veaJ, wash and core some anchovies ; 
take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- 
bers, and a lemon; shred and mix d^m 
with the veal, and place it in a dish; lay 
round it slioes of veal, fillets of anchovies, 
pickled cucumbers sliced, wliole pickled 
oysters, mushrooms and capers; lettuces 
shred -small; pour in oil and vin^;ar, salt 
and pepper, and serve. 

HASHES, MADE DISHES, STEWS, 
RAGOUTS, SOUPS, TO WARM. Put 
what you have left into a deep bash-dish or 
tureen; when you want it, set this in a stew- 
pan of boiling water: let it stand till tlie 
contents are quite warm. 

HATTERED KIT. (1) Make two 
quaits of new milk scalding hot, and pour 
it quicklv upon four quarts of fresh-made 
butter milk, after which it must not be stir- 
red ; let it remain till cold and firm, then 
take off the top part, drain it in a hair sieve, 
and put it into a shape for half au hour. It 
is eMen with ci'eam, served in a separate 
dish. 

HATTERED KIT. (2) Put into the 
dish it is to be served iny-ooe-tbird of cream 



with two-diirds of butter-milk, add a litdi 
pounded loaf sugar, and beat it well togetb* 
er. Strew over it a little pounded cin- 
namon, and let it stand for three or fisor 
hours. 

HAWTHORN LIQUOR. The fiiD 
blossoms of the white thorn are to be picked 
dry and clean from the leaves and stalks, 
and as much put into a larse bottle as it wiD 
bold liglitly without pressing down; it is 
then to be filled up with French brandy, 
and allowed to stand two or three months, 
when it must be decanted ofi^ and sweetened 
widi clarified sugar, or with capillaira. 
Without tlie sweetening, it is an excellent 
seasoning lor puddii^ and custards. 

HEDGEHOG TO MAKE. Blanch 
two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to 
a paste in a mortar, moistening occasionally 
with Canary and orange-flower water ; beat 
the yolks oi twelve, and the whites of seven 
eggs with a pint of cream and some powder 
sugai*; put this «with the almond paste and 
hau* a pound of fresh bottei* into a saucepan, 
set it over a stove and keep it constantly 
stiiring till sufficiently firm to be moulded 
into Um! shape of a hedgehog: stick it full 
of Uanched almonds, cut loigthwise, into 
slips, and place il in a dish; beat u(f the 
yolks of four eggs, put tliem to a pint of 
cream (sweetened to the taste) ; stir them 
over a ^ow fira till hot, then pour it round 
tlie hedgehc^ and let it stand: when ookl, 
serve it. A good calf Woot jelly may be 
poOred round, instead of the cream, if pre- 
ferred. 

HERBS, A BUNCH OF SWEET, Is 
made up of parsley, sweet marjoram, winter 
savory, orange and lemon thyme ; the great- 
est proportion of parsley. 

HERBS, SWEET. These in cookeiy 
are parsley, cliibbol, rocambole, winter sa- 
vory, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, mint, borage, 
rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. 
Tlie relishing herbs or RaoigotU are tar- 
ragon, garden-cress, chervil, burnet, civet, 
and green mustard. 

HERBS TO DRY, SWEET AND 
SAVORY. It is very important to those 
wlio are not in the constant habit of attend- 
ing the markets to know when the various 
seasons commence for purchasing sweet 
herbs. 

All vegetables are in the highest stat« 
of perfection, and fullest of juice and flavor, 
just before they begin to flower: the first 
and last crop have neither the fine flavor, 
nor the^Mrfiime of those which are jgathered 
in the height of the season; that is, when 



HEK 



96 



HOG 



t&e greater part of the crop of each specie* 
is ripe. 

Take care they are gathered on a dry 
da.j, by which means th^ will liave a bet- 
ter color when dried. Cleanse your herbs 
well fi'om dut and dust ; cut off the roots ; 
separate the banches into smaller ones, and 
diy them by the heat of a stove, or in a 
Dutch oven before a common fire, in sudi 
quantities at a time, that the process may be 
speedily finished^ t. e. 'Kill 'em quick,' 
says a great botanist; by this means their 
flavor will be best presenred: there can be 
no doubt of the propriety of dryin|^ herbs, 
fcc. hastily by the aid of artificial heat, 
rather than by the heat of the sun. In the 
application of artificial heat, the only cau- 
tion requisite' is to avoid burning ; and of 
this a sufficient test is afforded hjf the pres- 
ervation of the cx>lor. The common cus- 
tom is, when they are perfectly dried to put 
them in bags, and lay them in a drv place; 
but the best way to pteaerve the flavor of 
aromatic plants is to pick off the leaves as 
soon as they are dried, and to' pound them, 
and put them through a hair sieve, and keep 
them in well-stopped bottles. The common 
custom^is to put them into paper bags, and 
lay them on a shelf in the kitchen, exposed 
to all the fumes, steam, and smoke, &c.: 
thus they soon lost their flavor. 

N. B. Herbs nicely dried are a very ac- 
ceptable substitute when fi^esh ones cannot 
be got; but, however carefully dried, the 
flavor and fragrance of the firesn herbs are 
incomparaUy finer. 

HERRINGS. There are three sorts of 
herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red her- 
rings. Tliev are emptied and cleaned like 
any other fish ; when fresh, they are broiled, 
and served with melted butter, white sauce, 
&c. 

The salted herring p*VHild be soaked in 
cold water before it is cooked ; tliis is also 
broiled; sometimes, however, it is cut in 
pieces, and eaten raw. 

The red lierring is split down the back, 
the head and tail are cut off, and the fish 
broiled like the others. 

They may also be dressed as follows: 
when they Have lain in cold water a suffi- 
cient time, soak them for two hoins in milk, 
then split them down the bccck ; then have 
ready some melted butter, in which has been 
mixed basil and bay-leaf, minced small, the 
yolks of two eggs, pepper and nutmeg ; rub 
the herrings well with this, bread them; 
broil them over a gentle fire, and serve with 
lemon-juice. 

The best red herrings are full of roe, 
are firm and lai^, and have a yellow 



Of the frsih herring ^ soaks are bright 



if good, die eyes are fiiil, and the giSi rad> 
Ihe fish also shoukl be stiff. 

HERRINGS, BOILED. Scale, asd 
otherwise prepare the herrings in the usaa« 
way ; dry them well, and mb them over witb 
a litlie sak and vinegar ; skewer dieir taib 
in their moothsy lay uiem on a fish-plate, and 
put them into boiKaff water; in ten (^ 
twelve minutes take mem out, drain them, 
lay them on the disfa> the heads towards tlie 
middle ; serve them with melted butter and 
parsley, and garnish with 



HERRINGS, RED. Pkin brofl them, 
or poor over SMoe beer made hot, and when 
it is cold drain and wipe them dry; heat 
them thoroughly, and rub over a little butter, 
and iqprinkle them with pepper. 

HERRINGS TO BAKE. They most 
be perfecth fresh, and well cleaaed, but not 
wa^ied ; the heads and fos cot off, and the 
bones cut out ; strew over them pepper, sah, 
and a slice of <mioa minced very finely, to 
each; roll them up tight; pack them into a 
jar, and pour over in the proportion of a 
pint of vinegar to two of water, with half 
an ounce of whole black pepper; tie over 
the jar a piece of bladder or paper, and 
bake them in an oven for an hour. Taka 
off the cover when they are cold, and poui 
over a little cold vinegar, and tie them up. 

HERRINGS TO FRY. Scrape off 
the scales; cut off the fins; draw out the 
gut, keeping in the roes and meks; wipe 
them in a clean ck>th; di^edge tliem with 
flour, and fiy them in boiling dripping; put 
them before the fhe to drain and keep hot. 
Sauces; — melted butter, and parsley and 
butter. When herrings are to be broiled, 
they are prepared in the same manner, and 
done upon the gridiron. They must not be 
washea. 

HIPPOCRAS. Take one ounce of 
cinnamon, two dradims of ginger, two pen- 
ny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, and galangal 
a penny-weight of «u^. Pound tliese to- 
gether well, and infiise them in a pint of red 
or white wine, and a pint of malmsey ; to 
this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. 
These proportions will make a quart of 
the liquor. 

HOG'S HEAD. Put a head into some 
pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently fone, 
take it out and boil it till the bones wfll 
oome out with ease; then skin, bone, and 
chop the meat, whilst hot; seescm it with 
pepper (black and while), raitmeff, and salt, 
if necessary; lay part of the SLin at the 
bottom of a pottuig pan, press In the meat. 



J 



HUIf 



97 



tec 



It Willi the rwainder of tbe akin, pot 
fta a weight, and let it stand till quite oo!d. 
Then torn it out Boil the liquor it wae 
dreased in with aone vinegar, skim it well, 
and when cold put the he«l into it. 

HONEY TO CLARIFY.— M. Fou- 
Hvm** MXTHOO. Tahe six poiind« of 
hooey, a pound and three-quarlera of water, 
f wo ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, 
five oiuices of coal, (pulverised) washed, and 
well dried), the %i4utes of three eggs beaten 
in three ounoes of water, fcr each pouad of 
honey. 

Put the honey* water, chalk, and eg^pi, 
into a oofn^ vessel, capiible of boiamf^ 



about pne-chird more than the above quanti- 
ties ; let them boil fiur two minutes, throw 
in the coal, mixing it witli a spoon, and 
continue the boiling two minutes longer; 
then take the saucepan from the fire, and 
'let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that 
the liquor may cool; then take a new sieve 
<whiai must be well washed, or it will im- 
part a disagreeable taste), pass the honey 
through it, taking care to filter the first 
drops twice, as they ffenerally cany with 
diem some portion of the coal. 

The sirup which still adheres to the coal, 
and other materials, may be separated as 
fellows: pour boiling water on them until 
they no longer retain any sweetness; tlien 
put these different waters together, set them 
over a lar^ fire to evaporate, till the sirup 
only remains. This sirup ctrntracts the fla- 
vor of bailev sugar, and must not be added 
to the clarified honey. 

HORSERADISH POWDER. The 
time to make tliis is during November and 
December; slice it the thickness of a shil- 
ling, and lay it to dry very gradually in a 
Dutch oven (a strong heat soon evaporates 
its fiav<Nr) ; when dxy enough, pound it and 
bottle it. 

HOT PICKLE. Boil, in two quarts of 
vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two 
ounces of sbaljots or garlic, and two of gin- 
ger, one ounce of pepper, one of yellow mus- 
tard seed, and a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne ; put into a jar that will hold fixir 
quarts, two ounoes of all^ioe, and pour on 
it tlie hot pickle. When cold, put in any 
fresh-gathered vegetables or fruit, such as 
asparagus, cauliflower, French beans, radish 
pods, unripe apples, gooseberries, currants, 
which may be added as the op|x>rtunitv of- 
^rs, and, as the pickle wastes, it should be 
replenished with the same mixture^ 

H-BONE OF BEEF. See Bei^, 

^UNGjBJSEF. SeeBetf. 



HUNTING BEEF. See Be^. 
HUNTER'S HE. See IrttA SU^ 



L 



ICE. Soibeti^ses or moidds lor cream 
or fiuit-ices, are made of two sorts of ma- 
terials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the 
latter is the best, the substance to be iced 
congealing more gradually in it than in the 
fiiruier; an object much to be desired, af 
wlien the ice is formed too quickly, it is verv 
apt to be rou^, and (iill of lumps like hail, 
especially if it be not well worked with the 
spatula ; the otlier utensils necessary for this 
operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at 
tlie bottom, and a wooden spatula about 
nine inches long; being so far provided, fill 
the pail with pounded ice, over which spread 
fiwr handfuls of salt ; tlien having filled the 
sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c. ; put 
on the cover, and immerse it in the centre 
of the ice-pail; taking care the ice touches 
the mould in all parts ; throw in two more 
handfuls of salt, and leave il a quarter of aa 
hour; then take tlie cover from the moulOf 
and with the spatula stir the contents up to- 
gether, so that those parts which touch the 
sides of tlie mould, and consequently ctmgeal 
first, may be mixed willi tlie liquid in the 
middle ; work this about for seven or eight 
minutes ; cover the mouki, take the pail by 
tlie ears, and shake it round and round far 
a quaiter of an hour ; open the moidd a sea- 
ond time, and stir as before; continue these 
operations alternately, until the cream, or 
whatever it may be, is entirely coneealed, 
and perfectly smooth, and free fixmi lumps. 
Take care to let out the water, which wiQ 
collect at the bottom of the pail, by means 
<^ tlie cork, and press the ice close to the 
sorbetiere with tlie spatula. 

When the cream is iced, take it firom the 
pail, dip the mould in warm water, but not 
to let it remain an instant; dry it quickly, 
turn it out, and serve it as soon as poesible. 

All sorts of ices are finished in this man- 
ner ; the {reparation of the articles of which 
they are composed, constitutes the only dif- 
ference between them. 

ICE, A VERY LARGE CAKE. Beat 
the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then, by 
degrees, beat a pound of doubfe-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawa sieve ; mix these 
well in a deep earthen pan; add orange- 
flower water, and a piece of fi'esh lemon- 
peel; do not use more of the oranse-flower 
urater than is just sufficient to flavor it. 
Whisk it for three hours till the mixture m 
thick and whi^; theo, wit|i ii min broad 



ICI 



98 



IRI 



bit of board, spread it all over the top and 
sides, and set it in a cool oveiiy and an hour 
will luUrden it. 

ICaE FOR ICING (HOW to pre- 
pare). Take a few pounds of ice, break 
it almost to powder, and throw in among it 
a large handful and a half of salt; you must 
prepare in the coolest part dC the house, that 
as little of the warm air as possible may 
come. The ice and salt being in a bucket, 
put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it ; 
immerse it in the ice, and draw that round 
the pot, so that it may touch every part. In 
a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and 
stir it weU, removing the parts that ice round 
the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or 
water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, 
and move the whole in the ice, as you can- 
not use a spoon to diat withcNit tumger of 
waste. There should be holes in the Ixick- 
et» to let the ice off as it thaws. 

ICING FOR CAKES. For a large 
cake, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, 
put it into a mortar, with four spoonfiils of 
rose water, and the whites of two eggs, 
beaten and strained, whisk it well, and 
when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather 
in the icing, and cover the cake well ; set it 
in the oven to harden, but do not let it re- 
main long enough to discolor. Keep the 
cake in a dry place. 

laNG FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk 
of an c^ and some melted butter well toge- 
ibec; wash the tarts with a feather, and 
sift sugar over as you put them into the 
oven; or beat white of e^, wash the paste, 
and sift wliite sugar. 

ICING, FOR TWELFTH OR BRIDE 

CAKE. Take one pound of double-refined 
sugar, pounded and sifted through a lawn 
sieve ; put into & pan quite fi'ee fi'om grease ; 
break in the whites of six eggs, and as much 
powder blue as will lie on a sixpence ; beat 
it well with a spattle for ten minutes ; then 
squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and beat it 
till it becomes thick and transparent. Set 
the cake you intend to ice jn an oven or" 
warm place five minutes; then spread over 
the top and sides with the mixture as smooth 
as possible. If for a wedding cake only, 
plam ice it; if for a twelfth csSne, ornament 
it with ^un paste, or feiu^ articles of any 
description. A sood twelfth cake, not bak- 
ed two much, and kept in a cool dry place, 
will retain its moisture and eat well, if 
twelve months old, 

ICING FOR FRUIT TARTS. PUFFS, 

OB PASTRY. Beat up in a half-pint mi^ 
the white of two eggs to a solid froth; lay 



some on the middfe of the pie with a posCv* 
brush; sift over plenty of pounded sugar, and 
press it down with the hand, wash out the 
brush, and splarii by degrees with water tiH 
the sugar is dissolved, and put it in the oven 
for ten minutes, and serve it t^ cold. 

IMPERIAL. Put two ounces of creana 
of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lem- 
ons, into a stone jar, pour on them seven 
quarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. 
Whan cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, strain 
it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in bottling, 
half a pint to the whole quanti^'. 

INDIA PICKLE. (1) Takeone pound of 
ginger, put it into a pan with salt and wa- 
ter, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, 
and cut it into thin sfices; puf it into a pan 
with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay 
till all the following ingredients are prepar- 
ed ; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in 
salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, 
then let it lay in salt for another three days, 
then take it out and let it lay in the sun for 
another, till half dry; an ounce of long pep- 
per, an ounce of capsicum, salted and laid 
in the sun for three days, a pint of black 
mustard-seed bruised, half an ounce of tur- 
meric, beat very small ; put all these ingre- 
dients together m a jar, then put in as much 
viue^, as, when the cabbage, or whatever 
you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vine* 
gar win rise to the top of tlie jar. Tlien 
take cabbage, cauliflower, or wnatever you 
choose to pickle, and cut tliem into small 
pieces, throw a good handful of salt over 
them, and set them in the sun (when it is 
very hot) for three da}-^ drain the water 
fi'om them everv day, and finesh salt them 
again, turning the leaves till thev are dry, 
then put them into the pickle, being partic- 
ular that diey are completely covered with 
the vinegar ; tie it up close, let it stand a 
fortniglit, fi[ll it again with more vinegar, 
carefiuly watch it fi'om time to time, to fill 
it up with vinegar, as it will waste vjry fest. 



INDIA PICKLE. (2) One gallon of vin- 
egar, one poimd of garlic, a quarter of a 
pound of long pepper split, half a pound of 
flour of mustard, one pound of ginger scrap- 
ed, and split, and two ounces of (urmewc. 
When you have prepared the spice, and put 
it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot 
over it, and stir it every day for a week. 
Then put in j^ur cabbage, cauliflower, or 
whatever you mtend to pickle. 

INDIAN CURRY. See Curry. 

IRISH PUFFS. Add to five well- 
beatni yolks and two whites of Qggs, a \9rg9 
table-spooofiil of flour, no* quite $r ooBfii^ of 



ISI 



99 



JAM 



welled batter, and half a lea^poonfbi of mII; 
kxat it all well for ten minotcs, and add bak' 
a pint of oraam; bake it in buttered tea« 
cope ; turn them out, and serve then with a 
sweet sauce. 

IRISH ROCK. Blanch a pound of 
■aweet and an ounce of bitter almonds, pick 
out a few of the sweet ahnonds, and cut 
than like straws, and blanoh tb^ in rose 
water; pound the rest in a mortar with a 
tadble-spocxifbl of brandv, four ounces of 
pounded and aifted loaf sugar, and half a 
pound of salt butt^ well washed; pound 
them till the mass looks very white, and set 
it in a cool place to stifl^; then dip two 
'table-epoons into cold water, and with them 
form the paste, as much like an e^ as pos- 
sible ; place in the bottom of a guuis dish, a 
jnnall plate or saucer tamed, and lay the 
rock high up; stick over it the cut almonds 
with ^preen sweetmeats, and ornament with 
a sprig of myrtle. 

IRISH STEW, OR HUNTER'S Pie! 

Take part of a neck of mutton, cut it into 
chops, season it well, put it into a stewpan, 
let It brase for half an hour, take two dooen 
of potatoes, boil them, mash them, and sea- 
son them, butter your mould, and line it with 
the potatoessput in the mutton, bake it for 
half an hour, then it wtU be done, cut a hole 
in the top, and add some good gravy to it. 

IRISH STEW. Take five thick mut- 
ton chops, or two pounds off the neck or 
Joins; two pounds of potatoes; peel them, 
and cut them in halves; mx onions, or hatf 
a pound of onions i peel and slice them also: 
first put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of 
jour stewpan, then a coqple of chops and 
some of the oni(His ; thou again potatoes, and 
so on, till the pan is quite full; a small 
apoonful of white pepper, and about one 
and a half of salt, and three gills of broth or 

O, and two tea-spoonfols of mushroom 
up ; cover all very close in, so as to 
|Mnevent the steam iirom getting out, and let 
them stew for an hour and a half on a voy 
alow fire. A small slice of bam is a great 
addition to this dish. The cook will be the 
best judge when it is done, as a great deal 
depends on the fire you have. Great care 
must be taken not to let it bum, and that it 
^oes not do too 6sL 

ISINGLASS, TO CLARIFY. Take 
an ounce and quarto: of the best isinglass, 
cut it into small pieces, and wash them sev- 
firal tiroes in warm water. Put the isinglass 
into a preserving pan, with five glasses of 
filtei'ed water, set it on the fire, and, as soon 
as it boils, placQ it at the side of the stove, 
JD as to keep up the boiling; take off the 



aeom directly it rises; and wImd the whole 
is reduced to three-quartefs, strain it throush 
a doth into a basin for use. Some add, la 
clarifying isinglass, lemon-peel, to remove 
its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglasi 
ought to have no flavor, and as the lemoo- 
peel is certain to nve a yellow tinge to tint* 
It is much better fed out. 

fTAUAN CHEESE. Mix with near- 
ly hah' a pound of pounded loaf sugar, the 
juice of three lanons, two table<«poonfii]s 
of white wine, and a (juart of cream; beat 
it with a whisk till quite thick, which may 
be in half an hour; put a bit of auislin into 
a hair sieve, and pour in the cream. In 
twelve hours turn it out, and garnish it vrith 
flowers. It aiay be put into a tin shape, 
with holes in it. 

ITAUAN MACAROONS. Take one 
pound of Valentia or Jordan almonds, bkmcb- 
ed, pound them quite fine with the whiles 
of four egffs; add t«ro pounds and a half of 
sifked lou sugar, and rob them well toeetb- 
er with the pestle; put in by degrees about 
ten or eleven more whites, wowing then 
well as you put them in ; but the best crite- 
rion to go t>y in tiytng their lightness is to 
bake one or two, and if you find them heavy, 
put one or two more whites; put the mix- 
Vare into a biscuit-fimnd, and lav them out 
on wafer-paper^ in pieces about the size of a 
small walnut, having ready about two ounces 
of blanched and dry almonds cut into slips, 
put three or fovur pieoes on each,^and bake 
them on wires, or a baking-plate, in a slow 
oven. Ofrs. — ^Ahnonds should be bian d ied 
and dried gradually two or three days "be- 
fore they are used, fay which means diey 
will work much better, and where large 
quantities are used, it is advised to grind 
them in a mill provided for that purpoae. 



J. 



JAM, APRICOT. (1) Weigh equal 
quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of ap- 
ricots; pare and cut them quite small; as 
th^ are doqe, strew over half of the sugar. 
The following day boil the remainder, and 
add the apricots ; stir it till it boils, take 
off the scum, and when perfectly clear, add 
part of the kernels blanched, and boil it 
two or three minutes. 

JAM, APRICOT. (2) Alkm equal 
proportions of pounded knf sugar and (^ 
apricots; pare, and cut them small; as they 
are done, strew part of the sugar over them, 
and put the parings into cold water. Break 
the stones, blanch and pound the ke m elst . 



JAM 



100 



Jtt 



irMA, wi± the thcfUd and parfnn, b6ll tin { 
llalf the quantity of water is reduoed, and [ 
there te a sufficiency of the liquor, when 
•trained^ to aVIow three or ibnr table-spocm- 
ftils to a pound of apricots ; put it, with the 
sugar and fmk, into a preserving pan ; mash, 
and take off the scani ; boil it quickly, till 
transparent. 

JAM, APIHCOT, OR ANT t»LUM. 
After taking away the stones fipom the apri- 
cots, and cutting out iwy blemishes they 
tnay liave ; put fhem over a sfew fire, in a 
clean stewpan, with half a pint of water ; 
when scalded, rub them thrm^k a hair 
iifeve: to evory pound of pulp put one pound 
of sifted loaf sogar f put it into a presei-vins- 
pair o*ver a brisk fire, and when it boils 
skim it well, and throw in the kernels of 
tlie apricots, and half an ounce of bitter al- 
iMMids, blanched; bofl it a quarter of an 
hour li»t, and stirring it all die time ; re- 
mmit it fix>m tlie fire, and fill it into pots, 
ted cover thea^ a» diKteted in Raspberry 
Jam. N. B. — Green gages or plums may 
be done in the satioe way, (Knitting the ker- 
•eb or almonds. 

JAM, BLACK CtTRRANf. Gather 
your cumuiti on a dry day, when they are 
Ifdl ripe, pick iAi6A bcm the stalks, ^'ash 
them well In a bairin, and to every poond 
of eurrants, pat a pcmnd of dduble refined 
noffoff beaten and sifted; put them kito a 
preserving ^,.boil them half an hour, skim, 
arid keep them stirring all the time: then 
]Mit tllem into pdt&: When cokl, put brandy 
paper vter, aiid tie while paper over all. 

JAM, CHERRY. Having stoned and 
boited dhree pounds of fihe cherries, bruise 
tiien^, ahd let the juice nin troHa them ; then 
boil Wgether lialf a (knund of red currant 
juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, pot 
die clierries into these whilst they are boil- 
ing,, and strew on diem three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very 
fiust for half an hour, and then put it into 
pom. What cokl pat on bran^ papers. 

JAM, GOOSEBfERRY. Take what 
quantity you plba^ of red, rouj^, ripe goose- 
bsnriei; take half tbeiir quantity of lump su- 
sarj bi^aft tlieia Well, and boif them to- 
MMr hie hdlf an llotir, or more if necessa- 
fy. Put it into pots. Bad cover with paper. 

JAM, Goose BE RRT, FOR Pudi>ings. 
ABdw eqiNi weight of the red rough goose- 
Writt, and of gbod brown sugar ; gather 
tfie fruit apen a dry day ; top and tail them, 
and pot a layer suternately of gooseberrielB 
and df stear into a ^ireserving pan ; shake 
k fiN9|*a%, mtXL it W^i, and boU it tia 



the siriip jellies, which may be aseereaitNSA 
by cooling a little in a saucer. Black and 
red enrrants taiy be done in this way for 
coramcHinse^ 

JAM, PEACH. Gatiier the peaches 
when qnite ripe, peel and stone them, put 
them into a preservtng-pan, and mash tbeib 
over the fire till hot; rub them through a 
sieve, and add to a pound of pulp the same 
weight of pounded k>af sugar, and half ai» 
ounce of bitter almonds, btanched tuid pound* 
ed ; let it boil ten or tweUre nkinutes, stb 
and skim it well.- 

JAM, RASPBERRY. Weigh equal 
proportions of pounded k>8f sugar and of 
raspberries; put ^e fitut mtb a preserving- 
pan, and with a silver spoon bruise and 
mash it well ; let boil six minutes ; add the 
sugar, and stir it wett with the fruit; when 
it boils, skim it, and boil it ftnr fifteen min- 
utes. 

JAM, STRAWBERRY. Gather the 
scarlet strawberries when perfect ripe, 
bruise diem well, and add the juice of other 
strawberries ; take an eqoa! weight of lump> 
sugar, pound and «ift it, stir it thoroughijjr 
into die firuit, msd set it on a sbw fire; do1> 
it tweaty minutes, taking off the dcnm as it 
rises ; pour it into glafises, or jars, and wheD 
eok), nt tbett dewn. 

JAM, WHITE OR RED CURRANT. 
Pick the finit very nicely, and altow an 
equal quantity of finely-pounded loafsi:^ar; 
put a layer of each alternately into a preserv- 
mg pan, and boil for tea nunUtes; or the| 
may be boiled the same length of time ii» 
sugar previously clarified and boiled can^ 
high. 

JAUNE MANGE. Boi) an^ ounce of 
nstnglass in three-quarters of a pint of water 
till melted ; strain it, then add the juice of 
two SeviHe oranges, a quarter of a pint of 
whnte wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten 
and strained; suj^ar according to taste; stir 
it ow&r a gentle m-e tiff it just ooils up: whett 
cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if 
there i^ukl happen to be any segment, not 
te poor it in.. 

JELLY. To a quart of the stock jt^ 
put half a pound of loaf sugar peunded, a 
stick or two of cinnamon brdien into ahalt 
bits, the peel of a lemon, a pint of curranl 
wine, and one of Sherry or Teneriffe, and the 
beaten whites of five egg^ ; put it ail into 4 
nicely-cTeaned sancepan, stir it gentty till h 
boils, and boil it for three or four ininutes. 
Pour it into a jelly-'bag, with a basin or mad^ 
phioed underniriMh; rob it intimftdiaiey 



i£L 



101 



JEL 



ffaroQI^ the bag ^'tP'^ i^i^ •nother buin, 
■and repeat this ' tiU it begun to drop. It 
will then be as trampareot as poBsible, and 
may be put into moakb or gl aaeco . When 
all has apparently dripped, pour about a 
.pint of boiling water into the bag, whi<^h 
wiD produce a little thin jelly fit to drink; 
the Bteuid with the jelly*bag should be pIac<J 
ed near to the fire; Sherry alone, or Tene- 
rii&, may be used. The jelly may be |)ut 
into quart bottles corked tightly, which will 
makjB it keep good ibr some weeks ; place 
the bottle in warm water when it is requir- 
ed for use. 

JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a 
lai'ge shape, put to the prepared stock' or 
Jelly, more than half a bottle of strong ale 
or porter, a pound of loaf sufar, the peel of 
one, and the juice of four Wge lemons, a 
«tick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of 
eight eggs ; put it all into a saucepan, stir 
it gently ; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and 
pour it into a jelly-bag till it nix» perfectly 
clear. 

JELLY, APPLE. (1) Pare, core, and 
cut thirteen good apples into small bits; as 
they are cut, throw them into two quarts 
of cold water; boil them in this, with the 
peel of a lemon, till the substance is ex- 
tracted, and nearly half the liquor wasted; 
drain them through a hair sieve, and to a 
pint of the liquid add one pound of loaf su- 
gar pounded, the juice of one lemon, and the 
beaten whites of one or f wo eggs ; put it into 
a saucepan, stir it till it boib, take off the 
scum, and let it boil till clear, and then pour 
it into a mould. 

JELLY, APPLE. (2) Pare and mince 
three dozen of juicy acid apples, put them 
into a pan, cover them with water, and boil 
them till vely soft; strain them through a 
thin cloth or nannel bag; allow a pound of 
loaf sugar to a pint of juice ; clarify and 
boil it; add the apple juice, with the grated 
peel and juice of six lemons; boil it for 
twenty minutes ; take oif the sciun as it rises. 

JELLY, AI^PLE. (3) Pare and cut 
into slices eighteen large acid apples ; boil 
them in as much water as will cover them ; 
when quite soft, dip a coarse cloth into hot 
water, wring it dry, and strain the apples 
through it; to &ich pint of juice allow four- 
teen ounces of fine loaf sugar, clarify it, and 
add, with the arale juice, the peel of a lar^ 
Wmon ; lK>il it till it jellies, which may be m 
twenty minutes; pick out the lemon peel, 
and immediately put it into jars. 

JELLY, APRICOl^. Take eighteen fine 
apricots, let them be of a nice red color, 

9* 



■tone tfaem, and eut them in pieOM into MOta 
simp, (usualW made with twelve ounces of 
sugar, but tor apricot jelly it should be 
rather more liquid tham for other jellies.) 
When the firuit is done put it into a napkin* 
to express out all the juice you possibly can ; 
which ;^ou muit add to the sirup in which 
the apricots have been done, and which haa 
been previously strained throush a silk sieve, 
and after having mixed with it a proper 
quantity of isingbss to thicken it, finish tht 
same as all other jellies. 

JELLY, ARROW-ROOT. Steep for 
some hours, in two table-spoonftib of water, 
the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter 
almonds pounded ; strain, and mix it with 
three tabie-spoonfols of arrow-root, the sama 
quantity of lemon-juice, and one of brandy; 
sweeten, and stir it over the fire till quits 
thick, and when quito cold, put it into j^ 



JELLY, BARBERRY. (1) Pick a 
pint of barberries, and put them into a stew- 

en with boiling water, cover it close and 
it stand till nearly cold. Set on the fire 
some clarified sugar with a little water, 
(making a quart toeether;) when it begins 
to boil, skim it well, put in the barberries, 
let them boil an hour ; squeeze the juice of 
thi^ lemons through a sieve into a basin, to 
this, pass the liquor from the barberries, and 
then the isinglass. 

JELLY, BARBERRY. (2) Take some 
very ripe barberries (what quantity yoa 
please) and before you seed them take two 
thirds of their weight in sugar. Boil your 
sugar, then put your barben'ies into it, and 
(rive the whole a few boilings, then pass it 
mrough a silk sieve into a pan, pressing the 
barberries with a spoon to extract as much 
juice as possible from them ; this done, put it 
again over the fire, and when you perceive 
it b^ns to form the scum, take it ofif and 
pour it into pots. 

JELLY, BREAD FOR AN INVALID. 
Cut the crum of a penny roll into thin slices, 
and toast them equally of a pale brown; boil 
them gently in a quart of water till it will 
jelly, which may be known by putting a 
little in a spoon to cool ; strain it upon a 
bit of lemon-peel, and sweeten it with sugar* 
A little wine may be addled. 

JELLY BROTH. See Broth. 

JELLY, CALF'S FEET. (1) Take 
four feet, slit them in two, take away 
the iat firom between the claws, wash them 
well m lukewarm water; then put them m 
a large stewpan, and cover them with 



JtL 



102 



StL 



#fiert this ISqnor bdib, Bkim it weB^ ani! teC 
It boil gently sfat or Bevea fioven, that it may 
be reduceil to about two quarts ; then strain 
h throu^ a sieve, and skim off all the oily 
subsft&Qoe whicli is on tbe sur&ce of the 
fiquor. 

if you are not in a btttry, it is better to 
boil toe ealf *s feet the day before you make 
the jeffy; as whto the liquor is cold, (be 
oily part being at the top, and the other be- 
hig firm, with pieces of kitchen paper appli- 
ed to it, you may remove every particfe of 
the oily substance, without wasting any of 
the Kquor. 

Put the liciuor m a stewpan to melt, with 
a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lem- 
ons, the juice of six, six whites and shells of 
^S8 beat together, and a bottle of Sherry or 
Madeira ; whisk the whofe together until it is 
on the boil ; tlien put it by the side of the 
stove, and let it sinmier a quarter of an 
hour; strain it through a jelly-bag: what is 
strained first must be poured into the bag 
again, until it is as bright and as clear as 
rock-water ; then put the jelly in moulds, to 
be cold and firm : if the weather is too warm, 
it requires some ice. 

Wben it is wished to be very Atiff, half an 
ounce of isinglass may be added when the 
wine is put in. 

It may be flavored by the juice of various 
fluits, spices, &c. and colored with saf- 
fron, cochineal, red beet juice, spinage juice, 
claret, &c. ; and it is sometimes made with 
cherry brandy, or no^^eau rouge, or Curacoa, 
or essence oipuncii, instead of wine. 

JELLY, CALF»S FEET. (2> Take 

the fat and bones fi^m eight feet, and soak 
them in water for three or four hours} 
then boil them in six quarts of water, skim- 
ming often ; wlien reduced to a third, strain 
and set it by to cool ; when cold, take every 
particle of tat from the top, and remove 
whatever may have settled at the bottom. 
Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 
two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, 
and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up 
the whites of twelve e^ with three pounds 
of fine suear, mix these with the jelly, boil it 
gently, adding the juice of two lemons, and 
Oien strain it for use. 

JELLY, CHERRY. Take the stones 
aikd stalks from two pounds of fine clear 
ripe cherries ; mix them with a quarter of 
a pound of red currants, from which the 
seeds have been extracted; express the 
juice fit>m these fruits, fiker and mix it with 
mree-qnarters of a pound of clarifled sugar, 
and one ounce of isibglass. Finish the sanfe 
at Barberry jetty. 

JELLY OF CDK&ANTB, GftAFE, 



RASPBERRY, Are aH made |M«enelV 
in the same manner. When the firuit is dm 
ripe, gather it on a dry day: as toon as if 
is nicely picked, put it into a ^r, add cover 
it down very ck>se« 

Set the jar in a saooepan about ihrev 
parts filled with cold water; put it on a gen- 
tle fire, and let it simmer for about half an 
hour. Take the pan finom the fire, and pour 
the contents of the jar into a jelly-bag: pa* 
the juice throng a second time; do not 
squeeze the bag. 

To eacli pint of juice add a pewid and s 
half of very good knnp sugar pounded ; when 
it is dissolved, put it into a preserving-pan ; 
set It on the fire, and boil ^tly^ stirring 
and skimming it the whole time (about thir- 
ty or forty minutes), t. e. till no more scum 
rises, and it is perfectly clear and finet 
poor it while warm into pots; and when 
cold, cover them with paper wetted m 
brandy. 

Half a pint of this jeVy, dissolved in ft 
pint of brandy or vinesar, will give you es^- 
cellent currant or raspbory brandy or yinek 
gar. 

Obe. — Jellies from otber fruits are made 
in the same way, and cannot be preseryedi 
in perfection without plenty of gooa sugar. 

Those who wish jeHy to turn out very stiiT, 
dissolve isinglass in a little water, strain 
throush a sieve, and add it in the proportion 
of haff an ounce to a pint of juice, and pot 
it in with the sugar. 

The best way is the cheapest. Jeflite 
made with two small a proporti<Mi of sugar, 
rer|uire boiling so long; Aere is muck more 
waste of juice and flavor by evaporation than 
the due quanti^ of sugar costs ; and thej 
neither look nor taste ludf so well. 

JELLY, DAMSON. To eight poondb 
of damsons, put eight pounds of fine susar, 
and half a pint of water ; boil them for half 
an hour over a gentle fire, till the skine 
break ; then take them ofiT, and set dmn by 
for an hour; set them on the fire again, for 
half an hour more; set them by again for 
the same time; do so the third time; while 
they stand off the fire, put a weight tipoo 
them to keep them imder the einip«/ The 
last time, you must boil them till you per- 
ceive they are of a very high color in the 
part where the skin is broken; then take 
them off, set diem by to cool, and When tfiey 
are cold, drain off the sirup, and make the 
jelly in the following manner >-Boil a<|uan- 
tit^ of green apples, green gooeeberries^ and 
auince cores, fo a HMoh ; then strain tliem 
through a hair sieve. Take an eq^ quan- 
tity of this jelly and the former sirnp', and 
bod than over a sentle fire together till tbej 
j^; skim it wdl, tM while it !• hot, pm 
It mtogfaflBB or pott* 



J£L 



103 



J£L 



JELLY FOR ENTREMETS. Harts- 
honr, calTs feet, and isingfciM, are the uraal 
materiab need to ooagulate sweet jellies ; of 
these three, the latter is the best, as, when 
properly clartiied, (ibr which see isinrlass), 
n n the dearest, and has. no unpfeaHuit 
flavor. 

JELLY FRUIT. Claris half a poond 
of sugar, but the instant beRyre it is quite 
clear, put in a small quantiw of cochineal ; 
then strain, and mix with it an ounce of 
clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lem- 
cos; add to this the fitiit of which your iel- 
)y is to be compoeed; stir tfiem to^eUier 
lightly, pour the jelly into a mould quickly, 
and put the mould on ice. Observe that the 
siwar and isinglass should be no more than 
lukewarm ivhen mixed togeiher. These 
jellies mav be made of any kind of fniit, or 
the grated rinds of lemon, orange, or ce- 
drats. 

JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take an 
ounce of rice, die same of sago, pearl4Nirlcy, 
hartdiom-sliavin^, and eringo root; sim- 
mer with three pmts of water, till reduced 
to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be 
a jelly ; when you use it, serve dissolved in 
wine, milk, or broth. 

JELLY, GRAPE. Take out the stones, 
then mash the grapes with your hands, (they 
most be ripe) then squeeze' them through a 
cloth to extract all the juice from them, and 
buil and finish the same as currant jelly. 
Use half a pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit. 

JELLY, HARTSHORN. Boil half a 
pound of hartshorn shavingB for three houra 
nnd a half in four pints and a half of water; 
strain it through a bit of itauslin, and stir in- 
to it three ounces of dissolved isinglass ; if 
large, the peel of one, if small, of two lem- 
ons, and their juice, half the peel of an or- 
ange, thi-ee parts of a tea-cupfiil of brandy, 
and one of white wine ; sweeten with pound- 
ed loaf sugar, and when lukewarm put it 
into a saucepan with tfie beaten whites of 
0ix eggs ; stir it, and let it boil for two min- 
utes ; strain it through a jelly-bag two or 
three limes till pei^tly cl^. 

JELLY, ORANGE.(l)Sqiieenthe juice 
of eight wanges and six lemcms, ^te the 
peel of half ttw fruit, and steqp it m a pint 
of cold water ; mix it with tlie juice, three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, one ounce 
and a quarter of isinglass, and the beaten 
wliites of seven ^Igs; put it into a sauce- 
pan, and stir it till it boils ; let it boil a few 
minutes, and strain it through a jelly-bag till 
clear; pat it into a mookl or glasses. 



JELLY, ORANGE. (2) BoU ia a 

pint of water one ounce and a quarter df 
picked isinglasR, the rind of an orange col 
thin, a stick of cinnamon, a few ooriaaden, 
and three ounces of loaf sugar, till the isin- 
glass is dissolved ; then squeeze two Seville 
oranges or lemons, and enoitth oranges Co 
make a pint of juice : mix all together, and 
strain it through a tamis or lawn sieve into 
a basin ; set it in a cokl place for half an 
hour ; pour it into another basin finee from 
sediment ; and when it b^ins to congeal^ 
fill your mould : when wanted, dip the 
mould into lukewarm water ; torn it out on 
a dish, and garnish with orange or lemon 
cut in slices, and placed round. N. B. — A 
few grains o( saifron pot in the water wiR 
add much to its appearance. 

JELLY, OX-HEEL. Slit them in two, 
and take away the fet between the cbws. 
The proportion of water to each heel h 
about a quart: let it simmer gently for eight 
houi% (keeping it clean skimmed); it will 
make a pint sAd a half of strone jelly, which 
b frequently used to make calf's feet jelly, 
or to add to mock tui'tle and other souits. 

JELLY, VEACH. Oit ten or twelve 
peaches in halves, take out the stones and 
peel them; set a pint of smooth clarified su- 
|;ar, dilutexl widi water, on the fire ; when 
It lias boiled and been skimmed, put in the 
peaches, tlie kernels should be broken and 
put in with them ; let them boil, very gently 
for ten mhiutes, then take out four or five 
of tlie huUea, and lay them on a plate to be 
in readinces for garnishinff tlie jeUy; let 
the remainder of the peaches boil for ten 
minutes longer ; While Uiey are boiling take 
three lemons, cut oflf tlie rind, squeeze the 
juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pa^ 
the liqjoor of the peaches into it, and then 
the isinfflasB, running it tlirougli the sieve 
two or three times, in order to mix it well ; 
fill the mould half full of jelly, and when set, 
put in the peaches and a little more jelly, 
and when Uiat is act, fill up the mould. 
The reason why the lemons are peeled be- 
fore they are scjueezed for tliis jelly is, that 
the oil in the rind w«tuld rather spoil the fla- 
vor of the jelly, tlian be any addition. 

JELLY, QUINCE. Quinces for jelly 
ou^it not to be quite ripe, they should, boit- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color ; take oflf the 
down which covers them, quarter, coft, piH 
them into a saucepan, with water enough to 
cover tliem ; set them on the fire, and when 
soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to draia, 
pressing them very slightly; strain the li- 
quor, and measure it ; clarify, and boil to 
ea$te an equal 6uantity of sii|far ; then take 
it oflf, add the tiqaor to it, stirring it well; 



JUI 



104 



KAV 



wben mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring ; 
as soon as the jelly spreads over tlie sp'>on, 
and ftiUs fiom it like treacle ; take it from 
the fire, and when cold) pour it into pots. 

JELLY, RASPBERRY. Take two 
tliirds of rasben'ies, and one third red cur- 
rants ; pick them, press the juioe tlu'ous^h )i 
sieve into a pan, cover, and place it m a 
cellar, or any otlier cool place for three days ; 
at the cud of that tiine raise the thick skin 
formed at the top, and pour the juice into 
anotlier vessel: weigh it, and put it, with 
half the quantity of sugar, into a preserving 
pan, set it on the fire ; a gr^t deal of sciun 
will rise at first, whicj^ must all be taken off; 
leave it on the fire for an hour ; then pour a 
few drops on a oold plate, if it cools of the 
proper consistence for jellies, take it from 
the fire and whilst hot pour it into pots ; 
Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are 
covered. 

JELLY, RUM. Clarify, and boU to a 
sirup, a pound of loaf sugar ; dissolve one 
ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, 
strain it through a sieve into the sirup when 
it is half warm, and when nearly cold, stir 
in a quart of -white wine ; mix it well, and 
add one or two table-spoonfiils of old Ja- 
maica rum, stir it for a few minutes, and 
pour it into a mould, or into glasses. 

JELLY, STRAWBERRY. Put some 
fresh-gathered strawberries into an earthen 
pan, bruise them witli a wooden spoon, add 
a little cold water, and some finely-pounded 
loaf sugar. In an hour or two, strain it 
through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of the 
juice add one ounce of isinglass, which has 
been dissolved in half a pint of water, well- 
skiram^d, strained, and allowed to cool ; mix 
all well, and pour it into an earthen mould. 

Raspberry jelly, red currant jelly, and red 
currants mixed with raspberries, may be 
made exactly in the same manner ; and the 
bright red color may be improved by mixing 
in a little carmine or lake. When this kind 
of jelly is to be madie with cherries, the fruit 
should be boiled a few minutes in clarified 
sugar, and when cold, the juice of one or two 
lemons mav be added wiui the isinglass. 

A little lemon juice may be added to any 
of the other jellies, in proportion to the acid- 
ity of the firuit. 

They may be iced by covering and sur- 
rounding the mould with ice, without any salt. 

JUICE. The [Nx>portion of oranges 
should be double that of lemons; the finn't 
t)eing selected free from decay, and wiped 
dry, tl»ey are to Ije sciucezed, and the juice 
strained through a sieve into an earthen pan ; 
to each pint, according to the acidity of tlie 



fixiit, a pound and a half, or a pound and 
threc-<iunrters, of double-refined sugar, bro» 
ken small, is to be added. It must be stirred 
and skimmed daily, till the sugar is well in- 
corporated, or as long as the scum rises; 
and when it has been a month in the pan, it 
may be boiled. 

JUICE OF FRESH FRUIT ICED. 

Press through a sieve the juice of a pint of 
pickled currants or raspberries, add to it 
four or five ounces of pounded loaf sugar, a 
little lemon juice, and a pint of cream. It 
may be whisked previous to fi^eezing, and a 
mixture of the juice may be used. 

JULIENNE. This soup is composed 
of caiTots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, let- 
tuce, sorrel and chervil ; the roots ar^cut in 
thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are 
halved and then sliced; the lettuce and sor- 
rel chopped small; toss up tlie roots in a 
little butter, when they are done, add the 
lettuces, &c. moisten tiiem with broth, and 
boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or 
more, if necessary ; prepare some bread in 
the usual way, and pour the julienne over it. 

JUMBLES. Mix one pound of fine 
flour with one pound of fine powder sugar, 
make them into a light paste with wliites of 
eggs well beaten; add half a pint of cream, 
half a pound of fi-esh butter, melted, and a 
pound of blanched almonds, pounded ; knctul 
them all together, tlioroughly, wiih a littie 
rose water, and cut out the jumbles i.Mio 
whatever forms you think proper; and eith- 
er bake them in a gentle oven, or fry them 
in fresh butter; serve them in a dish, mrlt 
firesh butter with a spoonfiil of mountain, and 
strew fine sugar over the disii. 

JUSTICE'S ORANGE SIRUP FOR 
Punch or Puddings. Squeeze the or- 
anges, and strain the juice from the pulp* 
into a large pot; boil it up with a pound and 
a half of fine sugar to each pint of juice ; 
skim it well; let it stand till cold-; then 
bottle it, and cork it well. 06«.— This 
makes a fine, soft, mellow-flavored puncii ; 
and, added to melted butter, is a good relish 
to puddings. 



K. 



KAVIA. Take the hard roes of several 
sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water, 
take away all the fibres as you would firoro 
a calPs brains, then, with a whisk, be;it the 
roes in the water, shaking oftfix>m the whisK 
whatever fibres may be adliering to it; llieo 
lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after 



KID 



105 



KIS 



nrfaich pat them into fiwh water hgaah ; and 
continue to whip them, and change the wa- 
ter, until the roes are perfectly cleansed and 
free from fibre; lay them on sieves to drain, 
season them well with salt and pepper; 
wi'ap them ia a coarse cloth, tying tncnn up 
like a ball, and let them drain thus till the 
next day, when serve them with fried bread, 
and sliallots chopped small. If they are to 
be kept for sometime, put more salt to them. 

KEBOBBED VEAL. See Veal. 

9 

KELLY'S SAUCE. See Smee. 

KERRY 'butter MILK. Put six 
quarts of butter^nilk into a cheese dodi, 
hang it in a cool place, and let the whev 
drip from it for two or three days ; %vhen it 
is rather thick, put it into a bmin, sweeten 
it with pound^ loaf sugar, and add a glass 
of brandy, or of sweet wine, and as much 
raspberry jam, or simp, as wiU color and 
give it an agreeable flavor. Whisk it weU 
together, and sorve it in a glass didi. 

KETCHUP, ENGUSH. Peel ten 
cloves of garlic, braise diem, and put them in- 
to a quart of while wine vinesar ; take a quart 
of white Port, put it on this fire, and when it 
boils, put in t#elve or fourteen anchovies, 
washed and cut in pieces ; let them simmer 
in the wine till tbey are dissolved; when 
cold, put them to the vinegar; then take 
half a pint of white wine, and put into it 
some maoe, some ghiger sliced, a few cloves, 
a spoonful of whow pepper bmised ; let them 
boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a 
whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with 
two or three spoonfub of hMse-radish; add 
it to the rest, 8tojf> it close, and stir it once 
or twice a day. Keep it doee stopped up. 

See Mwkroom Ketchup. 

KEW MINCE. Cut a pound of meat 
from a leg of cold roasted mutton, and mince 
it very finely^ tidier witfi six ounces ot 
suet, mix with it three <Nr four table-spoon- 
fiils of crumbs of bread, the beaten yolks of 
four eg^, one anchovy chopped, some pep- 
per and sate, and half a pifiit of Port wme ; 
put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a 
quick oven; turn it ouiinto a dish, and pour 
some brown gravy over it; serve with it 
v^isMi sauce. When a veal caul is not to 
be hady the rainoe may be done in a sanoe- 
pan. 

KID. Kid is good tetii^ ivhen it is but 
three or four moBths old, its flesh is then 
delicate and tender, but is not used after it 
has done sucking. To be good, it ought to 
be fot and white. It is drnsed in the same 
mamier as lamb or fewn. 



KIDNEYS. Cut them dirougli the lolkf 
way, score them, and sprinkle them over 
witii a little pepper and salt; in order to 
broil all over alike, and to keep them from 
curling on the gridiron, run a wire skewer 
right through them. They must be broiled 
over a clear fire, being carefol to turn them 
fiiequently till they are done; they will lake 
abcNit ten or twelve minutes broiling, |Ht)vi- 
ded they are done over a brisk fire; or, if 
you choose, you may firy them in butter, and 
make gravy for th^En in the pan (after the 
kidneys are taken out), by putting in a tea- 
spoonful of flour; as soon as it looks brown, 
put in a sufficient quantity of water as will 
make gravy; they will take five minutes 
longer frying than tnroiling. Garnish with 
fried parsley: you may imfNrove them if yo« 
think proper, by chopping a few parslev 
leaves very fine, mix tbcan with a bit of fresh 
butter, and a little pepper and ialt, mid then 
put sMue of this imxture over each kidney. 

KISSES. (1) Put the whites of e^ 
eggs, and two spoonfels of oiaage-flower 
water, into a Chma basin, and whisk till 
they become a firm froth, then add half a 
pound of iifted sugar, stir it hi with great 
care by means of a spatula: that done, lay 
small pieces of this mixture on white paper; 
make each drop about the site of a ratafia, 
rather eonical than flat; pbce the paper 
whidi contains them on a piece of wood 
about an inch fliick, and put them in a very 
hot oven: watch ttem, and as soon as you 
perceive they begin to look yellowish, take 
them out, and detach them from the paper 
with a knife as cautiously as possible, for 
they are very iendor. Take a small spoon^ 
and with the end of it remove the moist part, 
whi<^ is at the bottom, so as to make them 
a little holbw, and as you do diem, lay each 
on the paper, the hollow side upwards; put 
them on the wood into the oven again for a 
few minutes to dry ; when done, lay than 
in boxes, and keep them in a diy and warm 
place. If they are for table, fill the hollow 
of each widi a little whipped cream or rasp- 
berry jam; put them together by coupfes, 
the cream or jam ifeside; place tbem in a 
dish, and serve them as soon as possible. 

KISSES. (2) One pound of the best loaf 
sugar, powdered and sifted. The whites of 
four eggs. Twelve drops of essence of lem- 
on. A tea-cnp of currant jelly. Beat the 
whites df fow ^(gs till tbey stand alonew 
Then beat in, gradually, the fwgar, a tea- 
spoonful at a time. Add the essence of lem- 
on, and beat the whole very hard. Lay a 
wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a squam 
tin pan. Drop on it, at equal distances, a 
small tea-spoonfol of stiff currant jelly. 
With a large spoon, pile w»me of the bealon 



LAM 



106 



LAM 



vfaite of egg and mgar, on each lump of 
jelly, BO as to cover it entirely. Drop on 
the mixture as evenly as poasiliie, so a8 to 
make the kiflses of a round smooth shape. 
8et them in a cool oven, and as soon as 
they are colored, they are done. Then take 
ttiem out and place them two bottoms to- 
gether. Lay them lightly on a sieve, and 
dry them in a cool oven, till the two bot- 
toms stick iast together, so as to form one 
ball or oval. 

KNUCKLES. See theteverai meats 
to which they belong. 



L. 



LAMB. The fore quarter of lamb con- 
sists of the shoulder, the neck, and the 
breast together; the hind quarter is the leg 
and loin. There are also the head and 
pluck, the fry or sweetbreads, skirts, lamb- 
stones, and liver. In choosing the fi>re 
quarter, the vein in the neck should be rud- 
dy, or of a bluish color. In the hind quar- 
ter, the knuckle should feel stiff, the kidney 
small, and perfectly fresh. To keep it, thie 
joints should be carefully wiped every da^, 
and in warm weather, sprinkled with a lit- 
tle pepper. The fore quarter is the prime 
joint, and should be roasted and bested 
with butter ; the gravy is made as for beef 
or mutton. Mint sauce is served in a sauce 
tureen, and half a lemon is sent to table 
with it, the juice of which is squeezed upon 
the ribs aA&c the dioulder is cut off, and 
they have been sprinkled with salt. If the 
joint weiriis five pounds, it will require to 
be roasted one hour ; if ten pounds, one hour 
and three-quarters. The hind quarter may 
be roasted, or the leg of it boiled. The 
loin is then cut into steaks, fried, and serv- 
ed round it ; the outside bones being cover- 
ed with a fringe of fried parsley. A dish 
of spinach is generally served with the 
lamb. 

LAMB, Is a delicate, and commonhr 
considered tender meat ; but those who talk 
of tender lamb, while they ara thinking of 
the age of the animal, forget that even a 
chicken must be kept a proper time aftor it 
has beeir killed, or it will be toug^ picking. 
To the usual accompaniments of roast«i 
meat, green mint sauce, and a sabd, is com- 
monly added ; and some cooks, about five 
minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with a 
little fitsh gathei'ed and finely minced pars- 
ley. Lamb, and all young meats, ousht to be 
thoroughly done; therefore do not taxe either 
lamb or veal off the spit till you see it drop 
white gravy. VHien green mint cannot be 



got, mint vinegar is an acceptable sufaetituto 
for it ; and crisp pai-sley on a side plate, is 
an admirable accompaniment. 

Hind-Quarter, Of eight pounds, will 
take fit>m an hour and three-quarters to two 
hours: baste and froth it. Tlie leg and 
the loin of lamb, when little, shouM be 
roasted together ; the former being lean, the 
latter fat, and the gravy is better preserved. 

Fore-Quarter, Of ten pounds, about two 
hours. It is a (n^tty general custom, vfbesa 
you take off the shoulder from the ribs, to 
squeeze a Seville orange over them, and 
sprinkle them with a little pepper and «Jt. 
This may as well be done by the cook be- 
fore it comes to table ; some people are not 
remaikaUy expert at dividing these joints 
nicely. 

Legt Of five pounds, firran an hour to an 
hour and a half. 

Shoulder, With a quick fire, an hour. 

Ribe, About an hour to an hour and a 
quarter: ioint it nicely, crack the ribe across, 
and divide them firom the brisket after it ia 
roasted. 

Loin, An hour and a quarter. 

Neck, An hour. qo 

Breaet, Three-quarters of an hour. 

LAMB BREAST. Cut it into pieces, 
and stew it in a weak stock, with a glass 
of Port wine ; add pepper and salt. When 
it is perfectly tendei', thicken the sauce 
with butter and flour. Have ready cucum- 
bers stewed in gravy, put tliem over the 
lamb before serving. A breast of mutton 
may be served in the same way. 

LAMB CHOPS BROILED. Oit a 

loin or best end of the neck into chops, flat- 
ten tliem, and cut off the fat and skm ; rub 
the gridiron with a little fot, and broil them 
on a clear fire. Turn them with steak toogs, 
till quite done. Serve them hot. 

LAMB CHOPS. Cat a neck or k>in of 
Iamb into diops; rub them over with the 
beaten yolk or an ^g; dip th«n into grated 
bread, mixed with ^enty of ch<q9ped pam- 
ley, auid season with lemon-peel, pepper, 
and salt; fry them a light bi'own m good 
dripping; make a sauce with the trimmings, 
and thicken the sanoe with butter rolled in 
floor; add a little lemon pickle and murii- 
room ketchup. Garnish with fiied parsl^. 
They may bs served with or without the 
gravy. 

LAMB CUTLETS. Cut the cutlets off 
the loin, into round bits; trim off the fot and 
skin ; dip them into iSbe beaten yolk of an 
egg, and then into bread crumbs, mixed 
with minced parsley, grated nutmeg, and 
lemon-^ieel, pepper, and aak. Fry UMm a 



LAM 



107 



LAR 



li^ brown in clarified beef met; drain 
inem aa the back of a sieve befiire the fire. 
Serve them with melted batter with a little 
lemon pickle in it, or a brown sauce tliick- 
eoed. Garnish with cut lemon. 

LAMB DRESSED WITH RICE. 
Half roast a small fore quarter of lamb; cut 
it into steaks, season them with a little salt 
and pepper; lay them into a dish, and pour 
ki a little water. Boil a pound of rice 
with a blade or two of mace; strain it, and 
stir in a good piece of fresh butter, and a 
little salt, add also the greater part of the 
yolks of four ^gs beaten ; cover the lamb 
with the rice, and with a feather put over 
it the remainder of the beaten eggs. Bake 
it in an oven till it has acquired a light 
brown color. 

LAMB FEET. CSean, well wash, and 
blanch six lamb's feet ; stew them, till they 
become tender, in some white stock, with a 
slice of lean ham, one onion, some parsley, 
thyme, two blades of mace, a little whole 
pepper, and a few mushrooms. Before 
serving, strain tlie sauce ; thicken it with 
flour and butter, and half a pint of cream ; 
boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet 
and the juice of half a small lemon. Gar- 
nish with sippets of thin toasted bread, cut 
into a three-cornered shape. 

LAMB FRY. Fry it plain, or dip it 
in an egg well beaten on a plate, and strew 
some fine stale bread-crumbs over it; gar- 
nish with crisp paiiiley. 

LAMB, LEG OF, BOILED. It should 
be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as 
white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, 
dip them in egg, strew them over with 
bread-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown, 
serve them round the dish, and garnish with 
dried or fried parsley ; serve with spinach 
to eat with it. 

LAM6 PIE, THE GERMAN WAY. 

Cut a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard 
tliem with small lardons of bacon, season- 
ed with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a 
Ixiy-leaf; add fkt bacon pounded, small on- 
ions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; put these 
into the pie, and let it bake fer three houra; 
when backed, cut it open, skim off all the 
fat, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve 
hot. 

LAMB PIE, A SAVORY ONE. Cut 
the meat into pieces, and season it with 
pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, 
finery beaten. Make a (jood puff paste 
crust, put the meat into it, with a few 
bmb stones and sweetbreeuils, seasoned 



! the same as the meat. Then put in aone 
! oysters and fl>roemeat balls, the yolks of 
hard eg^, and the tops of aB|)aragUB, about 
two inches Ions, first boiled green. Put 
butter all over Uie pie, put on die lid, and 
let it bake fer an hour and a half in a quick 
oven. In the meantime, take a pint of^gra- 
vy, the oyster liquor, a gill of rea wine, auul 
a little grated nutnieg. Mix all tc^ther 
with die yolks of two or three eggs, finely 
beaten, and keep stirring it the same way 
all the time. When it boils, pour it into 
the pie, put on the lid again, and serve it to 
table. 

L4MB, TO ROAST OR BOIL. A 
quarter oi an hour is generally allowed to 
each pound of meat ; a 1^ ot lamb of five 
pounds will therefore take an hour and a 
qtiarter to roast or boil, the other joints in 
the same proportion ; serve either with sa- 
lad, pickJes, broooli, cauliflowers, string 
beans, pease, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw 
or stewed. 

LAMB SHOUIJ)ER, GRILLED. Boil 
it ; score it in chequers about in inch square, 
rub it over with the yolk of an egg, pepper 
and salt it, strew it with bread-crumbs and 
dried parsley^ or sweet herbs, and carbO' 
nado, i, e. grill, t. e. broil it over a clear 
fire, or put it in a Dutch oven till it is a 
nice light bro^na ; send up some gravy with 
it, or make a sauce fer it of flour and water 
well mixed tc^ther witli an ounce of fresh 
butter, a table-spoonful of mushroom or 
walnut ketchup, and die juice of half a lem- 
on. See Grill sauce. Breasts of lamb 
are often done in the same way, and with 
mushroom or mutton sauce. 

LAMB STEAI{:S FRIED. Fry them 
of the nicest brown; when served, throw 
over them a good quantity of crumbs of 
bread fried, and crisped parsley. Or you 
may season them and broil tliem in huttei'ed 
papers, either with crumbs and- herbs, or 
without, according to taste. 

LARD, HOG'S. The lard should be 
carefully melted in a jar, put into a kettle 
of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders 
that have been particularly well cleaned. 
It is best to have the bladders small, as the 
lard will keep better, for, af^er^tlie air 
reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is 
melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This 
being a very useful article in frying fish, it 
should be prepared with gceat care. Mix- 
ed with batter, it makes a fine crust. 

LARKS. These delicate little birds are 
. in high season in November. When thw 
are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed, 



L£i 



108 



LEM 



ihem ; do th«n over widi the y<^k of 
eg^, and then roll them in bread-cnunbe ; 
spit them on a lark spit, and ^ten tliat on 
to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will 
be sufficient time to roast them, in before a 
quick fine; whilst they are roasting, baste 
than with firesh butter, and sprinkle them 
with bread-crumbs till they are well cover- 
ed with them. Fry some grated bread in 
butter, set it to dram before die fire, that it 
may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish 
under the larks, and gamiith with slices of 
lemon. 

LAVENDER DROPS. Fill a quart 
bottle with the blossoms of lavender, and 
pour on it as much brandy as it will contain ; 
let it stand ten days, theu strain it, and add 
of nutm^ bruised, cloves, mace, and cochi- 
neal, a quarter of an ounce each, and bot- 
tle it for use. In nervous cases, a little may 
be taken dropped on a bit of sugar ; and in 
the beginning of a bowd complaint, a tea- 
apooofiil, taken in half a glass (^ pepper- 
mint water, will often prove efficacious. 

LAVENDER WATER. Put into a 
iarse bottle, eight ounces of the best recti- 
fied spirits of wine, three drachms of oil of 
lavender, one drachm of essence of amber- 
eris, and threepence-worth of musk ; cork 
It tightly, and sliake it well every day, for 
a fortnight or three weeks. 

LEAVES, TO GREEN, FOR ORNA- 
MENTING FRUIT. Take small leaves 
of a pear-tree, keep them close stopped in 
a pan of verjuice and water, give them a 
boil in some simp of apricots ; put them be- 
tween two pieces of glass to dry; smooth 
and cut them into the shape of apricot- 
leaves (the leaves should be procured with 
stallcs); stick them about the apricots or 
any other preserved fi'uit; but the leaves 
must be cut in the shape of the leaf which 
bek>ng8 to the fruit you ornament. 

LEEKS. Leeks are most generally used 
for soups, ragouts, and other made dislies, 
they ai'e very rairely brought to table ; in 
which case dress them as follows: — Put 
them into the stock-pot till about three parts 
done; then take them out, drain, and soak 
tliem in vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and cfeves; drain than again, stuff the 
heaits with & farce] dip them hi batter, and 
fry them. 

LEIPZE6ER PANCAKES. Beat well 
the whites of four, and the yolks of eight 
fireah egga, and add, by degrees, half a 
pound o( pounded loaf sugar, a pint and a 
naif of sweet cream just warmed, half a 
pound of clarified firesh butter, two tabfe- 



spoonfuk of firesh yeast, and a wuie-f^ass fiifl 
of spirits of wine ; then mix in as much sifted 
flour as will make it into a thick batter; 
1^ it rise for half an hour; roll it out thin; 
cut it into itnmds or obbi« pieces, and lay 
on them iam or marmalade; double them, 
and let mem stand again to rise, and firy 
them in boiling firesh kurd or butto*. 

LEMONADE. To a gallon of spring 
water add some cinnamon and cloves, pleor 
ty of orange and plenty of lemon-juioe, and 
a bit of the peel <^each; sweeten well widi 
loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of 
six eggs, and the yolk of one ; give it a boil, 
and dttn let it simmer for ten minutes ; then 
run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand 
till cold, before it is drank. 

LEMONADE TRANSPARENT. Thn 
peel of fourteen lemons having been soiled 
in two quarts of water for two houns, their 
juice, one pound and a half of sugar, and a 
quart of white wine, are to be added; a 
quart of new milk, made boiling hot, is then 
to be mixed with it, and when it has stood 
an hour, it is to be strained throu^ a jelly- 
bag till it runs clear. 

LEMON BONBONS. Take two pounds 
of the best lump sugar, clarify and boil it to 
caramel; but just before it reaches that 
point, grate the rind of a lemon and put in 
it; in the meanwhile mek a little butter; 
skim, and poor it off clear; take a spoonfiil 
of this butter, and rub it with your hand over 
a cof^serplate or marble slab, on which pour 
the carain«/ sugar: (hen havea swoi'd blade, 
take an end in each hand, and impress lines 
in the sugar about an inch apart; then im- 
press similar lines across the first, so as to 
form small cakes ; this operation sliould be 
performed as quickly as possible, lest the 
sugar should cool before thie whole is mark- 
ed ; when however all is done, pass the 
blade carefiilly between the sugar and the 
slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and 
when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, 
and wrap eadli in paper ; keep them in a 
dry place. 

LEMON BRANDY. Three quarts of 
brandy being put into an earthen jar that is 
fitted with a cover, a pound and three-quar- 
ters of fine loaf sugar, the thin parings of 
six lemons, and the juice of twdve, are to 
be added ; one quart of boiling milk is to be 
poured over the mixture, which must be 
stirred daily for eight days ; it is then to be 
run througn a jelly-bag and bottled. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Boil the 
peel of two large lemons till th^ are (]piite 
tender, and then pound it well in a mortari 



J 



LEM 



109 



LEM 



with (bar or five oimoes of loaf sugar, the 
yolks^of six em, half a pound of £re«h but- 
ter, and a litue curd beaten fine: pound and 
mix altogether, lay a rich puff paste in some 
patty-pans, fill tbea half fiul, and bake them 
QueBSyT 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. Mix four 
oonces of sifted lump sugar, and four ounces 
of butter tooedier, and gentk melt it; then 
add the yolks of two» and tne white of one 
egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and 
the juice of one lemon and a half, one sa- 
vory bisraitt, some blanched almonds, pound- 
ed, three spoonfuls of brandy; mix the 
whole well leather, and put it to paste 
made with the foUowing ingredients: eight 
ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two- 
thirds <^ wliicb must be mixed with the 
floor first; then wet it M'ith six spoonfuls of 
water, and roll in the remainder of the but- 
ter. 

LEMON CHIPS. Take large smoodi- 
rinded Malaga lemcms ; race or cut off their 
peel into chips with s^ small knife (this will 
require some practice to do it properly) ; 
throw tliem into salt and water till next 
day; have ready a pan of boiling water, 
throw them in and boil diem tender. Drain 
them well: after having Iain sometime in 
water to cool, put them in an earthen pan, 
pour over enough boiling clarified sugar to 
cover them, and then let tliem lie two days ; 
then strain the sirup, put more sugar, and 
reduce it bjr boiling till the sirup is quite 
thick ; put in the chips, and simmer them a 
few minutes, and set them by for two days : 
repeat it once more : let them be two days 
longer, and they will be fit to candy, which 
must be done as follows: take four pints of 
clarified sitgar, which will be sufficient for 
six pounds of chips, boil it to the decree of 
bloton (which may be known by dippmg the 
skimmer into the sugar, and blowing strong- 
ly through the Iioles of it; if little bladders 
appear, it has attained tliat degree); and 
when the chips are thoroughly drained and 
wiped on a clean cloth, put them into the 
sii'vqp, stirring them about with the skimmer 
till you see the sugar become white; tlien 
take them out with two forks ; shake them 
li^tly into a wire sieve, and set them into 
a stove, or in a warm place to dry. Orange 
chi|.s are done in tiie same way. 

LEMON ESSENCE. Rasp your lem- 
ons all round, very thin, and for every quar- 
ter of a pound of rind, allow one pound of 
scalar; mix it well widi a large spaddle till 
you find it is aO of the same color, and that 
the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone 
jar, and raress it down as hard as you can ; 
pot a bkader over die paper you cover with, 

10 



and tie it over <|uite tlsfat; put it by, and m 
a month's time it wifl oe fit for use. 

LEMON JUICE TO PRESERVE. 

Squeeze, and strain a pint of lemon-juice ; 
put into a China faasia one pound c( doMe- 
refined sugar finely pounded and sifted, add 
the lemon<juioe, and stir it with a silver 
spoon tiU the sugar be perfectly dissolved. 
Bottle it, and cork it tightly; seal the cork, 
or tie bladder oxer it, and keep it in a dry 
cool place. 

LEMON MARMALADE. AOow to a 
pound of lemons eighteen ounces of fine 
loaf sugar ; grate the rind of a few ; cut 
them into liaif ; squeeze and strain the juice ; 
boil the skins in the same way as those 
of the orange skins are done ; scoop out the 
pulp and w-hite part; cut half into thin chips 
or parings, and pound the other lialf in a 
moitar; pound the sugar, and pour over it 
die juice ; stir, and let it boil for five min- 
utes; skim it; take it ofi* the fire; put in the 
parings and the pounded skins ; noil it f(Hr 
five minutes, then add the grated peel, and let 
it boil for five minutes more ; take it ofi*, and 
stir it till half cold, before putting it into jars. 

LEMON MINCE PIES. Squeeze out 
the juice from a large lemon ; boil the out- 
side till sufficiendy tender to beat to a mash, 
add to it three large apples cliopped, and 
four ounces of suet, lialf a pound of currants, 
four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of die 
lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as 
for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill 
the patty-pans in the usual manner. 

LEMONPEEL ESSENCE. Wash 
and brusli clean die lemons; let them get 
perfectly dry: take a lump of loafsi^ar, and 
rub them till all the yellow rind is taken up 
by the sugar: scrape off the surfoce of the 
sugar into a preserving pot, and press it 
hard down ; cover it very dose, ana it will 
keep fcM* sometime. 

LEMON-PEEL aUINTESSENC:E. 
Best oil of lemon, one drachm, strongest 
rectified spirit, two ounces, introduced by 
d^ees till die spirit kills, and completely 
mixes with die oil. This elegant prepara- 
tion possesses all the deligbtfiil fragrance and 
flavor of the fiesbest lemon-peel. 06«.— A 
few drops on the sugar you ooake punch with 
will instandy impregnate it with as moch 
flavor as the troublesome and tedious meth- 
od of grating the rind, or rubbing die sugar 
on it. It will be found a supenative sub- 
stitute for fresh lemon-peel for eveiy purpose 
that it is used for: blancmange, jellies, cos- 
tards, ice, negus, lemonade, and pies and pud- 
dings, ttuflSugi, soups, sauces, ragouts, &c. 



LEM 



110 



LEM 



LEMON-PEEL TINCTURE. A very 
easy and economical way of obtaining, ana 
preserving the flavor of femon-peel, is to fiU 
a wide-mouthed pint bottle half full of bi-an- 
dy, or proof spirit ; and when you use a 
lemon, pare the rind off veiy thin, and pot 
it into the brandy, &c.: in a fortnight it 
will impregnate the ^irit with the flavor 
very strongly. 

LEMON PICKLE. (1) Grate off a 

little of the outer rind of two dozen of lem- 
ons, divide than into four rather mcHre than 
half way down, leaving the bottom part 
whole ; rub on them equally half a pound 
of finely-beaten salt, spread them upon a 
large dish, and put them into a cool oven. 
When the juice has dried up, put them into 
a stone jar, with an ounce of cloves and one 
of mace finely beaten, one ounce of nutm^ 
cut into thin slices, a quarter of an ounce of 
cayenne, and four ounces of garlic peeled, 
also half a pint of white mustaurd-seed bruis- 
ed and tied in a bit of muslin. Pour over 
the whole two quarts of boiling vinegar, 
stop the jar closely, and let it stand for tliree 
months ; then strain it through a hair sieve, 
pi-essing it well through ; let it stand till the 
next day, pour off the clear, and put it into 
small bottles. Let the dregs stand covei'ed 
some days, when it will become fine. It 
will keep good for years. When the lem- 
ons are to be used as pickle, no straining is 
necessary. 

LEMON PICKLE. (2) Cut into quar- 
ters, and pick out all the seeds of six mid- 
dling sized lemons; put them into a jar, 
strew over them two ounces of well beaten 
salt ; cover the jar with a cloth and plate, 
and let it stand three days; then put to tliem 
cloves and a quarter of"^ an ounce of mace 
beaten fine, one ounce of garlic or shallot, 
two of mustard-seed bruised, and one nut- 
meg sliced. Make a quart of vin^ar boil- 
ing hot, and pom* it over the ingrediemts ; 
cover the jar, and in diree or four days close 
it with a bung, and tie leather over it. It 
will be fit for use in a week, and is an im- 
provement to most sauces, i.nd paiticularly 
to fish sauce. 

LEMON POSSET. Squeeze die juice 
of two lemons into a China bowl, or small 
deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweets 
it like sirup, add « little brandy ; boil one 
pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel; 
take out the peel ; when cold, put the cream 
into a teapot, pour it to die sirup, holding 
it hi^. Make it the day before it is want- 
ed. 

LEMON PUDDING. See Pudding. 



LEMON RINDS MARMALADE. 
Having squeezed the juice fipom your femons, 
cut out all the white part, and put the rinds 
into boiling water ; as soon as they begin to 
soften, take them fi^om the fire, tmd throw 
them into cold water ; then lay them on a 
sieve to drain, and make them into marma- 
lade, in the same manner as apricots. Or- 
ange rinds are done this way. 

LEMON SPONGE. BoU half an ounce 
of isinglass in a pint (^ water till dissolved; 
strain it, and the following day add the 
juice of two lemons, and the grated peel of 
one ; rub through a hair sieve, into the isin- 

glasB a good quantity of raspberry jam, that 
as stood before the fiiie some time, and 
whisk it all together till like a sponge; put 
it into an earthen mould, set it in a cold 
place for some hours, and turn it out. Any 
other sort of preserve may be used, and if 
made with only orange or lenoon-juice, 
sweeten it with sugar, or make it with 
orange jelly which may liave been left die 
day before. 

LEMON SYLLABUBS. Take a puit 
of cream, a pint of white wine, tlie peel of 
two lemons grated, and the juice ; sugar ac- 
cording to taste; let it stand some time; 
mill or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve ; put 
the remainder into glasses, and lay on the 
fi*oth. They should be made the day before 
they are wanted. If you should wish them 
to taste very strong of the lemon, you must 
make use of the juice of six lemons, and 
nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep 
four or five days. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Put a pint of 
fi'esh lemon-juice to a pound and three- 
quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a 
gentle h^it ; skim it till the sur&ce is quite 
clear ; add an ounce of thin-cut lemon-peel ; 
let them simmer (very gently) together for a 
few minutes, and run it tlirough a flannel. 
When cold, bottle and cork it closely, and 
keep it in a cool place. Or, Dissolve a 
quarter of an ounce (avoirdupois) of citric, 
f. e. crystallized lemon acid, in a pint of 
clarified sirup; flavor it with the peel, or 
dissolve the acid in equal parts of simple 
sirup, and sirup of lemon-peel. 

LEMON WATER. Put two slices of 
thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit 
of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a larse 
spoonfiil of capillaire ; pom* in a pint of boil- 
ing water, and stop it close for two hours'. 

LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. Bofl 
a pound of the finest sugar, take it ofl* the 
fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one 
lemon at different times, stiiring continraUy ; 



LOB 



111 



LOB 



It will make the sugar as ^fliite at milk if 
properly done; take care not to drop any 
of the seeds into it; work it well together, 
and when it is of an equal substance (wliich 
prove in the same manner as any other jelly), 
pour it into a mould. Lemon cfmeerve is 
made in the same manner, only that the su- 
ffar must be boiled to a greater height than 
for white lemon conserve. 

LOBSTER. Buy these alive; the lob- 
ster moxsfaants sometimes keep them till 
they are stanred, befiire they noil them ; 
they are then watery, have not half their 
flavor, and like other persons that die of a 
consumption, have lost the calf of their legs. 
Qiooee those that (as an old codL says, are 
*' heavy and lively," and) are fiill of mo- 
tion, which is the index of their freshness. 
Those (^the middle size are the best. Nev- 
er take them when the shell is incrusted, 
whidi is a sign they are old. The male 
lobster is pruned to eat, and the innale 
(on account of the eggs) to make sauce of. 
The hen lobster is distinguished by having a 
broader tail than the ms3e, and less daws. 
Set on a pot, with water salted in propor- 
tion of a table-epoc»iul of salt to a quaixof 
water ; when the water boils, put it in, and 
keep it boiling briskly from haJf an hour to 
an hour, according to its size; wipe all the 
scum off it, and rub the shell with a very 
little butter or sweet oil; break off the 
great claws, crack than carefully in each 
joint, so tlnit they may not be riiattered, 
and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail 
down the middle, and send up the body 
whole. 

LOBSTERS, to ehoo9t. The heaviest 
are considered the best. When alive, if they 
are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong 
motion when you put your finger on the ^es 
and press them. Wlien you buy tliem ready 
boiled, try whether their tails are stiff and 
pull up with a i^ing, otherwise that part 
will be flabby. The cock-lobster may be 
distinguished from the hen by the narrow 
back part of the tail, and the two uppermost 
fins within it are stiff and hard; but those 
of the \xNk are soft, and the tail broader. 
The male, though generally the smallest, has 
the hiefaest flavor, the flesh is firmer, and 
the coKHT when boiled is a deeper red. They 
come in about April, and remain in season 
till the oysters return. Hen lobstars are 
preferred for sauces, on account of their 
coral. 

\C3^ Ijohstert are told in Boston, al- 
ready boiled, and are alutaya fresh and 
good. 

LOBSTER A LA BRAISE. Pound 
the meat o( a large lobster very fine with 



two ounces of butter, and seaeoo it with 
grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add 
a little grated bi^ead, beat up two egss, r^ 
serve part to put over the meat, aiMi with 
the rest make it up into the form of a lob- 
ster. Pound the spawn and red part, and 
spread it over it; oake it a quarter of an 
hour, and just before saving, lay over it the 
tail and body shell, with the small daws put 
underneath to resemble a lobster. 

LOBSTERS OR CRABS, buttercd. 
Pick all the meat firom the bodies of either, 
mince it small, put it into a saucepan with 
two or three taUe-epoonfiils of white wine, 
one <^ lonon-pickle, and three or four c^ 
rich gravy, a bit of butter, some salt, pep- 
per, and grated nutm^; thicken it with 
the yolks of two eggs beat up, and when 
quite hot, put it into the large shells; gar- 
nish them with an edging of bread toasted. 

LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break the 
shells, uid take out the meat carefully, cut 
it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, 
adding the qpawn ; thicken with flour and 
butter some white stock, with which the 
shells have been boiled; season it with 
white pepper, mace, and salt, put in the 
lobster and heat it up ; just before serving, 
add a little lemon^juice, or lemon pickle. 
The stock may be nuule with the diells, only 
boiled in a pint of water, with some white 
pc^iper, salt, and a little mace, thickened 
with cream, flour, and butter. 

LOBSTER KETCHUP. Choose a 
lobster diat is full of spawn, and weishin^ 
as nearly as possible three pounds ; picK out 
all the meat, and pound the red part or co- 
ral in a marble mortar; when completely 
bruised, add the meat ; pound, and moisten 
it with a little sherry wine, mix with it a 
tea.«poonfiil of cayenne, add the rest of the 
bottle of sherry, and mix it thoroughly ; put 
it into two wide-mouthed bottles, and on 
the top put a small table-spoonful of whole 
pepper, cork the bottles tightly, and tie 
them over with leather. It will keep good 
a twelve-month, and exactly resembles fresh 
k>bster sauce. Four table-spoonilils heated 
in melted butter are sufficient for a large 
sauce-tmeen. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (1) Pick the 
meat and red berries out of a lobster, mince 
them finely, add grated bread, chopped pars- 
ley, and butter; season with grated nutm^, 
white pepper, and salt ; add a little white 
stock, cream, and a table-spoonful of white 
wine, with a few chopped oysters ; beat it 
all together. Line the patty-pans with puff 
paste; put into each a bit of crumb of breads 
about an inch square, wet the edge of the 



LOB 



112 



MAC 



parts, and cover k with aaother bit; with 
the pcurte-cutter mark it all round the rim, 
and pare off the paste round the edge of the 
patty-pan. When baked, take off the top, 
and with a knife take out the faiead and a 
little of the inside paste, put in the prepar- 
ed lobster, lay on the top paste, and serve 
tliem in a napkin. Another way to pre- 
pare the paste.— Roll it out aearW halt an 
inch thick, and cat it into rouncls with a 
tin cutter, and, with one or two sizes less, 
mark it in the middts about half through. 
When they are baked, carefiilly cut out the 
inner top (^ the paste, and scoop out the in- 
side, so as to make room for die mince, which 
put in, and place on the top. 

LOBSTER PATTIES. (2) Prepare the 

CitUes as in the last receipt. Take a hen 
hster aheadv boiled; pick the meat from 
the tail aad ehws, and ebop it fine; put it 
into a stewpan, with a little of the mside 
spawn pounded in a mortar till quite iraooth, 
aa ounce of fresh buttev, half a gill of eream, 
and half a gill of real ceneiKBme, cayenne 
pepper, and sak, a tea^spoonfid of cssenoa 
of anchovy, the same of lemon-juioe, aad a 
table-spoonAd of flour aad water: stew it 
fire minutes. 

LOBSTER PIE. (1) BoU dm lobsters, 
aad cut the meal of the tail into feur bite ; take 
out the meat from- the clawa and bodies, 
pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of 
one lobster, and seasoa with pepper, salt, 
aad nutmeg, add three table-spoonfuls of 
vinef^; melt half a pound of batter, and 
mix it with the pomided meat aad the oramb 
of a slice of grated bread. Put puff paste 
round the ed^ and side of the dish ; put in 
the tail of the lobster, then a laver of o^ 
ters with their li<|uor, and next the pounded 
meat ; cover it with a puff paste, and bake 
it till the paste be dooe. Before serving, 
pour in some rich gravy, made of a littw 
weak stock in which the lobster shells have 
been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and 
sak, and which has been strained mid thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

LOBSTER PIE. (2) Take out, as 
whole as possible, the meat fitMU the tail 
and claws of two or three boiled lobsters ; 
cut them into slices, and season than with 
nutmeg, pepper, and saU. Make a force- 
meat of the soft part of the bodies, teoether 
with grated bread, some parsl^, and one 
anchovy minced, grated lemon-peel, mace, 
salt, and pepper, the volks of two hard- 
boiled egga braised, and a bit of buttor ; mix 
it all to^^her with the well-b»ten volk of 
an egg, and make it up into small balls. 
Put the lobster into the pie-dish, and cover 
it with the foroaneat balls» and hard-boiled 



yolks of eggs; add mora than half a pint of 
rich wdiite stock, a slasB of white wine, and 
a teUe-spoonful of lemon-juio^ or vinqpur 
Cover it with puff paste, and uake it only 
till the oaste be doniB. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. Choose a fine 
spawny hen lobster; be sure it is fresh, pick 
out the spawn and the red coral iato a mor- 
tar, add to it half an ounce of butter, pound 
it quite smooth, and rub it throogb a faaur- 
sieve with the back of a vroodan spoon; cot 
the meat <^ the lobetor into small squares, or 
pull it to pieces with a folk ; put the pound** 
ed spawn into as much melted butter as^on 
'think will do, and stir it together till it is 
thoroiu|faly mixed; now put to it the meat 
of the lobeter, aad warm it on the fore; tak» 
care it dees not boil, whioh will noil ito 
complexion, and ite brilliant red color will 
immediately foda. The above is a very easy 
and excellent ■mnner oi making this sanoe. 
Some ase strong beef or veal gravy instead 
of mdted batter, adding anchovy, cayenne, 
ketcbnp, cavioe, lemonguice, or pidue, mt 
wine, ite* 

LUNCHEON FOE AN INVALIIK 
Put bread crumbs and red cnruityOr any other 
jetty, akeraately iato a tomblar, and wheo' 
^ half foU, fill it up withmiQu 



M, 



MACARONI, TO MAK£. Beat four 
eggs for eight or ten minutes, strain them, 
and sdr in flour till stiff enoi^ to vrork into 
a paste upon a m^urbb, or stone ridb} add 
flour till it be a stiff pa^, aad work it wdl ; 
cut (^ a small bit at a tiaie, roll it out as 
thin as pnper, and cut it with a paste-cut- 
ter <Hr knile into very narrow strips; twist, 
md lay them upon a dean cloth, in a dry, 
warm place ; in a few hours it will be per- 
fectly hard; put it into a box, with white 
papor under and over it. It may be cut in- 
to small stars, or eirdes, to be used for soup, 
and does not ret^ire so much boiling as the 
Itelian Macaroni. 

MACARONL The usual mode of dress- 
ing, it in England is by addiq^ a whito 
sauce, and Parmesan or CSieshire cheese, 
and burning it; but this makes a dish which 
is proverbially unwholescMne: ite bad quali- 
ties arise from the oiled and burnt cheese, 
and die haff-dressed flour and batter put into 
the white sauce. Macaroni plain boiledy 
and some rich stock or pcMtable soup added 
tc 't quite hot, will be found a delicious disk 
and very wholesome. Or, boil macaroni aa 
direetod in the receipt for the padding, and 



MAC 



113 



MAC 



nrvB it quite hot ia a deep tureeo, and let 
eadhi gunt add grated Parmeaan and cold 
butter, or oi]ed butter aenred hot, and it is 
excellent; this is the moit common Italian 
mode of dressing it. Macaroni with cream, 
sugar, and cinnamtm, or a little varicelli 
added to thecream, makes a very nice sweet 
dish. Stt Maearom Pudding /or tht 
BoiHng of U. 

MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. 
Boil two ounces of macaroni in n pint of 
milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good 
bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swellnl to 
their utmost size withrat breaking. Lay 
them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard 
over them hot. Serve cold. 

MACARONI GRATIN. Uty fried 
bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your 
macaroni in the usual way, and pour it into 
the dish ; smooth it all over, and strew bread- 
crumbs 00 it, then a pretty thick layer of 
grated Parmesan cheene ; drop a little melt- 
ed butter on it, and co\af it with a salaman- 
dei*. 

MACA'kONI NAPOLITAINE. Boil 
two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in 
salt and water; then put it into a cullender 
to drain. Take tliree-qtiarters of a pound 
of cheese ffi*ated; put a layer of mav»roni, 
in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer 
of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alter- 
nately, till both are used up, making the 
cheese the top; pour over it some gravy, 
melt half a pound of fresh butter, and put on 
the whole. Sen'e it very liot. 



MACARONI TO SERVE. (1) Sim- 
mer it in a little stock, with pounded mace 
and salt. When quite tepder, take it out 
of tlie liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over it a 
good deal of clieese, then over tliat put h/ceoA 
grated very fine. Warm some butter with- 
out oiling, and pour it from a boat tlu'ougn 
a little earthen cullender all over die crums, 
then pot the dish in a Dutch oven to roast 
the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine 
color. Tlie bread should be in separate 
crums, and look light. 

MACARONI TO SERVE. (2) Wash 
it well, and simmer it in half milk, and 
half of veal or mutton stock, till the 
macaroni is tender; then take a spoonfiil 
of the liquor, put to it the yolk of an eg?, 
beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it 
hot to thicken, but do not let it boil ; pour 
it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old 
cheese all over it, and add bits of butter; 
brown it nicely with the salamander. 

MACARONI STEWED. Boil a quar- 

10* 



ter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till 
nearly done ; then* strain it, and add a gifl 
of cream, two ounces of butter, a table spoon- 
ful of the essence of ham, three ounces of 
giuted Parmesan cheese, and a little cayenns 
pepper and sah; mix them over a fire for 
five minutes, then put it on a dish, strew 
grated Paimesan cheese over it, smooth it 
over with a knife, and color it with a voy 
hot salamander. 

MACARONI TIMBALE. Take some 
pufif paste, roll it thin,-and cut it into narrow 
bands; twist each into a kind of cord, 
which place round the insides of buttered 
moulds, snail &shion ; fill each mould with 
macaroni, cover the tops with grated bread, 
and Parmesan clieese (equal quantities of 
each) ; put the Timbale* mto a warm oven, 
and bake them three-quarters of an hour ; 
then turn them on a dish, and serve. 

MACAROONS. Take a pound of sweet 
ulinonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a 
little rose-water to prevent Uieir oiling ; add 
a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites 
of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to 
the above ; beat all togedier for some time. 
Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop 
the mixture over it separately, tlie size of a 
shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little 
sugar, and bake tliem. 

MACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch a 
pound of sweet almonds, tluDw Uiem into 
cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a 
napkin to dry, and leave them lor twenty, 
four hours; at tlie end of that time, pound 
them, a handful at a time, adding occasion- 
ally some white of egg, till tlie wliole is re- 
duced to a fine paste ; then take two pounds 
of the he»t lump sugar, pound and sift it, 
tlien put it to the almonds, with tlie grated 
rinds of two lemons ; beat these ingredients 
together in tlie mortar, adding one at a time, 
as many eggs as you find necessary, to moist- 
en the paste, which if^ould be thin, but not 
too much so, as in that case it would run ; 
your paste beins ready, take out a little in a 
spoon, and lay the macaroons on jsheets of 
white paper either round or oval, as you 
please ; lay them at least an inch apart, be- 
cause they spread in baking, and if put near- 
er would touch. The whole of your paste 
bein^ used, place the sheets of paper on 
tins m a modemte oveo for tliree^uarters of 
an hour. 

This kind of cake requires great care and 
attention ; it will be well therefore to take 
notice of the following rules: 1. To mind 
that the almonds are perfectly diy before 
you begin to pound them. 2. Take ^neat 
care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed 
with the white of eg^, which would entirely 



MAC 



114 



MAI 



flpou tab ctnot of the ibschfooiiS) tatdpttftxA 
tneir rising in the oven ; to avoid this, open 
eadi fl^nrately, and if perfectly fresh, divfde 
the yoK and white with great care. 8. The 
ovexk must be no more than moderately heat- 
ed, nothing being more liable to bom than 
almonds and sugar ; by the least negligence 
in this respect, the sorrace would be barned, 
whilst the inside would remain unbaked. 
The best method to obviate any mischief of 
this sort: — put two or three macaroons into 
the oven to try it; leave them in the usual 
time ; and if, when you take them out, they 
are of a cleair yellow, the oven is property 
heated, and the whole of the macaroons may 
then be pot in. 

MACKEREL, TO CHOOSE. Their 
gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, 
and the whole fish stiff and bright ; if the 
gills are of a faint color, the fish limber and 
wrinkled, they are not fipesh. 

MACKEI^L BAKED. Cut off their 
heads, open them, and take out'the roes and 
clean tliem thoroughly ; rub them on the in- 
side with a little pepper and salt, put the 
roes in again, season them (with a mixture 
of poAvdered allspice, black pepper, and 
salt, well robbed together), and lay them 
close in a baking-pan, cover them with equal 
quantities of cold vinegar and water, tie 
them down with strong white paper doubled, 
and bake diem for an hour in a slow oven. 
They will keep for a fortnight. 

MACKEREL BOILED. This fish 
loses its life as soon as it leaves the sea, and 
tlie freslier it is the better. Wash and clean 
them thoroughly (the fishmongers seldom do 
tliis suificientlv), put tliem into cold water 
widi a handful of salt in it; let tliem radier 
simmer than buil ; a small mackerel will be 
done enough in about a quarter of an hour; 
when the eye starts and the tail splits, tliey 
are done ; do not let them stand in the wa- 
ter a moment after; they are so delicate 
that the heat of the water will break them. 

MACKEREL BROILED. Clean a fine 
laiige mackerel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and 
cut a long slit down the back ; lay it on a 
clean gridiron, over a vary clear, slow fire; 
when It is done on one side, turn it; be 
careful tliat it does not burn; send it up 
with .fennel sauce ; mix well together a 
little finely minced fennel and parsley, sea- 
scnied with a little pepper and salt, a bit of 
fi»9h batter, and wlien the mackerel are 
ready for the table, put some of this into 
each fish. 

MACKEREL, THE GEttMAN WAY. 

Split them down the back, and season them 



with pepper and salt; broil tiieai» wid 
with the following sauce; pick and wash 
some fennel, parsfey, mint, thyme, and green 
onions; but use only a small qoantity of each. 
Boil them tender in a little veal stock; then 
chop them up, and add to them tome firesh 
batter, the liqaor th^ were boiled in, some 
mted nutmeg, the jaioe of half a lemon, a 
little cayenne pe|M)er, and salt. Let it botf, 
thicken it with noor, and serve in a saooe 
boat. 

MADE DISHES. Be carefiil to trim 
off all the skin, gristle, &c. that wiQ not be 
eaten ; and shape handscMnely, and of even 
thickness, the various articles which compose 
your made dishes: this is sadly neglected by 
common cooks. Only stew them till they 
are just tender, and do not stew them to 
rass; therefore, what you [Mrepare the day 
before it is to be eaten, do not dress quite 
enough the first day. We have given re- 
ceipts for the most easyand simple way to 
make hashks, &c. Those who are weH 
skilled in culinaiy arts can dress up diings 
in this way, so as to be as agreeable as they 
were the first time they were cooked. 

MADELAINES. Take nine ounces of 
powder-sugar, eight of flour, the yolks oi 
four and six whole eggs, two spoonfuls of 
brandy, and a ffrain of salt ; pot these into 
a saucepan, stirring continually, until the 
paste diickens ; after which, stir only one 
minute; clari6( ten ounces of good fi^i but- 
ter, with which, butter about two and thirty 
madebine moulds, pour the remainder of tlte 
butter into your preparation; set it on a 
gentle stove, stir till it beginta to become li- 
<iuid, take it off before it has time to get too 
hot, put a little of this into each mould, and 
bake lliem in a moderate oven. 

MADELAINES IN SURPRISE. 

Make them in the usual way; when cold, 
cut a thin slice fi-om tlie bottom, take out 
nearly all the inside; pound four ooncee 
of blanched fiR)ert8,, mix tliem with eight 
spoonfuls of api'icot marmalade, which 
mixture put into the madelaines, and place 
the slice taken from the bottom, and serve 
them* 

MAITRE D'HOTEL, COLD. Put a 

quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, 
with some parsley and shallots, minoed small 
salt, whole pe(T{)er, and lemon-juice; mix 
the wbok) together with a wooden spoon. 
Pour the MaUre d'Hotel either over, un- 
der, or into whatever meat or fish you in- 
tend to serve. 

MAITKE D'HOTEL MAIGRE. Pol 

into some nicely melted butter a little choo- 



MAT 



115 



MIL 



pb3i paniW, nit, and lemoo-lfiioe; one or 
two miooed shaUota may be added, and heat 
it an together. 

MARCHPANE ROTAL. T^ike a 
pound^ of sweet ahnondd, blaiidi and throw 
th«n into cold water, drain and pound (hem, 
moistening with anng^^Uawvr and plain 
water^ but take care not to put too mucli at 
once. The ahnonds being redocod to a 
paste, put them into a preserving pan with 
naif a pound of powder snsar, set the pan 
on a moderate fire to dry die paste, which 
will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, 
it no longer sticks to your finger, then take 
it out and plaoe it on a plate or wafer paper, 
previously sprinkled with sugar: as soon as 
It is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your 
hand to the siae of your little finger; form 
them into rings, and lay them on iron grat- 
' ings, glaze and put them into a lynsk oven 
to color. The almve paste may also be em> 
ployed as follows: roll it out and cut it in 
naif, sprea/d over one piece apricot marma- 
lade, or any other preserve you plea.<«, cover 
it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, 
crescents. Sec, according to your &ncy, lay 
them on die grating as above, glaxe and co- 
lor them in a quick oven. 

MARJORAM, SWEET, TO PRE- 
SERVE. Beat up very well the white of 
an egg, then beat very fine and sift some 
douUe-refined suear; take some marjoram 
and rub it on a grass that is quite clean, and 
lay it in the form of the glass ; so do it with 
die egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and 
by it on paper to dry. 

MARMALADE. Marmalade may be 
composed of almost any fruits; the best, 
liowever, for this purpose ore, apricots, {leacJi- 
es, oranges, quinces, egg-plums, apples, kc. 
They are usually nmde by boilinff the fruit 
and sugar together to a kind ofpnlp, stir- 
ring them constantly whilst on the fire; it is 
kept in pots, which* must not be covered till 
the marmalade is quite cold. The propor- 
tion of sugar is half a pound to each pound 
of finit. 

Id* See Namet ofAriieUa, of which 
U is made. 

MARROW BONES. Chop die bones 
at each end so as to stand steady, then wash 
them clean, saw them in halves, cover the 
top with a floured cloth : boil them, and serve 
wiUi dry toast. 

MATELOTE MEAT. Take beef, veal, 
mutton, and pork, a larse slice of each, and 
a small one of leg of lamb ; cut them in small 
pieces, which put into a saucepan wjth equal 
quantities of stodL and champaign, salt and 



wpkm, eover them very cloae, and «t teft 
on hot ashes for six hours, dien serve it. 

BfEAD. (1) To eveiy galkm of inktt 
put four ^nds of honey, boil it an hour. 
Then put It into a tub wim some yeast on a 
toast ; cover it over. If it fcrmevrts welT a^ 
ter three or four days, draw it oflTclear, and 
put it into a cask, with one lemon riiced to 
every gallon ; add a bottle of brandy to eve* 
ry ten galbns. The rind of Seville onmges 
cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a 
great improvement to the flavor. It is best 
to wash the cask round with pnrt of die 
brandy, before the liquor is put in. 

MEAD. (2) One part of honey is dissolv* 
ed in three parts of water, and boiled over a 
moderate fire till it is reduced to two-thirds 
of the qmntity. It is dien skimmed, and 
put into a barrel, which must be quite fiill ; 
It is allowed to subside for three or four 
days, and tlien drawn off for use. To make 
it from the combe from which honey has been 
drained, they are to be beaten in warm wa- 
ter, and after the liquor has subsided, it is 
to be strained. The cottagers in Scotland 
make an excellent beer by adding a little 
yeast to the strained liquor, and albwing it 
to fernicnt, for a few days, in a cask, and 
ilien bottling it. 

MEAT CAKES. Take whatever meat, 
game, or poultrv, you may chance to have, 
(it is the better for bein? nnder*done) ; mince 
it fine, adding a little mt bacon or ham, or 
anchovy; season with a little pepper and 
salt ; mix the whole well together, and make 
it into small cakes, about Uiree iiKhes in 
len^h, an inch and a half in width, and half 
an inch thick ; fr^ them of a tight brown, 
and serve them with eood grav;^ ; or put it 
into a mould, and boil or l»ike it. 

MEAT, TO KEEP HOT. If your 
meat is done before ^ou are ready to serve, 
take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling 
water, put a deep cover over it, so as not to 
touch the meat, and dien pnt a cloth over 
that. This way will not dry up the gravy. 

MILK COFFEE FOR BREAKFAST. 
See Coffee, 

MILK PUNCH. (1) Beat up two 
eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, su- 
gar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste; 
poil it gentty, stirring n all me time till 
thick enough ; take it off' the fire a very few 
minutes, tlwn add to it a M\ quarter of a 
pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time 
the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. 

MILK PCNrH. (2) Eight pounds of re- 



MIN 



116 



MOO 



Ibed mgar are to be diaeolved in the Btreio- 
ed joioe of three dozen lemomi, and, when 
quite settled, two gallons of brandy, and two 
gallons and a half of cold water, are to be 
added, and also the lemon-peel; one gallon 
of boiUng milk being then poured over the 
ingredients, tlwy are to stand closely covered 
for twenty-four hours; when, being skimmed 
and run through a very thick jeUy4»g, it 
may be quickly bottled, and will be fit for 
immediate use; but it improves fay keeping. 

MINCED CX)LLOPS. This is a fa- 
vorite Scotch dish ; few families are with- 
out it: it ke^s well, and is alwavs ready to 
make an extra dish. Take beef, and cnop 
and mince it very small ; to which add some 
salt and pepper. Put this, in its raw state, 
into small jars, and pour on the top some clar- 
ified butter. Wheu intended (or use, put the 
clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice 
some onions into the pan, and ft}' them. Add 
a little water to it, and then put in the minced 
meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes 
it will be fit to serve up. See Collopa, 

MINCE MEAT. Two pounds of beef 
suet, picked and chopped fine ; two pounds 
of apple, pared, cored, and minced ; three 
pounds of currants, washed and picked ; one 
pound of raisins, stoned and chopped fine ; 
one pound of good moist sugar ; half a pound 
<^citron, and one pound of candied lemon 
and orange-peel, cut into thin slices; two 
pounds of rrady-dressed roast beef, firee from 
skin and gristle, and chopped fine; two nut- 
megs, grated; one ounce of salt, one of 
git>und, ginger, half an ounce of coriander 
raeds, half an ounce of allspice, half an oun<» 
of cloves, all ground fine; tlie juice of six 
lemons, and their rinds grated; luilf a pint 
of brandy, and a pint of sweet wine. Mix 
the suet, apples, currants, meat-plums, and 
sweetmeats, well together in a large pan, 
and strew in the spice by degrees; mix the 
sugar, lemon-juice, wine, and l)randy, and 
four it to the other ingredients, and stir it 
well U^ether; set it by in close-covered pans 
in a cold place: when wanted, stir it up fix>m 
the bottom, aud add half a glass of brandy 
to the quantity you require. N. B.— The same 
weight of tripe is fi^ueiitly substituted for 
the meat, and sometimes the yolks of eggs 
boiled hard. Oba. — ^The lean side of a but- 
tock, thoroughly roasted, is generally chosen 
for mince meat. 



MINUTEN FLEISH. 
leg of veal some slices as 
<^a knife, and about four 
son them with pepper and 
to a deep dish, pour over 
a pint ot white wine, let 
hoMirs. Cover the bottom 



^ Cut fixjm off a 
thin as the blade 
inches long; sea- 
salt, lay them in- 
them nearly half 
it Htand for three 
of a stewpau with 



batter, dredge each slice of the veal on both 
sides with flour; add a little more wine, 
and as much good white stock as will cover 
it, and the iuice (^a lemon. Cover the pan 
closely, and let it simmor five minutes, and 
serve it instantly, otherwise it wiU become 
hard. 

MOCK ARRACK. Dissolve two scru- 
ples of flowers of benjamin in a quart of 
good rum, and it will immediately impart 
to it the inviting fi-agranoe of *'Vau3dia]l 
nectar." 

MOCK BRAWN. Se€ Braxon, 

MOCK CAPER SAUCE. See Sauce 
CapeVm 

MOCK GOOSE, OR LEG OF PORK 
ROASTED WITHOUT THK Skin. Parboil 
it ; take off the skin, and then put it down 
to roast ; baste it with butter, and make a 
savory powder of finely minced, or dried 
and powdered sage, ground black pepper, 
salt, and some brrad-crumbs, rubbed togeth- 
er througti a colander; yon may add to this 
a little very finely minced onion: sprinkle it 
with this when it is almost roasted. Put 
half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and 
goose stuffing under the knuckle skin; or 
garnish the dish with balls of it fi*ied or 
boiled. 

MOCK ICE. Of preserved sti-awber- 
ries, raspberries, and red ciu'rant je''^, a 
tablenspoonfol each ; rub it through a sieve, 
with as much cream as will fill a shape ; 
ii.s-olve three-quarters of an ounce of istn- 
,^i}'..s in half a pint of water; when almost 
< 1)1(1, mix it well with the cream, put it into 
n slape, set it in a cool place, and torn it 
out tlie following day. 

MOCK TURTLE. See Soup Cairt 
Head. 

MOORFOWL, TO STEW. Truss 
diem, keepine on their heads, but draw the 
legs within tne body; mix well some salt 
and pepper witli flour and a piece of butter, 
and put a small bit iflto «u;h bird; 67 them 
all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown 
some butter and flour, and add to it some good 
gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and 
two cloves pounded; boil up the sauce, put 
in the moorfowl* and let them stew very 
slowly till tender. A little before taking 
them off the fire, add a table-spoonful of 
mushroom ketohup. If the biroB are old» 
stew them for two hours; if youn? ones, 
half that time. Cold roasted mo<niowl arc 
dressed exactly in the same way only cut 
into joints, and stev/ed very gently neai*ly aa 



MOS 



117 



M U S 



long. Half an boor before terving, a maU 
left-<»pftil of Port wine ihould be added. 

MUFFINS. (1) ISike one pint of milk 
quite warm, and a qnarter of a pint of thick 
emsdl-beer yeast ; stnin them Into a pan, and 
add saflknent ikmr to make it like a batter; 
covet it over, and let it ttand in a warm 
place antil it haa rSaen : tlien add a quarter 
of a pint <^ warm miBt, and one oonoe of 
butter nibbed in aome flour qnite fine; mix 
them weR tqgiedier s then add miBcient flour 
to make it into dough, cover it over, and 
let it ataad half an hour ; Ihen work it up 
again, and break it into amall pieces: roll 
them up quite round, and cover them over 
Ibraquatterof aahour; then bake them. 

MUFFINS. fS) Mix two pounds of 
iour with a couple of en^, two ounces of 
uutler melted in a plot of milk, and Ibur or 
five spoonfldi <ff yuat ; beat it llioroitthly, 
and set it to rise two or three houn. Bake 
it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn 
thorn, when dbne, on one side. 

MUl^FINS. (8) Taka two quarts of 
warm water, two ^Monflili of J^ast, three 
pounA of flour; beat it well ibr half an 
bour, add Lt it stand aft hour or two; bake 
them on an iYcn bakingnitove (rub it well 
over with mutton-suet as often as they ate 
bid on); as soon as they begin to color, 
tarn than; they w31 be aufilCMiilly baked 
when coloised on both sides. 

MULLAGATAtimVT. Boil sloWly in 
two quarts at water one pound of split peas, 
half an ounce of butter, two onions sliced, a 
little salt, cayenne, and two blades of mace. 
When the peas are tender, put in a lai^ 
fowl, cut in joints and skinned, two quarts 
of boiling water, or stock, if the soup be re- 
quired voy rich; twenty minutes before 
serving, add a large table spoonful of curry- 
powd^, and the same of ground rice. 

|t3^ ^^ Mullagatawniy Soup, tee 
Soup$, 

MUIiJBD WINE. Put info a pint of 
Port wine two or three cloves and a bit of 
cinnamon; boil it for a few moments; take 
out the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, 
and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a 
slice of toasted bread, the crust mred ofi", 
and cut into oblong pieces. The rort wine 
is sometimes boilea with a third of its quan- 
tiQr of water. 

MUSHROOMS, TO CHOOSE. The 
muriirooms proper to be used in cookery 
grow in the open pasture land, for those that 



jrrow near or under trees, are poisonous. 
The eatable muriirooms first appear very 
sBsall, and of a round form, on a little stalk. 
They grow very rapidly, and the upper part 
and snilk are white. As they increase in 
size, the under part gradually c^mds, and 
shows a fiinged fur of a very fine salmon co- 
lor, which continues more or less till tlm 
mushroom has gained some siae, and then 
turns to a dark brown. These marks should 
be attended to, and likewise whether the 
skin can be easily parted fitm the edge 
and middle, and wheUier th^ have a pleas- 
ant smell. Those which are poisonous hare 
a yellow skin, and the under part has not tlia 
clear flesh color of the real mushroom ; be- 
sides which, they smell rank and disagreea- 
ble, and the fiv is white or yellow. 

MUSHROOM KETCHUP. If yon 
fere good ketchup, sentle reader, make it 
yourself, after the following directions, and 
you will have a delicious relidi for made- 
dishes, ragouts, soups, sauces, or hashes. 

Mushroom gravy approaches the nature 
and flavor of meat grai^, more than any vege- 
table juice, and is the superlatire substioits 
for it: in mea^ soups and extempore gra- 
vies, the chemistry or the kitchen has yet 
contrived to agreeably awaken the palate, 
and encourage the i^petite. 

A couple of quarts of double ketdiup^ 
made according to the foHowing receipt, 
will save you some More' pounds of meat, 
besides a vast deal of time and trouble; as it 
will furnish, in a few minutes, as good sanca 
as can be made for either fish, fledi, or fowl. 

I believe the following is the best way of 
extracting and preparing tlie oep o noe of 
mushrooms, so as to procure and preserve 
their flavor for a considerable length of time. 

Look out for mushrooms firom the b^n- 
ninff of September. , 

Take care they are the right sort, and 
fiiesh gathered. Full-grown flaps are to be 
preferred: put a layer of these at the bottom 
of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them 
with salt; then ancuier layer of mushrooms, 
and some more salt on than ; and so on al- 
ternately, salt and mushrooms: let tliem re- 
main two or three hours, by which time the 
salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and 
rendoped them easy to break ; then pound 
them in a mortar, or mash them well with 
your hands, and let them remain for a couple 
of davs, not longer, stirring them up, and 
mashing them well each day ; then poor them 
into a stone jar, and to each quart add an 
ounce and a half of whole black pepper, and 
half an ounce of allspice; stop the jar very 
close, and set it in ajitewpan of boilin«r wa- 
ter and keep it boiling for two hours at least. 
Take out the jar, and pour the juice clear 



MU3 



118 



MUT 



from the setdings through a hair sieve (without 
■queezing the roushrooins) into a clean stew- 
pan; let it boil very gently for half an hour: 
those who are for superlative ketchup, will 
continue the boiling till the mushroom-juice 
is redu(^ to half the quantity ; it may then 
be called double cat-sup or dog-sop. 

There are several advantages attending 
this concentration ; it will keep much better, 
and only half the quantity be required; so 
you can flavor sauce, &c. without thinninff 
It: neither is this an extravagant way of 
making it, for merely the aoueous part is 
evaporated ; skim it well, ana pour it into a 
clean dr^ jar, or jug ; cover it close, and let 
it stand in a cool place till next day ; then 
pour it off as gently as possible (so as not to 
disturb the settlings at the bottom of the 
jus,) throuffh a tamis, or thick flannel bag, 
till it is perfoctly clear ; add a table-spoon- 
ful of good brandy to each pint of ketchup, 
and let it stand as before; a fresh sediment 
will be deposited, from which the ketchup is 
to be quietly poured off, and bottled in pmts 
or half pints (which have been washed with 
brandy or spirit): it is best to keep it in 
such quantities as are soon used. 

Take especial care that it is closely cork- 
ed, and sealed down, or dipped in bottle ce- 
ment. 

If kept in a cool, dry place, it may be 
preserved for a long time ; but if it be liadlv 
corked, and kept in a damp place, it will 
soon spoil. 

Examine it from time to time, by plac- 
ing a strong light behind the neck of the 
bottle, and if any pellicle appears about it, 
boil it up again with a few peppercorns. 

MUSHROOMS TO PICKLE. Cut 

off the stalks, and wash clean, m cold wa- 
ter, some small button mushrooms ; rub them 
with a bit of flannel, then throw them into 
fresh water, and when perfectly clean, put 
them into a saucepan with fresh cold water, 
and let them boil eight or ten minutes ; strain 
off the water, lay them into the folds of a 
cloth. Boil, in a quart of vinegar, a quarter 
of an ounce of pepper, the same of allspice, 
and two or three olades of mace, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; pHit the mushrooms into a 
jar, and when the vinegar is cold, pour it, 
with the spices, over them. 

MUSHR9OMS TO STEW. For a 
good-sized dish, take a pint of white stock, 
season it with salt, pepper, and a little lemon 
pickle, thicken it with a bit of butter rolled 
m flour; cleanse and peel the mushrooms, 

Srinkle them with a very little salt, boil 
em for three or four minutes, put them into 
the gravy when it is hot, and stew them for 
fifteen minutes. 



MUSTARD. Mix (by degrees, by rub^ 
bing together in a mortar) the best flour of 
mustard, with vinegar, white wine, or cold 
water, in which scraped horseradish has 
been boiled ; rub it well together for at least 
ten minutes, till it is peircctly smooth; it 
will keep in a stone jar closely stopped, for a 
fortnight : only pot as mnch into the mustard- 
pot as will be used in a day or two. Oba, — 
Mustard is the best of all the stimulants that 
are employed to give energy to the digestive 
organs. Some opulent epicures mix it with 
Sherry or Madeira wine, or distilled or fla- 
vored vinesar, instead of horseradish water. 
The Frendi flavor their mustard with Cham- 
paigne and other wines, or with vinegar fla- 
vored with capers, anchovies, tarragon, eldo*, 
basil, bomet, ^lic, eschalot, or celery, 
warming it with cayeniie, or die varioos 
spices; sweet, savory, fine herbs, truffles, 
ketchup, &c. &c., and seem to consider 
mustard merely as a vehicle of flavors. 

MUSTARD IN A MINUTE. Mix 

very gradually, and rob together in a mortar, 
an ounce of flour of mustard, with three ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of milk (cream is better), half 
a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of sugar ; 
rub them well together till quite smooth. 
06«. — ^Mustard made in this m inner is not 
at all bitter, and is therefore instantly ready 
for the table. 

MUTTON. . (1) llie pipe diat nins along 
the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton 
ought to be taken away; and if it is to be 
kept any length of time, the part ckise round 
the tail should be rubbed with salt, previously 
cutting out the kernel. 

It is best for the botdier to take out the 
kernel in the fat on the thick part of the k^, 
as that b the part most likely to become 
tainted. The chine and rib-bones should be 
wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the 
neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The 
brid(et changes firnt in the breast; therefore, 
if it is to be kept, it is best, shoyld the 
weather" be hot, to rub it with a little salt. 

When intended for roasting, it should hang 
as long as it will keep, the hind quarter 
particularly; but not so long as to become 
tainted. 

Mutton for boiling oueht not to hang 
long, as it will prevent its looking of a good 
color. 

The greatest care should be taken to pre- 
serve, by paper, the fiit of what is roasted. 

MUTTON. (2) As beef requires a laiige, 
sound fire, mutton must have a brisk and 
sharp one. If you wish to have mutton 
tender, it should be hung almost as long as 
it will keep; and then good eight-tooth, t. e. 



MUX 



119 



MUX 



hat yean old iihiUod, is as good eating as 
veoiacMD. 

The 1^, baoDcb, and saddle will be the 
better for being hung up in a cool airy place 
for four or five days at least ; in tonperate 
weather, a week ; in cold weather, ten days. 

A. L,€g, of eight pounds, will take about 
two hours: let it be well basted, and frothed. 

A Clone or Saddlty (t. e. the two loins) 
of ten or eleven jpounds, two hours and a 
half: it is the business of the batcher to take 
off the skin and skewer it on again, to defend 
the meat from extreme heat, and preserve its 
succulence ; if Uiis is neglected, tie a riieet 
of paper over it (baste t^ strings you tie it 
on with directly, or they will burn): about a 
quarter of an hour before yoa think it will 
be done, take off the skin or paper, that it 
may get a pale brown color, then baste it and 
ilour it lightly to froth it. N. B. Desire 
the butcher to cut off the flaps and the tail 
and chump end, and trim away every part 
tliat has not indisputable pretensions to be 
eaten. This will reduce a saddle of eleven 
pounds weight to about six or seven pounds. 

A Shoulder y of seven poimds, an hotir and 
a half. Put the spit in close to the shank- 
bone, and run it along tlie blade-bone. 
N.B. The blade-bone is a favorite luncheon 
or supp^ relish, scored, peppered and suit- 
ed, and broiled, or done m a Dutch oven. 

A Loin, of mutton, fi'om an hour and a 
half to an hour and three-qimrtei's. The 
most elegant way of carvins this, is to cut it 
lengtliwise, as you do a saddle. N. B. Spit 
it on a skewer or lark spit, and tie that on 
the common spit, and do not spoil the meat 
by running tlie spit tiirough the prime part 
of it. 

A Neek, about tlie same time as a loin. 
It must be carefully jointed, or it is very 
difficult to car\'e. The neck and breast are, 
in small (kmilies, commonly roiisted together ; 
the cook will then crack tiie bones across die 
middle before they are put down t6 roast: if 
this is not done carefully, they are very 
U'oublesome to carve. Tell die co»k, when 
slie takes it from the spit, to sei^arate them 
before slie sends them to table. N. B. The 
best way to spit this is to run iron skewers 
across it, and put the spit between them. 

A Breast, an hour and a quarter. 

MUTTON, BAKED WITH POTA- 
TOES. See Be^* 

MUTTON BREAST COLLARED. 
Bone it and take out all the j^ristles, 
msLke a forcemeat witli crumbs of bread, 
diopped parsley, a little lemon thyme, and 
one anchovy minced ; season with salt and 
white p^per, rub the mutton over with an 
egff b^ten up, cover it with the forcemeat, 
roU it firmly ; tie it with tape, and put it on 



in boiling water. Make a good gravy ti/t 
the bones, two onions, a bunch of parsley 
and lemon thyme, pepper and salt; strain 
and thicken it with a niece of butter mixed 
with flour. A little before serving, add a 
table-spoonfol of vinegar and two of mush- 
room ketchup. Garmsh with cut lemcm or 
pickles. 

MUTTON, BREAST, ROASTED 

WITH Wine. Skin and boof a breast of 
mutton, then roll it up in a collar like a 
breast of v^. Roast it, and baste it with 
half a pint of red wine ; when you have used 
up all the Wine, finish basting with butter. 
Have a little good gravy in readiness, and 
wlien the mutton is done, set it upright in a 
dish, pour in tlie gravy, prepai'e sweet sauce 
the same as for venison, and send it up to 
table wiUiout any garnish. 

MUTTON BROTH. Cut a neck of 
mutton iiMP pieces, preserving a handsome 
piece to be served up in the tureen ; put all 
into a stewpan widi three quarts of cold beef 
stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed 
in it ; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut 
in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and 
pai'sley. Wlien it boils, skim it clean, and 
when nearly done, take out tlie piece you in- 
tend to serve in the tureen, and let tlie other 
pieces stew till tender ; then have ready tur- 
nips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a 
cabbage, some parsley, all cut small, and 
some marigolds ; wash diem, strain the li- 
quor off the meat, skim it free from the fixi, 
add it to the ingredients with the piece of 
mutton intended for the tureen, adding a lit- 
tle peai'l barley. Season with salt, simmer 
all togetlier till done, and serve with toastej^ 
bread on a plate. 

MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops 
off a loin or the best end of a neck of mntton, 
pare off the fet, dip dicm into a l)eaten egg, 
and strew over them grated bread, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and some finely minced 
parsley; fry them in a little butter, and lay 
diem upon tlie hack of a sieve to drain be- 
fore the fire. Thicken about half a pint of 
gravy, add a table-spoonful of ketchup, and 
one of Port wine; put die gravy into Uie dish, 
and lay in the chops; garnish with fried 
parsley or cut lemon. 

MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Cut a 
neck of mutton into neat chops, season them 
with salt and pepper, butter a dish, lay in 
the chops and pour over them a batter made 
of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four 
tabloHBpoonfols of flour, and a little salt. An 
hour will bake them. 

MUTTON CHOPS MAINTENON. 



MUT 



120 



MUT 



Oit a neck of mutton into chops; beat them 
flat with a rolling-pin. Bruise the yolk of 
a bard4x»iled egg, and mix with it chopped 
fweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and 
pepper. Cover the steaks with it, and put 
each into a piece of well-buttered paper; 
broil them over a clear fire, turning them of- 
tm. Serve them in the paper, or with a 
browned gravy. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut into cut- 
lets a pound and a half of the thick part of 
a leg of mutton, and beat them; mix with 
srated bread crumbs, some pepper, salt, and 
finely chopped paralev, lemon thyme, and 
sweet marjoram. Rub the cutlets with melt- 
ed butter, and cover them thickly with the 
prepared bread ; fry them for ten minutes in 
Dutter, then put tliem into a saucepan with 
some good gravy thickened with flour and 
butter, and simmer them fin* ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

MUTTON FILLET, STEWED. Put 

a fillet of mutton or a piece of be^, weigh- 
ing about seven pounds, into a stewpan, with 
a carrot, a turuip, an onion stuck with two 
or three cloves, and a pint of water. Put 
round the edge of the stewpan, a rim of 
coarse paste, that the cover may be kept 
very close, and let it stew gently, three hours 
and a half; take out die meat, ddm ofl" the 
£it, strain and thicken the gravy, have ready 
some boiled carrots and turnips cut to fimcy, 
add them to the gravy, make all hot, and 
serve with a garnish of sliced gherkins. 

MUTTON CUTLETS Breaded ahd 
Broiled. Trim and season your cutlets 
with pepper and salt, pot thein into some 
melted butter, and when they have imbibed 
a sufficient quantity of it, take them out, and 
cover them completely with bread crumbs; 
give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them 
over a clear fire ; take care not to do the cut- 
lets too much, to burn the bread. 

MUTTON GRAVY FOR VENISON 
OR Hare. The best gravy for venison is 
tliat made with the ti-immings of the joint: 
if diis is all used, and you have no undressed 
venison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces; 
broil it a little brown ; then put it into a 
clean stewpan, ^idth a quart of boiling wa- 
ter ; cover it close, and let it simmer gmtly 
for an hour: now uncover the stewpan, and 
let it reduce to three-quarters of a pint ; pour 
it through a hair-sieve ; take the fet ofl", and 
send it up in a boat. It is only to be sea- 
soned witn a little salt, tliat it may not over- 
power the natural flavor of die meat. 

MUTTON, T9 HASH. Cut the meat 
into thin slioe^j^ trim ofi" all the sinews, skin. 



ffrisde, &c, ; pot in nothinff but what is to 
be eaten, biy them on a pfate, ready; pre* 
pare your sauce to warm it in, put in ^ 
meat, and let it simmer gently till it is thor- 
ouriily warm: do not let it boil, as diat wiL 
midce die meat touch and hard, and it will 
be a harsh, instead of a hash. Select for 
your hadi those parts of the joint (hat are 
least done. Hashing is a mode of cookery 
by no means suitecf to delicate tHoBoatdta: 
unless the meat, be eonstdenJbly under-doaa 
the first time, a second dressfaig must spcnl 
it, far what is done enough me first time, 
must be done too much the second. 

MUTTON HAM, TO CURE. Cw a 

hind quarto- of good mutton into the shape <^ 
a ham, pound one oimce of saltpetre, witii 
one pound of coarse salt and a quarter of a 
pound of brown sugar, rub the ham weU with 
this mixture, takins care to stuff the hole of 
the shank well with salt and sosar, and let 
it lie a fi»tni§^t, rubbing it well with the 
pickle every two or three days ; then take 
It out and {xress it with a weight for one 
day; smoke it with saw-dust for ten or fi(^ 
teen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. 
If the i^un is to be boiled soon after it has 
been smoked, soak it one hour, and if it has 
been smoked any ImgUi of time it will re- 
quire to be soaked several hours. Put it on 
in cold water, and boil it gentfy two hours. 
It is eaten cold at breakfast, lunchecm, or 
supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured 
with the above quantity of salt^and sugar, 
with the addition of hau an ounce of pepper,- 
a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and one nut- 
meg. 

MUTTON HAUNCH, LIKE VENI- 
SON. Take a (aI haunch of large fine 
mutton, let it hang a week, then pound 
one ounce of black, and one ounce of Jamai- 
ca pepper, and i\ib them over the mutton, 
pom* a bottle of Port wine ova* it, and let it 
remain iii this five days, bastin? it fi^equent- 
ly every day with the liquor, Vute it out and 
bang it up four or five days more, or as long 
as the weather &vorB its keeping; wipe it 
three or four times a day widi a clean cloth. 
While it is roasting baste it with die liqucn* 
it was steeped in, adding a little more Port 
wine ; a Quarter of an hour before taking it 
firom the nre, baste it well with butter, and 
dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve^it 
with sauces as for venison. 

MUTTON HAUNCH. It should 
be kept sm ]on^ as you can possibly keep It 
sweet by the different modes; and if neoe»- 
sary, wadi it with warm mUk and water, 
or vinegar, and when going to be dressed, be 
careful to wash it well, to jHievrat the out- 
side tcom having a bad flavor from keying; 



MUT 



131 



MUT 



boiore you pot dw hBineh to the fire, fcid it 
IB a poflte M eoane floor, or •trong P*pv> 
then set it a |ood distance from the fire,and 
allow proportiooable time for the paste; do 
not take it off, till about thirty-five or forty 
minstes before sonring the mutton, and then 
baste oontinoally; bnog the haunch nearer 
before taking on the paste, and froth it op 
in the same maimer as veniscm. For gravy, 
take a pound and a half of kin of mutton, 
and simmo* it in a pint of wator till reduced 
to half, use no seastmiag but salt: brown it 
with a little burnt sugar, and sorve it up in 
the dish; but ibem should be a good deal of 
gravy in the meat, for though k>ng at the fire, 
the covering and distance will prevent its 
roasting out. Serve with currant-jeliy sauce. 

MUTTON LEG. (1) If your leg 
of mutton is roasted, serve with onion ur 
currant-jelly sauce ; if it is boiled, s«rve with 
caper sauce and vegetables. In roasting or 
boiling, a quactier of an hour is umally allow- 
ed for each pound of meat. 

MUTTON LEG. (2) Gut off the shank 
bcme, and trim the knuckle, put it into luke- 
warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, 
cover it with cold water, and let it simmer 
very gently 9 and skim it carefolly. A leg 
of nine pounds will take two and a half or 
three hours, if you like it thorou^ly done, 
especially in very cold weather. 

The tU'biU with an epicure are the 
" knuckle," tlie kernel, called the **pope*M 
eye,** and the " gentleman**** or " cramp 
bone.** 

When mutton is very large, you mav di- 
vide it, and roaet the fillet, i. e. the large 
end, and beU the knuckle end; vou may 
also cut some fine cutlets off the thick end 
of the leg, and so have two or three good 
hot dinner*. 

The Uquor the muUon w boiled in, you 
may convert into good soup in five minutes, 
and Scotch barley broth. Thus managed, a 
1^ of mutton is a most economical joint. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED. Make 
a stuffing with a little beef-suet chopped, 
some parsley, thyme, mar)<Nram, a little 
grated Iraoon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, 
and a few bread crumu, mix all together 
with the yolk of an egg, put this under the 
skin in the thickest part of a 1^ of mutton 
under the flap; then roast it, and serve it to 
table with some good gravy in the dish. 

MUTTON LEG STUFFED with 
Otstebs. Make a forcemeat of beef-suet, 
diopped small, the yolks of hard boiled egga, 
with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, 
savory, and some oysters, a dozen or fouiteoi, 

11 



an eat fine, aona nk, pepper, grafed mt- 
mqf, ai)d crumbs of brand, mfawd im with 
rawegga; put this fi>roaneat ander the skin 
m the thickest part of theleg of mutton, on* 
der the flap, and at the knuckle. Forsaaoe, 
some oyster-liquor, a little red wine, aa an- 
chovy, and some more oysters slewed, and 
served under the mutton. 



MUTTON LOIN. Roast it; 
people think iteaCB much better if cut length- 
ways like a saddle. It may also be used 
for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care 
to art off as much fiit as possiUe. 



MUTTON LOIN, STEWED. Bone 
and skin the loin; stew it in a pint of 
water, turning it fiwqueotly; when the li- 
quor is half wasted, take out die loin and 
strain it, and when cold take off the fiu; 
make a rich highfy-seasoned gravy <]i the 
IxMies; strain ai^ mix it with Uie liquor the 
loin was stewed in; add a tea-cupful of 
Port wine, and some small mushrooms 
thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour 
put in the mutton, and heat it thorov^ly 
garnish with pickles. 



MUTTON NECK. (1) This joint is 
particularly usefol, as so many dishes may 
be made of it. The bone ought to be cut 
short. 

The best end of the neck may be boiled, 
and served with turnips ; or if you think 
proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in 
steaks, <Nr made into pies, or used for harrioo. 

You may stew the scrags in broth ; or in 
a little water, with small onions, some pep- 
percorns, and a small quantity of rice, all 
served together. 

When you wish that a neck which is to 
be boiled mould look particularly vmll, saw 
down the chine bone, strip the ribs half 
way down, and chop off tne eada of the 
bones, about four incnes. 

To make the fat look particularly white, 
die skin should not be taken off till it is 
boiled. 

The &t belonging to the neck or loin of 
mutton, if d>op|»d very fine, makes a most 
excellent suet-pudding, or crust for a meat 
pie. 

MUTTON NECK. (2) Put fow or 
five pounds of the best end of a neck (that 
has been kept a few days) into as much cold 
soft water as will cover it, and about two 
inches over ; let it simmer veiy slowW for 
two hours: it will look most delicate if you 
do not take off the skin till it has been boil- 
ed. 

MUTTON PASTY, to bat as piom 



MUX 



122 



MUX 



▲8 Vknison. Xake a fat- loin of mutton, 
and let it bang for geveral days, then bone ii. 
Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub 
ten poandfl of meat with a quarter of a pound 
of tugar, and pour ov4Hr.it ofle glass of Port, 
and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie fix* fi%'e 
days and five nights ; after which, wash and 
wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly 
with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. 
Lay it in yoor dish, and to ten pounds put 
one pound oi butter, spreading it over the 
meat. Put a crust round the edge of the 
dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise 
it will be over-done before the meat is soak- 
ed ; it must be baked in a slow oven. 

Put tiie bones in a pan in the oven, with 
just «ufficient water to cover them, and one 
glass of Port, a«maU quantitv of pepper and 
salt ; by this means you will have a little rich 
gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. 
' Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, 
and a better flavor than salt, too great a 
quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar 
is quite as great a preservative. 

MUXXON POLPE TXES. Xake the 
lean of an^ joint of cold roasted mutton, pare 
off the skin, and mince the meat with a little 
grated bacon and calf's udder; season M'ith 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and 
parsl^, shred small; unite them togetlier 
wid) the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve 
or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, 
and bread them twice. Flatten these balls 
a little, and fry them in clarified butter; 
when done, drain and place tliem on the 
dish. Serve them with tomato sauce or 
glaze. 

MUXXON, ROLLED. Bone a shoulder 
of mutton careftilly, so as not to injure the 
skin, cut all the meat from the skin, mince 
it small, and season it highly with pepper, 
nutmeg, and a clove, some parsley, lemon 
thyme, sweet maijoram chopped, and a 
pounded onion, all well mixed, together with 
a well-beaten yolk of an egg; roll it up vei^ 
tightly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it 
in an oven two or three hours, according to 
the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the 
bones and parings, season with an onion, 
pepper and salt, strain and thicken it with 
flour and butter; add vinegar, mushroom 
ketcliup, soy, and temon pickle, a table- 
qxx>nful of each, and a tea-cupful of Port 
wine; garnish with forcemeat balls, made 
of grated bread, and part of the mince. 

MUXXON, COLD shoulder broil- 
ed. A cold shoulder of roast mutton having 
only a little meat upon tlie blade bone, may 
be scored, sprinkled with pepper and salt, 
then broiled and served with caper sauce 



poured over it, or melted butter, in which 
should be mixed of mushroom ketchup, lemon 
pickle, and Harvey sauce, a table-spooniiil 
each. 

MUXXON SHOULDER, BAKED. 
Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked 
bacon, put it into an earthen slewpan pro- 
portioiied to the sise of the joint of meat, 
with two or three diced onions, a parsnip 
and carrot sliced, one clove of rarlic, two 
ck>ve8, half a bay-leaf and some oasil; add 
about a quarter of a pint of vtrater or stock 
(stock is the best), some salt and pepper; 
put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an 
oven. When the meat is done, strain the 
sauce through a sieve, and skim it, sq leezing 
the v^etables so as to make a thickening fur 
your sauce: serve the sauce with the meat. 

MUXXON SHOULDER, SXEWED. 
(1) Bone a shoulder of mutton with a 
sharp knife, and fill the space with the fol- 
lowing stuffing: — grated bread, minced suet, 
parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; bind 
witli the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Sew or fasten it with small skewers ; Irown 
it in a frying-pan with a bit of butter. Break 
the bone, put it into a saucepan, with some 
water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch 
of parnley; let it slew till the strengdi be 
extracted ; strain, and thicken it with butter 
rolled in flour ; put it, with the mutton, and 
a glass of Port wine, into the saucepan ; cover 
it closely, and let it stew gently fbr two 
hours. Before serving, add two table-spoon- 
fuls of mushroom ketchup. Garnish with 
pickles. 

MUXXON SHOULDER, SXEW- 
ED. (2) Bone and flatten a shoulder 
of mutton, sprinkle over it pepper and 
salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and 
put it into a stewpan that will just bold it, 
pour over it a well-seasoned gravy made with 
the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it 
stew till tender; before serving, take off rl e 
tape, thicken the gravy, and gamisli widi 
cut pickles. 

MUXXON SXEAKS, BROILED. Cut 
some mutton steaks from the loin, about 
half an inch thick, take off the skin, and part 
of the &t. As soon as the gridiron is hot, 
rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks 
(place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn 
the steaks frequently ; when they aps done, 
put them into a hot dish, rub them with 
a little butter; slice a shallot very thin into 
a spoonful of water, and pour it on them; 
add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped 
horse-radish, and picktes, and aead them up 
hot to table. 



NOU 



12S 



OAT 



N. 



NAPLES CURD. Pot into a <|uurt of 
new milk a «dck of cinoamon, boil it a few 
minutes, take out the cinnamon, and stir in 
eifflit well-beaten eggt, and a table-epoonful 
of white wine; nwa it boik again, strain 
it through a siere; beat the curd in a basin, 
together with about half an ounce of butter, 
two tidil&«pooafuls of orange-flower water, 
and pounded sugar sufficient to sweeten it. 
Put It into a mould for two hours befoie it 
is salt to taUe. White wine, snsar, and 
cream, may be mixed together, and poured 
round the curd ; or it may be served in a 
sauce tureen. 

NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. As soon 
as the bkiflsoms are off, gathor die little 
km^ ; put them into cold water with some 
ealt; shift them once a day for three soc- 
oessive days; make a cold pickle of white 
wine vinegar, a little white wine, riiallot, 
pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- 
ters, and hone-nidi^ ; and put your nastur- 
tium buds into this pickle. 

NEAT'S TONGUE Fresh, iv a 
Plain Wat. Lard a ton|||iie with tolera- 
ble-siaed brdons, and boil it in broth, or in 
water, with a few onions and roots ; when 
it is done, peel it, and Bene it with broth, 
8prinklin|f it over with a little pmer and 
salt; it 18 also used without lutiing, and 
being boiled finesh in this manner, is consid- 
ered very good for mince-pie meat. 

NEAT'S TONGUE, RoASTSD, A la 
Frahcaisk. Boil a neat's tonsue, and 
Uandi it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a 
bole in the under part, and take out the 
meut, miooe it with two or three hard egj^, 
an apple, beef-eoet, and bacon ; season with 
salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred 
very fine; stoff the tongue with this force- 
meat ; then cover the end with a veal caul, 
lard it with bacon, and roast it; serve with 
a sauce made of ^vy, butter, and the juice 
of oranges, gamudi the dish with sliced lem- 
on-ped and barbenries. 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them 
well, cut each into five slips, which place in 
a gentle oven to dry; let than be all equally 
oowred of a clear yellow; in the meantime, 
put threeHjuarters of a pcnind of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, stir- 
ring with a wooden spoon until completely 
dissolved ; then take the almonds out of the 
oven, and whilst hot throw them into the li- 
quid sugar ; mix them togetlier well. Have 
ready a mould well oiled, of any shape you 



think proper, in the interior of whiefa pine 
the slips of almonds, by means of lema»jiiioe» 
when the whole is covered, remove the moold 
carefiilly, and serve the Nougot, 

NOYAU. (1) Peaches and nectarines, 
in equal quantities, are to be braised, the 
stones broken, and the kernels Hanrhed and 
bruised ; they aro then to be put into a jar 
in layen, one of frait, one of keraels, imd 
<Hie of pounded loaf sugar, and so oo until 
the jar is fell; as mixh white brandy is 
dien to be added as the jar will hoM; and 
when it has stood for five or six moodw, it 
is to be filtered and bottled for use. 

NOYAU. (2) One pound of bittei- aU 
monds, blanched, is to be steeped three 
months in four quarts of hurge^ili proof 
whisky, or pale brandy, four pounds or loaf 
sugar are then to be chritied and added to 
the strained er filtered spirits, together with 
half a pint of pure honey. It is somrtinw^ 
colored with a little cochineal; and may 
also be made, allowing three parts of sweet* 
and one of bitter almonds. 

NOYAU. (8) The rinds of diiee large 
lemons, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
<Mie ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded, are to be mixed into a quart of the 
best Holhinds gin, three taUe-spoonfiils of 
boiling milk being added. It is to be put 
into a bottle or jar, and shaken eveiy dav 
for three weeks, and then filtered throqgn 
chamois leather or blotting paper, when it 
will be fit for use. 



O. 



OAT CAKES— are nnde in the same 
manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal in- 
stead of flour, and three gallons of water in- 
stead of two: poll the dou^h into pieces, 
roll and finish the cakes as du«cted for muf- 
fins. When wanted, puU the edges apart, 
toast them nicely on noth sides, and then 
open them completely; lay in small pieces 
of butter, until you have as much as you may 
want; close them again, set them befiuv 
die fire, and cot each in halves or quarters. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Boil some 
wator in a saucepan with a little salt, and 
stir oatmeal into it with a thevil ; when of 
a proper thickness, let it boil for four or 
five minutes, stirring it all the time ; then 
pour it into a dish, and serve with it cream 
or fiiilk. It is sometimes eaten with porter 
and sugar, or ale and sugar. If made with 
milk instead of water, Itts meal is requisite* 
and it is then eaten with cold inilk« 



0MB 



IM 



OME 



OLIVE ROYALS. BoU one pound of 
petMocv, and wiien nearly cold rob them 
perfectly moodi with fimr oonoes of floor 
and one ounce of batter, and knead k to- 
gether till it become a paste; roll it out 
about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
rounds, bdA hcj upon one eide ^any sort of 
cold raaeted meat cut Into thin small bite, 
and seasoned with pepper and sah; pot a 
▼ery small bit of butter over it, wet the 
edMs, and close the paste in the finm of a 
hatt circle. Fry them in boiling fresh drip- 
ping of a KghtDrown cokv; lay them be- 
IcNnetfae fire, on the back ofs. sieve, to drain. 
Serve them with ot without gravy m the 
dish. For a change, mince the meat, and 
season it as before directed. The potatoes 
should be very mealy. 

OLIVES. There are three sorts, the 
Italian, Spanish, and Frendi; they may 
be had of various sixes and &▼««, some 
prefer one sort, and some another. 

The fine salad oil is made from this fruit, 
for which purpose they are gathered ripe; 
for pickling th^ are gadiered when only 
half ripe, at the hitter end of June; th^ are 

St into fresh water to soak for a couple of 
ys; after this«tb^ are thrown into lime- 
water, in vdiieh some pearl-ashes have been 
dlsBolved ; in this liquor they lie for six and 
tbirtyhoiHrs; they are then put into water 
which has had baysak dissolved in it; this 
is the last preparation, and they are sent 
over to us in this liqnor; th^ are naturally, 
as they grow on die tree, extrraoely bitter, 
and tlierefore all these preparations are nec- 
essary to bring them to their fine flavor. To 
some olives tl^ add a small (^tuinti^ of es- 
sence of spices, which is an oil drawn from 
cfeves, nutmeg, cinnamon, coriander, and 
sweet fennel-s^ distilled together for that 
pnpose; twelve drops are sufficient for a 
Dushel of olives; some prefer them flavored 
vrith this essence. 

OMELETS AND yARious ways 
or DRESsiHG E608. There is no dish 
which may be considered as coming under 
the denomination of a made dish of the sec- 
ond order, which is so generally eaten, if 
good, as an omelet; and no one is so aitea 
badly dressed: it is a very faithfid assistant 
in the construction of a dinner. 

When you are taken bv surprise, and wish 
to make an appearance b^ond what is (Hto- 
vided for the every-day dinner, a little port- 
able soup melted down, and some zest and a 
few vegetables, will make a good broth ; a 
pot of stewed veal wanned up; an omelet; 
and some apple or lemon firitters, can all be 
got ready at ten minutes notice, and with 
the Mriginal foundation of a 1^ of mutton, or 
a piece of beef, will make up a very good 



dinner when company unexpectedly airives^ 
in the country. 

The great merit c^ an omelet is, that it 
■hoold not be g^n^* ban*, nor too much 
done: iftoo miKhof thewhiieof theegsaia 
left in, no art can prevent its being hara, if 
it is done: to dress the oBsslet, the fire 
should not be too hot, as it is an object to 
have the whole substance heate d , without 
modi browning the outside. 

One of the great errors in cooking an 4nb- 
det is, that it is too thin; consequently, in- 
stead of feeling foil and moist in the mouth, 
the substance presented is little bettor than 
a piece of fi-ied leadier: to get the omelet 
thick is one of the great objectt. With re- 
apect to the flavors to be introdnoed, these 
are infinite; that which is most ctmimon,. 
however, is the best, tub. finely chopped 
parsley, and chives or onions, or eschsJots: 
iiowever, one made of a mixture of tarragon, 
chervil, and parsley, is a veiy delicate va- 
riety, omitting or adding the onion or chives. 
Of the meat flavors, tte veal kidney is the 
most delicate, and is the most admired by 
the French: this should be cut in dice, and 
diould be dressed (boiled) before it is added; 
in the same manner, ham and anchovies, 
shred small, or ton^, will -make a very 
delicately flavored dish. 

rnie objection to an omdet is, that it is 
too rich, which makes it adrisable to eat 
but a snttdl quantity. An addition of some 
finely madied potatoes, about two table- 
spomifids, to an omelet of six ^gs, will 
much lighten it. 

Omefets are often served with rich gra- 
vy ; but, as a general principle, no substance 
which t»s been firied oiould oe served in gra- 
vy, but aooompiuried by it, or what ought to 
eat dry and crisp, becomes soddened and 
flat. 

In the compounding the gsaw, great care 
shoidd be tak^ that-ue flavor does not over- 
come that of the omelet, a thing too little 
attended to: a fine gravy, with a flavoring 
of sweet herbs and onions, we think the best ; 
scMne add a few drops <^ tarragon vinegar ; 
J3ut this is to be done only wim great care: 
gravies to omelets are in general thicken- 
ed: this should never be done with floor; 
potato starch, or arrow-root, is the best. 

Omelets should be fried in a small fiy- 
ing-pan made for that purpose, with a small 
quantity of butter. The cMnelet's great 
merit is to be thidiL, so as not to taste <» the 
outside; therefore use only half the number 
of whites that you do yoKs <^ eggs: every 
care ninst be ttiken in frying, even at the 
risk of not havinp^ it quite set in the middle: 
an omelet, which has so much vc^;ua 
abroad, is here, in general, a thin doubled- 
up piece of leathor, and harder than soft 
leather somefimes. The feet is, that as nnicfa 



OM£ 



125 



ONI 



care most be beelowed oo the fiybg, as 
should be taken in pouching an egg. A 
eabmaader is neoesHury to moee who will 
have the top brown; birt the kitdwa shovel 
may be mhetitnted fiNr it. 

The foUowin^ receipt is die baaie of all 
omelets, c^ which ^oa may make an end- 
less ▼ariety, by takmg, instead of the pars- 
ley and eschalot, a portion of sweet herbs, 
or any of the articles used for making force- 
meats, or any of the fiNPoemeats. 

Omelets are called by the name 6t what 
is added to flavor them: a ham or tongue 
omelet; an anchovy, or veal kidney ome- 
let, &c. : these are prepared exactly in the 
same way as in the finrt receipt, leaving out 
the parsKv and eschalot, and mincing the 
ham or kidney very fine, &c., and adding 
^at in the place of them, and then pour over 
them all sorts of thickened gravies, sauces, 
&c. 

OMELET. (1) Five or six eggs wiU 
make a goodnsised omelet; break them 
into a basin, and beat them well with a fork ; 
and add a salt-spoonful of sak; have ready 
chopped two drachms of onion, or three 
dt-achms of parsley, a good clove of eschalot 
minced very fine; beat it well up with the 
eggs ; then take four ounces of fresh butter, 
and break half of it into large bits, and put 
it into tlie omelet, and the otlier half into 
a very clean frying-pan ; when it is melted, 
pour In the omelet, and stir it with a spoon 
till it begins to set, then turn it up all round 
tlie edges, and wh«i it is (^ a nice brown it 
is done: the safest way to take it out is to 
put a plate on the omelet, and turn the pan 
upside-down: serve it on a hot dish; it 
should never be done till ^ust wanted. If 
maigre, grated cheese, shrimps, or oysters. 
If oysters, boil them four minutes, and take 
away the beard and gristly pait; they may 
either be put in whole, or cut in bits. 

OMELET. (2) Beard and parboil twelve 
or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few 
peppercorns, strain and chop them; beat 
well six eg^; parboil and mince a little 
parsley ; mix all t<^ether, and season with a 
little nutmeg, salt, and a table-spoonful of 
mushroom £etchup; fry it lightty in three 
ounces of butter, and hold it for a minute or 
two before the fire. 

OMELET. <8) Beat well and strain six 
eggs ; add them to three ounces of butter 
made hot ; mix in some grated ham, pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives and 
parsley. Fry it of a light wown toktr. 

OMELET. (4) Take as many e^ as 
you think proper (according to the size of 
your omelet) break them into a basin with 

11* 



some tah and chopped parsley; then beat 
them well, and season them according to 
taste, thai have ready some onion dbopjpeA 
small ; put some butter into a fiying-pan, and 
when it is hot (but not to bom) put in voih 
chopped onion, giving them two or three 
turns ; then add your eggs to it, and firy the 
whole of a nice brown, yon most only try 
one side. When done, turn it into a dish, 
the filed side uppermost, and serve. 

OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or 
three thin omelets, adding a little sweet ba- 
sil to the usual ingredients; cot them into 
small pieces and roll them into the (ban of 
olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or 
enclose them in puflf paste; firy, and serve 
them with fi'ied parsley. 

OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF 
VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs, add a 
little sak, and part of a cold roasted kidney 
of veal, finely minced ; season with pepper, 
and a littfe more salt ; mek in a frvmg-pan 
one ounce and a half of butter, and pour in 
the omelet ; fry it gendy, and keep the mid- 
dle part moist ; when done, roll it equally 
upon a knife, and serve it very hot. 

OMELET AU NATUREL. Break 

eisht or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, 
salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat them 
up with a wliisk ; in the meantime put some 
fi-esh butter into a frying-pan, when it is quite 
melted and nearly boiling, put in the egm, 
&c. with a skimmer; as it is fiying, take 
up the edges, that they may be properly 
done ; when cooked, double it ; serve very 
hot. 

ONIONS. The small round silver button 
onions, about as big as a nutmeg, make a 
very nice pickle. Take off their top coats, 
have ready a stewpan, three parts filled with 
boiling water, into which put as many on- 
ions as will cover the top: as soon as they 
look clear, immediately take tliem up with 
a spoon full of holes, and lay them on a cloth 
three times folded, and cover them with 
another till you have ready as many as ^ou 
wish: when they are quite dry, put them into 
iars, and cover them with hot pickle, made 
uy infusing an ounce of horseradish, same of 
allspice, and same of black pepper, and same 
of salt, in a quart of best white-wine vinegar, 
in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of the 
fire for three days, keeping it well closed ; 
when cold, buue them down tight, and cover 
them with bladder wetted with the pickle 
and leather. 

ONIONS STEWED. The brae Por- 
tugal onions are the best: take off the top- 
coats of half a dozen of diese (taking care 



ONI 



136 



OltA 



•91 to art off the tops or tails too near, or 
tbe (nioas will so to pieoes)> and put them 
ioto a itewpui oroad enov^ to bold tbem 
without laying them atop of one another, 
and JiMt cover them with good broth. Put 
tbem over a slow fire, and let them firomer 
about two houra; when you dish than, turn 
thtm uppida down, and pour the saooe over. 

ONIONS TO PICKLE. Peel the onione 
till they look white; boil some strong salt 
and water, and pour it over them; let than 
stand in this twenty-four hours, keep tfie 
vessel closely covereid to retein the steam: 
afcer that time wipe the onions quite dry, 
and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, 
with ginger and white pepper over tlmn. 
Take care die vinegar always covers the 
onions. 

ONION SAUCE, YOUNG. Peel a 
pint of button onions, and put tbem in water 
till you want to put them on to boil; put 
them into a stewpan, with a quart of cold 
water; let them ooil till trader; they will 
take (according to their sise and age) from 
half an hour to an hour. 

ONION SAUCE. Those who like the 
full flavor of onicms oah cut off the strings 
and tops (without peeling off any of the 
skins), pot them into salt and water, and let 
them lie an hour; then wash them, put them 
into a kettle with plentv of water, and boil 
them till they are tender: now diin them, 
pass them through a colander, and mix a 
little melted butto* with them. N. B. Some 
mix the pulp of apples, or turnips, with the 
onions, others add mostard to them. 

ONIONS, TO PREPARE FOR SEA- 
SONIN6. Peel and mince three or four 
onions, put them into a saucepan with a lit- 
tle cold water. Let them boil till quite 
tender, and then pulp diem with the liquor 
through a hair sieve, when it may be mixed 
witii any made dishes or sauces. 

ONIONS YOUNG, TO PICKLE. 
Choose some of the small silver onions, put 
them on in cold water, and when it is scald- 
ing hot, take them out with an egg slice; 
peel off the skins till they look white and 
clear; lay them into the IbUs of a cfeth. 
Boil, in a quart of vinegar, half an ounce of 
pepper, a quarter ni an ounce of aJlspice, the 
same of garlks, and <Hie sliced nutmeg; put 
the ouions into a jar, and pour over tbem 
the boiling vinagar and spices. When cold, 
tie leather over the jar. 

ONIONS, PLAIN BOILED. Peel 
them, and let them lie an hour in cold water, 
put them on in boiling milk and water; 



boil them tifi teader* and 
melced butter poured over tbess. 



wkb 



ONIONS, ROAST. Boast them wiifa 
the skins on in a Dutch ovea, that tb«r inay 
brown equally. They are eaten with oold 
fresh butter, pepper, and sak; 



ONIONS STEWED. (1) TVJcei 
of floodniiBed onions, peel and put them cm 
in the following sauce: — ^A pint of \'eal stock, 
a bit (Abutter tolled in flour, a little pepper, 
and salt. Stew them gently for an hour, 
and, just before serving, mix in three tab^ 
spoonfuls of cream, xo stew them in a 
brown smioe, take the same quantity of good 
gravy. In a stewpan brown, of a light co- 
KNT, a little butter and flour, a^d the gravy 
and onions, with a little pepper and salt, ana 
stew them gently one boor. 

ONIONS STEWED. (2) Ptel five or 
six large onions, put tbem into a Dutch oven 
or dieese-toaster to roast, turn them firequent* 
ly, and when they are well iM-owned, put 
tnem into a saucepan, witli a bone of dressed 
or undressed meat, a slice of bacon, a little 
water, and some pepper. Cover the pan 
closely, and stew them till tender. Take 
out the bone and die bacon; tliicken the 
sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour. 

ORANGE BISCUITS. Take the grat- 
ed rind of an oranee, six firesb eggs, a 
quarter of a pound of Axir, and three-quar- 
ters of a poufid of powder sugar ; put the: e 
into a mortar, beat them to a paste, which 
put into cases, and bake like other bi;>- 
cuits. 

ORANGE CHEESECAKES. To be 
made in the same way, as lemon cheeae- 
cakes. 

ORANG^CREAM, FROTHED. Make 
a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the 
fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large 
oranse into a snoall deep glass, having pi%- 
viouuy steeped a bit of orange-peel for a 
short time in the juice, when the cream is 
aknost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upyp 
the juice, hokling it<as high as possible. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. Having boiled 
the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat 
it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it tlie 
juice of a Seville mange, a spoonfiil of the 
best brandy, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and 
the yolks of four egfgs ; beat them all well 
together ten minutes, then pour in by de^ees 
a pint of boiling cream ; keep beating it till 
cold ; put it into custard gfauees. S^ them 
in an earthen ditfh of hot water ; let them 
stand till thoy aie set, then 6ti6& preserved 



DRA 



121 



OVS 



ororanfB 
be w&nred hot or odUU 



ODiiNtOp. UwBf 



ORANGE FOOL. Take the juice of 
six orangee, aix ens well beiUen, a pint of 
cream, a qaaner of a poond of migar, a little 
cimiaiiKMi and imtmeg* Mix all weD togeth* 
er ; stir it over a slow fire till thick, then piit 
in a small piece of butter, and keq> stiiring 
it till cold, 

ORANGE GINGERBREAD. Sift two 
pounds and a qqarter of fine flour, and add 
to it a pound and three-quaners of treacle, 
six ounces of candied orange-peel cut small, 
three^iuarters of a pound of moist sugar, one 
ounce of ground ginger, and one ounce of 
allspice: melt to an oil three-quarters of a 
pound of butter ; mix the whole well togeth- 
er, and lay it W for twelve hours; roll it 
out with as litUe flour as possiMe, about 
half an inch thick; cut it into pieces three 
inches long and two wide; mark them in 
the form of checkers with the back of a 
knifis ; put them on a baking-plate about a 
quarter of an inch apart; rub them over with 
a brush dipped in the yolk of an egg beat up 
with a tea-cupfiil of milk; bake it in a cool 
oven about a quarter of an hour: when done, 
wash them slightly eivcr acain, divide the 
pieces with a knife (as in baking they will 
run tc^ether). 

ORANGE LIQUOR. To each orange, 
one quart of strong spirits, and one pound 
and a quarter of Iraf sugar are allowea; six 
or eight cloves are to be stock into each or^ 
ange, which, with the spirits and sugar, is 
to be put into a iar. It must be closely cov- 
ered, and stirred occasionally in the course 
of two monlhs ; it is then to be filtered throu^ 
blotting paper, and bottled for use. 

Lemon liquor is made in the same way, 
substituting lemons for oranges. Instead of 
mixing the sugar with the other materials in 
tlie jar, it may be made into a sirup, and 
added to tlie strained or filtered spirits, 
l^his, though more troublesome, will be found 
a better method. 

ORANGE OR LEMON-PEEL, TO 
MIX WITH STUFFING. Peel a Seville or. 
ange, or lemon, very tliin, takiuff off only the 
fine yellow rind (without any m the white) ; 
pound it in a mortar with a bit of lump su- 
g-.ir ; rub it well with the peel ; by degrees 
add a little of the forcemeat it is to be mixed 
with: when it is well ground and blended 
with this, mix it with the whole: there is 
no other way of incorporating it so well.^ 
Forcemeats, &c. are fi^quentljE spoiled by 
the imufi&cieDt mixing of the iogreaiepts. 

ORANGE SIRUP, fob Pijjicr or 
Pudding. See Justice. ^ 



ORANGEADE. (1) SqoeeMdwioiMi 
pour sonse boiling water oo the peel, aoi 
cover it closely; boil water and sqgar to a 
thia simp, and skim it; when all are cold, 
mix the juice, flie infiisioD, and the sirup, 
with as much water as will make a rich 
sherbet; strain it through a jelly-bag» 

ORANGEADE. (2) This refiwhing 
beverage is made precisely in the same man* 
ner as lemonades only substitutiog orangoa 
for lemons. 

ORANGE PEEL RATAFIA. Put 
the peels of a dosen thidc-skinned oimngca 
into a gallon of brandy ; dissolve two poumli 
of sugar in the iuice oif the oranses, add to it 
die wandv, «nd having stirred them togeth- 
er wen, cnse the vessel ti|;btly, and leave it 
for a month ; then strain it off, and bottle it* 

ORGEAT. (1) Pound very fine one 
pound of Jordan, and one ounce of bitter, 
almonds, in a marble mortar, with half a gill 
of orange-flower water to keep them fii^m 
oiling; then mix with them one pint of 
rose and cne pint of spring-watw; rub it 
through a tamis cloth or lawn sieve, till the 
ahnonds are quite dry, which will reduce the 
quantity to about a quart : have ready three 
pints m clarified sugar or water, and boil it 
Co a crack (which may be known by dipping 
your fingers into tlie sugar, and then into 
cold water ; and if you find the sugar to crack 
in moving your finger, it has boiira enough) ; 
put in the almonds ; boil it one minute, and 
when cold put it into small bottles close 
corked; a tablenqpoonfiil of which will be 
sufficient for a tumbler of water: shake the 
bottle before using. If the wgeal is for 
present use, the almonds may be pounded as 
above, and mixed with one quart of water, 
one Quart of milk, a pint of capillaire or 
clarined sugar, rabbea through a tamis or 
fine sieve, and put into decantei's for use. 

ORGEAT. (2) A quarter of a pound 
<^ sweet, and one ounce and a half of bitter 
almonds, are to be blanched, and thrown into 
cold water, then beaten in a marble mortar, 
and moistened occasionally with a spoonful 
of milk, to prevent their oiling ; three pints 
of milk are then to be mixed gradualW with 
them, and nfier being sweetened, boiled, 
stirred till cold, and strained, a glass of wine 
or brandy is to be added. 

OVEN, DIRECTIONS FOR THE. 
Be very careful to keep your ovea clean, and 
that there are no remains of sugar or fot that 
may have run over from any thing thar has 
bcNi baking. Puff-pastes require a mode- 
ratdy hoi oven, but not too hot, or it will 
spoil the dMp» and tura it over; tartfoste. 



oxc 



123 



OYS 



cm: short crust, requires a slower oven ; pe- 
tits-bhoux, one still slower; but for raised 
pies, let it be as hot as for puff-poste at first, 
and well closed, so that the pies may not fkU. 
Therefore, when yoa give a dinner where 
paste is necessaiy, endeavor to make it in 
the morning; heat your oven first for the 
puflT-paste, which must be baked the first; 
thai let the oven ^ gradually down, and 
bake your pastes m rotation, as the heat 
fiills. Savoy biscuits reauire a cool oven, 
and, bv degrees, raise the heat as the biscuits 
are baking. For souffles or light puddings, 
have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have 
th^n ready by the time they are wanted, or 
they will mil. The greatest attention should 
also be paid in heating the oven for baking 
cakes, particularlv for those that are large. 
If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. 
Should you fear its catchin? by being too 
quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its 
being burnt. If not long enough lighted to 
have a body of heat, or rf it lias become 
slack, the cake will be heavy. To know 
when it is soaked, take a broad bladed 
knife that is very bright, and pinnge it rato 
the centre ; draw it instantly out, and if the 
least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- 
diately in, and shut up tl^ oven. If the Iieat 
was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresh 
fiiel must be quickly put in, and die cakes 
kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the 
soaking, but this must only be done in a case 
of great emergency ; for Uiose who are em- 
plo}'ed ought to be particularly careful that 
no mistake occur from negligence. 

OX-CHEEK STEWED. Prepare this 
the day before it is to be eaten ; clean it, and 
put it into soft water just warm ; let it lie 
three or four hours, then put it into cold wa- 
ter, and let it soak all night ; next day wipe 
it clean, put it into a stewpan, and just cover 
it with water ; skim it well when it is com- 
ing to a boil, then put two whole onions, 
stick two or three cloves into each, three 
turnips quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, 
two bay-leaves, and twenty-four corns of all- 
spice, a head of celery, and a bundle of 
sweet-herbs, pepper, and salt; to these, 
those who are for a '* haut gout " may add 
cayenne and garlic, in such proportions as 
the palate that requires them may desire. 
Let it stew gently till perfectly tender, t. e. 
about three hours; then take out the cheek, 
divide it into handsome pieces, fit to help at 
table ; skim, and strain die gravy ; melt an 
ounce and a liaif of butter in a stewpan ; stir 
into it OS much fiour as it will take up; mix 
with it l^ d^rees a pint and a hair of the 
gravy; add to it a table-spoonful of basil, 
tarragon, or elder vinegar, or the like quan- 
ti^ of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or cav- 
ioe, or Port wine, and give it a boil. 



OX CHEEK, TO BOIL. Wasb very 
clean, half a liead ; let it Ke in cold water 
all night ; break the bone in two, taking care 
not to break the flesh. Put it on in a pot 
of boiling water, and teC it boil fimn two ttr 
three hours; take out the bone. Serve it 
with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. 
The liquor the head has been boiled in may 
be stramed and made into Scots barley broth, 
or Scots kale. 

OX FEET JELLY. Put a little hot 
water over tlie top of the stock, pour it oflf, 
and wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; put a 
quart of it into a saucepan with the beaten 
whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five 
lemons made very sweet with good brown 
sugar, a clove or two, and a Tittle cinna' 
mon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, 
stirring it aH the time ; take it cmT the fire^ 
§nd add a pint, or half a pint of white 
wine, and nm it through a jelly*bag till 
clear. 

OX-TAILS STEWED. Divide them 
into joints; wash them; parboil them; set 
them on to stew in just water enough to- 
cover them, — and dress them in the same 
manner as we have directed in Stewed Gib* 
leti, for which they are an excellent substi- 
tute. 

OYSTERS. Some piscivorous gour- 
mands think that oysters are not best when 
quite fiesh fixHn their beds, and that their 
flavor is too brackish and harsh, and is rnudi 
ameliorated by giving them a feed. 

To FEED oysters. — Cover them with 
clean water, with a pint of salt to about two 
gallons (nothing ebe, no oatmeal, flour, nor 
any other trumpery) ; this will cleanse theii» 
from the mud and sand, &c. of the bed ; at" 
ter they have lain in it twelve hours, change 
it for fiesh salt and water, and in twelve 
hours more they will be in prime order for 
the mouth, and remain so two or three days: 
at the time of high wato* you may see thein 
open their shells, in expectation of receiving 
their usual food. This process of feeding 
oysters is only employed when a great many 
come up together. 

Common people are indifierent about tbn 
maimer of opening oysters, and die time of 
eating tliem after they are opened; nothing, 
however, is more important in the enlighl • 
ened eyes of the experienced oyster-eater. 

Those who wish to oijoy this delicious 
restorative in its utmost perfection, muft 
eat it tlie moment it is opened, with its ovi i 
gravy in the under shell; if not eaten whi'e 
absolute^ alive, its flavor and spirit are los. 

Shell-fish have long held a high rank i a 
the catalo|U9 of easily digestible and speed .- 
ly reetwative foods; of tuese the oyster oei' 



OYS 



1S9 



OT8 



tainh d LKntm the bert churMler, bat we 
tfaiok it ham mcqpand not a litde mon rapu- 
tatioD for these qualities than it des er ves; a 
weU^treased chop or steak, will invigorate 
the heart in a much higher ratio; to recruit 
the animal spirits, and support strength, 
there is nothing equal to aninal food; uraen 
kept tin prsperU tender, none will give ao 
little traubie to the digestive organs, and so 
much substantial ezciienent to the constitu- 
tion. 

OYSTER ATTELETS. OutiNtoemall 

eieces a sweetbread and a slice or two of 
aeon, beard book Uune oysteffs, and season 
all highly with chop^d parriey, shallot, a 
little divme, pepper and iak. Then fiuten 
them ahermady upon wire skewers; put 
sifted bread cnio^ over theoBy and broil or 
67 them of a light brown color. Take then 
off the skewov, and serve them with some 
iTch gravy, to which add a little ketchnp and 
lemon pickle. 

OYSTERS, BAKED. Grate a smaU 
loaf of stale bre»d. Butter a deep dish well, 
and cover the sides and bottom with bread 
crumbs. Put in half the ^fotera with a li«- 
(le maoe and pqaper. 0>vor than with 
crumbs and smaH bile of butter strewed over 
them. Then put in the remainder of the 
oysters. Season them. Cover them as 
before with crumbs and butter* If the oys- 
ters are fresh pour in the liquor* if they 
are salt, substitute a little water. Bake it a 
very short time. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (1) Makea batter 
MB for pancakes, seasoned with gmbsd nut- 
fo^, white pepper, and salt, and add some 
finely grated bread crumbs; dip in the oys- 
ters, and fry them of a light brown in beef 
<h*i|)ping. 

AnoUttr way is, to dip them into the white 
of an egg beat up, and roll diem in finely 
grated bread awnbs, seasoned with grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, and fry thein as 
directed. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (2) The largest 
and finest oysters are to be chosen for this 
purpose; simmer them in their own Uquor 
lor a cou|iie of minutes, take them out and 
lay diem on a doth to drain, beard them and 
then flour ihem, eoL and bread-crumb them, 
put them into boiMog &t, and fry them a 
delicate brown. Ob*, — An eiegant garnish 
for made dishes, stewed rump-steaks, boiled 
or fried fish, &c.; but they are too faaid and 
dry to be eaten. 

OYSTERS, FRIED. (8) For frying, 
choose the br^t and finest oysters. Beat 
noma yolks of eggs, ami nix with them grat- 



ed hrfd, and a mhII qmotity of 
•utm^ and mace, and a little mk. Hav- 
ing stirred this batter well, dip your oys- 
ters into it, and £7 them in bu^, till tbef 
are of a light brown color. Take care net 
to do then too oMich. Serve them up hot. 



For crated bread, sone euhstitule cracken 
poonoed to a powder, and 
of egg' and spice. 



with volk 



OYSTERS, TO KEEP AND FAT- 
TEN. Put them into water, and wash and 
clean them with a birch broom ; laying them 
with the deq;> shell downwards into a tub or 
broad platter, and theosprinkle them over with 
salt. The £»llowii^ day pour over then and 
fill the vessel with cHaa cold water, in whicb> 
thf7 mist remain an hour, then poor it off 
again ; sprinkle then with salt, and let this 
be repealed every day. This nethod wii 
keep them good for a furtnigbt. 

OYSTER KETCHUP. (1) Take 
fine fresh oysters; wash them in their own 
liquor; skin it; pound thom in a marUe 
nu>rur; to a pint of oysters add a pint o( 
Sherry; boil then up, and add an ounce oi 
salt, two drachms of pounded inaee,and one 
of cayenne; let it just boil up again; skin 
it, and rah it through a sieve, and when cokl, 
bottle it, cork it well, and seal it down. 

N. B. It i« the best way to pound thesak 
and spices, &c with theojrsters. 

Oht, — ^This coupoeitioa very agreeab^ 
hei^iens the flavor of white sauees, and- 
white made-dishes; and if you add a gkun 
of brandy to it, it will keep good fiir aconai- 
derable time longer than oyaten are out of 



OYSTER KETCHUP. (2) Boil one 

hundred oysters with their liquor, till the 
strength be extracted finom than; strain them 
well, and add to the liqucM* an equal quanti- 
ty oif wine, one half Port and the other 
Sherry, alpo a ^juarter of an ounce of maoe, 
the sauM of white pepper and of allspice, a 
drachm or tea-epoonfiil of ginger, and six 
anchovies; boil all together about fifteen 
minutes. Put into a jar twelve shaUots, the 
peel of a leoaon, and a piece of hone-radish 
cut snail; pour upcHi them the boiling li- 
quor, and when cold, bottle it, together widi 
the spices. 

OYSTER LOAVES. Cot off the top 
of sone smaU French rolls, take out the 
crumb, and fry them brown and crisp with 
clarified butter, then firy snne bread crumbs; 
stew the requisite quantity of ovsteta, beard- 
ed and cut in two, in their liquor, with a 
little white wine, some gravy, and seasoned* 
with grated lemon-peel, pounded maoe, pm* 
per, and nk; add a bit of budar; fill ttw 



OYS 



130 



OYS 



roHfei with the oysten, and serve them with 
die fried bread crumbu in the dish. 

OYSTER PARTIES. (1> Roll out poflT 
paste a quarter of an indi thick, cut it into 
squares with a knife, sheet eight or ten patty 
pans, pat upon each a bit of bread the size 
of lialf a walnut ; roU out another layer of 
paste of the same thickness, cot it as above, 
wet the edge T>f the bottcmi paste, and put 
on the top, pare (hem round to the pan, and 
notch them about a dozen times with the 
bank of the knife, rub them lightly with yolk 
of egg, bake them in a hot oven about a 
quarts of an hour: when done, take a thin 
slice off tlie top, then, with a small knife or 
spoon, take out the bread and the inside 
paste, leaving tlie outside quite entire ; then 
parboil two dozen of large oysters, strain 
them fixxn tlieir liquor, wash,. beard, and cut 
tliem into four,, pot them into a stewpan 
with an ounce of batter rolled in flour, half 
a giir of good cream, a little grated lemon- 
peel, the oyster liquor, free from sediment, 
reduced by boiUns to one half, some cayenne 
pepper, silt, and a teaHspoonfiil of lemon- 
juice; stir it over a fire five minutes^and 
fill the patties. 

OYSTER PATTIESi (2) Make some 
rich puff paste, and bake it in very small tin 
pat^-pans. When cool, turn them out npoa 
a large ilish. Stew some large fivsh oysters 
with a few cloves, a little mace and nutmeg, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a 
little batter, and as much of the oyster liquor 
as will cover them. When they have stew- 
ed a little while, take them out of the pan, 
and set them away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell 
<^ puff-paste> 

OYSTER PIE. Beard a quart of fine 
oysters, strain the liquor, and add them to 
it. Cut into thin slices the kidney fet of a 
loin of veal ; season them with white pep- 
per, salt, mace, and grated lemon-peel; lay 
them on the bottom of a pie dish, put in the 
oysters and liquor, with a Uttie more season- 
ing ; put over them the marrow of two bones. 
Lay a border of puff paste round the edge of 
the dish ; cover it with paste, and bake it 
nearly tturee-quarters of an hour. 

OYSTERS, PRESERVED. Open 
the oysters carefeUy, so as not to cut them 
except in dividing the gristle which attaches 
the shells; put them into a mortar, and 
when you have fi;ot as many as yon can con- 
veniently pound at once, adci about two 
drachms of salt to a dozen oysters ; pound 
them, and rub them through the back of a 
hair sieve, and put them into a mortar again, 
with as much fiour (which has been pn^ 



viously thoroughly dried) as wilfmake them 
into a paste; roll it out several times, and, 
lastly, flour it, and roH it out the thickness 
of a half-crown, and divide it into pieces 
skxxat an inch square; lay them in a Dutch 
oven, where they will dry so gently as not to 
get burnt: turn them every naif hour, and 
when they bc^in to dry, crumble them ; they 
will take about four hours to dry; then 
pound them fine, sift them, and put them 
mto bottles and seal them over. 

N. B. Three dozen required seven and a 
half ounces of dried floor to make them into 
a paste which then weighed eleven ounces ; 
when dried and powdered, six and a quar- 
to* ounces. 

To make half a pint of sauce, put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan with three- 
drachms of oyster powder, and six table- 
spoonfub of milk; set it on a slow fire; stir 
it till it boils, and season it with salt. 

This powder, if made with plnmp, juicy 
oysters, will abound with the flavor of the 
fish ; and if closely corked, and kept in a 
dryplace, will remain good for sometime. 

This extract is a welcome sucoedaneumr 
while ojrstenr are out of season, and in sucb 
inland parts as seldom have any, is a valua- 
ble addition to the list of fish sauces: it i» 
equally good with boiled fowl, or rump steak, 
and sprmkled on bread and butter makes a 
very good sandwich, and is especially wor- 
thy the notice of country honsekeepers, and 
as a store sauce for the army and navy. 

OYSTERS, TO PICKIJ:. Opendie» 
carefiilly, preserving alL their liquor; put 
them into a saucepan over the fire, stirring; 
them now and then, and when the liquor 
boib take them off, skim the sur&ce, and 
put the oysters into a bowl ; let the liquor 
settle, poor off the clear part, and put it on 
to boil, with, to three hundred oysters, halT 
an ounce of whole black pepper, a little 
mace and allspice ; boil it ten minutes, then 
add the oysters, and let them boil two min- 
utes ; put them into a jar, and when they 
are coid, tie a paper over it. 

OYSTER SAUCE. When your oys- 
ters are opened, take care of all the liquor 
and give them one boil in it. Then take 
the oysters oat, and put to the liquor three 
or four blades of mace. Add to it some 
melted butter, and some thick cream or 
rich milki Put in your oysters and give 
them a boil. 

OYSTER SOUP. (1) Threepintsoflarge 
firesh oysters. Two table-spoonfiik of but- 
ter, rolled iu flour. A bonch of sweet herbs. 
A quart of rich milk. Pepper to your taste* 
Take the liquor of three pints of outers. 
Strain it, and set it on the fire. Put mto ^ 



ors 



131 



OYS 



oepper to yoar taale* two table-«pooiifiib of 
Dutter rolled in flour, and a bunch of sweet 
iiiaij<Nram and other pot-herbs. When it 
boib add a quart of rich milk— «nd as soon 
as it boib afain take out the herbs, and 
pot in the oysters just belbra you send it to 
Cable. 

OYSTER SOUP. (2) Boil in water the 
crmnb of two twopeonv rolls, with a few blades 
of maoe, a tea spoonrol of whole white pep- 
per, and four onions cut snaall. Pick out 
the spice, and rub ibe bread and onions 
through a hair sieve, Chen add it to three 
quarts of well-seasoned strong veal stock. 
Hub down three ounces of mitter, with a 
4able-«poonfijl t^ flour, and mix it gradually 
with Inlf a pint of tlie soup, and thra stir all 
well together.. When it has boiled a short 
time, a^ with the liquor half a hundred or 
more of ine oysters, and let the whole sim- 
mer fiH" ten (M* fifteen minutes. If the soup 
is not quite salt enough with the liquor of 
the oysters, a little salt may be added. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (1) Put 
them, with their liquor strained, two or three 
blades of mace, a few peppercorns, a little 
cayenne, and a piece oi buttor the size of a 
wahiut, kneaded with flour, into a stewpan. 
Simmer them very gently for half an hour, 
by no means letting them boil ; pick out the 
maoe and pepper; have ready, finely grated 
iMnead-crurabs, seasoned wiui pepper and 
ealt; put into the scallopHshells, or into a 
dish, alternately a layer of bread-crumbs, 
then one of oysters and part of their liquor; 
and stick over the last layer of bread-cnimbis 
« few bits of butter, and brown tliem in a 
Dutch oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (2) Take 
off tlie beards, stew them in their liquor 
strained, widi a little mace, white pepper, 
and salt. Fry in a stewpan, with a bit of 
butter, some grated bread-crumbs, till of a 
nice t»\)wn; put them alternately with the 
oysters into a dish. 

OYSTERS SCALLOPED. (3) A 
good way to warm iq> any coldjuh. Stew 
the oysters slowly in their o%vn liquor for two 
or three minutes, take them out with a spoon, 
beard them, and skim the liquor, put a bit 
of butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
add as much fine bread-crumbs as will dry 
it up, then put to it the oyster liquor, and 

K've it a boil up, put the oysters into seal-* 
p-sbells that vou have buttoned, mid strew- 
ed with bread-crumbs, then a layer of oys- 
ters, then of bread-cnunbe, and then some 
more oysters; moipteq it with (hs oyster li-r 



quor, cover them with bread-crmnbs, pot 
about half a dozen little bits of bott«r on the 
top of each, and brown them in a Dutch ov« 
en. Essence of anchovy, ketchup, cayenne, 

gated Wnon-peel, maoe, and ouKr q)ioes» 
c are added by those who prefer piquaooa 
to the oenuine uvor of the oyster. 

Cold fish may be re^dressed the same way . 
N. B. Small scaUop-sheUs, or saucers that 
hold about half a dozien oysters, are the most 
convenient. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (1) Stew witk 
a quart of oysters, and their liquor strained, 
a glass of white wine, one anchovy bruised, 
seasoned with white pepper, salt, a little 
maoe, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let all 
stew gently a quarter of an hour. Pick out 
the bunch of herbs, and add a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter kneaded in a large ta- 
ble-flpoonful of flour, and stew them ten or 
twelve minutes. Serve them garnished with 
broul-eippets and cut lemon. They may be 
stewed simply in their own liquor, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and srated nutmeg, and 
thickened with cream, flour, and butter. 

OYSTERS STEW;ED. (2) Open the 
oysters and strain the liquor. Put to them 
some grated stale bread, and a little pepper 
and nutmeg. Throw them into the liquor, 
and add a glass of white wine. Let tliem 
stew but a very short time, or tliev will be 
hard. Have re&d^ some slices of buttered 
toast widi the crust off. When the oysters 
are done, dip the toast in the liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Pour the oysters and 
liquor upon the toast and send them to ta<* 
ble hot. 

OYSTERS STEWED. (S) Large 0}-s- 
ters will do for stewinff, and by some are pre- 
ferred. Stew a coupfe of dozen of these in 
their own liquor ; when they are coming to a 
boil, skim well, take them up and beard th^ ; 
strain die liquor throusU a tamis-sieve, and 
lay the oysters on a dish. Put an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted, 
put to it as much flour as will dry it up, the 
liquor of the oysters, and three table-spoon- 
fiik of milk or cream, and a little white pep- 
per and salt; to this some cooks add a little 
ketchup, or finely-chopped parsley, grated 
lemon-peel, and juice ; let it boil up for a 
couple of minutes, till it is smooth, then take 
it off the fire, put in the oysters, and let them 
get warm (they must not themselves be boil- 
ed, or they will become hard) ; line the bot- 
tom wul sides of a hash-dish with bread- 
sippets, and pour your oysters and sauce 
into itf 



FAN 



J32 



PAW 



p. 



PALATES AND SWEETBREADS. 

Boil Uie palates till tbe l)lack skin can be 
eaflily peeled off; parboil the sweetbreads 
with diem; skin aund cnt the palates into 
pieces, and if the sweetbreads are large, cut 
than in two the long way ; dust them with 
flour, and firy them of a hght brown, in but- 
ter; then stew them in rather more than a 
pint of tbe liquor in which they w«ie boiled. 
Brown a piece of butter with flour; add 
k, with a little cayenne, sak, pepper, grated 
lemon-peel, and nutm^, and a gliffis of whke 
wine., A little before serving, stir in a 
spoonful of vinegar, (nt the squeeze of a lem- 
on. 

PANADA. (1) Boil some pieces of stale 
bread in a sufficient c]|uantity of cold water 
to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemcm- 
peel, and caraways ; when the Ix'ead is quite 
soft, press out all the water, and beat up the 
bread with a small pi4he of butter, a little 
milk, and susar to the taste ; a Httle spice 
may be added. 

PANADA. (2) Set a little water on 
the fire with a glass of white wine, some su- 
gar, a veiy little nutmeg, and lemon-peel ; 
meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : the 
moment the water boils up, put in the Inread- 
crumbs (without taking it off the fire), and 
let it boil as &8t as it can. When of a 
proper consistence, that is, when just of a 
sufficient thickness to drink, take it off the 
fire. 

PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Break 
three eggs in a basin ; beat them up with a 
little nutmeg and salt; then put to them four 
ounces and a half of flour, and a little milk; 
beat it of a smooth batter ; then add by de- 
grees as much milk as will make it of the 
uiickness of good cream : the frying-pan must 
be about the size of a pudding plate, and 
vei*y clean, or they will stick ; make it hot, 
and to each pancake put in a bit of butter 
about as big as a walnut: when it is melted, 
pour in the batter to cover the bottdm ofthe 
pan; make them the thickness of half a 
croMm; fry them of a light iMnuwn on both 
sides. The above will do for apple fritters, 
by adding one spoonful more of flour ; peel 
your apples, and cut them in diick slices; 
take out die core, dip thdm in the batter, 
and Cry them in hot lard; put them on a 
sieve to drain; dish them neatly, and grate 
some loafwngar over them. 



PANCAKES IN APPLES. Cbt^ant 

apples very small, stew them with a little 
white wine, crated lemon^'peel, pouided cin- 
namon, and brown sugar; mash them, and 
spread it ofer pancakes; roil them up, and 
serve with sifted loaPsugar over them. 

PANCAKES COMMON. Widi near- 
ly Ittilf a pound of floinr, mix Ave weil4]eaten 
eggs, and then add, by degrees, a quart x^ 
good milk; §rj than in fresh lard, and 
serve them with pounded loalHBugBr strewed 
between each. 

PANCAKES FINE. To three tabl^- 
spoonfiils of flour add six weli-beaten eegs, 
three taUe-spoonluls of white wine, four 
ounces of mened batter nearly cold, the same 
quantity of pounded loaf-sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a pint of cream ; mix it weil, 
beating the batter for sometime, and poor 
it thin over the pan. 

- PANCAKE, RICE. Add to three welU 
beaten eggs a pint of new milk, diree table- 
spoonfiils of boiled rice, some sugar, and a 
httle pounded cinnamon ; mix it all well to- 
gether, and firy it in batter; brown tbe up- 
per side for a minute before the fire ; narve 
it, cut into four, with pounded sti^ar strewed 
over it. "" 

PANCAKE RISSOLES. Mince fine- 
ly some cold veal, season it with grated lem- 
on-peel, nutm^, pepper, sah, and a. little 
lemon pickle; warm it up with some good 
gravy, and a small bit of butter rollra in 
flour. Ha\-e ready a batter as for pancakes, 
seasoned with a Uttle salt and grated nutmeg. 
Fry a thin pancake, turn it, and put into 
the middle two table-spoonfols of the minced 
veal ; fold it in at each side and at the ends 
in an oblong form, and fry them of a light 
brown color ; lay them upon the back of a 
sieve to drain before the fire. Four or six 
will make a dish. They are served as a 
comer or top dish. 

PANCAKES, SCOTCH. Mix with 
six table-spoonfiils of flour a tittle ci^eam, add 
the beaten yolks of six eggs, and then mix in 
a pint of cream, die grated peel of a small 
lemon, a table-spoonral of pounded sugar, 
and a little ratafia; when the batter is very 
well beaten, and just before using, mix in 
the whites of the eggs beatoi with a knife, 
to a stiff froth. Put a little butter or ford 
into the frying-pan, make it hot, pour it out, 
and wipe the pan with a clean cloth; put in 
some butter or lard, and when hot, pour in a 
tea-cupfol ofthe batter; shake it, and when 
firm, prick it a Iktle wMi a fork, but do not 
turn it; bold it before the fire a minute U^ 



PAB 



133 



P AR 



Scrte them with pmaadaA Umt-m- 
fptr l Uc i w d owr them* 



PANCAKE, THICK. 
iy the yoUu and whites of two efffp; mix 
with thie yolks a table-spooi!^ «nd a half of 
flour, a little sugar aad white wine, half a 
pint of cream or good milk; add the whites, 
«ad firy it in a broad wawrflfian, with butter 
or clarified suet; brown the upper side be- 
Ibre the fire; warm any sort of preserve, 
apread it upon one half, and turn the odier 
over it, aad strew upon it pounded loaf su- 
gar. 

PANNEQUETS. Pot into a pan, two 
ounces of sifted flour, (oat' of powder-sugar, 
the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoon- 
ful of dried orange-flowers; break up all 
these articles, and mix with them tlie yolks 
often eggs, four large glasses of double cream, 
and a pinch of 8alL Wash the bottom of ja 
flying-pan lightly with some warm clarified 
butter, then put w it a spoonful of the above 
prqjaration, spread it over tlie pan, to make 
thevpaste as thin as possible ; wheu the jpoti- 
nequet becomes lightly colored, turn it over 
carefijUy, and do the other side ; llien put it 
on a tin plate, spread a little apricot marma- 
lade over, and having strewed crushed maca- 
roons on that, roll up the pannequet till about 
an inch in diameter ; in die meantime put a 
cecoiid spoonfiil of your preparation into the 
pan, and proceed in the above manner, gar- 
nishing one pannequet whibt another is 
4MM>king; taking care, however, to set the 
pan over a gentle fire. When all are done, 
cut the pannequei$ three inches in length, 
glaze, and diiili them. 

PARSLEY* To preserve parsley through 
the winter: — in May, June, or July, take 
fine fi'esh-gadiei'ed sprigs; pick, and wash 
them clean ; set on a stewfian half full of wa- 
ter; put a litdesalt in it; boil, and skim it 
cleaui, and dien put in the parsley, and let it 
boil for a couple of minutes ; take it out, and 
lay it on a sieve l)efbre the fire, that it may 
be dried as quick as possible ; put it by in a 
tin box, and keep it in a dry place: when 
you want it, lay it in a basin, and cover it 
with warm wsUer a few, mi^uites before you 
use it, 

PARSLEY BUTTER. Wash some 
parsley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf 
Dv leaf; put a tea-spoonfiil of salt into half 
a pint oi boiling water: boil the parsley 
about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; 
mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a 
pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this 
elegant and innocent relish depends u;)on the 
purslev being minced very fine: put it into a 
sauce-boat, and mix with it, oy degrees, 

12 



about half a pint of good melted bMter, only 
do not put BO much flour to it, as the peri- 
ls will add to its thickness: nevar pour 
parsley and butter over boiled things, but 
send it up in a boat. 

PARSLEY, CRISP. Pick and wash 
young parsley, shake it in a dry cbth to 
drain the water from it ; nraad it on a sheet 
of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, and turo it flvqneotly until it ai quite 
cri^ This is a nmch more easjr way of 
preparing it than Hryiofr it, which is not sel- 
dmn ill done. 

PARSNIPS, TO BOIL. Scrape and 
wash them naoelv ; when large, divide them; 
boil them in miik and water till quite tender; 
they will take nearly as long to boil as car- 
rots. They may also be mairhfrd like tmv 
aips. 

PARTRIDGES, TO CHOOSE. When 
they are young the bill is of a dark cok)r, 
ana tlieir legs are of a yellowish cokM*; and 
wheu fresh, die vent is firm, but this part 
will look greenish when stale. The plumage 
on die breast of the hen is light, that on the 
cock is tinged with red. 

PARTRIDGES BROILED. Take 
five partridges, cut than in halves, trim and 
dip them in melted butter, and bread them 
twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner 
broil them. 

PARTRIDGES MINCED. Take the 
fillets from eight roasted partridges, mince, 
and put them into a saucepan ; make a light 
roux, in which put the livers and lights of 
the birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shallots, 
and a little sage, give them a few turns, and 
dien add two large glasses of stock, reduce 
the sauce to half, strain and put it to the 
mince, stirring till it is Uiick and smooth ; 
make it hot, but not boiling; sorve it over 
fried bread, and garnish your dish, with 
either poached or hard eggs. 

PARTRIDGE IN BREAD. Take a 
nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight ; 
make a hole at one end, through which take 
out all the crumbs, rub the crust over with a 
little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for 
a few minutes to dry: fill tliis with minced 

Cartridge (see that article), and put the loaf, 
ottom upwards, into a stcwpan ; add two 
spoonfuls of veal blond, with any other gar- 
nish you please ; let it remain on the fire till 
the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to 
penetrate it, then take it out and dish it with 
the sauce round, 

PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISH. Taka 



FAR 



134 



PAS 



§aar pvtridfM, pick and singe tiwm; cut 
off tlisir legs at the knee; season with pep- 
per, salt, diopped parskr^, thyme, and muab- 
rooms. Put a Tesu steak and a slice of ham 
at the bottom of the dish ; put in the par- 
tridges with half a pint of good conaomme. 
Line the edges of toe dish with puff paste, 
and cover with the same ; do it over with 
egg, and let it bake for an hour. 

PARTRIDGE TO ROAST. Take 
out the Mitraib, and singe the partridge over 
the stove, then roU a bit of butter in pepper 
and salt, and put it into the inside or the 
bird; truss it neatly with the head turned on 
one side, keeping the breast as fiill as possi- 
ble ; over which should be laid slices of fat 
bacon tied on with pack-thread ; before it is 
put on the i^it, break the back-bone, that it 
may lay the better on the dish. A good 
sized partridge will take half an hour ; when 
nearly done, take away the bacon, brown 
the partridge well ; sprinkle it with flour and 
salt, and froth it with butter ; serve it with 
water-crcHses, a good gravy under it, and 
bread sauce in a boat. 

PARTRIDGE TO TRUSS. Let it be 
well picked and singed, then cut a slit in 
the back of the neck, and carefolly take the 
crop out without breaking it ; then cut off 
the vent, and draw out the inside; after this, 
well wipe the inside, and then put in a little 
pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. 
Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the 
bird, l^ first cutting off die pinion at the first 
joint, so that the feathers need not be picked 
off that part; break the back-bone, and truss 
it in tlie sune manner as a fowl, by pressing 
the legs close to the apron, then turn tlie bird 
on the breast, and run a skewer tiirotigh the 
end of the pinion, tlie leg, tlie body, and tlie 
leg and pinion on tlie other side, with the 
hraid fixeid on the end of the skewer, and 
over the breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and 
tie it on with pack-thread. If for boiling or 
stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for 
boiling. 

PARTRIDGES TO STEW. Trass 
the partridges as fowls are done for boiling; 
pound the Hvers with double the quantity of 
fat bacon and bread-crumbs boiled in milk ; 
and some chopped parsley, thyme, shallots, 
and mushrooms; season witii peppier, salt, 
grated lemon-peel, and mace. Stuff tlie in- 
side of the biras, tie them at both ends, and 
put them into a stewpan lined with slices of 
bacon ; add a quart of good stock, half a pint 
of white wine, two onions, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and a few blades of mace ; let them 
stew gently till tender ; take them out, strain 
and thicken the sauce with flour and butter, 
make it hot, and pour it over the partridges. 



PASTE. Be very particain' that 
sUb or paste table, rolling-pin and outtsn 
are clean, and free from all old paste, and be 
very car^ that both the flour and butler 
are extremely good. Have a dry sieve af- 
ways in residiDess, in or by the floor tub, 
so as to use none without mfting it; for, 
thoueh it may appear pure and fine, bran, or 
small particles c^ old paste may have follen 
into it; sifUng is, therefore, always nec^ 
sary. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a 
circle oo the slab: break one egg in the cen- 
tre, pot a small qoanti^ of sak, and a little 
bit of butter; mix all these together lightly, 
add a little %vater, mix them again, then add 
mum water, and so proceed until it binds 
into paste; but take care that you do not 
make it too stiff, nar squeeze- it much to^ 
gether, till you find there is sufficient water; 
then work it well together, and roU it out on 
the slab, but do not roll it too thin ; work a 
pound of butter on the slab, spread it out to 
the size of the pnste, with a knife cut it off 
altogether, and lay it oir the paste; tlien 
double the ends of tlie paste together, to i»- 
dose the butter ; 'then give it one turn, thusr 
roll it out till you just perceive the butter 
dirough the paste; turn the end which is 
next to you half way over, and the other end 
over that, roll it once or twice with the rolV- 
ing-pin; then let it stand, this is called one 
turn; tlien, in three minutes time, turn it 
again, and so proceed until you have given 
it six turns ; then roU it out', and cut it for 
patties or any shape you please; bntcibeierTe 
not to put over thcan too much egg, as that 
will prevent their rising; as soon as they 
are haked, take them off the sheet, lay them 
on paper, and when cold, scrape the bottoms, 
neatly cut out tlie insides ready for what- 
ever you mean to put into them. For bak- 
ing, see directions for the oven. 

PASTE, BEEF DRIPPING. Rub 

into one pound of flour half a pound of 
clarified beef dripping, till it all looks like 
flour; work it to a stiff paste with cokl wa- 
tsr, and roll it out two or three times. This 
pnste answers very well for common pies, but 
must be used when hot and fresh baked. 

PASTE FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 

Pick and chop very fine half a pound of beef 
suet, add to it one pound and a quarter of 
flour, and a little salt: mix it with half a 
pint of milk or water, and beat it well with 
the rolKng-pin, to incorpcMrate die suet with 
the flour. 

PASTE FOR CHEESECAKES. Rub 
ec^ual quantities of flour and butter, together 
with a little pounded and sifted k»f sugar, 
make it into a paste, with warm milk, roQ 
it out, and line the ptuM with it, 



PAS 



185 



PA8 



' PASTE, CRISP. Rub a qiwrt«r of a 
poood of iloar, ado two table-«pooofuIi of 
pounded loa^flogar, aod die wdUieaten^olkB 
of two or dirse egn, work it wdl with a 
lioni-flpoon, and roll it out fery thin, touch- 
ing it as little as poisiUe with the hands; 
the moment before putting into a quick oven 
nd> it OTor widi the well4)eateo nAiile of an 
egg, and sift all over the tart finely-pounded 
angar. This crust maj be used lor any firuit 
tarts. 

PASTE FOR CROQUANTS OR 
Cut Pastry. To half a pound of fine 
&>or put a quarter of a poinid of sifted knf- 
migar; mix it well ttwether with yolks of 
«gg8 till of a good stimiesB. 

PASTE FOR A COMMON DUM- 
PLING. Rub into a pound of fiour six 
ounces of butter, then weak it into a paste 
widi two well-beaten eggs and a little water. 
This paste may be bakra, a krge tafote-spoon- 
ful of pounded loaf-su^rar being added to it. 

PASTE FOR FAMILY PIES. Rub 
into one pound and a half of flour half a 
pound of butter, wet it with cold water suffi- 
cient to make it into a stiff paste; work it 
weU, and roll it out two or three times. 

PASTE, POTATO. Marfi sixteen oun- 
ees of boiled potatoes, while they are warm, 
then rub them between the hands, together 
with twelve ounces of flour; when it is wefl 
mixed, and all looks like flour, add half a 
tea-spoonfiil of salt, and, with a little cold 
water, make it into a stiff paste; beat and 
roll it out three or four times, making it very 
tiiin the last time. Lay it over bls^k cur- 
rant jam, raspberries, or any sort of pi^eserve, 
rub the edges with water, roll it up like a 
t»lsier puddinff, and boil it in a buttered 
mnd floored cK>di for three or four hours. 
Serve it with a sweet saooe. 

PASTE, PUFF. Weigh an equal quan- 
tity of floor and butler, rub rather more than 
the half of the flour into one third of the 
iMitter, then add as much cold water as will 
make it into a stiff paste; work it until the 
butter be completdy mixed with the flour, 
make it round, beat it widi the rolling-pin , 
dust it, as also the rolling-pin, with floor, and 
roll it out towards die opposite side of the 
alab, or paste-board, making it of an equal 
thickness; then with the point of a knife put 
little bittf of butter all over it, dust flour over 
and under it, fold in the sides and roll it up, 
dust it again with flour, beat it a little, and 
roll it out, always rubbing the rolling-pin 
with floor, and throwing some underneath the 
paste, to prevent its sticking to the board. 
kf the batter is not aH easily put in at die 



ieoond Ume of roOing out the pa^, dia 
remaiader mav be put in at the third; it 
should be toudned as little as possible wi^ 
the hands. 



PASTE, PYRAMID. Blake a 
puff paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch 
thick, and cut it into five or seven pieoea 
with scalloped tin paste cutters, which go 
one within another; leave die bottom and 
top piece oilire, and cut a bit out of the 
centre of the others; bake them of a lijght 
Inrown upon buttered paper placed upon tins. 
When served, build them into a pyramid, 
laying a difibient preserved fruit upon each 
piece of paste, and cm the top a whole apri- 
cot, with a spcig of myrtle studt into it, or 
creen-gages, ornamented with a buoch of 
oaxberries. 

PASTE FOR MEAT OR SAVORY 
PIES. Sift two pounds of fine flour to one 
and a half of gooa salt butter, break it into 
small pieces, and wash it wdl in cold w»- 
ter ; rub gently toother the buttw and flour* 
and mix it ap with the yolk of three eggs, 
beat together with a spoon ; and near^ a 
pint of spring-water; roll it out, and double 
It in folds three times, and it is ready. 

PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 
four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, 
and a little salt, mix these togedier, addiag 
water, a little at a time, taking care not to 
pot loo much, as this pute must b^ made as 
stiff as possible; wbien thoroc^;hly mixed, 
give it two or three turns, roll it and cut it 
out to the dnpe you want for your pie. 
Sometimes the butter is melted in warm wa- 
ter, and so mixed with the flour; then it 
will not require so much water, and the 
paste will stand better; but as you work 
your paste, when you find it set too cold, 
warm it a little; the first method of doing 
it is the best, if intended to be eaten. • 

PASTE, RICE. (1) Mix together half 
a po«ttid of sifted ground rice and a ^uailer 
of a pound of fresh butter, work it mto a 
paste with cold water, dredge floor over the 
pa8te4jeard and rollin^^in, roll out the 
paste, and put over it^in little bits, another 
quarter of a pound of butter ; fold and roll it 
out three times, strewing each time a little 
floor over and under it, as also over the 
rolling-pin. Cover the tart, and glaze it be- 
fore Iwing baked. This paste mnsttie eaten 
the day it is baked. 

PASTE, RICE. (2) Boil, in a pmt of 
water, half a pound of good rice ; drain off die 
water, and pound the rice in a mortar, with 
a small bit of butter, and an egg beaten ; 
then roll it out to cover any fiidt tart 



PEA 



136 



P£A 



PASTE, RICH SHORT. Weigh 
equal quantities of flour, of butter, and of 
pounded and sifted loaf-sugar; rub the but- 
ter with the flduiv then mix in the sugar, 
and rub it together tiU it will roll out ; put 
it about half an inch thick over the tart, 
which may be of cherries, raspberries, or 
currants. 

PASTE, SHORT, FOR TARTS. 
Take one pound of floui*, lay it on the slab, 
and in the centre put halif a pound of butter, 
two e^gs, a very little salt, and a little wa- 
ter, mix tliem lightly togeJier, and continue 
adding more water, till you find it bind ; mix 
It on the slab a little, and give it two turns, 
it is then ready for use. 

PASTE, SUET. Rub well with half a 
pound of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as 
possible, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
and half a tea-«poonfiil of salt ; make it into 
a stiff paste with cold water, work it well, 
beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out 
two or three times. This paate answers ibr 
any kind of boiled finiit pudding. 

PASTE, SWEET. Rub into half a 
pound of flour three ounces of butler and the 
same of pounded loaf-eugar, add one beaten 
eg^, and as much warm water as will make 
it mto a paste ; roU it thm for any kind of 
firuit tart, rub it over with the beaten white 
of an egg, and s^ sugar over it* 

PASTE FOR STRINGING TART- 
LETS. Mix with your hands a quarter 
of a pound of flour, an ounce of fresh butter, 
and a little cold water; rub it well between 
the board and your hand till it begins to 
■trine; cut it into small pieces, roll it out, 
and draw it into foe strings, lay th»aa across 
TOur tartlets in any device you please, and 
bake them immediately. 

PATTIES FOR FRIED BREAD. Cut 
tfie crumb of a loaf of bread into square or 
round pieces nearly three inches high, and 
cut bits the same width for tops ; mark them 
neatly with a knife ; fry the bread of a light 
brown color in cbrifled beef-drippins or fine 
lard. Scoop out the inside crumb, take 
care not to go too near to the bottom ; fill 
them with mince meat, prepared as for pat- 
ties, with stewed oysters, or with sausage 
meat ; put on the tope, and seiTe them upon 
a napkio. 

PATTIES, LOBSTER. SeeLobttert, 

PEACHES, CHARLOTTE OF. Take 
twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut than in 
halves, and scald them in a light simp ; then 
drain and cut each half into three pieces 



(lengthwise) of equal thicknesa; pot tbem 
into a pan with a quarter of a pound of pow 
der-sugar, and half the q^antity of warm 
butter ; fry them li^^y, and having prqwr- 
ed your Charlotte m the usual way, pdur ia 
the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte). 
When in the dish for table, cover it com- 
pletely with the sirup, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

PEARS BAKED. (1) Take twelve larg» 
baking pears ; pare and cut them into halves, 
leaving the stem about half an inch long; 
take out the core with the point of a knife, 
and place them close together in a block-tut 
saucqnn, the inside of which is quite bright, 
with the cover to fit quite cbse ; put to them 
the rind of a lemon cut thin, with half its 
juice, a small stick of cinnamon, and twenty 
grains of allspice; cover them with springy 
water, and allow one pound of leaPeugar to 
a pint and a half of water: cover them up 
close, and bake them for six hours in a very 
slow oven : they, will be quite tender, apd of a. 
bright color. 06«. — ^Prepared cochineal i» 
^nerally used for coloring the pears; but 
if the above is strictly attended to, it will be 
found to answer best. 

PEARS BAKED. (2) Take half » 
dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, 
and take out the cores; put them into apao 
with a little red wine, a few cloves, httUT a 
pound of sugar, and some water. Set then 
m a moderate oven till tender, then put them 
on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated 
lemon-peel, and more susar if necessary*. 
They will be sufficiently red. 

PEARS COMPOTE. Cbooee your 
fiuit carefiiUy, take off the tops, and trim 
the tails, wash and draia diem well; then 
put them into a skillet with sugar, cinna- 
mon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, 
and some water. Set them on a slow fire, 
taking care to skin them. When sufficiently 
done, they will look wrinkled. Peel vour 
firuit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, 
with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, 
sugar to me taste, and a little water ; put in 
also a pewter spoon; cover the p^kin cJose, 
and set it on hot ashes. When done, the 
pears wiU be of a fine red color. 



PEARS TO COMPOUND. Take a 
dozen large pears, coddle them ; when ten- 
der, take them out and lay tliem m cold wa* 
ter, pare and cut them in halves ; take out 
the cores, put them Jn sirup made thu8:-<-> 
Two pounds and a' half ot sugar to thi^ee 
pinfcB of water, a little lemon-peel pared veiy 
thin, boiled in them, and a little cochin^ 
bruised and |)ut into a muslin bag: cover 
them, boil them quick till they are teodor 



PEA 



137 



PEP 



•ndof •goodoolor; wheno(M» 
of two or dnee lemoDf. 



PEARS PRESERVED. Take care 
an making this pwa cne that die fruit be not 
too ripe; th^ are in a fit state as soon as 
the pips are Uock. Set the pean on the 
fire in a sufficient quantity of water to oover 
them; take them off when quite soft, and 
durow them into cold water; pare them 
liriitty, cot off the stalks, prick each widi a 
pm sufficient^ k>n^ to reach the core, and 
put them again mio cold water, widi a 
Landfill of alum; set diem on the fire to boil 
ontil the peaie are tender, then take diem out, 
and put diem into cold water for the diird 
time. Clarify and boil some sugar, put some 
water to it, and when it boils, Md the pears, 
coyer the pan, and give the whole a boil ; 
akim and pour it into an eaithen pan and 
leave \U The next day, di-ain the sirup 
finom the pearB, add a httle more clarified 
sugar to It, and boil it again ; pour it over 
the fruit, and leave it as before ; the next 
and two successive days, proceed in the same 
way, each time increasing the degree of 
boiling, then add die peara, give the pre- 
serve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into 
a pen, and place it in a stove for two days, 
then drain the firuit, and put it by finr use. 

PEARS STEWED. (1) Wash and prick 
some large stewing pern, and set diem on 
the fire in a laige stewioff-pan of water to 
scald; when scalded, take them out, and 
put diem on the fire in a pan with a sufficient 
qnanti^ of thin clarified susar to cover diem, 
a stick of cinnamon, a littfe mace, and two 
or three cloves; let them stew gently till 
they begin to soften and look rather red, 
then put in a bottle of Port wine, and let 
them continue stewing until perfecdy done, 
and look very rich and red ; then put them 
in a basin or jai', with the liquor over them ; 
they will be all the better for keeping four or 
five days. 

PEARS STEWED. (2) Pare, cot into 
quarters, and take out die core of six ffood 
baking pears; throw them as they are done 
into water. To a pound of fi^it allow a 
quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and three 
cloves; put them into a saucepan, cover 
them with coM water, keep the pan closely 
covered, and stew them gently, till red and 
tender; add, just before serving, a glass of 
port wine, ili^ may be eaten hot or cold, 
with cream, after dinner or at supper. 

PEAS, GREEN. Young green peas, 
well dressed, are amonff the most delicious 
delicacies of the vegetable kingdom. They 
must be young; it is equally indispensahfe 

12* 



that they be fredi catherad, and oookad at 
soon as they are shelled for they soon losi 
both dieir color and sweetness. After beiqg 
shelled, wash diem, drain them in a cullen- 
der, put them on in pkn^ of boiling water* 
with a tea>spoonfiil of sak, and one <M pound- 
ed loaf stt|ar; boil them till thqr beoome 
tender, which, if younff, will be in leas than 
half an hour; if old, they will require more 
than an hour; dram tmm in a cullender, 
and put them immediately into a dish with 
a shce of fresh butter in it; some people 
think it animpre'vementtoboilasmaUbunch 
of mint with the peas; it is then minced 
finely, and laid in small heaps at the end or 
sides <^ the dish. If peas are albwed to 
stand in the water after being boiled they 
lose their color. 

PEAS FOR A SECOND COURSE. 

Put a auart of fine ^reen peas, together with 
a bit « butter the site of a walnut, into as 
much warm water as will cover them, m 
which let them stand for ei^t or ten min- 
utes. Strain off the water, put them bto a 
saucepan, cover it, stir them frequently, and 
when a little tender, add a bunch of parsl^, 
and a voung onion, nearly a dessert-spoonnd 
of loaHRigar, and an ounce c^ butter mixed 
with a tea-spoonfiil of flour; keep stirring 
them now and then till the peas be tender, 
and add, if they beoome too thick, a table- 
spoonfid of hot water. Before serving, take 
out the onion and pardey. 

PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of 
good iqilit peas, and having washed, soak 
diem well in wann water; then tie them in 
a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan of 
hot water, and boil it until quite soft. When 
done, beat it up with a little butter and salt; 
serve it with boiled pork or beef. 

PEAS POWDER. Pound togedier 
in a marble mortar lialf an ounce each of 
dried mint and sage, a drachm of celery- 
seed, and a quarter of a drachm of cayenne 
pepper; rub them through a fine sieve. This 
gives a very savory relish to peas soup, and 
to water gruel, which, by its help, if the 
eater of it has not the most lively imagina- 
tion, he may foncy he is sipping good peas 
soup. 06s. — ^A drachm of allspice, or black 
pepper, may be pounded with the above as 
an addition, or instead of the cayenne. 



PEPPER POT. Take as much spinach 
as will fill a good sited dish, put it in a 
saucepan withmit any water, set it on the 
fire, and let it boil ; then drain off all die li- 
quor, chop the spinach very fine, and retmn 
it to the saucepan, with the water just drain- 
ed firom it> more water, onkms, three or four 



FSR 



183 



PIC 



potttamp a fettnoB or head of endive cot 
wuJI, tbe boBes of m cold rooflt meat, if 
you have tbem, and hair a pound of faaoon ; 

Kt tbe whole oa tbe firet and when it has 
iled for about an hour, put in a few met 
dqakplings; leave it twenty or thirty min- 
utes longer; season it well witfi cayenne^and 
serve. 

PEPPER POT IN A TUREEN. Stew 
gently in four quarts of water, till reduced to 
Uiree, three pounds of heef, half a pound of 
Jean ham, a bunch of dried thyme, two on- 
ions, two large potatoes pared and slioed ; 
then strain it thiXNigh a cullender, and add 
a large fowl, cut into joints and skinned, 
half a pound of pickled pork sliced, the 
meat of one lobster minced, and some small 
suet dumplings, the size of a walnut. When 
the fowl is weH boiled, add half j peck of 
niinach, that has been boiled and rubbed 
through a cullender; season witli salt and 
cayenne. It is very good without the lean 
ham and fowl. 

PERCH BOILED. Put them intocokl 
water, and let them boil carefully ; serve with 
melted butter and soy. 

PERCH BROILED. Scrape, gut, and 
wash diem ; dry them in a cloth, dust them 
with flour, and broil them. Sauce ; — smelted 
Ijutter. Or they may be broiled without 
gutting them. The^ may also be stewed as 
carp are done. 

PERCH WITH WINE. Havmg scal- 
ed and taken out the gills, put the perch into 
a stewpan, with e()ual quantities of stock 
and white wine, a Tny-leaf, a clove of gar- 
lic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two 
cloves, and some salt. When done, take 
out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs 
of which mix with some butter and a litUe 
flour; beat these up, set them on the fire, 
stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated 
nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy butter. Drain 
the perch well, and dish them with the above 
sauce. 

PERLINGO. Take a pound and a half 
of sifted flour, and having placed it on your 
sbb, make a hole in the middle of it, into 
which put three-quarters of a pound of brown 
sugar, half a pound of fresh batter, the rind 
of two lemons grated, and ten eggs ; knead 
all these ingredients together wen, until you 
have a pretty &rm paste ; if it should be too 
thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut 
the paste into small pieces, each of which 
roll in the palms of your hands, till they are 
die lenffth and thickness of your finger ; t^e 
a roimd stick (about half the diametaar of your 



pule), prwi tbia dowB on each of tb* 
pieces, so that thev nny be tlieir origBnl 
thickness on one side, and ihin on the omer ; 
when att are thus pressed, form tfacm inta 
little crowns (tbe flat side inwards, and the 
thin end apperaaost), lay them <mi white p»- 
pcr, and bake tiiem in a modwate oven; m 
the meanwhile, aoake sfNBoe white sugar var- 
nish or icinff, and when the periingos arc 
sufficioitly daae, dip them carefiiUy in the 
vamirii, one by one; then repkoe them iu 
the oven, a minute or two, to dry. 

PERRY. Perry is a pleasant and whole- 
some liquor, made from tbe juice of pears, 
by means of fermentation, somewhat in the 
same manner as cido* is made fipom af^Ies. 

PETTITOES. Boil the feet, the liver, 
and the heait, c^ a sncking pig, in a little 
water, ver}' gently, Uien split the feet, and 
cot the meat very small, and simmer 4t with 
a little of die water till the feet are perfectly 
tender^ thicken with a bit of butter, a littfe 
flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper 
and salt ; give it a boil up, pour it over a few 
sippets of bread, put the feet on the mince. 

PICKLE FOR MEAT. Six pound9 
of salt, one pound of sugar, and fcHir ounce* 
of saltpetre, boiled with four gaflons of water, 
skimmed, and allowed to cool, forms a very 
strong pickle, which will presove any meat 
completely imn>ersed in it. To effect this, 
which is essential, either a heavy board or a 
flat stone must be laid upon die meat. Tlie 
same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided 
it be boiled up occasionally with additional 
salt to restore its strength, diminished by the 
combination of part of the salt with the 
meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by 
the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, 
the albumen, which would cause the pickle 
to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form 
of scum, which must be carefully removed. 

An H4x>ne, of ten or twelve pounds, 
weight will require about three-quarters of a 
pound of sak, and an ounce of moist sugar, 
to be well rubbed into it. It wilt be ready 
in four or five days, if tivned and mbl^ed 
every day. 

The time meat requires salting dqsende 
upcMi the weight of it, and how much salt b 
used: and if^it be rubbed in with a heavy 
hand, it will be reachf muclv sooner than if 
onfy lightly rubbed. 

N. B. Dry the salt, and rda it with the 
surar in a mortar. 

Pork requires a longer time to cure (in 
proportion to its weight) than beef. A leg 
of pork should be in sak eight or ten days; 
torn it and rub it every day. 

Sah meat ahouki be weU washed befbie it 



PIE 



139 



PIE 



1b boiled, especiafly if it has been in anh 
loiw, that the Uquor in which the meat b 
botfed, may not be too fait to make aoiip of. 
If it hat been in sak a long time, and you 
fear that it will be too nit, waih it well in 
cold water, and soak it in lake-warm water 
for a ooiq>le of hoars. If it i« very aoA, 
lay it in water the night before yoa intend to 
diisB it. 

PICKLE FOR TONGUES. To foor 
gallons of water, add two poonds and a 
half of treacle, eight pounds of salt, two 
ounces of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it un- 
til clear, sprinkle salt over tlie tongue, and 
let it Btana two days, wipe it cle^ before 
you put it into the pickle, which must be quite 
cold; boil Uie pickle, every two or thi'ee 
mcHiihs, adding two or diree nandfuls of salt, 
skimming it well. Half the quantity is suf- 
ficient for two tongues. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF. Allow to four 
gallons of water two pounds of brown sugar 
and six pounds of salt, boil it about twenty 
minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; the 
following day poiv it over the meat which 
has been packed into the pickling-tub. Boil 
it every two months, adding three ounces of 
brown sugar and Imlf a |xiund of common 
salt. &^ this means it will keep gtxid a 
year. Tlie meat must be sprinkled with 
salt, and the next day wiped dry, before 
pouring the pickle over it, witli which it 
sliould always be completely covered. With 
tlie addition of two ounces of saltpetre and 
one pound of salt, this pickle answers for 
pickled pork, hams, and tongues. Tlie 
tongtics should be ruh^ied with common salt, 
to cleanse them, and afterwards with a little 
saltpetre, and allowed to lie foor or five days 
liefore tb^ are put into the pickle. The 
meat will be ready for use in eight or ten 
days, and will keep for tliree months. 

PICKLES. Pickles ought to be stored 
in a dry place and the vessels most approv- 
ed of for keeping them in, are wide-moutl>* 
ed ^iass bottles, or strong stone-ware jars, 
having corks or bungs, which most be fitted 
ui with linen, and covered with bladder or 
leather ; and for taking the pickles out and 
netuming them to the jar, a small wooden 
spoon is kept* The strongest vinegar is 
used for pickling; tliat of cider taore partic- 
ularly recommended, but suffar vin^far will 
generally be found sufficiently strong. It is 
essential to the excellence and beauty of 
pickles, that they be alvraiys completely cov- 
ered with vinegar. 

See Hot Pieklet, India Pickles, Onima, 
Cucumbere, ^c, ^e. 

PIE, ANGLO-FRANCAIS. Take a 



deep dish, line the edge with puff vmibd likt 
a oomraon pie; stew a quuter or a pound 
oi rioe with some sugar until quite soft and 
sweet; take a pound of ripe juicy cherriesy 
which pkk and roll in a quarter of a pound 
of powder<«ugar, and lav about a qnarler of 
them at the bottom of the dish; cover these 
with a fourth part of the rice, then thecher<» 
ries again, and so on till your materials are 
leed, taking care to keep the pie hi^ in the 
middle; cawr it with a kiyer of pim peste^ 
which wash over lishtly with some white of 
^[g, and strew a little powdor-sngar over; 
put it in a moderate oveirAMr an hour and a 
quarter; tlien take it out, mask the crust 
with apricot marmalade, and a few maca- 
roons cnished. Serve it eidier liot or cold* 



PIE, APPLE. (1) Take eight 
tings, or lenxm pippin apples; pare, core, 
and cut not smaller tlian quaiters; place 
tliem as close as possible together into a pie* 
dish, witii four ofoves; rub tooetlier in a 
mortar some lemon-peel, wiUi four ounces 
of good moist sugar, and, if agreeable, add 
some quince jam ; cover it with puff paste ; 
bake it an liour and a quarter. (CieneiBlly 
eaten warm). 

PIE, APPLE. (2) Pare, quarter, and 
core die apples; cut tbem into thin bits. 
Put into tlie bottom of a pie-dish a table* 
i^)oonful of brown sugar, wiUi a tea-spoon* 
fol of grated ginger aiiti lemon-peel, then 
a layer of apples, and so on aJlemately, 
till the dial) is piled as full as it will hold. 
The next day wet tlte rim of the dish, line 
it with puff or tart paste, brusli it with wa- 
ter, and cover it with paste; press tlie edge 
all round, notch it with a paste*cutter, and 
make a small lioic widi tlie point of a knife 
in the middle. It may be seasoned with 
two taUe-epoonfuls of lemon ot* orange mar- 
malade, pounded cinnamon, mace, and 
cloves, in addition to the gihger and lemon- 
peel. 

PIE, APPLE WITH MUSCADEL 
RAISINS. Peel twenty renneting apples, 
cut them in quarters, and dien cut each qiiar- 
ter into five or six pieces ; toss tliem in a 
pan with four ounces of sugar in powder^ 
(over which should be grated the peel of a 
lemon), fom* ounces of butter hikewai-m, 
and four ounces of fine muscadel plums* 
Line die edge of a deep diuh with a good 
puff paste, then put in your fruit, and cover 
your disli with a good puff paste a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, glaze with the white 
of an egg, and strew sugar over it. Let it 
bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve 
it liot. 

PIE, APRICOT. Line a dish with puff 



PIE 



140 



PI£ 



(Htfte, and then pat in eiglileen fine apricots, 
(cut in halves and tlie stones taken out,) 
with four ounces of sugar in powder, and 
fimr ounces of butter lukewarm. Tlien lay 
on the unper crust, elaze with the white of 
egff, ana rtrew sifltea sugar all over. Let it 
bake in a moderate oven to a nice light col- 
or. Serve it hot* When you wish to serve 
it cold, you must leave out the butter. 

PIE, BEEF KIDNEY. Cut some kid- 
n^ into thin slices, and place tliem in 
the bottom uf your pie-dish, dien sweet 
herbs chopped, such as parsley, tliyine, slial- 
lots, mushrooms, pepper, and ^t; con- 
tinue this till the dish is full, then cover the 
whole with slices of bacon, then finish your 
pie ; bake it in the oven ; when done, take 
out the bacon, and skim off the lal; make a 
sauce with a glaiss of white wine, a tolerable 
quantity of cuUis, and reduce it to the con- 
sistence of a good sauce, then srjueeze an 
orange in it. Serve your pie hot. 

PIE, BEEF-STEAK. Cut the steaks off 
a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and 
lean together, about half an inch tliick ; beat 
them a little witli a rolling-pin, put over 
them some pepper, salt, and parboiled onion 
minced ; roll tliem up, and pack them neatly 
into the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add 
some spoonfuls of gravy, and a tea-spoonfiil 
of vinegar. Cover the pie with a puff paste, 
and baKe it for an hour. It is a common 
but mistaken opinion, that it is necessaiy 
to put stock or water into meat pies. Beef, 
mutton, veal, and pork, if not previously 
dressed, will be found to yield a sufficiency 
of gravy, and the pie will be better without 
any additional liquid. N. B. — Lai^ oys- 
ters, parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately 
with the steaks, their liquor reduced and 
substituted instead of the ketchup and wine, 
will be a variety. 

PIE, CHICKEN. Parboil, and then 
cut up neatly two vuung cliickena ; dry^ them ; 
set tliem over a slow fire for a few minutes ; 
have ready some veal stuffing or forcemeat, 
lay it at tne bottom of die dish, and place in 
the chickens upon it, and with it some pie- 
ces of dressed ham; cover it with paste. 
Bake it from an hour and a half to two 
hours ; when sent to table, add some good 
gravy, well seasoned, and not too thick, 
thick pie is made in like manner, only sub- 
stituting the duck stuffing instead of the veal. 
N. B. — The above may be put into a raised 
French crust and baked ; when done, take 
off tlie top, and put a ragout of sweetbread 
to die chicken. 

PIE, COD. Lay a fine piece of fresh 
cod in salt foi* seveial hours, then wash it 



well, season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg an«f 
mace ; place it in a dish, with a little bitt- 
IjOt and Boaae good stock. Lay a crurtxiver, 
and bake it; when done, pour in a sauce, 
made as (bllows:— -a spoonfiil of stodL, a 
quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, 
grate in a little nutmeg and lonon-peel, and 
a few oysters, boil die whole once. 

PIE, COLD BEEF, VEAL, OR MUT- 
TON. Pound in a mortar some Imiled po- 
tatoes; boil a cupfiil of milk, and while Iiot, 
mix it with the potatoes, and beat them till 
they become like a light paste; roll it out, 
cut it with a fiat disli, the size of a pie dish, 
so as it may be laid from off it upon die 
pie ; cut tiie meat into slices, season it with 
pef^per and salt, put half a pint of gravy, wet 
die edges of the dish, and put over it die 
paste, and hake it till die paste be sufficiendy 
done. 

PIE, DEVIZES. Cnt into very thin 
slices, after being dressed, cold calPs iiend, 
with some of die brains, pickled tongue, 
sweetbreads, lamb, veal, a few slices of Ui- 
con, and hard-boiled eggs; put diem in lay- 
ers into a pie-dish, with plenty of seiisoning 
between each, of cayenne, white pepper, 
allspice, and salt; fill up die dish wiUi rich 
gi-avy ; cover it with a Hour aii<l water paste ; 
bake it in a slow oven, and when pei fe<Uly 
cold, take off the crust, and tiini die pie <Hit 
upon a dish; garnish it with pai-slev ami 
pickled eg^ cut into slices. 

PIE, DUCK. Scald a couple of ducks, 
and make them very clean ; cut off the feel, 
pinions, necks, and heads. Take out die 
gizzards, livers, and hearts ; pick all clean, 
and scald them. Pick out the fat of die in- 
side, lay a good puflP-pai^te crust all over die 
dish, season the ducks both inside and out, 
with pe|;^r and salt, and lay tliem in die 
dish, with the giblets at each end, properly 
seasoned. Put in as mucli water as will 
nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it 
be well baked. 

PIES, EGO MINCE. Boil six eggs 
until they are hard, shred them small ; shied 
double the quantity of suet ; thai add one 
pound of currants picked and washed, (if 
the eggs were large you must use more cur- 
rants) the peel of one lemon shred very fine, 
and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, 
mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity 
of salt, orange, leuiou, and citron candied. 
Make a light paste for them. 

PIE, FRENCH. Mince some cold roast 
veal together with a little ham, season it 
highly with |>epper, salt, mace, and lemon- 
peel; add a laige ubte-spoonfiil of nkush- 



PIE 



141 



PIB 



toom ketdnq), and a ooarCer of a biradred 
ci oysten, with their liquor, and thnoe or 
§bwt table-spocMifak of rich grav^. Line a 
diah with puff plute, pot in ue ingredients* 
coter the pie, and let it raoiain in the oven 
long «aqugfa to bake the paste. 

FIE, GIBLET, Stew the giblets in a 
little water, with an onion stock with two or 
three cloves, a bunch o( s%feet herbs, some 
■ak, and whole peppd*; cat a fowl into 
joints, skin and wash it, season it with pep- 
per, saJt, and hatf an onion finely minced. 
Take out the onion, herbs, and whole pe|>- 
per ; put the fowl, giblets, and gravv into a 
diah, add ^ glass of white wine, and two ta- 
ble<«poonfiib <^ mushroom ketchup; cover 
the dish with puff paste, and bake it for an 
hour. 

PIE, GOOSE. Prepare a very stronff 
raised crust, and make the sides thick and 
stiff. Take the bones oat of a goose, tiur- 
key, and fowl, catting each down the back ; 
season them higlily with pepper, salt, mace, 
cloves, and nutmeg, all findf^ pounded and 
well mixed. Lay the goose upon a dish, 
with the-breast win next the dish; lay in 
the turkey, put some slices of boiled ham 
and toagae, and dien the fowl ; cover it with 
little bits of ham or bacon. Put it all into 
the pie, made of wn oval fonn, and the sides 
to stand an inch and a half above the meat; 
put on the top, and make a hole in the oen* 
tre of it. Brush the outside of the pie all 
over with the beaten whites of esgs, and 
bind it round with tlvee folds of mittored 
paper; paste the top over in the same way, 
and whcni it comes out of the oven, take off 
the paper, and pour in at the top, through a 
funnel, a pound and a half of melted butter. 

PIES, LOBSTER. Set Lobtter. 

PIE, ITALIAN. Mix together some 
chopped thyme, parale]^, and one or two sage 
leaves, some salt, white and cavenne pep- 
per ; kiy into the bottom of a dish some thm 
slices of lean veal, sprinkle them with the 
seasoning, and add slices of ham, and a few 
forcemeat balls; put a layer <^ seasoned 
veal, and of ham and forcemeat balls, till the 
dish is foil, and then add the yolks of five 
hard-boiled eggs, and smne good white stock ; 
cover the dish with a puff paste, and bake 
it for an hour. Before serving, pour in, 
through a funnel at the centre m the crust, 
a tea-cu[^l of rich cream. 

PIES, MAIGRE FISH. Salt-fish pie. 
The thickest part must be chosen, and put 
in cold water to soak the night before want- 
ed ; then boil it well, take it up, take awa^ 
the bones and skin, and if it is good fish it 



will be in fine lasers; set it on a fth-drmia 
er to get cokl: m the meantime, boil fear 
eggs hard, peel and slice them very thin, 
the same quantity o( onion sliced thin; lias 
the bottom of a pieniish with fish forcaneat, 
or a layer of potatoes sliced thin, then m 
layer of oai<Mis, thai of fish, and of egn, and 
so cm till the dish is foil; season eadb layer 
with a little pepper, then mix a tea'Spoonfid 
of made mustard, dw same of essence of an- 
chovy, a little mushroom ketchop, in a gill 
of water, put it in the dish, then put on the 
top an ounce of fresh batter broke in bits; 
cover it with puff paste, and bakeit one 
hour. Fresh ood may be done in the same 
way, by adding a little salt. All fish for 
making pies, whether soles, flounders, her- 
rings, saim(»d, lobster, eels, trout, tench, &c. 
should be dressed first; this is the most 
economical way for Catholic fiunilies. 

PIES, MINCE. (1) GsrefuDy stone and 
cut, but not too small, one pound and a half 
of bloom raisins ; cut small half a pound of 
oranae-peel, mince finely half a doien of 
middliog-sized good apples, a quarter of a 
pound df sweet aJmonoB, pounded to a paste 
with a little white wine, half a nutmeg prat- 
ed, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, one 
head of clove, and a little cinnamon pound- 
ed; one pound and a half of firesh bea suet, 
finely minced, one pound of good brown su 
gar; mix, all these ingredients extremely 
well, and add half a pint of white wine, and 
one riass of brandy. Pack it closely into 
nnalf stone jars, and tie them over with pa- 
per. When it is to be used, add a little more 
wine. 

PIES, MINCE. <2) Cot the root off a 
neat's tongue, rub the tongue well with salt, 
let it lie tour days, wash it perfectW clean, 
and boil it till it becomes tendor; skin, and 
whm cold, chop it very finely. Mince as 
small as possible two pounds of fresh beef 
suet from the sirloin, stone and cut small two 
pounds of bloom raisins, clean nicely two 
pounds of currants, pound and sift half an 
ounde of mace and a quarter of an ounce of 
cloves, grate a large nutm^; mix all tliese 
ingredients thorowhiy, togetiier with one 
pound and a half of good brown sugar. 
Pack it in jars. When it is to be used, al- 
low, i<Hr the cj^umitity sufficient to make 
twelve small mmee pies, five finely-minced 
apples, the grated riad and juice oi a large 
l^inon, and a wineglass and a half of brandy ; 
put into each a few bits of citron and pre- 
served orange-peel. Three or four vrhxAa 
green lemons, preserved in good brown su- 
gar, and cut into thin slices, may be added 
to the mince meat. 

PIES, BRANDY, MINCE. Clean a 



PIE 



142 



PIE 



pooiKi of cnmnli, miooe a pound of non- 
pareil apples, and one of fredi beef Met ; 
pound a poimd of loaf sugar; weigh each 
article alwr being prepared ; the peel at two 
lemomgrated, andthe juioeofcme; aquar- 
ter of a pound of citrcm, the tame of orange- 
ped minted. Mix dl these ingredients 
well with a quart of brandy. 

PIES, LEMON MmCE. Weigh one 
pound of fine* huge lemons, cut them in half, 
squeease out the juice, and pick the palp from 
the skins; boil them in water till trader, 
and pound than in a mortar; add half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar, the same of 
nicely cleaned camuits, and of j^vsh beef 
suet minced, a little grated nutmeg, and 
citron cut small. Mix all these ingredients 
well, and fill the patty-pans with ramer more 
of the mince than is nsially put. 

PIE, MUTTON OR VEAL. Cat into 
chops, and trim neatly, and cut away the 
greatest part ctf the &t of a loin,- or best end 
of a neck of mutton (the formor the best), 
season them, and lay than in % pie-dish, 
with a little water and half a giU of murii- 
room ketcliup (duopped onion and potatoes, 
if approved) ; cover it with paste, bake it 
two hours; when dc»e, lift up the ejrust fixMn 
the dish with a knife, pour out all the gravy, 
let it stand, and skim it clean; add, >f 
, wanted, ^me more seasoning; make it boil, 
and pour it into the pie. Veal pie may be 
made of the brisket part of the breast; but 
must be parboiled first 

PIE, PIGEON OR LARK. Truss 
half a dozen fine lai^ pigeons as for stew- 
ing, season them with pepper and salt; lay 
at the bottom of the dish a rump^leak of 
about a pound weiglit, cut into pieces and 
trimmed neatly, seasoned, and beat out with 
a chopper: on it lay the pigeons, the yolks 
of three ^|gs boiled hard, and a gill of broth 
or water, and over these a layer of steaks ; 
wet the edge of the dish, ancT cover it over 
with puff paste, or the paste as directed for 
seasoned pies ; wai^ it over with yolk of 
e^, and ornament it with leaves of paste and 
tlie feet of the pigeons ; bake it an hour and 
a half in a moderate-heated oven: before it 
is sent to table make an aperture in the top^ 
and pour in some good gravy quite hot. ^ 

PIE, RAISED PORK. Make a rais- 
ed crust, of a good size, about four inches 
high ; taJie the rind and chine bone fit>m a 
loin of pork, cut it into clu^, heal them 
with a chopper, season them with pepper 
* and salt, and fill your pie; put on the top 
and close it, and pindi it round the edge ; 
rub it over with yolk of eg^, and bake it two 
hours with a paper o\'er it, to prevent the 



ciust finom bumii^. When done, pour in 
some good grevyt with a little ready-mixed 
mustard (if approved). N. B.— As the 
above is generally eaten caUdy it is an excel- 
lent repast for a jonm^, and will keep for 
several days. 

PIE, POTATO. Peel and dkse your 
potatoes very thin into a pie-dish ; between 
each layer at potatoes put a little chopped 
onion (three-quarters of an ounce of onion is 
sufficiont for a pound of potatoes) ; between 
each layer sprinkle a little pepper and salt; 
put in a little water, and cut about two 
ounces of fi'esh butter into little iMts, and lay 
tliem on the top: cover it close with pufr 
paste. It will take about mi hour and a half 
to hake it. N. B. The yolks of four eggs 
(boiled hard) may be added; and what 
baked, a table-spoonfol of good mushroom 
ketchup poured in throu|rh a funnel. Ob». — 
Gauliflowers divided into mouthfiils, and 
button onions, seasoned with curry-powder, 
&c. make a fovorite vegetable pie. 

PIES, RAISED, MUTTON OR 
PORK. Put two pounds anda half of flour 
on the paste-board; and put on the fire, in a 
saucepan, three-quarters of a pint <tf water, 
and half a pound of good lard ; when the 
water boils, make a mle in the middle of 
tlie flour, pour in the water and burd fay de- 
grees, gently mixing the flour with it with 
a spoon ; and when it is well mixed, then 
knead it with your hands till it bec<Mnes stiff: 
dredge a little flour to prevent its sticking to 
the bomtl, oryou cannot make it look smooth : 
do not roll it with the rollings^iu, but roll it 
with your hands, about the thickness of a 
quart pot; cut it into six pieces, leavii^ a 
little for the covers; put one l^md in the 
middle, and keep the other close on the out- 
side till you have worked it either in an oval f 
or a ixNind sliape: have your meat ready cut, 
and seasoned with pepper and salt: if pork, 
cut in small slices ; the griskin .is the best 
for pastieu if you use mutUm, cut it in very 
neat cutlets, and put them in llie pies bb you 
make them; roll out the covers with the 
rolling-pin just the size of tlie pie, wet it 
round the ed^, put it on the pie, and press 
it together with your thumb and finger, and 
then cut it all round with a pair <^ scissmv 
quite even, and pinch them inside and out, 
and bake them an hour and a half. 

PIE, RAISED FRENCH. Make 
about two pounds of flour into a pofte; knead 
it well, and into the shape of a ball ; press 
your diumb into tlie centre, and wcvk it by 
degrees into any shape (oval^or round is the 
most general), till about five Indies high; 
put it on a sheet of paper, and fill it with 
coarse flour or bran; roll out a covering foi 



i 



<• 



PI£ 



143 



PIQ 



it about the Mine tfakkncH w thetidet; ce- 
ment its tides with the yoflL of egg; cat tlie 
edgei quite even, and pinch it roiaid with the 
finfor and tiaimb, rub yolk of en over it irith 
a paflle4inBh, and ornament it in an^ wuy 
huey may direct, with the eame kind of 
paete. mke it <^a fine brown color, in a 
■low oven ; and when done, cut out the top, 
remove the flour or bran, brush it quite 
clean, and fill it up with a fricasiee of chick- 
en, rabbit, or any other miree most conve- 
nient. Send it to table with a napkin under. 

PIE, HAM RAISED. Soak a sraaU 
ham four or five hours; wash and scrape it 
well; cut off the knuckle, and boil it for 
half an hour; then take it up and trim it very 
neatly ; take off the rind and put it into an 
oval stewpan, with a pint of Madeira or 
Sherry, and enough veal stock to cover it. 
Let it stew for two hours, or till three parts 
done; take it out and set it in a cold 
place; then raise a cnnt as in the foregoing 
receipt, large enough to receive it; put in 
the ham, and round it the veal forcemeat ; 
cover and ornament; it will take abotit an 
hour and a half to bake in a slow oven: 
when done, take off the cover, gkue the top, 
and pour round the following sauce, viz. take 
the liquor the ham was stewed in ; skim it 
free from fitf; thicken with a little flour and 
butler mixed togetlier; a few drops of brown- 
ing, and some cayenne pepper. 

PIE, SEA. Skin and cut into joints a 
brge fowl ; wash and lay it into cold water 
for an hour; out some salt beef into tliin 
slices, and if it is vety salt, soak it a short 
time in water; make a paste of flour and 
butter in the proportkm of half a pound of 
butter to one of flour, cut it into rouiid pieces 
according to the size of the Imtlom of the 
pot in which the pie is to be stewed; rub 
with butter the bottom of a round iron pot, 
and lay in a layer of the beef, seasoned with 
(lepper, and finely<4ninced onion ; then pot a 
layer of the paste, and then the fowl, highly 
s'.jas(Hied with pepper, onion, and a little 
salt ; add another laver of paste, and pour 
ill three pints of cold water ; cover the put 
ck-sely, and let it stew gendy for neai-ly four 
Ikhuv, taking care it does not burn, which, 
if nefflected, it is apt to do. It is served in 
a pudding diah, ana answers well for a fomily 
dinner. 

PIE, SaUAB, OR DEVONSHIRE. 
Take a few good baking-apples, pare, core, 
and slice them; chop some onions very 
small ; line a deep dish with paste, put in a 
layer of the apples, sti-ew a little sugar, and 
some of the chopped onions over them ; sea- 
son them, and lay lean mutton chops, abo 
seasoned, more onions, then the aisles, &c 



as befoie, and so on tifl the dkh is qoM 
full; cover, and bake the pie. 

PIE, SQUASH. One pint of sqna h, 
stewed and strained; one pmt of milk, and 
oneof cream; teneggs; half teaoapofrosn- 
water; quarter pound of sii^gar, and one 
grated nutmeg. Bake in platts lined widi 
puff paste. 

PIE, SWEETBREAD. Paiboil five 
or six sweetbreads; out them imo two or 
three pieces, stew them ten orfiAeen minutes 
in a lihle while stock, with some chopped 
sliallot, a bit of butter rolled in flour, some 
sak, and white pepper, and a good many 
mushrooms. Put them into a pi^ish, Hitli 
some asparagUB tops, forcemeat balb, and 
hard-boiled yoUcs of egg>» and slices of fat 
bacon on the top; cover it, and bake it tiU 
the paste be done enough ; or it may be put 
into a vol-au-vent, and served upon a nap- 
kin ; or baked in a plate. 

PIE, VEGETABLE. Of a variety of 
vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, pota- 
toes, artichiAe bottoms, cauliflower, French 
beans, peas, and small butt<m onions, equal 
quantities of each ; half boil them in good 
broth for a short time, put them into a pie 
dish, cover it witii puff paste, and bake it in 
a slow oven ; make a gravy of a bit of veal, 
a slice of ham, pepper, salt, a boy leaf, musli- 
rooms, shallots, parsley, and an union; when 
it has boiled thick, strain the liquor, and mix 
in three or four tableH^xwnfols Scream, and 
pour it into the pie before being served. Tlie 
cream may be omitted. 

PIG, Is in prime order for the spit when 
aliout three weeks old. 

It loses part of its goodness every hour af- 
ter it is killed ; if not quite fresh, no art can. 
make the crackling crisp. 

To be in perfection, it should be killed in 
the niorninff to be eaten at dinner: it reqiiircw 
very carefol roasting. A, sucking-pig, like 
a young child, must not be left fur an in- 
stant. 

Tlie ends must have much more fire than 
the middle: for this purpose is contrivod an 
iron to hang before the middle part, called a 
pig-iron. If you have not this, use a cuiu- 
mun flat iron, or keep the fire fiercest at die 
two ends. 

For the stufling, take of the crumb of a 
stale kMTabout five ounces; rub it through a 
colander; mince fine a handfol of sage (t. e, 
about two ounces), and a large onion (about 
an ounce and a half). Mix these together 
with an egg, some pepper and sak, and a bit 
of butter as big as an egg. Fill tlie belly of 
the pig widi ^is, and sew it vp: lay it to 
the fire, and baste it with sahd oil till it m 



PIQ 



]44 



PIG 



quilt done. Do not leave it a momeiit: it 
requires the vaoak vigilant attendance. 

Roast it at a clear, brisk fire at some dis- 
tance. To gain the praise of epicurean pig- 
eaters, the cracklinff must be nicely crisped 
and delicately lightly browned, without be- 
ing either blistered or burnt. 

A small, three weeks old pig will be done 
enough in about an hour and a half. 

Bdbre you take it from the fire, cut off the 
bead, and part that and the body down the 
middle: chop the brains very fine, with seme 
boiled sage leaves, and mix tliem with good 
veal ^vy, or beef gravy, or what runs from 
the pig when you cut its head off. Send up 
a tureonful of gravy besides. Currant sauce 
is still a favorite with some of tlie old school. 

Lay your pig back to back in the dish, 
with one half of tlie head on each side, and 
the ears one at each end, which you must 
take care to make nice and crisp; or you 
will get scolded, and deserved^, as the silly 
fellow was who bought his wite a pig witli 
onlv one ear. 

Whai you cut off die pettitoes, leave the 
skin long round tlie ends of the legfs. Wlien 
you first lay the pig befiure the fire, rub it all 
over with fresh butter or salad oil: ten 
minutes after, and the skin looks dry; 
dredge it well with flour all over, let it re- 
main on an hour, then rub it off widi a soft 
ck>th. 

N. B. A pig is a very troublesome subject 
to roast; most persons have them baked. 
Send a quarter of a pound of butter, and beg 
the baker to baste it well. 

PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, 
flour it well all over, tlien rub it over witli 
butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put 
it into the oven. When done enough, take 
it out, and rub it over witli a butter cloth ; 
then put it again into tlie oven till it is dry, 
then take it out and. lay it in a di^ ; cut it 
up, take a little veal gravy, and take off tlie 
fat in the dish it was baaed in, and there 
will be some good gravy at the bottom; put 
that to the veal gravy, with a little bit of but- 
ter, i-olled in flour ; l^oil it up, and put it in 
a dish in which tlie pig has been laid, and 
put the brains with some sage into die belly. 
Some persons like a pig to be brought to 
table whole, in which case you are only to 
put what sauce you like into the dish. 

PIG, BARBICUED. Scakl,&c.,apig, 
of about nine or ten weeks old, tlie same as 
for roasting; make a stuffing with a few 
sage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two an- 
chovies boned, washed^ and cut extremely 
small; put them into a mortar, with some 
bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
a very little cayenne pepper, and half a pint 
of Madeira wine; b^ them to a paste, and 



■ew it up m (he pig; by itatagoaddiatanoa 
befera a large brisk &re; nage it well; put 
two bottles of Madeira wine into the .drip* 
ping-pui, and keep basting it all the tine it 
IS roasting; when half done, put two Frttsch 
rolls wto ue drippingpui ; and if there is noC 
wine amagh in the (feippingpon, add more: 
when the pig is newlv done, take the ndls 
and sauce, and put tnem into a sauoepan, 
with an andiovy cut small, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, and the juioe of a lonon ; take up the 
pig, send it to table with an ap|de in its 
mouth, and a roll cm each side ; then strain 
the sauoe over iL 

Some barincue a pig of six or sevoi wedcs 
old, and stick it all over with blanched al- 
monds, and baste it in the same manner with 
Madeira wine. 

PIG, TO COLLAR. Cut off the feet, 
head, ajMl tail ; bone and wash it well, and 
dry it in a clodi. Season it highly with a 
quantity of pepper and sak; roll it up firmly, 
and ^ind it with a piece of linen ; sew it 
tightly. Put it on in boiling water, with the 
bones, let it boil for an hour, then put it un- 
der a weight to press till it be oold, and take 
off the cloth. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO COLLAR. Strew 
over a pig's &ce,and a neat's or pig's tongue, 
a little salt and saltpetre ; let it stand eight 
or nine days, tiien boil them with two tow* 
lieels, till all be sufiiciently tender to admit 
of tlie bones being taken out ; lay upon a 
dish a piece of strong cloth, put the cheek 
upon it with die rind dowuMrards ; season it 
highly with peppor, cloves, and a little salt ; 
add the tongue and cow-heels, with more 
seasoning'; roll and sew it up firmly, put it 
into a jar and boil it for two hours, then 
press it with a lieavy weight, and whe« cold 
takeoff the cloth. Tlie cow^Jieel-may he 
omitted, and both dieeks used. 

PIG'S CHEEK, TO CURE. Strew 
salt over it, and let it lie two or three days, 
tlien pour over it the following mixture when 
it is cold ; half a pound of bay salt, half an 
ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of 
coarse brown sugar, one handfiil of common 
salt, and a. penny-worth of cochineal, boiled 
in a pint of strong beer or porter; let it lie 
in the pickle a fortnight, turning it daily, 
then hang it to smoke for a we^. When 
to be dreiraed, put it into lukewarm water to 
soak for a night, and in dressing it, follow 
the directions given for boiling hams, 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS PICKLED. 

Wash die feet and ears very clean, and be- 
tween every foot put a bay-teaf ; when they 
are well soaked, add some cloves, maoe, oo- 
riander-seed, mid ginger; put a bottle of 



PIG 



145 



PIG 



to tfavee pair of feet and ean, 
bay4eavet, a bancfa of tweet beit)s; 
let diem boU geot^ till th^ are tender, then 
lake them out of me liquor, lay them in an 
eartbea pan; wlioi cold, take off the ht, 
and etram the Uqifor ofer them. They eat 
well cold, or wanned in the jelly, thickened 
with butter rolled in ilour; or take the feet and 
ears oat of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, 
and then iacrumbeof oread^and broil them, 
or frv them la butter; lay the ears in the 
middle, and the feet round: or ragoutthem. 

PIG'S FEET AND EARS SOUSED. 
CSean theai» and boH them till they are len- 
der; then iplit the feet, and put ibem and 
the ears m nit and water. Wliea you use 
them, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in 
batter, fry them, and send them to table with 
melted butter in a boat. Tb^ may be eaten 
cold, and will keep a ooneiderable time. 

PIG'S FEET, TO STEW. Clean them 
well, and boil them till they are tender. 
Brown scnne btitto' with flour, and add it to 
a quantity of ^;ravy or water sufficient to 
atew the feet m. Season with a minced , 
onion, three sage leaves, salt, and black pep- 
per. , Cut the feet in two, add than, and 
ooveF the pan closely ; let them stew half an 
hour. A little befere serving, mix in half 
a table^poooful of lemon pickle or vio^;ar, 
and pick out the sage leaves. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (1) Parboil the liver 
and liffhts, slice and fry tliem along with thin 
bits of bacon. Garni^ with fried parsley. 

PIG'S HARSLET. (2) Wash and dry 
aome livers, sweetbread*, and some fet and 
lean pieces of pork, beating tlie latter with 
a roliing-pin to mak<- them tender ; season 
witli pepper, salt, and sa^, and a little onion 
slunedded fine; when mixed, put all into a 
cawl, and fasten it tight with a needle and 
thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. 
Or, serve in slices, with parsley, for a fry. 
Seive with a sauce of Port wine and water, 
and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into 
a dish. 

PIG'S HEAD COLLARED. Veiy 
nicely scour the head ai'.d ears; take off die 
hau' and snout, and take out the eyes and 
brain ; let it lay for one night in water ; tiien 
drain it; salt it extremely well, with aom- 
mon salt and saltpetre, ana let it lie for five 
days. Boil it sulBciently to lake out tlie 
hemes ; then lay it on a dresser, turiuiig tlie 
thick end of one side of the head toward the 
thick end of the other, to make the roll of an 
raual size; sprinkle it well with salt and 
wnite p^iper, and roll it with the ears ; and, 
if you think proper, put the pig's feet^ round 

13 



the outside, when boned, or the thm partu 
of a coople of cow-heels. Put it into a S^h, 
bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite 
tender; then pot it under a weight, and do 
not take off the covering until it is quite cold. 
If you wish it to be moi'e like brawn, salt it 
longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be 
greater, and put in also some pieces of lean 
pork, ajid thm cover it with oow-heel, to 
lodit like the horn. This may be kept eitiier 
in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled 
with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fi-y 
it, either with or without batter. 

PIG'S HEAD, TO POT. Split die 
head of a smalt pic, take out die brains, cut 
off the ears, and let it lie in cokl water for 
one day, tlien boil it till all the bones come 
out ; take off the skin, keeping it as whole 
as possible. Chop die tongue and all tlie 
meat while it is hot ; season it highly with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; place part of die 
skm at the bottom ofa potting-pan or bowl, 
Idy in tlie chopped meat, and put the rest of 
the skin over the top; press it down liard, 

{>lace a small pbte upon it, put on that a 
leavy weight, which must not be taken off 
till it be perfectly cold. Boil up part of tlie 
liquor witli some vinegar and salt, and keep 
tlie head in this pickle. It may be served 
fer breakfest or luncheon, and is eaten with 
vinegar and mustard. 

PIG'S HEAD AND FEET, SOUSED. 
Clean them extremely well and boil them ; 
take for sauce pait of the liquor, and add 
vinegar, lime or lemon juice, salt, cayenne, 
and pepper; put in, eiUier cut down or 
whole, die head and feet ; boil all logedicr 
fir an liour, and |x>ur it into a deep dish. 
It is eaten cold wiUi mustard and vinegar. 

PIG'S KIDNEYS, AND SKIRTS. 

Clean and wash tliem very nicel}', cut die 
kidneys across, and die skirts into small 
square bits; fry diem a light bi-own in beef 
dripping, bix>wn a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, widi a little flour, and add as much 
boiling water as may be lequired of gravy, 
and an onion minced small. Add tlie meat, 
a little pepper, suit, and musliroom ketehup, 
and let it stew till tender. 

PIGEONS. Pigeons should be extreme- 
ly fresh ; when so, and in good order, they 
are plump and fat at the vent, and their feet 
pliable ; but wlien diey are stale, die vent is 
open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons 
are considered preferable to the wild. 

PIGEONS WHOLE, TO BROIL. 
Clean them well, cut off the wings and neck, 
leaving skin enough at the neck to tie ; make 
a forcemeat with bread crumbs, diree or feur 



PIG 



146 



PIK 



ol the liven, chm ancfaovy, MHiie parale^ 
minoed, and a quarter of a pound of tNitter; 
■eaaon with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
bind it with the yolk of an egp hcaten up, and 
put into each pigeon a piece the size of a large 
walnut; tie tne neck and rump, rub thon 
with butler, and dust them with pepper, salt, 
and nutmeg mixed ; broil them over a slow 
fire ; to baste them, put them liqwn a plate, 
and with a feather brash them over with but- 
ter; broil them of a nice brown color; serve 
them with melted butter and parsley, or a 
thickened brown gravy. 

PIGEON FIE. Chop some parsley and 
lemon thyme, with a few mushrooms ; stew 
tliese in a little butter, into which put half a 
dozen ^oung pigeons, with pepper and nJt 
ill tlieir insicbs, and their l^ turned in; 
stew tliem for a few minutes and turn tliem ; 
when they begin to fry, put in sufficient eon^ 
»omme to cover them, in which let them stew 
till ihey are well done ; take them from tUs 
fii'e to cool ; in tlie meantime make a good 
puff paste, part of which roll out, and place 
round tlie edge of a dish ; lay tlie pigeons in 
widi tlie yolks of four eggs, boiled liard, and 
pour over them half of the liquor they were 
stewed in ; add a little pepper and salt, tlien 
kiy on tlie top paste, trimming it neatly 
I'uuud, tlie same as you would any other pie ; 
on the top form a stai* of leaves, widi a hole 
in the centre ; erg it lightly over, and put it 
to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that 
it lias' nut too much color ; when done, add 
to tlie liquor that remained from the pij;eons, 
a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and 
pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for 
u remove or side dish. 

PIGEONS WITH RICE akd Par- 
MKSAN Cheese. Pick and wash clean 
lialf a dozen nice pigeons, cut them into quar- 
ters; brown some butter with flour, add to 
it a pint of good stock, with diree grated 
onions, some pepper and salt, stew the pig- 
eons HI this till tender, take them out and 
mix in the juice of one lemon, boil and strain 
tlie sauce over the pigeons. Boil about thiiee- 
quaiters of a pounoof whole rice in a pint 
and a half of stock, with lialf a pound of mssh 
butter, some gi-ated nutmeg and salt; when 
it is tender, add two handfuls of gmted Par- 
inesan cheese. Put more than half of the 
rice equally round the dish in which tiie pig- 
eons are pkced, and cover them with what 
remains, brush it over with a well-beaten 
egg, and then strew it thickly with more 
Parmesan ; cover a flat baking-tin with sah, 
place the disAi upon this, and bake it for nearly 
three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven ; it 
should be of a fine gold color. 

F&EONS, TO ROAST. Pick, clean. 



singe, and wash them well ; tnas them with 
three feet on, and put into them some pqiper 
and salt. While roasting, baste them with 
butter. A little before serving, dust them 
with flour, and froth them with butter. 
Roost them for half an hour. Serve them 
with parsley and butter in the dish, or make 
a gravy of tne giblets, some minced parsley^ 
srasoned with pepper and salt. Thicken 
with a little flour and batter; pour it with 
the giblets into the dish, and thai put in the 
pigeons. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (1) Cfean them nice- 
ly, truss them as for boiling, put into their in- 
side some pepper and salt ; brown in a sauce- 
pan three ounces of butter with.a table-spoon- 
ful of flour, add as much gravy or water as will 
nearly cover the pigeons, put them in with 
the livers, gizzards, and pinions, salt, and 
some minced parsley, spinach may also be 
added ; let them stew for three-quarters of 
an hour; add, a few minutes before serving, 
the yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs. 

PIGEONS, STEW. (2) Wash and clean 
six pi^pons, cut them into garters, and put 
all their giblets with them into a slewpan, a 
piece of butter, a little water, a bit of lemon- 
peel, two blades of maoe, some chopped pars- 
ley, sak, and pepper; cover the pan closely, 
and stew them till they be tender; tliicken 
the sauce with the yolk of an egg beaten up 
with three table-spoonfols of cream and a bit 
of butter dusted with flour; let them stew 
ten minutes longer before ser%'ing. 

PIKE, BAKED. Scrape the scales off 
a large pike, take out die gills, and clean it, 
without breaking the skin; stuff die fish 
with a forcemeat made of two handfuls of 
grated bread, one of fiuely-minoed suet, soiue 
cliop[)ed parsley, and a little fresh butler, 
seasoned wiUi pcppei-, salt, mace, grated 
lemon-peel and a nutmeg, pounded all togeth- 
er in a mortar, widi two whole e^. Fasten 
the tail of the pike into its mouth with a 
skewer, then dip it, first into a well-beaten 
egg, and dien into grated bread, which repeat 
twice; baste it over with butter, and bake 
it in an oven. 

If two of diem are to be served, make one 
of them of a green ookr, by mixing a quan- 
tity of finely-minced parsley with Uiegi-ated 
bread. When the nsh is of a fine brown 
color, cover it with paper until it is done* 
Serve with a Dutch sauce in a sauce-tureen. 

PIKE, BOILED. Wash clean, and 
take out the giUs ; stuff them with the folk>w<« 
ing forcemeat : equal paits of chopped oys- 
tei-s, grated bread crumljs, beef suet, or butter^ 
two anchovies, a little onion, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, mmoed parsley, sweet marjoram. 



POl 



147 



FOR 



diyme, and nvory ; an cggtobbd it. Stuff 
tbe inrides, and sew diem up; put them od 
in boilinff Ak-o&d-water, with a ghn of vin- 
egar, and let them boil hatf an hour. Sauces; 
"•^jyt^iBTf and mdted butter* They may 
also be broiled. 

PILLAU, TO MAKE. Wadh very 
clean two pounds of rioe» slew it till per- 
fectly tender with a little water, half a 
pound of butter, scMne salt, whole pepper, 
cloves and maoe, and keep the slewpan 
ckwehr covered; boil two fowls and one 
pound and a halif of bacon, put the bacon in 
the middle, and the fowls on each side, cov- 
er them all over with ibe rice, and garnish 
with hard4M>iiBd eggs and fried whole 
onions, 

PLOVERS, TO CHOOSE. Cbotm 
them by the hardo'VB of the vent, whidi 
shows that they are fot; and when new, 
they are limber4boted. In other respects, 
choooe them by the same marks as other 
fowls. There are three sorts; the gray> 
green, and bastard plover or lapwing. 

PLOVERS, TO DRESS. Graen pbv- 
ers should be dressed the same as wood- 
cocks, without drawing, and served on a 
toast. Gray plovers mould be stewed.-— 
Make a forcemeat with the yolks of two 
hard ^gs bruised, aome marrow cut fine, 
artichoke bottoms cut smaU, and sweet 
herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg: stuff the birds, and put them into a 
saucepan, with just a sufficient quantity of 
good gravy to cover them, one glass of 
white wine, and a blade of mace; covor 
them close, and let them stew verv gently 
till th^ are tender; then take up the plov- 
ers, lay them in a dish, kem them hot ; put 
a piece of butter rolled in now, to thicken 
the sauce, let it boil till smooth; squeeie 
into it a little lenMUi; skim it, aiMl pour it 
over the plovers. 

POINT DE JpUR FRITTERS. Mix 
with two handfols of flour a glass of sweet 
wine, a taUe-spoonful of brandy, and warm 
milk, sufficient to- make it into a paste ; add 
the well-beaten whites of four eggs, a little 
minced citron, candied (Nrai^e-peel or cur- 
rants; beat it well together, and drop it 
through a wide tin found, into boiling lard. 
Serve with pounded loaf sugar strew^ ovar 
them. 

POIVRADE. Put into a stewpan a 
large bunch of parsl^-leaves, some scalllcMis, 
two bay-leaves, a little tb^ne, a dopsert- 
qwonfol of fine ^vbite pepper, a glass of 
vinegar, and a small quantity of butter; set 
tbe pan on the fire, and reduce the whole 



tin nearly all gone, when add two ladlefoli 
of sapafno/e, and one of stock; reduce 
these again to the proper consistence, and 
strain it for use. 

PORK. Dairt-fsd pork is die best; 
the flesh should look white and smooth, and 
the fot be white and fine. In prqiaring a 
hog for bacon, the ribs are cut, with a verr 
little flesh on them, fixNO the side, which 
has the fore and hind leg attached to it; 
the hind 1^ is thai called a gammon of ba- 
con, but it is generally reserved for a ham. 
On each side there is a large spare rib, 
which is usually divided into two, one call- 
ed the sweet bone, the other the blade bone. 
There are also griskine, chine, or badt 
bone. 

Hog's lard is the inner &t of the bacon 



•^c 



orken are not so old as hogs; thqr 
make excellent pickled pork, but are cho- 
sen more particularly fiM* roasting. 

To roast a 1^, a small onion is minced 
topetho^ with three sage leaves, seasoned 
with pqjper and salt, and put under the 
skin at the knuckle bone; the skin is cut 
into strips nearly half an inch apart, and 
rdl)bed over with a bit of butter. If weifffa- 
ing seven or eight pounds, it will require 
nearly three hows to roast. 

A spare rib should be roasted, is basted 
with butter, and has sage leaves dried, rub- 
bed to a powder, and mixed with salt and 
pepper, spi-inkled ova* it. 

B(Hh a loin and neck are jointed, the 
skin scored in narrow stripe, and nibbed 
with butter. If weighing six or seven 
pounds, it will require rather more than two 
nours to roast. 

A griskin may be either broiled or roast- 
ed. 

A diine is stuffed here and there with 
bread crumbs, mixed with a little butter, 
and seasoned with some finely shred sage, 
parsl^, and thyme, some pepper and salt. 
The skin is cut into strips and nibbed with 
butto' ; it is then roastal, and served with 
i^le sauce, as are also the preceding 
roasts. 

A porker's head is stuffed like a sucking 
pig, sewed firmly, and hung on a string to 
roast. 

The shoulder may be roasted, but, being 
very fet, it is generally preferred pickled. 

The breast may be made into a pie, or 
broiled. 

To boil hams, they should be put on in 
wator, tbe chill taken off, and simmered for 
four or five hours, taking care not to allow 
them to boil. 

The prime season for pork is fitm No- 
vember to March. 

Take particular care it be done enough; 



POR 



148 



POK 



«lfaer meals rndsr-doiie am napfaoOTiit, bat 
pork k afaaolBteljr uneatable; toe sigbt of h 
u eooqgfa lo appal the eharpeet appetite, H 
its gravy has tne least tint oindaem* 

Be carefiii of the crackling; if this be 
not orisp, or if it be burned, yoa will be 
•eoUed. Pickled Pork, tafcin men time 
than any other meat. If yoa boy your pork 
ready salted, ask how manv di^ it has 
been in sak; if many, it wUf leontra to be 
soaked in water fcr six hoars oefore yoa 
dress it. When yoa cook it, wadi mid 
scrape it as clean as iMMsible; when deli- 
cately dressed, it is a nrorite dish with aU 
most everybody. Take care it does not 
boil fest; if it does, the knockle will break 
to pieces, before the thick part of the meett 
is warm through; a 1^ of seven poonds 
takes three boms and a half very slow shn- 
meriog. Skim your pot very carefullv, and 
when yoa take the meat oat of the boiler, 
scn^w it clean. 

A leg of nice poik, nie^ saltad, and 
nicely boiled, is as ftn a ooM relish as oold 
ham; especially if, inetead of cottkig into 
the middle wkien hot, and so letting out 
its jaices, yoo oat it at the knockle: sfieee 
broiled ave a good hmoheon, or sapper. 

ilfsm.— -Some persons who sell pm ready 
salted have a silly trick of catting the knuc- 
kle in two; we suppose that this is done to 
save their salt; but it lets all the gravy out 
of the leg; and aidesi yoa boil yoar pork 
merely for the sake of 1m pot-liquor, vmiob 
in this case receives all the goodness and 
strength of the meat, friendly reader, your 
oracle cautions yoo to buy no 1^ c^ pork 
which is slit at the knuckle. 

If pork is not done enough, nothing ie more 
diKigreeable; if too much, it not only loses 
its cobr and flavor, bat its substanoe be- 
comes soft like a jelly. 

It must never appear at taUe without pars- 
nips; tliey are an excellent vegetaUe, and 
deserve to be much more popular; or carrots, 
turnips, and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c. 

Obs. — ^Remember not to forget the mus- 
tard-pot. 

PORK, LEG, Of ei^t pounds, wiH re- 
quire about three hours: score the ekins across 
in narrow stripes (some score it in dia- 
monds), about a quarter of an inch apart; 
stuff the knuckle with saoe and onion, minced 
fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned with 
peratf, sak, and the yolk of an egg. 

Do not put it too near the fire : roba little 
sweet oil on the skin with a pa8te4)rush, or 
a ^oose-foather: this makes the cracklinff 
crisper and browner than basting it with 
dripping ; and it will be a better ooW than 
all tne art of cookery can make it in any 
other way ; and this is the best way of pre- 



venting tfie skin ftom bfisterin^, whidi in 
principally oocnneiiecl by its being pot too 
near the fins* 

PORK Spare Rib, Usaally weighs abouc 
eight or nine pounds, and wiHteke from tvro 
to three hours to roost it thorough ; notesc- 
aetly according to its wmgfat, bat the tfaiek- 
nesB of the meat upon it whieh vanes lery 
mock. Lay the Imck aid nearest to the 
ore. 

A proper bald spore nb or eunt poandv 
weight (so called beoause almost inl dtae meat 
u pared off), with a slea^ fire, wfflbe done 
in an hoar and a qnarter. There ii so little 
meat on a bald spare rib, that if yoo have a 
large, fieree fire, it wiH be burned before it 
is warm through. Joint it nioehr, and em^ 
the ribs across as yoo do ribs of lamb. 

When you put it down to roost, dust oa 
some floor, and bosle it with a Kttle butto' ; 
diT a doaen sage leaves, and rob them throwb 
a hair-sieve, ind put them into the top of a 
drsdging-box ; and about a quarter <if an hoar 
belbR the meat is done, baste it with batter; 
dost with the puHerined aage; 

Ob9s — ^M ake it a seneral rule never to 
poor gravy over any thing that in roasted; 
by so doing, the dredging, 8ic. ii washed off, 
and it eats insipid. 

Some people earvn a span rib by cuttmg 
out in slices ibe thick port at the bottom of 
the bones. When this meat is eat away^ 
the banes may be easi^ separated, and am 
esteemed very sweet pocking. 

Apple sance, mashed potatoaa, and good 
inwetM^ are indispenable. 

PORK CHEESE. Cbooee the head of 
a small pig whac^ may weirii about twelve 
pounds the qoavter. Sprimde over it and 
die tongues of foor pigs, a littleoommon salt 
and a very litde saltpetre. Let them lio 
foor days, wash them, and tie them in a clean 
cloth; boil them undl the bones will come 
easily out of the head, take off the Ain as 
whoie as possible, place a bowl in hot water 
and put m tfie head, cutting it into small 

{)ieoes. In the bottom of a rwnd tin, shaped 
ike a small dteese, lay two strns of cloth 
across each other, tiiey must be nag enough 
to fold over the top when the shape is fidl, 
place the skin roond Uie tin, and nearlv half 
ffll it widi the meat, which has been highly 
seasoned with pepper, cayenne and si^; pot 
in seme tongue cut into shoes, ^en the rest of 
the meat and the remainder of the tongue, 
draw the cloth tightly across the t(^ ; put on 
it a board or a p^^ that will fit into the shape, 
and place on it a heavy wei^t, which mnat 
not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is 
eaten with vinegar and mustard, and served 
for lancbeoo or eopper. 



fOT 



149 



POt 



POTATOES. The vegetable kingdom 
ftmMrds no food niMV wholeeoine, more euily 
proc u red, easily prepared, or leas expensive, 
tban the potato : yet, akhoqgh thin most useful 
vegetable is dressed almost every day, in 
almost every fiunily, for <Mie plate of potfitoes 
that comes to table as it should come, ten are 
spoiled. 

Wash Uwm, but do not pare or cot them, 
miless they are very large. Fill a saucepan 
half foil of potatoes of equal size (or make 
them so by dividing the hujger ones), put to 
them as much cold water as will cover them 
about an inch: 'they are sooner boiled, and 
more savory, than when drowned in water. 
Most boiled things aie spoiled by having too 
little water, but potatoes are often spoiled by 
too much : they must merely be covered, and 
a little allowed for waste in boiling, so that 
they may be just covered at the finuh. 

Set them on a moderate fire till they boil ; 
then take them oflf, and put them by the side 
of the fire to simmer slowly till thc^ are soft 
enough to admit a fork (place no dependence 
on the usual lest of their skins' cracking, 
which, if they are boiled fost, will happen to 
some potatoes when they are not half done, and 
the imides quite hard). Then pour the wa- 
ter off (if you let the potatoes remain in the 
water a moment after they are done enough, 
tiiey will become waxy aiiid watery), imoover 
the saucepan, and set it at such a distance 
from the fire as will secure it from burning; 
their superfluous moisture will evaporate, and 
the potatoes will be perfectly dry and mealy. 

You may afterward place a napkin, folded 
up to the siie of the saucepan's diam^er, 
over the potatoes, to keep them hot and 
mealy till wanted. 

This method of managing potatoes is in 
every respect eoual to steammg them ; and 
diey are dressed in half the time. 

There is such an infinite variety of sorts 
and sizes of potatoes, timt it is impossible to 
say how long they will takedoinc: the best 
way is to try them with a fork. Moderate- 
sized potatoes will generally be done enough 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

POTATOES, NEW. The best way to 
clean new potatoes b to rub them with a 
coarse cloth or flannel, or scrubbing-brush. 

New potatoes are poor, watery, and insip- 
id, till tney are foil two inches ra diameto*: 
they are not worth the trouble of boiling be- 
fore midsummer day. 

Ob$. Some cooks prepare sauces to pour 
over potatoes, made widi butter, salt, and 
pepper, or gravy, or melted butter and ketch- 
up; or stew the potatoes in ale, or water 
seasoned with pepper and salt ; or bake them 
with herrings or sprats, mixed with layers 
of potatoes, seasoned with pepper, salt, sweet 
herlis, vinegar, and water ; or cut mutton or 

13* 



beef into slices, and ky them in a aiewpMi» 
and on them potatoes and spioes, then aaock- 
er layer of the meat ahematety, pouring ia 
a little water, covering it up very close, and 
boiling it slowly. 

POTATO BALLd. Mhc mashed pota- 
toes with the yolk of an egg; roll them into 
balls; floor them, or egg and bread-cmmb 
them ; and fty them in dean drippings, or 
brown them in a Dutch oven. 

POTATO BALLS RAGOUT, Are 
made by adding to a pound of potatoes a 
quarter of ,a pound of grated ham, or some 
sWeet herbs, or chopped parsley, an onion or 
eschalot, salt, pepper, and a little grated 
nutmeg, or other spice, with the yoUc of a 
co«iple of ^gs : they ore then to be dressed 
as Potato Balb. 

Ofrs. An agreeable v^etaUe reliqh, and 
a good supper«4lish. 

POTATOES BOILED, TO BROIL. 
After boiling potatoes not quite sufficiently to 
send to table, put them on a gridiron over a 
clear fire, and turn them frequently till they are 
of a nice brown color all over ; serve them 
hot ; take care they do not become too hard, 
as that spoils the flavor. 

POTATOES, CASSEROLE. Boil and 
peel some ^ood mealy potatoes, pound them, 
and mix with them some butler, cream, and 
a little salt, put them about an inch and a 
half hiffh upon a flnt dish, and leave an open- 
in? in me centre ; bake them of a light brown 
colur, and take out as much from the centre 
as will admit of a ra^t, f 'icassee, or mac- 
aroni, being put into it. 

POTATOES, CJOLCANNON. Boil 
potatoes and greens, or spinage, separately ; 
mash the potatoes; squeeze Uie greens diy ; 
chop them quite fine and mix them with the 
potatoes, with, a little butter, pepper, and 
salt; put it into a motiM, buttering it well 
first; let it stand in a liol oven for ten min- 
utes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. When 
boiled and peeled, albw four large mealy 
potatoes, half their weight of butter and or 
pounded loaf susar, two ^gs beaten, half 
the grated peel of a lemon, and a little salt; 
pound die potetoes in a morter with the 
other ingreaiento; beat the yOlks of four 
eggs; roll up the croquettes; dip than into 
the beaten eggs, and roll them in sifted bread 
crumbs ; in an hour, roll them again as be- 
fore, and firy them in butter ; put them upon 
the back or a sieve before the fire to dram. 

POTATO EGGS. Mash perfectly 



POT 



ISO 



pot 



aoMKith «U or wvan boiled potatioait >dd a 
piaoe of butter the siae of a wakiut, the bea- 
ten yolk of an e^, half aa ook>n poimded, 
a Uttle boiled minoed paraley, eome pepper 
and salt; make it into the form of «maU 
eggs or pears, roll them into a well-beaten 
«» and then into grated bread aeaaooed, 
with pepper and salt ; fry them ia pleDty of 
Jard or dripping till thqr are of a fine brown 
color, lay tnon before the fire to drain; 
nerve tbrai with a fringe of fried parsley. 

POTATOES FRIED IN SLICES 
OR RIBBONS. Peel large potatoes; slice 
them about a quarter c^ an inch tliick, or 
cut them in shavings roaud and round, as 
you would peel a lemon ; drr than well in a 
clean doth, and fry them in lard or dripping. 
Take care that your iat and frying-pan are 
quite clean ; put it on a quick fire, watcli it, 
and as soon as the lard boils, and ia still, 
put in the slices of potato, and keqs moving 
them till they are crisp. Take them up, 
and lay than to dmin on a sieve : send diem 
up with a very littfe salt s|»-inkled over than. 

POTATOES FRIED WHOLE. When 
nearly boiled enouffh, put tliem into a stew- 
pan with a bit of nutter, or some nice clean 
oeef-drippinss; shake them about often (for 
fear of burning them), till tliey are brown 
and crisp; drain them fix>m the fiit. Ob», — 
It will be an ele^^t improvement previous 
to frying or broiling the potatoes, to fiour 
them and dip them iu the yolk of an egg, 
and then roll them in fine-sifted bi^ead- 
crumbs ; they will then deserve to be called 

P0TAT0X8 FULL DRSSSED. 

POTATOES RAW OR COLD, TO 
FRY. Wasli, peel, and put tbeni into cold 
water for one or two hours, cut them into 
dices about half an inch thick, and fry them 
a liffht brown in boiling clarified heel suet. 
Cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices, may be 
done in the same manner. 

POTATO FRITTERS. Peel, and 
pound in a mortar, six mealy potatoes, with 
a little salt, a fflass of woite wine, some 
pounded sugar, cinnamon, and an oimce of 
Dutter; roll it out with a little flour, cut 
Ifaem the size a€ a wine glass, and Scy them 
in boiling clarified dripping. Serve them 
with sifted loaf sugar over them. 

Pa;.ATOES, MASHED. (1) When 
your potatoes are thoroughly boiled, drain 
lhemt|uite dry, pick out every speck, &c* and 
while hot, ruu them througli a colander into 
a dean stewpan. To a pound of potatoes 
put about half an ounce of butter, aad a ta- 
ble-spoonfiil of milk: do not make them too 
mix them wfU together. Ob$. — 



When the potatoes are getting oU and 
specky, aad in fi-osty weather, this is the 
best way of dressing them. You may put 
them into shapes or small tea-cups; egg 
them with yolk of egg, and brown them very 
slightly be&te a dow fire. 

POTATOES, MASHED. (2) Boil the 
potatoes, peel and mash them verywnnoothly; 
put for a ku^ dish four ounces of butter, 
two ^gs beat up in half a pint of good milk, 
and some salt; mix th^ well together, 
heap it upon a dish with a table-spoon to 
give it a rough and rocky appearance, or 
put it on a di«i and score it with a knife, 
dip a brush or feather into melted butter, 
and brush over the top lightly ; put it into 
a Dutch oven, and let it brown gradually 
for an hour or more* To vosuAi potatoes in 
a plain way, mix with them two ounces of 
butter, half a pint of milk, and a little salt. 
When mashed potatoes are not browned, it 
is a great improvement to add pepper, salt, 
and one onion minoed as finely as possible; 
heat tlie potatoes in a saucepan, and serve 
them hot. 

POTATOES, ROASTED. Wash and 
dry your potatoes, (all of a size), and put 
them in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese-toaster: 
take care not to put them too near the fire, 
or they will get burned on the outside before 
they are wanned through. Lai^ge potatoes 
will require two hours to roast them. 
N. B. To save time and trouUe, some 
cooks half boil them first. This is one of 
the best opportunities the baker has to 
rival tlie cook. 

POTATOES ROASTED UNDER 
M EAT. Half boil large potatoes, drain the 
water from them, and put them into an earth- 
en dish, or small tin pan, under meat that is 
roasting, and baste them with some of tlie 
dripping: when they are browned on one 
side, turn them and brown the other; send 
them up round the meat, or in a small dish. 

POTATOES SCALLOPED. Mash po- 
tatoes as directed, then butter some nice 
dean scollop-shells, patty-pans, or tea-cu|::a 
or saucers; put in your potatoes; make 
them smooth at the top; cross a knife over 
them; strew a few one bread-crumbs <ni 
them: sprinkle them with a paste-brush 
with a few drops of melted butter, and then 
set them in a Dutch oven ; wlien they are 
browned on the top, take tliem carefiiUy out 
of the shells, and brown the o^ier side. 

POTATO SNOW. The potatoes must 
be firee from spots, and the whitest you can 
pick out ; put tbem on in cold water; when 
th^ begin to crack, strain the water firom 



POT 



16t 



POO 



Aem, aad pst tfwu into a efem fltowpan by 
the side of the fire till they «re qaite dry, 
and iail to pieeee; rab then thraiigb a wire 
sieve on the dieh they are to be eeat ap io, 
and do not dietorb then anerwara* 

POT POURRI. Gather, when pedeot^ 
iy dry, a peck of roeee ; ipkk. off Ae leaves, 
and strew over theai three-qaartera of a 
pound of oontmon salt; let them remain 
t#o or ^ree days, and if any fresh 6owera 
Bre added, some more salt shoold be sprin- 
kled over them. Mix with the roses half a 
ponnd of fineiy-pooaded bay salt, the same 
quantity of alnpice, of Cloves, and of brown 
sugar, a quarter of a pound of gum-benja- 
mm, and tvto onnces (tf <Nnris-root; add a 
glass of brandy, and any sort of fragrant 
nower, sucli as orange and lemon Hewers, 
rosemary, and a great quantity of lavender 
fiowers— -also white lilies: a green orange 
stuck with cloves may be adffed. All the 
flowers must be gathered perfectly dry. 

POTTING BEEF, VEAL, GAME, or 
POULTRY. Take three pounds of k»n 
gravy beef, nib it well with an ounce of 
saltpetre, and then a handfol of common 
salt ; let it lie in sak for a couple of days, 
rubbing it well each day; then pot it into 
an earthen pan or stone jar that will just 
hold it; cover it with the skin and fat that 
you cut off, and pour in half a pint of wa- 
ter ; cover it doeie with paste, and set it in 
a very slow oven for about four iKnsns. 

When it comes fix)m the oven, drain tlie 
gravy from it into a basin ; pick out the gris- 
tles and the skins; mince it fine; moisten it 
with a little of the gravy you poured from 
the meat, which is a very strong consomme 
(but rather salt), and it will make excellent 
pease soup, or browning; pound die meat 
patiently and thoroughly in a mortar with 
some fi'esh butter, till it is a fine paste (to 
make potted meat smooth there is nothing 
equal to plenty of elbow-grease) ; seasoning 
it by deCTees, as you aie beating it, wjm 
a little black pepper and allspice, or cbves 
pounded, or mace, or grated nutmeg. 

Put it in pots, press it down as close as 
possible, and cover it a quarter of an inch 
thick widi clarified butter ; and if vou wish 
to preserve it a long time, over that tie a 
bladder. Keep it in a dry place. 

You may mince a little ham or bacon, or 
an anchovy, sweet or savory herbs, or an 
eschalot, and a little tarragon, cliervil, or 
bm*net, &c., and pound diem with tlie meat, 
witfi a glass of wine, or some mustard, or 
fcMTceaieat. 

It is a very agreeable and economical 
way of using the remains of game or poul- 
try, or a large joint of eitaer roasted or 
boiled beef, v^, ham, or tongue, &c. to 



rninea it widi soma of tha Ait, or 
it with a little hotter, and beat k ina 
tar with the seasoniBg, kc. 

Meat that has been boiled 4owb hr 
gravies, ftc* (which hu bsratolbrB beMi 
ooosidoed the perquisite oi the eat) and h 
completely drained of all its saeculence, ImmI 
in a mortar with sak and a tittle groond 
blade pq>per and allspice, as di fo e ted in 
the foregoing receipt, luid it wifi laake aa 
good potted beef as meat that has been 
baked till its moistore is entirely eKtraottfd, 
v^ich it must be, or it will not keep two 
days. 

MXM . — ^Meat that has not been previous- 
ly salted, will not keep so long as that 
which haiB. 

POULTRY, in choosiiuf a turkey, the 
young cock bird is to be preferred ; the best 
have black legs, and if young, the toes and 
bill are pliabhs and feel soft. A hen turkey 
is chosen by the same roles. 

Fowls with black legs are the best; if 
fi^esh, the \«ent is close and dark ; if young, 
the combs are briglit in the color, and tlie 
legs smooth — the spurs of a yomig cock are 
shcHTt. 

A goose, if young and fine, is phimp in 
the breast, tlie &t white and soft, the feet 
yellow, and but few hairs upon them. 

Ducks may be chosen by the same rules, 
and are hard and thick on the Iweast and 
belly. 

Pigeons should be quite fi^esh, the breast 
plump and iat, the feet elastic, and neitlier 
flabby nor discolored at die vent. 

To prepare a turkey for dressing, every 
plug is carefully picked out ; and in drawing 
turkeys and fowls, care must be taken not 
to break die gall bag, nor the gut which 
joins the gizzard, as it is impossible to re- 
move the bitterness of tlie one, or the gritti- 
ness of the other. Tlie hairs are singed off 
with white paper; the leg-bone is oroken 
close to the foot, and tlie sinews drawn ooi 
— ^ cloth is then put over the breast, and 
the bone flattened with a rolling-pin, tlie 
liver and gizzard, made (blicately clean, are 
festened into each pinion. A stuffing made 
with sausage meat, adding some grated 
bi-ead, and mixing it with the beaten yolks 
of two eggs, or a stuffing as for a fillet of 
veal, is then put into die breast, suid the 
turkey, well rubbed over wiUi flcnir, is {Mit 
down to roast. It is basted constantly widi 
butter, and when the steam draws towards 
the fire, it is nearly done; — ^it is then dredg- 
ed with flour, and basted with more batter, 
served with gravy in the dish, and gamiriied 
with sausages, or with forcemeat balls if 
veal stuffing is used, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tween. 

To boil a ttarkey. After being aieely 



FOO 



153 



PRESERVES 



ekaaad, it m tnand with the legi drawn in 
rndBT the ikin, itnfied with a foroemeat, aa 
fcr veal, adding a few chopped oyMen; 
than boiM in a well-floored cloth, and eenr- 
•d with oyiter, white or celery eauoe, poured 
over it, and aJeo aome in a eauoe tureeo. 
Boiled ham, tongue, or pickled pork, ii eat- 
en with it. A krge-eiied tnrkcrr will require 
more than two hours to boil. Turkey, with 
celery eauce, is etuflbd and truBsed neatly, 
laid all over with slioee of bacon, tied in a 
cloth, and boiled in water, with a little salt, 
butter, and kmon-puice added. It is served 
thickly covered with celery sauce. 

Turkey poults are stuffed and rurjsted in 
the same manner as a full-grown turkey. 
They will require rather more than an hour 
to roast. They are dressed with the heads 
twisted under the wing, as are also turkeys 
sometimes, but it seems an injudicious cus- 
tom, as the side on which the liead is cannot 
he nicely browned, and in carving, tlie blood 
from the neck is apt to mingle with tlie 
gravv. 

To rooMl a fowl. It is picked, nicely 
cleaned, and singed; the neck is cut on 
cloee by the back ; the fowl is tlien washed, 
and if a large one, stnfl^ with forcemeat 
It is tnased and dredged with flour ; and 
when put down to roast, basted well with 
butter, and frothed up. When the steam is 
observed to draw towards the fire, it is 
sufficiently done ; served with gravy in die 
diiih, and bread sauce in a butter tureen. 
A good-sixed fowl will require above an hour 
to roast. 

Chickens are roasted as tlie above, and 
served with gravy in the dish, which is 
garnished with fried eggs, and Inread rauoe 
in a sauce tureen ; tliey will require from 
half an hour to tliree-quarters to roast. 

To boil a fowl. When nicely singed, 
vi'ashed, and trussed, it is well dredged with 
floor, and put on in boiling water, and if a 
large one, boiled nearlv an hour. It is 
served with parsley and butter, white, or 
liver sauce. 

Two boiled fowls, served with a tongue 
between diem, make a handsome top dish. 

Boiled chickens are im|»x)ved by being 
stuffed, and will require nearly half an hour 
to boil. 

7b rotut a goose. After being well 
cleaned, picked, and singed, it is washed, 
made perfectly dry, and stuflRed with about 
four tafaAe-spoonfuls of grated bread, an on- 
ion finely minced, together with three sage- 
leaves, seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
mixed with a well-beaten egg; or, the 
stuffing is made of boiled masned potatoes, 
seasoMd in the same way as the odier, and 
mixed with a beaten egg. If roasted on a 
spit, each end is tiod un tightly ; it is basted 
at first with a little bit of buttei , after which 



the fiu that drops fimn it is used. It u 
served with gravy in the dish^ and ^iple 
sauce in a sauce tureen. A large goose wiU 
require an hour and a half to roaeL At ta- 
Ue, an opening is cut in the apron, and a 
glass of Port wine, with which is mixed a 
L^lea-spooiifiildrmademuatai^, is poor, 
ed mto the body of the goose. This is also 
an inqxpovement to ducks. 

A jjreen goose, about two or three months 
old, IS seasmed with pepper and salt only, 
and requires to be basted with butter. It 
requires about an hour to roast. 

To ro€ut duekt, Thev are nicely picked, 
cleaned, singed, and washed, seasoned with 
pepper and salt; or stufied, and served with 
gravy, as directed in pp. 66, G7. A duck 
may be boiled for nearly an hour, and Served 
with onion sauce poured over it. 

PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS. &c. 

All sweetmeats should be preserved in a 
brass pan, which must be well scoured with 
sand and vinesar, washed with hot water, 
and wiped perfectly dry before it is used. 

An iron plate or stove is preferable to a 
fire fur preserving on; and by boilinff the 
fruit quickly, the form, eoioTf and mvor, 
will be better preserved, and there will be 
less waste than in slow boiling. A round 
wooden stick, smaller at one end than at 
tlie other, in Scotland called a thevil, is 
better adapted for stirring su||ar or preserves 
widi than a silvo* spoon, which last is only 
need for skimming. That there may be no 
waste^in taking off tlie scum, it is not ihrou^ 
a fine silk sieve, or tliroogh a hair sieve, 
with a bit of muslin laid into it; the clear 
part will run into the vessel placed below, 
and may be returned to the preserving- 
pan. 

A silver soup ladle is used for putting pre- 
serves into the jars, which should be of 
brown stone, or o( white wedgewood ware. 
Afler the jellies or preserves are put in, they 
must not be moved till quite cold, when they 
are covo^ with a piece of white paper, cut 
so as to fit into the jar, and dipped into brandy 
or rum. Tliey are dien stored in a cool dry 
place, and should be looked at occasionally. 
If in a few weeks they be observed to fer- 
ment, the sirup should be first strained from 
the fruit, tlien boiled till it is thick, and 
again poured over the fruit, previously pot 
into clean jars. , 

Sugar, low in pi*ioe, and consequently 
coarse in quality, is far from being cheapest 
in the end ; while that which is most refin- 
ed is always tlie best. White sugars shoold 
be chosen as shining and as cloee in texture 
as possible. 

The best sort of brown sugar has a bright 
and gravelly appearance. 

A jelly-bfig is made of half a sooare of 



FR^SERTKS 



153 



PRESERTXS 



BasmA IbUed hf Htm eonera, and one nde 
aewed up; tlie top bomd with tape, and 
lour loops also of tape sewed <m, so as to 
henag upon a Maad made of four bars cMT 
wood, eaeh thirl^ix imchm in heigbt, fiist- 
sned with fear bars at the top, eadi meaa* 
oring (en inches, with hoeks opon the cor* 
uers. Twelve in^es from llie beCtom Ibor 
more bars are pboed. A pan or basin is 
pot ondomeath to receive the juice or jelfy 
as it drt^ through the bag. 

To wt€ Bmgat <n iVsssreiMg Cllsr- 
rses, Qreen Gaget, Z^omsom, Gurronte, 
and RatpberrieM, Gather the frait iiedbctly 
dry, and to a pocmd aBow fiveoonoes of finely- 
pounded loaf sugar ; pat a layer of fruit into a 
wide-mouthed bottle or jar, and then one of 
mgar, tiH the vessel is Ml; tie over it t^t^ 
two folds of sound bladder, and put them into 
a copper cm: pan, with straw in the bottom, 
and water as high as the neoks, and let them 
simmer lor (hrM hours. When the water 
cools, take out the bottles, and keqi them 
hi a cod dry place. 

FRUIT, WITHOUT 

SUGAR. Take ds^msons when not too 
ripe ; pkk off ihe stalks, and pat diem into 
wide-moothed glass bottles, tsiking care not 
to put in any but what are whole, and with* 
out biemisb ; shake them weB down (other- 
wise the bottles will not be half iuR when 
done) ; stop the bottles with new soft corks, 
not too tiCTt; set them into a veryslow oven 
(nearly cold) four or five hours ; the skvwer 
diey are done the better; when dtev beffin 
to shrink in the bottles, it is a sure sign that 
the fruit is thoroughly wamn: take them 
out, and before they are cold, drive in the 
corks quite tight ; set the»n in a bnttle-rack or 
basket, with the month downwards, and ^Mey 
will keep good several years. 

Green gooseberries, m«rello dierries, cur- 
rants, green gages, or bullaoe, may be done 
the same way. 

06«.---If the corks are good, and fit well, 
there will be no occasioirfiMr cementing 
them ; but should bungs be used, it will be 
necessary. 



APPLES. (1) Pare, core, 

and quarter six pounds of good hard bak- 
ing apples ; finely pound four pounds of loaf 
sugar ; put a hyer of each alternately, with 
half a pound at the best white ginger, into a 
jar; let it remain eigfat-and-forty hours ; infiise, 
for half that time, in a little boiling water, 
half a quarter of a pound of bruised white 
ginger; strain and boil the liquor with the 
appKS till they look clear, and the sircq;) rich 
and thick, which may be in about an hour. 
Take off the scum as it rises. When to be 
eaten, pick out the whole ginger. 



FRESERVED APPLES. (2) Waigfc 
equal quantities of good brown sogar and ot 
apples; peei,ooie, and mince diem smaU. Bofl 
^ ">8|U', aUowii^ to every three pounds a 
pint of water ; skim it well, and boil it ptdty 
d>iek; then add die apples, die gniled ped 
of one or two lemons, and two or tbfoa 
pieces of white ginger; boil tiU the apphs 
fall, and kx>k clear and yellow. This pre- 
serve wiU keepfisr years. 



APPLES, GREEN GOD* 



LINGS. Giather the codlings when not 
bimr than French walnuts widi the staUts 
and a leaf or two on each. Put a handfiil of 
vine leaves into a preserving-pan, then a layer 
of eodlii^, then vine feaves, and then cod- 
lings andvine leaves alternately, until it is 
foil, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed 
on the top, and fill the pan wfth spring wa- 
ter; cover it ckise to keep in the steam, and 
set it on a slow fire till the apples become 
soft. Take them out, and pare off the 
rinds with a penknife, and then put them 
into the same water again with the vine 
leaves, bat taking care that the water is 
become quite cold, or it will cause them 
to crack; put in a little ahna and set 
them ov^ a slow fire tiH they are green, 
when, take them oat and by them on a 
sieve to drain. Make a good sirup and 

Sive them a gentle boil three soecessive 
ays; then put diem in small jars with 
brandy paper over them, and tie them 
down tight. 



APPLES, Golden Pippihs. 



Take the rind of an orange and boil it very 
tender; by it in cold water for three days; 
take two oozen goldra pippins, pare, core, 
and quarter them, and boil them to a strong 
jelly, and run it throogii a jelly-bau^ till it w 
clear; take the same quantity of pippins, 
pare and core them, and put thi-ee pounds 
of Ipaf sugar in a pres«*ving-pan witli a 
pint and a hatf of spring water; let it boil ; 
skim it well and put in your pippins, witli 
the oranse rind cut into long thin slips; 
then let them boil feat till the sugar becomes 
thick and will almost candy; then put in a 
pint and half of pippin jelly, and boil fost 
till tlie jelly is clear; then squeeze in the 
juice of a fine lemcHi ; give the whole an- 
other boil, and put the pippins in pots or 
glasses with the orange-peel. 

Lemon-peel may be used instead of or- 
ange, hot then it must only be boiled, and 
not soaked. 



-, APRICXyrS. Pare your ap- 



ricots, and stone what you can whole, then 
^ve them a light boiling in water propor- 
tioned to the quantity of fiiiit, only just 
enough; then take the we%ht <xr the apriooto 



PRESERVES 



154 



PRESERVES 



IB iogur, and take the liquor in whidi tlwY 
l»Te boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till 
it oomea to a Binip, and gbre tliem a lig^t 
bcMlii^, taking off the Mom aa it rises. 
When the sirup jellies it is enough ; tb^ 
take up the apricots and ooTer them with 
the jelhr ; pot cut paper over them, and lay 
Cbem down when cold. 



BLACKCURRANTS. Gather 

the c w i aiUs upmi a dry day; to every 
pound allow faalf a pint of red currant 
juice, and a pound and a half of fioely- 
pounded loaf sugar. With scissors clip off 
the heads and stalks ; pat the juice, sugar, 
and currants into a preserving pan ; shake 
it frequently till it boils; caremlly remove 
the fruit fr«Mn the sides of the pan, and take 
off the scum as it rises; let it boil fix ten or 
fifteen minutes. This preserve may be eat- 
en with cream, and made into tarts. 



— ^ CHERRIES. To a pound of 

dierries allow three-quarters of a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar ; carefully stone them, 
ana as they are done, strew part of the su- 
gar over them; boil them fast, with the re- 
mainder of the sugar, till the fruit is clear 
and the sirup thick; take off the scum as it 
rises. O^ they may be boiled t&k minutes 
in an eqoal quantity of sugar, which has 
been previous^ clarified and boiled candy 
high. Fart of the kernels may be added. 



CUCUMBERS. Take large 



and firesh-gathered cucumbers; leplit than 
down and take out all the seeds; lay them 
in salt and water that will hear an efXt 
three days; set than on a fire with cokl 
water, and a small lump of alum, and boil 
them a few minutes, or till trader; drain 
them, and pour on them a thin sirup; let 
them lie two days; boil the sirup again, and 
put it over the cucumbers; repeat it twice 
more; then have ready some veA clarified 
sugar, boiled to a blow ; put in the cucumbos, 
simmer it five minutes; set it by tiU next 
day; boil the sirup and cucumwrs again, 
and set them in glaeses for use. 

CUCUMBERS, SMALL. 



Weigh eqoal proportions of small green cu- 
cumbers and of fine loaf sugar, chrify it; 
rub the cucumbers with a cloth, scald them 
in hot water, and, when cold, put them into 
the sirup, with some white ginger and the 
peel of a lemon ; boil them gently for ten 
minutes. The following day just let them 
boil, and repeat this thi'ee times, and the 
last, boil them till tender and clear. 



DAMSONS. (1) To every pound 



nately a layer of damsons, and one of sqgar; 
tie mem over with bladder or stronff paper 
and put them into an oven after the bread is 
withdrawn, and let them ranain till the oven 
is cold. The following day strain off the 
sirup, and boil it till thick. When cold, 
pot the damsons one by one into small jan, 
and pour over them the sirup, which mart 
cover them. Tie them over with wet 
bladder. 



DAMSONS. (2) Prick them 

vrith a needle, and boil them vrith sugar 
the same proportion as in die receipt to 
preserve damsons, till the sinxp will jelly. 
Carefidly take off all the scum. 

GREEN GAGES. Pot the 



plums into boiling water, pare off the skin, 
and diride them; take an equal qpianti^ of 
pounded loaf sugar, strew half of it over the 
firuit; let it remain some hours, and, with 
the remainder of the sittar, put it into a 
preserving pan; boil tm the plums look 
quite cleu*, take off the scum as it rises, 
and a few minutes befiMre taking them off 
the fire, add the kernels. 



of damsons allow three-quarters of a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar; put into jars alter- 



LARGE SWEET GREEN 

GoosEBiRRiKS. (1) Weigh equal pro- 
portions of sugar and of fitut ; wim a pen- 
knife slit the gooseberries on one side, and 
take oat all the seeds; put them into a pre- 
serving pan with cold water, scald max; 
pour off the water when cold; put over and 
under them vine leaves, with more cold water ; 
set them over the fire to green. Clariiythesu- 
gar; putthe^ooedberriesintoadeepjar,and 
pour the boiling sirup over them; in two 
days pour it off, boil, and put it over the 
fruit ; repeat this till the sirup becomes thick, 
then pot them into small jars. 



LARGE SWEET GREEN 

Gooseberries. (2) (rather the largest- 
sized gooseberries, and allow an equal quan- 
tity ofpounded loaf sugar ; cut the gooeefaer- 
ries in half, and take out the seeds ; wet die 
sugar with a litde water, and put aU together 
into a preserving pan; carefulW stir and 
scum them, and boil them till toe sirup is 
clear and dbe finit soft. 



GOOSEBERRIES. The tops 



and tails being removed fixnn the gooseber- 
ries, allow an equal quandty of finely-pounded 
loaf ragar, and pot a layer of each alternate- 
ly into a lai^ deep jar ; pour into it as much 
dripped currant juice, either red or white, as 
will dissolve the sugar, adding its weight in 
sugar; the following day pot all into a pre- 
serving pan and boil it. 



GREEN PEAS. Put into a 



PUDDINGS 



155 



PUDDINGS 



winriyn of bofling wator freeh gatbowd 
and radi-ibeUed paw, but not very yoong; 
as soon aa they boil up, poor off the water, 
and put them upon a large dry cloth folded, 
and then upon another, that they may be 
porfectfy dry widiOQt behig bnueed; let 
diem lie some thne before the fire, and then 
pot than into amall paper bagi, each con* 
taining about a pint, and hang them up in 
die kitdien. Bdbre wing, soak diem for 
two or three hoars in wmer, and then boil 
them as directed for green peas, adding a 
little bit of butter, when they are put on to 
boiL 

PRESERVED JARGONELLE PEARf?. 
Gather pears with stalks bdbre they are 
quite ripe; allow equal quantities of fine 
loaf sugar and of fruit. Pare the pears as 
thinly as possible, keeping <ni the stalks; 
carefiilly cut out the black top; as they are 
peeled put them into cold water. Put cab- 
Dage l^ives into the bottom of a presoring- 
pan ; lay in the pears, covo* them wiui 
cold water and one or two cabbage leaves 
upon the top; boil them thirty minutes, and 
lay them upon a dish. To six pounds of 
sttsar, allow a pound (^ water, boil and 
skun It; then add om$ ounce of white gin- 
ger, previously soaked in hot water, and 
scraped clean, add the juice and thinly par- 
ed rinds of two lemons. Boil the sirup ten 
minutes, put in the pears, and let them boil 
twmity minutes; take diem out, put diem 
into a bowl or deep dish, boil the sirup 
eight minutes, and when cold pour it over 
the pears; cover them with paper; in four 
days pour off the sirup, boil it eight minutes, 
ana pour it ov^ the pears when cold. In 
four days repeat this process, and do it a 
third time ; tiien stick a clove in eacJi pear, 
wha'e the black top was cut out. Put them 
into jars, divide the ginger and lemon-peel, 
and pour on the sirup vraen cold. 



RED PEARS. Parboil a doa- 

en of pound pears in water; peel them. 
Clarify the same weight of fine loaf sugar 
that there is of pears ; add a pint of Port 
wine, the juice and rind of one lemon, with 
a little cochineal, a few cloves, and a stick 
of cinnamon; boil the pears in this till they 
become clear and red; take them out, boU 
up the sirup, strain, and put it over the 
pears. 

PUDDINGS, PIES, AND TARTS. 
Ghreat nicety is to be observed in prepar- 
ing every material used for boiled or baked 
puddings. 

The e^ require to be well beaten, for 
which purpose, if many are to be done, a 
whisk IS veed ; if tew, a three-pronged fork. 
The flour is dried and sifted. The currants 



are carefiilly cleaned, by patting dnm into 
a cullender, and pouring warm water over 
them; if very dirty, this is to be repeated 
two or three times, and after beins dried in 
a dish before the fire, they are nubed in a 
clean coarse cloth, all the stalks and stones 
pkked out, and then a little flour dredaed 
over them. The raisins are stoned wilh a 
small sharp-pointed knife ; it is cleansed in 
a basin oi water, which also receives the 
seed. The pudding cloth must be kept es- 
pecially clean, or it will impart an unpleas- 
ant taste to anything that is boiled in it; 
and when taken off a pudding, it ought im- 
mediately to be laid in cold water, and af- 
terwaids well washed with soda or pearl- 
ashes in hot water. Just before being used 
for a rice, bread, or batter pudding, it 
should be dipped into hot water, wrung, 
shaken, and well dredged with floor; ami 
for a plum, suet pudding, or any sort of 
finiit pudding in paste, k must be buttered 
before being floured. 

The water should boil quick when the 
pudding is put in; and it should be moved 
about ioe a minuie, for fear the ingredients 
should not mix. 

When the pudding u done, a pan of cold 
water should be ready, and the pudding 
dipped into it as soon as it comes out of the 
pot, which wiU prevent its adhering to the 
cloth. 

A bread pudding should be tied loose; 
if batter, it must he tied tight over, and a 
batter pudding should he strained through a 
coarse sieve when all is mixed. In otb^s, 
the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in 
a basm or pan, take care that it is always 
well buttered. 

When you make your puddings without 
eggs, they must have as little milk as will 
mix, and must boil for three or four hours. 
A few spoonfuls of small beer, or one of 
yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Your 
puddings will always be much lighter if yon 
oeat the yolks and whites of the eggs long 
and separately. You may, if you please, 
use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings 
or pancakes. Two large spoonfols will sup- 
ply the place of one esg ; tne snow may be 
taken up firom any clean spot before it is 
wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though 
the sooner it is used the better. 

AJl puddings in paste are tied tightly, but 
other puddings loosely, in the clodi. When 
a^ pudding is to be boiled in a shape, a piece 
of butter^ white paper is put upon the top 
of it, before the floured cloth is tied on. 
The pan, dish, or sh^se, in which the pud- 
ding is to be either boiled or baked, must 
always be buttered before it is filled. It is 
an improvement to puddings in gmeral to 
let them stand some time after being prepared 
either for boiling or baking. Whoa a pud* 



PUDDINGS 



16« 



PODDmOS 



dingf b to be boilad, it nwt be pot ob id a 
oofored pot, in plenty of boiling water, and 
Mfcr far a moment be aflowed to be off the 
boil vntil ready to be eerved. As the water 
waatee, more, and always boiling, mwt be 
added. A plam podding is the better ibr 
being mixed the day befere it is to be boiled. 
It nay be unfol to obserre that tbispoddinr 
will Mep for months after it is dressed, if 
the doth be allowed to Raoain upon it, and 
if, when oold, it be corend with a sheet of 
foolscap paper, and then hong up in a eool 
plaoo. When about to be used, it must be 
put into a clean cloth, and again boiled for 
ao hour ; or it may be out into slices, and 
broiled as wanted. If in breaking ^jgs a 
bad one should accidentally drop into (he 
basin amongst the rest, the whole will be 
spoiled ; and therefore they should be broken 
one hy one into a tea-cop. When (he 
whites only of eggt are recjuued fixr a jelly, 
or other things, the yoUu, if not broken, will 
keep good for three days, if the basin they 
are in be covered. 

A slab of marble, stone, or slate, is pref- 
erable to wood for rolling out paste on. 
The rolling-pin, cutters, and every other im- 
plement used in these processes, must be 
kept (larticularly clean ; they should always 
be Mrashed immediiUely afW being used, 
and then well dried. Before using butter 
for paste, it is laid for some time into cold 
water, which is chai^|ed once or twice. 
When salt butter is used, it is well worked 
in two or tliree waters. If it dbould not be 
convenient to make tho paste immediately 
before it is baked, it will not sufRer from 
standing, if made early in the morning, and 
the air excluded from it, by putting first a 
tin cover over the pie or tartlets, and 
above that a folded taole-cloth. To ascer- 
tain if the oven be of a proper heat, a little 
bit of paste may be bnkeid in it, b^re any 
thing else be put in. Puff paste reauires 
rather a brisk oven. If too hot it binds the 
surfoce and prevents the steam from rising, 
and if too slow it becomes sodden and flat. 
Raised crusts require a quick oven; puffii 
and tartlets, which are filled with preserved 
fruit, are 8i:^iendy done when the paste is 
baked. When lai^ pies have been in the 
oven for a few minutes, a paper is put over 
them to prevent their being burned. 

PUDDING. Sweeten a pint and a half 
of cveam, and boil it with the peel of a small 
l«non; cot the crumb of a twopenny roll, 
and pot it into the cream, and boil it for 
e^;ht minutes, utiirii^ constantly; M^n 
thick add a quarter of a pOand of firesh but* 
ter bealMi to a cream, a teanspoonfiil of cra- 
ted nutmee, and four well4)eaten ^gs ; beat 
it all weU together for some minutes. It 
may be baked or boded. 



APMOOT. I^ika an^and- 



thirty nice fine red apricots, onC thorn m 
hahcs, and take out the stones, and roH 
them in a pan with four ounces of powdered 



snpr. Prepare your crast, line yonr mould 
with it, put in your aprioote» and finish the 
same as in theieoeipt for Apple Pudding « 
iaDrtmeai$e. 

ALMOND, BAKEa>. Steep 

four ounces of cmmbs of brand diced 
in a pint and hutf of cream, or grate the 
bread; then beat half a pound of obncfaed 
almmids very fine, till they become a pasts, 
with two tea-spoonfuls of orange-fiowor wa- 
ter; beat up the }M>lks of eight ms, and the 
whites<tffour; mix all well togeuor; put in 
a qumrter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir 
in three or fixur ounces of melted butter; 
put it over the fire, and keep stirrmg untfl 
itisdiick; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom 
of a dish, and pour in the mgredients. To 
bake half an hour. 



ALMOND. Blanch and beat 

a pound of sweet alnxMids with a little 
rose-water, mix a pound of bread grated, 
a nutmeg, half a pound of butter, and the 

C»lk8 of six e^|s, boil a pint of cream, co- 
red with a very little saffron, add it to the 
eggs and a little fiour, knead it wdl, and 
tto put in the almonds, beating it up till 
all is mixed together. Boil it for half an 
hour in a buttened cloth. 



AMBER. Put a poimd of 



butter into a saucepan, with three-quarters 
of a pound of powdernsugar; when melted 
and well mixed tog^her, add the yolks of 
fifteen eggs beaten, and as much candied <h^ 
ange beaten to a paste as will give color and 
flavor to it. Line the dish with paste for 
turning out, and when filled with the above, 
lay a crust ov&r, as you would a pie, and 
bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten h<4 
or oold. 



APPLE. (1) Weigh one 1 



pound and three-quarters of apples, pare, 
core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh 
also ten ounces of brown sugar; make a 
suet paste, roBed thiimer towuds the edges 
than m the middle, and sufficiently large to 
lay into a two-quart basin, previously but- 
tared; put in the apple and sugar alternate- 
ly, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it 
closely over; dredge it with ioor, and tie a 
puddmg clodi over the top of a liasin ; boil 
it for three hours. A light paste nay be 
made with flour, half its quantity in buw ci 
grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk 
or water, and, instead of apples, cuxrants, 
damsons, or any other fink, may be anekw 
ed in it. 



4 

( 

1 



PDDD1N08 



157 



PDDDIN08 



APFLE. (9) Pfld and ooiv 
•kfc TMpy Imrgp *W^» "^iBw them in six ta- 
blenipoonfun of water, wkh the rind (^ a 
lemon ; when soft, beat them to a pulp, add 
aki «mp«i of aeltad finah butler, the mme 
of aaod brown eugnr, aix well-bealen e§^, 
half a wina-gtam of brandy, and a ten- 
■pooofid c€ lenMNKJuioe; line a diA with a 
prff paste, and whan baked, stick all over 
the top thin chips of candied cidron and 



APPLE. (8) Make a batter with 

two cfflPy a pint of milk, mad three or (bur 
■pooimils of flodr; pour it into a deep dith, 
aind having pared six or aight smaU apples, 
place them whole in the batter and bake it. 



APPLE, BOILED. Chop lour 

ounces of beef suet very fine, or two ounces 
o( butter, krd, or dripping ; but the suet 
makes the best and lij^htest crust ; put it 
on the paste-board, with eight ounces of 
flour, and a salt-spoonful of salt, mix it well 
together wid» vour hands, and then pot it all 
of a hei^, and make a hole in the middle ; 
break <me ^g in it, stir it well together 
with your finger, and by deg^nees infiAe as 
much water as will make it ^ a stiff paste: 
roll it out two or three times, with the roll- 
ing-pin, and then roll it large enough to re- 
ceive thirteen ounces of appfaes. It will look 
neater if boiled in a binin, well buttered, 
than when boiled in a pudding-cluth, well 
floured; boil it an hour and three-quarters: 
but the surest way is to stew the apples first 
in a Btewpan, with a wine-glassful of water, 
and llicn one hour will lx>il it. Some people 
like it flavored with cloves and lemon-peel, 
and sweeten it with two ounces of sugar. 
Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, and cher- 
ries, dani8()iis, and various plums and fruits, 
nre ina<le into puddinss with the same crust 
directed Hot apple puddings. 



APPLE, A LA FRAN- 

CAISE. To make Uie eniremeit pruper- 
Iv, it is neoefisary to have a mijuld in the 
itrin of a dome tour inches deep and six in 
diameter; this m(Nild and its lid should lie 
pierced all over, the same as a skimiuer. 
Tbore should be a riih roinid the lid of the 
dome that it may cover it so closely that al? 
air may be excluded. 

Peel six and thirty small red apples 
and cut them into quarters ; toss them in a 
stewpan with four ounces of fine sugar 
(over which miKt be grated the rind of an 
oi'ange), and four ounces of buttn* luke- 
warm; then place die stewpan' over the 
stove, with fire on the cover. When your 
apples are done, poor them into a dish. 
Whilst they are cooling mix up thrae-quar- 
lera of a pound of stiff past»; than roll out 

14 



half of it to the thickness of the eighth of ar 
inch. With this cmst line the iMide of 
vour mould, which must be previousiy wel( 
buttered. Be carefid that the paste layi 
c]uile flat, leaving a pieoe aJI raond the edge 
of the mould, tlwn put in the best quarten 
of tlie apples, and fill op the mould with the 
rest of the apples and their Ikmor, dwn roll 
out the rest of the paste verv tnin, into two. 
parts, cut in rooMB. Slightly moisleo the 
paste which you have left round the edge of 
the moukl, and phuse upon it one of the 
rounds of paste, pinching dm edges carefidly 
together, then sligh^ moisten, and phoe 
upon it your odier round piece of paste, 
pinching the edge of this with the others tv 
make it quite ckee, then cover them with 
the lid of tlie mould well butteied. 

Now, turn your mocdd over into the mid-- 
dle of a napkin, and tie up the comers of it 
ck)ee over the top of the dome, and pat it 
into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine 
wide) full of boilinff water; ana let it be 
kept constantly boihng for an hour and a 
half; when it has boiled for this time, take 
it out of the saucepan, untie die napkin, 
take out the mould, remove the lid, place 
the mouki on a dish, and thra carefiilly take 
it off from the pudding; strew fine suaar aU 
over your pudding, ami serve it quite hot. 



ARROW-ROOT. From a quart 

of new milk take a small tea-cupfiil, and 
mix it with two lai||e spoonfiils of arrow- 
root. Boil the remaiudm' of the milk, and 
stir it amonsBi the arrow-root; add, when 
nearly cold, mur well-beateii yolks of egga, 
with two ounces of pounded loaf sugar, 
and die same of fresh butter broken into 
small bits ; season with grated nutmeg. M ix 
it well tugedier, and bake it in a buttered 
dish fifteen or twenty minutes. 



AUNT MARY'S. Of bkiom 

raisins stoned, currants nicely cleaned, snet 
finely minced, bread grated, apples minced, 
and Drown sugar, a quarter of a pound bf 
each ; four well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful 
of ()ounded ginger, half a one of salt, half a 
nutmeg grated, and one elass of brandy; 
mix aO we ingredients well, and boil it in a 
ck>th for two hours. Serve with a sauce of 
melted butter, a glass of wine, and some 
sugar. 



BARLEY. Take a poomi of 

pearl barley urell ivashed, diree quarts of 
new milk, one quart of cream, and half a 
pound of double i-efined sugar, a grated nut- 
ni^, and some salt ; mix them well togedier, 
then pur them into a deep pan, and bake it ; 
dien take it out of die oven, and put into it 
six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef mar- 
row, and a quarter of a pomid of grated 



PUDDINGS 



158 



PUDDINGS 



iraad; mfac all well together, then pot it in> 
to another pan, bake it again, and it will be 
CKodlent* 

— — BATTER, BAKKD OR BOIL- 
ED. Break three cm in a basin with 
as nwdi aalt ai will lie on a tixpenoe; 
beat than well togethor, and then add fiwr 
oonoee of flour; beat it into a emooth bat- 
ter, and by degrees add half a pint of milk: 
have your sauoepan ready boiling, and but- 
ter an earthen mould weH, put uie pudding 
in, and tie it tight over with a pudding- 
eloth, and boil it one hour and a quarter. 
Or, put it in a dish that you have well but- 
tered and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 
Cnrrants washed and picked clean, or rai- 
sins stoned, are good in thifi pudding, and 
it ia then called a black cap: or, add loaf 
sugar, and a little nutmeg and ginger with- 
out the fruit, — it is very good that way; 
serve it with wine sauce. 



BATTER. Take six ounces 

of fine flour, a little salt, and tliree egss ; 
beat it well with a little milk, added 
by degrees till the batter become smooth; 
make it the thickness of cream ; put into 
a buttered pic-dish, and bake three-quarters 
of an hour: or into a buttered and floured 
basin, tied over tight with a doth: boil one 
and a half hour, or two hours. 



BATTER, WITHOUT 

EGGS. Mix six spoonfuls of flour with a 
small portion of a quart of milk ; and wlien 
smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea- 
spuonful of Malt, two tea-spoonfuls of grated 
ginger, and two of tinctiu^e of saffron ; stir 
all together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit 
may be added or not. 



BEEF-STEAK. Get rump- 
steaks, not too thick, beat them with a chop- 
per, cut them into pieces about half die size 
of your hand, and trim off* all the skin, sin- 
ews, &c. ; have ready an ouion peeled and 
chopped fine, likewise some potatoes peeled 
and cut into slices a quarter of an inch 
tliick ; rub the inside of a basin or an oval 
plain mould with butter, sheet it with paste 
as directed for boiled puddings, season the 
steaks with pqiper, salt, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; put in a layer of steak, then another 
of potatoes, and so on till it is full, occasion- 
ally throwing in part of the chopped onion ; 
add to it half a sill of mushroom ketchup, a 
table-spoonful of lemon-ptckle, and half a 
gill of water or veal brotli ; roll out a top, 
and close it well to prevent the water getting 
in ; rinse a clean cloth in hot water, sprinkle 
a little flour over it, and tie up tlie pudding; 
have ready a lai^ pol of water Ixiiliii^, 
put it in, and boil it two hours and a half; 



tajke it up, remove the cloth, turn it down- 
wards in a deep dish, and when wanted (ake 
away the basin or UMnild. 



BEEF.STEAK,BARED. 



Make a batter of milk, two ^gs, and flour, 
or, which is mudi bettn*, potatoes boiled and 
mashed throc^ a cullender; lay a little of 
it at the bottom of the dish; then put in the 
steaks, prepared as above, and very well 
seasoned; pomr the remainder of the batter 
over them, and bake it. 



— - — BISCUIT. Pour a pint 
of boiling milk ova* three' Naples biscuits 
grated; cover it close; when cold add the 

{rolks of four egm, two whiles, nutmeg, a 
ittle brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and 
some sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin. 



BOSTON APPLE. Peel one 

dozen and a half of good apples ; tak^ out 
the cores, cut them moall, put into a stewpan 
that will just hold tliem, with a little water, 
a little cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel 
of a lemon ; stew over a slow fire till quite 
sofl, then sweeten with moist sugar, and 
pags it through a hair sieve ; add to it the 
yolks of four eggs and one white, a quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nutnieg, 
tiie peel of a lemon grated, and the juice of 
one lemon: beat all well together; line the 
inside of a pie-dish with good puff paste'j 
put in tlie pudding, and bake half an hour. 



BRAiNDY. Line a mould with 

jai'-raisios stoned, or dried cherries, thetf 
lay thin slices of French roll ; next put a Iay« 
er of ratafias or macaroons, then tlie fruity 
rolls, and cakes, in succession, until the 
mould be full, pouring in at times, two 
glasses of bi-andv. Beat four eggs, yolks and 
whites separatefy, put to them a pint of milk 
or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, 
and the rind of hnlf a lemon grated. Pour 
it into the mould, and when tlie solid has 
imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, 
and boil an hour; keep the mould the right 
side upwards. 

BREAD AND BUTTER. 



Cut thin slices of bread and butter, without 
the crust, lay some in the bottom of a dish, 
then put a layer of well-cleaned currants, or 
any preserved fruit; tlien mcHie bread and 
butter, and so on till tlie dish is nearly filled ; 
mix with a quart of milk four well-beaten 
e^, three table-spoonfuls of orange-flower 
or rose water ; sweeten it well with brown 
sugar, and pour it over the bread and butter, 
and let it soak for two or three hours before 
being baked. It will take nearly an hour. 
Serve with a sauce, in -a sauce-tureen, made 
with a tea-cupful (^ currant wine, a table- 



PUDDINGS 



159 



PUDDINGS 



qiooofii] of brown nigar, diree of water, and 
a bit of butter the size of a wabmt, stirred till 
boiling hot. 



BR£AD. (1) Oit two or three 

slices of bread rather thin, and without the 
crust, put them in a dish, and pour over 
tiiem half a pint of boilinff milk ; let it stand 
tUl cold, and then maah me bread; by into 
the bottom of a puddins dish a layer of pre- 
served gooseberries, then add the bread; 
sweeten well a pint of good milk, and mix 
with it three well-beaten eggs with two ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of rose water; pour it over the 
bread, and bake it far an hour. Before 
serving, nutmeg may be ^:ated over the top. 



BREAD. (2) Make a pint of 

bread-crambs; pot them in a stewpan with 
as much milk as will cover them, the peel 
of a lenuHi, a little nutm^ grated, and a 
small piece of cinnamon; boil about ten 
minutes; sweeten with powdered loaf sugar; 
take out the cinnamon, and put in four eggs ; 
beat all well tc^lher, and bake half an lunir, 
or boil ratho* more than an hour. 



PLAIN BR£AD. Make five 

ounces of bread-crumbs ; put them in a ba- 
sin; pour three-quarters ctf'a pint of boiling 
milk over them ; put a plate over the top to 
keep in the steam ; let it stand twenty min- 
utes, then beat it up quite raoooth with two 
ounces of sugar and a saltHspoonfiil of nutmeg. 
Break four e^s on a plate, leaving out one 
white; beat them well, and add ttem to the 
pudding. Stir it all well together, and pot it 
in a mould that has been well buttered and 
floured; tie a cloth over it, and boil it one 
hour. 



BUITER-MILK. Turn two 

auarts of new milk with one of butter-milk ; 
rain off the wh^, and mix with the curd 
the grated crumb of a twopc»iny roll, the 
grated peel of a lemon, nearly a whole nut- 
meg grated, half a pint of rich cream, six 
ounces of clarified butter, and the beaten 
yolks of nine, and the whites of four eggs ; 
sweeten it well, and bake it with or without 
a pufi* paste, for three-quarters of an hour. 
It may be boiled. 



 CAMP. Put into a saucepan 

half a pint of water, a quarts of a pouna of 
butt^, a table-spoonful of Ihtuwu sugar, add 
the peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it 
just come to a boil, take it off, and stir in a 
quarter of a pound of sifted flour ; mix it 
perfectly smooth, and when cold, beat in 
four well-beaten eggs. Half fill twelve yel- 
low tea-cups, and bake tliem in a quick 
oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, 
sugar, and butter, in a sauce-tureen. 



CARROT. Pound io a mort» 

the red part of two larse boiled carrots ; add 
a slice of grated bread, or pounded biscuit, 
two ounces of melted butter, the same quan- 
titv of ■near, a table-spoonful of marma- 
lade, or a bit of KNranse-peel minced ; half a 
tea-spoonfiil of uprated nutmeg, and four weU- 
beaten eggs; mix all well together; bake it 
in a dish lined with miff paste. 

CALF*S FEET. Pick afl 



the meat off three well-boiksd calTs feet; 
chop it finely, as also half a pound of fresh 
beef su^; grate the crumb of^a penny loaf; 
cut like straws an ounce of orange-peel, and 
the same of citron ; beat well six eggs, and 
grate a small nutmeg .« nix all tliMe ingre- 
dients well tcwether, with a glass of brandy 
or rum, and boil it in a ck^ nearly three 
hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. 



CHERRY, ANGLO FRAN- 
Pick^ two pounds of fine ripe 



CAIS. 

cherries, and mix them with a quarter of a 
pound of picked red currants, (having ex- 
tracted the seeds), and six ounces of powder 
sugar. Make your, pudding as directed in 
the receipt for apple pudding, with Musca 
del raisins. You may make use of rasp- 
berries instead of currants ; or mix red or 
white currants and.raspiberries. 



CHEESE. (1) Grate one 



pound of mild cheese; beat well four egss, 
oil one ounce of butter; mix these ingredi- 
ents tcwether with one gill of cream, and 
two table-spoonfuls of grated and sifted 
b-ead, and bake it in a dish or tin lined 
with puff paste. 



CHEESE. (2) Grate a quarter 

of a pound of good cheese, put it into a saoc^ 
pan with hatf a pint of good milk, and nearly 
two ounces of crated bi^ead, and one beaten 
f^ ; stir it till tlie cheese be dissolved ; put 
it into a buttered dish, and brown it in a 
Dutch oven. Serve it quite hot. 



— CITRON. (1) Mix togeAer a 



pint of cream and the volks of six eggs ; add i 
to this four ounces of nne sugar, the same of 
citron, shred fine, two spoonfuls of flour, and 
a little nutm^ ; place this mixture in a deep 
dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. 

CITRON. (2) The yolks of three 



eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one i^ion- 
fill of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin ; 
sugar to the ta^te ; put this into large cups 
buttered; bake them in a tolerably quick 
oven ; when done, turn them out of the cups, 
and serve. 

COCOA-NUT. Quarter pound 



PUDDINGS 



160 



ruDonvGS 



Ceeaa-BOt gratsd: nine of powdered mnr; 
diree and lulf oonoet butiM*; whites of mx 
em; half tea-epoon of raie-w«ter, and half 
gSm of wioe and brandy mixed. Take the 
thin brown Ain from off the meat, and wash 
the pieoee in cold water, and wipe dry. 
Grate a quarter pound fine. Stir the butter 
'and migar to a cream, and add the liquor 
and roee-water to them. Beat the whites 
of the egg» till they stimd alone, and then 
■tir them into the butter and sugar; after- 
wards sprinkle in the grated nut, and stir 
hard all the time. Put puff paste into the 
bottom and sides of the dish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a mooerate oven 
about half an hour. Gxate loaf sugar over 
it, when cold. 

COTTAGE POTATO OR 

CAKE. Peel, boil, and mash, a couple of 
pounds of potatoes: beat them up into a 
smooth l»tter, with about three-quarters of 
a pint of milk, two ounces of moist sugar, 
and two or three beaten ms. Bake it 
about three-quarters of an l»ur. Three 
eunoes of currants or raisins may be added. 
Leave out the milk, and add three ounces of 
butter, — it will make a vvy nioe cake. 

COTTAGE. Six ounces of 



currants, half a pound of minced suet, and 
the same quantity of crated bread, half a 
grated nutmeg, a talmHspoooful of white 
wioe, or rose water; mix all well together, 
with the beaten yolks of five eggs, to a stiff 
paste, and with floured hands roll it imo 
twelve or thirteen small puddings in the form 
of sausages; iiry them gently in butter till of 
a nice brown ; roll them well in the filing*- 
pan. Serve with pounded kmf sugar strewed 
over them, and with a sweet sauce. They 
may be boiled. 

CRANBERRY. Stir into a 



quart of batter, made stifier than for batter 
pgdding, about a pint of cranberries, and 
boil as UMual. Or, make a paste as for apple 
pudding, and put in the cranberries, with 
molavses sufficient to sweeten their acidity. 
Eaten with sweet sauce. 

CURD, BOILED. Rub the 



curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, 
throuffh a sieve; then mix with it six ^gs, 
a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange- 
flower water, half a nutmeg grated, three 
spoonfuls of flour, and three spoonflils of 
bread-crumbs, half a pound of currants, and 
half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil 
for one hour, in a thick cloth well floiavd. 



CURRANT. A pound of cui^ 

rants* a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoon- 



fids of ioor, half a nntQMg,a 
ginger, a little powder sag 
salt; boil this for tftunee hours. 



sugar and a litda 



CURRANT IMIY. Chop a 

pound of suet, and aux it with a pound of 
flour, half a pound of cunants, <well warii- 
ed), a tea-spouofid of pounded gin^or, half a 
spoonful of tincture of saflroa, and a little 
salt; stir in a eofiicient quantity of water, 
to make it a proper consiBtence ; tie it in a 
buttered cloth, and boil it foraahaor; aerve 
it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. 



CUSTARD. Boil a pint of 

milk, andaquarter of apaat of goodaream; 
thicken with flour and water made perfectly 
smooth, till it is stiff enough to bear an egg 
on it; hreakinthevolks of five eggs; sweet- 
m with powdesea loaf sugar; grate in a 
little nutmeg and the peel U a iemon: add 
half a glass of jKood brandy; then whip the 
whites of the five eggs tiU quite stiff, and 
mix genthr all together: line a pie-das|i with 
good puff paste, and bake half an hour. 
N. B. — Ground rice, potato flour, panadaj 
and all puddings made from powders, are, 
or may be, prepared in the same way. 



DAMSON. Make a batter 

with thcee well-beatea eggs, a pint of milk, 
and of flour and brown sugar fimr table- 
spoonfiils each; stone a pint of damsons, 
aiid mix them with the batter ; boU it in a 
buttend basui for an iiour and a kdC 



EGG. . Melt a quarter of a 

pound of butter, and when nearly cold, mix 
well with it the following iagnedients:-— ten 
well-beaten yolks and two whites of csga, 
half a pint of rich cream, half a pound of 
good brown sngar, two table-spoonfuls of 
floiH*, a g^ted nutmeg, and a glass of bran- 
dy ; bake it with or witbout a uning of puff 
paste. 



^ FRUIT SUET. Of finely 

minced suet, flour, grated brsod, and clean- 
ed currants, a quarter of a pound each ; a 
tea-spuoafiil of pounded ginger, one of salt, 
two ounces of brown sugar, and a tea-cup* 
ful of milk ; mix all the ingredients wdl to^ 
setlier, and boil it in a clom for two hours. 
Serve with a sweet sauce. 



FAMILY. Mix with a pound 

of flour half a pound of raisins stoned and 
chopped, the same Quantity of minced suer, 
a little salt, and milk or water sufficient to 
make it into a stiff batter; boil it for five 
hours. Serx-e with melted buttor poured 
over it. Two well-beaten ^^ may bt 
added. 



PUDDINGS 



161 



PUDDINGS 



GOOSEBEBRY, BOILED. 

Una poddiiur n nKide in the nine mamwr 
•a Apple pnading. 

.■■ INDIAN. (1) It it a good pbo 
to make thk puddins the n^|ht before. It 
requires a great deal of boilings eay four 
or five hours. Sifted meal and warm milk 
stirred together pretty stiff; sak and suffi- 
cient molasses added. Boil in a stout bag, 
or tightly covisred pan; let not the water 
get in, and be carefiil in tyins to leave room 
(or the meal to swell. Let the milk you use 
be warm, not scalding. Yoii may add 
chopped suet, which is very much liked by 
some, and likewise ginger, if preferred. If 
you have not milk, water will answer. 



INDIAN. (2) Boil in a quart of 

ffood milk a tea-cupfiil of Indian meal, stir 
It constantly till thick, sweetra it with trea- 
cle or brown sugar, and stir in two well- 
beaten eggs, and an ounce of butter; bake 
it in a Dutch oven for half an hour. Haifa 
grated nutmeg may be added, and it may be 
made without c^ps. A boiled Indian meal 
pudding is made in the same way, and after 
beinff mixed with or without eggs in it, it is 
tied in a buttered and floured cmh, and boil- 
ed for two hours. It is eaten with cold or 
melted butter. 



JELLY. Beat to a light cream 

ten ounces of fresh butter, then add by de- 
grees six well-beaten yolks of eggs, and lialf 
a pound of loaf sugar pounded ; stir in two 
or three table-spoonftils of rose water ; beat 
to a stiff froth the whites of #ix ^jgs, mix 
them in lightly ; bake it five-and-twrenty min- 
utes in a dish lined with puff paste. 



JENETON. Butter a mouM, 

and omameat it with raisins in festoons, or 
in any other form ; line it with sponge bis- 
cuit, and fill it up with a mixture of ratafia 
and sponge biscuit, then pour a rich custard 
over the whole, and let it stand for two 
iKHira, adding more custard as it soaks into 
the biscuit. The mould being quite foil, tie 
a cloth over it, and lioil it for about an hour. 



as for tartlets, and bake it in a modentrijr 
h e at ed oven. 



LEMON. (1) Peel four lemons 

thin; boil Uiem till they are tender; rub 
them tlirough a hair sieve, and preserve the 
fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples bisoiits, 
a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of 
fresh butter, and pour over them some boil- 
ing milk or cream in which a stick of cin- 
namon has been boiled. When cold, mix 
with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight 
^gs well beaten; sweeten according to 
taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge 
a dish with good puff paste, put in the mix- 
ture; gamiHi the top with strings <tf paste^ 

14* 



LEMON. (2) PuthatfapooDd 

of feesh batter with half a poind of loaf su- 
gar, into a saucepan, and keep it stirring 
over the fire till it boils; put it into an 
earthen pan, and grate the nnd of a largn 
lemon into it, and wt it stand till cold ; beat 
eight ^pgs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon 
on them; mix the sugar and butter with 
them ; put some rich puff paste at the bottom 
of a dish, then put in the preparation, am) 
add bits of candied lemon-peel when you 
have put in the preparation. Bake with 
great care. 



LEMON. (8) Boil in water, 

in a closely covered saooepan, two hrae 
lemons till quite tender; take out the seem, 
and pound the~ lemons to a paste; add a 
quarter of a nomid of pounded knf sugar, 
the same of fresh butter beaten to a cream, 
and the yolks of three vrell4)eaten eggs; mix 
all together, and bake it in a tin lined widi 
puff paste ; take it out, strew over the top 
grated loaf sugar, and serve it upon a napkin. 



MACARONI. (1) Simmer half a 



pound of macaroni in plenty of water, and a 
table^poonful of salt, till it is tendor ; but 
take care not to have it too soft ; though ten- 
der, it should be firm, and the form entirely 
preserved, and no part lieginning to melt (this 
caution will serve for the preparation of all 
macaroni). Strain the water fitMU it ; beat 
up five yolks and the whites of two esgs ; take 
half a pint of the best cream, and toe breast 
of a fowl, and some thin shoes of ham. 
Mince the breast of the fowl with the ham; 
add tliem with firom two to three table- 
spoonfols of finely-grated cheese, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Mix all these 
with the macaroni, and put into a pudding- 
mould well buttoned, and then let it steam lo 
a stewpan of boiling water for about an 
hour, and serve quite hot, with rich gravy 
(as in Omelet). 



MACARONL (2) Take an ounce 

or two of the pipe sort of macaixmi, and 
simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of 
lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it 
into a dish, with milk, tliree eggs, but only 
one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful 
of almond-wato:, and half a glass of niisin 
wine; lay a nice paste round the edge of the 
dish, and put it in the oven to bake. If 
you chooee you may put in a layer of orange- 
mahnalade, or raspberry-jam: in this case 
you must not put in the almond-water or 
ratafia. 



MARROW. Put into a rang 



PUDJ>m66 



162 



PODDlffGS 



Ibe cramh of a poond loaf, and poor of<er it 
a pint and a half of boiling milk; cover it 
closely for an hour ; cut into small bits half 
a pound of marrowy stone and cut a quarter 
ef a poond of raisins, take the same cfoaMity 
of nicely'Cleaned currants, beat well six egm, 
a tea'^poonful of grated lemon-peel, and the 
saoie of aatmeg ; mix all dmroughty with the 
bread and milk, sweet'sn it well with brown 
sugar, and bake it, with or without a bor- 
der of puir paste iXMind the dish, thrae-quar- 
ters or an hour. It may be baked in a 
Dutch oven, and after bakii^ it for three- 

rirteri of an hour, put a im cover over 
top, and place the dish upoa a gridiron, 
over a slow fire, and let it remain mr fifteen 
minutes. 



MILLET. Wash four table- 

spoonfuls of the seed, boil it in a quart of 
milk with grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, 
and stir in, when a little cooled, an ounce of 
fresh butter; sweeten with brown sugar, 
and add the well-beaten yolks of four, and 
the whites of two ^ga, and a glass of wine 
or spirits. Bake it m a buttered dish. 



MY. Beat up the yolks and 

M-hites of three eggs; strain them through a 
sieve (to keep out the treddles), and gradu- 
ally add to than about a quarter pint ofmilk ; 
stir these well together. Rub together in a 
mortar two ounces of moist sugar and as 
much grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling; 
stir them into the eggs and milk ; then pot 
in four onnoes of flour, and beat it into a 
smooth batter; by degrees stir into it seven 
otmces of suet (minced as fine as possible) 
and three ounces of bread crumbs. Mix all 
thoroughly together at least half an hour be- 
fore you put the pudding into the pot. Put it 
into an earthen pudding mould, that is well 
buttered. Tie a cloth over it very^ tight; 
put it into boiling water, and boil it uree 
hours. Half a pound of raisins cut in half 
added to the above, will make a most admi- 
rable pkun padding. Grated lemon-peel is 
also fine. 

Don't let die water cease to boil : it will 
spoil the pudding. And it is always best 
that puddings be mixed an hour or two be- 
fbre put into the pot, the ingredients get 
ama^mated, and the whole becomes richer 
and Miller of flavor. 

The above pudding may be baked in an 
Qfvei), or under meat, as Yorkshire pudding, 
only add half pint more milk. Should it be 
nhove an inch and quarter in thickness, it 
will take full two hoitrs ; and requires care- 
fill watching; for if the top gets burned, a 
had flavor will pervade the whole pudding. 
Ch", butter 8oine tin patty-pans or sanrers, 
fill theni \nth nodding, and bake alwut an 
hour io a I>.itcb oven. 



NASSAU. Pot into a 



pan the adicJe yolks of eight, and the wlikes 
of four eges, ludf a pound of poonded k»f 
sugar, and one poona of Cresh butter ; stir it 
over a slow fire for nearly half an hear; line 
a dish vrith drin puff paste and lay over tiie 
bottom a thick layer of orange mnmfe]ade« 
and then pot in the pudding. Bake it for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 



NEW COLLEGE, Haifa pound 

of fi^esh beef suet, finely minced, the same dl 
currants, a quarter of a pound of erated 
iMiead, and of pounded sweet biscuit, half a 
tea-spoonfol of salt, a small nutmeg grated, 
an ounce of candied orauige-peel mioced; 
mix all together with two or three well- 
beaten eggs, and fry tliem in butter till of a 
light brown ; shake the pan, and turn than 
fiiaquently till done enough." Serve with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed thickly over 
them. 

NEWMARKET. Put on to 



boil a pint of ^ood milk, with half a lenM»* 
peel, a little cinnamon, and a bay leaf; boil 
gently for five or ten minutes ; s^veeten with 
loaf sugar; break the yoHcsof five, and the 
whiles of three eggs, into a basin ; beat them 
well, and add the milk: beat alt well togeth- 
er, and strain through a fine hair sieve, or 
tarois: have some bread and butter cut very 
thin; lay a layer of it in a pie-dish, and then 
a layer of currants, and so on till tlie dish is 
nearly full ; then pour tlie custard over it, 
and bake half an hour. 



NEWCASTLE, OR CABI- 
NET. Butter a half melon racmld, or qinrt 
basin, and stick all roimd with dried chei>* 
ries, or fine raisins, and fill up with bread 
and butter, 8cc. as in the above; and steam 
it an hour and a half. 

NOTTINGHAM. Peel six 



good apples; take out the core with the 
point of a small knife, or an a{^le corer, 
if you have one ; but be sure to leave the 
apples whole; fill up where you took the 
core from with sugar ; place them in a pie- 
dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, 
prepared as for batter pudding, and bake 
an hour in a moderate oven. 



OATMEAL. Sift a pound 

of oatmeal, chop three<|ueuters of a pound 
of suet, minoe some onions, and mince all 
together; season well with p^per and salt; 
half fUl the skin«*, and boil and dress them 
»9 directed in the receipt for ox-blood pod- 
dings. SiMine people think a little sugar an 
improvement. 



ORANGE.(1>'11m. j-olkfl of HX 



J 



rOfDDINfit 



l«8 



PODDIHOS 



aai tfaft .nfcitH of ikne uggh 
Hum taUMOOonMB ofonnge 
« qoHlar of a pomMl of loaf ngar poanded, 
tin Mn of ■HHad boner; tfarae tablMptMMi- 
Ub of fnrtad fanad, aad a qnMrter of a piat 
of iiMiii; mix all w«A together, and bake 
ia a dkh lined with poffpailB. 



ORANGE. (8> CM in half 

darae loige Seville orangee, aqueese and 
atreia the jaioe; boil the akine till quite 
aoft in a good deal of water, poond them in 
a mcMTtar, and mix them wim nine beaten 
yoUu and fbor wfaitee of eggs, nearly a 
pound of pounded ioaf eqgar, the iuioe of 
the annam, and half a pound of mdted 
butter. Bake it ia a diah lined widi puff 
paate for half an hour. 



PEAS. P« a qwut of apiit 

peae to eoak for two houra into warm wa- 
ter; boil them in eoft water, with a bit of 
butter, till sufficiently tender to prem throucfa 
a neve; pulp them, and add the beaten Tolk 
of one coff, a little pepper aad ealt, and an 
4Minoe of butler. Tie it into a buttered and 
floured cloth, and put it on in boiling wa- 
ter; boil it nearly aa hour. 



PLUM. (1) One pound of lixsab 

beef suet, finely minced, one pound of rabtm 
8t<Mied, five table-spoonfiils of floor, five of 
brown stigar, five well-beaten yolks, and 
three whites of eg^, a tea-spoonnil of salt ; 
mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and boil 
it in a cloth for four or fi\'e hours. Serve 
with grated loaf sugar, and meked butler 
poured over it. 



PLUM. (2) One pound of rai- 

ains, stoned and cut in half: one pound of cur- 
rants, picked, washed, and dried: one pound 
beef soet chopped fine: a pound of gnUed 
bread, or half pound each of grated bread 
and flour: eight eggs : quarter pound of su- 
gar: saltwipoon of stUt: tablespoon of cinna- 
mon and mace mixed: two grated nutmegs: 
a ghws eadi of wine and brandy: quarter 
pound of sugar, and a pint of milk. Pre- 
pare all the day before, except the eggs, that 
you may mix them tlie next morning: it re- 
quires six hours boiling. Beat the eggs 
lightly, then put to them half the milk and 
beat together. Stir in the flour and In^ead ; 
then the sugar by degrees ; then the suet and 
fruit; the fruit to be wdl floured to keep it 
from sinking. Stir hard. Now add the 
flpice and liquor, and the remaaader vf the 
milk. If it is not thick enough, add more 
bread or flour; but if there be too much 
bread or flour the pudding will be heavy. 
Wet the cloth in boiling water, shake it out, 
and sprinkle it with flmr. Layit in a dish 
and poor into it the pudding Tie it tight. 



aUnwuig RMMD to avrdk Bafl liz 
waea yoa lara n oniy mkk over iBe 
•Ida blMched afaaoads in dipa or slips of eit. 
roB, or both. If ytw add grated le m on peel 
to dw ollnr ingreaieaCs it will ameh improva 
thapnidiaf. 



PLUM. (8) One poond ofthe 

best raisias stoned, half a pound of cairanlt 
wail cleaned, one pound of iresh beef soet 
finely minced, five taUe-spoonfids of grated 
bread, three of flour, two of brown sugar, 
one tea-spoonfiil of pounded jgingar, one of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, six we]14)eateB 
eggs, and three wine-glasses of mm, all to 
be mixed thoroughly together the day before 
it is to be boiled. Boil it in a doth or 
moidd fi>r four or five hours. Serve with 
mdled butter, or the following saucer- 
Heat two or three table-spofrnfins ot sweet 
cream, tmd mix it gradually with two well- 
beaten yolks of ^gs; add three taUe-spoon* 
fob of a'hite wine, brandy, or rum, and a 
table-spoonfid of sugar; seasoa with grated 
nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till quite 
hot; but do not allow it to boil. 



PLUM. (4) Fourooneeeof 

apples finely minced, the same quantity of 
currants cleaned and dried, and of grated 
bread, two ounces of raisins, stoned and 
minced, two of pounded loaf sugar, half a 
nutmeg grated, a little candied orange or 
lemon peel, four well4)eaten eggs, one ounce 
and a half of melted butter just warm; mix 
all tlie ingredienis well together, and boil it 
in a buttered shape for four hours. If the 
pudding does not fill the shape, add a slice 
of the crumb of bread at the bottom. Serve 
with a sweet sauce. > 



PLUM, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Haifa poond of grated bread, a quarter of a 
pound of finely-minced suet, a taUe-monfid 
of flora*, half a pound of currants cleaned, 
rather more than two ounces of brown sugar, 
a glass of brandy ; mix all together with a 
sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a 
stifl* batter ; boil it in a cloth for four hours. 
It may be baked, adding half a pound of 
stoned raisins, and a little candied orange 
and lemon-peel. 



POTATO. (1) Boil duee 

large mealy potatoes, mash them very smooth- 
ly, with one ounce of butter, and two or 
three table-epoonfids of thick cream ; add 
three well-boiten eggs, a little sah, grated 
nutmeg, and a tabb-spodnfol of brown sugar. 
Beat all well together, and bake it in a but- 
tered dish, for half an hour in an oven, and 
three-quarters of an hour in a Dutch oven 
A few currants may be added to the pud- 
ding. 



PUDDINGS 



164 



PUDDINGS 



POTATO. (2) Boil half a 

idnt of milk, and die ■aroe qinntity of cream, 
with a ftick of cinoamon, and the peel ci 
a lemon; strain it, and stir in gradually 
three table-epoonfuk of potato flour, mix it 
yevy smoothlv, and add six weU4walen em ; 
sweeten with pounded loaf suffar; stickaU 
found a buttered tin mould, dried cherries, 
or stoned raisins, put in the pudding, and put 
a bit of buttered hnen ovor the top, and then 
the cover of the mould ; place it in a sauce- 
pan of boilinur water, boil it Am* an hotar and 
a half; take care the water does not boil 
over the mould. Serve with a sweet sauce. 



POTATO-FLOUR. BoUsome 

cinnamon, lemon-peel, and su^r, in a quart 
of milk ; strain* and stir it with three table- 
spoonfiils of potato flour previously mixed 
smooth with a little cold milk ; stir it till it 
be nearly cold ; add four well-beaten eggs, 
a glass of sweet wine, or two tabkHmoonfib 
of spirits, and a little marmalade, bake it 
in a Dutch oven. 



PRUNE. Stew a pound of 

prunes with half a pint of Port wine, a quarto* 
c^a pint of water, and a larve table-spoon- 
ful of brown sugar ; break we stones, and 
put the kernels with the fruit; spread it 
over a sheet of puff paste, wet the edges, and 
roll it into the form of a bolster ; tie it firm- 
ly in a buttered and floured clotli, and boil 
it between two and three hours. Serve 
with sweet wine sauce* 

QUINCE. Take a sufficient 



number of ripe quinces to yield a pound of 
pulp, to which put half a pound of powder- 
sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two 
drachms, pounded; mix them well. Beat 
up the yolks of eight egvg in a pint of cream, 
add the quince, &o. stir tlie whole together, 
flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. 



RATAFIA, Pound, with a lit- 

tie rose-water, two ounces of blanched sweet 
almonds, and half a quarter of n pound of 
ratafia cakes, add the well-beaten yolks of 
six, and the whites of two eg^, a pint of 
thick cream, two fflasses of white wine, and 
one oimce of pounded loaf sugar. Bake it 
in A dish, lined with puff paste, for three- 
quarters of an hour. 



REGENT'S. Rub an earthen- 
ware mould with butter, and cover the bot- 
tom with bloom raisins stoned; cut thin 
slices of the crumb of bread, butter, and lay 
one or two over the raisins ; upon that put 
a layer of ratafia cakes, then one of bread 
and butter, and raisins; do this till the mould 
is nearly (iill, and pour over it the following 
mixtures: a pint of cream well sweetenea 



with poooded loaf aogar, and Binad wtA 
lour welMxaten yolks <^ ^BB^« * fi^^"^ ^ 
brandv, and two taUewqpoonnSs of roae-'wa* 
ter; let it soak one w two boon; pot over 
the top a piece of writing-paper buttered, 
and tie over it a ck>tb. S^ii it lor one boar 
and a half, and serve it with wine sance* 



GROUND RICE, RICH. (1) 

Stir into a quarter of a poimd of ground 
rice, a pint and a half of new milk ; pat it 
into a saucepan^ and keep stirrii^ it till it 
boils; then add three ounces oi melted but- 
ter, the same quantity of sugar, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a tea-spoonflil of grated femon- 
peel ; mix it very well, and when cold, add 
the we1l4)eaten yolks of four, and the white 
(^<me €«g, with a glass of ratafia, and half 
a one oT orange-flower or rose water; bake 
it in a dish lined with puff paste lor three- 
quarters of an hour. Before serving, strevr 
over the top grated kaf sugar. 



GROUND RICE. (2) Mi» 

till quite smooth, with a small tea-eupfiil of 
ground rice, a quart of good milk, stir it 
over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for 
three minutes ; put it into a lMsin,and wbenr 
nearly cold, ado the well-beaten yolks of 
six, and the whites of two eggs, with a tea- 
cupful of sweet wine, or a glass of spirits ; 
put it into a buttered dish, and bake it £»* 
three-quarters of an hour,, or for one hour ii» 
a Dutdi oven, in the same way as the mar- 
row pudditt|^ is done. Any sort of preserve 
may oe put into the bottom of the di^b, ar.d 
a sweet sauce may be served with it» 



GROUND RICE. (8) Boil 

in a pint of milk a quarter of a pound of 
flour of rice, with two taUe-qxKHiliib of 
rose water, and half the peel of a lemon, styr 
it till thick, take it off, and mix in a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, half a grated nut- 
m^, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the 
whites of three ^^gs ; sweeten it with brown 
sugar, pick out the lemmi-peel, and bnil it 
in a buttered basin, which must be complete- 
ly filled. Serve with a sauce made with a 
glass of white wine, boiled in melted butter, 
and sweetened with brown sugar. 



RICE, BAKED OR BOIL- 



ED. Wash in cold water and pick vary 
clean six ounces of rice, put it in a quart 
stewpan three parts filled with cold water, 
set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes; 
pour away the water, and put in one quart 
of milk, a roll of lemon-peel, and a bit of 
cinnamon; let it boil gently till the rice is 
quite tender; it will tuee at least one hour 
Gind a quarter; be careful to stir it every 
five minutes ; take it off tlie fire, and stir in 
an ounce and a half of finesh butter, and betit 



PUDDINGS 



165 



PUDDINGS 



«p diree eggs on a phte, ft nh-^MXiafti] of 
fiatmeg, two otmoea oCwu^; put it into tbe 
padding^, and stir it till it ia quite anooth; 
line a pie-difih bi^ enooah to hold it with 
puff paate, notch it round the edge, put in 
your podding, and bake it three^uaitera of 
an hour: this will be a nice firm pudding. 

if you like it to eat more like custard, 
add one^ more em, and half a pint more 
milk; it will be better a little thinner when 
boiled; one hour wiH boil it. If you like 
it in little puddings, butter snmll tea<cupe, 
and either bake or boil them, half an hour 
will do either: you may vary the puddins 
by putting in candied lemon or orai^ peel, 
minced very fine, or dried cherries, or three 
-ounces of currants, or raisins, or apples 
minced fine. If the puddings are baked or 
boiled, serve thrai with white wine sauce, or 
butter and sugar. 



RICE. Boil a quarter of a 

pound of rice in water tifl it is soft, then 
drain it in a sieve, and pound it in a dkh*- 
tar; add five weU-beaten yolks of eggs, a 
quarter of a poimd o{ butter, the same pro- 
portion of susar, a snail nutm^, and half 
the rind of a lemon grated; work them wefl 
together for twenty minutes, and add a 
pcHmd (^ cleaned currants; mix it all weU 
and boil it in a pudding cbth for an hour 
and a half. Serve with wine sauce. 



RICE, WITHOUT EGGS. 

Weigh six ounces of rice, six of brown su- 
gar, and thiiee and a half of fresh butter; 
break the butter into small bits; wash the 
rice in sevei'al waters ; put all into a pudding- 
dish, and fin it op with ^ood milk ; let it 
Boak some houm. Bake it in a modemte 
oven for nearly two houre, and as tbe milk 
wastes, fill op the dish with more, till the 
rice be swelled and soft ; then let it brown. 



lUCH. Put into a saucepan 

^r ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of 
pounded loaf sugar, six of marmalade, and 
aix ounces of eggs, well beaten; stir all one 
way till it be thoroughly warmed ; it must 
not be allowed to boil. Bake it in a dish 
lined with puff paste. 



SAGO. (1) Boil five table-spoon. 



luls of sago, well picked and washed, in a 
quart of water, also half the peel of a lemon, 
and a stick of cinnamon; when it is rather 
thick, add half a pint of white wine, and 
eweeten it with good brown sugar; beat six 
yolks and three whites of eggs, pick out the 
leinoo-peel and cimiamon, mix all well to- 
gether, and bake k in a dish with or with- 
out puff paste. 



SAGO. (2) Wash half a pound 



of sago in several waters (warm^; tbm pot 
it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, 
and a little cinnamon ; let it boil till thick, 
stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and 
beat op with it ludf a pound of fifesu butter; 
add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of 
four eggs, beaten separately, half a fflaae of 
white wine, sugar according to taste, and a 
little flour ; mix all together weD, and boil 
it. Serve with sweet sauce. 



SALT. Take a pint of miUt, 



four dessertHBpoonfiils of flour, a little suet, 
shred fine, four ^gs, salt, and pounded gin- 
ger; mix first the eggs mid milk, then add 
the flour, &c. ; put more flour, if necessary, 
to give it consistence; tie your pudding u 
a Iwttered eloth, and boil it two hours. 



SCOTCH. Eight well-beaten 

yolks and Aree whites of eggs, half a pound 
(^pounded loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of melted butter, the grated peel and iuioe 
of one lemon ; mix all toffether, and bake it 
in a dish lined with puflT paste; turn it out 
to serve, and strew over the top grated loaf 
sugar. 

 SIPPET. Gut a small kwf into 



extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them 
at tbe bottom of a diah, then a Uiyo* of mar- 
row, or beef suet, a layer of currants, and 
dien a layer of bread again, &c., and se 
continue until tbe didi is fiiUed; mbc four 
6ggB, well beaten, with a quart of cream, a 
nutm^, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
pour over ; set it in the oven, it will take 
half an hour baking. 

SHROPSHIRE. Offi«hbeef 



suet finely minced, of brown bread grated, 
and of brown sugar, one pound eadi, one 
nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of brandy, eight 
well-beaten yolks, and four whites of eggs; 
mix all well together, and boil it in a cloth 
or mould for four hours. Serve it with a 
sauce of melted butter, sugar, and two tabfe- 
spoonfiite (^brandy. 

SPRING FRUIT. Peel and 



well wash four dozen sticks of rhubarb: pot 
into a stewpan with the pudding a lemon,* a 
little cinnamon, and as much moist sugar at 
will make it quite sweet; set it over a fire, 
and reduce it to a marmalade ; pass through 
a hair sieve, and proceed as directed for (he 
Boston pudding, Kaviiw out the lemon-juice, 
as the rhubarb will be round sufficiently acid 
of itself. 

SPEAKER'S. Stone and 



weigh three-quarters of a pound of raisins. 
Rub with butter a plain oval mould, and 
stick upon it some of the raisins, in strijies 



PUDDINGS 



166 



PUDDINGS 



or cirdei. Cut loine thin dioeii of bread 
without the crust, dry thedi awhile befiire 
the fire, butter, and cut them into gtri|M 
about an inch and a quarter wide ; line the 
mould with part of the bread, then put a 
layer of rai^'ns, and strew over a table- 
spoonfiil ofptjunded loal susar; add a layer 
of the bread and butter ; filidie shape nearly 
full, putting brsad and butter on the top. 
Mix with a pint of good milk, the- well-bea- 
ten yolks of foui* eggs, a table-spoonful of 
sugar, one and a half of rose-water, and a 
glass of brandy ; pour this over die pudding, 
and let it soak one or two hours. Bake it 
three-quarters of an hour. It may be boiled 
by steam for an hour and a half. 



SQUASH. One eood squash 

slewed and well bruised ; six lai-ge apples 
stew^ tender; mix them well tugetlier; 
add seven spoonfuls of bread crumro; baU* 
pint of milk; two spoonfuls of rose-water, 
two of wine ; six eggs ; one grated nutmeg; 
salt and sugar to taste. Beat all together till 
smooth, and put in a dish lined with puff 
paste. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 



SUET, WIGGY'S WAY. 

Suet, a quarter of a pound ; flour, three table- 
spoonAils; eggs, two; and a little gi'ated 
ginger; milk, half a pint. Minoe the suet 
as fine as possible, roll it with the rolling- 
pin so as to mix it well with the flour ; beat 
up the eggs, mix them with the milk, and 
then mix all togeUier ; wet your cloth well 
in boiling water, flour it, tie it loose, put it 
into boiliiw water, and boil it an hour and a 
quarter. Mrs. Glasse has it, " when you 
have made your water boil, then put your 
pudding into your pot/' 



»> 



SUET. Mixsixtable-epoonfiibof 

grated bread with a pound of finely-minced 
fresh beef suet, or that of a loin oi mutton, 
one pound of flour, two lea-spoonfub of salt, 
six well-beaten eggs, and nearly a pint of 
milk. Boil it in a clotli four or five hours. 
Serve it plain, or with a sweet sauce. 



APPLE SUET. Of finely minc- 
ed fresh mutton suet, grated apples, flour^and 
brown sugar, six ounces each, half a grated 
nutmeg, a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and four well- 
beaten eggs, all well mixed together; bolL 
ed for two hours» and served with a sweet 



sauce. 



SUET, OR DUMPUNGS. 

Chop six ounces of suet very fine; put it m 
a basin with six ounces of flour, two ounces 
of bread CTumbe>and a tea'^poonfiil of salt 
stir it all well together: beat two eggs on a 
plate, add to tliem six table-spoonfuls of 
milk, put it by degrees into the basin, and 



itirit allwcll together; divide it ioto ds 
dumplings, and tie them separate, previoiiBl|^ 
dredging the cloth li^tly with flour. Boil 
them one hour. This is veryeood the next 
day firied in a little butter. The above wiD 
make a good pudding, boiled io an eartlieo 
ware mould, with the addition of one more 
*gg> A lil-tle more milk, and two ounces of 
suet. Boil it two hours. 

N. B. — Tlie most economical way of maJc- 
ing suet dumplings, is to boil ihem without a* 
cloth in a pot with beef or mutton ; no egg» 
are they wanted, and the dumplings are quite 
as liglit without: rolltliem in flo«ir before )ou 
put them into the pot ; add six ounces of 
ciui*ants washed and picked, and you have 
currant pudding: or divided into six parts, 
currant dumplings; a tittle sugar wiU ioi^ 
prove them. 



SWEETMEAT. Slice dun. 



of orange, Ipmuii-pecl, and citron, an ounce 
each ; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lin- 
ed with a light puff paste; mix with half a 
pouud of butler tuelted, the yolks of seven 
eorgs and tlic whites of two, and five ounce* 
ofsugur ; pour diis over the sweetmeats, and 
set it in the oven ; it wiH take rather mor» 
than half an hour baking. 



TANSY. Pour over a thick 

slice of the crumb of bread a quatt of boiling 
milk ; cover it till cold. Beat tlie yolks of 
four and the whites of two eggs. Pound 
some tansy with two or three leaves of 
spinach; squeeze tlie juice, and put a» 
much of it as will make the pudding a good 
green color, a glass of hi-andy, half a grat- 
ed nutmeg, and four ounces of fi-esli butter ; 
mix all the ingredients, sweeten, and put it 
into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire tiD 
it be hot. Bake it in a buttered dish for 
half an hour. Before serving, strew grated 
loaf sugar over the top. 



TRANSPARENT. Put eight 

eggs well-beaten into a stewpan with half 
a pound of sug;ur, pounded fine, half a pound 
of butter, and some nutmeg gi-ated. Set it 
on the fire> and keep constantly stirring till 
it tliickens. T\iea set it into a basm to 
cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge 
of Uie dish; pour in the puddings and bake 
it in a moiderate ovec It will cut light 
and clear. Candied orange and citron may 
be added, if you think proper. 



TAPIOCA. Put four table- 

spoonfiils of tapioca into a quart of milk, 
and let it remain all night, then put a spoon- 
ful of brandv, scHue. lemon-peel, and a little 
spice; let tnem boil gently, add four eggs, 
and the whites well beaten, and a quarler 
of a pound of sugar. Bake it. 



PUDDINGS 



167 



QUA 



TREACLE. Mix together a 

|xxind of itoned raisins, three-quartera of a 
pound of dired suet, a pound of flour, a pint of 
milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated gin- 
ger, and pounded spice; when well stirredup, 
tie it m a floured cloth, and boil it four bounk 



WEST COUNTRY. Mix, with 

Ibur well4)eatcn eggs, half a pound of apples 
finely minced, the same quantity of grated 
bread, and of well-cleaned currants, a quar- 
ter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a 
tea-opoonfiil of crated autro^ . This padding 
may be either boiled or baked, and instead 
of grated bread, four ounces of whole rice 
may be used, which must be boiled in milk, 
•trained, and albwed to be cold before being 
mixed with the other ingredients. This 
puddding is boiled one hour and a half, and 
tierved with a sweet sauce* 



WHITE. Boil in a quart of 

nilk two table-spoonfuls of rose-water; add 
to two well-beaten esgs, three tablewmoonfuls 
of flour, and a little sak; stir it mto the 
milk, and if not thick, dredge in a little 
more flour; Just before it is taken ofl* the 
fire, put in a bit of fresh butter Ihe size of a 
walnut. Serve it «vith red currant jelly up- 
on the top of it. 



■—- — WHORTLEBERRY. This 
pudding may be made both of flour and in- 
dian meaL Use a pint of milk, some mo- 
lasses, and a little salt, stirred quite stiflT 
with meal, and a quart of berries mixed in 
with a spoon. Tie the bag loose, and let it 
boil three hoivra. When made of flbur, pre- 
pare it like batter puddings, rather stiff to 
keep the berries from settling. Boil two 
hours. Tie the bag kjose. 



WILTSHIRE. Mix, with three 

well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk, as much 
flour as iviil make it a tliick batter, and a 
little salt; beat it for some minutes, stir in 
. gently a large tea-cupful of picked red cur- 
rants; boil it in a cloth for two hours, turn 
it out upon the dish it is to be served in, cut 
it into slices about tliree-quarters of an inch 
thick, but do not separate them ; put between 
each a tliin slice of butter, and some brown 
Bii^r, and serve it hot. 



YORKSHIRE, under roast 

MEAT. This pudding is an es|)eciaUy ex- 
cellent accompaniment to a sirloin of beef, 
—loin of veal,— or any fat and juicy joint. 
Six table-spoonfiib of flour, three tm^ a 
tea-spoonfol of salt, and a pint of milk, so 
as to make a middling stiff batter, a little 
Btifler than you woukl for pancakea^ beat 
it op well, and take care it is not luq^pv; 
put a dish under the meat, and let the driph. 



pinn drop into it till it is quite hot uid 
well gresund; then pour in the baOar;— 
when the upper surfiioe is brown and mC, 
turn it, that both sides may be brown alike: 
if you wish it to cut firm, and the padding 
an inch thick, it will take two houn at a 
good fire. 

N. B. — ^The true Yorkshire padding is 
about half an inch thick when done; biA it 
is the lashi<Mi in I^ondon to make than fiiU 
twice that thkUuiess. 

PUFFS. (1) Roll oat puff paste nearly 
a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a sman 
saucer, or tin cutter of that siie, cot it into 
round pieces: place upon one side raspberry 
or strawberry iam, or any sort of preserved 
fruit, or stewed apples ; %vet the edges, fold 
over the other si<fe, and press it rmmd with 
the finger and thumb. Or cut the paste mto 
the form of a diamond, by on tlie firuit, and 
fold over the paste, so as to give it a trian- 
gular sliape. See Paeie, 

PUFFS. (2) Put into a saucepan a pint 
of milk, boil slowly, and stir in flour till it 
be very thick, like paste; when coU, mix 
with it six well-beaten e^, a table-spocm- 
fiil of suffar, half a nutmeg, and the peel of 
a small lemon grated, and a table-spoonfol 
of brandy ; beat it well together for fifteen 
minutes, and wlien quite light, drop it from 
a dessert-spoon into a pan of boiling clarified 
suet or lara. Serve with pounded Laf sugar 
strewed over them. 

PUFFS OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 

Roll out, a quarter of an inch thick, good 
puff paste, and cut it into pieces four inches 
square; lay a small quantity of any kind of 
jam on each, double them over, and cut them 
into square, triangle, or, with a tin cutter, 
half moons ; lay them with paper on a baking- 
plate; ice them, bake them about twenty 
minutes, taking care not to color the icing. 

PUNCH. See JuMUee'e Sirvp, 



Q. 



QUAILS, HUNTERS. Putthequaib 
in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- 
leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them 
on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until 
they are tender, when add a dessert-spoonfiil 
of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a 
little stock, when this is thick, and quite 
hot (without boiling); take it finom the fire 
andsorve. 

QUAILS, SPANISH. Mix the juioa 



QUE 



168 



QUI 



of a femon with loiiie butter, salt, and pep- 
per; pfck, and prepare eight quaib, stuff 
thetu weU with the above mixture; then 
AistfiB the less to the body, leaving (he claws 
itee ; truss tfiem a good shape, and put them 
into a saucepan on slices of bacon, cover 
them also with slices, add a gravy, moisten- 
ed with equal portions of white wine and 
stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; 
dien take them out, drain and untie the 
birds, place each on a piece of fried bread 
the size of the quail, and serve with a clear 
ioanish sanoe, with the addition of a little 
glaze. 

QUAILS, HOT PIE. Make a raised 
crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom 
df it §cxDoe farce eutte mixed with the livers 
of the quails, pounded, and some sweet 
herbs; take eiglit quails, take out the thigh 
bones, and half dress them in a little butter 
and svtreet herbs; when cold, stuff each with 
some of the abovennentioned iarce, arranee 
them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the 
centre with tne remainder of the &rce, season 
it wen, lay slices of bacon over the quails; 
wet the ec^es of the paste with water, cover 
the pie with a very thin crust ; do it over 
with ef^, and decorate it accordiug to ikncy. 
Put it mto the oven to bake, an hour and a 
quarter will suffice. When done, raise the 
top cai'efully, remove the bacon, take off all 
the fitty pour in some good gravy, and serve. 

QUAILS, ROASTED. Truss the birds, 
and stuff Haem with beef-euet and sweet 
herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fasten them to a 
^it, and put them to the fire; baste with 
salt and water when they first begin to get 
warm; then dredge them with flour, suid 
baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or 
three shalloCs, and die juice of a Seville or- 
angb into a little rich gravy ; set it on the 
fire, shake it about, and when tlie anchovy 
is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Gar- 
nish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These 
birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in 
a slice of bacon, and then in a vinc'leaf. 
They should be kept at a moderate distance 
finom the fire. 

QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little 
butter worked up with fluur, and a few green 
onions into a stewpan; when brotli^n, put 
in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of 
stock, parsley, some more small onions, a 
bay-leaf, and two or three cloves ; stew these 
till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish 
your dish witli cock's-combs, artichoke bot- 
toms, fried bread, &c. 

QUEEN'S POTAGE. Draw, wash, 
and clean thrae chickens, or young fowls, put 



them into a stewpan, with a bunck of parsley 
atod^ some well>«eaaoned boiling veaT sCbck ; 
let it stew for an hour; take out the ibwlfer, 
and pound all the meat to a fine paste in a 
marbte mortar, with the crumb of two penny 
loaves, previously sotsked in the soup, and 
the yolks of three or four hard boiled eggs; 
rub all throuflii a sieve, and add it to the 
soup stirrhig it v»eH. Put a quait of rich 
eream on this fire, and stir iC till it boilir, and 
then mix it with the soup and serve it qoif e 
hot. 

QUEEN OR HEART CAKES. Omt 
pound of sifted sugar, one pound of butter, 
eight eggs, one piMind and a quarter of floury 
two ounces of currants, mid half a nutmeg 
grated. Cream the butter, and mix it weU 
with the sugar and spice, then put in half 
^ ^gs» ^^ heat it ten mitmtee— add the- 
remainder of the ^gs, and woiii it ten min- 
utes k)nger— stir in the flour lightly, and the 
oirrants afterwards, — then take smalt tin 
pans of any shape (liearts the most usual), 
rub the inside of each with butter, fill and 
bake them a few minutes in a hot oven, on 
a sheet of matted wire, or on a baking plate 
— when done, remove them as early as po»- 
sible from die pans. 

QUEEN'S DROPS. Leave out four 
ounces of flour from the last receipt, and 
add two ounces more of currants, and two 
ounces of candied peel, cut small — work it 
the same as in the last receipt, and when 
ready put the mixture into a biscuit funnel, 
and lay ttiem out in drops abuut the size of 
lialf a crown, on white paper, — bake them 
in a hot oven, and when nearly ctftdf lake 
them from the paper. 

QUINCE COMPOTE. Take six 
quinces, cut them in halves, and coi-e them ; 
scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear 
sirup into a preserving-pan, with the Juice 
of a lemon ; when hut, add the quinces, and 
give them a boil togellier ; drain the fi*uit, 
arrange it in the compotier; leave the sirup 
to tliicken a little, and pour it over the 
quinces. 

QUINCE CREAM. Take four or five 
ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to sof- 
ten them; pare, core, slice them thin, and 
then boil them slowly in a pint of good 
cream, with a little ginger; when tolerably 
thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, anci 
flavor -it with rose-water. 

QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jeOy 
ought not to be quite ripe, they should, how- 
ever, be of a fine yellow color ; take off the 
down whidi covera them, guaiter, core, put 
diem into a saucepan, with water enough 



QUI 



i&g 



QUI 



to cover them; set them on the fire, and 
when soil, lay die pieces on a sieve to drain, 
IMneesing then very slightly; strain tlie liquor, 
and measure it; clarify, and boil to C4U9e 
an equal quantity ofsu^r; then take it ofi^ 
add the liquor to it, stirring it well ; when 
mixed, put it on the fii-e, still stiiring; as 
soon as the jelly spreads ov^ tlie spoon, and 
"fells from it like molasses; take it from 
the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. 

QUINCES TO KEEP. Gather the 
firuit quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub 
each canciullv with a clean cloth, to remove 
the down ; then quarter, and pHit them into 
bottles, corked tight. Give them half an 
liour's boil in the bain-marie^ 

QUINCE MARMALADE. Gath<>r 
the firuit when fully ripe, and of a fine yel- 
low; pare, quarter, and cora it. Put the 
4|aince3 into a saucepan, with a little water, 
«et them on the fire until they are quite sofl ; 
then take them out, and lay them on a 8ieve 
In drain; rub them through, weigh tlie 
pulp; boil an equal quantity of sugar to 
petit caste, then add the pulp, stir them 
together over the fire, until it will fiill from 
the spoon like a jelly ; the marmalade is 
then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, 
-cove* them close. 

QUINCES TO PICKLE. Pare and 
■cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, 
and put tliein, with a gallon of water, and 
two pounds of honey, into a large sauce- 
pan ; mix them together well, and set ihem 
on a slow fire fur half an hour: strain tlie 
liquor into ajar; when quite cold, wipe the 
quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; 
cover them very close. 

QUINCES PRESERVED IN WHITE 

JILLY. Take as many quinces as you 
may require, choose tiiem sound; pare, 
quarter, and core them, strewing powder- 
Busar over as you do them, filling up all the 
boles also with sugar ; throw in a small quan- 
tity of water, and when all are cut, add more 
water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil 
quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, 
and the sirup clear, add some apple-jelly, 
^ive tlie whole one boil, and then pour it 
into glasses; when cold, drain ofl* the sirup 
and jelly, put them into a saucepan,, and 
let them boil as quick as you can; )U8t be- 
fore the jelly is taken oft*, put in a small 
quantity of mivsk, or any other ingredient 
you may wish to flavor the preserve with, 
and then pour it in the glasses again, over 
the quinces, and when cold cover them. 
This may also be colored red by adding 9 
small quantity of prepared cocliineal; in 
diis case, the jelly should be red too. 

15 



QUINCES THE SPANISH WAY. 
Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, put 
them into a stewpan with a pint and a half 
of water and two pounds of fine sugar, set 
them on a slow fire, and when th^ begin 
to dry, moisten them with rose-water and 
sack, or white wine; then press tlie paste 
through a ooai'se sieve, add two pounas of 
susar, a little orange-fiiower and rose water. 
UHien sufficiently done, it will come off 
clean, if dropped on a plate; then eet it 
aside to cool. Put it into sliallow pots, 
strew p^fiimed comfits over, and oovei 
tbem close. 

QUINCES, SIRUP OF. Pare and 
scrape some \'ery ripe quinces into a linen 
cloth, press out the juice, which put in a 
very warm place, or wliere it is exposed to 
the sun, until all the fecula lails to the bot- 
tom; tlien strain it well, and for every 
quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound 
of sugar; mix them tosetlier, and boil the 
whole to perle; take it off, and when tlie 
sirup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. 
I'ake care to Keep the bottles well corked. 

QUINCE TART. Take some preser- 
ved quinces, make a sirup with some sugar 
^nd water, of which, and the preserve, take 
an equal weight, and put it into a preserving* 
ptin; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit; 
when tolerably clear, lay the quinces in a 
tart-dish with puff paste as usual ; cover and 
bake it ; as soon as it is done raise the top 
gently, pour in the sirup, ice it, and servo. 

QUIN'S SAUCE. See Sauce, 

QUINTESSENCE OF ANCHOVY. 

Tiie goodness of tliis preparation depend* 
almost entirely on having fine mellow fish, 
that have been in pickle long enough (t. e. 
about twelve months) to dissolve easily, yet 
are not at all rusty. 

Choose those that are in the state they 
come over in, not such as have been put into 
fresh pickle, mixed witli red paint, which 
some add to improve the complexion of the 
fish; it has been said, that others have a 
trick of putting anchovy liquor on pickled 
sprats ; you will easily discover this by wash- 
ing one of them, and tasting the flesh of it, 
which in the fine anchovy is mellow, red, 
and higli-flavored, and the bone moist and 
oily. Make c»ily as much as,*' will soon be 
used, the fresher it is the better. 

Put ten or twelve anchovies into a mortar, 
and pound tliem to a pulp; put this into a 
very clean iron, or silver, or very well 
tinned saucepan; then put a large table- 
spoonful of cold spring-water (we prefer 
good vinegar) into the mortar; shake it 
round, and pour it to the pounded anchovies. 



RABBIT 



no 



RABBIT 



•et tbem b^ the side of a slow fire, very fire- 
qnenihr stirring them tosetber tUI tbey are 
indted, which they will be in the course of 
five mioutes. Now stir id a quarter of a 
drachm of sood cayenne peppor. aud let it 
remaJD by the side <^the fire for a few min- 
utes kxiger; then, while it is H-arm, rub it 
throqrii a hair sieve, with the back of a 
woooea spooo. 

The essenoe of anchovy, is made with 
double the above quantity of water, as th^ 
are of opinion that it oii^t to be so thin as 
not to hang about the sides of die bottle; 
when it does, the large surface of it is soon 
acted u]^n Lw the air, and becomes rancid 
and qx>ils all the rest oi it. 

A roll of thin-cut lemon-peel infused with 
the andiovy, imparts a fine, fresh, delicate, 
aromatic flavor, which is very grateful ; this 
n only recommended when you make sauce 
for inunediate use ; it will keqi much better 
without: if you wish toacidulute it, instead 
of water make it with artificial leinon-juioe. 



R. 



RABBITS. (1) TroM your rabbits short, 
lay them in a basin of wBrm water for ten 
minutes, then put them into plenty of water, 
and boil them about half an hour; if large 
ones, three-quarters; if veiy old, an hour: 
smother them with plenty of white ouiun 
sauce, mince the liver, and lav it round ihe 
dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in 
a boat. 

06a. — A^k thocse you are goin? to make 
liver sauce for, if they like plain hver sauce, 
at liver and parsley, or li%'er and lemon sauce. 

N. B. — It will save much trouble to the 
cai'ver, if the rabbits be cut up in tlie kitclien 
into pieces fit to help at table, and the head 
divided, one-half laid at each end, and slices 
of lemon and the liver, chopped very finely, 
laid on the sides uf the dish. 

At all events, ait off the head before you 
send it to table, we hardly remember that 
the thing ever lived if we don't see tlie head, 
while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut 
up in an attitude imitative of life ; besides, 
for the pre^rvation of the liead, the poor an- 
imal sometimeii suffers a slower death. 

RABBITS. (2) If your fire is clear 
and sharp, thirty minutes will roast a young, 
and forty a full grown rabbit. When you 
lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge 
it lightly and carefully with flour, that you 
may have it frothy, and of a fine li^t brown. 
Wfiile the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver 
with some parsley; when tender, chop them 
rx>gether, and put lialf the mixture into some 
melted butter, reserving the other half for 



garaish, divided into little hiOocks. Ort 
off the bead, and lay half on eadi side of 
the dish. 

06«. — A fine, well-growa (but yoimg) 
wmren rabbit, kept sometime after it has 
been killed, and roasted with a stufifing in 
its belly, eats very like a hare, to the nature 
of whioi it approaches. It is nice, nourishing 
food when yoimg, but hard and unwholesome 
vHien oU. 

RABBIT, BROILED. Take a couple of 
young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to 
steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed 
with parsley, leeks, a few mudirooms, and a 
clove of garlic, all slired fine, salt and pepper ; 
roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacon, 
and put them, with a part of the seasonings 
into pieces of white paper ; butter the papers 
inside ; broil upon a gridiron over a vei'y 
slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. 

RABBITS, IN A FRICASSEE. Take 
two fine white rabbits, and cut them in 
pieces, bv cutting oflTthe le^, shoulders, and 
back; blanch them in boiling water, and 
skim them for one minute; stir a few trim- 
mings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the 
fire, with a bit of butter, till it b^ins to fry, 
then stir in a spoonfiil of flour; mix into the 
flour, a little at a time, nearly a quart of 
good consomme, which set on die fire, and 
when it boils, put the rabbits in, and let them 
boil gently till done, then put them into 
another stewpan, and reduce the sauce till 
nearly as thick as paste; mix in about half 
a pint of good boiling cream, aud when it 
becomes the thickneeia of bechameUe sauce 
in general, squeeze it through die tammy 
to the rabbits ; make it vei-y hot, shake in a 
few inushrooms, the yolk of an ^g, and a 
little cream, then sorve it to table. Rabbita 
may also be preserved, white or brown, in 
the same manner as chickens. 

RABBIT, MINCED. Take the re- 
mains of a roasted rabbit, cut -off all the 
meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Then break the bones of the rabbit into 
small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, 
with a slice of butter, some shallots, lialf a 
clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil ; 
^ive these a few turns over the fire, then shake 
in a little flour; moisten with a glass of red 
wine, and Uie same quantity of stock, and 
let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour ; 
strain it off, and put in tlie minced meat, 
adding salt and coarse pepper; heat the 
whole, without boiling, and serve hot: gar« 
nish with fi*ied bread. 

RABBrrS IN A MINUTE. Cutyouf 
rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry) 
put a quarter of a pound of outfier mto w^ 



RABBIT 



171 



RABBIT 



tftewpBii, set it on the fire, and when warani 
pot in the rabbh with a little poanded spice, 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmes ; let the fire 
tw iMisk, and as soon as the pieces are 
tM^wned, add a little shred parsley and shal- 
lots, leave it three or fbor minutes longer on 
the fire, and then serve. Ten at fiAeen min- 
utes are nifiicient to cook this didi. 

RABBIT PIE. Cat a couple of young 
rabbits into quarters, and bruise a quarter 
of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the 
livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, pars- 
ley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet ba- 



11 ; 



ail ; when these are all beaten fine, line your 
pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer 
of the seasoning at the tx>ttom of the dish, 
and put in the rabbits; pound some more 
bacon in a mortar, mix witli it some fresh 
butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and 
over that lay thin slices of bacon ; put on the 
cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be 
done in about two hours; when baked, take 
off the cover, take out the bacon and skim 
off the &t, and if there is not a sufficient 
quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or 
veal gravy. 

RABBIT PIE, RAISED. Cut your 
rabbits in pieces, and put them into a stew- 
pan; with a bit of fresh butter, lemon-juice, 
pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, shallots, choraed 
very fine, and a little pounded mace. When 
the pieces of rabbit are about half done, lay 
them on a dish, and when cold, raise tte 
cnist; put light forcemeat at the bottom; 
the rabbit upon it, and more forcemeat upon 
the top. Cover it, and put it in a moderate 
even to bake gently; when done, tak^ off 
the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads 
cock's combs, &c., and serve. 

RABBITS, PORTUGUESE. Cutoff 
tlie heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the 
backs ij^wards, the two legs stripped to the 
end, and trussed with a couple of t^ewers 
in the same manner as chickeras, the wings 
turned like the pinions of a chicken; lard 
and roast them with good gravy ; if they are 
intended for boiling, they should not be lard- 
ed, but be served with bacon, and greens, 
or celery sauce. 

RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or 
three young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them 
op, and cake off the leg bones at the thigli, 
eeason them well with pepper, mace, cay- 
enne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine pow- 
der, and put them into a small pan, placing 
them as closely together as possible. Make 
the top as smo^tli as yon can. Keep out the 
heads and carcasses, but take off the meat 
about the neck. Put plenty of butter, and 
)et die whole bake gently. Let it remain in 



the pan for two days, then pot it into mmJX 
pots, adding butter. The Uven ■bould ako 
be put in. 

RABBIT PRESERVED. Haviof 
boned a rabbit, lard it with baoon and bam; 
season it well inside and out, roU it up, be- 
ginning with the legs, make it ti^t, and 
tie it. Put it into a itew-pan, with •ome 
oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set then 
on the fire till done enough (bi]tf without 
boiling). When sufficiently cooked, take 
out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then 
cut it into small pieces, which put into bot- 
tles ; fill them with oil uid cover with wet 
bladders. When required for table, take 
them out, cut them into fillets, and place 
on a dish with dired parsley and oiL 

RABBITS PULLED. Half boil your 
rabbits, with an onion, a little whole pep- 
per, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of 
lemon^seel; poll the fle^ into flakes; put 
to it a little of the liquor, a bit of butler roll- 
ed in flour, pepper, salt, nutm^, chopped 
parsl^, and the liver boiled and bruised; 
Doil this up, shaking it round, and sorve. 

RABBITS, ROASTED. Truss them 
for roastinig, and stuff them with the liver 
minced raw, erated bread, and ham, butter 
or suet, and diopped parsley, seasoned with 
a little lemon thyme, ^ted nutm^, salt, and 
pepper, and bound with an egg beaten. Sew 
them up, and roast them before a quick fire, 
and baste them with butter^ Serve them 
with gravy, or melted batter with lemon 
pickle in it. Two will take an hour to 
roast. They may also be fi'icasseed or firied, 
cut into joint?, with plenty of fried parsley, 
and served wiUi a sauce made of the liver 
and some parsley chopped, and mixed in 
melted butter, with a little pepper and salt, 
or made into a pie the same as chickens. 

RABBIT SOUP. Oit an old rabbit 
into pieces, put them into a quart of water; 
boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat 
the meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; 
add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to 
your taste ; stir it into the liquor the rabbit 
was boiled in, with the addition of a very 
little cream. 

N. B. The meat of the whole rabbit ia 
too much for one quart; query, would it 
not be enough for twol 

RABBITS S11EWED, WITH A 

BROWN SAUCE, OR WITH A WHITE 

SAUCE. Wash and clean the rabbits well, 
let them lie for two or three hours in cold 
water, cut them into joints, wash and dry 
them in a cloth, dust them with flour, ana 
fry them of a light brown with batter, and 



RAG 



172 



RAS 



ftew them in the following satioe: Brown 
three ounces of butter in a ste\v|jan, with a 
table<4poonfol of flour, a minced onion, some 
pefiper and salt ; add a pint of gravy and 
the rabbits, stew them till they are tender, 
and a little before ser^'ing, stir in a table- 
spoonful of ketchup. When it is wislied to 
dress with a white sauce, the nibbits are not 
fried, hut stewed in while stork, which is 
seasoned with white peppei*, and salt, and 
thickened with a piece of butter mixed with 
flour. A few minutes before serving, a little 
crenm is added, and a table-spooofiil of lemon 
pickle. 

RADISHES IN BROTH. Take some 
young radishes, pick and scald them, cut 
them into halves or quartera according to 
their size, and boil them with a slice of ba- 
con in some stock. In a little time take 
tfiem out, drain, and put tliem into another 
■tew-pnn, with consomme, or veal gravy, 
and a bit of butter rolled in floiv. Let them 
•tew gently in this till they are flavored, of 
a good color, and the sauce pretty thick; 
then serve them. 

RAGOUT POWDER. Two ounces 
of truffles, two of dried mushrooms, the 
peel of a lemon, and tlie same of a Seville 
orange frafed, half a grated nutmeg, half an 
ounce of mace, tl)e same of pepper, and one 
drachm of cayenne, dry them all well before 
the fire, pound diem to a fine powder, add 
one ounce of salt, sift the powder through a 
sieve, and keep it it in a bottle for use. 

RAG9UT OF SNIPES. Pick Biit or 
eight snipes very nicely, but do not wash 
them ; take out the inside. Rofst the binls, 
and cut off all the meat fiH>m tlie breasts, in 
thin slices; pound the bones, legs, and 
backs, in a mortar, and put ihem into a 
stew-pan, with tlie juice of a lemon, a little 
flour, and some well-seasoned gravy; boil it 
till it be tliick, and well flavored with the 
eame, then strain it. Cut half a pound of 
bam into thin long slices, and heat it in a 
little butter, widi two minced shallots ; put 
it, with the breasts of the snipen, into the 
strained sauce, and let it boil. Potmd tlie. 
inside, or trail, with a little salt, spread it 
over thin bits of toasted bread, and hold 
over it a hot salamander. Put the ragout 
opon this, and pbce the ham round it. 

RAGOUT OF COLD VEAL. Either 
a neck, loin, or fillet of veal, will fuinish 
this excellent ragout wiUi a very little expense 
or trouble. Cut the veal into handsome cut- 
lets; put a piece of butter or clean dripping 
mto a frying-pan ; as soon as it is hot, flour 
and fry the veul of a light brown : take it 
out, and if you have no gravy ready> make 



some as follows: put a pint of boiliog 
into the frying-pan, give kt a boil up foe 9 
minute, and strain it into a basin while yov 
make some tliickeniug in the foHowine ii]a»> 
ner: put about an ounce of butter mto a 
stev'imn ; ns soon as it melts, mix with it as 
much flour aa will diy it up; stir it over the 
fire fi)r a few minutes and gradually add to it 
the gravy you made in the frying-pan; let 
tlicm simmer together for ten minutes (till 
Uioroushly incorporated) ; season it with pep- 
per, salt, a little mace, and a wine-glassful of 
mushroom ketchup or wine ; strain it throu^ 
a tanus to the meat, and stew very genUy 
till tlie meat is tborouglily warmed. If yow 
liaveany i^eady boiled bacon, cut it in slices^ 
and put it in to warm willi tiie metir 

RAMEQUINS. Take a quarter of a 
pound of Cheshire cheese, sccaped, tlie same 
quantity of Gloucester cheese, and beat theu» 
in a mortar, witli a quarter of a pound of 
fresh butter, the yolks of four egss, and the 
inside of a French roll, boiira in cream till 
soft; wlien all is beaten to a paste, mix it 
with the whites of the eggs, previously beat- 
en, and put the paste into small paper cases, 
made rather long than square, and put them 
to liake in a Dutch oven, till of a fine brown, 
Tliey sliould be served c|aitehot. You may, 
if you Uiink proper, add a glass of white wine* 

RASPBERRY CREAM. See Cream^ 

RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Take 

some good puff paste, roll it out, and spread 
raspbon*y jam over it ; roll it up, and boil it 
rather more than an hour ; cut it into fiver 
slices ; pour melted butter into the dish, grate- 
sugar round, and serve. 

RASPBERRY FRITTERS. Grate 
two Naples biscuits, or tliecrund) of a Frencb 
roll ; put to either a pint of boiling cream.. 
When this is cold, add to it tlie yolks of four 
eggi*, well beaten; beat ail well together 
with some raspberry juice ; drop this in very 
small quantities, into a pan of boiling lardp 
stick tliem with blanched almonds, sliced. 

RASPBERRY FLUMMERY. Mix 

witli half a pint of white wine vinegar one 
pound of raspberries, or one pound of pre> 
served raspben*ies, let it boil for three or 
four minutes, stirring it constanly; straia 
it througji a hair sieve; dissoke one ounce 
of isinghiss in half a pint of water; mix 
with it tliree-quarters of a pound of pounded 
sugar, add it to the strained raspberries 
stir it all weU togetlier; boil, and sti-ain it 
through a bit of musKn, and put it into ik 
shape. Turn it out when cold. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. See /</% 



REL 



173 



RICE 



RASPBERRY ICE. IVea the ioioe 
tram as manv raspberrries a** will yield a 
pound and a half; pat it into a glazed pan, 
and leave it for foor d^s. Then carefiillv 
raise the skin that has rormed on the top or 
ft, pour off die joioe into another vessel ; 
clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of wator, add the iuioe, and 
give them half a doxea boils; if not suffi- 
ciently red, put in a root of orkanet, which 
leave m till of the proper color; strain the 
preparation through a sieve ; when cold, put 
It into the 9abotiere, and freeze it. See lee, 

RASPBERRY SPONGE. Diaolve 
in a little water three-quarters of an ounce 
of isinglass, add to it three-quarters of a 
pint of cream, and the same proportion of 
new milk, noufy half a pint of rasfi b ei-r y 
jelly, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk it 
well one way till it becomes thick, and looks 
like sponge, then put it into an earthenware 
mould, and turn it out the next day. 



RASPBERRY TART. Une your 
dish with a nice puff paste, lay in sugar 
and fruit, put bars across, and bake. 

RASPBERRY TART with criam. 
Line a patty-pan with thin puff paste, lay 
in some raspberries, and strew some very 
finely sifted sugar over them; co^'er them 
with puff paste, and bake it; when done, 
cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, 
in which las been previously beaten the yolks 
of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a 
little sugar; when this is adde*! to the tart, 
return it to the oven five or six minntes. 

RED CABBAGE. Get a fine purple 
cabbage, take off the outside leaves, quarter 
it, take out the stalk, shred the leaves into 
a colander, sprii^le them with salt, let them 
remain till the morrow, drain them dry, put 
fSbem into a jar, and cover diem with the 
picicle for beet roots. 

RED MyLLET. Scrape 'and wash 
diem, fold them in buttered papor, lay diem 
into a dish, and bake them gently. The 
liquor that comes from them, boil with a 
piece of butter, dusted with fiour, a tea- 
spoonfiil of soy, two of essence of anchovy, 
and a little white wine. Serve the sauce in 
a butter-tureen, lliis fish is called the sea 
woodcock, fi*om being dressed with the 
inside. 

RELISH FOR CHOPS, &c. Pound 
fine an ounce of black pepper, and half an 
ounce of albpioe, with an ounce of salt, and 
half an ounce of scraped horseradish, and 
the same of eschalots, peeled and quartered; 
pnt these ingredients into a pint of inu rf iroom 

15» 



ketchup, or wabnt pickle, and let diem ftaep 
for a fortni^t, and then strain it. 

Ob$. — A tea-spoonfol or two of this ia 
gvmerally an acceptable addition, mixed 
with the gravT usually sent up for chops and 
steaks, or added to thick melted batter. 

REMOULADE, INDIAN. Pound die 
yolks often hard eggs to a paste, dilute it 
with eight spoonfols of oil, pot in one at a 
time, and continue pounding all the time; 
then add about a dozen allspice, a tea-spoon- 
fol of saffron, four or five spoonfob of vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole 
perfectly, strain it through a bolting-ck>th, 
and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce 
should be rather thick. 

RENNET. (1) As soon as die calf 
is killed, take out the stomach, and scour it 
inside and out with salt, after it is cleared 
of the curd always found in it. Let it drain 
for a few hours, after which sew it up with 
two lar^ handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it 
on a stick well salted; or keep it in the 
salt, wet, and soak a bit, which will do over 
and over by firesh water. 

RENNET. (2) Prepare die maw die 
same as in the above receipt: on the follow- 
ing day, put a handful of hawthorn-tope, a 
handful of sweet briar, a handful of rose- 
leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, 
four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- 
joram, and two large spoonfuls of salt, into 
two quarts of fi-esh sprin? water ; let them 
boil gently till the water is reduced to three 
pints, dien strain it off, and when only milk 
warm, pour it on die maw. Slice a lemon, 
and add to it ; in two days, strain it again, 
and pnt into bottles. Aromatic lierhs may 
be put in also ; take care that it is sufficient- 
ly salt. If the maw be arain salted for a 
few days, and dried as above, it will be 
quite as fit for use as before ; it should be 
kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity 
of the liquid is sufficient for turning. 



RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be 
of a good size, take off the thin skin, and 
cut them into lengths of four or five inches ; 
lay them in a dish, and put over a thin 
simp of suopr and water ; cover with another 
dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour 
upon a hot hearth, or do them in a block- 
tin saucepan. As soon as pold, make it 
into a tart ; when tender, the baking dw 
crust will be sufficient ; or you may cut tha 
stalks into little bits, the size of gooseberries, 
and make your tart the same as gooseberry 
tart. 

RICE BLANCMANGE. Put a tea- 
cupfiil of whole rice into die least watrr 



RICE 



IW 



RICE 



pOMiUe, tin k almost bants; then add half 
a pint of good milk or tliin cream, and bo3 
it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole 
time It is on the fire, thkt it may not bra*n; 
dip a shape in cold water, and ,do not dry 
it; put in the rice, and let it stand until 
quite cold, when it will come easily out of 
the shape. This dish is much araroved of ^ 
it is eaten with cream or custard, and pra- 
served fruita ; raspberries are \>eat. It should 
be made the day before it is wanted, that it 
may get firm. This blancmanse will eat 
much nicer, flavored with spices, lemon-peel, 
&c., and sweetened with a little loaf sugar, 
add it with the milk, and take out the lemon- 
peel before you put in the mould. 

RICE, TO BOIL. Wash the rice per- 
fectly clean, and put on one pound in two 
quarts of cold water; let it boil twenty min- 
utes, strain it through a sieve, and put it be- 
fore the fire ; shake it up with a fork evei-y 
now and then, to separate the grains, and 
make it quite dry. S<erve it hot. 

RICE CASSEROLE. Take a pound 
and a half of rice, wash it thoroughly in 
several waters (warm), and then put it 
into a saucepan, at least eiffbt inches in 
diameter; moisten it with stock, in this pro- 
portion ; if the rice lies an ii>ch thick, let 
the stock come two inches above it, and 
four lafllefiils of fowl skimmings ; place the 
saucepan on a hot stove; when the rice 
boils, set it on the side, an^ skim it; tlien 
put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil 
slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes ; stir it, 
let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty- 
five minutes, stir it a^ain ; if by this time 
the rice is perfectly soft, fake it off, but if 
not, add a little more liquid, and continue 
lx>iUng until it is so; pkice tlie saucepan 
a&ilant on the side of the stove that the &t 
may drain away and be taken off easily. 
As soon as the rice is lukewarm,, work it 
into a firm, smooth, paste, with a spatula; 
it can hardly be worked up too much, as 
every grain of rice ought to pa?s under pres- 
sure (if necessaiy, add more stock, a very 
little at a time). When the paste is thus 
thoroughly worked up, form your casserole 
of it, first layin? it in a heap, four or five 
inches high, and seven in diameter; do it 
with the hand as you would a raised crust; 
make the ornaments of the outer surfiice with 
the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for 
tiie purpose, taking care that the decorations 
be detached from the mass of rice, at least 
an inch; attention to this particular will 
not only add to the beauty of the form, but 
to the color also, as the raised parts will be 
lighily colored, while the ground will be 

auite white. When properly formed, mask 
ae whole sur&ce with clarified butter, and 



pinoe it in a hot oven for w^hoor aoda half, 
by which time it will be of a fine cleu* yA' 
k>w. Take off the top of your auBerole, 
clear away aQ the rice from the inside thai 
does not a(9iere to the crust (which ougbttp 
be very thin), and mix it with beckameUe, 
eapagyutle, or whatever other sauce may be 
pfoper, put it in a^in, and then fill your 
caeterohf with such ragouts as your (ancy 
may dictate; glaze the surface of the outer 
ornaments, and serve it. Water, with but' 
ter and salt, b frequently thought |M%ferable 
to the stock, &c., as the rice is thereby 
rendered mudi whiter. 

RICJE CASSOLETTES. The rice 
prepared as above may be put into smaller 
moulds, those called dariole moulds, and 
it should be quite cold before it is turned out, 
the mince or whatever is put inside being 
also cold ; it oHist be put m carefiilly, that 
none of it may mix with the rice, otlM9*wiae 
the cassolettes would break in the procese 
of frying; for the same i-eason, the drippins 
must be very hot. Frying is the best ana 
quickest method of doing them, but they may 
also be browned in the oven as the casserofr 
,f of rice. 

RICE CHEESE. Boil an ounce of 
rice, thick as has^ pudding, in rather \esm 
than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it hot 
on an ounce and a half of butter, the same 
Weight of sugar, mixing it well together ; lei 
it stand till cold ; then add one egg, and the 
yolk of another, and a little white wine. 

RICE CREAM. Mix some rice flour 
with half a glass of cold milk ; then by de- 
crees, add a pint more, also cold, and put 
It with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, set it on 
a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain 
and flavor it with orange-flower vrater, 
sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It 
should be stirred frequently whilst boiling; 
eggs may be added if you think proper. 

RICE CROQUETTES. Wash and 
scald a quarter of a pound of rice, put it 
into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, 
shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder- 
sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orange- 
flowers, an ounce of butter, and half a pint 
of milk; set these on the fire, and when the 
rice is quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs, 
stir them in over the £1%, but do not let them 
boil ; pour the preparation on a large tin at 
slab, spread it equally ; let it cool, and then 
divide it into small. equal parts; roll these 
into balls, dip them into an omelet, roll 
tliem in l)i^ead*crumbB, and fry them in a 
very hot pan. As soon as the croquette* 
are of a nice color, drain, 'sprinkle thca 
with powder-fiugar> and serve thna. 



i 



BICE 



176 



RICE 



RICE CUPS. SwMteo a |Mot of milk 
with pouoded loaf 0ogar, and boil it with a 
atick of cionainoD; stir in sifted groand 
rice till thick ; take it off the fire, and add 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs ; stir it 
again over the fire for two or three minutes, 
then pot it into tea-cups previously dipped in 
cold water; turn them out when cola, and 
pour round them a custard cream made with 
the yolks of th^ eggs ; place upon the rice a 
little red. currant jelly or i^aspberry jam. 
This dish may be served warm or cold ; if 
cold, raspberry cream or custard may be 
poured round it. 

RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT 
CREAM. One tea-spoonfijl of rice-flour, 
a pint of new milk, the volks of three ef^, 
a table-spoonful of ratana (or two or three 
laurel leaves boiled in), sugar to your taste; 
mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with 
the eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. 
Arrow-root is better tham rioe. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (1) Boil a pint of 
new milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and ciu- 
namon: then mix just sufficient rice-floor, 
with a little cold milk as will make the 
whole of a good consistence,, sweeten ac- 
cording to taste, flavor with a little pound- 
ed bitter almond ; boil it, taking care not to 
let it buin ; pom* it into a shape or pint ba- 
sin, taking out the spice. When the flum- 
mery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve 
with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or 
beiTe with sweet sauce in a boat. 

RICE FLUMMERY. (2) Boil in a quart 
of milk five ounces of sifted ground rice, half 
on ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded with two table-spoonfuls of rose- 
water; sweeten, and stir it till very tliick, 
so that the bottom of the sauc^Nin is seen, 
and then put it into a mould; when quite 
cold turn it out, stick over it sweet almonds, 
cut into straws, and pour round it some thick 
cream, and a little white wine and sugar 
mixed with it. 

RICE FRITTERS. Boil the rice in 
milk with some powder-sugar, orange-flower 
water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a 
little butter; when quite soft put to it a 
UaUon of yolks of eggs, pour it into a pan 
to cool. Make vour |M«paration into balls, 
about the size or an egg, dip them in egg, 
fi-y them, sprinkle them with sugar, and 
serve. 

RICE, GATEAU OF. Boil a quart 
of cream, add to it half a pound of powder- 
sugar, and three^iuarters of a pound of 
rice; when tBe latter is quite soft, dissolve 
in it a quarter of a pound of butter, and 



then pot in the gmted rind of a lemoo, le| 
it cool. When quite coM, stir in four ytAa 
and four whole eggs, more if the rioe be 
very thick ; butter a mould lightly, put the 
rioe into it, place tlie mould in hot ashes, so 
that it may be completely enveloped in and 
covered with them ; in mtlf an hour the fa» 
Uau will be done enoosh ; then turn it oiit« 
and serve. If you wish, yon can make a 
aovffie, by whipping the whites of six ens; 
like other §<ni^e$, m this case it should be 
served in a sil,ver dish. In puttinff the 
preparation into the mould, be careful not 
to nil it, as the rice would swell and run 
over the edge. 

RICE MILK. Allow an ounce of rioe 
for eadi person, wash it thoroughly in warm 
water ; set some milk on the fire, and when 
it boils, put in the rice; continue to boil it 
over a slow fire, stirring of^ for two or 
three hours; add salt or sugar according 
to taste, and cinnamon. 

RICE AND MILK. To every quart 
of good milk allow two ounces of rioe; 
wash it well in several waters ; pot it with 
the milk into a closely-covered sanoqian, 
and set it over a slow fire; when it boils 
take it off; let it stand till it be cold, and 
simmer it about an hour and a quarter be- 
fore sending it to table; and serve it in 
a tureen. 

RICE PANCAKES. Boil half a pound 
of rice in a small quantitv of water, until 
quite a jelly ; as soon as it is cold, mix it 
with a pint of cream, eight egg?, a little 
salt and nutmeg; make eig^t ounces of 
butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, 
adding to tlie whole as much butter as wilt 
make the batto' thick enough. They must 
be fried in as small a quantity of mrd aa 
possible. 

RICE PASTE. Rub tliree ounces of 
butter well, into half a pound of ground 
rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out 
with a little flour. 

RICE, PYRAMIDS OF. BoU some 
whole rice, make it up into the form of pyr- 
amids about three iqches high, or press it 
into small tin firames of that shape; take 
out part of the rice at the bottom, and fill the 
space with sausage, or rich forcemeat ; place 
them in a dish, take off the frame, and pour 
round them some rich brown 'gravy. 

RICE SAVOURY. Carefulty wash 
and pick some rice; set it to stew very 
gently in a little veal or rich mutton Inroth, 
add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and 
salt. When it is swelled it sliould not be 



Rid 



176 



ROLLS 



baihd to mash; put it to dry oo the rfuJlow 
end of a sieve before the me. You may 
•erve it dry, or put it in tlie middle of a 
dish, and pour the gravy round, havug fint 
heated it. 

RICE SNOW BALLS. Wash and 
pick half a pound of rice veiv clean, put it 
on in a ■anoepnn with plenty or water ; when 
it boib let it boil ten minutes, drain it on 
a sieve till it is quite dry, and tlien pare six 
apples, weighing two ounces and a half each. 
Divide the noe into six parcels, in separate 
cloths, put one apple in each, tie it loose, 
and boil it one hour; serve it with sugar 
and butter, or wine sauce. 

RICE SOUP. (1) Ckrefiilly blanch 
some well picked rice, then drain it on a 
sieve; put about a tea-cupful in the soup-pot, 
with one head of celery, and a quart of 
CotiMomme, and let it simmer by the side 
of the stove for three hours. If it thickens 
too much add more consomme, season with 
a little salt ; take Out the celei7, and send 
the soup to table. 

RICE SOUP. (2) Wash your rice 
well in warm water, changing it frequently ; 
then put the rice into a saucepan, with 
some good stock; set it on the fire, and 
leave it to swell ibr half an hour, but do 
not let it boil ; when the rice has imbibed 
all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to 
cover the rice, cover, and boil it slowly foi* 
two honra; in tlie meantime broil two or 
tliree slices of beef, and pepper and salt them 
well; when of a nice dark color, throw 
them into the rice soup, to which tliey will 
impart a rich flavor and a fine color. 

RICE, WHOLE IN A SHAPE. 
Wasli a lat^e tea-cupfiil of rice in several 
waters, put it into a saucepan with cold 
virater to cover it, and when it boils, add 
two cupfuls of rich milk, and boil it till it 
becomes dry; put it into a shape, and press 
it in well. When cold, tuin it out, and 
serve with preserved black currants, ras|)- 
berries, or any sort of firuil round it. 

RISSOLES. (1) CutpufTpaste witha 
round tin cutter, about thiee inches wide; 
have ready some cold fowl or veal, very 
finely minced, and seasoned with a little 
pounded garlic, grated lemon-peel, pepper, 
salt, and mace, the juice of half a lemon, 
and moistened with a little good gmvy. 
Put some of the mince upon a bit of the 
pUFte, wet the edges, and nv over it anoth- 
er bit ; press it ffently round the rim ; brush 
them all over with a well-beaten egg, and 
strew over them sifted bread crunilM; fry 
them a light bruwn in boiling clarifi<<*d beef 



dripping, and lay them upon the back of a 
sieve before the fiie to drain. Serve them 
in a napkin. The paste may be cut of the 
size of a large breakfast plate, then the 
mince put into the middle of it, the edges 
wet all round, and gathered up into the 
form of a pear, brushMl over with egg, and 
strewed over with bread crumbs. Served 
in a dish garnished with fried parsley. 

RISSOLES. (2) Mince very finely some 
cold roasted veal, and a small bit of nacon ; 
season it with grated nutmeg and salt; 
moisten it with cream, and make it up inro 
good-sized balls; dip them into the yolks 
of ens beaten up, and then into finely-grat- 
ed bread. Bake them in an oven, or fiy 
them of a light brown color in fresh drip- 
phig. Before serving, drain them before 
the fire on tlie back of a sieve. Gamidh 
with fried parsley. 

ROLLS. (1) Difisolve two ounces of bat- 
ter in one pint of new milk, and stir it into 
four pounds of flour, as also three tal;le-spoon- 
fuls of yeast, a tea-spoonful of salt, and the 
well-beaten whites of two egsB ; cover tlie 
pan with a warmed towel, and set it befbi-e 
the fire to rise for half nn hour, tlien woik it 
one wav for fifteen minutes; form it into 
rolls, place them upon tins, and let them 
riHC for ten minutes before putting them into 
tlie oven. 

ROLLS. (2) Warm an ounce of biMter i'l 
half a pint of milk, then add a spoonfiil and 
a half of yeast of small beer, and a little tiali. 
Put two pounds of flour into a pun, an«l put 
in the above. Set it to rise for an hotii ; 
knead it well; make it into seven rolls, and 
bake tliem in a quick oven. 

ROLLS, FRENCH. (1) Mix rather more 
than an ounce of coarse salt widi eight 
pounds of sifted flour ; make a hole in llie 
middle, and pour in about half a pint of 
goo<I yeast, the well-beaten whites of four 
e^s, and as much new milk warmed iis 
will mix it to a middling stiflioess; clap 
and work it down one way for half an hour, 
but do not knead it; cover it with a warm- 
ed towel, and let it rise before the fire for 
half an hour; take oflT the sur&ce, which 
soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be 
made into a roll ; work and clap the dough, 
form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and 
let them rise for ten minutes; bake them 
in a quick oven. 

ROU^S, FRENCH. <2) Ruboneoimee 
of butter into a potmd of flnur; then add to it 
one egg beaten, a little yeast \Jxnt is not bit- 
ter, and a sutficient quantity of milk, to make 
a dough of imjderate stifihess. Beat it well. 



ROS 



177 



SAO 



butdoQOlkMidit; let it rin» and bake on 
tin*. 

ROLLS, TRENCH. (8) Wann three 
spoonfuls of milk, and the same quantity of 
water, with a bit of batter the eize of a wal- 
nut, put it to two spoonfub of thick yeast; 
put this into the middle of rather anare than 
a quart of flour, mix the whole together to 
the consistence of a batter-poddiiw, addii^ 
mure flour if neoesaaiy, to ouike it the proper 
thickness ; strew a little flour over it frun 
the sides, and if the weather is cokl, set it at 
a little distance from the fire; do this three 
hours before it is put into the oven ; when it 
breaks a ^pod deal through the flour and ris- 
es, work It into a light paste with more warm 
milk and water; let it lie till within a quar- 
ter of an hour of setting into the oven, then 
work them lightly into roUs ; flour a tin, and 
drop them on, h&uidle them as little as possi- 
ble; set them heSore the fire. About twenty 
minutes will be sufficient time to bake them ; 
put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the 
rolls. 

ROLLS, SHORT, HOT. Dry before 
the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make 
three pen^ynnolb, or kirger if ^ou like; add 
to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two 
spioonfuls of yeast, and a little warm milk ; 
make it into a light dough, let it stand by 
the fire all night. Bake the rolls in a quick 
oven. 

ROSE-WATER, double-distilled. 
The rose generallv choeen for this purpose, 
is the common paie (single or double) rose, 
but die white rose is best of all. Grather the 
flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun- 
ru« ; take out the calix, and separate the 
leaves, potind than in a marble mortar to a 
paste, auid leave them five <n* six hours in the 
mortar; then pot them into a large ck>se 
cloth, and let two persons wring it with all 
their stcength. Having by this operation ob- 
tained four pounds of juice, innwe in it an 
equal weight of firesh rose-leaves for twenty- 
four hours; at the end of that time put the 
whole into the alembic, which place in a 
sand-bath, and distil it according to rule. 
(See DuHUing). When you have collects 
ed about an ounce of the water, unlute the 
receiver, and if that which issues from the 
still is as odoriferous as that which proceeded 
first, continue the operation ; but if not, col- 
lect it into another vessel, as this second 
water is only single, and must be kept sepa- 
rate from the first, which is the EsgenUal 
IVaUr. Should the second water have an 
unpleasant smell (caused by the application 
of too much heat), expose it to the sun for 
a few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. 
The utmost cai*e is necessary in distilling this 



andaDodMroderifenmssobstBoQes. Ailill 
more powefiiil o ss cnoe than the above may be 
prooired by the feDowing method:— Giathev 
as many roses as willafibrd thirty pooods of 
leaves, pound these with four poms of aak; 
when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in 
layen with salt between each, prev then 
closely, cork them tight, leave the vessel 
twelve days, and then distil as usual. 

ROSE-WATER, SINGLE. Put torn 

pounds of rose-leaves into a pan, with three 
quarts of river water, and leave it four-and- 
twenty hours ; then put it into a metal alem- 
bic, and distil from it as nnch odoriferooi 
water as you can, being sure to stw the mo- 
ment you observe the phlegm. Take off 
the alembic, tlirow away its contents, and 
rinse it out well ; after this, fill it to two- 
thirds with fresh-gathered rose-leaves, on 
which pour the above drawn rose-walar; 
dktil this, and when yon have fxoeured aa 
much good rose-water as it will yield, let the 
fire go out gradually. 

ROUX. Put a pound of batter ipin a 
saucepan, shake it about till dissolved, when 
add a sufficient quantity of sifted flour, to 
make it the consistence of thick bouilH; 
then set it over a fierce stove, and stir it un- 
til it b^ins to take ookNT, when make agood 
fire of cinders, phuse the roux on it, and Ift 
it stand to increase in ookNr; it ou^t to be 
of a clear light brown. Set it by, and use it 
as occasion may require. 

ROUX, WHITE. Prepare your butter 
and^^fioor as above, pboe it on a moderately 
heated stove, stirring it constantlv till very 
hot; be carefiil that it does not takeoofor at 
all, for the whiter it is the more desirable. 

RUSKS. To three pounds and a half 
of flour allow half a pound of butter, the 
same quantity of pounded loaf suear, and 
five spoonfiib of yeast ; mix the flour and 
sugar together; melt the butter in two pints 
and a half of milk, and mix it with the flour, 
then add the yeast and one beaten egg; 
work it well together; cover it, and, let it 
stand for five or six hours; take it out of 
the pan, and form it into little rolls; place 
them upon tins, and let them rise for about 
an hour; bake them in a quick oven, and 
when they become brown, cut them through 
tiie middle or into three slices; put than 
again into the oven to brown and crisp. 



S. 

SAGE GARGLE. Boil ouickly in e 
pint of water, a large haodfiil or sage leaves S 



SAL 



178 



SAL 



cover the pen doidy, and when redooed to 
one-half, ttrain it; when cold, mix it with 
the nme quantity of Port wine and of vine- 
gar; sweeten it with honey, or with browm 
sugar. The decoction of rage may be used 
alone as a gargle, or with vinegar and hon- 
ey, without tm Port wine; or gargle with 
vinegar and water. 

SAGO. Let it soak for an hour in cold 
water, to take off the earth v taste; pour 
that off, and wash it well ; tnen add more 
watar, and simmer gently until the berries 
are clear, with lemoiHpeel and spice. Add 
wine and sugar according to taste, and boil 
all up together. 

SAGO MILK. When weU cleansed, 
boil it slowly with new milk. A small 
quantity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, 
it swells so much, and when done, it should 
he reduced to about a pint. It requires 
neither sugar nor flavoring. 

SALAD MIXTURE. Endeavor to have 
your sakMl herbs as fi«sh as possible; if you 
suspect they are not ** morninff ||athered," 
thqr will be much refieshed by T^ing an hour 
or two in spring water; then carefuHy waA 
and pick them, and trim off all the worm- 
eaten, slimy, cank^tKl, dry leaves; and, 
after wadiing, let them remain awhile in 
the colander to drain: lastly, swing them 
gently in a clean napkin: when properly 
picked and cut, arrange them in the ralad 
dish, mix the sauce in a soup-plate, and put 
it into an ingredient bottle, or pour it down 
the side of the salad dish, and don't stir it 
up till the mouths are ready for it. 

If the herbs be young, fr^ gathered, trim- 
med neatly, and draimid dry, and tbe sauce- 
maker ponders patiently over the following 
directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame 
of being a very accomplished salad-dresser. 

Boil a ooopie of egm for twelve minutes, 
and put them in a basm of cold water for a 
few minutes; the yolks must be quite cold 
and hard, or tliey will nut incorporate with 
the ingredients. Rub them through a sieve 
with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a 
table-spoonful of water, or fine double cream ; 
then add two table-spoonfiils of oil or melted 
butter; when these are well mixed, add, by 
degrees, a tea-epoonfiil of salt, or powdered 
lump sugar, and tbe same of made mustard: 
vrhea these are smootlily united, add very 
gradually three table-spoonfuls of vinegar; 
rub it with the other ingi-edients till Uior- 
ougtily incorporated with them; cut up the 
white of the egg, and garnish the top of the 
salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the 
bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the 
sniad till it is to be eaten: we recommend 
the eaters to be mindfiil of the duty of masti- 



cation, without the dne ueribr ma nce of 
which, all undressed v^etablee are trobbfe- 
some company for the principal viscera, and 
some are even dangerously indigestiUe. 

SALAD, WINTER. Wash very clean 
one or two heads (^ endive, stxne beads of 
celery, some mustard and cresses; cut them 
all small, add a little shredded red cabbage, 
some slices of boiled beet-root, an onion, if 
the flavor is not disliked ; mix them toeether 
with salad sauce. In spring, add radishes, 
and also garnish the dish with them. 

SALINE DRAUGHT. Salt of worm- 
wood, twenty grains; lonon-juice, a taUe- 
spoonful; water, two table-spoonfots ; mag- 
nesia, twenty grains ; mix it in a tumbler, 
together with a little pounded sugar, and take 
two or three of these in the day. 

SALLY LUNNS. Take three quarts 
of dried flour, half a cupflil of yeast, a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient 
'quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a little salt: make tnese in- 
FredientB into a light dough, let it stand be- 
fore tlie fire (covwed), w an hour to rise*, 
and bake in a quick oven. Tbe above nraiy 
be made into small cakes. 

SALMON. When salmon is fresh and 
good, the gills and fleah are of a bri^t red, 
the scales clear, and the whole fish is stiff. 
When just killed, there is a whiteness be- 
tween the flakes, which gives great fimmeaB ; 
by keeping, this mehs down, and tbe fish 
beccMnes richer. 

SALMON, BAKED. Clean and cot 
the fish into slices, put it in a dish, and make 
the following sauce: — Melt an ounce of but- 
ter, kneaded in flour, in a pint and a half 
of gravy, with two fflasses of Port wine, two 
teble-spoonfiib of ketchup, two anchoviee, 
and a little cayenne. When the anchovies 
are dissolved, strain and pour the sauce ov&r 
the fish, tie a sheet of buttered paper over 
the dish, and send it to the oven. 

SALMON, BOILED. Put on a fish- 
kettle, with spring water enough to well 
covei' the salmon you are going to drras, or 
the sahnon will neither look nor taste well : 
(boil the liver in a separate nnoqian). 
When the water boils, put in a liandhil of 
salt; take off tbe scum as socm as it rises; 
have the fish well washed ; put it in, and if 
it is thick, let it boil very gently. Salmon 
requires almost as much boiling as meat; 
about a quarter of an hour to a pound of 
fish : but practice only can perfect the cook 
in dreffliiig salmon. A quarter of a salmn«i 
will take almost as kmg boiling as half a 



SAL 



179 



SAL 



one: TOO mort ooosider the thkkiMiiB, not the 
weight: ten pounds c^fine full-growo salmon 
will he 4oQe in an hour and a quarter. Lob- 
ster Sanoe. 

06«.>-Tbe thinnest part of the fish is 
the fottest; and if you luve a " p[rand gour- 
mand" at tahle, ask him if he is fiir thick 
or thin. 

N. B. — li yoQ have any left, put it into 
a pie-dish, ana cover it with an equal por* 
tion of vinegar and pump water, and a little 
aah: it will be ready in three days. 

SALMON, BOILED IN WINE. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, scHue slices of ba- 
con, fat and lean together, a pound of yeal 
cot thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put 
these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece 
of fresh salmon cut out of tlie middle, then 
pour in just as much water as will cover it, 
and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the 
salmon is almost done, thai pour the water 
away, and put in two quarts of white wiue, 
with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and 
svi^eet marjoram, picked ftom the s^lks ; let 
than stew sently, and while they are doing, 
cot a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the 
slices across, and stew them in a saucepan, 
with some rich gravy ; when they are done 
enough, add a quarter of a pint of essence 
of b^ ; take up the salmon, by it on a dish, 
and serve with the sweetbread, and its sauce 
poured ovor. 

SALMON, BOILED, Berwick re- 
GEIPT. The tail of the salmon is first cut 
off near and below the last fin, the fish is 
then cut up the back, keeping the bone on 
one side, and then C4it up into pieces of half 
a pound each, the blood well washed out of 
the fish in cold water, but the scales not to be 
removed ; a pickle to be made of salt and 
water, stix>ng enough to bear an egg^ and, 
when boiline, the fish to be put in, and boil- 
ed ver^ quiddy for fifteen mmutes. During 
the boiling, Uie scum to be taken off carefully 
as Koon as it rises. Sauces ; — bbster, melt- 
ed butter, and anchovy sauce. 

N. B. — ^The hardest water is preferable 
for boiling salmon. 

; SALMON, BOILED, receipt bt an 
Aberdeen FISHERMAN. When the wa- 
ter is hot, put salt into it, and stir it well ; 
taste it; when sti-ong enough to force you to 
cast it from ^ur mouth, it will do; when 
the water boils put in the fish ; when it boils 
acain, give twenty minutes fi>r a salmon, and 
sixteen for a gristle. When salmon is cut 
in slices an inch thick, let them boil ten 
minutes. Serve with it a sauce tureen of 
the liquor the fish was boiled in. 

SALMON STEAI^ BROILED. Gut 



the steaks fixnn the thickest parts of the fisft 
nearly an inch thick ; butter pieces of white 
paper; foU the steaks in them, and broil 
them over a sbw fire lor ten or twelve minutes. 
Take off the paper; serve and garnish with 
plenty of firied parsley* Dressed in this 
way, they may be pot round sahnon boiled, 
in slices. Sauces; — smelted butter, k)bster, 
or shrimp sauce. 

SALMON, FRESH BROILED. Clean 
the salmon well, and cut it into slices about 
an inch and a half thick ; dry it thoroughly 
in a clean ck>th ; nib it over with sweet oil, 
or thick melted butter, and sprinkle a little 
salt over it: pot your gridiron over a clear 
fire, at some distance; when it is hot, wipe 
it clean ; rub it with sweet oil or lard ; lay 
the salmon on, and when it is done on one 
side, turn it gently and broil the other. An- 
chovy sauce, &c. 

Oos.— An oven does them best. 

SALMON CAVEACH. Boil in two 
quarts of vinegar three heads of shallots, half 
an ounce of whole black pepper, three cbves, 
two blades of mace, ana a little salt. Fry 
the fish, cut in slices, of a li^t brown color 
in fine oil, or clarified drippmg; put them, 
when cold, into a pan, pour over the vinegar 
and spices, and put on the top eight or ten 
spoonfuls of oil. Soles may be done in this 
way, only lay over them sliced onions instead 
of shsdlots. 

SALMON, DRIED KIPPER. Cut the 
fish up the bad(, and take out the bone ; wipe 
it very clean with a cloth ; score it, and put a 
handful of salt on each side, and let it lie 
for tliree days; then hang it up to dry, and 
it will be fit for use in two days, and eats 
well with a little pepper put ovei' it, and 
broiled. 

SALMON, DRIED, TO DRESS. Lay 

it in soak for two or tliree hours, then broil 
it, shaking a little pepper over it. Dried 
salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only 
just warmed tlirouffh ; egg sauce ^Tnd mashed . 
potatoes are ususdly served with it; or it 
may be boiled, especially the bit next the 
head. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (1) Cut a 
salmon into two or three pieces, put it in 
a fish-kettle, 'and set it on the fire with a 
sufficient quantity of water to cover it, and 
plenty of salt; bs soon as it begins to boil, 
set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; 
then take it off the fire, and let it stand in 
the liquor until cold, take it out, lay the 
pieces close togeth^' in a tob to pickle, and 
over them five anchovies, a small quantity 
of pounded saltpetre, and a quarter of a 



SAT. 



180 



dAL 



fTint dt iwmt oil; being diw prepared, pat 
tlie top of the lalmon liquor into a Btewpan, 
to which add the same quantity of white 
wine vinegar; put it on the fhe to skim, 
and boit it for tveo or diree minutes ; take it 
off, and* let it eool. When cold, pour it 
over the salmon and ^ it down ; in three 
days tnnn it, and in a week's time it will 
he fit for use; this is merely In a smull way; 
a great (quantity being done at once, requires 
neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnisiied 
with fennel. 

SALMON, PICKLED. (2) Cot the sal- 
mon into pieces ; boil it as for eating, arid la^ 
it on a di^ cloth till the following day; boil 
two quarts of good vinegar with one of the li- 
quor the fish was boiled in, one ounce of whole 
bbck pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and 
foor blaoes of mace. Pat the salmon into 
something deep, and pour over it the prepar- 
ed vin^ar when cold. A little sweet oil 
put upon tlie top will make it keep a twelve^ 
moDtb, 

SALMON, PICKLED. (8) Tonquait 
of liquor the &h has been boiled in, put rath- 
er more than half a pint of good vinegar, and 
half an ounce of whole black pepper ; boil 
it, and when it is cold pour it over the fish, 
previously laid in a deep dish. 

SALM9N, PICKLED, TO DRESS. 

Soak a piece of pickled salmon all night 
in pump-water; then lay it on a fish-plate, 
and put it in a stewpan, with three spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, a little mace, some whole 
pepper in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- 
meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon-peel, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in 
flour ; cover the stewpan very ckise, and let 
it simmer over a gentle fire lor a quarter of 
an hour; then take up the salmon, lay it in 
H dish, keep it hot befure the fire; let the 
sauce boil till it is of a proper consistence; 
take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, 
and serve the sauce over tlie fish. 

SALMON, POTTED. Take off tlie 
head ; cut the salmon in thick slices; wipe it 
dry, but do not wash it ; pound half an ounce of 
nutmeg, 'mace, and cloves, the least part of 
cloves, half announce of white pepper, and 
some salt; chop fine one onion, six bay- 
leaves, and six anchovies ; season each slice ; 
Cit it into a pan, with very thin slices of 
itter between each layer; hake it, when 
well done; drain off the butter, and, when 
cok), pour ov6r some clarified butter. 

SALMON, TO SALT. Cut the fish up 
the back, and cut out the bone; wipe it 
clean, and sprinkle it with salt ; let it lay a 



night to drain ofr the Ikjudi*; inpe it dry; 
mb on it two or three ounces of pocmded 
saltpetre; cut it into pieces; niudk it ckxie ia 
a pot with a thick layer of salt between each 
layer of fi^. If the brine does not rise ia 
a few days, boil a strong one, and poor it, 
when cold, upon the sahnoo, ^hich must 
always be covered with it. 

SALMON, STEW. Clean add scrape 
the fish ; cut it into slices, and slew it in a 
rich white gravy. A IKtle before aervii^, 
add two table-spoonfiils of sov, one of es- 
sence of anchovy, and a Ihtle salt, some 
cho{^)ed parsley and chives. 

SALMON, SPICED. Mix toeether, m 
the proportion of one third of sah-and- water to 
one pint of vinegar, one ounce of whole black 
pepper, and one ounce of cinnamon. Oa 
the salmon into slices, and boil it in this ; 
when cold, pack it close in a pan, and poor 
over it the liquor it was boileo in, with the 
spices, so as to cover it completely ; cover 
the pan closely, to exclude the air. 

SALMONj MACKEREL, SPRATS, 
HERRINGS, &c. pickled. Cut the fisli 
into pn)per pieces ; do not takeoff the scales ; 
make a brine strong enough to bear an eg;^, 
in which boil the fish ; it must be boiled in 
only just liquor enough to cover it; do not 
overboil it. When the fish is boiled, lay it 
slantingly to drain off all the liquor ; wlien 
cold, pick it close in the kits, and fill them 
up with equal parts of the liquor the salmon 
was boiled in (having first well skimmed it), 
and liest vinegar ; let tliem rest for a day ; 
fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with 
a cooper's adz, until the kit will receive no 
more ; then head them down as close as pos- 
sible. 

Ob». — ^This is in the finest condition 
when fi-esh. Some sprigs of fresh-gatliercd 
young fennel are the accompaniments. 

N. B. — The three indispensable marks 
of tlie goodness of pickled salmon are, 1st, 
The brightness of the scales, and their stick- 
ing fast to the skin ; 2dly, The firmness of 
the flesh ; and, Sdly, Its fine, pale-red rose 
color. Without lliese it is not fit to eat, 
and was either stale before it was pickled, 
or has been kept too long afler. 

The above was given us as the actual 
practice of those who pickle it for the Lon- 
don market. 

N. B. — Pickled salmon warmed by steam, 
or in its pickle liquor, is a fovorite dish at 
Newcastle. 

SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, 
lemon-peel, and sugar, together; then mix 
with a small quantity of tlie powder, pre- 
vioiisly rubbed smooth, in a little cold water; 



SAL 



181 



SAN 



itir the whole wdl togeciier, wad bml for a 
lew muMiCeBa 

SALPICON. Tlue » a mixtore compo- 
sed of varuNiB artides, such as sweetbreads, 
fkt Irren, tongue, ham, dnnpignons, truf- 
fles, Ice., previoasly dressed, cut mto dice, 
and cooked in some rich sauce, and seamned 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shallots, 
sweet heriM, and a little butter ; take care 
that all the articles Mne sufficiently boiled be- 
fere thev are cut up. Many thii^, such as 
beef-pante, fowl, oocks'-combs, indeed al- 
most any artide you please, may be added to 
the above. 

SALT, Is as Phitarch calls it, sauce 
finr sauce. 

Common salt is more relishing than bas- 
ket salt; it i^ould be prepared mr the table 
by drying it in a Dutch oven before the fire ; 
then put it on a clean paper, and roll it with 
a rolling pin ; if you pound it in a moilar 
till it is quite fine, it will look as well as 
basket salt. 

\* Select for table-use the lumps of 
salt. 

Ob». — ^Yonr salt4x>x must have a close 
cover, and be kept in a dry place. 

SALT, SPICED. Take four drachms 
of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two 
of whi^ pepper, two of allspice, two of 
mace, two of hay-leaf, two of basWj and 
two of thyme (tliene three latter articles 
should be dried in an oven). Put these all 
into a mortar, and pound them to an impal- 
pable powder, and sift it. Take a pound 
of fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an 
oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possible ; 
sift, and mix with it an ounce of thtf above 
mentioned spices; amalgamate them thor- 
oughly, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, 
which will shut perfectly close. Use it in 
the following proportion: four drachms to a 
pound of boned veal. 

SALTING MEAT. In the nimmer 
season, especially, meat is frequently spoiled 
liy the cook forgetting to take out the ker- 
nels ; one in the udder of a round of beef, in 
the fat in the middle of the round, those 
about the thick end of the flank, &c.: if 
diese are not taken out, all the salt in the 
world will not keep the meat. 

The art of salting meat is to rub in the 
salt thoroughly and evenly into every pdrt, 
and to fill all the holes full of salt where the 
kernels were taken out, and where the butch- 
er's skewers were. 

A round of beef of 25 poimds will take a 
pound and a half of salt to be rubbed in all 
at first, and requires to be tmtied and rubbed 
every day with the brine; it will be ready 

16 



for drasiiiig in four or five days, if yea do 
not wish it ?eiy Mdt. 

In summer, the sooner aacat is sallied aAor 
it is killed, the better; and care must faa 
taken to defend it finm the flies. 

In tstfi^er, it will eat the shorter and 
tendorer, if kept a few days (aoocNrding to 
the temperature of the weather) until its 
fibre has become short and tender^ as these 
chanses do mrt take place after it has been 
acted upon by the salt. 

In finosty weather, take care the meat is 
not firosen, and warm the salt in a firying- 
pan. The extremes of heat and cold are 
equally unfavorable for the process of salting. 
In the former, the naeat (Ganges before the 
salt can aflfect it: in the hitter, it is so har- 
dened, and its juices are so congealed, that 
the salt cannot penetrate it. 

If you wish it red, rub it first with salt- 
p^re, in llie proportion of half an ounce, and 
the like quantity of moist sugar, to a pound 
of common salt. 

You may impregnate meat with a very 
agreeable vegetable flavor, by pounding some 
sweet herbs, and an onion with the salt. 
You may make it still more relishing by ad- 
ding a little ZEST or »aoory tpice. 

SALT PORK, BOILED. See Bacon. 

SAMPHIRE, TO DRY, OR PRE- 
SERVE. Take it in bunches as it grows ; 
set a large deep stewpan full of water on tlie 
fir&; as soon as it boils, throw in a little 
salt, and pot in tlie samphire; when it looks 
of a fine green, remove the pan directly from 
the file, and take out the samphire with a 
fork ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, 
lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well 
over it, next day turn (hero on a sie^'e, and 
strew it again with sugar, keep turning dai- 
ly until it is dry ; take care the stove is not 
too hot. 

SAMPHIRE, TO PICKLE. Lay some 
samphire tliat is green in a pan, sprinkle 
over it two or three handfuls of salt, and 
cover it with spring water, and let it lay for 
twenty-four hours ; then put it into a ^ige 
brass saucepan ; throw in a handfiil of salt ; 
cover the pan close, and set it over a very 
slow fire ; let it stand till it is quite green, 
and crisp; then take it ofl; for if it becomes 
soft it is spoiled ; put it into a jar, cover it 
close, and when it is cold, tie it down. 

SANDWICHES FOR TRAVEL- 
LERS. Spread butter, very thinly, upon 
the upper pait of a stale loaf of bread cut 
very smooth, and tlien cut off the slice ; now 
cut off another thin slice, but spread it with 
butter on the under side, without which pre- 
caution tlie two slices of bread will not fit 



SAUCES 



182 



SAUCES 



Nest take ■ome cold beef, or 
bam, and cut it ioto very minute partides. 
Sprinkle then thickly over the butter, and, 
having added a little murtard, put the slices 
face to fiu», and press them together. Last- 
ly, cut tlie whole into four equal portions, 
*each of which is to be wrapped in a separate 
pieoe of paper. 

SANDWICHES. (1) Cut some bread 
into thin slices, pare off the crust, and spread 
a little butter on them ; cut them nicely into 
oblong pieces, put between «ach some bits 
of fowl, and then thin bits o( ham, both nice- 
ly trimmed ; add a little mustard and salt. 
Any cold roasted or potted meat may be used. 
Serve them for luncheon, gamiraed with 
curled parsley. 

SANDWICHES, (2) Properly prepar- 
ed, are an elegant and convenient luncheon 
or supper, but have got out of fiushion, from 
the bod manner in which they are common- 
ly made : to cut the bread neatly with a 
sharp knife seems to be consid^Wf the only 
essential, and the lining is composed of any 
oflal odds and ends, that cannot be sent to 
table in any other form. Whatever is used 
must be carefully trimmed from every bit of 
skin, gristle, &c. and nothing introduced 
Init wliat you are absolutely certain will be 
acceptable to the moudi. 

SANDWICHES, CAKE. Cat a sponge 
C4ike, a few days old, as for bread sand- 
H it'lips, and BiMpead strawbeny jam or cur- 
I'ant jelly over them. 

SAUCE. (1) Few things require more 
care than making sauces, as most of them 
should be stirred constantly, the wliok; atten- 
tion shouki be directed to tliem ; tlie better 
way therefore, is to prepare tlie sanceH befttre 
cooking those articles whicli demand equal 
care; diey may be kept hot in tlie bain- 
marie. 

Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, 
flight never to boil. 

The thickest stewpans sliould be used for 
making sauces, and woodennspoons used 
for stimng tliem. 

SAUCE. (2) Mix together a pint of 
vinegar, two shallots or heads of garlic, a 
tea-6po<niful of cayenne, three large table- 
spoonfuls of Indian soy or mushroom ketch- 
up, and two of walnut pickle. Let it stand 
a week, shaking it 'daily; strain, and bottle 
it for use. 

FOR ANY SORT OF MEAT. 



Boil and strain three table-eptionfuls of ^ra- 
vy, two of vinegar, a blade of mace, a little 
pefiper, salt, and a lai'ge sliced onion. 



— I — -- ANCHOVY. Pound three an- 
chovies in a mortar with a little bit </ but- 
ter; rub it through a douUe hair sieve with 
the back of a woodm spomi, and stir it into 
almost half a pint of meked butter ; or stir 
in a taUe-qxMniiil of essence of anchovy. 
To the above, many cooks add femon^ice 
and cayenne. 



APPLE. (1) Pare, core, and 

slice some a|^>leB ; boil them in water, with 
a bit of lemon-peel ; when tender, mash them ; 
add to them a bit of butter the size of a 
walnut, and some brown sugar. Heat, and 
serve in a sauce-Uireen. 



APPLE. (2) Pare and core 

three goodnsised baking apples; put them 
into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with two 
table-spoonfiils of cold water; cover the 
saucepan ckiee, and set it on a trivet over a 
sbw fire a couple of hours before dinner 
(some apples will take a long time stewing, 
odiers will be ready in a quarter of an hour): 
when the apples are done enougli, pour off 
the water, let diem stand a few minutes to 
get dry ; then beat them up with a fork, 
with a bit of butter about as big as a nut- 
meg, and a tea-spoonlul of powdered sugar. 

N. B.— Some add leroon-ped, grated, or 
minced fine, or boil a bit with the apples. 



ATTELETS. Take of finely- 



minced parsley, mushrooms, and shallots, a 
table^poonfiil each ; fiy them with a little but- 
ter, and tlien dredge in a little fiour ; moisten 
die mixture with some good stock, season 
it with pepper and salt, and boil it till it 
begins to thicken ; then take it off die fire, 
and add die weli-lieaten yolks of two or 
tiiree eggs. Stir it well aU the time it is 
making. 



BEEF.GRAVY, or Brown 



Sauce for Ragouty Game, Poultry, 
FUht fyc. If you want gravy immediately, 
see Potato Soup, or Gkuce. If you have 
time enough, furnish a thick and well-tinned 
steWpan widi a thin slice of sah pork, or an 
ounce of butter, and a middling-sized onion ; 
on thia lay a pound of nice, juicy gravy 
beef, (as the object in making gravy \» to 
extract the nutritious succulence i>f die meat, 
it must be beaten to comminute the contain- 
ing vessels, and scored to augment the sur- 
face to the action of the water) ; cover the 
stewpan, and set it on a slow fire; wlieii 
the meat begins to brown, turn it about, 
and let it get slightly Uvwned (but take 
care it is not at all burned) : dien pour in a 
pint and a half of boiling water ; set the 
pan on die fire; wlien it boils, carefully 
catch die scum, and then put in a crust of 
bread toasted browu (don't burn it) a 



8AUCKS 



183 



SAUCES 



iiptift oi WiDtw wvofy* or wmon drams snd 
paruey^^ it^ of thio cut lemon-peea, a dox- 
en benribi of allspice, and a doaen of black 
pepper. Cover the atewpan close, and let 
It Btew Terjr gentfy fiN" about two hours, 
then strain it urough a sieve into a basin. 
Now, if yoa wish to thicken it, set a clean 
stewpan over a slow fire, with about an 
ounce of butter in it; when it is melted, 
dredge to it, by degrees, as much floor as 
will dry it np, stirring them well together ; 
when tborou^Iy mixed, poor in a little 
gravy — stir it wdl together, and add the re- 
mainder by d^rrees; set it over the fire, let 
it simmer gently for fifteen minutes kmger, 
skim off the fiit, &c. as it rises; when it is 
about as thick as cream, soueexe it tlvough 
a tamis or fine sieve— ana you will have a 
fine rich Brown Sauce, at a very moderate 
expense, and without nnich trouble. 



FOR BOILED BEEF. Mince 

a large onion, parboil it, and drain off the 
water; put the onion into a sauoenpan, with 
a taUe-spoonfiil of finely-chopped parsley, 
some good gravy, and one ounce of butter 
dredged with a little floor. Let it boil 
near^ ten nunutes, and add a spoonfiil of 
cut capers, which must be thoroughly heat- 
ed before the sauce is served. 



BROWN. Take a pound or 

two of steaks, two oc three pounds of veal, 
some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, 
put all these into a saucepan with a glass 
of wat^, and set it on a brisk fire ; when 
scarcely anv moisture remains, put it on a 
sibw fire, that the jelly may take color with- 
out burning; and as soon as it is brown, 
moisten it with stock (or water), add a 
bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay- 
leaves, two cloves, and some champignons, 
salt it well,, and set it on the fire for three 
boors, then strain ; dilute a little roux with 
your liquor, and boil it an hour over a gentle 
fire, take off all the fiit, and run it through 
a bolting. 

BONNE BOUCHE, FOR 

Goose, Duck, or roast Pork. A^^ 
a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a salt-spo^^ 
fill of salt, and a few grains of cawenne, in a 
large wine-glassfiil of claret or Port wine ; 
pour it into the goose by a slit in the aprbn 
just before serving up ; or, as all the com- 
pany may not like it, stir it into a quarter 
of a pint of thick melted butter, or thicken- 
ed gravy, and send it up in a boat. A fa- 
vorite relish for roast pork or geese, &c. is, 
two ounces of leaves of sreen sage, an ounce 
of fi'esh lemon-peel pared thin, same of salt, 
minced eschalot, and half a drachm of 
cayenne pepper, ditto of ciyic acid, steeped 
for fo fortnight in a pint of^claret; shake it 



im well every day; let it stand a day Jo set- 
tle, and decant tne clear liquor; liottle it, 
and cork it close ; a table-spoonfiil or mora 
in a quarter pint of gravy, or mdted butter. 



BREAD. (1) Boil, in a pint of 

water, the crumb of a French roll or of a 
slice o( bread, a minced onion, and some 
whole pepper. When the onion is tender, 
drain off the water, pick out the peppo*- 
ccNrns, and rub the bread through a sieve; 
then pot it into a saucepan, with a gill of 
cream, a bit of butter, and a little salt. 
Stir it till it boil, and serve it in a sauce- 
tureen. 



BREAD. (2) Mix, innidier 

more than half a pint of milk or water, a 
slice of srated bread, a dessert-spoonful of 
potato nour, a small onion pounded, a bit of 
butter the si2» of a walnut, a few whole 
pe|^)ar corns, a little mace, and salt. BoU 
It well, pick out the spices, and mix it 
smooth. Serve quite hot. 



BREAD. (S) Put a small 

tea-cupfid of bread crumbs into a stewpan, 
poor on it as much milk as it will soak in>, 
and a little more ; or instead of the milx, 
take the giblets, head, neck, and legs, &c. 
of the poultry, &c. and stew them, and 
moisten the wead with this liquor; put it on 
the fire with a middling-sized onion, abd a 
dozen berries of pepper or allspice, (Mr a lit- 
tle mace; let it boil, then stir it well, and 
let it simmer till it is quite stiff, and then 
pot to it aboot two tablc'epoonfuki of cream 
or melted hotter, or a little good broth; 
take out the onion and pepper, and it is 
ready. 

dot, — ^This is an excellent accompani- 
ment to game and poultry. 



FOR BOILED MEAT, Game, 

AND Poultry. Braise the yolks of two 
hard-boiled e^ with a little water and salt ; 
bone one anchovy, and mince it, a small on- 
ion, two shallots, a little parsley and tarra- 
gon, and a few capers ; mix them with the 
egg, add a table-spoonful of fine oil, a little 
mustard, two table-spoonfuls of lemoh, and 
one of tarragon vinegar; mix all exceed- 
ingly well together, put it into a sauce-tu- 
reen, and serve it with the broil; or it may 
be served with cold veal. 



1 — CAPER. To make a quarter 

of a pint, take a table-spoonfiil of capers, 
and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. 

The present ^shion of cutting capers is 
to mince one-third of them very fine, and 
divide the others in half; put them into a 

auarter of a pint of melted butter, or good ^ 
lickened gi'avy; stir them the samb way 



8A0CE8 



184 



SAnXKB 



M jfOD on tte BBHlM uiMff or it will on. 
eons boilj Md iniMw fins • few HSfw of 
fMnley, or ckervO, or tairagon, and add 
tbne to llie Mune; otfaen the joiee of half 
a SeviDe orange, or lemon. 

Keep the caper bottle very doori^ oodked, 
•ad do aot oee any of tlie caper liqaor: if 
the capers are not w^ covered with it, thej^ 
will imflEiedialeW epoil ; and it ie an excel- 
lent ingredieiit la haflbee, Itc. The Datch 
OM it as a flth nnoe, mixing it with meked 
butter. 



CARRIER. Scra|^ a naall 

■tick <^ boTK-radiflh, cut an onion or two 
in thin slices, put these into a saooe-toreen 
with a li^ vinecar and whde pepper; set 
the tureen in the dripping^fan luider a 
shoulder of motion whilst raastiag; serve 
this sauce qoite hot with the meat. 



CKLERY, WHITE. Pick and 



wash two heads of niee white cdery; cot it 
into pieces about an inch long ; vtew it in a 
pint of wat«r, and a tea-epoonful of salt, till 
the celery is tender; roll an ounce of butter 
with a table-spoonful of floor; add this to 
half a pint of cream, and give it a boil up. 



CELERY PUREE, for boiled 

TVrActf, Veai, Fowl$, ^e. Oit small 
half a doaen heads of nice white celery that 
is quite clean, and two onions sliced; pot 
in a two-quart stewpan, with a smalt lump 
of butter: sweat them over a slow fire till 

auite tender, then put in ^wo epoonfiils of 
our, half a pint of water (or beef or veal 
broth), salt and pepper, and a little cream or 
milk ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and pass 
through a fine hair sieve with the back of a 
spoon. If you wish for celery sauce when 
celery is not in season, a quarter of a drachm 
of celery seed, or a little essence of celery, 
will impregnate half a pint of sauce with a 
sufficient porti(Mi of the flavor of the vege- 
table. 



CHESTNUT, FOR ROAST 



TURKEY. Scald a pound of good eiiest- 
nnts in hot water for five minutes, skin them, 
and stew them slowly for two hours in white 
stock, seasoned and thickened with butter 
and fiour. Cut a pound of pork sausages 
into bits about an inch kms, oust them with 
flour, and Gry them a light brown ; lay them 
into the dish on which the turkey is to be 
served, and pour the chestnuts and sauce 
over them. Some people prefer the firied 
sausages slewed a little with the chestnuts; 
but this method makes the sauce of a darka: 
color. 

CURRANT, FOR VENISON. 



wanO fd mrni nattvmy add ihna jM^ 
■Mioafiili of grated hnad, % iwaea oi ba H Bf 
tDB siae of a wahmt, foor t km», aad a gkai 
ofPoitwiDe; atir it tiU it boil, and awva it 
hot. 



CURRT, b 



liy sliiiiug a 



auAcient quantity of oori'v powwr, iniD||var- 
vy or melted hotter, or oohmi Maoe, or onion 
gravy. The oempoaitKMs of oary powoer, 
and the pdates of thoee wfco eat k, vary m 
much, that vre eaaaot wic ^w i im f iid any spe- 
cific qoaatity. The eoek mast add k by 
degrees, tasting as she prooeeda, and take 
care not to put in too miich* 



DUTCH. (l)Beatap1lie7oSu 

of six eggs, mix in « little floor, cream, «ak, 
and lemon vioonir. Strain it tfaroogh a 
sieve, add a smaU piece of finesh lialler, two 
blades of pounded mace, and a little pepper. 
Pot it into a sanee|xm« and stir it ^ it 
is almoat boiling. 



DUTCH. (2)PotnA&a0lewpan 

a tea-spoenfiil of flour, four O t b te-s pouii firiB ctf 
elder vinegar, a quaiter-of a poond of flvsh 
butter, the yoDis of five agg8,aad a Kttle 
sak; keep stirring it over the Are, and work 
it weU till thick. If it be not coidled, it 
will not require to be stramed. Seaaoo 
widi pepper* 

DUTCH, roR FitH or Boix- 

XD FowL8« Mix, with two oonoes of 
fiedi butter, one tea-spoonnil of floor, two 
taUe-epoonfab of cold wMor, the same 
quantity of vioqiar, and one well-beaten 
egg; put it into a saucepan, and stir it over 
the fire till it be quite hot, bit do not allow 
it to boil. 



 ' EGK?. (1) This agreeable accom* 

paniment to roasted poultry, or saked firii, 
IS made by potting three egga into boiling 
water, and ooiling them iw about tvrelve 
mmutes, when they will be hard ; pot them 
into cold water till you want them. This 
will make the yolks firmer, and prevent 
their soHace turning black, and you can cut 
them much neater: use only two of the 
whites, cut the whiles into sinaU dice, the 
yolks into bits about a quarter of an indli 
square; put them into a sanoe4wat; pour 
to them half a pint of melted butter, and 
stir them together. 

If you are for superlative egg sauce, 
pound the yolks of a oonple of eggs, and rob 
them with the melted botto' to thidten it. 

N. B. — Some cooks eamish sak fish with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in half. 



Boil in water for a few minutes an ounce of 



EGG. (2) Boil three or fijor 

eggs about a quarter of an hour, put them 



SAUCES 



185 



SAUCES 



IbIo cold watar, ttka off tbe ihrib, out time 
of tbe wfaitee and Soar y6BtM into maall 
nieoee»iiiix tfaem with melled batter, and 
lieetittreU. 



ESCHALOT. Take ibar 



dialoCi, and make it in tbe nme manner as 
garlic nnoe. Or, you may make tfain Muioe 
nioie extemporaneooBly by putting two table- 
apoonfiils of eacbalot wine, and a sprinkling 
of pepper and salt, into (almost) half a pint 
of thwK melted butter. This is an excdlent 
aanoe for ebc^ or steaks; man^ are very 
ibnd of it wilb roasted or boiled meat, 
poultry, &c. 



ESCHALOT, FOR BOIL- 
ED MUTTON. This is a very fitsquent 
and satis&ctorv substitute (air caper sauce. 
Mince four eschalots vei^ fine, and put them 
into a small saucepan, with almost half a pint 
of the liquor the mutton was boiled in: let 
them boil up for five minutes; then put in a 
table^poonfiH of vinegar, a quarter tea-spoon- 
ful of pepper, a little salt, and a bit of butter 
(as big as a walnut) rolled in flour; shake 
together till it boils. 



ESCAVEKE SAUCE, for 



Cold Game, Fowl, or Ms at. Beat, 
in a marble mortar, the following ingredients : 
five cloves of garlic, six cloves of shal- 
lot, as much pounded ginger as will lie upon 
a six|)ence, and the same of cayenne, a ta- 
ble«spoonfiil of coriander seed, and a little 
"" salt. Pour upon (hem, boiling hot, a pint 
of the best white wine vinegar ; add the peel 
of a lemon, cut vei-y thin. When cold, put 
the whole into a bottle, cork it tightly, and 
shake it well before using. 



FOR FISH. (I) The melted 

butter (or fish, should be thick enough to ad- 
here to the fish, and, tlierefure, must be of the 
thickness of light butter, as it is to be dilut- 
ed with essence of anchovv, soy, mushroom 
ketchup, cayenne, or Chili vinegar, lemons 
or lemon-juice, or artificial lemon-juice, &c. 
which are expected at all wellnserved tables. 
Cooks, who are jeak>us of the reputation of 
their taste, and housekeepers who value their 
health, will prepare these articles at home: 
there are quite as many reasons why they 
should, as there are for the preference usually 
given to home4)aked bread, and home-brew- 
ed beer. Tbe liver of the fish pounded and 
mixed with parsley and butter, with a little 
lemon-juice, &c. is an elegant and ino&nsive 
reliidi tq fish. 



> — FOR FISH. (2)Twowine-gla8e- 

ea of Port, and two of walnut pickle, four of 
mushroom ketchup, half a dosen anchovies, 
oounded, the like nnipber of eschalots sliced 

16* 



and pooBdedt • taU»«pooidal of aoy, aad 
half a drachm of cayenne pepper; let than 
simmer sently for ten minmes; strainit,aiid 
when cold, put it into bottles, well ooiked, 
auid sealed over, it will keep for a ooosidera- 
ble time. 

06s. — ^Thifl ia oonunonly called Qnin'a 



FOR FISH. (8) A table. 

spoonfol of anchovy juioe, qne of soy, and 
two of mushroom ketchup, mixed in a qoar- 
ter of a pound of melted butler. 



FOR FISH. (4) Three ancho- 
vies and an cMiion chopped, and a small bit 
of horseradish boiled in some stock, then 
strained, and thickened with a piece of but- 
ter rolled in flour. v 



FOR FISH. (5) Boil in half a 

pint of water one or two anchovies, two 
cloves, a bHule of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, 
a few peppercorns, and tvfo table-spoonfiils 
of Port wine ; strain and. thickoa it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour. 



FOR FISH. (6) Mix well with 

two ounces of melted butter, of muriiroom 
ketchup, essence of anchovies, and lemon 
pickle, a table-spocmful each, a lea-spoonfol 
of soy, and a little cayenne. Boil it before 
serving. 



FOR FISH. (7) Cliop two dowm 

of whole anchovies, mix with them half a 
pint of anchovy liquor, two shallots cut small, 
and three pints of Port wine, one of vinegar, 
one lemon sliced, one handfiil of scraped 
horsei'adish, and ten blades of mace, one 
nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, six cloves, all 
bruised, and one table-spoonfol of flour of 
mustard. Boil these U^ther about fifteen 
or twenty minutes; when cold, strain and 
bottle it, waxing the corks. It will keep 
good a year. A table<«poonful improves 
oyster sauce, and that quantity is sufficient 
for a sauce-uu^een of melted butter. 



FOR FISH. (8) A quart of Port 



wine, half a pint of best vinegar, one pound 
of bniitied anchovies, one ounce of mace and 
one of cloves, half an ounce of pepper, one 
large onion, and the peel of one lemon; boil 
all these ingredients together, over a slow 
fire, till a pint is wasted ; then strain, and 
bottle it, aiid keep it cloeely stopped. 

FISH OR MEAT SAUCE, TO MAKE 
A QUART BOTTLE OF. To half a 
bottle of vinegar put one ounce of cayenne, 
two cloves of garlic, one lable-ipooofiil of 
soy, two of walnut, and two of mushroom 
ketc:hup. Let it stand six days, shaking it 



SA€CE8 



186 



SAOCKS 



Ite'boitb of ▼inegar; let it 
stnUDy and pot ft into 



iMifor 



— ^- WHITE, FOR FISH. Foor 
m eiwyiei chopped, tmo glanes, of white 
wine, a ku^ one of TiMgar, an oaioo gtock 
with three cloree, and cot into c|Dartera; let 
aD these nnuner till the ancfaovaee dianlye; 
■tnin it, and add a quarter of a poond of 
batter kneaded in a ta M iH youufu l of floor. 
When it has melted, stir in cradnally, one 
way, half a pint of cream, tuing care that 
it do not boil. When thoroughly heated, 
serve m a saooe- tureen. 



LIVER, FOR FISH. Boil the 

\v/er of the fish, vad pound it in a mortar 
with a little floor; stir it into some broth, 
or 8(Hne of the liqam* the fish was boiled in, 
or melted butter, purely, and a few graim 
of cayenne, a little essence of anchorv, or 
soy, or ketchup; give it a boil np, and rub 
it through a sieve: you may add a little lem- 
on^joioe, or lemon cnt in dice. 



FINK, FOR FI3H. Put into a 

pan, cr wide-mouthed jar, one quart of good 
vinegar, half a pint of Pmt wine, half an 
ounce of cayenne, one larse table-spoonfid 
of widnut ketchup, two ditto of anchoiy 
liquor, a quartor of an ounce <^ cochineal, 
and six cloves of garlic. Let it remain forty 
hours, stirring it two or three times a-day ; 
run it through a flannel bag, and put it into 
half-pint bottles. 

FOR PIKE. Mix with a pint 



of cream a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 
the same of soy, and two of ketchup, a 
piece of butler rolled in flour; pot it into a 
saucepan, and stir it one way till nearly 
hoiling. 



WHITE, FOR PIKE. Simmer 



till half wasted, two table-spoonfiils of white 
wine, one of vinegar, half a small onion, and 
some grated nutmeg; add a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, tlien a small tea-cupful of 
cream; heat it thoroughly, stirring it all. the 
time, and taking care that it do not boil. 



— ' GREEN GOOSEBERRY. Boil 

some green gooseberries in water till soft, 
and svi'ceten them with brown sugar. 



GOOSEBERRY. Top and tail 

them close with a pair of sciesorsi, and scald 
half a pint of green gooseberries; drain them 
on a hair sieve, and put them into half a 
pint of melted butter. Some add grated 
ginger and lemon-peel, and the French, min- 
eed fennel ; others send op the goosebeiTies 
whole or inaslied, widiout any l)utter, &c. 




OOOSE 8TUFFDIO. Ckap 
ome of QOHMi and telf 
Mse leaves; jpnt 
pan with mar spooonib <i€ 
gently fer ten mmntes; then pot in a 
Upoo n f ul of pepper and sah, andoBeoonoe 
of fine farthd cnanbs; mix weH tonether; 
thai poor to it a qaarter of n piat of brodi, 
or gravy, or mdted batter, stir well togelhr 
er, umI simnKr it a few minutes hMDger. 



GRANDE. Take three or fear 

slices fimn the under part of a knodde of 
▼eal, and put them into a large atewpaa 
with two kdlefiils of eonsoimn^, set tt on a 
fierce fire, taking care to skim it as much as 
possible, and with a cloth wipe away all 
that adheres to the inside of the stewpan ; 
when the eonaowume n reduced, prick the 
slices with a knife to let out the gravy; then 
set the stewpan on a slow fire, tlmt the meat 
,and glaze may adhere together, and as Booa 
as the latter is of a clear light color, take it 
ofi^, leave it covered fer ten minutes, then fill 
it np widi rich stock, in which is four or 
five large carrots, and three onionsj 1^ it 
boil slowfy for two hours. In the meantime 
put the knuckle into a saucepan with four or 
five carrots, as many onions (one stuck with 
cloves), and two ladlefiils of eofiMMmns; 
set it on a brisk fire that the liquor may re- 
duce to a jelly ; as soon as this jdly begins 
to take color, pour on it the liquor tram the 
other saucepan to dissolve the jelly gradual- 
ly; then miake it boil. Dilute some roux 
With the above liquor, and add it to the meat 
with some champignons, a bunch of parsle)', 
scHilions, and two bay-leaves, skim it when 
it begins to boil, and again when the roiup 
is added, put in more consomme or roux, 
according as it is too thick or too thin. 

When it has boiled an hour and a half, 
take ofl* all die fet ; and wlien the meat is 
quite done, strain the sauce ihitNigh a bol- 
ting-cloth. 



GRILL. To half a pint of gravy, 

add an ounce of fi-esh butter, and a table- 
spoonfiil of flour, previously well rubbed to- 
gether, the same of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, two tea-spoonfuls of lanon-juioe« 
one of made mustard, one of minced capers, 
half a one of black pepper, a quarterof a 
rind of a lemon grated ver^ thin, a tea- 
spoonfiil of essence of anchovies, and a little 
eschalot wine, or a very small piece of min- 
ced eschalot, and a little Chili vinegar, or a 
few grains of cayenne ; simmer ti^ther for 
a few minutes; pour a little of it over the 
grill ; and send up the rest in a sauce-Uireen. 



HARVEY. Choptweheandn^ 



vies, bones and all, vei^ small, with one 
ounoe of cayenne pepper, six spoonfiils of 



SAUCSB 



187 



SAOCES 



9Bfff Mk ditto Of Cood wuMt pnkhj nras 

ffmrtcr of wn omee of oocnnmiy two hoMU 
of ■halloti, chopped aot ««ry imidl, one gii- 
loD of Tin^gar; let it stand footeeo days, 
Btir" it writ} twice or uHioe csvefy day f then 
paM it through a jelly-bag, and fcpeat thia 
till it IB perfectly ekar; then bottle it, and 
tie a bbdnor over uie done. 

HORSERADISH, TO EAT 

WITH Hot or Cold Meat. Mix a tea- 
apoonfiil of mustard, a table<«pooiifbl of vin- 
egar, and diree of cream ; add a little salt, 
and as much finely-grateici horseradish as 
will make the sauce the consistence of 
onion sauce. 



FOR HASHES AND MADE 

DISHES. A pint of Port wine, twelve 
anchovies chopped, a quarter of a pint of 
irinegar, as much beaten pepper as will lie 
on half a crown, two or three cloves, a 
blade or two of mace, a nutmeg bruised, 
one small onion mibced, two bay^leaves, a 
little lemon thyme, maiponun, and parsley, 
and a piece of horsMtuiisb about the length 
of a finger split into qcarters ; pot all into a 
saucepan, and let it simmer till the ancho- 
vies are dissolved ; then strain it, and, when 
cold, bottle it for use. ' 



FOR HASHED OR MINCED 

VEAL. Take the bones of cold roast or 
boiled veal, dredge' them well with flour, 
arid put them into a stewpan with a pint 
and a half of broth or water, a small onion, 
a little grated or finely-minced lemon-peel, 
or the peel of a qtiarter of a sm^tll lemon, 
pared as thin as possible, half a tea-spoonful 
of salt, and a blade of pounded mace; to 
thicken it, rub a table-spoonful of flour into 
half an ounce of butter; stir it into the 
broth, and set it on the fire, and let it boil 
very gently for about half an hour ; strain 
through a tamis or sieve, and it is ready to 
put to the veal to warm up ; which is to be 
done by placing the stewpan by the side of 
the fire. Squeeze in half a lemon, and cov- 
er the bottom c^ the dish with toasted bread 
sippets cut into triangles, and garnish the 
dish with slices of ham or bacon. 

FOR HASHES OP MUTTON 

OR BEEF. Unless you are quite sure you 
perfectly understand the palate of those you 
are working for, show those who are to 
eat the hash this receipt, and beg of them to 
direct you how they wish it seasoned. 

Half the number of the ingredients eaa- 
merated will be more than enough: but as it 
is a receipt so oflen wanted we have given 
variety. 

Chop the bones and firagments of die joint. 



IM., ttd ptt iImhi into « .wwy..^ 
ihtm with beiKng water, rix hmthm «f 
black pepper, the same of allspice, a mhbU 
bundle of parsley, half a head of celery cut 
in pieoes, and a smaR eprig ef wcmry, or 
lemon thyme, or sweet marjonnn $ cover vpy 
and let it simmer gently for half an bear. 

Slice half an ounce of onion, and pnt it 
into n etewpan with an ounce of butter; fry 
it over a sharp fh« for about a couple cf 
minutes, till it takes a little color; then stir 
in as much floor as will make it a stiff 
paste, and by degrees mix with it the sravv 
you have maide from the bones, Sec. ; let it 
Doil verr c^tly for about a quarter of an 
hour, till it is the consistence of cream; 
strain it throuih a tamis or sieve into a ba- 
sin ; put it back into the stewpan: to season 
it, cot in a few pickled onions, or vralnuls, 
or a couple of gherkins, and a tablenipoonliil 
of mushromn ketchup, or walnut or other 
pickle liquor; or some capers, and caper 
liquor; or a table-epoonfiil of ale; or a litde 
esclialot, or tarragon vinegar ; cover the bot- 
tom of the dish with sippets of bread (that 
they may become savory reservoirs of gra- 
vy), which some toast and cut into triangles. 
You may garnish it with fried bread sippets. 

N. B. — ^To hash meat in perfection, it 
should be laid in this gravy only just fong 
enotisfa to get properly warm through. 

06s.— If any of the gravy that was sent 
up with, or ran ff*om the joint when it was 
roasted, be lei), it will be a great improve- 
ment to tlie hash. 

If you wish to make mock venison, instead 
of the onion, put in two or three ck>ves, a 
table-spoonfol of currant jelly, and the same 
quantity of claret or Port wine, instead of 
the ketchup. 

You may make a curry hash by adding 
some curry jam. 

N. B. — A pint of Beef-gravy Sauce is an 
excellent gra^ to warm up eitlier meat or 
poultry. 



KELLY'S, FOR BOILED 

Tripe, Calf-head, or Cow-heel. 
Garlic vinegar, a table-spoonfol ; of mustard, 
brown sugar, and black pepper, a tea-«pooo- 
fol each ; stirred into half a pint of oiled 
melted butter. 

KELLY'S PIQUANTE. Pound 



a table-spoonful of capers, and one of minced 
parsley, as fine as possible; then add the 
yolks of three hard eggs, rub them well to- 
gether with a table-spoonful of mustard; 
bone six anchovies, and pound them, rub 
them through a hair sieve, and mix with two 
table-spoonfob of oil, one of vinegar, one of 
esclufot ditto, and a few grains of cayenne 
pepper; rub all tliese well together in a 
moitar, till tliartMighly incorporated; then 



SAUCES 



188 



SAUCES 



■lir dm mio half a pint of md wnvj, or 
mailed butter, and pot the wbok toroiigh a 



LEMON. Pare a lemon, and 

cut it into alioee twice at thick as a half- 



erown piece; divide tfaeae into dice, and pot 
than into a quarter of a pint of melted but- 
ter. Some oooke mince a bit of the lemon- 
peel (pored very thin) ^nry fine, and add it 
to the above. 



LEMON AND LIVER. Pare 

off the rind c^a lemon, or of a Seville orange, 
as thin as poesiUe, eo ae not to cut off any 
of the white with it; now cut off all the 
white, and cut the kmon into slicee about 
as thick as a couple of half-crowns ; pick out 
the pips, and divide the slices into small 
squares: add these> and a little of the peel 
minced very fine to the liver, preparea as 
directed above, and pot them into the melted 
butter, and warm them together ; but do not 
let them boil. 

N. B. — ^The poulterers can always let you 
have fresh livers, if that of the fowl or rabbit 
is not good, or not larae enough to make as 
much sauce as you wim. 

06«.—- Some cooks, instead of pounding, 
mince the liver v&ry fine (with half as much 
bacon), and leave Out the parskj; others 
add the juice of half a lemon, and some of 
the peel grated, or a tea-spoonful of tarragon 
or Chili vinegar, a table-spoonful of white 
wine, or a little beaten mace, o^ notm^, 
or allspice: if you wish it a little more lively 
on the palate, pound an eschalot, or a few 
leaves of tarragcMo or basil, with anchoy, or 
ketchup, or cayenne. 



LIVER AND PARSLEY, OR 

LIVER AND LEMON. Wash the liver 
(it most be perfectly fi^i) of a fowl or rab- 
bit, and boil it five minutes in five table- 
spoonfiils of virater; chop it fine, or pound 
or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor 
it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve: 
wash about one-third the bulk of parsley 
leaves, put them on to boil in a little boiling 
water, with a tea-epoonfiil of salt in it; lay 
it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it very 
fine ; mix it with the livor, and put it into a 
quarter pint of melted butter, and warm it 
up; do not let it boil. 



LOBSTER. (I) Bruise the bodv, 

add it to some thick melted butter; pull the 
flesh into small bits, and mix all together 
with some rich beef gnavy; boil it up, and 
b^re serving add a little salt, and squeeae 
in a little lemon-juice. 



LOBSTER. (2) Pound very 



finely the spawn of a lobster, rub it through 



a siefe, nix it with a omiter of a pound 
of melted butter, then aod the meat ^ the 
lobster cut into small bits. Bfake it quite 
hot, bat do not allow it to boil. 



LOBSTER. SttLobMUr. 

FOR LOBSTER. Bniise the 

yolks of two hard-boiled ^gs with the beck 
<^ a wooden spoon, or ratmr pound them in 
a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water, and 
the soft inside and the spawn of the lobster ; 
rub them quite smooth, with a tea-spoonfiil 
of made mustard, two table-spoonfiils of 
salad oil, and five of vin^;ar; season it with 
a very little cayenne pepper, and some salt. 

LOVE-APPLE, ACCJORDING 

TO UDE. Melt in a stewpan a dozen or 
two of love-apples (which, before putting; in 
the stewpan, cut in two, and sqpieese the 
juice ana the seeds out) ; then put two es- 
chalots, one onion, with a few bits <^ ham, 
a cbve, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a few 
leaves of mace, and when melted, rub them 
through a tamis. Mix a few spoonliils of 
good Espagnole or Spanish sauce, and a 
little salt and pe|)per, with this puree. Boil 
it for twenty minutes, and save up. 



MINT. (1) Pick and wash 

some green mint; add, when minced, a 
table-epoonfiil of the voung leaves, to four 
of vinegar, and put it into a sauce-tureen, 
with a tea-spoonful of brown sqgar. 



—MINT. (2) Wash half a hand- 
ful of nice, younff, fiiesh^thered greoi mint 
(to this some add one-third the quantity cf 
parsl^'); pick the leaves from the stalks, 
mince tliem very fine, and put them into a 
sauce-boat, with a tea-spoonful of moist su- 
gar, and four table-spoonfuls of vin^ar. 



MOCK CAPER. Cut some 

pickled green p^se, French beans', gherkins, 
or nasturtiums, into bits the size of capers ; 
pot them into half a pint of melted butter, 
with two tea-spoonfiils of lemon-juice, or 
nice vinegar. 



MOCX OYSTER. Put into a 

saucepan two or three chopped anchovies, a 
quarter of a pint of water, a little mace, and 
one (NT two cloves ; let Ui«n simmer till the 
anchovies be quite dissolved. Strain it, and 
when cool, add a tea-cupfiil of cream; thick- 
en it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, 
and heat it up. It may be poured over 
boiled fowls or veal. 



MOCK TOMATA. The only 



difierence between this and genuine love- 
apple sauce, is the substituting the pulp of 



I 



BAUCfiS 



180 



8At7€£t3 



vjipK ibr Ihttt of KmiBtey tMtontg it wMh 
tomeric, mnA eonummicatiBg an ad4 ftiTW 
%o it by vloeipur* 



MUSHROOM. Pick and peel 

tialf a phft of ToaAroamB (the smafler the 
better) ; waih 'dieiii Tery efeflED) and piit tfaeni 
Into a aaa cep m , widi Indf a pint of veal 
grafy or milk, a little pepper and Ah, and 
an oosee of batter rabbed with « taUe-spoon- 
Ifd of tear; «tir ^lea together, and set them 
over a gende ire, to stew sloiHy tiU tender ; 
«kim sod rtrain k. 

Ob», — ^It jn^ be a great inpnyvanent to 
tills, and the two (bUowing sauces, to add to 
tiiem the jniee c^ hatf a loien nmahrooins, 
{irepai^ed Hie day before, by sprinkling them 
-with salt, the same as wlien TOO make ketch- 
up; or add a laige speonfiH of good double 
mushrooai ketdhnp. 

0eo QmiBieflRnce of If orfifooint* 

MUSHROOM, FOR BOILED 

TuaCAT OR Powc. fidk. dean and 
"warfi a pint of boaH ntthroeBM, rob them 
with flanad, pot ikma into a saucepan widi a 
%hide of mace, « lilde aalt, grated nutineg, 
« piece of butter relied in imr, and » pint 
of craam, keep stimar them lM they boil, 
then pour th»n round the taikqr, fowl, or 
chicken. 



— WHmS ONION. ThefoDow- 

lag is a more mild and delicate preparation: 
taJU halfa dozen of the largest and whitest 
onions (die Spanish are the mildest, bat 
Hh e oL can oi^ be had firom August to De- 
oember); peel dbem and cat tfaiem in half, 
•nd h^ them in n pan of spring water for a 
ijoarter crf'a.n hoar, and then boil £»* a <]uar- 
ter ef an faour ; ami then, if you wish than 
to taste very mild, pour off that water, and 
cover them with fresh boiling water, and let 
them boil till they are tender, which will 
sometimes take three-quarters <^ an hour 
longer. 



ONION. Boil twelve or more 

onions in water; viiien it boils, poor it off, 
add more hot water, and whessk the onions 
are lender, strain and mash them in a bowl, 
add a piece of batter, a little salt, and one 
or two spoonfuls of cream. Heat it before 
eerving. An applo^may be boiled with the 
omons. 



for a fow ttimrtes; add a tafaletfinonM of 
claret, or Port wine, and same of moili- 
room ketchup, (you may rfnrpen it with a 
little lemon-jaioe or vinegar), and nib h 
throc^ a tmnis or ftie sieve. Oarry powder 
wBI convert Ihii into excdlent carry sauce. 

N. B. — ^If this saii6e is for steaks, Ared 
an ounce of onions, fiy them a nice brown, 
and put them to the sauce you have nfobed 
throogh a tamis; or some voy small, round, 
young silvo: button onions, peeled and boil- 
ed tender, and put in whole when your saoce 
is done, will be an acceptable addition. 

Obt. — If you have no broth, pot in half a 

E'nt of water, and just before you give it the 
!t boil op, add to it another taUe-spoonfol 
of moflhroom ketchup, or the same qoantily 
of Pon vrine or good ale. T)m flavw of 
diis sauce may be varied by adding tarragon 
or bomet vinegar. 



ONION. See Onion, 

ORANGE GRAVY, for wild 

Ducks, Woodcocks, Snipes, Widg- 
eon, Teal, &c. Set on a seuioepan widi 
half a pint of veal ^vy ; add to it half a 
dozen leaves of basd, a snail onion, md a 
roll of orange or lemon peel, and let it boil 
op for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put 
to the clear gravy the jnioe of a SeviHe or- 
ange, or lem(», half a teanspoonfiil of sak, 
the same of pepper, and aglasB<^redwine; 
send it up hot. Esc^bt and cayenne may 
be added. This is an excellent sauce for 
all kinds of wild water-fov^. 

Gravies should always be sent op in a 
covered boat: they keep hot longer; and it 
leaves it to the choice of the company to 
partake of them or not. 



ONION, OR ONION JGRAVY . 

Peel and slice the onions (some put in an 
equal qaantity of cucumber or cele^) into a 
quart stewpan, with an ounce of batter ; set 
it on a slow fire, and tarn the onion about 
tin it is veiT lightly browned ; now gradually 
stir in half an ounce of flour; add a little 
broth, and a little pepper and salt; boil up 



OYSTER. See Oyatere, 

PIQUANT. Put a little chop- 
ped shallot and a few spoonfols of gravy in- 
to a saucepan ; let it boil till the gravy be 
nearly boiled away, but not homed to the 
bottom of the saucepan; add as much 
braise as may be required for die sauce, 
season with pepper and salt, boil it a few 
minutes, then add a little lemon-iuice, sugar, 
and a tea-spoonfol of garlic vinegar. 

N. B. — ^Braise is an onion stock wi !i 
cloves, and boiled till tender in gravy and 
white wine. 



PIQUANT, for cold Meat, 

Game, Poultry, Fieh, ^e. or Saiade, 
Pound in a mortar the yolks of two ^^ 
that have been boiled hard with a mustara- 
spoonfol of made, mustard, and a little pep- 
per and salt ; add two table-epoonfids of esil- 
ad oil ; mix vrell, and then add three table- 
qxx>nfu]8 of viii^;ar ; rub it up well till it is 



SAUCES 



190 



SAUCES 



ijlphe ■nootfa, and pas it (hroogh a tamii or 



Ob§. — ^To the above* Kine add an an- 
chovT, or a taUe-i^xioofiil of moBhroom 
ketchup, or wahnit picUe, Mmie finely-chop- 
ped panlejTy grated lioneradiflh, or young 
(Ndiong minced, or bumet, borBeradiah or 
tanragon, or elder Tinegar, kc., and ca]|r- 
cnne oic minced pickles, capen, Sec. This 
is a piquanU reush for lobsters, crabs, cold 
&b, &c. 

SALAD OR PIQUANT, FOR 



COLD Mkat, Fish, &c. Found together 
an ounce of scraped horseradi^, half an 
ounce of sak, a table-spoonfiil of made mus- 
tard, four drachms (MT minced eschalots, 
half a drachm of celery seed, and half ditto 
of cayenne, adding gradually a pint of bur- 
net, or tarraeon vin^;ar, and let it stand in 
a jar a we(«, and then pass it through a 
sieve. 



FOIVRADE, FOR COLD 



MEAT. (1) Chop finely six shallots and a 
handfiil of picked and washed parsley; mix 
with it a little Tinecar, musUurd, cayenne 
cold gravy, and salt. 



FOIVRADE, FOR COLD 

MEAT.^ (2) Bniise the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg with a little salt and mustard, 
oil, soy, chopped parsley, and chives, and 
fwur it over uioes of any cold meat. 



PUDDING. Mix with half a 

X pint of melted butter two wine-glasses of 
sherry, and a table-«poonfiil of pounded 
loaf sugar; make it quite hot, and serve in 
a sauce-tureen, with grated nutmeg on the 
top. 



QUIN*S. (1) Half a pint of 

mushroom pickle, the same of wabmt pickle, 
three whole and three pounded cloves of 
garlic, six anchovies bruised, and a tea^ 
spoonfiil of cavenne. Mix all together in a 
large bottle, shake it daiW for three weeks, 
then strain, and bottle it for use. 

QUIN'S. (2) One pint of 

Port wine, one of mushroom ketchup, one 
of walnut liquor, one of essence of ancho- 
vies, and a tea-spoonfiil of cayenne; mix 
all together, and Boil it for a quarter of an 
hour. If essence of andioTies, is not to be 
had, boil half a pound of anchovies in a 
quart of water till reduced to a pint. Strain, 
and use it. 



REVEREND. Chop up some 

lemon-peel, and two or three pickled cu- 
cumbers; put them into a stewpon with 
two spoonfuls of cullis, a little butto' rolled 



in ikmr, aeaion with sak and pepper, pol 
It (Ml the fire, and make it quite not withoot 
boilmg, stirring all the time, make a liautm 
with yolks of ^gSf and serve. 



RICE. Steep a quarter of a 

pound of rice in a pint ot mVk^ with onion, 
pq^mr, fcc. as in die last receipt; vHien 
the rice is quite tender (take sut tne spice), 
nib it through a sieve into a dean slewpan: 
if too thick, put a little milk w cream to it. 

Ofrf. — ^liiis is a very delicate white 
sauce; and at elegant tables is fi^qoemly 
served instead of bread sanoe. 

FOR ROAST BEEF. (1) Mix 

well together a hirae table-spoonfiil of 
finely-grated horseracush, a deasert-spoon- 
fiil of made mustard, and half a one of 
brown sqgar, then add vin^^ till it be as 
thick as made mustard. Serve in a sanoe- 



FOR ROAST BEEF. (2) Put 

into a stone Jar one gill c^soy, tvro of Tine- 
gar, two of water, a ^oodHsiaed stick of 
horseradish, and two sliced <mions. Cover 
the jar closely, and set it into a pan of cold 
water; when it boils, let it aimmier for two 
or three hours. 

ROBART, FOB Beef Steaks 

OR MuTTOH Chops. Put into a sa u c ep an 
a little gravyt two ounces of butter dre^jed 
with fl<Mr, a small slice of raw ham, and 
two or three minced onions; when the on- 
ions are browned, dust in a little more 
flour, and add nearly a pint <^ gravy, a lit- 
tle sak and pepper, a tea-spoonfiil of mus- 
tard, and a table-flpoonfiil m Tinegar. Boil 
it for some minutes, strain and serve it. 



SALAD. (1) Bruise the yolk 

(^a hard-boiled egv with a small tea-spoon- 
fiil of salt, then mm a dessert-spoonfiil <^ 
mustard, and stir in gradually a large table- 
spoonful of olive oil, oiled butter, or cream, 
thm by degrees mix in two or three table- 
spoonfiib of vinegar; serve it in a sauce- 
tureen, or mix it with the salad. Instead 
of the hard m, gome persons prefer the 
sauce made with the yolk raw. 



SALAD. (2) Rub smooth a 

hard-boiled egg, beat well a raw egg, and 
mix them together with a little water, a 
tea-qxHHifiil of salt, one of cayome, one of 
pepper, and one of mustard, a taUe^poon- 
ful of vin^r, one of essence of anchovies, 
and five otrich cream. . 

The artist, as he styled himself, who in- 
vented this salad sauce drove in his carriasn 
to his employers, and charged them ten shu* 
lings and sixpence for each visit ! 



STAUCES 



191 



SAUCES 



SAUCES. 8€t al$o Qnwy, page 89. 



r-SHALLOT. (1) Boil afew mine 

' ed flliallotfl in a little clear gravy and nearly 
* , jB8 much vinegar, add a few pepperooms and 
a little salt. Strain, and serve it in a same- 
tureeo. ^ 



SHALLOT. (2) Take two spoon- 

fbls of the liquor the meat was boiled in, two 
spomifub <^ vin^ar, two or-ihree shallots cut 
*fine, and a little salt ; put these ingredients 
into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled 
in flour; let it stew a litde, and serve it up 
with your mutton or beef. 



SHARP, FOR VENISON. 

Put into a silver, or vary clean and well- 
tinned saucepan, half a pint of the best 
white wine vioq;ar, and a quarter of a 
pound of heS'Bogar pounded: set it ova- the 
fire, and let it simmer gently ; skim it care- 
ilillv; pom* it through a tamu or fine sieve, 
and send it up in a basin. 

06«.— Some people like (his better tlian 
the sweet wine sauces. 



SHRIMP. (1) Pick some shrimps 

nicely from the shell, put them into melted 
batter, add a table-«poonful of lemon pickle 
and vinegar; heat it.- 



SHRIMP. (2) Shell a pint of 

shrimps; pick them clean, wash them, »nd 

Cut them into half a pint of ^ood melted 
utter. A pint of unshelled shrunps is about 
enough for four persons. 

Ob». — Some stew the heads and shells 
of the shrimps, (with or without a blade 
of bruised mace), for a quarter of an hour, 
and strain off the liquor to melt the butter 
with, and add a little lemon-juice, cayenne, 
and essence of anchovy, or soy, cavice, 
&c. ; but the flavor of the shrimp is so deli- 
cate, that it will be overcome by any socii 
additions. 

Mem. — If your shrimps are not quite 
fresh, they will eat tough and tliready, as 
other stale fish do. 



SORREL. (1) Pick and wash 

some son-el, put it into a stewpan with a lit- 
tle water, stir it, to prevent ili? burning, and 
when it is tender, drain and mince it nnely ; 
fry it for half an hoar in a stewpan with a 
little buttfr, then dredge in a table-spoonfiil 
of flour, moisten it with boiling cream, and 
let it stew on a slow fire for an hour ; add a 
little: salt, and if too acid, a little sugar. 
Before serving, thicken with the beaten yolks 
of four eggs. 



sorrel, well drain it fifom water, and theo put 
it into a stewpan, well covered with a bit of 
butter, and let it stew very gently ovor a sbw 
fire ; when done, put it to drain <m a sieve for 
three minutes, then, with a wooden spooo, 
rub it through a tammy into a dish ; put it 
into a stewpan, with a bit of butlnr, stir- 
rii^ it over the fire till thorouf^ly mixed ; 
you may add, if you choose, three spoon- 
fiik of good eonaomme, and when it has 
boiled rar a few minutes, add to it half as 
much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if 
necessary season with a little salt; this is 
proper ior a /rieandeau of veal or entrees 
of osh. 



SUPERLATIVE. Claret, or 



^^ SORREL. (2) Pick and thor- 
oughly wash two double liandfuls of young 



Port wine, and mushroom ketchup, a pint of 
each. Half a pint of walnut or other pickle 
liquor. Pounded anchovies, four ounces. 
Fresh lemon-peel, pared very thin, an ounce. 
Peeled and sliced eschabts, the same. 
Scraped horseradish, ditto. Allspice, and 
black pepper powdered, half an ounce each. 
Cayenne, one drachm, or curry-powder, 
three drachms. Celery-seed bruised, one 
drachm. All avoirdupois weiffht. Put 
these into a wide-mouthed bottle, stop it 
close, shake it up every day for a fortnight, ^ 
and strain it (when seme think it improved 
by the addition of a quarter of a pint of soy, 
or thick browning), and yon will have a 
"delicious double relisli." Dr. Kitchiner 
says, this composition is one of tlie '' che& 
d'ceuvre " of many experiments he has made, 
for the purpose of enabling the good house- 
wives of Great Britain to prepare their own 
sauces: it is equally agreeable with fish, 
game, poultiy, or ragouts, &c., and as a 
fair lady may make it herself, its relish will 
he not a little augmented, by the certainty 
that all the ingredients are good and whole- 
some. 

Ob$. — Under an infinity of circumstances, 
a cook may be in want of the substances ne- 
cessary to make sauce: tlie above composi- 
tion of the several articles from M'hich the 
various gravies derive their flavor, will be 
found a vei^ admirable extemporaneous sub- 
stitute. By mixing a large table-spoonful 
with a quarter of a pint of thickened melted 
butter, or broth, five minutes will finish a 
boat of very relishing sauce, nearly equal to 
drawn gravy, and as likely to put your lin- 
gual nerves into good humor as any thing 1 
know. 

To make a boat of sauce for poultry, &c. 
put a piece of butter about as big as an eg^ 
mto a stewpan, set it on the fire; when it 
is melted, put to it a table-spoonfhl of flour; 
stir it thoroughly together, and add to it 
two table-spoonfuls of sauce, and by degrees 
about half a pint of broth, or boiling water, 
let it simmer gently over a slow fire for a 



SAUCES 



102 



SAtTCSS 



ftir «iHl«, ikim k and ftreiii h llrnqgh a 
■itffe, aad it is ready. 



FOR STEAKS, CHOPS, OR 

CU1X£TS. Take jour chops out of the 
Ihring-pan; ibr a poind of meat keep a ta- 
bteHipooaihi of the fet ia the pao, or pot io 
about an oonoe of butter; put to k ae much 
flour as win make k a parte; rab k well 
togfther Ofer the fire till the? are a little 
brown; then add ae much boiling water ae 
will reduce it to the thicknem of good cream, 
and a table-epoonfiil of maehroom or walnut 
ketchup, or pidile, or browning; let it boil 
together a few minutes, and pour it through 
a sieve to the steaks, &c. 

(Hm. — ^To the above is sometunes added 
a sliced onion, or a minced eschalot, with 
a taUe-spooofiil of Port wine, or a little 
eschalot wine. Garnirii with finely-scraped 
horseradish, or pickled wahiuts, gherkins, 
&c. Some beef-eaters like chopped escha- 
lots in one saucer, and horaerftdisli grated 
in vinegar, in another. Broiled mushrooms 
are &vorite rdisbes to beef steaks. 



SWEET, FOR VENISON OR 

HARE. Put some currant jelly into a 
titewpan ; when it is melted, pour it into a 
aaiioe-boat. 

N. B.->Many send it to table without 
melting. 

This is a more salubrious relish than 
either spice or salt, when the palate pro- 
tPRts against animal food unless its flavor be 
masked. Currant jelly is a good accom- 
paniment to roasted or hashed meats. 



SWEET. Put some cinnamon 

into a saucepan, with as much water as 
will cover it; set it on the tire, and when it 
has boiled up once or twice, add two 
spooniiils of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint 
of white wine, and two bay-leaves ; give 
the whole one boil, and then strain it for 
table. 

TAR'/aRE. Pound 



in a mor- 
tar three hard yolks of e^s; put them into 
a basin, and add half a table-spoonful of 
made mustard, and a little pepper and salt; 
pour to it'by degrees, stirring it fast aH the 
while, about two wine^lassiuls <^ salad oil; 
stir it together till it comes to a good thick- 
ness. 

N. B. — ^A little tarragon or chervil minc- 
ed very fine, and a litUe vinegar, may be 
added. 



TOMATA. See Tomata. 

— TOURNEE. To a little white 

thickening add some stock drawn from the 
trimmings (^ veal, poultry, and ham; do 



not ■Mkie it ten Ifaiok. Boil k denAf wkh 
a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsl^, and 
^Bome gram cmions; strain and skim k wcU, 
and use it as required. German aanoe m 
mads tm the tmma taoi^nee, adffiag the beat- 
en yolks of two or men me, aiud ie assd 
for ragouts, fiicassees, and dhy mada dish 
which may require a rich white sauce. 



WHITE. Thkken half a pntt 

of eream with a little flaw and butler, fear 
sfaaUots mineed, a Iktk maoe and lemoi»> 
peel; let it boil, and a little befere serving, 
add a spomifiil ot white wine, the wett-bealen 
yolk of an egs, the sqpieeie of a lemon, mid 
a tesi'Bpoaami of anchoyv liquor. This sauce 
win answer for boiled rowb, or for a fiieas- 

WHITE, FOR FOWLS OR 

TURKEY. Put on, in a quart of water, 
the necks of fowls, a piece of the scrag-end 
of a nedL of mutton, two blades of mace, 
twelve peppercorns, one anchovy, a small 
head of ceiny, a slice fixxn off* the end of a 
lemon, and a bunch of sweet heths; cover it 
closely, and let it boil till reduced to nearly 
InUf a pint; strain, and put to it a quarter 
of a pound of butter dredged with flour ; let 
it boil for five minutes, and thm add two 
spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms. Mix witli 
a tea-cupful of cream, the well-beaten yolks 
<A two e^d, and some grated nutmeg ; stir 
this in gradually, and riiake the pan over 
the fire till it is aU quite hot, but do not al- 
low it to boil. 

WHITE ITALIAN. Peel 

some mushrooms, and throw them into a 
little water and lemon-juice, to keep tliem 
white. Put into a stewpan two-thirds of 
sauce toornee, and one-third of good veal 
stock, two table-spo<Nifol8 of finely-€hop|)«d 
mushrooms, and half a table-spoonful of 
washed and chopped shallots ; let it boil till 
well flavoi'ed, and then serve it. ^ The 
mushrooms slwuld be as white as possible. 



WHITE SHARP. Boil with 

a little taiTagon, or tarragon vinegar, if tlie 
tarragon is not to be had, four tableHspoon- 
fills of white wine vinegar, and about twen- 
ty pepperocNms; reduce this to one-fooith, 
and add it to six table-spoonfols of sauoe- 
tournee, and two of good stock ; boil and 
strain it ; put it again on the fire, and thick- 
en it widi the beaten ydks of two ^gs, a 
small bit of bottor, a little salt and cayenne. 
Just before serving, stir in a spoonful of 
cieam. 



WHITE, FOR Boiled Fowls. 



Melt in a tea-cupfiil of milk a kirge tabks- 
spooutul of iMitter kneaded in flour, beat up 



SAU 



193 



SAU 



the yolk of an egg with a tea-epoonibl of 
cream, stir it into the butter, and heat it 
over the fire, stirring it constantly; chop- 
ped parsley improves this sauce. It also 
may be made uy melting the batter with 
water, and nuxing milk with the egg, 

SAUCE, WINE, FOR VENISON OR 
HARE. A quarter of a pint of claret or 
Port wine, tlie same quantity of plain, un- 
flavored mutton gravy, and a table-spoonful 
of currant jelly: let it just boil np, and send 
it to table m a sauce-boat. 

SAUCE, WOW WOW, FOB Stewbd 
OR BouiLLi Beef. Chop some parsley- 
leaves very fine ; Quarter two or three pickled 
cucinnbBV, or walnuts, and divide them into 
small squares, and set them by ready: put 
into a saucepan a bit of butter as big as an 
^g; wlien it is melted, stir to it a table- 
spoonful of fine flour, and about half a pint 
c^ the broth in which the beef was boiled ; 
add a table-spoonful of vinegar, the like 
quantity of mushroom ketchup, or Port wine, 
or both, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard ; 
let it simmer together till it is as thick as 
you wi^ it; pot in the parsl^ and pickles 
to get warm, and pour it over the beef; or 
rather send it up in a sauce-tureen. 

Ob». — If you think the above not sufficient- 
ly piquante, add to it some capers, or a 
minced eschalot, or one or two tea-spoonfuls 
of eschalot wine, or essence of anchovy, or 
basil, elder, or tarragon, or horseradish, or 
bumet vinegar; or strew over the meat car- 
rots and turnips cut into dice, minced capers, 
walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, or 
French beans, &c. 

SAUSAGES, (1) Are composed of va- 
rious kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly 
small, with pounded spices, and aromatic 
herbs, shi*ed fine ; theoe ingredients are put 
into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and 
tied into lengths of firom two to five inches. 
Some persons add to the mixture a glass 
of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other 
wine. 

SAUSAGES, (2) Are best when quite 
fresh made. Put a bit of buttei*, or dripping 
into a clean frying-pan; as soon as it is 
melted (before it gets hot) put in the sausa- 
ges, and shake the pan for a minute, and 
keep turning them (be cai^ful not to break 
or prick them in so doing) ; fry them over a 
very slow fire till they are nicely browned 
on all sides ; vihen they are done, lay them 
on a hair sieve, placed before the fire for a 
couple of minutes to drain the fitt firom them. 
The secret of frying sausages is, to let them 
get hot very gradually ; they then will not 
purst, if they are not stale. The common 

17 



practice to pravent their bunting, is toprick 
them with a fork; but this lets the gravy 
out. You may froth them fay rubbing them 
with cold finesh butter, and li^tly dredge 
them with flour, and pat them in a cheew- 
toester or Dutch oven for a minute. Some 
over-economical cooks insist that no butler 
or lard, &c. is required, their own fat 
being suflScient to fry them: we have tried 
it; the sausages were partially soorclied, 
and had that piebald af^xarance thut all 
fried things have whoi si^&cient fat is not 
allowed. 

Ofrs. — Poached eggs, pease podding, and 
maslied potatoes, are agreeable aooompani- 
mentB to sausa^ ; and sausases are as wel- 
come boiled with roasted poultry or veal, or 
boiled tripe; so are ready-dressed German 
sausages; smd a oonveni«Qt, easily digestible, 
and invigorating food for the aged, and those 
whose teeth are defective. 

N. B. — Sausages, when finely chopped, 
are a delicate " borme bouche;" and require 
very little assistance from die teeth to render 
them quite ready for the stomach. 

SAUSAGES. (3) Take a pound of 
the inward fiit of the pig, and half a pound 
of lean pork ; pick them both from skin and 
sinews, mince them veir finely, grate a large 
nutmeg, take its weight of pounded mace 
and cloves, the largest proportion mace, the 
weight of all of pepper, and twice the weight 
of the spices of salt; chop finely a few sage 
leaves and a little lemon thyme ; mix all well 
together with two large table-spoonfuls of 
crated bread and the yolk of an eg^ beaten. 
It may be put into skints, or packea into a 
jar and tied closely with blaidder. When 
to be used, moisten it with the yolk of an 
egg beaten, make it up in the form of sausa 
ges, flour them, and fry them in butter. 

SAUSAGES, BEEF AND OYSTER. 
See Beef. 

SAUSAGES, TO MAKE. Chop to- 
gether two pounds of lean pork, and one 
and a half of the inward fot of the pig, the 
crumb of a penny loaf cut into slices and 
soaked in cold water; season with pep|)er, 
salt, grated nutm^, lemon thyme, ajid a 
little sage. Mix all the ingredients well, 
and half fill the skins ; boil them half an 
hour. 

SAUSAGES, BOLOGNA. Take the 
less and shoulders of a pig, from which cut 
all the lean, scrape it well, remove all the 
sinews, and rub the meat well with a sea- 
soning made of salt, pej^ier, coriander, 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmieg, and bay-leaf. 
When properly flavored, take some bacon, 
lard, and leaf, and cut the whole into dice; 



SAV 



194 



SCO 



MX the &l atKl lean together, and pot it in- 
to ex-gots, tie ap the end«, and lay die 
aaueages in a pan of water, with rah, and 
sahp^re; oover the pan cloae, and leave it. 
In a week's time take out the eaiisages 
and drain them. Tie them between two 
pieces of wood, hang them up to dry, and 
emoke. When dry, untie mem, and rub 
each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- 
twigs, mixed together. Keep them in a 
dry place. 

SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince small 
the meat of a pArtridge, a capon, or pullet, 
a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and 
a bit of leg of veal ; slired also some parsley, 
diives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these 
all together, and season with pepper, sah, 
beaten spice, and garlic; bind the wliole 
with the yoXks of six, the whites of two eggs, 
and a Utile cream ; when thfuroughly mixeid, 
roll the preparation into thick pieces, which 
wrap in vety thin slices of fillet of veal, well 
beaten widi a rolling-pin; each sausage 
should be about tiie thickness of a man's 
wrist, and of proportionate length Line an 
oval stewpan widi slices of bacon and thin 
beefsteaks, put in the sausages, cover them 
with beefsteaks and bacon, shut the stew- 
,pan very close, and set it on a moderate 
fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it 
stand tesa or twelve hours, then take it oflT, 
and when cold, take out the sausages care- 
fully, remove the veal, and all the &t, with 
a sharp knife cut them into slices, and ser\'e 
cold. 

SAUSAGES, SPREADBURY'S. Cut 
from the leg or griskin one pound of nice 
lean pork, free fit>m siiievrs and skin, mince 
it very finely : mince one pound of the best 
beef suet, mix^it with the pork, and pound 
it as finely as possible in a marble mortar; 
add two KLTg^ table-spooiifuls of stale bread 
rubbed through a sieve, also a good deal of 
pepper, salt, and a little finely-chopped sage, 
mix all together with the yolks of two eg^ 
beaten up. It will keep for sometime, if 
put into an earthen jar and pressed closely 
down. When it is to be used, make it into 
rolls, and as thick as common sausages, and 
tliree or (bur inches long: dust them with a 
little flour; have ready a frying-pan made 
very hoc, and fi'y diem without any thing 
but their own &t, till they are done quite 
through, taking care not to make diem too 
dr^'. By breaking one of them, the cook 
will know whether they are sufiiciently 
ddne. They may be fi*ied in lard or fresh 
beef dripping. 

SAVORY CABBAGE. See Cabbage, 

SAVOY BISCUITS. To be made as 



drop btacoiti, omitting the caraway, and 
quarter of a pound of nour: put it into the 
biscnit-fimnel, and lay it out about the length 
and siae of your finger, on common shop 
paper; strew sugai- over, and bake thmi in 
a hot oven ; when cold, wet the backs of the 
paper with a paste-tHrush and water: whea 
they have lain sometime, take them carefully 
off, and place them back to back. 

SAVOYS, Are boiled in the same man- 
ner as cabbages; quarter them when you 
send them to taUile. 

SCOTCH BARLEY BROTH ; -« good 
and tubetantial dinner for tixpence per 
head. Wash three-quarters of a pound of 
Scotch barley in a little cold water; put it 
in a soup-pot with a shin or 1^ of beef, of 
alxMit ten pounds weight, sawed into four 
pieces (teU the butcher to do this for you) ; 
cover it well with cold water; set it on tlie 
fire: when it boils skim it very clean, and 
put in two onions of about three ounces 
weight each ; set it by the side of the fire to 
simmer very gendy about two hours; dien 
skim all the fat clean off, and put in two heads 
of celery, and a large turnip cut into small 
squares; season it with salt, and let it boil 
an how* and a half longer, and it is ready : 
take out the meat (carefully with a slice, 
and cover it up, and set it by the fire to keep 
warm), and skim the broth well before you 
put it in the tui%en. 

SCOTCH BROSE. This favorite Scotch 
dish is generally made with the liquor meat 
has been boiled in. Put half a pint of oat* 
meal into a porringer widi a little salt, if 
there be not enough in the broth, of which 
add as much as will mix it to die consistence 
of hasty pudding, or a little thicker; lastly, 
take a little of the (at that swims on the 
broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it 
in the same way as hasty-pudding. 

Obe, — ^This Scotsman's dish is easily pre- 
pared at very little expense, and is pleasant- 
tasted and nutritious. 

N. B. — For various methods of making 
and flavoring oatmeal gruel, see Gruel. 

SCOTCH BURGOO. This bumble dish 

forms no contemptible article of food. It 

possesses the grand qualities of salubrity, 

pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fact, 

a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without 

milk ; much used by those patterns of conn 

bined industry, frugality, and temperance, 

the Scottish peasantry; and this, among 

other examples of the economical Scotch, is 

well worthy of being occasionally adopted 

I by all who have lar^e families and small in- 

I comes. It is made in the (oHowing easy $tn<) 

I expeditious manner: — To a quart of oatmeal 



SCO 



195 



SHE 



add gradual two qoarta of tvater, bo that 
the whole may Binootbiy mix : then Btirring 
it coDtiaually over the fire, boil it together for 
a quarter of an hour ; after which, take it up, 
and stir io a liltle salt and butter, with or 
Y. ithoat pepper. This quantity will serve a 
&tmily of five or six peraoos for a moderate 
meal. 

SCX>TS CX)LLOPS. Cut some very 
thin slices of beef; rub with butter the bot- 
tom uf an iron stewpao that has a cover to 
fit quite closely ; pot in the meat, some pep- 
per, and a little salt, a large onion, and an 
apple minced very small. Cover the stew- 
|jan, and let it simmer till the meat is very 
tender. Serve it hot. 

' SCOTCH DUMPUNG. Make a paste 
with some oatmeal and butter, Ibrm it into 
a dumpling, and place a haddock's liver 
in the middle, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt; it should be boiled in a doto. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS. Make the hagffis- 
ba^^ peifectly clean; parboil the drau^t; 
boU the liver .very well, so as it will grate; 
dry the meal bdbre the fire; mince the 
draught and a pretty lai^ piece of beef very 
small; grate about half of the liver; mince 
plenty of the suet and some onions small ; 
mix all these materials very well together, 
with a handfiil or two of uie dried meal ; 
spread them on the table, and season them 
properly with salt and mixed spices; take 
any of the scraps of beef that are left fit>m 
mincing, and some of the water that boiled 
the draught, and make about a choppin (». e. 
a quart) of good stock of it ; then put all the 
haggis meat into the bag, and that broth in 
it ; then sew up the bag; but be sure to put 
out all the wioa before you sew it quite cloee. 
If you think the bog is thin, you may pat 
it in a cloth. If it is a lar|pe haggis, it will 
take at least two hours boihng. 

N. B. — ^The above we copied verbaHm 
from Mrs. Maciter, a celelMated Caledo- 
nian professor of the culinary art, who 
taught, and published a book of cookery, at 
Edinburgh, A. D. 1787. 

SCOTS KALE. Put barley on in cold 
water, and when it boils take o(f the scum, 
put in any piece of fresh beef, and a little 
salt;* let it boil three hours, have ready a 
cullender full of kale, cut small and boil them 
till tender. Two or three leeks may be ad- 
ded with the greens, if the flavor is approved 
of. This broth is also made with salted 
beef, which must be put in water over night 
to soak. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD Take 
two pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well ; 



then mix with it a pound of powder<«i^ar, 
three ounces of candied citron and orang»> 
peel cut into dice, and half a pound of cara- 
way comfits ; put half a pound of butter into a 
saucepan, set it on the fire, and when quite 
melted, mix it with the floor, &c. ; the paste 
being nicely made, roll it out to the thickness 
of half an inch, cut it into cakes, by them 
on white paper, prick and bake them ; tli^ 
should be of a pale cok>r. 

SEA CALE, BOILED. Let it liesome- 
time in cold water, then clean and trim it 
nicely, cutting off any part that may be at 
all gi^een, ana partine it as little as possi- 
ble. Put it on in boiling water, with a lit- 
tle salt. Let it boil half an hour; drain off 
the water. Pare the crust off a slice of 
toasted bread, lay it in the dish, pour over 
it a little melted butter, and serve the cale 
upon it. 

SEED CAKE. Sift two and a half 
pounds of flour, with lialf a pound of good 
white or loaf sugar, pounded into a pan or 
bowl; make a cavity in the centre, and pour 
in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and a ta- 
bleHRpoonnil of thick yeast; mix the milk 
and yeast with enou^ flour to make it as 
thick as cream (this is called setting a 
sponge) ; set it by in a warm place for one 
hour; in the meantime, melt to an oil half a 
pound of fresh buttor, and add it to the other 
ingredients, with one ounce of caraway- 
seeds, and enough of milk to make it of a 
middling stifiiiess ; line a hoof> with paper, 
well rubbed over with butt^; put in the 
mixture; set it sometime to prove in a stove, 
or before the fire, and bake it on a plate 
about an hour, io rather a hot oven ; when 
done, rub the top over with a paste-brush 
djpped in milk. 

SHEEP»S KIDNEYS, BROILED. 

Wash and dry some nice kidneys, cut them 
in half and with a small skewer keep them 
open in imitation of two shells, season them 
with salt and pepper, and dip them into a 
little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side 
that is cut, and be carefiil not to let the gravy 
drop in taking them off the gridiron. Serve 
them in a hot didi, with finely-chopped pars- 
1^ mixed with melted butter; the juice of a 
lemon, pepper and salt, putting a little upon 
each kidney. This is an excellent break- 
fast for a sportsman. 

SHEEP'S UVER. Cut it into slices; 
wash it well, and dry it in a cloth; flour 
and season it with pepper and salt, and Cry 
it in butter, witli a good deal of minced 
parsley and an onion ; add a sufficient quan- 
tity of gravy or hot water to make a sauce, 
and let it stew a few minutes. It ma^ be 



SHE 



195 



SHR 



fried quite phin, and when out into slioee, 
■hould be waabed in milk and water. 

SHEEP'S MINCE. Wash the heart 
and lights very clean ; boil them about half 
an hour ; mince them finely ; mix a piece oi 
Ixitter with flour, brown it in a stewpan, and 
add some of the liquor the heart and lights 
were boiled in. Put in the mince with some 
cliopped onion ; season with salt and pepper, 
C'.tver it closely, and let it stew half an hour. 
Before serving, add a table-epoonfiil of mush- 
roaua ketchup. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. 
Having parboiled the tongues in a little 
stock, split each, give them a few turns in 
some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, 
pepfier, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; 
when wen covered with the latter, lay them 
on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES PIE. Line a 
dish with some good puff paste, and by at 
the bottom of the dish some good forcemeat, 
made crif roasted poultry, suet, parsley chop- 
ped, mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a few 
fine spices; upon this place the tongues cut 
in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, 
a little butter, and a few slices of bacon*, 
put on the cover and bake it; when done, 
take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the 
fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. 

SHEEP'S TONGUES ROASTED. 
Take half a docen sheep's tongues, and hav- 
ing [HX)perly prepared them, laj-d them with 
email /arc2bnt, tie them to a skewei', wrap 
a buttered paper round, and fasten them on 
a spit, and roast them before a moderate 
fire; a little liefore they are done, take off 
the paper, baste the tongues with butter, 
and make them of a nice color. Serve with 
whatever sauce you may prefer. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS STUFFED. 
Boil the feet in good stock till the bones 
will come out with ease; fill the space left 
by tliem with a good fowl or chicken farce; 
dip them in lard, bread them well, and bake 
in a moderate oven. The space left tr^ the 
bones b sometimes filled up with a bit of 
fried bread ; in this case the feet are only 
previously boiled, and then served with 
cream sauce. 

SHEEP'S TROTTERS FRIED. Clean 
some sheep's trotters nicelv, scald and virash 
them in hot water; stew them in that sauce 
in which calf's head plain is boiled, 
and bone them. Fry, but not till brown, 
in a little butter, some carrots, onions, a 
little parsley roots, all cut small, thyme, a 
■haUot, a sioall bay leaf, and a cluve. Wlien 



tfa^ begin to odor, moisten then with 
tOT and vin^ar mixed in equal parte, and let 
it all stew till the vegetables are quite ten- 
der ; season with pq>per and salt, and strain 
it through a silk sieve ova- the slieep's trot- 
ters, then fi-y the trotters in this batter; put 
nearly four tabteHspoonfiils of flour into an 
earthen pan, with a little salt, a little crfive 
oil, and as much good beer or water as will 
moisten the paste; when well mixed, add 
the beaten whites of two eggs, dip the trot- 
ters into this, and £7 them instantly. The 
marinade cuite, or pickle, into which the 
trotters are laid, emd the paste in which they 
are fried, may be used for beef, and other 
meats. The same receipt may be followed 
esoactly for calf's feet. 

SHEIU)ET. This is a delicious bever- 
age, composed (Scream, mixed with various 
articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, 
coflbe, chocolate, fcc, and su^ar, and then 
iced. Sherbet may also be made with the 
juice of various fruits, sweetened to the 
taste. When the liouid is sufficiently lim- 
pid and cold, pour it into a silver, or tin 
torhttiere, and ice it as usual. 

SHERBET, TURKISH. WashasnKdl 
fore quarter of veal, put it on the fire with 
nine pints of water; skim it well, and let it 
boil till reduced to tv^ (Mitts; run it through 
a sieve, Bnd when cold, add to it a pint and 
a half of clear lemon-juice, and two pounds 
of k>af sii^r which has been made into a 
sirup with a pint and a half oi water, and 
cleared with the white of an egg. It is 
served in glass mugs for a dessert table, (V 
offered at any other time as a refrediment. 

SHRUB. (1) One measure of lemon- 
juice is allowed to five *jf rum, and to every 
gallon of the mixture, six pomids of loaf su- 
gar, which is to be melted in water, and the 
whole strained through flannel. 

SHRUB. (2) To one part of lemon- 
juice, three of good orange are allowed, 
and, to every pint of juice, a pound and a 
half of very finely-pounded loaf sugar ; these 
being well mixed, it is put into a cask, and 
one ({uart of the best rum added to each pint 
of the juice; the whole to be shaken three 
times a-day for a fortnight, or kxigM*, if die 
cask be large. It is then allowed to stand 
to fine for a month, or till it be sufficiently 
clear .to bottle. The drcm may be made 
into excellent milk punch, by pouring warm, 
but not boiling, milk on them, allowing three 
parts of milk to one of dregs; afW being 
well mixed, it is fit for use. 

SHRUB. (8) Put a quart of Seville 
orange-juice to a gallon of nuD, with three 



SIR 



197 



SKA 



poodda of kmp Muar, and a faandiiil of the 
peel pared extramm thin; lei it stand in the 
cask for three mootoB, then filter it through 
a cloth, and bottle it 

SHRUB. .(4) Takeaqoartofomnge- 
|iiioe, strain it, pot to it two pounds of lump 
sugar, four quarts and one pint of rum ; pot 
half the peels of the oraiifles into the rum, 
and let it stand one night, uen mix the nun 
with the orange-juice and suoar, put it into 
a vessel which has a spigot, nake it four or 
five times daily till the sugar be all dissolved ; 
wlien it is clour, which may be in about a 
fortnight, bottle it off for use. If the or- 
anges are very ripe, a pound and a half of 
sugar is sufficient. 

SHRUB, LEMON OR ORANGE. The 

rind of the lemons or oranges being grated 
off, they are to be squeezed, and two pounds 
of finely-pounded loaf sugar is to be added 
to every pint of the strained juice; when the 
sugar is quite dissolved, two pints of rum 
are albwed to every pint of sirup ; the whole 
is to be well mixed m a cask, and allowed 
to stand five or six weeks, and then drawn 
off. 

SHRUB, WHITE CURRANT. The 
currants are to be bruised and put into a 
bag to drip; three-quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar is to be dissolved in two quarts 
of juice, and a quart of nun being added, it 
is to be bottled for use. 

SIRUP OF CURRANTS, RASPBER- 
RIES, OR Mulberries. Pick the fi-uit 
frum the stalks ; squeeze the juice, and let it 
stand ten days or a fortnight, or till the fer* 
mentation ceases, which may be known by 
the scum cracking; carefully take off the 
scum, and poor the juice gently into a fresh 
vessel; let it stand twenty-four hoiuv, and 
again pour it off, to one pound of pounded 
Imif su^r allow thirteen ounces of the juice, 
put it mto a pre^aring-pan, and when it be- 
gins to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it when cold. Burie pears boiled, 
in a little of the sirup, are beautiful. 

SIRUP OF ORANGE OR LEMON 
PEEL. Offiresh outer rind of Seville orange 
or lemon peel, three oimces, apothecaries' 
weight; boiling water a pint and a half; in- 
fiise them for a night in a close vessel ; then 
strain the liquor: let it stand to settle; and 
having poured it off clear fi'om the sediment, 
dissolve in it two poimds of double-refined 
loaf sugar, and make it into a sirup with a 
gentle heat. 

0&s.< — ^In making this sirup, if the sugar 
be dissolved in the infiision with as goitle a 
heat as possible, to prevent the exhalation 

17» 



of the volatile parts of the oed, this sirop 
will possess a great share or the fine flavor 
of the orange or lemon peel. 

SIRUP, CLARIFIED. Break into bits 
two pounds (avoirdupois) of double-refined 
lump sugar, and put it into a clean stewpan 
(that is well tinned), with a pint of cold 
spring water; when the sugar is dissolved, 
set it over a moderate fire: beat about half 
the white of an egg, put it to the sugar be- 
fore it gets warm, and stir it well together. 
Watch it; and when it boils take off the 
scum ; keep it boiling till no scum rises, and 
it is perfectly clear; then run it through a 
clean napkin: put it into a close-Rtopfcd 
bottle; it will keep for months, and is an 
elc^g[ant article on the sideboard for sweet- 
ening. 

Cms, — ^The proportion of sugar ordered in 
the above sirup is a quarter pound more than 
that directed in the Pharmacopoeia of the 
London College of Physicians. The quanti- 
ty (^ sugar must be as much as the liquor is 
capable of keeping dissolved when cold, or 
it will forment, and quickly spoil: if kept in 
a temperate degree of beat, the above pro- 
portion of sugar may be considered the basis 
of all sirups. 

SKATE, FRIED. After you have 
cleaned the fish, divide it into mlets; dry 
them on a clean cloth ; beat the yolk and 
white of an egs thoroughly tcujether, dip the 
fish in thb, and then in nne bread-crumbs ; 
fry it in hot lard or drippings till it is of a 
delicate brown color; lay it on a hair sieve 
to drain; garnish with crisp parsley, and 
some like caper sauce, with an anchovy 
in it. 

SKATE, TO CRIMP. Skin the skate 
on both sides, cut it an inch and a half 
broad, and as long as the skate, roll up each 
piece and tie it with a thread ; lay them for 
three hours in salt and water, and a little 
vinegar; boil them fifteen minutes in boiling 
salt and water; before serving, cot off the 
threads. Sauces:— shrimp, batter and an- 
chovy. When the skate are very small, they 
are preferable broiled. 

SKATE, LARGE, DRESSED UKE 
Veal CUTLETS. Crimp, or cut the skate 
m square pieces, roil them in beaten eggs, 
and then in grated bread mixed with chm- 
ped parsley, pepper, and salt; fry than of a 
nice brown color, and serve widi a rich 
brown gravy. 

SKATE, STEWED. Skin the skate, 
cut it into square pieces, and lirown it with 
butter in a firying-pan ; make a rich sanoa 
with the skin and parings, to be boiled in 



SNI 



108 



SOL 



%hree pints of ivnter, with an onion^ ■ome 
pepper and salt; strain and thicken it with 
a Uttie butter mixed with flour, add flonae 
very finely cliopped parsley, and chives; uf 
hot vinegar, mushroom ketchup, and Harvey 
sauce, a tahle-spoonfiil each, and a little 
cayenne ; boil it up and put it in the skate 
five mioutes before sen'ing it. 

SKATE, Is very good when in good 
season, but no fish so bad when it is oUier- 
wise: those persons that like it firm and dry, 
should have it crimped ; but those that like 
it tender, should have it plain, and eat it 
not earlier tlian the second day, and if cold 
weather, three or four days old it is better: 
it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. 
Young skate eats very fine crimped and 
fried. 

SKATE, SMALL, IX) FRY. Qean, 
wash, and lay them one or two hours in vin- 
egar, or vinegar and water, with a sliced 
onion, some chopped parslev, pepper, and 
salt ; drain and dry them well, dip them into 
beaten e^, dredge them with flour, and fry . 
tliem of a fine brown color; garnish them 
with fi-ied parsley. Sauces ; — mehed butta*, 
and shrimp sauce. 

SKIRRETS. Wash and scrape them, 
put them on in boiling water, and boil them 
for ten minutes ; dry them in a cullender, 
and fry them brown m a little butter. Th^ 
are sometimes plain boiled, and a little mel- 
ted batter poured over them. 

SMELTS, TO FRY. This delicate lit- 
tle fish, when perfectly fresh, must not be 
washed, but wiped with a clran cloth, and 
dredged with flour, or brushed over with a 
featlier, dipped into the volk of an egg beat- 
en, and rolled in a piate of finely-grat^ 
l»^d-crumbe, and fried in boiling <h'jpping, 
or fresh lard. Tliey vary in size, and some 
will be done sooner than others. When of 
a clear yellow brown, take them out carefol- 
ly. and lay them before the fire upon the back 
of a sieve to drain and keep hot. Dish 
them, heads and tails alternately; earnish 
with fried parsley. Sauce— melted Dutter. 
They may also be broiled. 

SMELTS, ITALIAN. Boil your smelts 
with a large glass of white wine, Inilf a glass 
of water, two spoonfiils of oil, two slices of 
lemmi, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. 
When sufficient^ done, make a Ikmaon with 
yolks of e^gs, and shred chervil, and serve 
your fish wiUi its own eauce. 

SNIPES. When the snipes have lieen 
|Mcked, they must be singed ov^ a eharcx>al 
■re ; in trussing them press the legs close to 



die side, and pierce the beak tlitviqgh 
tie a slice of baooo over each bicd, ruo a Umg 
iron skewer through the sides, and tie Uieai 
to the spit ; in the meantime out two or three 
slices of bread, according to the number of 
the birds, fiy them of a fine brown color in 
butter; put the birds to roasl, and put the 
fried bread in a dish under them, to receive 
the inside, which will drop after they have 
hung a few minutes; just before tliey are 
roasted sufficiently, cut off the bacon, tbac 
they may take cokv. Serve Uiem on tke 
disii witii the bread under them, and plenty 
of good gravy. S<Hne prder eating liiem 
with butter onW, considering that gtwrj 
takes off from the fine flavor of the bird. 
They should be carved the same as fowls or 
pigeons, and tlie head should be opened, aa 
Botae are fond of the brains. Snipes are 
generally dressed in the same manner aa 
woodcocks. 

SNOW-BALLS, BOILED IN BUT- 
TER. Mix with six well-beaten eggs one 
pint and a half of sour cream, and add fay 
degrees as much flour as will make the bat- 
ter thick enougii for the spoon to stand in 
it; sweeten it with brown sugar, and put 
in a few cardamons ; stir into tiiis mixture 
half a pint of beer, beat it all well to- 
other, and drop it with a deKsert-«poon 
mto some bojlinff lard, or butter. l>r»iH 
them upon a towel before the fire, and ser^ e 
them io a napkin, with sugar sifted over 
them. 

SNOW CHEESE. Sweeten, with poun- 
ded loaf susar, a quart of goo<l creaui ; add 
the strained juice of three lemons, and otie 
ounce and a half of blanched sweet aluiouJs 
pounded, and two table-spoonfols of n)«e- 
water, and one of ratafia. Beat it with a 
whisk till thick, and put it into a shape or 
sieve with a bit of muslin laid into it, and 
in twelve hours take it out. 

SODA WATER. Tartaric acid half 
an ounce, arated soda, half an ounce. Have 
two tumblers about one-third full of water, 
put a tea-spomiful of tiie aofla into one glass^ 
and the same of tiie acid into the utlier; 
when dissolved, mix thou tog^ier, and 
drink it immediately. The two sorts of salu . 
must be kept in separate botjjes, and should 
be bougiU ready powdeivd. 

SOUES OR OTHER FISH, TO FRY. 
An hour before yon intend to dress them, 
wash them dioroi^^ily, and wrap (hem in a 
clean cloth, to make them perfectly dry, or 
the bread-crumbs will not slick to tJiem. 

Prepare some breaxl-ciuuibs, by rubbing- 
some stale hreikd thruugli a colander; or, 
if you M iiili tlu' fibU t^t appeur veiy delicate 



SOL 



199 



SOL 



4nd higUjr ftiirfwn» tfaraogfa • Ihv nsw) or 
QW biaeint powder* 

Beat the yolk and wMte of an e^ weU 
together, on a plate, with a Ibrk; Hour yoar 
wky U> abiorb any moifltnre that may remain, 
«nd wipe it off with a clean icloth ; dip tiiem 
in the egg on both sides aU over, or, what 
18 better, e^ them with a paste-brush ; put 
the egg mi in an even degree over the wliole 
fish, or the bread crumbs will not stick 
to it even, and the uneven part will bum 
to the pan. Strew the bread crumbs all 
over the 6A, so that they cover every part, 
take up the fish hy the head, and shake off 
Che loose cmmbs. The fish is now ready 
for the frytng-pan, into which put a quart 
or more of trash sweet olive oil, or clar- 
ified butter, dripping, lard, or clarified drip- 
pings; be sure that they are quite sweet 
and perfectly clean (the fut ought to cover 
the fish): what we here order is for soles 
about ten inches kxig; if larger, cut them 
into pieces the proper size to help at table ; 
This wiH save much time and trouble to the 
carver: v^ien yon send thein to table, hiy 
them in the same fonn they were before ihey 
were cut, and you may strew a little cuiled 
parsley over them: they are much easier 
managed in the firying-pan, and require less 
fiit: fry the thick pait a few minutes before 
you put in the thin, you can by this means 
only fry the thick part enouffh, without fry- 
ing the thin too much. Very ku-ge soles 
«iionld be boited, or fried in fillets. Soles 
cut in pieces, crossways, about the size of a 
smelt, make a very pretty garnish for stewed 
fish and boiled fish. 

Set the frying-pan over a sharp and clear 
fire ; watch it, ekim, it with an egg-slice, and 
when it boils, i. e. when it has done bub- 
bling, and the smoke just begins to rise from 
die surface, put in the fish: if the fat is not 
extremely hot, it is impossible to fi*y fish 
of a good color, or to keep them firm and 
crisp. 

The best way tr^ ascertain the heat of the 
iat, is to try it with a bit of bread as big as 
a nut; if it is quite hot enough, the bread 
will brown immediately. Put in the fish, 
and it will be crisp and brown on the side 
next the fire, in about four or five minutes; 
to turn it, stick a two -pronged fork near the 
head, and support the tail with a fish-slice, 
and fry the other side nearly the same length 
of time. Fry one sole at a time, except the 
pan is very large, and you have frfenty of fat. 

When toe fish are fi-ied, lay them on a soft 
cloth (old table-cloths are best), near enough 
the fire to keep them warm; turn them 
every two or uree minotes, till they are 
quite dry on both sides ; thiff eommon cooks 
eommonly neglect. It will take ten or fifteen 
minutes, if t^ &t you fried them in was not 
hot enough; when it is, they want very little 



drying. When aolei an fried, Ihfey nil 
keep very good in a dry place for tlirse of 
four days; warm them by han|^ing theM an 
the hooks in a Dutch oven, letting them heat 
very gradually, by putting it s(Hne distance 
firom the 6re for about twenty minutes, or in 
good gravy, as eels, Wiggy's way. 

06s. — ^There are several general rales in 
this receipt which apply to all firied fish: 
we have been very particular and minute in 
our directions; fw, although a fried sole li 
so fiieqnent and fovorite a dish, it is very 
sekkxn brought to table in perfection. 

SOLES, TO BOIL. A fine, fiesh, diick 
sole is almost as good eating as a tnrbot. 
Wash and clean it nicely ; put it into a fish- 
kettle with a handful of salt, and as much 
cokl water as will cover it ; set it on the side 
of the fire, take off the scum as it rises, and 
let it boil gently; about five minutes (accord- 
ing to its size) will be long enough, vmhea 
it be very large. Send it up on a mli-drain- 
er, garnished with slices of lemon and sprigs 
of curled parsley, or nicely-fried smelts, or 
oysters. 

06s. — Slices of lemon are a universally 
acceptable garnish with either fried or broil- 
ed fish: a few sprigs of crisp pansl^ may be 
added, if you wi^ to make it look very 
smart ; and parsley, or fennel and butter, are 
excellent sauces, or cliervil sauce, or anchovy. 

SOLES, TO DRESS MAIGRE. Put 
die fish into a stewpan, with a lai^ onion, 
four cloves, fifteen berries of allspice, and the 
same nf black pepper ; just cover them with 
boiling water, set it where they will simmer 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, according 
to the size of the fish ; strain off the liquor 
in anodier stewpan, leaving the fish to keep 
warm till the sauce is ready. Rub together 
on a plate as much flour and butter as will 
make the sauce as thick as a double cream. 
Each pint of sauce season with a glass of 
wine, half as much mushroom ketchup, a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few 
grains of cayenne; let it boil a few minutes, 
put the fish on a deep dish, strain the gravy 
over it; garnish it with si[>pets of oread 
toasted or fried. 

SOLE, Carp, Trout, Psrch. Eel, 
OR Flounder, to stew. When the fish 
has been properly washed, lay it in a stew- 
pan, with half a pint of claret or Port wine, 
and a quart of good gravy, a large onion-, a 
dozen berries of black pepper, the same of 
allspice, and a few cloves, or a bit of mace: 
cover the fish-kettle close, and let it stew 
gently for ten or twenty minutes, accor d ing 
to the duckness of the fish: take the ^ tf), 
lay it on a hot dish, cover it up, wad diickcn 
the liquor it was stewed in with a litda 



sau 



200 



sauF9 



Hoar, and snaon it with pepper, nh»< 
of anchory, muBbroom ketchup, and a littb 
CliUi Tinegar; when it has boiled ten nun- 
Mcs, itrain it through a tamia, aod pour it 
ov«r the fish: if tlMte is more nooe than 
the durii will hold, tend the real up in a boiK. 
The i-iver trout comeB into season in April, 
and oontinuei till July ; it is a dehcioui fish. 

SORREL, TO STEW, Strip the leaves 
from the BUlkff, wash them well, scaki them 
in boiling water in a silver saucepan, or in 
an earthnm pipkin ; strain and stew them in 
a little gravy till tender. Serve with hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

SORREL, IN GRAVY. Mince, and 
put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, 
parsley, and scallions; add a glass of con- 
$omines set it over a moderate fire, and 
when quite soft, put to it scnne fowl gravy, or 
veal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do 
not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. 

SORREL OMELET. Pick, wash, and 
blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and 
£7 it lightly in a little butter, with shred 
parsley and scallions; then put the sorrel 
into a saucepan, with a little cream ; season, 
and let it boil slowly; in tlie meantime make 
an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, 
thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, 
pour it on the omelet, aod serve it \ery hot. 

SOUFFLET, APPLE. Prepare apples 
88 for baking in a pudding, put them into a 
deep dish, and lay upon the top, about an 
inch and a half thick, rice boiled in new 
milk with sugar ; beat to a stiff froth the 
whiles of two or three eggs, with a little 
sifted loaf sugar, lay it upon ibe rice, and 
bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it 
instantly when done. 

SOUFFLET, RICH. Soak in white 
wine and a little brandy, sweetened with su* 
ear, some slices of sponge cake ; put them 
into a deep dish, and pour over them a rich 
custard ; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
three or four eggs, and with a table-spoon 
lay it over the top in heaps to look rough ; 
brown it in a Dutch oven, and serve quickly. 

SOUFFLET, RICE. Soak in half a 
pint of milk, for an hour, one ounce of rice, 
and the peel of a lemon cut thin ; put it into 
a saucepan, with a little salt, and add by 
d^rees a pint of new milk, and a bit of but- 
ter the size of a vralnut ; stir it till it boil, 
and ifx five minutes after. When cool, add 
the yolks of six ^gs, beaten with two table- 
spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and stir in 
the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and dress 
the sooflkt in the dish like a pyramid. 



Bake it ia «i» oteo. It may be bbk 9 

two fable-spooDfiib of potato (kiur^ which 
mix with a little milk, aiid a little ai<it, and 
then thicken k over the fire with more milk; 
pot a little ornge-flower water, or aiiy other 
peHuroe ; whilst in the oven it may bef^aasd 
with sifted loaf sugar.- 

SOUFFLET, ORANGE. Mix with a 
taUe-epoonfiil of flour a pint of cream, pot 
it into a saucepan, with two spoonfids of 
rose-water, a little cinnamon and orange- 
peel ; ^stir it till it boil ; strain and aweeleo 
It, and when cold, mix in two table-«pooi»- 
fills of orange marmabde ; beat well six 
eggs with a glass of brandy ; mix all togeth- 
er; put it in a buttered shape; place it in 
a saocepaa of boiling water, over a stove ; 
let it boil one hour and a cjuarter without a 
cloth or cover over it. 

SOUPS. Ever? utensil empfcml ia a 
kitchen must be Kept scrupulously clean, 
and a cook ought to take especial care that 
all her saucepans be in good ortler. Brass 
pans are preferable for preserving in, and 
douUe block tin are the best sort in use finr 
avery other purpose^ their covers, dioald he 
made to fit closely, and the tinning alwava 
renewed as soon as it is observed to be 
wearing off. While new, th^ may be 
easily kept clean by washing them regular.ly 
in hot water, and rubbing on them when 

Suite dry, a little whiting with leather or 
annel. After long use, they will require 
occasional scouring with fine sand ; and be- 
fore they are used, they oo§^t always to be 
rinsed out with hot water, and wipe^ with 
a clean cloth, A landlady will find it good 
economy, and iw her advantage in other 
respects, to (Hxivide plenty of stone ware and 
earthen vessels, and also common dishes fijr 
the kitchen, tlutt the table set may not be 
used to keep cold meat on. 

In boiling soup, less water is used in a 
digester than in a common pot, as in a di- 
gester no steam can escape. 

To extract tlie strength from meat, long 
and slow boiling is necessaiy, but care must 
be taken that the pot is never off the boil* 
All soups are betta* for being made the day 
before they are to be used, and they should 
then be strained into eaithen pans. When 
soup has jellied in the pan, it should not be 
removed into'^ another, as breaking it will 
o«»sion its bectmiing sour sooner than it 
would otherwise do ; when in danger of noH 
keeping, it should be boiled op. It never 
keeps Ion? with many vegetables in it. The 
meat usedfor soups or twoths cannot be too 
fresh. When any animal food is |>laiB 
boiled, the liquor, with the additimi of the 
trimmings of meat and poultry, make good 
soups and gravies, as do also 'the bonea of 



SOUPS 



201 



SOOPS 



*tMuAed or broiled meat. The gravies left 
in the diflbes answer fi>r basha, aod the 
liqaor in which veal has been boiled, may 
be made into a glaze by boiling it with a 
ham bone till reduced to a tliini or foiirtli 
party and seasoning it with the necessary 
lierb« and spices. 

In boiling weak soups, the pan diould be 
uncovered that the watery particles may 
escape. Cowshed jelly improves every 
sort of rich soap; and for thickening, tnif- 
iles, morels, and dried imishrooma, may be 
used with auivantage. 

Dii-ections are given with each of the 
following soups for thickening with flour 
and butter, cream and e^ ; aftor the ci-eau 
and eg^ are added, the soup must aot be 
allowed to boil* 

Should brown gravy or mock turtle soup 
be spoflin^r, firesh-made charcoal, roughly 
fKHinded, tied in a little bag and boiled with 
either, wiffl abscnrb the bad flavor and leave 
it sweet and eood. The charcoal may be 
made by simply putting a bit of wood into 
the fire, and pounding the burnt part in a 
mortar. 



ASPARAGUS. This is made 

with the points of asparagus, in the same 
manner as the green pease soup is with 
pease: let half the asparagus be rubbed 
through a sieve, and the other cut in pieces 
about an inch long, and boiled till done 
enough, and sent up in the soup: to make 
two quarts, there must be a pint of heads 
to Uiicken it, and half a pint cut in ; take 
care to preserve these green and a little 
crisp. This soup is sometimes made by 
adding the aqparagus heads to oommoa pease 
floup. 



BEEF, THICK. In eif(ht quarts 



of water boil gently for seven hours, skim- 
caing it weU, a shin, or a leg of beef, and a 
bunch of sweet herbs; strain it the next day, 
take off the (at, 8*»d cut all the gristly and 
sinewy parts from the bones, add them to 
the soup with some leeks, onions, celery, 
pepper, salt, and ten or twdve ounces of 
Scotch barley parboiled; boil it gently fpr 
two or three hours. This stock or jelly will 
iieep good for wedss in cold weather. 



BEEF OR MUTTON. Boil 

vety gently in a closely covered saucepan, 
^Mir quarts of water, with two table^spoon- 
fuls of sifted bread raspings, three pounds 
of beef cut in small {xeces, or the same 
cpnntity of mutton / chops taken from the 
middle of the neck; season with pepper 
and salt, add two tnmips, two carrots, two 
onions, and one head of celery, all cut small ; 
Jet it stew with these ingredients four hours, 
.vhac it will be lAdy to aerve. 



BEET ROOT. Bofl till tender 

two roots of beet, and rub off the riiin with 
a coarse towel, mince them finely, as also 
two or three onions ; add this to five pints 
of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather 
thidc, then stir in three or four tablenspoon- 
fiils of vinegar and one of brown sugar; let it 
boil, and throw in some fi-icandelmns made 
up in the form of corks, and rolled in flour. 



AND BOUILLI. The best 

parts for diis purpose, are the lee or eliin, 
or a piece of tlie middle of a brisket of 
beef, of about aeven or eight pounds' weight; 
lay it on a fish drainer, or when you take it 
up, put a slice under it, which will enable 
you to place it on the dish entire ; put it in- 
to a souppot or deep stewpan, with cold 
water enough to cover it, and a quart over, 
set it on a quick fire to get the scum up, 
which remove as it rises ; then put in two 
carro^, two turnips, two le^, or two 
large onions, two heads of celery, two or 
three cloves, and a fiiggot of parsley and 
sweet herbs; set the pot by the side of the 
fire to simm^ very gendy, till the ,ineat is 
just tender enough to eat ; this will require 
about fom* or five hours. 

Put a large carrot, a turnip, a large onion, 
and a head or two of celery, into the soup 
whole, — ^take them out as soon as they are 
done enough, lay them on a dish till they are 
cold, then cut them into small squares: — 
when the Beef is done, take it OiM earefiil- 
iy, — strain the Sovp through a hair sieve 
into a clean stewpan, take off the fet, and 
put the vegetables diat are cut into the 
soup, the flavor of whidi you may heisbien, 
by adding a table-epoonftil of musunoom 
ketchup. 

If a Thickened Soup is wefbrred, take 
four large tablenapoonfuls of the dear &t 
firom the top'of the pot, and fijur spoonfuls 
of flour; mix it smooth together, then hv 
degrees stir it well into the soup, which 
simmer for ten minutes longer at least,— 
skim it well and pass it through a ianiia, 
or fine sieve, and add the v^tables and 
seasoning the same as directed in the clear 
soup. 

Ke^ the beef hot, and send it up (an a 
remove to the soup) widi ftiely diopped 
panley sprinkled on the top|, and a manOb' 
Doat oi Wow Wow sauce. 



BROWN, WITHOVT MXAT 

Put three quarts or more c^ vater, with a 
sufficient quantity of laspings to thicken it{ 
two or three onions cut acroas, some whofe 
peppo*, and a little salt ; cover it close j and 
let it boil an hour and a half; take it od^ 
and strain it through a sieve; fi^ in butter 
some celery, endive, lettuce^ spinach, fmd 
any other Wbs cot small; thsA take a 



saups 



202 



SOUPS 



I 



•lewpMi (sufficiently large to hold all the 
ingredients,) and put in a good piece of but- 
ter, stick in a little flour, and keep stirring 
till it is colored of a nice browu ; then put 
in tlie horbs and soup ; boil it till tbe bei'bs 
are tender, and the soup of a proper consist- 
ence,, then pour the soup into a tiveeo, and 
send to table; serve with fried bread, either 
in the soup or in a dish. 



BROWN GRAVY. (1) Take 

fifteen pounds of a 1^ or shin of beef, cut oflF* 
the meat in bits, rub the bottom of the pot 
with butter, put in the meat, let it brown 
for nearly an hour, turning it constantly, 
break the bone and take out the marrow, 
which may be kept for a pudding, but it is 
considered better than butter to brown the 
meat with ; put to it (burteen Quarts of coki 
water, and the bones; when it boib, skim 
it perfectly clean, and add six eood'sized 
red onions, one carrot cut in Uiree, one 
head of celery,, a good handful of wliole 
black and Jamaica pepper mixed; let this 
boil very eently ten or twelve hours closely 
covered, if upon a fire, but if done upon a 
hot plate, not to be covered ; strain it through 
a cullender, and then through a hair sieve,, 
into a large pan* to be kept fi>r use. Re- 
turn the meat and bones into the pot with 
tliree or four quarts of hot water ; let it boil 
nearly two hoitfs, and strain it off.. This 
makes good stock for gravies, stews, or 
anv made dishes. 

This gravy soup keeps perfectly good for 
three or four weeks. When it is to be 
boiled to send to table, first boil vermicelli, 
or macaroni, in a little salt and water, tili 
tender; strain it, and add it to the soup 
jiist before serving. This soup is quite 
pure, and requires no clearing. It is a 
most convenient thing to have ii> a house in 
cold ^veaiher, as it is always teady for use; 
and, served with dry toast to eat with it, 
makes an acceptable luncheon. 

The trimmings ofmeat,giblets,and bones, 
may be boiled with tlie beef for tlus soup. 



BROWN GRAVY. (2) Cut 

down three pounds of gravy beef, and put it 
on in a stewpan with three onions cut small, 
and two omices of butter ; let it brown well, 
stirring it to prevent the onions from burn- 
ing; then add four quarts of water, one 
head of celery, of canx>ts and tomips two 
each, with some whole black pepper and 
salt ; boil it gently for four hours ; strain it; 
and the next day take off the &t. When 
it is lieated, add some vermicelli, previously 
boiled in water, and srarve it after boiling 
tm minutes. 



CALF'S HEAD, OR MOCK 

TURTLE. (1) Parboil a calTs head, take 



off the dun and cut it in bits aiboat an nidi 
and a half square, cut tbe fleshy parts in bil^ 
take out the black part of the eyes, and est 
the rest in rings, skin the tongue, aind cut it 
in slices, add it all to three quarts of good 
stock, and season it wi^ cayenne, two sr i 
tliree blades of mace, salt, the peel'of half a i 
lemon, and half a pint of white wine, with I 
about a dozen of forcemeat bails ; stew aD 
tliis an hour and a half, rub down with a 
little cold wat^r, two table-spoonfirls of flour, 
mix well amongst it half a pint of the soup, 
and then stir it into the pot ; put in the 
iuioe of half a lai^ lemon, aud ,tlie bard- 
boiled yolks of eight eggs ; let it simmer for 
ten minutes, and then pat it aU io the tureen. 



CALF'S HEAD. (2) Scald 



and clean thoroughly a calf's head with 
the skin on, boil it an hour g^tly in thrse 
quarts of water, and parboil with it some 
sweetbreads. Cut off the meat, slice and 
frv of a liglit brown in butter two pounds 
of gravy beef, one of veal, and ene of nout- 
too, with five onions cut small ; put all into 
the liquor, adding the bones of the head 
broken; rinse the firying-pan with two 
quarts of boiling water, and put it to the 
meat, and other things, with two whole on- 
ions, and a bunch of sweet h^bs, and twioe- 
their quantity of parslev ; the peel of one 
lemon, four cloves, a little allspice, salt, 
and black pepper, with a slice of the crumb 
of bread dried before the fire; let all this 
stew slowly for five hours, strain it, and 
when cold, take off all the fot. Cut the 
meat of the calf's liead, tongue, and sweet- 
breads, in small square bits, add them to 
the soup, and when it has boiled, mix verv 
gradually with a lai^ tab'e^poonful at 
flour a cupfiil of the soup, and stir it gently 
into the pot ; twenty minutes before serving, 
add a small tea-spoonfol of cayenne, the 
yolks of eiglit or ten hard-boiled eggs, and 
the same numbfu* of forcemeat balls ; a pint 
of white wine, — Madeir9> is the best, — «nd 
just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. 
Forcemeat balls for this soup are made aa 
follows:— Mix the brains with five tabie- 
spoonfub of grated bread, the same of fine^ 
minced beef suet, a tea-spoonfol of salt, one 
of white pepper, the grated peel of a lemon, 
some nutmeg, and boiled parsley chopped ; 
beat the yolks and whites of two eggs, roll 
the balls the size of the yolk of an egg, and 
fi'y them of a li^ Ixowa in boiling drip* 
ping. 



CALF'S HEAD. (8) Take as 

much as is required of not very strong veal, or 
beef stock, in vhich six onions have beeft 
boiled, lxx>wn a quarter of a pound <^ butter 
and thicken it well with flour, then add the 
stock by de|^:ees; when it boils* pot in. the 



SOUPS 



203 



SOUPS 



cair«1ieful, cut in sinall pieces, ^d some fried 
forcemeat bntb'; season it with salt and 
pepper, the peel of half a lemon improves 
H. Wb?n it has boiled twenty mmutes, 
ardd two taUe-spoonfiils of ketchup, three (k 
essence of anchovies, and as mudi lemon 
pickle as will make it a pleasant acid. To 
give the sonp a gdod coloi*, and to enrich the 
flavor, may be added a large table-spoonfiil 
tif flour, mixed perfectly smooth in a tea- 
cupful of coid water, and stirred gradually 
into tiie soup, after which let it boil a few 
minutes. 



heads of celery into slips about two inches 
4ong; wash them well; lay tliera on a hair 
4sieve to drain, and put them into three quarts 
of clear gravy soup in a gallon soup-pot ; set 
it by the side of the fire to stew very gently 
till the celerv is tender (this will take about 
an hour). If any scum rises, take it off; 
season with a littJe salt. 

Obt. — When celery cannot be procured, 
half a drachm of the seed, pounded fine, 
which may be considered as the essence of 
celei"^, put in a quarter of an hour before the 
soup is done, and a little sugar, will give as 
much flavor to half a gallon of soup as two 
heads of celery weighing seveo ounces, or 
add a little essence of celery. 



OOCKY-LEEKy, T»ke a 

scrag of mutton, or shank of vesal, three 
quarts of water (or liquor in which meat has 
been boiled), and a good sized fewl, with 
two or three leeks cut in pieces about an 
indi long, pepper and salt; boil slowly about 



an hoar: then pat in as many more leeks« 
and ffive it three-quarters of an hour kmger: 
this n very good, made of good beef stock, 
and ledis put in at twice. 



CARROT. Scrape and wauh 

lialf a dozen larae carrots ; ped off the red 
outside (which is the only part used for this 
eoup) ; put it into a i^allon stewpan, with 
one head of celery, and an onion, cut into 
^in pieces ; take two quarts of beef^ veal, 
or mutton broth, or if you have any cold 
roai4t beef bones (or liquor, in which mutton 
or Ijeef has been boiled),' you may make very 
good broth for this soup*: when you have 
put the broth to the roots, cover the stewpan 
close, and set it on a slow stove for two 
liours and a half, when the carrots will be 
«oft enough (some cooks put in a tea-cupfiil 
of bread-crumbs); boil for two or three 
minutes; rub it through a tamis, or hair 
«ieve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much 
brotii as will make it a proper thickness, 
4. «. almost as thick as pease soup: put it 
into a clean stewpan; make it hot; season 
it with a little salt, and send it up with 
4Bome toasted bread, cut into pieces half aa 
inch square. Some pot it into the soup; 
but the best way is to send k up on a {date, 
as a side disli. 



CELERY. Split half a dozen 



CRAWFISH. This soap is 

sometimes made with beef, w veal broth, or 
with fish, in the following manners Take 
flounders, eels, ffudgeons, &c., and set them 
on to boil in coM water ; when it is pretty 
nigh boiling, skim it well; and to three 
quarts put in a couple of onions, and as many 
carrots cut to pieces, some parsley, a dozen 
berries of blade and Jamaica pepper, and 
about half a hundred craw-fish; take off the 
small claws and shells of the tails; pound 
them fine, and lx>ii them with the broth 
about an hour; strain ofi*, and break in 
some crosls of bread to thicken it, and, if 
you can get it, the spawn of a lobster; pound 
It, and put it to the soup; let it simmer ver} 
gently for a couple of minutes ; put in yom- 
craw-fish to get hot, and the soup is ready. 



CRESSY. (1) Wash dean. 



and cut small, eight carrots, eight turnips, 
three heads of celerV) and six onions ; put 
them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound 
of butter and a slice of bam, stew them 
gently for an hour, stirring tliem constantly: 
when they begin to i)rown add as much 
gravy soup as will fill tlie tureen ; let it boil 
till the vegetables are sufficiently tender to 
pdp with a spoon through a sieve, after 
which put it on the fire and boil it half an 
hour, skin, and season it with pepper and 
salt. This soup should be as thick as melt- 
ed butter. Two pounds of beef boiled in 
four quarts of water till reduced to three, 
will answer for the soup. 



CRESSY. (2) Slice twdve 



large onions, and fry them pretty brown in 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; scrape 
and clean two dozen of good red carrots, 
boil them in four quarts of water till quite 
sofl; fjound them in a marble mortar, mix 
them with tlie onions and add the liquor in 
which the carrots were boiled, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, a blade of mace, 
and two or thiee cloves ; let them all boil 
about an hour, then rub them through a hair 
sieve; put it on again to boil rather quickly, 
till it be as thick as rich cream. Put a lit- 
tle dry boiled rice in the tureen, and pour 
the soup over it. If the carrots are Isu^, 
one dozen will be found sufilcient. 



CUC^UMBER. Make some 

Ixoth with a neck of mutton, a thick slice 
of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three 
cloves, a carrot, two turnips, some salt, and 
a bunch of sweet herbs; strain it; brown 
with an ounce of butter the crumb of a 



SOUPS 



204 



SOUPS 



Frencb roll, to which pat ibor large cocum- 
bera, and two beads of lettuce cut amaU; let 
tbem stew a quarter of an hoar, and add to 
them a quart of the bix>th; when it boils 
put in a pint of gnen pease, and as it stews, 
add two quarts man of the broth. 



CURRY, OR MULLAGA. 



TAWNY. Cut four pounds of a breast of 
veal into pieces, about two inches by one ; • 
put the trimmings into a stewpan widi two 
quarts of water, with twelve corns of black 
pepper, and ihe same of all^ioe; when it 
twils, skim it clean, and let it boil an hour 
and a half, then strain it off; while it is 
boilbg, frv of a nice brown in butter the 
bits of veal and (bur onions ; when they are 
done, put the broth to them ; put it on the 
fire; when it hoik, skim it clean; let it 
simmer half an hour ; then mix two spoon- 
fiila of cony, and thd- same of flour, with a 
little cold water and a tea-epoonful of salt; 
add these to the soup, and simmer it gently 
till the veal is quite tender, and it is ready ; 
or bone a couple of fowb or rabbits, and 
stew them in the manna* directed above for 
the veal, and yon may put in a bruised es* 
cfaalot, and some mace and ginger, instead of 
black pepper and allspice. 



CURRY. Mince ^mall three 

or four onions, according to their size, put 
them into a saucepan with two oimces of 
butter, dredse in some flour, and fry tliem 
till of a liglit brown, taking care not to 
burn them ; nib in by degrees a large table- 
spoonful and a half of curry-powder, till it 
be quite a paste; gradually stir in tbi-ee 
quarts of gravy soup, mixing it well togetli- 
er; boil it gently till it be well flavored 
with the curry-powder ; strain it into anotli- 
er saucepan, and add a fowl skinned and 
cut in small pieces, dividing each joint; 
stew it slowly an hour. In half a pint of 
the soup put a large table-spoonfiil of tama- 
rinds, and stew them so as to separate the 
stalks and stones ; strain and stir it into the 
soup with half a lea-spoonful of salt, and 
boil it for fifleen minutes before sei-ving. 

EEL. To make a tureenful, take 



a couple of middling-eized onions, cut tbem 
in half, and cross your knife over them two 
or tliree times; put two ounces of butter 
into a stewpan, when it if> melted put in the 
onions, stir tliem about till they are lighllv 
browned; cut into pieces three pounck of 
eels, put them into your stewpan, and shake 
them over the fire for five minutes ; then add 
three quarts of boiline water, and when they 
come to a boil, take the scum ofl" very clean ; 
then p:jt in a quarter of an ounce of the 
green leaves (not dried) of winter savory, 
Uie same of lemon thyme, and twice the 



qmuitity of parslevy two drvchmi of aOquee^ 
the same of black pepper; cover it cloee, 
and let it boil gently for two hours; then 
strain it oflT, and skim it very clean. To 
thicken it, put three oanoes of butler into a 
clean stewpan ; when it is melted, stir in as 
much flour as will make it of a stiflf paste, 
then add the liquor by degrees ; let it simmer 
for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve; 
then put your soup on in a clean stewpan, 
and nave ready some little scyuare pieces of 
fish fried o^ a nice light brown, either eels, 
soles, plaice, or ^ate wiO do; the fi-ied 
fish should be added about ten minutes be- 
fore the soup is served i^ Forcemeat balb 
are sometimes added. 



GIBLET. Clean very nicely 



two sets of giblets, parboil them. Take the 
skin off the feet; cut the gizzards in quar* 
ters, the necks in three bits, the feet, pin- 
i<Mis, and livers, in two, the head in two 
also, first taking off the bill ; Iwil them till 
nearly done enough in a quart of weak gravy 
soup with an onion. Have ready boiling 
some ricli highly-seasoned brown gravy soup ; 
add the giblets and the liquor they liave beei» 
boiled in, with some choppe<i parsley ; take 
out the onion, and thicken tlie soup with a 
bit of butter kneaded in flour. If the giblets 
are not -perfectly sweet and fresh, do not add 
the weak soup they wei^e boiled in. Half a 
pint of wine may be added a little before 
serving, but it is very good without. 



GOURD, Should be made of 

full-grown gourds, but not those that have 
liard skins; slice three or four, and put thcin 
in a stewpan, with two or three onioni^, and 
a good bit of butter ; set them over a slow 
file till quite tender (be carefiil not to let 
them burn) ; then add two ounces of crust of 
bread, and two quarts of good consomme ^ 
season with salt and cayenne pepper: boil 
ten minutes, or a quai'ter of an hour ; skim 
off all the fat, and pass it through a tainis ; 
then make it quite hot, and serve up witb 
fried bread. 



GRAVY, CLEAR. Ckit half a 



pound of ham into slices, and lay them at 
the bottom of a large stewpan or stockpot, 
with two or tbi'ee pounds of lean beef, and 
as much veal i break the bones, and lay them 
on the meat; take off the outer fkin of two 
large onions and twd turnips; wash, clean, 
and cut into pieces a couple of lai^ carrots, 
and two heads of celery ; and put in three 
cloves and a large blade of mace. Clover 
the stewpan close, and set it over a smart 
fire. When tlie meat begins to stick to the 
bottom of the stewpan, turn it; and whan 
there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom of 
tlie stewpan, cover the meat with hot wate^ 



soui»s 



205 



SOUPS 



vp^tch It, ind wliien it is coming to boil pnt 
Vi hair a pint of cold water ; lake off tlie 
«cum; dien |nit in half a piot more cold 
Vfzter, and skim it again, and continue to 
do ro till no more scum rises. Now set it 
on one side of tbe fii^ to boil gently for about 
four Itom-s; strain it through a clean tamia 
or napkin (do not squeeze it, or the soup 
will be thick) into a clean stone pan; let it 
"" remain till it is cold, and then remove all tlie 
iat. When you decant it, be careful not to 
disturb the settlings at tite bottom of the 
pan. 

The brolb sliould be of a fine amber color, 
and as clear as rock water. If it is not 
<qnite so bright as you wish it, put it into a 
stewpan; break two whites and shells of 
^gs into a basin; beat them well together; 
fiat them into the soup:. set it on a quick 
fire, and stir it with a whisk till it boils; 
then set it on one side of tlie fire to settle 
lor ten minutes; run it dirough a fine napkin 
into a basin, and it is ready. 

However, if your broth is carefully skim- 
med, &C. according to the directions above 
given, it will be clear enough without clari- 
fying; which process irapanv the flavor of 
it in a higher proportion than it improves 
its appearance. This is (he basis of almost 
all gravy soups, which are called by the 
name of the vegetables that are put into them. 
Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few 
leaves of chervil,* make wiiat is called spring 
eoup, or soup sante; to this a pint of green 
pease, or asparagus pease, oi Frencli beans 
cut into pieces, or a cabbage lettuce, are an 
improvement. With rice or Scotch barley, 
witli macaroni or vermicelli, or celery cat 
into lengths, it will be the soup usually call- 
ed by thofe names. Or turnips scooped 
round, or young onions, will give you a clear 
turnip or onion soup; and all these ^vegeta- 
bles mixed together, soup G res si. Tthe 
roots and vegetables you use must be boiled 
first, or they will impregnate the soup with 
too strong a flavor. Tlie seasoning for all 
these soups is the same, viz. salt and a veiy 
little cayenne pepper. 



^gs mixed with half a pint of cream; stmhi 
through a sieve; put your soup on the fire, 
and as it is coming to boil, put in Che eggs, 
and stir well with a wooden spoon; do not 
let it boil, or it will curdle. 



HARtl. Cut the hare in joints 



as (or a fricassee, and put it in a stewpan, 
with a little allspice, three blades of mace, 
some salt, and whole black pepper, a bunch 
of parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, one of 
winter savory, four quarts of water, a slice 
of ham, and four pounds of lean btef, two 
carrots, and four onions cut down; let it 
boil till it be reduc^ to three quarts; sepa- 
rate tlie hare, and strain the soup over it, 
and add a pint of Port wine; boil it up be- 
fore serving. 

HERB. Wash and cut small 



twelve cabbage lettuces, a handfiil of chervil, 
one of purslane, one of parsley, eight lai^ 
green onions, and thi^ee handfuls ^ sorrel; 
when pease are in season omit half the quanti- 
ty of sorrel, and put a quart of young green 
pease; ptit them all into a saucepan, with 
lialf a pound of butter and thr^ carrots cut 
small, some salt and pqiper; let them stew 
closely covered for haJf an hoar, shaking 
them occasionally to prevent their adhering 
to the pan; fry in butter six encumbers cut 
longways in four pieces ; add them with four 
quarts of hot water, half a French roll, and 
a crust of bread toasted upon both sides ; 
and let the whole boil till reduced to three 
quarts, then strain it through a sieve ; beat 
up the yolks of four eggs with half a pint 
of cream, and stir it gently into the soup just 
before serving. 

HERB POWDER, OR VEG- 



GAME. In the game season, it 

is easy for a cook to give a very good soup 
at a very little expense, by taking all the 
meat off the breasts of any cold birds which 
have been lefl the preceding day, and pound- 
ing it in a mortar, and beating to pieces the 
legs and bones, and boiling them in some 
broth for an hour. Boil six turnips; mash 
them, and strain them through a tamis cloth 
with the meat that has been pounded in a 
mortar; strain your broth, and put a little 
of it at a time into the tamis to help you to 
etrain all of it through. Put your soup-ket- 
tle near the fire, but do not let it boil: when 
ready lo diuh your dinner, have six yolks of I 

18 



ETABLE RELISH. Dried parsley, win- 
ter savoi-y, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, 
of each two ounces; lemon-peel, cut very 
thin, and dried, and sweet basil, an ounce 
of each. Some add to tlie above bay-leaves 
and celery-seed, a drachm each. Dry them 
in a warm, but not too hot Dutch oven: 
when quite dried, pound them in a mortar, 
and pmss them through a double hair sieve ; 
put them in a bottle closely stopped, they 
will retain their fi*agrance and flavor for 
several months. 

Obs. — ^Tbis composition of the fine aro- 
matic herbs is an invaluable acquisition to 
the cook in those seasons or situations when 
fresh herbs cannot be had ; and we prefer it 
to the ragout powder. It impregnates sauce» 
soup, &c. with as much relish, and renders 
it agreeable to the palate, and refreshes the 
gustatory nerves, without so much risk of 
offending the stomach. . 

INVAUD. Cut in smaO piece* 



SO0P& 



206 



SOUPS 



OM pomd of beef ormottoo, or part of both ; 
boil it geotly in two qpartB of waier ; take 
off tbe Bcnin, and wbeo reduced to a pint, 
■Otain it. Season with a little salt, and take 
a tea-cupful at a time. 



LOBSTER. (1) Cbt amaB a 



doien of common-sized onions, put tbem into 
a stewpan with a smafl bit i^ butler, a slice 
or two of lean ham, and a slice of lean beef; 
wiien the onions are quite soft, mix gradu- 
al with them seme rich stock ; let it boil, 
and strain it through a Goe hair sieve, press- 
ing the pulp of the onions with a wooden 
spoon; then boil it weO, skimmins it all the 
time. Beat the meat of a boiled cod, the 
spawn and body o( a lai^ lobster, or of two 
■mall ones, m a marUe mortar ; add grad- 
oally to it the soup, stirring it till it is as 
smooth as cream; let it boil again and scum 
it. Cut the tail and the ckiws of the k>beter 
into pieces, and add them to the soup before 
senring it, and also some pepper, cayenne, 
white pepper, and a glass of white wine. 
FcMcemeat balls may be added to oyster soup 
and lobster soup, made as directed under the 
article ** Forcemeat for fish." 



LOBSTER. (2) You must 



have three fine lively young hen lobsters, 
q>lit the tails; take out the fish, crack the 
claws, and cut the meat into moathfiik: 
take out the coral, and soft part of the body ; 
bruise part of the coral in a mortar; pick 
out the fish from the chines ; beat part of it 
with the coral, and with this make forcemeat 
balls, finely-flavored with mace or nutmeg, 
a little grated lemon-peel, anchovy and cay- 
enne; pound these with die yolk of an egg. 
Have three quarts of veal brotli; bruise 
ibe small legs and the chine, and put them 
into it, to boil for twenty minutes, then 
strain it ; and then to thicken it, take the 
live spawn and bruise it in a mortar with a 
little butter and flour; rub it through a sieve, 
and add it to the soup with the meat of tbe 
lobsters, and the remaining coral; let it 
simmer very gendy for ten minutes; do not 
let it t)oil, or its fine red color will imme- 
diately hde ; turn it into a tureen ; add the 
Juice of a good lemon, and a little essence 
of anchovy. 



LORRAIN. Boil in four quarts 

of water a knuckle of veal, one pound of 
lean beef, and one pound of mutton, a car- 
rot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a little 
lemon thyme, some salt and white pepper, 
till reduced to three, then strain the liquor ; 
pound very finely in a marble mortar, all tbo. 
white meat of a large roasted fowl, with a 

rirter of a pound of blanched almonds, and 
yolks of lour hard-boiled eggs; boil in 
milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound 



It with the other ingredients,, and fltir it aff 
weQ into the soup; let it boil gently for ten 
minutpj b^bfe serving. 



M ATGRE, OR VEGETABLE 

GRAVY. Pot into a ^Jlon stewpan diree 
ounces of butter; set it over a slow fire; 
while it is melting, slice four ounces of 
ooion ; cut in small pieces one turnip, one 
carrot, and a head (^celery ; pot them iu tbe 
stewpan, cover it close, let it firy till they are 
lightly browned; diis will take about twen- 
^-five minutes: have ready, in a saDoepan, 
a pint of pease, with fornr qjoarts of w^ter ; 
when the roots in the stewpan are quite 
brown, and the pease come to a boil, put the 
pease and water to them ; put it on the fire ;: 
when it boils, skim it clean, and put in a 
crust of bread about as big as the top of a 
twopenny toaf, twenty-four berries of all- 
spice, the same of black pepper, and two 
bkules of mace; cover it close, let it simmer 
gently for one hour and a half; then set it 
from the fire for ten minutes; thai pour it 
off very gently (so as not to disturb the sedU 
ment at the bottom of the stewpan) into a 
large basin ; let it stand (about two hours) 
till it is quite clear: while this is doing,, 
shred one large turnip, tbe red part of a 
large carrot, diree ounces of onion minced,, 
and one large head of celery cut into small 
bits ; put the turnips and carrots on die fire 
in cold water, let them boil five minutes^ 
then drain them on a sieve, then pour off the 
soup clear into a stewpan, put in the roots, 
put the soup on the fire, let it simmer gently 
tin the herbs are tender (from thirty to forty 
minutes), season it witli salt and a little 
cayenne, and it is ready. You may add a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. You 
will have three quarts of soup, as Well color- 
ed, and almost as well flavored, as if made 
with gravy meat. To make diis it reqiiiiTi» 
nearly five hours. To fry die herbs requiiTs 
twenty-five minutes ; to boil all together, one 
hour and a half; to setde, at the least, two 
hours ; when clear, and put on the fire aguiii^ 
half an hour more. 



MACARONI. (1) Boil f«»r three 

hours very quickly, in five quarts of water» 
seven pounds of veal, a little salt, a dessert- 
spoonful of white pepper, and three or four 
blades of mace ; strain it off, put it into a 
saucepan, and keep it hot upon a stove. 
Mix five table-spoonfiils of flour with two 
ounces of butter, put it into an iron -tinned 
saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it be 
melted ; add half a pint of the strained stock, 
and then gradually mix the whole togedier, 
and keep stirring constantly till it thickens, 
and then add two ounces and a half of mac- 
aroni, previously t)oi]ed in milk and water 
for eight minutes ; stir it again till it boil. 



SOUPS 



207 



SOUPS 



Take tbe pan off the stove, and etir in fay 
"degreeB about three-quarters of a pint of rich 
4Bweet cream, and just let it boil uefore ser- 
ving. 

MACARONI. (2) Make a good 

ctock with a knuckle of veal, a little sweet 
marjoram, pansl^, some salt, white pepper, 
three blades of mace, and two or three on- 
ions ; strain and boil it. Break in small bits 
a quarter of a pound of macaroni, and gently 
«immer it in milk and water till It be swell- 
^ed and is lender ; strain it, and add it to the 
«oup, which thicken with two table-^pocmfuls 
■of flour, mixe^ in half a pint of cream, and 
£tiiTed gradually Into the soi;^ Boil it a few 
jninutes before sending. 

MOCK TURTLE. Endeavor 

ito have the head and the broth ready for the 
soup, the daj before it is to be eaten. It 
^vill take eight hours to prepare it properly. 

hour*. 

C^leanin* and soaking the head 1 

To parboil it to cut up 1 

Oooling, neariy 1 

Making tbe broth and finishing the soup 5 

8 
Get a calPs head with ttue skin on (the 
fresher the better); take out the brains, 
-Mrash the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak for about an hour in spring water, 
^hen lay it in a stewpan, and cover it with 
-cold water, and half a gallon over ; as it be- 
comes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, 
■which must be immediately removed ; let it 
Imtl gently for one hour, take it up, and when 
almost cold, cot the head into pieces about 
-an inch and a half by an inch and a quarter, 
and the tongue into mouthfuls, or rather 
^make a side-disli of the tongue and brains. 

When the head is taken oat, put in the 
-stock meat, about five pounds of knuckle of 
-veal, and as much beef; add to tlie stock ail 
the trimmings and bones of the head, skim 
it well, and then cover it close, and let it 
"hoil five hours (reserve a couple of quarts of 
this to make gravy sauces); then strain it off, 
and let it stand tiH the nex;t morning ; tlien 
take off the fat, set a lai^e stewpan on the 
-fire with half a pound of ^ood fresh butter, 
twelve ounces of onions sliced, and four oun- 
ces of green sage ; chop it -a little ; let these 
^ one hour ; th^ rub in half a pound of 
-6our, and by degrees add your brodi till it is 
the thickness of cream; season it with a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice and 
-lialf an ounce of black pepper ground very 
fine, salt to your taste, and the rind of one 
'4anon peeled very thin-; let k simmer very 
^ntly for one hour and a half, then strain it 
throng a hair sieve ; do not rub your soup 
to get it through the sieve, or it will make it 
^routv; if it does not run through easily. 



knock your woodas spooo against tbe side 
of your sieve; put it in a clean stewpan with 
the head, and season it by adding to each 
ffallon of soup half a pmt of wine ; this should 
be Madeira, or, if you wish to darken the 
color of your soup, claret, and two taiblo- 
spoonfols of lemon-juice; let it simmer gently 
tin the meat is tender; this may take from 
half an hour to an hour: take care it is not 
over-done ; stir it frequently to prevent the 
meat sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, 
and when the meat Is quite tender the soup 
is ready. 

A head weighing twenty pounds, and ten 
pounds of stock meat, will make ten quarts 
of excellent soup, besides the two quaits of 
stock you have put by for made dishes. 

06a. — If there }s more meat on the head 
tlian you wish to put in the soup, prepare it 
for a pie, and, with the addition of a calPs 
foot boiled tender, it will make an excellent 
ragout pie ; season it with zest, and a little 
minced onion, put in half a tea-cupflil of 
stock, cover it with puff paste, and bake it 
one hour: when the soup comes from table, 
if there is a deal of meat and no soup^ put it 
into a pie-dish, season it a little, and add 
some little stock to it; then cover it willi 
paste, baike il one hour, and you have a 
good mock turde pie. 

To season it, to each gallon of soup pot 
two table-spoonfols of lemon-juice, same of 
mushroom Ketchup, and one of essence of 
anchovy, half a pint of wine (this should be 
Madeira, or, if jou wish to dsurken the color 
of your soup, claret), a tea-spoonfiil of curry 
po wder^ or a quarter of a drachm of cayenne, 
and the peel of a lemon pared as thin as 
possible; let it simmer five minutes more, 
take out tlie lemon-peel, and the soup is ready 
for the tureen. 

While the soup is doing, prepare for each 
tureen a dozen and a half of mock turtle 
forcemeat balls, and put them into the tureen. 
Brain balls, or cakes, are a very elegant ad- 
dition, and are made by boiling the brains 
for ten minutes, then putting them in cold 
water, and cutting them into pieces about as 
big as a large nutmeg; take savory, or lemon 
thyme dried and finely powdered, nutmeg 
grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them 
all together; beat up an e^, dip the brains 
in it, and then roll them in this mixture, and 
make as much of it as possible stick to them<; 
dip them in the egg ag^in, and then in finely- 
grated and sifted bread-crumbs; fry them in 
hot fat, and send them up as a side dish. 

A veal sweetbread, not too much done or 
it will break, cut into pieces the same size 
as you cut the calTs liMead, and put in the 
soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, 
is a superb " bonne bouche;" and pickled 
tongue, stewed till very tender, and cut into 
mouthfok, is a fitvoritCLaddition. We wder 



SOUFS 



208 



SOUP5 



ifvB meat to be cut into moudafidi, that it 
may be eaten with a spooo: the luiife and 
f>rR have no busineai in a KNip-plale. 

N. B. — In helping this soap, the distii>- 
buter of it should serve out the meat, ibrce- 
neat, and gi'avy, in equal parts ; however 
trifling or needless this remark may af^iear, 
the writer has often suflb:ed from the want 
of such a hint being given to the soup-serv- 
er, who has sometimes sent a plate of mere 
gravy without meat, at olhers, of meat with- 
out gravy, and sometimes scarcely any thing 
but foroemeat balls. 

Ob$. — This is a deficiouB soap, within 
the reach of those who **eat to live;" but 
if it bad been composed expressly lor those 
who only ** live to eat," I do not know how 
it could have been made more agreeable: as 
it is, tlie bver of good eating wUl " wish his 
throata mile long, and every mch of it palate." 



MOCK MOCK TURTLE. Line 

the bottom of a stewpnn that will hold five 

Eints, with an ounce of nice lean bacon or 
ajD, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, 
a cow-heel, the inner rind of a carrot, a eprig 
of lemon thyme, winter savory, three times 
file quantity of parsley, a few grera leaves 
of sweet basij, and two eschalots; put in a 
large onion, with four cloves stuck in it, 
eighteen corns of allspice, the same of Uack 
pepper ; pour on these a quarter of a pint 
of cold water, cover the stewpan, and set it 
•n a slow fire, to boil gently for a quarter 
of an hour ; then, for fear the meat should 
catch, take off the cover, and wratch it ; and 
when it has got a good brown color, fill up 
the stewpan with boiling water, and let it 
simmer very gently for two hours: if you 
wiKh to have the foil benefit of the meat, 
only stew it til) it is just tender, cut it into 
moiithfuls, and put it into the soup. To 
tliicken it, pour two or three table-spoonfob 
of flour, a ladlefol of the gravy, and stir it 
quick till it is well mixed; pour it back in- 
to the stewpan where the gravy is, and let 
it simmer gently for half an hour longer; 
skim it, and then strain it tturou^ a tamis 
into the stewpan: cut the cow-heel mto 
pieces about an inch square, squeexe through 
H sieve the jui6e of a lemon, a table-spoon- 
fol of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of 
salt, half a tea-spooufol of ground black 
pepper, as much grated nutmcs as will Ke 
on a sixpence, and a glass of Madeira or 
t^lierry wine; let it all simmer together for 
five minutes longer. Forcemeat or ^g balls 
may he added if you please. 

A pound of veal cutlet?, or the belly pait 
ef pickled pork, or nice diouble tripe cut in- 
to pieces about an inch square, and half an 
inch thick, and rounded and trimmed neat- 
ly from all skin, gristle, &c. and stewed till 
tiLey are tender, will be a gfeat addition. 



MOOR-FOWL. It may be 

made with or without brown eravy 



when with the former, bix birds are suffil 
cient, when with noor-fowl only, boil five in 
four quarts of water, pound the hrcasfs io m 
mortar and mb it through a sieve, pat U 
with the 1^, backs, and tlicee more moor- 
fowl, cat down in joints, into the liquor, 
season with a pint of Port wine, |.e| { ei , 
and salt, and let it boil an hot r. \\ Imn 
on>]r six birds are wed, pound Uk bcvaatv 
of three or four. 



MULLAGATAWNY. (1> Put 



half a pound of fresh butter, >*'ith six large 
<nii(Mis sRced, three cloves of garKc, some 
chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, inta 
a stewpan, let it stew over a sfow fire till 
of a light brown color; cut in small pieces 
five pounds of lean beef, and let that »tew 
tiU the gravy be extracted, and then pat in 
three quarts of boiling water, and half a 
pound of Scotch barley, and let it simmer 
four hours very slowk; mix four table- 
spoonfols of curry-powder with coU waCer, 
and add it to the stock; take out the beef, 
and rub the barley throusb a sieve, to thick- 
en the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, 
and pat it io a stewpan widi a piece of but- 
ter, and let it stew till quite tender; the 
stewpan most be kegt dosely covered: thi» 
to be added to the soup, tlie last thing, with 
a pint of boiling milk, and the juice of two 
leawns. Boiled rice must always be £er\ed 
with this soup. 



MULLAGATAWNY. (2> 

Make a strong stock of the hemes of roasted 
beeC mutton, and fowl; while k i^ prqmr- 
ing, put into a stewpan, with six oonees of 
butto-, three quarts of sliced ^mip, two 
quarts of carrots, and eight lar;^ onions' 
also sliced; let thou stew upon the stove till 
tender; ihea add three quarts of the pre- 
pared stock, a lal|^ slice of the erumb of 
bread, and two table-epoonfiils of cuiTy- 
powder; let them stew four ok five hours; 
strain it tbrou^ a tammy doth, with 
two wooden spoons, taking care that no 
bones be left amongst tEe v^ptables; if too 
thick to go through, add more stock. Theo 
cut a fowl in pieces?, fij it in a fiyiag-pai* 
with butter, and add it to the soup; after 
it has boiled a little, dnwf it to the side 
of the stove, and let it siaim^^ tlifit the 
grease may be taken off. A little good 
beef stock, in addition to that made of the 
bones will be an improvement. It is some- 
times thickened with whole or §^nound rice» 
instead of bread, and oo^t to be made 
upon a stove. 

ONION. Boil in fiw quarts of 



water six pounds pf a kmicVle of ¥epd» wi^ 



SOUPS 



209 



SOUPS 



m dttMit-ipooiiful of whole white pepper, 
and a few ohdee of maoe^ when the meat 
Is 80 much boiled as to leave the boiie, etraio 
vff the stock. The following day boil nine 
*or ten large Spanish onions in milk and 
"water, tfll sufficiently tender to palp through 
« sieve; take the fat off from the top of uie 
-stock, boil it up, and add the onions with 
about a quarter of a pound of fresh batter 
^vorked with two heaped table-qjoonfub of 
sifted flour of rice, and a little salt; boil it 
^ntly for half an hour, stirring it constantly, 
and a litde befoi-e serving, stir in half a pint 
of rich cream. 



OX-HEAD, Should be pre- 



pared the day before it is to be eaten, as you 
cannot cut the meat off the head into neat 
mouthfuls unless it is cold: therefore, the 
tlay before you want this soup, put half an 
ox-cheek into a tub of cold water to soak 
for a cou{^e of hours ; then break the bones 
that have not been broken at the butcher's, 
and wash it very well in warm water; put 
It into a pot, and cover it with cold water; 
when it boils, skim it very dean, and dien 
put in one head of celery, a couple of carrots, 
a turnip, two lai^ onions, two dozen ber- 
ries of black pepper, same of allspice, and 
a bundle of sweet herbs, such as marjoram, 
lemon thyme, savory, and a handful of pars- 
fey ; cover the soup-pot close, and set it on a 
slow fire; take off the scum, which will rise 
when it is coming to a boil, and set it by the 
fireside to stew very gently for about diree 
hours; take out the mad, lay it on a disk, 
pour the soup througli a fine sieve into a 
ctone-ware pan, and set it and the head by 
in a cool place till the next day; tiien cut 
the meat into neat mouthfuls, skim and strain 
off the broth, put two quarts of it and the 
meat into a dean stewpan, let it simmer very 
gently for half an hour longer, and it is 
ready. If yon wish it thickened, put two 
ounces of butter into a Aewpan; when it is 
melted, th^ow in as much fiour as will dry it 
ap; when they are all well mixed togedier, 
and browned by degrees, pour to this your 
soup, and stir it well togedier; let it simmer 
for half an hour longer; strain it through a 
hair sieve into a d^n stewpan, and put to 
it the meat of the head ; let it stew half an 
hour longer, and season it with cayenne 
pepper, salt, and a glass of good wine, or a 
tabie-epoonful of brandy. If you serve it as 
soup for a dozen people, thicken one tureen, 
and send up the meat in that; and send up 
the other as a clear gravy 90up, with some 
of the carrots and turnips shredded, or cut 
into shapes. 

OX-HEEL, Most be made the 

day before it is to be eaten. Procure an 
ox-heel undreoed, or only scalded, and two 

18* 



that have been boiled as they oraally an fll 
the tripe shops. 

Cut the meat off the boiled heels into neat 
mouthfuls, and set it "fay on a plate; put the 
trimminss and bones in a stewpan, witn three 
quarts of water, and the onboikBd heel cut into 
qaaiters; famish aMewpan with two onions, 
and two turnips pared and sliced ; pare off 
the red part of a couple of large carrots, add 
a couple of eschalots cut in half, a bunch of 
savory or lemon thyme, and double the quan- 
tity of parsley ; set this over, or by the side 
of a slow, steady fire, and keep it cloeely 
covered and simmering very gendy (or the 
soup liqnor will evaporate) for at least sevea 
hours: during which, take care to remove 
die hi and scum that will rise to the surface 
of the soup, which must be kept as dean as 
possible. 

Now strain the liquor dirough a sieve, 
and put two ounces of butter into a clean 
stewpan ; when it is melted, stir into it as 
mudi flour as will make it a stiff paste; add 
to it by degrees the soup liquor; give it a 
boil up; strain it througn a sieve, and pot 
in tlie ped of a lemon pared as thin as po»> 
sible, and a couple of bay-leaves, and the 
meat of the boiled neels; let it go on sim- 
mering for half an hour longer, t. e. till the 
meat is tender. Put in tlie jaice of a lemon, 
a glass of wine, and a table-spoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, and the soup is ready for the 
tureen. 

Those who are disposed to make this a 
more 8ubstanti4l dish, may introduce a 
couple of sets of goose or duck giblets, or 
ox-tailt), or a pound of real cutlets, cut into 
mouthfuls. 



OX-TAIL. Three tails, costing 



about 2d. each, will make a tureen of soup 
(desire die butcher to divide them at the 
joints) ; lay them to soak in vearm water, 
while you get ready the vegetables. 

Put into a gallon stewpan eight doves, 
two or three onions, half a drachm of all- 
spice, and the same of black pepper, and 
the tails: cover them with cold water; skim 
it carefully, when and as long as you see 
any scum rise ; then cover the pot as close 
as possible, and set it on the side of the 
fire to keep gently simmering till the meat 
becomes tender and will leave tlie bones 
easily, because it is to be eaten with a spoon« 
without the assistance of a knife or fork ; this 
will require about two hours:: mind it is not 
done too much: when perfectly tender, take 
out the meat and cut it off the bones, ia 
neat mouthfuls ; skim the broth, and straia 
it through a sieve ; if you prefer a thickei>- 
ed soup, put flour and butter, as directed is 
the preceding receipt; or put two table- 
spoonfuls of the fet you have taken off ths 
broth into a dean itewpan, with as nindi 



S0UF8 



210 



SO0F9 



tfoor a^ win nmlw it into a paste ; pet tbb 
over ihe fire, and stir them well together ; 
then pour in the brotb hv decrees, sUrring 
it, and mixing it with the thickening; 1^ 
h simmer for another half hour, and wlieo 
jrou bare well skimmed it, and it is quite 
smooth, then strain it through a tamis into 
a clean stewpan, put in the meat, with a 
table-spoonftil of mushroom ketchup, a glass 
of wine, and season it widi salt* 

Oba* — If the meat is cut off the bones, 
you must have three tails for a tureen, some 
put an ox-cheek or tails in an earthen 
pan, with all the ingredients as above, and 
send them to a slow oven for five or six 
hours. 



--PEAS, GREEN. (1) A peck of 

oeas will make you a good tureen of soup. 
In sbellii» them, put the old ones in one 
basin, and the young ones in another, and 
keep out a pint of them, and boil thqm 
separately to put into your soup when it is 
finished: put a large saucepan on tlie fire 
half foil of water; when it boils, put the 
peas in, with a handful of salt; let them 
boil till tliey are done enough, i, e» from 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to their 
age and size; then drain them in a colan- 
der, and put them into a clean gallon stew- 
pan, and three quarts of plain veal or mut- 
ton broth (drawn from meat without any 
spices or herbs, &c. which would overpow- 
er the flavor of the soup) ; cover the stewpan 
close, and set it over a slow fire to stew 
gently for an hour ; add a tea-cnpful of bread 
crumlM, and tlien rub it through a tamis in- 
to another stewpan ; stir it with a wooden 
spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little 
more broth : have ready boiled as for eating, 
a pint of young peas, and put tliem into the 
soup ; season with a little salt and suaar. 

Some cooks, while this soup is going on, 
slice a couple of cucumbers (as you would 
for eating) ; take out the seeds ; lay tliem 
on a cloth to drain, and tiien flour tliem, 
and fry them a light brown in a little but- 
ter ; put them into the soup the last thing 
before it goes to table. 

If the soup is not green enough, pound a 
handful of pea-hulls or spinage, and squeeze 
the juice through a cloth into the soup: some 
leaves of mint may be added, if approved. 

PEAS, GREEN. (2) Put a 



pint of old green peas into three quarts of 
water, a slice of the crumb of bread, two 
onions, a sprig of mint, some salt and pep- 
per; boil them till the peas are perfectly 
soft, then pulp them through a sieve ; have 
leady two lettuces stewed tender in butter, 
and a pint and a half of young green peas 
boiled; put them into the soup with a little 
spinach juice, and a. quarter of a pmt of 



the iuice of the youngest pea pods, and boif 
it au together before servmg^ 

PEAS, GBEKN, WITHOUT 



MEAT. Take a quart of ^reen peaa (keep 
out half a pint of the youngest ; boil cbepi 
sepirately, and put them in the soap wb(» 
it is finished) ; put them on in boiUng water; 
boil them leader, and then pour off tfie wa^ 
ter, and set it by to make the soup with: put 
the peas into a mortar, and pound them to 
a mash ; then put them into two quarts of 
tlie water you boiled the peas in; stir all 
weH together ; let it boil up for abouA five 
minutes, and then rub it through a hair sieve 
or famis. If the peas are gwd, it will be 
as thick and fine a v^etabfe soiqp aa need 
be sent to table 



— PEAS, OLD. (1) Pnt a poood 

and a half of split peas on in four quarts of 
water, with roast beef or mutton bones, and 
a ham bone, two heads of celery, aud four 
onions, let them boil tilt the peas be sufii- 
cicntl}' soft to pulp through a sieve, strain it, 
put it into the pot with pepper end salt, and 
boil it nearly an hour* Two or three hand* 
fills of spinach, well washed and cut a little^ 
added when the soup is strained, b a great 
improvement; and in the sumin^ young 
green peas in place of tlie spinach. A tea- 
spoonful of celery seed, or essence of celery^ 
if celery b not to be l»d. 



PEAS, OLD. (2) Boil in five 

quarts of water one quart of split peas, aiP 
ounce of butter, four pounds of beef, two 
carrots, three turnips, four heads of celery, 
three onions, some sah and black pepper; 
boil them till the peas are dissolved and 
will easily pulp, put it all through a sieve^ 
then put the soup over the fire with three 
ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour^ 
and boil a small bit of lean liain in it, till it 
b time to serve; take it out before diahing^ 
and have ready some celery stewed in butter, 
and fried bread cut in dice, and dried mint 
rubbed very fine, to send to table with it. 



PEAS, OLD. (3> Boil in four 

quarts of water a shank of bam, or a piece 
of bacon, and about half a pound of mutton, 
or salt beef, and a pint of ^lit peas ; boil 
all together very gently till the peas are 
quite sof^, strain tlwm through a hair sieve, 
and bruise them with the back of a spoon tiQ 
all b pulped through, then boil the soup gent- 
ly for one hour before serving. Thin slicea 
of bread toasted and cut in dice to be 8erve4 
with it, either upon a dbh or in the soup; 
if in the soup, it should be fried in Imtter, 
and dried mint rubbed fine and sent to table 
in a small dish. It may be abb made with 
fourpence worth of bones, boiled for some 



SOUPS 



311 



SOUPS 



boon in four quarts of water, with a carrot, 
a head c^ oeleiy, three onione, some pepper 
and salt, strained, and the next day the (at 
taken off, and the peas boiled in the liquor 
with a little bit of butter, tiD suflteieody ten- 
dor to pulp throqgh a sieve. 



—  — PEAS, PLAIN. To a quart 
of split peas, and two heads of celery (and 
most cooks would put a large onion), put 
three quarts of broth or soft water; let tbSem 
siimner gently on a trivet over a slow fire 
lor three hours, stirring up every quarter of 
an hour to prevent the peas burauig at the 
bottom of toe soup-kettle (if the water boils 
awa^, and the soup gets too tliick, add some 
boiling wata: to it) ; when they are well soA 
tened, work them through a coarse sieve, 
and then through a fine sieve or a tamis; 
wash out ^our stewpan, and then return the 
soup into It, and give it a boil up ; take off 
any scum that comes up, and it is ready. 
Prepare fried bread, and dried mint, as atr 
reeled in Old Peas (2) and send them up 
with it on two side dishes. 

Obs. — ^This is an excellent iamily soup, 
fHToduoed with very little trouble or expense. 



-PIGEON. (1) Have a strong beef 

stock, highly seasoned, and if for rich soup, 
take six or eight pigeons according to their 
size, wash them cie^, cut off the necks, pin- 
ions, livers and gizzards, and put them into 
the stock; quarter tlie pigeons and brown 
them nicely ; after having strained the stock, 
put in tlie pigeons; let them boil till nearly 
ready, which will be in about half an hour, 
then thicken it with a little flour, rubbed 
down in a tea-cupful of the soup, season it 
with half a grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful 
of lemon juice or of vinegar, and one of 
mushroom ketchup ; let it boil a few minutes 
after all diese ingredients are put in, and 
serve it with tlie pigeons in the tureen; a 
better thickening than fiour is to boil quite 
tender two oC the pigeons, take off all tlie 
meat and pound it in a mortar, rub it through 
a sieve, and put it, with tlie cut pigeons, 
into- the strained soup. To make partridge 
soup, partridges may be substituted for pig- 
eons, when only four birds will be required; 
pound the breast of one. 



PIGEON. (2) Take eight pig- 
eons, cut down two c^ the oldest, and put 
them, with the necks, pinions, livers, and 
gizzards of the others, into four quarts of 
water ; let it boil till the substance be extrac- 
ted, and strain it; season the pigeons with 
mixed spices and salt, and truss uiem as for 
stewing ; pick and wash clean a handful of 
parsl^, chives or young onions, and a ^ood 
deal of spinach ; chop man ; put in a frying- 
pan a quai'ter of a pound of butter, and whoi 



it boib^ mix in a handful of bread crmnbi 
keep irtirrins them with a knife till of a finf 
brown; boifthe whole pigeons till tliey be* 
come tender in the stock with the herbs, and 
firied bread. If the soup be not sufficiently 
hiffh seasoned, add more mixed q>kes and 
salt. 



PORTABLE. Put on, in four 

gallons of water, ten pounds of a shin of 
beef, free from fat and skin, six pounds of a 
knuckle of veal, and two fowls, break the 
bones and cut the meat into small pieces, 
season with one ounce of whole black pep- 
per. Quarter of an ounce of Jamaica pepper, 
and tlie same of mace," cover the pot very 
ck)eely, and let it simmer for twelve or four* 
teen hours, and then strain it. The ibllow<' 
ing day, take off the fat, and clear the jelly 
fi*om any sediment adhering to it; boil it 
gently upon a stove, without covering the 
saucepan, and stir it frequently till it be* 
comes very thick and in lumps about Uie pan* 
Put it into saucers about half full, and when 
cold lay the cakes upon flannel to dry before 
the fire or in the sun ; keep them m a tin 
box, with white paper between each cake. 
About an ounce weight wiU make a pint of 
rich soup; pour boihng water upon it with 
a little saH, and stir it till it dissolves. It 
also answers well for gravies and all brown 
sauces. 



FOR THE POOR. Wash an 

ox-bead very clean ; break tlie hemes, and 
cnt Uie meat in pieces ; put it on in tliirteen 
gallons of water, and a peck and a half of 
potatoes, half a peck of turnips, the same 
quantity of onions, and some carrots ; peel and 
cut tliem all down. A handful of pot herbs, 
and two quarts of oatmeal; season with 
pepper and salt. Cover the pot closely, and 
let It stew till the next morning; add as 
much hot water as may have wasted in boil* 
ins, and let it stew for some hours longer, 
when it will be fit for use. This soup will 
be found veiy good fi>r a family dinner. 

QUEEN. Pound in a marble 



mortar the white meat of three cold roasted 
fowls, and half a pound of sweet almonds 
blanched ; add a little cream whilst pound- 
ing. Boil this witli four quarts of well-sea- , 
soned beef stock, then strain it, and just 
before serving stir in a pint of cream. 



SANTE. (1) Peel four hrg^ 



onions, cut them small, with four white let- 
tuces, a handful of spinach, and a slice of 
grated bread. Stew all these ingredients 
for an hour in a quart of broth and a quarter 
of a pound of butter, then add three pints 
more of broth, skim off all the £it, and xboil 
it a quarter of an hour, season wiUi popper 



SOUPS 



2ii 



SOUPS 



And nU. Before serving, add half a pint 
of ffood cream. A pint of green peas, ad- 
ded with the other T^tables, ia a great im- 
provemmt. 



SANTE. (2) Lay six or eight 



slices of lean ham, with some beef over them, 
at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, 
wilh some partridge-legs, or moor game, or 
chicken, saJt, peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, 
three or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and one 
clove of garlic ; let the whole stew t(M[ether 
till it takes a fine brown color, then fill it np 
with half water, and half good beef stock ; 
add three beads of celery, two good turnips, 
patBley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three 
large onions, and a small bimch of winter 
KHvory ; when the whole is thoroughly well 
done, pass it through a lawn sieve mto a ba- 
sin. Cut two goodnsized turnips and three 
large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness 
of a quill, and an inch and a half long; fry 
these to^>tber of a nice brown color: next, 
shred two cabbage-lettuces, celery, endive, 
sorrel, and chervil; and stew them down on 
n very slow fire with a small bit of butter. 
Wheu done, put them in a sieve with the 
turnips; then put them into a soup-pot, and 
pour the soup from the basin over them ; set 
It on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils, 
set it on one side, and let it simmer for two 
iiours vei^ gently; take the crumb of a 
couple of French roHs, and cut it into round 
pieces, which brown in the oven, and put 
them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon 
them. If you think proper, it may be clari- 
fied, the same as other clear soups; but the 
real Soup de Sante ought not to be clarified. 



SIMPLE. Cut small one pound 

of carrots, one pound of turnips, half a 
pound of onions, one lettuce, a little celery, 
and a handful of parsley; stew tliem for 
twenty minutes with a quarter of a pound 
of butter, some salt atid pepper; then put 
them into three quarts of stock, made with 
two pounds of veal, and add one quart of 
green peas, and let it stew for three hours. 
I^rcss it through a sieve, and boil it up before 
sending it to table. 



SPRING. Put on in four quarts 

of water a knuckle of veal cut down, and a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham, or a gam- 
, mon of bacon ; a quart of green split peas ; 
cut small three or four onions, three turnips, 
a little parsley, thyme, celery, and one lee^ ; 
stew them all together till the peas are very 
soft; take out the meat and press the re- 
mainder through a fine sieve; season the 
soup with pepper and salt. Cut small like 
peas a bunch of tlie tope of asparagus, the 
hearts of two or three cabbages, cutting off 
the top part and the outside leaves, and a 



little green mint, stew dmn tiD tender, 
keeping them of a good green, and add them 
to the soup a quarter of an hcNir before serv- 
ing. If It should not be green enuogh, 
pound some spinach, stjueeze the jmoe 
through a cloth, put about a quarter c^ a 
pint into the tureen, and pour m tlie soup. 
This is tlie best method to make gre^i peas 
soup of a good color. 



STOVE OR SPINACH. Bofl 

in two quarts of water three sliced onions. 
Pick and clean as much spinach as will 
make two large dishes, parboil and put it in 
a cullender, to let the bitter water drip from 
it ; let cold water run upon it for a minute 
or two, and then press out the water. Knead 
two ounces of fresh butter, with a table- 
spoonful and a half of flour, mix it with the 
spinach, which boil for fifteen ihinutes in the 
water and onions, tlien put in half a pint of 
cream or good milk, some salt and peppcur, 
boil it for fifteen minutes more. In the 
season of green peas, a quait added with 
the spinach is a great improvement. It ia 
common to boil a lamb's head and pluck 
with the soup, and send tiiem to table in the 
tureen. The soup is then called Lamb's 
Stove ; but with tlie peas it is quite as good 
without. 

VEGETABLE. Pare and citt 



small one dozen of common-sized oninns, 
five large yellow turnips, two heads of celery , 
and the red part of three large carrots ; wash 
and put them in a stewpan witli two uunced 
of butter, cover it closely; and when tlie 
vegetables are a little soft, add to tlicm four 
quarts of well-seasoned gravy soup made of 
roast beef bones, and let it stew four or five 
hours ; rub it through a tammy, put it on the 
fire, boil and skim it before serving. 



WINTER VEGETABLE. (1) 

Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, 
and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of ^' 
butter or very fi*esh dripping ; toast a crus^ 
of bread brown and hani, put it, with two cm^ 
three heads of celery cut small, some herbsjr 
pepper, and salt, with the firied vegetables, 
into five pints of water, to stew gently {or 
four hours, then strain it through a sieve, 
add a little carrot and celery cut small, and 
some chopped parsley, one anchovy or a red 
herring, and a little cayenne; boil it tiU the 
vegetables are tender. 



WINTER VEGETABLE. (2) 



To every gallon of water allow, when cut 
down small, a quart of the following v^eta- 
bles ; equal quantities of turnips, carrots, and 
potatoes, three onions, two heads of celery, 
and a bunch of sweet herlra ; fry them brown 
in a quurtu- of a pound of butter, add the 



SOUPS 



213 



SOUPS 



water vitfa salt and pepper, and boil it till 
reduced to three quarts, and serve it with 
fried toasted bread. 



VENISON. BoU down in five 

quarts of water two pounds of a shank of 
veal, or fowl, and 6ve pounds of the IxreaBt 
of venison cut smaJl; two or three onicMis 
chopped, some whole white pepper and salt, 
with a quarter oi a ponna ot lean ham. 
Let it stew till it be completely boiled down, 
when all the strength will be extracted; riib 
it throiKh a sieve, thicken it with a little 
butter. Kneaded in flour, and add a pint of 
Madeira, and boil it for a quarter of an 
hour or twenty minutes. 



BROWN VENISON. Cut in 

small pieces six or seven pounds of the 
breast of vaoison, put it in a stewpan with 
two or three ounces of butter; cover it 
closely, stir it once or twice, and let it stew 
an hour. Mix four quarts of cold wato* 
with a pint and a half of the blood, put it 
on the fire in anotlier stewpan, and stir it 
constantly till it boil; then add the stew to 
it with an (Hiion minced small, and a whole 
carrot, some salt, black and Jamaica pep- 
per. If the meat be young, let it boil sent- 
iy for two hours; if old, two and a half will 
be necessaiy. A little before serving, take 
out the carrot and all the bones, leaving a 
little of the meat; mix in half a pint of 
Port wincu and let it boil a short time. It 
may be thickened with a little fiour and 
butter. 



^ VERMICELLI. The day be- 

/ore it is required make four quarts of good 
stock, and boil in it one carrot, one turnip, 
tow onions, one or two parsley roots, three 
blades of mace, salt, and some white pepper ; 
atrain it, and, before using, take off all the 
fill ; boil in some of the liquor the crumb of 
three French rolls till soft enough to mash 
smooth ; boil the soup and slir well in the 
mashed rolls; boil it for a quarter of an 
hour, and, before serving, add the yolks of 
two ^igs beaten with wree table-spoonfuls 
of cream; boil in water two or three ounces 
of vermioelli for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
strain and put it into the tureen, and pour 
the soup upon it. 

WHITE. (1) Boil together a 



luHickle of veal, a fowl, or two diickens 
skinned, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, some 
salt, and a httle whole white pepper ; take 
out the chickens when tender, cut them in 
joints, and add them to the soup when 
strained, beat up the yolks of nine eggs, mix 
them with a pint of cream and a tabw-spoon- 
ful of well-boiled rice ; stir it gradually into 
#ie Boop, and heat it gently Mfore serving. 



A cow-heel that has been previously boiled* 
cut up in pieces, may be uaed instoid of tfas 
chicken^. 



WHITE. (2) Take a good 



knuckle of veal, or two or three short shanks, 
boil it about four hours, with some whole 
white pepper, a little nwoe, salt, two onions, 
and a small bit of lean hain; strain it, and 
when cold take off all the fat and sediment ; 
beat up six yolks of ^gs and mix them with 
a phit of good cream, then pour the boiliiur 
soup upon it by degrees, stirring it well, 
and if it is liked, ^ the best part of the 



WHITE. (8) Put on in four 

quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, six pounds 
weight, a quarter of a pound of lean ham or 
bacon, two slices of the crumb of bread, one 
ounce of blanched sweet almonds, pot iq 
whole ; six middling-sized onions, two heads 
of celery, some wm>le white peppor, three 
blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a 
^rig of thyme; stew all these gently for 
eight hours, strain it, and when cokl take 
on all the fot; boil it, and just before serv- 
ing, take it off the fire, and stir in veiy 
gradually a pint of thick cream. 



WHITE, (4) Boil in four 

2uarts of water four pounds of veal, and a 
>wl, with some whole white pepper, a little 
mace, and three middling-sizea onions whole, 
and a bunch of parsk^; let it boil three 
hours, strain it. and put it on a^iu to get 
quite hot, and just before serving, stir in 
gradually half a pint of cream with the yoUu 
of three e^ well beaten. Do not let it boil, 
as that makes the eggs curdle. 

WHITE. (5) Stew in three quarts 

of boiliiig water, ti}l quite tender, a knuckle 
of veal, with a quarter of a pound of whole 
rice, three whole onions, a bunch of parsley, 
a little sweet marjoram, and two or three 
blades of mace, and some salt ; a little before 
the soup is strained, add {yiro anchovies; 
strain through a hair sieve and then through 
a silk one, or tamnw, put it a^in upon the 
fire, and stir in halt a pint of rich cream, or 
a pint of milk with the yolks of two eggs 
beat up in it; let it be hot but not boiling. 
If it IS required to be richer, boil a fowl m 
the stock, with two ounces of pounded Manch- 
ed sweet abnoods. 



WHITE. (6) Put on in five 

quaits of water, four pounds of a shank of 
veal, break the bone well, let it simmer till 
it be reduced nearly half; boil a tea-cupfid 
of whole rice till verv tender, pulp it through 
a cullender, strain the liquor, and add the 
rice, season with salt and white pepper, let 



SPA 



214 SPI 



it Binuner for nearly an hour, and add, a 
little before eerving, six yolks of eggs beaten 
extremely well. 

SOUR KROUT. Tbe beet cabbage for 
this purpose is tbe dram, or white Stras- 
borgh, aind it should not be used till it has 
endured some severe finost; the stocks are 
then cut into halves, and And down as fine 
as possible with a knife, or more properly 
with a plane made in the fonn of a cucumbca* 
slice. Bum a little juniper in a cask or tvb 
which is perfectly sound and clean, and put 
a little leaven into the seam round the bot- 
tom, — flour and vinegar may be substituted 
iur the leaven; then put in three or four 
handfols of cabbage, a good sprinkling of 
salt, suid a teaHBpoonful of caraway seed, and 
press this hard with a wooden mallet; next 
add another layer of cabbage, with salt and 
caraway seed, as at first; and so on in the 
same manner until the cask be fiill, pressing 
down each layer firmly as you advance. A 
good deal of water will come to the top, of 
which a part may be taken off. The cask 
being full, put on the head so as to press 
upon the cabbage, and place it in a warm 
cellar to ferment; wlien it has wwked well 
fiMT three we^, take off the scum which 
will have gathered on tbe top, and lay a 
clean cloth on the krout; replace the h«id, 
and put two or three heavy stones upon it. 
The juice should always stand upon the t(^. 
Thus in a good cellar it will keep for years. 
When to 1^ dressed, it is boiled for five or 
six hours in water, <»" stewed with a little 
gravy, and may be also substituted for a 
crust over a beef-steak pie, when cheese is 
grated over it. 

SOUR KROUT WITH PIKE. When 
the krout is boiled, clean a large pike, 
scrape and cut it into neat pieces, dip them 
into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into 
i)read crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown ; 
rub some butter upon a dish, and put into 
it a layer of krout, and some grated cheese, 
then a layer of pike, and a little sour cream ; 
then krout, and so on till the dish be full. 
On the top put some bits of butter, and 
some good U-oth or gravy ; strew crumbs 
of bread thickly over it, and bake it half 
an hour. 

SPANISH PUFFS. Put into a sauce- 
pan, half a pint of water and a quarter of 
a pound of butter; stir it till it boils, and 
mix in four table-cqxxmfuls of fiour; stir it 
well together, and add six yolks and four 
whites of eggs, two at a time; let it cool, 
and, with a dessert-spoon, drop it into boil- 
ing clarified dripping or lard. 

To make ginger puffs, a tea-spoonful of 
pounded ginger may be added. 



SPARE RIB ROASTED. Sem Pork, 

SPICE FOR WHITE SAUCE. Pound 
two ounces of peppor, a quarter of an ounce 
of mace, grate one nutmeg, and tbe ped of 
one lemon; mix all together in a bottle. 

SPICE FOR GENERAL USE. One 
ounce and a half of pepper, cirniaoKMi, nut- 
meg, and ginger, half an ounce each, and 
eight ckyves; pound and mix all tt^etfaer io 
a bottle. A little of each kind of epioe 
should be well dried, pounded, and kept 
separately in small bottles, which sboiiki be 
labelled. 

SPINACH, TO DRESS. Pick the 
spinach with great care; strip the leaves 
fixHu the stalks, and wash it in several wa- 
ters, till perfectly clean; boil the spinach in 
salt and water; drain it well; pound it in 
a mortar, and put it into a stewpan with a 
little butter and broth, and let it stew oTcr 
a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour, till 
it be very dry; then add a quarter of a 
pound of fiiesh butter, with salt and grated 
nutmeg; work the spinach well, till it is 
thick, but take care the butter does not 
turn to oil. Garnish with fried toasts <^ 
bread, which may be cut like cock's combs, 
or in any other form. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (1) Pick it very 

carefully, and wash it thoroii^y two or 
three times in plenty of cold water, then pat 
it on in boiling water with a little salt; let 
it boil nearly twenty minutes, put it into a 
cullender, hold it und^ the water cock, and 
let the water i-un on it for a minute; put it 
into a saucepan, beat it perfectly smooth 
with a beater or with a wooden spoon, add 
a bit of butter, and three table-spoonfuls of 
cream; mix it well t<^ether, and moke it 
hot before serving. When dished, it is 
scored in squares with the back of a knife. 

SPINACH, TO BOIL. (2) Aaer 
being nicely picked and well washed, put it 
into a saucepan, with no more water than 
adheres to it; add a little salt; cover the 
pan closely, and boil it till tender,- fi^ecpient- 
ly shaking it; beat it quite ranooth, adding 
butter and cream, and make it quite hot. 
Spinach may be served with poached eggs, 
or fried sausages laid on it. 

When the spinach is bitter, it is prefera- 
ble to boil it in wat^. 

SPINACH TOASTS. Boil some spi- 
nach for a quarter of an hour ; then squeeie 
out all the water, chop it small, and put it 
into a mortar, with tlu^ee or four spoonfiils 
of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard- 
boiled, and three raw eggs, two biacuin 



SP R 



215 



STO 



•OttKed m cream, sugar, and a pinch <^8alt; 
pound all tliese U^ether to a paste, put it 
into a dish, and mix with it a few dry cur- 
rants, and three or four epoonfuls of melted 
butter. Cut some slices of bread half an 
inch thick, four inches long, and two broad; 
toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, 
&c. over them, to the diickness of half an 
inch, wash each over with white of egg; 
place the toasts on a baking-tin (well butter- 
ed) and bake them for lialf an hour. When 
done, grate nutm^, and squeeze orange-juice 
over them, and weme. 

SPRATS, TO BAKE. Clean diem; 
take off the beads; put them into a deep 
dish, and cover them with vinnrar and wa- 
ter, equal quantities of each. To a quart of 
liquid, put half an ounce of whole black pep- 
per, a little allspice, two or three bay-leaves, 
some salt, and an onion. Tie paper over 
the dish, and bake them in a cool oven, or 
do them over a slow fire in a water bath. 
Henings may be done in this way. Both 
Dvill keep good some weeks. 

SPRATS, STEWED. Wash and dry 
your sprats, and lay them as level as you 
can in a stewpan, and between every layer 
of sprats put three peppercorns, and as many 
allspice, with a few grains of salt ; barely 
cover them with vinegar, and stew them one 
hour over a slow fire; they must not boil: 
a bay-leaf is sometimes added. Herrings or 
noackerei may be stewed the same way. 

SPRATS, BROILED. If you have not 
a s{Mrat gridiron, get a piece of pointed iron 
wire as thick as packtliread, and as long as 
vour gridiron is broad; run this through the 
heads of your sprats, sprinkle a little flour 
and salt over them, put your gridiron over a 
clear j quick fire, turn diem in about a couple 
of minutes ; when the other side is brown, 
draw out the wii^e, and send up the fish with 
melted butter in a cup. 

Obs. — Tiiat sprats are young herrings, is 
evident by their anatomy, in which there is 
no perceptible di/ference. They appear very 
soon after tlie iierrings are gone, and seem 
to be the spawn just vivified. 

SPRING FRUIT— ^ Mock Qooae^ 
berry Sauce for Mackerel, 4rc* Make a 
marmalade of three dozen sticks of rhubarb, 
sweetened with moist sugar; pass it through 
a hair sieve, and serve up in a 8auce4)oat. 

SPRING FRUIT TART. Prepare 
rhubarb as above: cut it into small pieces 
into a taii-diedi; sweeten with loaf-sugar 
pounded ; cover it with a good short crust 
paste; sift a Utile sugar over the top, and 



bake half an hour b a rather hot om; mnm 
lip cold. 

SPRING CREAM, or 3fock Goow 
berry Fool, Prepare a marmalade as di- 
rected for the pudding: to which add a pint 
of good thick o^am ; serve up in glasses, or 
in a deep dish. If wanted in a shape, dis- 
solve two ounces (^isinglass in a little water; 
strain it through a tamis, and when nearly 
cold put it to the cream ; pour it into a jelly 
mould, and when set, turn out into a disli, 
and serve up plain. 

SPRING FRUIT SHERBET. Boil 
six or eight sticks of rhubaib (quite clean) 
ten minutes in a quait of water; strain the 
liquor through a tamis into a jus, witli the 
peel of a lemon cut very thin, and two table- 
spoonfuls of clarified sugar; let it stand five 
or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 

SPRUCOQ BEER. See Beer, 

SPROUTS AND YOUNG GREENS. 
The receipt fer cabbages will answer as well 
for sprouts, only they will be boiled enough 
in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

STEAKS OR CHOPS. See Chops. 

STOCK, FOR BROWN OR WHITE 
SOUPS. Take a pound of scate, five floun- 
ders, and two pounds, of eels ; cut them in 
pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as 
much water as will cover them, a little mace, 
an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, 
two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and 
salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover 
close ; stitiin it off for use ; if it is for brown 
soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and then 
put it to stew. 

STOCK, FOR GRAVY SOUP OR 
GRAVY. Cut a knuckle of veal into sli- 
ces, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a 
pound of the lean of gammon of bacon ; pi>t 
these into a stewpan, widi tliree scraped 
carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- 
nips, two heads of celery, and two quarts 
of water. Let the meat stew till quite ten- 
der, but it must not be brown. When thus 
prepared it will serve eidier for soup, or 
brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, 
it must be first coloi^ in the nsuzil manner. 

STOMACHIC TINCTURE. Peruvian 
bark, bruised, one ounce and a lialf, orange- 
peel, do. one ounce, brandy, or proof spirit, 
one pint. Let these ingredients steep for 
ten days, shalcing the bottle every day; let 
it remain quiet two days, and tlicn decant 
the clear liquor* Dose — a tea-spoonful in 



STR 



dl6 



STU 



• wiirt gtipp of water, twice a day, when 
you feel languid, t. e, when the Blomach is 
amply, about an hour before dinner, and in 
Uia evenii^. This agreeaUe aromatic tonic 
is an eflective help to concoction ; and we 
are under personal oUigationa to it, for fre- 
quently restoriof our stomadi to good tem- 
per, and procuring us good appetite and ^ood 
digestion. In low nervous affections arising 
from a lan^d circulation, and when the 
stomach is m a state' of d^ility from age, 
intemperance, or other causes, this is a most 
acceptable restcnrative. 

N. B. — ^Tea made with dried and bruised 
orange-peel, in the same way as common 
tea, and drank with milk and sugar, has 
been taken by nervous and dyspeptic per- 
sons witli great benefit. Sucking a bit of 
dried orange-peel about an hour before din- 
ner, when the stomadi is empty, is very 
grateful and strengthening to it. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. Pot six 
ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of crenm, 
pulp it through a sieve; add to it the juice 
of a lemon, whisk it ^st at the edge of a 
dish, iacv the froth on a sieve, add a little 
more juice of lemon, and when no more froth 
will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into 
glasses; and place the froth upon it, well 
drained. 

STRAWBERRIES AND RASPBER- 
RIES. From either of these fruits agree- 
able wine may be obtained, by following tl)e 
rules given for making cuirant wine ; but it 
will be found a cheaper and a better meth- 
od, to add a little sirup or juice of tlie fruit 
to any flavorless currant wine; when the 
fermentation begins to decline, currant wine 
may also be flavored with odoriferous flow- 
ers, such as cowslip, elder, or mignionetle. 
Tlie quality of roughness is communicated 
by catechu and keno-, chips of oak and of 
beech, and also the sloe; a small quantity 
of these, or of tlie flowers, is put into the 
cask wlien the first fermentation is over, and 
as soon as the wine has acquired the desired 
flavor, it is racked and fined, l^he flavor- 
ing articles, such as orris-root, cloves, gin- 
ger, sweet and bitter almonds, are put into 
a muslin hag, and hung in the cask for a 
few days, during the stase of insensible fer- 
mentation, that IS, aflier the first fermentation 
has ceased; care being taken to taste the 
liquor frequently, so that the flavoring mat- 
ter may be withdrawn as soon as it had pro- 
duced the desired efl^t. 

STRAWBERRIES, POUNDED, for 
Strawberry Cream. Take equal 
weight of sugar and of strawbemes ; pound 
and sift the sugar, add it to the strawben'ies, 
and pound them in a marble mortar till per- 



fectly iiBooCh. Pot it ittio jara, and tk 
them owtr closely with paper. It will keep 
good for several months. 

STRAWBERRY 50UFFLE. Take 
a badcet of very fine strawberries, pick, and 
crudi them, and then rub them through a 
sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen ^rgs 
to a firm fitith, to which add a pound anda 
half of powder sugar, stir them together as 
lightly as possible ; then mix them with the 
strawbemes. Poor the whole into a er€u»- 
tadty and bake it for an hour in a moderate 
oven ; when done, glaze it, and serve. 

STRAWBERRY TART. Pick, and 

put into a basin two quarts of the best scar- 
let strawberries, then add to them half a 
pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and half 
a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or 
three lemons ; mix these well together, with- 
out breaking tlie strawberries, and piit tfiem 
into a pNiflf paste, previously baked; be care- 
ful to keep diem very cool. 

STRING BEANS. See French Beans. 

STUFFING WITHOUT MEAT. Sea- 
son a quarter of a pound of finely-minced 
beef suet, and an equal quantity of grated 
bread, with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, lem- 
on thyme, and parsley, salt, and pepper; 
mix it well together, and bind it with a 
well-beaten yolk of an e^, when it may be 
used for stuffing veal and fowl. 

STUFFING FOR TURKEY OR 
FOWL. Wadi a quart of ojst^^ in their 
own liquor, strain it, and pot into it the 
oysters, with a little mace, whole pepper, 
and lemon-peel ; when parboiled, chop smalt 
a dozen and a half, add an eqnal weight of 
grated bread, twice the quantity of finely- 
minced beef suet, the yolks of tliree hard- 
boiled eggs, one anchow,. a little salt, pep- 
per, nutme^^, lemon-peel, and some minced 
parsley; bind it with the beaten yolks of 
two eggs. For the sauce, boil with the 
liquor of the oysters, a pint of white stock, 
half a pint oi white wine, one anchovy, 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg; strain it, and 
add a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in 
flour, beat it up with the remainder of the 
oysters. 

STUFFING FOR A HARE. Parboil 
the liver, and mince it ; add an equal quan- 
tity of grated bread, double the quantity of 
fat bacon chopped, a bit of butter the size 
of a walnut. Season with pepper, salt, nut- 
meg, chopped lemon thyme, and parsley; 
bind with an egg beaten. 

STUFFING FOR VEAL, ROAST 



8TU 



217 



SUQ 



ToBKXT» Fowl, &c. Mince a ipirter 
of a poand of beef suet (beef marrow is bet- 
ter), the Bame weight of bread crumbu, two 
drachms of parsley leaves, a drachm and a 
half of sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, and 
the same of graced lemon-peel and onion 
chopped as fine as possible, a little pepper 
and salt; pound thoroughly together with the 
yolk and white of two eggs, and secure it 
in the veal with a skewer, or sew it in with 
a bit of thread. Make some of it into baUs 
or sausages; flour them, and boit, or £7 
them, and send them up as a garnish, or in 
a side dish, with roast poultry, veal, or cut- 
lets, fcc. 

N. B. — ^Tbis is about the quantity fiw a 
turkey pouk: a very large turkey will take 
nearlv twice as much. To the above may 
be aoded an ounce of dressed ham ; or use 
ecpial parts of the above stuffing and pork 
sausage meat pounded well together. 

Obs. — Good stuffing has always been con- 
sidered a diief thing in cookery: it lias given 
immortality to 

<' Poor Roffer Fowler, who *d a generous mind. 
Nor would submit to have his hand confin'd, 
But aimed at all, — ^yet never could excel 
In any thing but stuffing of his veal." 

STUFFING FOR HARE. Two oun- 
ces of beef suet chopped fine; three ounces 
of fine bread crumbs; parsley, a drachm; 
esclialot, lialf a drachra ; a drachm of mar- 
joram, lemon tlivme, or winter savory; a 
dradim of grated lemon-peel, and the same 
of pepper and suit: mix tliese with the white 
and yolk of an egg; do not make it thin — 
it must be of cohesive consistence : if your 
stuffing is not stiflf enough, it will he good 
for nothing: put it in the hare, and sew it 
up. If the liver is quite sound, you may 
parboil it, and mince it very fine, and add 
It to tlie above. 

STURGEON, BAKED, Clean, and 
take the skin from a soiall sturgeon ; split it 
along the belly, without tueparating it. ' Lav 
it in a large bakino; dish, season it with 
salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs; moisten 
with oil, lemon-juice, and a bottle of white 
wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequent- 
ly; make it a nice color, and serve it with 
Its own gravy. 

STURGEON, FRESH, TO BROIL. 
Out it into cutlets; rub them with the yolk 
(^ an egg beat up; strew them over with 
some parsley, minced very fine, and mixed 
with grated bread crun^is, pepper, and sah ; 
put them into pieces of white fiaper buttered, 
and broil them gently. Sauces j^-oyster, 
melted butter, and anchovy. 

STURGEON, FRESH. The best mode 
19 



of dressing diii, is to have it cut in thia 
slices like veal cutlets, and broiled, and rob- 
bed over with a bit of butter and a little 
pepper, and served very hot, and eaten with 
a squeeie of lemon-juice. Great care, how- 
ever, must be taken to cut ofif the skin be- 
fore it is broiled, as the oil in the skin, if 
burned, imparts a disgusting flavor to the 
fish. The flesh is very fine, and comes 
nearer to veal, ^lerhaps, than even turtle. 
Stuiigeon is frequently plentiful and reason- 
able in the London shops. We prefer this 
mode of dressing it to the more savory one 
of stewing it in rich gravy, like carp, &c. 
which overpowers the peculiar flavor of the 
fish. 

STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a 
large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small 
one, clean and skin it properly; lard it with 
eel and anchovies, and marinade it in a 
white wine marinade. Fasten it to the 
spit, and roast it, bastins frequentlv with 
the marinade sti^ained. Let the fish be a 
nice color, and serve with a |)epper sauce. 

SUET TO KEEP FOR A TWELVE- 
MONTH. Choose the firmest part, and 
pick it free from skin and veins. Put it 
into a saucepan, and set it at some disUineo 
from the fire, in order that tlie suet may 
melt without frjiug, or it will taste disagree- 
able. When it is melted, pour it into a pan 
of cold water. When it Ims caked quite 
hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, 
and tlien in a linen bag, and keep it in a 
dry, but not in a hot place. When you wish 
to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a 
nice cinist, either with or witliout butter. 

SUET MILK. Cut into very small 
shavings one ounce of fresh beef suet; dis- 
solve it slowly over the fire in one pint of 
milk, togetlier witli a bit of kmon-peel and 
cinnamon ; sweeten witlt pounded loaf sugar. 

SUET DUMPLINGS. This batter 
should l)e made the same as for suet pud- 
ding, (second receipt), but much thicker, let 
your clotli be wetted, sliake il all over with 
flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, 
as much as it will hold, two or three spoon- 
fuls of batter. Or you may make the batto: 
as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well butter- 
ed; tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. To every 
three pounds of loaf sugar, allow the beaten 
white of one egg, and a pint and a half of 
water ; break the sugar small, put it into a 
nicely-cleaned brass pan, and pour the water 
over it ; let it stand sometime before ft^ be 
put upon the fire ; then add the beaten whites 
of the eggs ; stir it tiU the sugar be entirely 



SWfi 



218 



SWE 



i iM o hc d, and when it boib up, pour in a 
qoarter <^ a pint of ookl water ; let it boil 
tip a second time; take it off the fire and let 
it settle for fifteen minutes; carefully take 
off all the scum ; put it on the fire, ami boil 
it till sufficiently thick, or if rec^uired, till 
candy high; in order to ascertain which, 
drop a little from a spoon Into a small jar 
of coki water, and if it become quite hard, 
it is then suflicientiy done ; or dip the thevil 
into the sugar, plunge it into cold water, 
draw off the sugar which adheres to the 
stick, and if it be liard and snaps, the firuil 
to be (Mreserved must be instantly put in and 
boiled. 



SUGAR ORNAMENTS. 

ameL 



See Car- 



SUGAR RUFFS. A pound of pounded 
and sifted loaf sugar beaten well with the 
whites of three eggs, and flavored with oil 
of cinnamon, lemons, or orange-flower wa- 
ter, and baked in the same way as the 
meringues, served in a napkin, or used to 
gamisli dishes of preserves. 

SUGAR, TO BOIL. To every pound 
of sugar allow half a pint of water ; stir it 
over the fire till the sugar be entirely dissolv- 
ed ; when it first ImiTs up, pour in a little 
cold water, and wlien it boils a second time, 
take it off the fire ; let it settle ten minutes, 
carefully scum it, and boil it lor half an houf 
or a little longer, and then put in the fruit. 

SWEETBREADS, Italian Atte- 
LBTS. Blanch some nice sweetbreads, and 
stew them in a well-seasoned gravy, made 
of meat and- vegetables ; when culd, cut 
them into pieces of nearly un inch square, 
put them into a sauce d'attclets, and let 
them cool. With silver skewers, skewer 
the sweetbreads, and a bit of ready-dressed 
calPs udder alternately ; make them all as 
much as possible of an equal size,- and of a 
square form. Moisten them with the sauce, 
and cover them with grated bread, then 
dip them into four well beaten eggs, strew 
over them some more grated bread, and 
le\e\ it with a knife ; fi-y tliem of a fine 
brown, and serve with an Italian sauce, 
white or brown. 

If tlie attelets are ready before they are 
required to be fried, strew grated bread 
over the cover of a stewpan, and lay them 
upon it. 

SWEETBREAD, TO BOIL. Parboil 
it, rob it with butter, and broil it over a 
slow fire, turn it fi^uently, and baste it 
now and then, by putting it upon a plate 
kept warm by die fire wiUi butter in it. 



SWEETBREADS a la DAurHivie. 

If for a round dish, take four large and 6sm 
sweetbreads. If for a long dish, three will 
suffice. Fare off the hi and sinews, and 
blanch them in warm water, parboil them, 
and when cold, lard them. Rub a stew- 
pan with fresh batter, and pot into it a few 
sliced carrots and onions, then a layer of 
slices of fat bacon, place the sweedoreads 
upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over 
them, and stew them with a great deal of 
fire on the top, and a very slow one b»> 
neath ; when tliey are nicely browned, cover 
them with a piece of battered paper, oA 
round, and lessen the fire upon the ti^ 
They will require to stew for three-qnarters 
of an hour, tlien drain and put them into a 
pan with some glase, and the bacon under- 
neadi. Leave them in tbe ghiae till dinner 
time. 

SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED. 

Parboil them, and let than get cold; then 
cut them in pieces, abou^ three-quarters of an 
inch thick; dip them in the yolk of an egg, 
then in fine bread crumbs (some add spice, 
lemon-peel, and sweet hohs); pot some 
clean dripping into a fi-ying-pan: when it 
boils, put in the sweetbreads, and (ry them 
a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsl^ 
and for sauce, mushroom ketchup and melted 
butter, or anchovy sauce, or bacon or ham. 

SWEETBREADS, SMALL CASES 
OF Scollops of. Blanch and parboil 
some sweetbreads, cut them into small scol- 
io|i6. Then chop separately, and finely, half 
a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley, and 
four or five sliallots, add a little fiit bacon 
rasped, and a piece of fi-esh butter; season 
tlie scollops with pepper, salt, and a little 
mace, stew it all together over a slow fire; 
when done, drain off the fiit, place the scol- 
lops in small pajier cases, which have been 
fried in olive oil, cover them with plenty of 
finely-chopped herbs, and strew over tbem 
fried bread crumbs; lay the paper cases for 
a moment into the oven, and before serving, 
pour into each a little ridi gravy, and a litde 
lemon-juice. 

SWEET HERBS. See Serbs. 

SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut 
small any sort of candied fruit, and heat it 
with a bit of fresh butter, some good mUk, 
and a little grated lemon-peel ; when quite 
hot, stir in enough of flour to make it into a 
stiff paste, take )t off the fire, and work m 
eight, or ten eggs, two at a time; when 
cold, form tiie fritters, and fiy, and serve 
tiiem with pounded loaf sugar strewed over 
I tJiem. 



STL 



219 



TAR 



SYLLABUBS. TAb the juke of a 
large lemon, the peel (pared very thin), a 
glass of braiidy, two of white wine, and a 
quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; put 
these ingredients into a pan, and leave tfa«n ; 
the next day, add a pint of thick cream, sod 
the whites <^ two eggs; whip the whole 
wdl, and pour the ^llabub into glasses. 
They are the better for keeping a day or 
two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite 
80 good as the above, raisin or mountain 
wine will do as well as brandy. 

SYLLABUB, Somebsetshirs. Put 
a pint of Port, and a pint of Sherry, or 
any other white wme, mto a large bowl, 
sweeten it according to taste ; milk the bowl 
fiill; in about twenty minutes' time, cover 
it tolerably high with clouted cream; grate 
iiutmeg over it; add pounded cinnamon, and 
nonpareils. 

SYLLABUB, Stafpordshire. Put 
a pint of cider, a glass of brandy, sugar, and 
Butmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or 
pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some 
neight into it. 

SYLLABUB. (1) One pound of ratafia 
cakes pounded and steeped in two bottles 
of Port wine, one of claret, and one of 
brandy, the grated peel and juice of two 
lemons, one urge nutmeg grated, and two 
ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and 
pounded with a little rose-wator, and pound- 
ed sugar sufficient to make it sweet — ^Put 
all these ineredients, well mixed, into a 
large China Bowl, or bowls of an equal size, 
and let the milk of a good cow be milked 
upon them; add a little rich cream and sift- 
ed loaf sugar, and cover it to keq> it warm. 
It may be served out into glasses with a silver 
ladle. 

SYLLABUB. (2) A large gbss of Madei- 
ra, one of rich sweet wine, and half a one <^ 
ratafia, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
the grated peel of a large lemon, the juice 
of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir 
it all together till the sugar be dissolved, and 
add a quart of rich cream; whisk it well; 
lay some macaroons into the bottom of a 
dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon 
it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is 
better the third and fourth than when first 
made. 

SYLLABUB, SOLID. A quarter of a 
pint of mountain, the same of white wine, 
the grated peel of two, and juice of one 
lemon ; sweeten, and add it to a quart of 
rich cream; whisK it for an hour, and put it 
into glasses. It will keep a week in cold 
weather* 



SYLLABUB, COMMON. Half a pint 
of currant, the same of Port or white wine, 
half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a 
lemon ; sweeten well with pounded loaf or 
good bHTown sugar, and mix it together in a 
China bowl, and when the sugar dissolves, 
milk upon it three or four pints of milk. 
Serve it when cold. 

SYLLABUB, MTHIPT. (1) Mix to- 
gether half a glass of brandy, a tittle lemon- 
juioe, and grated peel, with sugar enough to 
sweeten i& whole; stir it into a pint of 
thick cream, and add the well-bealen whites 
of six eggs ; whisk it for an hour, and put 
the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to drain ; 
put a little Port and sweet wine into glasses, 
and fill them up with the froth. 

SYLLABUB, WHIPT. (2) Mix with 
a pint of cream, half a pint of sweet wine, 
a glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon, grat- 
ed nutmeg, six ounces of sifted loaf sugar: 
nearly fill the custard-glasses with the mix- 
ture, and lay on with a spoon some of the 
whip. 



T. 



TAMIS, a coarse kind of ck>th for strain- 
ing soups and gravies. 

TARTE, ROYAL BERLIN. Take 
half a pound of sweet almonds, and having 
blanched, pound tliem with six eggs, in a 
marble mortar to a very fine paste, add to it 
a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fi-esh 
butter, and the grated rind of two lemons, 
beat it well as each ingredient is put in ; 
lay about sixteen or eighteen ounces of sift- 
ed flour on the slab, place the almond paste 
on it, and knead them well t^etber. Di- 
vide this into several pieces, which roll to 
the eighth of an inch in thickness ; firom 
these cut from twelve to sixteen circular 
layers, the lai^est about seven inches in 
diameter, the rest, each somewhat smaller 
than the other ; when all are cut, place them 
on white paper on tins, and bake them in a 
moderate oven to a clear brown, then take 
them out, and let them cool. As soon as 
cold, place the largest piece on a China 
dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay fiat, and 
spread over it equally some preserved fruit; 
cover this with the second sized ^layer, on 
which also spread preserved fiiiit; then a 
third layer, and so on until all the paste is 
used, taking care to put each layer in its 
proper order, so that the whole may form a 
cone, and tliat between every one must be 
a different kind of preserve; when done, 
glaze, and ornament it as follows: cut aoam 



TARTS 



320 



TARTS 



1 



endied lemoD, and onm^e-ped iiMo the 
§brm of leaves, which amnge ia gariandi 
roond the tart, puttiog here and there a 
■nail m e aerre d fruit; when done, repbee h 
In the oven for two or three minutea to dry, 
and then serre* 



TARTLETS. (1) Bottar 

tartlet pane; line than with a nice thin 
puff paste, nurk it neatly round the edgee, 
bake them; when they are odd, fll then 
with cuilard, preaerve, or any sweetmeat 
you think proper, and if you choose, poor 
custard over* 

TARTLETS. (2) Rull out the raate 
dbout a quarter of an inch thick, and lav 
upon it the top part of the patty-pan; cut it 
round with the paste cutter. Kub the patty- 
pane with a little butter, and line them with 
the paste, and place in the middle a little bit of 
bread, which take out when they are baked. 
They may be filled with any preserved fruit, 
and a star or ksaf of paste placed on the top. 
To make ornaments of paste, roll it quite 
thin, and as even as possible; cut it widi 
tin stars, leaves, or any other form, and 
bake them a light brown ook>r, upon flat 
tins dusted with flour. 

TART, APPLE, CREAMED. Use 
green codlings, in preference to any other 
apple, and proceed as in the last receipt. 
When the pie is done, cut out the whole of 
die centre, leaving the edges; when cold, 
pour on the apple wosae rich boiled custard, 
and phoe round it some small leaves of puff" 
paste of a light color. 

TART, CHERRY. The cherries may 
be stoned, and a few red currants added; 
sweeten with loaf or brown sugar, and pot 
into the bottmn of the dish a small tea-cup; 
cover it with paste. 

TART, CRANBERRY. Take cran- 
berries, pick and wash them in several wa- 
ters, put them into a dish, with the juice of 
half a lemon, a quarter of a pound of moist 
or pounded loaf sugar, to a quart of cran- 
berries. Cover it with puff" or tart paste 
and bake it tliree-quarters of an hour; if 
tart paste is used, draw it from the oven 
five minutes before it is done, and ice it, re- 
turn it to the oven, and send it to taUe 
cold. 

TART, CURRANT. To a quart of 
red currants add one pint of red raspber- 
ries, strawberries, or cherries ; sweeten them 
wdl with brown sugar; before putting in 
the fruit, line the side of the dish with tart 
paste, place in it a small tea-cup, |iut in the 
fruit, and cover it with paste. 



Fov (NBOBi oi farewn wonf wn 
If allowed ta a tfrntt of finit. 



TART OF PRESERVED FRUIT. 
Cover a flat dUi, or knarte pan, with tait 
pante, abool an eighth of an inch thick; rol 
oat puffpaale, half an inch thick, and cot it 
oat in siripa an uicfa wide; wet the tait 
paste, and lay it neatly rand the pan fay 
way of a lim ; fill the oanlre with jam or 
mannalade of any kind, omaoMiit it with 
small leaves of poff pasted bake it balf aa 
hour, and send it to table cold. 

Tie above may be fiBed before the puff 
paste is hid on, neathr stnOif with paate^ 
and the rim put over aner. 

Toe most ffeneral way of wjiding' twatui 
to table, ia with a croqaante of paste, or a 
caramel of aDoa eonr pot oiver after it ii 
baked. 

TARTS, PRESERVED FRUrr. Rnb 
over with a Httle btOber an oval dish, or tin 
riiape, tine it with pane, and fll it withanv 
sort of pwjwii 'v ed frnit. Roll oat a hit ot 
paste thin, and, with a paMa cottar* cat it 
into narrow strips; brwh with waior tha 
rim of the shape, and lay the bars of paste 
aerosi and aooas, and then pM roond a 
border of paste, and onuk it wkh the pMte 

cutter. 

• 

TARTS, RIPE FRUIT. Gooaeberrieik 
da m so n s, morello cherries, catrants mixed 
with raspberrieB, plums, green ga^ea, wfaita 
phans, &c. shouki be ooite fresh picked, and 
virashed: lay them in the dish wiitn the eeotri 
highest, and about a quarter of a poood of 
moist or loaf sqgar pounded to a qoart of 
firuit (but if ouite ripe they will not reqoira 
so much); aad a little water; rah the edges 
of the dvh with yolk of e^; cover it with 
tart paste, about half an indi thick; praaa 
your thundb round the rim, and done it well; 
pare it round with a knife; make a hole in 
the sides below the rim ; bake it in a noda- 
rate-heated oven; and ten minoles before it 
is done, take it out and ice it, and renm it 
tt> the oven to dry. 

TART, RHUBARB. Strip oifdtepeel^ 
and if the rhubarb is lar^, cut it into tira 
or three strips, and th« into bite about an 
inch long; sweeten wdl with broim tugur^ 
and cover the dish with paste. 

TART PASTE, FOR FAMILY PIES. 
Rob in widi the hand half a pound <tf batter 
into one txNind and a quarter of flour, mis it 
with hair a pint of water, and knead it vreiL 

TART PASTE, Swcxt, or Short 
▲iiD Crisped. To one pound and a quar* 
ter of fine flour add (en ounces (Afresh battery 



i 



TEW 



231 



TTM 



the yoQcB of two eggs beaten, and three oan- 
ces of sifted loaf sugar ; mix up together with 
half a pint of new milk, and knead it well. 
N. B.— >This crust is frequently iced. 

TEA CREAM. Infine an ounce of the 
best green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, 
siomier it five minutes, then strain it through 
a tammy, pressing the leaves well. Boil a 
pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of foot 
eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity 
of clarified si^r ; pour this whilst hot to the 
milk, stir tliem U^edier well; put in as much 
clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the 
cream into the mould, or glasses; place I hem 
on ice ; when perfectly cold, turn it out of 
the mould, or serve in the glasses. 

TEAL, ROASTED. Shred a little 
lemoD-peel, and mix it with a bit of butter, 
salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; stuff your 
birds with this, cover them first with slices 
of lemon, then bacon, and histly, buttered 
paper sprinkled witli salt ; tic them up se- 
curely, fasten them to tlie spit, and ronst 
them. When done, let tlie' butter nin out, 
remove tlie wrappers, and disli tliem. Serve 
them with a sauce made as follows: put into 
a saucepan tliree ladlefuls of espagnole, a 
i(poonful of consomme, a bit of glaze, the 
rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a little pep- 
per ; give them a boil up together, and strain 
it over the teal. 

TENCH. They are a fine-flavored fresh 
water fi^ ; when good, the eyes are bright, 
tlie body sti ff, and the outside free from slime ; 
tench sliould be dressed as soon as caught. 

TENCH, FRIED. Take a couple of 
large tench, scale and cleanse tliem as for 
broiling. Cut off the fins, split them down 
the biick, take out tlie l)ones ; sprinkle them 
witli flour and salt; squeeze a little lemon- 
juice over, and fry them in butter, and serve 
them di'y. 

TENCH, ROASTED. Take off scales, 
heads, and finsj of the teuch, cleanse and^ry 
them well, then put into each a little butter, 
mixed wiui sweet herbs ; lay them for about 
five minutes in melted butter, with salt, pep- 
per» and sweet herbs ; wrap each fish in pa- 
per, fiusten diem to a spit, and roast them. 

TEWAHDIDDLE. A pint of table 
beer (or ale, if you intend it for a supplement 
to your ** night cap"), a table-spoonful of 
brandy, and a tea-spoonfui of brown sug?ir, 
or clarified sirup ; a little grated nutmeg or 
ginger may be added, and a roll of \&ry diin- 
cut lemon-peel. 

Obe. — ^Befbre our readers make any re- 
marks on this composition, we beg of them 
• 19* 



to taste it: if the materials are good, and 
their palate vibrates in unison with our own, 
they will find it one of the pleasantest bever- 
ages they ever put to their hps ; and, as Lord 
Ruthven says, " this is a right gossip's cup 
that far exceeds all the ale that ever Mother 
Bunch made in her life-time." 

THICKENING. Clarified butter is best 
for this purpose ; but if you liave none ready, 
put some fresh butter into a stewpan over'a 
slow, clear fire; when it is melted, add fine 
flour sufficient to make it the thickness of 
paste; stir it well together witli a wooden 
spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes, till it is 
quite smooth, and the color of a guinea: this 
must be done very gradually and patiently; 
if you put it over too fierce a fire to huri-y it, 
it will become bitter and empyrcumatic : pour 
it into an enrdien pan, and keep it for use. 
It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and 
longer in winter. 

A large spoonful will generally be enough 
to thicken a quatt of gravy. 

Obs. — This, in the French kitchen, it 
called roux. Be particularly attentive in 
makino^ it; if it gets any burnt smell or 
tnste, It will spoil every thing it is put into. 
When cold, it should tie thick enough to cut 
out widi a knife, like a solid paste. 

It is a very essential article in the kitchen, 
and is the basis of consistency in most made- 
dishes, soups, s:iuces, and ragouts; if the 
gravies, &c. are too thin, add this thicken- 
ing, more or less, according to the consistence 
you would wish them to have. 

Mem. — In making thickening, tlie lesf 
butter, and the more flour you use, the bet> 
ter; tliey must be thoroughly worked to*> 
gctlier, and the broth, or soup, &c. you put 
them to, added by degrees: take especial 
care to incorporate them well together, or 
your sauces, &c. will taste floury, and have 
a disgusting, greasy appearance: therefore, 
after you have Uiickened j'our sauce, add to 
it some broth, or warm water, in the pro- 
(Mrtion of two tiible-spoonfuls to a pint, and 
set it by the side of the fire, to raise any fat, 
&c. diat is not thoroughly incorporated with 
the gravy, which you must carefully remove 
as It comes to the top. This is called 
cleansing, or finishing the sauce. 

Half an ounce of butter, and a table-spoon- 
ful of flour, are about the proportion for a 
pint of sauce to make it as tliicK as cream. 

N. B. — ^The fat skimmings off the top 
of the broth-pot are sometimes substituted 
for butter; some cooks merely thicken their 
soups and sauces with flourr 

TIMBALE. Put a pound of flour on 
tlie slab, make a hole in the middle of it, 
into which pour a little water, three ot four 
spoonfuls of oil, a quarter of a pound of but- 



TOA 



TOM 



Iv, te yoHu of two taph aad a pnch of 
mJC; koM chew ingre«UmtB thoroofrtily ii^ 
the floor, onlil k beooowB a tombly firm 
poflte ; roll it oot to neariy half an ioch in 
thicknem, line one hrce, or several mall 
plain roond moukk, wim this poflte; lei the 
mooldfl be well buttered, and the paste oome 
aboot half an inch above the top of the mould ; 
fill your timbaU with any faree, or ragout, 
you think proper, cover it with a layer of 
paele, preaeing the edses together; bake it, 
and when done, turn the Htnbale on a dish, 
make a hole, pour in some rich sauce or 
gravy, and serve. 

TINCTURE OF ALLSPICE. Of 
allspice bruised, tltree ounces, apothecaries* 
weight; brandy, a quart. Let it steep a 
fortnight, occasionally shaking it up; tlien 
poor ofl* the clear liqiKN* : it is a most grateful 
addition in all caves where allspice is used, 
for making a bishop, or to mulled wine ex- 
tempore, or in gravies, &c. or to flavor and 
preserve potted meats. 

TIPSY CAKE. Pour over a sponge 
cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as 
much white wine as it will absorb, and stick 
it all over with blanehcd sweet almonds, cut 
like straws ; or pour wine in the same man* 
ner over a thick slice of sponge cake, cover 
the to|) of it with preserved strawl)errie8 or 
raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. 

TOAST AND CHEESE. See Cheese, 

TOAST, WITH BUTTER. Spi^d 
bolter over some slices of fried bread ; lay 
on them sweet herbs, tossed up in meltecl 
butter, and serve. 

TOASTS, GENOA. Lard a French 
roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham ; 
out the roll into slices, lay on each a thin 
slice of bacon, dip tliem into batter, and fry 
them ; drain, and serve with ravigoie, 

TOASTS, GRENADA. Cut some fat 
and lean bacon into dice, give them a few 
turns over the fire with (xirsley, scallions, 
shallots, pepper, sail, and the yolks of three 
eggs; stir it frequently, till it forms a kind 
of {arcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, 
cut of an equal thickness, and fry tliem. 

TOASTS, ITALIAN. Cut seme sUces 
of bread, about half an inch in thickness, 
fir^ them in sweet oil, let it be di-y, and 
crisp, lay them on a dish, and spread over 
them any light good faree you may think 
proper; poor over them an approfM'iate 
iBuoe and serve them. 

TOAST AND WATER. Pare the 



eiQit off a thin aliee of Hals braad, 
it brown opon both skleB, doing it eqoadlj 
and slowly, that it mav harden withoot being 
burnt; put it into a Jog, and pour upon it 
boiling fvater; cover the jog with a aauoer, 
and set it in a cool phce. 



TOASTS, SPANISH. BoU oot 
almond paste, nearly an inch thick, cot it 
into pieces, about two inches square, presi 
them down witli a square piece of wood, • 
little smaller than the paste, which will leaitk 
the edffes higiier than the rest ; bake the.n, 
and when cold, pour in any prepnred orenm 
you please, as high as the borders; ice, and 
color them with a Kalanmnder. 

TOMATA SAUCE. Bake six tomataa 
in an oven till quite soft ; with a tea-spooo 
lake out the pulp, add suit, cayenne, and 
vinegar, till of the consistence of thick cream. 

TOMATA SOUP. Wash, scrape, and 
ait small the red part of tliree brge carTolS| 
tliree heads of celery, four lai^ onions, and 
two lar^ turnips, put lliem into a sauoqNuiy 
with a uible-spoooflil of butler, and half a 
pound of lean new liam ; let tiiem stew very 
gently for an hour, then add three quarts of 
brown gravy soup, and some whole bbK^ 
pepper, with eight or ten ripe tomatas ; let 
it boil an hour and a half, and pulp it through 
a sieve ; serve it with fried bread cut in dice* 

TOMATA SAUCE, FRENCH, a* 
ten or a dozen tomatas into quarters, and 
put them into a saucepan, with four on* 
ions sliced, a little parsley, thvme, one clove* 
and a quarter of a pound of Ixitter ; set tlie 
Ktucepan on the fire, stiiriug occasionally for 
thi-ee-quarters of an hour; strain the sauoa 
through a horse-hair sieve, and ser\'e witli 
tlie directed articles. 

TOMATA SAUCE, ITALUN. Taka 
five or six onions, slice, and put than into 
a saucepan, witli a little thyme, bay-lea^ 
twehe or fifteen tomatas, a bit of hotter, 
salt, half a dozen all>«pioe, a little India aaA 
fron, and a glass of stock ; set them on tha 
fire, taking care to stir it ft^uen;ly, as it is 
apt to stick ; when ^ou perceive die £aiice is 
tolerably thick, strain it like a puree. 

TOMATA KETCHUP. (1) Take trma- 
tas when folly ripe, bake them in a jar till 
tender, strain them, and rob them through m 
sieve. To every pound of juice, add a pint 
of Oiili vine^, an ounce of shalbts, faatt an 
ounce of garlic, both sliced, a qnarter of aa 
ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounca of 
white pepper, finely powdered; boil tha 
whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it 
again tluroi^h the sieve. To every poad 



TOM 



223 



TON 



add the juice of diree kmmw; bofl it asain 
to the consistence of cream; when cold, bot- 
tle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on 
each, tie bladders over, and keep it in a dry 
place. 

TOMATA KETCHUP. (2) Gather a 
peck of tomatas, pick oat tlie stems, and 
wash them ; pot tliem on the fire without 
water ; sprinkle on a few spoonfuls of sah ; 
let tliem boil steadily an hour, stirring them 
frequently ; strain them through a colander 
end then througli a sieve ; put the liquid on 
the fire witli half a pint of chopped onions, 
eighth of an ounce of mace brY)ke into small 
pieces, and if not sufficiently salt, add a little 
more; one table-spoonflil of whole black 
pepper; boil all togedier until just enough 
to fill two bottles ; cork it tight. 

[The seasoning may be varied to suit the 
Caste. Allspice inst'xid of niHce— common 
red pepper instead of black pepper, and less 
chopped onion.] 

TOMATO KETCHUP. (3) One gal- 
lon skinned tomatas, four table-spoons of 
salt, four do. bhick pepper, two do. allspice, 
eij^t pods red pepper, eight table-spoons of 
mustard seed. These articles to be bruised 
fine and simmered slowly in a pint of vinegar 
three hours ; tlien stramed through a hair 
sieve. To be stewed down to half a gallon 
of ketchup. 

TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (1) A sufficient quantity of Silk 
is dissolved in spring or river water to make 
it strong enough to bear an egg ; select per- 
fectly ripe tomatas, and [)iace them well and 
without pressing them, in a stone or glazened 
earthen pot, with a deep plate in such a 
manner that it presses u]x>n the fruit, and by 
tliis simple process tomatas may be preserved 
more tiian a year witliont attention. Before 
cooking them they should be soaked in fresh 
water for several hours. 

TOMATAS, METHOD OF PRE- 
SERVING. (2) Gather them carefully 
without braising ; pot them in a stone jar, 
and pour in sti-ong brine, to the top — putting 
on a light weight to keep them eently pressed 
down below tlie sur&ce of the brine. Soak 
. them in fresh water and cook them in the 
tnoal way, seasoning to suit the taste, as 
when freni from the vine. 

TOMATA MARMALADE. Gadier 
full-grown tomatas while quite ^reen ; take 
out the stems and stew them till soft; rub 
tliem through a sieve ; put the pulp on the 
fire, seasoned highly with ptepper, salt and 
powdered cbves; add some garlic, and stew 
all together till ^ick. It keeps well, and is 



enoellent for seasoning gravies. Besides tfii 
numerous modes of preparing this delicioui 
vegetable for the table, it may be stewed^ 
after being peeled) with susar, like cranber* 
ries and gooseberries, producing a tart equal 
to either of those finiits. Tomattu mak4 
good pickles, pickled green ; to peel tlieiit, 
pour boiling water on them, when the skio 
will come criff easily. 

TONGUE. (1) A tongue which hat 
not been dried will require very little soak- 
ing, but if dried, it should be soaked iO 
water for three or four hours ; then nul it 
into cold water, and let it boil gently tiU 
tender. 

TONGUE. (2) A tongue is so hard, 
whether prepared by drying or pickling, tliat 
it requires much more cooking than a ham; 
nothing of its weight takes so long to digest 
it properly. 

A tongue that has been salted and dried 
should be put to soak (if it is old and ver^ 
hard, 24 hours before it is wanted) in plen- 
ty of water ; a green one fresh from the pic- 
kle requires soaking only a few hours: |ial 
your tongue into plenty of cold water; let 
It be an hour gradually warming; and give 
it fh)m three and a half to four houre* very 
slow simmering, according to the size, &c~ 

06». — When you choot^e a tongue, en- 
deavor to learn how long it has been dried 
or pickled, pick out the plumpest, and that 
which has flic siiiootliest skin, which de- 
notes its being young and tender. 

The roots, &c. make an excellent relish 
potted, or peas soup. 

TONG'TE, TO STEW. Wash it very 
clean, and rub it well witli common salt and 
a little saltpetre ; let it lie two or three days, 
and tlien boil it till the skin will pull off. 
Put it into a saucepan, with part of the li- 
quor it has been boiled in, and a pint of 
good stock. Season with black and Ja-' 
maica pepper, and two or three pounded 
cloves; add a glass of white wine and a 
table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 
one of lemon pickle ; thicken the sauce with 
butter rolled in flour, and poiu* it over tlie 
topgue. 

TONGUE, PICKLED, GLAZED, 

Boil a lar^ tongue till it be tender, skio 
and glaze it, and serve it with mashed tur- 
nips on one side, and mashed carrots, or 
carrots and spinach on the other. 

TONGUE, POTTED. See Ham, 

TONGUES, TO SALT. Salt tw« 
tongues, and turn them e\^ery day for four or 
five days ; tlien rub them with two ounces 



TRI 



334 



TRI 



of oomnKMi nit, one of brown mgjur, and half 
an ounce of saltpetre ; turn tliem daily, and 
in a fortnight they may be used. 

The becRt MMrt of vessel for salting them 
in is an earthen-ware pan, as wide at top 
as bottom, so that the tongues may lie in it 
^-ways. 



TRIFLE. (1) Add to a pint of rich 
oream a tea-cupful of white wine, sweeten it 
with pounded loaf sugar, whisk it well, and 
as the froth rises lay it upon a sieve placed 
over a deep dish; as it drains, pour the 
cream into the pan in which it is whisked 
till all ia done ; dip some s|X>nge biscuit, rata- 
fia cakes, or Savoy biscuit, into sweet wine 
and a little brandy; pour over them a rich 
boiled custard, and when quite cold, lay on 
tlie whipt cream, piled as high as potisible. 
Colored comfits may be strewed over the 
top. 

TRIFLE. (2) Mix three table-spoon- 
fuls of white wine, and one of sugar, with a 
pint and a half of thick cream; whisk it, 
and take off as much froth as will heap upon 
the dish, into which lay some pieces of 
sponge cake, or some sponge biscuit, soaked 
with sweet wine, and covei'ed with preserv- 
ed strawberries, or any other fruit; pile tlie 
froth upon this, and pour the remainder of 
the cream into the bottom of the dish ; gar- 
nish with flowers. 

TRIFLE. (3) Cover the bottom of 
the dish with Naples biscuits, and maca- 
roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and 
white wine, poured over them ; cover them 
with patches of raspberry jam ; fill tlie dish 
willi a good custard, then whip n\, a sylla- 
bub, drain the frotli on a sieve ; put it on 
the custard, and strew comfits over all. 

TRIPE. Take care to have fresh trijie; 
cleanse it well from the fiit, and cut it into 
pieces about two inches broad and four long ; 
put it into a stewpan, and cover it wilii 
milk and water, and let it boil gently till it 
is lender. 

If the tripe has been prepared as it usual- 
ly is at the tripe shops, it will be enough in 
about an hour, (this depends upon how lung 
it has been previously boiled at tlie tripe 
shop) ; if entirely undressed, it will require 
two or three hours, arxx)rding to the age 
and quality of it. 

Make some onion sauce in the same man- 
ner as YOU do for rabbits, or boil (slowly by 
themselves) some Spanish or the whitest 
common onions you can get ; peel them be- 
fore you boil them ; when they are tender, 
which a middling-sized onion will be in 
about three-quartera of an hourj drain them 
in a trair sieve, take off the top skins til] 



they look nice and white, and put tlieai 
with the tripe into a tureen or soup-dish, 
and take off the fat if any floats on the 
surface. 

Oba, — ^Rashers of bacon, or fried sao- 
sa^ are a very good accompaniment to 
boiled tripe, cow-heeb or calf's feet, see 
Kelly's sauce or parsley and butter, or ca- 
per sauce, with a littJe vinegar and mus- 
tard added to them, or salad mixture. 

Tripe holds the same rank among solids, 
that water gruel does among soups, and the 
former is desirable at dinner, when the lat- 
ter is welcome at supper. 

TRIPE, TO FRY. Cut it into bits 
three or four inches sc]uare ; make a hatter 
thicker than for pancakes, of tliree egaa 
beaten up with flour and milk, a little saR, 
pepper, and nutmeg ; dip in the tripe, and 
fiy It in butter, or fiesh dripping, of a liglit 
brown color. Serve it garnighed with par»- 
kry. Sauce; — melted butter with lemoo 
pickle in it. 

TRIPE PIE. Lay into the bottom of 
a dish some tliinly-sliced cold or raw ham, 
then put in a layer of tripe with the jeliy 
adhering to it, season with pepper and sak» 
and add a bit of butter; fill the dish in tlija 
manner, and put in a few table-spoonfiib 
of brt)wu stof^; c^ver tlie dish with puff 
paste. A beefsteak may be substituted for 
the ham, laid into the bottom, and the dish 
filled up with tri|)e. 

TRIPE, TO BOIL. Clean it extreme- 
ly well, and take off the fat; let it lie a 
night in salt-and-water, again wash it well, 
and let it lie in milk-and-water for the same 
length of time ; then cut it into small pieces, 
rull and tie them with thread; put them, 
with a clean- washed marrow-bone, into a 
linen Ixig; tie it ckisely, and put it into a 
stewpan that has a cover to fit quite close- 
ly, fill it up with water, and let it boil 
gently for six hours, l^uke the tripe out 
of tlie bag, put it into a jar, and p<Mir over 
it the liquor hi which it was lx>ilea. When 
to be dressed, boil some wliole small onions 
in a part of the liquor, add a little salt, then 
put in the tripe and heat it thoroughly. 

Or it may be fried in butter fricasseed, or 
stewed in a brown sauce. 

Instead of being boiled in a bag, the tripe 
may be put, with some salt and whole pep- 
per, into a stone-ware jar, which must have 
a piece of linen tied over it, and a pkite laid 
upon the top. The pot should always bo 
kept full of boiling water, taking care Uiat 
it do not boil into the jar. 

TRIPE, TO ROAST. Cut tlie' hipe 
into two oblong pieces, make a forcemeat 



TRO 



325 



TUN 



of bretid cnmn ud diopped ptirriey, Bea- 
Mned with pepper and salt; bind ft with 
the yolks or two eggs ; spread it upon the 
fat side of the tripe, and lay on the other 
fiit side; then roll it very tightly^ and tie it 
with packthread. Roast, and raste it with 
bntter: it will take one hoar, or one hour 
and a bidT. Serve it with melted butter, 
into whidi pot a table-spoonfiil of ketchup 
and one of lemon pickle. 

TRIPS, BREADED. Cut yoor tripe 
into small square pieces, and give them a 
few turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, 
and pepper; roll each bit in grated bread, 
and broil them riowly. When done, serve 
them with dices of lemon. 

TROUT, tliis fish is faeM in great 
estimation, it is a firesh water fish, and 
whoi good, of a flesh color, and the spots 
mon it are very brkht ; the female is con- 
sidered the best, and is known by the head 
being smaller, and the body being deeper 
than that of die male. 

TROUT, POTTED. Mix together 
the folk)wiag quanti^ of fbely-powdered 
spices: — One ounce of'^dov^, hair an ounce 
of Jamaica pepper, quarter 6f an ounce of 
black pepper, quarter of an oatice of cay- 
enne, two nutmegs, a little mace, and two 
tea-spoonfhis of giitfer; add the weight of 
the spices, and half as much again of salt, 
and mix all thoroughly. Clean the fish, and 
cut off the heads, ims, and tails ; put a tea- 
spoonful of the mixed spices into each fish, 
and lay ihem into a deep earthen jar, with 
the backs downwards; cover them with 
clarified butter, tie a papet over the mouth 
of the jar, and bake them slowly for eight 
hours. When the back bone is tender, the 
fish are done enough. Take them out of 
the jar, and put them into a milkpan with 
the backs upwards; cover them with a 
board, and place upon it a heavy weight. 
When pofecdy cold, remove the fish into 
fresh jars, smooth than with a knife, and 
cover them with clarified butter. 

TROUT, TO COLLAR. Wash them 
clean, split them down the back bone, and 
dr^ them well in a cloth ; season them well 
with finely-pounded black pepper, sak, and 
mace; roil them ti^t, and lay them close 
into a dish; pour over an equal quantity of 
vinegar and beer, with two or three bay- 
leaves, and some whole black pepper; tie 
over the dish a sheet of battered paper, and 
bake them an hour. 

TROUT, TO BROIL. Cut ofi" the fins, 
and cut the fish down the back, close to the 
bone, and split the head in two. Another 



way is, after they have been cot open, to 
rub a little salt over them ; let them he three 
<N* four hours, and then hsmg them up in the 
kitchen. They will be ready to broil the 
next morning ror breakfast. 

TROUT, TO BOIL. Clean and gut 
them ; make the water a« salt as for boil- 
ing salmon in, and when it boils put in the 
trout, and let them boil fast fi^m fiileen 
to twenty minntes, according to their size. 
Sauce; — melted butter. 

TROUT, TO FRY. Cut off the fins, 
clean and gut them; dust them with fiour, 
and dip them into the yolk of an e^ beaten ; 
strew grated bread crumbs over, and fry them 
in fre^ dripping; lay them upon the back 
of a sieve before the fire to dndn. Sauce; 
— smelted butter, with a table-spoonful of 
ketchup, and one of lemon pickle in it. 
When they are smaU, roll them in oatmeal 
before they are fi-ied. 

TRUFFLES. The truffle, like the mush- 
room, is a roecies of yVngtis common in 
France and Italy ; it generally grows about 
eight or ten incn^ below the surface of the 
ground ; as it imparts a most delicious flavor. 
It is much used in cookery. Beins dug out 
of the earth, it requires ajp'eat deal of wash- 
ing and brushing, before it can be applied to 
culinary purposes; when washed, the water 
should be warm, and changed frecjuently. It 
loses much of its flavor when dried. 

TRUFFLE SAUCE. Mince two or 
three truffles very sn^l, and toss them up 
lightly, in either oil or butter, according to 
your taste ; then put to them four or five la- 
dlefols of veloute and a spoonful of con- 
somme; let it boil for about a quarter 
of an hour over a gentle fire, skim ofl^ all 
the fet; keep your sauce hot in the bain' 
marie. 

TRUFFLES TOURTE. Take two 
pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick them ; 
put them into a stewpan, with six thin slices 
of ham, a very little carrot, a sliced onion, 
a l^y-leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and 
Champagne; lay rashers of bacon over tlie 
whole, and stew them to nearly a jelly* 
When cold, put the truffles into a crust with 
all the seasoning; bake the tourte, and ser\e 
as usual. 

TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Rub two 
ounces of batter into half a pound of dried 
flour ; add a few caraway seeds, and a quar- 
ter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar; mix 
it to a stiff paste with a little water, roll it 
out very thin, cut it into round cakes with 
a glass or the top of a dredging box, prick 



TUE 



TUR 



dieni widi a fiitk, and bake dieai npoo 
floored UiiB* 

TUNBRIDGE PUFFS. Pot into a 
nioely-tiniMid sauioepan a pint of milk, and 
idten it boib, stir in as much flour as will 
make it a thick batter; add three well- 
beaten eggs, and two or three drops <^ oil 
of cinnamon, or any other seasoning; dust 
a'kirge flat plate with flour, with a spoon 
throw on it the batter, in the form of rails 
or fritters, and drop them into boiling cla- 
rified dripping or bud. Serve than with 
pounded loaf sugar strewed over. 

The batter may be made into a pudding, 
adding with the eggs an ounce of salt but- 
ter. Boil and serve it with a sweet sauce. 

TURBOT. Turbot, when good, shouM 
be thick and fall, and the belly of a }'ellow- 
ish white or cream color. 

TURBOT, BAKED. Wash vour fish 
in several waters, dn* it well, ana soak it 
in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, 
peppor, salt, and nutmeg; in half an hour 
put the whole into a baking diidi, envelope 
It completely in bread crumbs, and bake it. 

TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a 
small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, 
and soak it for an hour in melted butter, 
or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet harbe, 
salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with 
bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, 
squeeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over 
it, and serve. 

TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn 
over the skin of the under side, without cut- 
ting it off; make a/arc«, with some butter, 
parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all 
shred, and united together, with yolks of 
eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; 
spread this all over the under part of the 
fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. 
Dissolve some butter in a saucepan ; add to 
it when melted, the yolk of an ^g, sweet 
herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; nib the fish 
all over with this, then bread, and bake it. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. ( 1) This excellent 
fish is in season the greatest part of the sum- 
mer; when good, it is at once firm and ten- 
der, and alx>unds with rich gelatinous nu- 
triment. 

Bbing drawn, and washed clean, if it be 
quite fi-esh, by rubbing it lightly with salt, 
and keeping it in a ctfld place, you may in 
moderate weather preserve it for a couple 
of days. 

An hour or two before you dre^ it, soak 
it in luring water with some salt m it, then 



■core the ifcin acroH the thickest port of 
the back, to prereirt its breaking on the 
brea^ vdiich will happen firom the flab 
swdling, and cracking the dtin, if this pre- 
caution be not used. Put a large handful 
of salt into a finhJiettle with cokl water, 
lay your fish on a fish-strainer, put it in, 
and when it is comins to a boil, skim it 
well ; then set the ketUe on the side of the 
fire, to boil as gently as possible for about 
fifleen or twenty minutes (if it boils fitst, 
the fidi will break to pieces) ; supposing it 
a middling-sized turbot, and to we^ eight 
or nine pounds. 

Rub a little o( the inside red coral spawn 
of the lobster through a hair sieve, with- 
out butter ; and wh^ the tuibot is dished, 
sprinkle the spawn over it. Garnish the 
dish with flprigs of curled paral^, sliced 
lemon, and finefy-acraped horaeradish. 

If you like to send it to table in full dress, 
surround it with nicely-firied smelts, sudg- 
eooB are often used for this purpose, and may 
be bou^t very cheap when smelts are very 
dear; ny the largest cmposite the Inroadest 
part of me tucbot, so tmtt they may form a 
well-proportioned firinge for it; or oysters; 
or cut a sole in strips, crossways, about the 
size of a smelt ; fiy them and lay than 
round. Send up lobster sauce, two boats 
of it, if it is for a large party. 

06s. — ^The thickest part is the fitvorite; 
and the carver of this fidi must remember 
to ask bis firiends if they are fin-fonciere. 
It will save a troublesome job to the carver 
if the cook, when the fish is boiled, cuts the 
spine bone acroes the middle. 

TURBOT, TO BOIL. (2) Put into 
the turbot kettle, with the water, two large 
handfols of salt, and a tea-cupfiil of vinegar ; 
when it boils very fost, take off the scum ; 

Eat in the turbot, and when it boils again 
eep it boiling fast till the turbot rises from 
the drainer; when it is sufficiently done, 
dish and garnish it with a fi*inge of curled 
parsley and cut lemon. Sauces; — ^lobster 
and melted butier. 

Cold boiled turbot eats wdl with salad 
sauce. 

Turbot is generally considered best per- 
fectly fresh; but some people jvefer it kept 
for a few days, hung up by the tail in a 
cool place. 

TURBOT, GRILLED. Split the fish 
down the back, and soak it for sometime, 
with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, 
salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, 
broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville 
orange-juice. 

TURBOT, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 
Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and 



J 



TUR 



227 



TUR 



iweeC herbs ioto a stewpan, place a amaH 
tnrbot on these, slrew Bimilar herbe, salt, 
pepper, and a leek, cut in pieces over it; 
cover the fish with equal quantities of vine- 
gar, and white wine; m it boil over a 
moderate fire until sufficiently done ; in the 
meantime, melt a pound of butter, add to it 
a couple of boned anchovies, two spoonfuls 
<^ capers, shred small, two ot three leeks, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vin^^r, water, 
and a qprinkling of flour; make all these 
quite hot, stirring constantly till done ; then 
dish the toirbot, pour the sauce over it, and 
serve. 

^-TURKEY, BOILED. Make a stuffing 
of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutm^, lem- 
on-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit 
of butter, some suet, and an ^g; put this 
into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil 
the turkey in a floured clotli to make it very 
while. Have ready some oyster sauce 
noade rich with butter, a little cream, and a 
spoonful of soy, and serve over the turkey, 
or you may serve over ira liver and lemon 
sauce. 

TURKEY, TURKEY POULTS, and 
OTHER Poultry. A fowl and a turkey 
require* the same management at the fire, 
only the latter will take bnger time. 

Many a Christmas dinner has been spoil- 
ed by the turkey having been hung up in a 
cold larder, ana becoming thoroughly firo- 
zcn ; Jtiek Frost has ruined the reputation 
of many a turkey roaster. 

Let them be carefully picked, &c. and 
break the breast bone (to make tliem look 
plump), twist up a sheet of clean writing 
paper, light it, and thoroughly singe the 
twkey all over, tui*ning it about over die 
fiame. 

Turkeys, fowls, and capons have a much 
better appearance, if, instead of trussing 
them with the 1^ close tc^cther, and the 
feet cut off, the legs are extended on each 
side of the bird, and the toes only cut off, 
with a skewer through each foot, to keep 
them at a proper distance. 

Be carefiil, when you draw it, to preserve 
the liver, and not to break the gall-bag, as 
no washing will take off the bitter taste it 
gives, where it once touches. 

Prepare a nice, clear, brisk fire for it. 

HaKe stuffing; stuff it under the breast, 
-where the craw viras taken out, and make 
some into balls, and boil or fry them, and 
lay them round the dish ; they are handy to 
help, and you can then reserve some of the 
inside stuffing to eat with the cold turk^, 
or to enridka hash. 

TURKEY EN DAUBE. Take an old 
turkey, truss it in the usual way ; roll some 



large lardona in a mixture of salt, pepper, 
four BpkxB, and sweet ho^, and tlien uurd 
the turkey with them ; lay slices of bacon 
in a braismg-pan, put the turkey on them, 
with two siuiJl knuckles of veal, the feet of 
the bird, four carrots, six onions, diree 
cloves, two bay-leaves, thyme, a bunch of 
parslcT, and young onions ; cover the whole 
with Dacon and a piece of buttered paper ; 
dilute it with four ladlefuls of stock (or 
more if the turkey be very large), put in a 
little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil 
slowly for three hours and a half; then take 
it off, but do not take the bird out for at 
least half an hour. Strain off the liquor, 
and then reduce it to a fourth, or noore if 
very thin ; break an egg into anodier sauce- 
pan, beat it up well, and then |iour the li- 
quor on it, whisk them well together, and 
if It wants flavor, add a few sweet herbs, 
paraley leaves, and a youn^ onion or two; 
put it on the fire, stirring it violently until 
ready to boil ; as soon as it has boned up 
once or twice ; set it by the side of a stove, 
put fire on tlie top of the saucepan, and let 
it simmer half an hour ; then strain it care- 
folly through a fine cloth, and let it cool to 
serve it widi the turkey. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (1) Gut up the 
remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a 
stewpan, with a elass of white wine, chop- 
ped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, truffles, 
salt and pepper, two spoonfuls of cullis, and 
a little stock ; boil half an hour, and reduce 
to a thick sauce ; when ready, add a pound 
of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon ; skim 
off all the fot from the sauce, and serve all 
together. 

TURKEY, HASHED. (2) Stir a 
piece, of butter rolled in floor into some 
cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils 
up; mince some cold roasted or boiled 
turkey, but not too small; put it into the 
sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white pepper, 
pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup or 
mushroom powder ; simmer it up, and serve. 
Oysters may be added. 

TUHKEY, ROASTED. It may be 
either stuffed with sausage meat, or stuffing 
the siime as for fillet of veal. As this makes 
a large addition to the size of the bird, take 
care that the lieat of the fire is oonstandy to 
that part, as it frequently happens 'Uiat the 
breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of 
paper should be put on the bone to prevent 
its scorching, while the other parts are 
roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve 
wiUi gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a 
sauce tureen. A few bread .crumbs, and a 
beaten egg sliould be added to the stuffing 
of sausage meat. 



TOR 



2S8 



TUR 



TtrnKEY, STUFFED WITH SAU- 
SAGES AND CHESTNUTS. Roast 

what cjinntity of chestnots vou thiok iiece»- 
my, peel tbem, and pound a part of tbein 
to make a faret^ with the liver, chopped 
poraley, sballotB, a little salt and pepper, a 
bit of batter, and the yolks of three raw 
eggs, put thisyBire« into the crop, and stoflT 
the body with the whole diestnuts, and small 
sausages, first fried in butter till about half 
done ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, 
and put paper over that, then roost it, and 
serve with a chestnut cuUis. 

TURNIPS, TO DRESS YOUNG 
WHITE. Wash, peel, and boil them tiD 
tender in water with a little salt; serve them 
with melted butter poured over them. Or, 
Thcv may be stewed in a pint of milk thick- 
ened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and sen'ed 
with the sauce. 

TURNIPS. Peel oifhalfan inch of die 
stringy outside. Full-grown turnips will 
take about an hour and a half gentle boiling ; 
if you slice them, which most people do, they 
will be done sooner; try them witli a i(M-k ; 
when tender, take them up, and lay them on 
a sieve till the water is thoroughly drained 
from them. Send tliem up whole; do not 
slice them. 

TURNIPS, TO Boil Yellow or 
Large White. Wash, pare, and throw 
tbem into cold water; put them on in boiling 
%vater with a little salt, and boil them from 
two hours to two and a half, drain them in 
a cullender, put them into a saucepan, and 
mixing in a bit of butter, with a beater mash 
them very smoothly, add half a pint of milk, 
mix it well with the turnips, and make them 
quite hot before sen'ing. If they are to he 
served plain, dish them as soon as tlic water 
is drained off. 

TURNIP TOPS, Are the shoots which 
grow out (in the spring) of the okl turnip 
roots. Put them into cold water an hour 
before tliey afe to be dressed ; the more wa- 
ter they are boiled in, the better dRey will 
look ; if boiled in a small quantity of water 
they will taste bitter: when the water boils, 
put in a small handful of salt, and then your 
vegetables; if fresh and young, they will be 
d(»ie in about twenty minutes; drain them 
on the back of a sieve. 

TURTLE SOUP. (1) To dress a 
Turtle weighing one hundred and twenty 
pounds. Having cut off the head close to 
the shell, hang up the turtle till tlie next 
day, then open it, bearing the knife heavi- 
ly on the bock of the animal in cutting it 



off ail rooDd; tm it oo its end, that all 
the bkiod and water may nm out, thai cut 
the flesh off ak>ng the spine, sbpii^ the knilb 
towards die boms so as to avoid touching 
the gall, and having also cut the flesh frooi 
the ^gs and other members, warii the whole 
well and drain it. A large vessel of bml- 
ing water being ready on the fire, put in 
the breast riieH, and whm the plates wiO 
separate easily take them out of the water; 
boil the back and belly in water till the soller 
parts can be taken off easily ; but before th^ 
are sufficiently done, as they are to be agaia 
boiled in the sauce, lay thorn to cool smghr 
in earthen vessels that they may not stick 
together, let the bones continue to stew lor 
some time, as the liquor must be used for 
moistening the sauces. 

All the flesh cut finom the body, the four 
1^ and head must be slewed in the following 
manner. Lay a few slices of ham on the 
bottom of a lai^ slewpan, and over the ham 
two or three knuckles of veal, then above the 
veal, tlie inside flesh of the turtle, and that 
of the members over the whole, adding a 
large bunch of sweet herbs, such as sweet 
basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, a hand- 
ful of parsley, and green onions, and a large 
onion stuck with six cloves, llien pertlr 
moisten it with the water in which the shell 
is boiling, and wlien it has stewed some 
time, moisten it again with the liquor in 
which the back and belW have been boiled. 
When tlie legs are tender, take them out, 
drain, and put them aside to be afterwards 
added to the sauce; and when the flesh ir 
completely done, drain it through a silk sieve, 
and mix with the :.auce some very thin white 
roiix; then cut all the softer parts, novr 
suflicienlly cold, into pieces about an inch 
stjuare, add them to tlie sauce, and let then 
simmer gently till tliey can be easily pierced ; 
skim it well. 

Next chop a small quantity of herbs, and 
boil them with a little sugar in four bottles 
of Madeira till reduced to two, then rub it 
through a tammy, mix it with the turtle 
sauce, and let it boil for a short time. Make 
some forcemeat balls as follows: — Cut oflT 
about a pound of meat firom the fleshy part 
of a le? of veal free from sinews or fot, souk 
in milk about the same quantity of crumbs 
of bread ; when quite soft, squeeze and pui 
it into a moitar, togeUier with the veal, a 
small quantity of calf's udder, a little butter, 
the yolks of four hard-boiled eags, a little 
cayenne, salt and spices ; pound die whole 
very finely, then thicken the mixture widi 
two whole e^ and the yolk of a third, throw 
a bit into boiling water, and if notsufficientfy 
firm, add the yolk of another egg, and for 
variety some chopped parsley may be mixed 
witli half of the forcemeat. Let the whole 
coul so that it may be formed into baUs aboat 



I 



TUR 



229 



VEAL 



At fin of the yolk of an egg, poach ihero in 
boiling water, and add them to the tiirtJe. 
Before eerring, mix a little cayenne with 
the joice of two or three lemons, and add it 
to the aoap. It ie graerally preferable to 
"prepare the soup the day before it is required 
for use, and it will be best heated in a water 
bath, or flat vessd oontaining water, which 
is always kept very hot, hot not allowed to 
boiL By the same method, sauces, stews, 
and other made dishes may be kept hot. 

When the fins of the turtle aretobesenred 
as a side dish, they must be first parboiled, 
then skinned, and stewed in a little turtle 
sauce, with some Port wine, and seasoned 
with cavenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice, 
and thickeoed with butter and flour. 

Fricandeanx and Blaaquettes may also be 
made of the flesh of the turtle, in tne same 
way as those (^veal. 

TURTLE SOUP. (2) The day before 
you dress a turtle, chop the herbs, and make 
the ibrcemeat; then, mi the preceding eve* 
nine, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins 
wim a cord ; and pot one round the neck, 
with a heavy weight attached to it to draw 
out the neck, that the head may be cut ofi" 
with more ease ; let the turtle hsuig-all night, 
in which time the blood will be well drained 
fit>m the body. Then, early in Uie morning, 
having your stoves, and plenty of hot water 
in rendiness, take the turtle, lay it on the 
table on its back, and with a strong pointed 
knife cut all round the under shell, (which is 
the callipee) ; there are joints at each end, 
which must be carefully found, gently sepi- 
rating it from the callipash (whidi is the 
upper shell) ; be careful that in cutting out 
the gut you do not bi*eak the gall. When 
the callipeo and the callipnsh are perfectly 
separated^ .take out that part of the got tiiat 
leads from the throat ; tliat, with tlie three 
hearts, put into a basin of water by tliem- 
selves; the other interior part put away. 
Take the callipee, and cot off the meat 
which adheres to it in four quarters, laying 
it on a clean dish. Take twenty pounds of 
veal, chop it up, and set it in a large pot, as 
directed for etpagnoU, putting in tlie flesh 
of the turtle at the same time, with all kinds 
of turtle herbs, carrots, onions, one pound and 
a half of lean ham, pepper corns, salt, a little 
spice, and two bay loives, leaving it to stew 
till it takes the cuAor of Mpagnfde; put the 
fins (the skin being scalded off) and hearts in, 
half an hour before you fill it, with half wa- 
ter, and half beef stock ; then carefully skim 
it ; put in a bunch of pai-sley, and let it boil 
gently, like anuomme. While the turtle is 
«tewing, carefiilly scald the head, the calli- 
pee, and all that is soft of the callipash, at- 
tentively observing to take off the smallest 
pwrticle of skin that may remain ; put them 



with the got into a large pot of water to boil 
till tender; when so, take them out, and cut 
them in squares, putting them in a basin fay 
themselves till wanted for the soup. Tlw 
next thing is the thickening of the soup, 
which must be prepared in the same manner 
as sauce toumee. The turtle being well 
done, take out the fins and hearts, and lay them 
on a dish ; the whole of the liquor must pass 
throtKh a sieve into a large pan ; then, with 
a ladfe, take off all the fi&t, put it into a ba- 
sin, Uien mix in the turtle liquor (a small 
quantity at a time) with the thickening made 
die same as »auc€ taumee; but it does not 
require to, neither nnist it be, one twentieth 
part so thick ; set it over a brisk fire, and 
continue stirring till it boils; when it has 
boiled two hours, being skimmed all the 
while, squeeze it through the tainmy into 
another large stewpan, put it on the fire, and 
stir it as before, till it boils; when it has 
boiled gently for one hour, put in tlie calli- 
pee and callipash, with the gut, hearts, and 
some of the best of the meat and head, all 
cot in squares, with the forcemeat balls and 
herbs, which you should have ready chopped 
and stewed m eapagnole; (the herbs are 
parsley, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, sa- 
vory, and a few diopped mushrooms). It 
must be carefully attended to and skimmed, 
and one hour and a half before dinner, put in 
a bottle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a 
bottle of brandy, keeping it continually boil- 
ing gendy, and skimming it; then take a 
basin, put a little cayenne pepper into it, 
with the juice of six lemons squeezed Uirougb 
a sieve. When the dinner is wanted, skim 
the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little 
salt, if necessary ; tlien stir in tiie cayenne 
and lemon-juice, and ladle it into the tureen. 
This receipt will answer for a turtle between 
fifty and sixty pounds. 

ICJ^ For Mock Turtle and other 
Soups, See Soups, 

TWELFTH CiTKE laNG. See 
lemg* 



V. 



VEAL. The names of the joints are as 
follows: Loin, best end — Loin, chump end 
—Fillet— Hind Knuckle— Fore knuckle- 
Neck, best end — Neck, scrae end— -Blade 
bone — Breast, best end — Brisket end. 

Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, 
white, and fet, and the les bone small. The 
finest calves have the smallest kidney, au'^. its 
being well covered with thick white fat, in- 
dicates good veal. The fillet of a oow calf 
is to be preferred, on account of the udder. 
The prime joints are the fillet, the foin, the 



VEAL 



230 



VEAL 



dump «iid of the loin, and dw best end of 
the oeck. To keep it, the wme directions 
may be folbwed, which are given for keeping 
beef. 

When the fillet is to be roasted, it should 
be washed, well dried, and tlie bone taken 
oat, and the space filled with a fine stnfiing, 
part of which should be put under the flap, 
then formed into a rouna and firmlv d^ew- 
«red. That the fire may be clean and strong, 
it should be made up sometime before putting 
down the roast, which sliould at first be 
placed at some distance from it, and be fi^e- 
quently and well basted with butter. When 
about half roasted, a piece of white paper is 
tied over the fiit ; a little before sen'ing, it 
is removed, the meat is then sprinkled with 
salt, dredged with flour, and well baited to 
froth it. When dished, finely melted butter 
is poured over it, with which may or may 
not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown 
gravy. It is garnished with cut lenKMi. 

Veal b expected to come to table looking 
delicately clean ; and it is so easily discol- 
ored, that you must he carefol to have clean 
water, a clean vessel, and constantly catch 
the scum as soon and as long as it rises. 
Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled 
pork, greens, and parsley and butter, and 
onion sauce. 

Veal requires particular care to roast il a 
nice brown. Let the fire be tlie same as for 
beef; a sound large fire for a large joint, and 
a brisker for a smaller; put it at some dis- 
tance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and 
then draw it near to finish it brown. 

When first laid down, it is to be basted; 
baste it again occasionally. When tlie veal 
is on the dish, pour over it half a pint of 
melted butter: if you liave a little brown 
gravy b^ you, add that to the butter. With 
those joints which are not stufled, send up 
forcemeat in IkiIIs, or rolled into sausages, as 
'garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages ; 
bacon and greens, are also always expected 
with boiled veal. 

Fillet of Veal, Of from twelve to sixteen 
pounds, will require from four to five hours 
at a good fire ; make some stuffing or force- 
meat, and put it in under the flap, that there 
may be some left to eat cold, or to fleason a 
hasii ; brown it, and pour good melted butter 
over itr 

Garnish with thin slices of lemon and 
cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or 
fried pork sausages, curry sauce, bacon and 
greens, &c. 

A bit d* the brown outside is a fovorite 
with the epicure in roasts. The kidney, cut 
out, sliced, and broiled, is a high relish, 
which some bona vivantt are fond of. 

A Loin, Is the best part of the calf, and 
will take about three hours roasting. Pa- 
per the kidney fi&t, and the back: some 



cooks aend it up oo a toast, which is eaten 
with the kidn^ and the fot <^ this part, 
which is as delicate as any marrow. If 
there is mare of it than vou think will be 
eaten with the veal, before you raaal it cut 
it out ; it will make an excellent aoet pod- 
ding; take care to have your fire long 
enough to brown the ends; same aooom- 
paniments as above. 

A Shoulder, From three hours to three 
hours and a lialf ; stuff it with the force- 
meat ordered for the fillet of veal, in the 
under side. 

jVeck, hett end. Will take two hours; 
same accompaniments as fillet. The scrag 
part is best made into a pie, or broth. 

Breast, From an hour and a half to two 
hours. Let the caul remain till it is almost 
done, th^n take it off to brown it ; baste, 
flour, and froth it. 

This makes a savory relish for a luncheon 
or supper: or, instead of roasting, boil it 
enough ; put it in a cloth between two pew- 
ter dishes, with a weiglit on the upper one, 
and let it remain so till cold; then pare 
and trim, egg, and crumb it, and broils or 
warm it in a Dutch oven; serve with it 
capers, or wow wow sauce. Breast of 
mutton may be dressed the same way. 

VEAL ALAMODE. See Beef Alor. 

mode, 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED WITH 
Green Peas. Make a quart (^ gravy 
with tiie scra^ end ; strain it ; cut the rest 
of tlie veal into small pieces of nearly an 
equal siase; put it into a stewpan witli tlie 
gravy, some pepper, salt, mace, half an 
ounce of butter, and a quart of green peas. 
Cover the pan closely, and let it stew nearly 
two hours ; then put in a lettuce cut small, 
and let it stew half an liour longer. A lit- 
tle before serving, add half an ounce c^ 
browned butter, mixed with a little flour. 

VEAL BREAST, BROILED. Half 

roast and tlien score It ; season it with pacra- 
ley, a few finely-minced sweet herbs, a lit- 
tle pepper and salt, and broil it. Make a 
sauce witli some gravy seasoned with onion, 
grated nutmeg, mace, salt, and an anchovy ; 
boil and strain it; thicken it with flour and 
butler. Add some minced capers and small 
mushrooms ; pour it quite hot over the veal. 
Garnish with sliced lemon. 

VEAL BREAST, COLLARED. Bone 
it, and lay over it a thick layer of force- 
meat, made with bread crumbs, chopped 
oysters, parsley, and grated ham, seasoned 
with lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
mixed with an egg beaten up. Roil and 
bind it with tape; boil it in a cloth, and put 



1 



VEAL 



231 



VEAL 



it OD ID boilioff water ; let it boil gently for 
three houm. doW the booes with an onion, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; 
strain and thicken it with three table-spoon- 
fills of cream, the yolks of two eg^ beaten 
ap, and a bit of butler mixed widi flour. 
Parboil and slice the s w ee t bread, dtp it 
into an egg, and strew over it grated bread ; 
fry it with forcemeat balb. Serve the 
veal with the sauce poured over it. CSar- 
nish with the sweeUiread and forcemeat 
balls. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (1) Half 
roast the veal till of a li^t brown, then 
stew it over a stove for two boors, in a 
rich gravy, with a shallot, three cloves, a 
blade of mace, a little wahiut pickle, some 
oyster liquor, and a few small mushrotnns. 
Half an hoiur b^M« serving, add a little 
anchovy liquor. Garnish with cut lemon 
and curled parsley. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (2) Out 
out the blade bone, and stnff the whole widi 
a nice forcemeat; sew it up, half roast it, 
and make a quart of gravy <^ the bones and 
trimmines; season it with whole peppor, 
two blaoBs of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, a 
large onion, some salt, and a bunch of pars- 
ley. Strain and thicken it with butter roll- 
ed in flour; put in the veal, and a table- 
spoonful of vinesar; let it stew nearly two 
hours. A Iittlel)efore serving, add a table- 
epoonful of kmaa pickle, imd a fflass of 
white wine. Forcemeat balk may oe serv- 
ed with it. 

VEAL BREAST, STEWED. (8) Gut 
off* the short bones or gristles of a breast 
of veal ; stew them in a little white stock, 
with a slice of ham, an onion stuck with 
one or two cloves, some whole pepper, a 
bunch of parsley, and a little salt. When 
tender, take out die meat, strain the stock, 
and put it on with a pint and a half of 
green peas; boil them, and add the veal, 
and let them stew for twenty minute. 
Serve the gristles in the middle, and the 
peas round them. 

VEAL BROTH. See Broth. 

VEAL, BROWN ROLLKLOPS. Cut 
off some thin slices from a fillet of veal, and 
beat them. Take part of the (at firom the 
loin and kidney : mince it finely with a 
small bit of veal, and six anchovies; season 
with sale, pounded gincer, and mace; put 
rt over the sliced of veal, and roll them up. 
Dip tbein into the beaten yolk of an egg, 
and then into grated bi'ead ; repeat this a 
second time, and fry them of a nice brown 
Mlor in danfied beef dripping, then stew 



them in some good ffravy, adding a littla 
walnut pickle and half a pmt of white wine. 

VEAL CAKE. Take some nice thin 
slices of veal, and season them with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, grated; have ready 
some hard-boiled esgs, sliced, and put a 
layer of these at the bottom of a basin 
or pan, thm a layer of veal, then some slices 
of nam, over this strew maijpram, thyme, 
parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs and lemon- 
peel, chopped small ; then a layer of eggi, 
veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan 
is filled; poor some good gravy over the 
whole, cover the pan with coarse brown 
paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake 
in a slow oven ; an hour will be sufficient 
to bake it; when cold, torn it out npon a 
disAi, and serve; gamiah with parsley. 

VEAL CAKE, to be eaten cold. Pound 
in a mortar as much cold roasted l^n veal 
as will fill a small mould, together with h 
slice of ham, or bacon, a piece of the crumb 
of bread soaked in cold milk, two beaten 
eggs, a small bit of butter, the same of shal- 
lot, or onion ; season with pepper and salt, 
and mix all well toother; butter the mould, 
fill it, and bake it m an oven for about an 
hour; turn it out when cold, and cut it into 
slices. Garnish with pickled egga and pars- 
ley. 

VEAL COLD. Cnt some cold veal into 
thin slices, die sise and thickness of a half 
crown, dip them into the yolk of an eg^ 
well beaten, cover them with bread crumra, 
sweet herbs, lemon-peel shred fine, and 
grated nutm^. Put a little fresh butter in- 
to a pan, make it ouite hot, fiy the veal in 
it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the 
side of the fire ; make a little gravy of a 
Ixme of veal, shake a little floor into the 
pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little 
lemoh-juice, pour it over the veal, and gar- 
nish with lemon. 

VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take 
six or seven handsomely cut chops, season 
them well with salt and pepper, and put them 
into melted butter ; when sufficiently soaked, 
pot them into beaten eggs, take them out, 
and roll each separately in bread crumbs; 
make the chops as round as you can with 
your hand, and lay them on a dish ; when 
all are breaded, biroil tb^n slowly over a 
moderate fire, that the bread may not be too 
highly colcHned. Serve with clear gravy. 

VEAL, TO COLLAR. Bone a breast 
of veal, and beat it flat; cover the inside 
with a nice stuffing moistened with c^ggs; 
roll it very tightly, bind it, and bake it in an 
oven with some weak stock in the dish. 



V£AL 



222 



VEAL 



Mak« a rich gravy ; straio and thickea it, 
and poor it over the veal. Serve with or 
without forcemeat balls, and earnish with 
cut lemon; It will keep for along time in 
a pickle made with bran and water, a little 
aalt, wad vinegar, poured cold over it. 

VEAL CONES. Mince small one pound 
and a half of cold veal, two ouncee of butter, 
and a slice of lean ham ; pound them iu a 
mortar, and mix, in five lable-spoonfiila of 
cream, two tea*«poonfuls of pepper, one of 
salt, and some grated lemon^jeef. Make it 
up into cones Mout three inches high ; rub 
them over with an egg beaten vip, sift grated 
bi^ead over them, and fi^ them of a li^t 
brown color; put fried bread crumbs into 
the di^, and place the cones upon them, or 
eerve them with a brown gravy instead of 
crumbs. Cold fowl, turkey, or rabbit make 
good cones. Half the ingredients will be 
sufficient ibr a comer dish. 

VEAL, COLD DRESSED. Mioee 
finely the &t and lean of cokl roairt veal, 
season it with grated nutm^, lemon-peei, 
pepper, and salt; moisten it with a little 
rich white stock, and a beaten e^; batter 
a pudding, shape, po^ in the mince, and 
press it firmly, cover it doflelv, and set it 
into a pan <h boiling water; let it boil an 
hour or two. Serve it with a white gravy 
thickened, or when turned out of the shape, 
rub it over the top with the beaten ydlk of 
an e^; sift bread crumbs thiddy ov^, and 
brown it in a Dutch oven ; baste it with a 
little melted butter. Garnish with fi*ied 
parsley or cut lemon. . 

VEAL CUTLETS. (1) Let your cutlets 
be about half an inch thick ; trim them, and 
flatten them with a cleaver; you may fry 
tliem in fresh butter, or good drippings ; when 
brown on one side, turn them and do the 
other; if the fire is ven^ fierce, they must 
change sides oftener. The time thi^ will 
take depends on the thickness of the cutlet 
and the lieat of the fire; half an inch thick 
will take about fifteen minutes. Make some 
gravy, by putting the trimmings into a stew- 
pan with a little soft water, an onion, a roll 
of lemon>peel, a blade of maoe, a sprig of 
tliyme and parsley, and a bay leaf; stew 
over a slow nre an hour, then strain it ; put 
an ounce of butter into a stewpan ; as soon 
a» it is melted, mix with it as much flour as 
will dry it up, stir it over the fire fi>r a few 
minutes, then add the ^vy by degrees till 
it is all mixed, boil it for five minutes, 
and strain it throi:^h a tamis sieve, and put 
it to the cutlets; you may add some brown- 
ing, mushroom, or walnut ketchup, or lemon 
pickle, &c.: Or, Cut the veal into pieces 
about as bi^ as a crown-piece, beat them 



with a cleaver, dip them in egg* besit op 
with a little salt, and then in fine favead 
crumbs ; fiy them a light brown in boiling 
lard ; serve under them some good gravy or 
mushroom sauce, which ma^ \x made in five 
minutea. Garnish with ^ces ef ham or 
rashns of baoon, or poi'k sansages. 

Veal forcemeat er stuffing, pork saosages, 
rashers of baoon, are very relirinng accom- 

Giments, fi-ied tead sent up in the form of 
B or csJ&es, and laid roimd as a ganiisfa. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (2) Cut a neck of 
veal inur cutlets, or take them off a leg. 
Season two welJUbeatea eggs with pounded 
maoe, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and finely-chop- 
ped sweet marjoraia, lemon tl^me, and pars- 
ley; dip the cutlets into it, sift over them 
raraied bread, and fiy them in cKvified butler. 
Serve with a while sanoe, forcemeat balls, 
and small mmduoomfi. Garnish with firied 
parsley. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (3) Oit a neck 
of veal into thin cotlets, and beat thttn; 
brown some butter with an onion and some 
parsley diopped small. D^ the cutlets into 
the butter, and then into finely grated bread, 
seasoned with pei4)er and salt; broil them 
of a brown color; mince the peel of half m 
orange piired very thin ; add it and a grate 
of ginger to somegood thickened gravy, and 
pour it hot npon the eutkefs. 

VEAL CUTLETS. (4) Cut them off 
a leg, or finnn the drick part of a lohi of 
veal; beat them a little with a rolling-pin, 
and fry them in butler of a light brown. 
Take them out of ifae pan, poor off the but- 
ter, and strew over them grated bread, sea- 
soned with mlaoed parsk^and Icnhon thyme, 
grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt. Pot them into a stewpan, wtdi a piece 
of fresh butter, and let ihem fi^ysfewly tillof 
a good brown. Add a quarter of a iiint of 
good gravy, and a small tea-<cn(4hl ef thick 
cream ; let it be made va^ h(k, fireqoentW 
shaking the pan. Serve it garnished with 
cut l^on or forcemeat bara, mudhrooiiis, 
and false eggs. False egea arfe made of tfaiie 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, which are 
rubbed smooth, and then mem up wi^ fresh 
butter into the form of small ^gs. 

VEAL CUTLETS, VfiNItlA-N. Cat 
into neat cutlets the beer part of a neck of 
veal; trim and flatten them. Cb<^ eepH- 
rately half a pint of mCMfaroonu, a few shd- 
lotB, and a little parsley ; stew these over a 
slow fire, with a small bit of butter and a 
little rasped fat bacon. When done, pot m 
the cutlets, and season them well whh pepper 
and salt, and let them stew over a clow fire 
till quite tender; skim off the fat, and add 



i 



VEAL 



233 



VEAL 



a spoonfiil of Huioe tommee, and the yolks 
of three eggs beaten with a little cream, tlien 
mix in the juice of a lemoo, and a little cay- 
enne. 

VEAL, FILLET, STEWED. Bone, 
lard, and stuff a fillet of veal ; half roast, aod 
then stew it with two quarts of white stock, 
a tea-epoonful of lemon pickle and one of 
mushroom ketchup. Belore serving, strain 
the gravy, thick^ it with butter rolled in 
floor, add a little cayenne, salt, and some 
pickled mushrooms; heat it, and pour it over 
the veal. Have ready two or tlii'ee dozen of 
fi>roaiieat balls to put round it and upon the 
top. Garnish with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FLORENTINE. Take two 
veal kidneys, and mince them with their 
&t, very small, and mix it with a few cur- 
rants, the yolks of four or five eggs, Iwiled 
hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, 
some bread crumbs, candied lefflon-))eel, cut 
small, and season with nutmeg, cluves, salt, 
mace, a little mountain wine, and some 
orange-flower water ; line the bottom of a 
dish with a nice puff paste, put in the above, 
cover it with puff paste, and set it to bake 
in a slow oven. 

VEAL FORCEMEAT. Of undressed 
lean veal (after you have scraped it quite 
fine, and free from skin and sinews), two 
CMinces, the same quantity of beef or veal 
suet, and the same of bread crumbs ; cliop 
fine two drachms of paraley, one of leiuon- 
peel, one of sweet herbs, one of onion, and 
naif a druchm uf mace, or allspice, beaten to 
fine powder ; pound all together in a mortar ; 
break into it the yolk and white of an egg ; 
rub it all up well tugellier, and season it with 
a little pepper and salt. This may be made 
inure savory by the addition of cold boiled 
pickled tongue, anchovy, eschalot, cayenne 
or curry powder, &c. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (1) Cut a piece 
of veal from the leg, tiie same in widtii and 
deptii, and about eight inches in length. 
Make a hole in the under part, and ml it 
with forcemeat; sew it up, lard the top and 
sides, cover it with slices of fat bacon, and 
then with white paper. Put into a sauce- 
pan some slices of undressed mutton, tbi-ee 
onions and one carrot sliced, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, and a quart of good stock ; put 
in the veal, cover tiie pan closely, and let it 
stew for three hours. Take out the veal, 
strain the gravy, and take off all tlie £it; 
add a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, and 
three of white wine ; boil it quick to a glaze ; 
keep the firicandeau over hot water and oov- 
ored,^thcn glaze it, and seiire with tlie rest 

20* 



of the glaze poured roond it, and socrel soooi^ 
in a sauce tureeo. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (2) Cot some 
slices of veal, lard them all through, and put 
them into a saucepan with some white stock, 
and a bit of ham, one onion, a little mace 
and pepper. Stew them gently an hour and 
a half; take them out, strain the gravy, and 
take off all the fat; boil it up quickly, lay in 
tlie firicandeau, and stew thc»n till die liquor 
becomes like a brown jelly ; take care they 
do not bum. Scald in boiling water three 
handfuls of sorrel, chop it, take out the meat, 
and make the sorrel hot in the sauce, and 
serve the firicandeau upon it. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (3) Chopveir 
finely one pound of tlie lean of a Join of veal, 
and half a pound of tlie kidney fat ; season 
it with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, tlie 
juice of one lemon, and a finely-shred an- 
chovy. Soak, in boiling milk, two rusks, 
or biscuits, and mix it all well togeUier; 
make it into balls, with a little flour. Fry 
ihem of a light brown, in butter, then stew 
tliem in bome highly-seasoned gravy, dish 
them carefully, and strain the gravy over 
diem. Garniifh with cut lemon. 

VEAL, FRICANDEAU. (4) Take the 
round or part of the round of a fillet, fry it 
in butter, of a nice brown, with onions cot 
in slices, and a little gai'lic, tlien set it to 
slew in souie very rich gravy or cnllis: wheo 
tender, take it out, thicken die gravy with 
flour, add a little lemon-juice, and serve 
this sauce over the veal. 

VEAL FRITTERS. Cut die ranain 
of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, 
round pieces; dip tliese into a good batter, 
and fry them in the usual way, in oil. When 
done, drain, sprinkle sak over, and serve 
them.. 

VEAL, HASHEI\OR MINCED. To 
make a hash cut the meat into slices; — to 
prepare minced veal, mince it as fine as 
possible (do not chop it) ; put it into a stew- 
pan with a few spoonfuls of veal or mutton 
broth, or make some with the bones and 
trimmings, as ordered for veal cutlets, a little 
lemon-peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or 
cream; thicken with butter and flour, and 
season it with salt, a table-spoonful of lemon 
pickle, or Basil wine, or a pinch of curry 
powder. 

If you have no cream, beat up the yolks 
of a couple of eggs with a little milk: line 
the dish with sippets of lightly toasted bread. 

Minced veal makes a very pretty dish put 
into scollop shells, and bread crumbed over* 



VEAL 



234 



VfiAL 



fmA Bprrnkleci wiffi a little bolter, and brown- 
ed in a Dutch oven, or a eheese-toaster. 

TEAL, KEBOBBED. Oit into thin 
bhfl the siae of a crown-pieoe 80ttielean veal; 
oeason diem widi tumeric^ pepper, and salt. 
81^ onione very thinly, ana some garlic: 
pot the elioea of veal and (mion upon a sRewer, 
together widi thin bits of pickled pork. Fry 
them brown with butter, and garnish with 
plenty of fried parsleyt 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, RAGOUT. Cut 
a knuckle of veal into slices about half an 
inch tliick; pqmer, salt, and flour them; 
fiy them a light orown ; pot the trimmings 
into a stewpan, widi the imne iNx>ke in sev- 
eral places; an onion sliced, a head of cele- 
ry, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two blades 
of bruised mace: pour in warm water enough 
to cover them about an inch ; cover the pol 
dose, and let it stew very gently for a couple 
of hours ; strain it, and then thicken it with 
floor and butter ; put in a spoonfiil of ketdi- 
up, a glass of wine, and juice of half a lemon ; 
give it a boil up, and strain into a clean 
stewpan; put in the meat, make it hot, 
and sorve up. 

06«. — If celery is not to be had, use a 
carrot instead or flavor it with celery seed. 

VKAL KNUCKLE, STEWED WITH 
RICE. As boiled knuckle of veal cold is 
not a very favorite relish wiUi the generality, 
cut off some steaks fh>m it, which you may 
drestf as in the foregoing receipt, and leave 
the kiMickle no lai^r than will bie eaten the 
day it is dressed. Break the shank bone, 
wash it clean, and put it in a large stewpan 
with two quarts of water, an onion, two 
blades of mace, and a lea-spoonful of salt: 
set it on a quick fire ; whoi it boils, take 
off all the scum. Wash and pick a quarter 
of a pound of rice ; put it into the stewpan 
with the meat, and let it stew very gently 
for about two hours: put the meat, &c. in a 
deep dish, and the rice round it. Send up 
bacon with it, parsnips, or greens, and finely 
minced parsley and butter. 

VEAL, KNUCKLE, SOUP. A knuckle 
of veal of six pounds, weight, will make a 
larse tureen of exceltent soup, and is thus 
easily prepared : cut half a pound of bacon 
into slices about half an inch thick, lay it at 
the bottom of a soup-kettle, or deep stewpan, 
and on this place the knuckle of veal, having 
first chopped the bone in two or three places ; 
furnish it with two carrots, two turnips, a 
head of celery, two large onions, with two 
or three cloves stuck in one of them, a dozen 
corns of black, and the same of Jamaica 
pepper, and a good bundle of lemon thyme, 
winter savory, and parsley. Just cover the 



meat with cold water, and eet it o^er aqai<^ 
fire till it boils; having skimmed it well, 
remote your eoi^kettle to the side of the 
fire ; let il stew very gendy till it is c|ifftB 
tender, t. e. about four hours ; then take out 
die bacon and veal, strain the soup, and set 
it by in a cool place till von waht it, when 
you must take off the fttt vrom the adHaee of 
your liquor, and decant it (kecking bodL tlie 
settlings at the bottom^ into a cleaii pan. 

If yon like a thickened soup, put three ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of the fat you have taken oflT the 
soup into a small stewpan, and mix it with 
four table-spoonfiils of flour, pour a ladlefid 
of soup to it, and mix it with the rest by de- 
grees, and boil it up till it is smooth. 
^ Cut the meat and gristle (^ the knuckle 
and the bacon into mmithfols, and pot them 
into the soup, and let them get warm. 

You may make this more savory by ad- 
ding ketchup, &c. Shin of beef mav be 
dr^sed in the same way ; see Knack«e of 
Veal stewed with Rice. 

VEAL LEG IN SURPRISE. Lard 
the veal with slips of bacon, and a little 
lemon-peel cut very thin ; make stufiiiiff the 
same' as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it 
half a pint of oysters chopped small, and 
stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew 
with just sufficient water to cover it ; let it 
stew very gently till quite tender ; then take 
it up; uiim off the &t from the liquor, 
and add some lemon-juice, some mushroom 
ketchup, the cmmbof a roll grated fine, half 
a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit 
of butter rolled in flour; let this sauce thick 
en over the fire, and serve it over tlie veal ; 
garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in 
butter, and fi'ied, and thin slices of toasted 
bacon. 

VEAL, MINCED. Cut diin slices of 
lean cold veal ; mince Uiem very finely with 
a knife, and season with pepper, salt, grated 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; put it into a sauce- 
pan, with a little white stock or vrater, a 
table<flpoonful of lemon pickle, and a little 
mushroom powder. Simmer, but do not let 
it boil; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
and a little milk or cream ; put all round 
the dish thin sippets of iMr^d cut into a 
three-cornered shape; or cover the mince 
thickly with gratra bread, seasoned with 
pepper, sak, and a little butter, and brown 
it with a salamander; or serve with pouched 
eggs laid upon the top. 

VEAL OLIVES. Cut thin tlieesc^a 
fillet, and flatted them with a rofier; seascn 
them highly with pepper, maee, sah, and 
grated lemon-peel ; pat a bit of &t intaowb 
roll, and tie thein widi a thtead. Fryttai 
of a light brown, and stew them in some 



i 



V£AL 



9S5 



V»«- 



^MnlB Mock with two dossB of iried oyitefBy 
« ghM of ^ite wine, a tnbloHspooniiil of 
famoii pidcle and flome aonall moshrooms. 
8tew tk&m nearly an hour; take off tbe 
threads befi>re Berring^. 

Beef oiiveB may be dieawd ia 4ke same 
way. 

VEAL PATTIES. Miiioe eome under- 
gone veat with a little parsley, one or two 
sage leaves, a very little onion; season with 
grated lempn-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; 
add some grated lean ham or tongue, moisten 
it with some good gravy<, heat it up, and put 
it into the patties. 

VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Chop 
about six ounces of ready-dressed lean v^, 
«nd three ounces of ham very small^ put it 
into a stewpan with an ounce of hotter roll- 
ed into floor, half a ^ill of cream ; half a 
sill of veal stock ; a little grated nutra^ and 
femon-peel, some ci^one pef^ier and salt, a 
spoonful of essence of ham and leraon^juice, 
^nd stir it over the fire sometime, mking 
care it doee not bum. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. Take two 
pounds of veal cutlets, cut them in middlii^- 
sised pieces, season with pepper and a veiy 
little salt; kkewise one of raw or dressed 
liam cut in slices, lay it alternately in the 
dish, and put some forced or sausage meat 
at the top, with some stewed button murii- 
rooms, and the yolks of three eggs boiled 
hard, and a gill of water ; then proceed as 
with runip>«teak pie. 

N. B.— The best end of a neck is die fine 
part for a pie, cut into chops, and the chine 
«x>ne taken away. 

VEAL PIE, (1) Cut a neck of veal into 
neat steaks, season them well with white 
pepper, salt, mace, and grated nutmeg mix- 
ed; pack them closely into a dish, and put 
in half a pint of white stock ; five hai*d-boi1- 
ed yolks of eggs may be added ; put puff 
paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with 
the same. Lambs' tails may be made into a 
pie, with lamb chops seasoned in the same 
manner as the above. 

VEAL PIE. (2) Gut into steaks a 
join or breast of veal, season them highly 
with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and 
. a little lemon-peei mixed ; lay th«n into 
the bottom of a dieb, and then a few slices 
of sweetbreads seasoned with the spices; 
add some oysters, forcemeat baHs, and hard- 
boiled yolks of egss, half a pint of white 
Stock, a glass of ^ite wiiM, and a table- 

rnful of lemon pickle ; put puff pastd on 
edfle of the dish, ana cover with the 
fame; bake it for orife faMfir. 



vfi^Ptt:. f8) Chop, but iMJt yery 

small, the meat of a cold lorn of veal, sesooa 
it wirti minced' parsley, pepper^ salt, grated 
lemon-peel,^ and nutni^; add rather more 
than hkK a pint of stock made wit6 tt» 
bones, thickened with a bit of butter rollied 
in iour> and seasoned with a tea^poonfol 
of lemon pickle, and a taUe-spoonfiil of 
white wine ; make a paste of the &t of the 
loin, and an equal (quantity of floor, rub it 
together, and mix with it a little coM water, 
roH it out two or diree times, line the sides 
of the dish, put in the meat, and cover it. 

VEAL PIE, SOLID. Stew in veal 
stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a 
jeHy, a piece of a knuckle of veal, with the 
gristles adhoring to it ; let it cool, and then 

EnU the meat and gristles into small bits; 
utter a pie disSi or ^ape, and lay at regular 
distances some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
and some of the white part cut into rings 
or strips; then put over some bits of the 
meat and gristle, and strew or&r it some 
pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed, and 
a little of the gravy, and then more eggs, 
with small bits of beet root, green pickles, 
and the red part of a carrot cut to fency; 
add more meat seasoning, and aH the gravy ; 
when the shape is full, put it into an oven 
for twenty minutes, and when quite cold 
tin*n it out. If rightly done, it will have a 
glazed appearance, and the variety of col- 
ors" look well by candle light. 

VEAL, POTTED. Cut slices off a leg 
of veal, and season them with pepper, poirad- 
ed mace, cloves, and salt. Lay thin slices 
of fresh butter between each layer of meat 
into a potting pan or jar; cover it closely, 
and bake it with bread. When it is cold, 
pound the meat in a marble mortar, pack it 
doseh^ into a jar, and pour clarified butter 
over It, 

VEAL, COLD, AN EXCELLENT 
RAGOUT. Either a neck, loin, or fillet of 
veal, will furnish this excellent ragout with 
a very little expense or trouble. 

Cut the veal into handsome cutlets ; put 
a piece of butter or clean dripping iiito a 
frying-pan; as soon as it is hot, flour and 
fry the veal of a light brown : take it out, 
and if you have no gravy ready, make some 
as directed under sauces, or put a pint of 
boiling water into the frying-pan, give it a 
boil up for a minute, and strain it into a 
basin while you make some thickenii^ in 
the following manner: pot about an ounce 
of butter into a stewpan ; as soon as it melc9, 
mix with it as much flour as will dry it up'; 
stir it over the fire for a few minutei^ and 
gradually add to it the graW you made in 
the fiytog-pBo; kt tbttn snooiier togiitMr 



VEAL 



236 



VEO 



£ar ten mimitei (tin tboraqgfaljr inoorporat- 
ed); aeaaon it with pei^ier, salt, a little 
mace, and a wine-gmarail of miahroom 
ketchup or wine ; strain it throuoh a tamis 
to the meat, and stew very gently till the 
meat m thoroaofaly warmed. 1/ yon have 
any ready-boiled bacon, cut it in suoes, and 
put it in to warm with the meat. 

VEAL ROLL. Bone a amall breast of 
veal, and ^)read ovor it a rich and highly- 
seasoned forcemeat. Cut four hard-boiled 
cggB the long way into four pieces, and lay 
them in rows, with green pickles between 
each row. Roll op the veal tig^tlv, and 
Eew it; then put it into a cloth, and bind it 
with ti^3e. Lay a slice of ham over it, and 
pot it into a saucqnn, together with some 
strone stock, and a little whole pepper, and 
stew It for three hours. Make a rich gra- 
vy, and boil it up with a little white wine 
and lemon-juice or lemon-pickle; pour it 
over the veal ; add some egg and forcemeat 
balls, and garnish with cut green pickles. 
Thid dish is very good when cold. 

VEAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quan- 
tities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handfol 
of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in 
a mortar, and season well with pepper and 
salt ; when wanted for use, roll and fry k, 
and serve either with fried sippets, or on 
stewed vegetables, or white coUops. 

VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a 
fillet of veal into slices an inch tliick, season 
them with salt and pepper, and gi<> them a 
few turns in a little butter, with a bay leaf. 
Lay at the bottom of a de^ saucepan a very 
thin slice of bacon, and on it one of the 
slices of veal, and continue to lay them in 
alternately, until the whole are used, then 
add a glass of water and some bay leaves; 
close the saucepan veiy tight, first putting 
a sheet of paper over the meat ; stew it on 
hot ashes for four or five hours ; take care 
to keep the fire up to the same point all the 
time. 

VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and 
some lean ham into pieces, nut them into 
a saucepan, with a quart oi water, some 
carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celeiy ; 
stew them down till nearly done, but do not 
let it color; then add a sufficient quantity 
of beef stock to cover the ingredients, and 
let it boil for an hour ; skim off all the fot, 
and strain it ; a little game stewed down 
with the above will greatly improve the fla- 
vor ; be particularly carefiil that it does not 
bum. 

VEAL SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 
Trim off the tough part, and blanch for three 



minutes in a stewpan of water, with a Uufe 
salt, three heart sweetbreads, then take then 
out, and put them bto a basin of oold wsuer 
till eool; have an egg beatupina disbyBoaie 
bread crumbs, and clarified butter, nm a 
skewer through tlie sweetbreads, and fostea 
tfaiem on the spit ; egg them all over, riiake 
some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clari- 
fied butter over, and then bread cnimfaa 
again ; put them down to roast again for a 
ouarler of an hour, then take than off the 
skewer, and serve Uiem on a dish over a little 
butter sauce, mixed withaqpoonfulof gravy, 
a souU bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice ; let it be hot, but not boiling, and 
thoroughly well mii&ed before it is served 
under the sweetbreads. 

VEGETABLES. There is nothing ia 
which the difiereoce between an el^;ant and 
an ordinary table is more seen than in the 
dressing of vegetables, more especially greens. 
They may be equally as fine at first, at ona 
place as at another; but tlieir look and 
taste are afterward very difierent, entirely 
from the careless way in which they have 
been cooked. 

They are in greatest perfection wttea ia 
greatest plenty, t. e, when in fiiU season. 

By Bcasma,! do not mean those early days, 
that luxury in the buyera, and avarice in the 
sellers, fotx:e the vegetables; but tliat time 
of the year in which by nature and common 
culture, and the mere operation of Uie suir 
and climate, they are in most plenty and 
perfection. 

As to the quality of vegetables, the middle 
size are preferred to the Tai'gest or the small- 
est; tliey are more tender, juicy, and fidl 
of flavor, just before they are c^ite fiill-growB. 
Freshness is their chief value and excellence,, 
and I should as soon think of roasting an 
aniipal alive, as of boiling a vegetable after 
it is dead. 

Tlie eye easily discovers ifthey have been 
kept too long ; they soon lose (heir beauty kt 
all respects. 

Roots, greens, salads, &c. and the varioua 
productions of the gardmi, when first gather- 
ed, are plump and firm, and have a fragrant 
fitrahness no art can give them again, wl en 
they have lost it by long keeping ; though it 
will refresh them a little to put them into 
cold sprinff water for sometime befoi-e they 
are dressed. 

To boil them in soft water will preserve 
the color best of such as are green ; if you 
have only hard water, put to it a tea-epooo- 
fiil of carbonate ofpoia»h. 

Take care to wash and cleanse them 
thoroug^y fixim dust, dirt, and insects: this 
requires great attention. Pick off all the 
outside leaves, trim them nicely, and, if opt 
quite fresh gathered and have become flaccid. 



1 



VEG 



2*7 



VEG 



it 18 abeokilely neoenary to restore their 
crispness before cookings them, or they will 
-tie tough and impleiisant': lav them in a pan 
«f cleM water, widi a hanoRil of aalt in h, 
ibr an hoar belbre yoo dress diem. 

They should idways be boiled in a sanee- 
pan by themselves, and have plenty of water ; 
if meat is boiled with them ia the same pot, 
th^ will spoil tfie look and taste of each other. 

If yoQ wish to have v^etables delicatdy 
clean, pat on your pot, make it boil, put a 
little sak in it, and skim it perfectly clean 
fcefore yoa pat Jn the greens, &c. ; which 
«houkl not bie put in tifl the water boils brisk- 
ly : the quicker they boil, the greener they 
will be. When the vegetables sink, they are 

feneraily done epou?b, if the water has been 
ept constantly boiling. Take them up im- 
anediately, or they wiU ioee dmr color and 
goodness. Drain the water from ibem 
thoroughly before you send them to table. 

This branch of cookery requires the most 
vigilant attentioa. 

If vegetaMes are a minnle or two too long 
over the fire, they lose all theiir beai^ and 
ilavor. 

If not thoroaghly boiled tender, diey are 
tremendously indigestible, and much more 
troublesome daring their residence in the 
stomach, than under-done meats. 

Once for all, take care yoar vegetafUes, 
are fresh: for as the fiiAmonger often snflers 
Ibr die sins of the cook, so the cook often 
gets undeservedly blamed instead of the 
green-grocer. 

Strong-scented \'egetable8 ^bodd be kept 
apart; leeks, or celery, laid among catni- 
dowera, &c will quicki^ spoil them. 

Saccolent vegetables are best preserved in 
a cool, shady, and damp place. 

Potatoes, turnips, carrots, and similar 
yoots, intended to be stored up, shoald never 
he cleaned from the earth adhering to diem, 
till they are to be dressed. 

They most be protected from the action 
«f the air and frost, by laying them in heaps, 
burying them in sand or eardi, &c, or cov- 
ering diem with straw or mats. 

when vegetables are quite fresh gathered, 
they will not require so much boiling, by at 
least a third of the time, as when they have 
been gathered the usual time of thoee that 
are brought to public markets. 

Vegetables are always hcet when newly 
gathered, and should be brought in from the 
garden early in the morning; thev wiU then 
liave a fragrant freshness, which they lose by 
keeping. 

Th^ must be cleaned with the greatest 
care, the oatside leaves of every description 
4>f greens removed, and they, and all other 
vegetables, more particidarly when aot re- 
cently |;athered, sliould be nid for several 
haHttM JO cold water, and veil shaken to 



throw oat die insects. A tea-spoonfid of 
salt should always be put into the water ia 
whicli they are to be boiled, and if it is hard, 
a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar, or potash, 
may be added to fx-eserve the green color of 
the vegetables. 

All vegetables shodid be boiled quickly, 
and, M^ith the exception of spinadi, in an 
open vessel, skimming them carefofly. 

Kitchen ereens should be kept in a cool 
and shady place. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
and beet root should be stored ap, without 
being cleaned fi-om the earth adhering to 
them, in layers of sand, or laid in lieaps, and 
covered with earth and straw. Parsnips and 
skirrets not being injured by frost, are gen- 
erally left in die ground, and taken up as 
wanted. Onions are stored in a warm, dry 
place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes 
strung ia bunches, and suspended from the 
roof, and, more eflectually to prevent tUea- 
growing, some people sdect the finest bulbs, 
and singe the roots with a hot iron. 

Herbs of all sorts should be gathered when 
in fiower, and on a dry day, and bein^ weU 
deaned from dust and dirt, they are tied up 
in small banches, and dried before the fire in 
a Dutch oven. Tliey may then be kept in 
paper bags labelled ; or rubbed to a powder^ 
sifted, and put into botdes. 

VEGETABLE ESSENCES. The fla- 
vor of the various sweet and savory herbs 
may be obtained by combining dieir essen- 
tiaf oils with rectined spirit of wine, in the 
proportion of one dracnm of the former to 
two ounces of the latter, or fay picking the 
leaves, and laying them for a couple of 
hoars in a warm place to dry, and then fill- 
ing a large-moathed tx)ttle with them, 'and 
pouring on them wine, brandy, proof spirit, 
or vinegar, and letting them ateep for four- 
teen days. 

VEGETABLE MARROW, Is fit for 
use when about the size of a turkey's egs^ 
After being washed clean, it is put on la 
boiling water, with a little salt, and whea 
tender, it is drained from the water, cut into 
half, and servec^ on toasted bread, over 
whidi some melted batter has been poured. 
Or, after being boiled in milk and water, 
diey may be fricasseed as Jerusalem ard- 
chcMLCs, or stewed like Cucumbers. 

VEGETABLES STEW. Pick and 
wash veiy dean as much spinadi as wiD 
make a dish; mince finely diree small on- 
ions, pick and chop two handfuls of parsley; 
put all into a saucepan, with rather more 
than half a pint of gravy, a bit of butt^ 
dusted with flour, a mde salt and peTO>er. 
Cover the pan closely, stir it now and tneo, 
and when the apinach is tender* mash il 



YEN 



238 



VEII 



it with ilioef of broiled hmm. 



moodi* 
or with 



VELOUTE. Take the cattingi and re- 
mains of any joiots of veal and fowl vou 
may have in the houee, of which take tour 
pounds, and put into a lar^ stewpan, with 
aoine carrots, ooiou, parsley, scallioos, 
three bay-leaves, three cloves, and a bdfe- 
fol of stock ; put your stewpan oo a fierce 
fire, skim it well, and take care that the 
meat does not stick; when sufficiently re- 
duced, add as much stock as will nearlv fill 
the stewpan, salt it well ; give it a boil, 
skim it, and then put it on the side of the 
fire to simmor for two hours; after which 
strain it through a tammy. Make a white 
rottx, stir into it for ten minutes a few 
champignons, then pour on it, a little at a 
time, the above liquor; let it boil up once, 
skim it, and set it again by the side of the 
fire for an hour and a half: take off all the 
fot, strain it again, and then put it by for 
use. Take care tl^t the vekmU is not in 
the least cok)red, as, the whiter it is the 
better. 

VENISON. The choice of venfaon 
should be regulated by the a^)pearanoe of 
the &t, which, when the venison is young, 
looks thick, clear, and close; as it begins 
to change first towards the haunches, run a 
knife into that part; if tainted yon will 
perceive a rank smell, and it wiu have a 
green or Uackish appearance. 

If you wish to preserve it, you may by 
carefol management and watchinff, keq> it 
for a fortnight by the following method : vrash 
it well with milk and water very clean, and 
dry it perfectly with cloths until there is not 
the least damp remaining, then dust pound- 
ed ginger over every part ; this is a good 
preventive against the fly. When to be 
dressed, waim it with a little lukevrann 
water, and diy it. Peppor should also be 
added to keep it. 

VENISON COLLOPS. These are 
'dressed in the same manner as mince coir 
lops of beef, only that, in place of the sea- 
soning of the cotlops of beef, they have a 
little pepper, salt, and some Port wine. 

VENISON, HASHED. (1) If you have 
enough of its own gravy left, it is prderable 
to any to warm it up in: if not, take some 
of the mutton gravy, or the bones and trim- 
mings of the joint (after you have cut off all 
the handsome slices you can to make the 
hash) ; pot these into some water, and stew 
them gently for an hour ; then pat some but- 
ter into a stewpan ; when melted, put to it 
as much flour as will dry up the butter, and 
stir it well together; add to it by degrees 



the gravy yon have baeo siakuMFof the &!■' 
mings, and some red currant jelly ; give it a 
boil up; skim it; strain it throui^ a sieve, 
and it is ready to receive the venwonr pot it 
in, and let it just get warm: if yoo let it 
boily it will maJte tiK meat hard* 

VENISON, HASHED. (2) Warm k 
in its ovra gravy; if there is no lat left, take 
some slices of mutton fet, set it <» the fire 
with a little Port wine and sugar, and let il 
simmer till diy ; then add it to the hash. 

VENISON, HASHED. (3) Take some 
anchovies, boil them till they are dissolved, 
then add some oysters with their liquor, a 
little milk, some red wine, and a little ketch- 
up; put in your yenison, let it virarm in this, 
but do not let it boil, anid serve it with firied 
sippets, and the sauce &c. over it. 

VENISON, MOCK. Hang up, for 
KTeral days, a large fet loin of mutton ; then 
bone i^ and take off all the kidney fat, and 
the skin fiiom the upper fiit; mix together 
two punoes of brown sugar, and one ounce 
of ground black pepper. Rub il well into 
the mutton; pour over it two or three wine^ 
glasses of P<Hrt wine ; keep it covoned widi 
the skin ; rub and turn it daily for five days. 
When to be roasted, cover it with the skin, 
and paper it the same way as venison is 
daoc. Seme it with made gravy, and the 
same sauces as for venison.. 

VENISON PASTY. (1> Cut a neck or 

breast into small steaks, rob them oyer witb 
a seasoning of sweet herbs, grated nutm^» 
pqaptf, and sak; firy than slightly in btittor; 
line the sides and edges of a dish with paS 
paste, lay in the stealu, and add half a pint 
of rich gravy made with the trimmings oi 
the venison ; add a glass of Port wine, and 
the juice of half a lemon, or tea-spoonful of 
vinegar; cover the dish with puff paste, and 
bake it nearly two hours ; some more gravy 
may be poured into the pie before serving it. 

VENISON PASTY. (2) Take a neck, 
shoulder, or breast of venison, that has not 
hung too long ; bone them, trim off all the 
skin, and cut it into pieces two inches square, 
and put them into a stewpan, with three 
gills of PcHt wine, two onions, or a few 
eschalots sliced; some pepper, sak, three 
blades of mace, about a dozen allspice, and 
enou^ veal lNt>th to cover it; put it over a 
slow fire, and let it stew till three parts done ; 
put the trimmings into another saucepan, 
cover it with water, and set it on a fire. 
Take out tlie pieces you intend for the pas^, 
and put tliem into a d^ dish with a little 
of tl^ir liquor, and set* it by to cool; tlieift 
add the remainder of the liquor to the ' 



VER 



339 



VIN 



md trimmiQgB, and boil it till the pasty u 
ready; then cover the pasty with paste, orna- 
ment the top, and bake it for two houiis in a 
fllow oven; and before it is sent to table, 
pour in a sauce made with the giavy the 
venison was stewed in, strained and skimmed 
fi-ee from fat; some pepper, salt, half a gill 
of Port, the juice of half a lemon, and a little 
floor and butter to thicken it. 

VENISON PIE OR PASTY. All 

kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties 
must be highly spiced when served hot, and 
still more highly spiced when served cold; 
but the seasoning must be regulated by judg- 
ment and taste. Take one or two breasts 
of venison, (according to the size 3'ou wish 
to make your pie or pasty), bone it thorougli- 
iy, beat it very dat, and lard it througli and 
through with iarduns, well seasoned with all 
sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chop- 
ped ; roll it up as tight as possible, and tie 
It up with strong twine. Put into a stewpan 
the bones and trimmings of the venison, with 
carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of garlic, 
thyme, bay-feaf, pepper-corns, and albpice, 
and let all stew till nearly dry ; fill it up with 
equal quantities of lieef or mutton braise, and 
water, which let boil veiy gently till done, 
tlien put in the roll of venison ; put paper on 
tlie top, cover very close, and let it stew 
gently with fire over and under. When 
sufficiently done, take it off the fire, and let 
it stand in the liquor until nearly cold : then 
prepare a plain paste of four poundsof dour to 
one pound of biitter, the same as for raised 
pie, but instead of making it stiiT, mix it as 
sod as possible; lay part of this paste as 
thick as you well can round the edge of die 
dish; cut off the twine from the venison, 
skin, and lay it in the dish, and pour some 
of tlie gravy it has stewed in ; put on the 
cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in 
the top, do it over with eggj and bake it in 
a moderate oven for throe or four hours; 
reduce the remainder of the liquor it was 
stewed in, and when die pie is baked, pour 
it in ; seryg it cold. The pasty can scarcely 
be made too diick. 

VERMICELLI, QUEEN'S. Blanch 
alxHit a quarter of a pound of vermicelli in 
boiling water, drain it, and throw it into 
some rich well-seasoned stock ; when tender, 
take it out of the soup, and put it into the 
tureen; thicken the soup with eight well- 
beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream, 
and pour it, when quite hot, upon the ver- 
micelli. 

VERMICELLI IN MILK. . Boil the 
quantity of milk yoa-inay require, and put 
into it naif a pound of vermicelli peeled, and 
a sufiksient qoaolily of sugar ; stir it frequent- 



ly tharthe vermicelli may not form a pasfis; 
half an hour will be long enough to boil it. 
A iitde almond milk may be added when 
ready for table. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (1) Boil 
a quarter of a pound of vermicelli with a 
little cinnamon, m a quart of milk ; in the 
meantime mix a qirarter of a pound of melt- 
ed butler with a pint of cream, and the yolks 
of four eggs; pour in the vermicelli when 
quite soft ; add a little flour and beef mar- 
row, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all 
up for half an hour, tie it in a floured ckitii, 
and boil it. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING. (2) Boit 

four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new 
milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two 
of cinnamon. Then add half a pint of thick 
cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks 
of four eggs, thoroughly beaten; lay the 
above in a dish and btike. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. Take as much 
good stock as you require for your tureen, 
strain, and set it on the fire, and when it 
boils, put in tlie vermicelli, and let it simmer 
for Imlf an hour by a slow fire, that the ver- 
micelli may nut burst; the soup ought not to 
be very thick. Half a pound is sufficient 
for eight or ten persons. 

VINEGAR. This is sin acid liquor, pre- 
pared by a second fermentation from various 
liquors, such as wine, cider, perry, beer, 
mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the moec 
common method of making it, in England, 
is from malt, and the process is as follows:— 
infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an 
hour and a half, tlien pour it into a cooler. 
As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, 
put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and 
leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after 
which put the liquor into barrels, in a room 
heated with stoves, so that a moderate warmth 
may be kept up for six weeks, and the fer- 
mentation continue regularly. By the end 
of that time the whoK wiU be completely 
soured, and must now be changed into otheir 
barrels ; lay a tile on the Ixing-holes to keep 
out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a 
free circulation of air, and then place them 
in the open air for four or five months, ac- 
cording as the weather is warm or otherwise ; 
during the whole of Uiis period, the fermenta- 
tion proceeds, and at the end, -the vinegar is 
nearly done. The next operation is this : the 
vinegar is poured into lai^e vessels, called 
rapetuns, to which there are felse bottoms cov- 
ered with rape, that is, therefiise of raisins^ 
or other fruit, from which wine has been 
made; fill one of these tuns entirely with 



VIN 



34a 



VIN 



ffie Tinmrj mad another about tbree-iburtla 
fen, and evary day tako a portion of the 
Uqiior out of lite fiilW barrel, and pot it into 
the odier, until the vin^ar is in a fit stale to 
be drawn off; when it must be dosety bar- 
relled. 

y ine^ may abo be made in nuich smaller 
qinntitHS for domestic pmpoees; the mate- 
rials of various kinds, with the addition of 
sugar; raisins^ currants, and ripe gpoae» 
berries, however, are the principal; some- 
times it is made fix»m brown sugar, and wa- 
ter alone. The proportions are the same as 
those necessary km- strong wine; make the 
barrel about tnree-fourths full, add a toast 
covered with yeast, put in the bun^ very 
kwsely, and place the barrel where it will 
be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, 
near the fire. The ferm«itation should be 
moderate and constant till the vinegar is 
complete ; then draw it off clear, give it a 
boil, and when qpite cold, strain and bottle 
it. 

Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mixing 
with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, 
and its tartar Tedmed to powder, and put 
into a vin^;ar or any other cask; if the 
latter, it mnsC be placed in a warm situation, 
fiiU of the steam from vinegar ; in either case 
the liquor should be stirred frequently ; the 
second fermentation will speedily commence ; 
it will become heated, and turn acid by de- 
grees, and in a riiort time the vinegar will 
be produced. 

It is commonly tapposed that wine which 
has become acid, will [Hroduoe excellent vin- 
egxc; this, however, is a mistaken idea, for 
the stronger and better the quality of the 
wine, the stronger and better will be the 
vinegar. 

The French have -several methods of mak- 
ing vine^r, which are subjoined. 

The vineoar makers of Orleans pour the 
wine, of which they intend to make their 
vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which 
are dose gratin^is of lime twigs ; these serve 
to clarify the wme, as the lees adhering to 
the twigs, leave the liquor perfectly clear. 
They then procure a number of casks, each 
containing a hundred gallons, either new or 
which have previously contained vinegar; 
these are set upright, and in the top of every 
one is bored a hole, two inches in diameter, 
these are kept constantly open : the last men- 
tioned casks are called Mother*; pour into 
all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling 
vinegar; to this, in a week's time, add 
three gallons of wine, drawn from the first 
mentioned casks ; continue to add the wine, 
at intervals of a week, until the Mothert 
are quite full ; then leave them for a fortnight, 
and at the end of which period they generally 
draw off the vinegar, taking care always to 
leave Ifae Motherw half full, at least, and 



then to fin them with wine as before. Ths 
method of proving when the vinegar is fit fur 
use, is, by pkwgm^ a stave into it; if on 
taking it out, a white tine in, perceptible on 
the end of it, the vin^ar is ouite ready. 
The place where the caMs are kept should 
be very airy, and in the winter time, by 
means of stoves the temperature should bie 
raised to eighteen decrees of Reaumur. 

Paris vinegar varies &xxa the above, and 
Ae process is very simple. A large quantity 
of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and 
laid in tuljs, which are placed one upon an- 
other to form a kind of press ; by means of 
a screw, every drop of wine is gradually 
sqiweied from the fees; this operation cannot 
be performed in less time than a week. The 
wine thus extracted is put into casks ; \n 
the headings a hole is made, as above, whtdi 
boles «re hCt constantly open; in summer 
time the casks so filled are placed in die sun, 
and, generally speaking, the vine^ is fit 
for use in a fortnight. In the wmter, the 
fermentation will last double the time, and 
must be assisted by artificial wanmh. It 
sometimes happens that the liquor beats to 
so great a d^;ree that the hand cannot be 
boroe in it; m this case, tlie progress of 
the fermentation most be checkea by adding 
more wine, until it proceeds more regularly. 
When the vineg^ is made, put it into casks, 
which have the beech twigs at the bottom, 
as above mentioned; let it I'emain a fi>rt- 
night, by which time it will be sufficiently 
fermented to draw off into the casks for 
keeping it. 

Anothw very simple method is also prac- 
ti:ed in France; a few quarts are di'awn 
fixtm a barrel of excellent vmegar, and an 
equal quantity of very clear white wine ia 
put into the oarrel, close the bung lightly, 
and keep it in a pbce where the heat ia 
moderate and regular. In a month's time 
draw off the same qinmtity as above, an^ 
pour in an equal portion of white wine. A 
oarrel of good vinegar will thus afford a 
constant supply for a length of time wiUiout 
leaving the slightest deposit. 

A (»udi which has not contained vinegar 
before, should have a quart of boiling hot 
vinegar poured ihto it, shaken tifl cold, and 
allowed to stand for some hours. 

VINEGAR, BASIL. Sweet basil is io 
fell perfection about the middle of August. 
Fill a widennouthed bottle with the fieab 
green leaves of basil (these give much finer 
and more flavor than the dried,) and cover 
them with vinegar, or wine, and let them 
steep for -ten days: if you wish a very strong 
^essence, strain the liquor, put it on eome 
fiiesh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days 
more. 

06«.— This is a very agreeable additioB 



i 



Vllf 



241 



VIN 



to MmcM, Mops, and to ihk nixture uemdly 
made fot salads. 

It M a secret the* makeni of nock turtie 
may thank as for tellinr; a tabte-Apoonfiil 
put in when Uw soup is finished will impre^- 
nate a tureea of soap with the basil and acid 
fhivors, at very small cost, when fresh basil 
and lemons are extravagantly dear. 

The flavor of the other sweet and saToi y 
herbs, celery, &c. may be procured, and pre- 
serwMl in die same manner by ii^fusiDg them 
in wirile or vinegar. 

VINEGAR, AMERICAN. Boil six 
galbns of water, and add, while it is hot, 
(avsr quarts of molasses; put it into a tub to 
«ool; wlien milk warm, stir in a pint of 
fresh yeast ; put it into the cask, and set it 
by the fire for twenty-fuur hours; then ^ pot 
it in the sun, with a bottle in the bung-^ole. 
Bottle it three months after^vards. 

VINEGAR, BURNET OR CUCUM- 
BER. 'Fliis is made in precisely die same 
manner as dii^ected altove. The flavor of 
buniet resembles cucumber so exactly, that 
when infused in vinegar, the nicest palate 
would pronounce it to be cucumber. This 
is a very favorite relish with cold meat, sal- 
ads, &c. 

VINEGAR, CAMP. Cayenne pepper, 
one drachm, avoirdu|iois weight. Soy, two 
table^poonfuls. Walnut ketchup, four ditto. 
Six anchovies chopped. A siaail clove of 
garlic, min<;ed fine. Steep all for a month 
in a pint of the best vinegar, frequently shak- 
ing tlie bottle: strain through a tamis, and 
keep ii in small bottles, corked as tightly as 
possible. 

VINEGAR, CHILI. This is commonly 
made with the foreign bird pepper ; but you 
will obtsiia a much finer flavor from infiising 
fifty fresh red English Chilies (cut in half, or 
pounded) in a pint of the liest vinegar for a 
fortnight, or a quarter of an ounce of cayenne 
pep()er. Many people cannot eat fish with- 
out the addition of an acid and cayenne 
pepper: to such palates this will be an 
agreeable relish 

VINEGAR, CRESS. Dry and pound 
half an ounce of cress-seed (such as is sown 
in the garden with mustard,) potir upon it a 
quart of the best vinegar, let it . sleep ten 
days, shaking it up every day. This is very 
strongly flavored with cress; and for salads 
and cold meats, &c. ft is a great &vorite 
with many. 

Celery vinegar is made in the same' 
manner. ' 

VINEGAR, ELDER FLOWER AND 

21 ' 



TARRAGON. Fill a quart bottle widi 
the ilowerB of eldo*, or the teaves of tarragon, 
when it is in flower; pour vin^ar upon 
them, and let them infiise for a fortnight; 
then strain it through a flannel bag, ana put 
it into small bottles. By the same means, 
vinegar may be flavored with the fresh gath- 
ered leaves of any swe^ hob, 

VINEGAR, GARLIC. CXit small one 
ounce and a half of garlic, bruise one nutmeg 
and three cloves, steep them in a quart of 
vinegar for a week, shaking it daily ; then 
strain and bottle it. Shallot vinegar h otade 
in the same manner. 

VINEGAR, GOOSEBERRY. (3adier 
yellow gooseberries wlien quite ripe, ciiish 
and mash them well in a tub with a lai^ 
wooden pestle; to every two gallons of 
gooseberries, after being maslied, put two of 
water; mix them well together; let it work 
for three ^tveeks, stirring the mass two or 
three times each day ; then strain die liquor 
through a hair sieve, and put to every gallon 
one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
treacle, and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast; 
let it work for three or four days in the same 
tub, which has been well washed; then run 
it into iron-hooped casks. Let it stand 
twelve months, and bottle it for use. Thia 
is a very strong vinegar. 

VINEGAR, HONEY. Half a pound 
of honey must be put to a pint of wa- 
ter, and the honey well dissolved. This 
mixture is then exposed to Uie gi^eatest heat 
of the sun, without closing wholly the bung- 
hole of the cask, which must be merely cover- 
ed with coarse linen, to prevent the admission 
of insects. ' In alx>ut six weeks, the liquor 
becomes acid, and changes to a very strong 
vinegar, and of excellent quality. 

VINEGAR, HORSERADISH. Horse- 
radish is in highest perfection about Novem- 
ber. Pour a quart of best vinegar on three 
ounces of scraped horseradish, an ounce of 
minced eschalot, and one drachm of cay- 
enne ; let it stand a week, and you will have 
an excellent relish for cold beef, salads, &c* 
costing scarcely any thing. A portion of 
black pepper and mustard, oeleiy or cress- 
seed, may be added to the above. 

VINEGAR, RASPBERRY. The best 
way to make this, is to pour three pints of 
the best white^wioe vinegar on a pintmd a 
half of fresli-gathered red raspberries in a 
stone jar, or china bowl (neither glaied 
earthenware, nor any metallic vessel, must 
be used ; X the next day strain the liquor over 
a like quantity of fresh raspberries; and tht 
day following do the same. Then drain off 



VOL 



342 



WAF 



tbe liquor without pramig, and pa« it 
fhroogfa a jelly-bag (previocnly wetted with 
pbin viiieffar) into a stone jar, with a pound 
of pounded lump sugar to each pint. When 
tbe sugar is dissolved, stir it up, cover down 
the jar, and set it ia a saucepan of water, 
jand keep boiling for an hour, taking oflf the 
■ofin; add to each pint a gbss of brandy, 
and bottle it: mixed in about eight parts of 
water, it is a very refreshing and delightful 
■nmmer drink. An excellent cooling bever- 
age to assuage thirst in ardent fevers, colds, 
and inflammatory complaints, &c. and is 
•greeaUe to most palates. 

VINEGAR FOR SALADS. Take of 
tarragon, eavory, chives, esdialots, three 
ounces each ; a handful of the tope of mint 
and balm, ail dry and pounded ; put into a 
wide-mouthed bottle, with a gallni of best 
vinegar; cork it close, set it in the sun, and 
in a fortnipiht strain off, and squeeze the 
herbs ; let it stand a day to settle, and thai 
itrain it throi^ a filtering bag. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (1) Cut some ooM 
tuike^ or veal into small thin slices, season 
it with dried lemon-peel grated, pepper, 
pounded mace, and salt; add one anchovy, 
some garlic and onion pounded, also a little 
good gravy, a table-spoonfiil of lemon pickle, 
one of white wine, and an ounce of butter 
rolled in flour ; then make it quite hot, but 
do not allow it to boil, and serve it in the 
prepared vol-au-voit. Tbe gravy may be 
made with the bones, or a little cream, and 
the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted 
for the cream. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (2) In opening the 
oysters, separate them from the liquor, which 
must be strained ; take off the beardH, and 
add to them the liquor, U^ther with some 
white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, 
two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon- 
peel, pepper, and salt ; simmer them for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, and a little before putting 
them into tlie vol-au-vent, pick out the lemon- 
peel, add a tablcHspoonful of white wine, and 
tliree of good cream, and make it quite hot. 
To make oyster patties, when they are to be 
bearded, cut them into three or four bits, 
and prepare them in tlie same manner. 

VOL-AU-VENT. (8) Roll off tart paste, 
till about the eighth of an inch tliick: then, 
with a tin cutter made for that purpose 
(about the size of the bottom of tlie (ush you 
intend sending to table,) cut out the shape, 
and lay it on a bakinff-plate with paper; 
rub it over wiUi yolk of egg; roll out good 
puff paste an inch thick, stamp it with the 
same cutter, and lay it on toe tart paste; 
than take a cutter two sizes smaller and 



press it hi the centre nearly tfarowhtlw pair 
paste; rub the top with yolk of ^^, and 
oake it in a quick oven wbout twoity minutes, 
of a light brown color: when done, take out 
the paste inside the centre mark, preserving 
the top, put it on a dish in a warm place, 
amf wboi wanted, fill it with a white frica* 
see of chicken, rabbit, ragout of sweetbread, 
or any other enirte you ynah. 

VOLDRON. Mek eleven ounoee of freah 
butter in a brass pan, and when quite hot, 
add the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, 
and eig^t welt-beaten eggs; stir constantly 
fi>r six or eiriit minutes, and put it into a 
didi^ the foUowing day, mix with it a wine 
glass of orange-mwer water; of citrcm, 
orange, and lemon-peel, cut fine, half a 
pound ; butter a pudding dii^, and lay into 
the bottom a sheet of white paper buttered, 
then put in the voldron, and bake it for 
twenty minutes; turn it out, ornament it 
with cut citron and orange-peel, and serve 
it in a silver or glass dish. 



W. 

WAFERS. Take a pint of good cream, 
half a pound of sifled fbur, half a pound of 
powder sugar, and two drachms of orange- 
fkiwer. water. Beat the cream with the 
flour, a little at a time, until both are mixed 
perfectly smooth and free from lumiis, then 
add the other articles; and as much more 
cream as will make the paste nearly as tliin 
as milk ; make the iron hot, dip a featlier in 
some melted butter, and rub the iron over 
with it; put on die iron about a i^xmnful 
and a half of tlie paste, press them a little 
gently, and place die iron on a stove; open 
the iron a little frequently, to see if it be 
done; when one side is baked, turn tlie iron, 
and do die other. The wal^ eliould only 
be lightly rolored. Take them fit>m the 
mould carefully with a knifc. 

WAFERS, GERMAN. Take seven- 
teen ounces of sifled flour, and half a pint of 
good yeast, which make into a paste, with 
as much warm milk as will make it run frcnn 
the spoon fifeely, without being too clcsar; 
then put it into a warm place. When it has 
risen well, add to it the yolks of fourteen 
eggs well beaten, the whites whipped to a 
snow, and the grated rind of two lemons. i 
The whole being well mixed, pour over it 
seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but I 
not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden 
spoon, and put the preparation again into a 
warm place to rise a second time; when it 
has risen sufficiently, and your pan quite hot, 
rub the latter with butter, fill it with the 



I 



WAL 



343 



WAL 



fwAB, «et it over a brisk iift, and % your 
wafers; make both sides equally brown; 
when done, sprinkle them with powder sugar 
f and cinnamon, if you like), and serve them 
foot. Be carefiil in taking out the paste to 
fill the pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the 
spoon into the preparation, when not using 
it; the uppo* part of tiie paste should be 
taken off very gently, and the spoon laid 
across the top of the vessel; if these precau- 
tions be not attended to, the good appear- 
ance of the wafers will be destroyed. 

WAFERS, ITALIAN. Take eight 
eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a 
pound of flour, six ounces of cream, the same 
of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the 
rind of a lemon grated. Beat the e^s with 
the sugar and flour first ; then add the cream, 
milk, and other raatei-ials, by d^rees; mix 
them well, and take care there are not the 
slightest lumps. Make the wafms as di- 
rected. 

WALNUTS. Make a brine of salt and 
water, in the proportion of a quarter of a 
pound of salt to a quart of water; put the 
walnuts into this to soak for a wedc; or if 
you wish to sofien them so that they may 
be soon ready for eating, run a larding 
pin through them in half a dozen places — 
this will alk>w the pickle to penetrate, and 
they will be much softer, and of better fla- 
▼or, and ready much sooner than if not por- 
forated: put them into a stewpan with such 
brine, and ^ive them a gentle simmer; put 
them on a sieve to drain; then lay them on 
a fish plate, and let them stand in the air tiH 
they turn black— this may take a couple of 
days ; put them into glass, or unglazed stone 
jars; fill these about three parts with the 
walnuts, tead fill them up wi^ the folk)wing 
pickte. 

To each quart of the strongest vinegar put 
two ounces of black pepper, one of ginger, 
flame of eschalots, same of salt, half an ounce 
4>f allspice, and half a drachm of cayenne. 
Put these into a stone jar; cover it with a 
bladder, wetted with pickle, tie over that 
some k»ther, and set the jar on a trivet fay 
the side of the fire for three days, shaking it 
tip three times a day, and then pour it while 
bot to the walnuts, and cover than down with 
bladder wetted with the pickle, leather, &c. 

WALNUTS AND BUTTERNUTS. 

Gather them fer pickling when the head of 
a pin will pierce them easily ; run a large 
needle through them here and there, or score 
than on one side with a knife; lay them 
mto a brine of salt-and-water for twelve 
days, changing the brine twice in that time; 
strain, and put them into a jar, and sprinkle 
a little salt over them. Boil feur quarts of 



vinegar for a hundred walnuts, allowing to 
each quart one ounce of whole pepper, and 
one of ginger, half an ounce each of sliced 
nutmeg and whole allspice, a table-spoonful 
of mustard seed, and one of scraped horse- 
radish, one head of garlic, or a sooall onion; 
pour it boiling hot over the nuts, and put a 
plate on the jar; when cold, tie it closely 
down. After the nuts are used, the liquor 
may be boiled, strained, and bottled, to use 
as a pickle. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (1) Thorough- 
ly well bruise one hundred and twenty young 
walnuts; put to them three quarters of a 
pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vin- 
egar; stir them evoy day fer a fortnight ; 
then strain and squf^eze the liquor fi*om them 
through a cloth, and set it aside ; put to the 
husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand 
all night; then strain and squeeze them as 
before, adding the liquor which is obtained 
from them to what was put aside the preced- 
ing day, and add to it one ounce and a 
quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, 
half an ounce of nutmegs brui^sd, or sliced, 
half an ounce of finger, and five drachms of 
mace, and boil it for half an hour; then 
strain it off from the spices, and bottle it for 
use. 

WALNUT KETCHUP. (2) Take six 
half-sieves of green walnut-shells, put them 
into a tub, mix them up well with commoQ 
salt, (from two to tliree pounds,) let them 
stand for six days, frequently beating and 
mashing them; by this time the shells be- 
come soft and pulpy; then by banking it up 
on one side of the tub, and at the same time 
l^ raising the tob on diat side, the liquor 
will drain clear off to the other; then take 
chat liquor out: the mashing and bankin^- 
up may be repeated as often as liquor la 
found. The quanti^ will be about six 
quarts. When done, let it be simmered in 
an iron boiler as long as any scum arises; 
then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a 
quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces (^ 
long pepper, two ounces of cloves, with the 
above ingredients ; let it slowly boil for half 
an hour; when bottled, let an equal quantity 
of the spice go into each bottle; wh^ cork- 
ed, let the botdes be filled quite up: cork 
them tight, seal them over, and put them 
into a cool and dry place for one year before 
they are used. 

WALNUT KETCHUP, FOR FISH 
SAUCE. Take a quart of walnut pickle, 
add to it a quaiter of a pound of anchovies 
and thi-ee-quarters of a pint of red Port, and 
let it boil till reduced to one-thu^; then 
strain it, and when cold, put it into smaH 
bottles, and keep them dosely corked. 



WAL 



344 



WHI 



WAJJXtJT PICKLE. Potany qmoti- 
t]r of the outside ebetts or xreen riiKfe of 
ripe walnuts into a tub in which there is a 
tap-hole; sprinkle them with water, raise 
the Ud> OD ooe side, that it may stand in a 
sloping direction, pl^oe another vessel under 
it to receive the juice as it dmjpB from the 
tap-hole; this it will soon begin to do; and» 
when a sufficient quantity has been obtained, 
to ooe ealiott of this black liquor add. two 
lai^ table-spooniiils of salt, one large onton, 
a stick of norseradish, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, two bay leaves, a quarter of an ounce 
of black pepper, the same of allspice and of 
bruised ginger. Boil it slowly for twenty 
minutes ; strain it,, and, when cold, stir it 
and bottle it for use, putting the spice into 
the bottles. 

WALNUl'S, TO PICKLE. Gather 
^ nuts before the inside shell is hard, which 
may be known by trying them with a pin ; 
lay them into salt and water nine days, 
changing tlie liquor every three days; then 
take them out, and dry tbea in the air on a 
sieve or mat; tliey eliould not touch each 
ether, and they should be turned,, that every 
side may become black alike; tlicn put 
them into a jar. Wlien half the nuts are 
ill, put in an onion, with about thirty cloves 
stuck into it, and add the rest of the nuts. 
To one hundi'ed walnuts allow half a pint 
of mustard 8eed, a quarter of an ounce of 
mace, half an ounce of peppercorns, and 
sixty bayjeaves; boil all the spice in some 
good common vinegar, and pour it boilii^ 
upon tlie nuts, observing that they are en- 
tirely covered; stop the mouth of the jar 
with a cloth, and when cold, cover it with 
bladder or leather. In about six weeks 
they will be fit for use^ when theyr aliould be 
examined, and if they have absorbed the 
vinegar so much as to leave any of the nuts 
dry, more should be added, but it need not 
be boiled. 

WATER SOUCHY. Make a stock 
with three or four flounders, boiled in three 
quarts of water, two onions, and a bunch of 
parsley, till they are soft enough to pulp 
through a sieve with the liquor they were 
boiled in ; then season it with pepper, salt^ 
and some parsley chopped, and boil in it a 
fisw fkmnoers, with the brown skin taken 
eflr„ some nicely cleaned perch or tench. 
Serve in a tureen, and with slices of bread 
and butter to eat with it. 

WELSH RABBIT. Pare the crust off 
a slice of bread, toast it nicely, divide it in 
two, butter it, and lay upon each half a thin 
■lice of cheese which has been toasted in a 
Putch oven ; if, when put upon the toast, it 
18 not sufficieot^ browned,, bold a salaipan- 



S^rw il 



der, or kiot ikovel, ov«r iIm tap. 
very hot, 

WHEY. (1> Hake a pint of milk boil; 

pot to it a ^[lass or two of white wioe ; pot it 

ondiefire till it just boils again; theoaetitoo 

one side titl the curd has settlipd ; poor off 

, the clear whey, and sweetea it as you like. 

Cider is often substituted for wioe, or 
half the quantity of vinegar tliat we have 
orctered wioe. When imn is no fire in 
the sick room, this laay b$ put hot into a 
bottle, and laid between the bed and mat- 
tress; it wilt keep vrarm sevoral boors. 

WHEY. (2) Put a very small portioo 
of rennet into a quart of miik, and let it 
stand by the side of the fire witil turned ; 
then serve it in a dish, with siigar and a 
little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, or 
strain the liquor carefully from the emd, 
and ser^e quite clear. 

WHEY, WHITE WINE. Boil a 
pint of milk, and when it riees ia the pan, 
pour in one gtas^ of sherry and one <^ cur* 
rant wine; let it again boil up, take it off 
the fire, and, when it has stood a few mia- 
utes, remove the catd, poar off the clear 
whey, and sweeten it. 

WHIM WHAM. Sweeten a quart of 
cream, and mix with it a tea-cupfiil of whit? 
wine, and the gi'ated peel of a lemon ; wbtsk 
it to a froth, which ^^n vepoa the back of a 
sieve, and put part into a deep gtess didi; 
cut some Naples biscuit as thin as poesiUe, 
and put a layer lightly over the fi^oth, and 
one of red currant jellv,. then a layer of tbe 
froth, and one of the biscuit mod jwy ; finisb 
with the froth, and pour the remainder of the 
cream into the dish, and garnish with citron 
and candied orange-peel cut into straws. 

WHITE B1E:ET, leaves. Pick ana 
wash them clean, put them on in b(»lin^ 
water with a little salt, cover the saaoepan, 
and boil them longer than tqpioech ; drain off 
the water, and beat them as ^inach, with a 
bit of butter and a Kttle salt 

. WHITINGS. In choosing whitings, b» 
carefol that the skin has a •alverv appear-^ 
ance, that the body is firm, and tbe'fiaa. 
stiff; tliese are sure proo6 of its fresh- 



WHITINGS, ENGUSH WAY. Pm 
into a saucepan two spoonfiib of oil, hatf a 
lemon sliced (the pipe and rind tak«i off), 
salt, and pepper, two shkBiea of white wine, 
the same of water, and let them boil neid^ 
a quarter of an hour; thai put the whitia^^ 
properly cleaned, cook, thaa 'm the abQEW» 



WH I 



^5 



WOO 



Hunch a clove of piariic, and beat it with 
the back of a knife, pat it with parsley, 
iBhaUotfl, and two ghflses of champagne, into 
a stewpan ; let it boil five minutes, then add 
aome batter, rolled in floor, salt, and pepper; 
atir it over the fire till smooth, iheo serve. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (1) Take as many 
whitinj^ as you may require; cleanse, scale, 
and wipe them dry ; then ran them throueh 
the eyes writh a skewer, soak them weU m 
milk ; flour, and fry them of a aioe cobr. 
Serve them on a napkin. 

WHITINGS, FRIED. (2) Skin them, 
preserve the liver, and fasten their tails to 
their mouths; dip ihem in e^, then in 
bread-crumbs, and fiy them in hot lard, or 
split them, and fry them like fillets cf soles. 
A three^quart stewpan, half full of fiit, is the 
beat utensil to firy whitings. They will be 
done enoup[b in about five minutes; but it 
will sometimes require a quarter of an hour, 
to drain the fat from them and dry them (if 
the fat you put them into was not hot enooch), 
turning them now and then wtdi a wh- 
dice. 

WHITE FISH AND SAUCE. Make 
a rich gravy with a bit of veal, the heads and 
fins of four or five haddocks, three or four 
onions, some parsley, a little cayenne, black 
pepper and salt, tlie jnice of a lemon, half 
the peel, a table-epoonfiil of ketchup, half a 
pint of white wine, and two quarts of water; 
simmer them for an hoar, strain, and put to 
ft the meat of a lobster or crab minced, ami 
forcemeat balls;' thicken it with half a pint 
«f cream, the yolks of three egga beaten, and 
a pint of butter kneaded iu flow. Have 
naidy boiled thi«e haddocks skinned and 
witliout their heads, poor the sauce over 
them in a deep dish. Make the forcemeat 
balls of a small boiled haddock findy minc- 
ed, grated bread crumbs, batter, pepper, 
salt, grated nutm^, and parsley; bind them 
with the whites of two eg« beaten, and fry 
them in fresh lard of a light brown. 

WHITE POT. Beat up the yolks of 
eight, and the whites of four egga, with two 
quarts of new milk, a little rose wator, a 
nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar; cut a small roll into very thin 
slices, lay them in a ' dish, and pour the 
milk, &c. over them; pot a bit of butter on 
the top, and set it in the oven; it wiU take 
half an hour baking. 

WHITE ROUX, or WhUe TMekening 
for Saueet and Made Dithes, Melt 
ffradoally, over a slow lire, a good piece of 
batter, and dredge in a sufficiency of flour to 
make it like a thi.i paste; keep stirring it 



for a qnurter of an boor, and then pot it ois 
a small jar to be kept Ibr ose. 

WHITE SAUCE. See Beekaml. 

WIDGEONS AND TEAL, Are dressed 
exactly as the wiM dock; only that less tima 
is reonisito for a widgeon, and stiU less for • 
a teal. 

WILD DUCKS. For roasting a wild 
duck, you must have a clear, brisk fire, and 
a hot spit; it must be browned upon the out- 
side, without being sodden i^rithin. To have 
it well firothed and full of gravy is the nicety. 
Prepare the iue bv stirrug and raking 'it 
just before the bird b laid down, and fifteen 
or twenty minutes wiU do it in the fashion- 
able wav; bat if you like it a little mora 
done, allow it a few minutes k>nger; if it is 
too much, it will lose its flavtM*. 

WINE 'MADEIRA) SAUCE. Take a N 
tea-spoonfnl of floor, and a preserved green 
Iraaon, dut into dice, mix them with a glass 
of Madeira wine, and a little eoneomme, 
add an ounce of butter, some salt and nut- 
meg; set these on a very hot stove to boil 
for a quarter of an hour ; then take it off, 
put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it 
again on the fire, stirring constantly till the 
iMitter is melted. 

WINTER HOTCH-POTCH. Ttike 
the best end of a neck or loin of mutton; 
cat it into neat chops ; cut four carrots, and 
as many turnips into slices; put on four 
quarts of water, with half the carrots and 
turnips, and a whole one of each, with a 
pound of dried green peas, which must be 
put to soak the night before; let it boil two 
hours, then take out the whole carrot and 
turnip; bruise-^and return them; pat in the 
meat, and the rest of the carrot And turnip, 
some pepper and salt, and boil slowly three- 
quartere of an hour; a short time before 
serving, add an oaion cut small and a bead 
ofcek»y. 

WOODCOCKS. (1) The sreatest 
possible care should be taken, in picking of 
these Urds, to handle them as Uttle as pos* 
siUe, mi account of the skin being so par- 
ticularly tender, that when broken it spoils 
the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut 
off the pinions at the first joint, press the 
legs close to the side, throagfa which, and 
tM body, pierce the beak of the bird; then 
cross the net, and lay a slice of baoon orer 
the breast. Woodoodcs and snipes may ba 
dressed according to the same nuiss. 

WOODCOCKS. (2) Take a pcmd 
of lean beef« cut it into pieci«i» and |Mt It 



woo 



f«6 



T«A 



iM^a SMMiiMb vith iwo qpvrti of water, 
an onion itiick wkh clovMytwo blados of 
maoe, and some whole pepoer, boil all these 
togeite till rednoed tt> balC; then Mrain ie 
on into another saucepan: draw the wood- 
aockfl, and lay the ttail ia a plate; pot the 
woodoockn into the ipavy, and let then boil 
in ii for twdire minutes; while they are 
boiling, mince the trail and liver very iraiall; 
put than into a small saucepan, with a lit- 
fb maoe; add lour or five spoiwiulB of the 
gravy the woodcocks are boiled in; then 
take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine 
mto a diab placed before the firo, and put to 
the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint 
of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in flour, 
set it on the fire, and shake it round tHl the 
butier is aielted; then put in the biead- 
crumbs, and shake the saucepan round ; lay 
the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce 
over them, and serve. 

WOODCX)CKS. (8) Woodoodu shouki 
not be drawn, as the trail is by the bvers 
of " haut gout" considered a " bonne 
bouekei" truss their legs cloee to the body, 
and run ao iron skewer through each thigh, 
close to the body, and tie them on a suudl 
bird spit; put them, to roast at a clear fire; 
cut as many slices of bread as you have 
birds, toast or fry tliem a delicate brown, 
and lay them in the dripping-pan under the 
birds to catch the trail; Mste them with 
butter, and froth them with flour ; lay the 
toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the 
toast; pour some good beef gravy into the 
dish, and send some up in a boat, twenty or 
thirty minutes %ill roast them. Garnish 
with slices of lemop. Some epicures tike 
tliis bird very mucli under-done, and direct 
that a woodcock should be just introduced 
to the cook, for her to show it the fire, and 
then send it up to taUe. 

WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put 

a brace of woodcocks into a fryiqgpan, 
with some butto:, shred shallots, grated 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; set the pan on a 
fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for 
seven or eight mmutes ; then add the juice 
of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, 
and some raspings ; and leave them on the 
fire till the sauce has boiled up once ; then 
serve altogether. 

WOODCOCK SALMIS. Cut up the 
woodcock on the table, and put the pieces 
<w a dish, which place on a stand, with a 
lamp under it; add p<^per,salt, shred shal- 
lotA, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice 
of three lemons, and a bit of butter ; strew 
raspings over, and boil slowly for ten min- 
uiM, stirring occneioDally.. tJae spiriiii of 
yvim for your lamp' 



WOODCOCK SAUCE, 
bonai and Uvera of roasted woodcock^ wad 
put them into a stewpaa, with two qioo»- 
fiils of GulUsy and two aftooafuls of red pert; 
reduce it to the oooustfwwe of a saiirPj and 
thtm strain it ; when strained, add pqiper, 
salt, and the juice of two oranges. 



Y. 



YEAST. Beer yeast, which is die best 
for bread, diould be strained through a hair 
sieve, and two or three quarts of cold spring 
water poured over it; when it has stood ibr 
twen^4bur hours the virater should be poured 
ofl^ the yeast will then be found at ihe bottom 
of the vessel, quite thick. To preserve that 
which may be left over the baking, it should 
be put into a boule, corked tightfy, and kept 
ia a cool place. In cold weather it will 
continue good for a foi'tnight, but fresh yeaat 
is always preferal>le. When it does not ap- 
pear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar 
may be mixad with it, in the proportion of a 
tea-epoooful to lialf a pint. 

YEAST, BAKER'S. Boil two oaooee 
of hops in four quarts of water one hour, 
adding mure water as it decreases, carefiilly 
stirring it all the time, and taking care that 
it do not boil over ; strain the li(|uor, and 
mix well with it two pounds of malt; cover 
it, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it 
be milk warm, then stir in half a pint of 
^[ood yeast; wlien mixed well together, let 
It work for ten hours, and then stram it 
through a hair sieve. 

YEA$T,BRAN. Boil for ten minutes, 
in two quarts of water, one pint of bran, and 
a small handful of good hops; strain it 
through a sieve, and when milk wai'm, add 
three or four table-spoonfuls of beer yeast, 
and two of brown sugar or treacle: put it 
into a wooden stoup or jug ; cover it, and 
place it before the fire to ferment. It may 
be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool 
place. 

YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a veir 
light dough widi yeast, the same as for bread, 
but with milk instead of water, add salt; 
set it by the fire, covei^ed up in a pan, for 
lialf an hour, or an hour, to rise ; in the mean 
iiii:e, set on the fire a large saucepan of hot 
water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the 
dou^ into small baUs, and put them into the 
boiling water; keep them continually boiling 
for ten minutes, then take them out, and serve 
them immediately, with wine sauce over 
diem. To ascertain whether they are wffi- 



YEA 



247 



ZES 



Cieotly boiled, stick a fotk into one, and if it 
eoroes out clean, it is done CToogh. Some 
think the best manner of eating them is by 
dividing them from the top by two forks, as 
they become heavy bv their own steam, and 
eat them immefliate^ with meat, or sugar 
and butter, or salt. 

YELX,OW GLAZE. Make a glaze, 
with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in 
powder, the white of an em, to which add 
oy d^rees as much lemon-joice as may be 
necessary ; when sufficiently beaten up, (and 
the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), 
add to It a small quantity of infusion of saf- 
fron, strained, and the yellow rind of one or 
two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scrap- 
ed ofi* and pounded; take care, however, 
not to put too much of the latter, lest the 
glaze should be bitter. 

YEAST, TO MAKE. Boil for half an 
hour two quarts of water, thickened with 
about three spoonfuls of fine flour, and 
sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown 
sugar; when almost cold, put it into a jug, 
adding four spoonfuls of fresh feast ; siiake 
it weU together, let it stand uncovered near 
the fire for a day, to ferment. Tliere will be 



a thin hqfxar on the top, pour this off; Anfcy 
the remainder, and cork it up for tve. To 
make a half peck loaf you should use a quar- 
ter of a pint of the above. 

YEAST, POTATO. Boil some good 
mealv potatoes ; jpeel and wei^ them ; while 
hot, bruise them finely, and mix them quickly 
wiUi boiling wala*, allowing one quart to 
each pound ; nib it through a hair sieve, 
then add honey or brown sugar in the pro- 
portion of one ounce to each quait of water; 
boil it to the consistency of batter, and when 
nearly cold, add a large table^poonfiil of 
good yeast lo every quart of water ; cover it 
with a clotli to rise, and the following day it 
will be ready for use; keep a bottle of it, 
which may fa« used instead of beer yeast for 
the next making, first pouring ofi* tlie thin 
liquid that is on the top. It must be made 
witli fresh beer yeast every two or three 
months. Double the quantity of this, as of 
beer yeast, is requii^ed to make bread 
light. 

ZESTS. Zest (a tei-m of art, used by 
confectioners) is the peel of oranges, lemons, 
or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in smaU 
slips or zests, as thin as possible. 



J 



CONFECTIONERY. 



ALM 

AUfONDS, BLOWN. Scald a few al- 
moDdB, and pound them to about half aa fine 
as for biscuits, beat them with lemoD-jnioe, 
wJiitetf of eggs and powder-sugar; dit>p 
them 00 paper, about the sixe of almonds, 
and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. 

ALMONDS BLOWN ROYAL. 
Choose four ounces of small thick ahnonds, 
and put tliem into an oven until they are 
slightly colored. Whilst they are cooling, 
mix four ounces of sugar with an ejgg; 
beat tliera up for ten minutes ^ add a little 
carmine to make it a fine rose color; dip 
the almonds into this: take them out; dia* 
engage theui from the egg, so that they may 
be only just covered with it; lay them two 
and two on a sheet of strong paper tbreoo 
quarters of an inch between each pair; 
they mav also be placed in threes to form 
the trefoil, on which may be added a fourth. 
Bake them in a cool oven. 

ALMOND BUTTER. To a ouarter 
of a pound of blanched almonds, well beat, 
put some new milk and rose water ; take 
a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of 
twelve eggs beat well with a littJe of the 
cream ; then add the rest of the cream ; put 
a quarter of a pint of new milk to the al- 
monds, and stram them into the cream till 
there is no strei^th left ; strain all togeth- 
er into a skillet, set it over a charcoal fire, 
and stir it till it comes to a tender curd; 
put it into a strainer, and bans it up till the 
whey is drained out; then take six ounces 
of fine sifted sugar and a little rose water, 
and beat it all into butter with a spoon. 

ALMOND BITTER CAKE. Pooad 
three ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of 
almonds, put them into an earthen pan with 
six ounces of powder sugar; the same of 
sifted fiour, two whole eggih and six yolks, 
a spoonfol of brandy and a grain or two of 
salt; work these up together for five min- 
utes and then add six ounces of fresh but- 
ter which is sligbtlv warmed, work that in 
for four raioutes k>nger. Then, having 
whipped the whites of two eggs, mix them 
into the paste. Butter a well-tinned copper 



ALM 

mouM or paper case, ten inches long, five 
wide, and two hi^h ; pour in your prepara- 
tion, and bake it m a cool oven. While bak- 
ing, whip the whites of two e^, and ma 
two ounces of powder sugar with them, and 
cut four ounces of sweet almonds into slips 
(shortwise ; ) mix them also with two ounces 
of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of 
egg whipped. In threeHiuarters of an hour 
take out the cake, and if it be firm and well 
colored, cover it with the whipped egg and 
sugar, and on tliat strew the almonds equal- 
ly, pressing them in, that all may be cokirad 
alike. This opei-ation must be performed as 
quick as posrfble, and when done, turn the 
cake out and cut it in four slips (length- 
wise,) and then divide each into six parts 
lozenge-shaped; this will give you twenty- 
four cakes, which must be an'anged in stars 
on your dish, six to every star. ^^^ 
may also be cut in two lengths instead of 
four, and these divided into fifteen small 
pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, form- 
ed into crescents. The ingredients, and the 
proper quantities for this cake are as follows: 
— SMC ounces of flour, tlie same of powder 
sugar, three ounces of sweet and bitter al- 
monds, six yolks, and two whole eggs, six 
ounces of butter, two of si;^ar mixed with 
the whites of two ^gs whipped, four ounces 
of cut almonds added to the sugar and egpi, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 

ALMOND CANDY. Bkmch a poffind 
of tlie best almonds, and cut them very 
thin, lengt^iways, put them into a pound of 
clarified sugar to crisp them, stir Uiem over 
the fire tin boiled to MujgU; then take 
th«n off and keep stirring till the sugar is 
dry like sand: then sift it, so that the al- 
monds may be left, divide them into four 
parts lo coUnt them differently, one part 
red, the second yellow, the third green, aad 
the fourth left white as tAey come fi'om the 
sugar* To cokir die first, soak a small 
quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and 
lay your almonds in it; do the same with a 
little tinctore of saffron for the yellow, and 
spinach juice for the |;reen. Place the col- 
ored almomls on a sieve in a stove; wheo 
dry, mix all together^ adding the whit» 



ALM 



352 



ALM 



ones. Boil nearly u much sugar as your 
moold will require to wuffit^ pul it in, and 
wben the aluuHids are quite dry» garnish the 
nirfiice of the eiigar with tKem; do not, 
however, lay them too tliick, and just press 
them down with a fork ; put the mould in- 
to a moderate oven for five hours, then drain 
it well, and in another two hours it may be 
taken from the modd. 

ALMONDS CINNAMON SPANISH. 

Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of 
butter tied in a piece of ciotli, rub the pan 
and brown them. Have ready some clari- 
fied sugar, with powdered cinnamon stirred 
in it, put in the almonds, and when well cov- 
ered with the sugar and cinnamon, lay them 
separately on tins, and diy in a slow oven. 

ALMONDS TO CJOLOR. Almonds 
R08K COLORED. Blanch and cut sweet 
almonds in small pieces, put them on a bak- 
ing plate, and pour on them a little of any 
vegetable liquia, of an infusion of oodiineal, 
or carmine; then rub them in your hands, 
to mix them virell with the color; when all 
are so done, diy them in a stove or in the 
oven. 

ALMONDS VIOLET. Are done in the 
same way, the coloring ingredients are 
cochineal, and a little indi^ dissolved in 
water, pot but a small quantity of the latter 
at a time as it is very poweriul. ' 

ALMONDS GREEN. The same pro- 
ceeding: the color is made with two hand- 
fiils of fresh spinach, well washed, drained, 
and then pounded ; when very fine, press it 
through'a naf^in; let the juice drop on a 
dish, which place on a hot stove ; as soon as 
it bwins to boil, take it off, stirring it con- 
stantfy, till the green curdjes, then poor it 
through a htNrsenair sieve, and when well 
drained strain itthroqgh a silk sieve or tam- 
my; the juice thus obtained, will ffive the 
almonds (which must be put in a few at a 
time) a clear and even grew color. 

ALMONDS BLUE. Dissolve a little in- 
digo in water, strain it through a cloth and 
use it as above mentioned. 

ALMONDS ORANGE COLORED. 
Mix a little liquid red, and a little infiision 
of saffron together, and proceed with the al- 
monds as usual. 

ALMONDS LEMON COLORED. 
Infiise a small quantity of saffiron in neariy 
boiling water for a few miooles; strain and 
fi^w the above direction. 

ALMONDS CHOCOLATE COLOR- 



ED. Are dyed with chocolate diasobed iii 
water and strained. 

The almonds nuiy be cut in slips, dice. 
Stc. according to fiincv. Observe that thr 
color of your almoooB should be li^t and 
delicate; when done, place them, either 
separately or mixed tog^her, in papei 



ALMOND COUPEAUX. Bhinch and 
pound half a pound of sweet almonds with 
the whites of three eggs into a very fine 
paste, add to it six ounces of powdered su- 
gar and the rind of a lemon grated; when 
thoroughly mixed tocether, pour over it 
about KNir spoonfiib of oraiwe-flower water: 
stir up the paste (which on^t to be rather 
thin,) once more, and then hy it with a 
spoon on a plate of bri^t copper, in an 
oval form, aooot three or four inches in 
leneth. The pUfee bein^ quite fiill, take it 
up t^ both hands, and strike it steadily upon 
a table, so that the paste may be extended, 
but not much; then bake them until they be- 
come of a deep yellow. Take them from 
the copper with a knife, and whilst hot pot 
them on a woodm roller, about the thidc- 
ness of an arm, and press them with vour 
hand, that they may acquire the form of the 
wood, and when cool place in a box, and 
keep them dry. These coupeanx are Yery 
brittle. 

ALMONDS CRISPED.. Rub a pound 
of the best sweet almonds in a cloth to take 
off all the dust, and then pot them, with 
a pound of sugar, half a glass erf* water and 
a little carmine, into a preserving pan; put 
them on the fire, and let them remain; when 
the ahnonds crackle take them off and work 
them about until the sugar is detached from 
the almonds, then take axvay part of the su- 
gar, put the almonds on the fire again, and 
stir tnem lightly with a spatula, (be carefiii 
that the fire be not too quick ; ) and wben 
they have taken the sugar, add that which 
had been removed, and continue to bum 
them till they have imbibed that also. Place 
a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your al- 
monds on It, separate those which adhere 
together, and let them cool. 

ALMOND DRAG'EES. Take of the 
best and largest almonds what quantity yoa 
please, and having washed them in cold wa- 
ter, let them dram and dry <» a sieve for 
twen^-four hours. The next day weicfa 
them, and Am* each pound of almonds take 
three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and 
boil it to the degree p€tU kue; then let it 
cool a little. Have your tossing pan nmdy ; 
on your right hand, a diafing duh to keep 
your pan containing the sirap constantly 
warm; and on your left hand, a table witli 



ALM 



253 



ALM 



a mixtare of powder and flour (of each half 
a pound to a pound of almonds). AH being 
ready, put the almonds into the pan, and 
poor over them one or two large spoonfuls' 
of the sirup, and shake them so that all the 
almonds may be wetted with sirup; then 
take a handnil or two of the flour and pow- 
der, and strew it over the wet almonds; 
shake them again, that the flour may adhere 
all round tlie almonds. After this, swing 
the pan backwards and forwards, l^ which 
means the almonds roll about in every direc- 
tion ; continue this motion until they become 
dry ; then moisten and powder tliem as be- 
fore; swing the pan ag^in, and when dry, 
repeat the process a third, fourth, and fifth 
time, or more, until they are of a proper 
size ; then pour over them the sirup for the 
last time, without the powder, and, bavins 
swung and dried them, take them out and 
place them on sieves in a warm place, that 
tiiey may dry perfectly before you put them 
by for use. 

Observe, that after a few layers of the 
sinip, the superabundant parts of that and 
the powdo* form a white crust at the bottom 
of the pan ; as sOon as it acquires any de- 

Siee of thickness, the pan must be taken 
Dm the fire, the almonds carefully removed 
with an iron spatula, and the crust broken 
off"; when the pan has been well waslied and 
dried, replace the almonds and proceed with 
your work. This must be strictly attended 
to, not only with this, but in making all 
kinds of sweetmeats. Tiie sugar thus cfear- 
ed away may be made useful for many pur- 
poses. 

Common Alnoond Drasees are made in 
the same manner; the only difference con- 
sists in having ingredients of an inferior 
quality. 

ALMONDS (MILK OF) FANCHON- 
NETTES. Blanch and pound eight ounces 
of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and 
when the paste is very fine, add to it three 
glasses of nearly boiling milk, tlien press 
this mixture through a napkin to draw out 
the milk. Put into a stewpan four yolks 
of eggs, three ounces of powder-sugar, one 
of sifted flour, and a grain of salt, mix. tliem 
well together, and add by degrees the al- 
mond milk, put this on a moderate fire, stir- 
ring it constantly. Line about thirty tartlet 
moulds with thin puff paste, and put on them 
a little of the above prepaf^tion, and bake 
tliem in a moderate oven. When properly 
done, take them out and let them cool. Mix 
with the whites of three hard ^^s, four 
ounces of powder*sugar, stir it well to soften 
the egg, and make it work easily ; put some 
of the remainder of your preparation on 
each of the fanchonnehe$y and cover them 
lightly with the egg; put some white of egg 



on the blade of a large knife, and witn a 
small one as quick as passible take ofi* sev- 
en meringue» about the size of a filbert, 
and arrange them in the form of a crown on 
eacli fanekonnettej when you have done 
five or six, cover them with powder-sugar 
very equally, and then bake them in a cool 
oven. When of a reddish brown they are 
done and may be served. 

ALMOND CHEESE, BITTER. Peel, 
wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and 
one ounce of bitter almonds, pound them to 
a paste, moistening with two spoonfub of 
waters Put them mto an earthen pan, with 
two glasses of nearly boiling milk, in which 
eight ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; 
let this stand an hour, then strain it through 
a fine sieve, and put to it six drachms of 
isinglass lukewarm ; place the whole in ice 
and when ii begins to set, add some whipped 
cream; pour it into a mould which hasneen 
kept in ice, put it in ice again for half an 
hour, and then take thefromage from the 
mould. 

ALMOND FLUMMERY. Boil diree 
ounces of haitshorn in two quarts of spring 
water ; let it simmer six or seven hours till 
half the water is consumed ; strain it dirough 
a sieve ; lieat half a pound of almonds very 
fine, with a quantity of orange-flower water; 
mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugal' 
with it ; strain it with the rest of the jelly, 
stirruig it till it is a little more titan blood 
yi'arm ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick 
in almonds cut small. 

ALMOND GARLANDS. Take half 
a pound of march-pane paste, the whites of 
two or three eggs, some |x)wdered cinnamon 
and a little flour, knead tliem into a paste, 
and roll them into the form of sausages with 
your hand on the table, first strewing tlie 
table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; 
BO tliat they may adhere to the sausages, 
which ought to be al)out the size of yutir 
finger ; then form tliem into rings or gar- 
lands of what size you please, fixing the ends 
togetlier with water : place them on paper, 
and bake them in a quick oven until tliey are 
of a clear brown color. 

ALMOND LITTLE CAKE, BITTER. 
Pound six drachms of bitter almonds, strain 
them through a sieve, and mix them in an 
earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an 
egg, and six ounces of sugar, stir these with 
a silver spoon for a few minutes. Take 
three-quarters of a pound of puff paste, roll 
it to the thickness of a quarter of an incli, 
amd cut out of it thiity oval cakes two inches 
and a half long by two and a quarter wide 
pointed at the ends ; put on each a quarter 



▲ LM 



254 



ALM 



of a ■poonfiil of the almond gjbxe, and with 
the bwde of a knife spread it equally over 
the mi'faoe for about the eishth of au inch, 
and tlien let them stand tor half an hour 
before you put them into the oven, which 
roust Ije moderate. If you bake them iminoo 
diately aAer ^ttin({ on tlie ^laze, it wrinkles 
and shrivels up, which spoils tiieir appear- 
ance, as tliey m^ht to be quite smooth and 
even ; the cakes also require considerable 
care in the baking ; they sliould be slightly 
colored on tlie top and the lower part red- 
dish. 

ALMOND GENOESE, BITTER. 
Blanch two ounces four drachms of sweet, 
and two ounces and a half of bittei* almonds, 
pound them to a paste and tlien put them 
into the folbwing preparation : blanch and 
pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and 
when perfectly sinoolli, mix tiiem in an eartli- 
en pan with six ounces of flour, the same o( 
powder*«ugar, six yolks and two whole eggs, 
a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. 
Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six 
ounces of butter slightly warmed but not 
melted ; work the butter well into the pcete 
for four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, 
or paper cases, about nine or ten inches 
square, pour in your preparation, smooth it 
with tlie blade of a knife and then put them 
to bake in. a moderate oven, first strewing 
on them four ounces of sweet almonds'minced 
and mixed with two ounces of powder-sugar, 
and a little white .of egg. When done, cut 
tliem into all possible forms, then i-eplaco 
tliem in the oven to dry ;, wlien brittle, take 
tliem out, let diem cool, and decorate tliem 
to yom* ^ncy. 

ALMOND, GRILLAGE. Blanch 
half a pound of almonds, cut them into fi>ur 
or five slips, lengthways, pralinez tliem 
with tliree-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand 
them wlien tliey be^in to crackle ; tlien put 
tliem on the fire again till they are well mixed 
together and form a mass, which put on 
wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it flat, strew 
over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or while 
nonpareiU, and then cut it in pieces. 

ALMOND KNOTS. Take two pounds 
of almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; 
beat them in a m(Ntur, to a very fine paste, 
with rose water, be careful to keep them from 
oiling. Take a pound of double-refined su- 
gar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out 
WMue to make up the knots, put the rest in 
a pan upon tlie fire, till it is scalding hot, at 
the same time liave tlie almonds scalding 
hot in another pan ; then mix diem together 
with the whites of three eggs beaten to froth, 
and let it stand until it is cold ; tlien roll it 
with some of the sugar left out for that 



ptu^iofle, and lay timn in pbtters of paper* 
They will not rpil into shape, therefore lay 
them as well aa may be, and bake them in 
a slow oven. 

ALMOND MILK. Take six oonoea of 
sweet almonds, and a pint of raift» fbor 
drachms of orange-6ower water, and five 
ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound the 
almonds to a very smooth paste, moiflC^fiing 
them occasionally with a few drope of milk ; 
when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk 
and mix them well, and boil it till rednoed 
to half, then let it boil- up once more ; let 
it cool and serve. 

ALMOND MIRLITONS. Blanch an 
ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter al- 
monds, and dry them in an oven ; when cold, 
pound < them wiUi a little white of egg to 
pitivent their oiling ; then put them into an 
earthen pan with two ounces of bitter maca- 
roons, five ounces of powder-sugar, four whole 
egg8, and a grain of salt ; when these are 
well mixed together, add two ounces of butter, 
lukewarm. Make a proper quantity of puff 
paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into thirty 
round pieces about two inches and diree- 
quarters in diameter, and put each of tlieee 
into a tartfet mould buttered ; put the niirli- 
tons on this, and when all aie equally full, 
cover them with powder- sugar sifted over 
them through a tammy ; as soon as that b 
dissolved strew more (but not such fine) pow- 
der sugar over, and bake them in a moderate 
oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

ALMOND MONCEAUX. Take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into tliin 
sli|)s (lengthways) and roast them on an iron 
until they are of a deep yellow color, inclin- 
ing to brown ; beat up the whites of six or 
eight eggn with a spoon in an earthen pan. 
Pour over the almonds a pound of sugar finely 
powdered, four ounces of candied orange peel, 
the same of candied lemon-peel, also cut into 
thin slips, half a ^loonful of |iowdered cinna- 
mon, and six or eight cloves pounded ; mix 
tliese ingredients well in the pan, and place 
it on paper in little heaps of a pyramidal 
form, and bake them in a wdl-heaied oven. 

ALMOND PASTE. Blanch two pounds 
of sweet almonds, and soak tliem in cold 
water for twelve hours, then dry them in a 
napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a 
very fine paste witli a little wat«r and lemon- 
juice, pass them througli a sieve, and tlien 
pound the remainder (half a pound at a time.) 
When all are done, mix tliem with a pound 
of sifted sugar ; place diem over a gentle fire, 
stin-ing it continually, untiLthe paste will 
flow from the spoon ; then pour it into a 
mortar, and when it becomes lukewarm. 



M 



^LM 



^55 



ALM 



ppniid it again with an ounce of siiin*dra{|ron 
previously dissolved in a glass of water and 
strained^ the juice of two lemons, and a 
pound of sifled sugar. As soon as your paste 
18 of the proper consistence, take it out and 
lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar ; 
divide your paste into three parts, and color 
each part according to your ian<^. The 
coloring or dyes are made of toe same 
mat^riab as are used for almonds. 

ALMOND PASTE to keep six, or 
even twelve months, Blanch and pound 
a pound of sweet almonds, moistened occa* 
sioually with water, to prevent tlieir oiling ; 
when well beaten, add lialf a pound of fine 
powdered sugar, and mix the whole into a 
paste to use whe^ you have occasion. When 
wanted, mix a piece about the size of an egg 
with three giJIs of water, and strain it through 
a napkin. 



ALMOND PRALINES, (dried, pre- 
served or burnt,) A pound of the best 
almonds must be washed in cold water ; 
when thoroughly dry, put tlieni into a pre- 
sei'ving pan with a pound of sugar and a pint 
and a half of water, keep them on the fire, 
stin'ing them continually, until they crackle 
and fiy about, and tlie sugar begins to color, 
stir them about gently to gather tlie sugar, 
and leave them in the pan to dry about two 
hours, in a stove or any moderate heat. 

ALMONDS, RED CRISPED. Pre- 
pare them as above until they have taken 
the sugar and are ready to be taken^ofi^ the 
fire, put tlie almonds upon a sieve with a 
dish under, take the sugar that drops, and 
put it into the same pan, adding a little 
fresh ; refine it till it comes to the twelfth 
degree au catte, then take cochineal, color 
eumcicut to tinge the almonds, and put them 
therein ; give them a few turns over the fire 
in tlie sugar, mid finish as at first. 

ALMOND SWEETMEATS (YEL^ 
LOW.) Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, 
wash them in cold water, and when quite dry, 
pound diem with a sufficient quantity of yolks 
of eggs, into a fine but rather stiff paste : 
add to them a pound of powdered sugar and 
the rinds of two lemons giatcd ; knead tlie 
paste well with your hands, first sprinkling 
the table with sugar. Form tiie paste into 
-what figures you please, such as fleur-de-lis, 
trefoil, &c. each being about tlie size and 
weight of a macaroon. Place them on white 
paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- 
derately hot stove. If they are of a deep 
yellow, they are sufficiently done. — These 
sweetmeats may be still further ornamented 
in the following manner: — Boil some sugar 
in orange-flower water to the degree called 



grands plm^s,9xid as-sooa as the twoet' 
meats are taken from the stove or oven, wash 
them over with a light brush dipped ia th« 
sirup ; this will give them a delicious per- 
fume, and tliey may then be called d la 
glace. When cold, take tbem fitxn the 
paper and put them into glasses for the table. 

ALMONDS, ROCK OF AUCAN- 
TE, SPANISH. Clarify honey, and 
stir into it as many blanched almonds as 
you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This 
makes a pretty crystalioe ornament for the 
dessert ; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. 

ALMOND WAFERS. Take a pound 
of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, 
add a pound of powder-sugar, a pinch of 
oiange-fiowers pralin6e, put tliem into a 
basin, and moisten them with a sufficient 
quantity of whites of eggs to enable you to 
spread the paste on wafer paper with the 
blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be 
fubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil) ; lay 
the preparation on as thin as possible ; chop 
some sweet almonds very small, mix tliem 
with sugar, and strew them over tlie wafers 
and put them into a hot oven ; when about 
half baked, take them out and cut tbem in 
squares ; replace them a minute in the oven, 
laike them out again, and prc^ tliem on a 
stick to give them tlie proper form ; as soon 
as diey are cold, put tliem on a sieve. Just 
1)efore they are served tliey sliould be slightly 
warmed. 

ALMOND COMPOTE, GREEN. 
Take the peel very carefully from your al- 
monds, and put tliem with water on the fire 
till tliey are tender ; tlien take them off and 
add a little more water ; when nearly cold 
put them on the fiie again, but do not let 
them boil ; as soon as you find tlie head of 
a pin will penetrate easily, they are tlien 
sufficiently done, and may be dirown into 
cold water ; and when the fruit ia quite cold, 
drain them. In the meantime put some 
clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boilg 
put in the almonds ; boil them in the sugar 
about twenty times, tlicn remove them, and 
let the almonds stand to take the sugar : in 
about two hours' time put them on tlie fire 
a^ain, and boil tliem up a dozen times ; after 
vwliich, take them off, skim, and let tbem 
cool. When quite cool drain and put the 
fruit in a compotier. If the sugar should 
not be sufficiently done, boil as much more 
as you may thinK necessary ; sc|ueeze in the 
juice of an orange, boil it once again, and 
when nearly cold strain it througn a cloth 
into the compotier over the almonds. 

ALMOND NONPAREILS, GREEN. 

Dmin some groeu almonds that have been 



ANG 



256 



ANO 



praMnred in brandy ; dip thorn one by one 
in ■offar prepared au CiUii, and roll them 
in white, or any other colored nonpareils, 
and diy them in a stove, or gentle oven. 

ALMOND (GREEN) PRESERVED. 
Put some water into a saucepan, with two 
handAils of bran, and when it has boiled tip 
twice, throw in some green almonds ; kit 
them boil up once, then take them out with 
a skimmer, and rub them well in your hands 
to take off the down ; as you do this, throw 
tliem into cold wrater ; then boil them in 
water till, on pricking them, a pin easily 
enters and they shriiuc : then clarify scmie 
sugar, a pound to a pound of fruit ; boil up 
the sirup four or five successive days, mom- 
ing and evening, without tlie fruit, which 
you leave to drain upon a sieve ; lastly, put 
the fruit into a pan, and when ratlier more 
than lukewarm, pour the sirup over it ; when 
tliey look very green they are BU&;iently 
done. 

ANDAYE BRANDY. An ounce of 
bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised corian- 
der seed, two ounces of powdered Florence 
iris, the zestes of two oranges ; put them 
With three quarts of distilled brandy into tlie 
alembic bain-marie ; dissolve two pounds 
and a lialf of sugar in two pints and a half 
of clear river water, add them to the distilled 
liqueur, pass the whole tlirough a strainer, 
and put mto bottles. 

ANGELICA CAKES. Take four oun- 
ces of angelica powder, and two pounds of 
fine sugar. Beat up the white of an egg 
with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- 
sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the sufftir 
in a skillet and skim it ; when it^iias boiled 
a little, throw in the angelica, iind boil the 
sugar to petit ctuai, then take it from the 
fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, 
and stir it qnickly until the sugar rises, then 
stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till 
it rises a second time ; it may now be pour- 
ed into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and 
sprinkled witli sifted sugar. 

ANGELICA (ESSENCE of) JELLY. 
Having washed and well dried two ounces of 
angelica-roots ; cut them in pieces and throw 
them into boiling sirup, (three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised 
angelica seeds ; cover the mixture close, and 
when cold, add to it half a glass of kirsch' 
toasser, and pass it througli a tammy ; then 
filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of 
isinglass : stir it lightly with a silver spoon ; 

E>und ten pounds of ice, and put it into a 
rge sieve or pan, place your mould in the 
middle of the ice, taking care that it touches 
the ice in every part ; pour the jelly into the 



roonld, cover it with a sauoqpaii lid» pat ice 
on that, and let it stand for three houra; after 
that time have ready a saucepan huge enoi^fa 
to take in the mould easily ; fill it with water 
so warm that you can scarcely bear your hand 
in it ; plunge the moakl in so as to allow the 
water to puss over the whole, but as quickly 
as possible, and then turn the jdljr into your 
disii for table. This last operation shoald 
be performed with great agility. Ofaeenre, 
in making these kind of jellies, that no tinncMl 
or pewter vessels or spoons should be used, 
as they impart a violet tinge to your jellies, 
which ought to be of the color oif the ingre- 
dients employed, as for instance the alwTe 
should be a^clear light green color. 

ANGELICA LIQUEUR. Wash, 
scrape, and cut in small pieces, twelve oances 
of firesh, or half the quanti^ of Bohemian 
angelica roots, and infuse them Cmt a week 
in six pints of brandy and one of water, with 
a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamon, 
and twelve cloves ; at tlie end of that time 
distil it, then dissolve three pouncb of sugar 
in three pints of water ; mix it with the 
liqueur, strain it through a jelly-bag, or fil- 
ter it through paper. Observe, that the best 
brandy for liqueurs is that which is made 
at Moutpeiier, as* it yields more in distilla- 
tion than the Cogniac. Take notice also 
that the first drops which fall from the alem- 
bic after it is placed on tlie stove, must not 
be mixed with tiie liqueur. A glass should, 
tiierefore, be placed under the mouth of the 
alembic to receive tliem, and when about a 
quarter of it is filled you may remoTe it, and 
place your bottles or matrass. The phl^m, 
as these droppings are called, are good ibr 
nothing. 

ANGELICA PASTE. Take young and 
pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender, 
drain and press all die water out ; beat them 
in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a 
sieve. Next day dry it over the fire, aiKl to 
every pound of paste put a pound of powder- 
sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, 
stirring it till thoroughly mixed, over a gentle 
fire. Drop it on plates, dost a little sugar 
over them, and di-y them in a stove. 

ANGELICA PRESERVED. Take die 
stalks of angelica when of a good size, but 
before they have run to seed ; clear off the 
leaves, and as vou cut the stalks into {uroper 
lengths throw them into water, and boil them 
till the stalks are soft ; take them from the 
fire, and put tliem into cold water ; take off 
the skin, and again put them into cold water; 
then dn\in and put them into an earthen pan, 
and pour over a sufficient quantity of clarifi«l 
sngar to float the angelica. In twenty-four 
hours boil the sugar ten or a dozen times* 



ANI 



267 



ANI 



and when hikewann poor it orer the staDu. 
Proceed in the eame way ibr four Bocceeding 
days ; after which, drain the stalkB, and in 
the meanwhile boU the sugar (adding more, 
if neoesBary) to die degree grande perli ; 
pit the angelica to this, cover it close, and 
let it tx>il five or six times. Take it from 
the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. 

ANGEUCA PRESERVED DRY. 
Proceed as for the liquid, until you have 
poured the sc^r €ni grand per^ over the 
angelica ; leave it for a day in the sugar, 
then drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, 
in a stove. 

ANGELICA RATAFIA. Take six 
pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three 
pounds of sugar, two ounces of fresh gadiered 
angelica-roots, the same quantity of angelica 
eeed ; mace and clove, a drachm of each. 
Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in 
slices, and put them, with the seeds and 
■pices braised, into the brandy, to infuse for 
twenty days ; dien strain it, and having ad- 
ded to it the sugar dissolved in rivor water, 
filter and bottle your ratafia. 

ANGEUCA RATAFIA. Strip Uie an- 
flelica stalks of their leaves, and cut them 
into small pieces, which put into the best 
brandy and water, in the proportion of four 
litres of brandy and two of water to one 
pound of ai^lica, and four pounds of sugar 
to the same quantity ; add cloves and cinna- 
mon ; let it stand six weeks, then filter and 
bottle it. 

ANGELICA WATER. Wash eight 
handfols of angelica leaves, cut, and lay tbem 
on a table to dry. When qnite dry, put 
thon in an earthen pot widi a gallon of strong 
wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
'stir it twice in that time, then put it into a 
warm still or alembic ; draw off into bottles, 
covered with paper pricked in holes, and let 
tiiem stand thus two or three davs. Sweeten 
it, and when it is settled, bottke, and stop it 
close. 

ANISB:ED,0IL0F. is made like ani- 
seed water, the only difierence is, tliat an 
additional pound of tfugar is necessary to 
make the simp. 

ANISE PETIT PAINS. Put two 
glasses of water and two ounces of finesh but- 
ter into a stewpan, and when the liquid boils 
take it from the fire, and mix with it six 
ounces of sifted floor ; amalgamate it thor- 
oughly, so that it may be quite free from 
lumps ; then dry it over the fire. Take it 
out of the saucepan, and add to it two eggs, 
and two ounces of povi der«igar; mix them 



well in, and then put in two more eggfi and 
the xette of a lemon minced fine : when 
these are also well incorporated, add another 
egg or two, if the paste (which should be ra- 
ther firm,) will bear them. Sprinkle your 
paste slab with flour, cut die paste into 
pieces, each tlie size of a walnut; roll these 
widi as little flour as possible, to about three 
incites k>ng, and as you roll them place diem 
on a baking-tin, two indies apart; dorex 
and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till 
diey are firm. Tlien cut some anise into 
fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to 
eau6y and the moment it reaches that de- ' 
gree set it by the side of die fire that die 
sugar may not kise its whiteness; dip die 
top and one side of each petit pmn m the 
sugar as quick as possible, and as you take 
them out, strew the anise over tliem liglitly. 
Red anise is also used for diese petit 
paint. 

ANISEED RATAFIA. To make a 
quart of this liqueur, boil a pound of si^r 
with a demisetier of water, until the sugar 
is quite clear; thai heat another demisetier 
of water, and put in it three ounces of anise ; 
take it from die fire before it boils ; let it 
stand a quarter c^an hour, and then poor it 
with three pints of brandy into die sugar; 
mix all well together, and then pour into a 
vessel, which must be ck)eed tight, and 
placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, 
and then bottle it. 

ANISEED WATER. Cliooee eight 
ounces of new sreen anise, sift it well to 
free it firom die dust, and thien infuse in six 
pints of brandy, with the zestes of three 
lemons, and liaff an ounce of cinnamon ; in 
a week's time distil it over a moderate fire, 
put a pint of water into the alembic ; take 
care to collect the phl^m before you draw 
off the aniseed virater. J)i88olve three pounds 
of sugar in three pints of water. As the 
anise contains an acid salt, which renders 
this liqueur milky, the following proceeding 
is necessary: — Reserve a pint of the water 
from that in which you dissolved the sugar, 
and mix with the white of three or four 
eggs, well whipped, and while the sirup is 
hot put to it this e^-water and the aniseed, 
water; stir it over the fire until the whole 
is hot without boiling; then put it into a 
glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the 
next day bottle and filter it. 

ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 
two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound 
of aniseed, two ounces of ccnriander, and the 
same of fennel seeds- Bruise, and put them, 
with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alem- 
bic bain-marie. Then dissolve thirteen 
pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water» 



APP 



«6 



IkPR 



which mult Jbe put to yov hqaeur whao dif- 
tilled. Filtar and bottle it. 

APPLE FRITTERS. Turn twdve 
•mall applea, cut them into halves, and boil 
them in airnp, then leave them to cool. 
When they aro cold, make an extremely 
thin cniBt with Moehe paste. Make a 
fritter for each half apple, then fry them and 
finish the same as Fritters d Im l)aMtpkine, 

Pears cut into qaaners are made in the 
same manner as tlie above. 

APPLES AND ALMONDS Little 
Cakes. Proceed the same as above till 
the marmalade is spread over the wider- 
crust, then cover it with ahaonds cut in fil- 
lets, press them in li^ly; mask them with 
powwr-sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 
As soon as cold, cut your gMemtx accord- 
ing to your fiincy, either round, dalong, lo- 
lenge, or cres(»nt-sbaped. 

APPLE MARMALADE. Little 
Ca K E 9k Make a marmalade of tweaty-fiwr 
apples in the usual way, with a quarter of a 
pound of sinar, and a quarter of a pot of 
apricots, ana the axaie of a lemon, slnred 
fine. Make your paste, and proceed as di- 
rected for Petits Gateaux glaci^s of apricots. 
Sprinkle them (when marked) with powder- 
su^r. Bake them in a moderate oven and 
finish them. 

APPLE PETIT GATEAUX WITH 
Pistachios. Make an underHsust of the 
same size and thickness asdir«:ted (xpetiU 
gAteaux glac49 of apricots, and cover it 
with apple marmalade ; when baked, mash 
the apples with a little apricot marmalade, 
and strew over a quarto* of a pound of pis- 
tachio nuts cut in small pieces, and then put 
it in the oven acain for a few minutes to dry 
the apricots. When cold cut them into the 
usual forms. 

APPLES AND PISTACHIOS. Pre- 
pare and toss up a dozen apples for this 
gateau with apples and raisins, with the ad- 
dition of two ounces of sugai*, and instead 
of the xeste of an orange, grate that of a 
lemon, and put three ounces of pistachio nuts 
blanched, in the place of the raisins. Pro- 
ceed in the same manner as directed in that 
recipe, strewing on the dome of the gdteau 
pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six 
pieces; and when the crown is put round 
tlie band, place a pistachio nut in the mid- 
dle of each meringue, bake it of a light 
color in a slow oven, and serve it hot. 

APPLE MERINGUEES. Put some 
tipple marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid: 



irBip tiw ithilH of two eigga to tt nnitfi, ' 
with them two apoonfiib of powtler-aagar 
and a little lemoo'peel cbopped extremely 
small ; deoorate your tstiokM with this prep- 
aratioo, |^aae theai win sogar, md color 
them m theovco. 

APPLE MERINGUE. Lay a UmbmU 

paste in a tart pan, e^^ and prick it afl ovier, 
and.bakeit; lay init apur^of applea^and 
finish with white of egg* to for k b Tavque; 
serve it hot* 

APPLES PUREE. Ped and ccone a 
dozen or more good baking ap|des; aet tbeaa 
over the fire to stew with some clarified 

Xand a ttaaU bit of lemon-peel; when 
, Air theai well with a wooden apooa, 
and put in a apooefid c^ apricot jam; stir it 
at times till the jam is wauOtd and the applea 
thicken, thea rub the whefe throogk a 
laauny. 

APPLES, SOUTFLE PARISIEIY. 
Make a marmalade of thrte doatti anrfei, 
half a pound of poWdet'HW(gar> the peel ef a 
lemon, and a glasfe of water; dryilasmodi 
as you possibfy can, for on that the good ap- 
pearance of the tM^M parMm efatefiy 
depends; then pat it mto a laitgs atewfiaB. 
Wtiip the whites of fifteen egga to « straoig 
firoth, widi a pound of powder-sagar. Mik 
a quarter <^ this at ftrst, with the apple aoaat- 
malade^ then stir the whotd together, aad 
pour it into a enMstade prepared as aBaaL 
(See Souffle.) Bake it tor an hour ia a 
moderate oven. Serve it as eooa as poaat- . 
ble after taking it finom the oven. Glaae it 
with pewder-«ugar. 

APPLE SIRUP. Take mt applea, 
pare and cut Uiem into eBsaU pieoes; put 
them into a nufksut with three-quarters of 
a pound of sugar and two glaeses of wtater; 
stop it cfeee uid place it in a bain marie, 
and leave it about two bourse letting the 
water be boiling; move the mmirmM fii«- 
quendy without taking it out of the wator; 
diis must be done carefiilly lest it should 
break on being exposed to the cold air; 
when done put out the ftis, and let the mat- 
roM cool before faa take it oat. When the 
simp is nearly cold, flavor it with lemoa- 
juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon 
or cinnauKm, orange-fiower water, or what- 
ever eke you amy choose. If any dregs 
should arise, let it etaad for toso% ho«n 
longer, and then gently pour the sin^i into 
bottles. Great care miat be taken to pre- 
vent its being muddy. 

APRICOTS BOTTLED. Press tts 
quantity of ripe apricots you may reqain . 



APR 



259 



APR 



throqgh a Iior8e4iair sieve ; put the pulp into 
bottles* cork them very close, and tie tliem 
over ; place these bottles upright in a large 
saacepau, with hay between to prevent their 
touching ; put the saucepan on the fire, and 
fill it with water. When the water is near 
boiling, take it off and let it stand till the 
bottles are cold ; then put them in a cellar, 
without touching each other, until wanted, 
when they will De found as good to use as 
fresh fruit. The apricots may also be pre- 
served whole by the same means. 

APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Choose 
vour apricots when quite ripe, let them be 
free from spots, rub them carefiilly with a 
linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh 
your frait, and to each pound put a quarter 
of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it 
to the degree grand per 14, then put in the 
apricots: boil them three or four times, tak- 
ing care to turn them frequently, that they 
may take the sugar in all parts. Take them 
off the fire, and put them one by one into 
glass bottles; tlie sirup being by this time 
nearly cold, pour the brandy (three demise- 
tiers to each pound) into it by degrees, stir- 
ring constantly to mix it well with the sirup. 
When thoroughly incorporated, pour it into 
the bottles, thie fruit at first wiJJ float ; but 
when the brandy and sugar have soaked in 
they will sink to the bottom ; tli^ are then 
fit to eat. 

APRICOT COMPOTE, GREEN. 

Green apricots are done exactly the same as 
green almeods. See Almonds. 

APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, 
and take tlie stones from your frait, and put 
them on the fire in a little water, and when 
they rise they are sufficiently done, and may 
be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then 
put them into a little clarified sugar and give 
them three or four boilings ; ekim them well, 
and then put your finit aside; boil the sugar 
' alone four or five times more, and pour it 
over the apricots. When cold place them 
in the compotier» 

APRICOT CONSERVE. Take half- 
ripe apricots, peel and cut them into thin 
slices, dry them over a gentle fire ; to four 
(Hinoes of fruit put one pound of sugar, boiU 
ed to the d^ree la plume forte; when the 
sugar is nearly cold put in the fruit, taking 
tare to g^ it well with a spoon,- that they 
may be well incorporated. 

APRICOTS PARISIEN. Take five 
dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, 
and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, 
with half a pound of sugar and four glasses 
o^ water; as soon as you find tho peel will 

23*' 



come off easily, bike tliem out and drain 
them, and put fresh apricots into the sirup, 
and proceed the same until all are pealed, 
then reduce the sirup to the usual consis- 
tence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, on which grate 
die zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight 
or nine glasses of milk, and three-quarters 
of a pound of raisins, into a saucepan, and 
when it boils take it from the fire and put it 
on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally for 
an hour, wheq, if the rice be quite soft, mix 
the yolks often eggs with it. 

APRICOTS IN JELLY. Pare and 
stone ^our apricots, scald them a little, lay 
them in a pan, and cover them with clari- 
fied sugar; next day drain the sirup, and 
boil it smooth, then add the apricots and 
boil together; the following day make a 
jelly with codlings, boiling some apricots 
among tLem, to give a better flavor. When 
the jelly is done put in the otiier fruit with 
the sirup, and boil altogetlier, skim it well 
and put it in glasses. 

APRICOT MARMALADE. Peel the 
apricots, and take out the stones; to each 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound 
of clarified sugar, boil it to the decree gro$ 
houlet, then put in the apricots, boil both to«> 
^ether: when it flows readily it may be put 
into pots. 

APRICOT RATAFU. Peel and cut 
into pieces as mati;|^ ripe apricots as you 
may require, and boil them m white wine 
(about a pint to four dozen;) strain and 
mix if with an equal quantity of brandy ; 

Cut the whole into a jar, with the kernels 
raised, add a quarter of a pound of suear 
to each pint. Let it infuse for three we>£s, 
then filter and bottle it. 

APRICOT SWEETMEAT, wholk 
AND DRY. Choose fine firm apricots, make 
a little opening at the top to take out the 
stone, put them into cold water, then blanch 
them over the fire ; when they begin to boil, 
take out those which are soft, throw them 
into cold vi^ter, and drain them. In the 
meantime, prepare some clarified sugar to 
petit liaei. When it boils put in the apri- 
cots, and boil up a few times together. The 
next dav separate the sugar firom the fruit, 
boil d la nappe, and then pour it oy&r the 
apricots again ; the following day boil the su- 
gar petit peris, then add the fiiiit, and boil 
togetlier; the fourth day drain them; and, 
having placed them on iron plates, sprinkle 
them with sugar before you put them into 
die stove to dry ; when dry, place in boxes 
in layers, placing a i^eet of paper betweea 
each layer. 



BAE 



960 



BAR 



B. 



BADIANE, INDIAN. Take a poand 
of staired anise, pound and ioliiae it in six 
qnarta of good brandy for a week, when 
add to it apint and a half of water, and 
distil it. Di88olv« seven pounds and a 
half of sotar in seven pints (tf water, and 
add it to Uie distilled liquear. Stir it well, 
strain and bottle it. This Is also called 
Badiane Cream* Some persons cok>r it 
with a little cochineal, it is then called Oil 
tf Badiane. 

BALM WINE. Boil twenty pounds of 
hmp sugar in fiMir gallons and a half of 
water gentiv for an hour, and put it in a 
tnb to cool. Bruise two pounds of the 
tops of ffreen balm, and put them into a 
buret with a little new yeast, and when 
the sirup is nearly cold pour it on the 
balm. Stir it well together, and let it 
stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently ; 
brinff it up, and when it has stood fur six 
weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into 
each bottle ; cork it tiffht. The longer it 
is kept the better it will be. 

BALSAM, SIRUP OF. Put an ounce 
of balsam of tolu into a quait of spring wa- 
ter, and boil them two hours ; add a pound 
of w^ite pounded sugar-candy, and boil it 
half an hour longer. Take out the bal- 
sam, and strain the sirup twice ; when cold, 
bottle it. 

BARBADOES CREAM. Take the 
tests of three fine cedrats, two drachms of 
cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them 
into three quarts of brandy ; close the ves- 
sel hermetically, and let it infuse for a 
week, then distil it in an alembic. Dis- 
solve over the fire three pounds of suear in 
a quart of pure river ^vater, add to it half a 
pound of oranffe-fiower water, work the 
mixture, and filter it through a straining 
bag into bottles for use. 

BARBADOES WATER. Take the 
outer rind of eight large fiorentine citrons, 
half an ounce of bruised cinnajnon, and a 
gallon of rectified spirit; distil in ^e bain 
marie; dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
quart of water ; mix it with the distilled 
hquor ; filter and bottle it for use. 

BARBADOES WATER AMBER- 
CX>LORED. Infuse the yellow rind of 
six bergamots, half an ounce of cinnamon, 
ami two drachms of cloves bruised, for six 



days in m gattoo of rectifiad apirit; tfaoi 
add a drachm of safioo, aad let the whole 
stand six days longer. D i ssolv e two pooails 
of siwar in a quart of water^ add it to tiM 
infusios, and filler lor use. 

BARBERRY BISCUITS. Frtm tte 
mice through a sieve from two poimda of 
barberries, and mix with it ffv« pounds of 
sifted suffar ; whisk the whites of four eggs 
and add then to the fruit ; prepaid some 
square paper casesi fill them with the jam, 
make them quite smooth, lay them on 
sieves, and pot them into a stove, and let 
them remain six or eight days. When 
perfectly dir, tiake away the papers : keep 
them in a dry plaoe. 

BARBERRIES, TO CANDY. Take 

the barberries out of the preserve, and 
wash oflf the sinip in warm water ; then 
sift over them some fine sugar, and set 
them in an oven, often moving them, and 
strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. 

BARBERRY DROPS. Cut oflf the 
black tope, and roast the finiit before the 
fire till soft enough to pulp with a silver 
spoon through a sieve into a china basin, 
then set tlie basin in a saucepan of wat»r 
the size of the top of tlie basin, and stir 
the barberries till they become tliick. 
When cold, put to every pint, a pound and 
a half of the best suear pounded as fine aa 
possible. Beat the ^uit and si:^^ ti^nether 
ifor two hours and a half (or moYe for a 
lar^e quantity), then drop it on sheets of 
white thick paper. If, when you drop, it 
runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will 
look rough if you put too much. 

BARBERRY ICE. Put some barber- 
ries into a pan without water, set it over 
a gentle fire, stirring them constantly; 
when warm, pass them through a sieve, 
into a pan, add to the liquor clarified si%ar ; 
if too tfiick, put a little water, but no Tern- 
on-juice, as the barberries are sufficiently 
acid without ; then put it into the taboHere 
to congeal. 

BARJBERRY ICE CREAM. Put a 

large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint 
of cream ; add the juice of a lemon and a 
little cochineal ; stir h well, and finish as 
directed, see Ice. 

BARBERRY ICE WATtR. Mix one 
spoonful of berberry jam with the mice c^ 
a lemon, a pint of water, and a little cocfa. 
ineal ; pass it through a sieve and freeze it ' 
take care that it is thick and smooth be* 
(bre you put in moulds^ 



L 



BAH 



261 



B£ll 



BARBIBRRT MARCHPANE. Tate 

three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds 
and a half of sugar, and a pound of bar- 
berries; pound the ahnonds to a paste, mix 
tiiem witn the sugar boiled to petit boule, 
and ttien add tlie juice of the bai-foerries 
strained; stir tliem toother well, and place 
tliem on hot ashes, stiiring tliem continual- 
ly until the paste is formed ; then put it on 
a table sprinkled with sugar and let it cool ; 
spread it out about tfie tliicknees of a crown 
piece, cut it into various forms, place them 
on sheets of paper, and bake tliem in a 
moderate oven and glaze tliem. You may 
use any other firuit you tliink proper. 

BARBERRY PASTILE. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, strain it in a cloth or bag, and put 
it into a mortar, witli a spoonAiI of bar- 
berry marmalade ; mix it well, and add as 
much powder-sugar as will nisike it inio a 
malleable paste ; you may also put in a lit- 
tle cochineal dissolved ; form it into what 
shapes you please. 

BARBERRIES PRESERVED IN 
Bunches. Clioose those barberries which 
have the lai^est seeds, which may be ex- 
tracted carefully with tlie nib of a pen. 
Weigh yxmr fruit, and mix it with an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to petit botUe; 
boil them t(^ther two or three times, and 
fikin^ it. Set it aside in an earthen^ vessel 
until the next day, when it may be put in 
pots and covered. 

BARBERRY WAFERS. Press out 
the juice from as many bartxnries as you 
may require, and mix it with powder-su- 
gar, and the white of one ^g, and stir it 
up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a 
fine paste. Lay a sheet of wafer paper oo 
a baking plate, and spread your paste over 
it very rain with a knife ; cut it into twelve 
pieces, and put them round a stick (the 
paste upwards) in a hot stove to curl; when 
half curled, take them off carefiilly, and set 
them up endways in a sieve ; let them stand 
for a whole day in a hot stove. 

BARBERRY WATER. Put two large 
spoonfuls of barberiy jam, tlie juice of two 
lemons and a gill of sirap in a basinf, and 
dilute it with water; add a little cochineal, 
and if not rich enoi^fh, more sirup; strain 
it through a fine sieve. 

BARLEY SUGAR. Clarify two pounds 
of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, in 
a deep copper vessel with a lip ; pour it in 
straight lines about an inch thick, on a 
tnarbie ahb previoulBly rubbed with butter. 
Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of 



sugar and twist it; when eold cut it imo 
proper lengths and put them by iti glaMk. 
They must be kept m a dry place. 

BARLEY SUGAR DROPS. Prortftd 
as for barley sugar. Have ready a Idrge 
sheet of white paper, covered with a dinooui 
layer of sifted sugar. Pour out tlie boft^ 
sugar in drops the size of a shilling; when 
cold, fold tliem separately in paper, a few 
drops of tlie essence of ginger or fedaon will 
improve the flav(M'. 

BARLEY SIRUP. Make ofa pound of 
barley tliree quarts of barley water ; strain 
out the barley, and put to the water a hand- 
ful of scabious, tormeutil, hyssop, agrimony, 
horehound, maiden hair, sanicle, betons, 
burage, buglose, rosemary, marigolds, sage, 
violets and cowslips, of each a pint, wlien 
picked; a pound of raisins stoned, half 
a ^und of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of 
dates stoned; half a pound of green liquor- 
ice, caraway, fennel and aniseed, of each 
one ounce, hartshoni, ivy, elecampane 
roots', of each an ounce; tlie roots of fen- 
nel, asparagus, couchgrass, polipodium, 
and oak parsley, of each a handful : clean, 
bruise tlie seeds, slice the roots, and put all 
into the barley water, cover close, and 
boil gently for twelve hours ; dien strain 
and press out the juice, and let it stand 
twenty-four hours; when clear, add to it 
rose water and hyssop, half a pint of each, 
and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a 
drachm of safiron, three pints of tlie best 
honey, and as many pounds of sugar as 
quarts of liquor, boil diis an hour and a 
lialf, keeping it clean scummed, then bot- 
tle it, cork it well, and put by for use. 

BARLEY WATER. Put a quarter 
of a pound of pearl-barley into two quarts 
of water, let it boil, skim it veiy clean, 
boil half away, and strain it off. Sweeten 
according to taste, and put in two glasses 
of white wine, or some lemon-juice. Drink 
it warm. 

BERGAMOT DROPS. Mix the iuice 
of four or five lemons, and some sifted su- 
gar, with a wooden spoon; add to this 
twenty dro[)s of essence of berganiot ; mix 
it well in, and having stirred it over the 
fire three or four minutes, drop it about 
the size of a sixpence on writing paper, 
and let them stand till cold. 

BERGAMOT WAFERS. Squeeze 
six leoMns into a basin, and mix some 
sifled sugar, essence of bergamot, and the 
white of an rag, with the juice; beat 
thiem toeether till very white; if it becomes 
too thick, add the juiue of anoUifer lemon ; 



BIS 



362 



BIS 



■preid yoar pane, and dry tbem ai 6ar- 
btrry wqftrB. 

BERGAMOT WATER. To the rinds 
of three beiigamotB, put a gallon of proof 
apirit, and two quarts of water; draw off 
one gallon by the 6atii marie, and sweeten 
with sugar. 

BERGAMOT WATER. Take three 
gills of sirup, the juice of six lemons, and 
when diluted sufficiently with water, add 
a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. 
Strain it through a 6ne sieve for use. 

BERGAMOT WATER ICE. Stir 
together the juice of three lemons, two gills 
of sirup, half a pint of water, and half a 
tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain 
and freeze it. 

BETONY, CX)NSERVE OF. Take 
a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf su- 
gar, bent them in a stone mortar; boil the 
sugar with two quarts of betony water to 
the thickness of a simp, then mix them to- 
gether by little and little, over a gentle 
Are, make it into a CQ(iserve, and keep it in 
glasses. 

BISCUITS. Lay tlie rind of a lemon 
in boiling water, till it lie tender ; take half 
a pound of sweet ahnonds, and blanch tlicm 
in cold water, and two ounces of gum-drng- 
on, which soak in fair water; then pound 
the almonds, putting in as you pound, the 
whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound 
the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and 
put the gum and die lemon into the almonds, 
and mix them well together; then beat a 
pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add 
two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it 
with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, 
and lay them upon white papers, and set 
them in the oven. 

BISCUITS IN CASES. Prepare 
your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, 
and fill some little round or square cases 
with it. Tlien with the rolling pin crush 
some fine siigaur, but not to a powder, and 
strew it over your biscuits, which place on 
a copper plate, and when the sugar begins 
to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the 
mouth of which put a shovel full of burning 
coals to crystallize the sugar; and when that 
assumes the appearance of little pearls, re- 
move the coals and close the oven. These 
oiscuits will require from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes baking. 

BISCUITS ICED Beat up the white 
of eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with a 



pomid of fine powdered aagar» for two boon 
Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried 
sifted flour ; when the oven is reaufy and 
your plates buttered, mix the flour as qaidk 
as possible with the egga, &c., and lay the 
biscuits (Ml the plates^; you may add a little 
musk and ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. 

BISCUIT, ITALIAN. Bake a biscuit, 
made like Iced biecuii, in a plain, round 
mould ; cot it across, in slices an inch 
thick ; pour on each slice a spoonfiil of true 
maraschino, and wh^a they have imbibed 
this, place them in their proper form, and 
mask the whole, either with white of eg^ and 
sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with 
apricot marmalade, on which strew poiiDded 
macaroons. 

BISCUITS OF ITALIAN WATER. 

Whisk up six e^s, and an equal weight of 
powder-sugar, for half an hour. Take six 
more eggs and tlieir weight of flour, and mix 
all together, and lay this mixture on paper, in 
cakes the eighth of an indi thick, and about 
two inches diameter ; lay them quite flat, 
and do not let them touch. The oven should 
be hot ; five minutes will bake them. When 
cold, wet the under side of the paper, and 
tliey will then remove easily. 

BISCUITS, JUDGES. Break six 

eggs into a basin, and whisk them wdl 
fur five minutes, add half a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and whisk again for ten roinuteB 
longer; put some caraway-«eeds and half 
a pound of dry sifted flour ; mix them all 
together with a wooden ^xx>n. Drop tbem ' 
on paper about the size of a crown-piece, 
and thick in the middle ; sift si^r over, 
and bake them in a brick oven. Take 
them off the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, LIGHT. Take ten em, 
put tlie yolks of five in a pan with a few 
crisped orange-flowers, the peel of a green 
lemon, botli shred fine, and three-quarten 
of a pound of fine su^ar ; beat the whole 
topnether till the sugar is dissolved and well 
mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten whites 
to a froth, and and to the sugar, stir in 
lighdy, and by d^rees, six ounces of flour, 
put tnem into buttered moulds, powdering 
them with fine sugar, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUITS, MANQUES. Put into an 

earthen pan half a pound of powdernMigar, 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, the same of pounded 
almonds, a little salt, and some orange- 
flowe* water, six yolks, and two whole 
(^gs ; beat up these mgredieots well ; whip 
toe six whites, and mix them graduidlj 



I 



J 



BIS 



263 



BIS 



«rkh the abtfre jprepiffatlon ; ndke a pap^ 
tHifl», totter aaid pour in It yoar biscuit 
fMnte fend bake it. Meanivhne cut eome 
almondi into ^tber dice or fliifw, mix tikera 
with some powder-sugar and white of egg; 
%hea the biscuit manques is about tlu^ 

Crts dcBae^ dm^x and cover it with this 
ter -mixture $ tken replace it in the ovm 
•luiid finish bakiiY. As soon as k is done> 
take it out and cat k into vvfaatever forms 
yoor itatey may dictate* 

BISCUITS, ItfARBLED. Make twen- 
ty-four e^, a pound of powdernBOgar, and 
UNree-quarters of a pound of dried and siAed 
Aior, into a biscnit paste, as directed for 
Spoon BitcmUj then beat four ounces 
of dissolved cbooolale in an earthen pan, 
and add to it a third of the paste; when it 
is well mixed, divide it in half, and to on^ 
hatfmix a quarter of the biscait-jMiste, which 
will tim that poitioA a lieht diocolate oo)- 
tn*. After jbis^ mix togetner some Tegeta- 
Mfe red and infusion of sa£fr6n to cdor haif 
tiie remaiaiBg paste ortaige; then divide 
ikel again* amd mix the ukt quarter with 
liaif & tmti^B*calt9ir, thus your paite will 
he tailored with tivto irfiades of chocolate 
and two of tirangew 

Make tw6 pap«r caste, each eight inch- 
as sqittre and thrae hiffh, poar iato one of 
tbebe a btge qpoonm of tthe chocolale- 
parte, and t>nien k has spread over the faot- 
teol of tke case^ pour in one «f the orange- 
«ok>red, on wbi<» aaotlcr of die chocolate, 
and ao ob> akernalely, oBtU the case is half 
M ; tkea sprinkle it with fk>nr, and put it 
into a slow ovtn for tkive^oarters of an 
Iraun Pul ^ remainder of your Ibisoait- 
paste (both colors) into a pan and stir them 
tf^ther with a spoon till the whole is 
vetted, or douded with the tlvo colors ; pour 
it into the other case, sprinkle it with 6oar 
and bake like the former; when quile cold, 
«IM tlmn into slices about two indies thick, 
faalfof whidi should be broken, and the other 
half out in pieces of an eqiaaX size, lay them 
OB a baking<*plate, and dry ^em in the oven. 
These are generally used to mkke the rocks 
HI ornamental pastn^, and mav be colored 
with the usoal materials, according to your 
fancy. 

BISCUITS, MARCHPANE. Beat a 
~po«nd of sweet almonds to a very fine 
pai^ moisten them with water, then pat 
them and a pound of powder-sugar kito a 
■auoepeui, over a clear but not fierce char- 
cead fire, stirrifi^ constantly, till the paste 
leaves adhere together ; put it on a floured 
slab, and work it well with your hands for 
some tiiM, then roH small pieces of it about 
three inches long and half the thickness of 
yoor little finger, join the ends <^ each and 



Mafae thett mto round rings, lay theiti on a 
aieve in a dry warm place for two or three 
days. Wheh \ranted, mix some powder* 
sugar with the whites of eight egg's, and 
beat them with a wooden spoon m each 
hand ; add a cup of oranpe-fiower water. 
Put your rings into tliis icing, and cover 
them completely; lay them on a sheet of 
paper and bake in a slow oven until the 
icing sets and they b^in to change color. 
Do not remove Ihem fi^m the paper tiH cold . 

BISCUITS, MILLEFRUIT. Take 
preserved orange and lemon-ped, a quar- 
ter of a pound of each, six ounces of angel- 
ica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of 
bitter almonds ; cot all the above ingredi^its 
into pieces half an inch long and a quarter 
wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, 
si^r and orai^Hfk»wer water ; put the al<- 
monds, &c. into this, and having jpojfter on 
your baking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of 
whatever siae you please; then with a hair 
pencil tottch them here and there with a 
little cochineal. Bake tfaem» but not in toa 
hot an oven. 

BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the 
weight of six ^gs in powder-sugar, and 
mix it with the yolks and a little pounded 
cinnamon ; whisk the whites to a firm fix>th, 
and «tir them lightly into the yolks; add 
fear whole eggs, and their weieht of dry 
sifted flour, mix them well together; take 
thie mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about 
the size of a half-crown piece on paper, 
join two together with the spoon, and when 
your paper is fiill, spi'inkle powd^-sugar 
over and bake them ; a few minutes will do 
them. RbmoVe them firom the paper while 
hot and put the two undersides togetlier. 

BISCUITS, PRINCESS AMELIA. 

Put die whites of tv^ve eggs into an earth- 
en pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to them eig^it oimi<»8 of double refined 
sugar, pounded and siAed; having mixed 
them, put in three ounces of flour, and three 
of powdernsugar sifted, the grated rind of 
one or two lemons and half a cofiee cop of 
oranse^ower watei*, ^r them well with a 
wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the 
snow : drop them on paper of a Jaig^ sixe 
than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to 
a dear brown in a modetate oven. Take 
them from tlie paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, SAVOY. Whip twelve 
whites of e§gB to a mow; beat the yolks 
with a pound and a quarter of powderneugar, 
mix them together, with three^uarters of a 
pound of flour and the grated rind of a lem- 
on, into a paste, rab your mould with mdted 
butter, and bake it. 



BIS 



264 



BIS 



BISCUITS, LARGE SAVOY. Take 
fifly-shc eggs, four poundB of Mwar, the ire«- 
tctof four orangn, a pomNl ana tbree-quar- 
ten of potatoe-loor sifted ; and make voor 
biscuit as follows: grate the Xftew or the 
oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as 
it becomes colored, scrape it off, and grate 
again until all the xeHe is done, then dry 
the sugar perfectly, crush and sift it. 

Brndi your eggs one by one, (taking care 
that all are perfectly fresh;) put the yolks 
and whites into separate vessels; mix half 
your sugar with the former, stirrinff it in 
with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then 
add the remainder, and w(Mk it well for 
twenty minutes. Whip the whites till quite 
firm, putting in a small quantity of pounded 
alum; when sufficiently whipped, which 
may be known by little points rising when 
the whisk is taken out; mix a little with 
the yolks; still, however, keeping the whites 
stirring; then pour the yolks on them very 
gently mixing them together as you pour, 
with the whisk: sift over the whole a pound 
of potatoe-ik>ur, stirring the mixture all the 
time; wlien ready to put into the mould, 
your paste should Be very smooth, and some- 
what of the consistence of treacle. Butter 
the mould, and put in a few spoonfuls of 
your paste at first, to prevent any globules 
of air appearing on the top when baked; 

Eur in the remainder carefully. Cover a 
king-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould 
in the midat of ihem, and place it in a mod- 
erate oven ; keep it open for an hmir, that 
the biscuit may oe watched, and if it takes 
color too quickly, cover it with paper. In 
diree hours time take it from the oven, and 
if it be of a good ook>r, and firm, turn it on 
a baking'tin, tie round it a band of double 
paper, uid replace it in the oven for a quar- 
ter of an hour to dry. 

IBID, WITH ALMONDS. The in- 
gredients for this biscuit are the same as 
above, widi the addition of four eggs, and 
half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the 
almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in 
a napkin ; pound them with whites of eg^ 
in -the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it 
through a sieve, and then mix it with the 
additional eggs; add this to the sugar and 
yolks, and proceed as above. 

BISCUITS, SPICE. Take three 
pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut 
in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace 
pounded, and one pound of powdernsugar ; 
mix them all tt^ther on your slab; boil 
three pounds of Lisbon sugar with some wa- 
ter ; make the above ingredients into a paste 
with this, and roll it to the size of a laree 
rolling-pin; lay it on a sheet of paper, £it 
it down a little with your hand, keeping it 



hi^jfaer in the middle than at the ends; put 
it into a very hot oven ; when done, take it 
out, and while hot, cut it across, in alicesi an 
eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. 



BISCUITS, FINE SPONGE. 
twelve eggs, separate the yolks and wiiites; 
to the former put three quarters of a poond 
of powder-suear, stir them vrell with a wood- 
en spoon, tm it rises in laiige bladders; 
whisk the whites to a very finn fix>th, and 
then mix them very lightly with the yoDu 
and sugar, and wboi incorporated, add ten 
ounces of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir 
them all together well, and pour the mix- 
ture into wdl-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar 
over, and bake them in a modoute oven. 
Take them from the tins while hot. 

» BISCUITS, SPOON. Break four eggs, 
put the yolks and whites into separate 
basins; add to the former a quarter of a 
pound of powder-sugar; havii^ grated oik 
It the xeMte oi a lemon, mix these together 
vrell with a spatula for ten minutea; then 
whip the whites to a finoth, and pat abouc 
halt of them to the ycXka, and when that ia 
well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very 
lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper, 
make them aliout three inches kx^, and die 
breadth of a finger. Glaze them with pow- 
der-sugar, and place them on baking tins, 
add, as the sugar dissolves, and they ahine, 
put the biscuits into a moderate oven, which 
must be kept open for seven or eight minutes 
then close it until your biscuitt are of a pro- 
per ook>r. When cold, detach them nnom 
the paper with a thin knife-blade, and lay 
than by, in couples, the glaied aides out- 
wards, till wanted. 

BISCUITS, SWEET. Take half a 
pound of fine pounded sagar, and sift it 
throwh a tammy. Put the whites of twelve 
eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks 
into an earthenware tureen ; whip the whites 
to a snow, and then carefully pour on it the 
yolks and sugar; stir them gendy; place 
your pan over a chafing-dish; continue 
whipping the wliole for a roll half boor, and 
then, if the drop which fells firom the whisk 
lays a little while without spreading, take it 
firom the fire, and whisk again till it is cold; 
then add half a pound of fine sifted flour, stir 
it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop 
them on paper, sift sugar over, and bake 
them in a warm oven undl of a deep yeUow; 
take them finom the papors while warm; 
bake them as soon as possible after they an 
dropt on paper. 

piSCUITS, SWEETMEAT. Cnt 
some Naples biscuits into pieces about an 
inch thick, and an inch and a half sqaBre9 



BLA 



365 



BOU 



and just criap them in the oven. Make some 
icing with whites of ^[ga, sugar, and orange- 
flower water; dip one side of the biscuit 
into it; cut some preserved lemon and 
orange-peel and angelica into small pieces ; 
strew them over the biscuits, and dry the 
icing in the oven. 

BISCUITS, TOAD - IN - A - HOLE. 
Beat a pound of sweet, and an ounce and a 
half of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, 
moisten with water, and mix the paste, 
which should not be too thin, with a pound 
and a quarter of white sugar. Lay a dieet 
of writing-paper on your baking-plate, and 
wafer-paper on that ; lay the biscuits about 
the size of a half-crown piece ; put a di'ied 
cherry in the middle of each ; sifl sugar over 
and Mike them in a moderate oven. When 
done, cut the wafer-paper round, but do not 
lake it away. 

BLACKBERRY WINE, Put full rijw 
blackberries into a large vessel with a cock 
in it, pour on as much boiling water as 
will cover tliem, and as soon as the heat 
will permit, bruise them well with tlie hand 
till alltlie berries are broken; cover them, 
and in about three or four ditys, when tlie ber- 
ries rise to the top, draw off the clear part 
into another vessel ; add to every ten quarts 
of the liquor one pound of sugar, stir it well 
in, and let it stand a week or ten days to 
woik. Draw it off through a jelly-bag. Steep 
four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet 
wine fur twelve hours, then ix)il it slowly 
till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the black- 
l)eiTy juice, boil tliem togcUier and tlien 
put all together; let it stand a few days, and 
bottle. 

BLANC-MANGE, DUTCH. Put a 

pint of cleared calf'g-foot jelly into a stew- 
pan ; mix with it the yolks of six ^gs, set 
it over a fire, and whisk till it begins to 
boil; then set the pan in cold water, and stir 
the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it 
from curdling, and when it begins to thicken 
fill the moulds. 

BLANC-MANGE, FRENCH. Blanch 
one pound of sweet, and a score of bitter 
almonds: drftin them on a sieve, and after- 
wards dry them, by nibbing them in a nap- 
kin; pound them in a mortar, continually 
moistening them witli half a tea-spoonful of 
water at a time, to prevent dieir oiling. 
When they are pounded as fine as possible, 
take them out of tlie mortar, and put them 
into a pan; then with a silver spoon, beat 
np your almonds gradually, with five glasses 
of filtered watei*; after this, spread a napkin 
over an oval dish, and put your almonds 
upou it; thai gather up tl)« corners of your 



napkin, and wring it ray tight, to press out 
all the milk firom the almonds; then put 
into this milk, twelve ounces of crystallized 
sugar, broken into small pieces ; when the 
sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a 
napkin; and then add to it one ounce of 
cWified isinglass, rather warmer than luke- 
warm ; and when the whole is well incorpo- 
rated together, pour it into your mould. 
Your mould should be previously put into 
ten pounds of pounded ice ; when your blanc- 
mange is ready to serve, (which will be in 
two hours after it has been put into the 
mould,) you must take it oat of the mould 
according to the rule prescribed in Violet 
Jelly, 

BLANC-MANGE WITH FRUIT. 

Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and 
when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool 
for half an hour, skim, and pour it free from 
sediment into another pan ; then whisk with « 
it a table-spoonful of cedrat, and half a 
pound of currant jelly, strawberr}', or nisp- 
berry jam ; and when it begins to jelly, fill 
tlie moulds. 

BLANC-MANGE, without either 
Isinglass or Icing. Prepare your 
almonds in tlie same manner as in the re- 
ceipt for Blanc-mange d la FranpaUe, but 
only using half the quantity specified in that 
receipt, and likewise leaving out the isinglass. 
Tlien put into a pan tlie whiles of four eggs, 
and whip them till they begin to whiten, 
then add your blanc-mange, and place your 
pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip 
your preparation until the egg is thoroughly 
mjxed with tlie almonds, and the whole be- 
gins to turn to a tiiick cream ; and when it 
IS of a proper consistence, pour into little 
cups, and serve it either hot or cold. 

Wlien you wish to serve this entremet 
in little cups, and of any fiavor you please, 
you must only make Ufle of two-thirds of the 
quantity of almonds, named in the receipt 
for Blanc-mange French, 

BOUCHEE9 DE DAMES. Mix with 
six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
three ounces of potato-fiour, a little salt, 
and a pinch of dried orange-flowers : beat 
them together well, and having buttered a 
tin, lay your paste on it, and Imke it in a 
gentle oven for a quai*ter of an hour; when 
done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a 
crown piece, and glaze tliem, mask them- 
according to your pleasure, and dry them 

in the oven. 

* 

BOUCHEES PETITES, GLACEES. 

Roll some puff paste to about the eighth of 
an inch in thickness, and with a plain round 
paste-cutter, of two inches diameter, cut out 



BOU 



266 



Bt7T 



Mmuqr cakei as you may require; then 
with a smaller cuttei', take out tfac midiile 
of lialf the Durobor, so aa U> make liog^ of 
tbeui; moisteo the edges of tiie firmer, aad 
lay the rings on them; wet them ako as 
you lay theia down, spriakle Uiem lightly 
with powder sugar, and bake them in a 
Irisk oven. These boueheea require great 
attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to 
dissolve and color too quickly ; when oooe, 
they sluMild be of a reddish tinge. Fill 
them with sweatmeats, preserves, or whip- 
ped cream, according to £uicy. 

BOUCHEESDE MONSIEUR. Pound 
a slick of vanilla with two ounces of pow- 
der-sugar, and then siA it; mix with it 
seven additicmal ounces of dry powdernsu- 
gar, and half a pound of sifted flour; add to 
this tlie whites of four ^gs, whipped firm, 
and work them together till the paste is 
very smooth and soft. Heat two copper- 
plates, rub them over witli wax, and tlien 
wi()e tliem; when cold^ lay the paste with 
a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, 
shaded quite round, leave three-quarters of 
an inch splice between each; when the 
plates are full, put them onstoolEi in an oven, 
so that they can receive no lieat from below, 
then put a stove with liot coals ou tlie top 
of tlic oven, and let them remain in tiiis 
stale for twenty-four hours ; then put them 
for fiAecn or twenty minutes into a mode- 
rate oven. Take them from the plates 
whilst hot, and as soon as cold, finish them 
in tlie same way as bouchees de dames; 
glaze them with chocolate, a la rose, with 
pislachios, orange, cedrat, &c. &c. They 
may also be masked witli sugar, pistachios, 
currants, &c. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, MERIN- 
GUES A UX PISTACHES. Malie tliem 
the same as above, strew sugar over witli- 
out wetting the rings, and Inike them to a 
light color in a moderate oven. Then mix 
a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar witli 
three whites of eggs, well whipped, and 
mask the bouchees lightly with it, and 
glaze them with sug;ir; having ready a 
quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts blancli- 
ed, and each cut across sloping; place these 
pieces round the edge of the bouchees like 
a crown ; and each piece of the pistacliios 
being placed on the cut side, they stand out 
from tlie edge of die bouchee: diis process 
being finished, put them in the oven again a 
few minutes, to color the egg ; and in the 
meantime stir up the white of egg which 
remains, and make with it half as many 
nteringuees as you have bouchees, sprin- 
kle them wid) sugar, and color both sides 
of them in a slow oven ; and when ihe bou- 
chees are ready for table, fill them with 



I, and eoi 



whipped cream, with 
each with iialf a meringue. 



BOUCHEES PETITES, PERLEES. 
Your bouchees bein^ made and baked as 
above, whip the whites of two eggs to a 
firm froth, and mix them with fb«ir i^wod- 
fuls of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, 
mask your boucheee with it: tbea ted^e 
some white of eg^, and with the point of a 
knife, drop them in pearls about the siae of 
a grape-stone, round each bouekee, half am 
inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, 
and dry the egg in the oven, taking cara 
tii^ do not lose tlieir whiteness. 

when coM, place between each pearl a 
smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill your 
bouchees with apricot marmalade, apple- 
jelly, &c. ; if, however, the jelly, or what- 
ever else you may use, be of a red coihar^ 
^our intermediate pearls should be composed 
of light-colored preserve, such as apricot 
marmalade, &c. These should be pearled 
a few at a time only. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, PRALI- 

NEES. Having prepared the bouchees as 
usual, dorez and bake them in a moderate 
oven ; when they are of the proper color, 
mask them with whites of eggs mixed with 
sugar, and almonds minced very small ; re- 
place them in die oven a minute or two, 
and then strew red, or any oth^ colored 
sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover 
the almonds entirely. Fill the boufiheee 
as usual. 

BOUCHEES PETITES, a la 
Reine. The same as above, only the 
paste must be cut thicker, and before you 
dorez, let diem stand a few minutes. Bake 
in a brisk oven. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (1) Gath- 
er the berries in the heal of the day, and set 
in an earthen vessel in the oven ; squeeze out 
the juice, and for each peck of berries |Mit 
two pounds of white sugar, and boil them 
together a quarter of an hour; I^ it cool, 
and then bottle it. 

BUCKTHORN, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 

three Quarts of the juice of clarified biick- 
diorn berries, and four pounds of brown 
sugar ; make them into a sirup over a gentle 
fire, and while warm, mix with it a drachm 
of tlie distilled oil of cloves, dissolved on & 
lump of sugar. The tni& buckthorn may be 
known by tlie number of its seeds, having 
four, the alder buckthorn has only two, and 
ihe clicrry buckthorn one seed. The for- 
mer is to be used. 

BUTTER, BLACK. Three pounds of 



CAN 



26t 



CAP 



fruit, cnrauts, gooMborriw, rMpberries, 
and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, 
boiled till quite Chick* It must waste to 
half the quantity. 



C. 



CAKES MADE OF FLOWERS. Boil 
double refined sugar to a candy height, and 
strew in your lowers and iet tli^m boil 
once up; then, with your hand, lightly 
strew iu a little doable refined sugar sifted, 
and put it directly into little pans made of 
card, and pricked full of holes at the bot- 
tom ; you must set the pans on a cushion, 
and when they are cold, take them out. 

CAKES, HONEYCOMB. Boil your 
sugar to a candy height ; then put in your 
flowers, which must be cut; have little pa- 
pers with four comers ready ; drop some of 
your caody on the papers, take them off 
-when ready, and if thiey are rightly done, 
they will look fiiU of holes like honeycombs. 

CAKES, LIQUORICE. Take hyssop 
and red rose water, of each half a pint, half 
a potmd of green liquorice, the outside 
scraped off, and then beat with a pestle; 
put to it half a pound of aniseeds, and steep 
It all night in the water; boil it with a 
gentle fire till the taste is well out of the 
Hquorice ; strain it, put to it three pounds 
of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle 
fire till it is come to the thickness of cream ; 
take it off, and pitt to it half a pound of 
white sugar candy seered very fine; beat 
this well together for at least three hours, 
and never suffer it to stand still; as you 
beat it, you must strew in double-refined 
su^r finely seered, at least three pounds; 
half an hour before it is finished, put in half 
a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in or- 
ange-flower water: when it is very white 
then it is beat enough ; roll it up with white 
sugar; and if you want it perfumed, put in 
a pastil or two. 

CANDYING. Frait intended for can- 
dying must be first preserved, and dried in 
a stove before the fire, that none of the sir- 
up may remain in it. Sugar intended for 
the use of candying must be thus prepared: 
put into a tossing-pan a pound of sugar, 
with half a pint of water, and set it over a 
Tcry clear fire. Take off the scum as it 
rises; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and 
take out a little in a silver spoon. When 
it is cold, if it will draw a thread from 
your spoon, it is lx)iled enough for any kind 
of sweetmeat. Then boil your sirup, and 
Tvben it begins to candy round the edge of 

23 



your pan, it is candv height. It k a graat 
mistsike to pot any kind of sweetmeat into 
too thick a simp, especially at the first, as 
it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and 
flavor are thereby destroyed. 

CANDY FLOWERS. Take the 
best treble-refined sugar, break it into 
lumps, and dip it piece by piece into water } 
put them into a vessel of silver, and melt 
them over the fire; wlien it just boils, 
strain it, and set it on tlie firei again, and 
let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you 
may perceive by holding up your spoon; 
then put in the flowers, and set them in cups 
or glasses. When it is of a hard candy, 
break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you 
please. Drv it in a stove, or in the nin, 
and it will kxtk like sugar-candy. 

* CANDY, ALL SORTS OF FRUIT. 
When finislied in the sirup, put a layer into 
a new sauce, and dip it suddenly into hot 
water, to take off the sirup that liangs about 
it; put it on a napkin before the fire to 
drain, and then do some more on the sieve. 
Have ready-sifled double-refined sngar, 
which sift over the fruit on all sides, till 
quite white. Set it on the shallow end of 
the sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn 
it two or three tiroes. It must not be cold 
till diy. Watch it carefully, and it will be 
b^iutiful. « 

CANELLON8. Make a stiff paste, 
with a little melted butter, a spoonful or 
two of water, some rasped lemon-peel, an 
egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half 
that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin; 
make a little cane of card-paper, butter it 
well on the outside, and wrap it in some of 
the paste; bake it a few minutes; take out 
the caj*d, and fill the paste with currant jel- 
ly, or any otlier jelly or sweetmeat you 
please. 

CANNELLONS MERINGUES. Whip 
the whites of two eggs, and having mixed 
tiiem with two spoonfuls of powder-si^r, 
tlien mask the cannellons; when baked, 
crash a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, 
and roll tlie cannellons in it ; replace Ihem 
a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. 
The masking of these cannellons may be 
varied according to taste, with pistachios, 
dried currants, &c. the former cut in pieces, 
the latter well washed, dried and mixed 
with an equal quantity of sugar. 

CAPILLAIRE, eiRUP OF. The 

capillaire of Canada, altliough ^at of Mont- 
pelier is equally ffood, is a very odorife- 
rous vegetable, light and agreeable, but so 
extremely volatile, that the greatest part of 



CAR 



368 



CAR 



h H diwipated during the preparation of 
the ■imp. To preeenne then the odour of 
the capilbtire, when vour sirup is sufficient- 
It done, pour it, whibt boiling, upon some 
fresh capilhiire coarsely diopped up; then 
cover your vessel, and let it Ftand until it 
is quite cold, then pass it through a bolting- 
cloth to sepante it from the feaves of tlie 
capillaire. * 

Take one ounce of the capiihire from 
Ouiada; put it into a glased pan, (x>ur upon 
It four pints qf boiling water, leave it to in- 
fuse for twelve hours over some warm ashes ; 
strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will 
give you a strong tincture of capillaire; 
melt in this tincture four pounds of sugar, 
put the whole into a preser\'ing-pan, and 
put it on tlie fire, and clarify ii with the 
white of an eg^, continue tlie cooking ; wlien 
your sirup is pei'Ut put some fresh capil- 
uiire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your 
sirup, whilst boiling, upon it ; cover your 
pan carefully, and let Jt cool; when your 
sirup is cold, you may flavor it if you please. 
Put it into bottles, and cork them hermeti- 
cally. 

CAPILLAIRE, SIRUP OF. (2) Take 
tome good capillaire, chop it up, not very 
small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it 
some boiling water, and then let it infuse 
for ten hours in a vessel well covered ; stniin 
this infusion, and put into it some sugar 
boiled au casse; clarify tiiis sirup with the 
whites ot eggB whipped; skim it till it is 
very clear ; when it rises, take it off the 
fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into 
bottles. 

Viard and Beauvillicrs, whose receipts 
are nearly tlie same, Imil their capillaire for 
a quarter of an hour in river- water; after 
having passed this boiling through a sieve, 
they put into it some powder-sugar, and 
clarify their sirup with water, or a whole 
egg beaten up; then skim it, and when it is 
veiy clear and has boiled ou lis»e, they 
take it off the fire, and put into it some 
orange-flower water, and strain it through 
a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to 
cool before putting it into bottles. 

For three pints and a half of sirup, you 
must use two good ounces of capillaire, mur 
pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, 
powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents sir- 
ups from candying. 

CARAMEL. Break into a small copper 
or brass pan one pound of refined sugar ; 
put in a gill of spring-water ; set it on a 
lire; wh€« it boils skim it quite clean, and 
let it boil quick, till it comes to the d^ree 
called crack ; which may be known liy dip- 
ping a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, 
and letting it drop to the bottom of a pan 



ofcoM water; and if it remains hard, it haf 
attained that degree : squeeze in the juice 
of half a lemon, and let it remain one min- 
ute longer on the fire ; then set the pan into 
another of cold water : have ready moaUs 
of any shape ; ' rub them over with svraet 
oil ; dip a spoon or fork into the sc^r, and 
throw It over the mould in fine threads, till 
it is quite covered: make a small handle of 
caramel, or stick on two or three. small gum 
paste rings, by way of ornament, and pnoe 
It over small pastry of any description. 

CARAMEL CONSERVE, aarifv the 
quantity of sugar you may require, aiKT boil 
it to cai-amel; have ready some cases of 
double paper; pour in your sugar to the 
thickness of half an inch, and truce on its 
surface tlie forms you wish it to have ; when 
cold, break it accordino^ to those marks. 
This conserve may be colored and flavored 
according to the fancy. 

CARAMEL COVER FOR SWEET- 
MEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of double- 
refined sugar in tliree or four spoonfuls of 
water, and three or four drops of lemon- 
juice; tlien put it into a copper untinned 
skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the 
handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a 
pint basin of water, squeeze tlie sugar from 
tlie spoon into it, and so on till you have all 
the suj^ar. Take a bit out of the water, 
and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is 
done enougli ; but only let it be thi*ee parts 
cold, then pour the water from the sugar, 
and having a copper mould oiled well, run 
the suffar on it, in the manner of a maze, 
and when cold you may put it on the dish it 
is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not 
brittle, pour off the water, and return it in- 
to the sKillet, and boil it again. It should 
look thick like treacle, but of a bright light 
gold color. It makes a most elegant cover. 

CARDAMUM COMFITS. Pi-ocur« 
your cardamums at the cliemists, and they 
will be in a shell; put them into tlie oven Co 
dry the skins, and tliey will break; pick all 
tlie seeds from tliem, put the seeds into a 
large comfit-pan, and liave a fire under the 
same as for otliers ; mix your gum, starch, 
and sirup, and finish them the same as cara- 
way comfits. 

CARAWAY CAKE. Dry a quarter 
of a peck of .fine flour in an oven; rub a 
pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it 
is crumbled so small that none of it is to be 
seen ; then take six spoonfuls of rose water, 
half a pint of canan', half a pint of cream, 
and three-quarters of a pint of new ale yeast, 
and the whites of two, and yolks of four 
eggs; mix all these well together, let it lie 



CAS 



269 



CHA 



before the fire, and when you make it up 
put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, 
and three-quarters of a pound of caraway- 
comfits. Bake it. 

CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some 
fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from 
them, and have a large copper preserving- 
pan, about two feet wide, and with two 
handles and two pieces of iron made as a 
ring on each side ; then you must have a 
pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a 
nook to each end, so as to fix it at each 
side of the pan to let it sling; then have 
some fine starch as white as you can get, 
and just soften it, boil some sirup a quarter 
of an hour, and mix it with the starch; 
take some gum arabic, put it into some 
watei', then put that into another pan, and 
make it just warm ; have an iron^t with 
charcoal fire under the large pan, but not 
too hot, only just /to keep the pan warm ; 
have a lai^ tub to put your pot of fire at 
bottom, and your large pan must be on the 
top ; put the caraway seeds into your pan ; 
add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them 
willi your hands until you find they are all 
dry, then put a ladleful of starch and sirup, 
and do the same over your pan of fire, until 
you find they are all dry; put the gum only 
three or four times to them at fii*st, then the 
starch and sugar, but boil your sirup more 
as you find they come to coat with it, and 
not so much starch ; when you have dried 
them seven or eight times, put them into 
your sieve; put them into the stove, do 
them the next day, and so, successively, for 
six or seven days. 

CARAWAY DRAGEES. Take any 
quantity of caraway seeds you think proper, 
put them into a preserving-pan, ana when 
quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little 
at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the 
size you wish ; then proceed as directed for 
Almond Drtigeet, 

CASSIA CANDIED. Pound a little 
musk and ambei^ris with as much of the 
powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- 
lings. Having pounded them well together, 
take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and 
as much water as will wet it, and boil it to 
a candy height, then put in your powder 
and mix well together. Butter some pew- 
ter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. 

CASSIA RATAFIA OF. Take a 
pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter 
clierries, a quarter of a pound of cassia 
leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon; 
bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and 
pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredi- 
ents in three quarts of brandy for three 



weeks. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a 
quart of water, and mix with the liqueur, 
and let it stand some time lonser, thea 
strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. 

CEDRATS, BLANCMANGE OF 
Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar 
in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar 
have been used ; blanch and pound a pound 
of sweet almonds, moistening them with 
water; when perfectly smootli, dilute them 
with five glasses of water put in by degrees ; 
then pour them in a napkin, and squeezing 
it, express the milk of almonds from them; 
divide this into two equal parts, with one 
of which mix the six ounces of sugar with 
the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix 
the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon 
as both are dissolved, strain them, and piH 
in each half an ounce of isinglass: your 
mould being placed in ice, pour into it the 
white blancmai^ to three-quarters of an 
inch in depth; aa^soon as that is set, pour 
in an equal quantity of the other, which 
ought to be of a cIcbt yellow ; when that 
also is set, pour in some white, and so oo 
alternately, till the mould is full. Turn oat 
the blancmange as directed in Blancmange 
French* 

CEDRAT, CONSERVE OF. Grate 
the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice 
is ready to ooze out; this must he done by 
rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, 
(about a pound;) remove the surface of 
thiB sugar, to which the grated rind adheres, 
with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice 
of the cedrat. Dissolve the remainder of 
the sugar to the degree grande plumes 
then take it firom the fire, and when it has 
stood a little while, put in your cedrat, stir- 
ring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice 
forms on the top; you may then pour your 
conserve into moulds. Be careful not to 
put it in too hot. 

CEDRAT ZESTES, JELLY OF. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of lump su- 
gar, grate on it the zeetet of two ceoirats, 
and, as the sugar becomes colored, scrape 
it off with a knife, and grate again, and so 
on until all the xeeie is gone ; dissolve the 
scraped su^ar in two glasses of water, and, 
with the juice of four lemons, pass it through 
a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the 
sugar, and then put a fourth of it into .a 
small preserving pan; boil it to caramel 
height, to color the jelly; mix this, the 
fi*uit, die sirup, and an ounce of isinglass 
togetlier, and finish in the usual way. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some 
ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to 
caramel height; place them round the in- 



CHE 



270 



CH£ 



•ide of a diflh; then cot more ratafia cakes 
into iqaares, dip them abo into raigRr, and 
pile them corner-ways on the row, and so 
on for two or three stories high. Line the 
inside with wafer^iaper, and fill it with 
spouse biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- 
monos, or some made cream; put trifle 
over that, and garnish the froth with rose- 
leaves, colored comfits, or caramel 8iq;ar 
thrown lightly over the top. 

CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the finest and ripest chories, leave on half 
the stalks, and put them into very cold vra- 
ter. In about bilf an hour take them out, 
and drain them on a sieve; weigh them, 
and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter 
of a pound of sugar ; when you have clarified 
and boiled it to grand perle, put in the 
fruit, boil them up two or three times, bir- 
ring them gently with a skimmer ; then take 
them firom the fire carefuHy, and put the 
cherries into bottles or glass jars; when 
filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an 
ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put 
to the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in 
the proportion of a pint and a half to a 
pound of fimit); mi^ them together well, 
and pour them on the cherries. In two 
months time taste them, and if sufficiently 
flavored, take out the cloves and cinnamon. 
Cover the jars or bottles close. . 

CHERRIES, TO CANDY. The fruit 
must be gathered before it is ripe; prick 
and stone them; boil clarified sugar, and 
pour it over them. 

CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and 
stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, 
bruise, and set them on (he fire with a little 
water, and half a pound of sugar. When 
the}' have boiled, pass them through a hair 
sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful 
of tlie kernels, put them in a basin with the 
juice of iwo lemons. Add to the cherries a 
pound of sugar au petit lisse, and strain on 
them the lemon-juice and kernels ; mix the 
whole together, and put it in a sahotierty 
with pounded ice. Work the cherries up 
with it well, until it has set, ihen place it in 
glasses. 

CHERRY ICE CREAM. Take half a 
pound of preserved cherries, pound them, 
llbnes and all ; put them into a basin, with 
one gill of sirup, the Juice of a lemon, and a 
pint of cream, pass it throngh a sieve, and 
fi-eeze it according to custom. 

CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose 
the ripest, largest, best red colored cherries, 
you can meet with, and take of them double 
the weight of the sugar you intend to use; 



•tone and tail; and then pot them oo a 
gentle fire, and keep stirring them till re- 
duced to half. Clarify and boil yoor sugar 
to petU canty then add the frait to it, and 
stir it until you can see the bottom of the 
pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently <ione, 
and may be put into pots. 

CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take three 
pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half 
<^ Bi^ar, and a pound of cherries ; pound 
the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the 
sugar, boiled to petit hcule; then having 
stoned, well bruised, and squeezed oat the 
juice of the cherries, add it to tlie rest, stir 
It well, place it on hot adies, stirring con- 
stantly until the paste is properly fione; 
then finish it in the usual way, (See 
Marchpane.) Strawberries, roa^ber- 
ries, currants, or any other fixtit may be 
used in the same way. 

CHERRY RATAFIA. CniA ten 
pounds of cherries, and pot than into a jar 
with a quart of brandy ; cover the jar ckiee, 
and infiiise the cherries for five or six days ; 
at the md of that time put the firuit into a 
cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil 
five pounds of fine currants, with three pounds 
of sugar, and press out the juice as you did 
that of the cherries; mix the two juices, 
measure them, and for every pint aJlow a 
pint of brandy. Add a pound of the koneb 
of the cherry-stones, half a pound of corian- 
der, a little mace, some cloves and cinna- 
mon, all well poundied, put them into a jar, 
and pour the liquor over them; cover it 
close and let it infuse for six weeks, after 
which, pass xbe whole through a jelly-bag, 
and bottle it ; cork it carefully. 

CHERRIES, SIRUP OP. The beat 
cherried for this purpose are the black soar 
ones ; take out uie stones and express the 
juice into an eanhen pan, where it must 
stand in a coOl place for twenty-four hours 
to clear: at the end of that time pour the 
juice gentiv into a pan, and add to it, for 
each pouna of juice, two pounds of crushed 
sugar, and two drachmis of cinnamon, pre- 
viously infiised in a glass of water, wrap the 
cinnamon in a piece of linen, and pot it with 
the water iiito your pan; boil aQ togetb^ 
for half an hour, skimming it carduUy. 
When sufficiently done take out the cinna- 
mon; strain the sirup till quite clear, and 
when cold bottle it. 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (1) * 

Roast chestnuts as for the table ; take on 
the skins ; dip each in the whites of eggs 
beaten, and then roll them in powder-siiear; 
lay them separately on paper to dry, m a 
moderate oven ; tti^ may be cut int» dif* 



J 



CHE 



271 



CHO 



ferent forma if you think proper, and glazed 
either white or brown. . 

CHESTNUTS IN CARAMEL. (2) 
Cut Bome osier rodn or reeda into pieces 
about two or three inches long, and on the 
point of each put a roasted and skinned 
chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh but- 
ter, (about tlie size of a nut), and rub it 
with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate 
or marble slab, taking care to rub every 
part well. Then liaving boiled some clari- 
fied sugar to caramel height; take a piece 
of the osier, with a chestnut on the end, in 
each hand, and dip them in liie sugar, twist- 
ing them round repeatedly, that tlie sugar 
may adhere equally about the chestnut till 
it begins to cool, then lay them on the but- 
tered slab, and dip in two more, proceed- 
ing as above ; wlien all are done and cold, 
take out the osier twigs, and wrap each 
chestnut in paper, with a device if you 
think proper. Tliese chestnuts make a de- 
licious sweetmeat, but tliey should be eaten 
tlie day ou which tliey are made. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (1) Take 
the outer skin from about a htuidred 
chestnuts, and tlien put them into a sauce- 
pan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and 
three handfuls of bran ; put them on tlie tire 
and blanch them: as soon as a pin will go 
into diem easily, they are sufficiently done ; 
rub off the second skin, and tlirow them 
into cold water, with the juice of a lemon. 
Clarify and boil a |)ound and a half of sugar 
to peUl lisae, and having drained your 
chestnuts, put tlieni ^nto tlie sugdr with the 
juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass uf 
orange-flower water; put these on die Are 
for a shoit lime, but not to let them boil : 
tlien take tliem off and set them by. The 
next day drain die chestnuts, and boil up 
the sirup four times ; then add more sugar, 
and having boiled it to souffle, put in the 
chestnuts ; blanch diem instantly afterwards, 
and put them into compotiers. 

CHESTNUT COMPOTE. (2) Roast 
your chestnuts as for die dessert, and 
when they are peeled and skinned, put them 
into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, and half a glass of water; let 
them simmer for a quarter of an houi*; 
squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when 
ready to serve, strew powder-eugar over 
them. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (1) Pound 
twenty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, 
wiUi a little milk ; dien put the paste so made 
into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, 
half a pint of milk , two oun(%8 of butter, and 
four ounces uf powder-sugar; wlien.it has 

23* 



boiled a little while, strain it, put it info 
a dish, or glass for table, and let it cool. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. (2) Roast, and 
then pound a quarter of a hundred of chest- 
nuts, wiUi a small quantity of milk ; to this 
add the yolks of two ens, a pint of milk, 
a quarter of a pound ot powder-sugar, and 
about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- 
gether for some minutes, then strain it, and 
set it by to cool. 

CHESTNUT CUSTARD. Take three 
puun<^ of well roasted chestnuts, removing 
such parts as were colored by the fire, ana 
pound dteni with a pound of fresh butter; 
when a smooth paste, a<]d Uiree-quarters of 
a pound of powder-sugar, the yolks of 
twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of whipped cream, the whites 
whip|)ed firm, and finish the custai'd as di- 
rected. 

CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a mar- 
malade by boiling chestnuts in water, and 
rubbing them through a sieve, then pound 
them, and to three-quarters of a pound of 
this, add a quarter of a pound of any other 
fiuit marmalade; mix Uiem well up with an 
equal weight of sugar boiled to grand 
plume; put it into your moulds and bake ic 
as cherry, or any uUier paste. 

CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 

an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half 
an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it 
by till cold, and theu add to it an egg well 
beaten. With this, make four ounces of 
flour into a vei^ stiff paste ; roll it out as 
thin as possible, and lay it in 'a set of tins 
the form of a temple, and bake them in a 
slow oven. When cold, take die paste 
from the tins, and join each piece togedier 
according to the proper forms, with isin- 
glass and water. The lower part, of 
course, ought to be stronger than the top, 
in order that it may sustain the weight of 
the whole. The pieces also must be cut 
as exact as possible to the shape of the 
tins. 

CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take a 
pound of chocolate finely grated, and a 
pound and a half of the best su^ar, finely 
sifted ; soak some giun-dragon in orange- 
flower water, and work them into what 
form you please; the paste must be stiff; 
dry tliem in a stove, x ou may write de* 
vices on paper, roll them up, and put them 
in the middle. 

CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put a 
quarter uf a pound of chocolate over a fire, 
to dissolve it; and having boifed two pbuodi 



BIS 



262 



BIS 



■IMread your paite, and dry them as bar^ 
btrry wttferu, 

BERGAMOT WATER. To die rinds 
of diree beiigamots, put a gallon of proof 
spirit, and two quarts of water ; draw off 
one gallon by the bain marie, and sweeten 
with sugar. 

BERGAMOT WATER. Take three 
gills of simp, the juice of six lemons, and 
when diluted suflSciently wiUi water, add 
a tea-«poonful of essence of bergamot. 
Strain it tlirough a fine sieve for use. 

BERGAMOT WATER ICE. Stir 
together the juice of three lemons, two gills 
of sirup, half a pint of water, and half a 
tea-spoonfiil of essence of bergamot, strain 
and n^eeze it. 

BETONY, CONSERVE OF. Take 

a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf su- 
gar, bent them in a stone mortar ; boil the 
sugar with two quarts of betony water to 
the diickness of a sirup, then mix them to- 
gether by little and little, over a gentle 
nre, make it into a CQjiserve, and keep it in 
glasses. 

BISCUITS. Ijfxy the rind of a lemon 
in boiling water, till it lie tender ; take half 
a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch tiicm 
in cold water, and two ounces of gum-drng- 
on, which soak in fair water; tbf.n pound 
the almonds, putting in as you pound, the 
whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound 
the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and 
put the gum and die lemon into the almonds, 
and mix them well together; then beat a 
pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- 
monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add 
two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it 
with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, 
and lay them upon white papers, and set 
them in the oven. 

BISCUITS IN CASES. Prepare 
your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, 
and fill some little round or square cases 
with it. Tlien with the rolling pin crush 
some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and 
strew it over your biscuits, which place on 
a copper plate, and when tlie sugar begins 
to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the 
mouth of which put a shovel fiill of burning 
coals to crystallize the sugar; and when that 
assumes the appearance of little pearls, re- 
inove the coals and close the oven. These 
oiscnits will require firom twenty to twenty- 
five minutes baking. 

BISCUITS ICED Beat up the white 
of eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with a 



pnond (tf fine powdered sogar^ for two hoars 
Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried 
sifted flour ; wh^a the oven is ready aod 
your plates buttered, mix the flour as quick 
as poraible with the ^gs, &c., and lay the 
biscuits on the plates^; you may add a little 
musk and ambergris. Sake in a quick ovoo. 

BISCUIT, ITALIAN. Bake a biscuit, 
made like Iced biecuit, in a plain, round 
mould ; cot it across, in slices an inch 
thick ; pour on each slice a spoonfiil of true 
maraschino, and when they have imbibed 
this, place them in their proper form, and 
mask the v^ole, either with white of egg and 
sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with 
apricot marmalade, pn which strew pounded 
macaroons. 

BISCUITS OF ITALIAN WATER. 

Whisk up six es^, and an equal weight of 
powder-sugar, for half an hour. Take six 
more eggs and tlieir weight of flour, and mix 
all together, and lay this mixture on paper, in 
cakes the eighth of an inch tliick, and about 
two inches diameter ; lay them quite flat, 
and do not let them touch. The oven should 
be hot ; five minutes will bake them. When 
cold, wet the under side of the paper, aod 
they will then remove easily. 



^§K^ 



BISCUITS, JUDGES. Break six 
into a basin, and whisk them well 
fur five minutes, add half a pound of pow- 
der-sugar, and whisk again for ten minutCB 
longer; put some caraway-seeds and half 
a pound of dry sifted flour ; mix them all 
together with a wooden spoon. Drop them 
on paper about the size of a crown-piece, 
and thick in the middle ; sift sugar over, 
and bake them in a brick oven. Take 
them oft* the paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, LIGHT. Take ten em, 
put the yolks of five in a pan with a few 
crisped orange-flowers, the peel of a green 
lemon, boUi shred fine, ana three-quartos 
of a pound of fine sn^ar ; beat the whole 
together till the sugar is dissolved and well 
mixed with the ^gs. Beat the ten whites 
to a froth, and and to the sugar, stir in 
lightly, and by degrees, six ounces of flour, 
put tnem into buttered moulds, powdering 
them with fine sugar, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. 

BISCUITS, MANQUES. Put into an 
earthen pan half a pound of powder-sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter 
of a pound of butler, the same of poimded 
almonds, a little salt, and some orange- 
flower water, six yolks, and two wmie 
es^ ; beat up these ingredients well ; whip 
toie six whites, and mix them graduRUj 



i 



BIS 



2M 



BIS 



With die abonre erepttntioo ; oudce a paper 
Dase, battet and poor in it yoar biscuit 
fMnte and bake it. Meanwhile cut some 
almonds into either dice or slips, mix them 
with some powder-sugar and white of ^g ; 
Whea the biscuit tnanquea is about three 
parts d(Aie» dturtx and cover it with this 
laitter-aiixture j tken replace it in (he oven 
And finirii bakii^. As soon as k is donfe» 
take it out and cut it into whatever forms 
yoor imcy may dictate* 

BISCUITS, MARBLED. Makati^ren- 
tr^four cgfs, a pound of powdernsagar, and 
dnree-qaartera of a pound of dried and sifted 
Hoar, into a biscuit paste, as directed for 
Spoon Bii9etUt9; then beat four ounces 
of dissolved cboeolale tn an earthen pan, 
and add to it a third of the paste; when it 
n well mrfeed, divide it in Imlf, and to on^ 
ha)f mix a quarts of the biscait-paste, which 
will time that poiftioB a tight chocolate ool- 
tnr. After tbiS) knix togewer some vegeta- 
Me red smi infiuion nf saffix>n to odor half 
ike remaimBg paste onmge; then divide 
ikal again» and mix the knt quarter with 
half the ^mt;6^fe*cot6ir, thus your paste will 
he t;(riored with tw« ahades of chocolate 
and two of tirangew 

Make twc paper easte, eaeh eight inch- 
as eqittre and three hiffh, pocr iMo one of 
tbeise a h^cge epoonni of Ihe chocolale- 
paate, and wiien k has spread over the bot- 
tmfe oCthe case, boor in one ef the orange- 
veiored, tm whioi another of the chocolate, 
nnd eo on^ akemalely, ontfl the caae is half 
Mi ; tiiekk efxriidLle it with fionr, and put it 
into a slow evta for thjw&quarters of an 
Wir* Put ^ remainder of your biscuit- 
paste (both colors) into a pan and stir them 
together with a spoon till the whole is 
Tented, crtr clouded with the tlvo Colors ; pour 
it into the other case, sprinkle it with flour 
and bake like the former; when quite cold, 
ciat th«n hto slices abont two indies thick, 
balfof which should be broken, and the other 
half out in pieces of an equal size, lay them 
OB a baking^plate, and dry them in the oven. 
These are generally used to m&ke the rocks 
n omaittentat pastry, and nay be ccdored 
with the usual materials, according to your 

BISCUITS^ BfARCHPANE. Beat a 
poMid of sweet almonds to a very fine 
pai^ moisten them with water, then put 
them and a pound of powder-sugar into a 
saucepan, over a clear but not fierce char- 
coal fire, stirring constantly, till the paste 
leaves adhere together; put it cm a fioured 
alab, and work it well with your hands for 
some tii^e, then roH small pieces of it about 
tiiree inches long and half the thickness of 
yanr little finger» join the ends of each and 



«^e thett into round rings, lay theiti on ca 
aieve in a dry warm pbce for two or thre^ 
days. Wiieh wanted, mix some powclef^ 
sugar with the whites of eight eg^, aiKl 
beat them with a wooden spoon in eacb 
hand ; add a cup of oranse-flower water* 
Put your rings into tliis icing, and cover 
them completely; lay them on a sheet of 
paper and bake in a slow oven until the 
icing sets and they begin to change color. 
Do not remove them from the paper tiH cold . 

BISCUITS, MILLEFRUIT. Take 
preserved orange and lemon-peel, a quar- 
ter of a pound of eadi, six ounces of ai^l- 
ica, ^ same of sweet, and one ounce of 
bitter aJmonds ; cut all the above ingredients 
into pieces half an inch long and a quarter 
wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, 
tuf^r and orange-fiower water ; put the al- 
monds, &:c. into this, and having paper on 
your btdLing-tin, lay the <»kes on it, of 
whatever size you please; then with a hair 
pencil touch them here and there with a 
little cochhieal. Bake them» but not in toa 
hot an oven. 

BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the 
Weight of six eggs in powder-sugar, and 
mix it with the yolks and a little pounded 
einnamon ; whisk the whites to a firm froth, 
and stir them lightly into the yolks; add 
(bur vrbole eg|[8, and their Mreight of dry 
iifted flour, mix them well together; take 
thie mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about 
the size of a half-crown piece on paper, 
join two ti^ther with the spoon, and when 
your paper is full, sprinkle powd»*-Bugar 
over and Imke them ; a few minutes will do 
them. Blemote them from the paper while 
hot and put the two undersides tog^ier. 

BISCUITS, PRINCESS AMELIA. 
Put die whites of twdve eggs into an earth- 
en pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and 
add to them eiglit ounces of double refified 
sugar, pounded and sifted ; having mixed 
them, put in three ounces of flour, and three 
of powder-sugar silted, the grated rind of 
one or two lemons and half a cofiee cup of 
orai»e^ower watei*, ^ir them well with a 
wooden spoon, but tsike care not to spoil the 
snow : drop them on paper of a Jai'ger size 
than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to 
a dear brown in a moderate oven* Take 
them fivm tlie paper while hot. 

BISCUITS, SAVOY. Whip twelve 
whites of eggs lo a snow; beat the yolks 
with a pound and a quarter of powder-eugar, 
mix them together, with tbree-quarters of a 
pound <^ flour and the grated rind of a lem- 
on, into a paste, rob your mould witli melted 
butter, and bake it. 



CHO 



272 



CHO 



iff Rigar to forte perie, put a spoonful or 
two into the chocolate ; utir it till it forms a 
thin paste, and then |jnur it on the suj^ar, 
and boil bolh together to caramel. In ibe 
meantime melt a little butter, skim, and 

Sur it off* clear into a lasin ; take a spoon- 
of it, and rub it with your hand over a 
mari)te slab or table: on this pour tlie choco- 
late and sugar ; then take two ends of a 
sword-blade, (one in each hand), and press 
lines an inch apai*t all down it ; cross them 
in like manner, so as to mark the su^ in 
small squares all over ; doing it as auick as 
possible, lest tlie sugar should cool before 
vou have done ; then pass the sword-blade 
between tlie marble and the sugar ; lay un- 
der the latter sheets of paper ; and when 
cold, break it into pieces according to the 
marks, and wrap each square in paper. 

CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take two 
ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a 
little warm water over tlie fira ; when it is 
dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it 
upon a pound of maaae pain or sweet 
paste, to which add some cinnamon or va- 
nilla at discretion ; mix the whole well to- 
gether; then spread it over some wafer 
shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
If die paste does not appear deep colored 
enough, you may color it with bolue Ar- 
mentcufftt 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (1) Dis- 
solve two ounces of good chocolate in a 
little water, put it into a skillet with half a 
pound of sugar boiled to perle ; keep the 
sugar stirring, and when it boib put the 
conserve into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. (2) Dis- 
solve a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; 
boil a pound of sugar to the premiere 
plumCy put your chocolate into it, stirring 
it welt to mix it ; serve it whilst it is warm. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take one 
pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a 
pewter sheet or plute, and put it in the 
ovdh just to warm the chocolate ; then pot 
it into "a copper stewpan, with three- 
quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; 
mix it well over the fire, take it off, and 
roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, 
put them on white paiier, and when tliey 
are all on, take the sheet of paper by each 
comer, and lift it up and down so that the 

Caper may touch the table each time, and 
y tliat means you will see the dro{)6 come 
quite fat, about the size of a sixpence ; pnt 
some 8U«far nonpareils over them, an 1 cover 
all that are on the paper, then shake them 
off, and you will s^^'e all tile chocolate urwj>a : 



are covered with the sugar aoarareils; let 
them stand till cold> and they will come tM 
well, and Qicn put them in a box papered. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (1) 

Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it over 
tlie fire in a small pan ; when mehed poor 
it into tliat in which you are to make yoor 
cream; break your yolks of e^a into it, 
(four eggs to every pint of cream) add some 
pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stirring ooa> 
tinually; then add your cream by little and 
little, stirring and turning it till the whole 
is mixed properly together; then ael yoar 
pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a 
wooden spoon till you see your oompositioa 
is near boiling, then take it off immediate* 
ly, for, from the moment yoa set your com- 
position over the fire till that it oflers to 
boil, it has sufficient time to incorporate ' 
well and thicken sufficiently, witliout need 
of boiling; and should you let it boil, yoa 
would risk the turning your cream into 
whey, on account of tlie yolks of egga, which 
would do too much. Take great care 
likewise yoar cream is fresh and sweet« 
for otherwise as soon as it is waim it will 
turn to curds and wliey ; therefore, be care- 
ful, stir it continually, from the time you 
set it on the fire till you take it off; then 
put it in the sabotiere to make it congeal 
after tlie usual manner. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. (2) 
Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on 
a slow fire; when properly done, uiix it 
with a pint of cream, tliree yolks uf new 
laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugnr. 

CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 
three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and 
mix with it half a gill of simp, and half a 
pint of water ; mix it well, and freeze it 
diick. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Patx 

a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tin*' 
plate over a coal fire, and when it is dis-i 
solved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoon- 
ful or two of sweet almona paste, made as 
for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pour 
it upon the remainder of the almond paste, 
in which you have mixed a tea-«ipoonful of 
powdered cinnamon or vanilla,' or both: 
beat them togetlier well in a mortar, lay 
them on paper, and bake them for three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AxMOUR, 

FiMT four bottles of brandy, take one pound 
of tlie I)e8t chu«olute, cut in small hu» ; a 
little salt, two cloved, and a little cinna- 
in«m ; you ituvA infuse ail in the brandy, with 
two bullies and liitif a pipt of water, with 



i 



CIN 



273 



CIN 



wliitM of eggs, and filter it throogh the pa- 
per. Yoa must be carefu] not to take more 
than two bottles from every (bur, except 
from ibe cinnamon, from which you are to 
take as mudi as you can get. 

^ CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a 
little chocolate, which put in a pan over the 
fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon ; when 
it is melted, take half a pound of loaf su- 

far, pounded in a mortar and sitled, wlilch 
issolve in a little clear water. When that 
is done, put in your chocolate; if you find 
the paste too thick, add a little water, 
enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity 
(bat you may take it up on a knife; then 
take half a uieet of ptiper, and cover it with 
little round and fiat drops, which we call 
piutiU, of the size of a sixpence; let them 
diT naturally in a ci:q)board ; and when dry, 
take them oflf from the paper, and put them 
in boxes. 

CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. 
Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little 
water till it is quite dissolved and thick; 
eift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a 
mortar with a quarter-part of whites of 
eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a 
pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by de- 
grees, and addmg either more or less sugar, 
according as the paste is malleable; it must 
be pretty firm ; form it into what fiowei's oi^ 
designs you please, as slieils, lozenges, any 
kind of corn or beans, &c, 

CHOCOLATE PETIT PAINS. These 
are made in the same way as Petitn Pains 
a la Duchesse (see that article), but with- 
out the dorure. Wlien cold fill them witli 
a cream patisaiere, mixed with two ounces 
of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with 
sugar, flavored widi vanilla ; then put three 
ounces t>f sifted si^r, the same of choco- 
late, and half the white of an egg into a 
pan; stir these ingredients with a silver 
spoon until you have a smooth transparent 
glaze, with which mask the top and sides 
of the petUs pains, spreading it equally 
with the blade of a knife. 

CHOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. 

Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it 
into a little warm water, put it on the fire, 
and when quite dissolved, mix it with a 
pound of marchpane paste, to which may be 
added vanilla or cinnamon ; stir it up well, 
and then spread it (hi wafer-pa[)er in what 
£>rm8 yon please, and bake them in "a mod- 
erate oven. If die sweetmeats be not suffiw 
ciently dark colored, add a^ little bol-ammo- 
niac. 

CINNAMON CAKES. Whisk up 



half a doten eggs widi three table-spomifidi 
of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted 
sugar, a dessert-^poonfiil of powdered ciuna* 
mon, and a «ufficjent quantity of flour to 
make it into a paste; roH it out thin, and 
cut it into whatever forms your fiiiicy may 
dictate, j^Iace them on paper, and bake 
them. When done, remove them from the 
paper. Keep them dry. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (1) Soak cin- 
namon in water for four and twenty hours, 
and then cut it into pieces about an inch 
lone ; prepare some si^r to grand lisai^ 
and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain 
and dry it in a stove to the proper consis- 
tence; then put it in the moulds with sugar 
boiled to soi^ffU, and when half cold, dry 
it. Before the candy is removed from the 
moulds, tliey should be laid on one side for 
some time. Keep them in paper in a dry 
place. 

CINNAMON CANDIED. (2) Cut 

some cinnamon into small sticks df about aa 
inch or an inch and a half long; then put 
them into thin sugar, and boil them as it 
were in a sirup. Then take off the pan, 
and set it by for five or six hours to soak, 
take them out and lay tliem on a wire-grate, 
dry them thoroughly in the stpve; after- 
wards put them in order in tin moulds 
upon little grates made for the purpose, and 
set into the moulds, so tliat there may be 
three rows set one alx>ve anotlier, separated 
by those grates. In the meantime, boil su- 
gar till it is blown, and pour it into your 
mould, so tliat some of it may lie upon the 
uppermost grate ; th^n set them in the stove 
with a covered fii'e, and let them stand all 
night ; the nex^ morning take notice whether 
the cinnamon be well coagulated ; turn the 
mould upside down, and set it in the stove 
again, with a plate underneath ; and when it 
is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks 
of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and 
little, gently ; then lay tliem npon a sieve, 
set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. 

CINNAMON, CONSERVE OP. 
Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it 
with a little clarified sugar, or sirup of mal- 
lows; boil two pounds of sugar to petit 
caaak, throw in the cinnamon, stir it well, 
and then take it from the fire, and when the 
sugar begins to whiten, pour tlie conserve 
into cases or moulds, and dry it aa usual. 

aNNAMON, DRAGEES OR SU- 
GA^D. Soak a quarter of a pound of 
the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve lioura 
in water to soflen it ; at the end of that time, 
cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve in^ a 
warm place (or some day* Wlien qoiflB 



cm 



274 



CIT 



oard and dry, boil fome fine wagar to the 
degree grand perle; have read^ a quantity 
of finoi powder, and proceed in the same 
manner as in doing Almond Drageea, 
until the cinnamon sticks are of the proper 
thickneM ; tlioee which are to be twisted or 
curled, should not be so thick as the others. 
Be equally particolar in removing the sugar, 
that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in 
making Almond Dragtet. 

CINNAMON DRAGEES, COMMON. 
Infuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, 
in as mocn water as will cover it; the next 
day put the infiision into a mortar, and stir 
it well with a pestle, and the longer it is 
stirred the whiter it becomes; in rather 
more than a quarter of an hour, add to it 
the caked sugar which was removed fnnn 
the preserving-pan, and which must be well 
pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder- 
sugar, a spoonHiI of cinnamon powder, and 
by degrees two or three pounds of flour; 
moisten the whole occasionally with water ; 
when the paste is of a proper consistenqe, 
place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it 
well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, 
not thicker than the eighth of an inch, and 
then cut it into slips of the same size as the 
cinnamon (see above,) put them on paper 
or a sieve in a warm place for some days, 
llien boil pome common sugar to ptrle, 
and sugar the slips of paste as above direct- 
ed ; instead of the fine powder, flour is suffi- 
cient, until the last two layers, when the 
powder may be used to give Qicm whiteness. 
VVlien of the requisite size, lay them on 
sieves to dry. In a few days thei'e may be 
curled, and colored, which is done in the 
same manner as coriander seeds. Observe, 
fine sugared cinnamon is always white. 

CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This 
is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in 
highly rectif^d spirits of wine, in the pro- 
portion of half a drachm of the former to an 
ounce of the latter, 

CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve 
half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of 
water, and strain it through a lawn sieve 
into a roottar, and add to it a tea-qxx)nful 
of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient 
quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of 
a proper consistence ; form into such figui'es 
as you may foncy, and dry them in a stove. 
Keep them in a dry pbce. 

CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 
a pound of marchpane paste, and dilute 
it with as many whites of eggs as will 
make it spread easily with a knife ; add to 
this, a spoonful or two of prepared hoU-am' 
monictc, which will give it a fine i%d tinge> 



and half an oance of cinnainoii-powder* 
When aD these ingredients are well mixed, 
cut some wafer-paper into such fbnns as yoa 
may think proper, and lay on them the paste 
about the tbinkness of the eiefath of an inch; 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. Whoi done, tbey may be 
finished in the following manner: — Boil 
some sugar in oranse-flower water, to fii 
phone, and as you tsAe the sweetmeats fixm 
the oven; dip a hair-pencil into the sirup, 
and brush them over; this dries almost im- 
mediately, and considerably improves the 
look of them. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. Poond and 
sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with ao 
equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the 
same of flour, half an ounce of powdered 
cinnamon, and a small egg ; stir these op id 
an earthenware vessel, with a sufllcioit 
quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but 
not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate 
quite hut, rub it well with batter, then lay 
on it a spoonful of the paste; fey it, ani^ 
when brown on both sides, roll it, still over 
the hot iron, round a smalf stick; do this 
until ail the paste is used. 

CINNAMONUM. Take a quarter of 
a pound of cinnamon, two drachms of mace, 
and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise 
them well, and then put them into three 
quarts of the best brandy; let the infusion 
stand fer some days before you distil it; 
dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints 
and a half of water ; mix this sirup with the 
liqueur, and then strain them. This is 
sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. 

CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrons 
very tliin and narrow, and throw them into 
water; tliese are called faggots; then cot 
the citron into slices of auv thickness yoa 
think proper ; take out the inner part with 
great care, so as to leave only the white 
rin?, and put them with the fag^^ots into 
boiling water; when tender, dram than. 
Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar 
to souffle; then put in tlie rings, and boil 
them together. Take it firom the fire, and 
when a little cool, rub the suptr against the 
side of the pre.--erving-pan with the back of 
a spoon ; as soon as it becomes white, take 
out the rings with a fork very carefully, one 
by one, and lay them on a wire-grate to 
drain : boil and proceed with tlie feggota ia 
a similar way; when token out, cut them 
into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, 
and lay them also on the wire to drain. 

CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ends 
of the citronf), take out the middle, with aH 
tlie seeds; boil them in some water; and 



CIT 



275 



cor 



^ifhea quite tender, take tliem from the fire, 
and throw them into cold water a momeet; 
thai, haTing pressed them in a cloth to get 
the water out, poand and sift them. To 
«verT quarter of a pound of thie marmalade 
put half a pound of clarified augur; simmer 
them together, stirring constantly until well 
mixed ; then put them into moulds, and place 
them in a stove to dry. 

CITRON WHITE PRESERVED. 
Lay some white citrons, cat into pieces, in 
«a1t and water for four or five hours; then, 
baving waslied them 'in cold water, boil 
them; when tender, drain, and lav them 
into as mwk clarified sugar as will cover 
them. The next day drain off the sirup, 
and boil it; when quite smoodi and cold, 
pour it on the citrons ; let .them stand twen- 
ty'fbur homis; then boil the sirup again, 
and put in the citrons. The third day, 
boil both together, and pat them into moulds 
.to candy. 

CITRON PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, 
flo that the inside may take the sugar as 
well as the outside, and pot them over the 
fire in some water; whenever they are near 
iwiling, put cold water to them. As soon 
as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, 
and throw them into ooid water. They 
must then he put on the fire again, in the 
«ame water, and boiled cently until tender; 
4bea take then out, and pnt them in cold 
water. After this, boil them seven or ei^t 
times in clarified sugar; pour the whole 
into an earthen pan, and let it «tand. The 
next day drain the fruit, and boil up the 
^irup twenty or thirty times; add a little 
jnore sugar, and pour it over the citrons; 
do this for three eaccessive days, increasing 
the degree to v^ich you boil the augar daily, 
ao that at the last boiling the degree may 
he au perU. The fruit may then be put 
into pots. 

To preserve them dry, they must be done 
exactly the same; only, instead of putting 
the fruit into pots, they should be dried oa 
sieves in a stove. With the remaining sa- 
^ar the citrons may be glazed. 

CITRON RATAFIA. Pare seven or 
«ight citrons very thin; cut the peel into 
innall pieces, and put them into a jar, with 
three pints of brandy, and let them infuse 
ior three weeks; then add to this a pound 
;of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and 
well skimmed; let it stand twdve or fiteee 
days longer, when it may be bottled. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (1) Put into 
a china bowl alternate lavers of fine i>owder- 
augar, and citron, pared, and cut in veiy 



thin slices, and let them stand till the next 
day; then stram off the sirup, and clarify it 
over a gentle fire. 

CITRON, SIRUP OF. (2) Put tlw 
rinds of three citrons into an earthen ves- 
sel, and strain on them the juice; to this 
put a little water; pour the mixture into a 
oasin in which is four pounds of clarified 
sugar, boiled to fort botdet. Place tins 
basin in a large saucepan, half filled with 
water, over the fire ; stir the contents of 
the basin freauently ; and when the sugar is 
entirely dissolved, and the sirup quite clear, 
take the saucepan from the fire, and let it 
cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bot- 
tled. 

CITRONNELLE RATAFIA. For 

two quarts of the best brandy, take the 
xe»te» or rinds of aTdoxea fine sound lem- 
ons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an 
ounce of coriander, and two pounds of su- 
^r, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; 
infuse the whole for a month, then strain 
and bottle it. 

CLOVES, OIL OF. This is maSe u 
the same mannor as cinnamonum; the quanti- 
ties are, an ounce of cloves to diree quarts 
of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dis- 
solved in four pints of water. 

CLOVE PASTILS. Are made like 
those of cinnamon. The proportions are 
six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. 

CLOVES, SIRUP OF. Put a auarter 
of a pound of doves, and a quart of Doilinr 
water into a stewpan, cover it close, and 
boil them gently for half an hour; drain the 
cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two 
pounds of sugar ; beat up two eggs in a little 
cold water, add them to the above, and sim- 
mer the whole I ill it becomes a strong sirup. 
When cokl, bottle it. 

COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a 
pint of oofiee made with water; put in it a 
pound of loaf-sivar ; set it on the fire and 
boil it to a high degree ; then add a fiiU pint 
of double cream, and let it lx>il again, keep- 
ing continually stirring till it comes to cara- 
mel height; to ,know when it is come to 
that point, you must have a basin of water 
by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it 
quidily in your sugar, then in the water 
again, to remove the sugar, which will have 
stuck to it ; take a bit of it in your teeth; 
if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it 
is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, 
which must/ be rubbed before with a little 
butter, or it will stick to the plate; then 
spread it with a rolling pin; (observe, the 



CON 



276 



CRE 



rolliiig pin miMt likewise be nibbed with 
butter, lor fear it should stick;) when it is 
warm, you may cot tt into Ktlle squares, lo- 
xeiiges, or any other shaped pastilles, and 
draw a few strokes over toem with a knife. 

COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and 
boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; 
take the sugar off the fire, and put into it 
one cup ofcoflee ; stir it about until it comes 
to the sixth degree, that the conserre may 
take the sugar and dry. 

COFFEE EGGS. Make some good 
strong coffee; let it rest to clear as usual, 
and sweeten it with sugar acccMrding to dis- 
cretion; beat up six yolks of ^^» with 
about four cups of coflfee, and sin it; pour 
this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or 
of any othor, (do not fill them quite,) and 
bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or 
with a brazing-pan; cover between two 
lires. They are made aAa* this manner, in 
tlie sliape of any fruits or birds, if you have 
proper moulds, either of copper or china, 
&c. 

COLTSFOOT, SIRUP OF. Take of 
coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, 
hysstip one ounce, Hquorioe^root mie ounce; 
boil them in two quarts of spring water till 
one-fourth is consumed; then strain it, and 
put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder- 
sugar; clariiy it with the whites of eggs, 
and boil it ttU it is nearly as thick as 
honey. 

CONSERVES, DRIED. For all sorts 
of conserves, the sugar should be prepared 
to the ninth degree, according to the quan- 
tity wanted ; mey are all made much after 
the same manner, the only diflference being 
m the quantity of fiirits proposed. Con- 
serves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat 
marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked 
pretty dry over a sbw fire ; use about half 
a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a 
quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade ; 
take the sugar off the fire to work them 
well t(^ther; warm the whole for a mo- 
ment, and pour it into paper cases made for 
tibe purpose; when it is cool it may be cut 
into cakes of what size you please. 

CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. 
Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and 
raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, 
and three pounds of sugar. Bruise yomr 
fruit, and having strained off the juice, put 
It in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring 
It till reduced to half Dissolve the sugar, 
■kim, and boil it to ccuBe; take it from the 
fire while you put in the juice, then put it 
QD again, and give it one boil» take it off> 



and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, wbeo 
the conserve may be poured into idouIcIb. 

CONSERVES, HARD IN MOULDS. 
These are made in the same manna* as 
other conserves, except that they are com- 
posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic w»* 
ter; and may be colored like pastik. 

CORIANDER IHIAGEES. Take any 
quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the 
tossing-pan over tlie fire, and let them warm ; 
when they are warm throw in about half a 
glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are 
dry ; have cnrified sugar, which boil in an- 
other pan; then when the corianders are 
dry, add a little gum to them, and do the 
seme again till tliey are dry, and continue 
so doing till you see the corianders are covo 
ered to the size you want to have tbem; 
when that is done, take the corianders out 
fixnn the pan, wash them well, and pot them 
in again, and stir tbem welt till they are all 
warm ; tlien take your clarified sugai*, whidi 
you have previously boiled to the first de- 
gree ; when tiiis is done, put it in an instru- 
ment of copper, made on purpose for the 
operation, and at the bottom of which there 
is a little hole; hang it up by a packthread 
string, that the sugar may fell from about a 
yard heiglit into the pan where the ccMrian^ 
ders are ; while the sugar fells into your pan 
keep stirring^ well your dragees till you see 
they are well pearled over, or nN^h and 
grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take 
them out, and place them in the stove to 
finish drying. 

CORIANDER SUGARED. These 
seeds are sugued in the same manoer as 
sugared almonds. 

CREAM, bain-marie. Mix op 
whatever ingredient of which the cream 
is to be made, wkh ^gs and sugar ; for the 
proportions, see the respective articles; 
strain them through a fine sieve, and poor 
the preparation into a mould Kglitly buttered 
within side. Put this mould into a larse 
saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boil- 
ing water to reach within an inch of the 
mould; place the saucepan on hot ashes* 
cover it, and place hot coals on the lid ; 
renew the fire underneath occasionally, so 
as to keep the water at the same tempera- 
ture, that is, nearly, but never quite, boil- 
ing for an hour and a half; then, if the 
cream is pi*operlv set, which may be knows 
by touching it with your finger, and observ- 
mg whether it may be easily detached i^m 
the mould, take it from the bmn-marie and 
let it stand ; when no more than lukewarm^ 
turn it out on your dish. 

It sometimes happens. unavokUbly* tliat 



CRE 



277 



CRO 



Ciubbles arise on the surface of the cream ; 
in such a case, boil a ?1ass of cream, and 
add to it, by d^rees, wree yolks of eggs ; 
stir It constantly with a wooden spoon ; mix 
three ounces of fine sugar with it, and con- 
tinue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper 
consistence, and on the point of boiling, 
theu take it off and strain it. When the 
cream is ready for table, cover it complete- 
ly with the last made cream, which will 
hide its defects. "^ 

CREAM BISCUITS. Break six eggs, 
separate the yolks and whites, beat the 
former with six ounces of powder-sugar, 
and the same of flour ; whisk the whites, 
and then mix them together ; add to it 
wliipped cream, in proportion to the sugar 
and nour, stir it carefully, pour this into 
moulds or paper cases, and bake. 

CREAM CARAMEL. Put a pint of 
milk and half a pint of cream, widi a bit 
of cinnamon, 8($ine coriandernseeds, and 
die peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, 
and boil them for a quarter of an hour; 
then take it off the 6re ; and boil a quarter 
of a pound of sugar with half a glass of wa- 
ter, until it becomes of a nice dark color; 
take it off tlie fire, and mix with the cream ; 
then put it on the fire again, until the siigar^ 
and cream are well mixed together; then 
place a saucepan, with some hot water in 
It, over hot ashes ; take a dish, in which 
you intend serving, and pour into it your 
cream, then place it in the saucepan; put 
on the lid of tlie saucepan, with fire alwve, 
and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve 
hot. 

CREAM, SNOW. Put to a quart of 
cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, 
four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your 
taste, and a bit of lemon-peel ; whip it to a 
froth ; remove the peel, and serve in a dish. 

CREAM OF ANY PRESERVED 
FRUIT. Take half a pound of the pulp 
of any preserved fruit, put it in a lai^ pan, 
put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat 
together well for an hour; take it off with 
a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or 
g^ss salver, with other creams, or put it 
in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will 
not do this way. 

CREAM RHENISH. Put over the 
fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cin- 
namon, and half a pound of sugar; while 
this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites 
of ^gs, beat them well together with a 
wbisk, till your wine is half driven in them, 
and your eggs to a sirup ; strike it very fest 
with the whisk, till it c6oies to such thick- 



ness that you may lift it on the point of a 
knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add 
to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower 
water; pour it into your dish; gamisli it 
with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. 

CREAM, ROYAL ICES. Take any 
quantity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in' 
proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to 
every pint of cream) put a little half pound- 
ed coriander, cinnamon, orange or lemen- 
peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and 
set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then 
pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. 

CREAM, WHITE SHERBET. Put 

the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoon- 
ful of orange-flower water or crisped orange 
flowers in powder, into two quaits of cream, 
and boil it up once in a covered saucepan ; 
then pass it through a sieve, add to it three- 
quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, and 
as soon as it is perfectly dissolved, pour the 
whole into a »orbetieref which place in an 
ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. 
See Sherbet, 

CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of 
cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten 
it with sugar and rose water, and stiaia 
them ; then beat up the cream with a bundle 
of reeds tied t^^tber, or with a whisk; 
and as the snow rises take it up with a 
spoon in the oillender, that tlie liquid part 
may run out: when you have taken off as 
much of the snow as you please, boil the 
rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, 
some cloves, and a little l»ruised ginger; 
boil it till it is thick ; strain it, and when 
it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your 
snow upon it. 

CREAM, CARAMEL WHIPPED. 
Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and 
wlien it has acquired the proper reddish, 
yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass 
of boiling water, over hot ashes; after 
which, it must be reduced to a rather thick 
sirup. When cold, mix it with the whip- 
ped cream in the usual way. See IVhip' 
ped Cream. 

CROQUETTES OF DESTREES. 
Use the best puff paste ; roll it pretty thin, 
and cut it into different shapes, as &ncy 
leads; bake it, and dress each piece upon 
a dish, in a handsome manner; rub them 
with a little caramel, to make them stick 
as you place them; tlien put some cnrraat 
jelly all over the top, and make what flow- 
er or design you please, with nonpareils of 
different colors, round it. 

CROQUETTES OF PARIS. Take 



CUR 



278 



CUR 



a flick of TMulk, ponid it with two 
ouQcei of sugar, and sift both throogh a 
■ilk sieve; mix it with seven ounces of 
sugar, weU dried and pounded, and half 
a pound of fine sifted flour; then stir in the 
whites of four eggs, whipped firm, and 
work the whole together lor some mimites. 

Heat two large haking>plates of copper, 
rub them over lipitly with virsin wax; when 
the^ are cold, take a spoonful of the prepa- 
ration, and lay it on tne plate the same as 
the spoon-biscuits, taking care to by them 
three^uartera of an inch apart ; when both 
plates are full, plaoe diem on stools, in the 
oven or stove ; close the top, and lav embov 
over it, so that the croquettes may be as fiur 
removed from the fire as possible ; let them 
remain in this state all night; the next 
morning put them into a modoate oven, and 
bake them fifteen or twenty minutes; they 
riiould then quit the plate easily, and be of 
a clear reddish color; remove them from 
the plates whilst hoL The croquettes 
may be flavored according to your fancy. 

CURACAO, This is a species of bitter 
or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, 
and may be md at the dru^^ts. To make 
the liqueur called by this name, wash a 
pound of curacao several times in warm 
water; then, having well drained, put them 
into a vessel with ibur quarts of braiidy, and 
one of water; let it stand closely covered 
f<Nr a fortnight, shaking it frequently ; distil 
it after that in tlie usual way, and arain the 
curacao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five 
pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in 
three pints of water, mix it with the spirit 
and then filter it. 

CURDS AND WHEY. Take a num- 
ber of the rough coats that line the gi^ards 
of turkey and fowls ; clean them from the 
pebbles they contain, rub tliem well with 
salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a 
more tender and delicate curd than common 
rennet. When to be used, break off some 
bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling 
water; in eight or nine boursuse the liquor 
as you do other rennet. 

CURRANT CAKES, Pick and wash 
the currants, either white or red ; to two 
quarts of currants, put one pint of water; 
when boiled, run tlie juice thn>ugh a jelly 
bajg, do not press the bag; to one quart of 
juice put three poupds of sugar ; boil up the 
juice, and strew in the su^; pour it into 
glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, 
then dry the cakes on platesc 

CURRANTS, CONSERVE OF. 
Take the seeds from two pounds of red cur- 
raiits» and put them on the fire in a silver 



pan, to dry them; then prats them throq^ 
a sieve, and put them again on the fire, stir- 
rins constantly until you can see the bott<MD 
of we pan; then, having dissolved and boil- 
ed thtiee pounds of sugar to eaese, pour it on 
the firuit, stirring contioually; in a short 
time take it off, stirring it as before until it 
bii^les; thai pour it into moukis, 

CURRANT ICES. (1) Boil two pounds 
of red currants a moment with a qoarter of 
a pound of raspbernes ; rub them through a 
sieve, addine a pint <^ water, and tlieo the 
sugar, which must be very well dissolved 
bc^Mre icing. 

CURRANT ICES. (2) Pick some cur- 
rants from their stalks, and squeeze them 
through a sieve ; then take clarified sugar^ 
boil it to a very high d^ree, add it to your 
curruit juice, amd, if you dioose, squeeze in 
the juice of four lemons, it will make il 
more mellow; strain them through the sieve 
a second time, pot them in the icing pot, and 
finish the same as aU other ices. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, 
put it into a basin, with half a gill c^ sirup, 
squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint 
of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it 
through a sieve, and freeze it according .to 
custom. 

CURRANT WATER ICE. Take a 
large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put 
it into a basin, and add to it the juice uf 
two lemons, half a gill of sirup, and a pint 
of water: then freeze it rich. 

CURRANT JELLY FRAMBOISEE. 
Take seven pounds of fine ripe red ouTants, 
three of white, and two of white raspber- 
ries, press them through a very close horse- 
hair sieve; pour tlie juice on nine pounds 
of double-refined sugar, broken in small 
pieces, place the whoK on a brisk fire, tak- 
ing care to remove the scum as soon as it 
appears. When the boilings follow each 
other very quickly, take out the skinuner, 
(which should be of copper) stir it, and let 
the jelly fall from it ; ou quitting tlie skim- 
mer it ought to fell like treacle. If it does 
so, it is sufficiently done. This jelfy should 
be rose-cok>red ; by making it entirely of 
red currants and red raspberries, the color 
of the jelly will be red. 

CURRANT PASTE. Pick and take 
the seeds finom ten pounds of fine red cur*' 
rants, crush tliem, and having pressed out 
the juice, strain it dirough a silk sieve. 
Clarify and boil to eaete an equal quantity 
of sugar, pour tl^ currant juice on it. set tho 



DRA 



279 



DRA 



xrbiile oter a gentle fire, stirring constantly 
until it becomes of a proper consistence, 
which may be known by observing when the 
bottom of the pan can be seen dearly; take 
it off from tlw fire as soon as that is the 
case, and pour tlie paste into tin moulds, 
which must be placed on slates, or copper 
plates: anootli the tops with the blade of a 
Knife, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and place 
them in a stove, where they must remain till 
next day; when die paste should be turned 
in the moulds; sprinkle sifted sugar over 
them again, and set them in the stove a 
second night; on the fallowing day remove 
Chem from the moulds, lay it in boxes, with 
white paper between each layer, and keep 
them ra a dry place. A sixth part of the 
quantity of raspberries added to tlie currants, 
would greatly improve the flavor of this 
paste. 

CURRANT PASTILS. Take half a 
pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then 
a quantity of currants, which squeeze through 
a sieve; when that is done, add the juice to 
the sugar, till it makes a paste as dear and 
thick as you think proper. 

CURRANT SHRUB. To five pints of 
currant juice, either red or white, one pound 
and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, 
put to h-one gallon of rum or brandy; dear 
It throi^ a flannel bag. 

CURRANT SIRUP. Put five or six 
pounds of red, tviro of vi'hite currants, and' 
two bottles of ras|:^rrie8, into a sieve; crush 
them, and press the juice through it into a 
pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment; in a 
week's lime, pass the juice througha strain- 
ing bag, and having clarified, and boiled to 
/brt Bouffle four pounds of sugar, put the 
juice to it, and boil them together once; 
skitn, and take it from the fire. It is ne- 
cessary that the currant juice should ferment, 
to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles. 



D. 



DRAGEES, COMMON. The paste for 
these dragees is made in the same manner 
as fur the l)etter sort, but the materials difier 
a little: tlius to a quarter of a pound of the 
gum, take either equal quantities of sugar 
and powder, or one-third of the former to 
two-thirds of the latter. When these and 
'he gum are well mixed, roll out the paste 
until it is as thin as the back of a knife- 
blade; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like 
a sugar-loaf, with the top taken ofl^, with the 
largest end of which, cut as many pieces of 
the paste as will about two-thirds fill the 

24 



cutter; press these through the nnaller ena 
into paper cases; set them in a warm place 
for several days. These kind of drageet 
may, if liked, be sugared in the same man- 
ner as almonds. 

DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. These 
drage€» are made of the same materials as 
the superfine dragett; the only difference 
consists in their forms, which resemble the 
honhom: to maffe them, it is necessary to 
have -a number of wooden moulds, (pear^ 
tree wood is the best), on which must be 
stamped small squares, with various devioei 
engraved on them. Cut your paste into 
small pieces; press each piece on a mould; 
take off all the super-abundant paste; tlioi 
dip your finger in water, and with it remove 
the paste from the mould; dry them in cases 
like the other dragees, 

DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Put a 

quarter of a pound of the best gum-dragoD 
into a pan, with a pint of cold water, cover, 
and let it stand for twenty-four hours ; then 
take a sti'ong dose cloth, about two feet 
lone, and put a part of your gum into it; 
ibid it three times, so as to envelope the gum ; 
then wring the cloth, by which means the 
purest gum wifl be forced through-; scrape 
It off carefully with a knife, and then proceed 
in the same way, until all the gum be strain- 
ed ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it 
about with a pestle for half an hour; then 
add to it a pound of double-refined sifted 
sugar ; mix diem together well, until it be- 
comes a stiff paste; divide Uiis into five 
parts, four of which must be tinged as fol- 
lows: red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth 
left white), with the usual coloring materials. 
Before, however, they are colored, add to 
each piece, a pound and a half of double- 
refined sugar, sifled, dipping the paste in 
water occasionally, to enable it to receive 
the additional quantity of sugar. When you 
mix in the coloring materials, add also a 
corresponding perfume: as, to die red, rose- 
water, and a few drops of essence of roses; 
to the blue, oil of violets ; to tlie yellow, es- 
sence of cedar; to the green, essence of 
bergamot ; and with the white, mix a little 
orange-flower water, and some drops of es- 
sence of Nerolu 

Your paste being thus prepared, form it 
of whatever little ornaments you please, such 
as eg^B, \p\\&f turnips, (adding green leavei 
to these), &c. of the white; of the yellow^ 
apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c. 
of the blue ; and so on ; rolling them in 3-oar 
hands to smooth them, and make them all 
quite small; to those which imitate fruits, 
add tails and tops, cut from cberry-stalki, 
and stuck on whilst the paste is damp; and 
with a hair-pencil, dipped in powdered cin« 



EOO 



280 



FIL 



■■bur, tinge the peen, applet, and mpricote, 
■lightly breathing on them to nwisten the 
■urfaoe. When all are done, put them into 
pftper cans, and set them in a warm place 
KNT ■everal days, to dry. 



E. 



EGGS CARAMEL. Take the yolks 
oi a doten hard eggs, bruise them in a saooe- 

San, widi some powder-sugar, three almond 
iscuits, and half a gbas of cream ; make 
these into a paste, of which fi>rm little eggs, 
dip them in caramel sugar, and brown them. 

EGGS DUCHESSE. Boil a pint and 
 half of cream with some sugar, orai^e- 
flower, candied lemon-ped, marchpane, and 
burnt almonds, all chopped small or bruised ; 
whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and 
then take two or three spoonflils of them at 
a time, and poach thorn in the cream ; drain, 
and lay them on a dish, 00 as to resemble 
eggs poached without the yolks. When all 
the whites are thus used, put the cream on 
the fire, and reduce it, and as the didi is 
■ent to table, add the volks to jtlie cream, 
and pour the sauce gently oTer the ^gs. 

EGGS FILAGRAMME. Take a pint 
of white wine, half a pound of fine powder- 
sugar, and msike it into a clenr sirup with 
the white of an eg^; beat up well eisht 
eggs, and pour th^ through a colander 
into the sirup ; a very short time is sufficient 
to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. 

EGGS OF SNOW. Break ten e^, 
■nd having separated the yolks and whites, 
whip the latter as for biscuits; then add 
two spoonfuls of powder-sugar, and a little 
dried oranse-flower in powder. Pour a 
quart of milk, six ounces of powder-eugar, 
and a little orange-flower, into a saucepan, 
and when it boila put into it, a dessert-spoon- 
fiil at a time, of the white of egg ; poach 4be 
latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. 
Then beat up the yolks, and mix tliem with 
half the milK, put it on the fire, and stir it 
with a wooden-spoon till it begins to thick- 
en ; then take it off, lay the poached eggs in 
a dish, and cover them with the yolks and 
milk. 

EGGS, WHITE OF. To make a dish 
of these, take the whites of twelve eggs, 
beat them up witli four spoonfuls of rose-wa- 
ter, some lemon^seel grated, and a little 
nutmeg; sweeten tliem wiili susar, mix 
them well, and boil them in four bladders; 
tie them in the shape of an effff, and boil 
tbem hard; they will take bauan hour; 



ky tbem in a dish; when cold, mix hdf  
pint of thick cream, a gill of moontain, and 
tlie juice ai half an orange all tt^jetber; 
sweeten it with fine sugar, and aerve it over 
the^ggi. 



F. 



FILBERT BISCUITS. Take some 
Barcek>na filbert nuts, and pot tfaem in a mor- 
tar to break their shells ; pick aU the sheHs 
firom thorn clean, pound them in a noortar 
very fine, and mix whites of ^gs with them ; 
take care they do not oil ; mix three pounds 
of powdered-sugar, with the nuts and whitei 
of e^;s, to a proper thickness ; let your oven 
be (Ma moderate heat, then with tne spaddle 
and knife, drop small pieces, about half as 
big as a nutmeg ; put two or three sheets of 

Kper under tbem, let them bake of a fine 
own, and all alike; and let them be odd 
before you take them off the pap^ . 

FILBERT CANNELLONS. Bom 
and pound eix ounces of filberts, nooist- 
enii^ them with white of ^g; wlien well 
pounded, add a quarter of a pound of 
fine pounded sugar, and half the white of an 
egg; dry this i»ste a little, and then press 
it through a syringe, cutting the eannellonf 
about four inches in length ; make the yW- 
ture quite hot, dip the eannellons in batter, 
and fry them. Sprinkle them with aogar, 
and giaae them with a salainander. Tuke 
particular care to keep the cannellotu per- 
fectly straight. 

FILBERT BURNT, ICE CREAM. 
Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, 
and pound them a little with some cream; 
put four ^gs into a stewpan, with one pint 
of cream and two gills of sirup; boil it till it 
becomes tliick, pass it through a sieve, and 
freeze it; then mix tlie filberts with it be- 
fore ypu put it into your moulds. 

FILBERT MACAROONS. Take a 
pound of filberts, and put a ouarter of them 
into a preserving-pan (immediately after you 
have taken them from tlie ahelfe,) over a 
moderate fire; stir them continually with a 
silver spoon, until they are colored, and the 
skin b^fins to peel off; tlien take them out ; 
rub off tlie skin entirely, and when quite 
cold, pound them with a little white of egg: 
proceed in the same manner with the re- 
maining three-quarters; and when all are 
thus pounded separately, put the whole to- 
gether into the mortar, with a pound of 
sugar, and the whites of two e^, and beat 
them for ten minutes; after which, add two 
pounds more of sifted sugar, previously beat- 



GOO 



281 



GRE 



«n op with BIX whites of g^; stir all these 
together well for five or six minutes, when 
the preparation should be sufficiently firm, to 
prevent its spreading when laid; if, how- 
ever, it be too firm, add to it more white of 
^g. When you have proceeded so far, wet 
the palms of your hands, and roll aspoonfiil 
of the preparation to the size and form of a 
DntDieg; when all done, dip your hands in 
water, and pass them gently over the maca- 
roons, which will make their surface smooth 
and -shining; put them into a nearly cold 
oven ; close it tight, and let them remain in 
it for three-quarters of an hour. Lay the 
macaroons at least an inch apart, and as 
round as possible. 

FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify su- 

£ir to a caramel heirht, which may be 
Down by dipping in a fork, and if it dirows 
(he sugar as fine as threads, put in the flow- 
ers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the 
insides rubbed with sweet oil ; put into each 
cnp lour table-spoonfuls of the sugar and 
flowers, and when cold turn them out of the 
cojpB, and serve them to table piled one upon 
another. 

FRUIT BISCUITS. To the pulp of 
any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of 
sugar sifted, beat it two hours ; then put it 
into little white paper forms; dry them in a 
cool oven, turn them the next day, and in 
two or three days box them. 

FRUIT, PRESERVED, BISCUITS 
OF. Take dried preserved fruits, such as 
apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, 
and a little orange-flower marmalaude; 
pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; 
then mix it wim yolks of new laid eggs, and 
fine powdernsugar, until it comes to a supple 
paste, not too liquid; then bake them on 
paper io a moderate oven. 



G. 



GINGER, CANDIED. Put an ounce 
of ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted 
sugar into a preserving-pan with as much 
water as will dissolve it. Stir them well 
together over a slow fire, till the sugar be- 
gins to boil ; then add another pound, stir- 
ring constantly till it thickens. Take it 
from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set 
them in a warm place to dry, and they will 
be hard and brittle and look white. 

GOOSEBERRY CAKES. Break the 
|(00seberries, press out the juice, and strain 
It through a muslin ; to one pint of juice a 
pound (H sugar; boU uo the juice; strew io 



the sugar: stir it well; simmer it vrell tiVS 
the su^r is melted; pour it into glasses: 
dry it in a stove till it will turn out, then 
dry the cakes on plates. 

GOOSEBERRIES, GREEN, COM- 
POTE OF. Give them a little cut on one 
side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them 
in hot water to scald, till they rise to the 
top ; then put cold water to them, adding a 
little salt, to bring them to their natural 
green ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and 
let them remain in sometime to imbibe the 
sweet ; take them out, and put them in the 
compotier ; reduce the sirup to a good con- 
sistence, and pour it over the fruit. This 
is for green gooseberries ; but if you make 
use of preserved ones, warm them in their 
own sirup and a little water, and serve it 
either hot or cold. These will not keep 
lon^, particularly if they have been wanned 
again : if exposed to the air any time, they 
will lose their color. 

GRAPE ICE. Take ripe grapes, pick 
them from their stalks, pass them through 
a sieve ; mix some sugar with the juice of 
four lemons squeezed upon it; pass the 
whole together a secona time through a 
sieve, then freeze iL 

GRAPES RATAFIA. Take some 
fine muscadine grapes, pick tliem firom the 
stalks ; bruise and press them, so as to ex- 
tract all their juice ; then dissolve some su- 
gar in the grape juice, adding to it brandy 
and cinnamon ; let the whofe infuse for a 
fortnight ; then strain it throi^h a Gtering 
bag, and bottle it ofiT. The proper propor- 
tions are one pint of brandy, and ten ouncei 
of sugar to one pint of grape juice. 

GREEN-GAGES TO CANDY. When 
finished in the sirup, (see green-gages to 
preeerve,) put a layer into a new sieve, 
and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take 
off the sirup that hangs about it; then pot 
it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and 
then do some more on the sieve. Have 
ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift 
this all over every part of the fruit, till it is 
perfectly white. Set it on the shallow end 
of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn 
it two or diree times. It must not be cold 
till dry. Watch it carefully. 

GREEN GAGES TO PRESERVE. 

You must choose the largest, when th^ be- 
gin to soften ; split without paring them, and 
having previously weighed an equal quanti- 
ty of sugar, strew a part of it over them; 
blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife ; 
next day, pour the sirup from the firuit, and 
boil it with die other sugar, very gently, tor 



jun 



282 



LEm 



•m or eight minutei; akian, and add the 
plumii aM kemeb. Siminer till clear, 
taking off any BCUin that rises; put the fruit 
•inffle into small pots, and pour the sirup 
and kernels upon it. 

GUM PASTE. Pot a pouod of gum- 
dragon in a basin, with warm water eaou^ 
to cover one inch above the gum ; set this ra 
a warm ckjeet for four and tweotj hours ; 
have a new tammy ready laid over a dish ; 
spr^ul it on it, and squeeie through as 
much as you can at first ; then op&i the 
tammy, i^xead the gum out again, and then 
squeeze it; repeat this till the whole i» 
tlirough; then lay it on the slab, work it 
well with your hand, put in nearly all the 
juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best 
double refined powder-sugar, by degrees, as 
you work it; Ixit before you have pot in the 
whole of the sugar, b^m to add some of 
the best starch powder; blend them thor- 
oughly together, till .the paste begins to 
take an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, 
and let it stand in a damp place for a week 
or ten days, (it is the better foe keeping), 
work it with powder, and it will cut and 
mould to any shape you please, and when 
you want it to harden, s^t it in a dry place ; 
if yon wish to color it, to make it nd, use 
cochineal or carmine; for blue or violet 
eolor, use indigo ; for velbw, saffron ; for 
green, tlie juice of beet leaves, scalded ova* 
the fire, the thick part mix with the paste. 
When you put in colors, be careful to blend 
tiiem Mrell, and be particular that the cofor 
is good. 



H. 



HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil a quar- 
ter of a pound of hartshcNrn-shavings in-three 
pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, 
strain it through a jelly-bag ; put it to a 
pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of 
powder-sugar, and give them one boil to- 

Esther ; then put it into cups or glasses, and 
t them stand till cold, when turn them out 
on a dish; stick some sliced blanched al- 
monds on the top of each. White wine 
and sugar is usually eaten with them. 



J. 



JUNIPER BERRIES, ICES OF. In- 

fiise some juniper berries in warm water, 
or take about a handful of the berries, and 
boil them' a moment with a pint of water, 
half a pound of sugar, and a bk of cinna- 
mon, and sift them through a sieve with ex- 
pression^ and finish the same as all others. 



JUNIPER RATAFIA. Takt 

ounces of juniper berries, aoiae, coriao' 
der, cinnamon, and cfoves, of eacb eight- 
een grains ; bruise all these ingredients, and 
infuse them, for a month, io three pints of 
brandy ; then strain it, acki three-quarters 
of a pound o( sugar dissolved io half a pint 
of water, stir them together, poas the whole 
tiurough a jelly-faag, and bottle it; ke^ it 
wdlcorkedL 



LEMON BRANDY. Put the peel of 

two lemons into a boule of brandy, let it 
stand for four and twenty hours, ma strain 
it; boil two ounces of k»f sugar in a quar- 
ter of a pint of water; then Bkim» and let it 
stand till cold; when coid, mix it with tb» 
brandy. 

LEMON CARES. Quarter m maay 
lemons as you think proper> they must have 
good rinds, and boil th^ in two or three 
waters, till they are tender, and faav« lost 
their bitterness; then dtin them, and pot 
them in a oapkio to fry; with a knife take 
afl the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred 
the peels fine, put them to the pu^, wei^ 
them, and put rathor more than their wei^tt 
of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with iost 
sufficient water to dissolve the siKar ; boil 
it till it becomes perfectly disso^ed, and 
then by d^p^ees pot in the peel and po^ ; 
stir them wdl before you set them on the 
fire, boil it very gently tUl it loolo clear aad 
thidc, and then put it into flat-bottomed 
plasses ; set them in a stove, and ke^ dbaa 
m a continual and moderate heat,, and tura 
them out upon glassesy as sooo a» they are 
candied. 

LEMON COMPOTE. Cot them ii> 
small pieces, and boU them in water till 
they are tender, then change thmi iiMo cold 
water; then make a sirup with a riass ot 
water, and a quarter of a poimd of 8ugar> 
and put in the fruit ;. let it simmer gently; 
over a sbw fire for half ai> hour„ and serve 
coU. ' 

LEMON CONSERVE. Grate the rind 
of a lemon on a piece of sti^^ (about a 
pound,) scrape off the sorfoce of the sugar 
as the lemon adheres to it, until you have 
rasped the whofe of due rind; squeeze half 
the juice on tlie scraped sugar, and thea 
boil the rest to la grande plumtt; take it 
frum the fire when at this degree, and let it 
stand a little ; stir in the lemon gently, and 
when it forms a sort of glact on the top of 
the sugar^ pour the conserve into moulds^ 



1 

i 



LEM 



283 



LEM 



being careftdy however, that it is not too 
hot. 

LEMON DROPS. Grate three lai^e 
lemons, with a lai^ piece of double refined 
aogar; then scrape the eagu into a plate, 
add half a teanspooniul of flour ; mix well 
together, and beat it into a li^ht paste, with 
the white of an e^. Drop it upon white 
paper, put them on a tin-plate, and set than 
in a moderate oven. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. Take the juice 
of three or four lemons, and grate the peel 
of one lemon ; add two eills of sirup, and 
one pint o£ cream ; mix it all together, pass 
it through a sieve, and freeie it. 

LEMONS TO KEEP FOR PUD- 
DINGS. When you squeeze the fruit, 
throw the outside in water, without the 
pulp ; let them ramain in the same a finrt- 
aight, adding no more ; boil them in the 
same till tender ; strain it from them, and 
when they are nearly dry, throw them into 
any jar of candy you may have remaining 
from old sweetmeats ; or, if you have none, 
boil a small quantity of sirup, of common 
loaf sugar and water, and pour over them ; 
in a week or ten days, boil them gently in 
it till they look clear; and tliat they may 
be covered with it in the jar, you may cut 
each half of the fruit in two, and they will 
occupy a smaller space. 

LEMON PASTILS. Take half a pound 
of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- 
sible ; put it in a plate, take three or four 
lemons, and squeeze tlieir juice over the su- 
ffar ; mix it well with a spoon, till you make 
It rather a thickish paste, so that you can 
take^ it upon a knife; then take half a sheet 
of paper, and cover it with little round and 
fiat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place 
them in a stove with a slow fire till they are 
quite dry, then take them off from tlie paper; 
you may use, if you please, some of the peel 
grated, but not chipped ; for, as it is a melt- 
ing pastil, some of the bits would remain in 
the mouth. 

LEMON PEEL CANDIED. Take 
some thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yel- 
low pe^, and throw it into boiling water till 
.^oft, when it must be put into cold water. 
Clarify some fine susar, and boil it au petit 
ItMe, and having drained the lemon-peel, 
pour on it the sirup (whilst hot) ; tlie next 
day boil the sirup again, and return it to the 
peel; the third and fourth days proceed in 
the same manner, adding a smalt quantity of 
clarified sugar; the last time the sirup is 
boiled, as soon as it rises to perU, put in 
the peel, cover and boil the whole together 

24* 



once, and when cold, drain and ihry them in 
a stove. 

LEMON PEEL, TO CANDY. Take 
some lemon-peels, and clean them well fixim 
the pulp, ana let them lay two days in salt 
and water; then scald and drain them dry, 
then boil them in a thin sirup till they look 
quite clear. After which, take them out, 
and have ready a thick sirup made with fine 
loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer 
them till the sugar-candies about the pan and 
peels. Then lay them separately on a hair 
sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, 
and set them to dry in a slow oven. 

LEMON PEEL, CARAMEL. Take 
some very dry preserved lemon-peel, and 
cut il into several small square pieces ; put 
these pieces each on the point of little sticks 
for this purpose, and dip them into caramel 
sugar as directed. See eheBtmUt au car" 
amel. 

LEMON PEEL SIRUP OF. Take 
five ounces of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a 
glass cucurbite, which has been gradually 
heated ; pour on them two pounds of nearly 
boiling water; close the vessel v^ tight, 
and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours ; 
after which, let the iqftision run out gently 
without pressing the peel ; add two douiku 
of powder-sugar, and tlien boil the wnole to 
grand perle, when about half cold, put in 
a few drops of spirit of lemon. 

LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take a 
pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with 
as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to 
spread the paste with a knife; add to it a 
sufficient quantity of grated lemon-peel to 
impart the flavor requii-ed. The whole 
being well mixed, cot some sheets of wafer 
paper into such figures as your fancy may 
dictate, and spr^id the paste over them, 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness; 
place them on paper, and bake them in a 
moderate oven. If you wish to glaze your 
sweetmeats, boil some sugar with oranga- 
flower water to la plume, and when they 
are taken out of the oven, wash them over 
with the sirup, which dries almost immedi- 
ately. 

LEMONS, SIRUP OF. Squeeze aa 
many lemons as will yield about three-quar- 
ters of a pound of juice, taking particular 
care that the peel of every lemon is perfectly 
sound, and that they are none of them in this 
least degree bitter. Set your juice in the 
cellar for four days, and then filter it through 
blotting-paper. Break a pound and a half 
of double-refined sugar into pieces about an 
inch squaie ; put them into a galton matrassy 



VAC 



384 



H 



poor tfai h mwj niw over k, doie tfa« luit- 
rara with paper, and place it in a bmn ako- 
rie until tiw sugar is entirely dissolved ; then 
exlinguisb your fire» and let the matrass cool 
gradtelW ; when ooldy add two spoonfiils of 
spirit ol femoos, then bottle it, keep it w«i 
corked. 

LEMON WAFERS. Squee» the juice 
of ais lemons into a basin; poond and sift 
some double>refined suaar, and mix it with 
the Icmon-jeice ; put the white of one egg 
with It, and mix the whole well together 
with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good 
consistence ; take some sheets of wafer-pa- 
per, and put one sheet of it on a pewter 
sheet or tin pbte; put on it a spoonful of 
tile preparation, and spread it all over the 
paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, 
and put them across a stick in a hot stove, 
widi that side the paste is on uppermost, 
and yoQ wUl find they will curl ; when they 
are naif curled, take tliem off very carefelly 
and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that 
they may stand up ; let them be in the hot 
stove one day, and you will find they will be 
all curled, and then they are done 

LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and 
bruise a ouarter of a pound of liqoorice'root, 
and boil it in a little water till it is much 
reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it 
dear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce 
of gum-draffon : when thoroughly dissolved, 
sift it in a unen bag, and -mix sugar with it 
till it is brought to the consistence of a paste; 
then cut it into what flowers or designs you 
think proper* • 



M. 



MACAROONS, SPICED. Take a 
pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of 
sifted suffar; make your paste as usual, to 
which add a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre* 
served lemon and orange-peel (of each a 
spoonful,) chopped small, and the grated 
rind of two lemons ; mix them all together 
in the mortar, and then lay your macaroons 
as usual, and bake them with equal car^. 

MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. ITie 
macedaine is an ornamental dish, composed 
of transparent jelly, with various fruits en- 
cloeed in it; for this purpose it should be 
done as fellows: Have a dome-shaped mould 
six inches and a lialf in diameter, and four 
in height, the sides fluted ; tlie smaller mould 
must be of a similar form, but only four inch- 
es and a half in diameter, and two and three- 
r Iters high ; to this latter have four han- 
, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in 



the centre of Ae laifv moaM- PwpM Bi 
strawberry transparent jelly, place the larger 
mould as straight as possible in pounded ioe^ 
hang the small one in it, and peer tlie jel^ 
into die fiirmer; whilst it ie oonBaling^ 
pidt about tweoty fine i i lii l u atrawmmei^ 
the same number of verv red ones, tke same 
of white rasi^ierriesy a oozes' baadtas of red, 
and the saaie' of wbife cvmuite; 'wadi aft 
these welk^ bat tovcb them ae little ma possi- 
ble, that they may not loee their fipeebness; 
when the jelly is perfectly set, poor some 
hot water vuio the small mould which wiS 
enable yo» to remove it with ease ; raise it 
with great care, so thai the spaoe raay be 
feond without the sliglnest flaw ; then place 
on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two 
bunches of white currants, surround these 
wiUi a rii^ of white strawberries, and the 
latter with a crown er ring of white rasp- 
berries; pom* over very carefiilty two or 
three spoonfuls of the jelry, and when that ia 
congealed, proceed in the same way wid» 
the red currants, strawberries, and raspber' 
ries, tlien the jelly, and so on attematelyy 
until all the fruit is used ; fill the nioaid witb 
jelly ; as soon as the whole is ooi^ealed, dip 
your mould into a large saucepan of hcriE 
water, and then torn it into a dish instantly. 
The mticedoine mny be |amished in tbiv 
manner with any kind of fruit you think 
proper. It may also be filled with two jc^ 
lies as follows: white lemon jelly in the 
large mould, and finished with the same 
jelly, tinged with either rose-color or yellow ; 
indeed the moulds may be varied in any way 
your ^cy may dictate. 

MALLOWS, SIRUP OF. Take half 
a pound of mallows root, and having scrap* 
ed and washed it wdl, cut it into small 
pieces, which set on the fire wkh three pipts 
of water ; when sufficiently boiled, the wa« 
ter will be glutinous, 6ti*ain off the decoction, 
and pour into it ibur pounds of sugar ; clari« 
iy it in the same manner as capiliaire ; boil 
it to liasCf run it through a jelly-bag, and 
when cold, bottle it. 

MARASCHINO. Take sixteen potmds 
of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off 
the stalks; put them into five quarts of 
iMrandy to infuse, covered close for three 
days, then distil the infusion ; distil also a 
pound of cherry-leaves in §ix quarts of filter- 
ed river water, from which you will obtain 
about a gallon ; dissolve in this four poiuids 
and a half of fine sugar ; add it to the li- 
queur, with two pints and a half of kirschen- 
wasser, an ounce and four drachms of spi.jtv 
of rose, the same of orange-flowers, and 
three drachms of spirits of jessamin".; mix 
them altogether, run it through a je!ly-baf, 
and bottle it; cork them well. 



i 



MAR 



285 



M£L 



MARASCHINO, CONSERVE OP. 

Pound and sift some of the beet lump sugar, 
mix it in a china basin with spirit of maras- 
chino, nnti) it i« of the consistence of pastil 
paste; then put it into a skillet over the fire, 
and beat it gently, stirring it constantly (but 
-without letting it boil,) till very liquid, when 
It may be poured into funnelnshaped tin 
moalds; put these moulds cm iron plates, 
and dry Ae conserve in a stove. 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take 
two quarts of cream, twelve e^s, a pound 
of donble-^vfined sugar, and three glasses 
of true roereschino ; put the cream on to 
boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites 
of the eggs to a firm snow, tlien pour in 
eight ydks, and the sugar pounded and 
sifted, stir them together lightly, and then 
add by degress the boiling cream, whipping 
continually ; set it on the fire, and do not 
cease whipping until it has boiled up three 
or four times; pour it through a sieve into 
a basin, stirring a little to enable it to run 
more freely ; when cold put it into the tor- 
betiere with the maraschino ; cover it in- 
stantly, and ice it as usual. 

MARCHPANE. Take four pounds of 
flweet almonds, throw them into boiling 
water, let them lay till the skin loosens, 
then put them into cold water, after a few 
minutes blanch and throw tliem again into 
cold water to wash them thoroughly. When 
diy* pound them (a handful at a time) to a 
very fine paste, moistening each handftil 
with two «|MK>nfui8 of water; the whole 
quantity of almonds being pounded, put the 
paste into a large preserving pan, with four 
pounds of the best lump sugar finely pound- 
ed and sifted ; set the pan on a coal fire, 
stinMnd work them up together with a 
lar^ wooden spatula, rather sliarp at the 
bottom: be very careful tliat none of the 
paste adheres to the pan ; the consequence 
of such neglect would be, that the march- 
pane would be spotted with yellow, and 
would smell unpleasantly. Whilst working 
it up, the paste, which when put in was 
tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, 
and a gi'eat deal of vapor may be observed ; 
the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by 
Ae heat and moisture, the isecond by tlie 
evaporation of the water. Continue to stir 
and work it up in this manner without 
ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of 
that time, you can touch the paste without 
its adhering to your fingers, it is sufiiciently 
dried ; in which case remove it all to one 
side'of the pan, clean the bottom and side 
of the other, sprinkle it well with fiour, then 
put the paste to that pait, clean and sprin- 
kle that side also; then take the pan by 
both ears and move it round and round, so 



that the paste may all unite together; as 
soon as' it has done so, put it into a sheet of 
paper, or, if you want to use it immediate^ 
iV) on a well floured table. This paste, if 
the almonds be well pounded and then tbor* 
oughly dried, will keep good for six months; 
if these two . precautions are not properly 
attended to, it will become sour in ten days* 

MARIGOLDS, CONSERVE OF. Take 
four ounces of marigold-flowers, conserve of 
hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms, 
die powder of pearl two ounces, and as 
much sirup of citron as will make them into 
a conserve, mixing and bruising tliem to- 
gether with refined sugar. 

MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take 
the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjo* 
rare, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or 
bowl ; take double its weiglit of fine sugar, 
sboil it with marjoram-water till it is as 
thick as sirup, then put in your beaten mar- 
joram. 

MARSEILLES^ OR GINGER. Take 

a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, 
and boil it to fort souffle, add to it aa 
ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan 
from the fire, and with a round stick (like 
a plain round rule) stir die sugar, inclining 
llie stick towards the sides of the pan, then 
with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to 
the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then 
work it up again with tlie stick, remove the 
solid sugar as Ijefore, and repeat this opera- 
tion four times, when it will havel^come tole- 
rably thick and firm ; pour it intQ4)aper cases, 
about half an inch tliick, and with a fork 
trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges 
of what size you please ; afterwards, with 
tlie point of a knife, maik some of these 
deeper than the dtliers; when quite cold, 
take them out of the papers, and separate 
them, where the lines are deepest. The 
Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry 
place, will keep good for a long time. 

MARSEILLES SPICED. Take a 
pound and a half of fine sugar, boil it to 
C€i$$e; take a quarter of preserved orange- 
peel, the same of candied lemon-peel, (or, 
if you like it better, two ounces of b]anched 
pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put 
them with half an ounce of cloves, the same 
of cinnamon (bolh pounded) into the sugar, 
stir them in gently, continue to boil your 
sirup to forte plumes then beat it up, pour 
it into cases, and finish as the Marseilles. 

MELONS, TO PRESERVE LIKE 
GINGER. Half a pound of ginger to one 
pound of melon; gciupe the ginger, and 
save the scrapings ; {xnir a quart ol boiling 



MIN 



286 



MTR 



waler on the gingfll'i let i( stand two days: 
scald the mekNi (with the scrapings of the 
ginser in the water), taking care not to 
D»Ke it too soft: cut it into small pieces 
resenibling ginger; then prepare a sirup, 
half a pound of sugar to a pint of water ; 
boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in the 
melon, and set it over the fire for a short 
time, but not to boil ; let the simp, with 
the ginger, be boiled every day for a fort- 
night, but not poured upon the melon till 
nearly cold ; then boil a rich simp to keep 
it in. 

N. B. Oarrot is^ually good with mdon. 

MERINGUES. (1) Whisk the whites of 
nine eggs to a solid froth ; then add the rind 
of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a 
spoonfiil of sifted sugar; after which, lay a 
sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a 
spoon drop the mixture in little lumps, 
separately upon it, sift sugar over, and put 
them to bake in a moderately heated oven, 
taking care that they are done of a nice 
color. Then put raspberry, apricot, or any 
other kind of jam between two of these bot- 
toms, add them togetlier, and lay them in 
a warm place, or before Uie fire to dry. 

MERINGUES. (2) Take the whites 
of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best limip 
sugar, pounded and sifted, and half a pound 
of pistachios; blanch and beat the latter in 
a mortar, widi a little white of egg, to a 
vai-y fine paste. Whisk the whites of e^ 
to a snow, then add the sugar, and pista- 
chio paste, mix tliem well, but very lightly, 
and when tliey are thoroughly incorporated, 
put some sheets of paper on tin plaUes, lay 
your preparation on the paper, with a spoon, 
lay the meringues, at least an inch apart; 
sprinkle sifted sugar over them, ana put 
them into a moderate oven or stove ; when 
done, detach them gently firom the paper 
witli a knife, aud place them on a sieve in 
a dry place. Just before they are sent to 
table, fill each with a little whipped cream, 
to which add a small quantity of either 
orauge-flower, rose, or vanilla water. 

MILK PUNCH. Pare six oranges, and 
six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, 
gi*ate tliem after with sugar to obtain the 
flavor. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum 
sr brandy, stopped close for four and twenty 
hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of 
sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and 
one (|uart c^new milk, boiling hot; stir the 
rum mlo the above, and run it throtigli a 
jelly-bag until it is quite clear: bottle and 
cork it dose immediately. 

MINT. DISTILLED LIQUEUR OF. 
Take two liaiidials o{ fresli gattiered gartlcu 



mint, and infuse it for some days in a gaUoa 
and a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; 
then distil it as usual. Dissolve tiunes 
pounds and a half of sn^r in sereo pints of 
water, mix the sirup with the Uqwtemr, and 
run the vi^le throu^ a jelly bag. 

MINT WATER. Tkke (bar pounds of 
dried mint, two galkms and a half of proof 
spirits, and three gaUone of water; distil 
them, and sweeten the wato* with a pound 
and a half of sugar. 

MIRLITONS. Put into a pui two 
yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounoes of 
powder*«ugar, three ounces of sweet maca- 
roooB crushed, half an ounce of crisped 
orange-flow«B in powder, and a erain of 
salt; stir these together a minute, men add 
two ounces of metted butter; whip«tlie two 
whites very firm, and put them a»o to the 
preparation. Line thii^ tartlet moolds with 
puff-pflUBte, into each of which pour an equal 
quantity of the abovp; cover them with 
sifted sugar, and when that is dissolved, 
strew over a little sv^r, a la grelej and 
put them into a moderate oven : serve either 
iiot or cold. 

MULBERRIES, SIRUP OF. Take 
as many mulberries as will yield three pints 
of juice, which put into a preserving pan 
with three pints of wat«r; boil until tiiis 
quantity is reduced to one pint ; then lay ttie 
fruit on a sieve to drain. Clariiy duee 
pounds of sugar, boil it to bouiUes then add 
the mulberry-juice ; give tliem one boil, and 
skim them. Pour the sirup into a pan, aud 
let it stand ; when cold, bottle it. 

MUSK, TO PREPARE FOR LI- 
QUEURS. Take two grains of mu8^,»nd 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound tliem 
in a mortar and mix them well ; keep it in 
a closely stopped bottle. The quantity re- 
quired cf this is one pinch to four or five 
quarts of liqueur. Ambergris is prepared 
in a similar manner, but bemg less powerfiil 
than the musk, (bur grains is the proportiiMi 
to a quarts* of a pound of sugar. 

MYRTLE, OIL OF. Put two ounces 
of peach leaves, and tlie half of a nutmw, 
bruised, into six quarts of brandy; distil 
from this in a bedn marie alembic your li- 
queur, in which, infuse half a pound of myr- 
Jtle flowers for four days. Dissolve nve 
pounds of sugar in three quarts of pore river 
water ; tlie moment it Iiegins to boil, take it 
from the fire, and let it cool ; take the myr- 
tle fiowern from the liqueur, and put in the 
stigar; mix them well, color it with tincture 
«)f 8artVon,'straiii and buttJe h* 






N-UT 



287 



ORA 



N. 



NONPAREIL. Poppy seeds Bngared in 
the maDner directed under the articles Sn- 
gored Seeds, are called Nonpareihj 
tiiey are tinged of different colors, by the in- 
troduetifMB of the various coloring materials 
into the sugar with which they are cot- 
ered* 

NOUGAT. Blanch and wash a pound 
of sweet almonds, and having drained them 
well, cat each into five slips, which place in 
a sentle oven to dry ; let them be all equalty 
colored c^ a clear yellow ; in the meantime, 
pot tliree-qoartnr» gC a poiaid of fine sugar 
into a preserving pan, set it on a stove, 
Btirriag with a woodm spoon until com- 
pletely dissolved ; then take the aloKMids out 
of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into 
the liquid sugar; mix them togethor well. 
Have ready a mould well oiled, of anw shape 
you think proper, in the intM'ior of which 
place the sKps of almonds, by means of lem- 
on-juice, when the whole is covered, remove 
the mould carefully, and serve the Nougt^, 

NOYAU, ENGLISH. Two gaNons of 
gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one poimd 
of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste ; 
six pounds of lump sugar, pounded (some of 
it with the almonds.) Let these stand ten 
days in the gin, then filtw it throogfa bfetting 
paper, and bottfe it. 

NUT BONBONS. Boil a pound of 
Spanish nuts; whe& th^ are well boiled, 
rub off their dun with a napkin, if some 
stick too hard, pare it off with a knife; 
grate your nuts very fine on a riieec of pa- 
per ; then take a pound of powdered sugar 
to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a 
slow fire; when your sugar is. all melted 
(y(H] must stir it constantly with a~ wooden 
spoon) put your nuts in, ana work them well 
till all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin 
plate; then sfH^ead it with a rolling pin, this 
must be done very quickly, as it cools very 
fast; when it is cold, cut it into what form 
yoo please ; yon must take care the sugar is 
not too much melted, ibr it is very apt to 
soften when the nuts are added to it. 

NUTS PRALINED. Take a pound 
of Spanish ntils, take them out ijf their 
shells, and put th«n into a pan, with a 
pound of loaf sugar, and a little water; let 
them boil till they begin to sparkle; dien 
take them off the fire, and stir them well 
with a wooden spoon, till you perceive the 
gngar turns gravelly; then set them again 



over a slow fire, to disso^the-sogar; keep 
stirring, that the sugar may stick fo the nuts, 
and when you see than turn reddish, and 
are well covered with sugar, take diem off, 
pour them into a sieve, cover them with a 
clean clodi, and put them into a stove; this 
will preserve ^ir gloss. 

NUTMEGS TO CANDY. Take a 

pound and a half of doable refined sugar, 
half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-wa- 
ter, and a ver^ little gum arable ; boil these 
to a candy height ; let your nutmegs be first 
soaked in water; then put them into an 
earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep 
them very close covered, set them in a warm 
place ibr about three wedis, and th(^ will 
be of a rock candy. 



O. 



OIL OF JUPITER. Take three ^artr 
of spirits of wine, flavored with essential oif' 
of lemon, the same quantity flavored with 
spirit of oedrat ; make a snnip with seven 
pounds of sugar, a gallon of water, and two 
bottles of Scubac; mix the whole together, 
and by stirring, it will become thiw; to 
clarify it, take the whites of two egga in 
about a pint of the licjpieur, and afta-wards 
put it to die whole; stir it; then put it into 
a stin in the bain miirte moderately lieated ; 
let it remain for twelve hours ; filter the pro- 
duce of your distillation, and bottle it. 

OIL OF VENUS. Reduce die folk>w. 
ii^ articles to an impalpable powder: — ao 
ounce of skirret seeds, an ounce of cftraway 
seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a drachm 
and a half of mace, and the rind of an or- 
ange ; infiise these ibr five days in a galbn 
of rarandy, then distil from it in a bain ma- 
He, two quarts of liqueurs dissolve over 
the fire four pounds of sugar in two* quarts 
of pure water; when cold, mix it with the 
distilled liqueur, and color it of a clear yel- 
low, with a little tincture of saffiron ; filter 
and bottle it; seal the corks. 

ORANGES IN BRANDY. Choose 
the oranges very round and smooth, pare, 
prick them in the middle, and put iheni into 
cold water; dien blanch them in boiling 
water; when they are tender, throw them 
again into cold virater; in a short time give 
t»em seven or eight boils in sugar, a la p0- 
tUe nappe, skim, and let them stand till 
next day, when the same process must be 
gone through; skim them again, then put 
them into bottles, pour over them equal 
quantities of sirup and water; take care to 
cork them well. 



ORA 



288 



ORX 



ORANGE, OMfPOTE. Cot 

in tmali pieces, and boil tbem in wa- 
ter until Uiey are tender, then cfaange them 
into cold water; next make a eirop with 
one glaM of water and four ounces of sugar, 
and put in the frait; let it simmer gently 
over a slow fire for half an hour; serrecold. 

ORANGE, CROQUE EN BOU- 
CHES OF. Para a down fine oraiwes, 
and divide each into twelve pieces, all of 
the same siie ; scrape off eferj particle <^ 
the white, without breaking the thin skin 
which contains the juice ; when all are done, 
dip each piece into some sugar boiled to 
C4M«e (ana li^tly colored,) flUMl place them 
in a plain mould of six inches diamqier, and 
five in heifffat ; the first row inclined (Mie way, 
the second the reverse way, and so on ; lay 
them at the bottom in a star. As soon as 
the mould is full, turn it out, and serve it 
with all possible expedition, as the moisture 
of the fiiiit dissolves the su^ so rapidly, 
that the croque en bouehe is liable to fiul 
to pieces. 

ORANGE CAKES. Divide the or- 
anges in half, take out the seeds, and put 
the pulp and juice into a basin; boil the 
rinds in a saucepan of water, closely cover- 
ed; when very tender take them out, and 
dry them upon a cloth ; allow to a pound of 
orange rinds, two of pounded loaif sugar ; 
pound the rinds in a mortar ; add by degrees 
the sugai', and then the juice and pulp ; mix 
it thoroughly till (hick and yellow; drop it 
upon tins in small cakes, and dry them un- 
der garden glasses, or in a cool oven. If 
it be too thick to drop, let it stand a night. 

ORANGE SHERBET. Dissolve a 
pound and half of sugar in a quart of very 
pure water; take nine fine oranges and two 
leoaons; wipe them well with a napkin, and 
having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze 
on tbem the juice of these finiits ; sweeten 
this juice with the above sirup, run the whole 
through a close hair sieve, and finish in 
the uiMial way. (See Sherbet.) 

ORANGE SHRUB. Put ten pounds 
of crudied su^r to two gallons of water, 
and boil it until the sij^ar tc dissolved; skim 
it well, and put it into a tub ; when quite 
cold, pour it into a barrel ; add three quarts 
of Jamaica mm, and six quarts of orange- 
juice (take care there are no pipe.) Beat 
up the white of an eegt mix it with the 
shrub, and let it stand for a week ; then 
draw it ofi* and bottle it. 

ORANGE SUGAR. Rasp on a piece 
of suffar tlie rinds of the best oranges, but I 
so lightly that not a particle of the white is ] 



mixed with «t ; scrape off die sorfiuse of the 
su^ar as it becomes colored, and oontinae 
this operation until you have as' much sugar 
as you require ; then lay it in a stove, or at 
the mouth of the oven to dry ; when it is 
perfectly so, pass it through a very fine 
sieve. LenKMis and oedrats may be grated, 
and the sc^;ar dried in the same mamwr. 

ORANGES, GREEN. Scrape out the 
insides of the (Mranges quite cleauy then let 
than lie fi>r three days in cold wai»-, chang- 
ing the water daily, then boil them very 
slowly till the water is bitter; then put 
them into other boiling virater, set them by; 
repeating this daily tiU all the bittomess is 
attracted: make a rich sirup of the last 
water th^ are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; 
when cold, put them in ; the next day boil 
them in the sirup; repeat this till they are 
green and tender; covo- with brandy-paper. 

ORANGE, WATER ICE. Take off 

the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine 
and thin; squeeze the juice uto a basin 
with one lonon ; add half a pint <^ sirup, 
and half a pint of water; pass them tbroogfa 
a sieve, and fineexe them rich. 

ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. 
Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to grande 
phoney take it finom the fire, and pour into 
It a douert spoonful of orange-flower water ; 
stir them together well, set the mixture on 
the fire, and when warm, pour it into shal- 
low paper-cases ; 1^ it cool, and than cut it 
into cakes of any form you please. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS. Pul- 
verise a pood pinch of dried orange-flowers ; 
pound tnem with gum-dragon, previously 
dissolved in one glass of pbin, and the 
same quantity of orange-flowo* water; add 
a sufficient proportion of powder-sugar, to 
make the paste of die requisite oonsistedoe, 
which form according to your taste into 
cones, lozenges, &c. 

ORANGE-FLOWER PRALINES. 
Take a pound of very fresh white orange- 
flowers, pick, and throw them into ocM 
water; clarify, and boil two pounds of sugar 
to eouple, then put in the flowere; stir 
them with a spatula, until -your sugar re- 
gains the degree of eov^ffU; take va& pui 
from the fire, and continue, stinging till the 
sugar is separated from the flowers, and he- 
comes a powder;- set it in a stove to dry, 
then set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar 
may run through and leave the flowers, 
which put into bottles. If preserved in a 
dry place they will keep for twelve montlML 

ORANGE-FLOWERS SIRUP. €*»• 



ii 



ORG 



389 



ORG 



sfy and boil fcor poimds of mtgar to P*>^^$ 
uisn afdd tbree-q^iMUten of a poond of freah 
cMraoge-flowera picked, and boii them once ; 
then take the pan from the fire, and let it 
«tand for two nours, after which, replace it 
OD the fire; when it has had about a doien 
tx>ilingi, pour it through a sieve into anoth- 
er lanoepaD, boil the sirup to lia»€f and 
nut it aside; ^dien quite coM, bottle it. 
The flowers may be used as follows: put 
tliem into powder-suKar, with ^diich rub 
them well with your hands, till quite dry, 
then sift and put them in a stove. 

ORANGE-FLGWER WATER. Put 
into a still ten pounds of fresh gathered or- 
ange^owers, and six quarts of pure river 
water ; take particular care to close up all 
the apertures of the still perfectly, and set it 
on a moderate fire, that the ebullition may 
not be too strong; be particular in coolii^ 
it fi^uently, or, at least, whenever the wa- 
tor in the boiler becomes too warm, change 
it, aud pot in fi«sh ; much depends on the 
attention paid to this part of the operation. 
From the above quantity, three quarts of 
orange-flowoT vrater may be drawn. 

ORANGE-FLOWER DOUBLE 
Water. Draw fotu* quarts of orange- 
flower water from six quarts distilled as 
above ; put to this water the same quantity 
of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, 
and it will yield five pints. 

ORANGE PEEL TO CANDY. Take 
some orange peel, and let it soak in seve- 
ral waters till it has lost its bitterness, then 
boil it in a solution of double-refined su- 
gar in water, till it becomes tender and 
transparent. 

ORANGE PEEL TO PRESERVE. 
Gut the oran^ in halves, take out the pulp, 
put ihe peel m strong salt and spring water, 
to soak for three days, repeat tins three 
times, then put them on a sieve to dry ; 
take one pound of loaf suffar, add to it one 
quart of spring water, bou it, skim it until 
quite clear ; let the peels simmer until they 
are quite transparent; dry them before the 
file; take loaf-sugar, with just sufficient 
water to dissolve it; whilst the si^ar is 
boiling, put in the peels, stirring continually 
until all tlie sugar is candied round them, 
then put them to dry either before the fire 
or in an ovoi, and when perfectly dried, 
put them by for use. 

ORGEAT. Blanch a pound of sweet, 
and twenty-four bitter almonds ; pound them 
to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water 



occasionaily tp prevent llwir oiling; mix a 
galk>n of water, two pounds of sugar and 
orange-flower water, with this paste ; beat 
them together for some time ; then strain it 
two or mree tiroes through a jelly-bae, stir- 
ring it with a spatula. Mid serve it in d^ 
canters. 

ORGEAT PASTE. Pound die almonds 
with a little orange-flower water to a fine 
paste, and then watk up with it an equal 
weight of powder-sqgar. This paste will 
keep a long while, ami by dissolving a small 
portion of it in water, and straining it, or- 
geat may be prepared very quickly. An 
ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a 
pint of water. 

ORGEAT SIRUP. Take a pound and 
a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter 
almcmds, throw them into boiling water, and 
leave them till the skins can be removed 
with ease, then throw them into cokl water 
for a minute before you blanch them, after 
which, they must again be put into cold 
water; then pound tnem, a few at a time, 
in a marble mortar, adding occasionally 
some water to prevent their oiline; when 
all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this 
with the greater part of a quart of water, 
(of which reserve six ounces); put the 
paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and wring 
out all the milk from the idmonds, put the 
latter into the mortar, and pound them 
again, adding by degrees the remainder of 
the water, and then squeeze these also in a 
cloth; pour the whole of this milk into a 
matrass, large enough to contain, at least, 
one-third more liquid, add to it two pounds 
of lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower 
water; cork the matrass tight, and set it 
on a bain marie; when the sugar is com- 
pletely dissolved, (which sliould be accelera- 
ted by shaking tlie matrass occasionally), les- 
sen Uie fire by degrees, and as soon as the 
vessel is quite cold, put the sirup into bottles. 

If you should have no matrass, you may 
make your sirup in the following manner: 
boil the above mentioned quantity of sugar 
to forte plume, then add the milk of al« 
monds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, 
take it from the fire ; when coM, flavor it 
with a pint of orange-flower water. 

Or this sirup may be made in a still more 
simple way, as thiut: put the milk of al- 
monds into some pounded su^ar, without 
being clarified or boiled previously ; vrhea 
the sirup begins to boil, add about a coflee- 
cupful of orange-flower water, and after it 
has boiled up two or three times, take it 
from the fire; let it get quite cold before 
you bottle it. Keep it well corked 



PAB 



390 



F£A 



P. 



PARFAIT AMOUR. Take four iwry 
ime fregh oednits, pcMre ihem vera thin, and 
infuBe them with half an ounce of fine cinna- 
mon, and four ounces of coriander, in three 
gallom of strong brandy, and a quart of wa- 
ter, for a week or ten days, wbea distil it 
in the kain mmries this quantity of brandy, 
if good, will yield two gallons and half a 
pint of spirit. Dissolve three pounds and a 
naif of si^jar in seven pints of river water, 
color it with cochineal, then add it to the 
spirit, filter, and bottle it. 

PASTILLES. To make these articles, 
it is necessary to have a small copper stew- 
pan that will hoM about a pint, rather deep 
than wide, with a pointed lip on the right 
side, and a tolerably Ich^ handle, alao two 
pieces of wood, one about eighteen incites 
KMig, and four in diameter, called the baia 
a tabtUer, the other about half the length, 
one inch in diameter, and the lower end, 
pointed so that it will exactly fit the lip of 
the pan ; tliis is called the boU a egoutter; 
six or eight tin plates about the sixe of a 
riieet of letteT'papar. 

For the best paatille; take a poimd of 
double-refined sugar reduced to an impalpa- 
ble powder ; sift it through a tammy on a 
sheet of white papery put four or five spoon- 
fuls of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a 
little orange-flower water, and beat it well 
with the ktrger stick, until the preparation 
is sufficiently thin to run from the stick 
without being clear ; if it be so, more sugar 
must be added. Put the pan over a chafing- 
dish filled with live coals, and let it stand 
(stirring constantly) till it boib; then take 
it off the chafing-dish, add two more spoon- 
fuls of sugar, work it up well, scrape away 
whatever sugar adheres to tiie stick, set it 
aside, and take the smaller stick in vour 
right hand, hold the pan in your left (slant- 
ing) over one of tlie tin-plates; the sugar 
will, by these means, flow to the lip, then 
strike the point of the stick into the lip of 
the pan, which action will separate the 
liquid, so that each time the stick strikes 
the lip a single drop of the preparation will 
foil on the tin ; a little practice will be ne- 
cessary before this operation can be perform- 
ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. 
is used, replenish the pan and proceed as 
above directed, until you have as many 
pa»tille» as you may require. When cold 
and hard, remove them from the tins with 
your hand, and keep them in boxes in a 
dry place. You may, if you please^ colw 
the patHlUs, taking care to perfume them 
with a corresponding odour. 



PASTIUUBS, COlUiOir. 

made in the same manner m 
the diffareace Consists in Ifae bmii 
(whidi are a quarter of a poond W 
to tiur«e'<qiiBrters of « pawad of wignr) 
the perfiimeB are omitted. 



PASTILLAGES. Pot Mro oonoes of 

well-washed gam dragon into an eardiea 
pan, witltas much clear hot watei as wiH 
cover it, lay a sheet oi paper to keep eat 
the dost, and let it atand tweoty-ibar howx; 
then squeeae it tfan>u|^ a ooarae oloth into 
a marble mortar, and add to it as mndi 
starch and sugar (both in pow^r) as the 
sum water will contain ; pcmnd lliese ingre- 
dioits well, and ittrain them Chroogh a taanay 
into a pan wfaidi keep covered irith a dai^> 
ckith. This pastillage is used to form the 
ornamental parts ai pastry and coafeetioa- 
ary, sudi as temples, baskets, Ibc., and may 
be tinged of the requisite idiades, by mix- 
ing with it any of the ooV>rii^ materials. 

PEACHES IN A COMPOTE. Ort 

yiMir peaches in half «ake out the stones, 
peel them, then set lem on the fire in a 
sugar-pan, with a c^tlicient quantity of thick 
clarified sugar to cover fhem, and let them 
simmer in this gently till done ; then take 
them out in a basin, put in the kem^ to 
the sugar, and let it boil until tolerably thick; 
put in the joioe of two or three lemons, and 
pour the sirup over the peaches ; serve them 
in a deep hot dish. 

PEARS IN BRANDY. Take some 
beurre pears, not too ripe, put them into a I 
saucepan with a sufficient quantity of water 
to cover them, set them on the fire, and let 
tiiem simmer, but not boil, until the pears 
will yield to the pressure of your finger; 
then change them' into cold water; pare 
them with the greatest care, so tliat not a 
single spot may remain ; prick, and put them 
again on the fire in fresh water and the juice 
of a lemon; let them boil very fiist. As 
soon as the pears are soft enough for the 
head of a pin to penetrate them easily, take 
them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay 
tliem in cold water. In Uie meantime, bav- 
in? boiled your sugar to liste, pour the 
boiling sirup on the pears, (previously 
drain^ from the water,) and leave tliera. 
The next day drain off the simp, boil it to 
la nappe, then put in tlie pears, give tliem 
a boil also ; proceed in the same manner ntk 
the third day, after which, drain tlie fruit, 
and put it into bottles. Boil up the sirup a 
few more times, let it cool, and then pour 
on it some brandy, (three-fixirths of die 
quantity of the sirup;) run the mixture 
through a bag, put it to the pears, and cork 
the bottles well. 



J 



PIS 



291 



PI-XJ 



PEABS CANDIED. Ara done like 
apricots. 

PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some 
.good sized pears, cut them in halves, and 
put them into boiling water; when soft, 
change them into cold water, in which 
squeeze a little lemon-juice. Boil some 
clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the 
water, and then pot them into the simp; 
boil together until the pears are sufSciently 
done ; skim, and place them in tlie eompO' 
tier. A little Buipjndy wine and prepared 
cochineal will give the compote a red color. 

PEAR MARMALADE. Take six 
pounds of small pears and (bur pounds of 
sugar; put the pears into a saucepan with 
a little water, set it on the fire ; wlien the 
fruit is sofl, take them out, pare, quarter, 
and core them ; as you do this, throw each 
piece into cold water, in another saucepan, 
and when all sre done, set them on the fire. 
As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub 
them through a sieve, and havmg in •the 
meantime clarified and boiled the sugar to 
petit liaee, pour the sirup to the pulp, set it 
on the fire, and stir diem together until the 
marmalade is of the  proper consistence ; 
then take it ofi", put it into potB, and when 
cold, tie them down. 

PERSICA. Cut about one hundred 
peach leaves, put them into a wide-moutlied 
lx>ttle, pour on tliera a quart of die bc»t 
brandy, cork it close ; in three weeks strain 
it off, and put to it an equal quantity of ca- 
pillaire. It is good in custards, puddings, 
and as a liqueur. 

PINE APPLE CHIPS. Pane and 
trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each 
half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; 
take lialf the weight of the fi*uit in powder- 
sugar: lay the slices in a basin, with sugar 
strewed between ; let it stand till tlie sugar 
be dissolved, then set it on a moderate fire 
to simmer till the chips be quite clear, when 
set it by. The next day remove all tlie 
sirup from the slices, place them on glasses, 
and dry them in a gentle oven. 

PINE APPLE IN A COMPOTE. 

Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, 
but not too thin; have some sugar • on the 
fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices 
of pine, and let them boil gently till the sirup 
is tolerably thick, then take out the pine, 
and ky it on a dish; mix with the sugar, 
the jnice of a couple of lemons, and pour it 
over the pine. 

PISTACHIO MARCHPANE. Put a 
pound and a half of pistachios into a mortar, 

25 



pound them, moistening widi white 4>f egg, 
to a very fine paste ; in the meantime clari- 
fy the same^antity of sugar, boil it to petit 
Ooule; then take the pan from the fire, put 
in the pistachios, stir them together well, 
replace the pan on hot ashes, continually 
stirring, till the paste is of a proper consis 
tence, then pour it on a slab well sprinkled 
with sugar; as soon as it is coM, cut it into 
whatever forms your &ncy may .dictate. 

PLUMS, IN BRANDY. Take twelve 
pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, and 
three pounds of sugar ; the fruit should V^ 
turned in color, but not ripe ; prick, and put 
them into a saucepan with cold water, set 
them on the fire; when the water boils and 
die plums rise, take them out carefully with 
a skimmer and put them into a pan of cold 
wat^r; clarify and boil the sugar to petit 
liaee, put the plums to it, and give them a 
boil ; die' two succeeding days, drain off 
and boil the sirup, first alone, and' after- 
wards widi die fruit; the third day drain 
the plums, and put diem into Ijotdes ; then 
boil the sirup to la nappe, and when cold, 
add to it three-fourths of its quantity of the 
best brandy, stir it well, strain and pour the 
mixture over the plums. Cork the bottles 
tight. Gi-een-gage plums are done like 
apricots. (See Aprieote in Brandy.) 

PLUMS CANDIED. Choose your 
fruit of a nice shape and good size; cut 
them in halves, lay them on a large shallow 
dish, strew powder-sugar over, and put 
them into a moderate oven, tightly closed ; 
in half an hour's time, take tbem out, and 
|<}ace the plums one by one on glass plates 
to dry. 

PLUMS, CLEAR CAKES OF. Fifl 
ajar with die white pear plums, set it in a 
saucepan of boiling water on'tbe fire; when 
sufficiently done, let the clear juice run 
from it, and to every pint of it, add an equal 
quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; 
put the juice to the sirup, set it on the fire, 
and keep stirring it till the whole is qnite 
hot, but not boiling; then pour it into glass- 
es, and dry die cakes in a stove. 

PLUMS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
six pounds of plums, and four pounds of 
sugar ; stone, and put the fi*uit into a cul- 
lender, beat it through with a wooden pestle 
into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire, 
to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly. In 
the meantime, clari^ and boil the sugar to 
petit caeae, then mix it with the fruit (still 
on the fire,) stir it till the whole is of the 
consistence of jelly, dien take it off, and 
pour the marmalade into pots. 

If the plums are not quite ripe, they must 



POM 



292 



POO 



be boHed oooe or twice belbre they are 
preMed through the callender. Some of 
the kemeb may be added, if approved; 
they ■hould be pounded belbre patting in the 
marmalade. 

PLUMS PRESERVED, DRY. Gath- 
er the plums wlien full grown and just turn- 
ing cokHT, pi ick and put them into a saucepan 
of cold water, set them on the fire until the 
water is on the point of boiling ; tlien take 
them out, drain and boil them well in some 
clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil 
them again ; if diey shrink and will not take 
the MUgar, prick tliem as they la^ in tlie pan, 
and then give them anotlier boil, skim and 
set them bv: the next day, add some more 
sugar, boiled to touffie, to the fiiiit, and 
sirup, then do tliem togetlier} place them 
in a stove till next d^iy, when Hiain tlie 
phitns from tlie sirup, sprinkle a little pow- 
der-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. 

PI.UMS, PRESERVED LIQUID. 

Gather the plums green, firm, and when the 
stone mviy be extracted witli ease, cut the 
stalks close, and prick the fruit in several 
places, especially round the stalk; then 
place them in a saucepan of water over the 
fire, anj as soon as the water is ready to 
bi)i1, take the saucepan from the fire; in 
r>ur-Hnd-twenty hours, replace the plums in 
die same water on a gentle fire, with a small 
quantity of verjuice to preserve their color. 
Keep ihe water hot, without allowing it to 
b«)il, for three houi*8, stirring it occasional- 
ly ; when the fruit is jierfectly green, iucreafe 
die lieat till the plums rise to the surface, 
when they must he taken out and thrown 
into cold water, which change frequently till 
tlie plums are perfectly cold, then drain 
tliem. Put the fiuit in some sugar boiled to 
la nappe, boil tliem up a few times, adding 
a little water; skim, and then pour the 
whole into a pan ; tlie next two days, drain 
off the sirup, and increase tlie degree of 
boiling each day; tlie third and foui'tli days, 
boil tlie fruit with the sirup, keeping them 
covered, and increasing the degree, until the 
last time, it reaches to perle. Put the 
preserve into pots, and place them for two 
days in a stove. 

The same fruit may be preserved dry 
also. The operation is the same, but the 
sirup is drained off, and the plums laid on 
tin plates before tliey are put into the stove. 

POMEGRANATE CLEAR CAKES. 
Pare some good boiling apples, and put them 
into a saucepan with as much water as will 
cover them, set tliem on the fire, and when 
perfectly soft, press tlie pulp through a sieve, 
and then strain it. Boil tliis jelly with the 1 



juice of two or three pomegranateSy that of 
one orange, and one lemon, and the irnd itf 
each grated'; strain it again, and to evciy 
pound of jelly add a pcrand and a qoarter 
<^ fine Bogar, boiled till it cracks, color it 
with cochineal ; poor it into glaases (taking 
off the scum befi>re it becc»nes cold). Set 
them in a stove, and when the top is dry, 
tiurn them oat, and pot them to dry again; 
then cut them into whatever Ibrms yn 
please, put them into the stove or oven to 
harden, then lay them on sieves, and when 
thorou«^hly dry, place them in boxes widi 
paper between. As they are apt to become 
moist, tliey should be looked at frequently. 



POMEGRANATE 
PARENT. Take 

very fine pomegranates 
the juice by pressing 
horse-hair sieve; filter 
with some simp tinged 
a little cochineal; add 
and finish as tiswil. 



JELLY, TRANS- 
the seeds from five 
, from which extract 

it hard throogh a 
this juice and mix it 
of a rose color, with 

tlie isinglass to this, 
(See Jelly rruti,) 



POMEGRANATE SIRUP. Take 

five very ripe large pomegranates, extract, 
the seeds (which must be very red) ; cnisli, 
and put them into a skillet, with half a 
pint of water; set them on the fire till soft, 
and then R(]uceze the juice through a new 
coarse cloth ; clarify a pound and half of 
!>u"[ar, and boil it to souffle, tlien add tlw 
juice, boil them together to the usual con* 
^ietcnce of simps. I| must not be bottled 
until ({uite cold. This number of pome- 
granates will yield a quart of sirup. 

POUPELIN. Put into a saucepan fbi» 
glasses of water, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, the zeste of a lemon, and a pinch 
of fine salt ; set it on the fire, and as sooa 
as it begins to boil, take it off, and put in 
as much sifted fiour as will make a paste 
the consistence of choux, then replace it 
on tlie fire, and l^cep stirring till it dries; 
make a similar mixture, and wlien that 
also is dry, put both into a mortar, with 
half a fiound of powfier sugar, an ounce of 
orange-fiovvers, and two ^gs at a time, un- 
til five and twenty or thirty are used, fay 
which time the paste will be of the proper 
consistence, then pour it into a lightty but- 
tered tin; put it into a moderate oven, and 
leave it. lu three hours' time, if the 
poupelin is of a nice gold color, take it 
out, cut off the top, and with a spoon re- 
move all tlie inside, then set it in the 
oven to dry. When cold, spread all over 
the interior apricot raannalade, on which 
strew sweet macaroons crushed, then tun 
it on a dish, and serve. 



J 



RAS 



293 



KOS 



Q. 



QUINCE CAKES. Pare and core 
half a dozen quinces, boil them till quite 
soft; tben rub the pulp through a sieve, and 
strain it; mix this with half a pint of sirup 
of quinces, and the same of sirup of barber- 
ries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar ; 
boil the whole to etute, and then pour it 
into small shallow moulds, of any shape 
you please ; let them cool a little, and then 
dry them in a stove. 

QUINCE CAKES TRANSPARENT. 
Take a quart of sirup of quinces, and half a 
pint of the sinip of barberries; set them on 
a gentle fire, boi and skim them well ; then 
add two pounds and a half of fine sugar, 
heep stirrmg until it reaches candy height ; 
then take it off, and when nearly cold, lay 
it, in any form yon please, on tin plates. 
Dry them in a stove. 



R. 

RASPBERRY CAKES. Gather some 
raspberries before they are quite ripe, pick, 
and lav them in a stove to dry; then beat 
them m a mortar. Take a pound and 
quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to 
easse't then weigh half a pound of raspber- 
ries, dried as above; throw th»n into the 
sirup, wiUi half a spoonful of white of c^, 
beaten in cream ; stir it carefiilly, give it a 
boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. 

RASPBERRIES OF MARCHPANE. 
Take a pound of marchpane, the juice of 
lour lemons, a quarter ot a pound of rasp- 
berry jelly, and a little cochineal ; mix these 
together with a strone wooden spatula ; then 
add two handfuld of fiour, and some powder 
sugar ; when well worked up, roll them into 
pieces about the size of a finger, cut these 
into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the 
tSp into a point, so as to resemble the form 
of a raspberry: then put them one by one 
into paper cases, which place in a dry 
warm place, for eight or ten days. At the 
end of that time, put a portion of sirup of 
raspberries, a little oochmeal, and a small 
quantity of powder-sugar into a pan ; mix 
them together with a spoon, and then tlirow 
into it a couple of handfuls of the i-as|^r- 
ries; take the pan in both hands, and shake 
it about, so that the raspberries may be 
eqtKdIy covered with the red simp; then 
put sugar a la grele on a laige sheet of 
paper, spread it out a little, and while the 
Itupberries are wet with iie sirup, throw 



them into the sugar; thai take the four 
comers of the paper, shake it about weU« 
by which means the sugar will adhere to 
the raspberries in all parts, and eive them 
a perfect resemblance to the real miit; take 
them out carefully one by one, lay them on 
paper, and put them in a warm place for 
some daj-s. These artificial raspberries are 
of a pleasant flavor, and will keep several 
years. 

RASPBERRY MARMALADE. Take 
double the weight of raspberries to that of 
sugar. Rub tfa« fruit through a sieve, and 
put the pulp into a saucepan ; set it on the 
fire, and stir till it is reduced to half ; then 
pour on the sugar, previously clarified and 
boiled to petit bouU, stir it well in, put it 
on the fire, give it a few boils, and then 
pour it into pots. 

RASPBERRIES PRESERVED. Take 

five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe 
raspberries, pick, and put them into a pre- 
serving pan, with an equal weight of clari- 
fied sugar, boiled to petit bouhs when 
they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim, and pour the whole into a pan till the 
next day, tlien drain the fruit, and put it 
into jai's ; put to the sirup about two glass- 
es of cherry juice, previously strained; boil 
the sugar to la nappe^ and then pour it 
over the raspberries ; add afterwards, about 
a spoonful of currant jelly to each pot, and 
when cold, lay on brandy papers, and tie 
them down. 

RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Take 
ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 
and a half of raspberries, five pounds and a 
half of red and two pounds of black cur- 
rants; pick, and mix these fruits together, 
press the juice from them, measure it, and 
for every quart of juice, take half a pound 
of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy; 
dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in 
the brandy, a drachm of mace, ana two 
drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand 
some time, fiker, and bottle it. Keep them 
well corked. 

ROSES, CAN DIED. Crisp two hand- 
fuls of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar^ 
boil them to fort Bottffle, then take the pan 
fi'om the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the sir- 
up run firom the leaves, rubbing the latter in 
your hands, then dry ihem in a stove. Boil 
your sugar again to souffle, adding a little 
carmine to color it, have a pro|)er mould 
ready, pour the sugar into it, and put the 
flowers on it, push them down lightly with 
a fork, that they may be completely cover- 
ed with the sugar ; place the mould in a 
moderate stove or oven for five days, then 



SEB 



iSM 



&TR 



4raio off thB nnip; lay a ilmt of paper on 
tbe table, ani tuni tos candy qaickly out 
•fthemouki. 

ROSES, CONSERVE OF. BoU half 
a pound of wgar to f^rt Mf^ffU, poor into 
thM uiup the beet double-disuued roee 
water; boil it again to fcrt perU, mix 
wiUi it a little prepared eoebioeal or car- 
mine to color it, and pour your coneerve 
into monlda. 

ROSE RED DROPS. Take a small 
quantity of red boetard lafioii, and a little 
ealcined ahun, boil tfaeee in eome water until 
it is snflkiently tia^^ for your purpose; 
then filter or strain it thro^gb a ^nery close 
linen clotb ; put five or six spoonfuls of sift- 
ed sugar into the pan, dilute it with the 
colored water, work it well with the boi§ a 
tabeller, and set it over a chafing-dish ; whm 
it begins to boil, add two more spoooiils 
of sivar, wmI having worked it well, per- 
linne it with some drops of essence c^ roses, 
and finkh ae dareded. (See Oraufs-^foin- 
ar Drop9.y 

ROSSOLS. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of picked orange-flowen, a pound 
of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, 
and two of cloves (both bruised) ; put them 
into a cucurbite with three gallons of pure 
water; on distilling this, it will yield a gal- 
lon and a half, in which dissolve twdve 
pounds of fine sqgar brokoB up; add to it 
an equal quantity <^ spirit of jessamine, col- 
or it crimson with cochineal, filter and bot- 
tle it 



S. 



SEEDS, SUGARED. These are done 
in the same manner as sngared ahnonds. 
The seeds most generally used for this pur- 
pose are anise, cummin, and fennel. , 

The best method of proceeding is as fol- 
lows: place a small preserving-pan over a 
charcoal fire, on the side of which have a 
chafing difih, on which keep a pan with a 
quantity of sugar boiled to UtMes (this su- 
sar should be kept quite hot, but not boil- 
ing) ; on the cMher side have some fine pow- 
der. Whensofiir prepared, put your seeds 
into the pan, and as soon as diey besin to 
bent, Dour over them a large spoonful or 
two or the sirup; stir them about, that all 
may be thoroughly saturated with it ; then 
sprinkle over it a handfiil or two of powder, 
still shaking the pan to make the seeds 
equally white. When drv, pour on some 
mora simp, then the powder, and continue 
this alternately until your seeds are suf- 



ficiently larpfe; then lay them oo a sieves 
keep them in a wann place fi>r some days, 
after which put them into glaas bottles. 

SOUFFLE FRANCAIS. Ifoke a 
erouttade eleven inches in dinmtiiii, and 
three and three qiinrtera io height; pat 
round it three sheoto nf bottcved paper, and 
bake it. ^^ 

Take twelve glasBos of boilMg rnOk,, k 
which infuse whatever ianedieats yov m^ 
think proper, such as vanfila, ooflfee, otmngn- 
flowecB, &c. (the proportions wiH be fiwad 
under die different articles). In the niean> 
time, wash a pound of rice tborvM^hly in 
warm water, then put it into a anucepaii 
of oold vrater, and when it has boiled a fem* 
minutes, strain the rice, and pot it with 
youi ii^iMi into another saooepan. Mid 
set it aaain on the fire; as soon as it boih, 
phce tne saucepan on hot asheo^ that tl« 
rioe may burst nadnally; in thnee-qnarlen 
ol an lionr, add a pound of nowden^eq^ary 
three^uarters of a pound of fnesh httuy 
and a pinch of salt, stir them well in; puff 
firesh hot ashes under the sanc^nn, that the 
rice may be kept constantly simmering fee 
an hour, by which time it ought to be per- 
fectly soft, and should be nibbed through a 
boltmg-eloth quickly, like a jwtm/ put this 
into another sancepan over hot aafaea, to 
keep it warm. Take sixteen eoge, aep^ 
rate the yolks and whites, beat & Ibraaev 
well, and whisk the latter till nearly firm; 
thai nux the yolka with the rioe (takii^ 
off the ashes) ; the preparation ought to k» 
of the same ooasistenoe as a cream jiolis- 
tiere; add, at first, a mnrter, and aAei^ 
wards the whole of the whites; stir them in 
as lightly as for biscuit paste; the whole b»> 
ing thorooghly amatgamated, pear it into 
the crotcstode, and place it in a moderafta 
oven for two hours and a half; when dam, 
cover a baking tin with red eindcHns, on 
which place the ttn^BfU the moment it ia 
taken out of the oven; this prevenla ita 
felling, whilst you mask it with powder> 
su^r, and glaae with the salamander; car- 
ry it into the diniognroom on a tin, ham a 
(Ush ready with a napkin folded on it; 
place the Bouffit on the dish, and let it be 
served immediately. Remember tha^ a 
soi|^< cannot be served too (yiickfy. 

STRAWBERRY, COMPOTE OP. 
This is made in the same manner na Ras|>- 
berries, (uily that the strawbories do not 
require being mixed with any other fivit. 

STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. T^e 
some very ripe fresh strawbeVries, pidt, and 
crush them through a tammy. For every 
dessert spoonful of juice, allow six ounces 
of sugar; boil this to fort perU^ take it 






SUG 



295 



SUG 




off the fire, and poor in the juice; stir them 
together with a silver spoon, until the con- 
■erve b^ins to whiten and drv, then put it 
into mpulds or paper cases. Ii the conserve 
be too white, add a little OArmine to the 
sirup. 

STRAWBERRY MARCHPANE. 
Take two pounds of sweet almonds, two 
pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of 
picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to 
a fine paste, and mix them with the sugar 
(boiled to petit boule;) crush, and strain 
the juice of the fruit, which add to the al- 
mond paste and sirup ; stir the mixture well, 
t it on hot ashes, and continue stirring until 

paste is sufllciently done; tliis may be- 
proved by laying a piece on the back of your 
hand; if it may be removed without its 
sticking, it is enou^ ; when cold, spread it 
over a slab, and cut it of any size and shape 
you think proper. 

SUGAR, TO CLARIFY. Take four 
pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces ; 
put into a preserving-pan the white of an 
egg, and a glass of pure spring water; mix 
them well with a whisk, add another glass, 
still whipping, until two quarts of water 
have been put in ; when the pan is full of 
froth, throw in the sugar, and set it on the 
fire, being careful to wim it every time the 
aeum rises, which will be the case as the 
sugar boils up. Afier a few boilings, the 
sugar will rise so high as to run over the 
edges of the pan, to prevent which, throw 
on it a little cold water ; this will lower it 
instantly, and give time for the skimming, 
for the scum should never be taken off whilst 
the sugar is bubbling ; the cold water stills 
it, and that is the moment to skim it. Re- 
peat this operation car^Uy three or four 
times, when a whitish light scum only will 
rise ; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, 
slightly wetted, over a basin, and pour the 
^uear through it. 

The scum thus taken off, put into a china 

basin; and when the sugar is clarified, wash 

the pan and the skimmer with a glass of 

water, which put to the scum, and set it 

* aside for more common purposes. 

SUGAR, Different Degrees of Pre- 
paring. The various purposes to which 
sugar is applied, require it to be in different 
states; these are called degrees, and are 
thirteen in number, called as follows: 

Petit Usee, or First Degree. Re- 
place the clarified sugar in the praserving- 
pan, to boil gently, take a drop of it on tlie 
thumb, toudi it with the fore> finger; if, on 
opening them, it draws to a fine thread, and 
in breauiing, forms two drops on each finger, 
h is at the right point. 

25* 



lAeee, Second Degree. A little mow 
boiling brings it to this point; when the 
thread will draw further before it breaks. 

PetU Perle, Third Degree. At this 
point tlie thread may be drawn as &r as the 
span will open, without breaking. 

Crrand Perle, Fourth Degree. On 
still increasing the boiling, little raised balls 
are formed on tlie surfiice of the sugar. 

Petit Queue de Coehon, Fifth Degree* 
Take up some of the sugar on a skimmer, 
and drop it on the rest, when it should form 
a slanting streak on the sur&ce. Boil it a 
little longer, and it will reach the 

Orande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth 
Degree. The streak or tail is now lai^r. 

Souffle, Seventh Degree. Take out a 
skimmerful of the sugar, blow through it, 
and small sparks of sugar will fly from it. 

Petit-Plume, Eighth Degree. The 
same proof as above; the sparks should be 
lai'ger a..d stronger. 

Grande Plume, Ninth Degree. Take 
the si^r in the skimmer, as before, give it 
a shake, and, if the sparks are large, and 
adhere together on rising, it is at the right 
point. 

Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree. Dip 
your fingers in cold water, and then into 
the sugar instantly, and again into the wa- 
ter, when the sugar will roll into a ball, 
which will be supple when •cold. 

Gros Boulet, Eleventh Degree. At 
this point, tlie ball or bullet will be harder 
when cold than at the last. 

Caste, Twelfth Degree. Prove as 
above; the bullet should crumble between 
the fingers, and on biting, will stick to the 
teeth ; at the next point. 

Caramel, Thirteenth Degree, It 
should snap clean. This point is vefV diffi- 
cult to attain, for in increasing the hei^t, 
the sugar is apt to bum ; it is better there- 
fore to try the proof veiy frequently. 
•Another caramel is frequently used by the 
confectioner, and is of a deep color; it is 
made by putting a little water to the sugar, 
and boiling it without skimming, or other- 
wise touching tlie sugar, till of the ^ight 
color, then take it off and use immediately. 

If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to 
miss the right point, add a little cold water,^ 
and boil once more. 

Observations. — ^The skimmer should 
never be left in the preserving-pan after the 
sugar is claiified, nor after the scum is re- 
moved. 

Be very careful not to stir or distudb the 
sugar, as that would cause its diminution. 

In boiling the sugar (particularly the Iwe 
last degrees), tiie sugar is continually rising 
and felling; and on felling, leaves marks on 
the sides of the pan, whidi the lieat of the 
fire would soon buiu, and thereby spoil the 



TRl 



396 



YAH 



wfaois 9t the angv; to avoid this, haf« by 
the tide of you a pu of oold water, and a 
■pooge» witn whidi wipe tlie lidet of the 

SUGAR UKE SNOW. Bboeh a 
ooBrter of a pound of bitter almonds, pound 
tiiem to a vei^ fine paste ia a marble mor- 
tar, with the whiles of four ens; when 
periectly smooth, add a pound of the best 
Imap sugar (in powder), and five or six 
more whites of e^; stir all together well, 
until of such consistence that it may be 
kneaded without adhering lo the bands. 
Divide this preparaticm into two parts, one 
of which, tinge of a red color, either with 
6oliis wrwuna^ or cochineal, and perfume it 
with essential oil of roses or bergamot; 
leave the other portion of pnste while, but 
flavor it as follows:— grste die rind of two 
fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, 
scrape off the surfooe, and when pounded in 
a small mortar, work it into the unoolored 
portion of sugar-paste, then roll it out to about 
oalf an inch in thickness (having previously 
sprinkled the slab with powder-sugar,) cut 
it with a tin-paste cutter about two inches 
diameter; arrange them <m white paper, 
which place on a baking tin, and put them 
into a moderate oven for about three-quar- 
ters of an hour ; proceed in the same manner 
with the colored paste. When cold, detach 
them from the paper. 

SUGAR PASTE. Take a pound of 
flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quar- 
ter of a pound <^ butter, a little salt, one 
en; mix all together with a little water. 
Tiiis paste may be used for any second- 
course dish. 



T. 



TABLET OF PATIENCE. Take 
eight egn, and whip die whites to a firm 
snow; m the ipeantime have the yolks 
beaten up with six oimoes of powdo'-sugar ; 
(bodi these operations ^ould be performed 
for at least half an hour) ; then mix the two 
together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and 
when well incorporated, pour in half a (unt 
of rose or orange-flowor water; stir the 
whole together for some time. Have ready 
some tin plates, well rubbed with butter; 
take a fimnel that has three or four tubes, 
fill it with the paste, and push out your 
tableU; when the tin plates are full, put 
them into a prettv warm oven. When done, 
take them from the tins whibt hot. 

TRIFLE. (1) Sweeten three pints o( 



; add to it halfa pimof 1 
^te ia the rind of a lenson, sqaeeoe in the 
juice, and grate in halfa nutnaeg; whisk this 
up, lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve 
over a dish that has ratafia cakes, maca- 
roons, sweet almonds, blancbed and pouad- 
ed, citron, and candied orange-peel, cut into 
somll pieces, some currant jellf, aiid rasp- 
berry jam in it, that the liquor nay run 
upon them ; when they are soaked, lay tbem 
in the dish you int«Ml to serve in, pot oo the 
froth as high as possible, well draiaed; 
strew over nonpareils, and stick on Uttle 
slices of citron, orai^, or lemon-peel. 




TRIFLE. (2) Lay 
and ratafia drops over the bottom of _ 
dish, and soak them well with raisin wine,^ 
when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold 
custard. It must stand two or three inches 
thick ; on tliat pot a layer of raspberry jam, 
and cover the whole with a very high whip 
made the preceding day, of rich cream, the 
whites of two ^gs, well beaten, sugar, lem- 
on-peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a 
whisk. It is best to make it the day b^ore 
it is wanted, beii^ more solid and better 
tasted. 

TRIFLE. (3) Put halfa pound of maca. 
roons into a dish, pour over them some white 
wine, and a pint of custard over that, make 
a whip, and put on it; garnish accxM'ding to 
your iancy. 



V. 



VANILLA CREAM. Take two 
drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the 
yolks of three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and 
a pint of cream ; beat up the eggs wtil with 
the milk, and then add the oUier ingredients ; 
set the whole on a moderate fire, and stir it 
constantly with a wooden spoon, till the 
cream will adliere to it; then strain, and 
serve it cold. 

VANILLA CREAM, BOLTED. 
Take as much cream as will fill the mould 
you intend to use, and boil it iq) a few 
times, with the proportionate quantities of 
vanilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if 
the mould will contain a quart, mix twdia 
yolks and three whole ^gs with the creamy 
and run it five times throwh a boltin^f cloth. 
Butter the mould, pour the cream »to it» 
and place it in the bari marts, bo» noit too 
hot ; when the cream is set, which you may 
know by touching it gently with your finger, 
torn it on a dish; take the remaiadN* of 
the cream, stir it over the fire like whilt 



i 



VER 



297 



VIO 



■^Jt 



Mooe, and as soon as it sticks to the spoon 
(which must be of wood), take it off, stir it 
an instant, and then pour it ovar the other 
cream, and serve cola. 

VANILLA CREAM WHIPPED. Put 

a pinch of sum-dragon into a pint of cream, 
ada a small quantity of orange-flower water, 
powder-sugar to the taste, and a little milk, 
in which some vanilla has been boiled, and 
the milk strained; whip these ingredients 
with a whisk, until the whole is sufficiently 
frothed ; then lay it carefully on a dish, in a 
pyramidal form, and serve it.' 

VANILLA CREAM ICE. Whisk the 
whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a 
preserving pan, pour on them the yolks of 
eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, whip the 
whole well witli a whisk, and pour in by de- 
grees two quarts of boiling cream; continue 
to whip it for some little time, and then put 
it on the fire, with lialf an ounce of vantlla 
bruised; still whipping, when it has boiled 
up three or four times, strain it, and fi-eeze 
as usual. (See /ce.) 

VANILLA CREAM LIQUEUR. 
Dissolve over the fire two pounds ten ounces 
of broken sugar, in three pints of purified 
river water; when it has boiled up once, 
pour it into a jar, on three drachms of va- 
nilla, cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. 
When quite coM, add three pints of good 
brandy, cover tlie vessel, and when it has 
infused six days, color it with a little pre- 
pared cocliineal; filter, and bottle the li- 
queur, Cork the bottles tight, and seal the 
corks. 

VANILLA STICKS. Take some 
marchpane paste, a quarter of a pound of 
chocolate, and the same of vanilla; mix 
these well into the paste, and then form it 
into sticks, like the vanilla in its original 
form; ky them <ni a sheet of paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

VERDE. Infuse the rind of three lem- 
ons and four oranges in two quarts of rum 
or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, close- 
ly stoppea ; then squeeze the juice through 
a strainer; if the fruit is good, tliere will be 
half a pint, and if there is not so much, make 
it that; add to it a pound and a quarter of 
sugar, pour to it tbi'ee quarts of water, and 
keep stirring till all the su^r is dissolved ; 
when it is dissolved, stir m the peel and 
spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk ; 

J ass it through a bag till clear; bottle it. 
t will keep good for twelve months. 

VEPJUICE. (1) Veijuice^stheyoune, 
unripe, anU soar grape; it is frequenlly 



used in French cookery, but very rarely put 
into English dishes. 

VERJUICE. (2) Take some crab 
apples when the kernels turn black, lay them 
in a heap to sweat ; then pick them from 
the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a 
mash, and press the juice through a bag of 
coarse hair clotli into a clean vessel ; it will 
be fit for use in a month *s time. If inten- 
ded for while pickles, distil it in.a cold still. 
It may be put into sauces when lemon is 
wanting. 

VESPETRO. Take half a pound of 
each of the following seeds: angelica, cori- 
ander, fennel, and caraway, the rinds of 
four lemons, and as many oranges, infine all 
these m two gallons and a half of the best 
brandy, close the vcMsel hermetically. In 
five days time, distil it in the bain mari$ 
alembic, and draw from the above quantity 
five quaiis of liqueur. Dissolve seven 
pouncu of sugar in a gallon of pure river 
water ; add this sirup to the liqueur, filter, 
and bottle it. 

VIOLETS CANDIED. Pick off the 
green stalks fi^m some double violets ; boil 
some sugar to aouffle; put in the violets, 
and keep tliem in till the sugar again boils 
to eouffies tlien rub the sugar against the 
sides of the pan until it is white ; stir all 
together till tlie sugar leaves tlie violets, and 
then sift and dry tliem. 

VIOLETS TO ROCK CANDY, 

Pick the leaves ofi' the violets; thpn boil 
some of the best, and finest sugar to aot^e, 
pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in 
the form of a drippiug-pan, about three inches 
deep; then strew tlie violet leaves as tliick 
as possible on the top, and put it into a hot 
stove, in which let it remain for ten days; 
when it is hard candied, break a hole in one 
corner of it, and drain off all the sirup; 
break it out, and place it in heaps upon a 
tin to dry in a stove. 

VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. TakA 
a quarter of a pound of early violets, picked ; 
bruise tliem in a mortar; boil two pounds 
of sugar to cosse, take it off, put in the pulp, 
and mix them together over the fire, and 
when the sugar bubbles up, pour the conserve 
into the moulds. 

VIOLET DROPS. (1) Take a cer- 
tain quantity of sirup of violets, which mix 
with an equal portion of water; use this 
mixture, and make your drops precisely as 
directed. Vou may, if yuu please, perfume 
it with oil of violets, but tliat is not neces- 
sary, as the sirup, imparls sufficient odour 



VIO 



296 



WOR 



VIOLET DROPS. (2) TUce the 
jaioe of lix lemoos, mix with it ■onie finehr 
sifted powdered augar, and two ipooafiiw 
of fBncw of TioletB, and color it of • fine 
Uue color; mix tlie whole well together, 
end dry it over the fire, the nme ae all uth- 
erv, and drop them off a knife on paper, the 
OMial tiie ot drppt; let them stand till cold, 
be carefiil that your mixture is not too thin; 
when the drops are cold, put them into pa- 
pered boxes. 

VIOLETS, MARMALADE OF. Take 
three pounds of violets, and four pounds of 
wgar, put the former into a mortar and 
bruise tnem to a pulp; in the meantime boil 
the sugar to totjfie, then add the flowers; 
stir them together, add two pounds of a|iple 
marmalade, and when it has boiled up a 
few times, put the marmalade into pots. 

VIOLETS, SIRUP OF. Pound very 
lightly in a marble mortar, and with a 
wooden pestle, one pound of picked violets ; 
warm gradually a glass, or earthenware ves- 
sel with a small opening, into which put tlie 
pounded flowers, and pour over them two 
pounds of boiling water; close die vessel 
iienneticaily, and place it on hot ashes, re- 
newing them when necessary, to keep up an 



etiOBl temperative for tivelvB boon; after 
that time pass the whole through » cloaa 
cloth, squeeiing it well ; let it stand for half 
an hour; then pour it off very carefiiUy, that 
all the sediment may remain at the bottom; 
weiffh it, and the above quantities will iiave 
yielded seventeen ounces ; put into a matraas 
two pounds of crushed sugar with the infii- 
sion, close the matrass tight, and set it in 
the bain marie, over a nKxierate fire; almke 
it occasionally to accelerate the diasolntioa 
of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, 
let the fire so out and the inatrass cool grad- 
ually, when cold, pour the sirup into 
bottles. 



W. 

WORMWOOD CREME UQUEUR. 
Distil in the bain'marie the lests of two 
oranges, and half a pound of fresh gathered 
wormwood tops, .in a gallon of brancfy, 
which will produce nearty half the quantity 
of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar 
in as many pints of filtered river water ; mix 
this sirup with the liqueurs run it tiuroi]|gli 
a jelly-bag, and bottle iu 



ICT^Many receipts for Confectionerj may be found in the first 
part of this Book . 



J 



EXPLANATION 



Cffaoine of ike Terms made we of in the foregoing Pages, 

AteUt9'SmaJl silver skewen. 

B€Ufa—A French sweet yeast cake. 

JSam-Marie — See the word in its phu». 

J D ^ u^u dh A boneh el pafelejp and seaUiOiis tied np to put in soilpi, &e. 

Mtmantii forat^ «r J^t mammt T he sane^ win the additiea of clovoi and ajponatio 

herbs. 
JBourguignoie — ^A ra^ut of truffles. 
Braim fim imek m 1I0 plftoo. 
Brioche — ^A French yeast cako* 

Buiman — ^A whimsical method of dressing ip pastry, &c. 
dapUoiade — ^A comoKm hash of poultry. 
Cmranuiy. sa»|tog» 208. 
Ca$8e, see pace, 295. 
Civet — ^A haul of game or wild fowl. 
Compiegne — ^A French sweet yeast cake, with frait, ftc. ftc 
Cmitut^^Jk fine niond lagoai to ganMsh vhita poaltry, Ite. ; also a BMduMfr of irtewiog 

fruit with simp for desserts. 
CompoHer — ^A dish amongst the de s ser t service appropriated to the use of the oompotfc 
Couronntf'*^* servtt aay pwiiiiiind avliclei>Q* m dish in the form of a esawo. 
Court or short {to 8teto)~-To reduce a sauce very thick. 
Crouetade — ^Broui baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, &c. 
Croutons — Bread cut in various shapes, and fried lightly in butter at oil. 
Dor ex — ^To wash pastry, &c. with yolk of egg well beaten. 
Dorure — ^Yolks oteggs beaten well. 
JEntreee — ^Are dishes served at the commenoement, or during the first coune of die 

dinner. 
JEntremete — Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third course 
JFaree, stuffing. 

Ftnaneiere — An expensive, highly-flavored, mixed ragout. 
Fian — A French custard. 
Glaze, {to fall to a) — ^To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere to the 

meat. t 

Olaxe — ^Is usually made from reduced coneomme, or juices from the bottoms of Ixraised 

white meats ; it should oe preserved in jelly-potB. 
Glaze, Glaee, or lee — Is composed of white ot^^ beaten with powdernmgar. 
Godiveau — ^A common veal forcemeat. 
Crrand Plume, see page 295. 
Grand Perle, see page 296. 
Grand Queue de Coehon, see page 296. 
Grros Boulet, see page 296. 

Chrae (au) — ^This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. 
GraUn — A layer of some particular article is spread over a silver, or any other dish that 

will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it bums to it. . 

Hore d*eeufyre—A small dish, served during the first course. 
ffatelets — ^The same as Atetets. 
hard — ^To stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c. ; it is done by 

means of a lardin|[-pin, one «id of which is pointed, the other square, and hollow; 

the lardon is |Nit into this holk>w, the point is then inserted into the meat, and on be- 
ing drawn out, leaves the lardon standing up in its proper place. 
J^Mrdone — ^The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of 

larding meat, &c. &c. 
Larding-pan — ^An utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. 
lAaieon—A. finish with yolks of ^gs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. 



900 COOKSRT TERMS SXPLJUKBO. 

I489i, Me page 296. 

Mad€Mne9—CakeB made of the flame compositioii as poond-cakes. 

Maigri—SoapB, kc. dreaMd without meat. 

Mturinadt — ^A prepared pickle for meat, fidi, kc. 

Mtuh—To cover compleieljr. 

NcuUlf-'An Italian paste, reiembling macaroni ; it if flat, instead of being in pipeiw 

Panada--^read soaked in milk, nied principally for fttsncIlM and line forces. 

PoMger — ^To fir lightly. 

Pole— A raiseci crwt pie. 

PttU Boulet, see page 296. 

PeiU LtBMe, tee page 296. 

Petit Perl; see page 296. 

PttU Plume, see page 296. 

Petit Queue de Coehon, see page 296. 

Poele — ^A light braise for white meats. The diflerence between this and the breiae i% 

that in ttie former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so mnch done aa in 

the latter. 
Potagt — ^Another term for soap. 

Phtss — ^Any meat, fish, or other article, boiled to a polp, and nibbed through a sieve. 
Quenellee — ^A fine force; it is generally poached when used. 
Salwd — ^A highly seasoned hash. 
8auter--To fry verr liphdy. 
Sabotieret or Soroetiere — ^A pewter or tin vessel, in which an phoed dm mookb coih 

taining the substance to be frosen. 
8o^fflet see paie 296. 
Tammy — ^A siw sieve. 
Toumer, or IWn— To stir a saoce; also to pare and cot rooti, vegetables, and firniCB, 

neat^. 
Tourte^A pufl^saste pie. 
Fomwr— To take up saoce, or other liquid, in a apoaa, and torn it over qnkkly* 



J 



SEVENTY-FIVE 



RECEIPTS 



FOR 



PASTRY, CAKES, AND SWEETMEATS 



WMWVMMMMWMik 



BY MISS LESLIE, OF PHILADILPUU 



^MWMWIMWMMiM 



PREFACE. 



Thk followinff Receipts for Pastry, Cakes, and Sweetmeats, 
are original, and have been used bj the author and many of her 
friends with uniform success. They are- drawn up in a style so 
plain and minute, as to be {leifect^ Jitelligible to servants, and 
persons of the most moderate capacity. All the ingredients, with 
their proper quantities, are enumerated in a list at the head of each 
receipt, a plan which will greatly facilitate the business of nrocur- 
ing and preparing the requisite articles. 

There is frequently much difficulty in following directions in 
English and French Cookery Books, not only from their want of 
explicitness, but from the difference in the fuel, fire-places, and 
cooking utensils, generally used in Europe and America; and 
many of the European receipts are so complicated and laborious, 
that our female cooks are afraid to undertake the arduous task of 
making any thing from them. 

The receipts in this iittie dook are, m every sense of the word, 
American; but the writer flatters herself that (if exactly follow- 
ed) the articles produced from them will not be found inferior to | 
any of a similar description made in the European manner. Ex- 
perience has proved, that pastry, cakes, &c. prepared precisely 
according to these directioD.9 will not fail to be excellent: bu^ 
where economy is expedient, a puwtioiu of fne seasonmg, that is, 
the spice, wine, brandy, rose-water, essence of lemon, &c. may j 
be omitted without any essential deviation of flavor, or difference | 
of appearance; retaining, however, the given proportions of eggs, 
butter, sugar, and fiour. 

But if done at home, and by a person that can be trusted, it 
will be proved, on trial, that any of these articles may be made in 
the best and most liberal manner at one half of the cost of the 
same articles supplied by a confectioner. And they will be found 
particularly useful to families that live in the country or in small 
towns, where nothing of the kind is to be purchased. 



PASTRY. 



PRELIMINARY REMARKS 

Ii^ making pastry or cakes, it is best to begin by weighing out 
the sigredi^sts, sifting the flour, pounding imd s^ing Sie sngw 
and spice, washing the butter, and preparing the fruit. 

Sug«r oan be powdered by pounding it in a large mortar, or by 
roliiBg it oh a paste-board with a rolling-pin. It should be made 
very fine and always sifted. 

All sorts of spice should be pounded in a mortar, except nutmeg, 
which it is better to grate. If spice is wanted in large quantities, 
it may be ground in a mill. 

The butter should always be fresh and very good. Wash it in 
4io\d water before you use it, and then make it up with your hands 
into hard lumps, squeezing the water well out. 

If the butter and sugar are to be stirred together, always do 
that before the eggs are beaten, as (unless they are kept too warm) 
the butter and sugar will not be injured by standing awhile. For 
stirring them, nothing is so convenient as a round hickory stick 
about a foot and a half long, and somewhat flattened at one end. 

The eggs should not be beaten till after all the other ingredients 
are ready, as they will fall very soon. If the whites and yolks are 
to be beaten separately, do the whites first, as they will stand 
longer. 

Eggs should be beaten in a broad shallow pan, spreading wide 
at the top. Butter and sugar should be stirred in a deep pan with 
straight sides. 

Break every egg by itself, in a saucer, before you put it into the 
pan, that in case there should be any bad ones, they may not spoil 
the others. 

Eggs are beaten most expeditiously with rods. A small quantity 
of white of egg may be beaten with a knife, or a three-pronged 
fork. 



»W»<WW><WWIO»<# 



There can be no positive rules as to the exact time of baking 
each article. Skill in baking is the result of practice, attention, 
and experience. Much, of course, depends on the state of the 
fire, and on the size of the things to be baked, and something on 
the thickness of the pans or dishes. 

If you bake in a stove, put some bricks in the oven part to set 
the pans or plates on, ^d to temper the heat at the bottom. Large 
sheets of iron, without sides, will be found very useful for small 
cakes, aadto nut under the pans or plates. 

36 



PASTRT. 



PUFF PASTE. 

Half m pound and two ounces of sifted flour. 
Half pound of best fresh butter, washed. 
A little cold water. 

Tkii foUl mak€ ffuff-poMUfor two Pud- 
dinfi, or for one Boup-plate Pie, or 
for four mall ShelU. 

Weigh half a pound and two ounces of 
flour, and sift it through a hair-sieve into 
a large deep dish. Take out about one 
fourth of the flour, and lay it aside on one 
comer of your paste-board, to roll and 
q>rinkle with. 

Wash, in cold water, half a pound of 
the best fresh butter. Squeeze it nard with 

Irour hands, and make it up into a round 
ump. Divide it in four equal parts ; lay 
them on one side of your paste-board, and 
have ready a glass of cold water. 

Cut one of the four pieces of butter into 
the pan of flour. Cut it as small as possi- 
ble. Wet it Ki*adually with a very little 
water ^loo much water will make it tough) 
and mix it well with the point of a large 
case-knife. Do not touch it with your 
hands. When the dough gets into a lamp, 
q>rittkle on the middle of the board some 
of the flour that you laid aside, and lay the 
dough upon it, turning it out of the pan 
with the knife. 

Rub the rolling-pin with flour, and sprin- 
kle a little on the lump of paste. Roll it 
out thin, quickly, and evenly, pressing on 
the rolling-pin very lightly. Then take 
the second of the four pieces of butter, and, 
with the point of your knife, stick it in 
little bits at equal distances all over the 
sheet of paste. Sprinkle on some flou^, 
and fold up the dough. Flour the paste- 
board and rolling-pin again ; throw a little 
flour on the paste and roll it out a second 
time. Stick the third piece of butter all 
over it in little bits. Throw on some flour, 
fold up the paste, sprinkle a little more 
flour on tlie dough, and on the rolling-pin, 
and roll it out a third time, always pressing 
on it lightly Stick it over with tlie fourth 
and last piece of butter. Throw on a little 
more flour, fold up the paste and then roll 
it out in a large round sheet. Cut off the 
sides, so as to make the sheet of a square 
form, and lay tlie slips of dough upon the 
square sheet. Fold it up with the small 
pieces of triuDnings, in the inside. Score 
or notch it a little with the knife; lay it 
on a plate and set it away in a cool place, 
but not where it can freeze, as that will 
malu it heavy. 

Having made the paste, prepare and mix 



your pnddiog or pie. When die mixtme 
IS finished, bring out your paste, floor the 
board and rolling-pin, and roll it out with 
a short quick stroke, and pressing the rol- 
ling-pin rather harder than while yon wen I 
putting tlie bntto' in. If the pasle rises ii \ 
misters, it will be light, unless spoiled is 
baking. 

Then cut the sheet in half, fold iqi each 
piece and roll them out once more, sqpai^ 
ately, in round sheets the size of yoor plate. 
Press on rather harder, but not too hard. 
Roll the sheets thinnest in the middle and 
thickest at the edges. If intended lor piak 
dings, lay them in buttered soup-plates, and 
trim them evenly round the edges. If the 
edges do not appear thick enough, you may 
take the trimmings, put them all t<^ether, 
roll them out, and having cut them la slips 
the breadth of the rim of the plate, by 
them all round to make the [taste thicker 
at the edges, joining them nicely and even- 
ly, as every patch or crack will appear dis- 
tinctly when baked. Notch the rim hand- 
somely with a very sharp knife. Fill the 
dish with the mixture of the puddii^, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. The paste 
should be of a light brown color. If the 
oven is too slow, it will be soft and clammy; 
if too quick, it will not have time to nse 
as high as it ought to do. 

In making the best puff-paste, try to avoid 
using more flour to sprinkle and roll with, 
than the small.portion which you have laid 
aside fur that purpose at the beginning. 
If you make tlie dough too soft at first, by i 
usinff too much water, it will be sticky, and I 
require more flour, and will eventually be 
tou<rh when baked. Do not put your hands 
to It, as their warmth will injure it. Use 
the knife instead. Always roll from you 
rather than to you, and press lightly on the 
rolling-pin, except at the last. 

It is difficult to make pufT-paste in the 
summer, unless in a cellar, or very cool 
room, and on a marble table. The Dutter 
should, if possible, be washed the night 
before, and kept covered with ice till you 
use it next day. The water should have 
ice in it, and the butter should be iced as it 
sets ou tlie paste-board. Afler the paste is 
mixed, it should be put in a covered dish, 
and set in cold water till you are ready to 
give it the last rolling. 

With all these precautions to prevent its 
being heavy, it will not rise as well, or be 
in any respect as good as in cold weather. 

The handsomest way of ornamenting the 
edge of a pie or pudding is to cut the rim 
in hirge sauare notches, and then fold over 
triangular^ one corner of ereiy notdi. 



J 



PIES AND TAST8 



COMMON PASTE FOR PIES. 

A poond and a half of siftc^d flour. 
Three quarters of a pound of butter, washed. 

Thi» loill make one large pie or two enuUl 

onee. 

Sift the flour into a pan. Cut the butler 
into two equal parts. Cut one half of the 
butter into the flour, and cut it up as small 
as possiUe. Mix it well with the flour, 
wetting it gradually with a little cold 
'water. 

Spread some flour on your paste4»ard, 
take the lump of paste out of the pan, 
flour your roUmg-pin, and roll out the paste 
into a larj|[e sheet. Then stick it over with 
the remaining half of the butter in small 
pieces, and hud at eaual distances. Throw 
on a little flour, fold up the sheet of paste. 



flour it slightly, and roll it oat again. 
Then fold it up, and cut it in half or in 
four, according to the size of vour pies. 
Roll it out into round sheets tne size of 
your pie-plates, pressing rather harder on 
the rolling-pin. 

Butter your pie-plates, lay on your under 
crust, ana trim th6 edge. FiU the dish 
with the ingredients of which the pie is 
composed, and lay on the lid, in whicn you 
must prick some holes, or cut a small slit 
in tlie top. Crimp the edges with a sharp 
knife. 

Heap up the ingredients so that the pie 
will be hiffhest in the middle. 

Some think it makes common paste more 
crisp and liriit, to beat it hard on both sides 
with the rolling-pin, after yoo ^ive it the 
first rolling, when all the butter is in. 

If the butter is yery firebli, you may mix 
with the flour a salt-spoonful of salt. 



MWnMMMaiMMMB 



PIES AND TARTS. 



MINCE PIES. 

Two pounds of boiled beeTs heart, or fresh 
tongue, or lam fresh b eef chopped when 
cold. 

Two pounds of beef soet, chopped fine. 

Four pounds of pippin apples, chopped. 

Two pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped. 

Two pounds of currants, picked, wasned, 
and dried. 

Two pounds of powdered sugar. 

One quart of white wine. 

One quart of brandy. 

One wine-glass of rose-water. 

Two gratra nutmegs. 

Half an ounce of cinnamon \ 

A quarter of an ounce of cloves > powdered. 

A quarter of an ounce of mace ^ 

A tea-spoonfiil of salt. 

Two large oranses. 

Half a pound of citron, cut in slips. 

Parboil a beef's heart, or a fresh tongue. 
After you have taken oif the skin and iat, 
weigh two pounds. When it is cold, chop 
it very fine. Take the inside of the suet; 
weigh two pounds, and chop it as fine as 
possible. Mix the meat and suet together, 
adding the salt. Pare, core, and chop the 
apples, and then stone and chop the raisins. 
Having prepared tlie currants, add them to 
the other fruit, and mix the fruit with the 
meat and suet. Put in the sugar and spice, 
and the grated peel and juice of the oranges. 
Wet the whole with the rose water and 
liquor* and mix all weU together. 



Do not put in the citron till yon are fill- 
ing the pies: then lav it on the top. 

Make the paste, allowing for each pie, 
half a pound of butter and three quartera 
of a pound of sifted flour. Make it in the 
same mannv as puff-paste, but it will not 
be quite so rich. Lay a sheet of paste all 
over a soup-plate. Fill it with mince-meat, 
hiying slips of citron on the top. Roll out 
a sheet of paste, fi>r the lid of the pie. 
Put it on, and crimp the edges with a knife. 
Prick holes in the lid. 

Bake the pies half an hour in a brisk 
oven. — 

Keep your mince meat in a jar tightly 
covered. Set it in a dry, cool place, and 
occasionally add more brandy to it. 

Instead of the heart or tongue, you may, 
if you choose, use part of a round of fresh 
beef. 



OYSTER PIE. 

A hundred large fresh oysters, or more if 

small. 
The yolks of six eggs boiled hard. 
A large slice of stale-bread, grated. 
A tea-spoonftil of salt. 
A table-spoonful of pepper. 
A table-spoonful of mixed spice, nutm^^ 

mace and cinnamon. 

Take a large round dish, butter it, and 
spread a rich paste over the sides, and 
round the edge, oat not at the bptum. 



PIBB Ain> TART8. 



Skit oymn will iMt do Ibr pi«. Tlwy 
■hooM M JHili, aad m iHfe and int m 
pawMtow 

Dvam adf ipart of tha Bqnor fron tho 
CMfiten. Pat tfaem lata a pan, and leaaoa 
tnem with peppar, mU and wioa. Stir 
tliem wail wttk tna nawmina. Haw raady 



tito yoHis of em* chopped fine, aad the 
gvaiM braad. Pour ma OTitari (witli as 
aaieb of their liquor aa joa pieue) into 
die didi that haa the paiM in it. SiMw 
over thett the ehoppad egg and grated 
bread. 

KoU o«C ^ lid of the pie, and pat it on, 
crimpiDg the edgee handeomii^. 

Take a ■nell ■heeC ef paste, ent it into 
a sqoare and roH it vp* Cut it with a 
■hatp knife into the Ibrm of a doable tulip. 

Make a sKt in the centre of the o^wr 
emflt, and stick the- tulip in it. 

Cut out eirht larga leaves ef pasta, and 
lay them on Uie lid. 

Bake the pie in a quick oven. 

If you think the oysterB will be too much 
done oy baking them in the crust, you can 
substitute for them, pieces of bread, to keqp 
up the lid of the pie. 

Put the oysters with their liquor and the 
seasoning, chopped egff, grated bread, &c. 
iaca a pan* Craves uism dosely, and let 
them jost coaie to a boil, taking thaA off 
the fire» and stirring them firequently. 

When tl» erast is baked, take the lid 
Bsatly off (looseninf it rDond the edge widi 
a knA) take out tte pieces of bread, and 
put in the oysters. Lay the lid on again 
vary carefaUyu 

For oyster pattiei, the oysters are pre- 
pared in tlw iame maaner. 

They may be chopped if you dioose. 
They rau^t ba pot in small slieUB of puff- 
paste. 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

Make some rich paff-paste, and bake it 
in very small tia patty pans. When cool, 
turn them out upon a kiurge dish. 

Stew some large fresh oysters with a lew 
cloves, a little maoe and nutm^, some yolk 
of egg boiled hard and grated, a little Dut- 
ter, and as anich of the oyster liquor as 
will cover them. When they have .stewed 
a little while, take them out of the pan, 
a^d set th^ away to cool. When quite 
cold, lay two or three oysters in each shdl 
of puff'paste. 

FRUIT PIES. 
Fruit pies for femily use, are generally 



I 



quartsia of a pnmd of fanttar •» 
Mid a half of flour. 

Peaches aad phmis, fcr pli 
cut m Mf, and tha stDnaa 
Cherries also should be stoned, and red 
ch scri cs only should ba uaad Ar piea. 

Apples sfaiould be eat into vei^ thin shce% 
and are much imnowd by a little 
peel. Sweat apples an not good Ar 
aa they am very insipid mh e m baked, 
seldom get thoroogfaly done. If 
apples are used, they shoidd irat be stewed 
ia as little vrater as poaaibie» and mads 
very sweet. 

Apples, sttwed previous to baking, shoald 
not be done till they break, bat only till 
they are tender. They ahould then be 
drained in a cullender, aad dioi^ied ias 
with a knife or the edge af a apooa. 

In making pies of jmcy fruit, it iaa good 
way to set a small tea-eap on tba bottom 
crust, and lay the fruit all round it. T%e 
juice will collect under the cup, and not 
run out at the edges or top of the pie. 
The fruit should be mixed with a aufficieat 

Iuantity of sugar, and piled up in the mid- 
^e, so as to make the pie highest in the 
centre. Tha uppor crust dioukl be pricked 
with a fork, or nave a slit cut in the middle. 
The edges should be nicely crimped with a 
knife. 

Dried peaches, dried apples, and cran- 
berries BhoHld be stewed with a vex^ little 
water> and allowed to ffBt quite cold before 
they are put into the pie. If stewed fruit 
is pat in wann,il witt make the paste heavy. 

If year pies are made in the fiurm of 
shells, or without lids, the fruit shwdd al^ 
ways be stewed first, or it will net be su^ 
ficiently done, as the shells (which should 
be olr poff-pasteX must not bake so long as 
covered pies. 

Shells intended for sweetmeats, must be 
baked empty, and the fruk put into them 
before they go to table. 

Fruit pies with lids, shoald have loaf* 
sugar grated over tbmn. If they bave 
been b^ed the day before, they should be 
warmed in the stove,, or near uie fire, be- 
fore tliey are sent to table, to soAen tba 
crust, and make them taste fresh. 

Rfiuspberry and apple-pies are much im- 
proved l^ taking oS the lid, and penriag 
m a little cream, just before they ao to- ta- 
ble. Replace the lid very carewly^ 



PINE-APPLE TART. 

One ku^ pine-a[^e, or two smaU oaea 
Half a pound of powdered white sqgar* 
Half a pint of cream. 



Pare your pine-apple, cut it ia 



^ made with cewmon paste, allowing three | pieces, and leave out the coie. Ifix tl« 



PUDDINGS. 



isiiie-apple with the nffar, and weft it away 
In a covered dish till aufficient jaioe is 
Cbrawn out to stew the frait in. 

Make and bake two shells of paff^iaste 
in 8oup>pIates. 

Stew the pine-apple in the sugar and 
Juice till quite soft; then mash it to a mar- 
malade with the back of a spoon, and . set 
it away to cool. 

When the shells are baked and oool, 
mix the pine-af^le with half a pint of 
cream, and fill the shells with it. Grate 
loaf-sugar over the top. 

These tarts are very fine. 

If your pine-apple is not of the largest 
size, one will not be sufficient for two 
tarts. 



PEACH TART. , 

Take ripe juicy free-stone peaches, pare 
them, and cut them into small pieces; of 
course leave out the stones, half of which 
must be cracked, and the kernels bhmched 
and mixed with the peaches. Mix in a 
sufficient quantity of sugar to make them 
very sweet, and set the peaches away till 
the sugar draws out the juice. Then 
stew them (without water) till quite soft. 
Take them out, mash them with the back 
of a spoon, and set them away to cool. 

Have ready some shells of fine puff-paste, 
baked of a light brown. When cool, put 
the peaches into the shells; having first 
mixed die stewed fruit with some cream. 
Grate white sugar over them. 

You may substitute for the kernels a 
handful of fresh peach^leaves, stewed with 
the fruit and theu taken out. The kernels 
or leaves will greatly improve tlie flavor of 
the peaches. 



Peach-leavea may be kept firedi in watar 
for two or three days. 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 

Butter a deep dish, and spread a sheet 
of paste all over the bottom, sides, and 
edge. 

Cut away from your beef-steak all the 
bone, fat, ^istle, aind skin. Cut the lean 
in small thin pieces, about as large, gener- 
ally, as the palm of your hand. Beat the 
meat well with the rolling-pin, to make it 
juicy and tender. If you put in the £it, it 
will make the gravy too greasy and sti'ong, 
as it cannot be skimmed. 

Put a layer of meat over the bottom-crust 
of your dish, and season it to your taste, 
witti pepper, salt, and, if you choose, a 
little nutmeg. A small quantity of mush- 
room ketchup is an improvement; so also, 
is a little minced onion. 

Have ready some cold boiled potatoes 
sliced thin. Spread over the meat a layer 
of potatoes, and a small piece of butter; 
then another layer of meat, seasoned, and 
then a layer of potatoes, and so on till the 
dish is full and heaped up in the middle, 
having a layer of meat on the top. Pour 
in a little water. 

Cover the pie with a sheet of paste, and 
trim the edges. Notch it handsomely with 
a knife; and, if you choose, make a tulip 
of paste, and stick it in the middle of the 
lid, and lay leaves of paste round it. 

Fresh oysters will greatly improve a 
beef-steak pie. So also will mushrooms. 

Any meat pie may be made in a similar 
manner. 



SWWWP^MWWttMM* 



PUDDINGS. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, stoned and cut in 

half. 
One pound of currants, picked, waslied and 

dried. 
One pound of beef suet chopped fine. 
One pound of grated stale bread, or, half a 

pound of flour and half a pound of bread. 
Eight eggs. 
One pound of sugar. 
A glass of brandy. 
A pint of milk. 
A glass of wiae. 



r/'> 



Two nutmegs, grated. 

A table-spoonful of mixed cinnamon and 

mace. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 

You must prepare all your ingredients 
the day before (except bcaiting me fim) 
that in the morning you may have nothms 
to do but to mix them, as tne pudding wiu 
require six hours to boil. 

Beat tlie ^gs very light, then put to them 
half the milk and beat both together. Stir 
in gradually the flour and grated bread. 
Next add the sugar by degrees. Then the 



POBDfMrS. 



■ut-fivitftltanntiiliF. Tbe 
be well sprinkled with flow, Sert it sink to 
the bottom. Stir Tery hard. Then add 
the qpice and liquor, and lactlv the remain- 
der of the milk. Stir the whole mixture 
▼ery well together. If it ie not thick 
enoogh, add a little more mted bread or 
floor. If there ie too much bread or flour, 
the podding will be hard and heavy. 

Dip^oorpodding-clothjin boiling water, 
diake it out and vprink^ it slighuy with 
flour. Lay it in a pan and pour the mix- 
ture into the cloth. Tie it up carefully, 
allowing^ ro(Hn for the pudding to swell. 

Boil It six hours, and turn it carefully 
out of the cloth. 

Before yon send it to table, have ready 
some blanched sweet almonds cut in slips, 
or some slips of citron, or both. Stick 
them all over the outside of the pudding. ' 

Eat it with wine, or with a sauce made 
of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 

The podding will be improved if you add 
to the other ingredients, tne grated rind of 
a large lemon or orange. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

One small lemon, with a smooth thin rind. 
Three egga. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A quarter pound of fresh butter — washed. 
A table-spoonful of white wine and brandy, 

mixed. 
A tea-spoonful of rose-water. 

Five ounces of sifted flour, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter for the paste. 

Grate the yellow part of the rind of a 
small fresh lemon. Then cut the lemon in 
half, and squeeze the juice into the plate 
that contains the grated rind, carefully tak- 
ing out all the seeds. Mix the juice and 
rind together. 

Put a quarter o( a pound of powdered 
white sugar into a deep earthen pan, and 
cut up in it a quarter of a pound of the 
best fresh butter. If the weather is very 
cold, set the pan near the fire, for a few 
minutes, to soften the butter, but do not 
aHow it to melt or it will be heavy. Stir 
the butter and^ sugar together, with a stick 
or wooden spoon, till it is perfectly light 
and of the consistence of cream. 

Put the eggs in a shallow broad pan, and 
beat them with an egg-beater or rods, till 
they are quite smooth, and as thick as a 
boiled custard. Then stir the eggs, grad- 
ually, into the pan of butter and sugar. 
Add the Mqwxr and rose-water by degrees, 
and then stir in, gradually, the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon. Stir the whole 
very hard, after all die in^pnedients are in. 



oonoes of rimd flour, and a qiiMUi of a 
pound of fresh bottor. The paste lanat ha 
maib with as little water as pesattife. BoQ 
it out in a circular aheet» thin im. tkaceatn^ 
and thkher towaxds tbe adges» and jot 
lam sooi^h to covot tha bottom, sidas^ 
and edges of a ssop^plale. Batter As 
soup-plate very well, and lajF die paste m 
it, makinr it neat and evea round the broad 
edge of the plate. With a sharp kni6» 
trim off" the sopeHfaioas dough, and aotck 
the edges. Put in tbe mixture with a 
spoon, and bake the podding about ludf an - 
hour, in a moderate oven. It slioiikl be 
baked of a very light Iwown. If the ov«i 
is too hot, the paste will not have time to 
rise well. If too cold, it will be chunmy. 
When the pudding it cool, grate loaf sugar 
over it. 

Before using lemons fx any purpose, 
always roll them awhile with your band on 
a table. This will cause thorn to yield a 
larger quantity of juice. 



ALMOND PUDDING. 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, which will 

be reduced to a quarter of a pound, when 

dielled and blanched. 
An ounce of blanched bitter almonds or 

peach-kernels. 
The whites only, of six eggs. 
A quarter of a pound of butter. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A taUe-spoonful of mixed brandy, wine, 

and rose-water. 

Shell half a pound of sweet almonds, 
and pour scalding wat^ over them, which 
will make the skins peal off". As they get 
cool, pour more boiline water, till thie al- 
monds are all blanched. Blanch also the 
bitter almonds. As you blancli tlie almonds, 
throw them into a bowl of cold water. 
Then take them out, one by one, wipe them 
dry ia a clean towel, and lay them on a 
plate. Pound them one at a time to a fine 
paste, in a marble mortar, adding, as you 
pound them, a few drops of rose-water to 
prevent their oiling. Poiwd the bittor and 
sweet almonds alternately, that they may 
be well mixed. They must be made per- 
fectly fine and smooth, and are the betttf 
for being prepared tbe day before they are 
wanted for the pudding. 

Stir tlie butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add to it, gradually, the liquor. 

Beat the whites of six eggs till they stand 
alone. Stir the almonds and white of e|^, 
alternately, into the butter and su^ar ; and 
then stir the whole well together. 

Have ready a puff-paste sufficient for a 
so(i);«-plate. Butter the plate, toy on tbe 



J 



TODDINGS. 



9 



|M4ite, trim vuf notcb it. Thou put in the 
mixture. 

Bake it about half an hour in a modnv 
«te oven. 

Orate loaf-fl|igar over it- 



ORANGHS PUDDING. 

One large orange, of tt deep color, and 

smooth thin rind. 
One lime. 

A quarter ftoundof powdered white sugar. 
A quarter of a pouna of freeh butter. 
Three eggs. 

A table-eipoonful of mixed wine andbrancty. 
A tea-spooDfiil of rose-water. 

Grate the yellow rind of the orange and 
lime, and squeexe the juice into a saucer or 
8onp-plate, taking out all Uie seeds. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream. 

Beat the eggs as light as possible, and 
then stir them by degrees into the pan of 
butt^ and sugar. Add, gradually, the li- 
quor and rose-water, and then by decrees. 
Ate orange and lime. Stir all well to- 
gether. 

Have ready a sheet of puff-paste made 
of five ounces of sifted fiour, and a quarter 
of a pound of fresh butter. Lay the paste 
in a buttered soup-plate. Trim and notch 
the edges, and then put in the mixture. 
Bake it about half an hour, in a moderate 
oven. Grate loaf-sugar over it, before you 
«end it to table. 



COCX)A-NUT PUDDING. 

A quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, grated. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
Three ounces and a lialf of fresh butter. 
The whites only of six eggs. 
A table-spoonful of wine and brandy mixed. 
Half a tea-spoonful c^ rose-water. 

Break up a cocoa-nut, and take the thin 
brown skin carefully off, with a knife. 
Wash all the pieces in cold water, aud 
then wipe them dry, with a clean towel. 
Weigh a quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut, 
and grate it very fine, into a soup-plate. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, and 
add the liquor and rose-water gradually to 
them. 

Beat the whites only, of six esgs, till 
they stand alone on the rods ; and then stir 
the beaten white of ege, gradually, into 
the batter and sugar. Afterwards, sprinkle 
in, by degrees, the grated cocoa-nut, stirring 
hard all the time. Tlum stir all very weU 
Bt the \aMi» 

Have ready a puff-paste, sufficimt to 



cover tiiB vottoniy sides, and 6d|pBli oif n 
soup-fdate. Put in die ndxtnre,, and bakot 
it in a modhsrate 'oven, aboot half a* 
hour. 
Grate h»f-sngar over it, when cool. 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING, 

A quarter of a pound of boiled awoet potatCK 
Three eggs. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sngar 
A quarter of a pound of freeh butter. 
A glass of mixed wine and brandy. 
A baJf-ghss of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of mixed spicot nutmogi 
mace and cinnamon. 

Pound the apice, allowing a smaller pro<- 
portion of mace than of nutmeg and cin- 
namon. 

Boil and peal some sweet potatoes, and 
when they are cold, weigh a quarter of a 
pound. Mash the sweet potato Very 
smooth, and rub it through a sieve. Stir 
the sugar and butter to a cream. 

Beat the eggs very light, and stir them 
into the butter and suffar, alternately with 
the sweet potato.^ Add by degrees the li- 
quor, rose-water and spice. Stir all very 
hard together. 

Spread pufi*-paste on a soup-plate. Put 
in die mixture, and bake it about half aa 
hour in a moderate oven. " 

Grate sugar over it. 



PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Half a pound of 9tewed pumpkin. 

Three eggs. 

A quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or a 

pint of cream. 
A Quarter pound of powdered white sugar 
Half a glass of wine and brandy mixed. 
Half a glass of rose-water. 
A tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmegs 

mace and cinnamon. 

Stew some pumpkin with as little water 
as possible. Drain it in a cullender, and 
press it till dry. When cold, weigh half a 
pound, and pass it through a sieve. Pre- 
pare the spice. Stir together the sugar, 
and butter, or cream, till they are perfecdy 
light. Add to them, gradually, the spina 
and liquor. 

Beat three eggs very light, and stir them 
into the butter and sugar alternately withf 
thepumpkin. 

Cover a soup-plate widi puff-pa«te» anA 
put in the mixture. Bake it in a moder* 
ate oven about half an bonr. 

Grate sugar over it, when oool. 



10 



PUDDINGS. 



iBPCead of tbo bad0r, too vmj boil a pint 
of milk or cram, and wnen eold, ■tir loto 
it in turn tlie mgar, 9gg^, and pumpkin. 



GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

A pint of itewad gooieberriei, with all their 

juioe. 
A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 
Two ounces of fresh butter. 
Two ounces of grated bread. 
Three eggt. 

Stew the gooseberries till quite soft. 
When they are cold, maiA them fine with 
the back of a spoon, and stir into them two 
ounces of sucar. Take two ounces more 
of sugar, and stir it to a cream with two 
ounces of butter. 

Grate very fine, as much stale bread as 
will weigh two ounces. 

Beat three eggs, and stir them into the 
butter and sugar, in turu with the goose- 
berries and bread. 

Lay puff-paste in a soup-plate, l^ut in 
the mixture, and bake it half an hour. 

Do not grate sugar over it. 



BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

A pint of stewed apples. 

Haifa pint of cream, or two ounces of batter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of grate4 lemon-peel. 

, Stew your apple in as little water as pos- 
sible, and not long enough for the pieces to 
break and lose their sliape. Pi^t them in 
a cullender to drain, ana mash them with 
the back of a spoon. If stewed too lon^, 
and in too much water, they will loee their 
flavor. When cold, mix with them the 
nutmeg, rose-water, atid leroon-peel, and 
two ounces of sugar. Stir the other two 
ounces of sugar, with the butter or cream, 
and then mix it gradually with the apple. 

Bake it in puff-paste, in a soup-dish, 
about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Do not sugar the top. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

Six eggs. 

One pound of sifted flour. 
One quart of milk. 
A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Stir the flour, gradually, into the milk, 
c:: •• '' ''•• iTJ«-ro'« ir-T ?1] tn." Imttds. Bent 



the eggf very l%ht, and add them I17 df 
grees to the mUk and floor. Put in tib 
salt, and stir the whole well togetber. 

Take a vor^- thick poddin|r.cloth. Dqi 
it in boiling water, and flour it. Poor into 
it the mixture and tie it up, leaving room 
for it to swell. Boil it hard, one boor, and 
keep it in the pot, till it is time to aeod it 
to table. Serve it up with 



I 



BREAD PUDDING. 

A quarter pound of ^ted stale bread. 
A quart of milk, boiled with two or three 

sticks of cinnamon, slightly broken 
Eight eggs. 

A (quarter of a pound of sugar. 
A little grated kemon-ped. 
Two ounces of butter. 



Boil the milk with the cinnamon, straia 
it, and set it away till quite cold. Mix 
the butter and sugar. 

Grate as much crumb of stale-bread ai 
will wfigrb a quarter of a pound* Beat 



A square cloth, which when tied op will 
make the pudding of a round fbmiy is bet- 
ter tlian a bag. 

Apple Batter Puddinff is made by pour- 
ing the batter over a dish of pippins, pared, 
cored, and sweetened, either whole or cot 
in pieces. Bake it, siad eat it with butter 
and sugar. 



INDLIN PUDDING. 

A pound of beef-suet, chopped very fine* 

A piiit of molasses. 

A pint of rich milk. 

F our eggs. 

A large tea-spoonful of powdered mitmeg 

and cinnamon. 
A little grated or chipped lemon-peel. 
Indian meal sufficient to make a thick batter. 

Warm the milk and molasses, and stir 
them together. Beat the eggs, and stir 
them gradually into the milk and molasses, 
iu tarn with the suet and Indian meal. 
Add tlie spice and lemon-peel, and stir all 
very hafd together Take care not to ppt i 
too much Indian meal, or the pudding will I 
be heavy and solid. 

Dip tne cloth in boiling water. Shake 
it out, and flour it slightly. Pour the mix- 
ture into it, and tie it up, leaving room for 
the padding to swell. Boil it three huurs. 
Serve it up hot, and eat it with sauce made 
of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 

When cold, it is very good cut in slices 
and firied. 



J 



PUDDINGS. 



11 



egfpi, and when the milk is cold, stir 
tliem into it, in turn with the bread and 
MMgar. Add the )emon-peeI, and if you 
cHoose a table-spoonful of rose-water. 

Bake it in a buttered dish, and grate 
nutra^ over it when done. Do not send 
it to taUe hot. Baked puddings should 
neyer be eaten till they have become cold, 
or at least cool. 



RICE PUDDING, 

JL quarter of a pound of rice. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

Jk quarter of a pound of sugar. 

^ pint and a Lialf of milk, or cream and 
milk. 

Six eggs. 

A tea-spoonful of mixed i^ice, mace, nut- 
meg and cinnamon. 

A. half wine-glass of rose-water. 

Wash the rice. Boil it till very soft. 
Uraitt it, and set it away to get cold. Put 
the butter and sugar together in a pan^ and 
Btir them till very light. Add to them the 
epioe and rose-water. Beat the e^gs very 
light, and stir them, gradually, into the 
milk. Then stir the ^gs and milk into 
the butler and sugar, ahernately witli the 
rice. 

Bake it and grate nutmeg over the top. 

Currants or raisins, floured, and stirred 
an at the last, will greatly improve it. 

It should be eaten cold, or quite cool. 



GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Take five table-spoonfiils of §^ound^ rice 
and boil it in a quart of new milk, with a 

5 rated nutmqg or a tea-S()oonful of {)ow- 
ered cinnamon, stirring it all the time. 
When it has boiled, pour it into a pan and 
fltir in a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a 
nutmeg and half a pint of cream. Set it 
away to get cold. Then beat eight eggs, 
omitting the whites of four. Have ready 
a half pound of dried currants well cleaned, 
and sprinkled with flour ; stir them into 
the mixture alternately with the beaten egg. 
Add half a glass of rose-water, or half a 
glass of mixed wine and brandy. Butter 
a deep dish, put in the mixture, and bake 
it of a pale brown. Or you may bake it 
IB saucera. 



CHICKEN PUDDING. 

Cot np a pair of young chickens* and 
toem wiUi pepper and salt and a 



littk mace and nutmeg. Put tfiem into a 
pot with two large spoonfuls of butter, and 
water enough to cover tS^em. Stew them 
gently; and when about half cooked, take 
them out and set them away to cool. Pour 
off the gravy, and reserve it to be served 
up separately. 

In the meantime, make a batter as if 
for a pudding, of a pound of sifled flour 
stirred gradually into a quart of milk, six 
eggs well beaten and added by degrees to 
the mixture, and a very little salt. Put a 
layer of chicken in the bottom of a deep 
dish, and pour over it some of the liatter; 
then another layer of chicken, and then 
some more batter; and so on till the dish 
is full, having a cover of batter at the top. 
Bake it till it is brown. Then break an 
egg into the gravy which you have set 
away, give it a boil, and send it to table ia 
a sauce-boat to eat with tht pudding. 



BOSTON PUDDING. 

Make a good common paste with a pmrnd 
and a half of flour, ana three quarters of 
a pound of butter.* When you roll it out 
the last time, cut ofi* the edges, till you get 
the sheet of paste of an even square shape. 

Have ready some iVuit sweetened to your 
taste. If cranberries, gooseberries, dried 
peaches, or damsons, they should be stew- 
ed, and made very sweet. If apples, they 
should be stewed in a very litUe water* 
drained, and seasoned with nutmeg, roee- 
water and lemon. If currants, raspberries, 
or blackberries, they should be masned with 
sugar, and put into the pudding raw. 

Spread the fruit very thick, all over the 
sheet of paste, (which must not be rolled 
out too thin.) When it is covered all over 
with the fruit, roll it up, and close the 
dough at both ends, and down the last side. 
Tie the pudding in a cloth and boil it. 

Eat it with sugar. It must not be taken 
out of the pot till just before it is brought 
to table. 



FRITTERS. 

Seven eg^. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A salt-spoonful of salt. 

Sufficient flour to make a thick bttMv 

Beat the eg^ well and stir them gradu- 
ally into the milk. Add the salt, and stir 

* Or three quarters of a pound of beef-fuet. 
chopped very fine. Mix tiie suet at once with 
the flour, knead it with coM water into a stiff* 
dough, and then roll k oatintoa lufathift- 
sheet. Fold it up and re!! it sg^Ja. 



12 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



in flour enongb to make a thick batter. 
Tbey muat set an hour to rise. 

Fry them in lard, and serve them op hot. 

Eat them with wine and sugar. 

They are improved by stirring in a ta- 
ble-spoonful of yeast. 

These are excellent with the addition of 
cold stewed apple, stirred into the mixture, 
in which case use less flour. 

Oyster Fritters are made by potting a 
lar^ o}-ster in the middle of each fritter, 
while frying. They are very fine. 



A CHEESE-CAKE. 

Four ^gs. 

Half a pint of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

Two ounces of grated bread. 

A table^poonful of mixed brandy and wine. 

A tea-spoonful of rose-wator. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, cinnamon, and 

nutmeg, mixed. 
A quarter of a pound of currants. 

Pick the currants very clean. Wash 
them through a colander, wipe them in a 
towel, and then dry them on a dish before 
the fire. 

When dry take out a few to scatter over 
the top of tne cheese-cake, lay them aside. 



and sprinkle the remainder of the cnrnurti 
with the flour. 

Stir the thitter and sugar to a creasi. 
Grate the bread, and prepare the spioe. 
Beat tlie eggs very light. 

Boil the milk. When it comes to a boil, 
add to it half (he beaten egg, and boil bodi 
togetlier till it becomes a curd, stirring it 
frequently with a knife. Tlien tlirow the 
grated bread on the curd, and stir all toge- 
tner. Then take the milk, egg, and bread 
off" the fire, and stir it, gradiKuly, into the 
butter and sugar. Next, atir m the re- 
maining half of the egg. 

Add, by decrees, the liquor and ^ice. 

Lastly, stir m, gradually, the currants. 

Have ready a pufi*-paste, which should 
be made before you prepare die cheese-cake, 
as the mixture will become heavy by stand- 
ing. Before you put it into the oven, scat- 
tei' the remainder of the currants over the 
top. 

Bake it half an hour in rather a quick 
oven. 

Do not susar the top. 

You may bake it either in a soup-plate* 
or in two small tin patty-pans, which, for 
cheese-cakes, should oe of a square shape. 
If baked in square patty-pans teave at each 
side a flap of paste in the shape of a halA 
circle. Cot long slits in these flaps and 
turn them over, so tliat they will rest on 
the top of the mixture. 

You can, if you choose, add to the car- 
rants a few raisins stoned, and cut in haUL 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



FINE CUSTARDS. 

A quart of milk or cream. 
The yolks onW, of sixteen e^gs. 
Six ounces of powdered white sugar. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in small 

nieces. . 
A large handful of peach-leaves, or half an 

ounce of peach-kernels or bitter almonds, 

broken in pieces. 
A table-spooniul of rose-water. 
A oatmeg. 



Boil in the milk the cinnamon and the 
peach-leaves, or peach-kernels. When it 
nas boiled, set it away to get cold. As 
soon as it is cold, strain it through a sieve, 
to clear it Irom the cinnamon, peach-leaves, J 



&G. and stir into it, gradually, the sugar, 
spice, and rose-water. 

Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs very light, 
and stir them by degrees into the nulk, 
which must be quite cold or the eggs will 
make it curdle. Put the custards into cups, 
and set them in a baking-pan, half filled 
with water. When baked, grate some not- 
ineg over each, and ice them. Make the 
icing of the whites of eight eggs, a large 
tea-spoonfiil of powdered loaf-sugar, and 
six drops of essence of lemon, beaten all 
together till it stands alone. File up soma 
of the icing on the top of each custard, 
hoping it high. Put a spot of red nonpa* 
reils on the middle of the pile of icing. 

W — W 

If the weather be damn, or the eggi not 
new-laid, more than eight whiteit will ha 
required for the iciiy. 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, AND CREAMS. 



13 



PLAIN CUSTARDS. 

A quart of rich milk. 

Eight eggs. 

A -quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. 

A handful of peach-leaves, or half an ounce 

of peach-kernels, broken in pieces. 
A nutmeg. 

Boil the peach-leaves or kernels in the 
Bdilk, and set it away to cool. When cold, 
«train out the leaves or kernels, and stir in 
the sugar. Beat the eggs very light, and 
stir them gradually into the milk, when it 
as quite cold. Bake it in cnps, or in a 
large white dish. 

When cool, grate nutmeg over the top. 



COLD CUSTARDS. 

A quart of new milk, and a half a pint of 

cream, mixed. 
A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 
A large glass of white wine, in which an 

inch of washed rennet has been scalded. 
A nutmeg. 

Mix together the milk, cream, and su- 
gar. Stir tlie wine into it, and pour the 
mixture into your custard-cups. Set them 
in a warm place near the fire, till they be- 
come a firm curd. Then set them on ice, 
or in a very cold place. Grate nutmeg over 
them. 



ALMOND CUSTARD. 

One pint of cream. 
One pint of rich milk. 
Half a pound of shelled sweet alinondd. 
Two ounces of shelled bitter almondti. 
Four table-spoonfuls of rose-water. 
A quarter of a pound of white sugar. 
The yolks of eight eggs. 
A little oil of lemon. 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to 
a paste, mixing tlie rose-water gradually 
with them. Powder the sugar, and lieat 
the yolk of egg till very light. Mix the 
cream and milk together, and stir into it 
gradually the sugar, the pounded almonds, 
and tlie beaten yolk of egg. Then stir the 
whole very hard* Put the mixture into a 
skillet or sauce-pan, and set it in a heated 
stove, or on a charcoal furnace. Stir it 
one way till it becomes thick, but take it 
off the nre before it has been long enough 
to curdle. Set it away to get cold. Take 
half the whites of the eggs, and beat them 
to a stiff froth, adding a little powdered 
•iigar> and a few drops of oil of lemon 



(the latter in proportion to its strength.) 
Put the custard into a glass dish or bowl, 
and heap the frothed white of egg upon it. 
You may ornament the top witli nonpareils 
or sugar-sand. 

Or you may put it in small cups, piling 
some froth on each. 



RICE CUSTARDS. 

Half a pound of rice. 

Half a pound of raisins or currants. 

Eight yolks of eggs or six whole eggs. 

Six ounces of powdered sugar. 

A quart of rich milk. 

A handlul of peach-leaves, or half an oimce 

of peach-kerneU, broken in pieces. 
Half an ounce of cinnamon, broken in pieces. 

Boil the rice with the raisins or currants, 
which must first be floured. Butter - some 
cups or a mould, and when the rice is quite 
soft, drain it, and put it into diem. Set it 
away to get cold. 

Beat the eggs well. Boil the milk with 
the cinnamon and peach-leaves, or kernels. 
As soon as it has come to a boil, take it 
off and strain it through a sieve. Then 
set it again on the fire, stir into it alter- 
nately, the egg and sugar, taking it off fre- 
quently and stirring it hard, lest it become 
a curd. Take care not to boil it too long, 
or it will be lumpy and lose its flavor. 
When done, set it away to cool. Turn out 
the rice from the cups or mould, into a 
deep dish. Pour some of the boiled cus- 
tard over it, and send up the remainder of 
the custard in a sauce-boat. 

You may, if you choose, ornament the 
lumps of rice, (after the custard is poured 
round them) by making a stiff froth of 
white of egg (beaten till it stands alone) 
and a few drops of essence of lemon, with 
a very little powdered loaf-sugar. Heap 
the frotli on the lop of each lump of rice. 



CURDS AND WHEY. 

Take a small piece of rennet about two 
inches square. Wash it very clean in cold 
water, to get all the salt off, and wipe it 
dry. Put it in a tea-cup, and pour on it 
just enough of lukewarm water to cover it. 
Let it set all night, or for several hours. 
'I'hen take out the rennet, and stir the 
water in which it was soaked, into a quart 
of milk, which should be in a broad 
dish. 

Set the miFK in a warm place, till it be- 
comes a firm curd. As soon as the curd 
is completely made, set it in a cool place 



CUSTARDS, CURDS, ASD CREAMS. 



WHIPT CREAM. 

A qout of creun. 
TIm whites of four tggB, 
Half a pint of white wine. 
A qoerter poond of p ow d Bred 
Ten drops of itroaf ee e en e c. of 

two leoKMM cot in thin elioen, or 

of a large lonon. 



Mix togedier, in a broad paois nO the n- 
gredients, onlen yoa nee sncei 



14 



■r on ioa (if in fnininw ) tar two or dune 
■oari bolbre yon want to nee it. 
Eat it with wine, si^gar, and nntnieg. 



The whey, drained from the cordt ii an 
WfieHent drink lor invaKdi. 



A TRIFLE. 

A quart of cream. 

A ooarter poand of loaf-eogar, powdered. 
Half a pint of white wine ) ^-.^ 
Half a gill of brandy }«»»*• 
Eight maocarooDs, or more if yon diooee. 
Four email sponge-cakea or Naples biscuit. 
Two ounces of blanched sweet alm<Mids, 

popnded in a mortar. 
One ounce of blanched bitter elmonds or 

peacfa<^emels. 
The juice and grated peel of two lemons. 
A nutmcig, grated. 
A glass of noyau. 
A pint of rich baked custard, made of the 

yolks of ^gs. 



Pound the sweet and bitter almonds to a 
smooth paste, adding a liltle rose>water as 
you pound them. 

Grate the yellow peels of the lemons, 
and squeeze the juice into a saucer. 

Break the sponge cake and maccaroons 
into small pieces, mix them with the al> 
moods, and lay them in the bottom of a 
large glass bowl. Grate a nutmeg over 
them, and the juice and peel of the lemons. 
Add the wine and brandy, and let the mix- 
ture remain untouched, till the cakes are 
dissolved in the liquor. Then stir it a 
little. 

Mix the cream and sugar with a glass 
of noyau, and beat it with a whisk ortods, 
till it stands alone. 

As tlie froth rises, take it off with a 
spoon, and lay it on a sieve (with a large 
dish under it) to drain. The cream, that 
drains into the dish, must be poured back 
into the nan with the rest, ana beaten over 
again. When the cream is finisiied, set it 
in a cool place. 

When the custard is cold, pour it into 
the glass bowl upon the dissolved cakes, 
&c. and when tlie cream is ready, fill up 
the bowl with it, heaping it hi^ in the 
middle. You may ornament ii with non- 
pareils. 

If you choose, you can put in, between 
the custard and the frothed cream, a byer 
of fruit jelly, or small fruit preserved. 



and then th^ must be laid at 

among die froth, as yoa heap it in ^ 
howl. 

With a -whisk or reds, beat the crean 
to a strong froth. Have beside yoor paa 
a sieve (bottom upwards) with a large mdi 
under it. As the froth rises, take tt light* 
ly off with a spoon, and lay it on the sieve 
to drain. When the top of the sieve is 
full, transfa: the froth to a lai^ glass or 
china bowl. Continue to do thin till the 
bowl is fidl. 

The cream which has dropped ffanxi^ 
the sieve into the dish, must be poured into 
the pan, and beaten over again. When 
all the cream is converted into fit>th, |Hie 
it up in the bowl, making it highest in the 
middle. 

If you choose, you may ornament it with 
red and green nonpareils. 

If you put it in glasses, lay a little jdly 
in the bottom of each glass, and pile the 
cream on it. 

Keep it in a cool pkice tiU yoa want to 
use it. 



ic;e cream. 

A quart of rich cream, boiled and set 
away till cold. 

Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. 

The juice of two large lemons, or a pint 
of strawberries or raspberries; or an 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
pounded in a mortar with rose-wator. 

Put the cream into a broad pan. Th«ii 
stir in the sugar by degrees, and when all 
is well mixed, strain it through a sieve. 

Put it into a tin that Itas a close cover, 
and set it in a tub. Fill the Uib with ice 
broken into very small pieces, and strew 
among the ice a large quantity of salt, tak- 
ing care that none of the salt gets into the 
cream. Scrape the cream down with a 
spoon as it freezes round the edgea €£ the 
tin. While the cream is freezins, stir in 
gradually die lemon-juice, or the jnioe of a 
pint of mashed strawberries or rasp ber- 
ries. When it is all frozen, dip the tin in 
lukewarm water; take out the cream, and 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



IS 



fiH yoor ghiwcn; but not tUl a few minates 
before you waat to use it, as it will very 
-soon melt. 

You may heighten the color of the red 
fruit, by a little cochineal. 

If you wish to have it in moulds, put the 
cream into them as soon as it has frozen in 
the tin. Set the moulds in a tub of ice 
and salt. Just before you want to use the 
cream, take tlie moulds out of the tub, 
wipe or wash the salt carefully from the 
outside, dip the moulds in lukewarm water, 
and turn out the cream. 

You may flavor a quart of ioe-cream 
^nrith two ounces of sweet almonds and one 
ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 
beaten in a mortar with a little rose-water 
to a smooth paste. Stir in the almonds 
gradually while the cream is freezing. 



ANOTHER KIND OF ICE-CREAM. 

A pint and a half of rich cream. 

A quart and a half-pint of morning'* milk. 

One pound of loaf-sugar. 

Two efffs. 

One taoleHspoonful of flour. 

Two lemons. 

Or half a Vanilla bean, split into small 

pieces. 
Or two ounces of sweet almonds and one 

ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and 

split into pieces. 

Take half of the milk and put in the 
ingredient that is to flavor it, either the 
vanilla, the almonds, or the grated rind of 
the lemons. Boil it, stirring in gradually 
the sugar. 



Having beaten the eggs well, add to them 
two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and pour 
them into the boiling milk. Let them sim- 
inet* two or three minutes, stirring them all 
the time. Then take the mixture off the 
fire and strain it through book-muslin into 
a pan. Add the cream and the^remainder 
of the milk, and put the whole into the tin 
freezer, which must be set in a tub filled 
with ice, among which must be scattered a 
great deal of salt. 

Squeeze the juice from the two lemonf 
and stir it into the cream, by degrees, 
while it is freezing. 

When it is all frozen, turn it out, first 
dipping the tin for a moment in warm water. 

If you wish to flavor it with strawberry 
or raspberry juice, that, like the lemon- 
juice, must be stirred gradually in while 
the cream is freezing. 

In places where cream is not abundant, 
this receipt (though inferior in richness) 
will be found more economical than the 
preceding one. It is, however, less easy 
and expc«itiou8. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Six whites of eggs. 

Six large table-spoonfuls of jelly. 

A pint of cream, sweetened with loaf-sugar . 

Put the jeilv and white of egg into a 
pan, and beat it together with a whisk, till 
It becomes a stiff froth and stands alone. 

Have ready the cream, in a broad shal- 
low dish. Just before you send it to table, 
pile up the froth in the centre of the 
cream. 



«VMMWWVWWMWMk 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



In making cakes, it is particularly necessary that the eggs should 
be well beaten. They are not sufficiently light till the surface 
looks smooth and level, and till they get so thick as to be of tha 
consistence of boiled custard. 

White of egg should always be beaten till it become a heap of 
stiff froth, without any liquid at the bottom; and till it hangs from 
the rods or fork without dropping. 

Eggs become light soonest when new-laid, and when beaten 
near tne fire, or in warm dry weather. 

Butter and sugar should be stirred till it looks like thick cream. 

and till it stands up in the pan. 

27 



16 



CARES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD 



It should be kept cool. If too warm, it will make the cakes 
heavy. 

Large cakes should be baked in tin or earthen pans, with straight 
sides, that are as nearly perpendicular as possible. They cut into 
handsomer slices, and if they are to be iced, it will be found very 
inconvenient to put on the icing, if the cake slopes in towarcb 
the bottom. 

Before you ice a cake, dredge it all over with flour, and then 
wipe the flour ofll This wiU enable you to spread on the icing 
more evenly. 

Before you cut an iced cake, cut the icing by itself with a small 
sharp penknife. The large knife with which you divide the cake, 
will crack and break the icing. 

Large Gingerbread, as it burns very easily, may be baked in an 
earthen pan. So also may Black Cake or Pound Cake. Tin 
pans or moulds, with a hollow tube in the middle, are best for 
cakes. 

If large cakes are baked in tin pans, the bottom and sides should 
be covered with sheets of paper, before the mixture is put in 
The paper must be well buttered. 

Sponge cakes, and Almond cakes should be baked in pans that 
are as thin as possible. 

If the cakes should get burnt, scrape them with a knife or grat- 
er, as soon as they are cool. 

Always be careful to butter your pans well. Should the cakes 
stick, they cannot be got out without breaking. 

For queen-cakes, &c. the small tins of a round or oval shape 
are most convenient. FiH them but little more than half. 

Afler the mixture is completed, set it in a cool place till all the 
cakes are baked. 

In rolling out cakes made of dough, use as little flour as possi- 
ble. When you lay them in the pans, do not place them too close 
together, lest they run into each other. 

When you are cutting them out, dip the cutter frequently in 
flour, to prevent its sticking. 

If cakes are not properly baked they will have heavy streaks 
through them, and the bottoms will be uneven and misshapen. 

It is always safest to have large cakes done in a baker's oven. 



•WWfWWWMWtfWk 



QUEEN CAKE. 

One pound of powdered white sugar. 

One pound of fresh butter — washed. 

Fourteen Qjunces of sifted flour. 

Ten eggs. 

One wine-glass of wine and brandy, mixed. 

Half a glass of rose-water, or twelve drops 

of essence of lemon. 
One tsa-spoonfnl of maoe and cinnamon, 

mixed. 
One mitmeg, beaten or yrated. 



Pound the Bpice to a fine pow^:, in a 
marble mortar, and sift it well. 

Put the sugar into a deep earthen pan, 
and cut the butter into it. Stir them to- 
gether, till Tery li^ht. 

Beat the eggs m a broad shallow pan, 
till they are perfectly smooth and thick. 

Stir into the butter and sugar a little of 
the beaten egg, and then a little flour» md 
so on alternately, a little egg and a Uttle 
flour, till the whole is in; contianiiig all 
tiie time to beat the egg8« and ttiitioff Hm 



i 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



85 



CRULLERS. 

Half a poand of butter. 

Three quarters of a pound of powdered 

-white sugar. 
Six eggs, or seven if the^are small. 
Two pounds of flour, sined. 
A grated nutmeg. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 
A table-spoonfiil of rose-water. 

Cut the butter into the flour, add the 
sugar and spice, and mix them well to- 
gether. 

Beat the ^gs, and pour them into the 
pan of flour, &c. Add the rose-water, and 
mix the whole into a dough. If the eggs 
and rose-water are not found sufficient to 
-wet it, add a very little cold water. Mix 
the dough very well with a knife. 

Spread some flour on your paste-board, 
take the dough out of the pan, and knead 
It very well. Cut it into small pieces, and 
knead each separately. Put all the pieces 
together, and knead the whole in one lump. 
Roll it out into a large square sheet, about 
half an inch thick. Take a jaeging-iron, 
or, if you have not one, a sharp knife; run 
it along the sheet, and cut the dough into 
long narrow slips. Twist them up in va- 
rious forms. Have ready an iron pan 
with melted lard. Lay the crullers lightly 
in it, and fry them of a light brown, turn- 
ing them with a knife and fork, so as not 
to break them, and taking care that both 
sides are equally done. ' 

When sutiiciently fried, spread them on 
a large dish to cool, and grate loaf-sugar 
over Uiem. 

Crullers may be made iu a plainer way, 
with the best brown sugar, (rolled very 
fine,) and without spice or ros^water. 

They can be fried, or rather boiled, in a 
deep iron pot. Thuy should be dune in a 
larc^e quantity of lard, and taken out with 
a skimmer that has holes in it, and held on 
tlie skimmer till the lard drains from them. 
If for family use, they can be made an inch 
thick. They will keep several • days, and 
be as good as when fresh. 



' WAFFLES. 

Six eggs. 

A pint of milk. 

A quarter of a pound of butter. 

A quarter pound of powdered white sugar. 

A pound and a half of flour, sifted. 

A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 

Warm the milk slightly. Cut up the 
batter in it and stir it a little. Beat the 
eggs well, and poor them into the butter 



and milk. Sprinkle in half the floor, 
gradually. Stir in the sugar, by degrees, 
and add the spice. Stir in, gradually, the 
remainder of the flour, so that it becomes 
a thick batter. 

Heat your waffle-iron; then grease it 
well, and pour in some of the batter. Shut 
the iron tight, and bake the waffle on both 
sides, bv turning the iron. 

As the waffles are baked, spread them 
out separately on a clean napkin. When 
enough are done for a plate-full, lay them 
on a plate in two piles, buttering them, 
and sprinkling each with beaten cinnamon. 



DOUGH-NUTS. 

Three pounds of sifted flour. 

A pound of pmwdered sugar. 

Three quarters of a pound of batter. 

Four eges. 

Half a birge tea-cup full of best brewer's 

yeast. 
A pint and a half of milk. 
A tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. 
A grated nutmeg. 
A table-spoonful of rose-water. 

Cut np the batter in the floor. Add the 
sugar, spice, and rose-water.. Beat the 
eggs very light, and pour them into the 
mixture. Add the yeast, (half a tea-cup 
or. two wine-glasses full,) and then stir in 
the milk by degrees, so as to make it a soA 
doi:^;b. Cover it, and set it to rise. 

When quite light, cut it in diamonds 
with a jagging-iron or a sharp knife, and 
fry them in lard. Grate loaf-sugar over 
them when done. 



SOFT MUFFINS. 

Five eggs. 

A quart of milk. 

Two ounces of butter. 

A tRa-«poouful of salt. 

Two large table-spoonfuls of brewer's yeast 

or four of home-made yeast. 
Enough of sifted flour to make astiff battor. 

Warm the milk and butter together, and 
add to them the tialt. Beat the eggs very 
light and stir tliem into the milk and but- 
ter. Then stir in the yeast, and lastly, 
sufficient flour to make a thick batter. 

Cover the mixture, and set it to rise, in 
a warm place, about tliree hours. 

When it is quite light, grease your bak- 
ing-iron, and your muffin rings. Set die 
rings on the iron, and pour the batter into 
them. Bake them a light brown. When 
yoo split them to pot on the batter, do not 



CAKES, NUTS, AND GINGERBREAD. 



€0t them with » koile, bat poll them mn 
with your hands. Cutting them while not 
will make them heavy. 



INDIAN BATTER CAKES. 

A quart of sifted Indian meal, \ 

A handful of wheat flour sifted, > mixed. 

Three ecgs, well beaten, ' 

Two taUe-sixranfuls of fresh brewer's yeast, 

or four of home-made yeast. 
A tea-spoonful of salt. 
A quart of milk. 

Make the milk quite warm, and then 
pot into it the yeast and salt, stirring them 
well. Beat the eggs, and stir them into 
the mixture. Then, gradually, stir in the 
flcmr and Indian meal. 

Cover the batter, and set it to rise four 
or five hours. Or if the weather is cold, 
and you want the cakes for breakfast, you 
may mix the batter late the nis^t before. 

Should you find it sour in the moroinff, 
dissolve a small tea-spoonftil of pearl-asli 
in as much water as will cover it, and stir 
it into the batter, letting it set afterwards 
at least half an hour. This will take off 
Uie acid. 

Grease vour baking-iron, and pour on 
it a ladle-foil of the batter. When brown 
on one side, turn the cake on the other. 

Indian l»tter cakes may be made in a 
plain and expeditious way, by putting three 
pints of cold water or cold milk into a 
pan, and gradually siftine into it (stirrinff 
all Uie time) a quart of Indian meal mixed 
with half a pint of wheat-flour, and a small 
spoonful of salt. Stir it very hard, and it 
may be baked immediately, as it is not ne- 
cessary to set it to rise. 



CREAM CAKES. 

A quart of cream. 

Four effgs. 

Sifted lour sufficient for a thick batter. 

A small tea-spoonful of pearl-ash, or a 

larger one of sal-eeratus. 
A small tea-epoonful of salt. 

Beat four eggs till very light, and stir 
them by degrees into a quart of cream. 
Add, gradually, enough of sifted flour to 
make a thick baiter. Put in the salt. 
Dissolve the peart-ash in as much vinegar 
as will cover it, and stir it in at the last. 

B^e the mixture in mufiin-rings. Send 
Ae cakes to table quite hot. PuU them 
c^n, and butter them. 

For these cakes sour cream is better than 
sweet. 



FLANNEL CAKES OR CRUMP! 

Two pounds of flour, sifted. 

Four egn. 

Three taole-spoonfols of the best hieira^ 

yeast, or four and a half of h<»ie-iBsdi 

yeast. 
A pint of milk. 



Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with the flov, 
aad set the pan before the fire. Then warn 
the milk, and stir into it the flour, so m 
to make a stiff batter. Beat the e^s verr 
light, and stir them into the yeast. Add 
the egss and yeast to the batter, and best 
all weir togetlier. If it is too atiff, add i 
little more warm milk. 

Cover the pan closely and set it to tim 
near the fire. Bake it, when quite light. 

Have your baking-iron hot. Grease it, 
and pour on a ladle-full of batter. Let it 
bake slowlv, and when done on one side, 
turn it on the other. 

Butter the cakes, cut them a(ax)ss, and 
send them to table hot. 



ROLLS. 

Three pints of flour, sifted. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt. 

Four table-spoonfuls of the best brewer's 

yeast, or six of home-made yeast. 
A pint of luke-warm water. 
Half a pint more of warm water, and a 

little more flour to mix in before the 

kneading. 

Mix the salt with the flour, and make a 
deep hole in the middle. Stir the warm 
water into the yeast, and pour it into the 
hole in the flour. Stir it with a spoon just 
enough to make a thin batter, andf sprinkle 
some flour over the top. Cover the pan, 
and set it in a warm place for several hours. 

When it is light, add half a pint more 
of luke-warm water ; and make it, with a 
little more flour, into a dough. Knead it 
very well for ten minutes. Then divide it 
into small pieces, and knead each separate- 
ly. Make them into round cakes or rolls. 
Cover them, and set them to rise about an 
hour and a half. 

Bake them, and when done, let them re- 
main in the oven, without the lid, for about 
ten minutes. 



RICE CAKES FOR BREAKFAST. 

Put half a pound of rice in ^ak over 
niffht. Early in the morning boil it very 
soft, drain it firom the water, mix with it 
a quarter of a pound of butter and set it 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 



mnny to oooL When it is eold, stir it into 
a (fuart of milk, and add a very little salt. 
BcMt six eggs, and sift half a pint of flour. 
3tir the e^ and floor alternately into the 
rice and mOk. Having beaten the whole 
very well, bake it en the griddle in cakes 
about the size of a small dessert-plate. 
Butler them, and send them to table iiot. 



JELLY CAKE. 

Stir UM^etfaer till very' light, half a pomid 
of fresh butter and half a pound of pow- 
dered white sugar. Beat twelve eggs very 
light, and stir uiem into the butter and su- 
ffar, alternately with a pound of sifted flour. 
Add a beateta nutmeg, and half a wine- 
glass of rose-water. Have ready a flat 



circular plate of tin, which must be laid 
on your griddle, or in the oven of your 
stove, and well greased with butter. Pour 
on it a large laidle-full of the batter, and 
bake it as you would a buck-wheat cake, 
takinff care to have it of a good shape* 
It will not require turning. Bake as many 
of these cakes as you want, laying each on 
a separate plate. Then spread jelly or 
marmalade all over the top ci each cake, 
and laj another upon it. Spread that also 
with jelly, and so on till you have a pile 
of five or six, looking like one large thick 
cake. Trim the edge nicely with a pen- 
knife, and cover the top with powdered 
sugar. Or you may ice it; putting on the 
nonpareils or sugar-sand in such a manner 
as to mark out the cake in triangular di- 
visions. When it is to be eaten, cut it in 
three-cornered slices as you would a pie. 



•WMWMtMIMM 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 



In preparing sugar for sweetmeats, let it be entirely dissolved, 
before you put it on the fire. If you dissolve it in water, allow 
about half a pint of water to a pound of sugar. 

If you boil the sugar before you add the fruit to it, it will be 
improved in clearness by passing it through a flannel bag. Skim 
off the brown scum, all the time it is boiling. 

If sweetmeats are boiled too long, they lose their flavor and 
become of a dark color. 

If boOed too short a time, they will not keep well. 

You may ascertain when jelly is done, by dropping a small 
spoonful into a glass of water. 

If it spreads and mixes with the water, it requires more boiling. 
If it sinks in a lump to the bottom, it is sufficiently done. This 
trial must be made after the jelly is cold. 

Raspberry jelly requires more boiling than any other sort. 
Black currant jelly less. 

Keep your sweetmeats in glass jars, or in those of white queen's 
ware. 

28 



SWEETMEATS AND JELLIES. 



BLANCMANGE. 

Poor ealf '■ feet. 

A pint and a half of thick cream.* 

Half a pound of loaf-sugar, broken up. 

A glan of wine.. 

Half a glass of rose-water. 

A tea-spoonful of mace, beaten and siAed. 

Get four calf Vfeet; if possible some 
that have been scalded, and not skinned. 
Scrape, and clean them well, and boil them 
in three quarts of water till all the meat 
drops off the bone. Drain the liquid 
through a colander or sieve, and skim it 
weU. Let it stand till next morning to 
congeal. Then clean it well from the sed- 
iment, and put it into a tin or bell-meial 
kettle. Stir into it, the cream, sugar, and 
maoe. Boil it hard for five minutes, stir- 
ring it several times. Then strain it 
through a linen cloth or napkin into a 
Urge bowl, and add the wine and rose- 
water. 

Set it in a cool place fi)r three or four 
hours, stirring it very frequently with a 
spoon, to prevent the cream from separat- 
ing from the jelly. The more it is stirred 
the better. Stir it till it is cool. 

Wash your moulds, wipe them dry, and 
then wet them with cold water. When tlie 
blancmange becomes very thick, (that is, 
in three or four hours, if the weatlier is not 
too damp) put it into your moulds. 

When it has set in them till it is quite 
firm, loosen it carefully all round with a 
knife, and turn it out on glass or china 
plates. 

If you wish to make 4t with, almonds, 
take an oupce of blanched bitter almonds, 
and two ounces of sweet. Beat tliem in a 
mortar to a fine paste, pouring in occasion- 
ally a little rose-water. When the mixture 
is ready to boil, add the almonds to it grad- 
ually, stirring them well in. Or you may 
stir them in, while it is cooling in the 
bowl. 

If it inclines to stick to the moulds, set 
them an instant in hot water. It will then 
turn out easily. 

If you choose to make it without calf's 
feet, you can substitute an ounce of the best 
and clearest isinglass (or, if in summer, an 
ounce and a quarter) boiled with the other 
ingredients. If made with isigglass, you 
must use two ounces of sweet, and an ounce 
of bitter almonds, with the addition of the 
grated rind of a large lemon, and a large 
stick of cinnamon, broken up, a^lass of 
wine, and half a glass of rose-water. These 

/ 

■* Blancmange is greatly improved by boiling 
In the cream an ounce of bitter almonds brok- 
en in pteces, or a handful of peach-leaves. 



ingredients most be aU mixed togeifaer, wiA 
a quart of cream, and boiled hard for five 
minutes. The mixture must then be stram- 
ed through a napkin, into a large bowL 
Set it in a cool phce, and stir it freqoentiy 
till nearly cold. It must then be put into 
the moulds. 

You may substitute for the almonds, 
half a gill of noyau, in which cane, omit 
the wine. 



CALF»S-FEET JELLY. 

Eight calf's feet. 

Three quarts of water. 

A pint of white wine. 

Three lemons. 

The whiles of six efga- 

Half an ounce of cinnamon. 

Half pound loaf-sugar, broken into lamps. 

Endeavor to procure calf's-feet, that 
have been nicely scalded, bat not akinned, 
as tlie skin being left on, makes the jelly 
much firmer. 

The day before yon want to use the jelly, 
boil the eight calf's-feet in three quarts of 
water, till the meat drops from the bone. 
When sufficiently done, put it into a colan- 
der or sieve, and let the liquid drain from 
the meat, into a iH-oad pan or dish. Skim 
off tlie fat. Let the jelly stand till next 
day, and then carefully scrape off the sedi- 
ment from the bottom. It will be a firm 
jelly, if too nrach water has not been used, 
andf if it has boiled Ion? enough. If it is 
not firm at first, it will not become so af- 
terwards when boiled with the other ingre- 
dients. There should on no account be 
more than three quarts of water. 

Early next morning, put tlie jelly into a 
tin kettle, or covered tin pan ; set it on the 
lire, and meit it a little. Take it off, and 
season it with tlie cinnamon slightly broken, 
a pint of Madeira wine, three lemons cut 
in thin slices, and half a pound of loaf- 
sugar, broken up. 

If you wish it high-colored, add two ta* 
ble-spoonfuls of French brandy. Mix all 
well together. Beat, slightly, the whites 
of six egg^( savins the egg-shell) and stir 
the whites into the jelly. Break up the 
egg-shells into very small pieces, and tnrow 
them in also. Stir the whole very well 
together. 

Set it on the fire, and boil it hard five 
minutes, but do not stir it, as that will pre- 
vent its clearing. HaTe ready a kurse 
white flannel bag, the top wide, and tha 
bottom tapering to a point. 

Tie the bag to the backs of twp chairs, 
or to the legs of a table, and set a white 
disli or a mould under it. 

After the jelly has boiled five minntMy 



SWEETMEATS. 



29 



pour it hot into the bag, and let it drip 
through into the dish. Do not squeeze the 
bag, as that will make the jelly dull and 
cloudy. 

If It is not clear the first time it passes 
through the bag, empty out aU the ingre- 
dients, wash the bag, suspend it again, put 
another white dish under it, pour the jelly 
back into the bag, and let it drip through 
'again. Repeat this six or eight times, or 
till it is clear, putting a clean dish imder it 
every time. If it does not drip freely, 
move the bag into a warmer place./ 

When the jelly has all dripped through 
the b^, and is clear, set it in a cool place 
to congeal. - It will sometimes congeal im- 
mediately, and sometimes not for several 
hours, particularly if the weather is warm 
and damp. If the weather is very cold vou 
must take care not to let it freeze. When 
it is quite firm, which perhaps it will not 
be till evening, fill your glasses with it, 
piling it up very high. If you make it in 
a mould, you must either set the mould un- 
der the bag while it is dripping, or pour 
it from the dish into the mould while it is 
liquid. When it is perfectly congealed, 
dip the mould for an instant in boiling water 
to loosen the jelly. Turn it out on a glass 
dish. 

This quantity of ingredients will make 
a quart of jelly when finished. In cool 
weather it maybe made a day or two before 
it is wanted. 

You may increase the seasoning, (that is, 
the wine, lemon, and cinnamon,) according 
to your taste, but less than the above pro- 
portion will not be sufficient to flavor the 



jelj. 



Loe jelly is made in the same maimer, 
only not so stiff. Four calves-feet will be 
sufficient. Freeze it as you would ice- 
cream, and serve it up in glasses. 



APPLE JELLY. 

Take the best pippin, or bell-flower ap- 
ples. No others will make good jelly. 
Fare, core, and quarter them. Lay them 
in a preserving kettle, and put to them as 
much water only, as will cover them, and 
as much lemon-peel as you choose. Boil 
them till they are sofl, but not till they 
break. Dram off the water through a co- 
lander, and mash the apples with the back 
of a spoon. Put them into a jelly-bag, set 
a deep dish or pan under it, and squeeze out 
the juice. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar, broken up, and the juice of 
two lemons. Put the apple-juice, the su- 
gar, and the lemon-juice, into the preserv- 
ing kettle. Boil it twenty minutes, skim- 
Dung it well. Take it immediately from 



the kettle, and pour it warm into your 
glasses, but not so hot as to break tfiem. 
When cold, cover each glass with white 
paper dipped in brandy, and tie it down 
tight with another paper. Keep them in a 
cool place. 

Qaince JeUy is made in the same man- 
ner, but do not pare the quinces. Quarter 
them only. 



RED CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash your currants, drain them, and 
pick them from the stalks. Mash them 
with the back of a spoon. Put them in a 
jelly-bag, and squeeze it till all the juice is 
pressed out. 

To every pint of juice, allow a pound of 
the best loaf-sugar. Put the juice and the 
sugar into your kettle, and boil them twei>> 
ty minutes, skimming all the while. Pour 
it warm into your glasses, and when cold, 
tie it up with orandy paper. Jellies should 
never be allowed to get cold in the kettle. 
If boiled too long, they will lose their fla- 
vor, and become of a dark color. 

Strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, and 
grape jelly may be made in the same man- 
ner, and with the same proportion of loaP 
sugar. 

Red currant jelly may also be made in a 
very simple manner, by putting the currants 
whole into the kettle, with the sugar; a^ 
lowing a pound of sugar to a pound of cur- 
rants. Boil them together twenty minutes, 
skimming carefully. Then pour them into 
a sieve, with a pan under it. Let them 
drain through the sieve into the pan, presa- 
ingthem down with the back of a spoon. 

Take the. jelly^ while warm, out of the 
pan, and put it into your glasses. Tie it 
up with brandy paper when cold. 

This jelly is best made of an equal quan- 
tity of red and white currants. 



BLACK CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick the currants from the stalks, wash 
and drain them. Mash them sofl with a 
spoon, put them in a bs^, and scjueeze out 
the juice. To each pint of juice, allow 
three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Put the juice and sugar into a preserving 
kettle, and boil them about ten minutes, 
skimming them well. Take it immediate- 
ly out of the kettle. Put it warm into 
your glasses. Tie it up with brandy paper. 

The juice of black currants is so very 
thick, that it requires less sugar and lea* 
boiling than any other jelly. 



8WEETBIEATS. 



GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

Cut the gootebemes in half, (they mwt 
be yreeo) and put them in a jar closely 
covered. Set the jar in an oven, or pot 
filled with boiling water. Keep the watw 
boiling looad ttw jar till the gooseberries 
are am, take them out, maih UMm with a 
noon, and put them into a jelly-bi^ to 
drain. 'When all the juice is s^ueexedout, 
measure it, and to a pint of juice, allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Put the juice and 
sugar into the preserving kettle, and boil 
them twenty minutes, skimming carefully. 
Put the jelly warm into your glasses. Tie 
them up with brandy paper. 

Cranberry jelly is made in the same 
manner. 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Pick the grapes firom the stems, wash 
and drain them. Mash them with a apoon. 
Put them in the preserving kettle, ana cov- 
er them closely with a large plate. Boil 
them ten minutes. Then pour them into 
your ielly bag, and s()ueeze out the juice. 

Allow a pint of juice to a pound of sugar. 
Put the sugar and juice into your kettle, 
and boil them twenty minutes, skimming 
them well. 

FiU your glasses while the jelly is warm, 
and tie them tip with brandy papers. 



pe;ach jelly. 

Wipe the wool off your peaches, (which 
should be free-stones and not too ripe) and 
cut them in quarters. Crack the stones, 
and break the kernels small. 

Put the peaches and the kernels into a 
covered -jar, set them in boiling water, and 
let them boil till they are soft. 

Strain them through a jelly-bag, till all 
tlie juice is squeezed out. Allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar to a pint of juice. Put the 
sugar and juice into a preserving kettle, 
and boil them twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully. 

Put the jelly warm into ^our glasses, and 
when cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

Plum, and green-gage jelly may be made 
in the same manner, with the kernels, 
which greatly improve the flavor. 



PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Pare and core your quinces, carefully 
taking out the parts that are knotty and 



defectivv. Cot them uit« qoarlen, or iato 
round slices. Pnt them into a pr eecrv ing 
kettle, and cover them with the parings 
and a very little water. Lay a large plate 
over them to keep in the steam, and boil 
them tiU they are tender. 

Take out the auinoes, and strain the 
liquor tluiough a bag. To every pint of 
liquor, allow a pouna of knf-sugar. Boil 
the juice and sti^gar together, about ten 
minutes, skimming it well. Tfaeo put in 
the quinces, and noil them gentfy twenty 
minutes. When the sugar seems to have 
completely penetrated them, take them out, 
put them in a glass jar, and pour the juice 
over them warm. Tie them up» whSn cold, 
with brandy 'paper. 

In preserving finit that is boiled fint 
without the sucar, it is generally better 
(after the first boiling) to let it stand till 
next day before you put the sugar to it. 



PRESERVED PIPPINS. 

Pare and core some of the ki^est and 
finest pippins. Put diem in your preserv- 
ing kettle,* with some lemon-peel, and all 
the apple-parings. Add a very little water, 
and cover them closely. Boil them till 
they are tender, taking care they do not 
burn. Take out the apples, and spread 
than on a large dish to cool. Pour the 
liquor into a bag, and strain it well. Put 
it into your kettle with a poimd of loaf- 
su^r to each pint of juice, and add lemon 
juice to your taste. Boil it five minutes, 
skimming it well. Then put in the whole 
apples, and boil them slowly half an hour, 
or till they are quite soft and dear. Put 
them with the juice, into your jars, and 
when quite cold, tie them up with brandy 
paper. 

Preserved apples are only intended ibr 
present use, as they will not keep long. 

Pears may be done in the same way, 
either whole or cut in half. Thev may be 
flavored either with lemon or cinnamon, 
or both. The pears for preserving should 
be green. 



PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Take the largest and finest free-stone 
peaches, before they are too ripe. Pare 

* The U9e of brass or bell metal kettles is 
now almost entirely superseded by tbe enam- 
elled kettles of iron lined witb china, called 
preserving kettles ; brass and bell-metal hav 
ing always been objectionable on accouttt of 
the verdigris which collects in tbem* 



J 



SWEETMEATS. 



31 



them, and cat them io halves or Id quarters. 
Crack the stones, and take out the kernels, 
and break tliem in pieces. Put the peach- 
es, with the parings and kernels, into your 
preserving kettle, with a very little water. 
Boil them till they are tender. Take out 
the peaches and spread them on a Jarge 
dish to cool. Strain the liquor through a 
bag or sieve. Next day, measure the Juice, 
and to each pint allow a pound of loaf- 
sugar, v Put the juice and sugar into the 
kettle with the peaches, and boil them 
slowly half an hour, or till they' are quite 
soft, skimming all the time. Take the 
peaches out, put them into your jars, and 
pour the warm liquor over them. When 
cold, tie them up with brandy paper. 

If boiled too long, they will look dull, 
and be of a dark color.* 

If you do not wish the juice to be very 
thick, do not put it on to boil with the 
sugar, but first boil the sugar alone, with 
onlv as much water as will dissolve it, 
and skim it well. Let the sugar, in all 
cases, be entirely melted before it goes on 
the fire. Having boiled the sugar and 
water, and skiitimed it to a clear sirup, 
then put in your juice and fruit together, 
and boil them till completely penetrated 
with the sugar. 



ANOTHER WAY OF PRESERVING 
PEACHES. ' 

Take large juicy ripe free-stone peaches, 

fiare them and cut them in quarters. Crack 
lalf the stones, and blanch the kernels in 
scalding water. Weigh the peaches, and 
to each pound allow a pound of loaf-su^^ar. 
Mix them with the kernels, lay them m a 
deep dish, or tureen, and mix with them 
^Iso the sugar. Cover them and let them 
set all night. 

In the morning put the peaclies and su- 
gar with the kernels into a preserving ket- 
tle, and boil them till soft and clear; skim- 
ming diem caj'efuily. Use no water, as 
the juice that has been drawn out while 
they lay in the sugar will be sufficient. 

When cold, put them in jars and tie 
them up with brandy-paper, leaving the 
kernels among them. 

Green gages and plums may be done in 
this manner when quite ripe, using also 
half the kernels. 

* To preserve peaches whole, pare them 
an4 thrust out the stones with a skewer. 
Then proceed as above, only blanch the ker- 
nels and keep them whole. When the peach- 
es are done, stick a kernel into the hole of 
every peach, before you put them into the Jars, 
lisrge fruit will keep best in broad shallow 



PRESERVED CRAB APPLES 



Wash your fruit. Cover the bottom of 
your preserving kettle with grape leaves, 
rot in the apples. Hang them over the 
fire, with a verr little water, and cover 
them closely. Do not allow them to boil, 
but let them simmer gently till tliey are yel- 
low. Take tliem out, and spread them on 
a large dish to cool. Pare and ^core then. 
Put them again into the kettle, with fresh 
vine-leaves under and over them, and a 
very little water. Hang them over the 
fire till they are green. Do not let than 
boil. 

Take them out, weigh them, and allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar to a pound of crab- 
apples. Put to the sugar just water enough 
to dissolve it. When it is all melted, pot 
it on the fire, and boil and skim it. Theo 
put in your firuit, and boil the apples till 
they are quite clear and soft. Put them 
in jars, and pour the warm liquor over 
them. When cold, tie them up with brai>- 
dy paper. 



PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Cut your plums in half, (they must not 
be quite ripe,) and take out the stones. 
Weigh the plums, and allow a pound of 
loaf-sugar to a pound of fruit. Crack the 
stones, take out the kernels and break them 
in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels very 
slowly for about fifteen nvinutes, in as little 
water as possible. Then spread them on 
a large dish to cool, and strain the liquor. 

Next day make your sirup. Melt the 
sugar in as little water as will suffice to 
dissolve it, (about a ^fll of water to a 
pound of sugar) and boil it a few minutes, ' 
skimming it till quite clear. Then put io 
yonr plums with the liquor, and boil them 
fifteen minutes. * Put them in jars, pour 
the juice over them warm, and tie them 
up, when cold, with brandy paper. 

Plums for common use, are very good done 
in molasses. Put your plums into an earthen 
vessel tliat holds a gallon, having first slit 
each plum with a knife. To three quarts 
of plums put a pint of molasses. Cover 
them and set them on hot coals in the 
chimney corner. Let them stew for twelve 
hours or more, occasionally stirring them, 
and renewing the coals. Next day put 
them up in jars. Done in this manner 
they will keep till the next spring. 

Simps may be improved in clearness, 
by addin? to the dissolved sugar and water^ 
some white of egg very well beaten, allow- 
ing the white of one egff to two pounds of 
sugar. Boil it very hard, (adding tht 
egg-shells) and skim it well, that it may 
be quite clear before yon put in your fruit. 



SWEETMEATS. 



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh the etrmwberriee after you have 
picked off the etenu. To each pound of 
fruit allow a pound of kMf-aagar, which 
■Milt be powdered. Strew half of the su- 
gar over the ■trawberries, and let them 
•taad in a c<^d place two or three hours. 
Th«i put them in a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire, and by degrees strew on the 
rest of the sugar. Boil them fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and skim them well. 

Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, and 
when cold, seal the corks. 

If you wish to do them whole, take them 
carefully out of tlie sirup, (one at a time) 
while ^boiling. Spread them to cool on 
large dishes, not letting the strawberries 
touch each other, and when cool, return 
them to the sirup, and boil them a little 
longer. Repeat this several times. 

Keep the bottles in dry sand, in a place 
that is cool and not damp. 

Gooseberries, currants, raspberries, cher- 
ries and grapes may be done in the same 
manner. The stunes must be taken from 
the cherries (which should be morellas, or 
the largest and best red cherries ; ) and the 
seeds should be extracted from the erapes 
with the sharp point of a penkuife. Goose- 
berries, grapes, and cherries, require long- 
er boiling than strawberries, raspberries or 
currants. 



PRESERVED CRANBERRIES. 

Wash your cranberries, weigh them, and 
to each pound allow a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Dissolve the sugar in a very little water, 
(about a gill of water to a pound of sugar) 
and set it on the fire in a preserving kettle. 
Boil it nearly ten minutes, skimming it 
well. Then put in yom' cranberries, and 
boil them slowly, till they are quite soft, 
and of a fine colour. 

Put them warm into your jars or glasses, 
and tie them up with brandy paper, when 
culd. 

All sorts of sweetmeats keep better in 
glasses, than in stone or eartlien jars. 
When opened for use, they should be tied 
up again immediately, as exposure to the 
air spoils theui. 

Common glass tumblers are very conve- 
nient for jellies, and preserved small fruit. 
White jars are better than stone or earth- 
en, for kirge fruit. 



be of an equal sice, mx indies in length, 
and an inch broad. Weigh theas, and al- 
low to each pound of pumpkin chips, a 
pound of loaPsugar. Have ready a suffi- 
cient number of fine lenooos, pare off the 
Jrellow rind, and lay it aside. Cut the 
enyns in half, and squeeie the juice into 
a bowl. Allow a gill of juice to eac^ pound 
of pumpkin. 

Put the pumpkin into abroad pan laying 
the sugar among it. Poor the kanoo-juioe 
over it. Cover the pan, and let the pomp- 
kin chips, sugar and lemcm-juioey net all 
ni^t. 

Early in the morning put the whole into 
a preserving pan, and boil all to||etlier 
(skimming it vrell) tiH the pumpkin be- 
comes clear and crisp, bat not till it In-eaks. 
It should have the a{q3earance of lemon- 
candy. You may if you choose, put some 
lemon-peel with it, cut in very small pieces. 

Half an hour's boiling (or a little nuMPe) 
is generally sufficient. 

When it is done, take out the pumpkin, 
spread it on a large dish, and strain the 
sirup through a hkg. Put tlie pumpkin 
into your iars or glasses, pour the sirup 
over It, and tie it up with brandy paper. 

If properly done, tliis is a very fine 
sweetmeat. The taste of the pumpkin 
will be lost in that of the lemon and sugar, 
and the sirup is particularly pleasant. It 
is eaten without cream, like preserved 
ginger. It may be laid on putf-paste shells, 
after they are baked. 



PRESERVED PUMPKIN. 

^ Cut slices from a fine high-colored pump- 
kin, and cut the slices into chips about toe 
thickness of a dollar. The chips should 



RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit. Mash the raspberries and put them 
with the sugar into your preserving-kettle. 
Boil it slowly for an hour, skimming it 
well. Tie it up with brandy paper. 

All jams are made in the same mannor. 



PRESERVED PINE-APPLE. 

Pare your pine-apples, and cut them in 
thick slices taking out tlie core. Weigh 
the slices and to each pound allow a pound 
of loaf-sugar. Dissolve the sugar in a very 
small quantity of water, stir it, and set it 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle. Boil 
it ten minutes, skimming it well. Then 
put in it the pine-apple slices, and boil 
them till they are clear and soft, but not 
till they break. About half an hour (or 
perhaps less time) will .suffice. Let them 
cool in a large dish or pan, before you put 
them into your jars, which you must do 
carefully, lest they break. Pour the sirup 
over them. Tie them up with brandy paper. 



SWEimiEATS. 



NOTHER WAY OP PRESERVING 
PINE-AiPFLES. 

Xlariaig pared yow pine^apploB, siiw 
em and take out the core from the mid- 
m of each slice, leaving a round hole, 
o each pound of pine-apple allow a poiaid 
r loaf-sugar. Mix half the sugar with 
be pine-apple, and let them lie m it all 
ieht, or lor several hours, to extract the 
II ce. Then mix them with the remaining 
eOf of the sugar, and put the whcrfe into a 
reserving-kettle. Boil it till Oiey are 
lear and tender, but not till the slices 
reak. Skim it weU. Set it away to 
ool, and then put it into large glass-jars 
ied up with brandy-paper. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two quarts of West India Molasses. 
One pound of brown sugar. 
The juice of two large lemons, or a tea- 
spoonful of strong essence of kmon. 



Mix together tlie molasses and sugar- 
taking care to use West India Molasses, 
which for this purpose is much the best. 

Pat the mixture into a preserving-kettle, 
and boil it for three hours over a moderate 
fire. When it is thoroughly done, it will 
of itself cease boiling. ^ If sufficiently boil- 
ed it will be crisp anS britde when cold. 
If 'not boiled enough, it wiU never congeal. 



but wiMlie lou^ airf «iKr: and moA h% 

boiled over agaw. . ^ _, j 

While boiliog, Btir it fi«!«»<Jy» ">* 
take care that it does not Iwm. A««r it 
has boiled about two hours and a Wf, atir 
in the kwion-juioe or the esseooe of «»«• 
It will be improved by addiaff the ycUMT 
rind of the lemon, grated ao fine aa noC to 
be visible when boiled. If A« *»«> " 
put in too soon, all the taste will be boded 

out. 

When it is quite done, butter a square 
tin pan and pour the mixture into it to cool. 

If you prefer it with ground nuts, roaat 
a quart of them, and then shell and blaaeh 
them. Stir the ground-nuts into the mix- 
ture, a few minutes before you take it from 
the fire. Stir them in, gradually. lathe 

same manner you may n»l^« \,^^"'. *5' 
monds. The almonds must be bbnched, 
cut in pieces and stirred in raw, when the 
molasses and sugar have just done boiling. 
If you wish to make it yellow, take ^pmo 
out of the tin pan while it is yet virarm, imd 
pull it out into a thick string between the 
thumb and fore-finger of both hand^ Ex- 
tend your arms widely as you puU the candy 
back and forwards. By repeating this for 
a long time it will graduaJly become of a 
light yellow color, and of a spongy consist- 
ence. When it is quite yellow, roll it into 
sticks; twist two sticks together, and art 
them^off sgioothly at both ends. Or, you 
i may variegate it by twisting toffether a 
1 T^ck that £ quite yAow and one Siat, not 
i having been io much puUed, still remaiM 
brown. 



jjj ijMWll*^ w***^ f^*' 



OYSTERS. 



SPICED OYSTERS. 



Two hundred large fresh oysters. 

Four table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar. 

A nutmeg, grated. 

Three dozen of cloves, whole. 

Ki<rbt blades of mace, whole. 

Two tea-spoonfuls of salt if ihe oysters are 

fresh. ^ , , 11 • 

Two tea-spoonfuls of whole allspice, 
irmuch cayenne pepper as will lie on the 

point of a knife. 



Put the oysters, with their liquor, into 

a ter^ e^then pitcher. Add to them the 

SiieiSir and all the other ingredients. Stir 

VS^Xl together. Set them m the stove, 

Sr ^er a s%w fire, keeping them covered. 

TaSe them off the fire several times, and 

«tW^^hftn to the bottom. As soon as they 

.S^Il Xtetely thay ai-e B«ffi<t"hLf"'' 

STthey bSil toi long they Y»" ^.^^^V w 

" T>Jr i\yom dirpctlv nut of the pitcher 



, into a pan, and set -them away to cool. 
They must not be eaten till quite cold, or 
indeed till next day. 

If you wish to keep them \ week, put a 
smaller quantity of spice, or they will taste 
too much of it by setting so long. Let 
them be well covered. 

OysVers in the shell may »«.>«?'»" "''T 
ter 6y laving them in a heap m the eellar. 
with <he concave Bide upwards to hold m 
0.e li luor. Sprinkle Uiem every day with 
rt^ng salt and water, and then wUh Induin 
meal? Cover them with m^ung or an 
old carpet. 



OTEWED OYSTERS. 

^pen the oyrter. and i*"'"** ^^A. 
piZ the liquor «.me l^'^^.^i. 
and a Uttle pepper •^^^'tS^wlth 



94 



OTSTERET. 



bot over the diih of raw oyilan. Thif 
will cook them aufficiently. 

Have ready some aUces of buttered toast 
with the crust cut off. When the oysters 
■re doae, dip the toast in the liquor, and 
lay the pieces round the sides and in the 
bottom of a deep dish. Pour the oysters 
and liquor upon the toast, and send them 
to table hot. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

Three pints of large firesh oysters. 

Two table-spoonfub of butter, rolled in 

flour. 
A bunch of sweet herbs. 
A saucer full of dropped celery. 
A quart of rich milk. 
Pepper to your taste. 

Take the liquor of three pints of oysters. 
Strain it, and set it on the fire. Put into 
it, pepper to your taste, two table-spoonfuls 
' of butter rolled in flour, and a bimch of 
sweet marjoram and other pot-herbs, with 
a saucer full of chopped celery. When it 
boils, add a quart of rich milk— and as 
soon as it boils again, take out the herbs, 
and pat in the ovsters just before you send 
it to table. Boiling them in the soup will 
shrivel them and destroy their taste. Leave 
in the celery. Toast several slices of bread . 
Cut them into small squares, and put them 
into tiie soup before it goes to table. 



ANOTHER WAY OF STEWING 
OYSTERS. 

Strain all the liquor from the oysters, 
and thicken tlie liquor with stale bread 
grated (which is much better than Hour) 
some whole pepper, and some mace. G rate 
some nutmeg mlo it. Boil the liquor with- 
out the oysters, — adding a piece of butter 
rolled in flour. 

Lay a slice of buttered toast in the bot- 
tom of a deep dish, and surround the sides 
with small slices cut into three corner or 
pointed pieces. All the crust must be cut 
ofl" from the toast. 

Put the raw oysters into the dish of toast, 
and when tlie liquor has boiled hard, pour 
it scalding hot over them. Cover the dish 
closely, and let it set for five minutes or 
more, before you send it to table. This 
will cook the oysters sufficiently, will swell 
them to a larger size, and cause them to 
retain more of their flavor than when stew- 
ed in the liquor. 

Take care not to make it too thick with 
the grated bread. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

For fryii^, choose the largest and 
o}^ter8. Beat some yolks of effga, 
mix with them grated bread, uad a 
(quantity of beaten nutmeg and noace 
little salt. Having stirred thn batten 
dip your oysters into it, and fry them 
lard, tUl they are of a light brown 
Take care not to do them too mocb. 
them up hot. 

For grated bread, some subetitate ( 
ers iponnded to a powder, and mixed 
yolk of egg and spice. 



BAKED OR SCOLLOPED OYSTERSj 

Grate a small loaf of stale-bread. Bw 
ter a deep dish well^, and cover the sidd 
and bottom with bread crams. Pot ii 
half the oysters with a little mace and pew 
per. Cover them with crums and smsl 
oits of butter strewed over them. Tbet 
put in the remainder of the oysters. Seti 
son them.^ Cover them as before wUhl 
crums and butter. If the oysters aie 
fresh, pour in a little of the liquor. If 
they are salt, subetitate a liitle wat»J 
Bake them a very short tone. You naji 
cook them in the small scolloped disfaoj 
made for the purpose. 



OYSTER-SAUCE. 

When your oysters are opened, take care 
of all the liquor, and give them one bo3 
in it. Then take the oysters out, and pot 
to the liquor three or four blades of maoe. 
Add to it some melted butler, and some 
thick cream or rich milk. Pot in yoor 
oysters and give them a boil. As soon at 
they come to a boil, take them oflT the fire. 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Four hundred large fresh oysters. 

A pint of vinegar. 

Eight spoonfuls of salt. 

A pint of white wine. 

Six table-spoonfuls of whole black pepper. 

Eight blades of mace. 

Strain the liquor of the oysters and boil 
it. Then pour it hot over the oysters, and 
let them lie in it about ten minutes. Then 
take them out, and cover them. Boil tbs 
liquor with the salt, pepper, maoe, vin^|ar 
and wine. When c61d, put the oysters in 
a close jar, and pour the liquor over them. 
Cover the jar very tight, and the dyiten 
will keep a long time. 

If the oysters are salt, pat no salt to the 
liquor. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



TERRAPINS. 

Havinf boiled yoar terrapins for ten 
mioates, take them out of the water and 
pall off the outer shell. Then boil them 
again, till the claws become tender. 

Afterwards take them out of the inner 
nbell, and be careful not to break the gall, 
which must be taken from die liver and 
thrown away: likewise throw away the 
spongy part; all the rest beinff fit to eat. 

Cut the terrapins into small pieces, put 
them into a siew-pan, with a little salt, 
cayenne pepper, and some batter. After 
they have stewed a few minutes in the but- 
ter, pour in a very small quantity of water, 
in the proportion of a wine-gmss-fiill to 
each terrapin. 

When they have stewed about ten min- 
utes, add some butter rolled in flour, and 
a glass of white wine to each terrapin, and 
let them stew five minutes longer. Then 
take them from the fire. 

Have ready some beaten yolk of egg 
(allowing one yolk for two terrapins) stir 
it in, cover the pan tightly, let it set for 
five or six minutes, then put it into a tur- 
een or deep dish and send it to table. 



A-LA-MODE BEEF. 

A round of fresh beef weighing from eight- 
een to twenty pounds. 

A pound of the fat of bacon or corned pork. 

The marrow from the 1 
bone of the beef, 1 . , ^ __, 

A quarter of a pound > chopped together. 

of beef^suet, j 

Two bundles of pot herbs, parsley, thyme, 
small onions, &c. chopped fine. 

Two large bunches of ^ sufficient when 
sweet marjoram, f powdered to make 

Two bunches of sweet f four table-spoon- 
basil, Jfulsofeach. 

Two large nutmegs ) ^^^^ ^^ ^ 

Half an ounce of cloves, i . '^ 

Half an ounce of mace, 

One (able-spoonful of salt. 

One tsible-spoonful of pepper. 

Two glasses of Madeira wine. 

If your a-Ia-mode beef is to be eaten 
cold, prepare it three days before it is 
wanted. 

Take out the bone. Fasten up the open- 
ing with skewers, and tie the meat all 
round with tape. Rub it all over on both 
aides with salt. A large round of beef 
will be more tender than » small one. 

Chop the marrow and suet together. 
Pound the spice. Chop the pot-herbs very 
fine. Pick the sweet marjoram and sweet 
basil clean from the stalks, and rub the 
leaves to a powder. You must have at 
least four table-spoonfuls of each* Add the 



pepper and salt, and mix well together all 
the ingredients that compose the seasoning. 

Cut tlie fat of the bacon or pork into 
pieces about a quarter of an inch thick 
and two inches long. With a idiarp knife 
make deep incisions aU over the round of 
beef and very near each othor. Put first 
a little of the seasoning into each hole, 
then a slip of the bacon pressed down hard 
and covered with more seasoning. Pour 
a little wine into each hole. 

When you have thus stufied the appor 
side of the beef, turn it over and stuff in 
the same manner the under side. If the 
round is very large, you will require a 
larger c^uantity of seasoning. 

Put It in a deep baking diiA, pour over 
it some wine, cover it, and let it set till 
next morning. It will be much the better 
for lying all night in the seasoning. 

Nex,t day put a little water in the dish, 
set it in a covered oven, and bake or stew 
it gently for twelve hours at least, or more 
if It is a large round. It will be much 
improved by stewing it in lard. Let it re- 
main all night in the oven. 

If it is to be eaten hot at dinner, put it 
in to stew the evening befi>re, and let it 
cook till dinner-time next day. Stir eosae 
wine and a beaten egg into tne gravy. 

If brought to table cold, cover it aU over 
with green parsley, and stick a lai^ bunch 
of something green in the centre. 

What is left will make an «BoeltoBtkaih 
the next day. 

A BONED TURKEY. 

A large turkey. 

Three sixpenny loaves of stale bread. 

One pound of fresh batter. 

Four eggs. 

One bunch of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, 

and little onions. 
Two bunches of sweet marjoram. 
Two bunches of sweet basil. 
Two nutmegs. >Dowided 

Half an ounce of cloves^ > ^ne 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, ' 
A table-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spoonful of pepper. 

Skewers, tape, needle, and coarse thread 
will be wanted. 

Grate the bread, and put the crosts in 
water to soften. Then break them up 
small into the pan of crumbled bread. Cut 
up a pound of butter in thQ.pan of bread. 
Rub the herbs to powder, and have two 
table-spoonfuls of sneet marjoram and two 
of sweet basil, or more of each if the tur- 
key is very large. Chop the pot-hei%s, 
and pound the spice. Then add the salt 
and pepper, and mix -all the ingredients 
well together. Beat slightly four eggs, and 



36 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



ttix them with the wMoning and bread 
cninui. 

After the turkey is drawn, take a sharp 
knife and, beginninff at the wings, care- 
fully separate the flesh from the bone, scrap- 
ing it down as you go ; and avoid tearing 
or breaking the skin. Next, loosen the 
flesh from the breast and back, and then 
from the thighs. It requires creat care 
and patience to do it nicely. When all the 
flesh is thus loosened, take the turkey by 
the neck, give it a poll, and the skeleton 
will come out entire from the flesh, as 
easily as you draw your hand out of a glove. 
Tbe flesh will then be a sliapeless mass. 
WiUi a needle and thread mend or sew up 
any holes that may be found in the skin. 

T«.ke up a handful of the seasoning, 
squeexe it hard and proceed to stuff the 
turkey with it, beginning at the wings, 
next to the body, and then the thighs. 

If you staff it properly, it will again 
assume its natural shape. Stuff it very 
hard. When all the stuffing is in, sew up 
the breast, and skewer the turkey into its 
proper form, so that it will look as if it had 
not been honed. 

Tie it round with tape and bake it three 
hours or more. Make a ^avy of the gib- 
lets chopped, and enricli it with some wine 
and an egg. 

If the turkey is to be eaten cold, drop 
spoonfuls of red currant jelly all over it, 
and in the dish round it. 

A large fowl may be boned and stuffed 
in the same manner. 



-COLLARED PORK. 

A leg of fresh pork, not large. 

Two table-spoonfuls of powdered sage. 

Two table-spoonfuls of ^ 

sweet marjoram, t ^ ■, 

One table-spoonful of >Pow<*e>^- 

sweet basil, J 

A quarter of an ounce of mace, \ 
Hair an ounce of cloves, > powdered. 

Two nutmeg, ^ 

A bunch ^f pot-herbs, chopped small. 
A sixpenny loaf of stale bread, grated. 
Half a pound of butter, cut into the bread. 
Two eggs. 

A table-spoonful of salt. 
A table-spooniul of black pepper. 

Grate the bread, and having softened 
the crust in" water, mix it with the crums. 
Prepare all the other ingredients, and mix 
them well with the grated bread and egg» 

Take the bone out of a le^ of pork, and 
rub the meat well on both sides with salt. 
Spread the seasoning thick all over the 
meat. Then roll it up very tightly and tie 
it round with tape. 

Put it into a deep dish with a little wa- 



ter, and bake it two hours. If eaten hot, 
put an egg and some wine into the {[ravy 
When coU, cut it down into round slices 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two larse cold fowls, either boiled or 

roasted. 
The yolks of nine hard-boiled egrgs. 
Half a pint of sweet oil. 
Half a pint of vinegar. 
A gill of mixed mustard. 
A small tea-spoonful of cavenne pepper* 
A small tea-spoonful of salt. 
Two lara^e heads, or four small ones, of 

fine celery. 

Cut the meat of the fowls from tbe bonesy 
in pieces not exceeding an inch in size. 

Cut the white part of the celery into 
pieces about an inch long. Mix the chick- 
en and celery well together. Cover them 
and set them away. 

With the back of af wooden spoon, mash 
the yolks of eggs till they are a perfectly 
smooth paste. Mix them with the oil, 
vinegar, mustard, cayenne, and salt. Stir 
them for a long time, till they are thor- 
oughly mixed and quite smooth. Tbe long- 
er they are stirred the better. When thia 
dressing is sufficiently mixed, cover it, and 
set it away. 

Five minutes before the salad is Co be 
eaten pour the dressing over the chicken 
and celery, and mix afl well together. If 
the dressing is put on long be^re it is 
wanted, the salad will be tough and hard. 

This salad is very excellent made of cold 
turkey instead of chicken. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take two large boiled lobsters. Extract 
all the meat from the shell, and cut it up 
into very small pieces. 

For lobster salad, you must have lettuce 
instead of celery. Uut up the lettuce as 
small as possible. 

Make a dressing as for a chicken-salad, 
with the yolks of nine hard-boiled egss, 
half a pint of sweet oil, half a pint of vin- 
egar, a gill of mustard^ a tea-spoonful of 
cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix 
all well together with a wooden spoon. 

A few minutes befiare it is to be ^iten, 
pour the dressing over the lobster and let 
tuce, and mix it very well. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Take a quart of fresh mushrooms. Pe^ 
them and cut off the stems. Season them 
with pepper and salt. Put them in a 
sauce-pan or skillet, with a lump of fresh 
butter the size of an egg, and suflScieot 
cream or rich milk to cover them. Put on 
the lid of the pan, and stew tbe mnshrofHS^ 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



37 



vboot a quarter of as hour, keeping them 
well coTered or the flavor will evaporate. 

When you take tliem off the fire, have 
ready one or two beaten eggs. Stir the 
eggs gradually into the stew, and send it 
to tame in a covered dish. 

TOMATA KETCHUP. 

Slice the tomatas. Put them in layers 
into a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle evory 
layer with salt. Let them stand in this 
state lor twelve hours. Then put them 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle, and 
«immer them tiU they are quite soft. Pour 
tliem into a thin linen bag, and squeeze tlie 
juice from them. Season the liquor to 
your taste, with grated horse-radish, a little 
Karl ic, some mace, and a few cloves. Boil 
It well with tliese ingredients — ^and, when 
cold, bottle it for use, 

PEACH CORDIAL. 

Take a peck of cling-stone peaches} 
such as come late in the season, and are 
Tery juicy. Pare them, and cut them from 
the stones. Crack about half the stones 
and save the kernels. Leave the remaind- 
er of the stones whole, and mix them with 
the cut peaches; add also the kernels. 
Put the whole into a wide-mouthed demi- 
john, and pour on them two gallons of 
oouble-rectifiedwhtsky. Add three pounds 
of rock-sugar candy. Cork it tightly, and 
set it away for three months: then bottle 
it, and it will be fit fur use. It will be im- 
proved in cleamet<s by covering the bottom 
of a sieve with blotting-paper (secured with 
pins) and straining the cordial through it. 



RASPBERRY CORDIAL. 

To each quart of raspberries allow a 
pound of loaf-sugar. Mash the raspberries 
and strew the suzar over them, having first 
pounded it slightly, or cracked it with the 
rolling-pin. Let tlie raspberries and sugar 
set till next day, keeping them well cover- 
ed, then put them in a thin linen bag and 
squeeze out the juice with your hands. 
To every pint or juice allow a quart of 
double-rectified whisky. Cork it well, 
and set it away for use. It will be ready 
in a few days. 

Raspberry Vinegar (which, mixed with 
water, is a pleasant and cooling beverage 
in warm weatlier) is made exactly in the 
same manner sis die cordial, only substitut- 
ing the best white vinegar for the whisky. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL^ 

Take the ripest blackberries. Mash 
them, put them in a linen bag and squeeze 
oot the juice. To every auart of juice al- 
low a pound of beaten loahmigar. Pat the 



■agar into a lar^ preeerving-kettle, and 
pour the juice on it. When it is all melted, 
set it on tlie. fire, and boil it to a tliin jelly. 
When cold, to every ^uart of juice allow a 
quart of brandy. Stir them well together, 
and bottlo it for use. It will be rwuly at 
once. 



CHERRY BOUNCE. 

Take a peck of moreUa cherries, and a 
peck of black hearts. Stone the morellas 
and crack the stones. Put all the cherries 
and the cracked stones into a demi-john. 
with three jx>unds of ' loaf'sugar slightly 
pounded or beaten* Pour in two gallons 
of double-rectified whisky. Cork the de- 
mi-john, and in six months tlie chern*- 
bounce will be fit to pour off and bottle for 
use ; but the older it is, the better. 



GINGER BEER^ 

Put into a kettle, two ounces of powder- 
ed ginger, (or more if it is not very strong,) 
half an ounce of cream of tartar, two large 
lemons cut in slices, two pounds of broken 
loaf-sugar, and one gallon of soft water 
Simmer them over a slow fire for half an 
hour. When the liquor is nearly cold, stir 
into it a large table-spoonful of the best 
yeast. After it has fermented, bottle it for 
use. 



YEAST. 

Have ready two quarts of boiling water; 
put into it a large handful of hops, and let 
them boil twenty minutes. Sift into a pan 
a pouud and a half of flour. Strain the 
liquor firom the hops, and pour lialf of it 
over the flour. Let Uie other half of the 
liquid stand tiH it is cool, and then pour it 
giadually into the pan of flour, mixing it 
well. Stir into it a large tea-cup full of 
good yeast, (brewer's yeast if you can get 
It.) rut it immediately into bottles, and 
cork it tightly. It will oe fit for use in an 
hour. It will be much improved and keep 
longer, by putting into each bottle a tea- 
spoonfiil of pearl-ash. 



COLOURING FOR ICING, &o. 

To make a red coloring for icing. 
Take twenty grains of cochin«il powder* 
twenty 'grains of cream of tartar, and twen- 
ty grains of powdered alum. Put them 
into a gill of cold soft water and boil ity 
very slowly till reduced to one half.^ Strain 
it through thin muslin, and corkit up for 
use. A very small quanti^ of this mixture 
will color icme of a beautifiii pink. With 
pink icing, white nonpareils snonld be need 



BOOKB PrBLMHKP BY C. B. FRAWCIB, W«W TtiBK. 



KEW AND CHEAP EDITION 

WAVERLEY NOVELS, 

SIR WALTER SCOTT'S 

POETICAL WORKS, 



LIFE. BY LOCKHART. 

\M! puMisAing at ike very Imn pria of^ amti a ueJvnu. 

□n small type, but hnndBume uid 



BOORS PUBUeilBD BY C. 8. FRANCIS, KBW TO] 



LIFE AND WRITINGS 



or 



SIR WALTER SCOTT. 



LIFE. 
You. I to VII, Memoin of the Life of Scott, by J. 6. 



WAVERLfeY NOVELS, &c. 



VOLS. 

1. 2. 
3, 4. 
5. 6. 

7. 8, 
9,10, 



il. 12. 



13. U. 



15, 16, 
17, 18, 
19,20. 
21,22, 
23, 24, 
25, 26, 
27, 28, 
29,30, 
31,32, 



Waverley, 

Guy Mannering, 

The Antiquary, 

Rob Roy, 

Tales of My Landlord, 
First Series : — Black 
Dwarf~-01d Mortality. 

Tales of my Landlord, 
Second Series : The 
Heart of Mid-Lothian, 

Tales of my Landlord, 
Third Series : The 
Bride of Lammermoor 
— ^A Legend of Mon. 
trose, 

Ivanhoe, 

The Monastery, 

The Abbot, 

Kenil worth. 

The Pirate, 

The Fortunes of Ni^el, 

Feveril o'f the Peak, 

Quentin Durward, 

St. Ronan*s Well, 



VOLI. 

33, 34, Redgauntlet, 

35, 36, Tales of the CmBaders : 

The Betrothed— The 

Talisman, 
37, 38, Woodstock, 
39, 40, Chronicles of the Canon. 

ffate. First Series : 

Highland Widow — 

Two Drovers, &c. 
41,42, Chronicles of the Canon. 

gate. Second Series : 

St. Valentine's Day, 
43, 44, Anne of Greierstein, 
45, 46, Count Robert of Paris, 
47, 48, Castle Dangerous, and 

Tales of a Grandfather, 

First Series, 
49, 50, Tales of a Grand&(ber, 

S,eGond Series, 
51, 52, Tales of a Grandfather, 

Third Series, 
53, 54, Tales of a Grand&ther, 

Fourth Series, 



POEMS. 

55, 56, Lay of the Last Minstrel, — Ballads, Songs, &c. 

57, 58, Marmion — Occasional Pieces. 

59, 60, Lady of the Lake — ^Vision of Don Roderick. 

61, 62, Rokeby — Bridal of Tri6rmain. . 

63, 64, Lord of the Isles — Field of Waterloo— Miscellaneous Poems 

65, 66, Harold the Dauntless — Dramatic Pieces. 

Ttifise works, which are handsomely printed on good paper, from lar^ type, 
are published at twenttf-five centa a volume, or, with an engraving, thirty-one 
Genu \ a price within the means of every one desirous of owning the works 
of this celebrated author. Any distinct work of this edition will be «old sepa- 
raiety, and may be had at any time, at the option of the purchaser. Cumpteta 
seta Buy also be had in uniform and bandsume binding of various styles. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY C. 8. FRANCIS, NEW YOKK . 

MEDICAL. 



In one thick vo/., 8v0, theep : toith plain, 

THE PRINCIPLES OF MIDWIFERY 

UfCLUSINO THB 

DISEASES OP WOMEN AND CHILDREN. 

ET JOHN BURNS, M. D., ETC.. 
RerlNd aod enlaiied, with Improvements aiid notes, by T. C. James, M J) 

 In one thick portable volume. 

A MANUAL OF SURGERY, 

POnifDSD UPOH THB PRIMCIPLK8 ANI) PEACTICB LATBLT TAUGHT IT 

SIR ASTLEY COOPER AND J. H. GREEN, F. R. S., ETC, 

BDITBD BT THOMAS CASTLB^ F. L. S. 

In one vehume^ 18in«.; ekMf. 

A PRACTICAL FORMULARY 

OF THE PARISIAN HOSPITALS. 

Exhibiting the Prescriptions employed in the establishments of that ei^ 
with remaru upon the modes of administration, &.c. ; 
also, notices of each hospital. 

By F. S. RATIER, M.D., Etc. 
In OM vWitme, \%mo. 

A MANUAL OF THERAPEUTICS. 

BY L. MARTINET, D.M.P. 

TBANSLATED WITH ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS, 
BY ROBERT NORTON, M. D. 

One folio volitme ; paper. 

ILLUSTRATIONS of SURGICAL ANATOMY, 

TWELVE PLATES, PLAIN OR COLORED, 
WITH DESCRIPTIONS. 



One volunUjlSmo.f vith colored plates 
OBSERVATIONS ON 

STRABISMUS OR SQUINTING. 

WITH AM ACCOUKT OP A NIW OPBRATION POR THB 

CURE OP STAMMERING. 

BT ALFRED C. P«ST, M.D., ETC. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BT C. 8. FRAJTCISy NBW YORK. 



In on0 vo/kmm, ISmm., cloth 

A NEW HOME— WHCIX FOLLOW ? 

OE 

GLIMPSES OF WESTERN LIFE, 

BY KR8. KASY CLAVERS, AN ACTUAL SETTLER. 

THIRD BDITIOM. 



In two ftolumety ISmo., with tngramngt^ doth., 

AROUND THE WORLD : 

A NARRATIVE OF A VOYAGE IN THE EAST 
INDIA SQUADRON, UNDER COMMODORE GEORGE C. READ. 

BT AN OFFICER IN TBB U. S. NATT. 



In two veln'm9$ 12iim., doth* 

ZENOBIA: 

OR 

THE FALL OF PALMYRA. 

▲ HUrrORICAL ROMANCE ; IN LETTBRS FROM LUCIUS M. PI0O ff«OH 
PALMYRA TO HIS FRIEND MARCUS OURTAJS AT ROMS. 



A Sequel to the aAc««, ft vole. ^ cloth, 

PROBUS, OR ROME IN THE THIRD CENTURY, 

Of LETTERS FROM LUCIUS M. FISO FROM ROME, TO FAUSTA THB 
DAUGHTER OF GRACCHUS, AT PALMYRA. 

JVvm the Jforth American Reviewyfor October^ 1838L 

** The Letters from Palmyra, or Zenobia, is one of the most brilliant addi- 
tions to American Literature. To have fallen on a sufasject of such admirable 
capabilities, and unappropriated by previous seekers after attractive themes for 
works of Action, was a piece of rare good fortune in an are of such literary 
abundance as the present— to have treated it in a manner fUlly equal to its de- 
mands on the imagination, required high powers, peraeveriug labor, and the 
keenest perception. All which has been done in this beautiful work." 



In one volume^ l^tmo. 

JOURNAL OF A RECENT VISIT TO THE PRINCIPAL 
VINEYARDS OF SPAIN AND FRANCE. 

onrrao an account of the methods pursued in the cultitatiom 
or the VINE, the manufacture of wine, etc., sto. 

BY JAMES BUSBY, ESa 



BOOKS PtBUSHSD BY C. 8. FRANCIS, NEW ¥OBJC« 



FOB YOUNG PERSONS. 



In eight volumetf illustrated by more than 1,000 engrannngg. 
Each vohMu sold separately. 

PARLEY'S MAGAZINE. 

OF INSTRUCTION AND ENTERTAINMENT FOR 

THE YOUNG. 



In one vohmt, 18 mo., Hbtstrated by ingratfings, Cloth gUt, 

THE YOUNG MAN'S 

EVENING BOOK 
OF USEFUL AND ENTERTAINING READING, 

CONTAINING BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES ; PERSONAL ADVENTURKB ; 

8UTCHB8 IN NATURAL HISTORY ; POETRY ; INl'ERESTINO ANECDOTES ; 

POPULAR SCIENCE ; INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL, 4bC. 



In en* large square vohme, Uhtstrated ky upwards of 
One hundred engravings. 

THE HISTORY OF 
SANPFORD AND MERTON; 

BY THOMAS DAY. 

A NCW EDITION. 



In press. 
THE ADVENTURES OF 

QUINTIN HAREWOOD 

AND HIS BBOTHBR BRIAN 
BY PAUL PRESTON. 

In on* voUme, ISmo., illustrated by 50 engravings. Cloth giU. 

THE WINTER EVENING BOOK 

OP AMUSING AND USEFUL READING ; 

CONTAmmO PERSONAL NABBATiVE *, INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL ; 
POPULAR INFORMATION IN SCIENCE; POETICAL SELEC- 
TIONS ; AND OTHER SUBJECTS SUITED TO INTEREST 
AND IMPROVE THE MIND. 



BOOKS PtJtiLISASD fiV C. 6. FSANCIS, NBW YOBKa 



FOR YOUNG FBRSOirS. 



In one volume ISmo., WlfA engravwge. 

TRUE STORIES 
FROM ANCIENT HISTORY. 

OBRONOLOOICALLT ARKANGBD niOM THE CREATION OF THE WOELD TO 

THE DEATH OF CHARLEMAGNE. 

BY A MOTHER. 



In Prett, 

TRUE STORIES 
FROM MODERN HISTO>RY. 

BY THE SAXB AUTHOR. 
In one volume tguare. 

THE FAIRY GIFT; 
A CHOICE COLLECTION OF FAIRY TALES. 

itiUJSTRATED BT UPWARDS OF TWO HUNDRED BNGRATINOS, FROM 
DESIGNS BY THE HOST CELEBRATED FRENCH ARTISTS. 



Match to the above 

THE FAIRY -GEM. 

A NEW COLLECTION OF FAIRY TALES. 
WITH 180 ENGRAVINGS. 

In one volume IBmo., with numeroue engraving*. 

THE PARLOR BOOK 

OF 

INTERESTING AND INSTRUCTIVE READING ; 

CONTAINING SKETCHES IN NATUI^AL HISTORT ; PERSONAL ADVENTURES^ 
SCENES OF FOREIGN TRAVEL ; BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES, ETC. 



In one ^square votunut 150 engravinge. 

DRAWING FOR YOUNG CHILDREN* 

A COLLECTION OF PROGRESSIVE DRAWING COPIES, WITH 
. DIRECTIONS AND A SHORT TREATISE. 



r 



MONS. BUG.ARD'S 

FRENCH PRACTICAL TEACHER. 



Mons. B. F. BuGARD, author of the " French Practical 
Translator," after devoting several years of intense study 
and labour, has produced a new French Grammar, which 
we think will tendr more than any other in present use, to 
induct pupils into the knowledge and structure of the French 
Language. 

From a practical examination of this new work, and an 
acquaintance with the author's talents and exjperience in 
teaching, we can confidently recommend " The French 
Practical Teacher" to all those who wish to acquire the 
language, either with or without an instructor, as one of the 
best manuals for the purpose ever written. 



RECOMMEITDATZOKS- 

* F&SNCH Practical Tbachxb. — Mom. B. F. Bvgabio, author of the ** French 
Practical Translator," a work of distinguished merit, has just given to the public 
* A complete Grammar of the French Language, on the progressioe principle : com 
prising two hundred and forty-four exercises, mostly written in the style of conver- 
sation ;* to which is added a comprehensive vocabulary of the words of the ex-* 
ercises. 

* The plan of the work is ingenious and new. It differs from all grammars hith- 
erto published, especially in the order of the rules and composition of the exercises, 
in which not any part of speech is employed until its use has been fully stated 
and illustrated. One of the peculiarities of the work, and one of its excellences 
too, is, that the rulea are all numbered, and the words of the exercises have over 
them corresponding numbers, or the numbers of the rules to be referred to for their 
translation. This arrangement not only affords the student a sure and easy guide, 
but it obviates the necessity of directly committing the rules to memory ; and thus 
relieves him from a burden of no inconsiderable magnitude, the dread of encounter 
ing which has discouraged thousands from attempting the acquisition of this elegant 
and fluthionable language. In his progress through the exercises, he is so frequently 
under the necessity of referring to the rules, that he necessarily und praeticaUy teams 
and retains them, without extra or unpleasant effort. To attain this object, the au- 
thor was obliged to adopt a new classification of certain words, such as num, ma, me», 
ton^ &C. which in most grammari are called adjective pronouns, but which he has 
classed among the articles. We have not room to state the reasons which are urged 
in justification of this chuige. To our own mind they are entirely satisftctory, and 
we beliavtf will be generally so rteeivsd. It has heed adopted by the author after 
great deliberatioo, and aa the reaull of eight yean' experience in teaching the 

j bagnage.* ^ ^ 



RECOKKSNDATIONS. 



** Wo eonfidently commend the work to the attention of teachen and ■tndeoli. 
The adf^tion of it would be of mntnal adrantage, aa botli would be telioTed of 
macfa aonecettory and Texatioof labor. The eonunonity, and eipecially that part 
of it who are engafed in the teachiuf or etody of the language, are much indebted 
to Mou. BuoAao, not only for the preeent excellent w<»k, but for hia * Prmetieal 
Tnauiator,'* indisputably the beet work of ite character ever presented to the Amer- 
ican public." Bmiktr-Hitt Aumra^ and BosUm, JtBrror^ Oct. I83& 



FaaifCH PaACTiOAL TaAOHaB.-~The North American Review for October, 
1838, epeaka of thii work in high termi of recommendation. It will probably soon 
become the clasi-book in all our leminariei where the French Language ia taught. 
The ReTiew sayi : 

" We recommend thia book to the attentioif of all teachera and studenta of the 
French Language. It i> the beat of ita kind that baa ever fallen in our way ; and 
we aheuld tliink it impooaible for any one of tolerable capacity to go through it 
&ithfully, without a Tery competent knowledge of French, llie student ia taken 
through a aeriea of rulea and exerciaea, in which no part of speech ia employed, until 
ita use has been fully atated and illaatrated. The Rules are numbered, and there 
are abundant referencea to them by figures in the Exerciaea. At the end of the 
book ia a Vocabulary of all the words used in the Exerciaea, ao that no other Dio> 
tionary ia wanted in writing them. The whole plan ia carried through with grettt 
care and fidelit* Fahrieando fit f abet ia the autbor'a motto ; and he has produced a 
work calculate!]  we think, to focilitate, in no ordinary degree, the student's labour 
in acquiring the e reach Language.*' JVortA jflmer. Rev. 



" Bdoaro's FacncH Teacher. — Munroe k, Francis, of Boston, have just published 
a work, entitled, * The French Practical Teacher.' There are a number of good 
French Grammars extaut — indeed good booica on almoat every atudy abound among 
ua — but after having carefully examined thia work of Mr. Bogard, we are strongly 
impreaaed in ita fiivor — it appearing to ua decidedly superior to any French Grammar 
we have seen. The plan of it is in a great degree original — and we are induced to 
believe, that it will take the place ofofber Grammars of the French language. With 
this work, anil Mr. Bugard's Practical Translator, a person m&y easily master the 
French language without any other aaaistant."— Jtfcreonti/e Jinima/, Oct. 17, 1838. 



From Prqfiseor Eltoh, PravideneA, R, L 
DsAE Sir, Brown University, Nov. 8th, 1838. 

I have examined with much pleasure your ** Frxroh Pbacticax, Tx4chbr,'* and 
eonaider it aa decidedly superiw to the French Grammars generally used. It ia ex- 
ecuted throughout with judgment and ability j the arrangement is lucid and philo- 
sophical, the rules are developed with perspicuity, and the exerciaea are highly ap* 
propriate and admirably adapted to the practical purpoaes of instruction. I tmat 
the work will meet with a favorable reception firom the publie. 

Very reapectfolly, youis, ROMEO ELTON. 

Mom. B. F, Bugard. 

P. S. I wiahed to examine your Granmkar fully before I gave a reeommeBdatioa, I 
or I ahoald have written you earlier. R. E. i 



MONS. BUGARD'S 

PRACTICAL TRANSLATOR. 



TO STUDENTS AND TEACHERS OF THE 
FRENCH LANGUAGE. 

French Practical Translator ; or, easy method of learning to translate 
French into English. Containing i. a treatise on French pronuncia- 
tion ; II. the general principles for the yse of the parts of speech, and 
directions for finding them in any dictionary ; iii. a collection of in- 
teresting exercises, the difficulties of which are calculated gradually 
to increase with the knoroledge of students ; iv. a vocabulary of the 
different words used in the exercises. Second Editiofi. 1837. 

This is the title of a book intended to teach how to 
translate French into English, the plan of which is en- 
tirely new, and calculated to prqmote the improvement 
of those who use it, more than any that has been ofiered 
to the public. With it students can at first commence 
the translation of the exercises it contains, after having 
merely read the French Grammar, which they practically 
learn in translating, without being obliged to commit it 
tO' memory. 

The rapid sale of its first edition shows evidently that 
the want of such a book must have been felt, and that it 
has proved to be very acceptable, as may be seen from 
the following recommendations, which we respectfully 
present to the public with its second edition. 



imOOlMEllIBnrBATZONS 

OF THE NEW PRACTICAL TRANSLATOR. 

Boston, May 5, 183& 

I have examined the sheets you put into my hands, and am happy to say, that I 
think your work will be found, both by teachers and pupils, a valuable auxiliary 
in the acquisition of the French language. The manner in which you have 
obviated the principal difficulties in the first lessons, and the general plan of the 
work, make it a very useful first book for those who are old enough to study with 
some degree of judgmee^t and discrimination. 

Very respectfully, yours, T. B. HATWAKD. 

JfoM. Bugard, 



RECOMMENDATIONS. 



Temple-plooe, May 6, 1835. 
Dbab Sir, 

I luLTe ezaminad the iheeti of the New Praetieal Tnntlator, and believe dwt 
the work will be Tory uaefiil aa an introdactton to the translating Freneh into 
English, ae it affords an easy explanation of most' of the difficulties that are apt to 
embarrass beginners. 

Toon, respectfhlly, GEO. B. EBIERSON. 

Boston, May 8th, I83S. 
DsAR Sia, 

I have long felt the want of a ** First Book*' for beginners in the Freneh Lan- 
guage, upon the progressire principles which you hare adopted, and shall show 
how sincere I am in this recommendation of jour undertaking, by the immediate 
introduction of the ** New Practical Translator** into my school. 

Bespectfiilly yours, GEORGE FOWLE, 

Teacher of the Boys' Monitorial SchooL 



Boston, May 8th, 1835. 
Sir, 

I haTc looked over the sheets of your '* New Practl'jal Translator,*' and am 

much pleased both with the plan of the work, and with the style of its execution. 

ft must form a vahiable accession to the means already within the reach of the 

young for acquiring a knowled«^e of the French Language ; and, if it finds with 

the public that measure of favour which it merits, I am satisfied tint you will 

have no cause to complain that your labours, in this department of instmetioD, 

have not been W9ll received or well rewarded. 

Very respectfully, yrs. JOHN FIERFONT. 

JtfiMU. Bugard. 



Boston, May 11, 1835. 
Dbar Sir, 

I haTe examined attentively the plan of your <* New Practical TranslatiMr,'' and, 
to some extent, the mode in which the plan has been executed. The work appean 
to me to be well adapted to promote the improvement of those who are commeno- 
ing the study of the French Language. The real difficulties, in the progreas ot 
the student, he is furnished with the means of overcoming, while such as will 
yield to modsrate industry, he is judiciously left to surmount by his own efforts. 
Very respectfully, your friend, E. A. ANDREWS. 

Jfens. B, F. Bugmrd. 

Brown Universitgr, May llth, 1835. 

I have examined, with care, '* The New Practical Translator,*' by Mr. Bugard. 
The plan and execution of the author appear to me judicious, and I am acquainted 
with no elementary work, so well adapted for communicating a knowledge of the 
French language. ' ROMEO ELTON, 

Prof, of the Latin and Greek Languages and Literatore. 






RECOMMENDATIONS. 



May 13th, 183S. 
Dbah Sis, 

I have examined with miifth pleasure the sheets of the French Practical Trane- 
lator, which yon were kind enough to tend me. Ae far ae I am able to jndga, I 
ehonld think it would be found a very use%l tnxiliary to the French inetraeter. I 
conear fully in the opinion of the work, expreeted by Mr. T. B. Hay ward. 

Very respectiblly, your obdt. eenrant, F.. P. LEVEKETT. 

JfMw. B* F. Bngard. 



Mons. B. F. BuoABD, 

8£r — It gives me much pleasure to exprws the high opinion 1 entertain of the 
'* New French'Praetical Translator," as an introduction to the study of the French 
language. The plan of it is very judicious. While tliose difficultiee are removed 
which perplex and discourage young learners, it demands sufficient exercise of the 
pupil's own powers to keep alive the inter«st arising from the consciousness of 
anc^eaafiil effort. 

Very respectfully, yours, JOS. HALE ABBOT. 

Mount Veraoo Street, Oct 90, 183S. 



Mr DB*a Sir, School for Moral Discipline, Oct. 28th, 1835. 

I should bo happy if I could firom my own knowledge give you a recommenda- 
tion of your book, the Practical Translator. But, ffrom my own little knowieiige 
and from the moat thorough information I can obtain, f am satisfied that we have 
no so valuable book of Its kind for the study of the French language, and have 
therefore introduced it into my school. 

I am, dear sir, very respectfiilly, your fViend, £. M. P. WELLS. 

Mont, B. F, Bugard. 



Daxa Sib, Jamaica Plain, Nov. Slat, 1835. 

1 have examined with much pleasure the new French Practical Translator, 
which yon were so kind as to send me. I consider it a very valuable book for be- 
ginners, as it removes many difficulties, which have heretofore emKarrassed them. 

I shall immediately introduce it into my school. 

Very respectfully yours, STEPHEN M. WELD. 

JIfent. B. F. Bugard. 



Salem Classical School. 
Mons. B. F. BuoAFD, Salem, Dec. 5th, 1835. 

Dear Sir,—- It gives me great pleasure to add my testimonial in favour of your 
** New Practical Translator," to the many you have already received. I have 
jised the work with a great many pupils in this institution, and find it a verj ex- 
cellent and 'oteresting manual. It is of great service in removing the diflScuItiea 
which beginners encounter at the commencement of their French Studies. I wish 
you much success in introducing it into our Schools and Academies. 

Truly yr. friend, H. K. OLIVER. 



RECOMMENDATIONS. 



Fiom the Profenor of l^anguafM at Washington College, ConneetievU 

Dbab Bib, WAiHiitoToii Collbob, Hartford, Dec 31, 

lam DOtmfleienUy aeqnainted with French to apeak with mach eonfidenea, bnt 
■o &r aa I can jadfe, The New Practical Tranalator is a work conceiTed, aa to ila 
plan, with great ingennitjr and judgement, and executed with ability and scholaialiip. 
— I put it in the hands of the Ber. Dr. S. F. JanriB,an accomplished scholar in 
the modem languages and Professor of Oriental Literature in our College. H« 
speaks of it with decided approbation. 
I am, dear sir, very truly. 

Tour firieod and obedient servant, 

WM. M. HOLLAND. 



Boston, January 2d, 1837. 

It is with great pleasure that T express the high opinion I entertain of the 
French Practical Translator, of Mom. B. F. Bugard. Since I have taoght the 
French language, which b fifteen years, I can say that I never found a book so well 
calculated to promote the improvement of students. The plan of it is new and 
very judicious, since it presents the diSiculties of translation in a gradual order^ 
and teaches how to overcome them by the application of the rules of the French 
grammar, to which references are frequently given, thus requiring from the scholar 
that exercise of his powers, without i»hich nothing can be impressed upon the 
mind. The French pieces it contains are not only acceptable, but even very highly 
interesting to young and grown persona of eitlier sex. The advantages it presents 
in all respects, even in that of econbmy, are not to be found in any other work ; 
and in recommending it to schools, academies and colleges, I tlUnk I confer n 
greater fkvour to their pupils and teachers than to its author. 

J. A. PELLETIER, 
Professor of the French Language. 



Cambridge, Harvard University, 16th January, 1837. 
Dba.b Sra, 

I have examined attentively the second edition of the " French Practical Transla- 
tor,** and I have been extremely pleased with the judicious arrangement of the 
work. The admirable plan, too, which you have adopted, — saving the learner, at 
first, much of that time, whirh he ifl generally made to waste in the disagreeable and 
roost uninteresting of all studies — grammar,— must, finally, leave him with a more 
thorough knowledge of French, than is commonly attained in the nsual way. 
The book shows, evidently, to be the result of great labour and long experience in 
teaching ; and it cannot fail, in my opinion, to prove a valuable auxiliary in the 
acquisition of that language. 

Your obedient servant, PfETRO BACHI, 

Instructer in Harvard Univeraitv. 
JMeM. B. F. Bugard. 



WELLS BINDERY, INC. 

SEP 1978 

WALTHAM, MASS. OZIS^ 



