Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




• • • • 



0032779Y 



4t^ 
Ml 



THE WATER CURE. 



I CANNOT now say into how manj Parts I shall 
extend Ihis Work, or indeed how manj it will take to treat the 
subject in all its bearings. However, the next Part will contain 

THE HISTORY, 

or 

A STOMACH. 

With the Treatment of Dyspeptic Complaints, and their 
consequences. 

The Drug Treatment of Diseases. 

The Crisis. — Fevers, Inflammations, and their Treatment. 



THE WATER CURE. 



A PRACTICAL TREATISE 



ON 



THE CURE OF DISEASES 



BY 



WAT E R, 

AIE, EXERCISE, AND DIET: 

BEING A NEW MODE OF 

FOR THE RADICAL CURE 

OF 

DYSPEPTIC, NERVOUS, AND LIVER COMPLAINTS, TIC DOULOUREUX, GOUT AND 
RHEUMATISM, SCROFULA, SYPHILIS, AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES, 
DISEASES PECULIAR TO WOMEN AND CHILDREN, ' 
FEVERS, INFLAMMATIONS, &c. 



BY 



3 5 

JAMES WILSON, 



PHYSICIAN TO HIS 8BRBNB HIOHNBS8 PRINCB NASSAU; 

MBMBBR OF THB ROTAL COLLBOB OF SUROBONS ; 

FBLLOW OF THB ROYAL MBDICO-CHIRUROICAL SOCIBTY, 

BTC. BTC. ETC. 




'* We are unwilling: to belieYe that great effects can proceed from simple caus«^/ /^ '^ 

and so water fell into disuse.** 



LONDON: JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO; 

A. H. BAILY & CO.. CORNHILL. 

1842. 



n'Li 



\ V 



TO 



VINCENT PRIESSNITZ, 



OF GRAEFENBERG, 



THESE PAGES ARE INSCRIBED, 



AS A HUMBLE TRIBUTE 



TO HIS 



GENIUS, PERSEVERANCE, TEMPERANCE, 



AND INDUSTRY. 



PREFACE. 



" We are unwilling to believe that great effects can proceed 
from simple causes — and so water fell into disuse." 



I HAVE chosen this motto, which I made use of 
some years ago ; it is as applicable to the present 
work— indeed more so, than it was to the former 
one. The spirit of this quotation is in truth, the 
great pivot on which the neglect and dislike to 
use or regard water as a remedy turns ; there 
may be some minor ones, but it would be invi- 
dious and unnecessary to enumerate them. 
When I mention anything about water, people 
often say, * * What ! simple water, that we some- 
times drink, and wash our face and hands in, to 
cure disease and stop an inflammation ?" I 



sometimes, for want of something Itetter to say, 
reply, "What! simple steam, that hisses from 
your kettle spout, and rises from your scalding 1 
tea !" To this I add, yet consider for a moment i 
what varied and wonderful effects this " simplg 
steam" is made to produce in the physical world— 1 
on inanimate matter, where all the wondrousl 
moving- phenomena of life are wanting. Yet, iti 
its sphere, what can exceed it in force or sur- 
pass it in power of moving. Acting on com- 
plicated machinery, we see it transporting a man 
i50 miles to dine with a friend, or carrying him 
where he list, against wind and tide — doing the 
work of thousands of men, and advancing the 
" Times" in every sense of the word. And when 
applied to man's local injuries, soothing at once 
the most excruciating pain, and preventing 
locked jaw, and all evil consequences. When 
this element in its condensed state is applied to 
the complicated machinery of the human body, 
its effects are even more varied and beautiful. 

After wandering about for some years in 
search of health, with little hope that I should 



ever l»e of any use to myself or to any one else, 
moralizing my weary way, like another melan- 
choly Jaques, my good fortune presented to my 
observation a book on the cure of diseases by 
water. I need not say that I at once decided on 
going to Graefenberg, where, after a long so- 
journ, and a short stay at several other estab- 
lishments of the same kind, I left all my com- 
plicated ailments. Soon after this, I sat down 
to compose a work on the water cure, which I 
hoped some 100 or 150 medical men whom I 
knew personally, or by reputation, might read 
with some curiosity. 

When I was far advanced in my task, a lady 
gave me a"Court Journal," containing the adver- 
tisement of a popular work in English on the 
same subject. As the author of this was a non- 
professional gentleman of my acquaintance, I 
imagined it could not be of a practical nature, 
however good otherwise, and the idea struck me 
of attempting a popular work too ; forcing it on 
the attention of medicalmen through the public, 
laying aside for a time the work I was engaged 



in, and which I had advertised. This I was the 
more stimulated to do, from the fact that all the 
medical men (and they were many) to whom I 
had spoken since I left Graefenberg, about 
what I had seen, turned a deaf ear to me, some 
laughing outright — others, more polite, smiling^, 
and only laughing in their sleeves. 

Daring the few days I have been in London, 
I have listened, with no little interest, to the va- 
riety of opinions expressed about the curing of 
diseases by water, I must say some were favour- 
able— indeed, more so than I hoped for — admit- 
ting the possibility of such a thing ; others, on 
the other hand, treated it with unmeasured ridi- 
cule. Yet some were a little staggered, when I 
told them that I hah seen children of all ages 
going out and walking about, and that in any- 
thing but tine weather, while labouring under 
scarlet fever, and ulcerated throats — and that 
their "dear mammas" had not the slightest 
idea of any danger, or any anxiety about the re- 
sult ; putting them in their wet sheets and 
baths, and sending them out to play. But this 



was a trifling circumstance. I added, " I have 
seen inflaD^mation of the lungs, where nearly 
the whole substance of the lungs was inflamed, 
as shewn by the stethescope and by every other 
rational means of ascertaining the fact, cured in 
thirty-eight hoars, and the gentleman walking 
about as if nothing had happened. I have seen 
insanity cured in a few months, and madness 
and apoplexy in a few hours. Gout, rheum- 
atism, scrofula, stomach complaints, tic doulou- 
reux, cured by the dozen, and all with ' simple 
u)ateT,' that you ' sometimes drink, and washycmr 
face and hands in !' " 

This winter, at Nice, there were some hundreds 
of deaths from scarlet fever. At one time, I 
was told by a native practitioner, that there 
were twelve and fifteen cases dying per day. 
An English practitioner lost a daughter; she 
was one of those intellectual and highly-talented 
creatures, whose loss casts a shadow over a 
man's hfe for many and many a day. Now, I 
do boldly assert, that I see no necessity for so 
many deaths, or, indeed, anii at all, occurring 



from scarlet fever. As I came through Boa 
logne, I heard that it had been very fatal then 
also. At Antibes, inflammation of the lungd 
was carrying people off, just as the scarlet feva 
was doing, a little further on the coast, 
have said that many doctors have laughed am 
smiled, when I related the results I had wiW 
nessed from the use of water as a remedyJ 
I too could laugh again, were the subject nod 
one of too melancholy a nature : such laughtei 
would now be more meet for demoniacal dei 
sion than for one whose object is to stimulat! 

INQUIRY, and GIVE INDUCEMENTS TO INVESTIGd'^ 

TioN. I would ask any one what my feelingi 
must be, who have been accustomed for so lorij 
a time to see hundreds living without drujr* c 
stimulating drinks of any kind, people who hai 
lived so for years, and who, moreover, saw noi 
probability of their ever again being induced ta 
take either the one or the other. Must not myl 
thoughts, then, partake something of amaze- 
ment and deep regret, to see an enlightened^ 
people, " drugging away," and drinking all-l 



kinds of stimulating compounds, as if life and 
health depended upon it. 

Supposing, for the sake of argument, that 
drugs and stimulants may sometimes he of ser- 
vice, still I will assert that this is so rarely the 
case, and the good done so little, compared to 
the immense amount of mischief they entail, 
that I am justified in what I say of them. My 
opinion must he clear enough in this little intro- 
ductory work, which, I may observe, is nothing 
more than a few bars of the overture — a hasty 
and unfinished rehearsal. I know also that what 
I have said about drugs and stimulants, is the 
opinion of a great number of medical men, greatly 
my superiors in every way ; still there is Uttle, 
comparatively, done in the way of amelioration. 
Men will not speak out, because it entails abuse, 
misrepresentation, and avariety of disagreeables, 
which most men naturally shrink from ; and 
there may he some who feel more or less with 
the philanthropic French king, who said, " These 
matters, however bad, and however destined to 
be destroyed and removed by the progress of 



man's enlightenment, will last my time, and 
serve my purpose. " Apres nous le deluge!" 
Let it not be supposed that I take any credit to 
myself. These are not the "days when men's 
houses are burnt down about their ears for dif- 
ference of opinion, by the exposing of errors, or 
the discovery of some useful thing ; on the con- 
trary, he finds a party, and often a large one. 
There is another secret, too : the temperate 
man, once thoroughly convinced and fully im- 
bued with the knowledge of the powers of his 
sheet anchor, wants no credit or praise, and fears 
no unjust abuse or condemnation. 

Many have said to me, this mode of treatmenr 
is against all experience; and we have been told 
so by medical men of thirty years' experience. 
Experience, when in the right track, and when 
protited by, is a fine thing ; but what is miscalled 
by that name, full often only roots and confirms 
the most absurd and fatal errors. More than 
twelve years ago, in our largest shipping town, 
I heard a practitioner in great practice order a 
strong stimulating liniment to rub the ulcerated 



1 



I throat of a patient in scarlet fever. I toqk the 

I liherty of ohserving, " that having from fifty to 

I sixty patients a day to visit, many of them in 

Bcarlet fever, poor people placed under the most 

unfavourable circumstances, I was yet fortu- 

I mately enabled, by warm fomentations continually 

applied to the throat and abdomen, by giving no 

I medicines, except innocent deceptive ones to please 

L the patient, and abundant drink of toast and 

I water, to avoid losing a single case." I shall 

I never forget the'answer of this " grave seignior." 

[ "With a solemnity that was quite overpowering, 

j he said, " Young sir, I have thirty years' expe- 

I rience ; but I perceive that you have got your 

liiead full of new-fangled notions." It would 

I have been the greatest breach of medical etiquette 

to have said another word— an ungentlemanly 

interference. However, the internal remedies 

given in this case, being quite in keeping Mith 

[the frightful external application, the patient 

I died. On that day, " I had a dream that was 

' not all a dream," that something might yet be 

done to save mankind from the misapplication and 



abtae of drugs, and from the fatal residfis of 

routine '' experience."* 

Apropos to drugg and stimulants— let any one 
ask himself the question, why should there be 
in London such an immense number of qin 
PALACES and druggist's shops? You cannot go 
twenty yards in any street without meeting with 
both. There must be something very wrong 
somewhere — " something rotten in the state of 
Denmark !" 

How often have I observed the ■mdertaker't 
house placed between a gin palace and a drug- 
gist's shop, and heard at the same time the 
Curse and drunken hiccup,' — the undertaker's 
hammer, — and the pestle and mortar of the 
druggist, — blending into strange unison, and 
producing a combined sound, which, when mo- 
dulated and softened down by distance, came on 
the ear like an imearthly wailof " Woe ! woe I" 

Returning home, the other night, by a long 



• •■ * My wife haJ scarlet fever at Nice i 
apd soon recovered ; but slie did not tal 
dicine ; nor had slie or I one moment's 



s badly as any one, 
e one grain of me- 
ippreiieiision. 



walk in this Vast metropolis, I observed a quiet, 
retired looking undertaker's ; a single candle in 
the front shop, dimly lighting a soiitaiy figure 
dressed in rusty black. In liis hand he held a 
small hammer, with which be produced a mono- 
tonous and unceasing rat-tat. He seemed to 
my wandering thoughts, a journeyman of the 
Fates — a poor, half-starved stipendiary, doomed 
to count out the seconds of human existence, 
and prompt the cutting of the fatal thread. 
There he stood ■unmatched, umisert^ed, and par- 
tially thrown into shade, but still steady and 
regular in bis beats on a coffin lid. 

Did you ever bear, while alone at night, the 
tic-tic'tic of what is called the spider death- 
watch, or observe it, while half bidden at tlie 
mouth of its net, watching the passing tiies? — So 
■ seemed to me the position of this solitary figure 
in black, as the crowd of anxious looking men 
and tvomen were hurrying by ; numbers of whom 
suddenly arresting tbeir steps, entered on one 
side into a gin palace — on the otlier, into a 
druggist's shop,^ — both hrilliantly illummated, of 
62 



festive appearance, and inviting aspect'. TTlfeylboWed 
to me, indeed, like gaudi) baits, held out by the 
solitary figure of the hammer and nails, to entice' 
the human (lies into the deadly trap — where 
" Funerals are Performed!" '* 

In all my remarks, I refer in no way tti' J 
persons; it is the unfortunate system that I^ 
deprecate with all my humble powers. In my 
small acquaintance, there are numbers of me- 
dical men for whom I feel the most profound 
esteem, and others that have not long been dead 
that I almost venerate. I repeat, it is the system 
which leads men to do that which they do not 
like, and which in their hearts they also depre- 
cate. Men are the sport of circumstances — 
chameleons, that more or less take the colouring- 
and impress of what surrounds them. Remove 
temptation and evil example. This is the alpha 
and omega — the beginning and the end. Give 
men motives to be what they ought, and you 
will find them what you wish, for "How oft 
the sight of means to do ill-deeds makes deeds 
ill done !" 



I have pointed out with candour some of what 
I consider faults in Vincent Priessnitz, but were 
I even to enumerate all that might be found, 
they would still lie but as spots on the large disk 
of the good he has been doing for more than 
twenty years, and of that which he has done 
through the instrumentality of others. 

It will be perceived, that 1 have taken up and 
introduced, as intimately connected with the 
water cure, the all-important and prolitic theme 
of rational temperance, and that, without much 
care about time or place (it never can be mis- 
placed) ; and as I am never tired of " still harp- 
ing on my daughter," I hope the courteous 
reader will excuse me the following remarks. 
It will be found, that there is hardly a person 
you meet with who has not some acquaintance, 
friend, or relation, who has not died suddenly 
of APOPLEXY. Now, in this perilous state of 
matters, if I were an alderman or lord mayor, of 
true conservative principles, the first thing I 
should feel myself bound to do to preserve my 
consistency, would be, to pay the Duke of Wel- 
lington a visit, and entreat his Grace to tell roe 



how ami by what wondrous secret he extend 
his conservative principles to his own const UatioH fm 
How, after his eventful Ufe, with all its vicissi* 1 
tudes, he has seen so many of his brave com- 
panions depart, and himself remain still in his 
place, and likely to continue so for a long time 
to come. The imminent danger of cerebral per- 
plexity, or apoplexy, which many of the habitues 
of the lord mayor's too hospitable board are in, 
would render this a conservative secret worth 
knowing, and it might with liberality be published 
for the beneiit of the many. I often imagine 
how low-spirited his Grace must be, how melan- 
choly he must feel every six or seven years or so, 
when, dining with the lord mayor, he sees a 
new set effaces ; and when he naturally inquires. 
Where are they ? My old friends who ' ' Did the 
good things here such justice?" he Is not answered 
by echo — " Where are they ?" but by fac-similes 
of his missing friends, who reply, "Thanks, 
your Grace, the absent have resigned their seats 
in our favour j but they are still at another 
feast, ' Dot where they eat, but where they are 
eaten.' " 



I can tell them this fact without their inquiring 
of the noble Duke : after his feast, there is 
neither black draught nor blue pill, neither 
antAciDS nor bitfers of any description. How 
hiB Grace manages I leave ray feasting friends to 
imagine. By-the-hye, hia Grace might also be 
asked how he makes speeches without destroyiog 
his stomach and brain, or shortening hia days, 
as has been too often the case with so many of 
his great friends and predecessors. Perhaps he 
might make the following reply: — " K a man 
cannot make a speech without putting his brain 
and stomach on fire with brandy or wine, he 
had much better hold his peace, for ' he pmjs too 
dear for the whistle.' " 

There is a great outcry, now that little else 
can be said, that in the water cure there is nothing 
new. Now, supposing it to be so, I would ask, 
what does it signify whether it is new or old, 
provided it be good — -where it had been buried, 
or how many knew where it was hidden ? Priess- 
nitz, digging away in the vineyard, has been the 
tinder of this imperfectly known "goddess of 



health," — and in a terribly mutilated state ht 
found her ; hut he has polished up the treasure, 
given it a new face, and added a leg and an arm, 
with an artistical excellence worthy of a Michael 
Angelo. Tut ! tut ! — what does it signify to the 
sick man whether it was a peasant or a fellow of 
some college that found or contrived what ia to 
make him well again ? Marble had been chiselled 
into a variety of forms, not without excellence, 
before the Venus and Apollo made their appear- 
ance ; and, combined with other matters, had 
assumed a variety of shapes in useful and beau- 
tiful buildings before, by man's imagination and 
rx)nstructiveneas, the great temples of Rome and 
Milan arose to astonish the eye of the gazej 
How many of the thousands who have stood i 
admiration beholding them, ever ask, " Who die 
it ?" For my part, I should have liked the wate 
cure just as well, — it would have taken pow 
session of my mind and future existence just j 
much, bad it been the contrivance of a Londo^ 
physician or a country apothecary. " Well, baa 
there is nothing new, — we knew it all long ago )'m 



Cf course, there is nothing new in sweating in a 

blanket, or lying in a wet sheet for an hour, 

followed by a cold bath, with half a dozen or 

a dozen tumblers of cold water taken during a 

walk before breakfast. Of course, there is nothing 

new in curing inflamnaation of the lungs, 

' apoplexy, an attack of gout, &c. &c., with cold 

water, and that in a space of time that would be 

occupied by half a dozen learned doctors to hold 

a consultation or two on " ways and means.'" Of 

. course, all this, and much more, was known to all 

the doctors of all the colleges, of every shade 

I and complex ion, ^even to all the members of the 

i most worBhii)fuI company of apothecaries — except 

I myself, who am an unworthy member. 

I am grieved in remarking, that giving offence 
to some parties in making known any novelty or 
improvement cannot be avoided, — it is the fate 
attending the progress of things ; it has always 
been so, and is likely to continue for some time 
to come ; for instance, the railroad people offend 
the stage-coach proprietors and their drivers ; and 
any one introducing a railroad to health must 



offend more or less some of the unthinking ptiil 
sans of the old slow coach method. 

1 think, notwithstanding, that, without being 
too sanguine, I may hope, before 1 die, to hear. 
the wholesale druggists declare that " timea*'^ 
had," and cry with wonder that " waters is : 
and drugs is fell ;"* that young dentists before 
they get old will he surprised to find that there 
is not so much tooth-ache, and that whole sets 
are not destroyed at a sitting by mercury and 
calomel, as in the " good old times." There can 
be no doubt that some medical men of all deno- 
minations will say most heartily — "Confound 
the water doctors !" and even that the old sick- 
room nurses will be angry, and lament that their 
" occupation's gone." As this state of matters 
cannot he avoided, we must console ourselves as 
best we may, and heal all their scratches with 
water. 

Should it be thought that I have not been 
^saffidently mild in some of my observations, I 



" Aud I anticipate that by-and-byc \¥e may hope that the 
tempters to evil and the venders of evil aptritt will join in a 
littlilar chorus. 



J 



would refer to the extract I have made from 
the last lectures of Sir Astley Cooper, the re- 
verberations of whose sledge hammer, against 
wholesale consuynption making and destruction of 
constitutions, drown in their loud appeal the more 
gentle efforts of my little alarum. But still let 
me hope that by nurture and the stimulus of the 
great objects it advocates it will, increasing from 
day to day, at last make itself heard, and awaken 
others with more zeal, power, and influence, to 
join in the rescue. Lest it should be thought 
that I had dipped my pen in gall or bitterness, I 
have kept hack some sixty pages written for the 
present volume ; they were melancholy truths, 
which I since feared, by exciting opposition and 
the evil passions, would have retarded rather 
than advanced the object I have in view — the 
inducing medical men to take up and investigate 
the water cure. And should it moreover be 
discovered that there is anything in this work 
militating against any party or body of men, I 
have only to say, with my friend Dr. J. John- 
son, that I am too independent to be influenced 
by any unfortunate interests or prej udices on this 



or the other side of the water — Salus popultm 
suprcma lex. 

I have read Mr. Clandge's work on the " Col^ 
Wnter Cure," and I think I ought to notice i,t. 
As a non -professional man, it does him inlipite 
credit ; he has collected a considerable body of 
evidence from the works of professional as welj I 
as non-professional men, and it will always bej 
read with interest by the advocates of thisl 
system. Such men as Mr. Claridge ought not, 
to be abused, for he could have had no pockt^ 
motive in its production ; all that can be said ia^ 
that he is a little enthusiastic in these matters — 
a little enthusiasm does a great deal of good 
sometimes, when the motives are such as Mr. 
Claridge's. For myself it may be said, that I am 
going to pocket a great many fees, — no doubt ! 
and a great many more than I can possibly want 
for me or mine. Let other medical men follow 
my example, and I shall be delighted " to go 
shares" with them. 

I am happy to learn that a clergyman of one i 
of the largest congregations in London — a gen- 
tleman, I understand, of considerable talentsj 



PREFACE. XXVii 



\- '. 



and p6wers of observation — has gone to Graefen- 
berg, and is now going through the water cure. 
On his return, no doubt he will let it be known 
what he thinks of it. He said before he went 
that if lie found the fiftieth part confirmed of 
what he read in Mr. Claridge*s work, he should 
still more than congratulate himself on his visit ; 
perhaps he will find something more. Should 
any suppose Mr. Claridge or myself have been 
gilding a little, I can only say it was a work 
of supererogation, like '* gilding refined gold, 
painting the lily, or throwing a perfume o'er the 
violet.^' I am also glad to hear that several 
medical men, and many patients, have gone from 
here to Graefenberg, They, too, will add their 
confirmation. 



18, Sachville'Streety Piccadilly, 1842, 



CONTENTS. 



PAas 

IimroDucTioN 1 

HisTOET OF Vincent Pbiessnitz, his Water Cure, and Doings 

at Graefenberg, &c 23 

Watee . 73 

The Sweating Process 80 

The Cold Bath .87 

The Shallow Bath 89 

The Hip or Sitz Bath 90 

The Wet Sheet 93 

The Wet Sheet Bath 100 

The Wet Bandage, or Compress 101 

The Douche 104 

The Foot Bath 107 

The Head Bath 108 

Partial Baths 109 

The Tseatment of Diseases by Watee 110 

DsuG Diseases 123 

Gout 128 

Rheumatic Fevee 137 

Chronic Bheumatism 139 

SCEOFULA 142 



XXX CONTENTS, 

PAOX 

Diseases of the Chest — Tubercular Consumption — ^Bron- 
chitis 148 

Asthma 155 

Hooping Cough 156 

Croup 157 

Affections of the Heart 158 

Madness and Insanity 160 

Cases of Madness 160, 163 

Tetanus and Locked Jaw 166 

Htdbophobia 169 



APPENDIX. 
Observations of Professor Pelletan on the Caloric Currents . ,175 



INTRODUCTION. 



"But words are things, and a small drop of ink, 

Falling like dew upon a thought, produces 

That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think : 

'Tis strange, the shortest letter which man uses. 

Instead of speech, may form a lasting link of ages." 

Btbon. 



The salutaiy properties of water as a drink, its un- 
equalled powers as a remedy in diseased states of the 
human body, its success in restoring health where the 
most judicious application of all other approved means 
had failed, is now so universally known, that there is no 
danger of its ever again being neglected, or falling into 
disrepute. So little fear is there of this, that, on the 
contrary, there is every rational ground for predicting 
its becoming from day to day better known and more 
appreciated. Studied by intelligent medical practi- 
tioners, its modes of application and administration 
will be more and more perfected, and the name of 
Priessnitz, through their medium, handed down to the 
latest posterity with honour, and with the benedictions 
of suffering humanity. Before entering on any further 

B 



2 



INTRODUCTION. 



observations, I do notlliiuk I can do better than i 
an extract fiom tbe preface of a popular work on this 
subject, written bj J. Gross, a gentleman of much 
learning, and secretary at tlie court of Vienna: — 

"Whoever you may be, my dear reader, who take 
up this book, whether of much or little learning, a 
drinker of wioe or water, a friend of established things 
or of novelty, partisan of ihe allopathic, or the homcco- 
pathic system of meiUcine, or even a member of the 
profession Jlself, (piKivided that being such, you acknow- 
ledge no interest but that of humanity, of honour, or 
science,) I inlreat you not to throw this work aside with 
indifference, whatever repugnance you may feel to 
grant me an hour of jour lime. It is a hundred to one, 
that when you have done, you will not pronounce absolute 
condemnation; a hundred to one that you will discover 
some trtithn to which you cannot refuse your approba- 
tion, and many novelties, perhaps, which you will con- 
sider worthy of reflection, estimation, and imitation. 
Shoidd il meet with your approbation, cither in part or 
altt^tber, I have, my dear reader, another and a great 
favour to ask ; which is, not lo content yourself \vilh 
reading the hook, and doing it the honour of putting jt 
in a comer of your library, but to have the extreme 
goodness to speak of il to your friends and actpiaintanced 
giving it to them to read, and contribiiling to its pub- 
licity, which is its due, containing, as it does, matter 
in which the whole of humanity is inlerested; referring 
to what is held most sacred, the preservation of human 



J 



Itfhy dnd tHs fnSdl and physical well-being of mdfi. As 
regards myself, I have the confirmed conviction that it 
is oliving to dold* water I am still in existetice, in the en- 
joyment, at this moment, of perfect health, notwithstand- 
ing my frail coiistitution. 

^* During a period of fivd-and-twenty yeal^, I was ex- 
tremely in' and suffering, a martyt without cessatioti to 
nertous sjonptoms, paitis in the head, stomach, and 
lower bowelfe. It was in vain that I sought the advice of 
the most skilful and erudite physicians; I swallowed 
with full confidence all the medicines they prescribed 
for me. My prescriptions, during twenty years, would 
form a tolerably-sized volume, and consumed annually a 
large portioti of my limited income. After so many 
fruitless efforts, I lost all faith in allopathic medicine. 
When I heard of the ingenious system of the great Hah- 
nemann, I had recourse to it with so much the more 
avidity, that this new method, by its infinitely small and 
spiritualized remedies, joined to the regimen as rigid as 
it is rational, appeared to me more conformable to the 
human organization. In truth, my general health be- 
came miich ameliorated, but many of my old and 
habitual complaints remained as inveterate as ever. 
This was the state of things when I heard of the mar- 
vellous dures effected by water, and I was determined 
to put the new system to the test — it succeeded beyond 
my most sanguine expectations. Past my fiftieth year, 
I now enjoy uninterrupted cheerfulness, and all my 
complicated ills have ceased. The effects of water have 

B 2 



Ilundrede are now living, who tell ibe same historv 
as the author I have just quoted. 

When our atlentioii is turned to the structure of the 
skin, nnd the important functions it performs in ihte 
animal economy, much of the wonder and mystery ati- 
tnched to the action of water, whether tt])plied in chronic 
diseases, or in fevers and iji flam mat ions, ceases. I shall 
now give a slight sketch of what has been known, and 
the use that has been made of water, applied as a 
remedy, up to the time when the genius of Priessnitz, 
hy its power of discovery, combination, and application 
converted it into n system, the result of which has 
spread his fame through the whole of Europe. 

I have before me a list of 700 works, from Hippocrates 
to the present day, some of tliera devoted exclusively to 
the remedial properties of water, others treating of it 
only as a part of a general subject. In some of these 
miraculoiLS cures by water are related, effected by 
charlatana and empirics, who, however, "char)neel" the 
water to give it its healing properties ; others only made 
use of certain waters supposed to have peeuliar virtues 
such as that of the Nile, The celebrated Baron LaiTay 
used it with this impression, in the treatment of gun- 
shot wounds and other injuries, during Napoleon's cam- 
paign in E^jpt. He marvelled at the results he ob- 
tained, but the thought never occuiTcd to him to try 
any other river water. About two centuries ago. Baron 



J 



INTBODUCTION. 



Pm^i the first surgeoQ to ihe Hotel Dieu, at PariE, tried 
the effects of water in a variety of surgical cases, and he 
waa so struck, that he believed it was really endowed 
with miraculous powers, and lliereforc improper lor man 
to make use of it; he was induced to try il, in imilatioti 
of a charlatan, who was using it there as a charmed 
remedy. Dr. Macartney, the late professor at Trinity 
College, was a great advocate for the use of water ap- 
plied to wounds, injuries, ulcers, and diseased states of 
Bkin,HS well as for its powers when taken into tlie system, 
a singular instance of which I shall mention presently. 
He conti'ived what he called Lis water-dressing, which 
has been adopted by Listen, of London, and Synies, of 
Edinburgh. Il is curious, that at the same time tttat 
Dr, Macartney prided himself on this, as an original 
and very valuable discovery, a humble ami obscure jiea- 
sant was practising it in the mountains of tiilesk, with 
many novel and important additions. Dr. Macartney 
had a prophetic spirit, with respect to water. I heard 
him say, some sixteen years ago, that "if men knew the 
properties of water, and bow to apply them, so as to 
produce all their effects, water would be worth more 
than all other remedies put together." This, coming 
fixim dne of the first physiologists and accomplished 
teachers of Great Britain or any other coimtry, made 
a deep impression upon rac at the time. He had ano- 
ther mode of applying water, which, though differing in 
some measure from that of PriessnitK, is still used on 
strictly physiological principles, and is, at the same time, 



INTaODUCTJUN. 



a powerful remedy, — it is that of appi; 

in a state uf vapour ; tliis was superadded to Ids watetv 

dreBsiiig. 

I do not thitik it will be misplaced, to give the fuUow- 
I iog ease as au lUustration, extracted Iruiu a work wbicL 
I 1 publiBhed some years ago : — 

" When Elruggliuj5 willi a Newfoundland dt^ Dr. 
Macartney received a severe laceraled and punctured 
Wunnd, iiiflieLed by ibc teeth of the atiimal, which cu- 
tercd the palm of the hand, and on their abrupt with- 
drawal, tore with thcni a portion of the palmar lascia. 
As it may well be imagined, the pain was of a moet 
agonizing description. As soon as jxissible, tbe Doctor 
plunged the baud into warm water, where he rctaiucdit 
uutil a supply of steam could be obtained, when he sub- 
jected it, by means of his simple appajatus, to the t^era- 
tioQ of afjucuua vajwur for many cousecutivc houis. 
Witliiti Italf au hour after liie immersion in steani, the 
pain was completely removed, and tlie learued professor 
was accuytumcd to add, ' I have not bad a soif/le unplea- 
sant sensal'wn produced in the part, from that hour to 
this,' The wound was afterwards Irealcd with his 
waler-dressuig, ' and it healed iu a short time, witbtMit 
any of the plicnomejia of itiflatnmateon, and without any 
eoufinenieut or ineonvenience.' " 

This is the kind of wound that gives locked jaw sa 
often : with this treatment it can never occur. I ^lall 
now mention a case in wbicli l^r. Macartney illustrated 
the efibots of a lai;ge quantity of water taken iut 



J 



IMTBODUCTION. 



It was his porter's child, who was affected with St. 
Vitue's dance, accompanied with iiidammation of the 
elbow and hip joints; she was luade to dtink during 
the day nearly a gallon of water, taken in small quanti- 
ties, and at repeated intervals ; all the syniptonts gra- 
dually subsided, so that the next day her diseased state 
was not to be detected. By giving her aiuinal food and 
3 full diet, all the syuiptonia returned with severity. 
This case was shewn to the numerous students, and the 
same process repeated. The diseased state I have just 
mentioned depending in a great measure upon, or com- 
plicated with, an inflammatlou pervading the uiucous 
membranes of the stomach and alimentary canal, accounts 
for the rapid changes produced by the opposite treat- 
ments. 

When we consider the structure of the skin as the 
external covering of the body, and of its continuation 
internally as the mucous membrane of the slomaeh and 
bowels, or internal sentient surface, and of the important 
functions thoy perform in the animal economy, much of 
the mystery attached to the action of water ceases. The 
whole of the surface of the body may be looked upon as 
a mass of nervous matter, kept tt^ether by otlicr tissues, 
and interwoven with infinite minute blood-vessels, distri- 
buted for their reparation and nourishment ; so that the 
point of a needle cannot enter without wounding a nerve 
or a blood-vessel. The internal suifaec, or mucous 
membrane, is analt^ous in its structure. 

These extensive sur&ces influence the whole mas6 of 



I 



1 



INTllwnCCTION. 



the circulaliag fluids, and ihe tiealtby or diseased state 
of every organ of the body. If llic eflcc-ls of water be 
doubted, sprinkle a litlle water in the face, apply it wiili 
liiicn on au inflamed piniple, or let it fall drop by drop 
on the forehead — the pLcnonicna aiusing from these 
experiments, minute as they are, will explain many of 
the potent results to be obtained by water: the one 
awakcus, the other removes all pain and inflammation ; 
the last reduces the vital powers to the lowest ebb, and 
if continued suffieiently long, kills. Water, taken inter- 
nally, produces many varied and important effects ; but 
liuB is not the place where I can enter into details of its 
physiological action, externally or internally applied. 

Many celebrated medical practitioners have known I 
and tried Uie effects of water in fevers, particularly Dr, , 
Currie, of Liverpool, but their modes of applying ii 
were very imperfect, compared with that of Preissnitzj 
and although Currie obtaiued great success during i 
epidemic and very fatal typhus at Liverpool, it fell inta | 
disuse. 

A number of institutions for the treatment of patients 
on the plan of the "Water Cure," have arisen in dip._ 
terent parts of Europe, the nmnber of thera now ap< 
proaching to neaily a hundred. 80 popular a system 
it was but nattu^l to expect, could not long escape thelH 
hands ui speculators, chariatmis, and impostors. I visited 
several of these institutions, and it was with deep regret 
that I found my fears verified, A gentleman at Nice 
told a patient I was attending there, that he had been 



INTRODUCTION. 



9 



af'6ti^ of thSse tstabliBhmenls, and that he thanked his 
good fortune in liaving escaped with liie lile : but that 
Btnce he left, lie had heard it had been shut up. It is 
thiis that aa excellent Bystem is brought into disttpnte^ 
Many aspiraiita visit Graefenberg for a few days — others 
trust to their fertile imaginations, never having se^n a 
case treated, fix on a locale, and commence the water 
cure. A Russian lady whom I knew and left at Grae- 
fenberg, with her sister and two cliildrcn, " makini/ Ihe 
cure" told nie, that a few mouths before her arrival 
there, she had lost a child by scarlet fever. She had 
read several works ou the water cure, and having many 
friends who had been at Graefenberg, her confidence in 
the effects of water was unlimited; and she therefore 
called in two persons who professed to treat by water. 
One of them she heard afterwards hatl been at Graefen- 
berg only one day, on his return to Moscow, where she 
lived;' the other she discovered had been at no institii- 
titm at all. In a short time she perceived that all was 
not right, and being told to apply a fomentation to the 
ttiroat, she asked if it should be hot or cold ; they hesi- 
tatedi and at last said it did not signify whicli. Know- 
ing better, she lost all confidence in them, changed the 
treatment when too late, called in tivo physicians, and 
lost her child. These villa/ioiis traffickers in httnatt 
sttfferiny, whatever Protean form they take, whose dia- 
bolical oceui)ation, marked by an intrepidity and reck- 
lessness which no feelings of commiseration can mitigate, 
) exposure deter, no human mcrifivea arrest, deserve' 



rt' 



INTRODUCTION. 



and ought tu have the opprohrium and anathema q 
cver^" man who wishcB well to his kind. 

tt may be louked upon as one of the greateat derelic- 
tions of duty on the part of tlie medical hody generally, 
that they have made little elibrt to enlighten mankind' 
by reasonable ai-guments, proving the danger they i 
and the groundless nature of their trust iu bcliering i| 
tbe promises of impostors, ajid in the good cft'ccts of their" 
remedies. What can be a greater proof of it than the 
niiide in which Morrison's pills are taken ? With great. 
foresight of man's weakness, and the prevalent ignoram 
iu these mattci's, they are called vr^etable pills, directii 
attention at once to their supposed umoceiice and j 
plicity. This is a grievous mistake, lor in the vegetabj 
world ai'c contained the most virulent and deadly poiscM 
These pills are composed of pmgutive vegetable drugs}ll 
all of whieh are used in tbe practice of medicine : theji^l 
composition is well known. Home of them are of a UKntP-fl 
virulent and poisonous nature, and used with great care' I 
and discretion by most medical men. Tbe mode of I 
taking these pdls Is of a most frightful nature, Ailet' I 
being taken for a time, the tone and sensibility of tlivfr'l 
extensive surface of tbe stomach and bowels becomes 99 J 
altered &om its natural and healthy slate, that immeiuid j 
numbers may be swallowed without producing their fitnst 1 
action on the secretions. I have seen a great many | 
cases of tbe fatal results of this purgative system. Ai 
first two or three of these pills act ou tbe bowels, and 
i-elieve the patient as well as would be done by most 



IMTKODUCTION. 



11 



o^r drastic purgatives, but this is a false relief; they 
make their ovm work, and must be repeated, still iucreas- 
ing tUe dose, till the nervous syytem and the powers of 
llie digestive organs become irreparably destroyed be- 
yond the power of any humau art to restore. 

An error which has esisted too long is the abuse of 
applying all remedies to the stomach, and thruugli the 
alimentary canal. Nature relieves lierself of refuse 
matter, or superabundance, in something like the follow- 
ing ratio, whicli has been pretty accurately ascerltdned 
by the ex]>erinients of several physiologists: — One of 
them weighed himself, and all that passed from the 
body every day for thirty years, and he found that more 
than half of all he took passed through the skin, many 
times as much by the kidneys ns by the bowels, part 
flying off by the breath. Thus we sec that, in fact, 
there is very little secretion by the alimentary canal, 
even part of what is thrown off being undigested matter 
and refuse, which the apparatus of nutrition had refused 
to iake up. With these glaring facts, it is a matter of 
the greatest surprise that the skin should hitherto have 
been so much neglected, aiid that all the attention 
should have been directed to physicking the wiforluaale 
bowels. The dru^ing system iu Englfuid has arrived 
at such a pitch as to merit the reprobation of every man 
who wishes moll to his profession. Many independent 
meu have already pomtcd out its pernicious conse- 
quences to the pubhe health, as well as its injurious 
results to the professional character. The iujudiciouti 



IB 



aifitem o{ being paid for tirtiga cntaib with Jft I 
picion in tlic paticnl (ntid they do 9iis[wct, aud say it, 
loo,) lliat more is sent and given than reijuired, lower- 
ing the most Lonourablc and useful }troies5iuii to a wily 
iind dingracoful crafi, The professtonal man, aJler j^ean 
of" anxiety, labour and exi>ense, must Itc remuniersted, 
and this cannot be done witliont hiH time, care, uhI 
advice being paid for, or by sending more incdiciiic lltan 
lie knows is necessary. TLe patient ie tbc greatest 
sufferer in every way, paying more tban lie would li^ve 
done in fees, and imbued mure or lees with Lhe faleo 
notion, that so much medicine is required, su that ataau, 
when a more rational syetem is pursued, fancy "there 
is nothing doing," and cry out " there is no medicine la 
go on with." It might be supposed that our medical 
colleges would aid in removing this and many other 
flngraut abuses. But no; from such quarters there can 
be no hope; for as long as their uninflueDced control 
exists, their solicitude for the well-being of the protoft- 
sion will be that of an unjust step-mother to her children. 
The following fact, apropos to colleges, i sliall take the 
liberty of relating; — Two days ago, I saw a hen sui^ 
ronndcd by her numerous chickens; they loved bee aSi 
their mother, getting under her sheltering wingB, and 
happy in her protection. To-day at noon, the acene. 
was changed — her love was gone ; iiecking the little 
ones, with ruffled wings, she screamed, " My caro and 
cheering heat I'll grant no longer." Entreating siiU 
with artless cry, and Btill refusedj tiu;y lisft uea in a 



INTnODDCTlON. 



)3 



' This eve, I found them huddled close together, 
chuckling with mutual love and warmth, no longer 
wantmg the fostering care denied by the cruel mother.* 
The nninitiated might imagiae that a system so vaiinte<l 
as the " water cure " would find its entrance into, and 
be tried iti, the hospitals, particularly in cases of fevers 
and inflammations ; but they know little of the manage- 
ment of these matters who might think so. On one of 
my visits at Vienna, being in one of the hospitals, I 
in<]uired if this treatment had been tried in any way. 
I was told that cold water had been tised in a case of 
diseased joint, and had failed, and that nothing more 
was thought of it. On further inquiry about the case, 
I found that it was a chronic disease of the knee-joint, 
to which most truly cold water had been applied — the 
very worst thing that could have been done — causing a 
congested state of the vessels, Lenumbing the part, and 
applying cold till It was nearly frozen, and increasing 
the morbid state by the violence of the reaction : this 
was called " trying the water cure." But in the case 
that was described to me, even a rational local treat- 
ment would not in itself have been sufficient without a 
more general application of " the cure." It is thus that 
an admirable system is lefl unappreciated. But in 
Eiif^land, the country of countries, the land of liberty, 
of inlelligonee, of the rapid march of intelloci, '-where 
man is the loi-d of his kind," the same ihin^ would, of 




have not as many lirains as a oliickm." — ^Old Sajing. . 



14 iNTRonTrctioN. 

cortrsc, not talte plnw. I will nof attempt to !«oIv(J thfc 
d'tfficnlly, t>nt submit to the render the following extrtCt 
from Sir Astioy Cooper's last roiireo of lecturea^s 
gcntlcmati wliose authority is of the gteafest ralde, attd 
whose tos9 cannot he too much regretted : — 

'" "lEtft wr//rom Sir Asfiet/ Cooper's /.Azures. 
"til the first place, gentlemen, let me observe to jou, 
that no greater folly, and indeed cruellif, can be com- 
mitted than that of givlug merciu-y to patients for file 
cure of this disease, A man who gives nlercury ifi 
gonorrhffia really deserves to he flogged ovt of the provi- 
sion, because he must be qnite ignorant of the principle 
on which this disease is to be cured. To give merctSTj 
to a young and irritable peifon, who Is probably con- 
stantly exposed to vicissitudes of temperature, for a 
disease which dues not rei/uire it, (thus exposing the 
health, and even Ike life of the patient to danger,') is, in 
the present state of our knowledge, perfectly Unpardon- 
able. /( is lamentable to nflect on the number of lives 
which must hai)e been destroyed hy consumption and other- 
wise, in consequence of the imprudent exbibilioii of 
mercury fur a disease which did not require it, which 
prevailed among the older surgeons. At the present 
lime, liowever, a sm'geon must be either grossly igno- 
rant, or sbamcfiilly negligent of the duly which he owes 
to the character of Iiis profession, and to the common 
dictates of humanity, if he pei-aists in giving mercmy 
_ for this disease. Let those persohs who suppose tliat it 



INTB0DUCTION. 15 

can be cured by mercury, go tound our wftcds^ and see 
whether merciEry has any effect on that disease. Lodc^ 
gentlemen, at a hundred patients in our lock wards, 
many of whom come into the hospital with syphilis and 
gonorrhoea; and many, I am sorry to say, who have 
only gonorrhoea, but who are invariably carried to these 
wards. What is the miserable treatment of these patients ? 
You are aware, gentlemen, that I scarcely ever enter 
the lock wards of the other hospital ; when a particular 
case demands my attention, I have the patient removed 
to a cleaii ward. I will tell you why I do not enter 
these wards, gendemen : I abstain from entering theifl, 
because patients are compelled to undergo so infamous a 
system of treatment^ thAt I cannot bear to witness 
IT. To compel an unforiunaie patient to undergo a course 
of mercury for a disease which does not require it, is a 
proceeding which reflects disgrace and dishonour on the 
character of a medical institution. No consideration 
shall induce me to repress my feelings on this subject ; 
no authority shall restrain me from giving full expres- 
sion to those feelings. As long as I continue a sui^eon 
of Guy's Hospital, I will endeavour to do my duty ; 
but I cafe not if I continue a surgeon of that hospital 
another day. I do say, that the present treatment 
of patients in these hospitals, by puttihg them unne- 
cessarily under a course of mercury for five or six 
weeks, is infamous and disgraceful. The health of 
a patient is, perhaps, irremediably destroyed by this 
treatment; and, after all, not the slightest effect is 



u 



JNTHODUtJTiOS. 



proclticcd by it on the iliFcase. If he is ci^re^ he mp^ 
be curod by olhcr means. If joii go to a patieij^t JD 
these wsrtb at tha end of hi^ course, >ind ask him b<w 
many times be has used luereiiry, he will geocr^lly aa- 
Bwer 'twenty-eight times.' If you a£k whether he is 
salivated, he will tell you that he spits three pints a-dau; 
but ii&k whether hia disease is cured, and lie will reply, 
' No, 1 am as bud as ever.' His complaint is not jp 
the xtightest degree uffccled by the mercurial course, lo 
wliich he has been so unpaidonably subjected. Wfh«i 
so infamous a pmelicc prevails, I cannot satisfy iqj pym 
feelings by i-esortiug to milh and water language.; eveiY 
man of common feeling and honesty is bound to. spe^ 
out on such an occasion. It \& wholly unnccesE^i^ to 
give mercury in any form for this disease." 

Notwithstanding this forcible apjieal of Sir j^slley 
Cooper, which must have been preceded by much per- 
suasion and many entreaties, there was no man ; 
profession more liberal to Lis brethren, or more read^ b 
do them any personal service ; his sole object in i 
above remarks, was the removal of an error and an^l 
portant abuse, and to prevent the destruction of Uuium 
life ; and this reminds me, that as my humble atlemn 
for the same purposes will fall more particularly inU 
the bands of the admirers of the "water-cure," I i 
bound to tell them that great injustice is committed b 
many misinformed advocates of "the cure," by t| 
opprobrious epithets they apply lo our profession i 
rally — mistaking the errors and delin(|uencies of some a| 



INTIIODUCTION. 1( 

icfti of tft6 whole claaR. I would tell such pcrsonsj 

I "ihat iiiiiHinerahle medical men are, and have been, thf 

't>rightc-st ornaments of hiimiin nalurc; devoting theu- 

' lives w tlie cultivation of the Bcionces bearing upon, 

I "Und disinterestedly occupied with but one great aim^ 

j'tbe relief of human sufferings. The annals of medicine 

. 'ire rife with these pliilanihropic benefactors, whose lives 

were passed in study, in attending the sick poor, and in 

I 'tbe disgusting and health -destroying dnliea of the dis- 

, 'becting-room, and whose existence was often sacrificed 

I 'te their nnwearied labours. Often unrewarded were they, 

I Wt still Btedfast in their purpose, though many of their 

ihorc fashionable brethren, the creatures of accident, of 

patronage, or of wealth, without their talents, genius, 

; knowledge, or devotion, poiiHed out a smoother and 

I feaore flowery path. 

Because a better system is discovered, there is no 
I teason why, in many cases, medicines should not still 
IJ^ tiseii, mid used with benefit. All medical men are not 
D '• drug doctors." The knowledge acquired by the 
[ study of anatomy, pliysiology, and pathology, is hidis- 
I jmisahic to the full understanding of the " water cure," 
I and to its practice, without frequent errors. It ia true 
I a has been discovered and brought to extraordinai-y pcr- 
^ction without this knowledge ; but Priessnitz did not 
Kbriug it to its present state without twenty long and 
utient years of practical study of the powers of water, 
■of the vital phenomena, und of those of dis?a>ie, 
Ibowever imperfect his knowledge may be. Uut 



18 



INTBfiDDCTION, 



Prle»sniu is a genius, — an eitlraonliaary 
of those isolated instances wlicli occur so seldom iu the 
history of man. Let iu)t, therefore, other uneducated 
jjcrsons attempt to praetise the water cure, because 
Fiiessnitz has practised it. The power of genius is np 
rule iur ordinary mortals. 

Other non-professional men musi not hope to I 
PricsBuitz, uor professional men themselves hope to lui^ 
devstand "the cure," without making every effort to 
allay thcfurca of habit, AND THE passion of PREPOssGa^ 
siON. One oi' Priessnitz's great pcciiliaritieB is his t 
nhieh is nothing more than his power of putting I 
self in the position of the patient : he takes hia physical 
calibre at once, and anticipates in his imagination what 
tlie iiatient can bear and respond to ; and this, added 
to his extensive knowledge of the powers of water, iett 
him into the secret, in many cases, of the effects he can 
produce. This is a vahiahle attribute, and iudLs^tcnsable 
to a "f/maf' practitioner; though, when unaided by a 
knowledge of every mrehanical and rritional means of 
ascertaining the precise state of all the organs, ii 
must frequently be follBwedby error. This knowledge, 
or perception of the effects that water will produce by 
the response of the animal machine, is su])posed by the 
unenlightened to be a " clairvoyance," a mode that Priess- 
nitz has of peeping into the internal recesses of the 
bosom, and into nil tlie windings of the abdominal 
cavity, lie is supposed to possess this in a Ingh d<^ree ; 
which is, in faot, the case, though it admits of a more 



INTBODUCTION. 19 

rational explanitioti, which, by the way, the devotees of 
the marvellous will not hear of. This familiarity with 
water is absolutely necessary to using it with safety and 
effect,' or appreciating all its powers. To obtain this 
desired end, no better means offer themselves to the 
physiologist, than for him to undergo himself all the 
treatment for a length of time, to which there can be no 
earthly objection, under any circumstance I can imar 
gine ; for, if ailing, it will not be thrown away — if well, 
it will be a salutary and an amusing pastime. 

With all Priessnitz' sagacity, it is a matter of surprise 
that he has fallen into an abuse which interferes greatly 
with his excellent cure. This is allowing vegetable 
and animal matters at his table which are of an indiges- 
tible and pernicious nature, such as pork baked to a 
cinder, sausages, sour krout, salted cucumbers, and 
bad pastry — " let me not think on't,"r— articles of diet 
which, even in health, should be avoided, when any 
food of a more salutary nature can be obtained. What, 
then, must be the effect when the majority of his 
patients have, complicated with other complaints, some 
disease or derangement of the digestive organs. But a 
more flagrant error still, is the quantity which each 
person consumes. There is a kind of furor who shall 
devour most It is true that with the ** water cure" 
every person can eat infinitely more than they could 
under any other circumstances. But this is not enough ; 
indigestion may take place, and excess be committed in 
the water cure as well as elsewhere. Water only coun- 

c 2 



STBOprCWOK. 



teractsih* evil titKts. But Uir point I am convliM^ 
(•I'm, ibal it mb rfiv t t nilli, and rehtrda tht> fmnl tiuiv-ci' 
ibr nujoriir of thp {Htients at Gracfcnbci^. I poMess 
uncUnt illustrMiiUH. Prirssniu is htaiself so strong 
%«k) bcMty lij hw mode of life, (liat he tiots not kuoie Itt 
'hma a itomarK — ibc tniest i^^ign uf a liealthy stale — and 
not ftr^-^ with iiis patients, he fotgcta, or* from some 
m\>tif)c«iion of reasoning!, merlooks tUr &ct, that others 
«rc! not tu this enviable {MKitiun. ur takes an uuphjsio- 
It^iciil vicvr of ihp infiuoncc r>f an over-loadexl Btuinach 
on tlie whi^e IkmIv. on each uf its oi^^aoa, and «d any 
dtsMsr nitfa which it niay be affected. 
' Tlie eclebraiod Abcmeiliy was ilie first in England to 
lay ajcvX sirefs nn this, a»ti Ihiit mnderatiou muei be intro- 
thicni intu llir Koler eurr, lie was a greut advocate of 
teiiii>eraiice, nnd violent ivith tliusc srlio dkl not pr&clifie 
it, ndling iheni to their face the dirtiest names he cuuM 
think of; bnl though nhvays sutfcring with his stomach 
himwlfi he did not, I belirve, adhere to the roles he 
luid down for others. This, no doubt, made him more 
itritahle. lie s.ijs, in his qnaini and rbaraeteristic 
manner, "Oh ! if I conid put all the disorders uf ihe 
digestive oi^tid to rights, I should disoover a better 
tiling than the pliilusophcr's stone." It has sseh 
UISCOVKHBD '. — and in waU-r, and in temfteraiice, we find 
the long-sought secret of beallh, length of daye, and 
innumerable blessings. Water waa jriven to man by a 
■.henoficent Creator as his drink, before his wajwant 
ligenius extracted from the thiits of earth the iiual spirit. 



whicb,) though ^tnakmg'^lad'ihe heatft oC^man^is^iirom 
]ftsindulgetlee>idRdiabiiBev' working upon the ^il {bropeh** 
sitiee'withia'hibiy' converted tohU desti^uctkni^i nuking 
him ■■ suieidioal- ^ of his health and peace> - divertciig i his 
nature £rom the cultivation of Christian virtues^ laund 
drawing him ' fy I often into the depths of poverty and 
depravity^' destroying his reason^ curtailing faiseististeiice, 
and let/telling' him -with the brutes. - = ■ » 

' Y<es^i^»MPBaAKCB--^afe-guard of heakfiy peace- and 
fconfeilt— -and' AeaftA, thy first-'-bornv ' offspring k^f'thy 
adoption-^what do we not owe thee^ and 'how shall we 
value thee most; preserving the harmonious play- of all 
tbe -vi^ondrous inetruments of the human bbdyy^tfegu- 
lating and attuning the mind to the divinest dspiraUons ! 
Thy cupi overflowing with innumerable blctesings^v is 
pdured out fw all who will receive thy gifts ;^ making 
lidan in concord with himself, and in harmony* with his 
fellow man. ; .1 

^^O ble^ed health ! thou art s^ove all gold atld trea- 
sure ! "'TIS thou who enlargest the soul, and openest'all 
its -powers to* receive instruction and tO' relish virtue* 
He that ^ has thee hais little more to wish for; and he 
that is so wretched as to want thee, wants everything 
with thee." ? • 

In advocating temperance as part of the cure of 
diseases by water, and as a means of preserving healthy 
and isupersedir^ the necessity of any curc^as the* sure 
mode of avoiding pain> and gaining tiine to execute 
any pljto of life — let it not be supplied that Iwoold 



INTRODITCTKW. 

refer only to tK« baneful eOects ui tbc maddening alcohol, 
or ibe bewltiny 6vcr. Far, far from ihis. To rcalizie all 
its ccrmin and imaginubk- n:BulU), il should embrace 
the whole ccoiioiuy of every sublunary possession — even 
to ibe most exalted ultributes ol' man. From his inhe- 
rent (jualities, ileBtincd to progress, thia perfection of 
his ciirthly cjcistenec cau be obtiuned, and it will come. 
On Us advuut, misery, guilt, and disease will leave the 
earth. The demons of envy, liutrcd, and malice, tin- 
diarituiU'Hesif comtdimf the heart, silly pride, and vain 
glory, and their offspring, lust of gain, will fly the 
breast of man. BleH with tthiimlance awi afruyal hoard ; 
passing bis lime in useful and health- bestowing labours, 
in the luxurious enjoyment of benevolent feelings, un- 
changed and UQcheeked by moral or physical pain ; 
contemplating, with an understanding mind, the won- 
drous works of animate and inanimate nature, he will 
ripen the fruits of the heavenly mission to earth, and 
realize tbc moal enclianting dreams of the pbilanthropist. 
Oh ! the MiOHTY Powkh of a temperate people, IHte 
Albion's guardian angel, raiding its celestial bead and 
taking wing on its snowy pinions, blunting tJie bonds 
of custom and casting away the shackles of pryntUrx. 
On I on ! to distant time — at every flight in its 
heavenly career, approaching nearer, nearer still to per- 
fect good. Still on! on I lUl all mankind, with one 
voice of love, one embrace of miiversal brotherhood, lift 
up their hands lo heaven with thanks and praise. 



HISTORY 



OF 



VINCENT PRIESSNITZ, 



fflS WATER CXJRE, 



AND DOINGS AT QBAEFENBEBG, ETC. 



I I 



Morgens hi die Kalte "Wanne spriflgen, 
Wenn es regnet zu den Douchen klimmen, 
In der Kotze schwitzen, in dem Wasser sitzen, 
Nasse Tucher tragen, Kopf- und Fussbad haben, 
Daza Krisen, Drusen and Gesckwuren— 
Welche Lust and welche Pein, 
Auf dem Graefenberg zu seyn ! 

VmcBNT PRiE8SNiTZy the peasant of Graefenberg, who 
has gained for himself an European celebrity by his 
genius and indefatigable industry, by making the most 
valuable diseoveries, and working out their benefit^ 
was bom in a little wooden cottage, where his father 
lived, the cultivator of a few acres of ground* Till his 
eighteenth year he worked at the plough with naked 
feet, but even at this early date he lived with temperance^ 
which was not the general character of his countrymen^ 
He thus made firm the foundation of a good constitn- 



lUBTOUy OF rUIBSSMTZ, 



liony wliiuh lias tnHbled liim since, still ubcyiiig the laM> 
tales of prmieiicp, to give auliitton to Lis probleni, to 
make hiH iiiccesHiit lubours a picnsurc, nnd tbe opposi- 
tion be lias mtt with a atimiiluM to cKCitidti. 

About thiH tiiiic> a wandcritig lIiingaritiD, rcDenible 
witii age, paid the district frcqtieiii visits curing' <| 
lower animals with secret remedies, and the externalli 
Junes uf man with water, cliarminy the cnrMal fluid wht 
inQgic fipell. Tho father ut' Vincent " lored this man, 
trft invited hiin," and kuuwiiig die gentus of his & 
treated this ancient friend to make his boy the partlfl 
of his nkill. 'Twas done I and Vincent Priessnitx^ 'I 
epircd with distant views, deterinined, from that c 
prove llijkl water was a €jiftfrmi htnmiil a panacea <ii 
iMiMtn ills/ Progressing in meditation and in know 
leilge, to try his faith, a waggon passing over bi« body, 
broke his ribs, and j»ut his life in danger. Several doc- 
tors from tho neighbouring town, running post luietc lo 
the injured youth, declared his case was hDjicless. lie, 
not frnitless in his knowledge, when sense TotmrKsd, 
smiled at the dictum ol" ihe learned men. His healing 
balm at hand, he straightway placed it on the injured 
part ; with tact and skill rei>laced the broken Itonos, and 
soon returned to tiseful toil. Fame, on her undipped 
wings, soon carried abroad the faithful tale; andt 
the peasant's son, leaving aside his tlailj ffoA,- 
called to cure the liundred ills of injured health. ' The 
ducluTK, cruel doctors, still benighted by cusloui and 
IicattJcss gain, looked nut on this with pleasure. "When,! 



ehaU this hind, tkis labouriog limtl, dcgtro3> our £ees ?" 
they ciied; atul, btraightway, in a liind wbere man is 
not free, the " wasaer cur," by eensele&s law and power 
absolute, was made to cease. The intrepid jjeasiiut, 
strong in his couvjctiona, stooped not wIlliD|;ly to the 
tmjuet decree. " If men are the slaves of power, water 
Is iree," he tfaonght. " To drink thereof, to wash, ia 
granted to tlm serf; tiiid human hiw, shackluig the 
body and the thoughts of men, cannot arrest the 
stream ,'" On this, and prompted by his gratcfnl friends, 
lie called on justiec and on couimon-scnse to add them- 
selves to law, and grant him slil! the power to use the 
■simple means, which, in Eia bands, made man another 
man. 'Twas granted ; and now, with years of observa- 
tion, and care of aiUng man, he slands pre-eminent in 
knowledge of the virtues of this sacred gift ; surrounded 
by hclplcBS pilgrims Irom distant lands in search of 
health — Europe resounds with all he does. My true tale 
is told— he lives in usefulness and peace, his cure beyond 
tlie reach of law. Many of the details of this history 
are sulfidcutly curious to merit insertion. 

Vincent Priessuilz Js now forty-three years old, in 
perfect henlth, built with broad shoulder?, robust, 
without any teudeney to fat ; his height about five feet 
eight. As I have said, he has great tact and penetra- 
n, with decidedly the higher order of intellecl. Ac- 
rdiug to the phrenological doctrine, he has the organs 
of intellect " par excellence ;" comparison and casualty 
' ■well-developed ; firmness, combativeness, and destrue- 



BOTORY OF PRIESSNITZ, 



irhkdl^^ 



tiveness, large. In shorl, it ia utie of those cerebnd 
confomiiitions, which a. phrenologist would say was 
neteBsary for a tcudcr, or the founder of a great system. 
The expression of his countenance is intelligent Bud in- 
qukiiig ; he has a i/eneral appearance of firmness, wl 
be pogseeses, in fact, to the degree of obstinacy, B; 
accident, his front teeth were knocked out, and he 
the hahil of keeping his lipsi closely coropreeecd, wliicb 
adds to the natural expression of firmness, so luueh de- 
veloped by exertion and opposition. With all this (and 
it appears almost a eon tradie lion,) there is a restlcsfOiGSs 
in his eyes, giving him the look of Buapicion, almost of 
canning. One thing struck me particularly as curioos ; 
at a little distance he apyjears a very large man, but b» 
you a)^)proach, he becomes grndually less and less to 
eye, till when you are quite near, his features are 
and his person of moderate dimensions. He is exci 
sively reserved in his general deportment, and speaka 
little an possible, answering only direct questions; oil 
wise he is mate, seldom volunteering an ubservatiua ; 
this habit has been ftwced upon him, and he has shewu 
his wisdom in adopting it, us he has in many othec^i 
things ; it imposes upon, and keeiKt Ins numerous 
mixed patients at a distance, and prevents his 
worried to death. It has its ineonvenicn 
when carried to excess, for he fi^quently omits to 
the necessary instructions, when the paticut forgets, or 
does not know how to ask them. For more than 
twenty years he has not drauk anything but milk foe 



HI9 WATEB CUBE, ETC, 



brfiaWast and supper, and water as hia oitlinary beve- 



When he first commenced the eiiriiif; uf ditieneea by 
water, hia wife had not mneh Jnith in it : at all events 
she made him promise that a doctor should attend ber 
first child, which was a boy. The child fell ill, Bome 
doctors were in attendance, and it died. From that 
day, although he has had seven children, all Jang/item, 
no doctors have beca called in ; ihcy have gone ibrongh 
all the ailments of childhood — measles, hoojiiug-cough, 
scarlet icvcr, &c. — without giving either hini or her one 
moment's apprehension. I have seen him treat one of his 
children in fever. The child being irom home, had 
been neglected, and when brcLtght home had delirium 
and fever. I saw the mother going in and out (having 
the snperintcnilenee of provisioning 500 guests), shak- 
ing her kejB, and looking uneonceroed, and even 
cheerfiil. She committed a blunder at the begin- 
ning of the treatment, PrieBsnitz having left it to her. 
She had taken the child out of the bath the first lime 
too soon, moved by its entreaties, and thus made work 
for three days of what might have been done in one, 
PricKinitz said there conld be nothing more culpable in 
the treatment by the water cure than this mistaken 
kiudnese. However, when he is ill, bis with " doctors" 
him ; he gives directione, and tells her to see that they 
are carried into effect. 

Some years ;^o, before his repuUition was established, 
in the depth of an almost Biberian winter, he went iu a 



28 



UISTonV OF PEIESSNI' 



il^, 



siiialt car to see a patient in' a disfaut villngcj he'Ws 
then requested to go on Idrtlicr; so that by the time h6 
reached home, his lower limbs were frozen. The next 
clay, being very ill with swelled legs, and inllanimatioh 
coniinf; ou in the stomach and boweli-, with very tlttti'- 
geroiis symptoms, he said to his wile, "I must |ft| 
mediately go into the shallow bath and be rabbedj»^ 
I shall be Iiiid up with a dangerous illness, perhaps i 
fatal one. Do you see it done !" He remained between 
six and seven horns in the bath, and the next day was 
oiit of all danger, and nearly quite well. Is it then 
astonishing that he should have sueh confidence himself 
or inspire his patients with the same feeling ? 

When he commenced his "water cure," he met \ 
great opposition from the medical men of the neighbour- 
ing town, was denounced as a charlatan and a conjuror, 
and anathematized from the pulpit; and I was toW 
there was an attempt made by some of the peasants to 
assassinate him, believing he had sold himself to the 
author of evil. IFe was summoned before a tribunal, 
whose verdict compelled him to desist from practising. 
A laughable case occurred of a miller he had cured of 
gout: the doctor said ho had cured hiro, and the man 
said Priessnitz had. The three culprits were placed 
before the judge, who, turning to the patient, who hatl 
been an old tippler, asked him, " Which of tliese two 
men cured you ?" " Why both, your honour," was Iiis 
reply ; " the doctor relieved mc of my money that ^rent 
for the drink, and Friessoitz of my gout.' 



latiun 

apS' h H 

ween 

y was I 

then I 

maelf, J 



1.11 



J 



DI9 WATEn CUEK, ETC. 



29 



, .Hisiperscoiitiani. Uowevcr, liy tbe faciillj diil not end 
hsre,; ihe iiumlicr of liis patients dailj increasing, liis 
fame spircad tu Vjenua, and persons were sent lo anftlj'se 
the water, to discover its mystic virtue ; so true h it tli^t 
men will not believe that great effects can proceed fr^m 
^mple. causes. The water -was found to be of tli^ 
puffist description. They stared at each other for a 
time, when tlie idea slnick them, " It must be— ryes, i^ 
is in the sponges he uses, that be hides liis secret reinef 
dies." The sponges were analysed, and there, top, alas ! 
alas I nothing was found. What was to be done nest? 
" There is nothing for it hut to slop ' the ciu"e.' " This, 
in fact, took place; but it did not last long, lie ap- 
pealed against the decision, barked hy hit patients, who 
said they would drink water, and the prosecution was 
obliged to be given up. Then the paternal government 
of Vienna sent a commission to inquire into the real 
stale of ftffaii^B. Fortunately for Priessuitz and for the 
water cure, old Baron Turkhelm, who is at the head of 
the medical department of the empire, was also at the 
heoilofdiis; a man celebrated for his independent spirit, 
his great leai'ning and scientific acquirements, and his love 
of freedom, which, unfortunately for his countrymen, he 
13 vUig<:d to keep a good deal to himself. lie staid 
some time at Graefeuberg, and on his return to Vienna, 
being at a medical society, he was asked what he thought 
of the new charlatanism ; he replied, " Priossnltz is no 
impostor; he beats us iu bis prognosis, and is morc 
successful in his practice. Balieve me, you lia]>f much to 
learn from this ' country man.'' " This made the sages of 



iiisTonT OP pnrESSNiTZ, 



Vienna still more angry and violent againBt the "water 
cure" and its founder — shutting up the avennea of their 
understanding, against the evidence of their senses — 
notwithstanding the aecuinulated (acts which presented 
themselves a,mong their jtatients, who, leaving them with 
little hope, returned in perfect health. Many of these 
gentlemeu adopted a novel mode (which I was told of 
at Graefenberg by the partieR themselves) of giving 
their refractory patients lii/dn>phohia. Assuming the 
moat pathetic and melancholy length of visage, they 
wished their patients farewell. " Farewell for ever, jou 
will be killed ; we shall never see yoii again. You will 
nmer come back to ui from that hor-r-rid Graefenberg." 
This waa often repeated, with a roar of laughter, in 
which I joined 'most consumedly.'" As related in 
German by some of the facetious ones, who were gettiug 
well in a canter, it was irresistible. It is interesting to 
see the gradual increase of the patients, and I have 
appended a list, from the year 1831 to 1841, By iIub 
time it must be recollected nearly 100 other institutions 
attracted their share of patients. 



( a child.., 



,. hectic lever, cdDEitmpliuti, 

. icrofub, &c. and canTnUions. 
. disease of the cheat. 
. cramp. 



. lieclie ftver. 
. apopleTj. 
, iateraal ganL 



BCWiWATBR CCBB^ VKk 



31 



Year. 
1836 
1837 



590 



1838 



800 



1839 



1400 



1840 



1576 



1841 above 1400 



7219 



^aman 



6 < 



/ ^ a man ... 36 ... palmonary consumption. 

469 ..'.'*' 3 '\ „' ... 5S ... cfamp in chest. 

•,, ^awomm 26 .., hectic fever, inflftmrn^tion of bovels. 
1 a man ... 56 ... palmonary consamption. 
^ a man ... 85 ... abscess breaking internally. 
„ ... 26 ... palmonary consumption. 
„ ... 44 ... ditto, ditto. 
„ ... 50 ... abscess in liver, 
a woman 38 ... cramp. 

50 ... apoplexy. 
60 .... diarrhcea. 
31 ... hectic fever, cancer, 
consamption. 

hectic fever and abflceisses. 
consamption. 
apoplexy, 
consamption. 
25 ... ditto. 

50 ... supposed disease of heart. 
57 ... cancer and hectic fever. 
29 ... diseased kidneys. 
53 ... supposed apoplexy. 
. a woman 37 ... had not commenced the cure, 
^aman ... 25 ... hectic fever. 

... 53 ... cancer of stomach, vomiting. 
... 40 ... consamption. 

... 50 ... disease of heart, lungs, and stomach, 
mercury and syphilis, 
scrofula, enlarged mesenteric glands, 

and suppuration, 
cancer, hectic fever, 
cancer of the stomach, hectic fever. 



7 < 



»» 

>♦ 

»» 

» 

»» 
a man 

M 

»» 
» 

»> 



42 

48 
45 
56 
23 



8 ' 



»» ••• 

>» ••• 

„ ... 

a child... 



24 
4 



a woman 39 
45 



» 



39 



The surgeon of the little town, who states the nature 
of the fatal diseases, is not the first pathologist extant, 
so that I cannot answer for his accuracy. Some are put 
down as consumption, or wasting: I have, however. 



3-2 



UISTORY OF rHIESSHITZ, 



ascertained that they were ne.irly nil hopoleB^ casQS on 
their arrival — persons who insistetl pn remi^iiig, ^hen 
Priessnitz unwillingiy acoeded to tht-ir eatreaties to trj 
and relieve some of the symptoms. It ivill \>e sctn that 
a uumber are cases of pulmonary consnmplicm, cancer 
in its last stages, and some eases of apoplexy, which are 
very easily accounted for. They all arise from what 
I shall call, fur want of a bettor name, stvpidltii's, gor- 
mandizing, sweating, or lying in the wet sheets with 
CEammed stomachs, and sometimes a little sly tippling. 
Sac, In ten years there are 7219 patients registered, 
and 38 deaths. These are ait strangers who came from 
great distances to consult the peasant; the natives 
not included. Does not this speak volumes for . 
water cure, when we consider that the majority nf the "^ 
7219 [wticnts were cases considered very bad or hope- 
less by their medical attendants, and (hat the 38 cases 
of death were most of them of a nature utterly hopeless ? 
There have been some hundreds lost in Nice this winter 
by scarlet fever, a disease that in its woret forms is con- 
sidered trifling by those who understand its treatment 
by water, by which a ease cannot he lust e^fcept by tlie 
most stupid negligence and inability; and y£t many 
medical men can go on smiling at the watftr cure, and 
buying their farrago of drugs and tisanes. 

To resume the current of our history. Medical men 
were now sent by the different continental governments, 
to examine and report on the water cure, and if favour- 
able, to erect similar institutions, Some appreciated itj 



thr " ■ 



eciated !t, l 



) ■WATER CCnE, ETC. 



33 



'abyesiabli^Klhents ar6s6 in different parts of Germany. 
Tn Russia il'wiia also patronized by royalty, being con- 
sidered by the emperor " the best thing that wis ever 
invented," as I heard from one of his generals.'A 

Doctor H was sent by the Bavarian govemmtnt ; 

duriilg hi3 stay, his conduct was bo opposed to the 
method, and so unguarded, that Priessnitz was Abltged 
to request him to leave the establishment. Ite aflet- 
Kards formed an establishment of his ami, which he sub- 
scqii^ntly relinquished, because it did not answer bis 
pecuniary motives, and because it did more harm than 
good, and the patients left him. Soon after, he pub- 
lished a work against the " water cure," and inserted a 
violebt article to the same purpose in the " Munich Ga- 
zette." The work was answered by Doctors MflUer and 
Dieterieh; their critique goes to shew the melancholy 
fact, that in liis lucubrations against the "water cure," 
he had displayed a deplorable want of knowledge of the 
first principles of the practice of medicine. What he 
said of water was haidly worth refuting. Tlie article 
he wrote in the Munich Gazette was answered by the 
Venerable Dean of the Chapter of Ratisbon. I mention 
this to shew kow patients take this matter up. He (the 
Dean) had been a patient at Graefenberg, and was 
cured, at an advanced age, of many ailments. In a 
Tetter to a fncnd, which he published in the same Ga- 
zettei he relates his oira cure, draws a number of in- 
teresting comparisons, and must have made poor Ehwtor 



34 



HISTORY OF PRIESSNITZ, 



H repent his hasty mistako, and bis unforfunal 

speculations. 

About this time, a Doctor E — ■ — published a work 
against Priessnitz, more personal against the man than 
against his method. This was taken up by old Doctor 
Kupprirht, of Breslau, a celebrated practitioner, wllfl 
shews this gentleman very clearly, that he is in a vet^^ 

Gimilar state with Dr. H , (whom I have mentioned,) 

and that his personalities against Priessnitz had not a 
good motive — Vincent had not been very polite to 
him. 

Priessnitz is decidedly a great favourite, and has the 
greatest influence with his patients. The ladies, from 
the reigning ducliesa, princess, baroness, downwards, 
dote upon him ; lliey go so far as to embrace him— 
once, liefore parting. This devotion on the part of tfaiftl 
ladies is not to be wondered at, when we consider that 
many arrive at Graefenberg with a "green and yellow 
melancholy," not very amiably disposed, pale and wan, 
dragging one reluctant extremity after the other, — and 
leave it with florid complexion, with vivacity, and an 
amiable temper, a rounded form, and an elastic tread. 
These they know to be the greatest elements of beauty 
and of attraction, and they are grateful. 

Priessniti! is not positive in hia injunctions against the 
taking of wine. There are cases in which, he thinks, 
wine as a cordial might be of benefit; in fact, that it is 
a " good familiar creature" when well used, understand- 



HIS WATER CURE, ETC. 35 

iilg always that the wine be good.' When wine is 
abused, and of iictitious (jualiLy, it is the demon of evil 
incarnate, for the mind and for the body. Port wine, in 
particular, requires great care ; every intelligent gen- 
tleman knows that too much "black strap" takes his 
legs from under iiim, destroys his cheerfulness, and 
makes him ill " in toe-toe." 

It is this tendency to abuse the taking of wine and 
other atimulanta, aa well as its being always finite super- 
fluous, that makes us temperate folk forbid it alto- 
gether. Wine exactly resembles Mr. Morrison's pilk 
in one respect — it makef its otoii wirk; taken to-day, it 
brings on the necessity of repetition to-moiTOw, and so 



" There are very many people who are not awsre how mueh bud 
Tine there ia dnink in England, hoir ennily the fulsificutioa is made, 
■nd how pemicions it is. Out of n book on wines I extracted a receipt 
for connterfeiling port wine, and, hj repeated eiperimenls, iind Be»eral 
additions, I made a liqnid so e:iactly resembling port wine, that I can 
deeetre even the best judges when they are not on their guard. The 
expense of making it is nboat G^. ft f\i31-sixed qunrl bottle. It produces 
the sensations induced by port wine more quiekly than that by the 
pare juice of Ilie grape, and the majority would think it a better and 
warmer wine ; but though not exactly poisonous, its effects are very 
deleterious after a time, producing slight fever, a gnawing, and a sense 
of sinking at the stomach, attended, soon or later, by what may be callid 
a LonduH parllrutar Uvircampiainl: this I have seen in dnxens who had 
been long drinking this horrid stuff. To produce a deep erust on fi^e 
bottle, a bee's wing, and to make the cork appear as if it iiad been 
several years in the bottle, is a very simple process. I Ishoiild like to 
shew the puhlio how easily all ibis is done, hut 1 fear it is a receipt that 
would do more harm by being made use of. than good by the caution 
which ll would hold out. And moreover the present imilatione are un- 
fortunately already loo good to he easily delected. 
D 2 



3t3 



HISTOHY OF PfllESSKlT^ 



ui), increasing the dose. This must be said for tem- 
perate men — tliey are the only real jovial fcIloH-s, always 
up to tlio mark, never sad, though sometimes serious. 
Wc sleep well, and eat well, and are never in bad bu- 
mour with onrselves or our fellows. It may be asked, 
liow is a dinner to go o£f without wine ? and I dare say 
the proposer of the question would consider it a poser, 
and unanswerable. But I wonid, with all due deier- 
ence, reply, that I have sat down to many, many din- 
ners, where there was ahandauee of wine of every, and 
the best ileseription, and they were " as stupid as stupid 
could be," an infliction instead of a pleasure ; a regular 
undertaking to get through the business without yawn- 
ing; nothing to compensate in any way for the fcver, 
head-ache, &c. &c., which so often follow this eating 
and drinking too much. On the other hand, by way of 
contrast, I may say that the gayest and most cheerful 
dinners of which I ever partook were, where there was 
no \vine ; no one looked tired or ennuye ; all seemed to 
enjoy the plain hut good things before them, followed 
by no malaise or regrets ; health, appetite, and bqoyint 
mirth were the order of the day. 

However, I cannot hide from myself that this desirable 
state is not bo easily acquired — it requires time to ac- 
complish it, or the " water cure." Suppose a gentleman 
with a wife and a large family, and his affairs more than 
a little embarrassed, returning home through the cheer- 
ing atmosphere of London on a November day, after an 
9 and a hard day's work, dry, but without a 



HIS WATER CURR, ETC. 



I 



tUe, would jou deny any one in this state a glass of 
wine with his dinner, when accustomed to it ? But it is 
a fact, that if he takes much, it, in the end, incapacitates 
him from struggling, and carrying out his plans with 
success. If he knew thoroughly how to stimulate aud 
manage himself with water, he would be able lo do 
everything with gaiety, tranquillity, confidence, aud 
facility, and he would save enough every year to pay ail 
his discounts, or to insure his hfe for a handsome sum. 
The drinking of wine aud spirits is only a habit, like 
smokiDgaudsDuff-taking, only somewhat more expensive, 
and the disagreeable feeling when they are not to be 
had, is as great in the one as in the other. 

The gicat temperance man, Priessnitz, drauk one 
glass of champagne with me at a wedding; it is tme we 
did not inueh like it. Champagne, though, is a very 
good wine, hut can seldom be had good ; the vile com- 
pound that replaces it on most occasions, even in the 
first houses and hotels, being composed of materials 
which are excessively injurious to the liver and the 
digestive organs, as many find out the day after drinking 
Tlie rascally inventors and makers of falsified drinks 
and eatables deserve Hot to be encoitrageil, but to be excom- 
municated. If I had my will, I would inflict the severest 
punishment ; I would make them take themselves what 
they so unfeelingly destine fur others. 

Tlie horrible nature of this infliction may be iinagiued 
by the imaginative reader, by my relating to Iiiin tlic 
following story, which, though nut very new, lie may, 
par hctsardi not have heard before. In the olden timet 



08 uiH'ronv of Piii£iwNtTZ, 

long bcfurc ihe lUyn of wliulesale dniggislb ; heSon 
coliitynth, gripiny aloes, atld other ffetUle druff*, arrived 
iit Alljion's ohorcs, filliug uur stately sKipe ; beibre castor 
uil was brought lii ileetE, and " poured aloDg the town," 
tbere lived an ancient herbalist, lean, and of sallow hue- 
One day, in dee])cst trance, reflecting ou bis favourite 
lierbti, witliuut the power of conscious thought, he swal- 
lowed eoinelhing I Soon to his wits returning, with tears 
in fountain gushes, rolling down his cheeks, and sweat 
distilling from his agitated brows, and [Kturlng down 
bia pitiful nose, Uke waters meeting, be rushed from his 
little room. Entering the better lodging of a favoured 
Kon of EscubipiuB, "Doctor, ob! doctor," bt- cried, "I 
have swallowed two of my patent pillb !" The 
cioctor, cruel man 1 with too careless look, replied, " Well, 
yuu have done t/ic deed; you arc finished off I" 

To get a motto which I had thought of, I sent for a 
volume of Byron, and although I imagined I bad read 
all be had written, I found the following, which was 
new to me, and may be so to the reader. 1 make 
it ae illustrative of my subject : — 



FRAGMENT. 
" On the back of tit Poet'i MS. 
" I would to Hi'avtn that I were so mocli clay, 
Ab 1 Bin blood, bone, marruw, passion, leelill 
Because ut lonet Che paat wure pais'd amj — 
And for Uic future— (but I write tliis reeling. 
Having gut drunk exueedinglj to-day. 

So llisl I seem to stand upon the ceiling ;) 
I say — the future is & scriouB matter — 

Aud so — fur God's sake — hock aud boda-watcr !" 



ma WATER CUBE, ETC. 



This canaot be reflected on without at o 



i seeing 



a rock on which he split, — the euemy which often guided 
his pen and directed the current of his thoughts,— 
making him an easy prey to those who haled him or 
envied his powers, and giving hini many a liead-ac/ie, 
stomach- acite, and heart-ache. He was always grumbling 
about his " clay," and wishing himself out of it ; had he 
had the luck or good sense to have " moistened his 
cJay" with water instead of " blue-ruhi," he would have 
found the said " clay" a very plastic and agreeable com- 
pamon in a long and delightful poetical life of eighty or 
a hundred years, instead of dying at a httle past thirty, 
and bemg always unhappy. And, moreover, had this 
greatest of great poetical geniuses, Shakspcare excepted, 
that man has ever seen, known the rewards of tem- 
perance, with his naturally generous disposition he 
would have done incalculable good, in forwarding many 
of the vital tulerestfi of mankind ; with longer life, all 
things were to have been hoped for from Byrou, for he 
loved truth in his inmost heart. Unfortunately he got 
into the wrong track, aud did not know how to get out 
of it ; sometimes committing the intemperance of fasting 
for days on biscuits and soda-water, then eating lobsters 
to excess, and with other matters setting his brain on 
fire, and at last ending his days in the prime of life. 
' " Notwithstanding all this, I would give up my knowledge 
of human nature, if he was not the most persuadable of 
human beings. 

Give me any fuli-growu individual, aad let me act on 



40. 



' PBIBS£MTZ, 



bis- eystetn aod his brain, through bis stonwcfa, vrixb- 
latAls and drinks in smaS or larger qiiaulit^ at mi/ 
dUpoial, and I will make hita grave or gay, cbecr^l or 
melancholy ; reduce him to the depths of despair, or 
elevate him to a fancied heaven, I will destroy bis 
memory, or make him imagine bimeelf the most mker- 
ablo iman on earth — the most to be pitied — hw*ii^ 
in bi» ^tosscssion everything to make him satisfied. Z 
will make him run or walk, lie in bed without the power 
of movement — to blasplienic or pray, and, although the 
best of persons, lay violent hands on ma own ufe. 
Of tliesc states there is every shade of iutenseness, which 
people produce themselves, without my being called 
upou to cxperiuieutalize ; such is ibe human consti- 
tution, and such tire the facts which medical men eec 
frequently illustrated. 

It is evident that the htiinaa mind, in its present earth!; 
stale of existence, is so closely connected with the bodjj 
that whatever affects the one must also affect the othel 
thus we shall find mental anguish produce bodily suft wing, 
and vice versa. Ignorant persona, who take a siiperficial 
vieiv of things, may look upon this as the doctrine i 
materialism ; but this is a most absurd mistake. The b 
acts upon the mind, and the mind upon the body, a 
religion accords with, and indeed teaches, tiiia fact. 

Water, temperance, cheerful spirits, and enough of 
proper enjoyments, (the natural result of the two 
former,) would give most men a term of existence 
itom eighty to a hundred and ten years, endipi 



rlbl y I 

ficial 
:ine <^^^^J 

;l. I 



J 



I 



I wfth a cAieerful and "green gld aj^e;" and when the 
r years could no longer add to their numbers, they would, 
in leaving their old companion, bid hiin a kind farewpll, 
when taking his last long sleep in an arm-chair by the 
fire-side, in many cases surrounded by his children, and 
his children's children's children, to whom he had been 
a good example, a kind preceptor and protector. This 
lapse of years would, too, have given a man time to do 
something wUhout hurry or anxiety ; and it would be 
certainly much better than dying in a heated room, with 
closed blinds, a prey to pains and regrets, surrounded — 
not by his dear children and soothing reminiscences — 
but by hundreds of vials, (if there had been time to send 
BO many,) wliich, as happens full often, had " poured 
out their wrath" — not the less for being disguised in halm 
and wrapped in coloured paper — on the devoted head of 
the suffering victim of a misspent life, mistaken indul- 
gences, and medicinal treatment. 

It is the fashion, in all the works I have seen on the 
" Water Cure," to say that Pricssnitz has no theory or 
principles of practice, that all he docs is by a kind of 
instinct — by looking a man through, as I have already 
said. Were he told so, he would feel anything but com- 
phmented; he prides himself above all things in not 
doing anything without a reason and according to his 
theory and principles of practice. He looks at andlcels 
the skin, examines the make uf and marks on a man 
with the greatest attentiuu and accuracy, and makes 
them valuable guides as to what be ought to do, atid 




wlut opinion to furia as to ttie state of the constltatiMif 
aiid nature of the disease. He goes no further, for the 
best of all possible reasons, becaufie he does oot kaowor 
undersUiid the mesQe. He does not feel the pulse of 
look al the tongue, both valuable and almost indis- 
pensable when understood, and joined with all other meant ; 
had he done this, he would have acted somewhat difiei- 
cntly in many cases which 1 have noted. 

Preissnilz is an out aud out humoral pathologist, aa 
might be expected. The theory of the causes and nature 
of disease which existed when man tirst began to reason 
on these matters, and before physiological knowledge, 
pathology, and morbid anatomy, had been brought to the 
peEtectiun which they have now attained, was, that tlie 
vitiated state of the blood and the humours gave origin 
to all diseases, and explained their divei^ily. This 
simple theory being the most tangible and easy to be 
understood, is the most likely to be adopted by the non- 
professional to explain and satisfy their minds searching 
afler the hidden causes of disease. I should not lay so 
much stress on this, but that it has led to an infinity of 
mischief; for instance, Mr. Morrison's piUs are taken 
and given with the stupid and vain hope of expelling 
humours. In ail this, effects are mistaken for causes. It 
may be said, at least, that, whether Mr. M.'a pills expel 
the bad humoura or not, they most certainly carry away 
the good humours sowier or later, producing melancholy 
as black as thunder-clouds, a destroyed digestion, despon^ 
dene;/, and despair. Many whom I have seen on the Cmi* 



ontHB^e^ 



ai8 WATEB CUBE, ETC 



43 



I tineat, as well oe wliile I was praclising in London, a&er 
having taken a course of thouBatids of theee pnitonous 
pills, presented a. most frightful picture. If tliey had 
gone through the portals of Dante's Inferno, on which it 
was written, " Vou who lake this course leave all hope be- 
hind you for ever" they oould not have been greater 

I objects of pity and commiseratiun. Most of the populu 
works on disease arc Ailed with these humours, and most 
quack medicine vendors avail themselves of this tame 
delusion to entrap their unfortunate victims. 

To make use of a simile : — Suppose I was to take my 
WRtch to the maker, and tell him the humours had put it 

, out of order — that one hnuiour maile it go too fast, an- 
other too slow, and a third bod stopped It altogether; 
he might justly think, with such idea^ of cause and effect, 
that I must myself be humorous or joking. He would 

I most likely add, " Sir, you dun't understand the ma- 
chinery and moving powers of your time-keeper, or the 

I causes of its ailments," and, knowing I was a medical 
man, he might explain it by the following superficial 
analogy: — Each wheel is an organ, having a separate 
office to perform, but requiring the united aid of all the 

I other " wheels within wheels," to execute it. Several 

I K^ these, attached somewhat more intimately, form appa- 
latuses which separate the general movement into 
seconds, minutes, and hours. The winding up and the 
propelling power, the noaiusprhig, are its general stimuli, 
the nicely-fitting ct^ and pivots its irrital/Uitif, its 

L ticking aud movements sh«w its semihiUty, aod keeping 



44 UI8T0RY Oir" PRIEeSNITZ, 

time its thoiii/iU. The sum of all these constitates >tt 
S/e. It has one humour, and but one — a litfle oU — 
■whiih most assuredly, when in too great or loo small a 
ijtianlity, too thick, or mised with dust, clogs the wheels, 
?nd interferes with the movements ; but this is trifling, 
compared with an injury done to one of its wheels, 
whieh makes it go ill, or the breaking of the mainspring, 
which stops or kills tt. 

By exciting too much any of the organs of the human 
body, they may be made so irritable and ill-tetnpered hs 
to produce afimuchA«<//i«ino«r as we please; for instance, 
by rubbing, or by putting dust or snuff in the eye suffi- 
ciently often, the organ that produces tears will manufac- 
ture and throw this liquid out in large quantities, until it 
becomes " scalilitiff," or imtil the eye is inflamed, and ftdl 
of purnlent matter. The same state may be produced 
in the stomach, liver, kidneys, &c. The beautiful ma- 
chinery of a watch cannot be understood ia a day w 
two by some, but it is simplicity itself, compared to tlie 
livinff human body, whose diseased states no humoral jja- 
thology will explain, which requires years of study, and 
something more t/uiii a mechanical mind, to undersland. 
But a gentlemen brimful of these humouta, says he is 
not salibfied still but that bad humours arc the cause, and 
not the result of morbid aetiou, as shewn clearly by the 
difl'crcut kinds of " crisis" that take place under tlie in- 
fluence of the water cure. I don't myself quite give up 
the humours, I only wish to keep them in proper boimds. 



You know there are ladies who arc sometimes very Ijoy- 



imes very to^J 



HIS WATER CURE, ETC. 



45 



spirited, thej know not why — soraotimea (Heaven knows !) 
with sufficient cause— but whether real or imaginary, 
after a certain lime they will begin to cry and 30b most 
piteonsiy, and go on in this way until they are qnite 
exhausted. When the paroxysm is oAcr, they are all 
sunshine, cheerfulness, and gaiety. This state of things 
has been so beautifully described by the poet, that I 
mot resist presenting it to the reader: — 

*' T.be heart is tike ihe eVy, a part at heavco, j 

But changes night and day loo, like the sky ; 
Now o'er it elands and thunder must be driven, ' 

And darknass and dcBiruciioo as ou high -, | 

But when it hath been scorched, and pierced, aud riven, 

Ila storms expire in waler-drops ; the eje 
Pours forth at last [he heart's blood turned to tears, " " 

, , , .Whicb makes tlie English cUnmte of our years." 

Now, this is nothing more nor less than a veritable 
But he must be a very simple thinker on these 
matters, indeed, who imagines that these tears, or 
humours that have been thrown out in such large quan- 
tities, and which have afforded such relief, had been 
flying about the body, now visiting this plaee, now that, 
doing all sorts of miechief, and causing depression of 
spirits and despondency. Such, however, are the crude 
notions of the simple and pure believers in bad humours 
jr ibe cause of diseased action. Again, some people, 
len they bum themselves, do all sorts of things to 
iraw out the Jire ;" now this is csactiy the same idea, 
it the humorous one — someiJting to draw out. They 
bhot form an idea of an increased, diminished, or 



4t HISTORY OF PRIE8KNITZ, 

changed action in the part, without ttiei* being some* 
thing in it that " mufil be drawn out." Now, in a rase 
of bum, if flour is placed on the part, it takes away the 
pMn and burning feeling directly, and produces a sensa- 
tion of cold. This change in feeling is produced, not 
by extracting fire, but by the protection which it affijrds 
to the exposed and injured nerves. If it should still he 
fancied that " tlie fire has been drawn out," mb off the 
flour, and it will again begin to bum and smart 

Priesanitz recommends people to clothe lightly, and 
to avoid flannel next the skin ; there is, no doubt, some 
reason in this, but, as in some other matters, be goes to 
extremes. His prejudice against flannel is so great, that 
he will not allow its use under any circumstances. He 
wears himself in winter, next the skin, a waistcoat and 
drawers of wash leather, or doe skin, and the drawers, I 
believe, even during summer. When I saw these, I must 
confess I was surprised. I have no doubt this is as bad, 
and even worse, than flannel. This leather casement 
was once the fashion in England, and recommended by 
medical men, but it soon fell into comparative disuse. 
It is bad, by completely protecting the surface from the 
bracing action of the air, and not producing warmth in 
proportion ; when it becomes damp by perspiration, or 
other causes, it remains so for a long time, and is difli- 
cult to dry. Flannel, on the other hand, being porous 
and light, gives sufficient warmth, and even when wetted, 
becomes quickly dry, preventing the eflects of sudden 
changes from hot to cold, and allowing the atmosphere 



1 WATEB CURB, ETC. 



|. act more fully on the skin. Afler wearing flannel 
r thirty years, I left it off in three days after com- 
lencing the " water cure," and have not worn it since ; 
tut KTider ordinary/ circumstances it should be done with 
' great care. If warmth is wanted, in many cases it is 
better to wear flannel outside the shirt, for there is no 
doubt it irritates the skin more or less. Wearing it at 
night is, under ajii/ circumstances, pernicious ; in bed it is 
not wanted, for there are no variations of tempernture. 
Flannel is most useful to those who sweat niuch> either 
from heat of climate or from the nature of their occupa- 
tion, for what is lost in one way is gained in another — 
Ale prevention of sudden chills. It is highly usefid for 
ibe rheumatic and gouty, and should be worn by many 
U'/ 'Aey ore long advanced in their cvre hy water. In or- 
|(Knary cases, where the skin and the constitution are 
t in vigour by water, it is superfluous, and even in- 
P^iouB. What makes Priessnitz so obstinate on this 
wint, I cannot exactly determine, but he has, with all 
B genius and sagacity, two or three decided mystifica- 
P:|lons, He evidently tries to stick as close to nature as 
I he can, and by this he has done wonders. I have thought 
Ktiiat perhaps he had a notion that because doeskin was 
1% good covering tor an animal that was always exposed 
» the weather, it must be the best for man ; but he 
mows that a living skin, and the same after it hae 
Msed through the hands of the tanner, are very 
Klflifferent things, and notwithstanding bis violent ob- 
Ktion to flannel, that another kind of animal, the 



UI8TOBY OF PniESSNlTZ, 



' Bteep, is kept waim liy it, aiitl that It seiftitos'id' 



very 



well. 



The Mackintosh ci,oth madk mro coATs, la' t'Sb 

WORST THING THAT COULD HAVE BKEN CONTRrVED ; It 

is like putting a man iii a buttle nitb only his lieail otii. 
The insensible perspiration cannot pass off, anil it con- 
denses on the skin, niuking all the clothes nn^efticath 
quite damp. After wearing this kind of coat fora few 
liours, when it is taken off, the individual feeh c6ld and 
very chilly, and becomes very liable to rheiimatisin and 
bowel complaints. I bad a great coat made in the fol- 
lowing way : — the skirts, from the waist to the ancles, 
are made of blue Mackintosh cloth, the body aiid^lei^es 
of ordinary cloth to match in colour, a movable bk^, 
the same as the skirts, attached with buttons under me 
collar. With this I am imponctrablo, and when travel- 
ling in fine weather, or at night, the cape can be removed, 
nnd I thus escape a general stcam-balb, and have all 
the advantages of the excellent invention of Mackintosh. 
There is no doubt that man was intended by natnre 
to expose more of his person to the weather thanhenotr 
does. When a gentleman asked a North Amerif^fm 
Indian, who was scarcely decently dressed, whether he 
did not feel cold, he pnt his hand very gently^ on the 
questioner's face, and asked him if that was cold ; on 
receiving a reply in the negative, he said, "Weil, then, 
I am all face." Look at the decollete stale of the gentler 
and weaker parts of the creation in a ball room, and ask 
them if they are cold, or if they do not suffer t 



rfl-otn tltei^^J 



BIS -WATER CUaF, ETC. 



49 



F JbabitHaljy bare Qeck^ tlicy answ;er, no. On the other 

hand, wo see men for their sins tighlcned about the 

jjieck with bandages, which nearly prevent all movement 

and ahnost prmhice slrangiilatiun, making them look a^ 

iif ijiey I had swallowed a metnllic rod and could not 

digest it, unftble to look to the right or the left, resigned 

.to their fate, and apparently stuck up for life. Most of 

I ^ the peasants about Graefenbei^ go about with hare legs 

I .ami teet; I had the curiosity to ask them if they did 

I .pot suffer from cold leet. " Only in very frosty weather, 

I .nevef when it rains," (and it is nearly always raining,) 

I was the leply. An Irish gentleman at Graefonlwrg told 

me that his ahepheriis were never so well as when their 

._leet were conslanlly wet by being in the low grounds. 

There are hut few days in England when a foot-buth 

,imight not be taken in this way. Serionsly, encasing 

j the hands and feet in leather is no doubt pernicious to 

Itj^the health in the long run, though not admitting of 

1 ,^uch reform in the present state of civilization, without, 

l.^ndecd, some physiological Bruramel were to set the 

I „ example of going bare-footed, and exposing the hands to 

l„the hi'eath of heaven, 

X^hall.now say something about ihe advantages of a 
ii,f' Water Cure" Establishment as briefly as possible, 
y Amongst the foremost are the removal of the patient 
L^roiii all business, care, and temptation, that can inter- 
n ftre with the cure and hia reium to a healthy state. The 
Lj.patient goes to bed early^ and get^ up early, and goes 
Jlfq^gfa thtj diflerenl parts of the cure with, more case 



TiO 



niaxoBY OF phif.ssnitz, 



and plensiire trunk Lho i^tlmiilits ul' association and s«- 
ample ,■ he bas the n^lvantage of sceiDg similar cases to 
his own cured, uf comparing notes and lecciving conso- 
huion; "the tocsin of the soul — the dinner-bell," is here 
real music, and the dinner, though simple, a positive en- 
jiiyuieiit ; there is no gene, cTcry one does as he Ukes, 
making acquaintances or not, but with the buoyant spu'ils 
Ihal are always reigning, becoming sooner or later in- 
fected, andjciining in sociability and mirth. It is a general 
remark that the most reserved people, on their arrival at 
(il-aefenberg, become in a short time mnch changed, from 
reaerve and ill-temi>er to the reverse.' During the cure, 
Ihn wind must he left as unemphii/ed ns possibk: We know 
that great exertion of mind will arrest the operation of 
powerful medicines; I found that by exerting myself in 
taking notes I retarded my cure, but in such a scene of 
interest it was imiwssible to resist. A certain degree «/" 



" " Lftttghler," says Professor Hafbland, of Berlin, in his work on 
longevitj', " is one of the grealeat lielps lo digeslion with which 1 am 
acquainted, and the custom prevalent among our forefntlieTs of ticiting 
it Bl tabic hy Jeatersand hufToond was founded on true medical priociplei; 
in u word, tndeasour to have cbijcrful upd mefry compnnions nt yoMC 
uicals ; what nonrishiDEnt une receives araidsl mirth and jollity will eer- 
lainly produce good and light blood." Bnl we no longer want p rofeM e d 
jesters and bnifooni, water produces "mirth and jollity," an eaijndCidf 
an easy digestion, and "good nnii light blood." What more could be 
had from stimulnnls of all kinds? Ilnfortunatel;, io Ibc m^orit)' of 
cases Mimiiliuits prodnce the very reverse, thiekening the blood, maltiDg 
the temper nncertalni often gloomy and morose. The present mode of 
producing hilarity hy flctiliouB cLampagne and other falsified wines, and 
olher similarly liolent means of unloosening moral and physical tight- 
Iscing, the depression caused by ill health or the ilhuuluHla qf j/aUnlaa, 



eiB wATF-n ( 



riE, ETC. 



51 



i is essential to the cure of some diseases, but the 
winter at Graefenbcrg is rather too severe for a certain 
class; I should say that the elimate of England was the 
best possible for the "water cure;" in fact, it is, taking 
it altogether, the most healthy climate in the world, and 1 
have had a fair opportunity of judging. Fortunately for 
my countrymen, there is none where stimulating and 
drugging can be carried on with so much impunity; but, 
notwithstanding the salubrity of the climate, the skin is 
kept in so sensitive a state to the variations of tempe- 
rature, by stimulating the internal surface too much, as 
to produce rheumatism, colds, nnd dise^es of the chest, 
I &c. Stage -coach men have found out this secret; they 

w drink very little, comparatively, and always refuse 
hot brandy and water and hot beer, bccanae they noto 
know it makes them feel l/ie cold, and makes them liable 
to rheumatism, more quickly even than the same things 

are very poor Enlistitates fnr tlie exuberant aDimal ipirits produced by 
temperaacc aad water. There is anothey little point which I had almost 
omitted, which is, that if wines were dispenaed with, there would )x 
more dining tngethur and >oclabi11l7 amongst the middle classes j and 
munng the rieher orders the H' and C' accouuts of dinners would not 
lie worth keeping, all would he put on Ibefree liul. Many people spend 
more than they ought, and necessarily tnalie themselves unhappy ; they 
tbink themselves obligal to gift dinners and maJie tlieir frienda ill. I 
once said to a lady, opropo* to dinners, " Vmi seem to me to give ynurself 
an inimensity of trouble." " Oh !" she replied, " the trouble's nothing, 
tke erpenne is all; we are not very rich, and one of onr dinners vonld 
I keep our large family in all the necessaries of lift for a month." I 
I have remarked one thing— however bospllahle the host may be, the guest 
> does nn' drink wine is not the first to be omitted iu the in- 



us 



niSTORY OF PBIESftNITZ, 




taken roll). The Russian genUemcn lire, of all ot 
natiuDS, the most sensitive to alnioRpheric ImpFesions; 
with n breath of air on go the military cloalis, while the 
Italians, in tlie same place, are going about in Bimuner 
jarketH. When I first observed this at Gracfcuberg, I 
was rurious to know the reason of the anomaly ; it was 
soon evitlcnL The Russian gentlemen having the surr- 
face always proteeted witli furs, so that the air cannot 
act at all on the skin, living as much as they can in 
rooms highly heated by stoves, drinking hot lea with 
brandy in it at all hours of the day, (it is the fashion to 
Imve it simmering on a side tttble from moraing till nigltt, 
with a bottle of brandy near at hand, for all comers;) 
wbeteas the Italians live in the open air, and take very 
little stimulating drinks — this, I should thijik, speaks fiir 
ilBclE There is another point, which I ought not to 
omit — the length of time that the cure takes in some 
CQSCB. I can illustrate this by the foUowing recollection :— 
A Russian general, much past fifty, who had l>een 
for many years right-hand man to Cunslanline, brother 
to the present emperor, and who had worked him to 
the injury of his health, had been tweli'e months at 
Graofenhcrg, and although wonderfully improved, and 
on the high road to the perfect re-cstablinhment of hia 
heattli, often came to me to grumble at the length of 
time he had been there, and to seek consolation, which 
I administered in the following elrain : — " You told me, 
twelve months ago, that you were a dying man, not ex- 
pecting to be in the land of the living for another year 



mother year; I 



Hla WATER CURI 



yc^ said some of the first medical men in Eiivop had 
had the candotir to tell you that not much could be done 
for your case. You have now every rational prospect of 
living twenty or thirty years longer, and with more 
enjoyment and freedom from paiu than you have ex- 
perienced for thirty years, for you know you have got 
upon a good plan, aud intend to stick to tt; you have 
Baid, moreover, that for nearly the whole time you have 
been here, you have etgnt/ed eating and drinking, Bleep- 
ing and exercise, more than you ever did heforc. Now, 
I cannot hut say there is a little pcrvcrsencss and un- 
reasonable no sa to grumble about a few mouths more or 
less." It always ended witli a cheer up and an ackuuw- 
ledgment that I was right ; but it did not prevent bini 
retnrning every three or four days to hear the same 
remarks rcjieatcd. There are also some curious pheno- 
mena frequently occurring at water cure CBtabliBhmeats, 
"which ought not to be omitted, amongst the encourage- 
'meuts which a patient finds there, aud wliich caunot fail 
to inspire him with a thorough conviction that there is 
nothing like viakr. Some of these came under my own 
observation, and as they are really as curiouB for the 
■medical rcitder as they arc wonderful for the non-pio- 
fcBsional, I will relate one or two. 

Colonel K — -, the Commandant of Mihlary Police 
-at Milan, a fine old man, much beloved by all *vbo have 
the plcaam'c of bis aequaiulance, ciune to Graefeulwi^ 
soon after my arrival there. lie was carried up into 
hie room in the arms of his servants ; he bad not been 



54 



mSTOllY OF I'RIESSNITZ, 



^m with 

^H reco 



able to walk for a long time. It wua not a case of 
paralyeis; he could move his legs and had feeling iu 
theiu, but could nut walk. (His case I shall give in 
its proper place.) llis treatment of course went ou in 
his room, which looked out upou the court in front of 
the large house. About two months after he had been 
treated with water, one day, before dinner, his window 
was thrown o^icn, and a man was seen shouting and 
dancing, as if he were crazy, calling upon some people 
he knew in the yard, myself among the number, to 
come up to him. Wc made a rush for it, heltor skelter, 
who should get Brst, not knowing what could possibly 
be the matter. When we entered tlic room, judge the 
astonishment of all, to find that the Colonel had reco- 
vered the use of his legs ; he went on dancing, jumping, 
and embracing his friends. Friessnitz was sent for: 
when he came, though he could not help smiling at the 
singular scene that presented itself, he said, " I am sorry 
this will not last; it is only the 'had s^jj^,' which is 
gone somewhere else." We all looked a Httle chop- 
fallen at this. In the evening the legs began gradually 
to gel stiff again ; but not so bad as they were before. 
He was soon after able to walk with two sticks and to 
mount to his room with llie aid of the arm of his servant. 
Before I left he walked much better; hia appetite, 
which had been deficient for many years, was returning 
with vigoiU", and he had the fairest prospect of ultimaW 
recovery. 



naW ■ 



HIB WATER CUltH, ETC. 



Case of' Sudden Return of Hearing. ^ 

I shall give another illusti'ation equally curious. Baroo 

V , Colonel ia the Austrian Bcrvicc, whose whoit; 

family had expericQced the benefits of water, was at 
Gracfenberg with his wife and daughter. Ilis daughter 
had been given up by the whole faculty of Bruseeb, 
Paris, Berlin, and Vicnua; his wife, with all this 
travelling and anxiety, eome weeks after she had been 
at Graefenberg, and when her mind had become more 
easy, fell Into a state of typhus fever of the very worst 
deBcriptlou. (This is oftea the case when the stimulus 
of Mixiety ia suddenly taken off.) PricssnitK saw it 
coming on, and wished her to du something tu prevent 
it, but she would not listen to him, eaymg, " I am here 
for my daughter, never mind me," She recovered of 
the fever, however, by the water treatment, and con- 
tinued the cure for her general health. The daughter 
was one of the young ladies who received ttie afiec- 
tionate " Farewell — farewell for ever !" before going to 
the " water cure." By the time I am ajieakiug ofi she 
was fet and ruddy. To return tu the Baron. Nearly 
forty years i^o he had been wounded in the back of 
the head, in defending a bridge against the French — 
a gallant action, which is commemorated in an engraving 
which he shewed me. From that time he had been 
nearly deaf. He was very fond of bird-caltliing, at 
which he was a hrst-rate hand ; and as I never heard 
of his mode in England, and it may he considered 



uiBTORV OF puiessnitt;, 



curiuns hymmc of mj' readers, I will describe it, ■ 
placing the iwign, he hid himsulf near ibe place, . 
made k loud noise Tcscmbliiig thiit which is uKido 1 
th* owl when il is caught. The poor little birds, fancj 
ing iheir inidnight-enemj In tronble, or in a trap, 6ockei 
in buivlreds, not to assist him, but to peck bis life out: 
in this way he would sometimes entrap a hundred birds 
"at a sitting," selecting those he wished to keep, and, 
lotting the others off. One day when thus en)[^oyed)- 
suddenly he heard the noise of all the birds, suffitacnt 
to split his bead. .Off he ran, and when he got to his 
room, his servant seeing him in such a hurry, thou^t 
he wanted a bath, and cried out in the usual way to ti 
deaf man, so that he was obliged to (lut his fingere "JBl 
his ears. This went gradually off, until he was neari^ 
as deaf as ever. On another occasion his hearing n 
lumcd at dinner ; he bolted out of the room as if be^ 
was running for his life. He said afterwards, that the 
clatter of 300 pairs of knives and forks introduced so 
suddenly to hia attention, was more overpowering tbasl- 
a park of artillery let off at once, and without notice. 

Bcibrc I leave these general obaervatioiiB, I shall add 
a few remarks on diet, and the action of water, con- 
cluding with a hint to any of my professional ftiends 
who may Iw temi>ted to \-isit Graofenborg. Mui& e 
admire Priessnitz, Impresacd as I am with the viist g 
lie has been lustrumcnlHl in producing, both in hi^ oil 
jiractice, and by his cxuiiipic to others, it thall not i 
any way prevent my displaying any errors he may I 



HIS WATF.B CUEE, ETC. 



67 



I 



fallen into, tO' the best of my judgment. It may be 
said, that a looker-on at a game has an advaDtagc over 
■ the player, and sees pomts whicli are overlooked from 
too great intcntuess, although the player may be more 
proficient than the obHor\'ci'. I have already liiiited 
at Prieaanitz' oljstinacy about the diet, and it is besides 
but natural to suppose, from the immense number of 
patients he has to attend, combined with his extreme 
reserve, slight mistakes may occur in a few cases; The 
greatest errors in the treatment, according to my view 
of the case, exclusive of the diet, have arisen from his 
too confined notion of tlie nature and extent of 
morbid changes. But this is shewn more particulaily 
in the treatment of chronic diseases, where his attentiou 
is directed to the expelling of " bad stuff." 

Notwithstanding the stress I have laid on rational 
moderation in diet, and shall lay on air, exercise, &c., 
as adjuncts to the " water cure," still let it be understood 
they are not the essentials. The moat striking effects I 
have seen from the action of water were in hed-ridden 
patients, and othere who could not leave their rooms, 
and others who had uot been on iheir legs for ten and 
sixteen years. Water has an uclion of its own, and as 
peculiarly its own, as that of mercury, quinine, or any 
other drug. The grand distinction of the " water euro" 
from all others is, that the whole constitution is repaired, 
and all diseased slates, however complicated, rudieally 
removed, As long as anything remains wrong, water 
will not ceaae to produce evident effects; when all is iu 




fi8 



tiisToRV OF PBiBftenrz, 



H hctdthy suto, and working in bamouy, no very evi- 
denl effect can be [(crceived or produced. 

('onnt MazciiakJ, an tntimatc friend of mine, uhoee 
litlle danghtcr was cured of hydrocephalus, or water on 
the brain, when in an advanced stiite, (I mention the 
name, as most of one's water friends are too glad to bne 
these matters well authenticated, to care about their 
names appearing in print ; the present one I can answer 
for — at tbo same time it facihtates the enquiries of 
medical friends going to Graefcnbci^,) introduced me 
to a near relation — a lady very nearly seventy years 
old. She came iin<ler the care of Pritssnitz in tlie 
following state : she was completely crippled with rheu- 
matic gout ; had not been out of bed for nearly twenty 
years ; for sixteen years had bceu supported in ne»rlj 
an erect sitting posture, with pillows, being unable to 
lie <m the back, or on cither side. For seventeen years 
she had not been able to bold a pen. Priessnitz at first 
refused to undertake her case, or to submit her to die 
influences of water. But from an cxtraordinafy laie 
which she told, and the entreaties of her friends, he 
cfmscnted to try some gentle means, which were nearly 
as follows: — Every morning the up[)er part of bet 
person was gently rubbed all over for a few minutes 
with a towel moistened in cold water. She was then 
well dried, and the dress replaced. The legs and feet 
were then well rubbed iii the same way, and the same 
tiling was repeated in the evening. A bandage, well 
wrung out, of cold water, was placed round (" 



H18 WATER CUBE, ETC. 



uuvercd witli a thidt dry one, and llie same dressing 
occasiorially to the legs ; a few tumblers of water were 
dnuik duriug the day, more or less, as she felt inclmcd. 
In a few weeks a slight pain was perceptible in the 
back, and by-and-bje a boil made its appearance, 
which, in due time, dischai^ed a quantity of matter su 
offensive, that only one person could Ije induced to enter 
or remain in the room — a strong Polish servant girl, about 
twenty years old. The third day after this, the poor girl 
had the jaundice. In the course of a fortnight the old 
lady was able to eat almost anything, after years of ab- 
stinence and care. She could lie and turn about as she 
pleased ; and I saw her a short time afterwards writing 
letters, which she did half-a-dozen a day, to send to her 
kindred and friends as the greatest curiosities, and to con- 
vince them by ocular demonstration of what 1 hey other- 
wise would not have believed. Here there was not "air 
and exercise," and no particular diet. No doubt it will 
stagger a little those who think that diet, air, and exercise 
constitute the principal parts of the water cure. I have 
said they are necessary and valuable adjuncts to the cure 
of diseases by water, and will restore health atom^ in a 
variety of cases; in a variety of others they will not. I 
could give a number of illustrations even more extraor- 
dinary than this, to shew that walei' Has a made (if action 
of its mon; and I may as well mention here as anywhere 
else, A. CAUTION to those who may be labouring under 
ioaff-staadtnff chronic disease. If they apply water theui- 
eelves as laid down in books oti this mode of treatment, 



UlSTOnY OF PRtES8KlTZ, 



tliey may get thcmBcIves inlo a ijilctDina not wilW 



danger ; 



s called, vliicb, tlioiiirh nt*! 



of trifling importance by due administration of tWe 
"cure," may, if not understood l»y themselves, or those 
about them, prove dangerous, and even fatal, as has 
unfortunately been more tlian once the case. IT* 
crisis may take place in any case, but no bnmati know- 
ledge can predict, with certainty, of what kind it wid 
be. It is well, thereforej to ask beforehand, how am I 
to increase or diminish this crisis, and which will be 
best? What slmll I do if I have a "sweating crisis" 
which comes on every night in the most profuse way, 
and which I cannot stop or mirigate ? or if I have a 
slim " nenous fever crisis," which prevent* sleep, and 
will not Icayo mc night nor day ? or if a "iirine crisis" 
comes on, with immense deposits of various kinds of 
matter ? or suppose tlic skin takes ujt the action, and 
throws out matters of different kinds, which would puzzle 
a first-rate pathologist, or a skin doctor, &c. Sec, ? It 
wonld be well to ask these questions before yon begin, 
while labouring under a long-standing c/i^OTt/c disease 5 to 
treat yourselves with "simple water," which, Ets yon fiay, 
"you sometimes drink, and wash your face and hands W 
" iS/m/j/e imto-" will cure diseases beyond the reatih'itf 
any other matter or element, or any combiriation-'«rf 
matters or elements. And Pricssnitz — the gebmsl'thfe 
immortal Pnessnilz!— against all odds, and his own waul 
of elementary knowledge, has proved it over and over 



J 



Hie WATKR Crss, ETC, 



61 



,,, Is must not be forgotten, that water,, a W as a remedy, 
must nQt be.ahuaed- I am sorry to aaj ibis is too amcli 
the case with many, who fancy that ciiiuntity is every- 
thing needful, I have seen much hanii done even by 
loo much drinking, more especially at meal time, wbeu 
a very moderate quantity is siifHcIent. 

I think I hear youaay, " lamquite disappointed; I ex- 
peclpd titat I was to be able to cure myself of eoery aihnent, 
acute or chronic, fever or ijiflammation, recent complaints, 
BT those of long standing" I am grieved in being obliged 
to disappoint you, but the tnith is, it cannot be done 
alone by the patient, for it is twenty to one but that you 
would commit an error at the first step, I now hear 
you say, " What then can I do, and how far may I ven- 
tnrc ?" You can apply cold water every mornhig, either 
by the wet sheet-balh, cold bath, or shower-bath, or 
pimple ablntion ; take a quiet walk, and drink three, 
foiu", or five tumblera of water before breakfast; lake a 
fpot-batli at eleven or twelve o'clock, a tumbler or two of 
waler, and a good long walk. The fomentation may be 
.apphed during the day to the stomach, as described. 
For a cold, you can lie in the wet alieet, and be after- 
wards well rubbed in the sliallow chilled balh for five 
minutes, or, when heavy and indisposed, a good sweat- 
ing, aud a bath ; but not much more would I recommend 
to ordinary people to try themselves, This yon can do, 
. as you would take '■ two pilia over night, and a ibaugbt 
m the morning." If 1 am not vei'y much mistaken, you 
l_ will soon have plenty of clever, intelligent medical men 



«t.-. 



HISTORY OF PRIE3SNITZ, 



I 
I 



vo pill you in the way of treating jouraelves. I Iuto 
Haiti bclbre. that I was sorry to lincl in different parts o( 
the continent su many practising this method) wUo 
reidly knew little or nothing about it, bringing it inta 
unincrit£<l disrepute It is easy enough to order a 
patient to sweat and take a cold bath, a hip-bath, and a 
douche, every day. But is this the treatment adapted 
to the case ? or, supposing it to be so, how long should 
it be continued before a change is made ? I went, ac- 
companied by a friend, to an institution, beautifully 
situated and fitted up, on my way to Graefenberg; I 
Imcw little about the merits of the treatment then, ex- 
cept from books, so that I did what I was told very 
naturally ; I only remained a fortnight, but I now know 
that, if I had remained there, and gone on in the plan I 
was put upon, I shonld have received considerable in- 
jury. This I discovered on my arrival at Graefenberg 
for Prieasnitz pointed out the mistake at ooce, which, 
in the course of a few weeks, I was able to understand 
from observation and inquiry. The master of the esta- 
blishment in question had licen at Graefenberg sis 
years previously, /(w a forlniyht ; he returned, and did 
what he had imperfectly seen done, with little regard to 
age, sex, constitution, or disease, Since that time, 
Priessnilz has progressed, and greatly improved his general 
practice, the former gentleman had ittiod still; fhom thb 

SIMPLE FACT, TDAT NATURE HAD NOT INTENDED HIM FOE 

A MEDiCAi. MAN. Regularly educated practitioners have, 
very naturally, great prejudice at Jirst against so great 





HrS WATER CUBE, ETC. 



63 



I Bii intiovation as this on their accustomed modea of 
I thinking ; and, besides, a great many have a good prac- 
I tiee, which they do not hkc to give np or change, 
[ A comfortable medical practice ia a very pleasant, easy- 
going hnsiuesa, which may be rendily described ; n com- 
phment or two— a promise, and n prescription — and 
last, but not least, a guinea. This is the reason why 
there arc, as yet, so few engaged in the water cure, who 
could advance, and do it justice, and why it has felleii, in 
some instances, into the hands of impostors and unquali- 
fied persons. One of the oldest and most eminent phy- 
sicians on the continent said to me, " I wish I was a 
yoimg man again, if it was only to cultivate and advance 
this admirable system of Priessnitz. It will not engage 
us as it ought to do, until England takes it up, and then 
we shall receive it hack from yoti, and take it with an- 
other feeling." 

It is next to impossible to do more than lay down 
general niles in the treatment of any given complaint. 
The treatment must be changed &ora day to day, accord- 
ing lo the state of the patient, the nature of his disease, 
and the powers of his constitution. One day using cold 
water, sweating, and douche ; at miolher lime substituting 
the wet sheet, chilled, or tepid water, aud even some- 
times ti>av7H or /lot water, which Preisanitz has recourse 
to in rare cases, at other times doim/ nothiriff or ne.vt t» it. 
I In fiict, it resolves itself lo this : all depends upon the 
■'Jknowledgc and tact of the practitioner; and it requireB 
rthe same study and same knowledge of all diseased 




64 



HISTORY OF PRIBSSNm, 



States, the powers, propeiiies, and cumbinations of tJw 
reniociy, as in (he practice of medictue. Without this a 
few may have tlieir nervous st/stems impaired, the sAiu put 
out of order, instead of into a healthy slate, anc], by many 
stupidities / littii: aern pracllaed, find themselves 
pointed in Iheir " cure." 



Case of llypoelwndriasis. 






The following case will be interesting, as an lUostM- 
tion of the remarks 1 have been making. Thie gentle- 
man arrived at Grapfenberg a few weeks aStei tnyseli) 
and his case particnlarly attracted my Attention. He 
told me he was a military paymaster, and that for some 
shght ailments, he had taken some thousands of Moiri- 
son's pills, (It is astonishing how these pilla are taken 
on the Continent ; and I may observe, that people whose 
nerves are very strong, anil who have PEcirLiAHLv iN- 
BENSiBLE iNsiDBs, Can take them for some time, vrithoul 
the worst sympfomfi they produce becoming evident; bul 
these fortnnate individuals arc rare.) He became gra- 
dunlly worse and worse, till the tone of his stomach and 
bowels was nearly destroyed ; no action could be ob- 
tained in the latter, except by the most powerfiil mesBEL 
He had entirely lost his appetite, and was afraid of eftt- 
ing, trom the pain and uneasiness It cansed for hours 
afterwards. Added to this, the most violent palpitation 
of the heart came on, with distressing lowness of spiritB, 
which was at times so oi'erpowering, that it required alL 
his fortitude to prevent him from committing snicMe. 



ting EwicW^^B 



BIB 'WVtKi CDTIE, FTC. 



an 



' 'Onct' (laj he 'oame to my rnonii and I exnmined tiim ; 
(tbelnngsaii)! heart wei« perfectly boiuiiI. On pressing 
^deefily on different parts of the stomncli and bowels, 
^reat pain wa» catiaed, pordcnlnrly about the region and 
[ -pyloric orilicc of the stomach; in the latter tJjer<J ap- 
peared to be some hardness. I found that this process 
of pressing, though made with great gentleneas, made 
3 hands and feet t/uite cold ; the case was a clear one. 
He was ordered to go through the sweating process 
twice a day, a htp-bath, and douche, lo eat as luvch 
\ .a« he could, and wit/iout diaimctiun. At the end ul' seven 
[ lUoDths of this active treatment, he left Graelenbcrg very 
[ Jittle better. The error in this treatment was the douche, 
sweating, and diet, for which he was as unfit as luyaelf. 
j i^he misapplication arose from Priessnil?' theory of dis- 
'■eaae, which was that there were drugs and morbid 
I -*' stuff" to be got out of the system, on which depended 
I ibis ailmeints. Though not so wivitff in tite sujipusitioa in 
LfMRMy caaei, ia the one in question he was in error. His 
I 'treatment should have been, accoixling to his own shew- 
■iing in my ease, the general fomentation by the " wet 
1-sheet^" an additional hip-bath, and the warm compress 
Ltethe bowels, foot-bath, &c. Another fatal error was in 
!• &e diet ; for he stuffed enormously the most indigestible 
liinatters, iu the hope of gaining strength. Alter a dinner 
Lrof pork and " sauer kraut," salted cucmnbors, and pastry 
• a ploughman, I always, the next morning, made a 
bipoitit of couvereing with him. 1 generally fcmnd him 
holtlt^ on a beoch by himself, looking pn the ground. 



' PBlE=SNITa, 



and avoiding all intercourse. To the greeting of ^' WeJI 
how arc you to-daj?" I .at first only got agruw, and 
then followed, " You are always asking me Jiow I 
of what interest can it be to yon ? It is too bad ; a 
can find no rest in this place," Wiih a little coaxing* 
boweyer, he generally came round) and then be would 
rejute his sufferings. " Oh, I have passed n horrible 
night ! No sleep, and I was dreadfullysicJi ; such.squr, 
bitter stuff," &c. If I had said a ivord about the p^i^ 
saner kraut, and other indigestible combustibles, he wou^ 
never have spoken to me again. Thus this unfortunate 
man went on from day to day, if not a^ravaling hi?, ills, 
at all events keeping them stationary'. With a rationsJi 
system of diet, and a more appropriate ti'eatment] liiftvie 
no doubt lie might have been much relieved, tkouffh xol 
cured, for tjte organs E9BENTIAT. to u-eH-heinff were toa 
much injured hy the IMMENSE QUANTITY OF teqetaqiiS 
POISON which hud been applied to them. I could rejfitejft 
number of similar cases, ending more or less in the iSOOift 
way. I may here mention that I made it a rule (o 
inquire the morning after one of the indigestible diniMr^ 
how the dyspeptics and hypochondriacs found tbetn;i 
selves, Tlicy were invariably in a Buffering state. Byi 
some I was at last detected, and they would give me not 
answer but " Ah I I suppose you think I ate too much, 
yesterday. I won't tell you how I am." In such caaea. 
I replied, " I don't want you to tell me ; I can Bee hmr 
you are, by your moroseness, and the absence of your 
usual amiability. We will have a chat to-morrow — -i. e^ 



and 
tma, I 



UtS WATER riFIlKj V.TC, 67 

[ rfyc/n don't stiiffi^in to-day." I had committed my- 
I wlf ort first going to Gracfcnbcrg, by giving some 
i fi4iMi(Ry advice as to gourmandizing. On lliis being 
, ftpeated to Pripssnitz, (for he is told everything thnt is 
I Bfcid and done,) he said, " Eat as much as you like." 

This was told me ngain with exnltalion, and a look as 
f much as to say that I knew nothing abont it. I men- 
l lion ihia as a hint to any of my brethren who may go to 

Gi'aefenberg, Their maxim should be, " hear, sec, and 
[ ie.y nothing," otherwise their journey will be in a great 
I measure in vain, for nothing can exceed the prejudice 
[ against medical men. On the other hand, with discre- 
L t^n, they will learn and see what they will never foi^ct, 
I and add another to the disciplea of the " water-«ure." 
I As I am on the subject of hints, I will give another ilhis- 
I Iration. When I had been some time at Grnefenber^, 
I and had become tolerably au fait, popular with the 
I patients, and spoken well of by Priessnitz, as the only 
r person who had seemed to understand his cure, (iticreifi- 
f.^Ie dietu>) a Polish physician was presented to me by a 
I Bolileman of his country, requesting me to assist him in 
I his inquiries. Shortly after this, I was attending a 
L highly interesting case of fever, the progress of which 
I'he also wished to study, I made the request to the 
Ipatient, when the wife cried out, "What! that stupid 
Idoctor who laughed at the water-cure, and told Miss — — 
Mhe would get cured sooner at Berlin than at Gracfen- 
pfcitrg? Oh, no! I'll take care be docs not enter here. 
KB^ides, it's no use; he will never learn 'the cure.' 



HISTORY OF PRIESSKITZ, 



I'licMtiits says very few of tliem can." This gentleman 
having comniitlctl himself, and, from further wBOt of 
iftct, finding the mU-ee barred to him, left Groefenherg 
violently op^toHcd to the " water-cure." No one, I 
think, need hope that Prlessnilz will lend thcra a belly- 
ing hand in prt^ecniing their inquiries, though notfaiD^ 
eonid he done more easily. He has given ihe jirofeaaon 
lip for ii had job. This, in tmtb, is not to be n-ondered 
at, tor they have annoyed and persecuted him in eveiy 
way they possibly could. He now can hardly believe b 
their sincerity, even when most sincere. He says, 
" when tlicy leave this, ihey arc sure to go hack to the 
drugs." This must bo said, as long as the student pro- 
Hecntcs his inquiries without attempting to dissuade the 
patients from continuing the cure, or persuading them 
to take medicines ; ho will throw no direct obstacles in 
his way. After preventing at least twenty persons fifom 
leaving Graefenbcrg before they ought, (which he knew 
of;) af^er ibr eight months following him like his shadow, 
to prince or peasants; after taking 500 cold-baths, 400 
sit-baths ; after reposing 480 hours in a wet sheet, drink- 
ing about 3500 lumblei-s of cold water, &c., he could 
only say that I seemed to understand his cure better than 
any one he had yet observed, and that by possibility 
/ might he sincere. He never gave mc the slightest 
assistance, though solicited by some of his most sincere 
and iutimate ii'iends. As it is, I owe him much, as I 
owe for all good I may receive, however it may oome i 
but had he assisted me, it would have saved me an in- 



ms WATBB CURE5 ETC. 69 

finity of trouble^ and made me his debtor of debtors. 
But truth requires me to say, that he never has been 
too desirous that liis system should be imderstood, or 
that Mrorks should be written on the subject. I speak 
on the authority of his longest and most intimate Mends. 
When I returned to my Mends, I was so robust and 
changed, that they were surprised ; but by a variety of 
circumstances, which I need not detail, though I am in 
good health and spirits, I have not my Graefenberg 
looks, but I have the secret of putting myself in condi- 
tion in two or three weeks, if I had the time ; and what 
I have done since in travelling, &c., which has pulled me 
down, was far beyond my reach before I thoroughly 
knew the powers and properties of water. In fine, what 
I would recommend to my medical friends at, or going 
to, Graefenberg, is in the spirit of the pathetic appeal of 
the tapster, when he found himself under the hands of 
the dentist — and it is equally applicable to all knowledge 
we might wish to acquire or to extract — " Draw it 
mild." 



WATER. 



*£)eU! JQtiW oufdneue! 
SQSte t4 nti(^ bt&^enb freue 

SBom @46ncn/ SlBa^ten burc^onden -* 

una ifl aud bem SBalfei; entfprungen!! 

2Cae$ mtb bur^ bad ^i^affer ec^attenl 

Dceon 05nn un§ beln ewiged SBattcn. 

f(8enn bu m(i)t SBoUen fenbetefl/ 

^lic^t rei(^e S3&c^e [penbetell/ 

^in unb |)cr nic^t SKiffe wenbetefl 

^e @tr5me nic^t ooUenbetefl/ 

^ai xo^xtn ©ebivgen/ wad @bnen unb ^elt? 

•Du bifl'g ber bad fi-i(d)efle Eeben erb^lt — 

jDu bift'g bem ba§ fi:lfd)e(le Seben entquclUl— 



Joy ! joy ! and delight ! 

The sunbeams of gladness bright 

Wake all my being to mirth. 
All things have issued from water on earth ! ! 
All things by wateb are guarded below ! 
Ocean, thy aid and thy favour bestow. 

Sprang there no clouds from thee, 

Flowed not brooks merrily, 

Leapt not in mirthful glee 

Streams from the azure sea. 
Earth were one focus of tempest and strife; 
Thou with the force of creation art rife— 
Thou art the being, the essence of life I 

Goethe's Faust, Second Part 



WATER. 



There are very few, comparatively, who have any idea 
of the extent of the salubrious effects of water taken 
internally, or applied in different ways externally. In 
the former this arises from the custom of taking hot tea, 
coffee, wine, and sphrits, &c., from an early age. The 
long indulgence in these fictitious habits produces an 
unhealthy state of feeling, attended with the fear that 
cold water would produce unpleasant sensations, and 
some injury to the stomach; there is, therefore, a 
barrier to its use, made up of fear, dislike, prejudice, 
and custom. But when this formidable barrier can be 
leaped over, or broken down, by a little reasoning and 
reflection, after a few essays the individual finds, and is 
convinced that he has been deprived of, a great source 
of pleasure, and of one of the most powerful conducers 
to health. By the great change in the feelings, the 
greater aptitude for mental and bodily exertion, the 
marked accession of cheerfiilness and gaiety, from taking 
water, all these changes in a short time make a convert 
The relish for food, and the quantity that can be taken^ 



u 



and easily digested, the liglit ami refreshing sleep \ 
out dtEtiirbing dreams — theec, with the former, n 
him an advocate. The improved akia aoA complei 
eoiiferring the freshiiees of youth, the clear eyes, 1 
Bwcet and wholesome breath — all these, iiuited to 1 
ibregoiiig, produce a zealotia disciple, wishing others 
shtu-e Ills Iwnefils. By drinlting abundantly of ( 
water, the whole apparatus of digestion, from the teal 
to the liver, is improved, and resists decay. 

A very interesting and valuable case occurred to I 
Beaumont, an American physician. A yoimg CanI 
diaa, eighteen years of iige, was accidentally shot ; 1 
muzzle of the gun being about a yard from the 1 
side, the charge of duck shot entered in an ubliijl 
direction, forward and inward, literally blowing off t 
integuments and muscles to the fizc of a man's' ha 
fracturing and carrying away half of the sixth rib, t 
and perforated the stomach. Being in perfect heal 
the time of the accident, and judiciously treated, he g 
well, but with an opening in the stomach large enough 
to admit the whole length of the middle finger into the 
cavity. Dr. Beaumont kept him above two years, at 
considerable expense, to make experiments, and to see 
how digestion was performed, anil what changes took 
place in tlic stomach, under different circnmstances. 
The details are, of course, long ; they can be foimd in 
Dr. Andrew Combe's excellent work on the physiolo^ 
of digestion, or Dr. Beaumont's work. Dr. Combe, diff- 
cussing Dr. Beaumont's experiments, says, "The gastrin 



rs 



^H^ secretion, and tlie appeartince of the villous coat of the 
^H Btonmcb, undergo great niodificalioDs diuiug dieease, 
^H and on tliis subject also Dr. Eeauniout's observations 
^H arc highly valuable ; because, instead of merely infer- 
^H ling, as others are obliged to do, he enjoyed the privi- 
^H lege of sceinrf with his eyes what was actually going on. 
^H Id the course of his attendance on St. Martin, he found 
^V tbat^ whenever a Jiveruh state was induced, whether 
^H from obstructed perapb'ation, from undue excitement 
^H by stimnhtitiff liquors, from overloadiiuf the stomach, or 
^H from fear, angeh, or other mental emotion, depressiLig 
^H or disturbing the nervous system, the viilaiis coat became 
^^1 aemetimes red and dry, and at other times pale atid mmet, 
^H and lost altogetktf its smooth and liealthr/ appearance. As 
^H a necessary conscqncnce, the usual secretions became 
^H vitiated, impaired, or entirely suppressed; and the Ibl- 
^™ licles from which, iu health, the mucus which protcela 
the tender surface of the villous coat is poured out, 
became flat and Haccid, and no longer yielded their 

» usual bland secretion. The nervous and vascular piv* 
pillie, thus deprived of their defensive shield, were then 
subjected to undue irritation. When these diseased 
appearances were considerable, the syslem sympathized, 
and (hyness of the mouth, thu-st, (juickened pidse, and 

I other symptoms, shewed themselves; and no gastric 
juice could de procured or extracted, even on ike application 
of the usual stimulus iif/ood," This is the internal state 
in which people often feel low in spirits, &c„ inclined 
to take brandy and other stimulants, and in which all 



76 



kinds of drugs and incongruous mixtures are given. 
How difforent are the soothing and restorative effecta o£ 
water in such a state ? 

What can exceed the l>eauty, freshness, and purity' 
a glass of water taken from the spring ? It 
mawkish taste behind it, no fictitious or unpleasant 
odour. When it is taken before breakfast, after a bath 
or genera] ablution, it cleanses all the passages, puril 
ing the mouth, and filling it with sweet and plcf 
fluids, making the individual cheerful, hungr_y, 
wide awake. What a coutrast this is to creeping down- 
stairs with the eyes half-closed, huddling up to the fire, 
and swallowing scalding tea, eating a few bits of toast, 
without appetite, and requiring some relish to make 
them go down. 

This drinking cold water in the morning, dilutes the 
viscid secretions, such as bile, slimy matters, &c., that 
have collected during the night, and makes them pass 
off. The det(-rmination being already to the skin by 
the wet sheet, or sweating, and the bath, or by sinipie 
washing all over, the cold fluid being then taken into 
the stomach, at first lowers its temperature, and that of 
alt the organs contained in the abdomen, helping still 
more to lessen any irritation and heat, or undue collec- 
tion of blood in these parts. The water is rt^puOif 
absorbed by the stomach, not digested as many suppooe, 
and not a drop cscajies into the alimentary cttoaL 
When it is all sucked up by the stomach, it goes into 
the general current of the circulatioD ; mixing with the 



laiiant 
bat h I 

M 




>d, it is first carried into the lungs, and then sent 
■4n by another set of tubes, i/ie arteries, to the tips of 
I flie fingers and the points of the loes ; and every inter- 
ncdiate part feele its benefits, giving new liie and 
lactivity to everything it has come in contact with. It 
l-ifl then in great part thrown off, (mixed with waste 
l«Btters,) by the skin, in invisible steam; by the 
■ludneys, and by the breath. When a glass of water is 
l-Vpallowed, the stomach, by its motions, difliises it 
li0Ter all its Gurface before it absorbs or takes it up, just 
. you would wash the face — and it baa the same 
I Tefrcahing and beautifying efiecls, leaving it at a more 
■'natural temperature, and giving it a more healthy 
fteolovi. 

It appears almost incredible with what rapidity cold 

Lwaler la taken up by the stomach, I once, by way of 

I. experiment, swallowed thirty tumblers of water from 

lithe spring before breakfast — each a large half-pint— 

f two of which I sometimes took at once. I was nearly 

■ three houra about it. At nine o'clock I was so hungry 

that I could bold out no longer, otherwise I would have 

tried another do^en. When I went out at six, I had a 

I vet bandage on the stomach tightly applied, and co- 

liTered by a thick dry one. When I went to breakfast, 

lithe abdomen was diminished in size, for my bandage 

|,po longer stuck so close. I never enjoyed a morning's 

I Walking more, and during the day felt perfectly well. 

I'^y usual quantity was from fire to ten tumblers before 

lireakfast, two before dinner, one or two at dinner, and 



78 



two or three during the evening;' This^B aboirt tSt? 
general rule, that ought not Id be exdeedrtl dttrinrf the 
cure. At firet, when the Btomnch is much nut of order, 
and the patient has not been accustomed to drink ^vater, 
it ia well to begin as ojiadually bb he pleases. He soon 
gels to like it, not fioni thirst as ia snpposed, hut from 
its refreshing effects, just as people take wine or apirits 
without being thirsty, fo relieve a low feeling, or produce 
a tijm/ one. Often when sitting down to my bread and 
butter, milk and strawberries, with an appetite that 
would have made dry bread delicious, I conld not help 
comparing my state to that I could vividly recall, after 
taking two pills over night, and & white — no, a bl 
draught in the moming. What a contrast in & 
sense of the word — in the moral as well as the physii 
man— one as unwholesome, irritating, and depressing, 
as the other was cleanli/ refreshing and exhilarating. 

It is necessary to obsen'e, that most pcreone who' 
delicate or ailing, by getting up before their usual til 
and walking before breakfast, produce lassitude, heftd- 
ache, and other tiisagreeables for the rest of the day; 
this state never takes place if part of what I have de- 
scribed ia done beforehand, and followed by ii few 
tumblers of water. 

The majority of people in large towns, from tbeir 
mode of life, of eating and drinking, over-exertion and 
many nnnatnral habits, which would sooner be fatal, 
were it not for the wonderful power of the machine to 
aeoomtnodate< itself, and resist such a complication 



help 
afte^^l 

sing, I 



M 



rv&rtg to deetro^ it, have their stomachs more or less in 
I a. disordered ;State, which water woiiid rectify. Aber- 
I ftethy went so far ns to say, tliat in London there was 
I pot a ^r/eff(/y healtliy inhabitant, and from what I ohT 
I served during many years of practice, I cannot say that 
I i# exa^erated in hia stateraenL However, this state 
I of thiiigs admits of great amelioration, and by very easy 
I and simple means— the judicious use of water. 

. ,In 'fine, there ia no ngent applied to th« human hodj', 
extern^ly or internally, that has such inflnence in 
awakening all the vital powers to their greatest i:estoi:a> 
live capabilities, in arresting the progress of disease, oi' 

! preventing, when inevitable, a ftital termination, as pure 
epid water. It is the most powerful therf^wulJcat agent 
we possess, the most manageable in its application, the 
most easily obtained, and the most cniain in its results, 
So varied are the modes in which it can be applied, that 
there is no remedy that can be made to produce so 
many diversilied and opposite efTects ; a stimiiLint, a 
sedative, a diuretic, a sudorilic, a derivative, &c., auil 
a cleanser and restorative in the fullest sense of the 
terms. Unchaining all the powers of the constitution, 
giving nature a genial impetus, and leaving uncurbed 
her desire and efforts to heal ; and all this without the 
I necessity of straining any individual function ; and after 
I its most mighty results in the most acute and dreaded 
Vdi*eages, leaving behind no trace of its operation, no 
I mark or after-suffering, I o point out where or how its* 
wer had been exercised — a concjueror without blood- 




shed — the giver of soiinil 

tribHte — A DIVINE AND TJNIVEH3A1- REMEDY ! UnivetSal 

in ii3 application — iiniversall}' dispenstJ for iLe use of 
all mankind — and DJ davs to Comp., destined to be 

lINIVEHBALT,y PLACED AT THE HEAD OF ALL, 



nil constitutions niihout levying ti 




THE SWEATING PROCESS. 

Thi9 is effected in a very easy and simple 
The bedding i» removed, and a blanket of the 
size is spread ont on the maltross. The patient lying 
down at full length, ia enveloped in it as closely as pos- 
sible, and so as to fit well about the neck and feet. 
Tlie best covering over this is a small featjier-bed, which 
mnst be tucked in about the neck and shoulders, and 
the way down to the feet. Jt is well to elevate the 
as high as the patient finds it convenient, or coml 
able. In this state he is left till perspiration comes OD. 
It is then allowed to continue for a longer or a shorter 
time, according to circumstances. It generally takes 
two or three hours before perspiration begins; but it b 
a good plan when it is alow, after the first hour, to begin 
rnbbing the hands gently against each other, and op 
and down the sides, doing the same with the feet, but 
not 90 as to fatigne, or affect the breathing. As tfae 
packing-up takes place at four in the morning, not to 
lose any part of the day, the patient has getierally li 



rhich I 

M 



J 



THE SWEAIVKO PROCESS. 81i 

goodi^>sleep li»F«n hour cnr two. When perspiration haa 
faii4y eet^in^ the window is thrown i^n^ a(id5if]K>mtiaie 
to time, a wine'-glf^sful or two of cold water is given to . 
drink. When it is considered that sufficient perspirat^ 
tionbas taken plaee, the bed and blanket are thrown 
off, and the patient steps into a bath, (if it be in hia. 
room) containing about a foot of cold water, where he 
is well washed and rubbed, assisting himself as much as 
possible. Before sitting down in the bath, it is well, as 
a general rule, to have a bason of cold water at the side, 
in which he just gives his hands, face, and breast a rub.* 
When the large bath is used, the patient walks to it still 
enveloped in the blanket, a cloak thrown over if neces- 
sary ; here he plunges in at once, if it is large enough. 
Sometimes it is necessary to have two baths, one witli 
cold, the other having water with the chill taken off. In 
this case, he enters first into the warmer bath^ and after 
a good rubbing, transfers himself quickly into the colder 
one ; where the same thing takes place for a minute or 
two, returning again to the warmer one. Where the 
douche is in the house, it is sometimes made use of in- 
stead of the bath ; I doubt its great utility. After all 
these processes, he dresses quickly, and goes out to walk 
for an hour or longer, drinking from time to time a 
tumbler of water. 

This made of producinff perspiratioriy followed by the 
cold bath, was at first thought the greatest discovery, 
and the most essential modification of the treatment in 
the water cure. Putting the system through a violent 

G 



82 



THE SWEATlNfi PHOCESe. 



purgation by tlie skin, eti'engtlianiiig thm again, and the 
wliole syalem by the baLb, was considered by Priessaiu 
und his pariisana so powerful, simple, and hiirmleus ao 
ojienvlion, that no diseased Btatc could resist it. For a 
long time this went on, and although, in many ci 
the results answered their expccttttions, in many ot 
some mischief nn<l (U^ip[>ointinent took place Prii 
niu, however, was too keen an observer, not to see in 
the end that he had been mistaken in this. There is 
now a numerous class of patients in which he does not 
use it, but he has not yet made nil the reformation that 
be will make, 1 think. Not so, many of bis imitators, 
who continue to this tlay to practise the erroi-s, which 
be has been gradually removing for the last threi 
four years. Conscious of the errors he has 
into, reasoning always, he is cautious in givii 
deci<Ied opinion on any point, having learnt from 
rience that errors arc more or less the lot of 
system, and that an approach to perfection is only 
gained by constant thought and exertion. But a strange 
foible and contradiction in such a man is, that he does 
not like to be reminded of the change in his practice. 
This application of the cold bath after a profuse perspira- 
tion, is thought by the many, and even by most medical 
men, to be highly dangerous; but, in fact, there is 
nothing more innocent, or exempt from danger. It is 
not as dangerous or disagreeable "as two pille oyer 
night, and a draught in the morning." The practice of 
taking a cold bath aiicr sweating is of very andeot dtlte, 



which ]. 

■ee or : 

4 



THE SWEATING PROCESS. 



I 'IlAving been practised by the Russians and other 
i^northern nations from time immemoriat, but with this 
rimporfani difference — that they produced the sweating 
' by ihe application of hot vai>our. This makes a great 
I difference from producing it by the effort of the body, 
['Rnd the concentration of animal heat; one is much 
e tlebililatinff than the other, and the re-action afier 
I the bath is not so good or permanent. Added to this, 
'there is the great objection of taking hot vapour into 
hthe hings. I took three-dozen Russian baths running, 
[ for experiment, and I am convinced of the great ditfer- 
The safety of tliis proces.^, (the contrivance of 
I which is due to Priessnitz) is owing to tlie cahn and ab- 
B of irritation in all the internal oi^ans ; the fresh 
I ur being inhaled by the hings, and the cool liquid being 
I introduced into the stomach, both of which increase the 
r determination to the skin, and the sweating, when it has 
I ©nee commenced. When the body is in a state of 
I pers}>iration, heated and excited by dancing, walking, 
I ^nging, or talking, there is nothing more dangerous 
I than drinking cold water, or entering n cold bath. We 
have numerous examples of the fatal effects of this im- 
prudence. At Naples, during the extreme heat, and 
while the body is in a state of jwrspi ration, one observes 
.. the inhabitants drinking iced water freely, at all the 
I comers of the streets, but the [tcrspiration they are in is 
a great measure a passive one, arising from, and kep/ 
I up by the heated air. A Polish gentleman told me tfiat 
I a countryman of his, a young physician, having heard 
G 2 




84 



TOE SWEATtNO PflOCESS. 



from so many quarters Ihnt Fiiindredfl wf re in llie t 
of laking llie colil \a.l\ts in a stale of perspiration, s 
a long ride, liretl anil wet with iierspiralion, he went 
and bathed in a river ; he was altai:l(eil witli apoplexy, 
which carried him off a few days afterwards, shewing 
that he did not understand, or was not aware of, (he 
different slate the body is in, according to the mode of 
producing the perspiration. Tliere is the same ohje 
tion to the cold bath after any Kiidorific medicine, 
splration once set in, is allon-ed lo continue from'*^ 
period of half an honr to three hours. As a general 
rule, this transpiration must he put a stop to, as soon a 
the patient feels a sense of fatigue, and before any torn 
ing of debility comes on. 

Sometimes the perspiration is so profuse, and alloxi'^ 
to continue so long, that it goes through the mattrnss 
and forms a pool under the bed. It would be but na- 
tural to suppose that this process, continued day after 
day for months together, would cause great debility, and 
pnll down tlic individual to " the shadow of a shade ;" 
but such is far from being the ease in the majority of 
instances, where it is proper it should bo used. Prince 

L told me that he bad gone through this procete 

daUy for eighteen months. When he commenced, he 
was weak, reduced, and in a deplorable state of health, 
with a leg doomed to amputation by all the first sni^ 
geons in Europe. At the time I was speaking to hin, 
(and he was still continuing the treatment,) he was is 
robust health, and in a condition to excite the envy bfl|U 



>e envy bftjjiH 



THR SWEATING PROCESS. 85 

firgt-rate pugilist. (His case I shall give in the course 
of the work.) 

In most cases, where there is much nervous debility 
or a tendency to hypochondriasis, where there is much 
determination of blood to the head, or the existence of 
cl^ronic inflammation on the digestive mucous mem- 
brane, or the alimentary canal, or any of the internal 
organs, the sweating must not be practised, or with great 
care and discrimination, and only at intervals. Where 
these contra-indlcations do not exist, and the sweating 
still produces a loss of flesh, or an increased state of irrl- 
tabiUty, and when the patient does not feel well, and 
obtain full reaction after the bath, in such cases it is ad- 
visable to discontinue it. It is sometimes necessary to 
apply a wet compress on the forehead before and during 
the perspiration, changing it from time to time ; and 
there are also cases where the patient is made to sweat 
in the wet sheet, but they are rare ; and when it is 
thought necessary, it is generally better to omit the 
operation, for it shews some contra*indication. When- 
ever there is the least tendency to fever, where the 
symptoms of a cold or influenza are coming on, the 
sweating must not be attempted: it generally aggra- 
vates all the symptoms. In these states the sweating 
must be replaced by the wet sheet. I have observed that 
those whose skins are white and delicate, persons who 
have much fat, the gouty and rheumatic, sweat easily, 
and in great abundance. On the other hand, where the 
temperament is phlegmatic, where there is a tendeqcy to 



89 



TUE SWEATING PKOCEBB. 



piles, ur coDgcsliua of the ubdutiitnal viscera, it is not ■ 
easy. SumetiiDcs the perspiration is partial, not appeajj 
ing at all on certain parts ; this arises from the cxisteDCI 
of diseased actiuD, or the accumulation of morbid matbl 
in the part. When this is discovered, it is necessarj, [ 
viously to cnvclopmg the patient in the blanket, to 
apply a compress or bandage, wrung out of cold water, 
to the part. With the repetition of this process, great 
changes take place ; at first the perspiration is Hmall in 
quantity, clear in its nature, and difficult to be produced ; 
it becumes profuse, and impregnated with the most dis- 
agreeable odours, viscid and glutinous, of a dark yellow, 
and even brown colour, and soiU', fetid &c. in il 
Sumetiincs there is no mistaking the smell of sulphoi 
al others very like what is produced by mercurial s 
vation. When these niurbid phenomena appear, 
perspiration may generally be considered critical. As^ 
general rule, where there is no evident reason why it 
should not be used, sweating, followed by the cold bath, 
is not debilitating ; what is lost in one way is repaired 
in another. The appetite is so much increased, and the 
functions of the digestive oi^ans so improved, that more 
healthy fluid is formed than is thrown out. Fat is re- 
placed by hard elastic flesh, and languor and debility 
give way to a state of cheerfulness and activity. 




THE COLD BATU. 

Before entering into the subject of tke cold batb, as 
Qsed in the water core, I shall offer a few obuervatious 
on general bathing. The use of cold batliing as a remedy 
in disease, and as a preservative in heiilth, is knowu to 
a great many, 1 may say to every une. But the idea is 
generally associated with that of sea bathing, the salu- 
tary etfeets being considered by the majority to Ijc owing, 
in a great meaeure, to the salt wiUi which the water is 
impregnated. Though I am not prepaied to deny alto- 
gether that the saline particles have any beneficial effeete, 
I am, nevertheless, of opinion tJmt, iu most eases, pure 
water is better. Any iniluencc the salt may have, is so 
slight, that it can in no way account for the happy re- 
sults of the sea bath in some cases, or the prejudicial 
effects in others. 

There are many evident reasons why the full benefit 
is seldom obtained In the lii'st place, tliere is a want of 
regularity iu the time when the bath is taken, defiending 
oilen on the tide ; the duration of the batli is also fre- 
quently a matter of caprice with the bather. Added lo 
these, there are great numbers who seek this remedy, 
who are not in a state to enter into cold water without 
previous preparation. How many do wo find complain- 
ing after the bath, of headaclie, lassitude, and indiges- 
tion, for the rest of the day. This evidently shewn that 
mure harm than good bus l>een done, and that tlierc is 
something which has prevented the hath " iigreeing" with 



88 



THE toLD BATH, 



tbe patioiit. There has hccn a wnnl of proper " reac- 
tion," arising from derangcniqnt qr dise^e iu the internal 
organs ; ajitl it follows, ihnt the morbid condition will be 
added to, each time that tbcsc Fymptoms are reproduced. 

Previously to taking a cold bath, after the method of 
the water cure, (except in rare cases,) the internal orgiins 
are relieved by copious perspiration, or the surface of 
the body tempered by lying in the wet sheet. Any 
feverish stale, visceral congestion, or irritation, is thus 
lirst relieved, and the determination is already towqrd 
the surfiiee. In this state the nervous system receiya 
genial shook from the cold Huid, reaction is cooipl^ 
and the patient, instead of being doll, heavy, and suSer- 
ing, is gay, buoyant, and full of pleasant sensations, suc- 
ceeded by a healthy ap|>etite and easy digestion. 

Tiie batli varies iu temperature, according to tbe state 
or strength of the patient, or tbe time it may be neces- 
sary ho shuidd remain in if. At the beginning of tlie 
cure, most patients begin with a bath where the cbill is 
taken oft' tbe water, contenting themselves with this, or 
goiug from this into the cold one ucar which it is placed, 
and returning again into the warmer, thus sectmng a re- 
Imn of the circulation to the surface. 

It is of great use to see the palieul in the balli ibr die 
first time, to observe the elfect it has upon him, and to 
see the state of the skin on the arms and legs, neck, or 
back. When a person has been accustomed to obsecve 
the akin narrowly, it gives considerable iusight, when 
acted upon by water, iuto the general state and streagi^ 
uf the cunstitutlou. 




89 



THE SHALLOW BATH. 

This IS a bath containing from six inches to a foot of 
water, and used in the bed-room ; it may be cold, chilled, 
tepid, or warm, according to circumstances. It is not 
as powerful in one respect as the large cold bath, but 
from the length of time it may be applied it may be 
made more powerful ; as a common morning or evening 
bath, the patient remains in it from three to ten minutes, 
is well rubbed, and has once or twice water poured over 
his head and shoulders with a basin ; he should assist 
in the rubbing, washing the face well, and lifting the 
water, with the hands, on the head at intervals. This 
is the kind of bath that is so useful, and employed by 
Priessnitz in the treatment of fevers and inflammations, 
and certain kinds of crisis; the duration of the bath in 
such cases being indefinite. It has a great advantage 
over the hip or sitz bath in the treatment of acute dis- 
eases, and is now generally used by Priessnitz in pre- 
ference, for it is found to answer better for several 
reasons. From the sitting position in which the patient 
is placed, the feet as well as the hips are in the water, 
and the former have great sympathy with, and power 
over, the great nervous centres of the head and digestive 
organs ; the patient is at the same time more manage- 
able. There is another great advantage from being able 
to apply the water, by rubbing, to the whole surface, 
thus equalizmg the circulation and preventing a chill in 



yO THE IlIP OR eiTZ BATli. 

any part; the circulating fluid throughout jb 
(liiickly acted upon, and any undue autioii in the hcadifl 
chest prevented, at the same time that the detetl 
nation is still greatest toward the hips and lower 4 
tremitics. 



TEE HIP OR SITZ BATU. 

Tbia is taken in a tub, ctintaioiug suHicicut water 
reach, when seated, up to the navel, the circumference 
being sufficiently great to admit of free motion of the 
arms. 

The cold hip bath forms an important part of 
general treatment by the water cure. It enters into 
treatment of all chronic diseases, being particularly 
dressed to the abdominal viscera aud digestive orgs 
it bab, at the same time, though not so directly, a 
powerhil effect on the heart, lungs, and brain. This 
bath is generally taken at eleven or twelve o'clock, so as 
to give|time for a walk, and a complete re-action, befwe 
dinner ; it lasts, in ordinary cases, from fifteen minutes 
to an hour. During the time that the patient is IQ the 
bath, it is necessary to rub the abdomen, first with one 
hand and then with the other; it increases the re-actioD, 
and adds very much to the efficacy of the bath. It is a 
powerful derivative and antispaEmodic, producing a great 
determination of blood to the hips and skin of the 
abdomen ; it relieves tbe stomach and Uver of say. 



mce 

I 
the I 

ad- 1 




11 E HIP OR ( 



most 
her 



undue oppression, and by its stimulating and tonic pro- 
perties improves the appetite and powers of digestion ; 
it increases the [Teriataltic motion of the intestines ; it 
removes fiatulencc, rolic, apaams, and vomiting of the 
most violent nature. These curative effects arc often 
uced in a few minutes ; I have seen desperate cases 
'here ease was at once obt^ned; it is almost incredible 
the short space of time in which this is sometimes 
effected. It is a powerful derivative in congestion of 
the brain, headache, different afiections of the eyes; it 
its as a tonic, and restores the tone of the generative 
Item in a marked manner; in all diseases of the womb 
id derangements of its functions it is one of the most 
lergetic and valuable remedies we possess, when judi- 
msly used, relieving all pain id a few minutes, and, 
'lien combined with the general treatment, acting per- 
inenlly in relieving engorgement of this organ, and 
ically curing the first stages of scirrhus, mauy inter- 
;ing examples of which I have vritnessed and noted. 
dysentery its action is equally good. The Marquis 
and his tutor were at Cracuu, where tluB disease 
fas carrying off great numbers ; the latter visited a 
lend, who died of it, and in two days afterwards he 
attacked himself^ He immediately put himself in 
the post for Graefenberg, and he told me he "never 
knew what real suffering for twenty-four hours was be- 
fore." On his arrival, Priessnitz was immediately sent 
for, who ordered a chilled sitz bath, which immediately 
gave hiin relief; they were continued, and repealed 




TUE Uir OR 61T7, BATU. 



every six hours for the first day, and twii^e ihe sewmd 
day ; the third day lie was, as rogardqd afly paip or, in- 
convenieiicc, (^uitc well, beiiig able tu use active esei- 
cisc and cal heartily. 

Some time iigo, this balU was used by PricssnitK iu 
the Ireatment of indammatiuu uf tbc lungs and pleurisy, 
ague, &C. ; but now, in the majority of eases, ho usee 
tbc shallow bath. 

At the commencenunt of the treatment of eliruaic dis- 
eases, the temperature is raised from sixty lo eighty 
degrees Fithrenheit. 

The first eontact with the water is ralhcr disa^eeable, 
but it eooti gives way to a more pleasaut fceliag, aqd 
the sensation of ehill goes off ; the water in the bath be- 
comes every minute wariner, there being a strong cur- 
rent of caloric from the whole system lo the parts placed 
in the hath ; before the end of half an hour a powerful 
re action eoramenccs, the hips becoming red and tume- 
fied. It is a remark which I have heard mauy make 
who have used this remedy for some months, that the 
muscles of the hips become greatly enlarged and mucli 
increased in hardness. During the continuance of this 
bath, there b considerable absorption of the water lakes 
place. All hypochondriacs and dyaiieptica have told me 
that during the time they were in the sitz both "tliey 
found their iuleileet more clear, and enjoyed a greater 
command of thought;" iu fact, that it was "the only 
time when they felt tbcir heads quite tree." The rc- 
freshuig effects uf this local bath are increased by diink- 



' * TftE •VTET'SHlifeT. 93 

Itig^ tuitlMef 'bf WAt^t sl6^1y dnriilg the sittiiig. It has 
attbthef bilkio^iis Mfec^t Which I shaJl ihentioii ; it imme- 
diately ah^tiS'kbour pains, and it M^ be^tl used by 
Priessnitz for this purpose in cases of protracted labour. 
A My of the highest rank at Friwalden told nie that in 
hfer'^feVemth' confinement she was delivered with ease and 
f^dlity with only tw6 pains, the preceding ones being 
immediately stopped by using the bath; during the ih- 
tdi'Vals' ^h6 slept souhdly. The case was of an int^^est- 
iAf^iiature, and I merely mention it now as an ieffect of 
the hip bath ; when properly used, it prevents mis- 
€fkMk^i and' rdi^ves the sickness which accompanies 
'the first periods of uterogestation. 

.(1 n !i • ■ ' • I ■ ■ 

..)....)• - • • ' • ■ 

! . ■^ ■ . ■ ■ I 



• • /' 



I I I • I I I 



THE WET SHEET. 



'The idea of lying in a wet sheet staggers people mofe, 
I ^ find; than any part of the water cure. There are 
^ome, indeed, who can imagine that water has some 
vittues, notwithstanding that it is "ow/y simple watery 
that tlv^ 'sometifnes drinhy and wash their face and hands 
in;*^ but this strange idea of a wet sheet brings with it 
visions of damp beds, wretched inns, colds, rheumatism, 
lumbago, and death. I must confess that this is very 
natural, for a tvet sheet and a damp sheet sound vel^ much 
like each other — a distinction without a differ^tice ; but 
notwithstanding the apparent puzzle, the Wi^t she6f v^ill 



04 



THE WET SHEET. 



^H servant cot 

^^ft bedding is 



remove and cure all tlie effwts of the " damp riieet," or 
sheets. Wlicn a person lies idl ni^ht In damp sbeets, 
being at the same time more or less deranged in his in- 
ternal economy, there is great danger that illness in 
aotne shape or other will \>e the reBult j Ihe equilihriuni 
of the vital functions has l)een interfered with, the in- 
sensible perspiration checked, and the nervous system 
put into an imcomfortable and irritated state, Priessnitz 
thinks (for a friend of mine asked him the question'] that 
the alkali used in the washing has something to do with 
the unpleasant consequences; but there are sufficient 
reasons, added to those above mentioned, to account for 
the danger of sleeping in damp sheets, without the one 
mentioned by Priessnitz, even supposing it had anything 
to do with it. The wet sheet used as a remedy is some- 
thing very different li-oin a damp one ; the one is daw 
fferous, the other a " life preserver." 

It ia an application which has often, and will fidi oft 
again, save many children's tears, many a father's grief, 
and mother's lamentation. 

I shall now descril>e how it is made and applied, and 
its effects. A strong linen sheet is dipped in cold water, 
and wrung till no more water can be expressed without 
difficulty. At Graefenljerg they have a good plan of 
doing this : the sheet ia thi'own round a pole, or round 
rail, and the two ends meeting, it is easily twisted into a 
cord, and the water wrung out ; when this 13 done, the 
servant enters the room, and the patient jumps up; the 
bedding is thrown off, and a large blanket laid out 011 



TUE WET SHEET. 



95 



e xaattram ; on this the sheet is smoothly placed. The 

B-^tient, lying down full length, nearly on his back, with 

his head aa high as he pleaacs on the pillow, has the sheet 

wrappedroumlhiin.fittingclosejiistabove the collar bones, 

.,,j)n<l down to the leet, which are inchided ; the blanket 

1 then quickly applied, by drawing Brat one side and 

Ljtucking it in well about the ncek, under the shoulder, 

K]Wid round the legs, and then the other aide over in the 

lynie way as hiul been previously done with (lie sheet ; 

l|A light feather or down bed is then placed over all, and 

Ljiicll tucked in from the neck to the feet. In this state 

L^e patient is allowed to remain for half, three quartet's 

lil^an hour, or an hour. For about two niinuteii the sen- 

■lAfttion cannot be called very agreeable, hut it goes off 

very quickly, and then it is anything but disagieeable, 

often very pleasant, producing a very soothing and 

calming effect. None of the heat of the body being 

iftble to escape, it is at first rapidly taken up by the cold 

Lsheet ; if in a few minulea the hand be passed over the 

I body and then applied to the sheet, the former will be 

lund to be cold and the latter quite warm. Matters 

I are now changed— it is a cold aiirf'ace, and a warm sheet, 

L,9ndB0 the struggle goes on between the two, till both 

h:fxe warm ; when this takes place, the patients take the 

[j cold or chilled, the half or full, bath, as may be, dress 

L quickly, tiun out for a walk of an hour or so, and drink 

kpome tumblers of water, "and then to breakfiist with 

>. what appetite they have," The alderman that offered a 

■ ragged hoy a guinea for his appetite would have given a 



d what WMld b^ 


h»e 


md 


rem, ihc 


ih-sh 


eisl.t 


o'clod: in 


the 



linndrGi) fur siirli a one ns tbis, and 
said Id the (juflrt of stTawbcmcs 
German rolls nm\ biitler at 
momulg? 

IndepeiMlcnlly of ihecalminp effect that ibis tuoile of 
applying ft wet sheet has on the nervous system and the 
interna) organs, it has a great power in 'improving the 
lone and texture of the skin, increasing ilg re-active 
poiver, and lessoning the nnfavonrabJe influence tliai 
cold and dump, or sudden changes of tempercttui'e have 
upon it. Tiie cold liaih is much more agreeable, and 
taken with much less reluctance afler the wet sheet, for 
it remoTcs that state of tlie snrface which ppotbices a 
sense of ehtll or a slight shudder on the application of 
cold water ; it jircvents ttat dry or roni»h state of the 
skin which sometimes takes place from applying ' cold 
water frequently in the day and for a length of time. 
After a long journey, or travelling day and oigbt, a wet 
sheet and cold bnth remove every symptom of fatigue, 
and any disposition to cold or other inconvenienca : in- 
duced by ex]H)Sure, &c. ; all this can be dune la On 
hour anywhere, and the individual fmds himself leno- 
vated, and in a iit state to undergo any exposure; or 
exertion. Afler a feverish night, awaking with hend- 
ache, malaise, or in what is called a state highly bilious, 
(sometimes from bills, which, Uke the ducks', are to be 
provided for,) let this process be gone through, using at 
first a shjillow bath, with ten inches of water, at eighty 
degrees Fahrenheit, and a good nibbing for five or ten 



THE WET SUEET. 



97 



siimites; utd wtien the individual slls down to breakfast 
with a keen appetite, gay and pxhilaratcd, he will 
acknowledge tliiil the wet sheet is worthy of all praise 
and rememljrance, and beats the " two pills over night 
;«k1 the dianial draught in the morning" clean out uf the 

■ In the eruptive feversof children, nothing can be more 
admirable than the offecta of the wet sheet — in scarlet 

■fever, measles, and smnll pox, in ga.';lric fever, or a. tendency 
to convulsions, — in fact, in all their indispositions it is a 

'perfect tafegnnnh An erroneous imprcBsion prevails 

that it would drive in the eruption ; the effect is pie- 
cisely the reverse, it brings all matlera to the surface 

■with a e«ytfunty and iiromptness that is unequalled, and 
its own alone. 

' When there is great heat on tbe skin, from fever or 
internal inflammation, the wet sheet is changed ns often 
sa it becomes quickly warm, sometimes as often as 
fifteen or twenty times before the patient is put into the 
bath ; but all this, uf course, depends upon the symptoms. 
It is a powerful antiphlogistic remedy, and, as I have said, 
posse,%es at the same time a sedati^'c, soothing and 

'Soporific property, calming the pulse, removing feverish 
heal from the surface, and allaying pain and irrita- 
tion. 

I The application of the wet sheet as n remedy I con- 
'sider as one of the most valuable discoveries that has 
been ever made in the treatment of disease, wltetlier we 

I look at it in its admirable eftecis, or the extensive range 



i to ^HBn it Vi^ BB 1[ppSta vita 



bnefiL 

Tbemait tdAB JSBoa/fwrjm dot to PnttmuUwitittiKa 
tmj iiiBiliiilil'iiMi, waA had he cUbs to do farther origi- 
■daali^ dan dam it B enuo^ to cam &» him die 'l»anlftt 
of all ihoae who hare experienced its benefits, and 
the lianuuii whh which he will be recoembered b^ 
pcKerity. 

Manj ippue g that be bh npoa this oorel applicatiioa 
bj accideni — I doa*t think bo. I beliere he anired at it 
by a regular coarae of iiiductiye reasoiuDg. The wM 
corapresB applied tu local injuries, to pans ioQamed ez- 
tenullj^, tu diseased skin, and urer the seat of internal 
inflaminatioii, he had long o^ed, before be thoogbt of 
applvii^ the same remedv in a more extcnsire fbrni ; 
^tplied k>caUv, he observed that it relieved the ports 
from heat and p^n, extracted morbid secretions, and 
produced the tooet aalutarf effects. Obserring the liol 
and dn- skin, the accompanying feeling of weariness mid 
often of pain in fever, be must have said (o Iiimselli 
why not apply the same remedy to the whole body which 
1 lind so sen-iceable when i^lied to local parts labour- 
ing under heat, pain, &c. ? He tiicd it — and when he 
saw tbe result of the operation of the wet aheet in the 
first case of fever, I can easily imagine him to have been 
so delighted as to have cried out like Archimedes, 
" Eureka 1" For a long time he only applied it to feven, 
but latterly be discovered that it was a valuable remedy 
in tbe treatment of chronic diseases; tbe use of it in 




THE WET SHEET. 



ffibse states, after a time opened his eyes r 



E fully t. 



abuse which had been committed with the sweating 
process, more particularly when he found that in many 
cases the crisis was produced more quickly, and that the 
recovery was more complete and rapidly produced by 
the wet sheet than by subjecting the patient to undue or 
unnecessary sweating; wo find, as we go on, that too 
luch purging of any kind is bad, whether it be by the 
,n or by the bowels. 

Most observers who visit Gracfcnbei^ for a short time, 
and this is unfortunately the case with them all, go 
away with but an imperfect knowledge of this important 
Lcation of the cure, the wet sheet. What strikes 
im most, and what they hear most about, is the 
sweating, followed by a cold bath. And those who 
visited Graefenberg some years ago, to learn and judge 
of the syslcm in four or Jive days — or those who practise 
le water cure, as many do in Germany, from mere hear 
iy, or from books full of errors, — and without knowing a 
rope of the ship, or what sail will come tumbling about 
their ears when they let go one of those ropes, — are stiU 
ignorant of the morbid states in which the wet sheet 
should be applied, and of its vast importance in the 
treatment of chronic diseases. 

There are many cases where there is so great an ex- 

if internal disease, or where the powers of the 

Item are so low, as not to admit of the application of 

ivet sheet, as I have described. In these cases it is 

used at all, or only partially. When such is the 



unr 
K^u 

^\ 

and 
away v 

Knodifii 
^mem 

vis 




loo 



TUE WET SHEET BATH. 



case, the feet are not included in the sheet, in others 
the arms are ulso left out, and so on; these slight 
changes niukc a great difference in the effects," 



THE WET SHEET BATH. 



,gM| 

I 



Tliis is nsed lis follows; — The sheet is steeped in coM 
water, and wrung just eufiiciently to prevent its drip- 
ping. In this state it ig thrown over the patient, who, 
embracing the fore parts with his arms and bandf^ 
commences rubbing his chest, face, and fore part of the 
person, at tlie same time tliat the attendant pursues the 
same process on the back, loins, and lower extremities. 
Tliis may be continued for two or three minutes, or 
more, when it is replaced by a dry sheet, when the 
same thing takes place, til! the patient is well dried. 
This is an excellent portable bath, and very useful as a 
daily ablution, and very convenient in travelling. It is 
always followed by a pleasing and general warmth, ap- 
proaching a glow, and has great advantages over the 
usual mode of washing. By its daily use, it renders the 
surfiice Ics.'j sensitive to changes of temperature, and re- 
moves (lie disjTOsition to take cold. After the first in- 

* With llie vet shct't, cold bath, and good water to drink, a man -who 
does uotlilie ecrilibling, and vlio has not been accustomed to il, ma; write 
a work likf Ibe present in thirleen dajs, and do many olhet iLingeWtlie 
mme lime, wiihout being mnch (aligned. 



THE WET ^ANJ)Aa£J, OB COMPRESS. 101 

st^^t; i]t is anything but a disagreeable application. It is 
uipqd in the watei: core as a preparative, in cases of great 
debility and in bed-ridden patients, &c. 

In cases of lethargy^ or where the nervous energy is 
exhausted, it is a valuable remedy, applied every half- 
hour, or oftener. 



THE WET BANDAGE, OR COMPRESS. 

This application is of two kinds — one , in which the wet 
linej3, when applied, is left exposed to the air, produc- 
ing a cold or a cooling sensation, by the free evapora- 
tion of the moisture which it contains, or by renewing it 
frequently. The other, from which the water is more 
completely wrung out and carefully protected from the 
air by a covering of dry linen. This is a warm applica- 
tion, all free evaporation being prevented. When once 
heated by the skin, it remains at the temperature of the 
part to which it may be appUed. 

The first of these, or the coM fomentation, is used when 
there is active, superficial inflammation going on. It 
reduces the heat, and diminishes the quantity of blood 
sent to the part. It is applied to the head when there 
is a determination of blood, inflammation, or delirium^ 
It is assisted by the partial baths, and wet sheet. During 
the sweating process, it is useful when there is great 
fulness, or determination of blood to the head, in com- 



102 



THE WET BANDAGE, 



pound fractures, aud all cases where a lessening ut'actv 
or the |)revctitiuii uf inflammation is indicalcd. 

The second, or warm Jomenlation, is the mo8tsoothin| 
application that can be applied to the external sentient 
surface. In wounds, and other injurieE, in ulcers, &c, 
it has the most healing influence of any appUcati) 
known. 

It was in a great mcasuTC by using their " charmt 
water" in the two modes I have here mentioned, that 
charlatans made the number of " mlraoulous cures' 
read of iu past ages. 

Dr. Macartney, neaily thirty years ago, was the 
in Great Britain to call attention to the admirable 
effects of water, applied in this way — he called it his 
water dresBing. Liston of London, and Syniei 
Edinburgh, have adopted it. 

The warm fomentation i» used applied to the 
dom'en, in the treatment of nearly all chronic diseases, 
more particularly where there is diseased action going 
on in the liver, stomach, and bowels, or in the large 
ganglionic nerves behind the pit of the stomach. It is 
used in the following way — A bandage sufficiently broad 
to reach &om the pit of the stomach, to an inch or two 
below the navel, and long enough to meet when paesed 
round the abdomen ; after being dipped in cold water, 
it is wrung as dry as it can be ; over this, a dry bandage 
of thick linen or cotton is applied, sufficiently tight to 
lie comfortable to the patient. This is worn day and 
night, and renewed when ihe wet bandage becomes diy< 



meu I 



: uecomes tuj* i 



TUB WET DANUAOE, OR COWPilESS. 103 

This ia, in fact, a coutiuucd fuuieatatiuo or poultice. It 
draws lo the ekia and general covering of the abdomen, 
any undue action in the liulng membrauc of the 6to~ 
mach and alimentary canal, reducing the irritation or 
Bub-iaflammatiou ; alao by its soothing and Hcdativc 
properties regulates the bowels, increasing the peri- 
staltic motion, and fiicUitating the expulsion of faeces. 
After a time, more especially when there is a tendency 
to crisis, the bandage, when washed, is found to be 
saturated with different secretions &om the skiu, making 
the water thick and turbid. And firequently a curious 
phenomenon takes place, which has not yet been ex- 
plained. After the bandage has been worn some week;!, 
there is a secretion thrown out on the skin of the sto- 
mach and abdomen, of a beaniifut dark blue colour; 
this continues for a week or two ; sometimes ceases sud- 
denly for weeks, and returns again. It is of frequent 
occurrence, and I have always found it of precisely the 
■ame colour. As yet I have only seen it ui bad dys- 
peptic cases, and where mercury Ixad been taken at some 
previous period. 1 had a number of specimens coUecled, 
to be submitted to analysis, but they were lost. This 
water-dressing is applied to eruptions, and difFereut 
kinds of local affections that appear during the crisis, to 
gouty hundf^ and feet, &c. This warm fomentation re- 
lieves heart-burn, spasms, and tlie train of symptoms ae- 
companying dyspepsia. From the length of time it can 
^b be worn without any inconvenience, it is an excellent 
^^paoacea, and a, valuable adjunct to llie general curei 



t 
I 



I 




Wlicn tltc wet compress, or bandage, is applied t( 
the Gloinacb, it ie Hdvisaljlc, in many casesf tu confine 
the Kit part to the front of liic abdonieii only, not. 
extending all round, as uacd ut Gracfenbcr^ iiiiliEcri- 
mmatcly. When the piiticut ia weak and irritable, it 
producea sometimes s tceling of great discomfort, wkich< 
should in alt cases be avoided ; this is seldom the cauf 
when thitj change is made. There arc also a great 
many who had better omit it at night, or wear it only 
while walking. 



THE DOUCHE. 




This is formed by a column of water, descending per> 
pendicularly from Leo lo twenty feet, and from one to 
six inches or more iu diameter. To prevent its sepan 
rating into a shower bath, when the ^l is great, it ifl 
better lo have it conducted through a. tube for sod« 
distance iu its descent. The lient time for taking llM 
douche is after breakfiist, from ten lo twelve o'clock ; il 
is used, however, before brcakfasl, and in the evening 
in certain cases — a long walk, or Eullicicnt exercise bcini 
taken bcforehjmd, to produce gcucriil warmth and aa 
livity in the syslem. Before commencing the douchi 
it is prudent to let it fall iirst on the piJiiis of the haudt 
washing the face, Lead, and thcsU It is then allowoj 
to fall slanting on tltc shoulders, bi})9, and loins, geoi 



THE IKIDCUE. 



^^nally iivuiding the abdomen, always the stomach. By 

^^Felevating the hands, and foriuiug tt roof over the head, 

it is then allowed to fall perpendicularly ou lliis pait, 

separating the column into rajs, and acting as a shower 

Iballi on the rest of the body. In many local affections, 
in iveakness or paralysis of the extremities, the part is 
^ore pai'ticnlarly subjected to the influence of the 
douche. 
' The jKiwerful effect of the douche bath has been 
^linown fur ages, but it is only of late years that its 
reflects have been fairly studied, its many valuable pro- 
ipcrtics appreciated, and its application in disease re- 
,duced to something like a raliooal system. The reason 
why Ihis has been the case (and the same remart is 
applicable to each of the different modes of using water), 
is, I believe, sufflcicntiy obvious. To obtain all the 

I remedial action resulting from any one of the diversified 
modes of applying water, it is necessary that the major 
part of them should be used conjointly — the effect of 
;One hanging upon the other, and increased, Itsacned, or 
modified, in its ultimate operation. Till the time of 
Priessnitz no man of genius had devoted all his powers 
exclusively to the study; many liad inklings of the 
Tirtues of certain applications of water, others prophesied 
what has since taken place — that water, from the varied 
effects it can be made to produce, is, as nearly as pos- 
Cible, an universal remedy, — resembling in its proper- 
ties, as elicited by the endless modifications of which it 
p susceptible, all our most potent drugs, including 



MS 



TUB 1K>DCHB, 



bleeding, leecliing, and blistering. But witli this great 
fidvaoLage, that it is more certain in producing ilic 
effect desired, and not followed by tlie destmcttou and 
miBcbief which so often tbllows the action of medicines, 
whether drawn from the animal or vegetable kingdoms ; 
and the same remark applies to bleeding and blistering. 
To return to the douche. It is taken from two 
minutes to half-an-hwiir — five or ten minutes being the 
ordinary time. When an individual is somewhat ad- 
ranced in recovery, after a few minutes' douching, the 
whole surface of the body assumeB a beautiful deep rosy 
colour, followed by a general feeling of activity and 
well-being, producing courage in the mind, and tone in 
the musculo syRtem, with an inclination to active move- 
ment. These effects, however, arc not so stroogW 
marked where the skin is still In a weak and disordend 
state, or where there is chronic disease existing in the 
abdominal viscera, preventing its full action, " or where 
there is much 'bad stuff' circulating throughout the 
body." The douche is a powerful auxiliary to the 
general treatment, but requires great discretion, a care- 
fiil inquiry into the nature and state of the constitation 
of the patient, and a knowledge of the pathological state 
he may be labouring under. It puts the v 
into a state of activity ^id excitement, forcing the cir- 
culation to the surface, acting on the stomach am! 
bowels, and increasing the activity and wakefulness (rf J 
the senses ui a marked degree. When used at the j 
*et tune, jt forwards the crisis that the systc 



THE DOUCHE. 



107 



be preparing, and produces eruptions, &c,, on the skin. 
It changes the quaHty of the perspired fluid, and causes 
immense deposits to be thrown out with the urine. All 
the other parts of the treatment of course also conduce 
to this state of matters. 

In cases where there is chronic (liseafie of long stand- 
ing in the abdominal viscera, more especially when ac- 
companied with debility or much irritation in the gan- 
glionic system of nerves, — where the functions of the 
brain are disturbed, or there is reason to suspect tliat there 
is change in its structure, the douche must be used with 
discretion, aud with the greatest watchfulness, generally 
not at all. When any feverish or nervous symptomB 
shew themselves, it must be suspended till these go off; 
or, in fact, when it produces any undue excitement or 
sleeplessness. 

At first there is a sensation of fear when the noise and 
splash of the descending water is heard, but after the 
first essay this goes off; nor does the patient ever teil- 
linffly retinn from a larger doiLche to a smaller one. 
Taking the douche is not nearly as disagreeable as a 
shower bath, and is generally looked forward to with 
pleasure. 



» 



THE FOOT BATH. 

This is taken in a shallow vessel containing from four 
to six inches of cold water; it lasts from five minutes to 
an hour, during which period the feet are to be well 



108 



TUB Foot ba,th. 



rubbed liy an atlcndant, or the palteitt rubti eacb foot 
alteroalelj with the other, It Is need ns a derivative in 
oon^CCi'tioD of tlic braiB, headache, threatening apuplexyi 
wet compresses being pinced on the head at the eanie 
time, and treijtieiitly ehaugcd; bnt this is not oHeu ne- 
cessary. It acts on the abdominal viscera, and excites 
tlie action of the uterus. It is the best local remedy for 
habitual cold feet, keeping them in a glow for the rest 
of the day, and with repetition pennaneiitli/ i"estoring the 
warmth and circulation in them. To ensure a sj>eedy 
reaction, the feet must be warmed by rubbing or exercise, 
belbrc puttijig them in the cold water, and immediately 
after ihe bath exercise muBt be taken. A certain way 
of warming the feet and keeping them so, is by drawing 
on a pair of cotton socks iceil wrung out of cold water, 
over these another pair of thick dry ones, and a pair of 
large boots. A walk in this Glale warms the Icet imme- 
diately, and they remain in a glow the whole day. The 
warm toot bath is the reverse of all this. 



THE HEAD BATH. 



ne- I 
:hG I 

i 



The patient lies full teugtb on a mattrass, or on the 
floor, a dish containing two or four inches of cold water 
is placed so that the back jmrt of the head rests in il, 
Eomelimes turning the bead on the right side, sometimes 
on the left, as may be indicated ; this lasts from five to 
twenty minutes. It is a highly useful remedy in atfec- 



FABITAL B ATHB. 1 09 

tioiis 6f the brain>: eyes and ears, in convulsions ft6m 
t<^ething;<h^drocephahis, &c. It is used in the toeai^ 
ment'of:feveT5 when there is determination^ to the brain5 
or delmunli^ beinff placed under the head while the- patient 
is in the wet sheet. 



PARTIAL BATHS, 



I ■ 



The ELBOW BATH is used in inflammation and injuries 
of th^ hand and forearm. The elbow is placed ia a 
i)al3iil '(^btitiainitig about six inches of water, the f part 
affedfed being elevated, and covered with a wet com- 
j^irbisd. It gives great relief, and assists in rapidlj reduc- 
ing Itiflathmatory symptoms. 

The iaipBATH is used for the same purpose^ when the 
kne6' or the leg are the parts to be relieved. - i ' 

' There is another partial bath which is highly useful— 
the LEO BATH. It is taken in an oval tub, about a loot 
in diameter in its widest part, and reaching up to the 
bend of the knee. In this the whole leg is inserted, the 
water being of higher or lower temperature, according 
to circumstances. It is applied in diseases of the bones, 
the joints, or the skin, in ulcers of long standbg, &c, 



. 1 1 



• ■ • i i . ' / ; : f I ;.' 



THE 

TREATMENT OF DISEASES^ 
BY WATER. 



I 



I HAVE before me a very learned and useful work ^ 
an eminent physician, nt>w living in " Modem Athens." 
It ia on diaeaseE of the stomach, intestinal canal, the liver, 
and other viscera of the ahdomen. It contains the exa-- 
minatioa of a great number of fatal cases ; and tbej who 
would " sup full of horrors," will find in this volume 
wherewithal to satiate for ever. What are a feio of the 
deepest tr(^j;edieB to these prevalent diseases and their 
attendant SLifFerings? I shall present the reader with a 
specimen or two, — and do not tremble too much, ye 
(Irinfters of spirit and sensual gonnandizers, who wantonly 
imdermine and destroy one of the most valuable gifts of 
living beings, converting yourselves into a complication 
of impurities, and in the end becoming a locomotive 
museum of morbid anatomy. It is never too late to 
attempt a reform. 

The worthy Doctor says that the following case of 
" extensive cancerous uLCBftATios of tbb stomach, 



THE TREATMENT OF DISEASES BY WATER. 



in 



wen 



Htona 



is perhaps one of the most extraordinary examples on 

record." It may be as regards the record, but I have 

distinct recollection of eight cases which came under my 

own care and post-mortem examination, equal to, and 

exceeding, if possible, the ravages in the following case. 

Some of them are still in their favourite spirit. They 

were all gin, hot brandy and water, and whisky drinkers, 

people with powerful constitutions. 

"An individual, aged forty-nine, had been in bad 

lealth through the winter 1811-12, complaining chiefly 

of weakness, and a constant uneasiness across the region 

of the stomach, with occasional attacks of acule pain 

'ards the left side. In May, 1812, she began to have 

liting, which continued from that time, and became 

more and more urgent. I saw her in July, and found 

her much emaciated ; she complained of a dull pain in 

the epigastric region, where considerable hardness was 

it ; and she vomited a portion of everything she took, 

letimes immediately after taking it, and sometimes a 

isiderable time after. She continued with little 

lUge till the beginning of September, when the 

iting subsided, and she was free from it for more 

a fortnight. But during this time she was affected 

dth diaiTlicea, her strength sunk, and she died on the 

23rd, the vomiting having returned, though with leas 

severity, three or four days before death. During the 

period when slie was free from vomiting, she took food 

and drink of various kinds, and in very considerable 

quantity, and continued to do so till a lew hours before 



112 



TBEATMERT OF DISEASES 



death. Jntpertion, — On opening (be obdomeD, anil 
liiokJnp; for the stomaclt, a lai^c irregular opciniug yte- 
scntod ilself, which was imiiid to lead into the cavity 
ot' the titomncli, in cnnsc'itience of a lurge extenl ul' its 
great arch being entirely destroyed. In the loft side, 
there was a large irregular mass, which appeared In eon- 
fiiBt uf an enlarged and diseased spleen, and (he remains 
of the great arch of the stomach, so blended into one 
mass that it was impossible lo distinguish one part from 
another ; in the substanee of it there was a cyst full of 
very fetid tnalter. This mass was attached to Ae 
cordia by a narrow portion, which remained, of cbe 
coats of the stomach at that place ; and when the pAits 
were taken out and displayed, by siisperKling the 
stomach by the cardia an<l the pylorus, the appear*nec3 
were very remarkable. When stretched out in this 
manner, alwut one-half of the stomach nt the pylaiic 
extremity was sound and healthy. This part -was at- 
tached to the cardia by a narrow portion of the sraall 
curvature which remained ; and by another Bmcdl por- 
tion (»f the greater curvature, the largo irregular noss 
now referred to himg down on the left aide. The left 
side and lower part of the gi-ent arch uf tiie atomach vts 
entirely wanting to such an extent, that, when the parts 
were extended in the manner now mentioned, it seCoHsl 
as if nearly one-half of die stomach had been enlirelj 
destroyed. There was reason lo believe thai the part 
which seemed to he wanting was involved in the dis- 
eased mass on the left side. The sound parts wtn 



BY WATER. 



113 



tpitrated from tliis portitHi by a line of ulceration of 
' 'SNch extent, that the pyloric extremity remained at- 
tached to the carttia only by a portion about two inches 
in breadth which reinamed of the small arch. The 
, Hlcerate<l edge, where the sepwation had taken place, 
flladdet] with numerous hm^l tubercles like the 
*e3 of a cancerous ulcer. The pancreas whs Iiard ; 
hver was pale and soft; llie other viscera were 
fc'healthy." 

"A gentleman, aged sixty-five, in September, 1820, 

s seized, during a journey on horseback, with diar- 

ikceA, the motiniiH being black and pitchy, lie then 

i pain in the region of the liver, which for several 

lays was bo severe, that he could not Ikbx the motion 

of his horse. It then subsided considerably, and after 

his return home in the end of the montli, he w.is able 

^^ to walk about a good deal, without ap^iearing to suffer 

^^nnuch uneasiness. On the 1st of Octoi)er there was 

^^Bfaicreaso of the pain, nith fever, and the pain extended 

^^Mo tho riglit shoulder. He was now lasgbly di^d and 

^^MUasTGAED, &r., and the acntc symptoms wore soon 

^^ 'removed ; but lie was never free from pain in his right 

side, aitd, afler some time, he began to have cough, 

ll with copious mncoiiH expectoration. He took mercury 

^^Lnitli APPAKKNT relief, and for n short time was lietter; 

^^ptiut in the end of November he began to lose flesh, and 

f^^ the pain in tlie right side continued. I saw him for the 

first time on the 11th of December; he was then oiiich 

emaciated, with some dropsy oi' tho limbs; there was 



114 



theatment op diseases 



slill fixed pain in llie region of the right lobe of the 
liver, but nothing could be discovered by pressure, and 
there was no nppearance of jaundice ; the pulse waa 
frei]uent and weak. The debility and dropsical syuip- 
loina increased progressively, and he died, gradually' 
hausted, on the fith of February. 

" Inspection. — The liver scarcely exceeded the nat 
size ; its edge projected somewhat below the margin ^ 
the ribs, but had not been felt on account of a very 
firm attachment to the arch of the colon, by which it 
was bound down and thrown backwards. Its whole 
striictiue waa altered in a remarkable manner from the 
healthy state ; externally, it was closely covered by 
innumerable small semi-transparent tubercles, set very 
close together, and the largest of them scarcely exceed- 
ing the size of a spHl pea ; internally, it was soft and of 
a white or ash colour, very much resembling the sub- 
stance of the brain, and in many places almost of a 
pulpy consistence ; scarcely the smallest portion could 
be discovered that retained anything hke the healthy 
ap])earance. There wa,s considerable effusion in the 
abdomen ; the other viscera were healthy." 

This, I think, will be enough for the reader ; but in 
the book, which is not very large, there is morbid 
anatomy enough to make preparations that would fill 
one of the large rooms in the British Museum, In the 
author's learned preface, I find the following observa- 
tions, which I shall extract, and add thereto a fen 
comments : — 



ymp- 



115 



" Tlie Preface. — Nothing appears to have had greater 

ifluence la retarding the progress of knowledge, than 

Lmisconception iu regard to the proper objects of scienlific 

tinquirtf. It was in this manner that so much talent was 

F wasted and lost in tbrmer times, when learned and able 

I men devoted their attention to searching after the hidden 

heauscs of events ; and the great purpose of the Ulastrioiis 

Btfathers of modem science was accomplished, by bringing 

I ^back the attention of inquirers to objects \vhich are 

I within the reach of the human faculties. We often talk 

I of the philosophy of Bacon, with()ut fully recognising 

kthe important truth, that the philosophy of Bacon and 

• iNewton consists entirely, to use the words of an eminent 

L'-writer, in 'ascertaining the universoUty of a fact' This 

cannot be better illustrated than by a reference to that 

department of science, in which the philosophy of 

modem times is so distinguished above the conjectures 

b of former ages. The theory of gravitation, even ex- 

l> tended as it has been to the great phenomena of the 

\ universe, is nothing more than the universality of a fact. 

Of the cause of that fact we know nothing, and all the 

investigations of Newton were carried on independently 

I of any attempt to discover it. ' When Newton (says 

) Mr. Stewart) shewed that the same law of gravity ex- 

) tends to the celestial spaces, and that the power by 

\ which the moon and phinets are retained in their orbits, 

k is precisely similar in its effects, to that which is mani- 

^ fested in the fall of a stone — he lefl the elhcient cause 

I of gravity as much in the dark as ever, and only gene- 



lie 



TIIEATMENT OF DISEASES 



ralized still further the conclusions of his predecessors.' 
If inetlii:inc is ever to itttUD a place among the induo 
tive sciences, its first great step towards thJB distinction 
will he made when medical inquirei-s agree to restrict 
their investigations to tiscerlaining the imiim-tahty of 
fad. By adhering to this rule, we shall avoid two en 
which will probably be ailmitted to have been frcqm 
in medical reasonings, and to have had no inconsiderable 
influence in retnrding the progress of medical science. 
Tlie one is the construction of hypothetical llieories, or 
the assumption of principles which are altogether gra- 
tuitous anil imaginary; the other is the deduction of 
genera! principles or conclusions from a limited number 
of facts. Doctrines of the former class may be con- 
sidered as almost independent of observation ; and those 
of the latter kind, though they have an apparent foimda- 
tion of facta, arc framed without due inquiry whelhei 
these facts are universal. The confidence is, ind* 
rctnarltable, with which general statements of this 
description are often brought forward, and the facility 
with which they are received, without due examination, 
as established principles. We even find some writers 
expressing such confidence in their deductions, as to 
talk of general rules in medidnp, mth exceptions to these 
rules; and in this manner new observations, by which 
the rules might be corrected, are overlooked or fop- 
gotten. Such a phraseology, indeed, must probably he 
considered as at variance with the principles of sound 
investigation. We are in the habit of talking of genen 



'til 

;ilit*^H 



of genera^^^ 



BY WATBH. 



117 



I 



rules in grammar, and exce{>tions to these iiiles, because 
we know the precise extent to which tlie rules applyj 
(uid the exact number of instances wliicU form the ex- 
ceptions; btU in physical science, to sptak of ei-ceptioiia Co 
a general rule cannot be reyardeil in any other light, tlian as 
an admission that the rule is not general, and cmsfqtiently 
is unworthy of confidence. The best means of avoiding 
the errors which have now been referred to, will pro- 
bably be, fo keep in raind the important principle, that 
the object of physical science \s, ' to ascertain tlie ^XDi- 
versality of a fact.' A considerable number of medical 
doctrines, there is reason to apprehend, tnll come out of the 
examination in ratlier an unsatisfactory manner, if we 
apply to tliein the tests which tiiiu rule would furnish, 
namely — are tluy facts, and are these facts universnl ? 
The object which the author has proposed to hiuisclf in 
all his medical researches has been to furnish facts in a 
concise and accesaible form, and to advance to conclu- 
Eious by the first step of the moat cautious induction, 
If, in following out this course of investigation, he has 
eometimcB had occasion to call in question doctrines 
which have been gvmrally received, he has only to appeal 
to the principles which have now been stated. To 
opinions which have been receivt:d by others he would 
never presume to oppose mere opinions of his own ; but 
he cannot hesitate to submit both to the test of observa- 
tions which arc calculated to ascertain whether they are 
facts, and toltet/ter the facts are nniversal." 

Now I should like to inquire hoW far this desirable 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES 



litif of a fact is applicable to the work befiM 



I limy venture to say, en passant, that I am also IB 
search of this desideratum, this universality of a fact, 
whose consolatory influence on the mind I should feci 
as mach as the learned Doctor I have been quoting 
from. I have looked through the book to asccrLain the 
applicability of hia prefatory rcmarlcB to its contents. 
I must confess I du not find them as apropos as they 
might be, nor do I find very much to lead to the attmn- 
menl of the knowledge of this universality of a fact. 
However this may be, 1 am pretty sure tho amiable au- 
thor would be the last person to desire that s\ic\ifactsas 
lie describes leere universaL But how is it tliat I find 
nothing said that could give one an idea how such 
drcfldful facts as he describes were brought about — th^ 
could not have dropped suddenly, " like the gentle dew, 
from heaven, upon the place beneath." What was the 
mode of life of these unfortunate individuals ? how mmiy 
coiu-sea of mercury had they taken ? how many thoa- 
sand draughts of spirits, or of those nicely wrapped up 
from the druggists, had they swallowed? How many 
thousand pills not patent, or of Herr MorriBons, had trar- 
veiled through their unfortunate stomach and bomltf 
How much arsenic and quinine had they taken ? or 
what endless round of unintelligible compounds had 
been poured down their throats ? The author is as si- 
lent on these jwints as the patient, and leaves it to our 
imaginations. The facta are nearly useless without a 



BY WATER. 



knowledge of the more evident causes ; because, when 
they arrive at the states he describes, they are hopeless, 
and only serve as warnings, or subjects to excite terror. 
He says, the best mode of avoiding the errors which 
have now been referred to, will probably be to keep in 
mind the important principle, that the object of physical 
sdence is to ascertain '• the universality of a fact." How 
far docs this physical science apply to the practice of 
medicine, and to the hving human body P The moon 
and the earth have no nervous systems, nor " a circula- 
tion of the blood ;" they do not die by a mental emo- 
tion, nor are they subject to fever, or cancer of the stomach ; 

NEITH&R UAVE TIIET MOUTHS AND STOMACHS TO RECEIVE 
INCONGRUOUS PHARMACEUTICAL PREPAHATIONS. In thc 

chaos of medical practice, where are we to hunt for " the 
universality of a fact?" It would be more easy to find it in 
Mr. Murphy's weather guide. One eminent doctor tells 
you that a rational treatment of disease, according to a. 
sane physiological doctrine, is all nousensc, and that it is 
better to trust to blind empirism, and try anything that 
comes uppermost. Another swears by the lancet ; while 
bis equally learned friend asserts with equal assurance, 
that the former gentleman, and those that follow thc 
same practice, with their tinif weapons dispatch more 
people to their " long homes" than was ever done by the 
sabre. One sleeps with the pharmacupccia under his 
pillow, and thinks thc world would not turn i\>und if 
wholettale druggists were not admitted on change, or if 
auything stopped the importation uf drugs. An equally 




TUEATMENT OF UlSEABES 

learned profeesor, v.'ilh a class uf tlirec-himdred studentB, 
declares to Lis lutimatcs tbal, "If there vaere no tiwh 
tkhtgs as drugs, it mould be the i/reatest boon to humatiity". 
IJow arciwc to reconcile the contending parties, and; 
at "the universality of a lact?" I know of no bettt 
uictLod, than by wabuing out tbeib dutgbkhces with 
WATER. Notwithstanding all I have smd, I must observe, 
that in the present state of man, it is of the greatest utility, 
aud alwohiicly necessary for a perfect and useful practice, 
to ascertain the precise seat and nature of disease, as well 
as the various morbid changes ofwhieh each organ of the 
hnman body is susceptible ; but it is still better to pre- 
vent an evil, than to remedy it, or to ascertain tlic_/arf 
when it has become iucurablc. In our endeavours to 
find "the universality of a fact," the following propuE 
tious are, I think, well woilhy of attention, iu order 
discover how fiir they agree with our present knowled) 
and bow far they may be confirmed by future obsei 
tion. 



iixh 

tt^^H 



The majority of people do not live temperately, g 
little or no cousidcration to the subject, not beJog awa^ 
of its wonder-working powers. 

1. All i>cople who do live temperately, are freer £ 
paius, aches, and diseases, than those who do not ; 
live many years longer, aud die easier deaths. 

2. When the parents have diseases which they acquire 
by an improper mode of living, it does not end wiihiri 



121 



I 



leiB— they are left as a legacy to their children, who 
^ain hand them down from generation to generation, 
becoming more complicated and difficult to remedy- 

3. All people who drink water arc more cheerful and 
healthy, eating, drinking, sleeping, and working, with 

lore pleasure than those who take liquid stimulants of 
ly kind. 

4. All people who cat moderately, and of a simple 
it, are better in every waij than those who eat as much 
they can, or of a variety of highly-seasoned dishes. 

5. All people who avoid drugs, are more healthy, and 
■er from disease, than those who get into the habit of 

ig them for every symptom. 

6. If the practice of medicine was not very hieffec- 
so many hundreds would not be flying off to all 

;nds of hot springs on the continent, applying tor aid 
quacks and impostoi's, to the " hocus-pocus" system 
of homeopathy, with its beyond imagination small doses, 
its substitution of hunffry Jieas instead of leeches, and its 
good aifstem of diet; and last, but not least, the daily in- 
creasing drafts of patients taken out of both the former 
systems by the water-drinkers, would not be so great. 

7. The " miter cure," and the system of living which 
it teaches, will, when understoodj prevent the occurrence 
of slow or chronic disease, and prevent the fatal elTects 
of any inflammatory or acute disease, and ultimately put 
an end to hereditary diseases. 

8. Very many patients can Walk about, and even 
enjoy themsclvcB with the treatment by water, having at 



12: 



TREATMENT OP DISEASES BY WATER. 



the same time medical and surgical diseases, of which 
they would be in a dying state Id any hospital or acV 
room in Europe, or England. 

9. Errors in the treatment by drugs, bleeding, blis- 
tering, &c., arc moT€ fatal than errors committed in the 
'• water cure." 

10. The "water cure" has common sense to recom- 
mend it, many agreeable accompaniments, and Jew deaths. 
The practice of medicine has custom, prejudice, and in- 

Jluence, no cTijot/ments, and greaifatalitif. 

11. In the most severe and dangerous diseases, the 
action of water is certain ; that of all medical measures 
uncertain, and oflen hurtful ; or, as a celebrated practi- 
tioner said, "It is terrible guess-work, with the best 
of UB." 

1 2. By the " water cure" we may arrive at " the 
universality of & fact," by the practice of medicine I feai 
»ever. 

A few doeen more propositions of the ssaas kind 
might be added, but for the present there is neither 
time nor space. 



DRUG DISEASES. 



lERE is an interesting cl^s of diseases, which may be 
tudied at Graefenberg as well as eleewfaere, with great 
tdvantage; they are not much talked of by medical 
len, or largely descanted upon in the schouls, nor do 
we find them holding the very prominent place they 
deserve in systeniatic works on medicine ; they may, for 
want of a better name, be called Drwf diseases. Many 
of the most desperate cases — indeed, many of the in- 
curable, I have seen, owed their forlorn state to little 
else than mercury, quinine, arsenic, and purgatives, — 
Morrison's, though last, not least; the most hopeless 
s of ruined nervous systems, destroyed stomach and 
lowels, arose from one or the other of these powerful 
ledicines, given with little care or caution; — one had a 
Lght ailment removed at the expeoEe of finding his 
i)>ones rotting afterwards; another bad a still lighter 
complaint removed, hut paying for it by low spirits and 
despondency the rest of his days ; and thus it goes on, 
^^ through a host of diseased states more or less severe. In 
^^kthc Anatomical Museum at Breslau, the celebrated 
^HtSDatomist Otto lias placed au interesting collection of 



liunuin bones, which are full of taercaty; betwreeni the 
plates, niif] ill the caiiccllalccl structitra uf the bones of 
the skull, the mercury is seen in large quantities. There 
was a cclcbruleil anatomist at Graefrnbei^ when I ^as 
there, who told mc ho had a complete museum of tbe 
same kind. I promised him not to mention his name, 
as he said, " I hold a position in the juste luilien, and I 
wish to reconcile rather than ofl'eud either of the coo- 
tending parties ; 1 wish to steer clear Ijelwecn the fiery 
driigman iind the cool water advocate." He was gMQg 
through the " water cure" incog. 

When establishments for the treatment of diseases t^ 
water are fonned in every part of Knglaitd, whidi I 
make no doubt will be the ease in a very short time, 
they will ultimately have the effect of mitigating, and it 
may be hoped removing altogether, the long list of drug 
diseases ; I will go further, and say, that I have no doubt 
that conKumption, which now cairics off its thousands 
and tens of thousands, with scrofula, gout, and a number 
of hereditary diseases, will become unknown, and almost 
forgotten — a talc of former times. The influence of 
theae establishments will sooner or later be felt by tiie 
whole community; they will become sumniec resorti 
for a course of scientific bathing, and they will be madi: 
the most agreeable centres of rc-union; all jiersoiis 
leaving ibeai will he so many missionaries of temperance, 
filled wilh the ardent desire that all should pur tic i pate in 
the good they have experienced, and tlie iiunnuiily from 
pain which they enjoy from their new mode of life. la 



DRUG DISEASE9, 



125 



a Country like England, where there is such free inquiry, 
and such rapid circulation of llionghc, it will be carried 
on by railroad, and at a railroad pace. Consider, for a 
moment, what a compound niulti|ilied effect this will 
have on generation after generation, gaining new strength 
at every fresh start, the power accumulating by addi- 
tional numbers, by the intenseness of conviction, by habit, 
and by example ; at every step there will be fewer sins 
of the parents to be visited upon, and descend to, the 
cliiklren. There mil be viore benevohnt feeling abroad ; 
it will be cultivated for its own sake, from the more full 
appreciation of the pleasant feelings which it brings with 
h; from the great influence its enjoyment has in increas- 
ing and perpetuating a healthy state of tbo mind and 
body. Benevolence is a powerful medicine, and may most 
trull/ he caUed its own reward — " they who joy woiiUl win, 
moat share it, happiness was bom a ttoiii." On 'Change, 
we hear that money makes money ; but they don't tell 
UB it does something more than this — that it makes dis- 
ease, that it makes men envy and hate each other, that 
it makes the majority dissatisfied with their lot, not 
knowing that the possessors of wealth are, ninety-nine 
times out of the hundred, anything but objects of envy 
or hatred, claiming rather, from a thousand causes which 
are concealed behind the curtain, their commiseration. 

There are few who do not like and anticipate with 
pleasure the sweets of independence ; there is a shovler 
road to it than most people imagine, and ibis short cut 
)9 to the only real independence— Temperiwce ; and it if 




136 DRUG DISEASES. 



within the reach of every one. How little a temperate 
man requires to keep him in health, strength, and spirits ; 
he has always something to spare, and the very act of 
living, of eating, sleeping, and using his limbs, are plea- 
sures. An old coal-cutter, who had become temperate, 
told me, " For years I used to return to my work, after 
drinking and two or three days idling, with a splitting 
head-ache, which I did not work off for the first twenty- 
four hours, it was very bad to go through ; my wife and 
fimiily were always in want ; but now, with the good 
vages I have, and they are the same as 1 always had, 
we have enough of everything, and my work Is light com- 
pared to what I felt it before." Coal-cutting is hard 
work while it lasts; the workman is on his knees, or 
sitting, while he is hacking away in his hole ; they do 
not, however, work above three or four days in the week, 
and get very high wages, the idle time is generally spent 
in the ale-house. 

If a man has continual head-aches, low spirits, the 
gout, or any other similar infliction, it does not signify 
what his position may be, he is not independent, he is lu 
the power of a greater and more disagreahle tyrant than 
any absolute taskmaster can be. Let not any one be so 
blind or unthinking as to regret that he has an occupa- 
tion, or is obliged to work ; labour is itself a pleasure 
when accompanied by health. Observe people who 
have nothing to do, how they yawn, and grasp at any- 
thing to engage their time; those who, after making 
money, have retired, are seldom so happy, and are often 



DRUG DISEASES. 127 

glad to return to their occupation, of which we have 
many recent instances, Sir Astley Cooper, for example. 
I repeat) a reallj temperate man cannot be otherwise 
than independent ; he and his children are healthy, and 
beyond the reach of want. Suppose a man has 300/. 
a-year, by a rational and a much more pleasurable mode 
of living he can save at least from 80/. to 100/. a-year in 
druffs, wines, spirits, beer, &c. &c. ; and it must not be 
fefgotten in the account, that, besides paying for the 
druffs there is the taking them, the very mention of which 
suggests a catalogue of pains and aches,-— ^^ Think of 
that. Master Brook I" 



IJ 



G O U T. 



Definition. — Gout Is an hereditary disease, prodm 
infi'iDgement of the oi^nnic liiws, the ofikpriiig of ialet 
perance, and tqe punishment of disobedieniu 
handed down to the children from generation to geaj 
ration, with all its pains and penalties, undimiuiBh<Ml,jh 
any legacy-duty or medical treatment. 

Where this prevalent disease is not inherited from t) 
parent, but acqnired, the person making the acquisiti^ 
may tmly boast of being the founder of tlie disc 
fii'st gouty penon in his family. We hear it ca)led„( 
"fashionable complaint," even a "genteel disease," whifi 
though having some foundation, aa being more partiq| 
larly "ettfot/ed" by the richer and more hixiuious claf 
yet, as a large portion of the middle ranks, as well j 
the poorer part of mankind, who drink much spirits a 
fermented liquors, claim a tolerable portion of this i 
fliction as their own, their " betters," in this pi 
cannot be considered "oxcUisive," Gout and rheij 
matism run into each other by such insensible c 
that the term used in common life of " rheumatic j 
is Btrictly coiTect ; this arises from the same gtr^ctiy 



G^CT. 



IW 



being attnclced in both diseases, and from the similarity 
with which they both disappear, as well as from their 
mutual tendency to leave the exlernal, and^^ to some 
internal part. But it la of some consequence to distin- 
guish between the two; this ia discovered by the joints 
principally affected, the progress of the symptoms, and 
I the causes which give rise to the two diseases. Refiulur 
' gont is the result of a modified inflammation of the 
jv'itomach and duodennm, (or that part of the alimentary 
cana] which proceeds from the stomach, and in which is 
the opening of the bile ducts,) followed by a similar state of 
the fibrous membranes of the joints on exposure to cold, 
I 4e. Src, beginniug generally with the GREAT toe; there 
I is another kind of gout, which we call irrrpular, being 
riot so inflammatory' or well marked; and there is a 
?A;>r/ variety, which may accompany the two species I 
have mentioncdj this is where it attacks some internal 
oi^an — the brain, the heart, the lungs, &c., leaving the 
external part in which it was going on, and attacking 
those parts jnst mentioned. 

Before an attack of gout comes (m, there is more or 
less fever and other symptoms, shewing that the digestive 
Cleans are in a state of suffering ; there is coldness of 
the feet and hands, numboessj a sensp of pricking or 
itching, disturbed sleep, costive bowels, &c. &c. ; at last, 
with more or less shivering, followed by fever, an intense 
pain is felt in a joint — this generally lakes place very 
early in the morning; in a few hours the part becomes 
red, swelled, and very painfiil to the tonch. This slate 



130 



goes on for some days, when the attack groclually wi 
off, Diiring this state of punishmknt, which is like 
continued blister to the joint, and the abstinence, fromi 
want of appetite, the patient finds himself better than 
some time before the paroxysm came on. I write feetn 
ingly on this subject, for I once — and only once — ^had 
an attack of gout; this lasted during a journey from 
Liverpool to London in the mail, the result of drinkiD| 
too nmch Madeira and other stimulants when on a visit 
Christmas to some too hospitable friends : truly does 
peasant philosopher of Graefenberg say, " Our eiten 
can do us but very little harm, 'tib odb frienqs Who K 
UB." Bill what I have described above is only a uligl 
attack, a paroxysm, the first scene in the eventful histoi 
which I am now relating. By degrees ihcy becomi 
more frequent and severe, the general powers of the 
constitution becoming more and more influenced by the 
disease; other joints begin to suffer, till, by its ravi 
scarcely a joint of the body escapes j their motions 
become impeded by stiffness, and at last they are 
prived completely of the power of movement — this is 
caused by thickening of the part, and by a quantity 
chalky matter, which is deposited, producing unseei 
swellings, while fresh inflammation supervenes to 
vate the sufferings of the patient. Now general 
tutional disturbance comes on, with feelings of great 
pression ; during the night, cramps attack different 
of the body ; a<lded to this the patient is tormented with 
palpilaliun, heart-burn, and a cough, and the bod; b^ 




3y the 11 

ivago^^H 
IS noiN^^H 

re de- ^^^H 

this is 
,..tity of.^^^ 
nseen^M^^^I 

consti^^^l 
;reat <}e^^^H 
sntparta-^^^^ 



131 



comes a mass of dieeafie, and the coniinuance of life in 
great danger of being aoon arrested. 

T!ie gout haa now a dangeroiia tendency to fly to 
Bomc vital oi^n, as it is said ; that is, the stomach, in- 
testinea, heart, or brain, &c. are in danger of a fatal 
attack of inflammntion, It is a popular notion, and was 
&r a long time the docLrine, that it wasaome morbific or 
acid matter, that flew from the joints to the organs 1 have 
mentioned, and caused the mischief; this, however, is 
act the case, and is an opinion long exploded by all 
IKientiflc pathologists. It would be just as rational to 
ly that the delirium when it is made to cease in the 
te^in, had^ouNi to t/ie toes, as that the fjinity humour of 
the toes had flown to the brain, and caused the delirium. 
i Many people have the unfortunate idea that an attack 
of gout is healthy ; this blinds the patient to his danger, 
and leads to a system which, in the first instance, estab- 
lishes the disease in the constitution, and in the end mi- 
dermines it. I need not refer again to the causes of 
gout, merely observing that women very seldom have 
it, which in itself speaka volumes. Gout has never been 

I cured by any medicinal treatment, the system being 
ioerely to relieve the urgent symptoms. One remedy 
in most common use is colchicum. This poisonous irri- 
tant curtails the fit of gout, and therefore is a groat 
&vonritc ; but it is dearly bought ; it centres the mwbid 
irritation in the digestive organs, and prevents it flying 
to the joints, as it is said ; the invariable consequence 
of this is, that mattcre are hurried on to the last sc^ie 
K 2 




138 



(iftt\\, tlio fits come on riiftrefreq'(KnttS',"![na'tHe'dis^«e 
insttes nioi'e mpid utrideBlo a confirmedly «trt-dnie -dfr- 
Hiie. I was on my way to Italy many years ago, with 
n rij^ht honourable gouty patient— a most estimnble matl 
—who died from the effects of the enormous quantity df 
thia irritating poison which had been Bdministerdd'ttj 
him by a fashionable physician for many yearsL He 
paid dearly by secondary sufferings for this deceptive 
relief, for he would have liad otherwise a constitotidn to 
have lived easily to a hundred. A physician lold me 
that his father had cured himself of gout, after having 
suffered with it for many years ; he did this by plough- 
ing his own fiekb, and living on the plain food of * | 
ploughman, a mode of cure which he always spoke dim 
with pride. The genera! medical treatment does nol 
concern me further in this work, I shall therefore go on 
to tlie treatment by the " water cure." 

The general treatment of gout by the water cure, is 
by the daily practice of the sweating process, followed 
by the cold bath, the hip bath, foot bath, and douche ; 
the wann fomentation being more or less applied to the 
affected exti-emities. But there are many exceptions to 
this general plan. Where the constitution is feeble, the 
application of the wet sheet, alternating with the sweat- 
ing, or exclusively, while there is any fever or approach- 
ing attack, must be used. Though sweating is an ex- 
ceilent remedy, and highly beneficial in this disease, 
from eiToneous views of the essential nature of gout, it 
has generally been carried too far, producing irritation 



' and debility, which are by all means to be avoided. 
)yhen ibis mistake is committed, tbe patient in thrown 
back, and lias to wait longer for his restoration to a 
healthy state. Tike hip bath, as in all cases where the 
^bdoniiiuil viscera arc engnged, is aa indispensable ad- 

I junct to the treatment. The douche also jicrfurnts 
W important part in stimulating the vital functions, 
Btrejigthening the skin, and drawing morbid action and 
niatters to its surface, but, as in all coses, attending cate- 
iiilly to contraindieatioriB of its use. The water dressing, 
oc .wafni fomentation is kept constantly applied to tlie 
feet, legs, and hands, when they are painful or inflamed. 
jOn my arrival at Gracfcnbcrg, I found only one of my 

I icouatrymcn, Mr. ; he had been under treatment 

for gout for many months ; he told me that he bad 
sufTeied from it for five and twenty years; he had 
visited Carlsbad for several seasons, and bad tried all 
Other, remedies with little good results. lor the two 
winters preceding his arrival at Graefenberg, he had 
been nearly bed-ridden, suffering with unremitting 
i^verj lie had considered his case hopeless, and sought 
the water cure eontraiy to the advice of all his friends, 
and as his dernier resort. When he arrived at Graeten- 
bei^, which was at the approach of winter, he walked, 
or " rather hobbled," with tbe aid of two sticks, " and 
his nose nearly touching the ground." During tho 
whole of this aevoru season., and very severe it is, he went 
through the full treatment, and was NOT confinrd one 
DAT TO THE HOUSE ; he made progress beyond any saa- 



134 



giiine liojiea lie coiilil have formed, bis fever couipletclf 
dieappcurcf], and his appetite and sleep returned, and 
were better than ho had cnjuyed at any interval for 
more than a duEcu years. In the spring he walked 
creel witli only one stick, earricd more from habit than 
for use. The following winter he pursued the same 
treatment, but with greater energy, going every morning 
from the sweating process under the douche. By this 
overdoing he lost ground, and though enjoying excellent 
health, there was a return of stifliiees in the legs. The 
incessant attacks of gout with which he hatl been afflicted 
had become few and far between, occurring at intervals 
of months, and these attacks being relieved in a few 
days by appropriate treatment. At the lime of our 
meeting he had corrected the error he had fallen into, 
by diminishing the Ireatmcnl, bad become stronger, and 
walked up steep ascents with tolerable ease. I left him 
full of hope of a favourable issue. I bad a letter from 
him some time ago, in which be gives me a favourable 
account, full of hope, and expressing satisfaction. But 
it will take some time to regain the lee-way that has 
been lost, I tbink ; but it is a pleasant lite to lead. 

When an attai'k of gout comes on, if the fit is accom- 
panied by much constitutional disturbance, the general 
treatment is arrested; instead of sweating, the patient 
must lie in the wet sbcett and the temperature of the 
bath Ijc raised to 60 or 80 degrees, in which the pa- 
tient remains for five or ten minutes, the whole body 
being well rubbed during the interval he is in ihe 



nt^j the bath conUiaing ten or twelve inches of water. 
I'he hip bath, when used, must be of the same tempera- 
LG warm fomentation must be constantly applied 
> the joint. I omitted to mention tliat during the 
leral treatment of gout, the warm fomentation is, in 
E majority of cases, worn on the abdomen. This gon- 
letnan told me that during an attack of gout, while 
ieing rubbed for thirty-five minutes in the shallmv chilled 
«WA, according to order, while under an attack, his fee!- 
■■!bg of healthy appetite came on eo intensely, that be en- 
treated for a piece of dry bread, and could hardly hold 
out with patience to the end of the process trom hunger. 
KThis shews clearly how this bath relieves morbid action, 
Hlmd how salutary it is. 

I shall add another case or two. Mr. D , director 

general of the schools at Hambui^h, a grandfather, a 
moGt intelligent, amiable man, told me the following : — 
" 1 have been here nine months ; during the last ten 
^ears I have been nearly deprived of exercise, by being 
itlmost always under an attack of gout. The state of 
Bflny general health you may suppose from this. Since 
i I have been under this water treatment, / have not been 
wamfined one dar/ to the house, and you see I mount the 
fthills as gaily as the best of you young ones. Some time 
igo I was attacked at table with giddiness (from gor- 
■-Itiandizing 1) and every symptom of approaching apo- 
plexy. I was immediately led to my room, where for a 
time I was insensible ; when my senses returned, 1 fouTid 
myself being rubbed in the " shallow bath," and by and by 




136 



discovered that Prieseuitz was at my side ; I was rubbed 
for three-quarters of an hour, when I was quite relieved. 
It was, in fact, an apoplectic stroke, which I fimilj believe 
would ha\fc been fetal with apy other trept^^f. I was 
us well as ever the next day. I am so satisfied with the 
progress I have already made, that I shall remain here 
this winter." I shall give two more cases — one to shew 
the after effects of the " water cure," the other the ad- 
vanced ^e at which it may be used with safety. One 

day, dining with the Princess S , the gentleman at 

luy side. Count , looked so robust and hearty, that 

1 asked him wliat f/e was doing at the " water cure ?" He 
replied, " Oli! I was curetl seven years ago bore of 
gout, and I have only returned to embrace my old friend 
PriessnitK, and see how matters are going on." The 
otlior case is that of the Prussian Field-Marshal Tichtell, 
wlio, in his dgktij-fowlh year was at Graefenberg, going 
through all the process of " the cure" for gout. I used 
to walk about with him very frequently ; he told me it 
was bis third visit, having never been able to remain but 
a very short time, lie added, " I wish I had known of 
lliis sooner, for I shall never forget what I suffered from 
gout during a campaign. By the greatest care in diet, ' 
aud indeed in everything, and avoiding all remedies, I 
have been preserved lo tell the tale," 

Any one goiug to Graefenberg will see dozens of 
cases on which to make their observations. 



t I' 



.\r 



^^ RHEUMATIC FEVER. ' 



--in- ;.; * . .aii 

T^;is a yery painful affection; it is produced byjj^v 
lOi^pil^g , ifi damp clothes^ cooling too rapidly aftei:! 
pi^fpse^pf^rspiratipn^ sleeping or sitting too long pn ne^w 
nm^e hay|. or op, the grass^ &c; but even these causes i 
sol^ou^ qr n^^r excite the disease in healthy or = tf^ii^. . 
per,^^, individuals. Those who are the subjects of ife. 
hayej been . generally preparing the way by irregular 
liyj[pg,-r4epres^ion, or over-working of the nervQUf . 
sysl^m, drinkjipg spirituous liquors^ &c. The mo^t , 
terrible j attapjcs I remember, were in persons who had; 
dr^n^.iqach rum. Over-working the brain, depresaing 
st^t^ip qf ijoind, in fact, anything that vitiates, or debili- 
talies tl^.qon^titutional powers, produces the disposition, 
or , liaji^iiity to be attacked. It is attended by a high 
degree pf constitutional irritation ; different joints hev 
coijne awqlled and red, generally increasing towards 
night, and aggravated by the heat produced by the 
bed-clothes. Sometimes it will suddenly leave one 
part, and as quickly appear in another. The stomach 
and alimentary canal are always, more or less, affected ; 
there is a tendency to perspiration. There is always 



13S 



nHEUMATIC FEVEB. 



danger of the heart beuumittg attacked The* l6rg«Bt 
lieart I ever saw, was in a master baker, who died of 
cholera, shortly after recovering from acute rheumatic 
gout ; it was ineredibly enormous, nearly aa large as a 
boy's head at ten years of age. He had been salivated 
for this attack, till a lai^ piece of the back part of the 
jaw came away ; and large pieces were stili exfoliating 
when the cholera mercifully put an end to his suffiei^ 
ings. His poor wife was salivated too, by not rubbing 
in the mercury with sufficient care. The treatment Uy 
Water has been very successful in this, as well as in all 
other fevers. The great object is to allay irritatiOD 
and fever, and produce copious perspiration ; but while 
the symptoms are running high, it is better at first to 
apply the " wet sheet," and if i>erspiration comes on 
easily in it, to let it go on ; if not, and the sheet becomes 
quickly heated, and dry, it must be changed frequently, 
till this state is removed. This should be followed by 
a good washing, and nibbing in a bath containing Httle 
more than half a toot of water, from 65° to 85° Fahren- 
heit, according to the strength of the patient. The 
patient should remain in it ten, twenty, or thirty mi- 
nutes, or till he is well cooled and refreshed — sufficient 
rest being given after this. If there is little fever, copious 
sweating may be brought on, without any danger of 
aggravating the symptoms. The wet bandages should 
be kept constantly applied to the joints affected — re- 
newing them ever}' quarter or half hour. By pursuin;; 
this system steadily, a few days, sometimes Iebb, remove 



» 



CHfiOMtC RHEUMATISM. 139 

all the urgent symptouiB. When recovery is taking 
place, the patient should go through the sweating pro- 
cess, or wet sheet aud bath, at least ouce a-day. A 
chilled hip-balb must also be tidcen ouce or twice a-day. 
Cold water must be takeu in large quantities, half a 
tumbler at a time. In most cases of rheumatic fever, 
the wet sheet should at first extend only &om the arm- 
pits to a few inches below the kiiees, thus leaving the 
arme and feet out. White iu the bath the patient must 
be well rubbed, particularly the painful parts ; and when 
he comes out, the wet and dry coverings must be again 
immediately applied. 



CHRONIC RHEUMATISM. 

Thie diseased state is seldom found alone, there is 
always more or less suffering in some of the internal 
organs. The external pains, swelling, and stiffness of 
the joints, the too great quantity of "joint oil" making 
them puffy, and the dropsical state that often accom- 
panies, produce a general as mell as a local disturbance, 
as well as being kept up by general derangement. It 
may be divided into three kinds ; — in the Jirst, there is 
more irritation and fever ; the pains do not remain in 
the same place, and are increased bj the heat of the bed ; 
the second, may be characterized by its making the 
patient a good weather-guide ; he can tell when it is 




going to rain, &c., whicli, thougU useful, in cine rmjsp, 
is very disagreeable in another ; and, ■ each delioaie 
powers of perception bad better be got rid of as soon 
as poHsible ; iiicreosed waniitli docs tiot (tggravate tlie 
symptoms, but rather seems to leBsen tbeni. In tbo 
latt hind, the structure of the joints 19 changed in its 
natuiQ, and thickened, givini; them a dcfonncd sjtpear- 
auce ; in nil these etates there is great danger of thfl 
heart becoming affected; it is the complication raafU 
Boriously to be dreaded, for modern pathologists haffS 
discovered tliat it very frequently takes place. "I^e 
tendency to this distressing state is often brought on, 
imd greatly aggravated, by an irregular and stiniulatiiig 
mode of living, as well as by everything that weakew 
the powers of the skin, and destroys the cquihbrium gf 
the internal machinery. The poisoning effects of meri 
cury performs its full share in producing, and prGdis7 
posing to this state, assisting the action of cold and 
moisture. 

Lumbago and sciatica follow in its train, and arc 
sometimes mistaken for other complaints having similar 
symptoms. When rheumatism attacks the covering.of 
the ribs, it is sometimes mistaken for pleurisy. 



Treatment. — Gout and rheumatism were amongst 
the first complaints that Priessnitz tieated in great 
numbers, and was most successful in. They are etJU to 
be seen at Graefenbei'g, at all ages, and in all their 
varieties. 



0ffmnUi 'AfiBUJUXtlM. 



141 



dttmt tbrkpMtitt.''^ Wheto life i^tiertt fe fit ftrt'iitl' be* g^WS 
aiH)il^htl^'^e^ihgpfr6»cefsdi']][igkt^&tid^tt 
b^^thd cold' 0^ ^chitted batth, a hip, or $itz'b^h-^'€?te^fetf 
bWdtfk Uw-' f tb^ ' Bftoming, sometimes the doiich^v > ■ Th^ 
I>»rtd(<j|ir<^eted' ii^ls kept enveloped in the iimrta fome«!il^ 
fiiifa ^' >ail^ ' i|i id sometimes found Tery UsefUl io httVe 
fh^tti #ell' iMibbed for ten min^tes^ br ft qija^«A^ off ^ dd 
h»€^, '^^itfr <h€l litad; cbnstantfy dipt in cold wat6h»' -^^^^ 
^^'Hie W^l^iheert'in tl^eTttdrttlhg^ Instead of thi'siv^aflfj^ 
i^i'iri^^if'gTH^at'ifiany easfes, foutid to taswer betti6i*V iri 
dtft^^i '^iAy'a niix^d treatment id foiind '{^f^i^btel 
WBihth^'Abiidhfe is taken, it is better, fit^'a^geri^faf! 
^1^,'Wi^bid the pdrt affected, for it ofteh M^^ thief 
pki«; ^ttd Ihilfeafes fhfe iti-itation. Btitwhenit is^^li^t 
ariA'^th^'piatiettt in toleiiable health, it reto6Vfe6 tlie 
^ifiti tt!'6h(fe. Pritesbiti, as I have said, is agdnst^^thg 
use of flannel, and will make no exceptions. I" thWK 
Hi' i^ Hii-ori^. 'Hiere are many cases of rhi^tttatism 
^«^F«hb\ild birder its use till the cure wa6 fti: ^. 



/-. '• . 



: ■. : : I 



■ '. ! 



I ' 



' f 



^ ;■■ 



Pt . t' 



• .'/ l-'ti ' f . : I I l' ( • 



>' ( ■< » * t >. J I » i' .(I 



>'->») 31 U;/ 




SCROFULA. 



I SHALL give a mere outline of what we call scrofula, 
reserviog the subject la all its pathological details for 
another work of a more purely medical character. In 
all parts of Germany, where it is to be met with at evevj 
tiimi in one or other of its numberless forms, it is call^ 
(At £nfflish disease — supposed by the many to have had 
its origiii) or being more prevalent in the British Isles. 
This uotiQQ no doubt arose Irom its having been cured 
by Ibe royal touch ; immense numbers going to London 
to be touched by royalty. Very many were cured, or 
had tbeii' diseased states much mitigated by the power- 
ful effects of hojie and faith, united to the journey, and 
the absence for a time irom an unhealthy sitnatipu, and 
other causes. 

This diseased state is transmilied from the parent to 
the child. It has its origin in the want of light and heat, 
in humidity, aliment of a poor or unhealthy description, 
or want of exercise in a clear atmosphere ; for eserciee 
ta)cen where the air is htimtd and the situation obscure, 
is very different to that taken where the position ib elft- 
vated, and the air equable, dry, and bracing. 



SCBOFULA. 



143 



The first effect on a child (for it is at a tender age 
I'that this disease generally commences) of the causes I 
I have enumerated, is, a languid state of the vital powers, 
I the nutritive matter is vitiated, and the powers of assimi- 
' lation imperfect. From this arises an excess and want 
of coherence in the white tissues ; the bones are not 

t sufficiently solid ; there is excessive irritability of the 
absorbent system ; the nervous system is too much de- 
Tetoped, more particularly in the great centres, and 
there is great sensibility to impressions on the nervous 
system, and in the vessels circulating the while fluids. 
This state constitutes the scrofulous diathesis. 
The externa] signs of this temperament are more 
particularly observed in the form and colouring. The 
il subjects of it have generally a ronnded form, narrow 

chest, large head, a fine smootli stin, in which the blood- 
^^ vessels are easily seen, light and soft hair, lai^e blue 
^^V ^es, the upper lip and nostril more puffed than natural, 
^^B a clear blonde complexion, except on the cheeks and 
^^B lips, where it is of a brilliant red, the flesh sofl: compared 
^^k with other children, but there are cases where great 
^^ paleness prevails. However, all these evident signs are not 
indispensable to constitute scrofula ; it may be met with 
in robust constitutions, with an opposite complexion. 
This state, by being transmitted from generation to 
generation, changes the nature of the whole constitution, 
and produces great degeneration from the healthy and 
natural type. Children constituted in the manner I 
have described, being acted upon by an unhealthy mode 




of living, by the alternate actions of cold, heat, and 
(Inmp, become the stihjecfs of all the varieties of scvofu- 
loiis diwasc. Tlie lips become more swelled, the eyes, 
noee, ears, and face become cngoi^ed, attended with 
more or less heat in the [tarts : an nnhealthy mucus in 
seeretcd from the nostrils; inflammalion of the eyes of 
an obstinate character tabes place; the gums become 
red, spongj-, and easily made to bleed ; the hands and 
feet, from slight effects of cold, become swelled, of a 
bluish red, and subject to chilblains; the glands of the 
neck enlarged, sometimes the ears are in the same stale ; 
an injury done to the extremities by a blow or fall 
causes swelling, with heat and pain, producing a kindof 
inflammation which remains permanent. Somettnw 
the simple action of cold is sufficient to cause a swellii^ 
of the elbows, knees, or feet ; the ekin becomes livid, 
slight painful ulcerations take place, with discharges of 
unhealthy matter, and the heads of the bones become 
affected. These states are generally observable in child- 
hood and to the age of puberty, and sometimes continued 
beyond. I have only thus far described its extenul 
action ; but the internal organs are not exempL Tbe 
digestive organs become affected ; the mesenteric glami! 
become enlarged, and are easily felt like amass ofkout!, 
by pressing the abdomen; the extremities slirtnk; I 
cough, with great expectoration, comes on, witll gtMI 
danger of further mischief in the chest. These synip- 
toms sometimes diminish and disappear as the indindttit 
jToaches years of maturity. Grcfwn-»tp peraxn']^ 



f.^paTfinI|ly gftod ,cons^ilulion,,,but ,9tiUJvivir)g ^le^pf;; 
^i^P()sition, [ly, ^xcesphic depress^Jofv of EpirJ^, lofig coif; 
{tt^emeat, with a bad tlicf:,,in an vuihe^ltliy prispn, are 
attacked by, it, often with great rapiditj:. When this 
I ^rofiilous aCate goes on without being relieved, exfen- 
^Bgvp Ei^ji^uratioa , and discharges of a bai^ and charac- 
^Kfjlistic quality , become formed; when external disor- 
ganizations and foripations of various kinds arc effected, 
it .attacks the internal organs, and"the patien^p sink 
I ^^t^ chronic inflarpination of the abdominal appa|T^t>i).^i 
f,,«f ih^ viscera of the cheat. As in many other dis- 
Pjppees, medicinal treatment has been found very ineffec- 
tual. Iodine has been found to do.moi;?. harra.|._l,han 
good,. and is n dangerous remedy; the g|;e.at f^li^^'c 
has been placed on change of air, diet,, and baUiing. 
From what I have seen of the " water cure," it, has ,bepn 
very successful in the trcatmrnt of scrofula. The clp- 
vatcd position in which these establishments are formed' 
the pure air constantly inhaled, regular exercise, (he 
tonic effect of a scientific system of bathing, the increased 
powers of digestion, forming new and healthy nutritive 
niittter in large (luaiilitics, do wonders. But, independ- 
ently of all these powerful hygienic means, pure watpr, 
applied externally, and absorbed in laxgc quantilic? 
internally, has an efl'ect purely its own, which caniipt,in 
the present stale of our knowledge, and, 1 bcUeKCt, fleycr 
can, be fully explained; nor is it necessary- ■ We pan 
study the effects of gravitation, without knowing whn,t 

tvitation is. We can ohser^-e the v^ipd pbfjjoip^ 



146 



of sensibility, and the didercnt sympathies of the boms 
body, without ever knowing what they are. 

Tlie treatment of scrofula by water embraces the 
whole of what is yet known of the modes of its applica- 
tion ; no two cases can be treated ahke. The age and 
relative strength of the patients, the complications, and 
the extent of the ravages which the disease has catised, 
arc the only guides ; everything depends upon the tact 
and discrimination of rhe practitioner, and his knowledge 
of the disease and the remedy. There were a nutntier 
of children under treatment at Graefenberg when I wae 
there, and one grown-up jierson — a young lady from 
Hamburgh. She left before me, perfectly cured ; she 
was very handsome, and the belle of our small commu- 
nity ; she had been about twelve months trader treat- 
ment, and commenced it with all the external charac- 
teriatics of scrofida, which sJio had had from infimcy; 
her general health was also much impaired, attended 
with considerable suffering. For the first few months 
there was no evident change, except in the geneial 
health, which had become perfect. At this time the 
feet and legs began lo swell, soon succeeded bycopious 
discharges from the feet; this continued for three 
months, when it ceased, leaving her in the state I have 
described, without mark or external swelling. During 
the time that this crisis went on in the extremities, the 
warm fomentation waa kept continually applied, wearing 
large over-all boots, taking her daily exercise with her 
accustomed facility. The general treatment consisted 



SCROFULA. 147 

in the sweating process, wet sheet, cold and chilled 
baths, hip bath, foot bath, compresses, and douche, and 
the plentiful drinking of cold water. In spinal com- 
plaints proceeding more or less from this cause, the 
water cure is equally efficacious. There were several 
cases that I noted with great interest, which made very 
rapid progress. Priessnitz allows no back-boards or 
instruments of any kind. When the water cure becomes 
more studied, of course it will soon be discovered what 
can be made valuable adjuncts, and what not. 



l2 



DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 



TUBERCULAR CONSUMPTION — BRONCHITIS — ASTHMA — 
HOOPING COUGH— AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART. 

In this work I shall confine myself, in treating of each of 
these diseased states, to a few introductory remarks, 
directing the attention of the reader more particularly 
to the treatment. I have seen all the diseases above- 
mentioned, except tubercular consumption, cured by the 
treatment under discussion. I shall begin with tuber- 
cular consumption. Priessnitz, when he has reason to 
suppose that this disease is formed, and the symptoms 
are unequivocal, refuses to submit the- patient to the 
^^ water cure." But numbers can be seen at Graefen- 
berg who have all the outward signs — such as rapid loss 
of flesh, incessant cough, and spitting of blood. There 
was one case of a man thirty-five years old, whom I ex- 
amined very attentively ; he had decidedly a deposit of 
tubercles, and a small cavity already formed; he re- 
mained about four months, and left without any appa- 
rent change having taken place, and the symptoms un- 
diminished. Priessnitz called the spitting of blood 



I 



DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 149 

a transfer of haemorrhoids. When consumption is ad- 
vanced, the water cure is only a palliative; but in 
very young subjects, where there is every predisposi- 
tion, and even where some destruction of the lung has 
taken place, this method, judiciously applied, will, in the 
majority of cases, place the individual in safety. When 
the individual is past seventeen or eighteen, I have no 
grounds for holding out any hope. The following case 
I consider of the highest interest, and I shall present it 
to the reader with all its details. Soon after my arrival at 

Graefenberg, I was introduced to the Princess S a, 

at her request ; all her family were under the treatment, 
including herself and sister. This lady had lost four 
children with affections of the brain and stomach, after 
having consulted all the first men in Europe, and was 
without hope of eventually saving two of the survivors, 
a girl and a boy. The four who had died, had been 
carried oflF at different ages, from two to seven years, by 
convulsions and vomiting, which nothing would arrest. 
The most violent and energetic means were had recourse 
to. The last, of the age of seven, vomited for fourteen 
days before the fatal termination. Hearing from some 
of her neighbours of the " miraculous cures" they had 
made at Graefenberg, she determined to go and consult 
Priessnitz. The little girl, six years old, had incessant 
cough, which had been gradually increasing for tluree 
years ; she expectorated large quantities of thick yellow 
sputa, frequently mixed with blood; she had hectic 
fever, and was reduced to skin and bone. This state 



niSEASES OF ■ 



was complicated with an affection of the brain, And 1 
tendency to convulsions ', her physicians declflred t 
case to be one of consumption, and that the child cou!a 
not last longer than six months. Eighteen months be- 
fore this she had had an attack of convulsions ; blisters 
were applied, from the nape of the neck to the loins, 
and the child was confined for six months to her bed. 
Priessnitz said there were still hopes, and that it was 
"scrofula fallen on the chest." During the first six 
months' treatment by the " water cure," the child gained 
flesh and appetite, the fever ceased, but the congh and 
Hpitting, mised with blood, were undiminished. The 
family physician, who had accompanied them to 
Graefenberg, was still against proceeding with the 
" water cure," saying it was utterly useless. When the 
mother asked what then he would propose, he said, "au 
issue in the arm." " Oh !" she replied, " thank you ; 
you have apphed that once, and the child was laid up 
for several months, and narrowly escaped witb the 
erysipelas it brought on." These contending opinions, 
however, had such an effect upon h^ own healtli, that 
she had frequent fainting fits. In this state of things, 

hearing there was an English practitioner at G , she 

desired to consult me ; on examining the child's chest, 1 
found the whole of the right side very dull on percus- 
sion. On placing the ear, there was a strong bronchial 
rSle throughout ; under the right collar-bone, there was 
a small cavity, and the gai^ouillcment was distinct. I 
gave the following opinion at once, in these words: 



DISEASES OF TUE CHEST. 



"You have no chance, except by the 'water cure,' and 
I am happy lo say that I "agree with PriesBnitz in think- 
ing there is a chance ; the child is daily gfuniog flesh, 
raid the great point is to keep up the nutritive powers, 
keep off fever, and relieve UTiLation in the chest as much 
as possible." I added, " If it was my child, I should 
send it &om the low situation here in the town, up to 
Graefenherg, now that the summer is coming on." 

Priessnitz was consulted, and as he had nothing to 
say against it, the child was sent up. Her progress 
during the summer was very rapid ; she became quite 
fat, with a ruddy complexion ; but the coughing and 
spitting, though cousidei'ably diminished, still continued, 
and still mixed with blood. About a week or ten days 
after I had first seen ihe ciiild, I took Doctor Coq, an 
intelligent, and one of the lan ding physicians of Ghent, 
(who was going througli the cure,) to see it ; his opinion 
and advice were similar to my own. Towards the end 
of October, the mother returned, after a temporary ab- 
■flence, and when I told her I was on the eve of depar- 
ture for Nice, she asked me if 1 did not think it would 
be a good change for the child, as during the severity of 
the vwnter, the cliild was lethargic, and frequently could 
not go out ; and that she spent much of her own time 
(having also an affection of the chest) by the heated 
stove, and that all tlie physicians she had ever spoken 
to, had advised her to go to Nice. I replied, "I had 
no doubt, if the child pursued the same treatment, much 
could be giuned, aa the great desideratum was, that the 




1.52 



LSES OF THE CHEST. 



cliild sloiild be always out in the air." Prieasnitz was 
coufiulled, and ae be hod a suspicion it was a judicious 
measure, he did not oppose it. The child was then 
placed under my care for tljc winter, and she removed 
with her lamily to Nice. The result was, the child 
weut on gaining Hesh, eleepiiig tlie whole night for 
nights together, without coughing, the chest becoming 
every week clearer, and I now see nothing to prevent a 
perfect recovery. 

The treatment has been as follows: — Every morning, 
at about six o'clock, she is placed silting in a bath, con- 
taining about nine inches of water, at a lempcrature of 
about 65° of Fahrenheit ; in this she Is well rubbed all 
over during a period of fifteen or twenty miuutes ; she 
is then dressed, and goes out to walk for an hour, drink- 
ing several tumblers of cold water during ibc exercise. 
The hath is repeated every night, an hour or two before 
bed-time, the same as in the morning. When taken out 
of the bath, a double piece of linen steeped in cold water, 
and well wning out, is placed on the chest, covering the 
fi-ont [lart, and reaching from the collar bones lo the pit 
of the stomach. This is eouiplelely protected from the 
air by a similar covering of djy Unen; it b worn night 
and day, and changed at noon for a fresh one. When 
the cough was violent at night, and it sometimes lasted 
for hours, the ajtplication of a fresh wet compress was 
found (when the idea of trying it first struck me) always 
lo rcUeve it, I should not omit to mention that soon 
after going to Fricssnitz, she was attacked with a violent 



DISEASES OF "1 



153 



■couvulsion, ending in a GtiiTcned state of the whole body, 
Pand complete insensibihty. When this occurred, Priess- 
nitz happened fortunately to be in the town ; he put her 
at once into a " shallow chilled bath," where she was 
I rubbed for three-quarters of an hour, before she shewed 
I any signs of consciousness or of life. During this period, 
Ijshc was taken out three times for a few minutes, placed 
a bed, and rubbed with wet bands. When this state 
l.is coming on, there is great dilatation of the pupils, and 
s since been prevented going any further by " head 
i" which she has taken every day since this attack. 
I For the last five months the head has been perfectly free, 
[ but the head baths are still continued once a day at noon. 
I I may mention, en passant, the state of her brother. He 
has had a strong disposition to the complaint of which 
his brothers and sisters have died. It conies on in the 
followhig way : — the face becomes suddenly deadly pale, 
the features shrinking, the eyes more or less flxed, the 
pupils dilated to their fullest extent, and vomiting be- 
gins. In from five to ten minutes, by the cold hip iiath, 
■ these symptoms are completely removed, and in halfiui 
hour he is out playing as well as ever. In the firet bad 
attack, before going to Priessnitz, he was treated in the 
following way: — blisters were placed on the stomach 
and all along the hack-boDe, and the raw surface dressed 
with a preparation of opium, and calomel and opium in 
lai^e (juantities given iaiernally. This was a seven 
months' business in bed and in his room. Uc is now 
past twelve years of sige, and his teeth are all completely 



154 



DISEASES OF THE CHEST. 



destroyed by the mercury. When he w«it to Graefen- 
berg, his eyes were so much affected, that there were 
great fears he would l^ecome completely blind ; for this 
he went through the water cure, and now sees perfeclly 
well. He has contkiued the IreatinenC at Nice, in a 
gentle manner, and though still a delicate boy, is in pei^ 
feet health. The diet in both these cases is cold milk, 
with bread, morning and night, and a simple dinner of 
meat, vegetables, and light pudding, and water alone as 
their beverage,* 

It must be noted that in convulsive states ptncly 
nerrons, like some kinds of epilepsy, as a general rule 
the patient must not be put in water. The treatment 
must be confined to rubbing the extremities with the 
hand dipped in water, sprinkling the face. When the 
attack is over, the head bath and foot bath may be taken, 
and other means for preventing a relapse. During an 
epileptic fit, the patient must on no account be put in a 
bath ; it only makes it worse, and last longer. 

1 will not lose this opportunity of saying a word abotit 
the climate of Nice, and which will apply equally to 
every part of Italy, of which I have had considerable 



* 1 received a letter a few days ago from the Princess, which guie me 
grefttpleaaiire, Bod confirms my prognosis. Relative i« her daaghter 
she Bays—" 3e profile de celte occasion pour voos dire que Sophie Ti 
de mieux en mieux; elle tnusse moiiiBloQs Ice joare.et ses nuiti Gont ex- 
cellenl. J'atmenTOUs dire, MoDaieor, que vous etea pour beaaeoapdaua 
cette amelioration, el je voua en remercie de tout mon ccear. Je joins en 
mille complimcQte pout Madame "Wilson, ct poor toue I'assuranee de 

X HntimenW distli^^. ** S ■<." 



pineaiis of judging. Nice is one of the worst climates that 

I any one having a bilious or dyspeptic tendency can be 

I Bent to ; they generally become vjorse, with very few ex- 

\-^eptions. In diseases of the chest, when past the age of 

I puberty, and in most cases with the ordinary modes of 

I living and treatment, it is also very prejudicial. After 

the end of February it is very bad indeed. No invalid 

n search of health should remain in the town or the 

I lower parts ; he has only to try the hills for one day or 

a week, to perceive the great contrast in the salubrity of 

the ah'. There are very few English people who, if they 

persist in taking much wine and a full diet, can stand 

I the climate of Nice or any part of Italy, for any length 

r of time, without suffermg. This error is of common 

I 'occurrence. 

ASTHMA. 

I have frequently jumped into the swimming bath at 

Gracfenberg at the same time with asthmatic patients, 

I -when the spasm and difficulty of bi-cathiog were at their 

height. It always acted iu these cases as an immediate 

I Tclicfi the fit being over before they could get out of the 

I Taath ; but it requires some caution, as it would not be 

r judicious in all cases. The general treatment for this 

\ -disease varies according to the constilotion and powers 

of the individual, and any complication from wliich he 

may be sufFering at the time. I witnessed the complete 

recovery of five cases of long standing. 




HOOPING COUGH. 



I HJiw but one case of this, but have heard of a 
many where the greatest relief was obtaioed by ) 
" wutcr cure." In this complaiut also, the trcato 
must vary aceording to the age and strength of the 
patient, &e, 

I shall illustrate the general Irealment by the follow- 
ing case : — A gentleman who had been a long time at 
Gracfcuberg, took ine to see the child of hb Ualot in the 
town below. A short time before, he had called there, 
and heard the child hooping violently ; it was very much 
reduced, and evidently very ill. He asked the parents 
what they were doing for it? They said the surgeon of 
the town was attending, and giving it au infusion of 
heartsease. He entreated them to send for Priessnitz, 
and as they hesitated, he advificd them to try the warm 
compress to the chest and stomach. This relieved the 
child so much, that they requested Priessnitz to call 
He ordered a hip bath morning and evening, with the 
chill barely taken off the water, and to remain in it 
twenty minutes, a sweating and wet sheet the alternate 
morninga, followed by a bath at sixty-five degrees Fah- 
renheit for five minutes, a wet compress well protected, 
to be worn between the shoulders, the same on the 
abdomen, to drink plentifully of water, which had bceu 
Bomc time in the house, that it might not be Loo cold. 



CROUP. 157 

and to have as much fresh air as possible. The pa- 
roxysms daily decreased in intensity, and in a fortnight 
they had quite ceased. A gentle treatment was con- 
tinued for some weeks afterwards, and the child became 
robust, and regained its flesh. 



CROUP- 

This disease, notwithstanding all the leeching, blister- 
ing, calomel, and emetics, is often fatal to children. It 
is very easily cured by water. As soon as any affection 
of the windpipe, or the peculiar crowing cough, charac- 
teristic of this disease, is perceived, the patient should 
be enveloped in the " wet sheet," the feet and ankles 
being left out. If there is much fever, and the sheet 
becomes hot within five or ten minutes, it must, at the 
expiration of fifteen minutes, be changed for another; 
and so on, according to the intensity and duration of 
the heat. When this has ceased, the child must be 
transferred to a bath or tub, containing seven or eight 
inches of water, not quite cold, in which it must be 
rubbed for five, ten, twenty, or forty minutes, according 
to circumstances ; it may then be put to bed, or held on 
the knee, having previously placed the warm, wet com- 
press on the neck and chest. As soon as all fever and 
irritation are reduced, the child should be put through 
the sweating process, wearing the compresses while in 



158 



AFFECTI0M9 OF THE HEART. 



the blanket, and tLia of course followed by b genenl 
washing in chilled water for a few minutes. By this 
simple means all danger is put out of the question, < 
the disease quickly eubdned. 



AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART. 



The heart sympathizes with all the organs, and, in 
fact, with every part of the body ; but it is particularly 
under the influence of the brain and stomach — a thought 
will suspend its action or make it beat with violence ; by 
putting wine or spirits, too much food, tartar emetic, 
opium, or any other medicinal poison, in the stomach, 
the heart immediately feeis the effects. I have already 
mentioned how it is affected by gout, and particularly 
by rheumatism. Many persons ai"c supposed to have 
disease oflhe heart, and arc treated for it, when, in fact, it 
is only sympathizing with diseased action in some other 
part of the body ; but it often happens, after it has been 
tormented in this way for a longer or shorter time, that 
it becomes changed in its structure, getting too large or 
too small, too thick or too thin, too hard or too soft ; the 
valves also become injured in different ways. When it 
is not much diseased, and the palpitations &c. are in a 
great measure sympathetic, the morbid symptoms quickly 
give way under a judicious general treatment by the 



AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART. 159 

"water cure;" even when evidently enlarged &c., I 
have seen all the symptoms of this state removed as the 
general health improved^ nothing shewing its existence 
even by the pulse or breathing, or by violent exertion 
and walking, or running up steep ascents. 



MADNESS AND INSANITY. 



This subject is of too great importance to treat in the 
cursory manner I have allowed myself in the preliminary 
observations to the treatment of other diseases ; but as 
the two following cases are of great interest, the mode 
of treatment cannot be too quickly known ; I shall there- 
fore present them without further comment. 



CASE OF MADNESS. 

This is, a specimen of one of those formidable cases in 
which Priessnitz, though making so light of them, shews 
his genius, tact, and knowledge of the power of water. 
Soon after going to Graefenberg, I was fortunate enough 
to witness the following : — 

A gentleman arrived soon after me, with all the cha- 
racteristics of intense melancholy and hypochondriasis : 
I made his acquaintance at once. I found that he had 
been occupied all his life, and subjected to much confine- 
ment, in a government bureau ; he was upwards of six 



MADNFSS ANR INSANTTV. 



161 



» 



feet in height, and large in proportion, bnt with a we:ik, 
tremulous voice, almoat npprooohing to chlkltah treble. 
It aeeiiiR that be had been in a state of meluncholy for 
many years, and suffering greatly from his digestive 
organs; two montha before his arrival at Graefenberg 
he bad lost his wife and two children in one week. He 
had groat fear of water, and was put upon the moat 
gentle course of treatment ; he often would say to me, 
" My thoughts are so hoiTJble, I think I sliall go mad." 
One day, while we were at dinner, Priessnitz was called 
out of the room, and I soon heard that the " CommLs- 
aioner" was mad. I followed, and found him in a shallow 
tepid balb, kept down and rubbed by half a dozen strong 
bath eervanta. He inhabited a largo room like the ward 
of a hospital, where fourteen gentlemen lived together, 
having their beds merely separated by a sUgiit screen ; 
those who feel the want of society and have a disposition 
to melancholy prefer this, and it is made for such. It 
appears that just before dinner, one of the servants saw 
there was something more than usual the matter with 
him ; by-and-bye his state became evident, he went 
raving mad ; he attempted to throw himself out of the 
window, and was only prevented by two strong servants. 
His legs and feet were placed in water and well nibbed, 
while Priessnitz was sent for, who, on his arrival, ordered 
him into the bath ; at first, the water was chilled, biU as 
the symptoms did not decrease, cold water was gradually 
added, hour after hour, till it became (juite cold ; at in- 
tervals a tumbler of water was poured over the liead, and 



ifla MADNKSa AND INSANlWi " 

finuing that h still kept up its lieal, A'ded/inJer iJf 'dol^' 
Eprinp; water was emptied quietly' oti the liead 'i*\*tTy ' 
quarter of an hour or thirty minutes. Dnring'flie'l 
four hours he made repeated efforts to get (nit of' I 
bath, ruuttei'ing continually some unintelligible SentenM 
Now and then the armpits were felt, to discover wlicther 
they were reduced in temperature wilh the rest of the 
bctdy. Priessnitz, who wascalmness personified, ihongYtt 
it a bad case, from the length of time that this state of 
things had been in preparation; he asked me very 
quietly what metlieal men did in such cases, and how 
they terminated. I told him we bled, leeched, blistei'ed, 
&c, &c., and that the patient very often ended his d^ 
in an asylum ; he gave a look which expressed that he 
was satisfied. After the man had been nine houra in 
the bath, the symptoms gradually decreasing, he fell 
asleep, Priessnitz happened to come in just at this 
time, and said, " That will do, lei him rest twenty 
minutes longer." At the end of this time he was put to 
bed. I visited him next morning at six o'clock, he was 
quite calm, had slept well, and had no recollection of aky- 
Ijiinff that had occurred, complaining only of feeling 
tired. At eight o'clock he ate his breakfast of bread tmd 
milk m usual ; he remained in bed during the day, and 
had two or three " wet sheets," Falling into a peispi- 
ration, he was, after it had continued two hours, put in 
the "shallow chilled bath," and washed for seven or 
eight minutes. The next day he was able to walk about ; 
_a profuse eruption of small pustules coming out all over 



MAJpt|aJE;^$l and insanity. 1 63 

tl^q.l^ofly; ,|*|riesgnitz had predicted this when he had 

bc^ ajttqiit an ,]:^our in the bath. He remained about 

■ ' '' , I ii j 
twa .^iQHths longer at Graefenberg, when he was obliged 

to.feaye;. he was somewhat better, but to have made a 

perfect, cure many months longer would have been ne- 

cessary^ A complication of diseased states, which for so 

m^y. years. have been rooting themselves in the different 

org^s, fcaiiinot be repaired or thrown oflP in so short a 

tiiwe as, people could wish, — a simple cut will not heal 

. ' . 

in |twenty-four hours, I observed that the water in the 
ba^hin which he remained so long, became, after a time, 
perfectly turbid, like muddy water, being a secretion 

1 1 * , • ■ 

from the skin ; this is always the case. During the 
whole of the scene I have described there were never 
less than from twenty to forty persons present. 



CASE OF MADNESS. 



There was another interesting case of madness which 
I shall relate — important, as differing in its nature and 
mode of treatment from the one I have already given. 
A gentleman, a little past thirty, made my acquaintance 
soon after my arrival at Graefenberg, because, as he 
said, I was an Englishman; he was at Graefenberg to 
be cured of a tendency to fits of insanity. We became 
great friends— he always met me with a passage from one 
of Byron's poems. — "I rove the young Highlander o'er 



> 1..'' 
M 2 



1(14 



the dark heath." He would often repeat, "Do you lilte 
Byron ?" When I answered, ho was a Prince of Poets, 
he would any, "Yon'ro a gonOeman. — la not Preissnitz 
the grenlest man that ever lived? and the ' Water Cure' 
an inapirafion from Heaven?" When I replied, that I 
made no doubt when il became generally known, and 
when people lived with moderate temperance, there 
would be an end to chronic disease — there would be no 
more diseases of the heart, brain, or stomach — he wonid 
catch me np in a bruin-like embrace, and almost sqiieezie 
the breath out of me, crying — " I rove the young High- 
lander." He would add — "But wont the doctors in 
England, when you go back, kill you ?" " No," I re- 
plied ; " they only kill some of those who take their 
poisonous drugs, and with the most innocent inten- 
tions. I fiball never again take a grain of medicine of 
any kind, so I am safe ; hut they are not such desperate 
people as you imaguie, for they do not even interfere 
to protect the public from notorious quacks and im- 
postors, who kill wholesale, and -not ' with tlie best 
intentions.'" " Ah I" says he, " perhaps that is because 
those terrible persona you name make work for them in 
the end." I said, that vras rather an uncharitable con- 
struction, I could always find him within a quarter of 
a mile, by his singing his pass-word. When walking 
among the pine trees I am sure he fancied himself in 
the— 

" I.nnd of brown lieiith and shaggy wood. 
Land of thi? maTmtnia and Ibe flood." 



MADNESS AND INSANITY. 165 

He was going on very satisfactorily, when he went 
roaming, with some Other wild fellows, to the frontier 
garrison town of Neisse, where he committed some ex- 
cesses. Ou his return, fever came on, and being told 
that he was ill, I went to see him. I found him im- 
packed in the " wet sheet," quite mad, screaming out 
a splendid melange of the most brilliant passages of 
Byron, Goethe, and Schiller. The "wet sheet" was 
changed and applied above thirty times during the day ; 
he was three times rubbed in the " shallow chilled bath," 
for about thirty-five minutes each time. The next day 
it was all over. I found him again reduced to a tem- 
perate, and very piano — " I rove the young Highlander," 
and seriously repenting the culpable tricks he had played 
with himself at Neisse. When not under the influence 
of the attack, he was quite sane, only a little too en- 
thusiastic about poetry and music. 



> ' \ '• *■ 



I " 



TETANUS AND LOCKED JAW, 



• I 



This fatal disease may be brought on by distinct cstuses, 
when there is a predisposition — ^by the body being in' ai 
nervous state, or the fluids and solids altered by bkl 
living, over work, or anxiety. It takes place very fre- 
quently from a slight local injury healing baidly,'and 
forming a hard or morbid cicatrix. I have* already 
observed, that when local injuries are cured with wat^rj 
this never can or will occur. It is also produced by the 
action of cold. The last case I was called in to iti 
London, some five years ago, was caused by cold acting 
on a patient under the influence of mercury. It catne 
on slowly, with locked jaw. I sent for one of the 
talented surgeons of the London Hospital ; we applied 
blisters, gave calomel and opium, &c., but the poor 
patient died in a terrible state. This diseased state is 
divided into acute and chronic, according as it is mild 
or severe. When it is confined to the muscles of the 
jaw and throat, it is called locked jaw ; and when it goes 
further, different names, by way of distinction, are given, 
according to the part most affected. Thus it is called 
opisthotonos when the muscles of the back bend it 



TETANUS AND LOCKED JAW. 167 

backwards till it forms a bow, nearly making the head 
and heels approach. This state comes on gradually, 
becoming worse and worse, till it reaches the severest 
state. At first there is a sensation of stiffness about the 
neck, which inci^eases by degrees till it is with difficulty 
the head can be moved, accompanied by stiffness about 
the root of the tongue, and difficulty of swallowing. 
This goes on till the mouth cannot be opened, and the 
patient refuses to attempt to swallow. There is great 
pain and pressure at the pit of the stomach, which pre- 
cedes, and is soon accompanied by, violent spasms of 
the neck, and upper part of the body. When it is 
further advanced, the eyes are fixed in the sockets, and 
the whole countenance is frightfully changed. The 
abdomen is hard and tense, and the whole body 
is affected with rigid spasm and stiffness. The 
sufferings are terrible beyond description; in the end 
the patient is released from his deplorable state by a 
violent convulsion. The fatal termination often occurs 
oa : the third or fourth day, seldom going beyond the 
eighth. All do not die of this complaint, but the 
majority do not recover. When the symptoms first 
present themselves, the patient should be put through 
the sweating process, followed by the shallow chilled 
batli, in which he should be well rubbed until he is 
quite cold. When reaction takes place, and the patient 
is sufficiently rested, say four or five hours, it should be 
jrepeated ; in the interval the warm fomenting bandage 
should be applied to the abdomen, round the jaw, and 
along the spine. The hip-bath and foot-bath may also 



1G8 



TETANUS AND 1 



be uiiidc to perform mi iiuportaul pari. When there is 
mw'h irritation, and other imlicatiooB which I have 
already ineiitioncil, the " wet sheet" shoaUl be used lje- 
fore ihe sweating is attempted, or the ]>aticiit may sweat 
ii! the " wet flhoct." In some caacs the douche has been 
made u valuable adjunct, and might be in alh As 
much cold water must be taken internally, in Email 
quantities at a time, as can Imb managed ; and cold-water 
enemas administered every two or three hour*. A 
judicious comhinatioQ of these means has never yet been 
known to fail, even in the most forloni and desjtcralc 
caseB. 

Pricssnitz' first case of this disease wan a yuUDg 
dcrgyman. It was very many years ago, and he was 
pnzKlc<l, having never seen anything of the kind. The 
medical men of the town therefore attended him. Ai\er 
they declared that they could do nothing more, and that 
the case was utterly liopelcES, — Priessnitz saying also tJiat 
he saw tiu chance, an intelligent physician, Dr. Harder, 
of St. Petersbui^, who had )jpen some time at Graeten- 
berg, studying the effects of water, advised him to trj' 
what could be done. The jiaticnt was put in a txM 
hath, and rubbed for two hours by lour men ; ibc 
patient «as then put to bed for two hours. The medi- 
cal practitioners offered to bet Priessnitz all tliey were 
worth, that the patient would not recover. The ialtet 
refused to bet on such a subject. ITie patient was 
again placed in the bath, and the same pniccss gone 
ihrough. This mode of treatment was continued for 
twcniy-four hours, and lie was completely cur«d. 



HYDROPHOBIA. 



Hitherto no remedy or mode of treatment has been 
found to save the patient when attacked with this dread- 
ful malady. I regret that I did not speak to Priessnitz 
about it ; but since I left Graefenberg, a gentleman told 
me, that he heard Priessnitz say that he was sure it 
could be cured, and I have no doubt from the effects I 
have witnessed in analogous states, that he has good 
grounds for his dictum ; and I can only say that if ever 
I should be so unfortimate as to become the subject of 
the disease, I shall give express commands to be treated 
after the manner I shall presently describe, and» I think, 
with every rational hope of success. 

Every means that ingenuity could invent have been 
Already tried in vain; there is not one &ir case on 
record where recovery has taken place. All kinds of 
supposed specifics— bitters, aromatics, and sudorifics, 
the most powerfiil narcotics, have been used without 
producing any effect, as well as bleeding and all other 
antiphlogistic measures. Mercury has been Used ex- 
ternally and internally^ till salivation has taken place* 
But, after all the hopes which this means at first excited^ 



no 



■ all ibe worat aymptoms. 



it was fuuad only to increase i 
PoiHun has been opposed to poiaoii, and the bite of tlie 
SREiko was also fruitlcEs. At lust all ho]>c3 of SiLviiig the 
patient were concentrated in bnniing or cutting out the 
bitten pari as soon as porisible after the accident. 
Cupping-glasses, where the part admitted of the appli- 
cation, ^as also a jndieioiis proposition. 

tioine supposed that this disease was the effect of ihc 
imagination, and that fear and despair brought on the 
cuDiplaint. However much they may add to the djuiger, 
this siipiwsition ia not founded on fact ; for it has oftejl' 
Inken place when the pattern had forgotten ho had been 
Irilien, and found it difficult to point out the place. It 
generally occurs in hot weather, lu aliuut thirty, forty,, 
or fifty days, sometimes later, the wound eometimes. 
opens ajrain, and the patient feels a sensation rising U>' 
the throat as of cold or uf wind ; he becomes languid 
and desponding, and by-and-byc a repugnance to swftU 
low, more especially water, conies on ; he is tilled witli. 
the most fearful presentimentB. The disease make; 
rapid progress, terror succeeds to despondency, tl»e dis-, 
incliaation to drink becomes a horror of Uquids,. the< 
throat and atonnich feel in a burning heal, Rccoraptuiied 
with violent spasms of Uie former, when an attcn^ifi 
mat^le to swallow. Shaking the curtains of the bod, 
opening or shutting the door, bring on violent convut- 
sions. I shall not continue the description, suffice it to 
say, in two, three, or four days, the sufl'erings tcriiiiitat«. 



n'DHOPUOBIA. 



» 



TifflAiTMENT. — When llie bite has taken place, it is 
alWajB better, under all cdrcumstaaccs, to cauterize o^ 
cut out the part; a wet bandage should immediately be 
applied, covered with adry one, extending some distance 
about the part, changed at first every hour or two, uod 
kept applied for some time after the wound in heated. 
If this dressing can be applied immediately, I should 
have no fear of infection, even without cutting, bcin^an 
application having the power in a high degree of ex- 
tracting all morbid matters, and being ut the same time 
the best mode of healing the part, and never leaving 
after it a morbid cicatrix. When some time has elapsed 
without having had recourse to this dressing, and there 
is reason to fear thai inoculation has taken place, the 
patient must go through the sweating process, followed 
by the bath ; this can be done onee or twice a-day, being 
H salutary process when well managed. I have every 
reason to ai^e that the poison would pass through, or 
cause 'a, determination of all morbid action to tlie ski[i, if 
this process be continued till all cause for appreheosiun 
is jiasged ; the douche and partial baths might also be 
made to act an important part. When nothing has been 
done, and the first symptoms of the disease are re- 
cognised, there is no time to be lost ; I believe no pre- 
paratory treatment would now be judicious or availing, 
recourse must be hud at once to the bath. I may men- 
tion that a patient with hydrophobia cannot express 
greater reluctance or disUke to entering the bath than 
with other complaints 1 have seen, which have ended 




172 



UYDfiOFHUUlA. 



fuvourablj. A large slipper bath will answer every puPr 
poBc; itsbouldcoDtaiaabuutafoutofwatev, atfinit at the 
temperature of sixty-five or seventy degrees of Fahi-en- 
hoit, or higher if necessary. lu this the patient is made 
to sit, two or three strong persons being employed iu 
rubbing the buck and lower cstremities, with few 
vals of rest, keeping the hands constantly welted with 
water, and passing them occasionally gently 
head and face ; if the patient does not become cold 
within the first half or three quarters of an hour, a gallon 
of cold water must be added, and so on, reducing the 
temperature every thirty or forty minutes. When shiver- 
ing or chattering of the teeth comes on, the patient must 
on no account l)e taken out of the bath : when this takes 
place, the process of rubbing must be increased till the 
patient remains calm and quiet in the water; nor must 
he be taken out until the nrm-pits feel as cold as the 
rest of the body. When the [latient is quiet, and sheVE 
no desire to leave the bath, ho should still remain twenty 
minutes or half an hour, to make surety doubly sure. 

As the symptoms produced by the continued bath an 
in no two persons alike, the practitioner must be guided 
by the phenomena which present themselves during the 
treatment ; there are persons who get a sudden collapse, 
a tendency to faint, or Ixrcome bi/sterical ; in such case^ 
they must be taken out immediately, for a time, and laid 
upon a bed, and rubbed ail mer, particularly the extremi- 
ties, with the hands still moistened with water. When 
these symptoms dieappeoi', and reaction has taken placet 



^ iu I 
r t^^^ 



HYDROPHOBIA. 173 

the original treatment must be renewed ; there are cases 
where the wet sheet and hip bath might be highly useful 
in the interim. The after treatment will comprise all 
that is most applicable in the general treatment of the x 
** water cure." 

This treatment I have described, and recommend, 
after much thought — and I have not the slightest doubt 
but that it will be found successful. 



APPENDIX. 



OBSERVATIONS OF PROFESSOR PELLETAN 



ON THE 



CALORIC CURRENTS. 



APPENDIX. 



I SHALL introduce a hasty translation of some ob- 
servations of Doctor Pelletan, Professor of Physics 
to the faculty of medicine at Paris, which I think 
will be perused with great interest by many of my 
readers. He is the author of an excellent work, en- 
titled " Traite de Physique generale et medicale." 



OBSERVATIONS OF PROFESSOR PELLETAN. 

The Memoir which I now re-produce was pub- 
lished in December, 1826, in the "Medical Re- 
view.'' Probably at that time the medical world 

was not ripe for the observations which it con- 
tained; however this may be, it was taken little 
notice of, and at the present moment is little 
known. 



178 OBSERVATIONS OF PROF. PELLETAN 

I beg to submit the following observations to 
the examination of my enlightened professional 
brethren : — 

I have shewn, in the Memoir published in 1826, 
that the organic activity was in proportion to* 
the quantity of the currents of caloric which tra- 
versed the organs. Tluit the rapidity of these 
currents can be increased by the subtraction of 
external caloric^ as well as by an ea:cess of its 
natural production^ provided that in tJw first 
case^ the internal powers be sufficient to supply 
the demand. 

There are a number of facts in the practice of 
medicine which prove, that restoring the organic 
action, weakened or suspended, is one of the most 
powerful means of curing disease. 

Cold baths and affusions have been employed to 
awaken the general powers of the constitution ; but 
they were only applied in a transitory and imper- 
fect manner. Edwards has proved ,that winter 
renders the animal economy iwor^ apt for the pro- 
duct ion of heat; the daily application of artiEciaJ 
cold ought to produce the same effect. 

A great number of facts obtained without any 
preconceived theory, shew that cold water has a 
curative action in the highest degree. 



OS THE CALORIC CURRENTS. 179 

It is then but rational to believe that the cura- 
tire effects of cold water are a powerful medical 
means, applicable to a great number of diseased 
states, and ought to be made known. I shall only 
add a word on the employment of the sweating pro- 
cess. It had already occupied a prominent place in 
OUT treatment, but it must be confessed we were 
deficient in the means of producing it at will, and, 
above all, without running some risk of doing more 
harm than good in the attempt. 

The method of Priessnitz appears rational, cura- 
tive, and safe. It only remains for me to repeat 
my memoir, with a few notes. 



MEMOIR ON THE PHENOMENA OF HEAT WHICH 
ARE PRODUCED IN LIVING BEINGS. 

It is an opinion, generally received and confirmed 
by all observations, that phenomena of heat, more 
or less evident, take place in all organized beings 
actually living, and this coincidence is sufficiently 
general, to have impressed on physiologists that 
caloric was the principal excitant of the ot-gans, and 
the cause which produced and modifiied the execu- 
tion of their functions. 

If this be the case, the study of the phenomena 

n2 



ISO 



OBSEUVATIOXS OF I'llOF. rEI.LF.TAN 



of lipftt in tlie organic' systein is intere-sting in tlie 
highest degree to the physiologist anil tlie prnc- 
titioner. 

It may in fact be remai-kod, that much research 
lias heen directed to ascertain the proper tempera- 
ture of living beings, and to assign the causes; 
these .=«;ieiitific researclies have ah*eady T)een crowned 
with important results; but the physiologist study- 
ing the vital phenomena, has found but few and im- 
perfect relation.? between these phenomena and the; 
temperatures observed. A number of ereatiires 
with vital powers of great activity, possess but a 
very low temperature ; the greater part, instead of 
having in re.ality any fixed temperature, have m 
ffict only that by which they ore surrounded, s 
have the power of supporting its change with 
little inconvenience, that they merit the name of 
organized beings of variable temperature. 

Warm-blooded animals, whose internal organs 
possess in general a more elevated temperature, 
more steady, and more indispensable to the sustain- 
ing of their existence, do not present the less the 
most marked discordance between the variations of 
tlieir temperature and the state of their functions. 
One may remain unchanged, while the other may 
be raised to the highest degree of energy; and 



: 



ON.TflE CALORIC CURRENTS. 181 

while still considering caloric as the principal ex- 
citant of the organs, it must be acknowledged that 
the elevation of the temperature frequently pro- 
duces a weakening of the functions, and even death, 
whilst a suitable application of cold excites and re- 
establishes the vital phenomena. 

Even in medical practice, and by our therapeuti- 
cal ^g^nts, we see with sui^prise the action by which 
;we cool the vital organs produces the opposite eflfects 
of i^edation or of stimulation; we may, it is true, 
explain this, by supposing that the organs react 
after the influence of cold, which is always at first 
sedative. But do we not find in this explanation 
traces of the vague hypothesis which unfortunately 
marks most of the physiological questions which as 
yet have not been sufficiently elucidated by the 
other sciences? 

If it is true that the particular state, which is 
caljled .temperature, has so little connexion with 
yit^,]. pheiiomena, it becomes important to remark, 
that this state ought not to be considered but as a 
functional, residt, which depends on the accidental 
proportipB which may be established in each living 
individual between the loss and the acquisition of 
caloric of which he is susceptible, whilst the simul- 
taneous existence of these acquisitions and losses 



/ 



182 



tSEltVATIOXS OF TKOF. PELLETAN 



iiecessarily procliice through the orgaDs caloric cur- 
reuts more or less rajnd; whunce it may be cou- 
cluducl that the passage ul' caloric tlirough the 
organs i:^ here a primitive pheaomeoa, and the 
temperature a secondary result. 

It might he already concluded, from these isolate 
arguments, that it is important to study the calorii^ 
currents which are produced in the organs of living 
beings, and that the consideration of this should 
cntei' into all pliysiological and medical reasonings; 
but my object in this memoir is tu develop this proT 
position, in proving, successively — 1, that a give] 
body may be the seat of cuj'rents of heat, more ( 
less rapid, independently of the temperature 
whiuli it is placed ; 2, that our organs are peculiarl]j 
sensible to the passage of caloiic through their 1jssu< 

3, that all organized beings ai'c in the conditiOj 
necessary to become the sent of caloric current* 

4, the vital phenomena and the energy of orgai 
action appear to be in proportion to the rapidity ^ 
the caloric currents, rather than in proportion i 
the temperature ; 5, that the adoption of thei 
principles may serve to explain, in a satisfactory 
manner, a gi"eat Dumber of the phenomena of vital 
heat, which, without them, could not be cx[ijaiued, 
and fvtiuld be considered as auonittlies. 



OJf TH£ CJULORIO CUBBMX9. 183 



f • . 



SECT. I A GIVEN BODY MAY BE THE SEAT OF CUR- 
RENTS OF HEAT, MORE OR LESS RAPID, INDE- 
PENDENTLY OP THE TEMPERATURE IN WHICH IT 
IS PLACED. 

In fact, if we suppose a bar of iron, heated at 
one extremity, and cooled at the other, a thermo- 
meter placed in the centre will remain at a certain 
degree,! which will depend on the difference be- 
tween the temperatures of the two extremities, and 
of the conducting property of the body ; but one 
may conceive, for a fixed temperature in the middle 
of the bar of iron, there will be an infinite number 
of different cases, provided that the cooUng pro- 
duced at the extremity of the bar be always in a 
given proportion with the elevation of the tempera- 
ture at the other extremity ; one may also under- 
stand that the current may become more rapid, and 
the mean temperature lowered, if the cooling is in- 
creased, and that, on the ccmtrary, the current may 
become slower, and the mean temperature rise, if 
the cooling becomes less intense; from whence it 
restilts, that the i^apidity of the caloric currents in 
the bar of iron is in no way indicated by the tem- 
perature of its central part, is not in proportion to 



1S4 



OBSEEVATIO-VS OB PilOF. PBLLETAN 



I 



its tempei-aturo in thia part, and tveninfly befoiin 
ill contratlictiou. 

It is true tliat physicians Inive not as. jot i 
quii'ctl Yrhat cbiinge the existence of a ciu'reut < 
ciiioric, more or less rapid, may produce in uuQUq 
ganizcd matter ; nevertheless, one ujay alrea^ 
remark: — 1. That a galvanic current is produc* 
iu many cases where the conducting body is ' 
seat of caloric currents. 2. That several metal 
hodieSj and some fusible substances, as phosphorus, 
become possessed of peculiar properties when they 
are cooled with rapidity. 3. In fine, that a number 
of orgauized bodies cxi)ericncc, during the increased 
movement of their liquid pai'ts, many important 
changes, according as this movement is increased 
or dimiaished iu rapidity. 

The observations which have been made may be 
compared with what has been seen to take place ia 
the study of electric phenomena. The electric 
phenomena with tensiou was soou understood, and 
that what is called teniperatiu-e meant nothing 
more than the actual quantity of caloric in a body ; 
the properties ivhich pieces of metallic wire coutriwt 
when electric currents wei-e made to pass through 
them, was a later discovery; it is probable that 
valuable discoveries may be made by studyiug the 



/ aHv.1IH£ CALORKJ dfllRENTSi' 185 

properties of bodies which are actually the seat of 
caloric currents, more or less considei'able. How- 
ever ^his' may be, the existence of thefee currents 
are ittdlibitable, and the time will not be thrown 
away in 'Studying, on the same system, the pheno- 
mena of vital heat. 



• ■ ; ) "I 



I 



sect. ii. — our organs are particularly se1ssibj.e 
to the passage of caloric through their 
tissues! 

I I ' - ' ' ' 

It' may be added, this passage is the only admis- 
sible cause of the sensations of heat or cold which 
oui* brgsiiis afford: in fact, the impression produced, 
in the' hand by a liquid in which it may be plunged, 
is no way in proportion to the existing temperature 
of "the liquid ; it depends solely on the difference 
which' exists between this temperature and that of 
the hand on which the experiment is made. The 
satiiiB liquid at the same temperature appears at 
one tiitit warm, at another cold, according as the 
hand is warm or cold, so that the sensation of 
warmth is produced on the skin by a caloric current 
whidi enters, and the sensation of cold by the same 
current being in contrary direction : and, moreover^ 
when the liquid is of the same temperature with the 



186 OBSERVATIONS OF THOF. PELLETAN 

external sitii'oce of the skia, uo sensation eithey< 
heat or cold will be I'elt. 

lit reusoning on phenomena which are not acc«s- 
silJe to our senses — from comparison with ethers 
which are of more easy investigation — we may 
elude that tlie internal organs, which do not u: 
ordinary circumstances transmit sensations, 
powerfully acted upon hy the passage of <nd> 
aci'oss their tissues. 



theis 

^ 

Joric 



SECT. in. — ALL ORGANIZED BEINGS ARE IN TUE NE- 
CESSARY CONDITION TO BE CONTINDALLY TUE 
8EAT OF CALORIC CURRENTS. 

This proposition requires for its elucidation, that 
we explain first what are the necessary conditioHfl 
for the existence of a current of heat tlirough a salv 
stance. It is clear that it may he reduced to three: 
1. A souree of caloric ; 2. A means of throwing off 
caloric; 3. A means of conduction, or a eondiictilBg 
property in the substance in question. ' ' ■ 

As regai-ds the source of caloric we may observe, 
that it may be of two distinct kinds ; that there 
may be a local production of caloric as the i-csult of 
s]iecial phenomenii, as in animals that breathe ; or 
that the object may be in constant communication 



ON TAB CALORIC CL'BKENTS. 



187 



with a common source, which affords it a continued 
supply of caloric, as takes place in the vegetable 
creation on the surface of the globe. 

Ag to the means of communication, they may he 
of two kinds ; by contact ivith cold objects, or by 
the change which takes place in liquids during 
their tnmsformation into vapour. 

As far as regards the conducting property, it is 
rare and imperfect in solid bodies, being confined to 
metals, which possess it to a certain degree, and 
being nearly wanting in liquids and gas; but calo- 
ric may be transported with great rapidity from one 
place to another, by the mobility and the displace- 
I ment of the liquid molecules, in consequence of which 
Ithis means of communication is much more ^wwer- 
f ful and rapid than the conducting property of solid 
f 1}odies, After having laid down these principles, 
I we will examine, in succession, the great divisions 
I of organized beings, to ascertain if, in fact, all pre- 
I sent, without exception, the conditions necessaiy 
\ fcr the existence of currents of caloric. 

Vegetables exist with then" roots implanted deep 
[ in the eaith, or in a liquid, both of which can fur- 
f aish them with an unlimited quantity of caloric ; an 
I iinintorrupted circulation, more or less active, snp- 
|! plies theui coutiuuatly with fluids at the temperature 



Of nioF. rtn.EiA>- 



I 



«f tfe oHtfc ■ wiaefc Arr an placed ; tlie contaet 
d the air. coU moia oertniB citeatiutauceii, besides 
tkc ,9UNr c«s}««aUaa wlikh takes jdacc a1>ove, are 
CHmofthc ftvimtAm «fcoM, which determines 
Aft iLiJiLiji. «f cvnsls in thdr interior jmrts ; 
Vit- if I'TfuimlwijfcH' -irri'T nt a higher tcui- 
pentHc thui m the iaterxir of the plaot, tLc de- 
& have haoottM eooled, »> thnt thei^ is 
t lajcr in IIk vkolo tissue of a similar 
I mhack U &ut Ibimd sitmUol 
' «f 4iflcn»t temperiilurcs, aikd^i* 
ooM^acDoe beooiiay the aeat of caloric otuTenEt&> 

Tlie ""— *■ «Ucfa exist is water maj be divuM 
iato fefc, aad thosi irhidi are called cetaceoiK. 
TIk SonatT kave ajipeanal to most obg«rveis to 
^tam» the a«e l i pwt ure as ibe w;it«r iti which 
Atef wati, wkkh smmc m exclude the idea that 
caloric c MTTitts toBTtrsed their oralis. 

KemtlKkss, it niaj be remarked that it is ex- 
Wemeiy diActdt lu df tcrmine exactir thu iact ttf a 
sli^t diS^jsvoGc of tenapcrjUure betwevn thnt of a 
feh and the ehuoeiit which it itdiabits. Davy luuiul 
the tciui<craturv of soote fish tome ivgna, higher 
than that of the sea ; and fish luive the I'ucul^ of 
reti&ting the OA'ling v( the li<|uid in which they are 
piaocd to a certaio iMMnt, and beiuji eudowod with 



ON THE OALOniC CHIKENTS. 



18!) 



rospiratory orgfim tbey iijiist possese an active fimc- 
tion for tlin development of cftloric. 

These considerations authorize iis in ntlmittiog 
that fish produce a certain quantity of caJorin, whicli 
is regularly abstracted by the medium in which 
they live ; which is sufficient to establiah the exist- 
ence of currents without permitting a very evident 
elevation of temperature : and ive are more paiticu- 
krly inclined to ailopt this opinion, bec^iiise when 
they arc taken and suddenly placed in a situation of 
higher temperature they perish, which takes place 
I by the enrrents of caloric from the inteiior to the 
I fexterior being arrested, whilst they can bear a very 
[ much higher t«mperafure, provided that it is ap'- 
I ^lied very gradually, which is explaine<l by the I'aflt 
I that as their bodies are gradually heated above tlic 
fitilToumling temperatui-e, tliey still experience cur- 
I rents of caloric by keeping up the contrasts. 

The whale tribe, having respiratory organs of a 
I higher order, possess a greater degri'e of tempera- 
I -tiire; but their bodies being enveloped with thick 
I passes of fat, prevent the i-apid loss of caloi-ic by 
[the surrounding medium. 

Animals which live in the air, having vesioidar 
['Inugs, are always of a temperature somewhat higher 
I ihan that by which tii«y are surrounded ;■ theyiavp 



190 OBSERVATIONS OF PROF. FELIETAN 

tlierefore, iu themselves a means of producing h^ 
abstraction of this is continually experieoceil, eltl 
by transpiration, or by contact with c«kler matt 
and their active circulation cacries ivith rapidi 
the caloric produced by their internal organs tod 
parts of the economy, more particularly t-o the p 
wiiere the loss is greatest. 

It i» essential to remark that these animals irhlch 
have the power of throwing o£F caloric otherwisi? 
than by simple contact, that is to say, by the eva- 
poration of liquids whilst in the elastic medium 
which surrounds them, are already capable of sup- 
porting, without perisliing, sudden elevations of 
external temperature, which would at onco kill '4 
fish. It is easily understomi, in fact, that in a 
liquid medium there is but one way for calorie 
being carried off — namely, thp contact of the liquid'; 
while, on the other hand, by living in the ah-, thie 
cause of loss of caloric is powerfully replaced hy 
evaporation. ■ ■ ■ ■ 

Warm blooded animals possess in the highest 
degree the conditions necessary to the existence ol' 
caloric currents through their organs, their com- 
plete and extensive respiratory apparatus acts on 
the ivhole of the circulating mass of blood ; their 
circulation is performed with energy and rtipidhyj 



ox THE CALORIC CURRENTS. 



191 



I ;bot1) functions may be increased or diminished in a 
I may to augment or decrease tiie necessity for tbe 
I production of caloric. 

They are placed in a position to experience the 
Ifeonstant loss of caloric by contact or evaporation, 
I as their natural temperatiire is above that of the 
I elastic fluid which surrounds them ; tluis a transpi- 
I iation always oonsidernble, and which may be aug- 
mented by external influences, enables them to 
support, without perishing, external heat of very 
high degree. The perfection of the means ueci^ssary 
fur producing cm-rents of heat which is met with in 
warm-blooded animals, enables us to exemplify all our 
f ideas on tlie existence and effects of these currents. 
It is necessary to consider, in the first place, that 
[ in general, the corporeal mass of such an animal 
I receives its heat from the interior, and is cooled 
I from the exterior ; and besides, the internal surface 
[ ©f the lungs is also the seat of the loss of caloric ; so 
I that we must necessarily admit that the mass of the 
i organs are incessantly travei'sed by quantities of 
caloric, which depends simultaneously on the ra- 
pidity of its production, the activity of its trans- 
mission, and the relative quantity of waste in a 
I given time; so that, for example, the rapidity of 
I the current will become diminished — 



192 



OBSKETATIONS OF PROF. PELLETAS 



1. If tliG production Ucconies more slow, from i 
respimtory fimctioii being less energetic; 

2. If the transmission is less rapid, which ' 
(lepentl on the actuul state of the circulation; 

3. Finally, if the externnl waste is intcrrnpW 
or diininislied by the elevated teinperatnre of the 
surrounding medium, by the presence of a great 
qusintity of existing vapour, or by the immersion of 
the body in a iiqnid equally hot with itself. 

Independently of these general effects, we should 
remark that the important vital phenomena take 
place in the tissues of wJiicli the organs are com- 
posed, and transmit an active st^te to all the solid 
matter which forms the vessels, or the cells which 
contain liquid; it is necessary, then, to give im- 
portance to this idea of caloric currents, to examine 
if they can, and ought in fact, to exist in the inte- 
rior of the organic tissues. Now, it is demon- 
strated, that the arterial blood, in its exit from the 
lungs, possesses a temperature superior to the rest 
of the body ; and it is probable that when it changes 
its state in the capillary system, it has the CBpa* 
bility of disengaging a fresh quantity of caloric. 

The arterial blood is rapidly transmitted to all 
parts of the body, at first by very large vessels deeply 
situated, so as to avoid any prematnre loss of heat. 



ON THE CALORIC CURBENT8. 



1&3 



On the other Land, the venous blood, returning 
['from all parts of the body to the heart, cannot, and 
tdoes not possess other than the temperature of these 
■ parts, which is mucli lower than the arterial blood. 
LThe veinous blood returning slowly, and passing 
I through dilatable vessels, of which a great number 
Lsre situated externally, becomes lower in terapera- 
Lture by the direct application of cold. 

From these explanations we must conclude that 
Ithe whole organization is continually traversed by 
[ fluids, of different temperatures, so that every part 
[ of the body taken separately, can and must be the 
I seat of caloric currents, passing from the arterial to 
[the venous blood. It is also evident, that the 
r^eart and the lungs are the organs in which these 
I currents are the most considerable, because they are 
I incessantly penetrated by a mass of these two fluids 
r at unequal temperatures. 

May we not find in such considerations an expla- 
nation of the idea of Bichat, who saw that the organs 
I perished when they were filled with black blood? — 
|:and do we not find the explanation of the pheno- 
Ijnena of asphyxia, in admitting that the organs die 
l-when they are filled with fluids of the same tempe- 
Imture, which, consequently, can no longer produce 
•cnrrents of heat? 




OBSEKVATIONS OF PBOF. PEI.LETAN 



SECT. IV. — THE niAL PHENOMENA AND THE ENERGY OF 
ORGAMIC ACTION APPEAR TO BE IN PROPORTIOS | 
TO THE RAPIDITY OF THE CALORIC CUBREN^^'j 
RATHER THAN IN PEOPOBTION TO THE TEMPS 
RATURE. 



S,b 



A great number of facts and remarkable circum- 
stancea which are constantly met with in liYing 
beings, present themselves at once to the mind of 
every observer who supposes the existence of caloric 
currents, and add to the confirmation of the propo- 
sition ; but it will be useful to mention a few of the 
principal. 

The vegetable world is in a state which has I 
compared to sleep, and in which life appears sus- 
pended as long as they are deprived of their great 
means of evaporation, which depends on the heat of 
the air, and the presence of the leaves; but as bo(bi| 
as they are furnished with transpiratory orgaffl,'' 
their vitality becomes remarkably active ; they not 
only grow, but they reproduce new organs, and 
quickly replace those which have been cut off; oiiej 
cannot attribute this increased action to the elevftvj 
tion of temperature alone ; for the extremity of a 
vine branch produces fruit and flowers when inti 



ON THE CAXOEIC CUBRENTS. 



duced into a hot-house, although all the rest of the 
plant remains exposed to the cold of winter ; and 
it is known, besides, that the interior of a plant is 
often much colder than the atmosphere, and that 
the folded leaves may contain icicles during the 
hottest season of the year ; in general, the activity 
of vegetation may be considered in proportion to 
the evaporation of which the vegetable is the seat, 
and consequently to the caloric current by which it 
is traversed. 

In cold-blooded animals, in general, the evident 
energy of their vital actions cannot be attributed 
to the temperature, because this admits of great 
range of latitude, without changing the vital energy, 
whereas all the causes which produce a cessation of 
the cun-ents bring with them dissolution, more or 
leas prompt. 

As regards warm-blooded animEds, and man in 
particular, whose physiology interests us more par- 
ticularly, it is evident that the vital energy is never 
in proportion to the temperature, whilst all the 
causes which produce a rapid passage of caloric 
through the organs, increases simultaneously the 
intensity of their action. 

No warm-blooded animal can bear for a long 
time immersion in a liquid at the temperature of 



196 



OBSERVATIONS OF J-ROF. PELMTAN 



its owu body, although it still possesses the pu 
ti'tiiisitiratjou as a means of throwing o£[ heat. 

A warm and humid atmosphere produces in all 
ouimals a feeling of general debility, and these two 
etates of heat aud moisture have the effect of raisii^ 
tlic temperature of the animal, but diminishing the 
two means of disengaging heat, and, consequently, 
the rapidity of the caloric currents. On the other 
hand, the influence of a diy atmosphere produces 
a feeling of activity, and general excitation, as long 
as the internal means of producing heat supply tlie 
expenditure, and keep up the currents. 

An individual in the highest state of fever, pre- 
sents a state of temperature whicli differs very little 
from that of a healthy man ; nevertheless, all his 
organs, without exception, are in a high state of 
excitation; but it is easy to ascertain that the raeanG 
of producing heat are increased, that the transmis- 
sion has become more rapid, and that the waste is 
proportiouably augmented, so that, although at nearly 
the same temperature, the organs are, in fact, the 
sent of cui'rents of caloric much more rapid tltta 
natural. 

The same may be said of an organ in a state of 
iutianmiatlon, in which all the vital plicuunieua are 
found cmisideriibly increased, although its tempo- 



ON THE CALOKIC CITHEENTS. 197 

Katiture is not sensibly elevated : the arrival of a 

■ greater quantity of arterial blood in tbe inflamed 
organ increases the source of heat; an abundant 
perspiration carries it off with great celerity ; but the 
organ is not the less traversed by too rapid currents, 
which explains the excitation and the sensation of 
heat which are transmitted to the brain, at the 

1 Bauic time that the observation of the temperature 

f throws no light on these phenomena. 



EOT. V. — THE ADOPTION OF THE PRECEDING PEINCIPLES 
SERVES TO EXPLAIN IN X BATISFACTOEY lUNNER 
A GREAT NUMBER OF VITAL PHENOMENA WHICH 
WITHOUT THEM COULD NOT BE UNDERSTOOD, 
AND WOULD THEREFORE PASS FOR ANOMALIES. 

It will be sufficient by citing a certain number of 
I remarkable circumstances, which hitherto could not 
be explained, to give an idea of the importance of 
understanding the influence of the currents. 

The immersion for a short time in a cold bath, 
and other applications of cold water, may be consi- 
dered as the most energetic stimulants of our func- 
itions; but they are not applicable to individuals 
^.already too weak to offer a chauce of producing 
I what is called reaction. 




19S 



OBaKRTAnOHS OP PHOF. MXLBTAN 



Without denying the influence which vivid s^ 
tions, produced on the skin, exert on the general 
execution of the Junctions, it appears evident that 
a alight and not long-continued cooling of the skin 
is particularly adapted to render the currents of 
caloric more rapid from the interior to the exterior, 
provided always that the internal prodnction be 
sufficient to meet the demand ; which, according to 
this theory, accounts satisfactorily for this pheno- 
menon, and in general for the tonic action of cold 
haths. • 

The continued application, however, of ice, or a 
cold liquid, on a part of the body corresponding with 
an iuilamed organ not very deeply seated, is one of 
the most powerful sedatives that can be used in the 
practice of medicine, and this seeming contradiction 
can be easily explained, when it is considered that 
cold applied superfici ally is also a means of pro- 
ducing currents, and that a cooling that penetrates 
deeply arrests and diminishes them, because in ge- 
neral the quantity of caloric transmitted by a body 
is in proportion to its temperature ; for instance, a 
slight and superficial cooling on the surface of the 
head will cause the internal parts to be traversed by 
a greater quantity of hot currents, whilst, when the 
fc^woling is continued and enters deeply, affecting the 



ON THE CALORIC CCRRENT3. 



i9y 



_-80 t 

1^; 



■tespi 
■Ld 



I 



whole of the internal substance, the brain and its 
coverings will in this state be only traversed by very 
small quantities of caloric. Besides, by this lower- 
ing of the temperature the circulation is diminished, 
80 that the means of a new supply of caloric ia in a 

lat measure cut off. 

It is a general observation, that inflammation of 
the internal surface of the lungs is more frequent 
than any other, and that it is produced now by the 
liration of cold air, at another time by a hot 
id dry air; as regards their frequent occurrence, 
it is evident that the mucous membrane of the lungs, 
being the exclusive seat where ca,loric is thrown off, 
are frequently affected by very rapid currents, and 
that these effects should be much more marked in 
the pulmonary raucous membrane, in consequence 
of the great quantity of arterial blood adjacent. 

The application of a cataplasm or fomentation on 
an inflamed part is very useful in preserving and 
even increasing the local temperature ; nevertheless 
it evidently diminishes the feeling of heat and pain 
in the suffering part : the exposure to cold air, on 
■the contrary, increases the pain. How can these 
phenomena be understood, if we do not admit that 
the cataplasm, forming a kind of local bath, sup- 
presses the transpiration, and the losses of caloric by 




200 



OBSERVATIONS 0? PEOF. PELLMAN 



transmission, and conseqnentij the two causes whidi 
render the currents of caloric more rapid in the in- 
flAiaed part are diminished? 

It is now the time to remark, that a great munber 
of affections wlijch are commonly attributed to snp- 
pressed perspiration depend, on the contrary, on 
causes which rendered it more active for a time — 
for instance, the expoaure to a current of air. The 
inOammations which follow as a consequence of 
this, are they not satisfactorily explained by the pre- 
ceding arguments? 

When an individoal rabs the hands for a certain 
time with snow, and while the snow ia still in con- 
tact with the skin, there is a feeling of great heat 
experienced, and the skin becomes perfectly red : 
during this time the thermometer shews that the 
temperature is very low; the passage of caloric, 
which arriving rapidly from the central organs to 
the cool part, is the only means of explaining a 
similar effect. 

When a part of the body has been nearly com- 
pletely deprived of circulation by a long-continued 
application of cold, the application of heat is a sure 
way to cause its complete destruction ; to render the 
general circulation as active as possible, and to rub 
the frozen parts with snow, are the means whioll" 



ON THE CALORIC CURRENTS^ 201 

experience has taught the inhabitants of the North 
as the only safe and effectual way of restoring the 
part ; and the salutary result can only be explained, 
by admitting that vitality is restored to the organ 
when currents of caloric are produced^ and not 
by the application of heat. 

Finally, the number of supposed aberrations of 
the animal heat, the sensations of cold and heat 
which the thermometer does not detect, and which 
to the present time have been considered as vital 
phenomena, independent of the ordinary laws of 
physics, appear to us to be explicable by the com- 
mon laws, if it be admitted that our organs are 
sensible to the passage of caloric, independently of 
their actual temperature, and that the rapidity of 
the currents obeys the three influences already men- 
tioned. 

But we cannot hide from ourselves, that however 
great the number and exactness of the facts on 
which is founded the theoretical idea which forms 
the subject of this memoir may be, it still rests in 
the class of hypotheses which do not admit of direct 
demonstration; but we believe, nevertheless, that 
these kind of discussions are not without their 
utility in the sciences, when the object is to bring 
together a number of phenomena, to be ranged 

p 



202 OBSERVATIONS OF PROF. PELLETAN, ETC. 

under ft principle, taid thus to diminish a number 
of suppositions we ore obliged to make to under- 
stand and assimilate the natural phenomena. I 
have been persuaded to publish these ideas, by 
many of the most eminent of my brethren, and it 
may be hoped, by submitting them to the examina- 
tion of a great number of enlightened medical men, 
they may become the means of producing some 
valuable applications to the practice of medicine. 
I have already attempted this : the results I shall 
give in another memoir. 



As a certain gentleman would have been a great 
mechanist, only that he never would make aUoic- 
ance for friction, so would the cultivators of animal 
chemistry and physics explain a great deal more, 
but that they seldom will make nllowaiux for a 
nervous system. The present remark does not so 
much apply to the learned author of the memoir I 
have appended. 



KND OF PART I. 



