larCilLclL^'iTllll 



EXTREME CARE 

This volume is damaged or brittle 
and CANNOThe repairedl 



photocopy only if necessary 

return to staff 

do nof put in bookdrop 



Gersteirr Science Infarmalion Centre 



GERSTEIN 



^/>^-t,--«-^«^ • t^^-T-r-*^ ^^^' 



JL^__^ ^^A--^- 



y-- 



^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/economyofhealthoOOjohnuoft 



^t'- 



THE 

ECONOMY OF HEALTH 



/ 

V 



OR 



THE STREAM OF HUMAN LIFE 

FROM THE CRADLE TO THE GRAVE 
, »riTH 

REFLECTIONS 

MORAL PHYSICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL 

, ON THE 

SUCCESSIVE PHASES OF HUMAN EXISTENCE 

THE MALADIES TO WHICH THEY ARE SUBJECT, AND THE DANGERS 
} THAT MAY BE AVERTED. 

By JAMES JOHNSON, M.D, 

PHYSICIAN EXTRAORDINARY TO THE LATE KING, 





' THK PROPER STUDY OF MANKIND IS MAN 



LONDON: 

S. HIGHLEY, 32, FLEET STREET. 

1843. 



r- 



PRINTED BY F. HAYDEN, 
Little College Street, Westminster. 



PREFACE 

(to the first edition.) 

The following Essay, though small in size, is the result of long 
experience and observation. It consists of the deductions which 
have been drawn from facts and reflections, rather than the pro- 
cesses through which these deductions had been arrived at. After 
all, it is but an outline of the subject, the details of which would 
Jill many volumes. 

The Author will not be accused of having followed, or borrowed 
much from his predecessors in this walk. The various •' arts of 
prolonging life," and the ponderous " codes of health and longevity," 
though read by many, have been remembered by few — and practised 
by still fewer. Even where the precepts have been put in execu- 
tion, they have often done more harm than good. The reason is not 
difficult to divine. From the cradle to the grave, man is perpetu- 
ally changing, both in mind and body. He is not, to-day, what he 
was yesterday, and will be to-morrow. Though these changes are 
not perceptible to the eye, at very short intervals, yet, if an indi- 
vidual is only seen every four or five years, the alterations will 
appear very remarkable. In tracing the successive phases of human 
existence, it was necessary to adopt some arbitrary division of time 



IV PREFACE. 

— and, after long observation and reflection, the Septennial periods 
appeared to the Author the most natural epochs into which the 
journey of life could be divided. 

In respect to the execution of the work, whether good or bad, the 
Author can safely aver that the great object aimed at, was utility. 
Pecuniary emolument was out of the question — the race of compe- 
tition is abandoned — and the goal of ambition has dropped the mask, 
and assumed its real character — the scoffing terminus of man's 
vain hopes — the withering finger-post pointing to the tomb ! 

In a survey of human life, there was much temptation to moral 
reflection, and even some excuse for metaphysical speculation. Into 
the latter the Author has seldom ventured, and then with great 
brevity. In firie, he has endeavoured to simplify the leading prin- 
ciples of preserving health and attaining happiness, rather than to 
multiply details and amplify precepts that can only be applied by 
each individual to himself. 

Suffolk Place, November, 1836. 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



The favorable reception of the First Edition, published three months 
ago, has induced the Author to revise the work very carefully, and 
introduce a great deal of new matter. Four entire Sections have 



PREFACE. V 

been added — one on Pulmonary Consumption, especially as re- 
gards prevention and climatorial treatment — another on Gout — a 
third on Mkmory — and a fourth on the " Consolations of Old Age." 
The Author is not without hopes that the Essay, as it now stands, 
will contribute something to the health and happiness of society. 
He has gratefully to acknowledge the indulgence of the Public and 
the liberality of the Press, on this as well as upon many other 
occasions. 

Suffolk Place, February 1837. 

PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. 



In this Edition considerable additions and improvements have 
been made, while some retrenchments rendered it unnecessary to in- 
crease the size of the Work. 

Suffolk Place, 1st August, 1838. 

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. 



Some alterations and improvements have been made in this 
Edition. 

August, 1843. a 2 



CONTENTS. 



In dvo. price 5s. M. hoards. 

PRACTICAL RESEARCHES 

ON THE 

NATURE, CURE, AND PREVENTION 

OF 

GOUT, 

IN ALL ITS OPEN AND CONCEALED FORMS. 
Partly translated and condensed from the French of Guilbcrt and Halle. \VitIi a 
Critical Examination of some celebrated Remedies and Modes of Treatment 
employed in this Disease. 

BY JAMES JOHNSON, M.D., 

PHYSICIAN EXTRAORDINARY TO THE LATE KING. 

S. HIGHLEY, 32, FLEET STREET, LONDON. 



SECOND SEPTENNIAD. 

[7 to 14 Years.] 

The Schoolmaster— unhappy Wight, 21.. Precocious Culture of the Intellect, 
21. . Swords turned into Pens, 22. . Modes of Elementary Instruction, 23 . . 
Private Tuition — Public Schools, 23 . , Disproportion between Mental and 
Corporeal Exercise, 24.. Grand Principle of Education, 24.. Proper Pre- 
mium for Mental Attention, 24 .. Systematic Exercise, 25.. Dietetic Regi- 
men during the Scholastic Septenniad, 26.. Modern Errors at the Home 
Table, 26. . Barbarous System of "Fagging" at Schools, 27. . Contagion of 
Vice in Public Seminaries, 27.. Lancastrian System of "Mutual Destruc- 
tion," 27.. Cardinal Objects of Education, 28.. Comparative Advantages 
of Learning hnd Science, 28.. Classics and Mathematics compared, 29.. 
Value of Time in the present State of the World, 29. . Remarks on Origi- 



CONTENTS. 



9ai9»i 



Pbeliminary Observations — Definition of Health, I.. The chief ingredi- 
ent in Happiness, 2. . Power, Riches, Fame, Beauty, &c. without Health, 
3.. Religion, Philosophy, Materialism, 4.. Public Health, or Hygiene, 5.. 
Brahmins, Jews, and Greeks, 6.. Sanitary Code of Lycurgus, 7.. Spartan 
Gymnastics, 8.. Ancient Persian Dietetics, 8.. Pythagorean Precepts, 9.. 
Influence of Animal and Vegetable Food, 9.. Man omnivorous, 9.. Divi- 
sion of Life into Ten Septenniads, 11. 

FIRST SEPTENNIAD. 

[1 to 7 Yeari:\ 

Picture of Earliest Infancy, 12.. State of the Brain and Internal Organs in 
early Infancy, 13, .Intellectual Operations almost null, 13.. Danger of 
early Mental Exertions, 13. . Physical Education of the First Septbn- 
HiAD, 14.. Food, 14..Cloathing, 15.. Calido-frigid Fortifier, ] 6 . . ExercisCt 
17..Sieep, 18.. Moral Education of the First Skptenniad, 19.. 
Habits and Manners to be formed in this Epoch, 19 . . Importance of Order, 
Regularity, Punctuality, 20. 

SECOND SEPTENNIAD. 

[7 to 14 Years^^ 

The Schoolmaster — unhappy Wight, 21.. Precocious Culture of the Intellect, 
21. . Swords turned into Pens, 22. . Modes of Elementary Instruction, 23 . . 
Private Tuition — Public Schools, 23.. Disproportion between Mental and 
Corporeal Exercise, 24.. Grand Principle of Education, 24.. Proper Pre- 
mium for Mental Attention, 24 .. Systematic Exercise, 25.. Dietetic Regi- 
men during the Scholastic Septenniad, 26. . Modern Errors at the Home 
Table, 26. . Barbarous System of "Fagging" at Schools, 27. . Contagion of 
Vice in Public Seminaries, 27.. Lancastrian System of "Mutual Destruc- 
tion," 27.. Cardinal Objects of Education, 28.. Comparative Advantages 
of Learning vc\A Science, 28.. Classics and Mathematics compared, 29.. 
Value of Time in the present State of the World, 29. . Remarks on Origi- 



VUl CONTENTS. 

nals and Translations, 30.. Education of Females, 3 1,. Mania for Music, 
32.. Aristocracy of the "Factory Girls," 33.. Misappropriation of Time, 
33. 

THIRD SEPTENNIAD. 

[14 to 21 Years.] 

Change from the Schoolmaster to the Task-Master — from the Seminary to 
the Counting-house — from the Academy to the College, 35.. Manifold 
Dangers of the Third Septenniad, 35.. Secrets of the Prison-house, 37.. 
Evils of the Arts and Manufactures, 38. . Insalubrious Avocations and Pro- 
fessions, 39.. Wear and Tear of University Wrangling, 40.. High Mental 
Cultivation of Mind injurious to the Body, 4 1 .. Comparative Effects of 
Classics and Mathematics, 41.. Dawn of certain Passions and Propensi- 
ties, 42. . Love the Master-passion in this Septenniad, 43. . Two Cupids — 
one Heaven-born — the other the Offspring of Nox and Erebus, 44. . Picture 
of a Love- sick Maiden, 45.. Marriage Maxims of Modern Life, 45. . Evil 
direction of Female Education, 46. . Morbid Excitability produced by Music, 
46. . Seeds of Female Diseases sown at this Period, 49. . Want of Exercise 
— Exposure to Night-Air, 50. .Deplorable Effects of Tight-lacing, 51.. 
Effects of too-early Matrimony, 53. 

FOURTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[21 to 28 Years.] 

Typical Representation of Time, 55.. Nature ever changing, never changed, 
55.. Time, as estimated by different Individuals, 56.. Unjust Complaints 
against Time, 57 . . Majority attained, and Manhood gained, 58. . False Esti - 
mates of good and bad Fortune, 58.. Remarkable Illustration — "all for 
the best," 58.. Majority of Years not Acme of Powers, 58.. Age of 25, 
the Age of Maturity, 58.. Difference between Males and Females, 59.. 
Fourth Septenniad the most critical for both Sexes, 59. . Structure and 
Functions of the Human Frame indicative of Infinite Wisdom, 60.. Sum- 
total of the Functions constitute Health, 60; . Sources of Pleasure and 
Suffering, 61 . . Man apparently designed for Immortality, 62. . Immortality, 
in this World, would be a dreadful Curse, 62.. Acme of Physical Develop- 
ment at 25, not the Acm^ of Firmness and Strength, 62. . Temperance and 
Exercise consolidate the Constitution, 63.. Youth of Labour and Age of 
Ease, 63. . Exercise almost always in our power, 64. . Fourth Septenniad 
claimed by Hymen, 65.. Question of the proper Time for Marriage, 65.. 
Consequences of Premature Marriage in the Female, 66. . Choice of a Mate 
— Marriage a Lottery, 66 . . Courtship a State of Warfare, 66 . . Best Chance 
of Happiness in Matrimony, 68.. All Contrasts produce Harmony, 69.. 
Wisdom of Providence, 69.. PULMONARY CONSUMPTION, its Causes, 
Prevention, and Treatment, 70-77. 



CONTENTS. IX 

FIFTH AND SIXTH SEFTENNIADS. 

[28 to 42 rears.] 

THE GOLDEN yERA. 

Fifth and Sixth Septenniaos the double Keystone of the Arch of Human 
Life, 78.. Remarks on Dr. S.Johnson's "Decline of Life," 78.. Remarks 
on Dr. S. Smith's "Meridian of Life," 78.. Life nearly stationary from 
28 to 42, 79. . Equilibrium of Waste and Supply, 79. . Arguments against 
Materialism, 80. . Phrenology, 80.. Different Organs and different Func- 
tions in the Brain, 81.. Plurality of Organs in the Brain no Argument in 
favour of Materialism, 82. • Material Organs not the Causes but the Instru- 
ments of the Mental Faculties, 83 . . Drawbacks on Phrenology, 83 . . Auto- 
PHRENOLOGT, or the Study of our own Propensities, the best Study — and 
easiest, 84 . . Difficulty and Danger of studying the Organs of our Neigh- 
bours, 84.. Insanity and Monomania best Illustrations of Phrenology, Sfi 
. . Mind acquires Strength after the Body begins to decline, 86.. Imagina- 
tion strongest in the Golden ^ra, 87.. Shakespeare — Scott — Byron, Sec. 
as examples, 87.. Exceptions to this Rule — Milton, Johnson, &c. 87.. 
Judgment stronger after the Meridian, 86.. Bacon, Newton, Locke, Lin- 
naeus, &c. in illustration, 87.. Novum Organon, at the Age of 59, 87.. 
Newton's Vigour of Mind at 73, 88.. Powers of Mind and Body do not 
appear to rise and fall, pari passu, as the Materialists maintain, 88. .Ex- 
planation of this Difference, 89 .. Practical Application, 89. . Emulation of 
Youth glides into the Ambition of Manhood, 89. . Ambition, its Rewards 
and Punishments, 90 . . Alexander, Hannibal, Caesar, Sidney, Wolsey, Na- 
poleon, 90. . Ambition, the universal Passion in Middle Age, 90. . No Organ 
of Ambition discovered by Phrenologists, 90 . . Succession of the Passions 
and Propensities, 91.. All Brains equally blank at Birth; but all Brains 
not equal on that Account, 92 . . Our Talents are hereditary — our Acquire- 
ments depend on ourselves, 93 . .Examples of Emulation growing into Am- 
bition, 93 .. Napoleon, Peel, Byron, Brougham, &c. 94.. Men are not born 
equal, 94.. At 35 Love and Ambition nearly equipotent, 95.. The Seeds 
of many Diseases called into Activity during the Fifth and Sixth Sep- 
tenniads, 95.. Modem Maladies — Dyspepsy, &c., 96.. March of Intellect 
and its Miseries, 97 . .Torrent of Knowledge not to be stopped, 97. . Health 
deteriorated, though Life be not curtailed, by the March of Improvement, 
S8. . Nervous Complaints, from Mental Exertion, 99. . Action and re-action 
of Mind and Body, 100. .Chief Sources of Modern Disorders in the Mind, 
101.. Illustrations of Mental Depressions predisposing to Bodily Disease, 
1 02 . . Walcheren and Batavia, 104.. Development of a grand Principle in 
Hygiene — Activity of Boot as an Antidote to Depression of Mind, 
104.. Illustrations — Retreat of the Ten Thousand Greeks, under Xeno- 



X CONTENTS. 

phon, 104. .Siege of Mantua, 107.. Shipwreck of Capt. Byron, 107.. Re- 
treat of Sir John Moore, 108. . Narratives of Bligh and Wilson, 109. . Re- 
treat of the French from Moscow, 109.. Application of this Principle of 
Hygiene to Private Life, lICGraeco-Byronian Precept — "Keep the 
Body active, and the Stomach empty, UCMisfortunes of the Female 
Sex, 1 1 1 .. Ingratitude to Mothers, 112.. Maternal Affection, 11 2.. Filial 
Affection, 114.. Punishments in this World, 114.. Suicide, 11 6.. Hope of 
Rewards, 117.. Zenith of the Journey of Life, 11 7.. Retrospection, 118.. 
Tree of Knowledge, 119.. Probable Effects of Knowledge, 120.. On In- 
tellect, 122.. On Learning, 122.. On Wealth, 123.. On Rank, 124.. On 
Happiness, 125,, . On Equalization, 126. 

SEVENTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[42 to 49 years.'] 

Ebb-tide of Life commences at 42, 12 8.. Decadence of the Stream scarcely 
perceptible, 128.. Melancholy Monitors, 128.. The three Master-passions 
Equipoised, 128.. Grand Climacteric of Woman, 129. .Patho-Proteian 
Malady — Origin and Sources of this Multiform Disorder, 129.. Not an 
Entity, but a Modern Constitution or Disposition, 131.. Chief Source in 
the Brain — Chief Action on the Digestive Organs, 131.. Multitudinous 
Causes, 132. . Injuries offered to the Stomach by all Classes, 133. . Nature 
of the Vital Organs, 134.. Stomach Intellectualized, 134.. Morbid Circle 
of Association, 135. .Melancholy Case of Periodical Monomania, ending in 
Suicide, 136. .Fatal Effects of Ambition, 139.. Modern Habits and Pur- 
suits, 142. . Redundant Population — Ardent Competition, 142.. " Feast of 
Reason," 144.. Mental Intemperance, 146.. Morbid Sensibility, 146.. 
Central Seat of the Proteian Fiend, 147. . Imitates various Diseases, 148. . 
Paroxysm of the Patho- Proteus, 149 . . Invasion of the Intellectual Powers, 
151.. Dire Effects of the Patho-Proteus on Temper, 152.. Temper not en- 
tirely under the Control of Reason, 152.. Remarks on Insanity, 153.. 
Hygiene, or Prevention of the Proteian Malady — Temperance and 
Exercise the Grand Preventives and Correctives, 154.. Baleful Effects of 
Sedentary Habits, 15 6.. Inactivity the Parent of Irritability, 157.. Incen- 
tives to Exercise, 158. .Travelling-Exercise in the Open Air, 159. 

EIGHTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[49 to 56 Years.] 

Dr. Jameson on the Septennial Phases, 160.. Comparative Position of the 
Three Master-Passions in this Septenniad, 1 62 . . Pleasures and Miseries of 
Memory, 163 . , Memory, 1 63-7 1 . . Danger of Attempting to Change Habits 
or Avocations in this Septenniad, 1 7 1 .. Unequal Matrimonial Alliances, 



CONTENTS. XI 

171.. Melancholy Mementos in this Septenniad, 172. . Cowper's Life, 173 
..Resources of Art in counteracting Decay of Life, 174.. Tendency to 
Obesity in the Eighth Septenniad, 176.. Cautions necessary at this Period, 
177.. Gout, its Causes, Nature, and Treatment, 178-83. 

NINTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[56 to 63 Years.] 

[Grand Climacteric] 

Reflections on the Lapse of Time in Youth and in Age, 184. .Love of Money 
becomes the predominant Passion, 185.. Grand Climacteric — "Fifth 
Age" of Shakespeare — Rationale of the Grand Climacteric, 185.. Descrip- 
tion of the Climacteric Decline, 186. . Imitation of the Climacteric Decline 
in Young Females, 189.. Means of checking the Climacteric Decline, 190 
..Various Terminations of the Climacteric Disease, 192.. Remedies or 
Palliatives, 192.. Other Diseases of the Ninth Septenniad, 193.. Fate of 
Scott and Byron, 1 94 . . Desire for Retirement at this Period of Life, 195.. 
Fatal Effects of too-early Retirement from Business, 195.. Remarkable 
Example, 195. . Retrospective and Prospective Views at 63, 199. . Religion, 
199. 

TENTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[63 to 70.] 

Sixth Age of Shakespeare, Remarks on, 201 . . Portrait of Old Age — Marlbro' 
and Swift, 202. .Modern Failure of the Teeth, 203. . General Dilapidation 
of the whole Frame, 204 . . Comparative Range of Sleep, 204. . Departure 
of some Ruling Passions, 205.. Avarice remains. Remarkable Examples, 
206.. Balance of Happiness and Misery, 207.. Consolations of Old Age, 
208.. Reveries of Senectitude, 209.. Pleasures of Complaining, 209.. Re- 
markable Portrait of a Laudator Temporis Acti, 209. . Reverence of Old 
Age in Savage Nations and Civilized, compared, 2 13.. Flattering Picture 
of Old Age, by Dr. Jameson, 213. 

ULTRA-LIMITES. 

[70 to 0.] 

Shakespeare's "Last Scene of All," 215.. Man still hopes for a little Pro- 
traction of Existence, 215.. Imaginary Corruscations of Intellect at the 
Close of Life, 215. .The Sceptic's Horror of Death, 2 16.. Christian's Con- 
solation in the Last Hour — Hope Gilds the Final Scene, 217. 

Criticisms on the Author's Works 218 



THE 



ECONOMY OF HEALTH, 

OB THB 

STREAM OF HUMAN LIFE, 

&c. &c. &c. 

rouiiTH editxomt! 



IlEALTH has been defined the natural and easy exercise of 
all the functions — constituting a state of actual pleasure. " The 
usual, the permanent, the natural condition of each organ, and 
of the entire system, is pleasiu^ble." This might be true, if 
we were in a state of nature; but, in our present condition, 
there is scarcely such a thing as perfect health. It is, unfor- 
tunately, often a negative, rather than a positive quality — an 
immunity from suffering, rather than the pleasurable condition, 
as described above by Dr. Smith. All must acknowledge that 
there is no such thing as moral perfection in this world; — 
neither is there physical perfection. Man brings with him the 
seeds of sickness as well as of death; and, although, in their 
early growth,, these seeds may be imperceptible, yet so many 
noxious agents surround us, that we rarely arrive at maturity 
before the foul weeds become cognizable, and disorder encroaches 
on HEALTH ! I am ready to grant, with the same author, that — 
" abstracting from the aggregate amoxmt of pleasure (health) 
the aggregate amount of pain, the balance in favor of pleasure 
is immense." But it is to be remembered that our pleasurable 
or healthy moments pass with such rapid wing, that we are 
scarcely conscious of their existence. Not so while under pain 

B 



2 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

or sickness. Then the hours drag heavily along, and the percep- 
tion of TIME is little else than the experience of suffering ! 

But whether a positive or a negative quality — whether a com- 
plete, or merely a comparative freedom from disease, is health 
estimated as the greatest blessing ? is it appreciated at its real 
value ? It would appear not to be so by the following declara- 
tion of the Poet — 

Oh ! Happiness — our being's end and aim. 
Good, Pleasure, Ease, Content, whate'er thy name ! 

No one knew better than Pope the blessing of health — or rather 
the miseries of sickness ; and therefore the Bard ought to have 
placed Health at the head of the short category in the second 
line. Let that catalogue be extended to the utmost limit of the 
poet's imaginings — let all its items, if possible, be brought 
within the grasp of some fortunate individual — yet omit health, 
and all the other objects of men's hopes and wishes would prove 
stale, flat, and unprofitable. Strike out health from the list 
of regal prerogatives, and the imperial diadem proves a crown 
of thorns. Without health,^ the armorial bearings and all 
those glittering symbols of ancestral pride and noble birth grow 
insipid — nay, hateful to the eye of the possessor, as laughing 
in mockery at human suffering, and pointing to the grave, as 
the only certain refuge from human woes — the only asylum 
which opens its gates indiscriminately to the relief of the high 
and the low ! 

Prestat argento, superatque fulvum 
Sanitas aurum — superatque censum 
Quamvis ingentem, validseque vires 
Omnia prestant. 

Without health, riches cannot procure ease, much less hap- 
piness. It would have been a cruel dispensation of Providence, 
if gold had been permitted to purchase that which is the poor 
man's chief wealth— and the want of which, reduces the affluent 
to worse than indigence! The bed of sickness is the greatest 
of all levellers on this side of the grave. Can the embroidered 
pillow or the purple canopy etill the fierce throbbings of the 



XO HAPPINESS WITHOUT HEALTH. 3 

fevered brain — or arrest the dire tortures of lacerating gout? 
No verily ! But it wiU be said that the rich man may console 
himself with the reflection that he can s\immon to his aid, when 
overtaken with illness, a conclave of grave, learned, and skilful 
physicians. True. The pauper and the peasant confide their 
health to the parish doctor or the village apothecary, whose re- 
medies may be less palatable, but perhaps not less potent, than 
those of their prouder neighbours. At all events, they are not 
cursed with consultations — nor liable to have their maladies mis- 
nomered, if not mismanaged, by conflicting doctrines and fash- 
ionable doctors. The pains of the poor man may be as strong 
as those of the rich ; but his sensibilities are less acute, because 
he is more accustomed to privations and hardships. He has 
little to lose in this world, except a load of misery. To Poverty, 
Death often appears as the welcome termination of a long and 
unsuccessful struggle against wants and woes. From Afflu- 
ence, the grisly king demands an unconditional surrender of all 
the good things transmitted to him by heritage, acquired by in- 
dustry, or accumulated by avarice. 

Can fame defy the stings of sickness ? No. The plaudits of 
the multitude can no more assuage the tortures of pain, than can 
" flattery soothe the dull cold ear of death." The renown of a 
thousand victories could not diifiise an anod5me influence over the 
pillow of Napoleon. The laurels of Marengo could not defend 
him against the depressing influence of St. Helena ! 

Can POWER, the darling object of ambitious minds, neutralize 
the stings of pain, and compensate for loss of health ? No 
indeed ! A motion of that magic wand, the sceptre, can cause 
joy or sorrow, sickness or health, in the subject : but neither the 
diadem nor the purple can lull the aching head, or quiet the pal- 
pitating heart of the prince. 

Is BEAUTY inaccessible to sickness? Of all the gifts which 
Heaven can bestow, the " fortune of a face " is the most doubt- 
ful in value. It is a mark at which every malignant star directs its 
hostile influence — a Ught that leads both its bearer and followers 
more frequently upon rocks and quick- sands, than into the haven 
of repose. Between beauty and disease there is perpetual wax- 



4 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

fare. They cannot co-exist for any length of time— and the latter 
is sure to be the victor in a protracted contest. 

Can LITERATURE or SCIENCE closc the avenues to corporeal 
sufferings, or render the mind superior to the infirmities of the 
body ? Far from it. Intellectual cultivation sows the seeds of 
physical deterioration — and the evils thus inflicted on the flesh, 
fail not to grow up, and ultimately retaliate, with interest, on the 
spirit. 

Is there, then, no condition or state, in this world, exempt 
from disease ? None. Are there no means of restoring lost 
health, or of rendering the loss compatible* with happiness — or 
at least with contentment ? Many diseases may be prevented 
— many are curable — and many may be mitigated ; — but there 
is only one thing, so far as I have observed, that can promise 
patience, resignation, and even cheerfulness under permanent or 
long- continued aflHiction, whether of body or mind — and that is 

RELIGION. 

Philosophy, which is always tinctured with natural religion, 
makes a noble stand, for a time, against physical as well as moral 
ills ; but being based on human doctrines, and supported chiefly 
by human pride, it often fails in protracted struggles, and lies 
prostrate, without resource. Materialism is in a still worse con- 
dition. When all the blandishments of life are gone — when 
health has fled, and pleasure bade its last adieu, the sceptic, or 
rather the materialist, has nothing to hope on this side of the 
grave, and nothing to fear beyond that bourne. He is furnished 
with no arguments against self-destruction except a contempla- 
tion of the pain attending the act — the stain that may attach to 
reputation or survivors — and that horror of annihilation, corres- 
ponding with the instinctive fear of death, implanted in the breast 
of every living creature. These being overcome, the sceptic de- 
termines to put an end, at one and the same time, to his suff^erings 
and to his existence. The only causes of suicide, in my opinion, 
are, insanity and materialism. No man of sane mind and of firm 
Christian belief, ever yet destroyed himself. A gust of passion 
or a momentary inebriation may occasionally lead to such at- 
tempts ; but they form no exception to the rule ; for such states 



SANITARY LAWS. 5 

are those of temporary madness. It is but right to observe that, 
in ninety-nine out of an hundred instances, the self- destroyer is 
insane at the moment of perpetrating the horrid deed. While a 
ray of hope remains, the materialist clings to life — the idea of 
annihilation having terrors peculiar to itself — and being often more 
repugnant to the human mind than even the fear of a future state 
of punishment. 

In fine, were there no other advantages resulting from early 
cultivation of religious principles, than those which relate ex- 
clusively to our present state of existence — namely, the acqui- 
sition of patience under temporary affliction, and resignation under 
irremediable loss of health, these advantages would be invaluable. 
ITiey would be the best legacy of the parent — the best heritage 
of the child.* 



Health may be considered under two points of view — that 
which relates to the community, and that which respects the 
individual. In modern times, and especially in this country, there 
has been little other attention paid by Government to public 
health, till very lately, than the removal of a few nuisances, and 
the establishment of quarantines against plague, which is not 
Ukely to visit a country where it would be starved to death in a 
month — and against cholera, which, when iaclined to visit a 
place, can leap over a triple cordon of Prussian or Italian bayonets, 
with as much ease as a wolf vaults over the palisades of a sheep- 
fold. It may be both curious and instructive to glance at the 
difference between ancient and modem legislation on the subject 
of public health. There can be little doubt that the minute 
regulations respecting diet, ablution, &c., enforced by the Hindoos, 
the Egyptians, the Hebrews, and the Greeks, were directed to 

• Women, though possessed of more acute sensibilities than men, have 
more patience under sickness, and resignation under misfortune. They 
therefore bear pain with less complaint, and sorrow with more fortitude than 
the stronger sex. Though much of this difference must be owing to physical 
temperament, yet much is also to be placed to the account of religious feel- 
ings, which are far stronger in the female than the male breast. — ith Edit. 

B 2 



6 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

the preservation of health, though under the form of religious 
ceremonies ; the priests, who were then the physicians, wisely 
concluding that injunctions would be better obeyed, when they 
were aifirmed to be mandates from Heaven, than when considered 
as merely of human invention. Thus Brahma enjoined vegetable 
diet, and prohibited animal food, from an opinion that such diet 
was the best calculated for the inhabitants of a burning cHmate. 
Though mistaken in his opinion, as to the salubrity of exclusive 
vegetable food, yet the Hindoo proselyte perseveres in the sup- 
posed divine dogma to the present hour. 

And so with the Jews. It will hardly be contended that the 
prohibition of pork (the most nutritious food of man) was a com- 
mand from the Almighty, for the salvation of a Hebrew's soul. 
But when it is recollected that leprosy was prevalent in Judea, 
and that swine were believed to be very subject to that loathsome 
malady, the prohibition of hogs' flesh may be accounted for. The 
sentence of imcleanliness passed by Moses on so many beasts, 
birds, and fishes, is inexplicable on any other supposition than 
that it was based on some sanitary code of diet. It is possible 
that this restriction and uniformity of diet, so tenaciously msiin- 
tained by the Israelites in all ages and countries, may be one of 
several causes conducing to that similarity of features and con- 
stitutions presented by this remarkable people, so widely scattered 
over the surface of the earth. Their reUgious ablutions may 
be accounted for on the same principle — and so their laws of 
segregation, directed against contagion. 

But we shall now come to less debateable ground. It is clear 
that the Greeks in general, and Lycurgus in particular, considered 
a full expansion of the corporeal organs as essential to a com- 
plete development of the mental faculties : — in other words, that 
strength of mind resulted from, or was intimately associated 
with, strength of body. The first law which Lycurgus placed on 
the national sanitary code, was somewhat singular, namely, the 
destruction of all children bom with deformity or defect of any 
kind ! This was a pretty effectual mode of improving the breed 
of Spartans ! It certainly was more preventive of bad health, 
than conducive to longevity in the individual. 



8FABTAN SANITARY LAWS. 7 

It is manifest that Lycurgus was more solicitous to insure a 
race of able-bodied citizen soldiers to defend the state, than of 
philosophers and poets to instruct or delight mankind. It is im- 
possible he could be ignorant that a great mind might inhabit a 
feeble body — and that genius and talent were not incompatible 
with a crooked spine or a club-foot. Had Pope been bom in 
Laconia, the Poet of Twickenham would never have " lisped in 
numbers," or timed his lyre to the Rape of the Lock. Had 
Byron, even, been a Spartan, Childe Harolde would have found a 
watery grave in the Eurotas, or been hurled over Mount Taygeta, 
and Don Juan would never have invoked the ashes of Greece from 
the towers of Missalounghi. 

The Spartan law was as impolitic as it was inhuman. Intel- 
lectual vigour is as necessary to a nation as physical force. Brain 
is at least as useful to the individual as bone or muscle. One 
man of talent and probity is more valuable to society than a hun- 
dred giants. The Grecian camp could better have spared Ajax 
than Ulysses. Should any utilitarian law, like that of Lycurgus, 
be ever revived in this world, the principle of it ought to be re- 
versed. Instead of a jury of doctors to pronounce on the physical 
imperfections of the body, we should have a board of phrenologists 
to guage the vicious propensities of the mind. In such cases, if 
all those whose heads presented a preponderance of the mere 
animal over the intellectual organization, were drowned, we should 
then indeed be going to the root of the evil, and have a radical 
reform in human nature, as well as an eiFectual check to redun- 
dancy of population. 

But passing over the barbarous ordeal in the sanitary code of 
Lycurgus, let us see whether the laws, or rather the customs 
(which are stronger) of the Spartans, furnish any useful infor- 
mation towards the present inquiry. During the first seven years 
of life, the Spartan youth, of both sexes, were left imder the care 
of their parents, who permitted the energies of Nature to develop 
the physical powers of their oiFspring, without any check to their 
exuberant and plastic elasticity. The propriety of the custom 
will be inquired into presently. At the completion of the seventh 
year, the education, mental and corporeal, was undertaken or 



O ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

superintended by the State. Both sexes were subjected to a 
regular system or discipline of bodily and intellectual culture. 
Their sports, their studies, their exercises, and probably their 
repasts, were all in public and in common. They were early and 
gradually exposed to atmospherical vicissitudes of every kind. 
Although moral, religious, and literary instruction formed part of 
this discipUne and education, iU is indisputable that physical per- 
fection was more anxiously aimed at than intellectual. 

The exercises of the body, in the Gymnasia, were great and 
prolonged, according as years advanced — while the food for the 
support of that body was simple, frugal, and but little varied. 
Hunger was the only sauce — and muscular exertion was the sole 
provocative.* Such a uniform and rigid system of training (in 
which the females, before marriage, participated) must have pro- 
duced a remarkable similarity of constitution, and a considerable 
congeniality of sentiment. Military glory being more the object 
of education than hterary fame, the labours of the Gymnasium 
(as has been observed before) preponderated exceedingly over those 
of the Portico. The influence of such systematic training on 
health, must have been astonishing — and scarcely less so on the 
morale than on the physique. Such strenuous exercise and simple 
food must have controlled the passions, and nurtured the virtues 
of man, beyond all the precepts of priests or philosophers. For 
it is to be remembered that, however Utopian such a system might 
be in our days, it was actually reduced to practice in former ages, 
and its results recorded in authentic history. It developed the 
bodily powers to the utmost — it nearly annihilated all other kinds 
of disease than that of death, the inevitable lot of mankind. 
Even in our own times, this rigid regimen and discipline have 
been successfully adopted by individuals, from various motives. 

With £dl these advantages, it may be asked how and why did 
these people degenerate } Alas ! there is a principle of decay in 

* According to Xenophon, the discipline of tlie Persian youth, in the time 
of Cyrus, was still more severe than that of the Lacedasmonian. Coarse 
bread and herbs formed the diet of advanced youth, though they were 
undergoing the fatigues of military exercises, while their beds were the earth, 
with the canopy of Heaven for their curtains. 



BSAHMINICAL AND FTTHAQORBAX DOCTRINES. 9 

nations as well as individuals. It is also to be borne in mind, that 
the ancients had no true religion to check the vices of human 
nature, and guide the principles which lead to happiness and 
prosperity. It is curious, however, that all those states where 
paganism or idolatry prevailed, have crumbled into dust, or are 
tottering on the verge of ruin ; while no Christian nation has yet 
degenerated into barbarism or lapsed into ignorance, since the 
dark ages. Even Italy, where the worst forms of government are 
united with the least pure forms of Christianity, is not an ex- 
ception. Even there, science, Uterature, art, and even morality 
are steadily, though slowly advancing. 

Before quitting the subject of public hygiene, it may be proper 
to glance at the precepts of Pythagoras and his disciples. These 
precepts or doctrines appear to have been founded partly on reli- 
gious, partly on moral, and partly on sanitary principles. The 
constant conversion of every kind of matter from one form into 
others, of man into earth, of earth into vegetables, and of vege- 
tables into animated beings, coupled with the belief that the souls 
of men migrated into the bodies of animals, may have generated 
scruples in the minds of the Brahminical and Pythagorean philo- 
sophers, as to the propriety of eating any thing that had life, 
though a deeper philosophy would have taught them that the 
same objection lay against vegetable food. But it is probable that 
Pythagoras was swayed more by philanthropic than by theological 
principles in his doctrines. He may have thought, and not without 
reason, that those who slaughtered and fed on the flesh of animals, 
would acquire a callosity or insensibihty to the shedding of human 
blood. That this was the view of Pythagoras, has been main- 
tained by a modem philosopher and physician of supereminent 
talents. 

Hence drew th' enlightened Sage, the moral plan. 

That Man should ever be the friend of Man — * 

Should view with tenderness all living forms. 

His brother -emmets and his sister-worms. 

Will those who are best versed in a knowledge of mankind, 
and who have best observed the influence of habits, regimen, an4 
other external agents on the human race, deny that there is any 



10 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

truth in the doctrines of Pythagoras ? For my own part, I had 
rather trust my life to the tender mercies of the shepherd who 
tends his flocks on the wild mountain's side, than to the butcher 
who slays those flocks in his shambles, and inhales, from morn 
till night, the reeking odour of animal gore. Are not the Hin- 
doos, whose food is almost exclusively vegetable, less implacable, 
ferocious, and passionate, than the carnivorous nations ? Does 
not a survey of the animal kingdom bring us to the same conclu- 
sion ? The CARNIVORE are much more fierce, rapacious, and cruel 
in their nature, than the herbivore. Compare the horse with 
the tiger — the dove with the vulture — the fawn with the leopard 
— the rabbit with the cat. 

The Pythagorean doctrines, however, were very erroneous in 
a sanitary point of view. Man was evidently designed to eat 
both animal and vegetable food — and the Hindoos do not attain 
longer life than other people under similar circumstances as to 
climate. They are not so strong as the Mahometans of the 
same country, who eat animal food. But, although Brahma and 
Pythagoras greatly over-rated the salutary influence of their diet- 
etic systems on health, they were not totally in error. There 
are many disorders which do not materially curtail the usual 
range of existence, but yet disturb many of its enjoyments. 
Such disorders are often dependent on the quantity of animal 
food consumed by Europeans. There are systems of diet, on 
the other hand, which do not, perhaps, conduce to longevity, 
or to robust health, but which render the stream of time much 
more placid, and life itself less dolorous than they otherwise 
would be. Such, for instance, is the slender and unirritating food 
of the Hindoo. 

The foregoing observations are sufficient to shew that, in an- 
cient times, pubhc hygiene or the health of the community, 
was often made the subject of religious, legislative, or philoso- 
phical enactments, from each of which some useful hints may 
be obtained. In our times, all is changed. Every individual 
now legislates for himself, in respect to his health, or intrusts it, 
when impaired, to the care of the physician. But, since legis- 
lators, divines, and philosophers have ceased to impose their sani- 



LIFE DIVIDBD INTO TEN SEPTENNIADS. 11 

tary regulations on the people, many hundred volumes have been 
written on health and longevity. Almost the only one, and 
perhaps the best, which is consulted in England, is the volu- 
minous compilation of our countryman, Sir John Sinclair, who 
was not a physician. He, like his predecessors, has fallen into 
the error of gi%'ing us a multiplicity of details, with a paucit}'^ of 
principles : — the former, too often inapplicable or impracticable — 
the latter, very generally unintelligible or erroneous. The plans 
or arrangements of authors, on this subject, have been innumera- 
ble. Neither these nor the materials of their tomes shall I copy ; 
but draw on the resources of my own observation and reflection 
for whatever I adduce in this Essay. 

I shall divide the life of man — brief as it is found in final 
retrospect, but interminable as it appears in early perspective — 
into ten epochs or periods, of seven years each, which, though 
blending and amalgamating at their junctions, are yet clearly 
marked by distinctive characteristics in their several phases. 
Simple and isolated as the subject of health may seem, in 
these ten Septenniads, it will probably be found to touch, if not 
embrace 

" Quicquid agunt Homines, votum, timor, ira, voluptas," 

many — perhaps most, of those actions, passions, enjoyments, and 
sufi^erings that constitute the drama of human life ! 



12 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 



FIRST SEPTENNIAD. 

[1 to 7 years*'} 

For some time after man's entrance into the world, his existence 
is merely animal or physical. He cries, feeds, and sleeps. His 
intellectual functions are nearly nul; while those of the little 
bodily fabric are in a state of the most intense activity. Gradu- 
ally the senses awake, and the avenues of communication be- 
tween the surroimding world and the living microcosm, are 
opened. External impressions are conveyed to the sensorium 
or organ of the mind, and there produce sensations, which be- 
come progressively more distinct, and, by frequent reiteration, lay 
the foundation of memory and association. During the first sep- 
tenary period, reflection can hardly be said to take place. 
Nature is busily employed in building up the corporeal structure 
— and the mind is occupied, almost exclusively, in storing up 
those materials for future thought, which the vivid senses are in- 
cessantly pouring in on the sensory of the soul. 

These few facts (and they might be multiplied to any extent) 
may furnish important hints to the parent, the pedagogue, and 
the philanthropist. It is during the first and second Septenniads, 
that the foundations of health and happiness, of physical force, 
intellectual acquirements, and moral rectitude, are all laid ! Yet 
the arch-enemy of mankind wovdd have found it difiicult to 
devise a system or code of education for body and mind, better 
calculated to mar each and every of the above objects, than that 
which is adopted by the wise men of the earth at this moment. 
The first and second Septenniads are probably the most impor- 
tant to the interests of the individual and of society, of the whole 
ten. It is while the wax is ductile that the model is easily 
formed. In the early part of childhood, and even of youth, 

• The last j'ear in each Septenniad is always included and considered as 
completed. 



EDUCATION DURING THE FIRST 8EFTENNIAD. 13 

every fibre is so redolent — so exuberant of vitality, that rest is 
pain, and motion is pleasure. In infancy the organ of the 
mind (the brain with its dependencies) presides over, and fur- 
nishes energy to, every other organ and function in the body. 
At this period, be it remembered, these organs and functions are 
in the greatest degree of growth and activity ; and therefore the 
brain (or organ of the mind) requires to be at liberty to direct 
its undivided influence to their support. If it were possible to 
bring intellectual operations into play, in the mind of the infant, 
the brain and nervous system could not supply the proper power 
for digestion, assimilation, and nutrition ; and the whole ma- 
chine would languish or decay. Now these facts apply, more 
or less, to a great part of the first Septenniad — or even of 
the second — and here we have the true physiological cause and 
explanation of the havoc which is produced in youthful frames 
by premature exertion of the intellectual faculties ! Nor is it 
the body exclusively that sufi^ers from precocious culture of the 
mind. The material tenement of the soul cannot be shattered 
without injury to its spiritual tenant. It may be true, in some 
figurative sense, that 

" The soul's dark cottage, batter'd and decay 'd, 
Admits new lights through chinks which time has made." 

This can only refer to the common wear and tear of body, and the 
lights of age and experience — but, even in this point of view, I 
doubt the dogma of the bard, and apprehend that the said hghts 
would shine full as well through the proper windows of the 
" soul's dark cottage," as through those cracks and rents that are 
effected by time and infirmity. 

I have alluded to the Spartan custom of leaving the youth, 
during the first seven years, under the guidance of the parents, 
who permitted the physical powers of their offspring to develop 
themselves without control. What is the case with us ? Dur- 
ing a considerable portion of that period the youth is " got 
out of the way," and imprisoned in a scholastic hot-bed or nur- 
sery, where the " young ideas," instead of being left to shoot 
out slowly, are forced, out rapidly, to the great detriment of the 

c 



14 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

intellectual soil, thus exhausted by too early and too frequent 
crops. 

It has been observed that the organ of the mind, in the first 
stages of our existence, is exclusively occupied with its animal 
functions. It soon, however, is able to allot a portion of its 
power to the operations of the immaterial tenant. If this power 
were more gradually and gently exercised than it now is, we 
would have stronger frames and sounder minds. We might 
unite, in a considerable, degree, the strength of the savage with 
the wisdom of the sage. As education, in this, as well as in the 
two succeeding Septenniads, is both physical and moral, we shall 
adopt this division of the subject. 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF THE FIRST SEPTENNIAD. 

1. Food. — It is fortunate for man that nature furnishes him 
with sustenance during the first nine months of his existence. 
The milk of the mother or a healthy nurse is a more salutary and 
scientific compound of animal and vegetable nutriment than he 
ever afterwards imbibes. He has hardly left his mother's bosom, 
however, before the work of mischief commences, and which sel- 
dom ceases till he approaches second childhood, or has sufi^ered 
severely by the imprudence of his parents and the early indul- 
gence of his own appetites ! Nature furnishes teeth, as solid food 
becomes necessary ; and the transition from milk to meat should 
not be too abrupt. The teeth are protruded slowly and succes- 
sively ; and, during this period, milk and farinaceous food should 
predominate over that which is purely animal.* 

* Dr. Loudon, late of Leaunington, has published an ingenious treatise on 
the prevention of redundant population, in which he advocates the practice 
of mothers suckling their children until the latter are three years old. He 
recommends that the mother's milk alone should he the infant's nutriment 
during the first fourteen months — ^that is, till it can sit on its seat, and take 
food in that position, without danger of suffocation. From the fourteenth 
month till the end of the third year, the nourishment should be partly the 
milk of the mother, and partly cow's or goat's milk, boiled with farinaceous 
substance, lie advises vegetable and farinaceous food from the end of the 



PHYSICAL EDUCATION CLOATHINO. 15 

But errors of diet, in the first Septenniad, do not consist so 
much in the quantity of food, as in the provocative variety with 
which the infantile and unsophisticated palate is daily stimulated. 
The rapid growth of infancy requires an abundant supply of plain 
nutritious aliment ; but it is at this early period, that simplicity 
in kind, and regularity in the periods of meals, would establish 
the foundation for order and punctuedity in many other things, 
and thus conduce to health and happiness through life. 

As the first nutriment which Nature furnishes, is a compound 
of animal and vegetable matters, so should it be for ever after- 
wards. In youth, and especially during the first Septenniad, 
milk and farinaceous substances should form the major part of the 
diet, with tender animal food once a-day. As the teeth multiply, 
the proportions of the two kinds of sustenance ought gradually 
and progressively to vary. 

2. Cloathing. — Because we come naked into the world, it 
does not follow that we should remain so. Natture supplies ani- 
mals with coats, because the parents of animals have no manu- 
factories of linen and woUen. The dress with which Nature 
doathes the young animal is nearly uniform over the whole body ; 
but not so that which man, or rather woman constructs for the 
infant. Some parts are covered five-fold — some left naked. In 
many of the most civilized countries of the world, the child is 
placed in " durance vile" — in bondage — or at least in bandage, 
the moment it sees the light ! This practice, which commences 
in ignorance, is continued by fashion, till it ends in disease, and 



third year, til! the period of the second dentition, when animal food is to be 
allowed. 

This practice or proposition is not so Utopian as may at first appear. In 
the time of Ambrose Par^the ladies of the French court suckled their infants 
from eighteen to twenty months. The Koran prescribes two years for 
suckling. It appears that Isaac was at the breast two years. It may be 
objected that few modern ladies could nurse their offspring so long as this ; 
but it is doubtful whether their constitutions do not suffer more by repeated 
labours and frequent miscarriages than by protracted lactation. — Note to 4th 
Edition. 



16 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

entails misery and sufferings on the individual and the offspring, 
from generation to generation. But more of this hereafter. 

If many of our disorders are produced through the agency of 
improper food or deleterious suhstances on the internal organs, 
so a great number of maladies are induced through the medium 
of atmospheric impressions and vicissitudes on the external surface 
of the body. These cannot be counteracted or rendered harmless 
by either very warm or very light cloathing. The great antidote 
to alternations of climate, consists in early and habitual exposure 
to transitions of temperature, drought, humidity, &c. This may 
be safely effected at aU periods of life, from infancy to old age ; 
and the practice, which is both easy and pleasant in operation, 
would save, annually, an immense waste of life, and a prodigious 
amount of sufferings in this countr5\ It is simply the alternate 
application of warm and cold water (by immersion or sponging) — 
during the first year, or two, to the whole body — and afterwards, 
to the face, neck, and upper parts of the chest, every morning. 
The application of cold water alone, will not be sufficient. There 
must be the sudden and rapid succession of heat and cold — which 
I would term the calido-frigid fortifier, or preservative. This 
process not only imitates and obviates the atmospheric vicissitudes 
of our own climate ; but is, in itself, salutary in any climate. The 
hot water excites the surface to which it is applied, and fills the 
capillary vessels with blood. The cold water braces the vessels 
thus distended, without repelling the fluid too forcibly towards the 
interior, or producing a chiU — since the heat and excitement of 
the surface secure us against a sudden retrocession. 

It may be asked " how does this protect us from the intro- 
duction of cold air into the lungs ?" I answer, that Nature 
provides against this daily and hourly contingency. The tem- 
perature of the atmospheric air is brought to a par with that of 
the body, while passing down through the air-tubes, and before 
it reaches the air-cells of the lungs. For one cold that is caught 
by inhaling cold air, one hundred colds are induced by the 
agency of cold and moisture on the surface of the body. The 
CALIDO-FRIGID LAVATioN or sponging, above-mentioned, secures 



EXERCISE. 17 

US effectually from face-aches, ear-aches, tooth-aches,* and 
head-aches ; besides rendering us insusceptible of colds, coughs — 
and in no small number of instances — of consumption itself. 
The practice is common in Russia and some other countries ; and 
the principle is well understood by the profession in all countries ; 
but the adoption of the practice is exceedingly limited in these 
Islands, where it would prove extremely salutary. Excepting in 
infancy, there is no occasion for the calido-frigid application to 
the whole body, by means of immersion or sponging : — at all 
periods of life afterwards, the mere sponging of the upper parts 
of the body, already mentioned (to which I would add the feet), 
first with hot, and then immediately with cold water, will be quite 
sufficient to prevent a multitude of ills, a host of infirmities — and 
let me add, a number of deformities, to which flesh is heir, 
without this precaution. 

As to cloathing, during the first Septenniad, I shall say little 
more than that it should be warm, light, and loose. It will be time 
enough — alas ! too soon — to imitate the Egyptian mummy, when 
girls become belles, and boys beaux. I beg, for the first and 
second Septenniads at least, full liberty for the lungs to take 
air, the stomach food, and the limbs exercise, before they are 
•' cribb'd, cabin'd, and confin'd" by those destructive operatives, 
the milliner, the tailor, and the boot-maker, cum multis aliis, who 
rank high among the purveyors or jackals to the doctor and the 
undertaker ! 

Much stress has been laid upon the use of flannel in all periods 
of our life. If the preservative against vicissitudes of climate, 
to which I have alluded, be employed, flannel will seldom be 
necessary, except where the constitution is very infirm, or the 
disposition to glandular affections prominent. At all events, it 
should be very light, and worn outside of the linen, in this 
tender age. 

3. Exercise. — During the first Septenniad, exercise may be 

♦ The mouth should be rinsed with hot water and then immediately with 
cold, every morning throughout the year. If this were regularly done from 
infancy, the dentist might shut up shop. 

c2 



lo ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

left almost entirely to the impulses of Nature. The great modem 
error is the prevention of bodily exercise by too early and pro- 
longed culture of the mind. In the first years of life, exercise 
should be play, and play should be exercise. Towards the end 
of the first Septenniad, some degree of order or method may be 
introduced into playful exercise, because it will be essential to 
health in the second and third epochs. Even in this first epoch, 
exercise in the open air should be enjoined, as much as the season 
and other circumstances will permit. The windows of the nursery 
ought to be open during the greater part of the day, and the 
nurserj'-maids and mistresses, who cannot bear the air, are very 
unfit for the physical education of children. 

4. Sleep. — In early infancy, the child, if well, only wakes 
to suck, and then falls asleep again. Nutrition, at that period, 
seems to be the sole end and object of Nature — and this object 
is best attained during sleep. In that state, the whole powers 
of the constitution, and more especially of the digestive organs, 
are concentrated on the process of converting the milk of the 
nurse into the flesh and blood of the child. Throughout all 
periods of life afterwards, it is found that rest at least, if not 
sleep, promotes digestion — and that corporeal or mental exertion 
disturbs or retards that important process. The sleep of infants 
is greatly interrupted by irritation in the stomach and bowels 
from improper food of the nurse. Hence the artificial modes of 
inducing sleep by the motion of the cradle — the music of the 
mother's voice — or the reprehensible practice of exhibiting 
soothing medicines. A child never cries but from pain, and, in 
nine cases out of ten, this pain results from indiscretions of diet 
on the part of the mother or wet-nurse. The instances are very 
few indeed where opiates of any kind can be safely given to 
children during the first Septenniad. The s3Tups, paregorics, 
and carminatives, so often and so rashly administered to infants, 
are little less than poisons in disguise. As acidities in the first 
passages are the most common causes of pain and sleeplessness 
in children, so a little magnesia or soda will often sooth and lull 
to repose when opiates would increase the irritation. This applies 



MORAL EDUCATION. 19 

indeed to many periods of riper years. Twenty grains of soda 
going to bed will often procure tranquil sleep, and ward oflf the 
nightmare, when opium would only add to the misery of tumul- 
tuous dreams. 



MORAL EDUCATION OF THE FIRST SEPTENNIAD. 

The first seven years of life must not be given up entirely to 
the phybical development of the constitution ; though that is a 
most important part of the parent's duty. A great deal of moral 
culture may be effected in this period : but I apprehend that it 
ought to be very different in kind, in mode, and in degree, from 
what it is at present. During some years of this first Septenniad, 
many children of the lower, and even of the middle classes are 
cooped iip in a crowded and unwholesome school-room, for several 
hours in the day, to the great detriment of their health and morals, 
and with very little benefit to their intellectual faculties. Among 
the higher classes, it is not so bad ; yet there, the children are too 
much drilled by tutor or governess, and by far too little exercised 
in body. 

The principle which I advocate is this : that, during the first, 
and even during tlie second Septenniad, the amount of elementary 
learning now required should be less, and the daily periods of 
study shorter : — that sport and exercise should be the regular 
and unfailing premium on prompt and punctual acquisition of the 
lessons prescribed — in short, that elementary education should be 
acqmred " cito, tuto, ac jucund^" — instead of being a wearisome 
task, irksome to the mind, and injurious to the body. 

But, if I declare myself adverse to the system of precocious 
exercise of the intellect, I am an advocate for early moral culture 
of the mind. It is during the first years of our existence, that 
the foundation of habits and manners is laid ; and these wiU be 
good or bad, afterwards, according to their foundations. Order 
is truly said to be " Heaven's first law" — and so it should be the 
first injunction on childhood. The brightest talents are often 
rendered useless by the want of order and system in our amuse- 



20 ECONOMY OF HKALTH. 

ments, studies, and avocations. The best temper or the purest 
intention will not compensate for want of regularity, industry, and 
punctuality. Habit is the result of impression, rather than of 
reflection ; and youth is the age for receiving impressions rather 
than for exercising the judgment. Order may be instilled into 
the juvenile mind long before that mind is capable of perceiving 
the utility of the discipline ; in the same way that the rules of 
grammar are learnt before the application of these rules can be 
even imagined by the pupil. From long study, and, perhaps, a 
considerable knowledge of human nature, I most earnestly exhort 
parents, guardians, and tutors to enforce, with all their energy, 
the most rigid system of order, regularity, and puncttjalitt, 
from the very earliest period of infancy up to the age of discretion. 
Half, and more than half of our miseries, crimes, and misfortunes, 
in after-life, are attributable to the misplaced indulgence, or 
culpable negligence of our parents. " Spare the rod and spoil 
the child," is a maxim that was founded in experience, though it 
has been nearly exploded by speculative philanthropists not deeply 
versed in the knowledge of man. The rod, in most cases, may be 
spared ; but, if order and obedience cannot be enforced by other 
means, the rod should be applied. 

The whole material world, and, as far as we can judge, the 
whole universe, is subjected to, and governed by, certain laws 
of periodicity, which preserve order and harmony everywhere. 
Our mental and corporeal constitutions are controlled by similar 
laws of periodicity, and we should subject all our actions, passions, 
pleasures, and labours to laws, in imitation of those which Nature 
has established. Thus, in infancy and youth, the sleep, exercise, 
play, meals — every thing, in short, which is done, should be done 
at regular and stated periods, and the habit of regularity, thus 
early established, would become a second nature, and prove a real 
blessing through life. There is not a single office, profession, or 
avocation, from the high duties of the Monarch down to the vile 
drudgery of the dustman, that does not owe half its honours, 
respectability, and success to punctuality. 



THE SCHOOLMASTER. 21 

SECOND 8EPTENNIAD. 

[7 to 14 years. 1 
" Creeping, like snail, unwillingly to school." 

The Second (too oft the first) Septenniad introduces us to one 
of the most important personages in this world — a personage, 
whose image is never effaced from our memory, to the latest day 
of our existence ! Who have ever forgotten that happy or un- 
happy epoch of their Uves, and that stern arbiter of their fate, 
when they were wont — 



to trace 



The day's disaster in his morning face ? 

After the lapse of more than half a century, the lineaments of his 
countenance are as fresh on the tablet of my memory, as on the 
first day of their impression. These reminiscences are not unac- 
companied by some compunctions of conscience. The personage 
in question, is one who is " more sinned against than sinning." 
His office can only be envied by that public functionary who ex- 
ecutes the last and most painful sentence of the law — or rather 
by the victim, who ascends the scaffold without hope of reprieve ! 
He who cultivates the soil under his foot, has generally a fair 
recompence for his labour — and, at all events, he is not upbraided 
for the failure of his harvests. But he who cultivates the brains 
of pupils, whether male or female, has often a most ungrateful 
task to perform. To hope for a good crop of science or literature 
from some intellects, is about the same, as to expect olives to 
thrive on the craggy summit of Ben Nevis, or the pine-apple to 
expand amid the Glaciers of Grindenwalde. Yet, from these 
steril regions of mind, the hapless pedagogue is expected by 
peirents to turn out Miltons, Lockes, and Newtons, with as much 
facility as a gardener raises brocoli or cauliflowers from the rich 
alluvial grounds about Fulham or Rotterdam ! It is in vain for 
poor Syntax to urge in excuse, that — 



22 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

" Non ex aliquovis ligno fit Mercurius." 

This is only adding insult to injury, in the eyes of the parents, 
who consider that any hint of imperfection in the offspring, is, 
by inuendo, a reproach cast on themselves. Under such circum- 
stances, it is not much to be wondered at, if the preceptor, thus 
compelled 

" To force a churlish soil for scanty bread," 

should sometimes become a little severe and morose himself. ' 
Be this as it may, I believe that few of our youth (of either 
sex), who evinced talent or assiduity in their juvenile studies, 
have much reason to associate the memory of the schoolmaster 
with feelings of resentment or reproach. 

It is in this Septenniad, which may be stUed, par excellence, 
the scholastic, that the seeds of much bodily ill and moral evU 
are sown. In this, and often in the latter part of the first Sep- 
tenniad, the powers of the mind are forced, and those of the body 
are crippled. The progress of civilization, literature, science, and 
refinement, has rendered this state of things unavoidable. It may 
be mitigated, but it cannot be prevented. Knowledge is power. 
Bodily strength is now of little use in the struggle for power, 
riches, or fame : — mental endowments and acquirements are all 
in all. Togse cedant Anna ! The soldier of a hundred battles, 
and as many victories, doflFs the glittering helmet and nodding 
plume, to assume the scholar's cap and golden tassel. He throws 
aside the baton, and takes up the pen. Instead of the short, 
and spirit-stirring address to his compact cohorts on the carnage- 
covered field, he harangues whole comitia of learned doctors and 
grave divines, in the accents, and even in the language of Cicero ! 
If this be not the " march of intellect," from bannered tents to 
academic bowers, I know not what is. It is a striking illustra- 
tion and proof that the star of the morale is in the ascendant over 
that of the physique — that mind transcends matter — and that 
genius is superior to strength. 

But this does not prove that we are steering quite free from 
error, in cultivating the mind at the expense of the body. It is 
the duty of the medical philosopher, therefore, who has the best 



SCHOOLS. 23 

means of ascertaining the effects of excessive education, to point 
out the evil, and, if possible, to suggest the remedy. 

It will not be necessary to advert to more than the three prin- 
cipal modes of elementary instruction, viz. private tuition — public 
day-schools — and boarding-schools or seminaries. If we were to 
look merely to the health of the body, I should prefer the domestic 
tutor; but, all things considered, the second mode, or middle 
course — a public day-school (as the "Westminster, London Uni- 
versity, King's College, &c. &c.) is the best — verifying the old 
maxim, " in medio tutissimus ibis." The first mode is the most 
expensive — the second is the most beneficial, and the third is the 
most convenient. The private or domestic tuition is best calcu- 
lated for the nobility, and higher grades of the aristocracy, among 
some of whom there seems to prevaU, whether for good or evU, an 
idea that there are two species in the human race, between which 
there should be as little intercourse as possible. 

The second mode of education (the public day-school) is best 
adapted for all those who are to depend on their intellects through 
life — namely, the whole of the learned and scientific professions 
— more especially divinity, law, and physic. Those who are 
likely to mix much with their fellow-creatures during their 
sojourn in this world, had better begin to do so in a public 
school. Knives are sharpened by being rubbed against each 
other : — so are intellects. The flint and the steel wUl not emit 
sparks unless they come into collision ; — neither will brains. 
The coldest marble and the basest metal will glow with heat by 
friction ; and the solid oak will burst into flame by the same 
operation. The emulation of a public school will call energies 
into action, that would otherwise lie for ever dormant in the 
human mind. 

To the boarding-school there are objections, more or less co- 
gent, according to the extent of the establishment, and the degree 
of wisdom with which it is conducted. It cannot afford such a 
field for competition as a public school ; and the youth is not 
under the parental roof and eye during extra-scholastic hours. 
But as boarding-schools must ever be the seminaries of education 
for nine-tenths of the better classes of society, it is of the utmost 



24 ECONOMY OP HEALTH. 

consequence that the conductors of such institutions should have 
enlightened views on the subject of education, both as respects 
the morale and the physique — the health and the happiness of 
the pupU. 

Whether the scholastic institution be large or small, public 
or private, one radical evil is sure to pervade the system of edu- 
cation pursued therein — namely, (and I cannot repeat it too 
often,) the disproportion between exercise of the mind and exer- 
cise of the body — not merely as respects the sum-total of each 
species of exercise, but the mode of its distribution. The grasp 
at learning is preternatural, over-reaching, and exhausting. It 
is engendered and sustained by the dilFusion of knowledge, the 
density of population, and the difficulty of providing for famiUes. 
Our ambition to become great is perpetually increasing with the 
augmentation of knowledge, while our means of gratifying that 
ambition are constantly diminishing. If this be true, and I be- 
lieve it cannot be controverted, we are evidently in a fair way 
to illustrate the picture drawn by the Roman poet, some twenty 
centuries ago : — 

hie vivimus ambitiosa 

Paupertate omnes. 

But to return to the school. The lessons imposed on youth 
are too long ; and so, of course, are the periods of study. The 
consequence is, that the lesson is not got weU, because it is learnt 
amid languor and fatigue of the intellect. The grand principle 
of education is, or rather ought to be, the rapid and the perfect 
acquisition of small portions of learning at a time, the punctual 
premium being the interval of play. In this way, the idea of 
knowledge would be constantly associated with that of pleasure ; 
and each impression on the juvenile mind being vivid and dis- 
tinct, would consequently be lasting. 

But if the periods of study in the first years of the second 
Septenniad were reduced in length, as well as in the whole daily 
amount, I am far from thinking that the sum total of elementary 
learning acquired during the scholastic Septenniad, would be 
thereby diminished. What is lost in letters will be gained in 
health ; and this profitable exchange may enable the youth to 



SCHOOLS. 25 

sustain those increased exertions of the intellect which devolve on 
ulterior stages of scholastic and collegiate discipline. It is to be 
remembered, also, that the great majority of pupils are designed 
for other than the learned professions ; and to them a modicuji 
of health is often of more value than a magnum of literature. 

But, while I advocate more frequent intervals of relaxation 
from study, I would suggest to the directors of schools a greater 
attention to systematic exercises. The severe and athletic gym- 
nastics introduced some years ago by Volker, with all the en- 
thusiasm of a German, were better adapted to the Spartan youth, 
whose progenitors, male and female, had been trained in hke 
manner, than to the pallid sons of pampered cits, the dandies of 
the desk, and the squalid tenants of attics and factories. It was 
like putting the club of Hercules into the hands of a tailor, and 
sending slender snip to combat lions in the Nemaean forest — or 
giving the bow of Ulysses to be bent by the flaccid muscles of 
the eflFeminate man-milliner. This ultra-gymnastic enthusiast 
did some injury to an important branch of hygiene, by carrying 
it to excess, and consequently by causing its desuetude. Every 
salutary measure that was ever proposed, has been abused; but 
this forms no just grounds against its use. No school should 
be without a play-ground, and no play-ground without a gym- 
nasium of some kind, for the lighter modes of athletic exercise. 
The swinging-apparatus, at the Military Asylum, in Chelsea, 
seems well calculated for effecting that combination of active 
and passive exercise, so peculiarly adapted to the human frame 
in the present state of civilization and refinement. We have 
more mind and less muscle than the Lacedsemonians ; and, there- 
fore, art must accomplish what strength fails to do. It is in a 
more advanced period of life, that passive exercis6 is to be 
preferred to active ; in the second Septenniad, the latter should 
have the preponderance. In all gymnastic exercises, however, 
great regard should be paid to the constitutions of individuals. 
There are some youths, where a disposition to affections of the 
heart and great vessels prevails ; and to these cdl strong exercise 
is injurious, Tliose, also, who are predisposed to pulmonary 
complaints, must be cautious of athletic exercise. The profes- 



26 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

sional attendant of the family or school should examine into this 
point. 

On the subject of dietetic fare during the scholastic Septenniad, 
little need be said. It should be simple and substantial, rather 
than abstemious. The fabric that is daily building up, should 
have an ample supply of sound materials. These materials might, 
with advantage, be more varied in kind than they are in most se- 
minaries of education. Although game seldom smokes on the 
table of a boarding-school, yet " toujours perdrix " is an esta- 
blished canon of the kitchen there. 

In respect to the beverage of youth, during the first and se- 
cond Septenniads, a great error has been committed by modern 
mothers, in substituting for the salutary prescription of Pindar 
(" water is best ") the daily glass of wine, with cake or condi- 
ment, for the smiling progeny round the table after dinner. 
The juvenile heart dances joyously enough to the music of the 
animal spirits — and the rosy current of the circulation runs its 
merry rounds sufficiently rapid, without impetus from wine, 
Tlie practice in question is reprehensible on more accounts than 
one. It early estabUshes the habit of pampering the appetite — 
a habit that leads to countless ills in after-life. It over-stimu- 
lates the organs of digestion, at a period when their nerves are 
supersensitive — their excitabihties exuberant — and their sympa- 
thies most active and multiplied. If such be the case in youth, 
can we wonder at the universality of dyspeptic complaints in 
middle-age ? It is to be remarked, that this practice is less pre- 
valent among the highest ranks of life, than among the various 
subordinate grades. It increases as we descend, till we shudder 
at the sight of liquid fire, exhibited to the sickly infant in the 
sordid hovel ! On such a subject need I say more .'' or could I 
say less ? Bad habits are early enough learnt — they ought never 
to be taught ! 

In the second Septenniad, the schoolmaster should pursue the 
path which the parent had trodden ; and, enforce, with the ut- 
most rigour, a system of order, regularity, and punctuality, in 
every thing which the pupil does. It is in this epoch, as in the 
previous one, that the passions of youth should be controlled — 



700D AND BEVERAOB. 27 

even by punishments, if necessary. If the Boy is taught, in early 
life, to respect the feelings, the comforts, and the happiness of 
his playmates and schoolfellows, the Man will afterwards obey 
the laws of God and his country in society at large. The ty- 
ranny which the strong often exercise over the weak in schools, 
and the annoyances which the vicious occasion to the well-dis- 
posed youth, ought to be punished with ten times more severity 
than neglect of study. The degrading and barbarous system of 
" FAGGING," so loug prevalent in the Westminster and other 
schools, would disgrace a horde of Hottentots, or a colony of 
Siberians. It is a system which often breaks the spirit, and even 
the health of many a generous mind ; while it fosters those innate 
propensities to selfishness, arrogance, and even cruelty, which re- 
quire the rein rather than the spur at every period of life. It is 
to be apprehended that the fear of offending parents, and other 
motives not the most disinterested, have prevented the expulsion 
from some private schools of turbulent spirits, or the correction of 
their vicious habits. 

Vice is a contagion of the most terrible virulence. It spreads 
with the rapidity of lightning — and every tainted individual be- 
comes a new focus, both for the concentration and the diffusion 
of the poison! It is a melancholy truth, that, in exact pro- 
portion as human beings (whether men, women, or children) 
become congregated together, there will evil be engendered, 
propagated and multiplied. This remark applies of course, to 
domiciliary associations, and from which the congregations in 
tiie Senate, the Church, and the Forum are excepted. It is pe- 
culiarly applicable to seminaries of education, of every kind ; 
and it is, perhaps, fortunate that society at large is not aware of 
the number, the species, and the magnitude of ills inflicted on 
mankind by the Lancastrian system of education — a system 
invented and practised many a century before Lancaster was 
bom. But, although the honest quaker must relinquish all title 
to originality on this point, he may fairly claim the superior 
merit of improvement. Pupils, in all ages, were in the habit of 
teaching each other — mischief : — Lancaster caused them to teach 
each other — knowledge. This last is " mutual instruction " — 



28 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

the former is " mutual destruction." But the new system did 
not supersede the old ; it was only superadded to it. It is, 
therefore, the bounden duty, as it should be the paramount ob- 
ject, of all parents, guardians, and tutors, to circumscribe as 
much as possible this " evil communication," which not only 
" corrupts good manners," but, perchance, good morals into the 
bargain! 

Having thus offered some remarks on the manner of education 
as connected with health, or at least with happiness, I doubt whe- 
ther I am justified in touching on the matter of education itself. 
My reflections shall be brief, and, if not founded in observation 
and in reason, they wUl fall to the ground. 

The two grand or cardinal objects of education, in my humble 
opinion, are, first, to curb the evil propensities of our nature, by 
increasing our knowledge or wisdom — and, secondly, to make us 
useful to society. That learning or knowledge does elevate the 
mind, humanize the heart, and prevent barbarism of manners, we 
have the best authority of antiquity — " emollit mores nee sinit 
esse feros." There can be no doubt that these effects flow, more 
or less, from aU kinds of learning or knowledge ; they are, how- 
ever, the more especial results of what may be termed, in a 
comprehensive sense, classical learning — or the study of 
great authors, modern as well as ancient. But, to obtain the 
second grand object of education — to become useful members of 
society, we must acquire knowledge of a very different kind — 
namely, science. It will not be sufficient to study philosophy, 
rhetoric, poetry, belles-lettres, &c. — we must learn the exact and 
the inexact sciences — the nature of things. A good educa- 
tion, then, is a happy combination, or a just proportion of learn- 
ing and knowledge — or, in other words, of literature and science. 
The proportions must vary, no doubt, according to the destination 
of the individual. The military cadet should not spend too much 
of his time on Greek and Latin. All that Homer has told us 
respecting the siege of Troy, would avail very little in the siege 
of Gibraltar or Malta. Even the eloquent and very useful art of 
running away, transmitted to us by Xenophon and the ten thou- 
sand Greeks, would have been of little use to Moore or Morbau, 



OBJECTS AND ENDS OF EDUCATION. 29 

in the mountains of Spain or the forests of Germany. So, again, 
the various voyages of Ulysses, between the Scamander and the 
Tyber — from the resounding Hellespont to the Pillars of Hercules, 
would be next to useless on the chart of a modem Mediterranean 
cruiser. This reasoning might be pushed to any lengths ; but it 
is not necesssiry. It appears to me, that among the upper, and 
even the middle classes of society, learning is cultivated somewhat 
at the expense of science — words are studied more than things — 
and the ornamental is preferred to the useful. 

If a man were cast in the antediluvian mould, and could cal- 
culate on numbering six or seven hundred years, instead of sixty 
or seventy, he might advantageously enough, dedicate ten or fif- 
teen years to the study of the dead languages, in order that he 
might dig for centuries afterwards, in the rich and inexhaustible 
mines of literature, philosophy, rhetoric, and poetry, to which 
these languages open the door. But I venture to doubt the 
policy of employing one-tenth, or more, of our short span of ex- 
istence in the acquirement of two dead languages, which we are 
forced to abandon almost immediately after they are learnt, and 
before we can do much more than view, at a distance, the fruits 
which they display. 

Suppose a young and adventurous traveller from Otaheite (in- 
tending to explore the great continental world) lands at Canton, 
and there finds that the "Celestial Empire" comprehends the 
whole of this globe, -with, the exception of a few islets, like his 
own, scattered around its almost boundless shores.* The lan- 
guage of the Celestials being wholly unknown to him, it requires 
seven years to acquire it, even imperfectly. He then sets out on 
his travels ; and, having crossed a great wall, and wandered over 
many mountains and deserts, he comes to another great country, 
whose language is totally different from that which he took such 
time and pains to study. He has no alternative, but to assign 
another seven years to the tongue of the white bear. At the con- 
clusion of this period, he finds letters of recal to his native Isle, 

• This is the geographical doctrine of the Chinese, and laid down as such 
on their charts. 

D 2 



30 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

and goes back with his head full of two languages, neither of 
which enables him to roast a pig or a prisoner better than his 
countrymen, who understand no other language but their own. 
Now, without meaning to compare Greek or Latin, with Chinese 
and Russian, I may safely aver, that the languages of Homer and 
Horace are of very little more use, to three-fourths of those into 
whose brains they are hammered, than the language of the Hindoo 
or Hun would be to the native of Owyhee or Otaheite. To the 
multitude, indeed, the dead languages are very nearly a dead loss 
— and for this good reason, that their avocations and pursuits, 
through life, prevent them from unlocking the magazines of learn- 
ing, to which those languages are merely the keys. Common 
sense is beginning to impress mankind with this truth. Even 
among the members of the learned and liberal professions, the 
time spent on the classics is too great, while that dedicated to the 
exact and inexact sciences is by far too short. The Ught of 
reason has actually penetrated the dark monastic cloisters of West- 
minster, and forced the sages of antiquity to associate on the same 
bench vnth the sons of modern science ! 

As the world grows older — as population multiplies — as com- 
petition becomes more intense — and as the difficulties of subsist- 
ing increase, time will be more and more valuable. It is, there- 
fore, probable (though perhaps to be deplored) that the aera is 
not far distant, when the study of dead languages and ancient 
literature will, in a great measure,^ give way to that of living 
tongues and modem discoveries. 

A curious problem might here be more easily started than 
solved, viz. what are the differences, as respects the individual, 
between the study of an original author, and a good translation } 
Suppose we take the lUad of Homer, and Pope's free translation 
of it. "Would the operations of the intellect, the elevation of sen- 
timent, the excitement of the feelings, and the exercise of the 
imagination, be materially different in the study of the one, from 
that which wovdd take place in the study of the other .'' I very 
much doubt whether the results would be greatly dissimilar. If 
this be the case, the study of the dead languages is of little use 
to the great mass of mankind. They are necessary, at present. 



LITERATURE AND SCIENCE. 31 

to those who are destined for law, divinity, the senate, and medi- 
cine. Those also who have nothing to do, may probably as well 
expend seven or ten years on Greek and Latin, as on any thing 
else. To authorship, too, now become so very extensive a busi- 
ness, the dead languages are essential ; though I question whether 
they conduce much to originality of thought. How did Homer 
and the great men of antiquity get on, seeing that they could not 
all have had the dead languages for models of study ? 

I shall hardly be accused of a gothic or barbarian insensibility 
to the beauties and benefits of classic lore. My prejudices run in 
a very diiFerent direction. But common sense, and some obser- 
vation of what is going forwards in the world, convince me that 
a day is rapidly approaching, when the necessary details of modern 
science will very much supersede the elegant pursuits of ancient 
literature.* 

Some of the remarks on the education of male youth will bear, 
mutatis mutandis, on that of the female ; but others vdll not. It 
cannot be said that too much of their time is dedicated to the 
Greek and Latin Classics. They are much fonder of hving tongues 
than of dead languages. The education of females is either do- 
mestic, or at the boarding-school. The former is, by far, the 
best. Notwithstanding the pains which are taken by the super- 
intendants of respectable seminaries, evils attach to congregations 
of young females, which no care can entirely prevent. Female 
education is indeed more detrimental to health and happiness than 
that of the male. Its grasp, its aim, is at accomplishments rather 
than acquirements — at gilding rather than at gold — at such oma- 



• Probably the chief advantage of learning the dead languages consists in 
the exercise of the mind during the acquisition of them. The intellectual 
powers are, unquestionably, very much strengthened and improved by this 
process ; but still we are to ask the question, might not exercise oi the mind, 
in the acquisition of modern science and living languages, be more beneficial 
to those who are not destined for the learned professions ? Even in the Se- 
nate and at the Bar, how extremely useful is a knowledge of modern science 
— and in the various departments of private life and private avocations, how 
much more important this knowledge than that of Greek and Latin ! \—4th 
Edition, 



32 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

ments as may dazzle by their lustre, and consume themselves, in 
a few years, by the intensity of their own brightness, rather than 
those which radiate a steady light tUl the lamp of life is extin- 
guished. They are most properly termed accomplishments ; be- 
cause they are designed to accomplish a certain object — matri- 
mony. That end, or rather beginning, obtained, they are about 
as useful to their owner, as a rudder is to a sheer hulk, moored 
head and stem in Portsmouth harboiu: — the lease of a house after 
the term has expired — or a pair of wooden shoes during a pa- 
roxysm of gout. 

The mania for music injures the health, smd even curtails the 
life of thousands and tens of thousands, annually, of the fair sex, 
by the sedentary habits which it enjoins, and the morbid sym- 
pathies which it engenders. The story of the Syrens is no fable. 
It is verified to the letter ! 

" Their song is death, and makes destruction please." 

Visit the ball-room and the bazaar, the park and the concert, the 
theatre and the temple : — among the myriads of young and beau- 
tiful, whom you see dancing or dressing, driving or chanting, 
laughing or praying — you will hardly find one in the enjoyment 
of health ! No wonder, then, that the doctors, the dentists, and 
the druggists, multiply almost as rapidly as the pianos, the harps, 
and the guitars ! 

The length of time occupied by music renders it morally im- 
possible to dedicate sufficient attention to the health of the body 
or the cultivation of the mind. The consequence is, that the 
corporeal functions languish and become impaired, — a condition 
which is fearfully augmented by the pecuHar effect which music 
has upon the nervous system. It will not be denied that every 
profession, avocation, or pursuit, modifies, in some degree, the 
moral and physical temperament of the individual. No art or 
science that ever was invented by human ingenuity exerts so 
powerful an influence on mind and body as music It is the 
galvanic fluid of harmony, which vibrates on the ear — electrifies 
the soul — and thrills through every nerve in the body. Is it 
probable that so potent an excitement can be daily applied, for 



MUSIC. 33 

many hours, to the sensitive system of female youth, without 
producing extraordinary effects ? It is impossible. If music have 
the power (and Shakespeare is our authoritj'^) 

" To soften rocks and bend the knotted oak," 

is it not likely to inflame the imagination and disorder the nerves ? 
All pungent stimuli produce inordinate excitement, followed, in 
the end, by a train of evils inducing debility and irritability. 
Every thing that merely delights the senses, without improving 
the understanding, must come under the head of sensual gratifica- 
tions, which tend, by their very nature, to excess. Music, like 
wine, exhilarates, in small quantities, but intoxicates in large. 
The indulgence of either, beyond the limits of moderation, is de- 
leterious. 

It is fortunate, however, that, on the majority of young females, 
chained to the piano, like the galley-slave to the oar, the vibrations 
of music fall inert, and the " concord of sweet sounds" flows from 
their tongues and their fingers as mechanically as from the rota- 
tions of the hurdigiirdy, or the wires of the musical snufi^-box. 
They only lose their time, and a certain portion of health, from 
want of exercise. They form the aristocracy of the " factory 
GiKLB," who have been so fortunate as to get their " ten hours' 
bill" reduced to six. But there is a considerable portion of 
young females whose organization is more delicate, and whose 
susceptibilities are more acute. To these the present inordinate 
study and practice of music (for it is inordinate) is injurious in 
various ways, by deranging a variety of functions. The nature 
and extent of these injuries are not generally known, and cannot 
be detailed here. But one effect, of immense importance, will not 
be denied — namely, the length of time absorbed in music, and the 
consequent deficiency of time for the acquisition of useful know- 
ledge, in the system of female education. If some of that time 
which is spent on the piano, the harp, and the guitar, were dedi- 
cated to the elements of science — or, at all events, of useful 
information, as modem languages, history, astronomy, geography, 
and even mathematics, there would be better wives and mothers. 



34 BCONOMT OF HEALTH. 

than where the mind is left, comparatively, an uncultivated blank, 
in order to pamper the single sense of hearing ! Mrs. SomervUle 
has stolen harmony from Heaven as well as St. Cecilia ! The 
subject is so important that, at the risk of tautology, I must take 
it up again in the third Septenniad, where the evil is even 
greater than in the second.* 

• It will probably be objected that I have despatched the first fourteen years 
of life much too briefly. My object, however, is not to work out minute 
DETAILS that are often useless, or, at least, unnecessary — but to establish 
principles. When these last are understood, every one may modify them and 
apply them to his own case without difficulty. 



DANGERS OF THB THIRD SBPTENKIAD. 35 

THIRD SEPTENNIAD. 

[14 to 21 years.} 

The stream of human life, during the third Septenniad, un- 
dergoes no trifling variations in its course, its volume, and its 
velocity. This epoch is among the most important of the ten. 
The plebeian youth exchanges the school-master for the task- 
master — the homely hearth for the toilsome workshop — the pa- 
rental indulgence for the tedious apprenticeship ! A grade higher 
in the scale of society, and we see the stripling youth leave 
the seminary, for the counting-house, the warehouse, or some 
of the thousand sedentary avocations, in which, from five to 
seven years of the very spring-tide of existence are consumed 
by the laws of civilization and commerce, in a species of servi- 
tude ! Higher still, and the scene shifts from the academy to 
the university — the one apparently a continuation of the other 
— both having the same object in view, the acquisition of know- 
ledge — but the transition often involving a great revolution in 
the end. 

The Third Septenniad is indeed the spring of life. In it 
the seeds of good or of evil, of virtue or vice, of science or ignor- 
ance, are sown. In it the physical functions act with boundless 
energy — the human frame expanding and taking on its form and 
dimensions ; while the mental powers display, in the great ma- 
jority of instances, their characteristic features, capacities, and 
propensities. It is in this stage of rapid development, intellec- 
tual and corporeal, that the greatest difficulty exists in preserving 
the physique within the boundaries of health, and confining the 
morale within the limits of virtue. How many minds are wrecked 
— how many constitutions ruined, during the third Septenniad ! ! 
The extent of the mischief — even of the moral evil, is less known 
to the priest than to the physician. At so early a period of hfe, 
when passions so much predominate over principles, it is not to 
be expected that the force of precept can be so efficient a pre- 



36 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

ventive as the fear of bodily suffering. If the youth of both 
sexes could see through the vista of future years, and there be- 
hold the catalogue of afflictions and sufferings inseparable atten- 
dants on TIME and humanity, they w^ould pause, ere they added 
to the number, by originating maladies at a period when Nature 
is endeavouring to fortify the material fabric against the influ- 
ence of those that must necessarily assail us, in the progress of 
life ! Yet it is in this very epoch, that some of the most deadly 
seeds of vice and disease are implanted in our spiritual and cor- 
poreal constitutions — seeds which, not merely " grow with our 
growth, and strengthen with our strength," but acquire vigour 
from our weakness, and obtain victory in our decay. This 
melancholy reflection is applicable to all classes and both sexes. 
The plebeian is not secured from the evil by poverty — nor the 
patrician by wealth. Neither are the middle classes protected 
by the golden mean, in which they are supposed to be placed. 
Civilization has decreed — and society has sanctioned the fiat — 
that youth, during the third Septenniad, shall experience much 
more tribulation of mind and afllhction of body, than was de- 
signed for it by Nature or Nature's God. The sedentary and 
insalutary avocations to which young people, of both sexes, in 
the middling and lower classes of society are confined, between 
the ages of 14 and 21, occasion dreadful havoc in health, and 
no small deterioration of morals. The drudgery, the scanty 
cloathing, the bad food, and the exposure to the elements, of the 
most indigent classes, are scarcely more injurious to health and 
life, than the sedentary habits, the impure air, and the depressing 
passions of the various species of artizans, mechanics, and shop- 
keepers, in the classes immediately above them. The infinite 
variety of new avocations, among these grades, has given rise to a 
corresponding infinity of physical and moral maladies, of which 
our forefathers were ignorant, and for which it requires much 
ingenuity, at present, to invent significant names. The incal- 
culable numbers of young females confined to sedentary avoca- 
tions, from morning till night — and, too often, from night till 
morning — become not only unhealthy themselves, but afterwards 
consign debility and disease to their unfortunate off^spring. It is 



BANOERS OP THB THIRD 8EPTENNIAD. 37 

thus that infirmities of body and mind are acquired, multiplied, 
transmitted from parent to progeny, and, consequently, perpetu- 
ated in society. The fashionable world — 

" The gay licentious proud. 



Whom pleasure, power, and affluence surround" — 

know not how many thousand females are annually sacrificed, 
during each season in this metropolis, by the sudden demand 
and forced supply of modish ornaments and ephemeral habili- 
ments ! They know not that, while they conscientiously believe 
they are patronising trade and rewarding industry, they are ac- 
tually depriving many thousand young women of sleep, air, and 
exercise ; — consigning them to close recesses and crowded attics, 
where the stimulus of tea, coflfee, and liqueurs is rendered neces- 
sary to support the corporeal fabric — and, where the congregation 
of juvenile females, under such circumstances, conduces to any 
thing rather than vigour of constitution or morality of sentiment ! 
The secrets of the prison-house come out more frequently on the 
bed of sickness than on the bed of death. They fall more under 
the cognizance of the physician than of the divine. When the 
curteiin is falling on the last scene, the fair penitent and the hoary 
oiFender have neither time nor power to recall or relate the dark 
incidents of the drama now closing for ever ! It is during the 
bustle of life, when health is in jeopardy, and pains and penalties 
are in the course of infliction, that the causes of human ills, and 
the consequences of human frailties, moral and physical, are re- 
vealed with a candour unlikely to obtain under any other circum- 
stances. The disclosures are as safe in the bosom of the phy- 
sician as of the priest ; and, for very obvious reasons, they are 
more frequently revealed, in this country at least, for the recovery 
of health, than for a passport to Heaven.* Let not the parson 

* "What says Hannah More ? "I used to wonder why people should be 
so fond of the company of their physician, till I recollected that he is the 
only person with whom one dares (toj talk continually of oneself, without 
interruption, contradiction, or censure." This is true, so far as it goes. 
But it falls infinitely short of the mark. The individual does not talk of 
himself or herself from pure egotism, which is vanity ; but, from the uni- 



38 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

be jealous of the doctor in this case. Tlie services of the latter 
are nearly as soon forgotten by the patient, after emerging into 
society, as those of the former are, when he " shuffles off this 
mortal coil," and passes the waters of oblivion. But this is by 
the way. 

Large as is the class to which I have been alluding, it is as a 
drop of water in the ocean, compared with the myriads of youth, 
male and female, pent up in the foul atmospheres of our count- 
less factories, inhaling alike the moral and physical poison that 
corrupts the mind while it enervates the body ! Is it improbable 
that the individual deterioration thus extensively diffused among 
the lower orders of the community, should, in process of time, 
affect a considerable mass of society at large } I think it is far 
from improbable that, some ten or twelve centuries hence, when 
Australia shall have become a powerful nation — Asia be go- 
verned by limited monarchs of native birth — the Antilles a 
swarm of independent republics, of all hues, between jet black 
and white — when America shaU exhibit a long series of disunited 
states, stretching from Terra del Fuego to the barren coast of 
Labrador — when British dominion shall not extend beyond the 
British Isles, if so far — then, probably, some contemplative phi- 
losopher may stand on the banks of the Thames, as Gibbon stood 
on the tower of the Capitol, musing and meditating on the " de- 
cline and fall" of a great empire, and on the degeneracy of a 
people whose arms, arts, and commerce had long been the theme 
of universal admiration and envy ! I know not why Britain can 
expect to escape the fate of Greece, of Rome, and of all the great 
nations of antiquity. Youth, manhood, decrepitude, and decay, 
are the destiny of kingdoms as well as of individuals. The body 

versal impulse of human and animal nature — self-preservation. If it 
were for the pleasure of hearing oneself talk, would man and woman disclose 
their sins, their foibles, or their mistakes ? No, verily ! They do so, most 
wisely, in order that the physician may have a clear knowledge of the causes 
of their maladies, and, consequently, a better chance of removing them. In 
this point, at least, wisdom predominates over vanity. It is honorable to the 
medical profession, that hardly an instance is on record where any other 
advantage is taken of free confession than the benefit of the confessor. 



DEGENBRATIOK OF CONSTITTTTION. 39 

POLITIC is subject to the same phases, revolutions, disorders, and 
decay as the human body. And although there may be, and I 
believe there is, something in the climate, soil, genius, and race 
of Britons that will offer a most obstinate and protracted resis- 
tance to the inevitable causes of national deterioration, yet he 
must be blind indeed who does not perceive the onward working 
of these causes in our own days. Nations are only aggregations 
of individuals — and whatever be the influence, whether good or 
evil, that operates on a considerable number of the population, 
that influence will radiate from ten thousand centres, and diffuse 
its effects, sooner or later, over the whole surface of the com- 
munity. There is no special boundary, in this country, between 
the diflferent classes of society, that can limit the sphere of moral 
or physical evil. 

The same contemplative philosopher, when surveying the stunted 
beings composing the mass of a degenerated manufacturing popu- 
lation, will be likely to exclaim — 

" 'Twas not the sires of such as these. 
That dared the elements and pathless seas — 
That made proud Asian monarchs feel 
• How weak their gold was against Europe's steel ; — 
But BEINGS of another mould — 
Rough, hardy, vigorous, manly, bold." 

In viewing the ascending links of society, there is no great cause 
for gratulation. The youth, of both sexes, doomed to the coun- 
ter, the desk, the nursery, and the school- room, are little elevated, 
in point of salubrity, above their humbler contemporaries ! They 
have higher notions, but not stronger health — more ambition 
to rise, but not better means of exaltation — their passions are 
stronger, but the power of gratifying them is not more extended 
— in fine, the thirst of enjoyment is augmented, while the supply 
is diminished. 

We raise our views still higher along the numerous links and 
classes of society — and what do we behold ? — The professions, 
learned and scientific. It is in the course of the third Sep- 
TENNiAD that the destiny of youth, for these professions, is fixed. 
For the senate — for the pulpit — for the bar — for physic — for 



40 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

various pursuits and avocations — and, in many instances, for no 
pursuits, except the enjoyment of wealth in private life, how many 
thousands of our youths are annually ushered into the academic 
bowers and halls of our universities ? In these, there is nothing 
necessarily or essentially inimical to body or mind ; but the con- 
gregation of multitudes together, and sometimes the studies them- 
selves, do produce a host of evils, moral and physical. 

To Oxford and Cambridge many repair, to learn — little more 
than how to drink Port-wine : — many others to study classics and 
mathematics, for obtaining their degrees — a smaller band to enter 
the arena of competition, and engage in the fierce conflict for 
honours — honours too frequently purchased at the expense of 
health ! How often is the laurel converted into the cypress, to 
wave over the tomb of talent — or over the living wreck of mind 
and body ! How often is the ship foundered, on this her first 
voyage, by carrying a press of sail that strained, bent, and sprung 
those masts, yards, and stays which would have carried the vessel, 
under ordinary circumstances, through the various storms of life ! 
To those who are not well acquainted with the intimate connexion 
between mind and matter, in this state of our existence, the almost 
mechanical influences to which the immaterial principle is subject, 
may appear incredible — and somewhat humiliating. Thus, the 
intellect may be, and every day is, stretched like a ligament or 
muscle, till it snaps, or loses its elasticity and contractility, and, 
for a time at least, becomes incapable of its oninary functions. 
The human mind is exhausted by protracted thinking, in the same 
manner as the human body is exhausted by long-continued labour ; 
but it is not so easily recruited by rest — still less by cordials.* 

The powers of the mind, especially during the third Septenniad 
of life, are still more expansive and elastic than those of the body ; 
and the possessor of talent conceives that there is scarcely any 
limit to the safe exercise of that gift — till he feels the baneful 



* It would, doubtless, be more correct to say that the organ of the mind, 
rather than the mind itself, is thus affected. But I have here made use of 
common parlance, and will explain myself very fully on this point in a more 
advanced stase of the volume. 



OVBR-EXBRTIOK OF THB MIKO. 41 

influence of intellectual exertion on the earthy tabernacle of the 
soul. Even then, he considers (perhaps justly) the exhaustion or 
inability to proceed, as the infirmity of the grosser and more 
perishable companion of the mind, and only waits the recruit of 
body before he again spurs the spirit to fresh exertions ! Is it likely 
that these, almost supernatural efforts can be innocuous ? No 
indeed ! I have so often seen them exemplified, that I cannot too 
urgently warn the student, who strives for academic honours, to 
economise his intellectual powers, with the view of preserving 
them, in the same manner that he would guard his bodily health 
by avoiding intemperance. These observations are not directed 
to the drones, but to the wranglers of our Universities — and 
not to those only who wrangle within the walls of Oxford and 
Cambridge, but to the tens of thousands of wranglers who ex- 
perience the wear and tear of mind throughout society at large ! 

Nature, though often liberal, is seldom lavish of her persona^ 
gifts to mankind — or even to womankind. It is rare to see high 
cultivation of the mind conjoined with rude health and athletic 
strength. They may co-exist — ^because there is no rule without 
its exceptions — but it is in cases where inordinate talent has 
been bestowed ; and, consequently, where great mental acquire- 
ments have been made with little labour. Nature is generally 
a niggard in this respect. Rarely does she permit the highest 
cultivation of the mind, and the most complete development of 
the body, in the same individual. Examples to the contrary 
may exist — I have never seen one. 

Now, as it is in the third Septenniad that Nature labours 
most strenuously to build the arch, preparatory to fixing the 
key-stone of the constitution, is it not reasonable to believe, 
that the great and frequent interruptions which she experiences 
in her work, by the contentions of the spirit, in civilized life, 
must often cause the arch to be imperfect, and the key- stone 
insecure ? In our universities, two channels are open to dis- 
tinction — through classics and mathematics ; or, in other words, 
through the paths of literature and science. The former is most 
ornamental — the latter most useful. The one expands the imagi- 
nation, the other fortifies the judgment. A moderate combination 

E 2 



42 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

of the two would appear to be preferable to a high proficiency ia 
any one of the branches. The universities are of a diflFerent 
opinion. Instead of placing the laurel crown on the head of him 
only who combines the greatest quantum of classical lore with the 
largest amount of mathematical science, they award the prize to 
him who mounts highest on the scale of one branch, to the almost 
total neglect of the other !* Nothing can be more injudicious 
than this plan of stimulating talent and rewarding industry. An 
equal cultivation of the two departments of human acquirements 
would be more beneficial to the individual — more easy of accom- 
plishment — and less injurious to health. Change or variety of 
study is like change or variety of posture, exercise, food, or 
amusement. It is a relief or relaxation, rather than a prolongation 
of the preceding task. Classical literature refreshes the intellect, 
and gives wings to the fancy, after the dry problems and rigorous 
demonstrations of geontetry : — the latter, in turn, corrects the 
wanderings of the imagination among the fairy and fictitious 
scenes of poetry and mythology — brings back our thoughts to the 
sober truths of exact science — and disciplines the mind by the 
exercise of the judgment. I can see no good reason why the 
tentamen, or examination, should not always include both branches 
of knowledge in an equal degree. He has, however, the option 
of " going out" in one or other, according to his fancy .f 

It is in the third Septenniad that some of the passions, 
and many of the propensities, dawn forth, and even take root. 
Previous to that period, when the appetites for food, drink, pas- 

* The circumstance of the " double first," at Oxford and Cambridge, 
can hardly be said to invalidate this position. 

t A week seldom passes in which I do not see illustrations of the havoc 
made in the minds and bodies of wranglers at our universities. The tree of 
knowledge is forced. The flowers and the fruit are called into precocious 
existence. The consequence is that the sap is exhausted, and the branches 
themselves, instead of annual fructification afterwards, present only dwarfish 
fruit, unsightly to the eye, and unsavoury to the taste ! Such is too often 
the final reward of successful, as well as unsuccessful competition for academic 
honours ! The elated youth proudly exhibits his brow encircled with the 
laurel crown. He sleeps, and dreams of literary fame. He awakes and finds 
the laurel converted into a wreath of cypress ! 



THE MASTER-PASSIONS. 43 

times, exercise, and sight-seeings are gratified, the youth falls 
into profound repose, to awake with renovated vigour, for run- 
ning the same round of enjoyments as before. But in the 
THIRD Septenniad, a stranger appears upon the stage — and 
soon assumes the leading character in the dramatis personse — a 
character which he often sustains till the ninth, or even the 
tenth Septenniad. I need hardly say that this passion is love. 
It precedes and over-rules the other master-passions — as ambi- 
tion, avarice, &c. which, at this early period of life, are repre- 
sented by substitutes (emulation and economy), rather than 
actual occupants of the human microcosm. These three grand 
passions — love, ambition, and avarice — are at all times an- 
tagonizing powers. Love is first in the field — and generally the 
first to quit the arena of contention. Ambition is the second 
in action, and the second to relinquish the struggle. Avarice is 
the youngest, that is, the latest-bom, and generally survives the 
other two.* 

It seldom happens that these three dominant passions are 
long co-existent and co-equal. One usually acquires the as- 
cendancy over the others, and reduces them to subjection. It 
not unfrequently happens, indeed, that this one annihilates its 
contemporaries, or holds them in complete abeyance ! There 
is Httle danger, however, of love being in a minority during 
the third, or even the fourth Septenniad. Avarice, the final 
conqueror, is rarely born till after these periods — and ambition 
has little chance with the quiver-bearing deity. Cupid is re- 
presented by the ancients as a winged infant, amusing himself 
with catching butterflies, trundhng a hoop, or playing with a 
nymph. These representations are not inappropriate to the cha- 
racter of LOVE, in the third Septenniad. It is then guileless, 
innocent, ardent, and devoted! Would that it always main- 
tained this character ! But, alas ! like every thing in this world, 
LOVE itself changes with time, and assumes such a different as- 
pect and temperament, that the poets were forced to imagine 

* In courts, the passion of ambition will often antagonize and conquer 
avarice, in the last years of protracted existence. 



44 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

two Cupids — one heaven-bom — the other, the offspring of Nox 
and Erebus— distinguished for riot, debauchery, falsehood, and 
inconstancy ! Instead of the bundle of golden arrows, designed 
to pierce, but not wound the susceptible heart, we too often 
see the sable quiver charged with darts and daggers, dipped in 
poisons more potent than the Upas, and destined to scatter sick- 
ness and sorrow through every ramification of society — poisons, 
both moral and physical, unknown to Greek or Roman, whether 
philosopher, satirist, or physician ; but fearfully calculated to 
taint the springs of Hfe, and involve the innocent and guUty in 
one common ruin ! * An admonition from the experienced phy- 
sician frequently makes a deeper impression on the mind of 
headstrong youth, in this respect, than a sermon from the priest 
(a truth which I have often had occasion to verify) — and, there- 
fore, I shall not deem it irrelevant to strew a moral lesson occa- 
sionally in the path, while descending along the current of human 
life. 

The close of the Third Septenniad is a critical and danger- 
ous period of youth. It is not against " self-love," as the poet 
has it, that the reasoning powers are to be arrayed : — They have 

then — 

" Passion to urge, and Reason to restrain." 

The latter is often a weak antagonist to the former at this early 
period ! From the quivered son of Jupiter they have httle to 
fear ; but oh ! let them beware of that other deity, sprung from 
Nox and Erebus ! 

Woman, designated the weaker sex, " comes of age " while 
man is a minor. In consequence of this earher maturity than in 
the lord of the creation, she does not pass the third Septenniad 
unscathed by the God of Love. She suffers more ills from this 

* Juvenal and Perseus have given us a long black catalogue of the evils 
springing from the " son of Nox and Erebus ;" but a modern censor, ac- 
quainted with the " ills to which flesh is heir," in our own days, from the son 
of Jupiter and Venus, could add a frightful appendix ! I cannot, however, 
designate the particular evil here alluded to, though it will be readily re- 
cognized by all who are acquainted with certain afflictions of humanity. 
— Ath Edition. 



LOVB MODERN FEMALE ACCOMPLISHMENTS. 45 

cause than the world is aware of. The state of civilization at 
which we have arrived produces such a wide range of " hopes 
deferred," and expectations blighted, that their effects are detected 
by the experienced eye at every step, even in the streets. The 
exquisite portrait of erotic sickness, drawn by Shakespeare, is only 
one out of five hundred forms which the malady assumes, under 
the observance of the physician. It was, however, well adapted 
for the descriptive pen of the poet. 



she never told her love, 



But let concealment, like a worm i' th' bud, 

Feed on her damask cheek. She pined in thought, 

And, with a green and yellow melancholy, 

She sate like Patience on a monument, 

Smiling at grief ! 

But Shakespeare knew not a tithe of the numerous links in that 
extensive chain of morbid sympathies and associations, that ex- 
tends from erotomania, down to the most transient emotion of 
female sensibility ! It is unquestionable that the difficulties of 
settling females of the higher classes, in life, multiply every year 
— in other words, the checks to matrimony become more nume- 
rous, and the doom to celibacy more widely spread. This may 
or may not be an evil in itself ; but it assiu-edly is the source 
of many evils. ITie modem maxim, as respects females, is — 
" get married well, if you can — ^but get married." The prize 
being matrimony, and the competition constantly augmenting 
in intensity, the means must be adapted to the end. These 
are light, shewy and attractive accomplishments, among which 
music, dancing, drawing, and decorating, are the most essential. 
They are the nets, spread out to entangle lovers and catch hus- 
bands — where a hook cannot be baited with a heavy purse. The 
marriage state, and the state of celibacy (one or other of which 
must be the lot of every female), are left unprovided for by this 
system of education or training! In matrimony, the attrac- 
tions above-mentioned, having obtained their object, are little 
calculated to support the new character of vrife or mother, or 
aid the new duties that devolve on the change of condition : — 
hence a prolific source of unhappy contracts in wedlock ! In 



46 ECONOMY OP HEALTH. 

celibacy, on the other hand, the superficial acquirements, having 
failed in their object, become useless, or indeed extinct, after 
a certain — or we wiU admit, an uncertain period ; and the female 
is left a double prey — to the tortures of disappointment, and 
the moth of ennui — without internal resource, or external sym- 
pathy ! Let parents ponder on these obsei-vations, and ask them- 
selves whether or not they are true. The female youth are 
absolved from blame. They have neither the choice nor the 
direction of their studies. They are doomed as rigorously, and 
almost as many hours daily, to the piano-forte, as the galley-slave 
is to the oar ! A slight analysis of this tedious apprenticeship, 
in which half the circle of science might be learnt, may not be a 
useless procedure. 

During several hoiirs of the day, and many years of life, the 
female mind is employed in deciphering series after series of 
hieroglyphics, ranged in horizontal columns, and resembling a 
mimic procession of little black, dancing sprites or gnomes, 
with large heads, long legs, and no bodies. They are types or 
symbols of sound Eind motion, conveying no intellectual idea. 
This science addresses itself solely to the senses. It leaves no 
knowledge of good or evil behind — and no impression on the 
sensorium, but the natural effects of pleasurable or doleful sen- 
sations. The stimulus of music is of a very subtle and diffusible 
nature, and the excitement which it produces in the nervous 
system is of a peculiar character, by no means generally under- 
stood. That it is a potent agent, is evident, from the excita- 
tion which it induces in man the most uncivilized, and even in 
animals the most savage. No one would think of referring to 
poets for facts in physiology ; but w:here the feelings and pas- 
sions of mankind are in question, they often afford the most apt 
illustrations. Shakespeare, MUton, Dryden, and Pope, furnish 
innumerable examples. The astonishing influence of music on 
animals, and (as was supposed) on even inanimate nature, ena- 
bled the ancient poets to construct fables and fictitious events : 
— for instance, the descent of Orpheus to the infernal regions, 
and the release of Eurydice from the grasp of Pluto, by means 
of music. In Alexander's feast (though a fiction), Dryden has 



PHYSICAL AND MORAL EyPECTS OF MUSIC IN EXCESS. 47 

illustrated the powers of music. If varied strains could agitate 
the breast of a soldier and a hero, with sentiments of love, 
glory, ambition, sorrow, &c. is it luireasonable to suppose that 
the same agent is capable of exercising a powerful influence over 
the sensitive soul of a young female } It is not xmreasonable — 
it is a fact. Nothing is more certain than that any organ or 
sense that is much exercised, will become, for a time, propor- 
tionally augmented in sensibility — it will become, as the French 
would say, more " impressionable." The seaman's eye, accus- 
tomed to the telescope, will perceive objects at a greater distance 
than the landsman's. The musician's ear becomes acutely sen- 
sitive to sounds — delighted with harmony, and horrified by dis- 
cord. The palate of the gourmand will distinguish dishes and 
wines which the plain eater could not discriminate. The " tea- 
taster " at Canton, sets the Hong merchant's arts of adulterat- 
ing the plant at defiance. The blind man's sense of touch 
becomes pre-eminently acute — not by a transference of power 
(as is absurdly supposed) from the eye to the finger ; but by 
greater exercise of the nerves of touch, and minuter attention 
to the impressions received through that channel. The muscles 
become stronger by daily exertion, as is seen in the arm of the 
blacksmith and legs of the porter. The olfactory nerves ac- 
quire immense acuteness by the habit of smelling different 
substances, and estimating them by their odour. In short, the 
rule is almost without exceptions. But is there no reverse to 
the medal ? Every organ or sense, thus inordinately exercised 
and improved, becomes, sooner than usual, impaired in its own 
function, or it deranges the functions of other organs, senses — 
or perhaps the whole constitution. This is the lot of humanity. 
There is no good without alloy — no near cut to perfection, 
without its attendant tax or drawback. Thus we frequently 
find the signal oflScer of a fleet, with diminished or lost vision 
of the right eye, from overstraining it by the telescope — or 
affected with head-aches and other symptoms from the same 
cause.* The tea-taster of Canton soon becomes dyspeptic, 

* It is not a little curious that, if we fix the eye on any one particular 
part of an object, say a feature in a painting — and keep it so fixed, for a 



48 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

sallow, and superannuated. The fate of the gourmand and 
bacchanal is well known. In short, examples of this kind 
might be adduced without end. And can the devotee of music 
expect to escape unhurt ? Musicians, generally speaking, are 
melancholic. Excited themselves, and exciting others, their 
nerves Eire ultimately unstrung by perpetual vibration ; and the 
natural, the inevitable consequence is, depression of spirits, often 
approaching to hypochondriacism. If such be the fact, (and 
it is unquestionable,) what must be the case of the young fe- 
male, whose sensitive nerves, susceptible feelings, exquisite sym- 
pathies, tender affections, and delicate organization, are excited, 
stimvdated, electrified, almost constantly by music for several 
years in succession ? The results are read by the observant 
physician in the countenance, the complexion, the gait — the 
whole physical and moral constitution of the female — results 
which require a new vocabulary, and would be totally unintelU- 
gible by Celsus, or even by Sydenham, could they rise from their 
graves, to survey the progress and effects of civilization ! 

These, however, are not the legitimate consequences of music ; 
but of the abuse of music. This " concord of sweet sounds," 
if used in moderation, would be one of the blessings of human 
life, and was, no doubt, designed as such, by the all- wise Creator. 
So was food, wine, every gratification of the palate, bodily and 
mental. But one enjoyment or luxury was never designed to 
usurp the place of several others. Who would think of living 
entirely on honey and champagne ? She who spends four or 
five hours daily in the study and practice of music, acts with 
equal impropriety. The extra time thus spent is injuriously 
abstracted from other improvements and exercises of mind and 
body. The time absorbed at the piano leaves not sufficient space 
for the acquirement of that " useful knowledge" which strength- 
ens the mind against the vicissitudes of fortune, and the moral 

certain time, the contemplated point gradually becomes obscured, and is ul- 
timately invisible, though surrounding objects may be still depicted in the 
eye. This is caused by an exhaustion of the visual powers of the retina, at 
the point so strained, and is relieved by directing the eye to other objects, 
till the excitability is recruited. 



Mrsic. 49 

crosses to which female life is doomed — nor for healthful exercise 
of the body, by which the material fabric may be fortified against 
the thousand causes of disease continually assailing it. I would 
therefore recommend that one half of the time devoted to music, 
should be allotted to bodily exercise, and to the acquisition of 
useful and ornamental knowledge, embracing history, natural and 
moral philosophy, geography, astronomy — and, in short, many of 
the sciences which man has monopolized to himself, but for which 
woman is as fit as " the lord of the creation."* 

Woman comes earlier to maturity, by two years at least, than 
man. The tree of life blossoms and bears fruit sooner in the 
one sex than in the other — it also sooner withers and sheds its 
leaves — but does not sooner die. Female life, at any period, 
caeteris paribus, is fully as good — perhaps a little better, in respect 
to probable duration, than that of the male. In this point of 
view, woman has a longer senectitude than man. More men are 
annually bom than women — and, consequently, more must die. 
It is in the course of the third Septenniad, that the seeds of female 
diseeises are chiefly sown — or, at least, that the soil is specially 
prepared for their reception and growth. The predisposition to 
infirmities and disorders, of various kinds, is effected by acts of 
OMISSION and commission. In th^ first class, need I mention 
the deficiency of healthy exercise of the body, in the open air ; 
and of intellectual exercise in judicious studies ? We are told 
by mothers that, in towns and cities, it is impossible for yoimg 
females to take bodUy exercise. Where there is the will, there 
will generally be found the means. Even within the precincts 
of home, the hoop and the skip-rope might usefully supersede 
the harp and guitar, for one hour in the day. In schools 
and seminaries, there is no excuse — and indeed in many of 
them, this salutary point of hygiene is well attended to. 
Gymnastic exercises have been hastily thrown aside — partly, 

• These strictures on the abuse of music are not meant to reflect on the 
mother or the daughter, but on the mania of the times in which we live. 
The accomplishment of music is patent to all — the evils and disorders re- 
sulting from the excessive study and practice are known only to a few besides 
the actual sufferers ! — 4th Edition. 

T 



50 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

because some enthusiasts carried them to excess — partly be- 
cause they were supposed to be inimical to the effeminacy of 
shape and feature, so much prized by parent and progeny — but 
chiefly, I suspect, from that languor and disinclination to exertion, 
which characterize the higher and even the middle classes of 
female youth. This deficiency of exercise in the open air may 
be considered as the parent of one-half of female disorders, by 
multiplying and augmenting the susceptibilities to all external 
impressions. The pallid complexions, the languid movements, 
the torpid secretions, the flaccid muscles, and disordered functions, 
(including glandular swellings,) and consumption itself, attest the 
truth of this assertion ! 

Insufficient exercise is greatly aided by scantiness of cloathing. 
Among the poor, this evil is a misfortune, rather than a fault — 
among the rich, it is a fault, rather than a misfort\me. The deli- 
cate female, trained like a hot-house plant, and who has lived in a 
band-box or a boudoir during the rest of the week, issues forth 
to the ball-room, the opera, or the theatre, in a gossamer dress 
that might suit the skies of the Sandwich Isles or Bengal, but 
not the humid atmosphere of Winter and Spring in England. 
The consequences are serious ; but the manner in which they are 
brought about, is far from being generally understood. It is not 
by the mantle, the furs, and the close carriage, that the injurious 
effects of light cloathing — or rather no cloathing, are to be ob- 
viated. A little inquiry into this subject will be found of the 
greatest interest— -especially as it bears on acts of commission 
as well as of omission — on tight cloathing as well as on Hght 
cloathing. 

It is hardly necessary to state that the vital function of res- 
piration can only be carried on by the alternate expansion and 
compression of the lungs. This apparatus cannot be filled with 
atmospheric air, except by the elevation of the ribs, or the descent 
of the diaphragm. In health, and in a state of nature, both 
these mechanical processes are employed, and then the individual 
derives all the advantages which free breathing can impart to the 
whole economy of the constitution. In certain diseases, respi- 
ration can only be performed by one of these processes — but then 



TIOHT-LACIKO — MALE AND FEMALE. 51 

it is carried on imperfectly and laboriously. Thus when ribs are 
fractured, the chest must be secured from motion by bandages, 
and breathing is performed by the descent and ascent of the 
diaphragm. But how is it when both these mechanical pro- 
cesses are crippled at the same time ? Thus, in fashionable 
female attire (and often in male attire also) the abdomen is so 
compressed by the stays, that the diaphragm can only descend in 
the sUghtest degree — if at all — while the whole of the middle and 
lower part of the chest is so firmly girt by the same cincture, that 
the ribs there are kept motionless ! The vital function of respi- 
ration, then, is carried on by violent, though inefficient efforts of 
the diaphragm to descend, and by an excessive action of the 
muscles, and extraordinary elevation of the ribs in the upper part 
of the chest, where it is free from the pressure of the stays. Now 
in this state of things, three distinct injuries are sustained, or 
injurious operations carried on. First, the too great pressure of 
the diaphragm on the stomach and upper bowels, by its violent 
efforts to descend : — secondly, the inaction of the lower lobes of 
the lungs, from want of space for expansion — and thirdly, the 
inordinate dilatation of the upper portions of the lungs, where the 
ribs are free, in order to compensate for the compressed state of 
the lower portions. All these injurious effects are greatly in- 
creased by muscular exertion — as by dancing, singing, &c., when 
the circulation is hurried, yet impeded ; and where demands are 
made on respiration, which the lungs are incapable of supplying. 
It is at those times, that we see the upper part of the chest heaving, 
with almost convulsive tluroes, and the countenance flushed by 
the impediments thrown in the way of the blood's return to the 
heart. 

It is not a Httle remarkable that, in nine-tenths of those who 
die of consumption in this country, (a disease that produces 
nearly a fourth of the whole mortality,) we find the upper lobes 
of the lungs, corresponding with those parts of the chest that are 
most exposed to the atmosphere, least compressed by cloathing, 
and more than usually strained in breathing, are the seat of ex- 
cavations, commonly termed ulcerations, while the lower lobes of 
the lungs are generally found to be more or less consolidated. 



52 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

and comparatively impervious to air. This state of things is too 
remarkable, and too uniform, to be the effect of chance ; and 
therefore we are authorized to conclude that it is, partly at least, 
owing to the exposure of the upper parts of the chest to atmos- 
pheric transitions, with slight covering, both in males and females, 
while the upper lobes of the lungs are violently strained, and the 
air-cells torn during inordinate exertion. The consolidated con- 
dition of the inferior lobes of the organ of respiration corresponds 
in a most singular manner, with the constrained position and im- 
peded function of these parts during life, from the causes which 
I have already described. 

Let it be remembered that the tight-lacing of the lower part 
of the chest, and the thin cloathing of the upper part, are not 
confined to sex, to age, nor to class of society ; but extend, more 
or less, to all, though more, certainly, to females than to males — 
and to the higher than to the lower orders of the community. A 
long, an attentive, and a mature consideration of this subject, has 
led me to draw the conclusion which is sufficiently obvious in the 
foregoing statement, and which I leave to others for confirmation 
or rejection. 

These are not the only evils resulting from the unnatural 
constriction of the middle of the body by tight-lacing — male 
and female.* The stomach and bowels are so compressed, that 
it is wonderful how they are able to perform their important 
functions at all ! But although the resources of Nature are 
almost inexhaustible in overcoming obstacles, yet, the injurious 
effects of the habit edluded to, are numerous and potent enough 
to swell, very materially, the long catalogue of nervous and dys- 
peptic complaints. The growth of the whole body and the free- 
dom of all its functions so much depend on perfect digestion 

* Let any one look around him in the streets, the theatres, the ball-rooms, 
&c. and he will be compelled to acknowledge that the beaux are nearly as 
tightly girt as the belles. The mania pervades the dandy creation from the 
Neva to the Hellespont. The Hun and the Croat have their upper regions 
more nearly severed from their Netherlands, than even the Gaul and the 
Italian ! John Bull has caught the frenzy, though his well-stuffed paunch 
makes a desperate resistance to the girdlo-mania of the continental fop. 



TIOHT-LACINO — MALE AND FEMALE. 53 

of our fcxjd, and conversion of our nutriment into healthy blood, 
that any impediment to that digestion and that assimilation, 
must inevitably derange the whole constitution. Although the 
evil of tight-lacing is as patent as the sun at noon-day in an 
ItaUan sky, yet I have never known its commission to be ac- 
knowledged by any fair dame or exquisite dandy. It seems to 
be considered essential to the existence, or rather to the produc- 
tion of a fine figure ; and yet I never could discover any marks 
of stays in the statues of the Medicean Venus or the Belvidere 
Apollo. Whether the modem girdle possesses any of the 
attractive and fascinating qualities attributed to the Cestus of 
Venus, I am not prepared to say ; but I venture to aver that the 
Cyprian goddess was not in the habit of drawing her zone so 
tight as the modem fair ones, else the sculptor would have re- 
corded the cincture in Parian marble. We have every reason, 
indeed, to believe that the waist of Venus was left as free from 
compression as her feet — and I need not point out the contrast 
between these extreme features in the statues of the ancient 
belles and those of our own days ! We seem more inclined to 
wear the Chinese shoe than the Grecian sandal. We have no 
right to dispute about tastes ; but I may venture to assert that 
the comfort and motions of the foot are not more abridged and 
cramped by the Chinese shoe, than are the functions of respiration 
and digestion by the tight stays.* 

There is one other evil, of commission, that I must advert to 
before closing this section — the commission of matrimony. I 
fear that many of my fair young readers may think I have placed 
this evil under the wrong head, and that it ought to be con- 
sidered as one of omission, rather than commission. I am un- 
able, in an essay of this kind, to state my reasons for postponing 
matrimony till the completion of the third Septenniad in the 
female, and of the fourth Septenniad in the male sex. Yet both 
sexes may safely take it for granted that I have good reasons for 
advancing this dogma — deduced from long experience and exten- 

* See the ingenious work of Mr. Coulson on " Deformities of the Cheat," 
and the extracts from it in the Appendix to this edition. — 4tk Ed. 

r2 



54 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

sive observation. To the male youth of modern times the admo- 
nition is hardly necessary, since they are growing amazingly 
prudent and cautious in taking this important step. They seem 
to have derived immense advantage from the sage advice given to 
young Phaeton by his father — 

" Parce puer stimulis, et fortiter utere loris." 

In all matrimonial affairs, they require the spur rather than the 
rein, and therefore I may take leave of them for the present, as 
they are not likely to violate the precept I have laid down. 

Not so the young ladies — or rather their mothers. But I 
shall only oflFer to them one dissuasive argument against too 
early matrimony. It is this : — that, for every month spent in 
the marriage state, during the third Septbnniad, a year will be 
deducted from the usual duration of their beauty and personal 
attractions. 



TIME. 



FOURTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[21 to 28 years.'] 

Time advances with steady and equal pace, neither quickening 
his steps at the ardent solicitation of youth, nor retarding his 
course at the unheeded prayer of age ! He is represented — but 
improperly — with a scythe, mowing down all things — " omnia 
metit TEMPus " — from the cloud-capt pyramid, whose head is 
slirouded in the darkness of antiquity, to the most ephemersJ 
flower or fly, basking for a day, in the sunshine of its momentary 
existence. This powerful being — (far less imaginary than the 
Jupiter of the Heathens) — is falsely represented, as entirely 
destructive; whereas he is more than half conservative. He 
ought to be portrayed as a skeleton on one side, with the scythe 
in his left hand — while the opposite side is cloathed in flesh and 
blood, exhibiting all the characteristics of youth and maturity — 
his right hand holding a cornucopia overflowing with seeds, 
flowers, and fruits, the symbols of perpetual reproduction, and 
unlimited fertility. Time should rest on a winged globe, the 
emblem of eternal revolution and motion, while typical of that 
which has neither beginning nor end. From his right hand he 
is profusely scattering the principles and materials of regenera- 
tion and hfe : — with his left hand, he is scathing, consuming, 
and obliterating every thing which he had previously called into 
existence, at the command of his superior ! But between the 
cornucopia and the scythe — between the right hand and the left, 
of this mysterious agent, there exists a fair and ample field, for 
ever flourishing in perennial vigour. The afilux of supply and 
the efflux of waste, are imperceptible to the eye. Parts are con- 
stantly added, and parts are constantly subtracted ; but the 
whole remains a whole. The body of Nature is ever changing, 
but never changed. And, as to the human race, though the 
individual dies the species remains immortal. The individual 
constitution exhibits, for a time, this remarkable condition. 



56 BCONOMY OF HEALTH. 

During many years — say from the age of 30 to that of 40 — 
every particle that is taken from the material fabric, is simul- 
taneously replaced by another particle of new matter, and thus 
the living machine is secured from the effects of wear and tear — 
till the adjusting balance is deranged, and the supply becomes 
inadequate to the waste. 

Time does not roll over the physical or material world, with- 
out leaving his impress on the metaphysical or intellectual. 
The track of his wheels is left in a medium much rarer than the 
air we breathe — in the thoughts and imaginings of the human 
mind ! Proteus never presented himself in half so many forms 
as Time does to different individuals — and even to the same 
individual under different circumstances. To the galley-slave, 
the tenant of the prison, the absent lover, the victim of incu- 
rable tortures — and to the countless thousands, whose daily lot 
is reiterated misery, how slowly does Time appear to creep, 
and how unwelcome is his presence ? To him, whose hours are 
numbered, whether by the fiat of Nature or the offended laws 
of his country, how rapidly do the fleeting moments pass ! To 
the stranded mariner suspended over the raging wave by a slen- 
der rope and exhausted muscles, while the life-boat is struggling 
through the breakers to his aid, how precious is each mo- 
ment ! For one half hour he would exchange the gems of Gol- 
conda ! To the victim of ennui, without object or pursuit, how 
lag the hours — how slow the progress of the stm through the 
firmament! To the lawyer, the physician, the merchant — to 
all whose time is their fortune — how quickly does the hand 
move round the dial — how short is the longest Summer's sun ! 
The stream of Time, in its approach towards us, always seems 
languid — when past, it appears like a dream, so rapid has been its 
flight. In exact proportion as age increases, Time seems to glide 
faster over our heads. 

Time is occupied not merely in the renovation and destruc- 
tion of all organised beings and things — but also in changing 
things which are incapable of destruction or reproduction. The 
primeval granite, under the unfathomed snows of Mont Blanc, 
is undergoing changes — imperceptible and unknovm — but not 



PHASES OF LIFE. 57 

the less real on that account. As the darkest and deepest re- 
cesses of the earth, into which man has penetrated, shew that 
changes have taken place ; so, no man, in his senses, will main- 
tain that other changes shall not succeed. But, notwithstanding 
all these reproductions and changes, the same thing is never re- 
instated in existence, at least in the globe we inhabit. The same 
human being never re-appears on the stage of life — personal 
identity once destroyed is for ever lost — the same tree never 
springs up a second time in the forest — the same wave never beats 
a second time on the sandy shore — the same insect never revives, 
after dissolution — not even the same drop of water ever falls a 
second time in the shower, though its elements may run the same 
round of changes, from water to vapour, and from vapour to rain, 
for a million of years. 

Man, then, the highest grade on the scale of created beings, 
is subject to the same law that governs the eagle over his head, 
and the worm — nay the dust, beneath his feet. He cannot, 
therefore, with justice, complain, even if this were his final lot. 
He has capacities for enjoyment and pleasure, beyond those of 
every other organized being, whether of the vegetable or ani- 
mal world — and if his intellectual endowments and passions lead 
him into pains and penalties of mind and body, from which 
his inferiors are free, still he cannot reasonably complain of in- 
justice. He has no right to claim a majority of the good, and 
a minority of the evils allotted to created beings in this sublvmarv 
state. These reflections on Time may appear digressive ; but 
they are not unnatural, for we are now approaching certain epochs 
of life, when reflection will intrude itself on the mind of man, in 
spite of the turmoil of passions and excitements by which he is 
surrounded. 

To the slave imprisoned in the dark Peruvian mine — to the 
shipwrecked mariner on the desolate isle, eyeing, from day to day, 
the boundless horizon, in search of a friendly sail — the wheels of 
Time do not appear to revolve more slowly than they do to the 
MINOR approaching his majority at the close of the third Sep- 
tenniad. The happy mom at last arrives that stamps the minor 
a man — that liberates him from the control of parent or guardian 



58 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

— that makes him his own master — too often the slave of his own 
passions, or the victim of his designing sycophants ! On this, as 
upon many other eventful periods of our lives, the greatest ap- 
parent GOOD frequently turns out to be the greatest evil — and 
that which seems, at the moment, to be a dire misfortune, not 
seldom eventuates in a most fortunate dispensation.* 

But although human laws, at least in this country, convert the 
minor into the man, at the age of 21 years, the corporeal frame 
does not arrive at maturity — at its full development — till several 
years afterwards — viz. till the middle or rather the end of the 
fourth Septeimiad — ^while the intellectual faculties require a still 
longer period for their acm6 of vigour. Up to this period (24 to 
28 years) Nature herself conducts and superintends the growth 
and successive evolutions of the corporeal fabric, its functions, 
and its powers. No human art or circumstance can materially 
retard or accelerate the progressive steps by which the body 
attains its ultimatum of development. Various deleterious agents 
may destroy life, and thus prevent maturity from being gained at 
all ; but, if the individual live to the age of 24 or 25 years, he 
wiU have acquired aU or almost all the corporeal perfection of 
which he is susceptible. Up to this point, the supply is greater 
than the waste, and increase of strength, if not of stature, is the 

* A long and chequered life has furnished me with very many illustrations 
of this position. I shall only glance at one. After a most dangerous illness 
in His Majesty's Service, I was invalided at Madras, and procured a passage 
in a line-of-battle ship for England. After my goods and chattels were on 
board, the ship was suddenly ordered to sea, while I was making a little 
excursion from the Presidency. I got back to Madras, just in time to see the 
vessel sail from the roads, while two of my brother officers, more prudent than 
myself, had wisely (in all human prudence) taken up their berths on board, 
and were now on their voyage to Europe ; while I was left destitute on a 
foreign shore, in sickness and in poverty ! After surmounting various diffi- 
culties, and repining for months on my misfortunes, I at length reached my 
native soil. The line-of-b\ttle ship foundered at sea, and not a human 
being of the crew or passengers survived to tell the tale ! From that day till 
this (now nearly forty years ago) , I have always hailed an apparent misfor- 
tune as the harbinger, if not the actual agent, of some providential benefit or 
escape. 



SOURCES OF PLBASURB. 59 

result. In the middle of the fourth Septenniad, the balance is 
nearly equipoised — and Nature only lends her aid to sustain the 
equilibrium, for very many years afterwards. But it is in the 
power of man himself, to abridge or extend this period of equili- 
brium, in a most extraordinary degree. The period of this adjusted 
balance (say firom 28 to 42) is not so very strictly limited as the 
period between birth and maturity. At the age of 42, the summit 
of the arch of life is gained — and thence it gradually descends. 
But this key-stone of the arch is not so fixed, as the key-stone of 
growth, at the age of 24 years. By intemperance, by misfortime, 
by hereditary or accidental diseases, the individual passes his 
meridian at 35, or even sooner, instead of reaching the meridian 
of 42. Nature, too, who is always indulgent to those who obey 
her dictates, will sometimes, though rarely, protract this middle 
period to 50 years ; but it is in the succeeding period of declension 
from the meridian, that the greatest latitude or variety is 
observable. After the completion of the seventh Septenniad — 49 
years — indulgent Nature gives a comparatively unlimited scope to 
the powers of life — at least till the end of the twelfth Septenniad 
— 84 — when it seems that, except on very extraordinary occasions, 
she determines that those who have arrived at that advanced age 
shall have only a probability (to use the language of the Insurance 
Offices) of three years and a half of — decrepitude ! This may 
be considered as a slight anticipation of the subject ; but it is no 
more than a mere glimpse of the vista in perspective. 

At the beginning of the fourth Septenniad, the female is as 
much matured in constitution, as the male is at the middle of the 
same epoch — but neither the one, at 21, nor the other at 24 years, 
is at the acm6 of strength and firmness of organization. The 
human frame will have acquired its ultimate healthy dimensions, 
but not its solidity and full power of bearing labour and fatigue, 
till the age of 24 in the one sex, and 28 or 30 in the other. 

The FOURTH Septenniad then, is, perhaps, the most critical 
and dangerous, for both sexes, in the whole series — as far as health 
and happiness are concerned. The health of the male sex is 
most perilled — the happiness of the female — if indeed it be 
possible that one of these conditions can be damaged without the 



60 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

participation of the other ! The connexion between health and 
pleasure demands a few remarks at this particular period of life, 
when the latter is too often sought at the expence of its chief 
source, the former. 

The structure of the human frame displays such infinite wisdom, 
that we may safely infer equal benevolence and skill in the divine 
Architect. An investigation of the functions of the living machine 
will convert this inference into a demonstration. There can be little 
doubt that, as man was first turned out of the hands of his Creator, 
the whole fabric was calculated to maintain health and experience 
happiness unalloyed. Even in his present fallen and degraded 
condition, and during the ordinary health enjoyed imder ordinary 
circumstances, the exercise of every function, in the body 
(numerous and complicated as these functions are), contributes 
its quota of pleasure to the sum total of happiness. It may 
reasonably be asked how this can be, seeing that all the great 
vital functions that sustain our existence, are carried on, not only 
without our knowledge, but without our consent ? Thus the 
heart circulates the blood, and the lungs oxigenate it, without our 
consciousness of these important operations. The stomach digests 
our food, unknown and unfelt by us. The liver secretes bile : — 
In short, the whole of what are termed the organic or automatic 
functions, the essential and immediate props of life, are conducted 
without our privity or assent. Yet, by a wonderful species of 
inter-communication (the great sympathetic nerve), the two sys- 
tems of life — the organic and the animal — the involuntary and 
the voluntary — the vegetable and the spiritual — touch without 
mingling, and sympathize without surrendering their inde- 
pendence ! 

The natural and quiet exercise of these vital but involuntary 
functions amounts to a sum total which cannot be expressed by 
numbers, nor defined by words. It is the feeling of health and 
SPIRITS^— a feeling which, like its source, is independent of the 
exercise of the animal and intellectual functions. It may exist 
independently of sensation, motion, perception, or reflection ; yet 
gives acuteness to the first, activity to the second, clearness to 
the third, and soundness to the fourth of these operations. The 



ACME OF GROWTH. 61 

truth of these positions is too often, and too painfully proved by 
the converse. When the functions of organic life (circulation, 
digestion, secretion, &c.) deviate, by any cause, from their natural, 
and consequently their healthful state, although there may be no 
external indication, or local recognition of such deviation, there 
will yet be some general or inexplicable feeling of discomfort, dis- 
traction, distress, or discontent, varying in degree or intensity, 
from the slightest malaise up to the most poignant feelings of 
misery, leading to insanity or suicide ! 

But the sources of pleasure and of suffering are not limited to 
the functions of the organic or vegetable life. They are far more 
apparent, tangible, and exquisite in the exercise of the animal 
or intellectual fimctions. Sensation, through the medium of 
the five senses (seeing, feeling, hearing, tasting, and smelling), 
brings with it a host of pleasures or pains. If man had been 
bom with only the single sense of sight, through the medium of 
which he surveys, with delight, the myriads of objects, from the 
starry firmament, down to the miraculous revelations of the mi- 
croscope, he would have just cause for gratitude to his Creator. 
But when we examine the other senses, and the various channels 
through which pleasure flows upon the moral and physical man, 
we must acknowledge the infinite beneficence as well as omnis- 
cience of God. The capacity for enjoyment increases regularly 
as one system of organs rises over another. It is lowest in the 
organic life, or those organs whose functions are not imder our 
win — it is greatly extended in the animal Life, or life of relation 
with the world around us, including all the senses — but it is 
highest of all, because it is nearly boundless, in the intellectual 
system — that system which, though connected with matter, and 
influenced by the lowest of the corporeal functions, yet springs 
far beyond the limits of the visible world, and revels in the 
boundless domain of reflection. 

When we thus contemplate structure built on structure — func- 
tion superadded to function — and system raised over system, 
from the meanest organ that amalgamates man with his mother 
earth, up to the most etherial operation of the mind, which seems 
to link him with beings of angeUc nature — when we reflect on 

o 



62 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

the wonderful skill with which the whole material fabric is con- 
structed, and the astonishing powers with which it is endued 
for repairing accidental damages and counteracting the wear and 
tear of time, we are not unnaturally led to the conjecture, that 
MAN was designed for immortality, when first turned out of his 
Creator's hands.* But a farther investigation, and melancholy 
experience soon teach us, either that the design of immortality 
was abandoned by the divine Architect, or that some mysterious 
and fatal revolution took place in the destiny, as well as in the 
constitution of mankind. 

Whether this doom of death was consequent on the fall of 
man — was literally or allegorically portrayed in Genesis; — or 
whether the seeds of decay were sown with the first rudiments 
of his creation may for ever remain a matter of dispute or con- 
jecture — not so the wisdom and justice of the decree. Immor- 
tality — or even a considerable prolongation of man's existence 
in this world, would now be the greatest curse that his Creator 
could inflict on him. It would be incompatible not only with the 
happiness of the individual, but with that of the whole species. 
Even in the brief space of man's career on this globe, the appe- 
tite for pleasiure begins to be sated, before the ordinary seeison 
of enjoyment is passed ; and were his years tripled or quadru- 
pled, this earth would fail to afford novelty-^and sameness of 
scene would sicken every sense ! If a millennium should ever 
obtain in this world, there must first be a new creation of beings, 
and that of a nature by us totally inconceivable. 



I have already observed, that about the middle of the fourth 
Septenniad (24 or 25) man ariives at the limit of physical deve-. 
lopment ; — but it is rather the acme of dimensions than of density 
— of structure rather than of strength. During the latter years 
of growth, especially if it be rapid, Nature appears to be, in some 
degree, exhausted by the effort of completing the fabric, and re- 
quires a temporary economy rather than a profuse expenditure of 

* This passage is condemned by one of my critics ; but I am still of opi- 
nion that the coi\jecture is not unnatural. — ith Ed. 



MIXED EXERCISE. 63 

her powers. The human tabernacle, like other tenements of clay, 
is much better for a few years of seasoning and settlement after 
the building is completed. The tall and full-grown pine is too 
soft and succulent to be formed, at once, into the giddy mast, and 
bend elastic to the sweeping gale. 

A stock of temperance and exercise laid in at this period will 
return fifty per cent, more of profit in the course of life, than if 
attempted at any other epoch subsequently. Temperance not 
only conduces directly to the consolidation of the constitutional 
edifice just completed; but proves one of the best bulwarks 
against some of the most fatal rocks on which health and happi- 
ness are often wrecked in riper years. Circe could not trans- 
form the associates of Ulysses into swine, till they had quaffed 
the intoxicating draught— but the fatal goblet was no sooner 
drained than — 

" Instant her circling wand the goddess wav'd, 
To hogs transform'd them, and the stye receiv'd ; 
No more was seen the human face divine." 

Exercise, at this period, not only co-operates with tempe- 
rance in the invigoration of the body, but powerfully controls 
those eflfervescences of temperament, and tides of exuberant 
energy that so often burst their proper boundaries, and hurl the 
youth impetuously along, in — 

" Pleasure's path, or Passion's wild career." 

When the poet apostrophized the good fortune of those who 
crown a " youth of labour " with an " age of ease," it is clear 
that, by the term labour, he meant industry — and by ease, in- 
dependence. But the literal acceptation of these significant 
words is even more applicable than the metaphorical. Exercise, 
in the early years of life, is more certainly followed by freedom 
from pain in the advanced epochs of existence, than economy is 
followed by competence — or, in the words of the poet, — labour 
by ease. If the youth could see, as the physician daily sees, the 
exorbitant usury which habitual indulgence in pleasure and 
sloth, pays in the sequel — and that too, not in money, which 
is dross, but in bodily and mental suiFering (the only penalty that 



64 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

will be accepted), he would shudder at the prospect — dash the 
cup from his lip — and tug at the oar of industry, Uke the meanest 
peasant. 

It is in the fourth Septenniad, that the more athletic or gym- 
nastic exercises should be practised, as less likely to strain or 
injure the fabric, now on the confines of its utmost degree of 
consolidation. The affluent have no excuse for idleness, but the 
want of will to be active. The professional, mercantile, and even 
the mechanical classes have a more plausible excuse — the want of 
TIME. But there is always a way when there is a will ; and this 
WILL would be more frequently exerted, if the consequences 
could be foreseen. A short illustration drawn from fact, and not 
from fancy, may not be misplaced here. There was a time when 
a gentleman walked — ^because he could not afford to ride — and 
then he was seldom ailing. A period came when he kept his 
carriage — because he could not afford to walk — and then he was 
seldom well. He hit on a remedy, that combined the economy 
of TIME with the preservation of health. Instead of jumping into 
the carriage, on leaving a house, he started off at a quick pace, 
that kept the horses on a trot after him. When well warmed 
with walking, a little fatigued, or straitened for time, he sprang 
into the carriage, closed three of the windows, and read, tiU he 
arrived at the next rendezvous, after which, the same process of 
alternate pedestrian and passive exercise was reiterated. Now this 
is a combination of the two kinds of exercise which I had proved 
by experiment, many years previously, to be extremely salutary.* 
It is one which the rich can command without sacrifice — even of 
dignity ; — and which many others might employ with very little 
sacrifice of that valuable commodity — time, — and with great 
advantage in respect to health. I am well aware that there is a 
very large class embarked in trade, commerce, Uterature, science, 
and the professions who may say, and truly, that such a plan is 
impracticable. It may be so ; but ingenuity may suggest other 
plans, adapted to the peculiar circumstances of each individual. 

* In 1823, during a tour on the Continent, and in many subsequent 
excursions. — See " Change of Air," 4th Edition. 



MATRIMONY. 6'5 

In how many hundreds — I might say thousands, of instances have 
I heard it urged, that intervals of relaxation from business, or 
periods of salutary exercise in the open air, are totally precluded 
by the nature of the avocation. It cannot be doubted that great 
numbers of both sexes are unfortunately placed in this predica- 
ment ; and have only the alternative of injured health or ruined 
circumstances. Bad as is the latter, the former is worse. But a 
great majority of individuals have the means of procuring some 
portion of exercise, if they would but exert their ingenuity. The 
example which I have quoted can only be adopted by those who 
are circumstanced similarly to the author, but it may serve as a 
stimulus to invention in other cases. 

The fourth Septenniad is not perhaps the most usual period 
for repressing the passion of ambition or avarice, and encouraging 
exercise of body and relaxation of mind. The love of pleasure 
has not yet experienced the slightest check from rivals that are, 
on a future- day, to overwhelm and annihilate it ; but indolence is 
apt to insinuate itself between love and ambition, in this period 
of life, and having once got the mastery, may injure or even in- 
capacitate the individual, by gradually sapping the moral and 
physical energies, before they are completely developed. 

The FOURTH Septenniad is claimed, in an especial manner, 
by Hymen — Cupid having been, for some years previously, in the 
field, as pioneer. The most proper age for entering the holy 
bands of matrimony has been much discussed, but never settled. 
I am entitled to my opinion ; and although I cannot here give 
the grounds on which it rests, the reader may take it for granted 
that I could adduce, were this the proper place, a great number 
of weighty reasons, both moral and physical, for the dogma which 
I am going to propound. The maxim, then, which I would incul- 
cate is this — that matrimony should not be contracted before the 
first year of the fourth Septenniad, on the part of the female 
— nor before the last year of the same, in the case of the male. 
In other words, the female should be, at least, 21 years of age, 
and the male 28 years. That there should be seven years dif- 
ference between the ages of the sexes, at whatever period of life the 
solemn contract is entered upon, need not be urged, as it is uni- 

Q 2 



66 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

versally admitted by all who are capable of forming a correct 
judgment on this point. There is a difference of seven years, not 
in the actual duration of life, in the two sexes, but in the stamina 
of the constitution, the symmetry of the form, and the lineaments 
of the face. The wear and tear of bringing up a family might 
alone accoimt for this inequaUty on the part of the female, — ^but 
there are other causes inherent in the constitution, and inde- 
pendent of matrimony or celibacy. 

In respect to early marriage, as far as it concerns the female 
sex, I have to observe that, for every year at which the hymeneal 
knot is tied, below the age of 21, there wiU be, on an average, 
three years of premature decay of the corporeal fabric — and a 
considerable abbreviation of the usual range of human existence. 
It is in vain to point out instances that seem to nullify this calcu- 
lation. There will be individual exceptions to all general rules. 
The above will be found a fair average estimate. 

On the moral consequences of too early marriages, it is not my 
intention to dilate ; though I could adduce many strong arguments 
against, and very few in favour of the practice. It has been 
said that " matrimony mat/ have miseries, but celibacy has no 
pleasures." As far as too early marriage is concerned, the adage 
ought to run thus — " marriage must have miseries, though celibacy 
may have no pleasures." 

The choice of a wife or a husband is rather foreign to my subject, 
and has occupied much abler pens than mine, to little advantage. 
It is not improbable that, were the whole of the adult population 
registered as they came of age, and each person, male or female, 
of the same rank in life, drew a name out of the urn, and thus 
rendered matrimony a complete lottery, the sums total of hap- 
piness, misery, or content, would be nearly the same, as upon the 
present principle of selection. This, at first sight, wiU appear a 
most startling proposition ; but the closer we examine it, the less 
extravagant it will be found. 

Courtship is too often a state of manoeuvring, the art and 
principles of which are adroitly exercised during this interesting 
period of life. Each party naturally enough conceals the weak 
points, and prominently portrays tlie strong, the amiable, and 



MATRIMONY. 67 

the "beautiful. Add to this system of intentional deception, the 
fact that Love is blind, and therefore prone to overlook defects ! 
What says Shakespeare on this subject } 

" The Lunatic, the Lover, and the Poet, 
Are of imagination all compact : — 
One sees more devils than vast Hell can hold ; 
That is the Madman : — The Lover all as frantic. 
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt !" 

Matrimony, in perhaps a majority of instances, is a lottery, in 
which many draw blanks or worse, when they expect great 
prizes. It is also to be remembered, that a very great proportion 
of matches are based on purely mercenary motives, and 

Where love is but an empty sound. 
The modem fair one's jest. — 

But where sordid interest has no share in the contract, how often 
is sudden passion, or " love at first sight," the preliminary to 
marriage! He who has looked narrowly into mankind, must 
acknowledge that, for one match resulting from long acquaint- 
ance, mutual esteem, and disinterested aflfection, there are ten 
where these supposed essentials are absent. It is probable that 
in a majority of what are termed " love-matches," the shaft of 
Cupid is sped at the first interview. Every one must call to 
mind numerous instances of this kind ; but we need only refer 
to the Poet of nature for corroboration. Three-fourths of his 
lovers, male and female, are captivated at the first glance. Look 
at Romeo and Juliet. They fall desperately in love at the first 
meeting — and not only so, but Romeo, in one moment, shakes 
off an attachment of long-standing, and a chere amie to whom 
he had made as many vows of eternal love as there were hairs in 
his head ! No wonder that the old Friar should exclaim — 

" Holy St. Francis, what a change is heie ! 
Is Rosaline, whom thou did'st love so dear, 
So soon forsaken ? Young men's love then lies 
Not really in their hearts, but in their eyes ! 



68 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

How long were Ferdinand and Miranda courting before they were 
over head and ears in love ? After all, I doubt whether these 
sudden fallings in love, and short courtships, turn out worse than 
the generality of marriages conducted with all possible caution, 
prudence, and careful calculation. At all events, they cannot be 
stigmatized as mercenary. Perhaps of all evils in matrimony, 
long courtships are the worst. 

When I adverted to the lottery of matrimony, I did not mean 
to propose or recommend it. Such a system would much resemble 
the insurance of lives — a system so true in generalities, yet so 
false in specialities. So with the marriage lottery. Not one 
might be entirely contented with his or her lot, and yet the average 
amount of happiness and misery might possibly be Uttle different, 
in the whole community, from what it is on the present plan of 
choice and selection.* 

It may appear paradoxical, but I believe it to be true — that 
what conduces to the happiness of individuals is not always the 
most conducive to the welfare of the state. In respect to matri- 
mony, there can scarcely be a doubt that the best chance of indi- 
vidual happiness will be based on equality of rank and fortune 
— on similarity of tastes — on congeniality of tempers — on identity 
of religious creeds — and on similar cultivation of moral principles. 
Yet, if all these things could be balanced and adjusted in the 
nicest manner, the weal of the whole community would ultimately 
suffer. The good would be joined with the good, it is true — but 
the bad would be linked with the bad ; and misery and depravity 
would be augmented in geometrical progression. Something of 
the kind (as far as rank is concerned) does actually obtain among 
the castes of the Hindoos, and among the royal and noble families 
of Spain and some other countries. The consequent degeneration 
is notorious. 

As matrimony is a state into which mankind is almost as irre- 
sbtibly impelled or attracted, as into life at the beginning, or death 

• In many countries, especially of the East, marriage is no better than a 
lottery, the females having no choice, but the will of their parents, and the 
parties seldom having an opportunity of seeing each other before the contract 
is sealed. In this case there is neither choice nor chance ! 



MATRIMONY. 69 

in the end, so, in despite of all the circumspection, vigilance, and 
selection of parents, guardians, and lovers themselves, there will 
always be a copious eflFusion into the hymeneal contract, of the 
most heterogeneous elements, conflicting passions, and con- 
trasting dispositions, whether we regard the ages, rank, wealth, 
temper, taste, or mcmd qualities of the parties united. And 
wisely is it so ordained. These jarring elements and incon- 
gruous temperaments, which are utterly irreconcileable in the 
parents, are blended and neutralized in the progeny, so that the 
general stream of society flows more smoothly in consequence ; 
exemplifying the maxim of the poet — 

" All partial ill is universal good." 

That contrasts produce harmonies, we have an illustration in a 
palatable and salubrious beverage, composed of constituents the 
most opposite. The acidity of the lemon is mollified by the 
sweetness of the sugar, while the fire of the alcohol is quenched 
in the insipidity of the water — the whole becoming a mild and 
homogeneous fluid. It is true that individuals can derive little 
consolation from the reflection, that their own misery will con- 
tribute to the welfare of the commxinity — and that the jarring 
elements of matrimonial warfare will give peace and happiness to 
their progeny. Yet the contemplative Christian and philosopher 
will not fail to trace, in this dispensation, the wisdom as well as 
the power of a superintending Providence !* 

* A clever Reviewer (in the Atlas) has given me a sharp brush on the 
subject of matrimony — especially on its comparison with a lottery, and on 
courtship resembling a warfare. In respect to the lottery, I neither propose 
nor recommend it. It was a mere abstract speculation. And, after all, when 
we consider the number of imprudent, ill-assorted, mercenary, and deceptious 
contracts that are made before the hymeneal knot is tied, and the bitter dis- 
appointments, crosses, misfortunes, difficulties, jarring temperaments, and 
absolute ruin that succeed that event, it is not easy to imagine that even a 
lottery would add to the evils. I speak not of what ought to be, but what 
actually w, and I wish the picture I have drawn may be overcharged. As to 
the warfare of courtship, I grant it was not a good term, and have changed it, 
it compliment to my reviewer, who has treated me, upon the whole, with 
great courtesy — indeed clemency. — \th Edition. 



70 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 



PULMONARY CONSUMPTION. 

Though not confined to any particular epoch of life, yet this 
frightful scourge which sweeps away one-fourth, at least, of the 
human race in these isles, commits its chief ravages in the course 
of the third, fourth, and fifth Septenniads : viz. between the ages 
of 15 and 35. Of these three Septenniads, the fourth is that on 
which the force of the storm is expended. In this Septenniad 
the daughters of the upper classes are " out," and consequently 
much more exposed to atmospheric influence, late hours, and all 
the deleterious agents of fashionable life, than they were during 
their nonage. In the middle classes, both sexes are also put out 
to their destined avocations, and thus rendered more open to 
the operation of the causes of the disease than previously. Un- 
principled charlatans, whether in or out of the profession, may 
pretend to cure consumption — it is for the honest man to portray 
the best means of prevention, as the only security against this fell 
destroyer of mankind. 

The malady may be conveniently divided into four periods — the 
latent state, or predisposition — the incipient stage, exhibiting 
external symptoms — the transition stage — and the confirmed stage, 
or that of irremediable disorganization of the lungs. In the first, 
much may be done to ward off the evil — in the second, the malady 
is sometimes checked — but in the third oiid fourth, the case is all 
but hopeless. 

I. CONSTITUTIONAL PREDISPOSITION. 

Long before the common symptoms of consumption begin to 
shew themselves, there is apparent to the experienced eye, a con- 
dition of constitution indicative of danger. This constitution is 
generally hereditary — but often acquired. In childhood, the face 
itself presents warnings, as evinced by thickness, of the upper 
lip — pale and flabby countenance — ^waxy appearance of skin. In 
YOUTH, the eye-lashes are long — the pupils of the eye large — 
languor or placidity of coxintenance. The head is oversized in 



PULMONARY CONSUMPTION. 71 

proportion — the chest narrow — the abdomen full. The growth 
of the body is not regular and progressive, being sometimes too 
quick, sometimes slow. Nutrition is imperfect, debility is com- 
plained of, and the digestive process is incomplete. Examined 
more closely, the individual will be found more than usually liable 
to take cold — the circulation is easily excited — and the breathing 
easily quickened by going up stairs or running. To these may be 
added, a slender neck, pearly teeth, incurvated nails, and an ex- 
quisitely sensitive skin. But although it is upon such consti- 
tutions and temperaments that consumption makes the greatest 
depredations, yet there is no constitution entirely exempt from 
the malady. The Negro himself often falls a sacrifice to it in 
this climate. All this time the intellect is clear — sometimes 
precociously developed. ITie temper is generally sweet, and the 
character of the individual most amiable. 

In this preliminary stage or condition, tubercles are formed or 
forming. They may be as small as grains of sand — but the seed 
is sown, and only wants a few auxiliary circumstances to ripen it 
into fatal activity. 

II. SECOND STAGE. 

In the second stage, external symptoms of the disease itself 
begin to be apparent. A slight cough, always attributed by the 
patient to cold, attracts the notice of parents or friends. It is 
dry, and more frequent in the mornings and evenings than at 
other times. There is a disposition to chilliness, especially in 
damp weather, and the individual likes to be near the fire, com- 
plaining of cold feet and a sensation of cold water trickling along 
the back. These chilly feelings are generally succeeded by slight 
reaction, or febrile heat, which, however, passes quite unnoticed 
by the invalid, unless closely questioned, when he or she will 
acknowledge a sense of burning in the palms of the hands and 
soles of the feet, when in bed. This cough and other S3rmptoms, 
if they appear in the Spring, often subside in Summer, and the 
patient and friends congratulate themselves on complete recovery 
from a common cold. But the Autxmin or Winter too often 



72 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

dispels the illusion, and brings with it an augmentation of the 
symptoms abovementioned. The cough is now attended with 
some frothy expectoration — the febrile symptoms are more 
marked — the shortness of breath, on going up stairs, is greater 
— debility is more complained of — and it becomes evident that 
the invalid is losing flesh. Some little pain is now often com- 
plained of in some or other part of the chest — and a deep 
inspiration causes cough at any time. Even now there is a pre- 
ference of lying on one side in bed ; and a close examination of 
the chest by the stethoscope, will often detect portions of the 
upper lobes of one or both lungs incapable of receiving the 
proper proportion of air, owing to the growth, diffusion, or 
aggregation of tubercles. 

III. THIRD, OR TRANSITION STAGE. 

In this stage, the expectoration, from being frothy or mucous, 
begins to present specks of white or yellow matter, shewing that 
some of the tubercles have acquired size — are softening down — 
and their contents making way into the air- tubes. The cough 
and febrile symptoms are now increased — there are occasionally 
some streaks of blood in the expectoration — the evening chills 
are more distinct — the re-action sharper — the respiration and cir- 
culation more frequent and quick — there are morning perspirations 
— and, in short, hectic fever is estabhshed, and emaciation pro- 
ceeds with augmented pace. Examination of the chest will 
now generally disclose excavations in the upper part of the 
lungs, on one or both sides. Haemorrhage is not now uncom- 
mon. In this stage, life is preserved for months or even years, 
though sometimes a few weeks suffice to hurry the victim to the 
grave. 

FOURTH, OR LAST STAGE. 

This need not detain us long. The patient steadily emaciates 
— the expectoration becomes profuse — the breathing laborious 
— the pulse rapid — the bowels relaxed — ulcers form in the mouth 



CONSUMPTION CAUSATION. 73 

and spread along the first passages — the evening chills and morn- 
ing perspirations are distressing — diarrhoea takes place — and 
death happily closes the scene, the patient confident in hope till 
the last breath ! The stethoscope, at this period, discovers large 
excavations in the lungs, surrounded by condensations and tuber- 
culous deposits in various stages of disorganization. 

Thus then, divested of mysticism and verbiage, the prominent 
symptoms and progress of pulmonary consumption are here . 
portrayed in little more than a couple of pages. 

CAUSATION. 

What, it may be asked, is the cause of all this destructive 
process .'' An unhealthy habit of body, called strumous or sci'O- 
fulous, is either hereditary or acquired. In the latter case, a great 
number of causes combine to produce this state of constitution, 
as bad diet, impure air, scanty cloathing, exposure to damp, late 
hours, fashionable dissipation, tight-lacing, &c. — in short, whatever 
tends to deteriorate the general health, and especially to disorder 
the organs of digestion. This state once induced, tubercles are 
either called into existence, or, if they have lain dormant from 
infancy, they are now excited into activity. They grow from 
scarcely visible specks to the size of a nutmeg, or larger — some- 
times isolated — more frequently in clusters, encroaching on the 
capacity of the lungs — lessening the volume of air taken in at 
each breath — irritating, and often inflaming the substance of 
the lungs in contiguity — and ultimately softening down, and 
coming forth in the form of tuberculous expectoration, attended 
with hectic fever, and all the fatal signs of confirmed con- 
sumption ! 

In the FIRST STAGE, or that of predisposition, the mal-habit of 
constitution may be often corrected, by avoiding the causes above- 
enumerated, and by improving the general health. Pure air, light 
nutritious diet, gentle exercise, attention to the digestive organs, 
will frequently render the soil, as it were, unfavourable for the 
growth of tubercles, or prevent their generation. It is in this 
state of predisposition, too, that the calido-friqid lavation, 

H 



74 KCONOMY OF HEALTH. 

recommended at page 16 of this edition, will prove a powerful 
defence against taking cold, one of the most common auxiliaries 
of the dire disease. 

Even in the second stage, when tubercles have afforded but too 
manifest signs of their presence, much may be done in checking 
their progress. Every time that a common cold is caught, the 
growth of the tubercles is accelerated by the catarrhal affection 
of the mucous membrane. And whenever the tubercles them- 
selves excite inflammation in the contiguous portions of lung, 
this very inflammation causes an augmented development of the 
tubercles.* Hence the importance of watching these events, and 
counteracting the evil speedily by leeches, blisters, seclusion, spare 
diet, and proper remedies. Hence the necessity of scrupulously 
avoiding cold and damp air, sudden transitions of temperature, 
exertions of body, and every thing, moral or physical, that can 
excite the circulation or hurry the respiration. Warm cloathing, 
a regulated temperature, and attention to the various secretions, 
are now of vital importance. Yet at this very time thousands of 
individuals are permitted or obliged to go out and expose them- 
selves to atmosjDheric vicissitudes that accelerate the progress of 
the malady. 

It is in these two stages, namely, during the period of predis- 
position and incipient development of symptoms (but especially 
in the former), that the change to a milder climate, during 
Winter and Spring, offers any chance of success. The benefit to 
be expected is two-fold ; — first, the higher temperature of the air 
than in our own atmosphere — and secondly, the increased facilities 
of getting out into the open air daily in the mild chmate, by 



* Each inflammatory cold which the phthisical invalid catches, acts on the 
incipient tubercles in the same way as a shower of rain succeeded by sun- 
shine, acts on grain in the ground. The soil is moistened and then 
warmed — the consequence is acceleration of growth in the seed. In the 
inflammatory catarrh, an increased afflux of blood is determined to the 
lungs, with corresponding increase of temperature. The growth of tubercles 
is thereby augmented. Thus, though the process of tuberculation is not 
strictly an inflammatory process, yet inflammation is a powerful auxiliary to 
the development of these morbid bodies. 



CONSUMPTION THIRD STAGE. 75 

which the general health may be improved. This last, indeed, is 
the chief advantage to be derived from Nice, Italy, or Madeira. 
There are some localities in our own country which offer valuable 
retreats, during Winter and Spring, for the phthisical invalid, 
little inferior to the boasted skies of Italy. These are, Torquay, 
Hastings, the Isle of Wight, and Clifton. These places do not 
present the azure sky, dazzling sun, and brilliant stars of Italy ; 
but they are free from the chilling tramontanes, the deadly malaria, 
and the uncomfortable mansions of the classic soil. 

By a temporary residence, annually, in one or other of these 
localities, the growth of tubercles is often checked, and then they 
may lie dormant during the remainder of life. 

The THIRD STAGE, marked by the appearance of tuberculous 
matter in the expectoration, defines the limits between probable 
recovery and death. Not one in one hundred need expect a cure 
after the tubercles have begim to break down and discharge their 
contents by the air-passages. The few recoveries are in cases 
where there are but a small number of tubercles, and where a 
great portion of the lungs is quite free from these morbid growths. 
In such instances, the softened tubercle or cluster of tubercles, is 
sometimes entirely discharged, and the excavation heals. This, 
however, results from improvement in the general health, and not 
from the operation of any specific remedy. The ignorant charla- 
tan and the imprincipled empiric, know not or regard not the 
diflferent stages of the disease above-described — the different con- 
ditions of the lungs corresponding with those stages — and the 
different modes of treatment that are absolutely necessary ! They 
apply their nostrum, and they promise a cure, whatever be the 
stage of the malady, whatever be the state of the organ of respi- 
ration ! Do they ever effect a cure of consumption .'' Never. 
They apply the name of consumption to diseases that are not con- 
sumption, and these recoveries are blazoned forth as cures. But 
they hurry many a case of real consumption to the grave — and 
they torture many a poor creature with their inhalations, frictions, 
and potent drugs, who would otherwise glide down to the tomb 
with comparatively little pain or distress. 

The commencement of the third stage — namely, the appearance 



76 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

of tuberculous expectoration, while it reduces our hopes of cure 
to the lowest ebb, precludes all idea of removing the invalid to a 
foreign climate. Such a step would be not merely useless — it 
would be cruel. The fatigues of a journey or voyage to Italy or 
Madeira, would not only shorten the days, but embitter the last 
moments of the dying sufferer ! Yet how many hundreds, nay 
thousands, have been torn from their comfortable homes and the 
cheering society of their relations, to perish in a foreign land, 
bereft of the balm of consolation which friendship can pour into 
the wounds of afflicted humanity on the bed of death ! Over how 
many victims of this kind does the Pyramid of Caius Cestius 
sweep its funereal shade daily in the Eternal City !* 

But it is time to leave this melancholy subject. The misfortune 
generally falls on the most amiable of both sexes — and that from 
no fault of their own, but from the taint of constitution trans- 
mitted from parent to progeny ! It is a merciful dispensation of 
Providence that, in this most fatal of all diseases, the hand of 
death is never perceived stealing over the emaciated frame, by the 
destined victim ; — on the contrary, 

" Hope springs eternal in the hectic breast," 

and the eye is closed in everlasting slumber during undiminished 
confidence of recovery ! Whether this happy " blindness to the 
future" should be broken by removing the film from the mental 
optics of the departing soul, is for the determination of the 
Divine. It should never be done by the Physician. 

N.B. — An ingenious friend of mine, Mr. Julius Jeffreys, has 
invented a very curious and useful apparatus, the respirator, 
which may be worn over the mouth, and which renders the air 
drawn into the lungs, even in the coldest weather, of the tem- 
perature of Madeira, or even of the Tropics. The heat of the 
breath that is expired, is communicated to numerous layers of fine 
gold or silver wire, and this metallic recipient re-communicates 

* The English burying-ground in Rome is close to the Tomb and Pyramid 
of Caius Cestius. 



C0K8UMFTI0N FOURTH STAGE. 77 

the caloric to the air inspired, so that the lungs themselves prove 
a reservoir of heat for the atmospheric air which we breathe. 
This apparatus promises to be of the greatest importance to 
phthisical invalids — and also to people of weak or irritable lungs, 
to be worn when they are exposed to the night air, or sudden 
changes of temperature, as when coming from theatres, churches, 
assemblies, or crowded places of any kind. 



78 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

FIFTH AND SIXTH SEPTENNIADS. 

[28 to 42 years.'] 

THE GOLDEN ^RA. 

Although Dr. S. Johnson was not quite correct in his assertion, 
so often repeated to Mrs. Thrale, that 

" Life declines from thirty-five," 

yet it is certain that, after the period in question, the corporeal 
fabric of man ceases to acquire any addition of power or perfection 
of function ; though it may, and generally does, augment in size 
— the increase of dimensions being often diminution of strength. 
The FIFTH and sixth Septenniads are, as it were, the double 
KEY- STONE of the arch of human life; but the curve of the arch 
in this place is so imperceptible, that, during this long period of 
fourteen years, it cannot often be distinguished from a right line. 
It is in this respect that the Johnsonian dogma is not strictly 
correct. Life remains, as it were, at a stand (as far as corporeal 
structure is concerned) during the fifth and sixth Septenniads 
— perhaps a little longer.* If the highest point of the arch could 
be ascertained, I should be incHned to place it at the beginning 
of the sixth Septenniad — that is about the age of 36 or 37 years- — 
namely, several years below the standard of Dr. Smith — and one 
or two years above that of the Great Moralist. The point of 

* It will be seen from the following extract, that Dr. Southwood Smith 
(Philosophy of Health) takes a more favorable view of human life than I do 
" Thus the interval between the period of birth and that of adult age includes 
a term of twenty-three years. The interval between the adult age ard that 
when life just begins to decline from its meridian, includes a term of twenty- 
four years." It may be true that the rate of mortality does not begin to 
increase till after the 47th year, but that the corporeal powers begin to 
" decline from their meridian," five years before that period, I fear is but 
too true. — J. J. 



MERIDIAN OF LIFE. 79 

sensible declination from the meridian, however, is about the age 
of 43 years. But whether we determine that the centre of the 
key-stone should be a little on one, or on the other side of the 
point abovementioned, it will be admitted that the double 
SepteNniad, between 28 and 42, is the Golden -^ra of human 
life — that period in which the material fabric and functions, 
as well as the intellectual faculties and capacities, touch their 
meridian, in ninety-nine cases out of the hundred. It is in this 
interval that the body possesses its maximum of soHdity and 
strength, without the loss of its elasticity and buoyancy. This 
is, in fact, the prime of life. 

This is the epoch, too, of man's existence (provided he has not 
grossly violated the laws of Nature and temperance, or carried 
into the world with him some hereditary taint) in which all the 
functions of the body are so nicely balanced, that no one interferes 
with another. The circulation in the heart does not disturb the 
respiration in the lungs — digestion is performed without the 
slightest consciousness — sleep is a temporary death without 
dying — and man springs from his couch with keen appetite for 
food, and eager energies for mental or corporeal exertion. The 
organs of supply are now more than able to compensate for the 
waste occasioned by the ordinary wear and tear of life ; — because 
the machine has ceased to make demands for additional growth. 
Hence it is that we are capable, during the fifth and sixth Sep- 
tenniads, of undergoing fatigues of body and exeitions of mind 
that would be ruinous to health, either before or after those epochs 
of existence. 

It is between the limits of 28 and 42, most unquestionably, 
that the mightiest exploits of corporeal strength have been per- 
formed ; but, for reasons which will presently appear, it may not 
always have been within the said limits, that the noblest eflFusions 
of intellect radiated from the human mind. The doctrine that 
the powers of the soul and of the body rise, acquii-e maturity, and 
decay together, has created great and unnecessary alarm in weak 
minds, tending, as it is supposed, towards materialism. The 
parallel does not run straight between mind and body generally 
— but only between the manifestations of mind, and that organ 



80 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

through which the manifestations are destined to be made by the 
Divine Architect : — namely, the brain. No one will now deny 
that the brain is the material organ of the mind — and no one will 
contend that the two are identical. The eye is not the function 
or faculty of sight, though it is the only organ by which sight can 
be effected. No one would be so insane as to suppose that the 
eye, or the optic nerve, or even the portion of brain with which 
the optic nerve communicates, can see ; — all these parts are only 
the material instruments by which external images are conveyed 
to the common sensory of the soul — which sensory is itself but 
an instrument. The same observations apply to all the other 
senses, as hearing, smelling, taste, &c. And if they apply to these, 
how much more strongly do they apply to the higher faculties of 
the mind ! Can the brain think or reflect ? Just as much as the 
coats or humours of the eye, the retina, the optic nerve, or the 
thalamus nervi optici can see or judge of colours. The brain is 
as much the instrument of the mind in thought, as the eye is the 
organ of vision. The brain, in the act of perception or volition, 
is as passive and unconscious an instrument, as the telegraph is 
when it conveys information from Portsmouth to the Admiralty, 
or instructions from the Admiralty to Portsmouth. . 

If certain portions of the brain be injured, certain faculties of 
the mind will be impaired — if the whole of the material organ 
be diseased or disordered, the whole of the mental faculties will 
be deranged — if the brain be destroyed, the soul can be no longer 
manifested in this world.* 

If the dread of materialism was great because the manifestations 
of the mind were said to be dependent on the state of the brain, 
that dread was much increased, when the phrenologists began to 
allot certain organs or portions of the brain for the manifestation 
of certain faculties of the mind. But, as it is now imiversally 
allowed that the brain is the organ of the mind, there can be no 
increase of materialism in dividing it into a series of organs. 
Before the anatomist explored the human body, there could but 

• The same holds good with respect to every other organ. Impair the 
coats, humours, or nerves of the eye, and the faculty of vision v^rill be 
proportionally impaired. Destroy any or all of them, and sight is lost. 



FHRENOLOOT. 81 

one conclusion be drawn, namely, that the various functions were 
performed by the body generally. Dissection, however, discovered 
various organs in the body, each having its own peculiar function. 
In the brain we find a great number of curiously and differently 
constructed parts : in the mind, a great number of different facul- 
ties. What is the rational inference ? The different parts were 
constructed by the wise Creator, for the performance of different 
functions. If all parts of the brain were equally qualified to 
manifest all the mental faculties, why was it constructed of such 
a multitude of different parts ?* We never see Nature take such 
unnecessary pains. But we have proof that certain portions of 
the brain have particular functions. Thus, let a certain part of 
the organ be injured by disease, and the faculty of sight is lost in 
the corresponding eye — and so on of all the other senses. Now, 
if there be organs allotted for the perception of external things, 
why should not there be organs for reflection, volition, and the 
vaxious faculties of the mind Pf 

The principles of phrenology may be, then, and I believe are, 
correct ; though the details, or many of the applications of the doc- 
trine may be wrong. That the brain is a congeries of organs, we 
have the evidence of our own senses — that these organs are destined 
for separate and different fimctions, we have proofs in several 
instances, and strong analogical reasons for believing in others. 

* If all parts of the brain were engaged in every mental operation, how 
could two or more different intellectual operations be carried on simul- 
taneously ? The thing is impossible. 

t Tliis, indeed, is all but proved by the fact that, in the same filament or 
bundle of nervous filaments, some of the nervous fibres (if we may use the 
term) are destined for transmitting impressions from the external world to 
the mind — while others, in the same pacquet, are employed in a totally 
different office, the conveyance of orders from the mind to the muscles. In 
other words, the same sheath binds up two nerves, apparently similar, yet 
one is for perception and the other for volition I If this be the case in the 
nerves, which are prolongations of the brain, who can doubt that the same 
diversity of function obtains in different parts of the brain itself ? It was 
only by detecting the different functions of the two nerves in one sheath, that 
their different natures were ascertained. The eye could not recognize one 
from the other ; so it is with the organs of the brain. 



82 ecoxomy of health. 

That the doctrine of a plurality of organs for the manifestation 
of several faculties of the mind, should favour materialism more 
than the doctrine of one organ for all the faculties, is so utterly 
absurd as to be entirely unworthy of notice ; — nor can I see that 
the said doctrine weakens, in the slightest degree, any moral or 
religious precept. Suppose it were asserted by a phrenologist 
that there is an organ of destructiveness, and that the greater 
development of that organ in one individual than in another, in- 
dicated a greater propensity to cruelty in that one than in the 
other — does this doctrine diminish the responsibility for the crime 
of cruelty or murder, or the necessity for controlling that bad 
disposition, any more than the doctrine of propensity to cruelty in 
the mind itself — a doctrine which no antiphrenologist will deny ? 
If a man should claim an excuse for crime, because he has an 
organ of criminality in his brain, another may claim, with equal 
justice, an irresponsibility, because he has a propensity to crime 
in his mind ! But there are good and bad organs in the brain, 
as well as good and bad propensities in the mind ; and the obli- 
gations we are under for cultivating the good and controlling 
the evil, are just as great in the scheme of phrenology, as in the 
systems of ethics and religion established before phrenology was 
heard of. 

But there are one or two other considerations which may tend 
to dispel the fears of the Christian, and diminish the importance 
of the phrenologist. The grand principle of phrenology is, to 
trace the correspondence between propensities of the mind and 
prominences in the head. The material organs could only be 
ascertained by comparing them with the mental faculties or dis- 
positions of the individual.* The phrenologist does not maintain 

* This was the process by which Gall arrived at his conclusions. He did 
not trace the faculties from their organs, but the organs from their faculties. 
Thus he was much struck with the powers of some people's memories, and 
ultimately discovered that they had prominent eyes. He afterwards traced 
this connexion or correspondence between retentive memories and prominent 
eyes generally, so as to establish a kind of principle. But he never appears 
to have taken the physical prominence first, and afterwards traced its phre- 
nological character. 



PHBBNOLOOT. 83 

that the organ is the cattse of the faculty or propensity of the 
mind. He might as well say that the brain is the cause of the 
mind (instead of being its instrument), as to say that particular 
parts of the brain are the causes of particular propensities. Such 
reasoning would be the very worst species of materialism, and do 
away with all moral responsibility. But each particular organ of 
the brain is as much the instrument of each particular faculty or 
propensity, as the brain, or aggregate of the organs, is the gene- 
ral medium of manifestation — or, in other words, the general 
instrument of the mind. Now let us apply the doctrine to practice. 
Suppose an individual discovers that he has a prominently bad 
organ and a prominently evil propensity ? — What is he to do ? 
He cannot compress the organ into smaller space ; and therefore 
he ought to control the evU. propensity . The knowledge of the evil 
propensity renders the knowledge of the bad organ of little use. 
Then which of the two investigations is the easiest ? I imagine 
that it is much more easy, and also much more safe, to ascertain 
our own evil propensities, than the prominences of our heads which 
are indicative of them. It requires great phrenological accuracy 
to determine the organ, by measuring the skull — but no great dis- 
crimination to ascertain the faculty or propensity of the mind by 
attention to our own dispositions. 

As far, then, as the study of ourselves is concerned, phrenology 
appears to be nearly a work of supererogation. It is like ex- 
amining with a microscope the papillae of the tongue, in order to 
ascertain whether or not we possess the sense of taste, when the 

" He did not, as many have imagined, first dissect the brain, and pretend, 
by that means, to have discovered the seats of the mental powers ; on the 
contrary, he first observed a concomitance between particular talents and 
dispositions and particular forms of the head." — Coombe. 

This was the true, as well as the original path of investigation. Deviation 
from it was the rock on which too many phrenologists have split. The 
practice of first ascertaining the faculties and propensities, and then remark- 
ing the organization, should have been followed for a century or more. The 
phrenologists forsook this path, and from too limited a number of facts, 
proceeded to reverse the order of investigation, and to predicate character of 
mind by dimensioru of brain ! The consequences have been such as any 
reasonable man might expect. 



84 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

question may be solved in an instant by eating an orange. It is 
Jike examining the eye in a mirror to ascertain the sense of 
sight— t-the possession or loss of which we must have long been 
aware of. Who would go to Stevenson or Curtis to have his ears 
probed, and to learn from these aurists whether or not he had the 
faculty of hearing ? But, suppose a man discovers a prominent 
organ — say combativeness — the corresponding propensity of which 
he was unconscious of before. What follows ? Will this dis- 
covery call into activity the dormant propensity ?* Will it make 
him more brave ? Will it render him more quarrelsome ? If the 
propensity did exist, he must have known it^-or, at all events, he 
might soon discover it, if he sought it : — and the discovery of the 
propensity itself renders a discovery of its organ or instrument a 
matter of curiosity rather than of utility. 

Thus, then, it appears to me that auto-phrenology, or the 
study of our own minds, may be successfully and safely cultivated 
without reference to the material organ of the mind — and that 
this applies to each particular faculty or propensity, and its mate- 
rial instrument, as well as to the whole brain collectively. 

The question is different, however, when we come to examine 
the faculties and propensities of our neighbours. In this case, 
if the science of phrenology be exact, and if the phrenologist be 
master of his art, a man's dispositions may be ascertained by a 
careful scrutiny of his head. Leaving the uncertainty of a science, 
which is yet in its infancy, out of sight, it is evident that the 
application of phrenological canons to society in general, must 
always be on a very limited scale. People vidll not subject their 
• heads to the calipers of the curious — especially if they have any 
propensities or dispositions which they wish to conceal; — and 
few, I believe, could look inwards upon their own hearts, without 
a suspicion that phrenology, if a true science, might make incon- 
venient discoveries on their heads. Thus, then, the application of 
phrenology to adults is likely to remain a dead-letter, or nearly 
so. 



♦ Can the propensity lie dormant while the organ is prominent ? If so, 
phrenology is uncertain. 



PHRBNOLOOY. 85 

The most feasible exercise of the new science is on the heads 
of children, with the view of determining their dispositions, pro- 
pensities, and capacities. I think the phrenologist takes upon 
him a tremendous responsibility in predicating the mental cha- 
racter of the man by measuring the brain of the child. It is to 
be remembered that the propensities, in this case, have not yet 
developed themselves, and consequently, that their material organs 
or instruments have acquired no dimensions beyond those which 
the hand of Nature gave them. 

It is well known that all organs, of the body generally, perhaps 
of the brain itself, acquire force, and even size, in proportion as 
they are exercised. But the instruments or organs of intellect 
being hardly at all exercised in infancy, it must be a most dan- 
gerous as well as difficult task, to estimate the propensities 
which are yet in abeyance. When a brain was presented to Dr. 
Spurzheim — and, consequently, when the actual organs of the 
mind were laid bare before him, without any of the embarrass- 
ments which the skull might occasion ; — and he was asked to 
form an estimate of the mental characters of the individual — what 
was his observation ? He said " the experiment was not a fair 
one, inasmuch as he was not acquainted with the state of health, 
constitution, or education of the individual, all of which it was 
essential for him to be aware of, before drawing positive in- 
ferences."*' 

It is true that Dr. Spurzheim did venture to give an opinion of 
the individual's character, from some remarkable phenomena in 
the cerebellum and back parts of the brain — and he appears to 
have guessed right. But when we have the authority of one of 
the founders of phrenology that, without a knowledge of the 
health, constitution, and education of the person, we can draw 
no positive inferences, how can we attach much importance to the 
examination of children's heads, before the education has well 
commenced — before the constitution is adjusted — and before many 
of the faculties and propensities have even dawned } 

One of the surest modes of investigating the connexion be- 
tween certain portions of the brain and the corresponding facul- 

* Dr. Coombe on Insanity. 



86 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

ties of the mind, would be through the medium of pathology — 
namely, by comparing disease in the organ with disordered 
manifestation of the intellect. This is rendered exceedingly diffi- 
cult in consequence of the brain being double. Thus unless the 
two organs — say of combativeness — be injured, we cannot discover 
the loss of function in one. Monomania, or mental derange- 
ment on a single topic, would seem to promise interesting dis- 
coveries in this respect; but although we are confident that 
insanity, whether general or partial, is always occasioned by some 
disorder or disease of organization — especially of the brain, yet, 
unfortunately, the traces of these functional disorders or structiiral 
changes in the organ of the mind, cannot always be found after 
death, or they are so mixed up witii other lesions that we are often 
left in the dark, on the subject of phrenology. Still, with all 
these disadvantages, insanity affords the strongest proofs of the 
truth of phrenology, while phrenology offers the most rational 
explanation of insanity. 

This short digression on phrenology is not designed to dis- 
courage the study of a science, whose leading principles I believe 
to be founded in truth ; but to check the extravagant expectations 
of enthusiasts, and, what is worse, the confident assertions of 
SCIOLISTS. The study of phrenology is one of the most difficult 
that can be ijndertaken by man, and no predications are at all 
worthy of credence, except from those who have devoted years to 
the investigation. 

I have hinted, a few pages back, that although the mental 
and corporeal powers attain their acme in the fifth and sixth 
Septenniads, the intellect may yet display greater prodigies 
after the completion of that period, than it could have done 
during the golden sera of moral and physical perfection. The 
reason of this is obvious. The mind continues to acquire know- 
ledge long after the body has ceased to gain strength. And 
although certain powers of the intellect, as memory, imagination, 
or even perception, may be on the decline, yet the accumu- 
lated materials in the granary of the mind, may, and often do, 
enable it to construct edifices of nobler dimensions and more 



POWERS OF THE MIND. 87 

durable architecture, than at earlier and more vigorous epochs 
of life. 

It was in the Golden Septenniad that the Bard of Avon — 

" Exhausted worlds and then imagined new." 

The almost supernatural genius of Shakespeare, as exhibited in 
his works, the first of which (Romeo and Juliet) appeared when 
the author was in his 33rd year, renders us sceptical as to the 
possibility of that genius being surpassed after the turn of life. 
It was in the fifth or sixth Septenniad that " Waverly" was 
executed — and no one will contend that it was excelled by any 
of its successors. After the meridian Septenniads, indeed, the 
Wizgjd of the North exhibited a sad falling off — more, however, 
ftDm premature exhaustion of the intellectual powers by inordi- 
nate labour, than from a natural decline of the mental energies. 
" Childe Harold" was bom even before the " Golden ^ra" 
commenced, and was scarcely excelled by any subsequent pro- 
duction of Byron's gigantic intellect ! 

It is to be remembered, however, that, in the productions of 
these master-minds, imagination was the grand agent — a faculty 
which is early developed, and among the first to feel the withering 
hand of Time. Yet even here, we have ample evidence that the 
powers of the mind are far more slow to decay than those of 
the body. Milton composed his " Paradise Lost," long after 
the meridian of life had passed away, and when the author 
was entering his ninth Septenniad ! ! Johnson composed his 
Rasselas in one week, and imder the pressure of affliction, at 
the age of fifty. 

But let us look to another class of towering intellects — those 
who have built up imperishable truths on immutable bases — who 
have dealt in facts rather than in fictions — who have exercised 
the judgment more than the imagination. Bacon, Newton, 
Locke, Linn-eus, &c. &c. aflFord striking illustrations. The 
" Father of Philosophy" brought forth his " Novum Organon" 
in the fifty-ninth year of his age — at a time when Aristotle 
had obtained supreme authority in the schools, and when men, 
lost in a labyrinth of definitions, distinctions, and disputations, 



88 ECONOMT OF HEALTH. 

wasted their time in barren and useless speculations — " when 
there still was wanted a comprehensive mind which could survey 
the whole region of science ; — examine the foundations of sys- 
tems of philosophy that palsied the progress of society — and 
suggest a more sure and advantageous mode of cultivating know- 
ledge. Such a commanding genius was Bacon, and such the 
grand plan which he executed in his ' instauration of the 
SCIENCES.' The eternally increasing pile of natural knowledge, 
which philosophers (following his method of experimental in- 
vestigation) have been able to raise, is an imperishable monument 
to his memory." 

The father of the exact sciences — the immortal Newton, issued 
to the world his " Principia" in the last year of the " Golden 
./Era" of human life, viz. at the age of 41 ; but such was the 
vigour of his intellect that, in his 73d year, he solved, in one 
evening, and as a matter of amusement, the famous problem of 
the TRAJECTORIES — the most difficult task which Leibnitz, in 
envy, could devise ! 

It was three years after the " decline of life," according to 
Dr. Johnson's estimate — namely, in the 38th year of his age, that 
the celebrated Locke, " began to form the plan of his Essay on 
Human Understanding" — which work did not see the light for 
twenty years afterwards, and consequently till the author had 
advanced into his ninth Septenniad. However derogatory it 
was to the then heads of colleges in Oxford, that they should 
have endeavoured to suppress the treatise on understanding, 
few will now consider the Essay as indicative of any decay of 
intellect in its immortal author! LiNN^trs, the celebrated 
naturalist, published his " Species Plantarum," characterized 
by Haller as his " Maximum Opus et j;Etemum," in the 46th 
year of his age, and consequently after the expiration of the 
Golden ^ra. 

Volumes indeed might be filled with the prodigies performed 
by the mind long after the body had declined from the meridian, 
and even descended far into the vale of years, proving, beyond a 
doubt, that the powers of the mind and of the body do not run 
quite so parallel, in their rise, progress, or decadence, as the 



EMULATION AND AMBITIOK. 89 

materialists assert. The reason why the mind can put forth 
gigantic energies, and perform prodigies after the body has 
become greatly deteriorated, appears to be this : — After a certain 
age — say 30 years — the body cannot increase in strength, or 
improve in any of its functions ; but the mind is daily and hourly 
furnishing itself with knowledge, which is power, for twenty or 
thirty years subsequently. With these accumulated materials, 
the INTELLECT is enabled to erect imperishable memorials of its 
acquirements, when the body is tottering on the verge of the grave. 
But let it not be imagined that these mental monuments are 
the products of mental powers that have gone on increasing with 
years. Far from it. They are the results of accumulated stores 
in the emporium of the soul, while the powers of using them 
have been gradually declining ! If the man of 30 years possessed 
the knowledge and experience of him who has attained the age 
of 50 — and with equal talents — he would be able to erect far 
more splendid trophies of intellectual prowess than the senior in 
years. The true and practical inference is this : — if we hope to 
send forth corruscations of mind in advanced age, we must charge 
the electric battery (the mind's material organ) in the prime of 
life. He who attempts, in the vale of years, to astonish the world 
with the elaboration of knowledge, acquired after the completion 
of his sixth Septenniad (42) — and with energies of mind not 
exerted strenuously before that epoch, will find himself lamentably 
disappointed. 

It is in the fifth Septenniad that the emulation of youth gradually 
slides into the ambition of manhood. The change is so gradual 
as to be scarcely perceptible — like the mutations of figures in the 
magic lantern, or the transformations which fancy loves to trace 
in the moving panorama of clouds on a Summer's eve. That 
which was in early life only a laudable desire to excel in literature, 
arts, science, or manly exercises, becomes, in manhood, a passion 
for outstripping and eclipsing our neighbours, in rank, wealth, 
estimation, power, and all the thousand objects, paths, and pur- 
suits of AMBITION ! This passion, wisely conferred on man, no 
doubt, though too often unwisely exercised, has been differently 
viewed by different philosophers. By some it has been deduced 

I 2 



90 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

from Heaven itself — and represented as glowing in the breasts of 
kings and heroes. This, however, was not the sentiment of a man 
who climbed all its giddy heights — ^fathomed all its treacherous 
depths — and tasted all its dangerous sweets ! 

" Cromwell, I charge thee fling away ambition ! 
By that sin fell the Angels ! 

The Hero of Macedon found the reward of his ambition in the 
Granicus — Hannibal in exile — Caesar in the senate — Sidney 
on the SCAFFOLD ! Sweden's " mad Monarch" touched the goal 
of his ambition at Pultowa — Wolsey in disgrace — Napoleon 
in captivity ! 

Ten thousand illustrious victims of ambition might be cited 
whose shades may possibly be soothed by the celebrity of their 
fates : — but who could number the myriads who have fallen 
sacrifices at the shrine of this passion, without the consolation of 
sympathy from friends, or the honour of record in history ! In 
every gradation of society, from the minister who steers the vessel 
of state, down to the reckless driver of the cab or the omnibus, 
ambition, in one or other of its proteian shapes, is the ruling 
passion that too often destroys the body and endangers the soul. 
Metaphysicians and phrenologists have divided and subdivided 
the passions and propensities rather too minutely, and denomi- 
nated them somewhat capriciously. It is not a little extraordinary 
that, while the phrenologists have given us organs for construc- 
tiveness, wonder, individuality, colouring, locality, eventuality, 
causality, &c. &c. they should have discovered no organ for 
AMBITION, which is not only the most prominent, but the most 
predominant passion of the soul, especially during the golden 
JERA of life. It is futile to tell us, that ambition is merely the 
abuse of some minor passion or propensity, as of self-love. 
Ambition is a master principle or passion in mental philosophy, 
and not a subordinate one. It is the parent, and not the progeny 
of many leading propensities, honoured with distinct organs in 
the brain, by phrenologists. It is the impelling power which 
leads (or drives) to distinction in the senate, the bar, the pulpit, 
the college, the hall, the stage, and the field of battle. — These are 



EMULATION AND AMBITION. 91 

the prominent, but not the principal theatres on which ambition 
acts its various parts. Many of those passions and propensities 
which are known under very different appellations, are ambition 
in disguise. Tims competition, a passion which agitates the 
universal mass of mankind, is the ambition of ordinary life. In 
the " breasts of kings and heroes," indeed, it takes the latter title, 
as more lofty and dignified ; but, from these exalted personages, 
downwards, through the vast chain of human society, the same 
passion goes under the humbler title of competition. What is 
ostentation, in either sex, but the ambition of surpassing our 
neighbours, or equalling our superiors, in pomp and show ? 
Pride itself is often nothing else than ambition, gratified and 
elated by the supposition, whether well or ill-founded, that the 
individual is superior in personal importance, rank, riches, attain- 
ments, or other circumstances, to the generality of mankind. 
Vanity is only a lower grade of pride. 

The " LOVE OF PRAISE or fame," which has been considered 
by some philosophers as almost a universal passion, is, in reality, 
the ambition of rising higher than others in the world's estimation. 
One of Johnson's definitions of ambition runs thus : — " going 
about with studiousness to obtain praise." In fine, that it 
is THE most generally diiFused, and powerfully operative passion 
or propensity in the human breast, I appeal to a careful 
analysis of the human mind itself. The leading definition of 
the great Lexicographer will strikingly corroborate this assertion. 
" Ambition ; the desire of something higher than is possessed 
at present." I apprehend that the most rigid scrutiny of every 
nation and of every individual on the earth's surface, would fail 
to discover a single human being who did not answer to the above 
definition. The discontent with our present situation, and the 
desire of improving it, have been the themes of poets and philo- 
sophers, from the " Nemo Contentus" of the Roman Bard, down 
to the " Essay on Man" of the Twickenham Muse. 

That an organ corresponding with, and representative of, such 
a prominent and paramount propensity of the human mind, should 
remain unnoticed and undiscovered by the phrenologists is, to me, 
most inexplicable, considering the talents with which the subject 



92 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

has been investigated, and the knowledge of human nature that 
must have been possessed by the inquirers. Another defect in 
phrenology has struck me forcibly. It does not appear to me that 
the phrenologists have paid sufficient attention to the progression 
or succession of the propensities. Thus, some of those which 
are the most predominant, at one period of life, are nearly, if not 
completely, nul or void, in other stages of existence. The passion 
of LOVE, in its usual acceptation, exists not in infancy and old 
age, though the organ must exist. But if we allow that the 
function of an organ in the brain changes with time, then we have 
a rational explanation of phenomena which caimot be accounted 
for on any other theory. 

I have already hinted that the emulation of youth becomes 
the AMBITION of middle age. It is highly probable that, if the 
attendant moral and physical circumstances were equal, there 
would always be found a due proportion between the energies 
of these two passions — or rather grades of the same passion, as 
developed at diiferent epochs of existence. There are exceptions 
to aU general rules ; but they are often apparent rather than real. 
Thus there are instances on record where the youth has displayed 
no ability, but rather the reverse, and yet where the man has 
subsequently astonished the world by the strength or brilUancy of 
his intellect. Dean Swift affords the illustration which serves 
as the text for the advocates of this argument. Let us sift it a 
little. Swift went to college, and there he cultivated poetry and 
satire, to the entire neglect of mathematics. He was rejected 
at his examination, and the world set him down as a dunce, in 
youth ! How he turned out in manhood, need not be told. It 
is probable that all the exceptions of this kind would prove, if 
cautiously investigated, to present the same results. Every one 
who is at all conversant with human nature, will now acknow- 
ledge that what has been said of the talent for poetry, applies to 
every other kind of talent. " Nascitur, non fit." It is quite 
true, as Locke has said, that the human mind (as well as its 
material organ, the brain) is devoid of innate ideas, and like a 
blank sheet of paper at birth. All ideas, all knowledge must be 
subsequently acquired through the medium of the senses and 



EMULATION AND AMBITION. 93 

reflection. But it does not follow that, because all these sheets 
are blank, they are all equally well calculated for acquiring 
knowledge. Far from it. Some of them are like thick Bath 
post — others like thin foolscap — and many of them resemble 
common blotting-paper, incapable of retaining or exhibiting any 
distinct or legible impression : — the mind and its organ being, in 
fact, a " rudis indigestaque moles." — This part of the subject, in 
fine, may be summed up in a very few words, though it has 
occasioned interminable discussions among metaphysicians. The 
qualities of our minds, or rather of the material organs of our 
minds, are hereditary, or bom with us ; but the qualifications or 
acquirements depend on ourselves and on the circumstances in 
which we are accidentally placed — men, therefore, are not bom 
equal. The powers of their minds, or of the material organs of 
their minds, are as diversified as the powers of their bodies, or 
the features of their faces. If many are bom with constitutions 
incapable of lasting more than a few months or years ; so, many 
come into this world with minds, or organs of the mind, incapable 
of acquiring more than the very rudiments of knowledge — some, 
even without that slender capacity ! 

But, to revert to the analogy between emulation in youth and 
ambition in age. A volume might be filled with proofs of this 
analogy, or rather identity. I will only cite a very few illus- 
trations from the dead, and from the living. The emulation of 
youth which led Napoleon to distinguish himself from his fellow- 
students in Brienne, swelled into that ambition, afterwards, which 
urged him to seize the sceptre of Europe, and grasp at that of 
the world. The laudability of the emulation cannot be questioned. 
That of the ambition is another thing. The latter has furnished 
the most striking example of retributive justice which the annals 
of the world bear on record. 

In our own times, that emulation which won a " double first" 
at Oxford for a plebeian, ripened subsequently into that ambition 
which shrunk not from wielding the destinies of the most powerful 
nation on this globe. In both cases, the talents were hereditary, 
or, at all events, congenital ; but fate threw the two actors upon 
widely different theatres of action. 



94 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

Be it remembered, however, that there is more energy of talent 
required to overcome difficulties, than to display the fruits of 
abilities and acquirements under easy circumstances. Though 
Peel would doubtless have been a great man, had he been bom 
in penury ; yet his arrival at half his present eminence, against 
the tide of adversity, and under all the disadvantages of the 
" res angusta domi," would have entitled him to double his present 
credit. 

The EMULATION of a " Minor," at Harrow, stung with indig- 
nation by wanton, if not cruel censure, expanded into that gigantic 
poetical ambition, which spumed mankind, and seemed almost 
to become misanthropy ! That emulation which, in the youth- 
ful breast of a Brougham, grasped at universal knowledge, boiled 
forth in the shape of ambition, in riper years ; and, through the 
power which that knowledge conferred (combined with splendid 
talents), carried the owner forward to his goal, over the heads of 
a thousand competitors, who were doomed to " toil after him in 
vain."* 

These four illustrations — two from the dead, and two from 
the living — might be multiplied ad infinitum, and easily made 
to prove several propositions, but especially the following, viz. — 
First, That the emulation of youth becomes the ambition of 
age ; — Idly, that talent is not developed at any period of life, 
unless it has existed from the beginning — in other words, that 
it is congenital, and not acquired; consequently, that men are 
not bom equal :t — thirdly, that, if anything be entitled to the 
denomination of " universal passion," it is ambition, taken 
in its extended sense — and, if so, there ought to be an appropriate 
organ for this passion, if there be any truth in phrenology. J 

* Is it true that one of the most eminent statesmen of the present day 
was " plucked," at his first examination at College, and that, stung by the 
indignity, he subsequently took a " double first?" I have been credibly 
informed that this was the case. 

t Equal in civil rights — but not in mental capacities. 

J Perhaps it may be that, as ambition is a universal passion, its manifes- 
tation must be through many, and not through any one organ in the brain." 
—Ath Edition. 



u 



MODERN MALADIES — THEIR SOURCES. 95 

But ambition, as has been already hinted, is not the predomi- 
nating impulse in every epoch of human existence. In youth, 
and in the form of emulation, it co-exists with, and is often cast 
in the shade by, love. In the Golden ^ra (28 to 42), and 
when it assumes its proper form, it is still in competition or 
struggle with its powerful companion, and only begins to obtain 
the mastery towards the close of the period in question. Thus 
it may be laid down that, at 28, love is somewhat stronger than 
ambition — at 42, weaker— at 35, the two passions are antjigonists 
of nearly equal powers. 

But LOVE, though it may be sometimes a stronger impulse than 
AMBITION, is not so universal. Many pass through life, without 
kno\ving what love is — ^none without experiencing ambition, in 
one or other of its multiform shapes. Be this as it may, it is 
during the two Golden Septenniads of life, that man, in every 
gradation of society, while aiming at the objects of his ambition, 
whatever they may be, too often loses the substance in grasping 
at the shadow. It is in the meridian of his mental and corporeal 
powers, that the lord of the creation can perceive no limits to their 
duration or strength. This 

" Blindness to the future kindly given," 

is not always wisely exercised. As common economy is most 
advantageously practised in the period of prosperity, so, the 
ECONOMY of HEALTH is most beneficially cultivated, when we are 
in the fullest enjoyment of that blessing. The stings of unmerited 
penury are blunted by habits of previous moderation — and so the 
dangers and suiFerings of accidental disease are obviated or miti- 
gated by previous attention to temperance. It is in these two 
meridian epochs, however, that the seeds of various diseases, sown 
at much earlier periods, now take on activity of growth, and 
bring forth their bitter fruits. But, independently of these, the 
germs of many new afflictions, hitherto unknown to the con- 
stitution, are firmly implanted, and soon fructify with disastrous 
fertility. That dry-rot of the human frame, consumption, which 
may have lain dormant for so many years, is frequently called into 
action about the beginning of the fifth or sixth Septenniads, 



96 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

by causes which had not previously operated. But the great 
evil — the root of innumerable evils — the proteiform malady — 
DYSPEPSY — the hydra-headed monster of countless brood and 
Medusa mien, is the progeny of civihzation — and is much more 
indebted for its existence and diffusion, to intellectual refinement 
than to bodily intemperance — in other words, its causes, multi- 
farious as they are, may be traced far more frequently to anxieties, 
cares, and tribulations of mind, than to improper indulgences of 
the palate or senses. This " nova pestis" was unknown to — or 
so rare as to be undescribed by, our ancestors. This assertion 
need not stagger us. All diseases are the creatures, or rather the 
creations of circumstances. Numerous maladies of antiquity have 
disappeared from the tablet of nosology, and others have taken their 
place. It may be sufficient to advert to syphihs and cholera, no 
authentic types of which can be found among the records of Greek 
or Roman medicine. To come nearer home : — diseases of the heart, 
one of the most proteian forms of the malady under consideration, 
were so little attended to before the French revolution, as to be 
scarcely noticed by medical writers. The portentous scenes of 
that eventful period, called forth such a multitude of examples 
of tliis fatal disease, that a volume was soon vmtten on the sub- 
ject by Corvisart — and the mental excitation that has ever since 
continued, has kept up the tendency to alFections of the heart, 
which are now amongst the most prominent and dreadful of 
human afflictions ! 

Dyspepsia, then, is a comparatively new disease — because 
its sources are now multiplied beyond all former example. The 
observant physician has better opportunities of tracing the con- 
nexion between cause and eifect, in this case, than any other 
enquirer into the state of human nature and of society. His 
observations, therefore, are entitled to some attention. 

We breathe in an atmosphere (speaking somewhat metapho- 
rically) so dense from the pressure of redundant population, that 
life is a kind of instinctive struggle for existence ! Compressing 
or compressed by others, the range for individual exertion is re- 
duced to a very narrow compass, as compared with that which 
our forefathers enjoyed. But the smaller the space which is left 



MODKRN MALADIES — THEIR SOURCES. 97 

for us to move in, the greater the power that is required for 
motion. If to this condition of society, which may be considered 
as a state of rapid transition from rarity to density, we add the 
fiact that there is a proportionate increment of emulation, am- 
bition, competition, and even contention, diffused throughout all 
ranks and classes of the community, we shall be able to form some 
idea of the detriment to health which must ensue from this 
conflicting turmoil ! 

Although the progressive increase of population would naturally 
and ine\'itably tend towards the above-mentioned issue, yet there 
has been fused into this redundancy an element of the most wonder- 
ful and active kind, comparatively dormant in all preceding times, 
but now revolutionizing, with irresistible impetus, the whole face 
of things ! This is knowledge — the product of intellect — as 
much superior to physical force, as the mind is more noble than 
the material fabric which it inhabits. Whatever relation may 
obtain between redundancy of population and augmentation of 
knowledge, in respect to cause and effect, one thing is clear, that 
there is very little proportion in the rate of their progression. 
Thus, if the number of inhabitants, in a town or country, be 
foimd to double in a given time, it may safely be predicated that 
the amount of knowledge will quadruple, at the very least, in the 
same space. This disproportion is not likely to decrease, but the 
contrary. Various circumstances combine to set hmits to popu- 
lation ; but the products of mind are not so easily circumscribed. 
Every year, every day, every hour, opens out new sources of know- 
ledge, and multiplies the means of diffusing it. Every addition 
to our stock of information augments our thirst for further sup- 
plies. Under such circumstances the attempt to stem the tide of 
intellectual improvement would be little less difficult than to roll 
back the flood of the Ganges to the Himalayha mountains. Every 
rude impediment thrown into the stream of intelligence, with the 
view of checking its velocity, will only increase its force and 
render it more turbulent. It will be much more prudent to clear 
its bottom, and widen its channel. It is immaterial how rapid 
may be the current, provided it is made to run smooth. 

This torrent of the mental energies, or, as has been quaintly 

K 



98 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

termed, this " march of intellect," leaves no class of society, 
from the monarch to the mechanic, unaffected or stationary, in 
the stream of human life, though some are much more under its 
influence than others. Some are volunteers — others are pressed 
men. Of the higher orders many are forced into the vortex by 
pride — perhaps by shame ; for knowledge is not now an article 
that can safely be contemned, because it has got among the 
vulgar. The majority, however, even of the highest in the land, 
seek knowledge from a nobler motive than the fear of being 
deemed ignorant. They woo Science for its own sake. But the 
great mass of mankind, and especially those connected with the 
various professions, with the senate, diplomacy, arts, and arms — 
with commerce, manufactures, and even mechanics, are all im- 
pelled forward into the current of intellectual improvement, and of 
scientific and literary acquirements, by ambition, competition — or 
necessity. Nor let this last species of stimulus be despised. It 
has led to wonderful, not to say glorious results, in all ages of 
the world. 

These channels, through which the operations of intellect flow, 
have been pointed out because they are condvdts through which 
a host of new disorders have been let loose on society, perplexing 
to the physician, and destructive of health and comfort, to an 
extent beyond the power of calculation ! 

The following question may, very naturally, be asked here : — 
How is it, if refinement of civilization and intellectual culture 
have brought upon society a new and most extensive class of 
maladies, that the range of human existence is considerably greater 
than before the introduction of this " march of intellect," and 
its alleged consequences ? Though this has some appearance of 
paradox, it is very easily reconciled with the fact, which itself is 
undeniable. It does not follow that those disorders which assail 
the greatest number of p>eople, should produce the greatest degree 
of mortality. Thus, for every one person seized with epidemic 
cholera, there were 500 attacked by epidemic influenza ; and yet, 
for every one death from the latter disease, there were fifty or one 
himdred from ihe former. This shews that certain kinds of mala- 
dies may affect great multitudes of people, without materially 



MODERN MALADIES. 99 

abridging the span of human life. Let us suppose, what is very 
neariy the fact, that in the first quarter of the 1 8th century, the 
annual mortality among an equal number of people, was twenty 
per cent, more than in the first quarter of the present century ; — 
but that per contra, the annual expenditure of drugs (still on equal 
masses of the community) is now fifty per cent, greater than it 
was one hundred years ago. What is the legitimate inference 
which we ought to draw from this ? It is, that, in 1726, death 
had more annual victims, from a given number of the population ; 
but, in 1826, the doctors had more patients among the same 
number of the community. In other words, we may not be so 
robust a race as our forefathers, and yet we may be longer lived. 

The changes which time has made on the whole surface of 
the country — in our manners, habits, diet, dress, dwellings, 
avocations — but above all, in the disproportioned exertions of the 
mind (whether joyous or dolorous) compared with those of the 
body ; — these changes, I say, and many others which might be 
enumerated, have banished some diseases entirely — introduced 
others, de novo — and so modified all, that half of them would 
not now be recognized by Sydenham, were he to rise from the 
grave.* 

These maladies of the body clearly illustrate the moral or mental 
causes from which so many of them spring. Thus the brain, or 
organ of the mind, being kept in a state of over-exertion or over- 
excitement, by emulation, competition, ambition, anxiety, tribu- 
lation, and a thousand other causes, naturally exhibits the eiFects 
of such a condition in its own functions, or in the functions of 
other organs with which it is linked in the strictest bonds of 
sympathy. Irritability of temper, for instance, is among the first 
links in the chain of morbid phenomena — and it is no trifling drop 
of misery in the cup of life. The nerves, which may be con- 
sidered as prolongations of the brain itself, come next into play, 

* In former times, diseases were fewer in number, but more fatal in 
event, than now. They were then more acute — they are now more chronic. 
The great majority of ailments, in our days, are disorders rather than 
diseases ; — and hence they are compatible with length of years — though 
years of suffering.— 4<A Ed. 



100 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

and are the seat of a host of what are called nervous com- 
plaints, nearly unknown to our forefathers. Thus the long train 
of painful sensations, from tic-douloureux, down to the most 
obscure feelings of rheumatism, constituting a whole class of 
modern maladies, under the term neuralgia, are developed 
through the medium of the brain and nervous system, and arise 
from the causes which I have been tracing. Some of these are 
amongst the most painful afflictions to which the human frame is 
subject — and although they do not always proceed directly from 
moral causes, yet most of them originate through the medium 
of the mind operating on the body, and deranging some of its 
functions, thus indirectly inducing the neuralgic class of diseases. 
These, in themselves, are formidable enough ; but they are much 
more easily borne than many which follow. 

It is not a little curious that those organs on which morbid 
impressions, whether moral or physical, are first made, are not 
always the first to exhibit the eflFects of these impressions. 
Doubtless they do suffer at the time ; but the phenomena pro- 
duced by these causes are seldom noticed, either by the individual 
or his friends. It is in those organs or parts of the body which 
are most intimately associated with the organ of the mind 
(the brain) that the consequences of moral impressions are, in 
general, first observed — more especially the digestive organs. 
Thus a man experiences a sudden reverse of fortune, or a bUght 
of ambition. His mind may appear to bear the shock with con- 
siderable fortitude; but soon will the tongue turn white, the 
appetite fail, and the complexion grow sallow. These are the 
preludes to a host of maladies, that, radiating from the organs of 
digestion, spread their baleful influence over every other organ 
and function in the body. ' 

And here a most singular phenomenon presents itself. The 
brain, the citadel of the soul, which had withstood the first 
assaults of the moral enemy, and had, as it were, communicated 
with the other and inferior organs of the body, for support or 
participation, is on the contrary, assailed rather than assisted by 
them ! Tlienceforth there is nothing but action and re-action, 
of the most unfriendly kind, between organs and functions that 



SOURCES OF MODERN MALADIES. 101 

had hitherto co-operated in the strictest harmony ! The human 
microcosm, at this time, resembles an unfortunate city, beleaguered, 
on all sides, by the enemy from without, and torn by the dis- 
sentions of hostile factions within its walls ! The mind itself, 
whose manifestations must necessarily, in this sublunary state, 
correspond with the condition of the material tenement, exhibits 
phenomena in strict relation with the bodily functions. Though 
stunned, as it were, by the first colhsion wdth the moral cause or 
misfortune, it would regain a great degree of equanimity, were it 
not for the disorders of the body, which, reflected from organ to 
organ, as sounds are reverberated from rock to rock, deprive the 
mind of half its energy, philosophy of half its fortitude — and 
even reUgion of half its consolation ! 

In this way is engendered a host of disorders, for which the 
ingenuity of man would be puzzled to invent designations. They 
have been christened the " mimosa, or imitators," because they 
assume the form of every disease or disorder that has ever yet 
been described, and of many others that have had no history or 
description. It is not, however, strictly correct, to represent 
these mimosjc, or proteiform maladies, as always merely aping 
the forms and shapes of their predecessors. The truth is, that 
the disorders of our forefathers now take on novel characters, 
corresponding with modem manners and habits ; and thus, in con- 
junction with really new diseases, appear to demand a re- modelled 
nomenclature. 

The superior cultivation of intellect, now so eagerly aimed at, 
as the means of rising in the world — indeed of getting through 
it — renders the feelings more acute, the sympathies more active 
— the whole moral man, in short, more morbidly sensitive to 
moral impressions. These impressions are annually multiplying 
in number, and augmenting in intensity. The principal sources 
from whence they flow in a thousand streams, on suffering 
humanity, are these : — the fury of politics, the hazards and 
anxieties of commerce, the jealousies, envies, and rivalries of 
professions, the struggles and contentions of trade, the privations, 
discontents, and despair of poverty — to which might perhaps be 
added, the terrors of superstition, and the hatreds of sectarianism. 

K 2 



102 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

These, I have said, are the chief fountains of our moral ills — and 
these perturbations of the mind induce, directly or indirectly, 
nine-tenths of the disorders of the body. It indicates a high 
degree of intellectual culture in the time of Plato, and a very 
low ratio of physical causes of disease, when we find that philo- 
sopher ascribing " all disorders of the body to the soul" — 

•' Omnia corporis mala ab animo." 

The remark shews, at all events, that the Grecian sage was either 
a most observant physician, or a veritable prophet. If for "all" 
we substitute " most" disorders, the maxim of Plato is strictly 
true and applicable in these our own days. 

And here it may be both curious and useful to advert to a 
remarkable relation between the mental and corporeal functions 
of man, which has appeared to render the influence of the morale 
over the physique even more extended than it really is, in the 
production of diseases. It is this : — the moral affliction is very 
often only an accessary, or auxiliary to the physical cause in 
bringing forth maladies of the body. Thus, a man may be daily 
exposed, for weeks or months — perhaps for years, to the conta- 
gion of typhus fever — to marsh miasma or malaria — to the poison 
of scarlatina or erysipelas diiFused in the air — or to that inscru- 
table agent which produces cholera, with perfect impunity, his 
mind being easy and tranquil. But let a mental affliction occur, 
and immediately the morbific poison which had lain dormant in 
the constitution, or, at aU events, was unable to develop itself, 
bursts forth and displays its specific eff^ects— the moral tribulation 
appearing to be the direct or immediate cause of the bodily dis- 
order. This remarkable and well-known fact shews, not only 
how anxiety or trouble of mind lays the human frame more opwi 
to the operation of purely physical agents of a deleterious kind, 
but also how tranquiUity or serenity of mind wiU render the said 
agents almost innocuous. 

I could fiU a volume with the individual examples of this kind 
wliich I have personally observed, and am daily witnessing ; but 
I shall only adduce a few illustrations drawn from large masses or 
classes of men, and which I have had opportunities of noting in 



SOURCES OF MODERN MALADIES. 103 

various parts of the world. One of the most recent and melan- 
choly instances occurred in the fatal expedition to Walcheren. 
While our troops and seamen were actively engaged in the siege 
and bombardment of Flushing, exposed to intense heat, heavy 
rains, and poisonous exhalations from a malarious soil, inundated 
by the turbid waters of the Scheldt, scarcely a man was on the 
sick-list ; — the excitement of warfare, the prospect of victory, and 
the expectation of booty, completely fortifying the body against 
all the physical causes of disease that environed the camp and the 
fleet. I verily believe that, even after the fatal delay before 
Flushing, if we had pushed on for Antwerp, and captured the 
fleet, the armament would have returned in health, to the British 
shores, and the fever of Walcheren would scarcely have been re- 
corded. But when culpable mismanagement was crowned with 
irretrievable failure of the expedition — and still worse, when the 
dispirited troops were kept penned up inactive on the sickly and 
monotonous plains of Walcheren and Beveland, then, indeed, the 
pestilent miasmata, which our men had been breathing for weeks, 
with impunity, burst, like a volcano over their devoted heads, and 
either swept them, in thousands, to an inglorious grave, or harassed 
them, for years, with all the tortures which the " fiend of the fens " 
is so well qualified to inflict ! 

To whatever point of the compass we turn, we see striking 
examples of a similar kind. Edam, on the coast of Java, was a 
memorable and melancholy prototype of Walcheren, at the 
mouth of the Scheldt. After the failure of attack on Batavia, the 
Isle of Edam was the grave of our troops and tars. Looking 
westward, who does not remember " Hosier's Ghost," and the 
ghosts of hundreds and thousands of our countrymen ! — More 
recently, the waters of the Mississippi were tainted by the corses of 
our soldiers and sailors, after the repulse from New Orleans !* 

* The late disastrous retreat of our array from Cabul offers a terrific 
illustration how the physical energies of men may be paralyzed by moral 
depression. Had our troops stood their ground or acted on the offensive, 
they would have been victorious ; but, when the imbecility of their com- 
manders deprived the soldiers of confidence, then hope, and even courage 
fled, and the grand tragedy was enacted 1 — Note to Ath Edition. 



104 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

Our naval history furnishes numerous examples. Two ships sail 
for the East Indies, for instance, under nearly similar circum- 
stances. The one is successful in prizes, and arrives at her des- 
tination, without any sickness. The other makes no captures — 
the crew become dispirited — and scurvy, dysentery, or fever, makes 
destructive ravages. Of this fact, I could adduce, and have ad- 
duced, striking illustrations and proofs in another place.* 

But knowledge the most precious is sometimes gleaned from 
calamities the most appalling. Public disasters, of national in- 
terest at the time, have developed a principle, which may be 
beneficially adopted in the various afflictions of private life. It 
is wonderful that this principle, so clearly revealed, on many 
melancholy and momentous occasions, should be so little appre- 
ciated, and so seldom applied practically to the exigencies of life. 
The principle is simply this : — that, in all moral afflictions, vigo- 
rous exertion of the corporeal powers is the very best antidote to 
the baleful effects of the depressing passions of the mind ; while, 
on the other hand, the deleterious consequences of the moral evil 
are exasperated ten-fold by inertness of the body. This latter 
part of the principle has been sufficiently illustrated by the de- 
plorable instances of Walcheren, Batavia, &c. I could adduce 
numerous examples from private life ; but that is unnecessary. 
The first, and most important part of the principle deserves some 
illustration in detail. 

One of the earliest and most memorable illustrations will be 
found in the celebrated retreat of the " ten thousand Greeks," 
under Xenophon and Cheirisophus, after the fall of Cyrus on the 
plains of Cunaxa. This band of auxiharies were left without 
commanders, money, or provisions, to traverse a space of twelve 
hundred leagues, under constant alarms from the attacks of barba- 
rous and successive swarms of enemies. They had to cross rapid 
rivers, penetrate gloomy forests, drag their weary way over vast 
and burning deserts, scale the summits of rugged mountains, and 
wade through deep snows and pestilent morasses, in continual 
danger of death, or capture, which was far worse than death ! 

* " Influence of Tropical Climates on European Constitutions." — 6<A Ed. 



SALUTARY RFPECT8 OF CORPOREAL EXERTION. 105 

This retreat is nearly unparalleled, in the annals of war, for diffi- 
culties and perils ; but has been surpassed in disasters, within the 
present century. The Greek army had infinitely greater cause 
for mental despondency, when they saw their generals butchered 
by the treacherous Tissaphemes, and themselves surroimded by 
ruthless foes, two or three thousand miles from any friendly 
country, than any army since that period. It is not a little re- 
markable that, in the first stupor of misfortune by which they 
were overwhelmed, and nearly captured, Xenophon discerned and 
broached the very principle of conservative hygiene (I allude not 
to modem political designations) for which I am here contending. 
In his address to some of his companions, in the fearful night that 
succeeded the murder of Clearchiis and the other leaders of the 
phalanx, he says : — " The soldiers have, at present, nothing before 
their eyes but misfortune; if any one can turn their thoughts 
INTO ACTION, it would greatly encourage them." Here is the very 
principle itself, happily conceived, and most promptly acted on, 
by the young Athenian General. He tried, and with success, to 
convert the torpor of despair into the energy of desperation — 
urging the men to prefer death in the sanguinary, but brief and 
almost painless conflict with the enemy, personally and collectively, 
to the protracted tortures that would be the inevitable consequence 
of captivity ! Then it was that the tents were burnt, the carriages 
destroyed, the sumpter-horses slaughtered, and every unnecessary 
incumbrance, besides " the soldier and his sword," abandoned. 

During 215 days of almost uninterrupted, and toilsome march 
— often between two enemies, and engaged in front and rear at 
the same moment, the army lost an uncertain, but not a great 
number of men — partly by the darts and arrows of the barbarians 
— partly by desertion — partly by drowning in the rivers, or sinking 
in the morasses — partly by perishing in the snows of the Armenian 
mountains — but not one by sickness ! Xenophon is often very 
minute in his statements of losses, even describing the indi\'idual 
cases, the names of these individuals, and the parts of the body 
wounded. Only two instances of sickness are put on record : — 
one, a sort of Bulimia, or canine appetite, produced by the cold 
of the snow, which was observed in a considerable number of men. 



106 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

but did not prove fatal. The other, was an illness of twenty-fotir 
hours, which was general throughout the army, in consequence of 
indulgence in a kind of honey-comb, which they found at one 
place, in Armenia, in great abundance. It produced vomiting and 
purging, among those who ate freely ; but a kind of drunken 
delirium in those who ate little.* He also describes very minutely, 
the almost unconquerable disposition to sleep, produced by the 
frigidity of the snows on the mountains near the sources of the 
Tigris. The army was in great jeopardy from this cause, for 
some days, and the soldiers could hardly be induced to continue 
their march. Many of the rear-guard lay down, and preferred 
dying or being captured by the enemy, to perseverance against 
the lethargic sleep that overpowered them. Xenophon was obliged 
to halt, and repulse the enemy, to prevent these men from falling 
victims to the cold or to the barbarians. 

The number of the Grreeks, at the commencement of this 
memorable retreat, is not stated ; but estimating it at the full 
complement of ten thousand, it is clear that they could not 
have lost above 500 men, at the utmost, since they mustered, in 
the very last battle which they had (and in which they experienced 
hardly any loss), nine thousand five hundred troops, not including 
women and slaves ! — They never abandoned a single individual ; 
and they had no means of carrying sick men along with them, if 
any considerable number existed. The fact is, therefore, clearly 
established, that no sickness, in the common acceptation of the 
word, occurred in this series of sufferings and privations. 

Now, I am very far from insisting that this astonishing im- 
munity from sickness was solely attributable to the constant 
activity of the body. There can be no doubt that the perpetual 
excitement of the mind — gloomy and depressing as it often was, 
but checquered, as it occasionally must have been, by gleams of 

* I was informed by my talented friend Sir Charles Bagot (now I fear in a 
dangerous state, 20th May 1 843) , that, after a breakfast among the mountains 
of Virginia, in which be ate rather freely of honey, he experienced a kind of 
inebriation, from which he did not get free till after severe sickness. This 
resulted from some property of the honey derived from the nutriment of 
the bees. 



8ALUTART EFFECTS OF CORFOREAL EXERTIOX. 107 

hope breaking through the dense clouds of despondency — con- 
tributed, in no mean degree, to preserve the health and the lives 
of the troops. But I am convinced that, without the corporeal 
activity — the perpetual exposure to all the vicissitudes of climate, 
in the open air — the necessary temperance, which they were forced 
to observe — the ten thousand Greeks would have experienced 
a very different fate. This, I think, is proved by numerous modern 
instances. I shall only allude to one — the Austrians pent up in 
Mantua, where they lost double the number of the French who 
besieged them, though these last were far more exposed to the 
poisonous miasmata of the marshes than those within the ramparts. 
But despondency and inactivity prevailed among the one class of 
troops ; — exhilaration and activity among the other. 

When I said that the difficulties and perils of the " ten thousand 
Greeks" were nearly unparalleled, I had in mind the case of our 
own coimtrymen — the unfortunate associates of Byron — who 
experienced perils, toils, and privations, infinitely greater than 
those which befel the Macedonian phalanx. The Greeks marched 
through hostile, but populous and fertile countries. Xenophon hsis 
related no instance of sufferings from hunger in the Greek army, 
during the retreat. Byron's men were frequently reduced to the 
dire necessity of eating grass — and many died from sheer starvation ! 
Often were they so situated, that the faintest ray of hope could 
hardly have dawned on the horizon of >;heir desperate prospects ! 

" And such thy strength-inspiring aid that bore 
The hardy Byron to his native shore — 
In horrid climes, where Chiloe's tempests sweep 
Tumultuous murmurs o'er the troubled deep, 
'Ti»?as his to mourn Misfortune's rudest shock. 
Scourged by the winds, and cradled on the rock — 
To wake each joyless morn, and search again 
The famished haunts of solitary men ; 
Whose race, unyielding as their native storm, 
Knows not a trace of Nature but the form ; — • 
Yet at thy call, the hardy Tar pursued, 
Pale, but intrepid — sad, but unsubdued — 
Pierced the deep woods, and hailing from afar, 
The moon's pale planet, and the northern star. 
Paused at each dreary cry, unheard before. 
Hyenas in the wild, and mermaids on the shore !" 



108 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

Campbell has here made his favourite, Hope, the guardian 
angel of our unfortunate countrymen ; and far am I from wishing 
to deny or diminish the influence of that exhilarating and never- 
dying passion of the human breast. But I am convinced that 
Byron and his associates owed their preservation (those few who 
survived) mainly to incessant exercise of body and vigilance of mind. 
After a certain duration, indeed, of their miseries and toils, they 
became so careless of life, and so completely bereft of hope, that 
four of them were left to starve and die on that horrid coast, 
without the slightest symptom of reluctance on their part ! The 
boat would not hold them all — and four marines remained, 
cheering their companions when shoving off from the shore ! The 
boat, some time afterwards, was forced back, but the poor marines 
were nowhere found ! Although nine-tenths of the original crew 
appear to have perished by drowning or starvation, Byron makes 
no mention of sickness, during any period of the long and un- 
paralleled series of sufferings to which this ill-fated ship's com- 
pany was doomed. 

The memorable and disastrous retreat of Sir John Mooke 
through the mountains of Spain, furnishes another illustration 
of the principle in question. When all hope of success had 
vanished — when all discipline was at an end — when the daily 
routine of toil, hunger, and cold, was only varied and reheved 
by conflicts with an overpowering and pursuing enemy — when 
drunkenness too often added desperation to valour — there was 
little or no sickness in the harassed and dispirited army ! Even 
at the water's edge, and when Napoleon's order to " drive the 
leopard into the sea," was being put into execution — the hastUy 
and half-formed phalanx of march-worn, famine- wasted warriors, 
repulsed the legions of the imperial conqueror, as the columnar 
ranges of Stafia hurl back, in foam, the surges of the Atlantic. 
But, when danger was over and safety secured — when activity 
of body and excitement of mind were changed for repose and 
comfort — then did disease break forth with terrible malignity, 
and thousands perished ingloriously in our hospitals, after 
narrow escapes by flood and field — and after vanquishing the 
enemy, by which they had been closely pursued and dreadfully 
harassed. 



8AI.VTABT EFFECTS OF CORPOREAL EXERTION. 109 

The salvation from shipwreck by means of boats, though often 
of the most terrible and almost miraculous kind, do not so well 
illustrate the principle in question, as toilsome marches on shore 
— because there is not that exercise of the body, in the former, 
as in the latter case. Yet the vigilance necessary in escapes from 
shipwreck, combined with the exercise of rowing and managing 
the sails, keep the body in a state of health, that could never have 
been anticipated under such circumstances. A part of the crew 
of the Bounty, under Capt. Bligh, went through most wonderful 
scenes of suffering, as well as danger, with almost entire immu- 
nity from sickness. Dr. Wilson, of the Royal Navy, has recently 
published a narrative, little inferior in interest to that of the 
Bounty. The vessel in which he was embarked was wrecked on 
a coral reef in the Indian Ocean, and the crew escaped in two 
fragile boats, which traversed a distance of nearly a thousand 
miles, exposed to the elements — and often to savages more dan- 
gerous than storms and seas — without the loss of a man — and 
even without sickness — though they were so reduced by hunger 
and fatigue, that their friends hardly knew them when they got 
to a friendly port. 

The last event to which I shall allude, is the disastrous retreat 
of the French from Moscow. This was a catastrophe so terrific, 
that I fear to approach it, and doubt how to handle it ! It looks 
more like a visitation of Divine displeasure on a guilty nation, than 
the common result of moral and physical causes, even on the 
largest scale of operation. Think of more than thirty times 
the amount of the whole Grecian army, under Xenophon, cut off 
— utterly annihilated — in one-fifth part of the time occupied by 
the Macedonian retreat — and, apparently, under far less diffi- 
culties ! More than three hundred thousand men were destroyed 
in the retreat from Moscow — while the Grecians lost not more 
than five hundred between the Tigris and Trebizond ! The snows 
of Russia were not more impassable than those of Caucasus ; and 
the soldiers of Napoleon were surely more accustomed to frigid 
skies than the troops of Xenophon. But order and discipline were 
preserved in the Grecian ranks, while disorder and insubordination 
prevailed to a frightful extent in those of the Gaul. Under these 



110 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

last circumstances, and in dire conflict with the elements, the 
piercing blast swept down their tottering columns, as the autumnal 
tempest scatters the withered leaves of the deciduous forest. In 
this terrific scene, the destroying angel was not accompanied by 
his usual ghastly attendant — sickness. Those whom the sword 
and the elements spared, were exempted from all common maladies 
till they reached an asylum. There, in safety and at ease, when 
reflection on the dreadful catastrophe in the army was aided in its 
deleterious influence on the mind, by inactivity of body, the most 
frightful and extraordinary diseases burst forth, and a majority of 
this ill-fated remnant only escaped one form of death, to be cut 
off by others more lingering and painful !* 

Were it not that historical records have more weight and 
authenticity than private statements, I would adduce some re- 
markable illustrations of the principle in question, from my indi- 
vidual observation ; but I think it is unnecessary. The practical 
application of this principle to a variety of exigencies, of daily 
and hourly occurrence, is what I most strenuously urge on the 
notice of all classes of readers. Disorders of the body, in these 
days, are engendered and propagated, to a most frightful extent, 
by moral commotions and anxieties of the mind, as will be shewn 
farther on ; and if I have proved that corporeal exertion, especially 
when aided by any intellectual excitement or pursuit, can obviate 
the evils that ensue to soul and body from these causes, I shall do 
some service to the community. The principle in question is 
neither Utopian nor of difljcult application. It is within the reach 
of high and low — rich and poor — the learned and the unlettered. 
Let moral ills overtake any of these, and he is in the high way to 
physical illness. To prevent the corporeal malady, and to dimi- 
nigh, as much as possible, the mental aifliction itself, the individual 
must tread in the steps — ^haud passibus sequis — of Xenophon 
and Byron. He must " keep the body active, and the stomach 
EMPTY." I can answer for the value of this precept. It prevents 
not the individual from throwing into the prescription as much 
philosophy, physic, and even theology, as he pleases. Of the last 

* The retreat from Cabul offers a small but melancholy parallel to the 
Napoleon retreat from Moscow. 



SALUTARY EFFECTS OF CORPOREAL EXERTION. Ill 

ingredient, it becomes not me to speak, even comparatively; but 
of the two other items, I can conscientiously own that they are 
as " dust in the balance," when weighed against the Gr-«co- 
Byroxian recipe which I have so strongly recommended. The 
poor man has not far to cast about in quest of the means for 
putting this principle into practice. Generally speaking, he adopts 
it, nolens volens ; and hence it is, that the most indigent suffer 
less from moral ills and misfortunes than those who are far re- 
moved from want. As man rises in rank and riches, he becomes 
deprived — or rather he deprives himself — not of the means, but 
of tlie* inclination to .embrace the protection which this principle 
holds out. Amongst the inferior orders of society, indolence and 
inebriety give a fearful impetus to the shock of misfortune, and 
soon induce a variety of corporeal disorders that curtail the range 
of life, and destroy the springs of happiness. And even in higher 
quarters, where we might expect better things, the mental afflic- 
tion, or the moral adversity, appears to paralyze the energies of 
the soul, prostrate all firmness of resolve, and place in complete 
abeyance all fortitude and power of resistance against the over- 
whelming evil ! In such condition, it is no wonder that temporary 
solace is sought in wine and other deleterious stimulants, which 
only smother the flame, like coals heaped on a fire, to make the 
combustion more fierce and destructive afterwards. From these 
sources are derived many of those hypochondriacal miseries — 
—dyspeptic torments, and even intellectual aberrations, which we 
every day observe. The application of the counteracting principle 
in question must be left to individual ingenuity. Women have 
less facilities for putting it in practice than men, for obvious 
reasons ; but fortunately they bear dispensations, and vicissitudes, 
with much more fortitude than their boasted superiors — the 
stronger sex. 

It may appear paradoxical, but I am convinced it is true — 
namely, that it would be much better for some people to lose the 
whole of their fortune than half of it. The latter loss preys upon 
their minds and keeps them in a state of fretting, till their health 
is destroyed, and sometimes their reason impaired — because they 
have still enough of property left to keep them from actual want 



112 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

or manual labour. But if the whole of their means are swept 
away, then they are forced to seek some avocation or pursuit, 
which diverts the mind from the moral vicissitude, till the sting of 
adversity is blunted by the hand of time. There are some 
curious phenomena, which are explicable only on this principle of 
DERIVATION. Thus, the tortures of a painful surgical operation 
are greatly mitigated, by giving vent to the feehngs in loud 
wailings. So, also, a sudden and overwhelming affliction, as the 
loss of a parent, sister, or child, is rendered less hurtful by a burst 
of crying and a flood of tears. 

And here (though, perhaps, a little out of . place) I cannot help 
adverting to a topic on which I have often meditated with painful 
feelings — the ingratitude which woman experiences from man, 
but especially from her male progeny ! Had not the God of 
Nature added instinct to reason in the human female breast, the 
race would, long since, have become extinct. The pains, the 
penalties, the toils, the cares, the anxieties of a mother, are not 
repaid by any thing like an adequate degree of gratitude on the 
part of the offspring ! Nothing, indeed, can repay the female 
parent for what she undergoes on account of her children ; and 
boasted reason would sink under the task, or shrink from the 
duty, had not the Omniscient Creator infused into the mother's 
heart the irresistible instinct of the lioness, which prompts the 
savage animal to die in defence of its progeny ! — In the savage 
breast, the instinctive feeling soon ceases, and reason being absent, 
all sympathy between parent and progeny ceases also. Not so 
with the human female parent. The primary instinct is never 
entirely obliterated ; but, cherished through life by the nobler gift 
of REASON, the ties of Nature, between mother and child, are 
infinitely stronger than between the father and offspring. It is 
strange that the ancient poets, when deifying so many meaner 
attributes of human nature, forgot maternal affection. They 
have cloathed in divinity the barbarous monster who slaughtered 
the children of Niobe, when they ought to have deified the 
parental agony which the mother felt, and which even the marble 
yet breathes forth ! Our own immortal poet, Campbell, has 
actually personified this same maternal love of offspring, in one 



INGHATITUDE TO MOTHERS. 113 

of the most beautiful forms under which he delineates his 
" Angel of Life" — his favourite hope. 

Lo ! at the couch were infant beauty sleeps, 
Her silent watch the mournful mother keeps ; 
And weaves a song of melancholy joy — 
" Sleep, image of thy father, sleep, my boy ; 
" Thy fame, thy worth, thy filial love, at last, 
" Shall soothe this aching heart for all the past — 
" With many a smile my solitude repay, 
" And chace the world's ungenerous scorn away." 

That it is the instinctive love of offspring, rather than the hope 
of a return of love and filial duties from the infant, which fills the 
mother's breast with the musings so beautifully described by the 
poet, I firmly believe. Indeed I think the poet himself has proved 
it ; for soon afterwards he breaks forth thus : — 

So speaks affection, ere the infant eye 
Can look regard, or brighten in reply. 

There is another train of reflections which the poet causes to 
pass through the mind of the mother, while gazing on the un- 
conscious babe, and which I believe to be more natural — certainly 
more subUme and disinterested, than that which he has already 
portrayed. 

And say, when summon'd from the world and thee, 
I lay my head beneath the willow tree. 
Wilt thtm, sweet mourner t at my stone appear. 
And soothe my parted spirit ling'ring near ? 
Oh ! wilt thou come, at ev'ning hour, to shed 
The tear of Memory o'er my narrow bed ; 
Breathe a deep sigh to winds that murmur low. 
And think on all my love and all my woe ? 

In that passage, there is a train of thought worthy of an im- 
mortal being, and, in itself, indicative of immortality I But what 
I maintain is this, that these and all other trains of reflection in 
the mind of the mother spring from the same grand source — the 
INSTINCTIVE LOVE OF OFFSPRING. This inherent passion is, 
indeed, sublimed by reason and religion ; and extends itself, in 

L 2 



114 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

the fonn of hope, beyond the grave, as the poet has beautifully 
shewn ; but whether the sentiment be sordid or sublime, its origin 
must be traced to humble animal instinct — if anything can be 
humble which emanates from the hand — nay, the design of our 
Creator. As the philo-progenitive passion is one of the very few 
instincts common to man and the inferior animals, the locality of 
its material organ or instrument is said to be more accurately 
ascertained by phrenologists than most other organs. It is much 
larger in the female than in the male, whether human or animal. 

When I say that the mother is treated with ingratitude, I speak 
comparatively. A mother cannot have sufficient gratitude from 
her children, because no return of filial affection can compensate 
for maternal suiFerings, love and anxiety. To the honor of human 
nature, however, it is but justice to state, that hardly any barbarity 
of manners or malignity of disposition can eradicate from the 
human breast that sense of obUgation which the offspring owes 
to the parent — and especially to the mother. The female heart is, 
indeed, the natural channel through which the current of parental 
love and filial affection runs with the strongest and steadiest 
course. A son may neglect or forget a mother — a daughter 



never 



Is there any reward for filial gratitude, and punishment for 
ingratitude, in this world ? It would probably be neither a safe 
nor an orthodox doctrine to maintain that all sins and crimes are 
punished in this probationary state ; yet I am much inclined to 
believe that very few of them escape retributive justice, sooner or 
later, in life. Many punishments are not visible to the world, 
though keenly felt by the individuals on whom they fall. As 
the silent and unseen worm corrodes the heart of the solid oak, 
so a guilty conscience consumes the heart of man, though the 
countenance may not indicate the gnawings of the worm wdthin ! 
Whenever we have an opportunity of tracing the consequences 
that flow from a breach of the laws of God or Nature, we find 
those consequences terminate in suffering, moral or physical — 
generally both. This being the case, we may very safely con- 
clude that such breaches always draw after them a penal infliction, 
whether that infliction be patent to the world or not. In respect 



PUNISHMENTS IN THIS WORLD. 115 

to filial ingratitude, it is to be remembered that, in the great 
majority of instances, the ingrate is destined to receive the punish- 
ment when, in turn, it becomes a parent. Then, and often not 
till then, it feels the debt of gratitude which it owed, but did not 
discharge, to the authors of its being ! The penalty is paid in 
unavailing sorrow and repentance too late ! Nor does filial affec- 
tion or gratitude go uiurewarded, even when not returned in the 
next generation. While memory remains, the consciousness of 
having done ovu- duty to those who watched over our helpless 
infancy, will smooth the downward journey of hfe, and sustain us 
under the neglect or ingratitude of our offspring. Let these 
considerations induce mankind to foster, even were it only for 
their own sake, the filial love and kindness which the God of 
Nature has implanted in his constitution, and which cannot be 
violated, without punishment in this world. With the con- 
sequences of the moral crime of fihal ingratitude, in a future state, 
it is for the divine to deal. I have seen enough to convince me 
that part, at least, of our moral and physical punishments is in- 
flicted on this side of the grave. And wisely, in my opinion, is it 
so ordained ! If rewards and penalties for moral good and evil 
were entirely postponed to a future stage of existence, virtue 
would flag, and vice would flourish in a frightful degree ! If sin 
did not taste of sorrow — if the infraction of human laws only 
incurred pain and suffering in the flesh, it is to be apprehended 
that our hopes and fears respecting that undiscovered country, 
whence traveller never returns, would lose much of their intensity. 
The Omniscient Creator foresaw this, and provided against it, by 
decreeing a foretaste of rewards and punishments that can neither 
be evaded nor misunderstood ! And wise has been this dis- 
pensation 1 With all the proofs before our eyes of retributive 
justice, the laws of God and Nature are often enough violated by 
headstrong man, under the impulse of his ungovernable passions ! 
What would be the case then, were there no sensible, tangible, 
and unequivocal demonstrations of divine laws, and providential 
penalties, dxiring our temporal existence ? The doctrine of future 
rewards and punishments would become a speculative philosophy, 
disregarded by the vulgar, and disbeUeved by the learned ? 



116 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

To those who have a deep, or even a moderate insight into the 
nature of man, it must be evident that human laws cannot check 
a tithe of human delinquencies. Many of the most heinous sins, 
they do not even pretend to prevent — but only to punish, and that 
when too late. Take, for example, suicide. No human law can 
prevent a man from cutting his throat, or swallowing poison ; 
though it inflicts a dastardly ignominy on the corpse (which 
human charity generally frustrates) — or visits the sin of the guilty 
dead on the innocent survivor.* 

It may be objected to the doctrine I am preaching, that all 
crimes cannot receive even a portion of punishment in this 
world — for instance suicide. It may be answered, that suicide 
is very seldom a crime, because it is generally committed during 
a paroxysm of insanity — in fact, it is usually the result of a cor- 
poreal malady to which the just and unjust are equally liable. 
But granting (which I willingly do) that self-destruction is some- 
times a cool and premeditated act, unconnected with mental 
alienation ; is it to be inferred that the dehnquent goes unpunished 
in this world ? He who comes to this conclusion has very little 
knowledge of human nature. The agonies experienced by a sane 
mind, before the desperate act of suicide is determined on or com- 
mitted, are equal to any that we can conceive in the day of final 
retribution ! An extensive field of observation, indeed, has con- 
vinced me that the amount of mental misery, antecedent to suicide, 
in the sane mind, is generally sufficient, of itself, to produce the 
final paroxysm of alienation, during which the horrid deed is con- 

* A man insures his life for ten, twenty, or thirty years, to secure a sum 
for his widow or children. But, in a fit of temporary insanity, he commits 
suicide — and his widow or children are punished by the forfeiture of the 
policy ! In such cases the " value of the policy" should be returned to the 
survivors — and some respectable Companies do so. I knew an instance, 
in the case of a clergyman at Kensington, who destroyed himself. The 
Crown Insurance Company returned the " value of the policy," an equitable 
composition calculated on fixed principles. 

But the Law is still more rigid — or rather unjust. If a man commits 
suicide, and the jury proriounce a verdict of " Felo-de-se," his property is 
forfeited to the Crown, and his children or widow left without support I ! — 
■ith Edition. 



PUNISHMENTS IN THIS WORLD. 117 

summated ! But self-destruction is only the extreme link of a 
long chain of actions, each of which is a ^ade of the same thing 
— a breach of some moral or physical liu\- of nature. Health is 
impaired, and life itself curtailed by a thout^and actions which are 
not considered criminal, or at least very sliglitly so, as compared 
with suicide. The sufferings preceding or accompanying the dire 
act, are with more difficulty ascertained, than on most other 
occasions, because the individual is no longer able to throw light 
on the subject ; but as, in every case where the attendant circum- 
stances can be investigated, we find perpetration and punishment 
as inseparable as substance and shadow, we may fairly conclude 
that the Divine Law reaches all grades and shades of guilt, even 
in this world, though human laws foil to visit a great proportion 
of evil doings. 

The same reasoning may apply to rewards as to punishments. 
Because virtue, and merit, and talent are not apparently rewarded 
on this globle, it does not follow that they are not really so. If 
the wicked man carries a hell in his bosom, the virtuous may and 
does maintain a heaven in his breast. Of all rewards, here or 
hereafter, happiness must be the greatest — and we have the 
authority of the great Ethic Bard, as well as daily experience, 
that— 

" Virtue alone is happiness below." 

Even the hope of reward in another world, based on conscious 
rectitude of conduct, and rehgious feelings, is in itself a reward 
beyond all estimation. It is an anchor in the storms of adversity 
— a consolation in the deepest distress into which man can sink 
in this world of care and suffering ! 



We have now brought man to the zenith of his mental and 
corporeal powers — to the highest arch — or rather to the two 
highest arches of the bridge of life, with the stream of time 
flowing silently under his feet; his hopes undiminished — his 
ambition in full activity — and his prospects unclouded by the 
slightest shadow of doubt or despondency. On the contrary, it is 



118 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

all couleur de rose ; for love has, as yet, experienced no reduction 
of temperature in the human breast, but warms and stimulates to 
every noble action ! It is not unnatural that the historian of the 
phases of human existence should instinctively halt in this elevated 
region of the journey, and contemplate the past, the present, and 
the future, with intense interest. 

Thus, with delight, we linger to survey 
The promised joy's of life's unmeasured way : — 
Thus, from afar, each dim discover'd scene, 
More pleasing seems than all the past hath been ; 
While every form that fancy can repair 
From dull oblivion, glows divinely there ! 

Yes ! when we reflect that, at every step from this spot, the 
horizon behind us grows more obscure, however slowly, while the 
pleasures of hope and the dreams of imagination become gradually 
less vivid, human nature may well be excused for the attempt to 
stay the march of inexorable Time, and, if possible, tarry, for a 
moment, on this highest point and brightest speck of existence, 
before passing the rubicon of life ! The " grand climacteric" 
ought to have been placed at 42 instead of 63. The former period 
we may, however, denominate the " climax of life." The path 
of man through the two meridism Septenniads — from 28 to 42 — 
bears some analogy to the apparent course of the sun at noon- day. 
For an hour before, and an hour after the meridian altitude, 
the naked eye cannot recognize the movement of the blazing 
orb : — the sextant only can determine whether he still ascends, 
or passes the zenith, and commences his downward journey. The 
gnomon of the dial alone can detect the otherwise imperceptible 
progress of the grand luminary, though his course is swifter than 
lightning and undeviating as fate ! It is so with man. "When, in 
the prime of life, the stream of time appears to flow past him, 
without moving him onwards — though doubtless those physical 
changes are even then at work, which afterwards display their 
eff'ects so conspicuously. Again ; as it is at the rising and setting 
of the sun, that the motion of the luminary is most sensible to 
the eye ; so it is in youth and old age, that the rise and fall of 
life is most remarkably perceptible. 



KNOWLEDGE. 119 



KNOWLEDGE. 



It is in the equatorial portion of the voyage or journey of life, 
that mein mounts the tree of knowledge ; and, from its various 
outspread branches, endeavours to extend the natural horizon of 
his vision, to catch glimpses of prospects that lie hidden from the 
eye at the foot of the tree, and which would almost seem to be 
designed by the Creator to remain for ever veiled from human 
scrutiny ! I might support this idea by Scripture. The fruit of 
the tree of knowledge was forbidden in the Grarden of Eden, and 
the first taste of it — 

" Brought Death into the world, and all our woe." 

But I will not insist on this authority, because such a procedure 
arrests all free enquiry. I am not aware that the punishment 
inflicted on our first parents for tasting the forbidden fruit, is 
extended to a repetition of the offence. None of our Divines, 
that I know of, consider the acquisition of knowledge as a crime 
at present. This, by the way, is rather remarkable. But as the 
state as well as the fate of man was changed by the fall, so, what 
was first a fault may now perhaps be a virtue. One thing is cer- 
tain, viz. that the tree of knowledge has continued, till very lately, 
to be cultivated only in gardens, and its fruits to be tasted only 
by a few of the curious. At no period of the world, and in no 
nation of the earth was this tree reared generally in field or forest. 
Among the Greeks and Romans, science and literature were con- 
fined to a very small portion of the population — and in the middle 
ages they may be said to have become extinct. The invention of 
the press generated the power of diffusing knowledge throughout 
every gradation of society ; but it was not till the present time, 
that this power has been put into active operation. We have no 
means, therefore, of judging by past experience, of the eff*ects 
which may result from a universal taste for knowledge and a 
general acquisition of that article which turned our first parents out 
of the Garden of Eden ! Hitherto it has been confined to certain 
classes of society, and those very small as compared with the 



120 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

community at large. The inferences which we draw from the 
effects of knowledge on small and isolated masses of mankind, 
must be ver}' imperfect, and may be erroneous, when applied to a 
general diffusion of knowledge ; yet these effects are the only 
data from which we can safely deduce any inference at aU. 

The following corollaries are the result of some reflection, and 
no inconsiderable observation. Some of them may be inconse- 
quential — for, in fact, the premises are far from being firmly 
established. 

I. Knowledge (including the whole circle of arts, science, and 

literature — every thing that is taught, and everything that 
is learnt by man), like wealth and power, begets the love of 
itself, and rapidly increases the thirst of accumulation. 

II. Knowledge being the parent of truth, as ignorance is the 

parent of error, these two powers must be in a state of 
perpetual antagonism; and, in proportion as the former 
(knowledge) becomes diffused, the strong holds of the latter 
(error) must be successively invaded and overthrown. 

III. But when we reflect on the countless multitudes, in every 
country, even the most enlightened, who are directly or indi- 
rectly interested in the perpetuation of error, whether in 
religion, politics, morals, legislation, customs, arts, commerce, 
arms — or science itself, we may calculate on a long and 
arduous struggle between knowledge and truth on one side, 
and ignorance and error on the other — a struggle that will 
not be terminated without many and dire collisions, not only 
of the morale, but also of the physique! Yet, however 
protracted the conflict, the final issue cannot be doubtful. 
There are now no unknown regions, whence myriads of 
barbarians can again issue forth to extinguish the lights of 
literature, and destroy the granaries of learning and the arts. 
Every year, day, hour, illumines some spot on the mental, 
as well as the material horizon, that had been shrouded in 
darkness since the Creation — and consequently narrows the 
boundaries of superstition, credulity, and prejudice. Every 
year removes a film from the mental optics of mankind, and 



KNOWLEDGE. 121 

shews them more clearly, the paths of truth, of justice — and 
of wisdom. 

IV. As the facilities of diffusing knowledge are daily multiplying, 
and as the avidity for information augments in a still greater 
ratio, no estimate can he formed, with any degree of pre- 
cision, how deeply knowledge may yet strike its roots 
through the lower orders of society. It is not probable, in- 
deed, that education, beyond its mere rudiments, can ever 
permeate the lowest orders of the community, for very ob- 
iious reasons. But this exception will make little difference 
in the final result. The lowest and most iUiterate class will 
always be led by those immediately above them — namely, the 
MIDDLE CLASS. This class, comprehending numerous or- 
ders, genera, and species, will, in this country, influence, if 
not guide, the moral, physical, and political machine of 
government, infinitely beyond what can be conceived in any 
other country in the world. In these Islands, the great mass 
of wealth is deposited in the middle classes — but so generally 
diffused as not, by its agglomeration, to check the stimulus 
to ambition, much less to industry. It will hardly be argued 
that native talent or capacity is confined to any particular 
class of society — or that it is likely to be deficient in the 
wealthy orders of the middle ranks. The diffusion of know- 
ledge, therefore, among these ranks, will generate and call 
forth such an amount of moral force as must operate on, if 
not direct the energies, physical and moral, of the nation. 

V. It is said, and truly, that " love levels all distinctions." 

Knowledge has a very strong tendency to produce the 
same effect. None but a wild enthusiast will imagine that 
an EQUALITY in intellect, learning, wealth, rank, or power, 
can ever obtain in this world. But men of very sober in- 
tellects and extensive observation of mankind, can easily 
conceive that a much nearer approach to equality than now 
exists, may yet take place. If this propinquity to an equi- 
librium should ever arrive, it will be through the agency of 
education — and its result — knowledge. 
It cannot be uninteresting just to glance at the probable way 



122 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

in which this moral revolution, hitherto conceived to be ideal, 
may be eflfected. 

Intellect can never be equalized by any human power. But 
it is, perhaps, more equal than the magnates of the earth are 
disposed to admit — and education will draw forth, and bring into 
the market, an immense supply which, at present, moulders in 
obscurity. Surmises of this kind may have been floating in the 
mind of Gray, when pacing the country churchyard. 

" Perhaps in this neglected spot is laid 

Some heart once pregnant with Celestial fire ; 
Hands that the rod of empire might have sway'd, 

Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre : 
But Knowledge to their eyes her ample page. 

Fraught with the spoils of Time, did ne'er unroll ; 
Chill Penury repressed their noble rage. 

And froze the genial current of the soul." 

But TALENT, though not created, is much improved by culture, 
as the physical constitution is fortified by exercise. Even Intel-r 
lect, then, wiU be much more equalized in a practical point of 
view, than at present, by the extension of education and the 
aggregate increase of knowledge. 

Leabj^ing. — It may be asked, why should not some men soar 
as far beyond their contemporaries in learning, when that leaniT 
ing is diffused, as when it was circumscribed? The question 
may be easily answered. The augmented nunjber of competitors 
will greatly equalize the claims of the candidates for literary or 
scientific fame. Suppose, out of a population of a million, there 
were not more than five himdred who had the means of culti- 
vating literature or science with advantage. It is probable that, 
under such circumstances, a dozen or two would be pre-eminent, 
and that one would outstrip all the others. But suppose that 
five thousand out of the million, had all the faciUties of distin-r 
guishing themselves. It is extremely probable that fifty, or even 
five hundred, would be so nearly on a par. that no one would 
rise over the rest — 

velut inter ignes 

Luna minores. 



WEALTH. 123 

We may have a literary monarch ; but we shall never have a 
monarch of literature. No. Letters will come back, in fact, 
to what they were originally in name — a Republic. The ten- 
dency to this state may be plainly recognized, even now, in vari- 
ous departments of learning and science. Let us instance the 
medical profession. We shall never again see a Harvey or a 
Hunter — a Baillie or a Cline — giants, who strode over the heads 
of their brethren of the day — monopolizers of fame or fortune — 
each a professional prophet, without a touch from whose magic 
wand, or golden caduceus, the spirits of the great could not, 
with dignity, descend to the shades below ! And why should we 
not have the race of these medical monarchs continued — these 
beacons — these colossi — these " rari nantes in giu-gite vasto ?" 
Because the diiFusion of education has called forth an aristocracy, 
or rather a democracy of information, from which it is difficult to 
select any that are very much elevated above those of the same 
zone in which they move. The same remark wiU apply, with 
more or less force, to other professions and classes of society. 
There is a greater equilibrium of information among them now 
than there ever was before — and this explains why the Augustan 
age of England appears to have vanished. It is not because 
knowledge has decreased, and the giants of literature and science 
have dwindled into dwarfs ; but because the pigmies have sprung 
up into men, and the giants no longer appear of colossal stature 
by comparison. Their individual importance diminishes in pro- 
portion as their aggregate number augments. This will be more 
and more apparent every year. 

Wealth. — ^That education and knowledge lead, directly or in- 
directly, to wealth, needs no argument to prove. It is true that 
many individuals, with scarcely the rudiments of knowledge, have 
amassed riches ; but it has been through low or mechanical avo- 
cations, where unwearied industry and rigid economy were the 
chief requisites. And even these individuals could never attain 
distinction, unless they acquired some degree of knowledge, during 
or subsequent to the realization of wealth. But what are these, 
when compared with those who have risen by knowledge and 



124 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

talent, from the lower ranks of life to fame and fortune ? The 
spread of knowledge, then, will annually pour into the field of 
competition, whether in divinity, law, physic, commerce, art, or 
science, such multitudes of candidates as will minutely divide, 
and greatly equalize the golden harvests. In the general scram- 
ble, many wiU catch something, though few wiU catch much. 
As in the case of knowledge itself, wealth will not only be in- 
creased in the aggregate, but distributed through wider circles of 
the community. No doubt it will still predominate in certain 
zones, but these will grow broader and broader — and they will 
present galaxies of the minor stars, rather than sparse emd widely- 
distant luminaries of the first magnitude. 

Even those mighty mounds of hereditary wealth, fortified, as 
they are supposed to be, by the impregnable ramparts of pride and 
primogeniture, will gradually diminish in size, and descend far be- 
low their present altitude. Every year will increase the difficulties 
of providing for the younger branches of noble families, by the 
pressure of competition and the rigour of political economy. In 
such cases, the ties of nature will prevail over the laws of man — 
and the huge ancestral dep6ts must disburse provision for the 
hungry descendants of ancient mansions. 

Rank. — It is very improbable that ranks and distinctions 
will be levelled by education and knowledge. On the contrary, 
they are likely to be multiplied. But all other kinds of rank and 
distinction except what are attained by talent, integrity, and 
learning, will be depreciated in estimation. Hereditary rank or 
title, without wealth, cannot maintain its ancient value, where 
education and knowledge prevail; and we have just seen that 
wealth itself will be more and more equalized as civilization 
advances. Even the circumstances alluded to, under the head 
of Wealth — the difficulties of providing for the junior offspring 
of the nobility — wiU tend, in some measure, to equalize rank, by 
annually detaching great numbers of the yoimger scions of the 
aristocracy from the higher zones, and compelling them to enter 
the arena of competition, in various professions and avocations, 
with more humble, but perhaps not less able candidates for 



BAKK. 125 

riches and reputation. Those great safety-valves — the army, 
navy, church, and state — through which the aristocratic redun- 
dancy used to escape so freely, and thus reheve the pressure on 
family finances, will henceforth be much narrowed by imperious 
economy and popular competition. In fine, wherever intelli- 
gence spreads deep and wide through a community, the power 
and privileges of the patrician will be abridged, and the fran- 
chise and influence of the plebeian wiU be enlarged. An auto- 
crat is a demi-god, or " something more," holding the des- 
tinies of his semi-civilized hordes, with power over life, limb, and 
property : the constitutional monarch is only the first magistrate 
of a nation, without the power to make or break any of those laws 
which he is sworn to maintain and administer. 

The foregoing are matters of demonstration rather than of 
speculation ; but still the question may be asked — what will be 
liie result of all this spread of education and knowledge, as 
respects the benefit or happiness of man ? Here we enter the 
region of imagination, for we have no real precedent in history 
to guide us. As I have observed before, there never has been 
anjrthing like a general diflFusion of education and information, 
moral, scientific, or political, in any nation, or at any period of 
the world. But we have some grounds for reasoning on the 
subject. We know that our Creator has given instinct to 
animals, which Umits them to their specific functions and ac- 
tions, during life, without the possibihty of their deviating to 
the right or to the left. The bee, the ant, and the beaver, con- 
structed their habitations vdth as much skill, ten thousand years 
ago, as at the present moment. But man has been endowed 
with reason, which enables him to improve — or, at all events, 
to alter his condition. Now, when we see such wisdom and 
goodness in the dispensations of Providence throughout the 
whole Creation, is it likely that God should have given man the 
faculty of increasing in knowledge, almost without limit, for 
other than beneficent purposes ? — I cannot beheve it. But there 
is no unmixed good in this world. The rains that fall from the 
heavens to fertilize the soil, often swell into torrents that leave 

M 2 



126 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

nothing but ruin in their track. The winds that purify the 
atmosphere and waft our commerce from shore to shore, not 
seldom acquire the fury of the hurricane, and scatter destruc- 
tion over earth and ocean. Notwithstanding all the benevolence 
and wisdom of the Almighty, as seen in his works, the great 
majority of animated beings, from the zoophite up to man, are 
not merely permitted, but destined to destroy their fellow- 
creatures, for the support of their own existence ! It is noti 
therefore, likely that such a boon as knowledge should be 
accorded to mankind, without a considerable alloy of evil.* All 
tendencies towards equality among mankind, beget discontent, 
jealousy, and insubordination, in a greater or less degree. It 
cannot well be otherwise, where there are numerous and almost 
imperceptible gradations in society. Where there are but two 
grades — the high and the low — the patrician and plebeian — 
there jealousy will not so much obtain. We eye with composure 
the rank and station of the monarch, the prince of the blood, or 
even the peer of the realm; but we envy — we almost hate, 
the gradation of rank immediately above us. The diffusion of 
knowledge will be the diffusion of an opinon — nay a conviction 
— that all men are naturally equal, and that talent, learning, and 
character, are the only just distinctions. In such case, it is 
clear that the artificial distinctions of hereditary rank and wealth 
will be regarded with jealousy and discontent — and that there 
will be a perpetual nisus, or endeavour to level distinctions not 
founded on proper claims. That this attempt will cause a per- 
petual and powerful struggle and counteraction on the part of 

• The Press is the great engine for the dissemination of knowledge — equal, 
perhaps superior, to the Schoolmaster — but it is a passive instrument, and 
may be worked, with equal power, for the distribution of evil as of good. 
When we calculate the amount of malignity in this world, as an active agent, 
and the extent of ignorance, as a passive recipient, we may well pause and 
meditate, before we strike the balance between the advantages and disadvan- 
tages of an unshackled and cheap press. That the latter will be ultimately 
beneficial to mankind, I have no doubt ; but if it be not fraught with con- 
siderable evil, at first, this kingdom will be very fortunate. 



FINAL RESULTS OF KNOWLEDGE. 127 

the privileged Orders (as they have been denominated,) is most 
certain ; and this contest will last — for ever ; We may hope, 
and even believe, that it will be all for the benefit of mankind ; 
but, whether it be for good or for evil, it is inevitable ! We may 
as well attempt to hurl back the stream of the Nile to the Nubian 
Mountains — the Rhine to the Rhoetian Alps — or the Granges to 
the Hymalayas, as to stem the torrent of Knowledge, and turn it 
back into the stagnant lake of Ignorance. 



128 ECONOMY OP HEALTH. 

SEVENTH 8EPTENNIAD. 

[42 to 49 years.'] 

Seven times Seven ! Awful multiple ! This is the crisis of 
human existence ; for, however we may conceal it firom others, 
or even from ourselves, the decline of life commences with the 
Seventh Septenniad. At that period, the tide of existence has 
swelled to its utmost volume, and its last and highest wave has 
left its mark on the craggy rock and the golden sands. It is 
true that, while contemplating the ocean, for some time after the 
ebb-tide has commenced, we do not remark the subsidence of 
the waters — unless we watch the shores from which they recede. 
There we will perceive indubitable proofs of the turn of the 
tide. So it is with human life. For some time after the 
meridian of manhood, we recognize not the decadence of the 
stream — until we reluctantly and sorrowfully remark certain 
changes for the worse, in our corporeal — perhaps also in our 
mental powers ! There are, even in this early period of declen- 
sion from the meridian, certain admonitory phenomena that 
cannot be wholly overlooked by the most thoughtless individual. 
A grey hair wiU obtrude its unwelcome presence — and, if plucked 
out, will return soon, with half-a-dozen companions ! Pleasiu-es 
of all kinds, but especially of a material nature, begin to lose 
something of their exquisite relish, and are succeeded by some- 
thing more than mere satiety. Bodily exertions begin to be, not 
only curtailed in their range or amount, but the period of recruit 
becomes proportionally extended. Impressions on mind and body 
are less vivid. Our wine excites us less, and even the deUghts of 
conviviality and intellectual intercourse experience a diminution 
of intensity ! 

It is in the Seventh Septenniad, too, that the three master- 
passions of the soul, LOVE, ambition, and avarice^— come nearer 
to an equipoise than at any other epoch. These passions are 
never, indeed, exactly equi-potent. One is always more powerful 



PATHO-PROTBIAN MALADY. 129 

than either of the other two — sometimes stronger than both 
together. Thus, in youth, love predominates — in manhood, 
AMBITION — in age, avarice. Still, it is in the Seventh Septen- 
niad that the antagonism of the three passions comes nearest to 
an BQUiLiBEiuM. Ambition has, generally, the mastery. Love 
has lost much of his influence — and Avarice, under various 
masks, as domestic economy, desire of providing for a young 
family, &c. &c. begins to pull against the other passions, with 
augmenting force and confidence. Having once gained strength, 
this passion never quits the field till he overcomes, and finally 
extinguishes, one or both of his antagonists ! 

It is towards the close of this Septenniad, also, that the grand 
climacteric of woman takes place. Forty-nine is an impor- 
tant epoch in female life — an eventful crisis, which often turns 
the balance between weal and woe — ^betwixt steady health and 
dangerous disease ! K woman passes this period unscathed, she 
stands a good chance of a serene and quiet descent along the 
slope of existence into the vale of years, where the last debt of 
Nature is to be paid ! But it behoves her to be on her guard 
during the whole of the Seventh Septenniad, and not to allow 
fashionable dissipation, late hours, and gossamer dress, to render 
her grand climacteric the unfavourable crisis of her fate. 



PATHO-PROTEIAN MALADY. 

It is in the course of the present Septenniad— often sooner — 
sometimes later — that mankind (including both sexes equally,) 
of modem times, get introduced to a sinister acquaintance, that 
embitters many, if not most of the remaining years of their 
lives. It is a monster-malady of comparatively recent origin. 
No name, no description of it, is found in the records of anti- 
quity — or even of the middle ages. It is clearly the offspring 
of civiUzation and refinement— of sedentary habits and intellec- 
tual culture — of physical deterioration and mental perturbation 
— of excitement and exhaustion — of the friction (if I am allowed 
such a term) of mind on matter, and of matter on mind ! It is 



130 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

not the progeny of intempekance, for our forefathers were more 
intemperate than we are. It is not the product of effeminacy, 
as far as indulgence in pleasure or idleness is concerned — for the 
present race is more worn down by labour and care, than by 
ease and dissipation. Though millions have felt it, no one can 
describe it — though thousands have studied it, no one has been 
able to frame for it an accurate definition. And no wonder. 
It is a Proteus which assumes the form, and usurps the attri- 
butes of almost every malady, mental and corporeal, that has 
scourged the human race since the creation of the world ! But 
this is not all. It disdains the character of being merely an 
IMITATOR. It takes on shapes and attitudes that have no proto- 
types in human afflictions. Nor need this excite surprise. We 
have imported through the medium of our boundless colonization, 
the constitutions and maladies of the East and of the West, and 
incorporated them with those of our own. Every day and hour, 
the experienced eye can detect in the streets of London, the Hin- 
doo features, blanched by our skies of their ochery complexion — 
the Negro nose and lips, deprived, by the same agents, of their 
original companions, the -Ethiopian hue and woolly locks. These, 
however, would have been of little consequence, had we not im- 
ported with them, the bile and the belly-ache — the Hindostannee 
liver and the Caribbean spleen — the phlegm of the North and 
the choler of the South. In a country like this, where talent and 
industry — perhaps less estimable qualities also — are constantly 
forcing up the peasant and artisan into the baronetcy and the peer- 
age — and where money and mercenary motives are perpetually 
mingling the blood of the plebeian and patrician, we cannot 
wonder at the hybrid births of strange and anomalous disorders, 
totally unknown in former times. 

Tlie attempts to seize and imprison the fabled Proteus of old, 
were not more numerous or less successful, than those that have 
been made to trace the origin, ascertain the seat, and analyse the 
character of this Patho-Proteus, or multiform malady, of our 
own times. It has been attributed to the liver, the stomach, 
the spleen, the brain, the spinal-marrow, the nerves, the colon, 
&c. each physician drawing the Proteian fiend in the shape and 



PATHO-PROTEIAN MALADY. 131 

hue which it most frequently assumed under his own observance. 
Hence its various designations. Indigestion, hepatitis, dyspepsia, 
nervous irritability, bilious disorder, hypochondriasis, &c. &c. have, 
each in its turn, been the name affixed to the infirmity. It is 
not difficult to discover the clue to this diversity of designations. 
The Patho-Pbotbian affliction is not perhaps, in strict language, 
an ENTITY — a single disease sent down from Heaven, or springing 
from the bowels of the earth ; but rather a morbid constitution 
or disposition, produced by the various moral and physical causes 
above alluded to, and moulding numerous other maladies into its 
own semblance. Although the multitudinous causes of this evil 
must operate in a great variety of ways ; yet there are two prin- 
cipal channels through which it flows upon man and woman, 
much more frequently than through any others; — namely, the 
brain and the stomach — but chiefly the former. The moral im- 
pressions on the brain and nerves are infinitely more injurious 
than the physical impressions of food and drink, however im- 
proper, on the stomach. The multifarious relations of man with 
the world around him, in the present aera of social life, are such 
as must inevitably keep up a constant source of perturbation, if 
not irritation; and this trouble of mind is not solely, or even 
chiefly, expended on the organ of the mind — viz. the brain, and 
its appendages, the nerves — but upon the organs of the body 
most intimately associated with the brain — namely, the diges- 
tive ORGANS, including the stomach, liver, and bowels. 

Let us exempUfy this. A man receives a letter communicating 
a piece of astounding inteUigence — great loss of property, or death 
of a child, wife, or parent. The mind, the brain, the nervous 
system, are all agitated and disturbed. But the evil does not rest 
here. The organs not immediately imder the will, or directly 
connected with the intellectual portion of our frame — the organs 
of digestion, circulation, nutrition, &c. are all consecutively dis- 
turbed, and their functions disordered. These corporeal maladies 
are those which naturally attract most the suflferer's attention. 
He seldom comprehends, or even suspects, the nature and agency 
of the MORAL cause. He flies to physic — and it may very easily 
be conceived that he often flies to it in vain ! 



132 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

But it will probably be remarked that great events and dis- 
asters befall only a few, comparatively speaking — and those not 
often. This is true. But the multiplicity and frequency of minor 
evils are far more than equivalent to the intensity and rarity of 
the greater ones. Now those who are even moderately acquainted 
with the world, and with human nature, are well convinced that 
there is scarcely an individual, from the meanest mendicant, to 
the most absolute monarch, who does not dsdly, and almost hourly 
experience moral vexations, perturbations, or disquietudes of mind, 
which sooner or later disturb the functions of the body !* 

In what, then, does the morbid constitution or disposition, the 
parent of the Proteian malady, consist ? This is no unimportant 
inquiry. The nature of disorders may often be ascertained by 
the causes that produce them. These causes, in the present case, 
may be all, or nearly all, marshalled under four heads or repre- 
sentatives — anxiety of mind — intensity of thought — sedentary 
avocations, and plenary indulgence. The last but one includes, 
of course, deficiency of exercise. Now, although some of these, 
as intensity of thought, may improve the intellectual powers, they 
all, without exception, tend to weaken the body. But debility is 
the parent of irritability — and morbid or inordinate irritability, 
susceptibility, or sensibility, is the distinctive characteristic of the 
wide-spread malady under consideration. Thus, moral vicissi- 
tudes, troubles, or vexations, which, in a healthy and strong 
frame of mind and body, would make but a slight impression, 
will, imder the influence of the Patho-Pkoteian constitution, so 



* The French Revolution produced whole classes of diseases — especially 
those of the heart. These are now rapidly multiplying from the excitement 
of politics. Excitement is a word not sufiBciently expressive. The antipathy 
which exists now between people of different politics is such, that health is 
incompatible with its continuance. One half of the present violent and ultra 
politicians will assuredly die of disease of the heart, or of some great internal 
organ. Scarcely a day — or even an hour — passes without my seeing exem- 
plifications of this remark ! If the votaries of political ambition could see 
with me a few of the eflfects of that ambition — or even of that perturbation 
of mind attendant on nolitical struggles, they would fly, with dismay, from 
the baleful contest ! 



PATHO-PROTEIAN MALADY. 133 

ruffle the temper and agitate the soul, that every function of the 
human machine will be disordered. This results from the inordi- 
nate sensibility of the brain and nervous system generally. And 
although the great organs of digestion, nutrition, circulation, &c. 
are wisely removed from under the direct and immediate influence 
of mental perturbations from moral causes ; yet, unfortunately, 
they are destined to participate in the afflictions of their more in- 
tellectual associates, and suff^er most severely in the conflict ! 
They are thus rendered highly susceptible, by moral evils, to the 
impression of physical ones. 

The digestive organs are almost the only internal organs which 
are daily and hourly exposed to the direct contact and agency of 
external matters. The introduction of atmospheric air into the 
lungs is the chief exception — if it be one. Now when we try to 
enumerate the variety of materials drawn from the animal and 
vegetable world for pampering the appetite of man — especially in 
highly civilized life — we are lost and bewildered in the fruitless 
attempt. A single glance round the shelves of an Italian ware- 
house, in Piccadilly or the Strand, must compel any one to admit 
that the powers of the human stomach are prodigious ! The 
pickles and the preserves, the chillies and the condiments, the 
Scandinavian tongues and WestphaUan hams — but, above all, 
the sausages of Bologna and Germany, would, alone, poison the 
vulture, the shark, and the jackall. Or, if they did not kill direct 
these natural gourmands, they would, most assuredly, people the 
air, the ocean, and the wild woods, with as exquisite dyspeptics 
— perhaps hypochondriacs — as ever paced St. James's Street, 
or made the grand tour of Hyde-Park, under the influence of the 
BLUE devils. It may be true, that the stomachs of our ances- 
tors were stronger than the gizzard of an ostrich. But it is cer- 
tain that we, their degenerate off"spring, have no such powers of 
digestion. On the contrary, the vast majority of moderns, high 
and low, complain that they cannot digest even the plainest food, 
without great and daUy torment ! And how or why is this ? Be- 
cause the nerves of their digestive organs, participating in the 
general irritability, susceptibility, or sensibility of the whole ner- 
vous system, cannot bear the presence of food, which man and 

N 



134 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

ANIMALS, in a state of nature and strong health, can turn, with 
ease, into the blandest nutriment. 

It is well known to every physiologist that the great internal 
organs, the heart, liver, stomach, &c. perform their vital func- 
tions independent of the will, being supplied by the ganglionic 
nerves, a class entirely distinct from those emanating from the 
brain and spine, which are under the guidance of the mind. 
These ganglionic organs not only refuse to tell us how they per- 
form their operations in their hidden laboratories, but when they 
are at work. Thus, in a state of health, we have no conscious 
sensations from the vital functions of the circulation, respiration, 
digestion, assimilation, secretion, &c. The heart feels the pre- 
sence of the blood, but keeps that feeling to itself. The lungs 
feel the influence of atmospheric air, but gives the mind no inti- 
mation of such feeling. The stomach is alive to the presence of 
food, and performs the important task of digestion, but troubles 
not the intellect with any intimation of its proceedings. And so 
of all the other internal organs. This is a wise provision of 
Nature; or rather of Nature's God. But intercourse between 
the two systems of nerves — ^the nerves of sense and the nerves 
of the internal organs — is not absolutely prohibited. They mu- 
tually correspond, in a state of health, without our consciousness, 
and still more, without pain or inconvenience. But let us over- 
educate, as it were — that is, let us pamper the digestive organs, 
for example, by unnatural stimulation ; — or, let these said organs 
be long and strongly associated, in sympathy, with excitement of 
the intellect, and its organ, the brain — and what is the conse- 
quence ? The stomach becomes, as it were, intellectualized — that 
is, denaturalized ; so that its sensibility rises from the organic or 
unconscious, to the animal or conscious state of feeling ! Then 
it is that the process of digestion not only becomes cognizable to 
oxxr senses — but exceedingly painful. 

"When the stomach has thus acquired an additional sense — a 
sense properly appertaining to a superior organ, the organ of the 
mind — the owner of that stomach has incurred a penalty, which 
wUl require months or years for exoneration. He has over- 
educated an organ which would have performed its function much 



PATHO-PROTEIAN MALADT. 1S6 

better in its pristine ignorance. It is like the cook who studies 
transcendental chemistry — and spoils the soup — or the tailors of 
Laputa, who cut their coats on philosophical principles, and never 
made them to fit any of their customers. The stomach has tasted 
the fruit of the tree of knowledge, presented by the brain — and 
both parties are turned out of the Garden of Eden, to suffer 
for their transgressions during the remainder of their lives! 
Whether or not mutual recriminations took place between the 
fii^t participators in guilt, I will not pretend to say. Such re- 
criminations are the natmtd consequences of sin in our present 
state of existence. But, be that as it may, I can answer for this 
fact, that the stomach repays, with usurious interest, the injuries 
and sufferings which it has received from its contemporary and 
co-partner — the brain. 

When the malady in question has attained to a certain extent, 
the stomach not only reflects back on the organ of the mind, a 
large share of those afflictions which it had sustained from that 
quarter ; but in consequence of its extensive chain of sympathies 
with various other organs of its own class, as the liver, kidneys, 
bowels, heart — in short, the whole of those organs suppHed by 
the ganglionic nerves — it weaves a tissue of disorders which no 
human skill can unravel — it constructs a labyrintii of infirmities 
through which no clue can guide us — it fills an Augean stable 
with evils, which few rivers, except that of Lethe, can cleanse 
away! 

But the action and re-action of the organ of the mind and the 
great organs of the ganglionic system, one on another, are not 
the only hostilities carried on in this condition of the constitution. 
Let it be remembered that the whole of the alimentary canal, from 
one extremity to the other, is studded with myriads of glands, 
whose secretions are under the influence of the nerves distributed 
to them. Now each minute filament of nerve participates in the 
general disorder of the great nervous centres — and the secretions 
of the smallest follicle are thus vitiated, and become the prolific 
source of new irritations reflected back on the whole nervous 
system, and ultimately on the mind itself. 

When the morbid circle of association between the mental and 



136 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

corporeal organs and functions is once formed, it is extremely 
difficult to discover the starting-point of any one of the various 
maladies that present themselves, under such circumstances. For 
the sensations of body and mind springing from this source, there 
is no vocabulary. The patient is unable to describe them — the 
practitioner to understand them ; and thus a whole class of them 
has got the appellations of " vapours," " hypochondriasis," 
" maladies imaginaires," &c. Yet every one of them has its 
corporeal seat, however moral or intellectual may have been its 
origin. Even those that appear to be purely mental, as mono- 
mania, spectral illusions, and general insanity itself, are dependent 
on, or connec^ed with, some derangement of structure or function 
in the material fabric. I could prove this by numerous cases, but 
dare not lay open the secrets of the prison-house. One memo- 
rable case, however, which could not be concealed from the world, 
may here be adverted to, as an example. It is the case of the 
unfortunate gentleman who destroyed his life by prussic acid in 
Res-ent-street, on the 22d November, 1835, and whose death 
caused a strong sensation at the time. 

This gentleman (Mr. Mc Kerrell) had spent nearly thirty years 
in India — rose to a prominent station in the civil service of the 
Company — and realized an ample fortune. He returned to his 
native land, without much apparent injury of constitution, ex- 
pecting, no doubt, to crown a youth of toil with an age of 
enjoyment. But the d^mon of ambition crossed his path, and 
the REFORM BILL Opened a prospect which prudence or philosophy 
could not resist ! The British senate — that splendid meteor 
which has lured so many gallant barks into shoals and quicksands, 
drew this unfortunate victim from the enjo3nnent of competence, 
and the pursuit of health and happiness, into the vortex of a 
contested election. Paisley was to him what Pharsalia was 
to Pompey ! He went through fatigues of body and anxieties of 
mind that exhausted his strongest friends. But the issue was 
unsuccessful, and the event was tragical. From that time, the 
even tenor of his mind was lost, and his nervous system was un- 
poised. A strange illusion arose, and haunted his imagination 
evety second day. The secret struggled long in his breast — and 



REMARKABLB CASE OF MONOMANIA. 137 

was never revealed but to myself — and that under a promise of 
inviolable secrecy. The fabled horrors of heathen hells were 
trifles compared with the tortures which this poor wretch endured 
— and that without the smallest particle of moral guilt ! 

For some time, the illusion appeared to be a reahty — at least 
on the alternate days — but, afterwards, he became satisfied, on 
the good days, that it was a phantom, having no real existence 
but in a disordered imagination. Still later, he became sensible 
that he laboured, on alternate days, under monomania, or partial 
insanity — and this reflection added one more, and a very poignant, 
sting to his accumulated miseries ! 

His sufferings were of two kinds — bodily and mental. He 
awoke every second morning, under a pressure of horrible feelings, 
which he could neither account for, nor describe ! Common pain, 
though of the most excruciating kind, would have been gladly 
accepted in lieu of these terrible sensations. With these was 
associated the illusion, which never, for a moment, during the 
whole of that day, ceased to torture his imagination and blast his 
sight by its scowling form! The day was an age of agony. 
Night and sleep brought a temporary oblivion of his woes — and 
he awoke the next morning, free from the illusion, and com- 
paratively free from the indescribable morbid feelings of the body. 
But contemplation on the past, and anticipation of the future, 
rendered life but little desirable, though his religious and moral 
feelings always repudiated (so he alleged) the idea of suicide. 
The history of this case would furnish materials for a tragical 
romance, founded, in every particular, on fact — if the term romance 
could be properly applied to such a narrative. 

Worn out by mental horrors and corporeal miseries, this most 
pitiable gentleman put an end to his suff"erings, on the day of the 
illusion, by taking nearly two ounces of prussic acid. He left 
such unequivocal testimonies of a sound mind behind him, in the 
shape of written documents and oral communications, on the day 
of his decease, that a verdict of felo-de-se would have, assuredly, 
been pronounced by a Coroner's jury, had I not stepped fonsard 
and proved the infirmity of the deceased. I revealed not the 
nature of the illusion — the only point of secrecy enjoined by my 

N 2 



138 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

patient — but I preserved a property of seventy thousand pounds 
from sequestration, and warded off a moral and religious stigma 
from the memory of the dead. 

The examination of the body, after death, disclosed some of 
the most remarkable phenomena that were ever witnessed on 
dissection. The whole history and ■post-mortem inspection have 
been laid before the medical profession, through the proper 
channels. It may suffice to mention here, that there is a pair 
of nerves in the body (the par vagum) holding intercovu:se 
between the seat of intellect and the great involuntary organs 
of the chest and abdomen, viz. the heart, lungs, stomach, &c. 
Though it rises in the brain (the organ of the mind) it is dis- 
tributed to various internal organs that are not under our control. 
It is, therefore, a great intermediate agent of communication 
between the soul and the body — in other words, between mind 
and matter. On this nerve had formed a concretion, of stony 
hardness, with jagged points, as sharp as needles — growing and 
piercing into the substance of the nerve itself! — All the organs 
to which this most important nerve distributed its influence, were 
more or less diseased. The disorders of these organs, and of the 
nerve itself, had no doubt, re-acted on the brain, and thus pro- 
duced the illusion of the mind.* 

But it may be asked, why, if the causes were permanent, should 
the effects be periodical ? The case is remarkable, but by no 
means singular. There are many similitudes in medical science. 
The malaria of the fen is inhaled every day, yet produces an ague 
only every second day. It is the same with many other agents, 
as well as their disorders. 

But the chief reason for the introduction of this melancholy 
case is yet to be stated. All the organic changes, including the 
concretion . on the pneumo-gastric nerve, must have existed for 
many years — long before this gentleman returned to Europe, 
and yet without producing much inconvenience. At the Paisley 

* Had I time— or rather had I talent— I could construct a second Fran- 
kenstein from the history of this case — without any fiction — without any of 
the preposterous supernaturalities of that famous romance. 



REMQIOUS MONOMANIA. 139 

election he tired out some of his most powerful friends, in ex- 
cessive labour of body and mind ; consequently, his health could 
not have been much impaired at that time. But the moral causes 
had not then come into play, and the physical ones were in 
abeyance. No sooner, however, did ambition take possession 
of the mind, than the train was laid for the explosion of bodily, 
as well as mental disorder. Blighted hopes, disappointments, 
and losses, called into fatal activity diseases which might long 
have remained quiescent — and from the date of the unsuccessful 
contest, the tenor of the mind was broken — to be ultimately 
wrecked in suicide ! 

The present case, though an extraordinary one in some re- 
spects, is exceedingly common in others. Physical, that is, 
bodily disorders, are either called into existence, or into activity, 
by mental disquietude, so generally, that the rule becomes almost 
absolute. Re-action of the body on the mind is, no doubt, fre- 
quent ; but the body suffers more often from the mind, than the 
mind from the body. And when mind is afflicted by matter, it 
is generally where the corporeal frame has first suffered from 
mond miseries. 

Religious monomania may be ranked amongst the most dire 
afflictions of humanity. It is, according to my observation, more 
frequent in females than in males, and is not confined to any age. 
I have seen instances of it under the age of twenty-four years. 
We can generally trace it, especially in women, to the enthusiastic 
harangues — for they hardly deserve the name of sermons, — deli- 
vered by visionary, fanatic, and ultra-evangelical preachers. These 
personages, who take upon themselves to — 

" Deal damnation round the land," 

do more mischief than they are aware of. They too often 
represent the omnipotent and benevolent Deity — the Creator 
and maintainer of the Universe — as an inexorable judge, visiting 
the slightest foibles or failings of frail mortals, with everlasting 
punishment of the most horrible kind ! Upon the sensitive 
minds of weak females these fearful denunciations, ex cathedra, 
make a most powerful impression, and not seldom impair the 



140 BCONOMY OF HEALTH. 

seat of reason ! A nervous and sedentary female, for instance, 
fixes upon some real or imaginary delinquency of her life, and, 
by dweUing upon it soon magnifies it into an enormous sin — 
and ultimately into guilt of an impardonable character ! Then 
come — horrors, despair, and desperation — terrores magicos, por- 
tentaque Thessala ! She represents herself, even to her friends, 
as a REPROBATE vv^ho is placed beyond the pale of mercy, and 
condemned to everlasting tortures in the world to come ! This 
one consideration absorbs all others. No topic but this can 
engage her attention for a moment, and it is perfectly useless 
to reason with her, or attempt by arguments to divert her 
reflections from this doleful subject. This wretched state lapses 
generally into premeditations on suicide — too often into the fatal 
act itself! It is not a little curious that the individual, who 
fancies herself doomed to unutterable tortures and indescribable 
punishments after death, should yet desire the termination of 
existence, and even anticipate Nature by self-destruction ! It 
would seem, in these cases, that the mere contemplation of an 
imaginary evU was worse to bear than the real evil itself ! Hence 
the wretched monomaniac rushes on death, the consummation 
of his miseries, rather than live in perpetual apprehension of 
them ! — I have known a young lady starve herself to death from 
religious monomania — another fall into fatal atrophy — and a 
third take poison — aU under the firm conviction that their sins 
were unpardonable, and that they were doomed to eternal punish- 
ment ! There are many instances on record, where the mono- 
maniac lacks courage to commit suicide, or cannot make up the 
mind as to the means of accomplishing it : — under which circum- 
stances, they have committed capital crimes, with the view of 
being capitally punished. 

It behoves parents to ponder on the kind of religious instruction 
which their pastors impart to their chUdren — especially to sensi- 
tive females. It is not my wish or my province to trench on the 
confines of the metaphysician — much less of the divine ; but, as 
a physician, I may perhaps be permitted to express my conviction 
that religious discourses were not intended to excite and inflame 
the imagination, but to improve the judgment, control the 



AMBITION A CAUSE OF THE PATHO-PROTBU8. 141 

passions, and check the evil propensities of human nature — and all 
this by representing the Deity and the Redeemer as beneficent 
and merciful — not as stern and relentless judges of frail humanity ! 
Those extravagant and phrenzied harangues from the pulpit which 
throw the female auditory of the pews into hysterics or ecstacies, 
are conducive to any thing but happiness on earth — whatever may 
be their influence on our state or condition beyond the grave. 
Many are the instances which I have seen of their pernicious con- 
sequences on the health, the intellects, and the peace of mind of 
most amiable individuals here below. 

I have already observed that when religious monomania has 
seized the human mind, it is almost entirely useless to reason 
with the unhappy victim. The organ of the mind, or some other 
corporeal structure with which the brain sympathizes, has become 
disordered, and it is to that we must direct our attention chiefly. 
Moral means and soothing treatment combine with, and indeed 
are part and parcel of, the most rational and successful physical 
management of the insane, whether the mental derangement be 
partial or general.— But to return from this subject. 

Ambition then — that ardent desire, that incessant struggle to 
be, or to appear, greater than we are — or what others are, adds 
its powerful quota to the sum total of causes that produce the 
PATHO-Proteian scourge. Ambition is not bounded to any par- 
ticular rank, or confined to any particular classes, but pervades 
every ramification of society. It is not entirely extinguished in 
servitude or beggary ! I am inclined to think that it does not 
diminish, but rather that it increases, as we descend along the 
scale of rank and wealth — at least to a certain extent. 

The wife and daughters of the jolly butcher in Bond-street, 
have not less ambition to outshine, in chintz and china, the wife 
and daughters of their opposite neighbour, the cheesemonger, 
than have their aristocratic customers, in Grosvenor- square, to 
out-flank and rout their fashionable friends, in the columns of the 
Morning Post. 

In fine, throughout every link in the vast chain of society — 
from the court and the cabinet, down to the counter and the 
cottage — this worst species of ambition is to be found! It 



142 BCONOMY OF HEALTH. 

drugs the cup of enjoyment which is at our lips, infusing into it 
a thirst for that which is not in our possession. This thirst, it 
is true, carries with it its own immediate punishment — because 
few can have it slaked ; but the ulterior suiFerings entailed on the 
victims of ambition, are of a deeper die, and graver grade — the 
dire inflictions of the Proteian malady ! 

These, however, are evils of our own seeking or of our own 
creation. But, in the present state of civilization and refine- 
ment, there are hosts of others which we cannot or will not 
avoid. The cares of families — the difficulty of providing for our 
offspring — the heart-burnings occasioned by the waywardness of 
children — and the thousand anxieties which intrude themselves, 
independently of any misconduct on our own parts, are now 
multiplied to an incalculable extent, and have already introduced 
new and undescribed miseries and maladies, that are constantly 
on the increase. 

There are numerous causes of this modem scourge, which 
cannot well be classed under the heads of either the morale or 
the PHYSIQUE. They partake of both. Such, for instance, are 
the habits and pursuits of a people. In this country, commerce 
and manufactures preponderate over agriculture and pasturage 
— and therefore sedentary, predominate over active habits. The 
factory and the counting-house are not only more unhealthy, in 
a physical point of view, than the hUls and the vales, but they 
are much more detrimental to the moral constitution of man. 
The labour is thrown on the head and the hand — and that in bad 
air — rather than on the body and legs, under the canopy of 
Heaven. This difference contributes largely to the support of 
the Proteian malady — especially when aided by the competition 
of trade, the animosity of politics — and the rancour of religious 
bigotry. These and various other moral and physical agents 
have unfortunately increased since the termination of a long 
and sanguinary conflict with the common enemy, during which, 
internal dissentions were swallowed up in national enthusiasm, 
and redundancy of population was kept in check by the waste 
of war ! Peace, therefore, with all its blessings and comforts, 
is not without its alloy. Our gigantic struggles with foreign 



PLEASURES OF THE TABLE " FEAST OF REASON." 143 

foes, are now transmuted into fierce contentions between op- 
posing fections. Every evil passion is enlisted in this domestic 
strife. The forum, the bench, the hustings — nay, even the 
pulpit — pour forth, like volcanos, the destructive elements of 
discord, hatred, and animosity, among all ranks and classes of 
society ! Under these circumstances, is it wonderful that we 
should have new maladies, the products of new causes ? It 
would be wonderful if we had them not ! 

I have not attempted a description of the Patho-Photeian 
evil, because, as was stated before, it is not an entity in itseK, 
but rather a morbid state of constitution, which mixes itself up 
with almost every other disease, assuming its form — influencing 
its character — and modifying its treatment. This last is a purely 
medical subject — at least in detail — and is discussed by many 
authors as well as myself in the proper places. But I have 
pointed out the chief causes (moral and physical) of the evil ; 
and this may guide the individual to avoid them. The very 
specification of the causes of a malady suggests the chief remedies, 
or, at all events, the best means of avoiding it. 

The pith of nearly all that has been written on hygiene, or 
the prevention of diseases — and of the Proteian disorder among 
the rest, might be included under two heads — almost in two 
words — TEMPERANCE and EXERCISE, But temperance means 
much more than mere moderation in eating and drinking. It 
comprehends moderation in all our pleasures and enjoyments, 
mental and corporeal — it prescribes restraint on our passions — 
limitation of our desires — but, above all, coercion of our am- 
bition. 

Our physical wants, like the trade-winds, vary not materially, 
in direction or force ; not so the passions. They are the tempests 
of life, which too often set at defiance the sails and the rudder 
of reason — driving the vessel upon shoals or quicksands — and 
ultimately wrecking her altogether ! 

I am not trenching on the province of the divine, in these 
remarks. I allude only to the effects of the passions on health 
and happiness — and not on the concerns of the immortal soul. 
The heathen philosopher (Plato) may have carried the idea too 



144 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

far, when he traced all diseases of the body to the mind — but 
assuredly, as far as my observation goes — and it has not been very 
limited — a great majority of our corporeal disorders spring from, 
or are aggravated by, mental perturbations. This point cannot 
be too strongly urged, or too often repeated by the physician who 
treats of the prevention of diseases — and especially of the Patho- 
Proteus which has been here noticed. But, at the same time, 
it would be wrong to pass over the various miseries resulting from 
the " PLEASURES OF THE TABLE." The intellectual and sensual 
banquet has too many charms for soul and body, not to lead into 
almost daily excess, every class of society, from the savage to the 
sage ! Even here, the immaterial tenant seduces its material 
tenement into woful sufferings. "We hear a great deal indeed of 
" the feast of reason and the flow of soul ;" — but, for my own 
part, I have too often observed this intellectual festival to take 
place where — 

" Malignant Chemia scowls, 

And mingles poison with the nectar'd bowls." 

It is more curious than consolatory to scrutinize, with philo- 
sophic eye, the workings of turtle, champagne, and conviviality, 
on those finer faculties with which metaphysicians have invested 
the immortal principle of man. Without diving into these 
mysterious and perhaps dangerous investigations, I shall only 
remark that every faculty of the mind, as well as every function 
of the body, comes under the influence of the above-mentioned 
material agents, and in a manner that is well worthy of inves- 
tigation, in regard to the immediate subjects of this Essay — 

HEALTH and HAPPINESS. 

In this " FEAST of REASON," as it is called, which is generally 
accompanied by food of a grosser kind, we find the energies of 
the mind called forth — one would almost say, created — where 
they were previously dormant. Sallies of wit and humour — 
sentiments of noble philanthropy, exalted morality, and even 
fervent religion, spring forth at the festive board, which lay in 
abeyance till that hour ! It is then that friendship opens her 
heart — the miser his purse — bigotry widens the circle of its 
charity — the debtor forgets his creditor — the creditor forgives his 



PLEASURES OF THE TABLE — " FEAST OF REASON." 145 

debtor — the slave breathes the air of freedom — penury becomes 
possessed of temporary, or at least ideal wealth — and, stranger 
still, riches are invested with momentary happiness ! 

Are these remarkable phenomena of the mind unconnected 
with, or independent of, any corresponding phenomena in our 
physical organization ? Far from it ! Savoury viands and gene- 
rous wines stimulate the material organs, accelerate the circu- 
lation, and call forth the mere animal spirits, before they elicit 
the intellectual corruscations. And as excitement of the body 
produces excitement of the mind, so passions of the mind kindle 
up excitation in the corporeal fabric. On the stage and at the 
bar, passion is more frequently feigned than felt; but in the 
pulpit and the senate, religious fervour and political disputation 
will call forth the most violent agitation of the body througli 
the medium of the mind. Painting, poetry, music and oratory, 
cannot raise emotions in the mind, till they have first excited 
certain nerves of sense, and, tlirough them, the very brain itself 
— the organ or instrument of the mind. This is the grand con- 
sideration, as far as health and happiness are concerned. It 
establishes this important axiom — little understood or attended 
to by mankind at large — namely, that whenever the stream of 
life, whether moral or physical, mental or corporeal, is accele- 
rated in its course, beyond the normal or medium current, it 
must experience a corresponding retardation, in turn — and these 
inequalities in the speed of the stream must inevitably damage, 
sooner or later, the banks between which it is enclosed. There 
is not an axiom in physic or physiology more certain than this 
— that the even tenor of the stream prolongs life, preserves 
health, and maintains happiness ; while, on the other hand, the 
strong excitements, whether of body or mind, afford temporary 
enjoyment, at the expense of permanent sufferings. It is true, 
that the elasticity of youth and health renders the penalties of 
indulgence short at the beginning, and amply repaid by the 
pleasure of the feast, whether intellectual or corporeal. But the 
periods of enjoyment gradually shorten, while those of pain 
are protracted, till at length a balance is struck, that awakens 
the delinquent to a frightful survey of the real condition in 



146 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

which he is placed ! It is then, in general, too late to retrace 
our steps ! 

Now the besetting sin of the present generation is not that of 
intemperance in eating and drinking — but rather in that of 
reading and thinking. And why is this ? When the intellectual 
powers are much exerted, the physical powers, and more espe- 
cially the powers of the digestive organs, are weakened. Hence, 
we have neither the relish for gluttony and inebriation — nor 
have we the ability to bear their effects. Add to this, that the 
exercise of the rational faculties dissuades from intemperance, in- 
dependently of its withdrawing the power of indulging in it. 
In rude states of society, where the higher functions of the mind 
are but little employed, the sensual gratifications of the palate 
and stomach constitute the principal pleasures of Ufe — and the 
organs being strong, these pleasures are exquisitely enjoyed, and 
borne with comparative facility. The coal-heaver, on the banks 
of the Thames, whose brain is nearly as inert as the sable load 
under which his muscles crack, will drink ten or twelve quarts of 
porter, besides gin, in one day, and go home as sober as a judge 
at night. But let the judge himself, whose active brain absorbs 
all energy from his muscles, try this experiment ! 

Here then, is the true solution of the problem — the real causes 
why the present generation are more temperate than their an- 
cestors — namely, disrelish for, and inability to bear intemperance, 
as compared with those of the olden time . But the effects of in- 
temperance have not diminished in proportion. On the contrary, 
they have multiplied prodigiously. What was ultra-abstemious- 
ness a hundred years ago, would now be destructive excess. The 
habits and manners of the hardy Highlander in the days of 
WAVERiiY and the wassail bowl, would ill suit the natives of 
Glenco and Tobermorey in the present day. Tea, poUtics, and 
steam, have wonderfully impaired the digestive organs of the Celt 
and Sassenach laird since the days of Bradwardine and Tully- 
VEOLAN, though some of their descendants appear to have, even 
yet, their stomachs lined with copper, and proof against the fiery 
impressions of the most potent Glenlivet ! 

Thus, then, a nervous temperament — a morbid sensibility — 



SYMPATHETIC EFFECTS OF THE PATHO-P&OTBUS. 147 

pervades the whole frame of society, more or less — a supersensi- 
tiveness that inflicts pains and penalties on trifling and occasional 
indiscretions, which used formerly to be levied only upon habitual 
and excessive indulgence! There are many millions in this 
country, to whom food is physic, of the bitterest kind — and to 
whom physic is as daily indispensable as food ! To the luxurious 
epicure it may seem incredible that, within the boundaries of the 
British Isles, there are millions, among the opulent classes, who 
would give half their wealth to be able to do without food alto- 
gether — who would gladly give up the pleasure of eating, for an 
immunity from the misery of digesting. Incredible as this may 
seem, it is nevertheless, strictly true.* 

I -msh I could state, consistently with truth, that the punish- 
ment falls exclusively on the intemperate — that the gourmand is 
the only victim in the end, of indigestion, and all its indescrib- 
able horrors. But I am compelled to aver that this penalty falls 
far more frequently on the innocent than on the guilty — on those 
who labour with their heads for the good of society, rather than 
on those who consume the fruits of the earth in Ixxxury and idle- 
ness — on the unfortunate far more often than on the offender ! 

And now we have approached the den of the dragon — the 
favourite haunt of the Protkian fiend ; for, whatever may have 
been his origin, whether moral or physical, intellectual or cor- 
poreal — the stomach and digestive organs are selected as his 
head-quarters. There he sits, concealed, like the spider, weaving 
his web of mischief, forming his lines of communication, and 



* The sister of the celebrated Mrs. Siddons (Mrs. Whitlock) died under the 
care of the Author, from starvation, without its attendant suflferings of hun- 
ger and thirst. An aneurismal enlargement of a vessel in the brain, pressed 
upon the origins of two particular nerves — the eighth and ninth — those 
which give power to speech, swallowing, and digestion. The consequence 
was, an inability to speak, to swallow, and to digest. Fortunately the para- 
lysis of one of these nerves (the eighth) prevented the sense of hunger — and 
though this unfortunate lady lived five weeks after the failure of swallowing 
was complete, she suffered not from either hunger or thirst ! During all this 
lime, the faculties of the mind, and the other functions of the body were 
unaffected. She was 76 years of age. 



148 ECONOMY OF HEAI.TH. 

establishing his chains of painful sympathy between every tissue 
and structure of the human fabric ! If other maladies do not 
assail the constitution, the Proteian enemy is ever ready to assume 
their forms, and harass his victim with incessant alarms ; — if they 
do, he seldom fails to join as a powerful auxiliary, and add poig- 
nancy to every sting of the principal assailant ! The discrimina- 
tion between the real and the imitating malady is, in fact, the 
most difficult task of the physician. So accurately does the sym- 
pathetic affection enact the part of the idiopathic, that the most 
experienced — the most talented practitioner is very often de- 
ceived I* 

The Patho-Proteus will so closely imitate functional disor- 
ders, and even organic diseases of the heart, the brain, the lungs, 
and every other internal viscus in the body, that the young prac- 
titioner is often deceived, and the old puzzled. 

With many of the agents which have imposed this nervous 
temperament, this supersensitive character on our constitutions, 
in this age of civihzation and refinement, we are acquainted — and 
they have been already mentioned ; but with the manner in which 
they have effected this change — with their mode of operating — 
we know as little as we do of the modus operandi of gravity or 
magnetism. We recognize, too painfully, many of their effects— 
perhaps some of their laws. Thus, when this nervous tempera- 
ment is established, we find that food and drink, which ought to 
produce no sensation, or, if any, a pleasurable one, cause a sense 
of discomfort, or even of actual pain in the stomach. This fact 
at once proves, not only that the sensibility of the nerves of the 

* Hystkria is a form which the Patho-Proteos is very prone to assume 
in females of modern times ; and under this guise, will simulate almost every 
disease whether of internal or external parts. The celebrated Dupuytren, of 
Paris, was one day walking through the wards of a London hospital. His 
attention was attracted to the case of a young and pallid female, who had 
white-svv'elling of the knee, to which the nurse was applying leeches. He 
examined this patient, and pronounced that the white-swelling was hysteria, 
and that valerian and steel would be more beneficial than leeches and blisters. 
His diagnosis was fully verified by the event ! This remarkable species of 
simulation is well known to experienced practitioners. Sir B. Brodie and 
others have distinctly described it in tlieir writings and lectures. 



SYMPATHETIC BFFSCTS OF THE PATHO-PROTKUS. 149 

stomach is exalted, but that it is morbidly exalted. That the 
digestive powers of the stomach are also weakened, is demonstrated 
by two phenomena — first, that the digestive process is protracted 
as well as painful — and secondly, that it is imperfect also, as 
shewn by the food running into the acetous fermentation, which 
augments — perhaps often is the cause of, the uneasy or painful 
sensations which we experience. But if the distress occasioned 
by painful and protracted digestion were the only evil — and it is 
no trifling one — the sufferer would have great cause to be thank- 
ful. The nerves of the digestive organs sympathise so freely and 
so universally with the nerves of all other organs and parts of 
the body, that not a single structure or function of the human 
fabric escapes, at one time or other, from participation in the 
misery of the part first affected. And even this is not all. Cor- 
poreal pain is much more easily borne than mental anguish. The 
disorders of the body, and especially those of the digestive organs, 
very soon involve the functions of the mind — and then we have 
a train of phenomena still more inscrutable and agonizing ! The 
irritation resulting from food undigested in the stomach, or from 
the decompositions into which that food runs, induces the most 
surprising and afflictive symptoms to which humanity is subject. 
The following extract from a work which I published more than 
ten years ago, may be introduced here, in illustration of what I 
am stating. 

" In some cases, where this poisonous secretion lurks long in 
the upper bowels, the neires of which are so numerous and the 
sympathies so extensive, there is induced a state of mental des- 
pondency and perturbation which it is impossible to describe, 
and which no one can form a just idea of, but he who has felt it 
in person. The term ' blue devils' is not half expressive enough 
of this state ; and, if my excellent friend. Dr. Marshall Hall, 
meant to describe it under the head ' mimosis inquieta,' he never 
experienced it in propria person^ ! This poison acts in different 
ways on different individuals. In some, whose nervous systems 
are not very susceptible, it produces a violent fit of what is called 
bilious head-ache, with excruciating pains and spasms in the 
stomach and bowels, generally with vomiting or purging, which 



150 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

is often succeeded by a yellow suffusion in the eyes, or even on 
the skin. Severe as this paroxysm is, the patient may thank his 
stars that the poison vented its fury on the body instead of the 
mind. Where the intellectual faculties have been much harassed^ 
and the nervous system weakened and rendered irritable, the 
morbid secretion acts in that direction, and little or no inconve- 
nience may be felt in the real seat of the offending matter. The 
mind becomes suddenly overcast, as it were, with a cloud — some 
dreadful imaginary or even unknown evil seems impending ; or 
some real evil, of trifling importance in itself, is quickly mag- 
nified into a terrific form, attended, apparently, with a train of 
disastrous consequences, from which the mental eye turns in dis- 
may. The sufferer cannot keep in one position, but paces the 
room in agitation, giving vent to his fears in doleful soliloquies, 
or pouring forth his apprehensions in the ears of his ftiends. If 
he is from home, when this fit comes on, he hastens back — but 
soon sets out again, in the vain hope of running from his own 
wretched feelings. If he happen to labour under any chronic 
complaint at the time, it is immediately converted (in his imagi- 
nation) into an incurable disease ; and the distresses of a ruined 
and orphaned family rush upon his mind and heighten his ago- 
nies. He feels his pulse, and finds it intermitting or irregular 
— disease of the heart is threatened, and the doctor is summoned. 
If he ventures to go to bed — and falls into a slumber, he awakes 
in the midst of a frightful dream, and dares not again lay his head 
on the pillow. This state of misery may continue for 24, 36, or 
48 hours ; when a discharge of viscid, acrid bile, of horrible faetor, 
dissolves at once the spell by which the strongest mind may be 
bowed down to the earth, for a time, through the agency of a 
poisonous secretion on the intestinal nerves ! Or it may go off 
without any evacuation of oflFending matter, leaving us in the 
dark as to the cause of such a train of distressing phenomena. 
I believe such a train of symptoms seldom obtains, except where 
there is a predisposition to morbid sensibility, occasioned by men- 
tal anxiety, vicissitudes of fortune, disappointments in business, 
failure of speculations, domestic afflictions, too great laboiu* of the 



SYMPATHETIC EFFECTS OF THE PATHO-PROTEU8. 151 

intellect, or some of those thousand moral ills, which render both 
muid and body so susceptible of disorder."* 

This, however, is a paroxysm or storm, which soon blows over, 
and we have a longer or shorter interval of quietude, A much 
worse condition is too often the fate of the victim of " morbid 
SENSIBILITY." The ncrvcs of the digestive organs sympathise so 
extensively and intimately with those of all other organs and parts 
of the body, that the seat of suffering is generally placed far re- 
mote from the seat of its cause. The head, the heart, and other 
distant parts, are far more frequently referred to by the individual, 
than the stomach or bowels, where the evil originates ; and to 
these localities remedies are, of course, ineffectually directed. 
Here lies the difficulty of discrimination! And if the longest 
experience and most patient investigation are frequently deceived, 
what must be the case in the routine practice of the fashionable 
physician, who flies, on burning wheels, from patient to patient, 
prescribing for symptoms ! 

But even these corporeal sufferings, bad as they are, constitute 
but a small share in the sum total of afflictions resulting from this 
nervous temperament — this morbid sensibility of the human con- 
stitution, induced by modem civilization and refinement ! The 
Patho-Proteian fiend too often flies at nobler quarry than the 
material organs. He can paralyze the energies of the mind as 
readily as the torpedo benumbs the feelings of the body. Would 
that this were all ! But the sting of the fiend carries with it 
poison as well as paralysis ! In this state of sublunary existence, 
the faculties of the soul are so entwined with the functions of its 
material tenement, that one class cannot be acted on, without the 
other being affected. This is a general rule. But the nervous 
temperament, the morbid sensibility, to which I now allude, 
exercises a peculiar, a predominant influence over our moral 

SENTIMENTS. 

It is well known, and universally acknowledged, that irritation 
in the stomach and bowels will frequently induce temporary 
insanity — and especially those violent paroxysms that lead to 

• Essay on Indigestion, 10th Edition. 



152 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

suicide. If it be admitted (it cannot indeed be denied) that the 
malady in question is capable of subverting reason entirely, for a 
time, how can we resist the inference that, in milder grades, it 
perverts the feelings, the affections, the passions — in one word, 
the TEMPER of the individual ? Temper is perfectly well under- 
stood by every one — yet it cannot be defined by the most subtle 
metaphysician. It is said to be good — bad — gay — sulky — irrita- 
ble — phlegmatic — irascible — peevish — placid — quarrelsome — im- 
perturbable, &c. involving all kinds of contrasts, and consequently 
rendering all definitions nugatory. Johnson gives seven different 
definitions of temper. One of them (the first) will be sufficient 
here ; viz. " due mixture of contrary qualities." 

Metaphysicians have not always been the best versed in the 
knowledge of human nature. How could they, indeed, when we 
see that they studied but half the subject — the mind and not the 
body ? The consequence has been, that many qualities, dispo- 
sitions, and propensities have been attributed to the mind, which 
belong to the body and only affect the mind secondarily. Thus 
temper, for example, is, by most people, looked upon as a quahty 
of mind, whereas it is solely one of the corporeal constitution. 
It is, in fact, temperament, which must be material. If this 
were not true, how is it that a man's temper is often entirely 
changed by a severe iUness ? 

" Manners with fortune, tempers change with times." 

Does the mind or soul change thus ? Not at all. The constitu- 
tion — the health of the body alters — and the temper with it. This 
view of the subject offers no apology for non-restraint of our 
temper, passions, and propensities, by means of our reason. On 
the contrary, it holds out the strongest incentives to employ the 
moral power in coercing the physical evil. If tempers and passions 
belonged exclusively to the mind, the mind could not control them, 
no more than the body itself could control its ovm temperament. 
As temper and passions then are attributes of the grosser part of 
our nature, it is for the immaterial and immortal agent to quell, or 
at least to restrain them. 

But let it be observed that the greatest exertions of the mind 



STMPATHIB8 BBTWBBN BODY AND MIND. 153 

will not be always able to control completely the passions or 
temper of the body, without material assistance. All the reason- 
ing in the world will not be adequate to counteract the effects of 
disordered digestion on the mental faculties, without laying the 
axe to the root of the tree — without striking at the corporeal 
origin of the evil. — Thus a man is affected with depression of 
spirits, hypochondriasis — or even delusion on a particular subject — 
monomania. He is told to exert his reason, and thus to dissipate 
his vapours. His reason may enable him to bear his sufferings 
with greater patience, but it will not remove the malady. And 
here I would ask, if insanity itself be purely " mental deranob- 
MENT," why it is that the metaphysician, whose province it is to 
treat of mind, is not called in, to decide the question of sanity or 
insanity of mind, and also to guide the treatment ? How is it 
that the physician, whose business is with the body, is selected to 
judge of the unsoundness of the mind, and to bring it back from 
its aberrations .'' It is because theory and practice do not quadrate 
on this point. The truth is, there is no such thing as pure mental 
derangement. The disease is in the body — its symptoms appear 
in disordered manifestations of the mind. And it is through the 
medium of the corporeal organs and functions that we can hope 
to remedy it. We hear a great deal, indeed, of the moral treat- 
ment of the insane. This moral management is proper; but 
when accurately analyzed, it will be found that its agency is 
directly or iJtimately felt by the corporeal functions, and thus its 
chief remedial influence is exerted. Take, for example, the mild 
and soothing system of managing the insane, during a paroxysm, 
as contrasted with the harsh and coercive means which were 
formerly employed. What are the physiological effects } The 
nervous excitement is lulled — the vascular action is diminished — 
and the maniacal orgasm is, of course, abridged. In what does 
this treatment differ from that which is pursued in other diseases } 
In fever, gout, or inflammation of the heart, if we irritate the 
morale of the patient, will we not do great mischief ? — and will 
we not mitigate these diseases by soothing and quietude } — In 
short, the whole of the moral treatment, in any and every case. 



154 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

resolves itself, at last, into corporeal results or effects, through 
which the cure or alleviation is consummated.* 

This reasoning will hold good throughout the whole chain of 
moral infirmities, from insanity, at the head of the scale, down 
to the most trifling irritability of temper. Every link in that 
vast chain is dependent on some corporeal disposition or dis- 
order, and is only to be broken by a combination of moral and 
physical remedies. — Reason, morality, and, above all, religion, 
will curb, though seldom cure, the minor grades of the evil, 
but the highest link in the cham, in which the reasoning powers 
themselves are subverted, defies moral remedies, and requires the 
aid of physical agents. 



HYGIENE ; OR PREVENTION. 

Enough — perhaps more than enough, has been said on the 
nature and causes of the Proteiform Malady — the offspring 
and curse of advanced civilization and refinement — the punish- 
ment which knowledge and improvement inflict on a redundant 
population ! But the reflections and observations which I have 
made will not be valueless to the reader, if d\ily considered. In 
portraying the causes of the malady, I have, in fact, indicated 
the chief preventives, or even the correctives — without naming 
them — and that in a far more effectual manner than by detail- 
ing a long catalogue of specific remedies. This latter course, 
indeed, would be inappropriate in a work of this kind, designed 
for general perusal. I have already remarked that the Essence of 

* Insanity, like gout and some other disorders, is acknowledged to be heredi- 
tary. Is the mind or ^oxilhtsreditary ? If it be derived from our parents, im- 
mortality is a dream ! No, no. The soul's tenement only is transmitted fiom 
generation to generation, and with it many of its maladies. The immortal 
spark is derived from Heaven, the same in every subsequent as in the first 
creation. It would appear to me a sound, or, at all events, a rational doc- 
trine, to consider evil dispositions as attached to the fallen or mortal part of 
man, — the soul, or immortal part, being responsible in another state of ex- 
istence, for the duty of controlling and preventing the deeds of the flesh in 
this world. 



HYGIENE — EXERCISE. 155 

HVOiRNR, or prevention of disease, consists in temperance and 
exercise. Of the first I have spoken enough — and took care to 
extend the meaning of intemperance to more indulgences than 
those of the table. Every one who has honoured these pages 
with perusal, must have appreciated the value which I attach to 
CORPOREAL EXERCISES ; but the subjcct is one of such vital im- 
portance, in regard to health and happiness, that a few observa- 
tions on it, will not, perhaps, be deemed superfluous from the pen 
of one who has studied it with unusual care, and noted its influ- 
ence on an extended theatre of observation. 

In the first phases of hunian life, exercise of the body is posi- 
tive pleasure, and the want of it is little less than actual pain. 
The muscles of early youth are so imbued with an exuberance 
of vitality, that quietude is irksome, and this exuberance is joy- 
fully, as well as profitably expended in active exertion. In the 
advanced stages of existence, on the contrary, the muscles lose 
their aptitude for motion — the sinews their elasticity — and then 
rest is little short of sensible pleasure. In the middle stages of 
man's journey on earth, when exercise produces neither pain 
nor pleasure, it is, nevertheless, necessary to health — but it is 
at this period that it is too much neglected. Various causes are 
assigned for this neglect — -and various excuses (some of them 
valid, others not) are made by different individuals or classes. 
Our sedentary habits and mental pursuits disincUne, and, in 
some measure, disqualify us for strenuous bodily exertion — but 
this is a strong argument for early and regular resistance to the 
growing propensity. 

" Crescit indulgens sibi dirus hydrops." 

And so does the indulgence of indolence increase the disposition 
to inaction. Many people, with reason, aver that they have no 
TIME for exercise. The Coan sage begins his aphorisms with 
this remarkable expression : " Ars longa, vita brevis " — which 
virtually means, " our labours are many, but our days are few." 
The aphorism is correct ; but the inference drawn from it is often 
wrong. It is not by dedicating aU our hours to labour, repose, 
and sleep, that we sl^all effect most achievements, whether intel- 



156 BCONOMY OF HEALTH. 

lectual or mechanical — consistent, at least, with health. Par- 
simony is not always economy ; and he who abstracts a certain 
portion of time from his usual mental or corporeal avocations, 
and dedicates it to simple exercise of the body in the open air, 
will reach the goal of his ambition sooner — or, at all events, more 
safely, than he who considers all time lost, which is not spent in 
the specific avocation or pursuit in which he is engaged. I am 
well aware that thousands — nay miUions, are so circumstanced, 
that their daily wants demand the daUy waste of their health and 
strength! This is particularly the case with females ; and affords 
an additional reason for our sympathy and kindness to the more 
amiable as well as the most industrious (I had almost said op- 
pressed) half of the human race ! 

Any exercise, however mechanical or partial, as in the various 
kinds of manufactures or handicrafts, is better than no exercise 
at all of the body. Throughout the extensive Bureaucracy 
of this country, including many of the learned and scientific 
professions, labour is thrown almost exclusively on the head — 
and it is not of the most cheerful kind. The benefits of cor- 
poreal exercise, and the injuries resulting from its neglect, are 
by no means generally understood. "We are told, indeed, that 
exercise strengthens the muscles, and the whole body ; — and, 
on the other hand, that indolence debilitates. This is a very 
imperfect view of the subject. If strength was the only salu- 
tary result of exercise — and if debility was the only consequence 
of its desuetude, little would be gained by the one, or lost by 
the other, comparatively speaking. But there are other con- 
sequences of a far more important nature. The brain and the 
nervous system furnish a certain quantum of excitability to the 
muscles, and to all the various organs and structures of the 
body ; — and this excitabHity ought to be expended in the exercise 
and operations of these various parts — if health is to be insured. 
But if, on the one hand, this sensorial power or excitability be 
expended on mental exertions, the other, or corporeal organs, 
must necessarily be deprived of their stimulus, and their func- 
tions languish, as a matter of course. Hence the innumerable 
disorders of those who work the brain more than the body! 



BENEFIT OF EXERCISE. 157 

The remedy cannot be found, in this class, by forcing the body 
to exercise, after the brain and nervous system are exhausted. 
Bodily exercise, under such circumstances, will only do injury. 
They must curtail the exertions of the mind and increase the ex- 
ercise of the body. 

But there is a large class of society, where neither the mind 
nor the body is exercised. In the higher grades, there is a 
portion who, of course, have no avocation or pursuit, mental or 
corporeal, and where indolence and ennui bear sway. In the 
lower ranges, a few muscles, indeed, as those of the hands and 
fingers, are daily exercised ; but the mind is either little con- 
cerned in these minute manipulations, or it is exercised in 
thoughts by no means conducive to moral or bodily health. In 
these two classes — and they comprehend an immense number 
of the existing human race, in the civilized world — the excita- 
bihty of the brain and nervous system accumulates, for want of 
expenditure, and soon passes into irritability — the bane and 
misery of millions ! ! — An illustration of this accumulation, as 
far as the body is concerned, must be familiar to every one 
who has travelled for twenty-four hours in a stage-coach, and 
experienced those most disagreeable sensations known by the 
term " fidgets," and arising from the confinement and in- 
activity of the Umbs, without the power or space for stretching 
them. The analogy extends to our mental, as well as to our 
physical organization. Muscular exercise, whether ui high or 
low life, carries off" and prevents an accumulation of excitability, 
and consequently of irritability, and thus conduces, in a very 
marked manner, to health of body and tranquiUity of mind. 
Want of exercise, especially when combined with mental exertion, 
disturbs the equilibrium of the circulation, and causes the blood 
to accumulate more in some organs than in others. Thus the 
brain is the great sufferer ; hence the headaches, confusion, loss 
of memory, giddiness, and other affections, so common among 
sedentary people. The liver, from its peculiarly languid cir- 
culation, is the next most common sulFerer. The vital current 
stagnates in the venous system of the biliary apparatus, and 
inert or bad bile is the consequence. This deranges the whole 



158 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

of the digestive organs, and through them almost every function 
of mind and body. Nothing can prove a complete substitute for 
exercise, whether active or passive, in the prevention of these 
numerous evils. Exercise equalizes the circulation, as well as 
the excitability, and thus checks the disposition to congestion and 
irritability. 

It is well known that one impression, whether mental or cor- 
poreal, \yill often supersede another, or at least weaken it. This 
principle is often available in the treatment of that cktss of human 
infirmities which we are now considering. 

If the individual's circumstances will permit him to engage in 
any pursuit that may occupy his attention and exercise his body, 
it will prove one of the most powerful means of counteracting 
the original cause of many of his sufferings. Unfortunately, 
there are but few whose circumstances will permit them to em- 
bark in any new pursuit. Yet it is in the power of a great 
many to engage in a systematic exercise of the body, in some 
mode or other, if they will only summon resolution to make the 
experiment. The languor and listlessness attendant on the dis- 
order are great obstacles to this plan ; but they should be 
urged to it by all the eloquence of their medical attendants. 
Some caution, however, is necessary here. The debility and 
exhaustion which supervene on the most trifling exertion deter 
most people from persevering, and, therefore, the corporeal ex- 
ercise must be commenced on the lowest possible scale, and very 
gradually increased. Thus, a person whose sedentary occupa- 
tions confine him to the house, might begin by going once to 
the top of the stairs the first day, twice the second day, and so 
on, till he could go up and down the same path many times 
each day. It is wonderful what may be accompUshed in this 
way by perseverance. I have known people, who could not go 
up a flight of steps without palpitation and breathlessness, ac- 
quire, in one month, the power of running up to the top of the 
house, with scarcely any acceleration of the pulse or respiration. 
If this kind of ascending and descending exertion, however, is 
feared, the individual may adopt the plan recommended by Mr. 
Abemethy, of walking to and fro in the room with the windows 



BENEFIT OF EXERCISE. 159 

open. If the exercise can be taken in the open air, it will be still 
belter, and the quantum may be gradually increased by twenty or 
thirty steps daily. This task, which should be represented as an 
infaJUble remedy in the end, must be performed at first when the 
stomach is nearly empty ; and when an increase of muscular 
power is acquired, it may be performed at any time — even within 
two hours after dinner. Those who can engage in any of the 
light gymnastic exercises, should be urged to it by every kind of 
persuasion, especially in the cool seasons of the year. These are 
means within the reach of almost all — and the advantages to be 
derived from such a system are incalculable. By tiiis systematic 
exertion of the body, with spare diet, most cases of dyspepsia 
might be completely cured among the middling and lower classes 
of society. 

But there is a large class whose morale has been too far spoiled 
— whose education has been too refined — and whose senses have 
been too much pampered, to benefit by such simple means. There 
must be some incentive to corporeal exertion stronger than the 
foregoing plan presents ; and moral excitement must be combined 
with physical agency, if we hope to carry our projects into bene- 
ficial operation. That the long catalogue of dyspeptic and hypo- 
chondriacal complaints is much more frequently the inheritance of 
the affluent than the indigent, there can be no doubt ; and yet 
the former class have a remedy in their power which is infinitely 
more eflicacious than all the other moral and physical means put 
together, but which they rarely take advantage of — or, when they 
do embrace it, they seldom go the proper way to work. This is 
TRAVELLING in the open air. 

In the course of a wandering life (over almost every part of the 
globe), I have had many opportunities of studying and ascertain- 
ing the effects of travelling on different diseases, and can confi- 
dently recommend annual excursions, either at home or abroad, 
to those who can afford the time and expense, as one of the most 
powerful preservers and restorers of health.* 

* See " Change of Air," 4th Edition. 



160 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

EIGHTH SEPTENNIAH. 

[49 io 56 years. '\ 

The idea of dividing human life into septenary periods, is as old 
as Gralen, or nearly so — and both Shakespeare and Hoffman sup- 
ported the same idea. It was only while this edition, however, 
was passing through the press, that I met with a work by Dr. 
.Jameson, published about thirty years ago, in which there is a 
most striking coincidence between that gentleman and myself, 
in respect to these septenary periods, as the following extract 
will shew. 

" But the septennial evolutions of the machine, are still more 
remarkable than any changes upon septenary days and months, 
for there does not occiu- seven successive years in the life of man, 
without some evident alteration of constitution, which will be- 
come apparent in the course of the present narrative. We may, 
however, in the mean time, instance the renewal of the teeth at 
the seventh year, the arrival of puberty at twice seven, full stature 
at three times seven, the perfection of growth at four times seven, 
the greatest vigour of body and mind at five times seven, the 
commencement of partial decay at six times seven, general decay, 
and decrease of energy at seven times seven, the arrival of old age 
at eight times seven, and the grand chmacteric of the ancients at 
nine times seven, which the author has always observed to come 
nearer the extent of hfe enjoyed by persons who have always 
lived in London, than any other term that could be chosen for 
general calculation." 

Dr. Jameson did not, however, adopt this septenary division, 
but parcelled out the stream of human existence into four periods 
— ^namely — infancy froia birth to the age of 14 — yoM^ from 14 to 
28 — manhood from 28 to 56 — and old age from 56 to the end of 
the term. Hoffman's arrangement was — infantia from birth to 7 
— pueritia from 7 to 14 — adolescentia from 14 to 21 — juventus 
from 21 to 35 — virilis cetas from 35 to 49 — senectus from 49 to 



RBLATIVB POSITION OF THK MASTER-PASSIONS. 161 

68 — decrepitas xtas from 63 to the end of life. It will be seen 
that the cardinal points of Dr. Jameson's calculations are the same 
as my own. He makes the greatest vigour of mind and body to 
take place at 35 — and declination from the meridiEui to commence 
at 42 years. Dr. Jameson, however, is inclined to think that this 
declination is not very conspicuous till the age of 57 years. 

" It might be expected that the history of old age would com- 
mence with the incipient part of man's decay, which is felt in 
some of the organs soon after forty-five, but it would be considered 
as a perversion of language in these days, to call men old at the 
time the body begins to retrograde, in a manner known only to 
anatomists. The author is, therefore, inclined to designate the 
57th year, when the failure becomes generally obvious over the 
system, as the beginning of old aige, and, the 81st year, as the 
commencement of the age of decrepitude, which extends to any 
subsequent number of years, to which the life of man may be 
extended." 

But be this as it may, the first anniversary of the Eighth Sep- 
tenniad launches us beyond the first — and, in all human proba- 
bility, into the last half century of human existence ! — Many 
commence the second half of the century ; but not one in fifty 
thousand complete it.* When, however, we survey the great 
chain of animated beings around us, from the polypus to man, we 
have no just reason to complain of the shortness of human life. 
A few animals, indeed, as the eagle and the elephant, live longer 
than we do. But the immense majority, enjoy an infinitely shorter 
range of light on this little globe. And when we look back from 
this advanced stage of our path, and contemplate the difliculties 
and the sufferings which we have experienced on the road — when 
we reflect that those which we have yet to encounter, are not 
likely to be few, we ought not to repine that the remainder of the 
journey is comparatively short, and that a peaceful asylum is in 



• By some statistical writers the centenarians are represented as much 
more numerous ; but their data are very doubtful, and much deception is 
practised by people after ninety years of age. They are then prone to ex- 
aggerate their length of life, instead of concealing their years. 

p 2 



162 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

view, where a narrow undisputed mansion will limit our ambition, 
and effectually exclude the passions, the cares, and the afflictions 
of this life. Yet, even in this eighth Septenniad, our hopes, 
anxieties, and struggles are more sanguine, intense, and perse- 
vering, than in any previous epoch of our sojourn here below ! 

In this Septenniad, the three master-passions, love, ambition, 
and AVARICE, shew fiui;her changes of relative position, not un- 
worthy of attention. Love and ambition had a hard struggle 
for precedency, in the seventh Septenniad — and avarice was 
clearly in the minority. In the present epoch, ambition comes 
unequivocally to the head of the list, and avarice, steadily rising, 
now disputes the claim of priority with love — and, it is to be 
feared, often stands second ! 

I have already remarked that the grand climacteric of woman 
— " the turn of life" — takes place in the latter years of the seventh 
Septenniad. If she escape the perils of that crisis (and they are 
not few), the stream of her physical existence is likely to run clear 
and placid till the great ocean of eternity is approached. There 
is not, at this period, any corresponding crisis in the Ufe of man. 
His critical or grand climacteric is at the advanced age of 
sixty-three. But, in both sexes, the eighth Septenniad brings 
with it a very marked increase of all the physical as well as in- 
tellectual changes, which the hand of Time is now working on 
the downward course of human existence. If, at this period, we 
meet with a friend or acquaintance, whom we have not seen for 
twenty years, the probability is, that we will not recognize the 
features of him or her, however familiar they may have been to 
our eyes for twenty years previously to the separation ! Each of 
the parties is shocked — almost horrified — at the change in the 
other — and each congratulates himself, by a kind of involuntary 
impulse, on having experienced less of the wear and tear of 
time, than his old friend ! He or she, who has daily contemplated 
the reflected image in the faithful mirror, for a quarter of a cen- 
tury, cannot detect the gradual, and almost imperceptible inroads 
of time on the eye and the countenance generally, tiU the start- 
ling portrait of the friend, so changed, so metamorphosed, as not 
to be recognised but by collateral proofs of identity, suddenly 



PAINFUL REMINISCENCES. 163 

arresU the attention, and, in despite of self-love and personal 
vanity, conveys a thrilling conviction that years have not rolled 
over his own head, without leaving their melancholy impress ! 

Poets and novelists have drawn glowing portraits of " the 
pleasures of memory ;" but he or she who revisits old friends 
and youth-hallowed localities, after a lapse of twenty or thirty 
years, will find that dolorous feelings predominate over youthful 
reminiscences. I can tell the philosopher, the philanthropist, 
and the moralist, that these revisitations will cause more pain 
than pleasure— especially if made during or after the seventh 
Septenniad. At an earlier period of life, the lapse of seven or 
ten vears may enhance the pleasures of memory, the review of 
juvenile scenes, and the re-union of old friendships ; but, in ad- 
vanced stages of existence, these pleasures are only in imagination, 
and are there alone enjoyed ! In such cases, epistolatory cor- 
respondence is perhaps preferable to a renewal of personal ac- 
quaintance. We are told that 

" Heaven first taught letters for some wretch's aid, 
Some banish'd lover, or some captive maid" — 

but they furnish solace and even pleasure to old and distant 
friends, who, through them, can recall the scenes of by-gone 
days, and revive impressions that were made — 



• When life itself was new, 



And the heart promis'd what the fancy drew — 

without the melancholy drawback of viewing, in the shattered 
fabric of our friend, those ravages which time has made, though 
the mirror has softened them, in ourselves ! I am here induced 
to make a short disquisition on — 

MEMORY. 

The phrenologists do not allot any particular organ or locality 
for memory. " Each organ (say they) enables the mind to recall 
the impressions which it served at first to receive." Thus the 
organs of tune and form will recall notes and figures. Mr. 
Coombe remarks, however, that "there appears to be a quality 



164 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

of brain, which gives retention to memory, so that one individual 
retains impressions much longer than another, although their 
combination of organs be the same. The cause of this is un- 
known." But whatever be the nature or seat of memorj', there 
is no power of the mind which is more complained of, as short in 
youth, treacherous in manhood, and impotent in age ! It appears, 
indeed, to be the first faculty to fail and ultimately decay. It is 
the power of reproducing images impressed on the sensorial tablet 
through the medium of the senses first, and reflection afterwards. 
It is therefore the child of attention — and where the parent is 
indolent, the progeny will, in this case, be indigent. In nine 
cases out of ten, where the memory is treacherous, the observa- 
tion has been superficial, perception faint, and reflection null or 
vague. The senses furnish, and memory preserves, the whole 
materiel of our knowledge — ^while imagination and reflection are 
merely the architects that convert the rough materials into various 
forms afterwards. It is fortunate that memory is faithful and 
retentive during that period of life in which the chief stock of 
knowledge is laid up. The faculty may afterwards fail ; but the 
understanding has been furnished with proper materials for car- 
rying on the ordinary concerns of life. It rarely happens that the 
substance of early knowledge is ever lost — though its sources, its 
minutiae, and its technicalities lapse from the tablet of the me- 
mory. The impressions of external objects (and even reflections), 
on the youthful mind, are graven in brass — those of our latter 
years are written in sand — or rather in water ! They fade almost 
immediately. 

Memory is one of the most wonderful operations of mind or 
matter. We can form some faint idea of the impression which 
an object — say a ruin — makes on the mind through the medium 
of the eye ; — but how memory can fix it there — or, at all events, 
reproduce it, voluntarily or involuntaiily, twenty or thirty years 
afterwards, is most mysterious ! Now all anatomists agree that 
the whole structure of the brain is repeatedly renewed in the 
course of life — there being no particle of the same organ in man- 
liood which had existed in youth. Yet an image impressed on 
the sensoriura in early life, is often recalled in age, after the whole 



M£MORY. 165 

material tablet on which it was engraved, has been removed. 
This would seem to indicate that memory is a function connected 
with something beyond the boundary of matter. This, however, 
like every faculty or function of mind, is manifested through the 
instrumentality of matter. Although the brain cannot think, per 
se, neither can the mind render thought obvious without the brain 
— and so of memory. The brain cannot recall past impressions 
without mind, nor can the mind retain them without the material 
organ. The memory decays with the body, or is temporarily de- 
ranged by the disorders of its material seat, the brain, in compli- 
ance with the laws that affect all the other mental faculties. It 
is greatly impaired by intemperance in spirituous liquors, the 
drunkard often becoming nearly bereft of memory at the age of 
forty or fifty. When a man has taken a bottle of wine, even 
when in perfect health, his memory becomes treacherous on sub- 
jects and names which he distinctly recollects when he is sober 
next day. This shews that the excitement of wine, while it exalts 
the imagination, impairs the memory — and, I need hardly say, 
clouds the judgment. 

There is no artificial means of recruiting the memory, but by 
keeping the brain as free as possible from excitement — especially 
of spirituous potations. But, as I said before. Attention is the 
parent of Memory, and one half of our complaints respecting 
weak memory originates in inattention. We neglect to ob- 
serve — and we say we forget. The want of laudable curiosity 
is a great source of weak impressions — and, consequently, of de- 
fective memory. The first time I crossed the Tyber, in company 
with an EngUsh country-gentleman, I was bored with an account 
of horses and horse-racing. After passing the Milvian bridge, I 
asked him what river that was that looked so muddy and yellow. 
" River ! said he, I saw no river." I pointed out the turbid 
stream behind us, and told him it was the celebrated Tyber. He 
acknowledged that he had passed it unobserved. Now any par- 
ticulars that escaped this gentleman's observation would assuredly 
be put down to the account of a treacherous memory. I once 
visited Staffa, in company with an elderly gentleman who had 
returned from India with a good fortune. He sat down on a 



166 ECONOMY OP HEALTH. 

block of basalt, at the entrance of Fingal's Cave, while the rest of 
the company were examining the interior of this " cathedral built 
by Nature." On returning to the steamer, he remarked that he 
had been a great fool for coming so far, and getting sea-sick, 
" to see a huge heap of great stones." On the top of Ben 
Cruachan, afterwards, he ate a hearty luncheon, while I was con- 
templating the magnificent panorama, the scenery of which at- 
tracted not his attention. How could StafFa or Ben Cruachan 
remain in the memory, when the images were so faintly impressed 
on the sensorium ? 

We are told by metaphysicians that memory is not entirely 
under the command of the will — that we cannot always recollect 
when we please — nor banish recollections when they arise, by an 
act of volition. They are greatly mistaken. "We can instantly 
forget an old friend or intimate acquaintance, if he has happened 
to fall into misfortunes and poverty — and recall him as suddenly 
to mind, when he emerges into opulence or power. Our memory 
is singularly tenacious of any injury we have received from a 
neighbour — and equally treacherous as to favours conferred on us 
by a friend who is now in need. The effects of avocations and 
offices on the memory is often remarkable. Ministers and heads 
of departments, civil, military, and naval, have, ex officio, most 
treacherous memories as to promises made to aspirants for places, 
pensions, and promotions. Parents are apt to forget that they 
ever were young — and children that they are ever to be old. 
Matrimony sometimes affects the memory in a peculiar and par- 
tial manner. We often find the husband forget the words " che- 
rish and support," — while the wife loses recollection of the words 
" honour and obey." I never knew a lady forget the exact 
amount of her pin-money. The sight of beauty often causes 
forgetfulness of other qualities, in the male spectator. 

" If to her lot some female errors fall, 
Look in her face, and you'll forget them all." 

In the female spectator, however, the sight of beauty has often 
a directly contrary effect. I knew a lady who complained bitterly 
of her memory, and declared her belief that she would soon forget 



MEMORY. 167 

her own name. Yet she remembered not only the names, but the 
Hges of all her female friends — especially if they were on the 
wrong side of thirty. Tenacity and treachery of memory nin 
very much in families. TTie nobleman seldom forgets his high 
ancestral pedigree — the plebeian rarely remembers the names or 
professions of his forefathers. That memory and forgetfiilness are 
acts of volition, I will give the testimony of Blackstone — who 
was surely a judge. He charges the jury (and the example is 
followed by all judges since his days) to forget everything they 
may have seen, heard, or felt, prior to the trial, and to remember 
nothing but what comes out during the evidence in court. Surely 
grave and learned men on the Bench would not enjoin that which 
is incompatible with human powers — ergo, we can remember and 
forget at pleasure. 

But deficiency of memory, which most people complain of, as 
^ great misfortune, ought really, according to Pope, to be regarded 
as a special advantage. 

" Thus in the soul where memory prevails. 
The solid power of understanding fails : — 
Where beams of bright imagination play. 
The memory's soft figures melt away." 

This doctrine of Pope, or rather of Bolinbroke, is somewhat ques- 
tionable as to the soundness of its philosophy. It is difficult to 
conceive how the understanding can be injured by a retentive 
memory — or how indeed it can be built up without this necessary 
faculty. If the bricks and blocks of marble begin to crumble 
down as soon as they are collected, the edifice will hardly swell 
into the majestic temple. And so it is with facts and knowledge 
of every kind. Unless they Eu:e retained in the memory to be 
worked up by reflection, the understanding wiU be defective. And 
yet there is some truth in the above dogma. ITius, a man who 
has a very retentive memory, employs himself more in storing up 
the facts, observations, and reasonings of others, than in digesting 
them in his own mind and drawing conclusions for himself. His 
memory is an immense granary, from which he can draw at plea- 
sure, and repeat by rote ; securing to himself the credit of learning 



168 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

among all his auditors — and talent amongst a majority of them. 
But this strength of memory, where it does not accompany or 
lead to indolence of reflection, proves the soundest basis for the 
understanding and judgment. As for imagination, it can do 
nothing without memory. The greatest poetical genius that ever 
existed, can only combine, modify, or exaggerate images and 
facts impressed on the mind through the medium of the senses. 
Shakespeare may have "exhausted worlds;" but I deny that he 
" imagined new." I defy his warmest admirers to produce a 
single offspring of his imagination that is not a type or combina- 
tion of sensible objects presented to his and to every man's mind 
in this our own globe. Take, for instance, his Caliban, which is 
one of the best specimens of his imagination. No one, of course, 
ever saw such a creature. But there is not a single part, or 
particle of his composition, from his hide to his hoof, which has 
not its representative in nature. He merely combined parts which 
are separated and dispersed through other animals. Thus we 
may draw or imagine a figure with the head of a cock, the neck 
of a horse, the body of a lion, and the legs of an elephant. But 
is there any new creation here ? None. The fancy combines 
heterogeneous parts already known — and then we have a wonder- 
ful effort of genius — a splendid creature of the imagination — a 
Caliban. Now the greater the number of facts and observations 
that have been accumulated, the more retentively they have been 
kept in the memory, and the more assiduously they have been 
worked up by reflection — the more powerful will be the imagina- 
tion in combining in one figure a variety of disjointed parts that 
are never seen as a whole in Nature. And this is one of the 
grand attributes of our immortal Bard. It extends to the morale 
as well as to the physique. The sentiments of Caliban and 
Prospero — of Ariel and Miranda, were suggested by observation 
and reflection, just as much as their figures and faces. It is not 
therefore true that Shakespeare or the poet he describes, has been 
able 

to give to airy nothing 



A local habitation and a name. 



MEMORY. 169 

If we look to Homer, we find that his heroes are only men — and 
his gods and goddesses but mortals with wings. He can cloathe 
Jupiter himself only with thunder and lightning for his celestial 
weapons — and Apollo is obliged to use bows and arrows. If he 
had assigned his warriors, at the siege of Troy, either pistols or 
cannon, we might have given him credit for creating some image 
or figure, of which he had -neither heard nor seen any thing. 
But he has done nothing of the kind — for the best of all reasons. 
Milton, indeed, has introduced artillery into Heaven ; but, 
unfortunately for his creative genius, it was previously introduced 
on earth. Satan could not portray his mother, Six, in any but 
human shape distorted. 

" Whence and what art thou execrable shape ?" 

And so the sculptor, who chiselled the Medicean Venus, could 
only select the best parts and features from other beauties, and 
combine them in one. Shakespeare reversed the plan when he 
drew the portrait of Caliban. 

The moral or useful deduction which we are to draw from such 
disquisition is this — the more facts we collect — the more we reflect 
on these facts — and the more tenacious the memory is, both of 
the facts and reflections — the better will be the " understanding" 
— and the brighter will be the " imagination." Let youthful 
poets ponder on this, and not flatter themselves that the fertility 
of their imagination will compensate for careful observation, ma- 
ture reflection, and retentive memory. If they do, they will find 
themselves wofuUy mistaken. 

But although we often injure the memory — although we often 
blame it when we ought to blame our inattention — and, what is 
worse, although the memory is amongst the first of the mental 
faculties to fail — ^yet there is no doubt that men's memories are 
a? various as their abilities or complexions, namely, that some are 
naturally retentive — others irretentive, dependent on some un- 
known quality of the brain itself. On this account we are led to 
ask, can the memory be improved or fortified ? Undoubtedly it 
can. Every faculty of the mind, as well as the body itself, may 
be strengthened by exercise, and weakened by idleness. The 

Q 



170 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

surest method of improving the memory is by early and regular 
cultivation of the attention. The latter, as I before observed, 
is the parent of the former — and it is in the power of every indi- 
vidual to employ it. But the most assiduous attention will be 
comparatively inefficient, without the habit of reflection on the 
objects presented to the senses. Reflection arranges the materials 
in the mind, and tends to rivet them in the memory. Nine-tenths 
of the diiFerences which we find in the memories of men, are at- 
tributable to the different degrees of attention which they pay to 
surrounding objects and passing events — and also to their habits 
of reflection or non -reflection afterwards. Thus, two men sail up 
the Rhine in the steamer. One of them directs minute attention 
to every old ruin, precipice, rock, decUvity, village or vineyard on 
the romantic banks of the stream. The other spends half the 
time in chatting to his neighbours, casting a careless look occa- 
sionally at the moving panorama, without making any reflections 
whatever on the mouldering monuments of other times that meet 
the eye at every sinuosity of the river, or on the history or legends 
connected with them. Whose memory, of these two individuals, 
admitting that they were naturally equal in compass, will remain 
most charged with the romantic scenery of the Rhine ? I need 
not answer this question — it is already answered in every reader's 
mind. I may add, that after careful attention to, and subsequent 
reflection on, surrounding objects, although the names and minute 
circumstances may fade from the memory, in the course of time, 
the great features will always rise at will and in vivid colours on the 
mind's eye. I know this from personal and general experience. It 
is now twenty years since I first crossed the Simplon — and never 
passed it since — yet every tourniquet and gallery — every frowning 
precipice and yawning gulf — every chilUng glacier and dripping 
grotto — every pine-capt cliff" and roaring torrent — are as fresh in the 
mental mirror as v/hen first impressed on the tablet of my memory 
— which is by no means a retentive one.* It is all owing to 
ATTENTION ond EEFLECTioN. Thcsc I strongly recommend to the 

* I made no memorandum or note during the transit, and described this 
celebrated pass entirely from memory, during an hour or two at the Hotel of 
Domo d'Ossolo. — See " Change of Air," ith Edition. 



DANGER OF CRAKGIKO HABITS AND PURSUITS. 171 

reader — especially before the period arrives when the memory 
begins naturally to decay. 

There are some admonitions that are applicable to the seventh, 
but still more to the eighth Septenniad. In these periods, the 
moral as well as the physical aptitudes to receive and to retain 
impressions are diminished, and our habits are firmly rooted. 
Hence the danger of embarking in any new pursuit, avocation, 
or enterprize, to which ambition (now in the ascendant) is con- 
stantly prompting mankind. Every avocation or pursuit re- 
quires a certain amount of elementary knowledge, which can 
only be properly acquired in youth, when the susceptibilities 
are keen, and the memory retentive. It is not, therefore, in 
middle age, that we are to expend our time and energies in such 
acquirements — but rather to work upon the materials of know- 
ledge previously stocked up. Thus we see men labouring at 
the study of new languages after the age of forty — or embarking 
in entirely new professions or avocations. Nothing can be more 
injudicious — for failure is almost the invariable result. In the 
middle ages, our judgment is matured, and we shoiild then mould 
and direct the materials in our possession, rather than accumulate 
fresh stores. 

This principle applies to another subject of no small interest — 
the contracting matrimonial alliances after the seventh Septen- 
niad. Old maids, old bachelors, old widows, and old widowers 
— a formidable phalanx ! — will, no doubt, declare war against 
me, on accoimt of the sentiments which I am going to deliver. 
None of them will follow my advice (if they can help it) — few of 
them will approve my counsel — but many of them will acknow- 
ledge, when too late, the truth of my opinions ! These opinions 
are not deduced from inadequate data, nor are they grounded on 
superficial observation. They are the result of mature reflection, 
and they can hardly be suspected of any personal motive or mis- 
anthropic impulse. They may be erroneous ; but they are, at 
least, conscientious. 

When matrimonial alliances are formed after the seventh Sep- 
tenniad, they are generally eiFected under circimistances of great 
disparity in age. An elderly gentleman marries a young wife — 



172 KCONOMY OF HEALTH. 

or a matronly lady espouses a youthful husband. In both cases, 
money is the usual equipoise thrown into the scale to adjust the 
balance of years — the counterfort (as an engineer would say) to 
prop up the decline of life. But gold remains the same, or grows 
lighter, while infirmities accumulate. The balance is soon broken, 
and the inequilibrium becomes every day more glaring, tiU the 
scales are in the position of the Zenith and the Nadir ! The false 
step is perceived when it cannot be retraced — and disappointment, 
if not misery, is the result ! 

That there are exceptions to this rule, I do not deny — but 
that they are more frequently apparent than real, I am inclined 
to suspect. It will clearly be the interest and object of both con- 
tracting parties to conceal the disappointment and portray the 
blessings of the alliance. When a man finds that he has pur- 
chased a bad horse, he is unusually eloquent in his praises of the 
animal. It is not impossible that animals, of a higher order, in 
the scale of creation, than even the horse, have sometimes received 
unmerited eulogy. Be this as it may, I am cominced, from no 
narrow range of observation, that great disparity in years can 
rarely be compensated by disparity in wealth or in rank. I base 
my conclusions on some knowledge of human nature, namely, a 
knowledge of the moral and physical constitution of man and 
WOMAN too — in our present state of existence. Those who ex- 
pect that the general laws of Nature may bend to accommodate 
particular circumstances and individual wishes, will find, when too 
late, that the foregoing exposition is a truth — perhaps unpalatable, 
but certainly salutary. 

It is in the eighth Septenniad that certain mementos, which 
had faintly announced themselves previously, now obtrude their 
unwelcome presence so unequivocally, as not to be mistaken or 
overlooked. These are the changes which years effect in the 
hair, the eyes, the teeth, the complexion, the features, and many 
other organs and functions in the human frame. It becomes too 
manifest at this period, that fifty Winters did not roll over our 
heads, without leaving indelible marks of wear and tear ! It is 
now but too evident that the tenement we inhabit, though con- 
structed with infinite skill, is yet but one of clay — that it is failing 



INSTINCTIVB MORAL IMPULSES. 173 

in its whole fabric — ^that, though it may be propt up for a time, 
it is insusceptible of thorough repair — in fine, that the mansion 
must be vacated at the expiration of the lease, and the materials 
left to moulder into the dust from which they originally sprung ! 
It is about this time, indeed, that the conviction comes home to 
the mind of the tenant, that the very same implements and me- 
chanism which raised the proud edifice to its highest elevation, 
are now gradually, but perceptibly, dilapidating the walls and 
undermining the foundation ! 

" Nascentes morimur, finisque ab origine pendet." 

One might expect that, with all these unequivocal warnings, 
MAN (the only animal on this globe who recognises the ebb of 
life, and is aware that it ends in death) would slacken his pace 
in the career of ambition, and relax his grasp in the pursuit of 
wealth. Yet he does nothing of the kind. On the contrary, 
the lust of power and the love of gold (especially the latter) 
augment rather than decrease as the goal is approached where 
both objects must be abandoned for ever ! The fact is, that 
these propensities are instincts implanted in human nature, over 
which Reason has but partial control. Religion can do more ; 
but neither of these can eradicate an instinct, which is a kind of 
moral appetite, as naturally appertaining to mind, as hunger or 
thirst to the body. The moral appetites are not the less wisely 
given, because, like the physical, they are much abused. Were 
it not for these powerful instinctive impulses, man, b& soon as he 
saw that his days were necessarily bounded within a very narrow 
span, would abandon all mental exertion, and limit his labours 
to the mere gratification of his corporeal senses. But the Om- 
niscient Creator foresaw this evil, and efi^ectually obviated it, by 
irresistible moral instincts. It is for Religion, Morality, Reason, 
and Philosophy, to restrain these instinctive impulses, as much as 
possible, within salutary bounds — it is for the visionary enthusiast 
to denounce them as wicked propensities infused into the human 
mind by the Father of Evil, and to be extinguished by aus- 
terity or fanaticism.* 

• It is impossible to read the life of Cowper, the Poet, without coming to 

Q 2 



174 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

But although the warnings and admonitions abovementioned, 
are not sufficient, to wean the mind of man from the affairs of 
this world, and to direct it to the concerns of another, they are 
by no means passed over unnoticed. On the contrary, they 
are viewed with the utmost solicitude. The three kingdoms of 
Nature, and the four quarters of the globe, are ransacked in 
search of any and every material that may repair, palliate, or 
conceal, the ravages of time or disease on the corporeal fabric. 
If an accurate estimate of the number of human beings employed 
in these various avocations could be formed, it would astonish 
the world. It might not, probably, be exceeding the truth, if 
it were calculated that, in the British Isles alone, a quarter of a 
million of people are daily exercised, directly or indirectly — 
as MAXRiGHTS. The head engineers — the doctors, surgeons, 
apothecaries, dentists, oculists, aurists, &c. &c. though a formid- 
able phalanx in themselves, are a mere drop in the ocean, com- 
pared with the myriads of subordinate agents engaged in collect- 
ing and preparing the materials for those who apply them ! 
And, after making due allowance for the useless or injurious 
measures that are employed in the hope of remedying defects or 
concealing deformities, mankind draws a prodigious amount of 
succour and solace from this magazine. I will only adduce one 
or two instances. What a source of pleasure, comfort, and hap- 
piness, is found in a piece of glass, by which the human eye, in 
age, is enabled to recover and maintain the focus of youth — and 
thus to enjoy the beauties of Nature, and peruse the effusions of 
genius, to the latest years of existence ! "Whether or not the 
ancients enjoyed the luxury of spectacles, I am not certain. I 

the conclusion that the greater part of his life was passed in a state of insanity. 
But that insanity was dreadfully exasperated by the insane conduct of some 
of his friends — especially that fanatic Newton, who dragged the melancholy 
hypochondriac through all the mazes of a visionary system of religion, ex- 
pecting a miraculous interposition of the Deity, in favour of the poor poet, 
instead of placing him under the care of a physician to check, if possible, the 
corporeal disorder, of which the mental delusion was the effect, or outward 
symptom ! The unhappy bard was sacrificed, body and mind, by injudicious 
friends ! 



INSTINCTIVE MORAL IMPULSES. 175 

apprehend that they did not. And if so, the modems have an 
advantage over them which is incalculable ! 

In respect to the teeth, I think it very probable that the ancients^ 
did not experience that premature decay of these most useful and 
ornamental instruments, to such an extent as is now witnessed. 
But lengthened years must have demolished the teeth in all ages ; 
and it is quite certain that our forefathers were deprived, or rather 
unpossessed of the operations and inventions of dentists — ex- 
cepting, perhaps, the rude and painful extraction of teeth that 
were never to be replaced. The amount of advantage conferred 
on mankind by the substitution of artificial organs of mastication 
and speech, when the natural organs are destroyed, is prodigious, 
as regards health and happiness — leaving aside the deformity and 
mortification attendant on toothless gums. 

If the healing art has introduced a host of unprincipled quacks 
and impostors — and if the art itself is necessarily conjectural in 
some degree ; yet it confers on mortal man a great boon. It 
averts or cures many diseases that would otherwise be fatal. And 
even where it cannot avert the malady, or arrest its career, it 
inspires hope, and thus strews the path to the grave with flowers, 
which, without it, would be planted with thorns, tortured with 
pains, and clouded with despair ! Those who, in health, are most 
prone to scoff at medicine, are those who, when overtaken with 
the pangs of disease, are most eager, and even impatient to im- 
plore its aid. 

It is not, indeed, at the last struggle which marks the libera- 
tion of the immortal tenant from its shattered and falling mansion, 
that the keenest agony is felt, or the consolation of the Divine 
and the Physician is most wanted. It is in the long and nigged 
avenue of sickness which leads to the peaceful grave, that the 
balm of friendship, the support of religion, and the anodyne of 
the physician, are truly needed and gratefully acknowledged. 

It is in the Eighth Septenniad, that certain spontaneous 
changes take place in the balance of the human constitution, 
which, though not actually forming the Grand Climacteric, 
create the materials which render that epoch critical, if not 
dangerous. After the age of 50, the muscles lose much of their 



176 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

elasticity and aptitude for action — ^partly from time, partly from 
sedentary avocations, — and partly from indolence. But this 
diminution of muscular activity is not usually attended with a 
corresponding diminution of relish for the pleasures of the table. 
Very often the increase of this relish is proportioned to the 
decrease of inclination for exercise. 

The consequences may be easily imagined. Obesity is the 
result of too much nutriment, and too little expenditure of that 
nutriment in muscular exertion. The body enlarges in size, 
especially about the seat of the digestive organs — layer after 
layer of fat is deposited in the abdomen — and, in fine, a portly 
CORPORATION is formed, which destroys the symmetry of the 
figure, and indisposes still further to healthful bodily exercise. 
These, however, would be trifling evils in themselves. They lead 
to much greater ones. The balance of the circulation is disturbed, 
and a greater impulse of blood is directed to the head. The 
pressure of corpulency on the great vessels descending through 
the abdominal organs, determines inevitably the afflux of blood 
to the upper part of the body and lays the foundation of numerous 
and dangerous diseases in this or in the succeeding Septenniads. 
It is at this period, that we hear people complaining of various 
feelings and phenomena about the head, which are too often dis- 
regarded, or attributed to indigestion, when, in reality, they are 
precursors of apoplexy, paralysis, or damage of the intellectual 
powers. Giddiness, head-aches, forgetfulness, drowsiness, noise 
in the ears, specks before the eyes, numbness of some of the upper 
or lower limbs, diminution of sensation or muscular power, thick- 
ness of speech, tremors, confusion of thought, when any important 
mental operation is to be performed — these and many other 
warnings of this kind which, if attended to in time, might render 
the Grand Climacteric of the next Septenniad, much less 
hazardous, if not positively safe, are too often trifled with till the 
mischief is irremediable. 

Even at this eleventh hour, many bad habits may be corrected 
— many good habits fostered — many dispositions to disorder 
checked. Those causes which tend to induce obesity or corpu- 
lence generally, tend to induce fulness of the vessels of the brain. 



0BK6ITY. 177 

and to weakness of those vessels. Congestions in other organs, 
as the lungs, liver, &c. are also the usual consequences of cor- 
pulence. And what are these causes } Indulgence of the appe- 
tite and of indolence. The latter, indeed, is the natural sequence 
of the former. In the eighth Septenniad, luxurious eating and 
drinking incapacitate us for a proper degree of bodily exercise, 
and take away all desire for it. The evil is increased by the de- 
clining powers of digestion, at a period when the excitement 
resulting from indulgences of the table is most relished. Hence 
the great organs become oppressed, not only by the too great 
daily supply, but by the remains of preceding repasts still linger- 
ing in the body. The best remedies or preventives will not be 
adopted by one in one thousand — temperance and exercise. But 
many will adopt the second best means of preventing diseases 
and premature death. These are, light food and drink, with con- 
stant attention to the great safety-valve — the bowels. To which 
ought to be added, exercise, either active or passive, daily, be- 
tween breakfast and dinner. If, in the eighth Septenniad, when 
a disposition to corpulency appears, attended with any of the 
warnings already mentioned, the individual does not, at once, 
abandon turtle-soup and Champagne, and confine himself to fish, 
poultry, game, and pudding, with a moderate portion of light 
wine, daily aperient medicine, and exercise in the open air, he may 
calculate on a visitation, in that or the next Septenniad, of apo- 
plexy, paralysis, dropsy, or other disease that will cut short the 
thread of existence, — or render life a burthen instead of a 
blessing. 

This is the admonition of long experience and extensive ob- 
servation. It is a prescription without a fee, and worth at least 
three times the price of the book in which it is contained. If 
adopted, it will save many a valuable life — prevent many a 
domestic calamity — and insure much indiNndual happiness. 



178 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

GOUT.* 

Gout, like consumption, is often hereditary — often acquired; 

In the former disease we are punished for the sins of our fore- 
fathers — in the latter, for their misfortunes! — -This seems hard; 
but so it is. Large volumes have been written on this painful 
malady — not perhaps with the object, but certainly with the 
effect, of mystifying its natiire, obscuring its causes, and compli- 
cating its treatment. In a very few pages may be concentrated 
most of what is really known, and much of what can be honestly 
communicated respecting this dire affliction. It is a near relative 
— perhaps the original representative of the Patho-Proteian family 
already described in this Essay. It is, in general, the offspring 
of INDULGENCE and INDOLENCE, though often acknowledging 
many other parents. Every one of those numerous causes which 
lead to INDIGESTION, may be classed as contributaries to gout. 
Cullen defined it an hereditary disease — and indeed it pretty regu- 
larly descends with encumbered estates, thus forming the dupli- 
cate title to disorder of body and anxiety of mind. In earlier 
periods, gout was a badge of nobiUty — or at least of riches ; for 
affluence only could afford to be luxurious. Afterwards com- 
merce brought wealth, and the means of pampering the appetite, 
with ample causes for impairing the digestion. Gout then des- 
cended a step lower in the world, and extended its ravages much 
wider in society. Still later, civilization and refinement intro- 
duced additional sorrows and vexations of spirit : — and, now, the 
once proud badge of ancestral pride and hereditary honours is 
affixed to the most mushroom escutcheons — nay, it pays its un- 
welcome visits to the cottage of the peasant and the workshop of 
the mechanic ! 

Gout, whether hereditary or acquired, is only the last link in a 

* The location of this disease in any particular Septenniad is rather arbi- 
trary. It has been witnessed in all periods of life, from infancy to old age. 
Its causes are often laid very early; but, generally speaking, it is a disorder 
that displays itself most conspicuously after the meridian of life — after the 
fifth or sixth Septenniad. I have placed it in the eighth Septenniad, as that 
in which it begins to press heavily on the constitution. — ith Edition. 



GOUT. 179 

long chain of morbid phenomena, to which it generally proves 
a crisis for the time. It seldom explodes without premonitory 
symptoms and adequate causes. The causes are all those which 
disorder the digestive organs — but chiefly luxurious diet and in- 
dolence. The regular drunkard is seldom the subject of gout. 
He becomes the prey of liver disease, and dies of dropsy. It is 
on the gourmand that gout falls most heavily ; though when the 
hereditary taint is strong, the most rigid temperance and the 
most systematic exercise will not always stave off the evil. They 
will greatly mitigate its severity, however, and amply repay the 
sacrifice that is made. But causes the most varied and opposite 
will derange the process of digestion — and this disturbance will, 
in a small number, induce gout — in the multitude, it will pro- 
duce a worse evil — the Proteian malady — the hydra-headed 

DYSPKPST. 

In respect to the premonitory or warning symptoms, they are 
those of indigestion — flatulence, acidity, distention of stomach, 
failure of appetite, disrelish of accustomed food, constipation, 
secretion of uric acid in the kidneys, depression of spirits, irri- 
tability of temper, troubled sleep, &c. &c. &c. It is curious, 
however, that, in a few instances, just before the attack, the feel- 
ing of health is stronger than usual, as if Nature wound herself 
up, and collected all her energies for the approaching conflict. 

In the simpler forms and earlier attacks of gout, the pain comes 
on in the night, usually in the great toe, but sometimes in the 
heel or instep. The agony resembles that of a dislocated joint — 
and symptoms of febrile movements soon succeed, as chilliness,, 
quickness of pulse, and thirst. The paroxysm gradually increases 
in intensity for 1§ or 20 hours, abating a little the next evening, 
to be renewed in the night with absence of all chance of sleep or 
rest. The afflicted victim is incessantly shifting his position, 
without ever attaining ease ! Towards morning of the second 
day, there is often a remission, or even solution of the fit, where 
the constitution is good, and the malady recent. But the attacks 
vary from 24 hours to as many days, the intervals of immunity 
being'also of various duration, from two or three years, to three 
or four months, or even weeks. 



180 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

At first, the paroxysm is succeeded by a renewed state of health 
and vigour, and the foot is not at all disabled ; but, in process of 
time, as the paroxysms become multiplied and lengthened, suc- 
cessive joints are invaded, till at length the feet and hands are 
rendered almost useless, and converted into mis-shapen masses. 
The enemy now invests the citadels of life, the heart, brain, or 
stomach, and carries off its victims in one of these unequal com- 
bats ! 

Sydenham, who suffered 35 years from gout, has detailed a 
host of minute and anomalous symptoms which precede or ac- 
company gout, and modern authors have extended the catalogue. 
But a great proportion of these ailments had no necessary con- 
nexion with gout itself, but were the effects of its causes — 
namely, disorders of the digestive organs. But this supposed 
connexion led, and every day leads to most injurious measures 
of treatment. Gout being considered as a critical elimination of 
some peccant humour in the body, cordials, stimulants, and gene- 
rous diet were exhibited by way of keeping up the energy of the 
constitution, and throwing off the evil by a paroxysm of the 
malady. In this way, gout was increased in force, and accele- 
rated in its returns, instead of being prevented by the withdrawal 
of its causes. The Portland powders did mischief enough in 
their day. The tonics and bitters of our own times are only 
diflFerent modes of doing similar mischief. 

As prevention is better than cure, and as fuU feeding and in- 
dolent habits are the chief causes of gout, so temperance and 
exercise are the most certain preventives. Those who inherit the 
gouty constitution have the greatest need of early habits of sim- 
plicity of diet. There is no necessity for extreme abstinence, for 
this indeed would often do more harm than good. He who wishes 
to avoid the pains and penalties of gout, should dine almost 
always on tender meat and stale bread, eaten very slowly, and 
drink weak brandy and water, or moderately of good sherry wine. 
The quantity should be guided by the feelings of the individual. 
The golden rule is to avoid satiety, and to leave off with the 
power of eating more. In fine, the same diet that prevents or 
cures indigestion is strictly applicable to gout. All food of diffi- 



GOUT. 181 

cult digestion, all acids, and, in general, malt liquors should be 
avoided, though the quantity is of still more consequence than 
the QUALITY of our nutriment. This simplicity and temperance 
of diet is within the reach of all — though only a few will adopt it 
till too late. Exercise is also within the power of many — not of 
all. Where neither the one nor the other will be adopted or 
steadily pursued, there are artificial means of greatly lessening the 
gouty disposition, and greatly mitigating the force of the pa- 
roxysms.* 

Where regular (not violent) exercise cannot or will not be taken, 
frictions are a kuid of substitute. By these simple means I have 
known many who have warded off, or considerably mitigated the 
paroxysms of gout. They are means which cannot do injury in 
almost any constitution. 



TREATMENT DURING AN ATTACK. 

In former times, from some indefinite idea that gout threw out 
some peccant humour from the constitution, and thus gave it a 

* The following preventives have succeeded better than any other merely 
remedial means. The bowels should be regulated by No. I, taken every 
second or third night, according to the strength of the predisposition. No. 2 
should be taken once a fortnight, or once a month, according to the heredi- 
tary or acquired tendency. 

No. 1. |t). Ext. col. comp. 

Pil. rhei comp aa 5S8. 

— Hydrarg gr. viij. 

Ipecac, pulv gr. iv. 

01. carui gt. v. 

Ft. pil. xvj. Capt. ij. alternis vel tertiis noctibus. 

No. 2. p>. Infus. rhei Jiss. 

Magnes. carb gr. x. 

Tart, sodae 3ij. 

Vini colchic nxx. 

Tinct. rhei comp. . . jj. 

sennse comp, jj. 

Ft. haustus primo mane sumendus. Semel vol bis in mense. 

R 



182 ECONOMY OF HBALTH. 

kind of temporary renovation, the mode of treatment, by " patience 
and flannel," protracted and exasperated the attacks. In modem 
times, men ran into the contrary extreme. They plunged the feet 
into cold water, and leeched the parts as if afl^ected by common 
inflammation after a wound or contusion. This latter plan, though 
it often cut short the paroxysm in strong constitutions and in 
primary attacks, yet it also did sometimes transfer the gout from 
the extremities to an internal organ, and thus endangered or 
destroyed life. A more rational doctrine led to a less dangerous 
j)nictice. A medium has been adopted that avoids both extremes. 
When the attack takes place, the inflamed part should be kept 
constantly wet with a spirituous lotion appUed warm, and the 
clothes wetted whenever they get dry.* 

By keeping a loose flannel over the wetted clothes, the parts 
will be constantly in a kind of vapour-bath, and the pain and in- 
flammation will be greatly mitigated and curtailed. Leeches will 
seldom be necessary, except in young people, or in plethoric con- 
stitutions. This is all the topical treatment that is necessary. 
The farrago of local applications is sheer charlatanism. 

But the chief means of safely curtailing the paroxysm of gout 
are by internal remedies. These must vary under diflferent states 
of constitution, but the remedies mentioned below are those which 
may be safely employed in almost every case, though others may 
be occasionally necessary .f 

* The following is a safe and efficient application : — 

^. Liq. ammon. acet jiv. 

Mist, camphors Jvj. 

Spir. vin. tenuis jj. 

Misce fiat lotio. 

t At Night. 
1^. Pulv. ipecacuanha comp. gr. x. 

Sub. hydrargyri gr. y. 

Pulv. zingibcris gr. y. 

Ft. pulvis, hora somni sumendus ex vehiculo crasso. 

In the Morning. 

P>. Infusi rhei Jiv. 

Pulv. rhei 9j. 



GOUT. 183 

The paroxysm will often be carried off by one or two doses of 
this medicine. If not, it may be repeated for three or four nights 
and mornings. If the attack is not reduced by that time, patience 
and milder means must be employed till the disease has expended 
its violence. These means must be left to the discretion of the 
attendant practitioner. 

But it must ever be borne in mind that the remedies for the 
actual paroxysm of gout only repel the enemy for a time. He 
will speedily return, unless the preventive means of temperance 
and exercise, with all those precautions which are necessary for 
the prevention of indigestion, be steadily kept in force. It is 
through the medium of the digestive organs that gout is developed, 
and consequently it is by keeping them in the best possible order, 
that the malady is prevented.* 

Tart, sodse jiij. 

Vini colchici 5J. 

Magnesiae carb gr. xv. 

Tinct. rhei compos ^iij . 

sennse 3iy. 

jalapse jiss. 

Misce ft. mistura, capiat tertian partem primo mane, et repetetur dosis 

alternis horis donee alvus respondeat. 
* As I have entered into a minute detail of the means of preventing and 
remedying indigestion in a work which has gone through ten editions, it 
would be useless to enter upon the subject more at large in this place, espe- 
cially as that work is more widely diffused than this can ever hope to be. 



184 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

NINTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[56 to 63 years.'] 

GRAND CLIMACTERIC. 

In the ascent of a mountain, our steps are slow, and the miles 
appear long; but in the descent on the other side, our paces 
are quick, and the space which we traverse seems short. It is 
so in the journey of human life. In youth, and before the meri- 
dian is attained, each year appears almost as long as a Septen- 
niad. In the decline of life, each Septenniad seems little more 
than a year ! It is in the latter, or post meridiem part of the 
journey, that we begin to notice the swiftness of time, and to 
appreciate duly the value, as well as the shortness of life ! Every 
day offers materials for reflection on the past, and retrospection 
instinctively veers round to prospective glances into the future. 
It is said by the poet that — 

" Heaven from all creatures hides the book of fate, 
All but the page prescribed— their present state." 

This is perfectly true, as respects animals ; but does not strictly 
apply to man. The ox and the sheep see their companions 
slaughtered, without any apprehension of death. The startling 
sight of blood, and the groans or struggles of their murdered 
mates, occasion terror, and prompt them to escape — not from 
death, but from injury. The love of life and the fear of death 
are different things. The former is instinctive, and is implanted 
as strongly in the breast of the meanest reptile, as in that of 
man himself. The latter is rational and pecuhar to man — the 
only animal who learns that he must die — and the only animal 
who beheves that there is another world, where his actions in 
this one may be taken into account. It is very true that man 
knows not the when and the where he is to " shuffle off this 
mortal coil ; " but every insurance office can inform him, with 
much more precision and truth than the oracle of Apollo, what 
is the probable number of his days. In this Septenniad, indeed. 



GRAND CLIMACTERIC. 185 

the most obtuse intellect cannot help percehong the annual — 
almost the monthly descent of his oldest friends and acquaint- 
ances into the grave. This is not noticed in the earlier Sep- 
tenniads, because, in fact, there is not then such a marked 
mortahty amongst those of our own age, and consequently 
amongst those with whom we are most intimately acquainted. 
But, after the meridian, our attention is strongly drawn to the 
lapses of life, occurring amongst personages whose images are 
irrevocably implanted in our memories ; — and sombre reflection 
on the shortness and instability of human existence is un- 
avoidable. 

In this Septenniad, the love of money takes the decided lead 
over the love of sex — and even over ambition. We see, indeed, 
occ£isional — perhaps too many — alliances between January and 
May, at this period ; but they are unhallowed unions, destined 
soon to dissolve ! When Love, at the age of 60, pushes aside 
Ambition and Avarice, it is the ghost of boyish passion resusci- 
tated for a moment from the grave — and, like other ghosts, soon 
to vanish from the stage. 

But the most important feature of the Ninth Septenniad is, 
the Grand Climacteric — an epoch that has been regarded, in 
all ages, with something hke mysterious awe, as the most critical 
in human life. Popular opinions of this kind are generally based 
on observation, however inaccurate, and are rarely the offspring 
of mere fancy, or a superstitious combination of numbers. Nine 
times seven forms a remarkable — indeed an appalling multiple, 
and very few can apply it to themselves, vnthout feelings of the 
penseroso kind ! 

But the " Grand Climacteric " is not merely a popular 
superstition ; it has engaged the attention, and occupied the pen 
of a modem physician of great distinction. As the Essay was 
written more than twenty years ago, it wants that development 
which Sir Henry Halford's further experience would have rendered 
more valuable. It is not my intention, however, to draw from 
any other source than the evidence of my own senses on this 
occasion. 

The changes in tiie balance of the constitution which began to 

b2 



186 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

shew themselves rather unequivocally in the Eighth Septenniad, 
become but too conspicuous, as the age of 60 is touched, in a 
great majority of both sexes. The Ninth Septenniad is clearly the 
" fifth age " of Shakespeare, typified by the " Justice," possessed 
of a portly corporation, " with good capon lined " — 

" With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, 
Full of wise saws and modern instances." 

Where corpulency does not obtain at this period, a contrary 
state not unfrequently commences. The fluids of the body 
diminish in quantity — the softer parts shrink — and the solid 
parts, as bones, cartilages, ligaments, &c. become more con- 
densed than ever. The vessels conveying the blood from the 
heart to all parts of the body, begin to partially ossify (as it is 
commonly termed), and are thus greatly weakened at the junction 
of the indurated with the elastic portions, rendering them liable 
to give way from distention or pressure. The cartilages of the 
ribs being turned into bone, the chest loses much of its expansive 
and contractile capabilities, and the breathing is less easy, espe- 
cially when the body is in motion. The joints grow stiff, and 
the muscles get flaccid. All the senses become much more obtuse 
— and the various appetites greatly diminished — some of them be- 
ing almost annihilated. By short-sighted man this diminution of 
enjoyment, in the exercise of the senses and appetites, is keenly 
deplored, though it is wisely ordained by the Omniscient Archi- 
tect. Were the appetites to remain unimpaired, while the mate- 
rial fabric is necessarily, but gradually breaking dovvm, the weak- 
ened organs would be overpowered — and sudden death, or painful 
maladies would be the consequence. This is sometimes the case, 
even as it is, when the appetites are stimulated by provocatives, 
and the tide of enjoyment swells beyond the channels which were 
destined to confine it. 

About this period, too, the teeth, in a vast majority of people, 
become deficient in number, and very inadequate to the impor- 
tant function of mastication — while digestion, already weakened, 
is thus greatly embarrassed, by the additional labour imposed 
on the stomach. All the internal organs growing more torpid. 



ORANO CLIMACTEBIC. 187 

the secretions necessarily get more scanty. The skin itself be- 
comes more dry, shrivelled, and wrinkled — the veins are enlarged 
and blue, slowly propelling the vital current towards the heart. 
In fine, every structure and function in the body shew clear 
and unequivocal marks of deterioration, gradually, but steadily 
increasing ! 

Nor do the intellectual faculties remain unaffected, though 
they do not always evince a strict correspondence with the failure 
of corporeal functions. Imagination, wit, and memory may flag ; 
but judgment, understanding, and wisdom remain firm as a rock. 
Sixty years' experience indeed of human vicissitudes converts 
temerity into caution — sanguine hope into cool calculation — 
castles in the air into habitations a little (and but a little) more 
durable on earth — credulity into doubt — confidence into suspicion 
— prodigality into parsimony — and contempt of danger into timi- 
dity and love of life. 

These and various other changes, moral and physical, are so 
gradual that they cannot be measured by any standard of days, 
weeks, or months — scarcely indeed of years. But, whether from 
original defect in the organization, accidental injuries sustained 
in the journey, or, what is more common, from overworking 
of the living machine, it not unfrequently happens that, about 
the Ninth Septenniad (sometimes sooner sometimes later), a 
marked alteration takes place in the rate of progression, or 
rather retrogression. In the course of a single year, nay of 
a few months, the physiognomy will present a singular and 
inauspicious look of deterioration. The character of expression 
in the countenance is changed — the features are pinched — the 
^e is lack-lustre — the strength is greatiy diminished — the flesh 
wasted or bloated — the voice feeble — the gait imfirm — the appe- 
tite in abeyance — the thirst often troublesome — the spirits un- 
accountably depressed; and all this, without any tangible or 
visible disease, to explain the sudden declension of the various 
physical powers ! 

This is the Climacteric itself; but not the CUmacteric dis- 
ease. The functions are greatly impaired ; but no vital organ 
has, as yet, been affected in structure. Tlie truth is, that the 



1^ 



ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 



organs of daily supply are now inadequate to repair the daily waste 
— and the laws of vitality are no longer able to counteract the 
chemical laws of decomposition. The whole material fabric is 
therefore gradually crumbUng down. But I believe that very few 
touch the final goal of existence in this way — at least I have seen 
no example of the kind. This general dilapidation — this uni- 
versal decadence of functional power having obtained, for a longer 
or shorter period, some particular organ or class of organs, gives 
way in function or structure more than the others, and then we 
have the " Climacteric disease." Thus the absorbents are fre- 
quently the first to fail in their oflUce, — the ancles swell — and 
eflfusions take place into the cavities of the brain, chest, or abdo- 
men, with corresponding symptoms. If the effusion be in the 
head, we have drowsiness, loss of memory, thickness of speech, 
diminution of muscular power, pEirtial paralysis — and finally, apo- 
plexy of the watery kind. 

If the effusion be in the chest, we have cough, embarrassed 
respiration, inability to lie low in bed, breathlessness in ascending 
stairs, &c. &c. If the effusion be in the abdomen, dropsy is the 
" Climacteric disease." If the organs of digestion and nu- 
trition be the first to give way (which is very often the case), then 
we have atrophy or general wasting of the body — ending in drop- 
sical effusions. 

But it not infrequently happens that the heart itself is the 
organ on which the " Climacteric disease" falls. It becomes 
enlarged in size, softened in structure, thinned in its walls, and 
imperfect in its valves. The effects of this disease are far more 
conspicuous in the function of respiration than in that of the 
circulation. As at the time Sir Henry Halford wrote, we had not 
the means of distinguishing diseases of the heart, by the stethos- 
cope, which we now have, so the " climacteric disease" has 
probably been supposed to fall on the lungs when the heart was 
the seat of disease.* In the course of a long experience I have 

♦ " Of the various immediate causes to which this malady may owe its 
commencement, there is none more frequent than a common cold." 

" When it combines itself with a common cold, the symptoms of catarrh 



CLIMACTERIC DISEASE. 189 

met with few instances of this kind. In those cases where the 
lungs were apparently affected, the heart was the organ primarily 
and essentially diseased. Every experienced practitioner, indeed, 
is now well aware of this fact. At the period alluded to, asthma 
was generally considered an affection of the lungs alone : — at 
present, it is known that, in nine cases out of ten, it is attributa- 
ble to, or combined with, disease of the heart. 

And here we have a most important subject to consider. In 
the climacteric decline, and before any one particular organ breaks 
up — when we have a great deterioration of several functions, 
without marked disease of any one structure, — is there any chance 
of checking the progress of decay, or staving off, for a time at 
least, the climacteric disease ? This question is not so easily 
solved, even by experience, as might be expected — and for this 
reason — ^that all the phenomena of the climacteric decline occa- 
sionally present themselves in people who are very far short of 
the ninth Septenniad — and where recovery often takes place. 
There is no reason why the same might not occur in the climacr 
teric period, and yet not be the climacteric decline. There is a 
curious imitation of the Grand Climacteric that manifests itself 
among young women, from the age of 20 to 30 years, and which 
I have often observed. They appear to be fine plump healthy 
girls till the above period, when they begin to lose flesh, droop in 
spirits, grow languid and pale, with defective appetite, torpid 
secretions, and, in short, a general break up of the health, without 
any evident cause — without any tangible disease of organ or 
function. It is seldom fatal, though I have known it go on till 
death closed the scene. More frequently it takes a turn for the 
better — sometimes without any apparent reason — more often from 
some love-fit — or marriage — or time, which cures love-melancholy, 
as well as this erotic decline. Though the cause of this pseudo, 
or premature climacteric is not always apparent, its real nature 
rarely escapes the notice of the experienced physician. It is little 
under the control of drugs ! 



continue to manifest themselves, and to predominate throughout the greater 
part of the duration of the climacteric disease." — Sir H. Halford. 



190 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

Whenever the state of society or the times we live in produces 
an unusual number of old maids, WQ are sure to find on the sick- 
list, a proportionate number of young maidens. Who does not 
daily visit families where three, four, or five beautiful and amiable 
young ladies, from sixteen to six-and-twenty years of age, are 
seen sitting round the work-table, or iterating mechanical music 
at the piano, from month to month — from year to year — " Nobody 
coming to woo." 

Is it wonderful that this monotonous life, this cheerless pros- 
pect, should make serious impression on the sensitive minds of 
these young creatures ? We see the lily gradually usurp the 
place of the rose, on some of their cheeks — and the state of health 
which I have just described, steal slowly over the drooping frame. 
The parents take alarm — the best advice which the town can 
afford, is procured — bark, steel, myrrh, camphor, and assafoetida 
are swallowed — and even good old Port ; but in vain ! The bloom 
of health refuses to return to the faded cheek — and the doctor is 
blamed for the inefficacy of physic ! 

There is but one remedy that promises any advantage in such 
cases — and that is exercise. The sedentary life which young 
females lead, and the avocations of music, painting, reading, &c. 
are all injurious ; and nothing but gradually-increased exercise of 
the body in the open air offers a chemce of checking the moping 
melancholy of hope deferred and expectations blighted ! 

But to return from this short digression. In several instances 
that have come under my own observation, and where all the 
symptoms of the climacteric decline — and that after the age of 60 
— were unequivocal, the constitution has rallied, at least for some 
years, and the individuals have died at last of other diseases. 
This has happened where especial care was taken-— 

" To husband out Life's taper at its close, 
And keep the flame from wasting by repose." 

It was not, by repose, however, in the ordinary acceptation of the 
term — by reclining on the sofa — and stimulating a jaded appetite 
by provocatives. The farrago of tonics, cordials, and nutri- 
ments, in such cases, only tend to consume the pabulum of life 



CLIMACTERIC DISEASE. 191 

more rapidly, and extinguish the flame more quickly. The repose 
ifi that of passive motion in a carriage — if possible in an open 
one — ^perpetually changing the air and scene. It is now nearly 
twenty years since my attention was strongly drawn to the sub- 
ject, by a remarkable example. A gentleman near the close of 
the Ninth Septenniad, suddenly fell off, with all the symptoms of 
the climacteric decline — and some symptoms that indicated the 
commencement of even the climacteric disease. A favourable 
season presented itself — he was rolled along in an open carriage, 
dsuly, for three months, and over a space of 3000 miles. He 
recovered flesh and strength, and was killed by an accident two 
years afterwards. Since that period, I have ascertained that 
several similar instances of recovery have taken place, by a similar 
procedure ; and I have no doubt that this remedy, where it can 
be procured, is superior to all others on such occasions as the 
present. The remarks which I have made on travelling exercise 
in the open air, will apply to the present subject with force. 

The climacteric disease is not confined to a particular part, or 
a peculiar form. It is the breaking-up of function or structure, 
or both, in ^e weakest organ of the body. "When a function 
totally or principally fails, there can be little doubt that the struc- 
ture of the corresponding organ or part must be more or less 
changed in its molecular organization, though that change may 
not be visible to the eye or demonstrable by the scalpel. 

Although the function of digestion would seem to be the first, 
or amongst the first to fail, in the climacteric disease, yet it does 
not appear to be the one which leads directly to the final issue. 
Defect in assimilation (the conversion of the food into nutritious 
blood), is much more frequently the cause of the emaciation and 
debility, than the mere loss of digestive power. Dropsical eff"u- 
sions into the diff^erent cavities, especially those of the chest and 
head, are the most common foreruimers of death, in the climac- 
teric disease. The former occasion difiiculty of breathing in 
ascending stairs, with some cough and wheezing: — the latter 
render the individual drowsy, stupid, forgetful, torpid, palsied — 
and ultimately apoplectic. 

The heart, as I said before, is not unfrequently the organ on 



192 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

which the climacteric disease falls. It grows flabby in structure 
^-dilated in its cavities — attenuated in its walls — and imperfect 
in its valves. This is the most common cause of the dropsical 
effusions, the difficulty of breathing, the cough — and those symp- 
toms which, at a former period, were set down as affections of 
the lungs. 

It would be a tedious, and, perhaps, useless task, to detail the 
various ways in which the climacteric disease winds up the 
drama of human life. The function of the kidneys often fails, 
with corresponding change in their structure and secretion. This 
is a form of the climacteric disease which has been much over- 
looked, but which is now attracting considerable attention. The 
same may be said of the liver. Defective function in this organ 
prostrates the strength, and reduces the flesh, in a most extraor- 
dinary manner. It arrests nutrition, and thus subverts the powers 
of life, without producing any very marked phenomena that might 
awaken suspicion as to the cause.* 

It is humiliating to confess that, in climacteric diseases, pal- 
liatives only can be offered by the most skilful physician — and 
it is little less painful to observe the amount of mischief which 
is every day inflicted on humanity by rashness, empiricism, and 
ignorance, in such cases. Modem researches in morbid anatomy, 
have not enabled us to cure diseases that were previously incu- 

* Since the second edition of this work was issued, an interesting case 
occurred in the practice of the author, which is worthy of notice. A gen- 
tleman, aged 60, who was rather corpulent, and had been something of a 
" bon vivant," began to complain of weakness and a sense of load or oppres- 
sion at the pit of the stomach. This symptom continued for seven years — 
namely, till the day of his death. He was examined by several of the most 
eminent physicians and surgeons of the metropolis, and no one could detect 
any local or organic disease. He gradually, though exceedingly slowly 
emaciated, with a more than corresponding loss of strength. Still the " load 
at the pit of the stomach" was his only complaint. No tumour — no tendei- 
ness could be detected there. He presented, in fact, during the last two years 
of his life, an apparently excellent picture of the climacteric decline. He took 
to his bed at last, and after three or four months' confinement, died. We 
were all anxious to examine the body, and free permission was given. The 
heart and lungs were sound. The gall-bladder contained more than fifty 



CLIMACTEBIC DISBASE. 198 

rable ; but they have shewn us what are and what are not sus- 
ceptible of remedy. We are thus guarded against doing harm ; 
whilst the vinprincipled charlatan, having no such check on his 
presumption, administers powerful drugs (for they are not reme- 
dies) in complete ignorance of the nature of the malady, and thus 
precipitates his victim into the grave, or, what is worse, aggra- 
vates his sufferings, during the remainder of his life ! 

Death, from the climacteric malady, is generally easy — and 
often sudden, at last. As will be shewn farther on, it is, as nearly 
as possible, the death of Nature, which is always easy — ante- 
dated, indeed, a few years, as to time, and considerably abridged 
as to duration. There is here no violent struggle between a 
sound constitution and an accidental illness. It is like the 
crumbling down, stone after stone, of an ancient castle, compared 
with the demolition of the same edifice, at an earlier period, by 
catapultae or cannon. As the mantling ivy procrastinates the 
fate of the tottering tower ; so, change of air and scene, with the 
mildest restoratives, will sometimes prolong the existence of the 
drooping human fabric, and add a zest to the cup of enjoyment 
till the bowl of life is drained ! 

But the cUmacteric disease is not the only, or even the chief 
malady of the Ninth Septenniad. Before this period, the balance 
of the constitution begins to be materially altered, and the head 

gall-stones of various sizes. The stomach was not diseased. But the most 
remarkable phenomenon was a total disorganization of the psoas muscle, on 
the left side, which was converted into a bag of the most putrid and oflfensive 
matter, so that no trace of the muscular structure was left. This must have 
been the eflfect of a long time — perhaps some years. Yet so slow was its 
growth that he never complained of pain in that side, till the day of his death ! 
The gall-stones, no doubt, occasioned the sense of " load at the stomach," 
which he complained of for seven years, but no jaundice was produced by 
them, because they never got into the ducts, so as to obstruct the flow of bile 
into the intestines. 

Here then was an apparent " climacteric disease," which, without the light 
of a post-mortem examination, would have been put down as a gradual break- 
up of the constitution independent of any local disease. Yet there is not a 
doubt that the gall-stones occasioned his long-standing misery of " load at 
the stomach," while the lumbar abscess was the cause of his death. 

S 



194 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

encounters many dangers, not only from its own vessels, but 
from the affections of other organs, especially the heart and the 
stomach. Apoplexy and paralysis, therefore, are more common 
in this, than in any preceding — or perhaps succeeding epoch of 
existence.* It is now that the man of letters, the statesman, 
the lawyer — all who have worked or over-worked the intellect, 
for years, may dread the failure of its material organ. It was 
in this Septenniad that the " Great Unknown," whose mental 
lucubrations surprised and delighted a hundred millions of the 
human race, experienced the break-up of that brain, by excessive 
labour, which might otherwise have sustained the wear and tear 
of moderate avocation, for many years longer ! Grief and cha- 
grin, no doubt, accelerated the fatal event. The magician's death 
may prove a warning to his survivors, not to expect too much 
from a mechanism so delicately constructed as the material organ 
of the mind.f 

Gout, too, having disabled or deformed the feet and hands, 
begins to shew inclination to attack more vital parts — and, very 
often, this child of luxury and intemperance turns parricide at 
last, and destroys the author of its own existence ! It is now 
too late to think of expelling this offspring of indolence and 
epicurean indulgence, by exercise and abstemiousness. The 
ingrate has his victim in his power, and may be soothed, but 
not bullied. Thousands are annually hurried to their graves by 
the ignorant practice of charlatans who pretend to cure gout at 

* I have placed it, however, at the close of the eighth Septenniad (at the 
age of 5.5 or 6) as a period when it often appears. 

t Sir Walter Scott's tour to Italy was ill-timed and ill-managed. Worn 
down by inordinate mental labour, and depressed by pecuniary losses of no 
mean kind, the excitement of Italy was far too great. Had he travelled in 
cheerful company through the sublime scenes of Switzerland, his health might 
have been recruited, and his brain composed to rest. Italy was the very 
worst place he could have visited in his state of health — and the result was — 
apoplexy, and slow destruction by its sequence, paralysis ! 

Byron undermined his health by excitement, though his premature death 
was occasioned by his own obstinacy in resisting necessary depletion, when 
overtaken by a high degree of inflammation of brain and lungs! He had too 
much confidence in himself, and too little in his medical attendant. 



DISAPPOINTMENTS OF RETIREMENT. 195 

this advanced period of life, by potent medicines that destroy the 
material tenement in the vain attempt to dislodge the enemy by 
force, instead of persuasion. 

At the age of 60, the merchant, the lawyer, the physician — 
the whole of the Bureaucracy, begin to find that labour is not 
such a pleasure as it was twenty years previously. They love 
money as much as ever they did, but the pursuit of it is not 
quite so delightful. Then it is, that they long for retirement in 
the country, and begin to quarrel with the smoke, and dust, and 
foul air of the city and town. They purchase their villa; and, 
for a short time, they are amused with the arrangements and im- 
provements going on around them. Do they remain contented ? 
The Roman bard has answered that question, nearly two thou- 
sand years ago. 

" Rom&e Tibur amem ventosus, Tibure Romam." 

In London, the distant tranquillity of the country seems a fore- 
taste of Paradise. The haven is found ; — but rtutd quietude soon 
begins to wear the aspect of irksome solitude — and solitude proves 
to the mind what starvation is to the body. The pabulum of 
existence seems to be withdrawn from the citizen's mind, and he 
longs for the excitement, the bustle, and the stimulation of the 
metropolis ! This is not the discontent of each with his lot, 
which Horace alludes to, in his celebrated satire. It is the result 
of a physiological, and not a psychological principle. The habits 
of forty years cannot be changed, with impimity, at the Grand 
Climacteric. It is then too late — and it is then too early. Too 
late, to acquire new habits — too early to renounce old ones — the 
decrepitude of age not having then arrived. But as it is very 
dear that the climacteric period is a period of transition, so it 
would be wise to make the change from activity to retirement 
one of gradual, not abrupt transition. Inattention to this has 
been the rock on which many a valuable life has been wrecked 
— and the cause of much happiness being turned into misery. 
Retirement, even at the close of the Ninth Septenniad, requires 
resources which few minds, accustomed to the turmoil of active 



196 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

life, possess. Even the pursuits of literature are feeble sub- 
stitutes for the previous avocations — unless there be something to 
write as well as to read. The passive amusement which works of 
fancy afford, in the perusal, wiU not always keep off ennui — nor 
will books demanding close attention of the mind, compensate 
for the strenuous exertion which that mind had undergone for 
many years in laborious or arduous professions. The mind then 
is unequal to such a task. 

About the period of the Grand Climacteric, various moral and 
physical causes combine to produce a considerable depression of 
spirits, often amounting to a degree of melancholy. The decline 
of our corporeal powers would alone induce more or less of this 
dejection of mind ; but there are many other causes. Very few 
pass the sixtieth year, without experiencing great tribulations 
and disappointments, hbwever prosperous may have been their 
worldly affairs. They must have lost fathers, mothers, brothers, 
sisters, children — and a great majority of their nearest and 
dearest friends, as well as of their oldest and best-remembered 
acquaintances ! The farther we advance on Time's list, the 
more numerous become these mementos of our own doom ; — 
and reflection on the daUy ebb of human existence around us, 
cannot fail to cast a settled gloom, however slight, over the pros- 
pect in advance ! 

This natural and inevitable depression of spirits is greatly 
aggravated by the sudden transition from activity to idleness, in 
retirement from avocation, whatever that avocation may have 
been. Many examples of this kind have come within my know- 
ledge — some of them tragical — some ludicrous — and some tragi- 
comic. There are few who cannot call to mmd instances of this 
description. I shall only allude to one. 

A gentleman, of great talent and industry, who had amassed 
a princely fortune in an honourable profession, and established 
an enviable reputation, said to himself, as he closed his sixtieth 
year ; — " Now is the time, when my riches are ample, my facvJ- 
ties unclouded, my health unimpaired, to retire from the turmoil 
of business, and spend the rest of my days among woods and 



DISAPPOINTMENTS OF RETIREMENT. 197 

lawns, meadows and cornfields, with Nature smiling round me, 
and the air itself carrying the balm of salubrity on its wings." — 
The suggestion was quickly put into execution. A magnificent 
villa, ample park, and beautiful pleasure-grounds soon owned a 
new master. The honeymoon of rustic life and rural felicity 
glided smoothly away, in viewing his domain and receiving visits 
from the neighbouring gentry. He often exclaimed in the words 
of the poet — 

How bless'd the man who crowns, in shades like these, 
A youth of labour with an age of ease ! 

But, in a few months, he began to feel that he wanted something, 
though he knew hot what. Like Miranda, on the enchanted 
island, there was a link deficient in the chain of contentment. 
And what was this undefined something ? It was the "flattering 
unction" which, for thirty years, had been daily applied to the 
soul by dependents, clients, friends, and the pubUc. For this the 
luxuries of the table, the sports of the field, and the beauties of 
Nature, could not ofier a substitute. The incense that is long 
poured out at the shrine of Fame — no matter how high or low 
the station in life — from the mean mechanic up to the inspired 
bard — ^becomes, in time, as necessary to the happiness of the 
mind, as food is essential to the existence of the body. This 
principle was overlooked, or not understood by the talented indi- 
vidual in question ; but it did not fail the less to operate. Another 
element, soon afterwards, came into play. The novelty of the 
rural scene wore out, notwithstanding the excursions into the 
neighbouring districts — and satiety was the consequence. But 
satiety to a mind long accustomed to activity or adulation, rests 
not stationary. It passes into disgust — too often into despair.* 
The stately oaks of the park, instead of exciting sensations of 

* Reflection too, for which the active man, in full employment, has little 
leisure, becomes, in retirement, a source of misery. The mind dwells on the 
sombre scenes of declining life, and has not the means of escaping from its 
own melancholy anticipations amid the bustle of human intercourse I 

s2 



198 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

pride and pleasure, suggested at length the horrible idea of sui- 
cide ! Had not a prudent, and somewhat precipitate retirement, 
from the country to the city, been effected, it is highly probable 
that the lord of the manor wovJd, ere long, have been found sus- 
pended from one of his own trees ! He tugs at the oar to this 
hour, though he has rounded his 70th Winter — ^not for love of 
lucre, but from fear of ennui.* 

This principle, propensity, or whatever it may be called, extends 
even to the brute creation. f It is not a disease in itseK, but it 
leads to disease, and even to death. It is a kind of nostalgia. 
The Swiss longs to return to his mountains — the merchant to his 
counting-house — the lawyer to his briefs — the physician to his 
patients — the shop-keeper to his counter — the banker to his 
balance-sheet — the broker to the exchange — the pensioner to place 
— the minister to the cabinet — and perhaps, the cidevant monarch 
to the abdicated crown. In fine, almost every human being who 
retires from his avocation or pursuit, in the ninth Septenniad, may 
calculate on experiencing more or less of the nostalgic yearning, 
which will diminish his anticipated happiness, and probably curtail 
the duration of life. 

Tliese observations, founded on some knowledge of msinkind, 
may not be unworthy of consideration by a large class of society 
in this country. The amount of misery produced by a false esti- 
mate of the " otium cum dignitate," is very great indeed. Man is 
fond of variety ; but Nature abhors sudden change. In the tran- 
sition from a life of labour to an age of ease, business and retire- 
ment ought to be dovetailed, and the line of demarcation between 
the two should never be abrupt. In many cases it is less safe to 

* This portrait has been applied to an eminent medical personage. It was 
not drawn from any individual in the medical profession, though probably it 
might apply to several. — Ath Ed. 

t The dog, the cat, every domesticated animal, pines on being removed 
from its accustomed locality and acquaintances. So does the wild animal on 
being introduced to civilization and refinement. The tiger and the vulture 
would infinitely prefer the putrid carcase of a buffaloe, amid the jungles of 
the Sunderbunds, to a choice leg of mutton in the Zoological Gardens. 



BETK08PECTIVK AND PROSPECTIVE VIEWS. 199 

leave business than to allow business to leave us. The latter is 
mortifying ; but the mortification is salutary, because it corrects a 
greater evil than it creates. 

As it is in the ninth Septenniad that we perceive the most 
unequivocal mementos of declining life, so it is in that period that 
we begin seriously to review the past and meditate on the future. 
The retrospective and prospective views are anything but cheer- 
ing. Often before this epoch, we hear and repeat the exclamation 
of Solomon — " all is vanity and vexation" — but it is now that 
we reflect on it, and acknowledge its truth ! When we look 
back as far as memory can stretch, we are forced to admit that 
our toils have been inadequately rewarded in general, and were 
often fruitless — that our hopes have seldom been realized, and 
were always alloyed by our fears and disappointments — in fine, 
that, if our pains and our pleasures, our privations and enjoy- 
ments were put into the scales, the balance would be against the 
latter ! And if this be the case when we have youth, and strength 
and spuits on our side, what have we to expect, when the ener- 
gies of the constitution are fast ebbing, — when infirmities are 
taking their place — when the relish for every enjoyment is gradu- 
ally fading away — in short, when all (or nearly all) the blandish- 
ments of life are gone ! Were it not for strong moral motives, 
and still stronger instinctive impulses, aided by religious feelings, 
man, at this stage of the journey, would be apt to sink into 
apathy, if not despair. But he cainnot pause in his progress to 
the final goal ; on the contrary, he appears to proceed with an 
increased impetus. Hope, too, never entirely deserts the human 
breast — and always sheds a gleam of sunshine over the darkest 
scenes of adversity. Yet even this " angel of life" would not 
.enable the most Stoic philosopher to view the last sad stage of 
human existence, with much serenity of mind. No ! Religion 
only — the Christian hope of immortality in another world, can 
alone fortify man against the ills of this. It is through the influ- 
ence of Religion that man can bear with patience, and even 
cheerfulness, the infirmities of age, and contemplate, without 
terror, that awful and mysterious transition to another state of 



200 ECONOMY OF HfiALTH. 

being, through the agonies of death, the corruption of the grave, 
and the resurrection of the body !* 

* Determined suicides (reason being perfect) were infinitely more prevalent 
under the influence of the Heathen Mythology than under the Christian dis- 
pensation. In the /ormer case, not one of the warriors who rushed upon 
their swords, or the philosophers who swallowed hemlock, believed in the 
popular religion — if religion it could be called. In the latter case, the very 
few who destroy themselves are either sceptics or maniacs. Mr. Whitbread, 
Sir S. Romilly, Lord Castlereagh, among others, laboured under congestion 
or some vascular affections of the head, when they committed suicide. Not 
so, perhaps, Cato, Pompey, and Cleopatra. Since the French revolution, 
when death was determined by the National Assembly to be "everlasting 
sleep," our Gallic neighbours have often imitated the heathen philosophers, 
and wooed the grave as a refuge from realjor imaginary woes ! Although the 
population of Paris is little more than half that of London, the number of 
annual suicides there, is more than double the number that occur on the 
banks of the Thames. The deduction is obvious. 



PORTRAIT OF OLD AGE. 



301 



TENTH SEPTENNIAD. 

[63 to 70 years.'] 

This is apparently the sixth age of Shakespeare. 

The sixth age shifts 
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon. 
With spectacles on nose and pouch on side ; 
His youthful hose well sav'd, a world too wide 
For his shrunk shank — and his big manly voice 
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes 
And whistles in his sound. 

Now if the Bard of Avon had taken Solomon's calculation for 
his text, viz. the " threescore years and ten," — this ought to have 
been his seventh age, or " last scene of all." But it is impossible 
to reconcile Shakespeare with Solomon — nor is the poet's des- 
cription very easily reconciled with any computation of the life of 
man, whether by septenniads or decenniads. It is very certain 
that Shakespeare's sixth age does not accurately correspond with 
the last seven years of life according to Solomon's calculation. 
The above description would be quite strong enough for the seven 
years that succeed the " three score and ten." The very survival 
of the " Grand CUmacteric" — without any specific or mortal 
malady having presented itself at that epoch, argues an originally 
sound constitution ; and, whatever the actuaries may say, I beUeve 
that the Tenth, or last Septenniad of the Solomonian computation 
is more secure from casualties than the First, or infantile Sep- 
tenniad. At birth, we are exposed to a host of known and 
unknown diseases which snap the tender thread of life at a fearful 
rate. From sixty-three to seventy, we are exposed to rather less 
than the ordinary wear and tear of life, together with those natural 
organic changes which ultimately stop the wheels of the machine, 
no doubt, but which are productive of little additional embarrass- 
ment during the last of the ten Septenniads. 

According to our experience at present, the sixth age of 



202 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

Shakespeare would apply to the Eleventh rather than to the 
Tenth Septenniad — and his seventh age is now only seen in 
extreme senectitude — say at 80 years and upwards. No such 
thing as " second childishness and mere oblivion" occurs at 70, 
or even 75, unless from disease or idiotism. Some solution 
of this may be found in the fact that, even since the days of 
Shakespeare, the value of life (to use the language of the in- 
surance offices) has increased at least seven years : — that is to 
say, the probable duration of life is seven years longer now than 
it was two centuries ago, in this country. The calculations may 
have been erroneous, in days of yore, for want of accurate data ; 
but still, there is every probability that longevity is increased 
within the last two centuries. 

In respect to Solomon's computation, it is perfectly well known 
that, in hot climates, and especially in the eastern world, the 
average duration of human existence is at least seven years below 
the average of northern regions. This, indeed, is not admitted 
by the learned Dr. Prichard, in his erudite physical history of 
mankind ; but the doctor had a theory to support by the doctrine 
of equality of life all over the world, and probably leaned a little 
too far to those facts that favoured his own hypothesis. 

The changes which occur in the Tenth Septenniad, are per- 
haps less remarkable than in either of the two preceding epochs, 
whether we regard the observations of the spectator or the 
feelings of the individual. The functions, however, continue to 
diminish progressively in activity — the bones become more dry 
and brittle — the cartilages more bony — the muscles more rigid 
— the various circulating fluids more slow in their current — their 
channels less elastic — the valves of the heart more or less 
indurated — the great arteries partially ossified — the circulation of 
the blood feeble and irregular, or too strong for the vessels, 
according as the heart is in a state of atrophy or morbid en- 
largement — the joints get stiff and sometimes contracted — the 
head droops forward, from absorption of the intervertebral sub- 
stance — the skin becomes more and more wrinkled, from the 
general shrinking of the whole body — the eyes sink deeper in 
their sockets, and become flatter, requiring glasses of augmenting 



PORTRAIT OF OLD AGE. 20S 

powers — the humours of the eye axe less limpid, and the lustre 
is gone — what remains of the hair is now white, or even silvery 
— the tears flow from the sUghtest mental emotion or external 
irritation* — the appetite loses all its keenness, and the power of 
digestion is greatly impaired, because little is now necessary to 
recruit the trifling daily waste of the corporeal fabric — the secre- 
tions and excretions are (with certain exceptions) diminished to 
one-half their former amount, in consequence of the inactivity 
of the organs, and the slender inlay of nutriment — the reUsh for 
all enjoyments, intellectual and bodily, fades slowly away, and is 
forgotten, or remembered with a sigh — the sockets of the teeth 
being absorbed, the teeth themselves drop out, and that singular 
feature of senility, the approximation of the nose and chin, 
becomes painfully conspicuous to the byestanderlf The sen- 

* It is generally later than the Tenth Septenniad, but not very unfrequently 
even in it, that we see the melancholy, clever, but unfeeling and sarcastic 
portrait of Blenheim's hero, and Ireland's pride, as drawn by S. Johnson. 
" From Marlbro's eyes the streams of dotage flow. 
And Swift expires a driveller and a show." 

It was not fair in Johnson, to class these two illustrious individuals 
together. Marlbro's infirmity was the natural effect of age — Swift's was 
that of disease — of idiotcy. Cowper's end was still more deplorable, because 
his monomaniacal illusion was religious despair, than which there is not a 
more horrible infliction on humanity 1 The materialist's horror of annihi- 
lation is bad enough, but Cowper's conviction that soul and body would be 
broiled to all eternity in sulphureous flames, was a hell upon earth — happily 
annihilated by the kind hand of death ! It was a great pity that Cowper's 
spiritual advisers had not a foretaste of this insane incineration by a plunge 
into a bath at 150° of Fahrenheit ! Most richly did they deserve it. 

f The premature decay of the teeth in our own times, as compared with 
even fifty years ago, must have arrested the attention of most observers. 
For many years I have been endeavouring to form some calculation of the 
difference, and to account for its causes. I cannot say that I have been 
successful in either case. Suppose out of a large assembly of people we were 
to select the first hundred that had attained the age of 50 years — and then a 
hundred who had attained the age of 30 years. I think we would find as 
many teeth in the heads of the seniors as in the heads of the juniors. This 
ought not to be. There must be some <:ause or causes. The change of habits 
and manners — the increase of sedentary and manufacturing employments, 
may have done something. The indiscriminate use or abuse of calomel. 



204 ECONOMY OF HEALTH, 

sibility of the whole nervous system (including the five special 
senses), grows more and more blunt, and impressions are less 
and less distinct — the brain itself grows smaller, often of softer 
consistence — and the skull experiences changes in its external 
form — the limbs lose all their agility, and muscular motion is slow 
and often painful — the ancles swell — drowsiness is common, 
especially after food ; but sleep in the night is short and imperfect, 
arising no doubt, in a great degree, from the inability to take 
sufficient exercise.* The mucous membranes of the eyes and 
air-passages become relaxed and turgid, effusing tears from the 
former, and phlegm from the latter ; hence the watery eye, drip- 
ping nose, and wheezing respiration. The septuagenarian, or rather 
the octogenarian, then, to use the poet's phrase — 

" Pipes and whistles in his sound." 

especially among children, since the beginning of the present century, may 
have proved no unimportant cause of what a clever American dentist of this 
metropolis calls " devastation of the gums." The people of the United 
States are remarkably prone to early loss of teeth. It is ■well known that they 
swallow enormous doses of calomel on all occasions. 

* It may be laid down as a pretty certain rule that, in each Septenniad of 
human life, the length of time absorbed in sleep gradually diminishes. In 
eaiiy infancy more than three fourths of our hours are passed in profound 
repose — scarcely disturbed by a dream. In manhood, about one third — in 
old age scarcely a fourth of the twenty-four hours is consigned to balmy 
sleep. There is a vulgar and erroneous notion that old people sleep almost 
as much as infants. They doze away a good deal of that time which is 
dedicated to exercise or amusement among the young and middle-aged — but 
it is not sleep, and, in the night they pass many dreary hours in watchfulness 
or unrefreshing slumbers ! This is one of the greatest taxes on old age, and 
severely is it felt ! 

" Sleep, that knits up the ravelled sleeve of care. 
The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath, 
Balm of hurt minds, great Nature's second course. 
Chief nourisher in life's feast," 
is often invoked, but seldom kindly descends upon the aged eyes ! The bad 
habits of late hours and midnight studies or dissipation, so often indulged in 
the early and middle periods of life, tend greatly to sleeplessness in our de- 
clining years. Those who have long repulsed the drowsy God from their 
doors, when he paid his voluntary visits, will find it difficult to entice him 
back when they are anxious for his favours. — 4ZA Edition. 



PORTRAIT OF OLD AGE. 205 

These are among the chief physical phenomena which become 
conspicuous at the close of the Tenth Septenniad, and augment 
in intensity, during the remaining span of existence — an indefi- 
nite period, beyond the reach of human calculation. Sombre as 
is the portrait here drawn of the decline of life, it is a favourable 
one, because it pre-supposes an originally sound constitution, and 
the non-abuse of it by vice or intemperance. But, imfortunately, 
very few can expect to glide down into the vale of years in this 
natural, and comparatively easy manner. Nine in ten of those 
who touch or pass the 70th year, bring with them som^ thorn to 
aggravate the inevitable evils of life's last stage ! It is now, 
when too late, that the septuagenarian bewails the excesses of 
youth, and the useless anxieties as well as inordinate labours 
or culpable indolence of middle age ! These, he finds, have en- 
tailed on him a long catalogue of maladies, in addition to his 
natural infirmities ! On the other hand, the individual who has 
led a life of temperance, morality, and activity, is now rewarded 
by a green old age, in which the decay of the powers is so slow 
as to be almost imperceptible, and the penalties of nature so mild 
as scarcely to call forth a murmur ! The final decline of life, in- 
deed, is a kind of protracted " climacteric disease," in which 
all the organs appear to wear down with such evenness, that 
hardly any specific complaint is made or felt by the individual. 
The whole machine voluntarily ceases to move, rather than ex- 
periences any violence in the stoppage of the wheels. 

If we turn from the physique to the morale, we shall find a 
corresponding decadence as we verge towards the end of life's 
long journey. As the tenth Septenniad advances, the stormy 
passions of youth and manhood subside into a state of tranquillity, 
calm as the unruflHed surface of the lake. Love has long taken 
his departure, leaving affection as his frigid, but friendly sub- 
stitute. Ambition, if a shadow of it remain, has now little else 
to do than ruminate on the giddy and dangerous heights which 
it has climbed — ^perhaps the rugged precipices over which it has 
been hurled ! The pillar of ambition may be as broad at the base 
as a hemisphere of this globe, and constructed of materials as firm 

T 



206 ECOKOMY OF HEALTH. 

aa the molten arms of conquered nations ; but the proud figure 
on the summit is in more peril than 

" The ship-boy on the high and giddy mast," 

when the tall fabric bends and cracks over the boiling surge in 
the midnight tempest. The ample page of history is fraught 
with illustrations ; but these are all cast into the shade by the 
stupendous dispensation of our own times — the sim of Auster- 
litz, Friedland, and Marengo, hurled from his high meridian 
throne, and plunged into the dark Atlantic wave — never to rise 
again ! 

Avarice — sordid, selfish avarice, still grasps, with clenched 
and fleshless fingers, the bag that holds the darhng pelf — a grasp 
so firm as scarcely to relax under the agonies of death !* But 
the possession of wealth (the only enjoyment which the miser 
experiences) begins to lose its rehsh in the vale of years, and 

* In excavating Pompeii, a skeleton was found with the fingers clenched 
round a quantity of money 1 A very remarkable example presented itself to 
the Author while this sheet was passing through the press. An octogenarian, 
worth more than a hundred thousand pounds — sinking under a complication 
of fatal organic diseases, sent for the Author, and, after dwelling for a few 
minutes on his corporeal afflictions, broke out in a strain of lamentation on 
the loss of two thousand pounds by a recent fire on his extensive premises ! 
He remarked that it was of little use to prescribe for the disease of the body, 
unless T could cure its cause — the anguish of his mind ! I quoted to him the 
reply of the Physician to Macbeth; but that aflForded him no consolation. I 
then repeated the celebrated passage from Shakespeare, 

" Who steals my purse, steals trash — 'tis something — nothing — 
'Twas mine — 'tis his, and may be slave to thousands ; — 
But he who filches from me my good name, 
Robs me of that which not enriches him. 
But makes me poor indeed !" 
asked him if he had lost his credit, — his reputation, — his honour? — He 
raised himself with animation on his couch, and, squeezing my hand, ex- 
claimed, " No ! all that is safe — no stain attaches to my name as a merchant 
in the City of London." I left him under this transient impression of pride 
— but probably it did not bear him long up. 

P.S. He died soon afterwards, and left an ample fortune to his children. — 
4th Edition. 



PORTRAIT OP OLD AGE. 207 

the very sight of his gold reminds the wretch of the approach- 
ing separation from all that he holds dear. The last of the 
master-passions floats like a wreck on the ocean of declining 
life, till it becomes a scarcely visible speck, and ultimately dis- 
appears ! 

Thus then, with appetites diminished, desires decayed, pas- 
sions subdued, and infirmities accumulating, what has man to 
attract him to this world, or to regret at leaving it ? Little ! — 
But that little is, to him, a great deal. It is in poverty that we 
prize riches — in sickness, health. And so it is chiefly when we 
approach the final goal of existence that we fully appreciate the 
just value of life ! 

" Though dull the close of life, and far away. 
Each flower that hail'd the dawning of the day ; 
Yet o'er her lovely hopes, that once were dear, 
The time-taught spirit, pensive not severe. 
With milder griefs her aged eye shall All, 
And weep their falsehood, though she love them still !" 

It may be fairly doubted, indeed, whether the balance of hap- 
piness is much against the septuagenarian, and in favoiu: of earlier 
Septenniads. In this late stage of the journey, our wants, and 
even our wishes are few, and easily satisfied. If early life has 
been spent in honest industry and temperance, our declining 
years will be little annoyed by the natural penalties of age. We 
then hear the tempests of ambition and the other turbulent pas- 
sions rolling over our heads, and hurling their victims into the 
abysses of misery or crime, while we are sheltered from the storm 
in the lowly vale. What says the poet Campbell ? 

" Hail welcome tide of life, when no tumultuous billows roll, 
How wondrous to myself appears this halcyon calm of soul ! 
The wearied bird blown o'er the deep would sooner quit its shore. 
Than I would cross the gulf again that time has brought me o'er." 

Pleasures do not constitute felicity, nor pains misery. Many 
who are capable of enjoying, and do actually possess, the luxuries 
of this world, are wretched in the midst of plenty; while others, 
who are buffeted by misfortunes, deprived of comforts, and haras- 



208 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

sed with bodily sufferings, are resigned, contented, and compara- 
tively HAPPY ! The cause of this difference is not inexplicable. 
A well-spent life in this world, and a well-founded hope of immor- 
tality in the next, may readUy account for the one — a long series 
of breaches against the laws of Nature and of Nature's God, with 
little or no hope of " another and a better world" — perhaps the 
apprehension of a worse, inevitably eventuates in the other. 
Virtue is its own reward, at all periods of life, but it is religion 
alone that can sustain frail humanity, with any degree of forti- 
tude, under the pressure of adversity, the infirmities of age, and the 
prospect of death. 



Descending, however, from this spiritual source of consolation 
to material conditions of human nature, there are many curious 
subjects which appear to have escaped the attention even of Cicero, 
while portraying the comforts of old age. Some of these may be 
less dignified or philosophic than those enumerated by Tully, 
but not less natural or efficient. We know that, in youth, much 
of our time is spent, and mucji of our pleasure consists in antici- 
pations of the future — in building castles in the air. In age the 
scene is reversed. Unable to embark in new pursmts, or conti- 
nue the old, many of our hours are daily passed in retrospection 
— ^in re-enacting by-gone transactions — conjuring up long-forgot- 
ten events — and rehearsing the chequered drama of existence, 
even from our boyish days ! Memory, shattered as it is, now 
stands our friend, and supplies the place of imagination. 

In his half-dreaming reveries, the septuagenarian winds through 
all the tortuous and devious paths of youth and manhood, ex- 
tracting pleasure not only from the smiles, but also from the 
frowns of Fortune, experienced in the diversified journey of se- 
venty years. Misfortunes are now remembered only as difficul- 
ties overcome, dangers survived, and sorrows deprived by time 
of their stings. Along the retrospective vista, joys are painted in 
mellow tints, unalloyed by those pains and penalties from which 
they are seldom free in their actual occurrence during the busy 



CONSOLATION OP COMPLAINING. 209 

turmoil of life. These reminiscences afford more solace to the 
old man in his arm-chair, half dozing over his cheering glass of 
port or sherry, between dinner and tea, than many young people 
can imagine ; and they are not attended by the broils, nor suc- 
ceeded by the headaches, which too often detract from the plea- 
sures of Bacchanalian festivities in the fourth and fifth Sep- 
tenniads. 

There are other peculiarities of the aged, which may admit of 
question as to their tendency towards happiness or misery. He 
who has passed his tenth Septenniad, is apt to regard with dis- 
dain — sometimes approaching to disgust— the ever-changing man- 
ners, habits, fashions, customs, and even creeds, going on in the 
world around him. He has long embraced the venerable maxim — 

" Stare super vias antiquas," 

and considers every deviation from the instructions of his fore- 
fathers, as a degeneration from the "good old ways" of the 
world. In these, his reflections on modern frivolities, errors, and 
evils, there is no small share of pride and pleasure, mixed up with 
the acerbity and wailings of querulous criticisms. Upon the 
whole, I am inclined to place these among the solaces rather than 
among the miseries of age. 

But however this may be, they are often extremely amusing to 
the listener. I attended a gentleman for many years before he 
was summoned, at the mature age of 84, to his final home. 
When I first became acquainted with him, the steam-engine was 
the daily subject of his anathemas. This vile automaton he would 
not admit to be the invention of Fulton or Watt, but that of the 
" Evil One" himself. It was, in no long time, to ruin half the 
artizans of England, turning their families into paupers, and 
themselves into robbers and thieves. But this was not all. The 
iron and tin mines of Cornwall and Wales would be utterly ex- 
hausted by the manufacture of hardware for Europe and America, 
so that we should not have a nail to drive into a door or a ship's 
bottom ! 

Gas fortunately changed the theme. Nobody could doubt that 
this was the invention of Lucifer, It vitiated the air we breathe 

t2 



210 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

—it poisoned the waters, so that the fish of the Thames could 
not live among the drainings of the gas-works. The coal-mines 
of the North would soon be exhausted, and the whale fisheries 
would be at an end, as oil would soon be useless. The day of 
retribution, however, was not far distant, for the metropolis and 
all the great cities of England would one day be blown into the 
air, by a general explosion of this infernal machine ! 

Gas, in its turn, gave way before a still greater evil — steam 
navigation. The days of England's naval supremacy were num- 
bered ! 

" The flag that braved a thousand years, 
The battle and the breeze," 

would soon be struck for ever ! The hardy race of tars who 
could " hand, reef, and steer," in the heaviest gale of wind, would 
soon degenerate into a band of squalid half- broiled wretches, 
doomed, from morning till night, and from night till morning, to 
heave up coals under a cauldron, or grease the clanking machinery 
of a steam-engine. Oh, it was melancholy to behold a fine vessel 
squatted on the water like a duck, with fins for sails, and a huge 
chimney for a mast, belching forth smoke like a glass-house, and 
consuming more fuel in a day than wovdd warm the hearths of 
half a parish for a week ! Such a system would, in the next 
war, strike Great Britain out of the map of independent king- 
doms. Had Napoleon been supplied with steamers to tow his 
flotilla across the Channel in a calm, England would now have 
been a province of France, and the Czar of MuscoAry a sous- 
prefect of Petersburgh ! 

Strange to say, this anticipated subjugation of his country by 
foreign bayonets, was, all at once, absorbed and forgotten in an 
event of a very different character — Catholic Emancipation. 
Although there had been premonitory lightnings for some years 
in the West, this stupendous disaster came on the old gentleman 
like a peal of thunder, for which he was quite unprepared. In 
the sudden conversion of Peel to Popery, he saw clearly por- 
trayed the advent of the Scarlet Lady of Babylon, the subversion 
of the Protestant Church, and the dominion of Antichrist ! 



CONSOtATION OP COMPLAINIXO. 211 

Already the approaching tortures of the inquisition had nearly 
suspended the racking pains of gout, when the wheel of fortune 
once more revolved, and the gift of prophecy was required in a 
new quarter of the compass. 

The Emancipation of Irish Catholics was bad enough, but 
" Reform op Pakliament," was a dispensation that could not 
but speedily bring down a signal and awful punishment on a 
guilty nation ! The political frame of society would now be rent 
asunder, and the great pyramid of ranks, orders, and gradations 
would be inverted, and set on its apex, with its broad and un- 
wieldy base uppermost ! Such a fabric could not stand a single 
year, without breaking down and involving all classes in one 
common ruin ! One, two, three years elapsed, and, to the as- 
tonishment of the prophet, the pyramid stood firm on its apex ! 
One day, when I entered his apartment, I saw Eureka in his 
cotmtenance. He had evidently solved some great problem, and 
was bursting with the discovery. 

•' Doctor, said be, you have often asked me if the pyramid 
were still standing on its apex } I can tell you now why it yet 
stands. Did you ever, when a boy, amuse yourself by spinning a 
TOP ?" I answered in the affirmative. " How did you make the 
Tap stand on its pivot, with its broad and heavy end upper- 
most ?" By whipping it, certainly, I replied. " That's the very 
point," cried he. " The political top is kept on its apex, at 
present, by perpetual revolution, whipped roimd and round with a 
scourge of scorpions by that fiend O'Connell ! But the quicker 
and the longer it revolves, the greater wiU be the crash when it 
comes down." 

This amiable and venerable prophet did not live to see any of 
his predictions fulfilled — and most of them were forgotten even 
by himself. But he derived more solid advantages from his 
prophecies than if they had all been verified to the letter. In his 
philanthropic wailings over the evils that were to befeJl his pos- 
terity, he forgot a great proportion of his own personal infirmities 
and suiFerings. Days, months, and years of bodily pain in him- 
self were thus beguiled by ruminations on the imaginary ills of 
others ! Nor is this a rare or solitary instance of the musings of 



212 ECONOMY OP HEALTH. 

the mind when the body is bowed down by age. The species of 
solace illustrated by this example is diffused through every rami- 
fication of mankind, varied in kind, mode, and degree, by indi- 
vidual temperament, education, and habits of life. 

Perhaps the humane reader may not be disinclined to learn 
the finale of the worthy personage alluded to in this instance. 
A shght attack of apoplexy impaired his faculties, and put an 
end to his anxieties for the fate of succeeding generations. He 
passed another year or more in a kind of quiet vegetative ex- 
istence, with little bodily pain and no tribulation of mind. A 
second seizure of coma rather than of apoplexy rounded a long 
life with a short and transient slumber that ended in eternal 
sleep. 

But, notwithstanding these and many other sources of solace 
imder the pressure of years — and although indulgent Nature 
endeavours to provide for the comfort and happiness of her 
offspring in all periods of existence, when her laws are not 
outraged; yet it is but too true that, in civilized society, de- 
clining life brings with it a long black catalogue of calamities 
and sufferings which were never designed by our Creator, and 
which are the penalties we pay for civilization, refinement, lux- 
uries, and excesses, in youth and manhood. The wUd animal 
decays and dies with little or no pain or suffering. Compare 
this with the horse, domesticated and civilized with man ! He 
is afflicted with nearly as many maladies as is his master ! So of 
the unsophisticated Indian and the poUshed European. Were 
there no considerations of present inconvenience, but only the 
knowledge of what is to be the lot of old age, the exhortation 
to temperance and exercise in early and middle life, deserves 
the deepest reflection. After the ninth or tenth Septenniad, 
neither prevention nor cure of corporeal afliictions need be ex- 
pected. We are then doomed to suffer for early indiscretions, 
without hope of mitigation ! How many thousands would then 
give kingdoms for a few years of immunity from pains and penal- 
ties wliich they laid the foundations of, when it was in their 
power to prevent them ! 

It is not a little curious that, amongst the most wild and nn- 



CONSOLATIONS OF OLD AGE. 213 

cultivated nations on the earth, aob is venerated and honoured, 
even on its own account ; whereas, in states of the highest culti- 
vation and refinement, we frequently see the diseases of body and 
mind treated with contempt — too often with ridicule ! This is 
passing strange, knowing as we do, that the life of man is so short, 
that the young may be said to be actually treading in the very 
steps of the aged — hurried on by irresistible fate to the same me- 
lancholy goal — and plunging, like their parents, into the same 
gulph of oblivion at last. If some cruel tyrant precipitated daily 
into a dark and dismal dungeon a certain number of his subjects, 
there to linger and die without food or drink, what would be 
thought of those last thrown in, if they made themselves merry 
with the agonies and death of those who had preceded them by a 
few days ! Yet such conduct would not be less rational or hu- 
mane than that which sports with the infirmities of the aged, and 
points the finger of ridicule at the second childhood to which they 
themselves are fast advancing ! 

It is strange that we should dread or despise that which we all 
wish to attain — length of years. 

" Age," says a late writer, " ought to be venerated and res- 
pected, especially when we consider it free from the dominion of 
impetuous passions, and endowed with a greater share of ex- 
perience than appertains to other periods of life. Nay, we may 
advance another step, in depreciating the calumny too generally 
directed against the condition of the period, by observing that, 
when old age is devoid of unpleasant reflections from the con- 
duct of a past life, and of diseases from the imprudence of former 
years, men in easy circumstances find it an extremely comfortable 
state."* 

There is much truth in these observations, though the picture 
here drawn of old age may be somewhat too flattering. It tends, 
however, to shew, what I have elsewhere urged, that all the 
advantages of life are not concentrated in its earlier periods — 
but scattered, however sparsely, over the ulterior epochs of man's 
existence here below. When we mean to express our most fer- 

* Dr. Jameson on the Cbaagea of the Body, &c. 



214 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

vent desire for the welfare of an individual, we wish him — " long 
LIFE," The Eastern Nations have carried this to a hyperbolical 
excess. " May you live a thousand years," is an ordinary salu- 
tation — and the sacred text is well known — " honour thy father 
and mother, that thy days may be long in the land." All these 
shew that protracted existence has, in every age, in every clime, 
been considered the greatest boon which could be conferred by 
Heaven on a mortal being. I am far from agreeing in the pro- 
priety of this " universal prayer." Health and contentment are 
infinitely preferable to length of years, which must be attended 
with infirmities — too often with sufferings. Yet a contemplation 
of tottering age and octogenarian imbecility ought to supply any 
thing rather than food for gratulation, much less mirth or satire 
to the young and vigorous. They are prophetic mirrors which 
reflect the future form, with as much fidelity as the poUshed glass 
reflects the living features — but with this important addition, that 
they portray the moral as well as the physical condition towards 
which we are verging ! 



LAST 8CENS OF ALL." 215 



ULTRA-LIMITES. 

[70 to 0.] 



last scene of all 



That ends this strange eventful history ! 

The Almighty, for wise purposes, has implanted in every human 
breast, an instinctive love of life and horror of the grave. But 
had the limits of man's sojourn on eaith been accurately defined 
— had the " three score tears and ten," been the maximum 
of his days, the instinct in question would have been a fatal gift, 
and utterly destructive of even a moment's happiness here below. 
The Omniscient Creator will'd it otherwise. For him who is 
advanced, however far, on Time's list — even for the septuagena- 
rian, so ample a margin is left, and so completely involved in 
obscurity is the further boundary of that margin, that no one can 
calculate his own destiny, — no one can foresee the day or the year 
that is to be his last. On the contrary, every one indulges the 
hope that he is not next on the list of departures from the social 
scene. 

Et mihi forsan tibi quod neg&rit, 
Porriget hora. 

The grisley monarch, in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, 
approaches at last in disguise, and, waving his Lethean Sceptre, 
seals in unwaking sleep the eyes of his victim, now as unconscious 
of the struggle that separates soul from body, as he was of the 
maternal throe that first ushered him into this world of cares.* 

• We have heard a great deal of those brilliant scintillations of intellect 
that sometimes cast a dazzling lustre round the dying bed. Eloquent orations 
on this topic have been addressed to audiences more disposed to swallow the 
marvellous than investigate the probable ! The whole is, in my opinion, an 
innocent romance, calculated to gratify the feelings — perhaps flatter the 
pride — of the living, by throwing a halo round the couch of the dead. 

Every one knows how prone are the friends and spectators of the dying 



216 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

Although instmctively, and, of course, involuntarily clinging 
to life, and desiring its procrastination from year to year, yet the 
octogenarian experiences a series of events that tend to gradually 
wean him from his attachment to this world — or, at all events, to 
enable him to contemplate his approaching end with more serenity 
of mind, than at earlier periods. These preparations are moral, 
physical, and religious. In the first place, the octogenarian finds 
that he has outlived all, or almost all his juvenile acquaintances 
and relations. Father and mother are scarcely remembered in 
form or feature — brothers and sisters are gone — few even of his 
own progeny remain on earth, and they are dispersed, and grow- 
ing old amongst their own families. Those who were bom and 
still survive, when the octogenarian was in the prime of life, 
have now a numerous offspring, and are themselves beginning to 
decline into the vale of years ! With these he cannot now form 

man, to mark each expression — treasure it up in the mind — and embellish it 
in the rehearsal. But the experienced physician and the calm philosophic 
observer reduce these exaggerations within the narrow and sober boundary 
of truth. Few have had the melancholy task of witnessing more death-bed 
scenes than myself, whether amid the storms and havoc of war, or in the 
quiet walks of peace. But no such corruscations of the mind have I ever 
beheld, when the immortal spark was deserting its uninhabitable tenement. 
The phenomenon is contrary to Nature and experience — and miracles I leave 
to those who prefer them to experimental truths. 

The alleged fact, though grossly exaggerated, has some foundation. In a 
very considerable number of instances, the dying man and woman retain 
possession of their mental faculties till within a very short period of dissolu- 
tion. And this depends on the nature and seat of the disease. Many mala- 
dies destroy life without materially disturbing the organ of the mind — the 
brain — till the last hours of existence. Pulmonary consumption is one of 
these, and the list is rather extensive. In such cases we frequently observe 
a serenity of mind — a tranquillity — a placid resignation to the will of the 
Almighty, and even a cheerfulness in contemplating the approaching change. 
But as to any preternatural blazing-up of the expiring taper, at such moments, 
it is either sheer imagination in the bye-standers, or a poetical creation of 
after-thought. No rational or physiological explanation of the phenomenon 
has been attempted by the historians of these death-bed illuminations. No ! 
They have left them to the easy and convenient solution of supernatural 
agency. The explanation which I have given is founded on physical facts — 
and with the miraculous I have no concern. 



" LAST SCKKB OF ALL." 217 

new acquaintance, their habits and sentiments being all different 
from his own, which have remained stationary for twenty years or 
more. Thus the old man feels himself like a withered, gnarl'd 
oak in the midst of a forest of tall and flourishing trees, having 
little in common with the world around him, except the air he 
breathes and mother earth under his foot ! Unable to mix with 
society, or to enjoy it if able, he seeks converse with the dead. 
But those authors who afforded him delight in youth, are insipid 
in age. Works of imagination have lost their charm, because 
imagination itself is decayed. Arts and sciences have faded on 
the memory ; and fiction excites little interest when fancy 
is fled. 

There is one, and only one book, (need I name it !) which re- 
tains its attractions to the last, and even rises in estimation as life 
sinks in value. Frigid philosophy offers little consolation when 
the curtain begins to fall. True, it shakes the fear of future 
punishment, and the hope of future reward ; but it substitutes for 
these the horror of annihilation, more terrible to the human 
mind than the direst chimeras of the wildest superstition ! 

The musing melancholy sceptic meditating on the dreary grave, 
where the body is to moulder into dust, and the mind vanish into 
nothing, envies while he despises the savage of the wilderness- 
even the untutor'd Indian to whom 



ts givea 



Beyond the cloud-capt hill an humble Heaven ; 
And where, admitted to an equal sky. 
His faithful dog shall bear him company, — 

Gladly would he barter Golconda's mines (were they his) for any 
creed, however credulous, of any people, however barbarous! 
But FAITH is a jewel that cannot be purchased ! Although a 
belief may force itself upon us, we cannot force ourselves upon a 
belief. It is the child of conviction, and disdains adoption from 
choice. Happy, thrice happy, the man who, in early life, has 
imbibed the cheering doctrines of Christianity, and, in the matu- 
rity of years, has practised its holy precepts. He, and he only, 
can bear the infirmities of age with fortitude, and the prospect of 

u 



218 ECONOMY OF HEALTH. 

dissolution with composure — confident in the hope that, the 
agonies of death are but the pains of a new birth, and, that the 
grave itself will prove the CKADiiE of immortality. 

Unfading Hope, when life's last embers burn. 
When soul to soul, and dust to dust return ! 
Heaven to thy charge resigns the awful hour ! 
Oh ! then thy kingdom comes ! immortal power ! 
What though each spark of earth-born rapture fly 
The quivering lip, pale cheek, and closing eye ! 
Bright to the soul thy seraph hands convey 
The morning dream of life's eternal day — 
Then, then, the triumph and the trance begin, 
And all the Phcenix spirit burns within ! 



THE END 



( 219 ) 

LATELY PUBLISHED. BY THE SAME AUTHOR, 

Fourth Edition, price 85. 6d. bds. 

I. CHANGE of AIR, or the Pursuit of Health and Recreation ; illus- 
trating the Beneficial Influence of Bodily Exercise, Change of 
Scene, Pure Air, and Temporary Relaxation, as Antidotes to the 
"Wear and Tear of Education and Avocation. 

CRITICISM. 

*• Every page of Dr. Johnson's volume reminds us of the 'Sentimental 
Journey.' Like its prototype, this work is so spirited, so sentimental, so full 
of sound moral reflection — so correct and so impartial, that we scarcely 
know where to look for its equal. It is a clasical and philosophical tour, 
in which the characteristic features of every country are sketched with 
fidelity and effect. In addition to extensive reading and research, the author 
has travelled over many territories collecting his materials. The work is full 
of entertainment for all who love history, topography, the description of 
beautiful scenery, traditionary legends and antiquarian accounts of historical 
monuments. To travellers and invalids it is an amusing, instructive, and 
invaluable companion. It is impossible to dip into any part of it, without 
having the attention rivetted and the fancy pleased. Of this production we 
need only say, that it is worthy of the accomplished author. It is written with 
elegance, accuracy, and an impartial spirit of philosophy ; and will add to his 
high literary and professional reputation. Had he written but this volume, 
he would have ranked among the best topographical writers of the day; for 
his description ' of men, manners, and countries' are seldom equalled — hardly 
ever surpassed. It is one of the most interesting publications which modern 
times have produced." — London Medical and Surgical Journal, April, 1831. 



The Tenth Edition, improved, price 6s. 6d. boards. 

II. Dr. JOHNSON on INDIGESTION, or Morbid SensibiUty of the 
Stomach, &c. 

criticism on the above work. 

"This brings us to the conclusion of the volume — a volume, we repeat, 
small in size, but rich in matter, from the perusal of which every reader will 
derive instruction. The extracts which we have given sufficiently attest the 
value of this contribution to the stock of medical facts. The essay is 
written throughout in a pleasing unaffected style."— Med. 8f Phys. Journal 
for Jan. 1827. 



The 6th Edition, greatly enlarged, price 18s. boards, 

III. The INFLUENCE of TROPICAL CLIMATES on European 
Constitutions. By Dr. Johnson and Mr. Martin. 

critical notice of the above work. 

" In no Work do we remember to have seen the important subject of pre- 
serving Health in Tropical Climates, so ably, so clearly, and so philosophi- 



( 220 ) 

cally treated. The easy, lucid, and entertaining manner in which it is written, 
cannot fail to render it equally interesting to the soldier, sailor, merchant, or 
traveller, as to the medical part of the community." — New Med. and Phya. 
Journal, Dec. 1813. 



Price Nine Shillings. 

IV. PILGRIMAGES to the GERMAN SPAS, in Pursuit of Health, 

&c. &c. 



Fourth Edition, price 7s. 6d. boards. 
V. The ECONOMY of HEALTH, or the Stream of Human Life, 
from the Cradle to the Grave ; with Reflections, Moral, Physical, 
and Philosophical, on the Septennial Phases of Human Existence. 

CRITICISMS ON THE FIRST EDITION. 

" Dr. James Johnson's books are always distinguished by originality and 
vigour. His views are frequently new and startling — his manner always 
sincere, buoyant, and independent. When there exists so much candour and 
courage in the assertion of practical principles that are occasionally at vari- 
ance with received theories, we may expect to find a spirit of vigilant enquiry, 
great facility in grasping and classifying facts, and a large experience of man- 
kind. Dr. Johnson develops these characteristics throughout all his writings. 
His illustrations are drawn from ordinary and accessible sources. He draws 
in all the sympathies and remote influences in his analysis of particular states 
of the human mind or body, and makes the matter of enquiry a medium 
through which we are led to the contemplation of nature at large. Hence 
he seems to digress when he is only carrying forward his researches to points 
which had not hitherto been included within the assigned limits of the subject. 
When the intimate connexion and mutual dependence of the mind and body 
ate taken into consideration, this mode of treating the diseases of either, by 
constantly keeping in view the causes that affect both, must be admitted to 
be as judicious as it is philosophical. Indeed Dr. Johnson writes like an An- 
thropologist, fortified by the knowledge of the physician. The earnest spirit 
in which it is written, and the practical knowledge which is brought to bear 
on its details, render it in the highest degree worthy of public attention." — 
Atlas, Nov. 5, 1836. 

" The author of this interesting publication has long been known to the 
medical world as truly learned in the healing art. His works on popular 
medicine have long been before the public, and earned him a justly deserved 
reputation. The volume before us cannot fail to increase it." — Parthenon, 
Nov. 17, 1836. 



Price Five Shillings. 

VI. EXCURSIONS to the PRINCIPAL MINERAL WATERS 
of ENGLAND. 

PRINTKD BY ». HAYDEN, I-ITTLE COl.LEGK STREET, WE.STMINSTER. 



•Jjl *^ ITBLISIIKD 11 V 

S. HIGHLEY, 32, FLEET STREET, 



OPP06ITK ST. DUNSIAN'S CHOKCH. 



PARISS PHARMACOLOGIA. Ninth Edition. 

Ilewriten in order to incorporate tlie latest Discoveries in Physiology, Che- 
mistry, and Materia Medica. and to render its nomenclature consistent with 
that of the new Pharmacopoeia ; being an extended inquiry into the opera- 
tions of Medicinal liodies as displayed in their simple and combined forms, 
upon which are founded the 

THEOKY AND AUT OF PRESCRIBING. 
Just Ready. 

Dedicated by Special Peniiission to her Majesty. 

CHEMISTRY OF THE FOUR ANCIENT 
ELEMENTS, 

FlUE, AIR, EARTH, AND WATER, 
An Essay founded upon Lectures delivered before the Queen. Dy Thomas 
Grifkiths, Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Small 
8vo., with nearly KM) Woodcuts, price .^s. Cloth, Lettered. 

" We strongly recommend Mr. (Jriffiths' Essay, clearly written and admi- 
rably illustrated." — Literary Gazette. 

" The directions for experiments are not only concise and perspicuous, 
but written in so precautionary a spirit, that the tyro is protected against 
risk, while he is instructed in the most curious agencies of nature." — 
Si>ectat<>r. 

CRIMINAL JURISPRUDENCE, 

Considered in relation to Mental Organization. By M. B. Sampson, Secre- 
tary to the Phrenological Association. 

*♦* Reprinted from the Spectator newi}>aper hy the Trustee.^ of Uie Hender- 
sonian Fund. 

[An enlarged edition in 1 volume is just ready.l 

ASH WELL ON DISEASES OF WOMEN. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES PECULIAR TO 
WOMEN By Samijkl AsHWKLL, M.D., Obstetric Physician and Lecturer 
to Uuy's Hospital. Illustrated by Cases derived from Hospital and Private 
practice. 1 vol. 8vo. Ju*t Ready. 



MORGAN'S OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 

A Description of the different Operations required in the practice of Oph- 
thalmic Surgery, including a New Mode of Operating for Cataract. By 
John Moroa.n, F.L.S., Surgeon to Guy's Hospital. Forming a Supplement 
to the Author's work on Diskases or the Evb. 1 vol. 8vo., with coloured 
Plates. Nearly Ready. 

PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS IN MIDWIFERY, 

With Cases in illustration. By John RAMSUOTirAW, M.D. Second Edition, 
Revised. 1 vol. 8vo. price 12s. Cloth, Lettered. 



NEW MEDICAL WORKS PUBLISHED BY 



THE ANATOMICAL REMEMBRANCER; 

OR, COMPLETE POCKET ANATOMIST. Containing a Concise De- 
scription of the Bones, Ligaments, Muscles, and Viscera ; — The Distribu- 
tion of the Nerves, Blood-vessels, and Absorbents ;— The Arrangement of 
the several Fascias ;— The Organs ot (feneration in the Male and Female ; 
and the Organs of the Senses. Second Edition. 32mo. price 3s. 6d. 

LEE ON DISEASES OF WOMEN. 

Researches on the Pathology and Treatment of some of the most important 
Diseases of Women. By Rohkkt Lee, M.D., F-U.S. 8vo. Plates, price 
7s. (id. 



SMELLIE'S OBSTETRIC PLATES. 

With Explanations. Exhibiting, in a series of Engravings, the Process of 
Delivery, with and without the Use of Instruments, and forming a suitable 
Atlas to Burns' Midwifery, and other Treatises requiring Plates. 8vo. Price 
.5s. in cloth boards, or with Burns' Midwifery in 1 Volume, .Cloth, Lettered, 
£1 Is. 

GUY'S HOSPITAL REPORTS. 

Volumes I. to VII, for the respective Years 1836 to 1842. Price J3s. each, 
in Cloth, Illustrated with very numerous Plates. 

Continued in Half Yearly Numbers, price Gs., published in April and 
October. 



GRAINGER'S GENERAL ANATOMY. 

F'lements of General Anatomy. Containing an Outline of the Organization 
of the Human Body. By R. D, Gbainobr. 8vo. price 1-ls. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR, 

OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE 
SPINAL CORD. 8vo. price 7s. 

PORTRAIT OF ^\n. R. D. GRAINGER, from a Painting by Wageman. 
Price 10s. rid. 



SELECTA E PRiESCRIPTIS ; 

OR, SELECTIONS FROM PHYSICIANS' PRESCRIPTIONS. 

Containing lists of the Terms, Abbreviations, &e., used in Prescriptions; 
with examples of Prescriptions grammatically explained and construed, and 
a series of Prescriptions illustrating the use of the preceding Terms. In- 
tended for the use of Medical Students. Eighth Edition. 32mo. cloth, 
price Hn. Cloth, Lettered. 



A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION 

And Percussion, composed from the French of Meriedec Laennec. By J. 
B. SHAni'R, M.B.C.S. Second Edition, improved and enlarged. 18mo. 
price 3s. Cloth, Lettered. 



PRINTED BY B. HAYDEN, MTTLB COLLEGE STREET, WE.STM INSTER. 



I 



8. HIOHLBY, 33, FLKET STRKET. 



STOWE'S CHART OF POISONS. 

A Toxicological Chart, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms, Treatment, 
and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral, Vegetable, and Ani- 
mal ; also Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animatioiu By 
William Stowk. Ninth Edition. Varnislied and mounted on cloth, with 
roller, price Os., or the plain sheet, 2s. 



PHILLIPS'S PHARMACOPCEIA. 

A Translation of the Pharmacopoeia CoUegii Regalis Medieorum Londl- 
nensis, MDCCCXXXVI., with copious Notes and Illustrations. By Richard 
Phillips, F.R.8., L. and E. Fourth Edition, corrected and improved. 
8vo. price; Kte. 6d. Cloth, Lettered. 



LIZARS' PRACTICAL SURGERY. 

A SYSTEM OP PRACTICAL SURGERY, WITH NUMEROUS EX- 
PLANATORY NOTES. Illustrated with Plates, from Original Drawings 
after Nature. By John Lizars, Professor of Surgery to the Royal College 
of Surgeons, Edinburgh. 8vo. price 21s. Cloth, Lettered. 

Two Appendixes to the above. The first price Is., containing the Opera- 
tion for the Cure of Squinting, the second, price Is. tJd., that for the Cure 
of Clvib-foot. 



CORNARO ON HEALTH AND LONG LIFE. 

SURE METHODS OF ATTAINING A LONG AND HEALTHFUL 
LIFE, with the means of Correcting a Bad Constitution. By Lewis Cor- 
NARo. Thirty -eighth Edition. 18mo. price 3s. Cloth, Lettered. 



THE INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES 

ON EUROPEAN CONSTITUTIONS. 
By James Johnson, M.D., with Additions by J. R. Martin, Late Pre- 
sidency Surgeon, and Surgeon to the Native Hospital, Calcutta. 
Sixth Edition. 8vo. price 18s. Cloth, Lettered. 

JUDD ON THE VENEREAL. 

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHILIS : 

Including a variety of Examples, Experiments, Remedies, Cures, and a New 
Nosological Classiliration of the various Venereal Eruptions ; illustrated by 
numerous coloured Plates. By William H. Juod, Surgeon in the Fusilier 
Guards. 8vo. price 25s. Cloth. 

CHANGES IN THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

PRODUCED BY CIVILIZATION. 

Considered according to the evidence of Physiology and the Philosophy of 
History. By Robbrt Vkritv, M.D. Second Edition. Enlarged. 8vo. 
price 68. Cloth, 



y» ^^ PUBLISHED BY * K» 

S. HIGHLEY, 32, FLEET STREET, 

OPPOEITB ST. DUNSTAN's CHURCH. 



CHAPMAN ON ULCERS OF THE LEG. 

The treatment of Ulcers of the Leg by Water-dressing, with a prefatory 
inquiry into the Therapeutic Operation of Water in Surgical Hiseases. Hy 
Hbnry T. Chapman, Surgeon to the St. George's and St. James's Dispensary. 
1 vol. 8vo. J\at Ready. 

REES ON DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 

The Diseases of Children, their Symptoms and Treatment. A Treatise in- 
tended for the use of the Student and Junior Practitioner. By G. A. Rkks, 
Surgeon to the General Dispensary for Children, &c. 12mo. price 5s. Cloth. 

MORGAN ON THE EYE. 

ILLUSTRATED BY EIGHTY COLOURED REPRESENTATIONS OF THE DISEASES, 
ETC., OF THE EYE. 

LECTURES ON OPHTHALMIC SURGERY DELIVERED AT GUY'S 
HOSPITAL. By John Morgan, F.L.S. 8vo. price 18s. Cloth, Lettered. 

BELL ON THE TEETH. 

THE ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND DISEASES OF THE TEETlf. 
By Thomas Bell, F.B.S., F.L.S. , F.G.S. Lecturer on Diseases of the Teeth 
at Guy's Hospital, and Professor of Zoology in King's College. Containing 
upwards of 1(K) figures illustrative of the Structure, Growth, Diseases, &c. 
of the Teeth. Second Edition. 8vo. price Us. Cloth, Lettered. 

PILCHER ON THE EAR. 

A New and Improved Edition. 
A TREATISE ON THE STRUCTURE, ECONOMY, AND DI8EA.SES 
OF THE EAR. By George Pilcheh, Senior Surgeon to the Surrey Din- 
pensary. With numerous Plates. Bvo. price 12s. Cloth, Lettered. 



THE PHILOSOPHY OF DEATH. 

A General, Medical, and Statistical Treatise on the Nature and Causes of 
Human Mortality. By John Reid. 12nio. price 6s. Gd. Cloth. 

BILLING'S MEDICINE. 

FIRST PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE; 

By Archibald Billing, M.D., A.M. Member of the Senate of the Uni- 
versity of London ; Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. Fourth 
Edition, 8vo. price 10s. Cd. Cloth, Lettered. 

HIGHLEY'S GENERAL CATALOGUE 

of iModcrn Medical Books, with their Prices and Dates. Price Is. 



PRINTEn BY H. HAYPEN, MTILE COLLEGE STREET, WE.STMINSTER. 



'=Ma. 



Unirersity of Toronto 
library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
Usdcr Pat "Ref . lada Ffle" 

Made bj LIBRARY BUREAU 



