Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



^^ 



1 



7' 




THE 



VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR: 



COlfTAIlIIVO 

A PLAIN AND ACCURATE DE8CBIPTI0N 

OF 
ALL THE DIFFERENT SPECIES AND VARIETIES OF 

CULINARY VEGETABLES; 

WITH 

THE MOST APPROVED METHOD OF OULTIVATINO THEM 
BY NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL MEANS, 

AND THE BEST MODE OF COOKING THEM; 

TOGBTHBR ^^TH 
A DESCRIPTION OF THE PHYSICAL HERBS IN OENSRAL USB, &c. 

ALSO, 
80HB BXCOLLECnONS OF 

THE LIFE OF PHILIP MILLER, F.R.S. 

Gardener to the Worsh^ftil Company of Apothecariet at 

Chdsea. 



BY JOHN ROGERS, /^ 

AUTHOB OF ** TBX FRUIT CULTITATOBL^r: 




LONDON; 

LONGMAN, OBME, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS 

FATEBNOSTEB-BOW* 

1SS9. 
11 ^ 






LOMDONi: 

Printed by A. SpomBBwootrti^ 
Kew-Street-Square; 



INTRODUCTION. 



Few will deny how essentially necessary the 
kitchen-garden is to the comforts and con- 
veniences of civilised life; indeed, scarcely a 
day in the course of th^ year passes away with- 
out our being reminded of its utility by the 
many varieties of nutritious and wholesome 
vegetables with which our tables are supplied. 
This being the case, it cannot be disputed that 
next in importance to the actual possession of 
such a garden must be the knowledge of its 
most profitable management, for it is notoriously 
the fact, that for want of possessing this know- 
ledge many gardens are quite unworthy of the 
name, and prove rather a source of vexation 
and loss to their possessors, than a means of 
pleasure and advantage. To supply this de- 
sideratum to the young horticulturist or amateur 
gardener, the present work is intended; its 
particular objects being to furnish the best 
information on the most approved methods of 

A 2 



IV INTRODUCTION. 

cultivating the various vegetables by natural 
and artificial means (to which pursuit the 
author has been devoted for upwards of half a 
century), and to supply what further informa- 
tion on the subject he conceives likely to prove 
interesting and useful. For these latter pur- 
poses he has been induced to follow the pro- 
ducts of the garden beyond their cultivation, 
and after treating of their nutritious qualities, 
he has added, in many instances, the best modes 
of cooking them. If in so doing any one should 
be disposed to remark that the author has gone 
away from his proper subject, he has only to 
reply, that in thus digressing he has not lost 
sight of the cui bono; and if this utility, 
which has been his object, shall be attained by 
the information thus afforded, he shall not re- 
gret the time and labour expended on his task. 
It will be unnecessary for the writer to speak 
of the many advantages attending the cultiva- 
tion of the garden, and more particularly as 
this work is not intended to instil a taste for 
the pursuit, so much as to direct that taste 
(previously acquired) into the best and most 
advantageous channels. 

That gardening is a healthy occupation no 
one will deny ; and that, while it bestows health 



INTRODUCTION. V 

on the body, it is calculated to give serenity 
to the mind, will be equally undisputed. It 
has afforded in all ages a pleasing relief from 
the troubles and anxieties of the world to some 
of the busiest actors on the stage of life ; and 
when ambition and its objects have lost their 
zest, and wealth has ceased to please, or dis- 
appointment has produced disgust, the pursuit 
of gardening has become the chief attraction of 
retirement, and in numerous instances has 
gilded the evening of life with the blessings of 
health and contentment. Among its lovers and 
practical admirers it can boast of many of the 
most honoured names in the departments of 
literature and science. In all ages, indeed, the 
successful cultivation of the garden has been 
coeval with a nation's greatest prosperity ; and 
in the present day, the country in which it is 
most perfectly managed, is that most highly 
distinguished for its wealth and science. ITie 
British nation is indeed pre-eminent in this 
respect, and the British garden is superior to 
all others. This, however, was not always the 
case ; for not only are we indebted to the Con- 
tinent for the first introduction of the greater 
number of our culinary vegetables, but down 
to the reign of Queen Elizabeth it was cus- 

A 3 



Yl INTRODUCTION. 

tomary to. procure salads and other vegetables 
for the tables of the queen and nobility, from 
Flanders and Holland. 

Since that time, however, the improvement 
of the kitchen-garden has been progressive, 
and the combinatioir of British industry and 
skill has raised it to its present superiority. In 
reaching this pre-eminence, it has been greaUy 
assisted by the talents and writings of Quintinie 
of the French school, and Miller of the English; 
but there still remains great room for improve- 
ment, and an ample field for the exercise of the 
ingenuity of horticulturists. 

Emboldened by the success of a former work 
on fi-uits, which has reached a third edition, 
the author offers the present to a discern- 
ing public, in the hope that a similar success 
may attend it ; and while he would not attempt 
to undervalue other horticultural writings, he 
would yet venture to call attention to the cir- 
cumstance that few, if any, will be found to 
contain an equal amount of practical inform- 
ation, condensed in the same compass, and at 
the same price. 

. In arranging the present work,- utility has 
been the principal object of the author, and in 
9eeking it, he has paid but little a.ttention to 



INTRODUCTION. vli 

el^ance of diction or ornament of any kind, 
his chief wish having been to make himself un-r 
derstood. If the writer has succeeded in his 
purpose of imparting, in a clear and compre-^ 
hensive manner, a body of useful and practical 
information to the amateur horticulturist, his 
object will have been accomplished, and he 
doubts not that a fair success will attend his 
work. 

Whether he shall himself survive long enough 
to find reason to be gratified with such success, 
his great age renders somewhat doubtful ; but 
if so, it will be pleasing to him to find that he 
has been useful m his day and generation ; and 
at any rate he may be allowed to indulge in the 
reflection, that this has been his object. 



A 4 



CONTENTS. 



The Formation of a Ejtchbn Gardbn 



Page 
- xui 



The Vegetable Cultivator : — 
No. 




L Artichoke 


- 1 


2. Asparagus 

3. Basil 


- 5 

- 20 


4. Bean 


- 22 


5. Beet 


- 27 


6. Borecole - - 


- 31 


7. Brussels Sprouts 

8. Brocoli - - - 


- 33 

- 35 


9. Burnet 


- 42 


10. Cabbage 

11. Cardoon 


- 43 

- 50 


12. Carrot . - . 


- 53 


13. Cauliflower 


- 58 


14. Celery 

15. Chervil 


- 67 

- 73 


16. Chives 


- 75 


17. Com Salad 


- 76 


18. Cress - - - 


- 77 


19. Cucumber 


- 78 


20. Endive - - - 


- 105 


21. Fennel 


- Ill 


22. Garlic 


- 114 


23. Guinea Pepper or Capsicum 


. 115 



' X CONTENTS. 

No. Page 

24. Horse Radish - - - 120 

25. Indian Cress or Nasturtium * - 123 

26. Jerusalem Artichol^es - - - 126 

27. Kidney Bean - - - 128 

28. Leek ^ - - 140 

29. Lettuce - - - 142 

30. Love Apple, or Tomato - - 153 

31. Marjoram ^ , . 156 

32. Marygold - - - 157 

33. Melon - - - - 159 

34. Milan Cabbage - - - 180 

35. Mint - - ^ • 181 

36. Mushroom - - - 183 

37. Mustard - - - 198 

38. New Zealand Spinach - - 199 

39. Onion - - - 200 

40. Oxalis crenata ... 210 

41. Parsley - - - 214 

42. Parsnip - - ^ - 218 

43. Peas ^ r « - 222 

44. Potato - - - . 239 

45. Purslane - - - 257 

46. Radish - - - 258 

47. Rampion - - - 262 

48. Rape - - - 264 

49. Rhubarb - - - 264 

50. Rocambole ... 272 
5L Sage - - - - 273 

52. Savory - - - 275 

53. Savoy - - - - 276 

54. Salsafie - - - 279 

55. Scorzonera - - - 281 

56. Sea^Kale - - - - 282 
37. Shallot - - - 291 

J». Skirret - - - 294 

^P, Sorrel - - - - Si.%t> 



CONTENTS. XI 

No. Page 

60. Spinach - - - 298 

61. Sweet Fennel or Flnochia - - 3CM^ 

62. Tarragon - - - - 303 

63. Thyme - - - 306 

64. Truffle - - - 307 

65. Turnip - - - - 309 

66. Vegetable Marrow - - - 314 

67. Water Cress - - - 316 

68. Winter or Land Cress - - - 319 



PHYSICAL HERBS. 

1. AngeUca - - - 321 

2. Anise - - . - 322 

3. Balm - - - - 322 

4. Blessed Thistle - - - 323 

5. Borage - - - - 324 

6. Caraway - - - 324 

7. Chamomile - - - 325 

8. Clary - - - - 325 

9. Coriander - - • 325 

10. Cumin - - - • 326 

11. Dill - - - - 326 

12. Fenugreek - - - - 326 

13. Feverfew - - - 327 

14. Horehound - - - 327 

15. Hyssop - - - - 328 

16. Lavender * - - - 328 

17. Marshmallow - - - 329 

18. Penny-royal - - - 330 

19. Peppermint - - - 330 

20. Rosemary - - - 331 

21. Rue - - - 331 



CONTENTS. 

Page 

No. . - 332 

22. Scurvy-grass - _ .332 

23. Tansey " " . . 333 

24. Tea Sage - ' ^ .333 

25. Wormwood 



Memoirs of 



Philip Millbr, F^^-S* 



. 355 



Xlll 



THE 

FORMATION OF A KITCHEN GARDEN. 



It may not, perhaps, prove unacceptable to the 
amateur gardener, if, in this place, and before enter- 
ing into the necessary details of the work, the author 
gives some general directions as to the best method 
of preparing and laying out a kitchen-garden, 
which in all cases requires much consideration; 
since, next to a badly designed, ill-placed house, a 
misplaced, ill-arranged, and unproductive kitchen- 
garden is the greatest evil of a country residence. 

The situation most suitable for the purpose should, 
if practicable, have a gentle declination towards the 
south, so that it may at all times have the full ad- 
vantage of the sun ; it should be well sheltered by 
plantations, but by no means shaded or confined; 
nor should the trees be planted too near the wall 
or boundary fence, as the roots are apt to run into 
the garden, thereby impoverishing the soil. 

In selecting the ground, it is of considerable im- 
portance to have the soil of a good and healthy 
quality, being sufficiently dry, mellow, and capable 
of being easily worked with the spade : the best is 
that of a rich, friable, and dark loamy texture ; the 
worst, that of a light, sandy, and stiff clayey descri^- 

Where the Datura of the subsoil is reteutvve, ^xe^X 



Xiv FORMATION OF A KITCHEN GARDEN. 

care must be taken to have it well drained ; for un- 
less this be effectually accomplished, healthy and 
good vegetables can never be produced. 

In forming a new kitchen-garden, the first thing 
to be done is to have the land well trenched to the 
depth of two feet and a half, if the soil will admit 
of it. A greater depth is never necessary, — indeed, 
with proper management, a depth of eighteen inches 
has been found sufficient, and has produced excellent 
crops. Care and attention are necessary in trench- 
ing, as, on the proper working at first, the after- 
good will chiefly depend; and whatever be the 
depth, whether thirteen or thirty inches, the follow- 
ing method may be pursued : — 

When the first trench (which is generally two 
feet wide) is thrown out, let the bottom be well 
picked up to the depth of several inches, and the 
top spit of the next trench thrown in upon it, break- 
ing and levelling the whole as the work is proceeded 
with, and taking care that the bottom of each trench 
is always carefully broken up, otherwise the subsoil, 
if hard or much trodden upon, as it must neces- 
sarily be, will form a sort of trough for the deten- 
tion of moisture. 

The too deep trenching of land, particularly if it 
be not good, is attended with ill consequences, as 
many years will elapse before the buried top spit 
can again be brought to the surface. 

There are many other ways of trenching land, 
but the author has always experienced this to be 
the best, and most economical in the end. 

As to the shape or figure of the garden, this is a 
point of little consequence, — t\iO\xgVi^ft«»c^'M%, <ix 



FORMATION OF A KITCHEN GARDEJf. XV 

that approachiDg nearest to it, is certainly the best 
and most convenient. 

With regard to the size of the garden, that, of 
course, must vary according to circumstances. 

Too much ground should not be taken up with 
walks: these are generally about three feet wide, 
quite straight, and placed at equal distances, and 
composed of fine red binding gravel. Little atten-> 
tion should be paid to ornament in a kitchen-garden, 
but utility should every where predominate. 

The succession of crops is a matter of consider- 
able importance in culinary gardening, as the growth 
of wholesome and healthy vegetables in a great 
measure depends upon it. 

The main principle to be kept in view is that of 
never over-cropping the ground, or growing ex- 
hausting crops in succession ; for it is well known 
that, under such circumstances, they become dete-* 
riorated in quality, and diminished in quantity. 

The author cannot quit this subject without cau- 
tioning the young gardener against allowing the 
kitchen-garden to get overrun with weeds ; thereby 
occasioning not only much unnecessary labour to 
himself, but great exhaustion to the soil. It is by 
neatness, cleanliness, and assiduity in every depart- 
ment connected with the kitchen-garden, that it can 
be rendered alike a source of pleasure and advan- 
tage to himself or his employer, and an object of 
lust admiration to others. 



THE 



VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR, 



1. ARTICHOKE Cynara. 

The generic term cjmara is supposed to have 
been so called by the ancients, on account of its 
ash-coloured leaves; and the word choke is no doubt 
taken from that part of the head which is.lefl sSter 
the bottom part of the scales is eaten, and which, 
if accidentally swallowed, produces a sensation simi- 
lar to choking. 

This vegetable, which afibrds a pleasant and nou- 
rishing diet, is a native of Africa, and also of some 
of the warmest parts of Italy, whence it was first 
brought to this country in the reign of Henry the 
Eighth, in the year 15if8 ; and, from the moisture 
of our climate, and the attention bestowed upon 
its cultivation, the size and flavour were so much 
I'mpydved, that the Italians sent for plants from 
England, supposing them to be of another variety. 
They were, however, mistaken, for tlie plants soon 
returned to their original size and quality, upon 
being restored to their native climate* 



2 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

The artichoke is principally cultivated in the 
gardens of the higher classes, by whom it is much 
esteemed; and it is considered more as a luxury than 
a profitable esculent. 

The heads, in their immature state, and before 
the flowers open, are boiled in salted water ,^ till all 
such parts of them become sofl as are capable of 
being so. The scales are tlien plucked off one by 
one ; the lower part, or bottoms, as they are called, 
are dipped in a mixture of melted butter, well sea- 
soned, and the fleshy substance sucked from the 
rest. But there is generally so little to be obtained, 
as almost to justify the observation of a raw coun-^ 
try servant, who, having waited at supper, when 
artichokes made one of the dishes, was eager, on 
his return into the kitchen, to taste a kind of food 
which he had never seen before ; but^ to his great 
disappointment, finding little more than a kind of 
horny substance, which equally defied his tongue 
and his teeth, declared, with great naivete, that 
gentlefolks seemed to him to have strange fancies, 
for, as far as he could discover, one leaf would do 
as well to lick up the butter as a thousand. ' 

On the Continent, artichokes are more generally 
used than in England ; they are eaten by the French 
and Italians in a raw state, as a salad, but are 
preferred afler having been boiled, and they form 
a standing dish at a French breakfast. 

Artichoke bottoms are also dried in the sun for 
winter use, forming an agreeable side dish through- 
out that season. 

There are three varieties of the artichoke, but 



ARTICHOK£. 3 

two only are cultivated, the third being very small 
and indifferent. ' 

1. The globe, so called from its globular head, of 
a dusky purplish tint ; the scales are turned in at the 
top more than in any other variety : it is generally 
preferred for the main crop, as the scales or edible 
parts are thicker, and possess the most flavour. It 
is, however, a much more tender sort ; and, in the 
severe winter of 1739 — 40, was nearly lost to the 
country. Previously to that time, it was the only 
kind in cultivation; and, on account of its superiority 
on that occasion, our gardeners were supplied from 
Guernsey with the French kind, until the globe 
variety could again be propagated. 

2. The French is known by its greenish head, 
which is oval ; the scales are more open^ and not 
turned in on the top so much as in the globe; 
though it has not the same thickness of flesh, it is 
much hardier, and very prolific, and deserves culti* 
vation in every garden: both sorts continue pro- 
ducing the heads from July to November. 

S. Tliis variety I call the Italian, which I should 
not have noticed, had I not seen it creep into many 
gardens, producing small conical heads, and very 
thin pointed leaves or scales. It is of no use for the 
table, and should be entirely excluded. 

Culture. — The artichoke is propagated by rooted 
suckers or young shoots, rising in the spring, from 
the roots of the old plants : these are fit to slip off 
for planting at the end of March or beginning of 
April, when from eight to ten inches high. 

For a new plantation, select an open compartment, 
with a light, rich, and rather moist bqSI^ oi ^o^^ 

B 3 



4 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

depth : let it be well dug and manured ; then plant 
the sets with a dibble, four feet between the rows,, 
and two feet apart in the row ; give some water to 
each plant, and occasionally^ if the weather con- 
tinues very dry, till they have taken root. 

This method of planting in single rows will be 
found superior to the triangle system, which forms 
too great a mass, and causes the plants to become 
weakly, besides occasioning more labour to the 
gardener. They must constantly be kept free from 
weeds by means of the hoe, which likewise prevents 
the surface from getting hard ; and I have fully 
proved, from observation for a number of years, 
that the more frequently the ground is disturbed 
with the hoe in dry seasons, the more moisture it 
retains. 

In the autumn, remove all the large decayed 
leaves ; then dig and well manure the ground be- 
tween and along each row. In severe weather, 
artichokes require more or less protection, and 
may be covered with the earth taken from between 
the rows ; but if the severity increases, the globe 
kind, especially, must have an additional covering, 
with plenty of dry litter from the stable. 

In the spring, the litter and earth must be re- 
moved. In March, according to the weather, the 
stocks are examined, and about three of the 
strongest left to grow and produce heads ; the rest 
are removed by pressure with the thumb, or by a 
knife. These shoots or suckers are used for the 
new plantations. Dig the whole ground level, and 
close up to the crown of the root of each plant, 
using at the same time plenty of ^ood rotten dung, 



ASPARAGUS. 5 

or sea-weed, if it can be procured. The latter ia 
one of the best manures for artichokes. Nothing 
more requires to be done, during the summer, than 
to keep the ground free from weeds. 

Artichoke plants will continue productive for 
many years, though after six or seven they begin 
to degenerate, the heads becoming smaller and less 
succulent ; it will then be necessary to renew the 
bed with young plants. It is a good plan, afler the 
second year, to keep up a constant succession. 
The bed will then always contain strong, young, 
healthy plants in a bearing state. 

If the heads are wanted fine and large, all the 
lateral ones growing on the same stalk, should be 
removed in their young state ; and when the entire 
crop on a stem is taken, be careful to cut it off 
or bend it down close to the ground, in order to give 
the plant more strength for new shoots. 



2. ASPARAGUS Asparagus. 

The name of this plant is of Greek origin, sig- 
tufying a young shoot before it unfolds its leaves. 
It is evidently a native of this country, being found 
wild in Essex and Lincolnshire. It is also found 
on the borders of the river Euphrates, in Asia, 
where it grows to a very large size. 

Asparagus is said to promote appetite, but is 
not considered to afford much nourishment, and is 
comparatively a vegetable of luxury. It occupies a 
large proportion of a gentleman's garden, and is 
seldom seen in that of the cottager, TVve ^owiv^ 

B 3 



b THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

shoots are boiled a few minutes, until they become 
sofl; they are principally served to table on a 
toast with melted butter ; seasoned, they also make 
an excellent soup. 

This vegetable is cultivated very extensively for 
the London markets ; and it must appear almost 
incredible to those who have not witnessed the 
loads of this article daily heaped on the greenstalls 
of the metropolis for the space of three months, 
that forty acres are under asparagus in the neigh- 
bourhood of London at one time. Willmott, a 
great grower, at Deptford, has had eighty acres 
entirely under this crop. 

Until towards the end of the seventeenth century, 
a large quantity of remarkably fine asparagus was 
exported from Holland, the deep^ rich, moist soil 
of that country bemg genial to its growth. 

Asparagus is propagated only by seed, which, as 
well as one and two or three-year old plants, may 
be purchased of the nurserymen or seedsmen; 
when a new plantation is formed, the latter practice 
is generally adopted in order to save time. 
* There are three varieties of the asparagus named 
in the seedsmen's catalogue, but there is a great 
similarity between them^ and I doubt if these sup- 
posed varieties were cultivated in the same soil and 
atmosphere, whether there would be found any dif- 
ference between them, except, perhaps, in the 
colour. The following is a description of them: — 

L Battersea is famed for producing fine aspa- 
ragus, the heads being large, full, and close^ and 
the tops tinted with a reddish green colour ; this is 
the sort generally cultivated by market-gardeners. 



ASPARAGUS. 7 

I 

2. The Gravesend asparagus is more green* 
topped, and not generally so plump and dose, but 
is reckoned better flavoured. Both varieties are 
held in great estimation. 

3. The Giant asparagus is greatly extolled by the 
London seedsmen^ on account of its size ; but the 
author considers the secret to lie iii the quality of 
the sml, for occasionally buds of immense thickness 
are produced in common beds; and in the Gardener's 
Magazine there is an account of sixty buds having 
been cut near Leeds, in Yorkshire, which weighed 
nearly seven pounds. 

Culture, — The middle of March, or thereabouts, 
if the weather is suitable, will be found a good 
time to sow the seed in quantity, according to the 
number of plants required for a small garden. A 
pound of seed will produce a requisite number of 
plants. 

> The seed is generally sown broad-cast on a four 
foot bed, but by far the better way is to sow it thinly 
in drills, about two inches deep and fifleen inches 
from row to row. It should be slightly trodden in, 
and the bed made smooth with the rake ; the ground 
must be kept as free of weeds as possible, and 
stirred with the hoe two or three times during the 
summer. If the soil is not very rich, some good 
rotten dung must be dug in before sowing the seed, 
as strong one-year's plants are the best for trans^ 
planting. About the end of the following October, 
some stable litter should be spread over the ground 
to protect the young roots from the frost. 

The best ground for asparagus is a light, rich, 
sandy loam. The soil should not be less iVv^ji Vvro 

B 4 



8 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

and a half feet deep. Before planting, it should 
always be trenched to the depth of two feet, and 
plenty of dung buried at the bottom, as no more 
can be applied there afler the beds are planted. 
The ground can scarcely be too well manured ; for, 
although the plants naturally grow in a poor, sandy 
soil, it is found that the sweetness and tenderness 
of the shoots depend very much on the rapidity of 
the growth, which can only be promoted by the 
richness of the soil. 

The ground being well trenched, manured, and 
levelled, the quarter must now be divided into beds 
four feet wide, with two feet alleys, as being the 
most coDTenient for cutting the shoots, and weed- 
ing, &c. The work should all be done in fine wea- 
ther, as the ground can be more easily worked, 
and the planting better performed, than if the 
ground is wet and cloggy. It is also a good plan 
to prepare and trench the ground a month or six 
weeks beforehand. Afler the beds are marked out, 
and before the planting commences, a layer of 
rotten dung should be spread over the beds, and 
regularly dug in with the spade, taking care to re- 
ject all the stones which appear, as they are hurtful 
to the plants, and occasion inconvenience in cutting 
the buds. 

The beds being prepared, and a strong stake 
driven in to the depth of two or three feet at each 
comer ; about the middle of March, if the weather 
is dry, commence the planting. Take up the plants 
carefully with a fork from the seed-bed, and expose 
them to the air as short a time as possible ; and, at 



ASPARAGUS. 9 

the time of planting, place them in a covered basket^ 
with a little siflted earth mixed with them. 

The distance at which they are commonly planted 
is nine inches in the row^ and one foot between the 
rows ; so that) if the piece of ground to be planted 
18 perfectly level, and the rows quite straight, every 
fourth row can be left to form the alley. The 
crowns of the plants are generally covered two 
inches with mould. 

The method of planting is as follows: — Stretch 
a line lengthwise along the bed, nine inches from 
the edge, and with a spade cut out a small trench, 
about six inches deep, turning the displaced earth 
to the other side of the trench, on the bed; and« 
having the plants ready, set a row along the trench, 
nine inches apart, with the crown of the roots two 
inches below the surface, drawing a little earth 
upon them, just to fix them as placed. Having 
finished planting the row, cover them directly with 
the earth taken from the trench, raking it back 
regularly an equal depth over the crown of the 
plants. Proceed then to open another trench^ a 
foot ft'om the first; plant it as above; and in the 
same manner plant three or four rows to each bed. 
Then lightly raking the beds lengthwise, draw off 
any stones or hard clods, and dress the sur&ce 
neatly and evenly. Let the edges be lined out in 
exact order, allowing two feet to each alley. If 
the weather at the time of planting is very dry, 
water them occasionally, till the plants are esta- 
blished. 

An asparagus quarter should not contain less 
than a rod of ground, as. it often requires that quan- 



10 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

tity to furnish a single good dish. For a large 
family, about twelve or sixteen rods are generally 
kept in a productive state. 

Nothing further will be required, during thef 
summer, than to keep the beds perfectly clear from 
weeds ; and the following winter to cover them with 
some rotten mianure, to preserve the crowns from 
the frost; if, in the spring, the earth is found to 
have settled in any part, which in new-made beds is 
ofiten the case, the deficiency must be made up 
with more mould. 

The crop is -permitted, the two first years and a 
great portion of the third, to run up to stalks, the 
beds being kept free from weeds, and the surface 
stirred. It is a common practice to sow onions, 
lettuces, or radishes upon the beds ; but the author 
considers this practice injurious to the asparagus, 
especially afler the first three years, as it must 
necessarily rob the ground of a large portion of its 
nourishment. 

If very large heads of asparagus are required, 
ihey may be produced by planting them twelve or 
fourten inches apart in the rows, and fifteen or 
eighteen inches between the rows. The ground 
must also be very rich and highly manured. The 
author considers this to be the method by which 
the Giant asparagus is produced, as in the course of 
his practice, by pursuing the same plan, he has 
met with the same results. 

After the beds are arrived at maturity, which is 
generally the third year after they are planted, they 
will require the following systematic mode of treat- 
ment : — - 



ASPARAGUS. 11 

From about the middle of October to the latter 
end of November, is the time to give the asparagus 
beds their winter dressing. This consists in cutting 
down the decayed stalks of the plants, close to, or 
^thin, an inch of the ground, and clearing the beds 
from weeds, drawing them off at the same time with 
a rake into the alleys to be buried, and spreading 
some of the earth upon the beds, which is called 
landing up. Then proceed to line out the alleys, 
the stakes that are placed at the corners of the beds 
forming a guide : the alleys must be dug one spade 
deep, and a good portion of earth spread over each 
bed, two or three inches thick, and then nicely 
levelled with the rake. It may be supposed by 
some, that in annual landing up the beds, they may 
in several years be considerably raised ; but by the 
spring forking and raking, together with the re-* 
peated hoeings and clearing off weeds in the sum- 
mer, and at the time of preparing for landing up ifi 
the autumn, a considerable portion of the earth is 
annually drawn off again into the alleys. 

About the en<^ of March, or towards the middle 
of April, before the buds begin to advance below, 
proceed to loosen the surface of the beds ; intro- 
ducing the fork slanting two or three inches under 
the surface, turn up the top earth near the crown 
of the roots, with care not to wound them. Tlien 
rake the surface of the beds level, and draw off the 
rough earth and hard clods into the alleys ; also 
trim the edges of the beds, and surface of the 
alleys regularly and even. Loosening the bed ia 
this manner enables the shoots to rise in free growth^ 
admits the air, rains, and sunshine, into the grounds 



12 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

and encourages the roots to produce buds of a hand- 
some^ full size. 

In general, transplanted asparagus comes up but 
slender the first year ; it is larger the second ; and 
the third year a few shoots may be fit for gathering ; 
and the fourth, the crop will be in good perfection. 

The best method of cutting them, is to scrape 
away a little of the earth from each shoot ; then 
with a sharp-pointed knife, made on purpose, with 
a narrow blade, six inches long, and finely sawed at 
the edge, cut off the shoot slantingly, about three 
inches below the surface, taking care not to wound 
the younger buds ; advancing below in different 
Stages of growth. Asparagus is in the best con- 
dition for cutting when it projects three or four 
inches above the ground, and while the top bud re- 
mains close and plump. 

The cutting season usually commences towards 
the latter end of April, and should seldom be con- 
tinued beyond ipidsummer. 

Asparagus beds, with good culture, will continue 
to 'afford plentiful crops for twelve or fourteen years, 
afler which the stools usually decline in fertility, 
and the shoots in quality ; but the author has known 
instances of beds producing large and fine asparagus 
for a much longer period. 

I have frequently observed in many gardens the 
depth of the alleys, which should always be kept 
filled up to within eight inches of the surface of the 
bed, as the roots of the plants extend as well as 
descend ; if the alleys are leflt deep, by cutting 
down the sides of the beds and deep digging, the 
plaats are materially injured. 



ASPARAGUS, ] 3 

The following hints may be useful to the young 
horticulturist. A bed twenty yards long, with four 
rows of plants, at one foot apart each way, 'will take 
240 plants, which at four years old will produce 
above 100 shoots daily throughout the season ; and 
the quantity Will increase every year. The author 
has had more than fifty buds in the season, pro- 
duced from one single root, the bed being in a 
high state of cultivation, according to the method 
previously advised. From the above statement, a 
calculation may be made as to the quantity of land 
required to be planted to supply the wants of the 
family. 

Where asparagus beds run east to west, or north 
to souths and the alleys are well filled up, they may 
be planted on the warm side, witli a row of kidney 
beans of an early kind^ which will not interfere with 
the cutting of the grass, and will produce sooner by 
a week or ten days than if sown in the open ground; 
or, occasionally, where ground is scarce, a central 
row of early spring-sown cauliflowers may be planted, 
at thirty inches apart. The author has grown them 
remarkably fine, in such situations, without any de- 
triment to the beds. 

Asparagus beds should be enriched with an ad- 
dition of good rotten dung, once every two or three 
years at farthest ; the benefit of which will be evi- 
dent in the quantity, as well as the size and quality, 
of the produce. The dung for this purpose should 
be completely rotted^ like that of old cucum* 
ber or melon beds. It should be applied afler the 
stalks are cleared off, and spread two or three inches 
thidc over the surface of each bed, and a. d.o\i\^^ 
portion in the alleys ; the beds being t\\en sW^xX^ 



14? THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR, 

fork-digged, to bury it ; after this dig the alleys in 
the usual way, and spread a portion of the earth 
evenly over the beds. In this way the enriching 
quality of the manure will be washed to the roots 
of the plants by the winter rains. 

Artificial Culture. — As asparagus is frequently 
required in winter^ and early in spring, another 
method must be practised for obtaining it in these 
seasons. This is effected by planting the roots in 
substantial hot-beds, covered with frames and glasses. 
When it is intended to have a constant succession 
of asparagus during the winter and spring, a new 
hot-bed must be made, and planted with fresh plants 
every three or four weeks. As these roots, when 
forced in hot-beds, do not continue to yield any 
tolerable produce after that period, being then quite 
exhausted, and unfit for that or any other purpose 
afterwards ; a fresh quantity of plants must be in 
readiness for every new hot-bed. These are raised 
in the open ground^ from seed, as directed for the 
natural culture of asparagus ; and when they are 
one year old, transplanted into beds of rich earth, 
in rows a foot apart, and nine inches in the row. 
The beds may be five or six feet broad, with only 
two feet alleys, to allow of hoeing and weeding, 
which must be carefully attended to. They do 
not require any landing up in winter, as in the 
natural cultivation. When the plants are two years 
old, and the ground is rich, they will be fit for 
forcing ; but they will be in much greater perfection 
if permitted to remain three or four years. During 
the time they remain in the natural ground, very 
few, if any,^ buds should be gathered, the whole 



ASPARAGUS. 15 

being allowed to run to stalk each summer. It b 
.also necessary, when it is intended to force aspa- 
ragus annually, that some seed should be sown 
every spring, and a due quantity of plants trans- 
planted, as before directed, by this practice. After 
the three first years, an annual succession of plants, 
&t for forcing, may be procured. But where only 
a small quantity of buds is required, and it is incon- 
venient to wait for. the raising of the plants from 
seedy they may always be purchased at a reasonable 
price from any respectable nurseryman, who gene- 
rally grows them for this purpose, and also for 
the natural ground plantations. 

Asparagus is usually forced on bark or dung 
hot-beds, prepared on the open ground ; but latterly 
flued pits have been held in much estimation for 
this purpose, as they force with greater success, 
as^ with much less labour^ than dung hot-beds. 
In preparing the dung for hot-beds, more attention 
is necessary than is generally given, especially to 
those made throughout the winter. 

For the bed, a quantity of good, long, fresh horse 
dung is requisite, which must be thrown together 
in a heap, for four or five days, to ferment ; afler that 
time it should be regularly turned two or three 
times, that its rancidity may be evaporated ; then 
select a convenient spot, and make it up into a 
bed three feet six inches high, and ten or twelve 
inches larger, all round, than the size of the frames 
which are to be set upon it. 
. Hot-beds for asparagus are generally made on 
level ground ; but a better way would be to dig a 
trench about a foot deep ; and, if the earth thrown 



16 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

out is light and rich, it will serve to cover the bed 
preparatory to the planting. When it is made) set 
on the frame and glasses> leaving the latter a little 
way open, that the rank steam may more readily 
pass off; when that is subsided, which may be known 
by the smell, the bed should be made levels and 
the top beaten down with the back of the spade. 
Some good, rich, light, and garden mould is then 
spread on the surface of the bed, to the depth of six 
or eight inches ; it will then be in a fit state for 
planting, care being taken that there is no cavity 
caused by the sinking of the bed, so as to allow the 
heat to escape. 

The frame should be made of well-seasoned deal, 
one inch and a half thick, ten feet seven inches 
long, two feet deep at the back, and one foot three 
inches in front ; the lights can be about three feet 
3ix inches wide, with two iron bars placed across 
each for strength. It should have three coats of 
paint previously to using ; and in glazing, the glass 
must lap over about the eighth of an inch ; such a 
frame will not only be useful for forcing asparagus, 
but for other vegetables, as potatoes, cucumbers 
&c. When the burning steam has subsided, and the 
bed is finished ready for planting, take up and pre^ 
pare the necessary quantity of roots from the na* 
tural ground ; then begin at the back, or one end ot 
the hot-bed, and raise a small ridge of earth (the 
author advises extra mould to be used for this purpose, 
otherwise too much will be taken from off the dung^ 
crosswise upon the surface, five or six inches high, 
against which lay the first row of roots : when that 
is done, place another row against these in the same 



ASPARAGUS* 17 

manner upon the surface of the bed, with the 
crowns upright and as close to one another as you 
can conveniently place them ; draw a little earth to 
the lower ends of the roots as each row is placed, 
or insert the ends a little into the earth. They are 
o<ften planted without either drawing any mould 
about the fibres or inserting them therein ; bvit this 
is not so good. Proceed by placing one row against 
another till the whole bed is completed. Care 
must be taken to place all the crowns of such an 
equal height that the whole may form a level 
surfiu^e. Then cover the crowns all over evenly an 
inch deep with some finely broken or sifted light 
vegetable mould, working it in among the buds with 
your fingers, which finishes the operation until the 
buds appear. As soon as the beds are made and 
planted, in order to judge of the temperature of 
the heat, it is proper to thrust some sharp-pointed 
stidcs down between the roots into the bed ; and by 
drawing them up daily, and feeling the lower part, 
you will be able to judge of the degree of heat, 
and be regulated accordingly. 

The roots will soon begin to send forth firesh 
fibres into the earthy and in about a fortnight the 
buds of the asparagus will make their appearance, 
when they are to have their final additional covering 
of four or'five inches of fine, light, rich c^rth. 

The bed being now finally earthed^ and the heat 
become moderate, the lights should be kept con- 
stantly upon the frames till the buds appear, and 
during the night should be covered with garden mats, 
which must be removed every morning, except in 
uncommonly severe weather ; for it is of importance/ 

c 



18 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

when the asparagus shoots begin to advance, to 
admit as much light and sun as possible, to produce 
a green colour in the top of the buds ; if the heat 
is moderate, the glasses need only be opened a 
little way in fine days, so as 'to allow any steam to 
pass off, especially if the plants are required to be 
drawn up quickly. By admitting a larger portion 
of air, the buds will rise slower, but will acquire a 
larger size, better flavour, and greener colour; 
hence you may sometimes, in the spring-made beds, 
take the glasses off entirely for a few hours on a 
warm dry day, particularly when the heat of the 
bed is considerable, on the first appearance of the 
buds after the bed is planted. 

After the bed has been made two or three weeks, 
and it is observed not to heat kindly, or rather to 
decline, it will be proper to line the outside with 
some fresh warm dung, which will forward and 
revive the heat more effectually. 

When the asparagus bed is planted, and the heat 
has begun to warm the roots, give the plants a 
good watering from out of a pot with a rose on it ; 
let the bed have enough to moisten the mould well 
and to wash it in among the roots. Repeat the 
watering occasionally ; it is, however, advisable to be 
sparing in the use of water at this season of the 
year. 

The asparagus is generally fit for cutting about 
five of sin weeks after the planting of the beds, or 
when the shoots are advanced four or five inches 
above the surface of the earth. 

In gathering the buds in hot-beds, it is best to 
break them off as close to tVie bottom as possible, 



ASFARAGUS. 19 

bjr thrasting the Qfigers and thumb down into the 
bed; it is less likely to injure the young shoots 
vbing below than by cutting them, as in the open 
grouiML 

The fo'ciBg of asparagus in fluid pits is by &r 
the ino9t eligible method, as Uiese nray answer 
many other purposes ; besides, the grass is of a 
mudi better colour and higher flavour Uian that 
produced on a dung hot-bed. As it frequently 
happens that this esculent is wanted in a hurry, in 
lai^e families, where much company is kept, the 
conveniency of a pit will be found a great relief in 
this respect. A pit twenty-flve or thirty feet long 
and six wide, and which one small fire can per- 
fectly command^ is large enough to force sufficient 
asparagus for a large family from November to May 
in a constant and regular succession ; after whidi it 
may be advantageously employed in raising a late 
crop o£ cucumbers or melons, or in striking young 
pine-apple plants, &c. The consumption of fuel 
necessary for this purpose is so trifling, even where 
it 18 most valuable, that it ought not to deter any 
one who requires asparagus, "" French beans, and 
salads, at an early season, from building so useful a 
compartment in the forcing garden. If a scrupulous 
attention is paid to the general' design, and par- 
ticularly to the construction of the fire-places and 
flues, this expedient will give more satisfaction to 
the gardener than any other hot-bed whatever, and 
in the end will prove a saving to the proprietor. 
The construction of this kind of pit is very simple, 
and can be built by any bricLKiyer at a small cost. 
We are indebted for the invention to M^^ViaxY^ «i^ 

c 2 



£0 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

eminent Scotch gardener, who treats of it fully in 
his work called << The Scotch Forcing Gardener.'* 
If the pits are from twenty to thirty feet long,- 
it will be sufficient to plant one half at a time; 
and, to keep a constant succession, the other half 
may be filled in about fifteen or twenty days after- 
wards, that they may begin to come up before the 
first is used ; after which, once every month or six 
weeks, according to the size of the pit and con^ 
sumption of the family, may be sufficient till the 
time for cutting in the open ground commencett^ 
The roots are planted in the same manner, and 
require the same treatment, as on the dung hot- 
bed, only, instead of dung, bark is usually sub^ 
stituted to fill the pits. Air must be admitted 
every day, to allow the steam to pass off; and more 
fireely, as the weather will permit, when the buds 
begin to appear, for the sake of the colour and 
flavour of the plants. The heat of the bed can be 
much bettier regulated by this kind of pit, and all 
the work done with much greater nicety and less 
toil to the gardener than by the old and common 
method of dung hot-beds* 

3. BASIL.— 'OcTMUM. 

This plant is supposed to owe its Latin name to 
the strong scent for which several species of this 
genus arc remarkable. Some derive it, with great 
probability, from a Greek word signifying quickfy^ 
with reference to the rapid germination and growth 
of the plant after the seed is sown, especially if the 
weather is hot and dry. They are, for the most 



BASIL. 21 

part, of East Indian origin, and are also found in 
some parts of Africa. There are two varieties 
in caltavation : •— 

' 1. Ocymum basilicum, the sweet or large- 
leaved* 

2. Ocymiim minimum, the small*leaved or bush 
basn. 

The former is principally used for culinary pur* 
poses ; the latter is much smaller, being a compact, 
dwarfish, bushy plant, and used more for ornament ; 
bttt^Uie scent and quality are the same. 

Both varieties are annuals, and flower in June 
and July; they were introduced into this country 
in the year 1573, but were very partially used till 
the begmning of the last century. 

The French are now so partisJ to the flavour and 
qualities of this plant, that its leaves enter into the 
composition of ^most all their soups and sauces. 
The leaves or leafy tops, are the parts gathered for 
use, and, on account of their strong flavour of 
doves, are often used in bighly-seasoned dishes. 
A few leaves are sometimes introduced into salad, 
and Very frequently into soups. . 

Cukurc—rBpth sorts are raised from seed, and 
should be sown on a gentle hot-bed in March. 
When the plants are two or three inches high^ they 
may be transplanted into a wapm border of light 
rich earth, in rows of six or eight inches' distance 
• apart each way, and must be watered occasionally 
till they have taken root. 

Sometimes both varieties are sown in the open 
ground: but with this treatment they come up 
vecy late aod small. 

c 3 



22 THE VEGETABLB CULTIVATOR. 

They are* very tender plants, easily cut up by the 
early autumn frosts ; they should then be pulled up 
by the roots^ tied in small bunches, and hui^ up 
in some airy room to dry, when they will continue 
to retain a great portion of their aromatic quaiities. 

4. BEAN. — ViciA. 

The original Latin name of the bean was fc^kh 
but of late botanists have made it a specific to the 
vetch. 

The bean is a native of the East, and particularly 
of Egypt ; but it has been known in this country 
from time immemorial, and was in all probability 
introduced by the Romans. 

The seeds are the only part used in cookery ; 
which, after being boiled, are considered a very 
wholesome aliment. They are seldom eaten in this 
country in their dried state^ but when sent to table 
young are generally admired^ particulariy as an ac- 
companiment to bacon. 

There are many varieties of the bean at present 
under cultivation ; the following are selected ai the 
principle and most distinct sorts : — • 

1. Early Mazagan, so named from a settlement of 
the Portuguese on the coast of Morocco. It is one 
of the hardiest and best flavoured of the small and 
early sorts ; but is but partially planted at present, 
on account of the introduction of other superior 
varieties. 

2. The Lisbon is next in point of earliness : it is 
much like the Mazagan ; but the seeds are rather 
larger. 



BEAN. S3 

t 

'- 3. Early Long-pod ; so called from the shape of 
ihe pod, and its earliness. This is a most prolific 
variety, and is consequently a great acquisition to 
the cottage gardener. Some of the principal seed* 
growers hare of late considerably improved the 
long-pod variety, with regard to its earliness and 
productiveness. The author can prove this from 
aetoal observation ; having seen every variety of the 
bean growing last season, in the nursery grounds 
of Mr. William Rogers of Southampton, who is in 
the babit of annually testing the merit of every 
new production of culinary seeds before offering 
tiiem for sale. 

4. Sword, or Turkey Long-pod, is an excellent 
bean, being very prolifie and. well-flavoured: it is 
very like the common long*pod, wjitii only a slight 
difference in the growth of the pods* 

5. Mumford. — This variety is not so often cul- 
tivated now, in consequence of its resemblance to 
the Toker. The beans sold under these names ar« 
a smaller kind of Windsor ; the several sizes being 
divided by a sieve made for the purpose. 

6. Sandwieh Broad-bean. — A very good kind; 
formerly in great repute v it is now superseded by 
the Windsor ; but, being harder, is commonly sown 
a month eadier : it is* a plentiful bearer ; but not 
very delicate for the table. 

?• Broad Windsor is allowed to* be the best of att 
the sorts for the table. When they are planted in 
a good soil, and allowed sufficient room, their seeds 
will be very large and in great plenty ; and, when 
gathered young, they are the sweetest and best tasted 
of any. This sort of bean is seldom planted before 

c 4 



2i THE VE6ETABLB CULTIVATOR. 

Cliristmas, because it will not bear the frost so w^ 
as numy of the other sorts : it is generally planted 
^for the main crop to come in June and July. There 
are several sub-varieties ; such as the broad Wind- 
sor, Kentish Windsor, and Taylor's Windsor. TIms 
latter is the best and most generally cultivated. 

8. White-blossomed Bean, so called because tbe 
black mark on the wing of the blossom is wanting. 
This sort, from its having less of the peculiar beaii 
flavour, when young, than any of the others, is 
in much esteem with many persons : it also boils 
very green ; it bears abundance of smallish, long, 
narrow pods ; and the seeds are almost black wheo 
ripe. 

9. Green Nonpareil, a delicate and fine-flavoured 
variety, is now generally planted for a late crop, 
for which purpose it is admirably fitted. 

10. Dwarf Fan, or Cluster Bean, grows about a 
foot high, throwing up three or four stems from 
each root : it is usually planted for curiosity ; bat 
may be cultivated in a small garden. 

11. Green Windsor is a very delicate bean, and 
is planted at the same time as the white Windsor. 

12. New Dwarf Prolific is a good new sort, hav- 
ing the excellent qualities which its name implies. 

Culture. — To procure an eariy crop of beans, 
the author recommends an early sort to be sown 
towards the end of October, in a warm border, ex* 
posed to the sun: they must be set in rows, two 
feet asunder, and three inches apart in the rows, 
and about two inches deep. 

To obtain a very early crop, a successful me- 
tbod is to aow the beans thickly together in a. 



BiUiir. 35 

bed of Ughl et^piki under a warm aspect, with the 
TiQW of protecting them from the severe frosty and 
of tianspknting them to warm borders in the 
q^ngi The width of a garden-frame will be 
found sufficient ground for planting the beans. If 
there ia a frame to spare, place it over them; and 
in frosty weather. the lights can be put on and 
otherwise protected with garden mats and dry 
litter : on no account omit giving a supply of fresh 
air. in mild weather, or the plants will be drawn up 
weakly^ and spoiled. They remain in the bed till 
February, or March, when, as soon as the weather 
adpnits, transplant them into a warm south border, 
in rows two feet apart, or by the warm side of the 
i^pleys between. the asparagus beds, which, with 
care, will not interfere with the work necessary to 
be done to them in the spring. In removing the 
bean plants from the seed-bed, ease them out with 
all tbeir . roots, and with as much mould as will 
adhere to them. Their after-culture only requires 
a little earthing up^ and their tops to be pinched off 
when in bloom. 

By the above mode of treatment the fruiting of 
the beans will be accelerated at least ten days or a 
fortnight before any that are planted in the open 
groundy let the weather be ever so favourable; 
besides, in severe weather, there will be a cer- 
tainty, of a crop. 

,cFor a succession, any of the eai*ly kiuds may be 
planted at the end of November and in December. A 
new early variety of the long-pod, raised by Messrs. 
Fidd apd Child, of Thames Street, London, is a 
moat excellent one for. the purpose. The M.^z^^gui. 



26 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

bean is now generally planted for the very early 
crops. 

For the first principal crop of beans, any of the 
sorts may be sown in drills ; the large beans, two 
feet and a half apart between the rows, and three 
inches ia the rows^ and the same depth : the smaller 
varieties are not planted quite so far apart, and not 
80 deep; two inches being sufficient. If the weather 
is mild, the latter end of January or the beginning 
of February will be a proper time for planting them, 
in some good, rich, mellow ground. 

For the next principal and full-succession crops, 
plant again in March and April, and so continue 
till June and July, when the small early kinds again 
become the most proper, as their hardiness fits 
them for standing late as well as early. For late 
productions, the green nonpareil, toker, and early 
long-pods are the best : the white-blossomed bean 
is also a very desirable sort for secondary crops, 
both in the general and late planting season. For 
the main summer crops, adopt principally the broad 
Windsor, long-pod, and green nonpareil varileties. 

In planting late crops in June and July, if the 
weather is dry, the beans may be soaked in soft 
water for several hours previous to being planted ; or 
the drills can be watered, and the beans put in and 
covered up directly, while the earth remains moist. 

The following expedient is sometimes resorted to- 
in order to obtain a late crop : «- Select a few rows 
of beans planted at the usual season in March, and 
when the flowers appear, cut them down to within 
a few inches of the ground. New stems will spring 
from the root, and produce a very late crop of beans. 



BEET. 27 

Nothing is required to be done, after ihe beam 
are three or four inches high, but to hoe up some 
earth to the stems, on both sides of each row, and 
to clear away the weeds. Repeat the hoeing as 
future weeds arise, both to keep the ground about 
the plants clear, and to loosen the earth in order to 
encourage their growth. 

As the different crops come into full blossom, 
pinch off the tops, in order to promote their fruit* 
ing sooner, in a more plentiful production of well- 
filled pods : this is also a preventive against the black 
blight, which so often attacks this crop, especially 
in confined situations* The pods are fit to gather 
for the table when they attain about half the size 
which they should possess at maturity. If left 
longer, they become black*eyed, tough, and strong* 
tastejl, and very inferior for^use. 

5. BEET. — Beta. 

Beta takes its name from the shape of its seed* 
vesself which, when it swells with seed, has the 
form of the letter so called in the Greek alphabet 

The beet is a native of Sicily and of the sea- 
coast of the south of Europe. It was introduced 
into this country, with many other culinary plants^ 
in the year 1548. 

There are six varieties of the beet in cultivation 
for culinary purposes, but some are much more ex- 
tensively used than others. The following list gives 
the name, merit, and use of each : — 

1. Red Beet — ^This sort is highly valaed for its 
large red root, which often grows twelve or fiftee^ 



28 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

inches long, and three or four inches thick. The 
roots being tender, sweet, and palatable, are boiled» 
then sliced and eaten cold, with vinegar, ftc ; they 
are aIso sliced and scraped in salads, both as an 
eatable ingredient, and by way of garnish ; they also 
make an agreeable pickle. A beet-root, sliced np 
with a Reading or Portugal onion boiled also in 
soft water, will be found a very nice condiment 
with cold meat, if mixed with spices and vinegar, 
and an egg or two boiled hard. The root itself, if 
eaten alone, affords but little nourishment; it isi 
therefore, generally used as a luxury. 

2. Turnip-rooted Beet is an earlier variety, and 
much shorter and thicker than the former, but is 
equally good in every respect for use : in both sorts 
those that are of the largest growth and darkest 
red colour are the most valuable. 

3. White fieet (Beta Cicld) was brought to Eng- 
land from Portugal in the year 1570, and is in much 
esteem for the stalks and ribs of the large leaves, 
which, being divested of the leafy part, and peeled, 
are great improvers of soup, and useful also for 
stewing, and to be dressed and eaten like aspara- 
gus : the leaves themselves are fine pot-herbs. The 
above three varieties are mostly cultivated for culi- 
nary use. 

4. Green-leaved Beet is much grown in Scotland, 
and is used for the same purposes as the white ; 
but it is not so much esteemed, being smaller and 
less delicate. It is fit for use all the winter. 

5. Yellow or Mangel Worzel Beet is principally 
grown as a valuable agricultural plant, for feeding 
cattle, and making sugar. The roots grow to a large 



BEET. 29 

stiB, but are greatly inferior, for culinary purposes^ 
lK>di to the red beet and most other of our esou^^ 
Ifint roots. They are sometimes dressed like carrots 
pr parsnips, sliced and served up vith melted but- 
ter, but are generally mawkish and unpalatable. 
The leayes, however, are of most value ; and, if the 
plants. have room enough, they will grow twelve or 
fifteen inches broad, and to a considerable length : 
the young, thick, fleshy stalks, divested of the lamina 
of the leaf, peeled or scraped, and then boiled and 
served up with butter, are tender and agreeal^ 
to the taste. The green leaves are also occasionally 
dressed as spinach, which it much resembles. 
» 6. Silver or Sea*kail Beet. — This sort is considered 
by some to be. superior to the JBeia Cickt: it is 
much cultivated in the neighbourhood of South- 
ampton, on account of its large midribs, which, 
when cooked, resemble sea-kail. The author saw 
some fine improved specimens of this variety grow- 
ing in Mr. Rogers's nursery a few weeks since ; he 
also tasted the stalks and leaves cooked, both of 
which he considers very palatable and wholesome. 

A large quantity of sugar can be obtained from 
the beet-root ; and it has of lato been extensively 
cultivated for that purpose, especially in France 
and Germany. 

CfuUure. — Little art is required in the cultivation 
of the beet ; all the varieties are raised from seed 
•own annually in March or April, in the place 
where the plants are to remain ; for it will not do 
to transplant them, if a large, clean, well-grown root 
is. wanted. 

The soil in which it grows best is a deep, richy 



so THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

light, sandy earth, in an open situation. After the 
ground has been dug, manured, and well broken, 
the seed may be sown either broad-cast, and raked 
well into the ground, or, as the author considers far 
preferable, in shallow drills, at the distance of a 
foot apart : sow the seeds thinly, and rake the earth 
over them smoothly, about an inch deep. The 
plants come up in a month ; and when they 
are advanced into leaves an inch or two broad, 
they require to be thinned and cleared from 
weeds, which may be performed either by hand- 
weeding or with a small hoe : the plants, when pro- 
perly thinned, remain at the distance of ten or 
twelve inches each way. The turnip-rooted sort is 
rather less. The red beet-roots will acquire their 
full growth by September or October, and can then 
be taken up for use when wanted. Towards the 
end of November all the remaining roots should be 
taken up on a dry day, and divested of any soil 
hanging to them ; the leaves must then be cut off 
within an inch of the crown, and care must be 
taken that the roots are not in any way cut or 
broken, as they bleed much. After the roots are 
well dried, they may be laid in a box or bed of dry 
sand or earth, and placed in a cellar or shed, where 
they will remian good throughout the winter and 
the early part of spring. 

The chard beet is raised in the same manner as 
the other sorts ; but the seed should be sown in 
drills, eighteen inches apart, and afterwards thinned 
to the distance uf twelve inches, to allow of the ex- 
pansion of its large succulent leaves. They are com- 
monly in perfection in June and July. In gather- 



BORECOLE. 31 

ing them» take the large outward leaves, allowing 
the others to come in fur use in their turn, as ao 
abundant successive supply rises from the root 



6. BORECOLE. — Brassica. 

Borecole is classed under the head BrcuHccL 
(Cabbage) in the Linnaean system ; but it is distin- 
guished from that variety by the addition of sabel^ 
lica to that of brassica^ the meaning of which is a 
plant with curled or jagged leaves. 

The latter part of the word borecole is ob- 
viously the kohl, or principal winter cabbage, of the 
Germans : but the origin of the first part is un- 
certain. 

This variety contains several sub-varieties which 
are of a peculiarly hardy nature, resisting severe 
frosts, and retaining their green appearance through- 
out the winter. 

The following are the principal sorts in cultiva-' 
tion : — 

1. Tall green or Scotch Kail. — This sort, if 
genuine, may be known by its bright light-green 
leaves, which are deeply lobed and curled : it is 
equal to any other sort either in producing sprouts 
or in withstanding the severe weather. 

The parts used are the crown of the plant, and 
the side shoots. It boils well, and is tender, sweet, 
and delicate, especially after having been exposed 
to the frost ; it is almost impossible to find a plant 
of greater excellence for the table, or more easy of 
cultivation : hence it should be largely cultivated in 
every garden, especially in that of the cottager. 



33 



THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 



2. Dwarf-green, or Canada Kail, grows to a len 
size than the former, but is of the same quality, 
and proper for a small garden. 

S* Purple Borecole, or firown Kail, differs from 
the others, in the leaves and entire plant being of 
a deep purple colour. It is more hardy than the 
green, but of less delicate flavour. When it is boiled, 
the purple colour disappears. 

4. Buda, or Russian Kail, b not only very hardy 
and well-flavoured, but continues to produce sproutd 
much longer than any other variety. 

5. Jerusalem Kail, or Ragged Jack, is known by 
its long serrated leaves ; it is extremely hardy, and 
when the taller winter greens have ceased to grow, 
the shoots of this are ready to take their place 
at table; it is principally grown in the cottage 
gardens. 

6. Thousand-headed Cabbage grows to the height 
of four or Ave feet, and throws out numerous 
shoots from the main stem. It is chiefly extolled 
as an agricultural plant, but may occasionally be 
planted in gardens, because it will survive the 
severest frosts, and be useful when every other sort 
is destroyed ; but its flavour is inferior to all other 
winter greens. 

There are many other varieties of the borecole, 
but they are not fit for culinary use, being only cul- 
tivated for ornament or curiosity, and for agricul- 
tural purposes. 

CuUure. — All the varieties of borecole are 
raised from seed, which should be sown early in 
April ; the plants will then grow tall and afford an 
abundance of sprouts; a little seed can also be 



hi May and August to produce a late crop, 
iM Ute plants will be much smaller. 

The seeds can be sown thinly in a small bed of 

- ^iig ground in any part of the garden, and about 

^Ito middle of June^ if the plants are four inches 

^iilgh^ tiiey can be finally transplanted to an open 

' ^ikttpartment, ib rows two feet and a half apart, 

lUid eighteen inches in the row ; the smaller kinds 

'<»m be plants at a less d^tance; and they must be 

'iratet^ Ocdasiob^y> if the weather is dry, till they 

have struck root tt is a good pUm to prick out 

;^me in atk)thet> h^ about four inches apart, ^pe- 

' Mtdly if the plants come up rerj thick in the seed 

"^ t>i^ X tt& by this means they will become stronger and 

Hetter rooted fbr th6 final transplanting in May or 

^Un^ lU their adrancing growth, hoe the plants 

on^ 6r twice to clear them of weeds and to draw 

the edUh about the bottom of the stems, by way of 

^coumgiug their growth in the production of large 

full heads in proper season. 



7. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. — Var. Brassica, 

There is «o particular or specific name for this 
Vegetable^ but it is supposed to have originated from 
the Savoy. 

Of this famed vegetablej there is but one variety, 
which has been of late years in great repute in this 
country. Near Brussels, and other large towns in 
Zanders, the Choux de BruxeUes, as they are th^re 
called, are very extensively cultivated; and both 

D 



^ THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

there and here form an agreeable, wholesome^ and 
delicious dish, at the table both of the peer and the 
peasant. 

This plant produces an elongated stem, about, 
three feet high, which sprouts out shoots, and formB 
small green heads like cabbages in miniature, each 
being from one to two inches in diameter. The 
crown of the plant is not unlike a late planted 
savoy, and is cut off for use before the sprouts. 

This delicate vegetable can be cooked in several 
ways ; but the foUowing method, communicated to 
the author by a gentleman many years resident in 
Brussels, will be found to produce, as old Gerrard 
used to say, << a dainty dish." After the sprouts 
have been frosted, a process which renders them 
more tender and sweet, they may be gathered ; (the 
more close and compact they are the better.) Im- 
merse them in clear soft water for an hour or two> 
to cleanse them from any dirt or insects ; then boil 
them for about twenty minutes rather quickly, 
using plenty of water; when soft, they must be 
taken up and well drained ; they are then to be put 
into a stew-pan, with cream, or with a little fresh 
butter thickened with flour, and seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and stirred until they are thoroughly hot. 
They are served up to table with a little tomato 
vinegar, which greatly heightens their flavour. 

The higher classes in Flanders use them with 
iaimost every sort of meat, and often stew them 
in rich gravies. 

Culture. — It requires nearly the same treatment 
^ the borecole, only .it need not be planted at 
taaore than eighteen inches each way, as the head 



BROCOLf. 35 

fioes not spread wide, and the large side leaves 
generally drop off to make room for the sprouts. 
Xt*^ is advisable to sow the seed as early as the 
'^veather will permit in April, so as to forward the 
plants for transplanting to the beds. In saving 
the seed of this variety and every other of the 
l)rassica tribe, care should be taken that the plants 
of each sort be kept distinct, so that the farina may 
not get intermixed ; otherwise they are apt to sport 
smd rob each other of their best qualities. 

8. BROGOLI. — Var. Brassica. 

In Miller's Dictionary, under the article Bras* 
SIC A, the few brocolis then known are supposed 
to have proceeded from the cauliflower, which was 
originally imported from the island, of Cyprus, 
about the middle of the sixteenth century. Miller 
mentions the white and purple brocoli as coming 
from Italy ; and it is conjectured, that from these 
two sorts all the subsequent kinds have arisen, 
either by accidental or premeditated impregnation. 
There is no culinary plant so apt to sport as bro- 
coli ; hence new varieties are continually coming into 
notice. In their growth, habit, and eatable parts, 
they greatly resemble the cauliflower, all of them 
forming roundish heads in the centre of their 
leaves, composed entirely of a compact collection 
of numerous buds or ends of advancing shoots. 

The brocoli is cultivated principally for autumn, 
winter, and spring use, these being the seasons of 
its production in the greatest perfection. They 
are very hardy and resist the cold of an ordinary 



36 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

iiHnter, but very severe frosts will affect and some- 
times kill them, as was the case in the extraordinary 
Winter of 1838. 

The chief sorts and varieties in general cultiva- 
tion are as follow : — 

1. Early Purple Sprouting. This sort grows to 
a inodei^te hefight^ and produces smallish purple 
heads, and comes a fortnight or more earlier than 
thid others. It is proper for the first crop, which, 
if sown the latter end of March or beginning ot 
April, and again in May, and planted out in June 
and July, comes in for use from Michaelmas till 
Christmas. 

2. liiarge Late Purple is a robust and growing sort, 
a(nd produces a large purplish head like a cluster of 
buds, and is very delicate eating ; but as it grows 
tall, and is more likely to be injured by the frost, it 
in now generally superseded by the 

3. Dwarf Late Purple^ which seldom rises above 
a foot in height, and is an excellent late and hardy 
variety, being in perfection throughout April and the 
greatest part of May. When the heads of the above 
three varieties are gathered, the stalks produce 
plenty of fine sprouts terminated by small heads, 
which are as sweet and tender to the taste as the 
principal ones. 

4. Early Cape b a very useful variety. It pro- 
duces rather large heads with many shades of 
colour, but principally a reddish brown. As this 
sort comes very early, it is an acquisition; the 
heads, if genuine, are dose, firm, and compact, but 
in general they are not of first-rate quality, though a 
coDsideraMe improvement has been made in them 



3&0COLI. S7 

inrithiii tbe last forty years, at which time this variety 
was first introduced. 

5. Early White* The author recollects seeing 
this variety very fine above sixty years ago. The 
heads are white and of a close texture ; the plants 
are hardy, and grow about two feet high. This 
sort has of late been greatly improved, especially 
by Mr. Grange^ of Piccadilly and Covent-garden, 
who introduced the following variety, now exten- 
sively cultivated i-^ 

6. Grange's Early Cauliflower Brocoli, which pro- 
duces large, fine, compact, white heads, of a conical 
shape. The leaves nearly cover the heads, and thus 
afibrd protection in frosty weather. This sort is, 
irithout exception, one of the very best both, in 
colour, size, and flavour ; if the seed is sown at 
three ((ifiei'^t times, from the beginning of May 
until the end of June, the plants will produce in 
succession from Michaelmas to Christmas. 

?• Invisible, or Cup-leaved, derives its name from 
the long hollow leaves which cross each other on 
the top of the head and render it invisible, and 
greatly protect it from the severity of the weather. 
As it is a late sort, this natural protection renders 
it a great acquisition. The heads are of middling 
size and a beautiful white, colour. 

8. Sulphur-coloured or Portsmouth Brocoli. 
There are many other names attached to this fine 
variety in the seedsmen's catalogues, but from 
twenty years' practice and observation, the author 
pronounces them to be derived from that stockf 
which for a nunber of years has been largely 
cqltivfited in the vicinity of Portsmouth, the lide 

D 3 



S8 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

of Wight, and Southampton, where perhaps they 
are produced larger and finer than in any place in 
the world. This variety is grown also by the Londoa 
market-gardeners, but not with such success. The 
late Mr. Matyear, of Fulham, who had above 100 
acres of land under spade cultivation, obtained 
from Mr. W. Rogers some of the genuine seed 
from Portsmouth for trial, but after two or three 
seasons, the heads greatly decreased in size and 
quality. The author considers the soil near London 
as too rich and light for growing this sort in per- 
fection : the soil round Portsmouth is not so highly 
manured, and is rather of a strong loamy kind ; the 
climate, too, is perhaps more genial. It is a valuable 
sort, being hardy and exceeding all others in size. 
The heads are a buff or cream colour, and very firm 
and .compact ; they come in principally from the 
end of April to the beginning of June. 

9. Late Dwarf Tartarian. This sort approaches 
nearest to the cauliflower than any other ; it is quite 
as delicate and very white. It has but lately been 
introduced, and is a valuable acquisition ; the plants 
can be planted at the distance of eighteen inches 
each way, as they do not grow to a large size, and 
seldom more than one foot in height ; they are very 
hardy and the latest variety of brocoli in cultivation. 
Many gardeners who have plenty of spare ground 
grow them for early spring cabbages or borecole ; 
and they are found very delicate and wholesome 
winter greens after Christmas. The author would 
strongly recommend the cultivation of this sort in 
every garden as a superior and delicate vegetable. 
. 10. Early Malta White is a good sort, and pro- 



BROCOLI. 39 

duces heads of a middling size and white ; it is no^ 
unlike the Tartarian, but it comes much earlier. 

11. Green-headed Winter Brocoli is a variety 
ftom the purple cape, and closely succeeds it in 
<soming into use. The plants are dwarf ; the heads 
^row exposed and do not obtain a large size. The 
greatest care should be taken in saving the seeds of 
this variety, as they are apt to sport and degenerate« 
This remark applies generally to all the sorts. 

12. Miller's Late Dwarf White is also an ex- 
cellent variety ; it comes late, and is of great deli- 
cacy. There are also many other white sorts, but 
they greatly resemble one another; the best and 
most distinct are named in the above list, and these 
will be found quite sufficient for cultivation in any 
garden. 

Culture. — All the different sorts and varieties 
are raised f^om seed sown in the open ground at 
various times. Brocoli in general succeeds best in 
a fresh rich loamy soil, where it comes more true 
and hardy ; but if this cannot be procured, deep 
digging, with plenty of manure, is the only alter- 
native to obtain good crops. 

The principal seasons for sowing the main crops 
are March and April for the autumn and winter pro- 
ductions, and May and the beginning of June for 
the principal successive crops to come in for the 
spring supplies : some may occasionally be sown as 
early as February, or the beginning of March in a 
wiarm situation. But if the weather should prove 
very severe, some protection will be necessary, such 
as a spare frame, or (what is very good) some dried 
Uni^t as this is of a light nature, admits of a circulatioA 

D 4 



40 tHE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

of nir, and prevents the plants from being drawn up. 
The white cauliflower, and purple sprouting broeoli 
mre generally the first sown, in order to obtain an 
earlier autunin production, in the beginning of 
September and October. 

The cape is sown about the latter end of MB.yf 
Hud will produce heads early in the autumn ; a sue- 
oession may be continued in nearly all the sorts by 
a second and third planting from such as remain in 
the seed beds. 

If the large late purple is sown about the end ol 
March, fine heads may be expected about that time 
twelvemonth. The proper time for sowing the 
Portsmouth brocoli is the second week in April ; and 
should the plants come up too thick, they ms^ be 
hoed with a two-inch hoe, or thinned out with die 
band. 

The Tartarian variety should be sown between 
the 1st and 10th of April ; they will then produce 
their milk white heads about the end of May and 
beginning of June. 

The seed of the difierent varieties of brocoli 
should be sown in an open exposure, where the 
plants grow much stronger than on narrow borders 
under walls. Each sort must be sowu separately^ 
moderately thick on the surface, and raked iu 
slightly ; if the weather at the time of sowing is very 
dry, water the bed occasionally with a rose watering 
pot, until the seeds appear, which will be in abou( 
tea days or a fortnight. The time of finally transr 
planting them is June, July, and August, and the ber 
ginning of September, according to the time they wep^ 
sown, or are desired for use. The plants delight ip 



BROqOTf. 41 

^SL rich Ipiitny soil in an open situation. After the 
jground has been well dug, and well manured for a 
J^revious crop, they may be put in ; if the weather 
jU moist at the time, so much the better. They 
exe tQ be planted in rows two feet and a half apart, 
aand two feet distant in the rows ; but for some of the 
exoall dwarf varieties, such as the Tartarian and 
"white Malta, eighteen inches each way wiU b<e found 
sufficient. As soon as they are planted they should 
"be watered, and if the weather is dry this process 
should be continued every other day, until they 
isLve taken root. Their further culture is to keep 
them clear from weeds, by hoeing the ground 
occasionally, and when they have advanced a little 
in growth, to draw some earth about their stems, 
which, if repeated now and then, will be of ad- 
vantage in promoting their growth. 

In gathering brocoli for use the heads should be 
cut while they remain close^ and before they begin 
to divide and assume a seedy-like appearance, and 
with about six inches of the main stalk to each 
head. 

Various methods have been advised for the pro* 
tection of this vegetable in winter, which, if it 
proves severe, destroys a number of plants, espe- 
cially if the early part has been mild and open* 

The most secure way is, if there is the conve* 
niency of a shed or cellar, to take up such plants 
i|s are the most forward in flower, and set them 
nearly upright in moist sand or light mould, where 
tbey will continue to vegetate, and come to perfec- 
tion sufficiently to answer the purpose intended. 
Another method is practised by some of the 



42 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

market'gardeners round London, which is to raise 
the plants with a fork, and lay them slopingly, with 
their heads towards the north, and only a few 
inches from the ground. By this means the plants 
are soon covered and protected by the snow, which 
generally falls previous to long and severe frosts. 
It abo renders the plants hardier, by the check re« 
oeived in their partial removal. 

a BURNET — PoTERiuM. 

Burnet is a hardy, indigenous, perennial, plant; 
and is found growing wild on the chalky lands and 
and heathy commons of England. Its Latin name, 
Poterium, signifies a cup. 

The parts made use of in culinary purposei^ are 
the young leaves, which are put into salads, and 
occasionally into soups, to which it gives a pleasant 
and somewhat warm taste. When slightly bruised^ 
the leaves smell not unlike cucumber. It was for- 
merly in much greater repute than at present, and 
was a favourite herb for cool tankards, a name 
which is now almost obliterated from our memory. 
The French are very partial to this herb, and con- 
sume great quantities of it in their soups. The 
plants, continue green through the winter, when 
many other salad plants are cut off, or in a state 
unfit for use. 

' CkiUure. — As the young leaves of the herb are 
always most preferable, a small quantity of see4 
should be sown annually, in the spring or early iq 
the autumn, in shallow drills, in a shady situation,) 
and may afterwards be transplanted into rows, or ^ 



CABBAGE. 43 

bed* at six inches, plant from plant. They are also 
neadily propagated by parting the roots early in th^ 
spring. 

10. CABBAGE. — Brassica. 

We are now come to the head of a most widely-* 
c^ultivated genus, from which the varieties of bras- 
sica, before and hereafter named, are supposed to 
liave proceeded. 

The cabbage is one of our most ancient and salu- 
l>rious vegetables ; and as an esculent, it stands in 
the highest estimation. 

Brassica is supposed by some to be derived from 
a Greek word, signifying to devour, because it is 
eagerly eaten by cattle. Linnaeus derives it from 
the same word, and, rightly rendering it to boil, 
supposes the plant was so called from its being a 
oommon pot-herb. 

The word cabbage, by which all the varieties of 
this plant are now improperly called^ means the 
firm head or ball that is formed by the leaves turn- 
ing close over each ether ; from that circumstance 
we say the cole has cabbaged, the lettuce has cab- 
baged, or the tailor has cabbaged, which last means 
the rolling up pieces of cloth, instead of the list 
and shreds, which tailors claim as their due. 

Like all other cultivated plants, the cabbage haa 
gradually undergone so many changes, and assumed 
so Hiany permanent varieties, that it is not easy to 
form a description which will apply to the whole. 
Great improvements have been made in this ex- 
cellent vegetable since the beginning of the last 



44» THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

century, principally by the skill and industry of 
the Battersea and other market-gardeners round 
London. 

Cabbages were a favourite vegetable with the 
Romans, and must have been known, in some of 
their varieties, to our Saxon ancestors, since the 
month of February was called by them sproutcale. 

The principal varieties in general cultivation are 
the following, all of which the author has cultivated 
more or less for a number of years : — 

1. Early York. This has been a most valuable 
early cabbage since its introduction, which took 
place above 100 years ago. It was first brought 
to this country from Flanders by a private soldier, 
named Telford, who was there many years in the 
reign of Queen Anne. On his arrival in England,^ 
he settled as a, seedsman in Yorkshire, whence the 
name and celebrity of this cabbage* Its earlines^ 
and delicate taste and flavour still retain it in esti-^ 
mation ; and on account of its small dwarf growth, 
a great many can be planted in a small compass. 

2. Battersea is a roundish, oval-headed, and 
middling-sized cabbage, that heads quick, and comes 
in early, and is excellent for use while moderately 
young, and before it becomes very hard. It is a 
valui^le sort for the cottage-gardener. 

3. Early Nonpareil. This sort is quite new, and, 
the vejy best in cultivation. It comes in and heads 
quicker than any other ; and is also of a good size, 
ond of very delicate flavour. Though at present it 
is not generally known, the author makes no doubts 
from what he has seen of it, that it will become a 
leading variety. 



CABBAGE. 45 

4. Early Sugar-loiif. This, sort was in high ^sti* 
mation fifty years ago, being mostly cultiyated in 
gentlemen's gardens ; and the author has doubts 
if the true sort (which should be perfectly conical) 
is now in existence. It was a superior cabbage in! 
respect of its keeping hollow much longer than any 
other early sort. 

5. I^gntdn or t^enton is a favourite cabbage in 
Cornwall and Devon : in these counties it is called 
early, though it is fully a month after the earliest 
about London. It grows to a largish size, and the 
flavour aad taste are excellent. 

6- Vanack. This variety was introduced matty 
years ago by a wealthy Dutch merchant, of the 
name of Vanack, who inhabited a house at Putney, 
Hear London. It was in his time, and for many 
years afterwards, in much repute as a sweet and 
delicate variety ; but of late the author has heard 
but little of it. 

7* East Ham, in Essex, is famed for producing a 
fine early cabbage, which, in some places, is exten- 
sively cultivated : it is hot unlike the 

8. Early Imperial Brompton, which is a most ex- 
cellent cabbage, being both early and delicate, and 
attains a good size« It is a very useful and profit- 
able sort for the cottager and market-gardener. 

9« Early Russia is a smaU roundish cabbage, that 
Comets in about June and July, heads very fast, and 
soon grows hard ; but if used While young and hol- 
low, it is very sweet and tender. 

10* Early Emperor is a good early cabbage ; but 
the author is not aware of its superior qualities to 
marit so high sounding a name. Therb is another 



46 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Bimilar variety designated in the seedsmen'd cata- 
logues as the early Wellington. 

11. Fulbam. This variety is one of the best in 
eultivation for every culinary purpose, being eariy, 
of a good size, and well iBavoured, and not so liable 
to crack after forming the heads, as some of the 
tythers. 

12. Flat Dutch or Drumhead b a very large 
ipreading cabbage, generally very broad, and flat 
at the top, and pretty close and firm. It is in per* 
fection in September, and will continue till Christ- 
mas, or longer. It is principally valued as a field 
cabbage for feeding cattle, but is eligible also for 
0(Ccasional family use. 

13. Red Dutch is a middle-sized, roundish, thick* 
leaved cabbage, heading very hard, and the whole of 
a red purplish colour; the darker the colour, and the 
more thick and fleshy the leaves, without any white 
in the ribs and veins, the more valuable. It is in 
perfection from autunm until the end of winter, as 
well as in all the spring months till May. This sort 
is esteemed principally as a choice pickle, and is 
sometimes sliced in salads in its raw state. All these 
sorts or varieties of cabbage are biennial, being 
raised from seed, and attaining perfectioii the first 
year, and the second shooting up into stalk, to 
flower and seed, and soon after wholly perishing. 

Culture, — Fortunately the cabbage, one of our 
most valuable vegetables, can be cultivated by the 
most simple and easy means ; it grows in most soils 
likely to nourish a plant, and produces its beneficial 
heads nearly all the year round. In land that has 
been previously well manured, they do best, espe- 



CABBAGE. . 47 

oially if it is of a light warm nature, such soil prCH 
ducing the earliest cabbages. 

When the land is naturally good, the less dung 
that is made use of, the sweeter and finer the 
vegetable; but where it is poor and indifferent, 
(the whole of the Brassica tribe being of an ex- 
hausting nature,) then and then only is a heavy coat 
of manure necessary. To produce a constant sue* 
cession of ca})bages, three different sowings will be 
Becessary, that is, spring, summer, and autumn. 

For the principal spring and early sunmier crops, 
the seed of the early York, nonpareil, or any other 
early sort, may be sown from the last week in 
July until ^e end of the second week in August. 
Each sort should be sown separately on a bed of 
light earth, broad cast, moderately thick, and raked 
in evenly and lightly. The situation must be open, 
Miiether in the seed-bed, or final plantation, as under 
the drip of trees, or in the shade, seedlings are 
drawn up weak, and grown crops are meagre, worm* 
e^ten, and ill-flayoured. 

If the weather is very dry at the time the seed is 
■own, occasional waterings will be necessary, or the 
beds can sometimes be shaded with a garden mat, 
or covered with fern, in hot sunny days, till the 
plants are well up. 

Towards the end of October, the forwardest plants 
of this sowing, provided they have been properly 
thinned, will be fit to plant out for the first and 
principal crop in some rich well dug ground, in rows 
two feet apart ; but the early and small varieties can 
be planted nearer — twelve or eighteen inches will 
be found sufficient. 



48 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

In their subsequent growth, if any fail or run to 
seed, be careful, to pull them up directly, and supply 
the deficiencies with fresh plants. As the crop pro- 
ceeds, frequent hoeings, by destroying theweeds^ 
loosening the ground between the plants, and draw- 
ing some earth round the stems* will strengthen and 
forward them considerably. 

For a successional crop, the large and late sorts 
can be sown at the same time as the early; and 
with the same care and treatment, they will produce 
cabbages in succession, accorcUng to the lateness of 
the sort. 

For a late summer and autumn crop, sow the 
seeds as before directed, the end of Febru&ry or 
beginning of March. A few for early summer use, 
may be sown the third Week of February on a 
slight hot bed, or on a warm border under glass. 
The plants will be suitable for transplanting in 
May, June, or July ; their after-culture is the same 
as has been advised for the August sown plants. 

For an autumn and winter crop of young cab* 
bages, sow the Fulham, nonpareil, or any quick - 
hearting kinds, about the third week in May : when 
fit, plant them out at the distance of eighteen in* 
ches apart each way, and they will be found most 
acceptable about Michaelmas, and wilt continue in 
good order for usq till the severe fW>sts set in. 

After cutting the cabbages^ never neglect inmie* 
diately to pull up the stalks, and carry them off with 
the refuse leaves to the compost heap. This prac- 
tice is enjoined, as well to prevent the stem from 
pushing out shoots, and needlessly exhausting the 
ground, as to promote neatness and order. It is 



CABBAGE. 49 

necessary, however, to make an exception with 
jregard to removing the roots and stems of the late 
summer and autumn crop ; as, by depriving them of 
their old and injured leaves and stirring the ground 
between the rows, they may be allowed to stand till 
the spring. Thus treated, the stalks in January 
and Februairy abound in fine cabbage sprouts, and, 
aflter being boiled, will be found very tender and 
not inferior to young cabbages. 

The original variety of cabbage, called colewort, 
seems to be lost, and is now succeeded by what are 
called cabbage coleworts, which at the present day 
are nearly as valuable as an early crop of cabbages. 
Many hundreds of acres are annually planted in 
the vicinity of London, and the author has known 
two crops cleared off from the same piece of ground, 
soon after Christmas ; he therefore recommends the 
adoption of it not only to the gentleman's gardener, 
but to the market gardener and cottager. 

The seed for raising this crop should be sown 
the last week in June and the middle of July, in 
beds the same as for cabbage plants ; the forwardest 
will be fit for transplanting in about six weeks, in 
August, September, and October, and will amount 
to a continued provision of autumn, winter, and 
early spring coleworts. As it is intended to gather 
them when young, they may be planted in open 
compartments of ground, in rows twelve or fifteen 
inches apart and eight or ten inches in the lines. 
At the time of planting, if the weather is very dry 
and warm, a watering would be of advantage. In 
their subsequent growth, they require to be kept 
clear from large weeds by occasional hoeing, though 

£ 



50 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

this is seldom necessary, as they come so soon> thus 
leaving the ground vacant for any other early crop» 
Mrhich not being ready, or too soon, another lot of 
coleworts can be planted ; and from their coming so 
quickly, little nourishment is drawn from the ground. 
They should be pulled up as they are wanted for 
use, according to the quantity required, and when 
beginning to heart they will be found far superior 
in every way to the sprouts of the early cabbages, 
which have generally undergone the ordeal of the 
caterpillars and other insects. 

The propagation and culture of the red cabbage 
are the same in all respects as for the white, excepting 
that the heads are never used when imperfectly 
formed, dr as coleworts; but the plants should, in 
all cases, be allowed to stand till they have formed 
close, firm heads. 

Two sowings will be necessary; the first and 
principal one in August, for a crop to stand the 
winter, and to come in at the close of next summer ; 
the second early in spring, for returns in the follow- 
ing winter and spring. 

11. CARDOON. — Cynara. 

The name oi cynara is given to this plant from a 
supposition that it is allied to the artichoke : the 
word carduncvXus is added to cynara from its thistle 
like appearance. The Italian name of oardoon is 
derived from that term. The cardoon is somewhat 
like the artichoke, but rises to a greater height : 
it also produces flowers like that plant in August 
and September. • 



CARDOON. 51 

The cardoon, of which the Spanish variety is the 
l)e8t, may be called one of the fanciful vegetables, 
9uid is almost exclusively raised for the higher 
classes, who must sometimes pay a high price for 
it, though certainly not more than the time and 
labour expended in its cultivation demand. At 
best it has but little nutriment The tender stalks 
of the inner leaves of the cardoon, rendered white 
and tender by earthing up, are used by professed 
cooks for stewing, and for soups and salads, in 
autumn and winter. 

On the continent, it is in considerable repute, as 
indeed are many of the salad and pot-herbs, which 
are comparatively neglected in this country. 

The cardoon is a native of Candia, and was in- 
troduced into England in 1658, and is known in all 
the European languages under the same name. 

Ctdture. — This is easily accomplished by sowing 
the seed about the latter end of Aprils in the places 
where the plants are to remain. 

They are found to succeed best on such soils as 
are of the deep sandy loamy kinds, and which 
have not been much enriched by manure from 
long cultivation. 

There are two methods of raising this vegetable 
from seed. The first is to sow in a bed of common 
iight earth, moderately thin, and to have the seed 
raked in evenly. When the plants are well up, thin 
them to three or four inches' distance, to give them 
room to acquire stocky growth for transplanting, 
which will be done in about eight weeks, in the man- 
ner hereafter directed. The opportunity of a moist 
or rainy time must be taken to transplant them, for 

£ 2 



52 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

in dry seasons it is very hazardous, and the plants 
will probably fail, unless well shaded and watered. 

The following way is generally practised, and is 
by far the best, being unfailing and attended with 
less labour. 

Prepare a trench about a foot wide, similar to 
such as is made for celery, and into which a small 
quantity of rotten dung has been previously dug. 
If one trench is not sufficient, more can be prepared, 
at the distance of four or five feet apart, which will 
be found little enough when the plants come to be 
earthed up, as they grow to a large size and five 
feet high. 

In the centre of the trench draw a shallow driUj 
and sow the seed an inch or two apart, and when 
the young plants have grown about two inches 
high, they should be thinned out to the distance of 
ten or twelve inches, and gradually to a greater dis- 
tance. During the summer they must be kept 
clear from weeds, and, in dry weather, frequently 
watered^ as they require a good deal of moisture. 
In the middle of October, when the plants have at- 
tained nearly their full size, they should be prepared 
for blanching. For this purpose a dry day is to 
be chosen, when the plants are free from moisture. 
The leaves of each plant are carefully and lightly 
tied together with strong matting or small hay- 
bands, removing such as are at all damaged or de- 
cayed, keeping the whole upright, and the ribs of 
the leaves together. The plant is then bound closely 
round with twisted haybands, beginning at the 
root, and continuing to about two thirds of its 
height, the whole being covered so as to prevent 



CARROT. 53 

^Jie earth coming in contact with the ribs of the 

IL eaves. If the cardoons are to be used early and 

^^efore the frosts set in^ the plants may remain thus 

Ibanded without any earthing up, or with very little, 

«uid they will become sufficiently blanched for use ; 

^ut if there is any danger of their being exposed 

'tbo frost, then it is necessary that they should be 

earthed up in the same manner as celery, care being 

ttaken that this is done on a dry day, and the earth 

xiot raised higher than the haybands. 

When the plants are blanched a foot and a half 
or two feet in length, or more, they may be taken 
Tip, as wanted, throughout the winter. In severe 
frosty weather some dry fern or litter may be spread 
over the plants as a protection ; which will also 
render them more easy to be got at. 

12. CARROT. — Daucus. 

The word daucus signifies a sort of wild carrot, 
and its other botanical name, carotOy means a root 
having a fleshy substance under a rind. 

The carrot is a native of England, being found 
wild in many parts of the kingdom. The author 
has seen large quantities of it growing in some 
fields in Devonshire particularly. 

Miller tells us that he could not succeed in ob- 
taining good carrots from the seed of the wild sort, 
though it is alleged by others that, if sown in well 
manured ground, good roots can be produced the 
third year ; and, perhaps, it is from die improved 
cultivation of the wild sort that our present fine 
carrots are derived. 

B 3 



54? THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. i 

By later authors carrots are said to have been 
introduced into this country- by the Flemings, in 
the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and first sown about 
Sandwich, in Kent. The stock whence those 
imported carrots were produced, was most likely 
obtained from the Isle of Candia (formerly Crete), 
where the finest and most esteemed carrots were to 
be found. 

Dr. James, an eminent physician, truly says, 
that the carrot is one of the most considerable 
culinary roots, that it strengthens and nourishes 
the body, and is very beneficial for consumptive 
persons. 

Carrots are generally served to table with boiled 
meats ; .they make an excellent soup, and form an 
agreeable pudding. They are also an excellent 
agricultural root for feeding cattle, and are fre- 
quently cultivated for deer, which thrive amazingly 
on them. 

Sugar is found in this root, but in less quantities 
than in the parsnip or the beet-root. 

The following are the principal varieties cul- 
tivated for culinary purposes, and for supplying 
the kitchen regularly at all seasons of the year. 

1. Early Horn. — This sort is of Dutch origin, and 
is the forwardest in ripening, and the best adapted 
for forcing. It grows much shorter, and requires 
less depth of soil than the other varieties. 

2, Long Altringham (a town in Cheshire). — This 
is a very fine carrot, and in rich light ground will 
grow to a large edse. It is one of the best for a 
general cropy and for preserving throughout the 
winter. 



.HaMlka^ 



CARROT. 55 

3. Long Orange, or Sandwich (a town in Kent). 
— The carrots grow remarkably fine in that part of 
the country, an^ many scores of tons are annually 
sent from thence to the London markets. This, 
together with the next, are cultivated as ' the two 
leading sorts. 

4. Long Red Surrey is considered one of the best 
<5arrots, being of a good colour, size, and flavour. 
Large quantities of this variety are grown in great 
perfection in the midland parts of Surrey, where 
the land is a deep sandy loam, and very suitable 
for their growth. 

5. Long Studley is also a good sort, and is ex-* 
tehsively grown in many parts of the country. 

6. Long White is but little known at present in 
our markets, and seldom grown, excepting by those 
who are fond of French dishes, for which it is much 
used, and especially for soups. It is certainly a 
very delicate root, but is best adapted for summer 
and autumn use, as it does not keep so well through 
the winter as the common red carrot. 

Culture. — In the culture of this nutritious and 
useful vegetable a deep, light, rich, sandy soil 
should, if possible, be employed. The soil should 
Be weU manured the preceding year; for, if the 
manure is applied at the time the seed is sown, the 
roots are apt to be affected with the canker. If 
the ground is not of the quality above stated, it 
should be trenched to the depth of eighteen inches 
at least, and at the same time well broken ; for, if 
this is not well done, the roots are apt to spread 
m a lateral direction, and become branched. 

If young carrots are required early, the seed of 

£ 4 



56 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

the Early Horn variety should be sown on hot-beds 
in February, or on a warm south border early in 
March. The hot-beds should be made the end of 
January ; and after the rank steam has passed off> 
and the top of the bed has been levelled, lay on 
about ten inches of light rich mould, and sow the 
seed : then smooth it down with the back of the 
spade, and sift a little earth over the whdle about a 
quarter of an inch thick ; the glasses can then be 
put on, and air given occasionally, until the plants 
appear, when plenty of air must be given on every 
opportunity, otherwise the plants will be drawn up 
weakly and spoiled ; a slight sprinkling of water will 
occasionally be necessary, and if the plants come 
too thick they must be thinned out with the hand. 

The early sowing on the border will succeed 
those very quickly, especially if protected from the 
cold cutting winds and frosts by a covering of dry 
fern, straw, or any other light material. 

To procure young carrots throughout the summer 
and autumn, seed must be sown of the Early Horn 
kind about every* six weeks, from the end of Feb- 
ruary till the beginning of August ; the last sowing 
is made for plants to stand the winter, and afford 
young roots early in spring. * 

For the general and principal crop, the author 
has found the second or third week in March to be 
a good season, though he has known good crops 
produced from sowing at the end of April and be« 
ginning of May ; this, however, depends entirely 
on the weather. 

In sowing carrot seed a calm day should be 
chosen, as the seeds are very light; they should 



CARROT. 57 

• 

also "be rubbed between the hands, and mixed with 
some diy sand or wood ashes, to separate them as 
"much as possible. The common method of sowing 
them is upon beds three or four feet broad, and 
•afterwards raked in smoothly and evenly : the teeth 
.of the rake ought to be wider than are generally 
used, as the seed is apt to be drawn up in heaps. 
The author considers that sowing the seed in shal- 
low drills, nine or twelve inches apart, is a preferable 
way, as it admits of the hoe being made use of with 
greater facility in thinning, and cleansing them 
from weeds; and, in a given space of ground, a 
greater crop and finer roots can be produced than 
by sowing broadcast in beds. 

As soon as the plants are up, and can be well 
distinguished, a hoe about three or four inches 
broad should be used to thin and clear them from 
weeds. Thin from three to five inches' distance 
such as are designed for drawing young ; but the 
main crop, intended for large and good sized roots, 
must be thinned to six inches. The whole should be 
kept dear from weeds in their advancing young 
growth. Towards the end of October they will have 
attained their full growth, and in the beginning of 
November, as soon as the leaves begin to turn 
yellowy the roots can be taken up in a dry day, the 
tops being cut off within an inch or two of the 
crown, and can be packed among dry earth or sand 
in the store-house for winter use. They will keep 
well, pitted the same as potatoes. In either way, if 
frost be excluded, they will keep perfectly well until 
March or April of the following year. 



88 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

13. CAULIFLOWER. — Var.BRAssic A. 

The botanic term brassica is in accordance 
with the Linnaean system, as before observed ; but 
Miller insists that the cauliflower is specifically dis* 
tinct from the common cabbage, because, in the 
course of fifty years' experience, he could never find 
the least appearance of one approaching the other* 

This most delicate vegetable was first called cole^ 
florie and colieflorie, and is supposed to have been 
derived from caulis, a stalk, smd Jloreo, to flourish^ 
The French at present have no distinct name for this 
plant, but call it chou-Jleur, viz. cabbage flower* 
It was first brought to England, from the island of 
Cyprus, about the year 1694? ; and in the course of 
Jthe last century was so much improved in our 
kitchen gardens, by the skill and industry of the 
British gardener, that most parts of Europe are 
now supplied with English seed. 

There are two varieties of the cauliflower, the 
early and the late, which are alike in their growth 
and size, only that the early kind, as the name im- 
plies, com^s in about a week before the other, pro- 
vided the true sort has been obtained. There is, how- 
ever, no certainty of knowing this, unless by sowing 
the seed from the earliest sorts, as is the practice 
of the London kitchen gardeners. The early variety 
was grown for a number of years in the grounds 
called the Meat-house Gardens, at Millbank, near 
Chelsea, and was of a superior quality, and gen&* 
rallv the first at market. 

The late variety is supposed to have originated 
from a stock for many years cultivated on a piece 



CAULIPLOWEIU 59 

«of ground called the Jamaica Level, near Deptford, 
^nd which produced uncommonly fine heads, but 
^ater than those at Millbank. Both soils are nearly 
similar, being a deep rich loam, on a moist subsoil, 
smd continually enriched with dung. 

Both the varieties are of a delicate nature, being 
generally too tender to resist the cold of the winter 
season without the occasional aid of glasses or other 
means ; and the sight of many acres overspread with 
such glasses, in the vicinity of London, gives a 
-stranger a forcible idea of the riches and luxury of 
the capital. 

Culture. — The proper seasons for sowing the, 
seed are, for the early summer crop, between the 
18th and 24?th of August (the early date for th6 
northerly parts of the kingdom). The pls^nts which 
rise in the same season are to be pricked out, and 
preserved through the winter under hand-glasses, 
frames, or other coifveniences ; and, being planted 
out in spring, arrive at perfection the ensuing sum- 
mer, from May to July and August. For the late 
summer crop to succeed the above, the seed must 
• be sown in February, or early in March, the plants 
being set out in May, to come in for use in August 
and September : and, for the Michaelmas or autumn 
crop, the sowing should be performed about the 
middle of May, and the plants, being set out in 
July, come to perfection gradually in October, but 
are never so large, white, or perfectly headed, as the 
summer crops. 

For the purpose of raising cauliflowers in the 
greatest perfection, a bed of the richest light earth, 
in, a free exposure, is to be prepared at the proper 



60 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

period, by digging it well over neatly, one spade 
deep, and breaking the surface fine ; then sow the 
seed, and rake it in evenly and lightly ; or, before 
the seed is sown, gently beat and smooth the surface 
of the bed with the back of a spade ; sow the seed 
and sift over it about a quarter of an inch of light 
mould. 

When the weather is dry, gentle waterings In the 
evening are necessary, both before and after the 
plants appear ; and if very hot dry weather, it is 
advisable to shade the bed with mats, or some light 
covering, in the heat of the day, but by no means 
let the plants be drawn up weakly. Should they rise 
too thick, or in clusters, they must be thinned out, 
so as to leave them single at a small distance apart* 
All the culture necessary afterwards is occasional 
watering and weeding, until towards the latter end 
of September, when their leaves will be an inch or 
two broad : a quantity of the best plants should then 
be pricked out in three feet beds of rich earth, in 
rows three or four inches apart, rejecting all crooked 
and, as we gardeners term them, black-shanked 
plants. As soon as they are planted, a moderate 
watering should be given, which, when the weather 
continues dry, may be occasionally repeated. The 
plants must remain there till about the end of 
October or beginning of November, when prepara- 
tion must be made for transplanting them into their 
winter quarters, some being planted out under hand- 
glasses for the earliest crops, others into garden 
frames, to be occasionally protected by glasses till 
planted out in spring. 

The plants intended to be wintered in frames may 



CAULIFLOWER. 61 

ccasionally be pricked out at once from the seed- 
id into the frames to remain. 
For the plants to be cultivated under glasses, a 
^^roper bed of the richest mellow ground should be 
!]^rovided, in the warmest and most sheltered part 
^Df the garden, in a free exposure to the full sun. 
The front of a south border, should there be one of 
sufficient length to spare, will be the most eligible 
lor this purpose. If the soil is not considered of 
sufficient richness, it should be well manured with 
the best rotten dung, spread equally over the ground 
at least three or four inches thick, and trenched in 
a good spade deep, and buried equally. Then form 
the ground into beds three feet wide, with two 
alleys for the convenience of going in to raise the 
glasses and set them off and on. After the beds are 
properly levelled, a line should be marked out in 
the centre of the bed as a mark to place the hand* 
glasses^ which should be three feet apart. The 
plants are then put in, four straight and healthy ones 
being selected for each glass — they are planted at 
about four inches apart ; — a little water is after- 
wards given, and the glasses put on and kept close 
for a few days till the plants have taken root. This 
being observed, prop up the glasses about three 
inches high on the sunny side, to admit air ; and if 
in the course of a fortnight the weather is dry and 
favourable, the glasses may be taken quite off in 
the day-time, but must always be put on again at 
night. During the winter the glasses should be 
kept almost constantly over the plants, but propped 
up during mild weather, on the warmest side, for 
the admission of air. When cutting winds or 



62 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

frosty weather prevail^ they should be kept as dose 
down as possible ; and for their more certain pro* 
tection (especially in private and small gardens, 
where there is not a large quantity of glasses)^ on 
the approach of such severe weather as was expe- 
rienced in the last winter of J 838, and which de- 
stroyed nearly all the cauliflowers in the country, 
some dry litter or fern laid down as close as pos- 
sible about the lower part of each glass, and raised 
higher as occasion may require, would do much 
towards the effectual preservation of the plants. 

Any further attention the plants will require till 
spring consists principally in giving air at all si^h 
times as the weather will admit of the picking off 
the decayed leaves ; and a little lime and soot mixed, 
occasionally strewed, lightly upon the surface, under 
the glasses, will greatly protect the plants from the 
depredation of caterpillars and slugs, &c. 

With respect to the plants which remain in the 
frames, nothing more is necessary than to give 
them plenty of air in favourable weather ; to pro- 
tect them with additional coverings of garden mats 
when the frost is very severe, and to look them 
over occasionally, to pick off any decayed leaves, 
insects, &c. The author must caution the horticul- 
turist against allowing the plants to be drawn up, 
as by so doing he runs the hazard of losing the 
crop by the plants becoming button-headed, or pro- 
ducing very small heads, while in the frames. This 
arises in general from over-nursing ; therefore, the 
more hardy the plants are brought up the better. 

When there is a want of frames, cauliflowers may 
be protected by planting them in three or four foot- 



CAULIFLOWER. 63 

l)ed8, and covering them with mats ; or by planting 
tliem close under a south wall, and occasionally co^ 
Taring them with some dry litter in hard weather. 

Previously to planting out the cauliflowers 
wintered in frames, the plants under the hand- 
glasses should be looked over, and if there is a de-> 
ficiency of less than two, occasioned either by their 
prematurely running to flower or other causes^ this 
deficiency should be made up with the strongest 
and best plants in the frames, which if carefully 
raised with the point of a trowel, to preserve the 
fibres of the roots, will receive but little check in 
their removal, and quickly succeed the more per- 
manent plants. 

In the spring cultuire of the plants under hand-> 
glasses, they must be thinned out, and one or two 
stout plants left to each glass ; the mould should be 
stirred up, and a little drawn up round their stems^ 
and as the plants advance in growth, the earth 
should be formed into a sort of basin under each 
glass, the better to contain the necessary waterings 
both before and after the glasses are entirely re- 
moved. In proportion to the advanced growth of 
the plants, the benefit of the full air in mild days, 
' and that of warm showers, by occasionally setting 
the glasses wholly ofl*, must not be omitted, always 
taking care to defend them during the night, and in 
cold rains or boisterous weather. When the weather 
becomes warm, and the plants are grown too large 
for the glasses, they should then, by degrees, be 
fully exposed night and day, so that by the latter 
end of April the glasses may altogether be discon- 
'tinued. At this period, if the weather is hot and 



M THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

drjTy moderate waterings will be of utility III pnH 
moting the progress of the plants to maturitj. 
Towards the latter end of May some of the for* 
wardest plants will begin to show flower, at which 
time they should be examined daily ; and whenever 
a flower appears to be advanced in growth, tarn 
down some of the inward leaves over the head, to 
screen it from the san's rays and from rain, in order 
to preserve it more white and close, as the excellence 
of the cauliflower consists not only in size, but in 
the whiteness, and compact growth of the head. 

In gathering or cutting cauliflowers, the flower 
head should mostly be cut off with some inches of 
the stalk, together with most of the surronnding 
leaves, which should be trimmed down nearly equal 
to the circumference of the head, especially when 
for present use ; but those required to be kept a few 
days, or intended for market, should have the foil 
leaves to continue, and be trimmed off as they are 
wanted. As the stalks of these plants never pro- 
duce sprouts, as in those of the cabbage kind, they 
should be moved as soon as the head is cut. In 
regard to the plants which were wintered in the 
frames, as the spring approaches they should be 
inured by degrees to the fuU air, by taking the ' 
glasses off entirely every day, and gradually leav* 
ing them fully exposed at night, to harden them for 
their removal into the places where they are to re- 
nmin. From the middle of March till about the 
tome time in April is the best time for transplant- 
ing all the plants wintered in frames or elsewhere, 
as well as the superfluous plants taken from under 
the hand-glasses. For this purpose an open spot 



CAULIFLOWER. 65 

of the richest ground should be selected, which 
liariiig been well manured, dug over, and levelled, 
will be ready to receive the plants. A line should 
be put down, and the plants planted at the distance 
of two and a half feet apart every way, and watered 
at the same time ; and occasionally afterwards, in hot 
and dry weather, till they arrive at maturity. They 
require but little attention afterwards. Hoeing 
and keeping the ground clear of weeds and draw- 
ing a little earth round the stems is all that will be 
necessary to be done, till the plants arrive at per- 
fection, which tney will do in succession, until, the 
middle of August, when they are succeeded by the 
late summer crop. 

For the culture of the late summer crop, it is 

nec^sary to raise a proper supply of plants in spring, 

by sowing the seed about the end of Febr4iary, or 

beginning of March, on a slight hot-bed made for 

a one light frame, in the same way as advised for 

the August sowing. The plants will rise in a few 

days, at which time the air must be freely admitted ; 

and in dry weather some light waterings must be 

given* When the plants have leaves about an 

inch broad, prick them out upon another moderate 

hoi-bed, which will forward them considerably. 

In the course of a month or six weeks, the plants, 

after being properly hardened, will be of sufficient 

strength and size for finally transplanting into the 

open ground, exactly the same as before mentioned 

for the main summer crop ; they need not, however^ 

be planted quite so far apart either way. Their 

necessary after-culture is*also the same. 

' For the autumnal, or, as it is called, the Michael- 



66 . THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

mas crop, which for many years the author grew 
remarkably iine, the seed of the late sort of cauli- 
flower (if it can be had)» should be sown on a light 
rich spot of ground, on or about the 24th of May, 
attention being paid to shade and moisture, which 
at this season of the year are very necessary. When 
the plants are sufficiently up, they should be thinned 
to the distance of an inch apart, and in a fortnight 
afterwards to full three inches : they are thus to re- 
main kept clear of weeds, and watered occasionally, 
until they are finally planted out, which, on an 
average, will be about the third week in July, in 
the same manner as directed for the former crops. 
They begin to show heads towards the end of 
October, and continue a great part of December, 
or sometimes, in mild weather, till after Christmas. 
Such late flowers as have not perfected their heads 
may, on the approach of frost or other bad weather, 
be taken up and housed. The cauliflower is so 
great a favourite with most persons, that many 
ways have been devised for preserving as long as 
possible such as have begun to flower. For this pur- 
pose the author has practised the following method 
with great success. On the appearance of frosty 
weather, he had the plants taken carefully up in a 
dry day, with as much earth as would adhere to their 
roots, and carried into any sort of dry shed, pre- 
viously prepared on the floor or ground with eight or 
ten inches thick of moist sand or light earth : they 
were then planted so as nearly to touch each other, 
and regulated according to their difierent growth. In 
this situatiop they remained, and most of them pro- 
duct tolerably fine heads before and after Christ- 



^. 



CELERY, 67 

ma& Nothing more was necessary than to look 
them over occasionally, and pick out the decayed 
leaves, &c. 

When a conveniency of this sort can be procured, 
any skilfdl gardener will be enabled to supply a 
family with this delicious vegetable, after all the 
plants in the open ground are destroyed ; he may 
thus send the cauliflowers to table as a dainty dish, 
and will no doubt be rewarded by the commend- 
ations of his employers. 

14- CELERY. — Apium Graveolens. 

The Latin term apium is said to be derived from 
the supposed partiality of the bee (apis) to this 
plant; but this origin of the word is doubtlessly 
without foundation. 

The celery is a native of Europe, and is found 
in ditches and marshy ground, especially near the 
sea-coast, in various parts of England. In its wild 
state it is known by the name of smallage, and has 
a rank, .coarse taste, and disagreeable perfume: 
hence the effects of cultivation, in producing from 
it the mild, sweet stalk of celery, are not a little 
remarkable. 

The cultivated celery has come into much repute 

^vithin these forty years. The leaf-stalks, when 

blanched, are used raw as a salad; they are also 

«tewed, and often used to flavour soups. The white 

stalks of celery are stewed and sent to table in 

"white sauce. An agreeable conserve can also be 

made of the blanched stalky of celery. The root 

t)nly of celeriac is used. It is said to be excellent 

in soups, in which, whether white or brown, slices 

F 2 



68 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

of it are used as ingredients, and readily impart 
their flavour. The seed of the celery contains a, 
great portion of its aromatic scent and taste, and 
when neither the blanched nor the green leaves can 
be had, a small quantity of the seed forms an ex- 
cellent substitute for flavouring soups, &c. 

The following are the principal sorts cultivated 
in our gardens* 

1. Dwarf Italian. The stalks of this sort are 
hollow. It has long been an inhabitant of the English 
garden, but is now partly superseded by the two 
following varieties, excepting for an early crop. 

2. Red Solid Stalked, or Manchester, by which 
name it is sometimes called, from its being cultivated 
in the vicinity of that town in the greatest per* 
fection. This sort occasionally, in rich ground, 
grows to an immense size, soYne being known to 
weigh from six to eight pounds after being washed 
or cleansed. It is of a very hardy nature and will 
admit of being blanched, if required, to the height 
of four feet. It is more hardy, but not considered 
quite so delicate as the following. 

3. White Solid Stalked is of the same quality as 
the red, but is more generally preferred on account 
of the colour ; there is, however, little real diflerence 
between them, excepting in that particular. The 
finest celery the author ever saw, was in the Royal 
gardens at Kensington, while on a visit to that 
worthy man and excellent gardener, Mr. Forsyth, 
who called the author's attention to a most superb 
sample of celery, blanched to near four feet in 
height, of a clear white, with solid, crisp, and 
well-flavoured stalks. 



CELERY. 69 

4. Turnip-rooted or Celeriac, a name by which it 
is known on the Continent, b there in high estima- 
tion for soups ; and from the information given to 
the author by an English cook, it imparts a more 
agreeable flavour to the soup than the upright. I.t 
has, besides, another good quality, that after being 
well-boiled, it forms a principal ingredient in the 
salad mentioned under the name of beet-root. 

Ctdture, — When early celery is required, which 
is generally the case in most families, the seed of the 
two first varieties (but little of the former, as from 
being sown so early, it is apt to run,) should be sown 
on a slight hot-bed of well-prepared dung, about 
dghteen inches thick, on which six or eight inches of 
light rich soil should be laid, and covered either with 
a frame or hand-glass. After the heat has risen per-< 
fectly, level the surface, and sow the seed the first 
Week in March, but not so immoderately thick as 
is generally practised ; over which sift a very thin 
covering of light mould, and give the whole a slight 
watering from a fine rose pot, to cause the seed to 
germinate the sooner. When this is done put on 
the glasses, and as soon as the plants appear, air 
should be Emitted according to the state of the 
weather. When the young plants have grown two 
or three inches high, a few may be planted in an- 
other frame, at about three inches apart^ to forward 
their growth ; and the remainder, in a week or ten 
days' time, should be planted out in a well-prepared 
bed, three or four feet wide, to be hooped over, and 
occasionally covered with mats in ungenial weather. 
In about a month, or six weeks, those planted in 
a frame, supposing they are properly hardened, 

F 3 



70 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

will be of sufficient strength to plant out in trenched 
for blanching. For early use the author planted a 
row or two of the Italian sort in deep drills, drawn 
with a drill-hoe at two feet apart, when they 
are sufficiently blanched in a few weeks for use. 
This, however, is mentioned merely as an ex- 
periment. The regular way is to select a levdl 
and rich piece of ground : dig some trenches a foot 
wide, eight or ten inches deep, and three feet from 
each other ; if convenient, from north to south is 
preferable to any other aspect : let the earth be re* 
gularly thrown out on each side of the trench and 
sloped off. When one trench is opened, five or six 
inches of well-consumed dung should be worisLed in 
full half a spade deep, and so continued until the re- 
quisite number of trenches are finished. The plants 
which were pricked out in the beds or frames, may 
now be taken up and prepared for planting, whidi 
is done by cutting off the extremity of the roots 
(which in planting should have a gentle twist), 
shortening their tops or leaves, but not so low as to 
injure the young centre leaves, and clearing the 
neck of the plant from suckers ; this done, they will 
be in order for planting in the trenches at the dis- 
tance of four or five inches apart, after which, give 
the whole a good soaking of water. Little after cul- 
ture is required, except using a small hoe at times 
to stir the earth round the plants, until they are of 
sufficient growth for the first earthing ; that is, when 
the plants are about a foot high. When they are of 
that height, let the earth be pared down on each side 
of the trench, care being taken not to let it get into 
t|ie hearts of the plants ; then with one hand gather 



CELERY. 71 

up the leaves, and with the other draw the loose earth 
against the plants, so as to keep them compact and 
upright : when the lines are thus finished, a more 
considerable quantity of earth may be pared in against 
the plants. In about three weeks, as the plants pro- 
ceed in growth, they will require another earthing 
up, and will soon afterwards be found sufficiently 
blanched for use. The longer the plants remain, 
the more earthing up they require. In taking up 
the plants for use, it is best to begin at one end of 
a row, and dig clean down to the roots, (which then 
loosen with the spade,) that they may be drawn up 
entire without breaking the stalks. 

The next successive crop to be attended to, ii^ 
what is generally called the principal. The seed of 
the red and white solid stalked varieties is to be 
sown on a warm spot of rich mellow ground, the 
first week in April, and raked in lightly and regu« 
larly ; a little shelter may sometimes be necessary 
at first, should the weather become very wet or 
frosty. 

When the plants are two, three, or four inches 
high, thin the seed-bed^ and prick out a quantity in 
beds three or four inches apart, as advised for the 
early sowing; water them; and if the weather is 
irarm, shade them for a few days, until they have 
ttruck root. They remain in the bed for four or five 
%eek8, till they are from six to ten inches high, and 
\mve acquired a stocky growth. They are then 
Inally transplanted into the trenches for blanching, 
exactly similar to the early crop. If large celery 
a vanted, they have only to be planted a little 
irider apart in the lines. As the plants advance in 

F 4 



72t THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

growth, lei them bie earthed up on e&ch side fihnljr 
and evenly, and in a sloping direction from the 
surface to nearly the top of the leaves. In that 
state the celery will remain sound and good for a 
lengpth of time, and on the approach of frosty 
weather, if likely to be lasting and severe, a quan^ 
tity of dry litter should be spread over the plants^ 
which will not only protect the celery, but enable it 
to be readily taken up as wanted for use. 

When the celery is full grown and the blanching 
completed, it soon begins to decay : hence very fine 
looking celery is often found to be rotten at the 
base of the leaf-stalks. 

From the last sowing in April, the author has 
found that such plants as were left in the seed-bed^ 
if taken up in September and planted in deep drills^ 
at two feet apart, will, if occasionally earthed up» 
form a good substitute when the principal crop ia 
used, or destroyed by the weather. 

The different earthings up of celery should al- 
ways, if possible, be performed when the plants are 
dry ; since, where this is not attended to^ they are 
apt to become spotted and cankery. 

The celeriac is but partially cultivated in thift 
country, and not nearly so much as it deserves. It 
is propagated by seeds, sown in a light rich spot' 
the third week in March. When the plants are two 
or three inches high, they should be thinned out to 
three or four inches apart ; and when five or six 
inches high, transplanted into deep drills or shallow" 
trenches, at six or eight inches distance in the lines^ 
and watered according to the weather (the whole or 
this species being partial to moisture). As the plants- 



CHERVIL. yS 

advance in growth, observe the progress of thd 
roots ; and if they have acquired a tolerable size, 
draw some earth up on each side of the row, three 
or four inches high, which will render them white 
and tender, and particularly so when it happens to 
he a moist season. In about six weeks after being 
earthed up, they will be in good order for use, and 
will continue so until the inside is observed to get 
hollow or unsound. 

15. CHERVIL, — Chjerophtllum. 

The botanic name of this plant is derived from 
its warm, mild, aromatic qualities. It is a native of 
the Levant and various parts of Europe, and b 
sometimes found in its native state in this country. 
The chervil when young somewhat resembles pars- 
ley ; but as it runs to seed, it bears more the appear- 
ance of hemlock. 

The tender leaves are used in soups and salads^ 
It is much cultivated by the French and Dutch, 
vrho are so fond of it, that hardly a soup or salad is 
made without chervil forming part of the composi- 
tion ; and it is often found by many to be a more 
agreeable and mild addition to seasonings than the 
parsley, so universally used by the English cooks. 
«01d master Gerard, who has been styled << the 
prince of herbalists," says in his HerbcU (written 
200 years ago), that chervil should be eaten with oil 
and vinegar, being first boiled, which is very good 
for old people that are dull and without courage : it 
Tejoiceth and comforteth the heart, .and increaseth 
thdr strength. Gerard's garden was in that part of 



74 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Holborn in London, now called Hatton Garden ; it 
was rather extensive, and is mentioned only to show 
the contrast between that time and the present. 

There are two varieties of the chervil, the plain 
and the curled; they are both of equal goodness^ 
but the latter is principally cultivated, as it likewise 
makes a handsome garnish. 

Culture. — The plant is annual, and the seed should 
be sown to keep up a succession, from the beginning 
of March till June^ at the intervals of about a month, 
as the younger it is the higher flavour it imparts. 

The seed may be sown in shallow drills, from six 
to nine inches apart, and covered over lightly with 
the mould ; it can also be sown broad-cast and raked 
in lightly and evenly. If the plants rise thick, a 
slight thinning will be necessary ; and in dry weather 
a little water will be useful. 

To have chervil for use throughout the winter, it 
should be sown towards the end of August in a three 
or four foot bed, which can be hooped over, and 
the plants protected with mats in frosty weather. 
The plants remain where sown, and are never trans- 
planted. They are proper for gathering when the 
leaves are three or four inches in growth, and must 
be cut off close ; they will shoot up again, and may 
be gathered in succession, though the plants of the 
spring and summer sowing soon spindle up into seed 
stalks, ceasing to produce young leaves, which are 
the useful parts. 



CHivx. 75 



16- CHIVE. — Allium. 

The name of allium is given to this plant from 
'•he character of the flower, which corresponds with 
^any others comprised under that head, as the 
leek, garlic, common onion, &c. The specific name 
of chive is A» SchcBnoprasum^ from its supposed 
Vegetable qualities, which partake of the flavour 
both of the onion and leek. It is a native of 
Britain, and has been found sometimes, though 
rarely, in meadows and pastures, near Fast-castle 
on the borders of Berwickshire, in Argyleshire, in 
Westmoreland, and near Kirby Moor-side, York- 
shire. It has been thought by some persons to be 
a wild onion ; but we have no instance of its nature 
being changed by cultivation. 

The principal use of chives is for soups and 
spring salads. The leaves, which are like short 
rushes, are cut off close to the surface and em- 
ployed as a salad ingredient ; and the whole of the 
plant is occasionally made use of as a substitute 
for young onions. They are also used as a season- 
ing for omelets, soups, &c. being esteemed milder 
than onions or scallions. 

The chive is a hardy perennial plant, and being' 
once planted, will continue for many years, without 
suffering from the most extreme cold of the winter. 
It may be planted in any common soil and situ- 
ation, and is easily propagated by dividing the 
roots in the spring or autumn, and planting them 
a few inches distance from each other, when they 
will rapidly increase into large bunches. A bed 



76 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

will last three or four years, after which period it 
should be renewed by dividing the roots. 

17. CORN SALAD. — Valerianella. 

The botanic name of this plant is derived fro; 
the Latin word vcdeoy to be powerful or efficacious,^ 
in allusion to the many virtues of the plant. It i 
a native of this country and other parts of Europe 
In France and Italy it is dressed like spinage ; and-H^ 
we have lately, from the latter country, had 
superior variety introduced, the leaves being of 
thicker consbtence, and having a milder flavour 
and a more robust growth than our native kinds." 
This plant has also the name of lamb's lettuce, 
from being formerly in much repute as an early- 
green feed for lambs. At present its principal use 
is for spring salads, to which the improved sort 
gives an agreeable taste and flavour. 

Culture. — The com salad is annual; the seed 
should be sown as soon as it is ripe, early in the 
month of August, otherwise it often remains a year 
in the ground before it vegetates. 

The seed should be sown on a warm spot, either 
in shallow drills six inches apart^ or on a bed broad- 
cast ; when the plants are well up, they should be 
thinned out to the distance of three or four inches 
from each other. When wanted for use, it is better 
to pick the leaves than to cut them. 



CRESS. 7T 



18. CRESS. — Lepidium. 

This vegetable takes its name from its warm spicy 
i^ature. It has the common specific name of scUivumy 
^hich is given to many varieties of vegetables^ from 
heir being cultivated as garden herbs. ' 

The native place of the garden cress is unknown^ 
lut it has more or less been cultivated in this country 
or the last three centuries. 

There are three varieties at present in cultiva« 
ion ; — 

1. Curled-leaved, which besides being used as 
mall salading, like mustard, is employed as a beau- 
iful gambh. 

2. Plain-leaved, is most commonly cultivated, oa 
iccouot of the difficulty of procuring the seed of 
he former genuine ; it has also the same flavour, 
>at is not so handsome in appearance. 

3* Golden cress, which much resembles the curled» 
mt is rather more slender in growth, and very dwarf. 
t has a mild and delicate flavour, and affords a 
>leasant addition to our stock of small herbs. 

All the sorts are equally good, and, together with 
liu^tard, form the principal ingredients in wintei: 
md spring salads, and with some families all the 
rear round. 

Culture. — This sort of herb should always be 
cultivated so as to grow as rapidly as possible, 
Deing cut while perfectly young and in a crisp state. 
[t is raised by sowing the seed as wanted for use, 
at difierent reasons of the year, where ^ constant 
succession is required ; and to have the crops de}i- 



78 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

cately young, once a week or fortnight will not be 
found too often. The sowings in the open ground 
commence about the second or third week in March, 
according to the mildness of the weather. Prepare 
a piece of rich well-dug ground, by raking the 
surface very fine ; sow the seed in small flat shallow 
drills or very thickly broad-cast ; earth over very 
lightly, and but just enough to cover the seed. In 
warm dry weather give occasional waterings. In 
the early spring and autumn crops, if the seed \i 
sown thickly on a small square piece of groimd, 
€Uid covered with a hand-glass, it will forward the^ 
crop considerably. The late autunm and winter^ 
crops will require a slight bottom heat under glass p 
the soil for that purpose should be light and mellow^ 
such as old tan or vegetable mould, the seed to b^ 
sown in shallow drills and covered very slightly. 

Where there is a pinery or fruiting house in 
work, smaU saladiiig of any description can be sowm 
in shallow boxes filled with the light vegetable 
mould, whereby it can be had in the severest season 
with little or no trouble. 

Double the quantity of cress should be sown Up 
that of mustard, as it is not of so rapid and large 
a growth ; and to keep up a proper succession, two 
sowings of mustard will be necessary to one of cress* 

19. CUCUMBER. — CucuMis. 

The meaning of the word from which cucumber 
is derived, is not well defined in the English Ian-* 
guage. Various reasons have been assigned for it3 
origin ; but all more remarkable for ingenuity than 



CUCUMBER. 79 

|ut)bability. There are arranged under the head 
of cucumisy according to the Linnaean system, the 
tucumis meloy the common melon, e. fiexuosusy ser- 
pent melon, and many others of the same species ; 
c scOivus is the specific name by which the cu- 
cumber is distinguished. 

The cucumber is of very great antiquity, and a 
iiatiye of the East Indies and the warmest parts of 
Asia and America ; whence its tenderness may be 
derived : though this is not so great as in some 
other exotics from the same climates. It was intro- 
duced into England about the year 1573. 

Few or none of our culinary vegetables have less 
natritious qualities than the cucumber, it being of 
a cold watery nature, and at times not easy of 
digestion ; hence it should be used with caution by 
persons of a weak and delicate constitution. When 
dressed with oil, vinegar, and pepper, it is certainly 
n whet to the appetite, but of no sort of nourish- 
ment to the body. If at all wholesome, it is when 
stewed in rich gravies, which counteract its ill 
effects, and render it a dainty dish. 

In winter, when the snow is deep on the ground, 
a cucumber, either in its green or stewed state, 
bighly embellishes the table of the higher and more 
wealthy classes, who grudge not the expense ; and 
cucumbers produced fine at that season of the year, 
add greatly to the gardener's reputation. When the 
rage for very long and uncouth-looking cucumbers 
abates, much unnecessary care, labour^ and anxiety 
will be saved to the gardener. 

There are many sorts of cucumbers in cultiva- 
tion. The author has selected the foUowing as being 



so THE YEGBTABLB CULTIVATOR. 

difwimilar and most worthy of cultivation, either in 
forcing frames or in the open air : and he will b^in 
with the variety which laid the foundation of the 
fine encumbers exhibited in this country during the 
last sixty years. 

1. The Southgate, so called from a village near 
London, where this fruit was raised in the greatest 
perfection as to moderate length, symmetry of 
growth, and colour ; and being of a more tender 
nature than the conmion long prickly, is principally 
recommended for early frame-work, as are all the 
sorts which have originated from this stock, for 
which there are numerous claimants, each SQrt 
being con»dered by its possessor as the best. Hence 
the only advice the author can give to the young 
horticulturist, to procure a really good cucumber, 
is to apply to some respectable seedsman or brother 
gardener for the seed of their best sort 

2. Long Green Prickly. This is a hardier sort 
than the Southgate, but not so early ; it is the most 
proper for hand-glasses and for various culinary 
purposes. It commonly grows from seven to ten 
inches long, and has a dairk-green skin, oovered 
with small prickles. 

3. Short Green Prickly, is one of the hardiest 
and earliest sorts, and the best for the open ground. 
It is also the most prolific in producing the small 
cucumbers for pickling. The village of Sandy, ia 
Bedfordshire, has long been famous for producing 
cucumbers in the open air ; and, in the season, whole 
waggon loads are sent weekly to the London markets, 
not only for pickling, but in a more mature state 
for all culinary purposes. 



CUCUMBER. 81 

4f. Long. Smooth Green Turkey, grows to a con- 
siderable length and thickness, is very fleshy, and 
proper for mangoes and pickling when very young. 
It is not a sort much cultivated for very early crops. 

5. Long White Turkey differs from the above 
in having a number of spines scattered over the. 
surface of the fruit The stalks and leaves grow to a 
larger size, and by some it is considered less watery, 
and of a better quality. 

6* Long White Spine, a delicate cucumber, ge- 
nerally grows from eight to ten inches long; the 
fruit is white with small black prickles, and not so 
watery, and with fewer seeds than most others of 
the green variety. It is preferred by some families 
for the table, but is an indifferent bearer. The au- 
thor has to remark, by way of caution, that where 
the white varieties are propagated, they should be 
kept totally distinct from the green, provided the 
seed is saved from either colour, otherwise they will 
qertainly degenerate ; and no seed should be saved, 
but from such plants as are in a healthy state, with 
fruit perfect in growth and colour. 

7. The Prize-fighter, The author cannot well 
define the reason of this appellation: perhaps it 
arose from its obtaining the prize so often at various 
cucumber and horticultural shows. This sort is of 
late introduction, and is in every respect a good 
0ne. It requires the assistance of artificial heat 
to bring the fruit to perfection, as it grows to 
a large size, generally from twelve to twenty inches 
long, or more. It is firm and well-fiavoured. 

Culture.-'^ In the raising and producing of this. 
fruit much care and attention are necessary, as well 

o 



82 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

as a considerable degree of skill in the r^ulation, 
management, and application of the heat, which is 
required to bring them to maturity in the best and 
most perfect manner. 

There being so little to be said of raising the 
cucumber in the natural way, the author has re- 
versed the order in this instance, and proceeds with 
the culture by artificial means, which being pre- 
mised, he has to observe that no plant in the culinaiy 
line of vegetables has given the gardener more 
anxiety than the one now treated of, during the 
most changeable, dreary, and severe part of the 
year. However, much of that care and anxiety has 
been lessened within these last forty years by 
M*Phail*s pits, which have been glanced at in the 
early part of the worL That excellent invention 
has certainly rendered the forcing of this v^etable 
more simple, and reduced it to a more regular and 
certain system ; so that at this time few gentlemen's 
gardens, and few of the principal market-gardens 
in the vicinity of London and various other large 
towns, are without them. 

As it is not convenient for every one who wishes 
to have early cucumbers to erect a permanent hot- 
bed, the culture on dung hot-beds will be first 
noticed. 

In raising and cultivating the cucumber in this 
way, the apparatus and materials principally neces- 
sary in carrying it to any considerable extent, are 
a sufficient number of frames or pits of different 
sizes, with glass lights for covering them ; and it 
is usual when this culture is much attended to, 
and practised in the most perfect manner, to have 



CUCUMBER. 83 

a one-light frame for the seed-bed, a two-light 
one for pricking out the young plants and nursing 
them in, and two or more two-light frames for their 
fruiting in ; but they may be cultivated very well> 
on a small scale, with one or two small frames, or 
proper pits. 

What has been said oh the preparation of the 
dung under the head of asparagus, holds good in 
respect of the cucumber, but more so from the 
very tender nature of the plant, and the untoward 
season (December and January) in which the cu- 
cumber seed is generally sown. This is the most 
perplexing and difficult operation of the season, 
and, if well got over, with strong and healthy 
plants, the cultivator may look forward with every 
probability of success ; at least the author has found 
it to be the case in very many instances, during a 
practice of seventy years. 

For the seed-bed (an essential matter) in either 
of the months above mentioned, sufficient fresh 
horse-dung, say three or four good cart-loads, should 
be procured, to make up a strong hot-bed for a one 
light frame or box, as the gardeners call it ; which, 
if lai^e enough, will be sufficient to produce plants 
for six or nine-lights. The dung b^ing in readiness, 
it should be laid in a heap for five or six days, and, 
in the interim, turned over two or three times. 
Should heavy rain or snow fidl at the time, some 
sort of temporary covering with mats, fern, or such 
like will be necessary, to protect it from being too 
much saturated with moisture, which brings on a 
fiery heat at first, but slackens too soon afterwards. 
Care^ however^ should always be taken, that the 

o 2 



S4f THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

reduction of the dung is not carried too far before 
making up the bed ; as where that is the case, too 
little heat will afterwards be produced, and there 
will be a want of regularity in its supply. 

In the course of a week, and as soon as the dung 
is observed to be in proper order, the bed may be 
made up to full three feet and a half in height, and 
six or ten inches wider than the frame, the whole 
being beaten down regularly wiUi the fork, but not 
trodden^ as advised by some. When finished, the 
frame and lights must then be put on and kept 
close for a day or two, to draw up the heat, which 
will soon be accomplished with a large body of 
steam : air should then be admitted night and day, 
by tilting up the light two or three inches at the 
back, for the steam to evaporate, which it generally 
does in four or five days, and sometimes in less^ 
During that time, if the dung within the frame is 
slightly stirred up with a hand fork every other 
day, and a moderate watering given each time, it 
will bring the bed into a sweet and competent state 
for earthing: (these waterings are most essentia], 
and are of modern invention.) The author's old 
acquaintance, Abercrombie, says nothing of them 
in his early work, Every Man his oum Gardener^ 
which, almost at first sight, made the author averse 
from every other pursuit but that of a " gardener." 

When the bed is found to be in a proper state 
for earthing, the frame should be taken off, and the 
surface stirred up about a foot in depth, when, 
after being regularly beat down and levelled, the 
frame must be again put on, and a quantity of the 
richest mould, more dry than moist — suppose pue 



CUCUMBER. 85 

part light rich loam and three of vegetable earth — > 
should be put on the bed full ten inches in depths 
as much as yviH also be wanted fpr pits. In a day 
or two the earth will be sufficiently warm for sowing 
the seed, either in pots or pans, which may be 
plunged to half their depth. The quantity of plants 
wanted is easily calculated, as each three-light 
frame will require ten or a dozen^ if not more; 
and, at all events^ let seed enough be sown, not 
only for certain wants^ but to make good any 
contingencies which frequently happen at this 
season of the year. Should the weather prove 
severe at the time this work is going forward, a 
good lining of dry straw or litter must be laid 
round the bed to keep in the heat, and prevent the 
sudden chill, to which dung hot-beds are so liable 
at this season of the year, as the writer^ as well as 
his brother gardeners, can abundantly testify. The 
seed soon vegetates, and in two or three days 
grows up into strong plants, at which time care 
should be taken every day to admit fresh air, par- 
ticularly if a heavy steam has arisen in the bed ; 
and this should be let off by tilting the light more 
or less, according to the weather ; a very little will 
at most times do. A single mat covering also in 
the evening will be necessary; but it must be taken 
off about sunrise in the morning, to give the young 
plants all possible benefit of light and sun, which 
are most essential to their successful growth. It 
will be also requisite at times to examine the bot- 
toms of the pots that are plunged ; and if found too 
hot, or if there is the least likelihood of the earth 
burning (a fatal disease)^ which is known by the 

o 3 



86 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

soil turning white, the pots must be drawn up : if 
the burning has gone to any extent, do not let the 
least particle mix with the mould intended for pot- 
ting. Should the seedlings seem dry, a little water 
will be necessary; and should the weather be severe 
and stormy, a mat or, thin canvas should be put. 
before the space left for the steam to pass off (if it 
be only half an inch), to break the direct entrance 
of the air, which sometimes proves fatal, as few ex- 
otics are more susceptible of cold than the cu- 
cumber. 

In the course of four or five days the seedlings^ 
if all has gone well, will be of sufficient growth for 
transplanting into pots. During that time dung 
should be got ready for making the ridge, as it will 
take nearly three weeks before it is in proper order 
to receive the plants^ which by this time are of 
sufficient growth to pot oif, but either sooner or 
later, according as their seed-lobes are fully ex- 
panded. For that purpose small pots (generally 
called sixties) which the author recommends for an 
early season, should be prepared ; first, with cover- 
ing the hole at the bottom with a little half-con- 
sumed dung, which draws the roots considerably, 
and then filling them with earth halfway up, rather 
hollowed in the middle, in which put two plants, 
the roots towards the centre, and the upper part 
bending towards the edge of the pot ; afterwards 
cover them with an inch or so of mould : the pots 
should then be plunged in the bed, and each have 
a little soft-water out of a bottle, which must be 
put in the frame two or three days before, for the 
purpose of raising the temperature to a proper de* 



CUCUMBER. 87 

gree. The light should then be closed down, and 
if the sun happens to shine about mid-day, a very 
slight covering of hay will be necessary for an hour 
or two ; and unless there is much steam in the bed, 
the light may be kept close till the mornings and if 
covered (which most likely the season will require), 
the covering must be taken off early ; and in exa- 
mining the bed, if much steam has risen, it should 
be let out as before noticed. 

About this time the heat of the bed should be 
examined, and if it be diminished, which is readily 
discovered by plunging into it a thermometer (an 
instrument the author never of late used in frame- 
W9rk, as he trusted to experience), to a few degrees 
below 70 of Fahrenheit, a fresh lining of well-pre- 
pired hot dung must be laid against the back and 
front sides, about eighteen inches thick ; care being 
tsken that none of the outward steam gets inside 
tie frame. In looking over the plants, and observ- 
ing them to be dry, a little water should be given 
towards the middle of the day,; and at the same 
time, if roots are found to issue from the stems 
or otherwise, nearly a full earthing may be given to 
ite plants in the pots, and a full plunging in the 
bed, the other two sides of which, if not of a full 
sufficient heat, must be lined. This will most likely 
bring the plants on until they are taken out for 
their final planting. The author always gave the 
preference to his first seed-bed, provided the in- 
ternal warmth could be kept to its proper height ; 
otherwise a new bed must be prepared, similar to 
the one above mentioned. 

As soon as it appears that the plants have clearly 

o 4 



88 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

formed two joints, the leading bud should be pinched 
off carefully with the finger and thumb. In a day 
or two after that operation, they will begin to break 
into runners ; and in the course of eight or ten days, 
if regularly attended to, they will be of sufficient 
growth to plant out finally in frames. The prepar- 
ation of the dung for the aforesaid purpose having 
been mentioned, it may be supposed by this time 
to be in a proper state to make up the bed or ridgc^ 
which should be the same height as advised for the 
seed-bed, and a few inches wider than the fraxnim 
In the making of this bed, attention should be pail 
to the regular working of the whole : as the bed is 
carried on, it should be beaten down regularly wiih 
the fork; and, as before observed, not trodden, whidi 
often does more harm than good. As soon as it is 
finished, and the short dung thrown up in tie 
middle, the frame must be set on with the lights, anl 
treated in every way similar to what is advised far 
the seed-bed, particularly in shoving up the sun 
face, watering, and giving vent to the steam, &c* 
which a ridge hot-bed requires for nearly a fort- 
night before it is in proper order to receive the 
plants. This is observed and may be known by the 
smell of the steam arising from the bed, whether 
moderate or fiery. A trial should likewise be made 
of the heat contained in the body of the bed. 
This is done by thrusting what are called watch« 
sticks down on three sides to the centre of the bed, 
and after remaining about half an hour, they will 
indicate the heat, which being moderate, the surface 
of the bed may be levelled, and the earth (such as 
before mentioned) put into the frame, either in 



CUCUMBER. 89 

liilloeks or in a ridge ; if for the former, a sufficient 
quantity should be put into the centre of each 
light, so as to support the plants when turned out 
of the pots, a few inches from the glass, under 
which four of the best plants may be set and 
planted, an inch or two lower than they were in 
the pots ; at the same time, if an inch or two of dry 
mould is strewed over the vacant space of the bed, 
it will be the means of checking an over quantity 
of steam, which is so apt, at this early season, to 
"weaken the plants. After a few hours' closing of 
the lights, should the steam be observed to rise 
heavily, a little air should be given when they are 
covered up in the evening. For this purpose a 
single mat will sufEce for a few days ; but this de* 
pends more or less on the weather. In a few days 
after the plants are set out, the mould at the bottom 
of the drills or ridge of earth should be examined, and 
if there is the least appearance of burning, a few holes 
should be made with a dibble, and a little water poured 
therein, and by being left open for a few days, will 
most likely stop its progress. It arises principally 
from an over haste in moulding the bed, especially 
if the dung had not been sufEciently worked before* 
As a preventive, the author recommends turf, an 
inch or two thick, to be laid with the green side 
downwards, about a foot in diameter for the drills, or 
the same breadth as the mould is in the centre. 
Should it have happened that the burnt mould has 
much accumulated, it should be carefully drained 
away and fresh put in its room. When it is ob- 
served that roots similar to white threads, begin to 
get through the mould in either way of planting, a 



90 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

few inches of extra earth should be carefully put 
over them, to within a small distance of their seed 
leaves. The earth should be previously put in the 
frame a day or two before wanted, and laid against 
the inside, back and front, to be used occasionally 
as Wanted ; and if the surface of the intermediate 
space of the drills or other way is gently stirred, and 
at times sprinkled with water, rather in a tepid 
state, it will add considerably to the health and 
growth of the plants. The outer part of the bed 
will require attention, by protecting it with a good 
lining of dry fern or litter, which being well 
kept up, will in favourable seasons bring the fruit; 
sufficiently forward to cut off of a proper size (per- 
haps twelve or eighteen inches in length) for table^ 
as such long cucumbers are raised more to please 
the eye than the .palate. But should the weather 
prove as severe as in January and February 
1838, it will be necessary to place to the back 
and front of the frame a good lining of well-pre- 
pared hot dung. From such hot linings every 
precaution should be taken to prevent the steam 
from entering the bed; and here the author has 
to observe that, during these two critical months, 
a small thermometer kept in the frame will be of 
signal service to the young hbrticulturist in regu- 
lating the heat according to the sudden changes of 
the weather. Should the plants have gone on well 
since the first earthing four or five days back, they 
will by this time require another, which may be 
given more freely, and a little added to the open 
surface of the bed. The plants now have most 
likely made runners, where laterals (if a good s6rt) 



CUCUMBER. 91 

generally show fruit Should that not happen to 
1)6 the case, a second stopping must be resorted to ; 
and from the laterals produced by such a process, 
^ere will be a sufficiency of fruit to set. A number 
of male blossoms generally accompanies the lateral 
ehoots in clusters: these should be moderately 
thinned, for if the wHole were left on, they would 
only weaken the plant ; but they must be by no 
means all rubbed off, as these flowers are of the 
most essential service at this time of the year, there 
being now no bee to impregnate the female blooni> 
even in the finest days that can be relied on ; we 
must therefore have recourse to art, by which it is 
curious to observe how nature can be assisted 
throughout the most dreary months in the year, by 
what the gardeners call setting the fruit of early 
cucumbers or melons. Such an operation is al- 
lowed to be the most curiohs in gardening, and 
was but slightly put in practice till the rage for 
early cucumbers and melons commenced towards 
the end of the sixteenth century, and which has 
been increasing from that to the present time. 
The operation is performed in the following man- 
ner : as soon as a female blossom appears fully ex- 
panded, and in a state of sufficient forwardness, 
select one of the strongest of the male blossoms 
with a foot-stalk to it, which carefully divest of the 
petals or flower leaves from about the stamens 
and antherse ; then taking it between the thumb and 
finger, let it be inserted with the top downwards 
into the centre of the three stigmas (the principal 
parts of fructification) of the female flower ; and by 
giving it a gentle twirl, the farina or male dust is 



92 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

discharged, and thus produces the fertilisation. A 
fresh male blossom should be made use of for each 
impregnation. 

As soon as this has been performed, the plants 
begin to grow vigorously, and produce large quan* 
tities of fruit. Great care should be taken to keep 
the vines in good order, laying them out regularly, 
and not permitting them to cross each other; if 
wanted large and fine, it will be necessary to stop 
beyond the fruit two or three joints. All the 
withered and decayed leaves must be removed, as 
well as any others, when too numerous or irregularly 
placed. Attention must also be paid to the state of 
the bed as regards the heat, water^ and mould : if 
the heat is kept a few degrees greater than usual, it 
will promote the setting of the fruit. A double 
quantity of earth may now be given, but still keep 
an open space at the back and front, which in the 
course of a fortnight or three weeks may be filled 
up nearly to a level with the drills, &c. ; frequent 
Sprinklings of water should likewise be given from 
the nose of the pot. Few plants require more of 
this fluid than these, at this period of their growth. 

Should an additional heat be found necessary) 
either the front or back lining can be worked up 
anew, with the addition of some well-prepared horse- 
dung, taking the same precaution as before alluded 
to. After the plants are fully established, and the 
fruit set in a growing state, but little air will be 
necessary, except in very clear days, as the exces- 
sive moisture which the plants imbibe, prevents the 
ill effect it would have on plants of a different 
nature. The setting the fruit should be continued 



CUCUMBER. 93 

partly until May ; and as the blossoms increase in 
strength, the petals may be gently closed after the 
)peration : it may sometiines be done on the first 
letting, but in general the plants are rather too 
»nder at that time. 

The seed to be saved should be taken from the 
earliest fruit, and at the first or second joints, and 
36 perfectly well ripened ; and in order to prevent 
its running too luxuriantly into vine, it will be 
[)etter to keep it two years or more before it is 
inade use of. 

Of late years cucumbers have been successfully 
raised from layers, and when a bed is observed to 
be thin of vines or shoots, this may be done to 
idvantage, as layers of this kind generally pro- 
lace fruit of a superior quality, arising from the 
multiplicity of roots which they draw to nourish 
them. 

For the above purpose, a strong healthy shoot 
should be selected, and after the ground is a little 
way opened, gently bend it down in the opening 
to about an inch in depth, taking care to have one 
joint in the earth, and two at the end; the part in- 
Berted is then lightly covered over with earUi, and 
when it is observed that the layer has struck root> 
(which it generally does in two or three days), the 
end should be punched oiF^ and in its after growth 
treated as the parent plant. 

Such was the author's method of cultivating 
early cucumbers on dung hot-beds for above forty 
years, and he has been the more diffuse on this 
subject, for the benefit of the amateur and young 
horticulturist. The author, however, congrfitulates 



94* THE VEGETABLE CULTYVATOR. 

them on that highly useful invention, M'Phail*s piti, 
already glanced at, which has been the cause oi 
considerably lessening that care and anxiety at- 
tendant on the dung-bed system, and which will be 
spoken of hereafter : in the interim he has to re* 
mark, that should it be found necessary to have s 
second hot-bed for three or more lights at the be 
ginning of April, the dung for that purpose oughi 
to be well-worked, in a manner similar to what hai 
been already mentioned. The bed should be abou] 
two and a half feet in length, and in every wa] 
treated as for the first crop, but with the addition ol 
more air and water. As the season advances, shouk 
it so happen (which it frequently does) that tlu 
old plants continue in health, they may be consider- 
ably improved, both in vine and fruit, by thinning 
and cutting back to healthy laterals, giving the sur* 
face of the bed a top dressing of the richest mouk 
and frequent sprinklings of water, keeping the frame 
closed, as but little air will be necessary, except ii 
the hottest part of the day, &c. With this treat- 
ment the plants, by frequent sloping, may be kepi 
in a bearing state until the principal and very essen< 
tial crop comes in under hand-glasses, which the 
author has had fine by the middle of May. 

Leaving the further cultivation of the cucumbei 
on dung hot^beds for the present, the writer ha9 tc 
observe, that as the construction of such a pit ai 
the one recommended may not be familiar to man} 
readers of this work, the following outline for a 
three-light frame will be a sufficient guide, and will 
enable any person to comprehend the whole, and 
more particularly the builders in the neighbourhood 



CUCUMBER. 95 

The best materials are recommended to be used ; 
t;he mortar should not be made up with too much 
sand, and the outer wall should be nine-inch work, 
9IS it is principally to support the earth surrounding 
the pit on which it is built 

For the erection of a three-light frame-pit, a dry 
level spot of ground should be chosen (the more 
sheltered the better) fully exposed to the south; 
let a piece be measured off, and a square hole dug 
out to the depth of three feet, and of sufficient 
length and breadth, (say to contain a pit of open 
brick-work, ten feet long and four feet broad,) leav- 
ing a clear space of eighteen inches for the linings 
round the whole ; and as it will be necessary to have 
an outer wall to prevent the earth from falling in, it 
should be certainly nine- inch work as before noticed, 
and consequently a sufficient clearance of the 
ground should be made to admit the outer wall 
to the necessary breadth. 

After the bottom is properly levelled, it should be 
paved ; in the centre build a pit of open work, the 
length and breadth above-mentioned, taking care 
that thC' bricks are laid edgeways. When the open 
brick-work is carried up to its intended height, the 
space below should be cleared, as nothing further 
will be wanted in it but the heat from the linings, 
which, if required, may be kept up to 80° without 
danger of burning or scorching, as the platform 
hereafter mentioned will be a security against that 
When the whole of the open brick-work is carried 
up, and previous to laying on the last courses which 
will be worked close, iron bars should be in readi- 
ness one-inch broad and half an inch thick, and of 



96 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

sufficient length to go across the pit, with abou^ tir<| 
inches over at each end, to support a double ra^i 
of common house-tiles ; for which purpose the bars 
should be so placed, that a row of tiles may bo^ 
laid lengthways, their sides jesting on each bar, tb^^ 
whole to be worked in with good mortar, and wheoi 
completed, will be found to approach nearly or quite, 
to a level. Over this layer of tiles there must bfr 
another, also closely laid with mortar, and placed 
in a contrary direction to the last ; this finishes th^ 
platform on which the plants are to grow. On the 
top of the brick-work, round the pit, there should be 
laid a curb of well-seasoned deal or oak, three or 
four inches thick by nine broad, on which to rest 
a frame, should that be preferred to carrying up. 
brick-work of the proper height, twelve inches in 
front and eighteen at the back. When only a fraioe- 
for the bearers of the glasses is required, it should< 
be made so as to allow them to take out and iB»; 
which will be found a great convenience, when any 
work is required to be performed in the pit. How* 
ever, upon the whole, a three-light frame, which 
can be taken off occasionally, will be found the most 
eligible ; such a moveable frame must be the same 
depth as the wall carried up from the platform. A 
frame used for such a purpose, if made of good 
sound wood, and painted when observed to be ne- 
cessary, will last many years. In respect of glazing, 
the squares of glass, good in quality, are to be of a 
moderate size, the lap about the eighth of an inch» 
and well laid in strong putty, and twice painted ove^ 
before they are made use of. Some persons recom* 
mend lead lights ; but the author does not agree in 



CUCUMBER. 97 

^his opinion, since from their closeness they qjre verj 
«tpt to draw the phints into a weakly stata 

In respect of the size of the pit, whether there 
mre three lights or more, this is left to the judgment 
mad convenience of the builder, who of course will 
Jiave an eye to the outer wall of the pit, which 
should have a coping of stone about nine inches 
l>road, a foot or eighteen inches in length, and 
four in thickness. The stones, for better security, 
should be cramped together. If stone cannot be 
liad, the hardest and best burnt bricks should.be 
chosen. 

Such are the pit and frame the author recommends 
for early cucumbers and melons ; and should the 
outline not appear to be of graphic exactness, still 
he hopes there will be sufficient hinted at to convey 
his meaning for such an erection. The author 
does not pretend to be an architect, having had 
f<Nr nearly seventy years more active business to 
perform than to sit for hours with the ivory rule 
and sted compasses, trying to solve problems in 
Euclid. 

If it should be asked, how the author obtained 
experience to enable him thus highly to extol the 
qualities of the frame here recommended, his 
answer would be, that it resulted not so much from 
actual practice, as from his having been an eye- 
witness for many years of its utility for early work 
for various culinary vegetables. By some it has 
been objected to on account of the expense in the 
o-eotion ; but that should be a minor consideration 
when durability is required ; and this can only be 
expected when good materials are used. In that 

H 



9B THE VEGETABLE CUtTlVATOR. 

ease^ the expense for repairs, during many yean^ 
will be trifling; the greatest, indeed^ for a littler 
paint occasionally. Another objection has been 
started by some gardeners, that from the cloaenesui 
of the platform, th^re will be a detention of too 
much moisture ; but that will not be the ease if th« 
plants are not deluged, and only have gentle, though 
frequent, i^rinklings; from which, if there shoudd 
happen to be a superabundance of moisture, it wiU 
readily pass off in evaporation, by judiciously 
giving air at ^ such times as will seem necessary.! 
Few or no plants bear the weight of atmospheric 
moisture arising from heat so wdl as the cucumber, 
and few vegetables are of a more porous nature. 

Supposing the frame to be built and in readiness 
to receive the mould, &c., the first thing to be done 
is to fill up .the space left for the lining with s^ong 
horse dung litter, which has just begun to heat, so 
that, as it rises, jthere will be a strong heat thrown 
above the platform, which may be raised to 80^ 
within the frame, if required. Previously to put- 
ting in the earth {hence the grand secret on the. 
utility of the platform), there must be laid over the 
surface of the tiles three or four inches of dung 
from an old hot-bed, which will be a greater suo» 
cedaneum or nourishment to the plants than is ima- 
gined, throughout the season. When that is laid 
on, an inch or so of fine mould may be strewed over 
the whole ; after which the mould should be laid in 
either way, as before advised for dung hot-beds, 
and the plants, with regard to air, moisture, &c^ 
treated in a similar manner, and particularly the 
linings, which will want frequent stirring up, and b 



CUCUMBER. 99 

fmrt renewing. But much depends on the weather : 
iiowever, as before observed, let the thermometer be 
sesorted to ; and though the author did not use such 
«n instrument in the frame way for above forty 
jearsy still it will be found useful to such persons as 
^ave had but little experience. They are certainly 
most usefiil in stoves and forcing houses. The first 
the writer ever saw was pointed out to him by 
Philip Miller, at Chelsea, above seventy years ago. 

Should either the amateur gardener or the young 
horticulturist feel inclined to try his skill for the 
production of a cucumber that will be likely to gain 
a prize, he will do well to attend to the following 
details. 

Yarious have been the .ways by which to make 
crooked fruit straight ; such as by a sort of narrow 
glass case, or a wide-mouthed bottle &c. : in either 
case a fine bloom on the cucumber will be essential, 
this ornament being always admired both in the 
animal and vegetable kingdom. 

Ciiciimbers have been for many years successfully 
raised in pine stoves. Whether the fine brace 
presented by Fowler (Sir W. Blount's gardener), 
on Christmas or New-year's day, to George the 
First, was raised in a stove, has not been recorded. 
This presentation was made above 100 years ago ; 
hence the cultivation of early cucumbers at that 
time must have received very great attention : 
that of some ordinary fruit was of a more recent 
date; as a plate of fine well-ripened Duke Cherries 
was sent to George the Second's table by Powell, 
then the royal gardener at Kensington, on New- 
yeai^s day. Powell was succeeded by Greening, 

H 2 



100 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

gardener to George the Third ; but from his pride 
his career was of short duration. 

In raising plants for the purposes of a stove, the 
seed may be sown either at the end of September 
or the beginning of October ; but it must be ob- 
servedy that in the stove there should be a projection 
of the back flue to within eighteen inches or tw6 
feet of the bearer ; on which projection boxes xA 
pots with the plants are to be set. When they are 
of sufficient growth to plant in pots, there may be 
one, two, or three plants set in each ; that of three 
in a 48 size is principally for large pots ; but such as 
are planted in boxes, either double or single, will 
be found the most eligible : the boxes can be readily 
placed on bricks, when the top of the flue is found 
to be too warm. The soil for planting should be 
rich, but not over light, and by no means sifted; 
and two or three inches of short dung laid at the 
bottom will be of service. 

As soon as it is observed that the plants break 
into runners, after being stopped at the third joint, 
they should be carefully turned out of their pots, 
and placed an inch below the surface; and from 
the state of moisture in the pots, more or less water 
should be given. Here they are to be trained to 
sticks as high as the bearers, and afterwards turned 
down over the path, where most likely they will, 
by proper attention to water, &c., bear abundantly. 
In such situations it is astonishing to see the quan- 
tity of fruit so produced, growing over your head 
with only the glass parting them from the snow. Such 
was the state they were in when the author paid a 
visit to Kew, where tViey "wet^ cv3\\\^^\«dL in the 



CUCUMBER. 101 

jugliest perfection for many years by that excellent 
horticulturist Mr. W. Acton^ to whose estimable 
iisUher many of the best horticulturists in this king- 
dom lie under obligations. 

Thus far on the early cultivation of cucumbers. 
The raising of the cucumber under hand-glasses 
Is of great consequence, being a succession through- 
out the summer, and is of much emolument to the 
market gardener. Hand-glasses are made of va- 
fious sizes, ; but such as are about eighteen inches 
square will be found the most useful. The glass is 
generally worked m lead, of the pieces for which 
ihe glazier well knows the use. To the bottom of 
each glass there should be fixed a piece of iron 
hoop, to protect it in wearing. 

According to the quantity of plants required, the 
seed of the long green prickly kind, should be sown 
about the middle of April, either distinct on a 
islight heat, or in any part of a cucumber frame. 
When of sufficient strength they should .be planted 
{the nu)ttld being light md rich) three in a 32 
size pot; when, having a little water they may 
be plunged in a moderate heat until they begin to 
grow; and when the vines are observed to have 
grown to the third joint, leave two strong ones, 
which, after being stopped, will furnish sufficient 
fanners to cover the bed. Very little of the stopping 
is.attendied to in extensive market grounds ; neither 
are the glasses taken off, being only tilted on one 
mde : they require, however, different usage in pri- 
vate gardens. 

While the plants are getting on for their final 
planting, a rich well sheltered spot should \>^ Ocio^^x^ 

H 3 



102 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOIU 

in which a treDch should be thrown oot for any 
nomber of glassesy at three feet six inches distane^ 
about a foot deep, and about three feet or three fett 
six inches wide, hiying the earth regularly on eaoh 
side of the trench* which should be filled up with 
well-prepared hot dung to full two feet in thickneifl^ 
well beat down with the fork ; and if lightly tro4» 
den down, it can be better levelled to receiTe the 
mould, which may be put on immediately afterwards 
to the depth of eight or ten inches : should heary rail 
intervene^ the surface must hare some sort of teflon 
porary covering, ^s soon as the heat is found ti> 
have risen throughout the mould, it should be 
levelled. A line is then to be drawn in the centM^ 
on which the glasses are to be placed at three feet 
six inches from the outside of the first glass ; afiber 
which the plants may be turned carefully out of the 
pots, and planted, without disturbing the baUi^ 
under the centre of each glass, about an inch or so 
deeper than they were before. The glasses ai^ 
then to be set on, and should the sun come odt 
warm, and the earth be rather dry, a little water 
will be necessary (rather of a tepid nature), as well 
as a little shade for a day or two, if the sun is very 
hot The shading of hand-glasses may be done 
very expeditiously by sprinkling the glasses with 
water, on which a little fine earth may afterwards 
be strewed, and which will be found sufficient for a 
day or two ; the glasses must be kept dose during 
that time, the more readily to enable the plants to 
draw fresh roots; after which air must be given 
more or less, according to the state of the weather. 
If the weather should prove cold and wet, a covei^ 



CUCmfBKR. 10$ 

ing of mats wiU- be necessary, which tnaynfore eoo^ 
veniently be done by arching the bed ov«r ivtth rods 
or hQop& • When it liB observed that the plants hat0 
nearly filled the glasses, air should be gradiliE^ 
given all round, which will harden the plants pre- 
paratory to their being finally left out, stifi puttfng 
on iha oovering at night* Fkmoui^y to the plants 
faioiag turned fipom under the ^ksses, the sur&ce of 
the ridge should be lightly stirred, and the whole 
eovered wkh>some dry stuff, about aii inch or two in 
tfaiokness;. and as a preveBtive against insects^ a 
little floot should be scattered over the surfiEiee^ 
After this is done, the runners should be regularly 
laid cmt, and, if necessary, pegged down ; but thte 
is eeldom required after placing Hie glassed regu-< 
kurty orer the plants, for each of iirfaich glasses thr^e 
briekbats or such like will be wanted. Should one 
maner start considerably over another, it lAay be 
stopped near the point. However, too much of 
that stopping tinder hand-glasses only causes con* 
fuaioDy and will require the knife some time or 
other in the season. The market gardeners about 
Limdbn, who have 500 or more glasses, only give 
air on one side; and the author has observed the 
few shoots that are let out thence, to be three or 
four feet long. A different mode of culture, how- 
ever,' is required for private gardens, where the 
number of glasses is limited. 

Little more need be said of hand-glass culture, 
ezoqpt as regards the watering, keeping the ridge 
dear of weeds, and continuing the covering frequent 
and moderate in dry weather ; and should the early 
|Nurt of the autumn prove cold and wet, occasional 

H 4 



10^ THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

covering will be of much service in preventing ait 
early mildew^ as well as the fruit from spotting. If 
there are frames to spare, putting them on earij will 
answer the purpose best* 

It now only remains for the author to say a few 
irords on the final culture of this luxurious vege- 
table: it may be called so in whatever state it is 
eaten ; but to consider it in any way nutritious is 
out of the question. 

; What the author alludes to is the raising of cucum- 
bers for picklersy or as our ancient cooks used to 
call them, '^ gerkins." For this purpose a light ridi 
s|>ot of ground should be chosen, previously well 
worked up a full spade in depth, in which a shallow 
drill (if more than one, they must be four feet 
apart) should be drawn, and the seed thinly scat* 
tered in at an inch or two apart (to be thinned 
hereafter), about the lOth or I2th of May, and 
lightly covered with earth : should as many come 
up as were sown, a thinning will be requisite to 
eight or ten inches apart. Their after-culture will 
principally consist of keeping the ground clear of 
weeds by light hoeing, as the roots run very near 
to "the surface ; and by training the shoots, when 
five or six inches high, to the right and left. To 
keep them in that position, a little light earth taken 
from the alleys may be laid over their stems, wideh 
will be the means also of strengthening the plants 
hereafter. 

In many of the market grounds round London^ 
where acres of early cabbages are planted* and in 
full cut by the middle of May, patches are cleared; 
the ground dug up and a little hollowed out* in 



ENDIYB* 105 

which ten or a dozen seeds of cucumber are sown : 
when up, and on the appearance of their first rough 
leaf, they are thinned to four or five, in a patch; the 
hollow basin-like places are filled up, and the re- 
mainder left to chance and nature; but generally 
in this manner a large crop of fruit is produced, 
especially if the season is genial. Thus with little 
trouble and no expense, a sum of money may be 
realised, which would otherwise be lost. The author 
hopes this hint will be taken advantage of by the 
cottager. Where a crop of cucumbers is grown in 
tiie open air, it is a great advantage to cover the 
ridges two or three inches thick with clean straw 
or peas haulm, when the plants are grown sufii- 
eiently long : this will keep the sun from parching 
the ground in hot dry weather, and prevent the 
blossoms and young fruit from being covered with 
soil during heavy rains. It also prevents the fruit 
from becoming spotted, when the autumn is wet 
ttid cold. 

20. ENDIVE. — CicHORiUM. 

This plant receives its botanic appellation from 
its being a species of succory. The English name 
endive^ is derived from its specific denomination 
Jhdkna* The garden endive is a hardy annual, a 
iiatiTe of China and Japan, and was introduced into 
England in the reign of Edward the Sixth, in 1548. 
It is cultivated in this country more as a winter and 
spring salad than for any other purpose. The 
Pren^ make a great consumption of it at their 
tablesi eating it raw in salads, boiled in ragout^ 



106 THE VEOETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

fried with roast meat, and as a piekle, esteemixkg it 
a wholesome esculent, which never disagrees with 
the stomach. 

That early and excellent herbalist Gerard informs 
us that these herbs, and especially the white 0$ 
blanched endive, eaten in salading or otherwise^ 
comfort the weak and feeble stomach, and cool 
and refresh it when much heated. 

The best varieties are but few, and, if kept dis* 
tinct, they will be found quite sufficient for every 
culinary purpose to which ihej are adapted. 

1. Broad-leaved, or Batavian Endive, is esteemed 
preferable for stews and soups. It is less hardy 
than the curled sort, and is mostly cultivated for 
use in the autunm. The true sort has a thick 
roundish leaf, wrinkled and turning inwards, so as to 
form a blanchidd centre. 

2. Green-curled, is readily known by its beautiM 
lancinated leaves. ' It is a very fine, stocky, and hardy 
variety, and principally grown for the main autumn 
and winter crops. It is more used for salads than 
the first sort ; and when cultivated by the market 
gardeners, it invariably meets with a ready sale and 
good price. 

S. White-curled, is more delicate, but less hardy 
than the green, and is therefore only proper for an 
early crop : its principal property is quickness in 
blanching. 

Should any more or new sorts be wanted, they 
may be obtained on application to any respectable 
seedsman ; but the author has always found the 
above named varieties superior, and sufficient for 
every use required. 



SMDITB. 107 

CWftttre.— The plants can only be raised fh>m 
seed, which is sown in beds of rich mellow eaithf 
and raked lightly in ; the season of sowing it de» 
pends upon what time the plants may be wanted 
for use. 

In order to have a very early crop, a sowing 
should be made about the third week in May: when 
sowing takes place too early, the plants are apt to 
run to seed ; and when it is deferred too long, the 
plants do not attain a suffident growth befove they 
are set in the autumn. 

The Green-curled variety is the best for the 

eoriier sowings. From the time the seed is first 

sown, occasional slight waterings must be given 

i^en the weather is dry ; the plants should be kept 

perfectly clear from weeds, and property thinned 

oat, BO as not to draw up too fast and in a weakly 

state* When they are from four to six inches high, 

they are to be planted out in a rich well-prepared 

bed or border ; the plants for the eariy crop in as 

open a situation as possible, and for the later the 

more southern and sheltered the better, in order that 

the plants may better stand the severity of the winter. 

The ground being well prepared, Uie plants can 

be taken up from the seed-bed with their roots as 

perfect as possible ; drills, the depth of a hoe, should 

be drawn across the bed or border (as the endive 

blanches with less trouble than if inserted on a 

level surface), and the plants^ after having their 

roots and tops shortened, put in with a dibble 

twelve inches apart each way; and, with a good 

^watering, they will soon strike root Little more 

need be done till they have produced a new set 



108 THE VEGETABLB CULTIVATOR. 

of leaveS) when the ground should be hoed or^t 
and the mould drawn out of the drills and leveled 
round the plants, which will accelerate their growths 
It will also considerably forward them for blanch* 
ing, which should be done as soon as they haye ex- 
panded a sufficient quantity of leaves for tying : the 
sooner this is done the better, as they are very Kpi 
to start for seed at this early season, after whioh 
they are good for nothing. 

For a successional and more permanent cn^ 
seed of both the sorts should be sown towards the 
middle of June, and treated, with regard to water, 
&&, in the same way as was advised for the first 
sowing. The same method, if acted upon with all 
small seeds in the course of the summer, will be 
found of essential service. As soon as the plants 
attain a sufficient growth, proceed to transplant 
them exactly in the same manner as stated for the 
first ; perhaps a few inches wider apart may be re^ 
quisite; and, if more than one row is required^ 
always set the plants in the triangular or quincunx 
method, as they will have considerably morcj roooi 
to grow, and be less liable to rot in the course pf 
blanching. For this purpose, as the season advancesi 
a dry day must be chosen, and as it will take about 
three weeks from the time of tying them, until they 
are properly blanched for use, a judgment may be 
formed as to how many it will be necessary to tie 
up at a time. 

For a late winter and spring crop, a third sowing 
will be requisite about the latter end of July and 
beginning of August ; and from this a sufficiency of 
plants may be raised for a continuance throughoat 



BKDIVB. 109 

iht winter. To the market gardener, who pre* 
gerres them for spring use, they are of much benefit^ 
as they, always meet with a ready sale. 

Tlie seed for this crop should be sown on a rich 
spot of ground, rather thin, and fully commensurate 
to the number of plants required for immediate use; 
find the few hundred seedlings left after planting 
need not be thrown away, as they will b^ found 
useful hereafter. Should the weather at the time of 
sowing be hot and dry, shade and moisture will be 
necessary. 

When it appears that the plants are of sufficient 
strength to plant out, it should be done imme* 
diately, either in beds, borders, or wherever there 
» a yacancy ; as also under warm walls, pales, banks^ 
and such places, where they are most likely to stand 
the weather. As the season continues mild and 
tiie plants are fit, they may be blanched in their 
places of growth^ but the major part should be 
taken up and put under some sort of protecticm 
froBCL our variable climate. Various are the methods 
recommended for this purpose; one of the most suo^ 
eessful, particularly where there is not the conve* 
aiency of a shed, is by throwing up and forming a 
doping bank of earth, two or three feet high, to face 
the south, on which to plant the endive ; but let it 
be observed that the lighter and drier the mould, 
and the warmer the situation, the better. 

For taking up the endive, let a dry day be chosen 
towards the end of October or beginning of No- 
vember ; gather the leaves together with the hand^ 
and let them be planted entire on the warm side of 
ihe bank, beginning in a horizontal direction fh>m 



110 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

east to west on the top^ and so working downwards 
till the whole is completed; let the plants be set 
about a foot apart each way, and nearly np to their 
tops, where, by a protection of fern, pea haulm, straw, 
or mats, they can be defended from the weather^ 
and be ready for use in a short time when reqaired. 
Where frames or pits are to spare, they may be 
used to advantage in preserving endive that has 
been previously blanched for daily use, by filling 
them with thoroughly consumed dry tan: where 
much of this article is used^ a good store should 
always be kept in readiness, as it will be found of 
great utility in severe seasons for protecting many 
kinds of plants, which otherwise would be difficult 
to preserve. When the frame or pit is filled up, the 
endive should be taken in a dry day with the roots 
entire, and plunged in the tan nearly to the top in 
this state ; after the lights are put on they will rest 
secure, and be ready for use at aH times and in all 
weathers. 

Should there be any plants of the last sowing left 
in the seed-bed, they may be taken up and planted 
in drills in the warmest part of the garden, where, 
if they survive the winter, they will, by drawing a 
little mould to each side, be found very useful 
either for soups or stewing ; a garden, in the month 
of March, being rarely overstocked with them. 

The blanching of endive should always be per- 
formed in dry days ; and in winter, when the weather 
is dry without frost. Using strings of fresh bass^ 
tie the leaves regularly together a little above the 
middle, moderately close. If the soil is light and 
dry, earth them up half way ; Wt \^ moixat) merely 



FENNEL. Ill 

tie them. The blanching is completed at different 
iimeS} according as the weather is hot, dry, or cold, 
^metimes in one, two, or three weeks ; but generally 
the latter. This esculent is also occasionally^ blanched 
l>y setting up on each side of the plants, fiat tiles 
or bricks, which, resting against each other, in aa 
^angular form, and covered with earth, exclude the 
light It may 'also be blanched under garden-pots, 
ia the manner of sea-kail. 

In the sunmier and autumn tying up is best, but 
in cold or wet weather the latter method may be 
practised ; which, by covering the plants, preserves 
while it blanches them. 

21. FENNEL. — Anethum. 

Fennel, — Aneihum, Fomicidum ; — the latter name 
is the original, but Linnaeus, in his system of botany, 
annexed the genus Fcmictdum to that of Anethum 
(Common Dill). 

Anethum is derived from the Greek ward, to run 
up ^uick or straight, and fomiculumy from the sup- 
pose resemblance of the plant, when withered and 
dried, to hay. It is a native of Germany, Spain, 
Italy, and many other places. It has sown itself in 
many parts, and appears like a native in England, 
being enumerated as such by many botanists. It 
may be seen growing wild on the banks of the river 
Adur, between Brighton and Worthing ; about 
Gravesend, and other parts of Kent; in Sussex, 
Cambridgeshire, and commonly on the western 
coasts. 

The tender stalks of fennel are \i&ed va ^oiu^ \ 



112 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOIU 

the leaves, when boiled, enter into manj- fiair flfe«M% 
.particulariy mackerel, — and when raw, are used 'HI 
garnishes for several dishes. It is also eaten in tMi 
state with pickled fish. In France it is very exUstt' 
sively used, and in Spain is pat up with olives and 
pickled pork. The' whole of the plant is good in 
broih or soups ; it is a hardy and wholesome heiH 
and agrees well with the stomach. ^ 

It is said the juice of this plant, taken when tlje 
stalk is nearly full grown, has the singular property 
of clearing the sight and taking away the &A 
ftrom the eyes. At aU events, this plant is used mii. 
didnally, and especially the seeds, which are '•% 
useful stomachic and carminative, and are ad^ 
mitted into the materia medica of the London 
Pharmacopoeia. 

If the virtues of this and many of the commoner 
herbs were known to the poor cottager in his afflic- 
tion, the means of alleviating suffering might be 
derived from a source little thought of, — frmn 
herbs growing in his own garden. 

That excellent author Pliny observes that a good 
housewife will go into her herb-garden, instead of a 
spice-shop, for her seasonings, and thus save the 
health of her family by saving the contents of her 
purse. 

Cukure, — Few plants, whether culinary or phy- 
sical, require less culture than the common fennd ; 
for where a plant is once established, and the seed 
allowed to ripen, hundreds of young plants wiO 
spring up yearly ; and, being a perennial, they wffl 
last many years. 

In raising the pVanta ttom «ie^) «ow eariy io 



«>>.■ 



WEVlifMU llfi 



Iptag lA ahdlow drills from six to ten inches apait; 
^p^ i£ ioteiided to remain, in some warm comer, 
^ cause it to have an early, growth : it is also pre- 
iiarable to transplanting, as the roots, from beiqg 
jLoag aiid fleshy^ are rather tardy in striking. Whefi 
ihe plants are three or four inches high, they mu^t 
be. either thinned or transplanted to about fifte^ 
inches apart The xoota of the old plants al^ 
divide into offsets, and when only a small quantity 
is wanted, they may be slipped off in spring, sunur 
mer, or autunm, and planted a foot apart, whep 
iiiey will produce an immediate supply of leaves. 
The fennel continues good for many years ; but as it 
MtkdA up strong stems for seed in summer, these 
sbofild be cut down, to encourage a production of 
young leaves below, in succession; and, by .not 
allowing it to seed, to keep the plants from spread- 
iog more than is desirable* 

Some writers have attempted to give a reason for 
the two varieties of colour arising from the samQ 
plant* The author himself made an experiment 
for two successive years, to ascertain the fact, by 
cdearing out, to a considerable distance, every other 
opiour but the one intended, so as to avoid any im« 
j)regHation, However, all would not do, as the seed 
lown in the two successive years equally produced 
a mixture of colours. Hence the question may p& 
asked* is there not something inherept in the nature 
of feniiel to cause this singularity ? 
;.. Th« irweet fennel will be treated of und^r itti 
l^roper h^iad. 



114 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

22. GARLIC — Allium. 

Allium sativum^ according to the Linnsean systeai 
of botany^ stands in the same class and order as the 
onion. Its Latin name is supposed to have origin^- 
ated from the rapidity of its growth. The term 
garlic was given on account of its powerful aind 
penetrating scent. It is a native of Sicily, the south 
of France,- and many other parts of the world, and 
Was first generally used in this country in the reign 
of Queen Mary. 

Many excellent medicinal qualities are attributed 
to this root; for instance, it is known to be of 
great service in humoral asthmas and catarrhous 
affections : a few cloves, peeled and pounded with 
honey, and taken two or three nights successively^ 
will also be found of benefit for rheumatism ; and 
few men are more liable to this painful disorder 
than gardeners, from being so much exposed to 
the wet and cold during the winter season. 

It is considered to be efficacious in many other 
complaints, and would, no doubt, be more generally 
used, were it not for its acrimonious taste and dis* 
agreeable odour. 

Garlic, when dressed after the fashion of our 
neighbours on the Continent, forms a very pleasant 
sauce for roast mutton, and is preferable to sticking 
a clove Or two in the knuckle of a leg. If the 
sauce is made according to the following direction, 
given to the author by a gentleman who used it for 
roast meats, and who considered it a strengthener 
of the stomach, it will be found mild, agreeable^ 
and most wholesome. The garlic, after being peeled 



GUINEA PEPPER. lljj 

and divided into cloves, Is to be boiled in three 
changes of water, and afterwards put into the' 
dripping-pan for about an hour before required for 
wse. It is served to table in the same way as onion - 
or bread sauce. 

CMim^* — There is at present but one variety- 
(iothum) cultivated ; it does not grow so large, and 
is sot s^ strong scented, as the one introduced some 
years ago. The root is a compound bulb, and may 
be divided into many parts, termed doves* The 
gaifio » propagated by planting these cloves in 
soflie light, and rather dry, rich soil, in drills two or 
three in^es deep, and six from each other. They 
efily require to be kept free from weeds ; and about 
the end of July, or beginning of August^ the bulbs 
afe generally full grown, which is evident from the 
y^^Iow appearance and withering of the leaves : they 
must then be taken up, cleaned, and dried in the 
sun, af d afterwards tied or plaited in bundles, to 
he hung up and preserved for use* 

23. GUINEA PEPPER.— Capsicum. 

Gc^ea pepper, more generally known by the 
botanic name of Capsicum^ which was given to it by 
the early writers in that science, signifying to bite, 
from the hot biting acrid taste of the fruit 

There are several varieties ; some of a shrubby 
nature, growiujg three and four feet high ; but these 
now treated of are annuals, whose fruit is of various 
shapes and colours. All the sorts are natives of 
South America, and were brought thence to Europe 
by i^te Spaniards ; and we have accounts of their 

I 2 



}}Q THE VEGETABLE GUI^T^VATOR. 

tiaving been cultivated in this country in the reigi% 
of Edward VI., above 300 yea^ ago. 

The medicinal and other qualities of this plavt 
are important ; the first, and not the least, is that i^ 
gives almost instantaneous relief to the toothaeher 
arising from a carious cause. A little of the pepper 
should be introduced into the cavity of the tootfe 
affected, and the head kept warm a while aflteiv 
wards. ^ 

Eaten at dinner, it prevents any flatulency being 
caused by vegetables; but for this purpose^ an^ 
indeed in most cases, it should be used with mode* 
ration. It warms, invigorates, and assists digestioiv 
and the general estimation in which it is held wiU^ 
be fully exemplified by a peep at Covent Garda^ 
market during the season of its being in use, Thc^ 
pepper vinegar, mixed with barley waters-is found 
an excellent gargle, either for the mouth G9: 
throat. 

As this work may probably fall into the hands o{ 
some persons unacquainted with the receipts for 
making the pickle, or preparing cayenne pepper 
from the capsicum of English growth, the follow^ 
ing is given, as communicated to the author many 
years ago, and practised with success. 

For the purpose of pickling^ the bell*flhaped 
capsicum, introduced into thb country in 1759» is 
esteemed the best, the skin being thick, fleshy, and 
tender; if, however, it cannot be procured, tha^ 
generally sold in the markets will answer. 

The pods for pickling should be in a green state; 

for when left to turn red, they are more tough and 

l^hiDg. The pods being gaWiexe^ NiVisix dr^^ are t^ 



GUIKEA PBPPSlt. lit 

.Ik ^t down oh one side^ and aftei? the seeds are 
iaken out, they must be laid in salt and water for 
4«ent7*four hours, changing the water at the end 
/of the first twelve. After soaking. the full time, 
they are to be laid out to drain for an hour or two, 
«nd.then put into bottles or jars, and boiled vinegar, 
after being .allowed to cool, poured over them, till 
they are entirely covered. The jars are then to be 
closely stopped for a few weeks, when the pods will 
befit for use, and are esteemed the best and whole- 
somest pickle in the world* 

. For majdng the cayenne pepper, the sort known 
Ifj the name of the cherry capsicum, or bird pepper 
(hereafter described), is generally used, being the 
most acrid of all th0 varieties. The fruit should be 
gathered when fully ripe, and well dried. in the. sun ; 
it is then ground, and after a few hours more 
drying, put into bottles and closely corked, until 
required for use. It will be found as agreeable a 
condiment to fish, as the pickle is to meat. 
. To preserve the cherry capsicum for use,' nothing 
more is necessary than to cut off the plants, ;wheu 
the fruit is ripe, cLose to the root,, tying them 
in bunches, and hanging them up in some Warm 
dry place; and from an experiment^ made by the 
anthpr^ .it appears the capsicums will remain after 
t^ing gathered for many years without losing any 
of their good qualities, excepting, perhs|,ps, that 
they become a little darker in colour. The cherry or 
bird capsicum is mentioned as the best for making 
tl^e pepper ; but when this is not to be had, either 
of the following varieties, when sufficiently dried« 
WHl answer the purpose. 

I 3 



118 THE VSOETABLB CULTIVATOR. 

. There are many varieties of the cmpsicam aft 
before noticed, some annual (the principal for culi- 
nary purposes), some biennial, lasting a year or twd 
with the assistance of a stove ; while others, of a 
more shrubby growth and longer duraticm, are Con- 
stantly kept in the stove for a display of their 
beautiful scaiiet or crimson-oolonred fruit during 
the winter. 

The following are the three varieties, which will 
be found the most useful for the purposes meth 
tioned : — 

1. Annual, or Common Capsicum, larger rather 
curved and tapering to a point. Though k native 
of a very warm climate, it endures the open air in 
this country during summer. This sort has been 
an old inhabitant of the British garden, and is the 
one generally cultivated for th6 market. 

2. Bell, or Heart-shaped, the best for pickling ; 
it produces large fine pods, rather blunt- shaped, 
and of a dark or deep red colour when ri][>e : an- 
other of this variety bears yellow pods, but they are 
grown more for ornament or curiosity than for use. 

3. Cherry, or Bird Pepper Capsicum, was intro- 
duced into this country f^om the West Indies in 
the year 1758. The fruit is small, of a brighi red 
Colour, and lasting in growth, but only with the 
assistance of a stove, being more tender than the 
two first. 

The sorts with small oblong erect pods are the 

hottest, and are commonly known under the name 

of Chilies, from coming fromChili, in South America* 

These are the best, and most cultivated, for making 

the cayenne pepper* 



GUINEA P£PP£R. 119 

. There are several other varieties of capsicum, 
piroduciag red, yellow, and black pods, which, 
however, are cultivated more for curiosity or orna- 
ment, than for utility. 

C'nJitwrt^ -— The capsicums above described are 
only raised from seed, which should be sown in the 
beginning of April, in light rich mould» either on 
a slight hot-bed, or in pots plunged in some va^ 
eant corner of a cucumber bed. But it is better 
te sow on a slight heat, and covered with a hand- 
glass, as, in such a situation they are less liable to 
be drawn up weakly. Air should be admitted 
oceasionally, and water given when Uie plants 
appear dry ; when about two or three inches high,, 
(hey are to be carefully taken up, and planted either 
amgly in small pots, or three in aflat 32 size 
pot, and after giving them a little water, they are 
to be plunged in the seed-be^ : but if a little hot 
dung is at hand, a new bed should be made, on 
purpose ; and, if this is not convenient, the pots 
toay be placed under a frame. Water must be 
^ven in moderate supplies, to assist their subse- 
quent growth. The plants, by the middle of June, 
i;¥iU3t be hardened to the open air by degrees, 
^^ aa not to feel any sudden change when turned 
f}tut. A warm south border of light rich soil is to 
y^ chosen, and the plants, after being turned out of 
^e pots, are to be planted at the distance of ten or 
twelve inches apart. In August they Will display 
iQieir shhiing green fruit, which the following month 
^ill turn to a beautiful crimson colo]^r* 

Some of the market gardeners round London^ 
.irho rabe large quantities of this fml| &c&V ^cr^ 

I4 



IflOi THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

the deed on a slight heat, and afterwards trftosptaat^- 
under glass, on a heat, three or four inches 9:gtaU 
similar to that on which the seed was sown t heuei 
they remain, the necessary attention being giyea to 
air and water, until they are finally planted out ill 
some rich sheltered spot of ground, in lines abdnt 
a foot apart and six inches from plant to plant 4n 
moist genial summers it is surprising to aee tb^ 
immense crops they produce. 

Large quantities of this esteemed fruit are -ai^ 
nually raised by Willmott, Keene, and many Qthei% 
in the neighbourhood of Brentford, leleworth, &Cb^; 
and to these gentlemen the Horticultural Sociefy 
is indebted for some of its best papers, deriving: «i 
they do their experience from horticultural pm^ 
tice. The author, however, has to regret that these 
papers are partly lost to the young horticultorisft 
(to whom they would be of the greatest Bervi<ie)» 
by the very high price charged on most of the 
works that issue from that Society. • 

24. HORSE RADISH — Cochlearia. 

r 

Cochlearia annoraeia is, by the Linnasan system^ 
(from the structure of its flower), classed witb ihie 
scurvy-gr&ss. The original name, Cochlearia^ mas 
given on account of the form of the leaves, whichi 
being slightly hollowed, resemble an old-fashioned 
spoon. 

The root, scraped into shreds, is a well*knowR 
accompaniment of English roast beef. It is aM 
used in winter salads, and sometimes in sauces* 
^ Horse radish is a native of some parts of-J3ag^ 



IsM^^itming by the sides of ditches and in maidiy 
plaices. It wad long cultivated in our gardens^ 
but does tiot seem to have found its way into 
general use or to the table, till the latter pajt of- 
the reign of Elizabeth; before that time it was 
^iefly planted for its efficacy in medicine, of which 
ear did herbalist, and many other writers, give 
ample commendation. 

The medicinal effects of horse radish ai*e t6 

Emulate the solids to activity, and, on account oi 

k» warm nature, it is good in nervous cases arising 

from 4S6ld and viscid juices. The root, when 

ftCMrtfped IVesh, creates and assists digestion ; it is 

tiievefore properly employed as a condiment either 

ivith £sh or flesh* It has been found useful in hard 

^try cough, and, from its penetrating qualities, is 

Jiig^ly -serviceable in rheumatic cases and on the 

leaiij appearance of the scurvy. 

(JuUure^ — It is rather singular that, from the 
Wholesome qualities and easy culture of this root, 
it is not in more general estimation* Two causes 
may be assigned for this neglect; the first, from its 
'Value not being known in a medicinal point of view ; 
Hud the second, from the disagreeable appearance of 
•the old tough roots of many years'growth exhibited 
-'fat sale in the country markets ; whereas, to have 
it in perfection, it ought not to exceed two, or at 
least three years, from the time the sets were first 
-planted* 

Horse radish grows best in a deep rich soil of 
lather a moist nature, as^ for instance, along the 
Thames, near^Londoa; where many acres may be 
coyered with this plant. 



122 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

It is best propagated by the tops or crowns, out 
two inches long ; if these cannot be had^ cuttings 
of any part of the root, with a joint or two, will 
answer the purpose* 

When a convenient spot of ground is ehoseO) it 
should be trenched up and well broken full two feet 
deep. The beginning of March, or thereabouts, will 
be found a good time for planting the sets. This is 
readily done by a blunt dibble fifteen inches long, 
and of sufficient thickness to allow the sets to drop 
to the bottom of the holes so made ; let thenat be 
planted nine inches apart, and the holes filled up as 
you go on. Another method of planting is to tak« 
' out an opening at one end of the bed, fifteen inches 
deep, in the common way of trenching, and planting 
a row of sets with their crowns upright ; then be> 
ginning the next trench the same width and depth, 
putting the earth on the first row, and so continuing 
until the whole is completed. After the ground, 
if of any extent, is properly levelled, some light 
crop, such as radishes, spinage, &c., may be sown, 
and will be ofi* in time not to injure the roots. 
The plants must be kept clear of weeds during the 
summer ; but when they are strong, it will not be 
necessary, as the large leaves cover the ground, 
and every other plant must give way. About the 
end of' October, or as soon as it is observed that 
the leaves begin to decay, the horse radish may 
be taken up as required for use ; for which pur- 
pose the following method is recommended:-— 
Open a trench on one side or part of a row, then- 
^ear the plants down to the crowns from whence 
they spring, and cut them o^ we^V^ UveU so that 



INPIAK CRES3. 123 

the fltidts or roots of horse radish may be taken 
up entire and sound. When all wanted are up, 
not foi^etting a stove for the winter, the ground 
should again be filled in, and, from the roots so 
eut, there will rise some fine sticks the next year,, 
and for some years after ; those also not likely to 
be wanted should be cut down, as advised for the 
young plantation, by which a constant supply of 
fine young roots is always at hand, and far su- 
perior to the old knotty roots in common use ; for 
after a certain age they become tough, and have a 
disftgreeable bitterish taste. In spring, a little rich 
earth spread over the bed will benefit the plants ; 
mnd as the leaves decay in^the autumn, let them be 
vaked off with a wooden rake. 

Whenever more of the roots are taken up at 4 
time than are wanted, they may be preserved in a 
jnicj state for some time, by putting them in a little 
moist sand, under cover. 

£5. INDIAN CRESS, — Tropjeolum. 

Tlie botanic name TropiBolum is derived from 

a Latin word signifying a warlike trophy. This 

fEiiicifnl name was chosen by Linnaeus, because he 

conceived the shield-like leaves of the Tropseolum, 

and its brilliant flowers, shaped like golden hel- 

soets, pierced through and through and stained 

^th blood, might easily originate such an ideau 

The common name of Nasturtium was given in 

reference to the cress-like flavour of the herbage. 

- The Indian cress, more generally known by the 

name of Nasturtium^ is a native ot PetMi, t«\i«CL<» 



IS^ THE VEGBTABLB CULTIVATOR. 

it i;i^ brought by the Spaniards in the yea^ 
.1580; and it afterwards appears to hare haen 
«own and cultivated by Gerard, the celebrated 
herbalist, whose garden, at Ely Place, HolborA^ 
.h^s now vanished, and it may be said, has ^* left iMyt 
a wreck behind." 

Not only does this brilliant flower enliven the 
gardens both of the rich and poor, but it also adds 
to the health of the body. The flowers and 
young leaves have a warm taste, like the garden 
.cress, and are sometimes used in like maniier in 
salads* The seeds or berries, when gathered 
yQung, on a dry day, and pickled in the best vine* 
gary form an excellent substitute for capers, which: 
they much resemble; and, indeed, many persons 
prefer them to capers. 

This herb is also esteemed a good antiscorbutic ; 
the 'flowers and young leaves, as before stated, being 
of a warm, spicy, agreeable, taste, are serviceable in 
weakness or pain in the stomach, proceeding from 
cold, and flatulencies. To sum up the whole, they 
will be found a most brilliant garnish to dishes by 
candle light* The two principal varieties for eu« 
Unary use are the following : -— 

1. Nasturtium major, well known as an old in^ 
habitant of the English garden, producing its seed 
in knots of three joined together. 

2. Nasturtium minor, is of much later intro*. 
duction. It grows very dwarf and bushy, and pro* 
duces larger seeds than the major, which are 
preferred for pickling; but from its scanty pro-, 
duction, there requires to be a larger quantity of 

plants grown for that purpose. 



INDIAN CRBSS. I^ 

. There have of late years been several other single 
varieties of the Tropceolum introduced, some of a 
most beautiful crimson colour, but they are yet 
rather scarce, and have not found their way to the 
kitchen garden, or become like the two named sorts, 
an appendage to the cottager's arbour* They con«« 
t^ the same good qualities, ai)d would form ar 
pleasing variety. 

CuUure, — ^ The Indian cress, being too tende^ 
to survive the cold of our winters, is treated as aa 
annual plant ; and if not sown for the benefit of thet 
seed or herbage, it should be for the elegance of its 
flowers : the new and dwarf sorts in particular ar^ 
showy, and have a brilliant effect in the flower-r 
giarden; they are also well adapted for covering 
msightly walls or old buildings. 

The seed is sown from the middle of March to 
lie xoiddle of May, in patches or drills an inch and^ 
t half deep. It is not necessary to be very nice ii> 
*espect of soil or situation, as they will thrive almost 
my where. The seed should be sown thinly, and if 
"equisite, it will transplant well ; the plant may also 
>e propagated by cuttings. The greatest enemies to 
;his plant are late spring frosts. When the plantft 
ulvance into runners, and are wanted as a blindir 
et them be trained to stakes, bushes, or trellia 
ivork, and they will afterwards climb unassistedf 
Xke major nasturtium will sometimes grow to i^ 
fereat length, as much as* twenty feet or mor^ in thQ 
Beoson, 



1^ THE VBGKTABLE CULTIVATOR. 



26. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE.— 
Helianthus. 

The botanic name of this plant is given as 
specie of turnsol or sonflower, which, when ieot-^ 
pandedy resembles the figure of \ the radiant snn, -^ — 
tamsol, from its supposed singularity in turning its 
face always towards that luminary in his diurnal 
course. It has the specific name of Tuberosa from 
its large irregular shaped roots. 

It has the name of aitichoke from the tuberous 
Foots^ which, when boiled, have the flavour -of the 
true artichoke. The Italians called it '' girassol,'* 
which was corrupted by the English into Jerusafem ; 
hence the common name Jerusalem artichoke. 

This root, which a learned author says is more 
pleasant than profitable^ is, though of so hardy a 
nature, a native of the Brazils, in South America, 
whence it was sent to France; and at the time 
the French were in possession of the Canadas, in 
North America, it was introduced by them into 
that country, and throve so well that the name Ca- 
nada potato was given to it by the inhabitants. The 
first', introduction of the J. artichoke into En^nd 
was during the reign of James I., and from only 
two roots the country was so stocked with them, 
that in the course of a few years they were so 
cheap and plentiful that the most vulgar began to 
despise them ; whereas, when first introduced, they^ 
were, as Parkinson (an eminent herbalist in those 
days) says, " a dainty for a queen." 

They were formerVy bikeA. m ^^ea ^\1\!l maxtowt 



JERUSi^LEM ARTICHOKE* 127 

dates, ginger, sack, raisins, &c. ; and so made thej 
must have been a dainty dish indeed. 

The modern way of cooking these roots is to boH 
them in water till they become tender, when, after 
bein^ peded, and stewed with butter and a little 
wine, they will be as pleasant as real artichoke 
bottoms, which they nearly resemble both in taste 
and flavour. However, on account of their watery 
qualities they will never be in much repute, 
though they may fill up a gap as a side dish at the 
table. 

Culture. — Throughout the whole tribe of culi- 
nary vegetables there is none that requires so little 
labour in their cultivation as the J. artichoke ; for 
the smallest offset, when put into the ground and 
rooted, will soon multiply into hundreds, and when 
once established they are with difficulty cleared out 
of the land. 

They are propagated by either planting the small 
rootS) or dividing the large ones into offsets, with 
an eye or two attached, in a similar manner to the 
potato ; they may be planted any time in March, 
in a light mellow soil, in any recluse comer of the 
garden, previously trenched a foot or fifteen inches 
deep* . They should be planted in rows three feet 
apart, and about one foot in the row ; and to have 
fine roots they should be taken up and replanted 
erery year. The stems grow to a considerable 
hi^ght, and have the appearance of the sunflower, 
only that in this country they do not blossom. 

About the latter end of September the roots or 
tubers will be sufficiently ripened for use, and to- 
wards the end of November a quantity ina:^ >q^ 



128 THS VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

taken up for consumption during the winter, 
preserved in ^and or light soil out of the reach 
frost. 

In the cultivation of this vegetable, the aw 
has to observe that a light soil should be chosen i 
preference to a strong rich one ; such may probabl 
have an influence on the root in respect of mois— 
^ure, as it has on the potato. 



27. KIDNEY BE AN. — Phaseolus. 

The botanic term Phaseoltis is supposed to allad^^^ 
to the shape of the seed-vessel, which resembles a 
kind of small boat, known under the same denomi- 
natioiL The English name kidney-bean was givei 
on account of the seed being of a kidney shape ; i1 
is also erroneously called French bean, froiid i1 
being a long time cultivated in that country, an< 
introduced under that name to its neighbours* 
native place of the kidney-bean is the most southerly 
part of Europe* 

It is supposed by some writers that kidney-1 
were first introduced into this country from 
Netherlands, about the year 1509, when giurdeninj 
first began to flourish and to obtain attention ; foi 
even at that time it was more progressive in im- 
provement than could have been expected, ooi 
sidering the want of learning which then prevailedj 
even amongst the higher classes* 

The use of the kidney-bean is too well known 
require to be described here. Gerard mentions, evei 
in bia time, that it ^as considered pleasant and 





i<* 



KIDNEY BEAK. 1^ 



itfi to. the taste> and not apt to engender wind, as 
10 other pulse is disposed to do. 
^^ith such qualities^ it is no wonder they are so 
sh. in. repute ; and where there is a conveniency 
forcing) they can be obtained ail the year round* 
Ibe dwarf White Dutch Kidney Bean was the 
it sort introduced into England at the abore 
3, but was increased in the early part of the 
;n of Elizabeth, by the addition of several other 
leties. These varieties were all dwarfs, and It 

not until some years afterwards that the scarlet- 
pier made its appearance. This bean at first was 
jT thought fit to cover old walls and unsightly 
Idings ; but now and for some years past the 
^CKlice against them having worn away, they have 
iB proved highly beneficial, and are considered, ifi 
at of flavour and tenderness, equal to any of the 
0V8. They are also the most productive^ and afford 
iccession of pods until checked by the frost 
Numerous are the varieties of this pulse which 
re been introduced within the last fifty ye&K: 
Bt of them are good ; but the following have stood 

test of time^ and will be found fully to answer 
: description given. 

Dwarf Varieties. 

I.. Negro Kidney Bean. There are two sorts, th$ 
ge and small (the latter is best for forcing) ; they 
I generally planted for a first and last crop, for 
lich they are well adapted, and, on account of 
^ coming quickly in and quickly ofi*, they arQ 
ry suitable for the market gardener, who always 
ids 9, ready sale for them early la the seaBqu, 

K 







lS() tHE VEGETABLE CJULtlVAtOH. 

2. Dun or Liver-coloured, excellent for bearings 
Bhould be planted for the main and successional. 
crops, and also for forcing* 

S. Red-speckled, is equal to the best, either foi 
forcing or the open ground ; it was first raised by 
gardener named Fulmer, whose name it continttc 
to bear to this day. It is very prolific, of a com] 
growth, and comes in early. 

4. Black and Purple-speckled, are two good aorta; 
they resemble each other in growth and quality, anc 
are cultivated for a succession. 

5. Yellow, also known as Cream-colour, is one ol 
the best and most useful sorts in cultiyation* It if 
a good family and market bean ; is very productivt 
and well flavoured, and should be planted exten- 
sively for the main or princip^ crop, and espeoiaH] 
by the cottager. 

Any of the above five sorts will be found th< 
most profitable and useful, either for forcing or th< 
open ground : there are many intermediate yarieti< 
of similar growth and bearing to tlie above, so 
there are plenty to choose from* 

6. White Dutch, a fine bean, but of rami 
growth, and, as before observed, the first introduced^— 
into this country* 

7* Canterbury, a small late White bean : it is 
Very prolific bearer, and principally planted in 
to gather the pods for pickling. 

8. Battersea— very like the Canterbury in sliape^- 
colour, and bearing, and is chiefly planted for th^^ 
same purpose. 

The seeds of the two last varieties are extensive!]^ 
Used, when in a dry state, by the French 






i 



KIDN&Y BEAK. 131 

iKans, for the purpose of making a favourite dish 
[led ^* haricot ; ** they are also used by many 
allies in England for the same purpose* After, 
i seeds are boiled for a short time, they are put 

the stew-pan, with strong gravy and high 
soilings, and the whole forms a. delightful .dish. 
ere are two other varieties of dwarfs, the China 

1 Sparrow-egg, both great bearers, and being 
y dwarfs are well adapted for small gardens. 

Running Varieties. 

1. Scarlet, from the colour of its blos8bms« This 
m being rather sportive, cure should be taken to 
act the most perfect marbled sort for seed. The 
ection should be made soon after the seed is 
rashed out, for when it gets older, the colour is 
t so discernible. 

2. White Dutch Runner, a fine bean, and a very 
t>lific bearer. It is called in many parts of England 
ise-knife Bean, from the shape of the seed-pod, 
lich is of considerable length, flat, and rather 
int. It is a favourite bean in the county of Kent, 
td much cultivated by the farmer and cottager. 
pon the whole, however, the preference is to be 
ven to. the scarlet runner* 

S. Azonian Kidney Bean, is so named by the 
ithor, on account of its flourishii^ in some of 
lOse islands. A few seeds were brought thence 
f a gentleman, and obligingly given to the writer, 
ho planted them, and can testify to their singular 
od rapid growth, great bearing, and delicacy of 
iste. Mr. W. Rogers, who is at present in pos- 
>8^on of the stock, hopes to have, in the course 

K 2 



132 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

of another season, a sufficiency to supply his cas* 
tomers ; at present they are scarce. 

The seeds are rather small, flat, and quite of the 
kidney shape ; the plants are good bearers^ pro- 
ducing their pulse nearly a foot long, in branches 
of four to every joint, and almost from the ground 
to upwards of twenty feet, till the frost checks them. 

In respect to cooking, a very small portion of the 
sides requires to be peeled off; two cuts, one dowa 
the middle, and another to divide it into four parts, 
will be found quite sufficient, and much superior to 
the modem method of mincing the beans before 
boiling, which renders them more watery andT 
tasteless. 

There are two other running kidney beans, the 
Zebra, so called from the seed being curiously 
striped, and the Painted Lady ; both of which may. 
occasionally be planted for variety and succession. 
They are good bearers, and the pods are delicate 
and well tasted. 

Culture of the Dwarf Varieties. 

The soil for kidney beans in general, but more 
particularly for early crops, should be rich, light, 
and dry, and must have been manured for a crop oir 
two before (fresh dunged ground being a poison to 
the seed), and also worked up to the depth of & 
foot or eighteen inches. The ground being well 
wrought and levelled, drills may be drawn two 
inches deep, and, if for a principal crop, at two feet 
or two feet and a half distance, according to the 
size of the seed. The best season for planting the 
beans is the first or second ^^^V \ii"Nl»:^* ^h&x 



klDNEY BEAN* 133 

re set in the drills from two to three inches apart : 
nd their future culture will consist principally in 
eeping the ground clear from weeds, and when the 
lants have fully expanded their first rough leaves^ 
1 drawing up some earth on each side of them to 
trengthen and prevent them from being much 
liaken by the wind. 

For successional crops, the prtmum of gardening, 

Tbw rows, more or less, according to the wants of 
le family, should be sown about every three weeks 
•om the end of May to the first week in August^ 
le last sowing to be the small Negro variety, which 
ill continue till the first sharp frost in October. 
hould the ground be dry at the time necessary for 
>wing any of the intermediate crops, the seed may 
e soaked in water for a night, or the drills well 
Loistened, when the seed is sown. This will acce* 
(rate their growth, and produce more regular crops. 

Where a quantity of this vegetable is required, 
ither for pickling or preserving, if a few rows of 
le Canterbury or Battersea variety are sown the 
lird week in May, they will come in at a more 
ftrly and propier season than those gathered from 
le main crop for the purpose ; and the sooner they 
re used after being gathered the better* 

In private gardens, where there are no hot-house^ 
its, &c., the following method may be resorted to, 
y which this desirable pulse may be obtained ten 
ays or a fortnight earlier' than those sown in the 
pen ground. A slight hot-bed should be made 
jovLt the third week in April, and covered five or 
X inches with some light rich soil, over which one 
r more handglasses must be set| aocoidrng t/0 \]dl^ 

K 3 



.134 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

breadth of seed sown. In want of glasses, the M 
may be arched over with stakes, and covered with 
mats; the seed, after being planted, will soon v^etate 
and come up ; and when that is observed, in what* 
ever way they are covered, let plenty of air be given 
in the day, and if the weather is mild, a little at nigltt) 
so as to harden them sufficiently for planting out. 

If all has gone on well, and the plants, having 
produced their leading shoots, are in good order 
towards the latter etid of May (no precise time eas 
be mentioned, as much depends on the weather), 
they are to be planted out, either close under some 
warm wall or on a south border. In either pkKe 
the ground should be well broke up, and wherever 
the plants are set, if within a few inches of the wall, 
or in lines along or across the border, drills should 
be drawn to receive them : if there be more than one 
row, about eighteen inches between each will be saf* 
ficient. The ground being ready, the plants should 
be carefully taken up from under the handglasses, 
and with a garden trowel set about four or five 
inches apart, and an inch or two deeper than they 
were before in the seed-bed: at ihe same tisie, 
should the weather or ground be dry, a little water 
must be given, but not that taken immediately 
from the pump or pond, for reasons ^veii in a for- 
mer part of the work ; as the chilliness of the watery 
often given to tender plants in the early spring 
months, is the cause of their perishing. Where 
there are forcing-houses in work, w^ter for such 
purposes can always be kept in readiness. 
' As the plants advance in growth, earth should be 
drawn to their stems, and if the plants are ip i^ 



KIDNEY B1|AN« 19$ 

Tlgorous growing state, a few of the leading shootft 
Miay have their tops pinched o% which will pro* 
<luce a more regular crop. 

Before entering on the artificial culture of thit 
pulse, the cultivation of the running varieties must 
be noticed, as they claim a place in the garden both 
of the peer and the peasant, but more particularly 
of the latter, for, with little expense and labour; he 
may regale himself for months with one of the most 
delicate vegetables which the garden produces. 

Culture of the Running Varieties. 

Few words will suffice imder this head, no vege« 
table being moro easy of cultivation. Some of the 
fioest crops are often seen growing in the well- 
stocked garden of the cottager, who values it not 
only as furnishing him with a nourishing and whole- 
some diet, but also as forming an excellent arbour 
from the mid-day son, and a beautiful natural poroh 
to his dwelling. 

The soil for planting the seed should be similar 
to that advised for the dwarfs. About the second 
week in May (a most sure season) an open well 
wrought piece of ground should be chosen, and 
lifter being properly prepared, a drill should be 
drawn from noifth to south about two inches deep. 
The seed is then dropped in about three inches 
asunder, and covered lightly with the hoe. If there 
be more than oae row, they should be full three feet 
or more apart, so as to be well open to the stin and 
air, to insuro a better crop. 

When the plants are about three or four inches 
ikigh, a little earth will be of much service, drawn 

K 4 



\ 



136 THE VE^EtABLE CUtTIVATOR. 

up on each side, and when it is observed they begiir 
to form runners, tall, strong bushy sticks should be 
placed (not too close) firmly on each side. They 
Will afterwards give but little trouble, except in 
keeping the ground clear of weeds, and gathering 
the pulse for use. When a crop of these beans i» 
required to continue for a length of time in a bear- 
ing state, the fewer beans left on for seed the better; 
these checking their produce for the table. The 
other sorts do not require such bushy sticks as for 
the scarlet, though quite as tall or taller ; a single 
pole or twine would do for the A2onian bean, and 
when once they catch their support^ they will after, 
wards guide and support themselves. When the 
growth of the scarlet runners is checked by the 
autumn frosts, the haulm may be cleared away, and» 
if some dry litter is spread over the roots as a pro-* 
tection from any severe weather, they will grow, and 
produce an early and abundant crop the following 
summer ; they can also be taken up on the approach 
of frost, and preserved through the winter in some 
dry mould, and replanted again in ApriL This 
method of preserving the old roots may be had re* 
course to in any contingency, but the present prac* 
tice of sowing fresh seed every spring is preferable^ 
and attended with a greater certainty of success. 

Artificial Culture. 

In the whole line of the artificial forcing of vege* 
tabled for culinary purposes, few come to hand with 
less labour or with greater facility than the kidney 
bean, whether raised in frames, pits, or in a pine 
stove ; which last Is the principal mode of culture 



kidneV BeAn. Id? 

ko be relied on for producing good and early crops: 
This vegetable, besides forming {in important and 
profitable article to the market gardener, who always 
rBnds a ready sale for it in the markets of this 
^country, will also enhance the reputation of the 
gardener, who (where there is a range of houses) 
-famishes this delicate vegetable in the greatest per- 
fection, nearly the year round. Such was the case 
daring some years of the author's practice, and 
most likely the same is done by many eminent garw 
deners of the present day. 

The following mode of culture is recommended 
for the first raising of plants for an early crop, in 
4my of the departments before mentioned (but 
more particularly for the pine stove), by which 
culture they are prevented from being drawn up 
weakly, as they frequently are in the stove, during 
the dreary months of November and December 
After this first sowing, a sufiiciency of plants may 
be raised for a succession in pots or pans in any of 
the houses, where the heat is kept up to 55^ or 
upwards. 

About Michaelmas prepare a bed of good hot 
dung, about two feet thick, well put together, and 
six inches wider than a one-light frame> which will con- 
tain a number of plants. When the bed is finished^ 
the frame and light must be put on ; and if much 
steam rises, air must be given. In the course of two 
or three days, the surface of the bed is to be levelled, 
and a quantity of light rich soil put into the frame 
to the depth of six or eight inches. As soon as the 
mould has felt the warmth of the bed, it should be 
Aioely levelled for the purpose of sowing the seed,— ^ 



1S8 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

scatter it pretty thickly on the surface, and cover it 
with full an inch of the same sort of soil, and finish 
by beating it down lightly with the back of a spade. 
Should the weather prove sharp, a little litter laid 
round the outside of the bed, will be the means 
of keeping in th^e heat, and also of forwarding the 
plants. In the course of a week, or when it is ob- 
served that the plants have fully expanded their first 
rough leaves, they will be of sufficient growth for 
planting in pots ; the sooner this can be done the 
better. The pots are to be about the size of 24 to 
the cast ; long narrow troughs, like boxes, are also 
useful for this purpose. 

Previous to the mould being put in the pots, he^ 
the bottoms of each should be covered with an incL 
or so of well consumed dung. They arei then to 
be half filled with soil similar to that in which the- 
seed was sown ; when, after taking the plants care- 
fully up from the seed-bed, four should be set in 
each pot, distributing the roots towards the centre, 
and the plants in a sloping direction towards the 
edge : aft^r covering the roots with about an inch 
of mould, a little water ia given, in the tepid state, aft 
b^ore advised. The pots, &e^ may then be placed 
in any cold part of the stove for two or three days^ 
and afterwards set on sKelves or flues where there i» 
a vaeaney for them ; but the nearer to the glass the 
better. If they are placed on a flue of much heat, it 
will be necessary, to prevent any bad consequences, 
to set the pots on boards, resting on bricks or tiles. 

. After the plants are observed to break freely, an 
additional quantity of mould should be put into eack 
po^ so as nearly to fill it up. This earthings wiA 



KIDNEY BEAN. 1S9 

iHoderate and frequent waterings, according to the 
lieat of the house and state of the weather, wiU 
occasion the plants to blossom freely, and rapidly 
bring theni into a bearing state. If any start their 
shoots too luxuriantly or of unequal lengths, they 
should be stopped at the second or third joints, 
which will cause the beans to set the better, and 
j^oduce a more regular crop. 

Where there is a number of forcing houses, and 
a continued succession of this pulse is required, seed 
should be sown every three weeks, in pots or pans^ 
as before hinted. 

There is an insect (the Thrips) which too fre- 
quently attacks the kidney bean in stoves, and other 
early worked houses, during the winter : it chieflr 
arises from the dry aad warm state of the air. Thi 
only remedy the author practised to stop their 
progress and prevent further depredations, was to 
sprinkle frequently the flues, when warm, with water; 
But the best and most certain destroyer of these 
insects is fumigation ; for as the heat of the sun 
advances, the insects, if not prevented, will incr^ise 
abo. 

Kidney beans have been successfully raised on 
dung hot-beds ; but on such they are a precarious 
crop, and it is useless to attempt it in the midst of 
winter ; but in flued pots, the same as recommended 
for growing early cucumbers, there have been good 
crops produced early in the spring. In using such 
a pot for this purpose, the outside linings and the 
covering on the tiles should be the same as advised 
for the cucumber, except that six or eight inches of 
good mould must be laid over the latter, which 



140 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

being levelled and the heat having arisen, shallow 
drills should be drawn from the front to the back of 
the pit at about a foot apart, and the seed (the small 
Negro) dropped at two or three inches distant. Cover 
them lightly with earth, and keep the lights nearly 
dose until the plants b^n to break ground, at which 
time air should be given, and if worked by a thermo* 
meter, the heat should be kept up by the linings from 
fifty to sixty degrees, and from that height gradually 
to seventy* five, which will finally bring the beans to 
perfection, with attention to air and water. During 
their growth a little mould should be drawn up on 
each side of the rows, and if there is not sufficient 
within the frame, a little extra must be added ; and 
unless the weather is uncommonly severe, heavy 
covering wiU not be necessary; the principal matter 
is to keep up a proper degree of heat by renewing 
the linings. The tops of a few of the leading 
«hoots of the plants being pinched ofi*, will throw 
them (as before observed) into a more regular 
state of growth and bearing. A new crop sown 
about every three weeks will keep up a succession : 
those sown at the beginning of April will last to 
the middle or end of June ; when they will be suc- 
ceeded by the early half-forced crops in the open 
ground. 

28. LEEK. — Allium, 

Allium, — Porrum. The generic name of Allium 

.is given to the leek as a branch of the onion family; 

the original name, Porrum^ is, like others in the 

Linnaean system, made a specific, from the character 

of the flower. 



LEEK. Hi 

The leek is a native of Switzerland, whence it 
i¥as procured and distributed to other parts of 
lEurope. It was cultivated in this country, and par* 
ticularly in Wales, as we read in history, at a very 
early period. The Welshmen still continue to 
i^ear leeks on their patron St. David's day, in com- 
memoration of a victory which they obtained over 
the Saxons in the sixth century, and which they 
attribute to the leeks they wore by order of St^ 
David, to distinguish themselves in Uie battle. 

Leeks are a wholesome and certainly a nutritious 
vegetable, and, from their mild qualities^ are pre* 
ferred by many families for their soups to onions. 

There are two varieties of this plant at present 
under cultivation. 

1. The Narrow-leaved, nearly superseded (except 
in some countries) by the next, which is far su->~ 
perior to it. 

2. Broad-leaved or London Leek, so called from 
the preference given to it in the London markets, 
which it highly deserves. It was first obtained by 
a gardener in Essex many years ago. A gentleman 
from the West Indies having observed a plantation 
of leeks near London, toM the author it put him in 
mind of the young sugar canes in that country, to 
which he said they bore a great similitude. 

Culture. — The soil in which the leek is planted 
should be the best the kitchen garden affords, and 
previously well manured and worked up, a full 
spade in depth. In any open spot of light rich 
ground, the first or second week in March, the seed 
should be sown rather thinly ; otherwise the plants 
will come up in clusters, and require to be thinned 



142 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

out. After the seed is sown it should be beaten in: 
widi the head of a rake, and the bed afterwards re- 





gularly, but lightly, raked. An ounce of seed wiUKT Ml 
produce a great number of plants. When grown 
six or eight inches high, they will be of sufficien( 
Mse to plant out ; for which purpose a good piece o( 
ground should be chosen, in which, after being wi 
broke up a full spade in depth, deep drills must 
drawn to receive the plants ; if more then one row, 
a foot apart. When ready, the plants are to be taki 
up from the seed bed, and after their tops and rool 
are moderately shortened, planted (first giving theii 
root a gentle twist in the drill) about nine h 
asunder. If the ground or weather is dry, a little 
water will be necessary. When the plants are ob** 
served to be in a growing state, the ground shouldL 
be hoed and levelled round them : by frequent hoeing 
and keeping the ground clear of weeds, they will at- 
tain a useful mature size early in autumn. On the 
approach of hard weather a parcel may be taken up 
and laid under cover in dry sand, for winter use. 

29. LETTUCE. — Lactuca. 

Lactuca sativa^ — the former title, from the Latin 
word lac, was given to this plant on account of the 
milky juice with which it abounds; the English 
name, lettuce, is a corruption of its botanic term 
Lactuca : many old writers spelt it lectuce. 

The lettuce may be said to be a native of the four 
quarters of the world, but the finest was originally 
procured from Egypt, Aleppo, and the island of 
Cos, belonging to the Turks. From that island 
oar finest lettuce, Cos, takes its name» as do all 



LETTUCE. 14S 

Others of upright growth, whether they come from 
Ihat country or any other. 

Few or no lettuces, as far as we can trace, were 
cultivated in this country before the early reign of 
Elizabeth, 1562, who^ as before observed, was ob^ 
liged to send to Holland for salads and other vege-* 
tables. In a few years after the above date, as 
gardening Was getting more out of its infancy, 
many varieties of the lettuce were cultivated by some 
of the market gardeners in fhe vicinity of London> 
and above seventy years ago the author recollects 
seeing fine Cos lettuce sold about London streets* 
Dunng the last century, from the care bestowed 
on its cultivation^ this vegetable has been progres* 
sively improving, and some of the finest lettuces 
may be seen in the full season in most of the prin- 
cipal markets throughout the kingdom. 

Some good qualities are assigned to the lettuce. 
For instance, it is cooling and soporific; so that 
in the decline of age, which is naturally wakeful^ 
the use of lettuce is recommended. 

Lettuce is emollient and easy of digestion, but 
not very nutritious. But though lettuces are very 
good for persons of strong stomachs and good di« 
gestion, they are injurious to cold, weak tempera- 
ments, as well as to persons of a melancholic dis** 
position ; and) except they are used for a medicinal 
purpose, they are more wholesome in summer than 
in winter. Lettuce, in many instances, allayed 
thirsty and the fumes of wine; and is, altogethei^ 
the best vegetable of the salad kind grown in the 
open ground. 

Many are the varieties which have been intro» 



H4? THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

daced and cultivated in this country since the mid- 
dle of the last century. 

The following sorts have been cultivated by the 
author, which he presumes to say are not exceeded 
by any of the present day : — 

First, the Cos, being of an upright growth, 

1. White Cos 1 both excellent for the main crop 
. 2, Green Ditto J in summer, 
r S. Green or Egyptian Cos (black seed), a lettuce 
of the greatest utility in dry seasons. Not being i^t 
to run to seed like the two former, it should there- 
fore always be sown either with one or both of^ 
them ; it is of a hardy nature, and stands the winter 
nearly as well as the next variety. 

4. Brown or Bath Cos, a good hardy lettuce to ^ 
stand the winter in the open ground. There im% 
two varieties, the dwarf and tall ; the dwarf is th^ 
best, and hearts much better and sooner than the 
pther, and is less apt to run to seed in a dry season^ 
.- 5. Brighton Cos. This lettuce was strongly re- 
commended to the author by Mr. W. Rogers, who 
considers it of first-rate quality and form. From 
the specimens which the author has seen of it, he 
pronounces it excellent 

6. Florence Cos, very large and fine when well 
turned up, which, however, takes a long time to 
accomplish. It has a peculiarly pleasant crisp taste, 
and from its lateness will be found a most useful * 
lettuce, when others are running fast to seed. It re^ 
4)uires a strong, light, rich, sandy soil, as its growth 
is but indifferent, though it be frequently watered. 

7* Spotted or Aleppo Cos. This lettuce, in moist 
•Measons, and planted in a stcoii^ rich soil, will be 



8. Brown Silicea. 

9. White Silicea. 



LBTTUCX. 145 

<^rably fine^ and a few may be planted for a 
ihsjige and succession. In light soils and dry 
ummers it runs too quickly to seed, before being 
>roperly cabbaged. 

These two varieties of let- 
tuce are esteemed the best 
for stewing, particularly 
the white ; they are rather 
too coarse for salads. 
There are three other sorts of Cos lettuce in cal- 
tivation ; the Paris, Golden, and Dwarf Siberian, 
Hi very good, and can be planted occasionally as 
BXtra crops for the sake of variety, succession, &c. 
The following are such as are generally called 
cabbage lettuce, being more or less of a flat surface. 
. 10. Brown Dutch, — a well-known lettuce, hardy, 
md resists the severity of the winter ; it is almost 
equal to the Hammersmith variety. There is ano- 
ther variety with yellow seed, of late introduction ; 
it is a good lettuce, and, in crispness, superior to 
the brown. 

11. Imperial Cabbage Lettuce. 1 
• 12. Grand Admimble Lettuce. J ^^^ "^ *« ^°«''* 
cabbage lettuces we have for salads during the sum- 
mer months. They heart well, and continue longer in 
use than any other of the cabbage lettuce varieties. 
13; Large White Cabbage Lettuce, — serviceable ; 
turns in well, and withstands the drought of sum« 
iner, as well as the best of these varieties. 

14. Marseilles, — similar in properties to the Flo- 
rence, requires a strong rich soil. 

15. Malta. The seed of this sort was given to 
the author bj a gentleman from tbat V^^dikdi* \\. 

L 



146 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

produces uncommonly large beads, rather of a 
Ming nature, but the blanched parts are crisp, an^ 
of a pleasant taste ; it has not that bitterness whicC 
others are liable to. To have tiiis lettuce in pe: 
fection in the early part of summer, it should b- 
30 wn on a slight heat in the beginning of Marc 
and afterwards transplanted in a cool rich spot (^b 
ground, at full eighteen inches apart. 

16. Dutch Forcing Cabbage Lettuce (rathe:i 
scarce). More will be said under this head when 
treating of the Dutch method of forcing it ; which, 
perhaps, will be rather new to many gardeners of 
the present day. 

There are also the Tennis-ball, Large Mogul, 
(md Drum-head, cabbage lettuces, all good tried 
sorts, and in general estimation for culinary pm> 
poses. 

17* Hammersmith Hardy Green. , An old in« 
habitant, and a most useful lettuce. ' 

Culture, — Few vegetables for culinary and other 
purposes require a more continued succession of 
sowings, partly throughout the year, than lettuces, 
either in the open ground, or on heat, for forcing. 
This last matter has been but slightly hinted at, by 
most authors who have hitherto written on culinary 
vegetables. 

The soil best adapted for the growth of lettuce 
is a light rich sandy loam, previously well manured, 
and worked to the depth of at least . a foot ; but 
eighteen inches is better. Should the subsoil or 
strata be more moist than dry, the better it will be^ 
saving much labour in watering, &c. 

As it will take but a. &m«i\!L ^Vol ol ^iEO\md to gnm 



LETTUCE. 147 

ttuce to supply most families^ a bed thirty feet 
Dg and four broad will generally produce a suf- 
sient supply while they are good, in the early part 

summer ; besides, what may be raised by scat- 
ring a few seeds among the more, permanent crops, 

onions, carrots, &c., will give a' full supply. 

About the first or second week in March a piece 
ground should be prepared to sow the seed, 
ther in beds or broad cast (beds are the most 
mTenient). If the ground has been previously 
dged up, which is quickly done by throwing a 
ght and left spit of earth together, it should be 
igularly laid down, and properly levelled : should 

require to be dug up^ the same attention must 
e given. When the ground is ready, the sooner 
le seed is sown the better. A fine day should 
e selected for this purpose ; and, if the ground is 
ry, it may be lightly trod in, or otherwise beatea 
own with the head of the rake, and afterwards 
^larly raked over. A little earth thrown over 
16 seed from out of the alleys will cause the plants 

> come the stronger. 

When the plants are fully up, they must be 
tinned out with a two -inch hoe ; and after they are 
[Mierved to touch each other, a final thinning should 
e ^ven, of three inches or more apart, according 

> the sort grown : and here the author has to re- 
lark, that if the plants from the second thinning, 
scording to the quantity likely to be wanted, are 
(anted out in drill, the same distance as those in 
le seed-bed, this proceeding will cause a continued 
lecession ; and should the same be dene with the 
iS^ar&it sowings throughout the sumixi^ (^«^^ 

L 2 



148 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

being required), every three weeks, from the mid( 
of May to the beginning of August, and treated 
mentioned, there will be no want of fine lettuc^^ 
bearing in mind, that during very hot and ^ » ■ 
seasons lettuce should be frequently watered. Ai^mi 
here another remark may be made, in respect «7^ 
the " grubs " (which are rather fond of lettuce ^ 
that an early and frequent stirring of the esrtb 
round the plants will be a preventive, and often an . 
antidote against their depredations, from their being 
80 frequently disturbed. 

Such is the mode of culture for a principal crop 
of lettuce, by sowing in the open ground* But 
instead of mowing large breadths, the market gar- 
deners round the great metropolis plant m^y acres 
of land from plants previously raised in a small 
compass. 

The method for raising plants for the above pmr- 
pose being rather peculiar, and as it has been but 
very slightly glanced at by writers on gardening, 
the following information may be of use to thQ 
young horticulturist. 

About the middle of September, in some shel- 
tered spot of rich ground, a frame may be set on 
the surface, facing the warmest aspect, and which is 
afterwards to be filled with earth from the outside, 
if not too wet, to within two or three inches of the 
top, taking care that it slopes with the frame. After 
being levelled, the seed of either the white or ^teea 
Cos should be sown rather thick ; and, after being 
lightly beaten down with a spade, over the whole 
there should be a quarter of an inch of light ** pure'* 
loam (if it can be had) sifted. The lights f^ 



y 
LETTUCfi. HS 

ftfterwards to be put on, and kept close till the plants 
begin to appear, when a little air may be given, and 
Vhen they are fairly up, in mild open weather, 
during the day, the light may be drawn entirely off; 
and, as a most essential matter, rain must be kept 
from the plants as much as possible. In the frame 
they are to continue, with occasional coverings, in 
very severe weather, till the end of February or be- 
ginning of March, when the ground (little or much) 
should be well prepared for their reception, and the 
plants set full a foot apart each way. As soon as 
the hoe can be safely admitted, let that useful instru- 
ment be set to work, for reasons already assigned. 
By a similar method, the markets in London are 
supplied with the finest lettuce in May and June. 

Lettuce to stand the winter under warm walls^ 
borders, frames, &c., "such as the Brown Cos, Green 
Cos, and Brown Dutch, and Hammersmith Green, 
may be sown from the middle to the end of August, 
tmd when the plants are a good size, which they will 
be in the beginning of October, they should be 
planted out either in frames or in any sheltered spot 
there is to spare. The author has got the Imperial 
Cabbage Lettuce to stand throughout the winter^ 
and remain uncommonly fine till May. 

Should it so happen, which, however, very rarely 
occurs, that the out^door lettuce is cut off by the 
Bcverity of the weather, recourse must be had to 
sowing on a slight heat in February, when the 
plants, after being properly hardened, arc planted 
oat early in sgring. Of all the hardy lettuce none 
exceeds the Hammersmith, which may be sprinkled 
with either sowings of spinach. 

L 3 



150 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Having given the cultivation of the letta< 
throughout the year in the open ground^ in all i 
points and bearings, there still remains a matter 
be communicated, which has been but little notie 
by writers on gardening (not even by the ingenious 
Miller). What the author alludes to is the forciii{ 
of the cabbage lettuce, a peculiar sort, which thi 
Dutch gardeners have fbr that purpose, and whic 
can be had from most of the principal seedsmen i 
this country. The method of forcing the abov^e 
sort of lettuce is as follows : — As it is principally 
throughout the winter and in the early part o/ 
spring that such lettuces are in request, preparation 
must be made towards the end of October, or the 
beginning of November, for sowing the seed and 
making a bed. Any description of hot-house at 
work, if there be one, will be preferable for rais- 
ing a sufficiency of plants, which most likely will 
not exceed three or six lights ; but more or less, 
according to the wants of the family. A calculation 
may be readily made from the number of squares 
in each light : where there is a regular and annual 
forcing, if the squares of glass are an inch or so 
larger every way than the usual size, these will be 
much better, for reasons hereafter assigned. 

Should there be no conveniency of a hot-house, 
recourse must be had to sowing the seed on a slight 
hot-bed, about two feet thick, of well-prepared 
dung. A one-light frame of the larger size will 
grow a sufficiency of plants, from seed^ for five or 
six lights. After the heat has been up a day of 
two, six or eight inches of rich light mould should 
be put on the bed, on which, after being levelleda 



LETTUCE. 151 

the seed may be sown moderately thick, and lightly 
covered with mould ; the lights are then to be put 
on, and kept close till the plants begin to appear, 
when a little air can be admitted, and some outside 
protection afforded, if found necessary^ as in that 
bed they remain until finally planted out. If a 
few pots or pans are sown with seed, and placed in 
some, cool part of a pine-stove, or such like place, 
some trouble will be saved, and it will equally 
answer the purpose. However^ in either way, as 
soon as the plants appear, preparation should be 
made for making a bed; for which purpose a quan- 
tity of good hot dung, sufficient for a three-light 
frame, must be procured, and turned over two or 
three times before working it up into the bed. A 
third part of recently collected leaves, mixed with 
the dung, will cause a more steady and regular 
heat than if it were made up without them. This 
being in readiness, the bed may be made up full 
three feet high (in a more advanced season three 
feet six inches), and well put together, of which hints 
have been given in the early part of the work. The 
frame and lights are put on to draw up the heat; 
and when the bed is found to be in proper order, 
iirhich perhaps will be in four or five days, the sur- 
face should be lightly beaten down with the back 
of a spade, and some good rich mould (more dry 
than moist) laid over the whole, to the depth of 
two or three inches. When that is done, small hil- 
locks should be made under each square, so as 
nearly to touch the glass ; for as the bed is likely 
to sink somewhat, there will be sufficient space left 
for the plants to grow in and turn their leaves. 

L 4 



152 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Supposing by this time the plants are in good o^ 
der for transplanting, either in the pots or the frames 
' the hillocks should be a little flattened, and a plant 
set in the centre of each : some may perhaps touch 
the glass; but that is of no consequence ; for, if they 
are of a genuine sort, they will turn themselves to 
their own centre ; and their closeness to the glass will 
aid them therein. A little water (previously placed 
under cover) should be given at the time of plant' 
ing ; land afterwards the moisture arising from the 
bed vfoll be sufficient : but if this is heavy, and the 
weather so likewise, the first opportunity must be 
taken to give air, so as to get the plants in a dry 
state, as a preventive against the canker to which 
Uiey are so liable during the winter season, and the 
more so from the almost continued closeness of the 
lights, for the benefit of the plants. 

But little more is necessary except the picking of 
decayed leaves and making good any failures tiiat 
* may occur. For this purpose a few lettuce should 
be planted in smaU pots, as such can be readily 
turned out if required, and will not ndss their 
moving. 

So far on the interior work of the bed : — what is 
wanted to be done outside will chiefly depend on the 
state of the bed and weather ; but, at all events, it 
will be the best and surest method to apply a lining 
of dry litter, about eighteen inches thick, round the 
bed, after having been made up about a fortnight* 
In respect of the top covering, it should be suf- 
ficient to keep out the frost : and it is of conse" 
quence to allow as little wet as possible to enter the 
frame. 



LOVE APPLE. 15S 

In about three weeks after the plants are put out, 
Ihe spaces left between should be filled up with 
mould, similar to that which formed the hillocks. 
After pressing it gently down with the hand, the 
lights may be kept almost continually close ; and, 
within two months after the seed is sown, there 
probably will be some well-cabbaged lettuce for use. 
Where a continual supply is wanted, a bed should 
l>e made every month until April, the culture vary- 
ing according to the season. 

Pits have been recommended for the cultivation 
of this kind of lettuce ; and the author thinks, with 
judicious management, they might succeed, if filled 
up to the curb on which the frame rests with short 
wood, chopped turf, &c. ; but, as he never raised 
lettuce by this means, he cannot speak practically 
about it. 

30. LOVE APPLE — Solanum. 

Solanum lA/copersicum, — The botanic name sO' 
Janum is derived from its being a species of the 
nightshade (a poisonous herb); lycopersicum sig- 
nifies the wolf's peach. 

The Love Apple, more generally known in Eng- 
land by the name of tomato (the Spanish name), is 
a native of South America ; and was early intro- 
duced by the Spaniards into Europe, and by the 
French into this country in the year 1596. 

Our forefathers would have shuddered to have 
observed the fruit eaten with such avidity as it is 
by many person's at the present day ; but so it is, 
that the fruit and root of one of our mo8\. ^oSsm^xl^ 



154? THE vegetabl/ cultivator. 

ous species of herbs, not only gratify the taste^ bat 
also afford a useful food for man. 

As to the medicinal or nourishing qualities of 
the love apple little can be said ; but for culinary 
purposes it b in much esteem for its pleasant acidity 
in soups ; it makes an excellent sauce for fish^ meat, 
Sec, ; an agreeable catsup and pickle. It forms an 
elegant side dish for the table, when dressed in the 
following manne^. The largest and best fruit should 
be chosen fully ripened ; cut them through exactly 
in the middle, so as to have a top and bottom ; they 
are then to be broiled, for which a few minutes wiU , 
suffice, keeping principally the inside uppermost, 
to preserve their juice. When done, a small bit of 
fresh butter, pepper, &c. should be put on each, 
when, after again being placed a few minutes 
before the fire, they will be, as our old herbalist, 
Gerard, said, above 150 years ago, a dainty dish for 
a queen. 

The following is an excellent receipt for making 
tomato sauce. Take the tomatoes when ripe, and 
bake them till they become quite soft ; then scoop 
them out with a teaspoon, and rub the pulp through 
a sieve. To the pulp put as much Chili vinegar as 
will bring it to a proper thickness, with salt to your 
^te. Add to every quart half an ounce of ^urlic 
and one ouQce of shallots, both sliced very thin. 
Boil it one quarter of an hour: then strain, and take 
out the garlic and shallots. After standing till it is 
quite cold, put the sauce into stone bottles, and let 
it stand a few days before it is corked up. If when 
the bottles are open the sauce should appear to be 
in a fermenting state, put some more salt« and boil 



LOVE APPLE. 155 

it over again. The sauce, when poured out for use^ 
should have the thickness of rich cream. 

The different uses of this fruit for culinary and. 
other purposes are rapidly on the increase. Its 
cultivation is extensive, particularly by one eminent 
gardener, Willmott, of Isleworth, near London. By 
training the plants against a bank, he had gathered 
in one season, from 600 plants, 400 half sieves 
(three will make a bushel) of ripe fruit for market 

There is but one variety (the old original red) 
worth cultivating ; the yellow is not much noticed ; 
and the cherry and pear-shaped, of French extrac* 
tion, are of little worth. 

Culture, — The Tomato is raised from seed, which 
should be sown about the end of March, either on 
a slight hot-bed, or in a large pot or pan, according 
to the quantity likely to be wanted, a score of plants 
producing many scores of fruit. When the plants 
are up and two or three inches high, they are to be 
transplanted into small pots (two in each), and after- 
wards plunged in the bed whence they were taken, 
or on any other slight heat, and kept rather close 
until well rooted, when air should be admitted, and 
so increased as to harden the plants for their being 
finally planted out at the end of May or beginning 
of June, either against a south wall or pales, or 
against a warm sloping bank of earth. 

The plants can be readily turned out of the pot8» 
when a little water will be all they require for the 
* present. As soon as they have formed leaders ot 
half a foot or so in length, if against a wall, they 
should be regularly trained up, and any superfluous 
l)ranch cut out : these, however, will be Wt i'^'^t 



156 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

as the more branches there are trained the more 
fruit will be produced. If placed against a bank^^^ 
when the branches are regularly trained or laic 
out, they should be pegged down; and in th< 
course of the summer a few of the most vigoroufi^. 
may be stripped, and all useless leaves and strag'^-'; 
gling shoots cut off. 

31. MARJORAM. — Origanum. 

Origanumy the botanic name of the Marjoram 
was given to it on account of its agreeable fra-^ 
grance, and in allusion to its place of growths 
There are several varieties ; but only iwo are usedl 
for culinary purposes. 

1. O. Onitesy the Pot Marjoram, is a native of 
Sicily and the southern part of Greece. It is a hardy 
perennial, and was first introduced into Britain about 
the year 1759. It is used as a seasoning for soups. 

O. Majoranay the Sweet Knotted Marjoram, is a 
native of Cyprus and Candia. It is also found in 
Italy, Spain, and Portugal : from the latter country 
the English first obtained the seed, in the year 
1573. From Italy we annually receive the seed, as 
the climate of England is not of sufficient warmth 
to ripen it. This variety is called knotted from the 
flowers coming in globular knots round the joints 
of the stem, and which contain the seed. The sweet 
marjoram has a sweet pleasant smell, and a waring 
aromatic, bitterish taste. It is used, like the pot 
maijoram, as a seasoning for soups ; and when 
mixed with food it is said to correct flatulencies^ 
imd to be useful in nervous complaints. 



MARJORAM. 157 

Culture, -^The common or pot marjoram, being 
a- perennial, is easily propagated by parting the 
roots into small tufts, in the early part of spring, 
and planting them in three or four feet beds, in any 
light dry soil, at a foot apart ; or they can be made 
an edging to borders; and then they must be planted 
at the distance of six inches instead of one foot. 

If the pot maijoram is wanted for drying, it should 
be cut when in full bloom, as at that time all aro- 
matic herbs possess their greatest strength and 
virtue. When cut, it should be laid in a shady 
place to dry ; and, when the leaves feel crisp, put 
up in paper bags for use, and in a place where it 
will be clear of dust. 

The sweet or knotted marjoram being rather a 
tender annual, if wanted early, the seed should be 
9own on a dight heat towards the end of March ; 
if otherwise, on a warm border of light rich earth 
about the middle of April ; the plants to be after- 
wards thinned to the distance of a few inches, and 
left to grow for use. Those raised on heat (after 
iiaving been hardened to the weather) should be 
planted out, either in a patch in the open ground 
or in pots. When planting in pots, use the size called 
32, and put two or three plants in each ; a reserve 
may then be made nearly throughout the winter, by 
keeping them in some warm shed, or in a green- 
bouse, where they will at times give out a most 
agreeable and fragrant perfume. 

32. MARYGOLD.—. Calendula, 
Calendula Officinalis, the cultivated or common 
Marygold. Calendula is supposed to be derived 



158 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

from CalendxB^ the Latin for the first day of every^ 
month, because it continues a long time in flower. 

The marygold is a native of the south of Europe^ 
and is said to have been cultivated in this country" 
prior to the year 1573. 

' Numerous medical virtues were formerly attri- 
buted to this herb, which have now lost their credit. 
It is principally used in the form of tea, and is 
sometimes given in agues; and the author haa 
known instances where it has succeeded in alleviate 
ing that distressing complaint. The florets of the 
ray are the parts used for culinary purposes ; they 
are boiled in broths and soups ; and by many the 
flavour of them is much admired. In Holland, 
large quantities of the flowers are annually dried 
for soups and broths, and sold in the shops at the 
rate of a penny per bunch. They are greatly 
esteemed by all ranks of persons in that country. 

From the many plots of ground that may be seen 
planted with marygolds in the vicinity of London^ 
their cultivation in this country seems upon the 
increase* The author once saw a considerable piece 
of ground near London covered with these plants. 
They were then in full blossom, and formed a mosi 
brilliant spectacle, resembling a sheet of spangled 
gold: the ground was exactly suited for them, 
being light, sandy, and not too rich. 

Culture* — Few culinary vegetables require less 
aid in their culture than the pot marygold, as it will 
propagate itself by seed for years, even if the ground 
is frequently disturbed ; but it has been remarked 
that the flowers from self-sown seed, in the same 
spoty for a length of time, are not so large and 



MELON. 159 

strong as those produeed from annual sowings ;l 
therefore, to have the flowers in their greatest per- 
feetion, the seed should be sown about the begin- 
ning of Aprils in any light soil, either in a bed, to 
be hoed out to six or eight inches apart, or in a 
patch, and afterwards transplanted out to a similar 
distance. Their after culture only requires the 
hoe to keep them clear of weeds. The plants 
soon come into flower ; and when it is observed that 
the blossoms are fully expanded, they should be 
gathered in a dry day, divested of their outer green 
leaves, and spread on a cloth, in a dry airy room, 
where, after having been a few days with frequent 
turnings, they will be in good order for putting up, 
either in paper bags or in drawers, for use. > 



33. MELON. — CucuMis, 

Melo was the original name of the Melon^ but 
according to the sexual system of the great Linnaeus^ 
(who, as before observed, has done more for the 
advancement of practical and scientific botany than 
any man before or since his time), it has the seem- 
ing inconsistency of making the melon a variety of 
tiie cucumber. Such questions it is very difficult 
to solve: nature, however, is her own best inter- 
preter, and will, no doubt, in the course of time, 
recondle this and many other apparent incon- 
s»tencies. 

The introduction of the melon into a work solely 
intended for the cultivation of vegetables, may, to 
some readers, seem an impropriety; but when it 



160 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

comes to be considered how nearly the culthratioii 
of this fruit is allied to the kitchen garden, especiafiy 
in its earliest days, the impropriety will be lessenedi 
and the gardener will derive an advantage frtnq 
having the work so frequently under his eye. 

The native places of growth of melons are Tariouir 
They have been found growing wild in sundry 
plains in many parts of the East Indies ; and, we are 
informed by Miller, they were so plentiful on the 
borders of Persia that a horse-load was sold for a 
French crown, 4«. 2d, 

The melon was cultivated many years in Italy, 
before it was introduced into this country, which 
took place about the year 1520. Its culture im 
some years was but imperfectly understood. But 
what will not perseverance and attention accom- 
plish ? For the last century and more, many of the 
gardeners of Great Britain have equalled the best 
in Europe in the cultivation of the melon. 

The title of musk melon, so often mentioned by 
old authors, was given to this fruit, soon after its 
introduction, from its agreeable scent. The flesh 
of a well grown melon is delicious, and does not 
offend the most tender stomach. In England it is 
generally sent to table as one of the leading fruits 
(such as the Prince, the Pine Apple, or the King) 
-for the dessert, where it is eaten with sugar, ginger, 
^c as fancy directs. In France, and some other 
parts of Europe, the melon is frequently served up 
at dinner as a sauce for boiled meat ; but the author 
imagines it would not be agreeable in this state to 
an English palate. 

The mediciijal qualities of the melon, principally 



MELOK. 161 

lie in the seed, ¥!4iich are of a cooling nature^ but 
are seldom used. 

That the melon is somewhat nutritious^ has been 
proved by its furnishing the lower orders in the 
south of Europe with n principal part of their food. 
But as the people of that part of the world are not 
particular in the choice of sorts, little reliance can 
be placed on the seed which they transmit to us. 
With them the cucumber, the gourd, or vegetable 
marrow, the Pompkin melon, &c^ most likely grow 
in one field, where they certainly do harm, by con- 
taminating each other. 

So far on the native country of the common or 
cultivated melon, of which more will be said when 
the most esteemed varieties are described. Pre* 
viously to the descriptions, a few words will be said 
on the water melon (Cucurbita citrullus) which is 
made a species of the gourd. The Botanic name is 
derived from its growth, and from the watery nature 
of its fruit, which is in the highest estimation in the 
warmest parts of the four quarters of the world. 

The water melon is a native of all the quarters 
dbore mentioned, and ia highly appreciated in 
Egypt, China, and the East and West Indies, where 
it is cultivated to a great extent, on account of its 
grateful coolness and delicious flavour. The fiesh 
is BO succulent that it melts in the mouth, and itn 
central pulp is fluid, like the cocoa-nut, and may be 
suoked or poured out through a hole in the rind, 
forming a most refreshing beverage to the inhabit- 
ants of warm countries. In England^ the few that 
are raised, are highly esteemed in very warm seasons, 
while their admis3ibility in cases of fever and ip^ 

M 



162 THE Vegetable Cultivator. 

flammatory Complaints, adds greatly to their worth; 
Such are the qualities of the water melon ; and it is 
much to be regretted, that their cultivation meets 
with difficulties in this country, the plants requir- 
ing larger frames for their rambling growth than are 
generally used, a continual but moderate bottom 
heat, and, above all, a regular and warm atmosphere, 
to the height of 70° or 80°. 

What is here said of this salubrious fruit, may 
act as a stimulus to the young horticulturist to study 
its culture, which, in the early part, is similar to 
that of the common melon. The soil should be a 
good light loam^ not over rich. The shoots require 
but few stoppings, after the first or second time ; air 
is ta be given occasionally, but the heat kept up as 
high as mentioned; and the plants must have fre- 
quent but thin sprinklings of water. With such 
a mode of culture, the author succeeded, as often 
as he attempted their cultivation. 

Description of the Sorts recommended. — The 
Varieties intended to be described are but few, but 
these few have stood the test of time, and are pro- 
nounced good. Of these, the first upon the list is 
the Cantaleupe, a melon the most esteemed in every 
^art of Europe. It takes the name of Cantaleupe 
^from a village within a few miles of Rome, where it 
was grown for many centuries, £Uid thence distri- 
buted to difierent parts of the surrounding king- 
tloms. In England it is called the Rock Cantaleupe, . 
from the outer coat being full of large warts, and, 
according to the sort and cultivation, it weighs from, 
four to ten, fifteen, or more pounds. The fruit is in.' 
general round, rather flat, of a very solid substimce^ 



MELON. 16S 

and when perfectly fine, without any cavity, which 
is known by knocking on it When cut, the flesh 
ahoold be diy, no water running out, but only a 
little dew, and that of a fine red colour. Such are 
the properties of a well-grown Cantaleupe melon, 
whicfay in part, are applicable more or less to every 
oth^r sort, except the lately introduced small Persian 
melons, of which the internal part is almost a fluid, 
and although extremely luscious, &c., they do not 
appear to be of so nutritious a nature. It is a very 
tender fruit, and requires a high state of .warmth to 
bring it to perfection. 

Next to the genuine Cantaleupe, of which there 
are but few varieties, though many are so called^ 
is the Romana, a district in Italy, whence it was 
first introduced into France, and thence again into 
this country, accompanied with '^ too many bad 
ones ; " but some allowance must be made for cul- 
ture and the season, the eflects of which are plainly 
discernible in the Honfleur melon, imported every 
year into this country from France. At and near 
Honfleur, whole villages are employed in their 
cultivation (just as we raise pickling cucumbers in 
our fields) for the supply of Paris, and other great 
towns, where they are consumed by thousands. 
They are generally of an oval form, weighing from 
four to eight or ten pounds each, and, as before 
observed, their good and bad qualities depend upon 
the season, but in the best times they are not highly 
flavoured. 

Having given in the preceding pages a description 
tif the principal fruit, the Cantaleupe^ I shall pro- 
eeed to the other varieties. 

M 2 



164f THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

1. Early Cantaleupe. — Celebrated for its popa- 
laritj and firm flesh. This excellent little melon 
was brought from Portugal about the beginning 
of the last century, by the Honourable Dormer 
Stanhope, and was called the " Dormer " melon for 
many years ; it is the same which Miller describes 
as the Portugal or pocket melon. There was an- 
other introduced about the same time, called the 
Galloway, which answers to the description given by 
the same author of the << Zatte," but the first ac- 
quired the preference. 

The Early Cantaleupe, so called, is nearly round ; 
colour, a yellowish green, rind smooth, and the 
fruit very slightly ribbed, the pulp orange coloured, 
firm, and, when not too early ripened, pleasant^ and 
high flavoured. On the whole, it is an excellent 
fruit for an early season. It is a very prolific 
bearer, generally setting its first show of fruit 
kindly. Should there happen to be two or more set, 
and swelling off equally at the same time, it is a 
sign the plants are in health. 

After what may be called the first crop, is cut, 
if the plants are pruned back to a healthy leader, and 
the surface of the bed refreshed with a little good 
•mould as deep as it will admit, without injuring the 
wood, a second crop is frequently produced, equal, 
if not superior to the first. 

When such pruning takes place, the plants should 
have but little air for a day or two; the mould must 
be kept rather moist by a slight watering, which 
should be done in the morning ; and if the sun 
should shine out clear, the lights must be moderatdy 
shaded; for which purpose a double netting or thin 



MELON. 165 

l^rttnches of .birch are recommended in preference 
%o.matSi 

2. Romana, so called from that part of Italy, 
liefore mentioned. It has been a favourite fruit in 
%fais country for many years. There are two vane- 
ties — the round and oval, both very good : they are 
slightly ribbed ; the rind is smootii> of a«greenish 
ccdour, which changes but little in ripening. The 
author has remarked that the fruit which keeps the 
longest before turning yellow is the best, and gene- 
rally of the finest flavour ; hence the fruit will re- 
quire watching ; and the moment it is observed to 
crack at the stalk, or to emit its fine scent, it should 
be i cut, and taken into the fruit-room till wanted: 
but let it be remarked that after being a few hours 
out of the frame, the sooner it is used the better. 

It is above sixty years since the author first cul- 
tivated this melon, having at that time received the 
seed from an old gardener in the service of General 
Fitzwilliam at Richmond, in Surry, whose house 
was at one time inhabited by Sir Matthew Dicker, 
and where if not the first, at all events the second 
pine-apple was raised in England. The author well 
remembers seeing the remains of the small stove- 
bke place in which it was raised, mouldering away ; 
and though it formed an unsightly object close to the 
pleasure-ground, it was ordered not to be removed* 

S. Scarlet Flesh Rock Cantaleupe, as it may be 
called, is moderately warted ; shape, nearly round, 
and not deeply furrowed ; colour, a mottled green 
and yellow ; fiesh rich, melting, and of a fine scarlet 
colour : though of so melting a nature, it cuts very 
solid. Average weight from three to four pounds* 

M 3 



166 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

It is an early and prolific bearer, and in setting it 
in the early part of the season, attention should be 
given to select those likely to swell off together ; for 
if one sort takes the lead, the others will be rather 
tardy in their growth, until the former are cut. 
This holds good in most eases with the melon, bat 
with none more than the large rock variety. 

Few or no sorts of the melon have gained mate 
prizes than the above, from which a judgment may 
be formed of its worth. The author is one out of 
many, that have gained so great a testimony of 
the merit due to the cultivators; and that, be it 
remembered, in the time of the old school, when 
there were no cheap periodicals to instruct, nor 
penny trumpets to sound the fame of the many im*' 
provements and new discoveries made in the cul* 
ture of this fruit ; and all producing no better crop 
than the author witnessed fifty years ago, when 
plain and practical directions were the order of the 
day. 

That the above fruit is rather more tender than 
the larger kinds of the rock, and other varieties, has 
retarded its cultivation by the young practitioner; 
but with a little close attention in the early part oi 
its growth, and with a regular and moderate bottom 
heat, for which the pit described for the cucumber 
will be found the most eligible for early work, the 
few difficulties there are in the way will be easily 
overcome. 

There is a variety of the scarlet flesh melon, with 
a smooth rind, which the author has heard highly 
extolled in various plaees. It may be so, but as he 
never had it undent cultivation, he cannot speak 



MELOK. 167 

l^Faeticallj about It ; but if the interior of the fruit 
is as good as the rough-rind one described, there 
need be no better, 

4). Orange Cantaleupe^ a charming little melon 
introduced some years ago, by a member of the 
Rutland family. The fruit is small, averaging about 
two pounds, round, and slightly furrowed ; the colour, 
when ripe, is a fine yellow; the. rind, which is rather 
thick, is generally covered with a slight netting ; the 
flesh firm, and tinged with red, of a rich taste and 
high flavour. It is a good bearer, and freely sets 
its fruit three or four at a time ; but these should 
not be left on, as they only impoverish each other. 
The same holds good in all the smaller sorts. 

The above melon is better for a late than an 
early crop, and if any remain towards the end of 
autumn not fully ripe, they may be kept a con* 
siderable time after 1)eing cut, put into net bags, 
and hung up in some warm room, where they will 
ripen gradually, and be found an acquisition to the 
dessert till the end of October. 

5. True Coral Succ&de, an excellent little fruits 
The seed was given to the author, above forty years 
ago, by a gentleman who brought it from Italy, 
The outward appearance of the fruit differs from 
any other sort The author has seen the outside 
covered with a fine velvety down, of a deep olive 
colour, the rind very thin, the flesh firm, of a light 
scarlet colour, and in taste richly flavoured. It is 
a prolific bearer, very free in setting too many fruit 
at a time, which should be thinned to one on each 
runner: in shape it is nearly globular, and will 
keep some time after it is ripe, if laid in a dr^ 

M 4 



16S THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

ift>oin or cellar, which in summer is the best plaee 
foji fruit or vegetabl^. 

6. Green Flesh Melon. — Of this sort of fruit 
the author is acquainted with three varieties ; but 
perhaps there may be more. The one now described 
is nearly round, not very flat» or deeply furrowed ; 
colour, a brownish-white ; flesh not so firm as the 
Cantalupe, but good, and of a deeper green colour 
than some others ; full of juice, which is rich and 
luscious (a predominating character in the green 
flesh varieties), and comes the nearest to the Persiao 
sorts lately introduced. The other two varieties^ 
the one oval and the other netted, partake of all the 
good qualities of the one described. 

The Green Flesh Melon was known in Miller's 
time, and above fifty years ago cultivated by the 
author'; at that time it had fallen into disrepute^ 
from the idea that the softness of its flesh or pulp 
caused flatulency ; hence ginger was ordered to be 
eaten freely with them. This prejudice has been of 
late years wearing ofi^, and they are now by many 
persons highly esteemed. 

The above three varieties are prolific^ and pro- 
duce their fruit early and freely : not above two or 
three fruit should be allowed to swell off at first 
for ripening ; for when in full vigour and health 
they have been known to produce fruit from three 
to five pounds each ; and if there be ten or a dozen 
in each frame, which are generally not of the 
largest size, such a weight of fruit will be fully 
suflicient for the roots to carry, especially if there 
be not a good depth of mould. The limiting of 
the fruit to this quantity will supersede the necessity 



MELON. 169 

^ heaTy waterings^ for the less the plants do without 

is process, the higher is the flavour of the fruit ; 

cuid as this variety of melon loses more flavour by 

Iceeping than it gains, it should be used within 

"^i^enty-four hours aflber it is cut ; and if it be cut 

l>ut a short time before it is wanted, putting it into 

9L basin of cold spring water will add considerably 

to its taste. 

7« Black Rock Cantaleupe. — The name of black 
rock was given to this melon from its outside 
being covered with large black tubercles, resembling 
broken granite. Cantaleupe is a sort of specific 
name, not only to signify whence it came, but also 
its shape, as all the genuine Cantaleupe melons are 
depressed ; that is, the longitudinal diameter is less 
tiian the transverse or cross direction. This is so 
far a certain criterion to judge by. 

Few sorts of melons are more extensively cul- 
tivated in noblemen's and gentlemen's gardens, as 
well as by the most eminent market gardeners in 
the vicinity of London, than the Rock Cantaleupe. 
Its noble size and appearance, joined to its salu- 
brious qualities, procure for it admittance as a first- 
rate fruit for the dessert, in almost every garden 
where good taste predominates. 

According to the culture and first setting of the 
fruit, its size in a great measure varies from five to 
fifteen pounds, and upwards; the latter, however, 
being rare ; but in that excellent periodical, Loudon*s 
Gardener's Magazine, there is an account of two 
very large melons swelling ofl* near the stem of tiie 
plant, and ripened to a high degree of perfection. 
But leaving such cases to chance, either the black 



170 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR* 

or silver rock, when well grown, of five or seveti 
pounds weight is to be preferred. 

The ground colour of this fruit is a light greeH, 
dotted over as before mentioned with various-sized 
warts, becoming partiallj yellow when ripe. The 
flesh is very firm, orange-coloured, and replete with 
moisture of a vinous taste and fine flavour. 

8. Silver Rock Cantaleupe. — This variety is so 
called to distinguish it from the former by its co- 
lour. In quality it is equal, but in shape there is 
some little difibrence, it being less depressed and 
furrowed ; and in general the weight is less, averag- 
ing from flve to seven pounds. It is the most 
proper for a flrst crop of this variety of fruit. 

There is another variety, called the Golden Rock, 
from its colour when ripe. It was extensively cul- 
tivated in Holland by the Dutch and Flemish gar^ 
deners some years back, who at that time excelled 
in their cultivation of this fruit, by their flued pits 
and fine manure, which was principally composed 
of cow's dung (the best being well consumed, 
which takes a few months). The qualities of such 
manure are more of a cooling than heating nature, 
and will be found not over strong if one third 
part be mixed with three of what may be called 
virgin earth of a loamy nature : and if there hap- 
pens to be a good kind of marl in the neighbour^ 
hood, and one fourth or less, is added to the other 
two, this would make as fine a composition as is 
necessary. The author found this to be the case 
during the few years he resided in Cheshire, the 
finest marl county in the kingdom. 

For many years the Dutch gardeners excelled 



MELON. 171 

XQost other countries in the culture of the Caii- 
talupe melon ; but by the perseverance, skill, and 
assiduity of the British and other gardeners ot the 
united kingdoms, they not only emulated the Dutch, 
but at last excelled them in the culture of this fine 
fruit. The following was the author's method of 
practice ; and at that time there were but few better, 
though no doubt many equally good : — 

Before entering on the general culture of this 
fruit, the few following hints may be of service to 
the amateur and the young horticulturist, and 
which will hereafter render a repetition unneces- 
sary. 

The first is that in the old school of gardening 
(which should be noticed in the new),— -much 
stress was laid on the genuineness of the seed, by 
keeping the different sorts as distinct as possible. 
For should an impregnation take place (which cer- 
tainly does in the different varieties of the same 
species), though it may not change the nature of 
the fruit, it certainly alters its taste and flavour. 

The second is the age of the seed, which should 
not be less than two years old ; for though it has 
been known to grow to five times that age, it has 
then been observed to diminish in strength. By 
some authors new seed has been advised to be 
sown ; but this advice could only be meant in cases 
of emergency, when older seed of the same variety 
could not be had. Three or four years is the 
utmost age that is advised for the seed to be kept 
to grow strong plants. 

The third the mould, — and if not such as has 
been recommended, the best the kv\AYie!i-%«s&s:u 



172 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

affords, which being prepared with cow dung, will 
be much preferable to that of horses. The gardenen 
of Holland never fail to collect a quantity every 
year, by which means they are never without it, as 
they find its utility for their large melons, as well 
as for their finest flowers. Should the earth and 
dung be in a proper state, they may be mixed when 
wanted. The earth must be by no means finely 
siftcfd ; the better way is to run it down, and draw 
off the very roughest at the bottom, according to 
the quantity wanted. 

The fourth is to give a sufficient depth of mould; 
according to the sort of melon, for the smaller size 
full twelve inches, and for the larger eighteen. A 
good depth of soil will supersede the necessity of 
heavy waterings, which only cause the earth to run 
into too solid a mass; especially if the soil is 
light, or has been too finely sifted. 

Lastly, shade is recommended to cover the 
glass after the plants have extended their runners, 
and have begun to show fruit, in hot clear days 
throughout the season ; the rays of the sun having 
at such times too powerful an effect on the plants : 
should they happen to be close to the glass, the 
frame must be raised with a brick at each comer, • 
and the open space well secured with a hayband. 
The covering may consist of very thin canvass, net- 
ting, thin branches of birch, or mats, which latter 
the author prepared for the purpose by drawing 
out dther way, every other strip of matting. This 
win be found useful ; and the mats so served will 
IsbI (with care) many seasons. 
..Thmfiflur for the present; but most likely many 



MELON. 173 

^f)re hints will occur in proceeding with the work, 
^ which the melon claims its share, for reasons 
before given. 

Culture. — In warmer climates the melon is raised 
with little or no trouble ; but in Britain it requires 
great attention and expense to rear it : and this 
may be said of every sort of fruit and vegetable 
raised by artificial means ; and to those who cul- 
tivate them may be justly applied the following 
lines: — 

Grudge not ye rich (since luxury must have 
His dainties, and the world's more numerous hal^ 
Lives by contriving delicacies for you), 
Grudge not the cost Ye little know the carea» 
The vigilance, the labour, and the skill. 
That day and night are exercised, and hang 
Upon the ticklish balance of suspense, 
That you may garnish your profuse regales 
With summer fVuit, brought forth by wintry suns : 
Ten thousand dangers lie in wait to thwart 
The progress. 

COWPMI. 

So it is certainly, and never were any lines more 
to the purpose. 

Of late years various have been the methods for 
raising good crops of melons^ by cutting layers, and 
preparing the bed in a particular manner, all in the 
view to the production of " good " crops. Such may 
have been the case ; but the author has doubts whether 
they will come into general use. The practitioners 
who promulgate these methods, certainly do so with 
good intentions. But in some of their writings there 
are intermixed too many technical terms, such as 
generating << caloric*' to the bottom of the bed. 



174 THE VEGETABLE CULTlVATOIU 

Why not say a warmth ? The author's two very old 
acquaintances, Philip Miller and John Abercrombie^ 
did not write in that style : theirs were plain and 
practical directions, such as the writer has en<ka- 
voured to follow throughout this work. 

From the ample detaib given under the head of 
the varieties described, the writer will briefly state 
what he has further to say on the culture of this fhik. 
First, in regard to the earliest plants, the culture of 
which is so similar to that of cucumbers, that little 
need be added. The following will explain what re- 
mains to be said on this head. 

The two principal things, the seed and soil, hav* *' 
ing been already mentioned, the sowing of the seed 
is to be noticed, which may be done either in pots 
or pans, and then plunged into a brisk heat, as the 
melon is of a more tender nature than the cucumber. 
The seed will soon vegetate, and be of sufficient 
height in a few days to pot off, which is to be done 
on the appearance of the first rough leaf. The pots 
to be of a small size (60 to the cast) and in each 
should be put two plants, just covering the hole at 
the bottom with a little short mulchy stuff, and aflber 
the pots have been half fiUed with mould, the plants 
are to be put in, and afterwards plunged more of 
less, according to the heat of the bed, and should 
ihe mould appear dry, a little water should be 
given in a tepid state, as advised for the cucum- 
ber. After the stopping of the leading shoot, the 
plants will be of sufficient growth to ridge out, 
^ther in a dung hot-bed or in a fiued pit, the same 
as before mentioned. The only difference between 
iidging out early melons and cucumbers is, that the 



MELOKk 175 

former should have a little stronger soil, after the 
^rst earthing of the hills. This should be given 
gradually as the plants seem to require it, gently 
pressing it down each time with the hand, which 
will cause it to be sufficiently solid, without having 
recourse to heavy treading in an eariy season* 

As soon as it appears that the leading shoots of 
the plant have grown to two or three joints, their 
tops should be pinched off, which will cause them 
to produce lateral shoots, generally called runners. 
From that time the plants should have a full earth- 
ing gently sloping from the hills, the runners are to 
be r^ularly trained on the surface, which may be 
thinly covered with dry moss, and at a later season 
with tiles, or small rough gravel. In the event of 
an early season, the fruit shown will require setting, 
and in that case stopped a joitat or two beyond ; but 
for a larger crop the shoots should not be stopped 
before they reach the side of the frames, when two 
of the strongest would be fully sufficient, aa too 
frequent stopping only causes a too great multi]^* 
cation of branches* 

Daring the time the fruit is setting or swelling 
off, care should be taken to keep up a lively grow- 
ing heat, about 70 of the thermometer, with light 
sprinklings of water^ more or less, according as the 
weather is dark or light, 

. The question of giving coverings at night, has 
been glanced at when treating of the cucumber. 
'Air is also fully requisite for the melon in warm 
fitill weather, throughout the summer season, as the 
plants, by being strengthened, will resist any euddea 
changes in the da^-time. 



176 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

We gather from observations, that the length of 
time a melon takes from setting, till it arrives at 
maturity, is about six or seven weeks : it has also 
been noticed, that when the plants are in good 
health, small drops, like beads, are seen round the 
edges of the leaves in the morning, which circum- 
stance arises from dew having fallen in the counse of 
the night If none are observed, the plants are either 
too dry, or in want of more heat, and in such caaeap 
measures should be taken to rectify the omission ao« 
oordingly. 

The author will now say a few words on' the col 
ture of the large Cantaleupe melons, which differs ill 
some respects from that of the smaller kinds. Fir8t» 
the pits or frames must be considerably larger : those 
the author had in use, were six feet wide, and the 
pit or bed of three feet in depth was level with the 
ground. In raising plants of the above description, 
the seed should be sown about the latter end of 
April, and if more plants than enough for three 
lights are wanted, a small hot-bed should be pre- 
pared for them. In forming the hillsy the full 
depth, sixteen or eighteen inches, must be given, 
and the mould must be of a more loamy nature than 
for the other varieties ; good loam is the basis for 
the growth of both fruit and vegetables. 

When the plants have been stopped in the man- 
ner already mentioned, they should be allowed to 
run nearly to the front and back of the frame, pre- 
viously to which they should be fully earthed ; and if 
ihe mould is not too moist, it may be moderatdy 
trodden over the entire part of the bed, which after- 
wards may be covered, either with common house 



MELON. 177 

Ules^ or thinly, with small gravel, previously washed 
for the purpose. 

Melons have been successfully raised under oil- 
paper frames, by digging a trench in the ground full 
two feet deep ; the earthing and ridging out must 
be similar to those of cucumbers : but such old- 
fashioned methods are now nearly out of date. In 
pruning the large soi*t of melons, little will be re- 
quired of the knife, if they are not too frequently 
stopped in their growth. The Cantaleupe is both 
hardy and fruitful, and it must be determined by 
the grower whether he will leave more than two 
shoots upon a plant. 
, There ai'e two diseases which affect the melon 
plant ; the rust occasioned by the red spider, and 
the mildew. These arise from two causes ; the first, 
from a too dry state of the air, and the second from 
cold and damp weather, with too great dampness in 
the bed, and an insufficiency of bottom heat ; hence 
the efficacy of MThaiVs pits, and the fluid pits so 
successfully used in Scotland, particularly those near 
a tan-yard. 

The attacks of the red spider are generally con- 
fined to the under surface of the leaves; hence there 
is a difficulty in destroying it, as bruising the leaves 
on the side infected generally does more harm than 
good. The only remedy the author recommends, 
to prevent and stop the progress of this destructive 
insect, is to keep the interior air of the frame or 
house in a moist state, by frequently sprinkling the 
plants with water; by frequent fumigations of to- 
bacco ; or by putting a little sulphur of vivum in a 
pan under ekch light. 

K 



178 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

To prevent, and in a great measure cure, the 
mildew/ if the weather is cold and wet, and the bed 
too slack of heat, a moderate lining of good hot dung 
must be applied . and should the mould round the 
bottom of the hills appear to be too much soddened 
with moisture, draw away all the earth that can be 
conveniently removed, with as little injury to the 
roots as possible, and replace it with fresh ; bat this 
can be only done while the plants are in a young 
state. 

In reference to what has been alluded to in re- 
spect of raising the melon on tan, this has been 
successfully practised by the author and many 
others in this country, and would be considerably 
more so, but for the great distance of some tan- 
yards (the tan should be taken nearly fresh from the 
pit, not too finely ground), and the expense of car- 
riage. These obstacles being got over, the quan- 
tity wanted may be judged of from the length of the 
pit to be worked ; the tan being two feet or more 
thickness, if there be no old to mix with it. The 
being procured, it should be thrown in a heap under 
cover, to heat . and ferment for a week or ten days 
before using, turning it over twice within that time 
after which it will be found in good order for pat- 
ting in the pit, previously laying at the bottoi 
about a foot of good warm dung (not too short)- ^ 
One third of old tan, not too finely sifted, mixc 
with the new, will be an improvem^t, as the rool 
will most likely penetrate into it 

As soon as it is found that the heat is regulari] 
up (the lights being over it the whole time)^ thi 
earth should be put m iot \ivfe IvUK so high tha--' 





MELON. • 179 

hen the plants are ridged out, they will nearly 
uch the glass; and as the bed will most likely 
ak considerably, the plants are to have the full 
^pth of mould, as already mentioned, and likewise 
e same after-treatment. The author can only 
Id, — beware of too much water, the want of whicl^. 
ill be indicated by the dryness of the leaves, as 
uch moisture will be contained under them, or any 
her covering. 

Before leaving this favourite fruit, a few words 
ill be said in reference to the many prizes which 
le scarlet flesh melon, has gained. It brings to the 
ithor's memory the many Convivial and friendly 
leetings (called by the gardeners melon feasts) he 
ttended in by-gone days, when the utmost har- 
Lony prevailed among the many hundreds assembled, 
lany among whom of course were anidous for their 
sspective friends to gain the prize. 

At one of these feasts, in the year 1776, the author 
appened to be the fortunate candidate, bearing away 
lie prize from fourteen others, whose specimens, all 
f the true Cantaleupe variety, were from four to 
en pounds weight each, and of the most perfect 
;rowth. The melon which the author exhibited 
weighed four pounds seven ounces. It was cer- 
ainly a feather in the author's cap, being as he was 
t that time so young a man. That the meetings 
Jluded to, when celebrated with temperance, are 
productive of much benefit, is universally allowed ; 
or, by causing an emulation among the young hor- 
iculturists, they in a great measure act as a stimulus 
o further improvement. 

N 2 



180 THE VEC^TABLE CULTIVATOR. 



34 MILAN CABBAGE Var. Brassica. 

The most popular name is Chaux de Milan; 
the name Choux being given by the French and 
Italians to most of the Brassica tribe, as arranged 
by Linnaeus. 

This vegetable is extensively cultivated round the 
town above mentioned ; growing tall, and produc- 
ing an open head, the centre of which is most de- 
licate, with numerous sprouts equally good; the 
late appearance of which renders them more valu- 
able. 

Culture. — What has been mentioned respecting 
the culture of the green kail, Brussels sprouts, &c., 
holds good in respect to the culture of the Choux 
de Milan, with the addition that the above requires 
more room for its growth than either of the former* 
It is a delicate green, both in colour and taste. Were 
it harder (producing numerous sprouts), it would 
be a great acquisition, even to the first tables, 
to which our common green kail was so highly wel- 
comed after the severe winter of the year 1 838, 
when most other greens were destroyed- Once 
more the author begs to remind either the young or 
old gardener to have always plenty of that valu- 
able variety in cultivation ; for what has been, majn 
be again ; and, as the celebrated Dr. Franklin ob — 
served in his Poor Richards Almanac^ " When th^ 
well is dry we know the want of water." 



MINT. 181 

35. MINT. — Mentha. 

Mentha, the original Latin name, was given to 
the different species of the mint from their sup- 
posed virtues. The Mentha viridis, Green Mint, is 
the sort preferred for culinary and other puirposes. 
It is the most agreeably flavoured, and not so warm 
to the taste as the Mentha piperita^ or Pepper- 
mint, which will be noticed under the head Phy- 
sical Herbs. 

The Green Mint, commonly known by the name 
of Spear Mint, from the pointedness of its leaves^ 
is commonly eaten as sauce with lamb. It is also 
used in spring salads, and, when dried, in soups. 
It has a very refreshing scent; and is very efRca- 
cious when used as a warm stomachic, in producing 
appetite. It is said also to have the virtue of stop- 
ping crude and continued retching. 

Culture, — Mint, being perennial, is propagated 
by parting the roots in spring, previously to their 
breaking ground. It will grow in any sort of light 
soil and situation ; but a warm spot, if attain- 
able, will bring it forward earlier for use. When 
propagated by parting the roots, they may be laid 
thinly in drills, drawn about three inches deep, 
and a foot apart, or in beds three or four feet 
wide, where they may remain for three or four 
years only ; giving the bed a top dressing of mould 
in the early part of winter. A bed six or eight feet 
in length will produce a large quantity of this herb ; 
but more or less depends on what is likely to be 
wanted. Large quantities of this herb are also 
propagated by the market-gardeners near London 

N 3 




182 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

from the young shoots, when a few inches in height. 
A spot of rich ground should be selected for the 
purpose, and planted in three or four-feet-wide 
beds, at a few inches apart. Such plantations are- 
for cutting green and drying. If for the latter, the 
plants must be advanced in growth till they are nearly 
in full flower^ when they are to be cut, and the si 
laid out thinly in some dry shady place, where the] 
may dry leisurely. When found of sufficient crisp-- 
ness, they may be either tied up in bunches or pal 
in paper bags (which is the better method to keej 
them from dust), and laid in some dry place till 
wanted. 

As green mint is a desirable herb in the 
of the winter, and more particularly on the firsi 
appearance of lamb, the roots may be taken up 
open weather, and planted either on a moderate^^^ 
hot-bed or in pots or boxes. Where there is the 
conveniency of a hot-house, they will require bul 
little trouble : if this is not to be had^ a slight hot- 
bed must be made about two feet thick, of urell- 
prepared dung, enough for one or two lights, about 
the end of November, or earlier if required, 
soon as the heat has risen, mould should be laid oi 
the next day to the depth of six or eight indu 
The bed being properly levelled;^ t^e roots may 
laid on the surface^ and covered witl^ an inch oi 
two of good light mould ; a good watering is th( 
to be given, which will wash the earth round th( 
roots; afterwards a little mould strewed over the 
whole will finish the work. The lights should 
kept close till the appearance of the plants^ when 
little air must be given, to sweeten the bed. Ii 







MUSHROOM. 183 

ft.1>out a fortnight or three weeks the plants will 
begin to produce buds of sufficient growth for use, 
uid will so continue for a considerable time, if 
carefully protected from frost 

36. MUSHROOM. — Fungus. 

The botanic name of Fungus is given to this 
plant on account of its spongy nature; that of 
IMushroom, so called by the English, is supposed to 
be derived from the French name Mauseron, allied 
to a species of fungus called Champignon* 

The mushroom tribe has afforded a wide field for 
speculation to naturalists of every age, who have dis- 
puted whether it consists of perfect or imperfect 
plants : perfect in one respect, — as some have been 
known to produce seed. 

This class of plants, which the botanists rank as 
the lowest order of vegetables, has been supposed 
to assimilate more closely to the animal than any 
other class of the vegetable world ; and the animal 
flavour of the esculent mushroom leaves little doubt 
of the matter. Upon the whole, to the growth and 
formation of this wonderful though humble vege- 
table, may well be applied the words of Thomson, 
which are indeed applicable to the entire vegetable 
kingdom: — 

"Us surely God, 
Whose imremittiiig energy pervades, 
Accosts, sustains, and agitates the whole. 
His ceaseless works alone, and yet alone. 
Seem not to work, with such perfection framed 
In this complex stupendous scheme of things. 

N 4 



184* • THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Mushrooms are very extensively used for makiDg 
the well-known catsup; they are also much es- 
teemed as a pickle, and, when stewed with rich 
gravies, are most delicious. They are considered a 
luxurious dish in most parts of the world, and are 
cultivated in most parts of Europe particularly as a 
delicious food ; but in no country is their cultivation 
so general as in England, where they are produced 
at all seasons of the year; and little or no ap- 
prehension is now entertained (if used in moder- 
ation) respecting their dangerous qualities, since 
they have become the care of the British gardener. 
The author has never heard of any person having 
suffered from eating cultivated mushrooms, although 
they are in general use in London ; which the quan- 
tity brought to the London markets throughout the 
year fully exemplifies. In Paris they have but few, 
except such as are gathered in the fields ; and there 
are continual accounts of deaths caused by this vege- 
table ; attributable most likely to excess in eating 
them, and to the want of due care in selecting th< 
genuine sort, which principally grows in open fields. 
Such as are overtopped by trees are not to be de- 
pended on, as their roots probably run near th< 
surface, and often throw out a spurious variety 
which will be found to grow out of the earth in 
short time about six inches high, rounding at bo 
torn like a bladder full of holes, or fine-wrough 
net-work, with gills red as scarlet, and of a mos t^""^ 
disagreeable scent when they get old. Hence sue 
only as grow in the open fields should be gatheredi 
and in such fields only as have been known to 
duce mushrooms o£ tlae be«.t o^o^lvtY for a number o\ 





MUSHROOM. 185 

years, more or less, according to the season. After 
a. warm dry summer, and an early moist autumn, 
mushrooms are always plentiful, but scarce when 
such seasons are cold and wet. 

Mushrooms are often observed to grow to a 
'Very large size. One of the very best quality was 
fathered, some time ago at Brigg, in Lincolnshire, 
"^^hich measured three feet four inches in circum- 
:ference, and the girth of the stalk was five inches 
Skud a half: it was two inches in thickness, and 
'^reighed twenty-nine ounces. There were six others 
ziearly the same weight. 

Culture. — In the cultivation of any other vege- 
't^able we either sow or plant something material, — a 
slip or root, — which we both see and handle ; but in 
Xhe culture of mushrooms we neither sow nor plant 
cmy thing visible, at least to the naked eye. Yet it 
i.8 certain that mushrooms are produced by seed, 
'vhich certainly vegetates in the fields at certain 
periods, either more or less, according to the sea- 
sons, which have been noticed before. 

Various have been the methods advised for raising 
the mushroom, which of late years have been so 
simplified, that the cottager, with very little trouble, 
may not only regale himself with them throughout 
the year, but make the raising of them a source of 
profit, as they may be made to vegetate artificially 
at any season, either in dry warm cellars, sheds, or 
such like places in the dark, by a certain process, 
and by a composition, of which the dung of certain 
animals forms the chief ingredient ; that ingredient 
is spawn, on the goodness and strength of which, in 
whatsoever way it is made, depends the croi^. Cotti^ 




186 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

sequently, where large quantities are required, either 
for sale or otherwise, the making of spawn may be 
successfully practised. For this purpose adopt the 
following process, which has been communicated 
and approved of by the Horticultural Society, and 
practised by the author with success. 

In June and July take any quantity of 
horse droppings (the more dry and high fed th< 
better), mixed with short litter, one third of cow'£ 
dung, and a good portion of mould of a loamy^^Z^ 
nature ; cement them well together, and mash the 
whole into a thin compost, and spread it on the 
floor of an open shed, to remain till it becomes 
enough to be formed into flat square bricks ; whicfa^i^^ 
done, set them on an edge, and frequently turn 
till half dry ; then with a dibble make two or 
holes in each brick, and insert in each hole a 
of good old spawn, about the size of a commoi 
walnut The bricks should then be left till the] 
are dry. This being completed, level the surface of 
a piece of ground, under cover, three feet wide, an( 
of sufiicient length to receive the bricks, on whicl 
lay a bottom of dry horse-dung, six inches thick 
then form a pile, by placing the bricks in rows on< 
upon another, with the spawn side uppermost, till 
the pile is three feet high; next cover it with 
small portion of warm horse-dung, sufficient ii 
quantity to difluse a gentle glow of heat throug] 
the whole. When the spawn has spread it 
through every part of the bricks, the process 
ended, and the bricks may then be laid up in a dj 
place for use. 

Mushroom spayrn, made according to this dk. — 




MUSHROOM. 187 

rection, will preserve its vegetative power many 
years, if well dried before it is laid up ; but, if moist, 
Lt will grow and exhaust itself. The next subject 
to be treated of is the preparation of the dung for 
the bed ; and for this purpose none answers so well 
Eus that of the horse, when taken fresh from the 
stable ; the more droppings in it the better. 

About Michaelmas is the general' season for 
making mushroom beds (though this may be done 
all the year round). A quantity of the dung men- 
tioned should be collected, and thrown together in a 
"heap, to ferment and acquire heat ; and as this heat 
generally proves . too violent at first, it should, pre- 
viously to making the bed, be reduced to a proper 
temperature, by frequently turning it in the course 
of the fortnight or three weeks ; which time it will 
most likely require for all the parts to get into an 
even state of fermentation. During the above time, 
should it be showery weather^ the heat will require 
some sort of temporary protection, by covering it 
with litter, or such like, as too much wet would 
soon deaden its fermenting quality. The like cau- 
tion should be attended to in making the bed, and 
after fijiishing it. 

As soon as it is observed that the fiery heat and 
rank steam of the dung are gone ofi^, a dry and 
sheltered spot of ground should be chosen on which 
to make the bed. The place being determined on, 
a space should be marked out five feet broad, and the 
length (running north and south) should be accord- 
ing to the quantity of mushrooms likely to be required. 
If for a moderate familv, a bed twelve or fourteen 
feet long wiJJ be found (if it takes vreW^ to \ito^^^ 






188 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

a good supply of mushrooms for some months, pi 
vided proper attention be paid to the covering. 

On the space marked for making the bed 
trench should be thrown out about six inches deep 
the mould may be laid regularly at the side, and, 
if good, it will do for earthing the bed hereafter 
otherwise, if brought from a distance, that of 
more loamy than a sandy nature will be best. 

Either in the trench, or if upon the surface, 
should be laid about four inches of good dung, no< 
too short, for forming the bottom of the bed ; thei 
lay on the prepared dung a few inches thick, regu- 
larly over the surface, beating it as regularly do^ 
with the fork ; continue thus gradually dra^ving ii 
the sides to the height of five feet, until it narrows-^^ 
to the top like the ridge of a house. In that statu- ■* 

it may remain for ten days or a fortnight, during ' 

which time the heat should be examined towardsi^ 
the middle of the bed, by thrusting some small sha^ 
sticks down in three or four places ; and when found 
of a gentle heat (not hot), the bed may be spawned; 
for which purpose the spawn bricks should be 
broken regularly into pieces about an inch and a 
half or two inches square, beginning within six 
inches of the bottom of the bed, and in lines about 
eight inches apart : the same distance will also do 
for the pieces of spawn, which, in a dung ridge, are 
best put in by one hand, raising the dung up a few 
inches, whilst, with the other, the spawn can be laid 
in, and covered at the same time. After spawning 
the bed, if it is found to be in that regular state of 
heat before mentioned, it may be earthed. After the 
surface is levelled with the back of the spade, there 



MUSHROOM. 189 

should be laid on two inches of mould — that out of 

tlie trench, if dry and good, will do ; otherwise, if 

t:o be brought, and a choice made, that of a kindly 

loam is to be preferred. After having been laid on, it 

is to be beaten closely together, and when the whole 

Is finished, the bed must be covered about a foot 

t;hick with good oat straw ; over which should be 

laid mats, for the double purpose of keeping the 

l3ed dry, and of securing the covering from being 

l>lown off. In the course of two or three days the 

l>ed should be examined, and if it is considered that 

-the heat is likely to increasct the covering must be 

diminished for a few days, which is better than 

taking it entirely off. 

In about a month or five weeks (but frequently 
^thin the former time, if the bed is in a high state 
of cultivation) mushrooms will most likely make 
their appearance, and in the course of eight-and- 
forty hours afterwards they will have grown to a 
sufficient size for use ; in which case the author re^ 
commends that, instead of cutting them off close to 
the ground, they be drawn out with a gentle twist, 
filling up the cavity with a little fine mould, gently 
pressed in level with the bed. This method of 
gathering is much better than cutting, n^ the part 
left generally rots and breeds insects ; one in par- 
ticular, the wood-louse ; all of which are destructive 
both in frames and on mushroom-beds. Many are 
the different powders with which the author has tried 
to destroy them, but they were all entirely useless. 
At last he was induced, from what he was informed, 
to try the following ; and if it did not entirely de- 
stroy them, it kept the frames and beds almost 





190 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

entirely clear. Get some of the tuberous root o 
the black bryony, which grows in the hedges ; slice 
it thin and small, into small garden pans, and cov< 
it lightly with moss, as this insect, like the mush 
room, prefers darkness to light. Let the pans 
put in difiPerent places of the bed, and in the morn- 
ing shake the intruders into a pail of boiling water 
repeat the same at intervals, and but few will 
to be troublesome. 

After what has been mentioned, the author 
close with a few other hints the method of culti 
ing the mushroom on ridge dung beds, which 
been successfully practised during the last century, 
and still continues to hold its place, though not ii 
high rank, since mushroom-houses (which will 
noticed hereafter) have been so generally adopted. 

Where a mushroom-bed is permanently to 
main, a covered shed will be found most convenient^' 
as the necessary work of the bed, &c., can be done? 
with more facility than when open to the different^ 
changes of the weather. For this purpose a dry 
place should be chosen (the more sheltered the 
better) whereon to build ashed of sufficient breadth ^ 
thickness of covering, a space to go round, and 
the roof high enough for a man to walk under; the 
length, according to what is wanted, either ten, 
twenty, or thirty feet* The shed should run from 
north to south ; the north end must be closed en- 
tirely up; the sides, with the exception of two 
small sliding shutters, must be weather boarded, 
and the roof thatched with straw. It may be built 
of any rough materials; it will last many years, 
and be found a good substitute for a regular mush- 



MUSHROOM. 191 

»om-house ; but such a house is, to all intents and 
urposes, most necessary where a constant supply 

required. 

Sometimes it happens that a bed suddenly ceases 
I produce any mushrooms : this arises from various 
luses^ but principally from the cold state of the 
3d in winter, or from a too dry state in summer. 
1 the former case a slight covering of mulchy hay 
id over the bed, and on that six or eight inches of 
ell-worked hot dung, and the whole covered lightly 
ith the straw that was taken off, will most likely 
ring it about again. In the latter instance, 
loisture, if required, should be given moderately 
>r two or three mornings, when, after lying about 
a hour, the whole may be covered up, and be found 
f much service. In summer, most mushroom- 
eds in a bearing state require more or less slight 
raterings. Soft water should be used for the pur- 
ose : spring water is too hard, and of too cold Ak 
ature ; and when at any time applied, checks ve- 
etation. In summer time a gentle shower of rain 
n open beds that are in bearing, and seem dry, will 
dd considerably to their productiveness. 

A mushroom-bed seldom furnishes any abun- 
ance after two or three months : it has often done 
s best in six weeks. Heayy rains are most de- 
tructive to mushrooms ; therefore care should be 
&ken to remove the wet straw or litter, and di- 
ectly replace it with dry ; hence the utility of a 
overed shed. 

Mushrooms have been successfully raised on late 
lelon ridges, — suppose May and June, — from which 
aost abundant crops have been obtained, with no 



192 THE VEGETA3L& CULTIVATOR. 

injury whatever to the melon 4)laQt, anid h^a.:p||p- 
cess attended with but little trouble. The h^M 
prescribed by the author is what be has prqictia^ 
at times for a long series of years. 

The first time he noticed mushrooms growuig 
inside and out of melon frames, was aboul oewQlf 
years ago, at Claremont, once the favourite spot irf 
our lamented Princess Charlotte. At that tyaae it 
belonged to Lord Clive. Greening was tiie .head 
gardener, and was then supposed to be equal to ti^ 
best of his day. The author well remembera sefeliif 
Greening's ridge of the large Cantaleupe.meloQs 
interspersed with mushrooms ; hence it will be qV 
served this mode of culture is not a late onew ■> 

For the above purpose the bed. should oot b( 
spawned till a fortnight after the plants are lidgM 
out ; as too early spawning would be prejudieill 
from the great heat necessary for bringing forward 
the melons : a good time will be when the plants an 
fully earthed up ; as the loamy soil advised for tht 
melon so well agrees with the mushroom* 

When the bed is found to be moderately warn 
and moist^ there should be laid on the vacant part 
of the surface about two or three inches of half? 
consumed compost, either of leaves or dung ; in 
which insert the spawn of about two inches square, 
six or eight inches apart, in rows, on a breadth (^ 
eighteen inches, round the inside of the frame ; covei? 
the whole with the soil intended for the plants, and 
tread the whole down rather firmly, within a few 
inches of them, but more or less according to the^ 
state of the mould being strong or moist* When 
this is done, let the surface of the bed be coverefl, 



MUSHROOM, 193 



# 



m before advised, which^ with the occasional shade 
on the glass, will make it sufficientlj dark for the 
production of the mushroom. 

In the course of three weeks, after a bed was 
•pawned in this way, it began to produce mush- 
rooms, and so continued for some weeks after the 
plants had done bearing, and were pulled up, by 
giving about two inches of top dressing, slightly 
covering the surface with hay, and keeping the 
lights close. In such beds the finest flakes of spawn 
have been produced, as hinted before. 

On a ridge or ridges of hand-glass cucumbers 
(those in frames have generally the mould too Mght), 
•pawn may be inserted along the edges, where, with 
the surface being covered with half consumed litter, 
or such like, mushrooms have been frequently pro- 
duced in abundance. 

Exclusive of the di£ferent methods mentioned, 
others will most likely suggest themselves to the 
young horticulturist, who should never be tired of 
maJLing moderate and well-considered experiments. 
By such means have the gardeners of the United 
Slingdom attained that knowledge which they so 
pre-eminently possess over others in Europe ; but 
still there is ample room for improvement 

So far on the cultivation of the mushroom in the 
old school. That of raising them in houses built on 
parpose, may be termed the *' new school." This 
practice was but little adopted, till after the middle 
of the last century ; since that time they have come 
(not without reason) rapidly into use, and at the 
present time but few noblemen's or gentlemen's 
gardens are without one. Besides being in high 

o 





194 THE VB6ETABLK CULTIVATOR. 

estiiiiadon in these situations, they are suceessfull; 
used by many of the most eminent market-gar 
deners in the three kingdoms. 

It was not till after the return of Oldacre, who w; 
gardener to the late Sir Joseph Banks, that mush 
room houses became so general; much of 
popularity arose from a small treatise which he pub« - "^ 
lished on the subject, and which was much sought' — ^ 
after; and as he was a successful cultivator, hi^^^^ 
method, with some improvements, was, and is 
this time, generally adopted. 

The first idea of building houses for the produ 
tion of mushrooms is supposed to have originate<^^^ 
in Germany, but whether it did so or not is no 
material; whoever was the inventor is entitled 
praise, as it is certainly a great addition to 
vegetable horticulture. The utility of such 
has been already noticed. 

In a work treating solely of the cultivation, o^ 
culinary vegetables, both by natural and artifioia] 
means, the omission of any part of their cidtore 
would be deemed a blank ; on which account the 
author is induced to give a rough sketch (on a 
small scale) of a house necessary for the forcing of 
mushrooms, and which will enable any person to 
give directions for such a structure : the plan has 
been tried, and found to work well. 

The place on which to build a house for tbs 
above purpose should be dry and sheltered; the 
length of the house should be twenty feet, as it 
would be hardly worth while to erect a smaller one; 
and as it should be considerably more in length 
than breadth, the ends should run north and foath; 



\ 



MUSHROOM. i95 

tine north part, if convenient and not too much ex- 
posed, may be built against any spare place to that 
aspect, which will save some expense. The wail 
should be nine feet high, from the surface of nine 
inch work. It should have a double roof ; for the 
inside one, an arch made of thin boards, the ends 
to rest next the wall on the upper shelf, and the 
outer one a span, covered with slates or tiles. At 
eighteen inches* distance from the wall inside the 
house, should be fixed five or six upright posts 
on each side, to which cross wooden bars may be 
fastened, whose ends next the wall may be mortised 
in it. Thre6 tiers of shelves or boxes of the above 
breadth must be obtained and placed thus: the 
first or lower tier, two feet from the ground, the 
second four feet, and the third six feet. A small 
fine of seven or eight inches should be set on flat 
bricks, every other one open, commencing at the 
east, and going round next the path of fourteen 
inches ; which is better than to place the flue im- 
mediately under the lower tier of shelves, as this 
would be prejudicial from its heat, though little 
danger need be apprehended on this ground, as the 
maximum heat of the house in the severest season 
should not exceed 60° ; the average about 55^. How« 
ever, for fear of accidents a tile should be placed at 
the lower end of the uprights, between them and the 
flue, by which any apprehension of danger may be 
removed. The door of the house should have a 
small slide made at the bottom, which may be used 
occasionally as a ventilator. 

' In the above sketch it will be observed that 
bearers are fixed to support shelves or boxes» 

o 2 




196 THE VBGBTABLB CULTIVATOR. 

which latter are recommended in preferenee 
fiiling the entire shelves. The boxes for the p 
pose should be made of half-inch yellow deal^ 
feet in height The depth should be 
inches, and the breadth according to the spaee 
the shelves. In the bottom of each bok there 
be three or four holes, about half an inch in diameter^ 
which will be found useful (though some think otli< 
wise) for two purposes ; first, they will admit 
and secondly, they let out any superfluous moist 
which majr^iappen to accumulate during the 
and which is so baneful to the mushroom., in 
season. In summer it is not so much to be fearied^ 
as light and frequent waterings will be necoMWiy^^ 
The compost dung for filling the boxes should 
the same as advised for making a mushroom 
(the more horse droppings the better). When it i» 
found to have properly fermented, and to be in iv 
sweet state (the gardeners' phrase), the boxes are 
to be filled in the following manner: first» laf 
over the bottom box an inch or so of what vavf 
be called flaky dung ; if given to spawn, so mudr 
the better ; and over that five or six inches of the 
prepared dung before noticed, which is also firmly 
to be beaten down; over that lay about a doxen 
small bits of spawn, on which two or three indMi 
more of the prepared dung is to be laid» and 
beaten down as before, which will make it solid 
and firm in the boxes of nine or ten inches. It 
may lie in that state for about a week, for the heai 
to rise regularly throughout the mass. In the interior 
it should be examined ; and, if it be found very 
warm, ten or a dozen holes may be m^e nearly 



MUSHHOOM. J 97 

%o the bottom of the box, with a small pointed stick, 
for the great heat to evaporate, which it will most 
likely do in thr^e or four days after, when it may be 
spawned by pieces an inch and a half square being 
inserted in the dung in cavities, to be fiUed up with 
dikng similar to that taken out. The whole is then 
to be covered two inches thick with a kindly loam or 
good kitchen-garden earth, not too. finely sifted, 
f his should likewise be well beaten down, and 
tbe surface covered thinly for a few days with dry 
litter. Keeping the heat of the house up to 60°, 
inll soon cause the spawn to work, and vegetation 
to be brought on, so that within a month mush- 
rooms may be expected, in the gathering of which 
much care will be necessary, by disturbing as little 
$B possible the place where they have risen. 
' Their after culture will principally consist in 
keeping up a regular heat during the winter; and 
idiould it happen (which, however, is very rare in 
winter) that any of the boxes are in want of mois- 
tiiTe, a very little soft water may be ^ven, which 
iias been placed in the house two or three days 
before. 

' Shelves may be erected for growing mushrooms 
in a warm shed, at the back of a hot or green- 
liouse ; and also in dry, warm cellars, similarly to the 
bouse culture : in the latter place, they have been 
ieikhivated most successfully in hampers, and, in 
i^ort, in almost any place where warmth and dark- 
ness prevail. 



o S 



198 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 



97. MUSTARD. —. SiNAPis. 

The origin of Sinapis, the most aneient name of 
this herb^ is not precisely ascertained ; many bota- 
nists consider it arises from its pungent effects upoB 
the eyes. 

Mustard seed was first obtained from Egypt, and 
has been handed down to the di£Rerent nations in 
Europe from time immemorial. . 

Mustard seed was not common in Queen Eliza- 
beth's reign, but shortly afterwards it ciame most 
rapidly into use, at first in its natural state, and 
then manufactured, as we now have it. It makes 
an excellent sauce, to be eaten either with fish or 
flesh. It helps digestion, warms the stomach, and 
promotes appetite ; and, on the whole, must be con- 
sidered a most wholesome condiment, when mixed 
with salads, either in winter or summer. 

The young mustard, in its green state is higUy 
valued as a salad herb, with cresses, radishes, &c 
and its cultivation, for that purpose, is of the first 
importance. There are two sorts cultivated, the 
S. alba^ or ^ white mustard," and the S, nigra^ or 
^< black mustard." 

The flour of the seed of both varieties affords 
the common mustard for the table, but the latter is 
chiefly used for that purpose ; the first sort is alone 
cultivated as a salad herb, to be used in its green 
state. The seeds of both are much used in medi« 
cine, and are considered of equal eflicacy. 

Culture^ — The white mustard is sown and cul- 
tivated in the same manner as advised for cress, at 



NEW ZEAXAND SPINACH, 199 

fdl times of the year, sometimes} every week or fort- 
night It can be either sown in a bed ,or border of 
light earth, or in shallow drills, very thick, covering 
it very thinly with the same sort of mould ; and 
in winter, and early in spring, during cold weather, 
in slight hot beds. It often happens, when this 
lierb is sownjn spring, in the open ground, that it 
Is. caught with sharp hoary frosts towards morning. 
When that is the case, a littie sprinkling of water 
before sun-rise, will prevent any ill effects which 
jBometimes follow from the heat afterwards. 

The herbs are always cut for use whilst in the 
seed-leaf, and but a few days old ; otherwise they 
become too strongs and are rank and ill-flavoured. 

S8. NEW ZEALAND SPINACH.— 
Tetragonia. 

. This plant was named Tetragonuz^ from the 
honied shape of its seed-pods ; and ExpansUi from 
its spreading growth. 

. It is a native of New Zealand, and was intro- 
duced into this country by Sir Joseph Banks in 
1772> and afterwards principally brought into notice 
by Mr. John Anderson, gardener to the Earl of 
Essex, at Cashioburv Park. 

The great advantage it possesses is, that of sup- 
plying fresh leaves in the driest weather, when the 
erops of summer spinach are useless. From its 
rapidity of growth in producing leaves, three or 
four plants have been found sufficient to give a 
eonstant and plentiful supply throughout the season^ 

It is a spreading plant, with numerous branchesi 

o 4- 



200 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

growing in a circular form, . to the heigiit of tlmt 
or four feet 

Culture. — This useful v^etable is propagated by 
seed) which should be sown towards the aid of Moroh 
or the beginning of April, on a slight kot*bed.- 
When the plants are up a few inches in heightt they 
must be planted singly in small pots, and kept shei* 
tered till the end of May, when they may be tumed 
out in any light rich piece of ground, oipea to t 
southern aspect, in order to forward the ripeniBg 
of the seeds in autunm. It produces seeds mofll 
freely, droppmg them on the ground, similar to the 
nasturtium. 

More or less of this plant should be cuHiyited 
in every garden ; for, besides forming an ezodleii 
substitution for the common spinach, ihe seedib 
when pickled in a green state, are nearly equal to 
capers. 

Some years ago, the author was informed by a 
good English cook, that, on hearing some ccmH 
plaints of the taste of this vegetable, she boiled with 
it a small handful of French sorrelj which had tiie 
effect of greatly improving its flavour* 



39. ONION.— Allium. 

The definition of the botanic pame AlHum hM 
been before given under the head garlic* ThQ 
onion was originally called by the ancient Latii^ 
liame CepCf on account of the form of its • bolbf 
It is now made the specific, according to the Xiof 
psean system. It was likewise termed Qmo^ . be- 



^gtnm the bvJIb never throws out any offsets ; and 
from that word the Enghsh name onion is deduced* 

^ The common onion owes its chief qualities to 
ctdtivation and climate. It is supposed to be a 
nlitiTe of Spain ; though^ as Neill observes, neithei* 
ilB' native country^ nor the date of its introduction 
ii^ this country, is correctly known. 

\ No plant has been so much exposed to the caprice 
of fashion and the disputes of physicians as the 
OBion. It has been the common seasoning for meats 
of most nations from the earliest period to the pre* 
seatf and has in every age graced at once the table 
of royalty and of the peasant* 

Of all the flavouring substances used in cookery, 
the onion is the most important ; for, besides im- 
parting a fragrant, savoury, and delicious taste to 
every culinary preparation into which it enters as 
an ingredient, it affords considerable nutriment; 
and possesses medical properties of no little value- 
When improperly applied, however, it loses its 
viirtues, and becomes unwholesome and indigestible. 
The lower classes in England, and generally in 
most countries of the civilised world, are much 
addicted to the use of the onion in its crude state. 
In Spain and Portugal it is of a more benignant 
nature than that produced under our more northern 
climate, ivhich is so indigestible that it very often 
remains in the stomach two days, or more, before 
being dissolved by the gastric juice. During this 
time it causes eructations of the most distressing 
kind, and often spasms, which, by the ignorant, are 
attributed to wind. 
Onions, when used as an turticle of diet, are most 



202 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

agreeable when boiled, and senred up with white 
sauce or melted butter. When those of our own 
climate are so cooked, they are greatly improved bj 
the water being changed when they are about hatf 
boiled, and a little salt being thrown into the second 
water^ which should be taken from a boiling tea-^ 
kettle. 

Fried onions are dangerous things ; not quite so 
much as raw ones, but very little less. Gros^eedeff 
in this country are fond of fried onions with beef- 
steaks. 

When onions are used as stuffing for goose, duekt 
pork, or any other meat, in combination with sage, 
and other flavouring substances, they should first 
be chopped very small, and then thrown into boik 
ing water on the fire. After boiling up for about 
five minutes, they should be put into a colander to 
drain, and pressed ui^til not a drop of water re- 
mains in them. If they are then mixed with tiie 
chopped sage or other ingredients, they help to 
form a stuffing, which may generally be eaten with*' 
out injury to the stomach. 

Roasted onions, though not so unwholesome as 
fried ones, are, nevertheless, sufficiently so as to be 
avoided, especially by those persons whose stomachs' 
are not the most robust and unimpaired. 
• The most useful varieties of the onion are the' 
following : — 

1. beptfbrd; so called from the large quaatity- 
of seed saved in the vicinity of that town* It is a' 
good keeping onion throughout the season, and is' 
much cultivated for the London markets. 

2s Reading, long celebrated for a superior growth 



ONIOK. 90i 

^'Onions of a milder cast than either the Deptford 
or Strasburg. There are two varieties of thi» 
onion, the white and the brown ; of the two, the 
brown will keep ^e longest. The true Reading 
has a silvery appearance, and is the sort which 
should be selected for seed : the size of the bulbs 
for this purpose is not material ; as, from an ob- 
servation made by the author, just as fine onions 
were produced from seed saved from the smaller 
as from the larger bulbs. It is the nature of the 
soil and method of cultivation which cause the 
principal difference in respect to the size and quality 
of onions. 

3. Silver-skinnedy a very excellent sort This, 
together with the Reading, are the best and most 
esteemed for pickling. 

4. White Spanish^ Portugal, or Lisbon. These 
are fine onions as long as they last, which is only in 
the early part of winter. To have these sorts true, 
seed should be imported every second year at 
least, as they deteriorate after three or four years 
cultivation in this country. 

5. Tripoli ; a very fine onion, growing to a large 
MZ^'and of a more oval or pyramidieal form than luiy 
other variety. It is excellent for a late crop ; but 
does not keep long after it is taken up. If this 
onion is wished to be kept from decreasing in size 
and quality, fr6sh seed must be imported ever^ 
aeason. 

i 6. James's Long-keeping. 1 These are two v«^ 

7. True Globe. Jluable sorts; that of 

Jiunes's in particular: they both keep well, and 

Hffi mild and ivell-flavoured. The author well re? 



9M THE VEGETABLE QULTIVATOR. 

OoUects the first iQtroduction of Jaines'9 omo^K^ 
James was an extensive market-gardener in Surre3f> 
where he amassed a large fortune. 'He was greoXMj 
respected, and, in the decline of life, was nominatec/ 
high sheriff of the above county* 

8. Strasburg. 1 Principally valued for fhek 

9. Blood-red* J long keeping, which, in most 
seasons, continues till the autumn sowing, for the 
following spring transplanting, comes into mia 
They are very hardy, but of strong flavour. 

10. Webh Onion. This variety is a native of 
Siberia, and Is of the most hardy nature. It is 
seldom destroyed in the severest season ; but dies 
in the early part of winter and grows again at 
the commencement of spring. The Welsh onion is 
a perennial, and all the other cultivated sorts are 
biennial : it does not bulb, and b principally sown 
in autumn, for draining in spring. It would, pei^ 
haps, be more generally cultivate were it not for 
its very strong scent and taste. The stock of this 
variety will last good many years for producing 
seed, which it does freely ; but, for general uses, it 
should be sown every year. 

11. The Potatoe or Under-ground Onion; so 
called from producing under^ground. It cannot 
now, perhaps, be correctly ascertained when this 
variety was introduced into this country, or whence 
it came. It appears to have been cultivated in 
Mr. Driver's nursery^ near London, in 1796* It 
firoduces no seed; consequently it can only be 
vaised from the ofisets of the bulb. The first the 
author saw or heard of was at Lord Rolle'si in 
Devonshire, above twenty years ago ; and the guide 



ONIOK. SOS 

Jttttff nfemairked that the potatoe onion is a very 
valuable ^qnisition to our gardens, and its culti<« 
vation cannot be too stirongly recommended. It 
is mSst hardy, productive, and mild in quality^ 
equally so with the Spanish ; and possesses thk 
advantage, that its rbpts are perfectly ripened and 
Hi for use two months before any other sort 

12. Tree, or Bulb-bearing Onion^ originally from 
Canada, where, the climate being too cold for 
onions to flower and seed, when they are allowed to 
throw up flower-stalks, the flower becomes vivipa^ 
irous^ and bears bulbs instead of flowers. It it 
more an object of curiosity than use, though in 
Some parts of Wales the cauline bulbs are planted, 
imd ptY>duce good ground onions of a considerable 
size, while the stem supplies a succession of bulbs 
for next year's planting. It is considered stronger 
for seasonings than other onions. 

The Large Portuguese Onions, seen in the shops 
of the fruiterers in the metropolis, as well as in att 
our principal seaports, are imported from that 
country in large quantities, and sold at a high price. 
This description of onion forms a most deliciom 
v^etable when boiled, and is sufficiently tender to 
be divided \rith a knife or spoon, like a turnip or 
a potatoe ; whilst the onion produced in our own 
country remains so tenacious that, unless boiled to 
pap, or cut prior to being cooked, it can be divided 
only into flakes or layers* 

Culture, — The soil, in general, cannot be too 
rich for this useful vegetable, even in Spain and 
Portugal, where a flne loamy soil abounds* It is 
more or less manured for every crop« The market- 



€06 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

gardeoers at Hexham, in Northumberland, faa?6 
been known to sow their onions on the same piece 
of ground for twenty years in succession ; but they 
annually manure the soiL After di^ng and ^level- 
ling the ground, the manure, in a very rotten state* 
is spread upon it ; the onion seed is sown upon the 
manure, and covered with earth from the alleys; 
and their crops are abundant, and excellent in 
quality. This was stated in a paper communicated 
to the Horticultural Society some few years ago. 
Something of this culture was communicated to the 
author, when at Wrexham, fifty years ago^ where 
be observed the crops to be remarJuibly fine. 

For the general crop throughout the autumn and 
winter, seed of the Deptford variety should be 
diosen, and as much of the best ground as can be 
spared : that of a light rich sandy nature, pre- 
viously well manured in the early part of wintei) 
and laid up in ridges, will be much the best 

Take the first opportunity of fine weather, in the 
b^inning of March, either in digging the ground or 
laying down the ridges, which, being well broken and 
levelled, sow the seed evenly^ and not too thick, either 
in beds four feet wide, with one foot alleys, or broad 
oast The latter method is more generally adopted 
in market-gardens, where many acres are sown at 
one time; the former is more convenient in gar^ 
dens where acres are not sown. The seed having 
been sown, it will depend on the state of tht 
ground, whether it will be eligible to tread it in or 
not; though a gentle treading, in most cases, ii 
«erviceable, as, from observations made by seTerai 
'Persons, as well as by the author, the more the 



ONION. 207 

onion rises out of the ground^ the finer and better 
it keeps. In raking in the seed, it has been noticed 
that the lines or teeth of most rakes are, in general, 
too close ; consequently, if used to a proper depth, 
Ihey draw the seed up in heaps, thereby causing a 
very unsightly crop. 

In about three weeks the onions will make their 
appearance, when, if many weeds should rise among 
th^n, they must be cleared by the hand or a very 
small hoe. This is seldom used in country places* 
where young onions are a source of profit; but 
in large market^gardens round London the hoe 
is used as soon as possible ; the expert onion hoers 
taking them by the acre, at sixpence per rod, to thin 
them out with a two^rincb hoe, and keep them 
clean till July ; in dry seasons, four shillings a day 
may be earned in this manner, but considerably less 
if the weather is wet, as tha bargain stipulates for 
the total eradication of weeds before the end of that 
time. 

In about a month after the first thinning or 
weeding, the hoe should be used among them to 
the extent of three or four inches, which will finally 
set them out for the season. Nothing further will 
be required until tliey are pulled up for drying, ex« 
eept that in the event of weeds happening more or 
less to rise, they must be cleared off by the hand. In 
tret seasons, and often from late sowings, onions are 
^>t to grow thick-necked ; in such cases they should 
be gently bent down with the head of a wooden 
rake, which will check their rapid growth, and 
cause them to come sooner to maturity. 
• Some time in August^ the onions in general will 



208 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR* 

have attained their full growth, of which their stalkii 
and leaves give notice by shrinking, and assuming a 
decayed state. They should then be pulled up in 
dry days, and spread on a clear, firm piece of ground 
in the sun to dry and harden, and turned occasioiH 
ally. They are then to be cleared from rabbisb^ 
and housed for future use. 

In the winter and spring, such of the above-men*. 
tioned keeping onions as unavoidably sprout in the 
house, may be picked out and planted in beds to 
grow up, to draw for scallions, when time and qn 
portunity admit. The sooner onions are platted 
with dry straw into ropes for hanging up> the 
longer and better they will keep^ 

The second season for sowing onions is what 
may be called the Michaelmas, or winter crop? 
these should be sown (to draw for salads and other 
uses) in the second week in August ; but if intended 
for planting out in Springs not before the end of 
that month, or the first week in September. Thd 
seed should be sown in beds four feet wide, mode- 
rately thick and even ; and when the plants come 
up, liiey must be kept remarkably clean from weed^ 
by hand-weeding. They can be thinned gradufdly 
to the proper distance, by drawing them young for 
use. This is to be understood of the first sow- 
ing. The second sowing, as before observed, is foi' 
planting out early in spring, to produce fuU-sixed 
bulbs; for which purpose, a rich spot of ground 
should be selected, and the plants set in rows about 
nine inches wide, and six or eight inches from plant 
to plant. Nothing more will be required (except the 
hoe at times, to keep them clear of weeds), until 



ONION. 209 

J^iare drawn for use. Plants obtained in this 
iHBtifieVt from seed sown in August, and put out in 
Ukurch, grow to a large size, and come into use some 
^•eks before the general crop in autumn. To 
^uard against want, or a very severe season, such 
I»-1SS8, a small bed of the Welsh onion may be 
sown about the middle of August: this you will 
be sure of. 

'To raise onions for pickling, seed of the '' true " 
Reading kind should be sown thick in a bed, ac- 
oording to the quantity wanted, at the same time 
tiitt die general crop is sown in March. No further 
culture will be required, except hand-weeding, as 
their thickness in the bed will prevent their grow- 
ing large, and will cause them to come to maturity 
sooner, for market, where they will find a ready 
tele, not only for their earliness, but the evenness 
6i their growth, and bright colour. Such is the sort 
tbe author recommends, in preference to those 
(fdled silver onions, the excellence of which con- 
sists only in name, and not in taste or flavour. 

'Culture of the Potato Onion, — The qualities of 
dds valuable variety have been before described ; it 
dbly remains to give an account of its culture, the 
first hints of which the author received in Devon- 
shire, and he has since acted upon them with suc- 
dess. Prepare thoroughly a rich piece of ground, 
in which, after drawing shallow drills about a foot 
apart, plant the bulbs six inches distant in the row, 
dud cover them lightly over with earth ; keep them 
ifiear from weeds, and earthed up as they continue 
to grow, something like potatoes. Towards the end 
6f summer they will be- found nearly fully grown ; 

p 



210 THE VEGETABLS CULTIVATOR. 

when this is the case, they should be taken iip» 
dried, and treated similarly to other winter keeping 
onions. 

In the planting of this onion, the same thing is said 
of it in the above-named county, that is often said of 
shallots : '^ plant in the shortest day ; take up in tbe 
longest." It has been remarked, and the author 
can corroborate the fact, that the smallest onioDS 
used for planting swell and become very fine and 
large, and also yield offsets ; but the larger bulbs 
produce the greatest clusters. For the well keep- 
ing of this onion, a dry airy loft should be choseO) 
where they ought frequently to be looked over, and 
any bad or unsound ones taken away. 

m 

40. OXALIS.— Wood Sorrel. 

Oxalis crenata, the botanic name of this plant, 
is given from the supposed virtues of the foliage, 
which has a strong acid taste, like that* of our com- 
mon sorrel ; the specific crenata, from the plant 
being notched petaled. The botanic name is re- 
tained in preference to the English, because, hav- 
ing been first introduced by the former name, it is 
likely to be most popular hereafter. 

We are indebted to that worthy and indefatigahle 
collector of plants and seeds, Mr. Douglass, for 
this variety of the oxalis, and addition to our cu- 
linary vegetables, which is stated to be highly nutri- 
tious. 

From Mr. Douglass's account, we learn that this 
species of oxalis is a native of South America, grow- 
ing spontaneously in the neighbourhood of Lima, 



OXALIS. 21 1 

vhere the young leaves are much used in salads, and 
found in its medicinal qualities to be of the first im- 
portance to the inhabitants of that warm climate, 
being cooling and purifying to the blood. 

It was about the year 1832 that the oxalis was 
brought to this country, when it was planted by Mr. 
Lambert (a gentleman of great scientific knowledge) 
in his own garden, from which, most likely, from 
the number of tubers produced, many were dis- 
tributed among his friends. 

In the course of a year or two the root began to 
be much noticed as an esculent vegetable, and wa^ 
brought into much esteem by the recommendation 
of J. Mitchell, Esq., of Great Ropers Hall, near 
Brentwood, Essex ; who, at an entertainment, in- 
troduced a dish of the oxalis, which was highly 
extolled, and declared by all present to be more 
agreeable than the common potato, to which it is 
suppoiied, in nutriment, to come very near. 

Of its tastfe and flavour, Mr. Mitchell says it is not 
possible to convey an idea by words ; but, were he 
to attempt it, he would say they were those of the 
potato combined with the chestnut. 

In cooking, the time required for boiling de- 
pends on the size of the tubers : if small, ten 
minutes will be sufficient; and if larger, rather 
more in proportion. When they are done, and 
the water is drained off, they should remain a few 
minutes in the saucepan, which will add much to 
their taste and flavour. 

The oxalis, in growth, is curiously shaped, being 
neither round nor oblong, but broadest at the base, 
and tapering to the top ; the outside covering or 

p 2 



212 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

rind is a brownish-white, or yellow dotted with red, 
and much indented at the eye. The solid part has 
a yellowish cast, which indicates a richness, and is 
supposed to be highly nutritious; which seems to be 
the case, from the extensive orders given for the roots. 

Hitherto the experiments made in the cultivation 
of this root (of which a method will be given) have 
been very promising, and in many instances success- 
ful, considering that its culture is still in its infancy. 
This newly introduced vegetable is principally raised 
in the gardens of the affluent ; but how far it \7ill 
be worth general cultivation time alone can deter- 
mine; though much^ most likely, will be accom* 
plished by the efforts of the gardeners throughout 
the United Kingdom. 

The number and luxurious growth of the stalb 
have been a check upon a more general cultivation of 
this vegetable ; and the roots, in consequence, pro- 
duce a most numerous progeny, and are in general 
very small. To counteract such a flow of sap, it 
has been advised to cut down the stalks towards the 
end of summer : and as the tubers are observed to 
swell more at that time of the year than earlier, this 
cutting down of the stalks will be found of much 
service, by giving an additional weight to the tubenk 

The oxalis may be called a very accommodating 
plant, for it not only produces nutritious food for 
man, but its stalks, when in a green state^ are good 
fodder for cattle. Cows, sheep, and pigs, after a 
few trials, eat it with avidity. 

The oxalis may also be found to have some merit 
as a tart plant, from the stalks being succulent 
If it were peeled, &c., it would make a good sub- 



OXALIS. 219 

stitute for rhubarb ; and though it may not have all 
the medicinal qualities of that plant, it is wholesome 
and agreeable. 

When the Oxalis crenata was first brought to this 
country, it was treated as a green-house plant, by 
planting its small tubers in pots, where they rapidly 
increased ; but in the course of * three or four years 
it was found to be quite as hardy as the potato, and 
may be preserved throughout the winter in a similar 
way, or, when the heaps are not large, in dry sand. 

Culture, — Among the various methods recom- 
mended for the culture of the oxalis, but few have 
hitherto succeeded. So far as the knowledge of the 
author goes, one of the few was successfully practised 
by himself two or three years after the introduction 
of the plant. His method of cultivation was as fol- 
lows : first observing on the season, which may be 
done in the more southern parts towards the end of 
April, and in the more northern, towards the middle 
of May. 

For planting, the first matter to be considered b 
the size, and preparation of the sets : of the former, 
the largest and best ripened tubers should be chosen, 
as in every stage of planting the means of producing 
a larger growth in the tuber ; for the latter, the 
strongest single eyes, and never more than two, as 
these produce only a multiplicity of stalk, to the de- 
triment of the root In cutting out the eye, a good 
piece of the tubier must be left with it. When all are 
cut, they should be laid out thinly in an airy room 
for a day or two, when they will be ready for plant- 
ing. For that purpose,, a light rich piece of ground 
must be chosen, which has been weiU worked and 

p 3 



214 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

broken with the spade, to the depth of full twelve 
inches. On such a piece of ground, after it Ib 
prepared and levelled, drills may be drawn about 
two or three inches deep ; and if more than one row, 
they must be two feet apart. In the di*ills, the sets 
are to be planted at eighteen inches distance, and 
lightly covered at first, as they may have a little 
earth from between the rows thrown over them 
soon after they make their appearance. 

The only additional care they require during the 
summer is to keep the ground clear from weeds^ and, 
on the decline of that season, to cut down the stalks, 
for the reasons already mentioned. 

How long they may be allowed to remain in the 
ground will partly depend on the weather, as they are 
not so tender as they were at first supposed. Bat 
there is a certain criterion to judge by ; viz. when 
there is an appearance of decay in the stalk. The 
preserving of the tubers has been already glanced at 

A quantity of small tubers, if wanted, may be 
had in abundance by laying the young shoots, 
nearly to their tops, rather shallow between the 
rows, where they will emit roots or tubers at every 
joint : they may also be propagated by cuttings of 
the young shoots of about six inches in length, 
which must be covered with a hand-glass to facili- 
tate their rooting. 

41. PARSLEY. — Apium. 

Apium petrosilinum, — From the term apium 
being given to the parsley, it will be observed that 
it is classed with the celery. The specific name is 
derived from its supposed medicinal qualities. 



PAE8LET. 215 

The garden parsley with curled leaves is a native 
of Sardinia, bordering on the coast of Italy. It was 
not cultivated in this country until the year 1548* 
It is a most useful and pleasant vegetable, and was 
formeriy considered of service in dropsies and va- 
rious other complaints, but is now seldom used for 
tiliis purpose, except in Holland, where the large- 
rooted sorts are in much esteem. 

Parsley is in considerable demand for culinary 
purposes, and forms a common and beautiful 
garnish to most cold meats. It should always 
be brought to table when any dish is introduced 
strongly seasoned with onions, as it both takes off 
the smell, and prevents the after-taste of that strong 
root. It is a well-known seasoning herb, and com- 
municates an agreeable flavour to soups and stews. 

The following recipe may be of use to preserve* 
parsley for the seasoning of meats, &c., when five 
shillings are asked for a very small quantity ; and 
which is often the case in verv severe seasons. 

To preserve parsley for the above purpose, let it 
be gathered on a dry day, and immediately put into 
a tinned roasting screen, and placed close to a large 
fire, where it will soon become brittle ; it may then 
be rubbed fine, and put into glass bottles for use. 

Culture* — Parsley being so very valuable an 
article in the garden, and especially the curled sort, 
much care is necessary to keep it true. This can 
only be done by rouging, an appellation given by 
seed growers, who value their stock and character ; 
and to their credit their warranted stock may be 
relied on. 

Parsley is generally sown in drills round the 

p 4 



216 THE VEGETABLE. CULTIVATOR. 

borders of the kitchen-garden. It is a singular 
vegetable in respect of the long time it takes before 
vegetating : hence the seed should be sown early 
in spring, as it remains six weeks in the earth before 
.the plants appear ; they never vegetate in less than 
forty days, though they do not often exceed fifty. 
.Thus it takes longer to vegetate than any other 
garden seed ; but it may be observed that old seed 
comes up earlier than new. 

When it has apparently arrived at its full growth, 
it should be cut down ; but only a third part of 
what is sown at a time, by which means a young 
stock will be continually kept up for use ; and should 
any of the plain leaved happen to be mixed with the 
curled, they should be rooted out. These cuttings 
or gatherings will enable the plants to resist the 
severe weather much better than when left to re- 
main from a summer's growth. 

It was many years after the introduction of the 
common or garden parsley into this country, that 
the large-rooted, or Hamburg parsley, was intro- 
, duced from Holland, in which country large quanti- 
ties are used in their favourite dish, " water souche," 
being boiled with what are called Dutch plaice or 
flounders. 

The seed of this variety is best sown thin, broad- 
cast, in a bed four feet wide. An ounce of seed 
will produce sufficient for a moderate family. ' : 

The seed should" be sown on a well prepared piece 
of ground in the beginning of March ; and when the 
plants are of a proper size, they must be thinned 
out with the hoe, and managed afterwards similarly 
to carrots and parsnips : such as, taking them up in 



PARSLEY. 217 

the autumn (when they will be found of a large size); 
dearing them of their decayed tops within an inch 
or two of the crown, and laying them under cover 
in sand or light dry earth, where they will be ready 
for use. 

In regard to procuring fresh green parsley through- 
out the winter, and more particularly in severe* 
frosts and deep snow, it has been a matter of sur- 
prise to the author that, in all his visits to various 
gardens in almost every part of the kingdom, he 
has not observed any particular spot whereon 
parsley was sown, so that it might be protected in 
such a manner as to have it fresh and green at any 
time throughout the winter. To procure this de- 
licacy, let a rich, light, and warm spot of ground 
be chosen, on which, after being properly dug and 
levelled, mark out a bed four feet wide (which will 
take a frame, &c, hereafter, if there be one to 
spare) : the length to be fixed by what is likely to 
be wanted ; for a private family, fifteen to twenty 
feet will produce a good and sufficient supply. On 
that bed let seed of the best curled parsley be sown 
rather thin (not in drills), towards the end of May. 
The seed should be raked in and lightly beaten 
down with the back of the spade, and some fresh 
earth thinly strewn over the whole. Should the 
weather be very dry, a light watering must be 
given to the bed, and continued at times, if neces- 
sary. When the plants are of sufficient growth to 
admit of the hoe, let them be thinned out to full 
two inches in breadth ; after this hoeing the plants 
will, gain strength and keep growing, more or less, 
throughout the winter, by being protected, first bj 



218 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

frames, as already mentioned, or by mats ; the bed 
being previously arched over with hoops, and the co- 
vering regulated by the weather, which in some seasom 
may require an extra covering of fern or litter ; for 
as it is the nature of the common parsley to keep 
growing (when not checked by frost) the whole 
jear, its protection is an object of paramount im- 
portance. The author in early life gained much 
credit for his ingenuity, and many a smile from the 
cook on presenting her in severe frost and snow 
with fine fresh curled parsley, wherewith to relish 
her soups and decorate her dishes. 

42. PARSNIP. — Pastinaca Sativa. 

The botanic name, PastiruzcOy was given to this 
root from its nourishing and other good qualities : 
that of sativa has often before occurred in this worL 

The parsnip is a native of this country ; but im- 
proved by cultivation. It is a biennial, as most 
8ap-rooted vegetable plants are ; and though indi- 
genous in England^ it has been found in a natural 
state in other countries of the south of Europe, and 
there cultivated long before it was in use in this 
country. 

Parsnips contain a very considerable portion of 
sugar, and are more nourishing than carrots of 
turnips. 

Marmalade, made with parsnips and a small 
quantity of sugar, excites appetite ; and is said to be 
a very proper food for convalescents. 

Wine made from these roots approaches nearer 
to the nudmsey of Madeira and the Canaries than 



PARSNIP. 219 

any other. It is made with little expense or trouble^ 
and only requires a few years to make it as agree- 
able to the palate as it is wholesome to the body ; 
yet fashion induces us to give pounds for foreign 
wines, when we can obtain excellent of our own 
country for as many shillings. 

Parsnips, exclusive of their well-known use with 
saltfish and salted meats, form what may be called 
an elegant side dish at table; when, after being 
boiled (not too soft), they are dipped in thin batter 
of flour and butter or the white of eggs, and after- 
wards fried brown ; such a dish has been highly 
approved of at the first tables. Both the French 
and Dutch cooks make a very agreeable soup of 
them. 

The parsnip is a profitable and desirable root for 
a family in winter and spring, being wholesome and 
nourishing, and it should be cultivated abundantly 
in every kitchen-garden, not only for domestic 
use, but as a profitable esculent to the market- 
gardener and cottager. The latter will find it not 
only a useful vegetable for his family, but will also 
be a considerable gainer should he cultivate it 
partially vdth a view to profit. It has long been 
found excellent for the purposes above mentioned 
torn October till May.* 

Such, then, is the parsnip, as a horticultural 
vegetable ; for an agricultural purpose it has first- 
rate properties. Cows fed freely on parsnip roots 
will yield an abundance of milk of a rich quality. 
In Germany parsnips are sown for this express pur- 
pose ; and sheep, when lambing, if fed with them^ 
will produce much milki to the benefit of the lambs. 



220 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

The varieties of the parsnip are but few. 

1. Common, or Swelling Parsnip, is of ancient 
date, and good ; but it is now superseded by the 
following : — 

2. Guernsey Parsnip, an improved variety of the 
common, and in much esteem. 

3. Hollow Crown, or Headed, b of late introduc- 
tion. It grows to a large size, and merits cultiva- 
tion, being very hardy ; it is tender in its flesh, and 
of an agreeable flavour. The author, however, has 
found but little difierence between the taste of this 
and the other varieties when grown in the same soil 
It is owing to the deep rich soil of Guernsey that 

' the parsnips from that island are so much extolled. 
Culture. — The parsnip requires a good rich sou 
that has been trenched full twenty inches deep ; and 
if it has been manured the year before, so much the 
better. In the course of trenching, care should be 
taken (as advised for carrots) that the earth be well 
broken, and that neither lumps nor stones are left 
to arrest the progress of the roots in striking 
downwards (this must be done a few days before 
it is wanted, in order that it may become settled)': 
after it is levelled, the first fair day early in March^ 
the seed must be sown, either broad-cast or in 
shallow drills. The broad-cast sowing depends on 
the space of ground sown, which,' if light, may be 
lightly trod, and afterwards raked or harro>wied, in 
order to cover the seeds equally and to sniooth the 
surface; but in small gardens, drills are the; most 
eligible. In neither case should the seed be sown 
too thick, as the plants will require to be finally left 
from eight to twelve inches apart; much' however 



PARSNIP. 221 

depends on the nature of the ground. If the seed is 
3own in drills, these should be drawn shallow, full 
^'foot apart, and the plants thinned in the rows to 
nearly that distance. In about three weeks the seeds 
begin, to germinate ; and when the plants are about 
two or three inches high, they will require the , first 
thinning with a four-inch hoe, cutting up, at the 
same time, all weeds that may have arisen. Their 
second^hoeing should be within a month afterwards, 
when 'they must be finally thinned out to the re- 
gular distance above mentioned; and should the 
ground be remarkably good, a greater distance will 
be required. After the second hoeing and thin- 
ning, the plants may probably require another, 
weeding, till they are in full leaf, when they cover 
the ground, and bid defiance to any further inter- 
ruption from weeds. 

In the autumn, — about October or November, — 
the roots will have nearly attained their full growth. 
When the leaves begin to turn yellow and decay, 
which is a certain sign of ther maturity, they may 
be dug up for use, as they are wanted. Parsnips 
are not liable, like carrots, to be injured by severe 
weather: however^ the author made it a general 
rule to take the whole crop up before Christmas, 
dearing and laying them in sand, like other roots, 
under cover ; where, if properly protected, they will 
continue good till May of* the following spring. 

In taking up parsnips, the greater their length, 
the better they keep ; hence a trench should be 
opened of sufficient depth for a proper hold to be 
taken to pull them up, which is better than cutting 
them off with the spade. 



222 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

4 

43. PEA. — PisuM. 

Pisum sativum. The Latin name of Pisun tf 
supposed to be derived from Pisa (a town of Elis), 
where peas anciently grew in great plenty: tbe 
latter name has been often before mentioned. 

The English name is evidently a corruption of 
the Latin^ as both Tusser and Gerard (old English 
authors, who wrote in the reigns of Mary aad 
Elizabeth) called it peason, which, by the omiflskm 
of the two last letters, has formed the name of this 
popular vegetable for the last hundred years. 

At what period the garden pea was first culti- 
vated in England is left to conjecture ; but it was 
most probably in the reign of Henry VIII. ; though 
garden peas appear to have been rare even in the 
early part of Elizabeth's reign, and even those made 
use of were generally brought from Holland. But 
in the latter part of the same reign, gardening had 
made so considerable a progress, and, at the same 
time, the cultivation of peas, that a supply nearly 
sufficient to answer the demand, was raised in the 
vicinity of London ; and since that time they have 
more than kept pace with the increased population 
of the immense metropolis; and through the art 
and industry of the gardener this luxury is now 
furnished so plentifully that green peas are often 
sold at 4^. and 6^. the peck. 

Peas, when green, are a pleasant and nourishing 
food ; but they are considered somewhat flatulent ; 
though this quality may generally be corrected by 
the use of mint. They are excellent in sweetening 
the blood, and in correcting scorbutic humours. 



PEA. 223 

The following method of keeping green peas and 
French beans is given by a celebrated French au- 
thor (Sonninis) : •^«- Into a middling-sized stew-pan^ 
filled with young green peas, put two or three 
table-spoonsful of sugar^ and place the pan over a 
brisk charcoal fire. As soon as the peas begin to 
feel the heat, stir them twice or three times, and 
when they yield water, pour them out on a dish to 
drain ; when drained, spread them out on paper in 
an airy room, away from the sun, and turn them fre- 
quently, that they may be dry the sooner. It is 
necessary, for their keeping, that they should not 
retain any moisture ; for if they do they will soon 
grow mouldy. French beans may be managed in 
the same way^ and will thus keep till the next 
season, nearly as well flavoured as when first ga- 
thered* Peas may be dried when gathered green ; 
and are much better for soup than those gathered 
quite ripe. 

As the two following very excellent dishes, made 
from green peas, may not be in the immediate re- 
collection of young cooks, it will certainly aug- 
ment the reputation of the gardener who recom- 
mends them. 

The first is what has been frequently called de- 
licious " green peas soup," made of *^ marrowfat " 
peas nearly full grown. For this purpose any of 
the new kinds (the old dwarf marrow being nearly 
lost) will answer; but none better than Knight's 
tall and dwarf green marrow, as the pulp which 
such peas produce is the principal thing wanted. 

For making the soup, a good sized knuckle of 



224* THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

veal will be required, which must be put into three 
quarts of water ; and by the time this is reduced 
by boiling, to nearly two, the strength of the 
knuckle will be mostly drawn out ; but previously 
to this, the peas (full three pints or more), after 
being shelled, should be put in to boil (some boil 
the peas separately), and, when sufficiently soft, 
the whole should be strained off, the peas separated, 
and the pulp rubbed through a fine sieve. The 
pulp should then be mixed with what the veal was 
boiled in, and the whole should again be put into 
the stew-pan, with the addition of a good Cos let- 
tuce (either the white or Silesia), some " powdered 
mint," with the other seasoning of pepper and salt 
according to the taste. The whole should be al- 
lowed to remain in a moderate stewing state till 
the lettuce is thoroughly done, when the soup will 
be ready for table, with thin toasted bread : some 
advise a little ginger, but that is optional. 

The second dish, which was a favourite and 
fashionable one some fifty years ago, is made of the 
sugar pea, when young, dressed with the pods 
entire, requiring only the outside edges to be 
stripped off. These are to be put into a stew-pan 
with some good gravy, thickened with flour and 
butter, with a little mace, ginger, and nutmeg, and 
allowed to stew gently until the pods are quite 
tender, as they are unlike any other sort of pea, 
not having a tough coating inside the pod. The 
sugar pea dressed after this manner, forms a most 
delicate side dish at the table. 

There are numerous varieties and subvarieties oi 
the pea at present in cultivation : each successive 



PEA. 225 

season generally ushers in new ones, which are of 
course proclaimed by their possessors as being very- 
superior, and some of them really are so, as will be 
observed by the following notice of their qualities, 
&C. ; but very many are found, after a few trials, 
not to have such excellent qualities as to recom- 
mend them for general cultivation : hence they soon 
lose their popularity, and, after a while, are seldom 
heard of. 

1. Early Single- blossomed frame, a most excel- 
lent early pea, and very proper for gentlemen's 
gardens, where, if sown close to a south wall in 
November, with some sort of shelter, such as yew, 
fir, or such like, and as they advance in growth 
kept close to the wall with lines of packthread, 
they will very early show bloom, when, after a few 
on each branch are opened, they may be topped. 
By this means the author has raised peas fit for 
gathering, above a fortnight before his neighbours. 
The usual height of this pea is from three to four 
feet ; but as in this respect much depends on the 
weather and sort of soil, only the average height 
has been stated. 

This pea was first noticed accidentally by a me- 
chanic who had to go through a field of early Charl- 
ton peas, near Wingham, in Kent. The discovery was 
instantly communicated to Mr. Russell, proprietor of 
the Lewisham Nursery, who was indefatigable until 
he had a stock with which to supply his customers. 
There is another instance of the quickness of growth 
which the author will mention : he had an excellent 
crop of this sort of pea towards the end of October, 
from " new*' seed saved from four acres sown the 

Q 



226 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

second week in March for stock and " rouging," 
(which latter has been alluded to under the head of 
parsley) ; and it is to the adoption . of these means, 
and to the care and vigilance of the seed-grower, 
that we owe the perfection of the different sorts of 
peas at the present day ; and none more than the 
pea now treated of, whijch may be had equally as 
true and good as it was fifty years ago- 

2. Early Double-blossomed frame, a chance 
variety of the former, possessing nearly all its good 
qualities, with the addition of a double bloom in- 
stead of a single one, which has rendered it so very 
popular for the first principal early crop, either in 
the field or garden. With both sorts hundreds of 
acres have been annually sown in the neighbour- 
hood of Dartford, in Kent, for the supply of the 
London markets, during the season for which 
waggon loads in sacks are continually going night 
and day. 

3. Early Warwick (of late introduction), an im- 
provement of the double frame in the pod. It is 
certainly a good early pea, prolific, and averaging 
about the height of the early frame. 

4. Early Charlton, or Golden Hotspur, a chann- 
ing pea, if it can be had true, of which the author 
has his doubts. It was the leading early pea 
seventy years ago, and is still good to back either 
of the above sorts as a principal cro^. It is a 
prolific bearer, growing from four to hve feet in 
height. 

5. Early Racehorse. This variety is of very re- 
cent date, and has already become very popular. 
It is very prolific, grows to the height of not more 



PEA. 227 

than three feet, and is particularly well adapted for 
a first crop, coming into bearing ten days or more 
before any other sort in cultivation. 

6. Bishop's Early Dwarf. The name is very ap- 
propriate, as it does not grow (except in very warm 
and moist seasons) to much more than a foot in 
height. It is very early, most prolific, and, from 
its dwarfish growth, a first-rate pea for forcing : it 
requires no sticks for support, as a regular earthing 
will be sufl&cient. All other sorts of peas — at least 
such as are here described — are to be sticked, other- 
wise the taller varieties must be excluded from 
small and private gardens. Sticking not only, in a 
great measure, protects peas from the weather, but 
also causes them to produce a more regular and 
abundant crop. 

All the earliest crops, more especially those in- 
tended for culinary use, require to be sticked, or 
they will not come nearly so early : but where large 
quarters or acres are sown, sticks are out of the 
question, and recourse must be had to a regular 
. earthing, and the final laying down to one particular 
aspect, and if the lines or rows run from north to 
south so much the better. 

7. Marquis of Hastings, a fine large pea, which 
grows to the average height of four feet, and comes 
in rather late. 

8. Knight's Dwarf- wrinkled Marrow, one of the 
best of peas, and only exceeded by the follow- 
ing : — 

9. Knight's Green Dwarf wrinkled, without ex- 
ception the finest pea in cultivation. Its average 
height is from three to three and a half feet; it 

Q 2 



228 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

comes late, is very productive, the pods being al- 
ways very large and full, and the peas, when boiled, 
most delicious and well flavoured. The seeds of 
this variety are even sweet in their dry state, and 
are selected in preference to any other by the birds 
and mice : thus the saving of the seed is attended 
with considerable trouble, especially in cold un- 
genial seasons, and renders its cultivation very ex- 
pensive, but its productiveness, tenderness, and 
delicious flavour amply compensate for every out- 
lay. 

10. Dwarf Blue Imperial, a very productive pea, 
tender and fine flavoured : average height three feet 
It is, and deserves to be, extensively cultivated by 
the cottager and market gardener. 

11. Royal Dwarf, of late introduction, is good, 
from the average height not exceeding two and 
a half feet The pods come in clusters, and are 
very plentiful: it may be called a second early 
variety. 

12. Groom's Superb Dwarf. This pea grows very 
dwarf, not exceeding one foot and a half in height; 
it comes about ten days after Bishop's Dwarf, and 
is equally tender and fine flavoured, with the advan- 
tage of boiling very green. It is in much estima- 
tion for small gardens and for forcing. 

13. Scymetar-podded (so called from the shape 
of the pods) is a fine pea in taste and flavour, but 
does not yield quite so well as some others. It may 
be classed as second early, and averages three feet 
in height. 

14. Green Woodford, or Nonsuch. This sort boils 
remarkably green, and is even greener in its dry 



PEA. 229 

itate than any other variety. The height is three 
eet. It is very prolific, but the peas, unless gathered 
^oung, are not the most delicate, as they have rather 
;hick and tough skins. It is an excellent market 
yesL, and mostly cultivated as such. It comes in at 
he same time as the scymetar-podded. 

15- Dwarf Blue Prussian, a well known and ex- 
cellent pea. At one time it was sadly run out ; but, 
from the care taken by the seed-growers, it may now 
be had in its primitive state. These peas come late, 
which renders them most useful to sow with the early 
sorts in spring, and in the course of the summer, so 
that the luxury of U daily dish of green peas lyiU 
not be wanting, as the tall marrows follow up so 
closely. Blue Prussians, when dressed, are of the 
finest green, and very tender: no other sort produces 
a more regular crop. The average height is about 
three feet. 

16. Royal Victoria, a fine large marrow pea. 
From its recent introduction, the author has not 
been able to give it a trial, but he is informed it is 
of first-rate quality. 

17- Matchless Marrow. This is a large pea, very 
productive, and fine marrow-flavoured. It comes 
rather late, and grows from four to five feet high, 
and will therefore require tall sticks. 

18. Blue Spanish Dwarf is very similar to 
Groom's Superb, as is likewise the Spanish Dwarf 
or Fan to Bishop's Dwarf. There is but little or no 
difference between them : they are mentioned only 
on that account. 

19. Oyster Pea, so called from a singular rough- 
ness on the outside of the pods. It is a fine pea^ 

Q 3 



230 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

and very useful for a late crop. The average height 
is about four feet 

20. Waterloo, a fine large pea, and good for a 
late crop. It averages four feet in height, and is 
an abundant bearer. 

21. Tall Marrow. This variety has long been cul- 
tivated in our gardens under the above name. It 
was formerly considered an excellent and delicious 
pea, but in consequence of the superiority of some 
other kinds, it has lost its high character, and is 
now but seldom planted. 

22. Original Dwarf Marrow.^ Its height averages 
froYn four to five feet It has been wrongly named, 
but it has gone by this appellation during the last 
century. The true sort is nearly extinct, as what 
is at present sold for the dwarf marrow, though a 
good pea, grows much higher than the original, and 
the seed is more round and smooth. The seed of 
the original sort was much larger, and the outside 
of the seed or pea had a rough coating. It was a 
most prolific bearer, especially when it had sticks to 
run on. 

23. Dwarf Sugar Pea is of ancient date, having 
been first introduced from Holland above 100 years 
ago. It is a prolific bearer, and excellent for the 
purpose of stewing, as before mentioned. There is 
a tall variety of the sugar pea, but the dwarf sort 
has nearly thrown it on the shelf. The average 
height of the dwarf is from twelve to eighteen 
inches, or more. 

24. Knight's Tall Wrinkled Marrow Pea, of 
high repute from its superior qualities. It would 
be more cultivated but for the large space of ground 



PEA. 231 

ivhicli it requires, and the great height of sticks, 
^hich are not at all times to be obtained, as they 
Dught to be from eight to ten feet high. 

25. Knight's Tall Green Marrow, of late intro- 
duction, is a most excellent late pea ; and, if sown 
in the beginning of July, will keep in gathering till 
October. It is very prolific, and for all culinary pur- 
poses is in as high estimation as the dwarf variety. 

26. Tall Imperial, a fine pea, but in no way supe- 
rior either to Knight's Green Marrow or the Green 
Nonpareil. Average height from six to eight feet. 

27. Nonpareil Marrow should be good from the 
name. It is a fine late and prolific pea, and should 
have a place with others of a similar nature. Average 
height from six to eight feet. 

28. Egg Pea, so called from the large size and 
shape of the seed. This is one of the largest 
marrow variety at present in cultivation. It is 
certainly a fine pea and a prolific bearer, when it 
has sticks of a sufficient height to support it. The 
average height is from seven to eight feet. 

29. Spanish Marotto, which, with the next men- 
tioned variety, were leading peas at the first tables 
during the reign of George the Firsts but neither of 
them are at the present time in much repute. Still 
the Spanish Marotto will be found very useful 
where there is a large famrily to be supplied, as 
they keep in gathering some time longer than many 
other sorts, but they should have sticks, as the 
pods are large and generally well filled : the aver- 
age height is from five to seven feet. 

30. Roundcival, an old inhabitant of this country. 
There are four varieties; but the white and green 

Q 4t i 



232 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

are the best. They are very prolific, and, Kke the 
"Ejgg Pea and Spanish Marotto, very hardy, which 
qualities render either of them very beneficial to 
the cottager who can procure sticks to support 
them, such being absolutely necessary for their full 
production : the average height is about six feet 

One property in the Roundcival pea is, that it 
bears the droughts of summer better than most 
other kinds. Neither it, however, nor the Spanish 
Marotto, is so delicate eating as many others, and 
they are both now nearly out of date. 

The author has been induced to enlarge upon 
the list of peas, in order that the public may be 
guided in selecting such sorts as they may deem 
most suitable for their gardens ; he will only ob- 
serve, to those who have but small gardens and 
wish to make the most of them, that No. 5. in the 
list may be selected for the first crops ; Nos. 10, 11, 
12. and 15. for the second or medium crc^s ; and 
Nos. 9. 16, 17. and 25. for the third or latest 
crops. 

Culture, — The soil in which an early crop of 
peas is sown should be light, dry, and the more 
sheltered the better ; ai^d if it had been well 
manured the year before, so much the bett^) 
fresh dunged land being more an enemy than a 
friend to the peas sown upon it, as it causes them 
to run more to haulm. 

The land for the later crops, or such as are sown 
from March to July, should be (if possible) of a 
more moist and holding nature; otherwise much 
labour must be bestowed in watering during the 
months of June, July, and August. 



PEA. 233 

For the method of raising an early crop of peas, 
as practised by the author some score years ago, the 
reader is referred to the description given of the 
frame pea, under the head of varieties. 

There is another method, long practised, of 
sowing peas on warm borders either lengthways or 
across (the latter the most eligible), for which pur- 
pose the border should be laid on ridges of two feet 
breadth at the base (on the warmest side, near the 
bottom, let drills be drawn about an inch and a half 
deep, not more at this season), and after sowing the 
peas, cover them carefully up when they are observed 
to break ground, which they generally do towards 
Christmas; when sown about the third week in 
November, they should in some way be guarded 
against their enemies, by strewing soot mixed with 
slacked lime over the rows, or finely sifted coal 
ashes ; either will be a great check or preventive, 
as will also a light stirring of the earth on each 
side. 

After being sufficiently up (for a first earthing 
say about an inch high), the sooner they are sticked 
the better, if only for protection, for which purpose 
two rows will be required ; and on the side where 
the sun has the greater attraction, the sticks should 
be set thicker than on the other ; and the advan- 
tage will be very considerable^ if sticks can be pro- 
cured whose length will extend a foot more than the 
average height of the peas ; and as they should have 
a second earthing, the sticks will be no hinderance 
to it. In mentioning this subject, the author has to 
observe that the sticks, for every sort of pea that 
•requires them, should be of a fuU height, and not 



234? THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

set too close to the peas at the bottom, and by no 
means crossed at top, otherwise they lead the peas 
out of the way, and break down the pods when 
they begin to fill, thereby lessening the crop, and 
rendering it most inconvenient to gather. 

The most sure season for sowing the early kinds 
of peas for a principal crop, is about the end of 
November, so that they are up by the end of De- 
cember. But it frequently happens, should this 
crop surWve, that the same sort of peas sown in the 
beginning of February will not be a week later 
than those sown in November, which they often 
equal in point of gathering. 

The distance which peas require to be sown, 
from row to row, either with or without sticks, is 
various. The average height being ascertained, the 
distance can be regulated accordingly. Three feet 
will not be found too much for such as maybe 
called the Hotspur, as likewise for some of the 
dwarf kinds of marrows, or any that do not exceed 
three feet, while such as exceed that length should 
have four feet space between each row, and the 
taller kinds full five, while the dwarf kinds, as 
Bishop's dwarf, the Groom's superb or Spanish, will 
not require to be more than two or two and a half 
feet apart 

There is nothing gained by sowing peas too thick; 
and, as observed in the former part of this work, 
the broader the bottom of the drills for sowing small 
seeds (particularly for peas of a small size) the 
better; they should only touch each other. The 
same may be said of the newly introduced dwarf 
marrows, and others of a similar height For the 



PEA. 235 

tall and larger kinds of peas, particularly for 
Knight's tall wrinkled, the egg-pea, and such like, 
full an inch apart is required. 

In respect of earthing peas : such as are to have 
sticks should have two earthings : the first when 
they are a few inches high ; after the hoe is used be- 
tween them, a littleis to be drawn on each side ; and 
the second, previously to their being sticked, when 
six inches high. Those intended to be laid down 
may also have a little earth drawn up on each side, 
but not so much as to draw them from the side 
where they are to be finally laid, which should be 
the warmest of the row, and the earth should be 
in sufficient quantity to keep them in that position, 
by which means not only will the peas be strength- 
ened, but the wind will have less power over them. 

Where a constant succession of peas is required, 
they should be sown more or less every three weeks 
or a month — from February to July ; and, from 
the hint here given of sowing early and late sorts 
at the same time, a succession may be kept up, not 
only during the summer, but till October, and in 
some years until the middle of November ; for it is 
a well-known fact (which the author has proved) 
that Knight's tall green marrow, sown about mid- 
summer, will produce a supply from the middle of 
September till the end of October, or longer, should 
the weather continue mild and open. If it so hap- 
pens that the weather is very hot and dry when 
peas are to be sown, the following hints should be 
attended to : — After the drills are drawn they must 
be well soaked with water, and the peas likewise, 
during the previous night, which will cause them 



236 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

to come up quick, and keep them in a regular 
growth ; and if repetition of the watering is neces- 
sary, earth may be drawn up on each side the rows, 
which will contain water sufficient for the purpose, 
and not a drop will be wasted. ^ 

The following mode of sticking peas, and espe- 
cially the taller varieties, is both cheap and simple, 
and possesses many advantages. Procure a num- 
ber of strong thick stakes or thin poles, in length 
according to the height of the peas, — from hve to 
ten feet, and drive them into the ground on each 
side of the row, at the distance of three or four 
yards ; pass a small line along the poles, taking a 
turn on each, within a few inches of the ground, 
and, as the peas advance, raise the next turn a 
little higher, and so on in succession till they have 
attained their full height. Seize the tendrib of the 
peas and twist them round these lines, by which they 
will be supported in a better manner than by the 
common method of sticking. When spread regularly 
along the lines, they have a fine circulation of air, 
and pods can be pulled at all times without injuring 
the haulm ; and as the birds have no twigs to alight 
on, the portion of the crop which they otherwise 
would devour and destroy is saved. An excellent 
way to preserve peas or beans from mice is to chop 
up the tops of the last year's shoots of furze, and 
BOW them in the drills : the author has known it to 
have been an effectual remedy in several instances 
where these mischievous little animals had been 
very prevalent. 

Artificial culture, — Peas may be successfully 
raised so as to produce a very early crop, in hot- 



PEA. 237 

bed^ under glass, in pits, and also in early-worked 
peach or grape-houses. 

For forcing in hot-beds under frames: such should 
be made and earthed up as advised for kidney- 
beans ; and on the wl^ole a similar treatment should 
be adopted. 

For this purpose the peas should be sown in pots 
or pans, rather thick, and placed in a frame under 
lights, until they are sufficiently strong for transplant- 
ing, when they may be carefully taken up with the 
roots, as entire as possible, and planted in frames 
or pits, from front to back, in lines fifteen inches 
apart, and two or three inches asunder, giving 
plenty of air by day, should the weather admit of 
it; but keeping them well covered at night It 
may be observed that in whatever way peas are 
raised for forcing, they should invariably be trans- 
planted; indeed, it would be well worth while to 
transplant the earliest crops in the open ground. 

For peas in frames or pits the temperature may 
be progressive, beginning at 40° Fahrenheit, and 
raising it to 52° or 66^ from the commencement of 
the growth" of the plants to their state of flowering ; 
and after flowering, increase it from 55° to 70°, 
or in a regular heat between the latter limits. 
When they seem dry, moderate refreshments of 
water will be necessary ; but more especially when 
in blossom, and the pods setting and swelling tb 
perfection. 

Bishop's or Groom's early dwarf are to be pre- 
ferred to any other sorts for frames and pits ; and 
the single-blossom, early frame, or the racehorse 
for peach or grape-houses. 



238 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOIU 

The following excellent mode of raising an early 
crop of peas was communicated to the author, 
through that most useful of all works on garden- 
ing, Loudon s Gardener's Magazine, a few years 
since, and he has practised it with perfect success. 
About the first or second week in November, select 
six dozen pots of the 16 size, and fill them within 
two inches of the top with light rich mould. Then 
sow over the surface of each pot, with early frame 
or racehorse peas ; but not so thick as to touch 
« each other : little more than a quart will sow the 
whole. The pots are then filled up with the same 
mould, and placed in a cool frame or vinery, pro- 
tected from frost and the mice. In the first week 
in March they will be about six inches high, and 
the pots well filled with roots. Having made choice 
of a warm spot on a south border, they are now 
transplanted, by digging a hole sufficiently large to 
receive the contents of each pot ; care being taken 
not to disturb the roots, but to preserve the balls 
entire. They are planted in rows, four feet apart, 
and two feet in the rows, in the alternate or quin- 
cunx manner. If the nights should prove frosty, 
cover each tuft with a flowerpot, and take it off 
every morning, which prevents them from receiving 
the least check. At the latter end of the month 
the pots are taken away, and the peas are sticked, 
each tufib separately, and inclining a little outwards 
at the top, to allow the plants plenty of room to 
spread. This method is quite applicable to all 
dwarf-growing peas, which will never be found too 
thick : the air having a free circulation round each 
tuft, they begin bearing nearer the ground than 



POTATO. 239 

those grown in the usual way, and in parallel lines, 
besides being more productive. 

Peas are in general sown too thickly in drills, 
and by that means are drawn up so weak that they 
seldom produce any pods till they have arrived at 
their full growth, and then only near the top. 

By following the above directions a first dish of 
green peas may generally be gathered early in May ; 
and the number of pots mentioned will supply a 
family, upon an average, with three dishes of green 
peas per week till the other crops come in, the first 
or second week in June. 

44. POTATO SoLANUM. 

Under the ancient name of Solanum (which 
is not w'ell defined) is classed the Tomato, Egg- 
plant, and several other species, and, accounted of 
a poisonous nature. The nightshade belongs to 
this class, and is well known to be a deadly poi- 
son ; but the varieties above named, including the 
root of the valuable potato, have happily proved 
otherwise. This root has now, and for some years 
past, formed, alik^, the rich man's luxury and the 
poor man's bread. It is distinguished from the 
other varieties by the specific name Tuberosum, 
signifying tuberous-rooted. 

Potato, the English name of this vegetable, is 
derived from its similarity to the Battata, the sweet 
potato of South America. It is supposed to be a 
native of that country, being grown in the neigh- 
bourhood of Quito, where the Indian name of 
Papas (from the root) is given to it by the natives. 



^40 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

and which formed a part of their food. There is 
no doubt but from that country, while it was in the 
possession of the Spaniards^ the potato was early 
introduced into Europe, and particularly into Italy, 
where it was cultivated for some years before Eng- 
land was " blessed" with this ** invaluable root." 

The potato now in use was brought to Britain 
by the colonists sent out by Sir Walter Raleigh, 
under the authority of his patent granted by Queen 
Elizabeth, in the year 1584. Some of Sir Walter's 
ships sailed the same year, and returned in July, 
1586; but it seems uncertain whether he brought 
the potato root to England himself, or afterwards 
had it sent to him by Sir Thomas Grenville, or Mr. 
Lane, the first governor of Virginia. The potato 
was first introduced into Ireland by Sir Walter 
Raleigh, who had an estate in that country, where 
it was certainly used for food some time before its 
introduction into England ; and it is alleged that 
its virtues were communicated to England from 
some of the roots having been accidentally thrown 
on our shore from a vessel that was wrecked on the 
coast called North Meoll, in Lancashire — a place 
even now famous for producing this vegetable in 
great perfection. 

The potato appears to have been a great deli- 
cacy in the time of James I., but it was not until 
the year 1663 that it first became an object ol 
national importance, when a recommendation wai 
issued from the Royal Society to plant it in al 
parts of the kingdom, to prevent famine. Not- 
withstanding all this, it was a long time before 
potatoes were brought into general use ; and even 



POTAtO. S41 

I the authpr's time (above seventy years ago) they 
ere not held in the highest estimation. It was not 
U the beginning of the present century that they 
ere used as a substitute for com bread in the 
reiater part of England^ and then only through the 
ar of want. The lower classes, to whom this 
^getable is the greatest blessing that the soil pro- 
ices, forming as it does flour without a mill and 
read without an oven, were the last to become 
squainted with its value, so difficult is it to over- 
>me prejudices in certain minds. 
This palladium against famine was not cultivated 
Scotland before the year 1683. In 1728 Thomas 
rentice, a day-labourer, first planted potatoes in 
:e open fields in Kilsyth ; and the success of the 
:periment was such, that every farmer and cottager 
llowed his example. What honour does he not 
jserve? 

The discovery of this inestimable root has been 
' the greatest consequence to mankind ; and the 
iltivation of it has now become almost of equal 
iportance with that of com. Young, in his ac* 
•unt of Essex, so far back as the year ISO?* 
ites that Mr. Pittman, of Barking, in that county, 
18 one of the greatest growers of potatoes in the 
Qgdom, having in general 300 acres annually 
inted with this useful root, and sending to market 
00 tons, all washed ready for sale. 
It has now become a question of great import- 
ce, and one which deserves the most serious investi- 
tion, whether this root, justly styled the bread fmit 
Great Britain and Ireland, degenerates or loses 
y of its good qualities by the continued practice 



242 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

of raising it from eyes : the author thinks it does 
not ; the question is, however, open to discussion. ' 

On the quality of the potato^ as used for food, a 
few words will suffice. It is the most nutritious of 
vegetables, where it agrees with the constitution. 
But this is not the case in some few instances, and 
particularly where there is a spare or thin habit of 
body. To those who are in the habit of taking 
much exercise this root is excellent food, as it 
strengthens the fibres, and yields a very consider- 
able degree of nourishment 

Too little attention is generally paid to the dress- 
ing of it; for an indifferent potato becomes good 
when well cooked, and a superior one forms a 
delicious and most wholesome diet when cooked 
with attention. The following method was com- 
municated to the author by an Irish gentleman, who 
was most particular with regard to the dressing of 
his potatoes. It is extremely simple ; and, if gene* 
rally practised, few complaints would be made of 
the watery and seemingly half done quality of the 
potatoes so often sent to table. 

An untinned iron saucepan is always preferable 
for boiling potatoes. In preparing them they should 
never be peeled, or they cannot be well cooked, 
and much of their nutritious quality will be lost; 
they only require to be washed clean, and at 
farthest to be lightly scraped. After soaking for 
about an hour, put them into the saucepan with 
cold water enough to cover them, and when it begins 
to boil (which is the chief point to be observed in the 
cooking of them), let a teacup full of cold water (rather 
more or less according to the quantity) be put in, 



POTATO. 24'3. 

hich will check the boiling and allow time for the 
>tatoes to be done all through, without their being 

any danger of breaking; when they are suffi- 
ently soft, which may be known by trying them 
ith a fork, pour off the wd.ter, and let the sauce- 
in with the potatoes continue for a short time 
rer a gentle fire, and the heat will cause any re- 
taining moisture to evaporate, when, after having 
een peeled, they will be fit for table. By this 
lethod of cooking (if strictly adhered to) they will 
e found, especially if of a good kind, to be very 
lealy, floury, and delicately tasted^ 

Various counties and places have their favourite 
>rts ; which are perhaps equally good with those 
bove enumerated. That the soil and climate, even 
f this country, will alter the nature of the potato, 
he author can abundantly prove; for having planted, 
1 the vicinity of London, some very fine early and 
lealy sorts which he had received from Cheshire, 
ipon taking them up he found them both waxy and 
1-flavoured. 

There are two general kinds orchis plant, which 
re distinguished into the red-rooted, with purple 
lowers ; and the white-rooted, with white flowers ; 
»ut in raising the root from the seed, or apple^ 
mmerous kinds are constantly being introduced. 
The following are much esteemed and in general 
irculation, either for early or late crops : — 

1. Ash-leaved Kidney. This is certainly the first 
or early forcing, and also for planting early in the 
►pen ground. It is naturally delicate, of a dry, 
nealy nature, and very prolific. Two crops of 

R 2 



244 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 



this potato may be adTantageously raised on tie 
same piece of ground in the course of the year* 

2. Broughton Dwarf, so called from a Tillage itt 
Cheshire, where it was first raised. It has for a 
long series of years been called the eaiiy frame, to 
which it is entitled, and is nearly equal to the ash* 
leaved kidney for producing two crops in the comae 
of the year, on the same piece of ground. 

3. Foxe's Seedling, round shape, a prolific bearer, 
growing to . a larger size than either of the two 
first sorts : when cut it has a yellow caist, and ii 
much cultivated for the London markets. 

4. Manchester Red, similar in quality to the 
Broughton Dwarf, though not so much Gukiyated 
for the London market, and in the western part of 
England. 

5. Eariiy Champion, a very excellent early po- 
tato, and a good bearer ; its only fkult is that the 
larger roots are i^t to get hollow in a moist sear 
son, if left till autumn, but its other good qualitief 
fully make amends for this defect. This and Foze'f> 
Seedling take the lead at market. 

6. Early Mantey, a very excellent potato, a 
great bearer, and one of the first for a prineip^ 
crop, for use late in autumn and early Id winter. 
The above six varieties, if true, ought never to 
blossom. 

7. Shaw'^s Early, very similar to the Early Manley 
and Champion, one of the first rate for general use. 
The three last sorts are recommended to the cot* 
tager and market gardener, as they come early, and 
are generally of a large size. 

8. White Lancashire Kidney, is very mealy, and 



POTATO. 245 

of ihe most delicate taste and flavour ; but un- 
fortunately it likes home so well, that when it 
travels, it does not carry all its good qualities to 
its new place of residence. When removed from 
its native county it is seldom so good ; and in order 
to keep it in its genuine state, the potatoes for 
sets should be procured thence every three or four 
years at farthest. The same may be said of other 
sorts. 

9. Ked-topped or Red-nosed Kidney, one of the 
best, bringing the first price in the London mar- 
kets. But few other sorts are cultivated to any 
great extent in Yorkshire, whence large cargoes 
iure sent to London. It is certainly a potato of 
first quality, mealy, prolific, and keeps well* But, 
upon the whole, it seems to thrive best in that 
quarter, at least much better than in any more 
southern counties. 

10. Late Bright-red, a first-rate potato, mealy, 
prolific, and (by frequent turning and picking out 
the eyes, so as not to let them draw out the nourish- 
ment) keeps a long time, as the author, when in 
Devonshire, had them frequently in good condition 
till towards the end of July. 

11. Lancashire Fink-eyed, a good potato, mealy, 
keeps well, and grows its tubers or roots more even 
in size than most others. 

12. Purple^or deep red, good, and one of the best 
and latest keeping varieties. 

13. The Bread-fruit originated in 1810; it is pro- 
perly so named from its farinaceous qualities. The 
colour is a fine white ; it is very prolific, and as it 
kieeps well, is proper for a principal crop* 

R 3 



246 THE VEGETABLE CfTLTIVATOR. 

These sorts the author can confidently recom- 
mend, but, as before obsenred^- almost every town 
and district has its faTourite irarieties. 

From the above list the Oxnoble has been, 
omitted; it is rather a coarse potato, and more 
proper for agriculture than private .gardens. 

There are several varieties of the potato lately 
introduced, which are said to have the appearance 
of being new all the year round. A few, presented 
to the author by a gentleman in Southampton, cer- 
tainly had this desirable quality in great perfection) 
their flavour being extremely delicate, and indeed 
very similar to that of new ones; and without 
doubt, as the cultivation of this most useful vege- 
table continues to advance, many very valuable 
kinds will yet be discovered, to add to the comforts 
of mankind. 

Culture. — The culture of the potato, propagated 
as it is from the root, is so well known, that any 
laboured dissertation on that subject would be 
deemed superfluous. 

The first matter to be considered is the soil, 
which if of a sandy nature, is better calculated for 
the potato than a heavy soil, though both will do; 
but it may be observed that the roots come sweeter 
and much more mealy in a light than a heavy soil 
A light rich loam, neither too dry nor too moist, is 
best adapted for the growth of potatoes of the finest 
quality. 

To obtain new varieties of the potato from seed, 
(of which one single sort will produce a score,) 
gather the ripest apples, as they are caUed, in 
September or October; separate the seeds, and 



POTATO. 24f7 

wash and dry them from the pulp, and preserve 
them in paper bags till spring. About the middle 
6f April they should be sown thinly in shallow 
drills. When about two or three inches high, thin 
them to five or six inches* distance. Let them re- 
main (keeping the seeds down) till the end of Oc- 
tober, when the roots will furnish a supply of small 
potatoes. They must then be taken up, and a por- 
tion of the best preserved in sand for planting next 
spring in the usual way. Plant them, and let 
them have the ensuing summer's full growth till 
October, at which time the tubers will have ob- 
tained a sufficient size to determine their properties. 
Having considered not merely the flavour of each 
new variety, but the size, shape, and colour, and also 
the comparative fertility and healthiness, earliness 
or lateness, reject or retain it for permanent cul- 
ture accordingly. 

« Some persons, anxious to have new varieties, 
sow the seed on a slight hot-bed in February,- 
When the plants rise to a few inches in height, 
some light rich mould should be put between 
them; give a little water occasionally, with plenty 
of air at such times as the weather will admit. 
Towards the end of April prepare some trenches 
similar to those made for celery ; the plants must 
then be carefully taken up from the seed-bed, and 
planted at about eighteen inches distance, when ^ 
garden-pot should be placed over each till they are 
rooted, and they must afterwards be occasionally 
earthed up. The next year they will require a 
similar culture to that previously mentioned. 

Early potatoes in the open ground. The two 

R 4 



nS THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

best sorts for that puipoee are the ask-leaved kidney 
mad the Brighton dwarf or frame. 

Two methods of planting in the open ground 
have been practised with success, both in the sonA 
aad north of England, bat more particularly in 
Lancashire, where fine potatoes (raised according 
Id the following method) have been on sale in the 
Manchester market by the 13th or 15th of May, and 
in some years as high as three shillings a pound. 

For this purpose full^ized sets should be planted 
the first week in October, either on a south border 
or in any sheltered situation, (the more dry the bet- 
ter,) on which^ after having been well dug up, the 
potatoes should be planted eight or nine inches deep, 
and about ten or twelve inches asunder, covering 
them up, and leaving the border as light as possible; 
and as a good covering of dry mulchy litter will 
be required, a crop of radishes may be sown, which 
will be cleared off in March, as by that time the 
plants will be showing themselves above ground; 
and if the weather should happen to be severe, t 
covering will be requisite. When the plants are 
falAj up, the hoe should be applied, which, in the 
oourse of a fortnight or three weeks, will want a 
repetition. They need not be earthed up unless 
very much exposed to the wind, when a little may 
be drawn about the plants to keep them steady. 
By this method the author has known potatoes 
gathered, and that not in the most favourable situ** 
tions, before the above time. 

The second method is from single eyes ; and to 
forward their sprouting they should, early in the year, 
be laid upon dry straw in a warm loft or room, and 



POTATO. ^ 2W 

when sprouted to^the length of half an inch, or an 
inch, they should be carefully cut to a single eye,leav« 
ing a sufficient portion of tuber for support, and after 
laying a few days to dry, they may be planted in 
some warm place, from the middle of March to the 
beginning of April (choosing a dry time for that 
purpose), in drills about two inches deep, a foot 
between each row, and six inches apart in the 
row. The covering in such cases will depend on 
the weather. Ere now the author has planted the 
dwarf frame (the ash-leaved kidney not being then 
known), close under a south and west wall, which 
has come into use early in May. In the most 
southern parts of England potatoes planted whole 
in September have produced a crop of a good size 
at Christmas. 

Potatoes intended for keeping should be fully 
ripened before being* taken up ; and for storing 
they should be laid up dry, and not in too large 
heaps, either in pits or otherwise ; the pits should 
be three feet deep from the level of the ground 
(supposing them to be dry), from six to eight feet 
broad, and of a length according to the quantity* 
They are best protected by a sort of thatch, to 
keep out the wet and frost, taking care that the 
ground is sufficiently dry round the edges to keep 
out heavy rain or snow. There are many other 
ways of storing up potatoes ; the best is certainly 
that by which they can be kept most effectually 
dry, and at the same time free from the influence 
of fh>st. Putting them into close houses and co-> 
vering them well with straw is the most effectual 
method, and the one (when there is the conveni- 



250 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

ency) generally adopted. Placing the potatoes 
nearly upon a level with the surface of any spot of 
ground in a heap, and covering them with plenty 
of straw, then with turves, and lastly with earth, is 
also a simple and good method, especially if in very 
severe weather some dry mulchy stuff be thrown 
over the whole. Always be careful that the po- 
tatoes are in a dry state before being stored away, 
as in that lies the principal art of keeping them. 

In whatever place potatoes are laid they should 
be frequently looked over and kept loosened up so 
as to prevent them as much as possible from vege- 
tating, which, if it goes to any extent, will deprive 
them of much of their farinaceous quality. None 
suffers more from this than the ash-leaved kidney, 
on which account it should not be stored muck 
before Christmas, and should again be taken out at 
the end of February. If wanted for early planting, 
and the eyes are backward in growth, the method 
of forwarding them has been noticed. 

In preparing the sets for planting, one strong 
eye is sufficient for any sort of potato, whether 
planted early or late ; and in cutting, neither of the 
ends should be planted, these being more fit for the 
pigs, and, as before hinted, they are to be laid to 
dry for a few days previous to planting; and in 
planting, keep the eye uppermost, and the stronger 
the eye has sprouted so much better will be the crop. 

Potatoes of the middle size should be chosen foe 
the sets; and it is held to be a good method to 
sort the potatoes before cutting them, as the smaller 
ones, if wanted, may be planted closer together. 
. Fresh stable dung should on no account be used 



POTATO. 251 

«s a manure for potatoes, as its powerful saline 
•qualities not only affect tlie taste but also cause 
•ranker, while any undecayed litter lightens and 
gives free scope to the lateral shoots of the plant* 
Where manure is required, which is more likely to 
be the case in the market and cottager s garden 
than the gentleman's, the following composition 
•will be found to suit the potato, in whatever way it 
is applied, whether in the drills or in beds, covering 
the sets with it, more or less, according to the state 
.of the ground^ and the whole about two or three 
inches thick with mould : — 

Half rotten leaves of oak, beech, or- any other 
trees, i^^ith decayed horse litter, thatch, or such 
like, with a tolerable quantity of well-sifted coal 
ashes, the whole blended together, and applied 
more or less according to the state of the ground. 
If strong, it will be the means of lightening it ; and 
if moist, of keeping it open. 

Potatoes, with proper care, by going over the 
rows and rooting out such as have the least varia- 
tion from the sort planted, either in leaf, bloom, or 
root, may, when once established, be kept true to 
their kind for many years ; and, if planted annually 
on the same piece of ground, allowing at each 
planting a moderate covering over the roots with 
th^ compost before alluded to, or something simi- 
lar ; and, as a most essential matter, if the ground 
be kept clear of weeds, and as light as possible^ 
they will produce equally as fine. 

The time for planting potatoes for a principal 
crop rests principally with the proprietor or gar- 
dener, as they have been known to have done well 



252 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

from the end of March to the beginning of Au- 
gust ; and, as a case in point, there have been pro* 
duced on two acres two rood and twenty-four 
perch 858 bushels of fine potatoes, the gets not 
being planted before the 28th June. And the ash- 
leaved kidney, as mentioned by A. Knight, Esq., a 
gentleman to whom horticulture is so much io- 
debted,' when planted in a mild season, has produced 
650 bushels an acre, each bushel weighing nearly 
eighty pounds ; and great as this crop may seem, 
more have been produced on an acre, from two 
crops in one season, on the same ground : such is 
the astonishing increase of the potato. 

General otdture of the early and laie kinds of 
potatoes. — For the first early crop, either for the 
private market or cottager's garden, the following 
sorts are recommended : — Ash-leaved Kidney, 
Foxe*s Seedling, Early Manley, and Shaw's Early: 
they succeed each other, and are much esteemed 
in the London markets. 

For planting these early sorts, if on a small 
scale, when the plough is not used, deep drills should 
be drawn at eighteen inches' distance, and the sets 
put in from eight to ten inches asunder ; but more 
or less depends on how long they are to remain. Ill 
setting, let the sprout or eye be uppermost ; and in 
respect of manure for this crop, if the land should 
be in good strength manure may be omitted, the 
earth being drawn carefully over them. By this 
method of planting, the sets will come up more re- 
gularly, as well as the crop earlier, than when 
planted in a promiscuous manner, many with the 
bottom part upwards. 



POTATO. 255 

As soon as the plants are discernible^ the hoe 
should be used carefully, and as deep as possible* 
In about a fortnight or three weeks> more or less 
according to the weather, the same operation should 
be repeated ; and when the plants are eight or ten 
inches high, a little earth drawn up on each side 
will be of service, but if this is not done, they will 
be the sooner in want of a final earthing, which 
should be of a moderate height, and if drawn so as 
to form a sort of flat surface at top, so much the 
better, as it contains the moisture better than when 
drawn to a slope. Some persons allege that the 
earthing is of no service, and causes the potato to 
be of a more watery nature. Where the whole 
crop is to be taken off before coming to maturity^ 
an earthing may be dispensed with, but otherwise 
a full earthing is very necessary. 

For planting the large and late kinds of this 
root, two-feet rows should be allowed, and the sets 
should be ten to fourteen inches apart ; and whatever 
state the land is in, particularly if it is of a strong 
nature, manure must be applied, as it leaves the 
ground in a more pulverised state for any suc- 
ceeding crop. Should it happen to be the same 
as that taken off, still a little manure will be necet* 
sary. 

The author observed, when in Devonshire, the 
method which the cottagers take in planting their 
small allotments of land with potatoes, by which 
he has seen large and fine crops produced. It is 
similar to the method pursued by the peasants in 
Ireland, and is there called the " lazy bed" way 
of raising potatoes; but the term '< lazy" is not 



254 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

properly applied, as much of it consists in hard 
work. 

It is as follows : — ^beds are marked out from three 
to five feet wide, according to the nature of the 
soil, with from two to three feet alleys. The earth 
of the bed is then thrown out to the depth of four 
and five inches, and laid on each side : the bottom 
is stirred up, and the potatoes set from six to eight 
inches apart entirely over the surface of the bed, 
and what little manure they can get is sprinkled 
over them. They are afterwards covered about two 
inches deep with the earth thrown out in the alleys, 
and must afterwards have one or two more cover- 
ings (the earth being well broken with the spade) 
should they seem to want it. Where there is plenty 
of manure to be had for covering the sets, this mode 
of culture has produced most abundant crops. 

In many parts of England potatoes are stored in 
the same field in which they were planted, in mo- 
derate heaps or long ridges, covered with straw and 
earth sufficient to keep out the frost, by which 
means they keep well, but it is not convenient for 
turning them over, &c. 

The curl in the potato. — This is the distemper to 
which the plant is most liable. It shows itself very 
early in the season, by a curling in the leaves, and 
too frequently afiects the crop to an alarming de- 
gree. The cause of this disease is not yet perfectly 
understood ; and there are various reasons assigned 
for it. By some persons unripe tubers are sup- 
posed to be the cause^ by others a worm in the root, 
injudicious storing^ and letting the roots remain 
too long before they are turned over, which per- 



POTATO. 255 

laps is not done till they have grown out several 
Dches. This also causes a fermentation, whereby 
jvery original eye is forced into a shoot, which con- 
iderably lessens the strength of the sets hereafter. 
Jnder these and similar circumstances there is no 
*eason to expect a healthy growth or a good crop, 
\s it is quite impossible that plants with their ve- 
getative powers nearly exhausted, can fully de- 
velop their respective parts, and hence the foliage 
lufiers. 

For the prevention of this disease, change of 
^ed has been advised, which the author considers 
Tom long experience to be of the first importance ; 
t will in most instances prove efficient, but many 
)f the sets, if due care is not taken, will relapse into 
;heir old disorder. 

The author has tried many of the supposed pre- 
irentives, but found none better than idways plant- 
ing well ripened sets, and turning frequently over the 
heaps of potatoes intended for seed, to prevent a 
premature growth of the eyes. 

Artificial culture, — The term artificial is applied 
to all vegetables which require the warmth of dung 
or fire to bring them forward: and is therefore 
applicable to the potato in the present instance. 

Various are the methods by which potatoes are 
forced, such as in pits, frames, under glass, in pots, 
boxes, &c. 

Pits, in which cucumbers or melons have been 
recently raised, will do well for a very early crop 
of potatoes ; by taking the mould out to within two 
or three inches of the dung, or whatever else the 
pit has been filled with. On the surface plant well 



256* THE VEGETABLE OULTIVATOR. 

prepared sets, such as have been mentioned* at 
about six inches apart ; cover them with light dry 
mould to the depth of foor inches, after which a 
lining of hot dung may be appli^^ so as to tbrow 
in a moderate heat, to be renewed if found neces- 
sary. On the appearance of the plants, a little aii 
should be given, more or less according to the state 
of the weather, against which, if severe and frostjt 
they should be well protected by covering the lights 
with single or double mats. The more stockey 
the plants are grown, and the less they are drawn 
the better; slight waterings should be given at 
times, but no more than will keep the earth in ft 
moderate state of moisture. 

By the above method, sets, when planted early in 
November, have produced good sized potatoes in 
January. 

In the absence of either pits or frames, eariy 
potatoes may be successfully raised on dung hot* 
beds^ about four feet broad, (the length according 
to the want,) to be made with well prepared hot 
dung, about thirty inches in height, towards the 
end of February, and covered after the extreme 
heat is over, with three inches of light fresh mould, 
on which place the sets six inches apart, and after- 
wards cover them with the same sort of mould to the 
same depth as that put on the bed, which (to make 
the most of it) may be sown with radish and lettuce 
(the Cos variety). Both will be o£P in time (the one 
for use and the other for planting out) so as not to 
injure the sets in their growth. After the seed is 
sown, the bed having been previously arched over 
with hoops, or with something similar, must be well 



PURSLANE. 257 

fsovered either with mats or straw, but mats are the 
most eligible. 

Potatoes may be raised in pots or boxes for 
moving into the stove or any other forcing-house. 
If in pots, those of about six inches in diameter^ 
or those called 16^., should be chosen ; in these lay 
about two inches of earth on the bottom, on which 
place the sets, and cover them with about the same 
depth of soil. They are then to be removed into 
any forcing-house, as above mentioned ; and when 
the plants are grown to three or four inches high, 
some additional mould to that depth must be put 
round them. 

In boxes the only difference will be in the number 
of sets, which should be placed about four or five 
inches apart ; and when they are grown to the 
proper height, let them be carefully moulded the 
same manner as in the pots. 

45. PURSLANE. — PoRTuLACA. 

The origin of the ancient name Portulaca has 
exercised the ingenuity of the learned, but con- 
cerning it no explanation has hitherto been ad- 
duced. 

The purslane is a native of Europe, America^ 
and the East Indies. It is also said to be one of 
the few plants found on the little island of Ascen- 
sion. It was early introduced into France, and 
thence into this country many years ago. 

There are two varieties cultivated ; the green or 
garden purslane (P. oleracea), and the round-leaved 
golden purslane (P. anacampseros). They were 

s 



258 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

formerly much used in soups and salads, but at the 
present time^iittle use is made of them. 

Culture. — The purslane is a hardy annual, and 
easily propagated from seed, which should be sown 
in slight drills, or broad-cast over the surface, on a 
warm border, about the middle of April ; and when 
up about an inch high, they should be thinned out to 
the distance of five or six inches, and in six weeks 
they will have grown sufficiently large for use. In 
gathering them the young tops should be cutoff 
with a knife, and they afterwards shoot out again. 
The green sort is best, and chiefly used for soups, 
and the golden for salads. 

46. RADISH. — Raphanus. 

jRaphanus, the ancient name for the radish, is 
derived from a Greek word signifying quick, in allu- 
sion to the quickness of its vegetation. 

The native country of this well-known plant is 
not ascertained. Linnaeus mentions China, but does 
not state his authority. It is valued by us for its 
grateful pungency, and agreeable relish when 
mixed with salads, or eaten raw with bread and 
butter. 

There are some good medicinal qualities attached 
to radishes ; they abound with a penetrating nitrous 
juice, which renders them a good antiscorbutic. 

Radishes afford but little nourishment; and when- 
ever eaten, especially in a raw state^ they should 
be crisp, and not in the least tough, stringy, or 
overgrown ; neither must they be eaten to excess, 
as ill effects are apt to follow. 



BADISH. 259 

The syrup of radishes is as good as that of 
urnips for all complaints of the chest in which 
espiration is difficult, as well as for hoarseness of 
he voice ; it is also of much efficacy in the hooping- 
rOugh. 

Radishes make an excellent dish when boiled, 
nd served to table as asparagus. The seed-pods 
ure esteemed by many as an agreeable pickle, either 
done or mixed with other vegetables ; for which 
)urpose they should be gathered young on a dry 
lay, and pickled as soon afterwards as possible. 

The varieties of the radish most worthy of cul- 
ivation are the following : — 

1. Scarlet Short Top. — Of this there are sevend 
subordinate varieties ; but the scarlet is the leading 
ind best. The short-topped is most commonly 
)referred by the gardeners near London, as it 
*equires much less room than those with large 
ops. 

2. Purple Short Top : very good and early, but 
n part superseded by the scarlet. 

3. Early Salmon-coloured. — A fine crisp radish, 
md excellent for a second spring crop. 

4?. Long White Transparent — A very crisp and 
lelicate variety, which makes a pleasing contrast at 
able when mixed with the scarlet. 

5. Common or Long Purple. — The author re- 
collects this as a leading radish seventy years ago, 
mt it is now principally raised for the seed under 
he name of salad radish, and for producing the 
lods for pickling. When the green tops are re- 
[uired for salading, the seed is sown in drills for 

s 2 



260 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

th^ plants to be cut young, similar to mustard and 
cress. 

6. White Turnip-rooted is highly esteemed in 
the spring and early part of summer ; when young, 
it is very delicate and crisp. 

7. Red or Crinason Turnip-rooted is held in the 
same estimation as the last. 

8. Black Turnip-rooted Spanish. — This sort 
grows as large as middling-sized turnips ; the root is 
white within, but it has a black or dark brown skin. 
They are esteemed by many for autumn and winter 
eating, for which purpose the roots should be 
drawn before hard frosts come on, in a dry day in 
November, and after being divested of their leaves, 
laid in dry sand, as practised for carrots; if 
guarded from wet and frost, they will keep good in 
this way till spring. 

9. White Spanish. — This variety is principally 
cultivated for an early autumn crop, and when 
grown in a light sandy soil, will be found an agree- 
able addition to the salading at that season of the 
year. 

Culture, — The soil in which the radish seems 
to thrive best (either the long or turnip-rooted 
kind) is a light, rich, sandy loam, dry for early 
sowings, but more moist for the later. 

Few vegetables require less artificial culture than 
the radish, as the immense quantities sent to the 
London markets in March and April fully indicate. 
These are raised in oeds, the seed being sown in 
January and February, and covered with garden 
mats or dry straw for protection during frosty 
nights and bad weather. 



RADISH. 261 

When radishes are required early, the seed should 
be sown in a frame, if there be any to spare, about 
the end of October, and covered with the lights. 
The plants usually come up in about a week ; and 
when they appear, the lights should be lifted or 
taken off occasionally in favourable weather ; for if 
once the plants are drawn (which is the cause of the 
failure of many crops), especially if sown on a slight 
heat, they seldom make much progress aftei*wards 

Should they be too thick when fairly up, a 
thinning will be necessary to the distance of an 
inch and a half ; then, over the whole, give a light 
sifting of dry mould ; and by giving air when the 
weather will permit, and protection from wet and 
frost, fine young radishes may grace the table at 
Christmas. 

Where there are no frames to spare, the beds 
may be covered with mats over hoops, and the sides 
secured by boards and straw-bands. 

The best radishes for an early principal crop, are 
the scarlet long-rooted, and the red and white turnip. 
These should be sown towards the end of January, if 
the weather permit, in three or four feet beds, not 
too thick, in some warm sheltered spot in the gar- 
ien, and covered with straw or fern (this last, as 
before stated, is one of the best of coverings, admit- 
ting air at the same time that it protects). After 
the plants are fairly up, they should be carefully 
30vered at all times when the weather is likely to 
effect them, and frequently looked at, to see that 
they are not drawn up. When the crops have got 
their rough leaf, they should be thinned out, where 
they are too thick, to the* distance of two inches, as 

s 3 



262 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

there will be constantly more thinning by the daily 
drawing of the young radishes. 

For successional crops, seed of either of the sorts 
should be sown once a month or earlier, from Feb- 
ruary till June, choosing (if it can be had) a moist 
spot of ground, which will not only forward the 
growth of the crops, but increase the size of the 
roots, and render them more mild and crisp in eat- 
ing : it will also save much watering in the early 
part of summer; otherwise, in a dry season, the 
radishes will be hot and stringy. 

If the large salmon radish is required, the seed 
may be thinly scattered among the stationary crops 
of carrots, parsnips, or such like, and by coming off 
quickly, will not do any injury ; but this practice, 
especially when there is sufficient room, is not to be 
recommended. 

For raising the two sorts of Spanish radish, the 
seed should be sown about the beginning of August in 
beds ; these should be thinned to a greater distance 
than the common sort, as the roots come much 
larger. If the weather happens to be very dry at 
the time of sowing, a little moisture will be neces- 
sary to cause the seed to vegetate, and it will like- 
wise be of much service to the roots, in rendering 
them better flavoured and more tender. 



47. R AMPION. — C ampanula. 

The Latin name of this plant is derived from its 
bell-shaped flowers, and the specific rapunctdus 
from the root delighting in moisture. The English 



RAMPION. 263 

name rampion is considered a corruption of the 
latter. 

Rampion is a native of this country, and of se- 
veral other parts of Europe. It has a long spin- 
dle-shaped root of a whitish cast : the leaves grow 
close to the ground, till the stem shoots up into 
blossom about two feet high, in which state its 
bunches of blue flowers render it a very ornamental 
plant. 

The root is the part which is used : it is eaten 
raw, like a radish, and has a pleasant nutty flavour ; 
it is also sometimes cut into winter salads, and then 
the leaves as well as the roots are used ; but of late 
years the use of this vegetable has been on the de- 
cline. 

Rampion is a biennial plant, and requires a light 
rich soil. The seed should be sown as soon as it is 
gathered, when ripe, about the end of July or the 
beginning of August ; for if kept out of the ground 
till the spring, it often lays a year in the ground 
before vegetating. It does not bear transplanting 
well, otherwise plenty of plants might be procured 
from the self-^own ones. 

After sowing the seed, it must be lightly raked 
in, and when the plants are sufficiently up they will 
require to be thinned out to three or four inches 
apart, and, from their nature, to be kept in a toler- 
ably moist state throughout the season. In No- 
vember the plants will be fit for use, and wilt con- 
tinue good till April ; if wanted in frosty weather, 
they should be covered with some dry litter, as they 
are best if taken up when required for use. 



s 4 



264 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 



48. RAPE. — Var. Brassica. 

BrcLssica is the generic name of this plant; accord- 
ing to the Linnaean system, the original Latin name 
of napus is made the specific. 

Wild rape or navew is a native of Britain, and is 
exceedingly hardy ; it is chiefly used as a small 
salad, and is cultiyated for that purpose both in 
winter and summer, similarly to the mustard and 
cress. The seed of rape being cheaper than mus- 
tard^ large quantities of it are substituted for that 
herb in the London markets ; but it is not nearly 
equal to the latter either in virtue, tendemess,'^or 
taste. 

It is often cultivated by the country people and 
• cottagers, who find it a good substitute for greens 
during the winter; for which purpose it should be 
sown in July or August, and when of a proper size 
transplanted to half a yard apart ; and after being 
frost-bitten, it will be found tolerably good and 
tender. 

49. RHUBARB. — Rheum. 

The botanic name Rheum is supposed to have 
been given to the rhubarb from its superior medi- 
cinal qualities ; and its specific Panticumy as coming 
from Pontis : the other names are derived from the 
habit^of the plant. 

Th^G^^"®®'' True Rhubarb is principally grown 

in G&ioa, ;n4iere it is dried and prepared for export- 

\ &ivSBr It is chiefly purchased by the Turks, Jews, 

and Gentiles, who monopolise the trade as much 



nHUBARB. 265 

as possible, from which they reap a large profit, 
sending it to different parts of the world. 

Rhubarb has been for centuries held in the 
lighest estimation on account of its active medi- 
jinal properties ; few drugs being of more efficacy 
n various complaints. It is a mild cathartic, 
ind commonly considered as one of the safest and 
nost innocent of the substances of this class. Be- 
lides its purgative virtue, it has a mild astringent 
me : hence it is found to strengthen the tone of 
lie stomach, and to be one of the most useful 
)urgatives in all disorders proceeding from a de- 
)ility and laxity of the fibres. 

In addition to the qualities of the rhubarb above 
aentioned, it is allowed by all medical men to 
bake one of the most cooling, wholesome, and 
lelicious tarts sent to table ; many persons prefer it 
ndeed either to green gooseberries or apples. In the 
larly part of the season the stalks of rhubarb are 
:ut up and mixed with these fruits ; with the for- 
uer before they have obtained their flavour, and 
dth the latter after losing it by long keeping. As 
. plant, the rhubarb, particularly the Rheum pal- 
ncUum, is highly ornamental in many situations in 
he pleasure-ground ; its luxuriant foliage, height 
f growth, and large palmated leaves, render it 
triking and beautiful. 

The varieties of the Tart Rhubarb, by which name 
^ may be justly designated, form an object of much 
nterest and profit to the market-gardener ; and to 
be cottager it cannot be too strongly recommended 
s a most salubrious vegetable for his family, either 
1 tarts, puddings, or when baked whole in a dish. 



266 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

It is of the easiest culture, and can be planted in 
any light soil, either in an open or sheltered situation 
in any part of his garden. 

Few vegetables have made a more rapid progress 
in their cultivation, within the last forty or fifty 
years, than the tart rhubarb ; for not only are large 
quantities annually forced for the London markets, 
but many acres are planted for the same supply; 
and the waggon-loads of stalks tied up in bundles 
and sent thither during the season would almost 
exceed credibility. 

The following are the most esteemed varieties, 
which are cultivated more or less for the above 
purposes : — 

1. Rheum Rhaponticum — Rhapontic Rhubarb. 
— A native of Asia: introduced and cultivated 
since 1573. From the date it will be observed to 
be an old inhabitant of the English garden. 

2. Rheum undulatum — Waved-leaved, or Chi- 
nese Rhubarb. — A native of China; and intro- 
duced in 1734. 

3. Rheum hyhridum — Hybrid Rhubarb, a mixed 
variety. — A native of Asia ; and cultivated since 
1778. 

4. Rheum palmatum — Spreading, or Palmated- 
leaved Rhubarb. — A native of China and Tartary'; 
and first introduced into this country, according to 
the Hortus Kewensis, in 1763. The roots of this 
and the undulatum species constitute the drugs sold 
in our shops under the names of Chinese and Turkey 
rhubarb ; the other varieties also possess the like 
medicinal properties. 

There have been several attempts made to cul- 



RHUBARB. 267 

tivate the rhubarb for that purpose, and to prepare 
and dry it in a similar method to the Chinese ; but 
from some cause or other, and principally for want 
of a stock of roots of sufficient age, it has been 
laid aside. What had been prepared, however, was 
found equal to that of foreign growth. 

5. Buck's, or Elford Rhubarb. — This esteemed 
and valuable variety was raised from some seed of 
the Rheum undulatum, a few years ago, by a Mr, 
Buck (whose name it now bears), of Elford, near 
Lichfield, in Staffordshire. It comes very early, and 
may be forced in various situations, retaining its 
fine scarlet colour to the last, though it prefers 
darkness to light: its flavour seems to be more 
heightened than diminished. 

6. Tobolsk Rhubarb. — This variety is of late 
introduction, and is stated to be very superior for 
all the purposes of forcing : the author has heard 
it highly extolled by many who have given it a 
trial; and for delicacy and fine flavour it stands 
pre-eminent. 

7. Giant Rhubarb. — This is an excellent and 
profitable variety, producing leaves of an immense 
size, and stalks from two to three feet long, which 
are thick and fleshy, and abound with the fine acid 
juice : when cooked, they are tender and well-fla- 
voured. A few of this sort should be grown in 
every garden, and especially in that of the cottager. 

The Pontic and the Waved varieties, being the 
most hardy, are proper only for the open air, as 
neither improves by forcing ; hence a good stock of 
the Tobolsk and Elford should always be kept up 
for forcing. 



268 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

The Hybrid variety is said to be the most sue- 
culent ; and perhaps it might be so in some soils ; 
but the author could never observe any difference 
between it and the waved-leaved. 

Culture, — There are two methods by which 
rhubarb is propagated — from seed and from offsets 
or slips : the former is the best and principal ; the 
latter is only resorted to at times when the stock of 
plants is shorty or more particularly when they are 
required for forcing, as, by having good strong slips 
for that purpose, nearly a whole year will be gained. 
For making a permanent plantation, slips are by no 
means recommended, as they never root so well as 
seedlings. 

The soil most suitable for the rhubarb is a light 
rich loam, of a sandy nature, neither too dry nor 
too moist ; and where there is a depth of eighteen 
inches or more in such land, for the roots to run 
down, so much the better, as the plants will attain 
a greater size every way. 

In raising the rhubarb from seed, it should he 
sown about the beginning of April, in a three or 
four foot bed of light rich soil, the length being 
according to the quantity of plants required ; sow 
thinly, and afterwards carefully cover with the same 
sort of mould, about half an inch deep : should 
the weather happen at the time to be cold and 
unfavourable, a slight covering with a mat will be 
necessary. 

One or two seasons having proved unkindly during 
the author's practice, he had the seed sown on a 
slight heat, by which means the plants gained a more 
considerable growth by far than they would have 



RHUBARB. 269 

done without it ; but the practice, though some- 
times adopted, is not much to be recommended. 

As soon as the plants are fairly up, they should 
be thinned out to seven or eight inches distance, 
and so remain^ keeping them clear from weeds 
during the summer, and until they are finally 
planted out in autumn, at which time a piece of 
rich ground should be selected ; and previously 
to planting; a good coat of well-consumed dung^ 
worked in about a spade deep, will tend much 
to the vigour of the plants. 

The plants should be set out in a row or row» 
from three to four feet apart, according to the 
richness of the soil: if planted in the quincimx 
manner, they will have the advantage of more room 
and air. No further after-culture is required be- 
yond keeping the ground clear from weeds ; and in 
the autumn or spring giving a dressing of rotten 
manure, stirring it in as deep as possible with a 
spade or fork. Rhubarb so planted and treated 
will continue many years in perfection without de- 
caying. 

In taking the stalks for use, first scrape away a 
little of the earth ; then bend down the stalk you 
wish to remove, and slip it off from the crown 
without breaking it, and without using a knife. 
The stalks are fit to gather when the leaves are 
about half expanded ; but a larger produce is ob- 
tained by letting them remain till full grown, as is 
practised by the London market-gardeners. When 
the rhubarb is propagated by the root, care must 
be taken to retain a bud on the crown of each off- 
set, together with a small portion of the root itself> 



270 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

with, if possible, some fibres attached to it These 
offsets may be taken from roots of three or four 
years old, without injury to the plant They may 
be planted where they are intended to remaiO) at 
the same distance and in the same msurner as ad« 
vised for the seedlings ;. but, as before observed, 
they seldom succeed so welL 

Artificial Culture. — For forcing rhubarb the fol- 
lowing methods will be found to answer the expect- 
ations of those who put them in practice. The 
varieties which stand first on the list for this pur- 
pose are the Tobolsk and early Elford. 

For forcing in the open ground large pots will 
be required to be placed over the roots, and covered 
with fermented dung. When the plants are fairly 
up, which will be soon, and they are observed to 
get too large for the pots, larger pots must be sub- 
stituted in their room, or large hand glasses, if there 
be any to spare : they must be well covered with 
mats every night, and in unfavourable weather. It 
has been observed that under such a mode of cul- 
ture rhubarb comes very delicate and fine-flavoured, 
and quite equal to that forced in pots. 

In respect of the dung to be used in covering the 
pots, it may be noticed that it makes but little or no 
difference whether it has been previously prepared 
by turning, or procured fresh from the stable, pro- 
vided it is not suffered to heat too violently, as the 
internal heat should be kept to between 55° and 60^ 
of Fahrenheit. 

Those persons who dislike the trouble, and others 
who have neither large pots nor dung at command, 
may be told, that covering the roots of rhubarb in 



RHUBARB. 271 

he open ground with dry mulchy stuff about six 
nehes thick, will forward the leaves for use nearly 
I fortnight before those that remain uncovered. 

For forcing rhubarb in pots, plants of one (if 
itrong), two, and three years* old will be eligible, 
ind also cuttings, after one year's growth. 

As soon as the leaves are decayed in autumn, the 
)lants may be taken up and potted in deep pots, al- 
owing for an inch of earth at bottom, and the same 
thickness round and over the top of the root. The 
mould should be light and rich, and after the plant- 
ing a good soaking of water i^ill be necessary on 
purpose to fill up any hoUowness between the 
roots ; the pots are then to be placed in a vinery 
or in any part of a forcing-house, and where no 
other plants would thrive for want of light and air. 
When the rhubarb plants begin to grow, they must 
be copiously supplied with water, which will cause 
them to produce stalks for use, early, and in abund- 
ance. As it may be perhaps difficult to find a 
really dark place in a forcing-house of any descrip- 
tion, pots similar to those used for forcing in the 
open ground should be inverted over the pots of 
rhubarb, which will certainly exclude both light 
and air. 

After the plants have done producing stalks for 
culinary use, they may be turned out in a rich piece 
of ground, when after a year's growth they may 
again be taken up for the purpose first assigned 
them. 

Hot-beds, frames, or pits, where a gentle heat 
can be kept up, will do extremely well for forcing 
rhubarb, provided the glasses are kept darkened. 



272 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Care must be taken that the roots are planted of 
sufRcient depth to allow for the leaves growing and 
expanding to their full height and size. 

The advantages of blanching the stalks of rhu- 
barb are twofold ; namely, the desirable qualities of 
improved appearance and flavour, and a saving in 
the quantity of sugar necessary to render them 
agreeable to the palate, as the leaf-stalks when 
blanched are infinitely less harsh than when grow- 
ing under the influence of light, in open situations. 

The pots for the purpose of blanching sea-kail 
and rhubarb should be deep (particularly for the 
latter), and with covers to fit close, these being more 
convenient than taking the larger pots entirely off, 
tliough for sea-kail it will be necessary, as they re- 
quire to be cut close to the ground. 



50. ROCAMBOLE. — Var. Allium. 

- The generic name allium is the same as for the 
• onion, with which the rocambole is classed; the 
specific scorodoprassum is a compound word, signi- 
fying growing in bunches on the stem. 
. The rocambole, of which there is but one variety, 
is found wild in Sweden, Denmark, and Germany, 
and has been cultivated in this country since the year 
1596. It has compound bulbs, like the garlic, but 
much smaller : the root is heart-shaped, solid^ and 
generally stands sideways of the stalk : the stem rises 
from two to three feet in height^ and produces many 
small bulbs at the top of the joints, which may be 
made use of, as well as those of the root. Rocam- 



SAGE. 273 

boles are cultivated for the same purposes as garlic, 
and by many persons are considered milder ; but at 
the present time they are not in much estimation. 

Culture. — Rocambole may be propagated, either 
by the offsets of its roots, or by the cloves pro- 
duced on the joints of the stalks. The cloves are 
planted in the same way as directed for garlic, about 
October or November, as they generally grow to a 
larger size than when planted in the spring season. 
The richer the ground, the more cloves on the stem 
may be expected, which are considered more deli- 
cate than those from the root. 

5L SAGE. — Salvia. 

The ancient name salvia is supposed to allude to 

the healing and salutary qualities of the plant. The 

English word sage is derived from the French word 

sage (wise), having the property, it is said, of 

strengthening the memory. 

The Garden Sage is a native of rough stony 
ground in the South of Europe. It was first cul- 
tivated here in the year 1573. 

In ancient times sage was celebrated as a remedy 
of general efficacy ; but at present it is not con- 
sidered as an article of much importance in medi- 
cine. 

It is sometimes employed as a sudorific, and is 
also drank in the morning, in the form of tea, for 
strengthening the nerves or in cases of weakness of 
the stomach. 

Sage is principally used in this country as a 
seasoning for strong meats^ ducks, sausages, &c. ^ 

T 



£74 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Sage cheese is now not in much demand, though, 
in the author's younger days, seventy or eighty 
years ago, it was held in high estimation. 

There are three varieties of the sage generally 
cultivated : the Narrow-leaved or Tea Sage, which 
will be noticed in the list of physical h^rbs; and the 
Green and Red Broad-leaved, which are the two 
sorts to be preferred for culinary use, but more espe- 
cially the latter. 

Culture, — All the varieties of this plant are 
easily propagated by taking off slips or cuttings, 
and planting them in April in any light dry soil^ 
the less enriched with dung the better. Slips both 
of the former and the same year's growth may be 
used ; but the plants raised from young slips are 
generally the strongest and most bushy. 

All that is requisite in the after-culture is keeping 
them clear from weeds in summer, cutting down the 
decayed flower-stalks in autumn, and slightly dig- 
ging between the rows. 

In preparing sage for drying, the reader is re- 
ferred to what has been said under the head of 
Mints ; only, in gathering it, care and attention 
should be given not to cut the tops too close, so as 
to render the plants naked and stubby, especially 
when late in autumn and winter, as they would be 
more liable to suffer from severe frost than when 
the head is preserved somewhat full and regular. 
Sage, from the thick texture of its leaves, will 
retain its virtues, when in a dried state, for many 
months. 



SAVORY. 275 



52. SAVORY. — Satureia. 

The generic name of this plant seems most pro- 
bably to be derived from the Latin word saturoy to 
cram or satisfy, in allusion to its use in seasoning 
broths, soups, and stewed meats ; whence also arises 
its English name savory. 

There are two varieties of the savory cultivated 
for culinary use, both natives of dry open situations 
in the South of Europe. 

1. S. montana — ^Winter Savory: perennial, hardy, 
and shrubby. 

2. S. hortensis — Summer Savory. — A hardy an- 
nual. Its scent is sweeter than that of winter savory, 
and more like basil. 

Savory has a very hot, penetrating, and aromatic 
taste. It is an excellent seasoning for farinaceous 
food, as pe^, beans, &c., preventing wind in the 
stomach. It was formerly much used in cakes, and 
considerably more in made-dishes than at present. 
It has been cultivated in this country since the year 
1562. 

Ctdture, — The summer savory, being annual, is 
raised from seed sown on any light soil about the 
middle of April. When of a sufficient height, the 
plants are to be thinned out to about five or six 
inches apart, where they are to remain to be cut or 
pulled up occasionally for use, as they do not pro- 
duce a succession after being cut. 

If required for drying, the whole plant should be 
pulled up, and, after cutting off the extreme roots, 
dried similar to other herbs for winter use. 

T 2 



S76 THE VEGETABLB CULTIVATOR. 

The winter savory may be raised from seed or 
by planUDg slip6» which latter is the best method. 
If the slips or cuttings are planted in spring, they 
will readily take root, and form good plants, which 
in the autunm may be taken up, with baib to their 
roots, and transplanted out, in beds or rows a foot 
apart. 

The plants should afterwards be kept clear of 
weeds, and be managed in the same manner as has 
been directed for sage. * 

S^, SAVOY. — Var. Brassica. 

It will be observed, by the Latin name of the 
savoy, that it is classed with the cabbage tribe. 
This particular variety is known by the specific 
name sabaudoy from the wrinkled appearance of 
the leaves. 

The popular English name of savoy is derived 
from a district so called adjoining Italy, where it 
first originated ; it was first introduced thence into 
France, and thence again to England, about 150 
years ago. 

The same qualities are assigned to the savoj) 
with regard to nutriment, &C., as to the cabbage; 
and in order to make it quite as delicate and well- 
flavoured, it should always be a little frost-bittem 
and not allowed to get too hard before being 
gathered for use. 

The varieties in cultivation are but few: the 
following are the most esteemed : — 

1. Large Green Savoy. — This sort grows to a 
large size, nearly round, and a little flattened at 



SAVOY. 277 

Dp : it is principally grown by the market-gar- 
iener. 

2. Dwarf Green. — A very excellent variety, the 
lost proper for small and private gardens: it is 
ery hardy, and keeps longer in use than the other 
orts. 

3. Yellow Savoy is very good and hardy of its 
:ind : a few may be raised by way of variety. 

Culture. — The savoy, like all the rest of the 
^bbage tribe, requires a good soil, and one that 
las been previously well enriched with dung; if not 
;o, a good coat must be worked in at the time of 
lowing or planting : the former method is prefer- 
tble, as in very rich ground, or gi'ound newly 
nanured with rank dung, savoys and any of the 
trassica tribe are not so well flavoured. 

If savoys are required early, seed must be sown 
awards the end of March ; but for the principal 
jrop not before the middle of April, as then there 
Rrill be plenty of time for them to grow and get 
full-beaded before they are required for general use 
in November. The savoy is a very useful vegetable, 
uid every garden should have a share of them. 

Some authors advise three or fouf sowings for a 
succession ; but in private gardens the author thinks 
it needless ; much, however, depends on the ground 
there is to spare, and other local matters, of which 
the gardener will be the best judge. 

In regard to planting out, &c., the reader is re* 
ferred to what is stated under the head of Brussels 
Sprouts, as the culture of that vegetable entirely 
coincides with that of the savoy. 

It is sometimes customary to plant out the sum* 

T 3 



"278 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

mer crops between rows of forward beans, peas, 
cauliflowers, and other plants that stand at some 
distance apart, and soon come off the ground. By 
this practice some ground is gained ; but the plants 
are generally finest when planted out in a clear 
open spot, previously well dunged for their recep- 
tion. 

If the weather is dry at the time of planting, 
water must be given until the plants have struck 
root. 

All the after .culture is sintply to use the hoe to 
destroy the weeds, and to draw a little earth about 
the stems occasionally. 

As this is the last variety of the cabbage tribe 
the author has to treat of, a word or two on that 
fatal disease called the " Clubb," which severely 
attacks many gardens more or less every year, will 
not be out of place. 

The plants soon show that the disease has com* 
menced by the drooping appearance of their leaves: 
and on searching the root, there will be found a sort 
of maggot enveloped in a hard case, formed similar 
to a small nut ; this increases rapidly ; and on ex* 
amining the root, the small fibres will not only be 
found eaten off, but also the rind of that portion of 
the stem within the ground. 

This disease appears to be more prevalent in 
confined gardens, especially if heavily manured, 
than in open and free situations, and in light sandy 
soils more than in loamy ones. When once the 
disease is established, it can never be wholly enu 
dicated ; hence all young plants, before being 
planted, should be looked over ; and if the least bit 



SAL8AFIE. 279 

of ** clubb" is noticed, it should be carefully picked 
off, and, in the holes made for their reception, a little 
soot, mixed with lime, may be sprinkled ; but nothing 
has been found to arrest this disease better, than 
keeping the uncropped and vacant spaces of ground 
constantly dug and turned up to the influence of 
the weather. 

54. SALSAFIE Tragopogon. 

The botanic name of this plant is derived from 
two Greek words, signifying a goat and beard ; 
hence it is called in English, Goat's-beard, from a 
supposed resemblance of a portion of the plant to 
the beard of that animal. Salsafie is a species of 
the above ; and being the most popular name, and 
more generally known, not only in this country but 
in many parts of the Continent, it is retained in 
preference to the silly-sounding name of goat*s- 
beard. The specific name of this plant is porri- 
foliusy from the likeness of the leaf to that of the 
leek, Porrum, so called by the elder botanists. 

Salsafie is a hardy biennial, a native of meadows in 
Switzerland, Germany, and of some of the southern 
.counties of England, where it displays its purple 
flowers towards the end of summer. 

It is deemed wholesome and nutritious, and is 
much esteemed by the higher classes, in whose gar- 
dens it is principally cultivated. It has a sweetish 
delicate flavour, and forms an excellent variety and 
agreeable side dbh for the table, throughout the 
winter season. 

There are several modes of cooking this root: 

T 4 



280 THE VEGETABLE CCtTlVATOR. 

wheD dressed with creamy they are very delicious; 
but the following is recommended by the author 
one of the best Previously to boiling the roots, let 
them be lightly scraped, and then laid in water for 
about an hour, to draw out anv little bitterish taste 
they might happen to have ; this, however, is rarely 
the case, except when they are grown in moist heavy 
soils. After the roots have been in the water the 
time mentioned, they should be boiled till they ai^ 
quite tender, when they are to be taken out and 
laid to drain for a short time, during which a thick 
batter should be made with the white of eggs, beat 
up with a little flour, in which the roots are to be 
dipped, and, after having been rolled in crumbs of 
bread, fried with a small piece of melted fresh but- 
ter, previously put into the pan ; they should be 
frequently stirred, and when observed of a deep 
brown colour, they will be ready for table. 

The next mentioned vegetable (Scorzonera) may 
be dressed in a similar manner, and either of diem, 
or both, will form, when cooked after the above re-, 
ceipt, a most agreeable and delicious dish. . 

Culture. — The salsafie, as before observed, being: 
biennial, can only be propagated by seed, which 
should be sown in a light rich piece of groundf 
previously well worked to the depth of twelve or 
fifteen inches, towards the end of March, but not 
sooner, otherwise the plants will be apt to run to 
seed. The best way of sowing the seed is iA 
shallow drills drawn about a foot apart, where^ 
after being regularly covered, the plants will soon 
make their appearance ; and if observed to rise kl 
clusters, they must be thinned to the distance of 



80ORZ0NERA. 281 

two or three inches, either with the hand or with a 
small hoe. 

In the course of a month or six weeks, they may 
he finally thinned out to six or eight inches apart 
But little more will require to be done, except keep- 
ing them clear from weeds, till the end of November; 
when, after being cleared of decayed leaves, they are ^ 
to be taken up (taking care not to cut or injure any 
part of the root), and laid in dry sand for occasional 
use throughout the winter. When that season is 
mild, the roots are apt to take a second and early 
grovrth, which must be checked by their being taken 
out and relaid, otherwise much of their nutritious 
qualities will be lost. The same holds good in re- 
gard to all culinary vegetables of a like nature, when 
preserved in a dry state under cover. 

55. SCORZONERA.— Viper's-grass. 

The botanic name of this plant is placed first in 
this instance, from its being by far the most popular. 
The derivation of Scorzoitera and Viper s-grass 
arises from the similitude of the long tapering root to 
the body of a viper. This variety is distinguished by 
the specific name Hispanica, from its being a native 
of Spain. It was first cultivated in England in the 
year 1576. In regard to the qualities of this root, 
there is but little difference between it and salsafie ; 
if any, the Scorzonera is superior in point of delicacy, 
and perhaps would be more generally cultivated, if 
it had a greater substance of growth in the root. 

The same directions as were given for cooking 
the salsafie, will serve for this vegetable. 

Culture. — The cultivation varies but very little 



THE TEGETABX^ CULTIVATOR. 

Iran that of the sakafie ; the only difference is in the 
time of sowing the seed, which will admit of being 
done a fortnight eariier. 

56- SEA-KALE or Sea-Kail. — Crambb. 

Cnumbe tmaritiwia — Sea-Kale or Colewort^ — The 
botanic name of CraaAe is of ancient date, and snp- 
posed to be derired from the growth and habit of 
the plant. The specific mtaritima is from its being 
onlj found growing on the sea-«hore. 

Sea-kale is a nadre of the southern shores of Bri- 
tain : and there is none finer than what is to be 
found growing on the sandy beach round Calshot 
Castle, between the Isle of Wight and Southamp- 
ton. It also grows in great abundance on the sandy 
shores round the Bay of Dublin, and was for a long 
time used by the inhabitants of that city as a coli- 
nary vegetable, before the English thou^t of it for 
that purpoae. 

The use of searkale as an esculent v^etable is of 
recent date. The first person who brought it into 
repute was Dr. Lettsom, who had it under culti- 
vation in his garden in the year 1767 ; and at the 
same time the Bishop of Carlisle had it in his gar- 
den, where it was> treated like asparagus. 

About that period Dr. Lettsom wrote a short 
treatise on the culture and qualities of the plant, 
which brought it into more general notice ; though 
it did not establish the fiime of sea-kale as a culinarj 
vegetable of the first class, to which it is so well ear 
titled, so much as a treatise written a few years 
afterwards by that worthy and scientific . man, the 
late Dr. Curtis, with whom the author was well ao- 



SEA-KALE, 283' 

quainted at the time he lived at Brompton, near 
London. One day, when discoursing on the qua- 
lities of the sea-kale, the doctor observed, that in 
the course of a few years it would be the most po- 
pular, as it was the most salubrious, in the whole 
range of culinary veg«tables, — a remark which has 
been most truly verified. The doctor further ob- 
served, that all the good qualities of the cabbage 
tribe centred in the sea-kale ; and as a sweetener of 
the blood in spring, it cannot be too strongly re- 
commended, especially in such a country as Eng- 
land, where animal food is consumed in such im- 
mense quantities.^ It was also remarked at the time 
by the doctor, that the cottager, with trifling ex- 
pense and little trouble, might regale himself with a 
dish of this wholesome vegetable for many weeks 
throughout the spring, at which time it is of the 
greatest efficacy, and, with the rhubarb (noticed 
before), may save many a pound for medical at- 
tendance : besides he can say, with some degree of 
pleasure, " I grow my own medicine." 

Upon the whole, sea-kale is allowed to be one of 
the most valuable acquisitions made to our culinary 
vegetables within the last fifty years, none furnish • 
ing a more salutary esculent for four or five months 
of the most dreary season of the year ; and it has 
been observed that no vegetable improves more by 
forcing ; for by that means, the sea-kale produced at 
Christmas is m6re crisp and tender than any grown 
&t a more advanced period. 

For dressing sea-kale, the three following methods, 
as communicated to the author, may be of use to 
some of the readers of this work : — 



284* THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

The first is, that searkale growing in its natural ele- 
ment, near the sea-shore^ if intended for use, sbould 
be cut as soon as it is discernible ;* and after lying 
an hour in soft- water, should be boiled in two waters, 
in the first for about a quarter of an hour, and in the 
second (which should be boiling when the kale is 
put in) until it is sufficiently done for use: which maj 
be known by the softness of the stalk adhering to 
the bottom of the sprout. After being taken up, it 
should be laid to drain for a few minutes,* when it 
will be ready for use; and whatever disagreeable 
taste it might have imbibed from its salt-water bed, 
will by the above method of cooking be completely 
extracted. 

The second mode of dressing sea-kale is similar 
to the above, but, by its inland cultivation, it does 
not require a double boiling; only, previous to being 
dressed, it must be laid in water for half an hoar, 
when, after being well boiled, it should be quickly 
drained, and then sufiered to remain a few minutes 
before the fire, that whatever moisture remains may 
evaporate. The sauce generally used at table with 
sea-kale is melted butter ; a little capsicum or To* 
mata vinegar added to which, will heighten the taste 
considerably. 

The third mode of dressing (which will be found 
the most superior), is to tie the sea-kale in bundles, 
and boil it in plenty of water, with a little salt in it* 
for twenty minutes, observing that the water is boiling 
before it is put in ; have a toast ready, dip it in the 
water, put it on the dish and the^sea-kale upon it; 
pour a little white sauce over it, consisting of an 
equal quantity of veal gravy, and cream thickened 



SEA-KALE. ' 285 

with flour and butter. If desired, a less rich sauce 
may be made by leaving out the gravy, and substi-^ 
tuting milk for the cream. 

. Cidture. — No culinary vegetable hitherto intro- 
duced can be raised, either naturally or artificially, 
with less trouble, or with a greater certainty of suc- 
cess, than the sea-kale, as in both cases the same 
plants will last many years ; and in the annual forc- 
ing they give the gardener little or no anxiety, as 
there will be no fear of the bursting of boilers (in 
the hotrwater system), the firing of flues, or an 
over-heated dung hot-bed ; but in the end an almost 
certainty of success. 

^ There are three methods by which* sea-kale can 
be propagated — ^by seed, slips, and pieces of the root; 
but that from seed is the most preferable method, 
for which purpose any piece of ground that has 
been previously manured for other crops will 
answer. 

The seed may be sown from the middle of 
March to the end of April, either in drills, or 
broad-cast in a four-feet bed : the quantity of seed 
to be proportioned to the size of the garden; if 
small, about three pints; but if large, and much 
forcing is required, full two quarts will not be 
found too much ; the seed being inclosed in a shell 
renders it bulky. If the seed is sown in drills, 
such should be drawn with a broad-pointed hoe, 
about two inches deep, and either in drills or beds 
the seed should be thinly sown ; that in the drills, 
when covered, to be lightly beaten down with the 
head of the rake ; that sown in a bed, if the ground 
is light, may be beaten down with the back of the 



286 THE VEGETABLE CULTJVATOfU 

spade, and afterwards covered with about two 
inches of earth from out of the alleys. 

In about a fortnight or three weeks the plants 
will make their appearance; and should they rise 
in clusters, they must be carefully thinned out by 
the hand to an inch or so apart ; when of more 
strength, they must be hoed out to the dbtance of 
three or four inches. They will want but little to 
be done to them during the summer, except the hoe 
occasionally, to keep them free from weeds ; and in 
winter, after clearing them of their decayed leaveS) 
a little earth should be thrown over them. 

After one year's growth the seedlings will be 
found to have made strong healthy plants, and earlj 
in spring, ground should be prepared for those 
that are to be finally planted in ridges. For that 
purpose, a recently-manured and trenched piece of 
ground (the latter to the depth of fifteen or eighteen 
inches) should be chosen, where, after having a 
good coat of well-consumed manure forked in 
(which mixes it better with the earth than the 
spade), and the ground properly levelled, beds 
should be marked out four feet wide, with eighteen 
inch alleys. In the centre of each bed a line should 
be drawn, where the strongest plants, afler being 
carefully taken up, are to be planted at two feet and 
a half from each other, taking care that the crown 
of the plant is set two inches below the surface of 
the bed, to allow for the future rising of the crowns, 
which they are inclined to do more or less every 
year, being a lasting plant, and producing as strong 
shoots or sprouts at eight or ten years old as they 
did at three or four* 



SEA-KALE. 287 

After the strongest plants are taken out of the 
seed-bed for the purposes above mentioned, a few 
score, if as many remain of the seedlings^ may be 
planted out in a bed about six inches apart, ivhere 
they will be ready (after one or two years' growth) 
to be taken up for the different uses hereafter men- 
tioned. Should the weather be dry at the time of 
planting, a little water may be given, which, if re- 
peated at times the following season, and frequently 
stirring the earth round the plants, observing to 
cut down such as are going to seed, will cause the 
plants to be in a high state of growth for any use 
required, and particularly for forcing under pots, 
which is the most general and successful method to 
bring the above salubrious vegetable to perfection 
either before or after Christmas. The following 
process, if strictly adhered to, will answer the pur- 
pose. 

When the number of crowns or roots are deter- 
mined, they should be cleared of all decayed leaves, 
or whatever is growing near them. The bed must 
have about an inch of well-consumed manure lajd 
on it, and lightly forked in, which will strengthen 
the plants, and accelerate their growth. After the 
ground is levelled, the crowns are to be covered 
about three inches thick with some light sandy soil, 
none being sweeter or better than such as may be 
had from the bottom of a running stream or brook ; 
but by no means use coal ashes, for these, of all 
others, should be prevented from coming in con- 
tact with the blanching of sea<.kale, as the recep- 
tacle whence the material is taken is not in general 
the most agreeable part of the premises ; besides^ 



288 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

if the natural beach-grown kale requires two botfiogB 
to extract any disagreeable taste, coal ashes wiU 
certainly require three or four. 

After the crowns are finished, the pots (which 
may now be had at any of the potteries) should be 
put over them, and sunk a. little way in the eartk, 
carefully covering or stopping the holes, so as to 
exclude any rank steam from entering ; when that 
is done^ a layer of fermenting materiab, composed 
of fresh stable dung or litter, with a third of de- 
cayed leaves (if they can be had), should be spread 
all over each pot to the depth of fifteen or twenty 
inches, which thickness should be regulated ac- 
cording to the state of the weather, but taking care 
not to make the heat too strong, in case of injuring 
the young shoots by drawing them up in a weak 
state ; for, if a temperature of heat from 55^ to 60° 
can be kept up, it will be quite sufiicient for bring- 
ing this vegetable to a full growth for use. In a 
week or ten days after the pots are covered, the 
bed should be examined'; and if found to.be of too 
great a heat, the covering for a few days should be 
diminished, or, if otherwise, augmented ; and as a 
necessary precaution to guard against any sudden 
chillness, which often arises from heavy rains or 
snow, a temporary covering of dry litter or fern 
should be thrown over the bed or ridge, which will 
be found a security against any sudden variation in 
the temperature of the atmosphere. 

If in about three weeks from the time the covering 
begins to heat, and, upon examining a pot or two, the 
plants are found to have sprouts from six to eight 
inches in length, they may be cut for use, which is 



SBA-KALir. ' 289 

to be done by first removing a part of the earth 
and leaves round the head of the plant Cut such 
as are intended for use close to the crown, with 
part of it adhering, taking care not to disturb the 
young shoots that appear round it. The crowns 
are afterwards to be covered the same as at first, 
the pots replaced, and the covering put on ; and if 
any of the latter be observed to be much decayed, it 
should be taken away and replaced with good hot 
dung. By this means a regular heat will be con- 
tinued ; the plants will remain in a vigorous state 
of growth for six weeks from the first cutting, by 
which time they generally, have done their best ; 
the pots may then be taken away ; . the covering, 
however, mu§t be removed gradually, as the root 
and crown, by being forced, would probably be 
injured by the severity of the weather, were the 
entire covering taken away at once. 

When the plants are finally cleared of their 
covering, and the sand or earth laid round the 
crowns levelled, two or three inches of good manure 
should be put on the bed, which, after being forked 
in, will strengthen the plants for a vigorous growth 
throughout the season, and they will be found, from 
such a growth, in a high state for forcing any time 
throughout the following winter. 

Thus far on the culture of sea-kale from sowing 
the seed, the planting and the most general and 
successful method of forcing one of our most 
valuable vegetables, forming as it does a most salu- 
brious luxury throughout the winter; — a luxury 
unknown to our forefathers, though the plant is 
indigenous in this country. 

u 



290 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

Besides the above method of forclDg, sea-kale has 
also been successfully forced in frames, pits, or pots. 
If in frames, the same preparation may be made 
as is advised for asparagus, both as to the bed and 
earthing ; but, if in the latter, three or four inches 
more than is there mentioned will be necessary* 

The bed being ready, a sufficient number of 
plants, put out for this and other purposes, should 
be taken up, so as to fill the frame at six inches 
apart ; and, in planting them, the roots can be set 
to within three or four inches of the dung. When 
done, the whole is to be covered with light sandy 
earth to the depth of five or six inches, and two or 
three inches deeper after they begin to make their 
appearance ; when they should be totally excluded 
from the light, otherwise the sprouts would be tough, 
and lose much of their taste and flavour. 

How far it will be necessary to line the bed 
with hot dung, or give more or less covering, will 
depend on the weather; at any rate, the same degree 
of heat as mentioned for the pots should be kept 
up as regular as possible. 

Pits built after the excellent invention of M*Phaily 
should there be any to spare, will be found to grow 
sea-kale equal, if not superior, to those in frames 
on dung heat 

Where there is a stove, sea-kale may be very 
early raised by being planted in large pots, and 
placed in any dark comer, where, with a little 
moisture at times, they will bring good sprouts for 
the table. 

Finally, sea-kale planted in the open ground, and 
covered to the depth of ten or twelve inches with 



SHALLOT^ 291 

;any ligbt soil, will produce good sprouts, which will 
be found, on clearing the ground round them, to be 
finely blanched of a clear white colour, and when 
tiressed, nearly equal to those blanched under pots 
in the course of the spring. 

57. SHALLOT. — Allium. 

It will be observed, from the botanic name of the 
shallot, that it is classed with the onion tribe. The 
specific name, Ascalonicum, has been assigned to 
It from its being found near Ascalon, a town in 
Syria ; hence the popular English term scallion. 

Shallots have a strong but not un^deasant smell, 
and are therefore generally preferred to the onion 
for various purposes of cooker}-, and for making 
high-iavoured soups and gravies* They are also 
much used in pickles, particularly in the East Indies; 
and are considered by many epicures to be the best 
seasoning for the old English dish of beef-steaks. 

The shaUot was first brought to England in the 
year 1548 ; and we may safely conjecture that it 
soon found its way to the. breakfast- table of Queen 
Elizabeth. 

Ctdture. — The roots of the shallot which are 
bulbous, increase greatly by offsets, the largest of 
which are the parts of the plant proper for use. 

The bulbs are oblong and irregular, and seldom 
grow large : as they generally increase into clusters, 
they do not swell like roots that grow singly. 
. The soil best adapted for growing the shallot is 
a light rich sandy loam; but as such soils perhaps are 
scarce, any light dry soil that has been manured a 

u 2 



292 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

year or two before will do. They are propagated 
by dividing the clustered roots into separate offsets, 
and planting them in very shallow drills in February 
or early in March, or, as is frequently done, in 
October and November. When planted in autumn 
in a dry light soil, they often grow larger, and 
sooner attain full growth the following summer; 
but one thing must be guarded against, viz., too 
much wet, which is likely to rot the roots before 
they vegetate. 

The shallots should be planted in the shallow 
drills about six inches apart, and slightly covered 
over with earth. Soot, mixed with the surface soil, 
has been found of much service in preventing the 
maggot, which often commits extensive depreda- 
tions upon this plant The only culture which they 
require is that of keeping them clear from weeds, 
by occasional hand-weeding or hoeing. 

Towards the end of July, or beginning of 
August, the bulbs will have attained their full 
growth, as is seen by the decay of the leaves. They 
should then be taken up and laid out in some dry 
loft, when, after being thoroughly dried, picked, 
&c,, they are to be put up in bags, boxes, or tied in 
bundles by the stalks, where they will remain for 
some months fit for use. 

The author thinks the following method a safe 
and great improvement in the culture of the shallot; 
it was communicated a few years ago by A. Knight, 
Esq., President of the Horticultural Society. 

To guard against the maggot in shallots, Mr. 
Knight had them planted on the surface instead of 
burying them two or three inches deep in the soil. 



SHALLOT. 293 

The experiment was attended with such perfect 
success^ that he confidently recommended this new 
mode of culture to be generally adopted by every 
gardener. He advises the placing of a rich soil 
beneath the roots^ and raising it on each side to 
support them, till they become firmly rooted. 

This mould is then to be removed by the hoe, 
and water given from the rose of a watering-pot, 
when the bulbs in consequence remain wholly out 
of the ground. 

The growth of these plants, Mr. Knight adds, 
now so closely resembles that of the common onion, 
as not to be readily distinguished from it, until the 
irregularity of form, resulting from the numerous 
germs within each bulb, becomes conspicuous. 
The form of the bulbs, however, remained per- 
manently different from all he had ever seen of the 
same species, being broader and shorter ; the crop 
was also much better in quality, as well as more 
abundant. 

The few bulbs which were shown to the author^ 
raised after the above method, certainly surpassed, 
both in quality and size, all that he ever saw before, 
or since. 

Shallots if wanted early in the summer, may be 
taken up of a good size in June or July. 

The author has been the more diffuse on the 
culture of this vegetable, on account of the frequent 
occurrence of a deficiency, arising from various un- 
looked for causes. 



u 3 



S94» THE VEGETABLE ClTLTIVATOIt. 

58. SKIRRET. — SiUM. 

Siuniy the botanic name of this plant is an old 
Latin word, the derivation of which is uneertaiiL 
It is classed with the water parsnip, but does not 
partake of any of the poisonous qualities of that 
herb ; on the contrary, it forms a most nutritious 
vegetable, and would be more generally cultivated^ 
were it not for the large space of ground required 
to raise a quantity for general use. It is distin« 
guished by the specific sisarum. Skirret is a peren- 
nial plant, a native of China, and known in this 
country since the year 1548. The roots are com- 
posed of fleshy, oblong tubers, about the size of the 
little finger, and joined together in the crown or 
head. They were formerly much esteemed as an 
esculent, but are now laid aside to make room for 
roots of less value ; for when cooked similarly to sal- 
safie, or served up with plain butter^ they are declared 
by many to be the whitest, sweetest, and pleasantest 
of roots, besides containing a considerate portion 
of nourishment. 

Culture, — The soil in which the skirret thrives 
is similar to that advised for salsafie, viz* light and 
sandy; but if of rather a moist nature so much tiie 
better. It may be raised either by seeds or slips 
from the roots ; but the first is much the best me- 
thod, as in the latter mode the roots are apt to 
become sticky and fibrous. 

The seeds should not be sown before the second 
week in April, otherwise the plants are liable to run 
to seed in the early part of summer. Sow either in 
broad-cast over the sur^ice of a four-feet bed« for 



SORREt. ^95 

which about an ounce of seed will be sufficient ; or in 
shallow drills, ten inches apart ; the ground being 
previously well dug to a good depth. The plants 
generally appear in five or six weeks ; and when they 
can be sufficiently distinguished by their leaves, the 
ground should be hoed over with a two-inch hoe, and 
the planf^ properly thinned out to about the distance 
of eight inches. Nothing more will be requisite, ex- 
cept repeating the hoeing as often as necessary, in 
dry weather, to keep down the weeds. About 
Michaelmas the leaves begin to decay ; the roots 
are then fit for use, and will continue so till the 
spring. The longer .they remain in the ground 
during open weather the better; but on the approach 
of frost they should be taken up, cleaned, and laid 
in sand, like other roots. 

59. SORREL. — RuMEx. 

JRumex^s the botanic name of the dock, of which 
the sorrel is supposed to be a species. It is named 
by the Latins, from rumex, a sort of pike, spear, 
or halbert, which the leaves in various species much 
resemble in shape. The generic name by which 
this variety is distinguished is derived from acetosusy 
sour. 

Sorrel is found wild in grassy pastures through- 
out Europe, from the Alps of Lapland to Greece. 
It is now scarcely known as a pot-herb in this coun** 
try, except at fashionable tables ; and the small de- 
mand having now nearly banished it from the 
metropolitan markets, it fetches the price of dainty 
forced plants. This is owing principally to the 

U 4} 



296 THE VEOETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

caprice of fashion, which extends eren to our vege^ 
table food; rarity being more frequency coveted 
€ian excellence. 

The use of sorrel b of great antiquity, as are its 
medicinal properties, which, from its nature, are add 
and cooling. It is grateful to the stomach ; quenches 
thirst ; allays the heat of the choler ; and is an ex- 
cellent antiscorbutic. A handful of the leaves, boiled 
in a pint of whey, is an excellent medicine in April 
In short it is one of the most effectual remedies 
against the scurvy, if the leaves are eaten green, or 
their juice drunk, at the time above mentioned. 

The leaves of the wood-sorrel are said to excel 
common sorrel in aU physical virtues. In France 
there are few soups or sauces made without a po^ 
tion of sorrel; and in the vegetable markets in 
Paris the picking of it is as common as the shelling 
of peas in London. 

In England it is sometimes boiled as a sauce for 
roast meat, particularly veal and pork ; atid it is an 
excellent substitute for apple-sauce with winter 
geese. It should, like spinach, be put into a sauce- 
pan without water, except the little which remains 
on the leaves, after being washed. It should be 
boiled slowly, and then be beat up with a snoall 
piece of butter, and served at table as spinach. But 
to form a superior dish, the yolks of eggs and cream 
should be added to the butter. This is certainly an 
expensive way of dressing sorrel; but in the early 
•part of the author's life it was very frequent, eggs 
and butter being cheaper at that time than at pre- 
sent. 

The Laplanders boil the leaves of sornel in water, 



80RBEL. "^ 297 

and mix the juice, when coid^ with the milk of the 
reindeer, which they esteem an agreeable and 
wholesome diet. The Irish are generally fond of 
acids, and eat the leaves of sorrel with their milk 
and fish. 

There are two or three varieties of the sorrel in 
cultivation, but that called French sorrel is by far 
the best for all culinary purposes. It is a native of 
Provence, in the south of France, and can be easily 
distinguished from the English variety by the large- 
ness and thickness of the leaves, which are nearly 
•round : it also remains longer before running up 
into flower. 

Culture. — The sorrel may be increased by seeds 
and by parting the roots. The seeds should be 
sown in a bed or border early in spring, rakiug 
them in evenly. When the plants come up, they 
should be regularly thinned, and when of some 
growth, planted out in rows, in any light soil, about 
twelve inches apart, supplying them plentifully with 
water. The leaves will be fit to cut at the end of 
the same summer, and they continue for many years. 
Where plants can be procured by parting the 
roots, it will be preferable to sowing seed, as in 
that case the plants are apt to sprout too much, 
and the seeds saved from the best French sorrel 
cannot be depended on. 

The parted roots may be planted out in the same 
manner as directed for the seedlings, when they will 
furnish a plentiful supply of leaves the same sum- 
mer. They afterwards only require to be kept 
clean, and to have the seed-stems cut down, as. well 
as the overgrown leaves, in the autumn. 



298 THE VEGETABLS CULTIVATOR. 

If green sorrel should be required all the winter) 
a patch of the French sort must be protected early 
by a proper covering, to keep off the severity of the 
frost 



60. SPINACH.— Spi^acia. 

The botanic name of this plant is most probably 
derived from spinoj a thorn, on account of the 
prickly or spinous nature of its seed. 

Spinach is a hardy annual, and was first culti- 
vated in the English garden about the year 1568.' 
Its native place of growth is uncertain, but is sup- 
posed to be Spain. 

- Spinach, eaten freely, is laxative and cooling ; it 
has no hurtful quality ; but does not afford much 
nutriment. It is, however, a useful and grateful 
vegetable, and very wholesome ; and may be eaten 
in almost all kinds of diseases when no other vege- 
table would be allowed. 

The young leaves of spinach were used in salad- 
ing, not only in the time of Queen Elizabeth,* but 
as late as the days of Charles I. 

The leaves of these plants being of a very suc- 
culent or moist nature, must be boiled (as observed 
for sorrel) without water, except wjiat adheres to 
them in the rinsing, after having been washed. 

There are three varieties of the S. alertzcech or 
garden spinach, in cultivation,' which differ in the 
size and shape of the leaves, and the greater or less 
prickliness of the seeds. 

1. Prickly-seeded, or Winter Spinach: the best 
for winter crops. 



SPINACH. 299 

2. Round-seeded, or Summer Spinaeh: prefer- 
a.ble for summer crops. 

3.' Flanders Spinach : a newly introduced va- 
riety, sent a few years ago to the Horticultural 
Society in London. It is said to be superior to the 
common winter spinach from its not being so apt 
to run to seed prematurely : the leaves are also 
much larger, thicker, and more succulent, being of 
a dark green colour, and very luxuriant in growth. 
The seeds are like those of the summer spinach, 
but larger. The qualities of this sort must, there- 
fore, be excellent, and will no doubt answer their 
character in a highly cultivated soil ; for in such a 
soil the author has even had the old well-tried 
English sorts of an uncommonly large and fine 
growth. 

Ctdture, — The raising of these plants, which are 
annuals, can only be effected by sowing the seed 
every year. For an early sunmier crop the seed 
should be sown in drills,- not too thick, in the begin- 
ning of February ; and for a succession, once in 
every succeeding month till July. If a large sowr 
ing is required, the drills should be drawn a foot 
apart; but, as the season advances, there will be 
room for a drill between various other crops (for 
such as may be called temporary sowings). For 
the principal winter and early spring crops two 
sowings will be necessary ; the first in the beginning 
of August, the second at the end of that month or 
early in September. 

Spinach succeeds in any common garden soil; 
but the more it has been previously enriched with 
dung the better, and, for winter spinach especially > 



SOO THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

it is hardly possible to manure the ground too 
highly. Always select an open situation, not too 
near low spreading trees, &c. ; as in elose'and sbady 
places it is mostly drawn up weak, and soon runs 
to seed^ without attaining perfection. 

After the ground has been properly dug, the 
seed may ' either be sown broad-cast, in four-feet 
beds, and raked in, or in shallow drills a foot 
asunder. If by broad- east, and more than one bed 
is required, such should have one- foot alleys : sow 
all over the surface moderately thin, and if the 
land is light and dry, it can be trodden down evenly, 
and afterwards raked over, and, if dry weather, 
smoothed off with the back of a spade, th^ better 
to detain the moisture. If in drills (which is ge- 
nerally practised with considerable advantage), they 
should be drawn with a proper driirhoe, two inches 
deep, and about a foot apart : along each drill 
scatter the seed thinly and regularly, and then cover 
it over with earth, which beat down with the head 
of a rake, to prevent what little moisture it con- 
tains from evaporating too rapidly. 

The drill mode is often very proper and con- 
venient in sowing between other crops, as between 
wide rows of beans, peas, cabbages, &c., as it 
admits of hoeing up the weeds between the rows 
with facility ; and if sown thin and the plants are 
thinned out properly, they grow large and fine, and 
the produce is very conveniently gathered. 

The seeds generally come up in a fortnight, or, 
perhaps, if sown very early in spring, it may be 
three weeks or a month before they appear. 

In respect to the after-culture of the crops, when 



SPINACH. 301 

the plants have three or four leaves an inch broad, 
they should be thinned out to three inches apart, 
and cleared from weeds, either by the hoe or hand ; 
but the former will be found the most eligible, 
especially for the broad-cast sown crops. In about 
three weeks afterwards, they require (unless it is 
intended to begin thinning out the plants for use 
whilst young) to be again thinned out and hoed to 
six or seven inches apart, especially the spring and 
summer crops of the Flanders and round spinach, 
which, having proper room, will grow very large, 
and spread its broad leaves widely, and does not 
run to seed so soon as if left close. 

When the plants have leaves two or three inches 
broad, they will be fit for gathering. This is done 
in two ways ; either by cutting them up with a knife 
wholly to the bottom, or drawing and cleaning 
them out by the root, or only cropping the large 
outer leaves, the root and heart remaining to shoot 
out again. Either method can be adopted, accord* 
ing to the season and other circumstances. The 
author would suggest to the young gardener, who 
mostlikely has a table to serve in the depth of winter, 
when the ground is covered with frost and snow, 
whether it may not be necessary, in that season, to 
have one or more beds of spinach protected with 
garden mats or some other sort of close covering. 
Such matters speak for themselves, and require but 
little consideration, their utility being so obvious. 



302 THE VEGETABLS CULTIVATOR. 

61. SWEET FENNEL. — Anethum. 

Ane^um — JFcmundum-^tdce (sweet). Fcenic^' 
turn was the generic name of the common fennel, but 
was changed by the Linnsean system to Aneihumy as 
a variety of the Dill. That of dulce was added to 
distinguish it from the other varieties. The sweet- 
ness lies principally in the seed, which is sometimes 
used for medicinal purposes. 

Sweet fennel, more generally known by the Italian 
name of Finochia, is an annual, a native of the south- 
em part of Europe, and was introduced into Eng- 
land in the beginning of the seventeenth century. 

Finochia is but partially cultivated at the present 
time, as the taste and flavour are not much esteemed 
by the English gentry. The insipidity of the taste, 
however, is compensated in some measure by the 
method of cooking, which was communicated to 
the author as follows : — -- After laying about half an 
hour in water, it should be parboiled; and after 
being drained a short time, put into the stewpan 
with some rich gravy or sauce, there to remain 
until quite tender. But after all, it is a chance if it 
becomes a dainty dish (to use old Gerard's expres- 
sion), fit for a queen : it will however occasionally 
fill up a chasm, as a side dish at table. 

Culture, — Finochia being an annual, can only be 
propagated by seed, which requires .to be sown on 
a light rich soil, if rather moist the better, in an open 
situation ; and supposing that a large quantity will 
not be wanted, a line of eight or ten yards will most 
likely produce a sufficiency. 



TARRAGON. SOS 

About the beginning of April, the place being 
selected, and the ground previously well broken 
up, a deep drill should be drawn, at the bottom of 
which the seed may be thinly scattered and lightly 
covered. The mould lying on each side will be 
wanted hereafter ; and the reason why this seed is 
advised to be sown in a drill, is, because it will not 
bear transplanting, but must remain until it is fit 
for use. 

If the seed is good, it will be up in the course of 
eight or ten days, and after the plants have gained 
sufficient strength, they must be thinned out to six 
or eight inches apart., and a little earth drawn up on 
each side of them. They will want no further at- 
tention for nearly a month, except keeping them free 
from weeds. 

At the end of that time the plants may be earthed 
up similarly to celery, as high as they will admit of, 
and in about three weeks afterwards they will be fit 
for use, which is known by the blanched part being 
of a whitish colour. 

The stalks of Finochia (which form the edible 
parts), grow hollow, and swell to a considerable size 
in the middle ; hence they have a very singular ap- 
pearance. 

62. TARRAGON. — Artemisia. 

The derivation of the botanic name of this plant 
is uncertain. Tarragon is so called from the specific 
Latin word, dracunculus, or dragon's wort, on ac- 
count of its hot or biting qualities. 

Tarragon is perennial, and a native of Siberia 



SCH* THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

and Tartary ; by Gerard's account, it was cultivated 
in this country about the year 1548. It is fre- 
quently used in salads, especially by the French, 
to correct the coldness of other herbs. The leaves 
and young tops are used as ingredients in pickles; 
and a simple infusion of them in vinegar makes an 
agreeable fish sauce. 

The leaves are also eaten with beef-steaks, as 
l^orse-radisli is with roast beef; they have a fragrant 
smell, and aromatic taste. In England tarragon has 
of late years been much used in various kinds of 
soups. There is but one variety of this plant under 
cultivation for culinary purposes. 

Culture. — Tarragon can be propagated by part- 
ing the roots in April, and planting them in a light 
rich soil, but free from dung that is not thoroughly 
decomposed. It may also be increased from slips 
or cuttings, towards the end of May, and throughout 
June and July. Under a hand-glass, if there be one 
to spare, they will readily strike root. When well 
rooted, plant them out in some dry sheltered spot, 
five or six inches apart, where they will continue to 
thrive for some time. 

In many families tarragon is more or less wanted, 
both throughout summer and winter ; in which case, 
to keep up a constant supply, it should be forced 
in shallow boxes, placed in a pine-stove . or any 
other forcing house in work, and treated in the same 
manner as advised for the cultivation of mint under 
the same circumstances. As tarragon is but of 
short duration, more or less young plants, accord- 
ing to the quantity required, should be planted 
every year. 



THYMS. 20$ 



63. THYME Thymus. 

The botanic name of this aromatic herb is derived 
from a Greek word, signifying courage or strength, 
in allusion to its cordial qualities in reviving the 
spirits. 

The common garden thyme is found growing 
wild on stony hills in Spain, Portugal, the south 
of France, and Greece. The latter country wsts 
celebrated for its thyme, as is proved by the excel- 
lent honey which it afforded ; and it has long been 
known in England that the finest flavoured mutton 
is produced from those flocks which feed on the 
South Downs of Sussex, where there is an abund* 
ance of wild thyme. The highest flavoured venison 
is also considered by epicures to arise from the same 
cause. 

Thyme has an agreeable aromatic smell, and a 
warm pungent taste ; its medicinal qualities are said 
to be tonic and stomachic. It was formerly ex- 
tolled as a nervous simple, and was much used in 
an infusion, for reviving the spirits and relieving 
headaches. 

The culinary use of thyme is principally for 
broths and ragouts ; it is also a common ingredient 
in stuffings, to savour meats, and make them more re- 
lishing. The lemon-thyme is less pungent than the 
common garden thyme, but much more grateful; 
hence it is used as a seasoning for veal and other 
meats, where lemon-peel would be used, thus an- 
swering the purpose of two distinct spices. 

The common garden thyme, and the citron-scented 

X 



806 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

or lemon-thyme, are the only two varieties in cul- 
tivation for culinary purposes. 

Culture. — The first sort may be easily raised 
from seed, sown in the beginning of Aprils on light) 
rich, dry ground, which should be properly dug ov^t 
and the surface made moderately smooth with s 
spade. As the seed is small, it should not be soiwn 
too thick, or be covered too deep. 

The plants generally appear in two or three 
weeks, and when they are grown stocky, with bushy 
full heads, they may be transplanted to where they 
are to remain, in a bed or border, at six or eight 
inches distance; water being given till they are 
fresh rooted. Afterwards, occasional hoeing be- 
,tween the plants, and stirring" the surface of the 
earth, will much improve their growth. 

The cuttings and slips of the young branches 
grow readily, when planted in the spring season, in 
a shady place, and well watered; but the former 
method is preferable^ and attended with less trouble. 

Thyme that is intepded for winter use should be 
cut when in blossom, and after being well dried in 
the shade, hung up in paper bags. 

The lemon-thyme can be propagated either by 
slips or by parting the roots ; almost every bit of 
which will grow, provided they are planted in a 
light dry soiL As this variety spreads very fast, it 
is improved by being taken up, parted, and re- 
planted in beds about ten or twelve inches distance, 
every third or fourth year. 



rrRuiTFLs. 307 



64^ TRUFFLE. — Tubera terrje. 

The name of Truffle is derived from the Latin 
Htb&', or Uiberculunu The ancients called it Zy* 
eapercUm* Tubera terrcR signifies the tubers of the 
earth* 

The truffle is mentioned here merely as a memo- 
randum, with the view of stimulating the horticul- 
turist to its cultivation, which has hitherto been but 
partially attempted. That it may be cultivated with 
8ome success there is but little doubt ; but this can 
only be done by taking the truffle from where it is 
found growing, and laying it in a somewhat similar 
^tuation. This was practised many years ago by 
the Earl of Thanet's gardener, of whose success the 
author was an eye witness. 

This highly-flavoured vegetable substance was 
used in France much earlier than in England : 
the use of truffles does not appear to have been 
known to the English epicures in the time of Queeu 
Elizabeth. 

Truffles were formerly called swine's bread, as 
these animals are exceedingly fond of them. In 
Italy the usual method of finding truffles, called by 
the Italians tartufoliy is to tie a cord to the hind leg 
of a pig, and thus drive him, observing where he 
begins to root 

The present method of obtaining truffles in Eng- 
land is by small dogs of a peculiar breed, called 
truffle dogs, who hunt them by their scent. 

Truffles are very nourishing^ and are said to be 
strong stimulants. They are often eaten, peeled 

X 2 



308 THE VEOETABLB CULTIVATOR* 

raw, thinly sliced, and then soaked in wine, or only 
roasted in ashes. In Italy, France, and England, 
they are much esteemed as a great dainty, eitkr 
sliced and fried in oil, salt, and pepper, or thoroughly 
stewed in their own broth. They are often asedrii 
an addition and seasoning to meat pies, sauces, and 
ragouts, and a particular dish is made of tbem 
nearly alone. 

The flesh of truffles is solid, partly juicy, and 
partly dry, like the kernel of many fruits of trees. 
Before it is ripe the truffle has no other smell thaa 
that of the mouldiness of fertile earth, or decayed 
vegetables; but as it approaches to ripeness, it 
attains the truffle smell so i^reeable to epicures, 
which, at first, is fragrant, and often like musk; 
the nearer it approaches to ripeness, it becomes 
sharper ; and when too ripe, and putrescence or in- 
sects have begun to make their attacks upon it, it is 
disagreeable, and nearly resembles the smell of a 
cow-house. There are also truffles in many places, 
which difiuse a strong smell of garlic; but even 
these are agreeable to some palates. 

Truffles are extended over the whole surface of 
the earth, and are natives as well of the cold north 
as of temperate and hot climates. Linnseus foond 
them in Lapland, and Ksempfer in Japan, wber^ 
they are also eaten as a delicacy. They are du^ 
up in Africa, America, and in great abundance it 
many parts of Asia. They are found principally in 
the temperate countries of Europe, in England, 
Spain^ and France^ especially in the south of that 
country ; in Italy, in Switzerland, and In the nbrth 
iand south of Germany. Ju the last country ihsf 



TURNIP. 809 

^re abuDdant in the kingdom of Wirtemberg, and 
iQ .the grand duchy of Baden, along the Rhine. 
Notwithstanding the numerous plans which have 
been formed, and the many experiments which 
have been made, to effect the propagation of truf- 
fles by art, none, to the knowledge of the author, 
has yet entirely succeeded ; but much still remains 
to be investigated with respect to their nature, 
especially as to their origin and increase. As the 
editor of the Gardeners Magazine justly says, no 
instructions that we could give, either from the 

treatise of Bornholz or our own consideration of the 

* 

subject, will be of so much use to the gardener as 
&e -inspection of the soils and situations where 
truffles are found growing. 

65. TURNIP. — Brassica. 

Turnip, Srassicay Rapa. — The generic name, 
Brassica^ was given to this plant, according to the 
LinnaBan system, from the structure of its flowers, 
xnd JRapa, the original name, from the supposition 
tiiat the turnip was a variety of that root. 

The turnip has been long known in this country, 
but was only more recently introduced as a field 
arop, probably from Holland or the Low Countries, 
[t is found growing wild in England and France^ 
^ut its original native place has not been clearly 
iscertained. 

It is rather singular that the turnip, though so 
nany years in this country, should have been over- 
ooked as a culinary vegetable. The first notice we 
lad of it for that purpose was from the remarks of. 

X 3 



$10 THE VEGSTABLB COLTIVATOR. 

Gerard^ a name frequently mentioned in tikk irork» 
who says that turnips were not much grown in his 
time, except for domestic purposes, and then prin- 
cipally in the Ught sandy grounds round the tillage 
of Hackney^i near London (there is not mueh turnip 
ground there now) ; and that they were brought to 
the cross in Cheapside by the women of the viDi^; 
the cross at that time being tiie principal r^^ble 
market in London-^ a striking contrast to the wag- 
gon loads of turnips now sent in during the season. 

Turnips are accounted salubrious, but are some^ 
times liable, in weak stomachs, to produce flstuleney, 
and to prove difficult of digestion. They are often 
used medicinally in coughs, hoaiseness, and other 
disorders of a similar nature. The syrup of turnips, 
after being extracted by baking> and mixed with 
hdhey, has the same beneficial effect. They are 
principally used at our modem tables with boiled 
meat, for which purpose middle-sixed turnips are 
better then large ones, as the latter, being of a 
spongy nature, contain a greater quantity of water 
than tiiose of a snuxUer size. There is an ag^reeaUe 
dish made of mashed turnips, by first straining oat 
the water, and then mixing them up with some thin 
melted butter, senring them up to table as for roast 
ducks. They are most useful in broths, and make 
one of our best white soups. 

That turnips are nourishing h^s been proyed* In 
Wales, a few years since, they formed a consider«< 
able portion of the food of thp lower classes. 

To the above qualities of the turnip one more 
should be added, which is of the most essential 
service ; vizi. the enrichment of almost barren lan4. 



XURHIP. 311 

1^ its cultiyatioiiu . Besides, we have no plant, 
either native or exotic, that exhibits more striking 
instances of improvement, especially when we come 
to consider that they thrive best in arid or dry 
sandy and gravelly soils, where other plants would 
perish.; this altogether renders the turnip of the 
highest importance, and they must certainly be 
looked upon as a source of great wealth both to 
landlord and cultivator. 

Few are the varieties of the garden turnip, which 
are generally sown for culinary purposes. The fol- 
lowing will be found quite a sufficiency of sorts.. 

1. Early Dutch. — The seed of this variety should 
be had from Holland every other year, as it is apt 
to degenerate in this country, both in earliness and 
in running too quickly to seed. 

2. Six Weeks. — This is an earlier variety than 
the Dutch; but requires a moist season for its 
growth. I£ but a small bed is sown, and the wea- 
ih^ is dry, it must be occasionally watered. 

S. Yellow Altringham. — A variety of which the 
author has heard a good account, being similar in 
taste and flavour to the Scotch yellow, than which 
we need no better for the early part of winter. 

4w White Stone. — A leading variety, much cul- 
tivated for the London market : it is also called the 
Stubble Turnip, being generally sown after an early 
crop of wheat, which produces the sweetest turnips* 
This variety is cidled the stone, from its compact 
growth, and refraining for some time from getting 
holk)w or spongy. 

Ct^/^re.— The turnip will thrive in any piece of 
ground that has been previously well manured and 

X 4 



312 THE VEGETABLe gULTIVATOH. 

worked vith the spade, is it is ^om the finraea* 
of the parts that the turnip draws both growth and 
nourishment. 

The ground being selected, previously turned up, 
and levelled, a bed or beds, if in private gardens, 
should be marked out four or five feet wide^ on . 
which the seed for a first crop may be sown to* 
wards the end of March or b^^ning of April 
The seed should be sown rather thin (half an ounce 
or an ounce of seed will produce a considerable 
number of roots), when, after being lightly and 
regularly raked in, the surface may be levelled over 
with the back of a spade. The seed will soon be 
up ; and, should there be any appearance of that 
destructive insect the fiy, the bed must be thinly 
covered either with fern or any dry mulchy stuff, 
which, at so early a season, is preferable to soot or 
lime. 

As soon as the plants have formed their rough 
leaf, they must b^ hoed out to the distance of four, 
or five inches, after which they will want little or 
nothing done to them; and, should the weather 
have proved favourable, young turnips will most 
likely be fit for use towards the end of May, and 
perhaps sooner ; but, as before observed, much de- 
pends on the weather and situation. 

A second sowing in beds (as it often happens 
that many of the firH start for seed) should . be 
tnade about the middle of May. For these two 
sowings, seed, either of the Dutch or Six Weeks 
variety, should be chosen, as they are principally 
\tanted for early use. 
. For a more permanent crop a third sowing wiU 



TURKIP. SIS 

be reqaisite, in broad-cast, about the middle of 
June. For this purpose a good piece of ground 
should be chosen, on which, after being well broken 
up and levelled, the seed may be sown, lightly trod 
is, and regularly raked« As soon as the plants have 
got into rough leaf, they should be thinned out 
with a two>inch hoe, and in about a fortnight after, 
with a four-inch hoe, which most likely will set the 
plants at six inches apart. For this sowing and the 
next the White Stone is to be preferred- 

A fourth sowing, for a principal and lasting crop, 
may be made from the beginning to the middle of 
August. In hoeing them out they should be left 
full six inches apart. Any late variety, either of 
garden or field, may be sown at the same time ; 
but of the field turnip the Hertfordshire White is 
to be preferred. The author has had, in his time, a 
very excellent crop sown the first week in Sep- 
tember; at any rate, should the plants from this 
sowing not head, we may be sure of good turnip 
tops, which proved a very valuable article in the 
spring of 1838. They are a most salubrious vege- 
table when used in that season. There is another 
not nearly so much appreciated as it deserves, — the 
Swedish turnip, the sprouts of which are most deli- 
cious both in taste and flavour. 

Turnips may be kept sound and good for some 
time by being taken up in the latter end of November 
(first cutting ofi* their leaves to within an inch of 
the bulb), and placed in any dry pit or cellar, and 
covered with dry straw or fern; thus protected, 
they will be found most useful in frosts of long 
duration. 



314 THE VJEGBTABLS CULTIVATOR. 

la respect of that destructive insect, the fly, 
which so greedily devours the young turnip plants, 
the author has but little to say, as what has been a 
preventive one year may be of no avail the next; 
and numerous as have been the hints, su^estioxui 
and receipts, for the prevention of this insect, none 
that have come to the author's knowledge have 
proved effective, though they may iiave partially 
stopped their depredations.. 

After a number of years' observation, the autiior 
has found the most effective plan in dry seasons to 
consist in first soaking the seed in soft water, and 
immediately sowing it, after the ground is newly 
broken up. Another method is, previously to sow* 
ing the seed, to get a coat of well-consumed manure 
strewed over the ground on which the seed is to be 
sown, and harrowed or raked in, and afterwards 
trod in, or^ have a light wooden roller drawn over 
it A third method, w;hich has been found of much 
service, is soot mixed with slacked lime, to be strewed 
over the piece or beds early in the morning ; this 
method the author has found, aft;er many years' 
practice, to bt very efficacious. But there are two 
circumstances which he has observed to be more 
efficacious than all the rest, viz. a moist season and 
a clouded atmosphere. 

66. VEGETABLE MARROW. — Cucurbita. 

Cueurhita ovifera^ is the English name of this 
plant, which it retains only from its recent introdue- 
tion* Cucurbita is the generic name of the gourd, 
and omfera the specific, from the oval shape o^ 
the fruit. 



TBOBTABLS MARROW. 315 

The vegetable marrow was introduced within 
these few years from Persia, and has been found 
useful for culinary purposes in every stage of its 
growth. In a very youne state it b good when fried 
with butter; but the author recommends to let it 
have a more mature growth, when, after being par. 
boiled, it should be cut in quarters and stewed in 
good rich gravy, and seasoned to the taste ; in thi» 
way it will be found a very agreeable dish, whole- 
some and nutritious. 

The large or common gourd, which often grows 
to above a hundred weight, has a very thick flesh, 
and keeps well throughout the winter. In France, 
after being well boiled, the. flesh is taken out and 
mashed, in the manner of potatoes ; and should it 
happen to be tried in this country, it will be found, 
if not excellent, at least a tolerable substitute for 
carrots and turnips. 

Culture. '^ The seed may be sown about the 
middle of April, on a slight heat, either in a frame 
or under a hand-glass ; if in a. frame, the most 
convenient way will be to sow the seed in middle- 
sized pots, which should be nearly filled with some 
light rich earth, within which the seed should be 
pressed down half an inch. They will soon come up ; 
and, on showing a rough leaf, they must be taken up 
and planted two in a pot, similar to the cucumber 
or melon, but with more earth and larger pots. 
When finished, they will require a moderate heat 
and shade, with a little water, until they seem firmly 
rooted ; after which air should be admitted more or 
less, according to the weather, and that they may 
be gradually hardened to bear the open air when 



Si 6 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

turned out about the middle or third week in May, 
at which time some place should be selected to 
plant them in. They are not very particular as to 
the soil they grow in. Any light piece of ground, 
previously manured and broken up, will answer; or 
they may be planted on a heap of good manure, or 
on an old hot-bed ; in short, any place will do, in 
which they have room to extend their trailing 
branches, which often grow to eight or ten feet m 
length. 

For eight or ten days after the plants are turned 
out of the pots, they should be covered at night 
with a garden-pot, which will cause them to root 
earlier, and will prevent their receiving any sudden 
check from a change of weather. They require 
little further attention, except to clear them of 
■^eeds and to gather their fruit, in the produce of 
which they are very prolific, each growing a dozen 
Or more (supposing them to be cut young) during 
the season ; and the closer the fruit is cut the greater 
will be the quantity. 

' In saving seed of this variety, it should certainly 
be kept apart from any other of its species, other- 
wise the pulpy substance of the fruit will be less- 
ened in taste and flavour, and its present handsome 
oval shape will be deteriorated. 

67. WATER CRESS.— Sisymbrium. 

The botanic name of the water cress alludes to 
its warm and cordial qualities, which were thought 
to infuse life into dull and stupid persons, and to 
brighten the understanding of those who eat of it i 



WATER CRESS^ 317 

hence the ancient proverb, "eat cress and learn 
more wit." 

Water cresses have been famed for their anti- 
scorbutic quality ; and they may be eaten at all times 
of the year, but more particularly in the springs 
"Create a demand, and you raise a supply," is a 
proverb exemplified in the manner by which the in- 
dustrious mechanics of the immense metropolis of 
England are furnished with this purifying plant ; 
for scarcely is there a street so obscure, or a court 
so humble, where a March morning is not ushered 
in by the chaunt of ^* fine spring water cresses." 
They are often brought from distant countries^ and 
sold by the sack. Many other good qualities be- 
sides those mentioned above are assigned to the 
water cress, and it is particularly recommended to 
the English, who (as before observed) consume so 
great a quantity of animal food. 

Water cresses are found growing in clear rivulets 
and springs throughout Europe, from Sweden to 
Greece, as well as in North America. 

No British plant is in such popular request as a 
salad herb, the young leaves having a pleasant warm 
pungent flavour, and being supposed, like the scurvy 
grass, to purify the blood. 

Before entering on the culture of the water cress, 
a few words may not be amiss in describing the 
genuine sort, as the gatherers of this herb, either 
through ignorance or some worse motive, often 
substitute a spurious kind in its place, which is 
generally the creeping water parsnip, Sium nodi* 
fiorum, a plant with few medicinal qualities, and in 
some respects pernicious. 



318 THM VBGBTABMt CULTIVATOR. 

Both the sorts have winged leaves like those of 
the rose or ash trees; the water cress b of a 
roundish heart-like shape, with few indentures on 
the edges, much resembling the first leaves of tlie 
•radish; the upper part of which, after more ma- 
ture growth, is of a reddish-brown colour: those 
of the water parsnip are of a light green, and of 
an oblong shs^pe, ending in a point, and regularly 
serrated at the edges. 

Culture* — Water cresses are most esteemed 
when grown in running streams and a gravelly soil 
Those who can introduce water through their 
gardens may plant the roots in the spring in a kind 
of canal of six or twelve inches depth of water. 
After these plants have been sufiered to seed, the 
bed will become one mass of cress for many years ; 
if the descent is considerable, it will be necessary 
to form little dams to prevent the current from 
washing up the roots. 

Those who have large pieces of water on thdr 
ground may obtain them by the simple process of 
throwing the plants on the surface of the water, 
when they will ripen their seed and soon propagate 
in abundance. 

Of late years, many acres of water cresses have 
been planted, for the supply of the London markets, 
in the low lands of Essex and the adjoining counties, 
and more especially where the land can be irrigated 
and drained at pleasure. 

The soil on which the plants thrive best is in 
such situations where there is a 'strong loam; 
here beds may be formed three or four feet wide, 
in which plants may be set either in March or 



WIKTKR CRE8S. 319 

Aprils at about six inches apart, and watered. They 
will soon establish themselres, and the only culture 
they iirill require afterwards is to keep them gene- 
rally in a moist state during the summer, as the ab- 
sence of moisture would be destructive to a number 
of plants. If kept in the state mentioned, they will 
continue for a number of years growing and pro- 
ducing in abundance. 

68. WINTER CRESS. — Erysimum. 

Erysimum prcecox^ early hedge mustard. The 
English name denotes its qualities; in taste it is 
nearly like the common mustard. The botanic 
name is derived from its hot and biting nature; 
that of prcBcox, the specific, from its early growth 
in spring. 

The winter cress may be cultivated either as an 
annual, biennial, or perennial. It is a native of this 
country, and of other parts of Europe, and sup- 
posed to be also of America ; but this is doubtful, as 
the French sent many varieties of seed from Europe 
while in possession of the northern part of that 
country, which was wrested from them, in the 
early part of the author's life, by the immortal 
Wolfe, on the plains or heights of Abraham, near 
Quebec. The author well remembers the illumina- 
tions, rejoicings, and firing of cannon, which con- 
tinued, almost without interruption, for three days, 
oa account of the victory. 

The winter cress is a useful herb, the young 
leaves being a principal ingredient in salads, more 
or less, all the year round. Of late years it has been 



320 THE VEGETABLE CULTIVATOR. 

superseded by a superior variety, under the name 
of the Normandy cress, introduced by that respect- 
able and worthy borticulturist, Mr. C. M'Intosh, 
lately gardener to the King of Belgium at Clare- 
mont, wh<f has blended the higher parts of his pro- 
fession with that of gardening. 

In regard to the Normandy cress, the author 
can speak of its qualities^ from having been favoured 
with a specimen of the seed a few years back, which 
he found to be more mild and pleasant, and less 
acrid, than the sort hitherto cultivated. 

Culture, — The author followed, with success, 
Mr. Mcintosh's advice for the culture of this 
herb ; which consisted in sowing it in a light 
rich soil in September and October, for a winter 
and spring supply ; and in March, April, and May, 
for summer use. About half an ounce of seed 
sowq thinly in a bed at each time will be found to 
produce a good supply. 

When the seed is up, and the plants are suffi- 
ciently strong, they should be thinned out with a 
two or three-inch hoe, to give them room to spread, 
as it is only the outward leaves that are used af^er 
being carefully^ picked and washed. Though this 
variety is perfectly hardy, a temporary covering 
in severe weather will be found useful, as the leaves 
can then be gathered if wanted. As a breakfast 
herb it will be found most agreeable and whole- 
some. 



321 



PHYSICAL HERBS. 



TiiE following is a list of such plants as are gene- 
rally denominated physical herbs, and which are 
found to be more or less wanted in most families. 
The author will therefore give a short description 
of them, and the purposes for which they are jnost 
commonly used. 

They may, in most instances, be very easily cul- 
tivated; the soil for growing the greater part should 
be light and dry, but that of a poorer description 
is more suitable for some, as lavender, ro8eQiary> 
rue, sage, wormwood, and a few others; and if 
planted in a rich moist soil, much of their aromatic 
quality flies off, and they are rendered less capable 
of withstanding any severe weather. 

1. ANGELICA — Arcrangelica 

Is a native of the northern parts of Europe, and 
was first cultivated here in 1568. It is biennial, and 
propagated from its seeds, which are to be sown as 
goon as gathered in August, in a moist situation ; 
and when the plants are about six inches high, they 
must be transplanted to a similar soil, about three 
feet apart The plants will last many years^ pro- 
vided they are not allowed to run to seed. The 
flowering stems should be cut down when a few 
inches high. 



322 PHYSICAL HKRBa. 

The stalks of angelica were formerly blaiiehedy 
and eaten as celery, but they are now only used as 
a sweetmeat, when candied, by the confectioners. 
The Laplanders extol the utility of this herb for 
coughs and other disorders of the chest, but in this 
country it is seldom employed for that purpose, as 
many other simples surpass it in aromatic and car- 
minative powers. 

2. ANISE-SEED. — Anisum. 

A native of ^yp^ '^^ some other eastern 
countries. It was first cultivated here in 1551, but 
our summers are seldom warm enough to bring 
it ta7>erfection. The seeds are annually imported 
fron Malta and Spain. The plant is >»""nfi^j and 
propagated by sowing the seed in a fight dry soil 
in spring. 

Anise-seeds have a warm aromatic smdl, and a 
pleasant warm taste, accompanied with a di^ree of 
sweetness ; they have been esteemed useful in many 
complaints, but none more so than in flatulent 
cofics and obstructions of the breast, in diairiions, 
and for strengthening the tone of tlie stomadi ia 
general. 

9 

3. BALM. -i- Melissa. 

So called from the Greek word signifying kome^s 
becauM; of the abundant and exceUent honey of iti 
flowers, for which bees greatly finequent it. 

The garden balm is a native of the mountains of 
Geneva, Savoy, and Italy, and was fiist cultivated 
in this country about the year 1573. It is peroi- 



BLESSED THISTLE. 325 

nial, and may be readily propagated by parting the 
roots in spring or autumn, and planting them in 
beds of common garden mould. 

The herb, in its recent state, has a weak, roughish, 
aromatic taste, and a pleasant smell, somewhat of 
the lemon kind. Balm was formerly esteemed of 
great use in all complaints supposed to proceed 
froiJk a disordered state of the nervous system. As 
tea, however, it makes a grateful diluent drink in 
fevers, and in this way it is commonly used, either 
by itself or acidulated with lemons. 

4. BLESSED TfflSTLE. — Carduus. 

A native of the south of France, Spain, and the 
Levant. It is annual^ and propagated from seed 
sown in autumn. 

This plant obtained the name of benedwtusy or 
blessed, from its supposed exixaordinary medicinal 
virtues. It has an intensely bitter taste, and dis^ 
agreeable smell. It was formerly employed to 
assist the operation of emetics ; but the flowers of 
chamomile are now substituted for it with equal 
advantage. It was also thought, when taken in* 
temally, to be peculiarly efficacious in malignant 
fevers. In loss of appetite, where the stomach has 
been injured by irregularities, its good effects have 
been frequently experienced. It has now lost much 
of its reputation, and does not seem to be essen- 
tially different from other simple bitters. 



Y 2 



524 PHTftlOAL HBRB8. 

5. BORAGE. —BoRAGO. 

This herb is said to have originated from Aleppo.; 
but is DOW Dainralised in many parts of Europe. It 
is a hardy annual, and easily cultivated, from sowing 
the seeds in April, which come up without any 
care. 

Borage was formeriy cnltiymted in ovr gardens, 
on account of the supposed cordial Tirtnes of its 
flowers ; but they have long lost their reputation. 
In Italy its young and tender leaves are in comHKm 
use, both as a pot-herb and a salad. In France its 
flowers, with those of nastttriium; are put into salads 
as an ornament. In England it b now nearly 
neglected; but the flowers and upper leaves are 
sometimes used as an ingredient in that sunamer 
beverage composed of wine, water, lemon-juice, 
and sugar, called a cool tankard, to which they 
seem to give an additional coolness. 

6. CARAWAY. — C ARUM. 

A native of many countries in the northern parts 
of Europe ; it is also found growing, apparently 
wild, in many parts of England. It is biennial^ and 
propagated by sowing the seeds in spring. 

The seeds of this plant are well known to have 
a pleasant spicy smefl, and a warm aromatic taste ; 
and on that account they are much used as a qom- 
mon ingredient in cakes, and are encrusted in sagur 
for comfits : they are also distilled with spirituous 
liquors, to- improve their flavour. The tender leaver 
in' the spring are sometimes boiled in soups. 



CORIAVDBB. S25 

7. CHAMOMILE — Anthemis 

Grows wild in many parts of England. It is a 
hardy perennial^ and easily propagated by parting 
the roots eariy in spring.* 

Both the leaves and flowers of the chamomile 
have a strong, though not ungrateful, smell, and a 
Tery bitter nauseous taste. The flowers possess 
the stomachic and tonic qualities usually ascribed 
to simple bitters. A watery infusion of them is 
frequently used for the purpose of exciting vomit- 
ing, or for promoting the operation of emetics.' 
They are very generally used in emollient decoc- 
tions, to assuage pain, and externally as foment- 
ations. 

8. CLARY.— Salvia. 

A native of Italy and Syria, and long known in 
the English gardens, where it is a hardy bienniaL 
It is easily rabed from seed, which should be sown 
in March, in any bed or border of common earth. 

Clary was formerly much used in cookery ; but 
it is not now in much repute. A wine is sometimes 
made from the herb in flower, which has a flavour 
not unlike Frontigniac. 

a CORIANDER Coriandrum. 

A native of the southern parts of Europe and of 
China. It is a hardy annual, and propagated from 
seeds sown in autumn, in an open situation, on a 
bed of good ftresh earth. 

The dried seeds of coriander have a tolerably 

Y 3 



326 PHTSICAL HEBBS. 

grateful smell, with a moderately warm and slighi!^ 
pungent taste. They are carminative (soothing or 
softening) and stomachic ; and are commonly sold 
by the confectioners encrusted with sugar. 

10. CUMIN. — CuMiNUM. 

A native of Egypt and Syria. It is cultivated for 
sale in Sicily and Malta, whence the rest of Europe 
is supplied with the seeds. They have an aromatie, 
warm, and bitterish taste, with a strong, but not 
disagreeable, smell ; and contain a large quantity of 
essential oil, and are supposed to possess a car- 
minative and stomachic power. The Dutch are said 
to put them into their cheese, and the Germans into 
their bread. In England this herb is a hardy an- 
nual, and but little cultivated for use. 

11. DILL — Anethum 

Grows wild among the corn in Spain and Portugal 
It was first cultivated in this country in 1597 ; and 
may be prodi^ced by sowing the seeds soon after 
they are ripe, in any light soil. 

The seeds of dill have a moderately warm pun- 
gent taste, and an aromatic smell, but not of the 
most agreeable kind : they were formerly much used 
in medicine, but are now seldom employed. They 
are sometimes put into pickles to heighten the fla* 
vour, particularly of cucumbers. 

12. FENUGREEK. — FcENUM GuiscuM. 

Native o£ tlie aoxi^ o^ "^xito^^, ^ ViardY annnal ; 
and propagated £roni sfte^, ^Xvv^mvjXi^ ^^wa.'ws^ 



HO&EHOUND. 327 

tijDie in spring. The seeds of fenugreek are gene- 
rally brought to us from the northern parts of 
France and Germany. They have a strong dis- 
agreeable scent, and were formerly used in soften- 
ing fomentations ; but are now nearly exploded. 

13. FEVERFEW. — Matricaria. 

A nalive of cultivated or waste ground through- 
out Europe, springing up abundantly with us in 
neglected * gardens or court-yards. It is biennial 
and very hardy. The plants are raised from seeds, 
which should be sown about March, upon a bed of 
light earth, and afterwards transplanted to some 
distance apart 

Feverfew has long been employed for medical 
purposes ; its virtues are stomachic and tonic. It 
has been successfully given in hysteria, and is a' 
medicine of considerable activity. 

14. HOREHOUND Marrubium. 

Common in various parts of England, on waste 
ground, and among rubbish, in hot, dry, and dusty 
situations. The plant is annual, and may be raised 
by sowing the seeds in any of the spring months. 

The leaves have a moderately strong smell of 
the aromatic kind, but not agreeable : their taste is 
rery bitter, penetrating, and durable in the mouth* 
This herb was much extolled by the ancients for its 
efficacy in removing obstructions of the lungs. It 
has been chiefly employed in humoral asthmas, 
obstinate coughs, and pulmonary consumptions. Its 
xtse is also said to be bene&^la\ m ^iS^cMvyd^ ^1 *^^ 

Y 4} 



328 PHYSICAL HERBS. 

liver. Lozenges, made of the juice of this herb nftd 
sugar, are esteemed good for ci^ds. Though bote- 
hound possesses some share of medieiiial powsKrite 
virtues do not appear to be dearly ascertained, md 
it is now rarely prescribed by phy^dans. 

15. HYSSOP Htssopus. 

A native of the south of Europe. It was cul- 
tivated in this country by Gerard, in the year 1596. 
This plant being perennial, is easily propagated by 
sowing the seeds in a border of light mouldy in the 
spring season, or by slips, and cutting and parting 
the roots. 

The whole plant has a strong aromatic scents and 
the leaves and flowers are of a waim pungent taste; 
they are sometimes reduced to powder, and used 
wiUi cold salad herbs. Hyssop has the genecsl 
virtues ascribed to aromatics, and is reconmiended 
in asthmas, coughs, and other disorders of the 
lungs. 

The young leafy shoots and flower-spikes are 
usually employed, being cut as they are wanted. 
The flowernstems may be cut during the sunun^, 
and tied up in bunches for use. 

16. LAVENDER — Lavandula 

Is a very hardy plant, and a native of the south 
of Europe. It may be readily increased by plant' 
ing slips or cuttings of the young shoots in the 
spring. 

The common lavender is said to have been cul* 
tivated in England previously to the year I56& 



MARSH-MALLOW. $29 

The fragrant smell of the flower is well known, 
and to most persons is very agreeable: to the 
taste it is bitterish, warm, and somewhat pungent ; 
the leaves are weaker, and less gratefuL The 
flowers are often employed as a perfume, and me* 
dicinally as mild stimulants and corroborants, in 
several complaints, both internally and externally. 
They are also sometimes used in the form of a 
conserve. 



17. MARSH-MALLOW ALXHiEA. 

So called from its many excellent qualities. It 
grows plentifully in salt marshes, and on the banks 
of rivers and ditches in several counties in England, 
or near the coast of Cornwall, Holland, France, 
and other countries. It is perennial, and may be 
easily propagated by parting the roots in autumn. 

Marsh-mallow abounds with a glutinous juice, 
with scarcely any smell or peculiar taste. The dry 
roots, boiled in water, give out half their weight of 
gummy matter. The leaves afibrd scarcely one 
fourth, and the flowers and seeds still less. The 
mucilaginous matter is the medicinal part of the 
plant, and it is commonly employed for its emol- 
lient and demulcent qualities. AWuBa was for- 
merly in great repute in many complaints ; but b 
now only principally employed in the form of a 
syrup. 



SSO PHYSICAL HEBBS. 

18. PENNY-ROYAL MINT — Mentha 

PULEGIUM 

Is a native of watery places in various parts of 
Europe. It is easily propagated by parting the 
roots in spring. They succeed best in a strong 
moist soil, and when planted on the edges of rivu- 
lets, ponds, &c. 

Penny-royal has a warm pungent flavour, some- 
what similar to mint, but more acrid, and less 
agreeable both in taste and smell. It possesses the 
general properties of the other mints ; but is sup- 
posed to be of less efficacy as a stomachic. This 
herb is less frequently used now for medicinal pur- 
poses than formerly. 

19. PEPPERMINT. — Mentha pipebita. 

A native of watery places in various parts of Eng- 
land. This variety has a more penetrating smell 
than any of the other mints^ and a much stronger 
and warmer taste. It may be increased with facility 
by young offset plants or shoots, or by parting the 
roots in spring, or by planting cuttings during any 
of the summer months in a moist soil. Peppermint 
is much cultivated for medicinal purposes, as well 
as for distillation: its stomachic and carminative 
qualities render it useful in flatulent colics, hysteric 
affections, and retchings, in which it acts as a 
cordial. The essence of peppermint was formerly 
considered an elegant medicine ; and a cordial is 
made from this plant, which is by many people 
much admired. 



RUE. SSI 



20. ROSEMARY. --Rosmarinus. 

A native of the south of Europe, the Levant, and 
found occasionally in the Grecian islands. It was 
first introduced into England about the year 1548. 
It is propagated from the seed, or by planting slips 
or cuttings in the early spring months. 

Rosemary has a fragrant aromatic smelly and a 
warm, bitterish, pungent taste : the leaves and ten- 
der tops are the strongest ; the flowers, by them- 
selves, are much weaker, but more agreeable. 

This herb is reckoned one of the most powerful 
of those plants which stimulate and corroborate the 
nervous system; it has, therefore, been recom- 
mended in various affections, supposed to proceed 
from debilities : it is generally given in the form of 
infusion ; but is now seldom prescribed. 

21. RUE — Rut A 

Is a hardy shrub, and a native of the south of 
Europe. It is propagated in a similar manner to 
the rosemary, and requires the same cultivation. It 
is stated not to have been known in this country 
before the year 1562. 

The common rue has a strong ungrateful odour, 
and a bitter, hot, penetrating taste. The leaves are 
so acrid as to irritate and inflame the skin if they 
are much handled. Rue was much used by the 
ancients, who ascribed to it many excellent qualities. 
It is employed by some as a tea ; and also externally 
in various kinds of fomentations. A conserve, 
made by beating the fresh leaves with thrice their 



532 PHYSICAL HERBS. 

weight of sugar, is the most commodious fonn for 
using the herb in substance. It is a powerful as- 
tringent, and adapted to phlegmatic habits, or weak 
and hysterical constitutions, suffering from retarded 
or obstructive secretions. 

22. SCURVY GRASS Cochlearia. 

Common on the sea-coasts of Europe^ and not 
unfrequent in mountainous countries, far inland. 
It is biennial, and propagated from seed sown in 
the spring, or by parting the roots and planting 
them in a light moist soil. 

This plant has a warm, acrid, bitter taste ; and a 
pungent, rather unpleasant, smell when bruised. It 
has been considered as one of the most effectual of 
all the antbcorbutic plants ; and has also been found 
a useful remedy in paralytic affections, and other 
diseases that require an active stimulus. It is most 
beneficial as an antiscorbutic^ when eaten as a salad 
with water-cresses, &c 

23. TANS Y. — Tanacetum. 

A native of banks, hedges, and borders of fields, in 
most parts of the middle of Europe, and very fre- 
quent in England. It b perennial, and easily pro- 
pagated by seed, and also by parting the roots in 
spring, and planting them in any sort of light soil 
or situation. 

Tansy has a strong and aromatic smell, and a 
bitter taste. It is tonic «ciA «\.5)i\s^*aj^\iv^^ and has the 
u^ual qualities attrVbxxtedL \»\wXX«t^ <i^ ^^^^ros:«».^ 



WORMWOOD. SSS 

aromatic kind : it was formerly much used in pudf- 
dingSy but has of late years been neglected, and is 
now seldom used either as a culinary vegetable or 
medicinal herb. 

34.- TEA SAGE — Salvia 

Is a native of the south of Europe, a perennial, 
and readily increased by planting slips or cuttings 
in ApnL 

Sage has a strong fragrant smell, and a warm, 
bitterish, aromatic taste. It was in ancient timet 
considered as a remedy of general efficacy in aU 
diseases : hence the old adage. 

Cur moriatur homo, cui salvia crescit in hoito ? 

Why should a man die, while he has sage in his garden ? 

At present, however, few practitioners consider it 
as an article of much importance in medicine. 

Although frequently employed as a sudorific, it 
seems to have no advantage in this respect over 
many other plants. 

The Chinese, who are said to have experienced 
the good effect of sage, value it highly, and prefer 
it to their own tea. The Dutch have long been in 
the habit of drying sage leaves in great quantities, 
and taking them out to China, where, for every 
pound of sage they get in exchange four pounds 
of tea. 

25. WORMWOOD — Artemisia 

Grows wild about dunghills, and on dry waste 
grounds. It is a, hardy perennieX, «sA \&aK) \^^ ^^^^ 



SS4f PHYSICAL HERBS. 

pagated by slips in March or October, or raised 
from seeds sown soon after they are ripe. The 
leaves have a strong offensive smell, and a very 
bitter nauseous ta^te ; the flowers are equally bitter, 
but less nauseous. 

Wormwood is a moderately warm stomachic and 
corroborant : and for these purposes it was formerly 
in common use, but it has now given place to bit- 
ters of a less ungrateful kind. Wormwood was 
formerly much used by brewers instead of hops, to 
give the bitter taste to their malt liquors, and to 
preserve them. This plant very powerfully resists 
putrefaction, and is made a principal ingredient in 
antiseptic fomentations. 



MEMOIRS 



OF 



PHILIP MILLER, F.R.S. 

rORMERLT GARDINER TO THE COMPANY OF APOTHECARIES 
AT THEIR BOTANICAL GARDEN, CHELSEA. 



Philip Miller, the subject of this Memoir, was 
born in 1691- Various are the conjectures as to 
the spot where he was bom, and whence his family 
came, but nothing certain can be ascertained re- 
specting them. His father, who was a Scotchman 
by birth, after having lived for some time as gar- 
dener to a gentlemafi at Bromley, in Kent, com- 
menced business on his own account as a market 
gardener, near Deptford. 

After Philip left school, he assisted his father 
for a short time in his business; but being ex- 
tremely fond of flowers and plants, and anxious 
to devote himself more particularly to the culti* 
vation of his favourite pursuit, he very early com- 
menced business as a florist and grower of orna- 
mental shrubs, on a piece of ground in that part of 
St George's Fields now occupied by the Queen*s 
Bench. 

Miller was not long there before he attracted the 
attention of several gentlemen ; amongst whom, 



336 LIFE OF MILLER. 

fortunately for him, was Sir Hans Sloane. To this 
good and great man, who proved both lus friend and 
patron, the foundation of Miller's future fame 
may be considered in a great measure indebted. 
Though it appeared that Miller had a good busi- 
ness, and was much employed in planting and lay. 
ing out gardens round the metropolis, yet, from 
his many increasing engagements continusdly taking 
him from home, he was induced to give up the 
floral department, and attend entirely to the mul. 
tifarious duties required of him by his friends and 
brother gardeners. One of the principal calls made 
upon him, was to give his assistance to Ellis, who 
was then the foreman of the Chelsea garden. 

During this time, Miller acted as secretary to a 
society composed of ten or twelve of the most ex- 
perienced gardeners, nurserymen, and florists in 
and about London, and perhaps in the kingdom. 
Amongst the foremost of them was an intimate 
friend of Miller's, — Christopher Grey, of Fulham, 
near which he established an extensive nursery. 
Another particular acquaintance was a gentleman 
of the name of Mark Catisby, who richly contri- 
buted to the Fulham nursery, by the introduction 
of many handsome American forest trees and 
shrubs. 

The above society held weekly meetings, to dis- 
cuss such horticultural matters as came before them 
during the week, and to elicit, by the combination 
of their ingenuity and experience, the best methods 
of improving the various branches of their pro- 
fession. These meetings continued for some, time, 
until, a serious difference arising amongst the mem- 



LIFE OF MILLEIU SS7 

bers respecting the publishing of some portion <^ 
4heir proceedings and information, they broke up 
rather abruptly. The opponents of the publicatiim 
demanded their papers from Miller, who imme- 
diately gave them up, — - having, however, with his 
usual foresight, taken a copy of each, otherwise 
their valuable contents would most likely have beem 
lost to the world. 

About this time Ellis retired from the Chelsea 
gardens, and Miller, on the recommendation of Sir 
Hans Sloane, was immediately nominated to that 
important office, in the year VJ9Q. In this year^ 
upon condition that it should for ever, retain its 
botanic character, the final grant oJP the gardens was 
made over to the Company of Apothecaries by Sir 
Hans Sloane, — being one of the richest boons ever 
offered by generous philanthropy to the cause of 
humanity and science. 

Miller soon became distinguished in his new 
situation, by his general knowledge of plants, and 
especially by his skill in their cultivation. The latter 
was evinced in a paper which he communicated to 
the Royal Society in 1728, and which was printed in 
the thirty-fifth volume of the Philosophical Trans- 
actions, on << A Method of raising some Exotic Seeds," 
which had previously been considered almost impos- 
sible to be cultivated in England. Two years after- 
wards. Miller made known the present popular mode 
of causing bulbous plants to flower in water. 

In 1730 he published, anonymously, a thin folio, 
accompanied with twenty-one coloured plates, en- 
titled " A Catalogue of Trees, Shrubs, Plants, and 
Flowers, both Exotic and Domestic, which are pre- 

z 



338 LIFE OF MILLED 

paring for Sale in the Gardens round London." 
This publication is mentioned by Haller^ who was 
uninformed respecting its real author. 

Previously to this, in 1724, had been published^ 
in two volumes octavo, " The Gardener's and 
Florist's Dictionary," dedicated to the Worshipful 
Company of Apothecaries, by Philip Miller. This 
was followed by ^* The Gardener^s Kalendar," a 
single octavo volume, which has gone through 
numerous editions. One of these, in 1761> was 
first accompanied by " A short Introduction to a 
Knowledge of the Science of Botany,** with fine 
plates illustrative of the LinnaBan system. 

Miller was trained in the schools of Toumefort 
and of Ray, and was personally acquainted, with the 
great English naturalist, of which circumstance 
he was always very proud. Hence, «it is by no 
means surprising if he proved slow in submitting 
to the Linnaean reformation ; but having «o many 
intelligent advisers, he was at length, convinced of 
its superiority, and was no longer remiss in deriv- 
ing advantage from so rich a source. He became a 
correspondent of I^innaeus, and one of his warmest 
admirers. About this time he was chosen a mem- 
ber of the Botanical Society of Florence. Miller 
was constantly receiving rarities from his friends in 
all parts of the world, and he, in return^ favoured 
them with seeds. 

In 1731, appeared the first edition of " The Gar- 
dener's Dictionary," in folio, — a very, celebrated 
work of its kind, — which has been translated, 
copied, and abridged at various times. This valu- 
able publication ma^ V. xe^^x^^^^ \w^<ife4> as the 



LIFE OF MILLER. 339 

first bright beam of gardening issuing from the 
dark cloud of ignorance in which it had previously 
been enveloped ; but having once broken through^ it 
has continued to shine with increasing splendour 
for the last century. It may be almost said to 
have laid the foundation of all the horticultural 
taste and knowledge in Europe. It went through 
eight editions in England during the life of the 
author. The last is dated 1768. It forms a very 
thick folio volume, and follows the nomenclature 
and style of Linnaeus, the earlier volumes having 
been written on the Toumefortian principles. Lin* 
naeus justly remarked, that Miller's was a botanical 
as well as a horticultural dictionary. 

At this time an association of gardeners was 
formed, some of whom had belonged to the same 
Society as that to which JVIiller had been secretary. 
They put forth a work, entitled the " Gardener s 
Catalogue," in opposition to Miller ; but being found 
of too weighty a nature to be carried on, it was 
never completed, and the portion printed was soon 
left to moulder upon the shelf. One good effect, 
however, followed, as it urged Miller to hasten the 
publication of his first folio edition, which obtained 
a rapid sale. A second and third edition soon 
followed ; the latest with corrections, dedicated to 
Sir Hans Sloane, Bart., and the President, Council, 
and Fellows of the Royal Society. A second vo- 
lume of ^< The Gardener's Dictionary " was pub- 
lished soon after the first, but both volumes were 
finally incorporated into one, and in that state 
brought Miller into greater repute l\i<d^ V^ \»a.^ 
hitherto attained, owing principaW^ lo \vv^\^»NVcv%'a2^" 

z 2 



340 LIFE OF MILLER. 

ranged his plants according to the Linnaean system. 
It was highly extolled by the first characters, not 
only in this country, but on the Continent. It was 
translated into different languages, and obtained 
the just approbation of the celebrated Linnsus 
himself, who, when he came to England for a short 
time^ in the year 1736, honoured Miller with several 
visits. 

In 1755, Miller began to publish, in folio num- 
bers, his << Figures of Plants," adapted to his 
Dictionary, which extended to three hundred co> 
loured plates, making, with descriptions and re- 
marks, two folio volumes, which were completed in 
1760. These plates contained more botanical dis- 
sections than any other work that had appeared m 
this country. 

Miller was a Fellow of the Royal Society, and 
enriched its Transactions with several papers. The 
most numerous of these were catalogues of the 
annual collections of fifty plants, which were re- 
quired to be sent to that learned body from Chelsea 
garden, by the rules of its foundation. These col- 
lections are preserved in the British Museum, and 
are occasionally resorted to by critical inquirers in 
botany. 

The eighth and last edition of Miller's Dictionary 
IS allowed by his friends, and even his enemies (for 
he had ^nany*)^ to be a work of extraordinary 

* Miller was looked upon with jealousy by many £nglish. 
gardeners, on account of his Either being a Scotchman ; and he is- 
supposed to be one of the Northern lads sarcasticaUy mentioned' 
by Switzcr (in his woiV eiiVv\\c4"TV«^«i^««sei^ow2iw^<^^ 
as having invaded the SouWiext^ vt«s\sMM&. 



LIFE OF MILL£R. 34*1 

merit Enriched by experience, it was dedicated 
to Hugh Percy Smithson, Duke of Northumber- 
land, one of the many noblemen of the time who 
consulted Miller on various matters relative to 
planting and gardening. A copy of the book, on 
account of its great merit, is lodged in the British 
Museum. 

In the course of his residence at Chelsea, Miller 
collected, principally from the garden, an ample 
herbarium, which was purchased by Sir Joseph 
Banks. He occasionally sent many dried specimens 
to Linnaeus. 

Miller continued to attend to his duties and hi» 
favourite pursuits to an advanced age ; but he wa» 
obliged, at length, on account of his infirmities, to 
resign the charge of the garden. About two year» 
after this event, he died at Chelsea, December 18th, 
1771 9 in the eighty-first year of hb age, beloved 
by his friends, respected by his opponents, and 
honoured by his countrymen in general. 

It has been well observed, that he who makes two 
blades of grass grow, where one only has been 
produced before, is a benefactor to his species. If 
this be the case (and it can scarcely be denied), no 
one will dispute that Miller is jusidy entitled to thi» 
honourable designation ; for he has not only greatly 
increased and improved the number of plants 
previously cultivated in this country, but, by the 
combination of his talent and industry, he has- 
introduced others, the cultivation of which was* 
before considered impossible. Amidst an un* 
genial soil and a forbidding climate^ he has «asa.* 
eessfully produced the rarest an^ \iiQ&V. \^«2oio&N^ 



342 I«1F£ OF MILLER* 

exotics, and afforded to his countrymen the grati- 
fication of beholding the finest specimens of vege- 
tation which a tropical climate can produce, without 
their being themselves exposed to its scorching and 
oppressing influence. Thus has he, by the aid of 
science, changed, as it were, the very climate of his 
country, so far as his plants were concerned ; and, by 
an intimate examination into the principles of vege- 
tation, he has converted the most simple elements 
of nature into the most beautiful specimens of 
horticulture.* 

It is needless for the author to attempt to show 
the numerous advantages that have resulted from 
the labours of Miller. Medicine, botany, agricul- 
ture, and manufactures are all indebted to him ; and 
none will be disposed to deny the advantage of such 
pursuits, or refuse to them the claim of usefulness. 

Miller, no doubt, possessed talents that peculiarly 
fitted him for the study in which he was so long 
engaged. But these talents, though aided by the 
eminent advantages which he possessed, would not 
have availed him as they did, unless he had pos- 
sessed likewise that zeal for his profession which 
first urged him forward in the career of improve- 
ment, raised him to the zenith of his fame, and 
supported him even in the active pursuits of his 
declining years. 

In a work devoted to the subject of gardening, 
the author could not refuse to pass what he con- 
ceives to be a just eulogium on the memory of 
one^ whose acquaintance he had the honour to 

♦ Improvement on bnWiows "\>\«»\& S& Vvx^ ^«t^Sss^^VMlY 
iilluded to. 



LIFE OF MILLER. 343 

enjoy*, and to whom his profession is so greatly 
indebted ; for not only did Miller, by his numer. 
ous writings, render more easy the previously 
rugged path of horticulture, but afforded to others 
the ready means by which further improvement 
could be effected. With a modesty so often as- 
sociated with great talent, he laid open to his 
brother gardeners the knowledge he himself pos- 
sessed ; and the whole tenor of his labours seemed 
to say, to one and to all, << Go thou and do like* 
wise," 

* The author was introduced to Mr. Miller by Mr. Henry 
Hewett, of the Brompton nursery, (a very worthy man, and a 
particular friend of Miller's,) about two years before he retired 
from the Chelsea gardens. The author is, perhaps, the only 
individual living who was personally acquainted with that 
distinguished character. 



THE END. 



LoVDoir: 

i*rinted by A. S^onuwooDx, 

Kew-Street-Squve. 



^ 



• V 






